'" \ t 


by Phil :\lancini Staff Heporte1· 
The St udt>nt Life Council passed a resolution last night which would extend· parietals hours to begin at 11 a.m. on all days l'Xcept football Saturdays. 
Tht• \'Ott• highlighted another t•venmg of discussions of llnivprsity pariPtals policy by tht> SLC. 
The proposal. which passed by a vote of fifteen in favor. none against and four ab­sent ions. will be forwarded to the board of trustPt'S. 
Tlw passage of the resolution was quickly follmn·d by a rejection of another proposal of SBP t:d BvrnP. The recommt>ndation to t>XtPnd visitation hours from midnight to I 
a.m. on Sundays through Thursdays was soundly dt>ft>ated by the SLC. 

THE SLC last night approved a resolution that would begin parietals at 11 a.m. on Satur­days, excepting football Saturdays. A second parietal extension proposal was voted down, however (photo by Tom Lose). 
Student Govern.ment launches food co-op .melnbership drive 
b~· Kt•n Ha·adfor·d 
t'op~ Editor 

ThP Notre DamP Student Govt>rnmPnt is inviting all membt>rs of the Notre DamP community to ·join the newly t•stablishPd food co-operative. The mt•mbPrship drive will begin today and will continue until Monday, 1\lav 5. 
All mt•mbt-rs will be required to placP a two-dollar deposit ori the fivP-dollar. mPmbership fee. 1\lt>mbPrships will cost ten-dollars in thP fall. 
StPVP Shankel. co~organizpr of the co-op with Jim Wersching, stated yesterday that Student Government is currently working with the University administration to put tht> co-op fet> on student billing accounts. Shankel termed this billing option as a possibility but said a dPfinite decision should hP reacht•d sometime today. 
SBP Ed Byrne noted tht' value of such an option. stating that many studPnts who may wish to join the co-op may not havt' spare money in tht>ir pockets this late in the year. "The llnivt>rsity would charge PveryonP an optional fee and students who don't want to pay for it don't havP to." Bvrne stated. 
Shankel t'mphasi.zed the im­portance of studPnt support in the sign-up stage this wPPk. "If the sign-up fails. the co-op will fail and thP cause of the failurt' will be student apathy." Shankel statPd. 
The cost of tht> initial mPm­bership feel will be offset by savings from co-op price reduc­ticns within a fpw WPPks. Shankel statt>d. Ht• nott>d that thP savings at first will be at least 10 to 15 pPrcmt and will probably improvt> wht•n the volume of saiPs in­lTt•ases. 
"Volumt> buying is important in 

passing on a better deal to the 
l'onsunwrs." Shankel observed. 
"Tht> morp participation Wt' get 
from studt>nts. the more we will be 
abiP to pass on to them in savings." 
Plans for thP co-op include three 

basic product types: food. clothing 
and rt>cords. 
ShankPI pointed out that the low 

food prices will benPfit the on­
eampus studPnt as wrll as the off­
eampus student. He provided a list 
of lt>ntativp food prices which 
includes snack foods as WPil as 
main grocpry items. 
''Clothing and records will be two commodities that will be of­fert>d by tht> co-op for those ~-;tudents not nPcessarily interested in purchasing food." Shankel stated. liP t•xplainPd that the co-op will he dt>aling with a manufac­lurt>r in Chicago who will provide studt•nts with a 30 percPnt discount 
on all availablP clothing. 
Tht> IatPst styles for which you 

pay $14. you will be able to pur­
t·hasP in tht> co-op for $8-$10," 
Shankel said. 
Ih·cord albums will be sold at a 

20 1wrcent discount. Shankel 
statPd. Popular albums which tht> co-op for $4.40. he noted. 
In order for thP co-op to bPgin to nffpr thPse reduced prices in St>ptember. thP initial investment . money, in thP form of membership ft't•s. must bP collPcted now. Shankel said.. 
"Wt• nt>Pd about two thousand nwmherships right now." Shankel noted. adding that this includes faculty. staff mt>mbers and credii union m<•mbers as well as students. 
Byrne statPd. "The purpose of thP mt•mbership drivP is to get the t·o-op off the ground and to prove that therP is studPnt interest in the l'O-op. 
"Once wt• do that. oncP we get tht• initial investmPnt. wt• can go to work and get thP co-op going.!' Byrne addt•d. 
HPgistration for the co-op will bt> ht>ld in lht• Huddle and thP dining halls at Notre Damt• and St. 1\lary's. Also. rt>gistration will always ht• possiblt> at tht> student govt•rnmt•nt offices and at thP desk of the en•dil union. 
I'Prsons intt>rested in working on tht> ro-op should contact Shankel at :!!1!1-:!176 or Wt>rsehing at !1040 or at 

normally sell for $5.20 will sell at Studt>nt c;overnment at 766!1. 
Co-op sign-up schedule 

Ttlt'sday. April 29:  tl-2 p.m.  lluddlt·  
Wl'dnt•sday. April :!0:  11·2 p.m.  lluddlt•  
Luneh. dinnN  All dining halls  
Thursday. l\lay 1:  11·2 p.m  lluddll'  
l.uneh. dinnt>r  :\II dining halls  
Friday. !\lay 2:  11-2 p.m.  lluddlt·  
l.uneh  !\ D. dining halls  
I>mm·r  Sl\11 · dining hall  
l\londay. !\lay 5:  11·2 p.m.  lluddlt•  
l.un<·h  :\1> dining hall  

The rejection of Byrne's second proposal brought angry commt>nts from SLC student membt>r Brian Hegarty. Ht>garty com­plained. "I think it's insulting and pitiful that the SLC did not consider the opinion of 88 percent of the students as a sufficient reason for change." 
The adoption of Byrne's first proposed alteration followed a lengthy discussion on the rationale for setting visitation limits. Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant provost, suggested the ''need for rest, study, quiet, and privacy" as a eritt>rion for necessary limits. 
Several members arguPd about whether tht>rP is a d1rect correlation between parietal hours. noise in the halls and the time that studPnts gPnerally go to sleep. 
l'roft>ssor Waller Nicgorski suggested that parietals be "gently formative of student lifestyles." 
ByrnP dPfendPd his proposal as well­substantiatE-d and added. "ThP new hours arP thP ones that the students will t>nforce." lit> citt>d studt>nt displeasure with current hours as a cause ·or their lack of en­forcement. 
The mt•eting had opened with a discussion of 1he concept of a need for flexibility in the dt>signation of parietals hours. Dr. Robert Ackerman reportt>d that only ninett>en of the qut>stionnairPs sent to hall staff mt>mbers about tht> nt>ed for flt>xibility in hours were rt>turnt>d. Of the ninett>en returnt>d surveys. sixtet>n favort>d a grt>att>r flexibility while only thret> oppost>d such a policy, Ackerman stated. 
In discu~sing the method for codify~ng such a pohcy In a workable manner wh1ch would not put undue pressurt> on the hall n•ctor. Byrne proposed that students be 
rt•prt>sentt>d on. a committee of rectors ·and administrators in devising such a code. The proposal rPct>ived a favorable vote of the council.The flexibility proposal was sent to thP Board of Trustees for their con­sideration. 
The SLC also discussed a pproposal by Bvrne and Judicial C'o-ilrdinator John L~nsbPrg which would Pxpand the role of thP hall judicial boards in tht> t>nforcement of parietal hours. 
Tht> council decided that the Pstablish­mt>nt of the principle that parietal violations art> a matter of Pach individual hall's eonct>rn would catalyze the healthy operation of the hall judicial system. 
Sr. JonPs suggt>sted. "The new system would make them thall judicial boards) bPtlt•r known and skilled and a working unit." 
Frank Flanagan added, "It is an idealistic notion that studt>nts would report violations of other students." The recom­nwndation was sent to the Board of Trustees as an addendum to the SLC Parietals llt>port. 
In other SLC business. Dt>an of Students John l\1acheca received the council's ap­proval to handiP all disciplinary problems this summt•r. Appeals on Macheca's decisions will be made to University !'resident l<'r. Theodore HPsburgh. 
Tht> SLC also approved the recom­nwndation of ByrnP that SBVP Tom Fit­gt>rald and Lonsbt>rg be granted speaking priviligt>s at council meetings. 
Nit·gorski submitted his letter of rt•signation from thP council due to the fact that hP will be on leave of absence during the fall semt'ster next year. 
Byrnt' was eiPctPd acting chairman of the SIX sincP !<'lanagan's tPrm Pxpired last night. 
,-----------------------------------~ 
Co-op price comparisons 
f'rcKIIIt'l  
l·:t·krit'h Bologna Eckrich Franks H;u·oJJ :\lilk. \\holt• :\1 ilk. :! fit'I' t•t•nt :\lar~-:;u·int•  I lb. 1 lb. I lb 1 gallon 1 gallon I lb.  
l'ntalo ('hips l'ntaln ( 'hi)IS Chill~ 11.11.1). l.t•ltnn· l'ntalcw~ ( ·an·ut~ ~)Iii Ill ln~tant :\Ia"'"'" llunM·  7 nz. t2 liZ. -l 1c llZ. I hPad Ill lh. I lb. 12 Ill.. ti liZ.  
l't•;" (·urn ( 'nt· a-( ula Fru/1'11 0 ..1.  Hi uz. Hi oz. ll lti uz. (j OZ.  


Hrtailing  Estimatrd  Eslimatrd  
Price  Price  Sa\·ings  
1.45  1.111  .:15  
1.19  .95  .24  
1.511  1.:15  .15  
1.5tl  l.:ltl  .211  
1.45  1.25  
.75  .ti:l  Ill  
.fi5  ttl  
.55  .-4li  .1~1  
.!19  .77  t:!  
.49  .41  ll!l  
.55  t:l  
1.20  Ill  _;;ll  
:10  .ttl  
.!Ill  
.:10  .:!5  
.:1:1  :Ill  .11:1  
.:14  :Ill  .114  
1.!19  l.(i()  19  
25  .21  

This list rpflpcts an averagp of 15 percPnt in savings when goods an• purehast•d at thP co-ilp. This mPans that when a students spmds $5 m a local grocPry store. it would be t>quivalent to $4.25 spt>nt in the cooperalive. ThE' savmgs will not necessarily remain static. because as volume incrPases occur. the savings will in­t'fl'ast• also. 
a 
/ 
the observer 
warld briefs 
SAIGON (UPI) -Warplanes \ bombed Saigon's airport for the first time in the war Monday, and Communist forces followed ; up the raid with a rocket attack 1 on the base early Tuesday in defiance of the new President Duong Van Minh's call tor 
peace. 
WASHINGTON (UPI) ­Former CIA Director Richarrd Helms Monday bitterly denounced a newsman for reporting charges that the CIA carried out the assasination of foreign leaders. 
WASHINGTON !UPI) ­President Ford Monday told 3000 cheering members of the 
U.S. Chamber of Commerce that he opposed congressional proposals for a consumer protection agency and he wanted repeal of fair trade laws which set minimum retail prices tor certain products. 
WASHINGTON !UPI) ­Jordan's King Hussein safely pioloted a Boeing 707 jet down to a landing at Andrews Air Force Base Monday with a smoking engine after a hydraulic line ruptured and spilled fluid on the engine. 
DAMASCUS (UPil -A Syrain government spokesman charged Monday that Iraq has executed 35 persons in a new cracksown on political dissidents. He said more arrests and executions would be hkely to follow. 
an campus today 
3 p.m. -meeting, academic 
counciL rm. 100-104 cce; 
4 p.m. colloquim, 
"habituation and later con. 
ceptual performance in in. 
fancy," 119 haggar hall; 
4 p.m. -lecture, "modernism 
as a problem," lib. aud.; 
4:30p.m.-seminar, "genetic 
regulation of bar mutant in 
drosophila," gal. life aud.; 
7:30 
p.m. -meeting, tran. scendental meditation, lib. lounge; 

7:30 
p.m. -meeting, mock dem. nat'l comm.. Iafortune ballroom; 


8:00 
p.m. -concert, alice cooper, $7, $6, $5, ace; 

8:00 
p.m. -lecture, "from pearl harbor to the cold war in asi," arch. aud.; 8 & 10:00 p.m. film, "brewster mccloud,'' $1, eng. aud.; 


10:00 p.m. -radio, "frosh focuspoint" with dan devine, wsnd·am (6400). 

the accountancy departments of 
DePaul University 
and 
University of Illinois 
at Chicago Circle 
offer a joint intensified 
CPA REVIEW 
for the November Exam 
Days at Circle Campus Evenings at DePaul University 
Classes conducted by distinguished faculty from both institutions and master practitioners 
REGISTER NOW 
Review starts June 23 
and ends November 1 
Phone or Write 
CPA REVIEW DePaul University 
25 E. Jackson Boulevard Chicago, IL 60604 Phone: (312)321-7820 
' 
. ­
·.~"~, ~-• c ,:_.~~,·--·~~·:"·~:'. • 
a
u 
Tuesday, April 29, 1975 
Four posts confirmed 

Seven halls to receive new rectors 
h~· Marianne Morgan Starr Heportt"r 
St•ven of the 21 residence halls on eampus will have new rectors next vear. ThPse halls are Lewis, Stanford. Walsh. Grace, Morrissey. Sorin and Dillon Halls. 
Allhough no official an­nouncemt•nt has been made yet, a high administrative official has eonfirmt>d the appointment of four of the seven new rectors. 
According to this official. Fr. Tom Stella will replace Fr. Hiehard Zang as rector of Sorin. Sr. Susan Hosenbach will replace .Joanm• Szafran as rPctress in Walsh. Bro. Victor Grezeskowiak will n·place Fr. John Lahey in Stanford and Fr. Dan Janke will n•placl' Fr. David Schlaver in Dillon. 
Stt'lla has st>rved at Notre Dame as dirE-Ctor of. volunteer services and assistapt "r~tor of Dillon Hall. Hosenbach is· presently assistant rectress in Brel:'n-Phillips Hall. 

· <;rezeskowiak is \he former vice­principal of Holy Cross High School in Illinois. J.anke has served as aSl;istant rector in Alumni and Flanner. Halls. · 
··No ·announcement has been made regarding the appointments in Lewi.s. · .Grace or Morrissey. HoYit'v-er. t·he official also con­
firmed fhat Sr. Karen Paul. 
assistani. rec;tres$  in  Badin. will  
serve  as  assistant  rectress  In  
Lt•wis next vl'.ar.  

lksides ·:the vacated rector positions. ·nine other vacancies t'xist on· next vear·s hall staffs. 
Al.-cording. to· Fr. Terry Lally. assistant·· .vice"president for StUdPnt affairs, fhP number Of npPnings wpre eonsi0•· ··ly higher than the. normal :!1' _.t:ent tur-. 
nover rate. Tht:> majority of" th.e departing 
Lally's office has been con­staff members, , h9wever. have ducting interviews since January acc~:>ptPd teaching positions in OUt­for 11w open positions. The of-stateschools..Helen ·Gallagher, npPninl'\s had bt:>en advertised in r~ctress . of aadin, will teach the t"hrunide of llight•r Education . theoiogy at Trinity College in 
and applicants from both inside and outside the University have been intt:>rviewPd. 
Lally statt•d that the staff nwmbers have done a good job this vear and commended them ·on iheir pfforts. He salso stated his apppreciation for Sr. Karen Paul, Fr. \\'iliiam Toohey, Sr. Jean Lenz, Sr. John 1\liriam Jones and Sr. Barbara Counts for. their aid in the sele~;tion process of hall staff nwmbt>rs and new resident assistants. 
SP\'t>ral of the retiring staff nwmbers will rPmain at Notre Daml'. l<'r. Thomas Chambers. prPst;ntly rector of 1\lori-issey. will rPmain to finish work on his dissPrtation. Fr. Thomas McNally of (;ral"l' IU1ll will remain to serve as chaplain in Grace. 
ERRATUM 

In an article in yesterday's Ohst"l"\'t"r · . the blood donor program sponsored .by the Ladies 
·of Notre Dame asked for students to volunteer .for · the • drive. However, this particular program nePds faculty members and their wives as donors. rather than 
students.··· · · · · . Aspokeswom;;~n for the Lat:;lies of · Notre Dame explained that this . programis not associated with the student blood donO:r drive and is 
Washington D.C. Br. William Collins ofDillon Hall will. accept a teaching position at Stonehill College in Massachusetts. · 
.Also, .Joseph Gower of St. Ed­ward's Hall hasaccepted a faculty position atSt: Joseph's College, l''r. Hoberi Krieg will teach.at King's Collegt> and Joah.ne Szafran will move.· to ·George Washington l'niversity. 
Fr. Sehlaver and Fr. Lahey have announced plans to continue thPirt•ducations. Ann Williams will practice law in Chicago and Ed­ward D<iv.ey will practice law in Spain. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by ·the stual!hts of the UniVersity of Notre Dame .nd St. Milry's College. Subscriptions ·may be purchased tor ·s9 per se-r stt!r (S16 per year) from The 
01: .•rver Box· Q, Notre Dame Indiana 46556. Second clas~ postage. paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556: . 
SWEENEY'S. SHAMROCK SHIRTS 
(STILL HAVE A FEW LEFT) 
"LAST ORDER 

riot trying to int¢rfere wlth that · .. program. · · · · ~-.-'---:--..__---~-'-----.!. 
P·LAYLAND GOLF QNTER 
9 HC>LE • PJ>,R 3 GOLF CO\)RSJ; Dr~ving Range lB.Ho~e ..Wniofure 
LOCATED US 33 AT IRONWOOD 
DESPITE THE rain and cold weather a surprisingly. large number of cyclists turned out for last Sunday's bike marathon (photo by Chris Smith). 

COME·. RAIN OR SHitiE TO TOWN &COON fill FOR YOUR FAVORITE 



WINES-LIQUORS 
,~: Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM 
~-~~ Canadian LTD 
r~ _;-:I BLEND • • • • . • • 5th 
Usher's Green Stripe 
__,___ SCOTCH. • • • • • 5th 
' Early Times 
BOURBON • • • • 5th 
Canada Dry 
vo~s: ", .__ ..._
5th 

Boston House 
GIN .. 
5th 
410 
515 539 
395 
407 
Jose Cuervo 



TEQUILA • • . • • 5th 
American 5 Star 


BRANDY • . • • • sth 
Ron Querida

RUM _••• ___ •• 5th 
Galliano Italian 


LIQUEUR •.• 12-oz. 
625 
488 439 
548 
Arak Rzzouk 

LIQUEUR ••• 20-0Z. 7 
FREE DELIVERY 
= I 
) ·~ -;.~·" •::_ ..~·-'. ~-'. ;~, ~ t _. '· 
,-.·~rilf'•....:,.._·,•.-.._ .........•.r..-·.~.• ...~"'~"''· •.. '.. _....., ...,..• 
Tuesday, April 29. 1975 3 1
: the observer 
Professor Link named Law Dean 

Prof. David T. Link, associate year's leave. "In Prof. Link, we dean of the University of Notre believe we have the combination of Dame's Law School since 1972, continuity and innovation so im­has been named to its deanship, it portant to the exercise of has been announced by Rev. leadership in our Law School," Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., commented Father Hesburgh. president of the University. Link, a specialist in law and 
Link, 38, succeeds Dean Thomas technology, received a B.S. in 
L. Shaffer who is completing his commerce from Notre Dame in 
fourth year as head of the Law 1958 magna cum laude and a J.D. School and who earlier had an­from Notre Dame law School in nounced his intention to return to 1961. After serving five years as a teaching in the school after a trial attorney in the Office of Chief 
World record sought as B-ball marathon goes on 
by Frt>d Ht>rbst Starr Ht>portt>r 

The Muscular Dystrophy 
Basketball Marathon sponsored 
jointly by the Circle K Club and the 
Notre Dame Social Commission is 
continuing play this week in Stepan 
Center on rainy days and behind~ 
the Bookstore on other days. 
The yellow team trailed the 
green team by a score of 5196 to 
'5032 as the marathon reached the 
100 hour mark at 5 p.m. Sunday. 
As of 3 p.m. Sunday, 521 people had 
participated. 
Organized by Tom Schnellen­berger. president of the Circle K Club and Kevin Saddler. assistant social comm1sswner. the marathon is designed to break the world record of 204 hours. This should occur at 1 a.m. Friday. 
Saddler noted that several jerseys and basketballs havebeen stolen. He stressed the need for their return, since the marathon will be forced to pay for any missing equipment. 
Saddlt>r mentioned that should the t>quipment be returned, no questions will be asked. 
Currently, the only sources ofincomt> for the marathon are the donations of those watching the game. However. section leaders will soon begin a door to door drive in the various halls seeking donations. 
Saddler stated his hopes that 
students will ''donate whatever 
they can to make it really wor­
thwhile and show that they made 
an t>ffort." 
It is hoped that a number oflocal 
mt>rchants will donate to the 
marathon onan hourly basisbut as 
of yet no arrangements have been 
made. Saddler noted. 
Social Commissioner Charles 
Moron said, "We have been ex­
tremt>ly · impressed w1tb the 
numbers of students who have 
played in the B~sketball 
Marathon. The response ha~ been 
tremendous with over 500stuqents 
involved.· 
"The only area lacking is in 
donations for Muscular Dystrophy. 
Anyone ·wishing to niak~ ·con~ ltibutions .or go out arid collect contributions, should come up; to the Student Government. offices: · It's a very worthy charity' and we're glad to be able to • help 
them." Moron added. 
Schnellenberger stressed the need for players, especially bet­ween the hours of 7 am andl2 pm. Anyone interested can sign up by calling either 1841 or 7660. 
As participant Tony Masino said, "It was a lot of fun playing basketball to help other people out. Hesides that, there's a chance 
we'll break a world record." 


Completion of Provost evaluation expected soon 
by MariannP Schulte Starr Heporter 

The Professor Evaluation of the 
Provost is almost finished, ac­
cording to Professor James T. 
Cushing, chairman of the Faculty 
Senate , which is conducting the 
evaluation, the first of its type here 
at Notre Dame. 
The results of the evaluation will 
be presented to the Academic 
Policy Review Committee and the 
Board of Trustees for review upon 
completion. A vote will then be 
taken to renew or terminate the 
contract Fr. James T. Burt, 
chaell, the provost of the univer­
sity. 
"All650 members of the Faculty 
SE>nate were invited to participate 
in the !'valuation," Cushing ex­
plained yesterday. "Every 
member was sent an evaluation 
FRESHMAN FOCUSPOINT 
sponsored by 

WSNDAM Freshman Advisory Council presents 

NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
with COACH DAN DEVINE call up and talk to him live on the air 


TONIGHT 
1 OPM-11 PM 
on 

WSND 64 

Counsel, Internal Revenue Ser­
vice, Washington, D.C., Link 
joined the Chicago law firm of 
Winston, Strawn, Smith & Pat­
terson where he handled both 
general corporate law and cor­
porate taxation, becoming a 
partner in 1969. His earlier IRS 
work on computer applications in 
law, which earned him the 
"Younger Federal Lawyer" award 
in 1964, continued in private 
practice as he was given 
responsibility for data processing 
in the Chicago firm. He joined the 
Notre Dame law faculty in 1970. 
Appointed to newly created 
post of associate dean at Notre 
Dame in .January. 1972, Link 
assumed responsibility for ad­
ministration of sponsored 
programs in the Law School, in­
cluding a joint Law-School­
Engineering project on computer 
Yearbook pickup procedure given 
h.Y Bob Hadziewicz Staff Ht'portt"t 
The llomp 1!175 yearbooks have arrived on campus· and will be distributed to the undergraduate student body Tuesday and Wed­nesday. April 29-30; according to Steve Simpson, business managerof the.lh.1111i:... · · 
Graduate and law students· are "not entitled .to books, so thal only undergrads should pick them up at this time," Simpson said. 
Times for yearbook distribution will be 12:30 -4:45 pm, both Tuesday and Wednesday: Simpson explained tht" procedure students must follow in picking up .their year. . . . 
"First, all studentsmustcome up to the first floor of LaFortune and pick up nomt' IBM cards." Simp­son .said. 
"I .D.'s must be presented at this time in order to be given a card. ThE'n the students take the com­puter cards to the .trailer parked between the Huddle and the Old Fieldhouse. Books will be distributed from there," Simpson t>Xplained. 
Simpson cautioned that students should be sute they are in the correct line for picking up their computer cards in LaFortune. The lines will. be divided alphabetically. and "if you're in the wrong line, there's nothing we can do except send you to the back of the correct line," the nome business manager noted. 
Yt"arbooks must be picked up on these two days oi' there will be no guarantee that students will be able to get. them this spring. 
I I I 

applications in the area of the Association's standing committee 
adminstration of justice. He is past on law and technology, chairman 
chairman of the American Bar of the Committee on !{(•search and 
Continuing Legal Education of the ABA's Section on Taxation, and vice-chairman of the governing council of the ABA Section on Law Office Economics and Management. 
Link was recently appointed by Indiana's Governor Otis BowPn to a newly created commission on individual privacy and was chosen "Teacher of the Year" by !his year's graduating class of the Law School. His wife, the former Barbara Winterhalter, will be graduated summa cum laude in May from Notre Dame in sociology and anthropology. 
His appointment as the eighth dean of Notre Dame's Law School. the oldest under Catholic auspices 
Prof. David T. Link in the nation, is effecUve June 1. 
Connecticut Baggage Truck 
for Information 

call Mike -8766 or George 8772 

( C"r our rhe dollar. bnng rr w••h you when you 1 <Orne rn tor your hotr ~rylrnq. and we N tolie 
HERE'S ADOLLAR 

FOR YOUR HEAD. S I off your brll Nor only 
do you ~ove o bud, bur the grrl~ ore gornq to "'ooe you look g<eo r 
_F_O_R_A_P_P_0--1N_T_M__E_N_T_C_A_l_l ~j~~~~ ~~r ~~:~'o :~~'": 
255·8600 ~ 01 
I. 
CHR master 
stylists 

HAIR CARE FOR MEN 

TOWN & COUNTRY MINI-MAll I MISHAWAKA, INO. 46544 






------=---si 
I

''THE PAN'' 
I 
I

DEEP DISH PIZZA I 
I for the I I 
I

N.D. & S.M.C. COMMUNIJY I 
I 
I
IT'S AS CLOSE 
I 
I

AS YOUR PHONE 
I 

~ 277-1221 or 277-1222 I I 
I I 
I

FREE DELIVERY I I 
I FROM NOW UNTIL I 
I

I' FINALS, YOU'Ll BE on or off-campus I I
ISTUDYING. TAKE -also quick pickup service I
A BREAK FOR I 
DEEP DISH PIZZA I I 
I 

--.!!!.2!.~;.~!'!.~2!~~;.;!.~.!~2~.!~9!-!~N.!>~~~~--J 
, a a 
the observer Tuesday, April 29, 1975

4 
Communist onslaught continued 
SAIGON (UPI) -Warplanes bombed Saigon's airport for the first time in the war and Communist ground troops bat­tled to within three miles of Saigon Monday, ignoring new President Duong Van Minh's call for peace. 
It was a day of confusion and panic in which the government position appeared to crumble at a quickening pace. 
Military sources said South Vietnam's highest ranking mili­tary officer, Joint Chief of Staff Chairman Gen. Cao Van Vien, and an unspecified number of other senior officers joined the exodus of Vietnamese fleeing the country in the face of the Communist onslaught. 
Shooting erupted near the t ·.S. embassy and the presiden­tial palace. touching off panic and confused reports that the Communists had invaded Sai­gon itself or that a coup was underway to overthrow Minh. 
Minutes after Minh was sworn in as the nation's third president in a week and called for a cease~fire, four American­built A37 jet fighter-bombers diving out of towering thunder-
Explanation 
heads bombed Saigon's Tan Son Nhut air base on two runs ­and added a new dimension to the beleaguered capital's dan­gers. 
Government pilots in F5 Freedom Fighter chase planes said the A37s fled to a field at Communist-held Phan Rang, 165 miles northeast of Saigon. 
The raid destroyed 11 parked airplanes and forced a five-hour suspension of the massive U.S. airlift taking thousands of Vietnamese to refugee points dotted across the Pacific. 
In Washington, a Pentagon spokesman said it was not known who flew the planes that attacked the airport. The spokesman confirmed that "a couple of dozens" A37s were captured by advancing North Vietnamese troops, but it was not known how many were left 
the North Vietnamese were 
working with the A37s, includ­ing taxiing them up and down the runway at Danang.
The Communists had Saigon 
all but surrounded with an 
estimated 150,000 men, tanks, 
of dismissal 
refused by administrators 
by Kathy Mills 
Staff Reporter 
In the wake of rxpressions of 

apparent student discontent over the recent decision not to renew the contract of Mr. Fred Pechek, ND physical education instructor and wrestlingcoach, administrators and physical education department mPmbers involved in the decision have declined comment on the 
situation. 
Dennis Stark, Noel O'Sullivan, 
both physical education in­
structors, and Thomas Fallon. 
head of the physical education 
department, refused to comment 
on the case. Fallon added, "It's 
out of our hands now." 
These three men, who comprise 
the Committee on Appointments 
and Promotions in the physical 
{'ducation department, evaluated 
Pechek and recommended that his 
contract not be renewed for next 
year. 
Dean of the Freshman Year of 
Studies Of: Emil Hofman, Provost 
Fr. Jame~ Burtchaell, and Fr. 
Ferdinand Brown were the ad­
ministrators who reviewed and 
approved the committee's 
recommendations. Burtchaell 
refused to make a statement on 
the case . while Brown could not 
be reached for comment. 
"I have no comment. The 
procedure established in the 
Faculty Manual was followed. The 
case is now closed," stated Hof­
man. 
Dave Boyer, ND wrestler who 
started the petition to reinstate 
Pechek, reported that he tried to 
talk to Fallon on Friday about the 
decision. but "he could not get in to 
see him." 
Dear Students, 
Pechek reiterated that he has 
been given no "definite reasons" 
for the non-renewal of his contract. 
Hr added that he thought he was judged "around the Rock and at meetings," rather than during his classes. 
Pechek stated that only one member of the Committee on Appointments and Promotions had observed his performance in classes. 
''O'Sullivan is the only one who has seen me teach, and I know of only one time he has done so," he declared. "The other two have nevrr seen me teach." 
Pt>chek said that he thought it "interesting" that he received a $1500 raisr 'last year. "That was one of the highest raises in· the University," he reported. 
According to Pechek, Fallon has received some messages and notes on the decision, but "no one has said anything to me yet." 
Pechek concluded that he is gratrful for all the support he has been given since the decision, especially that shown by the students. 
STEWART MCGUIRE SHOES 
With the Spring Step cushion 
DAD & FAMILY 503 N. Blaine Ave. So. Bend 234-4469 
Wf.' would like to thank the almost 400 people that turned out for the 2nd Corby·Library picnic. Aside from the weather, we hope everyone had a good time. We would also like to apologize to those people who bought tickets, but did not brave the weather. We were forced to have the picnic regardless of weather because we had $600 worth of prepared food that would hav~ spoiled if the picnic was postponed. We hope next year Mother Nature will look favorably on the 3rd annual Corby-Library picnic. 
Rick Kanser & Joe Mell 

artillery and rockets. They encircled onetime government strongholds at Binh Hoa and Long Binh 14 miles to the northeast, and launched a commando raid against the Newport dock area three miles north of the capital. 
The tightening noose around the capital quickened plans by foreigners, including Ameri­cans, to close or trim down official operations. The U.S. Defense Attache Office was to shut Tuesday, meaning an end soon to the evacuation flights it has been running. 
Political sources said the new 
president likely would ask the 
United States to remove most if 
not all the 500 official Ameri­
cans remaining in Vietnam -a 
move to meet Communist 
demands for an end to the U.S. 
presence. 
' closed their embassies Monday. Great Britain, Australia, Cana­da and the Netherlands shut down their missions last week. Minh's initial appeal to the Communists for a cease-fire <"Let us sit together and negotiate and work out a solution") and to his own people <"be courageous and stay here and accept the fate of God"> met little success. A North Vietnamese spokes­man in Paris said Minh's call for peace did not meet Communist conditions for a cease-fire, and a Viet Cong spokesman in Saigon said Minh's remarks were "not in keeping" with Viet Cong demands. Military sources said Chief of Staff Chairman Vien was given permission by Minh to leave the country, and that the 

senior officers aboard his personal C47 decorated with the four stars symbolizing his rank. An estimated 500 penniless 
and  frightened  civilians,  
spurred  on  by  a  Communist  
command  attack  near  the  
Newport  dock  area  three  miles  

north of Saigon, broke into the 
U.S. commissary and stripped the supermarket-like building of everything from beer to bolog­na. 
The 500 looters were driven off by Vietnamese military police firing above their heads. 
Shooting broke out in the downtown area after Minh's acceptance speech. UPI Corre­
·spondent Leon Daniel said it touched off panic -residents diving to the ground and huddling in doorways, drivers abandoning their automobiles, motorcycles and bicycles to 
race for cover.
behind in working order. Malaysia and the Philippines general departed with other 
He said there were reports r-----------~--.;;:...___...;.____~...;;.;,;,;.;.~-----------­
Ready to Commence Your Search for Quality Employment?
d ,
In to ay s employment market, how well are you prepared to 
learn of, and then to obtain, the position best for your career development? "The Search for Quality Employment" shares with you the knowledge, gained through years of experience, 
of a succ~s.s!ul employment recruiter. Learn, step by step, how you can 1n1t1ate, conduct, and successfully complete your own . search for quality employment. You can prove to yourself that employers do not hire the best qualified applicant --they hire the 
"sizzle'", not the steak! Discover how to develop your own "sizzle" in the pages of '~The Search for Quality Employment". For your copy, send $10.00 ($9.25, plus $.75 postage and handling) cash, 
check or money order to: 
Career Rese~rch Associates, 200 S. Hanley, Suite 212, Clayton, Missouri 63105. If not satisfied, return within 10 days for refund of purchase price. 

Tuesday, April 29, 1975 
the observer 
5 


In abortion-manslaughter 
Defense attorneys ask for verdict change 
tion on grounds the state failed either to claim or to prove the fetus was a human victim. 
In a brief outlining oral argumt>nts scheduled to be heard Wednesday, Edelin's attornies said it was "the irony of the ease" that the testimony of the state's star witness supported the defense claim that no erime occurred because no human victim ever existed. 
On Feb. 15 Edelin was eonvicted of manslaughter in 
BOSTON WPil -Defense the death of a fetus during an all appeals are resolved. trial in Boston impossible 
lhe judg~?'s charge to the juryattorneys Monday asked the October 1973 abortion per­I<:delin. a former chief resi­. though many jurors said in which he said "a fetus is not
trial judge to overturn Dr. formPd at the request of an dent obstetrician at Boston City afterward they were not aware a person and not the subject ofKPnneth C. Edelin's landmark unmarried 17-year-old woman. Hospital. said racial and that Edelin was black. 
an .!ndictment for manslaught­
abortion-manslaughter convic­Trial testimony showed the religious prejudice made a fair The defense brief Quotes from er. 
woman to have been between five and seven months preg­nant. 

Rape.seduction issue
The verdict from the all­white. predminently Roman Catholic jury sent shock waves through the medical com­

argued in trial case 
munity, moving some hospitals to modify their policy on dt>ctive abortions. 
Judge James P. McGuire sentenced the 36-year-{)ld black doctor to one year on probation and stayed the sentence until 

SMC Social Commissioner, :~:;,~~~tt~ 
a posh West Side 
Ddense .attorneys argued in the bri~?f that the state's only eyewitness. Dr. Enrique Ji­minl:'z-Jimeno. "testified for the 
prosecution  that  the  baby  died  
inside the uterus.  
"It  is  the  irony  of  this  case  

that in retrospect this testimo­ny mad~? him <Jiminez-Jimeno > a star witn~?ss for the defense -an eyewitness who could establish that the subject was not born alivl:' outside the mother." 
The attorneys sai'd they were ''mislead :nto attacking and discrt>diting his testimony." 
House Painting 
DOES YOUR HOME NEED PAINTING? EXPERIENCED PAINTERS <TWO N.D. GRADUATES) WILL PAINT INTERIOR­EXTERIOR 
VERY REASONABLE!! 
CALL 234-1889 For Free 
Estimate 


ATTENTION ALL RADUATIN 
STUDENTS 
Measurements 
will be taken 
for 

CAPS and GOWNS 
EVERY DAY 
Between NOW and 
MAY2 
This is the Definite Deadline 9:00-4:00 
at the 
NOTRE 
DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
NEW YORK WPI> ~ The line between rape and seduction 
was  at  issue  Monday  in  the  
trial  of  cable-TV  personality  
1\larlin  Evans.  accused  of  

raping a 21-year-{)ld coed he allegedly picked up and sweet-
others appointed to posts 
by Ml"gan Wolff Staff Reporter 

The SMC Social Commission has appointed Molly McKenna to the office of Sodal ( 'ommisionl'r for the coming school year. Other officers include: Marianne Murphy, Secretary-Treasurer; Cecilia Walsh. Publicity Officer, Megan Lewis and Terri Schneider, Special Events; and Lisa Keiser with assistantCamille Arrieh, Movies. 
New hall representatives were also appointed by the Commission. Ann Baggiano will represent Holy Cross. and Susan Brandy and Mary Klassen will be LeMan's reps. Representative positions are still open for McCandless and Hegina Hall, and also for off­campus. Anyone interested in these poistions should contact Molly McKenna. 
Commenting on the aims of the Social Commission for next year, the new Social· Commissioner stated, "The Social Commission has Pstablished itself as a serve to Saint Mary's and we hope to continue that service, stressing more and better activities. We plan on keeping many of this year's · activities, such as the Oktoberfest, while expanding themfor next year. We would like to get a good group of kids together to help formualte plans and ideas." 
Any student with suggestions or who would be interested in helping out is encouraged to stop by the Student Government office, room 17 in Regina hall. 
1\ll'Kenna would also like to see an increase in the activities bet­ween Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. "We'd like to bring Notre Dame over to this campus more often." McKenna said. 
The Social Commission is presently working on bringing the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student dirt'ctories back together again. she added. 

Evans. :l8, moderator of a 
program called "The · Alter­
native." which provides a 
dating sen·ice as part of its 
format. has been accused of 
rape. sodomy and unlawful 
imprisonmPnt by a coed h-om 
<'harlotte. N.C. 
AI Evan's non-jury trial 1\lnnday. rlefense lawyer How­ard 1\leyer of the Legal Aid Society argued that what took place was seduction. 
"Tiwre's a thin line between spduclion and rape." he said. "If there is a conviction in this easP. everybody is up for grabs." 1\!Pyer said. 
"En'rvbodv in New York !'ily (:ngages in seductive activiliPs, in bars and in the slrPt>ls." ht> said. 
ThP complainant. at the time a Wt>llt>sley Collt>gl.' tol.'d who now attends Dartmouth, testi­fiPd that she met Evans at La(;uardia Airport on thl.' night of .Julv 15. 
ShP · said Evans told here hi.' was a psychologist researching a book on womPn coming into 

;\lODEHN IN E\'EHY IJI<:TAIL. 
9 MONTH LEASE AVAILABLE ­e USING NEW LEASE APPROVED BY DlR OF OFI<'-CAMPUS HOUSING. 
ONE BUILDING BEING RESERVED e FORGHADUATE STUDENTS-9 MO. OR 12 MO. LEASE. 
SUMMEH APARTMENTS 
• AVAILABLE NOW. 
APARTMENT LAYOUT 

. the city and he "had been watching woml.'n come off the plane. 
"Ht' said lherl.' was some­thing special about mi.'," she lestifiPd. adding that the defendant took notes while she spoke with him. 
ThP c?mplainant said she accepted Evans' offl.'r of a ride to 1\lanha.ttan. where she was to catch a train to White Plains. 
N.Y. Howt'VI.'L tht> couple went to 1\laxwell's Plum. a lively East Side singles' bar. and until midnight viewed "the super­fieialilit>s" of singll.'s · bars "as pa rl of Ihe research." she said. 
Tht> complainant testified that aflt>r the two spent about an hour in the apartment. Evans suddt>nly grabbed her. pulled lwr backward onto the sofa bed and raped her. 
Fr. Griffin to say· May Day mass 
Fr. Hober.l Griffin. University <'haplain. will celebrate a May llay mass in the l{;rotto. May l in honor nf the BlessPd Virgin Mary lo whom lht> month of May is dPdicaiPd. ThP mass. which will be ' lwld at :i:Oo p.m. is also in salute to spring and Fr. (iriffin invites all llll'mlwrs of the University community to attend. 
NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS 
NOW RENTING FOR '75-'76 SCHOOL YEAR 

THESE Al'AHTMENTS AHE LOCATED JUST SOUTH OF THE t'Al\ll'liS ON NOTIU: DAMI<:: AVENUE. EACH APAHTMENT IS DESIGNED FOH FOl H OH Fin: STUDENTS AND IS COMPLETELY 
SOME OUTSTANDING FEATURES: 
Privale Palios and Balconies A1r Condilioning Kilchen wilh Range. Relrigeralor and Garbage Disposals 
Cooking Ulensils. Dishes. Silverware, Glasses, elc. Wall lo Wall Carpeling Parly Bar Soundproof and Fireproof Construclio Prew,red for Cable TV and Telephone L 1ghled Paved Parking Area Complelely Furnished 1X Long Beds) Trunk Storage Over 1.000 sq. II apartment Excellent Securily 
FOR RENTAL INFORMATION.CALL 272-7656 or 234-6647 
6 the observer Tuesday, April 29, 1975 
Non-epidemic proportions 

Nu1nerous rubella cases reported 
by Mark Jahnl' Starr Reporter

l 
Forty-eight students have been treated at the Notre Dame In­
firmary in the recent outbreak of 
Rubella, commonly known asl German measles. Infirmary physician Dr. Helen Calvin stated yesterday that despite the numerous cases reported so far, the outbreak is not considered an epidemic. She noted that the first cases reported in­
volved a few law students shortly after the semester break. 
Dr. Calvin described the symp­toms as being, "a low grade fever, general tiredness and malaise, and of course the rash." She added that is some cases the eyes become bloodshot and the gland in the neck swelL 
Unlike other strains of measles, Rubella is relatively harmless and lasts only three days. Only pregnant women need fear of its 

SenatOrS propose large cut in projected federal deficit 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -Four conservative senators Monday proposed cutting the projected ft>dt>ral deficit to $35 billion ­$25 billion below what President Ford is recommending. 
They said that while this would lead to a short-term increast> in unemployment, in th(' long term employm('nt would rebound with ·'hPII<'r quality" jobs a\ailanh· 
pt>rmanent jobs in the private Pconomy rather than temporary government jobs for the jo­bless. 
~ 
Sens. James L. Buckley, R­N.Y., William Brock, R-Tenn., James A. McClure, R-Idaho, and Harry F. Byrd Jr., D-Va., at a news conference, an­nounced plans to propose federal spending at a level which would produce a deficit of only $34.7 billion. Their plan I would require a $7.5 billion tax 
l increase on energy sources. The proposal will be offered
I 
in the Senate Tuesday as a budget resolution setting spending guidelines for fi:-cal 
year t!l7ti. which starts .Jut~-l -is taken up. 
The proposed resolution. pro­duct of the Senate Budget Committee. projects a $69.6 billion deficit. with some spending shifted from defense and foreign aid and toward more economic stimulation to speed up recovery. 
All graduating, continuing and prospective sociology majors will have a brief meeting Tuesday, April 29, in 116 O'Shaughnessy. The time of the meeting is 7 p.m. 
Topics to be covered at the meeting include an introduction of staff advisers to all present and prospective majors; discussion of career and job planning for graduating seniors; presentation of certificates to members of the AKD Sociology Honor Society; and a question -answer segment on the sociology program itself. 
..... ·-..... ...... .
' 
RIVER PARK
.......·-.......... . 
• IIHAWAIC& &YI. Af Hfll. 
STARTS FRIDAY 
INGMAR BERGMAN'S 
SCENES FROM 
AMARRIAGE 
LIV ULLMAN 
The House takes up its own resolution Wednesday. The House Budget Committee called for a $73.2 billion deficit and even deeper cuts in defense spending and more stimulation. 
On March 29, signing the tax cut bill, Ford had said he could 
accept  a  $60  billion  dollar  
deficit.  
Buckley  called  the  Senate  

committee proposal "a recipe for e·conomic disaster," and predicted that while initially it might cut into unemployment, ultimately it would lead to more inflation and more recession. 
"In the shorter period, you might have somewhat higher unemployment" with the small­er deficit, Buckley said, but within 18 months "not only would it produce as many jobs <as a larger deficit) but it would produce better quality jobs." 
The others agreed. McClure said at the moment it was impossible to operate the federal government without a deficit. 
But the four disputed the economic theory that a project­ed deficit as small as one they propose would lead to higher unemployment, and result in such a big shortfall in tax revenues that the deficit would effects. 

Carried by an airborne virus, ~t is highly contagious. For thts 1 reason those reporting to the in­firmary with the disease are kept 1 there under care so that they will j not begin to spread it around the dormitories. 
Rubella has an incubation period of eight to fourteen days, so it is possible that cases will continue to arise through the end of the school year. In describing the well-known skin blotches caused by the disease, Dr. Calvin said, "The rash usually starts around the neck and face, the upper body, and spreads to the body in that pattern. 
The appearance is of flat and tiny red blotches very close together." 
A Rubella vaccine was invented in the mid-60's, and it is probable that at least some students have received it, Dr. Calvin noted. Also. many contracted the disease as children, and as Dr. Calvin remarked, "In most cases vou are immune for life after having it once. It's rare to get it a second time." 

SUNDAY, MAY 18 5 PM ONE SHOW ONLY 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ALL SEATS RESERVED $7.50, 
TICKETS ON SALE  $6.50,  
STARTING MONDAY,  $5.50  
APRIL 28 11 AM TO  

5 PM DAILY AT AUD. BOX-OFFICE 



Tuesday, April 29, 1975 
the observer 
7

Aid to Phnom Penh 
France, UN appeal to Cambodian Communists 

By  l'nited  Press  International  
France  and  the  United  
Nations  Monday  appealed  to  

the new pro-Communist govern­ment in Cambodia to permit mercy shipments of food and medicine to hundreds of fo­reigners holed up in the French embassy in Phnom Penh. There was no immediate reply. 
Phnom Penh radio, in a broadcast monitored in Bang­kok. said the victorious Khmer Rouge had decided to keep Prince Norodom Sihanouk as 
Three dead, tw-o still lllissing
•
1n Washington avalanche· 
STEVENSON. Wash. <UP I>· 
A rt>scue ti>am Monday· rPacht'd lht' bodies Qf -thre.e \'iC!ims Of a W.(;'ekend avalanche nn Mt. Sl. Helens. Two other nwmbPrs of a college m!'iuntai­nPering dass .·caugh.t. iit the snow were still missing and pn•sumPd dt>ad. · 
Th(• five were part of a 29­nwmbt>r dass from the· Univer­
sity of Pugl't Spund that had·· beloV.· the avalancht' ·on ·the 
gom• to the area for . an north sidt' of the 9,677;foot high0\'t•rnight Slay in tents and mtiUn1ain. . snow cavf:>s. Saturdav.. The High winds up to 70 miles ·per sur\'ivors t'alked o( ·;.~aching hour rause-d. "Whitt;>outs" Sun­rhret• bodit>s and having to day thai drove back down tht> 
lPa\'(' them behind, with the fall' of tht' .other two unknown. 
Ttw group was struck by ihe sPcond of two killt>r avalanches Saturday that swt>pt down from lhP high Cascadt>s on both :;ictes of thP Columbia Hi\·er. Sanclt>e IIPP. 28. Corvallis. Ort'., :m \\n•gon State llniversi ty ocea­nograph~· instructor. died in an a\·aJanehP whilt> on a hiking trip up :\11. !!nod. 

DODDCIDg 


Ten Weekly 
Issues (Jun 12-Aug 14 ) Delivered to your 
, 

slopt•s an l:'arlier rescut> at­tPmpt hy 50 pt>rsons. · 
Thrt>t> ·of the 24 pt'rsons who Pseap('d \H're treated for minor injuril'S. 
·l\llssing and prt'sumt>d dead \n'rP h:aren l\lonio and Nina EngPL>ertson. both of Tacoma. \\ash.: Eric Spurell. Iknver. !\llo.: Dick l'fesser. Fedt>ral Way. Wash.: and Phil-Burdick. Eaton\'ill('. \\'ash . 
• 
chief of state. But it said nothing of the fates of more than 600 foreigners, including a handful of American newsmen, who Wt>re in Phnom Penh when it fell April 17. 
Frt>nch government officials in Paris said an epidemic of dysentery had broken out among the refuget>s in the embassy. French sources at the United Nations said the foreign­ers needed food, medicine and a way to leave the complex. 
A French military transport 
Skamania Co.unty sht>riff's officials ht're said rP.scuers \\'PrP geared .for a second ii!leinpf at reaching the 6,500 fool it'vPI o[ Mr. St. Helens helow Forsyth Glacier where the fiyt> ·· W('re missing. The tf,'ams wer'e gathered at the tim berlint'. a few hun.dred yards abov(i a parking Jot nPar Spiri( Lake .and about 2,400 feet plane was standing by · at the Laotian capital of Vientiane with a load of medical and other relief supplies, awaiting an okav from Cambodia for permiss-ion to land at Phnom Pt>nh. 

A French spokesman said that if the flight could be made the aircraft would try to t'vacuate at least some of the refugees now inside the t>mbassy compound. 
U.N. Secretary (ieneral Kurt Waldht>im appealed to both Phnom Pt>nh and to Sihanouk in 
The class had planned • an overnight stay . in tents . and snow cav'es. only . to have the avalanche eome ·roaring down at them as many were already twdded down Saturday night. 
the observer 
Night Editor: Maggie Waltman Asst; Night Editor::· Bob Brink Layout staff: Maui'een• Sajbel, Francis Anthony Spina Day Editor:. Bob· Radziewici Copy .Reader: Ken Bradford 
Editorials:  John  Amantea,  Jim  
Eder  
Features:  Tom O'Neil  

Sports: Bill Brink Katie Kerwin 
Typists: Barb Norcorss, Neil Viii, Karen Hinks, Janet Carney Compugraphic: Chip Spina Night Controllers:· Howard and Tim P~cture Screener: At Ad Layout: Tom Jennings Whelan 

Peking to permit relief mis­
sions to the embassy. A U.N. 
spokesman said Monday no 
response had been received 
either from Sihanouk or from 
the Cambodian capital. 
French sources also said the 
Khmer Rouge took away the 
embassy's radio transmitter 
and that authorities in Paris 
had heard nothing since Satur­
tiay. It was not clear whether 
the Communist authorities con­
fiscated the transmitter or 
forbade its use. 
There also was no word from Phnom Penh as to the fate or Whereabouts of former premier Long Borel and other leaders of the deposed government, some of whom the Khmer Rouge once said were marked for death. 
DUE TO an unforeseen delay, students still await the arrival of new furniture in the La Fortune lobby (photo by Chris Smith). 
server 
Coverage Of: 
Graduation Cheerleader's Convention 
Alumni Reunion Letters to a Lonely God Administration Antics. 
Phnom Penh radio instead 
carried a statement. under 
Khmer Rouge leader Khiu 
Samphan's signature, that a 
·'special na tiona! congress" of 
thp Cambodian liberation move­
ment had decided unanimously 
to maintain Sihanouk as chief 
of state. 

The broadcast shed little light on other developments in Cambodia, including what sort of political organization was being set up to run the country. 
The radio said in a com­munique that ailing Penn Nouth, in exile with Sihanouk in Pt>king, would be allowed to remain in the post of prime minister and repeated earlier statements the country would follow policies of neutrality and 
campus minorit•1es 
opinion 
on 

ThP purpost' of this column is to outline many of lht> injustict-s suffered by Mt-xican workPrs without visas due to oppressive and t•xploitativP policiPs, proct>dures and t-n­fort't'ml'nl practicPs of lht' U. S. Jusctice Ikpart mt•nt and othE'r agt'ncies. and thE' n•sultanl misPry and hardship suffert-d by 1\lPxican undocumpnted workers. The \·iolations to tht• dignity of man. human and l"ivil rights. dm• proct>SS of law. art-such in­justicPs that indt•Pd warrant an investigation hy Civil l!ights Commission and the United \ations. 
llndPrstanding lht• reality of the oppression institul!'d against Mt•xican undill'UmPnlt-d workt•rs through lht' racist immigration policy PslablishPd by varit-d interests groups m thP quPsl of maintaining or incrt>asing the ,.ubjuga t ion and dept-ndenct-of certain nwmlwrs of humanity in order to maintain and im-rPast• lht>ir social political and t'l'onomic domination. I come to the con­dusion that lht> pn•sent inequities are not simply a matter of dt•gret-nor accident. but art•l·ompsPd of mostrous substances rooted in lundaml•ntal altitudt•s in men of powt-r and privilt•gt•. 
ThP I rt>almPnl and conditions experienced hy 1\!Pxican workt-rs without visas are indet-d tragic. and sornt>limt>s ironic. as the following points strongly illustrate: 
:\It•"it-an wm·kt•rs \\ ithout visas pa~· more la"\l•s than all utht•r t·esidt-nts ot· workt-rs on tlw samt• amount or wages t-anwd. This is due to the fact that tht> U.S. Internal Revenue St•rvict> denies to Mexicans and other Latin i\mt•rican workers without visas the right of deduct tht> costs of supporting and sustaining tht-ir h·gitimatt-dt-pendents such as spouses. children.part-nts and younger brothers and sistt>rs evt-n though these are U.S. born i\mPrican citizens or permanent residents. Tht•st> workers are forced to fill out their tax forms and to pay taxes as if they were all single workers. 
1\lt•xican wm·kers without visas cannot l'Oill'l'l uut•mploynwnt insu•·anct-benefits or stK·ial st•t·urity pa~·ments. Even though lht-y havt-paid for these benefits through the rt> 

Ia semana de Ia raza 
( In a span of two wt>eks, April 16-25, 1975, Notre Dame organizations hosted leaders of national prominence in the areas of 
~ 
rt-ligion. culture, politics and social actions. Tht-se leaders represent the driving force behind the Chicano movement today. But
r 
mort-importantly, they brought to Notre Damt-the vital issues of civil rights, human rights and social justice in the eyes of the Church. social reform and the freedom of 
~ 
l'UIIural t-xpression. These issues are an
( 
integral part of Notre Dame thought. The prt'St'ntation of such prominent figures during l.a Semana dt> l.a Haza <Chicano Wt't'k l allowpd the students an opportunity to opt>nly t-xpress their interests. 
l.a St•mana began with theCt-nter for Civil Hights sponsoring Dr. Jose Cardenas, forml'r supt>rintendent of the Edgewood District. San Antonio. Texas and Governor .Jprry Apodaca of Nt-w Mexico during the l'onft-rt-nct-"Beyond Civil Rights: The Right to Economic St-curity". Apodaca en­eouragt-d t-ffective action by state govern­mmts to insure civil rights namely, \'ducalion and social justice. Dr. Cardenas discussed tht> inadequacies of urban t•ducation. detrimt-ntal to educational achit-vt>mt•nts of minorities, but made it 
dt-ar that few quick and easy solutions t•xistt-d. 
On April 19, a Symposium was held on "Human Hights and Social Justice and the l'hurch". Tht-three Chicano Bishops in the llnitt'd States. Bishop P. Flores, Bishop G. l'havt>zand Archbishop R. Sanchez. met for tht> first timt-in the Midwest and questioned tht-rt-sponsivent-ss of the Catholic Church to the needs of the barrio. 
The Bishops addressed themselves to prt-viously ignored issues facing the Chicano population such as poor rt-presentation in the church, the farm­workers' plight, the illegal aliens and the discrimination in t-ducation. politics, housing, ht-alth and te media. But more importantly, the Bishops publicly com­mitted themselves first of all, as Chicanos, willing to bear the burden of nuestra causa. second as priests, ministering to the spiritual and corporal needs of our people, 
human rights 
by ricardo porra 
dPniPd tht•st• hl'nPfits wht-n they need them most. that is. wht>n thPy are jobless, old or sick. 
:\lan.v \lexican wm·kt•rs without visas an• th•n it•II disa hi lit,. insun•alll'e lwnl'fil 11a~ mt•nts. which havt-bt-t-n paid out in advanct• from their wet-kly paycheck. 
WhPn employPrs refust-to pay their wages, m·l'rtime pay. vacation pay. pPnsion or t-vt-n the minimum wagt-. :\lt•xican workl'rs \\ ithuut \isas ('an nut avail tht•mst>lvl's of thl' lahnr Ia\\ t•nfm"Ct•mt•nt rights and facilities. \\'hpn lhPSP workt-rs complain. they are dPportt>d. 
:\lt'"\inlll wurkt•rs \\ ithout ,·isas must pay hight•r hus11ilal. nwdical. ;utd drug hills at the county hospitals for tht>y art-billed as non­n·sidPnls at rates that are only charged by hospitals for thP rich. Tht-y must pay all of tht• mPdical assistanct-bills for themselves and tht>ir familit-s before they can get their ,·isas. 
Thl'ir dtildn•n without visas l'atmot gl'l 
sdwul m· l'ollegt• assistancl' grants or 
sdwlat·ships. nr sdwol (lrogrammt'd jobs. 
FurthPr. all aids givt-n to their spouses, 
part>nts. rt-latives and· children, are not 
I'Xt-mptt-d form paymt>nt. t>vt-n though these 
rt-lativt-s may be lt-gitimate lJ.S. born or 
pt•rmant>nt rt-sidents with visas themselves. 
As long as they art-dt-pendent relatives of a 
worker without a visa that worker must pay 
for his dPpendt-nts assistanct-before a visa is 
~rantl'd. 

\\'hpn they have to go to the courts, in­variably they lose or fail to appear because of tht-ft>ar of tht-ir status being discovered and thus It-ad to deportation. Thus. equal treat­mPnt undt-r the law or t-quity for recovery of l'ivil damagt-s are all greatly diminshed for tht-st-workers by their vulnt-rability before tht-authoritit-s. 
Tht-y art-continuously victims of consumer 
fraud by unscrupulous mt-rchants who charge 
unusually hight-r prices. higher interest rates, 
balloon payments and oher "sharpee" 
ractict-s on crt-dit salt-s. Wht-n the 
by wesley vargas 
and lastly. as Bishops putting the power of tht-ir office behind their committment. 
As a result of discussions on the plight of the Mt-xican workers without documents, tht-Bishops took a strong position and sent a sharply worded telegram to the President: 
Dear l\lr. President: 

Wt> strongly disapprove of both your in­tentions of bringing 180,000 South Viet­namPSe pt>rsons to the United StatP.S and our Govt-rnmt-nt's insistence on the dt-portation of illegal aliens in our country. These ac­
tions are inconsistent. Sincerely, Archbishop Robert Sanchez Bishop Patrick Flores Bishop Gilbert Chavez It is unfortunate that such a conference t>mbodying religious and civil rights was sparst-ly attended by the Notre Dame community. Voicing this widely held sen­timt-nt. Notre Damt-graduate student Lydia f<:spinoza apologized to the Chicano Bishops. "This is aCatholicUniversity, but not one nwmber of the administration was there to wt>lcomt-you and only one member of the faculty attended your presentation," she said. On April 23, 1975, Eliseo Mediana, an t•xecutive mt-mber of the United Farm­workers of Amt-rica, AFL-CIO, presented tht-strugglt> for proper union representation through "frpe" t-lection. At the moment. the lWW is fact-d with a battle against the growt>rs and Tt-amsters which have united to dt-stroy the farmworkers' union. Agribusint-ss' growers signed "sweetheart" contracts with the Teamsters that in fact did not rt-present the consent of the farm­workers. As a result. a boycott of Gallo wint-s and table grapes, as well as lettuce has becomt-the vehicle to change the l'Urrt-nt situation. Finally on April 25, a workshop and a musical concert was sponsored to present tht> "Cultural Diversity in Indiaana: The Chicano Expt>rience". lntt-rnationally ht-ralded playwright, Luis Valdez. founder of the award-winning actors Pnst-mble, El Teatro Campesino. stressed 
to pay or complain 
with lwigh turnt-d over authoritit>s. This applies arrangt•ments with grPt-dy landlords and of l'ourst• with sweatshor and slavery types of Pmployt•rs in farms. n·staurants. shops and t>stablishmt-nts who aftt•r having t>xtracted the maximum of swPat and hard labor at tht> poorest of wages turn thest' workt-rs ovt>r to immigration agt-nts. In tht• arn•sting and dt-tention 1\!t>xican and olhPr Latin Amricans by migration agPnls, tht> Pntirt-right 
_ to dut-proct-ss is dt-nit-d as a matter of policy and practice. ThP hail to appeal and not to incriminate oneself is hrushl'd asidP hy higher immigration service offieials. on the gounds that pPrsons without ,·isas. arrt>stt•d int he lJS art-not criminals. nor undPr arrt-st but mt>rt-ly detained under an administative proct-dure; not Pntitlt>d to tht> constitutional guarantees and rights that offer protection in criminal l'aSt'S. 
SpPcialmention must lw made here of the tt•rriblP injustice which is daily bt-ing com­mittt>d aginst hundreds familiPs. pfft-cting <'hildn•n who an• born many spouses as Wl'll. pPrmam•nt U.S. residents who are deported to 1\lt•xico and art-there unablP to rt>turn simply lwcaust-the family has no visa. and unhuman division-by-fore!'. of families whost-only crimt' was to have been born brown. 1\h•xican. and surnamt•. to have t•ntered the U.S. hard and long hours for lht-poorestpay and most abominablt-working conditions. 
I must t>rnphasize ht-re that hese families arl.' the desct-ndants of those who colonized, peoplt>. and devt-loped the Southwest U.S.A. long bt-fort-thert-was a U.S.A. and long after until 1848 when through the violt-nct>, treacht-rv and deceit these lands of tht> SouthwPst !almost half of the territory &t 1\lt•xico l wPrt' st-izt-d. 
I am hoping that you will take 
about cht>ating practices they are threatened to the immigration to their housing homes, hopitals, process of im­·ight to counst-1. to thus,they are of thousands of particularly childrt-n. in the U.S.A. and born here or who art­at this very moment to tht> land of their birth. brPadwinnt-r in their Tis is ant-specially cruel with a Sapnish­to work use of armed an active a real great in­of an open "  Not until 1969 did Notre Dame feel the presence of the Chicano student. It was then that MECHA was first orgainized by the few five or six undergraduate students t-nrolled. In those initial yt-ars the organization struggled for recognition of the Chicano presence at Notre Dame. Through old Obst•n·t-r articles I have seen the militancy which emerged as the founders failed to find a hom!' for themselves; in their dorms as individuals, in student govern­ment. as a club, and in the ad­ministration,as a distinct ethnic group of st udmts. One of the orginal foundt>rs of Notre Dame's MECHA chapter is currently enrolled at the National Law Ct-nter of the George Washington University. Armando told us many stories of his first year at Notre Dame. Everyone shared very similar experiences, but no one's rt-ached those of Armando. His wt-re naive expectations of another place like home. He knew a lot about Notre Dame; how it was founded for poor Irish kids, who wPre being discriminated against and declared "unadmissabJp" at  
chicano~ With tht-Pnrollmt>nt of min1 Notre Daml.'. nt-w clubs and or appt-ared on campus. Th• minorities. Chicanos and Black of eampus organizations run bent>fit of these students. Th• studt-nts to·socialize and oven that arise through campus life Prof. Thomas Broden. Dir Studit-s lnstitutt-; commt-nted. minorities encountt-r any grt-at than most campust-s," Martha Vasqut-z, forme1 l\1El'HA. t-xplaint-d that one Chicanos studt-nts and othe1 eountt-r is misundt-rstanding. C daim that a minority student dot-sn 't know how to perform . such as writing a term papt \'asqut-z. Tht-y should rt-alizt-that thel l'Omt• from schools as good avt-rage Notre Dame student.' If allowPd the samt> quality e• studt-nts these students could samt> levt-1. sht-said. •1ncrea  
to Chicanos of as well as to been "ignored and educational the fallacies of and underscored the  
community among ethnic backgrounds The performance organizations have programs for the was "Las Mujer their status, accomplishments, has  While minority student admissior many prominent universities acros! 1974, the University of Notre Dame t-nrollmt-nt of new minority student tht> trt-nd of the past three years. 100 nt-w minority students in 1974. to 96 the previous year. A report compiled by the Ct>nter of the University of Maryla appears that the t-mphasis and i minority admissions has peaked declining." In contrast to tht> national trends incrt-ast-d tht-ir recruiting efforts. only that assistance withdrawn b~ Govt-rnment.  
Symposium to understanding of a musical and to the Notre  Tht-incrt-ase in Notre Dame missions in the face of a nationw largt-ly due to the t-fforts and cor the Admissions Office, and speci1 Saracino. Associate Director of Saracino is in chargt-of a program minorities which includes the nor high schools as well as special ef only at minorities. Saracino. stated that he felt mitmt-nt of both the admissions university to minority recruitme! two sourct-s-a "Moral respons1 minoritit-s and an effort to t>ducation for all students. In the October. 1972 issue of th• 1\lagaziue. Saracino wrote, "Man: t>xpect minorities to help themselv impossible for them to acquire th€ DamP is making an t-ffort to provi· A second factor compelling minority students is an obligation  

· 
intt-rt>st in this issue and in finding solution rather than the present rather than tht> prPst-nt practict-of blaming the victims. Your activt-concern would have a flut>nct> on the developmt-nt 
are sl w mr ram "sin fr 
tht-l'rucial importance recognizing and appreciating their "native, prt--Columbian anct-stors". To punctuate his. l'ommt>nt. Valdt-z rept>atedly reverted to his nativt-Spanish language allusions to Zapotec mythology and Mayan history. a strain of Amt-rican history which Valdt-z bt-lieves has obscurt-d by an American system grounded in f<:uropt>an superiority 
In addition to his ('mphasis on the short­comings of "Anglo monoculturalism monolingualism•• Valdez possibilities for true Pf'Oplt> of different through a recognition of the strengths and \'irtues in "lndianism". 
Tht-t>vening's musical presentation was providro by Daniel Valdez and Company, a Chicano combo which has recently released 
I 
an album. "Mestizo". includt'd a "musical history of el Chicano" as wt>ll as modern renditions of traditional Mt-xican t'mTidos. 
C1 Prior to La St>mana de l.a Haza, MECHA and otht-r on~ampus sponsored numt-rous bent-fit of the Notre Dame community. The most recent t-vent Chicana" which addressed itself to a greatly nt-glt-ctt-d portion of the Chicano population. Tht-ir history. including problt-ms and rt-mained rt-latively unexplored.Tht-rt-have been popular refert-nces--{)n the one hand, to the docile. passive, subjugated, long­suffering woman and on the other hand, to tht> !'motional. st-nsual. passionate seduc­trt-ss--nt-itht-r of these images provides an adt-quate understanding of the dynamic role of tht-Chicana Tht> growing outspokt-nness of Chicanas has brought attention to their changing role within contemporary culture. Therefore it 
t was tht> objectivt> of this attempt to achieve an mujt•rt"s through their history and unique expt>rit-nces in American society and within 
pro Chicano culture. The event which was well attendt-d, tt-rminated with theatrical pt>rformance by the members of El Teatro del Barrio of Chicago, Illinois. 
In closing . these sponsoring organizations would like to emphasize that these activities and past activities have been organized for I he sole purpose of bringing DamP community issue!>. 
•

a study 1n disappointment 
by martha vasquez 
the time. calls upon MECHA for comments Usually present are a few dub Turning on the radio we missed After all those late nights we spent 
Armando knew that Notre Dame and at limPs. advice or. possible mrmbers, two or three graduate those passionate, Mexican Ran­talking when our friends admitted was a Catholic institution. He felt campus activities. The Office of students and maybe a couple cheras." We noticed that people at they had never before known a he could identify with the poverty Admissions sends visiting ap­profess~rs teaching related sub­Notre Dame do not like to be Mexican, it saddens me to realize and the discrimination of the Irish plicants to MECHA students for jects. In our desire to share our touched and we learned to say that after four years, they still background as well as with the tours of the campus giving tht•m culture with our fellow students we ''excuse me" at the slightest haven't. 
religion of Notre Dame, both much the opportunity for input into the have sponsored cultural ('VPnls physical encounter This disappointment after four a part of his past. Instead, Ar­Admissions process of fellow such as tostada stands, thPalrical And then towards the end of 
years seems to characterize
mando saw only the remains of a Chicano students. Notre Dame's and dance performances as well as our four years, we find ourselves MECHA just as enthusiasm andlegend. "Poverty is unknown and expansion of its minority lectures. but no one seems to want once again, removed. different and 
determination characterize the 
so. misunderstood. Catholicism is recruitment has gone hand in hand what we have to offer. alone. No one knows much about incoming ones. Perhaps the an­here, in ritual, but not as a binding with MECHA's increased in­Most Chicanos came to Notre us. We know our friends' families, swer lies in the nature of :\II·:CIIAS'force. It does not serve to unite volvemrnt in the Office of Ad­Dame. like Armando, excited wr have \'isi!Pd their homes concerns or in the scope of herstudents of difft•rent ethnic and missions and Financial Aid. hopeful. but a little scared. The and toured their fathers' com­goals. There is also the possibility Pconomic backgrounds." During academic breaks MECHA question in everyone's mind is -panies. We have become pickle­that the problem lies withSix years later. MECHA has recruits Chicano or other will I fit in? Freshman year is Patrrs and lovers of french fries. 
Notre Dame. Maybe Armandomuch to show for all her efforts. Americans of Latin descent. lillt>d with great optimism and At the expense of our Spanish we was right. It should be ourQnlike 1969, today approximately Mrmbers speak at local high determination. Much time is have become very proficient in religion and not necessarily our70Chicanos attend Notre Dame. In schools. leave information and devoted to studies for, in many English to the extent that it has culture. that brings us together.
recognizing the tmmPI needs and then follow through on any ap­cases. we are the first college become our the broad goals of Mecha, student plications submitted. generation and we carry the hopes most efficient mrans of com­Partly our disappointment lies government has allocated a Although MECHA has come a of our entire Spanish-speaking munciation. With graudationjust in the fact that the Chureh has significantly larger budget for us long way. in a very fundamental communities. In the dining hallls, around the corner and everyone not lived up to our expectations. than for any other club on campus. way we are still where we were in wr tried everything, tasting the t•nthralled in future plans the sense We came to ND as others, seeking The Student Union, a branch of 1969. Despite our efforts we remain unfamiliar dishes with oddly of isolation is sharpened. Most of a good education. but as Chicanos 
Student Government, assists an unknown entity in the eyes of mixed sweet and spicy foods. We us will return to our gente and we our culture demands an MECHA's efforts to attract our peers. If noticed at all, we're spoke only English despite the look forward to initialing rducation that also furthers our nationally known Chicano associated with the foreign initialhandicaps engendered by our better conditions for everyone in Christian ideals. As Bishop 
speakers. Cultural Arts, still students. Even the increased dependency on the "Spanish" the barrio. On the other hand, our Chavez noted, there is need for a anolhPr branch, has helped Chicano presence has not touched language. And when we friends are either busy finding "liberalized rducation" that in­sponsor Mexican cultural our fellow students. All of our mispronounced a word, we were teaching positions in the "nice" tegrates such Christian ideals as 
activities are poorly attended by areas or being recruited by one of
activities. accused of being accepted solely social justice and human dignity 
The office of Student Activities our fellow undergraduates. the "big right" accounting firms, with our chosen profession.
becuase we wge WP?WiSS 
lnd black participation in ca.mpus organizations 
. . by martha fanning
·it~· st~dents at l\tl<~CHA has undertaken: such projects as ~he conditions and inadequate wardrobe along with law stuoents. aruzation~ h~ve tutormg of students havmg problem~ wh1ch the nt•w lifestyle. makr adjusting to college life Tht> l'Pntro De Estudiso Chicanos e In-
two prmc1ple usually stem from a language barner. ex-('Ven more difficult. The result is a feeling of n•stigaciones Sociales. was established three . have a number pecially in the freshman year. bt•ing elientated. and half years ago. When Father Hesburgh was by and for the l\11-XHA was begun fivr years ago. Although it l\li<:CHA tries to get prominent Chicano approached about a Chicano Studies program. >e clubs enable has no national center. branches of MECHA lt•aders to come to campus to encourage pride in ht• n•fust>d it du~ to a lack of dunds. So a group of orne difficulties t•xist all over the country. Each branch adapts to lht• ( 'hicano heritage. Also these leaders want to studt>nts started it on their own. It now serves as its own local situation. ht>lp other students on campus understand their a l'Pnter for the promotion of Chicano studies. The branch at Notre DamP began when few dassmates. since the university has not attempted to provide
'Ctor of Urban Chicanos were attending the university. Their Last year l\ll<:CHA succt>eded in getting the this typt• of service. according to Gilbert Car-I don't think the 
main purpose then was rrcruiting more Chicano llniwrsity to conduct an orientation program for dt•nas. dirt>ctor of the Centro. 
r difficulty here students. The mt>mbers worked closely with Dan minorities as part of the n·gular Notre Dame Tht• black minority on campus has several Saracino. Associate Director of Admissions. program. Tht>y also broought in seceral organizations also. Located on the second floor
President of 
Tht>y spoke at various high schools informing spt•akers. of LaFortunP Student Center is the Black>f the problems students of the requiremPnts for admission to "All of the actions are gt>ared toward helping Cultural Arts CPnter. Formt>rly the Afro-minorities en­l'ollege. The participants of MECHA also in-tht> univt>rsity learn about our culture." Vasquez Amt•rican Society Center. it has been in'ten students will 
tervit>wt>d prospective students while home at said. In an pffort to further accomplish this task Pxistt·nce for the past four years.
is stupid if he Christmas ,·acation. l\tl<:CHA brought in various speakers on topics Tht• coordinator of the ct>ntPr is Boisie Watson. 
"routine" taks "The main concern." Vasquez stated "is to such as Bi-Lingual Pducation. Civil Hights and The l'Pnter t•xists as an outlet for black students r. according to make the university commit itself. rPcruiting l'nitt>d Farm Workers. on campus. When speakers appear on campus more students. and helping applicants after somt•timt•s an informal rap session is held. 
~ people did not t•nrollment." Anolht>r Chicc.no organization involved in li.JAl\11\lA is also a society for all un­iS those of the rt>cruiting students is the La Haza Law Students. dt•rgraduatP black students on campus. ItVasquez stated. Minority students coming to Notre Dame find This group has been involved with MECHA and st>rvt•s as an t•quivalent of the Black Studentucation as most themselves competing with a group with whom st>vt>ral projects of their own. !Inion of other schools. Dealing with academiccompete at the they have never had experience. According to Tht• organization was set up by ten Chicano and social life. they hope to play a major part inVasquez. Also manner of speech, economic Law students. with the primary focus o:n putting on the Black Arts fpstival next year. 
•1n university enrollment of minorities 
by don reimer 
; declined at highest quality t'ducation possible for all its the pn•sent program still needed improvemt>nt. _A'I gamP mont>y." she remarked.
students.

the nation in 
"WP need to work more with our present efforts l\linority students attending N.D. recit>ve ncreased its In its effort to achieve these goals, the ad­to rt>ach all potential applicants," he said. financial aid from ,·arious Ft'deral Aid programs ;, CODtinuing missions office pursues an extensive program in addition to llniversity aid. Such programs as 
.D. enrolled Tht' llmverslly's first strong commitment to
dirPCted at recruitment of qualified minority Educational Opprtunity grants and 1'\ational 
,s compared recruitmt·nt of minority students came in 1969 I lirPcl Studt•nt Loans. provide tht> t•xtra
students to join the Notre Dame community. 

wht•n it was agreed that the net profits from the assistanl'P. Cotton Bowl football game would go for non­:\!any of tht• minority students qualify for
ltural Study The program begins in the fall when Saracino <tthletic minority .student t>ducation awards. :\otn• lhtmt• Sl·holar awards. which prm·id(' yetd, states, "It and members of the admissions staff visit high In tht> years previous to this commitment the anotht•r an•nue of assistance for tht>sP studPnts.
1terest given schools throughout the country. In addition to numht•r of minority students admitted each year .-\l-cording to tht• 1974 l<~thnic l\1 inority Ht•port. all and is now the normal school contracts the staff visits had gradually climbed to thirty-seven in 1969-70. of thP 22 Nolr<' DamP S.chnlm who shmn·dschools with at least ten percent minority For tht• 1970-71 school year the total of minority finaneial nt•t>d W('re givPn funds to t'nabh• tht•mPnrollmt•nt.
Notre Dame students t•nrolled in the freshman class more to attPnd.
As applications are received, the admissions

while losing than doubled to 76 students. 
.-\s of Ol·tober. 1974. om• hundn•d-Pighty st'\'t•noffice contacts various alumni around the
the Federal Sinct> this limP. minority Pnrollment has risen minority students in all four yt•ars Wl'rt'country and asks them to meet with the in­
m Pvery year t•xcept one. reaching its highest 
n•cpi\'ing $570.448 in aid pt>r yt•ar.
dividual students to better inform him abbnut 

total of one-hundred in the 1974-75 school year. 
:\kCauslin listed thP main soun·t•s of fundsNotre Dame. These efforts are augrr-,,bo~\.lt
ninority ad­Tht• ttniversity t>njoys a three million dollar which ('nabh• rninoritv students to atlt>nd Notn•
Christmas when minority students already at­

:le decline is l'ndowmt•nt for minority students. Dt>spite this llanw· -to to 50 thousand dollars pt•r yt>ar an•
tending N.D. are given several interested

mitments of incom<·. howPver. financial aid remains a primP dt•rin•d from lhP t•ndownwnt. $20.000 pt>r yPar
students to contact over break.

cally Daniel n·ason for tht• failure of minorities to attend the lrom :\ D. Sl'holarships. $15.000-20.!)()() pt>r yt>ar
Saracino noted that he sent a personal

~dmissions. uni \'t•rsi t y. trom athh•til· grants in aid. $15.000 pt•r yPar
Christmas card to each potential recruit to 

or recruiting Accord.ing to Saracino this problem stems brought from outsidt• sourct>s 1:\a tiona! 1\krit 1 
assure them it is "not just a computer

nal visits to from thP fact that thr endowmt•nt has rPmained and $15.tKKl pt•r yt•ar in HOTC Sl'holarships. Sht•
corresponding with them." He also sends each

)rts directed lhP samP since its PstablishmPnt in the spring of t•mphasizPd that all of the figun•s WPrt' ap­
student a copy of the :\otrt> Damt> :\lagazint> to t!l72. while tuition has risen. Ht> t>xpressed hope proximations.

give them a further look at N.D. 

that tht• PndowmPnt will be increased. "Tht>n• is no linannal aid bast>d stricth· on1at the com­In addition to these personal contacts with the ThP incomP from the t>ndowmt•nt varies t•ach I wing a nwml)('r nf a minority." said l\kCauslin. 
ffice and the students the admissions office sends several \'Par. according to Mrs. Jum• McCauslin. "lhw of tht' myths is that P\'Pry minority ist stems from letters to potential minority applicants. Students ;lin•clor of thP Office of Financial Aid. "If in­m•pd~·. that is not t rut•. · · ,ility" to the on a list compiled by the Student Search Service \·t·stmPnts an• doing wt>ll. Wt' have more to Tlw l'Onct•ntrat('d t·t'forts of tht• Offict• of Ad­ide a better of the College Entrance Examination Board. 
spt•n<l." sht• said. Sht> stated that the University mtssions to bring minority studt•nts to NotrPwhose SAT scores were competitive with other fl'l'Pi\'PS approximately a 5 percent return each llam(' havt• achit•vt>d much succt>ss in providingN.D. sludt>nt scores. are sent letters Pncouraging
Notrr Damt> H'ar on invt>slmt•nts of lht> PndowmPnt money. this l 'nivt>rsitv with an ethnicallv divt>rse
tht•m to consider this school. 

;!'his· rt>turn rt>mains fairly stable due to the studt•nt body. -Tht• erucial factor in tht> con­people today "My goal is that minority students who can do
s. yet make it stabh• natun• of thr investmt•nts. tinuation of thest• fine t•fforts is incrrased 
thP work are not ignored." stated Saracino," and Tht> Pndownwnt fund was necessary. ac­financial aid funds.
'tools'. Notre that they receive enough information to make cording to l\lcCauslin. lwcause it was im­In conl'luding his 1974 Ethnic l\1mority
e the 'tools'." thPir decision." practical to rely on bowl game income evt>ry Enrollm<'nt Ht>port. Saracino states. "The Ad­
.D. to seek 
As far as future plans for improvement of the ,·par." "Wt• can't expect to go to a bowl game missions Office will actively work to rt>ach mort' ~ provide the 
minority recruiting program. Saracino felt that (·very yt•ar. so it was not responsible to dt>pend minority students than t•vt~r ht•fon•." 

·... ·,··. ·.·.· :·.: .·:.·" 
............ 
• • ..,.;..., :··.I ', • .. 

. .. . .·, . · ......... . OOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
AI  The ObServer an independent student newspaper Founded November 3, 1966 Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief Bob Zogas Business Manaller Bob McManus Advertising Manager EDrfORIAL BOARD Rutherford. Managing Editor; Fred Graver. Executive Editor; Jim Eder, fditori,ll Editor Ko•n Gorouard. News Editor; Pat ;~anilin, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's F d1tor Kt·n Hrndlord. Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor. TomO'Neil. Features Editor lhros Sn11th. Photo Editor Editori•ls: 281-8661 N•ws: 18).1715 Bu\On•~>: 181·7471  
Tuesday, April 29, 1975  


SLC And 
Yesterday~s SLC meeting, the last of the year, appropriately capsulized the frustration and promise that havesim ultaneously gripped that body all year. 
First, the frustration...In recom­mending only half of .. Ed Byrne's parieta Is proposal to the Board of Trustees, the SLC provided only shadow arguments to retain the parietals deadline at midnight. The .S LC voted to extend visitation hours in the morning from noon to n a.m., but rejected Byr­ne's proposal to extend hours from midnight to 1 a.m. 
In rejecting the 1 a.m. curfew the SLC expressed the tear that any parietals change would adversely affect the sleeping habits of students. By having members of the opposite sex in rooms after midnight, students would create more noise and make life less com­fortable for other students. Alertness in early morning classes would be im­paired. 

Parietals 
If the SLC were really concerned about keeping quiet in the halls at night, they would have debated hall "Quiet Hours" and not the time members of the opposite sex should be allowed to visit. BBesides, the noise level at nights is usually caused by individuals of the same sex, not visitors. 
Although the Byrne proposal would. have changed very little of substance on the parietals question, it did demonstrate that there exists as much justification fa­a midnight curfew as for a 1 a.m. deadline. 
Now the promise...Student Govern­ment has produced a program of Judicial Boards to help decide cases involving parieta Is regulations, and formulation of hall policies. By creating standards fa­all halls to follow, Ed Byrne and Judicial Coordinator John Lansberg hope to revive a part of the judicial system that has been shuffled aside or usurped by the individual hall rector. 
Terry Keeney 
The Japcin Program
l An ana lysis of the recent Japan program controversy shows that a number of misconceptions surround not
,l 
only that program,but all of the Foreign Studies programs. 
Comments on theJapanprogram range from "a High Shool with ashtrays" to "excellent" to "students just wishing to travel on University time." Exactly what the status of the program is, in com­parison to an American educational experience is vague, if not totally unknown. 
What ts needed is a sort of clearing house for the impressions of students who have completed their period in the Foreign Programs, so that a valid picture of what is in store for those either entering or considering the program can be presented. 
Either Student Government or the Foreign Studies office, (preferably Student Government, as they have an independent perspective), should begin a type of annual evaluation booklet, 

something ·like  the  course  evaluations  
done  here,  for the vari ous  Foreign  
Programs.  

The booklet should not only cover the courses and the educational opportunities abroad, but the variety and quality of the experiences of living in the different cultures. The main body of material should be done by students who have recently returned from the program, and are willing to devote time and energy to giving a true portrait of their ex­periences. 
Such a booklet would be an invaluable service to the students involved in theForeign Program and for the Ad­ministrators of the Program. 
Fred Graver 
; ; 
) 
j 
'• 
'1 ··············;········~·····
• 

Who Will Answ.er? stephen k. judr:~e 
Several months ago I wrote a letter to the editor explammg why I was opposed to an unconditional amnesty. I now am forced to retract that view. As far as I am concerned they can all return and I won't expect a single apology. I cannot say I believe in what they did but I do not see any reason for singling out one group as a scapegoat for our nation's humiliation in Southt>ast Asia. 
I can remember a limP when there-was a thing called "personal n•sponsibility". At least there was an illusion of it. To explain it simply, it nwanllhat if you wt're wrong you admitted to it and took the blame. And if. on the other hand you were right. you stood up for what you believed no mallt'r what the consequences This sort of Gary Cooper psychology has always bt't'n a part of the American myth and I held to it for many years. To a gr<>al extent I still do. llnfortunately, the moral problems of Vietnam and Watergate have largely damaged this principle. What becomes of pt>rsonal n•sponsihility when Lon No! and Thieu skip town with $70 million in our gold and blamt' us? 
Tht> n•ason I oppost>d unconditional amnesty was that I felt our nation's laws. right or wrong. apply to everybody. If you thought the war was right ~·ou should have Pnlisted and volunteered for combat. If you thought it \\'as wrong you should have stood up in a court of law and said "I will not go... st'nd mt> to jail." But joining the National Guard or fleeing to Canada \H're the marks of cowards who could not accept the burdens of moral rt>sponsibility. Getting a deferment because you were a nice white college student and letting some poor Chicano or black go to the rice paddies of Asia for you was criminal in my view. And it still is. There is a difference between resisting and avoiding the draft. 
Yet. I must now substantially alter my position. Gary Cooperism doesn't make it anymore. The whole idea of personal responsibility Is of no value in a society that pardons Richard Nixon and prosecutes John I>Pan. I never heard Richard Nixon apologize. All he ever said was "I made some mistakes." 
Now what are our leaders saying in reference to Vietnam? Have you heard anyone come forward to say, "We were wrong, I'm sorry. It's my fault."? No. Instead, everyone is cowering and pleading that we 'should have no 'recriminations'. Nobody is going to be blamed for the Vietnam War or its conduct or its result. It was just an accident. . 
"Mr. and Mrs. Jones your son died as a result of a national accident in Vietnam. I hope you won't blame anyone." . 
"Mr. Veteran, we think it's a shame that you will spend the rest of your life in a hospital without arms, or legs, or eyes or testicles ... but that rocket that permanently disabled you was an act of God, just a massive case of bad luck." 
Who will answer them ?Who will come forward and answer for what has happened? Not the architects of our policies in Southeast Asia; l\lacNamara. Host ow, Bundy and others are all saying they had "doubts" all along as if we are to believe thast Evil Old Johnson rammed it down their throats. Sure they had doubts, ... but why didn't they tell anyone before thousands of Americans had died? And what about our Nobel Prize-Winning Secretary of .State? Has he come forward to apologize for 
.calling the Paris Agreements "Peace With Honor"? No! Today the Congress. the military. the bureaucrats, and all our leading statesmen are pointing their fingers in a hundred different directions. shouting in unison; "They did it.. .not I. I was just swept up by the course of events." 
I believt> in jus~ice that goes measure for measure. In my book. mercy starts at the bottom and blame starts at the top. If you prosecute a Lt. Call_ey. asyou should, then you work your way to the top and back down agam unt1l you have found everyone even remotely responsible. You throw~ Haldeman in jail and his boss with him. The Qoss especially. 
In this mstance, however. no one will be blamed. Everyone will write their nwmoirs and say how it was the other guys' fault. A nation wracked by torment and division. another nation burned to the ground with m 1lhons of refugees trapped in deadly political and military crossfire and rt>percusswns that w1ll echo the rest of the century ... and no one will be hPld responsible. no one will admit to the mistake and apologize. 
I lost a brother in Vietnam. I have no love for those who carried Viet­cong_ flags. But s_ince th?se most responsible will not ask for my family's forg1veness. I wlll not smgle out those least responsible. I do not forgive, but ne1ther do I condemn.Let them come home if they like or stay outside Iht> country •f they like. At this point it doesn't really matter. . What dot>s matter is learning from experience. I am currently enrolled tn t\r.my ~~,O.T r.' I.<:an only hope.that our nation· will learn from !his 
· ~x~rienc':. I am not ashamt>d or afraid of the responsibility,Qf bearing . . ttm-; lor th1s nation. Soldiering is an honorable prcfession when soldiers -att> Mrlotfll'ln··mt'rt 'I' 'lidp~· Wm~rica 's p()licy makers \\·ill.'in ihe' (uture~ ' ' tfkt> lht'lr moral o:harg•· as seriously as I jak"' r,.;~,e 

• 
Tuesday, April 29, 1975 
the observer 1 1 
alice cooper who sleeps with his nine iron 
bob kissel 

Alice Cooper? Isn't he that madman of freak-glitter rock who parades around on stage with snakes and guillotines and other tools of sensual shock? Well. yes. But then no. 
Alice Cooper-Vince Furnier, the dichotomy between performer and· man behind the performer is surrounded by the fantasia of does he really...? And so the interview with Alice Cooper began... 
"People make up their own little thing." stalt>d Alice-Vince, "I could bring a half inch worm on stagt> and by the time it got to the prt>ss it would be a nine foot python. 
"I nPver killed a chicken on stagt>. that's just one of many rumors that start somt>where. First of all I halt> glitter rock. I don't know who made that up...I don't P.\'t'll like shock rock. 

"I nPvPr liked tht> idea of calling Dali ·s paintings surrealism. Those lt>rms don't make much st>nse. I gu(•ss it was convenient. but com·tonienl for conversations at parties to call this or call it that. 
"I'd ratht>r call it show-biz rock <Alicl' Cooperl more than anything dse. And that's one thing the llnited Stales nf Amt•rica can rl'ally be proud of. is show-biz. 
"You have to realize the n•sponsibility of going on the road with a production like this. a stage show that cost four hundred thousand dollars. I believe in that Buzby Bt•rkeley primal scream production. 
"I love it. it's got to be so mormous for it to work. This ( Wt•lcome to My Nightmare) is a musical. really the first rock musical. becaus!.' it you think of it, "Hair" and "Jesus Christ Superstar" wt>ren't rock. 
"They called it rock music, but it really wasn't. It was more middle of lht> road. And "Tommy" never wt•nt on the road as a production. 
Psychology Society Sponsored Elections Haggar Hall Lounge May 1, H) A.M.•4 P.M. 
CALL FOR NOMINATIONS: 
L COORDINATOR-ANY PSYCH.SoC. MEMBER 
2. 
SEC-TREAS. -ANY PSYCH.. SOC~ MEMBER 

3. 
UNDERGRADUATE REPRESENTATlVE TO FACULTY MEETINGS ANY PSYCHOLOGY UNDERGRAD 


PLACE NOMINATIONS IN PSYCH SOCIETY BOX, HAGGAR HALL BY WED. APRIL 30-5 P.M.-INCL. NAME OF NOMINEE AND SIGNATURE OF NOMINATOR 
This is !he first time there has been 
a real Buzby Bt>rkely rock musical 
on the road as a production. 
"Our last show, the Billion Dollar Babies tour was an enor· ' mous production show. · It was a rock burlesque show and it workt>d. I had a great time doing that tour. It was a big party on the 
stage. 
·. "This show is the same type of 
thing. t>xcept for the fact that this 
time it's a concept. This is 
Stevt>n's nightmare. Steven is this · character that I play on stage. 
"En•rything in his room that he 
was secure with. his tory and toy 
box...If you wake up in the middle 
of a nightmare. and anything can 
happt>n in a nightmare. 
"Stevpn wakes up in the middle 
of his nightmare and his dothes 
are all ragged and ht> has this 
mak(•up on. His bed has turned 
into this grt>at big grt>en Gothic 
thing. with all these things out of 
his nightman• hanging all 0\'t'r. 
"Sudd(•nly his toy box opens and 
all of his toys are demons and 
thev'rp his size. And the demons 
chast> him all owr stage. Stt>ven 
has to cop(• with Pverything he was 
sPcun· with before he Wt>nl to 
sl{•t>p. 
''And ht> wak(•s up and lhP whole 
show is donP within his nightmare. 
And that's the concept of the show. 
It's n•ally fun. The audience is 
taken whPn they see a cyclops on 
stag{> or an enormous spid!.'r web 
built on stage. 
"I put m~·spJf in the audience's 
place. when I designt>d the show. if 
I wt>re going to be paying about 
st;>ven dollars to see a show. and 
I'in .a st>nsationalsit. what would I 
want to st>e'1 
"l got together the best. David 
Wirilt>rs who did "W<•st Side 
Stor~·." \H' auditiont>d dancers. we 
hahdpickPd thP musicians, and Joe 
(;annon. from lht> Liza l\linnelli 
show. doing tht> lighting. I wt•nt 
right to lht• pt>oplt> who really know 
staging. lhPn I told lht>m my full 
conct•pt. and told lht>m take your 
an•a and lh(•n dt>velop it. And 
thPrP's thP show." 
Do 1ht> crowds ( rt>cord numbers in l\t•w York. Los Angelt>s. and on) who pay lop dollars to see the Alice Coopt>r show rt>al1y go there for music or is it for the freak show aspPcl which surrounds the Alice <'nopt>r m~·stiqup? 
"I think W(' rt>prpsent the All­Anwrican Band. I rt>allv think that Alil;t> is n·allv lhP Ali-American boy. \\'(•n· a product of television and you'd lw surprised that on the Phil Donahue show and that's housewife rock. they were defending m(• by the tond of the show. 
"l'ht>y <1ht> housewifes l had never really had the opportunity to see the rt>al mt', that Alice Cooper is a character on stage. I'm not r(•ally Alice ofJ stage, in the same way that Bt•la Lugosi was not Dracula off stage. · 
"I love sensationalism, .but I . don't buy that Beatnick mentality that says that if you do something .. l'rt'alive, you cari't make money~ Because why not go out and do pt>rson and that's Burt Bachrach. 

something you believe in. You talk about values. well that's a 
"If I walk off stage and know I rebellious thing for me to say. If 
havt> done a good show, and I see you listen to Bachrach very 
the audience saying 'wow. that was dosely, you'll see that he does 
lht> greatest t thing I ever saw' and more complicated things than 
make fifty thousand dollars a Zappa or F:merson. Lake,· and 
show. Isn't that it, isn't that what Palmer. And he makes the songs 
we're all talking about? sound simplt>. which is even harder 
''I'm not going out ·_ and to do." 
prostituting myself. I know I'm And so the interview went on, 
doing a better show than even touching many areas. urbane to 
t•xpected. that's not out of ego, but lht> serious. The Alice Cooper 
the show's good theatrically. Carol 
Channing saw the show the other 
night and said it should be on 
Broadwav. 
"When' Alict> Cooper com(;'s to 
town. it's like the circus. It's a 
oncP a year ('Vt>nt. like Halloween. 
ThP audiPnce m•vt>r goes away 
without ha\'ing seen something, 
nPver disappointt>d. AI least when 
WP comt' to town. it's an P\'ent and 
1 likP that idea. 
"En•ryone makes up their own 
fantasy about the show. and that's 
part of it. I'm totally into fan­
tasizing. If you took ten kids and 
asked lh('m what happt•ned on 
stag(•. you'd get len differt>nt 
storit>s. 

··And that's good. It's just 
working on tht> 'ol imagination." 
Tht> curn•nt Alice CoopPr show 
will hit t•ighty cities for over Pighty 
shows. That nwans Pighty Holiday 
Inns. all the same. 
"If \'OU look around. how could I : IPII s,·lulh Bt>nd from Cincinatti? South lknd from Detroit? The guy who dt>signed this room is much. much sicker than l am. Look at this room. two tabh•she're; th(• 1\lasonite therP. An ht>'ll inake sun• that th(• painting is crooked.. 
"Anytim(' I gPI a day off I play golf. Probably a nPw rumor is that Alice CoopPr slet>ps with his pit­ching wPdgt•. The only tim(' I n•bel against signing autographs is on 1 th(• golf cnurst>. I'm totally an avid golfer. \\'lwn 1 play l n•ally look likP a golft>r. with cht•ekPred slacks. and Hanlon shirts. 
"1\Iusically I listt>n to only one 
touring group is a tight one. It has 
to be to survive the wear and ·tear 
of a siX" month lour. Alice Cooper­
Vincent Furnier is "Vinnie da 
Boss" and the rest are the family 
a Ia the Godfath!.'r. 
When we left Alice-Vinnie da 
Boss ht> was busily enPaged in 
another gamt> of golf ir hotel. chipping quarters into ._ oke can in tht> corner of the room. Just ·waiting for that next trip into the 
person of Alice Cooper. 



STORAGE SPACE FOR YOU 
The Morningside Hotel has rooms that are not renting and are available for keeping your personal items in a safe place until you want them in the FALL. 
Th(•att·rJ. 
Phone 233·7191 the Morningside Hotel and 
ask forlinformation 
Bring books, typewriters, chairs, 
apparel, TV's, rugs, misc., and remember items needing cleaning will be handled by. ZIKER CLEANERS._· 
-


Six good reasons to store your extra goods at The Morningside:' 
1. 
SENSIBLE: \\ ny lug or ship school items back and forth for the Fall. 

2. 
ECONOMICAL: l'(•nt as much space as you need, Much cheaper and better than other .. local storage methods·you do the h~ndling and paeking. Pay now and get . th(• days in 1\lay free. fo:ntire rooms $15-per month. partiels $5-&$10: .. : 3; SAFE: ...1•ach room is protecH;d by its own -key which is lt'ft at the desk and only 


·issut>d wi.th proper id~ntification. Hotel entry is supervised :N hours a . _·day', · 
4. _EASY: hring ih•ms at your torivt>nit'ri~e day or night. No mixups or fuss. . ~ou'rt• finisht>d using soint•thlng.bring it and repeat as you see fit. . 
6. CONVENIENT.: Pmmtown at Colfax and Williams St. < 2 blocks ~on'St of the Colfax' 
v. 
e "'
-
-
-
i 
Tuesday, April 29, 1975
12 the observer. 
Two U.S. Marines killed 

Final evacuation from Saigon begins 
\L\Sill N< ;T<lN nil'I l -The llous•• Wavs and l\lt•ans Com­mittt>t' a1;provl'd Monday a !!,asolim· tax incrPasP starting at thn•t• t·pnls a gallon but nsmg to 2:l •·•·nts if Americans don't n•duct> gasoline consump­tinn. 
Tlw dt•eision was tE>ntative and could ht• ehangPd as the 


·.I nllnmillt•t• goes ahead with prl'paring a comprehensivl' cm•rgy tax bill. 
Ttw \alPs! vt•rsion of the gasnlim• tax provision was mnn• •·omplt•x than an earlier proposal to impose a three-cent im-rt-asl' m•xt Jan. I thE>n 20 ··mts mort• in early 1977 if ~aso\im• ust• did not drop. 
Tht' jump would have been triggt•rpd if gasoline consump­tion was highPr in 1976 than in tht' hasp war 1973 -<:hosen lweaust• it ·was the last year hl'fort• lhP Arab oil Pmbargo. 
Tht• eommittee voted 21 to 13 l\londay to put the three-cent 
· Iax into l'fft>cl next Jan. I, and to inerPasP lhP tax on a rising scalP Pach year depending on tht• incn•asP in gas consump­tion. 
If eonsumption in 1976 was lt•ss than I pt•r ePnt above 1973, 
SAIGON (Lll'll United Stall'S llt'gan lht> final evacua­1 ion of Amt>ricans from Saigon TLwsday. t•nding two decades of din•ct ll.S. involvement in South Vietnam. 
llt>licoptl'rs and bust's carried Amt•ricans to pre-arranged t•vacuation points. Viet Cong commandos withdrew from the hasp's pt•rimeter. allowing Anwrit·an plant's to land, militarv sources said. 
,\ dt:vastating Communist air. rockPI ;1 rt illery. and infantry assaults on the base Monday dost>d Tan Son Nhut down for 12 hours. Two U.S. Marines w•·n· killt>d. the first Americans to dit> in combat in South \'it>lnam since December of 19n. 
In Washington. President Ford and St•crt>tary of State IIPnry Kissinger worked through the night on the final hours of an American role in the Vietnam war. The National St'l'Uritv Council was called into session unexpectedly Monday t•vt•ning and met for about an hour l'n•sidential aides would not eommt>nl. 
ttl'! eorrepondent Leon Dan-
Committee approves gasoline tax increase 
livt• t't'nls wouta oe aaqeo. n1aking a total incrE>asE> of E>ight 
cmts.  
For each additional ct•nt eonsumPd. anothE>r l'Pnts would lw added.  per five  

Thus if gasolinE> consumption was up in 1976 by 3 to 4 per l't'nt on•r 1973. motorists would pay lhP maximum 23 cents. 
Tht• committee is also work­ing on provisions that would givt• motorists 40 gallons of gas a month without the excess-use tax. and make somp other lTPdits availablP. 
Ways and !\leans Chairman AI tillman. who originally propost'd a :l7 cent increase in thl' gas lax. said. "We have a 
n·r~· workable. very intelligent approach to the problem This is a good compromise." 
But HPp. Joseph A. Karth. 0­l\linn. said. "I doubt this will product' the Pnd result we are looking for" of conserving ·gasolim· by ,forcing up the prict•. 
Ht•p. Barbt-r Conable. D-N .Y ., said. "This compromise is prim<trily political. We art> still putting our major reliance on the gasolim• tax. but we do not say wt• an• doing it." 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION PROUDLY PRESENTS 

' 
:. 
I \ 
' ' 
THE 


ALICE COOPER SHOW 
"WELCOME TO MY NIGHTMARE" 

~ 
~ 
I 
• 
' 
) t 
~ 
.) 
WHITEY GLAN

) 
STEVE HUNTER

) 
SUZI QUATRO
PRAKASH JOHN

1 
DICK WAGNER

<\ i
( ;' ._ 
TONIGHT 8:00 p.m.H NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC & CONVOCATION CENTER 
~ 
TICKETS AVAILABLE THROUGH 

< 
INTERMISSION AT A.C.C. PRIC~S: $7.00, $6.00, and $5.00 

,. 


it•! said he and other newsmen wt•n• leaving for their pre­arranged pickup points, but thl'ir destination was unknown. Tht•rt• wt>re about 954 Ameri­
cans  ll'fl  in  Vietnam  early  
Monday.  according  to  the  
Pentagon.  

Thl' I'Pntagon said in Wa­shington about 50 ships carry­ing ti.OOO Marines and more than 700 helicopters were stationed in the South China S!'a off Vietnam. 
Tan Son Nhut was open to military traffic, and jittery guards· Iurned back would-be t>vaeuePs who ignored a 24-hour curfew ordered on Saigon in a last-<iitch attempt to escape the country. 
The main galt's to the base wt•rt• sPaled off. 
AI Clark Air Base in the l'hilippint>s. a ll.S. Air Force spokpsman said evacuation flights. hai!Pd for 12 hours by Communist attacks. had resu­nwd. 
Communist pilots used Anwrican A:l7 Dragonfly fighter bomlwrs !'apturPd at Da Nang to bomb Tan Son Nhut Monday. It !'am!' shortly after a new pn•sidPnt. Duong Van "Big" 1\linh. was sworn in. llis first spPPch as presidt>nt appealing for a truct• was answt>red by all out Communist attacks on the Saigon perimetPr. 
During the Monday attack. thl' bast> was hit for the first tim!' with long-range 130mm artillt-ry fin• mixE>d with 122mm roeket and .mortar rounds. The shellfire touched off fires that illuminated the pre-dawn skies over thP !'apital and sent thick columns ·of. smoke into the air. Two governmPnl propeller­drivt>n bombers were shot down. apparently by hand-held SAi ground-to-air missiles. 
The attacks on the Saigon air base died down as suddenly as they flared up. 
Military sources said a Viet Cong regimt•nt of unknown strength withdrew Tuesday morning to a command post at Tan Tru Trung village on Highway 1 about 10 miles north of Ihe base. They earlier ovt•rran two government ranger battalions in the area, the· sources said. 
The forward Viet Cong positions wt>re in an arc two miles norlhwt>sl to north of the base. the sources said. Two battalions of crack South \"ietnamt•se special forces. paratroop and infantrymen moved out in an attempt to secut·t• 1ht• art>a. 
Dt•spilt' the military moves by both sidt•s. Minh's govern­nwnt appean•d conciliatory. 
Broadcasts over the official 
Hadio Saigon Tuesday referred 
to tht• North Vietnamese and 
nt't l"ong as "our brothers of 
tht' otht'r side.. instea$1 of "the 
Communists.·· Minh vowed 

Monday after he took over the presidency to attempt to negotiate an immediate cease­firt> and to try to get peace talks resumt>d. 
St·nior South Vietnamese offi­cials continued to flee the country in the hours before the Communists attacked Tan Son Nhut and before battles with govt>rnment troops on the outskirts of thE> capital. 
The U.S. Mission closed down the Brink billet in downtown Saigon and removed six bus­loads of Americans. They apparently were taken to Tan Son Nhut. 1\lililary sources said South \"ietnam·s highest ranking mili­tarv officer. Joint Chief of Staff Ch<;irman Gt•n. Cao Van Vien. and an unspecified numbE>r of otht•r st>nior officE>rs. fled the country aboard \'ien's private 1'47. a propE>IIer-driven cargo plam•. (io\·t>rnmt•nt sources said PrimP 1\linistt>r Nguyen Ban Can fled the country without formally turning over powers to his successor. \'u \'an Mau. 
THE BIKE RACK 
TUNE-UP NOW FOR SPRING PARTS &SERVICE ON ALL AMERICAN AND 
FOREIGN-MADE BIKES 
lOCATED ONE BLOCK EAST OF THE DISTillERY ON RD. 23 IN GREENWOOD SHOPPING CTR 
OPEN 9:30-6:30 DAILY MONDAY·SATURDAY 277-1391 
~----~--------------------­
1 STILL HUNTING FOR AN I !APARTMENT FOR NEXT YEAR ri 
I CAMPUS VIEW ONE AND TWO I
I BEDROOM FURNISHED APARTMENTS I I LOOK WHAT WE I I HAVE TO OFFER: I 
I I I I I * 2 TENNIS COURTS I
I (to be completed this summer} I 
I * INDOOR SWIMMING POOL II * COMMUNITY BUILDING I
I (complete with pool tables and pinball machine) 1 1 * DEAD-SOL T LOCKS I 
I * EXCELLENT SECURITY I I * BASKETBALL COURT * SHAG CARPETING I I * 2 BATHS 2 -BEDROOM DISHWASHERS I
I APTS. IN THE . ...-""-I I * SOUND CONDITIONED * PRIVACY I I * REGULAR SOCIAL ACTIVITIES * LAUNDRY FACILITIES I I I
1NOW RENTING FOR SUMMER AND FALL SEMESTER I I ('75 -'76 SCHOOL YEAR) I
I I
FOR RENTAL INFORMATION CALL 272-1441 
LCAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS I 
------~------------------· 
····' • ":"1" •.•••••. ... I ' ~••J ... ,.... • • • :-·I 
Tuesday, April 29; 1975 
the ooserver 13 
Leading economic indicators drop 
WASHINGTON <UPD -An indt>x that foreshadows future economic trends fell again in !\larch but a top government t>conomist said Monday this doesn't cloud the outlook for an t>arly end to the recession. 
The Commerce Dt>partment announced its Index of Leading Economic Indicators dropped 
0.5 per cent last month. the seventh decline in the last eight months. 
bePn the only increase since August. 
Assistant CommPrce Secre­tary Jamt>s L. Pate said neither the up nor down movement mPans very much. 
·'Thf' present index has very I i m i I t> d significance." Pate said. "It's not a very reliable indicator." 
This. ht• said. is because many of tht> 12 indicators that eomprise the composite index arf' bast>d on price movements. 

heavy. such as has occurred tor the past two years. 
As a remedy. the department will publish a revised index in !\lay. replacing many of the price indicators with a series that measure volume of produc­tion. 
Pate added that the March decline "is not inconsistent with bottoming out <of the recession l in the second quarter and n•coverv in the second half of the vear." 
usually want to see three or four months of a steady increast> before proclaiming the imminent end of a business slump. 
Consumer installment debt dt>crt'ased sharply last month and contributt>d the major part of the overall March decline in thP index. 
A propensity to save rather than spt>nd on credit is eonsidt>red a bad sign for the Pconomy as a wholt>. 
wt>re: length of the average work Wf'ek. new durable goods ordt>rs. building permits and the price-labor cost ratio. 
Tht> four-month rally on Wall Street has bolstered stock prices and helped the plus-side of lht> index. Others increasing in March were industrial matt>rials prices. contracts and orders for plant and t>quipmf'nL 
Nt'w daims for unemploy­m(•nt insurance fell for the month. but that is considered a 
ers 
~-
The index rebounded 0.6 per This tmds to distort the index M;lst economists predict a cent in f<'<'bruary but this has whPn inflation is unusually similar scenario and are at odds only over whether the n•cowry will be sustained or wht•tht>r the t•conomy will ~hoot
l JaDles EarI Ray0ff ahead and then slump agam m 197(i.
'.,. newa 1 se~:~!.~~71 i~cot~:m~nd:xas w~~~gi~~~ 
would indicate better times 
NASH\"ILLE. Tenn. <UPil -"lk said ht> had been ahf'ad. 
JamPs I<:arl Hay claims he was involved in smuggling across Howt'vf'r. a one-month rise. 
driving south through Mississip­tht> hordPrs ht>twet>n Canada such as February's. can be a 
pi to New Orleans when he and lht> llnited States and tht> false alarm. and economists l<'arned Dr. l\lartin Luther King ll.S. and Mexico." the newspa­
EUROPEAN CAR RENTALS 
. Jr. had lwen killed. a Nashville pt•r said. 
RENT YOUR CAR IN HOLLAND 
newspaper rt>ported Monday. "Wt>'d put the packages 
THIS YEAR AND REALLY SAVE. 
msid(' Iires and just drive 

VW or Fiat only $9.00 per day IN­
The Nashville Banner repor-. 
across the border." Hay was 

CLUDING 100 free KM's daily.
ted. howt-ver. that Hay. convict­
C]Uoted as saying. "If you 

Larger cars/campers at similar sav­
Pd of killing King. admitted in 
slippPd tht' (border> agents a 

ings. MINIMUM RENTAL AGE 18. 
an interview that he purchased 
dollar or two. they'd let you go 

HILTON and MARRINGA
tht> rifle used in the assassiila­
right on through." 

826 Marin, Vallejo, Ca. 94590 
1ion of the civil rights leader, and admitted to being in the 1\h>mphis. TPnn .. rooming house from which the fatal shot was fired in 1968. as King stood on the balcony of a motel. 
But Hay claimed in the interview that ht> left the rooming house at lt>ast an hour heforP King was slain. 
Hay. who is currently serving a \19-yPar prison term. told the BannPr that he did not become alarmt>d until ht• heard on his 
~-. 
car radio that authorities were looking for a white l\lustang. lht> ~amt• kind of car he was driYing through Mississippi. 
··J dt•l'idt>d to go on to Atlanta lhPn instt>ad of Nt'W Orleans." lhP rwwspaper quoted Hay as ~aying. "I km•w I was in lrouhh• if lh<'y stopped lht> car I 11 as in." 
Tlw Bannt'r quotl'd Hay as sa~·ing lw JliPadl'd guilty to King·s murdl'r to st>ver rt>la­lions with attornt>y l'Prcy Ftln'man. and bt>eaus(' he thought ht• could present enough nPw t>videnct> "within about i1 y('ar" to win a nt>w trial. 
:\ pf'tition filt•d by Hay for a m•w 1rial was rejeCted f'arlit>r this n•ar bv a l\lemphis U.S. llistri.ct Cou-rt. and is now on appl'al to tht> lith lJ .S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Cincinnati. Tht• Jwtition claims . Hay was eoPrced into plt>ading guilty by his attorm·vs and thf'rt>fort> did not n•ct>iV<' ·a fair triaL 
Tht> Banm·r said Hay indicat­ed ht> was in l\h•mphis in eonnPction with a smuggling opt>ration that may havt> involved drugs or countt>rfeit mont•y. 
THE RESUME PLACE 
25 8 1/2xll 

RAG BOND ONLY 
$2.55 insly·prints· 
203 N. MAIN 
SO.BEND, IND 
289-6977 
Othf'r indicators declining favorablt' sign . 

Celebrate • Pre Exams -All mixed drinks­
50~ 

large Pizzas $2.00 
TONIGHT 
Whybuyaneconomysystem whenyoucangetPioneer atthisunbelievablylowprice. 
List Price PIONEER SA-9100 amplifier 449.95 SA\'E 25 percent 
PIONEER TX-9100 tuner 349.95 SA\'E 25 percent PIONl.:I.·: R SA-8100 amplifier 349.95 SA\' E 25 percent * PIONEER TX-8100 tuner 249.95 SA \"E 25 percent 
SIIERWOOn S-7310 receiver 379.95 SA\'E 25 percent 
PIONEER R-300 speaker 119.95 SA\'E 25 percent 
SHERWOOD S-7010 receiver 189.95 SA\'E 25 percent PIONEER SA-7100 amplifier 249.95 SA\' E 25 percent * SIIE RWOOD S-7210 receiver 299.95 SA\'E 25 percent PIONEER TX-7100 tuner 199.95 SA\'E 25 percent 
QUANTITIES LIMITED SALE ENDS SAT. OR WHEN STOCK DEPLETED 
*25% off of this amplifier only if purchased with any tuner in our stock 
Audio S~ecialists 
415 North Michigan 234-5001 
(NOTE OUR NEW ADDRESS) 
3-~~~---~.~~' ~~ 
9
.~ --· Jt t; ~-; ~-;,-~ ·~~ 



; f • '~ • i • ' • '' •• •• . • \ I:
••-. • ... '
' 
.. 

-... -•. ~ .. 1 •• , ' •• ~ •• ' • ' ' • 
~ ~ " .. .. .. .. .. . . . .
~ 

----.----------------------~----------------------­
. . _, 
. L'.• ·.<;·.~:-(,! .C!t ,-_q, ·>·''''-~ •'t:1W~I.lf Tuesday; Aprll'29, 1975
14 the ·observer 
Hold hostages 

Guerrillas seize Israeli consulate 
JOHANNESBURG !UPl) -building. Armed guerrillas, some of them 
They said three hostages, 
Japanese, took over the Israeli including an Israeli security 
ronsula te Monday, seized nine 
officer. were wounded when the men. women and children 
guerrillas shot up the consulate. hostage and threatened amid A doetor treating the hostages bursts of machine gun fire to 

reported the captors had wired blow up the building unless the explosives and hand grenades \ Israeli ambassador negotiated to their prisoners. with them. 
Prime Minister John Vorster Police reported at least two told Parliament the South ·l ~ ( pt>rsons killed and more than 30 African governm£>nt would not injured when the guerrillas negotiate with the guerrillasi sprayed bullets into lunchtime under any circumstances. Isra­
\ 
eli Ambassador Yitzhak Unna
crowds in the streets below the

\ 
refused to enter the consulate\ downtown Johannesburg office as the gunmen demanded. 
fifth-floor consulate office in a 

\ 
' Federal agency funded
I 
' 
newbirth control program 
Washington l'PI The· and Welfare where it was unable to dl'funt'l Office of Economic obtain continuation funds. ( lpportunity provided $97,000 for "lt · was a program in poor two years to send birth control taste." said Dr. Louis Hellman. information and sometimes con­HEW's chief family planning of­doms to teen-age boys through the ficer. H£> said HEW received mail, program officials said letters of complaint from mothers Monday. ·of some of the boys who received 
Initially directed at low income unsolicit£>d condom discount high school boys in Cleveland, coupons, booklets entitled The I'hiladelphia and selected rural Man's World and letters asking, areas in 13 states, the condom "Has one of your friends made a subsidy and sex information girl pregnant recently?" service was expanded during its The mailings, from lists second year to include boys · in provided by a private mail order 


service, offered condom couponssmi:lller cities and high school worth $1 toward the purchase of aathletic coaches. 
package of condoms either at at<:\:entually, the program ran out drug store or through the mail.
of ·federa1 funds, and official ex• The overwhelming proportion ofpired in July 1973 but program. 
the 250 or so boys who actuallyofficials say it could have ac· ordered condoms did so throughcomplished big things in providing themail, bypassing the network of sex ·education by mail. 
druggists set up to redeem the;'You bet it worked/' aid Dian~ stamps.

-~ 
Altm;m, programming director for In the program's first year,Population Services Inter.nation, 
-condom subsidies were provided to

~ 
the .Chapel Hill, N:C., firm that ·.183 young men who purchased 2640operated the program with OEO

. ) condoms, said Jane savage of the
funds. · ' North Carolina firm. Antoher 64"W£> w£>re proposing to expand i.t 

boys asked for seconds on theto young males and females in the subsidies.
millions, to one of the largest sex "Some guys would go around the ('<iucation programs going," she neighborhood gathering up unused 

said in a telephone interview. coupons," she said.:; A U.S. Postal Service official · Aside from the condoms, in­-said th£> agency's headquarters 
formational booklets were sent to here was unaware of the mail nearly 60000 boys aged 14-19 and 

:_
; ~~ }'. operation. He said postal . more than 10,000 high school . } coaches and gym instructors, a
regulations and federal statutes ! • prohibit. us£' of the mails for un~ 
few of whom ordered condoms 
solicited advertising or 

themselves, the program officials , said.
distribution of eontrac£>ptive ~ { materials except to manuafarc Program aides were unable to turers , doctors or other medical provide a list of all the medium 
1•.(1 
~·' 
personnel. sized cities covered in the The .postal spokesman the mailings, but said that the 13 states agency's inspection service would in which rural teen age boys begin an investigation to see if any received condom coupons and

) 
postal laws were violated. · · booklets were Colorado, Kentucky, 

) 
Started at OEO, the former Maine, Massachusetts, Nt>braska, 

.. ~ ·antipoverty agency, the direct N£>w Mexico, Ohio, Oregon, mail ·effort was transferred to· Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas, Departm£>nt of Health, Education Vermont and West Virginia. 
i 
FAMILY NIGHT AT BURGER CHEF 

TUESDAY 4-8 PM 

'\ 
REGULAR  SPECIAL  
89¢  74¢  
79¢  65¢  
40¢  28¢  
79¢  59¢  
89¢  65¢  
40¢  28¢  

\ 
Roast Beef Sand. 
Ham & Cheese 


Cheeseburger Big Chef 
Super Chef Fun-Burger 

Tl.e Israeli cabinet met in an emergency half-hour session in Jerusal£>m and Unna said his governm£>nt ordered him not to go into the building. 
. Israel· always has refused to comply with demands of guerrillas attacking its facilities outside its borders and has storm£>d buildings seized by guerrillas inside Israel, no matter· the number of hostages. 
Police said some of the guerrillas were Japanese but did not specify to what organization. if any, they belonged. 
Johannesburg newspapers speculated that the others might be Arabs, but in Beirut the leading Palestinian guerril­la organizations, which have carried out such attacks in the past, refused to comment. 
A Jewish doctor identified only as Gottlieb stripped to his underpants and was permitted into the consulate. 
He reported by walkie talkie to police outside that the gunmen had threatened to. kill the (wo children held hostage and he aske(i for morphine, blood and _water to be sent inside. 
Gottlieb's . message ·ended abruptly as .he told how the gunmen were .tying explosives and hand grenades to .the other · captives. ·.. . . · 
Police tnar~smen. with. rria­
. . . 
. . . 
SMC announces election policy 
Nominations for hall president and vice-president and student • assembly representatives must be submitted by midnight, Friday,. May 2, according · to Kathy Carrigan, election commissioner. 
Elections for thes~ J)ositions will 
be held Tuesday, May 6, between 
10 am and 6 pm in· L£>Mans Hall. 
The candidates for hall president and vice-president rriust run as one ticket. Carrigan said. The position of hall president is a salaried one, to be determined by the hall. 
The studen.t assembly representatives, consisting of 5 from L£>mans, · ihree from McCandless, and three from HPgina, must attend bHnonthly mPetings .and . partiCipate in decision-making·· for student government. 
Carrigan also explained that platforms must be submitted to her by 8 am Saturday, May 4. Platforms .are explained in the £>lectiorr. rules, :which can be ob­tained .frotn Car)'igan in 433 LeMans, 4949..· · · · 
Fix your own burger the way you
Two locations . . like it at our new Works Bar. 1716 N. Ironwood 'H~lp your~lf to let~uce, tomatoes, 
hl 
·omons, rehsh and p1ckles. Ifmustard and catsup are all you want, it's there529 2 0 U S • 31 N for you too. Have as much or as little as
• 0 rf 

• you want at the Burger Chef Works Bar(at Cleveland Rd.) ...andbuildyourburgerjusttheway 
you want it., 
chine gun emplacements on nearby rooftops fired into the office where the attackers were holed up but held their fire wh£>n the guerrillas held the children up to a window as human shields. 
The guerrillas set one dead­line for Unna to negotiate terms for release of the hostages, but the deadline passed without incident. Unna arrived from Cape Town and waited outside the building. 
Police fulfilled one of the gunmen's first demands and lit up the streets outside. They sent walkie talkies in to the guerrillas for negotiations. 
At one point a policeman with a loudspeaker shouted up to the guerrillas: "If you want to negotiate, put out a white flag.~· 
Th£> m£>n inside answered with a hail of bullets and the officer fled. 
Later, oxygen and other m<>dical supplies in a red box were hoisted up by rope. 
Vorster told Parliament the 


gunmen £>ntered the building Sunday and hid there overnight. They rounded up employes arriving for work Monday morning and later opened fire in the consulate. 
There were intermittent gun battles during the afternoon. Police cordoned off the entire area in the downtown business center. A bank opposite the consulate had dozens of win­dows shattered. 
Mike Jeffries. who was in the crowd below the consulate, said he dove for cover when the gun battle £>rupted and was only slightly wounded. 
"I just heard shots, then felt pain. God, I was lucky," he said. stubbing two fingers through his bullet-scarred jack­£>!. 
"I ran for my life. I had no idea where the bullets were coming from. just a burning s£>nsation in my stomach. I can't even get my car. It is still in the line of fire," Jeffries said. 
f""""'.nPANAVISION"a<ld MEffiOCOLOR 
Tonight & tomorrow night 8 and 10 pm Engineering Aud 
Admission $1.00 Patrons free 

Tuesd;ay, April 29, 1975 
the observer 
15 
WANTED 

Desperate.ly need ride to New Haveri, Conn. ·s & driving. Call Celia 4552 · · 
Need 1 filing cabinet or anything close · Ca II Bill 6710 
Wanted: Car to North Texas. or Dallas-Ft. Worth area lo take personal beli:Jng·ings home. Call . Kathy 1291 · 
Nee.d ri.de to Boston (Framingham) atter: exams-Call Jim 8504 
Riders wanted :·leaving May 12 for Bethesda Md. Returning to ND campus on 16tti for graduation. 283·6309; call late · · 
Need ride to Dayton· .Call 1200 end of semester 
Riders  wanted:  leaving  an  May  
19th  (after  graduation)  tor  
California. 283-6309 ·  
Desp·erately  need  .ride  to  New  

Haven, Conn. or vicinity May 13·16 Share S Celia 4552 
Students tor· light office work & telephone sales, salary & com. mission. Apply 224 W. Jefferson, corner of Lafayette St. Room 313 
Student for light delivery, ex­cellent pay A.A.A. Advertising. Apply 224 W. Jefferson corner of Lafayette St. Room 313 
FOR SALE 

1972 Pinto new cam.shaft 19,000 m i I es. phone 8854 
Two Alice Cooper tixs 4th row, at cost Mike 1850 
Olds' Cutlass '67 small engine, good mileage & 8 track tape. S500. New Remington 12 gauge pvmp magnum $120 Call 284·4008 or 234· 8679 
Piano for sale by off campus senior. SlOO or best otter. Call Ted 289·1775 
Must sell NOW ·2 speakers, turn. table, 80 watt receiver, all Pioneer equipment, 9 months old, perfect condition. Price negotiable. Call Denny 1052 
Slereo Panasonic· portable, ex. cellent condition inexpensive. 
Best offer Call Mary 7953 
2 Lafayette 3 way speakers S70 Call John 288 7637 
~----­

Piano tor Sale upright Highest bidder. Call Mary or ·Ja~et 6985 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
Green, yellow, orange and white­

Management Trainee 
2 Bedroom tvrnished apartment .at
flowered bedspreads (2), war. To $14,000 Campus View for summer.· Rentdrobe drapes, window curtains. Ready for a new career? We are 
negotiable. Call 277 0003 · · 
Also 2·tone green shag rugs. (3x5, interviewing for a management2x3). Call 7960 
training program that will allow 
2. rooms Private $50. !<itchen, 
you to earn $25,000 or more rn 5 
rides. 233 1329 
years while representing our topNOTICES team of financial specialists in 
Student home ·furnished four 
Always the best in gas sales and Equities, Insurance, . Mortgages bedroom·· near Notre. Da.me. mechanical work now at Tom's and Tax Shelters. Send your 
Available 23rd ol May or ·AlJ9u.st.. 
University Standard, corner of resume' to · Phone 1533 9665 · · · 
. .

Ironwood and State Rd. 23. 10 Charles M. Newoanks -·----··--"--__,___ percent discount to NO & SMC 120 W. LaSalle Suite 906 . By owner :i bedroom bi.feV~I Al. · 
students on all purchases except South Bend, 1N 46601 
condition large finished rec room, 
gas. 

cenhal air, fenced backyard.
ST. LOUIS CLUB TRUCK 
Urir:Jer S300.oo 2325 E.. Fair Oa!<s.·. 
SHARE holline. Phone 4311 8·12 Leave the hassle to· us.· Our· prices Niles, Mich: 684.0621 · nightly. Completely confidentiaL are: bikes $7, trun.ks· $6, footlockers. $5, suitcases. $4, boxes 5~;-;,~";;-r~-~~;i3~b;dro6~ house;.' · 
DINTY MOORE FAMILY PICNIC and other items Sl per cubic foot. · 
furnished, corner of Notre· Da·me After Blue Gold Garne. 4th BP For into•malion and reservations 
Ave. &Wayne St. Rent negotiable.. call Pat at 8640 or 8652 Call 288 2825 · · ·· Typing, editing, dissertation -~ --·---·---;._--'-.-.,-,--~.:...: specialists 1BM. special symbols. Typing done $.35 per page. Carbon Need a place· for su,:,.;mer? Fur· Linda's Letters 289.5193 copy $.05 per page extra. Call 272. 
nished full houses or single· rooms · 
5549 and ask tor Dan 
at·a discount rate. Walk to. The new Bob Segar album now at campus. Ca.ll 233 261;1 · Boogie Records, College Square 
All Private 3 rooms up for Married Mishawaka. 
Graduate Student. All utilities, 
Ho.use· for rent for next ·school· 
near Memorial Hospital. No.rent in 
·year. Fully furnished, w comptefe
STUDENTS: Don't throw away all return tor aiding parents to help baths, close to campus, · 5 those things that you don't want or 
lift lightweight son and daughter to 
bedrooms. $280 per month. 233 2613 refuse to carry homec Charitable 
and from wheelchairs, etc. No Organization wants your discards. 
nursing 232 9128 
Summer storage for dependable
Free pick.up. Call 2728333 after ------service call us! South Bend S:JO & will arrange to take those BLOCK PARTY SATURDAY storage, free pick up at your room 
items off your hands. 

MAY 3, 4:00 p.m.-1 :00 a.m. AT and tree delivery to dorm. Boxes CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS. $5, trunks. foot lockers or bil<es $6. 
OVERSEAS JOBS· Australia, MUSIC BY TALISMAN AND FAT Call 233 2613 · Europe, S. America, Africa. 
CHANCE. ALL NO & SMC Students all professions and OC· 
STUDENTS INVITED. AFTER CABINS ON LAKE MICHIGAN cupations $700 to $3000 monthly. THE BLUE·GOLD GAME, COME FOR RE:N.T Expenses paid, overtime, sight ON OVER. JUST 3 BLOCKS EAST Only 30 mm. from campus.seeing. Free information 
OF CARTIER FIELD. GINTARAS RESORT 15860 Lake TRANSWORLD RESEARCH 
Shore Rd. Union Pier. Mich. 616· 
Dept. F3, Box 603, Corte Madera, 

469 3298 Calif. 94925 
FOR RENT 

House for rent, 1 mile from NY Met Club Baggage truck to Now renting Campus View campus. ready tor immediate L.L·NYC: Call 3007 or 1986 for Apartments. Still some choice 1 occupancy. 233 6438 information and 2 bedroom apartments 
available. Call 272-1441 tor in. Summer storage. Dry, Clean, Safe, formation or stop over and see the LOST & FOUND Reasonable rates. Pick up & model apartment at S4S8S Irish delivery at dorm. Call Mrs. Cooper Way. Lost Wire frame glasses in 
a 
2723004 

black leather case between Furnished-House & apartments & Morrissey & Sorin. Call 8705 Accurate fast typing. $.50 page. small house near NO. Summer 
Close to ND. 232·0746 only 272 6174 Lost· Brown w1re rim glasses, between D I & Cavanaugh Please 
Brewster McCloud is winging his 

Apt. to rent tor summer. Approx. 1 call 1503 way to Notre Dame April 29 and 30 mile from campus 2 bedrooms. 288·5083 5 pm 7 pm Lost jacket navy blue with wordS THE CHEAP TRUCK IS BACK CYO Camp Christina Staff. 7854 
offering the lowest prices for 

Furnished Apt. 503 W. Jefferson reward. baggage to Long Island. Our Duplex 3 rooms second floor. Gas 
Prices are: Trunks $6, suitcases. 

heat, furnished. 289 6307 or 234·0596 PERSONALS 
$4, boxes S3, bicycles $6, golf clubs S3.50. For information call 

FOR SUMMER RENTAL Individuals interested '" workingLeo at 1152 ·· S2 deposit required. 
Large 4 bedroom furnished house on the food coop call student govt. near Jell Eddy. Big lawn 2 baths, ottices 7668 before Tuesday April
HOUSE PAINTING: 

washer. dryer, vtilities. $175. 234 29
Two experienced painters 
1972 
(students graduated) will paint Join Now Save Laterinterior.exterior. Very reasonable. 

Three Bedroom house close to ND Join Notre Dame's first Food·Call 234 18~9 for free estimate May ~ 5 to Aug 15. Carpeted & Clothing RPcord Coop Starting paneled, l1ving room complete Wed enioy 50 percent off charterPittsburgh Club Luggage Truck 
kitchPn washer & dryer, all membership tees Call the Om loading "'·'Y 12·13, details posted utilit;<'·s tncluded. Sl50 per month. budsman 7638 or Stud<ent Go~t 
soon. lnfc .:.671. 8414 

,Call Mrs Cooper 272 3004 7668 ~or• more details 

MI.NC:AM.EN will rule the world! 
i~ar. An'n, · · 

Cheer.up·and get well soon! A 
__,.:. :.-: L-.--·--·~------------­Ct>ngratufa.tions. and good luck to all the g·raduating Observer Staff members,· MY .love and prayers go 
· with·yol1. · · ''Mom"· 

-_:~.-:.._ ~-.-·-· --~ ...:...., -------. Need your srufl ·shipped to Boston ilrea? Call Milt 1986 or Bob 1972 tor 
. · informatior'i · · 
ciearo Mamoo; . 
· PJease · 'let ·me l<;eep runt. He's · real(y ·a·. ritcec.rat. After aiL rats :have feelings too · . Yout.. lovirig ·da.ughter 
. . -. . -~-·---·~---·­
s~dal'\v·: Old..Man. Have a Happy Blrthday. Harvey:· ··... 
. Karen,· ·· · · . . : .· · Still th.inkmg· of you, loving you. But why don't you ·write to Mutty someday? ·She·loves you, too. Tom 
ca·mille, Amy, Liz. Meme & Carol, Congratulations on qualifying Notre Dame ·tor the Women's National ·colleg,ate Sailing Championships Good Luck in Chicago 
Amy You deserve a gold star for sailing this weekend, but Nationals ""11 I be as tough as you are If you need a lesson or two call 8312 
Mellon. Sorry to have m•ssed your 20th Btrthday Sunday, but there are prom1ses of bigger and better things yet to come. Pink Alligator 
Know what' I Love You! Now don'I forget , t J.D 
Thanks to the boys who changed 
my t1re •n the parking lot on .Friday Sincerely,· 
· The Maid 

TO THE KNITE KNOCKER, QUIT KNOCKING & OPEN THE DOOR TO YOUR IDENTITY. S.M. 
ME. 1 hope your Btrthday was enioyed and most of all H A ILY 
Jim 

Thanks to all Grace residents who contributed to !he annual charity dnve. We collected over uoo for S charitoes. 
LaCrosse club beats Hillsdale 15-6 
b_v Grt>gg Bangs 

In Lacrosse Circles, the Hillsdale College lacrosse season is better known as spring training for the football team. Although the team possesses a few good stickhan­dlers. there is always an abun­dance of interior linemen who seem to equate a score with a good hit. This tends to lead to a rough gamP with a lot of penalties. If pt>naHies were the deciding factor in a gamP. Hillsdale would've won Sunday's contest with the ND lacrosse dub 16·13. Goal-wise, it was another story as the Irish took it to their hard-hitting opponents 
Hich Caron scored the fir!'t two goals it• whatwas to be an 11 point first half for Coach Rich O'Leary's stickmt>n. Both of Caron's unassisted dforts camP in the first lhrPP minutt>s of the gamP. Kevin FogPrty would score .3 out of the 1wxt 4 Irish goals off offt'! ds from Bob Thibodeau. Joe 1\tt'.:res and 
ND rugby team 
conquers Chicago playt>d. but youhavetobesurt>as ~ 
<t·nnlinut'll fnnn pagf' Wl 
organizt>d for thP ND .'C''s. most of \\'hom nt>vPr had played rugby until this spring. 
:'\t>xt Saturday ND hosts· the 
Spartans of l\lichigan State. 
"This will be our third con­SPcuti\'{' match aga.inst a strong sidP and ~tlso the last gamt' for many seniors." noted s('riior Milch \\'ilkt'S. 
Tht• gamPs nt>xt weekend will bt> playPd on tht• fi(•lds behind Stepan. !)(•ginning at one·o'clock. Tht>re is no charge and Pn•rs<me is invitt>d. 
Don Trabert, respectivt>ly. In between Fogerty's spree, Pat Clynes would score his first varsity goal off of a Paul Rizzo feed. Dave Ernst scored Hillsdale's lone goal. 
The second quarter brought more of the same as the Irish would rack up 5 more goals. Jim 1\tcEntee. Tom McHugh, Steve Tarnow. Paul Rizzo and Bob Thibodeau all hit the nets. Jim 1\lartin scored the lone Hillsdale goal off an Ernest feed. 
1\lartin and Ernst would also be responsible for the other four Hillsdale scores, as 1\lartin 

New coaches happy 
\t'lmtimwd from p<tgt• 16) 
awart> totally of things today," .lohnsojn says. "Physically the playPrs an• bigger. stronger, and fastt>r, but mt>ntally. in my day. football lt>ndt>d to bt> more a guy's whole world. it was blind motivation. Now, tht' kids respond and rPact the samt• way as wht>n I 
t·oach that they understand why. 
Ed l'hlebt>k is the only new coach not formerly associatt>d with Dan Dt•vint•. i~t> graduatt'd from \\'t•stt>rn 1\lichigail in 1963 and had a hrit>f stint with the Nt>w York .Jl'ls, liP then coached at Wt>stern and· Eastt>rn 1\lichigan. tht> Con­lint>ntal Football League. and tht' \\'nrld Football Lt•agut>, before contacting Dt>vint> about an npming lwrt> at Notrt' DamP. 
"I knpw of his ( Devint>'s l reputation as both a collt>ge and pro coach. and :'liotre Dame's n•putation as a grt>at football and acadPm ie schooL It's a grt>a t atmospht>rt> to raise a family in 

and I likt> it." 
Chlt•bt>k points to tht> Irish's 
national image as it's 
rlist inguishing charactt>ristic in the 
n•alm of collegiate football. 
"Tiwrp's a widt>r scopt>." he says. 
"!\lost sehools art> known well in 
onP st•ction of tht> countrv but 
:\otrt> Damp has much ·~ore 1 
national appt•aL" 
Chlebek is handling t~t' spt•cialty '(: IPams lor l>evmt> and 1s happy so · tar with his t>xperienct' at tht> school. ''I'm \'t'ry satisfied." ht> says. "I likt> coaching, the kids art> \t'ry dedicatPd, and thPre's a fine football tradition ht>re. I'm vt>rv t'ager for lhP fall and the rpguair spason to arrivt>." 
Trying lo maintain a tradition is not an Pasy 1ask. espt>cially a tradition as impressive as that of :'\otn• llamp footbalL 1'\t>w Head Coach Dan l>t•vint> brought a little lwlp with him as hP tacklt>s the job. and his frit>nds don't want to let him down. 
picked up 3 and Ernf'st one. The four remaining ND goals were scored by Tarnow, Fogerty, Caron and jay Williams. Williams once again had a good day facing-off as he won 17 of 22 attempts. Irish goalie Jim Scarola also performed wt>lL racking up 12 saves. 
Tht> club will finish out its '75 season with 3 games this week. The "A'' team will meet Purdue oat Stepan Fields on Wt>dnesday at 
4:00 pm. On Saturd:.ty, the "B" team will meet Miami of Ohio at IUlO am at Stepan and the "A" team will meet the Chicago Club in the Stadium following the Blue-: Gold football scrimmage. . Elections for the upcoming 
·year's officers.. were. held last week. Junior Bob Thibodeau will rt:-place outgoing senior Rich Caron as President and Sophomore Jay Williams will ·replace Thibodeau as vice-president. John Fatti and Don Trabert were elected co-captains. 
TIMM PARTY STORE 
OPEN Mon-Sat 9:00 A.M.-11 :00 P.M. Sun 12:00-11:00 P.M. 
PACKAGE LIQUOR AVAILABLE 
COLD BEER, WINE, GOURMET FOODS 
3114 S. 11th St. Niles, Mi. 
683-9875 
NOW 
NEON CAT 
AND 
'sOUTH SHORE 
~Sizula ~ 

NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS on U.S. 31 Mtwetn !lies. So. B•d-frM l'lrtin&·613-4350 
BUSINESS 
OPPORTUNITY 
GoocfPotential Income No Age Barrier Full or Part Time Contact D. A. Doxie 503 N. Blaine Ave. South Bend, IN 
(219) 234-4469 
.. 


Tuesd•y, April 29, 1975
16 the observer 

New coaches feeling at 

bv Bill Brink 
Spm·ts Editor 
Wht•n vou movf' into a new neighborhood. it's nicer if you bring somP old frif'nds with you. 
Ask Dan l>Pvine. He did it. and it SPPms to be working out just fine. l'sht>ring in his nt>w regime as lh•ad Football Coach. Df'vinf' usht>rt-d in four nt-w assistant l'O<.tChPs. thrPf' of thf'm old friends. southern gPntlemPn with a down hom1• simplicity that is refreshing. and a tough. dPt<'rmined coaching attitude that is Pncouraging. 
NPw on tht> block. along with lkvim·. art-: Hank Kuhlman. offt-nsive hackfit-ld coach: Johnny Boland. rt'l'Pivers coach: Mervin . Johnson. offensivt> coordinator: and Ed ChlPbek. specialty tt>am t'o<.tch. All But Chlebek have played or workt>d for Devin!'. and all 'arP happy to bt> working with him now. 


Boland is probably the best known of thP new ND coaches, having madP a namt-for himself in tht• pro ranks. He played for 

HEAD FOOTBALL COACH Dan Devine has a staff of nine assistant coaches, including four new ones. Left to right they are: fron row: Ed Chlebek, Hank Kuhlman, Devine, George Kelly. Back
lkvine at Missouri. graduating in 

row: Merv Johnson, Greq Blache, Brian Boulac, John Roland, Paul Shoults and Joe Yonto. 
l!llili and moving on to the St. Louis Cardinals for 7 vt>ars. He had I calistht>ntics. But for John, the associated with Devine for many As of yet. no special feeling of \.}~ vear with the Ne~ York Giants and teaching aspect of coaching ex-years. Kuhlman was in the St. ND's football tradition has hit ' iast vear returned to work with tends beyond the playing field. Louis Baseball Cardinal Kuhlman. "The tradition here at Dt•virw in Grt-t-n Bay. "As a coach. I'm particularly organization for three years, and Notrt> DamP is great," he says, John says ht> is satisfied with his dealing with tht>m on the field. I spent !i months in the armed "hut a pt-rson likt> myself, until I'm dt•cision to return to the college takf' particular interest in their off-st-rvict-s beforP becoming a full-a part of 1t, I can't get the whole lt•vt•l ht•rt> at Notre Dame. lht>·field activities as a man." tim<' coach at Missouri from 1963-ft>Pling. It's tough until you ex­"I<:verything is fine," he says, "It's Having worked under and with 72. He then movt-d to the Packers pPrienct' _it." . bt-Pn a long time since I've been on Coach Dt-vine for many yt-ars, the with Devine, and was happy to St1ll Kuhlman IS completely a collPge campus, and there's spring drills have been relatively follow him to South Bend from satisfied with his position at the t n•mt•ndous spirit. Coaching is a familiar to Roland. and he, like there. school so far. "I feel real good 
matter of tt>aching, on any level. t•vt-ryone. is looking forward to the "Tht>rt' was no hesitati<_m on my about it," ht' t>xplains. "I'm ThP kids art' pagt>r to lt>arn. and fall. part." says Kuhlman. "m fact I startmg lo feel more a part _of the may be rect>ptive to more than a Hank Kuhlman nearly t-nded up in always enjoyed coaching offensive school. get! mg mto the swmg of 
professional." another sport. but he also has been hacks. and I misst>d it a little bit." things. getting to know the players. Pt>rhaps one of tht' reasons for 
You see them 'devt-lop, or not Boland's satisfaction is his belief 
devt>lop. that's what football that football at Notre Dame is 
t•oaching is." something special. ''I don't think 
Like Boland. Kuhlman is con­there's any other college that can 
,·inced that a coach is a teacher

*Observer
begin to touch Notrt' Dame as far 

also. and takes that dimt-nsion as national appeal goes," says 
seriouslv. HP is aware of his Boland. "It's like a mystique, with 
rt-sponsibility to the players on and the subway alumni, the fans and tht> student body. At first you look at it and say wow. what is it that 
ND ruggers

Sports
makt>s this place so great. But it's 
just the people." On the field. Roland is the 


b~· Hob Kissl'l rt-ct>ivt>r coach, and has an added The Chicago Lions rugby clubduty in leading the team in daily 
considt-rs themselves the best rugby side in the Midwest. It's a shamt-tht>y had to travel all the \\'ay to Notre Damp just to drop a 14-13loss·to the Irish 'A' team last Saturday. The Irish 'B' also 

Irish sYieep \lleekend :matches 
by ('hip Scanlon 

with a sweep of three matches. third set. but could only manage to 
addt>d to the demise of the Lions,

Friday saw the netters in a close come away with one win in these 
winning 32-7, while the 'C'sSunday. tht> Notre Dame tennis 

match with Iowa State that was four matches. 
dropped tht-ir first game of thett-am wrapped up its home 1ied after singles play and was not Rounding out what was termed spring. 24-4.

schedult> of dual meets as it 

dt>CidPd until Notre Dame's fresh­the toughest week of the season the 
Noire Dame jumped off to quick n>corded its third victory in as 

mf'n doubles tandem of Tony netters went on to defeat the 
4-o lead on a first half try by senior many days by defeating a talented 

Bruno and Brian Hainline secured llniversity of Wisconsin, 5 to 4, 
Chris Lombardi. Sean McDonaldtlnivt>rsily of Wisconsin team 5 to 

lhr match with a 7-6, 2-6, 6-4 vic­with tht> outcome of the match not 
and Doug Mosser combined on two4. On prt-vious days they set down 

tory. certain until doubles play was 
outstanding individual efforts forIowa by a score of 5-4, and then On Saturday, Coach Tom Fallon concluded. The team was without ND's second try of the openingwmt on to triumph over Michigan 

was not fact>d with such a cliff­the services of Irish regular Ron 
half.
Slate by a margin of 6 to 3. This 

hanger. His Irish Loom 4 of 6 lnchauslt' who was kept out of 
Mosser took the ball from deep in Wt't>kt>nd's action ht-ightened their 

singlt>s matches and then 2 of 3 acion by a pulled back musclen•cord to 15 and 3. 
the backfit>ld run and handed off to 

doubles matches as they defeated suffered the previous day. Mike Tht> Irish netters went into the McDonald. who smartly followed
Michigan Slate by a final margin O'Donnell filled in for the injured 
the play. With McDonald's try and laking it on tht>chin from Michigan \\'l't>kt>nd looking to rt-bound after Qf 6 to 3. Michigan State played lnchauste and defeated Wiscon­1\litch Wilke's conversion kick, the 
scrappily as they forced 4 of 9 sin's Craig Jones in two straight 
Irish built up a 10-0 lead. The Lions!l-oon Wt>dnesday and came away 

matches to go to the tie-breaking sedts. !i-2, 6-2. 
stormt>d back in the closingThe weekend series was closed minutes of the first half, cuttingon a couple of high notes as Irish the Irish lead to but one point, 10-9.

sophomort' Handy Stehlik broke a .Jim Kovacs camp up with thepersonal three-game losing streak gamt'·Winnt'r about midwayhy downing Wisconsin's Phil through tht> final 45 minute half.
Kadt>sch and raised his season l'hicago scored again. but wasrt>cord to 15 and 3. Senior captain unsucct-ssful in their conversionJohn Carrico managed to win 2 of 3 kick to take the lead. NO went intomatches by defeating the top st-eds slowdown tactics. prt-venting theof Michigan State and Wisconsin. 
Lions from anutht>r scort'.

lt•aving himself with an 11-7 season "ThP win was good for ND rugbymark. Frt>shman Brian Hainlint> is as over the past three weeks Wt'sporting an 11-6 rt>cord while Chris havt' ret>stablisht>d ourselves asKant> and Hon lnchauste hold 12-6 one of the strong sides in Ihe Mid­and 12·5 rPcords respectively. Juan Wl'St."
lnchauste is currt>ntly 9-4 and Mike Tht> Irish ·s· sidt>, playing theO'DonnPII stands at 2 and I. 
first contest of the afternoon, gaveDoublt-s play leaves NO's stellar an indication of what was in storecombo of Stehlik-O'Donnell with an for the Lions, drubbing their 'B'outstanding record of 14 and 3 as 

' J 
sidt' :l2·7. It took only a ft>wthf'se netters provide the Irish with minutrs in tht> opening half for thean almost sure win whenever they ·s·s toopt-n up their offt-nse. Marktakf' the courts.

'. ·~ Tovt'y. only a freshman, scored the
Today thf' Irish take on tht' Univ. 
first fry of tht' {'Ontt'st. The

of Illinois at the Champaign 
remaining deluge of tries wentcampus and then host the Irish sompthing like this: !\lark Janco.

Invitational Tournamt-nt at the Bob O'Connor. Billy McHugh.
l'ourtney TPnnis Centt>r. Tht> Irish
·---~ 
Gt>org(• SpiegPI. Tony Mendiola.

IRISH CAPTAIN John Carrico won two out of three weekend matches· tourney starts on Friday and will 
to raise his season record to 11-7. be wrappt>d up on Sunday. 
and !\likt> Michalek. Michalt>k and 





home 
off tht' field and is ready to help in any aspect of their collegiate lives. 
Kuhlman has been living in South Bt'nd since February and likt-s the community and the pt•oplt•. Ht• is married and has one son. and enjoys working with coach ()(•vine and the people he is 
surrounded with. 

Mervin Johnson, the. offensive l'oordinator. didn't play under I>Pvine in his years at Missouri. having graduat<>d a year before Dt>vine's arrival. He did come hack to coach at Missouri for two vt'ars. lwfore ht> moved to the llnivPrsity of Arkansas. where he has st>rvt'd as an assistant for the past 12 yt•ars. HP rt'mained close with Dt>vine ovt'r lht> years and readily accepted the position he was offt>rt>d here. 
"As far as opportunity is con­l'Prned. I felt that coming here was a stt>p up in the profession." says Johnson. ''Whether you're here or outsidt> looking in, it's an in­langihlt> plus that ND has. It allows many to play as ovt-rachievt-rs. makes guys great playprs that maybe have only avt>ragt' ability." 
Johnson points to the inex­periPnct> of the present Irish squad and dt-spite somt-admitted defieit>ncit-s, is proud to coach the kids bt•caust> they are willing and t>nthusiastic. "Tht> players have bet>n super." he says, "from the standpoint of determination and pffort tht-y givt> t-verything they got. They may not be that ex­!>('rienct>d. or even really good, but !hey go all out." 
Winning the player's respect is important to Johnson and he feels that working with the kids in all art>as and tuning into their problems hPlps accomplish that. He also notices a difference from his college days in the player's mt•ntal attitude towards the game. 
"Young people are much more 
(t·nntinut•d ou !Jll~t' 151 

down Lions 
l\tark KPown each added one t•onvt>rsion kick. 
"Evt-ryont' on the team felt the psyche from playing the Lions, t•vt-n though the 'B' side won the Lions game last fall." commented senior Mark Keown. "The Lions wt'rt> bigger. stronger, and more l'Xperit-nced, but we just out hustled them." 
The Irish T' team, despite playing a team composed of ex­perienced foreignt>rs <even more so on tht> 'A' and 'B' sidesl, never gave in to the overwhelming odds. Tht> Lions wt-re too smooth and 

Women sailors place 4th, 2nd 

The Midwest Women's Cham­pionships \\'t're held this past weekend on St. Joseph's Lake. This regatta was the qualifying regatta for the National Championships, which will be held in Chicago this June. 
Ohio Wesleyan University found the conditions to their liking, as they built up a reasonable lead over Wooster College. Purdue followed cllsely in third, while Notre Dame occupied fourth. 
The heavier winds and rain on Sunday proved to be what the Notre Dame women were waiting for, as they sailed their way into second. 
Camille Doan led the Notre 
Dame effort by winning "A" division, with the help of her crew, Amy Kosnar. Also supporting the Notre Damt-effort were Liz Flood, Carole I<'roling and Meme Hanson, who were all in "B" division. Liz: Britton of Wooster was the winning "B" division skipper. 
This wt>ekend, the team will start their drive towards the National Championships , with the first round of qualifications, to be held at the University of Michigan. 







