OD The Inside 
Mardi Gras 
•••page 2 Problem Drinking 

••.page 3 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Tuesday, January 28, 1975
Vol. IX No. 68 
Grant power to override veto or cut membership 

McLaughlin proposes SLC powers 
by Mike Edwards Staff Reporter 

Student Body President Pat McLaughlin Proposed at the Student Life Council meeting Monday that either power to overrride the veto of the University President be given to the SLC, or that the board's membership be reduced to six people. 
Under his proposal the new SLC would include the student body president, and vice-president, the dean of students, the vice-president for student affairs, and two faculty members. This board would have advisory jurisdiction over University rules and regulations. 
This dual proposal immediately brought on a storm of reacions from all sides, which launced the Council into an interlude of self-examination. 
McLaughlin gave severalrea;ons for both parts ot his motion. Concerning the power to override a veto, he stated that it would give a untied board a chance to take action even if the Administration was opposed to a measure, He added that now the board was "negative" and "reactionary, since most of our action have been reactions to events that have already occurred," and that the ability to pass measures over the head of the President of the University would allow the Council to take more initiative. 
Citing student apathy, he said the secon_d alter­native proposal asking for .a smaller council wo1;1ld make the SLC faster movmg and more responsive to student needs. 
In the ensuing debate, various reactions were expressed by board members, many which included reactions on the Council itself. Dr. Robert Ackerman countered the proposal by saying it reJected a "spoiled child" attitude and, "We are not a legislative body, but an advisory body." 
PAT MCLAUGHLIN (center) proposed that the SLC be empowered to override the veto of the University President at yesterday's SLC meeting. Looking on are student representatives (left to right) Marty O'Shea, Brian Hegarty, Art Derse, and Tom Clark. 
"I think you are overlooking the recommendary 
and advisory nature of this body," Ackerman 
stated. 

A discussion ensued on whether the 'board was performing any useful purpose. Chairman of the meeting and Student Body Vice-PresidentFrank Flanagan stated "Some of the members are unimpressed by the Student Life Councul and that there was general student body apathy." 
Art Derse daid, "I don't think we have any power to do anything worthwhile on campus at all." "There seems to be something wrong with what 

we are doing," he added. 
Flanner expulsions due to communication problems 
by Mike Lyons 
Staff Reporter 

Brian McGinty, Student Government Judicial Coordinator, stated yesterday that the expulsion of the seven studetns from Flanner Hall in December resulted from a situation "getting out of hand." McGinty admitted that hall rectors possess the technical power to expel students from a hall at any time. The use of this power has not been widespread, according to McGinty. 
According to Frank McGuire, Flanner Hlal president, a communication problem allowed the situation to get out of control, resulting in the ex­pulsion aciton by Fr. John Mulcahy, Flanner rector. 
Mulcahy refused to comment on any specifics of the incident, indicating that "It would not be ap­propriate for me to discuss the case at this time." 
Citing a recent case in Stanford which had been settled by the hall 'J' board, Ginty said that most cases were settled in this manner. 
Workable channels of communication are im­portant in solving problems in the hall, according to Barbara Counts, rector of Lyons Hall. The channels in the hall include judicial boards and hall staffs. 
Role of hall staffs 

Resident Assistants provide an important link 
between the rector and the students. Brother John 
Benesh, rector of Alumni Hall and assistant 
director of student activities, feels that a rector 
must rely· heavily on the RA's to let him know what 
is happening in the hall. 
"Getting to know the people in the section and 
being aware of any problems which they may be 
having, not necessarily of a disciplinary nature, is 
essential if there is to be any interaction," said 
Benesh. 
Fr. Thomas Tallarida, Zahm Hall rector and 
director of off-campus housing, commented that 
hall staff meetings are necessary for smooth 
operation of the hall. At the staff meetings, issues of 
concern may be brought up and suggestions may be 
made. 
Tallarida feels that no hall can work if there is a split between hall staff and the residents. He noted that a joint effort between students and staff is necessary if everyone is to live together amicably. Thus an active channel of communication and recognition that "rights and duties must be com­bined must exist." Talarida said. 
"Community means freedom ...but also taking responsiblility for ones' own actions," said Tallarida. 
Personal contact with residents 
Counts, and Fr. John Lahey, rector of Stanford, both believe informal contacts with their residents are among the most valuable method of getting acquainted and of establishing good, healthy channels through which any problems can be discussed. 
Counts says that she tries to make her girls feel free to drop in anytime. She considers it important to show a genuine interest in their activities and to visit them in their rooms. 
Lahey emphasized that interest is a two way street, and that residents of the hall must make an effort, too. He indicated that the majority of any hall staff have a real desire to be there, and that . students realize that one aspect of the hall staffs 
job is enforcement of rules. 

counts contends that witnin the restrictions at Lyons, there is still room for different lifestyles. She says that she believes that most people realize 
concessions are necessary when living in a com­munity,andthattheytrytoadaptthebestwaythey
can, even if it is difficult. The existence of workable channels of communication are invaluable when problems arise, according to Counts. 
Lahey noted that because of the size of the halls and the time factor involved, it was difficult for the Rector or Assistant Rector to make close contact with everyone. This dilemma served to define the entire purpose of the Hall Staff, which includes the President, Vice-President, Secretary, 'Treasurer, the Resident Assistants and the Section Leaders, as being the main point of exchange between the Rector and his residents, Lahey said. 
Other student members echoed the charges of powerless!less, i~a~tion and student apathy. Dr. Walter Ntcgroskt m rebuttal citted the calender controversy as an example of a "useful function of the committee,.. and noted that the Counci Council provided an arena for issues to be aired and 
discussed. 
Bro. Just Paczesny said, "I see the value in a smaller group, but I also see the value in the talent of the larger group." Paczesny agreed "'that the boar~ possibly spent too much time on the sexuality question, and I would like to move in other direc­tions and soend less time on single issues." 
Finally a vote was taken on the first part of McLaughlin's motion and it passed 9 to 7 with 3 abstentions Most of the student members supported the measure and the mamority of the facutly and Administration members opposed. A straw vote was taken on the second measure and the tally in the unofficial vote was 13 in support and 3 against. 
Ackerman then observed, "We have just spent one and a half hours discussing something that we knwo won't float and have risked further making ourselves a laughingstock." 
Frank Flanagan then decided to ell for a motion to reconsider the first proposal which had just been passed. The motion was passed and the original proposal was voted on again, this time go8ng down to defeat 9 opposed and 8 for. 
A committee composed of members Paul Con­way, Maureen Gleason, Bro. Paczesny and Denis Sullivan was appointed to further investiigate the motions and report at the next meeting. 


di G
1ll,_,... . .•as .ze,~ t.v . t.es
.,IF.,I-......,' ,1,' .II ~ 1 1 l 

b h F d
to eg1·n t 1·s r1· ay 
page 

warld briefs 
Manila UPI -Typhoon Lola damaged about 15 per cent of the 
Phillipine sugar crop that was ready for harvesting and killed at 
least 30 persons, oficials reported Monday. 

Five other persons were reported missing in the wake of 
Saturday's typhoon, the first to hit the Phillippines this year. 
The typhoon knocked out electric power and communications lines, washed away hundreds of houses, brdiges and other government propoerty and uprooted tress and crops. Landslides and floods were reported in scattered areas. 
More than 8,000 persons were homeless, according to official reports. 
New York UPI-Prices soared on the New York Stock Exchange Monday in the heaviest trading day in the market's 183 year history Lower interest rates and signs of government action against recession spurred trading and prices. 
Brattleboro, Vt. UPI Ida Fuller, the first recipient of Social 
Security benefits, died here in a nursing home Monday. 
Miss Fuller, who was 100 years old, said recently she had con­
tributed about $22 to the Social Security fund and had received 
more than $20,000 in benefits since 1940, 

Miss Fuller broke even with the Social Security fund on on Jan. 31, 1940, when she received a check for $22. The Social Security Act was passed in 1935. 
Chicago VPI -Rep. John C. Kluczynski, D-Ill., a member of 
Congress since 1950, died Sunday night of a heart attack, his office 
announced Monday. He was 78. 

Aides said the congressman was stricken with a high fever on 
Saturday, and collapsed in his home Sunday night. 

an campus taday 
3:30pm . computer course, "efficient use of tape and disk", 113 comp center 
4:30pm. seminar, "ecology of marihuana", by dr. a. haney, galvin aud. 
5 pm . vespers, evenson, log chapel 

7:30pm-lecture, "intro transcendental meditation", lib aud. 
7: 30 pm -meeting, faculty senate meeting, 202 CC E 
7:30pm· lecture, "christianity and sectarianism", by dr. h. weiss, carroll ha II 
8& 10 pm ·movie, woody allen festival, eng. aud. 
10 pm-radio, freshman focus point, WSND (640 am) 

Mardi Gras 'Gold Rush' begins this Friday at 6 
Mardi Gras 1975 opens Friday night at 6 p.m. with a specail sneak preview of "The Gold Rush" for "everyone who wants to attend" according to Dan Sullivan, chairman of the Mardi Gras Committee. All booths will be open for business until 2 a.m. for the convenience of all who wish to be ''first to strike gold." 
Saturday, February 1, Stepan Center will open its doors at 12 noon and Mardi Gras will continue until 2 a.m. that night. Activities resume Sunday at 12 noon and recess at 12 midnight. 
Monday through Thursday of next week, the Mardi Gras will be open from 6 p.m. until midnight. 
Finally, Mardi Gras second weekend will observe the same hours as its first. 
All Notre Dame students wishing to deal at the booths are reminded that tonight is the last night for dealers school, which will com­mence at 6:30 and matriculate a new batch of alumni every half hour until 10:30. 
St. Mary's students wishing to attend dealers school may attend a special session to be held Wed­nesday night at 7 p.m. in Regina North on the St. Mary's campus. 
Students are advised that students will be permitted to deal at the Mardi Gras booths only if they have attended dealers school. 


Observer 

Reporters 


Reporter's Workshop 
with 

Prof Ronald Weber 
(Chairman of American Studies) 


6:30 p.m. Tomorrow Newcomers invited! 
Food Co-op is still unsure 
by Mark Jahne 
Staff Reporter 

Student Body President Pat 
McLaughlin expressed hope today that the university officers will approve the proposed Food Co­Op for off-campus students. The preliminary proposal was distributed to the officers last week by Brother Just Paczesny, Vice President for Student Affairs. 
McLaughlin noted that things are still quite indefinite, and gave the proposal a "fair'' chance of succeeding. 
"We've just talked over some basic questions," he said. He hopes the request for a 12,000 dollar loan will be approved since "It's not an unreasonabl~ amount." 
Student Government has chosen a preferred site for the co-op, but have chosen not to reveal the exact location until the university has made its final decision on the matter. When asked when he expects the officers to vote, McLaughlin said, "I hope sometime this week." 
Brother Paczesny remarked that, "Nothing has happened since the initial matter." As an officer, he chose not to comment further until a vote on the issue could be held. He did offer a note of op­timism, however. "It has possibilities. It has worked elsewhere." 
The next meeting of the university's officers has not yet been determined. 
ERRATUM 

The average cost-of-living per year is nearly $80 less for students living off-campus than in a (lorm not $80 per month as stated in yesterday·sobserver. in the article entitled "Poll shows 0-C life cheaper than dorm." 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuoents of the University of Notre Dame Md St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box' Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
THE WOODY ALLEN FILM FESTIVAL 




:JriJa'l, :Jet. 14 
A. Assorted Chocolates 
B. Fancy Heart C,D. Red Foil Hearts 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 







Facultyreviewsreferendum 
by Bill Flanagan Staff Reporter 
Six faculty members scrutinized yesterday the issues of a proposed faculty referendum. The referendum, announced thursday night by Faculty Senate Chair­man James Cushing, concurns the salary issue, University hiring practices and a faculty evaluation of the University administration. 
Sociology Professor Irwin Press 
responded strongly to all the issues 
on the referendum. Press called 
the Catholic-only hiring proposal a 
"terrible mistake" and said the 
administration should be 
evaluated "by all means." 
"The present by-laws call for an 
evaluation every five years, but it 
should be done every year.," 
Press also branded the $600 cost of living bonus as "horribly inadequate" and stated, "Present salary rates are nowhere nearly enough to offset incresases in the cost of living." 
According to Press, an increase of $1200 on a permanent basis would be needed to put Notre Dame on a par with schools in the Big Ten. The $600 bonus did nothing as far as improving the retirement benefits for professors, he added. 
"The administration got away 
with murder," Press complained. 
Government Professor John 
Kromkowski said the $600 cost of 
living increase "doesn't meet the 
rate of inflation in these times of 
economic crisis." 
Kromkowski agreed with the 
proposed evaluation of the ad­
ministration, noting, "Everyone 
must be held accountable and it is 
r-------------------------­
From woman's point of view 

Drinkingdiscussed 
by Marianne Schulte Staff Reporter 

"Problem Drinking--A Woman's Point of View" will be the topic of a panel presentation and discussion to be held in the north basement lounge of Walsh Hall tomorrow evening at 
7:30 p.m. 
Four South Bend women with professional or personal expertise concerning alcohol and its use will speak to students in an effort to raise an awareness of problems associated with alcohol that can arise in a woman's personal realm, directly or indirectly, during some phase of her life. Two of these women are from the staff of The Memorial Hospital Alcoholic Program, one is a member of Alcoholics Anonymous, and another is associated with Al-Anon. 
"With one out of every ten social drinkers falling into the category of 'problem drinking', it seems likely that this problem will confront many of our residents in later years, 
either in themselves, their .--------------------------­
families, or their circle of friends," Badin Hall rector Helen Gallagher stated yesterday. Ms. Gallagher and Ceil Prinster, the president of Badin Hall, have played a part in the arrangements for the lecture. 
Interest in the problems of alcoholism was stimulated here last semester by Mr. Keith Huet of the National Institute on Alcohol Education, a division of the department of Health, Education, and Welfare. Heut spoke to the Hall President's Council about the purposes of the program, which are to inform and educate people about the reasons for excessive consumption of alcohol and what circumstances cause them. 
Mary Clare McCade, Assistant Dean of Students who was also involved in the planning of the pannel, emphasized that the presentation was "for all women on campus, not just women who think that they might have a drinking problem. 
"A woman might come into contact with a friend, or other family member who has a drinking problem," McCade said, "and the main purpose of this lecture is to focus an awareness toward realizing the symptoms and causes of its development and what might be done about it." 
The format of the lecture will be a series of short presentations by each of the four women, discussing facts and data about drinking, and what steps may be taken when confronting a personal or familial alcohol problem. 


Acareer in law­
WithOUt laW SChOOl. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the six courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 700 graduates in law firms, banks, and corporations in over 60 cities. 
If you are a student of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant, we'd like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 
TUESDAY,FEBRUARY11 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 
Indiana T. Reg. # AC0035 

a good idea if it is handled in a proper way." He added that the entire referendum would have to be framed and formed more clearly before it is distributed to the faculty. 
Earth Sciences Professor Kenneth Brehob also noted that present salary levels aren't enough to keep up with rising prices. He stated his opposition to the proposed evaluation of the ad­ministration and acknowledged that a Catholic-only hiring policy would be wrong. 
Management Professor William Eagan stated that he "doesn't agree at all with a policy of hiring only Catholics." He agreed that the idea of the faculty evaluating the administration was good, but "there would be no reason for it if the faculty isn't more objective tha .1 the students are when the students evaluated the faculty." 
Mathematics Professor Cecil 
Mast allowed that he has certtai 
misgivings about an ad­
ministration, saying, "I don't quite 
see the point." 

Mast also discounted the issue of 
the Catholic-only hiring policy. 
"I've been here twenty years and 
the policy has never been Catholics 
only," he observed. 
Concerning the salary issue, 
Mast noted that he currently holds 
a tenured position on the faculty 
and that he is not yet endangered 
by the present economic con­
ditions. 

Sophronia Potter, modern and 
classical languages professor, 
disagreed with many of her 
colleagues and stated that the 
salary of faculty members is now 
adequate. Potter declined com­
ment on the issue of facultv 
OBSERVER FEATURES STAFF MEETING 

Tues., Jan. 28, 8 p.m. at the Observer Offices. 
All persons covering the Sophomore Literary Festival are asked to attend 
evaluation of the administration since she rarely comes in con tact with them. 
Potter added that "the best man for the job should be hired," in­stead of Catholics only. 
Several of the faculty members displayed their confusion over the faculty pay increase issue. Some felt the bonus constituted a per­manent $600 salary increase, but in fact, it is only a bonus to be received in two installments, $300 in the fall and $300 in the spring. 

Freshman radio 
program to be continued tonight 
The . F_reshman Advisory Council, In accordance with WSND-AM will present FRESH­MAN FOCUSPOINT, the second of a weekly series which is aired every Tuesday night from 10-11 
p.m. on WSND 640 a.m. FOCUSPOINT examines problems and areas of concern to the Notre ~a'?~ freshma~ community by InVIting promment guests to discuss specific topics. 
Tonight's show, entitled "Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Financial Aid But Didn't Know Who to Ask "' will focus in on problems of nn'ancing an education at ND. Guests on the panel include Mrs. June McCauslin, financial aid director Capt. William McLean, Navy ROTC commander, and Personnel Director Joseph O'Brien. 
Students also have the op­portunity to call while the show is on the air and talk personally with the guests. 


Valentine's Day Friday, Feb. 14 
Remember all your loved ones with thoughtful Hallmark Valentines and gifts. 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

In Gratitude· 
Dear "Students and Friends, 
Since it would be impossible for mt> to write to so many individuals personally, I am requesting that your newspaper will convey my message to you. 
I want to express my gratitude to so many of you for your ex­pressions of sympathy, the phone calls, letters, mass offerings, and memorial donations and for your participation in the funeral. It meant so much to know that you care. 
I know that for many of you it is very painful to go back to the surroundings that remind you of Jim but I ask you to welcome those associations and be happy for the memories that you have shared with him. I know that he would want it that way. 
Despite the grief during the time of Jim's departure, the presence of love prevailed and for a while people forgot themselves and reached out in an attitude of love. My family and I were surrounded by this love. 
I think that everyone who knew and loved Jim had to realize his own inadequacy and yield to the almighty power of God. I pray that as this hour passes and you all return to living your individual lives, that you don't allow this awareness to pass away but will realize a lasting experience of Jesus Christ in yor lives. Jim's death will then have achieved a purpose. It's because He lives that Jim lives. 
I am truly looking forward to seeing many of you again. Remember, you're always welcome in Beaver and you'll always be in my thoughts and prayers. 
Gratefully to you for your love, and eternally, grateful to God for having been Jim Ward's mlther, 
In His love, Dolores Ward 
Homo­sexuality 
Dear Editor: 

It is always taken as a milestone when bigotry and indifference are overcome and replaced with compassion and understanding. This was done recently in the series "Homosexuality" by Andy Praschak. 
Notre Dame has always been a strong leader on behalf of any person be he black, brown, red, white, or a member of any other minority group in the fight for human decency whenever those causes are endangered. 
While trying to meet the in­tellectual needs of its students the university must also aid its students in their task oC struggling to find themselves and to ultimately discover their aims in life and help them achieve their goals. 
The series of articles proved for the most part interesting because it chose not to be overtly partisan but acted as a sounding board to show an element of society that exists today but has always been ignored in the past in hopes that it would disappear. There were parts of the article which totally disagreed with such as the in­terview with "Tom" concerning the gay community in South Bend. I feel there should never be a caste system which he hints at. It is like saying I will not bother with Michaelangelo because he did not go to Notre Dame. Although I am critical of "Tom's" ooinion I must say that I am proud of him because obviously he cares enough to get involved. 
While to many of the student body the topic of the series may not seem worthy of being printed in the newspaper I can bet you that more newspapers were taken home and read than usual. I know that they were read because there were numerous discussions throughout the campus concerning the ar­ticles. It was very helpful for those of us who are caught up in an identity crisis. Since even the "Super" jocks read the articles I woulc like to say this: Remember the times that someone on your team scored a touchdown or a goal'? Didn't you and your team­mates hug each other in celebration'? Was it wrong to do so'? 
There is not one single student on campus who is not touched by homosexuality. I say this because of the percentage oof homosexuals in society every family tree must contain at least one member who is gay. 
Both Dr. Arens and Father Griffin are to be congratulated on their views which are totally honest. I totally agree with the words of !:',ather Griffin when he said "The same God who created us all in his image makes us all feel welcome in his church." No mortal man has yet been given the title of God to choose whether or not being gay is either right or wrong. It would seem appropriate since this series stimulated student that the university would purchase books dwelling on this subject so that understanding and not total ignorance could prevail on this campus. Remember, the gay student pays the same amount of tuition as other students. 
Name Withheld on Request 
Thought Police 
Dar Editor: 
I have read with interest your coverage of rector "Moose" Mulcahy's decision to expel Ftanner residents for their unacceptable "attitudes." This is not, as Flanner President Frank McGuire has stated, a new 'precedent": actually, Mulcahy's beliefs about enforceable thought control and immediate elimination of "troublemakers" are firmly established in the teachings of B.F. Skinner, "Crazy Joe" Gallo, and Joseph Goebbels. 
I cannot agree with those who have called this decision arrogant, ,narrow-minded, and moronic. In fact, I sympathiize with Moose Mulcahy and his R.A., Tim McBride, in their valiant efforts to stamp out the serpent freedom to dissent, and I would like to help them in these efforts. l have devised a plan which, t believe, will streamline their entire operation.
First, the aid of the bio­
chemistry department would be 
enlisted to implant a tiny electrode 
within ghe brain of each Flanner 
resident. These electrodes willl 
constantly monitor each student's 
thoughts, and transmit them down 
to the main feedback cmputer 
console at the hall's Attitude 
Conttol Center in Mulcahy's office. 
The thoughts will automatically 
print out onto computer sheets, 
each thought already labelled with 
the proper Sttudent I.D. number. 
Meanwhile, Tim McBride, as 
Flanner's new Chief of Attitude 
Control, will supervise the thought 
printouts night and day, ever alert 
for thoughts which indicate an 
"attitude" inconsistent with the 
ideals of the Flanner Hall staff. 
These would include such thoughts as "Moose is imperfect" or ''Me Bride is not my mother or my warden." <Obviously, this system could also detect thoughts about future parietal and alcohol abuses, thus making it possible to prosecute the student even before the violation is committed.) McBride will make a note of each offending thought, along with the students' I.D. numbers, and that night Moose will simply telephone the wrong-thinking students, in­forming them that they have 24 hours to move off-campus. 
For a slight extra cost, the brain­electrodes could be equipped with radio-controlled explosive devices. Then, when the Thought Police system detects an unacceptable attitude, McBride could feed the student's J.D. number into another device and press a button, and the electrode would instantly explode within the offending studen 'ts brain and blow his head off. This would satisfactorily destroy the source of the bad attitude, and would save Moose the trouble of making the phone call.) 
This system is neat, it is ef­fective, and it eliminates the need for any bo'thersome com­munication between rector and wrong-thinking student. Flanner Hall might lose four-or five­hundred good students under this new system, but after a few years of wholesale carnage the hall should finally be filled with all "good little boys" suitable to Moose's liking. 
Ifeel that all of this is both conducive to Moose's goals and ideals of how a hall should be run, and obviously consistent with his demonstrated ethical standards. Jfeel sure that he will give this plan serious consideration. 
Sincerely,Ted Kerin i02 Flanner 
the observer 

Night Editor-Mike Strickroth 
Ass't Night Editor-Ginny Faust 
Copy Reader-Bob Quakenbush, 
Jeanne Murpny, Ken Bradford 
Day Editor-Bob Radziewicz 
Editorials-Fred Graver 
Sports-Bill Brink 
Typists-Anne Peeler, Barb Norcross, 
l<aren rlinks, Martha Fanning 
Compagraphic Operator-Chip Spina 
Picture CScreener-AI D'Antonio 
Night Controller-Tim Murphy 
22picas Come On 
' 
Commies 
fred r:~raver 

There was once a time when you could tell the difference between Sunday afternoon and all of the other afternoons. Sunday sort of dragged out, with not much happening. Time to fiddle around with things you either didn't feel like fiddling around with before, or things that call for just the right lack of concentration to render them perfect for Sunday afternoons. 
But now, things are so dull and listless (two words that I swear were meant for each other, like "zany" and 'antics" paired in in­numerable ads for second-rate comedians) that Sunday afternoons have, by default, been raised to the equality of every other af­ternoon. 
Which is to say that not much is happening. 
"Hey, man, what's happenin'?" 
"Not much." 
Truer words were never uttered. 
Sunday afternoon and I'm prowling the place, looking for some action. End up in Mike's room. The TV is blaring, W.C. Fields is looking for a way to finish Baby LeRoy for good. 
"Christ I , Mike, what's going on today'? What happened to the spirit that once posessed students to gather up and protest the in­justices of society, the inequalities within the masses, and the unfair prices of basketball tickets'?" 
"Go away son, you bother me," he snarled in mime of the man on 
the screen. 
Bop on over to Bernie's room. Bernie's been the route of the sixties, from Hells's Angels to politics to Wodstock to Maharaj Ji. Now he's into Jesus. Any port in a storm, I guess. 
"Hey man, you know me. I used to make my living fighting in 
bars, riding on motorcycles, taking drugs. I used to hate my mom 
and dad, my brothers and sisters. Now I love everybody, except for 
the cat across the hall who won't stop playing 'Superstar' on the 
stereo. If I hear 'What's the Buzz, tell me what's 'a' happenin' one 
more time I'm gonna pray over him so bad he's gonna have 
pestilences comin' out of his ears." 
"What a minuute, Bernie," I said, finally stepping in the door. 
"What are you doin' this afternoon'?" 
"Watchin' TV. They got this religious show featuring former 
drug addicts telling about how they saw God and reformed their 
ways. Today they got two guys who fought each other for eighteen 
straight hours in front of Jay's before they saw Jesus. Why don't 
you pull up a chair, buy me a coke and watch." 
"Maybe next week." 
Decided to check out the signs in the Huddle. ~an DeMarco is 
still pushing touch dancing, with a whole new se ester in line for 
her loyal students. I keep thinking about her ass tant Raoul, the 
guy who plays records for her. He reminds me of a pint-sized gigolo 
type. Probably has Fan-Tan Fran in for a bundle on cheap Mexican 
dancing shows. ("Oh, Raoul, these are just beautiful, and they're 
so comfortable." "Only $18.95, Senorita DeMarco.") 
Turn my attention over to Scoop, my favorite soda jerk. This guy 
is so good at making a milk shake, he can come in when he's not 
working and laugh at the other guys. Timed him at 3:46 for a 
double chocolate chip shake, a little slow but the ice cream was 
hard. Rough all over. 
After hot and saucy Huddle burger, there was nothing to do but 
head for my room. Checking out one of my magazines, I find relief 
form my prison of ennui. An article about boredom!! 
This guy is so bored, he's even taken the time to write about how 
Jacques Cousteau bores him. That's good and bored. He's not only 
affected by his boredom, he's so far into it that he sees it from the 
inside out. A quote: "Take a look at the culture (if you can keep 
your eyes open). Time magazine's modern living section made the 
cover a few weeks ago. Know what was on it'? A beagle. This is 
what's going on in America: people have a lot of pets. Stop the 
presses! ! ! " 
I tell you, if the Commies were ever really interested in taking 
over, now would be the time. They wouldn't need any secret 
weapons, just something interesting to do, something that would 
capture the hearts and minds of America. Which isn't all that easy, 
because the major part of our boredom derives from the fact that 
we've just about seen everything. 
What do you do for an encore after you've put a man on the moon, 
covered the country with McDonald's, made a number one record 
out of a song about Kung-Fu, gotten thousands of people into the 
movies to see a little girl roll her eyes and shout obscenities at a 
Catholic priest, and made television history by putting "I Love 
Lucy" on the tube up till six times a day in some cities? 
Plunge the country into a depression? 

belltawer views I I Apology to I I 
I 

Notre Dame I I 
mary margaret sheeran 
I 

Within the circle of people I am happy to call my friends, I have often spoken about my thorough res .entment of something called "Notre Dame." My arguments consisted of the following viable points:
a) that annual invasion of barbarians known as the panty raid. Why, in my own dorm, should I have to lock my own door and fume behind it while some, ha-ha, thinking cute and aggressive boobies herd through our halls, stealing and defacing our property? What was the frustration was that the majoity of people thought it was only natural that the little boys have their little fling, and so we "girls" should simolv bow down to the inevitable. 
b the "St. Mary's courses are easy 'A' courses" attitude. One of my favorite professors (from whom I have never been able to earn an "A") told me the story of the young Notre Dame student who inquired about an · SMC course, and, on hearing that it involved some pretty heavy reading and rPsearch. abruptly hung up the phone. 
c J a quote I read the autuum I entered St. Mary's the year Notre Dame turned co­educational. The statement was Father Hesburgh's and rar to the effect that he believed women were holier than men. Later I heard from several reliable students and professors tha a good priest, who is more ofte ·n heard from than seen, could not wait for St. Mary's to die her inevitable soon-to-<:ome death because he wanted Notre Dame to have first bids on such hallowed ground. (Hallowed, I hasten to remind G .P. because it has been trodden on primarily by women.) the relection ot cross campus feelings in past-non-merger depression, Observer coverage (St. Mary's fault, not Notre Dame's and not the fault of the SMC editor,) and various policies of both 
campuses.
Contrasting these shallow but earnest 
feelings was the fact that I have many good 
friends "across the street." Men and 
women who are intelligent, beautiful 
epople. They do not have that "Notre 
Dame" quality. In fact, it's all the people I 
don't know who possess that trait. Funny ... 
Anyway, I also suffer an historical 
problem. There is a road that belongs to 
me, which winds down past the cemetery, 
the grotto, and ends up at the log chapel. It 
is mine because my parents walked that 
route thirty years ago. Sigh!
But to continue our story. The "I will 
never take a Notre Dame course " kid 
climbed onto a Toledo bound bus for 
Christmas. The photographer who sat next 
to me was an interesting sort, and when he 
ehard where I went to school, I heard that 
inevitable question: 
"What is it like to go to school near Notre 
Dame?" 
"Notre Dame," I began, "is across the 
street from St. Mary's, and not the other 
way around." 
"Oh?" 
I 

I launched into my patriotic and ever so I logical arguments, very much like a minority who knwos that somehting is I 
wrong with the way it is culturally treated and whose only weapon is to alter facts I and emotionsi in order to achieve a 
I

fairer end. "St. Mary's," I continued, "is a · school. 
I

It's not perfect, but it's home to me. I can be quiet there. Oh, I can't explain my Ifeelings for St. Mary's. They're too deep inside of me. But I love·· her." I 
I 

Like Ingrid Bergman said, "There must always be a St. Mary's Father O'Malley!" I 
Up a few seats, at the same time, I heard a woman of my own age remark, "Oh, I I wouldn't go to St. Mary's. Notre Dame is strict, but St.. Mary's is practically a con­I vent, and , well, who'd want to goto that kind 
I
of school?" 
I 

The remark startled me. It was a shock to hear a major description of St. Mary's as I "Strict" to me meant uniforms. compulsive Masses, lights-out at ten. Socially, St. I Mary's has some stupid rules, made not for 
I

the -student's sakes but for the parent's and visitor's (like the re-done IStapleton Lounge. It's beautiful, nobody who paid for it uses it, and we need I equipment for our science department) but 
sum up "Why I, a liberated female chose I Notre Dame instead of St. Mary's" in two sentences like that -well, it was so I unfair. Why do you put St.Mary's into a mold of your own making? I 
I 

The question had to follow for me: Why do I I put Notre Dame into a mold of my own making? Aren't I generalizing my I feelings of resentment on account of a small mob action, a traditional belief in the I inadequacy of St. Mary's (which we all 
knowto be false), and the insensitive I statememnts of a public-relations priest? 
I

Wasn't my resentment directed more at the Notre Dame administration if at anyone or Ianything? So what else is new? 
I 

Notre Dame is St. Mary's lake in the Fall, I a hall party, Bulla Shed, Fran de Marko, Washington Hall, Griff and Darby, all my I friends, and the statue on the dome con­tributed by St. Mary's. The history-lover I in me is aware of the ties of our two schools, ties which lately seem shaky, and yes, that I upsets me. It upsets me because I don't 
I

want anyone not to know that St. Mary.s is wonderful in her own way, just as Notre IDame is wonderful in her own way. 
So, to all you folks "across the I street", you have my heart-felt apology for all the bad things I ever said I about you. After all, Mom and Dad walked the whole road: from LeManns to the log I chapel and back again Back again, of 
I 

course, by ten o'clock so that Mom could make curfew. I 
Biology-Ecology 
Fundamentals =====:::lilby al sandej 
Perhaps before we Americans conclude that the solution to the world's problems is to raise the standard of living of the poor majority to the level of the US; instead of first cutting down on our consumption patterns, we ought to consider some biology and ecology fundamentals. 
Biology may be defined as the science that analyses the internal structure, composition, function, and dynamics of various forms of life. Ecology may be defined as the science that analyses the structure, composition, function, and dynamics of organisms with other organisms or the physico-chemical environment. The im­portance of these two areas is that the former answers questions dealing with what is needed to maintain the existence and productivity of humans, the latter answers questions dealing with how and why the environment is or is not capable of maintaining human existence and productivity throughout time and how human activity alters this capacity to fulfill human needs. 
Food and oxygen are among man's needs. Food for human consumption is required in the forms of proteins, fats, car­bohydrates, water,. minersls, and vitamins; with carbon, hydrygen, oxygen, and nitrogen being the basic elements. Solar energy is essential for the process by which plants transform inorganic substances to organic ones, thus man is dependent upon the sun for food as well as heat. The functions of the organic molecules are for body structure, energy fuels, informational conveyors, and catalytic agents. Oxygen, taken in through breathing in humans, is essential for the releasing of energy. Man is continuously dependent upon other organisms and the physics­chemical environment for these substances. These substances may be renewable or non renewable. 
Renewable resources are finite in quantity but through biogeochemical cycles can supply a limited number of humans with the essential substances throughout time. Biogeochemicalcycles explain the process by which needed nutrients pass from one pool to another and another and eventually back to the original one; this rate of renewal being limited. If a breakdown in an ecosystem occurs, biogeochemical cycles become linear, and human existence is terminated. Thus mankinds being is dependent upon the maintainance of certain ecological systems. 
Non renewable resources are finite in quantity and once they are used they are no longer available naturally for human con­sumpption. Recycling processes are now possible through tech!lological advances, however the recycled resource is onlypartially recovered after each cycle of consumption and are depleted in the long term. Furthermore energy is required for recycling. The problem with energy consumption are first it is intrinsically non recyclable due to the Second Law of Ther­modynamics, fossil fuels are approaching depletion levels; second ra~ioactive wastes must be stored in case of nuclear energy, and third generated waste heat from energy consumption muct also be dissipated in the biosphere which in sufficient quantities will breakdown ecosystems. If current energy consumption increases of 5 per cent annually continue, drastic climatic alterations af­fecting global food production have been predicted occur in 70-100 years. This form of polluution. Pollution may be defined as the introduction of matter or energy by human activity into the biosphere that breaksdown life-sustaining ecosystems. 
The total impact of a society on the ecosystem can be expressed by the relation! equals PxFl is the total impact, Pis the population size, and F is the impact per capita. F is dependent upon the quality and quantity of the resources consumed and the technologies used to produce them. If per capita impact were brought to a minimum through the consumption of resources that are needed only to maintain human existence and productivity, and these were produced through the use of the most ecologically sound technologies, this earth 'secosystems could maintain the existence and productivity of at least 30 billion people. Biochemist H.R. Hulett concluded " ... a billion people is the maximum population supportable by the present agrecultural and industrial system of the world at U.S. levels of affluence." and this estimate does not consider depletion of non renewalble resources and environmental deterioration. Today there are 4 billion people on this earth. Perhaps we should ask ourselves doe we have a right to ..:onsume something that another person needs? 
~--------------------------------------------­
A Non-Relevant Experience 
From now until May this paper will probably be deluged with columns and articles from seniors reminiscencing abourt their relevant experiences during their four years here. The experiences I wish to relate is anything but relevant; it should prove to be a singulare experience, nonethless. 
Starting my sophomore year I became pseudo lobrarian, which is to say I got a jobworking in St. Mary's Library. Right from the start I have been creating disturbacnces in the library. The fi~st day I walked i_n there caused a commotiOn by wearing a pair of jeans. Everything seemed to stop when I approached the circula t!on desk, and everyone seemdd to be starmg at me. ONe girl came up to me and said "You must be new her here and probably don't know nettwe, but if Sister sees you, you'll really get it," By this time I was paranoid and began to look to see if I was missing a shoe, or something worse. 
The first hting I discovered working in the 
"brary" was that it is next to impossible for 
a person' to just walk inand find what he or 
she is looking for. THe The main problem 
to start our with is that most peopledon't
know .whaJ floor they're on. AnyQn~ fall asleep standing, with my shoulders climbing the inside front staircase misses hu~ched over the drawers and my head the second floor completely, for it goes restmg o~ the table.. . . straight up to the third floor. If I had a dime There1s also nothmg hke readmg shelves for e~ery time so~eone asked me what fl<><?r they re on, my tmbon already would be paid for. 
Whoever is responsible for the layout af theli~rary has an ingenious min~. Upon enter~ng the lower fornt door, one IS not on the first floor, but the ground floor, and there~ore what app~ars to be the seco~d floor IS actually the first. The second floor IS h!dden up the back stairs_. Leading off to one side of the second floor IS a balcony called the Mezzanine. No one knows What the !\iezza_nin~ i_s le~ alone w~er~ it is. Howsver ~~one IS s1ttmg m the pendmcal room on the first floor, one can see what appears to be .just. a railing un~er some round arches, that IS the Mezzamne. 
It ~as. not lo~g before I started to drea~ wor_kmg m the library. I . couldn t dec1d_e what I hated wors~ shelvmg books, readmg shelves, movmg bookcases, packing books for;torageor card c~talogi~g. _After three ye~rs the overwhelmmg_ choice IS card catalogmg. Every Tuesday mght for the last three years I have had to card cata!og f?r at le3;st two hour!:. Ther is nothmg l~ke loo_kmg endless numbers of books up m the files. I have been known to f~r a~ hour or two., In ~y case most ofhtat bme ~~.spent stretchmg ':JPWard toward the cetlmgona step ladder, SI• nee Jam only 5'1" tall, and the bookcases tower 3 1h shelves over m~ h,ead. ~eari~g skirts and ~resse~ d1dn t help m ~~s. ch_ore, espec1llay 1f some creep was s1ttmg m a study c~rol nearby.. 
Sh~lvmg books mvolved more gym­nas~Ic~. If .I am shelvi~g bound periodicals on the third floor there IS no way I can reach the top shelves without placing two stepladder~ on t?P. of each othe~. Between shelvmg,sh1ftmg and packmg books I never have to do any other ex­cerci~es and. could qualify for a job w!th . .Allied Movmg Company after graduatm. 
I ar:n n~t sure when or why I began to ~ike workmg m the library. There was a bme w~en I w~s very resentful about all the thmgs I missed becasue I had such a totten work schedule. ~one of my other friends h3;d ~o work and It seemed I ~as always miSSI~g ~orne adventure. Ther~ IS one . 
mc1dent that stands our m my mmd; ~e had. a party one nig~t that I attneded for five mmutes before gom~ to wor~. In the subsequent two hours I missed seemg one of myfriendsfall off a s~ing in the pre-school playlo~, <.~ o~ them disappear and three of them mcapac1tated. . 
One of these SQ called friend~stoie a card 
pattie cooney 
out of the Reserve Book file that is now in Arizona. Another one used to sneak up behind me and put his hands over my eyes while I typed book orders which probabl explains why the library 'gets book order~ messed up. Another time a couple of myfriends brought me an ice cream cone with seven scoops on it, which I had to hide under the desk while trving to eat it. 
I've encountered all kinds while working 
there. One character dedicated a poem to me entitled The Chick Behind the Desk· ano~her one used to play with the pen~chamed ~o the reserve desk, explaining he was testmg out a theory for Space Tech. 
After three years ofworking in the library I can find anything in there blindfolded that is if someone hasn't stolen what I'm l~king for. Nine times out of ten when looking for a book I discover that it has mysteriouslydiappeared and have decidedthat is what I hat most about working at the libr~ry. Why .. anyone would bother stealing books like The Prairie is beyond me; it's got to be one of th worst books around b~tt then --­
said we get all kinds. as I 

2nd largest this century 
U.S. suffers from trade deficit of $3 billion 
By RICHARD HUGHES UPI Business Writer 
The United States accumulat­ed in 1974 the second largest trade deficit of the 20th Century, and productivity in the nation's economy dropped for the first time on record, the government said Monday. 
The trade deficit of $3 billion was caused by a tripled bill for imported oil bill, even though there was a 5 per cent cut in the amount of oil imported. A trade deficit means the United States spent more for imported goods than it got in return for exported goods. 
In a separate report, the Bureau of Labor Statistics said non-farm productivity fell 5.1 

pet. in October, November and December for the seventh l consecutive quarter It is the longest slide m productivity since such records were begun in 1947. 
For the year, productivity declined 2.7 pet., the first annual drop since the govern­ment started keeping record. 
Despite the large trade deficit and lower productivity, Wall Street saw encouraging eco­nomic developments in lower prime interest rates and a favorable court ruling for IBM in an antitrust suit. 
In the first two hours of trading on the New York Stock Exchange, prices soared and more than 15.2 million shares 
By FRANK JOHNSTON 
BELFAST lUPI> -The Irish Republican Army Monday resumed full-scale violence in Brita in and Northern Ireland, rocking busy downtown streets in London, Manchester and Londonderry with bombs that wounded 20 persons and caused severe damage.
The explosions cast fresh doubts on whether the IRA would be announcing an expect­ed new cease-fire. 
The London blast was at Gieves, a well-known military tailoring establishment near Bond Street, a fashionable shopping district. Scotland Yard said it had no immediate reports of any injuries in the early-evening blast. 
Nineteen were hurt in Man­chester, where a bomb shat­tered the basement -of one of the leading department stores, and one person was injured in Londonderry, 70 miles north­west of Belfast, where explo­sions hit a Chinese restaurant, a bank and a cafe. 
Police in both cities ordered the evacuation of other down­town stores and began search­ing for more explosives. 
They said anonymous callers had tipped them to the earlier bombs in time to prevent more serious casualties. 
The bombing in Manchester was the worst in Britain since IRA attacks killed 27 persons and wounded more than 200 prior to the 25-day holiday truce that ran out Jan. 16. 
Police said the tipster in the Manchester blast had an Irish accent and gave a 20-minute warning. The bomb exploded in Lewis's department store 13 minutes later as the store was being evacuated. 
Traffic snarled quickly and ambulances had to scream the wrong way down one-way streets to reach the scene. 
"There was a big bang, a lot of flying glass," said Edward Dupont. who raced through the smoke and dust of the blast to help the injured. None was listed in serious condition. 
In Londonderry, police said bombs began exploding on Shipquay Street moments after they chased people out of the area on the basis of an anonymous telephone call say­ing that six bombs were primed to go off there. 
The three that exploded sent showers of glass into the street and caused heavy damage. British army troops found another and defused it. 
The army reported the 

-~ 
discovery of three unE>xploded bombs outside Belfast during the night, the explosion of a fourth and two shooting inci­dents in the city. One man was hurt, an IRA man shot in the kneecap by his own comrades as punishment. 
IRA sources had said an­nouncement of a new truce could be expected after the were traded. The volume of 9.3 million in the first hour was the highest ever. 

Continuing a trend begun Friday, several major banks dropped their interest rate for prime business loans to 9th per cent from 9% per cent. 
The dollar p-lunged even lower on the Zurich foreign exchange market, opening at an record low of $1 to 2.461 Swiss francs and falling lower billion 
One note of improvement in productivity appeared in the manufacturing sector, where output increased 0.6 per cent in 
.the fourth quarter, compared 'with a 1.3 per cent decline in 
the third quarter. 
As the result of increased wages, fringe benefits and social security payments, com­pensation per manhour rose 8.8 
per cent in the fourth quarter. But because of the 5.1 per cent in decline in output, unit labor costs were pushed up 14.7 per cent. 
In new layoffs, Armstrong Rubber Co. closed its Natchez Miss., tire plant for two weeks' idling 900 employes. Falstarf Brewing Corp. is furloughing 800 workers at six breweries for 
one week. 

in later trading to 2.400 francs.-------------------------­
Violencein Ireland resumes f~~t1eJ.f t~~PJ~~f~d ~~~te~a~o~IJ 
have ended the year with a trade surplus of $14 billion. Although the United States
with several bombings 
imported less oil, the cost 
The dollar has fallen 7 per cent in value in four days in Zurich. 
''There are only sellers and no buyers for the dollar," one currency dealer said. 
Commerce Secretary Frede­rick B. Dent said the trade deficit was "disappointing but not unexpected." He said if the 
soared from $7.8 billion in 1973 to $24.6 billion in 1974. 
prison outside Dublin emerged as an 11th-hour point of Overall, the United States contention. imported $101 billion in goods in 
The men are striking for 1974, a 45 per cent increase better visiting, medical and over 1973 imports of $69.5 educational facilities, but the billn. Exports for 1974 were Dublin government has refused valued at $97.9 billion, up 38 per to give in to their demands. cent from 1973 total of $70.8 
FRESHMAN FOCUSPOINT 
sponsored by WSNDAM 

Freshman Advisory Council presents 
EVERYTHING YOU ALWAYS WANTED TO 
KNOW ABOUT FINANCIAL AID: BUT DIDN'T 
KNOW WHO TO ASK. 
TONIGHT 
1 OPM-11 PM 
on 
WSND 64 


The University of Notre Dame and Saint Marys College on February 4, 1975. 
To find out about IBM and let us find out about you, sign up for an interview at the Placement Office or write to: Mr.l.C. Pfeiffer, College Relations Manager, IBM Corporation, One IBM Plaza, Chicago, Illinois 60611. 
IBM 
weekend, but the hunger strike An equal opponunity employer of 17 IRA men in 
Portlaoise a...--------------------------------------------------_J 
Student Union 
Book exchange is success 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
by Marianne Morgan Staff Reporter 
Almost 500 students participated in the Student Union Book Ex­change held earlier this month. 
According to Rich Golden, Student Services Commissioner, out of over 7,000 books turned in, approximately 40 per cent were sold, generating a sales volume of $4,932. This amounted to an average of $10 rebate per person with the highest being almost $57 to one student. The sales this semester was 1,000 dollars greater than the sales in the fall and over twice as much made a year ago at this timP 
Rich felt the success is due to more efficiently run operation and 
Hesburgh to say Mass for Mullin today on campus 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president of the University of Notre Dame, will be the principal celebrant and eulogist at a Memorial Mass at 5:15p.m. today in Sacred Heart Church for Dr. Charles J. Mullin, chairman and professor in the Department of Physics. The faculty member has been listed as missing since January 5 when he disappeared while mountain climbing in Mexico. 
Dr. Bernard Waldman, dean of the College of Science at Notre Dame, department chairmen a_nd fellow members of the physics faculty will serve as honorary attendants at the Mass. 
The recipient of a doctoral degree from Notre Dame in 1942, Dr. Mullin was appointed to the faculty in 1945 and named chair­man of physics in 1963. He was the author of several articles on theoretical physics and was a director of the Midwestern Universities Research Association. 
Steve Goodnrm comes to Stepan February 6 
Chicago folksinger Steve Goodman will perform at Mardi Gras on Thursday, February 6 at 
8:30 p.m. The concert will take place in Stepan Center and there will be no admission charge in addition to the usual festival en­trance fee. 
"All of the booths will be shut down while Goodman's on stage," reported Student Union Concern Commissioner Rob Kilkuskie, "Distraction and crowd noise should be no problem. Seating will be on the floor area in front of the stage." 
greater trust by the students in the system. As he summed up the service, "students are finding the Book Exchange a more popular way of getting rid of books than Pandoras." 
The book exchangecommittee is still notifying students of their sold books and giving them a last chance to pick up their money from the Student Union 
-Treasurer Louise Nye. Books not picked up will be sold and used to defray the $100 operating costs. 
Brother Moran, in charge of the Notre Dame Bookstore, said the book exchange had no apparent effect on the store's business despite its late orders and late arrivals of books. The volume of sales and number of customers stayed the same. 
Pat Vanek, head of the book department, said that they had ordered more books this semester and had less returns. She felt the low rate of returns was typical of the spring semester due to the greater exchange of books between students and the delay of buying books until later in the semester when the student is assured that book will be used. 

Brother Moran did comment that in the past when the book exchange was highly successful, the bookstore reduced their number of books ordered. He said poor management was the cause of its disappearance until its revival last spring. 
Also, Moran noted despite popular student opinion, the bookstore has no control over the book prices. Manufacturers have raised the prices because of the increase in the price of supplies and paper. 
brirgs a lit!le rrore love 
THEN THAT MAN S LIFE HAS MEANING 
The Crosiers are an Order of Brothers and Priests who see their ministry in light of today's world. If you are interested, call Ed Sellner, O.S.C. at 283-3189. 
Room 327, Holy Cross Hall 
WANTED 
Married couple or male graduate students to act as houseparents for teenage boys in Mishawaka childrens institution. Housing and meals provided. Good salary and fringe benefits. 259-5666 Monday through Fri. 9-5 
Actors actresses to appear in brilliant new play -musical "Kathy Reilly". Call 282-1731 ask for Bill 
FOR SALE 
1974 Porche-1.8 Liter 15000 miles, excellent condition for further info call 288-7068 after 5 
pair Dynaco 825 speakers 1'12 yrs old $120 -233-3495 
4 pc Drum Set. Must sell quick. Call Joe 8678 
For Sale-1965 Ford custom, Four door, automatic-good running condition, with good tires and 2 snow tires -very little rust -$400 cash. 288-2667 
NOTICES 
8-Track Tapes-don't throw them out when they break. I'll buy or repair them for $1. 3526 Joe 
Overseas Jobs-Australia, Europe, S. America, Africa. Students all professions and occupations. $700 to $3000 monthly. Expenses paid, over­
time,  sightseeing.  Free  in­ 
formation  
TRANSWORLD  RESEARCH  CO.  
Dept F3 P.O. Box 603  
Corte Madera, CA.  

Sewing-mending coat shortening etc. experienced -reasonable. 255­5236 after 6 pm 
SIGN-UPS FOR SPRING BREAK TRIP TO MONTEGO BAY DAILY AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE. SPONSORED BY ST. JOE BANK TRAVEL AGENCY. 
TICKETS FOR THE RARE EARTH -PURE FUNK CON­CERT AT MORRIS CIVIC TONIGHT ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE 
TICKETS FOR THE JAN 31 AND FEB I PERFORMANCES OF OH COWARD! STARRING PATRICIA MORRISON AT MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE. 
MONEY? Morrissey Loan will lend up to $150 for 30 days 1 day waiting period. Basement of La Fortune. Daily 11:15-12:15 
Responsible Students desire to rent motorhome for 10 days (March 21 . 30) for trip to Florida. Will pay well. Call Trace 234-1889 
HASH BROWN BLUES BAND NOW AVAILABLE FOR YOUR DANCE, FORMAL, OR PARTY. CALL 272-9895 (evenings) FOR INFORMATION. 
Car problems? Come to Hoffman Bros, Eddy at Madison. Wholesale prices to N D-SMC students, faculty, staff, do-it-yourselfers. Repair service also available. Since 1929. 234-0191 
Will teach Beginning guitar in my home 288-5506 after 7 P.M. 
Anyone ir.terested in flying to Los Angeles over Easter Break for around $150 Please call 299:2757 
Join our North East Day Care parent cooperative plus 4 hours parent participation per week. 9 . 5 232-2233 
"Kathy Reilly" is coming 
Here's what they're saying about the Woody A len Film Festival: "Witty, comical, jocular" ­Roget•s Thesauraus "Lotta Dollars"-K. Lee, CAC Commissioner "I Forget" T. Schneider 
Men-Women! -Jobs on Ships! No experience· 
required. Excellent pay, Worlrl­
wide Travel. Perfect summer job 
or career. Send $3.00 for in­
formation. 
SEAFAX, Dept. G-13 P.O. Box 
2049, Port Angeles, Wash. 
1955 Gibson Les Paul. 1929 National resonator guitar. Expert Repair Service. Discount on Strings. Sunflower Music Shop 632 Portage Ave. 
FOR RENT 
3RoomA~-~reM~5mM~. 
Call 288-9533 or 232-8392 
Attention of Campus Rentees. 3 BR House. New carpet redecoration. Can take 3 or 4. Available for balance of this semester & sum­mer. 287-7818 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: Key ring Sat. in SMC Tunnel or Regina Basement. Reward. Call Mary 4537 
Lost Kings point SC-40 calculator. Vicinity Niewland science hall. Reward. Call Mike 7758 
Hitchiker lost 1 ski mitten in car 
Tues  nite  1-21-75.  Architecture  
student  or  people  in  Mustang.  
Please call 232-9747  

Lost-one sterling silver and turquoise earring if found call 1328 
FOUND I tan, small size corderoy fleece (lined) coat. Contact lost & found in Lib. 
PERSONALS 
Cathy & Rose, How about a midnight swim in Fla? The trio from "B" line 
TO H.C. 338 -(except Burs) DOES IT REALLY GIVE YOU I.O.'S TO BE MASSAGED? IF SO, WHAT ARE YOUR PARLOR HOURS? Yours-"THE PIETTES" 
P.S. BUT BURS-WHAT DID GO ON DURING THOSE MISSING HOURS?. 
THERE ONCE WAS A FELLOW NAMED HADLEY WHOSE PIEING THEY SAY WENT QUITE BADLY HE HAD THE POTENTIAL BUT NOT THE ESSENTIAL WHEN HE READS THIS HE'LL 
I KILL US ALL GLADLY. 
-~ 


Sky-high Irish come down to face Western Michigan
by Bill Brink 
After you reach the moon, where do you go? 
The only thing you can do is come down, back to earth, and prepare to face the smaller, more mundane problems in life. That's what Irish basketball coach Digger Phelps and his players will have to do now after having reached their heights Saturday afternoon by upsetting the UCLA Bruins for the second year in a row. 
Once a year the spectacle hits South Bt-nd and it all comes to a front in the ACC. When UCLA coach John Wooden and his team march onto the floor of the convo Pach winter. It is what every Irish fan has waited to see; it is the gamt• of the season. Usually UCLA is ranked number I in the nation; usually they are undefeated and on their way to another national · championship. But even if they aren't invincible and maybe not the best team on the Irish schedule, for Notre Dame fans, they are still the only game in town. Everyone wants to beat the big, bad Bruins. 
-:-;;;_:.
.\\: ('' 
. 
.·., ,,. 
';,\': ."' 
.: .... 
if
__ ,·,;-_ 

And so the Irish reached their bight point with an outstanding performance and a well-deserved victory over UCLA, an now must come back down to earth. There are no more Goliaths to conquer, at least not until the hoped-lor NCAA tournament bid, but there are a number of fine teams that Phelps and crew ·must not look past. 
First on the list is a trip to Kalamazoo and a contest with the Western Michigan Broncos. 
W.M.U. holds a 10-6 record, 4-3 in the Mid-American Confer Con­ference. 
Head coach Eldon Miller returns 7 lettermen including four starters to help the Broncos try to make up, ground on their 7-16 all-time record against the Irish. Leading the attack will be 6-3 forward Jeff Tyson who tops all Bronco scorers with a 13.9 per gamescoring average. Talented sophomore Tom Cutter has taken over the center position and contributed 
12.2 points per game along with a 
8.2 rebounding average. Forward Paul Griffin leads all 
SCORING LEADER Adrian Dantley will try to maintain his 32.0
.. 
scoring average aqainst Western Michigan tonight. 
Pete McHugh==:::::===========:::=:::::::::=:::::====::::====::=:::::=:=:=:::::=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:::::::::::: 
Extra Points 
:::::::;.::;.::::;.;.;./;.;.::;.;.;.:::::::::·:·:::.::;.:::::::::::.=-=-=-:-=·=-: The Digger's game 
The upset that Digger Phelps engineered Saturday afternoon might be the finest individual performance ever by a basketball coach at Notre Dame. 
His Irish, as the experts said, should have been easy marks for the big, had Bruins and the coaching genius of John Wooden. Notre Dame was unranked, inexperienced, and lacking in overall talent. . , 
UCLA was ranked second in the country. They had had "their upset a week ago against Stanford. They had the height, the speed, f.1e talent. They had "the coach." And they had the memories of a year ago to spur them on. 
What they didn't have and what they couldn't reckon with though was Digger and his power of positive thinking. . 
With only four days to prepare for the game, Phelps began to get his players in the right frame of mind by r~instit';Jting_la~t year:s pre-~CL~ drill of cutting down the nets ceremomously m practice. Fnday mght It was more of the same with the triumphant return of John Shumate, last year's Mr. Everything, at an ACC pep rally. . . . 
On Saturday, the psychological warfare took another direction with ~he help of the Notre Dame athletic department: First t~ere w11:s the ha~ntmg presence of Shumate in so~e kind of green JUmp smt flashmg tht; victory sign to the crowd. At halftime came Dan Devme, Ara Parseghian, and Phelps who each told the fans they were the greatest in the world. After these and periodically other reminders of a year ago <and the greater glory of Notre Dame l, Wooden and his Bruins no doubt had the idea upon whose floor they were playing. 
Meanwhile, back at the game, the Irish were playing with the kind. of enthusiasm and confidence that Phelps had exuded all week. Adnan Dantley wheeled and dealed for 32 points whild holding ~ll-Americ.an candidate Dave Meyers to half that total and only one pomt the entire first half. 
Ray Martin was also superb doing things like blocking three shots and making an impossible fall-away-bank-shot. . 
Forward Bill Paterno scored eight clutch points in the closing mmutes and led the team with ten rebounds. Toby Knight continued his improved play with 12 points while Dwight Clay, Peter Crotty, and Dave Kuzmicz complemented the team effort. 
With a little more than six minutes left, Phelps' installed a four corner weave offense that virtually controlled the ball for the remainder of ~e game. In a perfectly executed use of thi~ stall, UCLA h~d to. foul the Irish five times before putting Notre Dame m the bonus situation for a foul shot. 
In the end it became clearly a case of the Bruins having to play Digger's game. They had been outplayed, outcoached, and outpsyched. And nobody, not even John Wooden, can win at that game. 
Bronco rebounders with a 9.3 average while also putting in over nine points a game. 6-4 guard Jimmie Harvey heads up the backcourt, averagin~ 11.3 points per game. He is jomed bv Jim Kurzen. who compiled a record 114 assists last season. 
Phelps and the Irish meanwhile are looking to avoid any letdown or complacency after their stunning victory Forwards Adrian Dantley and Bill Paterno will trv to con­tinue their excellent play,, but lately there have been some new faces adding the extra spark to the Irish attack. Sophomore Toby Kight contributed 12 points 
against the Bruins to compliment his 19 point performance in last weeks Holy Cross game. Guard Hay <Dice) Martin excelled in his role as leader of the offense and added 10 surprising and often dazzling points of his won own. 
Most importantly, the Irish have now gained the confidence they need to go on and finish a successful season and hopefully earn an NCAA tournament bid. 
"This is just what the team needed to turn the season around," said center Peter Crotty after the win over UCLA. "We're headed in the right direction." 
"This makes us 9-6 and we cna go all the way," he added Adrian Dantley. 
Going all the way includes making their way through the final 11 games of the season, but eight of the games are at home, and as UCLA will tell you, winning in the ACC is no easy matter. After tonight's contest at Western Michigan, the Irish return for four straight home games, beginning with Xavier this Saturday afternoon. 
Women fencers 
win two,drop one 
The Notre Dame women's fencing squad won twice while dropping a third meet last weekend in Detroit to bring their season record to 3-2. The women fencers defeated Michigan 7-2, clinching the match by the sixth bout, and went on to squeeze by Bowling Green 5-4. The Notre Dame ladies suffered their only loss to a highly competitive Wayne State team, losing !i-3. 
The scoring was led by Sally I<'ischer and Kathy Valdiserri, both 5-3 for the afternoon, followed by Captain Dindy Rebholz, 4-3. The other two members of the travelling squad were Cathey Buzard {1-li and Trish O'Donnell 
(0-2). 
The women's fencing squad will be at home next weekend against Wisconsin Parkside, Tri-State and Marquette Universities. 
•

Sa:llorS COmmence • t• •t•
Spr1ng QC 1Vl leS 
As last semester ended, the Notre Dame Sailing Club had plenty of things to talk about. Over Thanksgiving, Buzz Reynold­s,Dave Constants, and· Bruce Marek lead the team to an eighth place finish out of eighteen schools at the Timmie Angston Regatta, the equivalent of a fall national championship regatta. After this fine performance Yacht Racing ranked Notre Dame as tenth in collegiate sailing in December. 
On this positive note, the club started its Spring semester ac­tivities with the New Officers Banquet, which was held last Friday. The new officers elected were Bruce Marek, C~mmodore; Buzz Reynolds, Racmg Team Captain; Mike Wullaert, Vice Commodore; Bill Ryan, Rear Commodore; Carole Froling, Treasurer; and Meme Hanson, C Secretary. The SailingClub holds regular meetings on Wednesdays at 6:30 in room 204 of the Engineering Building. Anyone desiring more information should contact one of the officers or attend one of the meetings. 

• 
TOBY KNIGHT had his second excellent performance in a row against the Bruins Saturday, scoring 12 points. Here he leaps for a jump ball in last weeks' Holy Cross game. 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 

Greg Corgan 
The Irish Eye 

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=-H 
the Shu fits 

For Digger Phelps, beating UCLA was a multi-faceted operation. There 
was more to it than just preparing his team physically. 
For example, it was no accident that during practice Friday the 
scoreboard read 70-59 with 3:22 to play for part of the afternoon and 71-70 
with 0:00 for the other part. Nor was the pep rally Thursday night a 
spontaneous affair. It was all part of the Phelps master plan. 
Another part, and no small part, 6'9" to be exact, was the appearance of 
the ever-glad-to-be-in-the-spotlight John Shumate. Shu fit into Digger's 
plan perfectly and if you talk to John you'd think he was the key to 
Saturday's win. 
Was your presence in the arena instrumental to Notre Dame's win? 
"Of course it was," answers Shu modestly. "I was here to give my 
former teammates some moral inspiration by being on the bench and I 
hoped that I did. I saw that they had confidence before the game though, 
so I didn't have to say anything in the locker room.'' 
Shu makes such assertions with a twinkle in his eye, something being 
with the NBA'x Phoenix Suns has yet to take away, but the former Irish 
center sees pro basketball as a rugged occupation. 
"It's different in the pro's," relates Shu. "It's dog eat dog. The players 
are stronger, bigger, quicker and faster than they were in college. Only 
the strong survives in the NBA. It's a tough business." 
So far it's been just as tough for Shumate to even suit up and play. Blood 
clots sidelined John during preseason and everything in the X-rays has 
been negative since. Shu will not be back in action until next year. 
"I take X-rays every month," John says, "and I've been working out slowly. I shoot around and play a lot of tennis, but I can't get into anyphysical contact for a while. I feel pretty good though." 
Since Shumate can't play this year, he is under contract to do the color commentary for the Phoenix Suns telecasts, a complication which almost prevented his arrival for UCLA. "But," says John, "I just told them I had to go -duty called." 
It wasn't all that easy, but Digger needed another piece to fit the winning puzzle. "Digger's persistent," smiles Shumate."He never gave up until I was out here. It's persistence that gives a man that competitive edge." 
Shu was greeted with the customary ovation he usually received as a player at the pep rally Thursday and before the game Saturday. It never crossed his mind that he might be booed for "leaving." "I expected the applause," he says, "that's what Notre Dame is all about. People aren't down on me for graduating, they know why I did it. People still treat me as one of the family." 
"But I'll tell you, I sure would liked to have been out there Saturday. I guess I was close enough, though. The crowd here is tremendous. I don't think you can put it in words. They give the players drive, motivation, and probably, most importantly, confidence." 
Is it like that in Phoenix? 
"No," says Shu, "the fans aren't as rah-rah, at least not yet. Just wait until 1. start playing next year. You know, I'm persistent too -I'll be back." 
No doubt, but if he isn't, Shu can always be Digger's "crowd­coordinator" at Notre Dame. 



