
·~
' . 
War orphans flee to U.S. families 
Ford on hand to welcome Vietnamese children 
l'nited Prt>ss International initial military arilift last Friday. Aboard the plane welcomed by 
Hundreds of orphans crossed a f'ord were some survivors of the 10,000 mile air bridge Sunday Saigon plane crash. from war-ravaged Vietnam to a Tear" were mlxeci with laughter new life as adopted children in as the hundreds of children were America tak·~n from the, planes to face 
A giant jetliner landed in Seattle strangers in a new land. Among at 12:35 a.m. with 40i orphans, and thost· in the Jargcst of the baby lifts the unprrcedentPd airlift con­arriving at Seattle was three-year­tinued through the day with two old Yo Ho, clutching his iden­planes carrying i36 small children tification card, who whimpered headed for Travis Air Force Base, occasionally as an attendant 50 miles northeast of San Fran-carried him to his foster parents. cisco. A poignant scene occurred when :\lore orphans to arrivt> an eight-year--Qld boy, with both feet in heavy braces and walking
Another flight carrying 62 
on crutches . shook his head andchildren was en route to Van­refused to go with his new mother, couver. B.C. to pick up another 380 a small blond woman.
orphans and ferry them to Travis Both the Vietnamese woman on Tuesday. 
who had accompanied the boy and 
Dramatizing the nation's 
foster mother broke into sobs while growing concern for the orphans, an airport Pmployeepicked up the
President Ford flew to San 
crying child and carried him to anFrancisco Saturday night from his 
exit. 
Pal~prings vacation to welcome Confusion at airport319 children and to carry two in­fants onto US soil through a driving 
The babylift to Seattle was rain. · sponsored by the Holt Adoption Fourteen of the children on the 
Agency. SomP of the adoptive San Francisco flight had chicken 
parents had been waiting for as pox, but doctors said there was no 
long as two years to get a child. dange·r-lo the Pr~~~nt. Ford's In the confusion at the airport wife, Betty, accompamed him to two couples were unable to find 
San Francisco, but she was not 
their children, and hours after allowed to enter the Operation 
their arrival some of the children Babylift plane because treatment were still sitting on the concourse after her recent breast cancer floor awaiting the arrival of theri 
surgery may have removed her 
new parents. Officials attributed immunity to chicken pox. theirlongwaitto the fact that some children had identical immigration 
Fords "dt>t>ply touched" numbers. The Rev. Mark Halloway, 
The White House said the Tigard, Ore., was the first to pick President decided on the night up his adopted child, a four-month­flight to San Francisco in­old son who will be named Curtis ternational Airport because the Lee. Fords were "deeply touched" by "This was going to be my first the plight of thousands of innocent day at our new church,"Halloway orphans in South Vietnam. said. "Now I don't know if I'll be 
The flights to San Francisco and there or if I'll be in any shape to go Seattle were Pan American 747's. if I can." Two other of the mercy missions Although many of the children headed for Travis Air Force Base were fearful, others in Seattle were were on Air· Force planes-the first in a playful mood, turning the since the disastrous crash of the airport corridors into a gigantic 
Death near for 

many orphans arriving in u.s. 
By C'ARL INGRAM t'nited Press International 
-!'th-"'tl('ttt-c-medical situation'' developed Sunday among the :n9 orphans flown Saturday night from Vietnam to San Francisco. 
Doctors disclosed that 47 babies from the flight that was wPlcomed by President Ford were being treated in hospitals. SomP wt>re survivors of last Friday's crash of a military plane that killed 178 persons in a rice paddy near Saigon. 
ThE' children were lll'ing cared for a hundreds of other orphans crossed a 10.000-mile air bridge from war-ravaged \'1etnam to a new life in America. 
"This is an acute medical situation." Dr. Alex Stalcup said at the Presidio military base in San Francisco where most of the babies wPre taken after leaving their airlift plane last Saturday. "Our rersources are now stretched to \'apacity _ Of the infants at the Presidio right now, by 
\mPrican standards. at least half should be in a hospital right 
now_" .\bout :!Oo children were being cared for at the temporary facility while awaiting processing before joining their adopti\'e parents. Staleup said more than 30 of the babies were ·'unquestionably near death" when taken off the Pan .\mPrican 747 about 12 hours earlier. "They are very small infants-six, seven or Pight J~ounds s." Stalcup said. ·'Some were profoundly dehydrated, some \\'Prt' in shock. Thirty--Qne who were taken off were con­sidered acutelv ill." The dehydration was caused by diarrhea, high fever and madequate supplies on the plane, he said. During the flight dol'tors ran out of bottles of fluid to supply the babies stricken hv diarrhea. or :ll babies taken from the airport in ambulances. most \H're given intravenous feeding immediately. Some of the survivors of the Saigon crash had infected sutures from \rounds and injuries suffered in the accident; fourteen suf­fen•d from chickenpox. Two hundred doctors and the same numberof nurses had \ olunteered to help with the babies,but Dr. Mark Oscherwitz said still more were needed. (>!her planes filled with orphans were winging their way to ,.\nwrica. 
playpen. Older boys played soccer appearpd .o be seriously ill. "As I walked across the floor this 
and tag. 
The youngsters cleared by morning, I saw very little crying," 
doctors \H'rP taken to a housing he said. "There were very few 
:\'early all adopted center converted from a truck temper tantrums, but the children 
maintenance shop at the Presidio weren't smiling." 
Sixteen of the children. all less a~my base in San Francisco. Each child had an attendant at than a year old, were taken to a ..:v Maltresses covered the floor. On all times so those who awoke would hospital where the nursing hand were 7,886 bottles of formula see a human Cafe. There were supt>rvisor said they ha•: symp­and a; least 10.000 disposable enough mattresses for 800 toms of ehicken pox and measles. diapers, alon~ with gallons of baby children. On the walls were posters 
l"\t~arly all of the orphans powder and ',440 aspirin. of Little Bo Peep and Humpty 
arriving in the U.S. have been Some of the San Francisco Dumpty, and a playroom was set adopted. At Seattle 76 children arrivals were survivors of up with roller toys, tricycles, small were transferred to a plane going Friday's crash that killed 178 in a desks, crayons and coloring books. 

I 
to Chicago and 56 were bound for rice paddy outside of Saigon. The save-the-children program 

1
New York City. Wayne Eisenheart, a represen­began last Wednesday when a 

1
In San Francisco, 31 orphans tative of the Friends of All • group of 52 orphans arrived in went to 6 hospitals in am­Children. adoption agency, said Oakland, Calif., on a World Air­bulances, accompanied by doctors some of the children had cuts, ways plane. On Saturday night 18 and nurses. In addition to chicken scratches. and bruises. He said 98 came into San Frnacisco on a Pan pox they were suffering from per cent of them were under six American plane via Guam and such ailments as pneumonia, months old. A few were five and six Honolulu bef<>re the arrival of the 
dehydration, and infections. Three years old. 319 greeted by the President. 
un1versdy of notre dame st mary's college 
Vol. IX, No. 108 Monday, April 7, 1975 



Robert Indiana speaks to Women's Art League 
h~· !\Iegan Wolff 
Staff Hveo•·tt>r. • •. 
. :.t· ...· ... ~·z,,. ...~.. ••··• Hobert Indiana. nationally known as the dPsigner of the best-selling Love stamps. talked Sunday afternoon to an audience largely com­posed of thP Women's Art League of the South Iil·nd Art Cmter in the Little Theater at St. l\Iary's. The lecture consisted of a question-and­answPr session between Indiana and the audience. preceded by a movie illustrating In­diana's dPvelopmmt and identity as an artist. 
Fa~dnalt'd "ith words The formt>r Hoosier. who changed his name to Indiana as a tribute to the people of his home statP. l'Ommt>nted on various topics such as his nwans and theory of expression. exhibitions past and forth-coming. and major influences and IdPas in his art. Indiana said, "I would be a pPople's painter as well as a painter's painter," though hP acknowledged that the popularization of his art has had a "demeaning" effect. As a n•sult of his art's infiltration into popular culture. his studies-t>specially the Love study ­haw bt>come "the most ripped-off visual thing of tht> lwPntieth century." Indiana said his art has been construed Protically rather than spiritually, in opposition to 
I
his original intent. 
.The :\riwrican Dream and the word are the 
focus points of his art. "Pop art." stated Indiana, 
"is the l'xpression of life in the city." Believing J 
that "the word is an appropriate and fit subject ROBERT INDIANA presents Aileen Buroughs
of art." Indiana has hoped to be able to "put one of the Women's Art League with a copy of his most 
word mos!.economically and most forcefully into famous creation. Mr. Indiana's LOVE theme has 
one area. 
appeared in sculpture, tapesry, painting and on a 
U.S. postage stamp. A native of Indiana, he traces
1.(1\ (' stud_\ "ripllf'd-off" 
the ideas behind most of his works back to his liP professed an interest in simple statement Hoosier childhood. and in basic. short elementary words and con­
Speaking of the Louisianan exhibition at
cepts. such as "eat", "hug'', "love", etc. In­
!\:otre Dame. the artist explained that the exhibit 
diana has found much inspiration for his works 
was part of the Confederacy series, a series
spurrl'd by his interest in integration problems in
the South. "The Confederacy series was simply a
statPmt•nt of guilt." explained Indiana.
the attitude of a sign painter in order to remain in 
All of Indiana's works are parts of specific
touch with the tempo of American life_ Indiana's 
fascination with words extends to many areas; 
he is hoping to begin a series with the names of 
,.\mPrican l'ities since he is entranced with some 
Indiana discussed the abuse of his copyright
of their namcs-notably Kankakee and Kokomo. 
privileges resulting from the popularity of his
llis training at school, Indiana said, and his 
work_ ))pscribing himself as "basically
background at the Art Institute of Chicago 
pt•aceful... Indiana has chosen not to become
substantialeontribution to my art" until he met 
an\' easv work."
Osworth Kl'!ly as a [Jt'nniless artist in New York. 
'fhe t973 winner of the "Indiana Arts ('om­
(Is worth was the "friend, teacher. and mentor" 
mission :\ward" also extended his appreciation
who ht>lpt•d him find "what should be my ex­
to Saint l\lary's for being the site of his first
pression. tempPrmentally and emotionally." 
graphics Pxhib1tion back in 1969.
Indiana is also an admirer of LPger. 

2 the observer__ Monday, April 7, 1975 
I
I 
' 
f 
world briefs 

BUENOS AIRES (UPI) --Six bodies riddled with bullets and with explosives wired to their hands were found Sunday along a desolate dirt road near Ezeiza International Airport on the outskirts of Buenos Aires. 
WASHINGTON (UPI) House Republican leader Gerald R. Ford--to the amazed anger of the Nixon White House­-personally authored the 1973 compromise ban on military involvement in Indochina, according to an interview published for the first time Sunday. 
The ban, product of a 
misunderstanding between 
Ford and Nixon aides, would 
today block President Ford 
from sending any troops, planes 
or warships to defend South 
Vietnam or Cambodia. 
BELFAST {UPI) --Shootings 
and bombings killed 10 persons 
and injured at least 80 more in 
the bloodiest weekend in Belfast. 
in two years. 
The newest sectarian attacks 
came while the Irish 
Republican Army was 
threatening to call off the cease­
fire it declared in Northern 
Ireland Feb. 10. 
MOSCOW <UPI) --The Soviet 
union announced early Monday 
that a spacecraft carrying two 
cosmonauts aborted its mission 
Saturday, tearing away from a 
booster rocket shortly after 
launch and managed an 
emergency landing in the 
mountains of Western Siberia. 
Thz official Tass news agency 
said the two cosmonauts, Col. 
Vasily Lazarev and civilian 
Oleg Makarov, survived the 
ordeal and are now "feeling 
well." 
an campus taday 
12:30 pm --mass, fr. robert griffin, celebrant, Iafortune ballroom. 
4:00 pm --lecture, "kinetic parameter estimation from integral laboratories and plant data" by prof. dr. banns hot­mann, radiation laboratory conference room. 
5:00pm--evensong vespers, log chllpel. 
7:00pm--ballroom dllnclng, by fran demarco, Iafortune dddd­
ballroom. 
7:30 
pm •• lecture. "pofltlal problems and water con­servation" by lames lontz, · arrotl Nlll. 

7:30 
pm •. lecture, tran­scendental medltltatlon, 24f madelev• Nlll. 


8:00 pm --philosophy per­spective series, "can ultimate moral disagreements be rationally resolved?" by dr. alan gewirth, galvin life science center aud. 




&~...--""" 
CAR PROBLEMS? 
DON'T GET RIPPED OFF ON PARTS 
FOR YOUR CAR! 
WE HAVE PARTS FOR MOST AMERICAN & FOREIGN ,CARS AVAILABLE AT WHOLESALE PRICES 

HOFFMAN BROS.
t 
I 1101 E. MADISON ! 234-0181 
Search for Dean of Law· School continues 'With ne"W approach 
by Chris Meehan Staff Reporter 
After a seven week search, a replacement to the retiring Dean of the Law School, Thomas Shaffer, has not been found. . 
As in the past the selection process will be a co-operative venture between the faculty and the Administration. However this time the choice of the law school dean will be made without the use 
Jontz to speak on political problems 
"Political Problems and Water Conservation" will be the topic of the seventh lecture in the Water Conservation series to be held 
Monday, April 7, at 7:30p.m. in Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's College. 
Guest speaker for the evening will he James Jontz, member of the Indiana House of Represen­tatives, 20th House district, who will discuss what is being done environmentally in Indiana this year, and what is being planned for the future. 

Bikes released today, tomorrow 
Students who checked their bicycles with the Ombudsman Bike Storage Service may pick them up today and tomorrow between noon and 4 p.m. 
Bicycles can be picked up at the main gate under the press box. Students are asked to present their yellow claiming tickets to the security official at the gate. 
The Observer is published (.;lily during the college semester except vacations by the stuoents of the University of Notre Dame •nd St. Mary's College. SubScriptions may be purchased for S9 per semester (S16 per year) from The Observer Box· Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
STEWART MCGUIRE SHOES 
With the Spring Step cushion 
DAD & FAMILY 503 N. Blaine Ave. So. Bend 234-4469 
of a search committee. According to Shaffer, the new approach not only generates candidates, the normal role of search committees, but also involves lawyers in the selection. 
Universtiy Provost Fr. James Burtchaell wrote to each of the 4,000 members of the Notre Dame Law Association asking for suggestions to fill the office. The most promising candidates will visit the campus. 
During their stay the candidates will be interviewed by the Faculty Committee of the Student Bar Association. Reports will be made by the committee on all the can­didates except those who are presently on the faculty of the University. This is to preserve objectivity. After students asked for a voice in the selection process, Burtchaell granted the Student 
Bar Association  the right  to  in­ 
terview  candidates  and  make  
recommendations.  

Faculty Committee Chairman Tom Schoaf is unsure of what effect his committee's reports will have on the final choice. As of yet, the new procedure has provided for only one candidate form out­side the University to be in­terviewed. While there is no in­dication that a choice has been made. it is reasonably certain that the selection will be made by the end of the current semester, Schoaf said. 
ANNOUNCEMENT  
Graduate Student Union  
Election Nominations  
Applications now being accepted for offices of President, Vice President, Secretary-Treasurer.  the and  

Submit nominations to Bill Smith-Hinds or Carol, 1200 Lib. 
MICHIGAN STREET o.ADULT THEATRES 
* 2 FILMS 
* 
BOOKSTORE 

* 
LIVE FLOOR SHOW 


1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET cAll 282· i 2()f, ~-t)R I~F()RA~ATl()N 

It Hcippened 
aark Gable Claudette Colbert 
Tuesday and Wednesday 
EngineeringAud. 
Admission is $1.00 Cinema 75 patrons 
free 




ATTENTION 
ALL 


RADUATIN STUDENTS 
Measurements will be taken for 
CAPS and GOWNS 
WEDNESDAY
, 
April 9 
and 
THURSDAY April 10 
between 
9:00-4:00 
at the 


NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 


One Night 
Monday, April 7, 1975 the observer 
----------------~~~~~~--------

InPIRG organizes petition dr.ive 
by Mary Janca to the Student Assembly for con­General areasof InPIRG con­Saint 1\l:ufs Editor cideration, according to Joanie cern include racial and sexual Durlacher, vice-president for discrimination, consumer
Final plans for a petition drive, 
academic affairs. protection, occupational safety,needed to form a St. Mary's Pending final approval, the protection of natural areas andchapter of the Indiana Public organization will be officially environmental quality, landlord­
Interest Research Group 
established on campus for the next tenant relations and communityOnPIRG >, were agreed upon last academic year. housing problems, and health care.
night at an organizational meeting The group contends that students 
of the group. According to Mark Clark, for­can gain from InPIRG becauseThe drive, scheduled to run from mer member of theNotre Dame InPIRG provides students with antoday until Friday, will be con­InPIRG board, the establishment effective and independent voice,
ducted in the residence halls. of a St. Mary's chapter would have provides students with the meansApproximately 60 to 70 percent several advantages over par­for making real and far-reachingof the student hocty must sign the ticipating in Notre Dame's. 
social change, and the opportunity 
petition before a proposal con­Presently. said Clark, "there is cerning the formation of a SMC no real participation from St. to learn the means involved in 
making a change. and InPIRGInPIRG chapter can be presented Mary's in lni'IHG." 
projects give students the chance 
If SMC were to form its own 
to integrate their classroom work
Class elections chapter, an increased amount of in the "real world". Academic 
money would be available to 
credit is often available to those
will be held support InPIRG, he continued. 
working on such projects.
St. Mary's could also investigate 
Out~f-state students, according 
this Wednesday its own concerns, as well as have to InPIRG members, spend two­representation on the state level, 
thirds of their year in Indiana.
by Mark Jahne 

noted Clark. 
Changes effected by InPIRG will
Staff Reporter 

InPIRG, a statewide non-profit directly affect them. Also, judicial 
Junior and Senior Class Officers organization composed of college and legislative precedents set in for next year will be chosen in an and university students, lawyers, Indiana through InPIRG will have election to be held on Wednesday, engineers and natural and social an impact on the laws of other 
April 16. Interested tickets must scientists, "investigates broad states. pick up petitions at the Om­
social problems which are of Funding of the organizationsbudsman office by 5 p.m. this 
concern to Indiana students comes from student contributions. 
afternoon Each member of the 
generally, represents student­According to Clark, should InPIRG four person ticket must acquire 25 citizen causes before the courts, be approved on campus, eachsignatures on the petition. The the legislature. and the public," student will be asked to contribute deadline for turning the petitions is states a hand~ut on the group. $4 per year. The fee would appear
8 p.m. on Thursday, April loth. Outgoing Senior Class President Greg Ericksen remarked, "We'd 
St. Mary's to enforce stiff 
like to have as many people in the race as possible." He noted that in past years only a few tickets have 

guidelines for registration
run. "We'll have a meeting for all 
This year advance registration Regarding the problem of Notrepeople running to go over the rules forms for the Fall Semester 1975-76 Dame students filling up courses
and regulations at 8 p.m. on April 10 in the student government 
will not be given out to the students before St. Mary's students could several days ahead of time. Ac­get into them, Kennedy said, "Wemeeting room." Ericksen added. 
cording to Sister M. Francesca ctidn 't discuss that at the meeting. 
Campaigning will begin at mid­
Kennedy. Acting Vice-President Notre Dame students have just asmight on Saturday, April 12. 
for SMC Academic Affairs, the much of a right to get into ourWhen asked what qualities the Academic Affairs Office is going to courses as St. Mary's studentsvoters should look for in a class 
try to be more rigorous in en­have."
president. Ericksen emphasized 
forcing the guidelines for
organizational skills. "Bei~g ab~e "Labs and studios are a problem
registration as they were
to organize people to do thmgs IS because of the much smaller space 
originally set up.
probably most improtant." he that is available. Seniors will have 
At an Academic Affairs meeting 
said. Ericksen also noted that, to get there first if they want to get
which took place two weeks before 
because the job entails so much in." Kennedy added.
spring vacation. it was decided
work. that the voters should. 
that seniors would register on the Registration forms and in­"Make sure the people have the first day of pre-registration, structions will be~ distributed bytime to put into it." 
juniors on the second day, the Registrar's Office, 139 LeMansEricksen expressed his feeling sophomores on the third day and Hall. to iuniors and seniorsthat "It's no place for a joke freshmen on the fourth day. beginning at 8:00a.m., Thursday,candidate-there's too much work "We are going to try to hold April 10. Sophomores can pick upto be done." Before voting, strictly to this schedule in order to their registration forms on Friday,Ericksen hopes students will try to curb the problems we have April 11, freshmen on Monday,"Really listen to what the people had with registration in the past," April 1oi and other students, onhave to say." 
Kennedy stated. Tuesday. April 15.
Many duties are involved with the job of Junior or Senior class officer. Among other things, senior class officers are incharge 
LUNCH AT BULLA 
of the Senior Club graduation, senior football trip, senior fellow 
with

voting, parents' weekend, and alumni reunions. 
Prof. Joe Evans 
Ericksen believes that the job of class officer is to help provide an 
Meet the faculty in an 
enjoyable time for the students. ··senior class officers are a student 
informal setting on 
service," he added. The present senior class officers 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9th
will run the election for both the junior and senior classes. Voting on the 16th will be held in the halls 
between 12-1:15
during lunch and dinner hours. 

on the bill along with the yearly $29 student government fee. Payment of the fee is voluntary, although InPIRG members \l·ontend that all students will benefit from their actions. 
Individual contributions are not provide a steady source of funding. "It is unlikely that high quality professionals will be willing to work if they can't be assured their employer ( InPIRG) will have a reliable yearly income with which will have a reliable yearly income 


IMPORTANT NOTICE MOVIE BIDS THIS WEEK ONL V 
Bids for movie dates next semester will be taken this week (April 7-11) only. Call Student Union Film Coordinator, Mike O'Connor, at 6244, from 12:30-1:30pm Mon. thru Fri., or leave a written request with the secretary in Fr. Schlaver's Student Ac­tivities Office, 1st floor, LaFortune. Date preference wiII be awarded by lottery. Priority will be given to clubs and organizations which did not show a film this semester. It is not necessary to plan a specific film at this time, but bids must be made sometime this week to make your club, organization or hall eligible for a date next semester. 
RESERVED SEATS ssse, S45l S35l 
CHILD UNDER 12 HALf-PRICl 
TICKETS ON SALE NOW AT AUD. BOX-OfrtCE 
MAIL ORDlRS TO IIOIRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUI 211 Jl lllt•UII ST. SO. IEMD, IND. 46611 £11CLOSE SELF-MDIUS£1. STAIIPU RETUII EmLOPE! 

·•. 
~. 


the observer Monday, April 7, 1975 
U.S. airlift continues despite Red attack 
PHNOM PENH <UPI> simultaneous assaults on virtu-about as many people as we suffered two killed and six miles down Highway 4. Rebel Communist forces Sun-ally all sides of the capital's could and still function," one wounded. Rebels cut Highway 4 at a day attacked this beseiged defense perimeter, field reports source said. Details of the fall of Neak point 12 miles west of the capital from all sides and said. In Sunday's fighting, govern­Luong began to trickle into the capital and fired barrages of rained rockets on its airport in But the rocket attack still ment troops lost 17 killed and capital. In addition to the lost 105 millimeter artillery into the another attempt to sever the failed to stop the American 96 wounded. Rebel gunners also troops and commander, govern­nearby towns of Ang Snoul and city's lone remaining supply airlift which has become shot down a Cambodian Air ment sources said, the rebels Bek Chan. One civilian was link to the outside world. Phnom Penh's only way to Force C47 gunship west of seized 12 105mm artillery killed and eight others woun­
The government also learned bring in supplies. At least t:-vo Phnom Penh. The seven-man pieces, 70 60mm machineguns, ded. that its defeat Tuesday at Neak of the U.S. planes left With crew was presumed either 30 30mm machineguns and Sources in Phnom Penh said Luong 31 miles down the Com-\ some ~ .S. embas~y personnel, killed or captured. hundreds of small arms. Gen. Meas. Dim. a personal
. t t II d M kong River Inciudmg Cambodian workers. Government troops also aban-assista_nt of President Lon Nol, 
mum~ -con ro e e ' The embassy -the lone doned another eight positions Government forces reported who himself left the country for cost It some 5,000 troops-all cap-diplomatic mission still operat-west of the capital, along 
some success in pushing exile last week, departedlured by the rebels. ' ing in Phnom Penh -was Highway 4, and failed again to insurgents out of a school they -Phnom Penh during the day for 
reduced to about 30 or 40 push back a new insurgent had taken at Kompong Speu, 24 Laos. 
Hebel troops entrenched five staffers, down from the nearly threat to the southeast. Govern­miles from the_ cit~ sent more 200 of just. a week ago, embassy ment forces at Svay Rolou, six rockets ~hundermg mto Pochen-sources said. miles southeast of here, came North Quad, SMC tO host 
tong Airport and launched "We have taken out just under heavy attack, and 
Journalist Robert Dietschbegins picnics during An Tostal t'No-w-eek engagement at SMC 
h.\' :\lar~ .Janca 

As an added feature to the Notre 
Sl. :\hu·~··s Editor 

Dame picnic, Siegel announced that all women attending the picnic will be given a numbered pink button and men will be a numbered blue button, courtesy of McDonald's. 
Persons who successfully find their numerical natch will be awarded a free hamburger meal from McDonald'.s. "This will be an extr~ incentive for people to come to the picnic," Siegel stated. 
the observer 
Night Editor: Andy Praschak Assistant Night Editor: Marti Hogan Layout Staff: Kathy Skiba Day Editor: Mary Reher Copy Readers: Fred Herbst, Ken 
Off-campus students may Bradford purchase meal tickets for the 
Features: Tom O'Neil
picnics' for $1.50 each at the Sports: Bill BrinkStudent Union Ticket Office. 
Typists: Marianne Corr, Bob Steinmetz, Neil ViiiSiegel also announced the details Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz
of the two picnics. The SMC picnic will include a barbeque meal, a Night Controllers: Dave Rust, hand. kite-flying and free frisbees. M.J. Foley 
The Notre Dame picnic will be Late Typist: Dave Rust the traditional kick-off to the ac­Ad Layout: Peter J. Kernan Ill, tivities of Sunny Saturday, Siegel Bob Tracy noted. This picnic will feature a 
Monday, April 7, 1975 the observer 
The audience gazes at the make-shift stage in front of them. Three light poles jut out over a raked platform which is bordered by a series of muslin curtaindrops sketched in brown paint. The curtains dangle from a jungle of over head wires. An overturned chair lies beside a nearly off stage desk. And we wonder whether we have come to the right place to see the National Shakespeare Company perform 
T\1 II ( ;t•nti!'Jllt'll or \"!'rona 
As we glance a second time at our programs Elizabethan festival music comes over the speakers. We look up and see the encyclopedian image of William Shakespeare complete with bald head and quizzical beard enter and begin straightening the stage. A beer-bellied actor in flesh-colored tights follows, burps loudly. and begins a series of somersaults. He bumps into another bare chested acrobat guzzling beer while a half-dressed nobleman chases a lady in flouncy skitts and tries to kiss her. A flame thrower begins juggling lighted torches. He almost drops them as one by one this comical group becomes aware of the audience. They hustle off stage, Shakespeare pulls a curtain with the title piece of the comedy written in a flourishing script. rings a bell, draws back the curtain. settles a fight between the two actors on stage, an~ the. .Rl~.Y begins. 
,:. 'T'hP fdrce 6egms out it is not Shakespeare's. This play within a play is instead the slapstick of presenting Shakespeare's early attempt at Romantic intrigue. Faced with a weak play whose denouement does not do justice to its characters and the real life practicality of touring across country with only a twelve actor company and a few props, the com­pany felt justified in using the experience of an Elizabethan tavern setting as a direc­torial concept. But the question is, were they justified'? 
Although the company overcomes the eliteness of the Elizabethan language by exaggerated physical action and imaginative stage business, and the characitures of the fool Lance, the witty Speed. and the effeminate suitor, Thurio, we strangely find it difficult to laugh spont­
aneously as we are usually prompted to do in farce. We become so absorbed by the company's antics on presenting the play that we are distracted form the actual theme of the inconsistency of love. We feel detached. Shakespeare's own jokes are upstaged by his imitator who close the title l'Urtain. rings a bell to bring the actors to attention. sweeps the stage, and falls asleep at the promptor's desk. The character of the Elizabethan actor gets in the way of a development of the script's intended per­sonage. We cannot become emotionally involved with Valentine's longing for the lady Sylvia, or the Duke's attempt to marry his daughter according to his own wishes. or Proteus' devotion to Julia, which backfires when he meets Valentines Sylvia, but we see these characters caught on stage nipping on the bottle or fighting in their attornpt to upstage each other's bows. 
The idea m eAvo..,iue; th'" ~unventions of the theater to the audience through the play­within-the play technique was effectively used by Bertold Brecht in his epic theater. But Brecht.s purpose was not merely to entertain wihich is the attraction of farce, but rather to teach. He was not dealing with a simple plot, situation comedy, ribald humor but with complex social issues which immersed his characters into tragedy. And to avoid the strong emotional identification with his characters, an effect which would blur the audience's role of reaching their own verdict on the social issue at hand, Brecht deliberately broke the mood of a scene by off stage business and coached his actors to demonstrate action as if they stood outside their parts. 
This technique simply does not work in farce which caters to unrestricted laughter, 
two reviews of I verona 


chris herlihy 

rather than intellect. 
The National Shakespeare Company, 
however, was successful in pulling off 
Shakespeare's incomprehensibe ending by 
modifying this play-within-a-play 
technique. The problem of the denouement 
lies after Valentine recognizes that Proteus, 
his best friend, disclosed his elopement plot 
h. h d h. b · ht th D k

o e u e. w IC cause Is ams ment
form his daughter Sylvia. Proteus' treachery is revealed in his unfatithfulness to his former sweetheart, Julia. Proteus utters only four lines as his plea for f?rgiven~ss. Valentine is so moved by those Simple hnes that he not only forgives him but g1ves him Sylvia, his own sweetheart to prove it. Julia now reveals her disguise and Proteus gladly accepts her instead of Sylvia. Hampered by this ending which furthers the theme of the inconsistencies of love but which hardly falls in line with the cha~acters' individual action, the company
decided not to play it straight. 
"We hammed up the end," said Mark 
Blum who played Valentine, "because it just is not logical. The audience just can't believe in it." So Valentine, and Proteus acted the scene well while the other characters--Launce, dog, Speed, robbers-­stood behind the platform like a \t'anut gallery reacting to the revelations. Ot was successful as it drew loud laughs and ap­plause froin the audience. The audience saw themselves on stage in the play within the play, were able to identify and freelv laugh. · 
The act1·ng was balanced, the smaller rolescompensatingfor the weakness of the leads. Both the two gentlemen of Verona failed to convey storng developed characters essential for the task of carrying
the burden of the action. Lockhart Fryer fit the part of Proteus with moustache, light hair and determined jaw, but his overall impression. was that of Mr. Milktoast. Although he compleled the role of an actor performing in an Elizabethan tavern in his seeming to read lines rather than to be moved to speak them, he just did not seem capable of the treachery of crossing his best friend and of being unloyal to Julia which was required bu the sctript. Mark Blum 
I 


mary egan 
as having most of the initiative and just judgment is not stressed in this production except in Silvia's consistent refusals of Proteus' advances. Launce, his dog Crab, and Speed come across very well and im­pressed the audience. Valentine was good when expressing his delight at being in love with SI.lvi·a. but he also should have shown a stronger character. Proteus was 
portrayed as a sly and scheming fellow, who has no qualms at betraying his long-time friend. Thurio was believable as the nervous clod and ungraceful rival of Valentine. His costume of clashing colors told the audience immediately that there was something wrong with him. Launce's troublesome dog Crab was well acted. Having a person play Crab's role was successful and funnier than the use of a real dog or an invisable one as was done in other productions of this play. 
The audience probably noticed the
h t d th h
c arac ers an events more an t e 
themes. those of friendship and love. The 
central issue of the play is how to relate 
these two values. 1\t>ither of these are 
Pxpressed in the play as ideals. One is 
sidetracked throughout the play by the 
humorous commentaries of Speed and 
Launce of their realistic ideas of love in 
contrast to the more romantic ideals of 
Julia, Valentine and Proteus. Love and 
friendship are not shown as rival values 
except in the case of Proteus. Although most 
El. b h 1 h 1 h h h · 
1za et ans wou d avefe t t at t e c o1ce
f f · d h. 1 th · 
0 rJen s 1p over ove was e Wiser,
h k d t h p t
S a espeare oes no s ow ro eus as
h. k. · f. 1
t m mg this. Proteus, 1rst in ove with
J 1· d 1 · f s·I
u 1a, rea i y reJects her or a try at 1 via,
who is secretly betrothed to his friend 
Valentine. Proteus not only betrays the love 
of Julia, he betrays his old friend in his own 
intere:;t and chooses love over friendship. 
Overall, this production of Two Gen­tlemt>n of Verona was well-received by the 
played a flippant and good natured L---_.::...______:__ _;__ _.:____________________, 
Valentine with the comic timing found in a Mel Brooks production but his character lacked distinguishing mannerisms, the repitition of which would have produce more laughter. 
Jack Powell outdid himself as Speed, Valentine's servant. His overt actions in the speech about .Valentine's heart sickness was as close to unrestrained laughter as the audience got. Thomas Bahring as Launce rivaled his fellow servant for laughs. With an intelligence on par with his dog's, his moronic speel'h, exaggerated facial ex­pressions, and the repetition of the "kick in the groins" joke. Launce made a memorable impression. Black actress Karen Ragland played Sylvia with most tconviction while saving coy smiles for Valentine. Julia. played by Marian Hickey, became . almost too serious when she discovered her lover's unfaithfulness, but she came across as a well-developed character. Michele Frankenburg doubled as a delightfully crazy maid and a cute dog. Ronald Klein's Thurio stole the show. The audience took one look at him dressed in green-printed pantaloons, mismatched sleeves, red shoes with pompoms, lacy ruff collar, and gagged. Thurio's constant practices at court bowing while flaunting a large yellow lace handkerchief and his ballet poses were a visible out-growth of a well-portrayed character. 
In short. the National Shakespeare Company's ·rendition of The Two Gen­tlemen of Verona was an imaginative handling of a weak script. However, the play-within-a-play created its own drawbacks. making the audience unable to freely laugh, which only a few actors were able to overcome. 
Two Gt>ntlemen of Verona has been a much-criticized and somewhat unpopular comedy. One of Shakespeare's first professional works, it has weak spots and relies on comedy through soliloquy, dialogue, and the aside as comment. In its Saturday evening performance, the N · 1 Sh k
at10na a espeare Company tried to compensate for the play's weaknesses and 
Elizabethan language by treating some weak spots comically, changing parts of dialogue, and using stage action effectively in order to help the audience un­
derstand the play. 

In this production, the corned:• was done as a play-within-a-play William Shakespeare was portrayed on stage watching the play while following a script, reacting at times, and playing parts himself when necessary. The idea of having Shakespeare on stage was good because he 
actually was a theatre-{)wner, proprietor, and actor in addition to being a playwright. In this role, he added humor to the play, which the audience enjoyed, and helped strengthen it in parts. The Duke's affection for drinking, Thurio's silly bows, and Silvia's .smug at­titude at being carried around all add to the play's humor. The last scene where Valentine gives his betrayer, Proteus, his betrothed Silvia because he is so moved at Proteus' apology is absurd and can be said 0 heone of the play's weaknesses. The com­pany plays this scene comically in order to aid the script. Valentine does not just offer 
his Silvia to Proteus, he throws her at him. The company seemed to over-stress the comedy in parts, however· The audience 
probably remembers the jokes more than the characters. The two gentlemen, Valentine and Proteus, and their beloved ladies, Silvia and Julia, were somewhat upstaged by the lowlife servants. Lucetta comes off well as being mischievous and 
livelier than her dignified mistress Julia, audience, despite the minor inconsistencies which is appropriate, but Julia should between the original and contemporary exhibit her character more strongly. script, and between the actors and the roles Shakespeare's tendency to portray women they portrayed. 



the academy awards 
The Aeademv Awards will be aired tomorrow night.at 9:00 on Channel 16. In tomorrow's issue of the Ohst>rn'r, the fin• major pictures up for the distinction of Best l'ietun• will receive capsule reviews in prPparation for the event--"Hollvwood's annual salutt' to Hollvwood"--and to familiarize campus viewers\\ ith thPrnovies which they have not seen. 
Shown hPre are the results, according to 
pen·l•ntagt'. of the poll taken Friday at 
I. What picture has won more Oscars than any otht'r? ~. .Jimmv Stewart won his Oscar for 
whil'h movie'' :1. Who won Best Actor last year? 
4. How many Oscars has I<:dward G. Bohinson won? 
:i. Whil·h movie won Best Picture in 1969'? Butl'h Cassidy, Hello Dolly. Midnight <'owboy or Z'? 
ti. Who has won more Academy Awards than anvone? 
7. What is top-grossing movie musical of all tirnp'' 
II. In 1972 what picture won more Oscars than Tht• (;udfillhl'r? 
\1. Was C01sablam·a HPst Picture for its \"Par'' · Ill. Which star from Airport won one of the lkst Supporting honors in 1970'? 
·saAeH ua1aH ·o1 ·s.l,t. ·6 'l<lJP.qt?. l ·g '::>!snw JO punos z1u ·L ·.{ausJ<I lJt?.\\ ·9 '.\oqtnoJ l45!UPtl~ ·s ·auoN ·t ·uoww,q :!f::>er ·E •AJOlS etqd}ape}14.1 ·<. 'JnH-U.lH ·1 
I'Pter KPrnan. South Bend represen­tativE.' of Pacific Presentations. announced !hat tickets for this Saturday's Kraftwerk roncPrt at l\lorris Civic Auditorium will go on sail' today at the Student Vnion Ticket 
11::!0 a.m. 

KraftwPrk. a progressive rock group from Frankfurt. Germany is now on their first tour of the t'nited States. Their album ··Autobahn.. is currently in the ninth 
position on Billboard's Top 100. British group <;rPPnslade will open Saturday's I'OOCPrt . Tickt•ts arl' priced at $5.50 general ad­
dinnPrtime. illustrating the students·· choie<•s of Best 1\lovie Pte. of the Year. I \\hethPr this will corrt•late with the voting dJsdosurPs tomorrow mght has yet to h<• !-iPPn. 'rhe usual expectation is disap-j 
pointmt•nt. llollvwood seldom views itself in thp sarnp light as the rest of the world. 
Also  included  here  are  a  · few  trivia  
quPstions  concerning  your  knowledge  of  
<Iscar history.  


oscar vote 
Bt>st Picture Chinatown 61.4 Godfather II 16.1 Lenny 12.9 Towering Inferno 9.6 
Bt>st Director Coppola .=-.. 42.8 Polanski~ 29 Cassavet~ 16 l<'osse ?@\' 9 
Trufa-:!.2 
Nichol~42.7 
Carney ~ :l2.2 Pacino -=::::::-12.9 Hoffman --;:;; 9 Finney _:::. :!.2 
Bt>~ess 
Rowlands -48.7 

Burstyn =:: 22.5 
PPrrine ::=::: 16 
Carrol == 6.4 
Flunaway 6.4 
Bt>st ~Actor 
Astaire -~ "I" 64.6 De Niro -16.1 Strasberg 16.1 Bridges 3.2 
Ht>st Supporting Actrt>ss Bergman 84 Kahn 6.4 Cortese 3.2 Ladd 3.2 Shire 3.2 
. 


Monday, April 7, 1975
the observer
6 

Ara selected as senior fello'W 
by Mark Jahne Trudeau, who collected 23 per cent Parseghian, who coached the 
Staff Reporter of the votes. Fighting Irish to national cham­
Former head football coach Ara pionships in 1966 and 1973, retired Parseghian has been chosen as Guitarist Jerry Garcia placed . this season to accept a fund-raising Senior Class Fellow in voting by third in the balloting. He was and public relations job with the 
the Class of 1975. The results of followed, in order, by author and University. He will continue as last week's election were an­critic Jimmy Breslin, Notre Dame National Campaign Chairman for nounced last night by Senior Class grad student AI Sondej, Notre the National Multiple Sclerosis 
President Greg Erikson. Dame history professor James Society. 
With nearly forty per cent of all Kritzek, editor and newswoman As Senior Class Fellow, Par­seniors voting, Parseghian cap­Shana Alexander, and Socialist seghian will address this year's tured 31 per cent of the ballots to author and lecturer Michael graduating class at a date as yet win over popular cartoonist Garry Harrington. undetermined. 
Senior Class Fellow Vote Tally 

General Meeting 
Graduate Student Union Wed., April 9, 
12:20 
Lib. Auditorium 
NOTHE DAME STlJOE" I f'Nf()l\1 PRESENTS 
. . 
South Quad :\:orth Quad Total 
i 
, I .Pat·spghian !12 ;15 :;u li7 Trudl'<IU 7-t :li :!U I:11 
()(' SANTANA
(:arria 26 51! I !l!l 
.,. 

..... -·­
Brl'slin ... a I Hi 15 Sondl'j 2:1 10 !l t2 
KritzPk 20 16 5 H AND SPECIAL GUEST .\Jpxandt'r 12 7 a 2-1 
Harrington 10 fi .. :w
~) MUDDY WATERS
Faccenda slates open meeting
'·r 
IN CONCERT
to discuss assaults on ca1npus
J Dr. Philip Faccenda. University prevent such crimes and will also' quashed publicity of violent crimes AN TOST AL WEEKEND general counsel. will meet with be I?~epared to explain the present on campus, did not warn students concerned in the first floor study p~sitlon. ?f the_ Uni~ersity regar-of dangerous situations and
{ FRIDAY APRIL 18
lounge of Lewis Hall on Thursday, dmg official Umversity publication shielded one perpetrator of a sex
1 April 10 at 8 p.m. The meeting has of the facts and circumstances of crime from prosecution. been ('ailed to discuss the number the rapes and assults on campus. The meeting is open to all of alleged violent crimes per­As far as possible, within the students. 
8:00 P.M. 

petrated against women on confines of the guaranteed con-campus in the past few weeks and fidentiaJity of matters private to the victim, Faccenda will discussallegations by students that the specific cases, and the Univer­l 1niversity is indifferent to the sity's reaction to each case.
situation. 

Faccenda has scheduled this meeting in response to a swell of 
•Faccenda will hear suggestions rumors immediately preceding
regardmg feasible means the spring break. These rumors University might employ to alleged that the University 
Two Holy Cross priests r--rwarded new positions 
"he appointment of two Holy campus. 
•ss 
priests at the University of A native of Detroit, Fr. Ebey 

•re 
Dame to new positions has received a master's degree in


' l 
n announced by Fr. Jerome J. business administration at Notre 
m. vice-president for financial Dame in 1972 after graduate ·s. theological studies at Holy Cross ( Carl F. Ebey, assistant College, Washington, D.C., and A dor of internal auditing, has Gregorian University. Rome, . named to succeed Emerit Italy. He majored in philosophy .t· ··Moore who resigned March and accounting during un­;:; director of student accounts. dergraduate years at Notre Dame. .lames L. Riehle, former Fr. Riehle completed un­
ctant to the dean of students dergraduate studies at Duquesne ;, rector of Pangborn Hall, has University and Notre Dame where !J, ·n named director of the Energy he majored in engineering and 
Conservation Committee on the business administration. 
, I 
' 

:J 
' ~ 
r 1 
' ' 
j 
PANEL DISCUSSION: 
CHRISTIAN AND GAY 
a discussion of homosexuality 
MORTON KELSEY 
and two discussants 
TOMORROW -TUES. April 8, 8:00 pm Library Auditorium 
SPONSORED BY CAMPUS MINISTRY 
----.-------­
BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY 
Good Potential Income No Age Barrier Full or Part Time Contact D. A. Doxie 503 N. Blaine Ave. South Bend, IN (219) 234-4469 
NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC & CONVOCATION CENTER 
TICKETS NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE & A.C.C. BOX OFFICE 
I / 

PRICES: 5.50, $4.50, $3.00 
Physics Courses for Non-Science Majors 
The four courses described below will be offered by the Department of Physics in the fall 1975 semester. They are particularly well suited for non-science majors--though not restricted to them. 
Physics 111-112: Topics in Physics-3credits per semester 
A quantitative study of the major developments in classical and modern physics set in historical and philosophical perspective. High school algebra and geometry are the only requirements. This two­semester course fulfills the University-wide science requirement for all students. Instructor: Professor James T. Cushing (Extension 6132) 
Physics 210: Descriptive Astronomy -3 credits 
A description of the motions, distribution, and structure of the planets, sun, star system and galaxies. Some observational work is in­cluded. A one-year introductory science course including at least one semester of physical science is a prerequisite. Instructors: Professor James L. Shilts (Extension 7732) 
Professor William D. McGlinn (Extension 7095) 
Physics 206: Concepts of Relativity -3 credits 
A discussion of Einstein's Special and General Theories of Relativity. Concepts discussed include time dilation, causality, mass-energy equivalence, curved space, black-holes, and cosmology. A one-year in­troductory physical science course is a prerequisite. Instructor: Professor Sperry E. Darden (Extension 7262) 
Physics 311: Emergence of Modern Scientific World Views-3credits 
This seminar reading course traces the rise of rationality and development of the belief in a scientific approach to problems and sur­veys the differences and interactions between philosophy and science. There are no formal prerequisites. Instructor: Professor James T. Cushing (Extension 6132) 
Further information, as well as course syllabi, can be obtained either by contacting the instructors at the extensions listed above or by stopping in at the Department of Physics Office in Room 225 of Nieuwland Science Hall (Extension 6386). 

7 
•

Fenc-9rs third 1n NCAAs 
h~· Tom Kruczek 

Notre Dame's fencing team conlcuderl its season Saturday with ;, third place finish in the NC'AA natioqal tournam.ent in Fullerton. Calif. The lrtsh ftmshed the three dav event with 75 team points. in a tie. with Princeton behind Wayne State who captured their first lenl'ing title. and Cornell, who finished six boints behind the Tartars in second. Notre Dame last vear finished in 12th place 
·hehi~·d national champion NYU. 
1\:otre Dame began the first days <telion like a ball of fire. Tim Glass m Pp(•e was undefeated with ten , it'lories. l\Jike l\1cCahey in foil also wPnt 10-0. while Sam DiFiglio·. at sabre finished 8-2. The second ~pssion wmt much like the first.. (;)ass remaining undefeated, adding seven more while· i\h'Cahey slipped a· fli Figlio ended 4-3. 
Ht'flt>eting after the meet. head ('oach :'II ike DeCicco remarked that he ft'lt that "wt> could have gom· all the way if wt,> could have t·ontinued the same level of per­form;mce.'' On the third day. the Irish did run into problems. and finishing the day with a ll-9 record. 1aass fared the best with 3-2 and mowd into the finals on Saturday 
. ~ t;n•,,:ng. 1\h'C'ahey and DiFig~, ·did not make it to the finals. 'l\h'Cahey falling just one touch ~hort of making the finals. 
•· In the finals. Glass ended up with 
two wins and ·three losses. and :; wound up in fourth place in the 
'·· 
nation in epee. l\lcCahey finished in 7th while DiFiglio ended in 11th. Tlw fourth place finish by Glass added to his increasing Jist of honors for the year. The sophomore from Niles, Ill. a week ago competed in the .Jumor 1t)vmpics in 1\Jexico <'ity. finishing m.lhird plan•. This was the highest national title behind the per­formances of Greg Benko and Uri Habinovich. Benko captured his ~eeond straight foil ehampionship, while Habinovich who recently emigrated crom Odessa. Soviet l'nion. to Israel and then to Wayne State. captured his first title in sabre. Histo Hurme from NYU won his third epee title. an all tin\e record. Hurme. incidentally will be coming to Notre Dame to finish hts sehooling for a medical education in Sq>tt>mber of 1976, after taking a vear out to train for the 1llyrripics. Although he ~il~ ~~ve u>;ed up ~is collegtate ehgtbthty: 
1ini~h  hv  a  l' .S.  male  in  in­ 
tt-rnatio~al competition.  
\\·aynP  Stat<·  was  Jed  to  the  

llurme will work with the Irish fencers. 
Absent from the tourney was Steve Danosi fom Wayne State. who two weeks ago tore an achilles tendon and may never fence again. 
Dt>Cicco commented that he was quite pleased with the team's performance. ''The kids were ~ oung and we were going against somt> verv experienced teams in Wayne St~te~and C'olu'mlffa and we did wt>ll. Now we know what we have to do to win the title someday." Will domeday come in one year" "I hope so, and I think it 
be next .yeax-." ~ •. 
I<RAFTWERI< PLAYING MUSIC FROM THEIR NUMBER ONE ALBUM-"AUTOBAHN" 
VLU~! f312~~~~LAII 
THIS SATURDAY! 8 PM! 
MORRIS AUDITORIUM • SOUTH BEND 
ADVANCE 5.50 • DAY OF SHOW 6.50 NOW SELLING AT MORRIS AUDITORIUM; BOOGIE RECORDS. COLLEGE SO .. MISHAWAKA; AND NO STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE. MAIL ORDERS: SEND MONEY ORDER WITH SELF­ADDRESSED. STAMPED ENVELOPE TO: MORRIS AUDITORIUM. 211 N. MICHIGAN. SOUTH BEND. IN 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
NOW RENTING FOR FAll SEMESTER 
('75 -'76 SCHOOl YEAR) 
THERE ARE STill A LIMITED NUMBER OF CHOICE APARTMENTS AVAilABlE 
* 
COMMUNITY BUILDING 

* 
iNDOOR SWIMMING POOL 

* 
BASKETBALL COURT 

* 
SHAG CARPET 

* 
2 BATHS IN 2 BEDROOM APTS. 

* 
ALL APPLIANCES COLOR COORDINATED 

* 
EXCELLENT SECURITY 

* 
SOUND CONDITIONED 


* 
PRIVACY CAMPUS VIEW 


A NEW APARTMENT COMMUNITY DEVELOPED FOR THE STUDENTS OF NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S. CAMPUS VIEW IS SET IN A WOODED SURROUNDING YET IS ONLY 3 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME. LOCATED JUST ONE BLOCK NORTH OF STATE RD. 23 OFF OF WILLIS RD. 
FOR RENTAL INFORMATION PHONE 272-1441 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Need good home for personable cat Simon, over summer and '75·'76 school year. Ca II Arthur. 284·4857 or 289·3270. 
Help wanted, Pandora's Books. 233· 2342. 
2 Notre Dame Football Banners for 1970 Cotton Bowl victory. Size: 18" by 36". Will pay reasonable price. Jay Wright, 219·287·6084. 
Two female roommates needed to share apartment at Campus View for next year. If interested, please call 232·4069. 
Notre Dame Coed sales rep. want'ed to sell sport and bicentennial awards, and souvenirs. Please send resume. and photograph to AK K, Inc., 5169 Wooster Rd., Cinncinati, Ohio, 452' 
FOR SALE 

2 tix for Jesus Christ Superstar at Morris Civic on April 9 at price. Greg. 1779. 
3 speed bike, excellent condition. Call Mary, 7953. 
For sale: Jensen model, 3 speakers. one month old. Must sell. Best offer. Call Rich at 1175. 
NOTICES 

SHARE hotline, phone 4311, 8·12 nightly. Completely confidential. 
Girls! Here is your chance! I am a junior and the dashing young Navy Operations Officer. I request the honor of your company for the an· nual Spring Navy Ball. Call Jerry, 8872. 
Want to get involved? Interested in working with International Students? Join the One Earth Marketplace workforce between Aprill4 to 19. Call Ravinder, 8142 or sign up at the International Student office. 
Small.med. dog to be given away. Good watchdog. Call 289·2371. 
Accurate, fast typing. Northeast section of South Bend. Reasonable. Phone 232·0746. 
Will do typing. Experienced in themes. Contact Kay, rm. 114, Psychology. 
Direct from Santa Fe, New Mex. Handmade Indian jewelry, crosses, rings, bracelets, etc. Very well priced for graduation or yourself. Call 287·0076 after 7. 
Who was the great White God of ancient America? Discussion Monday, 7:00pm, Bulla Shed. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter·day Saints. 
Men and women with two years of college left: Want to invest six weeks this summer and assure yourself a second career as an Army Officer upon graduation? Earn approximately S500 this summer and gain self.confidence! No obligation. For information contact CPT Weimer at 283·6265 about Army ROTC Basic Camp. 
Need help with term papers. reports, etc? Write Michiana Reference Service for rates and details. P.O. Box 6247. South Bend, Ind. 46615. 
----·---·­
FOR RENT 

Summer or winter ~tudents: J bedroom house fully furnisheo. washer and dryer. Equipped wi .,. burglar alarm system. Free trasn removal. Call Charles Moore. 232· 7180. Call after 4:30pm. 
For summer: 1 large house. furnished. Also cottage, summer and fall, furnished. 272·6174. 
6 bedroom house for rent, furnished for next year, within In mile of campus. 233·2613. 
1 bedroom furnished apartment 2 blocks south of campus on N D ave. Call 27~·7656 or 272·6358 evenings. 
Rent <1Egotiable. Call 
~venin{•S 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: pr. girls glasses, brown, betwE-en BP and lib., Wedn.,sday nile. Call Ann, 4904. 
Lost: somewhere between Walsh and O'Shag: one pair of brown framed glasses in flowered case. If found caII 8007. 
Lost: 1975 class ring. MKM, 13th floor library. Mark. 287·4551. Reward. 
Lost: black and white female cat named Partner. If found. contact Colleen at 288·5506. Last seen near Alumni. 
Lost: one room key, no. 419, one mailbox key, and one silver key. If found please call Pattie, 4621. 
,. 
PERSONALS 

WALSH WOMEN: Football Saturdays, Mardi Gras, deficiency reports, and Easter break have passed. Now's the time for you to think of next year and vote PAT SHEEHAN·LAURIE WYSOCKI in today's hall election. Don't accept anything less than the best. 
Phantom Phone Caller: Put up or hang up. 8958 
Steve: Tell I.B.C. that N.D. still loves you. 
Welcome to the big.time. Cindie 
Bright. How was it? .• What has Murphy taught you now? 
Megan, why weren't you in your room Thursday? 
Sacrificial virgin wanted now! No experience required. Call Pharaoh 8367 or Brother of the Bush, 8368. 
Panel discussion on "Christian and Gay." AprilS at 8:00p.m.. in Library Auditorium. Presentation by Morton Kelsey. 
·-------­"K.K" Message received an-:J source of information guessed by victim. Nice work. 
Muffy 
Lunch at Bulla Shed with Joe Evans . Wednesday, April 9th, between 12 and 1:15pm. 
Join Jim and Maryann Roemer and the Campus Ministry staff for a 24 hour retreat on human sexuality. Sat.• April 12. Sign up in Campus Ministry. 
-


.... 
• 



the observer Monday, April 7, 1975
8 

Devine pleased with first drills 

Paul Shoults. But the new faces along with Dl'vine include Hank Kuhlmann. offensive backfield l'oach. .John Boland. backs and receivers coach, Merv Johnson. ~uards and cPnters eoach and n·cently -appointPd Ed Chlebek. coach of the specialty t;·ams Brian 1\ou!ac rdurns to handk the of­ff'nsi,-,. :;wkE.'lS and tight o~nds. 
Form<'r pro .John Hnland showpd his spunk hy hP!ping Stock and Bauer lead the calisthenics, and throwing a few good shots of his "\":n during tht• drills. Coach I lt•vint· surveyed the exercises. making a few comments to slackers and then-led the team in a nPw Irish jig-like jumping jack drill which had the players stumbling and smirking. and then eheering as they broke for the split rlrills. 

Later in the practice the coaches harl the squad running plays, going with a tentative starting offense of: Frank Alloccco at quar­terback. !\lark McLane and Russ HEAD FOOTBALL coach Dan Devine addresses the huddled players in the first day of spring 
practice. {Photo by Ed Brower)
Kornman at halfbacks. Tom 

r j 

h.v Bill Brink Sports Editor 

After all the photographs and TV and newspaper interviews Dan lkvine settled down to do what he does best: coaching football. DPiay:-·d three days because of had \\·Path('r. the !'pring drills for the Fighting lri:;h began Saturday ;1ftcrnoon. and 1he new g~>neral had finally madt' his iippearance on the field 
l'racti<:•· began officially at 1:25 
p.m Saturday ''hen the specialty f('am hegan its drills on the wet ~urfacc of \ ·artiE.'r Field. and 20 minutPS )a!E.'r co-captains Jim stock and Ed Bauer led the rest of thE.' squad onto the field. The team wmt through regular breakdown drills. t•ach coach working with his st'l'tion of the team. Practice was held Sunday afternoon also. 
'Tm ,·ery pleased," said Devine of the two practice sessions. "I always t•njoy coaching. it's good to gPt out there and look over prac­tice. I'd rather have two good days of drills than two or three bad days." 
lkvine had veteran defensive eoaches to aid him in line coach .Joe Yonto. linebacker coach (;eorge KPlly and secondary coach a~d Tony Zappala at ends, Steve Nrt>haus and .Jeff Weston at tackles. Tom Eastman at middle linebacker. Tony Novokov and Doug Becker at outside lint>backers and Randy Payne, .John llubenetzky. Tom Lopienski and Handy Harrison in the 
rlefensive backfield. 
DiBiaso appointed .zlew head coach at Stanford 

b~  Bill Brink  
Sports Editor·  
Dick  DiBiaso,  Assistant  
Basketball  Coach  at  the  
l'niversity of Notre Dame for the  
past four years. has been named  
llt•ad Basketball Coach at Stanford  
l 'niversity.  He succeeds Howlie  
l>allmar.  who  resigned  after  
serving in the position for 21 years.  
DiBiaso  was  chosen  ahead  of  
thret•  other  candidates.  Rob  
Howling  and  PPrcy  Carr.  Stan­ 
ford's current assistants. and Dave  
Bliss. assistant coach at Indiana.  
lie was recommPnded for the job  
by  a  1~-mPmber  search  com­ 
DEVINE LEADS the players in a new jig-like drill. Brower)  {Photo by Ed  mittee. alumni.  consisting of Stanford Athletic Departmt'nt of- 

Irish unleash against Marian, take doubleheader 14-3, 12-1 
b~-Hich Odioso Observing the strong breeze that was blowing in from left field Bob Stratta remarked. "It looks like one of those low scoring affairs today." Stratta proved himself a better pitcher and hitter than prophet as the Irish pounded out 21 hits in ten innings Sunday, swet'ping past out-gunned Marian : 14-3 and 12-1. The Knight coach requested that each game be shortened to five innings after the _Irish mounted ten-run margins. With the temperature in the 40's and the wind making it seem even colder Notre Dame Coach Jake Kline was glad to agree. Stratta allowed only five hits in coasting to the win in the opener and reached base all eight times he went to the plate, scoring three times and driving in three runs. ·; Lefthander Bob Hughes was even better than Stratta in the Knightcap, fanning nine of the twenty men he faced and allowing only an opposite field double and an infield hit. A pleasant surprise was the hitting of outfielder Jack Snyder who was ~-for-7 in his first Irish action. Snyder had a double. a perfect bunt hit. scored four runs and rlrove in four. Tommy Miller. playing in his hometown of Ind­ianapolis.. had his greatest day t•ver for Notre Dame with three 
hits inducting a stinging triple, five 
runs scored and three RBis. 
Shortstop Jim Smith perhaps best 
t•xemplifies what kind of day it 
was. going hitless on the 
doubleheader yet still driving in 
three runs with a sacrifice fly and 
two bases leaded walks. All told, 
Smith received five walks and 
scored four times. 
Knight shortshtop Jeff Zidron made three Prrors in the second inning of the opener as the Irish tallied seven times to assume command. Zidron was not the whole ND offense in the inning though as Mike O'Neill pounded a two-run single and Stratta, Pat Coleman and Tommy Miller also had hits. 
The second game had a little more suspense as the Irish only led 2-I going into the top of the fourth before a pair of bases loaded walks and Stratta' two-run sinble gave Nn a {i-1 lead. Notre Dame salted the game with six more runs in the fifth. 
Stratta said he felt fine despite the cold weather. adding, "I may have lost mv concentration a little with the big. lead. StilL I'll take a seven-run inning anytime." Hughes credited an improved hrpaking pitch with his per­formance which he considered better than a one run winning 
Pffort on the Tt>xas trip. ··1 had no curve ball down there but I've really worked on it since then," he comnwnted. 

IHISH ITEMS --Catcher Tony l.arocci collected his first hit of the ~eason anrl first extra base hit of his l'arE.'er with a scorching double down the left field line in the second game...Pat Coleman hit only .158 in warm weather Texas. lleturning to his native climate, the third baseman from Nim­mPsota hanged out four hits in six at hats... With Bob Stratta batting and the bases loaded in the first gamP. Marian hurler Will Bohinger uncorked a wild pitch that catcher Scotty Vonderheide totally lost track of. Two runs scored before Vonderheide found tht' ball and barely threw out Jim Smith trying to score all the way from first...Stan Robowski's dad anrl brother traveled from Chicago to 1\larion College in l\larron. In­diana. l'nfortunately the game was at Marian College in In­rlianapolis. They arrived in timE.' for the second gamE.' but Stan only played in the first...The home opPner is scheduled for Wednesday at :1 p.m. against Valparaiso. <'oach Kline indicated his starter will he a lefthander. either fresh­man llon Wolfe or Paul i\lorisseau...The wind cost Smith 
and !\lark St'hmitz homeruns. kPt•ping long drives to Jpft short of tht• fent'e. 
The Irish received some un-Devine. "We lost ten offensive fortunate news when it was starters. And we're lacking learned that tight end Robin quickness. I guess I'm just spoiled WPber's football career was ended hecaust' at Missouri I had two very hy a eervical nerve injury. and fast mPn (Grey and Hendley\ and I that offensive tackel Harry wa~ used to more speed. But I'm ; \\'oebkenberg was suffering from , ~~~ed. rt workt•d aut--very,x_ery-1 mononucleosis and would miss wdl. . . . i 
most of spring practice. Defensive flpvrne. sard that the lnsh would hack Tim Simon will also miss the contrnue to practrce four or five , rest of rlrills. giving more healing days a week from now on. using up ' timP to an eye injury which kept the>r twenty allowed practice him out last season. sl'Ssrons before the annual blue-
gold gamp on May 3. The first "WP 've got a tremendous scnmmagp >s scheduled for this amount of work to do." said \\t•dnesdav. 
Parise at fullback, AI Wujciak and Elton Moore at guards, Ed Bauer and Steve Quehl at tackels. Vince Klees at center. John 1\JacAfee at tight end. and Kevin Doherty at wirle receiver. Rick Slager and freshman Ted Rurgmeier were right behind Allocco. and Steve Orsini. Jim Weiler and Art Best comprised the second backfield. 

On defense the tentative first team was made up of: Jim Stock 
fieials. and members of the 
l'niversity administration. 
The appointmt'nt is PXpPcted to he confirmt>d at a press conference set for II : :lo today. Pacific Coast TimP. Coach DiHiaso was en route to Stanford last night and was unavailablE.' for comment. 
I >i Ilia so graduated for Monessen ll1gh School in Pennsylvania and at tPnded l\1 ansfield. Pa. State ('ollege. HE.' captained the basketball squad as a senior and set l'arPer scoring and rPhounding n•cords which still stand. 
lit• began his coaching career at BPacon High School in New York serving two years as junior varsity l'Oach before moving up to the head coaching position for the next four yt>ars and compiling a 101-5 record\ 
In 191iB he moved to the University or \'irginia as freshman coach and assistant to head coach Rill Gib­~on. 
DiBiaso came to Notre Dame with his old friend from Beacon Digger Phelps in 1971. and along with fellow assistant Frank 1\ll'Laughlin has worked with !'helps to build one of the, premier basketball programs in the ,·ountry. The Irish have had three sul'l'essivP seasons of post-season tournamPnt play. DiBiaso is marrit>d and has two children. Brian. 10. and Shawne-Re. 8. 
WhPn asked for his reaction ( 'oach Phelps replied: "Dick and I haw hePn dose friends for 10 or 12 yt>ars now. and he's Parned it, he deserves it. and I'm glad to seem him lll'comP involved in one of the gn•at programs of the country." 
Ht'garding the search for a n•plact>mt>nt Phelps commented. 
, "That's ht'ing done, but we <ion 't \1 ani to take anything away from Dick. wp'II continue to work on it and make our decision sometime in the future." 

Rugby team defeated by 
Bowling Green Saturday 
h~ Bob Kisst>l "The loss sure rlidn't fit into our plans." remarked rugby team captain Lang Casey after the 'A· ~idE.' dropped a disheartening 26-7 loss to the Bowling Green 'A' squad. The ND 'B' team also rlropped a tough one. losing 16-7; thE.' Irish ·c· unit brought home the only victory last Saturday af­tPrnoon. blanking the Falcon 'C's :!0-0. The Irish opened up the first half with fire in their Pyes and desire in tht>ir hearts. But ·it didn't last too long. l'ete Schreck scored ND's only try £arly in the game, touching down a loose ball in the IH; mdzone. The Falcons stormed back for two unanswered tries and one conversion kick. giving them the 10-4 IE.'ad midway through the first ~5 minutes of action. Mitch Wilkes converted for ND on a three-point pt•nalty kick. cutting the Falcon ]earl to 10-7. IHi added another try before the half t•nded. for a 14-7 lead. The Falcons put thE.' gamE.' away for good in the dosing half. scoring 12 morp points for the 26-7 final. 
"Bowling Green was one game \H' didn't l'Xpect to lose," added senior Casey. "We made too many mistakes which they <Bowling <ireen> wt>re able to capitalize on. Those mistakes were tTucial ones. down near our own end zone." 
Tht> ND-BG 'B' struggle was just that. a dost' game all the way. The Falcons scored one try in the opening half. while the young Irish manged three points on a penalty kick by !\like Michalek. 
Bowling Green outscored Notre llamP three tries to one in the final half. Parning them a 16-7 victory. :'\I)'s sole try was scored by junior i'l'le Brosman. 
"Wp tried to rely on the serum more. hut we probably didn't get to the hall quick enough." noted kicker 1\lichaelk. "Bowling Green has a good team. but we made somt• had mistakes at the wrong 
timt•." 
Somt• Irish pride was salvaged hy the ND ·greenies,' the ·c· side. as they put togPther a 20-0 shutout 
of thl' !Hi '("s. Erik Snvder hit two pl'nalty kicks and one. conversion 1 kick. {;porgP "Pinkie" Fahertv seort>d two triPs. and Brian Duffv aceountt>d for thE.' final ~D try. · 










