
--~----­
Support lower drinking age 
Student lobbyists release report 
by John Shaughnessy of Indiana's neighboring states have been drinking." Staff Reporter adopted such legislation," Black The report notes, however, that said. researchers from the Insurance Lowering the drinking age has Institute of Highway Safety con­
Lowering Indiana's drinking age produced fears in Inui.:ma that the cluded that "the change in law to 18 would not create an increase rate of traffic fatalities would rise. affected the perception and-i>r in the state's traffic fatalities, When a lowered drinking age reporting of alcohol involvement according to Tom Black, Notre was last being considered in the by the police more than it affected Dame student lobby coordinator. Indiana House of Representatives, the fatal crash rates." 
Black made this statement in an early traffic statistics from "In other words," Black ex­eight-page report that will be Michigan (which changed to an 18-plained, "the fact that the submitted to every Indiana state year-old drinking age in January, Michigan Police were expressly 
legislator. The report is part of the 1972) represented the major ob­looking for the involvement of student lobby's efforts to reduce jection to the proposed legislation. alcohol in accidents involving 18-the continues, rate
1973 and 1974, the total deaths were report thethe drinking age in Indiana from 21 In the first year after the change, 20-year-olds greatly influenced 2,213 and 1,875 respectively. The decreased in 1973-74. 
to 18. according to the report, the these figures." 
1974 figure is the lowest in the last Black commented, "Obviously"This conclusion is based upon lowered drinking age "was said to Statistics compiled by the nin(' years. the figures presented to thestatistics from other :>tates which have produced increases of 54 per National Safety Council <NSC) Based on a NSC standard legislators when the matter lasthave recently enacted an 18-year­cent in Michigan in the number of show that traffic fatalities rose (by measure (the number of deaths came before the General Assembly old drinking age. It is also 18-20-year-old drivers in fatal 106) to 2,258 in the first year after per 100,000,000 vehicle miles) the did not tell the true story of thestrengthened by the fact that some crashes, reported by the police to the change in legal age, 1972. In 
ratio in 1971 and 1972 was 3.9 Michigan experience." compared to 3.8 in 1973 and 3.4 in 1974. Other states 
According to the lobby's report, although the total traffic fatalities Overall, statistics from the increased in 1972, the rate of traffic thirteen other states that have fatalities did not chuge. In fact, (continued on page 6) 
Charter Bights offered 
by Mark Murphy Staff Reporter 

Student Government has announced plans which will enable students to fly home for Christmas at substantially reduced prices. Notre Dame has joined the Indiana Student Travel Association Network, an organization which charters planes to fly collegians to major cities around the country 
Vol. X, No. 54 Monday, November 17, 1975 
during vacation periods. The Travel Association, based at Purdue University, has been in operation there for two years. This
Hunger Coalition 
year's "Christmas Airlift" has planes going to 25 cities with travel reduced by as much as one-third.



starts letter drive 
According to Student Body Viceby Mary Mungovan President Tom Fitzgerald,Staff Reporter beginning in early December students can place reservations The Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition is with the Student Union Ticket 

sponsoring a campus-wide "Offering of Let­Office which will then relay the ters" this week to support a "Right to Food" orders daily down to Purdue. The
d 
resolution now before Congress, Doug Allen, 
airplanes depart from IndianapolisHunger Coalition coordinator, announced 

and buses will take Notre Dame yesterday. students there to meet their flights. 
Rep. Paul McCloskey ( R-Cal.) pondered America's future last night. (Photo by Tom Lose) 
"The coalition is asking all Notre Dame The travel system has and St. Mary's students to write their previously been used only bysenators or representatives by Thanksgiving Purdue students ·but it is now as an act of Thanksgiving worship," Allen st­opened to other Indiana colleges.ated. The campus dirve is part of a nation­Students travel in chartered planes 


McCloskey 'Worries lor U.S. 
wide "Offering of Letters" campaign spon­or take advantage of some groupsored by Bread For The World, a national rates made available by the major by Tim O'Reiley 
Thomas Jefferson and Mao Tse-tung had Christian citizens lobby. airlines.Staff Reporter the same ideal of equally-distributed wealth The "Resolution Declaring as National A round-trip charter flight to Los and differed only in the means by which the Policy the Right to Food" is sponsored by Angeles for example, costs $183
The American system of democracy and distribution would take place, McCloskey Sen. Mark Hatfield in the Senate and Rep. compared to a regular fare of $282.
capitalism may be destroyed unless stated. Donald Fraser in the House. Round-trip flights to Hartford costAmericans learn to adjust to the realities of It asserts $96 and the Washington D.C. farescarcity in a changing world, Rep. Paul A capitalistic society requires a growth rate 1) Every person has the right to a "nutrit­costs $76.
McCloskey said last night. of at least three to eight per cent per year in ionally adequate diet" and this right should "You sure can't beat the prices," Citing historian Arnold Toynbee's The Rise order to maintain its viability, McCloskey be "recognized as a cornerstone of U. S. Fitzgerald noted, "and the systemand Fall of the Rritish Empire, McCloskey said, citing Toynbee. Yet the countries which Policy", has been perfected and proven insaid the capitalistic system will work only as America has exploited for raw materials 2)This right should become "a fundamental its two-year existence."
long as it distributes the growing wealth of an have formed price-fixing cartels. Cheap point of reference in legislative and ad­He said the Student Union would affluent nation. forms of labor-slavery, women and ministrative decisions", handle the operation for NotreMcCloskey told a crowd of 130 persons in children-have been abolished with legal 3) U.S. Food Assistance programs should Dame by taking reservations andthe Library Auditorium last night that sanctions. 
be improved, scheduling buses for the trip toAmerica has moved out of that stage in its "In my home state of California," 4) U.S. should "increase its assistance for Indianapolis.
development. The bountiful supply of cheap McCloskey said, "we wink while we allow self, help development among the world's Fitzgerald emphasized thatlabor and cheap raw materials that nurtured millions of Mexicans to cross the border to do poorest people", aiming for a target of one students who have already madethe American economy has disappeared, he our field work." 
per cent of the GNP. reservations can cancel them veryclaimed. After his thirty-minute speech, McCloskey "Hunger is the most dehumanizing effect of easily. "There is nothing wrong"The fall of the democracy comes because fielded a variety of questions and comments. 
global injustice," Ceyl Prinster, Coalition with canceling a reservationthe people will not willingly support He reviewed briefly his role as the first communications director, declared. "If especially when you can get aauthorities who must ration in times of Republican to oppose American involvement Congress knows there is mass support of the cheaper price for the trip!" hescarcity," McCloskey stated. in Vietnam. He also introduced the first measure, they'll know how to vote on it and said.
To emphasize this point, McCloskey House impeachment resolution against other related legislation." A list containing prices and dates analyzed an energy bill currently before former president Richard Nixon. 
,(continued on page 3) of departure will be publishedCongress. The congressman decried the After reviewing the nation's budgetary soon.

provision which rolls back the price of oil situation, McCloskey agreed with California instead of allowing the price to increase and Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. tliat the time has making people face the hardships of high­come for the federal government to restrict priced oil. its activities. 
Europeans, McCloskey stated, pay at least Commenting on another Californian, he twice as much for oil as Americans do. called Ronald Reagan "A great actor but The communist system contrasts to without much substance." He said the race 
capitalism in that it can strictly impose its between Reagan and incumbent President 
ideals on its citizens. Relating his ex­Gerald Ford could be close and added that he 
periences as a visitor to Vietnam, McCloskey "could not stomach a race for Congress if the said, "The South Vietnamese had the same conservatives capture the Republican Par­population as the North, twice as high a ty." standard of living and a vastly more puwel'ful One member of the audience drew much and better-equipped army. Yet the lost laughter by asking McCloskey why he has because of their lesser will to fight." remained a Republican. After reviewing the 
"Because of their greater will to fight, the strong Republican heritage in his family, Communists were willing to undergo the McCloskey stated, "I was not very much hardships to attain victory," McCloskey said. impressed by either Franklin Roosevelt or 
McCloskey also compared the distributions Harry Truman when I was young. When I of wealth in the United States and Communits first ran for Congress, Lyndon Johnson was in China. While one-an,d-a-half per cent of the power and he was waging the Vietnam war." American population owns eighty per cent of "I saw no reason to change my party its corporate stock, the income range registration, then or later," he said. throughout Chfna is between $15 and $45 per McCloskey appeared as a guest of the Notre week. Dame Student Union Academic Commission. 




the observer Mondey, November 17, 1975
2 
warld briefs 
SAULT STE. MARIE, Mich (AP)-U.S. Coast Guard officials say 
they are fairly certain they have located the sunken freighter 
Edmund Fitzgerald. 
l'he ore carrier sank during a storm last Monday night killing all 29 crew members. The Coast Guard is using side-scanning sonar equipment in Lake Superior to search for the vessel.
~ 
"There are other wrecks in the area, but we're pretty certain that it's the Fitzgerald," said Coast Guard spokesman Jim Burrell. 
MADRID (APl-Generalissimo Francisco Franco remained m grave condition Sunday as Spanish newspapers debated whether it was humane to keep him alive by artificial means. 
The 82-year-old leader could survive for perhaps hours or days by depending on coagulants, a kidney machine, an artificial respirator and the combined efforts of 26 physicians. 
LISBON, Portugal <APl -Over 30,000 Communist-led demon­strators filled Lisbon's biggest downtown square Su:tday calling for the downfall of the government, but there were no signs of a coup attempt Socialist leaders predicted was imminent. 
"Vasco, Vasco, Vasco will return," chanted the crowd for the return of pro-Communist Gen. Vasco Goncalves, replaced as premier two months ago. 
Meanwhile, in Portugal's Azores Islands in the Atlantic, the regional juanta warned Lisbon that it would take over full powers if extreme leftists attempted a power seizure. 

an campus taday 
9 a.m. to -­4 p.m. 7 p.m.-­
4:15p.m.-­
'4:30 p.m. -­
6:30 p.m. -­7 p.m.-· 
8 p.m.-­
book sale, sponsored by notre dame press, great hall, 
o'shaugnessy hall.film, "bonnie and clyde" engineering aud. $!.seminar, "physical and chemical studies of nitrogenase" rm. 123, nieuwland hall. dinner, father burtchaeli dinner for officers in rotc det­achments monogram rm., ace. meeting, world hunger coalition, Iafortune ballroom. meeting, chess club, rm. 227 math end computing center. lecture, philosophy perspective series "rationality end reason", plvln eucl. 

Cartoon festival Friday to fund Darby's party 
The Flanner Hall government will sponsor a cartoon festival Friday evening in Hagger Hall with the proceeds going to help pay for the Thanksgiving party at Darby's Place. The cartoons featured will be Pink Panther, Bugs Bunny, Road Runner, and the Inspector and showings will begin at 6:30, 8:15andiO:OO. Costwillbe$.75per person. 
The Knights of Columbus will be helping Flanner Hall set up the festival and the project will be directed by Steve Lucero. 
Darby O'Gill's Thanksgiving party, which will be the beneficiary of the festival, will be a post-Thanksgiving dinner affair for all Notre Dame and St. Mary's students who will be staying at school over break. Buffet snacks and a movie will be featured. O'Gill is currently considering showing Lawrence of Arabia or American Graffiti. 
Anyone who wishes to help out with the festival or the party itself is urged to contact Lucero at the Knights of Columbus (7018) or Fr. Robert Griffin, head fund raiser for the affair, at 7066. 
~-----··-----......
* The Observer ~ 

1=-=============1
~ 
Night Editor: Tim O'Relley Assistant Night Editor: Martha Fanning Day Editor: Brian Clancy Copy Reader: Ken Bradford Editorials: Jim Eder Sports: Bill Brink Typists: Mel Celeste, Karen Chiames 
Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz Night Controller: Howard Halle 





teet Gift
The per . 
your tuture . g or anniversary In ·u After the · a weddln ttab\e gin· · a
\f there s rtect untorge \ebrate it In here's the pe pecia\ date. ce ·ott \nn. A 
· · · . r on that s o\is Marrl . 
wedding. o at the \nd\anaP ·n be waiting. a \uxurious roo~ f champagne WI . and a $5.00 We\coming sp\lt ~fast the next mornmryg . a\\ this 
\ brea" ·versa · · 
continenta f the next ann' $20 00 tor an gift certific~t:s ~~r one night. ~u::autifu\ waY to be tor on\y $2 ·. ht {room on\y). additiona\ nlg together\ 1976
29
alone . Februarv •
ED • Expires RESERVATIONS REOUIR 
A.DVA.NCE . . . ..~ i#­
\fM 
~~~~r\ott \nn 
~ ~ l\r 
\®d\anapo\\S 
" 70 east • n
• Shade\and at\· (800l 22&-92.90 
21st • To\\ Free
1231
(317) 352· .. 
Sozne self-rule to cozne to·Scots 
LONDON (AP) -Britain's run can be avoided. the oil to-pull Britain out of Labor party government is put-Scotland, united with England economic trouble, the Scottish ting final touches on plans to since 1707, has an above-British reverse 288 years of history and average of 130,000 unemployed National party has been charg­hand back partial self-govern-despite all that oil. ing that London has mis­ment to the 5.2 million people While the government in Lon-manged the Scottish economy of Scotland. don has been devising nation-and claiming that "it's Scot-
It also plans an elected as-wide strategies and counting on land's oil." 
sembly for 2. 7 J•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••-••••••••••••••t
the million 
people of wales. : 
Some of Britain's 635 law-• makers in the House of Com-• mons in London are asking if : all this is the start of the • 
breakup of Britain, even though ••,•.
Prime Minister Harold Wilson has assured them: "There is no • question of any proposals for • the breakup of the United King-·• 
do~-~· government is scheduled ! to publish its proposals later • this month. • 
te~~e o::'~~v;l~u~~.a:~eth~f s~~~ i 
ject has come to be known, is : 
Edward Short, leader of the • House of Commons, who says it •• 
will be "the most important :In O'Shaughnessy Hall, by the Art Gallery: 
constitutional document of this ~ 
century." ~=z;;;•••••••••••••~..•••••••••• 
Devolution means the surren-~ *****************\ 
der of authority by ~ central * MAKE THIs * 
government to a regiOnal au-.* * 
* ·
thority. Scottish lawmaker Norman
Buchan, one of the leaders in the Labor ranks of the devolu­

~i~l~ssm~hvee~:~~;n~~~~io;:ts t~~! 
political aspects right, devolu­uon "is likely to set in motion an irr~versible slide toward
separatwn." A pledge by Wilson's Labori­tes in their general election 
~:r~f~!~~l~~~:.n the move to-Under pressure from Scottish and Welsh nationalist parties
calling for more independence, the Laborites promised that their government "will create
elected assemblies for Scotland an~h:~~:~~nment is pledged to introduce legislation in Parlia­
ment in the next few months. 
But some lawmakers are ask­ing whether, under the impact of Britain's economic stagna­tion and $420 billion worth of North Sea oil on Scotland's 
doorstep, separation in the long 
The Ob~erver is pubIished Monday through Friday and w')ekly during the summer session, except during exams and vacation periods. The Observer os published by the students of the Univ of Notre Dame and Sf Mary's College Subscripfoons may be purchased 
* CHRlSTMAS A *
* **
* 
: ttTENN IS XMAS'' t
* · * 
* GIVE THAT SOMEONE SPECIAL * 
A "SPORTING''GIFT THAT WILL **
* _ . 
*"SERVE LOVE" ALL YEAR 'ROUND**
* 


:* *
*
* 
*
* 
The University of Notre Dame Press : 
• • 

announces a : 
•
BOOK SALE •.•. 
• 

Discounts up to 90% ! : • 
• 
Today and Tomorrow only i• 
9·00 AM tO 4·00 P M • 
• • • • • • I 
spENI's PRO SHOP  :* ***  
321 SOUTH NOTRE DAME  *  

SOUTH BEND 233-8712 . :
************* 

CHICAGO 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE • ZIP: 60611 • TEL: (312) 944-7506 
Please add sales tax where applicable American Express • BankAmer/card Copyright© T. & Co. 
The smart groom bi.IYS her diamond ring at TiHany. . . ·.. ' ··..:··..... ; :':' .. '::: ':. :·.. . 
Growing wild in rural areas 






Marijuana crop offers harvesters free high 
by Maureen O'Brien Starr Reporter 
It's  harvest  time  again  for  
Hoosier marijuana.  
And  Indiana  legal  authorities  

and individual entrepreneurs are now racing to reap the illicit weed. 
Marijuana grown in the South Bend area is not very potent, some sources say. But marijuana grows wild and free in many rural areas in the county, offering the temp­tation of a free high. 
Indiana state law does not favor the private pot picker. Possession or sale of up to 25 grams of marijuana or 5 grams of hashish usually merits a court fine or a suspended sentence. Any amount above 25 grams of marijuana or 5 grams of hashish may result in a felony conviction and a prison sentence. 
An Indiana State Police officer claimed that total arrests for marijuana possession are up 100 per cent. The harvest by police 
claimed. "I would say four joints

World Hunger Cocrlition 
of Indiana pot are equivalent to one 
•


i11iticrtes lett~ ccrmpcr1gn 
(continued from page 1) 
coalition 

Letters should be stamped and addressed to an individual "As part of its Program of congressman or senator, u. s. Community Education, the coalit­
llouse of Hepresentatives or U. S. ion supplies films, speakers and 
literature on the problems of
20515 •

~~~ast:i·d~ashington, D. C. global injustice and hunger to "The letters can be mailed schools, parishes and clubs in directly, but we're asking thatthey South Bend", Allen related. be turned in to be offered at the For next semester, the coalition Notre Dame Thanksgiving Mass on is planning a continuation of the Nov. 24," Prinster explained. Wednesday Night Fast Program, a Coalition representatives will be South Bend Hunger Walk and a in Notre Dame and St. Mary'sdining congressional bill proposal. halls during the dinner hour on T-"An estimated 460 million people uesday, Wednesday and Thursday, suffer from malnutrition," Nov. 18-20 to collect letters and Gramelspacher stated, "and of the 
17 most developed countries, the U. 

answer questions. Each dorm!t?ry S ranks 14th on the list of con-
will also have a coalitiOn t ·.b t' t' , 
r.epresentative with lists of.all U.S. n..~~~f r:e 10~!gin to base our Senators and Representatives. . d l't' · · 
1d 

"Letters can be turned in to dining economic an po 1 1ca ec1s1ons on 
joint of Colombian." 
The high price of marijuana on campus is one reason given for harvesting local patches of pot. "Marijuana prices range from ten to twenty dollars an ounce," the source complained. "Good Colombian pot can cost thirty dollars an ounce." 
"I would say at least half of the students here who smoke try to grow their own," she continued. "But most of the real good stuff comes from Ann Arbor. Mich." 
The South Bend police depart­ment has improved their methods of catching pot smokers and pot harvesters in the act. "The 

officers is up 200 per cent, he ad­ded. 
"My partner and I raked in 
about one--half a ton of marijuana 
last year alone," Officer Mike 
Bolin said. "However, as far as 
the Indiana State Police are 
concerned, we're concentrating on 
the harder narcotics." 
Does the quality of the local 
weed justify risking a_ possible 
prison sentence? 
"Indiana home-grown pot is not 
as good as foreign-grown pot --like 
marijuana from Colombia," one 
local authority on the weed 
hall and dorm reps, Campus Ministry or the Student Activities office in LaFortune," Prinster 
added.
The coalition will launch the drive at a meeting tonight at 7 in the LaFortune Ballroom. The campaign will culminate on M­onday, Nov. 24, with a day-long fast followed by a Thanksgiving Mass celebrated by Fr. Theodore llesburgh at 10 p.m. in Sacred Jleart Church. 
"All letters collected by Monday from the Notre Dame community will be offered at the Offertory in recognition of the wealth that God has bestowed on us and our challenge to share what we have so that others may live," Greg (;rarnelspacher, Coalition research committee chairman, st­ated. 
"The Coalition has also sent 1200 letters to parishes in South Bend and St. Joseph County urging pastors to support the resolution and participate in the "Offering of Letters" on a parish basis," he added. 
The World Hunger Coalition was created in November of last year under the instigation of Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. Allen estimated there are now 50 members. In addition, ap­proximately 500 people are par­ticipating this semester in the Wednesday Night Fast Program in which the dining hall pays 75 cents per participant per night. 
According to Allen, the program will bring in approximately $4,000 in contrast to last year's $1,100. The money will be sent to overseas relief organizations and the poor of South Bend. 
Seven coalition members will attend the National University Conference on Hunger in Austin on Hunger in Austin, Texas, November 21-23. The trip is being financed by donations from Hesburgh and others. 
"As part of its Program of Community Education, the 
Like everywhere else in the Mid­
a. ~t~on~ sense of ~or~I. respo~­
west it is harvest time now for

.Slbll~ty' he added,., mllhons Will 
wild marijuana. Though not
contmue to suffer. 

B t·' d b •
u J.er e ate team Wlns 


Notre Dame hosts tournament 
by Phil Cackley Staff Reporter 
Atwo-man team team 'from Butler 
University won the final round of the 24th Annual National In­vitational Debate Tournament by a 1 four-to-one decision over a Un­
.versity of Iowa team. 
The topic for the tournament 
which was hosted by Notre Dame, 
was "Resolved: that the Federal 
government should institute a 
comprehensive program of land­
use control in the United States." 
A total of 46 teams from 29>sch­
ools in nine states participated in 
the tournament. Notre Dame's 
debate club entered one novice 
learn, but none of the more ex­
perienced club members debated. 
The club does not ailow its own 
teams to participate in the final 
rounds of a tournament held at 
Notre Dame. The novice team, 
which was debating primarily for 
the experience, did not make it out 
of the preliminary rounds. 
The final round was held Sunday evening at 7p.m. in the Law School auditorium. Approximately 20 spectators and judges watched as the two teams sparred verbally for an hour-and-a-half. 
The Butler team of Jack Guest 
and Randy loser maintained in 
support of the resolution that the 
federal government should ban 
nuclear fission paints and con­1concentrate km developing nuclear fusion as a source of power. 
The members of the Negative 
team (opposing the resolution) 
from Iowa were Mark Deathera~e and Kevin Finkel. They claimed that fusion is not feasible because it will take too long to develop that fission is not dangerous and that if fission plants are banned on the continent, power companies will build floating power plants of the oceans just outside the territorial waters of the U.S. 

Finkel said this would bring the serious possibility of a chain reaction with the hydrogen and deuterium present in sea-water, if there was any kind of accident. 
This, he said, would bring "the end of the world." Loser, from Butler, brushed aside this argument while 
steadfastly asserting the danger of nuclear fixsion and the inability of the Atomic Energy Commission to control fission plants and prevent disastrous accidents. "The AEC is a turkey," he said numerous time. 
Guest emphasized that fusion has none of the dangers of fission and the government should make the development of fusion a national priority as improtant as the Apollo space program was in the 1960's. 
The Butler team was awarded the tournament trophy in a short ceremony afterward., The last time Butler won the tournament was in 1967. 
ArmyROTC letsyou qualify for a doublelife! 
You can earn a commission while you earn your degree. ,, 
And that doubles your vocational opportunities. You can pursue either a civilian career or serve as an officer. 
Either ~ay, Army ROTC trains you for success. You learn valuable leadership and management skills which usually aren't offered by any courses. 
Yoq make no commitment when you enroll in the Basic Course. You can ace it or flunk it. Or, you can drop it. That all depends upon you. 
But you· owe it to yourself to look into Army ROTC. It might be your thing. At least it's worth checking into. 
number of arrests for mariJUana has increased due to the per­formance of the officers and better training programs," Capt. Ed \\'awrzyniak reported. 
But the South Bend police are not concerned with the use of the drug on the Notre 'Dame campus. "The Notre Dame campus is not under our jurisdiction," Wawrzyniak said. "We are only concerned if the student brings his business into South Bend. 
"In the past, we have had some problem with students in our East side taverns," he added. 
INTERVIEWERS NEEDED 
Westat, Inc. is in­
terested in hiring in­

terviewers for the St. Joseph County Housing Study. The job involves con­ducting personal in­terviews with households throughout the county. The following qualifications are required: -Must be available a minimum of 25 hours per week including evenings and weekends; -Must have access to a car while in­terviewing; -Must be available for 
a  4  month  period  
beginning the  first  of  
the year.  

The pay is $3.50 per hour plus travel allowance. If you are interested, cal Interviewer In­formation at 233-4102. 
Westat, Inc. 1843 Commerce Drive 
South Bepd, IN 46628 AN EQUAL OP­PORTUNITY EM­PLOYER 

~n;;-;s·~·.., 
: difference!!! \ 
• ~M"E FOit: e
: MCA... Owet lSJIIf$ :.
• 11 ol tapenenct 
:. OAT ..":'"' :.
II Sm.lll cllsm : LSAT Volum~-~ _, :



: GRE :
study ;•ttrills 

: AJGSB 
Courses th1t lrt • 

e COIISIIniiJ updltttl e
•
: OCAT r.p••:.~~~~~~ ,Of : 
e rttnrws of CI.SS e
• cnaT 
lessons lnd lor UH •• rR1 or suptll«mtnt•"' • 
: FLEX m•'":'' : 
• Mau·upslot



: ECFMG 
m•ncd lnsons : 


: SAT : 
NAT'L MED BOS !

: .......... 
• Moll cr........,, 8 weoks 
I 

e pnor to Exam e ~pring llo Fall comQjiCII • • Some courset offered on • 
• Maror Calnpu•• • 
: TEST DATES : e MCAT S.76 NMB'S 6-76 e 
• 
OAT 1·76 ECFMG 1·76 e e LSAT 2·76 FLEX 12-75 e e GRE 1·76 OCAT 1·76 • 

• 
ATGSB 1-76 CPAT 2-76 e e SAT 1-76 VAT 12·75 :


: .......... 


e INDIANAPOLIS e• 116JO GrMnfhire Drive •
Freshmen can.preregister Nov 13-2u,


ROCCO'S 
e lnd•anapolil, Ind. 46220 • 
• 1:1171 842-1267 •
1975, for Army ROTC during the Spring 
• CHICAGO CENTER :
Barbers & Hairstvlists semester. 
Army ROTC
Full Service Unisex Shop 
notre dame 



=flii-ti!1:
Make an Appointment or 

notre dame, ind.46556
. 



i!!,~~J! ~ 
Just D~;op By ! 

• TIST -~AIIAh()H •
!6\ phope: 283-6264
Roffler Products 

.~ t\rmy ROTC..Learn what it takes to lead. 

~ -7-~!!~:..~·:j
531 N. Michi an 233·4957 

DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
*lJ~d.Q!?,~~rver
Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is published by the students of the University EDITORIAL BOARD of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported AI Rutherford Managing Editor as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent Jim Eder Executive Editor the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­Pat Hanifin Ed itorial Editor mentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, Ken Girouard News Editor cartoons and regular columns express the views of their Bob Mader Campus Editor authors. Column·, space is available to all members of the Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor community, and leHers are encouraged to promote the free Ken Bradford Copy Editor expression of varying opinions on campus. Val Zurblis Wire Editor 
Tom O'Neil Features Editor 
Chris Smith Photo EditorBusiness Manager Tom Modglin Dan Sanchez Senior Night EditorAdvertising Manager Tom Whelan 
Monday, November 17, 1975 





P.O. Box Q 
solution is the ultimate renovation We are being cheated. TheAnti-bazoom of the Huddle." business college "strongly
The COUL Report identifies the recommends" certain courses to problem precisely--LaFortune is which we as juniors no longer have 
Half-time Show 
hopelessly inadequate for the access. Electives in other fields social needs of the student body. (many times undesired) are nowDear Editor: 
But the solution it offers-­replacing preferred Business Law It has been said that the women renovation of LaFortune--will not and Finance courses. Business. 
as well as the men came to Notre solve the problem. Renovation of courses that we were fortunate 
Dame to be educated, to learn, to LaFortune will be a big waste of enough to get are overcrowded. 
grow. . . and not to be put on time and money. These conditions seriously impair 
parade to show national televison COUL and Keeney properly the value of the education that we 
audiences and opposing teams a recognize the need for more receive. 
little skin. Is it appropriate then, neutral space to serve the complex 


The RFK-Sirhan Case
It is important to the future of th­
for the Notre Dame basketball social lives of our co-educational 
e student that there develops a
players to parade around the court student body, but the adequacy of 
close and personal relationship
wearing those very revealing neutral space will not be incr~sed 
between him and one or more
uniforms?· I think not. When significantly by rearranging 
professors in his major. If this 

women were admitted here, the existing inadequate spaces. What phil quadrini
relationship is not developed it is 
goal was coeducation, not sex. is clearly needed is more neutral impossible for the student to During the early part of the fall, the pistol used to murder Senat­The basketball players could space and that can be added only receive a fair and honest recom­or Robert F. Kennedy was refired and the bullets compared to theplay just as well wearing sweat­by building an entirely new student mendation to prospective em­seven bullets taken from the murder scene. The reason was, that if pants and sweatshirts, couldn't th­center--one that will serve as an ployers, scholarship foundations, any of the murder scene bullets did not match the test-fire bullets, ey? At least no one could saythat informal meeting and eating and or graduate schools. This also then they came from a different gun, hence, there was anotherI'l"ot.re Dme basketball players playing space for students, faculty, means that the student does not assasin. But on October 6 it was reported across the nation that the were being reduced to nothing but dnd perhaps even administrators. 

receive the individual attention independent panel of seven ballistics experts had determined that"bawoms" and legs, and being After all, Notre Dame 1is probably consistant with high academic only one gun killed Robert Kennedy. 
grouped together to perform. one of the few campuses in the learning. 

The opening sentence on the firearms examiners' report read:And we must surely all agree country with a hao.d-me-down It is important to the student that "There is not substantive or demonstrable evidence to indicate that 
that a dancing drill team would not student center. he should be offered a repetoire of more than one gun was used to fire any of the bullets." A seemingly be a fitting example of Notre I realize that a new student courses beyond that of the straightforward statement, this was as far as the members of theDame. Some people might get the center is not one of the University's 

minimum necessary 

press read. If they had read farther down the page they would have wrong impression of the women at high priorities. However, to make 
requirements. Why as an ac-

discovered that three out of the seven bullets recovered from theit more attractive to those who
Notre Dame. Maybe movies could counting major are we unable to murder scene were so damaged as to make comparisons im­be shown during the half-times of want ot beautify our campus by take an elective in our major? 

possible. As for the other four, it could not be concluded that they the basketball games showing ridding it of the somewhat non­
Why are we unable to elect came Sirhan's gun. tests
a from In other words, the were in­women being educated, learning descript Fieldhouse, let me course in the Finance department? conclusive. Nothing could be proved either way.
and growing in the Notre Dame propose that once the new center is Why must we seek an Arts and After CBS and NBC reporters went thru the report in a more

Memorial Library. built that the art facilities be 
Letters economics course to 

comprehensive manner, the two networks changed their previousKurt Gotta removed to LaFortune, and the 
substitute for our recommended 

stories. None of the other members of the news media did,present Fieldhouse razed. 
finance course? 

however, in spite of the fact that one of the ballistics experts,LaFortune, though not adequate 
To these questions we demand 

Lowell Bradford, issued a statement citing the media's misin­for a student center, migt very well 
logical and clear answers. To use


Hand-me-down 

terpretation of the report.
provide the open spaces and high 
the idle rhetoric that the increase 

The ballistics experts also reexamined the testing done by Losceilings the Art Department in these departments are only Angeles Police Dept. expert Dewayne Wolfer, whose ballistics tests 
Student Center requires for studios, kilns, and recent and temporary is in­

implicated Sirhan.< But they could not reach the same conclusion 
galleries. sufficient. Rather we maintain that 

Dear Editor: R. J. Lordi he did on major points of evidence. In fact, they could not even 
as student demand shifts there

I haven't seen the recent COUL match his test-fire bullets to each other, which they should have
must be a corresponding shift in

Report, but Terry Keeney's been able to if they were all fired from the same gun as Wolfer
administrative policy. In ac­

commentary in last Tuesday's claimed they were. The obvious conclusion then, is that Wolfer's
cordance with this belief we are


Cheated

Observer stated I that the Report testimony against Sirhan was either erroneous or perjured. This
requesting that the budget com­

recommends that: "Extensive was the story that should have made the headlines on October 6.
mittee allocate sufficient funds to

renovation of LaFortune Student And then there is the rest of the evidence, almost all of which

Acct. Majors 
our department to allow the

Center must be continued; it is a points to a second gunman. The autopsy states that Kennedy was
procurement of the necessary

delusion to consider the present Dear Editor: shot three times from behind at point-blank range. All of the wit­
personnal that will enable us to

building one that serves the After completing registration nesses place Sirhan in front of Kennedy, his 22-caliber revolver at
receive the quality education that

students' needs." This recom­last week: it is apparent to us, as least one-and-a-hillf feet away, if not farther. Then there were the 
we are paying for.

mendation requires further with most Junior Accounting number of bullets fired. Sirhan had an 8-shot pistol. Two bullets 
comment, especially since Keeney Majors, that there are serious David Farkosh were recovered from Kennedy and five more from five bystanders. 
also believes that "the ideal problems within our department. David Elliott The eighth was officially described as "list in the ceiling in­terspace." Another exited Kennedy's chest and still another passed thru the right shoulder pad of his jacket. There were three bullet holes in the ceiling panels, and an AP wirephoto showed two policemen pointing to what was described as a bullet hole in a door­frame. When confronted with this the police explained it thru ricochets and by denying there was a bullet hole in the AP wirephoto. 
For two years, former N. Y. Congressman Allard K. Lowenstein, a friend of the late Senator's and leader of the fight to reopen the murder case, asked the police to release these pieces of evidence so it could be determined whether or not 8 bullets did all of this damage. They refused. But suddenly this August they announced this evidence had been routinely destroyed, the ceiling panels in June, 1969. Yet on October 11, 1971, a Police Dept. Board of Inquiry report on a "reevaluation of the evidence" described "an in­
spection ofthe cediling panels". How could ceiling panels destroyed in 1969 be reevaluated and inspected in 1971? 
It can easily be seen, regardless of what the press says or what the police do, that the case against Sirhan Sirhan as the actual assassin of Robert Kennedy is rapidly falling apart. Although most Americans who did not watch the October 7th NBC Today Show or CBS Eveining News believe the case is closed, Lowenstein et al, will go back to court in Los Angeles on November 18 to deal with the questions raised by the ballistics tests. No one is too certain of what an open investigation will bring, whether there are horrors lurking beneath an official cover-up, as many fear, or just simple explanat­ions. But with presidential contenders shot during the last three presidential campaigns there really isn't any choice. And that's why Lowenstein will go on no matter what the odds. 



-----~---------­
------------, 
5 




World leaders set trade policies 
RAMBOUILLET, France ( AP) -President Ford and other leaders at the six-nation economic summit conference reached tentative agreement Sunday on new guidelines for world trade and currency ex­change rates. The United States· described the talks as "extraor­dinarily fruitful." 
However, strong opposition developed to a proposal by Sec­retary of State Henry A. Kissin­ger to transform the summit into a high-level group that will meet regularly to consider world economic problems. 
A spokesman for the West German delegation said Chan-cellar Helmut Schmidt spoke against the Kissinger plan, al­though he did agree to occa­sional meetings as problems arise. 
Notwithstanding this setback, however, the American delega­tion said "good progress was being made" and it appeared that President Ford and the leaders of Germany, Britain, Japan, France and Italy would cover the entire agenda Sunday with still a third meeting day remaining Monday. 
Secretary of the Treasury William E. Simon and finance ministers of the five other na­tions met separately Sunday morning and agreed to issue a joint statement at the end of the meeting to be known as the "Rambouillet Manifesto." 
That represented progress in itself, since U.S. spokesmen had said Saturday they weren't sure anything could be accom­plished that would justify is­suing a joint statement. 
The French-initiated summit was called to discuss monetary problems, inflation and the worldwide economic downturn, but the most that was expected to come out of it was a series of policy guidelines that indi­vidual nations could follow. 
A German spokesman said the finance ministers, following up talks by the heads of gov­ernment, tentatively agreed that their nations should smooth over sharp-up-and-down fluctuations in the value of their currencies. 

He said they also agreed that the six nations should pledge themselves not to resort to pro­tectionist measures, such as setting quotas, to restrain trade. "Some sort of statement against protectionism" would be contained in the joint state­ment, he said. 
President Ford had come to the 14th century chateau here expecting he. would encounter pressures from the other na­tions to do more to stimulate the U.S. economy, which woulrl in turn help the world economy. He anticipated these pressures in his first remarks, saying the United States couldn't do more than it was doing already. 
Spokesmen for both the Ger­man and Japanese delegations appeared to accept Ford's view, as neither of them called for greater activity by the United States, although the Germans were said to feel Ford could be more confident about the future because the United States depends far less than other nations on foreign frade. 



@PIONEER 
SX-535 AM/FM Stereo Receiver 
The receiver lor 
PBOPIB WhO think biU
and spend nn1a. 
Now you can get the stereo performance formerly found in only the most expensive receivers, at an easy-to-afford price. Pioneer's SX-535 has a Phase-Lock-Loop circuit for increased channel separation & lower FM distortion, and a direct-coupled amplifier output stage to give you more power over a wider range of frequencies. There are connections for two tape decks with switching to permit tape-to-tape duplication. Among the many fea­tures are: microphone and headphone jacks, switching for two pairs of speakers, FM muting, loudness control, separate signal strength and center-of-channel metefs. Minimum continuous power output of 20 watts per chan­nel into 8 ohms. 40Hz to 20.000Hz, w.th 0.8% maximum total harmonic diStortion. SIN 70dB. FM sensitivity 1.9.uV 

WAs $299.95--Now$235 



Hear the biD sound ol hi-li at abudget price. 
@ PIONEER" F-51 2-way Speaker System 
Ideal for any moderate pow~red st~reo system, this 2-way speaker system offers nch, soltd bass, a mellow midrange and sharp, crisp highs. 
I 


ALL AUDIO DEALERS WHO ARE BOLD ENOUGH TO OPENLY COMPETE WITH OUR FAMOUS DISCOUNT PRICES ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO CHALLENGE US IN A "PRICE WAR." PLEASE ACKNOWLEDGE BY OFFERING AND ADVERTISING TilE LOWEST PRICES THIS CITY HAS EVER SEEN. 
Get more of everything for less. 


$6495most. Outstanding specs include: SIN ?OdB. FM sensi-
WAS $125----NQW • tivity (IHF) 1.9.uV, capture ratio 1.0dB.
49 95
QUANTITIEs oF soME WAS $3$ ----­SPECIALS ARE LIMITED NOW 215 
®PIONEER~ 

~X-636 AM/ FM Stereo Receiver 
Here's a fine stereo receiver that'll keep you happy for a long, long time. Advanced circuitry includes phase-lock­loop, ceramic filters and large sr:ale integrated circuits for to1.• performance from records, tapes and broadcasts. In addition, it' has plenty of power to handle two pairs of speakers -even in large rooms. With a full range of program source connections. it handles two tape decks, with deck-to-deck duplication. Other features include: front panel microphone and headphone jacks, high fre­quency filter. loudness control. FM interstation muting, illuminated program source indicators. dual tuning me­
ters. Driving 8 ohm loads, minimum continuous power 
ou!put is 25 watts per channel from 20Hz to 20,000Hz, 
with a total harmonic distortion level of 0.5% at the 


(V} PIONEER. RT-1020L '' Stereo Tape Deck with 4-channel Playback 
Here's virtually every feature you've ever wonted in a tape deck. Plus the facility to playback discrete 4 channel tapes with its four playback amplifiers. Starling with three motors, three contourless heads and 1O'h-inch reels, the RT-1 020L has everything to recommend it for profeuion­al performance and operation at home. Features include: direction action push-button controls .•. click-free switch­ing •.. MIC/line mixing • , • sound-on-sound, mona mixing ..• pre-set program timer .•• pause control for editing ..• 4-digit tape counter . . • 3-step tape bias selector .•. 2-step equalizer , •• 2 speeds .•• dual level VU meters . , . headphone jack, plus much more. Of course, sound reproduction is superb. It's a Pioneer. 

WAS $649.95---­NOW $549.95 

EniDY thiS turntable 2 ways...bY performance and price 

BELT DRIVE TURNTABLE Motor: 4-pole syncnronous motor Wow & Flutter:<0.08%(WFIMS) S/N Ralio:48dB 



WAS $119.95----Now $89.95 







:~: !!.!!~~v~p~~!!,11S!!Eo suNDAY 
the observer Monday, November 17, 1975 

In lobbyist report 

Lowered drinking age favored 
1974 issue of Alcohol and Health In light of the report's findings,

(continued from page 1) 
Notes concerning the situation in Black concluded, "We feel that the recently lowered their drinking West Virginia after changing to an Indiana laws which recognize and age from 21 to 18 show no 18-year-old drinking age. encourage the mature actions and significant increase in the rate of "In West Virginia, officials said obligations of their youthful heirs traffic fatalities. The statistics are there had been no upsurge in drunk ought to, at the same time, again based upon the number of 

lower legal age in West Virginia especially apply to Indiana. West Virginia, like Indiana, had neigh­boring states with lower legal ages. 
The report quotes the Octobet 
Parking lots for break announced 
Over the Thanksgjving Break, student cars can be parkea in the D-1 parking lot, whether the student lives on campus or off­campus. 
The D-1 parking lot is directly 

east of the East Gate and is completely enclosed by a fence. 
r·-----~------------~..........,,........,..................~...,
One gate will be left open for the convenience of students reiJiaining on campus. 
The Security Department asks 
I ~ 
that all student vacate the Greenfield area over the break, 
I I 
since this area is difficult to patrol during adverse weather. 
~
I 
TbebeH 


GTcariaitl I 

cla11. I
I 
Road & Track Magazine has named our new fuel in­

I 
jected Datsun 280-Z the best GT car in its class. Making it 
I
"one of the ten best cars for a changing world." 
Go home on Allegheny. And Group 10. Save up to 33YJ% Leave before noon on weekdays­
II
Drop by and see if you 
save yourself some money. We roundtrip (up to 20% one way). anytime on weekends. 

·~~ 

~ dff

~~~$ 

Now Available at 
Jim Hammes Datsun 
2102 L.W.W., MISH. 255-9644 

8 miles north of the State Line 
_offer a wide variety of discount Groups of 10 or more save when Weekend Save up to 25% on 
travel plans with big savings for they purchase tickets 48 hours in your roundtrip ticket when you 
groups and individuals. advance and take off together. And go and return on a Saturday or 
The Liberty Fare. You can go you can each return separately, if Sunday. home and a lot of other places you like. Good everywhere we fly. For complete information on besides, with unlimited travel at Group 4-9. Save up to 20% all of our money-saving discount one low price. You get a choice of roundtrip. Groups of 4 to 9 save travel plans and flight reservations. 3 plans, too-7 days for $129, 14 when you make reservations 48 see your Travel Agent or call your days for $149 and21 days for $179. hours in advance and fly together local Allegheny Airlines reserva­Good everywhere we fly, except to and from selected cities. Stay at tions number. And get ready to go Canada. least 3 but no more than 30 days. home or anywhere else. 


Irish hockey team splits pair with Wolverines 
by Ernie Torriero coach Lefty Smith after the 9-6 
setback. "We made some key 

The Notre Dame hockey team errors and that hurt us. You can't inched its way from respectability expect to win and make those toward a position of contention in errors." the WCHA race this weekend as Less than 24 hours earlier, Smith the Irish and Michigan split at the had much to cheer about. "Ex-ACC. The Irish out-skated the cellent, just excellent," Smith second-ranked Wolverines, coming bellowed after the tenth ranked away with a 5-3 victory Friday Irish downed the Maze and Blue. night. But Michigan rebounded "The whole club really played with a 9-6 win Saturday. well. We are slowly seeing the 
"Michigan is a very good hockey coming of age of this team." team," explained Notre Dame Indeed, saying the Irish "played 





PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
INTF.RVIEWS SCH~DULED FOR WEEKS OF NOVEMBER 24 AND DECEMBER 3. 

Interviews Hre for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedule& an: in Room 213, Main Building. Interview times must be signed for in person. Law School sign-ups are at the Pre-Law Society Rulletin Soards, O'Shaughnessy Hall. The sign-up period at the Placement Bureau will be from 8:00a.m. to 5:00p.m., 
Monday through Thursday. 
Allied Chemical Corporation. Mon. Ph.D. in Analytic & Physical Chern. for research. Morristown, N.J. 
NOV. 24/25 Olin Corporation. 
Mon/Tues. B in ChE and ME. Mba with ChE or Chem undergrad. degree. Union Carbide Corp. Battery Products Division. B in all disciplines for Sales leading to Sales Mgt. 
NOV. 25 Reliance Electric Co. 
Tues. B in F.E, ME, MEIO. MBA with tech undergrad. degree. Pandullo, Quirk & Associates. Rm in CF.. and ChE. MD in Btol, Statistician. 
Wayne, N.J. 

DEC. Baltimore Aircoil Co., Inc. 
Wed. R in ME. and MEIO. Lever Brothers Company Rescheduled from Nov. 5 Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. B In all disciplines. Montgomery Ward and Co. All RBA. Phillips, Getschow Company. B in MEIO., Mgt., Acct. 
DEC. 3/4 Alexander Grant & Company. 
Wed/Thurs. B in Ace t. MBA with Ace t. Rack ground or cone. Keebler Company. All BIIA. Lincoln National Corporation. B in AL and BA. (Changed from 12/4 & 5) NASA -Lewis Research Center. BM in ME, F.E, AF.. 
DEC. 4/5 E. l. DuPon c de Nemours & Co., Inc. Thurs/Fri. .BMD in ChE and ME. 
DEC. 5 Goldman Sachs & Co. Fri. MBA. Republic Steel Corroration. 
well" Friday night could hardly be possible. Nugent slammed in his third goal 
termed an exaggeration. Notre The Wolves came out flying and of the series. 
Dame scored early as Alex Pirus by virtue of goals by Angie Moretto From the start of the third 
tipped a Brian Walsh ~hot throu~h and Ben Kawa, Michigan had a ~-period, it was all Michigan. The 
the legs of a surprised Robb1e zip lead with only eight minutes Maze and Blue scored twice before 
Moore at the 8:21 mark of the first gone in the game. Hamilton cut the lead to 6-5. Then 
period and the Irish were ahead to At the 13:29 mark, Paul Clarke the Wolves exploded three more 
stay. stole a pass deep in the Michigan times and at the 11:07 mark, 
Kevin Nugent, seeing his first zone and skated in alone on Moore. Michigan was in possession of a 9-5 
action of the season after being out With the Michigan defense in hot advantage. Brownschidle took a 
due to illness, put the Irish up top, pursuit, Clarke let fly with a shot loose puck and slid it past a prone 
2-0. The 6-5, 230 pound sophomore which plummetted through Moore for the final score of the 
took a pass from Roger Bourgue at Moore's pads for the tally. weekend. 
the blue line, lumbered down the Less than a minute later, Walsh "The difference between tonight 
right side of the ice and finally passed to Pirus in front of the and last," a dejected Smith ex­
uncorked a blast which seemed to Michigan goal. Pirus we.ited and plained, "was the defense 
go right throul'!h Moore. then whipped a backhand shot pass coverage in the zone.lt broke down 
"That was a good play by Moore and the score was knotted al. tonight. Michigan did a good job of 
Bourque" Nugent was to modestly two apiece. fore-checking tonight. They 
offer. "I told Roger to look for me The teams traded goals in the dominated in the third period. But 
as I had been getting free on the second frame, Kris Mawery our kids olaved real well. 
wing. He found me and I just got a knocked one in for Michigan, Pirus Notre Dame entertams U('nver 
good shot off." tipped in a shot from the point, n.ext weeker.d .. Plenty of good 
Michigan closed the gap to 2-1 Moretto tallied his second goal and ttckets are av.a1lable at the Notre 
1 · th d · d h . Dame box offtce. 
ear y m_ e secon peno w en jll • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
Doug Lmdskog poked the pu~k ·e VALERIE'S R-E-STAURANT •
under Peterson at 2:26. Donme • • Fairholm gave the Irish .another ;. 801 S MICHIGAN SO BEND • 
two-goal bulge when his shot \e • · · , • deflectedoffMichigandefenseman ·• (NEXT TO GILBERTS) 289 -0681 e 
Greg Fox's skate, behind Moore, at ·• • 
11 ~~~re was injured early in the ! OPEN BREAKFAST SERVED • third period and left the ice for • Mon thru Sat ANYTIME : 
treatment. The Irish greeted back-• 5 
up goalie Rick Palmer with their • am tO 9 pm : 
fourth goal. Once again it was • II am to 7 pm Sunday • 
Nugent, off passes from Don • • 
Fairholm and Bourque·, who ••JA IAN 
slapped the puck in from 30 feet at •' L SPECIALTIES : • 
1 
:?.~hat was the first time the big :sPAG H E TTI : line was together," Fairholm said e Sauce 1.65 Meat Sauce 1.80 Meat Balls 1.90 • of the line he cent~rs for Nugent :M0 S T A C I O L L I • 
and Allen Karsma. "We are , thinking offense and that's im-• Sauce 1.65 Meat Sauce 1.80 Meat Balls 1.90 • oortant " 1­Moorereturnedtothenetsthree ~ ASAGNA 2.35 RAVIOLI1.75 • mi~u~es later only to. be the r. <Dinners inc. Italian bread & salad and soup> : 
rectptent of a Clark Hamilton goal. : Moore kicked ~':It an Al.ex Pirus PASTA FAGIOLII<Italian bean soup> .45 5 65 • 
shot to the awa1tmg Hamtlton who • • rammedthepower-playgoalhome :ITALIAN SAUSAGE SANDWICH 1.1" at the 6:59 mark. MEAT BALL SA ~ 
Michigan came back late in the • _ NDWICH 1.00 • game to scor~ two goals within 4o : USE OUR liGHTED PARKING lOT •
seconds. But 1t was not enough as . . • the Irish hun~ on to ~in. s-3. . !l DOORS NORTH ON MICHIGAN ST• 
The Wolvermes spotled the Insh • bid for consecutive weekend : CARRY OUT ORDERS WELCOME • 
~;;~~~~d ~in~~~~e ~~:i-73h:!as~~t • A QUAliTY RESTAU RANT OPERATED BY-: ~e~~~o:e~w~f~~i~d~!~~u;d~}g~rt~ ~ • • j ~~~~~ ~~~i'. ~Ei¥LCi .s~~T~~~ •~~. ••: 


Bin EE, ME, Met., Acct. 
U.S. Government. (Interviewing for all agencies 

LASSIFIED ADS 
not recruiting on campus.) 
WANTED FOR SALE
B in AL and BA. 
NOTICES
:>irl needed tor role in independent Guitar tor sale. Excellent con­
LAW SCHOOL 
student production of Neil dition-moving, must sell. $200, or
Will do typing in my home. Call
Simon's "Star-Spangled Girl." (616) 699-5704, ask for Deb. best offer. Call Peg 287-8733.
Indiana Universitv. (Bloomington,) 
For more information, call Jeff

~ 
Mon. R ln all disciplines. 
1852 or Lou 2187. 
Will do typing, experienced. Term 
papers, manuscripts, etc. Call 233-FOR RENT Need ride to DC or Delaware Area, 8512.
Friday Nov. 21. Call Tom 1380. 
Two female housemates wanted to 
A course of action ... Air Force Share 3-bedroom house lm.
Employer Information. Alternatives, Teaching. Summer. 
Must have 6 main Hoor tix for ROTC. It you've got two academic mediately and.or next semester.
Aerosmith. Will pay extra. Call
Action/Prace Corps/Vista. Federal Service. 
years remaining in school 2112 blocks from Angela-NO In­
Sue 4888. 
(graduate or undergraduate) look tersection. Call 289-4303 between
Room 213, Administration Building. 
into our AFROTC programs. It's 5p.m. and 10p.m.
Need riders to Pittsburgh for one way of planning for a goodThanksgivingleaving Nov. 21; Bill future. Get all the details today. Rent my upstairs. Near SSO mo.
1653. 
Contact Capt. M.L. Stockdale 283· 233-1329. Keep trying. 6635.
Need ride to Syracuse, NY area, 
Friday Nov. 21. Call 6804. 
Pregnant and didn't mean to be? PERSONALS 
Call Birthright. 288-7640.
Need ride to Youngstown Pitt A.C. 
area Mon. Nov. 24. Share driving Used Books and Paperbacks Had a great time up In the bigand expenses. Jac 3597. 
Large stock of general reading city. Kathy says "Hi". Wish you material and o.p. books. Bring this could have come.
Going to Mich? Need ride to ad and receive one free paperback Miss you.
Grayling or along 1-27 for T-glving. 
with any $1.00 purchase. The M.M.
Will share driving and expenses. 
Bookstack 112 w. LexingtonCall Carl 6863. 
'Elkhart ln. 46514 C'mon, Mike. You could have done better than that!
NEED RIDERS to Mpls. or Accurate, fast typing. Call Mrs.
M-innesota for Thanksgiving 
Donoho. 232-0746 Debbie K.,
break. Leaving Fri. Nov. 21st. Call Last night 1coughed; It echoed.
"Bern" 289-9174. 
Typing $.35 a page. Call Dan 272-Need a chance! Call, please. 
5549. Love, Addict.
Need ride to N.Y. (Long Island) or 
vicinity, share expenses + 
BOOK SHOP. 30,000 Books and To the guy in Sec. 29 who sat on mydriving, can leave 11-25. Call Bill Prints . Ralph A. Casperson warm blue blanket during the6827. 
Books. 1303 Niles-Buchanan Road,· Navy game: now that It's cold Niles. Hours Wed. Sat. Sun. 9 to 7 outside, if you want to keep warmNeed ride to Youngstown Ohio or 
or chance. call 8067.
vicinity Thanksgiving holiday. Jlm 
8941. 
Morrissey Loan Fund $20 . $150. 1 Whaddya mean? It must be at day waiting period 1 percent In· least 60 out there today 1Babysitter-Housekeeper wanted. 
terest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune8-5 Mon-Fri. Transporting children 

....
basement M-F 11:15-12:15 
MARIA MIRTO WANl'S TO BEto school required. May bring own MS.1TURKEY AND SHE NEEDS
child. Call 289-8933 after 5. 
Need a tune-up? You buy the parts, YOUR VOTt:St 
1 will Install plugs, points, con­
LOST & FOUND denser and adjust your timing for Dear Mom. $8. Very experienced. Call Bob HAPPY BIRTHDAY! I miss 8610. your spaghetti. You want to send
Lost: 1 Silver ring shaped like a me some?
Love knot. Reward. Kelly 6416. 
Student Government T-Shlrt Love, 
Agency -for top quality plus low The freezing Italian In the land ofprices on T·Shirts. Ideal for clubs
Lost: Navy Blue ski Jacket. the Fighting trlsh. 
or dormitories. Phone Dave Bossy
Possibly contains SMC school ring. TONY
233·3647.
Really need coat for winter. Call 
cathy, 4958. Julie D. & George P.
Interested In Photography?? 
The N.D. Photo Club will have Its 
Congratul•tlons on your 1 foolishly lost my '76 class ring engagement.
third tn.eetlng•Tuesdav Night
Friday afternoon at the Howard St. A quickie Is the best, 1 guess. We
AT 7:15 In Room 205 O"Sh!lg. If
Laundromat (Initials E.R.B.J. If want to be In the wedding.
you ar~_ Interested you are
found please give me a call: Ed, Love & Kisses
welcomejto attend.
6111 or 234-8952. The 832 Sorln Gang & Friends 


~--~-------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, November 17, 1975
8 the observer 


Dorsett shatters Irish bowI hopes 
meanwhile, held the Irish offense
by Bill B~ink ~-.&,.Pi. ~....--::~.··_'-Z•_:~ 
Sports Edator .-.::_ · "' --. ""T' ""' in check with excellent play by end ¥ ' Randy Cozens and middle guard AI 
If trying to run through the Notre ' ii.•. · · . Romano. 

Dame defense is like trying to ·" The second half started slow 
build a highway through a with no one scoring until Gordon 
mountain, then Tony Dorsett is the Jones took a Joe Res tic punt out of 
dynamite that cleared the way. a swarm of ND defenders and 
In a performance which dazzled downfield 78 yards to the Irish 15 the sellout crowd of 56,48 that yard line. Long's 30 yard field goal jammed Pitt stadium and stunned attempt was good to make it 27-13 the Irish team, Dorsett rushed for with 4: 13 left in the third quarter. an amazing 303 yards on the On their next possession, Notre 

ground and added 71 yards in pass Dame began its most successful receptions to lead his Pitt Panthers drive of the day. Using Terry to a 34-20 upset victory over Notre Eurick and Jerome Heavens on the Dame Saturday afternoon. ground, and completing passes to 
The junior tailback from Eurick, McLane and Dan Alquippa, Pa. broke for 57 yards on Kellaher, Slager led the Irish down the fourth play of the gam~. the to the Panther ten. There, with first in chain of explosions that first down and goal to go, he hit would blow the Irish bowl hopes " Ken MacAfee with a scoring strike sky-high. Notre Dame had been ' to make it 27-20 and put the Irish
"' 
pegged for a Cotton Bowl invitation ... 
.. back in the game. 
and an estimated $850,000 if they But Dorsett was not through. had beaten the panthers, but -~~ Cooly taking the pitches, he Dorsett quickly took care of any .7 slashed his way down the field for traveling plans the Irish had for gains of 18, 18 and 16 yards to put
;t
the Christmas Holidays. Pitt on the Notre Dame one. "I'm bitterly disappointed," said Cavanaugh plunged up the middle

.. 
Notre Dame coach Dan Devine. The Irish pursuit could not catch the sensational Tony Dorsett in Pitt's 34-20 victory saturday. for the touchdown, and the Pan­"Dorsett put on a great exhibition The list of damages which Dorsett handed ND it's third loss of the superb fashion. After fumbling the thers had their final 34-20 margin. of running. He played a great heaped upon the Irish is over-season, the first time since 1963 the ball out of bounds for a nine yard Only Dorsett' s statistics were in game." 1 whelming. Irish have lost three regular gain on first down, he took the question now. With the crowd 
Pitt coach Johnny Majors was -His 303 yards rushing broke his season games. second down handoff, eluded cheering him on and his team less reserved. "It was the most own record of most yards gained -He scored two touchdowns, his the Irish defenders and raced 71 giving him the ball again and outstanding performance I've ever on the ground against Notre Dame, thirteenth and fourteenth of the yards for the touchdown. Carson again, he rattled off runs of 27 seen," he exclaimed. "I've never 209 set two years ago as a fresh­season, breaking the all-time Pitt Long added the conversion to give yards, 19 yards, some shorter runs come close to seeing a back in a man. record for most touchdowns in one the Panthers a 14-10 lead. With and then a final nine yard gain to key ballgame like this be so -His 374 total offensive output season. only eight minutes gone in the give him 303 yards for the game. superb. In fact, superb is not an broke Bob Greise's record of 322 -He spurred the offense to 411 game, Dorsett had 151 yards in He left the field with his arms adequate adjective." set in 1965. yards on the ground, tying the four carries. raised in the air and received a 
There is no adequate adjective. -He led Pitt to their first triumph record for most rushing yardage The two teams traded field goals rousing ovation. over the Irish since 1963, and against the Irish set by Michigan in the second quarter, Reeve "It's far beyond my wildest State in 1962. hitting a 47 yarder for the Irish and imagination that I would ever do
Bill Brinkt=============================================================================================:=:".l:============================: 
His, and his team's devastation Long hitting from 42 yards out for this," he exclaimed wearily after 
of the Irish was so complete that Pitt. Then, as if he hadn't come up the game. "I'm thrilled and feel 
the Panthers were offered and with enough explosive plays, very fortunate." 
accepted an invitation to the Sun Dorsett struck again. On a second Pitt's statistics were basically
The Irish Eye 
Bowl in El Paso, Texas on and six situation from midfield, Dorsett's statistics, though his December 26th, while the Cotton Cavanaugh dropped away from the backfield partner Elliot Walker 
:i:=w.===================================:".!:.=:=:~=======':.==".l:.=:::========".l:.".l:.===============================: The natural Bowl committee saw fit to extend onrushing Irish and hit Dorsett, added 74 yards on the ground. 
A performance such as Tony Dorsett's 303 yard output against the Irish their invitation to Georgia. who was all alone in the middle of Cavanaugh completed 5 of 14 Saturday was, in a word, inspiring. It was like viewing art, a picture of Both teaqls opened fast however, the field right over the line of passes for 94 yards. Jerome perfection, a vision of beauty. and the game threatened to turn scrimmage. With not a defender Heavens was the leading ball 
Still only a junior, Dorsett has grown up fast, running like a pro in the into a scoring contest. After near him, he ran easily to the ND carrier for the Irish, totaling 80 college game. As he goes in motion and takes the pitch from the quar­Dorsett made his 57 yard run to the 20, where he evaded the Irish yards in 17 attempts. Slager was terback, you can see him cooly looking downfield, watching his blockers, Irish 3 yard line, Panther quar­defenders and trotted into the end 17 of 32 in the passing department and picking his holes, sleek and fluid as he slips through the grasping terback Matt Cavanaugh wheeled zone. Dorsett threw the ball into for 158 yards. defenders. He begins to churn downfield gathering speed and outracing around the end for a touchdown. the stands, costing the Panthers 15' The Panthers ran away from the anyone chasing from behind. Then he confronts the rest of the defenders Pitt led 7-0 with but 57 seconds yards on the following kickoff, but great Irish tackles Steve Niehaus one-i>n-i>ne, and it is no contest. With a quick fake or a subtle change of gone in the game. Pitt had a 24-13 lead to enjoy at and Jeff Weston and used Dorsett direction, he is past them and gone. Five minutes later Notre Dame halftime. on pitch-i>uts all day. The play 
Dorsett is without a doubt the finest runner the Irish have faced this struck back with a 48 yard field "The pass was what we call an worked to perfection and Dorsett's year, probably the best they've faced since O.J. Simpson. He is pure, goal by Dave Reeve to make it 7-3. 'ice'," said Dorsett. "I freeze great ability overcame any natural talent, accomplishing with ease what other great backs earn only On the ensuing kickoff, Gordon while the defense rushes in and changes the Irish tried to im­through hard work and bruisng determination. It has got him what he Jones fumbled the ball and Steve then take off. When I threw the plement. deserves; fame, national honors and a lot of publicity. Orsini recovered for ND at the ball in the end zone, I knew it was a "We tried to make the normal 
This has necessitated that he grow up fast. Dorsett handles the Panther 5 yard line. Four plays penalty, my emotions just con­adjustments," said Devine. "But limelight with poised bouyancy. In the jubilant Pitt locker room after the later quarterback Rick Slager trolled my thoughts." one guy kind of dominated the game, as he signed autographs and shook congratulatory hands, he snuck in from the one to give the But he had also controlled the game which made any ad­fielded the countless question that came from the throng of reporters Irish their only lead, 10-7 with 7:33 game. His explosive runs enabled justments inadequate. We were around him. The questions all seemed irrelevant, Dorsett had said it all left in the first quarter. the Panthers to take com­out-executed."
a on the field. Instead of interviewing him you felt like you should be asking But Dorsett struck back with manding lead even though they The defeat put Notre Dame at 7-3 him for his autograph. Nevertheless, he did offer some of his views on lightning quickness. Starting at had the ball on 2:56 in the first for the season, with their final 
different topics. their own 20, Pitt went to its quarter and just over nine minutes game next Saturday night against On his 303 yard performance: I just can't find words to express it all. strength, and he responded in in the half. The Pitt defense Miami of Florida. This is as happy as I'm going to be. Only once, against Army earlier this year did I feel I had a chance for 300 yards. But I never dreamed I'd get 
300 against Notre Dame. This won't wear off for me until about Monday. I'm going to enjoy this victory, it's the biggest game of my life. >­On Notre Dame: I try extra hard against everyone, not just this week. ' 
But face it, Notre Dame is one of the top teams on our schedule. They bring out the best in everyone and I may have gotten a little more psyched for them. Notre Dame is the name, when you're growing up you have a dream to go there. I had a dream to go there, but I just didn't go. On Steve Niehaus: We knew Niehaus was great, but I didn't see too much of him today. On the Heisman Trophy: This performance may give me a lot of help for " · the Heisman. It'd be nice, but I'm not thinking of that yet. We're just going to finish• ~he season, and whatever happens, happens. On throwing the ball into the stands: I was happy, real happy. I let my emotions control my thoughts. I knew it was a penalty before I did it, but 
I 
I was just happy. The coach, he didn't dig it too much. He told me to be careful, that if it was a second before the game was over it wouldn't be so bad. But in a game like this, he told me, anything could happen. On blocking and faking: It's all part of my job. I don't mind it. I know I can't carry the ball all the time. I have to give a lot of credit to my teammates, they did a great job. I loved it, they loved it, and this is all as much theirs as it is mine. 
" 
"I'm very fortunate this happened to me," he said. But that's a bad way to put it. It all didn't happen to him, he made it happen and before he's through he may have made it happen better than anyone else to ever run the ball. Saturday's sensational performance is one of those that a great player comes up with when there is hardly anything left for him to J. do. 
He already holds the all-time Pitt rushing record. He broke it in the third game of his sophomore year. He was an All-American as a fresh­man, amassing the most yards in one season (1,686) and in one game 
(265) for a freshman. He has 1,419 yards this season and 4,108 for his career. With Archie Griffin just over 5,000 in his senior year, Dorsett has a good chance of topping Griffin and becoming the NCAA's all-time ~· rushing leader. 
~ 
"When I play, I like to think of it as performing," he says. 
Once Dorsett got around the end, he was virtually unstoppable. 
He sure puts on a heckuva show. 






