Ford escapes second assassin 
•
Shot 1nisses as police1nan deflects W'o.man's a1.m 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) "Squeaky" Fromme was ar­air. The minute his hands were cees president, recalled, "We Police said Mrs. Moore was 
President Ford was leaving rested on a charge of at­up, the shot rang out. He look­heard the shot and stepped on about 35 to 40 feet from Ford when California when a .yoWlg . wom­tempted murder of the Presi­ed petrified and scared. the gas. Even though we sped she fired. They said she was an an apparently tried to shoot dent after she pointed a gun at "His face was ashen. The Se­up, the police still were able to activist in a number of leftist 
him Monday, the second such him from a distance of about cret Service shoved him in the block off the entrance ramps to causes in the Bay Area, including a 
incident in California within two feet. car. It was really horrible. I the freeway." 
massive food give-away last yearthree weeks. Earlier Monday, a young couldn't believe it." With police sirens screaming, intended to help secure the release The shooting incident, in man was taken into custody Stephen Weicker. Junior the presidential motorcade of kidnaped heiress Patriciawhich Ford was uninjured, oc­outside the hotel where Ford Chamber of Commerce presi­raced through the downtown Hearst.
('Urred after he had delivered a was to speak and booked on dent, said he was in parked car area at speeds reaching 60 Police Lt. William Jordan said,pair of speeches. suspicion of threatening the life ready to move out with the miles per hour, then hit U.S. 
"It's yet to be determined butPolice took a woman identi­of the President. presidential motorcade when he Highway 101 heading south to­apparently she's onthe fringe of afied as Sarah Moore, 45, into By the time Ford had fin­saw a shot fired 20 feet in front ward the airport. 
ished his speech, a large crowd of him. "I saw a huge flash and A helicopter followed over­number of radical groups. I have custody after she allegedly 
fired a shot as Ford left a hoping for a glimpse of the then I heard a plop, and almost head and 18 police motorcycles no doubt that she is personally 
involved with some of them."
downtown hotel to leave for the chief executive had gathered immediately saw 15 guys iump with flashing lights cleared the "When she wa s with us sheairport. The gun was deflected behind police barricades on into the crowd," he said. freeway lanes ahead of the 
by a policeman just as it went dowtown Post Street. The block Weicker said he looked back President's bullet-proof lim­espoused no political views toward off. a San l<'rancisco policeman had been cordoned off for his to see the President "but, by ousine, sometimes pulling mo­the establishment or anyone else," said. departure. that time, the President had torists to the roadside. One pa­Kramer recalls. 
Spcret Service agents hustled Dozens, if not hundreds, of ducked behind the roof of his trol car led the way and two "But I understand that she had the Prl'sident into his waiting persons saw the incident. car. cars followed closely behind the gotten quite close to a number of limousine. according to wit­"I was right out by the barri­"We moved the car through presidential limousine. the organizations the SLA assigned nesst•s. and the presidential cade on the side where the police and rode as fast as we Earlier· in the day, JUSt seven to oversee us." motorcade sped to the airport, President came out," said Mar­could around Union Square and minutes before Ford was to be­The Symbionese Liberation w!Jt>re l<'ord left immediately tine Vignali, 21, of nearby San onto the freeway." gin his first of two addresses at Army, which kidnaped Miss for Washington. Mateo. "The first thing he did Another motorcade driver, downtown hotels, a young man Hearst, had demanded the food 
.Just 17 days ago, Lynette was wave both hands up in the Joseph K.P. Armin, a past Jay-identified as Ronald Carlo, 24, giveaway in tape recordingsof San Francisco, was taken released after the abduction. Theyinto custody and booked on sus­also demanded that certain radical picion of threatening the life of groups, including the Unitedthe President. 
Prisoners Union, be allowed toPolice said they had picked direct the giveaway.
Moore up with a gun the day before Back at the White House, Fordand she was questioned by the said if a President cannot goSecret Service which had her on a among the people "something has "questionable Jist." 
gone wrong in our society ... " Immediately after the shot, "The American people are goodMoore was wrestled to the ground people," he said. "And under noand arrested. She was arraigned circumstances will I -and hopelater on a charge of attempting to no others-capitulate to those whokill the President and ordered held want to undercut what's good in 
on $500,000 bail. 
America." 
Ford was emerging from the St. Ford did not flatly pledge, as he Francis Hotel in midafternoon had after an abortive assasination when the shot was fired from a attempt in Sacramento, Calif., on crowd of onlookers. San Francisco Sept. 5, that he would stick to his police said the gun was deflected style of appearing in crowds and by a spectator. shaking hands. 
•
Quad debates climax SLC campalgns 

volved questionaires, and a computer read­out. 
Although last year's coWlcil failed to formulate a feasible policy, both Spurling and Van 1a!ssel said that the previous study 
North Quad 
should be considred by this year's coWlcil 
when drawing up a new policiy. 
Spurling then directed his comments by John Calcutt toward the coed dorm proposal. Staff Reporter He said, "I think that if we're ever going 
to become a coed institution, we've got to 
Three of the four candidates running for start working at that (a coed dorm) right the North Quad seat on the Student Life now." Council met for an informal discussion at McLinden commented that the Keenan­

South Quad 
by Mary Reher Senior Staff Reporter 
Roughly twenty students rallied to hear 
Simhauser stressed getting action rather than just talking. One of the p\ans he proposed is restructuring the Judicial Board, which is presently appointed by the Dean of Students. 
Hogan cited confidence in the individual as the major factor in the election. 
"It has to come down to a personality contest. We are here for only one year, so we have no long-range gv.als," he noted. "Voters must rely on per~ality to decide who to vote for " he said. 

the Keenan Hall chapel last night. Stanford proposal is ridiculous if the the South Quad SLC candidates' views last Those candidates in attendance were Sean parietals are different for the two halls. night in the Morrissey lobby at 11 p.m.McLinden, a junior from Keenan, Jim Van a~ssel asserted, "There must be a The candidates are Tom Hogan, a senior Spurling, a Zahm senior; and Ed Van1assel, total elimination of parietals for the coed from Cavanaugh; Mike Richter, a junior a Keenan Hall junior. dorm atmosphere to be natural." from Sorin; John Salavesh, a junior from 
The candidates discussed parietal He said that the Grace proposal, the Alumni; and Andy Simhauser, a junior from 
regulations and the proposal to make Keenan-Stanford proposal, or anything Pangborn.
Keenan-Stanford a coed dorm. would be a step in the right direction. 
Richter opened the meeting, "I am glad 17 people showed up here because I Wlderstand only 13 people came to hear the North Quad candidates earlier tonight. Maybe that means South Quad is not as apathetic as North. 
He expressed a main concern to see a large voting turn~ut in today's election. 
Criticizing the editorial in yesterday's paper regarding the elections, he voiced a need for a better way to communicate with the students than the Observer. He urged personal contact of the SLC members themselves with the students.
The SLC candidates field questions at the North Quad forum. From left are Sean Mclinden, Ed Van Tassel and Jim Spurling. (Photo by Tom Lose) 
•students apathetic'
Spurling said that he would like to see a Spurling thought that if a new coed dorm standard University policy on parietals was built, alumni contributions to the which would regulate all halls. "The University would recede. "We would be "Most students do not really know what is students would remember when they can hurt a little just like when the university going on," he said. "I asked 75 students and can not go into all the halls," he ex-when coed," afded. what Student Affairs is and only three of plained. McLinden disagreed, and said, "I Van Tassel disagreed, "I don't think that them knew." think that individual halls should set their parents or alumni will support the own parietal hours. That's a part of their university any less." Salavesh noted that most students feel individual freedom." Spurling responded, McLinden felt that none of the present that the SLC is a "hopeless cause." "That might be fine. But I really wonder buildings on campus were feasible for the "The SLC has been a joke for a long time how feasible it is." proper atmosphere of a coed dorm. now, but you have to have some kind of faith A certain fraternity of Boilermakers will 
He said that students moving into the halls Van 1 assel again disagreed, saying, "Of in it. It is not a hopeless cause -I wouldn't be boiling mad If they see the above. In a would not have anything to say about the course those students living in a coed dor­be running if it were," he said. surprise raid Sunday morning Keenan parietals. mitory would sacrifice some privacy. But "You have to play the game," Salavesh Kommandos Brian Hegarty and John Brian Hegarty, an active participant in we aren't forcing anyone to live in a coed stated, "when you're dealing with the Lawton captured the Purdue Theta Chi's prize-winning banner. The Theta's Chi's
the discussion, noted that last year's SLC dorm. !Jtey can al~ays live in the single­faculty and administration. You can't 
scream and yell and get things ac­knew they'd been short-sheeted, and In the 
frequently referred to an old parietal study sex residenc~ halls, he a~ded. 
In conclusiOn, the candidates urged all complished." He added, "it takes time and words of one of the Greeks' earlier risers, conducted two years ago. This survey in-students to vote. that's "no sheet." (Photo by Tom Lose)
cooperation from the students." 



---------------------~-----.----­
Tuesday, September 23, 1975
the observer 

warld briefs 
PENSACOLA, Fla. (AP>-Hurricane Eloise, building its winds to a llO-mile-an-hour screaming fury, raked a four-state area of the Gulf Coast with torrential rains and pounding seas Monday night. 
The hurricane's highest winds grew to llO miles an hour and were expected to strengthen further as it bore down on a 150-mile-long crescent-shaped stretch of the Gulf of Mexico coast. 
WASHINGTON (AP>-Further U.S. grain sales to Poland have been suspended until a new long-term agreement can be worked out with the Soviet Union, informed sources sa.id Monday. 
A trade source indicated that other Eastern European countries, including East Germany, also may be involved in the new em­bargo. 

an campus taday 
3-5 p.m. -student dance instruction with fran demarko, Iafortune ballroom 4 p.m --lecture by archer tongue, director of international council "n alcohol and addictions haggar hall aud. 4 p.m. -workshop lecture-demonstration by emily frankel, dancer o'laughlin aud., smc 
4. 30 seminar "role of the apical end organ in development of the bass tapeworm proteocephalus ambloplitis" by dr. james r. coggins room 278 galvin lite sci. aud. 5:15p.m. -evensong vespers log chapel 
7 p.m.--meeting headstart volunteers Iafortune rm. 1-c 
7:30 p.m lecture "creativity in bank marketing," by peggy b. carberry, marketing officer, first bank and trust co. carroll hall, madeleva mem. bldg., smc 7:30-9:00 p.m. --prayer meeting charismatic prayer meeting Ia fortune rathskellar 
7 30-9:00 p.m.--social dance instruction for faculty and staff only, with fran demarko, Iafortune ballroom 
8.00 p.m 10 p.m.--movie stagecoach engineering aud. tickets $1. · olso showing sept. 24 
8 00 p.m. reception ladies of notre dame reception for new mem­bers 14th floor, library 9 p.m. initiation knights of columbus 10 p.m. -meeting knights of columbus, k of c hall 
6,844 undergraduates 


Enrollment tops record 
A record number of un­dergraduate students--6,844--are enrolled this year at the University of Notre Dame, but total ('nrollment of 8,664 is down 144 because of fewer students in post­baccalaureate programs. 
A preliminary report from the University Registrar also noted a dip in the number of first-year students. where a planned cur­tailment in admissions resulted in 1,641 freshmen compared to 1,701 last year. 
Although Law School enrollment 
St. Ed's resident 

injured in fall 
Dan Heinmiller, a freshman resident of St. Ed's Hall, fell over a bannister to the floor below Friday night. suffering a deep head concussion. 
The student remained in in­tensive care until last night, 

!\: though he suffered no paralysis or 
i; brain damage.\!' Heinmiller, bleeding heavily, was immediately taken to the hospital by an ambulance, and remained in surgery for nearly one 
i I 
and one-half hours. He was ac­

I' 
companied by hoth his rector and

i I 
assistant rector following the fall,

II 
I I which occured between 9:30pm to 
i. 
10 pm. 
He is expected to remain in the hospital for a period of at least ten days. 

11as up slightly. the total post­baccalaureate enrollment dropped from 1,988 to 1,820 because of a !'\ational Science Foundation 1-(raduate student enrollment cycle. 
l1ndergraduate coeducation started in 1972 at Notre Dame. and then• are now 1.341 women Qac­caluareate students compared with 1.1321ast vear. There are now 412 wonwn in. post-baccalaureate programs. compared with 446 last 1·ear. 
llndergraduate enrollment by ('OIIeges is as follows: Arts and LPtters. 1,948, including 545 women: Business Administration, 
1.497. with 208 women: Science. !l:l:l. of which 186 are women: and Engineering, 1125, including 73 wonwn. There are 329 women in the Freshmen Year of Studies Program in a total enrollment of 1.641. 
The enrollment figures include l'\otre Dame students currently at Pight overseas campuses and in associated programs at other universities. 
The Observer •S p·ublished Monday 
through Friday and weekly during 
the summer session, except durmg exams and vacation periods The Observer •S publ•shed by the s~udents of the Univ. of Notre Dame and 51 Mary's College 5ubscr•ot•ons may be purchased tor 10 dollars per semester 118 dollars per year I from The Ob server. Box Q, Notre Dame, In d•ana. 46556 Second Class postage pa •d. Notre Dame. 1 N 46556 

I .. ' '  INPIRG  
i ;,  rrhere will be a general information  
meeting and afterwards  
a discussion (and sign-up) for  
planned projects for 1975-7fi  
Come and find out what your  
$3.00 is paying for  
THE RATHSKELLER  
LA FORTUNE  

 September 2~  7:00  

SMC hosts renoW"ned dancer 
Emily Frankel, world renowned interpretive dancer, will be at Saint Mary's College this week for two days as part of the "In­ternational Women's Year" segment of St. Mary's annual Performing Arts Series. 
Miss Frankel will give a lecture-demonstration, in 0 'Laughlin 
Auditorium, Tuesday, Sept. 23 at 
4:00p.m. It will be open to the public free of charge. With narration and illustration Miss Frankel will show how a dancer develops as an instrwnent­step by step--and then create a ballet using the audience as the artistic source. All students r,re urged to attend. She will give a solo performance of Mahler's Fifth Symphony, the following day at 8:00 p.m. "'" l•'<<mkd ""' lmelled lhe 
11orld. pt>rforming her own l'Ol11JlOSIIiollS and those of Todd 1\olt•mlt>r. Zachan Solov. Norman \\ ;tlkt>r Erin i\l;irtin and Mario 
ll!'!anw Sa1·s <'lil'e Barnes of the :\t'\1 York .Timt>s, "A dynamic st;lgt· pt>rsonality. particularly excursion, at once dramatic, ef-Department of Speech and Drama. fective, unexpectedly chilling." Members of the Michiana dance 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community have also been invited. Speech and Drama Department is General admission to Wed­hosting a reception for Miss nesday night's performance is Frankel immediately following $2.50 and $1.00 for students. Saint Wednesday night's performance. Mary's students receive com-
This is open to dance students and plimentary tickets. For ticket 
f11~
1 ~~a~n~d~f~ac~u~l~ty~m~e~m~b~e~rs~o~f~th~e~i;:nforma tioncall 284-4176.
THE POSTER ;JPLACE 
t 
100 t ' 1 1 X 17 POSTERS t only $10.00 t f 
/NSTY : .,, ~~~ 
PR/NTS f F D ·f
t ran eMarko A 
203 Says: ' 
, A "1F YOU HA VE f
No MAIN ST. ~ ' 
SOUTH BEND ATWO LEFT FEET f 
' " 
rl'X,:;I.:..:_lr:_:t'S.::.:'S:_:_il'~('~,s:_-_:h::__P_:_:_IH:_:,:li_:::ld~S~\\~'it~h__-:s~ki~JJ~a~n,J,!;:;;;;;;;;;;2;;;;8;;;;9;;;,;;;;;-6~9;;;7;;7;;;;;;;;;;;;,;;;;;;;;,;;;;;;;;,;;;;;;;;,;;;;;~t YOu AL WA YS t 


HOKEY'S 

CAP 'N CORK 
(UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT) 
NOW SERVING so. BEND'S LARGEST 
GLASS OF BEER 24 OZ· -soc 
4 PIECES OF FRIED CHICKEN 
FROM 6-10 P·M. ONLy 99¢ 
NILES AND LA SALLE AVE. 
t HAVE A 50-50 t t CHANCE OF t t BEING RIGHT"! t f SO f 
A USE THIS FOOT. . . . . . f ' TO GET YOU IN FOR' FIRST LESSON ONLY t
' (CLIP AD ANDf PRESENT f
t TO CASHIER AT TOP OF STAIRS.......... t 
~~~~~~~~~~tm ~t 

50c off /g. pizza  You don't have  
this Wed. with  to  be 21 to eat  
this AD  pizza at Louies  

1.:.._:____====:___:===~~~ ___ 
ARE YOU TIRED OF THE INCONVENIENCE OF A DOWN­
TOWN FAST PRINTER OR ARE YOU TIRED OF BEING HARASSED AND TURNED DOWN ON CAMPUS FOR 
THOSE RUSH JOBS? THEN COME TO THE 





Campu1 
P1e11 
ONE DAY SERVICE 
ON ALL CAMERA READY 81/2 x 11, 
81/2 X 14, & 11 X 17 POSTERS BROUGHT TO .CAMPUS PRESS BY 2:00PM 
HOURS-1 TO 5 MONDAY THRU FRIDAY IN THE BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE 
WE PRINT ANYTHING ­POSTERS, TICKETS, BOOKLETS. CARDS, ETC. RESUMES, WE 
ALSO MAKE DITTO & MIMEO COPIES. CHECK OUT OUR PRICES FIRST. 
1 
t BALLRCX>M t 
f CLASSES BEGIN TUES f t SEPT. 23 TODAY f t IN THE AF"lERNOON. t 
3 to 5PM t ALSO EVERY WED & 
AFT. ' f BEGINNING SEPT 24 A i TOMORROW ' ' CHANGE PARTNERS ff EVERY MINUTE! & 
A $2 FOR LESSON ' ' WITHOUT THIS AD f 
f FUN f t ART & HOBBY ' 
f EXERCISE & RELAXATION ' f POPULARITY f 
A NEW FRIENDS & 
' CULTURAL ' 
A DEVELOPMENT & 
' AND ' 
f ROMANCE f 
: Fran says: 
l 

A LEARN THE ........ A
o 

' "FOREVER" BIG ' 
f FIVE t
f FORMAL DANCES. . . . f 
f FOR YOUR........... A FORMAL COCKTAIL ' f DANCE PARTIES! ! ! ! f 
f LEARN THE.......... ff "CURRENT" FAD & DANCES ' 
f SUCH AS: f 
& BUMPS.... HUSTLE. &
o 

' FOR RIP SNOIRTIN' '
f PUB CRAWLIN'! ! ! ! f 
A ALSO: . A ' FACULTY.. o STAFF ' f ONLY & A CLASSES BEGIN: ' ' TUESDAY EVENING f t SEPT. 23 TONIGHT t t 7:30... 'fO.. 0 9:30P.M. t t ~T¥:~~ ~~AJ~NY AS t t ~y~H. t 
t BEGINNER t t STUDENT. . t t ~~£~LTY ..• 0 STAFF 
MAY JOIN ANY CLASS ~ 

-------------_________,,2l~~<:._~~~~J 

by Kathy Mills Senior Staff Reporter 
Life in the on-campus residence halls of Notre Dame has obviously altered from the days of man­datory study, lights out, class halls and pre-coeducation. Yet, many rectors and hall residents have agreed that life in dorms has un­dergone more changes, however subtle, over the past three to four years. 
Alumni Hall President Jay Nowack observed, "The social life was better two years ago because of the alcohol regulations." 
Bob Waddick of Fisher echoed Nowack. "Parties are now restricted to small, private groups. 
Social life has died off in the hall. We're trying to revitalize it now," explained Waddick. 
He added, "The students tend to make their own social life. They don't look to the hall as much as they did in the past." 
Careless spending blamed 
• I ~ ~ ' ' 
Tuesday, September 23, 1975 
the observer 
3 

•
Coeducation brings changes ID dorm life 
Fees hiked to cover debt 
off-campus to have fun. 
Students Go Off Campus 
Ivan Brown, president of Holy Cross Hall, stated he is "worried" about the freshmen who are going off-campus to have fun. 
"Students can't have as good a time as they want to," asserted Flanner Hall President Mark Kaiser. 
A survey conducted by Fr. James Schiltz in the spring of 1974 indicated that, of 379 responses, over two-thirds of the male students moving off campus were doing so "to get away from campus regulations." Ap­proximately 950 men had to leave the halls that year to provide housing for incoming freshmen. 
Fr. Eugene Gorski, rector of Howard Hall, remarked that, two years ago, rectors could permit the social activities they deemed "appropriate," and students could "imbibe alcohol, although all social life does not depend on alcohol." 
"Last year," he continued, "this 

hy l'at Mikl's Staff HI'JIOI'tl'r 
This ~'l'ar the Student Activity fPt' rost• to $17. a three dollar in­lTPase from last vear. The reason for thP incr<'ase is a $:!5,000 debt in llw activities fund which must be paid ht>fore the planning of this yPar's hudgPt. Last year the Studt>nt llnion and the Student <;o\'t•rnmPnt spent a total of $204,000 while lht• income was only $11\l.OOO. 
StudPnt Body !'resident Ed Bvnw attributed the deficit to nirl'lt•ss spPnding practices by the Studt>nl Union una Student <;ovPrnmPnt. Byrne also said that tlw main problem last year was a 
lack  of  comnnmication  between  
Studt•nt  llnion  aud  Student  
( ;0\'l'l'llnll'llt.  

'J'rpasurPr .John Hargrave !'lahorated. saying that the 
eommissionPrs of the Student llnion did uot accurately account for t ravl'l l'XpPnses, rental fees of llw Pngim•l'ring auditorium, phone ehargl'S, and other items of this uatun•. According to Hargrave, 
lhl' l•nors wl're caused by poor hudgd eontrol by the Student < 'omptroller. 
ilargravt• also stated that the total expense for activities such as movies and concerts has risen Pnough so that the increase is u<'eded. 
The big losses to the activities fund wen• incurred last Aoril by the Alice Cooper and -Herbie llandcock concerts. Alice Cooper was scheduled as one of three eoncerts in a two and one half week period. Tlw expensive concert did not sell since it was scheduled very close to finals. 
Bvrne estimated that the loss frmn these two concerts wiped out tlw entire profits from all previous concerts last year. He added, "We took it in the shorts." 
This year the budget offices appear to be in much better shape. "As far as I'm concerned," stated Hargrave, "the problem has been taken care of. Jim Hummer has completely revamped the office of eonlptrollcr." 
Hummer has reorganized the office considerably. "The form of bookkeeping last year was disorganized, inaccurate, and inadequate," he commented. 
Hum mer has centralized all bookkeeping and cash control under the comptroller's office. He asserted, "Nothing can "be spent without John Hargrave or me knowing about it." 
This year the Student Union and Student Government will operate on a budget of $80,000, the same as last vear. The allotment of that money will be determined Sep­tember 28 at the Budget Hearings which are open to all who wish to attend. 
Thus far, 20 to 30 clubs have requested funds. The decisions 

ROD STEWART & FACES 




with the J. Geils Band 
IN CONCERT SATURDAY OCTOBER 4th at 7:30 pm at ACC 
was no longer permitted. The tightening· of the state laws crimped our style." 

Although hall resudents lamented the metamorpheses in social life effected by last year's relatively strict University policy on alcohol, Fr. John Mulcahy, director of student residence and rector of Flanner, said, "I think getting rid of section parties is good for getting out of the dorm. Students are more refreshed and relaxed by getting out." 
Hall Spirit Varies 
Yet Bob Ryan of Stanford 
concerning the allotment of funds will be made by the Board of Commissioners consisting of the Student Body President, Vice President, and Treasurer, the SLC representative chosen by the Hall Presidents' Council, and the three t•lccted SLC representatives. 


HIGH 
ADVENTURE 
STARTS AT 
2500 FEET 
v
CRAWFORDSVILLE PARACHUTE CENTER 
• 
First jump course • only 3 hours $40 

• 
World's laraesl and sales! parachule company . • Over 250,000 jumps • Our 171h year 

• 
Free brochure RR No. 7 Municipal Airport Crawfordsville, Indiana 47933 Phone: 317·362-8253 


remarked that a greater emphasis on off-campus activities has made it more difficult to get spirit within his hall. 
Brown also noticed that there was more "togetherness" in Holy Cross two years ago when large parties were frequent. 
In contrast, St. Edward's Hall Rector Fr. William Presley maintained that the spirit in St. Ed's is "about the same as in past years -excellent." . . . 
"There is a certain contmU1ty m a hall through the years," stated Fr. Thomas Tallarida, director of off-campus housing and rector of Zahm Hall. 
"Life in Zahm is friendly," he went on. "There is quite a bit of interaction." 
Students Friendly in Dorms 
Both Mulcahy and University Provost Fr. James Burtchaell 
----1 
agreed that the halls are friendly. 
"Students are more open now," Mulcahy said, while Burtchaell stated there is "good will" and a "broad spectrum of acquaintance" present in dorms. 
"More people are more con­cerned for others," Bill Fallon, Keenan Hall president, said. 
"Everyone knows each other more thank you think they would," claimed Denis Sullivan, president of Grace Hall. According to Sullivan, Grace, opened in 1969, is "finally coming of age." 
Dillon Hall's Elton Johnson noted that the dip in social life has not depressed the spirit of the hall. "The guys are the same," he added. 
"The spirit in Pangborn has increased this year," pointed out Mike Casey, hall president. "The kids are friendlier this year," he explained, "and the hall staff is 
II 

SEPTEMBER & 
OCTOBER 

SPECIAL 
now at the 

HOUSE OF TURQUOISE 

LIQlliD SILVER & TURQUOISE CHOKERS NORMALLY $19.95 ··NOW $10.00 (WITH Tl-IIS COUPON) 
MICHIANA'S LARGEST STOCK OF INDIAN 
.J EWEI.HY 
--CllSTOM SIL\'ERSMITHING --HEJ>AIRS TO INDIAN JEWI<=LRY --GIFT CERTIFICATES FOR THAT BIRTHDAY OH CIIHISTMAS GIFT --L·\\'AWAY 
-·MASTEH CHAHGE + + BANK AMERICARD 





THE HOUSE OF TURQUOISE 
31~5outhMo•n Mi~howoko 259·0751 
Open 1 0 a.m. to 6 p.m. Clo•ed Sunday 
..riaa••ly, f•lk• 
Guns Of Autumn



~~~d~~rver 
.Founded November 3, 1966 
art buchwald
Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief 

Tom Modglin Business Manager Tom Whelan Advertising Manager 
EDITORIAL BOAR_P AI Rutherford, Managing Editor; Jim Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor; Ken Girouard, News Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; Ken Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; Tom O'Neil, Features Editor; Chris Smith, Photo Editor 
Editori•ls: 281~1 Nrws: 28!!.;!1~-1~7;,;:15~...._ __..::11.::,:u•:;,;in:.:,r,:.:";.;:2::8:.::.,1·:.::..7•.:.::7:.::..1---------i 
Tuesday, September 23, 1975 
' 


P.O. Box Q 
unless they indicated otherwise .an apathy and this year -due to last automatic contribution of three ~-ear's failures -by cynicism. dollars was to be made to InPIRG However, before writ;'lg that this
Students 

in their name and tacked onto the eampaign --inferring the cam­tuition bill. paign in all three districts--has Both of these tactics are un­been noted for ''general apathy,"

Unite! 

derhanded methods of obtaining as you did in yesterday's editorial, contributions from students look around. Dear Editor: irrespective of end goal worth. A Did you see that guy standing in 
I want to congratulate Paul donation should be a conscious front of the South Dining Hall for Kruse for his recent letter printed positive choice. Everyone should four days or the guy that has been in the Observer. In this letter, Paul be allowed the choice to make a putting up posters in every dorm did us the great service of exposing donation instead of against making by himself? These guys want to the esoteric logical connections a donation. The group, whether it win. These guys have been putting 
between Saint Mary's President be InPIRG, Notre Dame, a student in their time so that the students 

John M. Duggan's participation in government has not right to have an opportunity to know the infamous Vassar yearbook students' funds without express what's happening.

scandal <OJ and his cliche-ridden, prior consent. Why would one use Perhaps you were referring tometaphor-deluged, do-nothing first the device of asking students to the student body, claiming that the two weeks of campus life at Saint 

decide against giving the funds? 
students at Notre Dame are
Mary's. 

Whoever concerned must be apathetic or cynical. This mayAfter Paul's daring and radical hoping to sucker students into have been true last year but holdattack on that archetypal bastion 
making the donation or they are
of capitalist-imperialist economic on 1 Why must you be so damn 
aware that sheer laziness will stop 
order, the Presidency of a small, determined to stick the same liberal arts women's college, no many students from reclaiming stigmas and labels on this year's one will ever again be able to miss students?
funds to which the group had no the straightforward causal con­
right from the start. Or they To you I say NO! To you I saynection between the guilt-induced realize that students may be too this year let's take a differentproduction of campus cliches and embarrassed to deny the con­
approach. Let's say that
the ugliness of censoring a bad­tribution fee what others have something can be done! We dotaste student yearbook. decided is a worthy cause. In any have a lot oftalentthat rots on thisKeep up the good work, Paul; case the practice is a form of campus. Let's say "Bring it out,and remember this thought: coercion. Students should have 
Students of the world , unite! You use it!" Let's try it!
been returned their money first 
have nothing to lose but your and then asked for a contribution. Instead of assuming that therePanasonics. 

Students should have signed if they will be a no-show at the polls today, wished to give to lnPIRG and not if lE:>t's yell out that a good voterBurce Larson 
they did not. turnout is the only way that we, the However, I, too, have found this students, will be taken seriously! an effective tactic. When my What self-respecting ad­

Donation 

roommate badgered me for the ministrator is going to take a 25 per five dollars I owed him, I politely cent student turnout seriously? If 
.i!Dformed him that I owed him it goes up to 50 per cent maybe we ·nothing. Since he had not given me can make him think. If it's 75 per 

Tactics 
Dear Editor: a written note to the contrary, I cent --you may think I'mIn Thursday's Observer article had made a five dollary donation to dreaming --but that dude is going"SMC students overcharged" it the Sunday church basket in his to fall back over in his chair, andwas noted that SMC students had name. say, "This year they meanbeen overcharged four dollars in Mike Rizzo business."

student government fees. If students do not fill out the proper It is not too hard to walk up aform asking for a refund by Sep­flight of stairs or down some stairs

tember 24, the money will 

to vote. You, my dear editor,

Vote!
automatically be transferred to the should have said, "This year let'srecreation fund for a new gym. 

show THEM that WE meanThis occurrence was none of my business!"
concern since I attend Notre Dear Editor: Dame, but it was reminiscent of ~he note which arrived with the Given that the SLC election has An SLC Candidate tuition bill informing students tha• in recent times been typified by <Name withheld by request) 
WASHINGTON-l'd never seen Remington, my gun-loving friend,so angry. 
"Did you see that show they did on CBS called the 'Guns of Autumn' about the hunting in the United States?" 
Yes, I did and it left a deep impression on me," I said. "The thought of those helpless hunters setting out to shoot ferocious deer and man-eating rabbits was almost too much to bear. I was on the side of the hunter. All he had to 
· protect himself with was a shotgun or a rifle while the animals had the protection of their speed, their claws, their teeth and their in­timate knowledge of the forest. You would think a country as great as ours would find ways of killing animals without stacking the odds against the poor guy with a gun." 
Remington said," The show made us look like damn fools. They showed all the worst aspects of hunting animals and none of the good things that go with the sport." 
"I noticed that," I agreed. "It seems to me CBS went out of its way to depict hO'!V cruel game shooting was. I wrote them a letter and told them I thought that if they show what a man can do to a bear, they should also show what a bear can do to a man. It would have been much more balanced if there were a few scenes showing a bear tearing a hunter limb from limb. I would have enjoyed that." 
"Well, we fixed them," Remington said. "We scared every advertiser from sponsoring the show. When you mess with the hunters in America, you're messing with the National Rifle Assn. And when they start putting pressure on advertisers, there isn't a company in the United States that will defy the gun lobby." 
"Thank God for the NRA," I said. "If it weren't for their members, you would now have buffalo herds grazing on Fifth Avenue." 
"What got me" said Remington, "was how biased the documentary was. They didn't show any of the pleasure people get out of hunting­the camaraderie and fellowship that the sport produces, the joy of walking in the woods early in the morning stalking an elk or sitting 
DOONESBURY 

in a blind waiting to blast away at a flock of ducks. That's what hun­ting is all about. All they em­phasized was the slaughter of the birds and animals. I don't call that balanced journalism.'' 
"It isn't," I assured Remington. "If I were doing such a show, I would film the human side of hunting I would show the love of man for his gun; a love greater than he has even for his own family. I would depict the sacrifices a hunter has to make to pursue this age-old sport where a man must pit his wits against the wiliest animals in the forest. would show the patience and perseverence that it takes to shoot just one pheasant in the back or one doe in the head. What people don't realize who watch such a show is it takes more than the desire to kill wildlife. It takes skill and brains and heart. That, to me, is where the show failed." 
"You know we're asking for equal time to answer the documentary," Remington said. "We're going tostate our side of the case in no uncertain terms." 
"I hope you've sold it to spon­sors," I said. 
"We will. There isn't a company in America that would refuse to advertise on a program giving the hunters' side of the story." 
"I wish I had a large company. I'd buy time on the show," I said. 
"You know something," Remington said, "I think the Commies are behind the whole thing." 
"But Tito hunts," I said. 

"Sure, the Commie big shots hunt, but they would love to see hunting stopped in the United States. If they could turn America against hunting game, it would be the first step in a Red takeover of the United States." 
"I guess you're right," I told Remington. "In a few years there wouldn't be a marksman left in America, and we'd all be left naked." 
Remington looked at me suspiciously. "I thought you were against hunting." 
"I am not," I replied. "As long as something gives people pleasure and you don't hurt anything, I say shoot." 
by Garry Trudeau 
TH& GR&6& I 5££. 
~ 
ANO Ola<. ld&U, I'MSORRY BUR£1!JJliT 10 PISAPPOINT "ROU!NG YOU, BUT '!tJIIR& 
II 
ldt1£1JM£ 70 STAY 
f'OR. A 7HUPPIJCKEI?. 
5ES5KJN IF YOUV 
t!KE I 
RIGHT. 
W.YNCJT TO MAKE 
ANY suo­O&NMOV85. I 

the observer 
Night Editor: Maggie Waltman Features Tom O'Neil Assistant Night Editor: Maureen Sports: Bob Brink Flynn Typists: Nell VIII, Camille Arrleh, Layout StaH: Ed Zagorski, Ken Terri Harlan, Karen Hlnks, Mary 
Tobin Day Editor: hh Eder, Mary Compugraphic: Morey Blinder Janca Night Controller: Dave Rust Copy Reader: Kathy Mills Ad Layout: Tom Whelan 
Bradford~i.ii""'ufjf 


---~--------­

I Tuesday, September 23, 1975 the observer 5 • I I 
-----~­

I I 
finding •the biggest bang' in dixie 
Driving along Interstate 24, the signs hit you at intervals of two miles. One says "stack up for the Fourth," while another advertises being the "biggest in Dixie." After twenty miles and ten signs, the temptation is too great and the exit that leads to "the store with the biggest bang" is taken. 
It's impossible to miss the low-slung one story building. Decorated in red, white and blue, the store looks as though it could be a firecracker. And well it might, for Ed's retail shop is one of the biggest firecracker distributors in Tennessee. 
"I'd say we have one of the biggest shops (of firecrackers) in Tennessee." Ed Powers, owner of the retail shop bearing his name, said, "Originally, I just had a gas station and a cheap little gift store. About ten years ago I tried selling firecrackers and they went like wildfire. Now, even though I still sell gasoline and a limited amount of gift store materials, firecrackers are responsible for over 90 percent of my overall business," he related. 
Firecrackers are indeed the biggest item in Power's store. Everywhere one looks there are firecrackers. Ranging from smoke bombs to cherry bombs to three­stage bottle rockets-four walls of each of the three rooms inside the building are filled from floor to ceiling with the explosives that Americans love. 
Americans Jove them so much that they go to great lengths to procure them. Firecrackers are illegal in most states, especially northern ones. The South, with its lenient gun laws, is more tolerant of them. Therefore, when northerners travel through the South, many stop to pickup a year's supply of " 'crackers," as Powers calls them. 
"I'd say other than the Fourth of July season, I make my best business right around now. With all the kids going down to Florida, a lot of them are bound to drop by and get a few 'craakers.' Heck, most of 'em are brining so much money down it's not going to hurt to spend ten or so dollars here," Powers explains. 

Powers is seemingly telling the truth if one looks around at this Easter Day crowd. Out of the fifty or so people in the store, over thirty are college age. Most are buying a considerable amount of fireworks. "I live in Minnesota and it's pretty hard to get a hold of firecrackers up there so I'm stocking up but good," Pat Fitzsimmons, a student at the University of Minnesota-Duluth said. Fitzsimmons bought over fifteen dollars worth of firecrackers. 
"If firecrackers are a riot to have a round the dorm or the house you're living in," Steve Waterman, a senior at Notre Dame explained. "Besides, I'm graduating this year and these will come in handy to help me celebrate," he added. 
Students are not the only ones buying a large amount of firecrackers. Mr. Jack Mendall of Cairo, Illinois, spent over twenty-nnine collars to pick up a year's supply for himself. He also spent another fifty-seven dollars picking up firecrackers for his family. He explained that he "had enjoyed using firecrackers as a kid." "I see nothing wrong with firecrackers if they're used safely. I watch over my kids when they use them and we've never had any ac­cidents," he added. Mendall did mention that he was glad firecrackers were illegal in Illinois. "If they were legal, anybody could buy them and it could lead to an accident. This way I have control over what's hap­
pening," he commented. 

"I used to be in the Navy during World 
War II, and I got hooked on shooting bottle 
rockets off during the Fourth. So whenever I come down south I pick up abou.t a hundred of the things," Jesse Andres of Detroit explained. 
However, bottle rockets don't seem to be doing the best business at the moment. That honor is reserved for firecrackers. All types are being bought. Cherry bombs, Black Cats, Stars and Stripes, Forever and Oriental time bombs seem to be best sellers according to Powers as he rings up yet another ten-dollar order. It is easy to see how a person can spend over ten dollars here. Firecrackers are going for roughly nine dollars a thousand. Many people are buying two packs: one for themselves and one to sell. 
Most of the center room is filled with firecrackers. Powers and his wife (and business companion) Jessica, man the cash registers underneath a sign that wishes the purchaser "a big bang!" In the middle of the room, there are two long aisles filled with the bargain of the week. In this case, they are old Black Cat firecrackers that are being sold for five dollars a thousand. "When 'craakers get old, they get less reliable so their price value diminishes," he explained. 
The side room to the right of Powers is filled with "package deals." These consist of a combination of explosives sold together. 
The packages range in price from anywhere between fifteen and fifty dollars. A typical one consists of a thousand firecrackers, two bottle rockets, a few cherry bombs, smoke bombs and a three­stage firework display rocket. "The 
package deals have not done well lately, but that's probably because of the recession. People want to buy firecrackers, but they won't spend as much as usual, so the package deals are not bought whereas the 
gregg bangs 
firecrackers still are," Powers explained. 
This might be true, but the firework 
displays have a large number of children 
milling around them shouting at their 
parents to buy them. Their parents usually 
take one look at the price tag and leave, but 
at least two have relented and bought them. 
One, Craig Stephens of Louisville, admitted 
that the package "thrills me as much as my 
kids." 

The other room contains the dif­ferent type of fireworks such as cherry bombs, smoke bombs, frazzlers and M-80 smoke bombs. Frazzlers are simply sticks that swirl into different colors when lighted and let off a strange hissing sound. Smoke bombs are simply that. Both cherry bombs and M-80's are smoke bombs, with different intensities. Cherry Bombs and M-80's are also stronger firecrackers, but a recent Tennessee ruling prohibits the sale of them in the state. In fact, a bill that is over­whelmingly favored to pass the Tennessee legislature this fall would prohibit the sale of any firework or cracker that must be lit off on the ground. This would rule out any explosive that does not detonate in the air. If this rule does pass, over half of the fireworks in Power's store would become illegal. Powers does not seem that con­cerned by the impending crackcown. "They made M-80's and 'Cherries illegal and the people still come. The industry keeps thinking of new fireworks to take the place of the ones declared illegal. Just as long as I can have my trusty firecracker, I'll still have my business," he ventured. 
So on an Easter Sunday when most people are chasing after Easter eggs, Ed Powers is selling exploding eggs to people in his store. Judging by the way people buy firecrackers on Easter, it appears every day could be the Fourth of July in this Tennessee firecracker shop. 
cello prelude to international women's year 
As striking a woman as she is a per­former, distinguished cellist Christine Walevska opened the 1975 International Women's Year Series of the Performing Arts with her concert September 18 at ()'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Miss Walevska's music, varying between soft and expressive, to very vibrant sounds, included works of Vivaldi, Brahms, [)pbussy, and Chopin. All of it was out­standing and easy to listen to, very smoothly performed. On stage she was a controlled figure of well-coordinated movements and strict concentration. 
Offstage, however, Christine Walevska is a warm, humorous person who laughs and talks freely about her music and the role of women in the arts, the theme of the per­forming Arts Series. She says she has felt no discrimination in her own career, and adds, "Being a woman in the arts is sometimes better, because she can use her natural sensitivity and creative in­terpretations to bring out amusing or im­portant ideas." One thing women per­formers experience, she laughs, is "con­ductors who make passes." 

Miss Walevska has toured the United States, Europe, Africa, South America, Australia, and Japan, and has performed 

Christine Wal~iSka <Photo by Paul Joyce) 


brigid rafferty 

r----------------------------------
Tht> 1!175 International Women's Year Series at St. Mary's College is part of tht> Pt'rforming Art Series, which will be featuring dancer Emily Frankt'l on Wt'dnesday night <photo below) as well as soprano Carole Farley Octobt'r 2 and Carol Rosenberger, pianist, on November 13. The st•ries is meant to highlight "the achievements of women In the arts." 


with many top symphonies. She is also the first American to win the Premier Prix from the Paris Conservatoire. Her in­credible success is astonishing to many in the music world for three reasons-she is a woman, she is an American, and she is young. She does not reveal her age, but hints that it is "past the quarter century mark'" 
One benefit of Miss Walevska 's ap­pearance here was the workshop she held for members of the Music Department. "She was very friendly and open," said one music major. "She said the important thing was to love music, and to think about giving and sharing it, rather than becoming famous." 
Each of the three remaining artists scheduled to perform in the series will also present a workshop for music major during their stay. "It's a valuable experience to be able to talk to an artist," explained Mary Gerber, Director of Programming at St. Mary's, noting that the Music Department's response to Walevska's forum was very good. 
"Because this is International Women's Year, and because of the fact that we are a women's college, we included this series to highlight the achievements of women in the arts," said Gerber. 
Emily Frankel, a famous interpretative dancer, will be the next performer in the series, appearing September 24, followed by Carole Farley, singer, October 2, and Carol Rosenberger, pianist, November 13. All performances will be at O'Laughlin. 
Because of its uniqueness, the In­ternational Woman's Year Series is sup ported, in part, by the National Endowment for the Arts, and the Indiana Arts Com mission. 

------~­
Tuesday', 'September 23, 197S
the obs·erver
6 




Business lecture series to open 
r. 
' by Maureen O'Brien humanistic work and work business organization and "Psychological and Mental Health spectives."organizations," he said. management at Notre Dame. Dr. ConsidP.rations."
Staff Reporter 
Houck will speak about "Work The lecture schedule, however,
In a report published by the The final scheduled lecturer will The College of Business A~­Alienation -An Historical Per­is not final. The college hopes to
business college the need for the be Ted Mills, director of Nationarministration of Notre Dame 1s lecture series was cited: "Nearly spective" on Oct. 29. Quality Work Center in obtain Sen. Edward M. Kennedypresenting a lecture se~ie~ entitle~ <D-Mass. l as a lecturer.
sixty percent of the adult On Nov. 14, Dr. Stani!'lov Kasl of Washington, D.C. Mills' disser­"The Design of Humamstlc Work population <persons 16 years of age the School of Medicine at Yale tation will deal with " Current""during the 1975-76 academic year. 
or older) spend a minimum of 35-4C University will present Blue and White Collar Per-
SIR RICHARD'S 
The series, financ~d by a grant · per cent of their waking hours in from the Sperry and Hutchinson work or work-related activity. No 

HAIR1STYLING 
Foundation, will begin Thursday, other single activity consumes ND music dept. presents concert
Sept. 25, at 3:30p.m. in the librar) directly as large a portion of one's 

29 DIXIEWA~{
auditorium. time or has as pervasive an impact Notre Dame's Music Depart­and lecture appearances in allThe purpose of thE upon other aspects of one's life." 

SOUTH

ment will present a voice and areas of the world.
program ,according to Dr. William "Thus, it is only natural ·and violin concert, "The Best of Two One European critic recently 

U.S. 31 NORTH
J. Heisler, co-director of the series necessary that any concern for the Musical Worlds," at 8:15 pm acclaimed her as "the possessor ofand professor in the Management quality of life has as a major Wednesday in the Memorial the most flawless vocal-technical 

SUITE B 

Department, is "to present a series component a concern for the Library Auditorium. The concert instrument in the world of operaof monthly lectures which will quajity of work-life." 
today." ·will feature Helen-Kay Eberley, 

UNISEX

bring to the attention of a broad Dr. John Julian Ryan, a soprano, and Vincent P. A professor of violin at Nor­spectrum of students, faculty, 
(Across from

professor of English at St. An­Skowronski. violin, and -will be thwestern University and the managers and general public of selm's College, Manchester, N.H., University of Wyoming, 
Randall's Inn)
open to the public without charge. 

the Michiana area the issue of will open the lecture sequence. Dr. Skowronski represented the United work-life quality in America. 
Ryan will be concerned with "The I<:berley has received the Milton states in the recent Tchaikovsky 

ICHCODDEN
"The lecture series, through ani Design of Humanistic Work: Cross Award for operatic ex-competition in Moscow. interdisciplinarian approach, win Philosophical-Cultural Con· 
277-0734

cellence as a finalist in the His career has been highlightedprovide a fon.'ll •for an siderations." 
CLOSED

Metropolitan Opera National by appearances in the majorexamination of the range of social Following Dr. Ryan is Dr. John Auditions at Lincoln Center. She performance halls of Europe and 
MONDAYS

alternatives available in the design W. Houck, co-director of the lec­has made concert, opera, oratorio the llnited States.
I-.­and structuring of more 'ure series and a professor o 
I l I I I 
I 
l l l 
! 
I 

The uncompromising ones. 



The calculations you face require no less. 
Today, even so-called "non-technical" courses It's display is fully formatted, so you can choose Both the HP-21 and HP-25 are almost 
(psych, soc, bus ad, to name 3) require a vari­between fixed decimal and scientific notation. certainly on display at your bookstore_ If not, ety of technical calculations-complicated cal­Gur HP-25 does all that-and much, much call us, toll-free, at 800-538-7922 (in Calif. culations that become a whole lot easier when more. It's programmable, which means it can 800-662-9862) for the name of an HP dealer you have a powerful pocket calculator. solve automatically the countless repetitive near you. 
Not surprisingly, there are quite a few such problems every science and engineering student calculators around, but ours stand apart, and faces_ ahead. We started it all when we introduced the With an HP-25, you enter the keystrokes 


HEWLETT~ PACKARD 
world's first scientific pocket -calculator back in necessary to solve the pmblem only once. 1972, and we've shown the way ever since. Thereafter, you just enter the variables and Sales and service from 172 offices in 65 countries. Dept. 6588, 19310 Pruneridge Avenue, Cupertino, CA 95014
The calculators you see here are our newest, press the Run/Stop key for an almost instant the first of our second generation. Both offer you answer accurate to 10 digits. technology you probably won't find in compet­Before you invest in a lesser machine, by all itive calculators for soine time to come, if ever. means do two things: ask your instructors 
Our HP-21 performs all arithmetic, log and about the calculations their courses require; and 
6U/28 

trig calculations, including rectangular/polar see for yourself how effortlessly our calculators 
*Suggested retail price, excluding applicable state and local taxes­conversions and common antilog evaluations_ handle them. Continental U.S., Alasb & lii!laii. 



---~----­

. Juesday,, .Septemb!r:·1~· 1975 ., the observer 
Candidates prepare lor SMC elections 
WANTED Nl'l'd 3 NW and 2 MSU tickpts. Call Alice 549~. NPl'd 2 GA Northwestern tickets. Call Paul 3018.  Need 2 GA MSU Northwestern fix.  CLASSIFIED ADS fix and 1 GA Part time help wanted. Evenings. Call Bob 1068. Fisherman's Wart, Eagle Lake (12 miles>. Call (616) 699-7402.  NOTICES  '  Furnished apartment. 503 W. Jefferson. Duplex 3 rooms floor. Gas Heat. Furnished. 289-6307, 234­0596.  
Need as many G.&A. M.S.U. fix as posslbll'. sss. 289-9164.  Need one N.U. and 2 M.S.U. Call Mary 1285.  fix.  Need two Northwestern and-or two So. Cal. fix. Call Murph 287-0742.  ND-SMC Council for the Retarded. Dance Wed. nite 7:30-10:00 p.m. Questions call Tom 287-6673 or  LOST & FOUND  
Need 2 fix·s ro Southern Ca Iif. or Georgia Tech. Call Ron 3374. NPeded: 1 student or G. ~­ticket to the u.s.c. game. Please call Ellen at 277-0794. DESPERATELY NEED USC  Help. 2 MSU fix's and 2 USC fix's. John 1586. Need GA Navy Tix's and GA Pitt fix's. Call 1652. Need 4 GA Northwestern fix's. Call Pat· 277-1609.  Needed: 4 tickets to Pittsburgh gaml'. Call 4300. Need 2 fix's any home game. Phone Mary Louise 7308.  Kathy 288-4315. Accurate fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. Quick Loans! Morrissey Loan Fund. Up to 5150. 30 days 1 percent interest. Basement of LaFortune. M-F 11:15-12:15.  Lost: Gold Bulova-Caravelle watch with football inscribed on the face, in the South Dining Hall. If found, call John 1109. Lost: Blue windbreaker with set of keys in pocket. Call Kevin 234­8083.  
tickets. Will pay well. Call 7937, please. Wanted 2 GA tickets tor Nor­thwestern game. Call Chris 283­1788.  Need 2 fix's for Pitt game.. Call Ralph 8326. Wanted: Two tickets to Mich. State game. Call Tom at 288-8417.  FOR SALE Portable refrigerator.. 2 cu. ft. Like new. Includes stand. $75.00. J. Powell (8-5 p.m.) 7784; 16-10 p.m.) 291-2972.  Typing · 35 cents per page. Call Dan · 272-5549. FrPe · darling kittens to a good  Found: One little white kitten. Please hurry and claim because housemate hates it. Chester . 288­4217.  
wanted: Two GA tickets for Northwestern game-. 2 GA Southern Cal tlxs. Call Mary 6680. I will die unless I get 2 Mich. State tlx. Please call me now at 287-0076. DESPERATE. 'oesperately nee~ 2 C.1~ fix's to So. Cal. game. Will pay s. Call Marc 1789. Sleep-in night clerk. Part-time. Capitol Motel. 272-6262.  3 students looking for 4th room­mate at Campus View. 271-2701. Need 1-4 Student or GA fix for any home game.. Will pay good price. Help! Call Jane 5135. Need 6 tickets to Chicago concert. Call 284-3226 weekdays, 288-9890 after 5. Need So. Cal. tix (student or GA'sl and 2 GA tickets tor Northwestern. Call Charlie 289-8948. Desperately need tickets ·to any home game. Don 3755.  1971 Triumph TR-6. Steel belted. RradiaJ. tires. Call 272-2844 after 5 p.m. ACS lab aprons on sale in 126 Nieuwland and freshman Jabs only $3. Guitar: In good condition. Call Kim 4677. Compact stereo speakers, head­phones. 550. Call 7875. Stereo console (contemporary model). AM-FM radio. In good condition. $135.00 or best offer. Call 272-5645 after 3:00.  home. 6 wks. old. Call 233-8579 after 5 p.m. Men's Shirts, women's clothing, liquid silver, turquoise, plants, leather goods -Jennifers. 119 W. Colfax. 11 :00 -5:30 Mon.-Sat. FOR RENT Clean comfortable bedroom, study room, and bath.. S30 per month.. Mrs. Spencer 233-4670. Room for rent. $50 a month. Share kitchen and bath with one other student. Call 232-9311 or 289-9533.  PERSONALS Gibb, Thanks. Sui. Kathleen, Beware! The great Trinidadian secret Is about to become public. Watch for the new~ release to follow. Uncle Charlie. Interested in becoming a Catholic? Discussion group being formed. Call Campus Ministry (6536) or drop in the offece (103 Lib.).  

by Mary Egan Staff Reporter 
SMC Elections Commissioner Kathy Carrigan announced the candidates for Wednesday's Student Assembly Representative elections for McCandless and Regina Halls. 
Juniors Maureen Breen, Mary Lanois and Karen Nagel are !'andidates for the three McCan­clless assembly positions. Sophomores Sue Jackson, Margee Montgomery and Louise Purcell 
Planned for October 3 
Ruling allows Ar.mory dance 
In .Jut> (;ill Sla·rf llt'JIOI'It•r 
Tlu• NotrP llunw Social Com­lllls~ion will sponsor an Armory Ihllll'e on Oct. :!, Co-Social Com­missioner charles Moran all­nolllll'Pd yt•stt•rday. 
TIH• Friday riight dance will be ht>ld at the Armory in South Bt'IHI. A rol'k hand from Chicago wlllt•ntPrtain. and keg beer will be Sl'l'\'t•d. 
Tlw (•vent will b£' open to all Notre l>anw and St. Mary's students. 
Tlw last 'armorv dance was held two years ago. 'i'ht• function was tt•rrninatl'd with the Indiana Suprern£' Court ruling outlining the llnivl'rsity's responsibility n•gardurg thP ust• of a1conol. With tht• passing of the Faccenda bill, thl' dance can be held again. 
1\loran commented. "The em­
phasis of the old armory parties 
was that of a large-scale drinkin~ 
TONIGHT!!! 
Meeting for all the freshmen who wish to ioin the Student Managers Organization 
ACC AUDITORIUVl 
7:00 P.M. 
are the candidates for the Regina assembly positions. 
Voting for the assembly representatives will be in the LeMans lobby. The candidates' platforms are posted in the dining hall. 
According to her platform, Breen wants to "become more active in hall life. My main ob­jective is to bee everyone become more involved." 
Lanois is "quite willing" to devote her time to the McCandless residents. She intends to "put 
!'nntest The l.'vent this vear is primaril~· a dance. and there will ht· ht'l'l' as part of the refresh­llll'nt s ... 
r\dm iss ion is Ihree doll· a rs per pl•rson, ineluding transportation. Bust•s will be leaving the Notre I>a me and St. Mary's circles every t5 minutes. Notre Dame and St. 1\lary's II>'s along with ticket, will ht' I'Pquin•d. 
T1ckets will hl• on sale at the Stll(it-nt llnion Ti(:ket Office, at the North and South dining halls 'during diruwr and at llall Lobbies at Sl MarY's between ti:30 and 7:30 Pach nigh't. starting next week. A limited number of tickets will lw sold. said Moran. 
"We an· Sl'l ting a limit ot 1100 
·because a beer bash can be really nowdl'd. but in a dance, you have to have space to move around. 
Moran  ended  with  a  note  of  
l'a ut ion  ·regarding  student's  
behavior HI the danc•e.  "Due to the  

forth an earnest effort." Nagel feels the assembly is a 
constructive way to "get results." She said she has "the time and the enthusiasm to make it work." 
Jackson states she not only knows who the Regina residents are, but "how they feel about what's going on." 
Montgomery also feels she knows these residents and their feelings. She "wants to work for them." 
Purcell is "most anxious" to 
Faecenda l~ill. the University is in no way responsible for the student's actions," he stated. "Ed B~Tnl'. studt•nt body president. is assuming rl'sponsible for the ar­mory dance. and the subsequent actions of those involved," Moran added. "We cannot impress upon the students strongly enough the need for responsibiltiy in their aactions at the Armory dance." 
HAWAIIAN NIGHT nJESDAY $3.45 
Boar's Head brings the Islands to you. At less than Island prices! Delicious Hawaiian chicken dinner is only $3.45 per person plus tax. lncfuG~~ Tropical fruit salad, wild rice>. and sweet and sour sa~~e. "'lso: Boar's Head Salad Bar, •t I,.-ead, ice cream or sherbet, and ~offae, tea, or milk. All for only 53.45 We're doing the whole pl;.:;t• e Hawaiian on Tuesday Aloha. 
BOAR'S H~AD® 
RESTAURANT-ei~ 
·52885 U.S. 31 North in South Bend 
represent Regina since she "believes in St. Mary's College." She wishes to "play an active role in its growth." 
Purcell cited her understanding of the "people who live and work in Regina and the importance of the dorm and its residents in relation to the remainder of the student body." 
All three Regina candidates have lived in the dorm since last year. 
Carrigan feels the scarcity of candidates "shows that Student Assembly has not been a very active bo~y in the last year." 


:c1nema 7Ei : 
: pr~;~eflts : 
: •u""s. S. wed. : : r.cot. :!3 ' 24 : 
: t.n'J. aud. : 
!8 lk 1 0 p.m. : : $1 : 
····························~···········~·····-! 
The elections commission~r said, "Students are unaware of the Student Assembly and its power as the vital arm of student govern­ment in the school." Regina is mainly a freshmen dorm and therefore does not have as many upperclassmen who can qualify for the election, Carrigan added. 
Carrigan feels all six candidates will be elected in Wednesday's election. 
Carrigan also stated that she will accept platforms for freshmen class officers and assembly representatives October 6-10. These elections will be held on October 15. 

8 the observer Tuesday, September 23, 1975 
Bauer no longer receiving, but still receiving praise 
Ed Bauer was one jump away from freedom during the first pre­season scrimmage of the 1973 season. All the junior tight end ,had ~o do was hurdle a fallen body to get past the last defender bet­ween him and the goalline. 
He never made it. "When I took that step, I had all th weight on my right leg," the Ci1.cinnati native recalled. "Then the halfback hit my knee with his helmet and it snapped." The tackle ended Bauer's season. There was, of course, an operation to repair the ligaments and still another to stop an in­fection in the knee. Bauer knew his career as a receiver at Notre Dame was finished, but 1 he also wondered if his playing days were numbered. "I seriously doubted whether I would ever play at Notre Dame after the injury," he continued. "I had the same doubts as a fresh­man, but deep down, I really wanted to know if I could play here. I guess that's why I took my replacement year," he added. Last season certainly helped alleviate any uncertainties. 
"When I started the season," he reflected, "I was dead set ag&inst another one. But during the course of the year, that attitude changed." 
What made the difference was an unfortunate injury to starting tackle Steve Neece during the Rice game. Bauer, who was being used as a reserve guard and tackle, finally got that chance to play. 
"It didn't really hit me that I was playing until we tied late in the game," he continued, "but then I knew we had to get moving." 
And move the Irish did. Tom Clements directed the 'Irish on an 80-yard, 20-drive which consumed 
9:45 of the clock before fullback Wayne Bullock dove over from two yards out with only 3:08 remaining in the game. Bauer also got his chance to start the Army, Miami, and Navy games before Neece returned late in the season. 
"It was really a good ex­perience," he said. "I got to taste something I really liked, and I saw the opportunity to play another season." 
And that opportunity grew. His teammates wouldn't let Bauer's 
Steve Euvino ::::::;:;::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:::::::;:::::::::::::::::::. 

Notre Dame Managers_ 
·Freshmen entering Notre Dame are special people. One look at their high school records will reveal that some of them were valedictorians, some class officers, others the editors of school newspapers and year­books, or the captain of a varsity sport. When they come to Notre Dame, they want to build on and add to their talents. 
While only a small part of their education takes place in the classroom, they want to explore the larger part of their education, the ex­tracurricular activities at Notre Dame. They see four years at Notre Dame as more than just a desk and a notebook. Notre Dame is blessed with a wide range of activities for all different interests. Student managing is one of these activities. 
Many people have preconceived notions about managers-those short, weak waterboys wholug_oummiesduring practicewith a football on them at all times. As a student manager at Notre Dame, you will be working alongside some of the most headlined people in the collegiate sports world today. Here is an opporhmity to add to one of the most respected sports traditions in America. 
As freshmen, you will get a chance to work with another newcomer to 
Notre Dame-Dan Devine. You can help Coach Devine and his staff to a 
successful first season, as you both learn about Notre Dame. It is an 
adventure that might just interest you. 
Managers work not only with the pl~yers and coaching staff, but also 
with the business directors of athletics at Notre Dame, College sports 
today is big business, and student managing has had to adjust to meet the 
increasing demands and pressures that go withtheplanning and expense 
of any athletic event. It is an education in itself just to see the efficiency 
of a modern athletic department in action, and even more to be part of 
that department. 
To most, the image of manager's reponsibility is one limited to football 
only. However, the Notre Dame Student Managers Organization works 
with all varsity sports, and these include basketball, hockey, wrestling, 
fencing, tennis, swimming, track, cross-country, and baseball. Working 
these different sports provides a change of pace for those managers who 
may prefer to to work some other sport, such as basketball or hockey. As 
a senior, you become the head manager of one of these different sports, 
and are personally responsible for all its equipment. 
Managing is hard work, and can often interfere with survival in the 
classroom, forcing many managers to quit early in the year. Studies 
come first, because you are going to Notre Dame for a degree, not for 
managing. However, the long hours are just another part of the 
manager's education, a Jesson1in self-discipline. Class, studying, and 
managing must be scheduled and arranged so as to fit into one day. 
The managers' creed is very simple: "We expect 100 per cent per­
formance from 100 per cent of our managers 100 per cent of the time." 
Hustle -that is what managing is all about. Managers have to be on 
their toes all the· time, to be on fhe look-out for anything, whether it be a 
missing uniform or a missing player. 
Right now we are in the midst of a recruiting drive for freshmen 
managers. Thework is there, but so are the rewards. For your services 
as a freshman you will receive a numeral sweater. Sophomores receive 
free basketball tickets and full assistance forbooks, not to mention being 
on the field for every home football game. During your junior year you 
will receive a partial grant-in-aid, a Notre Dame blazer, the official 
monogram jacket and monogram, free tickets, and free books. As a 
junior, you travel with the football team on one away trip. Senior year, 
as head manager of a varsity sport, you will receive a grant-in-aid 
ranging between sixty-five and one hundred per cent of your tuition, 
along with the free books and tickets. Upon graduation, you will be in­
ducted into the National Monogram Club. 
However, the rewards which will remain with you forever are the memories of the experiences you shared with the players, the coaches, and your fellow mamagers-the laughter and the tears, the victories and the defeats-which you will share together. Former Assistant Football Coach Tom Pagna remarked to several managers after the superlative victory over Southern Cal two years ago, "You managers were as much a part of this victory as any player." 
Some day you may be able to tell the folks back !lome1 thatyouwerepn 
the sidelines with the team at the Orange Bowl, or that you werl! right 
behind Coach Phelps when Notre Dame beat UCLA. Perhaps that sounds 
childish, out-<lf-date, but if you think about it, there are lots of.people jn 
this world who would give anything to be in your shoes when they see you 
on that football field. 
Many people would like to be ablt' to say they went to Notre Dame. 
Well, yot:, as freshmen, can saythat,~nd through student managing, you 
can add a little frosting to that cake you will remember some day as the 
Golden Dome. 
comeback go unrewarded. When it came time to pick this year's captains, they selected Bauer and defensive end <now linebacker) Jim Stock. 
"It really caught me off guard," Bauer continued. "When it came time to vote. I thought of all the qualified guys who deserved it. I didn't think I had a chance." 
But he's made the most of it. 
"Ed had a rough time coming off the injury," offensive line coach Brian Boulac reflected, "but he played extremely well this spring. I think the captaincy has helped his overall performance. He's always working at the highest level possible. . 
"He's a big man," Boulac continued. "and while he has lost some speed, his initial step is still quick. He is a better one-<ln-<lne blocker now, and his pass blocking is improving all the time." 
Bauer, too, has seen the im­
provement. 
"Before the injury," he recalled, 
"I was used as a tackle for ex­
perience. I didn't get a thrill out of 
blocking, but they put me there to 
give me more confidence as a 
blocker." 
po·;r:n~. b6~~~~!lya~6:~: a~e ~~rr:~ 
passes and glamour at tackle than 
at tight end. But tackle is not all 
one-<ln-<lne blocking. You must 
know the overall concept of both 
the offense and defense. You must 
anticipate things. You might not 
block a safety all the time, but the 
one time you do could be the dif­
ference in a long gainer." 
Bauer also realizes there are 
more aspects to being a captain 
than just leading. 
"Coach Devine fills us in," he 
said. "It's not that we have 
anything more to say, but he 
makes us feel at ease and im­
portant. After practice he always 
asks, 'Any questions, Ed? Jim?' 
He wants us to have respon­
sibilities. 
"He wants to know what the 
team is thinking about. Basically 
we have to be representatives 
between the players and him. 
Irish JV's down Spartans 21-11 
Defense is the name of the game 
for Notre Dame thus far in 1975. 
The JV picked up where the 
varsity left off allowing Michigan 
State only 83 yards in total offense 
as they won the season opener at·
East Lansing 21_11. The Spartans 
f. t d . 
managed onIy four 1rs owns m
th t t t b It 
e eon es • ~0 Y pena y. . 


penalties assessed against the 1 -------------.
Irish the Spartans were able to score a. secon? period field goal 1 PEACH TREE 1 
W1th the a1d of 105 yards m ----­
and.a th1rd penod touchdown. The Sp~rtans also were awarded two I pomts when ND's Jay Palazola 
was called for grounding a pass in I his own end zone. On Offense the Irish picked up I 
;8i~Ja;~~ m~~~i~~.it ~~a~te ~~~d~~ I 
and Tom Domin all finishing with.J totals in the 70's. Parise scored twice on one runs while I 
One reason for the increased proficiency of the running game has been the play of Co-captain Ed Bauer at offensive tackle. 
We're keeping the channels open. head coach Dan Devine said, "is 
That's the most important his maturity, his quiet form of 
responsibility of the captains. leadership. He leads by example." 
"It's almost impossible for one "I like him because he's in-
guy to lead. There have to be 11 telligent, sincere and a good 
guys leading both offensively and football player," Devine con­
defensively. One guy can't tinued. "But most of all, I like him 
motivate the operation. Each because he's mine." 
player must motivate himself." And he's playing for Notre 
"What impresses me about Ed," Dame.
ND 
women1s field hockey 

team 


beats N. Illinois 
by Eileen O'Grady Notre Dame's Women's Field Hockey team won their first match Saturday against Northern Illinois University,. Opening both their season and their status as an organized club sport of the University, the varsity team swept the game with a 1-0 victory. Co-captain Maureen Maloney scored the only goal mid-way
through the first half. Maloney was very impressed with their first showing. "We played a basically
good defensive game. Fullback 
Mary DeCosta and goalie Mary
Hummes saved the game. 
Hummes made an excellent stick 
save and DeCosta continually kept 
the ball out of the circle, preven­
ting the other team from scoring.
Th h 1 d h 
. e mate . was p a~e on t e astroturf wh1ch made 1t a fast and
·t· " M 1 'd
excl mg game, a oney sal · 
Coach Astrid Hotvedt was also 
proud of the team's victory. "Our success is a direct result of the diligent execution of the fun­darrwntals in addition to an­ticipating and intercepting Nor­thern's attack. It was a great day for history in the making of women's sports at Notre Dame," she said. 
Ski team to meet 
on Wednesday 
There will be a general meeting for all those interested in racing for theN .D. ski team during '75-'76 season at 8:00pm on Wednesday, September 24, in room 1-c of 
1 s d c
L

,ar'ortune tu ent enter. Anvone who cannot attend 
· 

please contact Ann Hawkins or 
<;ordon Wilson. 

yard Domin tallied on a five-yard I ALL YOU CAN EAT WITH THIS COUPON $.05 I sweep. . $270 FOR FIRST BEER ( WITH 
Coach Greg Blache's JV's open 1 DINNER) 
up their horne season on Sunday • October 5 with Northwestern. -----------------­
A MEETING FOR ALL THOSE INTERESTED IN PRODUCING 

SCHOLASTIC 
COURSE EVALUATION BOOKLET will be held on 
WEDNESDAyI SEPTEMBER 24, 6:30 PM SCHOLASTIC OFFICE 
I 
3RD FLOOR LA FORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
• DINING ROOM • I
R •r-1 .. ,
ANDALL ~ INN 1 W E D N E 5 D A Y N I G H T 5 P E C I A l I 

FRIED C H I C K E N I
I 
MASHED POTATOES-SALAD-HOT BISCUITS 
I 







