
,..----------------------­
server 

15, lt7S 

SMC presents bill 


Opening mass celebrates first American-born saint 
by Robert Jacques Staff Reporter 

Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, President of the University of Notre Dame, formally opened the school year yesterday with a Mass, celebrating the canonization of America's first native-born saint, in Sacred Heart Church. 
In a brief welcoming speech Hesburgh extended his blessing to the more than 250 faculty members and the students and public present. He added his wish that everyone in the Notre Dame community would "grow both in wisdom and age"during the year. 
Fr. James T. Burtchaell, the Univer­sity's provost, presented the sermon which reflected upon the life of Elizabeth Bayley Seton who was canonized in Rome Sunday. Born in 4774, Mother Seton founded the Sisters of Charity, the first community of women in the history of the Church to give service to people in need rather than provide seclusion for its members. From this order founded in 1809, six congragations · have descended, some of whose members are Notre Dame students and faculty members. 
Burtchaell stated, "It is appropriate at a time when women have become abruptly more conscious of their rightful equality in society that the Holy See choose to honor a religious foundress." He noted that Mother Seton's canonization "rhay give evidence of an affirmative action plan for the Church's calendar of saints." 
Burtchaell acknowledged that for cen­turies "lay women were secluded from both the challenges and recognition of public 

Racing boat christened in Sacred B 
by Maureen Flynn Senior Staff Reporter 

Passers-by gaped while the men carried a 
into the church. But there was no lel·ement of the circus in the christening of 
A. Buccini" Saturday in Sacred . The 65-foot racing craft le)tte11ded almost the full length of the center on the sides by members of Dame Rowing Club, its alumni , Bussini family. James T. Burtchaell, university 
tnr.r\vn,""t offered mass and blessed the , which was then carried to St. Mary's and launched. is fitting that we offer this votive " Burtchaell stated, "in honor of what 
rer1re1~ents " 

of rowing requires the com-m~>•ra••rof nine persons into one body," -••rt<•ho,ol said. "We bless this vessel in men and women will learn to enjoy 
strive together." 

provost noted that tne craft was a gift, of "collaboration, not only Ol) the but off it. 'Most of those who worked us this shell will never row in it," he 
most importantly," Burtchaell r.onUJ1Ue<ll, "this vessel is dedicated to the 
special funda" Fr. Burtchaell blesses the '.'Steven A. Buccinl.". (Photo by Tom\lose). 



Sept. 21, 1972. He was unable to row his senior year because of an injury suffered the previous season. 
"Nevertheless," Burtchaell said, "he became an even more energetic member of the Rowing. Club. He embodied many of the things we all wish to be an4 do." 
At the time of Buccini's death, his former teammates and his parents, in conjunction life." Since then, the opportunities for service have increased for women with "one deplorable exception: the untimely and obstinate refusal of most Christian churches to ordain qualified women to their leader­ship and fullest ministry." 
Turning tow~rds the family, Burtchaell envisioned that "patterns of family previously unfamiliar to us are going to be designed." He stated that whereas in the past a man's theatre of activity was abroad, the woman's was at home. 
"Now there is no way that she can venture out of the home without him coming bac\t home. The trade-off for the liberation cJf women must come from the domesticatiGn of men," explained Burtchaell. "Women's liberation may very well entail more of a transformation for husbands than wives." 
Burtchaell viewed the change as an im­provement for both men and women. For the women who "have grieved over their withered opportunities to be artists or political officials or professors or physicians or bankers" and have suffered the feeling of being less human, ~e sees a chance for them to be both professional and mot~.ers. 
~or the ~en of .whom many have ~ad ~hetr h';lmamty dramed by a total absorption m thetr work and have been absentee
fathers," Burtchaell envisions a liberation from their frustration. 
The new marriage compact Burtchaell 
' 
concluded, will be one in which "husbands 
and wives will mutually relish and assume the work of the marketplace and the shelter of the home. For both it will be more trying than before, but it will also be more liberating." 

''They're l:m unusual bunch," said student's father, Andrew Buccini. boys came to the fu..al in Ric::hmtonll (Virginia), and they 
the Year as a memorial to Steven." 
wanted to help more on the material 

Panty raid costs $425 
by Shawn Scannell Staff Reporter 
James Roemer, dean of students, released Friday a special bulletin dealing with the panty raid that occured early Thursday. It reads as follows: 
Last Wednesday a large group of Notre Dame students visited St. Mary's campus late at night and the occasion was referred to by most as a "panty raid." Most of the students were observers. However, there were forty or fifty students who crawled up 
the sides of residence buildings. Some of thosewho crawled up buildings attempted to get into rooms. Windows were broken One St. Mary's resident assistant was pusheo across the room onto a bed. St. Mary's has estimated the damage at approximately 
$425. 

The physical act of crawling on a building is "trespass". Brea!Png a window or causing otherphysicaldamage is "malicious trespass." Forceable entry into a building can be "brealring and entering." All three of these are criminal violations of the law of the State of Indiana. 
I personally observed many of these acts. 
Discussions are now taking place between 
certain student trespassers and the dean of 
students in regard to their actions. 
In the future the dean of students and 
other officials of this University will be 
present when such "raids" occur. Pictures 
will be taken and evidence will be collected 
to pursue appropriate action when 
violations as described above do happen. H 
For rule violation 
Art Best deDied re-entry 
by Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief 
Art Best, former Notre Dame starting halfback, has. been denied permission to ·return to Notre Dame. Richard Conklin, director of Information S · "d Ia t ni ht "Best has been
er~ICes, sat . . s g • de~ted . permtsston . to .re-enroll .at ~e umverstty for a viOlation of untverstty
I " 
rues. . 

Conklin refused to comment on the specific violation. . 
The South Bend Tn~une rep?r~ed Saturday that Best was demed re-admtsston to the university because of an alleged such violations are serious, consideration will be given to referral to appropriate local authorities. 
St. Mary's has officially notUied the University that they intend to present claims for property damage in the future to the University of Notre Dame. More serious is the possibility that personal injuries will occur as a result of the mob hysteria that can be a part of these immature demon­strations. Students have a personal and legal responsibility that flows from any damage or \Personal injury they cause. 
In an article in last Friday's Observer, the ~nty raid was referred to as "good." This connotation is one that Roemer feels is deceptive: "I got a very different im­pression at a meeting Friday at St. Mary's" 
Dr. Cannon, St. Mary's vice president of Student Affairs, Stevie Wernig, assistant vice-president of Student Affairs, and An­thony Kovatch, director of security invited Bro. Just Paczesny from Notre Dame, vice­president of Student Affairs, Dean Roemer, and Arthur Pears, director of Security to meet with tllem. Roemer said it was here that Notre Dame was formally billed for $425 damage caused during the raid. 
Roemer said, "I've issued the bulJetin to warn the Notre Dame students that a panty raid can run into some serio~ problems. I don't want N.D. students thinlUng they can just go and cause damage in what they might consider a 'good-fun prank.' We now have a claim for $425 to deal with." 
"l want to point out the legal problems with trespassing and the like so if anything really serious comes up, no-one can say the dean of students didn't warn the student body about it," he continued. 
marijuana ·incident last Ff!bruary. The Tribune cited a police report which alleg;edthat Best gave a bag of suspected marijuana to at least one go-between and allegedly received payment for the substance. 
The Tribune reported that Best has denied the allegations. No formal criminal charges have been brought against Best. 
Best. was denied re-admission after a University hearing board heard his case Sept. 2. James Roemer, dean of students, refused to comment on the facts of the case, but termed the proceeding "a full-blown hearing in accordance with the student manual." 
Under judicial procedure specified by University rules and regulations, Best appealed the decision of the hearing board to University President Fr. Hesburgh. After meeting last Friday with Best, Hesburgh upheld the decision of the hearing board. 
Roemer explained that the action in this case took place only after the university was informed of the facts during "the latter part of July". 
Best could not be reached for comment last night. 
AAUP to work for faculty goals 
by Bill Barnes Staff Reporter 

The Notre Dame chapter of the American 
Association of University Professors 
<AAUP) will attempt to resolve issues 
concerning faculty interests. The Notre 
Dame chapter is in the re-organizational 
stages following the election of a new 
executive board headed by Dr. James E. 
Robinson, professor of English. 
The board plans to researeh controversial 
issues such as tenure, academic freedom, 
economic status and collective bargaining. 
PresneUy, however, the chapter will just be 
conducting. a membership drive. 
According to Dr. Robinson, the AAUP is 
·'a professional organization which 
promotes, defends and studies essential 
principles that are sacred to the" 
profession." The AAUP has been q.volved 
in tbese. studies for the past sixty years. 
~continued on pare 5) 


Monday, September 15, 1975 


,. 

warld briefs 
BE I RUT, Lebanon (APl -Sectarian warfare between Moslems and Christians spread to the streets of the Beirut suburbs Sunday, and police reported six persons killed and more than 25 wounded in fierce mortar and machine-gun battles. Witnesses said the fighting broke out In the eastern suburbs of Sinnet Fll, Nabaa and Borj Hammoud. Reports from northern Lebanon said Trlpoly and nearby Akar were quiet but still explosive after two weeks of war between private militias that has killed at least 130 persons. 
AFYON, Turkey (APl-The Turkish government Is confident It has succeeded in preventing Turkish opium poppies from finding their way into illicit heroin markets, so it plans to license 100,000 farmers to grow poppies again this year for medicinal uses. 
Officials said farmers will be ailowed to plant 50,000 acres in seven provinces, the same amount planted last year after Turkey ended the two-year opium-cultivation ban it had imposed under pressure from the United States. 
ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia (APl -Government security forces searched Eritrea provine Sunday for two Americans and six Ethiopians abducted by raiders who attacked a U.S. Navy satellite tracking station of the Kagnew communications facility near Asmara. The military government said nine civilians were killed and 23 injured in Saturday's raid, believed to have been carried out by rebels seeking independence for the northern province. 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland (APl-Republic Army guerrillas, backed up by machine-gun squads, erected roadblocks Sunday, searched cars and warned they will shoot sectarian assassins on sight. 
A spokesman for the IRA's Official wing said: "Our men have 
been ordered to get the sectarian killers and mad bombers from 
whichever side of the community they come." 
Rival Protestant and Catholic terrorists have killed more than 20 
persons in the last three weeks. Two more men were killed during 
the night. 


an campus taday 
4:15 pm--film, "busby berkeley's gold diggers of 1935" In engineering auditorium, sponsored by speech and drama dept. 
$1.00 

8:05 pm--footbalt, notre dame at boston college on abc tv. 
New racing club craft d U

christened in Sacre near 
. . 

smaller contnbutwns and club fund-raising projects. "It has been a three-year ef­"We not have five-shells," said fort," said club president John Claude. "Three are of racingClaude. The major difficulty in quality. Our next-best shell to this 
(continued from page I) 
raising the $5700 needed for the new one is 10 years old," he con-
shell was the relative youth of the tinued. "It took the club eightRowing Club's alumnae, said years to pay that one off. This is Claude. the culmination of a lot of 
dreams."
"The club was founded in 1965," he explained. "Most of the There are approximately 40 alumnae aren't financially women and 60 men in the Rowing established yet." Club, said Claude. They operate 
The Buccini family donated from a boathouse on the St. Joseph $1500 to the fund, and the River and compete on an in-remaining funds came from tercollegiate lever. 
Observer changes staff 
Personnel changes within the plements and supervision of 
Observer editorial board have reporters. Mader has served as been announced by Obst'rver· copy reader and senior staff editor Terry Keeney. reporter. 
Eder's duties as executive editor 

Bob Mader has been appointed to include general supervision of all the bo'rd as campus editor. Jim aspects of the paper. He will also Eder IS resigning as editorial serve as a trouble-shooter for 
special Observer projects. Eder
editor to become executive editor. 
Pat Hanifin, former campus has served previously as editorial editor, replaces Eder as editorial editor, contributing editor, copy editor. reader and reparter.
Hanifin, as editori-al editor,

Fred Graver has resigned as assumes responsibility for the executive editor. editorial page. The junior Mader, a· junior American government major from Honolulu, Studies major from Fairview Hawaii has recently served as Pa.·k, Ohio, is responsible for the campus editor and previously af
________________,
campt.s "beat" system, sup-copy reader and..staff reporter. 
r 
PEACH TREE II •DINING ROOM • 1,I RAND I I UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT 1 TUESDAY NIGHT SPECIAL 1 
L 
ISPAGHETTI AND MEATBALLS I &SALAD 
WITH THIS COUPON $.05 FOR FIRST BEER ( WITH LL YOU CAN EAT $1.95 DINNER) ~
.................. ..............._ 
~ 




First American canonized 
By JULIE FLINT Associated Press Writer 
VATICAN CITY (AP) -As thousands of Americans knelt on the cobblestones of St. Pe­ter's Square on Sunday, Pope Paul VI proclaimed Elizabeth Ann Seton, a convert to Roman Catholicism, their first native­born saint. 

Shuttle bus route set 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's shuttle bus is following a new route. 
The change of route was made last spring when Student Govern­ment offficials discovered that the bus company was contracted and paid to run through campus at night but failed to do so. 
After 6 P.M. the bus will go from the Library Circle down Juniper and Dorr to the Main Circle. The shuttle will continue throught the gate at the security booth doen the road past the Rockne Building and along the lakes. 
The bus will run past Stepan Center, through the Security Gate onto Juniper, to Angela, to 
U.S. 31 North to St. Mary's. After the bus arrives at St.'Mary's, it will follow its regular route through campus. 
On the return trip, the shuttle will go south on U.S.31 to Angela, Notre Dame Ave., and the Main Circle. From the Circle, it will go to Juniper and stop at the LibraryCirc.Je. 
The bus which leaves St. Mary's at 10:30 P.M. will take a different route. 
When the bus arrives at the Main Circle from St. Mary's , it will go through the security gate at the Circle, dpwn the road which runs past theRockneBuilding, along the lakes, past the Infirmary and the firehouse. 
At the stop sign next to the fire house and near the North Diningf· Hall, it will turn right. The bus will head south in the direction ofthe ' stadium to Nieuwland Science Hall 
which is the end of the line. From there it will trace the same 

The huge square was filled with pilgrims, most of them Americans, as Pope Paul de­clared Mother Seton "among the saints in the universal church" and urged: 
"Rejoice, we say to the great nation of the United States of America. Rejoice for your glorious daughter ... be proud of her. And know how to pre­serve her fruitful heritage." 
Shortly ·afterward, an Italian parachuted into the square car­rying a replica of the statue of the Madonna that stands atop the Milan cathedral. The pontiff and thousands of others cheered. 
"This is the day we've been waiting for ever since I became a sister," said Miriam Jane, a Sister of Charity from Greens­burg, Pa. "It's a cliche, but it's the most wonderful day of my life." 
Sister Miriam was one of 100 
people, including many nuns, 
who received communion from 
Pope Paul during the two-hour 
canonization Mass. As 145 
priests took the host down to 
more than 15,000 Americans 
seated in the square, the 100 
walked up the steps to the pon­
tiff, led by a young girl making 
her first communion. 
Two Americans who Vatican 
investigators said pulled mi­
raculously back from death 
after prayers to Mother Seton 
brought up the rear. They were 
72-year-old Carl Kalin, a Swed­
ish-born construction worker from Yonkers, N.Y.', and Mrs. Ann O'Neill Hooe, of Baltimore, Md. 
The 30-minute canonization ceremony, inserted near the be­ginning of the Mass, departed from traditional ritual to stress women's contributions to society and to emphasize, in Pope Paul's own "'"rds, "the complete femininity' of Mother Seton-wife and mother of five, widow and nun. Pope Paul had earlier declared the day "Wom­en's Day." 
The crowd of pilgrims burst into applause as the 77-year-old pontiff concluded the centuries­old canonization formula say­ing: "We inscribe her name in the Calendar of the Saints and establish that she should be de­voutly honored among the saints in the universal Church." 
In his 15-minute homily, Pope Paul recalled that the United Nations has declared 1975 "In­ternational Women's Year." "We rejoice at the bond that is established between this pro­gram and today's canoniza­tion," he said. 
Praising Mother Seton's "per­sonal and extraordinary contri­bution as a woman-a wife, a mother, a widow and a reli­gious," the pontiff said: "May the dynamism and authenticity of h..:-r life be an example in our day-and for generations to come---1)f what women can and must accomplish in the fulfill­ment of their role, for the good of humanity." 


to St. Mary's , following Notre Dame Ave. to Angela to U.S.31 

N.D. STUDENT CLUBS AND HALLS 
.l\l~o;,;,r~th~-----~~~-~-. 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and st Mar'A's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor 10 dollars per semester <18 
dollars per year) from The Db-server, Box Q, Notre Dame, In­diana, 46556. second Class postage paid. Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

HA.WAIIAN NIGHI ftJESDAY $3.45 
Boar's Head brings the Islands to you. At less than Island prices! Delicious Hawaiian chicken dinner is only $3.45 per person plus tax. Includes Tropical fruit salad, wild rice, and sweet and sour sauce. Also: Boar's Head Salad Bar, hot bread, ice cream or sherbet, and coffee, tea, or milk. All for only $3.45 We're doing the whole place Hawaiian on Tuesday. Aloha. 
BOAR'S HEAD® RESTAURANT-S 
52885 U.S. 31 North in South Bend 


INTERESTED IN. ON-CAMPUS CONCESSIONS FOR FOOTBALL SATURD A VS CALL STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE 7308 (OR COME BY) 
DEADLINE.: WED. S,EPT. 17 5 PM 
-~----------------.... 
Monday, September 15, 1975 the observer 
Halls react to new alcohol policy 
by Phil Cackley Starr Reporter 

Reactions to Dean of Students James Roemer's proposal to allow hall councils to draw up rules on drinking vary widely. 
Roemer proposed last week that the hall governments adapt rules for the use of alcohol in their in­dividual halls. Under the proposal, students would not only create but would also enforce the rules. A number of rectors and hall presidents commented on Roemer's proposal yesterday. 
Fr. Bernard Prince, rector of Morrisey Hall, said he had not yet received any written proposal from Dean Roemer. However, he favors the plan: "The hall governments should have some say in the matter. In addition, this would give student governments the opportunity to adapt the policy to the individual halls, according to the geography of the dorm." 
Prince said the basic framework of the policy would have to be drawn up by the Student Life Council, but he felt that once the hall councils had made their rules they would enforce them. "We have inter-section sports within the hall, so we might as well have inter-section social life," Prince added. 
Another rector, who wished to remain anonymous, presented another view. Speaking of student­made rules and student en­forcement in general, he said, "It's never worked before, and I don't know if it's feasible. There is a problem of continuity, because of the turnover in students every four years. The program would have to be continuous, not just something that would last for a semester or a year and then collapse." 
The rector also questioned the effectiveness of student en­forcement, wondering if students would be serious enough to run in violators. He raised the possibility of student enforcement being overzealous, recalling that judicial boards were very harsh during the 1965 student-enforced academic policing program. 
"It's possible if it's done right, with very careful Qlanning. But student enforcement can be backed to the detriment of the students, or degenerate into nothing," the rector concluded. 
Joe Corpora, an R.A. at Hoiy Cross Hall, also commented. He said the main advantage of the plan would be that the relaxed stipulations on alcohol would keep 
drinking in the halls and on the 
campus in general, rather than 
having students going up t1' Michtgan. H~~; cited two instances in past years when inebriated students returning home from Michigan were struck by cars and killed while hitch-hikin~t. 
Many hall presidents felt the responsiblity to be given to students under the plan would be beneficial. "This will force responsibility on the students in an otherwise utopic environment where everything is done for us," said Jack Hanzel, president of 
Zahm Hall.  .  
"Students  will  be  more  
responsible than  before, both  to  

other people and to themselves," said Jane Lammers, president of Lyons Hall. "Because of this, the program will work, as the responsiblity will no longer rest with authority figures." 
Denis Sullivan, Grace Hall president, emphasized that two 



US motorists still speeding 
The nation's drivers are still 
whizzing along highways above 
the 55 mile per hour limit de­
signed to conserve energy de­
spite recent increases in gaso­
line prices, an Associated Press 
survey shows. 
In the survey, AP reporters drove at 55 m.p.h. for an hour during a weekday noontime this week on highways across the country. The test showed that in only one state was the re­porter, while driving at the le­gal limit, able to pass more cars than passed him. 
And in that state, West Vir­ginia, the reporter said he be­lieved the test was thrown off by drivers from the opposite di­rection blinking their lights to warn of a radar speed trap. 
The survey also showed: 
-The number of speeding tickets is up considerably over the period before the 55 m.p.h. limit was put into effect in March of last year. In some cases the number is more than 
Foundation 
double or triple what in was in the pre-55 m.p.h. period. 
-Police have increased at­tempts to trap speeders, in some cases adding radar units and unmarked patrol cars. Some of these efforts are ap­parently aimed at preventing loss of federal highway funds, which can be taken away from states not enforcing the 55 
m.p.h. limit. 
Earlier this week, the U.S. Transportation Department or­dered all states to furnish data showing they were enforcing the lower speed limit. 
-Police officials in most states believe that drivers, if not following the 55 m.p.h. lim­it, are at least driving at speeds below what they did be­fore it went into effect. Many police also said they thought lowered speed limits had low­ered traffic fatalities, though safety officials say figures do not necessarily substantiate this. 

fellowships 
to be awarded in March 
by Midge May 

Staff Reporter The Danforth Foundation will award its fellowships next March. These fellowships are available to anyone seriously considering faculty or administrative positions in universities or seeking a Ph.D. in any undergraduate liberal arts field. "1976 will be the twenty-fifth year the Danforth Foundation will be in existence," said Professor Walter Nicgorski, Notre Dame'i liaison officer. "in that quarter of a century, It has aided in sustaining college teaching and many outstanding graduate teachers in America." Notre Dame's record for the receipt of the awards is very good, noted Nicgorski. Last year, two of the 65 nationally awarded fellowships went to Notre Dame students. At the time of applying, ap­plicants must be under the age of 35, and may not have engaged in any graduate or ~professional studies beyond the baccalaureate. The liaison officers of each un­dergraduate institut~ will nominate four persons by Novv. 20, 1975. The Danforth Foundation does not accept direct application. The award ts given for one year and is renewable for up to four years of study. Fellowship stipends are based on need, not exceedin·g· $2275 for single fellows and $2440 for married fellows peracademic year plus dependency 
allowances, tuition and fees. 
Other fellowships may be held along with a D'anforth Fellowship. Further income will be con· sidered in determining the sup­plementery . ~ allowance, 
Mr. and Mrs. ~\V'alliam H. Dan­forth establiSh~ Ithe foun~aUen' in
.. 1927 as a ·~tronal, edu:Qational philanthrC)pf~:t.:organJl~ion 
1

dedicated~. tct{:~~hane~ the humane dinieD$llld: of»('~. Nicgorski wUl boldat meeting on the Danforth, Fellowship and the 
years ago, enforcement was left to the halls, and that program worked. He sees no reason why success could not be repeated. 
J.P. Russel, president of Holy Cross Hall, feels that "Ute hall councils are quite capable of setting up and enforcing their own 'drinking regulations.' " He also commented on the absurdity that 18 year-olds cannot drink at the University, but that a few miles away, it is entirely legal. 
Mark Kaiser, president of Flanner, sees the need for some type of consistency in enforcement from hall to hall. Whether or not students could carry on self­enforcement-"That's up in the air," Kaiser said. 
Don'na Crowley, Farley Hall president, sees the proposal as a good idea, but feels that the rules would be more respected if the hall staffs had the final say, rather than the students themselves. 
One hall president, who wished to remain anonymous, questioned the level of authority on which Dean Roemer has suggested his proposal. The hall president wonders if the proposal has been issued merely to build confidence . ,1 the Dean's Office and to gain favor with the students, while a major possibility remains that the plan is entirely unacceptable to the administration and will be vetoed. 
He also asked where the final responsiblity would rest under Roemer's proposal. "Hit lies with the hall presidents," he said, "I'm sure we'll give it a try. But if one hall president gets burned, forget it." 
THE 

RESUME PLACE 
25. 8 1/2 X 11 
RAG BOND Only $2.55 insly·prints · 
203 N. MAIN 
SO.BEND, IND 
289-6977 


list. Devine is exJ>eelte411!9

nominatin' pi"ocedUres on Mon• ••'"A''"'"" the wi!'ning
day, 22 at 7:30 p.m. in thE! 


TOBY'S 
.. 

IN CONCERT 
WE HAND SELECT OUR 

J\1\0RRIS CIVIC AU DITOP'. JM 
PlANTS. 

SAT. SEPT. 20 SF 
THERE'S·' ALWAYS 


ALL SEATS RESERVED
SOMETHING NEW AT TOBY'S· HANGING 

$5 -$4 -$3
PLANTS.SPECIMEN PLANTS-& TARTER 

sale now at morris
PLANTS-PLANT HARDWARE & MORE-

auditorium box offioe 11-5 
J20A S. MICHIGAN ST. 

suspended chord-elkhart&goshen
RIVER BEND PLAZA 

record joint-bell plaza niles 
..illir.lillliltililtiM••Iiii.....••AIIii..-'6.W._•••• 
-opinions of police varied on whether drivers were com­plying with the lower speed 
limit  more  now  than  when  it  
first  went  into effect.  
The  highest  incidence  of  

speeding was reported in New Jersey, where the test driver reported he was passed by more than 200 vehicles on the New Jersey Turnpike and passed only two vehicles. 
On the opposite end of the spectrum was New Mexico, where the reporter said he was passed by five vehicles and passed four. But he noted one of the cars passing him was a state patrol car with its lights flashing. 
The reporter in New Jersey noted that the biggest offenders seemed to · be trucks, most of which seemed to be driving at speeds of around 70 m.p.h., about what they did before the lowered limits. Some police and service station operators in oth­er states had the same feeling and said tha1. sal..sman were also more frequent off·:mders. 
******•·····~·····
Notre Dame football trivia 
For the statisttc~-min Notre Dame won all ll 1\Nm~~~ under Parseghian .ht}d lost an inaugural smce when Hugh Devore '\\'as • the shots. On the ~Iller Devine is no great'fshakes openers, having go~e 2·0-1 Arizona but only 7=6·.at Mis:sow 

before going to tbJ! pros ,...,11 ."'~~" 1 four years. .<, Notre Dame's O\!U-all is 563-150-38 and ~ ~cen:tagj.wt~~l of .776 is to on tbe au··uun::: 






rodent 
tudent
•
IS

I.---­
I Send for your Student I. D.Card
I 
and enjoyI special rates at Hilton Hotels
I 
and Inns coastI to coast. (Grad students and faculty, too.) Just mail this coupon
I 
to Hilton Hotels Fulfillment Dept., Suite 200.
I 
205 So. Beverly Drive. Beverly Hills, CA 90212. 
I Name_________________________________ 
I Addres.,______________________ 
I 
City State Zip___ 
I College Class of 19___ 
:xHILTOD HOTELS:
..---------------.. 




The ObServer 
an independent student newspaper 
Founded November 3, 1966 
Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief Tom Modglin Business Manager Tom Whelan _ Advertising Manager 
~PrTORIAL BOARD AI Rutherford, Managing Editor; Jim Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor; Ken Girouard, News Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; KenBradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; Tom O'Neil, Features Editor; C:hris Smith, P~oto Editor 
EditoriAls: 181~1 
N"ws: 28::,:1~·1..:,.7:..;:15_____B::..:u:.;;•i;;.;.n";.;';;.;."..:;2B:;.:l~-7...;,4;_;71---------il 

Monday, September 15, 1975 
..----

Dpinian 
SLC Elections 
On Sept. 23 the students of Notre Dame will select their represen­tatives· to the Student Life Council. The Council was established to discern, debate and recommend solutions to student­related problems for the University in general and the Board of Trustees in particular. The SLC was\ Notre Dame's own response to the student turmoil of the late '60's. Primarily, the "student revolt" was due to a lack of structures throqgh which students could .influen_~e \decisions directly altering their lives. It is a part of human nature, however, to lose interest in what our predecessors have worked so hard to create. This phenomenon seriously weakened the SLC last year and threatens to undermine any hope there might be of the SLC's recovery in the near future. 
Many of you may consider the 
SLCas \nothing more than a bone 
tossed to the overwrought un· 
dergrads of 1968; then again, you 
may have seen the depiction of 
Congress this summer as a 
toothless shark and you suspect 
that the cartoon ("GUMS") would 
aptly symbolize Notre Dame's own 
Student Life Council. I'd like to 
point out some of the reasons' I 
believe these views are mistaken 
and, if at the end of the uear I am 
proven wrong, I'll join with you in 
calling for an end to the Council's 
existence. 
Last year, the SLC was criticized 
for being too large to be effective 
and powerless in the face of 
President Father Hesburgb's veto. 
Steps were taken last year by the 
SLC members in resoonse to these 
s e r ia u s IY.~ 
WASHINGTON--Sally is in California ; Ben is in Rochester; Irwin is in Philadelphia; \Saul is in Greensboro; Nyra is in Pitt­sburah; Jimmy is in Hartford, and Gail is in Baton Rouge. 
What are all these people doing? They're flogging their books-­that's what. There was a time when a person wrote a book and sold it to a publisher who printed and distributed it. The writer's work was finished the day he delivered the manuscript. 
But since television, writing is just a small part of an author's business. His or her major effort must now go into the selling of the book, which means criss-crossing the United States for a month or six weeks, appearing on talk shows that start at seven in the morning and radio shows that go on at midnight. 
This is how it goes. After your book is accepted for 1publication,\ the publisher takes your editor away from you and turns you over to the "TV and radio co'()rdinator" in the publicity department, usually a man or woman who has just started there the week before. Tbe reason for this k::l the biggest turnover in the book·;industry is in the publicity department. And the reason for this ia that every time a bo&k doesn't sell, the first people to be fll'ed are the publicists. 
Tbe CO'()rdinator, who hasn't had timt_ to read your book, tells you thatbe or she has arranged for you to be on "Bob Dimplehoffers' All Nig)l& FM Radio Talk Show" in Corn Blight, Neb. The co-ordinator :ells you Dimpleboffer is very hillh 
0.1 your book and s_pecificaDy askt=d for you to be on tne·~ow. 
You ask how to get to Corn Blight, Neb., and he or sbe tells you and other criticisms. 
The SLC reduced its size to fif­teen members, five from each of the tripartite constituencies on the board. This \will \do three things: 
1. It will strengthen the election procedure by simplifying the apportioning 9f districts and enlarging those districts, making them harder to win. The resultant need for more visible campaigns in the north Quad, South Quad and Off-Campus districts should in­crease the awareness of students and necessitate a solid com­
mitment' from the candidate's themselves. 
2. 
It will mean that the SLC will no longer be able to staff its. committees unless concerned volunteers from the community are included. This proved to be an essential part of the COUL report's success. 

3. 
It will reduce absenteeism while making it much easier to communicate directly with each member of the board before im­portant votes. This should lessen confusion and make each vote more meaningful' to both Fr. Hesburgh and the Board of Trustees. 


Criticism of the SLC tends to ignore the significance of its right of appeal to the Board subsequent to a Presidential veto. The most controversial veto -on human sexuality -is an oft-cited example of the SLC's powerlessness. The right of appeal was not even considered in this case because the board members, themselves, had barely passed the revision. 
For three reasons we need to revitalize the SLC : first. it is the

fa I k 
~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 



Flogg1ng Books 
oru~..~ w!-.l!!!.!,,
faculty and students can make stands and defend them under the watchful eyes of the other two constituencies represented on the council and the Notre Dame community as a whole; second, it is the only group whose respon­sibility it is to deal with the problems of the entire university community where administrators, faculty and students get together regularly to discuss solutions; finally, the SLC is the only policy­making group established by the Board' of Trustees to deal soley with "student life" that has a right ofappeal to the Board. It woUld be more than ironic, it would be inexcusable for students to con­tribute to the demise of the Student Life Council. 
The reason I wrote this "opinion" is that there is still time for you to become involved in this year's SLC elections. The ability of the SLC to assume the im­pOrtant position it was created to occupy · depends entirely on the quality of its representatives. If you desire to become a candidate from either the North or South Quads, or from Off-Campus, petitions are still\ available in the student government offices on the third floor of LaFortune but the deadline for handing these petitions in is Tuesltay night. 
If you don't have the time or the inclination to run for a seat, at least take the time to listen to the candidates so that you can make an informed, intelligent 'choice of your district's representative on Sept. 23. 

art buc:hwald 

it's very easy. You fly to Chicago about dogs."and change planes for Omaha. In "Cats." Omaha you change planes for "Right, cats. What brings you to Lincoln. Then you take a Corn Blight, Art?" Greyhound Bus to Waring Falls "I was just passing through and I and change to a Trailways Bus to had never seen an FM radio station Sundown Corners, where one of before .... " Bob's people will pick you up and The next morning after three drive you the 90 miles t_o\ Corn hours' sleep you go into the local Blikht. bookstore (the only bookstore) to 
If you raise any objections the autograph your book. co'()rdinator says, "Well if you "What book?" the lady asks. don't want to sell any books that's "Didn't my publisher tell you I your business." was coming here to plug my
So you kiss your wife and book?" children goodbye and promise "Nope. We only handle best themiYou'll\be home by Christmas. sellers." 
After missing the connection in Three days later you get back Chicago, and the Greyhound Bus in home and call the TV and radio co­Lincoln, you finally make it to ordinator. "They had no books in Dimplehoffer's radio station in the stores," you scream. Corn Blight with a half-hour to He or she says calmly, "That's spare. not my department. You have to 
Dimplehoffer is in the studio speak to sales." playing a Bobby Gentry record. He says, "Look, I only got a couple min.utes, fill me in on what the book is all about." 
·"Didn't you read it?" 
"Are you kidding? I don't have the observer time to read the papers. It's about Watergate, isn't it?" • 
"No, that was my 'last \book. Night Editor: Tim O'Relley This one is about a cat who does TV Asst· Night Editor: Martha commercials and gets kidnapped." Fanning 
"But I thought I was going to talk Layout Staff: Mark Hutton, Larry to you about Watergate. My Carcare listeners don't want to bear about Day Editor: Brian Clancy cats-not at three in the mor-Copy Reader: Jack D'Auroros ning." Editorials: Eo · 
"But the cat book is the one I Sports: Bob Brink, Tom Cruczek want to flog." Typists: Terri Harlan, Karen 
"All right but make it short, I Chiames, Maureen McCarthy,have to take teleph~ calls about Candy Mrs. Ford's attitudes toward Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz young people." Right Controller: Howard Halle 
After Bobby Gentry, Dim-Picture Screener: Tom Lose plehoffer says, "We have a special Ad Layout: Tom Whelan 
guest who has just written a book, . 
-~-------~-~·--~-­
......_.

laughing bay 
Whither Rapport? 
Since ilie Wttoducti!~~~mro~~-~'!~,t
Body several years ago, certain conventions have been established concerning male-female relationships. For example, going up to a girl and panting is now considered bad form. 
When trying to hunt down that dream girl ·for the upcoming hall 
party ,'(:oncert, or inter-racial taffy pull, you should keep the basic requirements in mind. \N.D. girls generally prefer men who have good old-fashioned AmeriCan values, like Buicks; others insist that all their dates still be breathing (although some will make ex­ceptions). 
For the first date it is often a good idea to leave campus if at all possible. Places to visit include the Chicago Art Museum, the glass factory in Elkhart, or the Holiday Inn off highway 94. 
Meeting a girl itself is often a problem. Many suggest kid­napping, although if the girl doesn't like you, there's the problem of what to do with the body. Instead, try to have a friend set you up with a blind date. The danger here is you might expect too much. Be realistic. Try not to look too disappointed if you open the door of her room and find your date playing with an automobile tire hanging from a chain. 
If one is to be a success with girls here at Notre Dame, you must master the art of the phone conversation. What follows is the transcript of a rather successful attempt. Notice how the young man instantly established a rapport. 
(phone rings) Girl: Hello? 
Boy: I DON'T CARE WHETHER YOU GO OUT WITH ME OR -NOT! !ARE YOU BUSY THIS SATURDAY? 
Girl: Well, uh, I do have a... 
Boy: I KNEW IT!! AGHHHHHHHH 
Now while the boy was unable to get a date, this sort of valuable training eventually got him a job in the Registrar's office. The following are some simple do's and don't's of datlngetiquette: 
• 
Don't make jokes about fireplugs. 

• 
When walking through a crowd with your date, try to make sure she doesn't get knocked down. 

• 
When you're at a restaurant, let the girl order first. Ifshe orders something too expensive, leave. 


Meanwhile, it should be reported that an average shower will use six gallons of water per minute .... 
Cammentary_ We Can Help 
AI Sondej resumed his personal war a~!~orl~~e~~ 
Friday. His dedication to the ideal that all men are created equal should be an inspiration to all of us. 
Once again the Notre Dame graduate has stationed himself in front of the dining halls during lunch and supper time, collecting donations for several relief agencies combating starvation. His familiar cry of "a penny is ~ual to~l.5 bowls of porridge, a dime 
is 15!" once more -aramatically' reminds us of our very real ability to assist suffering humanity throughout the world. 
The problem of world hunger is both complex and extensive to be sure .. But AI Sondej has demonstrated that it is not beyond com­prehension and alleviation, if we are willing to confront it. 
Last year AI collected over $14,000 in small change on the Notre Dame campus. This money was sent to such agencies as CARE, UNICEF, Catholic Relief Services, OxFam, and Church World Services, .which in turn converted it into food and relief supplies for the starvmg. 
This year Sondej is being joined by Greg Gramelspacher in his effort to solicit our assistance. Greg is collecting at the St.Mary's dining hall during meal hours in order to give the entire Notre Dame · St. Mary's community an opportunity to do somethingabout world hunger. 
Student response to this endeavor was excellent last year. Hopefully this demonstration of Christian generosity and human concern will continue this year. Even if our efforts make only a small dent into the enormous problem of world hunger, at least it is a start. Bigger programs will eventually come, but for now we can best help through our dining hall contributions. · 
DOONESBURY Garry Trudeau 
L£STef?. OVERTHN?& IJ!aL, I.'M 
IS OUR. INS/aJ SURe you've tu GeT /I.EINS//J6 MAN? GOTAi.QT )O(JFOR. 6/itiAJ liP MAN.. I 7lJ 11115.. 106e1HER!
1­
I r· 



Monday, September 15, 1975 the observer 
Airmail Stamps to be eliminated 
delivery for letters traveling up to purchasing airmail postage for collection services and the use of airmail service performance."
WASHINGTON <AP> -The 
Postal Service announced Sunday 600 miles, and third-day delivery domestic delivery," the service letter sorting machines, the Postal for letters headed to more distant said in a statement. Service has the capability of The change applies to first-class
that its plan to upgrade first-dass 
domestic addresses. providing service to. first-class mail weighting 13 ounces or less.
mail service, eliminating the need "Due to the extensive use of air mail which, on a national basis, Unaffected are priority mail,to buy domestic airmail stamps, "Under the new program, there 
transportation, adjustments in will regularly equal or exceed which now starts at 14 ounces andwill go into effect Oct. 11. no longer will be an advantage in includes air parcel service, and 
The cost of mailing a first-class letter weighing less than an ounce now is 10 cents, with each ad­ditional ounce costing 9 cents. Airmail stamps are now 13 cents. 
The Postal Service is expected to begin action this week that will increase the cost of mailing a first­class letter to 13 cents after Christmas. 
Under changes in operating and dispatch procedures, 'the Postal Service said it will be able to program more than 90 per cent of all first-class mail for either next­day or seconday delivery. 
At present, that schedule applies only to airmail. On first class mail, the Postal Service seeks to provide next-day service in metropolitan areas, second-day 
fcontinued from page I) 
The board plans to explore the possibilities of collective bargaining. Before any proposals are made, Robinson plans to study the issue thoroughly. Robinson hopes that the faculty senate and the AAUP can co-sponser visitors from other campuses that already have collective bargaining. 
The AAUP is in favor of the proposal by the faculty senate concerning tenure. Current university policy allows dismissal without a given reason among · faculty members who have not yet received tenure. The AAUP ad­vocates a procedure that would explain reasons in cases of un­renewed contracts Another AAUP concern deals 
. with department recom­mendations to the administration. It is thoutht that these recom­mendations are not treated fairly by the administration. The AAUP feels a better procedure can be formulated. 
Dr. Robinson explained AAUP policy in academic freedom as, "the persuit of truth, unhampered· by any kind of government and university control or censorship." Robinson feels that education in a free society should have this quality. The AAUP investigates violations of this right. 
Economic status is a recent issue which will be looked at by the 

Others walkouts unsettled 



NY teacher's strike nears end 
NEW YORK <AP> -Negotia­tiors for the striking United Federation of Teachers and New York City's Board of Edu­cation indicated Sunday agree­ment may be near on a new labor contract to end a week­Ion~ teachers' walkout. 
"We are near a conclusion, closer than we ever were," said Albert Shanker, president of the UFT, whose 65,000 mem· bers struck the 1.1 million-pupil school system last Tuesday. 
Nearly two million students were at home and 125,000 teachers off the job at the end of last week in a wave of teach­ers' strikes across the nation. The optimistic report from New York was one of only a few hopeful signs to emerge over the weekend. 
In Chicago, where 530,000 stu­dents and 27,000 teachers have been out of school since Sept. 3, the Board of Education and the city's teachers' union remained far apart in their differences 
over  a  cost-ilf-living  salary  in­ 
crease  proposal.  
Teachers  in  Chicago  earn  be­ 
tween  $10,400 and  $20,996.  

Talks in the 12-day-illd teach­ers' strike in Berkeley, Calif., 
AAUP to help ND faculty 
were stalemated despite a new district proposal, and no prog­ress was reported in a labor dispute in San Jose, Calif. Teachers in nearby Milpitas, meanwhile, authorized a pos­sible walkout. 
Strikes by 927 teachers in New Bedford, Mass., and 820 in Lynn, Mass., were expected to continue Monday, while in Rhode Island, disputes in seven districts remained unsettled. 
In Pennsylvania, teachers in four districts agreed over the weekend to return to work, leaving 6,665 teachers and 132,­650 students in 23 districts out of classes because of labor dis· pules. 
And in Wilmington, Del.. 
striking teachers were urged to 
remain off the job Monday de­
spite a threat of arrest from 
city officials armed with a 
court order. 
In New York City, Shanker and Robert Christen, the school board's chief negotiator, said at a news conference that negotia­lions were recessed until Moo­day because of Yom Kippur, · the Jewish Day of Atonement. They said meetings late Moo-day could result in a ratifica­
lion vote Tuesday. 
Monday is a school holiday in 
New York City. Shanker is to 
return to state Supreme Court 
on Tuesday to face charges he 
violated a state law banning 
strikes by public employes. 

:··········ti·e>~e)(·1i..c:·~·p~'·c:c;firt<·······: 
: Under new management : : See Notre Dame Football and :
• ' z 
£Mon. NiQht Football on our 6ft. TV screen.: 
: NOW SERVING SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST: : GLASS OF BEER : 
: 2~z-~' :
.•..............................,..........•.. 
local chapter. Notre Dame faculty salaries are in the fourtieth per­centile among the top schools in the country. "We hope to make a study," Robinson stated, "com­paring Notre Dame figures to national ones." Robinson said he would first study other priorities before and request for salary improvement. 
Robinson would like to see im­provements in the "role of the faculty in decision making." As a member of the faculty senate and the academic counsel, Robinson still feels the need for increased representation. 
Other members elected to the executive committee are vice­president, Dr. Alberto Ross, associate professional specialist, radiation laboratory; secretary, Dr. Michael Francis, professor of government and interior studies; and treasurer, Dr. Roger Skurski, associate professor of economics. 


ACTIVITIES NIGHT TUESDAY, SEPT. 16 7:00pm · 12:00 
All NO -SMC organizations and clubs to be present. 
international airmail. 



THE LAW BOARD REVIEW SEMINAR TAUGHT BY PRACTICING ATTORNEYS 
The Law Board Review Center announces a special, weekend Seminar in preparation for the October LSAT. The instructing attorney fully prepares the aspiring law student to maximize his/her score on the Test. The Seminar provides a thorough analysis of the LSAT, including extensive replication and review of all relevant sections of the Test. This intensive weekend review also includes special emphasis in those areas where scores are most likely to be improved, consideration of test­taking techniques, and materials for additional study. The complete fee is $85. 
IN NOTRE DAME at the Holiday Inn Sat. & Sun., Sept. 27th & 28th Sat.-9AM-3:30PM-Sun.-9AM-6:30PM 
Information and Reservations Call Toll-Free 800-458-2380 
LAW BOARD RFVLEW CENTER 
32 Gramercy Park South 10770 Lawler Street New York, New Uork 10003 Lo& Angeles, Calif. 90034 
Featuring live broadcasting by WSND and singing by the Glee Club. (All organizations and club representatives to be present between 6:00 -6:30 ) 
COME AND SEE WHAT THE ND • SMC COMMUNITY HAS TO OFFER 


the observer Monday, Septe.tr.ber.15; 1t75\ 


Hoflacm comments 
Freshmen approve of curriculum changes 
tiy Robert Jacques Staff Reporter 

'"lbe freshman class is a great deal happier with the curriculum than the classes in the past have ~ with the set schedules," IUDlmarized Dean Emil T. Hof man of the Freshman Year of Studies about the effects of numerous changes made in the 
freshman year program this .emester. 
The most obvious and important ftiange in the freshman curriculum is the allowance of three electives over the two semesters. Previously there had been none. The change allows 
students a greater voice in course 
se!~tio:nows for a considerable opening of options for the Colleges of Business Administration and Arts and Letters intents," stated Hofman. Those freshmen plan-rung to major in science or engineering will normally take the same courses specified in past years. Hofmar. added that pre­professionals are also affected strongly by the modification. . 
The new curriculum reqwres each freshman to . ~a.ke two semester~ of humamb~s and mathematics! two of either. a natural science or foreign l~age and one semester of a social science. or history. Nine hours of electives completes the lclledule. 
Although a !lumber of students ended up taking the same classes for their electives as were previously required, ,"Hofman! stated that most were enjoying the benefits of the program. The program was designed by the 
University Committee for the 
r.:-eesh:s~~ta~~:r ~: ~huedie~iu:~ 
Freshman Advisory Council and met the required approval of the Academic Council. 
Other major changes were in­stituted in the areas of math and language. Until this year, any student planning on majoring in science or engineering was 


SMC holds slogan contest 
required to complete Math 125 and 126 before becoming a sophomore. The course is a rigorous treatment of basic calculus. Because some high school seniors are not prepared to take such a course, they may now substitute Math 115 116 and 117 This consists of a first se~ester dealing in pre-calculus mathematics and two more covering calculus. 
Although many students in the 1past had cited the lack. of high 

. school calculus as the culprit. Hofman;. stressed that the,problem was a lack of underlying math, which the new set of classes corrects. About 15 percent of the 
100 .$tudents entering science and engineering are taking it. 

For business and arts andl lett~rs i~tents Math 104 and 105 which mcludes calculus and prec~lculus, are no'Y being em­phasized. Other options such as two. seme~ters of calculus .are ·easily obtamed. Hofman. prai~edthe new arrangement which replaces a largely l~sely knit set 
of one semeste! options. . ~other maJor change Is the choice of four levels of language 
courses: beginning, elementary, inter.mediate, and advanced. Previously, elementary was the }Qwest level ~f three offered. 
~an -~ cit~ the need for the fourth choice: Students who had had none of the language before found themselves in elementary classes with students who had had several years but whose 
prof!ciency ~as be~ow that 
reqwred for mtermediate. The two groups will now be separated. The c~ntent and approach of the two will be the sam~. <?nlY ~~e student ma.ke-up will di~f~r. 
Hofman said that the addition of t~e .~eginning class· was very sigruficant. . 
.<?ther changes mclude the ad­
~~~~es0fandvfu:1 re~~~o~h~l~~~ 
History 109 and 110 to cover only Europe and Asia instead of the entire globe. 
Besides classses, freshmen will have the opportunity to participatein a wide range of freshman year sponsored activities. These in-elude cookouts on Sept. 19 and 26, a 
trip to Warren Dunes State Park in Michigan on Oct. 19, an excursion to Chicago on Nov. 28 and a number of snow parties, yet to be scheduled. :rtte class has already had a shoppm_g t«?ur of South Bend on Sept. 5, Which Hofm~n c~ed a great success, and the ftrst of three cookouts on Sept. 12. 
Hoffman stated that more in­formation concerning these events will ~ ~sseminated at the ap­,propnate dates. . 


~,.H£ ~ 
~~~l TRIIJ)/.IIA 
,yv l , ,... CQ
1 
SLEEVELESS COA • 


DOWN
VEST. 
, Perfect 
FQ.\1 out­
.f.• ·"' 
QCriVIIY.
Warmth
·+h 
WI out 
weight/
CENTER ~ishawaka IN 4654'+


Ph '/
one: 21q 2S''I-52l3 
by Brigid Rafferty Staff Reporter 

A contest to choose a team name for all St. Mary's sports is beingspOnsored by the Developmental Commission of the Board of Regents. The coilt~t will run from today through midnight, Sunday, September 28, according to CathyCoyne, Student DevelopmentCommissioner. 
The purpose of the contest is to encourage more enthusiasm for St. Mary's sports and emphasize the need for better recreational facilities. 
"This year basketball, unll•m'h"" 
~r----~~~~~~~~-=~Lje=M~a=n:s:o:r~P~.~Oii.•Bo._x.l~OiMi.u........,::~·~::::t.:~;;;:~:F.::::::~::::::::::~::=~==~::~::~:. 
cing--have prescheduled meets." Coyne said. 
"With the purchase of new equipment, and a coaching staff that is excited about the program, all we need is a team name to represent St. Mary's and draw spirit, similar to the effect that the "Fighting Irish" slogan and Leprechaaun mascot has for Notre Dame," Coyne stated. 
A prize of $25 will be given for the winning slogan, which will be chosen by a committee of students, administratiors and faculty members. The winner will be announced when the judging is completed.
All entries should be sent to Cathy Coyne, 4958, Room 469 
I 
I 
I

With presentation of Student 10 Card
z n1 
0 STUDENT this coupon entitles bearer to !::I 
A. -a 'I 


:l DISCOUNT """41 
0 ~I 
u en Pier 111por1S 2Qo/o "'I nl
-
::t Ol .... off cl 
A. Limit 1 coupon per customer -al Offer good until September 30, 1975 01 
--~'~ Zl 
I 

CAL-L FOR DEEP DISH PIZZA 

so 

IF YOU WATCH THE GAME IN A ONIGHT FOR THE GAME GROUP OR ALONE LET THE PAN 
OR ANY NIGHT OF THE WEEK JUST CALL FOR THE EATING 
EXPERIENCE OF YOUR LIFE 
ORDER ANY ICY COLD 8 PACK OF J6oz 7 -UP OR PEPSI Spm to Jam 


l07·Dt·X1EWAY NORT·H--~ 



SUPPLY 
THE PIZZA 
FOR 




FREE DELIVERY 
CALl 277-1221 or 277-1222 
ACROSS FROM. RANDALl'S INN 

that the neighborhood was on with Notre Dame live in the Harter decline. 
Heights area. Langford, also "In ten years they said it would director of the University Press, is be depreciated," Langford said. such a homeowner. "Red lining is very difficult to 
The amendment defines a family prove, but I was refused a mor­as "one or more persons related by tgage for the very reason that the blood, legal adoption or marriage, neighborhood was going to the 
living and cooking together as a dogs when the bank in essence was 
single housekeeping unit." Under creating the situations." such restrictions a family may "We would have lost the whole take in only two more unrelated neighborhood if something wasn't persons as boarders, a widow may done," Langford emphasized.house three. "Harter Heights looks nice off of 
Thomas Broden, director of Angela as you come off the turn­Urban Studies Institute, estimated pike, but along Notre Dame that between 15 to 20 homes quoted Avenue it is nothing but bars and last year as housing ap­cars," he continued. proximately 49 students, would be Broden further clarified , the 
affected. "Numerically the community's position: "They saw majority of off-campus students it as a threat which they wanted to live in family residences or in nip in the bud. There were certain apartments." instances of abuse that in effect got 
Fr. Thomas Tallarida, director people uptight." of off-campus housing, said "As it The amendment also includes a 
Vandal disfigures famous Rembrandt 
AMSTERDAM, The Nether­but would take from four 
lands !AP> Rembrandt's months or longer to restore. priceless 17th century master­"We must conclude the canvas piece "The Night Watch" was is badly damaged," he said. slashed and disfigured Sunday The assailant, who was even­
by a man armed with a ser­tually overpowered with the 
rated bread knife who fought help of two bystanders and 
off a. museum guard and told guards who rushed in from oth­by&~anders that he "did it for er rooms, was identified by po­
the Lord." lice as 38-year-old Wilhelm us 
Officials said the assailant de Rijk, a former teacher from arrived just after the Sunday the village of Bloemendaal 30 afternoon opening of the Rijks­'lliles west of Amsterdam. 
museum, went directly to the Authorities said he had a his­spacious chamber where "The tory of mental illness and was Night Watch" hangs, and began being held on a charge of wilful 
slashing at the lower center destruction. section of the 14-by 11-foot A guard reported the assail­
painting. It was the second ant told bystanders he had been 
knife attack on the painting in sent by the Lord to attack "The 
this century. Night Watch." 
A guard grabbed his arm, but "I was ordered to do it," he the heavily built assailant held was quoted as saying. "I had to him off and moved across the do it.' masterpiece to the right, slash­Rembrandt completed "The 
ing with the knife. He hit in Night Watch" in 1642. It shows 
more than a dozen places, leav­a company of civic guards 
ing a section some seven feet turning out for duty under or­
wide severely defaced. Knife ders of their captain and a lieu­
marks were more than two feet tenant. The canvas is regarded 
long. In the center section, a as the climax of Rembrandt's 
piece of canvas measuring clair obscure technique, using about 12 by 21k inches was contrasting shades of light. ripped off. For more than an hour after 
Dr. P.J. Van Thiel, the mu­the attack, museum visitors, seum's acting director, said the poured routinely through the damage was not irreparable chamber and saw the damage 
at first h:md. 

Monday, September 15, 1975 the observer 7 
Harter Heights zoning examined 
by Christie A. Herlihy applies to the city as a whole, it has grandfather clause which allows 
upon zonmg classification. An should and should not be dassified not affected student housing for the existing boarding houses to ordinance aimed at setting a as highly residential districts."
Staff Reporter 

this year. Places are presently continue to operate. This addition, uniform zoning code for the entire Because of high cost, single
Threatened by an increase of available." He refused to com­Langford believes, "buys Notre county is forth coming from the family housing is on the decline,absentee landlords in South Bend ment on the outlook for the future. Dame time in which to find housing federally funded Area Planning Langford believes. He sees in who felt no responsibility to Langford outlined the trend alternatives." He forsees, Commission. Such an ordinance South Bend a trend towards maintain their property, the towards urban decay which so however, that gradually the would define land use more multifamily Jiving, two familyHarter Heights and Neighbors alarmed the group. "We looked at boarding house arrangement specifically and unilaterally. condominiums or apartmentAssociation successfully lobbied houses that had already been might phase out into single family Langford mentioned, "Most of houses," a building projectionthe passage of an amendment owned by these private investors," dwellings. South Bend is zone A and thereby which might answer Notre Dame's which will significantly affect the he said. "We could see that they Langford further believes that a affected by the amendment. But off-campus housing problems in availability of off-campus student were buying up large amounts of side effect of this "hotly contested there are parts of the city which the future. housing. property and renting to students, issue" is the organization of 
~----~iNlMA--y7i 

______l

Passed last spring by a 6 to 2 but since many of these investors pressure groups which will remedy vote, the amendment to the city were from outside South Bend, the injustices that many off­zoning ordinance applies to they felt no sense of responsibility campus students have had to Idistricts labeled "A" which are to the community. Once the suffer from some landlords. 
I Patron Cards 1
highly residential. The new clause property got too bad, they would "This amendment indirectly so defines the term "family" as to simply forfeit the property, gives more clout to students. We prohibit absentee landlords and to leaving the present occupants to want to work with the Common 
IAVAILABLE STARTING TODAY J
restrict the number of students pay for repairs." Council of South Bend and protectliving in a boarding house A tendency towards "redlining" student interest," he continued. situation. was also present, Langford "We know that many times the rT STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFIC, 
"This was not a move to 'get the believes. An outside bank which students get ripped off by lan­students' or 'get the University,"' was investing in property was dlords, and we will be able to 
1 . 1 1 -4 pm $s.oo 1
emphasized Jim Langford, beginniml to refuse mortgages to utilize the pressure of around eight spokesman for the group's prospective: homeowners in the to twelve goups of people to set the legislative committee. He added tfarter Heights area on the basis legal wheels in morion." 
L______}2~~~~~~x•••••.••!
that nearly 75 families affiliated the T is amendment is de endent 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
-
Need 2 Southern Cal tlx. Call Bob 
Electric typewriter in bla• WANTED carrying case misplaced In
3665. summer storage. Reward. Paul 1384. 
Need 5 tickets for Northwestern Need 5 tickets for Northwestern. 
game. Call Mike after 6 P.M. Call Mike 288-0088. 
288-0088. Lost: a turquoise fetish earring on SMC campus, great sen­
Need 2 GA tickets to MSU game, 
timental value, If found, Call Need GA tix to Purdue and Pitt Call Gary 1802. 5429. games. Call 3155. 
Desperately need as many as 50 Need ride to Columbus, Ohio and tix for Southern Cal (No JokeII) back weekend of Sept. 19. Chris Call Mary 4093. . :..:._-,'. ..··,-~'it. 4343. Garar . for rent b'f thiit''.th, call ""'-571 8 after 6P.M•. ·;· ...~ 


Wanted: 2 GA MSU tickets. Call 
277-0014Wanted 4 tix for Pitt. Call Jack 
3597. 2-ben•oo011 apartment or In· dlvidl ' rooms for rent. Close to 
Need 5 tickets for Northwestern 
cam1--. Furnished. S135ancf:$65. Michigan State tix needed. 2 or game. Call Mike after 6 P.M. utllltlt·~ included. 233-2613. more GA. Will pay S. Charlie. 288-0088. 8698. 4-bedroom, \itchen; llvln·.
Need tickets desperatly for 
room; dinir • r'lom; basement 
Purdue and Mich lgan State
Badly need 2 GA tlx for Nor­all rooms ar.d kitchen furnished. 
thwestern and Mich. State. Call games. Will pay good price. Call 
1 bathruom, ;.hower In
3650.
Mark 8651. basement; washer; dl ver; and deep fre~.>zer; equipped with security ~ystem; walking
Wanted Purdue tlx. Call Val
Need tickets: 4-USC !­distance from Notre Dame. You 
6661.
Northwestern; 1 or more­may clal after 4 P.M. Phone 23? Purdue. Please call Patty 6429. 7180. 
Needed: 2 tickets to any home Need 2 GA tix for Northwestern. Furnished apartment. 503 W.
game. Call 1038. 
Call Pat 1654. Jefferson. Duplex, 3· rooms, floor gas heat, furnished. 289­
Need 2 Purdue tlx. Call Mike 
6307 or 234-0596. Wanted: 4 tix for Northwestern, 
8106. premium price. Call Tim 8251. Whole upstairs floor, girls only.
PERSONALS 

$50 per month. 283-7579 or 233· Need two Purdue tix, Call 6974. 1329. 
Bod, Howz yer face?  Miss ya.  
Wanted: Thorsen's lecture book  Zeke.  FOR SALE  
for BIO 201. Call Joe 1393.  
NOTICES  For  sale:  used  Bundy  cornet.  
Please.  Very  badly  need  good condition.  Call  Jack 3597.  
Michigan State Vince 8933.  tickets.  Call  Need work? Good pay.  Call 277­ 
1221 Tom.  For Sale: Yamaha1972-125cc 800  
actual  mileage,  Includes  2  
Badly need 2 GA Northwestern tix. Call Don 3374.  Will  do  typing,  term  papers,  helmets. $595 or 6727.  best offer. 233­ 
manuscripts, themes,  etc.  Call  
233-8512.  
Wanted:  2 tix  to  Northwestern  Men's 10-speed, made In France.  
and 2 tix for Purdue. Will take three riders to Purdue. Mrs.  Will do typing. Experienced. Call  Call 3019, must sell.  
Hegner 288-2754.  233-8512.  
one student football ticket-all 5  
Wanted:  Part-time driver with  Quick  loans:  Morrissey  Loan  games, cah and carry. best offer takes it. Call John 8992.  
some experience in maln­tainence of cars. Good pay, flexible hours. Call 7417 or come  Fund. Up to $150. 30 days, 1 percent interest. Basement of LaFortune. M-F 11:15-12:15.  Polaroid 340 camera  with flash  
to  Student  Government  office.  SSO.  Hewlett-Packard  45  
calculator  with  leather  and  
Roommate  wanted  for  N.D.  Accurate fast typing. Donoho 232-0746.  Mrs.  travel safety cases. $250. 203 Fisher. Phone 1945.  Inquire  
apartments. Call 288-6533.  
Need 2 Michicgan State tickets. Call Mike 1438.  "But you've got to have friends" Information write: Gay Students of Notre Dame; P.O.Box 206; Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.  For Sale; Lloyd's stereo; with BSR turntable. Receiver and turntable In one unit. 259-8133 after 5 P.M.  

Need ride to Madison and back weekend of Sept. 19. Call 4672. Need 2 GA tlx MSU or Georgia Tech. Call Bob 1214.  GOT THE HALFTIME HUNGRIES? MORRISSEY FOOD SALES IS OPEN BEFORE, DURING AND AF­TJ:R THE GAME TONIGHT.. LOST AND FOUND  For sale: Stereo console {contemporary model) AM-FM radio. In good condition. S135 or best offer. Call 272-5645 after 3P.M.  
Need 7 Northwestern GA ticketsII Will pay top dollar. 288­5207.  Lost: pair of square, brown glasses between Grace and Ll~rary. Paul 1004.  For Sale: couches, etc. free delivery to casmpus. Call Mrs. Cooper after 6 P.M. or all day ~at. and Sun. 272-3004.  



Devine, Irish debut at 
B.C. tonigh 
the Eagles fr()m his safety position. Dave Almeida returns to his right halfback spot and Kelly Elias is on the left side. 
B. C. is coming off an 8-3 1974 season and has an excellent change to improve on that. The Irish are their toughest opponent, and the Eagles would have to be considered the favorites in the rest of their games. 
But the first game will be a little tougher, 'if only because the Irish have not lost an opener since 1963, and they hate to break tradition. In fact, since 1887, ND has lost only six opening games, so the Eagles have their work cut out for them. 
When you look at Devine's front four on defense, you believe it. Steve Niehaus, Jeff Weston, Ross Browner and Willie Fry make up a mammoth, but quick, line. Linebacker, earlier thought to be a weak spot, has solidified con­siderably with co-captain Jim Stock switched to left outside linebacker and tough Doug Becker on the right. Tom Eastman is at
middle guard. Mike Banks has Mark McLane, who will be teamed with Jim Browner and Russ taken over at strong safety joining Kornman tonight, fights off a would-be tackler. Luther Bradley, Tom Lopienski be snapping the ball. certainly feels the excitement. and Randy Harrison in the Because of NCAA regulations, And why not. With a game that's secondary. the Irish have been working hard got the wholeEast coast excited, it 
Offensively, Devine hopes that on their specialty teams, having is little wonder that one man the rebuilding job has been sue-been forced to use offensive and should feel it. cessful. Rick Slager will be calling defensive starters on kickoffs and the signals against the Eagles. He receiving teams. Such regull'lrs I.J'_.ppl.e''"'S s~nlJ•f will be handing off to freshman as Ed Bauer, Luther Bradley, n~ ... , ..,, ?" fullback Jim Browner, and half-Doug Becker, Al Wujciak and backs Mark McLane and Russ others have been trained for the • p d f 
Kornman. But Devine is expected specialty teams. Kick-offs are Jn ~ ue mee to use his talented reserves expected to be handled by P.at frequently, especially Terry McLaughlin, while Dave Reeve by Mike Towle Eurick, Steve Orsini and AI will attempt field goals and extra Hunter. points. Tony Brantley will punt for In the process of setting a new 
Slager will be throwing to all-the Irish. Purdue course record, Notre everything tight end Ken MacAfee. Tonight's game is the first clash Dame senior, Jim Hurt, took topThe SOP.homore from Brockton, ever between the two schools and in a cross
honors dual' country
Mass. wtll be a familiar name to . the first time in 31 years that Notre meet on which
Saturday alsothe 62,000 plus fans that will jam Dame has played in New England featured the host BoilermakersShaefer Stadium tonight. Ted (1944, a 64-o victory over Dart-and Illinois State. As a team, theBurgmeier is at split end. mouth at Fenway Park in Boston). 
Irish harriers edged outlliinoisThe offensive line has Ed Bauer It is also the first appearance of State, 28-29 while at the same theyand Pat Pohlen at tackles, with AI new coach Dan Devine at the lost to Purdue by a 26-32 count.
Wujciak and Ernie Hughes at the controls for the Irish. He says he guard positions. Steve Quehl will does not feel pressure, but he Hurt, captain of the 1975 edition 
of the Notre Dame cross country
Rick Slager==~==========:=============:===========:====================:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=::::===:=========· team, ran the five-mile course in a time of 24:53 to finish ahead of his nearest competitor by eight seconds. Irish freshman Steve
N.D. football revisited Welsh finished a strong third while 
teammate Dennis Vanderkraats, also a freshman, ran fast enough to come home in seventh. 
~hat is J";;otrt: Dame f?Otball? This is a question which at one pomt and time m . our· hves we will undoubtedly either ask or be 
···········~··
There/Sa •.

asked. To many it is 11 men on offense, 11 men on defense with . ---.. 
twice ~s many gold-helmeted gladiators sitting on the side waiting : difference!!! ~ for thetr turn to be swept off the bench and into the arena. 
:,.,.f/tf1011: •
•

It is a question with as many answers as alumni, for everyon~ st:es it in hi~ o~~ light. To the e~gineer, it i.s a finely tuned machine • MCAT OvtrlSytlfl •
• ft1 ollllllfitnce : 

~tth each mdlVldual part playmg a major function towards the 
• D.... ..SIICCHS •

fmal product. To the business major it may be a large corporation 
seeking.maximum utility through minimum expense. To the pre­: ..........~...-: 
mede~, 1t may be. a gia!lt poly~er consisting of hundreds of sigma : LSAT Vohllft~ROUS heme : an~ pt bonds whtch wtll or wtll not brea~ when meeting the op­posmg ~lymer. To the. a~ts and letters student it may be a poem or : GRE ••udr:'lfi•l• :. song or ptece of art deptchng beauty and oneness, while to the math 
: ATf'SB '-'"'~··Iff •

major it is a mathematical formula. • " 1a cOII•'"'u' ..,..," • But no matter who it is answering the question, it is an answer • • one should be proud to give. For it is an answer filled with • OCAT ,.,. IKthlles lor : 
e ft¥11WI Of CIIIS e

tradition, legions and hero's1Because of this great history many of • cnaT 
lessonund for Ult. 

us have a tendency to fall back on the past when referring to Notre : rftI of IU,.,~IMIIIIIY • Dame football. For instance, the teams of 1966 and 1973 two of the more recent national champions. I must admit, that I fo~one was a : FLEX ftllltr~·· ! 
MHe-upsfor

victim of this idolizing or hero worship until Father Hesburg spoke • to the.team last wt:;ek. His words were not only of wisdom but also : ECFMG "'"se4 '"""' : expenence. He satd that "Notre 'Dame football is what we (as a team and student body) make it." It's,not the year before 'or the ! SAT ; year before that or any year in the future, it's what we make it 
today. · i NAT'L MED IDS ! 
Let's all come together in '75 and make Notre Dame football •••••••••••
e Moll cll-1 IIIII 8 -kl e
great. 
e prtor to EX1m e 
e Spring a. Ftll compecll e

••................•...........••••.•....•............•.......•.••• 
• Some courNI offer~ on •

.:· .. • M110r Campu•a • · CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS .. e e
TEST DATES e MCAT 9-75 NMB'S 6-76 e : 10.75 1·76

vs. DALLAS HAWKS OAT ECFMG : 
e LSAT 10.75 FLEX 12-75 e e GRE 10.75 OCAT 11·75 e e ATGSB 11·75 CPAT 9-75 •

~SAT. SEPT. 20th 7:30P.M. 
e SAT 11·75 VAT 12·75 e :NOTRE DAME ACC 
• INDIANAPOLIS 
e 
: 61520 Grftnlhire Drive : e lnditnlpolia, Ind. 48220 e • 13171 ..2·12tl7 •

PRICES ••••••••••• 
e CHICAGO CENTER e : Adults..........$3.50 • 13121 7t4-5151 • 
:' Youths(16 yrs. & under) 
• also ND & SMC students 

i=ti1· : 
..........$2.00 • • 
. 
: EDUCATIONAl CENTEII e Tickets on sale at . ACC 9-5 MON.-Sat. 
.• • -----,........J"..
. .• ,,,,..... . 
• at8"'<.... ;,. ....... V$ c.,...

-~·······························································• 
the observer MonUy...s.a~.v. 1975 
by Bill Brink Sports Editor 

1be last time anyone so famous and notable traveled to Massachusettes was when the Pilgrims landed at Plymouth Rock. 
In a move roughly equivalent to 'he second coming, The Fighting . ·ish of Notre Dame have arrived 
t. play the Boston College Eagles to. ·ight at 9:05 (EDT) in Foxboro, Maes. 
This is the game that has had the East coast talking, and waiting excitedly, for two years now; the game that was switched from Saturday afternoon to Monday night for the benefit of national TV; the game that the New England papers have built up higher than Bunker Hill. 
-"We've been hearing reports from a lot of people about the 'xcitement this game has created Jn the East," says new head coach Dan Devine. "And any time a game causes this much en­thusiasm ·and ant5cipation it reinforces the popularity of college football. From a personal stand­point it's a great way to return to tile collegiate ranks and especially to get our program underway here at •rotr~ame." .
1t doesn t sound like a contest W\lrthy of all the publicity. Notre Dame--granted, a traditional power. But Boston College? A New England football team? On national television yet? It must be a promotional game where both schools make big dollars. 
Indeed, they will do that._ But the 
game is more than just promotion, 
much more. B. C. has been at­
tempting to build it's football 
program for several years now, 
and the efforts are being rewar­
ded. Joe Yukica's Eagles are 
good, ranked in the top twenty by 
several polls. 

"Our coaching staff and players 
are alert to the fact that B. C. is a 
team with experience, talent and 
motivation,"said Devine, "and I 
can tell you all of us have a healthy 
respect for Joe Yukica's team." You don't have to look far to find out why, in fact only to B. C.'s final six games of last year. The Eagles won them all, outscoring their opponents 'l1Q-'l1. Twenty-four lettermen return, including .thirteen starters. And they are 
ready. 
"We have worked to our 
Ultimate,"said coach Yukica, "but 
we are going to work some more." 
The primary weapon they have 
to work with is a seasoned, skilled 
offense, one 1that) returns its entire 
starting backfield. It is led by 
quarterback Mike Kruczek, who 
completed an amazing 68.8 per 
cent of his passes last year. His 
favorite receiver is Dave Zum­
back, who is rapidly closing in on 
the all-time B. C. receiving mark. 
Zumback bruised his knee in 
scrimmage last week, but is listed 
as a likely starter. 
Running for the Eagles will be 
fullback Keith Barnette, who led 
the nation in scoring last year 
while gaining over 1,000 yards. 
Earl Strong averaged over five 
yards per carry last season and 
will be at halfback. The offensive 
line averages over 2,55 lbs. and is 
led by center Don Macek and 
guard ~teve Schindler. 
Another plus-for Yukica's of­
fensive attack is their placekicker, 
Fred· Steinfort. The Brighton, 
Mass. native was nine of fifteen on 
field goals last season, including 
five of fifty yards or more. 
Defensively, only one lineman 
graduated for B. C. last year. 
Tackle Pete Cronan returns to lead 
it this year along with Byron 
Hemingway, Chuck Morris and 
Bob Moore. The linebacker 
positions have been shored up by a 
tran~lant; Bob Watts, a former 
tight end , moves to outside 
lfnebacker. lie is joined by Rich 
Scudellari and Kevin Cunniff. This 
position has the least experience of 
any area on the squad. 
In the defensive secondary, 
sophomore Paul MurJ>hY anchors 


Steve Niehaus, mainstay of the Irish defense, will run into the tough Boston College offense tonight at Foxboro. 
ROCCOS 
BARBERS & HAIRSTYLISTS 
*RAZOR CUT *SCISSOR CUT *PERMANENTS 3 CHAIRS MAKE AN APPOINTMENT OR JUST DROP BY! ROFFLER PRODUCTS 
531 N. MichiQan 233 -4957 









