
A proposal regarding a slight limitation onby Mary Janca the number of campaign posters alsoSt. Mary's Editor 
received passage. Garrett noted that during past elections, signs filled the first floor ofSt. Mary's Student Assembly last night approved LeMans, she "prime
several Plection reforms, proposed that the bookstore which labelled as 
territory for candidates to catch the student's rpmain open for an extra two hours during the first eyes."
three dass days of the semester. and allocated a $1000 supplemPnt to the graduation budget to help defray She also commented, though, that the costs of the cocktail party. posters created problems with the 
Election Commissioner Katie Kearney proposed housekeeping staff, and that area. as well as several revisions to the present election rules. All being a "prime territory" is also the location n•visions are effective immediately. of most administrative offices. 
Concerning the reformation of election rules, Kearney Consequently, the Assembly limited the proposed that LeMans Hall be the only site where number of posters that a candidate can balloting for all school and class elections are held. display on the first floor of LeMans to two, t<:ll•ctions for hall officers and Student Assembly t•ach of which could be no larger than stan­rPpresentatives will remain in the halls. dard posterboard size. Anywhere else on 
Kt>arney recalled previous elections this year which campus. said Garrett. "is a free for all." wpre invalidated because the polling places were not Garrett argued that the dining hall should be allowed manned. as the primary reason for the revision. The Assembly also agreed to eliminate from the to offer at least one meat dish for non-Catholics and non­The Assembly also passed a proposal that prohibits ballots. the box marked "no", which follows the can­practicing Catholics. If SAGA did so, "this puts theposting the numerical results of an election. "I believe didate's name. Garrett and Kearney stated that it only responsibility of the individual consciences where itelection results should be posted, but not the numbers served to "confuse people." 
truly belongs," she commented.
hv which a candidate won or lost an election," said In the case of an uncontested election, the "no" box KParney. "That only adds insult to injury." will be left on the ballot, "as an option". This would Bookstore hours extension
Should a candidate want to know the numerical allow a student to vote against a candidate running outcome of the election, however, Kearney stated that unopposed." 
Because of the long lines at the bookstore during theshe could contact the election commissioner to find out "However, when we have more than one candidate for first three class days of each semester, the Assemblythe statistics. the same position, it is obvious that by voting for one unanimously approved a proposal to extend the"W1• <student government> shouldn't have to tell the candidate, you're voting against the others," continued bookstore hours on those days. The SMC bookstore isPntire student body how much a candidate lost by, nor <;arrett. 
eurrently open from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Theshould that information have to be published for general Similarly. the Assembly voted to eliminate a box with proposal. if approved by the Student Affairs Committee consumption," commented Legislative Commissioner a check mark in it, following a write-in candidate's and Student Affairs Council, will keep the bookstore.Joanne Garrett. namt•. 
open until 6:30 on the first three days of the semester.
A third reform approved by the Assembly allows any l<'inally, the number of times election results must be Also unanimously passed last night was a proposal tocandidate who receives 50 per cent plus 1of the votes in rounted was changed. Previous rules called for two install ashtrays into the walls of the halls recentlya primary election to be declared the winner of that rounts of the ballots. According to last night's proposal, earpeted.
post. the number of recounts will be decided by the election The ashtrays would serve to save the carpeting from commission chairman. 
wear and tear, and will also prevent the possibility ofCandidates on tickets only 
"If the election is close, ballots can be counted more 
starting a fire, should a cigarette be accidentally thrown 
than twice, while if on the first count, one candidate is 
onto the carpet.
Assembly members, after some debate, passed a ahead by 500 votes, the election commissioner may The Assembly also allocated a $1000 supplement to theproposal requiring that candidates running for a class rlt>cide a recount is unnecessary," said Garrett. 
graduation budget, to help defray the costs of theposition must run on a ticket of four. with one candidate cocktail party. Among reasons for the allotment, saidfor Pach post. l\1t>at on Lenten Fridays Senior Class President Carol Collins, are: an increaseAecording to Garrett, "candidates now are nominated in the number of invitations per student from 5 to 8 with st•parately, and are voted for separately, but still In other action. the Assembly proposed and passed a the outdoor graduation, and the rising costs, par­campaign as a ticket. As a result, it makes sense to be motion that SAGA serve at least one meat dish on the ticularly of liquor.
\·ott>d into office together on a ticket." n•maining Fridays of Lent. 
Collins stated that the cost of past graduation cocktail "This move makes for a more cohesive government. Presently, the food service serves only meatless parties ranged between $2400 and $2800. Seniors, sheThe officers must be able to work together and bring dishes on Lenten Fridays. According to Garrett, the eontinued. have between $1400 and $1600 with which tounity to the dass. They can't do this if they don't know rl1•cision to do so was "purely administrative," and finance the party, and class fund-raising activities willl'achother,"Kearney said. ram(' following a statement from the Bishop of the Fort mainly be directed towards the class' gift to the school. 
(;arrt>U noted that this action "puts the classes in a \\"<lVnP-South Bend Diocese that all Catholics in the ln addition, she said, last year's seniors received $750 parall~:>l situation with the hall governments as far as diocese were not allowed to eat meat on the Fridays of from the Assembly.
l'!ections go." l.('nt. 
Sopho:more Literary Festival draws to successful conclusion on Saturday 
by Fred Graver Tillie Olsen prefaced her Thursday night reading with "reflec­Editorial Editor 
tions on the community," triggered by her thoughts after reading an article on the Festival in Thursday's Observer. 
Thursday, March 6 marked a turning point for this year's 
''Writers don't have to be in the same room for us to feel a senseSophomore Literary Festival. With the arrival of Tillie Olsen and of community" she began. "I began to feel a spirit of communityMichael Hyan. joining James T. Farrell, John Logan and John from the first letter I received from Chris Mahon <chairman of thisI .ogan Jr., a spirit of rejoicing in the vibrancy of literature began to year's Festivall inviting me to attend." 
resonate from the Festival. 
''There is an ongoing community, an always present community As Tillie Olsen said in the opening remarks for Thursday's 
of writers and readers," she continued. "If there are no writers, night reading, "Being in the same room with three generations of there are no readers; and if there are no readers there are no writers makes me aware of the ongoing process of literature, gives writers." me a sense of ancestors and descendants, of the ongoing con­Mrs. Olsen expanded her "reflections" on the community of the tributions to literature." Literary Festival to include the entire University community. She 
discussed a walk she had taken that day around the campus, in which she had become familiarized with the history of the llniversity. Her remarks carried a sense of wonder at the majesty of life's achievements, especially those achievements which come 
Thursday was highlighted by Michael Ryan's reading, Tillie in small and often unnoticed forms. "What's called Olsen's reading and a reception at the home of Prof. Ernest San­Jamesian subtlety happens to all of us," she remarked. deen of the English department. Tillie Olsen began with a short reading from the recently 
Ryan opened by reading some of Prof. Sandeen's poetry. He published "Yonnondio," a scene in which an ailing mother goes for tempered his presentation with a fine sense of the community a walk with her children to a burnt-down house in a lot by a river. ·t..~~ which the Sophomore Literary Festival had been working to attain. There. she experiences a "balooning" sensation in her head, and Ryan, Notre Dame Class of '68, acknowledged with enthusiasm the her oldest daughter sees "the other look on her mother's face, a presence of the other authors present at the Festival by calling the look she never saw again. The story is reminiscent in technique to 
D:llserver lnsiCJht 
event "Literary Giants of the Twentieth Century and One Pip­.Joycean "epiphany." squeak Alumnus." Mrs. Olsen then took off her shoes, leaned into the microphone Ryan began reading of his own poetry with a piece entitled and settled in for the lengthy reading of her short story "Tell Me a 
"':\,. 
) 

"Hitting Fungos," which concerns a fantasy about playing baseball Hiddle." The reading left the audience emotionally, if not with kids in a field, being chased for vagrancy, and attempting to physically. drained. legitimize his presence by waving a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship Following the reading, a reception was held in the home of Prof. letter in the face of the approaching police. Ernest Sandeen. attended by students and faculty members. 
After this "remotely. humorous poem," Ryan went on to read There. Mrs. Olsen delighted in visiting with James T. Farrell, and extensively from his volume Threats Instead of Trees, recently the two spoke to each other for some time. John Logan visited with awarded the Yale Series of Younger Poets Award. Highlights of many of his old acquaintances from the years when he had been a the reading were two "Father" poems and a series of recent poems teacher at Notre Dame, while his son stood in a corner with several 
Robert Bly (Photo by Andy Waterhouse) which he called "formal experiments." students discussing "the blues." ( ti d l) 
. con nue ro page 


Monday, March 10, l975
the observer 
world briefs 
MEXICO CITY <UPil 
Former President Jose 
Figueres of Costa Rica said in a 
televised interview broadcast 
Sunday that he worked for the 
l'.S. CentraI Intelligence 
Agt>ncy in "20,000 ways" since 
it was foundt>d. 
.lit> said ht> believed other 
Latin American presidents 
have also done so but d·id not 
nwntion any names. 
.JEHliSALF.M <liP() Secrt>tary of State Henry Kissingl'r arrivt>d in Israel Sunday and dt>livt>red Egyp­
tian ideas on a second stage pt>act> agrt>t>mt>nt to lsrat'li lt>adt•rs aftt'r mt>t>ting continut>d opposition from Syria on tht' way. 
ST. LOl'IS, Mo. (l'PII -A strikt' hy 1!1,000 machinists at i\lcllonr;t>ll Douglas Corp. plants in St. Louis, California. and Florida t>ntt>rt>d its second month Monday with little progrt>ss in nt>gotiations. 
an campus today 
3:30 pm coloquium, "apologetics as a contemporary possibility" by oliver wllleams, lib. lounge. 4:30p 
4:30 pm ·· lecture, "electron localization In dense polar vapors" by joshua jertner, 123 n.s.h. 7 pm --meeting, psychology society, room 224, haggar hall. 7:30pm--lecture,l "our water­based resources--their recreation potential" by william walters, carroll hall. 
7:30 
& 10 pm--movie, airport, eng. aud. $1. 

7:30 
pm --lecture, "bilingual alternltlves" by roberto eruz, lib. aud. 8 pm --lecture, "the night of terror" by radu florescu, wash. hall. 8 pm --panel discussion, "the moral role of the university" with peri arnold, fr. james burtchaell, stanley hauerwas, and robert rodes, galvin life science center aud. 8 pm lecture, "sivlet­amerlcan relations: looking ahead" by robert f. brynes, 1201 memorial lib. 8 pm .. travelougue series, "england, scotland and wales" be ted bumlller, o'laughlin aud. 


5:30 pm --meeting, circle k faculty dining room, south 
Macheca tells of added security on the campus 
llPan of Students John Macheca statPd yesterday that security has i>PPn increased following an at­tPmpted rape near the Ad­ministration building last week. 
llowPver Macheca declined to giw out specifics concerning the 1ncrease when contacted yester­day. "That would tend to defeat thP purpose of increasing patrols," h1• said. "If someone were really up to no good they would be able to ldPntify who the security guards an•. and know where they are going to be and at what times." 
liP concluded by emphasizing that the patrols have been in­rreased. and are concerned with those areas and hours where and whPn these things have occurred before. He said security is doing its best to protect those who would be potential victims. 
The Obwrnr is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the students ot the University of Notre Dame .nd St. AMry's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor S9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box· Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana •6556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. •6556. 
Legal Association 
ND Service offers free legal aid 
.. 
Editor's Note: This is the second by Tom Husso Association. Already a wide l'nivt•rsity Ht>ft>rals of a three-part series about Staff Rt>portt>r spectrum of people including "Actuallv. the name is Judicial proceedings and the Legal The LPgal Aid and Defender students, farm workers, prisoners misleading,;' commented Aid and Defender Association. Association. run by students of the and the working poor, can come to KPIIPnburg. "Originally the This article capsulizes the whole Notre Dame Law School, is a large I ,pgal Aid for help. division mPrely referred students
St>vt>n divisions
structure of the Association and organization comprising seven to the places where legal help was features the University Referals divisions designed to serve the The seven divisions of the available." Now, of course, the division. The third part to be legal needs of people who cannot program are: divison provides that help itself. 
published in Wednesday's paper afford to pay lawyer's fees. 1) University Heferals. which "If a student needs help", said 
discusses the other six divisions of "We are presently in a re­deals with the legal problems of Division Director Joe Cassini, "the the Association which pertain to building program to serve more both graduate and undergraduate hPst way to contact us is to call us the legal aid available to the pt>ople", stated Willie Lipscomb, students of Notre Dame and St. first at .283-7795 and make an ap­
1\lary's.
community at large. 1•xecutive director of the pointmPnt for the next day." The 
2) Cass County Program. Ap­n•ason for this. hP explained, isproximately two dozen Jaw the division presently
Airlift of trapped crew that "is
students work as interns to the undt•rstaffed. and we can't set up
lawyers of Cass County, 
n•gular hours, although we'd like Michigan. In general the to." A student ran come in and
begins in Antarctic seas 
studPnts handle both criminal and leave a notP-if he does not call.
BllENOS AIRES WPil which has been maintaining radio l'ivil cases of "indigent persons." 
Financial limitations
lll'!icopters brought the first rontact with the Glacier said the lkeause of Michigan's Jaws, both <-rewmPn from the U.S. icebreaker ruttPr moved a quarter of a mile sPcond and third year students There are limitations as to who is (;lacier. trapped in thick antarctic Saturday in its attempt to reach a can. if under the su-pervision of a digihll' for aid. "A student must ieP. to an Argentine air base rrack two miles away in the Wedell 1\lichigan lawyer. rPpresent clients not have more than $1,500 in net Sunday. an Argentine air forces SPa icefield. The fissure leads to in court. 1Indiana permits only asspts. such as bank accounts. spokesman said. the opPn sea. third ~·ear students to do this. l sto(·ks. bonds. or automobile." 
The spokesman said the U.S. The (;lacier became trapped last :n Labor Division aids mainly l'assini I'Xplained. Furthermore. helicopters brought the crewmen WPdnesday while en route to help migrant workers in the Berrien th1• studPnt cannot receive more and scientists to the air field at Rio an Argentine cutter frozen in the Springs, Michigan area, but is month in income (;allegos. some 600 miles south of icP field. the U.S. Coast Guard said Pxpanding to include the problems from any source. Money to be put BLwnos Aires. Saturday. of the working poor in other toward tuition is not included in 
HP said an Air Force jet would It said one of the glacier's two communities. that $1,500 ceiling. nor is parental bring the men from Rio Gallegos to six-ton blades sheared off and 4) Post-Conviction RemPdies. mrom1' a factor. "If a student is the Argentine capital later. hecamP WPdged in the freezing ice Inmates at the Indiana State married. there is $150 
"The crewmen coming in were flow. The long winter of the South Prison at Michigan City and two dt>duction for each dependent", he airlifted by U.S. helicopters from l'ole is dosing in and unless the other institutions are informed of l'ontinued. the base Sunday morning," he <ilacier can be freed soon, it will be their legal rights and interviewed Th1• financial limitations im­said. frozen in the ice until spring by law students if the prisoners posed on the program's clients in 
"Because of their size, the arrives next November. wish to appeal their convictions or all the seven divisions are set helicopters can only take a few The (;lacier carried a crew of sentences. hPcausP Legal Aid is primarily an men at a time," the spokesman 211, Pight civilian scientists and 5) Community Services, Provide organization to serve those who said. three naval sea cadets, high school legal aid. research and advice to l'annot afford a lawyer. According to radio reports ~-ouths from California. poor people in the South Bend area. "Fee-generating cases," ex­received by the Coast (iuard in The 8,449-ton. 309-foot Glacier (i) Prosecutors' Division. plain<'d Cass County Director Jack Long Beach, Calif., the personnel rarries Pnough food. fuel and other SP\'eral students work as interns at <;arbo. "are supposed to be still aboard the Glacier are safe supplies to see the stranded crew tht> St. .Joseph County Prosecutor's rl'fprrPd to the local Bar and in good spirits. through the long Antarctic winter Office in South Bend. In general Association to which we are 
"The ice is fantastic," said Keith if nPcessary. The Coast Guard lhPy screen and give legal help to ht>holding." The Lawyer HPferals Courson. 14, of San Gabriel, Calif., said all but 90 crewmen who pPoplt• who come to the SPrvil'l' will then recommend who with his brother, Douglas, 16, 1·olunteered to stay aboard as long Prosecutor's Office because they st>\'Pral lawvPrs to dients. 
are two of the cadets aboard. "I as necessary would be airlifted know of nowhere Pise to turn. \\'(• dl•al mostly with landlord­
would like to stay down there." from the ship. i) Litigation Division. Most of l!'llant prohlt>ms. traffic offense The other cadet. Hichard Barili, An Argentine 0130 is scheduled to th1• cases handled by Legal Aid are l'aS!'S. and somP contract cases," Hi, of Pasadena, Calif., said, "Im land at a nearby island Monday to st>ttlt>d out of court. Should a <'assini noted. Drunken driving having a lot of fun." assist in Pvacuation if the Glacier rase in any other division become and spPt>ding an• common. 'If a The Coast Guard at Long Branch has to "winter in." involvPd <;nough to require court studPnt has a good record with no action. this division prepares the ronvil'!ions". said ('assini. "we trv rasP for court appearances. to gl'! thP pPnaltiPs rPduced". · 
In addition to these divisions. a Antotht>r m1•mlwr of LPgal Aid Program Co-ordinator arranges notPd that " a number of cases" for spPakers to deliver seminars l'Oill'Prn prP-mPd students charged and manages the funding, such as ,,.,th drunkPn activities. 
SEC head to speak 
at Finance F orurn 
grants. for the Association. "OrJP of our main problems The fifteenth annual Finance campus. Through their ability, The Faculty Advisor to the now". said !'assini. "is that we are 
Forum sponsored by the Finance these men will present their views Association.· Prof. Conrad undt•r staffPd. Hight now thereare Club of Notre Dame will feature and relate professional business K!'llt>nberg of the I .aw School has two or thrPP othPrs who work full­five experts in the fields of theory with academics." pro\·idt>d "a great deal of moral tim!' 115-20 hrs. per week) with 
business and economics including Willard noted that the individual support to the organizaion". ac­1111' 
A.A. Sommer, Jr., commissioner lectures were scheduled during rording to Lipscomb. "He is llni\'Prsity Referals is available of the Securities and Exchange class hours to provide the op­alwavs there if we need him and to anv studPnt who fulfills the Commission, Tuesday, March 11 portunity for all interested ronstantly gives us his advice and n•quirPmPnts for any kind of legal 
and Wednesday, March 12. business students to attend the l'OltnSPiing.
his ht>lp."( Hher notable guests of the Forum. Forum on Tuesday include: The sechedule of speakers, time, Robert Dederick, senior vice­place and topic is as follows: president and economist of the Tuesday: Robert Dederick, Northern Trust Company and Karl "The American Economy -Scheid, senior vice-president and Problems and Prospects," 122 director of research for the Hayes-Healy, 9:30a.m. Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. Karl Scheid, "The Challenge for Warren Lebeck, president of the Monetary Policy," 122 Hayes­
Chicago Board of Trade and Healy, 11:00 a.m. Thomas Murphy, professor of A.A. Sommer, "The Emerging Finance and Business Ad­Markets for Securities," Memorial 
ministration at Notre Dame are Library Auditorium, 2:45 p.m. scheduled to speak at Wednesday's Wednesday: Warren Lebeck, Forum. "Incentives -The Answer to the 
The purpose of the Forum, ac­world Food Problem," 122 Hayes­cording to its chairman Jim Healy, 11:45 a.m. Willard is "to bring distinguished Thomas Murphy, "A Look at the speakers in the fields of finance Stock Market Today," 122 Hayes­and business economy to the Healy, 2:15p.m. 
Come to the St. Patty's Day Warm-up at 
Louie's 
(a clean and well lighted place) 
5 p.m. to 9 p.m. Mon. thru Thurs. Special on Pints 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
I
Monday, March 10, 1975 the observer 3 
With poetry and song 1 
Ferlinghetti presentation closes festival 1 
by Hoht•rt Jacques 
Staff Reporter 
Lawrence Ferlinghetti, poet, novelist. and playwright, presented ~aturday a reading of a variety of his poetry to an overflowing audience in the library auditorium. 
His presentation marked the end of the Sophomore Literary Festival. 
Ferlinghetti began the evening by singing three poems, two from the "Songs of Experience" and one from the "Songs of Innocence" by Blake. to music which he played on his autoharp. The last line of the ''Nurse's Song" and "And all the hills echoed' was repeated several times in the form of a song which the audience participated in along with Ferlinghetti. 
Ferlinghetti then read from his own works. beginning with a poem on the topic of underwear. Other poems read concerned themselves with love and the mountains of South America. 
Many of his subjects come from Ferlinghetti's own experiences. One such poem concerned itself with a large bus he travelled on ghe outskirts of Moscow which played the music of Seggovia over the radio. 
Ferlinghetti then presented four poems from a 1974 collection en­titled "New Directions." The works included "The Astonishing Art," "In Time of Revolution, For Instance," "Elegy on the Death of Kenneth Patchin," and "Baseball Cantos." The first two are what he ealled "Restaurant poems". Composed in restaurants, they are about the people he saw dining in them. 
San Francisco was the scene of the rise of the rebirth of the oral poetic tradition. A large number of his poems deal with the city or places in it. One of his collections of poetry, "Starting from San Francisco." reflects the large role the city plays in his writings. 
Ferlinghetti presented several works from unpublished collection of poetry' which, he said, would probably be entitled "Tropic of Frisco," reflecting the importance once again flf the west coast city. He presented "The Heavy," "The Highway Patrol," and "Dissidents." 

a few moments he reflected upon the history of American poetry, citing the important figures in it. The most influencial of modern times was, according to Ferlinghetti, Robert Bly. Bly was a guest of the Festival Friday evening. 
The captivated audience responded to the conclusion of the two-hour presentation with a lengthy, standing ovation. 
Last day for bids 
Senior Formal bids may be picked up today at the Morissey Loan Fund Office in the basement of La Fortune between 10 am. and 5 
p.m. Today is the last day to pick lawrence Ferlinghetti (Photo by Andy Waterhouse) 
up tickets. 
Festival ends on successful note 
(continued from page 1) 
On that Thursday evening, owing to the presence ofthe authors and the overwhelming spirit of all those involved in the Festival, the 
"community spirit" took root. The rest of tne week was a joy. 
It was obvious from that point on that the authors were more than happy to be present at Notre Dame for the Festival. They were glad to be in the presence of the sophomores. who had worked for this moment. they were glad to be in the presence of the other authors. As a whole, the Festival had begun to address itself to the universe of literature, recognizing itself as a small but powerful eorner of that universe. 
The most remarkable aspect of the Festival in the remainder of the week, from Thursday to Saturday, was the resonating eharacteristic of the proceedings. Each statement made. each !'motion expressed, each name mPntioned inconversation or quote pxchanged in discussion rPsonated; it vibrated in the highly eharged atmosphere of the FPstival and. more often that not. gave off more excitement in that atmosphere than the speaker could have ever imagined. 
On Friday evening, Robert Bly stepped up to the stage in the Library Auditorium and con­m•eted with the positive energy there. His dynamic presentation was one of the biggest highlights of the Festival for those who had watched it from the beginning. 
It would be impossible here to Pxpress with the same illumination the intense points of Bly's reading. His exuberance. the instant rap­port he established with the audience. his energetic renditions, the highly-charged recitations marked by finely honed movements of his hands and body: all of these gave the reading a sense of moment. and presence that were so intense that they are difficult to recreate here. 
As Bly said. "No one knows what a poetry reading sounds like ... what a poetry reading is." He was speaking of the fact that no one really knows what the first poetry readings, those of Virgil or Homer, sounded like. So it is here. 
Robert Bly began by playing a tune on his dulcimer, a hill song from the South filled with good humor. He then recited a poem by Anthony Machado, which he followed with remarks on the difficulties of publishing tran­slations of Spanish poets. 
For the most part, Bly recited the poetry in Friday's reading from memory, something that he remarked upon during a seminar Saturday afternoon. "If you really want to know a poem ... make it part of your life ... then you should memorize it, put it in your gut," he told the audience. 
Bly went on to directly challenge the audience, through a long discussion on daydreaming. 
"Daydreaming is passive." he called to the audience. "Why should I be the active one here?" Remarking on the fact that Western man is ad­dicted to daydreaming, he asked the audience to supply him with a link between daydreaming and eapitalism. "Daydreaming drains you." he said, going on to show how poeple daydream and miss those things that are happening around them. 
Bly's use of masks 
Another highlight of Bly's reading was his use of masks. "What is the poem?" he asked. "If the poet mis-relates--if the poet masks--the poem is ridiculous." The masks. as Bly used them, Pmphasized and drew out the Pssence of the poetry as he recited it. The first mask, somewhat resembling a pig, was used as he recited two poems about living with animals. 
The second mask captured a 
spirit of ugliness. not in the sense 
of grotesque ugliness but everyday 
ugliness. the ugliness that emits 
from an everyday evil. "This is 
what Henry Kissinger looks like 
inside." he said. Wearing this 
mask. Bly recited a poem entitled 
"Counting Small Warm Bodies," 
an anti-war poem. 
Bly followed this terrifying mask 
with the Beast mask from Coc­
teau's ''Beauty and the Beast." 
The audience was fully prepared to 
meet with even more fearful 
recitations than with the last 
mask, but Bly counteracted with a 
humorous rendering of "Hail to 
Thee, Blithe Spirit." He then 
parodied the Campbell's Soup 
commercials and recited "The 
Busy Man Speaks." 
For many, Bly's reading was one 
of the most drama tic and 
memorable in Festival history. 
The reading was followed by a 
reception in the University Club. 
Ferlinghetti at Saturday seminar 
The final day of the Festival 
featured a seminar on Poetry 
conducted by Robert Bly and 
Lawrence Ferlinghetti, a reading 
by "the Juggler poets," 
Ferlinghetti's reading and a 
reception at the home of Dr. Ed­
ward Vasta. 
Saturday afternoon's seminar 
with Ferlinghetti and Bly covered 
a diverse range of topics, from 
daydreaming to the strength of the 
media as an element of "ingesting 
society's most dissident elements" 
to the influence of psychedelics in 
the sixties to the poetry of Iran and Persia. 
The seminar was characterized by a feeling of community, a sense of openness. The room was full of people speaking out, challenging t>ach other's ideas and delighting in the product of the union of many minds. As one student commented upon leaving the seminar, "There were ten times as many people in that room as there are in my eollegiate seminar, and the discussion was ten times as intense 
and productive. How come?" 
The seminar was followed by a reading by "the Juggler poets." The reading gave the opportunity to many of the student poets to present their work "in the marketplace." Most of the poets appeared somewhat nervous and shaky. but all handled themselves with confidence and a deep sense of seriousness about their work. 
Ovt-r£low crowd for Ferlinghetti 
Saturday evening found the Library Auditorium packed, with some of the crowd overflowing into the hallway and the lounge. Lawrence Ferlinghetti had turned out to be the biggest attraction of the Festival. 
Ferlinghetti walked out onto the 
erowded stage, sat himself on a 
Persian rug. removed his boots 
and picked up his autoharp to sing 
three songs from Blake's "Songs 
of Experience." The songs were 
set to music by poet Allen Gins­
berg. The light, playful tunes 
calmed the somewhat restless 
crowd, and Ferlenghetti delighted 
them by "corning up" the second 
tune. "Sunflowers." 
On the third song, Ferlinghetti 
invited the audience to sing the last 
line as a mantra. They joined him 
in full voice, chanting "and all the 
hills echo-ed." 
He then read "a serious poem 
about underwear," and from that 
point it became evident that 
Robert Bly would have company in 
the memory of this year's Festival. 
As important as the poems 
themselves were Ferlinghetti 's 
surrounding remarks. Before a set 
of "Restaurant Poems," he stated, 
"Every person who walks 
by is a walking poem. You've got 
to realize that." 
He spoke about the atmosphere 
of boredom that surrounds a hotel, 
restaurant or bus station. 
"Sometimes it just gets so 
boring," he said, "that the only 
thing left is to write a poem. 
Poetry really is the last resort, it 
really does save your life 
sometimes." . 
Ferlinghetti read from his book 
Open Eye, Open Heart, featuring 
"Elegy on the Death of Kenneth 
Patchen" ("I stand up for that 
man," he said and he did), 
"Baseball Canto" and "Pound at Spoleto." He then read from a book he is currently working on, ten­tatively titled Topic of Frisco. Among these poems were "The Great American Waterfront Poem" and a "public surface poem" entitled "The Highway 
PatroL': 
After a brief intermission, Ferlinghetti read five more poems, concluding with "The Populist Manifesto," a poem dedicated to the elusive spirit of poets such as Carl Sandburg, Walt Whitman and Robert Frost. "Poetry isn't a secret society," he urged. Asking the poets of the people to come out of their hiding places, the poem concluded, "Awake, and walk in the open air." 
There were no better words with which to formally close the 1975 Sophomore Literary Festival. It had fulfileld its purpose, in that the spirit of the literary community had become instilled in the souls of those involved in the Festival. The eyes and hearts of many people in the University community had been touched and opened and the positive energy that h~d been unleashed will remain a force for some time to come. 
Bar Association receives grant 
WASHINGTON <UPI) --The 
Department announced Sunday it has granted the American Bar Association $328,000 to develop a model law to reduce corruption in government buying and save millions of taxpayer dollars. 
The project is sponsored by the Department's Law Enforcement Assistance Administration. 
ARE YOU A DOMER IN DISTRESS WITHOUT WHEELS? When In Need Of A Quick Getaway. CaiiLoisAt 
JORDAN FOR 259-1981 
STUDENT RATES: 
Rent a PINTO or MAVERICK for Just $5 Day & 5¢ /Mile (MIN. AGE 2 J) 

A.C.C. ICE RINK PRO-SHOP 
END OF THE SEASON CLEARANCE SALE 
-all hockey & figure skating equipment at discount prices 
LIMITED STOCK! 
TAKE ADVANTAGE NOW 
HRS: NOON-10 p.m. DAILY 8 a.m.-1 0 p.m. SAT. & Sun. 
" 

The Observer 
an independent student newspaper Founded November 3, 1966 Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief Bob Zogas Business Manager Bob McManus Advertising Manager 
EDrTORIAL BOARD Terrv Ke~ney, News Editor; AI Rutherford, Managing Editor; Fred Graver, Editorial Editor Jeanne Murphy, Copy Editor; Robert Baker, Features Editor; Greg Corgan, Sp?rts Ed_,tor Mary Janca. St. Mary's Editor; Chris Srnith, Photo Editor; Bill Brink, Sen1or N1ght Ed1tor Jim Eder. Ann McCarry, Pattie Cooney, Zenon Bidzinski, Marlene Zloza, Contributing Editors 
Business: 283-7471Editorials: 283-8661 News: 283-1715 
Monday, March 10, l't/5 
SLF: Spirit And Life 
The eighth Sophomore Literary Festival closed Saturday night after a week of intense and often times profound reflections. 
Joseph Brodsky, James Purdy, James Farrell, John Logan, Michael Ryan, Tillie Olsen, Robert Bly and Lawrence Ferlinghetti all look lime to share wilh us their insights into the human condition. Prodding gently or demanding eccentricly, they took us on a journey past the drudgery of midsemester and into the overwhelming questions of our existence. 
Under the direction of Festival chairman Chris Mahon some forty devoted sophomores negotiated the mechanics and the logistics of the festival. All of I his not without considerable personal cost in terms of lime, energy and disposition. Their unflagging en­thusiasm, however, resulted in the spirit and life of the 1975 festival. 
Because of their work, we have gone past the everyday academic world of the University and marvelled at ourselves and all men. Charges against lhe festival because of its expense and lack of com­munity, seem lo fall away after the wonder and ex­cilemenllhe festival produced last week. 
The Observer, along with the University com­munity, offers its grateful appreciation to the 1975 
Sophomore  Literary  Festival Committee  for  a  
festival of inestimable  worth.  
Robert Baker  


'HELLO-JIMMY THE GREEK? I WANT TO GET SOME ODDS •• .' 
DOONESBURY 

Y£5, THIS IS HE.. IIJ{()?/ SECRtTJlRY 1'1019lW?!.. IJIHATA
J 
Sf/RPRISE, SIR/ ht1IAI 6000 OF Yotl TO CAU I 
; 
" 
!WW5 7JE1'1/N/5ffK 54Kt; /11~ fY MARJJIJIINA I'M 7JILK!NG 70 IS HER£ TO liEsaR£TIIRY SEE >tll, SIR. fY 1HE IN!EI!KR! 
I /U-IJIT5)1E 
\ 
•• Dpinian Coalition Communication And Food Day
fr. dan mcneill 
I am concerned that there have been many "communication gaps" concerning the Hunger Coalition during this past 6 months. Therefore, I would like to briefly summarize the history of the Coalition and to encourage students, faculty, staff and ad­ministration to participate in the National Food Day which is planned for April 17, 1975. 
Most of us have been well aware of AI Sondej's presence since September. He has initiated concern for the hunger crisis by his presence outside the Dining Halls and his writings in The Observer. 
!<'acuity, administration, and staff in response to a program of Professors Peter Walshe, Bob Rodes, etc. have pledged part of their salary 1$13,361 from 261 persons) to the "Third World Relief Fund." Their initial efforts combined with the work of Father llt>sburgh preceded the development of the World Hunger Coaltion here at the University of Notre Dame. 
In the Fall, students from CILA. the Non-Violence Program, and other on campus encouraged the development of a coalition to l'Oordinate all of the efforts of persons concerned about world hunger. The campus ministry team agreed to let Mrs. Mary Ann Hot•mt•r work out of their office as acting director of the Coalition during the fall semester. It was through her efforts as a catalyst that the November 26th Rice and Tea supper and the excellent sermon by £<'ather Hesburgh during the late evening celebration of !\lass were shared with the ND-SMC campus. Unfortunately, there W<'re "communication-gaps" before this event and many students didn't receive the pre-Thanksgiving Observer which had com­prehensive reflections on the hunger issue. Also, the following rPsults of the Hice and Tea meal were never communicated to the studPnts: 2018 signed the pledge, 735 of these participated. 
During the Christmas vacation, Father Hesburgh appeared on many national television programs concerning the problem of world hunger and cited some of the work done at the University. llowPver. he realized that many of us here on campus had not been informPd about the critical situation of the hunger crisis and that the Coalition was in its beginning stages. 
We were fortunate to have Father Frank Gartland C. S. C. take over the directorship of the Hunger Coalition at the beginning of the second semester. By this time many other students had joined in the t•ffort of the Coalition (approximately 30). Immediate attention was given to the Anti-Hunger Day on FPbruary 2 in the ACC. Students were asked to participate in the Rice and Tea meal after this Pvent and there were more "communication gaps" concerning the financial implications of their decisions. "Gaps" continued in the conversations between the Coalition and the Observer before and after the event. All of you were unable to learn the following statistics concerning the Rice and Tea meal on February 2: 2707 signed the pledge, of these 1505 signed in at the food lines, 641 ac­tually ate the meal with 439 who did not sign the pledge. Ap­proximately $4000 was received for the two Hice and Tea meals. 
During FPbruary, the Coalition prepared an exploratory questionnaire concerning alternate diets for students during the n•st of the year. This was distributed through the community s<'r\'icP directors in the Halls and approximately 30 per cent of the studt•nts n•sponded 1ranging from n per cent Zahm and 14 per cent Alumni to 71 per cent Stanford, 57 per cent Holy Cross; 53 percent Badin I. Comments on the returned questionnaires indicated a l'Ontinuing "communication gap" concerning the long term and short tPrm action goals of the Coalition. 
\\'illiam Sloan Coffin from Yale University was with us on 
Fdmtary 26th at the invitation of thP Coalition. Coverage in the 
f lhst•rwr of his afternoon talks and t•vening sermon was very good. 
llowPver. many more students and faculty could have benefited 
from his perspective with arl\·am·pd articles and publicity (e.g. 
rPalizing how much more is being done at Yale and "Secular" 
l 'nivt>rsities with fasting. etc. than at N.D.-S.M.C. ). 
Fr. (;artland and members of the Coalition have now developed a nPw I'LEI>GK Those of you on campus will be asked to express ~·ou willingness to fast from 6 suppers on Wednesdays and, or to abstain from m(•at 12 suppers !Tuesdays and I<'ridays). There will be an article in the OhsPrn•r tomorrow to darify the PLEDGE. It is my hope that those who pledge will follow through with their 
eommitment. since the communications will be improved. 
National Food Day will be on April 17 this year. In November, more than :lOO colleges participated in a Fast. I hope that ND-SMC will join an Pven larger number of campuses this Spring. I ap­preciate the fact that the Coalition wanted to provide opportunities for more than a rla~· fast during Lent or only on Food Day. The pledge will allow us to build up to the event and follow through in a more eomprehensive way. Dick Gregory's visit on April 26th is now being planned by student task group of the Coalition to com­plete their activities this school year. 
1 am t>ncouraged by recent conversations with Ed Byrne, Tom Drape and Terry Keeney that the "communication gaps" related to the Coalition are being overcome (from both sides). I look forward to participating in a small way with many of you in our short term and long term responses to a painful Spring for millions of our brothers and sisters. 
by Garry Trudeau 
the observer 
Night Editor -· Andy Praschak Assistant Night Editor .. Marti Hogan Layout Staff .. Kathy Skiba, Martha L. Fanning, Maggie Waltman, Unl 
Day Editor ·• Bill Sohn Copy Reader .. Jeanne Murphy, Pat Hanifin Editorials --Fred Graver, John Amantea 
Sports .. Bill Brink, Greg Corgan Typists--Anne Peeler, Janet Carney, Mary Corr, Karen Hlnks, Rick Huber 
Compugraphic .. John Kuhn Picture Screener -· Albert D'Antonio Night Controllers .. M.J. Foley, Dave Rust 
·> 


Monday, March 10, 1975 
the observer 
5 
Dracula lecture to be presented 
by Hob Mader 
Staff Rl'porter 
Imagine a great war hero. praised by his subjects for his valor, who was at the same time such a master of fiendish cruelty that he once made a virtual forest out of 20,000 impaled Turks. 
This is the real Count Dracula who will be thetopicof the lecture to be given at 8:00 pm tonight in Washington Hall by Boston College History professor Radu Floresco. 
Evidence gathered be Dr. Floresco. himself of Romanian ongm. and a colleague, 
Professor Raymond McNally, shows that the legendary Dracula is mostlv a creation ofBram Stoker and Beia Lugosi. 
The two scholars tracked the vampire legend through Romania three separate times before fin­ding Dracula's castle in the mountains of Wallachia in 1969, surrounded by dense forests and 
Special prayers offered for missing paperboy 
HO\KFOIW. Ill. \UPll Worshippers at St. Bernadette's t 'hurch offered special prayers Sunday for 15-year-old Joseph llidier. an alderman's son who disappt>ared six days ago while making his daily newspaper ddivt•ries. 
"WPII. of course. we went to church today." Alderman George llidit>r said in a low, anguished ,·oice. "They prayed especially for .JO('Y. The church has even given$l.tioo to his reward fund and so has tht> Hockford newspaper. The fund's up to something like $5,000 
Engineers develop magnetic materials to monitor defects in nuclear reactors 
Nuclear reactors could be monitored for structural defects without being shut down by using 
'new magnetic materials developed hy University of Notre Dame mgineers. 
Tht> new materials are alloys of ran• parth metals and cobalt and arP IO limPs more powerful than the ferromagnetic materials, usuallv nickel. now used for sonar dt>vices. According to Dr. Albert 1-:. \\liller. Notre Dame associate professor of metallurgy and materials science, the compounds wPre developed for use in sonar but may he far more important for 
·tpplications such as non­lestructive testing of nuclear t•actors or aircraft engines. !\Iiller's research is supported by he ll.S. Office of Naval Research; he Navy wants more powerful ·onar for its surveillance of the ceans. particularly the polar ice ·ap regions. The property which akes sonar work agnetostriction --is the change in imension of a ferromagnetic body ·aused by applying a magnetic ield. The larger the dimensional hange. the more powerful the evice. Miller thinks that with new aterials of the type he is eveloping, it will be possible to roduce dimensional changes 100 mes greater than nickel's. A sonar device expands and ontracts in an alternating 
agnetic field, sending waves out rough the water which return to e device when they strike a bmerged object. An operator sn observe the resulting changes the material's magnetic operties and interpret them to termine the location, size, speed d direction of movement of the ject. From these clues, an ex­rienced operator will know hether it's a whale or a sub­arine. When used above water as a ndestructive testing tool, the me process is called "acoustic iss ion". Because the new mpounds can withstand tem­ratures as high as 1800 degrees , a bright, white heat, agnetostrictive devices could be ed to monitor a hot aircraft 
now 
H!'v. Daniel Geoghagan of St. Jll'rnadette's said the priests had hl•en offering special prayers for .Joseph at ~II three masses each day since his disappearance. They held a special mass for him on \\" Pdnesday. 
llidier said there has been no due to his son's whereabouts and a police and National Guard-led s(•arch Saturday yielded nothing. Hundreds of volunteers on standing at the top of a 300 foot precipice. 
snowmobiles and in planes par­ 
til'ipa ted. ''There  is  just  nothing,"  

The name Dracula means "son of the Devil" and is derived from his father's name, Dracul, which is the modern Romanian word for the [)(•vii. His refinement of torture was centered around the use of a stake consequently giving him the title in his own day of "Vlad the Impaler". 
Dracula's reputation has spread across several countries where he founded other castles and churches besides the fortress of Bucharest. liP is also the first Romanian ruler of whom a contemporary painting (•xists. Despite the rich vampire lore that exists even today in Homania, his name and identity as a vampire are entirely unknown in Homania. 
According to Slavic lore, the 
prince was killed near Bucharest 
while fighting the Turks. In the 
IJ
~-~:,..':$ 
DR. ALBERT E. Miller, Notre Dame associate professor of metallurgy and materials science, points to a problem in the equip­ment used in his magnetic materials study 
llidier said. "No clue. nothing. We just stay at home. waiting for the phone to ring. What else can you do'' 
Wp've researched everything and nothing has shown up. It's starting to get to us now, after six days of this. All we can do is wait for a phone call or something. Then we finally get one from <'hicago and all they want is money and that peters out. And then we wait somt' more." 
Didier referred to a phone call last Thursday from a man who tried to (•xtort $1,000 by saying he best tradition of the Dracula legend, his body was missing when his crypt was exhumed in 1931. 
Professor Floresco is a direct descendent of an ancient Romanian family that witnessed Dracula's horrors and there is said to be a curse on the Floresco family promised by by Dracula himself. Floresco did his un­dergraduate and masters work at Oxford University and received his Ph.D. in history from the llniversity of Indiana. 
His research on Dracula and other £<:astern European subjects has been aided by awards, grants, and fellowships, which include the Ford Foundation, Fulbright 
Faculty fellowship, the American I'hilosophical Society, the llniversitv of Bucharest. the t\ m Prican· Council of Learned Societies, and Oxford's Gladstone Historical Prize. 

Pngine or a nuclear reactor for structural weakness or damage without tearing it apart or waiting for it to cool down. A crack in nuclear reactor tubing, for in­stance. sends out an acoustic wave as it develops, which can be received by a magnetostrictive device to determine the location and size of the crack and the speed and direction of its movement. 
Using tiny, laboratory-grown, single crystals of the rare earth alloys for their experimental work, Miller and his postdoctoral research associates, Dr. Kenji 1\liura and Dr. Thomas D'Silva, are tabulating the properties of each of the 15 rare earth metals, and the metal's · behavior when alloyed with cobalt. In the process, they are discovering why and how magnetostriction works. With the 
Spring or Summer Vacation in New Orleans? 
Stay at the 
CLO TCWM VILLA 
....and save money! 
Intimate French Quarter villa restored to meet your every need. Tour· ist apartments by the week starting from $100. All feature new private baths and kitchen facilities. Stay in the heart of the fabulous French Quarter and SAVE MONEY! Send for free brochure. 
616 Ursuline St. New Orleans, La. 70116 AC(504) 522-1793 
numerical values from these tables. engineers will be able to deliberately design a magnetostrictive device with the desired magnetic properties, in­stead of working in a shotgun fashion. 
The new materials have other advantages, a significant one being that, contrary to their name, rare earth materials occur abundantly in nature. Miller said that. while nickel is becoming less available and more expensive, the rare earths, yttrium, dysprosium, lutecium and others, are very prevalent in phosphate mines and are found in vast deposits in the United States. These metals also are produced synthetically as by­products of other reactions. So far, no "ton-quantity" usage for the metals has been discovered. 
had information about young Didier's disappearance. Authorities arrested Louis .Jackson. 20, Chicago, later that day and charged him with theft by deception. He apparently knew 
nothing about the boy's 
Civil rights veterans return after 10 years 
SELMA. Ala. <UPil --Veterans 
of the civil rights movement returned to Selma this weekend, 10 years after a bloody clash with ·police, and allowed that things 'have improved but could be better. 
"Kl'ep your marching shoes on," 
1\lrs. Martin Luther King Jr. told 
:1.000 persons Saturday before they 
stepped off on a march to the site of 
the confrontation with state 
troopers and sheriff's deputies 
March 7. 1965. 
There are still some goals to be 
achieved." said the widow of the 
t'ivil rights leader. "We must 

10 PERCENT IHSCOl'NT WITH THIS AD 
MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES * 2 FILMS 
* 
BOOKSTORE 

* 
LIVE FLOOR SHOW 


1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET CALL 282-1206 FOR INFORMATION. 
. . 
li 
HAND-CRAFTED SILVER JEWELRY SPOON RINGS e ANTIQUES LEATHER GOODS e RINGS SIZED 
305 W. JEFFERSON BLVD SOUTH BEND, IN. 46601 219-2B8-4114 
whereabouts. 
Didier's paper bag was found across the street from the fourth house on his route. Police suspect he was kidnaped, but no ransom demand has been received. 
rededicate ourselves to non­violence to gain the goals of my husband." 
"The march today is a com­memorative effort," said John Lewis, head of the Voter Education Project and a leader of the 1965 march. 
"It's a symbolic effort to take notice of the progress we have made and the distance we have to go." Lewis said. "In 10 years there have been tremendous changes in the South. There have b"een some major changes but there still is a terriblv long way to go." 
•
i 
~ 
1 
I 
I 
l 

~ 
I l' 
t I 
1 
i j 
j 
6 
the observer Monday, March 10, 1975 
-Ready this spring 
Grace Hall to house own television station 
b,y Paul Waller Starr Ht>porter 
Grace Hall is in the process of setting up its own television station and hopes to get it started by spring break according to Steve <;oett, Grace's director of com­munications. 
Because Grace is a steel structure, good television reception is already made possible with a large antenna on the roof and a cable system which ties into Pach room. The TV signal is now channelled from the roof to a distribution center in the basement and then to the rooms. 
The plan calls for the distribution center to be expanded so that Grace students will be able to tape their own shows as well as record and replay outside tt>levision programs. 
Kearney announces nomination period for SMC elections to close at midnight 
Nominations for St. Mary's ticket, she state. "The reason for present Legislative Commissioner student body president and vice this," she stated, "is that these Joanne Garrett. 
president of academic affairs and three must be able to work student affairs are being accepted together." from now until midnight tonight, "The candidates, to be student announced Election Commissioner government officers, must know Katie Kearney. one another, trust one another. 
All candidates seeking and be able to count on each other nomination must run on a full to do their own jobs," exolained 
Career seminar set for economics rnajors 
A career seminar for economics majors exploring the different l'areer .areas available will be presented by Omicron Delta ~:<:psilon, the economics honors fraternity. according to president Bill Sohn. The seminar will be held at the Architecture Auditorium from 8 to 10 p.m. on Wednesday, March 12. 
Dean Robert Waddick, of the College of Arts and Letters, will speak about law school; Dr. Hobert Skursky, director of Graduate Studies of the Notre Dame Economics Department will comment on graduate school in Pconomics; Mr.Richard Willemin, director of the Placement Bureau will talk about employment with a bachelor's degree; and Dean John Malone, of the Notre Dame M.B.A. school will speak on holding a graduate degree in business. 
All economics majors and any freshmen or sophomore interested in economics are invited to attend. 
The requirement for candidates to run on a ticket, said Kearney, was not enforeced in the past two vears because the structure of student government was not the same. Instead of a president­vice-president organization, four commissioners were elected to office, she said. 
By requiring a ticket, the election commissioner stated that a ''cohesive government,' should result. 
At present, Kearney continued, only one ticket has been nominated. 
The positions are open to any student who has attained a status of a second semester sophomore. Transfer students must have completed two semesters at St. Mary's in order to run. No previous student government experience is necessary, Kearney noted. 
Each ticket must submit their platform by 8 a.m. tomorrow. 
~:<:tections will be held next Tuesday, March 18 in LeMans lobby between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. 
Tirne.magazine reportsCIA tied to Caribbean assasination plots 
NEW YORK IUPI>-Time Magazine, reported Sunday it has been told by "credible sources" that the CIA was "involved in assassination plots" against Caribbean leaders Fidel Castro, Rafael Trujillo, and Francois Papa Doc Duvallier. 
The magazine said its "sources contend that the CIA enlisted the expert hired-gun help of U.S. Mafia figures in several unsuccessful attempts to kill Cuban premier 
Sadat confers with top aides on peace talks 
B~· l'nited Press International 
Egyptian President Anwar Sadat Sunday began a series of l'Onsultations with top political and militarv aides as well as m·wspaper editors on the latest 
peace talks with Secretary of 
State llenry A. Kissinger. 
~:<:gyptian government sources 
said Sadat met Gen. Mo­
hamed Gamassy. the war 
minister and commander-in­
··hief of the armed forces, and 
I.!. Gen. Hosni Mobarak, 
l'ommander of the air force, . 
soon after Kissinger left Aswan 
for Svria and Israel. 
Sadat later conferred with 
Ahmed Baha Eddin, editor of 
the newspaper AI Ahram, and 
lhsan Abdel Koddous, a re-· 
spected columnist and novelist. 
The consultations gave rise to speculation in diplomatic cir­cles that Sadat was optimistic about Kissinger's chances in getting agreement on a second­stage Israeli troop withdrawal in the Sinai. 
They recalled that Sadat consulted with political and military leaders and briefed newspaper editors in January, 1974, when Kissinger succeeded in mediating the first Egyptian­Israeli disengagement accord. 
Kissinger is expected to return to Aswan late Tuesday or early Wednesday. 
Castro both before and shortly after the CIA-plannned Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba in 1961." 
It said the sources claimed the CIA had enlisted the help of un­derworld figures Sam Giancana and John Roselli in efforts to kill Castro by poison, shooting, or bombs. It said the FBI later learned of these attempts while investigating a burglary of comedian Dan Rowan's hotel room in Las Vegas; it said the FBI learned "the arrested prowlers had been assigned by the CIA as a favor to Giancana, who sought information to break up a budding romance between Rowan and 
Giancana 's  girl  friend,  Phyllis  
1\Jl'Guire."  
The magazine said its  sources  

claimed the CIA "backed the successful drive to overthrow" 
Trujillo. whose 38 years as Dictator of the Dominician Republic t•nded with his shooting death in May 1961. The sources said the CIA thought Trujillo was "getting too friendly with the 
Communists"  and  so  "nobody  
wanted  another  Cuba  in  the  
Dominican  republic."  It  said,  

"Several sources insist that some of the guns used in the killing. apparently fast-firing M-1 car­bines, were smuggled into the caribbean island by CIA operatives. 
It said the CIA "collaborated with Haiti leaders of a group of at least 200 rebels" who tried un­successfully to overthrow· 
Duvallier. dictator of Haiti, in 1963. 
It said the group of rebels was 
stopped at the Dominican order 
when they tried to invade Haiti. 
You can study the American Arts in England this summer! 
Your Bicentennial summer at the L'niversity of Evansville Harlax­ton Study Centre in England will be the learning adventure of your life. Study the Arts in America 200 years later . . . . art, creative writing, dance, drama and music. Earn 9coUege credits from June 15toJuly 15.Completecostforroom, board and tuitionis$1,000, plus air fare, including a $100 deposit. Your application deadline is April 1. EnroUment is limited, so return the coupon today for complete details. No obligation. 
.---------­
1 Yes! I wanl to know more about my Bkentenn&al Summer at the1 Harlaxlon Study Centre In England Please send complete details 
t ~E-----------------------------­1 ADDRESS --------­
1 : C~W STATE_________llp_ 
~ ' POONE (ACl ---­
1 I wil bo a college FR SOPH JR SR 
1
\._,.____________________
Iplease c1rcle one) 
TO: Dl,.ctor of Adm..ol""" Dept: 43 Untve..tty of EvonoviUe P.O. Box 329 Evonovlllo. Incl. 4 7702 
Goett. said that once the system (;oett is the director. Hugh Sonk is set up they will be able to offer has been named program director 
the Grace residents a wide variety and he will handle the creative side 
of l'ducational and entertaining of the station's oper'ltion. The shows. 
director of technical assistance who will be in charge of thePresent plans call for the taping l'quipment's operation, has not yetof such things as review sessions in been named.
ehemistry and other large coPrses. instructions in car St•veral hours of programming maintenance and hopefully the will be offered each week probably platforms of the candidates in the beginning at about eleven in the 
upcoming hall elections. t•vening. According to Goett, "Each hour of operation will 
The hall currently has about $500 rt>quire about four to five hours of which will be used for the work behind the scenes preparation." necessary for patching into the 
Because of the existing cablepresent system. In addition, the systPm. I<'lanner Hall would be the llniversity has promised to loan only other dorm in which a similarthem the other l'quipment until the 
t•nd of the year. set-up would be feasible at the prl'sPnt time. At that time they will evaluate 
"Wp'v!' talked to Bro . .Just andthe system and try to obtain fund­our n•ctor l<'r. McNally and we'reing for next year's operations. 
;ill really <'nth used about it,"(;oett said that this could run statPd (;oett. ''WP have someanywhere from $1500 to $5000. 
rPally lTPative pPople in the hall Grace has organized a com­an~ there's almost no limit to the munications commission, of which possibilities of this thing." 
WSND-FM to begin fund-raising project Su.m1nerfund '75 
by .John Kenwood Starr Reporter 
WSND-FM <88.9) will hold its fourth annual money-ra1smg eampaign, Summerfund'75, 
March 9-16 in order to collect funds to continue operation during the summer. 
Summerfund'75 will consist entirely of phoned-in contributions. 
"We don't run commercials due to our status as a fine-arts station," promotional director for WSND Mike Progar said , "and if we are to continue during the summer and thus retain our license, we need the financial support of our listeners." 
Progar explained that the Federal Communications Com­mission might not renew WSND'S 
license to run a wide-ranged station if they did not run a twelve months a year schedule. during the entire year", he con­tinued "WSND handles ex-elusively for the area the 1\letropolitan Opera and the Boston S~·mphony Orchestra. If we only reach twenty people with our programs, then we serve those twenty." 
I'rogar added that the range radius of the station is about 50 miles with a potential audience of betw{•en a quarter and a half million people. 
"Our primary goal is to provide a needed service to the greater South Hend community," Progar stated. "But if our license is not rt'nl'Wl'd. then we will be forced to go down to ten watts from our prt>sent :!500 and thus not be able to serve the people who enjoy our music." he added. 
\\'hen asked about the expected results of Summerfund '75, Progar rl'plied that "Like last year, we will be able to continue broad­l'asting during the summer with the help of our listeners--but only with their help." 
NICKlE'S 
PRESENTS 

60 HOURS 
OF THE LOWEST BEER PRICES IN THE COUNTRY!' 
MON, TUES, WED: 
NOON  -MIDNIGHT  
THURS, FRI, SAT:  
NOON  -8:00 P.M.  

PLUS THE BEST HALF-POUND CHARCOAL, GRILLED HAMBURGERS IN TOWN 
Monday, March 10, 1975 the observer 7 ­
House may pocket oil import veto 
WASHINGTON <UPil -The override the veto, Chairman AI crats have no doubts they House may pocket a presiden­llllman of the Ways and Means would easily muster the two­tial veto this week while the Committee plans a motion to thirds necessary. The issue is Senate, shaking itself out of a refer the measure to his closer in the Senate, however, long filibuster battle, faces up committee to be held for 60 and since two-thirds of each to the tax cut issue. days. house is necessary to override, 
The House scheduled action it was considered wiser to
The aim of the maneuver is 
Tuesday on President Ford's delay the vote and use it to
to ensure that Ford will keep
veto of a congressional meas­Congress' advantage.
his promises -to delay for 60 
ure imposing a 90-day delay on days two of the three-step House Republicans, charginghis increases in oil import increases in the import taxes that to sidetrack the veto into taxes. Ford offered a compro­and to delay for 30 days his Ways and Means would be likemise to undercut the chances of intention to lift controls on the holding a sword of Damocles a two-thirds majority in each price of "old oil." over the President, insisted onhouse voting to override the a vote now or a promise never veto. but House Democrats If Ford breaks the promises, to vote on the override. 
were working on a more subtle it is reasoned, the House can strategy. bring the veto override to an The Senate, willing to go Instead of voting to sustain or immediate vote. House Demo-along with the delaying tactics 
~ 
To ease inflation 
McGovern details program 
\\'ASIIINGTON <UPI>-Sen. prepared for delivery at the fronts us." 
(;eorge S. McGovern, D.-S.-D, University of Alabama and To tackle the problems, he said, outlined Sunday an eight-point released through his Washington the nation must institute "some program, highlighted by wage­office that none of the various public service employment price freezes, for easing the programs offered his Democratic combined with price, wage and problems of inflation, unem­colleagues in Congress "meet the interest controls." ployment and the energy shortage. structural deficiencies reponsible If adopted, McGovern said, his 
McGovern said in a speech for the Pconomic crisis that con-plan would "curb inflation and unemployment, puts us on the road to a solution of the energy crisis,
Escapism seen as motive 
reduce military waste, provide a more just tax structure and offer the nation improved public ser­
for migration to Florida 
vices." In addition to a "short-term, across-the-board freeze on prices,
MIAMI BEACH <UPJ) Dr. Richard N. Carrera, profits, interest and wages,Psychologists say escapism is director of clinical psychology followed by the long-term selective running rampant in Florida this training at the llniversity of controls," McGovern said he alsovear and hotelmen and res­Miami. 
would require public investment in . ta uranteurs are loving every "It's the way we might energy development, trans-minute of it. 
respond if a doctor told us we portation and temporary public
Officials are estimating that 
had only six months to live," he service employment.
the state. and the Miami-Fort said.
t.auderdale-Palm Beach area in His other six points, he said, 
Dr. Edward Wallach, a
particular. might be enjoying would be: 
behavioral psychologist, ex­-"Stronger <·nforcemmt ofthe biggest tourist season ever. 
plained that "escapism and antitrust laws.
They say there are a million 
avoidance behavior is the most
tourists seeking the sun in the -Phasing out of high fuel usage
motivating force for anyone,
;\\\ami area alone this week automobiles. dPspite the staggering econo­('Ven a pigeon or a monkey. -"Sharp reductions in militaryThl' ~·oungest infant will try to spending.
mv. 
:.W<• don't know why they are <·sape an unpleasant sensation. -"Tax reform to eliminate wasteful hl'rt'. but wl' thank God that "And here we are. bombard­-loopholes and encourage in-they are. says one Miami ing pt>ople with lay-offs, fewer vestment in selected, vital areas of 
lkach r!'staurant operator. dollars and the prospect that public need. Psychologists think they can things will get worse," Wallach -"Movement toward replacement <•xplain the why. said. "People have decided to of present welfare structure with a 
"I think vou'll find that a lot give themselves a vacation­progressive negative income tax. of those vacationing feel that one last hurrah-that can make -"An American initiative to the bottom ·s going to fall out tht>m better able to function, to reduce international military and that they'd better enjoy find a job and to survive when spending and invest savings in the t ht•mselves while they can," said they return home.' fight against world hunger 

~111PIII 
VIe 
a.JE and TV\0 BIDROOM RJRNISHED /lPARTMENTS 
ic  COMMU_NITY BUILDING  
campus view  ic  INDOOR SWIMMING POOL  
A  NEW  APARTMENT  COM­ ic  BASKETBALL COURT  
MUNITY  DEVELOPED FOR  ic  SHAG CARPET  
THE  STUDENTS OF NOTRE  
DAME & SAINI' MARY'S.  CAMPUS  2 BATHS IN 2 BEDROOM APT  
VIEW IS SET  IN  A WOODED  ALL APPLIANCES COLOR  
SURROUNDING YET IS ONLY  COORDINATED  
3 BLOCKS  FROM NOTRE DAME.  SECURITY  
LOCATED JUST ONE BLOCK  
NORTH OF STATE  RD.  23  OFF  SOUND CONDITIONED  
OF  WILLIS RD.  ic  PRIVACY  
March 21 1:00pm. Info. 5714 


NOW RENTING FOR FALL SEMESTER 
( '75 -'76 SCHOOL YEAR ) FOR RENI'Al.INFORMATION PHONE 272-1441 
of the House on the veto measure and with its own lengthy and acrimonious debate over a change in the filiuster rule finally out of the way, faced the question of when, where and by how much to cut taxes. 
The House already has voted to give a rebate to low-income taxpayers this year and reduce taxes next year. 
The Senate Finance Commit­tee not only has the House bill but a variety of taxing alternatives from within its own majority party to consider. 
Once out of committee, the tax bill faces a fight on the Senate floor over the issue of Pnding the oil depletion al­lowance. The House attached to the tax bill an amendment closing depletion loophole for oil companies but a powerful Senate block was prepared to fight to keep it open. 
In an effort to reach a compromise on the depletion issue which could threaten the politically desirable tax cut, Sens. Edward M. Kennedy, D­Mass., and Ernest F. Hollings, D-S.C., plan to offer an amendment ending depletions on foreign produced oil and providing a five-year phase out period for the allowance for small domestic companies. 
Senate Democratic Leader Mike Mansfield noted that "we are in difficulty with the House that passed the depletion allowance overwhelmingly." Since the two measures are unlikely to be very similar, a conference of members of both sides will have to be held to work out a compromise. 
Thus, a tax-cut bill was thought unlikely to be ready for Ford's signature before mid­April, although Sen. Hubert Humphrey, 0-Minn., chairman of the Joint Economic Commit­tee. said in a television interview he thought it would be enacted before a scheduled Easter recess March 21. 
ln the House, an emergency $5.9 billion bill to provide !!00,000 jobs in the midst of high unemployment is due for action Wednesday; the House Appro­
priations Committee scheduled action Monday on a huge foreign aid bill that has nothing in it for Cambodia and Vietnam even though Ford has appealed for emergency aid for both; and Central Intelligence Agency Director Wiliam Colby returns Monday for more House hear­ings on allegations the agency illegally carried out domestic spying activities. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
Need Acquarium--Small,fully WANTED equipped, cheap! Call 1166. 
NEED RIDE TO ST. LOUIS. Men and women with two years of CALL TERRY 5495 college left! Want to invest six 
weeks this summer and assure 3 women need ride to Arizona for yourself a second career as an spring break. Call 1272 or 1260 Army Officer upon graduation? 
Earn approximately $500.00 this Two of us in desperate need of ride summer and gain self-confidence! to Phila,. Trenton area for Easter No obligation. For information break Call Mel 3457 contact CPT Weimer at 283-6265 
Desperately need rid<:> to Fla. near West Palm Beach fer break. Call GREAT SCOTT! Ron 3306 COME TO LOUIE'S JUMBO 
BEER SPECIAL MON THRU Housemate W'lnted. 4 room house THURS. 5 PM TO 9 PM with basement, backyard, garage. Very nice rooms. Excellent neigh. borhood. Call Jeff at 283-7234 or 
FOR RENT
234-2931 
For rent: Furnished houses
Need ride to Boston for break. Call 
available now for Summer and
Jim 8504 Fall rental. Phone 289-2602 or 234­9364
DESPERATELY need ride to DC area for Spring Break. Share expense. Please call 4872 
-
LOST & FOUND 
Need ride to DC from Tampa Fla. area on Mar. 30 or 31. Will share 
Found: to the hitchhiker who left 
expenses. Call Mark 1043 hi~ gloves in my car . Please call 233-5925 (Found last Thurl Need ride to New Orleans at Spring Break. Call 4379 
LOST; PHOTOGRAPHIC THIEF­RETURN NEGATIVES TO 
FOR SALE LOCKER no. 72. CAROL COSTA 
1974 Camaro-AVTO, Power, AC, Lost: Brown purse at Reinke'sAM-FM custom interior. 232-8600 party, Saturday. Reward. Call Kathie 89012 Rectilinear xa speakers. Orig. $400 . Now $225 for the pair. Call 
Lost: Set of keys Call John 1757
Tom Cordell at WNDU 233-7111 
Pioneer 1010 receiver. Dokorder PERSONAL7500 reel-to-reel. Phone 1945. Inquire 203 Fisher. 
Happy Birthday Bellyman and George. From your big sister1 Miracord 750 with V-15 II, Pair 
Bitsey. Bee.
Southwest technical U.T. Power amps 75 watts each (R.M.S.) Call 
Gator,
277-0085 after 7 PM 
This one is tor you! Congratulations! Mary
NOTICES Sue, Jane, 2E, Joe, Grit, Tom, Gail,Married couple needed for live in 
Bev, Joe, VVicky, Jan, Angie, Pat,
houseparents for foster home. Salary. Write; P.E.P., Inc. 3012 s. Phil, Sharon, Karin, Leo, Zat, Loz, Twyckenham, South Bend, Ind. Scales, Dave, and Debi. Thanks AI 46614 
SNIP,Cleveland Club Spring bus leaves This is your personal. I know
youv'e been waiting for it for a long time. But I don't know what to
Typing. experienced in term 
say. But I want you to know I'm 
papers and dissertations. 
lookin' forward to florida; I hope
Reasonable, accurate. 232-5715 you are too! Love, snot
HEAR MIKE McCOY OF THE GREEN BAY PACKERS SPEAK ON HIS EXPERIENCES IN PRO St. Pat's Day is FOOTBALL AND CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP TUESDAY MARCH 11th 9 PM ST. EDS com ing. Put a 
CHAPEL 2nd FLOOR. ALL WELCOME 
classified personal 
Western electronics 24 hour TV service. 1530 Western Ave. 282-1955 
in the Observer. 
SUMMER IN EUROPE UNI-TRAVEL CHARTERS AT LESS THAN '12 REG. ECONOMY FARE. 65 DAY ADVANCE 
Call 1715
PAYMENT REQUIRED. U.S. GOVT APPROVED. TWA-PAN AM-TRANSAVIA 707's. CALL for info. TOLL FREE 1-800-325-4867 

8 
the observer Monday, March 10, 1975 
-
Fencers edge WSU 177-166; take Great Lakes tourney 
-
by Tom Kruczek season goal of a national title. 
In their bid for a national title, The Irish went into the weekend 
the Notre Dame fencing team 
underdogs to powerful Wayne 
swept the men's division of the State. Notre Dame had earlier in 
Great Lakes Championship over the year defeated the Tartars, 15­the .weekend, upsetting heavily 12, but in the Great Lakes, it was favored Wayne State here, 177-166. 
felt that Wayne State would be at In winnmg this, the second most the advantage, because only two important tournament of the year, fencers are used at each weapon,the Irish have but the NCAA instead of the usual nine. The 
Championships in Fullerton, Tartars have two individual 
California left to realize their standouts in Greg Benko, defen-
Grace I, Keenan I move to interhall B-balllinals 
by Fred Herbst 
Bv virtue of a 63-52 win over 
<;ra.ce I, Keenan I daiml'd the 
North (~uad championship of In­
terhall Basketball. Off-Campus III 
won the deciding game in their 
!wries with Pangborn to gain the 
South Quad championship by a 
score of 58-46. 
After Grace won the first 
gamt> of the series against Keenan, 
.Joe Montana scored with two 
seconds remammg to allow 
Keenan to even the series on 
Tuesday night by a score of 46-45. 
1\p(•nan led all the way until Steve 
Sylvester scored with six seconds 
to play. Montana then hit a 22 foot 
jump shot to force a third and 
rlP.ciding game. 
In the championship game, Mike Banks scored 23 points to lead Keenan to their victory. Despite only scoring two points. Joe Montana again made his presence felt as he controlled the back­boards. Dan Wilks and Greg Wilks added 18 and 14 points respec-
LaSalle  East  
(Pennsylvania l  winner  
ECAC ·N.Y.· Conn.  
winner  
I Provide.•ce l  
North Carolina  
\Charlotte l  winner  
New Mex. St.  

\San Diego) winner 
1 Providence l 
Furman
-
winner
1 Charlotte l 
Boston College 
wmner
1Providence) ------­Penn 
winner 
1Pennsylvania> Kan. St. or Missouri 
Mideast 
Cent. Mich. 
IAiabamal winner 
ECAC. Sou. 
\Dayton) 
winner 
Kentucky 
winner
!Alabama> 
Marquette 
~San Diego> !Dayton> winner 
Indiana 
winner
<Kt>ntucky> 
Arizona 
winner 
cDayton > 
OVC winner 
\Kentucky> winner 
Pac. -8 runnerup 
lively. Rich Allocco had 18 points 
for Grace. 
Avenging an earlier loss to 
Pangborn, Off-Campus III forced a 
deciding game in their series with 
a 52-42 win. on Tuesday night. Off­
Campus played a tough zone 
defense that obviously rattled the 
Pangborn squad. 
Pangborn's back court was 
gutlty of numerous turnovers and 
at the same time was unable to 
contain Allocco, who finished with 
19 points. Bruno added 13 points. 
Frank Allocco scored 18 of his team's first 22 points, and finished with 29 as Off-Campus won the South Quad title. Off-Campus trailed Pangborn by three points with only four minutes to play when Bedford Bruno exploded on the boards and hit a quick six points leading a surge that gave 
Off-Campus the win. Off-Campus III will now meet Keenan I in a three game series to determine the Interhall Basketball Championship. 
ding foil champion in the NCAA's and Great Lakes, and Steve Danosi, defending Sabre champion 
in the NCAA's and Great Lakes. 
The tournament began Friday, 
with the Irish and the Tartars 
running neck to neck. Out of nine 
pools of fencers, the Irish were on 
top in five, while Wayne State led 
in two. 
Saturday, however was the day that the Irish moved clearly ahead, placing all six fencers in the final rounds of the epee, sabre and foil t·ompetition. Freshman Mike McCahey, seeded fifth going into the tourney, sustained a knee in­jury on Friday night, and was listed as a doubtful participant on Saturday. He did compete Saturday, and finished in second place behind Benko of Wayne State. Pat Gerard, third seed, finished in fourth place, with Mark Masters of the Tartars sand­wiched in between. 
In epee, as expected Tim Glass and Ed Fellows finished w<'ii. 
ending up in second and third 
places, respectively· It was in this weapon that Irish began to pull away from Wayne State, since WSU 's Joey Znoy ended up in fourth place, while Uri Rabinovich finished a disappointing fifth. But Sabre was the weapon that brought the victory home for Notre 
Dame. Danosi of Wayne State won the event as expected, but Sam Difiglio for the Irish wound up in 
second, while John Vozella, un­seeded in the top ten prior to the meet, finished in third. Daniel Sliwa for Wayne State was outsted from action in the semi-finals.
The victory for Notre Dame was_____________________ 
Texas A&M  Midwest  
\Texas Tech> Cincinnati  winner  
Louisville  1N .Mexico SU ___w_i_nn_e_r___  
I Oral Roberts) Rutgers  winner  IN.MPxico St. l  1San Diegol winner  
Maryland  
!Texas Tech) Creighton  winner  
Notre Dame  1N .Mexico St.)  ___w_in_n_e_r___  
1Oral Roberts> Kansas  winner  
Arizona St.  West  
1Arizona State l Alabama  winner  
Nev.. Las Vegas  !Portland)  winner  
\Arizona State) San Diego  winner  I Portland>  !San Diego> winner  
UCLA  
! ~ I'  1Washington St.) Michigan .. Montana  winner <Portland>  winner  
'  !Washington St.) Utah St.  winner  

THE 44TH annual Bengal Bouts began last night before an estimated crowd of 1900 in the ACC. 
the first won outright since 1968, MichiganDearborn 42 and Chicago
since the Irish were co-champions :l6. 
in 1970 along with Wayne State. In women's competition, Ohio 
The individual victory by Danosi State outpointed Northwestern 62­
was his fourth straight sabre 52. Freshman Karen Beckman of 
crown, while teammate Benko Northwestern, ranked 14th 
captured his third straight foil nationally, won the women's foil, 
title. Outstanding fencing awards but had to down Jill Tremaine of 
went to Danosi, Ed Fellows, and Ohio State 5-4 in a fenceoff for first Jim Herring of Wisconsin-place after the two girls ended in a Parkside. deadlock in the finals. Tn•maine 
Wisconsin-Parkside finished in also won the outstanding fencer third place with 110 points, awards. Kathy Valdiserri of Notre followed by Detroit 106, Cleveland llamt> took third place honors. The State and Chicago Circle 97 each, Notre Dame-St. Mary's team Case Western 75, Lake Superior 71, finished in a tie for fifth with Tri-State 58, Oberlin 53, \\'isconsin totaling :l3 points. 
