OD The Inside 
Black Studies ... page 3 Mynah marriage ... page 9 


serving. the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 76 Friday, February 7,1975 
Badin residents get explanation 
by Andy Praschak 
2. l No undergraduate women will be plained. Staff Heporter forced off campus. Burtchaell responded that he has spoken :l. l A proper graduate housing complex to every hall on campus and was not afraid 
l<'r. James Burtchaell, University provost, will be built by fall of 1976. to speak at any. ''Dr. Gordon was sent and Sr. John Miriam Jones assistant to the Ht>len Gallagher.Badin rector, announced because he is directly involved with the provost. explained last night the decision to that a reciprocal open house will be held graduate students," he continued. convert Lt>wis Hall into an undergraduate between the two dorms from 1 p.m. to 9 p.m. 
"What do you say to the fact that twowomt>n's dorm and Badin Hall into a tem­on Monday Feb. 10. 
years ago Hev. Hesburgh said that Lewis porary women's undergraduate dorm to Although Helen Gallagher, Rector of Hall will never be taken away from theBadin Hall residents. Badin Hall attempted to ask all non­nun:?"' she asked.
residents of the hall to leave the meeting, Apology to Badin one Lt>wis Hall resident went unnoticed. "That needs no comment," Burtchaell "In representing Lewis Hall I would like said. 
Sr. John Miriam Jones apologized to to say that we are deeply insulted with the "Is Badin a half-way house for moving Badin residents for the indirect and unof­way we were consulted about theis whole graduate students off-campus?" she asked., ficial manner that the housing change was FR. JAMES Burtchaell, University provost, matter." explained the graduate student, "It isn't necessary to say no," he said. announced. and Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant to the during a question and answer period. Habda questioned the use of federal funds 
"It was all a mistake in timing," con­provost, spoke to the Badin Hall residents The Lewis Hall representative, Candacia to build a new graduate complex. "Isn't it tinued Burtchaell. last night. Habda. then produced a copy of the letter of ironic that you are moving out Graduate "We were being pressured to make a notification the hall received. students. moving in undergraduates and
preferential treatment but no male dorm
decision as soon as possible and I couldn't Habda then explained that Dr. Robert E. then using a Federal grant to build a
would be sacrificed. 
contact Helen Gallagher (Badin Rector) Gordon. vice president for Advanced graduate dorm?" she asked.
"WP felt that this was an adequate way to
in timt>." Jones stated. Studies. had spoken to them Wednesday Burtchaell explained that Federal grants 
move towards our long-term goal of a 1,500
Burtchaell suggested that Gallagher and night. ''He told us that Father Burtchaell are only one source being considered and
female enrollment." Burtchaell explained.
a ft>w others meet and decide on the method would not come and talk to us," she ex-many others are also being t>xplored .
Wht>n asked why the University has beenof transferring halls. 
''haphazardly moving people from dorm to.Jones then explained that if the lottery dorm over the past four years," Burtchaelllike last vear's were held, Badin residents ('Xplained that the decision was made to usewould be 'taken into other halls only if there 
Decision reactions vary
the learning process and decide the housing is room after the present residents have ~olutions a year at a time.

selected. 
One member of the audience questioned"Prt>sumably, Badin residents will have the eonveniences in moving graduate and by Kathy Mills "With the exception of Lewis Hall," hefirst choice when returning to their hall in undergraduate-students, to their new starr reporter re":l~~ked, "the present graduate housing1976." specula ted Jones. 

locations. "The graduate students are faclhtles on campus are just hand-me­Lt·wis Hall residents now pay a higher further from the library, but closer to the Views of students and administrators downs; they are in poor condition. We need room fee than Badin residents. Answering a dining hall... he said. varied in , the wake of Monday's an-this new complex, we need it desperately." 
question ('Oncerning whether or not the new The present Badin Hall residents were nouncement of the conversion of Badin to a Graduate Student Union President BillLPwis Hall residents will be paying a higher informPd that they will be allowed to con-graduate hall and the possibility of a new Smith-hinds could not be reached for in-room charge nest year. Burtchaell replied tinue eating in the South Dining Hall. graduate housing complex. formation on the proposed new facility for
that he would recommt>nd that the same '1'h 'd f h · d d graduate students.
· e 1 ea o avmg a coe orm was Dr. Robert Gordon, vice-president for
ratt>s Badin women are now paying be discussed by the officers but it was not a Ad d st di · th 1 f Assessing the role of the graduate
continued next vear. vance u es, views e P an or students on the campus, Gordon stated that 
large part of the discussion." commented transformation of Lewis Hall from a
"In other words. all it takes is a Burtchaell. HP explained, however, that graduate to an undergraduate women's they are an "effective force" on un­~ignaturt>: it's already been decided," said anything is possible in the future. dormitory as an excellent opportunity to dergraduates, expecially as teachers,
.lont>s. 
Burtchaell announced that all R.A. ap-construct the proposed new graduate correctors, laboratory assistants, teaching plications from Badin residents would be housing complex. assistants, and resident advisers. Yet 
H1•asoning behind the dt>cision 
turned over to Lt>wis Hall. "The girl will "I see this time of change as a time of Gordon said that they "tend to have their then be able to transfer the application to opportunity," he stated. own social life." Burtchaell explained that there were two any other hall she chooses." interjected Gordon pointed out that in 1972 he worked Concerning the move to Badin, Gordon 
sides to the issue the Officers of the ted that th g d t t d ts · 
.Jones. with the Graduate Student Union to survey no e ra ua e s u en require
tlniversity have been discussing for seven ,·ndl'v1'dual rooms s1·nce they ha e h · 
the housing needs for graduate students. , v a eav1er 
months. "On the one hand, there was the 1\h•t housing goals This work resulted in a plan for a living workload and more pressure than the un­
belief that women should be treated as dergraduates Th1's eed · fl ted · th
complex on campus, most probably an · n IS re ec m e 
equally as men." the provost said. Ac-cording to Burtchaell the Officers of the apartment complex, built especially and plan to convert Badin to all single rooms 
Howt•ver. he explained that many of the llniversity feel that they have made a solely for graduate students. Gordon and next fall. Gordon added that it is "very Offict>rs felt that the danger for women off-decision in the interest of women Oil r.am-the Graduate Student Union put together feasible" for cooking facilities to be in­<·.~mh pusf is greater than for men. pus. government subsidies, notably from the stalled in Badin, "since it is vital that the · ere ore. we decided that no women Tht> three goals Burtchaell feels the Of-Federal Housing Authority, to finance the graduate students have them." would be forced off," Burtchaell said. fict>rs have accomplished ar.e: project. However, Gordon said that Despite Gordon's enthusiasm for the new 
Rurtchat>ll t>xplained that a compromise I. I The number of men forced off-<:ampus President Nixon "shot down" these sub-housing complex, LeV(iS Hall resident Linn ""\\-·a_s_r_e.ac.·h·P•d•\·\·-he_r_e_b_y_w_o_m_e_n_w..o.u..ld-re_c_e_iv_e_..:,\\;.:'i~ll..:n.:,:o:.:;t..:i~n~cr:.;e;;,:;a:.:;s~e.;..__________..;!';;,:.i:;:_dJ:.:i·e~s_;w:,J:.!;.t!.!.h..!h!.!.is~1!97.:,:3~bu~d~ei.!;t.;,.---------------(continued on page 8) 
0 versupply of professors · 
Economy outruns salaries 
by Bob Radziewicz Professors <AAUPl. "Between the of 'the future of their institution," Staff Reporter years 1900 and 1960, approximately Rathburn said. "And in looking 340,000 doctorates were awarded. towards the future, , they became 
The troubled American economy Between 1960 and 1970, an ad­fearful of continuing trends of has affected the teaching industry ditional 340,000 Ph. D.'s were declining enrollments. So they cut to a much broader extent than the granted degrees by American back on faculty employment erosion of purchasing power for faculty members. The combined effects of an inflationandrecession, 
Observer lnsiqht:

which have yet to be fully ex­universities and colleges," he said. wherever possible," he remarked.
plained by economists, have "In other words, there has been 
reduced the number of openings a doubling in the number of Hiring of Ph.D.'s
for university teaching positions qualified Ph. D.'s over the stretchwhen the market is being flooded of one decade," Rathburn sum­The surplus of qualified personsby qualified Ph.D.'s. 
marized. seeking teaching positions has "During the expansive mid-afforded universities and colleges
f'.~ 
..... SaJ0 ,.. 

1960's, when all the institutions of a wider range of choice in hiring
-....::.:. ,, 

higher education were growing, new faculty .
..... 
..... .... 

there was no clear prediction by A department chairman at St. economists as to what would Mary's announced at a convention happen over the next decade," he attended last year that his
.,,,~....­
fiG no .. 

Rathburn continued. "Schools department had one opening and found themselves overstocked; was swamped with over 200 ap­
~-­
"Five or six times the number of then constantly swelling plications. Reports from other qualified persons who are able to enrollments suddenly slipped," the schools around the country show teach are now looking for AAUP board member stated. that this was no exceptional case. 
positions," explained Prof. Paul "This struck fear into the hearts What are the implications of the Rathburn, a member of the of administrators, who have as situation? Does this mean that National Board of the American their responsibility the solemn (continued on page 8) STILL WISHING HE WAS A COWBOY, Steve Goodman gave
Association of University duty to look out for and take care Thursday's Mardi Gras crowd two hours of guitar and vocals. 


Friday. February !ft97S

the ·observer 

warld briefs 
IIAHTFORD. Conn. (UPI> -A Thomas Gainsborough painting \'alued at about $100,000 was stolen Thursday from the Wads~orth Atheneum here in what officials described as "a very clean JOb." 
IH1Bl.JN 1UPil -Five more Irish Republican Army hunger strikes Wl're transferred Thursday night from Portaoise prison to a 
1

nearby military hospital. Prison sources said they were in serious condition after fasting for 35 days. 
1'H ICAGO <UPI > -Chicago's Field newspapers --The Chicago Sun-Times and the Chicago Daily News --ended a long string of (•ndorsemPnts of Chicago Mayor Richard J. Daley Thursday night h~· hal· king a rival in the Democratic mayoral primary Feb. 25. 
!'APE CANAVI<--:HAL. Fla. WPI>-A Delta rocket roared into ~pan• late Thursday carrying a satellite designed to improve 11 1·ather forecasting and provide a longer warning for those in the path of dl'adly tornadoes. 
STOCKHOLM <tJPJ> -Stockholm Communists came out against l' .S.-style hamburger emporiums in Sweden Thursday, contending thPy an• a danger to the working class. 

an campus laday 
fri. feb. 7 

12:15 pm--lecture, "northern ireland: some decisive moments In its history," by rev. ernan mcmullln., lib. faculty lounge. 3:30pm--colloquium, "souls of anumals" by gareth matthews, lib. faculty lounge. 5 pm--mass 9 dinner, bulla shed. 5 pm--evensong, lady's chapel. 6 pm-2 am--mardi gras, talisman, stepan center, $1. 7:30pm--hockey, nd vs. michigan st. u., ace. 7:30--lecture, "congress and minority groups" by rep. edward royball. lib. aud. 8, 10 pm--film, "aIfie", eng. aud., single $1, couple $1.50. 9 pm-1 am--SMC coffeehouse, 9-j. laughlin & d. zimmerman, 10· david james, 11-b. hillstrim, j. dadmun, c. cazazza, 12-frank martin, ice cream sandwiches 15 cents. 
sat. feb. 8 

8:30am--workshop, "communicating religious values to children", $9.50 includes all materials 12 noon--basketball, s. car. vs. nd, ace. 5 pm--vespers, log chapel. 6 pm-2 am--mardi gras, stepan center, $1, talisman. 8,10 pm--film, "alfie", eng. aud., single $1, couple $1.50. 7:30pm--hockey, michigan st. vs. nd., ace. 
sunday, feb. 9 

12 noon--12 pm--mardi gras, raffle drawing, stepan center, 75 cents. 2 pm--talos meeting, Iafortune ballroom. 
4:30 pm--vespers, lady chapel. 
7:30 pm--meeting, MEACHA, Ia fortune. 8 pm--concert, helen reddy, peter allen, ace, $6.50, $5.50, $.4.50. 8 pm--lecture, "license in liberty", by duncan williams, lib. aud. 
Obsessed by a film 
Russian steals bus, flees for 1300 miles 
MOSCOW <UP I) Albert Naserov's dream came true. He stole a bus. 
The government newspaper Izvestia said Thursday Naserov is finally behind bars after spiriting the bus 1,300 mile across the Soviet Union. 
Izvestia said Naserov saw a film about stealing a street car and became obsessed with the notion of stealing a bus. Finally in his home of Kalinin, 90 miles north of Moscow. he struck. 
Jl(• fitted the vehicle with stolen license plates and forged travel documents under a pseudonym. He listed himself as an l'ngineer testing experi· mt•ntal vehicles. 
Naserov then set out on his 
Butch Cassidy & The Sundance Kid 
Sunday, Feb. 9 7, 9, 11 Engineering Aud. $1 
bus odyssey across the Soviet 
Union. not stopping until he reached the Asian city of Tashkent. 
Once there. he began ferrying passengers. cucumbers and cabbages to the neighboring lfzbek republic, pocketing siza­blefees. lvestia said. 
His luck held out even when the bus was in an accident. Although the vehicle was destroyed and two passengers injured, no one reported Naserov to the police. 
lit> made his way back home, hut the police finally caught up with him. 
"How could he go through the entire country when we have a police post at nearly every kilometer'?" the newspaper asked. 

Tax relief measure passed by Ways and Means Co1n1nittee 
By DON PHILLIPS 

WASHINGTON <UPil -The 
House Ways and Means Com­
mittee completed rush action 
on a $20.1 billion tax cut bill 
Thursday that would provide 
cash refunds of up to $200 for 
all who paid 1974 income taxes 
and a cut in withholding taxes 
for everyone later this year. 
The anti-recession measure. 
pushed through the committee 
in just four days, was approved 
28-5. Action by the full House 
was expected within several 
days of its return Feb. 18 from 
a 10-day recess. 

Besides granting $8 billion in 1974 tax refunds and payments to individuals, and another $8.3 billion in withholding tax relief to individuals the last half of this year. the bill would provide $3.8 billion in tax incentives and assistance for business expansion. 
But committee members 
turned down a proposal for a $1 
billion tax break to help rescue 
finanCially ailing American 
business giants that included 
the Chrysler Corp., and put a 
$100 million ceiling on invest-
Facility to open 
lor 0-Cstudents 
Fr. Robert Griffin, University Chaplain, has announced the opening of a new service for off­campus students. The service, which will be open from lla.m. to 3p.m. Mondays through Fridays,will be located in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
In describing the new service, Fr. Griffin noted that it is designed to provide light hospitality, such as serving coffee and doughnuts, for the off-campus students. "We will provide whatever is needed, from the serving of doughnuts to the blessing of houses and exorcising of demons," Griffin said. 
During Lent, Fr. Griffin will say a Mass at 12:30 in the LaFortune. "Usually, for the off-campus student, 11:30 Mass is too early and ; o'clock Mass is too late," he said. Griffin added that on Ash Wed­nesday. ashes will be distributed for the off-campus students. 
Volunteer girls are needed to staff the service and anyone in­terested should contact Fr. Griffin. 
''Michael Murphey is that rarityamong songwriters: a humanist.What he has done and is doing is invaluable!'~~7z~~i~ro0~e 
Michael Murphey's songs bring the open, natural feelings and beautyof the country. ''Wildfire,'' ''Medicine Man'' and 

"Carolina in the Pines"are just some of the real new sounds of Michael Murphey's newalbum, "BlueSky-NightThunder:'It'sanatural. On Epic Records 
ment tax credits for the $2,500 for a joint return. The American Telephone and Tele-standard deduction would be graph Co. calculated at 16 per ·cent of 
Some 62 per cent of the adjusted gross income rather rebate would go to those than the 15 per cent it is now, making less than $15,000 while with the maximum increasing about 15 per cent would go to from its present $2,000 to $2,500 those making more than on a single return and $3,000 on $20,000. The average family of a joint return. four would receive a rebate of Changing its mind at the last $100 at $10,000 of income. $126 minute, the committee decided not at $12,500 of income. $170 at to cut off 1974 tax rebates to per­$15,000 and $200 at $20,000. sons making more than $30,000 to 
All told the bill's $20.1 billion $40,000. price tag was $4.1 billion above However, anyone making more !'resident Ford's recommenda-than $30,000 could get no more than lions -all of it m increased tax $90 to $100. The final rebate figure relief to individuals. Ford also will be calculated later to remain had proposed tax cuts on 1975 within a committee-imposed limit individual income but as a part of $8 billion. of his energy conservation The rebate would work this way: package rather than his eco-Every family or single taxpayer nomic recovery program. would get back 10 per cent of the 
Heshaping Ford's proposals taxes he paid in 1974 up to a to emphasize tax relief for low maximum of $200. Those who paid and middle income groups, the less than $100 in taxes would get committee for the first time back the full tax they paid. incorporated in legislation a so-The maximum would begin called negative income tax shrinking when income reached provisio~ -cash payments $20,000, phasing down to the from the government for maximum $90 to $100 at $30,000 of persons too poor to have owed income. any income tax for 1974. A form of negative income tax 
The tax-writing committee, like for the working poor was approved the rest of Congress under heavy earlier by the committee. This criticism from Ford for allegedly provision would grant a payment dragging its feet on economic of 5 per cent of earned income to lesitlation, was proddedalong by anyone making $4,000 or less even its new chairman, Rep. AI Ullman, if they paid no taxes. This credit D-Ore., who had pledged alnight would phase out as income went sessions if necessary to get a bill above $4,000 one making more than out by week's end. $6,000. 
Withholding taxes for in-Other income tax cuts for in­dividuals the last half of this dividuals would take the form of year would be lowered by lower withholding rates in the last raising the minimum standard half of this year. This would be deduction, or low income accomplished by increasing the allowance as it is sometimes standard deduction which many called, and by raising the low and moderate income persons maximum standard deduction. and a scattering of the wealthy use 
The minimum standard de rather than itemizing deduction. duction, now $1,300 for a single Ford requested only a 12 percent return. would be raised to rebate of 1974 taxes, up to a $1,900 for a single return and maximum of $1,000. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~==-~~= ~~~~------~ 
VALENTINE'S DAY DINNER DANCE 
SPONSORED BY KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 
TODAY LAST CHANCE TO BUY TICKETS 
RESER­VATIONS CALL 
7018 

the observer'~ 


Black Studies 
Scott sees progress in program 
by Brian M. Clancy for a major, a student must Staff Reporter complete 24 hours of courses developed and approved by the Mention the term Black Studies director of Black Studies. These to the average student, and he courses are varied. ranging from immediately envisions a Economics to Theology, and many 
classroom full of black students students who are taking these listening to a black professor courses as part of a different lecturing about black history with major do not even realize that they a soothing Ray Charles tune may have completed or nearly providing some atmosphere. This completed a sequence allowing is definitely a false impression, them to claim a second major, one however, according to Dr. Joseph in Black Studies. For a student 
Observer lnsir:~ht 
Scott. Director of Black Studies. 
"There are presently only seven black teachers and 125 black under graduates at this university. There just a.ren 't enough blacks to go around," commented Dr. Scott. "There is not a single class in the Black Studies program in which the majority of the students are black. Therefore, the role of the Black Studies program here at Notre Dame, is just as much to educate white students about blacks. as it is to educate blacks." 
Although there are only 125 black undergraduates, Dr. Scott estimated that almost all of them will take some courses in the program during their four years of schooling. White students on the other hand, rarely take the program as a major, usually taking it as an elective in order to broaden their intellectual scope. This is evidenced by the fact that two thirds of the students choosing the Black Studies major are black. 
The Black Studies program is a major in the college of Arts and Letters, but has no faculty or courses of its own. Thus the program relies upon teachers in other departments to offer courses which can be used towards a Black Studies major. In order to qualify with 15 hours, the progr<>m offers a certificate, which can be useful 
in job applications. 
The Black Studies program was one of the first programs to offer the student a multi-disciplinary approach to learning. In this type of a teaching system, teachers from two different backgrounds combine to dual-lecture a class, providing the students with a unique learning opportunity. 
Most of the courses in the Black Studies program are junior and senior level courses because in the past that is where the leadership placed emphasis. Now, however, the program is restructured to accommodate more un­derclassmen, giving equal representation to the four classes. 
There is also a black student 
committee, consisteing of 3 
members of each class, all blacks, . 
which meets with Dr. Scott to keep 
him aware of student feelings. 
History of thl' Program 

Black Studies began as a result of black student protests in the late sixties. Black students presented the university with a Jist of grievances which they felt warrantedimmediateaction. and a 
EconoDlists predict uneDlploy~nent peak 
By !\liKE FEINSILRER 

WASHINGTON <UPil President Ford's chief econo­mist predicted Thursday that unemployment would reach a peak of about 8.5 per -cent this year before beginning a slow descent. 
Chairman Alan Greenspan of the Council of Economic Advisers said there is nothing the government can do to get unemployment down from around an average of 8 per cent in 1975 and 1976 without creating an unacceptable and dangerous inflationary impact. 
Even if the planned fiscal 1976 deficit of $52 billion were nearly doubled, to $100 billion, the extra economic stimulation would not pull the unemploy­ment rate down to an average of 5.5 per cent by 1976, he said. 
Greenspan sat at a table on the stage of a Senate auditori­um for three hours, answering questions from Congress' Joint Economic Committee about his grim forecasts for two years of high unemployment and high inflation. 
The January unemployment rate is to be announced by the Bureau of Labor Statistics l<'riday morning. It is expected to be significantly higher than the December rate, which was reported at 7.1 per cent but, in a recomputation, Greenspan reported. actually turns out to be 7.2 per cent. 
Every percentage point in­crease amounts to about 900,000 more idled workers. 
Greenspan heard expressions of anguish about the prospec­tive high unemployment rate. 
Mass., said the idea was "frightening." 
"If you're talking about 8 per cent in this country, I dread to think what you're talking about in Massachusetts," she said. "The bad news is unendura­ble." 
Greenspan said the adminis­tration would not hesitate to 
alter  its  policies  if  change  
seems  necessary.  
"In  the  judgment  of  the  

President, these are the policies that for the moment make sense," he said. But they are not "frozen unalterably," he said. 
On the other hand, Greenspan said. it could turn out that the administration is pessimistic. He said the private economy contains remarkable "recupera­tive elements." 
But Greenspan stressed his view that the worst conceivable course would be a policy 
concentrating so singly on getting unemployment rates down in the short term that the long-term inflationary consev­quences are ignored. 
"There's something plain wrong in our policies to have to accept 8 per cent unemploy­ment for two years," com­plained Sen. William Proxmire, D-Wis. 
No, said Greenspan. What was "plain wrong," he said, were past government spending policies that ignored the "infla­tionary bias" they created in the economy. He said he abhors unemployment, too. 
"I can assure you senator," he told Proxmire, "I do not enjoy looking at the numbers 
ep. Margaret M. Hecklery~ P-, .. ;iny more than you do." 
committee was then formed to review the complaints. The committee found that most of the complaints were justified, and then set about correcting the situation. As a result of the student protests, more black teachers were added to the faculty, more scholarship money was made available for blacks, black counseling programs were established through the Fresh­man Year office, and most im­portant, the Black Studies program was formulated. 
Considering that only six years ago there was no black studies program, and only one black teacher.who didn't even teach a black oriented course, it would seem that the program has made great strides forward. However, according to Dr. Scott, "The program still has a long way to go. I would like to see Black Studies become an institute or center. Then we would have our own budget to buy the time of faculty members of various departments. This would be beneficial to me 

New alcohol bill passes judiciary sub-committee 
by Terry Keeney 
News Editor 
A bill to free universities and colleges in Indiana from legal liability for violations by students of state drinking laws passed a sub-committee of the Indiana Senate Judiciary committee. 
Passage of thebill came late last night after University Counsel Philip Faccenda, Pat McLaughlin, student body president and Georgia Luks; a third year law student. testified in favor of the measure. 
The bill, sponsored by State Senator Philip Gutman, Bepublican President Pro Tern, and Thomas Teague, Democratic minority leader, will come before the full Senate Judiciary next Thursday. 
Faccenda noted that the chances 
of passage  of  this measure  are  
good.  
"I  think  this  bill  has  a  

reasonable chance of passage," he said. 
The bill was well-received in the General Laws Sub-committee which passes the measure, ac­cording to Faccenda. 
"They were not anxious to im­pose unreasonable liabliity on because it would allow me to better plan the courses offered. In ad­dition, it would allow the faculty members to retain their depart­mental status. Also, we would be operating with an in­creased budget, which would make things easier." 


Black Studies presently operates with a budget of $25,000 which tends to get stretched very thin. The money, which it receives from the College of Arts and Letters, pays for phone and electric hills, operational costs, secretaries' salaries, and half of Dr. Scott's salary. In addition, this money is used to acquire films for classes, to sponsor symposiums on black related topics, and to pay guest speakers. Last semester Angela Davis, Stokely Carmichael and Harry Edwards, guest lecturers who spoke on campus, were all sponsored, in part, by the Black Studies program. Dr. Scott would like to bring Angela Davis back this semester to speak on Com­munism, a topic she neglectedin ·· her last appearance, when she spoke on political repression. 
There is also a notionbeing discussed within the program to try and get Angela Davis to teach a course in the program in the future. but nothing concrete has developed yet. 

cenda said. "We pointed out the serious problem any college or university near the Indiana border has because every state surrounding us has an 18-or 19­year old drinking age," he said. 
Under current Indiana law, the universities and colleges are held vicariously responsible for their students under 21 years of age violating Indiana drinking laws if the university has knowledge of 
At St. Mary's 
those violations. This law, a result of an Indiana Supreme Court decision last April, caused the University of Notre Dame to prohibit drinking by minors on campus. 
This bill was drafted by Notre Dame law students under the direction of Faccenda. 
"Most of the work has been done by the Jaw students," Faccenda said. 





La'WSociety tolneet 
The first meeting of the semester of the St. Mary's College Law Society will be Sunday February 9th, 7:00p.m., Room 161 LeMans. 
The topic of the meeting is ''Stepping Stones to Law." The invited speakers are: Marcia Bergdorf and Cathy Cekanski, South Bend lawyers; Karen O'Neil, Director of the SMC Placement Bureau; and Carol Nix, a third year Notre Dame law student. 
The panel will discuss questions such as: how to apply to law school, the career opportunities available to women in the legal 
IN CONCERT 
profession, what it's like to be a law student, what otherfields one can enter with a law degree, what the LSAT consists of and when to take it. 
A question and answer period will follow. 
Law Society members are asked to attend and new members are cordially invited. A questionnaire will be distributed to all members concerning their ideas for future meetings. Members are also requested to mark the dates of the next three meetings on their calendars: March 9, April 16, and 
colleges and universities," Fac-May 1. (Law Day) 
SEALS & CROFTS SUN. MARCH 2nd 7 :30 NOTRE DAME 
Athletic and Convocation Center 
Ticket Prices: 
All chair type seats $6.00 Bleachers $5.00 

Ticket Sales Start Monday, Feb. 10, at 
NOTRE DAME, A.C.C. BOX OFFICE Mon. -Sat. 9 to 5 STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE Robertson's South Bend & Concord Mall St. Joseph Bank and branches First Bank main office only Elkhart Truth 
4 thet observer Friday, February 7,1975 
To speak on 'Cmgress and Mnority GoUJE' 


Roybal: Strong federal 
works supporter 
Congressman Ecl.ward Hoybal · <D-Cal), a mt•mber of the ap­propriations committee and the legislative, general government and labor subcommittees, will discuss "Congress and Minority Groups" at a public talk at 7:30 
p.m. Friday <Feb. 7) in the University of Notre Dame's Memorial Library Auditorium. The talk is sponsored by the Ml•xican-American Lecture Series and is open to the public without charge. 
The Los Angeles legislator en­tered politics in 1949 when he was dected to the city council where he represented the Civic Center and ('ast side district. He was n•elected three times, twice without opposition, and was named president pro tempore in 1961. 
Since Plection to Congress in l!lfi2, Hoybal has served on in­tPrior, foreign affairs, inter­AmPrican affairs, veteran affairs, t'ducation. housing and hospitals and other committees. 


Justice Department investigates legality of WallaceS second term 
Roybal represents a district of ethnic diversity -it includes people of Mexican, Black, Italian, German, Russian, Irish, Polish and Swedish heritage. The bulk of the district's population is working class--53 per cent blue collar and 47 per cent white collar. Roybal maintains that the district houses the richest and the poorest Californians. In the district as a whole, only 15.5 per cent of the housing is owner-occupied. Ac­cording to a district field deputy, the minorities and the poor ex­perience the most pressing problems in the district --poor housing, unemployment, inadequate schools and discrimination. 
Hoybal has been a strong sup­porter of federal public works programs and federal spending for schools, poverty programs, and urban renewal. He voted for the 1967 anti-poverty bill funding the Office of Economic Opportunity with $1.75 billion dollars. He also 
WASHINGTON <UPI> -The Justice Department said today it is trying to determine whether Alabama Gov. George Wallace illegally began a second consecutive second term in office without seeking prior federal approval of the state constitutional amendment which allowed him to do so. 
Under the Voting Rights Act of 1965, Alabama is one of six states which must submit any proposed political changes that might affect minority voting rights for prior approval either by the U.S. attorney general or the U.S. district court in Washington. 
A spokesman for the Justice Department's civil rights divi­sion said Alabama did not submit its amendment for federal approval before Wallace and several other state officials were inaugurated recently for their second consecutive terms. The potential error was uncov-Pred today by the Birmingham Post-Herald. 

The spokesman emphasized the Justice Department has made no decision on the issue. 
"One major question to be answered first is whether the Alabama succession amend­mPnt is a change covered by the provisions of the voting Hights Act," he said. 
If the Justice Department determines that the amendment should have been submitted for federal review, he said, the state then would be required to do so. 
"If it is necessary that it be 

MARY CLEMENCY offers defense in last night's ND-SMC basketball 
game. In a hard-hitting 40 minutes, the SMC defense effectively stymied 
the Irish drive to win by seven points. (See story on page 11) 

MONDAY & TUESDAY ARE NOTRE DAME NIGHTS 
r 
ITALlAN FOODS 

LIKE YOU USED TO GET AT FRANKIE'S SERVED BY LENNY & EDNA 
Havioli  $2.50  
Spaghetti  $2.75  
l.asagna  $2.75  
VPal Parmigana  $2.75  


Follow Eddy to Mishawaka Ave. '• Block Past River Park Theatre 

COMPLETE DINNERS 
Pitchers of Beer $1.50 while viewing our giant 5 X 7 T.V. 
CONGRESSMAN ROYBAL will speak tonight in the library auditorium on Congress and its relation to minority groups. 
favored spending $588 million for urban renewal and granting unemployment compensation for migrant farm workers. In 1971 he facilities for the working poor. He supported establishing a minimum wage for farm workers. 
voted  for  Brademas'  Com­ 
prehensive  Child  development  
Amendment  creating  child  care  

Roybal has taken strong stands in defense of Civil liberties. In September 1950, during the first term as city councilman in LA, Roybal stood alone in voting against the subversive registration bill, which required members of "subversive" organizations to register with the government The courts ruled the action un­constitutional. Roybal spoke in favor of freedom of the press when he approved the House Interstate and foreign Commerce Committee resolution to cite CBS in contempt of Congress for not turning over to the committee material used to make "The Selling of the Pen­tagon" 
lie said."The press, the news mPdia. Sl'rves as a critic and analyst of our society and 
submitted," ~e said, "the amendment Will. th~n .be eva­!~ate~ t? determme 1f 1t has a discr1mmatory purpose or ef­feet." . 
He did not say what would be done in that case about Wallace and the other state officials who succeded themselves under 
the a~endment. . . 
T~e votmg nghts act also apphes that same provision to the st_ate_s ?f .Georgia, Loui~ia­na. MISSISSippi, South Carolina and Virginia and some isolated jurisdictions in other states throughout the nation. 

* SMC COFFEEHOUSE* 
TONIGHT ! 
John Laughlin 
Dave James & Don Zimmerman 
Bill Holstron & Co. Frank Martin 9: 30~1: 00
under the 
music n'
dining hall 
munchies 

THE ROMA 
PIZZA * LIQUOR * ITALIAN FOOD 
Your Host Frank Anastasio 'A PIZZA YOUCANNOT REFUSE' LIVE BAN OS 0 N WEE KEN OS 
Call 234-3258 For Delivery 219 N. Mich. Ave. Downtown At North End Of River Bend Plaza 
MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES 2 FILMS
* 



BOOKSTORE
* 


LIVE FLOOR SHOW
* 

1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET CALL 282-1206 FOR INFORMATION 
0

• • I ,• ,' 1 • ~ , 1/1 • f ,
,>., 

governmental process to muzzle it by rules governing news content is to make it a subservient press. Thsis can only lead to a general wt•akening or decay of our basic freedoms, particularly free speech. 
Since 1963 Congressman Roybal has successfully managed to represent the interests of his constituency despite the many pressures from the diverse ethnic groups which make up the 30th district of California. 
Study in Guadalajara, Mexico 
The GUADALAJARA SUMMER SCHOOL. a fully accredited UNI­VERSITY OF ARIZONA program. Will offer June 30 to August 9, anthropology, art, education, folk­lore. geography, history, govern­ment, language and literature. Tuit1on and fees, $190; bo.ard and room w1th Mexican family $245. Write to GUADALAJARA SUMMER SCHOOL. 413 New Psychology. University of Ar~zona, Tucson, Arizona 85721. 
\dvPrtisenwnt 
DEPRESSION ART "FOUND" 
Public Offered 
1937 U.S. Gov't 


Art Prints 
A series of rare coincidences has led to the historic discovery of several thousand sets of full color antique art prints that were "lost since 1937." They are now being offered to the public. 
ELEANOR ROOSEVELT 
Back in 1937, immediately fol­lowing the depression years, Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt and a select group of a dozen nationally pro­minent people formed a volun­tary national committee for art appreciation to create an art pro­gram that would give the public a well-needed moral lift. It was the committee's decision to select the world's most famous paintings from the 16th, 17th, 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries -the best paintings of Matisse, Van Gogh, Gainsborough, Picasso, Gauguin, Titian, etc., and to reproduce them in full color as perfectly as humanly possible and make them available to the public at a price within the reach of everyone. 
ABANDONED IN 1937 
For some unknown reason, 
after a quantity of these beautiful 
reproductions were made, the en­
tire project was abandoned and 
this collection of perfect repro­
ductions was stored in a Brooklyn 
warehouse, where they remained 
undisturbed since 1937. 
The lost collection was "redia­
covered" and leading lithogra­
phers and art critics agree that 
the subject matter and quality of 
detail and color reproduction is 
incredibly accurate. Over $500,­
000.00 had been spent to make engraved glass printing plates 
These authentic orginal 1937 prints are literally collector's items and have been appraised by the American Appraisers Aaaoc. at $7.00 each print. Once they have been sold, there will be no more available. A truly excellent art "investment" that makes a fabulous gift. 
AVAILABLE TO PUBLIC 

Now, after 38 yean these full color 11" x 14" (ave. size) prints are finally available to the public at $19.95 for a collection of 18 prints. Send cash, check or mon­ey order to: U.S. Surplus, Dept. Xl7 , P. 0. Box 605, Tarzana, Calif. 91356. Fully GUARAN­TEED. Certificate of authenticity given with each set. Master Charge and BankAmericard OK (give card number). 
Adv~rtisemcnt • 
'' 
0 

May withdraw from HPC 
Zah1n council delays decision 
by Pat Hanifin 

Staff Reporter 
The Zahm hall council has postponed any possibility of with­drawing Zahm from the Hall President's Council pending an HPC report on the HPC's role in the University. Doug Cox, Zahm Hall President explained that his. criticism of the HPC was never intended as criticism of its chairman Bob Howl. 
Jim Spurling, the Zahm council member who sat in on the HPC's discussion of the Cox charges, explained Zahm 's action which was taken February 4. 
"Zahm Hall still recognizes the 


importance of an organization "ZAHM HALL still recognizes the such as the HPC;" he said. con­importance of an organization 
sequently the council voted such as the HPC," said Doug Cox, unanimously to remain in the HPC president of Zahm. and help direct that a "defimte and sincere desire to 
reorganization. "We welcome the work on the HPC, but there is not HPC's decision to examine itself, much I can do if it remains simply since it demonstrates an an information service. unqualified interest in improving Cox emphasized that "I do not the quality of student represen­want to antagonize Howl. It is true tation." that I am guilty of inaction to 
"We felt there was reason to some extent myself. Others could question the effectiveness of the be criticized; for this too, but that is HPC. After reporting on the not the point. This is a groupmeeting I attended the council problem. not a problem with t>xpressed hope that it could particular individuals." Cox said. stimulate some reorganization of the HPC--to strengthen it from Clarifiying his position on the within." need for re-orienting the HPC Cox 
stated that he realizes it has an 

Work with IIPC ''advisory capacity" but suggested 
that it should "initiate constructive 
action and not just respond after 

Responding to a direct question the fact," Cox said. "It should deal on Howl's charges that Cox with problems that are of concern has been inactive in the HPC to the individual halls-for himself and was merely trying to example, make recommendations ·•get in the paper," Cox said he has on maintenance and housing." 
Army troops called to halt disorders 
By STEPHEN MORROW spreading false rumors about 
LIMA (UPil Peruvian the civil disturbances. army troops used gunfire Although Lima looked like a Thursday to halt scattered battleground at times on looting and disorders in the Wednesday as troops in ar­aftermath of a police strike. At mored cars chased looters and 
least 47 persons were killed. arsonists, it appeared more of a The government also extended mopping-up operation on Thursx­
its curfew and warned against day.meetings by more than four persons at a time. Bursts of rifle fire were 
The government announced heard intermittently as troops that the strike by 7,000 and special police units brought policemen in Lima-which set in from an anti-subversive off the widespread looting, school scattered groups of arson and stone throwing looters. Wednesday-had been settled 
The official announcement didand diplomatic sources said not give a death figure but many police were already back acknowledged "some losses of on the job. 

life. numerous wounded and theUPI newsmpn reported from detention of a great number ofthe Lima Central Morgue and persons involved in the distur­from the 2nd of May Public bances."

Hospital that at least 47 persons 
were dead of gunshot wounds. 
With a state of siege in effect The government had not for the second consecutive dayreleased an official toll of dead and a national work holidayand wounded as of Thursday decreed by the government,night. 

downtown Lima was almost 

The dead ranged in age from of traffic. 
teen-agers to middle-aged per­
Cox argued that "it shouldn't just settle 'for receiving reports and second hand information from bodies like the Academic Council and the SLC. 
"We in Zahm, " he stressed, "are not asking that extra power be given to the HPC; instead we are asking the HPC to use the power it already has as an advisory body." 
The calender issue, according to Cox was an area where the HPC should have acted but did not. He said that Jim Ambrose. academic commissioner, had discussed the matter with the council but that nothing had come of it. 
Cox suggested that the HPC could have served as a conduit for feedback from hall residents on the dispute. 
IIPC an "information service" 
''Right now the Council is heading toward being simply an information service and is failing to get sufficient student input. If it does nolchangecourse Zahm would seriously consider quitting:" 
Biff King, Keenan hall president and a member of the role in­vestigation committee, felt Cox was overreacting to the situation. 
"It was ignorant and totally irrational to start out by threatening to quit" King said. 
"If he has complaints there are other. less drastic methods to express them." 
King stressed he was speaking as an individual, not as a com­mittee member. 
King said that he understood Cox as saying that the HPC was not functioning as Cox thought it should and that therefore Zahm was considering quitting. "I do not think he intended any personal attack on Howl but Howl at least felt that such an attack was im­plied in the criticism of the HPC." 
King viewed the HPC as a ser­vice organization to handle mat­ters which need representatives in each hall and as a com­munications link between students and the University. He pointed to such activities as An Tostal as indicative of what the HPC is doing. "We are an advisory body only with no voting power," he said. 
.'ox explained 
that what finally spurred his action were two Observer articles. one on the HPC and one on bringing women from other colleges for Mardi Gras. He saw how seriously other people were taking us but thought the Council was not measuring up. 
Because of this Cox asked the Zahm Council to allow him to quit the HPC. The Council agreed to have him make a statement of his feelings at the next HPC meeting and deputized Spurling to report on the meeting. 
At this meeting the HPC ap­proved , after considerable discussion, a six-member com­mittee to look into the Council's role. 
sons, mostly men although three women were among the 
THIS SUNDAY NIGHT (FEB. 9) IS
bodies at the morgue. 
N.D. & S.M.C. NIGHT AT SHULA'S!
Long lines formed at the morgue with citizens trying to find out if any · relatives were 
NO COVER CHARGE WITH THISAD
among the dead. The government announced Thursday an extension of its 
NOW APPEARING
curfew ordering those without official passes to stay home between 8 p.m. and 5 a.m. Thursday night, two hours 
BLITZ earlier than the 10 p.m. curfew ordered Wednesday. 
AND 

The government w a r n e d again that it was illegal for 
LISTEN 

groups of more than four at a time to meet. 
"Troops and police have orders to act energetically if they see any groups violating this order," the official com­





~Sizula~
munique said. 
· NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS

As the government warned 
on U.S. 31 lMhrMn llies. So. B•d-FrM P•rtin&-68~350

against mass meetings, it shut down the Lima bureau of the 
British news agency Reuters, accusing the, service with Friday, February 7,1975 

the observer 

HOME MADE COOKING SPECIALITY: GOULASH FREE SALAD BAR 
(Friday & Saturday only) 8 DIFFERENT TYPES OF SALAD 
Draft and Bottled Beer 
ALBERT'S 
501 LINCOLNW A Y W. ( ¥2 mile west of Mich. Ave l 
COME TO THE BULLA SHED AND BRING A FRIEND mass & dinner every friday 5 pm 

SMC SOCIAL COMMISSION 

SEND A 
FLOWER 
Pink, White and striped carnations 7 5 ct Order Mon. & Tues. nights at SMC dining hall 5:00 -6:30 
Only 300 flowers available. Will be delivered Thurs. and Fri 

Last Day for Registration for Free University 
Student Govt. Offices 2nd Floor LaFortune 
9:30 -1:30 2:30 -5 
or caII 61 1 1 
all guitar courses -closed 
the observer Friday, February 7, 1975 
seriausly! falks
The O'Leary's The FBI's
pattie caaney 
I'm sure that anyone coming from a large end of Richard, that March he asked me to family thinks that their household is wild his senior orom six weeks in advance. and that nobody's family is crazier than It was orie of those proms that included a 


Raw Files 

theirs; obviously they haven't met my picnic the next day. Anything that could friends the O'Learys. There are eight have gone wrong did. My bathing suit came O'Leary children ranging from age 25 to age apart just as Andy O'Leary lost her contact 12, increasing in eccentricity all along the lens. Needless to say we were a big help to 
art buchwaI d 

line. each other, I couldn't move and she couldn't I encountered six O'Learys my first day of see. I've hated Qicnics ever since. • FBI Director Clarence M. Kelley said last week in a speech thatschool in high school almost eight years ago. If Alexander Graham Bell knew what a • collecting information about private citizens is not a serious threatMy life has never been the same. I went to a lethal weapon his invention could be he 
unless the data is misused. And there, as Hamlet's masseur wouldSacred Heart high school that also had a never would have invented it. The O'Learys • say, is the rub. What guarantees are there that the raw files won'tgrade school. At the time there were five spend 99.9 per cent of their time on the • be misused? Suppose you have a vindictive computer which has inO'Learys in grade school and one a fresh­phone with 99.8 per cent of that time on our •• its memory bank the files on some of our leading citizens. Director man in high school. The reputation of the phone. They adopted me as the ninth child •• Kt-lley may say it can't happen, but it did just last week. I was on a
O'Lean·s was known far and wide. of the family some years back and con­tour through FBI headquarters when I fell behind and this Everyone was somewhat in awe of them, sequently they are on our phone morning, • computer started chattering on its printout.
almost in fear of them, especially the noon, and night averaging at least six calls a 
"Would you like to hear about a senator who wears silk stockingsteachers who taught both in the grade school day. Often times when they call they do not • and high heels when he's working on tax reform at home?'' and high school. talk but put the phone next to the radio, • I was shaken and punched back, "Of course not." 
Nothing was safe from the O'Learys' stereo, or television and sometimes in the • The computer's typewriter worked again. "There's a certain sense of humor, not even the nuns. Jody oven. On my father's birthday they call and • female movie star who takes baths in Coorsbeer with a well-known 
O'Learv was well known as the voice of God sing to him, then they have their own bir­• professional football player."and his angels and saints. It was not thday party for him. They call other people 
"What's so strange about that?" I typed back. 
unusual for some poor sister to have to too. and order them pizzas they don't want. 
• "Nothing. except he poses for Schlitz beer commercials," the answer a phone at 3:00a.m. and hear "This The youngest O'Learys show signs of • printout read,"and always says, 'When you're out of Schlitz, you're
is God calling..." surpassing the older ones in pranks. For • out of beer' · ·'
•
fo'or some reason I was neither in awe of, instance the youngest one calls up • "Oh, for heaven's sakes," I typed back, "don't you have 
norafraid of the O'Learys and it wasn't long pretending she is the family guinea pig, •• ;mything better to do than just print gossip about people?"before I was invited to their house. From "Ginny." "Ginny" also has a wife "Gin­The computer seemed to ignore my message and came back what I had heard, going into the O'Leary nette" who occasionally calls to yell at me with. "There's a liberal actor in 'The Towering Inferno' who household was the same as taking your life for taking so much of Ginny's time up on the • sneaked off for a weekend to Lake Tahoe with a right-wing married 
into your own hands. I had heard all kinds of phone. They also have a cousin Ginnalou actress from the same picture."
•
horror stories. one about a girl who who calls when she is visiting town. They "Do you have proof of this?"
•
somehow got peas down her blouse while even call long distance, collect of course. "No." the computer replied, "but where there's smoke there's 
Paling dinner there, and another who got a • fire."
The best thing about the O'Learys is they
bucket of water poured down her back as • And its lights started blinking as if it was enjoying its own joke.
always make me laugh and I've never once
soon as she entered the door. The only thing I typed back, "I think this is disgraceful. You have all this
gotten into an argument with any of them •
that happened to me the first time was material stored in you and none of it has been verified. You could
except "Ginny". They never pay any at­•
getting a paper bag pulled over my head. do tremendous damage to innocent people."
tention to my bad moods and if they know •
The very worst thing the O'Learys ever The computer's lights turned dark red. It was angry. "There are
I'm feeling grumpy, they either leave me 
did to me was introduce me to Richard -, no innocent people. There are only Americans we know things
alone, or do something so outlandish I can't 
at a New Year's Eve party sophomore year about and Americans we don't." the printout read, "I am the
help but laugh. They give advice if asked
of high school. Richard was a good keeper of the skeletons in everyone's closet."
otherwise they just listen and always take
conversationalist but !left him to go watch • "Rut just because you have it in your memory bank," I protested,
my misfortunes seriously for at least five •
the Orange Bowl game. That was not the ''doesn't make it a fact."
minutes..Now tell me they are not unique. 
• "That's what you think. Once the raw files are fed into a com­•• puter it becomes the gospel truth. Computers never lie. Have you
autrider • heard about the Supreme Court justice who took his wife to see 'lkep Throat'?"
•
• "What's so wrong with that?" I typed back. ''Six timt•s?" 
"Lies. all lies." I hit the keys furiously. "Your tapes are filled with rumor. innuendo and vicious gossip. Don't you have any shame at all?"
r:~a rry wilis ••• The lights turned red again. "No one has ever called me a liar 

Russian Immigration ••• 
before." Let me confess, at the outset, that I do not any ungrateful response from the Russians. • "You're a disgrace to IBM," I angrily typed back.
•
know any sure way of helping those Jews So: some Russians move on, while others "Thomas Watson would be turning over in his grave if he knew who want to emigrate from Russia. Senator stay and chafe. • the filth you had stored in you!"Jackson thinks they are helped by making 3) To make things even worse, the The lights turned green. "Would you like to know what I have on 
their plight a flash point of confrontation Hussians who adapt and are grateful also ~·ou'?" the printout read. between the superpowers. Secretary pose a problem. As settlements go up to •• I turned white. "What could you possibly have on me?" I typed
Kissinger believes that such an approach house them. they join the European out with my fingers shaking.
•
just makes the Russians more intransigent: privileged class of Jews, and are • The computer clicked noisily. "The Allegheny stewardess in 
other motives for compassion or ac­resented by the Orientals who make up a Little Hock."
•
commodation, for a public-relations' majority of the Jewish population in Israel. • I almost broke my fingers. "I've never been in Little Rock in my
liberality, are blunted if we make each Furthermore, they are being put in new • life."
•
backdown, an implicit cold war victory for settlements like the Neveh Yaakov, north of • "Then maybe it was Kansas City." us. "Allegheny doesn't fly to Kansas City." I typed back.
Jerusalem, which will inevitably become 
1<-:ach side has an argument, and a fairly the centers of dispute when occupied "Then maybe it was the Hertz Rent-A-Car girl," the computergood one. Yet I tend to think that on this territories have to be turned back. And • l'l'plied. "I ean't remember everything."
•
point Kissinger is right. I would be hap­these fugitives from Russia are hawkish, • pier with Senator Jackson's view if he did selling the ranks of the hard-line Likud •• not seem willing to settle for a loss of party in its fight with the ruling Labor DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
prestige on the Russians' part, without any coalition. • actual freeing of the Jews. Having said all this, I must add that the •• 
The Israelis themselves rejoice in plight of those Jews who truly wish to leave .Jackson's rhetoric, even if it slows the real Hussia and reach Israel is an urgent and mflux of the Russians. But they are touching one. The Israeli government had • thinking, naturally, of their survival as a three such immigrants waiting to talk to our nation. which they think demands cold war visiting group at the Mevasseret Zion ab­• losses on Russia's part. And, to tell the sorption center. Two were women (a • 
; 
0
truth, emigrants from Russia are potential cardiologist and physicist), one a man •• l'mbarrassment to Israel right now. For (another physicist). The woman physicist, • three reasons: Hannah Levin. escaped with her husband • 
1> Those emigrants reachingVienna now after they spent over two years at menial opt. by a great and increasing majority, to work as a maid and janitor--the government go Plsewhere instead of on toward Israel. had fired them both from university work • There are a number of reasons for this. The when they applied for visas. l'migrants so far are fairly well equipped • professional people, and they can make And those successful immigrants have • their way in modern society. The Jewish harrowing news about those they left professional classes, despite support for behind. "Do anything you can." Mrs. Levin Israel, have stayed in developed countries said, "to help our friends.' One of them is the long before the question of Russian leading physicist in the country--Or. Mark l'migration arose. Asbel, who has been on a hunger strike for 

2> Those Russians who have come to months. We have had no news from him 
Israel raise problems. They are recently. And our friend Vladimir Mark­educated professionals in a society already man is due out of prison any day now, yet his 
glutted with them <fifty percent of Israelis fate is uncertain " 
are employed in services, despite the 
country's "beginner" status on an These people who have made safe harbor 
historical scale l. Those who have fled in Israel feel that pressure from the West 
Hussian collectives are at odds with the helps those still trapped in Russia. I hope 
kibbutz mystique of Israel's Pioneers and they are right. The famous, those whose 
government elite. Some immigrants tend to names are known, who are sometimes 
have an idealized view of Israeli society-­visited by journalists or touring 
one quickly dispelled and leading to bit­congressmen, who can be mentioned in the 
terness. Meanwhile, Israel is spending huge Western press,may reach the friends and 
sums to import and domesticate these the freedom they long for. It is to be ]Joped 
Hussians--$100,000 per family according to that Drs. Asbel and Markman end in that 
.Jewish Agency figures--and the country number, and rejoin their fellows here in 
cannot be expected to admire what seems Israel. 
YOIII<!lJIJJ, UNCi£ f)(JKC, 
!TPBeALOT ti/5/ER 70 fACE AU lJIESf CR/5&5/F YOU YOU IU&R£N'T A/iJN£. tullYDIIJN'T PJHAT?! 
YOU 8RIN61/WNG AUNT I
SANOY? 
" 
OH .. /JUKE, OUKE! 

·------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, February 7,1975 the observer 
7 

Letters to a Lonely God 

blow the trumpet, proclaim a fast 


If I were boney or bad-tempered enough to be a prophet--for prophets, I always imagine, are skinny, mean-tempered nags; it goes with their being thorns in the flesh, pains in the neck--1 would invite you to join with me in keeping an old-fashioned Lent. You know the kind of Lent I mean: forty days of fast and abstience, with desserts omitted, cigarettes sacrificed, and the Stations of the Cross on Fridays. I am not boney, of course, nor do I care to be; though I am the son of a man named Jeremiah, I think he reg~rded me as an unprophet-able child, but my native juices are as sweet as those of a nectarine. Still I'm in the mood for sackcloth and ashes. Lent, this year, demands something heroic if we are going to keep the ship of state and church afloat. They are waiting in Nineveh for Jonah to preach; may be our prayer and fasting is our only way of announcing that old Jonah has arrived. 
Fasting--as long as it is not institutional fasting, as prescribed by the Church--seems to have become fashionable as a gesture of protest or of heightening awareness. I remember students fasting during the Vietnam War. A group of them decided to spend a weekend fasting on the steps of the Administration Building as a signal to Mr. Nixon of their concern over our Asian in­volvement. Sometime Saturday night, it began snowing. But they remained there, wrapped in blankets, trying to keep warm with coffee, huddled together in the darkness. When I went to bed, I lay awake thinking about the poor dears, wondering if Mr. Nixon was noticing their sacreifice of comfort, but terribly afraid that even if he knew. he still wouldn't give a damn. 
Recently, of course, we have had the tea and sympathy meals on campus as an ex­presssion of concern for world hunger. Such efforts are most praise-worthy and deserving of support; but would it be churlish to suggest that if this simplified dining is to be considered as part of a fast, as it is sometimes described, it should not be followed up by an immediate trip to the Huddle? Reports say that last Sunday, the local hamburger joints were crowded with students, many of them with rice in their teeth and reeking of tea. Financially, the Hunger Coalition would have been better off 
Walk up to anyone on the street. Ask him who Joe Namath is. No problem, right? Now try Robert Redford. Sure enough. Archie Bunker? Why, everyone knows him. How about Arthur Honnegar'? Who? Never mind. Ever heard of Eliot Carter? Huh? Peter Mennon? No. Roger Sessions? Can't say I have. Karlheinz Stockhausen? Is that a person or a place? How about Mr. Wip­ple? Please don't squeeze the Charmin, right? Right. 
In fact only one out of every thousand Americans would be likely to identify Honnegar, Mennon, Sessions, and Stockhausen and that is a generous estimate at best. All of these men are contemporary composers. All have spent much of their creative Jives in relative obscurity. All have tasted the frustration of an irresponsive public. All have, at one time or another, known that somewhere in their studio lies a boxful of unpublished manuscripts. Fr. Carl Hager is one of these men. His Hommage a llonnPgar for saxaphone and orchestra will receive its world premiere by the Elkhart Symphony on Sunday February 9, 1975. After that its future, like that of most modern music, will be uncertain at best. 
Born in South BP.nd in 1911, Carl Hager earned his bachelor's degree in philosophy from Notre Dame in 1935. He was ordained to the priesthood on June 24, 1939 and in 1941 received a master's degree in English from the same institution. The years Ul39-1947 found him as director of the Moreau Seminary Choir and a professor of English at Notre Dame. 
His formal musical training, however, did 
not begin until the age of thirty -five when 
he studied at De Paul University in Chicago 
under the Russian composer Alexander 
Echerepnin (Alexander who? l. In 1950 he 
reverend robert griffin~ 
if those students had paid them the Burger Chef rates instead of the seventy-five cents per head saved from their supping as usual in the dining hall. Those students intent upon sacrifice should remember that the fast, if envisioned, as such should continue un­broken until the time of the next regular meal. It is quite acceptable, of course, merely to share a meal of tea and rice as a ritual of brotherhood, postponing the more fleshly undertakings in dining until later in the evening. But a solidarity with the starving masses is more observable if a time of fast is part of the schedule of the event; at least, it seems so to me. 
We know there are Christians, appalled by Biafra, depressed by Vietnam, who sometimes fast. But I ask myself: am I still enough of a Christian to fast when noone is observing or supporting me, when it is a solitary act of mortification? This is one of the kinds of fasting Jesus asked for: "But when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face, so that men may not see that you are fasting, but only your Father who is in the secret place ... " 
There was a time when all of us, who were old enough, used to fast in accord with the discipline of the Church: two ounces of food in the morning; eight ounces for lunch or supper; only one full meal at noontimeilr at night; no eating between meals; no meat on Friday. Then the law was changed to be more sensitive to individual needs: only one full meal,taken at night or noon; the other two meals together should not equal another full meal; no eating between meals; no meat on Fridays. 
Now , of course, there are only two days of fast and abstinence that are obligatory: Ash Wednesday and Good Firday. No Catholic over seven should eat meat on those days; all Catholics over twenty one must fast on those days. It is recommended, or in some dioceses prescribed, that meat should be abstained from during the Fridays of Lent. But Catholics over twenty one are still encouraged to keep the old Lenten fast, if they wish to. 
Does it sound familiar? Does it sound 
useful? Does it sound negative? Does it 
sound like something I need to do? "Who 
would it help." I ask. 
"Why, dummy, it would help you," I say to myself, "as a health measure and as a way of reducing your clumsy figure." 

"Is that why the Church observes Lent as a season of penance," I object: "So that you can be a better looking man at Easter than you were on Ash Wednesday?" 
"Don't knock it," I answer, humming a few bars from the hit-hymn of the Methodists, "Brighten the Corner Where You Are." 
I think of the world as our age knows it: chaotic, brawling, indifferent for the most part to global suffering; broken, bruised, bleeding, dying. I think of the mandate of service laid upon us to be healers, saviours, nurses, ministers. "Tom Dooley, I am not," I say to myself; "nor Albert Schweitzer, nor Thomas Merton, nor Dorothy Day, nor do I want to be so dedicated a Christian." Someone says: if the world is not going to die, do you have any other choice than to imitate these great souls? 
I think of a reading I did last Sunday: "Zorba, forever on my mind. I curse and love you because I am what I am.. .llong to release the gypsy in me who would roam the earth, tasting, sampling, traveling light. There are so many lives I want to live, so many styles I want to inhabit. In me sleeps Zorba 's concern to allow no lonely woman to remain comfortless <Here I am, Lord--send me! l Camus's passion to lessen the suf­fering of the innocent, Hemingway's drive to live and write with lucidity, and the unheroic desire to see each day end with tranquillity and a shared cup of tea." 
I am Zorba the Greek dancing; yet the world needs me as Dooley the doctor, healing. I am not free to be Zorba; but I do not have the courage to be Dooley ; I do not have his discipline, his spirit of sacrifice. The basic tension of my life is between being free to be me-sensual, self-seeking, ex­periencing--and being the person, grown superb in the art of self-denial, whom my fallen brother reaches out to. Maybe the reconciliation between being me, and being the person my brotherneeds, is what a Lent is for. If so, wherever Easter shall find me, I hope Zorba will not leave me altogether. "I should not like to live without dancing." 
The other evening, I was brooding over the fate of the little ones that Fr. Hesburgh, AI Sondej, and Don McNeill ask us to at-

homage to whom? 
joined the music faculty at Notre Dame and was appointed chairman of that department in 1955, a capacity in which he served until the fall of 1971. 
As a child, Fr. Hager had four years of piano study. Then the money ran out. He would drag his parents out to the campus every Sunday during the summer to hear the then famous organist Wilhelm Mid­dleschulte perform. The first symphony concert he ever saw was in 1927 when a make-shift group of musicians got together at Notre Dame for a program of Haydn. 
South Bend, Indiana, if I may be given to understatement, has never been a hot-bed of musical activity. Carl Hager's musical motivation therefore was necessarily in­ter:nal. By his own admission, "It's a hell of a hard field." Only 5-7 per cent of the total population have the right combination of 'ear and body chemistry' that is amenable to classical music. 
Though he has taught for the past twenty­four years Fr. Hager insists that music appreciation courses are in a large part a 'waste of time'. It is not difficult to see that most students are just 'trying to fill out their fine arts requirement.' One year when he forgot to close his class out at fifty, the enrollment ran up so high that the course had to be taught in Washington Hall to an audience of several hundred. The somewhat innacurate evaluation of that semester which claimed that Fr. Hager's average grade was 'A' was presumed to have played no small part in the courses' inflated popularity. Fr. Hager is no fool. He realizes that in any given semester there will be five students at most who are capable of understanding the music. The remaining 95 per cent? A lost cause says 

a preview by bob pitt 
Hager. "It isn't because they don't try. 
They just haven't got it." 
Carl Hager's catalogue is varied in 
content. His Mass for Three Voices was first sung at the University of Notre Dame commencementexercises in 1947. The Trio for Violin, Viola,and Cello was premiered at the Midwestern Composers Symposium held at Northwestern University in 1949. Grand Concourse, a piano suite, received its first performance at Miami University, Oxford, Ohio in 1955. The Notre Dame Concert Band has also played several of his 
compositions on tour. 
llommage a Honnegar, which will make 
its debut this February, was written at 'odd 
moments' between classes. The actual 
composition took little more than three 
weeks. The orchestration, however, 
required some two months to complete. 
Scored for two flutes; two oboes; two 
clarinets; two bassoons; contra-bassoon; 
three horns; two trumpets; two trombones; 
one harp; percussion; strings; and solo 
saxaphone, Hommage will demand a 
maximum effort from the Elkhart Sym­
phony. 

Fr. Hager, though, wrote Hommage with 
the Symphony's peculiar limitations in 
mind. Instead of putting it in a difficult 
twelve-tone idiom which he insists 'no large 
ensembel around here can play effectively' 
the work is structured in the style of 
twentieth-century post-impressionism (a Ia 
Arthur Honnegarl which is readily ac­
cessible to both localmusicianand audience. 
Past experience had taught him that some 
stylistic compromise was necessary if the 
work was to be performed by part-time 
musicians. "After all", said Fr. Hager, 
"you hate to be a continuous flop" tent1ve to, when I read the following: "The secret, Father-God is always there ... And it is his will that not one of his children should perish. Such is the serenity of the teaching of Christ, the God-filled man." 
Would you believe that after all the recent reminders of world-hunger, those lines, and others with them, caused me a small crisis {)f faith? If God is such a hot-shot as a Father, I said to myself,why are children starving? Whose fault is it that they are starving? Nobody, I said to myself; sometimes <but not always) it's the fault of the weather. Weatht>r patterns change; droughts occur; and races that have been surviving for hundreds of years begin to die. ••
Nobody did this to them. But there are fathers and mothers who are praying, and J still the kids die. Big deal that God is Abba 4 and Daddy, if He lets kids die. A 
It was my little buddy Barbara who reminded me of the truth that has always • kept my faith intact. "God let His own son • die," she said. "The suffering of children is • part of His passion." • 
It was stupid of me to have forgotten. That little insight of Barbara's doesn't explain anything; but remembering the experience of Jesus makes the difference, for me, between trust and despairing:it is a mystery and paradox of faith that the lives God is most attentive to, are affairs of in­nocence stretched out on crosses. Sometimes God seems to nail us up good. Just when we think He has abandoned us, we find He is still there, taking the raps along with us. Sometimes the scene is Biafra; sometimes, it's Bangladesh; alway~ it is Calvary. Lent is the meditation that brings all suffering together as the earth-tide sorrow over which the Father grieves. 
Somewhere in '75,there must be prophets; perhaps those prophets are us. If so, I can only point the reproachful and boney finger at myself: Blow the trumpet in Zion, proclaim a solemn Fast, appoint a day of ab­stinencP ... Let the priests, the ministers of thP Lord, stand weeping between the porch and the altar and say, 'Spare thy peopl, 0 Lord, thy own people, lest other nations makl' thPm a byword and everywhere men ask, "Where is their God?" 
The work itself is in the spirit of Honnegar, • a composer noted for his religiously inspired • works for chorus and orchestra, e.g. King • David and Joan of Arc. It is based upon • Gregorian chant themes dating from­~ medieval times, which were for centuries a part of the Roman Catholic liturgy. 
The themes in this one movement work 

l
<approximately twelve minutes long) suggest, in the words of the composer, 'aspects found in the life of any man. The prelude suggests the spirit of lifesoaring like an eagle over the earth. The birth of man is announced. But since we start to die even as we are born, the theme of death <Dies Irae) is also introduced. The vigor and struggles of youth are suggested. The saxaphone is the voice of man. The forebodings of death 
recede. The romantic sentiments of youth arise. There is a climax, after which the old vigor is diminished and the theme of death becomes more pronounced. The theme In Paradisum <in Paradise) implies the hope of a more meaningful destiny beyond life, while the spirit oflife still hovers over the ('arth.' 
The saxaphone soloist will be Dennis Bamber, a member of the applied music faculty at the University of Notre Dame. Fr. Hager claims that there is nothing particularly difficult in his part with perhaps the exception of the rhythm inone section which should admittedly 'strain him a little'. Zigmont Gaska, music director of the Elkhart Symphony will conduct. 
So after February 9, 1975 a few more people on the streets of Elkhart will recognize the name of Honnegar. 
The concert begins at 4 p.m. in the Memorial High School Auditorium, 2608 California Road, Elkhart. 
Friday, February 7, 1975
the observer 

Economic woes affect teaching profession 
(continued (rom naee 1) 
those who are hired are the pick of 
the crop? If this is true. then is the 
overall quality of college education 
becoming increasingly better? 
"We have a surplus of teachers 
in the country today, but in 
quantity only," Prof. Eugene 
Campanale, chairman of the 
t•ducation department at SMC, 
stated. "I think the quality of 
education will rise only if 
universities can bring in people 
who are tried, proven and 
dedicated," he added. 
"I don't think a Ph.D. makes you 
a better teacher," Campanale 
continued. '"You don't necessarily 
have to have a Ph.D. to be 
qualified, but the society and 
economy of the times more or less 
df.'mands it because a surplus of 
tf.'achers does Pxist," he added. "If 
~·ou are going to pay someone, he 
might as well be a Ph.D. with 
cxpPrif.'nce," r::ampanale said. 
Sele<·tive Recruitment 

The number of applications 
hPing submitted continue to in­
<Tease. Statistics show that the 
number of Ph.D.'s entering the 
market has just doubled in the 
course of a decade. Yet this is 
not necessarily the only reason for 
applications being up in number. 
lkpartments can recruit more 
selectively than before, but the 
figures indicating a surplus can be 
decPptive," Fr. James T. Burt­
chaell, University provost, 
cautioned. 
"Applicants now are applying to 
many. many more institutions 
than before. It's analagous to the 
increase in students applying to 
professional," he said. "So it 
really i~ not completely accurate 
that the total number of people 
looking for appointments has in­
creased so enormously." 
Research universities like Notre 
Dame have always been able to 
select its faculty from among the 
best in the educational field. While 
Notre Dame does benefit from the 
greater selectivity, others benefit 
much more. 
"Where there is increased 
selectivity, generally those hired 
are better," Burtchaell con­
tinued. "Improvements in the 
selectivity picture for universities 
like Notre Dame will show only 
moderate benefits in quality of the 
new faculty members," he stated. 
"The institutions that are really 
benefitting are those that in the 
past could only be less selective," 
the provost explained. "They now 
are able to interview candidates 
who are immensely better than 
they were previously able to look 
at." Burtchaell said. 
Reactions vary 
(continued from page 1) 
Sinnott stressed the un<·ertainty of the plan. "As it looks now." she stated, "it would he harmful to grad students to move us out of the dorm spt•cifically designed for grad students into a makeshift situation and maybe nothing after that. <;raduate students are an im­portant part of life on campus; moving them around shows a lack of concern. On the other hand, moving the undergrad women also shows a lack of concern." 
Sinnott added that since the cl<•cision is made, there is nothing to do excPpt "get the Graduate StudPnt llnion moving" on the new housing complex. 
.Joanne Erdman. another Lewis n•sidcnt. commt•nted, "The move to Badin might hurt the graduate studl'nts. Thl' situation in Badin is not good for graduate life. Some studl'nts might start mo ~ingl off campus. Lewis is great for graduate study: it is convenient, but not in the center of campus." 
LPwis has been a graduate women's dormitory since 1965. It was constructed in that year with a $1 million grant from the Frank J. 
Li.•wis fo'oundation.
. 
"So these schools that are lower in competitive ability are the ones most significantly profiting from the present economic situation," Burtchaell surmised. "Research universities like Notre Dame are not so likely to notice the dif­ference so much," he added. 
"It's sensible to suggest that the educational quality of an in­stitution gets better as selectivity increases," Rathburn said. "But it is different from school to school. Indeed, it would b(! a very short­
sightedschool which is not able to improve immediately the quality of its faculty," Rathburn con­cluded. 
Prof. Edward Trubac, president of the Notre Dame chapter of the AAUP, agreed. "Universities can afford to be more selective in certain areas where the faculty is strong in the subject matter," he said. 
Factors afff.'cting hiring 

With the numbers of applicants for teaching positions increasing, Pstablished universities like Notre Dame can be and are very selective in whom they hire. Besides the academic qualifications, other aspects are considered in the hiring process; here at t:otre Dame. 
In his address to the Academic Council on December 5, 1974, Burtchaell expressed his views on the hiring of minorities. 
"Women and minorities should be included in our company, not so much because they claim it as their right, but because we need them," the provost said. "It is of positive. educational value to have an integrated academic com­munity, and it is inappropriate to exclude considerations at the time of appointments," Burtchaell noted. 
Yet another aspect that can be considered in making new ap­pointments is the issue of the Catholic character of the university. The recommendation made in the 1973 report by the 
Committee on University 

Priorities (COUPl was that "If 
the university is to have a Catholic 
character, it is obvious that all who 
play a role in recruitment should 
exercise care to attract and ap­
point from among the most 
competenty scholars and scientists 
available, those who are articulate 
believers." 

In view of the recommendation 
in the COUP report, yet another 
factor enters into consideration in 
hiring new faculty, according to 
Burtchaell. 

"Faculty appointments actually are initiated by the department chairman or college dean who make the nominations. The role of the provost is along the lines of approving the nomination," Burtchaell explained. 
The economic situation also 
affects the granting of tenure 
which commits the university to 
providing for the faculty member 
for life. 

"Schools are becoming more and more reluctant in granting tenure because tenured faculty receive a large salary that is guaranteed to continue coming in," Rathburn said. "Tenured faculty who leave for varwus reasons are not always being replaced," he said. 
''In a lot of cases, teachers are heing asked to teach larger and larger course loads." Rathburn pointed out. "However, Notre Dame is very good in that regard, because, to the best of my knowledge, it's not happening 
here. And I hope it doesn't ever happen because the quality of 
Free University 

plansnewcourse 
The Free University announced yesterday the addition of a new course llow to Found a Religion to be taught by Fr. Robert Griffin. The first step in this course will be to establish smoking as a sacrament. 
Anyone interested may register at the Student Government offices located on the second floor of LaFortune. 
---------------------------~ 

i····~·~i:i~i·c::······················~c::;~i\ii·i~~i·c::;~····~ 
•
•
i SPRING SEMESTER 
•
•
•
:
•
•
•
i 
i 
i 
:
• 
:
• 
:
• 
:
•
:
•: i 
:
• 
:
• 
: :
•
: 
i• * 
: 
i 
E 
: 
• 
FEBRUARY 
9 Duncan Williams 
8:00 pm Lib. Aud. 

11 Hans Morganthay Gov't Festival ­"Separation of Powers in the Wake of Watergate" 
8:00 pm Lib. Aud.
I
17 Genera Session: Martin Diamond 

8:00 
pm Lib. Aud. 18 Congress: Samuel Patterson 

8:00 
pm Lib. Aud. 19 Presidency: Herbert Stoking 

8:00 
pm Lib. Aud. 20 Courts: David Fellman 

8:00 
Lib. Aud. 23, 24, or 25 



Sen. James Buckley 8:00 pm Wash. Hall 
teaching immediately suffers," he concluded. 
Future possibilities 
New means of using university resources more effectively are currently in the experimental stages. Ofle possibility for ex­panding resources and increasing efficiency is to develop a con­sortium or cooperative among educational institutions. 
"I think in some respects the 
inflation is good because it has 
made educational institutions take 
cognizance of teaching methods," 
Campanale said. "And I don't 
think we really have been going 
about the education process as well 
as we could have," he added. 
"For example, if we had been 
working on a consortium basis five 
or ten years ago, we have been 
able today to offer more courses 
than can now be done," Cam­
panale said. 
"Consortium can work, but it is a 
give and take basis," the education 
department chairman continued. "Each member will have to make some concessions, but the end resuIt WI·11 be very benef'.ICJaI", he explained. "If we use our heads and plan ahead, and try to work out
r---------------------------1
BRING IN THIS AD FOR ~ $1 OFF A LARGE PIZZA vRc,, 
cooperative arrangements bringing in programs that are relative and meaningful, we'll be able to sustain the economic dif­ficulties the country is ex­periencing now and be in good shape," Campanale said. "'If we don't I think we're in for trouble, " he stated. 
Others remain dubious con­cerning its benefits. Institutions should maintain similar philosophies and goals, in addition to contributing equal amounts of resources. Burtchaell pointed out that consortia that exchange students are less likely to succeed than those which only exchange facilities, for example computer facilities. Notre Dame now par­ticipates in a facility-consortium with Indiana University Medical 
Sch()()l. ------------. 
FOR THE BEST 
L SAT 
PREPARATION CLASSES NOW FORMING TO BE HELD IN 
LAYFAYETTE, INDIANA 
ON MAR. 16. 22, APR. 6, 13 liMITED ENROLLMENT FOR INFORMATION WRITE OR 
CA3LL17 . 782-2185 
L.S.A.T. PREPARATORY SEMINAR 
7 SOUTH DEARBORN, CHICAGO. ll. 60603 

(Offer expires Feb. 15th) 


GUISEPPE'S 
Brings back the 50( Draft (during happy hour 9:30-10:30) 
DANCING TO THE 
BLUESKY BAND 
EVERY FRI. AND SAT. 
starting at 9:30p.m. 
· 0 

.f_\ 
~0 
f'f'llr#f'NN f<rf•f/ Nf•:: 
._,., ,.,,.,.,. ,.,,,.,,.. 
71:1 E. l.iaSaiiP 
( 4 Blocks West of Eddy St.) 
• 
•
•

OF EVENTS i 
•
•
•
MARCH :
•
•
• 

12 Nicholas Von Hoffman i 
8:00 pm Wash. Hall i 13 Seymour Hersh i 
8:00 pm Wash. Hall : 
: APRIL :
•

* :• • • 
8 Carles Butite :
•

30 Dr. Fayez A. Sayegh : 
8:00 pm Wash. Hall i :
•

Other Possibilities :
•

Debate between the i Teamsters & :
•

Farmworkers :
•

Series of Lectures i on Alcholic : Abuse by NIAA i 
* . ! 
Tenat1ve : 
• 

Friday, February 7,1975 the observer 
Sen. Jackson declares candidacy 
WASHINGTON (UPI) year. Pledging to "help the people in Jackson, 62, is regarded as this country who are getting the front-runner in the early hurt," Sen. Henry M. Jackson field. He already has formed a formally declared Thursday strong campaign organization, that he is running for president collected more than $1 million in 1976. and has shown up well in 
The Washington Democrat's national poll "trial heats" long-expected announcement in-against President Ford. creased to four the number of Jackson's pre-recorded five-candidates for the party's minute announcement <at 10:55 
presidential nomination next p.m. EST on CBS> 
Y 
~CSQSSlDatlQD this country who. are getting
Kenned ~ hurt," Jackson said. "For the 
past six years, the Republican 
. vestl•gatl•on refus-ed administration_ has b~en tilting
m favor of big busmess, the
ln 
DALLAS (UPil -Police Chief Donald Byrd Thursday said he will not initiate a renewed in­vestigation into the assassination of President John F. Kennedy as a result of recent contentions the killer was other than Lee Harvey Oswald. 
If reopening of the case is warranted. Byrd said, it should start with other agencies. 
Political activist Dick Gregory and a New York photographer, Robert Groden, said in Chicago this week filmed evidence shows as 
Mynah birds set the date 
TORONTO <UPI) -A rabbi announced Thursday he plans to officiate at a wedding ceremony for two talking mynah birds "because the world is in such a sad state it needs a good laugh." 
He faces a storm of protest from members of his synagogue. Rabbi Aaron Zimmerman, 56, said. "I want to gothrough with it. 
I  t'xpect  criticism  because  you  
can't  please  everybody  in  this  
world.  

"But as long as the Lord is on my -side I am not worried. The world needs a sense of humor." 
Kerr said a time and place for the feathered nuptials had not been chosen but he expected the ceremony to take place in Niagara Falls--"the honeymoon capital of the world"--by the end of the month. 
was carefully aimed at television 
watchers waiting for the late news. 
In the format of 
a campaign commercial rather 
than a speech, the purchased 
air time was used to play up 
Jackson~s strong points as a 35­
year veteran of Congress and to 
answer critics who picture him 
as more interesting in building 
bombers than helping people. 
"I would use the office of the presidency to help the people in 
-

many as four or five persons shot 
at the president in Dallas on Nov. 
22, 1963, none of them Oswald. 
Gregory and Ralph Schoeman, an author and teacher, included in a presentation to newsmen photographs they said looked like convicted Watergate conspirators 
E. Howard Hunt and Frank Sturgis among persons picked up and released by Dallas police the day Kennedy was killed. 
"I will not initiate any in­vestigation as a result of these statements made by Gregory, Groden and Schoeman," Byrd said. "I think if any investigation is made it should be by the im­paneling of a Federal Grand Jury, a Congressional investigation or the reconvening of the Warren Commission." 
A commission headed by former Chief Justice Earl Warren in­vestigated the assassination and concluded after months of study that Oswald, firing a rifle from the sixth floor of the Texas School Book Depository into a presidential motorcade on a street below, was the lone assassin. 
Gregory has said his new evidence including more to come will be taken before the Hockefeller Commission in­vestigating the Central In­telligence Agency for alleged illegal domestic activities. 
Byrd was not on the police force at the time of the assassination. He took over the Dallas post in 1973 after serving as chief at Albuquerque, N.M. 
large corporations, the people who can take care of themselm­ves. 
"And, the little people -little business, the elderly, the young, across the board -have been the ones who have been taking the beating." 
Jackson made a special effort to dispel the image of "big bang" defense spender: "I want to see arms reduced. The Valdisvostok agreement put a cap on the arms races, but they put the cap on Mount Everest ... It's going to cost billions of dollars more for the defense budget." 
Jackson avoided direct criti­cism of Ford, but used part of the broadcast for a film clip of an earlier confrontation with Agriculture Secretary Earl Butz over the 1972 Russian wheat purchase. 
The program narration also emphasized that Jackson had been rated "by a Ralph Nader poll as the most effective senator on Capitol Hill," and "by a Gallup Poll as one of the 10 most admired men in the world." 
Jackson's declared opponents are ltep. Morris K Udall, D­
Ariz., former G-ov. Jimmy Carter of Georgia and former Sen. Fred R. Harris of Oklahoma. 
Sen. Lloyd M. Bentson . D­Tex., is expected to join the field Feb. 17, and Gov. George 
C. Wallace of Alabama is edging toward formal an-
Boston doctor accused of murder in abortion case 
BOSTON (UPI> -A medical 
research expert testified Thursday 
that an aborted fetus a Boston 
doctor is accused of killing had "no 
significant" chance of survival. 
Dr. Kenneth C.'Edelin is on trial 
accused of manslaughter following 
the death of a 11 2 pound fetus 
during an abortion he performed 
on October, 3, 1973, at the request 
of a woman about six months 
pregnant. 
Defense witness Dr. Charles 
Hendrick's testimony was based 
on a study of more than 28,000 
newborn infants during 1956-66. 
The state contends the fetus had developed enough to survive, and that Edelin either intentionally or inadvertently let it suffocate by hesitating for "at least three 'minutes" in mid-operation before 
delivery. 
"There's no significant chance that the child might have had meaningful life outside the uterus," Hendricks testified. 
His testimony in the 23rd day ot the trial was introduced to bolster the defense position that Edelin could not have committed man­slaughter since there was no potential human victim. 
Hendricks, head of the Ob­stetrics Department at the University of North Carolina, told the 13-man, 3-woman jury that said his study found no fetus of the same weight which survived delivery long enough to be released from the hospital. 
The smallest survivors Hen­dricks found in his study weighed 735 grams, at least 35 grams more than the hghest estimated weight of Edelin's alleged victim, he said. And only two of the 28,500 fetuses he studied weighed that little and survived. 
Hendricks' testimony followed similar pessimistic estimates of the possible survival of Edelin's alleged victim from two medical experts from the Boston area--a professor emeritus from Harvard University and the director of newborn services at Boston City Hospital where the abortion and alleged crime occurred. 
IN CONCERT 





HELEN REDDY 
with Special Guest 

PETER ALLEN THIS SUN. FEB. 9th 8:00 P.M. 
Ticket Prices 

Bleachers _______ $4.50 Lower Arena _____ $5.50 Floor, Loge ______ $6.50 and Platforms ____ $6.50 
Concert Tickets Now on Sale 
NOTRE DAME, A.C.C. 
Mon. -Sot. 9 to 5 
Also 1 hour 
before showtime on Sunday 
NOTRE DAME 
ATHLETIC AND CONVOCATION CENTER 


nouncement of his candidacy. Mass., took himself out of 1976 
Of this group, only Wallace has presidential consideration. The 
ranked near Jackson in early withdrawal of Sen. Walter F. 
public opinion polls. Mondale, D-Minn., a short time 
Jackson's candidacy got its later also was regarded as ,biggest boost last fall when eliminating a potentially tough·Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-rival for the nomination. 

I li\'1' in Sm·in llall. and our food sales has been closed for about a wt•t•k now. Do ~·ou know when it will be opened again? 
The Sorin Food-Sales was closed because there was a change in ownership, but it is now open for business. Its hours are from 11 through midnight Sunday through Friday. 
\\'ht'n do tht' 1\"orth Dining IIall meal validation numbers have to be t'11angt'd b~-·~ 
North Dining Hall meal validation numbers will be changed from l\londay, Feb. 10 through Thursday, Feb. 13, in the office of the North Dining Hall. You will not be allowed to eat dinner on Thursday unless you have your new number. 
\\'ht•n is tht' Knights of Columbus Formal, and can I still get tickets t'or it·~ 
The Knights of Columbus Formal dinner-dance will be held in the lloliday Inn in Niles, Michigan on Feb. 14, Valentines Day. Today 1s the last day you can get the invitations for it. For reservations and further information call the Knights of Columbus at 7018. 
\\'ill tht•J"t' bt' a "Quickie" running this weekend? 
There will not be a "Quickie" running this Friday. The next scheduled running of the "Quickie" is on Saturday, Feb. 22. 
\\'hpn is 1\lickt'~-!\louse's birthday? 
1\lickey l\1ouse first came into being on November 28, 1928. The title of the cartoon he was first in is Steamboat Willy. 
:\OTE: Tlw Ombudsman St'rvice is ready and wit ing to answer _vour tJnt•stions and solve your problems, just call us at 7638 week­da_vs !I::IH to :i:UU and Monday through Thursday evenings 10:00 to 111 idnighl. 
SUNDAY J\AASSES  
N\AIN GiURCH  
SAT SUN SUN SUN  5:15PM 9:30AM 10:45 AM 12:15 PM  FR. BOB GRIFFIN, CSC FR. ED MALLOY, CSC FR. JAMES B. SHAUGHNESSY FR. BILL TOOHEY  


Acareer in law­
WithOUt laW SChOOl. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the six courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 700 graduates in law firms. banks. and corporations in over 60 cities. 
If you are a student of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant. we'd like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 
TUESDAY,FEBRUARY11 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 
Indiana T. Reg. #AC0035 






Helen Reddy 
includes hergold single(3972) Angie Babyand hernewsmash single (4021) 
EMOTION 

Management: Produced by JEFFWALD JOEWISSERT 
0 
Capitol® 
' •. • • • • • • • ' -••• f ~ 


~~qr \~ '(1611"1ri9=1 ''(&i>i1=t i·svisc:·do·:grh 01 Friday~February 1, 1975 th-e observ-er. 1 1 .. 
St. Mary's dumps ND in first meeting, 53-46 
If there's one rivalry more in­beaten Marion College of In­Helping Grace for St. Mary's tense than Notre Dame-Southern dianapolis 31-26. Notre Dame was the ever-popular "Mad Cal, NO-UCLA or the Irish and dropped to 0-3 in its first season of dog" Maddox who also had 14 Michigan State, it might be Notre varsity competition. points. Dame and St. Mary's. Yesterday 
St. Mary's pivotwoman, Karen
the women of both schools got a The game was a see-saw affair 
Crane. was the big gun for the
chance to further the competition until midway through the first half 
winners scoring a game-high 15
on the basketball court in the when St. Mary's ran up eight
points and grabbing numerous
A.C.C's main arena. straight points giving the cross­
rebounds. The 6'1'' center 
road girls a 24-16 lead. The Irish And this time at least. St. Mary's prevented the Irish from driving didn't come close after that has a right to claim superiority. the lane forcing Mary Clemency although in the waning moments SMC downed the Notre Dame and .Judy Shiely, who has an in­they did manage to narrow the gap cagers or cagerettes, if you will, credible over-the-head set shot, to to four. 

!i:3-4!l before :m enthusiastic crowd gun from the outside. of over :~oo. 
Both Clemency and Shiely were Rut a quick SMC hoop and a foul In winning. St. Mary's upped its superb in a losing effort accounting later. the Irish were out of it, and season record to 2-o having already for 11 and 14 points respectively. at !Past for the time being, coach 
Knight gaining with experience 
when he was filtering through his soon so that he can begin con­
(continued from page 12) 
collegiate offerings, and still looks centrating on courses in that field. beyond basketball when con­"It's more than just broad­we're supposed to do as a unit." 
sidering his future. casting." he explains. "It'sToby feels that the '74-'75 Irish "I came to Notre Dame for the writing, directing, screenplays,definitely play a different style of 
ball than when he was in­degree," Knight contends. "The advertising, anything having todo way things are in the real world, with television. I want a degree in 
doctrinated here as a freshman you have to have people in back of something that I'm interested inlast year. 
you, you have to know someone. If and that I can use. Eventually, I'd"I didn't know what to expect you have the Notre Dame name like to try for law school or somewhen I came here. It was a .. 
behind you better
pleasant surprise to see the team you, have a other type of graduate school." 
chance of making it, it's going to be But for Toby, that's still a longdo so good," Knight explains. 
the difference in getting a job." ways off, and he has more pressing"Now we're missing so many "I looked at basketball like I'm things on his mind. Like winningpeople from last year, but wejust not going be playing it the rest of the rest of their games andmakinghave to go with what we have. We 
have to a more controlled my life," he continues. "I had a the NCAA tournament, despite
play chance to go to some other good Wednesday's setback at the hands 
running game, which is fine basketball schools, but their of Michigan State.
because I've alwaysliked playing a names just weren't as potent. ''We had a couple of games in arunning game. That's what we Also. I was impressed with the row, we had momentum," .Knight
played inhigh school." 
enthusiasm of the students." says. ''We can't let oneloss stop it. 
Despite his involvement in Knightpoints out also the burden Our goal all season has been
basketball here, Toby is acutely of the student-athlete. He com­tomake a post-season tour­aware of the academic aspect of 
ments that the traveling is not so nament."
eollege, especially at Notre Dame. 
grueling as the almost-daily "We know we can win if weHe was concerned with more than practices that take up three to four concentrate on what we're sup­just basketball considerations 
hours of the day. "That's four posed to be doing," he adds. the observer hours that. if I wasn't a student­"We've already played the best; athlete. I would be working or when wcget to the tournament,
Night Editor -· Rick Blower 
resting," Knight says. we'II know what we're up against."
Assistant Night Editor -· Maggie 
Planning to major in com­When the Irish's opponents drive 
Waltman 
munication-arts, Toby is in­down the lane of struggle for a
Layout ·· Martha Fanning, Katie 
terested in anything to do with rebound against Toby Knight,
Kerwin 
radio or television. He hopes to they'll know what they're up
Day Editors --Maureen Flynn, 
fulfill his University requirements against too.
Mary Egan 
Copy Readers --Ken Girouard, Bob Radziewicz 
SPHING BREAK TRIP TO 

Editorials ·· Fred Graver, John Annutec 
MONTEGO BAY 
Features .. J. August Lizza, J. Robert Baker 
JAMAICA 

Sports .. Greg Corgan 
ROlJND TRIP VlA AIR JAMAICA FROM DETROIT
Typists ·· Don Roos, Anne Peeler, Jim Landis, Mary Tobin, Rick 1\ DAYS, 7 NIGHTS AT LUXlJRIOUS MONTEGO BAY HOLIDAYINN Huber, Camille Arrieh 
MARCH 22-29 $332 per person
Compugraphic --John Kuhn 
. $50 DEPOSITS DUE BY FRI. FEB 1~! ­
Late Typist --Martha Fanning 
Picture Screener --Albert D'An­
CALL 272-9895 OR STOP BY S.U. TICKET OFFICE 
tonio 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION. 
Night Controller -· Dave Rust 
SPONSORED BY ST. JOE BANK TRAVEL AGENCY 
Happy Birthday, Maggie!! 
~ {:( -{;:r ~ .. A {I ~ * >-'1... THE GIANT GYPSY PANDA fr 'I"'\. I 
M -"\\ HAS THE AREA'S FINEST r A
1r----------------------------------------W ~ "Y I
I I ~  J;;l ;-I\_'""V ~ {;:( ~ fr .I;). -t!  J::/.. >:­ ~ -1< 9 ..]\.., ~ J.... 'W \1" {:r A S:;1  {l  {r  OF Collectable Wearables ' PANDA'S 'The"TOP"DEALER IN THE 100 CENTER Clothes for Your Mind and  h.(  J ,:J>j.J  ~  ~  I* I* I  
I ~I {l~I J;r  ~  11  ,,  {1  "1r-\  ~  ~  II I !} I  
I~' I ~ I  {!.!}~*I l:J. ~ I ~ r? I  
I~!  ~~ w~  
I  ~  
I  
I  

Jeanne Earley and her squad are host Ball State in the A.C.C. after still looking for the first win. the South Carolina game. They The Irish women will get another have a rematch scheduled with St. chance this Saturday when they Mary's for Feb. 22. 
Wrestlers, fencers slated 
Both the wrestling team and fencing team will be home this weekend. 
Coach Fred Pechek's wrestlers will face Illinois St., Wisconsin-Parkside 
and Wheaton tomorrow afternoon in the ACC's auxiliary gym. Mike 
DeCicco fencers will battle Detroit, Indiana, Marquette and the 
University of Chicago Saturday at the ACC. The women will face In­
diana. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED HASH BROWN BLUES BAND NOW AVAILABLE FOR YOUR PARTY, DANCE, OR FORMAL.
Housekeeper. part-time. 272-4894. 
FOR FURTHER INFORMArtON,Top dollar. 
CALL 272-989;. 
Severa I students need people to TICKETS FOR THE PLAY "THE1nake conversation with us in 
RIVER NIGER" TO BE
Spanish, very little tutoring. Call PRESENTED BY THE SOUTH I
259·7753 about 9 pm. 
BEND BROADWAY THEATRE LEAGUE AT THE MORRISNeed ride to I.U. Bloomington any 
CIVIC ON THURSDAY,.
weekend before break. Call Tim, 
FEBRUARY 13 ARE NOW ON
8382. 

SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION .TICKET OFFICE. $1.00
Please! 1 need a ride to the PIH­DISCOUNT ON ALL TICKETSsburgh area this weekend. Call Sue FOR ND-SMC STUDENTS. 
now at 284-4362. Urgent. 
Addis Olympic Jerseys on sale . S3.50 S6.00. ~39 Stanford, or 8773.
FOR SALE Disciplinary action hanging over

22" B&W console TV. Very good vour head? Call Student Govt,condition. $50. 272·0871. 
7668. We may be able to help. 
A set of weights (metal plate). Total weight 90 lbs plus 25 lb bar. 
FOR RENTBest offer. 272·9895. 
503 W. Jefferson duplex. 3 rooms,BSR Tt 8 track, AM-FM stereo, second floors. Gas heat furnished. 
pre amp 2 Kenwood 2-way 
289 6307' 234 0596. 
speakers. SlSO • Phone 289-3365. 
P.A. system tor rent. Call Archie,Garrard turntable, electrophonic 
232·4967. receiver. Realistic 1.000 speakers. 
$250.00. Phone 8709. 
Houses ran9in9 from two to seven 
bedrooms. Completely furnished. Beqinner's camera outfit: May or 234·
Available for Sept.Mamiya Sckor 500 TL, SOmm f2, 
9364. SOOn''" 18 telephoto and 2x, Sol igor teleconvertcr. All cases included. $320.00. Phone 8709. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: lonq, white and blue knitted scarf. possibly ''ear S. Dming Hall. 
NOTICES Rrward. C.lll 3694. 

It's cominq' "The Music Lovers," Lost· nf Nickie's Fri. nite 
March 16. 
overcoat and wallet. Please call John. 282 1039. Reward. 
Accurnte. !nsf typing northeast section of South Bend. Reasonable. 
Lost: one blue stocking cap on 
232 0746. 
No,·th Qui1d on Thursday. Call Tim R977. 
Responsible students desire to rent n1otorhomc for 10 days (March 21­
Found: 1 pr. qlasses, copper
30) lor !rip lo Florida. Will pay frames. •n D 1. Call Mag9ie, 6814. 
well. Ci'lll Trace. 234-1889. 
Found· pr. or qlasses (brown).
"YOU'VE GOTTA HAVE 
C<1ll Boll, 8697. 
HEART" CHARITY DANCE, SAT., FEB. 8TH, 9:30 PM TIL 
Found: set of keys found on NO 12:30 AM. DENNIS BAMBER nve.. opposite Library. Call 8428. 
QUARTET. CHRIST THE KING SCHOOL GYM, U.S. 31 NORTH 
PERSONALS
AND DARDEN, SOUTH BEND. SPONSORED BY SOCIAL AC­
Gay Students of Notre Dame: an 
TION, CHRIST THE KING 
or9anization of persons interested 
CATHOLIC CHURCH. FREE 
in sharin9 with others an im­
REFRESHMENTS. ADMISSION: 
portant i'lSpect of their lives. P.O. 
$3.50 SINGLE, $7.00 COUPLE. 
Box 1702, South BPnd, Ind, 46601. 
TICKETS: MARY FREL -272­4495. 
Wanted: o•H' Iall handsome toad tor the Prz Qut>en's birthday. For
Money? Morrissey Loan will lend interviews call 52U2. 
up to $150 tor 30 days, 1 day waiting period. Bilsemcnt of LaFortune. 
Koren P

Daily, 11:15 to 12:15. 
The Association of the Friends of Chicken Wlll<iS wishes lo invite youCar problems? Come to Hottman join. your AFCW
Bros, Eddy"' Madison. Wholesale to See loci>l 
representative in your hall.
prices toN D SMC student, faculty, and staff do il yourselfers. Repair service illso i'lvailable. Since 1929. Happy Birthday, Dirty Dragon, 234 0191. from Rude, Crude, and Unat­
tractive Join our North East Day Care parent cooperative. $15 a month To John K . the Mad Chemist: plus 4 hours parent participation Happy Birthday' per week. 9-S. 233-2233. Love, Maria 
MEN WOMEN! Jobs on Ships! No Trisha Ann: experience required. Excellent Happy 19th birthday Saturday pay. Worldwide travel. Perfect trom the other Patricia Ann, summer job or career. Send $3.00 Bonnie, and Jan. tor information. SEAFAX, Dept. G 13, P.O. Box 2049, Port Angeles, Me.rt Happy Happy! Let's "swing" wash. 98362. loniqht for tomorrow you'll be too 
old. THIS SPRING BREAK (MARCH 
"Mary Ellen" 22-29) REGGAE DOWN TO MONTEGO BAY. JAMAICA! 
This is a "DC'ar John" letter: ROUND TRIP BY AIR JAMAICA 
I'm a "little" better but still not JET & DELUXE AC­
tree and easy. Why not "fly COMODATIONS AT THE PLUSH DC'bbie, she'll really move her tail MONTEGO HOLIDAY INN. 
tor you." 

Sunshine
TENNIS, GOLD, SWIMMING, AND GREAT RAYS IN THE CARIBBEAN SUN. $50 DEPOSITS 
Thank God it's Friday! 
MUST BE IN BY FRIDAY, Meeting today, 239 NSH, 4-5 pm. FEBRUARY 14. FOR MORE Pre-med club. All members INFORMATION AND SIGN-UPS, welcome. STOP BY THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE OR CALL 272-Hockey is great 9895 AFTER 7:00 PM. 
Bacardi is too ARRANGEMENTS BY THE ST. Happy B-day to Sieve JOE BANK TRAVEL AGENCY. 
Love, The MGDU 

USC makes Irish comeback tough
/ '. ,__ 


by Pt>te McHugh 
After Wednesday night' fracas. the Notre Dame athletic depart­ml•nt might be advised to bring a supply of strait jackets for player;;, roaches, fans and officials. But restrained or not, the Irish and roach Digger Phelps should still have their hands full with South Carolina and Frank McGuire Saturday afternoon in the ACC. 
The Gamecocks have plenty to crow about. With a 13-5 overall record. McGuire and his charges are shooting for their seventh consecutive 20-win season and fifth straight NC' AA playoff berth. Another motive for South Carolina would have to be revenge after Notre Dame broke its 34 game home win streak last year in Columbia. 
McGuire enters the game as the third winningest active coach with a -t65-175 record in 25 years in the collegiate rar.ks. Phelps has had the best of him, however, winning 

... the last two of their three en­counters. For both coaches, it won't be a ease of overpreparation. The Irish are coming off Wednesday's 76-73 loss to Michigan State. The Gamecocks will make the long northern trek after a 64-62 victory over Pittsburgh Wednesday night at the Carolina Coliseum. Notre Dame with an 11-7 mark needs a win to keep their own NCAA playoff chances alive. Leading the Irish will be South Bend's answer to the Lone Ranger, Adrian Dantley. Dantley, who wears a white, protective mask after breaking his nose last Saturday, performed brilliantly against the Spartans t>qualling his 31 point season average. Along with Dantley, Notre Dame will have to count on a fine per-
leers entertain 'physical' Michigan State squad 
b)· Bob Kissel 

Will the "Conroy shuffle" be unveiled for full public view? Will Clark Hamilton perform the famous "Hambone review" at center ice? Will Tim Byers don his spaceman suit this weekend? 
These questions and others will be answered fo'riday and Saturday nights as the Notre Dame hockey team hosts the Michigan State Spartans for a pair of WCHA games. The Irish are looking to im­prove their seventh place WCHA spot. 
If basketball fans thought the recent ND-MSU l'iash was a bit like a gang meeting at 12th street, this series could prove to be another world war-on the ice. The last war occurred November 29 and 30 in J<:ast Lansing, featuring the same two teams. In the Friday night loss to State, four players, Byers and Larson of the Irish. Rice and McDonald of the Spartans. sustained injuries in a wild, uncontrolled third period. 
"I have never seen a State-Notre Dame series that hasn't had a lot of feelings on both sides," remarked Irish roach Lefty Smith. "The games are always n•ry physical and they won't get chippy if the of­fil'ials stay on top of the game. 

\ 
\~ 
, 
£-"' 


LES LARSON, Irish defenseman will have his hands, and maybe fists, full this weekend against MSU. 
~/ 
*·-,._ 
j-""-'! . 

"DUCK" WILLIAMS l25) drives the lane with a fast break layup. The Irish will need plenty of them Saturday against South Carolina if they are to keep their tournament hopes alive. 
formance from sophomore Bill Williams likely to see considerable South Carolina brings a strong Paterno, the team's second leading action. Peter Crotty and Toby front line to the ACC. Center scorer with a 13.9 average. Dwight Knight will share the center Tommy Boswell, a 6-9 235 lb. Clay <11.2) and Ray Martin (4.6) position as Phelps continues to transfer from South Carolina should handle most of the guard shuffle his lineup for the right State, tops the Gamecocks, scoring duties with freshman "Duck" combinations. at a 17 point clip. Boswell starred 
Toby Knight: playing and learning 
by Bill Brink for approaching planes. 
But it's Toby Knight's job to 
He's tall and gangly; and when stop any flying objects that ap­he plants himself under the basket, proach him, namely opposinghis long arms spanning the lane, players driving for the basket or 
you might think he's a signal tower crashing the boards. In fact, he's 
''When we played up there we felt we deserved a better fate (a loss and a tie) than we got," added Smith. ''Our players are ready and I know Coach <Amol Bessone's kids will be looking to get their momentum back after dropping a pair to Tech." 
Until last weekend, before losing 11-5 and 7-1 to Michigan Tech. the Spartans were on top of the WC'HA. They bring to South Bend a scoring attack which is among the most productive in the nation. 
The MSU line to watch is the unit centered by WCHA scoring leader Tom Ross <24 goals-38 assists), with wings John Sturges (14 goals-30 assists), and Brendan Moroney <16 goals-2 assists. Fortunately for the Irish. Steve Colp, last year's national scoring ehamp. fracured a leg January 18th against Denver and is out of action for the season. 
Spartan goalie Ron Clark owns a few interesting stats himself. He is the only goalie in the upper division that has made more stops than his op­ponents. He also has accumulated some 20 minutes in penalty time, average for wings, not for goaltenders. 
The key to Irish victory both nights will be penetrating the Spartan's weak spot-defense-and keeping the pressure on Clark. Coach Bessone has a young blueline corps, with one senior, Paul Pavelich, two sophs, Pat Betgerly, Kelly Cahill, and one frosh, Tim McDonald. 
"D(•finitely the way to beat MichiganState is to keep the pressure on l'lark," explained Smith. "That pressure has got to come from the forecheck, forcing State turnovers inside their own zone." 
The Notre Dame power play which has been somewhat anemic, has started to roll. Five of the last seven ND goals have come on the man advantage situation. Still the Irish are not getting the number of rebound. or garbage goals necessary to put close 
games away. 
Offensively for the Irish Lefty Smith will go the same lines as previous: Brian Walsh centering ND's own high flying line with wings Clark Hamilton and Alex Pirus: Pat Conroy skates the checking line with wings Terry Fairholm and Mark Olive; Geoff Collier pivots for the odd couple, 6'4" Kev Nugent and 5'8" AI Karsnia: and Don Fairholm, the center with the l'ountless moves <except to Fairholml, faces off for 
Tim Byers and Bill Guisti. 
Smith's defensive crew, already thin, will start .Jack Brownschilde, released from the infirmary yesterday morning, and Dan Byers, Don. Jackson, and Les Larson. Dave Bossy and Dick Howe. John Peterson. the hard-luck kid, will be in the net Friday night and Len Moher will finish out the series 
Saturday. Both games start at 7:30 at the ACC, with tickets still available. The games against the Spartans will be broadcast live by WSND, starting at 7:15. 
probably responsible for more m­the-air collisions than Trans­Peruvian Airlines. 
Whatever his style of play is, it must be working, because Tob)' Knight has become a familiar sight in the Irish basketball line-up. After seeing limited action last year. Knight has come on strong this season, chalking upa good deal of playing time and some im­pressive performances. The 6-8 sophomore is fourth on the squad in scoring with a 7.8 average, and is pulling down close to 6 rebounds per game. 
Toby insists that he is learning more each minute he is out there on the court. 
"If you get the playing time in crucial situations, then next time you'll handle it better," he says. "All these games adding up just gives me more experience." 
Toby's experience is by no means a picnic. Playing in the middle against bulkier,more physical centers often involves the tumultuous, elbow-throwing, leg­kicking combat that Toby has been forced to adapt . But as often as he can, he tries to use his great agility to beat the slower, huskier for the U.S. team in the World Games this past summer in San Juan. , . 
Junior 6-8 forward Alex _l<.nghsh. a pre-season All America. selection. leads his team in rebounds averaging8.7 per game with a 14.8 scoring mark. 6-4 sophomore Nate Davis (11.7) will handle the other forward spot. 
In the backcourt, playmaker Mike Dunleavy should keep the Irish honest. The ball-hawking Dunleavy, a 6-2 junior from Brooklyn, is second only to Boswell with a 16.6 average. Freshman Jack Gilloon <!l.9l and sophomore Stu Klintenic will shore up the other guard position. 
McGuire, like Phelps, has made good use of his bench this season. Nine of twelve Gamecock players have started games. Against Irish opponents, South Carolina has victories over Princeton and Pittsburgh but lost to Marquette H9-60 in Milwaukee. 
Phelps emphasized the im­portance of the contest, "We have eight games left and lots of variables are involved for a tournament berth. 
"H ~·ou look at everybody, they've got five. six, seven or eight losses; we have to beat South Carolina" 
Tipoff is slated for I :00 p.m. in the ACC. The game will be televised by TVS regionally but not in the South Bend area. 
opponents he faces. 
"My strongpoint is my 
quickness," Knight says. "I have 
to play a smart, quick finesse 
game. If I get into a struggle, then 
I'm going to lose, but if I can beat 
him with quickness, then I can do 
all right." 
Toby put it all together in the Irish's game against Holy Cross, scoring a career-high 19 points and grabbing 16 rebounds. He con­tributed 12 points in the recen­t upset of UCLA and has lookedgood in the three Notre Dame contests since then. His growth and maturity seems ttJ.be paralleling that of the team as a whole. 

"As the season goes on the whole team starts working together more. There's so many different combinations, youalways have to be aware of who you're playing with; different players do different 
thi!s." " he team as a whole has more poi e now," he continues. "When you keep the turnovers down, it shows you're playing smart ball. I think we can win the rest of our games if we concentrate on what 
(continued on page 11) 








