.-; ' .
. . . . ~ .' 
'• 


Dick regory warns 
-----------~ ------------. 
of hunger rioting 
Dick Gregory. humorist and civil rights activist, warned Americans of impE-nding hunger rioting in an address Saturday night in Stepan Center. 
Gregory told an audience of about 420 persons that the current weather and crop situations will cause prices of rice and soybeans to climb ctrast ically. This price rise, Gregory said, will drive millions of Am(•ricans out of the supermarket and will cause food riots in the streets. 
The combination of inflation and recession has already caused many Americans to change their eating habits and has forced them to turn away from mPat and to inexpensive grains, Gregory explained. 
At faull for thil!'situation is theAmt•ricangovernment, Gregory claimed. lit> stated that the government should have begun programs two years ago to ration food. 
"The number one crisis is food, and the number two crisis is water," the activist stated. "They know that 98 percent of the nation's water supply is contaminated and can cause cancer." 
Government inaction will lead to nationwide food riots which will "level the nation in six days," Gregory noted. He added that the Pentagon alt>rted the military to prepare for food riots and claimed that police officials in Los Angeles have been training for such disturbances for seven months. 
Gregory observed that private attempts to hoard food will be useless. "You can run out and hoard all the food you want, because if you have some food and I don't, yours isn't safe." The address was sponsored by the Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition and Gregory was introduced by Fr. Frank Gartland, director of the coalition. 
In his introduction, Gartland praised Gregory as a talented and determined friend of the poor, the hungry, oppressed and unfree peoples of the world. "He gave himself wholeheartedly to the struggle fl)r peace, to battle for civil rights, to articulate the defense of the defenseless un­born children sacrificed at the altar of abortion, and for these past several years to lead the cause of getting help for the hungry." 
In his 75-minute informal speech,Gregoryalso attacked the Central Intelligence Agency as an incursion on the rights of privacy of in­dividuals. 
Gregory. who has publicly called for a reopening of the investigation into assassination of President Kennedy, charged the CIA with in­volvemPnt in the assassination. 
The activist appealed for audience support in helping to abolish the CIA. II{' suggested a nationwide crusade of fasting in which persons would abstain from eating for a 24-hour period starting Friday and ending Saturday to display opposition to CIA activities. He asked for a show of hands in the audience to see how many persons are interested in such a fast and about one hundred persons responded. (Continued on page 9) 


'· 
-st. mary's college 

!Monday, April 28, 1975 
Opinion divided on valu~ of ND Japan program 

by Bob Mader Staff Reporter 

Opinion is divided among students who have participated in the foreign study program in Japan concerning the academic value of the year abroad. 
A letter from three Notre Dame students presently enrolled in the program was recieved by Observet· editors last Thursday calling Sophia University in Tokyo a "High School with ashtrays," and claiming they had been threatened with ex­pulsion if they withdrew from the final trimester of study. 
Roy Yanigahara who participated in the 1973-74 Japan program said SoP,hia, like any other university has both good and bad professors. He commented that a few of the professors were among the most qualified Asian scholars now teaching. In particular he cited a Jesuit who had received his PhD. in Asian studies from Cambridge University. "Broestl <director of the Foreign Studies Program) is probably right," Yanigahara stated, "the students just want to travel on school time. They're not fooling anybody." 
Olga Quan said some of the academic programs were bad but the opportunities to travel provided for in the program made the experience very worth­while. In regards to Fr. Broestl's remark that he had received no complaints about the academic value of the program, Quan stated this couldn't be true. She said she had written him in the first semester of her year in Japan citing weaknesses of the courses at Sophia. 
James Lyons termed the program as "excellent" and said students have a chance to experience a grPat deal of Japanese society. He stated that Sophia has both good and bad professors, but in foreign country o~portunities to study aren't as great as they are at Notre Dame. "I can't see why anyone would complain about an easy course," he said and added "The students who complain have no grounds. The signed up for it and they have a commitment." 
Three other students who have spent the year abroad. Ann Pinkerton, Laurie Moore, and Stephen Pettit. sent a letter to the Observer editor sup­
porting the complaints of the students in Japan. "We believe. based upon personal experience in the Yt>ar in Japan Program," the letter begins, "That a large part of what the three students claimed about the academics at Sophia University is true." 
Pinkerton. Moore, and Pettit state that the threat of expulsion which the students received was probably in response to pressure from Fr. Jose Dt•vera. S.J., director of the program in Japan and Vice-Rector of Sophia University. As far as (•quating withdrawal from Sophia with withdrawal from Notre Dame, the three called this "a marked change in policy." Both Pettit and Moore returned to the United States last year before the program was completed. 
The three stated that the "program has great possibilities ... But it seems it was set up and then left to run itself." 
Tht>y say attempts to improve the program. 
Pspecially those of Fr. George Minamiki of the Modern Language Department have been hindered by "bureaucratic inertia, partly because it is the smallest and most expensive program ad­ministered by the University." 
The three declined to comment on particular complaints and suggestions they have concerning the program since they "involve particulars and personalities with which those not involved in the program have no business." They hope that Dr. Charles Parnell. who will take over the directorship of the Foreign Studies Program in June, "will undertake a comprehensive review of the situation." 
The letter concludes by again stating that the administration stance that students must stay the full year is a drastic change in policy and their belief that it should not be implemented. 
Parnell said he will visit Sophia University in June to familiarize himself with the program. He remarked that the University will not offer a program which has no value to the students, but at the same time he will review the situation with an open mind, and consider student opinion of the program. 

TWO PARTICIPANTS dance their hearts out in the 
recent  marathon  held  for  the  benefit  of  the  
Muscular  Dystrophy  Fund.  (Photo by  Patty  
Romano)  

Effects of Harter Heights amendment 
by Jeffery Pecore Bend were passed in 1926, and the housing that exists now will stin Stan Ht>porter definition of a "family" in those exist next year. "There will be no days was well understood. But as problems unless the student In the furor of recent discussion the times changed, so did the population at ND increases, and concerning the effect that the meaning of certain terms such as I then it will be up to the University 
Harter Heights Amendment will "family." Professor Arthur have on Notre Dame students Quigley, a faculty member at living off-campus, the city of South Notre Dame who was involved Bend and its people, has been with the bill stated,"What was overlooked, according to City needed was an updating of the Councilman Roger Parent. Parent zoning lawsiand theHarterHeights praised the law as "one step in bill is an attempt to do this." preventing the deterioration of Langford stated that the bill is South Bend neighborhoods." not meant to be a cure all but that 
City-wide -effort he thinks it is a "healthy thin_g." 
James Langford, a local The South Bend resident also resident, stressed the fact that the emphasized the fact that the amendment was proposed by not amendment was not aimed against 
only the Harter Heights neigh­Notre Dame students and that borhood, but five others in ad­Notre Dame was one of the first dition. "The bill was a city wide groups contacted when meetings to effort," Langford stated. The bill discuss the proposal were being basically calls for a redefinition planned. "There were several and clarification · of the term student representatives at the "family," requiring a blood meeting including Ed Byrne, SBP relation between all members and Stan Cardenas, Off-Campus 
except for two (at most) in ad­Commissioner," Langfod said. dition to the former idea of a single As it presently stands, the bill is housekeeping unit. not retroactive so the same 
The original zoni~ laws of South amount of off-campus student to take some action toward more on-campus housing. I think the bill will lead to better communication and cooperation between the 

· students and the neighborhoods. We certainly welcome student involvement in our neighborhood 
groups and we want to help students who are being taken advantag~ of," Langford added. <'ouncilman Parent 
Councilman Parent talked about effect of the Harter Heights bill on South Bend. "The zoning codes of South Bend are necessary for effective land regulation,'' Parent stated. Because of the ambiguity of the term "family" in the law prior to the amendment certain areas of the city meant for family residences were not controllable 
"Homes meant for single families could be bought and rented out to several different unrelated people who all have separate incomes," continued Parent. "In this way there were more wage-earners residing in the house than the normal one or two per family and more rent could legally be charged. This type of situation destabilizes the rent structure and makes fewer homes available for families." 
Parent also cited the greater strain on public services a boarding house arrangement creates. This causes the neighborhoods to deteriorate more quickly. . "Overcrowding is a prime cau~e of 
deterioration." Parent stated. 
The South Bend councilman continued by stating that cities have the legal right to control land use by grouping certain types of residents in specific areas. 
l>t>finilion of family 
"We want the law to allow everyone to live his own lifestyle," Parent stated. ' "Some people define 'family' differently than the law does and that's fine. But these people will be restricted from living in certain areas designated as family residential 

explained 
areas.'' 
Parent announced that meetings are now underway to discuss possible exemptions to allow for handicapped people, retarded people and religious groups to live in one residence in familu areas of South Bend such as the A district. 
Lict>nsing proct>durt> 
A licensing procedure is being considered in order to control the 

' density of such exempitons in each neighborhood. "Too many exemptions would weaken a neigh­borhood for reasons mentioned before," Parent said, "and nobody 
Jwants that." 
Parent concluded his ob­servations stating, "It won't hurt students as much as some people think, nor will it prevent deterioration as much as some people say." 
"What is a neighborhood and what makes it a good neigh­borhood? The answers to these questions are necessary steps toward further effective zoning laws." Parent said. 




world bri•f· 
ELIZABETHTON, Tenn. ( U PI) -A former Arizou mental patient confessed to the hatchet murder of a young woman on the Appalachian Trail "because he didn't want to hurt anyone else.'' a Carter County sheriff's spokesman said Sunday. 
Paul Bigley, 51, a former Tucson, Ariz., mental paitient, j' walked down off Iron Mountain Saturday and confessed to the murder of Janice Baiza of Green Bay, Wisconsin. 
MOSCOW (UPI) -A Jewish activist began the third week of a hunger strike Sunday to protest five years : of official refusal to let his family emigrate to Israel. 
Vladimir Stepak, 47, told Western correspondents he is still feeling well despite his two­week fast and will continue as long as he can. 
Maria Slepak, his 48-year-old wife, said she gave up the hunger strike Saturday and their son Alexander stopped last week on the advice of doctors. 
an campus taday 

monday, april 28,1975 
12:20 p.m. -mass, fr. robert griffin, Iafortune ballroom, 
4:00 p.m. -lecture, "the other strindberg" by goran printz­pahlson, dept. of special collections, library. 
4:30 p.m. lecture, "stereoelectrlc properties of 
tetrahedral  species"  by  prof  
jean-marie  lehn,  rm  123  
nieuwland sci hall  

5:00 p.m. vespers 

log chapel 
6:30, 9 & 11:30 p.m. -film,"the, treasure of sierra madre", $1, eng aud. 
8:00p.m. -concert,the chicago strings, $2, wash. hall 
8:00 p.m. stage play,"vaudeville memories", liffle theater. 
.. . 

. Mo~.,. ~ 21, 1t7s 
·Lack of cooperation cited 
SMC graduation plans maychange 
by Pat _ Cooney Special Editor 

The plans of the St. Mary's senior class for an outdoor , may be cancelled. 
Of thf\ 356 members of the se-niOJ class, only 250 have paid the seven dollar graduation fee. "If the others don't pay the seven dollars by Wednesday, the administration will cancel the outdoor 
Five organizers chosen for ·st. Mary's InPirg 
by ('athy Busto Starr Rl'porter 

A group of five girls have been put in charge of planning and organizing the activities for the St. Mary's InPirg chapter next year. ThP girls who will be on the SMC InPirg board are: Maribeth Marley, Kathy Nolan, Linda Hoppe, TPrry Kerley and Debbie Hale. 
Elections for officers will take place in about two weeks, ac­cording to Kathy Nolan, a member of the board. The offices up for {')ection are the positions of chairman, treasurer, and secretary. 
There is a possibility that the InPirg chapters of NO, SMC, and IUSB might coordinate some activities next year that would include the entire state of Indiana, Nolan stated. The research projects for this collaborative effort have not yet been decided. 

The five members of the board will attend an NO InPirg 
meeting tomorrow so that they can study how meetings are organized and run. 
St. Mary's has just finished organizing its lnPirg chapter as has IUSB. The Notre Dame lnPirg chapter has been operating for a year. 


ERRATUM 
The Mock Democratic National Committee will meet tonight at 
6:30 in the LaFortune ballroom, not 7:30 as stated in Friday's Observer. 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuoents of the University of Notre Dame Md St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor S9 per semester ($16 per year> from The Observer Box' Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second clns postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
i'ydi"sa"' o llud,'6Jr · 
IJ' tJi1~,.1 31~n1o
· j 
graduation," said Carol Collins, president of the senior class. 
A door to door campaign w:·~ start Monday, April 28 to collf. the money from those who have nc paid. "It would not be fair to those who did pay, to pick up the tab of those who have not paid," noted Collins. The class officers are considering withholding an­nouncements from the seniors who have not paid 
There is no truth to the rumor that proceeds from the Senior Picnic on Saturday, April 26, will be used to pay for the outdoor graduation. 
"A poll taken early in this semester indicated that 90 per cent of the senior class wanted ar1 outdoor ~r3d~mtion but the:. hr.\ r not come through v.·=·•· • _,;-~n·­Perhaps those wh• ·ot paid should take the ' their friends into cor.sideration," · commented Collins. 
In case of rain, or the e\ '-nt that the outdoor graduation is not paid for, graduation will be held in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Graduation announcements for 
seniors will be distributed on WPdnr --April 30, from 9:30 to . room 170 LeMans in 
affairs area. Each Stull)( . oe given 20 an­nouncem.-., 1 must show their J.D.'s whPn g them up. 
Calling <:. t·an still be ob­tained by COiha~iing Ginny Gibbs at 4153, and order forms will be available with the announcements. 
Tickers for the Baccalureate brunch will go on sald Thursday, May 1 in thP dining hall. Tickets will be ~2.. ,or adults and $1.35 for children up to ten years of age. J<~or further information con­cerning the hrunch, call Amy de Ia Torre -1148. 
:· "niors should watch for notices conce:-ning caps and gowns and tickets for graduation. 

The events of graduation week.-----------------. 
arE> as follows: Monday, May 12, Dr. and Mrs. William Hickey will host a picnic for the seniors, in the Riedinger House gardens; Thursday. May 15, at 10:00 a.m. there will be a Senior Mass on the island of Lake Marian, followed immt>dia~E>ly by the Alumnae­Senior Brunch in the dining hall; Friday, May 16, from 9:00 p.m. until 2:00 a.m. ther will be a cocktail party in Regina for the seniors' family and friends; Saturday, May 17, at 10:00 a.m. there will be a Baccalureate Mass in O'Laughlin auditorium, followed bv a Baccalureate brunch in the dining hall; Commencement will be held at 3:00p.m. 
HIGH ADVENTURE STARTS AT 2500 FEET 
Your first jump course $40.00 takes only 3 hours. World's largest and safest. ­
Our 17th year.  .. lA"•If 
:'II~  
OVer 250,000 jumps.25,000 Firat jumps.  ~  

Free brochure. 
PARA. i£1 INC., CRAWFORDSVILLE CENTER l\11 No. 7, Municipal Al,ert Crawlordnlllt, lndltll 47133 
Phont. 317·382·8253 



ATTENTION ALL SOPHOMOR-ES 
·Place your ring orders before you leave for the summer. Your ring will then be ready when you return in the fall. 
Hours: 9:00am· to 4:30 nm Mon.-Fri. 
J ­
in office on second fl )or of HAMMES NOTRE DAME· BOOKSTORE 
~----~--------------------,
I STILL HUNTING FOR AN I IAPARTMENT FOR NEXT YEAR ?I 
I CAMPUS VIEW ONE AND TWO I I BEDROOM FURNISHED APP"TMENTS I 
I ­
I LOOK WHAT WE I I HAVE TO OFFER: ! 
I II * 2 TENNIS COURTS II * tNDOORISWISMMYNG POOL I 
I * C?co~~ ~i~ lp~;ta~e~ ~~ ~i~n~l~achine) I
I * DEAD-BOLT LOCKS I 
I * EXCr::LLEN I SECURITY I I * BASKETBALL COURT * SHAG CARPETING I I * 2 BATHS IN TliE 2 -bt:DR\lOM * DISHWASHERS I
I * ::~·D CONDITIONED * PRIVACY I
* LAUNDRY FACILITIES I 

.-ok y '. t .
~ ~· 
.,.
FOR APPOINT~ENT CALL 
.
II * REGULAR SOCIAL ACTIVITIES
your. wHIJfs, wt11t 't · 
k..t . .. " ,._ • 
-"'~ .......,._ .J.--'._ )J.
255-8600, 
NOW RENTING FOR SUMMER AND FALL SEMESTER
CBR master-. 
II
I 
I 

I 
('75 -'76 SCHOOL YEAR)
•t,.llst•·Lt:J
.....,_ 
:1 FOR RENTAL INFORMATION CALL 272-1441


'I I 
HAIR CAKE FOB MEN 
TOWN&COUNTRYMINI-MAU MISHAWW,IN0.46544 


'I. CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
..................~--~~............ , ................................0........................ 


. _J • ·"' 
•
Monda • .itt._ ...~..."(,.._. ·th ··b~""~ ~nt , ' 
y, "pr 1 ~D~ h1~ ..:.:...... ----· · 6 0 · 5'B~ttf-L ...... · ""..::. ,-------------------__._ 
Counseling available to victims of assault 

by Marjorie Irr said. "After reporting the incident • when he is so psychotic that he is there." Limbert more strongly expressed Staff Reporter to security, they inform the student unable to manage without such Limbert stressed the need for the importance of being informed 
Keeping the public well educated of the services open to her or him-­help." Limbert reiterated the fact increased lighting and security • and aware. "We're here to helpand informed is one of the best there are boys who have been that she is under no obligation of and noted that administration is the students who seek services. means of preventing rapE: and mugged, and that can be very any kind to disclose information to cooperating. But it's beiEg aware and assault, according to Dorothy upsetting also," said Limbert. security or the administration. Restatin2 her belief that the Limbert of the Psychological "Then if the student feels the need Limbert feels that it is up to the Psychological' Services Center is prevention of rape and assault Service Center. to, he can make an appointment." women to be aware of the perhaps there for students in times ofneed, , that's important." 
Mrs. Limbert, the only woman Limbert explained that the small, but constant danger of being on the staff of Psychological center is a pr .>fessional "mental raped. "The Observer is doing a Services, deals with students who health unit." not just for great job with the publicity and T-wo valedictorians named have been raped or assaulted. She counseling. As a rule in the they should keep it up. The girls is a psychiatric social worker who psychiatric profession, everything should know not to walk alone at has worked with college students is kept completely confidential. night, especially in the very dark 
for May 18 graduation
in this capacity and as a teacher. This includes information which places, or to hitchhike," she Limbert joined the Notre Dame could be used by security to arrest remarked. Staff in October, 1974. or convict the assailant. As stated Asked if she thought that more· The University of Notre Dame Heights, Ill. (6823 Evergreen 
Emphasizing that the services to in the description of the publicity could be a contributing will have two valedictorians this Ave.), majoring in mathematics. 
victims of rape and assault are Psychological Services Center, the factor to an increased number of year. Each will present a short Others from the College of Science, completely voluntary, Limbert two exceptions to the con­assaults, by putting ideas into talk ·at commencement in addition to Kellner, are Barbara explained how beneficial they can fidentiality rule <when outside help minds of potential assailants ceremonies beginning at 2 p.m. J. Anthony, South Bend Ind. 07382 
. . ' 
be. "The victim often needs help will be sought) include cases Limbert stated, "The Ideas are . Sunday, May 18, in the Athletic and Cleveland Rd.), a physics major, or just someone to talk to, t'O get "when the student clearly intends already in the minds. Reading the Convocation Center. The rare and Paul E. Angelo, Columbus through the traumatic time," she to commit murder or suicide or newspaper doesn't put them double appearance is due to the Ohio,083 W. Patterson), majoring 
near-perfect 3.985 academic in mathematics. averages attained by both during the last four years. Amark of 4.0 is College of Business Ad­
perfect. ministration seniors with top Michael J. Wahoske of Ripon, marks include Michael D. Arri, St. Wis (328 Belleville SU, a govern­Louis, Mo. (9332 Talbot Dr.), b~· Barb Boylan 1\liami--Los Angeles, $103.44" "An even greater variety of rates ment major, and William J. finance; William B. Larson, Dallas Starr Reporter The article continues, "Under i~ in store if the Government ap­Kellner of Green Bay Wis. (240 Texas <9735 Gatecrest), ac­the cut-rate arrangement, tickets proves requests made by airlines." Allard Ave.), a chemistry major, counting, and Daniel J. Winnike, "Bewildering air fares" may must be picked up seven days in These new rate changes were to will share the valedictorian West Po!nt, Iowa <92 Avenue D>, leave the student air-traveler advance of the flight plus there's help youth or senior citizens' fare honors. Another 10 students form accountmg. College of 
'No frill' service to cut air fares 
searching ·for another way home cancellation penalty of $10 or 10 on a standby basis; and also in­Notre Dame's four undergraduate Engineering award winnE-rs are according to this week's ll.S. per cent of the ticket price; corporate a family plan <one-third colleges have cumulative averages Dennis J. Gleason, Carroll, Iowa News and World Report. The whichever is greater. Aboard the off regular first -class of coach fare in the area 3.9 or higher. <511 Hillcrest PI.>, aerospace; latest proposals to reduce rates by plane. 'no frill' travelers are for wife and children from ages 2 to Joining Wahoske as top students Ying Kit Choi, Amstelveen, World Airways, Inc., and com­seated in a separate section and 21 accompanying the head of the in the College of Arts and Letters Holland, civil engineering, and peting airlines are mentioned. are served no meals." family). A check with the airlines, are Susan Prendergast, Box 186 Jeffrey D. McPherson, Portland, Costs vary with the time of flight, rE-vealed that the report may be Arlington, Ill., a history major, Ore. <2506 SW Troy SU, chemical type of accomodation, etc.; ''The 'no frill' plan will be good mistakenly optimistic. The CAB and Thomas A. Lilien of Palos Pngineering. 
therefore it is hard to pinpoint a Monday through Thursdays. It did not approve the airlines' recent 
"regular" fare. will expire next December 16, after proposal to reinstate the family 
which time the Civil Aeronautics plan or youth-S'enior citizens' fares 
According to tT .S. Sews, Board will decide whether it should or the night or day excursion fares. 
"Federal regulators have given be reintroduced on a permanent
five airlines the go-ahead to ex­basis," the magazine states. One of the airfare proposals 
periment with a new type of low­involves the elimination of the 
cost. 'no-frill' service. The plan is Also according to this report, an present requirement that airlines 
getting a tryout by National, overhaul of U.S. air fares was to get prior approval from the Civil 
American. Continental, Delta, and begin at the end of April. The A<>ronautics Board for every fare 
Eastern Air Lines on flights bet­overhaul "would affect more than change. In that case, carriers 
ween l<~lorida and other parts of the (}0.000 pairs of cities served by all would be allowed to raise or lower 
country. Some typical 'no-frill' U.S. scheduled lines. In general, fares as much as 10 to 15 per cent 
fares: New York--Miami. $62., short -haul rates were to go up, and as they see fit. This would allow 
compared with $98. for regular long-haul rates down." comm(•rcial to continue to compete 
coach and $75. for night coach; The report optimistically states, for student business. 
South Vietnam senate chairman concedes to Communists 
B)' WILLIAM M. REILLY bath," he .said. "I am staying cease-fire soon, but that it 
SAIGON <UPI) The here. I have responsibilities not might take several weeks. 
chairman of South Vietnam's only to my colleagues (in the "We hope now we will soon 
senate conceded Sunday his legislature) but to my family." have a conclusion to the 
country had lost the war but Lam was foreign minister fighting," said Lam. 
said he expected no "blood­when he signed the peace ·'A cease-fire needs negotia­
bath'' when the Communists agreement in Paris in 1973. tion. I hope the Communists 
take over. Lam said he hoped Minh, the will pull <back) from the 
"We are beaten," said Tran only major presidential con­fighting." 
Van Lam. "We accept humilia­tender not rejected out of hand Lam said he discussed the 
tion. But it's better to be beaten by the Viet Cong in the quest change in power with both 
by your brothers (North Viet­for someone to talk peace, Huong and Minh and that both 
namese and Viet Cong> than· would be ab!e to negotiate a men agreed to the switch. 
strangers." · 
Lam was one of the signers of the 1973 Paris peace agreement that was supposed to end the Vietnam war. As chairmman of the senate he was next in line for the presidency, but the national assembly went outside the country's constitution Sunday to • vote the job instead to Gen. Duong Van "Big" Minh. 
Lam was a supporter of President Nguyen Thieu, who resigned Monday and handed the reins to Tran Van Huong. As such, Lam would not have been acceptable to the Commu­nists as a negotiator. 
The senate chairman said, however, he did not anticipate Communist reprisals. 
"I do not expect a blood­
-=-z::: ­
House Painting 
DOES YOUR HOME 
NEED PAINTING? 
EXPERIENCED 
PAINTERS (TWO N.D. 
GRADUATES) WILL 
PAINT INTERIOR­
EXTERIOR 
VERY REASONABLE!! CALL234-1889 For Free 
Estimate 
~~ 


·· MltttER$. 
II:' two 5pecW ~...,..,__~e~~ celebr01t~ the C-'"1 of MOTHEIS 
DAY . . , . DD1ng h.,... "-" ..._..._ 
m••y ••y ..._ 2 ••ows
.......,., ' ..........,,,... 
~qRRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
A&& sun •DIRWD · .,..., ADVAJCIM.SO DAY Of IHOW
•.. 
J. •• 
·­
TIMM PARTY STORE 
OPEN Mon-Sat 9:00 A.M.-11 :00 P.M. Sun 12:00-11 :00 P.M. COLD BEER, WINE, GOURMET FOODS 
3114 S. 11th St. Niles, Mi. 
683-9875 




''&etta 
d~B" 
j 
Have we got a JOB for you 
You may not have a job right now, but cJtB. that French Cigarette Paper Company, is making an offer you won't want to resist. 
We've put together a kit containing four.of our favorite cJtB papers. For $1. you'll receive one pack each of our two. one lick. no mess double wide papers: White and Strawberry. And for you die-hard. traditionalist. single paper rollers. a pack of cJtl Wheat Straws and a pack of cftl55'• white. 
•M'!!~..~!!!:!~!'.!1D~~.. 
2131•. 1Aaelllel4 • c::Jdc•••· 1Dlaeb10117 
I certify that I am p•er 21 yean of a!iJe. eo Mild me my iOISample Itit. I 
encloae my check or money order lor Sl to cOYer cost. poatage and han­
dling. 
Nam•---------------------------
Addree...____________________ 
City/Stat...______________ 
Zip__________________ 
ODly ODe eample toa lamUy. pleaH. Allow follr -ulor dell..ry. Offer good olllr wbll• ' 
•vpply laate. 
BROUCiHT TO YOU FROM FRANCE BY ADAMS APPLE DIST. CO. • CHICAGO 


the observer
4 

..... 
' 
, SMC ·to host open house Sunday 
Saint Mary's College is hosting rooms will be open for inspection. 
lawn in front of LeMans Hall at A showing of the special slide The Saint Mary's College South
its third annual "Spring Ori Academic department, 
various times during the af­and sound presentation, "Sister BE>nd Alumnae Club will host aCampus" Open House Sunday, representatives will be stationed in ternoon. Madeleva: President, Poet, reception in Stapleton LoungeMay 4, from 1:30 p.m. Residents of U>Mans Hall to discuss their Four art exhibits will be on PE-rson," is scheduled for 2:30p.m. during which the community maythe Michiana area are invited to departments and answer display in the Moreau Galleries, in the Reignbeaux Lounge of mPet Dr. William A. Hickey, ac­participate in the many academic, questions. The modern languages and a sale of student art work will LE>Mans Hall. "I'm Gonna' Sing," ting president, and members of the cultural, and social activities of the lab will also be open. 
be held in LeMans Hall. the film of the Saint Mary's College faculty and administration.day. Unusual and rarely visited areas Concert Choir's European tour, Programs and maps will be
The College's administration, The Saint Mary's College Con­of the campus, such as Riedinger will also be shown throughout the provided to all visitors as theyfaculty, staff, and students will be cert Choir will present a musical · House and the Archives in Ber­afternoon. arrive on campus.
involved in opening all facets of program at 3 p.m. in the Little 
trand Hall, will be open for tours. 
campus life to the community. Theater. A costume display by the 
The staff of the Admissions
Visitors will be welcome to walk speech and drama department Mitchell morale described 
Office will be available for con­
around campus, touring such will be located in the foyer of sultations. 
buildings as LeMans Hall, the O'Laughlin Auditorium. as high despite problents
An ice cream social, sponsored 
Library, the Church of Our Lady of NEW YORK <UPO -For-friends, Mitchell said. "That's
by the Student Government, will be 
mer Attorney General John the Pxact truth," Mrs. DeanLoretto, the Science Hall, and the The College's fencing team will 
held on the lawn in front of the 
Mitchell's morale is high these added. "We are very goodDining Hall. Student dormitory demonstrate its fechiniques on the Dining Hall. 
days, despite his legal prob-friends." lems, because of his renewed Mrs. Dean owns the Fairfax acquaintance with widow Mary Hotel in Washington and
S.Vietnam congress elects 
Gore Dean, Newsweek maga-manages its Sea Catch and zine reports in its current issue. Jockey Club restaurants. Mitch­"l'm more relaxed now than ell and Mrs. Dean first met in 1 have been in 10 years," the 19508 when he did legal

Gen. Van Minh president 
Mitchell, 61, was quoted as work for her late husband, saying. For the past six former Atomic Energy Com-
SAIGON <UPJ) South Political sources said Minh In Washington, Assistant months Mitchell and Mrs. mission C h airman Gordon Vietnam's congress unanimous­would take power Monday and SE>cretary of State Robert Dean ' have been frequent Dean,. who died in a plane ly elected Gen. Duong Van would ask for a U.S. withdraw­McCloskey conceded U.S. policy companions around Washing-cras.h m 19?8. "Big" Minh as president al from Vietnam so he could in Indochina has failed and said ton, Newsweek said. Mitchell 1s separated from his Sunday in an 11th-hour attempt arrange a coalition with the the United States had stepped "We're just very good wife, Martha. 
Viet Cong.
to turn imminent military up its diplomatic efforts to defeat into a negotiated peace. · It was unclear whether Minh 
obtain a cease-fire and a NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION 
Political sources said Minh intended to ask all Americans 
"controlled outcome" of the
would immediately ask for an to leave, or whether the U.S. war in Vietnam. PROUDLY PRESENTS American withdrawal from embassy would remain open 
McCloskey did not deny that
Vietnam. with a token staff. 
the diplomatic efforts involve Meeting between the first two Three hours after the assem­China and the Soviet Union. 
THE 
rocket attacks on Saigon in bly's action, Communist forces In Paris, the Viet Cong's more than three years, the launched their second rocket Provisional Revolutionary Gov­national assembly voted 134-0 attack of the day on the city -Prnment issued a communique 
ALICE COOPER 
for Minh -hero of the 1963 four rounds of what appeared calling for abolition of the 
coup that overthrew President to be 122mm missiles that Saigon administration as a Ngo Dinh Diem -to succeed landed on the government's prerequisite for peace. But it 

SHOW
President Tran Van Huong and naval compound, in the down­made no mention of the election 
gave him authority to sue for town area and in the Saigon of Minh, who himself is 
"WELCOME TO MY NIGHTMARE"
peace with the Communists. River. 
considered a neutralist. 
STARRING
Students sought. to aid Food Co-op 
::,-~-..................._~-...,
Student Government is seeking \ in the co-op. 
/
Dame and St. Mary's Dining Halls 
/
students to help in the registration Cost of membership is now being 
I
during dinner hours, in the Huddle 
/
drive for membership in the Food offered at 50 percent discount. 
/
between 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. and at 
/
co-op~ 
Membership will be sold this 
the l'~otre Dame Credit Union.
The co-op, to be set up next fall at semester for $5, in the fall for $10. 
an off-campus site, will sell food, A $2 down payment for mem­
.students interested in helping
records and certain items of bership wis due this semester with 
1 with the Registration Drive can
clothing at discount prices to the balance to be paid in the fall. 
cor:ttact the Student Governmentstudents, administrators and Sign-ups for co-op membership , 1 off1ce at 6111 or Jim Wersching at 
1
faculty who purchase membership will begin Wednesday in the Notre I8040 or 6871. 
Committee to study ND-SMC relations 
Joe Corpora, newly appointed ' identity, there is plenty of room for · Government secretary on the Co-Ex Commissioner, has an­more of a combined spirit. School second floor of LaFortune. Anyone nounced plans for setting up a phonebooks should be combined; with any specific questions can committee to study relations speakers could be jointly brought call Joe Cor ora at 3161. 
WITH: 
JOZEF CHIROWSKI
STEWART 
SPECIAL GUEST STAR:
WHITEY GLAN STEVE HUNTER PRAKASH JOHN DICK "WAGNER 

MCGUIRE 


SUZIQUATRO
SHOES 
TOMORROW NIGHT 8:00 p.m.
Wi!h the Spri"-g' 
NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC &
Step cushion 
CONVOCATION CENTER
DAD-& FAMILY . 
TICKETS NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT 
503 N. Blaine Ave. 
UNION TICKET OFFICE AND A.C.C. ONLY. So. Bend -~3_4-446~~ 
PRICES: $7.00, $6.00, and $5.00 
1974-1975 
FOOTBALL & BASKETBALL 





POSTERS 


between Notre Dame and St. to campus. This way both schools 
Mary's College. will share the cost. I hope that 
"Since I was a freshman here, I sponsors of such events like the have seen the two schools fall Sophomore Literary Festival will apart somewhat and I feel that this · make arrangements so that one of division will continue unless the scheduled speakers during the something is done", Corpora festival can speak at O'Laughlin. stated. Again, here both schools can help 
The committee will meet weekly share the cost and benefit from the so that there is some com­events and activities," Corpora munication between the two suggested. schools. Since no committee of this The committee will be composed kind has existed recently, the jobs of two administrators from Notre and responsibilities of the com­Dame and two from St. Mary's, mittee are not totally known and . two faculty members from each will develop and grow according to school and five students from each need. school. Students interested in 
serving on the committee can · This committee will make apply today through May 1. In­requests that the two schools terested SMC people can contact 
sponsor more joint activities, 
Joan McDermott at 215 Holy Cross including non-social ones. "There or can call her at 4298. Notre are several reasons for this. While Dame people may pick up ap­each school can maintain its own . a tions from the Student ! 



-~---­

Student 
by Shawn Scannell Staff Reporter 
The Student Union has decided to reguJate club sponsored films for the 1975-76 school year. The decision was made after careful examination of the clubs which applied to show films. 
Of the sixty organizations which applied, roughly half qualified for film dates next year. These 


penetrate 
By KENNETH F. ENGLADE 
SAIGON <UPI) -Communist commandos penetrated the northern outskirts of Saigon only three miles from down­town late Sunday and dug in next to the compound of the United States Agency for International Development. 
Government air strikes and artillery attacks failed to dislodge the commandos. The USAID compound was mostly destroyed in the fighting. 
The commando assault came as North Vietnamese and Viet Cong troops seized Ba Ria province, the 23rd province to fall in the current offensive, and heavily bombarded Bien Hoa and Long Binh bases, as well as other government positions within 5 miles of Saigon. 
All roads leading into and out of Saigon were cut in the fighting early Monday, placing the capital under land siege. 
Military sources said small groups of Viet Cong guerrillas were reported operating almost at will inside the Saigon defense perimeter, six miles from the center of the city. 
The Communist raiders broke through the perimeter easily to fire rockets at the city and attack government positions four miles north of Saigon near Thu Due district capital, a major army training center. 
As Saigon's defense perime­ter rapidly shrank, President­designate Duong Vari "Big" Minh worked desperately on plans to begin peace talks with the Viet Cong. 
According to political sour­ces, Minh was to ask official Americans to leave the country quickly so he could attempt to negotiate peace with the Viet Cong. 
SLC to consider 

hours extension 
The SLC will meet this afternoon at 4:30 in room 120 of the Hayes­Healy Center to consider a proposal to extend dormitory visitation hours on weekdays. The hours are currently 12 p.m. to 12 
a.m. The proposal would extend visitation hours to 11 a.m. to 1a.m. on weekdays. The public is invited to the meeting. 
Part Time ·Job 
available for 
summer at The 
Distillery and Red 
Door liquor Store. 
Applicants must 
be 21. 
Apply in person at The Distillery liquor Store, 1723 South Bend Avenue. Phone 272-9800. 


----~-~--------------------------------------.------------~----------~~ 
\ ... ' .\ . ' ...., ·' . '. . ........ 
. ..... -----···---· --
---.
Monday, April 28,-i975 · · 
the observer 
5 

-
Union begins regulation of films 
organizations were placed in a a second semester date, which will lottery to determine the selection be distributed by lottery to the of dates. The format for the lottery remaining qualifying clubs. was categorized by grouping into The following organizations categories of sports, academic, were chosen in the lottery for the and charitable. fall semester: Karate, Accountin~ 
There are seventeen dates Club, Women's Golf, Psychology available next semester, each Club, Manasa, Glee Club, CILA, consisting of two days which the Circle K. Finance Club, Senior lottery will distribute to fifteen Club, Swim Club, Hunger Club, Big clubs. Any dub which gets a first Brothers and Sisters, semester date will be ineligiple for Cheerleaders, and Fi$her Hall. 
Reds· destroy U.S. compound, 


Saigon outskirts 
He was expected to take office Monday afternoon, but the sources said the call for an official American pullout could come sooner. 
It was the closest fighting to Saigon of the current offensive. 
Paratroopers gathered at the south end of the bridge in an apparent effort to organize an assault on the commando positions. 
Military sources said Bien Hoa and Long Binh bases, 14 miles northeast of Saigon, came under heavy artillery fire early Monday. 
Government pilots moved all aircraft that could be flown from Bien Hoa airbase to Saigon, including helicopters and heavily armed gunplanes equipped with rapid-firing rna­chine guns. 
Also under shelling was the Big Cu Chi base, the former 
U.S. 
25th Infantry Division post 18 miles northwest of Saigon, and Tan An provincial capital, 25 miles southwest of Saigon. 

Government warplanes and 


U.S. 
Air Force jet cargo planes flying South Vietnamese eva­


cuees to the United States . port near the river. 
continued regular flights to and from Tan Son Nhut airbase at the western edge of Saigon but in diminishing numbers. 
Vietnamese security guards at the main entrance to the Tan Son Nhut complex tightened checks and turned away hun­dreds of people at the main gate who were trying to enter the base. 
Officials said they were not sure how long the evacuation program would continue but indicated they would try to keep it going as long as possible. 
The first signs of open panic began to show in Saigon itself. Crowds besieged the downtown Interior Ministry office follow­ing a government announce­ment that exit visas would be issued for "a sizeable sum" to anyone wishing to leave the country. 
Military spokesmen said a four-round rocket barrage Sun­day injured one child at the Saigon Riverfront in the down­town area of the city. Shells also hit the government Navy headquarters and the Saigon 
1 

The applying organizations were 1 dates and films as less than subjectively examined in the ' "prime" resulting in lowered following areas: nature and attendence and subsequent losses. purpose of club, alternative op-I The procedure for the ad­. portunities for fund raising, and / ministration of films next year 
I 1
previous film dates. Under these will be handled entirely by the 
1 
1 considerations, all halls were Student Union Services Com­· Pliminated due to alterior • mission,under the direction of available fund raising methods. : Film Coordinator Mike O'Connor. Fisher Hall was given a date as a The ordering and handling jof all _special exception due to a fairly long films, the auditorium rentals and standing prior commitment. projectionist's fees, and the 
Student Union decided to make ' payment of all bills will be per­the regulations due to the formed by the film committee. evidenced fact the films on The Committee will supervise the campus have reached the attendence receipts in coor­saturation point. This has been dination with the organization's noticed due to reduced level of treasurer or agent and the Student profits and a greater frequency of Union Controller Office. The loss on the part of sponsors. Also, organization will then be issued a increased number of films being statement oj all financial matters shown have rendered the available I concerning the showing of films. 
·Salt water crocodile
..

n1ps napping hunter 
BRISBANE, Australia (UPI) Searchers recovered the rema.ins of a missing hunter 
from the  belly  of a 19-foot salt  
water  crocodile,  police  said  
today.  

Police said Peter Reimers, 32, was swallowed by the reptile while taking a nap during a hunting and fishing trip at Weipa, 1,200 miles north of Brisbane. 
Reimers decided to lie down and rest beside shallow water at a freshwater lagoon 20 miles east of Weipa while his two companions went fishing else­where, police said. Officers said the crocodile apparently lunged six feet from the water and attacked him while he slept. 
His two companions searched the area but only found his rifle, watch, hat and shoes neatly piled nearby. 
NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENT 
· NOW RENTING FOR '75-'76 SCHOOL YEAR · 


THE~E APARTMENTS ARE LOCATED JUST SOUTH OF THE C'AMPUS ON NOTRE DAME AVENUE. EACH APARTMENT IS DESIGNED FOR FOl'R OR FIVE STUDENTS AND IS COMPLETELY MODERN IN EVERY DETAIL.
1 

9 MONTH LEASE AVAILABLE ­e USING NEW LEASE APPROVED BY DIR OF OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING. 
.. 
ONE BUILDING BEING RESERVED e FOR GRADUATE STUDENTS-9 MO. OR 12 MO. LEASE. 
SUMMER APARTMENTS 
• AVAILABLE NOW. 

SOME OUTSTANDING FEATURES: 
· Private Patios and Balconies . Air Conditioning · Kitchen with Range, Refrigerator and 
Garbage Disposals -Cooking Utensils, Dishes. Silverware• Glasses. etc. 
1 
-Wall to Wall Carpeting 
· Party Bar­· Soundproof and F ireproot Constructi · Prewired for Cable TV and Telephont · lighted · Paved Parking Area 
Completely Furnished (X Long Beds)· · Trunk Storage Over 1.000 sq. ft.. apartment · Excellent Security 
FOR RENTAL INFORMATION CALL 272.;'7656 or 234-6647
l 
......,..,... 
He said they guessed what 
had happened when they found 
mud scuffed up and b1ood on 
the scene. They called Weipa 
police and organized a hunt. 
Police and friends of the dead man exploded a dynamite charge under water to stun the crocodile and th~m shot it as it surfaced. Reimers' dismem­bered body was recovered from the crocodile's belly. Searchers identified Reimers by his head. 
Police said this species of crocodile was plentiful in far North Queensland and frequent­ly came _up tidal creeks to fresh water for feeding. 

The last recorded death in Queensland by crocodile was 31 years ago when an aboriginal groundsman was killed at a zoo /in central Queensland by an 87­year-old crocodile called "Big Momma." 


~-­

l:iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiill•liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii:.l · 



Harter Situation 
Dear Editor: 
We appreciate the letter by Mr. Konopa, President of the Harter · Hei.ghts and Neighbors Association, printed in last 
Tuesday'sf)bserver, but we think it lacks necessary information. We never received a specific invitation to attend meetings formulating strategy for the ordinance or considering its eventual impact. 
"Shooting from the hip" would seem a bit ridiculous, if the am­munition weren't live. People living in a zone must have impact on zoning changes, but whyshould people of one region seek to dictate changes for the whole city?'-Fur­thermore, the ordinance did not phase out student housing in "A" zones, but it effectively froze what presently exists. Thus, the passage of years will see a process of contraction of available ' facilities in these areas. The strict definition of 
"family" presupposes that the values of . a region will un­necessarily be better upheld by families other than Notre Dame 
students, whose life style is accepted by some, rejected by others. You have chosen stability over ambivalence, but discrimination is implicit. 
Notre Dame students also suffer from deteriorating neighborhoods. Sub-standard housing, bad leases, absentee landlords with high rent structures and minimal main­tenance, lack of redress due to the absence of a small claims court, all 
of these things impact equally on your student neighbors. This year Notre Dame has begun inspection of housing, provided legal and crime prevention information, and prepared one of the best landlord­tenant leases in Indiana. We have met with the absentee landlords and discussed honestly what would, and would not be ac­ceptable for student housing. All of this was done through , existing structures and great progress has been made. 
The proponents of this measure, no matter how commendable their intentions may have been, did not use existing structures, but in­stead, chose to press for restrictive legislation. This legislation, in our opinionmerely~cts as a canopy \for existing problems which are more effeCtively addressed in other ways. 
We attended a meeting called by Mr. Parent on Tuesday night ·which focused on environmental problems, housing and en­

~ forcement provisions. All of these should have been thoroughly discussed prior to passage, and consideration of the HUD findings should have been included. 
We disagree with the method chosen to address these pressing

r 
r social problems. A much more positive approach might have been a revitalization of existing structures through public action, direct confrontation with the landlords, and a sincere effort to accommodate all the interests present in th.. -.rea, rather than 



P.O. Box Q 
legislation executed to the benefit 
of a single (albeit majority) group 
Rev. Thomas Tallarida, C.S.C. 
Director of Off-Campus Housing 
N.T. Wilson Student Assistant for Off-Campus Housing 
Doing Us A Favor 
Dear Editor: 
I just can't believe the rationale 
presented by Julian Pleasants in 
his opinion, "A Position on 
Parietals,". He and his fellow 
view-sharers on the SLC have done 
us students such a favor! They've 

saved us from a very hard part 
part of our maturing process. How 

ridiculuous can one be? 
Look at P.O. Box Qon the page following the Opinion Pleasants wrote. How many letters do you see about the sad situation of men and women relationships at Notre Dame. One third of the letters tell this situation. Other days even more sick actions are described, people constantly exposing themselves, or abusing women verbally. It's frustration on the part of the male community, true not all due to the atmosphere Notre Dame lends itself toward developimg mature relationships, but a good percentage of it is. 
How is the student ever going to know a good perspective to have on male, female relationship when he can hardly have one. Close the halls to girls at 12:00 so guys can sit around in an t unhealthy at­mosphere and discuss their triumphants and defeats with girls. 
Don't you see it's a vicious circle as Pleasants sa~s, but in­stead he's a main reason for it continuing. With a more liberalized visitation system students would have to learn, as most personal learning ex­periences are, on their own to put the right perspective on things. 
A remarkable improvement both personalized and community wise would be a main benefit. Students would learn their own lifestyle instead of it being imposed on them as N.D. constantly does. Tell me how to live and I won't have to think much, that's what it seems to me. Some might think Pleasants is aiding us in our decisions but I say much too much, to the point of conditioning us. What about after we leave here, who will conditiom us then? We need our decisions of the past for a learning experience, for future decisions, whether the old ones be right or wrong. Let me ~ \decide on my lifestyle and I'll be more confident in myself. 
Please stop saving me and others from making our own 
decisions and imposing a lifestyle • 
on us. The benefits from your 
imposition can be seen everyday in 
the Observer on the quad in the 
dining halls and unfortunately on 
the porches of many 0-C female houses. 
Bryan Sweeney 
Evaluators Not Vindictive 
Dear Editor: 
A recent letter to the editor complained that one of The Scholastic's course evaluations was too harsh, and caused the professor of the course both pain and embarassment. As coor­dinator of the evaluations for the department in question, I feel it ncessary to respond to the .allegation that this evaluation was a "cheap shot," constituting a personal insult to the professor, and an inaccurate guide to students. 
As I did not write the evaluations, and as I have never taken any courses from the professor in question, I cannot personally vouch for the validity of the evaluation. Yet because the remarks included in the evaluation were especially poignant, the assessment was first checked with several other former and present students of the professor before it was published. 
Thus the evaluation was not written by a "misanthropic moron" anxious to use the veil of anol)imity to attack the professor of the cour~e. Indeed, it is highly unfair to accuse the~valuators of personal vindictiveness. The Scholastic's evaluations do not question the integrity nor the intelligence of the university's professors -they only attempt to gauge a professor's relative ef­fectiveness in the classroom, while also informing prospective students of course requirements. 
That a student might disagree with a published evaluation is unfortunate, but probably int>vitable , especially if 
evaluations are not to degenerate into wishy-washy pats on the back 
. Admittedly evaluations are inherently sub­jective, but this apparent weakness may, in fact, be their greatest strength. If a student has access to discerning and provocative commentaries on a course, he might then be better able to discuss the relative merits. of the course with fellow students. 
Dave Hayes 

the observer 
Night Editor: Andy Praschak Assistant Night Editor: Marti Hogan Layout Staff_: Kathy Skiba!" Day Editor: Mary Reher Copy Reader: Fred Herbst Editorials: Jim Eder, J. Amantea Features: Tom O'Neil, Martha Fanning Sports: Bill Brink Valerie Zurblis' Typists: Don Roos, Anne Peeler, Martha Fanning, Neil VIII, Rick Huber Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz, i Phil Orscheln Night Controller: Dave Rust, Bill Brink ! Late Typist: Dave Rust Picture Screener: AI Ad Layout: Tom Whelan 
'· . 
~----­
• ,.

....,.,~ 

Who Did It? 
WASHINGTON--There will probably be a lot of fingerpointing about the debacle in Vietnam. It's hard to fix the blame on any one person so, to satisfy everyone's political persuasion, here is a small .choice to pick 
. from. A larger choice can be found in a book titled "The Experts" by Clyde Edwin Pettit from which I lifted most of these Quotes. 
French Gt'n. Jean LeClerc: "I didn't come back to Indochina to give 
Indochina back to the Indochinese." <Sept. 31, 1945) _ 
l'.S. (it'n. Mark Clark: "I am also impressed by the French military 
plans. by the apparent Vietnamese determination to fight. I could not 
make any better plans than those already in existence here ... " (Feb. 24, 
1953) 

Sht'rman Adams, assistant to President Eisenhower: "At a Sunday 
night meeting in the upstairs study at the White House, Eisenhower had 
agreed with Dulles and Radford on a plan to send American forces to 
Indochina under strict conditions." <April 4, 1954) 
Frt'nch Hrig. (it'n Christian dt' Castries: "I'm going to kick Gen. Giap's 
teeth in, one by one." <April 20, 1954) 
St>n. !\likt> Mansfield <D-Mont.>: "Ngo Dinh Diem's government stands 
for decency and honesty while those conspiring to bring him down 
represent corruption." (April 30, 1955) 
l1.S. <~t>n. Earle K. \\'hePler: "It is fashionable in some quarters to say 
that the problems in Southeast Asia are primarily political and economic. 
I do not agree. The essence of the problem in Vietnam is military." 
<November, 1962) 

:\ssistant St-cretary or Derensp Arthur D. Sylvt-wster: "It's the 
inherent right of the government to lie to save itself." (Dec. 6, 1962) 
St'crt'taf)· or Dt'fPnse Robert S. McNamara: ''The South Vietnamese 
armed forces have now attained the experience, training and necessary 
equipmE>nt required for victory ... Victory is in sight." <Feb. 19, 1963) 
l 1.S. (it>~t. Paul D. Harkins: "By Christmas it will all be over." (April,
1963) 

Pn•sidt'nt .John F. Kt'nnedy: "I can't do it <withdraw from Vietnam) 
until 1965--after I'm re-elected." <Spring, 1963). Secretary of State Dean 
Husk: "Part of the problem <of creating a broad political base in the 
South> has been that those who have collaborated in the war days and 
immediate postwar days with Ho Chi Minh were pretty much ruled out of 
consideration in Vietnam and properly so." (1963) 
Prt'sidt>nt L)·ndon R. Johnson: "We are not about to send boys nine or 
ten thousand miles away from home to do what Asian boys ought to be 
doing for themselves." <Oct. 21, 1964) 
St>n. J. William FulbrighUD-Ark.): "Presently the military operations 
appear to be going better. There have been reports from a military point 
of view in recent weeks ... We have also insisted on continuing the bombing 
as we did in the spring. The President made some very impressive 
speeches in that direction." (Oct. 24, 1965) 
l 1.S. (it>n. Maxwell D. Taylor: "The VietCong will just peter out." (Oct. 
27, 1965) 

l 1ndpr·st•ca·t>tary of i&a~ Eugt>ne V. Rostow: "I view Vietnam as a 
problem of order." (Oct. 4, 1966) 
llt>lll")' Cabot Lodgt>, U.S. ambassador to Saigon: "By the end of 1967, there might be light at the end of the tunnel and everybody will get the feeling that things are much better ... " <Dec. 16, 1966) 
\'ict'-Pr·t'sidt-nt llubt>rt H. Humphrey: "Vietnam is our greatest ad­venture. and a wonderful adventure it is!" <Nov. 1, 1967) 
Presidt-nt Hichard 1\1. Nixon: "I will say confidently that looking ahead just three years the war will be over.. .It will be over on a lasting basis that will promote lasting peace in the Pacific.'' (Oct. 12, 1969) 
Dr. llpm·y Kissingt'r: "Peace is at hand ... " <Oct. 26, 1972) 
.Jost'ph i\lsop. columnist: "Hanoi has accepted near-total defeat.. .Anyone with practical common sense should be able to see...Hanoi's acceptance of near-total defeat...The numerous American politicians and thinkers who endlessly said ... we could never get an honorable settlement . .look pretty silly." (Nov. 1, 1972) 
Prt'sidt>nt Gt>rald Ford: "I am absolutely convinced if Congress made available $722 million in military assistance by the time I asked--or some time shortly thereafter--the South Vietnamese could stabilize the military situation in Vietnam today." (April16, 1975) 

DObNESBURY 
HK~ 
YOIJ ARE! 
~/ 
,( 

~ (l\ •.J\ 'I\ 
I 





Monday, April 28, 1975 the observer 
a wish for life Ot;Jd the ;class of '75 

fr. bill toohey 
There is a memorable line in The Rock by 
T.S. Eliot. It asks: "Where is the life we have lost in living?" 
While we should be willing to grant that Eliot's question is an important one, we also ask another: "What about the life we have gained through living?" It seems important to look at both of them. 
First of all, there is something to be said for the suggestion that the grave is not only , an experience when we die, but also a threat 
and possibility while we live. 
The basic Christian message reaches people who have been bOrn; but birth is just the beginning of the long process of coming to full life. Consequently, incompleteneu or non-life is a factor for all of us. And, then too, we recognize that some of our ex­periences can sustain the deadness rather than contribute to our becoming more truly alive. Hate, self-pity, fear, revenge, being ignored or put down, being excluded, not loved or accepted-all are kinds of death. 
It seems that throughout our lives we learn about death -in ourselves in friends 
. . ' 
m strangers. There are times, for example, when we feel surrounded by gloom and darkness; when we get a sense of being buried. 
Sometimes we do that to ourselves; oc­casionally it can happen that others lead us to the grave, seal us up and leave us alone to rot. And sometimes we do it to others. One example of the latter would be our responsibility <if such be the case), for the deadly experience of injustice. 
I was reminded of this while listening to Jesse Jackson's speech at Stepan Center last week. I was forced to re-read a report I had recently seen on what has happened to 
the poor m America. This report (issued by the Catholic Bishops of the U.S.) destroys without question a myth that many have held for years, namely, that wealth is well distributed in this country. 
Just the opposite is the truth. In fact, our 
Thr impossible dream crystalized on the opening night of 1\Ian of La Mancha. The famous adventures of the truth-seeking Don (~uixote and his chubby squire, Sancho Panza, cam(' alive with music and the convrntions of srt design, costumes, and grease paint. But while the production was ('ntertaining and merited the applause of an 
audirnc£'  who  continued  clapping  for  a  
curtain call which  never  appeared,  there  
were  some  flaws  which  disrupted  what  

might have been a unified performance. 
After the groaning of prison gates a man drPssed like little boy blue complete with bows at the collar and garters. enters a raisPd platform accompanied by two guards of th(' Spanish Inquisition. Once lowered into the communal cell--a raked platform surrounded by ragged drapery suggesting the cracked plaster of damp prison walls, th£' rwwcomer. who claims he is Cervantes the poet. is seized by the veteran prisoners who proceed to hold a mock trial as a sort of crude amusement. Cervantes pursuades his f('llow inmates to allow him to perform a 
·play as his defense. The action fluctuates 
from the adventures of Quixote to the 
prison hfe of Cervantes and hopefully from 
this juxtaposition the audience draws a 
parallel betW('en the two men--poets who 
strive for the ideal, the good in men. 

There was something missing in the ND­SMC production, a Spanish accent in any visible or audible medium. Although the production received a universal emphasis, th~ mPssage is already so general that further abstraction makes it flavorless, and the prrsistent British accent, annoying. The audience feels that the production has not done justice to the very playwright it tries to portray. 
Dan Daily overcomes the limitations of his lavender nursery-rhyme costume and aristrocratic accent suitable for a flowery Shakespearian play when he opens his traveling trunk and begins to transform himself into Quixote. After smoothing the tips of his gigantic pointed mustache and beard, after buckling his chest armor, and crowning his head with a helmet supporting a red cok~yed feather, Dailey emerges as the caricature of the knight~rrant. His bright eyes are wild for the adventure glorified in musty chivalrous novels his rich voice conveys a humbleness befor~ his sovereign lady, Dulcinea, and a noble 
distribution of wealth is virtually identical to that in India -only the pie is bigger. Here are a few of the disturbing facts from the report. The wealthiest 5 per cent in this country owns 83 per cent of all corporate stock. In addition, to an ever increasing extent, productive wealth and control are concentrated in fewer and fewer hands. Take income. The bottom half of our population receives the same total amount as the richest 10 per cent. To make matters worse, the concentration of corporate power has increased at the same time (out of 32 000 corporations in the U.S., the top 500 control 
0 Next Sunday <May 4th) is the fifth an­niversary of Kent State. We probably all remember the picture of the girl kneeling over the body of the slain student -her arms outstretched, that look of horror on her face. Asyoumayrecall,thatgirl (Mary Vecchio) turned out to be a 14-year-old run away from home and ended up at Kent State during those days. That picture, appearing as it did in papers coast to coast, was noticed by her parents: they identified the picture and soon Mary was on her way home. She was welcomed at the airport -the 

"there are tUnes .when we feel surrounded by gloom and darkness; 
when we get a sense of being buried." butthattheonewhosaid, "Ihavecomethat 
'' 
75 per cent of all manufacturing assets).· 
In the light of this, it's small wonder if the average American suffers from a feeling of powerlessness, of being at the mercy of forces beyond his control. The rich get richer and the poor get poorer! The lower middle-class people have little power, and are desperate for liberation from their oppression. They are indeed like La7.arus waiting for someone to call them forth. ' They echo Eliot: "Where is the life we have lost in living?" 
As I suggested earlier, there are also times when others take us to the tomb. Then we know what it was like, say, for the I~r.aelites, who were the victims of cap­tivity, who saw no hope for escape. Their future, as far as they could see, was death. That's what the sins of others can do to a person. That's what happened to Mary Vecchio. 
gangling, big-eyed girl with the long black hair, angular face, the high cheekbones, flowered mini-skirt and sandals held to­gether by tape-and it seemed that for her, it was to be a happy ending. But that wasn't to be. 
There was no warm homecoming when she returned to Opa Locka, Florida. Mary got a reception much like that of that other Mary of the gospel, who was dragged into the center of the crowd before Jesus and accused of the crime of adultery. Mary Vecchio's friends were forbidden by their parents to see her. The principal of her school suspended her with the comment: "The youngsters didn't want to have anything to do with her, and I was proud of them." She was harassed by the police <picked up four times on charges, none of which held up in court) ; and the governor of Florida went on state-wide television im­
fiPrcenf>SS when he throws down the gauntlet to the villian. Pf>dro. The opening song. "Man of La Mancha," sung in har­mony with Sancho Panza, generates an t•xcitt•mt>nt and gaiety further intensified by lht• wide-mouthed and wide-eyed mimes who prance as their horses. 
The general company of prisoners seem crude and savage in the beginning but they slowly becomP civilized, and consequently lhP flashbacks to the prison scenes are not 
sharply defined. The fight sequences lack fast-pac(•d action, so that they dangerously shift towards a comic ballet rather than a spontaneous fight. 
Scott Wahle livensthe show with his now­cocky. now-bashful Tim Conway-like in­IPrpretation of Sancho. His opera-like trratmPnt of rt-ading Quixote's love letter to I>ulcint-a generatf>d much laughter while his eomic facial expressions to the words of "I Like Him." "pluck me naked as a scalded <:hicken. I Like Him," make the aucieoce roar. 
Aldonza. played by Johanna Drew physically conveys the cowering fiercenes~ of a fallen woman who tries to fend off the mule~eers. But her voice is flat, conveys no t>mot10n Instead of belting out, Aldon­
za speaks of the life of a whore "born on a dung heap." She strives for a light crystal voice quality more suitable for a Sacred H<'art Mass. The audience cannot believe in Aldonza. that she is moved by Quixote's mt'ssage to minister to her enemies, or to drt-a.m the impossible dream. They only 
' rece1ve a suggestion of what might have hPen. 
l
Clearly the drunken prisoner <played by David Rust l who assumes the role of the padrP, listening to Quixote's niece and , housekeeper confess their concern for the , nobleman who goes out on wild adventures offers a superb and well-proportioned performance. Antonia, the niece, played by l\1aura Murrihy. and Katherine Burke's portrayal of the saintly housekeeper with Ibulging eyes and huge dangling rosary are memorable. Their voices blend har­1m.oniously, t-ffortlessly, and although they smg that "In my body it's well know there is not one selfish bone," the raised eyebrows and upturned noses are comic hypocrisy. Although the orchestra has difficulty with . the overture they do an excellent job sup­

! plying that Mary was part of a Communist \ plot. She would have understood Eliot's cry. 
1 
Maybe we all can. But there's more to it I than that; we feel there has to be. We learn j about death; but we also learn about life, as 
did Lazarus. The Lazarus story continues. Jesus moves into the lives of each of us with his .de~!-h-defying call: "Stop dying; come to hfe. Our story is to be one of freedom. , 1 Faith in Jesus Christ is a process of 
I gradually being liberated from every sort of slavery of mind and body until not even the certainty of physical death is a hindrance to free and resoonsible livinll 
Jesus' first words to the onlookers at Lazarus' gravesite were: "Untie him and let him go free." That's what he says about us; and what He would say through each of us to one another --for we are called to lead each other towards fuller life. 
As seniors look back on four years and recognize that they are more alive today than when they came-what does this mean 
you might have life and have it to the full has reached out to them and touched the~' in mysterious ways, through mysterious hands. 
Graduation time is a good time to recall and affirm that God has not made us shape up; he hasn't kept us in line. He has kept us from making friends with death. He has wished to introduce us to life. And because of Him. and His continuing presence in and t~rough the people of our lives, we now have hfe and have it more in abundance. 
If J could have one wish for seniors, it would be that they know about and rejoice in the people that helped make them more ~live --because of what they brought to life m them. It would include the hope that somehow they continue to be concerned about doing t~at for others wherever they I 1 go; and, fmally, that they sense the gratitude of so many of us for the life they brought to us; those of us who remain behind and who will miss them very \llluch. 

_memorable 'man of Ia mancha' 
porting the singers, never overpowering ~~em·, The ~ass. gu.itar .,p.iano and flut~ on To I<.ach Ills Dulcmea 1s most soothmg. 

1:he inn~r play. movingly .en~s with 0 t~tnxote nsmg off h1s deathbed mvigorated hy strains of "The Impossible Dream" to set out on m·w adventures with his squire, only lo fall and die at the feet of his own llulcinf."a. But the actuai rnding of the production is an anticlimax. Cervantes, summom•d by tht> Inquisiti~ .. mounts the 
chris herlihv 
stairs to hiS trial and uncertam oeath, but he smiles and passes it off as if he were going to pay a parking ticket. The audience tends to overlook this. however, having already rt-ct•ived its catharsis with Don Quixote's dt>ath. 
Although tht> ND-SMC theater production lacks a Spanish navor and a continuous t'nt-rgy flow to unify it, the music and comic timing of many of its famous characters makPs it worth seeing. 


Monllay. AprU 18, 1975
the observer· 

... 
In Congress 

Approval expected lor .evacuation ·bill 
By GENE BERNHARDT in evacuating Americans and $177 million to pay evacuation be offered so it will be an up or than Ford's budget. It' would WASHINGTON <UPI) South Vietnamese from Saigon . costs and $150 million for down vote. result in a deficit of $73.2 
Final Congressiona! approval is The Senate already has expected this week for condi­approved the compromise bill, tional use of U.S. combat troops which includes authorization of 
Ladies of Notre Dame 
seek blood 
The Ladies of Notre Dame Blood 
Donor Program is currently 
seeking · individuals to donate 
blood t~ their program. The 
program. established in 1957, is a 
service for the faculty and 
professional staffs of Notre Dame 
and St. Mary's. 
"W<' are hoping that between now and the end of this school year many generous members of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's communities will volunteer to help build up our credits at the Central Blood Bank. We would like to be prepared to fill requests that may com~ during the summer and the beginning of the next school year," said Mrs. Lawrence Stauder, 


Degrees. to 
at May 18 
A total of 1,989 students at the University of Notre Dame, in­cluding 1,526 undergraduates, are candidates for degrees at the May 18 commencement ceremonies on the campus. Among the post­baccalaureate degree candidates are 116 doctoral students and 120 seeking the Juris Doctor degree from the Law School. 
One third of the candidates for the Master's degree, 40 out of 116, are women. A total of 199 women women or 10 per cent of this year's graduating class are women. 
Included in the undergraduate degrees are 680 candidates from the College of Arts and Letters, 401 

from Business Administration, 277 1 
ROTC students· win fellowships 
Three of a total of 40 post­baccalaureate fellowships awarded to students in the Army HOTC program at 290 universities in the nation have been presented to seniors at the University of Notre Dame. The fellowships provide tuition and living expenses while pursuing studies leading to a master's degree at any school of their choice. 
The recipients are David P. Dooley of Redstone Arsenal, Alabama. majoring in the Science Pre-Professional Program; James 
J. Ernzen, Batavia, Ill (622 E. Wilson), majoring in Mechanical Engineering, and Robert BP. Warburton, Idaho Falls, Idaho (229 K 20th SU, a senior in Govern­ment. 
Scholarship recipients are eligible for the 18-month fellowships at any time within five years after graduation. 
($~..._~· 
CAR PROBLEMS DON'T GET RIPPEDi OFF ON PARTSi FOR YOUR CAR! .. 
WE HAVE PARTS FOR MOST AMERICAN &
•
FOREIGNICARS AVAILABLE AT WHOLESALE PRICES 
HOFFMAN BROS.' 11-01 E. MADISON 
·23.4-0 181. 
donors 
program spokesman. 
Stauder stressed the importance of the Blood Donor Program, saying, "At present we know of one Notre Dame faculty member's daughter who is to have open heart surgery this summer. We would like to be prepared to spare this family the added expense for blood.'' 
Anyone who is of normal health can donate blood. Students in­terested in donating blood should call either Mrs. Lawrence Stauder at 234-7287 or Mrs. John Hauch at 232-9475 if in the Notre Dame community. If in the St. ·Mary's community, one chould call Mrs. Louis Tondreau at 232-8605. 

be avvarded 
cere.mony 
from Science and 169 from Engineering. There are 71 can­didates for master's degree in Business Administration, in­cluding six women. 
The total of 1,989 in the 1975 class compares with 2,216 last year, 2,090 in 1973, and 1,869 in 1972. There were 1,678 undergraduate degrees awarded last vear. 262 
master's and 136 doctoral degrees. 
A Baccalaureate Mass at 5 p.m. Saturday, May 17 will follow the traditional ROTC Commissioning exercises beginning at 10 a.m. in the Athletic and Convocation Center. Commencement ceremonies are scheduled to begin at 2 p.m. Sunday in the same campus facility. 

The Glenmary Home Mission­ers are looking for men and women who believe in people. Share yourself with the people of the South and Appalachia as a Priest, Brother or Sister. 
D Send free 17" x 22" poster, 
shown above D Please send information 
about Glenmary Home 
Missioners 

GLENMARY, Room #41 Box 46404, Cincinnati, Ohio 45242 
Name________________ 
Address _______________ 
City______Zip ____ 
Age_____ 
Phone._____ 

Vietnamese refugee relief. The House is set to take a final vote Tuesday, sending the bill to the White House for the President's signature. 
The measure's key provision is specific authorization to use troops, if necessary, to evacu­ate Americans and such South Vietnamese as can be ac­comodated. Preference is given 
to  those  who  run  a  "high  risk"  
of  Communist  reprisal  for  
having  associated  with  the  U.S.  

presence there. 
Congress believes the bill's language would prevent rein­volvement of U.S. troops in Vietnam fighting. 
The measure orders Ford to report to Congress just how the troops are being used and Congress reserves the right to disapprove the use and order the troops back out of Vietnam. 
Although the House took 15 consecutive hours to pass its version of the aid bill, the compromise agreement is ex­pected to win easy approval. 
llnder House rules, debate on the conference bill is limited to hour. No amendments can 
The  only  other  major  busi­ 
ness  before  Congress  this  week  
is  adoption  of  proposed  federal  

spending limits for the new 1976 fiscal year that starts July 1. 
Acting under a 1974 law, Congress will for the first time attempt to draft a budget of its own, a province traditionally left to Presidents. 
The Senate starts work Tuesday on a budget resolution which recommends, but does not require, that spending be held to $365 billion, $11.9 billion more than Ford has proposed. 
The House opens its budget debate Wednesday on a resolu­tion proposing, but also not requiring, a spending limit of $368.2 billion. $15.1 billion more billion. 

The Senate deficit would be $69.6 billion and Ford has publicly warned Congress he is "drawing the line" at a deficit level of $60 billion. 
The separate House and Senate budget resolutions would have to be resolved in a conference committee like any other piece of legislation passed in differing forms by the two bodies. 
The budget exercise is in the form of guidelines for the Congress in the 1976 fiscal year, but starting next year, when thE:> fiscal 1977 budget is up, any spending limit finally deter­mined by the House and Senate would be mandatory. 
PlAYLAND GOLF CENTER 
9 HC>LE • P~ 3 GOLF.COURSE Driving Range · · 18 Hale Miniafure 
LOCATED US 33 AT IRONWOOD 
Call I 288-0033 
If No Ans Call 282-2366 

1715 LINCOLN-WAY EAST SO. BEND 

MOnday·, 'Aprll 28;·1915 
the observer 

Electric shock that stuns 9 ­
Alternative to guns invented 

DETROIT <UPI) -Residents "Shooting a person is ir­for $199.50. It was invented by rechargeable battery. minutes. 
of crime-ridden cities may soon revocable," said Eliot H. Bank, John Cover, a California When it is fired, a small The weapon is marketed by a 
loss away their guns and arm the Detroit marketing agent for aerospace engineer who named gunpowder charge forces tiny subsidiary of Advanced Chemi­themselves with a less lethal the weapon, called a Taser. it for the initials of the words wires outward and hooks on the cal Technology of California. weapon that shoots out barbed "In terms of permanent 
"Tom Swift and his electric end of the wires prick the Alvin Simon, president of the hooks like an electric harpoon. injury, a baseball bat or a club rifle." 
victim's skin in less than a firm, said the Taser has been The hooks zap an assailant will do more harm than a The Taser resembles a twentieth of a second. 
tested on actual human sub­
with an electrical shock that is Taser." flashlight. It is nine inches The weapon sends out a jects and the victims suffered supposed to stun rather than The Taser, billed as "the first long, weighs a little over one 50,000-volt charge that can be 
no permanent ill effects. 
harm. alternative to the gun", sells 
pound and works on a continued or renewed by "It isn't a very good offensive pressing the trigger. The hooks weapon," Simon said. "You'reBy Syracuse physician also will pierce up to 11 2 inches not going to hold up a liquor
of clothing. store with a Taser. Its value is The wires and hooks are mostly in the surprise." contained in cartridges that slip One drawback to the weapon
New morality-termed destructive 
into the front of the weapon. is the length of the wires-only The cartridges cost $10 each 18 feet. To effectively stun an 
CHICAGO <UPI) Ten The simplicity of the male new conformity without won­and are not reuseable. assailant, the Taser shooter years as attending physician at anatomy and its operation, he dering where the old ideas Bank said the victim reacts must within that range. Syracuse University's health said, suggest that to a man, sex came from or why they the same way as if he grabbed But Bank thinks it's more a center has led Dr. Robert J. can be an activity apart from survived so long. The casual a live electric wire-the shock question ~f momentary harm Collins to one conclusion : the his whole being -a drive sexual relations of today causes a freeze-up of muscles. versus permanent injury or ''new morality" is a destructive related to the organs themsel­challenge patterns of living Hecovery takes about three death. fad. ves. developed over centuries," he 
"It ignores history, it denies In a woman, however, a said. the physical and mental compo­relationship is "engulfed in He ended with the story of a 
Gregory warns of rioting
sition of human beings, it is romanticism and trying to find Syracuse senior who once told intolerant1 exploitative and is and express her total feelings Collins of his experiences with oriented toward intercourse, not for her partner. 23 different girls. (Continued from page 1) promise, Gregory said, is that love," Collins said in an article "And now that it's about Throughout his speech,Gregory there are no radio stations in in this week's Joournal of the "Women love only in depth over," the senior said, "I have urged blacks to begin to use their Africa. American Medical Association. and with commitment to the learned that this did not bring political powers more effectively Abortion is used in America for 
"Ten years of listening to future," he said. "To be happy me happiness. My life will be and to direct these powers toward the purpose of "racial genocide," young women at a large they must have trust in their different because of my experi­social change. Gregory charged. He observed Eastern university have made partner -no casual affair that ences at this university." Gregory also" spoke out.strongly that there are over one hundred me aware of the sexual is coitus-centered gives this. "Good for him!" Collins said. against abortion. abortion clinics in Chicago neigh­
confusion of children of a "Anticipating love and hap­"But has anyone heard from Gregory said any country which borhoods capable of performing generation that either misun­piness, students rush for the the 23 girls'?" legalizes abortion has a ''death 80,000 abortion on black women derstood or ignored sexuality syndrome." He attacked the each year. and had little wisdom to pass claims of the population as a myth on to its self-liberated chil­Four spectators killed and noted that the world hunger A strong supporter of women's dren.'' problem is not caused by rights, Gregory stated that women 
Collins, now medical director population increases. who have abortions or use con­
•

of the Loretto Geriatric Center According to Gregory, over ten traceptives cannot truly be in Syracuse, said a basic flaw million tons of grain, sixty percent liberated. These are the products 
1n Spanish Grand ·Prix 
in the "new morality" is the of India's grain production, is of a male-dominated society, he eaten by rodents each year.· He
assumption that male and BARCELONA, Spain <UPI) Thee-dead included a fireman, said. 
female sexuality are the same. -The leading car in the a photographer and two specta­said the hunger problem is being 
After their first sexual Spanish Grand Prix auto race tors hit by flaming debris. exploited by persons who wish to After the lecture, Gregory ac­experience, he said, most hurtled over a guard rail West Germany's Rolf Stom­force population control on un­cepted a Circle of Life bracelet college girls react with some­Sunday and into the crowd, melen, 30, driver of the car, derdeveloped countries. from Joe Corpora and Pat CahiJl, thing like, "Is that all there is killing four spectators and suffered fractures in both legs, Gregory noted that Africans who presidents of the Notre Dame and 

to it?" injuri a dozen more. an arm and a rib. submit 
to sterilization are given St. 
Joseph County Right to Life dios. The · of this zations . 
•
DODDCIDg 

Coverage Of:
Suriimer 
Graduation 
Cheerleader's Co-nvention ' Alumni ReunionTen Weekly Letters .to a Lonely God 
-AdfninistratTon .Antics
Issues (Jun 12-Aug 14 ) Delivered to your 

$2 
~-------­
............

I (mail melJ 
I YES IEnrich my summer·! 
Brinp Your'52 
Name 

to th.e --·observer· ----------­Officer ·Or Sign-Up in the ·Address 
Dining Halls on Tues.:~~·~···-~~-···~~~~--~~-··•~ 
and Wed. Nights 


-------·---------------------------------------------~ 
10 the observer Monct.y, April 21, 1t75
-
Mountains)'border Washington, Oregon 
•

Students killed 1n avalanche 
STEVENSON, Wash. <UPI) \ t>ach side of the Washington-wind could trigger avalanches said Mrs. Patrick O'Leary only hope and pray about the -Winds to 70 miles per hour, · Oregon state line ~~d on a under such conditions, he said. Brian's mother, who talked t~ others." frigid temperatures and "whi-cl('"ar day both are v1s1ble from Brian P. O'Leary, 23, Seattle, hi_m b~ telephone. "They pulled It was the second time her teouts" Sunday drove rescue J-l.ghrise buildings in nearby Wash., and John R. McClaflin, h1m nght out in his sleeping son. a North Seattle Community teams back down icy Mt. St. Portland. 37, Kent, Wash., were among bag. College student, survived a 
Ht>lens, where they had been A Forest Service spokesman the hikers caught by the "His watch was broken. The mountain mishap, Mrs. O'Leary searching for six hikers missing said three feet of snow fell in avalanche. O'Leary was treated hands Wt>re crushed at 8:20 said. Two years ago Brian was in a spring avalanche. the last two days and "the for a sprained ankle and chest p.m. by the force of the trapped by a blizzared on Mt. 
Three students were reported ground. crystals we~e br,oken bruises and McClaflin received av.~lanche_. Hood with a couple of other killed late Saturday in the down hke ball bearmgs. The treatment for facial lacerations. HE> satd he was one of the climbers. They were eventually avalanche when spring snow, weight of hikers or even the "HE> was buried completely," lucky ones. He said they can rescued. 
~~~a~~~~tal~~ c;:~~~~ ~::i~~~·, Seduct1·on :used as form of
9,677-foot peak mto the 29­

treatment 
person party, sweeping six of 
the hikers away. 

WASHINGTON <U P I) "I know of too many cases of The survey found five general women may have in life, the
A spokesman for the Ska­

Some male psychotherapists actual seduction of female areas of sex bias and stereoty­use of sexist psychoanalyticmania County Sheriff's Office have tried to justify seducing clients by their male thera­ping in therapy -the fostering concepts, sexual exploitation of
said authorities at the scene 

women as a form of treatment, pists," one respondent said, of traditional sex roles, the female clients and viewing ofl'onfirmed that three of the according to an American "usually justified by the view downgrading of expectations women as sex objects.
hikers died in the mishap at the 

Psychological Association re-. that frigidity is a fate worse(i,500-foot level and three others port. It says some doctors with than death which can be 'cured'wt>re missing. 
female patients have a sex by the 'right male' -the 
Drugs .may curb leuke1nia 
Namt>s of the victims were 
bias. therapist."
withheld pending positive iden­

tification and notification of The draft report of an AP A The task force said it hoped MOBILE, Ala. <UPI) ttkt two drugs now under 
task force asked whether

relatives. the survey would make psy­Researchers say they may be research may be the answer to 
The mishap followed by only therapists actually have sex 
chotherapists aware of ways in optimistic, but they feel they curbing the action of the bias s-~ use sex-role stereoty­
a few hours an avalanche on which women have been have found the way to cure "T­pituitary gland. 
nearby Mt. Hood, in Oregon, ping and concluded, "The demeaned and inadequately cell leukemia," the most If the drugs can trigger bodythat ki lied Sallie Hee, 28, answer is yes, though good treated because of bias. common type of blood cell hormones into recognizing leu­Corvallis, Ore. She was an process studies of the therapy cancer in children. 
kemia cells and destroying
oceanography instructor at hour are lacking." It cited one study which said According to Dr. Herschel P. them, the disease can be
Oregon State University and The findings ranged far 5 per cent of male psychiatrists Bentley Jr., who heads the controlled. 
was leading a group of beyond the issue of doctor­admitted having intercourse team of doctors at the The t'reatment would notMazamas Club members down patient sex, but responses to with female patients. In ano­University of South Alabama work on B-cell or adult strainsthe 11,245-foot mountain when the survey by 320 female APA ther, 25 women reported having Medical Center, it is believed of leukemia.
the avalanche broke loose. members included references to sexual relations with psychia­The mountain peaks are on it. . trists. 
Ramp festival lures thousands 
Report from America: The Lure of Ramps  sample delicacy  the carry  wild, with  mountain them the  er he time,"  goes. said  "I get that the tall,  all the balding  
By CARL A. VINES COSBY, Tenn. <UPI) Picture a grassy hillside at  the  taste of their feast, and it will last for days to come. For those rest, it has been a pleasant day  highway patrol colonel, who has his remaining hair clipped short at the side and back.  


All Seats $2.00 

Reservations 
Students-Faculty-staff
284-4176 

"THE PAN-"  I•  
DEEP DISH PIZZA  I·I I  
for the . N.D. & S.M.C. COMMUNITY  I I I  
I  
IT'S AS CLOSE .AS YOUR PHONE  I II  

277-1221 or 277-1222! 
I I 
IFREE DELIVERY I 
. 

Many come just to enjoy the sun and the music and the people they meet. 
I 
, edge of the Great Smoky Mountains. 
From a patch of woods on the western slope, the smell of hardwood smoke, barbecuing chicken and steaming pots of ramps, the most celebrated local delicacy, simmering on wood stoves, tempts the ap­petite. 
Early on the last Sunday in April, the crowd gathers for the annual "Cosby Ramp Fes­tival." 
Ramps are cousins to the onion and to the lily. They grow wild in cool coves of the mountains of Tennessee and North Carolina, mostly above 2,000 feet. 
in the sun at this most celebrated of the ramp festivals in the Southeast's mountain country. 
At the base of the hill, there's a stage, center of the day's entertainment that will include gospel singing, country music, a beauty pageant and political speechmaking. 
"Ramp's the thing," said Mrs. Paul McAllister of Cosby, who really enjoys the annual feast of wild leek, prepareli with scrambled eggs, in a sweet, succulent salad, even raw with a pungent onion-like taSte. 
One of the unexpected attrac­
And each year members of a 
tions of the 1975 festival was a
local club make a camping trip 
Tennessee Highway Patrol of­
into nearby North Carolina to 
ficer -Col. Richard Dawson of
gather 80 bushels of ramps. 
Nashville. His resemblance to
Then there are two nights of 
Telly Savalas is remarkable.
cleaning and preparing for the 

feast. He was there as a judge for the beauty pageant, in which the 
Before dawn Sunday, the 
queen of the ramp festival is 

fires are lit and the cooking crowned annually.begins. But before the day's over, he
By midmorning Sunday the 
has posed with dozens of
hillside was crowded with 
visitors to the festival who want
almost 4,000 picnickers and 
their picture taken with this .

spectators -infants in strollers, :1 
deadringer for one of televi­toddlers watched over by sion's favorite p o 1icemen,anxious mothers and young 
1
Kojak.

people tossing Frisbies or baseballs or playing tag. "Where's your lollypop?" or, 
I

The ramp eaters who come to "Hi, Kojak," greet him wherev, 
THE BIKE RACK 
TUNE-UP NOW FOR SPRING. PARTS &SERVICE ON ALL AMERICAN AND 
FOREIGN-MADE BIKES LOCATED ONE BLOCK EAST I OF THE DISTILLERY ON RD. 23 '·IN GREENWOOD SHOPPING. CTR OPEN 9:30-6:30 DAILY MONDAY-SATURDAY. 277·13911 
t 
I 
I 
I 

FROM NOW UNTIL I FINALS, YOU'LL BE on or off-campus. I I STUDYING. TAKE 
-also quick pickup service I I A BREAK FOR 
I
DEEP DISH PIZZA 
107 DIXIEWAY NORTH ·JUST NORTH OF RANDA"tL'S INN
------•n -­


.., . 
. ; 

assador announces 
aiwan expects u~s. commitments to stand 
Summer storage tor dependable service call us! South Bend Storage. Free Pick-up aat room and free delivery to dorm Boxes-$5, trunk, 
• 

footlockers, or bikes-$6. Call 233· 
2613.
CLASSIFIED ADS 
CABINS ON LAKE MICHIGAN FOR RENT: only 30 min. fromOLDS Cutlass '67, small engine, Management Trainee 
HUMPHREY BOGART TONIGHT! campus. GINTARAS RESORT.
good mileage, 8-track tape: $500. To $14,000 
in the Treasure of Sierra Madre. 15860 Lake Shore Rd., Union Pier,New Remington 12-gauge pump Ready for a new career? We are 
6:30, 9, 11:30 pm, Eng. Aud. Mich. 616-469-3298. 
magnum : $120. Call 284-4008 or 234-interviewing for a management 8679. training program that will allow you 
Need help with term papers, Apt. to rent for summer. Approx 1
to ear11 $25.000 or more in 5 years 
reports, etc? Write Michiana
Stereo for sale: desperately need the while representing our top team of mile from campus. 2 bedrooms. 288­
Reference Service for rates and 
money best offer takes all. Steve, financial specialists in EQuities, 5083, 5-7pm.
details. P.O. Box 6247, South Bend,
1403. Insurance, Mortgages, and Tax 
IN 46615.

Shelters. Send your resume' to: Pioneer PL-51 turntable with Audio Charles M. Newbanks 
Free room in exchange for child LOST ANO FOUNDTechnica AT-125 cartridge. $180 or 120 w LaSalle, Suite 906 care. Details negotiable. Phone 232­best offer. Call Ed, 1389 or 1487. South Bend, IN 46601 
6362. Lost: silver ring with blue stone at the Tug 0 W'!lr. Call 3540. Reward
1972 Mercury Monterey, 4 dr., THE CHEAP TRUCK IS BACK! custom. power, air, gold with vinyl offering the lowest prices for 
FOR RENT Lost: jacket, navy blue with words 
top Best offer. Phone 288-1608 after baggage to Long Island. Our prices 
"CYO Camp, Christina Staff." 785-4,
5. are: trunks-56, suitcases-54, boxes­By Owner: 3-bedroom bi-level 
reward.
house. A-1 condition Large finished Hotel accomodation for Friday, May information call Leo at 1152. $2 rec room. central ir, fenced
$3, bicycles-S6, golf clubs-$3.50. For 
Lost: brown wire-rim glasses,
16. Call 6980. deposit reQuired. bac+o~ard. Under $301-.£325 E. Fair 
between D 1 and Cavanaugh. Please
Oa._:., Niles, Mich. 684 0621. 

call 1503.
Two Alice Cooper tix -4th row, at Brew~ter McCloud is winging his cost. Mike, 1850. way to Notre Dame, Aprjl 29 and 30. 2 rooms, private. $50. Kitchen, rides. 233 1329. 
PERSONALS

Piano for sale: upright . highest Accurate, fast typing. $.50 page. bidder. Call Mary or Janet, 6985. Close to N D Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. Three bedroom house close to NO, 
May 15 to Aug. 15. Carpeted and To the Roman Pontiff: 
Your cowardice in the face of defeat
Anyone owning a Canon FTb paneled living room complete NOTICES camera, please call 255-5848. Need kitchen washer and dryer, all is transparent. 
Feldhaus AntiChr istals

general information. utilities included. $150 per month. HOUSE PAINTING : two ex­Call Mrs. Cooper. 272-3004. 
Big 0:
perienced painters (graduates of Summer storage: dry, clean. safe, 
NO) will paint interior-exterior. reasonable rates, pick up and 2 bedroom furnished apt. at Campus HB 21st -a month ea. Sea Urchin
Very reasonable. Call 234-1889 for deliver at dorm. Call Mrs. Cooper, View for summer. Rent negotiable. free estimate. 2723004. Call 277-0003. 
Need your stuff shipped to Boston \ Typing done 35 per page, FOR SUMMER RENTAL: large 4-area? Call Milt, 1986, or Bob, 1972 for 
-cents NY Met. Club baggage truck to L.l.­
information.
· carbon copy, 5 cents extra. Call 272-NYC: call 3007 or 1986 for in­bedroom furnished house near Jeff. 5549 and ask for Dan. formation. 
Eddy. Big lawn. 2 baths, washer, dryer, utilities. $175. 234-1972. 
To an AR and an AR with a C. Debbie and Katie "what a bodY
ST. LOUIS CLUB TRUCK: leave the Typing, editing, dissertation 
you've both got." Flame on tor your
hassle to us. Our prices are: bikes­specialists, IBM, special symbols. Summer rental: 3 bedroom house, 
birthdays.
S7. trunks-56, footlockers-55. suit-Linda's Letters. 289-5193. furnished, corner of Notre Dame 
The little blond boy at the rally
. cases-$4, boxes and other items-$1 Ave. and Wayne St. Rent negotiable. per cubic foot. For information and STUDENTS: Don't throw away all Call 288-2825. reservations call Pat at 8640 or 8652. those things that you don't want or MEGAN: Cut it out or you'll be 
Furnished apt.• 503 W. Jefferson sorry. You're the one who dances inrefuse to carry home. Charitable 
Wake up, America! Louie's will be Organization wants your discards. duplex. 3 rooms, second floor. Gas the dining hall!! ' open all summer, Monday-Saturday, Free pick-up. Call 272-8333 after 5:30 heat furnsihed. 289-6307, 234-0596. 
, 5 pm-? Kate: remember THE VILLA?
and we will arrange to take those Need a place for summer? Fur­
items off your hands. 
nished full houses or single rooms at
OVERSEAS JOBS: Australia, ' To Paul Franci Ole Mason LeBRUN 
a discount rate. Walk to campus.
1 Europe, s. America, Africa. All private 3 rooms up for married the Third:
Call 233-2613. 

, Students, all professions and oc­graduate student. All utilities, near Happy 19th Birthday. cupations, $700 ot $3000 monthly. Memorial Hospital No rent in · From: one of the "geeks"
House for rent for next school year.
Expenses paid, overtime, sight­return for aiding parents to help lift Fully furniShed, 2 complete baths.
seeing. Free information. TRAN­lightweight son and daughter to and Poohs:
close to campus, s bedrooms. $280 You're all poohs and I don't careSWORLD RESEARCH, Dept. F3, from wheelchairs, etc. No nursing. 
per month. 233-2613.

Box 603, Corte Madera. Calif. 94925. 232-9128. anymore! 
....----·------­
WASHINGTON <UPI) -The 
ublic of China on Taiwan 

ill trusts the United States to 
up to its mutual defense 

ommitments despite serious 
erican policy setbacks in 

utheast Asia, Ambassador 
Chen said Sunday. 

"Obviously. we, like everyone 
lse. are watching," he said, 
JUt added: 
"Promises made, commit­nwnts undertaken by a govern­mt>nt are as valid as they are supposed to be. We have no n•ason to question the validity of your commitment." 
He noted the United States and Taiwan have been allies for many years under a mutual defense treaty signed in 1954 and "during the last two or three years your president and secretary of state assured us and reassured us that the United States stands by its treaty commitment with us in joint defense." 
The Shangai-born Chen, a 1935 graduate of the University of Missouri and ambassador since 1971, made his remarks in 
WANTED 

Riders wanted: leaving on May 16th (after graduation) for California. 283-6309. 
Need ride to Dayton. Call 1200. 
One girl needs housemates to live off campus for the next school year. 284­4828. 
Riders wanted: leaving May 12 for Bethesda. MD. Returning to N D campus on 16th for graduation. 283­6309. Call late. 
Desperately need ride to NEW HAVEN, CONN! Will share $ and driving. Celia, 4552. 
Part-time job -freshman or 
sophomore  to  become  Greyhound  
campus representative.  Call  Tom,  
272-1807.  

Need ride to Boston (Framingham l after exams. Call Jim, 8504. 
Students for light office work and telephone sales, salary and com mission. Apply 224 W. Jefferson, corner of Lafayette St., room 313. 
Students for light delivery, excellent pay. A.A.A. Advertising. Apply 224 
W. Jefferson, corner of Lafayette St., room 313. 
Need 1 filing cabinet or anything close. Call Bill. 6710. 
FOR SALE 

2 Lafayette 3-way speakers, $70. Call John, 288-7637. 
Refr1geretor tor sale. 6 cu. ft. ~. 
3231. 
Stereo . Peneson!c -portable, ex­
cellent condition. Inexpensive. Best ·offer. Cell Mary, 7953. 
Must sell now: 2 speakers, turn­table, 80-watt receiver, all Pioneer equipment, 9 mos. old, perfect condition. Price negotiable. Call Denny, 1052. 
Piano for sale by off-campus senior -SlOO or best offer. Call Ted, 289-1775. 
2-bedroom home 1 mile from NO. Call 272-9990. · 
Two Student Government defenders hack Observer guard · Ken 
. Bradford en route to a SG victory over the Observer staff Saturday mornin9. The game was part of the B-Ball marathon for Muscular Dystrophy. 
FRESHMAN FOCUSPOINT 
sponsored by WSNDAM 
Freshman Advisory Council 
presents 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
with COACH DAN DEVINE call up and talk to him--live on the air 
TONIGHT 
lOPM-llPM 
on 

WSND 64 
a radio interview (UPI-Audio's Washington Window>. 
Chen, who once was secre­tary to the late President 
Chiang  Kai-shek,  predicted  that  
his  death  this  month  and  the  
events  in  Southeast  Asia  will  

have no effect on U.S. relations with the Republic. 
"I do not expect any changes in our relationships ... ," he said. ''The relationship is based on our mutual concept or under­standing of what constitutes our common interests The United States has a fine record of standing by its commitments in its history and we do not think that ours will be the first ('Xception to that rule." 
Chen said he does not believe there were any secret commit­ments made by the United 
States to South ·vietnam after 
the withdrawal  of  U.S.  forces  
and  therefore  none  were  
broken.  
But  he  said  he  recognizes  
that  when  the  United  States  

initiated contacts with Peking, it was agreed that the U.S.· would gradually remove all its forces from Taiwan. 
This would not affect Ameri­ca's mutual defense agreement or jeopardize Taiwan's defense, c::en said. 
At present. some 4,:>00 U.S. servicemen, mostly Air Force, remain in Taiwan after a r scaling down from a high of some 7,000 in recent years. "It is not whether you have troops on the scene," Chen said. "It is whether you have the will to use the force. You <the United 
WIN A 1 0 SPEED BICYCLE 
AND CRUISE THE QUAD IN STYLE THIS SPRING/ 

States) have bases in Okinawa, you have bases in Japan and you have bases in the Philip­pines. It's really your prepared­ness, your readiness to use it, your will to use it to back up your commitment." 
BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY 
Good Potentia I I nco me No Age Barrier Full or Part Time Contact D. A. Doxie 503 N. Blaine Ave. South Bend, IN ( 219) 234-4469 

The Purchase of Any PRO TOOTHBRUSH at Notre Dame Bookstore 
Will Give You a Chance to Win This Bicycle ENTER TODAY 
[ 
l 
• 
12 the observer Morldat; A1H"II 21. 1~75 .. 
ND streaks, stalls lD scr1rn1Dage
by both defensive lines. Jeff
by Bill Brink 
Weston and Steve Niehaus, had 
Sports Editor 
good days for the first 'D', as did ... 

The fourth and final scrimmage reserves John 'Bubba' Galanis and before this weekend's Blue-Gold Ken Dike. The secondary units game was held Saturday in the held the passing game pretty much Notre Dame Stadium. and though in check, with short flare passes the offense was hot-and-cold, there and screens being the most suc­were somE' very impressive in­cessful aerials of the day. dividual performances. Tht> first offense opened the 
It was the first offense vs. the scoring early, after John second defense, and the second Dubenetzky intercepted a Joe offense vs. the first defense for Montana pass on the second play of four 15 minute quarters, and after the afternoon. The first '0' took a close struggle the first '0' over on the 25 and drove down to <'merged with a 20-17 advantage on the 3 yd line on the running of Russ a 22 yard Dave Reeve field goal Kornman and Art Best. Best with 31 seconds left on the clock. plunged to the 2 for a first down, 
Though two of the day's four and Mark McLane swept around touchdowns were scored on pass the right end for the score. plays, they were the result of Both teams traded punts for the spectacular after-the-catch runs, next couple of sets of downs as the and overall it was individual defenses tightened up, but after a rushing performances that proved penalty put the first defense back to be the highlight of the day. Both on their own 8 yd line. McLane the first and second offenses hit fumbled on a draw play and the cold spots and stalled at times, but second team recovered at the 4. all six running backs on both teams Steve Orsini fought his way to the 1 were impressive in their play. on great second and third effort, Halfbacks Russ Kornman and and then scored on the next play. Mark McLane of the first team and The extra point tied the squads at 7 , Steve Schmitz and John Rufo of the apiece. 
STEVE ORSINI fights his way into the end zone for a touchdown in saturday's scrimmage. (Photosecond often broke long-gainers on The first '0' struck back quickly by Tom Paulius) slants and sweeps, while starting on the very next play. QB Rick the left side for the touchdown. Forystek hit halfback John Rufo at Weiler. the first '0' drove to the 6 fullback Art Best and his second· Slager scrambled from the pocket After several more punts, the the 47 for a first down at the 47 yd. where Forystek und~rthrew wide team counterpart Steve Orsini and hit wide receiver Ted second team took over ontheinwn line. and 2 plays later he completed open John MacAfee m the end zone were successful up the middle. Burgmeier on the right sideline at :J8. Gary Forystek took over at a flare pass to Steve Schmitz at the on third down. Reeve came in and When the offenses did stall it was the 40. Burgmeier cut across the quarterback when Montana left 50. Schmitz outran everyone down punched· over_ a. 22 yar~er wit~ 31 because of some aggressive play field and outraced everyone down the game with a jammed thumb. the left sideline for the TD, and seconds remammg to g1ve the first Heeve's extra point tied it again at team a final 20-17 margin. 14-14. The coaches then watched the That was to be the last time third and fourth teams scrimmage either squad crossed the end line before calling it a day. as the offenses could not put Once again the day proved costly together a sustained drive, despite as the Irish extended their injury fine running performances. The list even further. Slager's x-rays spcond 'D' forced a couple fumbles were nPgative. but his bruised ribs and Niehaus and company made will put his availability on a day-to­things tough for the second offense. day basis. Montana suffered a Later in the scrimmage, after jammt.'d thumb, but is expected getting the ball on the second back soon. Steve Schmitz suffered team's 45, BPst and McLane traded a mild ankle sprain and Gene runs to lead the first '0' down to Smith has a contusion of the thigh. the 13. Slager was dropped for a l\1orP serious wPrP injuries sur­three yd. loss, and Dave Reeve fered by defensive backs Pat Sarb camP in on fourth down to hit a 34 and Bob Zanot and lineman Ross yd. field goal and put the first team ( 'hrist iansen. Sarb fractured his up 17-14. Slager left the game after thumb. Zanot has a hairline that with a rib injury, and Gary fracture of a cervical vertebra and Forystek, who started the game on Christiansen will undergo surgery the bE>nch. found himself in the for lorn knE>E> cartilege. All three number 1 quarterback position. will miss the rest of spring prac-After the second team answered lice. with a 43 yd. field goal, the game ThE> Irish will finish up drills this remained tied at 17 until the last week in anticipation of Saturday's minute of the game. The first team BluE--Gold game, the final workout went into a hurry-up offense. of the spring. The game is Using a two tight~nd offensive line scheduled for I :30 <EST) in the and some find running by Jim Notre DamE> Stadium. 
Irish drop two at Michigan 
by Rill Brink 

In the second game, ND once the 5th on an error by the
Sports Editor 

again started the scoring with a Wolverine first baseman, but it 
It was a gloomy weekend all run in the top of the first. Stratta wasn't important anyway as around for the Notre Dame doubled off the left field fence and Michigan's Ted Mahan iced the Baseball Team. Friday afternoon was singled in, and pitcher Bob gamt> with a grand slam home run they travelled to Ann Arbor, Hughes limited the Wolverines to 1 m the bottom of the inning. Al1 the 
a

Michigan only to drop run going into the third. runs were unearned however, so 
hearbreaker and a Iaugher to the Stoltz's earned run average
Michigan then unleashed for a
Wolverines, and their scheduled remains below .100.
series of base hits in the bottom of 
home doubleheader against ND travels to Evanston today to
the third to take a 5-1 lead and send 
Western Michigan yesterday was meet NorthwE-stern ina single
HughE-s to the dugout. Mitch Stoltz 
postponed because of rain. 
game at 2:00. They return home
replaced him and squelched the
The Irish had the first game rally. tomorrow for a doubleheadersewed up· on Friday until a last­against Michigan State, beginning inning rally gave the Wolverines a Notre Dame gained back a run in at I p.m.
4-3 victory. The second game was no contest as Michigan pounded out ten hits to roll to a 10-2 win. ND 
by Maureen Flynn placed 4th and 5th respectively. was held to seven hits on the day by The Irish started slowly, but came strong Wolverine pitching. The women's varsity crew back in the second 500 meters of In the first game Bob Stratta led 
retained its hold on the lightweight the race to finish less than 1 second Ihe Irish into the bottom of the title Saturday at the Midwest behind the Wichita boat, with a seventh with a 3-1 advantage. ND Spring Championships in Madison, time of 4:43. Wisconsin's winning had opened the scoring in the first Wisconsin. time was 4: 16.3. on a double by Stan Bobowski and 
The Irish lightweights pulled In the men's competition, both a single by Frank fiasci. ahead in the first 300 meters and Irish varsity and junior varsity 
But in the bottom of the seventh maintained their lead to complete crews went down against stiff Stratta gave up a single to the first 
the 1000 meter~ourse with a time of competition. The Irish varsity batter and walked the next. 
4:40.4. Minnesota placed second started well, but were over­Michigan's next batter lined a shot with a time of 4:56.9 while powered in the 2000 meter race and to center on which Bobowski Nebraska finished third with finished 6th, 2.4 seconds behind almost made a spectacular catch. 
5:02.8. Nebraska State. Wisconsin took ThE> Michigan baserunners thought 
The women's varsity originally first with a time of 6:39.7, followed he had and held up, and the bases captured the Lightweight by Kansas State and Purdue. The were loaded with none out. Championship last year at the end junior varsity also lost to Wolverine Dick Walterhouse then 
of its first season. This year's Wisconsin. finishing 5th behind smashed a triple to right to give
victory caps an undefeated season Kansas State with a time of 7:15.9. Michigan the game. Stratta had for the Irish lightweights. Both men and women will given up only four hits until the 
The women's novice crew also tompete this weekend at the seventh while Michigan hurler competed Saturday, finishing third Middle America Collegiate Rowing Craig McGinniss held :he Irish to 4 behind Wisconsin and Wichita Association <MACRA) regatta in for the game. Stratta 's record now 
State. Purdue and Minnesota Marietta, Ohio. stands at 4-2. 




---------------------------------~
~~­







