......-------------------------------~--~--~ 
l 
Social action program outlined to fight injustice 
by Bob Mader the people and how adequately it 1976, Deardon explained. Campus Editor fulfills its pastoral mission. American culture and the teach­This phase also hopes to examine ingsof the Church must test each 
The Catholic Church's Bicen­the experiences of Catholics in other before any plan for social tennial Program to combat social their communities and find out ministry can begin. injustice "must involve the full what hopes Catholics have for the "To put it more precisely, if we community of the Church if it is to Church in the future. are to have a Catholic dialogue succeed," John Cardinal Dearden "Briefly put," Dearden stated, there must be a testing of the said last night. "the listening -learning phase is a experience and opinions of the 
The Archbishop of Detroit data gathering process. If done community by the normative outlined a two part social action well, it should provide a sampling teaching of the Church," Dearden program of the Catholic bishops of of what our people are thinking and said. America in his address to the what they are experiencing each The bishops intend to develop " Catholic Committee on Urban day." teaching document and a plan of Ministry <CCUM) conference. pastoral action" during the Detroit 
''Basically, our plan for the Second phase: pastoral actio.a meeting, the Cardinal said, in American Church has two order to begin social change. dimensions," the Cardinal said. The reflection-response phase of "The Church, then, not merely "We can speak of a listening­the Bicentennial Program will be a proclaims but is itself an agent of 
learning phase and a reflection­sifting of the data obtained in the social justice. Social injustice is response phase." first phase resulting in a plan of not something we read about in 
Deardon explained the listening­pastoral action and social textbooks or hear denounced in learning phase, implemented th­ministry. pastoral letters. Social injustice rough national hearings and parish This phase will extend through takes the human shape and lives discussions, as an attempt to the national consultation on liberty among us," Dearden said. i discover how the Church lives with and justice at Detroit in October. (cQ.!1Jinued on page 1) 
Reactions mixed on 
Vol. X, No. 42

new graduate policy 



by Maureen Flynn Senior Staff Reporter 
Members of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology have 
voiced both praise and criticism for reorganization of the new 
graduate program and the approval of a new departmental policy 
on teaching loads and credits. 
Comments ranging from "disastrous" to "very promising" have 
been directed at the graduate program scheduled for im­
plementation in the spring semester. 
Under regulations passed last May in an executive session of the 
faculty, the program of graduate studies will be re-structured as 
team-developed seminars in four "core" and four "specialty" 
areas. Seminar offerings will alternate on a yearly basis and a 
limited system of electives will be offered by individual faculty th­
ree semesters out of every four. 
One department member, who preferred not to be named, listed 
the pros and cons of the seminar structure. "The student really 
profits," he said, "by getting two or three different views of a 
problem. We hope this will generate ideas among the students," he 
explained. "Instead of spoon-feeding them one professor's 
viewpoint, the presentation of different opinions will make them 
use their brains more." 
"My experience with seminars," he continued, "has been that 
some work and some don't. The student will get no more out of it 
than he puts in." In any class, the professor noted, "student input 
is just as important asthe professor's output." 
Randy Haefner holds the pumpkin head which won for two at the Boar's Head Restaurant. other prizes 
him Most Outstanding {first prize) in the First were given to Kathy Knue and Marian Toth for Most 
Annual Stanford-Farley Pumpkin Carving Contest. Original, Kathy Robinson for Most Studly, Jill
Despres sees graduate improvement 
His prize, which was awarded even though the Truitt and Scott Dentz for Most Feminine, and Dave 
pumpkin covered Haefner's own head, was _dinner lazzeri who won the Booby Prize.
Department Chairman Leo A. Despres sees the new program as 
a great improvement over the present system. Currently and in the 
(Photo by Chris Smith) 

past, he explained, each professor decided which courses he would 
like to offer on a graduate level. Because of the nearly equal 
numbers of faculty and graduate students (24 to approximately 35), 
professors offered courses on a rotating basis over a three or four 
year period. 
"How can the graduate student plan his schedule of studies," scholarships total 911 and are
by Kathy Mills and not the principal from anDespres asked, "when he doesn't know which courses will be of­Senior Staff Reporter valued at $1,077,268. Outside endowment," she pointed out.

fered from one semester to another?" 
scholarships, valued at $999,510, "For example, on an .$8 millionThe solution to this problem, Despres stated, was either to create number 887. ROTC scholarships,

Fifty-five per cent of the un­endowment, we can spend only a graduate school faculty or develop a seminar system. 
numbering 389, are valued at

dergraduates at Notre Dame are approximately $320,000 per year."
''It would be foolish," he argued, "to waste the resources of the $1,187,086.
receiving some form of financial McCauslin also said the amountdepartment"' by having a graduate faculty "when we have so aid this year, according to a available from these endowmentsmany very bright assistants and associate professors." 
Describes funding

preliminary report from the Office fluctuates each year since theThe seminar system, Despres stated, "encourages the in­of Financial Aid and Scholarships. returns on the investments change. 
volvement of almost two-thirds of the department in the graduate A total of 3,763 students are McCauslin said University­Corporations contribute a minor
program and allows us to utilize all our intellectual resources." are
collectively receiving $7,696,772, administered scholarships part of the scholarship money,The definite rotation of courses, said Despres, also allows the an all time high, in financial funded by endowments and con­according to McCauslin.
graduatestudent to plan his course of studies over a two or three assistance. The average amount tributions. The contributions, she "Over the last five years, we lostyear period. 
each of these students receives is noted, come mainly from in­a great majority of corporationThe new system will limit the number of areas covered by the $1,411. dividuals interested in the scholarships because the boards ofgraduate program, Despres noted, "but it will allow us to focus on June McCauslin, director of the University. directors in the sixties didn't wantareas of strength.' 
Office of Financial Aid and "Normally," she stated, "it's an to give to individual students," she Scholarships, explained these interested alumnus who has explained.
Graduate program too small figures represent all types of enough money to contribute or who "Companies also used to employ financial assistance available to triggers off someone's interest in scholarships as a recruitingAnother member of the department, who preferred to remain students. the University." device, but they found this was notanonymous, said it is a "form of madness to put so many resources These include University­Many endowments come from too successful. Imagine theinto the graduate program. The department presently services adiministered scholarships, ROTC people who will money to Notre decrease also has something to doabout 1200 undergraduates, including more than 100 majors,"the scholarships, state scholarships, Dame. with the economy," she added.
professor observed, "while the total number of graduate students National Merit and National The values of the scholarshipsin residence is about 35." 
Achievement Scholarships, bank funded by the University's en­Two factors consideredThe faculty member further charged that the "disproportionate loans, federal grants and aid from dowment range from $10,000 tocommitment of faculty to team-taught seminars shortchanges 
other sources outside the $1,000,000, McCauslin noted, All University-administered
undergraduate instruction." 
although one is worth $8 million. scholarship awards are based on(continued on page 4) University. 

-
University-administered "We can spend only the interest (continued on page 41· 


the observer 
warld briefs 
LONDON <AP)-A bomb exploded Wednesday night inside an Italian restaurant in a fashionable London district. Scotland Yard said at least 17 persons were injured. 
There was no warning before the explosion, which came hours after police detained eight persons for questioning about the latest outbreak of bombings in London. 
MADRID, Spain CAP) -Generalissimo Francisco Franco talked with members of his family Wednesday, officials said, as attending doctors reported no improvement in the Spanish leader's struggle for life. 
The government, meanwhile, prepared to transfer power despite 
Franco's lingering hold on life, informed sources reported. They 
said his designated heir, Prince JHuan Carolos de Borbon, had 
agreed to accept temporary power to give Spain a working chief of 
state. 
WASHINGTON <AP) -Overseas cables and telephone calls of 
1'650 Americans ranging from plitical dissidents to suspected drug 
traffickers were targeted for interception over a six-year period by 
the National Security Agency, the Senate intelligence committee 
was told Wednesday. 
In the first public testimony ever given on the details of any NSA 
operaton, Air Force Lt. Gen. Lew Allen Jr., the agency's director, 
said that between 1967 and 1973 the NSA monitoring operation 
produced 2000 reports on international narcotics trafficking. 
UNITED NATIONS, N.Y. (AP)-The General Assembly's main 
political committee Wednesday endorsed two rival and mutually 
exclusive resolutions on the future of the U.N. Command and U.S. 
troops in South Korea. 
an campus taday 
2:30 p.m. seminar, "some qualitative properties of nonlinerar richardson.type arms race models" rm. 212, eng. bldg. 
4:00 p.m. -seminar, "chlorophyll and light-energy transduction in photosynthesis" radiation research bldg. 
4:30 p.m. -colloquium, "automorphle chomonlogy on homogenous complex maniflods", rm 226, computing center. 
S:OO p.m. _ evensong vespers, log chapel. 
7:30 p.m. lecture, "sex, eros, friendship and charity" lib. aud. 
8:00 p.m. -performance, ballet repertory company, o'laughlin aud., admission $3.50, $2.00 for students. 
Despite national drop • 
Notre Dame SAT scores stable 
by John Hannan Staff Reporter 
A nation-wide trend towards lower SAT scores has not affected the quality of students in the Notre Dame community, according to Larry Burns of the Amission Of­fice. 
"Ifanything thequalityof students we have been getting at Notre Dame has been rising over the last 
few years," said Burns although he admtttl:'d it was not a substantial increase. 
He felt the stability of Notre Dame SAT averages was due both to the work of the Admissions Office and the high quality of students applying here. The average SAT score for an N.D. st­udent is 550 on the verbal section and 620 on the math section, with women being a little higher on the verbal score. 
He stated that the situation here at Notre Dame is the same at other schools with selective admissions procedure, like Harvard. He also noted that Notre Dame has found the SAT scores combined with the high school record to be indicative of success in college. 
Dr. Grande of the Freshman Year Office commented that drops in scores do not necessarily in­dicate poorer students overall. SATs also measure the educational experience of the student, not only their apptitude. 
He stressed the fact that students 
are being compared to a fixed reference group of 1948, with the average SAT being then set at 500. "We now have a wide variety of 
people  taking  the  test,"  stated  
Grande.  "In  1948 the ref erence  
group  was  of  a  higher  socio­ 

economic status." 
Grande also stated that another part of the problem could be that the statistics of the test aren't working. The tests are built on 
The Ob!.erver is published Monday through Friday and weekly during !he summer session, except during exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre D'ame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 10 dollars per semester ( 18 dollars per year l from The Ob· server. Box Q, Notre Dame. In diana. 46556. Second Class postage paid. Notre Dame, IN-'46556. 
-· _ _ At1ALWAU.ISP,..J.,Iooo

~M;l _. _____ 
~ )IL\'I'IIIUUJIE' ~~ 
~Ei")B~~~
(...and the 1 _.._,.,. ~ AL~lllRSAl ,,CT~RI • T[(HNICOI.OII'. PM<A>ISION' -~J Free 
Fri. at 7:00,9:00 PM. Sat.-Sun. at 1:15,3:10, 5.: 10, 7:20, 9:45PM, Parkin 
•MEL 





BROOKS' tOUMcfRAI 
F . f 7 30 9 35 P 

~----====--­
MIDNITE sHow-EVERY.-FRI &-sAr-R~~v~E~D 
------------------------------~ 
B-ball tix availablenext month 
by Don Reimer Busick noted that many students Staff Reporter may have lost the reciepts from . . !last spring so a student I.D. will be 
Student ba~ke~ball tickets w11l sufficient t~ obtain the tickets. probably be .d1str1bu~ed on Nov: 19 · Each ticket must be signed for or 20 accordmg to Mlcha~l Bu~lck, when it is picked up. Students ma.nager of the athletic · ticket ·picking up m th t' k t
office. . ?re an one 1c e Busick said yesterday that the ,Will. have .to Sign for all of them, 
· reason tickets were being Busic~ pomt~d .out. , distributed so late was to reduce B.ustck said It w?n t be know? the danger of students losing them u.nttl the last ~eek m ~ovember 1f before the season and being forced smgle-g.ame tickets ~1ll be sold to to pay the $15 fee to obtain another thepu~hc. He explal~ed that the 
ticket. deadlme for s~as?n tlck.et holders Students who failed to purchase ~o reorder thetr tickets IS October basketball tickets either last spring 31, and these ~rders as well a_s any 
or at the one-day sale earlier this ~.ew season h~ket orders W_Ill be semester may still apply to recieve hlled before smgle game tickets tickets at the student rates . To ar~ offered. 
receive the tickets which are $21 ~f we can sell<~ut on ?, season bleacher seats students must take bast.s we are gomg to, stated an application at gate 10 of the Bustck. . . . . ACC, according t(; Busick. Concernmg posstble smgle tlc~et 
Busick emphasized that the sal.es .~or the UCLA game Bus1ck absolute deadline for student ticket s~1d. I doubt that t~e UCL~ game applications would be Wednesday w1ll be. open to pubhc sale. 
Nov. 5. ' Busu:k encouraged any student who has not yet purchased a season ticket but wouldlike to
If students who bought tickets attend some of the big gamest takelast spring specifically requested to 

advantage of the late sale ofbe seated together, Busick said, 
they will be issued adjoining seats. If students did not ask to be seated together but bought their tickets consecutively in line, Busick stated they will not be guaranteed seats together, though in all probability their seats would be adjoining. 
Pick-up procedure 

At the time to be announced for distribution of tickets, students should go to the ticket windows in the ACC .. where each student will be allowed to pick up a maximum of four· tickets. 
Either a student I.D. or last year's receipts will suffice to get the tickets according to Busick. 
ehain items, questions that progressively less of the students should be able to answer. When a question is being updated, its replacement is made to match the old question's difficulty. 
From year to year the variance of one test's accuracy to the next test is a minor percentage, but added over a period as large as the last thirty years, these changes could distort the test results. The Educational Testing Service, with whom Grande is associated, is 
trying to solve these problems. 
Grande felt that the factor most likely causing the decline is the way students are being educated. 

ANTONIO'S RESTAURANT 
and LOUNGE 
CELEBRATE a VICTORY over NAVY this weekend at ANTONIOS. Specialties are Italian-American food. Super pizza and spaghetti! Delicious steaks and seafood! 
ENTERTAINMENT FR-SA-SU  
SUNDAY LIQUOR LICENSE  
11503 lincolnway West in Osceola  Non-ticketholders welcome to  
674-9928  Enjoy the game in the Lounge!  

tickets. He pointed to the great savings over a regular season t­icket and the fact that it many be difficult to obtain tickets for in­dividual games. 
The student saves $1.70 per game and realizes an overall savings of nearly 60 percent by purchasing a student season ticket according to Busick. 
Busick noted that thus far 3,9000 student tickets hadbeen sold to St. Mary's and Notre Dame students. 
Increased demand 

"Demand has increased tremendously" for tickets this year according to Busick. Busick noted that demand for season t­ickets had especially increased and he cited the larger number of Saturday games and the good schedule as reasons for this great­er demand. 
Adrian Dantley's decision to return for his Junior year and the fact that three good freshman had been recruited were among other reasons cited by Busick for the great ticket demand. 

''BU -1964 -JFK'' 
T·. a coin collector, the above has 1he following denotation: 
"Brilliant Uncirculated Kennedy Half Dollars, 90 percent Silver Content. These coins have a numismatic value, have a value for their high silver content, and are US Legal Tender." 
Since 1964 was the only year in which 1he US Bureau of the Mint produced 90 percent silver JFK half dollars, this is a key coin for collectors. We have acquired a volume quantity of Brilliant Uncirculated 1964 JFK half dollars and as such can offer these highly regarded coins on the basis nf only $7.50 per ounce of silver content, plus $.30 per ounce for postage and handling. Due to the high volatility of the silver market, this offer will expire Nov. 15, 1975. 
BMA MARKETING, DOWNTOWN STATION, 
P. 0. BOX 1668, PHOENIX, ARIZ. 85001 
"Satisfaction full seven d 

.. .... 
.... .. .. ...
~ 

. -.·.. · .. . •• . • ... ._••• "' ' ' \ ........ ' '! t 
Thursday, October 30, 1975 
the observer 

Quinlan case controversy examined at ND 
by Cathy Cannon Staff Reporter 
Misunderstanding over the term 

"euthanasia" is causing much of 
the controversy in the Karen 
Quinlan case, according to several 
Notre Dame law professors. 
The case involves a New Jersey 

girl in a coma since April 15. Her 
parents have petitioned the courts 
to allow the respirator now keeping 
her alive to be removed. 
Some have claimed if the court 

rules in her parents' favor, the 
precedent could be applied to the 
mentally retarded and the elderly. 
Stanley Hauerwas, an associate 

professor of Theology, said, "It is 
being claimed that this is a case of 
euthanasia but that is putting 
someone to death to let them 
escape pain. Here it would just be 
letting her die. There is a clear 
difference.'' 
Father Leon Mertensotto, also 

an associate professor of Theology, 
said, "The death blow has already 
struck; the respirator is merely 
prolonging the dying process.'' 
Law professor and Right to Life activist Dr. Charles Rice said, "Pope Pius XII said truly ext­raordinary means did not have to be used to sustain life. Both the Quinlan's pastor and the bishop of their diocese have said ex­traordinary means are being used. In that case I would be in favor of turning off the machine." 
Karen Quinlan was reportedly mixing alcohol and drugs on the day she lapsed into the coma. The combination of the two depressants can cause paralysis of the breathing and nerve centers. Brain damage results within five to ten minutes when a body has been deprived of circulation or respiration. 
This probably occurred in her case. Three neurosurgeons have examined Karen. All of them say her brain has suffered irreparable damage, turning her into a com­plete vegetable. 
Her doctors refuse to disconnect the respirator because they feel it would be an act of homicide. Karen is alive according to the current methods of determining death. Her EEG reveals some brain activity. She can breathe without the respirator for up to half an hour. Some of her reflexes still respond to stimulus. 
Types of t'Uthanasia 

In defending their positions, both Hauerwas and Mwensotto stressed the difference between active euthanasia and passive euthanasia. 
Active euthanasia involves administering a lethal dosage of a drug or withholding ordinary means of support, while passive euthanasia involves withholding extraordinary means of support. The problem with this is that no one has defined extraordinary sat­isfactorily. 
Mertensotto said if substantial benefit will result to the patient as a result of the treatment, it is not extraordinary. 
For example, a respirator would not be an extraordinary means of support to someone with pneumonia who would only need it for a week before being able to resume a normal life. 
He elaborated, "The facts of the this should have come to court. The law is still working with a primitive notion of death which does not correspond to medical practice today. I am hoping the 

law  will  distinguish  between  
euthanasia and  letting  someone  
die. I think this is the  one good  

thing that will come out of this case.'1 "The courts should not become 
since precedent has persuasive authority from one state to another." 
Mertensotto agrees with Kellenberg. He explained, "Since we need laws to protect life and prevent active euthanasia the courts are the proper bodies to decide to apply these laws. Cases such as this one can not be decided by the religious beliefs of the familv." 
Karen is alive according to the current methods of determining death. Her EEG reveals some brain activity. She can breathe without the respirator lor up to hall an hour. Some of her 
reflexes still respond to stimulus. 
Quinlan case are these: 1) she has irreparable brain damage, 2) she will always remain a vegetable, 3) no quality of human life exists. It seems that the patient is receiving no substantial benefit from the machine. In this case, it would be permissible to disconnect the respirator." 
Disagreement exists over bringing cases such as this one to court. Some say such an emotional issue should be decided by those directly involved, while others say because it is such an emotional issue it should be brought to court. 
· Court action 
Hauerwas said, "I don't think 

Advance individual effort 
Protestant Ethic idea discussed 
by Karilee Clark 

Staff Reporter Dr. Karl Weinstraub, Dean of Humanities at the University of Chicago. dealt with the idea behind 
the  Protestant  Ethic  and  
Franklin's  use  of  it  in  his  
autobiography,  in  a  speech  last  

night in Carroll Hall. Weintraub called the Protestant Ethic, "a uniquely American idea" in his 
talk before an audience of 50 people. 
The Ethic is a pragmatic ap­praoch "meaning whatever works, is good to do." It also deals with advancement of oneself through individual effort. 
Weinstraub went on to say that the idea of advancing oneself through working is the central theme of the Protestant Ethic. ''Man works to receive God's grace," explained Weinstraub. 
''God by his wisdom would save only a predetermined few, and not knowing ourselves who these would be, men would strive to prosper themselves out of gratitude," Weinberg quoted from Franklin's autobiography. 
Dr. Weinstraub ' quoted from Benjamin Franklin's autobiogr~phy on the idea of not wasting thme "Because of the horror of wasting time," Franklin wrote, "it gave rise to individual work.'' 
Although Franklin did not follow any one religion or belief, Wein­straub said, his ideas were along te lines of the Protestant Ethic. 
Benjamin Franklin "although not an agnostic made a puritanists rmage and personality without the objectivity." 
He prospered himself to get 

*1\HE~* ~"~oc:.'t~D/Nc Cd 
The Outpost invite you to a free Cross Country SKIING Clinic : Movie and 
Discussion on the 
sport. Thursday 
October 30 
7:30 m 

Dr. Karl Weinstraub explains that "Man works to receive God's grace" 
in his speech last night at Carroll Hall. (Photo by Chris Smith) ahead rising from obscurity and see in him the American poverty. "Those who want to help heritage.''themselves, will make it," he Dr. Weinstraub received his 
wrote. B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. from the 
Weinstraub went on to say that University of Chicago in "individual success goesont(lsocial Humanistics. He has been reform. Franklin sees social teaching since 1954. Dr. Wein­reform as God's law." straub wrote the book Vision of 
Weir•straub also stated that, Culture and is presently writing"Benjamin Franklin is an another on the History of the Aut­American patron saint ... one can obiography of Benjamin Franklin. 
ARMANDO FORMERLY OF ROCCO'S-BARBER SHOP, IS NOW LOCATED NEAR CAMPUS TO GIVE YOU THE CUT OR STYLE THAT YOU WANT 
c;:/f'l.mando'j. !Ba'tbe'l. & c;)fai'l. ~tyfe Shop 
OPEN SIX DAYS A WEEK 
MONDAY THRU FRIDAY 8 TO 5:SO -SATURDAY 8 TO 4 
PERSONALIZED SERVICE 
ARMANDO FEMIA 1437 N. IRONWOOD DR. PHONE 277-0615 SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 
mvolved in setting such stan­dards," Rice added. "The proper body is the legislature." 
Law professor Conrad Kellen­berg disagrees. "The legal in­stitution· is the proper body to make such decisions. But great weight should be given to the views of theologians and physicians," he said. 
"It might well be that legislation should be passed," Kellen berg added, "but family law matters are the province of each state so we would have 50 sets of laws governing the matter. It would be easier to do it by judicial decision 
The legal implications of the case are also in dispute. Some have 
claimed that this decision will involve the courts in other decisions on euthanasia or cause hospital beds to be occupied by the hopeless while other patients are neglected. 
"Depending on the test used by t­he judge in determining the case," Kellenberg said, "the implications would be wide and far reaching.'' 
Rice disagreed, saying, "This is actually a very limited case but more could be made out of it. The media has distorted the case and blown it out of proportion.'' 

"LADIES, NIGHT,, 
TUESDAY & THURSDAY 
. -. DANCE THIS WEEKEND TO 

PATCHWORK 
MICHIGAN'S TOP ROCK NIGHT CLUB!
•4, 
•uIIIAGY'I 


J_pg~f'l 

ar s 0. 

Parts & accessories for imported cars. for all makes at lowest prices. 
"************************* 
~·For NO Students, Faculty & Staff ! *·1 0 percentIdiscount with I D & * ! pur·chase of $10 or more. ! 
************************~ 
A Good Place IQ Be! When? Tomorrow (and every Fri) A chance to be with good people for Mass and informal supper. Everyone welcome -Mass at 5:15 TOMORROW! 
the observer Thui'ICMY, Octaber 30, 1975 
Reactions mixed on new graduate policy 
(continued from page 1) Prof. Donald Barrett, director of the undergraduate program, said he is aware of such possibilities, but has a "generally favorable 
orientation  towards  the  new  
program."  
If the  new  graduate  program  

reslts in a shortage of faculty on the undergraduate level, Barrett stated "We'll comb the country for additional faculty. If we need more faculty and we don't get it, I may turn right around and reject the new system.'' 
"It could be a problem," he admitted, "but the solution is provided for," Barrett said. 
Increased teaching load 

Another departmental change connected with the restructuring of the graduate program concerns and credit. 
At a departmental meeting held Sept. 18, the faculty approved by a \'ote of 10-7 a "Departmental Policy Relating to Teaching loa~s and Credits" which sets the basiC teaching load for a professor at 12 hours or 4 credits per week. 
The policy also outlines criteria for reductions in the basic teaching load, according to the professor's involvement in research, professional • activities and the graduate program. 
"It may be advantageous to some faculty members who define teaching at their primary professional activity to opt for a 12­hour teaching load," the policy st­ated, "allowing them to give full 
"provided the chairman has some factors. '_'Research that does not 
positive showing of schola~ly resu~t .m , some form. of 
activity over and above that which r,ubhc.ahon, ~e explamed, 
is normally expected for out-contnbute~ noth.mg to the ad-
standing teachers." vance .of, science If no one knows 
Examples of such "positive about It. . .. showing," according to the policy Sec.ondly • he contmued, we t~y departmental or University ser-to stm~~late our facult~ to gamvice. extraordinary professional recogmtlon so that their names 
activities , and engagement in will carry influence when they what might be considered un-write graduate recom­
funded research." mendations."
Both Despres and Barrett stated 

A minimum definition of this last that the direction of dissertations 
item, the policy states, would be the publication or acceptance for publication of three articles over a 
period of two or three years. 
Don't consider research 

A number of faculty members voiced concern that this definition of a minimum standard does not t­ake into account other forms of legitimate research, i.e. books, papers prepared for professional 
meetings  and  direction  of  
dissertations.  
Despres  indicated  that  the  

minimum standard is "only a guidelines." Ifa professor writes a book, for example, "he is well over the minimum requirement. The three years are taken as a period," Despres stated, "so that a professor who spends two years in 
is a normal part of graduate t­eaching and should not constitute research of itself. 
"Publications should follow naturally from the direction of dissertations," Barrett stated. "The faculty member accepts the direction of a grad student working in his area of interest and progresses in his own personal
growth and development. The dissertation is not an end in itself," he said. 
"Every graduate department across the country expects that kind of responsibility from its faculty," Despres stated. "It is in a sense the way scholars reproduce themselves. It depends on the nature of the professor's 
responsibility," he continued. "If a faculty member is directing five dissertations, that might call for a recution in course load." 

(continued from page 1) 
The Church would not be faithful to its pastoral task if it did not reach out to suffering people, the Cardinal declared. "The Church will need to give solace to people forced to live on the bitter fruits of injustice," he said and highlighted the title of the Bicentennial program "Liberty and Justice for All." 
Church as instrument of change 

Dearden said the major asset of the Church as an agent of social change is her pastoral presence in society. The Church lives with and ministers to people at every level oflife and in every area of the country. Moreover, the Cardinal stated, the Church lives in society is' the "vision of the kingdom" by which it measure the system and attempts to shape social life. 
The Bicentennial program is 

research and then publishes a Faculty who do not fulfill the
and total attention to teaching and legitimacy of teaching as a
1 minimum reqmrements tor
teaching preparation, while being number of articles is set for the recuction in course load will be scholarly ativity. relieved next three years. He does not have reviewed annually by the depart­"It will be assumed that careers to stagger his p~bli~ations over the ment chairman of the Graduate devoted more or less exclusviely to 
Otherwise, the policy states, a three year pen.od. . . Program Committee, according to teaching can be recognized (and~~~~~~onm~:b~fs ~!~ch~~gtai~oa~ The emp~asi~ on pubhcabon, the policy statement. They will rewarded) for at least one-third of 
the departmental faculty, the
Despres Sild, IS based on two then decide whether the professor 
Social action program outlined, 

cess," he said. 

The Church can be effective in social change, Dearden believes, because it is addressing the right issues at the right time. 
The issues are not abstract but are matters that are part of each human life, he said. "We are talking of food and housing, of violence and crime, of hate and estrangement, of poverty and loss, of loneliness and fear, of isolation and sickness, of suffering and death." 
These issues are wounds of the nation, the Cardinal exclaimed, calling them "a sad litany, and a frightening one." 
Many question the enormity of the undertaking and the ability of the Church to obtain results, he noted. However, the people of America expect the Church to remake society according to the ideals that she has expressed throughout America's history, 
he stated. 
"stagflation." The decade of reform begun by Vatican II has been absorbed and integrated into the lives of American Catholics, he stated. 

should carry a or hour policy states. . teaching load. 12 9 Presently, the policy notes, such 
Barrett noted that the new policy individuals tend to be evaluated by allows a faculty member three "criteria that applies more options: to devote himself properly to individualism who primarily to teacing, to devote teach as well as publish, or who himself primarily to research, or primary publish." t balance his endeavors in both The policy statement calls for 
a~eas. some rational policy relating 
Critics of the plan have argued t-recognition words (and in terms of hat it encourages research rather salaries and promotions) for than teaching by the fact that teaching as well as researchers 
. rapidly.
promotings and salary mcrements Despite some continued op­are generally based on recognition position to the new policy, Despres of research and not of teaching
excellence. 
emphasized that it was approved"As a faculty member in any by a majority of the faculty in the 
department," Despres agreed. department. ·"Teacher's don't get the Barrett stated that such opposit­promotions, the salary increases ion is characteristic of any untried and tenure." He feels the new plan. You just have to have con­policy alleviates this problem, fidence in your peers and in your however, by the recognizing the colleagues."
r,:::==::=:=:::::::=:::::====================il 
T•\ffi(jrrow Night is the Campus Wide 

HALLOWEEN DANCE 
Oct. 31 -STEPAN CENTER 9-1 $. 75 Dance to the Super Music of STRATUS 
epresentat1ve 
UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
to be on campus 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3 
Graduate study information -all fields of Letters, Arts& Sciences Special emphasis on Social Sciences 
Contact Placement Bureau 283 -6255 
"For American Catholics, the ::! 

­
two institutions which define their CULTURAL ARTS COMMISSION identity have both been in process of dramatic change for the last ten in conjunction with SMC & IUSB to fifteen years," the Cardinal ­
said. p,resents
Deardon stated that American ­Catholics are ready for a discussion of social issues and the 

BALLET REPERTORY 
role of the Church. "It is the right ­time to give people a chance to talk to each other and to talk to the TONIGHT 8 pmChurch," he said. 
The Archbishop of Detroit has 

O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM
high hopes for the outcome of th­ese talks. "An ordered, systematic and reflective discussion of where -$3.50 General Admission we have been and where we are going can make the Bicentennial -$2.00 Student & Faculty observance a truly creative moment for Church and society," he said. 
HAVE ATAILGATE PARTY BEFORE THE BIG GAME 
For an outstanding Tailgate Party ­take along a Bucket or a Barrel of "finger lickin' good"® chicken, potatoes and gravy, salad, hot rolls and dessert. 
I Even if you are not going to the game, it's a great day to "Visit the Colonel". 
~~~ 
~-~ ~~-"'-..... ~'\., 

CATERING FOR All OCCASIONS 
Kutuek11 fried Ckiekea® 
Western near Mayflower -52044 U.S. 31 N. near Brick Rd. 4207 S. Michigan -1640 South Bend Ave. 2612 LWW Mishawaka 


t • ._' ~ • •• ~ I ._ ' • ' ; 


Thursday, October 30, 1975 
the observer 

Patty Hearst friend charged with robbery 
Study finds 23 million illiterate: Celebrant: Fr. Edward Sellner ',
f Music Notre Dame 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. <AP) 
Steven Soliah, an ander­ground companion of Patricia Hearst. was indicted Wednes­
day  on  a  charge  of ·robbing  a  
bank  in  which  a  woman  cus­ 
tomer  was  killed.  Charges  that  
he  harbored  Miss  Hearst  were  
dropped.  

The 27-year-old housepainter, who shared the house where 1\liss Hearst was found and was r·eported to have been her lover. appeared in a San Fran­cisco federal court less than two hours after a grand jury 
here accused him of taking part in an April 21 holdup of a Crocker National Bank branch. The robbery netted four ski­masked robbers $15,000 and left 
a -t2-year-old mother of four shotgunned to death. 
Soliah sat silently at the de­fense table as Asst. U.S. Atty. David Bancroft asked U.S Dis­trict Court Judge William H. 



Students receive a 1 
(continued from page 1) both academics and financial need, McCauslin said. "I don't see merit scholarships in the future," she remarked. Financial need is determined largely through the Parent's Confidential Statement of the College Scholarship Service. "We call it a tool of the Financial Aid Office," McCauslin observed. ""We have to have some sort of uniform criteria." ROTC scholarships are funded by contributions from the Army, . Navy, and Air Force. These are not based on financial need, ac­cording to McCauslin. She pointed out that students who wish to receive financial assislsmce from sources outside 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Call­ing the results "surprising, per­haps even shocking," a govern­ment study reported Wednes­day that one out of every five American adults is functionally illiterate and unable to cope in today 's society. 
That means, the authors said, that 20 per cent or more than 23 million persons cannot read newspaper help-wanted ads, figure the best grocery buy or make a train reservation. 
Testing of some 10,000 adults aged 10 to 65 years of age dur­ing the last four years found that: 
-13 per cent or 15 million could not address an envelope properly for mailing. 
-58 per cent or 68.5 million 






REGAL 
LOUNGE & LANES 
BAND THIS WEEKEND
•

FRIDAY SATURDAY CONVERSION IN SOUND 
OPEN BOWLING THIS SAT. &SUN. AFTER 8:30 P.M. 
1121 WEST 8th ST.. -MISHAWAKA­
the University must "do things on their own., The one exception to this is aid from the Supplemental 
Educational Grant Program fo the federal government. Grants from this program are handled through the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships. 
However students who wish to 

receive fin~ncial aid throughout the the alloted. time are free. "If 
Basic Educational Opportunity Grant Program must deal directly with the government. 
Financial aid figures vary during the academic year as need for assistance arises, financial aid officials said. 
More than 60 per cent of the student body was receiving some type of scholarship or financial aid at the end of last semester. 
<.'ould not read a simle para­
graph explaining the law and tell why it would be illegal to be held in jail for two weeks wi.thout being charged with a 
crrme. 
-30 per cent or 35 million
could not select an airline flight at the proper time to make a meeting in a distant city. 
-:J3 per cent or 39 million could not determine which of two brands of aspirin was most effective after 25 minutes. 
-26 per cent or 30.7 million could not determine the best unit price among three sizes of cereal boxes. 
-20 per cent or 23.6 million could not explain correctly the meaning of equal opportunity Orrick Jr. to dismiss the har­boring charge. Bancroft noted that the bank robbery charge was far more grave, carrying a minimum penalty of 10 years in prison and a maximurn penalty of death. 
Orrick approved the request and Soliah. the first figure in the complex Hearst case to be <.'harged with a crime involving murder, was expected to be transferred here immediately. 
Miss Hearst. who lived with Soliah and professed her affec­tion for him after their capture, was not named in the in­dictment returned here, al­though she has been identified as having rented a garage for a ear used in the getaway. 
But U.S. Atty. Dwayne Keyes held out the possibility that ad­ditional charges might be filed by local prosecutors. 
KPyes said the Sacramento 

reason for the request. Any
•d reason, including "room color" is 
acceptable, Blais said. 
' "You may make a specific request as to the room that youwould like," Blais said. However, if the student has no particular room in mind, she should state the hall and the type of room she desires. For any room changes, "list the roommates that you would like in yournew room." Blais added.. Room changes requested durmg 
anyone. de~1des to change ro~ms after thrs trme, however, the~? Is_a $25 ~tandardroonrhange fee, sa1d Bla1s. 
Placements are made on the basis of ''first come, first serve," Blais said. No priority will be given to upperclassmen. 
Students will be notified by Nov. 11 whether they have received a room change or are on a waiting 
by Chapel Choir 

employer. f There will also be an All Saints ', 
The project was performed t Mass in Sacred Heart church at t by the University of Texas at 11:30 a.m. on Saturday. Check Austin under a $1 million con-t hall bulletin boards for times of t tract with the U.S. Office of t Mass in dorms. Education. A 
------------------' 

.••~.t b.L.:..••.
---rq_.. ·~ ~ 


HALLOWEEN PARTY 
TONIGHT 
2 BEST COSTUMES 
get $25 gift certificate at the General Store 
7-8  $.10 BEERS  
8-9  $.25 BEERS  
9-10  $.40 BEERS  

10:00 PM DUNKING FOR APPLES IN A VAT OF WINE 


DANCE CONTEST & PRIZES ALL NIGHT LONG 
County district attorney's office still is investigating the case and hopes to decide within 30 days whether it will bring addi­tional charges. 
U.S. District Court Judge Sherrill Halbert set bail on the bank robbery charge at $250,000. Soliah already is being 
For second semester 


Room changes discussed 
by 1\Iarti Hogan Staff Rl'porter 

Any St. Mary's student wishing to change her room or roommate for the second semester may register at the Housing Office from Tuesday, November 4 at noon until 5 pm Thursday, November 6, according to Nannette Blais, St. l\1ary's housing coordinator. 
Students must fill out a a "Room Change Request" form stating the held in San Francisco on $75,­000 bail. 
Keyes said the indictment is not meant to allege that Soliah actually pulled the trigger but added the judge should be allowed to consider imposition of the death penalty, despite a 
U.S. Supreme Court ruling op-
list. 
"There are no vacancies right now," Blais said. Any changes depend on vacancies made by other students requesting changes or leaving campus. 
Students who plan to transfer, graduate or move off campus after the first semester are asked to notify both the Office of Academic Affairs and the Housing Office by December 5. 
Students "who have signed 
yearly room agreements may not 
BOOK BARN 
is the 


BOOK SHOP 
for 
Turn ~orth 2 blocks e-ast of


BOOK LOVERS 
light at Cleveland and Jun em and new books (Emmons Rd.) Phone 272-5520 


Mon-Frl untn 9:00 
noon untU 6:00 
:-----;e~a~;;:;;:s------, 
tALL SAINTS-LITURGY: 
t 5:00 p.m. f f Friday, October 31st f f Sacred Heart Church t 
posing it in most cases. 
Asked what evidence was presented to the grand jury, Keyes said Soliah 's fingerprint was found on the license plate of a car at the robbery scene and added, "Mr. Soliah was positively identified as being in the bank." 

.. 
move off campus untrl other students have been admitted to residence to replace them," Blais said. These students will be notified by December 13. 
Blais also added, "Day students who would like to move on campus second semester may pick up forms before final exams." 
"All students given a room change, must move before leaving for Christmas Holiday," no one will be allowed to to move until December 13, according to Blais. 



.... 


'7ll BE THERE TIL MIONIGHl BABY. ..SATIJROAY TIL 9. COME ONIN ANO ROCI< YOIJR SOCI<S OFF!u 
o!tl'tBtst

lt~l'tt\\llti 
1\0Ul\S\ 
'thurstlaY 81 rrit\aY t\\1'\\tlnight... SaturtlaY ti\ 9 PM 

~.j,Jjj 
.\ 10-11 
·*: 
i KOSS PRO-IV AA 'Phones. One 
t of the finest stereo headphones you can buy offers ex­~ i!ii!HI"f'GQ. ceptional audiophile performance un­matched by virtually any speaker' 
Was $65 
$35
9-10 

ALTEC 886B Speaker Sale! A great 10" Two-Way Speaker System with a passive radiator for 
outstanding bass performance from Was S!Sg 95 a compact enclosure. 
7 1
$ 9 Priced to move 
g_g
~ 

* 
11-12 

TEAC A-160 Cassette Deck. A value-packed deck! Has switchable bias and EO for optimum tape 
performance. Dolby noise Was $259.50 reduction, auto-shut-oft. 
$199 
permallux head for long· 
lasting super performance. 
r1.c: 
') ) ') ...
.•••••• ) ••• "-j
----·· 
featuring Dolby noise-reduction. fast-forward. rewind. 
pause. headphone input, 'bias and eq. for optimum performance with any tape.  Was $299.95  
. .~  10-11  
,.  EPI Microtower I ••• ljz Price! An  
absolute MUST! A floor-standing speaker  
system that provides excellent  
reproduction. rock-solid bass  
and ultra-wide dispersion  
from anyplace you listen.  
GREAT BUY -while they last!  
Was $&9.95$2988  






'9-10 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 1200. LIMIT ONE PER CUSTOM­ER. 5-lunction. 8-digit porta.ble 
Beg. $16.95 calculator. Compact 
$1288 si,ze. ultra-reliability. ~o key. extremely readable LED display. 
a.. 
~ 
=r 
lCD 0 
c­
(/) 
CD
., 
< 
CD
., 
-t 
c ~ 
., 
Ill 
Q. 
AI 
~ 
... ~ 
0 CT 
Ill
., 
~ 
.... 
-o 
......
11-12 "' w 
PIONEER CT-Ftillil Cassette. A best-buy in a front-loading cassette deck 
$199f 
.......... )).).).). 
Was $429.95$2 88.1 
Total Compact System! Stereo FM/ AM System with built-in 8 tr_ack ta~e play~!:; Creal 

SANSUI771 $1 1:! Off~ A value­packed unit. next best to the magnificent 881! Stereo fM!AM Receiver with ultra-low distortion power, state-of-the-art performance' 
7-8 
Stereo HeadphonesJust Two Bucks! 
Designed for comfort. engineered lor ultra-wide range performance. Limit one per customer! 

DUAL 1229-Q. As fine a Changer as you can find. Reg. $269 
$149
w/purchase of base, d. cover 
& cartridge 
7-8 

Auto FM Converter. Now you can add excellent FM performance to your existing AM car radio at an unbelieveable Playback price. 
Reg. $27.95 SJ088 
Separately $378.00 





SJ89 
Good thru Sunday 
PIONEER SX-636 Super System-SAVE $230! 
•
,J 

CHARGE IT! PLAYBACK-ARRANGED FINANCING MASTER CHARGE • BANKAMERICARD 
AMERICAN EXPRESS 
Brillianl 1/2-PRICE Stereo System! 
Featuring the all-new Kingsway 800-SR Stereo FM/AM Receiver with all the performance and versatility you'll ever need! Precision BSR 2260 Changer Package complete with base, dust cover and cartridqe! And 
for rich, smooth, wide­range reproduction a pair of Amerek 8" Speaker Systems. Easy on your budget as well as your ears! 
Combines the SX-636, Pioneer's most 

popular Stereo FM/AM Receiver ... loaded with performance, features and versatility ... with a great BSR 2260 Changer Package 
including base, dust cover 
Separately $629.95 and cartridge plus two outstanding JF-lOA 10" 2-Way Bookshelf Speaker Systems for sound quality
S:J99 
that rivals other units Good lhru Sunday costing much more! 
SALE ENDS _SUNDAY, NOV. 2nd 817 W. McKINLEY 
MISHAWAKA, (COLLEGE SQUARE) rhe eedronic poyground@
PHONE 256-1514 FIRST COME, FIRST SERVE -QUANTITIES LIMITED A Qu;1l1ty Company of HyrlronwtJis ~~,·~ 
1975 Pl.1yr)nck Inc 
23-Ch. CB Transceiver. features 23 crystal controlled channels with crystals included. Loaded with 
features. 
Was $129.95 soo 

Deluxe AM/ FM Stereo 8-Tr In-Dash. Com­plete stereo entertainment center offers custom appearance, superior performance and more! Super­

priced! 

Portable Cassette. AC DC portable recorder. Built-in mike. auto $ 88 
shut-oH. 3-digit tape 
2~ 
• counter. 
"Mini" Auto B·Track. Full 
feature player deck for your car. Slide volume. balance and lone control~. IC circuitry for low $Jft88 
d1stort1on performance. y 
PROJECT/one MKII Receiver. The receiver 
-...._;j_!_.~.w.t' U.. ...!..•~•......
) ~'
value of the year! Has total 
control capability. plus performance of receivers I It • ..., twice the 
• 
regular price. SJ40 
A hi-li must' Reg. $299.95 
' 
BSR Total Package. Precision changer. complete with Base. Dust Cover plus magnetir 
Cartridge. (Shown without dust cover.) saa 
R.eg.$159 "Mini'"
Print Calcula­
Cassette. BE.IlRC.IlT 4-Band.tor. Stereo cas­4-Band scanning
gives you a multi· 
selle player monitor: emergency
function print cal-. 
for your car. and publicculator that fits in Fits any­safety. Ifthe palm of your 
where; fast it's on the
hand. 

forward. air. the
Was $149.95 
more. Bearcal IV lets you hear it!
SJOO S2J88 
Beg. $179
~ 

s .... ..., 
/ . . 
\+n·+·~­
• ---·~"..1"'0{
~
6-,--~~ 
-
--__.. 
List $84.95 
$70 
Good thru Sunday 
Reg. $69.95 


$4988 
Good lhru Sunday 
SKAHDA FM Stereo 8-Track Under-Dash. Nothing in its price class comes even close to this superb :unit! Sliding controls! Installs easily! 
-1
,. 
c.., 
Ill Q. Ql 
'< 
' 
0 
n 
c 
CT 
ID
.., 
w 
p 
.... 
-o 
..... 
U'l 
-'::J 
CD 
C"' 
fJ) 
CD
.., 
< 
CD
.., 
"" 
..---""""";'"·_, . 

8 
the observer 



The Observer 
an independent student newspaper Founded Novem~r 3, 1966 
Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief Tom Modglin Business Manager Tom Whelan Advertising Manager 

EDITORIAL BOARD AI Rutht>rford, Managing Editor; Jim Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor; Kt'n Girouard, Nl"wS Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; Ken Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; Tom O'Neil, Ft>atures Editor; 
Chris Smith, Photo Editor 
-1 

Editoro .. Is 28}-866 I N~ws 2~~}~1~7~15~------~B~u'='"~~~n~l=8~l~74~7~1-----------­
Thursday, October 30, 1975 
.'· 
.'.... 
.. 
,. 
·.-•.· 
.:' : 

"I don't need October break... I don't need October break... " 



Give Us 
This year's academic calendar is one that no one wanted, one that no one likes and one that must be changed. Everyone wants more days ·off. But unless the st­udents can unite behind a coordinated plan of action, they can expect only a repetition of the fruitless battles and administration trickery of previous years. 
One year ago today we were on October break. Now we are slogging through mi­dterms and many people are not sure they will make it through a semester relieved by only one four-day break. It is apparent by now that both students and faculty need more of a rest than the short Thanksgiving break gives. Dr. John Duggan, president of St. Mary's, recognized this quickly and gave St. Mary's students a special three-day weekend. Even Fr. Burtchaell, who has consistently opposed the students' views, favors a longer rest. 
There are, of course, several differ·tmt possibilities as to how that rest can be arranged, but if the students wish to have any success in the next round they are 
going to have to reach a consensus on a 
DOONESBURY 

a Break! 
feasible alternative to the present calendar. 
Student government, particularly . Academic Commissioner Mike Gassman, bears the special responsibility to determine and focus student opinion and to lead the fight in the Academic Council. Gassman has begun the battle with needed research and we urge him to push ahead strangly. 
Since March, 1972 at least five rounds have been fought over the fall calendar. Each has taken the form of Provost vs. Student Body. Last year the students momentarily thought they had achieved their goals only to discover that by a brilliant display of political cunning the "extended" break would last only four days. Fr. Burtchaell maintains he is only interested in fulfilling certain "object­ive" criteria but it has become clear that he has made the fight a point of personal prestige, as if he is determined to show the students who is boss. 
It is unfortunate but probable that this round, ·uke th last, will be another case of "us vs. them." And the students had best be ready. 
. .......... .. 
' I 

Abortion and Women's Lib 
joe corpora 

by Garry Trudeau the observer 
Abortion exploits women. After centuries and centuries of being treated as objects, women are being presented the final mechanical insult as a constitutional right. The strange com­pulsion for abortion is in reality the ultimate exploitation of women by immature men: technocrats, generally, imbued with a myopic sense of social awareness and unable to interpret or control their own sexuality. 
NOW (National Organization for Women), has been in the forefront screaming and pleading for abortion as a woman's right. This organization has also been quite vocal in favor of the pill and the IUD. They claim that women have the right to control their bodies. First off, I was unaware that they are out of control. Secondly, women who advocate abortion, the pill, the IUD, as a means of controlling their bodies would do well to acknowledge that it is men who are making millions of dollars performing abortions. It is men who are making more millions of dollars dispensing the pill or inserting the IUD. 
Thus men are making millions of dollars on women trying to control their bodies. It is the woman who has been deliberately misled by the male-dominated medical profession into thinking that abortion is just a simple operation. The serious physical and psychic consequences of this self-serving deception are muted despite a wealth of medical literature from the United States and foreign countries. 
Women, in the name of liberation, use pills, drugs, plugs or ex­
tractors to control (?)their bodies. Who is liberated? Abortion, the 
pill, the IUD, all have done more for men than women could have 
ever dreamed possible. They have and continue to exploit women. 
Abortion the pill, the IUD have liberated man, freeing him from 
any responsibility for his actions. 
Some women do believe, however, that abortion has liberated 
them. I cannot agree with this statement. I have just shown how 
abortion has liberated men more than women. I also spoke with 
Pat Goltz, the president of Feminists for Life. Pat was a member 
of NOW but was kicked out because of her pro-life stance. Mrs. 
Goltz says that women who have chosen abortion as an alternative 
to giving birth, turn very bitter at pro-life people. They become 
angry with themselves. She has seen women, totally unprovoked, 
manifest a real hate for pro-life people. The pro-abortion feminist 
has everything inside her and vents all her feelings on the nearest 
pro-life person. When someone is living with anger in them they 
are totally turned off to the Spirit. She desensitizes herself and as a 
result loses feeling for her fellow man. This is certainly not any 
type of liberation. 
Women are responsible, adult human beings, and should be 
j
treated as such and should behave as such. Feminists for Life have 
no quarrel with men. 'i'hey do have a problem however with some .I 
overgrown male infants who think of women as soft toys. Women 
are dangerous playthings likely to cause a condition known as 
fatherhood. While this is a highly satisfying state for mature men, 
it is extremely distressing to mama's boys and playboys. 
As a result of women's liberation (?) bunnies can now be ren­dered fool-proof. Should pills, chemicals, loops and harpoons fail, man can work over woman with a vaccuum cleaner, a curved knife, salt poisoning or major surgery. Her, Not him! Liberation? For whom? It is she who is taking thee pill or carrying the IUD or, going to the hospital for the abortion. Think about this seriously for a minute. Who is really liberated? 
Women's Liberationists who believe in abortion as a woman's right would do well to realize that since roughly 50 percent of the unborn are baby girls, half the abortions kill their sisters. It is inconsistent to demand rights for themselves and then to deny them to their offspring. Unborn women have rights also. 
No woman should be ashamedof her brains; starving, stunting or mutilating them to bolster the vanity of an insecure male. Neither should she mutilate her body to satisfy his lust, for the right to be a whole human being includes the right to one's full sexuality. A woman must not be ashamed of her body because it is constructed so as to make her a mother. This is not some unfortunate ab­normality in women, but a priceless gift inseparable from her humanity and personality. 
In this International Women's Year, women must seek their true ideatity. Women cannot deny that they are the givers, the nur­turers, the protectors of life. Women are the given creators of a nation's strength, for no nation can rise higher than the women who are found within it. 
Women must deny violence a legitimate place in our society by 
rejecting the first violence --abortion. The women of this society 
must say to overgrown male infants that the game is over. You can 
no longer exploit our bodies either in your centerfold or in your 'hospitals. 
*' 

·, I THINKNIGIITTIM& II/A5 7J.IEIIKJIIST­OYW. ANP MR I TlJf(N&I) SOFTlY yO(J
IN MY Stf£PANP CAL.LEP IIER. NAM& ... I re/.TeMPTY, HlJ1<T; 
CEI<TAINL.Y COVE/?e{) 

PAP, UI#&N 
&XACri,Y rfRY All)!€. THAT's IV!{E/V 
AN() 7H8N, LATE:!< ON, SO VMY, 
PIPMOM A LOT OF I TtJRNW 7D >tl/•.. 
SPUT"? GI<{)(JNP. I I
l " 
l ) 
) 

Nght Editor:  Val Zurblis  
Asst.  Night  Editor:  Jim  
Stevens  
Layout Staff:  Gail Delasho,  

Bob Piller, John Calcutt, Jim Commyn 
Day Editor: Mary Reher Copy Reader: Don Reimer 
Editorials: Ken Girouard 
Features: Martha Fanning Sports: Fred Herbst Typists: Terri Harlan, Mary Tobin, Howard Halle, K. Hinks Compugraphic: Carolina Night Controller: Dave Rust Ad Layout: Joe Graif, M.D. 


l
I 

lbooksl 
your best companion to sports and games 
Some day you may be sitting around in your room playing sports trivia with some of your buddies, and one of them might ask you who Citation's grandfather was. If you happened to have glanced at your copy of The Oxford Companion to World Sports & Games a little earlier, you'll astound your friends by rattling off the correct answer, HvnPrion. 
Edited by John Arlott, an E.11glish cricket correspondent, this 1143 page sports encyclopedia offers every available piece of information on nearly every (and you would be hard pressed to find omissions) sport or game under the stars. Just think of everything you'd like to know about any sport you know of, then multiply 
it by ten, and it's alt within these covers. In fact, you can then go on to bl.ow everyone else out of the room by posmg such puuzlers as the Astrodomes in~ide diameter, in meters! (195), or the wetght of a competition javelin, in grams (800). Pretty soon your friends will either go out and buy their own copy of the Co~n~ani~n, or else they just won't play tnvta w1th you anymore. · The book is set up in encyclopedia style, proceeding alphabetically (as a gauge, the D section begins on page 250). It offers information on : --personalities: Muhammed Ali, Jack Nicklaus, Glen Davis cfirst man to win the Olympic 400 meter hurdles twice). -institutions: University of Notre Dame-­"the Fighting Irish have probably the most glamorous name in American college sports." USC--"they have had intensive rivalries with their intersectional foe, Notre Dame." --sports and games: It is this last section which the book concentrates on, offering the most detailed 
Somewhere between J.D. Salinger and James T. Farrell is John R. Powers, author of Thl' Last Catholic in America. He stands between them representing a literary genre, producing autobiographically-based ficton which details the maturing of an adolescent male in an alienating, naturalistic inviroment. The protagonists are represented very much the same by all three authors, and where Holden Caufield resembles Studs Lonigan, the character of Eddie Ryan emerges, the protagonist of Do Black Patent Lt'ather Shoes Really Reflect Up? 
From the title ofPowers' latest work can be determined the nature of his story. Powers attempts to become the Philip Roth of Roman Catholicism by .satirizing the Catholic Elementary-school up­bringing. He takes his material one step further here, however, and gives us this synthetic character ( who is also the narrator) emerging from his elementary education (detailed in The Last Catholic in 
Amt>rica )) and shows us (subjectively) his odyssey through adolescence. . 
But Eddie Ryan has some problems: one of them being his trouble coping with the Catholic didacticism of his up-bringing: 
Tht' vast majority of Catholic high schools 
in the Chicago area were not 
cot'ducational. The Church hierarchy 
probably felt that both sexes could con­
centrate bt>tter on their school work if the 
othl'•· sex wasn't around. Most likely the 
Church would try to get your mind off food 
by starving you to dt>ath. . 
nd as is witnessed by this passage, he IS skittles. It's intention is ''to help the reader understand a sport when he wat-· ches it for the first time", and though some of the passages get bogged down in the complex description of rules and equip­ment <it is much easier to learn about a field goal by watching than by describing it in words), the descriptions are so complete that one inevitably gains from reading them. 

Sports and games are usually introduced with an explanation of the object, method and rules of each sport. A history of the evolu~ion of the sport is then given. In major sports such as football <to which 80 pages is devoted, the most on any sport) the history is extensive. The Eton Wall Game, an early form of football played at Eton school in England and where an Elm tree was used as a goal, is just one of the types described in the evolution of the game. The volume traces basketball's roots to the Yucatan peninsula where a game called pok-tapok was played before stone statures of Gods (primitive 
television sponsors, no doubt). The sport 
is then updated to present times, and this 

less than sympathetic with the Catholic 
Church. Thus the title. It is derived from 
the myth as taught traditionally by the 
nuns in Catholic schools that girls who 
wear black patent leather shoes are 
virtually "exposing" themselves to the 
boys around them. The reflection off the 
shoes of a young lady's vaginal area 
(although cloaked in underwear and · darkness) might virtually court and insure her rape. 
Yet Powers has a point, and one we are 
certainly forced to agree with: that our 
outlook of the world, of good, evil, life and 
love, was perversely distorted by those 
Catholic mentors of our childhood. But 
who, having gone through twelve years of 

their influence, has not thought of this 
before, and has not been outraged by it? 
Powers almost believes he is granting us 
this insight and wishes that we laugh with 
him at his juvenile descriptions. The 
response, however, is not one of genuine 
laughter. His comic attempts are cheap 
ones, and represent the primary purpose 
for this "literary" effort. 

Through the invention of Holden Caufield, Salinger once gave us what Powers is attempting to re-create here: the sensitive and sometimes comic ub­servations of a maturing young male, and even in i.onigan the character of Studs twho, like Ryan, is also the product of Catholic education, Irish parentage, and Chicago's South side) is more professionally and genuinely rendered. Powers fails at sophisticated literary style and form. He succeeds instead with providing his audience with a hastily­written and commercial novel they can read at their leisure without the ex­pectation of literary craftsmanship, and­without much thought given to the sin­cerity of either the author or his character. 
Do Black Patent Leather Shoes Really Ht'flect Up? is still, however, a somewhat enjoyable work of light reading. For those of us who were the products of Catholic education, we can occaisionally laugh at the unfolding absurdities in the life of Eddie Ryan. Or we can chuckle, at least, if we cannot laugh. 
DO BLACK PATENT LEATHER SHOES HEALLY REFLECT UP? a fictionalized mf'moir by John R. Powers, Henry Regnt>ry Co. $7.95 
Thursday, October 30, 1975 

mcludes intert:..,ting information on 
sidelights of the sport, such as merges, 
farm systems and youth leagues. 
The volume is clearly an exellent sports research source. It affords information In nearly everything one might desire, and then some. It allows for satisfying one's curiosity or enhancing one's quest for the hizzare. Where else can yoo read about Kabbadi, an Indian game where players must raid the other team, and repeat the word "Kabbadi" without taking a breath until the raid is over? The book is not limited to modern sports either, or only ones that are still · played . It includes a section on themedievai practice of jousting, including the ritual of the knight wearing his lady love's glove.
The Companion reads little better than an encyclopedia, but you don't open it up with the hope of finding enchanting verse. 

\exhibition! 
indiana artist working in taos 
"Victor Higgins: An Indiana Artist 
wm!ring in Taos, New Mexico", the recenu.>· opened exhibition in the Notre Dame Art Gallery, has already excited I more interest and COmment than any Other .in recent memory. Judging by the :reputation Indiana artists enjoy in some local circles, the quality of this show is apt 
to prove a surprise. 
Higgins was born in 1884, in Shelbyville, 
Indiana and educated in Chicago, but in 
1914 he took up residence in Taos, New Mexico, and remained there until his death in 1949. Though its fame as an art center has diminished with the years, in 1920 Taos was a got-bed of intellectual activity, attracting such people as D.H. Lawrence a"'nd John Marin. Into this, Higgins brought a set of skills polished by years of s.tudy in The Art Insititute of Chacago and in Europe. 
Several artists of varying degrees of 
proficiency preceded him; many more 
were to follow. But none, not even Higgins, 
until now achieved a lasting reputation 
outside the Southwest. The reasons for 
this are several. The first is simply the 
distance which Taos is from New York, 
America's traditional art center. Added to 
this is the distrust New York still has for 
Art produced outside of its own circles, a 
distrust amounting at times to bias. But 
the Taos artists themselves share part of 
the blame for this lack oflastingattention. 
In painting an area of such gradeur and 
magnificence as the New Mexican land­
scape, there is a tendency for the painter 
to let Nature do the work for him or he. 
The tendency is to paint masterful sub­
jects later than to do masterful painting. 
In addition, many of the Southwestern 
painters worked with Indian subjects and 
models, and became caught up in the 
"romantic illustration"-style that 
characterizes so many artists who 
attempted to capture "the noble red man" 
or "the dying West" on canvas. It is a 
smooth, professional style, but does not 
make for great art. 
Victor Higgins himself narrowly missed 
falling into this trap. Like the other artists 
in Taos a at the time, Higgins during his 
early period worked almost exclusively 
with Indian subjects. And in some pieces 
he came close to doing the "pretty sort of 
paintings that the critics rejected so 
strongly. But inothers,Higgins was doing 
something with the Indianalmostunique at 
the time. He took away the artificial 
'noble' characteristics, and showed the 
Indian as a human being in isolation. 
"Fiesta Day", a large painting of an In­
dian on horseback, is particularly 
illustrative of this. 
the observer 
9 

It is the type of book you will open up to glance through or look up one bit of in­formation, and most likely you weill find vourself leafing through it a will deal ionger then you planned. It's awesome presentation of sports facts and its equally amazing variety and uniqueness make it more than worthwhile. .. 
If the price tag scares you, remember that this book is one that could and should last you the rest of your life, a handy reference with little to be desired. 
If you love sports, you'lllove having this \'olume around, and if your interest is only passing, the Oxford Companion to World Sptll'ls and Games might make it more than that. 
TilE OXFORD COMPANION TO WORLD SPORTS & GAMES, edited by John Arlott, Oxford llniversity Press, $29.95. 
Still, Higgins' escape from Southwestern romanticism was a narrow one. His talent as a painter was simply too great for him to fall into formuae. It was his later development, however, that ensures him a place in American Art history. An example of the new direction he was beginning to explore is ''Circumverences'' ~ a semiabstract piece and probably an allegory of World War I. 
But the real developments came as 
Higgins  turned  more  and  more  to  the  
landscape for inspiration.  Gradually, as  
in  paintings  like  "Taos  Pueblo",  the  

figures grow smaller, receding into the background until they become only another element of it. Finally, the land­scape takes over completely. 
It was at this point, too, that Higgins turned to watercolors for a more spon­taneous form of expression. His water­colors are quite possibly as fine as any ever produced in the Americas, including those of John Marin. "The Apple Or­chard" and "Arroyo Hondo" are lan­descapes of exuberant spirit and color, and impressive achievement for an artist anywhere. 
But these are merely the foundation for the final series of which Higgins executed, a group of small oils entitled "The Little Gems , a number of which appear in the exhibition. There is no doubt that these rank with the finest landscape art ever done. They are oils done in quick, con­tinous brushstrokes, carrying into the oil much of the spontaneity of watercolor. Theyare captivating pieces, enough to assure Higgins' position even if ,he had done nothing else. 
This one-man show is evidence of the new wave of interest that is now sweeping the country in the pioneer Taos painters. These wen men who, whatever else were attempting to found an indigenous form of American Art. It is now being discovered that they were perhaps closer to the mainstream of artistic development than has ever been imagined. And Higgins, clearly, is head and shoulders about the rest of the Taos group. 
In any age of time, Higgins would have been an outstanding painter, he was that good. But the fact that he chose to work in the Southwest has obscured him until now. The Notre Dame show, open inthe O'Shaughnessy Hall Gallery until 21 December, contains some bad work. But this serves only to underscore the quantity of excellent painting that Higgins did in his life. In many respects, including lay-out and design, the "Victor Higgins" retrospective deserves to be classed with the best the Notre Dame Art Gallery has ever presented. 

-
.. . 

1 0 the observer Thursday, October 30, 1975 
Killer elephant dies of old age 
BROOKFIELD, Ill. <AP) ­
Ziggy, a 612-ton bull elephant 
who spent 30 years in solitary 
confinement as an alleged kill­
er before being bailed out by a 
childrens' fund-raising cam­
paign, died of old age Monday 
night at his Brookfield Zoo 
home. 
One of the largest pach­
yderms in captivity, Ziggy died 
peacefully at an estimated age 
of 58, comparable to nearly 100 
years in human life. 
The much maligned Ziggy be­
came the most publicized ele-

Pay now. 
b~· Da\'e Gill Staff Reporter 

Students planning to fly home for 
the Christmas holidays should 
make their reservations as soon as 
possible. according to a 
representative of the First Bank 
and Trust Travel Department. This agency handles most of the 
bookings for the major airlines in 
the Notre Dame community. 
Prices for the air travel hiwe not risen noticeably since last fall. Th€ majpr changes have occured in short flights where rates have risen two or three dollars, and longer flights where prices have dropped up to $15. 
Round trip coach air fares for major cities are: New York, $135.47; Boston, $151.47; Atlanta, $131.47; Cleveland, $68.13; St. Louis, $87.47; Dallas, $167.47; and Los Angeles, $285.47. 
A new flight plan called bicentennial fares, is being offered by the major airlines in honor of 
· The performance, in French, is co-sponsored by the Depart­mentsof Modern Languages of the 
University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. 
It provides histrionics and high action along the way before the ult­mate destruction of the poor prince and the tortured <though beautiful) Phe'dre. 
Le Treteau de Paris <the name literally means "the touring boards". a reference to the makeshift stages that medival actors set up to present their plays l is a troupe of seasoned French . actors that each year crosses the United States and Canada presenting the best in 
"· 
French drama from the classic to ,( the contemporary. ' This fall's production marks the ., Company's 18th year and 22nd American Tour. 
,,· The Company's tour serves a dual purpose, according to its directors. It first acquaints non-French speaking Americans with the world of French drama, through the immediiacy of liveproduction 



r-· THE 
RESUME PLACE 

25 RAG BOND 

Only $2.55 

... 


insty-prints ~ 

' 
phant since Jumbo of circus Ziggy was brought to the fame, mainly because of his United States from India as a reputation as a killer. That rep-calf and was named after show­utation later was refuted by the man Flo Ziegfeld who bought man he tried to trample. the elephant for his 12-year-old 
In 1941, Ziggy charged his daughter 
trainer, George Lewis, now re­
tired and living in Seattle. 
Lewis escaped with minor in­
juries. 
After that Ziggy -who 

toured with a circus and joined 
the San Diego Zoo before com­
ing to Brookfield Zoo -was 
shackled and confined for near 
30 years in a special cell. 

fly later 

the nation's 200th birthday. 
There are two stipulations. First, the rider must remain at his or her destination from seven to thirty days, and second, the flight must cover 750 or more air miles 
one way. 
If these regulatons are met, t­here is a 25 percent discount given on the round trip ticket . 
There is also an Amtrak running from Chicago to Boston every day, which started Tuesday morning, Oct. 28th. The major cities through which the train runs are Chicago, South Bend, Toledo, Cleveland, Buffalo, Syracuse, Albany, New York and Boston. 
With the ride originating from South Bend, the round trip rates range from $4.75 to Chicago, to $101 for the run to Boston. 
Amtrak started this route to improve service to all cities, in­eluding Chicago,which hadonly the South Shore service, and Cleveland, which had no passenger trains running. 

Phedre to be performed 
Le Treteau de Paris will present Tickets for the production are their production of Racine's available from the ticket office of Phedre in O'Laughlin auditorium, Saint Mary's College. General Saint l\lary's College, on Nov. 2 at 2 Admission is $3.00. Student tickets 
p.m. are $2.00. For more information 
In 1970, when Ziggy was tak­en for his first walk since his 1941 incarceration, Lewis was among those coaxing the ele­phant into the open with ba­nanas. 
A 50-feet chain restrained Ziggy as the huge elephant lumbered down a backdoor ramp. He was outside for an hour and a half, squinting at the sunlight. Lewis said at the time that Ziggy "remembered me, first by his sense of smell, then gradually by sight." 
Lewis said Ziggy had at­tacked him "because Asiatic bull elephants go temporarily insane during the mating sea­son and I didn't realize at the 

Lectures next week 
Dr. Donald P. Kommers, 
professor of government and int­
ernational studies and director of 
the University of Notre Dame's 
Center for Civil Rights, is coauthor 
of a new edition of "The Gover­
nments of Germany." 
The book was first published by the Crowell Company in 1961 and has been revised by Kommers and Arnold J. Heidenheimer of Washington University in response to ahighlevel of continuing interest in German politics. 
The increasing importanceof the comparative approach in education, rather than the narrow focus on a single government or program, is reflected in the bok, one of a series released by the publisher. 
Areas of special concern for 
Kommers inthe book include the 
molding of modern Germany, 
society and economy in east and 
west Germany, elections and 
\'Oting behavior, judicial politics, 
politics in the German Democratic 
Republic, and a resolution of the time that the elephant was in that state." 
A Ziggy Fund, sponsored by the Chicago Zoological Society, raised enough money to build him a secure compound. Ziggy finally got his independence on July 4, 1973, to wander un­shackled while hundreds of children cheered. 
Once they tried to introduce Ziggy to Widget, a 17-year-old female, but he got into a trunk­pulling fight with her through the bars. 
Then on Christmas 1972 he got a girl friend as a present. Minnie was 12 years younger, three tons lighter, and at eight feet tall at the shoulder, two 
feet shorter. It turned out to be a platonicfriendship. 
Ziggy never was quite the same since he stretched too far across the 10-foot moat sur­rounding his compound last March and fell into it head first. Workers made a ramp with 42 tons of gravel so the elephant could extricate himelf. 
Ziggy stood in the moat all night long watching the work­ers. He ate only a little fruit instead of his usual diet of 400 pounds of hay. 
Then he slowly walked up the 
ramp.  His  left  tusk  was  
smashed  and  his  faced  was  
_skinned.  


1 MONTY PYTHON AND 
THE HOLY GRAIL 
MON.-FRI. 7:45 and 9:45 SAT.&SUN.-2:30,4:15 4:15, 6:00, 7:45,9:45 



HOMECOMING 
MON.-THURS. 7:15 & 9:30 SAT.&SUN. 2:15, 4:30, 7:15, 9:30 
lj()iler-tl()u~e r=lix 
TWIN THEA'TRES-100 CENTER-MISHAWAKA-255-9575 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31st 
HALLOWEEN SPECIAL 

''$.01 BEER'' 
FROM 7 P.M.  TO  9 P.M.  
FROM 9-11 P.M.  $.10 DRAFT  
FROM 11-1 A.M.  $.20 DRAFT  

(WE WILL NOT MAKE CHANGE SO BRING PLENTY OF PENNIES) ENTERTAINMENT NIGHTLY 
RIVER BEND PUB 
441 E. LA SALLE AT NILES AVE.

Come You Fightin' Irish 
TO TOWN & COUNTRY FOR YOUR FAVORITE 
WINES-LIQUORS 
Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM 
LIQUOR • WINE 
10% DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC I.D. 
BEER· BEST PRICE IN TOWN VOLUME DISCOUNT FREE DELIVERY 
TWO  FREE  
LOCATIONS  DELIVERY  
Bock  

. 
av 
Ber
2Q3~ _N. MAit'J SO.BEND, IND 
. ' 
Town &Country Shopping Center 289-6977 Phone 259-3262 

. ' 
-.--~-.--------------~--~-------------------------------------------------------------------·------· 
I Thursday, October 30, 1975 the observer 1 1 
Tutors needed for Viet ref~gees .. 
by Sue Carey "It can be as simple as taking Catholic Charities in South Bend cold weather." who was a doctor in Vietnam to Staff Reporter someone for a walk pointing out is also asking for donations for Jackowski added that many of come here ami have to take a job street signs. It doesn't require any clothing, household items and the refugees had never heard of washing dishes," Jackowski 
St. Mary's Campus Ministry is particular skills or experience, money. One of the most pressing central heating until they came to commented. ··M.ost of them had calling for Notre Dame and St. just common sense," Jackowski needs right now is for winter the United States. fairly stable jobs and lifestyles Mary's students to tutor South noted. clothing. Catholic Charities is organizing until now." Vietnamese refugees in English Some of the refugees are at-"These neople are half excited, job placement for the Vietnamese, At present, there are about 25 for one hour each week. tending the Adult Education half afraid of the coming winter," many of whom were professionals refugee families in the South Bend 
Accordil)g to Sr. Karol Center in South Bend or a junior Jackowski said. "They are looking or skilled workers in their own area, most of them having arrived Jackowsk,iof the Campus Ministry college in the area, but most need forward to seeing snow for the first country. during the past summer. Another Office, th'e tutoring is very basic. tutors to learn English. time, but they are also afraid of "It's pretty hard for someone 10 to 15 families are expected here 
within the next month.

Aid to public services Each of the Vietnamese families is sponsored by an American­family which helps them in ob­taining food, clothing, and housing 
Ford to veto NYC default legislation 
and in finding work. WASHINGTON <AP) -Pres­Ford proposed legislation ment, "unwanted and aban-provide federal aid to maintain "I would say they are getting ident Ford declared today he which would empower federal doned by its real parents." public services. along really well for the most part, 
will veto any legislation aimed courts "to preside over an or­although learning English is their at a federal bailout of New derly reorganization of New. most limiting factor," Jackowski York City, but pledged govern­York City's financial affairs -said. 
ment help to maintain police should that become necessary." Some of the refugees lost touch and fire protection if the city with other familymembers during 
defaults on its debts. the evacuation process. Jackowski described a case in which two brothers became separated from
House kills bill their parents after leaving Vietnar11. "Somehow in the process of fleeing the country,
to raise ceiling wires were crossed and the family was separated," she explained. 
Anyone who wishes to make a donation or join the tutoring program should contact SMC Campus Ministry at 4069. The office is located on the ground floor of McCandless Hall. 

WANTED 
Need 3 Pitt tix's. Call 3332 or 3334. 
NAVAHO INDIAN GIRL PRINT. 10" x 12", in green and brown frame. Stolen last week from Legal Aid Office in Law School. Sentimental value to owner. Please return to Law SchooL or call 7015 if you have seen it. 
Nt>t.>d GA Navy and Ga. Tech and Pitt tix's. 1652. 
Nl'ed ride to Evansville on Oct. 31 and back Nov. 2. Pay part ex­pt.>nses. Mike 3133. 
One Ga. Tech GA ticket needed. Call Tom 1001. 
Wanted: i or 4 GA Ga. Tech. tickets. Will pay $$, Help! Call Mary, 5135. 
Desperately need 2 GA tickets for Ga. Tt.>ch. Call Ron, 3374. 
Need 1 ride to Chicago, Friday Oct. 31. Call Anne, 7836. 
Need 2 GA tickets to Navy game · please call Ceil at 4648. 
Need 2 Junior Class Pitt Trip Packages. Call 4424. 
Need 4 Ga. Tt>ch. GA tix's. Call Mike Raftis, 272·1475. 
CLASSIFIED FIDS 
WantPd: 2 GA fix's for Georgia For Sale: 1968 Olds Cutlass S.
Wanted. 2 GA Georgia Tech. tix's. 
l•·ch Call Sal, 6984. Power Steering, Air, Radio. Aged
Call 259-0631 after 5 pm_ 
-·---·-·---------well. $595 or best offer. 234-5980 w,1nted: GA tickets tor Navy and after 6.
Needed: Two or Four GA Georgia 
Gt'orqia ll'Ch. Call 287·5113.
Tt>ch tix's. Call StevE' at 287·2051. 
FOR RENT FREE SKIING:
Wantt>d 4 GA Navy tickets. Call 
Royal Valley Ski Rt>sort, Attention married students: F·
Pat at 7128. 
Buchanan, Michigan. There are a urnished house 2 miles from NO.6 lew vacancies for ski patrolmen. rooms plus l' 2 baths, utility,DPsperately need 2 Jethro Tull t­
Only 15n•inutes from Notre Dame. scret>ned porch, garage. No pets,ickets. Call Jim, 3610 or 3593. 
You lll"<;t be a qood skier. no children. Rt>ferences and Volunteer duty times of your dt•posit required. $175.00 month
IIJPt>d Ga. Tech tix. Call 4008. 
choice; c~ftt>rnoon, Wl'E'k nights, plus utilities. Call 232·0912 after 5 and week,'nds. Current N.S.P.S. or wt•t>kends.
.~eeded rnalt.> to share two 
preft>rred. Phone: 684 1452 or 695·
bedroom house · Mishawaka. Call 
3847. For rt.>nt: Someone to sublet apart­259 9173. 
nwnt at Crestwood. Call 232·3516. FOR SALE Rt>nting from Jan. to May.
NEEDED: 2 GA Navy tix's. Call Jen, 7248. 
For Sale: Furniture, chairs, NOTICES shelvt.>s, everything. Call 232-3516.
I tlave lotsa bucks but nE'ed GA 
Very rt>asonablt>. 1BM St>lectric II Typing, student
Navy ticket. 1875. 
ratt•s, dissertations, Linda's Let­For Salt>: 1971 Triumph TR6. Steel tprs, 289 5193.
I nt.>ed two GA Navy tickets. Call 
bt>lted radial tires, price reduced.
3065. 

Call 272-2844, after 5 pm. Pregnant and didn't mean to be? Call Birthright, 288-7640.
Wantt>d: 3 or 4 ND.Pitt tickets. 
Quality Stt>reo Components at 20·40 -----·-----­Charlie, 233-3769. 
perct.>nt savings. RMS Audio. 321 S. "Gay Guide to Notre Dame-South Main, 288·1681, 12·7 pm. Bmd." One Dollar. Available at
Need 4 GA tickets together tor N­Pandra's or write PO Box, Ntre 
avy. Call Paul 1146. 
For salt>: Jt.>wt>lry: tinishE'd pieces, Daml', In, 46556. coral. turquoise, sterling,
Need 4 GA tickets for Navy. Call 
diamonds, t.>ngagement sets. Low Frt>e ride to Mass. for T· 1683. 
prices. 234-7063. hanksgiving to any senior over 21 willing to s1gn up for a rented Van.
Net.>d 2 GA Navy tix's. Call Paul, 
Car for Salt>: 1964 Dodge 440. Other riders to pay all expenses.
1018. 

Automatic, powt>r Steering, Radio Call 1022 attPr 5:00, ask for Jim. & StPreo spt.>akt>rs. Fixable brake 
Net.>d five Navy GA tickets. Call 
lint> leak. 18 rnpg on highway, $260. 
Tim or Gt>rry at 288-4217. 
Call 277 0965 after 6:30. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho, 232-0746. 
Learn sport parachuting the sate way at Oxbow Air Sports Center. 2 wk. spt>cial $35.00 jump course plus $15 for first jump. Contact Dale: 683-8980 or John: 1-7823500. 
LOST & FOUND 
Found: Sterling silver cross pen with initials engraved, 289·8197. 
Lost: Navy blue & white Stag ski Parka, 7802. 
Lost: copper frame glasses; ACC vivinity or D l parking lot, 1264. 
Lost: Oct. 10, Man's watch; behind CCE on football fiE'Ids. Brown leatht.>r strap, cracked crystaL Reward. Call Tom 1694. 
PERSONALS 
Girls wanted to improve MBA's ' Social life. Inquire to: Roger D. PO Box 723, Notre Dame, Ind. 
---··-------­
Hollywood, Kt>vin, Sean, 
Whtm's the next performance? Sorry our last curtain call was a dud' 
"Michelob" 
Alan Saalft.>ld is 30 years old! Can you belit>vt> it? 
"Ain't no way to trE'at a lady" St.>x Discrimination still exists at NO. For info call John, 287-7402. 
: 

[ Thursday, October 30, 197S
12 the observer 
' t 
. , I 
~ ~ 
\ Interhall football games 
'\ 
'\ 
... < marred by two protests 

by Ray O'Brien 
The South Quad ended its season last night on a sour note. The South is in a state of confusion as Pangborn protested its 0-Q tie with Fisher and Dillon won by default over Howard-St. Ed's. 
Pangborn claimed that Fisher used an illegal player. Their protest hearing will be held later on this week. Dillon was handed at least a tie for the South Quad title when Howard-St. Ed's failed to show up for the game. 
Howard did not even notify the league officials or Dillon's captain. The forfeit hurt Pangborn's chances for a first place finish. 
There was more action off the field than on as Keenan won a protest against Stanford Tuesday night. Stanford used an illegal player in its 6-0 win over Keenan last Wednesday night. The reversed decision kept Keenan's record perfect at 5-0 and assured 
', ) them of at least a first place tie. 
' ~ .., 
The North Quad will end its season
\,l 
' l 
l
' 
'· 
this Sunday. If Keenan loses and game and Marc Clark replaced Flanner wins there will be a him. OC drove to the 1 yard line playoff Wednesday night. behind the power running of Jack Likewise, if Pangborn wins its Licata who played brilliantly all protest they will play Dillon in a game. A stubborn Morrissey playoff Wednesday night. defense held. But on the first play of the second quarter OC Pangborn 0 Fisher 0 linebacker, Rob Poteraj, tackled a Morrissey running back in the end 
This game belonged to the zone for a safety. defenses as neither team could get OC kept the ball and drove 65 much of an offense going the whole yards on the running of Licata and night. Two Pangborn field goal a connnection between Clark and attempts of 42 and 24 yards by split end Len Moty. Wide receiver kicking specialist Joe Nicholson Kevin Saddler scored the touch­posed the only scoring threats of down on an 18 yard pass to give OC the game, but both were wide to an 8-0 lead as the first half ended. the left. Pangborn running back Off-campus lost no momentum 
Steve Thomas and Fisher running during halftime as they took the back James Clark were the only opening set of plays for a 65 yard bright spots in inconsistent of­drive and a touchdown. Len Moty, fenses. the third OC quarterback in the game, connected with wide Off-Campus 14 Morrissey 7 receiver Tim McKay for 13 yards and the final OC touchdown. Off-Campus used three quar­McKay also shined on defense as 
terbacks in their attack against he intercepted two passes from his Fisher. Starting quarterback Bob cornerback position. Zierk was injured early in the Morrissey scored its lone touch-

WomenS IH enters final round
*Observer 

by Eileen O'Grady 
; ; 
Walsh ancl Lyons emerged the 
. ' 
l I 
winners of the Women's Interhall
' ' 
football playoffs Tuesday and Wednesday. These· two will battle 
e~.ch other for the championship on Thursday afternoon at 4:30. 
I I 
~A 
')('\i ; 

\ 

Extra Points 
~~~Contact~ort? 
l. 
Violence in a very violent game is just an ex­
' '·!·
·,. pected occurance. In hockey, one of the most 
I physical games, it has been said for years that he speed of play, the body -contact, and the escalation of tempersin the course of the game is what ac­counts for the violence. Some people might take exception to that, and one man is Robert Marvin Hull. 
The Golden Jet, Bobby Hull left his World Hockey Association team Friday the Winnipeg Jets, temporarily in protest over what he considers ex­cessive violence in professional hockey. 
Hull, one of the greatest players in the history of the game, said he hoped that his action would dramatize his view that the sport has become too violent and would force WHA officals to take steps to curb the trend. Hull also complainedthatthe finesse is going out of the game, only to be replaced by growing brutality. 
The problem of violence in hockey has been on the lips of most observers of the sport for the past several years. Most trace its start back to the success that the Boston Bruins and the Philadelphia Flyers have achieved by using in­timidation tactics. 
Bringing the discussion closer to Notre Dame, Ric Schafer, Irish assistant hockey coach pointed out that "pro hockey is starting to create mosnters in the way the game is played." Schafer played for three weeks with the Minnesota Fighting Saints, and then by his own choosing picked up his skates and left American hockey for a chance to play in Olten, Switzerland. 
"I just didn't like the way the game was being ~ 

)l 
played in American pro hockey. I want the game
y, 
rough,but fair too, and it was getting to the point that it wasn't that way at all. The game was ·accented
~~ 
~~ with the rough stuff just too much." \~ He cited the contrast when he went to Europe. "They play the game there in a fair and gen­
i i 
.( tlemanly style, where there isn't a lot of cheap '~ shots in the corner, and where there is a lot more 
I J 
comraderie after the game between the teams."
~( 
f\ Schafer had a chance to play in Europe while in high school, and when the opportunity presented itself to go to Olten, he jumped at the chance. "I
~~ 
just preferred playing there and wanted to go back," Schafer concluded. In talking with several of the Irish players, most
]I 
echo a concern for the game that they grew up 
withthat it may be getting too violent. Paul Clarke, 
,. a junior from Scarsborough, Ont., who will be playing defense teamed with Jack Brownschidle agreed with Hull's action. 
"Sure I agree with what he did. Philadelphia and
J,, 
Boston have definitely changed the style of play in J the pros and itjustplayed with the style and finesse like the Montreal Candians used too. The reason in 
·--­
i• the pros to go out and beat somebody up, that way 
i 
! 
! 
,; 
;' ~ 
I 
·.} 
il 
11 
·' 
you'II get noticed and you stand a better chance of making it." Clarke isn't so sure as to how thegame can be de­violenced. "I guess thethingis to control the game better but that's easier sais than done." Pat Novitzki, senior defenseman from Far­mington, Minn. concurred with most· of what 
Clarke said. Both stated their concern with what happened to former Irish skater Mark Steinborn while in the minor leagues. Steinborn gave up hockey after being cut with a skate in a game and after watching the violence get out of hand in the minors. 
"In the minor leagues the violence gets out of hand much more so", Novitzk pointed out. "Everybody wants to play in the pro's and now it seems like beingvery physical is the easiest way to get there." 
As for the violence inthe collegiate game Novitzki feels that since this is a stepping stone to a chance to play in the pros that the . violence is slowly · escalating there. "After all, " he said, "people look at the Flyers and they see that they play very rough, get lots of penaltties and yet are still the champions, so you start to think that maybe that's the way to do it." 
As for handlingthe violence, Novitzki agreed with Clarke that trying to control the game better could be part of the answer, and getting the amount of cheap shots reduced." Yet no one answer will do. 
A different perspective to the violence was given by goal tender Len Moher. "I haven't really noticed in the collegiate ranks that the game has gotten that violent. I'm only speaking from one year here, but I don't· see that much brutality, some cheap shots yes, and tempers flare, but I don't see it all that bad." 
Moher agreed that a lot of the increased physicalness in the game is a result of the success achieved by Bruins and Flyers. "But its a physical game, and I really don't think that its allthatviolent. I think its filled with more clean-hitting than violence but sone violence does exist." 
Even though its hard to pin down what exactly to do about the violence, the people of Minnesota may have sown the the seeds for a solution. During the summer, Dave Forbes of the Boston Bruins went to trial in court for a stick fight involving Henry Boucha then of the Minnesota North Stars. The case against Forbes was formitable, yet it ended with a hung jury and nothing came out of the weeks of trial, except that the peoplein Minnesota are fed up withthe violence on the ice. 
Now, I believe the ball is squarely in the hands of Clarence Campbell, the league commissioner. Either he takes firm action against the brawls that occur on the ice, or he will be responsible for ruining hockey and reducing it to nothing more than mayhem on skates. 
50 yards on a hand off from rookie 
Walsh 12 Lewis 6 
quarterback Kathy McRae. TheyThis game was the big upset h1 
were unable to convert the point.
the playoffs. Coming off three Lyons' second touchdown camedefeats in a r<•w, third place Walsh when defensive lineman Sue Zwick 
beat top ranked Lewis 12-6 in intercepted a lateral pass and ransudden death overtime. 
60 yards for the score. Again, they The game was highlighted by failed to convert.
excellent defensive action by both The Lyons' defense was sparkedteams, ending the regular game in by three interceptions, two caughta 0-0 tie. The only break in the by McRae and the other by split
defense came when Lewis half­end Jill DeLucia. Captain Sharonback Sue Behnke ran 50 yards for a Lopez was the defensive player of touchdown, b4t was called back for the game, racking up the moststiff-arming. 
behind-the-line tackles andIn sudden death overtime, Lewis quarterback sacks.
scored on the first series of plays. 
Fourth place Farley had goodQuarterback Byrne Murphy ran defense, despite the score. Defens­the ball in on a quarterback keeper 
ive end Mary Ellen Brochettaround the end. Walsh prevented grabbed the most flags beforethe conversion. 
Lyons had a chance to reach theIn Walsh's series of plays, line of scrimmage.
quarterback Anne Eisele Ctinneted 
to split end Chris Klucka who ran 
('hampionship Comments 

10 yard for their touchdown. 
Again, there was no conversion. 
The championship game shouldDuring the next series of plays 
be an evenly matched contest.
Eisele, playing safety, intercepted Walsh has the experience of three a Lewis pass and set up Walsh's 
years of championship seasons
final drive for the victory. Com­behind them. Although this seasonpleting the drive, halfback Becky has been shakey for them, they areThorton ran 10 yards up the middle coming off of a strong comeback ih for the score. 
the playoffs. 

Lyons 12 Farley 0 Lyons, on the other hand, has 
had a basically consistent season. 
In this second playoff series, Always known to be good for a second place Lyons dominated the hard physical game, the Lyons game both offensively and team .has tremendous power and defensively. In the first half, might provide obstacles for the Lyons' halfback Terry Welsh ran Walsh offense. 
Irish Ruggers win 
Michigan State, the Rugby Club
by Tony Pace 
improved its chances of receiving 
a wild card berthin the Mid­The Rugby Club's "A" Team America Cup playoffs. These bids improved its record to 3-2 this past will not go out for the next severalFriday evening with a 16-14 victory weeks. The Club's next match isover Michigan State. 
scheduled· for this Saturday
The overflow crowd at Cartier morning against John Carroll. ItField did not like what they saw in will be played on Stepan Field with 
the first half, as the Spartans 
the "B" game beginning at 10:30rolled up a 14-0 lead. A strong head and the "A" game at 11:30 . 
wind hindered the Irish kicking game andkept them pinned in their own territory. .... 
Pep Rally Set

With the wind at their backs in the second half, the Irish came alive. Mark Janko scored a try for The Notre Dame battle of 
the first four Notre Dame points Navy begins friday night, 7 p.m.,
and, later, he scored again. Eric at Stephan Center. The speakersSnider made the kick after Jauko's of this Irish psyche session in­second score and the Irish deficit clude: Defensive Line Coach Joe 
was trimmed to 4 points. With Yonto, Offensive Line Coach Brian 
little time left in the game, Sean Boulac, cornerback Tom Lopienski 
McDonald burst past the Spartan and halfback Mark McLane. Helpdefenders to score the final try of fire up the Irish for their gridironthe game. This knotted the game battle. 
at 14, but Eric Snider converted the 
The Band will step off at 6:40 kick for 2 points and the final from Washington Hall and request
margin of victory, 16-14. 
all bikes be removed from their 
By defeating highly regarded oath. 








