
OD The Inside 
SBP candidate platforms .•. pages 4 & 5 Tips for 0-C students _.. page 3 



serving the notre dome -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. ·811 Wednesday, February 26, 1975 
Few 0-C housing problems seen 
Booklet prepared by Off-Campus Commission, Housing Office 
Daley Wins big in Democratic primary 
by Maureen Flynn Staff Reporter 

Off-Campus Commissioner Stan Cardenas predicted today that students moving off­campus next year will have no major problems locating housing. Cardenas noted that both the Off-Campus Housing Office and Off-campus commission have complied information to help students find suitable housing and to acquaint them with the difficulties and responsibilities involved in off-campus living. 
"The administration has taken a better attitude towards off-campus housing," said Cardenas, citing the off-campus housing guide as an example of a "new awareness." 
In addition to its booklet, the housing office has assembled a list of houses and apartments available for rent to graduate and undergraduate students. Each of the 86 apartments and 68 houses on the list has · been inspected and evaluated by personnel from the 0-C Housing office and received a rating of fair, good, excellent, or superior. 
"The inspection of houses and apart­ments gives students the chance at the best picks," stated Cardneas, but pointed out one negative aspect of the housing list. "One thing inherently bad is that in one year's time we can't get to all the student houses, so the list is necessarily limited." 
Just because a house or apartment is not on the housing office's list, Cardenas ex­plained, doesn't necessarily mean it's bad housing. "There are good houses and good landlords who aren't on the list," he said. 
"If a student has questions about a certain 

landlord, for instance, he should ask Fr. 
Tallardia, director of Off-campus housing, 
Cardenas said. "He has a pretty good idea 
which landlords are good and which aren't 
and he'd be happy to be of help." 
Information packets ready 

Cardenas also noted that his own off­campus commission has assembled an information packet for students moving to communities outside the University. The packets, which can be obtanined from the hall presidents, contain the housing guide, a model lease, city map,•crime prevention ·l)rochure, and results of the 0-C 
Obtained bid for sixth term 
CHICAGO <UPI> Mayor Richard J. Daley, the 72-year-old power broker who has run Chicago for 20 years, overwhelmed three challengers Tuesday night in winning a Democratic mayoral primary which was tantamount to four more years in City Hall. 
The legendary Daley clout was such that the only serious Repubican candidate could not even win reelection to the City Council. Alderman John J. Hoellen said, "It's obvious that if I can't be reelected in my own ward 
'Faccenda bill' passes Indiana State Senate 
The "Faccenda bill," which would exempt colleges from liability for damages done by drunken students, passed the Indiana State Senate by a 44-3 vote. 
State Senator Thomas Teague, co-sponsor of the bill, told the Senate that a state appeals court ruling made schools liable for students'actions which are beyond the university's control. 
The court rase involved a minor who took alcoholic beverages from the refrigerator of an older sister without her approval and was then involved in a fatal traffic accident. 
Phillip Faccenda, Notre Dame general counsel, earlier testified that the decision implied that schools must have the samecon­trol overits students that parents have over their children. It is feared that schools would also be held responsible for students purchasing 11lcohol in Michigan, where the drinking age is 18. 
The bill t xol:'dl:'d to be discussed soon in the Indiana House. 
I can't run for mayor." 

Daley, beset by years, a stroke last summer, and charges of scandal, easily beat back the first primary challenge to the reign of the man called boss of Chicago since he took office in 1955. 
1\s expected, Daley's closest contender was William S. Singer, :l4, a reformist alderman from a 
· Gold Coast ward who gained national attention in 1972 when he led the forces which shoved Daley's Chicago delegation out of the Democratic National Con­
. houses, although he admitted there will be ~varying degrees of quality. "The later you • 1wait, the less quality you'll get," he stressed, "but we have found very few Notre Dame students living in what we would ,consider sub-standard housing." 1 Apartments may be a little harder to obtain, Cardneas noted. Campus View, for example, reportedly has only a limited ; number of rooms available. 
NOTRE DAME student picks up of available off-campus housing. The list has been prepared by the Off-Campus Housing Office to aid students in searching for ac­commodations. (photo by Paul Joyce) 
questionnaire issued at January 
registratioh. 

"I would like to emphasize a few points," stated Cardenas. "First of all the lease contained in the packet is a model. It does not have an attached schedule of features to check for and evaluate in looking for housing. The full lease can be obtained from Fr. Tallarida in the Housing Office." 
"If a landlord has a different lease than 
ours." he added, "the student should take it 
to Fr. Tallarida or to Joe Cassini from Legal 
Aid." 

In addition, Cardenas noted, figures 
contained in the questionnaire results are 
subject to change. "The utility figure has 
already increased 15 per cent. A 10 per cent 
increase in the food bill can be expected by 
the end of the fall semester." 
He also emphasized that the figures 
mentioned in the questionnaire results do 
not include the cost of laundry and gasoline. 
"We've found that money is generally 
saved in houses, not apartments," Cardenas 
observed. "It's very difficult to save in the 
Notre Dame Apartments and Campus View, 
for example." 

As far as housing for next year is con­
cerned, Cardenas coes not anticipate that 
students will have any difficulty fin~ 
vention. 
Singer was the only one given a chance to beat the old master. But Daley was running ahead of him by roughly two to one. 
With 2,622 of 3,146 precincts counted, Daley led Singer with 390,479 votes to 193,164. 
Trailing were Richard H. Newhouse Jr., a state senator bidding to become the first black mayor of this increasingly black city, and Edward V. Hanrahan, once a Cook County state's at­torney and golden boy of Daley's political apparatus until the mayor dumped him. Newhouse had 51,737 votes and Hanrahan 33,799. 
In winning his bid for an un­precendented sixth term, Daley pulled out all the stops. He mar­shaled all the forces Which had ~ won for him before--his army of I precinct captains and patronage workers, the money tycoons of the 
I Chicago establishment, labor big shots, black leaders, ethnic neigh­borhoods. It all paid off as Singer was able to hold littlebetter than even in the liberalareas where he had to score heavily and Daley's forces piled it on in the established Dl:'mocratic wards. There was an aldermanic election in Chicago Tuesday also, and Daley candidates appeared to 
be scormg weu m most areas. It was the first ·election in many 
Nine-month leases popular 
One decidedly bright side of the housing situation,however, is the general ac­ceptance of the nine-month lease. Most landlordswill allow students to rent an apartment only for the school year, instead of insisting_ on a twelve-month lease as in years past. 
A preliminary survey of the major house and apartment owners listed by the Off­campus Housing Office revealed how quickly the vacancies seem to be filling, and the general terms of the leases. 
The Joseph Gatto firm, which owns five houses all rated "excellent" by the housing inspectors, has rented all its facilities for next year. All the leases are for nine­months, and the average tenant pays $60 per month, no utilities. 
Ray Milliken, owner of 11 houses and an equal number of apartments, reported that he has rented 60 per cent of his properties and expects to have most of the vacancies filled by the second week of March. The average tenant pays between $65 and $80 per month, depending on the condition of the house and its distance from campus. The leases are for nine months, and the facilities are generally rated "good' or "excellent." 
Jack Robinson, owner of three apart­ments and four houses, reported that his property is not yet reserved for student use, but interested students should contact him immediately . Robinson will offer nine­month leases for property generally rated "good" at an average cost of $50 per student per month. 
Two of the sixhouses owned by Joseph 
Shula have already been rented, but nine­
month leases are available for the other four 
and for one apartment. The average cost 
per student is $40 per month plus utilities. 
Chicagoans' memory that Daley appeared to be in any sort of trouble. 
Some of his closest associates 
have been  involved  in  15  major·  
scandals.  Several  have  been  
convicted.  So  have  some  50  

Chicago policement charged with shakedowns. The mayor himself was accused of using his power to 
-;..._____
lucrative insurance business 
pa games, Dame Fellowship of Christian Athletes has sponsored hunger collections for the Notre Dame Third World Relief Fund. These collections have totalled $635.57 with one game to go. Pictured above are from left, cal Balliet, Ken Milani, Jim Early, and Mark Wurfel. Others who collected ere Mike Coscia, Dave Vinson, Mike Geers, Marv Russell, Dave Klel, Mark Brenneman, Drew Mahalic, Pete Cannon, Rich Caron, Mike Glyen, Rod Sutkowski, and Kevin Cassidy. 
Rent "about same" 
All of the housing landlords contacted stated that rent has not increased at all since last year or that rent was "about the same." 
Abshire Realties reported that all of its student apartments have been rented at a cost of $130 per month. Both nine-month and twelve-month leases were offered. 
Turtle Creek Apartments still have a few vacancies, but expect to have a waiting list by spring. A variety of apartments of varying prices are available, with the average cost per tenant being $125 plus electricity. Six-month andnine-monthleases are available, but tenants renting apart­ments for less than the full year forfeit haH of their $100 deposit. 
Notre Dame Apartments still have a number of openings, but these are expected to fill up quickly. Nine-month leases are available at an average cost of $60-$75 per student per month plus electricity. Notre Dame apartments are not recommended by thel housing guide because of some of the minorclauses in the lease. 
The manager of Campus View could not be reached for information concerning those apartments, but nine-month leases are available. 
With the exception of Turtle Creek 
apartments, all the landlords contacted 
mentioned some increase in rent over last 
year. Further information on available 
housing can be obtained by contacting the 
Off-Campus Housing office in Student 
Affairs or calling Stan Cardenas at the 
Student Government office or 283-1149. 
Cardenas was optimistic about the 
housing situation for next year, citing in­
creased cooperation with the neighborhood 
groups and the South Bend crime unit as 
examples of progress made this year. 
"I'm generally happy with the whole off­
campus commission," stated Cardenas. 
"They're really a group of hard workers. 
Steve Shankel and Jim Wersching have 
worked especially hard on developing the 
food co-op." 

Cardenas stated that further information 
on the food co-op will be issued in mid 'April 
"unless the new SBP decides to drop the 
idea." 

and a . push to the political aspirations of his sons. 
The stroke which forced him into surgery last May led to doubts whether he would even go for one last hurrah. And, after Daley declared himself in one more time, Singer forces said a large voter turnout would mean the upstart would have a chance. 




warld briefs 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. (UPJ) -A federal judge will decide Thursday whether James Earl Ray will be permitted to withdraw his guilty plea and stand trial for the 1968 murder of Dr. Martin _Luther King Jr. U.S. District Judge Robert McRae Jr. heard eight days of testimony in late October and early November on Ray's contention that he was pressured into admitting the murder of the civil rights leader. 
BONN ( UPl) -West Germany's highest court ruled Tuesday that abortion is essentially murder and to allow women to terminate pregnancies on request violates the country's constitutional guarantee of the right to life. 
The Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe struck down by a 6-2 vote a 
rPform pushed through parliament by the governing Social 
ll··mocrats to permit abortion on demand during the first three 
months of pregnancy. 
\\ ASHINGTON (UPI) -The House Tuesday passed a bill to continue foreign aid spending at its present level for another month while it workson legislation cutting the new foreign aid budget by $800 mill ion. 
The House voted 308 to 75 and sent to tnate a measure providing for foreign aid spending to continue at the current rate of $3.5 billion a year until March 31. 

an campus taday 
3:30 p.m.--question-and-answer, discussion with william sloan coffin, chaplain of vale unlv., Iafortune ballroom. 
4:15 p.m.--lecture, "'a model of college choice," by prof. sophie 
korczyk, rm. 24, hayes-healy. 5 p.m.--vespers, evensong, log chapel. 
6:30 p.m.--meeting, sailing club, rm. 204, eng. bldg. 8 p.m.--panel discussion, "people and environmental ethics," rm. 104, O'shaughnessy hall. 8 p.m.--lecture, dr. charles rice and barbara breuer-slpple, wash. hall. 
8 p.m.--drama, "medea," spons. by nd-smc theatre, o'laughlin aud. 
8, 10 p.m.--film, "the loved one," $1, eng. aud. 
8: ·'i p.m.--concert, edward druzinskl, harp; katherine glasser, piuolO, $1, lib. aud. 
9 p.m.--meeting, an tostal committee, lafort~ne ballroom. 
10:30 p.m.--lent prayer service, sermon by william sloan coffin, chaplain of yale univ., sacred heart church. 

McLaughlin to select director of 1975 orientation coznznittee 
by Mary Reher Staff Reporter 
Selection of the director of next 
year's freshman orientation 
committee by Student Body 
President Pat McLaughlin will be 
made in the near future. 
"I have not decided yet what I am going to do," said McLaughlin, "because I have been so busy the last couple of weeks, but it will be someone who has worked on it before." 
Drew Costarino, last year's director of the committee, stated, "In the past, the incoming president has made the ap­pointment of the director on the recommendation of the outgoing president. There is really no set rule as to who makes the ap­pointment, however, so it depends on what the agreement is between the incoming and outgoing presidents. 
Former committee member Mark Nishan observed, "It is usually just a matter of formality as to whom is appointed because nine times out of ten it is someone who has been on the committee 1 before." 
Mark Grove, another committee. member of last year said next year he and Mary Iden will probably be CO-{!hairmen since they are the only committee members retur­ning to the committee next year. 
The freshman orientation committee was initiated two years ago. At that time there were two directors but last year Costarino acted as the sole director. 
"After the director is appointed, an announcement is put in the Observer asking for students interested in working on the committee," Grove stated.· "These people are then interviewed by either the student body president of the new director prior to the selection of the members." 
Last year the committee sf;lrte4 ~ work a little late in' April) and) it ,' was rushed, said Grove. This year the Admissions Office wants to start by March 15, he noted. 
"One of the first jobs for the director is to get each hall president to appoint one of the residents a chairman for the committee," said Costariho. "This may take time and involve some prodding because the halls are changing regimes at the same time." 
Another time-{!onsuming job is to supply the hall chairmen with the names and addresses of the in­coming students, both freshmen and transfers, from Admissions, noted Nishan. "This can really set you back because the list keeps building as time goes on," he said. 
Costarino stated, "After Easter vacation the committee can hold meetings between the hall chairmen. Between Easter and May a lot of planning needs to be done so the program can be set before the summer." 
Grove noted that, because of final exams, not very much work can be accomplished in May. 



Applications now being 
taken. for the ip()_sitio~ of The Observer Editor -in--chief·. Submit all_ resumes to Tom Drape at . , 
~>"·)J·'l·"' ..... ,,'\ ,.-,)) ... 
.:·'·, .:~··,: (. ·... •.:r ·' .

'lne bbserver office by Feb. 27 
There is a possibility the directors will remain on campus this summer to work on the orientation just as Costarino did last summer, he added. 
Nishan said the committee usually leaves school later than the rest of the student body in the summer and returns to campus earlier in the fall. 
Listing some of the committee's work, Costarino spoke of a break­fast for transfers with the ad­ministration, a picnic, imd in­formation booklet welcoming new students, and coordinating ac­tivities with the freshman year office, student affairs, the registrar. and the dininJ{ halls. 
The Observer Is pubiiShld dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuoents of the University of Notre Dame lnCI St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year! from ·The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

*NOTICE * * * 
,Clemency Program head asks for month extension 
WASHINGTON (UPI)--The head of the Presidential Clemency Board Tuesday asked for another month's extension of the limited amnesty program but critics of the program said it wasn't necessary. 
James M. Wagonseller, national commander of the American Legion, in a telegram to President Ford reiterated the Legion's op­position to amnesty and said Ford had "already afford ... ample op­portunity" for Vietnam War veterans through the initial program and the one month ex­tension granted at the end of January. 
Henry Schwarzschild, director of the American Civil Liberties project on amnesty, said that "a program that is bad with its moral and legal presumptions is not improved by extending it." 
He suggested that the Clemency Board's part of the three-pronged program "be investigated by the Consumer Protection Agency" because for the majority of people eligibile for the program "it offers absolutely nothing and invites them into a program on false pretenses." 
The Clemency Board has under its jurisdiction 120,000 draft resisters and military deserters who have already been convicted for their offenses. 
But Schwarzschild said most of those people have never been convicted of a crime and therefore the promise of a presidential pardon is meaningless. 
In addition, he said, most of them have administrative discharges from the armed forces rather than courts-martial related discharges and the Clemency Board can do nothing to upgrade their discharges. 
"The clemency discharge," he said, "is worse than an undesirable discharge." Other parts of the program in­
Goodell, in making his pitch to clude the 4,400 known draft President Ford for another ex­evaders still at large and some tension of the clemency program 10,000 to 11,000 military deserters said he expected applications to still free. About 11 per cent of the the board to reach about 10,000 by draft resisters and 42 per cent of the end of the month when !he the military deserters have ap­clemency offer is due to expire. plied to the program. 
PL)'.I\JNING TO SEE: 
"YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN" 
or 

"LENNY"? 





WAIT!! 
MO_RE $1.50 PLITT THEATRE TICKETS WILL GO ON SALE SOON AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE. {2nd floor Lafortune) 
PLITT TIX ARE GOOD FOR ALL SHOWS ( EXCEPT THOSE ADVERTISED AS "SPECIAL ATTRACTIONS ") AT THE SCOTTSDALE, TOWN & COUNTRY AND STATE THEATRES 
List included elections, Mardi Gras 
HPC discusses various topics 
by Lonnie Luna Staff Reporter 

Bob Howl, HPC chairman, told the HPC last night that University· General Counsel Philip Fac­cenda's bill has passed the Senate and is now going to the House. Faccenda's bill states that all colleges and universities are exempt from liability for injury caused by actions of a drunken student, provided the institution neither knowingly nor in­tentionally provided the alcoholic beverages. 
The other bill in consideration is the lowering of the drinking age to 18, which may be amended to 19. 
"The bill is looking great and it's not as dead as it was thought to be," said Frank Flanagan, SBVP. Flanagan and McLaughlin have worked jointly with the ISA to lower the drinking age in Indiana. 
Flanagan expfained the procedure and agenda that will 
be used in tonight's_ cam­paign rally in the LaFortune Ballroom. The rally will begin with a five-minute talk by Pat McLaughlin, SBP, on the past administration, the object of the forum and the ground rules. 
The candidates will speak in the following order: Culligan, Cor­pora, Bury, Boyle, Byrne, Gassman, Smith and Hegarty. Each will give a two-minute speech on their platform and their goals. 
The audience is encouraged to ask such relevant questions from the tuition increase to the calendar issue, Flanagan said. He urged all hall presidents to ask students to attend the forum, since the forum is designed to acquaint them with the candidates. 
Stan Cardenas, off-campus commissioner, gave packets of off­campus housing information to all hall presidents. The packets in­clude ads for different types of locks that are recommended, copies of leases, guidelines and maps of the locations where students may consider living to move off-i!ampus. Cardenas asked , allstudentsmoving off-i!ampus who have a place in mind to see Fr. Tallarida, director of off-i!ampus housing, to get more information on their house. 
"Ifa student is looking for a good place to stay and is not sure of the landlord, he should talk to Fr. · Tallarid31llbout the landlord to see if he is on one of he lists and to see if any complaints have been received about the area or lan­dlord," said Cardenas. 
Cardenas stated that the Campus View apartments were full. He also recommended that students not sign a lease with the Notre Dame apartments because of minor contract clauses. 
Bill McLean, advisor of the Ombudsman Service, explained the Operation Brainstorm to the HPC. Operation Brainstorm is a contest sponsored by the Om­budsman, awarding the winner with $50 for the best idea submitted by a student. The ideas will b based on three categories: (1) the originality of the idea or if it is a rejuvenation of an old idea, (2) the practicality, and (3) the im­plementation of the idea. The implementation should include cost breakdown, manpower needed, !;tc. 
Now's the time of the year that everybody has good ideas. And I don't see any easier way to get $50 than to submit an idea," said McLean. He also listed the prizes for the best ten ideas. McLean added that all forms for the contest should have been in the students' mailboxes by yesterday or late today. 
Marty Fahey, Mardi Gras treasurer, gave thehallsthe checks for the winnings and rebates for the raffle tickets for the carnival. Fahey also announced the results from Mardi Gras. The final booth standings were as follows: (1) 
Grace, ' (2) Keenan, (3) Sarin­Regina, (4) Flanner, and (5) Walsh. 
Grace Hall was the top money­winning booth and was awarded $100. Their total for the carnival was $3,233.80. Walsh won the best booth in appearance and Kennan sold the most raffle books. Nine out of the twenty-five booths were fined for allowing persons to deal without dealers cards. 
Fahey commented that the level of earnings for the booths was significantly higher than the level of earnings last year. 
Denis Sullivan, SLC Representative, stated that the laundry proposal was now in the hands of the administration. He explained that the majority of the students wished to use washers and dryers to supplement the laundry service. 
Also, the proposal asks for an increase in the basic price which is $2.60 at the present moment. The increase in the basic price is to compensate for the laundry in­crease which will take effect next semester. 
Co~n~nission collects tips to aid o-c 'life 

by Kathy Mills Staff Reporter 
To assist students in their decision regarding housing for next year, the Student Government Off-Campus Commission has assembled a packet of information on moving and living off campus. 
The package contains an off­campus housing guide, the results of the Off-Campus Commission survey taken in January, a map of the South Bend area, a model lease, a check-list of the apartment condition to be attached to the lease. and general information on crime prevention and security prepared by the Burglary and Crime Prevention Unit of the South Bend Police Department. 
According to Stan Cardenas, off­campus housing commissioner, the information packets will first be distributed through the hall presidents on a limited basis to those who are considering moving off campus next semester. 
"They will be given out carefully at first," he stated. "Depending on the demand after that, we are prepared to give out about 600 more." 
The off-i!ampus housing guide, arranged by Director of Off­Campus Housing, Fr. Thomas Tallarida, with the Off-Campus Commission, describes the rights and responsibilities of students under the law so that they can be more careful about contractual relationships with their landlords. It also contains potential sources of aid in selecting off-campus housing. 
The results of the January survey provide up-to-date information about off-i!ampus living, such as the places off-campus shop for groceries, the effects of off­campus living on academic status and social life, and estimated l'xpenses of living off campus. 
The checklist to be attached to the lease is designed to note the condition of the apartment and furnishings when the students move into and out of the apart­ment. Cardenas explained that this would prevent a landlord from unfairly suspecting students of damaging the apartment if anything is in poor condition at 
the end of the year. 
The security and crime prevention information in the package includes tips on home safety and protection, news on high-security locks, a pamphlet on Neighborhood Watch and in­formation on Project MARC to mark valuables in the house. 
Please ioin students, faculty, administration and staff 
. 
tn a lenten Prayer Service with sermon by our guest 
WILLIAM SLOANE COFFIN, Jr. 


17 years chaplain at Yale 


10:30 TONIGHT SACRED_ HEART CHURCH 
--Father Hesburgh, CSC 
,, . ·;& ·., 

-------~--------------------------------------------------i 
W,Htnesday, February 26, 1975 
the observer 
3 
IN CONCERT 



SEALS & CROFTS 
SUN. MARCH 2 ; 7:30·P.M. NOTRE DAME 
TICKET PRICES: ALL CHAIR TYPE SEA 
$1\.110 
BLEACHERS $5.00 
Tickets now on sale: NOTRE DAME, 
A.C.C. BOX OFFICE 
Mon.-Sat. 9 to 5 
UNION TICKET OFFICE 
Robertson's 
South Bend & Concord Mall St. Joseph Bank and branches First Bank main office only 
Elkart Truth 


THE NOT_R_~ DAME '-STUDENT UNION 
PROUDLY PRESENTS 



FREEPORT 
In The Bahamas 
Fors249 

8 days I 7 nights March 21 -28 
Includes 
* 
Round Trip Air Transportation on a DC-9 Leaving from South Bend 

* 
Accomodations

* 
In Flight Service 


* U.S. Departure Tax Enjoy Swimming, Golf Tennis, or Anything You Want In the Bahamas 
$50 DEPOSIT WITH SIGN-UP 
Sign Up At S.U. Ticket Office 
OPEN TO ALL MEMBERS OF 
N.D. COMMUNITY 





JUNIORS 
There are still some times open to have your senior pictures taken now -FREE. Remember it's-$10 in the fall. 
Call 3557 between 9 -5 or stop in 2C LaFortune 
.,.,

f~r an appointment 
j 


Candidates announce platforms 
· Primary elections scheduled for March. 3 
Editor's note-Th.-position of the can­dirlatl's on thl' following pages was arrived at by lott.-ry. 



Pat Boyle Tom Black 
Today, J. Patrick Boyle and Thomas Black officially began their campaign for student body president .and vice-president, although each has been involved in campus activities all year. 
Although the academic calendar has become an issue within the last week, Black, a junior government major, had previously consulted the Academic Commission about possible student opinions concerning the calendar. 
Boyle has also met with some of the members of the student committee that successfully revised the proposed academic calendar for 1972-73, reversing the ad­ministration's schedule for one favored by the students. "The 1972 calendar reversal proved that organized student involvement can be effective," Boyle stated. "We feel it's possible again." 
The student lobby to lower the drinking 
age is now gaining momentum in the state 
legislature, but earlier in the year, Boyle 
had contacted Governor Bowen's office 
concerning the issue and was encouraged to 
continue the student's involvement. Black 
is president of the campus N.Y. Club of 
Buffalo and has been active in Holy Cross 
hall government. 
Boyle, a junior in American Studies, has, 
since last April, been organizing the Junior 
Class Parents Weekend. As chairman, the 
has been working with a large committee of administrators and students, and has seen how vital student participation is for the success of any campus activity. "I feel student participation is the key to an active and effective student government. If we're elected, we intend to encourage student input in dealing with the problems related to coeducation, off-campus life, the calendar, drinking rules, and especially ad· ministration-student relations." 
Boyle and Black hope to continue their 
involvement with student concerns. "Tom 
and I have been individually working for 
months with campus issues," Boyle stated. 
"As can be seen, we aren't involved because 
we're running, we're running because we're 
involved." 


Dennis Smith , Bruce Rand 
I. Social Life 1. 18 Majority --this is the only way we'll be able to have large parties on campus; we must work through the Indiana Student Association and the State Legislature to lower the drinking age in this stae. 
2. 
Parietal Changes --adjust the parietal hours from 10:00-1:00 on weekdays and 10:00-2:~0 on weekends; possibly eliminate parietals altogether in male dorms, depending on results of parietal survey to be published soon. 

3. 
Co~d Dorms 


At Pat McLaughlin's 'bitch session' last Thursday night, we committed ourselves to run for student government, based on the belief that the interest and enthusiasm 
1 generated there can be expanded upon .to 
J include the whole student body. That ,m­terest, though, is most effective when it can be called upon at those unfortunate times when a forceful display of support becomes necessary. We only want your vote if you're willing to commit yourself, should the need arise, to full participation in a student questionnaire, or to the support of a possible boycott, or if necessary, to active support of an orderly demonstration. 


Brian Hegarty, David Caldwell 
To support student government, students must first fully understand it. Towards that end we would uublicize the student govern­ment budget hearings. The Board of Commissioners allocated approximately $83,000 this year and students should at least be fully aware of where the money goes and the process by which allocations are decided upon, and student body input into the process can be sought. Since we're all in this together, we would appoint a grad student and St. Mary's student to serve on the cabinet. On many issues a united group can be auite effective. 
To be· effective, and to be able to act rather than react, student government must be aware of the administration's goals, both long range and short term. Having a 

Jack Culligan, Bill Macauley 
To the students: 
What precludes many of Student Government's goals from materializing involves the free communicative flow between the students and their represen­tatives. To ameliorate this situation, we would like to integrate the H.P.C. into the active fold of Student Government. 
We feel that the H.P.C. has the greatest potential for gathering information and becoming a liaison between the students and the student government. In this respect, the student government can better represent the students. So that the H.P.C. will be representing all the students, we will establish two or three off-campus "Presidents". We will bolster the power of the H.P .C. by selecting a hall president from each district to represent the student body on the S.L.C. 
Since we want to establish a student­concerned government, we will make every effort to find out how students feel about different issues. We will do this by in­stituting a "complaint night" once a week for a couple of hours, where the students will be able to voice their opinions and ideas. We will also distribute periodic surveys in each of the halls to get a sense of the feelings and attitudes of the students on various issues so that we will have some direction in what to fight for. 
Some of our ideas about issues are, that the eighteen year-old legal age law should be passed and that parietals should be abolished. We will fight for these issues and any others that concern the students, such as the calendar issue. 
views of what to allow in their respective halls, some students are treated differently than others; right now, some rectors are abusing their power. 
3. 
Support Judicial Boards in Hall --all halls should have efficiently-run judicial boards to keep things the same throughout the University with respect to disciplinary action. 

4. 
Eliminate Dean's Prosecution Appeal --Dean should not be allowed to appeal a case if a student is found innocent; only students should appeal, if convicted. 



student sit as an ex-officio member at Central staff and Officers' meetings would be a big step towards accomplishing that goal. If the administration really doesn't have anything to hide, we don't see how they could object to the proposal. 
A good student government cannot orient itself totally to either the service area of the policy area. It must maintain a healthy balance between the two. In addition to continuing many of the things student govt. has and is working on, here are some other services and policies we would work to see imolemented. 
IV. General Complaints 
Calendar Change --support change to a week-long Thanksgiving break in the first semester. 
V. Off-Campus Food Co-op -it's been researched and located, and we'll 
get it running through the help of off-, campus students. 
Undergraduate membership on the Academic Council is now only 5 out of 66. We'd like to see that increased and en­courage the Academic Council to adopt pass-fail options for sophomores. Because we don't feel its reasonable for an academic institution to penalize the enterprising student for broadening his experience by signing up for an open, sixth course, we'd also like to encourage the Academic Council to drop the extra charge for extra credits. 
In a survey taken last spring, 92 per cent of the student body said they disliked the present visitation system in one way or another. We would like to see each group of students, the practical size of which would be determined by the hall staffs, meet together an determine and enforce their own hours. 
Also, for the off-campus students, we will do our best to make the food co-op succeed, fight for better police protection and better tenant rights, and keep the off-campus students informed and involved in the student government. 
There are obvious hypocrisies and prejudices we must fight against, and fight we will. The dignity of the student demands a greater participating role in finding solutions to many of the problems that are faced by the community. This includes such facets as housing, women's rights, and the existence of other organizations and minorities on campus. 
Power is a tenuous word, and it is something that students do not explicitly have. The only way that anything gets done or changed, whether gradually or im­mediately, is by complaining, bitching, yelling, griping, and constuctive non· cooperation directed to the Administration as a united student body. 
Our main weapon is publicity, and bad publicity is their greatest fear. When we find ourselves unable to accomplish or reverse unfavorable decisions within the appropriate channels provided, we will utilize outside means to put pressure for greater recognition and action on ·our demands. 
We are the survivors of a new era and 
heirs to the dreams of our fathers. No longer 
do we belong to the Notre Dame of previous 
ages which have laid the foundations for our 
greatness and their hopes. Those were 
distinct and unusual times and a past that 
has rendered to us a glorious history. But. 

Since over one sixth of the students live off cc>mpus, we would surely follow through with plans for such things as the food co-op. Perhaps many problems could be alleviated by working closely with such CIVI'; organizations as the Northeast Neign­borhood Association and the South Bend Police Department. 
In a campus survey, 88 percent of the males said they wanted supplementary laundry service. Since the administration seems reluctant to pay for machines in the dorms, we'd want to. establish a small laundromat in the old off-campus office in the basement of LaFortune. This would also benefit off-campus students. 
Many of the student complaints are direct manifestations of the University's in­terpretation of 'in loco parentis.' We disagree with that interpretation and will try to change it by our actions. 
Remember, apathy is contagious, butso is enthusiasm. 

fawning upon the triumphs of our predecessors. The time has come when we must advance our own interests and make our own history so that our successors may work from the benefit of our labor as we have learned from the lessons of others. 
Unfortunately, those that control the school have not made this road easy. It is they that have decided to embark on change, yet they keep our noses to the trough and the reigns fastened. They tinker with considerations for an expanded coeducation program, yet, they adamantly refuse to abolish an anachronistic parietals system. They give us half freedoms in decision making, token symbols of responsibility in determining our own lifestyle and rights. We are not the KIDS of Morrissey, Badin, Dillon, or Zahm. It is time for the students to develop themselves for a real world and grow as people. 
-~xperiment with co~d dorms, preferably in the towers; if it works well, expand so as to give students the choice between co~d and !-sex dorms. 
II. 
Legal Aspects of Notre Dame Life 

I. 
Overseeing Committee --council of SBP, SBVP, representative(s) from the Hall Presidents' Council, Academic Council, and the Student Life Council will meet in order to discuss what they're working on and to try to make the Student Government run more smoothly. 9 Define Power of Rectors --since different rectors have different 


5. Definition of "No-Knock Entry" Law -We must know what is "sufficient cause for entrance" by a University Official; in our estimation, no one should enter unless some other students are being offended. 
III. Academic Life 
1. 
Support Free University --this is a good voluntary learning ex­perience. 

2. 
Support Co~xchange Program with SMC. ··this adds to social life and is a good ex­perience learned in a different atmosphere. 



Statement 
We feel that the administration has been treating the students of Notre Dame like children for too long. No one has the right to tell legal residents of Indiana what is or isn't morally right. The faculty is also being used by the Administration in that they can get fired if they join a student protest, and that their salaries are below the national average for university professors. 
We plan to be a truly representative Student Government. We can achieve this through frequent columns in The Observer from the office of the Student Body President. Also, we plan to make visits to the residence halls, so as to establish per­sonal contact between students and the Student Government. 
Being the only pure South Quad ticket, our chances of winning are better. But the real reason we should be elected is because we want to represent the students to the Ad­ministration, rather than being the Ad­minstration's representative to the students. ~"w your concern for your University bU Xroting on March 3., Vote for the best ticket, in your mind. We think we fit that description. 

Wednesday, February 26, 1975 
the observer 


Mike Gassman Frank McGuire 
We are running for the offices of SBP and SBVP with the intentions of making Student Government more effective and more businesslike. Our solution for a more ef­fective government is improved com­munication in three key areas: 1) between the different branches of Student Govern­ment, 2) between the students and their government, and 3) between Student Government and the university's policy makers. 
ll To improve communication between the different branches of government, we will create a Student Body Congress. Composed of the SBP, SBVP, student representatives of the SLC,members of Student Union's Board of Directors, and members of the HPC, this Congress will present an opportunity for all members of Student Government to be informed of its intentions, as well as to evaluate its progress. The Congress will also be used in time of crisis (e.g. the Calendar and B-Ball ticket issues) to coordinate Student Government's response. 
2) To improve communication between the SBP and the HPC, we will also make attendance at the HPC meetings by the SBP and SBVP manadatory. 
3) To effect better communication bet­ween the students and their government, the SBP will seek a weekly column in the Ob-st'•·v..r' This column will provide students 
with first hand information of the developments in Student Government, our hope being that a better informed student body will be a more active student body. 
4) To create new channels of com­munication between the students and the Vniversity's policy makers, we will seek ex-officio membership on the Board of Trustees for the SBP and SBVP. As non­
voting members with speaking privileges, we would then be able to present the 
student's point of view at all meetings so that student opinion might he better represented.
5) To accomplish morein the SLC. we will encourage and work for better rapport between the student and faculty representatives. A united front of students and faculty means a more efficient and (•ffective SLC. 
6) To make Student Government more businesslike. we . will create the office (cabinet postl of Business Coordinator. He will assume the duties of the Student Body Treasurer and Student Union Comptroller. In addition, he will oversee all finances of Student Government and present monthly reports on total government expenditure 
9) To improve social conditions on campus. we propose a Joint Social Com­mittee to be headed by the Social Com­missioner of Student Union. This committee will consist of all the social commissioners of each Notre Dame and St. Mary's dor­mitory. Its purpose will be to encourage rapport between the two campuses, to 
provide a more representative cross-secti?n of ideas, and to better attend to the social needs of the ND-SMC community. 
Here we have provided a concrete and applicable solution to the problems now facingour community. The govern­ment will be more active and better prepared to face any and all challenges from the Administration. Above all, we will work for students to raise the level of Notre Dame Student Government to where it will be respected and appreciated by all. 
AndreW BUry
AJf d s d •
re on e1 
Upon considering what should be included in a statement of our "intent" • more commonly known as a "platform" • we humbly requested that these over-used and abused terms be eliminated from the context of this writing for obvious reasons. 
Primarily, as students we are aware of the problems that plague this campus--namely: Cll random expulsions of students from their dorms by their rectors without any recourse left for the students to take; (2) the problems caused by rectors who hold dual roles within the administraion, especially where these roles may cause a "conflict of interest"; (3) off-campus problems such as the food co-Qp financing and the use of discriminatory zoning against student housing; (4) the ineffectiveness of the student life council; (5) the poor handling of the calendar issue; (6) the alcoholic rulings and its affect on the social activities here on campus, just to cite a few. We as can­didates have definite ideas on alleviating them. 
We feel that the image of the student body president has regressed over the course of the past few years. When Robert Kersten was SBP, he showed that the students were getting involved in politics merely for 
personal gains, and ultimately showed that ·student government was a farce. Kersten proved his point, but in doing so the students began to lose the power that they once possessed.
This past year Pat McLaughlin entered his term of office and sought to make necessary changes. For the most part he was successful in turning the student 
· t t d t · t d
governmen t m o a s u en -or1en e 
· t' p t M L hi' b
orgamza JOn. a c aug m egan something, but one cannot expect him to change the entire image of student govern­ment in one year. What was initiated by Pat and his administration should serve as a 
guideline for the next SBP. 
Consequently, we are offering the students of this community something that has deteriorated over the past several years 
and is seemingly non-existent. What we are offering this student body is leadership; pure leadership; leadership that will strive to achieve the outlined goals specified earlier; leadership that will reconcile dif­ferences with Fr. Burtchaell without sacrificing unwarranted and unwanted consequences; leadership that would recognize student opinion and seek to overall a leadership thathwill not settle for the mandates issued by the administration. 


For the past three years, Andy Bury (SBP candidate> has been involved in student government. During his freshman year, he served as Business Manager for the Student Union Academic Commission. For the past two years he has been serving as the Student Union Academic Commissioner and until recently he was manager of Campus Press. It is interesting to note, that during his administration, the Student Union Academic Commission was operating without a deficit in its budget; something quite uncommon in student government. 
AI Sondej (SBVP candidate) on the other hand, is heavily involved in Keenan hall's government, in the capacity of a section leader for two years. Al's knowledge of campus government stems from his ex­periences directly concerted from within the hall. To many people, AI is a dedicated person; a person who would commit himself entirely to a just cause; a person who is seeking to learn more of student govern­ment in hopes of justifying and rectifying some aspects of government here on campus. 
Why Bury & Sondej'? First, of all we are sure that we can work together. Secondly, our contrasting backgrounds (on heavily involved in student government and the oth­er more involved in hall government) creates a "balance of powers" if you will, between the student government itself and the student body; leadership not only in the student government offices, but on the 
campus as well.

c
Joe orpora


1• s 1•
Jm pur Jng 
Juniors Joe Corpora and Jim Spurling are running on a platform whose theme is 
"Improved Communications. . . More Student Input."
Aimmg at the problem of communication at Notre Dame, Corpora and Spurling hope to develop a better rapport between all Notre Dame students, between the student 
· d b
body and the Administration an etween
Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Among their proposals in this regard are: 
l) 
more and better combined activities between the Student Governments of Notre Dame and St. Mary's, 2) public Student Government meetings so that any and all interested persons may attend, 3) a published monthly newsletter with a financial report (Every year each student pays a $14_00 Student Government fee, and this ticket believes that the students have a right to know what is done with this money.) 

4) 
Dial-An-officer. a phone which any 


student can call at certain hours of the day to express his or her views on any subject concerning Student Government. 
Corpora and Spurling's also aim to in­volve more students in Student Govern­ment. To fulfill this goal, the following proposals have been made: 1) and off­campus representative to the HPC, 2) one representative from each hall to Student Government to assist with debate and discussion and to return to their halls and post the minutes of the meetings, 3) a committee of Student Government representatives to all University offices, for example, a representative to the Laundry or to the dining halls. These new innovations, together with a general attitude of cooperation and openness will enable the candidates to realize their theme. 

Also proposed are an accredited com­munity service course and the installation of washers and dryers in the male dorms. They plan not only investigate but actively work to take firm action in such areas as parietals, more co-ex dining, the drinking laws (lobbying), the Dean's List average, an on-campus pizza parlor and improved art department facilities. 
A stress on cooperation among all elements of the Notre Dame -St. Mary's community characterized the Corpora­Spurling ticket. Cooperation discovers what can be done instead of grumbling about what cannot be done. 
1:' _., Byrne
LU 


Tom F1•fzgerald 
Tom Fitzgerald and I decided to run tor student body president and vice-president because we feel our experience in the years we've been at Notre Dame will help us to make Student Government more effective. 
In my sophomore year I organized an off-campus questionnaire which was used to show the advantages and the problems
h b · f d
greeting the students w o were emg orce 
off by the lottery. 
At the time of the questionnaire I was a 
member of the Academic Commission, a 
position I relinquished to become a member 
of the newly-formed Student Government 
Off-Campus Commission. This past October 
the committee on Undergraduate Life was 
established by the Board of Trustees. I was 
selected and later appointed chairman of 
the subcommittee on residentiality. 
I met Tom Fitzgerald this summer and 
when we returned in the fall Stan Cardenas 
recruited him to work on the Off-Campus 
Commission. Tom is the secretary­
treasurer of Cavanaugh and he too was 
chosen for the COUL where he chairs the 
finance subcommittee. 
(continued on page 11)

that will be available for public scru~b!!·n~Y:.,._..:;a!,l;c;.!!k!!n!!.ow::!:le~d~e~t~h~e,.;s:.::,tu:;::d~e~n!!ts:!...!th!!e:;m=s:;;;el:,:v,:;;e~s:..;,::a.:;:n.;;:...d_________________________________-.. 
7> To make the Student Union mm·e .efficient, we will enact a basic restructuring. . The Academic CommissiOn would be merged with the Cultural Arts Commission, due to the fact that their similarity of function would be better handled by a single faction. We will define the duties of all commissions so that they will not overlap. A well defined and better organized Student Union will be more productive and more beneficial to the students. 
8) To further improve student services, we will create the Off­Campus Commission. This eommission will supervise the proposed food co-Qp and other Student Government endeavors off-campus, and will provide more services for off-campus students. 
TAKE the Greyhound to Chicago every 

Friday NOW at 4:40 from Notre Dame. Two buses return on Sunday. 
Call Tom Boyer 272-1807 


The Festival of Literary Adaptations 





THE LOVED ONE 

Jonathan Winters Robert Morse Wednesday Night 8, 10 p.m. Thurs9ay Night 8, 10 p.m. All shows in the Engineering Auditori'um Admission to each film is $1.00 
averseas
THE OBSERVER 
A"' INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 

The Notre Dame 
Business: 283-7471
News: 283-1715
Editorial: 283-8661 
Fred Graver Editorial Editor 
Bob Mc~nus Advertising ~nager 
Tom Drape Terry Keeney Editor-In-Chief News Editor 
AI Rutherford Bob Zogas Business Manager
Managing Editor 
Wednesday, February 26, 1975 

Tonight's Town Meeting 
The town meeting has a long tradition, encompassing both the civil debate and the raucous mob. It is usually a place where ideas may be exchanged, discussions carried on, complaints registered and compromise begun. 
Essential to the town meeting is the participation of the members of the community. There is the opportunity for people to show their commitment to the interaction which is necessary to keeping their community vital. In a different light, the participation at a town meeting, can be seen as an adequate criteria for judging the commitment a community's members to its continued growth. 
Tonight, Notre Dame has an op­portunity to begin a tradition of vitality. The meeting in LaFortune has the potential of being a clearinghouse, an open soundboard, for ideas and discussions about what is happening at the University. The original conception of the meeting was one of a student gripe session. Such a session will be hopeless unless there is participation from other elements of the community, specifically the Administration, faculty and University staff members. 
The call to hold such a meeting is at 
once a move of trust and frustration. 
There is a very good chance that at­
tendance will be slim; it is not difficult to 
see that the campus is overwhelmingly 
apathetic this semester. There is also a chance, though not quite so good, that the meeting will be well attended. One must always reserve hope. 

There is much to talk about, much to bring out in the. open. The University has been running for too long without com­munication between its various elements. 
The meeting tonight cannot hope to hold the solution for any of these problems. But it does hold the potential for renewing some of the energy that has been lagging on campus for some time. 
We invite all members of the com­munity to attend tonight's meeting. There is not promise that any problem will be resolved, or even discussed. But, by the act of attendance, you will be rnaking a move towards opening up channels of communication that have been dormant. Channels of com­munication that, though they may be difficult and painful to enact, could begin to work in such a way as to instill new life, new spirit, perhaps new meaning into lhe Notre Dame community. 
It seems simple, but is so important. When you start to think about it, the challenge offered by tonight's meeting is larger than it appears. Realistically considered, there are few alternatives to renewing a spirit of solid interaction and 
growth than tonight's meeting. Fred Graver 


DOONESBURY 
NHH... tcr:s see... 
I 711/NK .ZU START 
Y(J(J (J(JT PIITH A .. HISTOtzy OFIliff d COl/~ .. 
Pl/.61?1,4(, IF '1WOWS71CK {(!IT!{ 17; Itt H££P YOU lHR{)(/61{ ltlc VAt!£P.i ANO MOUNTAINS OF 7Jf/5 £X~­Ie!KE/ Y~ lr >at CAN HACK n; IU Be W/?61/.. 70 YOVR IJIINTe! 

Moon Program 
peter h. karth 

The Notre Dame Moon Program.. .! beg your pardon? I hear the reader cautiously inquire. Yes, there are Notre Dame students in Mexico, in Innsbruck, in Japan and Angers and now-the moon. And it's high time, I might add. For years now we've known about the flourishing culture of the mini-people inside the moon, of their very complex and intricate system of linguistics ... and it's only IogicalthatNotre Dame would be among the first of universities to institute a program there. Bizarre, though, their manner of going about it. Only the students in France are informed of its existence­probably because they thought of it. In fact, this information is the base of dramatic presentations soon to be performed by a group appropriately known as "The Notre Dame Moon Program." Fascinating, isn't it. ~ 
The Observer doesn't always bring us the happiest portraits of life; ND students seem preoccupied with world hunger and star­vations; vague rumblings of social consciousness echo in the hallowed halls, and we read of dinners of rice and of tea, of students who bring themselves to skip one of those dining hall meals we all dream of now--and I kid you not. Somehow, floating across the vast spaces of the Atlantic, this news reaches my ears very lightly flavored with doubt, and perhaps ridicule. 
This is not out of a lack of respect for the people involved or their sentiments. But for me, after voyaging to the other side of the ocean and finding that it does indeed exist, I am struck by a tremendous need for "real" that is not easily satisfied. The physical world is so much bigger than it was before ... and other lifestyles are easily seen and experienced. Thus, I am very glad to hear that Notre Dame is opening itself to the realization of a world less fortunate than our own; but I am puzzled and perhaps worried as to the reaction--perhaps because I don't understand it. Be that as it may; please continue to read, and bear in mind that I am reacting to the picture that your paper paints of you. <It might be interesting, by the way, to save your Observers for a month, without reading them; then, inspect them en masse and see how much has gone on.) 
I fear this article is taking on an air both cynical and thoughtful; this bothers me. Cynics, I always enjoyed reading; but thoughtful writers I can easily desert halfway for the great joys of Doonesbu•·y, So out of the realm of thought into that of fact. 
We live with French families. Many things are different; often the homes are smaller, sometimes an apartment. Often we are limited to one bath per week; not a hardship invented for the American stuc;lent, but a rule followed by the entire family. 1be house is colder during the winter; heat does not start until ab­solutely necessary, ends early, and in some places, such as classrooms and the main hall of the University, is at times non­existent. Sometimes we eat with our families; meals vary from family to family, but you don't see the meat that you see at Notre Dame; at the University Restaurant here, we are fed tripe, a variety of intestinal delicacies, heart, blood sausage or worse, of unknown origin; and constantly-present mashed potatoes void of any taste. We don't have to eat there all the time; some of us never have; but the French students don't have that choice. Faced with this cuisine, we the Notre Dame students requested a raise in our daily living allowance that would have given us, per month, the same amount made by a French mailman for his family of however-many; and he has to pay taxes. I am extremely, ex­tremely spoiled. 
That is why this article is not asking for sympathy, nor for congratulations. Nor is it suggesting impracticalities; I would not want Notre Dame to cut down on its heating or its marvelous food or its typically American abundance of hot water. To my mind, the students pay for this. My suggestion is that it be appreciated. That it be relished in. That the students enjoy being spoiled, for life will not always spoil them. 
And if you want to do something~ First, I admire you for seeing past home and the campus, and for having the ambition to want to change the world, for that is what the problem demands. Secondly, work first with yourself and with no other. There walks on our campus an excellent example of what one person can do. And when you have the power to adjust the thermostat, which may not be so far away; when you buy a car, and by your purchase influence energy consumption; when you do anything, be it so small as paper you waste or hot water you let run, think: for our national consumption is made up of many small ones. And it's not an area where you accomplish a miraculous change, but a slow conforming to the needs of the world that will have to be bred into us and into our children. 
Eat rice and drink tea; to me, it seems more practical to give 75 cents to CARE and eat the food of the dining hall, for it will not fmd its way to starving masses in India. And be thankful; to God, ifyou wish, to whoever or whatever puts us where we are, to our parents.. .it can't hurt. And be thankful that, as men, we don't have to go to the moon to see how the earth as a whole lives. And whatever you do, know that you are loved by your friends in Angers, and that we feel ourselves a part of you. 
by Garry Trudeau 
SEe! NOW 
YOfJ SHOU/,f) 
1rNJ11J THAT! 
I 
the observer 
Night Editor: Rick Blower Asst. Night Editor: Maggie Waltman Layout Staff: Martha Fanning, AI Rutherford Day Editor: Ken Girouard Copy Readers: Ken Bradford, Jeanne Murphy, Jim Eder Editorials: Fred Graver, John Amantea Sports: Greg Corgan, Bullet Bob Kissel Typists: Don Roos, Jim Landis, Kathy Grace, Tom Modglin Compugraphic: Phil Orscheln Night Controllers: Howard Halle, 
M. J. Foley Wednesday, February 26, 1975 the observer 

7 

the rise of third party and independent politics 

• 
Our Two Party System of Democrats and Republicans has existed since 184:4. It bas survived every catastrophe from the in­ternal conflict of the Civil War to the ex­ternal struggle of World War II. Soon, however, it may be faced with its own ex­tinction. The Democratic Party may be stepping too far out front, and Independents, or others, may be next in push'ng the Republicans aside. 
A one-sided Democratic control >f the nation posed its first threat in the. landslide victory of Lyndon B. Johnson. The Democrats have held control of the Congress since the Administration of Dwight D. Eisenhower, but in 1964 they were gaining a firm control of both branches of government. Johnson, the Democrat, received a mandate from the voters, and brought with his victory a strong Democratic Congress to Capitol Hill. The threat to the Two Party System was overlooked, however, when the Republicans took control of the Executive Branch in 1968, and despite minor gains for the Democrats in the Congress that year. 
The threat is more seious today, however. The awesome weight of the G.O.P. elephant has been multiplied by scandal and rocketing inflation. It may not be able, as the last election showed us, to deep pace with the Democratic Donkey, the champion of Democracy, Unions, and minorities in the minds of many. 
A democratic landslide during a Republican Administration may have terrifying consequences to the traditional party balance. It increases the Democrats chances for control of th eWhite House in 1976, and a Democratic victory of that sort may bring more Democratic gains in the 
U.S. Congress. Then the Two Party System may be permanently offset, and the Republican elephant may be irrepaprably crippled and dwarfed by the Democratic Donkey. What then? 
A gradual or sudden withdraw} of the 
Republican Party from the political 
limelight may be a calling to Third Party or 
Independent candidates. Already there are 
two non-Democrat-Republican Senators in 
Congress, James L. Buckley, the Con­
servative from New York State, and 
Harry F. Byrd, Jr., the Independent from 
Virginia, both elected in 1970. James B. 
Longley became another prominent 
figurehead this year when he was elected 
governor of Maine. He commented to 
reporters after his election, "Maybe what 
happened in Maine can be a bell-wether of 
what can hap~n around the country. My
election says the voters are no longer going 
to tolerate partisan politics." 
Well, if indeed Longley's remarks can be 
taken seriously, and along with Walter 
Cronkite's reminder of "As goes Maine, so 
goes the nation", then perhaps this may be 
the beginning of a national trend, a 
challenge to the Democrats, and a threat to 
the Republican Party. 
The voter apathy that Longley refered to 
with reporters was reflected in the voting 
statistics. The 1974 elections showed the 
lowest percentage of voter turnout in almost 
thirty years. The newpaper of the Socialist 
Labor Party commented, "More than half 
of the nation did not see enough at stake in 
the campaign charades of the major parties 
to bother voting." This comment,for the 
most part. was true. Only 40 per cent of all 
eligible voters bothered. 
But those who did gave a significant boost to candidates outside of the two major parties. Overall, there were 345 Independent and minor party candidates in this year's congressional and gubernatorial election, and aitnough only Longely from Maine was successful in gaining a seat, most of the Independents made substantial showings at the polls, and most of the Third Party candidates made signigicant gains for their parties over the returns in the previous elections. Many Independents and Third Party candidates also were able to directly affect the outcome of certain elections, although none but Longly successfully won office. 
The Independents in this last election generally did very well. According to the Congressional Quarterly's Weekly Report on November 9, "Independent House candidates in Ohio, backed by strong organization, made substantial inroads into the vote margins of their Republican and Democratic opponents." In the 23rd District of Ohio Independent Dennis Kucinich was short 5.7 percent of the vote in winning. He received 31.1 percent of the vote compared to the Republican 32.2 per cent and the Demoeratic 36.7 per cent. hi the 8th District Independent Don Ginerich received 20.3 per cent of the vote which compared to the Democratic vote of 36.7 per cent and the Republican 43 per cent. 
In North Dakota's Senate race between former Democratic governor William L. Guy and Republican incumbent Milton Young, the outcome may have been altered by the candidacy of Independent James R. Jungroth, a long-time political enemy of Guy. Young was the unofficial winner by 16 votes, and although the scheduled recount could reverse the winner, Jungroth's im­pact, by pooling 3 per cent of the vote may have made a definite change in the cout­come. 
The Socialist Workers' Party enjoyed most of its success in the state of Ohio also, where its candidate for governor, Nancy Brown, received nearly 100,000 votes. The number of votes was substantial enough, like Jungroth's in North Dakota, to possibly have made a dramatic change in the election's outcome. Former Ohio Governor James A. Rhodes (R) beat the incumbent Governor John Gilligan (D) there by only 10,000. 
Although the Socialist Workers' Party's candidate for Lieutenant Governor in Ohio did not have a similar effect upon'the out­come of that race, Herman Kirsch was somewhat successful in his bid. He received 

by thomas o'neil 


the Communist for Congress in Tip O'Neill's district near Boston received 5 per cent of the vote there. In New Haven, Joelle Fish­man ran for Congress on the Communist ticket and received 3.5 per cent of the vote. In local elections, the party's most out­standing showing was in Santa Clara County, California where its candidate for County Assessor received 15 per cent of the vote. 
"The Independent vote is definitely on the upswing," Mark Johnson, an executive member of the Communist Party com­mented. "The Blacks elected in the last election are an indication of this. In both California and Colorado a Black Lieutenant Governor was elected, and although they ran within the confines of the Two Pary System, I believe they can be viewed as Independents. 
"The same can be said for the women," he continued. "When Anne Krupshak ran for the Lieutenant Governorship here in New 
... independents and third party people alike ...oust the reigning political machines and turn politics everywhere into a free for all.· 
114,000 votes, and although it was not enough to elect him, it was a significant increase in votes over previous year for the SWP. 
An American Independent Party can­didate, like Jungroth and Brown, had a similar dramatic effect on the Senate election in Florida. John L. Grady, the AlP candidate, received 17 per cent of the vote and apparently provided for the election of Democrat Richard Stone to the seat, since Grady drew most of his strength from traditionally Republican areas. 
The AlP ran more candidates for more offices this year than they had previously,and gained a greater percentage of voted in most areas. For the House of Represen­tative's seat in the sixth district of Virginia for instance, the party made its most im­pressive gains and pulled 26.2 per cent of the vote for its candidate, Sanders. This com­pares to the Democratic vote of 26.8 per cent and to the winning Republican vote of 44 per cent. 
The Communist Party also made some substantial, although less impressive, gains in the last election. In Illinois, for instance, where the party is fairly new to the voting public, 18,000 voters supported the party with votes, an increase of 50 per cent over their return in the '72 electit>n. Maura Ross, 

• 

York she got through the primaries and became a candidate. This was afirstfor New York." 
Another indication of what Johnson was implying was in the election of 103 newcomers to the House and Senate, the largest Congressional turnover since 1948. The newly elected officials everage to be 15 years younger than the officials they replace. These newcomers cannot in reality be directly aligned with the Independent and minor parites, but they do denote a change within the parties' apparatuses and indicate a voter rejection of Old Party Politics. 
A further indication of this rejection and a good example of it is the erosion of the Daley machine in Chicago by the gradual suc­cesses of independent candidates there. 
The independents in Chicago have traditionally lived in the highrises and townhouses boardering the lake. They were generally well-educated and affluent whites with an interest in politics. Most of them were lawyers. But with the latest success of the independent movement more persons became involved,' and its success had moved from the lakefront to the heart of the Machine's power. 
The success began in the spring of 1969 when an Independent alderman was elec­ted. In the Fall of the same year seven In­dependents were elected delegates to the Constitutional Convention. In 1970, enough backing was gathered to elect a state representative, and in 1971 five more aldermen posed successful election bids. In 1972 the movement was climaxing when six state representatives won office and even state senator. 
The importance of this example of a 
gradual voter rejection of the Democratic 
machine in Chicago is not merely that the 
machine was slowly and significantly being 
rejected. The voters could possibly have 
turned to the Republicans with more suc­
cess in overthrowing the Machine. But they 
did not. Itwas the Independents for the most 
part who were chosen by the voters to 
weaken and possibly usurp the Party Ap­
paratus. 

There is a difference now, however, in an 
analogy between the success of the In­
dependents in Chicago where there was 
extensive political corruption and the 
beginnigns of success for both the In­
dependents and Third Party candidates 
after the disclosures of corruption within the Republican Administration. The voting public has been discouraged by major party politics since the ordeal of Watergate, and now it is disgust with the condition ofthe economy that may give the candidates outside the Two Party System added voting appeal in the future elections. 
Historical evidence adds to this possibility. During the election of 1932, the nation was in the midst of the Depression. Nearly a million voters responded in that election for the Socialist candidate Norman Thomas instead of either Roosevelt or Hoover. 
A similar situation existed in 1924 when again the economy was a factor. Inflation was skyrocketing and 20 ~rcent of the voters chose the Pregress1ve candidate, Robert LaFollette against Coolidge or Davis. 
· Since then voters have been discouraged by past political scandals and an unpopular 
·war, as well as the economic recession. The inclusion of the 18 year vote as an in­fluencing factor is also important. The disenchantment of the young with the present political situation can give In­dependents and Third Party candidates added encouragement and support. 
Already Ronald Reagon has been fleeing from the Republican ranks and has ad­mitted that he may be considering running for president as a Third Party candidate or and Independent. Eugene McCarthy, from the ranks of the Democrats, has also in­dicated similar presidential prospects for the election in '76. 
So if, in fact they do attempt to unseat the Republicans they could only be encourage by Watergate, the recession, Longley's vote in Maine and the foundation laid for them by George Wallace in 1968 when he acquainted the voting public with another presidential possibility on the ballot. The effects, however, of an Independent adminstration upon the Two Party System are uncertain, but forseeably dangerous. It would encourage Independents and Third Party people alike, and the voters behind them, to oust the reigning political machines and turn politics everywhere into a free for all. 
The dangers are real and the implications are certainly frightening. In an article by Keving Phillips in "TV Guide" <nov. 9-15) entitled "Will a Third Party Get Fair Treatment From Television?", Phillips poses another complication if such a race became a reality: 
While it won't be easy for new parties to l'merge, a left movement would have a much easier time: first, their activities are heavily concentrated in the major Northern urban centers where TV cameras are readily available; and second, their black-, brown-, women's-Iib-intelligensia constituency encompasses just those groups that teletronic liberalism goes ga-ga over. 
In contrast, a conservative third party would find its strength in small towns, the countryside, drab suburbs, l'nd-of-thl'­subway-Iine ethnic city neighborhoods­everywhere that is less accessible, less fashionable. Can we expect the network nt.>ws chiefs to send crews to places they dislike to film politicians they despise raising issues they deplore to constituencies they disdain? Forget the possibility of sympathetic treatment. 
. . 
The Independents and Third Party can­didates have already made significant gains in the last election. If, in truth, this inspires them onto future gains, or left-wing demagogues onto possible noteriety, or even run-away Republicans and Democrats onto presidential aspirations, a quiet in­trospection and re-evaluation of ideology · will be demanded of each and every voter. 
. Beyond this nothing else could be 
•demanded. We are a democratic nation and a soCiety of freethinkers. Little else could be done. 


~t.===============================:=:::=:===:=:=:===:=:===:====:=========================================:=============·====================::===:============================================================:========:================:====================== 
·:·: .·.· 


l'. ~ ARE YOU SICKAND TIRED OF t 
:::: 
~~~~ 
:·:· 
f ::::
·.·. r :::: .·.· 



HAVING NOTRE DAME TREAT
.·.· 
:::: 
:::: 
:::: 
YOU LIKE A KID? 

II DO YOU HAVE A COMPLAINT, CRITICISM, IDEA, COMPLIMENT, OR OPINION ABOUT THE WAY THINGS ARE DONE? 
·.·. 


BE AT LAFORTUNE BALLROOM WEDNESDAY NIGHT~ 6:30. 
-
8 
the observer Wednesday, February 26, 1975 
Need 400 to move off 

Housing lottery elintinated 
by Don Reimer the contract before the deadline 
Staff Reporter· will result in forfeiture of his room 
reservation, though not 
Fr. John Mulcahy, Director of automatically force a student off­Student Residence, yesterday campus, explained Mulcahy. "If stated that a lottery will not be you are late in returning your needed to force students off contract and want to live on campus next semester. He cited a campus, you will be assigned to a stabilization of the housing room by the Director of Housing," situation as the major reason for he stated. elimination of the lottery. "If enough people do not move 
"I believe that we now have a off campus voluntarily," said stable situation and we plainly do Mulcahy, "I could use the late not need a lottery," said Mulcahy. cards as a method of choosing who "The fact that I already sent out will be forced to go off." the housing contracts without any Mulcahy noted that last year mention of a lottery speaks for somewhere in excess of one itself," he noted. hundred students neglected to 
Mulcahy pointed out that he was return their contracts on time. hoping for about 400 students to "We did honor them if they were move off campus voluntarily, turned in late," he remarked, but thus eliminating the need to he emphasized that tardiness force anyone to move. "I need subjects a student to the possibility about 400 people to move off of being forced to move off cam­campus, give or take ap-pus. proximately fifty," he commented. In a letter accompanying the "If I underestimate by less than housing contracts, Mulcahy ex­fifty, I can always find room for plained the regulations concerning that many more somewhere on changing halls. Since there is no campus," he said. change in the male dorms this 
Mulcahy characterized his hope year," the letter stated, all male of 400 persons moving off campus students are expected to return to as a "calculated risk", but he the hall that they last resided in. expressed confidence in his No student will be allowed to estimate, "I think that it is a good move from one form to another bet on my part that enough people without the consent of the Director will move off," he said, "because of Student Housing, the letter 400 is about the normal percentage continued. of students who choose to leave Students who sign and return the campus." contract and then give notice of 
The deadline for return of the moving off campus will forfeit housing contract is April 15th their $50 security deposit, the letter according to Mulcahy. The con-stated. The letter also noted that tracts for male students were sent room picks will take place in each out on February 21st, and those for hall on April 30, May 1st, and 2nd, female students will be sent next after which no room changes will Friday. Mulcahy esplained that be made. the delay in sending the women's The period of the contract, ac­contracts resulted from the cording to the list of terms which complications involving the move also accompanied it, is the entire of undergraduate women from academic year, Fall and Spring Badin hall. semesters. 
Failure by any student to return The terms of the contract reserve several rights to the university including the right to enter individual rooms. Tht clause reads: "the university reserves the right to make whatever reassignment for adjustment in accommodations deemed necessary; to inspect rooms for cleanliness or to make repairs; to enter rooms without ·a search warrant for the purpose of maintaining security, discipline and the orderly operation of an educational institution." 

This contract also constituted acceptance by the resident of all the rules and regulations per­taining to the University of Notre Dame residence halls, according to the terms listed. 
]o ]o Gunne to perform· in concert 
The Rock group Jo Jo Gunne has been signed to open the Joe Walsh concert March 12 at the A.C.C., according to Peter Kernan and Bamboo Productions. 
Jo Jo Gunne has made two previous South Bend concert ap­pearances, first in May, 1973, at the Morris Cvic Auditorium, and more recently, last fall at the 
A.C.C. with Black Oak Arkansas. 
Tickets for the Joe Walsh-Jo Jo Gunne concert are now on sale at the Student Union Ticket Office and at the A.C.C. Prices are $6.00, $5.00, and $4.00. 
THINK .. . 
CQ.LEGE LIFE 
INSURANCE CO.OF AMERICA 


2046 South Bend Monday Beer Nite 8 p.m. -2 a.m. 
IF YOU DON'T SPEAK UP NOW, YOU MIGHT NOT GET THE 


Wednesday, February 26, 1975 the observer 
Cockrell replaces Zorn 
Graduate Student Union 
0JnbudsJnan Director nan1ed 
D. degrees in modern languages from Cambridge University. 
JAZZ 

Constitutional 
AT THE 

changesuggested 
NAZZ 

WASHiNGTON (UPI) -Con­gress was urged Tuesday to change the Constitution to force a special presidential election if 
ND COMBO • ERG'S 

an appointed vice president should ever again become chief 
FINGER CIRCUS 

executive. "I think even Gerald Ford would feel a lot more comforta­
Time 10:00 p.m.

ble if he were elected by the people," said Sen. John 0. Pastore, D-R.I., author of the 
Place 

proposed constitutional change. Ford is the only President to 
Basement of LaFortune 

come to office under such 
The Ombudsman is currently in the processs of initiating several new programs to help students. They are studying the photo copying services in order to compile a listing. "The list would provide complete information on prices, locations, hours and rates," stated the director. 
Operation Brainstorm, which began last Monday, is also being sponsored. by the service. "We feel that it's about time the student had a chance to express them­selves in an easier manner," commented Cockrell. 
Forms for ideas from students are being distributed and those submitted will be judged by the Ombudsman Advisory Board. The grand prize in the contest is fifty dollars. 
The Ombudsman is also striving to improve the Campus Mail Service. "We're been meeting with Brother Just and he promises full co-ilperation. The problem is that the hall clerks do not pick it up every day as they are supposed to," stated Cockrell. 
Another project the ombudsman is presently involved in is Hallmark. This is set up so that students can mark their valuables with an engraving tool. "We hope to have this service available very soon," said Cockrell. 
Cockrell is assisted by the Deputy Director of the Om­budsman Service Tom Gibbons. The office is new and had been in the plcnning stages for the past year. In the event that the director cannot fulfill his job Gibbons would step in. 
Gibbons described hmself as an interim assistant since he'll be a senior next year. "The purpose of the new office is to have someone available who will eventually take over. When a qualified man comes along he will probably be ap­pointed and I'll step down." Gibbons also serves as Personnel Director. 
Another assistant of Cockrell is the Program Co-iJrdinator, Robin Lavender, "Her job is to handle relations with the university staff and problems that I simply don't have time for," explained Cockrell. 
The Ombudsman 20, a group made up of the executive board and the executive staff, will be depended upon heavily to play a vital role in the service next year," observed Gibbons. 
"I feel we have an excellent staff of people who are concerned with student problems and doing their jobs. The recent recruiting of sophomoges and freshmen into the organization will strengthen it and supply much needed manpower and new ideas," concluded Cockrell. 
I 

i SENIOR CLUB ~ i This Week i• !• Wed -Sat 5 -9 : 
! Sandwich & Beer $1 .00 ! 
!• Wed 7 & 7 50 ct •i
• i Thurs Gin&Tonic 50ctii Fri 4-6 Happy Hou~ i Sat 7 & 7 50 ct i• 
General Meeting 
12 -noon Feb. 27th 
Library Aud. 
ND·SMC THEATRE AUDITIONS 
_kanot ~~ 
Friday, March 7, 7 PM O'Laughlin Auditorium Monday; March 10, 7 PM Regina Hall Auditorium (Audition materials available Speech and Drama Dept. Office--110 Moreau Hall, St. Mary's) 
OPEN TO ALL ND·SMC STUDENTS 
Marantz -Sony Harmon/Kardon-Pioneer-Crown 
at 

THE STEREO SCENE 
Wholesale Prices on HiFi Equipment & Accessories Fast Dependable Service II 
!t•xcrpt fair trade items) 
287-1400 ASK ABOUT MAXELL 
:1:1021\HSIIA. AVE.,·~ MILE PAST RIVER PARK THEATER 

MAC'S RECORD RACK $1 off 
Any 
REO SPEEDWAGON 
ALBUM 
288-1178 

A FULL SERVICE RECORD STORE 292-3 MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BEND, IND. 46615 
by Martha Fanning Staff Reporter 
Matthew Cockrell has been appointed the new Director of the Ombudsman Service,replacingJim Zorn. Zorn, who was named director last October, is being replaced due to his decision to participate in the Sophomore Year Abroad Program next years. 
Pat McLaughlin, Student Body President, made the appointement on the recommendation of the Ombudsman Steering Committee. The committee members are Tom Gibbons, Bill McLean, Charlie Moran, and Matt Cockrell. 
"Ideally, we would have a fresh­man as director who would be able to continue on for the next three years," commented Cockrell. 
Due to the limited amount of 
Sewell to Speak at 
St Mary 1 S
• by Pattie Cooney Contributing Editor 
Dr. Elizabeth Sewell, poet and author, has accepted an invitation to speak at the 128th Annual Commencement at St. Mary's College Saturday, May 17, 1975. This decision was announced at the St. Mary's Board of Regents' meeting on February 21. 
Sewell has been a frequent visitor to SMC, while serving on the faculty of Hunter College since 1971. Sewell teaches one semester at Hunter each year, and visits other colleges and universities during the reaminder of the year. She came to St. Mary's for two weeks last spring, at which time she lived on campus and met with students and faculty. Sewell first came to the college in 1973 to deliver a lecture in the American Scene cultural series. 
Sewell's published critical works include The Structure of Poetry, The Field of Nonsense, The Orchic Voice: Poetry and Natural History and The Human Metaphor. Her novels include The Dividing of Time, The Singular Hope and Now Riess Thyself; and two books of poetry, poems, 1947-1961, and Signs and Cities. 
Sewell's teaching experience includes positions at Vassar College, Fordham University, Ohio State University, California State College and the University of North Carolina. She also served as chairman of Bensalem, the ex­perimental college at Fordham University in 1967-69. 
Born in India of English parents, 
Sewell holds B.A., M.A., and Ph. 
time available to introduce a new director, the Steering Committee decided it would be best to ap­point, someone who was already experienced. 
Bill McLean, former director, stated, "Matt was the most logical choice. He has had 
iff' 
\ 
MATTHEW COCKRELL has been appointed the new Ombudsman director. He replaces Jim Zorn. 
(Photo by Paul Joyce) 
through his divisions and his roommates were in other divisions." 
Cockrell has been an Om­budsman for the past 3 years. During this time, he was the head of the Community Relations Divisions, Internal Affairs and during the past semester, head of Operations. 
"I feel that these positions have given me a real working knowledge of the branches of the Ombudsman service, so I was familiar with the different bran­ches," stated Cockrell. "I know most of what's going on and can hopefully deal with any problems that arise in the divisions," he added. 
Cockrell views the role of the director as being "in charge of making sure that the service functions for the best interests of the students. I handle most of the relations with the ad­minstration and the university staff," he continued. 
"If a student or students have a problem it's our job to see if the situation can be made clearer and a solution brought forth with the students in mind." Cockrell con­cluded. · 
The new director explained that new programs are usually initiated by the ombudsman and when it becomes feasible they are turned over to agencies thatt they should be under. 
"The 'Quickie' is an example of this," he commented. "Our ser­vice started it and now it is being turned over to the Social Com­mission. They didn't start the project because of lack of man­power. Now they are in a better position than they were previously to handle the operation," he remarked. 

circumstances, but Pastore told the Senate Judiciary subcom­mittee on constitutional amend­
Regular NAZZ open

ments that the tumultuous 
i Sat Night Music· Upstairs !• events of 1974 could be repeated. 
Friday & Saturday 

• b • 
Pastore's proposed amend­
: y Triad : 
ment would provide for Con­
at 10:00 p.m. 

• d :
gress to set a date for a special 
: We & Thurs • Members Only :
presidenlial election in the event an appointed vice presi­
! Fri & Sat • Guests Allowed :
dent became president with Sponsored by Student Govt. 
more than 12 months to serve. 
: f$1.00 Guest Fee\ !
• ••••••••••••••••~ •••••••••••••••••••••J••••••• 


l 
Sponsored by Social Commission 1 PITCHER OF BEER I
·--------------------------­
I $1.25 .(WITHTHJSCOUPON) IQuickie service transferred I HAPPY HOUR 2 pm I
DAILY -6pm 
MOST MIXED DRINKS

by Bob Brink over to the Social Commission explained Moran, "is that we took 
.so II 
GLASS OF BEER 

Starr Reporter according to Charles Moran, the Quickie on an experimental .2s I 
PITCHER OF BEER The Ombudsman Service is special projects and services of-basis to show it could be done and 1.so I ficer for the Ombudsman Service. to show how to operate it. But the VIEW
currPntly in the process of tran­NEAR sfPrring sponsorship of the Quickie "The reason for the change," · Ombudsman should not be OUR RIVERPARK II 
r---------Another Continental Discount Fare:------, 
STAND BY TO SAVE 

TO LOS ANGELES 
You come out ahead because we really move our tail. 
Believe it or not, our L.A. Standby Discount Fare on selected flights is only $104. And we have Standby Discount service to Denver for $60, saving you $25 off Coach fare. 
Then there's Night Coach Discount to Los Angeles for $116, or $30 less than Coach. 
We're also the only airline with Economy Discount service throughout our route system-another way to save, just for skipping a meal. Some sample fares: 
LO~_ANGELES ____ $13_1__'§_/Sj~~l~---­DENVER OR COLOBADQ SP~R=-1---'-NG-=-S=-------=$--,7~5:--_-=-'SA..,-7VE $10 
ALBUQUERQUE___~$ 89 SAVE $10 KANSAS CITY --------"'$ __ql___~~YE $ '4 SAN FRANCISCO, 
PORTLAND OR $131 SAVE $15 SEATTLE Remember too, a travel agent costs you nothing extra, so 
call one for the good word on all our Discount Fares. Or call us 
at 686-6500. At spring break or any time, we can probably get 
you where you live, for less. 

All fares are one way and include tax; airport security surcharge extra. 
We really move our tail for you. CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 

The Proud Bird with the Golden Tail. 
._. .. ,. , : .·c-··.c·:H:·:H((•/'<'~((</ 
__________---_--_-_----------------------------------~~~·~··~··_r__c~·--~~---:.....r~~·-·---------'~~~,~~t'~,c~~~<v~(;~;(~~~~~~~~l~(~('<~~~~~·i~~~--------------------------~
1-
,· .-·-;·,-. ,J~·.·~;·!··.j ~~:·:,: ~-' 1.,., 

On this OpPration: Brainstorm, any ideas regarding policy, are thPy J"t>strictt•d to the policies of the Ombudsman Service or can I suggrst a changr in the policies of Student Union? 
The ideas on policy as well as those concerning all of the other categories are not limited to the Ombudsman Service. Ideas on policy for the University, Student Government, H.P.C., or any other organization are welcome. 
\\'lwn will tht> rxam scht>dules be out so I can confirm my reser­vations to grt home? 
The faculty will be notified of the exam schedule in the Notre Dame report number 12 which they will receive soon. They in turn will notify the students. However for those of you who are impatient there is a copy of the exam schedule posted in the Registrar's Of­rice. 
Is thf'rr any way Wf' can get the dining halls to play WSND during mn· mt>als? 
If you want the dining halls to play WSND during your meals just ask them to on one of their feedback cards and if there is a big Pnough resonce to it they will be happy to. 
Who is in chargf' of the "Quickie'"? 
Up until the last run <on February 14) the "Quickie" was being run by the Ombudsman Service, now it is being taken over by the Social commission of the Student Union. Incidentally, the "Quickie" will he running this Friday. 
. I 

providing ongoing services. Now 
Sx7 TV THEATRE

that we have shown it is possible we are turning it over to the Social 
Commission, which should be 
responsible for this type of ongoing ~---------·--------------~ 
service." 

Anyone interested in being 
The transition process has , been taking place slowly over the 
Editor-in-Chief of Dome '76 
past several runs. On this weekend's schedule the Social 
should submit their name to
Commission is providing 75 per­cent of the work force. 
The Editor in the Dome office,
The Quickie has not been in use on several of the past weekends 
3rd Floor LaFortune,

·· because of the many recent social events on campus. "The purpose of 
by Friday, Feb. 28.

the Quickie is to provide safe transportation to Michigan on I-weekends when there is no major 
SPECIAL WEEKEND· ROOM RATES FOR
social events going on, such as Mardi Gras or the Wacky Winter 
NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
Weekend," Moran said. 

Norb Schickel, director of the Social Commission , said "We 
$695 
have not decided on any major 
S Single occupancy
changes. For now we will continue 
-


to run the Quickie the way the 
No Notre Dame identification required, just
Ombudsman has been running it." 
mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. 
Lonnie Luna will be the director of the shuttle for the Social 
HICKORY INN MOTEL

Commission, while Patti Romano will act as the Publicity Director. 
50520 U.S. 31 North

Any halls interested in using 
South Bend, Indiana 46637

buses for transportation to Michigan for hall parties should 
(219) 272-7555 contact Lonnie Luna at 1688. Luna 
3 miles North of the Tollroad mentioned, however, that the halls should not set a date for the party 
Ca~le T.V., Air Cond.J _PhoQ.eS. 
until the Social Commission has 
Send this ad to your parents
obtained the buses . 

r·,'
v·

.:)~~ ':' --.-,1\j~~: ·'~..f .....:.,.,,~, ., 
n~~:Unesaav, t-eoruary 26, 1975' the observer 11 
Primary this Monday 
NICKlE'S
Candidates announce,platforzns 


(continued from page 5) 
Pat McLaughlin has spent most of his term regaining ground lost by student government during 
King Kersten's "oligarchic" reign. We believe that the high calibre of Pat's work has earned the respect of both the Student Affairs Office and the Board of Trustees. To better utilize this newly acquired attitude and extend it to include Fr. Burtchaell and Fr. Hesburgh we feel certain actions must be taken by whomever students elect as their next SBP. 
All four branches of student representation <Student Govern­ment, Student Union, HPC and SLCl must engage in a serious attempt to coordinate their ser­vices and committees in the best interests of students in general. Duplication in responsibilities and competition for students in general. Duplication in respon­sibilities and competition for student help has made Fr. Burt­chaell's job that much easier. 
What student wouldn't become 
apathetic watching how easily our 
provost plays upon our 
disorganization? To become more 
AMC also cuts prices 
DETROIT <UPI) -American 
Motors Corp. Tuesday followed 
the lead of General Motors and 
cut prices by as much as $198 
on some models to spur sales 
once cash rebates end Friday. 
AMC announced the action to 
prevent a post-rebate sales 
slump in March just as the 
industry reported mid-February 
new car sales missed matching 
last year's level by only 210 
cars-one-tenth of one per cent. 
It was the closest automakers 
have come to matching a year­
ago pace since the 1975 models 
were introduced last fall. 
Ford and Chrysler are 
believed considering the same 
moves to lower prices and head 
off any sales drop once the $200 
to $600 rebates end. Rather 
than actually cutting prices, 
which the auto companies say 
they can't afford, they are 
removing some standard equip­
ment and leaving it up to the 
customer to decide if it's really 
needed. 
ND-SMC THEATRE 
MEDEA 
Wed. & Thurs. February 26 & ~ 8:00P.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium $1.50 Stud-Fac-Staff Phone: 284-4176 

the next week: (1) come to Wednesday night's meeting at LaFortune--even if you only come for the first fifteen minutes. It's 

PRESENTS
the best way to show your concern that's presently available. (2) Don't rely on posters, WSND broadcasts or articles like these in Tht> Obst>rver to formulate your opinion of the candidates. Try to meet them or get to someone who knows them personally to find out if they're the kind of student you would like to see representing you 

60 HOURS to administrators and members of the Board of Trustees. (3) Finally, 
and I can't stress this pointeffective, student government enough, please vote for the can­

OF THE LOWEST BEER
leaders must learn how to play didate of your choice on March 3rdProvost Burtchaell's own game and March 5th. There is no morebetter than he does. 
concrete way to tell the ad­

PRICES IN THE COUNTRY!
ministration that you're concerned 
I would like to ask the students of about the way students are treated 
I
Notre Dame to do three things in I 
on this campus. 

MON, TUES, WED: NOW APPEARING 
NOON-MIDNIGHT 
CASEY JONES & THE 

THURS, FRI, SAT:
CANNONBALL EXPRESS 
AND 

NOON -8:00 P.M. LISTEN 
PLUS THE BEST HALF-POUND CHARCOAL GRILLED HAMBURGERS IN TOWN 
-._ ',
~Sfzula ~ nile Clut 
. NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS 
011 U.S. 31 MtwNn llies. So. Bend-frN P•rkin,-683-4350. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 



WANTED 
Need ride East (Toledo) weekend of Feb. 28. Call Ann, 4264. 
Ride needed to Chicago Feb. 28 afternoon or evening. Mary, 4543.
MICHIGAN STREET 

Need ride to Southwest Indy this weekend · 3135, Mark. 
Ride wanted for two South . Ft. Lauderdale. Call 8143. 
Ride wanted for two to N.Y.C. area
ADULT THEATRES 

for spring break. Desperate! Call Donna at 6906. 
Ride needed to Boston area Feb. 26­
28. Tom, 287-6310. Costs and driving. 
Ride needed to Milwaukee Feb. 28. Call Tim, 8360. 
* 2 FILMS 

Two riders needed to western DC suburbs for spring break. $40 round­trip. Call 3693 or 3694. 
FOR SALE 
* BOOKSTORE 

Bell & Howell receiver, small Ad­vent speakers, $180. John, 1192. 
Garrard zero-100 with walnut base and dust cover -$130. Call Larry, 
6864. 
* LIVE FLOOR SHOW 

Set of Wilsoo blue-ridge golf clubs. Right hand. 4 woods, 8 irons. Good condition. For person 5'9" -5'11". 
Asking $120. Call Mike, 3134.
1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 

Two Sansui AS-300 speakers 12" -3 way systems. List: $150 ea. Ex­cellent sound at $200 or best offer for the pair. Call Tim, 6756, 8818.
CALL 282-1206 FOR INFORMATION 

1974 Camaro -automatic, power, 
•
• • 
!STUDENT
• i• 
UNION 
• 
PRESENTS:· 

•
• 
•
• 
: AI Pacino in: 
•
• SERPICO 
•
•
• 
AM-FM, AC, custom interior. 232­8600• 
• NOTICES 
• 
• Groucho fans! Now 4 Marx Bro. books in stock at Pandora's Books. 602 N. St. Louis
• 
at So. Bend Ave. 
• Observer Staff: 
• 
Remember the old saying: "All• work and no PRAY makes Jack a 
dull boy."
• 
"Mom" 
• 
Accurate, fast typing. Northeast 
section of South Bend. Reasonable.• · Phone 232,0746. ·
• 
Money? Morrissey Loan will lend up to $150 for 30 days, 1 day waiting
1

· period. Basement of LaFortune, . ·!daily, 11:15 to 12:15. 
' .• 

GoODTICkETS FOR THE MARCH
FRI., FEB. 28 : 

12 JOE WALSH CONCERT AT THE 
A.C.C. ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET 
•
SAT., MARCH 1: 

'OFFICE.
•
1 

GOOD TICKETS FOR THE FRANKIE ·VALLI & THE FOUR SEASONS CONCERT MARCH 8 AT 
7, 9,11 p.m. ! 
ENGIN. AUDIT.:· 

MORRIS CIVIC ARE NOW ON 
SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION
$1 : . TJC.K£'t___OFFICE. ALL SEATS RESERVED. 
• 
Western Electronics 24 hr. TV service. 1530 Western Ave. 282· 1955. 
S.H.A.R.E. Hotline phone, 4311, rm. 15, Holy Cross Hall, S.M.C. Com­pletely confidential. 8-12 nightly. 
Overseas Jobs . Australia, Europe, 
S. America, Africa. Students, all professions and occupations. $700 . $3000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing. Free in­formation. Transworld Research Co., Dept. F3, P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera, CA. 94925. 
Tune-up specialist, 2 barrel car­buretor overhaul, $24.95, parts In· eluded. 232-1796. 
Medical, Dental, and Law School applicants: perhaps we can help you get accepted. Box 16140, St. Louis, MO, 63105. 
Disciplinary action hanging over your head? Call Student Govt, 7668. We may be able to help. 
FOR RENT 
Now renting 2 to 5 bedroom homes. Completely furnished for Sept. Call 234-9364. 
Five and six bedroom houses for rent. Leases run Sept. thru May. Excellent condition within 'h mile of campus. 233-2613. 
a 6 mo. sublease of a $175.00 1­bedroom apt. for only $130. If In· terested, call Bonnie, 232-5853. 
Furnished apt., second floor. Gas heat furnished. 289-6307, 234-0596. 
LOST AND FOUND 
l.ost: Law student notebook (blue) with invaluable notes. Lost at South Dining Hall Monday p.m. Call Steve, 3705 between 5:30 and 6:00. REWARD. 
Found: calculator. Call to identify. 289-3369. 
PERSONALS 
SUMMER ill EUROPE: Uni-Travel Charters at less than V2 · reg• economy fare. 65 day advance payment required. U.S. Gov't ap· proved. TWA~PanAm-Transavia 707's. Call toll free, 1-800-325-4867. 
Melissa: Regarding your rather large order for 3 cases of pickles for YO~Jr "new found" craving. The order is due to arrive by the end of the week. 
H.J. Heinz a11d M.J. Vlasic 
I read in Monday's Observer of the demise of my dear friend, Dave Rust, alias "late typist." My heart aches for those cherished memories of that fateful encounter In Munich. 
R.I.P. dear David, "Molly" 
Mr. Clean, Come give Sue Bailey a "rubdown" for her birthday. Call 1346: 
To Jean Ann:· Hapry Birthday! 

Despite it all, cagers romp. 98-61 

ONE OF THE FORTIES: Toby Knight (43) hits for two of his 22 points against Fordham last night. Adrian Dantley (44) had 28 points, while Dave Batton (45) had 12. Bill Paterno added 19. 

Pro hockey-NO style 
:;:::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::;:::;:::::::::::::::;:::::::;:::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::: 
Didsbury, Alberta may not be the hotbed of professional hockey stars that Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario is, but two Notre Dame graduates are working on those reputations. One to improve the reputation of Didsbury, the other to maintain the present state of affairs in Sault Ste. Marie. 
This past Sunday afternoon at Chicago's International Amphitheatre, the Chicago Cougars took on the Vancouver Blazers in a World Hocky Association matchup. Representing the Blazers, Notre Dame, and Didsbury was left wing Larry Israelson. Ray DeLorenzi held the fort for the Blazers, the Irish,and Sault Ste. Marie. 
Though the Blazers dropped a tough 2-1 decision to the Cougars, mainly on the play of another rookie, Gary MacGregor and veteran goal tender Dave Dryden, both Larry and the Hawk didn't go unnoticed on the ice. 
In almost a carbon copy of the Israelson-Conroy-DeLorenzi second line under Lefty Smith, Israelson and DeLorenzi were on the same second line for Blazers' coach Joe Crozier, centered by leading Vancouver scorer Hugh Harris. . 
Larry has been up with the Blazers for over four months, having played a regular shift for 24 games. His contribution to the team is similar to his play, wearing the ND blue and gold. Israelson plays smart, headsup hockey, skating his wing alley consistently. 
If it were not for the excellent play of Dryden, Israelson might have increased his scoring total of 6 goals and 7 assists. Larry had one slapshot and two tipins on goal, but Dryden was able to come up with saves. 
"As a senior could move the puck alone, but as a rookie I'm sort of an underdog," explained Israelson. "The pros' game demands more headsup play, has better goaltending, better passing. Basically as a rookie I have to do lots of checking, and hope for the openings. . 
The major adjustment has been in developing some sort of consistency in my game," continued the rookie left wing, "the pros demand this consistency so that the coach can knowwhattype of game you're going to play in each contest." 
My years at Notre Dame have been most important to my shooting skills and fundamentally the up and down type of positional play," added Israelson. "I'm playing with the best of the collegiate ranks and the best out of the junior ranks, so mistakes are much more costly." 
Sunday's game agains the Cougars was only the Hawk's second WHA contest. DeLorenzi suffered a broken collarbone January 14th in a ('<>ntral Hockey League game against the Omaha team. 
Haymond was famous at Notre Dame around the WCHA for his speed, his slapshot. and his hitting. None of that has changed. Ask Rosaire l'aiemont or Daryl Maggs of the Cougars what it felt like to get decked by a urook." 
"Teamwise everything about the game is tighter," commented DeLorenzi. "Games with the Blazers are a lot faster than the action in the CPntral League. The games are not wide openlike in college, games are decided by one or twogoals. 
"I've had to adjust to playing tight positional play, switching and ad­justing my movements as the flow of play goes." 
The life styles of these highly paid professional hockey athletes is decidedly different than the leisurely weekend jaunts of WCHA clubs. These conversations with Larry and Ray were conducted hurriedly in the twenty minutes between a post-game shower and their bus out to the airport for the next game in New England. 
Larry Israleson once answered the question of what is the difference between college and the pros rather deftly saying, "In the pros we don't have to carry our own bags.' 
Larry didn't mention that upon entering a pro locker room after a game, win or lose, a common occurrence is seeing players smoking and drinking. The sense of "teamness"; was also lacking, a part of collegiate sports that sometimes makes all the work and sacrifices worthwhile. 
But Larry Israelson and Raymond DeLorenzi have something the other Blazers don't. "What is pleasing to me besides their abilities as hockey 

... players is that both kids sit on that bench with Notre Dame degrees, one in civil engineering <Israelson) and the other in pre-medical studies <DPLorenzil," remarked Blazer coach Joe Crozier. I<:nough said, Joe. 
by Greg ('organ Sports Editor 

As far as basketball games go, 
last night's went farther. 

Somewhere in between the 
opening tipoff, the amazing balsa­
wood rubberband-powered , 
aviation exhibition, the power 
failure, the "flagrant double 
personal foul" on both teams best 
player , the three technical fouls 
and the final buzzer, Notre Dame 
beat Fordham University. 

And if indeed it was Ara who 
eventually fixed the lights, For­
dham coach Hal Wissel might well 
have pleaded with him to stick with 
football since the final score lit up 
bright and clear in favor of the 
Irish 98-61. As a result Notre Dame 
upped its record to 17-8 and kept its 
tournament hopes very much 
alive. 

Fordham, on the other hand, 
went through more perils than the 
proverbial Pauline in losing its 
tenth game in 23 outings. 

First of all, the Rams arrived at 
the convo without any uniforms, 
and when the suits arrived at the 
last moment the lights in the 
dressing room, rather ominously, 
went out. The Fordham team 
members wandered on down to the 
locker room used by the "regular" 
students and dressed for the game. 
After that, though, they 
proceeded to get their socks blown 
off anyway. 

With four minutes gone the Irish 
had a 10-2 lead and never looked 
back. Before the half ended, they 
had extended that lead to '1:1, 54-'l:/. 
Digger Phelps, "new" starting 
lineup wreaked havoc on the 
visiting Rams from the opening 
tap. Phelps started Adrian 
Dantley <number 44), Toby Knight 
(43), Dave Batton (45), Bill 
Paterno (55l and Jeff Carpenter 
OOl. And if jersey numerals 
mean anything, Digger ought to 
dress his best ten in uniforms 4()-49.. 
In the first half, Dantley, Knight 
and Batton had 48of the Irish 54 
points and for the game accounted 
for 62 of the final 98. 

But other than jersey 
numerals, Phelps had a better 
reason for the new faces. "We 
expected them to play a zone," 
explained Digger, "and we wanted 
our best zone team in the game. 
Dayton will play a zone defense on 
us too, so we'll probably go with 
the same starting lineup against 
them Saturday." 

Wrestlers set for NCAAs 
by Rich Odioso 

With · the dual meet season 
completed all that remains for 
Coach Fred Pechek's Notre Dame 
wrestlers is the NCAA tournament 
which gets underway Friday and 
Saturday with the Eastern 
Regionals at Penn State. 

The Irish will send seven to ten 
wrestlers to University Park with 
the 142 and 15o-pound weight 
classes given the best chance to 
produce Notre Dame qualifiers for 
the Nationals at Princeton on 
March 13-14-15. Freshmen Pat 
McKillen and Pat Landfried have 
combined for a 22-8-2 record at 142 
with the Notre Dame represen­
tative to be determined this week 
in practice. With 14 wins this 
season 150-pounder Dave Boyer 
has run his career record to 5o-19-5 
tying AI Rocek and Ken Ryan's 
career victory mark. If Boyer 
doesn't break the record in the 
regionals, the junior from Lake 
Orion, Mich. will have all of next 
year to do so. 

The 14-11 dual mark the Irish 
recorded this year sets a school 
mark for victories and other 
records broken include Dan 
Heffernan in takedowns, Mike 
Kemp in escapes and John Dowd 
with 37 points in a match against 
Spring Arbor. 

Last week Notre Dame beat 
Akron 21-14 before losing to John 
Carroll 31-3. McKillen at 142 was 
the only double Irish winner. 

Had it not been for the "side and proceeded to open up a 42 point 
shows" the first half might have lead. Toby Knight, who finished 
been a touch dull. At 8: 36, after with 22 points and Paterno who had 
Fordham had taken a timeout, a 19, were the main contributors for 
student in the west end bleachers the Irish during the final twenty 
launched a balsa-wood airplane minutes. Dantley was ejected with 
powered by a plastic propeller and 18: 49left in the game and 28 points 
a rubberband which made a cross-1 along with Fordham's Darryl 
convo flight that Orville and Brown when he and Brown had 
Wilbur would have been mighty some sort of confrontation un­
proud of. Unfortunately the plane derneath the Irish basket. 
remained grounded for the rest of "When Brown and Dantley were 
the game. thrown out of the game, I know 
At 7:22 a fuse blew and the lights that a punch wasn't thrown by
and scoreboard went out. The time either player," said Wissel. 
is important to note since the "There was probably a foul on the 
power failure resulted in the first play, but the penalty dido 't fit the 
press box assist for assistant SID situation for either ballplayer."
Bob Best. When the lights blinked "I can't say anything about it," 
off, Best phoned down to the table answered Dantley.
that the official time remaining "Nothing happened on my part," 
was 7:24. said Brown, "ask Dantley about it. 
In the meantime, the crowd If he's not talking, let it rest at 
chanted, "Ara, fix the lights! Ara, that. All I know is that I didn't do 
fix the lights." Parseghian, who anything at all and I'm sitting on 
was seated at the scorer's table, the bench with 18 minutes left to 
might have been able to help. "I play." 
smiled at first," said Ara, "but Brown, the Rams' biggest and 
then I turned to Roger Valdiserri best player left the game with only 
and asked him if I should, but he eight points. But the Fordham said I'd better not." cause was more than hopeless at 
At any rate, the first half that point, and with 5:13 
progressed with Dantley getting remaining, a free throw by Ray
his 25th point of the game at the Martin gave the Irish a 92-50 lead. 
buzzer. There was no buzzer Notre Dame was outscored 11-6 in 
though, since the power was still the final five minutes and just 
gone, and actually there was no couldn't crack the century mark. 
time left either since the official Nonetheless, the 98-61 final score 
clock had been started at 7:24 was merely academic. 
instead of 7:22. Chalk up an assist "It was a big win," added 
for Best. Digger. "We're one step closer. 
We have Dayton on Saturday, and The Irish showed the same then we can start worrying about starting lineup in the second haH the NC'AA tournament." 

IH cage tourna:ment down to final eight 
by Fred Herbst 
Powerhouses Pangborn I and Off-Campus III square-off at nine Eight teams moved a step closer in what looks to be the interhall to the Interhall Basketball game of the year. Off-Campus III, 
championship as playoff action 
led by Frank Allocco and Mike continued this past week. Bonifer, enter the game with an 
Of the 52 clubs that played this 
unblemished record as does 

season, only Grace I, Keenan I, off­Pangborn I. campus III, Pangborn I, The Quad finals will be played
Cavanaugh I, Off-Campus VII, Off­next Tuesday night at the ACC. Campus II and Dillon I have survived thus far in the double elimination playoff system. ND 16, unranked 
In last Tuesday's games, Stanford topped Zahm and Sorin I in latest polls defeated Morrissey I. In Sunday ~ night's games, Dillon I knocked off AP Holy Cross 40-35, Off-Campus II 
1. ~41) .............:1&-0 94t beat Sorin I 53-45, Cavanaugh I t . . . . . . . . . . . . ..2&-3 7'9fl l Loulavtlle . . . .. lll-2 fl33
defeated Grace IV 53-44 and Off­
4. KetltDCkJ . . . :!6-3 01Campus VII rolled over Stanford 5. UCLA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... 2&-3 824 63-50. l II~ . . . . . ....2&-3 47n 
7. N. Carolllla State . . IH 405

Dillon I used its unique four 
I. Alabama . . . . . .. 28-3 379

guard line-up to beat Holy Cross. I. ArUillla State . . .2&-3 2!11 Decpite poor shooting and being II. l'eMsylvanla... . . . -~ 195 
11. Ctnnaon. . . ·~ 11'1

out rebounded by the taller Holy 
12. S. Calllomla . . . . . . . .. IH 140

Cross squad, Dillon managed to U. ~1gbloll . . . . . I11-1 116 control the tempo of the game by 14. NortiJ Carolina .. 1&-7 n 
15. Texu-El Paso . . .. 1"-4 61

using a rugged three quarter court 
11. Not!-. Dalllt' . . . llh'! :\4 

press. Captain Larry Jurkens 17. Oregon State.. . 1~9 ~ 18. Pan Amt'r1can 21·2 47
praised Tom Carey, Paul Martin, 
tt. Aruou . .JR-5 :1.1

Greg Zips, and Kevin Doherty for :11. Wasbington 111-1 30 their outstanding play in the victory. 
UPI

Bill Singer's 12 points led the I. Indiana (41) ~ 4JQ
balanced scoring attack of 
2. llaryland (I) 111-3. :l'li

Cavanaugh I in their win over 3. UCLA lll-3. .100 Grace IV. Gus Buhrlage and Greg 4. Louls\1Jie 2&-2 29R 
5. Kentocky 2&-3 1911

Garcia each chipped in with 10 
I. N.C. St. 111-1. IJO points. Cavanaugh employed an · 7. (~) Arizona St. 2tl-3 .117 
effective press, led by Kevin Ford 7. (~) Alabama 2tl-~ 117 
I. Matqllf'lle 2t).3 . . 112

and Jim Byrnes, that . forced 
.10. Oregon St. 1&-9. . . . 32 numerous turnovers. Walt Bak, 11. Texas-El Paso . 1"-4 11) 12 Sout.bem Cal lfHI
Pat Kennedy and Bill Igoe came :?"! 
13. Nortb CaroUna 1&-7 . I~

off the bench to keep Cavanaugh 14. Pennsylvania 20-4 1ft 
fresh and to spark the team. IS. Ck'11180n 15-ll. . ):; . II (t.le) Utah St. 111-~ .. 12
The Quad semifinals will be 
· II. ft.le) Nv~.·LV 20-4 . . . 12

played tonight in the ACC pit. At 18. (~) Arbona lli-5 . .. w six o-dock Cavanaugh I faces Off­lA. (t.le) New MeK. St. 111-5 . 10 
18. (t.le) Washington 1&-7 . 10

Campus VII. Off-Campus VII enters the game with a decided height advantage. Cavanaugh NBA leaders Captain Greg Garcia hopes to keep 
NEW YORK (AP) -Til<' !!COnnghis opponents off the boards and to lfoad!'rs.ln tile National Bask~tball Asso­contain their guards. Garcia also ctatlon lhroll!lh gai!N.'s of Sunday, t'eb. 
plans to utilize his bench to keep ;!3; 
FG FT Pis A~~ his team fresh. McAdoo. Ruff 7\16 ~ 2001 :14 0 At seven o·dock Grace I plays Barry. G.S. ~•• 3.12 11f.>4 :t.!.n Abdui-Jabbar. Mil. :I.'A 227 I~·J.'i 30. I
Kenna.~ I, to be followed at eight by Scott. Pilot'. !ill) 2:!0 13-t! 2!13 
Off-Campus II meeting Dillon. The Al1"bibald. K C .0. 514 4Kl IJIJ 24.~ Lanier. Del. IIIIi 201 I~ 24 3
Off-Campus II meeting with Dillon 
Raywood. Sea. 449 2-10 lilA 22.His a rematch of an earlier game Frazll'r, N.Y. 4117 :?at 124-'i :!:U 
that Off-Campus II won by ten Goodlicll, L.A. 4.11 :!:!3 1107 22.1 
Hayt>S, Wash. l\IQ 302 1340 22.0

points. 









