
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------.
(.I 
Oa The Inside 
Pornography 
... page 4 
Seals & Crofts 
... page 3 




serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Vol. IX. No. 75 Thursday, February 6, 1975 

Proposes post-Labor Day start 
Faculty Senate rejects calendar 
out and discussed by each faculty member and his 
Powell stated that it would be up to the individual
bv Don HPilllPJ' 
department chairman. is intended to be used primarily at 
department chairmen to decide what should be included 
Staff HPportPr 
the department level, though no limits were placed on its 
in the evaluation. "The chairman and his facultyTht• Faculty Senate unanimously passed last night a distribution. 
nwmbers should agree on the goals of the evaluation. Itn•solution favoring an academic calendar beginning after Heaetion of the Senate to the report was generally will be up to each department to reach eommonly un­Labor Dav for the fall semester. The Senate favored this negative. l~uestions were raised concerning the effect of derstood goals," Powell said.
starting ciate t•ven though it might mean reduction in the such self l'Valuations on both the department and Managemt>nt Professor William Sexton remarked thatlPngth of brl'aks within the fall semester. according to the l'niversit'i' levels. 
the success of the evaluation forms would depend onstatl'ment. The m<iin benefit of the self-evaluation reports. ac­continuous feedback from chairmen to faculty. "It is very Tlw decision to issue the motion. introduced by Prof. cording to Powell, would be the rapport they establish Important that the chairman provides constant help to the.Julian l'h•asantv resulted from a desire within the Senate between the department chairmen and the faculty faculty ml'mber." Sexton said.
to offer input ·into the calender decisiorr before it is nwmlwrs. 
"If there is not complete feedback, con::;tructiveness isfinalized. l\kmbers cited their lack of input into this issue Professor Harold Moore of the General Program not really possible," Sexton continued. "The facultylast ~·ear and felt that it was imperative to state their commmted. "The reports will only serve as an op­nwmber must know what to expect when time forYiews wdl before the February 11th Academic Council portunity for self deception between the individual faculty promotion arrives."
nwt•ting. nwmbers and their department chairmen." He termed 
l'nl\'Ost Evaluation Discuss!'d
l'leasantr:;, professor of Microbiology, stated, "We had the self evaluation as "a list of self-confessed sins." no opportunity for input on the calender last year, so we Final details were discussed for the facu!Ly referendum nnght takl' action now." ll"hich will be sent out on February 19th. It was announced 
I helil'Vl' that we r:;hould express an opinion for or that the resultsof the referendum will be published in the against starting before Labor Day and communicate our "\otn• na mt• Ht•JJort. .. The cover letter, the form, and the dt•cir:;ion to the Academic Council." General Program distribution of the ballots were also finalized. l'rofessor .John !.von said. The number of faculty l'ligible to vote on the items will 
\ Hher reasons !'or favoring the later starting date in­total approximately 739 according to official lists. The troduced during the discussion of the statement included deadline for return of ballots is February 26th. after which mconvenit•nce mcountered by faculty members with an l'ffort will be made through Senate representatives in ehildrPn still on summer vacation. It was also cited that t•ach department to reach those faculty who fail to return nom• of the original motives for the changing of the their ballots on time. calender. preventation of students leaving early for Tentative plans for a Provost Evaluation Form were hreakr:;, did not prove effective. The Senate approved any discussed by the Senate, but no final decisions were m•eessar~· rPduction in those breaks. made. The evaluation, which hinges on the outcome of 
referendum item number 6 asking faculty approval, will
llt'partnwnl Enlluations Suggt'sled 
offer faculty members the opportunity to evalutate the provost's actions of the last five years.
Dean Leo Corbaci and Professors Ray Powell and A motion postponing further discussion of thePhillip Gleason, who are members of a committee ap­Pvaluation until after tabulation of the referendum results pointed by the University Administration to draw up a \\"as passed by one vote. Many senate members believed Faculty Service and Self Evaluation Report, presented a that approval of the evaluation was certain. thus they felt tentative copy of their report to the Senate. 
that work on the details should begin before the completion Thl' rl'port. which is a self-evaluation form to be filled of voting. 
academic quality," Rathburn said "Butbv Bob Radziewicz through the 1974-75 academic year, while
Starr Heporter 
the number of women enrolling was up, the The inflatiOn that has plagued the U.S. 
-Observer lnsil)ht 
numbers of blacks and other minorities was economy since 1966 has dealt a stunning 
~hrinking. "he added.
blow to the financial securityof the teaching ''All administrators are worried about
difficult of years for budgeting has been to profession is becoming acquainte,!:l, there is 
profession; Notre Dame is no exception. 
give first priority to faculty compensation." even more gloom ahead, namely that this gradual shrinking enrollment.
The purchasing power of the faculty salary Academic programs which were once
"Our faculty has increased each year tuition costs between public and private
dollar has l'roded in the last three years, a thought to be interesting experiments are
through the 1960's, but since 1970 faculty size universities is growing wider and wider',"
reversal from the late 1960's when the now being discontinued,'' Rathburn con­at Notre Dame has not increased," the Rathburn said.
faculty was insulated from the effects of this tinued. "When that happens, it is possible
provost later said. "We have had to cut "There is a crucial need for funds from
inflation by frequent salary hikes. 
back on faculty hiring slightly to keep the public sector or the usual private for faculty members, even tenured faculty, 
who teach in these programs, to be no longer
.... 
compensations up," Burtchaell stated. sources to be given to private universities to
•• s 
continued in employment," the national
••. aJa,. 1 ~ , 
"All professions have lost in purchasing help them underwrite the continually rising 
............: ~ 
member of the AAUP surmised.
power in the last two years," Burtchaell costs of higher education. Tuitions are 
......... ......-r 
"Generally, around the country, the
said. To help counter the economic burden, going out of sight," he stated. "Continued 
academic profession is experiencing the
~~­
University President Fr. Theodore existence for some smaller universities is in
,, -............ 
most full-scale, all-iJut. depression ever,
Hesburgh announced a $600 cost-iJf-living question, in some cases," Rathburn pointed 
110 tlor:...,., 
supplement for full-time, continuing faculty out. worse than the one in the 1930's by far,'' 
Rathburn said. "Large, permanent en­
at the President's Faculty Meeting on Rathburn attributed this financial decline 
dowments are tied up in the stock market,~---October 9, 1974. to an overall drop in enrollment, par­
Indeed, a report on the economic status of and everyone knows what's happening
This academic year 1974-75, the Notre ticularly by t.he minorities. "If we can
the faculty at Notre Dame, prepared in there."
Dame faculty received a 10.1 per cent in­succeed in enrolling a decent perce.ntage of
March, 1974, by Prof. Thomas R. Swartz, "On one hand, people can't afford to go to
crease in compensation, including the $600 the minorities, including blacks and 
chairman of Committee Z, Notre Dame supplement. "I don't know of any other chapter of the American Association of university that has given that much of an 
University Professors <AAUPl, claims that increase," Burtchaell said. 
an erosion of real income during the "There aren't many salary schedules academic years 1972-73 and 1973-74 has put around the country that have been able toNotre Dame faculty "worse off handle an increase of that size. I believe the economically today than they were six r~ason for this is the determination of the years ago." 
administration to give the faculty topThis general conclusion can be demon­priority ," the provost added.
strated with two sets of data that the "There will be further compensationsUniversity prepares for the national office next year," Burtchaell stated. "Theof the AAUP," Swartz explained in the problem is that every expense we have,report. "These data sets are collected for increases with inflation, but only one-thirdall full-time faculty <teaching and research) of the income can be increased," he at Notre Dame," the report states. 
maintained.
"The real purchasing power associated ''That means that student fees, includingwith average salaries <that is, the amount of tuition, will go up at a higher rate thandollars bread can purchase), stated in 1967 faculty salaries. Times are difficult for alldollars, increased from $11,639 in the educational institutions, public and academic year 1968-69 to a high of $12,332 in private," Burtchaell said. "The reasons for the academic year 1971-72," the Committee this are that student fees contribute only aZ report states. "The 1972-73 average salary small portion of the institution's income and had a purchasing power of $12,142, while the endowments have now temporarilycurrent average salary has only $11,443 of diminished,' ' he stated.
purchasing power," it continues. The There are many outside factors that nowaverage full-time faculty salary for the place a demand on the finances ofacademic year 1973-74 was $15,654. 
educational institutions, which indirectly Faculty gets priority affect faculty salaries. Burtchaell noted Fr. James T. Hurtchaell, University that costs for fuel and maintenance have provost, also pointed out that "an item in significantly increased in the past few year. our budget which has gone up most in Prof. Paul Rathburn, board member of recent years is salary, especially faculty the national AAUP, expanded on the salaries. In fact, faculty salaries have in­financial crises facing institutions of higher 
T_RUSTY WALKING: Kathy Datzman and Bob Radziewicz, members of Frank
creased at a higher rate than that of other education. 
Zmk's ~nterpersonal Communicattions class had an exercise in trusting one another
University employees," Burtchaell said. "The January 13, 1975, issue of the Burtchaell, in a report to the Academic ('hronicle of Higher Education points out 
over th1s past weekend. Each member of a pair takes a turn leading the other--blind Council published Dec. 5, 1974, maintained that, 'in addition to already gloomy folded_--on _a 20 _minute w~lk. !he blind folded person learns to trust his partner by 
that "our most urgent concern in these most statistics with which the academic followmg d1rect1ons and hstenmg to descriptions of obstacles. 


the observer Thursday, .Februar 6, 1975 
warld briefs 
WASIIINGTON <UPI)--The Senate Wednesday confirmed the nomination of Edward H. Levi to be the new attorney general. 
WASIIINGTON <UPI)-The Senate Wednesday gave final congressional approval to a bill blocking President Ford's attempt to raise food stamp prices at least until the end of the year. 
AlmlS ABABA IUPil-The Ethiopian government poured thousands of troop reinforcements into actiori Wednesday against Eritrean rebels around Asmara. The exodus of foreign nationals from the beleaguered city picked up speed. 
MIAMI ( llPI)--Chesty Morgan, a blonde stripper with a 73-inch bosom, let it all hang out at the 79th Street Burlesque and got busted. Police said the 34-year-old Chesty, whose real name is Lillian Wilczowski, was arrested for "exposing parts of her body in a manner intended to arouse the sexual desire of onlookers." 

an c:ampus t:aday 
4:00 p.m.--lecture, "oxygen relateed center and kcl crystals," con. rom. of rad. lab. 
4:30 p.m ... colloquium, "topics of deformation" by dr. james mulshur of yale, rm. 226, comp. cen. 
6 -12 p.m ... mardi gras, gambling galore, stepan, 75 cenis at door. 
6:30 p.m.--basketball, NO vs. SMC, ace 
7:00 p.m.--poor party, "splash," smc senior pool party, regina pool. 
7:30 
p.m.--meeting, nd sports car club, 1-d Iafortune. questions, call 8773. 

7:30 
p.m.--lecture, "preparatory lecture on transcendental mediation,''medaleva, rm 249 

7:30 
p.m.--lecture, "the archeologist and his paradigm", lib. aud. 

7:30 
p.m.--symposium, "integration, separation, immigration perspectives on liberation," black cultural arts cen. 

7:30 
p.m.--lecture, "thomas mann" by prof. grosser, regina aud. 


8:00 p.m.--recital, faculty plano recital by dana spencer, little theatre. 
8:30 p.m ... fournament, "pinball wizard tournament," flanner gameroom. 
Search to begin soon for new dean of Law School 
by Val Zurblis 
"It is not prescribed that way in 
Starr Heporter 
the manual, I do so," the provost 
Search will begin soon for a new said. dean of the Notre Dame Law No search committee is being School to replace Dean Thomas L. formed. Search committees are Schaffer who will resign this reserved for locating new deans summer, according to University for the University colleges and Provost Fr. James Burtchaell. freshman year of studies, ac­
Burtchaell said he will consult cording to Burtchaen. The search with the faculty of the law school for the Jaw school dean resembles on selecting the new dean. He will the procedure used for appointing then make a recommendation to department ehairmen. University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh who will appoint the new 
The Observer is published dally 
during the college semester except
dean. No students are involved in 
vacations by the stuoents of the
the selection process. 
University of Notre Dame Md St. Mary's College. Subscriptions
Burtchaell will also send letters 
may be purchased tor $9 per
to members of the Law School 
semester ($16 per year) from ·The 
Advisory Council and the Notre 
Observer Box' Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Dame Law Asssociation, all of 
whom are lawyers and ND 
465.56.
graduates. 
In the MINI-MALL at TOWN & COUNTRY Shopping Center 
ALL SKI CL-OTHING 



25% OFF 

SPECIAL PACKAGES AVAILABLE 


Chicago selected 

as location for Senior Class Ball· 
Chicago's Sheraton-O'Hare Hotel is the site for next month's Senior Class Ball. After extensive research in the South Bend area, the Senior Ball Committee could find no adequate facilities at a closer location. 
Noting that the committee was searching for "a special place for such a special event," Senior Class Secretary Joe Henderlong ex­plained the reasons for scheduling the formal in Chicago. "We called and visited over a dozen places in and near South Bend, but they were either booked up or too small to accommodate a worthwhile number of seniors," he said. 
A nearby facility would have limited the number of guests to 150 couples, while the Sheraton can accommodate up to 500 couples. Henderlong also explained that several of the local places were rundown and unattractive. 
Ginny Gibbs, another committee member, noted that "we wanted something out of the ordinary" and the Sheraton-O'Hare will provide an excellent atmosphere. 
Henderlong contacted several hotels in Chicago and was able to obtain a very low figure from the Sheraton-O'Hare. The estimated cost of the ball will be ap­proximately $60 per couple, and all details should be finalized by early next week. This price includes a cocktail hour, dinner with wine, dance and hotel accomocations. The date selected is Saturday, March 15. 
Most couples are expected to opt for transportation by car, but.some bus service will be available. Those arriving Saturday afternoon will be able to check in and make use of all hotel facilities, including health spa and indoor pool, before the evening's events. The com­mittee is also looking into the possibility of providing optional flower and tuxedo service at the hotel. 
Bids for the formal will go on sale next Wednesday, February 12 and be available through Wed­nesday, February 19. A non­refundable $10 deposit will be collected at this time. The place and times for bid sales will be announced by next Monday. All ND and SMC seniors can purchase bids. 
The theme chosen for the weekend is "The Isle of Con­nemara:'Con.nemara is a legendary Irish land of happiness and unity that is found at the end of the rainbow. The committee selected an Irish theme mainly to tiein with St. Patrick's Day. 

Uncle Willie's Fatal Glass of Beer 
daily specials: 



J\1\on-Thurs 12-6 pm 
1 frosted mug 25¢ 
50¢ sandwiches: 
hamburgers 
cheeseburgers 
polish sausage 
kosher dogs 


TUESDAY & 
Pitcher Night SATURDAY pitcher $1.25 

Fri. & Sat. noon-6 pm 
hotdogs 10¢ 


These Specials Every Week 

... 
/'' 
t 
,:. 

~839 N. 5th 
Just 8 mi. north of the state line. Take U.S. 31 north to Niles, then north on highway Sl 3 
LOOKING FOR ... HOBBY & CRAFT SUPPLIES? 
-tc ENGINEERING PROJECTS -tc ARKIE & ART ASSIGNMENTS *MODEL TRAINS, CARS & PLANES 
we carry 
XACTO, DREMEL, ROCKETS, LIONEL& N GAUGE 
FULL UNE OF PLASTIC KITS. & BAlSA WOOD 
HOURS: MWF 9:30-7:30 T Th S 9:30 • 5:30 

343 LINCOLNWAY WEST 
SOUTH BEND 

BLOCKS WEST OF LASALLE 
PHONE 287-0180 


Thursday, February 6, 1975 the observer 
Committee reviews role of HPC 
by Bob Greenhalgh Staff Reporter 
The Hall President Council has organized a committee, con­sisting_ of six hall presidents, to determine more exactly what role the HPC should have in affecting university policies and to ascertain the main purpose for having an HPC. 
The new committee was formed immediately after Zahm Hall President Doug Cox informed the HPC Tuesday night that he wished to have his hall government ex­cluded from the Council. 
Cox said he is disappointed with the HPC because "it cannot en­force to any great extent its views on any important or relevant issues." Cox, who is now one of the six hall presidents on the new committee, is anxious to redefine the HPC's structure and purpose, and is hopeful that something can be resolved over the upcoming weekends, when the committee will be meeting. 
HPC has too little power 
Cox stated that he will advise his 
hall council to "just sit tight and 
wait." He and his followers 
believe that if the SLC and HPC 
could form a coalition, more could 
be accomplished through the ef­
forts of the two service 
organizations. 
Elton Johnson, president of 
Dillon Hall and another member of the HPC's self-assessment com­mittee, stated that even though he realizes that "the HPC doesn't have much power," still confirms that most presidents agree that they are doing exactly what they were designed to do: representing the student body as an advisory group. The HPC's constitution states that the HPC cannot exert power on university policies. 
Dissension on HPC 
Wendy Duffey, president of Walsh, however, claims that there is more dissension on the HPC than Johnson is ready to admit. "Maybe 50 per cent agree with Doug that the HPC has too little power," she said. 
"The Council lacks initiative," Duffey added. She explained that this is primarily due to the fact that the Council "has to do dirt jobs which inspire little motivation." 
Duffey was, however, "very disappointed" with the Cox decision to alienate Zahm from the HPC, and said that it was too radical a move on his part. She feels, however, that Cox was sincere in his move. 
other hall presidents expressed 
views concerning Doug's desire for 
Zahm 's succession from the HPC, 
but they did not wish to have their 
comments printed. 
Zahm Hall residents apparently 
were not informed about Cox's 
threat to exclude the hall from the 
HPC. 
Pat Shepherd, a section leader and member of the Zahm Council, said that most of the students of Zahm Hall did not find out about Cox's threat "until they read about it in the Observer. I guess Doug want to stir up some action, so the HPC can get moving," he, com­mented. 
Another member of the Zahm hall council, vice president Richard Evens, stated that the hall council was first informed of Cox's complaints of the HPC at a hall meeting. 
"Doug told us that nothing was 
happening at those meetings, and _that __ nothing was being 
accomplished there," Evans 
commented. He also stated that 
the hall council was impressed 
enough by Cox's statements to give 
him the go ahead to complain to 
the HPC of its inefficiency. 
Howl's reaction to Cox 
Bob Howl, chairman for the 
HPC, was upset at Cox's 
protestation. "His approach 
stunk," Howl said. "And many 
people were upset with the way he 
presented himself. It was un· 
founded and unnecessary the way 
Cox attacked the HPC." 
Howl stated that he outlined the 
rules and purposes of the HPC at 
the beginning of the school year, 
and that if there were any 
questions concerning the advisory 
position of the HPC, they should 
have been raised then. 
"Cox has been sitting down 
saying nothing all year," Howl 

St. Mary's juniors concerned about future of Augusta Hall 
by Mary Egan Staff Heporter 

Two members of a junior class committee interested in keeping Augusta Hall as a dormitory for self-supervised seniors will meet with Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, vice­president of student affairs, today to discuss the feasibility of the hall's continued use. 
Student Affairs personnel and the administration are presently evaluating the use of Augusta Hall as a senior dormitory. 
Augusta is now used as a residence hall for 47 self­supervised seniors, explained Marty Kabbes, hall life com­miSsiOner. These juniors are proposing the continued use of the hall." said Kabbes. 
If the continuance proposal proves satisfactory to Cannon, it will have to go through the Student Affairs Committee, the Student Affairs Commission, the Housing Department. and any other necessary channels, Kabbes continued. 
"About 35 to 40 juniors are in­
terested in living in Augusta next 
year." stated Joan McDermott, 
junior class president. In order for 
the proposal to be renewed, there 
must be 50 interested juniors, 
Kabbes explained. 
Juniors interested in living in 
Augusta• next year chose a com­mittee, headed by Fran Byrd, to work on the Augusta proposal, said McDermott. Other members of the committee are Jamie Massa, Patrice Rooney, and Mea Ferrara, McDermott added. 
Using Augusta as a senior residence hall was first proposed last year to Dr. Edward Henry, former SMC president, as an ex­periment, Kabbes said. Henry approved of the idea and the Board 
of Regents later passed the 
Augusta Hall experiment which made it a part of the college policy, added Kabbes. 
The only major problem with the proposal last year was getting the hall leased. The hall is the property of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
"We didn't know if they were going to lease it to us," Kabbes said. Kabbes expressed certainty that the convent would continue leasing the building. 
Kabbes added that there were no 
room pick problems, even though 
it was not known until rather late 
whether Augusta Hall would be in 
use. 
Kabbes feels positive about the 
present Augusta Hall 
arrangement. The residents "are 
the kind of people who can 
take care of themselves," she 
stated. She noted proof of this by 
the fact that many of the Augusta 
residents are on the Dean's List. 
One Augusta resident stated that 
she likes living in Augusta very much. Another noted the fact that it is often quiter than the other dorms. 
Any junior interested in living in Augusta next year should contact Fran Byrd or a committee member. 
Seals &Crofts set 
to play March 2nd . 
1 

OUR LOW LOW PRICED SUPER SPECIAL INCLUDES 
li L 
Warner Brothers recording artists Jim Seals and Dash Crofts will appear in concert at the Athletic & Convocation Center Sunday, March 2, at 7:30p.m. 
Tickets for the concert will go on sale Monday, Feb. 10, at the Student Union Ticket Office at 
11:30 a.m. and at the ACC Box Office at 9 a.m., according to Joe Russo, student union ticket office manager. 
Prices for the tickets are $6 for all chair seats and $5 for bleachers. 
Seals and Crofts first came to national prominence in the sum­mer of 1972 with the release of their first hit record "Summer Breeze." They made their first appearance at Notre Dame in Sept. 1972, at Stepan Center. 


said, "and it's just a stunt to get in the paper." Howl went on to say that Cox had no right to threaten to remove Zahm from the HPC. "He can only represent the hall, not decide its fate," Howl said. 
"I wish as much as anyone that the HPC had the power to vote on university issues, but as long as the administration keeps the HPC ft;,om voting on the university councils, there's not much we can do. The Student Life Council <SLCl is having the same woblems that the HPC is ex­periencing," Howl stated. 
Observer 
Reporter's Workshop 
featuring 
Richard Conklin Jay Kane Diane Wilson University Information Services 
7 p.m. Room 2-D Lafortune 
New reporters invited 

*SevenN1ghtsattheOceanfront CALL NT JI'IDAVTONA
I 
. HAWAIIAN INN HOTEL Toll free fA 
, *All Taxes ' 800·621•4006 ~A.CTJON : Weeldy BEER BLASTS IN ILLINOIS, CAL[ COLLECT CENTRAL Hostess Serv1ce w Daytona 
(3l2)286,7855 

GOOD THROUGHOUT MARCH ARRIVE ANY SATURDAY 
NICKlE'S 
NOW FEATURING 


POUND CHARCOAL GRILLED HAMBURGERS 
Serving from 11 :30 a.m. daily· 
the observer Thursday, February 6, 1975 
Pornography first topic 

BOYCOTT MEETING 
Lecture series opens Sundayf t 
by Kevin McCormick Staff Reporter 
Duncan Williams, noted author of Trousered Apes and Sick Literature in a Sick Society, will launch the Academic Crun­mission's spring lecture series with an appearance in the Library Auditorium on Sunday evening, February 9. 
Williams, speaking on por­nography and it's effect on American society, heads a lengthy list of prominent educators and authors who will be visiting the campus in the spring, according to Andy Bury, student academic commissioner. 
The series will also include Dr. Hans Morganthau lecturing on Tuesday evening, February 11. Professor Morganthau, considered by many the dean of international politics, presently holds teaching positions at the University of Chicago and City University of New York. He is also the author of several books, including the widely used text, Politics Among Nations. 
Beginning on Monday, February 17, and continuing through Thursday, February 20, a Government Lecture Festival will be held, entitled "Separation of Powers in the Wake of 
Watergate." 
In addition to guest speakers, two members of the Notre 'Dame faculty will deliver lectures. 
A general discussion session, led by Dr. Morton Diamond, a presidential advisor and Woodrow 
Onassis suffering muscle disease 
ATHENS (UPil -Greek shipping magnate Aristotle Onassis, suffering from a muscular disease, was put in an oxygen tent Wednesday because of difficulty in swallow­ing and breathing, friends of his family said. 
The same sources said Onassis, stricken with myas­thenia gravis which debilitates the muscles, was fighting for his life with his wife, Jacque­line Kennedy Onassis, and his daughter Christina at his bedside. 
An official family spokesman, however, said Onassis has influenza and showed some improvement Wednesday.
"Mr. Onassls showea some improvement today and if necessary we can always fly him to the best hospital for his case," said Ioannis Georgakis, 
a  medical  professor,  close  
friend  and  legal  adviser  of  
Onassis.  

Georgakis said the 69-year-old multimillionaire caught a cold a few days ago, complicated by a virus infection, "but he does not seem to be in danger." 
Dr. Isidor Rosenfeld, a New York heart specialist who flew from New York Monday with Mrs. Onassis, left Greece Wednesday, according to the 
receptionist of the suburban hotel where he stayed during his brief visit. He left Onassis in the care of four Greek physicians, family friends said. 
Flanner pinball seeks~ wizard 
Prizes valued at $150 total will be up for grabs tonight at 8:30 when the second annual Flanner Pinball Wizard Tournament gets under way in the Flanner game room. 
The contest is divided into three parts. The Blindfolded Team Contest starts at 8:30p.m. and is followed by the tandem team event. These two contests are open to the entire student body at no cost. 
The third and final event is the Pinball Wizard Playoff. This event 
is open only to people who have had a score recorded in the Flanner game room within the last two weeks. The people who have scored the highest scores will qualify for the playoff. The winner will be proclaimed "Mr. Wizard." 
Wilson Fellow will be held on 
Monday evening, February 17. Prof. Walter Nicgorski from the generalprogramofliberalstudiesand Prof. Alfons Bietzinger of the government department will participate in the discussion. 
On Tuesday evening, February 18, the discussion centers on Congress. Guest lecturer, Prof. Samuel Patterson, from the University of Iowa, will be ac­Rice, from the Notre Dame Law Or 


School and Fr. Raymond Cour, professor of government. 
Although no definite date has been set, Sen. James Buckley, the Conservative legislator from New York, is expected to speak either on Feb. 23 or 24. 
Washington Post reporter and commentator, Nicholas von Hoffman, will appear in Washington Hall on March 12, at 8 

th . t t d. . 
OSe In ereS e In SUpporting
the United Farm Worker's Struggle for Justice 
Thurs. 5 pm Student Activities Office -Lafortune 
DAYTONA BEACH 
*March22-29 
*  Includes all Transportation  
* *  Includes all Accommodations  
Choice of efficiencies or Regular Rooms  

*FREE PARTIES WHILE TRAVELING
* Disney World Options
*Other Special Optitions 
* Free Bar B Ques & Parties 
Scene from our 1974 ND Trip. in Daytona. 
LIMITED ACCOMMODATIONS 
Sign up Early 
SMC 4834 ND 277-0124 283-8656 Evenings & Weekends 
TOTAL PRlCE 
$14250 
the "ACTION TRI PN 
Join U. of Illinois & Illinois State 
USE YOUr 
ma.ster charge 
Tttf 1""iTt RftU.;" ( 6AQ 
MASTERCHARGE 
I 

Not all life lies •
1n books 

Dear 'Editor: 
As my .college days come to an end. it is time for an overdue reflection on the goodness and perversities of the University of Notre Dame. The excellence of the academics at the University goes without saying. It is a foremost leader in many areas of education and has maintained a national prestige with the quality of its professors. 
But, as mature individuals, we should realize that not all of life can be read from a book. The majority of the University's students must revert to the books for a self-contained happiness because other factors within the University inhibit and almost degrade our potential of just being human. I refer here to the per­verse attitude towards social in­tercourse. There are varying causes of this perversity, like the ratio of men to women, the lack of a "normal" atmosphere at the bars, the 21 drinking law, the sexual code, parietals, etc. But none of these really grasp the core of the problem. The origin of such perversity is the underestimation of the individual by certain powers within the University. We ARE responsible, we ARE mature, we are just plain degraded humans. 
I am not fostering a free-for-all type of University. My complaint is solely vested in the ad­ministrators and coordinators of this so-called body of united people, "the university." Notre Dame relies on contributions for its existence. To maintain 


existence, the desires and attitudes of the contributors must be pleased. I understand. Yet, are the older generations so far removed and so inhuman that they can not understand the needs of a University's student body? I don't underestimate them, but have every reason to believe that their apathy towards improving the University has allowed major policies to be formed and upheld by "the power." Is there any com­promise to allow us to be human, to permit the real world to seep through'? Can't we ail through the common bond of this small humanistic-orientated university answer so many ignored questions, 
ignored desires and ideas? 
Dreamers can't dream alone and create a reality out of a dream. Tradition bottles a dreamer and tradition has its costs--those costs being theinhibitionof a renovated, adjustable, dynamic sort of life. It is so incomprehensible to me why the University lingers on the past laws of the Catholic . Church--the Vatican surely won't shatter if we dropped parietals or the sexual code. Abolishing detex cards and other female privileges may also be a wise idea so that women are not viewed as unique entities to society. 
The University is supposed to 
represent the brotherhood of man, 
and I am one person that feels ND 
can be a beautiful place for all 
people to learn, share, care and 
most importantly love at a human, 
not beastly, level. It is just so 
perverse that as a graduating 
senior, I am still dreaming of 
common human acceptance at 
duLac. The barriers here have had 
a dampening effect on my 
development, on trying to be a 
many-faceted person. 
Sincerely, 
C. Esposito 
A dangerous precedent set 
Dear Editor : 
I find it difficult to contain my 
anger and frustration arising from 
the r.ecent flurry of expulsions, 
enforced removals from campus, 
and "disciplinary exiles" caused 
by minor infractions of parietals 
and-or party rules. 
The dangerous precedent has 
now been set which will allow a 
rector to indiscriminately remove 
a student from his dormitory for 
the sake of preserving Notre Dame 
as a "Catholic" university, or 
without any explanation what­
soever. So now the students are 
faced with the possibility of living 
in an environment which is socially 
retarded, in a sense, by being 
saddled with the albatross of 
Catholicism. 
Granted, the crackdown on the 
use of alcohol by minors was 
precipitated by a legal ruling by 
the state of Indiana itself. 
Hopefully, this situation will be 
rectified in the short term future, 
and Notre Dam,e students can 
return to their typical 9 p.m. to 2 
p.m. parties-typical only because the administration insists upon legislating our morality after said hour <i.e. loco parentis). 
It is a shame that Notre Dame is seemingly so committed to their policy of social regression. A point has to be reached eventually where the unpleasantness of the Notre Dame campus environment will outweigh the advantages of the academic excellence. Perhaps this is the administration's response to the housing shortage on-campus. More realistically, I 
• WITH HIS LECTURE THIS EVENING, "HOW TO MAKE A FORTUNE FROM YOUR COUNTRY'S MISFORTUNE," MAY I PRESENT, MR. JOHN DEAN.' 

----th_e_o_b_s_e-rv_e_r_--:----DOONESBURY 
Ni9ht Editor -Thomas O'Neil 
Ass't Night Editor -Dan Sanchez Layout -Marti Hogan, Julie Pellettiere, Maureen Sajbel, Bob Brink Gregg Bangs 
Copy Reader -Jim Eder Day Editor . Gregg Bangs Editorials -Dan again!! 
Sports -Pete McHugh Typists -Janet Carney, Jim Landis, Tom Modglin, Barb Norcross, Rick Huber Compugraphic Operator -Mel Blinder 
Picture Screener -AI D. Antonio Night Controller -M.J. Foley Ad Layout -Tom Whelen 
fear the upholding of these archaic rules portends a continuance of the Burtchaell-Macheca mentality directed against the students. 
Until our administration stops building their theological and philosophical castles in the sky and expecting us to inhabit them, and begins working for some progressive change in campus life, Notre Dame will have to resign itself to being a much less human place than it should be. 
Very truly yours, Robert E. Dalton, Jr. '75 
Official calls draw fire 
Dear Editor: 

Three players lay sprawled on the court as the ball gently swishes through the opponent's net. The three have been knocked, pushed, or thrown down, and after going down one has even been held down.· A time out is called after the ball is brought in-bounds, and the opposing team staggers to their bench in laughter after pulling off such a stunt without a foul being called. If this sounds strikingly familiar, you too must have been at last nights bask-etball (farce) game at the ACC. 
Digger tries vainly to protest, and is saddled with a technical foul which seemingly, in the waning moments, puts the game out of 
. Notre Dame's reach. 
The Irish keep storming back, however, until one of their final shots is blocked and the ND player shooting the ball is hammered. Again no foul is called. 
Such officiating typified last nights ND-MSU game at the ACC, and it is nausiating to see the sport of college basketball degraded like it was. This isn't the first time we've had to put up with poor of­ficiating (it . is becoming quite common l but it seems to be the first time that there is a direct correlation to the bad job done by the officials and the addition of a loss to our record. 
As a more concrete example, Michigan State reached the bonus situation (7 fouls against the op­ponents which initiates the "one and one" foul shots) before 10 minutes had elapsed in each half. The Irish, however, reached that point somewhat later in the first half, with about five1minutes left in the 20 minute half, and never in the second half. I don't think more than 2 or 3 fouls were called against the Spartans in the second half. Notice that reads fouls called, not fouls committed. 
The officiating at Notre Dame games is getting progressively worse. I leave every game won­dering how it could be worse, and to my dismay, I'm shown in the 
• "IJ£AR MR. SGCI?&TARY: 
IN Til£ R'ISTIU£/iK TilE O£NI­ZEN5 OF TillS /5I.IINf) HAVe fflfJUR£!) A HfiRRJCANC. A to­
CIISTPLA6il4 A FAMINE, A 
~ VOUANO &RJJPT!ON... 
"'-o ' /., ANIJ... t/fl.. 

the observer 5 
next game. There should be something that can be done to improve the situation. 
Does every independent school have to put up with officials from the nearest conference, even 
. though it plays teams in that conference'? If they do, why do they, and if not, why do we? Im­partiality, apparently is something blatantly mispracticed by our Big 10 Ref's, and it, to the greatest degree is mispracticed against us. 
Clearly there should be some way we can get better officials for our home games at least, because there's nothing we can do about away games. 
Last nights game was a mockery! So bad, that I even consider suggesting that the game be appealed to the NCAA, but the possibility of any action being taken is at best negligible. There was nothing really outrageous enough to sanction NCAA in­volvement, just a lot of bad calls. 
I'll be the first to admit that the officials aren't going to please everyone with their calls (or lack of them in this case) but last night, the Spartans and their fans must have left feeling pretty pleased. Something must be done! 
I think the athletic department should attempt to obtain officials from areas other than the Big 10. There is no reason for ND basketball fans to endure another performance by the officials such as we witnessed last night in the ACC. The two men in striped shirts are paid to judge the fair and honest play of the game, not to help control it's outcome. 
Rick Huber 228 Holy Cross A concerned fan 

Issue errors are criticized 
Dear Editor: 
Congratulations! Your Tuesday, January 28, 1974 issue will un­doubtedly become one of the classics of College Journalism. A cursoryreview of the letters and articles in that issue reveals that they all have one thing in common ­-typographical and compositional errors. Spelling errors, improper spacing between words, improper alignment of the Compugraphic tapes all add up to one thing --a total lack of professionalism. . 
Your previous issues have nothing to be proud about; they too were riddled with ~these same errors. However, in previous issues these errors were applied with some moderation. The Tuesday, January 28, 1974 issue will go down in Notre Dame history as the one in which you pulled all the stops and spared no effort in providing one of the worst examples of Journalism ever to hit the street. 
It has been said that the New York Times co'ltains more of these types of errors than any flther publicatior on the face of the • :arth. 
It would ar.pear that your J2 nuary 28, 1974 issue has provid,~ the world with a new standard against which all others can be measured. 
Once again, Congratulations. I hope that each member of your staff will have a copy of this most memorable issue appended to his or her permanent academic record to record for posterity (and future job interviewers) the physical evidence of their journalistic abilities or lack thereof. 
Sincerely, 
M.A. Roddy III 
by Garry Trudeau 
0 
1'11 A RlfASt:W­

• A&E MAN, MAcAR.Tl-lfJR, 
sor KNOW o 71-115 ISN'T SNOIII. 
\ 

SPRING BREAK TRIP TO 
MONTEGO BAY 
JAMAICA 
ROUND TRIP VIA AIR JAMAICA FROM DETROIT DAYS, 7 NIGHTS AT LUXURIOUS MONTEGO BAY HOLIDAY INN MARCH 22-29 $332 per person $50 DEPOSITS DUE BY FRI. FEB 14! CALL 272-9895 OR STOP BY S.U. TICKET OFFICE 
-. 
~6:___ _:t:...:h~e:__::o:...:b=-=s'--'e=--=--r-=-v--=e:...:r=-----Thursday, February 6, 1975 
Salaries are insufficient 
Faculty faces inflation 
(continued from page I) 

as before; on the other hand, the colleges' existing wealth are shrinking right before their very eyes," Rathburn summarized. 
Burtchaell presented a potential new source of concern for private institutions and endowments. "The Congress is presently considering a revision in the tax laws which would take away the initiative (deductions) for philanthropic icontributions. If passed, this would deal a great blow to all private, educational institutions," the provost said. 
''Also. government contracts in many research areas are not as lucrative as before," Rathburn added. "Today they're darn hard to come by," he noted. 
Indeed, the 1973 report by the Committee on University Priorities <COUP> recommended for teaching and research that "all members of the faculty be responsible for exploring all possibilities of subvention for research from sources outside the llniversity." 
I• Faculty salaries lag behind 
"It is assumed, most con­servatively and undoubtedly unrealistically, an inflation rate of 
4.0 per cent for the academic year 1974-75," Swartz's committee report estimated. 
"To hedge against the an­ticipated inflation during this academic year, the average full­time teaching and research gfaculty member will need an increase of $651. Simply to return to the same purchasing power Notre Dame faculty had in 1971-72, will require a salary increase on a magnitude of $1700 to $1900," the Committee Z report determined. 
In other words, faculty salaries for the academic year 1974-75 would have to be raised 10.9-12 percent to leave individuals with the same after tax purchasing power that they had in 1971-72. In actuality, the faculty received a 
10.1 percent compensation hike. 
Prof. Edward Trubac, president of the Notre Dame chapter of the AAUP. compared the salary gap with the Big Ten universities. "The gap right now between Notre name and the Big Ten universities i~ $1200, which is one of the reasons why the Faculty Senate asked for a $1200 permanent increase," he sat d. 
'Slasher' suspect arrested in L.A. 
LOS ANGELES <UPI> -A -t5-year-old transient who claimed to be the "skid row slasher" was booked on suspi­cion of murder Tuesday but officers said there was doubt whether he was the man who cut the throats of nine victims. 
The t r a n s i e n t, Theodore Lane. was the first person actually booked in connection with the slasher slayings although a dozen or so young ml'n have been picked up for questioniru! and then released. 
Lt. Lynn Selby, head of the Police Department's slasher investigation. said Lane had a knife when he was arrested at a Hollywood hotel but it did not • appear to be the kind used in the murders. 
Selby said Lane told an 

acquaintance he was the slasher and the acquaintance notified police. 
Meantime, investigators ques­tioned the credibility d a tape recording purpoctedly /rom the~ 
--slasher and telephone calls C 



which threatened the life of a; 
newspaper  reporter.  •  
Police  s p o k e s man  Pete t "appears I 
Hagan  said  the  tape  

to be the work of a crank." 
The tape was found in a telephone booth Monday night after a man called the Herald : Examiner and told reporters ! 
"A permanent increase of $600 was recommended by the Faculty Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees. The faculty did, in fact, receive a $600 temporary raise," Trubac explained. "We're still at this bonus aspect," he concluded. 
"We're very much opposed to any idea of a bonus," Trubac continued. "That's kind of an odd way of referring to a bonus, which is usually a reward for a job well­done in good times. But here it seems to be an adjustment during bad times. The idea of a temporary one is a very novel indeed," 
N 0 W 
BLITZ 
AND 
LISTEN 
~Shu/~~
NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS 
on US. 31 bttween Nits. So. Bend.fret Parkin&·683-4350 
you'll 
the AAUP chapter president stated. "One can hardly say a 10.1 percent increase was given, because 3.7 percent ($600 supplement) is simply temporary. But the impact of inflation is permanent," Trubac said. 
Using data from the national report of the AAUP for the academic year 1973-74, a table of percentage increases in salary, comparing Notre Dame to all reporting institutions in the country. shows that average 
(continued on page 7) 

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION. SPONSORED BY ST. JOE BANK TRAVEL AGENCY 

* 
THIS YEAR-NO EXCUSES!

* 
TICKETS: $6.50 TiCKETS FOR $2.00 .··• . PARKING, PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION AND HOTEL 

* 
.·. . . DISCOUNTS ARE AVAILABLE. CONSULT THIS NEWSPAPER 


*r---·-~AN~D~A~TH~L~ET~IC~O~FF~IC~E~F~OR~M=O~RE~D~E~TA~IL=S~.----~~ 
* 
SPECIAL FOOD PLAN-$2.00 (TAX & TIP INCLUDED) SPECIAL MEALS AVAILABLE EVENING OF GAME AT: MARTINSON'S COFFEE SHOPPE,

* 
PETE SMITH'S HALL OF FAME & CIRCUS. ALL RESTAURANTS LOCATED WITHIN GARDEN COMPLEX ON LONG ISLAND R.R LEVEL. MENUS ELSE­


* WHERE. IN PAPER AND AT ATHL~TTC OFFICE. 
at these 

1\/V\A/V'V 
Big Discounts! Save up to $3.00! 
Records 
• 

Top artists! Major labels! 
Hundreds of records! Classics included! 
many selections in this special purchase. 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE SALE STARTS TODAY 
DON'T MISS THIS SALE!! 
Come early for best selection! 

* 
* 
* * 
* * 
* 
~ 


where it was located. 
...............•.........•.......•...............•.......................•..; .........•....................•.........................• 
Thursday, February 6, 1975 the observer 
Statistics show 
Facultywages are lacking 
(continued from page 6) president stated. don't have any union here. What salary increase during that "We really don't have any direct we do is to make public what is academic year at Notre Dame for means of discussing these kinds of going on, and hopefully the ad­full-time, continuing faculty questions," Trubac continued. ministration is responsive to what members was 3.8 percent. "We don't negotiate with the ad-we make public," Trubac ex­
Comparatively, "about 90 ministration on these issues: we plained. percent of all reporting schools" 
Average Salaries, Fringe Benefits and Compensation for allgranted permanent pay increases Full Time Members of the Notre Dame Teaching and Researchlast year of at least 4 percent. "In 

Faculty in Constant 1967 Dollars

terms of salary hikes, Notre Dame was in the bottom 10 percent of all 1'\umbt-t' of Salat·~· in 
Bent-fits Cmn Pl'Usa­

universities for the 1973-74 Full Tim.-l!llii 
in I!llii
· l'ear Uon in I!llii

academic year," Trubac said. Faculty Dollat·s 
I>ollat·s ;)oJiat·s

"The 1974-75 stats won't be out until the summer," he added. •Prn[essnrs Referring back to the 10.1 per­1973-74 139 14,700 2,450 17,150cent compensation given to full­1972-73 147 
15,380 2,400 17,780time faculty this year, Trubac 1971-72 147 15,845 1,980 17,825said, "The rate of inflation for the 1970-71 157 15,533 1,866 

17.399 

year just ended was 12 percent. So Associate Pt·oft-ssot·s what this means is that the faculty 
973-74 137 11,300 1,900 13,200

incurred a loss of real income and 972-73 146 11,897 1,889 13,786continues to incur a loss of real 971-72 146 12,154 1.435 13,589income," Trubac said. 
970-71 153 11,966 '1.332 13,298

"The faculty's real income is less than it was six years ago, once 
Assislat!l Pt·ofessors you make the adjustment for in­1973-74 150 !1,220 1,320 10,540 nation. So even with a 10.1 percent 1972-73 152 !1,816 1,420 11,236 increase, there is a deterioration of 1971-72 162 10,123 '874 10,997 real income once you adjust for 1970-71 162 !1,916 !101 10,817 inflation," the AAUP chapter lnstrul'tm·s 
1973-74 25 7,430 !130 8,360 1972-73 20 7,807 1.068 8,875 1971-72 28 7,603 557 8,160

Bentsen enters 1970-71 29 7,17:l 7,631
'458 

Presidential race 
IN CONCERT 

WASHINGTON Sen. Lloyd Bentsen of Texas Wednesday scheduled a press conference Feb. 
HELEN REDDY 

17 to make official his campaign for the Democratic presidential 
with Specia I Guest 

nomination. His Senate colleague, Henry A. 
PETER ALLEN 

Jackson of Washington, has already bought national television time Thursdaynight to formalize 
THIS SUN. FEB. 9th 8:00 P.M. 

his own hard-running but unan­nounced candidacy. 
Ticket Prices 
NOTRE DAME

In setting times for their an­
Bleachers • _ • • • • • $4.50

nouncements, both senators sought to prolong suspense about their 
Lower Arena • • • • • $5.50 ATHLETIC AND plans. But since each reported 
Floor, Loge •••••• $6.50 CONVOCATION CENTER 
WANTED 
By order of the Clown Prince of 
1955 Gibson Les Paul. 1929 

Boogie: Fred Graver-The Nazz­National resonator guitar. Expert Need ride to Univ. of Illinois Feb. Midnight, Friday. Repair Service. Discount on 14 & 21. Call Don 16 84 
strings. Sunflower Music Shop, 632 Portage Ave.
"YOU'VE GOTTA HAVE 

Wanted-Housekeeper part time. 
HEART" CHARITY DANCE J72-4894. Top Dollar 1 pr. Head Killys with Salcoman
SAT., FEB. 8th· 9:30 PM til 12:30 bindings. Raichle boots, Scott
am. DENNIS BAMBER QUAR·

Several students need people to poles. Call Dan at 234-5200
TET. CHRIST THE KING 

make conversation with us in 
SCHOOL GYM, U.S. 31 NORTH & 

Spanish, very little tutoring. Call Garrard turntable, Electrophonic
DARDEN, SO. BEND SPON­259-7753 about 9:00 p, Receiver, Realistic 1,000 speakers.
SORED BY SOCIAL ACTION $250.00. Ph 9809

CHRIST THE KING CATHOLIC Need ride to I.U. Bloomington any 
CHURCH. wiikend before break. Call Tim Beginner's Camera Outfit for
FREE REFRESHMENTS 8382 Sale; Mamiya Sekor 500 TL, 50
ADMISSION $3.30 ·SINGLE, $7.00 mm f2, 500 mm f8 Telephoto and 2x
COUPLE. TICKETS + MARY 

Wanted: Ride to N E Wisconsin Soligor Teleconverter. All cases
FREEL-212-4495 Feb. 7 Call Maureen Ph. 4264 included. $320.00 Ph. 8709 
Money? Morrissey Loan will lend NOTICES A set of weights (metal plate).
up to $150 for 30 days 1 day waiting Total weight 90 lbs & 25 lb bar. Best

period. Basement of LaFortune. Please! Return formal dresses. Offer. 272-9895
Daily 11:15 to 12:15 (Pink. off-white) Belongs to 
younger sister. Rm. 200 7879 BS Tt 8 track, AM-FM stereo, pre­
Car problems? Come to Hoffman amp 2 kenwood 2-way speaker.
Bros. Eddy at Madison. Wholesale $150 phone 289-3365
prices to N D-SMC students,Join our North East Day Care 

faculty, staff, do-it-yourselfers.

parent cooperative. $15 a month Repair service also available. 
FOR RENT Since 1929. 234-0191

plus 4 hours parent participation 
per week. 9-5 233-2233 
furnished apt 2 people, Men-Women! 
bedrooms, living room, kitchen,
Accurate fast !Jping North east

Jobs on Ships! No experience bath, all utilities. Near NO 272-6174
section of South Bend. Reasonable.

required. Excellent pay. World­232-0746wide Travel. Perfect summer job 
Share House 1013 NO Ave. $50 & or career. Send $3.00 for in­
utilities 288-3408 formation. 
FOR SALE SEAFAX, Dept. G-13 P.O. Box Graduate Student needs apart­2049, Port Angeles, Wash. ment-mate 1 room -for each,
71 Plymouth Fairlite 2 door 
conveniently located, reasonable
automatic power steering & air 

Casting for new Smash Musical rent, call 232-0030 after 6 pm for
cond. 1400. Call 234.3883 233-6922

"Kathy .Reilly" Call Ron 232-7766 details. 

SOUTH BEND'S IRISH PUB 

~~~ 0_,., 
.t.z-_.a srr,..~"' 
NOW SERVING GYROS (A GREEK SPECIALTY) AND OTHER FINE FOOD 
ALSO YOUR FA\ORITE 
•
BEER, WNE.AND COCKTAILS 
ACROSS FRC»A 
GOOD OLD CORBY'S 

503 W. Jefferson Duplex. 3 rooms second floors, gas heat, furnished. 289-6307' 234-0596 
P.A. System for Rent. Call Archie 232-4967 
Houses ranging from two to seven bedrooms. Completely furnished. Available for May or Sept. 234-9364 
LOST & FOUND 
South Dining Hall. Cig. lighter engraved w-maps of Germany. please call Mark 277-1560 
Lost one blue stocking cap on North Quad on Thursday. Call Tim -8977 
FOUNDpr.ofglasses (brown) call Bill 8697 
Found set of keys on NO Ave. opposite Lib. Call 8428 
Lost at Nickies Fri. nile: over-coat & wallet. Please call John 282-103Y. Reward 
PERSONALS My lambs Congratulations on your engagement! Welcome back to the fold. · Your loving Father, J.C. 
Morgan the organ is loose on third. 
Gay Students of Notre Dame: an organization of persons interested in sharing with others an im­portant aspect of their lives. P.O. Box 1702, South Bend, Ind. 46601 
Dear Mary, This is true: you're 20 today. You're getting old, God help us. But don't worry about wrinkles because they're no prob Love, F.D.K.C. 
Dear Secret Admirer, Thank you so much for your beautiful letter. It really touched me and I hope to meet you soon. Lynne 
Suuzie: Here it is, personal no. 2. I'm more unpredictable than the grader of a 200 level History test. More generous too. 83 yes, 90--never. See you later Junior Birdman 
Diciplinary action hanging over your head? Call Student Govt. 7668. We may be able to help. 
Coach-The ball game is over. You won. So relax and enjoy youself. Happy 22nd. "That's the most ridiculous thing I ever heard" Little Joe 
Endurance record. Happy 41st Jim + Mery Love + Kisses Brad, Bill + Mike 
.... 
the observer Thursday, February 6, 1975 

Spartan war slays Irish, Digger 

by Grt>g Corgan "Duck" Williams then drove in
Sports Editor 
and banked a layup, but Ray Instead of a chalk talk at half­Martin fouled Glover who again 

tim!' of Wednesday night's Notre made both free throws. DantleyDame-Michigan State basketball narrowed the margin to 74-69 with game, the Irish might have done o: 43 to play, and after the Irish better to stay on the floor and swiped the inbounds pass, Martin watch the karate demonstration. hit a layup making it 74-71. 
They could have used it. But Paterno bumped Lindsay The 76-73 Spartan victory before Hairston as the Irish pressed 
11,243 spectators in the ACC made trying to get the ball, and the 
an East Harlem gang war look Spartan center made the last of his 
mild in comparison. 18 points with two free throws at 
''I'll tell you," said MSU coach 0: 18left. Williams got two more as (Ius Ganakas afterwards, "it was State was called for goaltending,vicious out there." making it 76-73, and it appeared
"They were dirty players," said the Irish might have one more Irish forward Billy Paterno, who chance as they stole the inbounds was in on more than his fair share pass. "Duck" took the shot but it of the Pxcitemt>nt. "They were was blocked and he lost theball out holding, pushing off, setting of bounds with nine seconds to moving screens. They're the play. The Irish got the ball back dirtiest team I ever played against with three seconds to play and m my life, and they were getting three points to make. but the Notre away with it too." Dame bag of tricks was empty and 
Paterno wasn't quite so lucky in time ran out.

.. thP second half when he drew a Despite the fact that both of­t£>chnical foul for pushing the ficials let the game get out of hand, Spartans Bill Glover. From the Phelps had no comment. "They do stands it looked as if Paterno threw the best they can," he said. "But a right haymaker to Glover's head. I'll tell vou," he continued. 
IRISH COACH Digger Phelps had a lotto say to the referees last night in Notre Dame's 76-73 loss to Michigan"No. he just brushed me back, "Michigan State has won three in a State. He garnered two of the game's five technical fouls, the second coming with only 1:27 left in the game.
with his forearm," said Glover row on the road and they are a 
afterwards. "He had been rough "It was a big win for Michigan lots ot variables are involved in scored 31 points, 21 more than
good team. They deserved the win 

housing the whole game. It's all in tonight, they earned it. They're as State," said Ganakas, whose getting a tournament berth," said Paterno. Williams and Toby Spartans are now 13-5 and 8-1 since Digger. "If you look at everybody, Knight who each finished with ten.
the game though." quick as anybody we've played, 10 players were suspended before you'll see they already have five, "Adrian was 13 of 25 from theUnfortunately, so are technical especially in getting it down the 
fouls, and one on ND floor. too the Indiana game. "That incident six, seven, or eight losses. What floor," said Digger. ''What more
the coach We gave them manyDigger Phelps with 1:27 to go in the easy buckets in the first half." 
may have helped us get some trust we have to do now is beat South can vou ask of the kid." ball game proved to be the stopper in one another. Carolina." Not much, but the rest of the
Both teams played dead even in "But this game tonight was In losing, Notre Dame dropped Irish could manage to connect onthe Irish didn't need. the first period and with 1:49 to played under a lot of pressure," he to 11-7 on the season. but if there only 42 per cent of their shots andWith I:34 to play, MSU's Terry play. the Irish had a 34-33lead. But 

l<'urlow hit a short jumper amidst a two by sand­added. "They had to win it from a was a bright spot, it was the per-only 37 per cent in the first half.
baskets Hairston, 

frenzy of activity underneath the tournament standpoint, and now, formance of Adrian Dantley. Notre Dame's next game is
wiched around a jumper by

Spartan basket to give State a 69-65 we can start thinking the same Despite a protective mask which against South Carolina Saturday at
Furlow, who led the Spartans with 

thing." limited his effectiveness and ob-1: oo p.m. befor(~ a regional
lead. Phelps signaled for a timeout 20 points, gave State a 39-34 lead at and immediately made con­intermission. 
''We have eight games left and structed his peripheral vision, A.D. television audience. 
versation with referee Richard The Irish fell further behind in Weiler, who had already dealt out the opening minutes of the second two "T's" to Ganakas, one to half. but battled back to take a 47­Paterno and one to Digger. Weiler 46lead at the 14 minute mark. The 
Grasso weights lor chance
continued his show of generosity Irish held the lead until Benny
and slapped Phelps with another. White made two free throws with Furlow made the free throw and a
12:26 to go giving MSU 52-51 by Pete McHugh lifter. but in the jargon of his sport can turn into almost a junkee'sthe Spartans got possession of the advantage. Notre Dame then fell Why would anyone want to lift a power lifter. Power lifting dif­obsession with concentratedball whereupon Adrian Dantley behind by as many as ten points, 
500 lbs.? fers from any other kind of "body protein foods and food sup­fouled Glover. Tbe senior guard 65-55 with 7: 13 to play. but were in Because it's there? Well, not building." It is concerned simply plemt•nts. For Tony however, evenmade both ends of the one and one the midst of a comeback (67-65, with strength and the con­the paltry dining hall selectionsexactly.
giving Michigan State a 72-65 lead 2:02 to play) when Phelps got the centration of strength. Officially have to figure in his conditioning.
What about the chicks? Isn't allwith 1: 12 to play. 

"I eat what I have to eat

"T". this squating and bench-pressing sanctioned and controlled by the 
for an alluring, virile body? AAll. it involves only three especially oodles of milk. I also Macho? Mucles? And didn't your ,(•xercises in competition; the take vitamins and drink about a squat. the bench-press, and the quart of liquid protein a week. If I
parents beat you with barbells 

dead-lift. was going to buy everything, I'd
when you were young? 

need five dollars a day."
Tony Grasso lifts 500 lbs., but he Last month in the Cinncinnati 
As to the images of fat formerdoesn't claim any such underlying University Power-lifting Open, strongmen. he pointed out that t!hP

reasons. Tony has a much simpler Tony along with strongman Bob
OBSERVER 

usual gym routine burns up overjustification, "I like it. I really do. Duncan captured second and first !100 calories per hour which must
You don't have to be so naturally place honors respectively in their be replaced by the supplementary
coordinated or naturally able. weight classes. Duncan, a fresh­Weight-lifting is something I can man from Chicago, won the diet. When a person stops the
SPORTS 

weight program,
work at with consistency and ridiculously tough 242 lb. weight he'll have to 
make some concessions, "If you
compete at." class squatting 490 lbs, benching quit weight-lifting, you got to stopAnd just who is Tony Grasso to 290 lbs., and dead-lifting 500 lbs. In eating."
be lifting weights, let alone 500 lbs. the 181 pound class, Grasso's 
Tony has never had any

To begin with, he isn't on the figures weren't that far behind his harrowing experiences with hisfootball team, track team. or any teammate: squat-440, bench-290, power lifting. He did emphasizeother team. Nobody ever kicked and dead-lift -505 lbs. 
the flexibility of the workout
Fencersfacefourin 
sand in his face. No, Tony picks up Tony cited the showing and the routine and his own practice of not the bar both hands at a time. many serious lifters on campus as using maximum weight in anyTony is a junior from St. Louis, reason for a weight-lifting club at exercise. And his best afternoon in 
Missouri. He neverreallvtouched a Notre Dame. The club could
Saturday stabbings 
a gym did not involve any of thebarbell until he came. to Notre organize trips to AAU meets and
One of the top records in the leadership of team captain Tom usual healthy preparation.
Dame, and then to only tone up a more importantly, according to
current No.tre Dame sports Coye, the Irish appear solid. "The best workout day I had was
sagging figure. Since then, 

~rogram Will ~o on di~pla,y Relying. primarily on Terry Grasso. put some pressure on the after I stayed up all night and
however, this pasttime has become athletic department to shore up the Saturday, when Michael DeCicco s McConville and Mike Cahey, the drank."
a preoccupation. And the once 5'9" condition of the weight-liftingfencers take on four top schools at foil will be counted on to fare as Maybe there is something to this185 lb. pudgy Grasso has become a room. He specifically mentionedthe ACC. The bouts will start at 10 well as they did last weekend to weight-lifting after all. 
a.m. and will be held in the duplicate the team's excellent burly 180 lb. muscleman. the dangerous and antiquated gymnasiums on either side of the showing. What brought about the tran­wooden bench-press in use in the hockey r.ink in the ACC. At epee, which the Irish won sformation was a serious workout Convocation Center. Skiers too slow 
The I~1sh will fa.ce Detroit•. the overall 28-8 in Saturday's tourney, routine four days a week, two and a He also pointed out that those Umvers1ty of Chicago, Indiana the nucleus will form around the half hours a day in the ACC's registered with the AAU and in­
Led by Sarah Bartzer's per­

University, and Marquette. The efforts of Tim Glass, Dave Connor weight room. He spent most of his teres ted in competition could 
formance in the slalom events, theIrish have dominated the prior and John Strass. Glass time strengthening his shoulders, compete in the upcoming Windy Notre Dame women's ski teamcontests against the schools, distinguished himself last year in chest. and legs, with the squat, City Open February 18 in Chicago. 
captured a third place trophy in theholdm.g an all:time edge of ~2 being chosen for the U.S. Olympic press, bench-press, and dead-lift With Duncan, he is setting his Detroit News Cup Races last
v1ctones. and. JUSt 14 losses Epee Squad, from which the 1976
m exercises. sights on the National Collegiate weekend at Alpine Valley
competitiOn smce 1934. Olympic team will be chosen. Each of these exercises is Championships April 5-6 at Michigan. Bartzer captured he~The fencers, .n~w .11-2 on the One of the most exciting and concerned with putting the most Maryville, Missouri . He in­second bronze medal of the season season are ant1c1patmg a tough more freewheeling weapons is the stess on the particular area dicated that the Indiana Power in the competition.
",latch from each of the schools. sabre. For the Irish, Sam DiFiglio desired. The press is probably the Lifting Championships will be held Her placing was the only Irish1 he only team that they have faced ranks as number one with Mike most well-known involving in May in or around campus. appearance in the winner's circlethu~ far in the sea~n. has been Progar, John Vozella', and Mike
... basically lifting the weighted bar Personally, he described his all day. In the grand slalom event
lnd~ana, who the Irtsh defeated Sazdanoff competing for the two 
over the head. The bench-press is the women's team (Ann Hawkins'
easily'. 23-4 on January 15 at and three spots with the weapon. workout experience as valuabae to 
done from a horizontal position by his mental as well as his physical May Carmel Burke, Moral Grac~Bloommgton. , . . Following this Saturday's Battzerl narrowly missed a bronzeLast Saturday s boutmg actiOn, action, there will be only one more extending the weighred bar out­well being. "Lifting weights helps medal with their fourth place
wards from the chest. The full

gave much promise to DeCicco, five-team tourney left to see the me work away from the day's showing.
who watched as his team swept all fencers in action. Following that squat requires the traditional gym pressures. It also gives me a In the men's competition Notrefou~ matches to win the meet will be the Great Lakes Tourney exercise except with the awsome feeling of accomplishment. Of Dame continued its losing' wayseasily. In the victories, each which will draw teams from force of the barbell on the course, I've always valued being failing to place a single skier. Th~ weapon dominated at least once, throughout the midwest in two shoulders. The dead-lift involves physically fit." 
Irish travel to Crystal Mountainand another good showing by each days of fencing competition at the the lifting of the bar to waist height One thing that the weight this weekend for another MCSA
of the weapons will be needed. ACC. in one motion. 
program involves is a lot of <Michigan College SkiAt the foil spot, behind the Now he is no longer a weight-protein. For some competitors it Association l meet. 



