Freshman orientation issue 
server 
university of notre dame st. mary's college 
Saturday, Auaust 30, 11'' •

Vol. X No.1 

Extensive programs planned 
SMC. ND welco1ne Frosh 
Program under theme of poem by W.H. Auden 
by Val Zurblls Stan Reporter 
Saint Mary's College welcomes freshmen and transfer students today with its orientation program under the theme of the poem, "For Friends Only" by W. H. Auden. 
Beth Amend, orientation co­chairman, said the orientation will stress personal approach. "Saint Mary's is all-female and smaller than Notre Dame. I think we should emphasize making new friends as well as starting college." 
This year's freshman class in­cludes a total of 487 freshmen and 55 transfer students. Fifty-three 

percent were in the top fifth of their class and 99 per cent in the top half. More than one-half of the 
Bicentennial Festival planned
students are from private schools, and geographically 37 states and 9 The nation's Bicentennial year's leave. Student Center. countries are represented. . Celebr~tion will rece!ve ~ajor In the fourth year of coeducation The conversion of Lewis Hall 
Upperclass "Bill Sisters" w1ll emphasis at the Umvers1ty of on the undergraduate level at from a residence for graduate greet the newcomers and help them Notre D~me wh.ere the 134th year Notre Dame, an anticipated 320 women to a hall for undergraduate register. . after a welcome ad-of opera lion begms September 3. A women beginning the Freshman women with two students in each dress by Dr. John M. Duggan, new hi~hlight ~f the year. will be a Year of Studies Program will room, and the changes in Badin college president, students will be BJCen~enmal FestiVal fr~m expand the University's female Hall where single rooms for invited to an informal ad-Marcn 1 to 11, 1976, when a maJor enrollment to 1,300, up from last graduate students will replace the ministration reception, 11n ad-national conference is scheduled year's 1,140. Several hundred former double rooms for un­ministrative-parents council on the theme "An Alm~st <?tosen other women participate in post­dergraduates. picnic, a multi-media presentation Peopl~: Th~ Moral Asp1rahons of baccalaureate programs or are 
Improvements at Universityand residence hall parties. Amencans. enrolled in a 10-year old co­Village, a residence area forA mass and brunch are Three new deans have been exchange program with neigh­married students and construction scheduled for Sunday morning named by administrative officials boring Saint Mary's College. A in the press box area of the NotreAugust 31. A parent, student af: to ~irec~ colleges or schools at the total of 1625 freshman students Dame Stadium. Rev. Theodorefairs and academic briefing will be lJmvers1ty. Brother Leo V. Ryan, are expected to arrive August 30 M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., beginning his conducted Sunday afternoon and C.S.C., will succe~d Acting Dean for a three-day orientation and 24th year as president at Notre an academic open house and all-Yusaku Fur~ash1 as h~a~ of .the counseling program. 
Dame, will be the principalcampus picnic will be held. College of Busmess Adm1mstra10n. Two optional programs have celebrant at a Mass formallyOn Monday, September 1, the Dr..David T. Link moves from been approved by Notre Dame's opening the school year on Sep­incoming students will become assoc1ate dean t~ dean of the Law academic couricil for inauguration tember 14. Other officers of the more familiar with the academic School, succeedmg Dr. 'l'homas L. this year. The first will provide University will be concelebrants atatmosphere of St. Marv's through Shaffer, who will return to seniors in the College of Arts and the 10:45 a.m. Mass, and Rev.
a registration briefing: session teaching following a year's leave. Letters the opportunity to select James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C.,
and a student affairs program. Dr. Isabel C~arles, O.P., has been inquiry courses aimed at syn­provost, will deliver the homily.
Transfer students will be invited to named achng dean of Notre thesis, reflective evaluation and a pool party and a movie festival ~a!fi.e's largest academic comparative study by beginning The fall semester will close will feature "The Bells of St. dlvtston,the College of Arts and their major study in the sophomore December 12 and final Mary's" and Knute Rockne, all Letters. while a search committee rather than the junior year. examinations will continue American" that eveninJZ. continues to seek a successor to The second option, known as through December 20. A 
Dr. Frederick J. Crosson, who also Collegiate Sequences, is an thanksgiving holiday is scheduled (continued on page 15) is returning to teaching following a alternative to the present for November 26 through 30. 
require~ent of a departmental Spring semester classes begin major sequence of courses in a January 14 and continue throughdiscipline. These interdisciplinary May 12. The midsemester break sequences would involve at least 24 will be from March 13 through 21
*Observer 
hours of required courses from two and the Easter holiday will be from or more departments, and classes April 15 through 18. Com­in other colleges of the University mencement ceremonies are 

might also be included. scheduled for May 16, 1976, and Where dwells the Gipper? Find out when 
Campus improvemtns during the will see the first women Notre you test your knowledge of N.D. (page 11 
summer have included the con­Dame graduates who have spent 
tinued renovation of LaFortune all four years at the University.Is South Bend weather Ideal? Erv Wesley thinks so. See why on page 12. 
You've made the big journey from home to the ND·SMC community. What to do next? Read Jim Eder's advice, page 9. 
Can Dan Devine fill the Quarlerback gap? See Sports, page 16. 
Terry Keeney reviews Important school Issues on page 3. 

%Observer 

Freshwomen moving In at Lewis 

Incoming class expands female enrollment here 
by Maureen Flynn Staff Reporter 

The remaining two-thirds of this year's freshman class will arrive on campus today to join those who have been here since Thursday taking their guidance tests. The freshman class is estimated at 1625 students, 320 of whom are women. Their arrival marks the fourth year of coeducation at Notre Dame by expanding the current female enrollment to 1300. 
Dean of Freshman Year of Studies, Emi~ T. Hofman, characterized the class of 1979 as a group of "nice girls" and "good guys" who have already demon­strated "maturity and insight in the selection of courses." Although some students found it difficult to make choices, Hofman stated, most of the freshman made good choices and showed a good attitude toward options and electives. The new Freshman Curriculum, which goes into effect for the first time this year, allows the student two options and three electives over the course of two semesters. 
The Freshmen will be introduced to the campus via orientation programs organized by the Fresh­man Year of Studies, the Fresh­man Orientation Committee, and the various residence halls. 
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, university president, will extend the official welcome to the fresh­men and their parents in the ACC ~onight at 7:30p.m. 
Following Hesburgh's welcome, the freshmen will return to their residence halls for hall orientation while their parents remain in the ACC for a special Parents' Orientation Program. 
Sunday morning, the freshmen will meet with their counselors in a special group session designed tc acquaint them with the operation of the counseling program and to provide information on academic programs and regulations. the name of the student's counselor and the place and time of meeting are provided when he checks into his residence hall. Hofman em· phasized the importance of the general counseling session, which he termed "a must for all fresh­men." 
At 11 a.m. C3mpus Ministry will hold a Mass on the North Quad, which will be followed by an in­formal picnic lunch for freshmen and their parents on the South Quad from 12 to 1:30 p.m. Mem­hers of the administration and the faculty will attend the picnic to become acquainted with the fresh­men and their parents. 
In case of rain, lunch for students only will be provided in the South Dining Hall, and a reception for parents will be held in the Center for Continuing Education. Masses are scheduled 
I (continued on page 15) 

the observer Saturday, August 30, 1975 
Urges si-udent involvement 
world briefs 

WARSAW, N.Y. (AP) --Vice President Nelson A. Rockefeller, saying he was "just doing my duty," testified Friday before a grand jury investigating the 1971 Attica prison revolt. 
Rockefeller, who was governor of New York at the time of the inmate rebellion, entered the Wyoming County Courthouse in this western New YORK village as 200 onlookers, including about 25 protesters, pressed against police barricades. 
The demonstrators chan­ted: "Close the Attica mur­ders, make Rocky do the time;thegrand jury is a cover­up, for Rockefeller crime." 
BALTIMORE (AP) James Rand Agnew, the only son of the former vice presidant, was convicted Friday of a trespassing charge arising out of a Peeping Tom incident July 7. 
Agnew was charged af­terMr. arid Mrs. Timothy Frye, a young couple, com­plained that a man had been peering into the window of their apartment bedroom about 2:30 a.m. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -­President Ford and congressional leaders worked out a tentative agreement Friday to restore oil price controls now scheduled to end abruptly on Monday. 
Congress ·has twice refused to pass plans for gradual removal of oil controls over periods of 30-39 months, but has passed a six-month ex­tensionof present controls; Ford pledged to veto the ex­tension. 
an campus today 

saturday, aug. 30, 1975 
5:10 pm--orientation, barbeque for transfer students, holy cross hall 
7:30 pm--orientation, official welcome for freshmen and parents, ace 7:30pm--drama, "backstage,"· o'laughlin aud., smc 
sunday, aug. 31, 1975 
9:00 am--orientation, general counseling session for fresh­men, assigned location 9-11 am--orientation, welcome breakfast for transfers, north dining hall ll am--orientation, welcome mass, north quad noon-1 30--orientation, picnic lunch, south quad. 2 pm--orientation, selective service and rotc presentalon, ace 
2:30 
pm--orientation, sophomore foreign study program Information, c;ce 

2:30 
pm--proemtatoon, fresh­man colloquium Information, rm. 122-123 hayes-healy 3 pm--orientation, Informal mixer for mexican-american students and parents, memorial library lounge. 4 pm--orientation, com­munications exchange hour for I 


. black students and parents, donors room of morris inn 9 pm--concert, "carrots" from chicago, north quad 
monday, september 1, 1975 
1-3 pm--orientation, activities afternoon, first floor Iafortune 
6:45 pm--films, "bells of st mary's" and "knute rockne, all-' american'', Cl'l~ughlin aud., smc. 
SMC president visits workshop 
by Mary Egan Staff Reporter 
St. Mary's College President John M. Duggan says he wants to be a visible president. 
Duggan and Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, vice-president for student affairs, visited the student government workshop Friday in Regina Hall. 
Duggan, a former vice-preside.nt of student affairs at Vassar, stressed the need for an increase in communication and student in­volvement. He said he wanted· studetns and faculty members to feel free to come to him at any 
Transfer events will be staged 
Transfer students will have two 
opportunities •this weekend to 
meet with each other and mem­
bers of the university community. 
There will be a barbeque this 
evening, starting at 5:30 on the 
lawn of Holy Cross Hall. A 
welcome breakfast will be held 
Sunday morning from 9 to 11 
· in the North1 Dining Hall. 
Both events are sponsored by the 
Orientation Committee of Student 
Government. 
time. 

Student Body President Joan McDermott said Duggan's visit to the workshop was very important for student-administration com­munication. "I was really pleased that he came," she said. 
Duggan will be inaugurated Sept. 7, replacing acting president William Hickey. 
Student government held the workshop to start off this coming year. 
SG will have a Student Govern­ment Night on Monday, Sept. 8 at 6 
p.m. "to explain the structure of student government," said 

Leftist military regime replaced by coup in Peru 
LiMA, Peru (AP) -The na­prime minister, army chief of tional radio announced today staff, and defense minister ­that Gen. Juan Velasco has has been installed to replace been removed as president of Velasco. Peru's leftist military regime The communique was dated and that troops have taken over in Tacna, Peru, 600 miles south the presidentiai palace. of Lima, the capital. 
Commanders of the five mili­There were no immediate re­
tary regions in Peru said in a ports of violence although 
television and radio commu­troops surrounded and entered 
nique that Gen. Francisco Mo­the presidential palace in Lima 
rales Bermudez -the nation's at 11:45 a.m. 

ND prayerbook written by students, faculty members 
A new Notre Dame prayerbook for students, "Day by Day," features several contemporary prayers written by :;tudents and faculty members. Many of them focus on current world concerns, using modern day language to seek help for hungry nations, dwindling resources and the economic 
conditions. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college seme!lter except vacations by the stuoents of the University of Notre Dame end St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $\' per semester ($ " per year) from ·The Observer Box' Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

Notre Dame prayerbooks have been published periodically during the 133-year history of the University. The last edition was issued in 1947 and revised in 1954. 
Edited by Rev. Thomas McNally, C.S.C., associate director of campus ministry, and Dr. William_ G. Storey, director of 
Notre Dame's Graduate Program in Liturgical Studies, the 208-page book contains such sections as prayers for All Seasons, Student Prayers on Student Life, Weekly Cycle of Morning and Evening Prayers, Psalms, Quiet Time Meditations, the Jesus Prayer, Confession, . Rosary, Way of the Cross, and others. 
Sings great works in a quality ensemble. AUDITIONS RM 246 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL 
Sign for time outside Music Office. AUG 31 thru SEPT 3 
Mon. 7:30 · 9:00 pm
Rehearsals ..•·wed. 7:30 · 8:30 pm, 
McDermott. SG members said students do not completely un­derstand their government and would like to help them do so. Students wishing to sign up for committees can apply at this time, McDermott said. 
Judicial Commissioner Katie Kearney said the student judicial reviewing boards will select people for the hall boards during the seconc week of September. These boards are for solving problems, stressed Kearney, and they do not involve sanctions. 
SG also stressed student rights and .responsibilities as printed in the Student Handbook. "We want 

233-8383 
i;_ SIERRA SPORTS
.L2216 MIAMI 
SOUTH BEND, IN. 
PANDORA'S 
WELCOME BACK from PANDORA'S BOOKS WE HAVE NEW & USED BOOKS FOR YOUR CLASSES. ALSO ART PRINTS, MAGAZINES & NEWSPAPERS. WE ALSO SPECIAL ORDER BOOKS. COME SEE US AT: 937 SOUTH BEND AVENUE 
OUR NEW 
ai 
> 

' <(
ci 
i 



people to know it exists and that they have rights and something to back them up," said McDermott. 
Student Government will sponsor a carnival for freshmen and transfer students Sept. 4 at 8 
p.m. in the Regina courtyard. Each hall and class will have a booth. The band "Four Hits and a Miss" will play in the Regina North Lounge beginning at 9 p.m. 
Any group wishing to set up a booth must contact Ann Praught (4994) by Sunday night for details. 
SG hopes to have regular office hours this year. The next SG meeting will be Wednesday, Sept. 3 at 6 p.m. 
FOR YOUR BACK PACKING NEEDS 
LOCATION 
Corby 

~~~~~ax~~~~QX~~XD~~ox~: YOU GET HERE. : 
THE NOTRE DAME : ! 
: (Dorothy, the cuisine artist with 19 :
U N IVERSITV C H Q RUS : :
years gourmet ·cooking at Franky's 


BOOKS
•····•·········••··············· ...................•
•
:REMEMBER THE FOOD YOU USED : ! TO GEl AT FRANKY'S??? ! : THAT'S THE SAME FOOD : 
: is J;I.OW at Valerie's cooking the : : same delicious food.) :
. .
i ITALlAN SPECIALTIES_ ~ : : SPAGHETTI :i MOSTACIOLLI fO% discou[Jf : : LASAGNA . :
• with N.D. /.D. • : RAVIOLI : : PASTA FAGIOLI .(Italian bean soup) :
. : 
: (Dinners inc. Italian bread & salad) • : OPEN t BREAKFAST SERVED:
5 0 9
: am pm ANYTIME : : VALERIE'S RESTAURANT : : 801 S. MICHIGAN. SO. BEND :
• 

: (NEXT TO GILBERTS) 289 -0681 : 
~~~~~~oooooooooooooooooooooooooo~~oooo~oo~-••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••,••••••••••• 
• 

~----------­
~------~----------~-~---­
-~--~­


the observer 
·---­
New students to face past issues 
Lewis Hall Courtyard. 

I DIRECT DfAMOND IMPORTERS ~ 
f i\V'C'JEWEL~RS i 
VA... SINCE 1917: 
•• ('J 

Downtown South Bend ~ Town & Country Shopping CPntPr 1 Concord Mall, Elkhart 'Blackmonds, Nil~s ~· 
X 1 f-,1 I fOI'' ff'll' lf'll I 101 I fOI I 101 I fOI I fOI I O(JI I 
SPECIAL 10% DISCOUNT ON ALL MERCHANDISE TO NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S STUDENTS 
•
Don't get caught 1n the crowd···Send an Observer h~me 
today! 
Here's how to order. "f~. 
}3-::ff·
r.;r.-: ,.1; r ~ r;/IA b

....................•.....;.·..·..;..
•
•
• Name 
•
Please print • 
Address
•
and include • 
•
zip code. •• 
• D 1 semester $1 0
• 
• D 1 year $18
• 
by Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief 
Freshmen and transfer students coming to Notre Dame this weekend will begin to experience the issues faced in recent months by the Notre Dame student body. Within the last year students have expressed concern over parietals, coeducation, campus housing, alcohol use, and, in perhaps Ute most unified student protest, the price of student season basketball tickets. 
Aglance at the history of several student issues reveals part of the Notre Dame new students are entering. 
Committee on Undergraduate Life 
In October, 1974 the Board of Trustees commissioned a Com­mittee on Undergraduate Life (COULl to report to them on issues of student life. The committee, composed of students, facutly and admistrators, examined five categories of student life; on­campus and off-campus living, student affairs, academics, coeducation and university finances. 
In a 102 page report which the Committee described as "a working model for a Catholic University," the committee made the following recommendations: 
--Co~d housing by converting either Keenan or Stanford Halls 
Badin houses grads 

Un.dergrads now in Lewis 

Lewis Hall, a graduate women's dormitory since 1965, officially opens its doors today to un­dergraduate women and Badin 
' Hall will house the displaced graduate students. Last February Father James Burtchaell, University Provost, announced that undergraduate Badin Hall would be converted to a temporary grad dorm and the undergraduate women would move to Lewis Hall. , In the fall of 1976, Badin will revert to an undergraduate dorm upon completion of a proposed housing complex for graduate students at an undisclosed site. 
However, these plans are unclear. Lewis Hall, which contained only singles for graduate women, was converted into doubles to handle the freshmen 'women accepted this year. The dorm will house 4 seniors, 49 juniors, 40 sophomores and 188 freshmen. 
To accommodate the women, a trundle bed was added to each room, as were desks, towel racks, bulletin boards and coat racks. There is a kitchen on each of the four floors, with many parlors, lounges and study areas available. The game room is· not yet com­pleted and a music listening room was converted into a food sales into a women's dorm; 
--Greater student invovlement in 
neighborhood groups surrounding 
the university. 
--Improve the student Life 
Council as a body. 
--Offering more academic courses with greater variety. --Hire more female faculty. --Make a greater commitment to 
women's sports by elevating them 
to varsity status. 
These proposals, made before 
the Trustees in May, will be 
referred to the University officials 
responsible for acting on them, 
according to Student Body · 
President Ed Byrne. 
"It is my intention to get in touch with the committee members who are returning this fall and do a follow-up report for the October Trustees Meeting," Byrne said. 
Alcohol Regulations 
Byrne predicted that Student Government would be active in revising guidelines for the use of alcohol on campus. 
As a result of a decision by the Indiana Supreme Court in early 1974, the policy of then Dean ofStudents John Macheca to permit regulated hall and section parties and drinking "in moderation" was reversed. Macheca issued a directive in August, 1974 to prohibit all un­derage drinking on campus. 
As a result of the directive, the Ombudsman Service last year began the "Quickie," a shuttle bus to Michigan. The legal drinking age in Michigan is 18. The "Quickie" will continue this year, sponsored by the Student Union Social Commission. 
Student Government joined other Indiana colleges in the In­diana Student Association to lobby for lowering the drinking age. 
Basketball Tickets 
The issue that drew the most 

student reaction was the an-. drive last may failed to collect 
nouncement last October that student season basketball tickets would increase in price from $14 to $28. Assistant Athletic Director Colonel John Stephens explained that the increase was due to rising costs of the athletic department. 
After a threatened student boycott of the basketball games, then SBP Pat McLaughlin arranged a compromise with Fr. Edmund Joyce, University exectuvie vice president. 
Under the compromise, cushioned seats were sold for $21, bleachers for $14. It also provided 
that all basketball seats for 1975-76 season be sold at $28.  the  
Off-Campus  
The  1400  students  living  off­ 

campus last year faced problems of crime, rising food prices and 
area. The sewing rooms were also converted into double rooms. 
There are no detex doors that are common on the otht!r women's dorms. Instead, each resident will be issued a key to the front door. 
other features of the dorm are an outdoor patio area, chapel, and mini study lounges. Also, one of the study areas is air-conditioned. Brother Kiernari Ryan, assistant vice-president of business affairs, explained that because of these 
extras, the cost to live in Lewis Hall would be about the same price as Flanner and Grace Halls. 
Only Badin residents who were forced to move last year will pay a lower price. "It is only fair to let Badin residents pay the same rate because they were moved in­voluntary," said Brother Ryan. 
In Badin Hall, the rooms were all 
adapted to singles and kitchens on 
each floor were added. There are 
also sewing rooms located on the 
fourth floor. 

neighborhood disharmony. Students living in certain high­crime areas surrounding the campus were vUlnerable to rob­bery and burglary. 
In a study by Fr. Thomas Tallarida, director of Off-campus housing, 36 burglaries and 11 robberies were reported during a one-month period . The average losswas$400 per theft. 
To meet rising food prices, Student Government proposed a co-op to sell food, clothing, an'd records to members at wholesale prices. The co-op membership 
enough five-dollar memberships to make the co-op possible, Byrne said. 
Byrne said that Student Government will re-open the membership drive in September. "The place we get will be deter· mined by the number ogf people that sign up," he said. 
In a move that may have a long­range effect on off-campus housing the South Bend Common Council passed a resolution to ,prohibit more than two unrelated persons form living in the same household i'l a.reas of the city zoned for one­_family_dwejlings.
'-------­
m~r atolonial 
Jnncnkr ~nu.ar 
"Enjoy a snack or 
,.::::::~:=======:=====:==========::::::::::::========!===========:====:======:=:=:=:=:::=:==• 
;:;: 35 Varieties of Pancakes :;:: 
::::chicken -Steak -Sandwiches :;::
JFriday Nites: Perch Dinners :~~~: 
=a=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=::::::::::::=:===========~==========================================:# 
Your Host

U.S. 31 ( Di~ieway) North (Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards, NO '50. 
-~ 

=-=S=P=E=C=IA=L=W=E=E=K=E=N=D=R=O=O=M==R=A=T=E=S=F=O=R=:::!., NOTRE DAM·E PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$6~!1e occupanr.v $895 Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just 
mentior this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. except home football game weekends. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North ~ . ..;th Bend, Indiana 466J7 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. 
Send this ad to your parents 
Parletals 

In April the Student Life Council changed the hour at which visitors of the opposite sex may enter a residence hall. Parietalhours may now begin at 11 a.m., instead of noon. 
The SLC rejected a proposal to extend visitation cutoff hour from midnight to 1 a.m. 
THE RESUME PLACE 
25 8 1/2 X 11 
RAG BOND 
Only $2.55 
insly·prints · 
203 N. MAIN 
SO.BEND, IND 
289-6977 
================:; 
~ 

dinner" 
----~-----~ 
4 the observer Saturday, August 30, 1975 

President in 1952 



Fr. Hesburgh in 24th year at Notre Dame 
Rev Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., is in his 24th year as head of the University of Notre Dame, and almost four of five living alumni have his name on their diploma. 
His career illustrates the m~ny­faceted role of a contemporary leader in American education, which highlights the increasingly interrelated areas of education, government and public affairs. Over the last decade, Hesburgh has been involved in national studies of race relations, higher education, campus unrest, and volunteer armed forces. President Gerald Ford named him to a nine­member board to administer clemency to Vietnam War draft dodgers and deserters. 
His chief contribution on the national level has been in the area of civil rights. Appointed to the 
U.S. Commission on Civil Rights by President Dwight D. Eisenhower when the commission was established in 1957, he was named its chairman by President Richard M. Nixon in 1969 and served in that capacity until ·his resignation at Nixon's request in November. 1972. 
Since leaving the Civil Rights Commission, Hesburgh has been very active as chairman of the Overseas Development Council, a Washington-based private organization formed in 1969 to promote effective aid to un­derdeveloped countries. He has also traveled widely in Third and Fourth World areas, often on assignment from the Rockefeller Foundation as one of its trustees. He once served on the President's General Advisory Committee on Foreign Assistance. Many of his recent writings, including The Humane Imperative, published by the Yale University Press in 1974, stress interdependence of the earth's peoples as the key to human survival in a time of shrinking resources. as a member of the board of the Chase Manhattan Bank, he has em­phasized investment by tran­snational corporations in un­derdeveloped countries. 
Academics 
Long associated with the staunch defense of academic freedom on 
the campus, Hesburgh was awarded the prestigious Meiklejohn A ward of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) in 1970. In nominating him for the award, members of Notre Dame's AAUP Chapter cited his defense of faculty members who had taken un­popular politi~al . and rel~g~ous positions and his widely publicized letter to then Vice President Spiro 
T. Agnew in 1969, which urged a "hands-off" policy for the federal government in regard to campus distrubances. Hesburgh ad­vocated a firm policy for in­stitutions of higher learning in his dealing with violent and disruptive behavior, but was equally insistent in calling for both protection of the right to non-violent dissent by young people and for antional sensitivity to the injustices at the hearty of such protest. The 
academic Senate .of the University 
of California at Berkeley awarded him the 1973 Clark Kerr award for his academic statesmanship and concern for the larger needs of the national community." 
Major Developments· 
Two major developments at Notre Dame during his ad­ministration were the reorganiztion of the University's governance under lay control in 1967, and the introduction of coeducation at the undergraduate level, which was started in the fall of 1972. 
Father Hesburgh has served as 
president of the International 
Federation of Catholic Univer­
sities from 1963 to 1970, and as a 
member of the Kerr-carnegie 
Commission on the Future of 
Higher Education, the key national 
study group on higher education's 
problems and promise which has 
completed its work. He was also a 
member of the select committee 
created by Governor Rockefeller 
to study the future of private and 
independent higher education in 
the State of New York. Hesburgh 
is 'i former president of the 
Association of American Colleges 
and a member of the board of 
trustees of the American Council 

Special awards Highlighting a long list of special awards is the Medal for Fi'eedo111, the nation's. highest civilian honor, bestowed on Hesburgh in 1964 by President Lyndon B. Johnson. He has also been honored by the National Conference of Christians and Jews, the Urban Coalition, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, . the American Jewish Committee, the Indiana Bar Association, tne United ·States Navy, and the National Institute of Social Sciences. Background He was educated at Notre Dame and the Gregorian University in Rome, from whence he received a Bachelor of Philosophy degree in 1940. He was ordained as a priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross  WELCOME BACK FOR GOOD FOOD & COLD BEERCHECK OUT : PENDLE PUB 1( / 4 !11i. NORTH of TOLLWAY EXIT) 1 03 Dixieway South South Bend ( CARRY OUT ) 272-5540  
in Sacred Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus, June 24, 1943, by the late Bishop John F. Noll of Fort Wayne. Following his or­dination, Father Hesburgh con­ THE NOTRE DAME• GLEE CLUB  
tinued his study of sacred theology at the catholic University of America, Washington, D.C., receiving his doctorate (S.T.D.) in 1945. He joined the Notre Dame faculty the same year, and served as chaplain to World War II veterans on campus in addition to his duties in the theology depart­ment. He was appointed head of the department in 1948, and the following year was named executive vice president in the administration of Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., University president. ND president At the age of 35 in June, 1952, Father Hesburgh was appoint~d the president of Notre Dame. His administration has marked one of the greatest periods of physical growth and internal academic  Internationally known men's choral organization A club in which a 100% investment of the individual yields a 200% return. The -Glee Club is not only music it 1.! Notre Dame. Sign for audition time in 246 ~'Shag SUN-WED Rehearsals : Mon. • Fri. 5 • 6 pm  
NOTRE DAME MUSIC CHORAL AUDITIONS R--\)-\.<(. Cft Utv/ ~0 C'Jt6~>~l u~ 'vERsrry c ~~~ G'-'i:.'i:. C'-CfloRus Room 246 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL. Sign for time on the schedule posted on bulletin board outside Music Department office. FRESHMEN SUN I AUG 31 2--5 pm 6:30-8 pm ALL STUDENTS MON I SEPT 1 3-5 pm 7-9 pm TUES I SEPT 2 1o-12 am 2-5 pm 7~9 pm WED I SEPT 3 12-2 pm  

I r 

. on Education He is a director of 
development in the University's
the Institute of International 
131-year hiustory. Today he heads 
Education, the Carnegie Foun­
an institution with a beautiful 
dation for the Advancement of 
campus of 1200 acres~ a
Teaching, and the Freedom 
distinguished faculty of more than 
Foundation. 

seven hundred scholars, and an 
More than 40 colleges and 
enrollment of some 8,500 students
universities have conferred 
from every state in the Union and 
honorary degrees on Father 
more than fifty foreign countries.
Hesburgh, among the Harvard, 
Since Father Hesburgh became 
Yale, Columbia, Princeton, 
president, Notre Dame has erected 
Dartmouth, St. Louis, UCLA, 
two dozen major buildings, and 
Michigan State, Northwestern, 
instituted new academic 
Illinois, Indiana, LeMoyne, For­
programs, many of which were
dham, Wabash, Brandeis, the 
made possible by three successive 
University of Southern California, · 
development programs which
the Catholic University of 
have generated more than $100 
America, the Catholic University 
million over the last decade. 
of Santiago <Chile) and the 
During Father Hesburgh's
University of Vienna <Austria). 
presidency a Freshman Year of 
studies and a Sophomore Year abroad were created. Curriculum revisions were made in Notre Dame's Law School, in Arts and Letters, Business, Engineering, and Science, and a comprehensive study launched to determine the need for University wide reform in the education process. Father Hesburgh has encouraged a marked 'development of student government at Notre Dame, stressing the importance of per­sonal responsibility in campus life. 
He was an early and vigorous supporter of the Peace Corps and was instrumental in establishing the first University-supported Peace Corps project--Peace Corpsmen in rural Chile. 
""~ ~
...... ,_.,.." ....................... , ... .. ,, -··········· . 


Saturday, August 30, 1975 the observer s'
Rector's assistants appointed 
•

Residence halls rece1ve new rectors 


by Maureen Flynn Staff Reporter 
Seven residence halls will have newly appointed rectors this year, and all but four will welcome new rector's assistants. 
Sr. Maria Garlock has elected to move from Lewis to Badin with the graduate women, where she will be aided by staff assistants Pat Fazzone and Ginger Conlisk. 
Meanwhile, Sr. Karen Ann Paul 
Administration reviewed for upcoming year at ND 
.. Editor's note: Administrators play a leading role in the lives of Notre Dame students. Rather than being a far-off collection of deities, administrators are a group of dedicated men and women who play many roles in the lives of all students. For this reason we felt that it would be beneficial to present some of the people who play a major hand in the operation of the Notre Dame Community. 
OFFICERS OF THE 
UNIVERSITY 
Ht>v. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., Univt>rsity provost. 
Burtchaell became the first provost of the University on September 1, 1970. The position was created by the Board of Trustees to replace the vice president of academic affairs. 
A specialist in biblical theology, Burtchaell joined the Notre Dame 
faculty in 1966 and became chairman of the Department of Theology in 1968. As provost, he is directly in charge of the total academic enterprise and in­directly supervises student affairs. 
He is a fellow and trustee for the University and. serves as acting president in the absence of the president. He also chairs the Committee on University Priorities. 
Currently an associate professor, Burtchaell is an ex officia member of the Academic Council and its steering com­mittee. He also serves on the Committee on Academic Progress and is a former member of the Student Life Council and the Faculty Senate. He is also an assistant rector of Dillon Hall. 
Born March 31, 1934, in Portland, 
Oregon, Burtchaell has studied 
and engaged in research at six 
institutions in this country, Europe 
and the Middle East. A 1956 
"............................................................................................'1J 
; WELCOME N.D. & S.M.C. STUDENTS I 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ = 
~ BARGAIN MATINEE MON. THRU FRI. $1.25 'TILL 5:00P.M. ' 
'-NOW SHOWING --FORUM 1IJ ' 
'-AT:T~~ -~~T6;~~~·;ANT FUTURE, ~ ~ WARS WILL NO LONGER EXISt 
I 


~ ~~RK~~~ ~. ~ 
WINNER•. BEST ROCK 

~ IS FOR EVERYONE ~ 
~ AT: 1:15-3:20·5:30·7:50·10:05 ~ 
k,,,....................................., ...............................~ 
has moved from Badin to Lewis, where she will serve as assistant to the new rectress, Miss Sally Duffy. 
Miss Jeanne Thomas has returned as rectress of Breen­Phillips, where she will be joined by her new assistant, Sr. Margaret Danields. 
Sr. Susan Rosenbach, has left Breen-Phillips to become rectress of Walsh. Joining Rosenbach in Walsh will be Miss Eileen Con­cannon, formerly an R.A. in Farley Hall. 
Rev. Daniel Jenky has taken 
graduate of Notre Dame <magna cum laude), he received his licentiate from the Catholic University of America four years later. 

Burtchaell 
Rev. Jtwme J. Wilson, C.S.C., 
Vice President lor Business Af­
fairs. 
A 1932 graduate of Notre Dame, Wilson worked for several cor­porations before returning to the school as a teacher and ad­ministrator. His job involves the day-to.<fay finances at the school. 
He was born in Pittsburgh in 1911. He has served the business affairs for nearly a quarter­century. 
Wilson is also a Trustee of the University. 

Wilson 
Rev. Ferdinand L. Brown, C.S.C., associate provost. 
Brown has served as associate provost at Notre Dame since September, 1970. In this capacity he joins Burtchaell in supervisinll 
· (continued on page 6) 
over in Dillon, where he will be assisted by newcomer Rev. David Tyson and returning assistant Rev. Oliver Williams. 
Rev. Thomas Stella has left his post as assistant in Dillon to head the hall staff in Sorin, where he will be aided by Mr. Paul Holowczak. 
Rev. Matthew Miceli stays on as rector of Cavanaugh and welcomes Rev. Lawrence Jerge as his new assistant. 
Rev. Robert Huneke !eft Cavanaugh and moved in as rector of Grace Hall. There he and Bro. Michael Ml!Ginniss will welcome new assistants Rev. Charles Faso and Mr. John DiPietro. 
Rev. Bernard Prince has been appointed rector of Morrissey, where he will join Mr. Richard Hunter in welcoming Bro. Charles McBride. 
Bro. Viator Grzeskowiak is to assume the position of rector in Stanford, where he will be assisted by Bro. Rodney Struble. 
St. Jean Lenz returns as Farley Rectress, where Miss Jeanne Early, formerly motel manager, will serve as her assistant. 
Both Rev. Carl Ebey and Bro. Joseph McTaffart return to Fischer as rector and assistant rector respectively. 
. Rev. George Wiskirchen remains rector of Holy Cross, assisted by Rev. Robert Rioux and newcomer Mr. David Porterfield. 

Rev. Richard Conyers will again serve as rector of Keenan, where he will be joined by new assistant rector Mr. Martin Hagan. 
Sr. Barbara Counts returns to Lyons as rectress, where Miss Mary V. Weidler will serve as her assistant. 
Rev. James Riehle, rector, and Rev. Leonard Banas, assistant rector, return to Pangborn, where they will be joined by Bro. Frank Drury. 
Rev. William Presley returns to St. Edwards as rector and welcomes new assistant Rev. Edward Sellner. 
' 

No staff changes have been 
made in Alumni, Flanner, Howard, 
and Zahm halls. 
Bro. John Benesh remains as 1 rector of Alumni, assisted ·, Rev. ·James Flanigan and Rev. Daniel 
O'Neil. 
Rev. John Mulcahy again heads 
the staff of Flanner, with 
assistants Mr. Robert Mor~ m­
thaler and Rev. Thomas GariepJ. 
Rev. Eugene Gorski and Mr. 
Michael Melody return to Howard 
as rector and assistant rector , respectively. 
1 
Rev. Thomas Tallarida remains 'rector of Zahm Hall with Rev. I William Matthews as assistant. 

Texas Instruments 
electronic calculators 
STANDARDS OF EXCELLENCE AT 
AFFORDABLE PRICES 

• All critical components designed and manufactured by Texas Instruments with quality controlled to exacting Texas Instruments standards every step of the way. 
• 
Fast-charge batteries can be fully restored in only four hours 

• 
Calculators can be operated while charging. 

• 
Every calculator is tested by a computer which checks all functions and key operations. 

• 
Every calculator is subjected to jarring impact tests to assure that normal bumps and VIbrations do not cause errors. 

• 
High-strength, injection-molded plastic cases are designed and tested to withstand rugged use. 




• 
Gold-plated switch contacts and stainless steel key activators provide long life, positive action. 

• 
All important structural assemblies are held by machine screws-not glue or plastic "welding"-for sturdy construction. 

• 
Double injection molding provides durable key symbols­even under heavy use. 

• 
Positive-action tactile feedback keyboard assures entry registration. 

• 
Vinyl barrier under keyboard protects components against moisture and dust. · 




Tl-2550 • All components attached firmly to single epoxy circuit board, providing solidity, strength. 
SR-16 
SR-51A 

AVAILABLE AT 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
OPEN MON-SAT 9AM~-5 PM 



the observer Saturday, Auaust 30, 1975

6 
Administration reviewed at Notre Dame 
(continued from page 5) . 
academics at the University. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce Jr., biologist. In addition to his 
(Director of Volunteer Services), Brown received a bachelor"s C.S.C., Executive Vice President. responsibilities as head of all post­Fr. John Mulcahy (Director of on­degree in philosophy at Notre Joyce has served as executive baccalaureate instruction, campus Residence), Fr. Thomas 
research and sponsored programs, Tallarida, Director of off-campusDame in 1938, a master's degree in vice president since 1952. He 
Housing, and Mrs. Mary McCabe
mathematics in 1945 and a doctoral graduated from Notre Dame in Gordon is director of the degree in 1947. He was named 1937 and· did graduate work at Holy University's Environmental <Assistant Dean of Students. instructor of mathematics at du Cross College, Oxford, University, Research Center at Land o'Lakes, One of the administrators in Lac in 1946, assistant professor in St. Thomas College and Belmont Wis. Student Affairs with which the 1950 and associate professor in 1955 Abbey College. A former editor of several student may have a great deal of religion personal
after. serving as a post-doctoral He taught at Notre scientific publications, Gordon has contact is the . Dean of fellow at Yale University in 1951-Dame and served as vice president taken an interest in com-Students. On Jun~ 30, 1975, Dr. 
52. for business affairs prior to 1952. municating science, both through James A. Roemer was appointed
Gordon
Before his appointment as His position gives him authority scientific publications and popular Dean of·Students. associate provost by the Univer­over most matters of a technical media. He is currently chairman Roemer succeeded John A. sity's Board of Trustees, Brown nature at the University. He also of the Science Information Council Macheca, who was named Notre
STUDENT AFFAIRS 
served as acting vice president for does most of the major decison­of the National Science Foundation Dame's first lay dean of students academic affairs in the abscence making on University athletics. and of the Standing Committee on ADMINISTRATION in 1973. 
of Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C. Included in his educational the Communication of Scientific Roemer, a native of South Bend, background are degrees in Information of the Pacific Science holds a B.A. in economics from 
religious studies, law and ac­Association. The Office of Student Affairs is Notre Dame awarded in 1951 and a counting. He is a member of His research interests include an administrative department J.D. degree from the Notre Dame several honorary societies and . the behavior and systematics of with responsibility for the Law School in 1955. He joined the served as an American delegate to such lower vertebrates as reptiles regulation and coordination of all staff of the University three years the Atlantic Congress in London in . and amphibians, and problems nonfinancial and nonacademic ago after serving in the South Bend 
concerning population structure areas of student life. law firm of Roember, Sweeney and 
1959. Joyce was born in 1917 in Tela, 

and dynamics. There are many directors of Roemer. Honduras. He now lives in Corby 
Gordon is a graduate of Emory various services in this depart­University in Atlanta, Ga. <A.B.), ment. They include: Fr. WilliamHall. 

the University of Georgia in Toohey <Director of Campus Athens <M.S.) and Tulane Ministry), Fr. Robert Griffin University in New Orleans <University Chaplai_n), Fr. <Ph.D.). He joined the faculty of Thomas Ch~mbers (~Irector ofBrown Notre Dame in 1958 and has Staff Services), Director of served as head of the Department Profe_ssional Development (ThisDr. Jan....s W. Frick, Vice President for Public Relations and of Biology and senior staff member post IS vacant due to the recent of the Radiation Laboratory before departure of Dr. Robert L.
Development. Dr. James Frick is Vice his appointment to the vice-Ackerm~n to a position at St. Leo's presidency in 1971. College m Tampa, Fla.), BrotherPresident for Public Relations and John Benesh (Director of StudentDevelopment at Notre Dame. He Activities), Fr. Thomas Stellaoversees programs and personnel 
Roemer

in five departments dealing with public relations, development and alumni affairs. 
Bro. Just Paczesny, C.S.C., ViceAs an officer of the University he President for Student Affairs.

also participates in the for­Brother Just Paczesny has
mulation of overall institutional served in this position at Notrepolicy. He serves as Assistant Dame since September 1974. HeSecretary and Officer of the Board had served for one year as director 



$AYE
of Trustees. He is a member of the of student services.
Academic Council, the Financial A native of South Bend, Pac­executive Committee and Com­
WITH THESE
zesny has been involved inmittee on University Priorities. 

educational administration forHe is a former member of the · more than 20 years, including two 

MONEY SAYING
Campt,~s Ministry and Campus years as assistant superintendentSecurity Committees. 
of the Archdiocese of Chicago's 

COUPONS 'IHRU
A national leader in the field of Office of Education.
educational philanthropy, Frick He received his bachelor'sserved during 1971-72 as president 
Sept. 10
degree in 1949 and his master's inof the American College Public educational administration in 1961,Relations Association. 

both from Notre Dame. · Under his direction, Notre Dame · became the first university to 
three successive major capital fund-raising programs. The campaigns generated in ex­cess of $108 million within a decade. 
3 LOCATIONS TO SERVE YOU 
710 W. McKINLEY AVE.-MISHAWAKA (Town & Cour:ltry Shopping Center) 
1702 S. MICHIGAN -SOUTH BEND 
Just 

1807 LINCOLNWAY EAST-SOUTH BEND 
Dr. Robert E. Gordon, Vice President for Advanced Stuclies. Dr. Gordon, is a former associate dean of the College of 
Frick 
Science and noted vertebrate


r----------------­
t THE NOTRE DAME 
I 


Reg. 89'
I CHAPEL CHOIR l 
2 $139
FOR
t Sings liturgical music for Sunday Masses t 
t and All University occasions t
t t t AUDITIONS t : RM 246 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL t 
~ ARBY'S PSW
t Sign for time outside Music Office: 
3
ROAST BEEF SANDWICHES
t AUG 31 thru SEPT 3 t 
~ Reg. '89' 
t Rehearsals : t 
~ 2 $139
l Tues. 6:30 • 7:45 pm l J FOR t Thurs. 6:30 -7:45 pm t ~LIMIT 4 PER COUPON
'-IIt;oupon expires Sept. 10
t Sun. 10:00 am f 
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 







'lo t 'lo'"'" ... I j iJ ~ "' 
Y 

J..'• ..f ', •...·.-i .~ .•.. 
:.:·.·. •••••r..-.. 'ir .. .,·.. ·.,. .................................., 
Saturday, August 30. 197" the observer 
Staff changed at Saint Mary's 
graduate, will handle news Joining the art department, in Added to the modern languages ·Toth will join the music depart­St. Mary's College has an­
distribution for the college. addition to Dr. Holm, are Carol faculty are Geraldo Rodriguez, ment. 
nounced the appointment of five Andrea Bialko and Collen Ann Carter. Kristi Wornhudt and Geraldine Ameris, Lucia Foley Lecturing in psychology will be administrators, three department Donaghue will serve as counselors Kathleen McDonnell. and Gerhard Stigler. Susan Ratwik and teaching chairmen and 23 faculty members in the office of admissions this In addition to Croteau, Robert Sr. Nancy Kenneey, Patricia religious studies will be Fr. Ed­year. Both are recent graduates of 
Pritchard and Aridrea Maurer
for the 1975-76; school year. Mead, Frederick Thornburg and ward Krause. SMC and will be responsible or 
Robert Wilson will join the Jean M. Gorman, a 1972 SMC recruiting qualified students. business · administration depart­·~~·G'~-,
' '-~ ....,~...

alumna, has been appointed J 0 h ment.director of financial aids. She will n T. Croteau will be acting ~1(.
chairman of the deparmtnet of Janice Kemp will serve as 

oversee federal and institutional business administration and biology instructor and Margaret programs and offer· financial economics at SMC. He replaces Cavanaugh and Joseph Bellina Jr. 
/''~ 

advice to students and parents. Farouk Muwakki, who has been will teach chemistry and physics. Terrence M. Green and Michael granted a sabbatical leave. 
Thomas Selsor will serve on the English faculty and MaryFarnam Reynolds were named Joy A. Holm will chair the art 

ASK CHARLIE
Elizabeth Chandfler will join the

directors of the office of department, replacing Sr. Rose 
~
humanistics studies department.

development and public in-Ellen Morrissey. Sr. Elena Malits 
Joining the nursing program will 

A NOTE REGARDING PRESCR!PTIONS
formation. Green will be in charge will chair the religious studies 
be Suzanne Whitehead and Mary

of special fund solicitations and department replacing Harold 
WRITTEN BY OUT-OF-STATE PHYSICIANS
Catherine Kunzer.

M~. Reynolds. a 1969 SMC Weiss. 
OR FILLED BY OUT-OF-STATE PHARMACIES -THESE PRESCRIPTIONS

Registration begins lor fall 
ARE USUALLY VERY SIMPLE TO TRANSFER TO A LOCAL PHARMACY.
classes at So. Bend Art Center 
THIS ELIMINATES THE NEED OF RELYING 
Registration for the Fall classes iuncluded. There are classes in semester. 
ON THE U.S. POSTAL SERVICE OR 
are now in progress at the Art Ceramics, Drawing, Oil Painting, Registrations may be made in 
SECURING A WHOLE SEMESTERS MEDICAL
Center. Classes will start during Art and Watercolor, which offer person at the Art Center, 121 N. the week of September 1, 1975 and opportunities for both the begin­
Lafayette, by mail or by calling 

NEEDS AT ONE TIME 
233-8201. Many classes have a

will meet once a week for ten ning and advanced students. 
MAR-MAIN PHARMACY
consecutive weeks. Detailed class The children's classes cover an limited number enrolleent, so brochures, containing ex­age range from 4 year olds through please register early. Members 
426 N. MICHIGAN (NEXT TO McDONALD'S) planations of courses and cost may age 18. The Pre-School (Age 4--5) receive a 10 per cent discount on 
234 3184
be obtained at the Art Center or by class is held daily as well as three tuitions. phoning 233-8201. classes on Saturday. The Primary A wide variety of 52 classes is Art (Age 6-8) class is held on 
SOME OF TODAYS' MOST WANTED 
being offered this semester. Tuesday after school, as well as Courses in Calligraphic Lettering, three classes on Saturday. Junior Textile Techniques, Book and Senior Art and Junior and 
VALUE HOUSEITEMS AT SHOWROOM SAVINGS! 
Illustration, Sculpture, Jewelry Senior Ceramics are included in Making, Silkscreen Printing, the Saturday classes. A special 
VISIT OUR SHOWROOM
CATALOG/SHOWROOMS
Interior Design, Commercial Art, class for Jr. -Sr. students who 
AND

several Photography courses and a have taken previous ceramics lecture class on Primitive Art are classes will be available this 
Distributors of Fine Jewelry and Gifts. 
COMPARE OUR PRICES 
Your Headquarters for nationally advertised brands
Tourist raft capsizes during test 
eoesk Lamps
• Calculators 

NIAGARA FALLS, N.Y. <APJ The Coast Guard said the 
• Hot pots and plates
eTypewrlters

-A raft with about 30 passen­treacherous rapids prevented gers which was being tested for the use of rescue boats and that 
• Other student requirements
eCameras 

possible tourist rides capsized its helicopters were as much as today in the tubulent lower two hours away. A Coast Guard 
• Stereos & Television all at famous low 

Niagara H.iver, below Niagara spokesman said two police heli­
• Columbia Bicycles VALUE HOUSE

Falls. copters from Buffalo were re­
ported at the scene. First reports indicated that 14 
A barrier of boats was set uppersons had been pulled to downstream from the rapidssafety. The Coast Guard said it "to pick up survivors," thehad no immediate word on oth­Coast Guard said. 

er survivors. 
The Coast Guard said theThe passengers spilled into vessel ·Was reported to be anthe swirling rapids were bob­experimental craft, but thebing about in the water in life­Coast Guard had no informa­jackets, witnesses said. Niag­tion about its size or design.

ara Frontier State Park Police The cause of the capsize waspulled some survivors from the not immediately determined.
river. 
II1i~~J2JJ] NOW . 
-MI~HAWAKA IIVINUI AT 30TH APPEARING 
2 CU. FOOT COMPACT. REFRIGERATOR by.Avanti 

Fealures temperature contra/ Ice cube lray White baked enamel extenar Optional rail about stand available 
VALUEHOUSE 
SPECIAl 
$99.99 



whlle supplies last

above model available In walnut and coppertone finish...5109.97 
SHOWROOM HOURS MONDAY 9:30 -8:30 
VALUE HOUSE 
TUES thru SAT 

• SOUTH BEND-516 N. MICHIGAN ST. 
9:30 . 5:30 • MISHAWAKA-1428 W. 6th ST.
II II 

-----------------~---­
~~The Observer ~ ~ an independent student newspaper Founded November 3, 1966 Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief Tom Modglin Business Manager Tom Whelan Advertising Manager EDITORIAL BOARD AI Rutherford. Managing Editor. Fred Grav'r. :O<ecutive Editor; Jim Eder, E dolorial Edilor Ko•n Gorouard:'N<'WS Editor. Pal ;~anifin. C -mi)"S Editor; Mary Janca. St. Mary's £ clotor Kl'n Hradlord, Copy Editor. Bill Brink, ~ports Editor. TomO'Neil. Features Editor l hr•s Sm•th. ?"'"'to Edt tor Editorio~ls: 2Bl-8661.. Ne-w\: 2B:!;l~1~7!.:1S~---,:::Bu::;':;.:'":.:~':=.;"..:.2:::8l:_·:.,:l4~71~--------ll Saturday, August 30, 1975·  

The Real Orientation 

By this time the new student arriving on ca-mpus has begun a formal "Orientation" to the University: roommates have been met, first beers have been toasted, hands have clasped in friendly 
greeting  between  newcomer  and  
veteran.  Incoming freshmen  and  
transfer  students  have  received  

their first taste of Notre Dame. Such first impressions will give way to the rigors of classes and mid-terms. The problem each newcomer must face is to orient himself or herself to this place--to adjust to what Notre Dame has to offer. Orientation does not end when the parents have game home or when the weekend schedule of events has run out. Orientation is adjusting to the days at Notre Dame as they come. And there are many days ahead. It seems natural now 
to wonder whether Notre Dame is the right place to spend four years. Questions and doubts about the future are certainly a natural reaction for any newcomer to this campus this weekend. But the answers to these questions are not found in a weekend of formal Orientation. Getting used to a place, especially Notre Dame, takes time. Notre Dame is constantly changing place, with new people and experiences that are not known during Orientation weekend. The hard work of studies, the glamor of the football Saturday are still to be experienced. Once this week ends, the real orientation will begin. 
Terry Keeney 

Opinion Freshman Glossary 
Having been bombarded with all sorts of information, instructions, and introductions in the last day or two, you should already be fairly well versed in~ the official descriptions of campus institutions and procedures. 
But do you know the real Notre Dame? Is Freshaman Orientation sincere or is it a­promotional campaign for the bookstore? No one can anser that question for you, but the following unofficial, unauthorized freshman glossary is an alternative to the "party line. 
Alumnus--a being who hibernates in the back of a Winnebago for almost his entire life cycle. He can only be seen on Notre Dame football weekends eating steak sandwiches in front of the Knights of Columbus building. Never totally conscious, this creature is in­capable of walking a straight line, refusing a di-ink or watching a football game ob­jectively. His prime possessio is a photo of• Ara's Ford parked in front of the A.C.C. 
Warning: no matter how boorish or repulsive ' this animal is to you, treat him w1th kindness. In four years he may find you .. job. 
Big Kube--the owner of Michiana's nightime polka palace, Kubiak's. He is this area's answer to Buford (Walking Tall) Pusser. Visit his establishment and you'll see what I mean. 
Burtchaell, James T.--a charmingly sophisticateq Oxford man who serves as the Uni versity Provost. The most visible by­product of his Oxford education is a funny · looking hat he wears .at academic con­vocations. · 
Emil T. Hoffman--is an esteemed gourment 
and shampoo magnate <Prell in the un­
breakable bo ttle), who teaches chemistry on 
the side. He will spoil Thursday nights for 
mc.ny of you with his Friday morning quizzes. 

ric:k thamas 
If you·re curious to see what he looks like, 
stroll into any pre-med's room. There you'll 
find his picture mounted with candles in front 
of it. 
Hesburgh, Theodore M.--president of this 
great university. A man who had an urge to 
see the world even after he left the Navy, so 
he became our leader. He's on campus about 
as often as John McKay. Father has gained 
many awards and honors in his years as 
chiefadministrator here. Most recently was 
elected "Man of the Year" by the travel 
agents of America. 
J. V. Football Coaches--are trusted adviser to coach Dan Devine and are also responsible for coordinating South Bends punt, pass and kick competition. 
N.D. Security--a department of the University created by Dick Tracy. No one has really figured out what its function is, however, it is supected that it is responsible for the care and feeding of the alumni. 
Pre-med students--are an elitist faction of 
very intelligent students who all look like 
James Brolin <This includes pre-med coeds.) 
A typical pre-med student takes dates to "'interesting films such as "Gangrene and You" and "Acne: Facts and Figures." Student Government--something you had in high school. 
Townie--a member of the opposite sex who 
is a resident of the Michiana (as opposed to 
the Notre Dame-st. Mary's) community. He 
or she is usually good for a home-cooked meal 
and a comprehensive run-down of Marion 
High School's football team along with other 
stimulating conversation. These people often 
are heard to say"shucks"and "Golly, I'm 
horny." 
WSND-AM --a radiostation few people listen to, WSND-FM--a radio station no one listens to. 


Dpinian 
Dangling 
Conversation 
ric:h martin 
While at a north quad party last year, I overheard the following conversation between, what seemed a typical male student and what seemed a typical co~d. Becuase the party also seemed typical, the thought occurred to me that I would be doing the fresh­men and transfer students of our community a great service copying down what I overheard. What seemed even a better idea was to delete key names and phrases to allow students to add whatever would be appropriate to themselves. So, without further adiue, I present the following as a public service to the student body of Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
Fill in the blanks with appropriate answers. 
GUY: Hi! How are you? CHIC: Pretty good. GUY: My name is <name) 
CHIC: Oh' My name is (name) GUY: What's your major? CHIC: <major) 
GUY: That'scool. lalmostwentintothat.l'min<major). 
SILENCE 
GUY: Whathallareyouin? CHIC: <name of halll. . GUY: So you're from <NDorSMCl. Doyouknow <nameofchicl? CHIC: No. GUY: How about (name of another chic l? 
CHIC: No. GUY: Hmm. How about <nameof another-chic>? CHIC: Yeah! She lives down the hall from me. 
GUY: That's really cool. So (nameof another chic, above) lives down the hall from you. CHIC: Yep. So, what year are you? GUY: (year at school). <If not older than chic, expect con­versation to end quickly.) 
SILENCE 
~ UY: Where are you from? CHIC: <name of state or large, major city). GUY: Hey 1 I know someone from (name of state or large, major 
city. See above.) Do you know <name>? 
SILENCE 
GUY: 'can I get you something to drink? CHIC: Do they have <name of soft drink, i.e. Coke)? GUY: I'll go check <later) I got you a (name of beer, i.e., Bud). 
They didn't have any (name of soft drink, i.e. Coke). CHIC: Thanks, but I don't drink beer. 
SILENCE 
GUY: I think I've seen you around campus before. What classes 
do you have? CHIC: Oist of classes GUY: You're in my <class) lecture hall! I knew I'd seen you 
before. Did you do the assignment due after Thanksgiving, yetT CHIC: Yeah. Ifinished it last week. GUY: Oh! I haven't even started yet. 
SILENCE 
GUY: Did you go to the concert last weekend? CHIC: Yeah. 
What did you think of it? I heard they were pretty good. CHIC: They were all right. GUY: Who's your favorite group? CHIC: Chica~o. GUY: Really? I know one gf the members of the group. 
CHIC: Farout! Who? GUY: The <oneofthemusicians,i'e. the drummer). CHIC: What's his name? GUY: I can't remember. I met him a long time ago. CHIC: Oh! 
SILENCE 
CHIC: Do you play any sports? GUY: No <Or, "yes" if you count round ball at Stepan a sport}. CHIC: Well, it looks like my friends are leaving now, so I better 
get going. It's been nice meeting you. GUY: Yeah, Say, maybe I'll give you a call this week, okay? CHIC: Well, I'm going to be at the library and my roommate goes 
to bed early, so you better not. I'll probably see you in class. GUY: Well,yeah. Takeiteasy. CHIC: Say, you wouldn't know where Morrissey is, would you? 
the observer 
Night Editor --Dan Sanchez Features --Tom O'Neil, Maureen 
Assistant Night Editor --.Val Sajbel Zurblls Sports --Billy Brink Layout --AI Rutherford, Anne Typists --Tom Modglin, Val 
Reilly, Mary Egan, Lonnie Luna, Zurblls, Howard Halle, Dave Rust Mary Agnes, Val Zurblls Compugraphic Operator --Ber­
Copy Reader --Ken Bradford nard Chip Spina Day Editor --Ken Girouard, Picture Screener --Chris Smith Maureen Flynn Night Controller --AI Rutherford Editorials --Jim Eder, Rich Ad Layout --Pat Russell, Mike Nugent Miller, Tom Whelan 
.-------------~------~--------------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------~----------·------------------------
Dpinian !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Getting Involved maureen flynn 

"It looks like it came out of a gumball machine," I thought, gazing at the golden dome for the first time. Five months later I begged Fr. Sorin 's forgiveness and blessed the dome as the most prominent and useful landMark on a confusingly sprawling .campus 
I had spen't my summer snop­ping for everything I might con­ceivably use and stuffing it into every available suitcase, carton, and manila envelope. I had devoted a good part of the rest of my time to saying, "Yes, I'm going to Notre Dame," and (with a forced smile), "No, I'm not going to play football." 
Suddenly it was all over and I 'found myself in a two-room quad 
with one electric outlet, a view of 
the garbage, and a telephone 
permanently located under the 
sink. 
The following week involved a 
confusing number of meetings, 
greetings, cookouts, and concerts-­
plus classes and housekeeping. I 
came through it knowing how to 
find the grotto without going 
through the bus depot and a little 
bit more about The Role of The 
Student at Notre Dame. 
Last May I drove out of the gates 
for home, leaving behind many 
close friends, an almost luxurious 
two-room suite, and a striped 
umbrella. 
Dpinian 
You've probably been deluged with similar stories this past week and figure something must be very wrong if everyone's going to so much trouble to convince you it isn't. Well, it's not Disneyworld <despite the innumerable lines you 'II have to stand in), but I myself wouldn't want to go anywhere else and I don't think you'll find many who would. WARNING: For some reason it seems to be bad etiquette for an upperclassman to speak well of ND, so allow for the exaggeration of good manners when listening to a description of the rigors of du Lac life. 
The big stumbling block in academics is realizing that you probably won't pull the grades you were 1 used to pulling in high school. You'll most likely get more B's and C's and fewer A's <but then they mean more when you get them--right?!) and give semi­serious thought to enrolling in trade school instead. Just remember that less than 1 percent (fewer than 16 of the 1,625 of you) will actually flunk out. And there's no lack of help from profs, coun· selors, and tutors. Roommates have even been known to have their uses in this respect. 
If you put all of your time into studies and weekend parties, you'll probably drive :yourself· schizoid before Christmas. I know what you're thinking !-you're planning to wait until second semester to get involved in anything, so you can see if you have time, right? Forget it. You'll have wasted four months and will probably convince yourself you really ought to spend more time pulling that B up to an A-. Believe me, once you start doing something--and it doesn't matter it it's Student Government, the Observer, or the Frisbee Club-­you'll make time for it and use the rest of your time more efficiently. Trust me! 
This activities thing, by the way, is a great way to meet people with the same interests. That and the old "What's your name?-Where are you from?--What's your major?" routine are two of your basic tools in a very important part of ND adjustment--Making Friends. You're pretty much on your own here, but you might start with your roommate, your hall section, and whoever's standing next to you in those innumerable lines. 
Having unburdened myself of all 
this undoubtedly useful advice(?), 
I will close with a welcome to the 
club and an invaluable piece of 
wisdom: 
Don't vault out of bed in the morning until you're sure you're ·not in the top bunk. 

Experience and Freshness 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii a nne dilenschneider 
Thank you for accepting the locate O'Shaughnessy Hall. To challenge of life at Notre Dame. reassure you that you are not You bring to du'Lac a newness and alone, several upperclassmen a vitality that is essential to the volunteered accounts of incidents spiritual, social, and academic that took place during their fresh­growth of the Notre Dame family. man year. As upperclassmen, we appreciate One domer had three members the reminder of the excitement of of her family struggle up three freshman year. flights of stairs with a trunk in 95 You may wonder if you are the degree heat, only to discover that 
only person on campus who walks her dorm had an elevator. 
from Breen-Phillips to the Ad­Many 5'2" freshmen sleep in the 
ministration Building in order to lop bunk, while their six foot 
Camment:ary!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Those First Steps 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii ji m ed e r 
So you've made It at last. You've finally left home and made the big journey to South Bend, Indiana, to become a member of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community. 
You've been welcomed by your rector, R.A., hall clerk and the orientation committee. You've met at least 50 people but can only remember the name of your roommate and you've been burlet under an avalanche of Information describing the Ins and outs of this campus. You've gotten all your things Into your room and found out that you've forgotten at least 3 basic necessities. And you've even had your first taste of dining hall food. · 
So now you're reading this newspaper because you have nothing better to do, and even If you did, you wouldn't know who to do It with. You start to think a little, and that can be a dangerous thing. If you think about the past you'll just become homesick, and start to wonder what you're doing here. If you think about the future, you'll just worry about the great unknown that lies ahead, and again start to wonder what you're doing here. 
So your best bet Is just to think about the present. Take things as they come. and at all costs don't start to wonder what you're doing here. Everything will work out. 
You don't believe me, do you? You think that I'm being too op­timistic--that I don't understand the traumatic problems that you're facing. And you persist In worrying yourself senseless. Believe me, there are no situations facing you that haven't been faced by someone else here. It's all happened before, even the craziest things. 
Just ask around and you'll hear some great stories about how absurd things can get at times. 'Talk with the upperclassmen (they love to tell tall tales of past adventures). Before you know It, you'll be telling, stories of your own. 
So don't take things so seriously. You'll make out all right. Now, put this paper down and go out and talk with somebody, anybody. Notre Dame Is not just a place, It's people--the person down the hall, up the stairs, across the quad, and you. The sooner you realize this, the sooner you'll begin to enjoy and profit from your stay here. 
counterpart enjoys the lower one. 
Another freshman walked down his floor on his first day at du Lac and paused to read a sign on his R.A.'s door. It read: "Beware of Dog". 
Of course, there are always rooms which enjoy the special privilege of a maid's visit each morning promptly at eight o'clock when none of the room's inhabitants have class until ten. 
A student once stood in front of the Dome, complaining that he couldn't find the Administration Building. 
You learn quckly not to ask any particularly obnoxious up­perclassman for directions. It is possible, when following such words of advice, to think that you are en route to the Rockne Memorial to sign up for a locker for your Phhys. Ed. class. In all actuality, however, you are walking directly to the power plant on the north end of campus. 
The South Bend weather, as you will soon discover, is decidedly unique. fhe first week of classes is mvanaoly accompanied by a record breaking heat wave. Then you will be treated to northern Indiana's version of the autumn monsoon, the winter monsoon, and the spring monsoon. 
You will spend the next few days in lines at registration, at the bookstore, and at the dining hall. Although you may think that all the upperclassmen know exactly what they're doing, they don't. Like you, we are still learning about Notre Dame. 
This year will challenge all of us, but it is a challenge we can meet together. The upperclassmen are more than willing to answer any questions or to help solve any problems you may have. We can help make your first year at duLac one of the best of your life. You, for your part, remind us of the flexibility and freshness we had during our freshman year. As we discover the aspirations you, as a class, bring to Notre Dame, we are forced to re~valuate our own attitudes. 
Yes, we thank you for coming to Notre Dame. Together we will strive and together we will create the famed Notre Dame spirit. 

Saturday, August 30, 1975 the observer 9 
Cammenl: a ry____!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Rally Sons 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii._ ken r:1ir a u a r d 
As a former hall director of freshmen orientation, there has always been one thing that's bothered me--nobody ever teaches freshmen the words to our dfamous "fight song" and our equally Infamous alma mater. (Have you ever heard anybody try tos to sing It?). ~ 
I have decided to be an innovator and pre:>ent as my gift to the class of '79 the words to both of these songs. The Idea came to me when I arrived this past week at school and was awakened my first morning back by my floor maid slipping something under my door (at 8 o'clock In the morning, no less! l. When I finally got out of bed, I found this stupid looking, triangle-shaped, plastic object lying on the tiles. Picking It up, I wondered what It could possibly be. Upon further Inspection, I noticed the familiar ND monogram. (This didn't surprise me because everyth lng around here has It plastered all over if you've been to the bookstore yet, you'll know what I mean). Anyway, after gazing at this thing a little longer, I say the words tothe alsm mater. Seconds later, I learned that this stupid little thing was sponsored bby Indiana Bell (and you wonder why phone rates are high?). After looking at the direction, I saw that this little contraption was, of course, a pencil holder (God Bless Ma Bell!). 
Such an existential experience at eight In the morning always gets my brain In gearand, as I said, I decided I would present the freshmen with a lasting souvenir. 
Well, enough of this babbling. My first number tonight will be tor the benefit of those who didn't receive the telephone company'.'s gift. It's a sweet little tune entitled "Notre Dame, Our Mother'." 
Notre Dame, Our Mother 
Notre Dame, Our Mother tender, strong, and true, Proudly In the heavens gleams thy gold and blue. Glory's mantle cloaks thee, golden Is thy frame.And our hearts forever praise the Notre Dame. And our hearts forever love thee, NOTRE DAMEIII 
As you can see, this song really doesn't say much. lt'l • nice 
wayto to get alumni crying at the end of pap rallies. As for le• 
nlng the words and melody, don't blow a chemlstryfeat trying tc 
memorize It for a F rlday night pep rally. One thing that you'll fine. 
Is that nobody, repeat, nobody knows the words. All you have, tr 
know how to do Is hum the first eight lines. But then the tricky par 
comes, because you have to really blast out the last two limes. 
Don't worry, though as long as you scream the words "Notr 
Dame" at the end of the song and raise a clenched fist, you'll rive 
any senior on campus. 
And now, here's the one you've been waiting for. My verb. 
concert now presents "The Notre Dame VIctory March Ill" 
THE NOTRE DAME VICTORY MARCH 
• 

Verse: 
Rally sons of Notre Dame 
Sing her glory and sound her fame, 
Raise her Gold and Blue 
And cheer with voices true: 
Rah, rah, for Notre Dame. 
We will fight In every game 
Strong of heart and true to her name 
We wo;; ne'er forget her 
And will cheer her ever 
Loyal to Notre Dame. 
Chorus: 
CHEER,CHEER FOR OLD NOTRE DAME 
WAKE UP THE ECHOES CHEERING HER NAME, 
SEND A VOLLEY CHEER ON HIGH, 
SHAKE DOWN THE THUNDER FROM THE SKY. 
WHAT THOUGH THE ODDS BE GREAT OR 
SMALL? 
OLD NOTRE DAME WILL WIN OVER ALL, 
WHILE HER LOYAL SONS ARE MARCHING 
ONWARD TO VICTORY. 
Some explanatiOn or"'"' auv ..: ""'~a"" "vvv" 1:. sung 1s m oraer. Obviously, everybody In the world knows thetune and the words to the chorus, but If you ask one hundred people here to sing the verse, mayybe 2 will know lt. Once again, don't worry about learning the verse. The hardest thing for you to do Is to learn WHEN to sing the chorus. Allow me to explain. 
When the band of the Fighting Irish plays this song, theyy naturally start at the beginning. Of course, since nobody knows the verses everybody Immediately starts to sing the "cheer,cheer" part. This really makes a mess because the band Is still playing the "Rally sons" part. Imagine, If you can, 130 musicians playing one thing, and 8,000 students slrfglng another. It's enough to make Mitch Miller straighten out his arms. 
I think I've given you enough to think about for this Issue so I'll leave you with two thoughts: First, make sure that you save this column (Put Is on your bulletin board or something• (because you'll be surprised to see how many bets you'll win with just this little bit of wisdom I've given you; Second, have a good year and make sure you enjoy every minute that you spend here, because you can never take them back. 

-----~----­
~~ 
Saturday, August 30, 197.'1­
10 the observer 

Letters to a Lonely God 
I 
l the unsheltered places 
l l l l l l l l l I 

"Toto, I don't think we're in Kansas anymore" 
t 
t 
l 
l I 
! l 
t 
Editor's note: The author, Rev. Robert Griffin. is beginning his sixth year as a contributor to the O~server. Fr. Griffin, University Chaplain, has just returned from a summer abroad. 
His name was James, and he was only 
fifteen years old, and he had come to New 
Yf_-k to visit his friend, who was sixteen. 
James thought that his friend lived in a hotel 
on 44th Street; at least, that was where he 
had caught up with his friend. But in the two 
days since James ha1 come to Manhattan, 
the two of them had hung out mostly in the 
city parks. Now, the friend had disap­
peared, and James didn't know where to 
took for h.m. He didn't have any money, he 
hadn't eaten all day, and the only place he 
knew of where he could find a place to sleep 
was on a park bench. 
In New York City winos often ~;leep in the 
city parks, if they don't get hassled by the 
police. Homeless old ladies, if they're too 
weary to fear violence, also sleep there, 
along with assorted types of junkies, hip­
pies, and derelicts. For all I know, lovers 
may also sleep there; maybe, in New York, 
the city parks are what lovers have instead 
of the beach at Wakiki. But I didn't like the 
idea of a fifteen year old kid, lonely and 
broke and hungry, sleeping all night in the 
park. Even if his friend showed up, I still 
didn't like the idea. At their age, James and 
his friend were not children; but their night 
arrangements were too Hansel-and-Gretel 
to suit me. • 
"James," I said, "how do you happen to be in New York without money and with . only one, very unreliable friend to help 
you'?" 
"I thought I could get a job," he said. "I 
thought I could take care of myself." 
"Did you run away from home'?" I asked. 
At first he didn't want to admit that he 
When Rene Robert Cavalier de La Salle stepped foot in Indiana, there were already a tribe of Miami Indians planted in what is now South Bend. Pierre Navarre became its first white resident when, in 1802, he married a Potawatomi squaw and, in what has become a long tradition, convinced her to stick around until something better turned up. It did. Twenty-one years later, when Alexis Coquillard, of the enormous gravestone on Notre Dame avenue, opened up a trading post on the banks of the St. Joseph River. 
Coquillard called the community "Big St. Joseph Station" and the name was shor­te_ned to "St. Joseph's." Then, when the area was infiltrated by anti-religious forces, the name became "South Hold," which was far inferior in the eyes of Mr. Coquillard to the former name. In 1830, after a long identity crisis, the town became known as South Bend. 
Industry sprouted immediately along the banks of the St. Joseph river. Coquillard founded a flour mill and sawmill. Then, in 1852, the Studebaker Brothers arrived and set up their internationally famous motor company, bringing in thousands of workers, many of whose descendants are still here. 
The Mishawaka community began more than 100 years ago. The town is named after the romantic figure of Princess Mishawaka, the daughter of Shawnee chief Elkhart, who had a village of his own named after him. She had a blazing romance with the white hunter "Dead Shot," and the story revolves around her abduction by Grey Wolf, with a subsequent rescue by Dead Shot. James Fenimore Cooper notwithstanding, the town has grown to what it is today. 
The first white man to enter the present 
day site of Mishawaka was lost. Searching 
for his portage and separated from his 
companions, LaSa:Ie was forced to travel 
east along the edge of a swamp before he 
could regain the river in the vicinity of 
Baugo Creek. <'These names are worth the 
reading of the history.) Spending a night in 
the Indian camp, where it is rumored he 
met Princess Mishawaka, he rejoined his 
friends the next morning, pronouncing lhe 
area "a beautiful site for a town." 

reverend robert griffin 
was a runaway. He kept telling me about his friend who would certainly help him, if only he could find that friend again. I pointed out that his friend's success story, thus far, seemed to be mostly an epic in survival without food or shelter. 
"This City can eat you up alive," I said. "I don't think so," he said. I've had a pretty rough time already. I can beat the City." He told me of his days in reform school, and of his parents' divorce, and of his father, who was an alcoholic, and of the poverty his family lived in. Finally he said: "I'll tell you the truth. I 
•did run away. I came down to the City because I couldn't stand seeing my mother suffer." 
I don't know whether what he finally told me was the truth, or not. He may simply have told me a tale that he thought I wanted to hear. But within the hour, I had fed him, given him some money, and put him aboard a Greyhound bus to Hartford, Connecticut. Hartford was where he wanted to go, he said. It was where his mother lived; and now he wanted to go home and start life with his family all over again. 
"This time," he said, "maybe I can help." 
Hopefully, James did go home, even though it was hard for him. But it was hard for me, this morning, to say goodby to New York City, where the are thousands of kids like James adrift on the streets. Is it stupid to say you love a city--to insist that you are having a romance with a city that con­stantly shocks you with its images of horror'? Last week,"a friend told me how he had watched a man die at midnight of knife wounds on a crowded sidewalk in front of a famous restaurant on Sixth.Avenue. "It was the horrible end of a horrible life," he said; the guy was a transvestite dressed up in evening dothes.'' Two days later, my friend 

a guide to sou.th bend, indiana 
Today, the South Bend-Mishawaka area has a population of over 230,000 people. There are a good many parks, recreational facilities and places of interest, if one takes the time to seek them out. Ever-growing and developing, the South Bend-Mishawaka community offers its citizens the chance to say, proudlv. "It's home to me." 
The St. Joseph River, winding its ·way through the South Bend-Mishawaka area, has given the community a "veritable plethora" of parks and picnic spots. The South Bend city planners saw to it that the citizen's need for pleasant parks and recreational areas was filled. The numerous city parks, zoos and playgrounds provide pleasant locations for Sunday af­ternoons in the sun or any afternoon or morning for that matter. 
South Bend-Mishawaka's parks are used by everyone and there are recreation ac­tivities for all including volleyball, basketball, handicrafts, tennis, swimming and senior citizen's programs, great ego­builders for those under the age of thirty. 
Swimmers have: their choice of medium or Olympic-sized pools, indoor of out, or the beach at Pinhook Park, which is located on a beautiful 15-acre natural Jake tract. 
For tennis buffs, there are 24 courts located at the Courtney Tennis Complex behind the ACC. There are also cc.urts at St. Mary's. At nearby Leepen Park Tennis Center, there are 15 lighted, all-weather courts. Ifthe weather is inclement, the ACC has three indoor courts. 
Golfers wishing to sharpen their game, 
and tiring of the Notre Dame links, can take 
their choice of one of the seven public or two 
private courses in the area. 
Plant and flower lovers can view the 
horticultural marvels of the upper Indiana 
Conservatories at either the Ella L. Morris 
Conservatory or the Mussel-Ellison 
Tropical Gardens in Potowatomi Park. 
The community has two fine zoos. 
Children's Storyland Zoo is located in Rum 
Village Park. On view are deer, llama, 
black hears, chimpanzees, and numerous 
domestic animals, which are available for 
petting and other amusements. 
The Potowatomi Park Zoo contains the said, he saw three policemen carrying another man out of the subway. There had been an accident on the train platform, and the man's hand had been completely severed, and the bare stump was exposed naked to the day. 

My friend said: "Those two scenes haunt 
my sleep." 
I have my own share of images of horror.!think of Jay, a college drop-out I met early m the summer. Jay had come to New York, and gotted mixed up in making sex films involving the least attractive sexual per­versions (No, Virginia. There are no at­tractive sexual perversions.) After a couple of years of this, Jay had grown increasingly despondent, and one night attempted suicide by electrocution. How close he had c?me to succeeding was dramatically ob­VIous when Jay pushed back the hair covering his temples and showed me the deep scars where the wires had burned him. Only his rubber soled shoes had saved him Jay said. Later on in the summer, he tried again, this time with pills; but his friends caught him in time, and rushed him to the hospital. 
"Next time, I'm going to California," he said. "The gun laws are not so strict there." I'm afraid that for Jay and his suicide, it's 
just a matter of perseverance. 
But there are the gentle memories, too: the lights hung against the darkness on the bridges and skyscrapers of Manhattan; the 9ld folks too fragile with age to be left alone in New York apartments, where Death may be a caller before you can visit them again. There was the couple who came to our church to Mass every afternoon: he seventy-five and she eighty five; he watches over her helplessness as though he were a young husband escorting his bride to the honeymoon. There was the ninety-three year old, a former show girl, who wanted 
larger ani_mals, bison, lions, and camels, as well as such favorites as the wallabies, dingoes and the "one and only" hairy ar­madilo .. 
The heavily wooded countryside of Michiana has ample opportunity for hiking, bicycling and hunting. .lust ten miles west of South Bend is Bendix Woods, where fishermen drop their lines and hikers enjoy a brisk walk around the premises, a favorite spot for a "day in the woods," including picnicking and general frivolity. 
Just 30 miles away from South Bend is Lake Michigan. The giant lake, with its sand dunes and many public b~aches, is just a short drive away, and well worth the trip. ThenWarren Dunes and the Indiana Dunes have become student favorites over the years for the extreme change of pace and scenery from the univerity setting. ­
1
South Bend is not without its night life. There are several bars in the area that feature entertainment, dancing, live bands, 
1 and all of the elements necessary to assimilate the nocturnal debauchery. The corner of Corby and Eddy streets has become a legendary watering hole for Notre Dame studetns. One can find here four favorite student bars. The newest of these is Bridget McGuire's, which features a '20's style decor, taped rock'n 'roll,a nd an at­mosphere totally conducive to friendly drinking. Across the street from Bridget's is Nickie's, which is just making the change to entertainment of the weekends. Nickle's offers a dance floor, pool tables, and some of the best hamburgers in town, just in case drinking gives you the munchies. The black exterior of Corby's may scare the unintiated away and a look at the clientele after midnight may also do the same, but to those who call it home, Corby's offers the ultimate in the the drinking ex­perience. Take it as you can. Moving away from the infamous corner, one can head up South Bend avenue to Louie's, which becomes more of a bar than a restaurant as the night wears on, but still retains its jolly atmosphere. In South Bend are two bars of note : Sw~eney's and Fat Walley's. Sweeney's is 
me to hold her hand after I had brought Communion. 
"I never did have much luck with husbands," she said. "The last one got drowned." We meditated together on the spectacle of mortal flesh succumbing to wetness. 
"When I was eighty five," she said, "a fella proposed to me. He was only seventy­seven, but he drank, and I wasn't going to put up with that." So she Jived alone, a widow still, in a run-down hotel, where the roaches ran around in the sugar spilled on a kitchen table. 
Do I make the City sound sad and sick and decadent, a place where shabbiness and horror win all the battles? Does New York seem like a tragic and defeated island, best buried in the depth of the sea? Let me assure you that the weak and the old survive in New York because there are men and women, strong and beautiful, who, through their love and sharing, give some of the victories to Christ. The Caring Community, they sometimes call themselves. I have been with the Caring Community this summer, and some of them, without knowing it, have cared for me. Some of them who have cared most deeply don't even realize they are caring at all, and I suspect these are the Chri~tians the Lord loves best. 
This morning, as I returned by plane to South Bend, I thought of James riding the Midnight Express bus to Hartford. Con­necticut. He wanted to go home to Hart­ford, he said, to start life with his family all over again, although he was sure he could beat the City. I wondered how his homecoming was. I wondered how my own homecoming at Notre Dame would be. For a long while I felt like a fifteen year old who has been over-exposed to and in the un­sheltered places. 
. ' 

everything you could imagine in a Notre Dame bar. Fat Wally's is a bar-night club frequented by those slightly above student age; they have entertainment five nights a week. 
In Mishawaka, one can find Bill Nagy's Hideaway, which calls itself "Michiana 's Top Rock Night Club"; they have dancing every weekend, and highlight the occasional concert. 
For those who can't prove that they are 21 years of age, Michigan is the place to go. If you like to dress up and arent' afraid of an expensive evening, Shula's may be a good pick. There is a large dance floor and the bar is able to serve whatever exotic or outrageous drink you may desire. But this is not for the weak of pocketbook. 
Also, for those who prefer a rowdier crowd and less expense, there is the White House. It is frequented by a large group of local people and is rated by some as worse than Kubiak's. 
Kubiak's. Kubes. This is the place of the 
famous Junior Class Happy Hours. If you 
enjoy not. getting dressed up, drinking 
watered down beer, listening to a scratchy 
Credence Clearwater Revival-type band, 
singing "In Heaven There Is No Beer" and 
generally just have a plain good time, this 
could be a good choice. Kubiak's holds 262 
persons <that's what the sign behind the bar 
says) and if you get there late you may have 
to wait to get in. But, it's usually worth it. 
If all you want to do is drink, then Jay's 
may be a good place to frequent. It's very 
plain, circa late '50's, and there is a limited 
bill of far if you get the munchies. One 
hundred years ago. 
One hundred years ago, shopping in South Bend was extremely limited. Most of the women made their own clothes, as well as the clothing of their families. Food was either bartered for at the local general store, or was entirely prepared at home. Today, the picture is entirely changed. Huge shopping centers dot the outskirts of the city and a complete pedestrian mall fills the center. 
(continued on page 11) 


r 
Saturday, August 30, 1975 the Observer 1 1 
--------------~~~~~~~--~~ 
Test your knowledge of Notre Dame du lac 
by andy praschak 
a guide to south bend, indiana (cont.) 
The University of Notre Dame campus, considered to be one of the most picturesque in the United States, is visited annually by thousands of travelers, visitors, friends and alumni and members of the Notre Dame community. However, many of who live, work and study on the campus year-round are relatively unfamiliar with some of the high points of the campus. 
The following "Campus Quiz'' is designed to inform as well as test the knowledge of those who profess to knowing the campus like the back of their hand. So it's time to get out your pencils and prove to your fellow alumni, co-worker, or roommate that you know more about the campus than they do. 
1. 
The famous Grotto on the Notre Dame campus is a replica of the shrine at a) Fatima, Italy; b)Lourdes ,France; c)Vatican City; d>Bethlehem. 

2. 
The ghost of George Gipp <The Gipper) is alleged to reside in a) Sacred Heart Church; 

b)The Morris Inn; c)Washington Hall ; d>The Administration Bu·ilding. 

3. 
The double-domed Athletic and Con­vocation Center contains more acres under roof than the Houston Astrodome. True or False. 

4. 
The mural-lined walls of the Ad­ministration Building were painted by: a>Michelangelo; b) Ivan Mestrovic; 


c)Luigi Gregori; d>Fr. Flanagan 
5. The first Catholic priest ordained in the United States was Notre Dame's; a)Father Sorin b)Father Badin; c>Rev. Thomas Carroll; dl Father Ted Hesburgh. 6.. The approximate number of varieties of trees found on the Notre Dame campus is: a)lOO; b) 300; C)500; d) 1,000. 
7. The highest man-made point on campus is : a) the cross on the top of Sacred Heart Church; b >The Memorial Library; 
c) Flanner Hall; d >'The Aero-Space building. 
8. "Touchdown Jesus" can be found at: a Hhe footbsll stadium; b) Moreau Seminary; c )Sacred Heart Church; d) The Memorial Library. 9.The total number of dormitories inhabited by undergraduatf women during the '74-'75 schoolyearwas:a)3; b)5; c)7; d)9. 
10. The present Administration building was built in: a) four months; b )one year; cll'fl years; d>two years. 
answers 
1.) 8---The Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes is 
. a replica of the famed French shrine where the Virgin Mary appeared to St. Bernadette on 18 occaisions in 1858. Visiting that site on one of his 50 trips abroad, Fr. Sorin vowed to reproduce it on the Notre Dame campus, and a gift from Rev. Thomas Carroll, a former theology student, made construction possible in 1896. Boulders weighing as much as two or three tons were used in con­struction. Hundreds of thousands have visited the shrine to pray or light candles over the years, and a major Protestant group conducted some services on the site in recent years. Here, too, is a reproduced letter from a famed Notre Dame graduate, Dr. Thomas A Dooley, to Fr. Hesburgh which was written only six weeks before his death in Southeast Asia ... "If I could go to the Grotto now, then I think I could sing inside." 
2. > c Washington Hall is the 858-seat auditorium that has served as a stage since 1881 for concerts, dramatic productions and 
ectures by many of the world's leading figures in the arts and sciences. Kept alive here by the students is a legend that the ghost of George Gipp, the All-American football player from 1917 through 1920, wanders nightly through the building. He lived on one of the upper floors and served as a fire guard. 
3.) True. The double-domes Athletic and Convocation Center houses virtually all Notre Dame Varsity sports, including basketball and hockey, as well as indoor facilities for those who want to unwind after strenuous classroom periods. In the unending network of tunnels are rooms for handball, squash , boxing, wrestling, fen­cing, weightlifting, jogging, lacrosse, soccer, rugby, skating, baseball, tennis and just plain exercising. Of equal importance in the l01h acres under roof, more than Houston's Astrodome, is the ability of the University to schedule academic, cultural, religious and civic events in the largest arena between Chicago and Detroit. Sharing parking facilities with the football stadium, the ACC can seat 12,000 under one dome and 5,000 under the second for simultaneous events that often include performances of the Ringling Brothers circus, Ice Capades, extravaganzes, home and mobile home shows, family en­tertainment, nationally famous bands, orchestras, instramental groops and per­formers. Friends of Notre Dame in the south Bend area helped to finance the 8.6 million dollar facility which opend in 1968. 

.. 
4.) C--Luigi Gregori (1819-1896) was a Vatican artist who came to Notre Dame to add his talents to the Administration Building and Sacred Heart Church. The murals, depicting the arrival of Colombus into the New World were painted using faculty and administrators of the time• as models. Fr. Walsh was used as a model for all figures of Columbus except for the scene on his death bed where Father Sorin was used as a model. 
5.)B---Interred lbeneath the Log Cabin, a replica of the one where the University was founded in 1842, is the body of Fr. Stephen 
T. Badin, the first priest ordaim:d in the United States and the man who donated the site of his Indian Missionary Church so that Fr. Sorin might found Notre Dame. 
6.) C---The campus contains some 5,000 trees of 500 different varieties. The campus itself spreads across 1,250 acres. 
7.) A---Sacred Heart's steeple rises above all other man-made structures on csmpus, 230 feet. By contrast, the 14-story Memorial Library is 210 feet high, and the Dome rises 206 feet above ground. 
8. )D----The towering figure on the front of the Library can be seen plainly through the goal posts of Notre Dame stadium. This fact, plus the particular placement of the arms have contributed to its affectionate 
name of "Touchdown Jesus". More. than 
7,000 pieces of granite, 81 kinds and 171 
different finishes, from 16 countries and 
several states in the U.S. were used by the 
artist, Millard Sheets, to form the mosaic. 
The head of Christ is nine feet tall and 
consists of 115 pieces. A Minnesota granite 
company <Cold Spring) installed the mural 
after first laying out part of it on a 
basketball court and the other section on a hometowm football field. 
9.) B---Five dorms were resided in by un­dergraduate women. They were Badin Breen-Phillips, Farley, Lyons and Walsh Halls. This year undergraduate women will move from Badin to Lewis hall, while the gra~uate w?':"llen will take their place in Badm, awa1tmg the completion of a new 
graduate student facility. 
10.) A--Built in 1879 . the Administration 
Building with its famed Golden Dome replaces an earlier six-story structure destroyed by fire on April 23, 1879, and was constructed by a volunteer band of clerics, students and laborers much as it appears today, in time for September clasess. The yellow bricks in this and neighboring buildings were made from marl taken from the nearby lakes. 
Scores: 
10 correct .......... A Golden Domer 
8 or 9 correct ....... A silver Domer 
6 or 7 correct.. ..... A Bronze Domer 
The preparation in South Bend for the bicentennial~~:oes beyond the painting of fire hydrants. New center, "Century Center," is scheduled to be completed and opened on July 4, 1976. It will house a convention center, an art center, recreation and education facilities, the Studebaker Museum <in this corner, the 1957 Rambler) and a theatre for community events. It has been architecturally designed to com­plement its location on the banks of the St. Joe. 
The River Bend Plaza, along Michigan Street, is the core of the retail area in South Bend, and offers a relief for shoppers tired of the sterile shopping center atmosphere. The pedestrian mall, with canopy-covered walks, trees and plantters, pools and sculpture, and many other attractive conveniences, offers a unique shopping experience. Most of the stores welcome the casual browsing which the mall lends itself to. The plaza is also a center for civic and community activites, such as the welcoming of President Ford. 
At the 100 Center, you can wind your way upstairs and downstairs in the main building of the brewery, or step outside for a venture into one of the annexes. The 100 Center also features an excellent movie theatre, which shows films long after th ~y have seen their premiere days, but at a much deflated rate. 
~ I '' '' ) • 
The unusual experience of the 100 Center include a venture into the cheese world to a discovery in the art gallery, a meal in what once was the brewery's ice house, even a visit to the former stables which have been converted into an antique shop. 
Farmer's Market can offer you an ex­citing morning trip. Crowded aisles of jostling shoppers make their way through bins of fruits and fresh vegetables in this old-world atmospgere. Fresh flowers during this time of year add a touch of festivity as shoppers purchase fresh meat and fowl, and eggs that are practically still warm from the hen. The small restaurant serves excellent breakfasts at very reasonable rates. Remember, come early, you're on farmers' hours. 
Close to the Notre Dame campus is the Town and Country Shopping Center and the newly-formed College Square complex. The Town and Country features more than 40 stores, restaurants and shops, as well as a mini-mall and movie theatre. The College Square features a tobacco shop, a jewelry store and a record shop. 
So, you are tired of the Dining Hall food or your roommates' attempts at cooking. The Michiana area has numerous spots to ap­pease the choosiest palate or just fill your stomach at prices that range from inex­pensive to "bring your American Express Card." 
One of the best places in town, no holds barred, is the Down Under. Excellent at­mosphere, service, food and beverages 
' ' \.'I, f, ., ~ ·I f ~ ' f'" ' 

make this spot what it is. You will also walk out with a smaller bank account but it is well worth the price. Definitely a great place if someone else is picking'>llp the tab. 
Another favorite for the local epicureans is The Boar's Head. It offers excellent beef entries with some seafood available. Their salad bar is not fancy but it is good. The atmosphere is old-world. For those who have never been there, the service is unique and good. They do not accept reservations so you may have a wait. But, there is a cocktail lounge where you can spend your time waiting. The prices here are ex­tremely reasonable for the quality of food that is served. 
Ifyou want to stay close to home, you may want to try the Morris Inn. The food is not fantastic but it's good with the prices they have the food should be good if not fantastic. 
The dining room is nice and you will have a pleasant view of the Notre Dame Golf Course. And, as the Morris Inn is on the campus, youmay catch a glimpse of your favorite administrator or coach eating here. 
There are other fine restaurants in South Bend--the Capri, just down Angela Boulevard, offers fine Italian food in an undisputably Italian-American setting. The Hans Haus, on 31 just past the River Bend Plaza, offers distinctive German-American food. Large portions, pleasant atmosphere and great service make this a fine place for a meal. In Mishawaka, Holly's Landing is on the banks of the scenic St. Joseph River and offers a fine salad bar and very good food at good prices. 
Of course, for those in the low-income bracket, we find three McDonald's in the area, all of them on U.S. 31, or you can settle into an Azar's Big Boy, of which there are two in the area. Never lacking in fast food franchises, the area also offers a Burger King, several Kentucky Fried Chicken stands and various independent fastfood havens. 
Now, if all of that is too much for your sensitive taste buds, there is some recourse in just a slightly higher price beacket. The first of these is the J&J Grill, which also is one of the finer 24-hour spots in town. The service is good, the prices are reasonable and the food is adequate. The J&J also offers a juke box and pinball machine. Who could ask for more? 
Other 24-hour spots are Denny's, the White House in Mishawaka and the White House on the Michigan line (or somewhat near there). 
Now, getting into the heavier scenes, as they say on FM radio, we have the many fine pizza and snack places in the area. Just down Notre Dame Avenue is the colorful Louie's. Louie himself is quite a character, and the atmosphere reflects his jolly spirits. 
Down the street and down the hill ,.. Milano's which features "East Coast Piz­za," whatever that is. In the River Ben~ Plaza, next to the Morris Civic, is the Roma, home of concert goers and other assorted clientele, and the only pizza place in the area that delivers-or just about. 



12 the observer ~turdav, Auaust 30, 1975 
Is it normal? 

Whether we can weather South Bend weather 
by Kate Bernard Staff Reporter Excluding earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, floods and tornadoes, weather is usually not one of the more interesting topics of ~on­

Good weather versation. 
For most people it isn't. ND­SMC students, however, can't seem to avoid it. 
For example, no one quite un­derstands why there was only one good day of spring last semester. Or after having roasted one hot September because the only clothes you brought were winter ones, you come prepared for next year with shorts and 1'-shirts, only to greet bitter, cheek-biting winds. 
But what is normal weather? In 
April it may be 24 days of rain or a 
White Easter. 
Most South Benders would not 
label the weather here as anything 
more than diverse. It only is a 
matter of learning not to expect 
four season, each three months 
long-<>ne chilly, one freezing, one 
warm and one very hot. 
Erv Wesley of the Weather Service Office, does not agree that South Bend weather is peculiar. He calls it "Ideal." 
It is neither to hot nor too cold, too wet nor too dry. The con­sistently hot weather in Florida and Arizona and the consistentlv cold weather in Canada is just boring," Wesley said. 

Though some might like to see a bit of the consistency of the South, thtere are two characteristics that are almost always applicable to South Bend: humidity and cloudiness. The heat and humidity 
1 make summer work unbearably
. tiresome. The humidity in the winter makes it seem colder than it actually is. 

The cloudy days outnumber clear days 2.5 to 1 every year. This August, the cloudy days out­
1numbered the sunny days 5 to 1. 
Winter dominates the year. It often lasts six months. Fall and spring last between one afternoon to a month-and-a-half. 
The earliest it has snowed since 1940 was September 18, and the latest was May 30. Snow is always around in April. On an average, May 2 is the date for a temperature below freezing. 
Because the cold air from 
Canada and the warm air from the showers and thunderstorms. Low Gulf usually clash in the Midwest, near 68. Partly cloudy and slightly March, April and May are tornado cooler Sunday. High near 85. months. 
March is the most violent. In­
diana has about 44 tornadoes during the month but most could fit in a small room. 
Is South Bend somehow protected from tornadoes.? 
It is in a river valley, Wesley says, but that is not enough. "We happened not to have been hit by one ... yet." 
INDIANA ZONE FORECAST 
1-2-3-4-5--8: Mostly cloudy Saturday, with about a 60 percer:t chance of rain showers and thunderstorms. Highs 84-88. 

Mostly cloudy Saturday night, with a 30 per cent chance of rain 
The uncompromising ones. 


The calculations you face require no less. 


Today, even so-called "non-technical" courses (psych, soc, bus ad, to name 3) require a vari­ety of technical calculations-complicated cal­culations that become a whole lot easier when you have a powerful pocket calculator. 
Not surprisingly, there are quite a few such calculators around, but ours stand apart, and ahead. We started it all when we introduced the world's first scientific pocket calculator back in_ 1972, and we've shown the way ever since. 
The calculators you see here are our newest,­the first of our second generation. Both offer you technology you probably won't find in compet­itive calculators for some time to come, if ever. 
Our HP-21 performs all arithmetic, log and trig calculations, including rectangular/polar conversions and common antilog evaluations. 

It's display is fully formatted, so you can choose between fixed decimal and scientific notation. 
Our HP-25 does all that-and much, much more. It's programmable, which means it can solve automatically the countless repetitive problems every science and engineering student faces. 
With an HP-25, you enter the keystrokes necessary to solve the problem only once. Thereafter, you just enter the variables and press the Run/Stbp key for an almost instant answer accurate to 10 digits. 
Before you invest in a lesser machine, by all means do two things: ask your instructors about the calculations their courses require; and see for yourself how effortlessly our calculators handle them. 
Both the HP-21 and HP-25 are almost certainly on display at your bookstore. If not, call us, toll-free, at 800-538-7922 (in Calif. 800-662-9862) for the name of an HP dealer 
near you. 
HEWLETT~~ PACKARD 
Sales and service from 172 offices in 65 countries. Dept. 658B, 19310 Pruneridge Avenue, Cupertino, CA 95014 
615/28 

*Suggested retail price, excluding applicable state and local taxes­Continental U.S., Alaska & Hawaii. 
Saturday, August 30, 1975 the observer 13 
-----~~~~~----~ 
Rosenberg FBI files released 


WASHINGTON <APl-A Smith College historian Friday combed through 725 pages of secret FBI files on the Rosenberg in­vestigation, the first documents the FBI has released from the famous espionage case a quarter­century ago. 
The FBI turned over the first installment from the 48,000-page files to Smith College history Prof. Allen Weinstein on Thursday, about three very years after he first petitioned for the records. 
The documents also were being delivered to Robert and Michael Meeropol, the sons of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg who were con­victed of slipping atomic bomb secrets to Soviet a~ents and executed in 1953. The Meeropols, wno use the name of their adoptive parents, and Weinstein had filed separate lawsuits under the Freedom of Information Act to obtain the documents. 
Weinstein called the release of the first batch "an encouraging first step forward, and I hope it foreshadows the imminent release of all the papers." 
The FBI also gave Weinstein 350 more pages from its files on another Red Scare Era spying case, the investigation of Alger Hiss, who was convincted of lying to a grand jury when he denied slipping secret State Department documents to confessed spy Whittaker Chambers. 
The Rosenberg papers includeFBI reports on interviews 

Undecided on running 
Reagan makes no move 
LOS ANGELES <APl ·-Despite A spokesman for the former the warnings of some backers that California governor said, "There is his chance for the Republican no feeling that time and op­presidential nomination may be portunity are slipping away.slipping, Ronald Reagan was There is no feeling that he has to 
reported Friday determined not to hurry his decision." be stampeded into a decision on a Some Reagan backers have possible White House bid. becom alarmed by President 
Judge denies opening of RFK assassination 
LOS ANGELES <APl --A judge 
Friday refused to order the police 
commission to open its files on the 
1968 Robert F. Kennedy 
assassination. 
Superior Court Judge Norman 
Dowds said he was barred from 
such an order by a state law 
exempting law enforcement bodies 
from requirements of public 
disclosure laws. 
The CBS network and Paul Schrade, a Kennedy supporter who was wounded at the Ambassador .Hotel the night the New York senator was killed, had filed suit seeking public disclosure of the 
commission's files. 
The Los Angeles City Council 
recently joined a growing group of 
persons and organizations who 
con tend that certain evidence 
related to the assassination may be 
conflicting. Among the unan­
swered questions, they say, is the 
number of guns fired in the hotel 
pantry. 
Evidence at the trial of Sirhan B. 
Incoming Frosh 
dies in crash 
Freshman Kenneth Galie died 
early Thursday when the car he 
was driving struck an abutment. 
Galie, who was accompanied by 
Thomas M. Feifar, also an in­
coming freshman, died shortly 
after the accident occurred about 2 
a.m. Feifar was not injured. 
Galie was the son of Mr. and Mrs. Vito Galie of 40 Revere Court, Deerfield, Ill., and attended Loyola Academy, a Jesuit preparatory school in Deerfield. 
Services will beheld Saturday at 10 a.m. at Holy Cross Church in Deerfield. Intentions will be of­fered for Galie at 'the mass on the North Quad at 11 a.m. Sunday. 
IF YOU WANT THE BEST : 
SPAGHETTI, PIZZA or SANDWICHES, 
THEN WHY NOT GET IT? YOU CAN AT GIUSEPPE'S 
71 3 E. LASALLE SO. BEND 
PRIVATE PARTY ROOM CARRY OUTS 233·0951 
Sirhan, convmcted of murder in the case, indicated that the suspect acted alone with a single weapon. 
The commission and police of­ficials have resisted efforts to make the files public, saying that some of the information could embarrass innocent persons connected with the case. 
It no longer 
Ford's increasing political activity and have urged Reagan to an­nounce his candidacy now. · 
Others, however, seem content1 to let the former governor set his own timetable, the spokesman, Peter Hannaford, said. 
Meanwhile Reagan again said he has rejected a possible third party bid for the presidency, saying, "I don't have much faith in the third party movement." Reagan said! 
earlier he felt such a bid would/ 
only aid his political opponents and 
hurt the Republican party. 
In an interview on the NBC' "Today" show Friday, Reagan also reiterated a pledge to an­nounce one way or the other within 
a few months his 1976 lans. 
has to decide who is going to college. 
Your future no longer has to be in the hands of the almighty dollar-your dollars that is. Be· cause an Air Force ROTC 4·year scholarship will pick up the bills. Tu1t1on bills ... textbook and lab bills. Plus, 1t provides good job to go to. And a future for a hundred dollar a month without lim1ts. Travel. Pron)O· allowance for you to spend as tions. Prestige. you see f1t. There are 6500 Air Force 
And at graduation, that ROTC college scholarships in scholarship really starts payjng total. Why not see if you've off. You receive a commission earned one during the last few as an Air Force officer. Plus a years. 
CONTACT ·.. CAPT. M.L. STOCKDALE 
ASST PROF OF AEROSPACE STUDIES UNIV. of N.D. Ph 283 6634 

Put it all together in Air Force ROTC. 
with Rosenberg and his brother-in-"The man got into the car and I law and principal accuser, David drove on while the man asked me Greenglass. It was Greenglass questions about a high-explosive who admitted spying for Soviet • lens which was being ex­
agents while employed as a technician on the Los Alamos, N.M., project to develop the atomic bomb. 
According to the documents, Greenglass told the FBI on June 16, 1950 that Rosenberg once arranged for him to meet a man who questioned him about the atomic bomb project. 
The meeting took place in New York, while Greenglass was on furlough from Los Alamos. Greenglass said he drove to the meeting site where Rosenberg a~d perimented with at the Los Alamos bomb project," said the Greenglass ~tatement. "I tried to describe the lens to the an while I was driving'' 
The day after the Greenglass interview, FBI agents questioned Rosenberg who "denied any espionage activities and refused to sign a waiver"allowing his apartment to be searched, the document said. 
Rosenberg acknowledged that Ruth Greenglass told him about August 1944 that her husband ''was 
the other man, whose name he did . assigned to a secret project at Los not recall, approached him. 1 Alamos," the memo. 
INSTANT CREDIT 
DICK'S ,. 
~.;;
Jlit 5!~~!~E 
American
. E<,?'CORBY Oil Motor 
J1•~RECKER'"8, IMO<CL~?.-VJCE 
I 
BRAKE SERVICE =~" WHEEL "c= DIAL 
ALIGNMENT DICk Kruk ~ Owner 
234_0707 
l 
1102 So. llend Ave. 
South Bend, Ind 46617 
specials.)
-----------------··------' 
., 

WELCOME TO I 
NOTRE DAME I 
AND ST. MARY'SI 
A 10% DISCOUNT I TO STUDENTS & •• 
FACULTY ON PARTSJ & LABOR •• 
\10, .-S \T. iam-1 ljllll SllN. !I am-9pm I
J 

(Discounts r applicable to I 
14 the observer Saturday, August 30, 1975 
Russia to produce less wheat 
WASHINGTON <AP) -The creased purchases from other States, saying the sales will thus insuring jobs for American shipping companies have re­government reported Friday grain-producing nations such as drive up consumer prices of seamen. portedly been pressing for a $16 that the Soviet Union will prob­the United States, the Soviets bread, meat and other foods. The source said for each met­per ton rate. ably produce less grain than are likely to ship less of their Agriculture Secretary Earl L. ric ton of grain carried by U.S. Negotiations between Soviet expected this year, but officials own stocks to East European Butz has said Soviet grain pur­ships, the Soviets have tenta­and American officials over the said the Russians are unlikely nations. chases so far are expected to tively agreed to pay $14 in ship­shipping rates continued all this to turn to the United States to Deputy Asst. Agriculture Sec­drive up prices 1.5 per cent ping costs instead of the cur­week and were expected to re­
make up the shortage. 
The Agriculture Department said new crop estimates show Soviet farmers are likely to grow 175 million metric tons of grain, 5 million tons below an Aug. 11 department estimate and 40 million tons under the goal set by the Russians them­selves before the spring plan­
ting season began. 
Officials said figures supplied by the Soviets indicate fewer acres were planted in rye and other grains than were original­ly planned.
But instead of seeking in­retary Dale Sherwin said East Germany, Poland and other East European countries "will have to tighten their belts or buy elsewhere." 
The Russians have contracted to buy 10.3 million metric tons from the United States and are expected to seek an additional 5 million tons, depending on the actual size of the grain crop to be harvested this fall. A metric ton is 2,200 pounds. 
AFL-CIO President George Meany and maritime unions have called a boycott on U.S. grain shipments io the United over 16 months. 

A federal judge in Corpus Christi, Tex., has granted a re­quest from shippers for an in­junction against the boycott. The International Longshore­men's Association plans to ap­peal the ruling in the U.S. Court of Appeals in New Or­leans, probably on Tuesday. 
Meanwhile, a source said the Russians have tentatively agreed to pay increased ship­ping rates for the U.S. grain purchases. Maritime unions have been pressing for more American flagshios to be used, 
Enters third week 
Coal strike affects rails 
CHARLESTON, W.Va. (AP) 

Hundreds of railroad work­ers have been furloughed and production at the nation's larg­est coking operation was cut back as a wildcat coal strike concluded its third week. 
Nearly two-thirds of the na­tion's 125,000 union miners were off the job Friday in the walk­out which has cost 3.4 million tons of coal, according to the West Virginia Coal Association. 
A few miners, responding to court injunctions or union pleas, returned to their jobs Friday, but there was no back­to-work movement in the coalfields. 
However, the executive board of Charleston-based United Mine Workers District 17 di­rected local presidents to set up weekend meetings to have min­ers return to work Tuesday. 
Tom Johnson of the Chessie 

System said layoffs of work 
crews, clerical help and super­
visory personnel total "well 
into the hundreds." Most have 
been in West Virginia, but sur­
rounding states also have been 
affected, he said. 
Some 300 Norfolk & Western 

Railroad employes had been 
furloughed and a spokesman 
said more workers were to 
have been laid off Friday eve­
ning. 
Penn Central was losing 

$400,000 a day because the 
strike had cut its coal hauling 
business in half, according to a 
spokesman. No Penn Central 
employes have been laid off be­
cause the crews work on call, 
but he admitted the railroad 
"just isn't calling as many." 
U.S. Steel Corp. said Friday it had reduced coking oper­ations at its sprawling Clairton Works near Pittsburgh by 25 per cent because of the strike. 
Clairton normally uses about In Indianapolis, Ind., 72 work­30,000 tons of coal daily in pro­ers resumed work on an Ohio duction of coke, an ingredient River loading dock, but nearly 
essential in steelmaking. 3,000 Indiana miners remained While coal stockpiles have off their jobs. been depleted, major steel pro­
Miners at one of five Ohic 
ducers said the walkout had not sites idled by local strikes re­yet forced layoffs or other pro­turned to work after a local 

duction cutbacks. 

meeting, and in Alabama, a un­A federal judge in Pittsburgh ion official predicted a back-to­consolidated a flurry of legal work movement. 
attempts by steel companies and coal operators to reopen Despite the few who re­western Pennsylvania mines. turned, nearly 80,000 coal min­
About 1,300 miners obeyed a ers were still on strike in West 
court order by returning to Virginia, eastern Kentucky, work Thursday night at mines western Pennsylvania, eastern in Bethlehem Steel Co.'s Cam­Ohio, Illinois, Indiana, Alabama bria County division. and southwestern Virginia. 
0 .C. Carmichael resigns as Finance Chairman 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. <AP) ­
O.C. Carmichael Jr. has resign­ed as chairman of the Republi­can National Finance Com­mittee in a dispute with GOP National Chairman Mary Louise Smith, The South Bend Tribune reported Friday. 
The dispute involved Carmi­chael's plans for a more forma­lized party fund-raising struc­ture, the paper said. 
Neither Carmichael nor a spokesman for the Republican National Committee in Wash­ington would confirm or deny the report. The Tribune said an announcement was expected soon. 
The resignation apparently was tendered verbally to Mrs. Smith and a formal announce­ment may be withheld until a written resignation is received, the paper said. 
Carmichael, from South 
NOTRE DAME CHORALE ANNOUNCES
. 
AUDITIONS for 1975 76 
A highly select mixed choral ensemble 
AUDITIONS HELD IN RM 246 0' SHAG 
SIGN FOR TIME ON BULLETIN BOARD AT MUSIC OFFICE SUN, AUG 31 thru WED, SEPT 3 
Rehearsals : Mon. I Wed. I Thurs. 
6:30 • 7:30 PM 

Bend, also is treasurer of the Republican National Com­mittee. The newspaper said it was uncertain whether he would retain that post. 
The next national committee meeting is Sept. 8-9. If the res­ignation has been formally ac­cepted by then, Carmichael would be free to present his views on the need for a more formalized fund-raising struc­ture, the Tribune said. 
Carmichael was appointed fi­nance chairman by Mrs. Smith, who assumed the party lead­ership post last year. 
The Tribune, quoted uniden­tified sources, said Carmichael has been unable to convince Mrs. Smith to approve the procedures and committee staffing he believes are neces­sary in view of post-Watergate regulations on political fund­raising. 
rent rate of $9. Unions and sume Tuesday. 
General Store 
• Water Beds 
• LEATHER GOODS 
·MAGAZINES 
•Newspapers 
·CLOTHING 
·Posters 
• S;track Tapes 
·CANDLES 
·Jewelry
•Cards 
•INCENSE 
•Rugs 
•
Tapestry 

• 
Bedspreads


• PIPES ·PAPERS 
•Lites 
•NOVELTIES ·BOOKS 
113 West 

MonroeSt 
ONE BLOCK WEST OF THE NEW 
POST OFFICE 
WELCOME TO NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S 
FROM THE CREW AT: 
Uhe WinJjammer 
HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES 

1637 LWW SO. BEND 
INQUIRE ABOUT FREE TRANSPORTATION TO AND FROM CAMPUS PHONE 232-6622 

15

Saturday, August 30, 1975 the observer 
Notre.Dame freshman orientation outlined 
(continued from page 1) throughout the day in Sacred Heart Church and in the various 
residence halls. 
Sunday afternoon, in formation on Selective Service and ROTC ~ill be provided at 2 p.m. in the ACC, while those freshmen interested in 
SMC orientation welcomes frosh 
(continued from page 1) 
by new freshmen students, tran­
sfers and their Big Sisters plus 
administrative officials. It will be 
followed by an ice cream social 
outside and the traditional Liturgy 
and Candlelight procession at the 
Church of Loretto. Mary Egan, 
banquet chairman, stated, "This is 
a traditional affair and I am sure it 
Nill be a success.'" 
Several events have been coordinated with orientation ac­tivities at Notre Dame. Freshmen women from Notre Dame will· be invited to a dessert at Saint Mary's on Wednesday, September 3. On Thursday, September 4, all fresh­men from both schools will have a dinner picnic followed by a car­nival. 
"I'd like to see·more of a mixture of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's girls," stated Amend. "But there wtll be more thing throughout the year. You can't do everything in one week," she added. 
Dr. John Duggarl, president of 3aint Mary's, has an optimistic viewpoint of the upcoming year. "We're off to a great start," he said. "I was very impressed with the resident assistants and lhe facultv here." 
"1 was also impressed with the 
general attitude. You can really 
feel the &lint Mary's family at­
mosphere. It's an open and 
friendly and warm community and 
a tremendous environm(mt for 
learning," Dr. Duggan added. 
Duggan looks forward to facing a 
few remaining problems, such as 
recreation facilities and the 
library, and he is extremely op­
timistic, especially for women's 
liberal arts colleges in general. 
~···········~· 
r_.·-!IJere IS a ••• : difference!!! :
• •e
: MfMRE POif. • MCAT OwtrlSJIIII •
• ftl oltapeumce :••• OAT -·-:CISI : 
SINII Ct.IHI e 

:. L~AT • ••
411ft I Yolum•IICHI1 hamt 
: GRE ••uOr:'""l' : 
ATGSB 
Courna that art •

II c011stanlly upd.altd • OCAJ :
1111• IKthhn lor 
rnttws of ctau •

DAT ltuon• an41or uu •
CrRI ot supptrmentary • 
FLEX ml'":" ! 
Makt ups for

: ECFMG :
m1nd lmons 
: SAT : 
: NAT'L MED BDS ! 
e M011 ciiiMI n•rt 8 WHkl e 
e pr~or to hom e 
• Spr~ng & Fell compoc11 e 
• Some courut offered on • e Motor Compuooo • 
e TEST DATES e 
• MCAT 9-75 NMB'S 6-76 e : OAT 10-75 ECFMG 1·76 : e LSAT 10-75 FLEX 12-75 e e GAE 10-75 OCAT 11-76 e e ATGSB 11·75 CPAT 9-75 • e SAT 11· 75 VAT 12-75 e 
: INDIANAPOLIS : 
• 
6620 Grnnoh"o Dr~v• • 

• 
lnd11nopoho. I nd 462::!0 e • 13171 1142·1267 • 


e CHICAGO CENTER e • 13121 764-5161 • 
~~-~ 
"""'···~·"'"' ~ . 
~ -:·::.:·:..........~.: 
11121,.... •• 
lrii"<NI 1\ ""-to' V $ Col'" 
the Sophomore Foreign Studies From i p.m. to 3 p.m. Student 
Program will meet at 2:30p.m. in Government will sponsor an Ac-
the CCE. Students interested in tivities Day on the main floor of the 
the Freshman Colloquium will also LaFortune Student Center. 
meet at that time in rooms 122-Representatives from the media, 
123 of the Hayes-Healy Center. Student Government, musical 
An informal mixer for Mexican-· organizations, and volunteer 
American Students and their programs will be available to 
parents, faculty, and ad­answer any questions 
ministrators will be held at 3 p.m.· Activities Day is actually a 
in the Memorial Library Lounge. preliminary to Activities Night 
At 4 p.m. black students and <Sept. 16th), according to Fresh-
their parents are invited to meet man Orientation Committee 
with faculty and administrators in member Jody Korth. It affords 
a Communications Exchange freshmen an opportunity to meet 
Hour in the Donor's Room of the the heads of the various 
Morris Inn. organization and form some idea 
Sunday night, Student Govern­of where their interests lie, Korth 
ment will sponsor a rock concert explained. 
on the North Quad featuring At 6:45 Monday evening, two ''Carrots" from Chicago, beginning full-length movies--"The Bells of at 9 p.m. St. Mary's" and "Knute Rockne,On Monday, Septemher 1, All-Amsrican"--will be presented
students who have qualified will in O'Laughlin Auditorium the
on 
take their examinations for course St. Mary's campus.credit in Room 127 of Nieuwland Tuesday, September 2, freshmen Science Hall from 9 to 11 a.m. and will register at Stepan Center, not 
from 2-4 p.m. 
the ACC, according to the 
~------------------------­


llelcome Back! 
If you live in a residence hall, ask us 
about the STUDENT BILLING CARD. With 
this card you can make long distance calls from 
your room at direct dialed rates. It's a lot easier 
and more economical than a collect call or a 
coin phone call. Drop by the Indiana Bell Busi­
ness Office and get your STUDENT BILLING 
CARD today! 
If you live in an 
apartment and need. 
telephones installed, 
call our Business 
Office. 

Indiana Bell 
alphabetical ·schedule. It is essential that students not show up to register before their assigned time, Hofman stated, to avoid an uncomfortably crowded situation 
· Classes will begin Wednesday, September 3, at 8 a.m. 
On Saturday, September 6th, the Freshman Year office will organize a shopping tour of the South Bend area from 12:30-5 p.m. The Freshman Year office will also sponsor three cookouts in the ~~urtyard of Brownson Hall on 
I ,September 12, 19, and 26. The ·~ookouts will be attended by members of the freshman faculty, and the Notre Dame cheerleaders and Glee Club will demonstrate the 
traditional songs and cheers. Tickets for the shopping tour and cookouts may be obtained at the Freshman Yeal"office. There is no charge. 
._Later in the semester, freshmen Will have an opportunity to attend a class picnic at the Dunes on Lake lldichigan, scheduled for October 19th. 
Freshmen Parent's Weekend has been planned for the weekend of November 1st, and an Open House will be held that day from :1: 30-11 :30 a.m. in Stepan Center. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
5-bedroom. House for rent. Fully. furnished. Close to campus. Call 233-2613 
or 232·7263. 
Wanted: Two house-mates lor Home on cr,rbv St. Contact Tom or Chris at 8661. (or leave message) 
Suzanne, Daniel, Martin, Harold, Fred, Scott & Jell: Thanks lor the party-l'll see you at Christmas. 
Tom 
.. 
.. 


16 the observer Saturday, August 30, 1975 

Finding QB is NO's first priority 
Slager to start in today's scrimmage: Allocco, Montana and Forystek also competing 

Fi~m, but ~arm and friendly, Coach Dan Devine has concern for d pride in h1s players. an 
by Bill Brink Sports Editor 
They say the breaks even out, and for Notre Dame, that just might be true. 
The Irish were robbed last summer by crippling injuries and suspensions, but have been blessed this year by the return of five suspended players, the entrance of a crop of fine freshmen, and the development of a good number of reserves. The question: can they fill enough of the holes left vacant by the 14 graduating starters, and can they fill the right holes? 
"We've made excellent progress since the first day of last spring," says head coach Dan Devine, "but let me qualify that; we had a long way to go." 
Devine may have filled some holes, but his biggest problem~remains. That is to find a starting quarterback to replace the graduated Tom Clements, a three­year starter with a brilliant career. Senior Frank Allocco was the frontrunner last spring until he separated his shoulder. Another senior, Rick Slager, assumed the number 1 spot and has retained it so far this fall. 
"Slager will start in Saturday's (today's) scrimmage," said Devine. ":Frank has done a marvelous job of recuperating but I still don't feel that he's fully recovered." 
Right behind Slager and Allocco are sophomores Joe Montana and Gary Forystek, both strong passers and considered by Devine to be right up there in the race for the starting role. Another sophomore contender, Mike Falash, was lost for the season when he injured his knee in practice and underwent surgery yesterday afternoon. Junior Kerry Moriarity and senior Kurt Horton rnmnlete the QB roster. 
Nearly equaling the quar­terbacks for lack of experience is the offensive line. AI Wujciak returns as the only starter at guard, but is nursing a shoulder ailment right now. He is joined by Ernie Hughes at guard with Pat Pohlen and Co-eaptain Ed Bauer at tackels. Pohlen and Hughes saw limited action last year, Hughes having played on the defensive line initially. Soph Harry Woepken­

... berg had been counted on but is out with a pulled hamstring and ·Elton Moore is also hampered. Cal Balliet, Tom Fredricks and Mark Ewald make up the reserves. Converted tackel Steve Quehl has taken over the center spot after sitting out last year with a serious leg injury. He is backed up by Vince Klees and Ken Andler. "The offensive line is definitely an area of concern," said Devine. "We didn't really gain anything there, there are no freshmen yet that look ready to move in." Let's hope that the line can develop and solidify because they've got an extremely talented group of runners to block for. The running backs looked good in spring that was before they gained three or four really promising additions. Senior Russ Kornman and Junior Mark McClane head the lineup of halfbacks, but look for AI Hunter and Dan Knott, returning from suspension, to see a lot of action. Freshman Jerome Heavens is currently on the second team and combines with Hunter and Knott to provide some much­needed speed. Steve Schmitz, John Rufo :md Terry Eurick are the reserves. The starting fullback position is occupied by a much-improved Jim Weiler, with freshman Jim Browner also looking good. Steve Orsini Tom Parise and Frank Bonder are challenging too, with Parise tyring to regain the number 1 spot he owned in spring. 
ttecefving is solid, especially with big tight end Ken MacAfee in the lineup. And it may be fast this year, too. Sophomore Ted .. Burgmeier brings speed to the split end position, offering the Irish 
their first real long bomb threat since Tom Gatewood in 1971. Kevin Doherty and Dan Kellaher are right behind and both look 
g-~.-~ 
N~tre Dame defense is traditionally big, strong and good and this doesn't look like a year to break tracition. The line is ex­perienced, as is the defensive backfield, and the linebacker corps, though inexperienced, has some really talented performers. 
Perhaps the most talented, despite being the least experienced at linebacker, is Co-Captain Jim Stock. Stock was coverted from 

Devine enjoying football, family and friends in the ND community 
b Bill Brink sY t Ed"t por s I or 
He sits in his corner office on the first floor of the ACC drinking coffee and chewing gum, and there is a sense of warmness and cor­diality that defies the gruff, hard-nosed image of a college football coach. And despite the obvious necessity for strictness and discipline, it is a sense that Dan Devine likes to incorporate into his coaching philosophy. 
"I'm new here, there are several new coahces and a lot of new players "he says. "We're starting to,!etl~er' there is a of from defensive end to outside linebacker because of his ex­ceptionsal speed and quicknes~­He has been hampered lately With a bruished thigh, but is expected to be ready to scrimmage today. 

Sophomore Doug Beck~r has a solid hold on the other outside spot, with Pete Johson, Tony Novakov and John Harchar also competing. The middle linebacker-middle guard position belongs to big Tom Eastman right now but freshm_an Bob Golic is pressing hard With impressive fall_ perfo~man~es .. 
The defensive hne IS big, 
beginninl!: with very big Steve 
togetherness here." 

It is clear that this is importatn to him. As the new head football coach at Notre Dame he is preceded by legend and immersed in tradition, and you have to believe that winning games is his top priority right now. But there is a familial concern for his players and a pride in their ac­complishments both on and off the field. ' 
"I remember at Missouri from about 1959 on I had a series of four great defen~ive backs and one other· player who all went on to graduate from medical school and 
. become M.D.'s. I was just thinking about this thenthernight because I }/ 
Niehaus (&-5, 260 lbs.) at tackle. Sophomore Jeff Weston adds his 245 lbs. at the other tackel. Sophomores Ross Browner and Willie Fry return from suspension to capture the end positions. Both possess good speed, and Browner has a full year of experience under his belt, having started two seasons ago as a freshman. The backups for the starters on the line provice excellent depth. Jay Achterhoff, Nick Federenko and Ken Dike can all fill in capably. 
In the defensive backfield, all four starters return. Randy Harrison comes off an impressive 
got a letter from one of them." this ye~r." 
There is pride in his voice for what Despite a lot or torment during
they had done in life, similar to the his coaching time at Green Bay, he 
pride reflected by the awards and has maintained that he gained 
trophies that line the shelves of his , valuable friendships and met a 
office for what he had done on tt·~· good deal of wonderful people. He 
field. expec_ts .no less out of his new 
What Devine has done on the associations here at Notre Dame . 
field is to amass a 120-40-8 "All I ~ow about myself is what 
collegiate coaching record over 16 · others wnte about me who have 
years, survive four grueling years known me a long time," he ex­
in pro football and still have plains. "I guess that I'm slow to 
enough enthusiasm for the game to loosen up with people and slow to 
accept the most pressured make friends. But when I do, it's 
coaching position in college for life. That's my nature and I'm 
football today. It shows a not going to change. I think that 
toughness and composure that after several years of playing 
seem to lurk behind what has often under me there are some that like 
been described as a "college me less, I don't know. Sometimes 
professor" appearance. But that J~shei.Yn dthonei:rt rbeeasltiz.Ienttheraetswtsh~t you do appearance is not necessarily · misleading either. Devine was a It seems strange that he could sit full professor at Missouri in college there and talk about family, education, with academic tenure friends and old times without too. Consequently he shows great letting the pressure and concern concern for his players' for the rapidly approaching season educational demands. come through. But he says that 
"I've always been that way," he after 27 years in the business it's says. "We expect so much from hard to run into something he our players that they have a right hasn't run into before. to leave here with a Notre Dame "The pressure here at Notre degree. And that's a great thing to Dame isn't any different. The jobhave.'' is different, but the pressure is the 
"I don't think a coach, in any same.'' sport, that didn't have that attitude Does that composed attitude that could be happy here," he con-handles the pressure also make tinued. "He'd be frustrated ex-him immune to the thrill and ex­pecially in spring practice, with citement that accompany most players having late classes or any involvement in Notre Dame exams.'' athletics? Hardly. 
The phone rings; it is his "I work very hard to try to daughter Sarah, calling to say that conceal my emotions, but this is everylliing is all right at home and one time that I just can't. I'm very that she'll be at practice today, the excited and very anxious."' second or third time she's been this You wouldn't know it too look at week. "We're a very football-him, but you don't judge Dan oriented family," he explains. Devine by appearance. He can get Sarah is scheduled to begin her very excited about football. freshman year at ND this week "I had a full professorship and and there's more of the father than tenure, plus eight years left on a the coach in his voice as he talks ten year contract at Missouri," he about he and his family settling says. "I gave up a lot to go to into the South Bend-Notre Dame Green Bay." Community. He's come back to the college 
"We all like it very, very much ranks now; excited, anxious and here," he says. "We're excited expecting the best for football, about Sarah being a freshman family and friends. 
freshman season at safety. Senior Randy Payne is alternating at one corner with Luther Bradley, suspended last year but a starter his initial season. Junior John Dubenetzky and senior Tom Lopienski are at the other side. Returning from injuries, and contending for a starting berth are Bob Zanot and Tim Simon, while Mike Banks, Pat Sarb and Ross Christiansen remain as relief men. 
Despite some thinking that the ND attack looks wide open now, Devine denies he has instilled a more liberal offense. 
"Personnel has a way of making an attack more wide open," he said. "For example, we mgiht run a play against USC and have it go nowhere, and they might back with the same play and make 20 yards. People would say that their attack is more open but it's just a matter of having the players who can block and run." 
Nevertheless, he does have a few things planned for BC, though he won't reveal them. He obviously respects the Eagles. 
"BC won 6 straight at the end of last year by a combined point total of 270-27. They're a veteran ball club." As far as the demands of playing them on a Monday night and heading back to play at Purdue on Saturday, Devine ad­mits that it will be a real test of the players. 
In fact, Devine's debut season finds ND's schedule lacking the often-eriticized soft teams, who now seem to be on the upswing. 
"Certainly Notre Dame's schule at times has been criticized for being soft," Devine agrees, "but no one can say that 'lOW." 







