
OD The Inside 
SMC room selection 
•••page 4 "Duck" Williams 
•••page 9 


serving the notre dame · st. mary's community Friday, February 14, 1975
Vol. IX, No. 81 
--------------------------····~·~----------

Assesment added for Lewis residents 
by Mary Reher Staff Reporter 
Women voluntarily transferring to Lewis Hall next year from otper 
residence halls and incoming freshmen assigned to Lewis will be required to 
pay an estimated $50 extra per semester, according to Sr. John Miriam Jones, 
assistant to the provost. She did confirm the statement by University Provost 
I<'r. James Burtchaell that room rates for Badin residents moving to Lewis 
Hall would remain unchanged.
"Room rates for graduate women will decrease when they move into Badin 
I!all, but I do not know what that figure will be," Jones said. 
The graduate students will be provided with a kitchen inst~lled on ~very 
noor in Badin. Jones noted. "I do not know whether the eqUipment will be 
taken from Lewis Hall or if it will be completely new," she said. 
It is necessary that graduate students have kitchens because they generally 
have Jess income than undergraduates and many cook for themselves in the 
hall paying only a room fee, Jones pointed out. She noted, though, that not all 
the students use it because some purchase meal tickets at the dining hall or 
eat at the pay cafeteria. 
"I could say that the kitchens in Lewis, if they should remain, will be made 
available to undergraduate women on a limited basis," Jones stated. "They 
would be available for baking cookies and cakes and general party use, but 
the kitchens are not meant to be used for cooking regular meals instead of 
eating at the dining hall. One reason for this is that the dining hall is geared 
toward serving a certain number of students,including these residents," she 
said. 
The conversion of single rooms to doubles in Lewis Hall will involve pur­
chasing extra beds and making additional storage space, since the present 
closets are not large enough for the use of two people, according to Jones. The 
typing and ironing rooms will be converted to bedrooms to accomodate more 
residents. 
"'The major addition to Badin Hall next year will be the installation of 
kitchens." Jones stated, "but we also envision additional shelving space, 
because graduate students have so many books. It is also possible that the 
present chapel will be made smaller to provide extra study room," Jones 
Economy effects decline 
added. 


in campus job recruiting 
Humphrey commented on this situation. "I don't 
by Mat·tha Fanning 
think the bureau planned for such long lines. The only 
Staff Reporter 
difference is the 3 interview system. I think they should have had a better plan."

The depressed economy and the resulting decrease 
Hardest hit with the present situation are Arts &

in jobs has directly affected the graduating student 
Letters and Business Administration majors, except 

looking for a full time position. Companies have 
for accounting majors for which there is still a

curtailed their campus recruiting and an increase in 
demand. There are still opportunities for engineering 

cancellations is also apparent. The Notre Dame 
students available but the job market is beginning to

Placement Bureau has had over 50 cancellations 
narrow.

made as of February 5, with only 7 additions. 
Bill Blaetz, an engineering major, stated that he's 

Personal Valentines 
Students are beginning to take advan!age of any 
had "no real problems. I've walked in there at 8:05 in

opportunities for possible jobs, such as job interviews 
front of 40 people. If I use up my 3 interviews on

through the Placement Bureau and mailing cam­
Monday I can always go back the next day."

•••pages 10 & 11a 
paigns. For the past three Mondays, lines for interview Students Met With Few Results sign-ups at the bureau have begun forming as early 
Most students who have received interviews have 

as 5:30a.m. · 
had few results. John Connell, a business major,

One senior psychology major, Art Panfile, stated 
stated that he was "disillusioned" but wouldn't judge 

"'I got there at about 5:45a.m. and was 14th in line. I 
the bureau on his experiences. "I had hoped that the 

wanted an interview with Hallmark and came out 3rd 
Color Comics « ~ results would be more promising. So far I've had 1 
on the waiting list." 
out of 20 companies interested in a second interview, 

Mark Humphrey, also a psychology major, said "It 
but I'm still hopeful and will continue to go back."

..•page.7 1 
was frustrating to stand in line for over an hour and 
One student stated that "there should be more 

c 
get next to nothing." 
protection provided for Arts & Letters majors whose 

Proct>dural changes made choices are more limited than Business and 
Engineering students." 

The increased number of students and limited
~~6•••AAA..••~ "Notre Dame is actually better off than many
opportunities available has prompted the placement 
schools whose schedules have been decimated by

bureau to make two procedural changes in the last 
cancellations," commented Willemin. "We still have three weeks. 

150 companies visiting. As bad as the situation gets, a"The major change we made was to introduce a 3­


First Valentine sent 
Notre Dame education is still worth something on the

Jimit restriction for Monday interview sign-ups," 
job market."

stated Richard D. Willemin, director of the 
Willemin also stated that "Students are moreLONDON (UPil --On Feb. 14 in 270 A.D. Pll\,cement Bureau. "This allows more students to anxious this semester. They're familiar with thethe year 1477, an old country wench There are pagan traces in get their name on the interview schedules. It also present economic conditions and are accepting thecalled Margery Brews sharpened Valentine's Day commemora­results in quality judgement on the part of the student first job offer they get." 

her quill pen and really started tions, but there has never been since they select more carefully which three 
Other Options Available

something. anything firm or fixed about choose." 
"My well beloved Valentine," the way the day is observed. The change was introduced on a trial basis for two Another option open to students is mailing cam­Miss Margery began in her In English villages, for weeks and has proven to be successful. It will be paigns. Students who want a list of companies can spidery medieval hand, hoping instance, young men once drew continued for the rest of the semester. Tuesday, look them up in the Placement Annual, a directory to prod some action out of that lots for young women to be Wednesday and Thursday will be additional signing providing information on positions customarily of­reluctant swain of hers, John their valentines for the coming days without limit. Friday will continue to be the day fered to college graduates. They can also go to the Paston. year. So many such pairings for any senior or grad student to sign up on any placement bureau to request names and addresses of 
Hers is the first known turned out to be for life that the schedule with openings. individual companies. Valentine. The business has custom persisted until a cen­Another problem which the staff received some Jeff Brunner, a Marketing major, stated that he come a long way since then. tury ago. complaints about was students signing up their had sent out approximately 200 resumes and cover How far is shown by a smile­But after Miss Margery wrote friends for interviews. letters. "So far I've received 159 refusals. I'm inducing exhibit at London's her blatant, unmaidenly appeal "Recently we've had the staff carefully supervise planning to send out 150 more, I've really got no little-known National Postal to the reluctant John, the idea people signing up for interviews to prevent this choice." museum. of a Valentine card or message problem," commented the director. "These Conditions were better last semester in comparison 
It ~verflows with magnificant, became all the rage. inequities have always existed. The important thing to this semester. Although there were 35 can­touchmg or funny cards com­The golden age of the about a change is that it not create new problems. So cellations, 34 additions were made. In a letter sent memorating two St. Valentines valentine began with the penny far we've received positive reactions to these out last December, Willemin stated, "·Comparatively -no one is sure which one is post of 1840, three years into changes." 1970-1971 was much worse, the cancellation rate being honored every Feb. 14-who These changes have also helped to move the line of 
(continued on page 5)

(continued on page 5)
were martyrd near Rome about students faster than before. 


the observer Friday, February 14, 1975 

Collegiate Choir 
to performconcert 
to honor Jim Ward 
The Saint Mary's Collegiate Choir will perform the final concert in the series of memorial programs being held in honor of Notre Dame senior Jim Ward, who died while on tour with the choir in Florida over Christmas break. The concert is scheduled for Sunday, February 16; at 8:00p.m. in the Little Theatre of Moreau Hall on the Saint Mary's campus. A donation of 50 cents will be requested at the door. with all proceeds from the show going to the Ward family. 
Music from the choir's Southern tour will figure prominently in the program. including selections from Porgy:~· and Bt'ss, two romantic German pieces, "Blow the Candles Out." and popular songs. 
Also included in the hour-long program will be a series of solos and small group ensembles, performing "01' Man Hiver" from Showboat. "Sabbath Prayer" from Fiddler on tht• Hoo£ and an entire (;ndspt•ll scene featuring "Day by 
Day." A mass in Ward's honor will also be celebrated in the Le Mans hall chapel. The Collegiate Choir will also perform at the mass. Brother Lawrence Stewart, SMC' biology professor and member of the choir, will deliver the homily. 
Walsh to appear at Notre Dame 
Rock guitarist and vocalist Joe Walsh will appear in concert at the Notre Dame ACC on Wednesday, March 12, at 8 p.m. 
Walsh will be joined on stage by former Beach Boy Ricky Fataar on drums and David Mason on keyboards. 

Walsh. a former member of the .lames Gang, has released two solo albums. "The Smoker You Drink­The !'laver You Get" and "So What''". on the A.B.C.-Dunhill label. 
Tickets for the concert are $6, $5, and $4. 

!\Jail orders are now being ac­cepted at the ACC Gate 10 ticket office. Over-the-counter sales begin :lionday. I<,eb. 24,. at the Student Union t1cket offiCe, the Al'C ticket office and other area outlets. 

CUSTOM MADE HUMOR SAYINGS 
PERSONALIZED FOR: 
SECTION TEAMS, CLUBS, HALLS, SPECIAL OCCASIONS OR JUST FOR FUN! 
SPECIAL -AN TOSTAL HALL SHIRTS ANY COLOR, SIZE, STYLE, QUANTITY, DESIGN LOWEST PRICE CALL TIM MciNTYRE 287-3943 
THE NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION PROUDLY PRESENTS 




FREEPORT 
In The Bahamas 

For$249 

8 days I 7 nights March21-28 
Includes 

* 
Round Trip Air Transportation on a DC-9 Leaving from South Bend

* 
Accomodations



* In Flight Service -· * U.S. Departure Tax 
Enjoy Swimming, Golf Tennis, or Anything You Want In the Bahamas 
$50 DEPOSIT WITH SIGN-UP 
Sign Up At S.U. Ticket Office 
OPEN TO ALL MEMBERS OF 

N.D. COMMUNITY 
-~~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------------, 
Friday, February 14, 1975 the ob 


Four plans suggested 
SMC to vote on room pick 
by Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor 
St. Mary's students will have the opportunity to vote for one of the four room selection proposals now under consideration by the Housing Office on Monday at dinner in the SMC Dining Hall, according to Legislative Com­missioner Joanne Garrett. 
Based on the results of this poll, the Student Affairs staff expects to reach a decision on the room selection procedure for this spring by Wednesday, February 19, ac­cording to Assistant to the Vice­President for Student .Affairs Stevie Wernig. 
According to Garrett. three of the fo~.;r proposals involve some type of room-freeze option, while the fourth is the room selection policy of the college that has been used in the past. 
Included in all proposals is the elimination of the quota system, in which a certain number of beds is reserved in each section for in­coming freshmen, noted Wernig. 
·'The quota system has caused a number of problems with room selection in the past," Wernig commented. "Sophomores with high lottery numbers and fresh­men with numbers over 50 were afraid of getting a 'bad' room. By removing the quota system, we also are taking out the aspect of fear of getting a 'bad' room," Wernig said. 
As a result, incoming freshmen will live in rooms vacant after the room selection process is com­pleted, according to Nannette Blais, director of housing and head of the Room Selection Committee. 
Blais stressed that a student cannot "freeze" her room unless all present occupants of the room also wish to do so. 
P1·oposais outlined 
Under Proposal A, each student will pick a lottery number. As in previous years. this lottery will be a class lotttery in which students of each class randomly pick a number between one and the total enrollment figure of their respective classes. Priority to the lottery numbers will be assigned after the lottery is completed. 
Following the lottery, a student 
will have the option to freeze her 
present room. or to participate in 
room selection. Present juniors 
with the highest priority lottery 
numbers will be given first choice in room selection, followed by sophomores and freshmen. 
According to Proposal B, students again will have the option to freeze their rooms. However, those who decide to do so will not be allowed to select a lottery number. Room selection will be open only to students who have picked a lottery number. 
"The difference between Proposals A and B," Blais said, "is that with Proposal A, after a student picks a lottery number . she knows what her chances of getting a 'good' room are, and she can then decide whether to freeze her room or to participate in the lottery. 
With Proposal B, a student might decide to freeze her room, and therefore not participate in the lottery. because she won 'tknow what . her lottery number might be," explained Blais. 
"Proposals A and B take into account that a group of students who presently live in the same area want to stay together in the same area," Blais said. "With either proposal this would be possible if all present occupants wish to stay in the same room. This option is being proposed, knowing that it often takes a full semester to get to know the other students living around you, only giving you a semester with people you know before changing rooms again." she added. 
According to Proposal C, all 
students would participate in the 
class lottery. However, only 
present juniors would have the 
option of freezing their present 
rooms. Room selection by class 
would follow for those juniors not 
freezing their rooms, then 
sophomores and freshmen. 
The fourth proposal is the same 
room selection procedure used in 
the past. in which all students 
would particip<rte in a class lot­
tery, followed by room selection by 
class. with prospective seniors 
given priority in room picks. 
Pl"ime rooms 
When asked whether she felt that the best rooms on campus would be frozen, leaving a poor selection of rooms open to those in the lottery, Blais explained that all rooms now occupied by seniors will be opened up. As seniors, she continued, these students had first choice in selecting their rooms last year. 

SERVED SUNDAY AND MONDAY AFTER 4 PM 
BARB Q BEEF RIBS REG.-'2:<5ti WITH THIS AD 1.49 
YOU SAVE 1.01 
ENJOY A 10% DISCOUNT ON ALL OTHER ITEMS 
SUNDAY AND MONDAY 
SPECIAL WAKE-UP BREAKFAST 
YOUH CHOICE OF: 2 Eggs, toast and jelly 
49~
Golden French Toast Buttered Hot Cakes Delicious Waffle 

Served Daily from 7 A.M. to 11 A.M. Only 
OPEN 7 A.M. DAILY Until Midnight Sunday thru·Thursday 24 HRS. FRI. & SAT. 13-15 E Ireland (Qppositr· Scottsdale Mall) 291 7434 


and consequently occupy prime rooms, Blais noted. 
In McCandless, approximately 109 beds, in 21 singles, 21 doubles, and 15 triples, are currently oc­cupied by seniors. A survey of LeMans showed that ap­proximately 107 beds located in 29 library wing singles, 13 southwest wing singles, 11 southwest wing doubles, 9 southeast wing singles,in addition to numerous doubles, triples and quads on the main corridor belong to present seniors. 
Wernig stated that Holy Cross and Regina Halls were not in­cluded in the study, as "the vast majority of this year's seniors are living in McCandless and LeMans." 
With the addition of 270 beds that will be accupied by seniors in Augusta, there will be even more beds guaranteed to be open for the lottery. Blais explained. 
"The proposals resulted from a questionnaire sent to 45 colleges the size of St. Mary's," the housing director noted. 
Of the 30 responses to the questionnaire the Housing Office received, "the vast majority had some type of stay-hall system," Blais said. 
In some schools, first priority is given to students staying in the same room, second to those wanting to remain on the same floor, and third priority to those wishing to live in the same hall, Blais explained. 
"However, we <SMC Housing Office l cannot chose that type of system. St. Mary's has five very different types of dorms, and very different opinions by students concerning these dorms," Blais explained. 
Consequently, the system of freezing a room has been proposed. 
"All four proposals are ac­ceptable and workable ad­ministratively," observed Wernig. "We (Student Affairs staff) favor, however, either 'A' or 'B' policy." 
These two proposals which allow students to remain in the same section with other present mem­bers of that section, correspond to the "Student Development Theory'' that Student Affairs has adopted. In accordance with he theory, Student Affairs is at­tempting to create "more of a community" among members of the section, Wernig continued. 


SILENT RUNNING 
8, 10, 12 P.M. Fri. & Sat. nite K-··'IGHTS OF c-~'LUi·;" '}IJC'
I • .....J i ··~ ~ L~ t ,. ; 
ADMISSION $1 .00 
!"'~ ·:MHERS FREf 

t:. ... . 
r r ~-·-:}•~ 
!!' ~ t N ~ r.· ~) .• 
. I , f"t.L'· ,;, rd. .-.: .·-: RE '" /'-r ~; ~ f.,' ,,lctir:: t-·rd 
TICKET~ ON SALE: NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
BOX OFFICE MON.·SAT. 9 to 5 
'" (II· in· ti•·kl'l~ for :\utrt> lt>~m•· -Sl. :\l:u·~··s sturlt"nt~ ou tht"''"' P~"•·fnrntan~:~·~: Thur,.rlay !! pm. Satm·da~· I:! noon. Suntia.'· li pm. 

NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION PROUDLY PRESENTS 


JOE WALSH 
IN CONCERT 
WEDNESDAY MARCH 12 8:00 P.M. 

NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC & CONVOCATION CENTER 

IL ORDERS NOW BEING ACCEPTED! ! 
TICKET PRICES: $6.00, $5.00, & $4.00 
FOR MAIL ORDERS: MAKE CHECK PAYABLE TO NOTRE DAME JOE WALSH SHOW & MAIL TO OR DROP OFF AT GATE 10 TICKET OFFICE AT THE A.C.C. ENCLOSE STAMPED, SELF-ADDRESSED ENVELOPE WITH ORDER INDICATING NUMBER OF TICKETS AT EACH PRICE. OVER THE COt'NTER SALES BEGIN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24. 
A BAMBOO PRODUCTION 
by Mike Sarahan Starr Reporter 

Describing the Catholic ap­proach to learning as "unique, distinctive and ahead of its time," Gerhardt Niemeyer, professor of Government and International Studies at Notre Dame, called for the Catholic university to take the leadership role in re-establishing general Pducation as a "process of learning and teaching open to the whole of being, including divine origin" in a lecture on "The Catholic University in Con­temporary Culture" in the Library Auditorium last night. 
"Today. the Catholic University stands out as the one with the capacity and equipment to liberate science" from the dominance of those who consider technology and research to be ends in themselves, Niemever told a small audience in the first of a series of lectures on "Catholic Universities" sponsored by the Gt>neral Program of Liberal Studies. 
Niemeyer. who holds Professor 
nEPREssloPtlRf~~rouNo" 
Public Offered 
1937 U.S. Gov't 


Art Prints 
A series of rare c:oinc:idenc:es has led to the historic: discovery of several thousand sets of full c:olor antique art prints that were "lost sinc:e 1937." They are now being offered to the public:. 
ELEANOR ROOSEVELT Bac:k in 1937, immediately fol­lowing the depression years, Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt and a select group of a dozen nationally pro­minent people formed a volun­tary national committee for art appreciation to create an art pro­gram that would give the public: a well-needed moral lift. It was the committee's decision to select the world's most famous paintings from the 16th, 17th, 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries -the best paintings of Matisse, Van Gogh, Gainsborough, Picasso, Gauguin, Titian, etc:., and to reproduce them in full c:olor as perfectly as humanly possible and make them available to the public: at a pric:e within the reac:h of everyone. 
ABANDONED IN 1937 For some unknown reason, after a quantity of these beautiful reproductions were made, the en­tire project was abandoned and this collection of perfect repro­ductions was stored in a Brooklyn warehouse, where they remained undisturbed ainc:e 1937. The lost collection was "redia­covered" and leading lithogra­phers and art c:ritic:s agree that the subject matter and quality of detail and c:olor reproduction is incredibly ac:c:urate. Over $500,­
000.00 had been spent to make engraved glass printing plates 
These authentic: orginal 1937 prints are literally c:ollec:tor'a items and have been appraised by the American Appraisers Asaoc:. at $7.00 each print. Onc:e they have been sold, there will be no more available. A truly excellent art "investment" that makes a fabulous gift. 

AVAILABLE TO PUBLIC Now, after 38 years these full color 11" x 14" (ave. size) prints are finally available to the public: at $19.95 for a c:ollec:tion of 18 
prints. Send c:ash, c:hec:k or mon­ey order to: U.S. Surplus, Dept. Xl7 , P. 0. Box 605, Tarzana, 
Calif. 91356. Fully GUARAN­TEED. Certificate of authenticity given with eac:h set. Master Charge and BankAmeric:ard OK (give c:ard number). 
Adwrtlsement 


the observer Friday, February 14, 1975 
~----~~~~~~~-----------­
Catholics urged by Niemeyer 

Cavalier 

to re-examine learningprocess 

Camera 

Emeritus status, saw universities "One can blame politicalchallenged by the present cultural ideologies for this loss of tran­
Scottsdale Mall

trend toward fragmentation and scendence, but it is possible onlydisintegration. when universities overlook the 
"Technology is dominating spirit," he added. next to culture, resulting in the erosion in The strengths of the Catholic the spirit," Niemeyer stated. universities have been the Bishop's Buffet 
"openness of mind and spirit" that in his view, especially "pervade" Notre Dame, Niemeyer contended. 9 p m Evenings 
These strengths encouraged 0 pen Till Niemeyer to claim that "when we 5 p m Sunday are thinking of the need for the Catholic university, we are Complete Line of Camera engaging in nostalgia." 
The government professor also 
and Darkroom Supplies
stressed the responsibilities that the Catholic university places upon its faculty members. 
"You must carry your belief into the lab and into the classroom" 
MICHIGAN STREET
Niemeyer said. "If you keep religion out, you reduce your ef­forts and then you become the gravedigger of civilization. A scholar cannot be a full scholar without acknowledging tran­


ADULT THEATRES

Gerhardt Niemeyer scendence," Niemeyer added. 
shifted

I Senior Ball site 
* 2 FILMS 

from Chicago to SB area 
h~· Hob Hrink Staff Heporter 

The site of the Senior Ball has been moved from Chicago back to the South Bend area because the excessive cost and distance of the Chicago site would cause too many students to skip the affair, ac­cording to Marlene Zloza, a member of the Senior Ball Com­mittee. 
"Most students questioned by the Senior Ball Committee thought the Chicago site was an excellent idea. Yet they admitted that they could not attend because of the distance and high cost," Zloza said. 
The new site for the Senior Ball is the Holiday Inn in Elkhart. The dinner-dance will take place on Saturday night. March 15. 
The dinner will start at 8 p.m. Cocktails will be served for one hour before dinner and for two hours afterwards. For dinner there will be roast sirloin of beef and wine. The dance will begin at 10 p.m. 
Capacity for the dinner is 300 people, and capacity for the dance is 400 people. Therefore, 150 bids 




NICKlE'S 
NOW FEATURING 
POUND ­CHARCOAL GRILLED 
HAMBURGERS 
Serving from 11 :30 a.m. daily 
Tuesday. Wednesday and Friday 
•

of next week. • "This is to make buying bids •
•

easier for off-campus students," • Zloza said. •
• 

The theme of this year's Senior •
•

Ball is "The Isle of Connemara,'' • which is a fictional place found at 
•
the Pnd of the rainbow. For further information con­
•

cerning the Senior Ball call • Committee Chairman Joe Hen­
•

derlong at 234-1673 or Marlene • Zloza at 6932 ••
•
•
•
• •
• •
• •
•
•
•
•
•
• •
..•
• •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• •
•
• •
• •
• • 
costing $25 p~r couple will be sold for the complete dinnt:-dance, and an additional 50 bids costing $10 per couple will be sold for just the dance. Any Notre Dame or St. Mary's senior may buy a bid. 
Bids for the affair will go on sale starting Monday, February 17, and continuing as long as the tickets last. The bids will be svld on Monday, Wednesday and Friday in the St. Mary's Dining Hall between :1-6 p.m., and in both the North and South Dining Halls at Notre Dame between :1::l0-6:30 p.m. 
Bids will also be sold in the first floor lobby of LaFortune Student 
Center betwPen 12-1 p.m. on 
* 
BOOKSTORE 

* 
LIVE FLOOR SHOW 


1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
CALL 282-1206 FOR INFORMATION 

FREE •
•
PARKING •
•
Telephone • 259-9090 •
•
•
STARTS TOMORROW •• 
.TIMES-1:45 3:45 5:45 7:45 9:45 • 
FIWJ\1 TilE 1\IADCAP MAKEH OF "HLAZING SADDLES" 

•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
•
• •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
• 
• • •
•
•
•
•
•
• 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 

Friday, FebruarY 14, 1975 the observer 
Fifty dollar lee 
Tuition deposit due today 
by Don Reimer Staff Reporter 

Failure by a student to pay the fifty dollar tuition deposit will automatically forfeit con­siderations for on campus housing next year, according to Director of 
Student  Residence  Fr.  John  
Mulcahy.  
The  deadline  for  payment  

without penalty is Friday, February 14. However, late payments plus a penalty fee of 10 dollars will be accepted until next Tuesday. Emerit Moore, director of student accounts, said that if the deposit is received by next Tuesday, it will be on the original list sent to the Housing Office. 
Those students receiving per­manent scholarships, such as athletic or ROTC, do not need to make the deposit, according to Moore. Scholarships which1 would not fall under this exemption are state scholarships or conditional scholarships which must be renewed each year, Moore added. 
"If you give no indication that you are coming back next year, then we can't give you a bed," Mulcahy stated. 
"The Office of Student Accounts prepares a list of those students who pay their deposit before next Tuesday which is se'nt to the Housing Office," explained Moore. 
"Usually we will list those who pay after Tuesday alphabetically and send the list up to the Housing Office later," Moore said. 
According to Mulcahy, the lists are used by the Housing Office only as a backup in determining who may remain on campus next year. He noted that use of the lists is one of several alternatives open to the Housing Office in the event that there is a lack of space on campus. 
"If we do decide to use the lists and your name is not on the original one, it could effect whether or not you get a bed on campus," Mulcahy explained. 
"We are attempting now to get some idea of the number of people who will not be coming back on campus next year, said Mulcahy. "And there are freshmen next year from South Bend who live at home," he added. Mulcahy also noted that some students may decide over the summer either not to return at all or to move off campus. 
Moore stated that confirmation of a student's intent to return next 
year  is  needed  "as  a  basis  to  
determine  our  input  for  next  
year."  

"If the enrollment drops off by a certain amount next year,"
Job 1narket in slu1np 
(continued from page I) 
nearly three times the present 
number." Willemin also predicted 
that .the "cancellations may 
multiply rapidly in the next 
month." This prediction proved 
true as the number of cancellations 
is now seven times greater than 
the number of additions. 
Signing up for interviews last 
semt>ster was also considerably 
better. 
"Last semester the situation 
wasn't bad at all. You could go 
there at 7:45 and there might be a 
line but it wasn't that big," com­
mmted Panfile. 
This year there has been a 
tremendous increase in the 
number of students registering at 
the bureau. Over 1400 students 
have registered, almost 500 more 
Brews begins Valentine custom 
(continued from page 1) 
Queen Victoria's reign. The 
cheap mail "changed the 
writing habits of the kingdom 
almost overnight," the exhibit 
notes. 
Earlier handmade cards bore 
such naive messages as, "My 
dear, ask about and try to find 
out the writer of this and he'll 
give you a kiss." But commer­
cial Victorian Valentines erupt­
ed with embossed paper and 
paper lace, with hearts and 
flowers and fold-<Jut ruffs. 
Free tax advice 
open to students 
Any student or employee of Notre Dame can have FREE advice in filling out tax returns by going to the Student Government office on the 3rd floor of La For­tune on Mondays I : 30-4: 30, or Thursday 2:30-4:30. The program will run every week until April 15. Bring W-2 forms and any other statements needed to complete the tax forms. All tax forms will be provided. 
Night Editor .. Bill Brink Ass't Night Editor --Val Zurblis Layout --Martha Fanning, Katie Kerwin, Jeff Pecore, Maggie Waltman, Terry Keeney, Tom O'Neil Copy Reader .. Bob Radziewicz Day Editors .. Maureen Flynn, Mary Egan Editorials --Fred Graver, John Amantea Features --J.R. Baker Sports --Greg Corgan Typists --Anne Peeler, Don Roos, Jim Landis, M. Tobin, Rick Huber, Camille Arrieh Compugraphic Operator --John Kuhn Picture Screener --Albert Ad Layout --Bob Tracey, Bob McManus Night Controllers .. M.J. Foley, Dave Rust Missing Person (maybe?) -­Whales Caterer --Val Zurblis 
remarked Moore, "we need to than the usual number. know this so that we can admit 
Willemin outlined the more people and keep our requirement for an interview. enrollment up." "!<'or an interview for permanent Concerning the possible use of jobs. the person must be a the lottery to force students off­graduating Notre Dame senior or campus, Mulcahy pointed out that graduate student leaving in it is only one possibility. December, May or August. For "We are still waiting for the summer jobs the individual must numbers (of available beds) be returning to the university next before deciding on a lottery." said fall." Mulcahy. 

LIVE MUSIC BY 


ZERA 
9:30 -1:30 FRIDAY & SATURDAY 
THE ROMA PIZZA * LIQUOR * ITALIAN FOOD 

Your Host Frank Anastasio .'A PIZZA YOUCANNOT REFUSE' LIVE BANDS ON WEEKENDS 
Call 234-3258 For Delivery 219 N. Mich. Ave. Downtown At North End Of River Bend Plaza 
Spring or Summer Vacation in New Orleans? 
Stay at the 
OLO TOWH VILLA 
....and save money! 

Intimate French Quarter villa restored to meet your every need. Tour· ist apartments by the week starting from $100. All feature new private baths and kitchen facilities. Stay in the heart of the fabulous French Quarter and SAVE MONEY! Send for free brochure. 
616 Ursuline St. New Orleans, La. 70116AC(504) 522-1793 
IN CONCERT 

SEALS & CROFTS 
SUN. MARCH 2 7:30 
NOTRE DAME ~~~~~;1c AND CONVOCATION 

TICKET PHICES: .\LL ('IJAIH TYPE SEA 
$1i.flfl 
BLEAC'IIEHS $5.00 
Tickets now on sale: NOTRE DAME, A.C.C'. BOX OFFICE Mon.-Sat. 9 to 5 STVUDENT llNION TICKET OFFICE 
Robertson's South Bend & Concord Mall St. Joseph Bank and branches First Bank main office only E I kart Truth 

SHARE THE RIDE WITH US THIS WEEKEND AND GET ON TO AGOOD THING. 
Us means Greyhound. and a lot of your fellow students who are already on to a good thing. You leave when you like. Travel comfortably. Arrive refreshed and on time. You'll save money, too, over the increased air fares. Share the riae·with us on weekends. Holidays. Anytime. Go Greyhound. 
GREYHOUND SERVICE 
ONE­ ROUND­ YOU CAN  YOU  
TO  WAY  TRIP  LEAVE  ARRIVE  
Chicago  5.50  10.45  9:25A.M.  11:20 A.M.  
Cleveland  14.85  28.25  8:55A.M.  4:15P.M.  
Pittsburgh  22.20  42.20  2:30P.M.  1:40 A.M.  
Detroit  11.55  21.95  10:35 A.M.  4:45 P.M.  
Milwaukee  9.20  17.50  2:00 P.M.  6:15P.M.  

Ask your agent about additional departures and return trips. GREYHOUND BUS TERMINAL 210 W. Monroe St. 287-6541 



GO GREYHOUND 
...and leave the driving to us® 

Eaters·,\........~vervoDe \\\\.\\\\\".. '.. ·,·•· 
the observer Friday, February 14, 197S 
seriously! falks 22 picas 
They Need A Rest 
·T·he Answer Man
art: buchwald 
The big question everyone in Washington are thinking. They want jobs, a halt to in­is asking this week is, "Can congressmen flation and some sort of tax reform." 
chew gum and walk at the same time?" It's impossible to answer because all of them have gone on vacation for 10 days. 
The decision to take 10 days off was not one of those spur~f-the-moment actions that the House of Representatives is noted for. It was carefully thought out and ap­proved by the leadership. 
I went up on the Hill' Monday to find out what was going on whilethe congressmen were away. 
The only one I could find, who wasn't on vacation, was .a cleaning woman who had been asked to act as a liaison with the press. 
After she finished mopping the floor in one of the congressmen's offices, she agreed to speak to me. 
"Why would the House, after only being in session for one month, take a 10-day vacation?" 
"They have to go home to make speeches in their districts telling their constituents what a mess this country is in because nobody in Washington is doing anything." 
"Wouldn't it have been better if they stayed in Washington and tried to get us out of the mess?", I asked. 
"Everyone needs a rest. You c~n't expect a legislator to work for 30 days and not get tired. When they come back from vacation, they'll be fresh and able to deal ..vith the momentous problems of the country." ' 
"I hate to say this but there doesn't seem to be the sense of urgency around· here that the times would require." 
"That," she said, as she squeezed out her mop, "is because you don't understand how congressmen work. They have to know what the people are thinking. They can't pass laws if they don't have their ears to the ground." 
"But all you have to do is pick up the newspapers and you'll know what people 
aut:rider 



Occupied 
Israeli government spokesmen try to convince visitors that those who live on the occupied West Bank of the Jordan never had things better, and are basically ha~py with their lot. That is unfortunate, smce the assertion is a priori unlikely and easily disproved as a fact. Holding .the.t~rritories conquered in 1967 can be JUStified as a necessary evil, but hardly as a blessing to all parties. 
Wt• are told that this is the most t-nlightened and humane military govern­mt•nt ever imposed on a conquered people. Maybe so. But what occupied people loves its military governors? Drive around the West Bank, and look for any fraternization of soldiers with their subjects--you will find none. A cold bristle of hate exists on both sides: and the military is kept out of all but the most necessary contact with the hostile population--which is enlightened ad­ministration, because inefficient. 
The Homan occupation of Jerusalem during the Second Temple period was very mlightened. The Romans, after all, had a native tool who if anyone ever could, made "collaborator'' 'a good name. Herod built the Second Temple for the Jews. But resentment at quisling "tax gatherers" increased, along with zealotry, and the Homans had to stamp out rebels and 
Temple and <almost) a whole people in the bloody war that ended at Masada. What makes Israel think the Palestinians will be any more yielding than they were? 
West Bank Palestinians have no civil rights, no recourse to trial against detention by fiat or instant deportation. Compare their lotwith that of the Catholics in Ulster-­who do have the vote, and a right to trial, and citizen status. Yet the hatred of a far less cruel authority exercised over them has led Catholics for decades to condone terrorist IRA tactics as a voice of protest against those they think of as oppressors. Why should the Palestinians, with far greater complaints, love their military rulers? 
The Israeli argument seems to move in three steps. 1) The Palestinians are better treated by Israel than they were by King Hussein, who slaughtered them in great numbers when he tried to quash the terrorists. 2) The civil servant establish­ment on the West Bank never had things better since it is getting a double salary-­from Israel and from Jordan. And 3) these reasons for gratitude are bound to weigh more, in the long run, than romantic PLO rhetoric. Take the points one by one: 
"You wouldn't get that in 10 days even if they were all here," she retorted. • "But they could get started," I protested. 
•

She emptied out her pail in the sink and • filled it with fresh water. 
•

"If the House thought they could have done something, they would have stayed • here," she said. "But, since the situation is • hopeless why sit in session and fret about it? Maybe they'll get some ideas while •• they're skiing." • 
"Haven't you heard from voters who have protested the House taking so much time • off?" 
"There has been a lot of mail," she said, 
•

"but I haven't been able to get to it yet 
because I still have to mop the hall." "Are you going to answer the mail?" "The congressmen said I could do 
•
•

anything I wanted as long as I didn't break • any bric-a-brac on their desks. But I doubt • if I'll get to the mail. I have to see Gerry •Ford at 4:00." •
•

"You're going to see the President?" 
"He called up and said he wanted to see Carl Albert and Tip O'Neill. I told him they • weren't here. Then he said he would speak •
•

to any congressman. I had to tell him they · · . were all on vacation. So he asked me to come over to discuss congressional • • ·problems with him. I said I would as soon as • I got finished dusting Sam Rayburn's bust." The phone in one of the congressmen's 
•
offices rang. 

The cleaning lady picked ip up. "Who is this? Sen. Jackson? No, no one is here. • This is Eliza in the Rayburn Building. No, I 
•

haven't gotten around to writing the energy legislation yet. I'll work on it tomorrow. ••For heaven's sakes Scoop, I've only got two hands!" 
•
•
• •

·.Territories •• • 
•

r:~arry wills • 
1l There is certainly resentment of King Hussein among Palestinians, as part of an •Arab revolt against an Arab ruler. Yet Hussein is the distant devil now, compared • with the tanks of Israel rolling through 
•

Nablus. Besides, internal Arab conflicts • exacerbate, rather than ease, Arab hatred •
•

of the Jews. On the one hand, Jewish hawks • recognize this anti-Semitism when they try • to say that dealing with Arafat is useless. • But they should not. then, turn around and •
•

deny the hostility by claiming that West • Bank Palestinians actually love their­• military rulers. • 
2) It is true that Israel, under its military 
•

administration, pays civil servants <in­• cluding public school teachers )--how could 
•

it not? It continues to collect taxes, in­cluding some new ones, from the population. 
Not to return the services for this levy • would be foolish. The real question is: why • does Hussein keep paying civil servants • after publicly cutting loose the West Bank 
•

from his reign? Obviously, because he wants to reclaim the territory eventually, ••and feels he has a chance to do so. Israel sometimes hopes this is the case--that Hussein will reabsorb the West Bank in such 
• 

a way that the PLO is squeezed out. Yet the •
•

Israelis cling to this hope while arguing that Hussem IS more hated than the occupying • Jewish soldiery. • 
3l All these self-deceiving contentions •
•

rest finally on a rationalist thesis--that those who deserve love will be loved. Waive entirely the question whether love really is, • or can be, earned in a situation where Jews 
• 

occupy Arab territory by force. Even if that • were true,love is not compelled by these • means, though perhaps it should ~e. Favors • granted within a framework of ahen control • just grate on a subject people and make • them feel bought. That is the unlovely •• history of all occupations, and Israel's is no exception. ••
I return to the first question: Why do 
•

government officials, usually wise enough not to make excessive claims, try to fool their visitors with so patently weak an • argument? I fear it is because they have •
•

first fooled themselves. They want to • believe that the occupied territories are • better served by their control. This alleviates their guilt for the occupation and takes away pressure to relinquish the lands, and encourages the false hope that Israel can hold on to these territories indefinitely. In that regard, the self-deception just brews • deeper trouble for tomorrow. 
• 

fred 9raver 
Letters, Great Thoughts and Complaints from Readers and other 
Strangers: Andy BUI')': Dear Fred, I am running for Student Body President and am in desperate need of a solid running mate. Will you con­
sider the job? . .A: Well, Andy, I really don't know. First thing, what do you mean by a solid running mate? A mate that runs solidly? In that case. count me out. A solid mate in the process of running? Perhaps. If you mean a Vice-Presidential Candidate, I'm ready to rock 'n' roll my way into office, on the following conditions: 
Il We run on the Notre Dame Peyote-Coyote ticket. <I originally called this the Peyote ticket. until a friend misunderstood me and thought I had said "Coyote", which is a western expression meaning legalized prostitution. That sounded alright to me, so... ) 
2) Our platform be based on the solid proposition that, while we are in office, no members of any administrative positions in the University may talk to one another. The HPC won't talk to the SLC.who won't talk to the Central Staff, who won't talk to the Provost. who won't talk to the President, who won't talk to anybody but us. This could make things very interesting, especially onthe nights that we all go out bowling. 
3l We endorse the elimination of the Obst"rver and change it into a typographical mistake hall~f-fame. I will be editor, and you will be the chief contributor. We will keep the people from the Hadley School for the Blind as typists, since they do such a nice job 
now . ('lu·is Smith: Fred--I mixed up a fresh batch of chemicals from 
mv stock. The smallest concentrate I could find comes in the one­ga.llon size and they are expensive that way. As soon as I go to a dealer. I'II get that other stuff for you. Anyhow, you gave me $25. I returned $10. All told, the total hit will be just over $18. So figure 
vou owe me $3. Things are tight, so no hurry. · A: Well, Chris, Itry to keep my boys happy. I think that all these chemicals will come in handy when I run for Vice-President. Maybe our campaign slogan will be "Keep Flying!" Drugs have kept our typists and lay~ut (no pun intended) people happy for years. they can do the same for the people under the Dome. 
l'attit' Comwy: I suppose there is a good reason why the typing on the editorial pages appeared in the haphazard way that it did on Tuesday. However, speaking as one who can't read what I wrote, I can't imagine what excuse ther is for such sloppiness. Please explain. I would hate to yell and scream at the wrong person. 
A: Don't worry, Pattie, you've come to the right person. If you'll remember. the night that I did that page was also the night that I put my fist through a glass window and threatened Tom Drape with exile on a train coach with John Denver and Helen Reddy trading off jokes and groupie stories with him. I believe it was the bottle of l\1ogen David 20-20, coupled with Chris' chemicals, that put me in the deranged state that I was in. Please excuse the errors, next time I will know enough to stick to Tequila. 
(;n·~ ('or~an: Dear Fred, Why are you no longer the bright, cht•erful voice on WSND that used to wake us up at eight o'clock in the morning? 
.\: This is a long story, Greg, but that's never stopped me before. Tlte dazzling world of rock and roll takes a heavy toll on the people who live in it. I was no exception. I used to enjoy my job there, until theymadem.e begin to play songs in a certain arrangement. It's hard Pnough to get up in time for an eight o'clock show, but to get up so that you'll be able to play a "golden oldie", followed by a "current single" and then a "peppy album cut" was too much for nw. I began to hallucinate, imagining that I was Don Imus, calling J<'ather Hesburgh and trying to order five hundred communion hosts. "consecrated and to go." This quickly led to reading imaginary news reports, having to do with high government of­ficials paying off Hollywood starlets to dance naked in vats of Chef­Boy-Ar-Dee Beefaroni. That did it: I was fired . 
l'two related inuiries) AI Rutht"rford: Dear Fred, As I take my pen in hand, I tend to think about all the OSCARS you have in yourhair! What of Naomi? .John Amantl"a: Who are you? Who is Curious George? And Babar? What is the nature of reality? 

:\: I didn't think that I would be found out this easily. My relatives are all hiding out in Argentina, or as graduate students and beat poets. I wouldn't be here now if I hadn't talked the Fuehrer into letting me get away from Buenos Aires for awhile. I wrote this under duress. I don't know where Patty Hearst is, but I would like to wish her a Happy Vaneltine's Day. "We love you,
Tania!" Tom Dt·apl": Fred, the editorial page is starting to look like something.dredged out of the steam pipejl. Where do you get your columnist?. Straighten up or you're out! 
A: I didn't think you would understand the nature of the religious conversion that I am trying to accomplish op this campus. People like you seldom do. You've gone power mad, Drape, and can't see the world around you crumbling. Look to the one true spirit for the answer, Tom. Join Father Griffin and I as we attempt to start a new religion. Smoking and eating will be major sacraments, as well askeeping dogs, singing from the collected songs of Cole Porter, and chanting the immortal •'As Time Goes By''. 
As far as my columnists go, <That's not very far), why don't you talk to them personally. I happen to know that there are some very good prospects among those people. For instance, AI Sondej is 
currently working on an opus entitled "The Three Bears, or, Who's Been Eating My 1.5 Bowl of Porridge ?". 
Bill Brink: Dear Fred, One night, under the influence of gatorade, you abandoned your notorious lethargy and streaked the south quad shouting passages from the Koran. Later, at a press conference, you remarked that Muhammedism had affected not 6nly your life style, but your bathing habits as well. Could youexplain? 
1\: Not really. It will all be revealed when I run for Vice­President. Suffice it to say that I am currently planning to untie all of the countires of the world, bringing peace and brotherhood under the auspices of the "National Lobby of Religious Women". I believe'that these women, equipped with the power of the knuckle­slapping ruler, can find a way to bring happiness and contentment tn all nations. 



Friday, February 14, 1975 
the observer 
7 

aliphant 









DOOIISBUBJ 

~GI31tu~­


'HI, FERGUSON, FBI •• , OH, HI, KELLY, CIA • • • MEET WILSON, PHONE COMPANY ••• HI • • • 
• o' 

FUNNIES __-, .··. ·.:Pt.Q~ific.· Lampooner-y! ! 
.. 
-. '.. ·' . . .

---------, ,.-----------, ...' ~·. 
IUAIT~I-YOtJ HE./11< . •· • : : · . ' : ~; YAWN! HOUJ 7HIS, CHit!=! I STAYtO OON'T aost IT II tJPAU Nltm . · · · . · ' SEC, R£AUY POIAIERFVt.. lr--~....-----,------.. ,.-----------,
lJAN.. 5TtJHI AU 'IOtJ HAVE TO [)0 IS TRIINSCRJBt OKAY,
.:=J\ 

PAN­H6~H6&1 I CANT PUTIT Hlzl NUl tJNlJ&t<­TO 9W. 1/&E, /6, SlJINlJIT.. 
_.I\ liE&/ I

,_...., 
jim rasini 
tuft£, I 60T 6«JlJ 11/'1/) /11/Rfi/) lAST NIGHT; /IN[) ;;;.. "6/../P~.
71/t /JlJRIJS JlJ5T ·. PPTPt£ PI POfii¥P ()IT! ·.ZIP. XXPJ-T \ COPII /.JPZZ." 
fJ/HAT?! 
tE1 ME "PXXT? NOOB... SE& 7HATf PfltJIP-S/.ABEJI£ KPPT SAt.MIXK!
\ 
tiPPY. 60RPtFR." 
r {)f{)N'T 

I ~ 
j 
• 
~ 
1 
i 

---~---­

the observer Friday, February 14, 1975 
Letters to a Lonely God 
on the lightning as valentine 
reverend robert griffin 



----~r.ur:w Memorial Concert 
for Jim Ward 

Sat. 9:00 pm Washington Hall 
9:00 Pete Snake 
9:30 Mike Armstrong 
9:50 Tom Maynard 
10:10 Jim ~resser 
10:40 Jack Kelleher 
11:1 0 Begert, Blanford Bro., Steinman 
12:00 Shaheer, Schneider, Mandolini 
Sun. 8:00 pm St. Mary's Collegiate Choir at Little Theatre of Moreau Hall 

Donation $.50 All proceeds to charity ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j ......~~~~sored by NO Stud~nt ~ovt . 
.
... ' 

The heavens are as inscrutable as ever, this morning. The sun is shining as brightly as though the season were trying to be springtime, but there is a winter chill in the air, and occasionally, there are snow flurries as February frets and struts for her brief hour on the stage. Still, there are no voices speaking in Trinitarian accents from behind the clouds; no bright bands of angels; no prophets newly arrived from the country where God broods alone in a fellowship more inaccessible than that of honeymooners. 
So the heavens are inscrutable, despite the pretensions of popes and pastors, preachers and faith healers, poets and mystics. ouija boards and rabbits' feet. God is not taking interviews thses days; t>Vangelists a1.d biographers need not apply. 
Miracles may be hoped for, but they are mostly reserved for the tourists at Lourdes and l'atima. Heaven guards its secret more dosdv than those dead men who tell no tales. All the really authentic revelations seemt>d to end sometime soon after I and II Thessalonians; everything else is Kahlil Gibran. unless you count Dante. I would always count Dante. if it weren't for the Inferno. Mediaeval torture chambers turn me off; rivers of boiling blood strike me as fiendish. The Inferno does not represent any great compliemnt to the Creator 
heaven guards its secret more closely than those dead men who tell no tales ... 
I guess it must be obvious I've been suf­fering from th(• theological blahs. It's the Sunday morning of my life, and I seem to have been on an endless Saturday night party, all Blue Nun wines and monkish cheeses; I'm suffering with vertigo from the games and the foxtrots. It seems that all my conversations lately have been on the subject of God. When I've talked about people, it's been to say what God expects of them. or for them to say what God expects of me. The problem is, God never says what 




OBSERVER FEATURES 
He expects of any of us. One thing you must admire about God is the way He keeps aloof from our conversations. Once upon a time, it is reported, He told us we should feed the hungry, honor our parents, and love one another, but when has He said it lately? One half of the world is always trying to send the other half off on holy errands: say the rosary, be a Big Brother, pray for the in­tentions of the Pope. The other half is always announcing its intention of doing its own thing: getting a divorce, coming out gay, getting a vasectomy. The first half think the second half is degenerate; the second half think the first half is balmy. Both halves are sure that God, if there is a God, smiles approvingly on them. As for God, He don't plant taters; he don't plant cotton; like ol' man river, He just keeps rolling along. 
The radio preacher says: "It's all here in the Bible, God's game plan for history. Here's what He wants you to do: be born again." The Catholic Church says sure, that's right. I was born again when I was baptized: but not when I was sprinkled by the Congregationalists, or totally immersed by the Baptists, or confirmed by that Anglican bishop. "Those Protestants sacraments are chancey," says the Catholic Church. "It's safer to do it the Roman 
way." So I did it the Roman way; and just to be sure, I got ordained and joined a religious community, besides. 
"Welcome to the vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience," said the Master of Novices. "But don't forget; priests can also perish. You'd better make the Nine First 
Fridays." 

So I made the Nine First Fridays. On my confessor's recommendation, I also enrolled in the Green Scapular, the Brown Scapular, the Legion of Mary, and the Blue Army, and I made an act of total consecration to Mary according to the formulas of the Blessed De Montford. All of these faith fraternities promised me either the grace of a Happy Death, or guaranteed me the intercession of the Blessed Mother on behalf of a sinful, atheistic, godless, Communistic world about to be zapped by a grieved and angry God. 
So I had God's mother on my side; a pope infallible in matters of faith and morals; the Nine Promises made to Sister Margaget Mary, the vows and the sacraments, and a relic of the Little Flower I kept pinned to 
when the lightning happens, you know that none of it has been a mistake. 
my T-shirt. Then one morning I got the 
news: "You've got to make a cursillo. You 
can't know that you're a Christian, if you 
haven't made cursillo." 
"Good Lord," I thought to myself, "Can't 
you recognize my sincerity? Isn't it enough 
that you called me to be a Catholic? Do I 
gotta be a Christian, besides?" 
So I made the damned cursillo; but soon, 
I could tell that my friends--the ones who 
were hearing the voices of God--didn't think 
that cursillos were enough. 
"You haven't received a baptism of the 
Holy Spirit," they said. 
"How can you tell?" I asked. 
"Isn't it obvious?" they said. "You haven't received any of the fruits of the Paraclete: discernment of spirits, prophesy, healing, speaking in tongues? When is the last time you spoke in tongues, Griffin?" 
They made me feel quite shabby about not speaking in tongues. But another thought occurred to me. "You know," I said, "as a Catholic turned Christian, who has been baptized three times. confirmed twice, and 
even ordained once--·if God has not .nade the proper inroads into m)life by now, I don't think He is really trying." 
And so it goes. One friend tells me it's Bible reading I need; another friend says it's yoga. A priest friend, who seems on the point of swapping the Pope for the Dalai Lama.says: "You've been looking for a god out there"--and he waves his finger in in­definite directions--but the god you need is the god insides you." 
"Isn't it enough to switch denominations?" I say. "Must I switch deities in mid stream?" 
"Try lsd as a sacrament of awareness," he said. "Try it with a trusted friend as guide while listening to sacred music. Then go out and look at a wisteria tree; you will see the flow of energy from the Universal Being. It's an experience like Moses must have had, when he saw the Burning Bush." 
"Spooky," I said to myself, "and more than a little nuts." 
I decided instead to stick with the Eucharist. It's a funny thing about the Eucharist. I just finished reading a book about the Eucharist written by a Jesuit priest. In his discussion, he discarded all the priest magic, all the superstition, all the mistaken theology of transubstantiation, 
and we were back to simpll' bread and wine. The Eucharist of the Real Presence began to sound an awful lot like the merely sym­bolic bread and grape juice of the Protestant Communion service. If this Jesuit is right, it makes the odyssey of faith seem a lot like a circular journey back to the days when I was sprinkled and immersed. 
Sometimes I wish God would speak up in 
His own defense. Still, the heavens remain 
inscrutable, and I'm not frightened. I've 
grown enough as a Christian so that I don't 
need signs and wonders to believe. 

Yesterday, Ash Wednesday, there was a 
visit of lightning. and the Lord was in the 
lightning, and the Lord was the 
lightning. 

When the lightning happens, you know that none of it has been a mistake: not a day of the priesthood, nor all the fumbling at­tempts to live a Catholic and'i>r Christian life. There is nothing mystical about the lightning--it's just a simple flash of insight, an intuitive awareness of Christ as the center of truth, revealing the loving Father Who keeps aloof from our con­versations. 
The heavens are inscrutable today: no voices, no visions, no newly arrived prophets. Though it sounds silly to say it, God never even sent a Valentine. But would it be a cheapening or 'demeaning of the lightning to say that lightning is what God sends us instead of valentines? that lightning is a whimsy of omnipotence by which Omnipotence says: "I really love vou"? · I have neither lightning nor valentines to give. but still I would like to say it; I would prefer saying it to being inscrutable: "I love you, dear reader. Darby and I both say Happy Valentine's Day." 
• • ' ' ' ; ,. ,~ ,· ' ~o' ,· ,· ,· ,· • \ \ • ' • • • • • • 
Friday, February 14, 1975 
the observer 
9 
AIA/SC PRESENTS

For ND, shooting Williams I 
not sitting 'Duck' anymore 
by John Walsh watching Austin Carr on 
television." 
Screaming, maniacal fans, "My first time at Notre Dame prancing striped officials and a was the USC game last year and I solid ten point performance had really like the enthusiasm of the vanished; they belonged to fans. I always wanted a good Monday's memories. The low education and to play all. Notre drone of the soothing whirlpool Dame gives you a good exposure to began to relax Don "Duck" academics as well as athletics." Williams and his bothersome ankle "It hasn't been that hard ad­after a long practice session with justing to the competition. I Digger Phelps' basketball squad. played summers in the Coca Cola 
Duck sat back, the excitement of leagues against other college a young freshman in the big time players. It's pretty tough, you've shining in his eyes as he reflected got to be quick and it really teaches 
back on the road to the ACC. "I've you to jump. Once in a while I'd played around the playgrounds in play with Austin or Collis Jones. A 
D.C. as long as I qm remember. lot of good players would be Year round, even in the winter, I around." would go out and sh<\bt. If my But at N.D., veiled by the mother or anyone ever wanted to shadows of such talents as fellow see me. I'd be around the D.C. resident Adrian Dantley, the playground. I've always loved to steady performance of Don shoot." Williams proves he is no quack. In 
And shoot he does. At Mackin the South Carolina game, the 6-3, High School in Washington he 175 lb. guard was anything but broke Austin Carr's scoring record waterlogged. He scored a team amassing 1579 points in three high 16 points while using his seasons. ''We won the league title speed and ball hawking to make last year. But it was hard, we were four steals. really small and had to dig and run "I can't feel any pressure to live and I got to shoot a lot." up to Austin's records, at this 
A life in the playgrounds to all point. I'm beginning to blend into hours and chasing after Austin the team. Being a freshman, I'm C'arr's milestone consumes time just trying to work things out. No and energy and would leave out one is putting any pressure on me, l'verything else. Right? Well, everyone is helping me out. The Duck had a little time left to study main thing is adjustment. Playing for a better than 90 ·per cent ball and studying is hard, but it's average and graduate third in his really exciting." class. Where does one pick up a name 
"I never thought about following like "Duck"? the family tree? his Austin's style. But a few people pronunciation? Well, besides compare us since we went to the being a natural follow to his formal same school. The school paper had name monald "Duck"), it could a story called 'No Quacks Heard be said to be staring the observant As Williams Compared to Carr.' I fan in the face. "I picked it up at never really thought about it too­the Youth Games <Boston l from much. He's a lot bigger and the coach. I guess it's because stronger than I am and tough people always say I flap my arms 
underneath. We both like to shoot and legs when I'm dribbling." 
Looking ahead, Duck expressed 
an intention to somewhat emulate 
his older brother Fred, who played 
basketball at Howard and studied 
business. "I've always liked math 
and I'd like to go into either 
management or finance." 
"I just want to have a balance to 
play well both defensivelyand 
offensively, and become adjusted 
at school. But I really like it. I like 
the players, the coach and the 
school." 
Hopefully, the fans and others 
who may expect too much too soon 
from the "Duck" will share his 
hopes and appreciate him as much 
as he appreciates Notre Dame. 
Women win 
h~ ( 'hris Smith Photo Editor 

A highly charged Irish Women's Baskl'lball Team entered the ACC arena last night, to defeat a taller, better prepared Kalamazoo Womm's Team. for their first win of the year. The halftime score was :l:J-16, Notre Dame, with the final score 44-:36, Irish. 
The heretofore lossely organized defense functioned as a team last night. and effectively shut out much of Kalamazoo's shooting. In previous games, the Irish defense resembled that of a playground basketball team. For the first time in the season. the Irish made use of organized defensive formations, and the improvement was mirrorred by the score. 
For their next match. the Irish WomPn travel to .Joliet. Ill., to play Lewis College. Tip off will be 12::30 ('ST. The game after that will be the last of the season. as an ND­SJ\1(' rematch convenes at the .'\('C. The starting tim!' of the rematl'h will be announced in the near future. 
but I'm quicker." Duck gingerly tested his ankle 
I I I I I I 
and smiled nostalgically as he 
• • • BEER SPECIAL 
remembered how he decided to l'ome to South Bend. "When I was 
this Friday and Saturday
in the tenth grade my teacher told me if there was one thing he wanted me to do it was to go· to Notre Dame. I always kept it in mind. I would think of it a lot 
HOPS 'N' SPIRITS
WAA trying 
81 2 E. LASALLE 

to build 
(continued from page 12) 
ones deserve more personnel or 
SUNDAY MASSES
equipment. Their main advantage now is that they are a structured, 
J\1\AIN CHURCH organized association, one that will be recognized by University 
SAT 5:15PM 
FR. DAVID SCHLAVER C.S.C.
athletic officials. ·'Specific problems can be 
SUN 9:30AM 
FR. DICK CONYERS C.S.C. worked on instead of just com­
SUN 10:45 AM FR. JAMES T. BURTCHAELL
plained about." notes Hotvedt. "If we have an organization to do it 
SUN 12:15 PM FR. BILL TOOHEY C.S.C. C.S.C. 
and regular channels to go through, it will be easier." 
Hi~ht now the associ~tion is still , --------------------------.
relatively new. Poss1ble events 1 , they are considering are a year-1 THIS SUN DAY NIGHT (FEB 16) lSI
end banquet. a decathalon, and 1 • 1 track meets for all girls. But these IN D & S M C N1G H T AT S H U LA'S II
plans are secondary to the I • • • • • •1 organization's prime objective, NO COVER CHARGE WITH THIS AN
that of providing direction for the I Ull development of the women's I I athletic program at Notre Dame. N 0 W A P P E A R I N G 
Anyone interested in joining or learning about the association is urged to contact Jane Lammers \7858>. Ellen Hughes (8020) or SUDS 


Maureen Maloney (7515.) 
FOR THE BEST 
L SAT 

PREPARATION CLASSES NOW FORMING TO BE HELD IN LAYFAVETTE, INDIANA 
ON MAR. 16, 22, APR. 6, 13 LIMITED ENROLLMENT FOR INFORMATION WRITE OR 
CALL 31 2-782 -2185 
L.S.A.T. PREPARATORY SEMINAR 7 SOUTH DEARBORN. 
CHICAGO, IL. 60603 
AND liSTEN 


NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS 
on US. 31 bttwetn Niles. So. Bend-Free Parking-683-4350 ~~ EIJIITAI.IIT .... t P.l. nu 2 A.l.




·-------------------------..1 
Q
• DO 

tCI~A\.IRILIIE tCI~A\.IPILII~l 
THIE IKIIID TlfiE ~AW~I ~Ill() I~ 5f)( 

SUNDAY OFDECB 1JJC13 ~DRCIDfOIDUCECIUDUDRCE AiDUDD 

SUNSHINE PHOMOTIONS PRESENTS 

with special guests 
MAN 

SATURDAY MARCH 1 8:00p.m. MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
Tickets: $5.50 (advance) 
$6.50 (day of show l 1\ow on sale at Morris Civic Auditorium and at Boogie Records in ('ollege Square, Mishawaka 

.. 

--. -~-----------~ 
10 the observer Friday, February 14, 1975 
nip, ust like you're first here, you're first ith me. Have a good Valentine's Day nd ski night.Love, Snot 
isa, appy Valentine's Day. You're my dy and I love you bunches. 
Love always, Ex. Secret Pal .S. Remember.. f'm the one! 

t.GOG -Eq, Eq, Eq, stop horsing 
• round. , Adolf 
arl, Dave, Dennis, Jerry, Kevin, 
~ 
ich and all friends: appy Valentine's Day. , Maima & Sue 

Lilrk: ~orry we're late, but you know how it Is Hope you had a happy b-day.
Love, Flannairy, Doc, Mar, and Rose 

Dear Mom, Happy Valentine's Day. Thanks for all the candy. You're the greatest!
Love from aII the Observers 

Valentine,
.. I lost the key to your room, but you found the key to my heart. I Cheetah 
iana, 
I 


Banana, I got your job, now how about yourbody? Love, Oreo 
Happy Valentine's Day, fourth floor Stanford! Luv, the Four Musketeers, alias the Snow Queens 
Happy Valentine's Day to the three musketeers of Lyons From Pat, Dan, and Brian. 
Uncle Bill and Uncle Ken Don't you guys ever sleep? The Catholic Girl's-school girls. 
Hap(JY Valentine's to the big cheese of my life. Love from your b and b 
My Libertyville honey, Help! It's cold outside. 
--------------------''_:,_:_PeP. pizza 
Barb Boylan 
Exams to qualify for advanced studies are only gtven on Valentine's Day. 
Teacher 
Alice, Mother of all arkies, you're our valentine all year. Students of Architecture 
"Boone" . 
Happy Valentine's Day! The Gringo Blue 
Terry: Happy Valentine's Day from your Thursday Day Editor. 
Dan: Happy Valentine's Day. "The Harem" 
To Tim McKay: Happy Valentine's Day. Lyons Hall 
To 11th Floor F fanner: Happy Valentine's Day. Much love, 113 and Company 
It's been years, my JoAnn dear Since Emil T. and freshman year. But we might not live to make it thru If we meet tonight, at 8:30, 
;f,f~sse Macheca will give us special 
When he finds out we broke parietals
AKCS . 
Ann, Jule, Melissa, Andy, Wtlhout you our love stories are in­complete.
Happy Valentine's Day anyway 

Loretta and Chris (310 Walsh}: Happy Valentine's Day. ecre mtrers m Hof y Cross 1
TwoS I Ad . . 

To red-eyed Libby, Did you find your glasses? Try your nose. Luv, Spic 
Butch, We can't go on meeting like this. I'm glad you're here. HappyValentine's Day. Love, 'De Kid 
Benje's Father, I'm burning up with mad passionate love for you. Always,Your Little Girl 
J.C.II Happy 2nd Valentine's Day Love, Sue 
A.L.W. Business is dropping off, but you're more fun anyway. HappyValentine's. Your bashful Model 
Wonder Boy! Thanks lots tor last night, Rich, Hopefully again soon, your Loving Valentine, Debbie 
Wolz: There's mistletoe hanging from my coattails. MAC 
Jim s, say this in four seconds or less! ''Twoallbeefpatties­spec ia lsaucelettucechees epicklesonasesameseedbun" and you can be my Valentine! Love, Your Secret Admirer 
Sara, vouley-vous coucher avec moi ce soir? Love Duck ' 
Cousin Patty, Happy Valentine's Day. Thanks tor the birthday gift. 
------------~Ringo Bob 
Scarlet Lady from Palos, Damn the ruts! Full speed ahead! 1-1-5-9-10-1 Love, Cactus Lancer
-::---:--____.:....:....:.._.=...:: 
To Cathie, Love from Princeton (you old tart}. 
__________________F_r_o_m__T_U T to aII 
Bib Bad Wolf, 
I love you. What more can 1 say?Things take time so take yours but don't take forever because 1need' you. 
your Little Munchkin 
To Camille of Walsh, 
An anonymous wish for a HappyValentine's Day from an even more anonymous admir~r. 
-:--------------~u.J. Acct. 
Sandy-machos+ masochism equalsulcers and a dictatorship. Women +a christian philosophy based on 
~~~~?u~~nand equality equals a 
Pick one, on your own. 

ear Augie, ave your chest tor me. Love, The Cover Hog 
ear U.D., 
I hope you outlast everyone, coach. appy Valentine's Day. Love, velveteen Rabbit 
o a warmed-over biscuit: appy Valentine's Day.Mr. Right, Robert Redford, illsbury Dough Boy 
ary Houvouras, 
here have you been hiding? I've een huntington tor you tor weeks. ou're driving me out of my mine. I 'II 
oar soon. Sentimental Gentleman 
Ron DiLeO, Roses are Red, Violets are Blue, 1nstead of the Rat. We'd like to---you. 
Mar & Mol 
1-------------------­
To my precious crunch, Happy Valentine's Day!From the Mad Pass ionate Neapolitan Lover 
EDDIE: 
Carmen and Douglas will always say Hi! Happy valentine's Day. 
DIANE 
Emling,How're you qetlin' along? Stick around tor a Happy Valentine 
With much love. TED 
Annie Oakley,Hopes lor future palpllat,ons. Happy Valentine's Day. Love, Wild Bill 
B1g Buddy,How can I help but love you more every day? 
Little Irish Girl 
To the sunshine of my life: Have a Happy Valentine's Day (late). Will the sun shine 1n Florida? 
Love you, The Sundance Kid 
To Chris B. in Chemistry: D1d you once suppose That by the time this day did come You'd be loved bY all my toes! 
M the F 
To My Petite Little Waffle: 
Once upon a time, I said you had money. You got a little mad, And said, don't be funny. 
For my birthday last week, You went on a spending spree. I think yo4r present was, A book about a tree. 
Now I like the book and all, It's the best 1 ever read. The back page was so fine, I think it's qone to my head. 
But tor our birthday dinner that night, I really must say, You were caught short bV ten, And I want it right away! 
ED 
Blossom. Absence makes the heart grow fonder. Oh yes, I love you. 
Joe Oarsman 
Dear woo. Just wanted to wish you a Happy Valentine's Day. 
Love, Dinny 
Jean, Jean, roses are red But even more expensive. There was another time, And what a time it has been. 
Alan 
Happy Valentine's Day to the Kankakee Con and Johnny Bojangles. Love, Cool Kerry and Betho 
Big AI: Your love has saved millions. Just remember keep some for yourself. Happy Valentines Day! 
Your fellow x-janitress 
Dining Hall Crush, Ask me again and I 'II eat dinner with you. Happy Valentines Day! 
John from Dillon: "Hi!" Let's say a little more next time. Happy Valentine's Day! 
Scott and Morrissey friends: Your two Badin loves wish you a Happy Valentine's Day! 
Bob: Don't know your address but wanted to wish you a Happy valentine's Day. 
Barb 
Vicki: I've never been so happy as at 303 Vernon street. 
Joe K. Hambone 
Cream Puff: Give me some Italian loving and I'll give you some Irish beef. 
Surf 

Bev, you're the greatest. Next year you'll get your dozen red roses, I promise. 
Dear Elessar, Minas Tirith has triumphed over Mordor. Your arrival pales even the sun. Happy Valentine's Day, my shining Elf-Stone. 
Love, Gandalf. 
Babe, Happy Valentine's Day. I'll let you know when our fast-approaching time is here. 
Your rove, P.J. 
Kathy,If this world were a flower garden And your smiling face a flower there in Sunflower with the eyes of blue 
Golden Hands 
8958 Hello, Is Matt there? ... Joe c. Did you get my Valentine? 
Silly Rabbit, I'll love you forever. Happy Valentine's Day. 
Love, Fat A .. 
Monkey Face: Happy Valentine's Day to you and your internal problem. 
From a Banana 
Abelardo: Guardame ese quezo bien refrigerado 
M.E. 

Jorge: Quede encinta!!! Tu Sabes Quien 
Vickie, Welcome home. Happy Valentine's Day. 
Love, Bill 
Deb Cislo and Barb Bowman, You've made our time at ND wor­thwhile. 
Your admirer, BS, TR 
Matthew T. I love you more than anyone else. Matthew 'f. 
Happy Valentine's Day, Little Bird! Love, "Big Bird" 
LOVE AND HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY TO ALL MY FRIENDS IN STUDENT GOVERNMENT AND STUDENT UNION 
"SENIOR PARTNER" 

Observer Staff: I love you friends. Mom {The Candy Lady) 
Jim J., Dan T., Lee G., Art F.: I miss you. Love, Mom. 
Patti--From BP to Barcelona, from the catho to the apts., it's been real! love and onions, ENJOY! 
Hennette Ah flute! Je t'aime... Rene. 
Ms. Hooty, Yatchee Cohen, je nay... me. 
Mary Cui, je t'aime, mais ces mots ne me suffisent guere...souris...rat. 
adaad no. 53 Happy Valentine's Day to Kenry K, the DDADa king.
from H. K. substitte no. 53. 
Happy V.D. to D.B. from Me and Gerard 
rs: _iu still remember us? ber you. Be our valentines ore. rianne and Judi 
TWAS AS THERE, AND SO TOOK VELOPEO PUT RE WHERE YOU LD SEE YOURSELF 
VAL NT Take ott t Also the kic From what's That leaves yo w don't you s_ee? Now what you m 0 IS make a Sign. 
cybil shepherd, It will take me tour d hi to Freehold. Counting th 
new jersey turnpike. robert redford 
sue. It will take me four davs to hitchhike to Rahway. Counting the cars on the new jersey turnpike. 
weirdo 

Quiggs, You're such a tunny Valentine! 
Love, Ray 
ND Women's B-ball team: You've had it tough so far but you always have a lot of heart. Get tough and beat SMC ... then go have a drink. Happy Valentine's Day! 
An Ardent Fan 
The Snapper Lives Signed, Zusie 
Frict.y, February 14, 1975 
JMF: Previous set backs only hinder per. fection. Relax, be yourself, and be 
mine! 
The Kid 
POO· 

1..2 .. 3!!! Happy Valentine's Day. Pug 
J.D.R. Every evening is enchanted with you. Happy Valentine's Day. 
the Stranger 
Hennessy, 1 love you, Brennan & Beau. Happy Valentine's Day. Argo 
To the super 

D.O. How many limes Let's double it. 
Lotsa Lux and Happ Day,Love, The Bum 
Mike: Happy Valentine's Day. letting me borrow your h 
Guess Who? 
I love 
Club. 
valen-

Beach Baby: be my 
and forever. 1 love you, The Chicago Kid 
-----·-~---411~-
Farkle: Through The s The , y my sunshine, 
oh irl in the pink hat. 
al PJC. 

Impossible? Not me. Just left. Knees and couches. Happy Hearts Day. 246 
Bill, Happy Valentine's Day, darlin. Keep us in lust. 
All of my love, Kathy 
Edgar tonight? Kelissa 
Nelson, You are really the eat's meow and the bee's knees. What the devil? 
Fabian 

Have a HaP,PY Valentine's Day Princess . 'They go round and round." 
Love, The King 
Happy Birthday Fitz'wall. Meet me at the rock at 12 o'clock. Love, B & L 

the observer 11 
To Mr. John Kuczynski (alias Jack): I hope this special greeting may Let me be the first to say Be my Valentine today! Barb 
Dear Bud: Happy Valentine's. What I've gainedfrom being with you I couldn't say.. But any need for knowing anyone but you 1s what I •ve lost. 
Love, Kath 
Attention: Robert J. Kontz: I thought I'd wish you here, a day That's more than special in every way, Since written into every line is: "You're my special Valentine!" 
Debbie 
Sandy, AN IMMEDIATE END TO ALL SATURDAY NIGHTS! I love you Friday-wise. 
Dave 
VALENTINE SPECIAL·· Judge Calvert Potter requests female ap. plicants for Best Kisser of the Year contest. Begins today. Call 4706. 
Announcing grand Housewarming for tonrght, Feb. 14, at St. Joseph's High School. for Larry and Molly, the blushing Munich newlyweds. Toothless says. "His hair! Oh, his hair'" 
"Two and Only": Thanks tor the understanding latelY·· I've been a creepo. 
Love always, Speedy 
FOR MARY LOUISE: Our living legend at the DOME. You always make us feel at home. We can never say thanks enough For all your charm and grace and stuff 
DOME Staffers 
To the gals of B-P, first floor. south: Ye nuts, and nuts, and nuts. Thank you for being you. Most of all, never find sanity nor reality. Ye nuts, and nuts, and nuts. 
Poopie, You're the most beautiful and precious flower in my life. i love you. 
The Great Bumblebee 
Happy Valentine's Day to the cute little girl from Badin. (Yellow coat and South Dining Hall eater, is all I know!) Love ya, HH 
To the original Madam Fifi: Roses are red, Violets are blue, The raffle books are gone, What about you? 
The Princely Frog 
To my one and onlies K.K., Thunderjugs, Big Janet, High Rise, Barrel Woman, Spot, MAC, K.K., Fancy Shirt, Silver Hair, Little Suzie, K.K. Be my Valentines. 
Love, Rocks, 8938 
To ttre burning bush the best buns I've ever bitten (the only buns I've ever bitten). 
Love and kisses, Cakes 
To Rose. The world is yourvalentine. Find what you want and take it. Nice waistline!! 
Love, the fat farmer 
Ernre, -----­1 love redheads! Happy Valentine's Day! B. 
Cutie, Wish I could be with you on Valen­tine's Day. 
Love you! "Goofy" 
Dear Kathy, You're undoubtedly the best. Love, Bob 
Happy Valentine's Day to my S.L. Cut the G.A. and let's boogie. 
Sheila, Serai Ia mia Valentina? lo 
Lusty Lady, I had to waite Cause you were late. A lot of snow But I rove you so. 
The Best 
To the Greatest Brownie Maker: Sky-high; Miami; 23; Astronomy; Hot Chocolate; Today ... Thanks! Happy Valentine's Day! 
The Typhoon 
Marcie, After all the work you've done on these, we hope your Valentine's Day will be great. 
--All of us 
OS : I
WANTED 

Married couple needed for live-in houseparents tor foster home. Salary. Write P.E.P., Inc. 3012 S. Twickenham, South Bend, 46614. 
Need ride to St. Louis weekend of Feb. 
21. Call Joanne at 6997. 
Need riders to Madison . leaving Fri., Feb. 14. Return Sun. Call Joe, 289-3923. 
Need ride to Phila. Fri. Feb. 14. Call Bill, 1409. 
Need ride to Ann Arbor tor this weekend. Call Betsy at 7904. 
Two need ride to Bloomington, Ind., Feb. 14. Call Chris, 1650 or 1652. 
I need a ride to Indiana University (Bloomington J or Purdue university 
(W. Lafayette). Will share expenses. Any weekend. Call Michelle. 291-1598. 
Need ride to U. of I. Champaign. Urbana, Ill. Weekend of Feb. 14-16, Feb. 28 · March 2. Share driving, expenses. Marilyn, Mary Helen, 4541. 
Do a kid a good turn! Bureau of South Bend would like to have your basketball tickets tor all or any one game you wish in order to have one of our kids experience a highlight of Notre Dame life. Drop off your tickets at Urban Studies at the Rock. For info call 3424 or 272-9321. Ask tor Rogelio. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES Renters: tor renter's insurance call Those interested in charter flight to 
Glen or Jess Neely, 272-6565. State 
Los Angeles bring full payment of $156 Enter the Mock Stock Market, "Old to 1-C Lafortune Center at 3:30 on
Farm Insurance. Business Building," or LaFortune. Monday, Feb. 17.
Sunday New York Times, Washington Party at Woody's, 1223 Woodward 
Post, at Pandora's on Sunday. Call for BBAs & MBAs: Opportunities ad­
a reserve copy, 233-2342. 602 N. St.
Ave., Fri., Feb. 14, at 9:00. Call 234­vising businesses, cooperatives and
Louis Blvd at South Bend Avenue.
5523 for directions. 
credit unions. See Peace Corps-Vista recruiters in library, Feb. 17-20.
Money?? Morrissey Loan will lend up SMC sophomore class VAR 1ETY to $150 for 30 days, 1 day waiting 
SHOW. Talent wanted none period. Basement of LaFortune, daily, 
refused!! Tryouts Sunday, Feb. 16th, Please return unused crutches to 
11:15 to 12:15. 2:00. Regina North Lobby. ??'s call infirmary. Injured students need 
5735. them. Get your credit! Happy Hour at Louie's. 7:30 to 8:30, Mon. thru Thursday. Special price on If you grew up on a farm, know how to a pint of beer. drive tractor, repair equipment, etc. LOST AND FOUND 
others need what you know. See Peace Disciplinary action hanging over your Corps-Vista recruiters in library, Feb. 
Lost: in girls car while" hitchhiking. head~ Call Student Govt, 7668. We One left hand black glove. 232-4927,
17-20. 

may be able to help. Tim Architects who can adapt local
Western Electronics, 24 hour TV material and construction methods to Found: scarf in aftermath of party at
service. 1530 Western Ave., 282-1955. 
design of community buildings. Serve N D apts. Please call 232-4069 and in developing Nations. See Peace identify.
Typing: papers, theses, dissertations. 
Corps Recruiters in library, Feb. 17·
Reasonable rates reliable service. 
20. Found: 1 ladies Timex watch with link272-0859 after 6 pm. 
band. Also, 1 gold plated ball-point 
Innovative persons to teach adults, pen, one pr. of men's plastic frame Intensive Language Training in inner city dropouts, and bi-lingual glasses. Mem. Lib. Lost and Found Hausa, Swahili, Tologo, Fijian, Thai, children throughout U.S. Elementary Counter. Korean, Spanish or Portuguese · to university levers in all subjects in FREE!! See the Peace Corps countries overseas. See Peace Corps­Lost: brown leather purse. Please Recruiters in Library, Feb. 17-20. Vista recruiters in library, Feb. 17-20. return. Reward. 4543. 
green, and grey case. Lost Sat. nite between Grace and Cavanaugh. If 
found please call 1769 or 7827. 
Found: pair of glasses in a cloth case near Zahm. call 8231. 
Found: 1 pr. of gold frames between Grace and Dining Hall. Call 7758. 
FOR RENT 
Houses ranging from two to seven bedrooms. Completely furnished. Available tor May or Sept. 234-9364. : 
Now renting 2 to 5 bedroom homes. Completely furnished tor Sept. Call 234-9364. 
FOR SALE 
1966 Ford custom tour-door automatic, good running condition, radial tires and 2 snow tires. Air conditioning. $500. 272-0859 after 6 pm. 
Left hand golf clubs. 3215 for details. 
ND Class ring. Man's, size 10112, ~ CHEAP. 234-6375. : 
Pioneer turntable PL-51 with AT-125 cartridge. Call 1487. 
One black and white 12-inch Motorola: television. Call Ed, 1487. · 

12 the observer 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
by Greg Corgan Toby Knight grabbed a crucial away, time ran out. Sports Editor rebound, Phelps called a timeout, Knight had 16 points and was and with 1: 14 left, the Irish went awarded the game's Most 
Missed shots, instead of made into their "four corners" offense. Valuable Player award by the shots, were the difference last Unlike the UCLA and South Notre Dame club of New York. night. Carolina games, the strategy Toby came off the bench to connect 
In Notre Dame's 68-67 ulcer­almost backfired this time. Ray on three field goals in the first half causing win over St. John's in New Martin tried to take a layup he and five of five in the second. York's Madison Square Garden shouldn't have and lost the ball. Third leading scorer for the Irish missed free throws by Adrian But "Dice" scrambled back and was Paterno with 14 points. Dantley and Bill Paterno almost picked off the rebound as St. John's The Redmen held true to season lost it for the Irish. Fortunately for again failed to make the needed form as they had four players in Digger Phelps and his squad, a hoop. Then with :52 left, Dantley double figures. Kevin Cleuss and missed jump shot with four traveled adding to the sky-high Glen Williams had 14 apiece while seconds to go by St. John's Frank number of ND turnovers. Utley and Smith each had twelve. Alagia did lose it ---for the Red­St. John's inbounded and for the The 17,000 fans at the Garden, men. second time couldn't buy a basket, capacity for a college game, were 
The last 1 : 29 of the ball game and Martin controlled the rebound treated to a real barnburner expired without any scoring by with 34 seconds left to play. throughout the evening. Neither t>ilher side. Ironically enough, Dantley was fouled by Mel Utley, team ever took a commanding lead I>antley had provided the margin but missed his gift shot. The and in the second half, it switched of victory a couple of seconds Redmen again failed to get a two­hands fifteen times. The Irish had earlier when re converted both pointer and when Paterno came trouble coping with St. John's zone Pnds of a one and one. Up until that down with the rebound he was defense, and when they went into a point St. John's had been ahead 67-fouled by Smith. 1-3-1 zone of their own midway 66 when Bill Smith, who scored With eight seconds remaining, through the second half, the Irish eight of his 12 points in the second Paterno blew his chance to ice the lost ground. half. dropped in his final layup game when he misfired his first However, down 60-52 with about with over two minutes to go in the free throw. St. John's coach Lou eight minutes to play, Notre Dame game. Carnessecca then called a time rattled off eight straight points and 
Dantley was then fouled by out. with three minutes left went ahead Smith and scored his two points. When play was resumed Alagia 66-64 on a jumper by Dwight Clay. I<'ollowing that, nothing worked took the ball from center court and The Irish were behind once more right. drove to the key and withonly four 67-66 when Dantley made his free 
After Adrian's two free throws seconds on the clock fired a throws. gave him a game-high 18 points for desperatio'l jumper. Once again, ND upped its record to 14-7 while the evening, the Redmen failed to and this time for the last time, it St. John's dropped to the same. retaliate at their end of the court. missed.As Toby Knight slapped it Saturday the Irish battle 12th 

WAA acting constructively 
by Bill Brink would have to do it, we'd try to give Scholastic, WSND and other themsomedirection." media. 
They don't burn . their ankle "Back in November and The assocation held it's first socks in front of the ACC or picket December, women's sports open meeting on February 4th to the· Rock. Their attitude isn't existed, but people didn't know try to acquaint people with it and defiant or rebellious. In faet-their about them," Lammers continued. encourage new menbers. The approach is so low-key that most "They had something , but we meeting was attended by manypeople around campus don't even knew they weren't going to stay at officials in the Physical Education know they exist. the same level. We knew they and Athletic Departments.
But the Women's Athletic were going to improve so we Athletic Director "Moose" Association at the University of thought we'd get together and give Krause, Basketball Coach Digger Notre Dame does exist, and soon it direction." Phelps, coach Kelly and others hopes to become an important, Miss Astrid Hotvedt has been were present along with what helpful force in University employed as a physical education Lammers called a "respectable Athletics. Their intent is not to teacher since September, and acts but less-than-hoped-for" turnout badger or hound the Athletic in an advisory capacity to the girls by students. The leaders of the Department until they are granted in the association. She explains organization are basically looking eoncessions, but rather to work that the idea of such an for support now and urge anyone constructively with officials in the organization is very common interested to inquire. No mem­department, providing input and among colleges. bership on a women's athletic ideas. so that together they may "It's not a new concept," Hot­team here at Notre Dame is strive to improve the Women's vedt explains "It exists at many necessary. athletic program here at the other colleges, and it's a very Both Lammers and Hotvedt school. natural thing to develop. We eomment that officials in the 
The women around campus first needed a type of organization to athletic department have been became interested in forming such workout some of the problems and very cooperative with the an organization back in late give proposals." organization and welcome their November and early December of The WAA is divided into three input. They are seeking input from last year. according to Jane sections under the heading of the women students so that they in Lammers. president of the WAA. Information, Development and turn may relay it to those officials. The captains of the women's sports Public Relations. The in­"We want people to be aware clubs and other girls interested in formational division is responsible that we exist and that we accept all improving the program felt the for communication among the input," said Hotvedt. "We need for a legitimate organization girls on campus about women's welcome it. Come tell us what you which could gain the respect of the athletics. The development think, how you would like to be Athletic Department and work in division attempts to work with the represented." conjunction with it. Athletic Department on a plan for "We want to let the Athletic 
"The way it is now, universities the future of the program. Public Department know how we feel," arr. ·;..nder a lot of pressure to Relations is in charge of providing said Lammers, "to go to them and upgrade women's athletic more visibility and exposure for the tell them what should be varsity, programs," said Lammers. "We organization through the campus for example, or what teams need thought as long as Notre Dame media; The Observer, The coaches or facilities." 
Right now, there are no varsity women's teams at Notre Dame, but both Lammers and Hotvedt feel that there are teams that should be soon. In fact, there are regulations passed by Congress which will soon make it mandatory for women to have comparable athletic status to the men. "We want to have an excellent reputation, along with the men's excellent athletic reputation here," Lammers said. 
Currently there are seven women's athletic clubs which compete with other schools. They are the golf club, the tennis club,the crew team, the basketball team, the field hockey team, the fencing team and the skiing team. Interhall competition among women is conducted in such areas as basketball, volleyball, swim­ming and football. The association hopes that they will be able to work with the Athletic Department to determine which clubs should be raised to varsity status or which 
(continued on page 9) 


MVP TOBY KNIGHT was a liHie more successful on the boards last night. In Notre Dame's 68-67 win Toby also had 16 points. ranked LaSalle in a regionally p.m. and not 2:00p.m. as originally televised game. The Explorers are scheduled. currently 19-3 and led by forwards The Irish are scheduled to arrive Joe Bryant (20.4 ppgl and Bill at the circle this afternoon at 12 Taylor 09.1 ppgl. Tipoff is at 3:00 p.m. 

OBSERVER 

SPORTS 

leers in Houghton to face Tech Huskies 
nesota." remarked Lefty Smith. "Tech has to be gunning these Iby Hob Kissel 
One place in the WCHA where it last few weeks to have a shot at the 
is not recommended a team try to league title, so we'll have our get back on the winning track is hands full in Houghton."
Houghton, Michigan home of the What about he Irish? Lefty'sMichigan Tech Huskies. Lefty charges took it in on the chin this Smith and his youthful squad past weekend, 7-3 and 7-0, at the hopefully are in Houghton's only hands of the Michigan State 
motel. waiting to take on the Spartans. The Irish know theyHuskies. 
have to win some games in order to First, Houghton's sole source 
keep their playoff spot a reality.
of diversion in the winter, besides 
"Despitelast weekend the team shoveling snow, is Tech hockey. 
still believes in Lefty, each other,Second, the John Maclnnes­and ourselves," offered freshman coached Huskies are currently KevinNugent. "We know what riding high in the WCHA with a 18­we're doing wrong out on the ice 7-1 record, good for 37 points and and we mean to change that second place in the league. 
against Tech." 
Tech presents an attack that has Most of the problem last traditionally given Notre Dame weekend was Notre Dame's 
hockey team fits--quick skaters. 
penchant for drawing penalties,Leading that skating attack are a 
led by WCHA penalty minute ace pair of veteran centers, Bob Brian Walsh. Walsh holds down D'Alvise and Mike Zuke. D'Alvise second place on the sin-bin list with 
has scored this season to possess 69 minutes, closely followed bysecond spot in the scoring race, linemates Alex Pirus and Clark with 21 goals and 27 assists. Hamilton, each with 66 minutes 
The Huskies wings are no and a third place tie. slowpokes either. Stu Younger and Offensively the Irish are the Bill Steele, wings on the D'A!vise same as before with the exception
line, have scored 33 goals and 31 of Terry Fairholm, out with a knee 
assists between them. Zuke's injury. Tim Byers will take linemates, Steve Jensen and Stu !<~airborn's right wing spot on the Younger have contributed their Pat Conroy line. David Howe will share, 17 goals 30 assists. skate at Byers' wing position on 

In goal Tech for most of the the Donny Fairborn line. season has been relying on junior Len Moher and John Peterson Jim Warden <3.3 goals against>. will split the series, as the case has Warden is a questionable starter been the whole season. Defen­hobbled by a leg injury suffered sively Notre Dame is hoping for two weeks ago against Michigan some consistent play somewhere State. Friday night's netminder' among Les Larson, Don Jackson, may be third-string goalie Tom Jack Brownschidle, Dan Byers, O'Connell, who filled in for second­Dick Howe, and Dave Bossy. stringer Bruce Horsch after The games will be broadcast Horsch was ejected for fighting back to South Bend, with WNDU's last Saturday against Minnesota­Pete Weber bringing all the action Duluth. live and in color. Friday's game 
"Tech really needed a sweep of gets under way at 8:00p.m. South Duluth <the teams split> to stay Bend tiime and 7:30 Saturday close with front runner Min-night. 

... 








