

Oa The Inside 
Fellman speech ••• page 3 SMC enrollment ..• page 4 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 86 Friday, February 21, 1975 
Rally proposed at 'bull session" 
by Mary Pat Tarpy Stafr Reporter 
A group of nearly 85 concerned Notre _Dame s~udents, including student government officers and prospective candidates for student government posts next year, met in a "bull session" sponsore~ by student government last night in the LaFortune ballroom and decided to stage a rally to make the desires and opinions of the student body more visible to the candidates. 
The decision to rally, whichwili be held on Wednesday, February 26 at 6:30 p.m. in the LaFortune ballroom, arose after a number of students attending the session coimplained that "the administration was walking all over the students" and that "students were being treated like ten-year olds." 
ln particular, the rally would provide a middle ground for discussion of various student complaints and also aid the t·andidates formulate their platforms for the approaching student government .election. 
Most of the students felt that a combined effort migt get i:l little more response.
Student Body President Pat McLaughlin laid out the ground rules for the rally.
"Wt•'ll have each of the candidates give a three minute platform presentation speech and then open it up so that students will be able to say what they want," McLaughlin stated. "There'll be the rally; the eandiates will be there; all concerned students should also be there or remain silent.'' he added. 
SBP PAT MCLAUGHLIN addresses around 85 Notre Dame students at the "bull session" held in
Apathy towards student government 
Lafortune last night (photo by John Phelan). 
Discussion at the "bull session" also centered the function and role "The second thing was the prices for basketball agrt::ement with the calendar that was decided upon. of the student government. One fear that a number of students ex­tickets. when the students wanted to boycott," he 
"Everyone feels that we were not mislead,"pressed was that the student body was becoming "apathetic" and l'ontinued. "Then there was the housing issue in 
McLaughlin said. "Any changes will have to come "alinenated" from student government. . Odober.'"McLauhglin added. through the Academic Council." 
Attendence at this "bull session" was given as an example of the "Just because we didn't put everything we did in Concerning the possibility of loss of accreditationstudent apathy. "You can tell there are a lot of concerned students on the paper doesn't mean we ignored it," McLaughlin if the Thanksgiving break were extendedthis campus when only 75 students out of 6000 show up," commented stated. 
McLaughlin cited the calendar issue as the turning 
ont• participant after surveying the crowd. , point which brought this situation to a head. 
··If this is any indication how students on campus feel, then were Calt>ndai· discusst>d "We had over 30 calls from students the other day left out in the cold," McLaughlin added. 
-about the calendar, which gives a good indication MeLauhglin continued on to explain the role of student rgovern-Another major issue brought up during the course that someone is upset," )\...__Laughlin said. 
ment. and how its involves itself with student problem_s. . . of the eveningwas the 1975-76 calendar. McLaughlin 
In summing up the events of the evening''One of the first issues to come up was the alcohol directive With the explained that after conferring with University McLaughlin observed, "I feel that we got$50 fine for \'iolations. It took 48 hours to get rid of the directive," Provost f<'r. James T. Burtchaell and members of somPthing done tonight. The affects remain to lM· 
1\h-Lauhglin noted. the Academic Council, the concensus was in seen in the future." 

At other Catholic universities 
Coeducational living policies compared 
by Tony Proscio 
Staff Reporter 
Should Grace Hall become an ex­periment in coeducational living-and there is still no evidence that it will-Notre Dame will join a number of other Catholic universities already offering similar options. 
One proposal, submitted Wednesday by Grace Rector Fr. Thomas McNally, calls for residents of both sexes to be housed on four of the tower's floors. Reaction has been strong on both sides. 
But whatever difficulties such an ex­periment would raise, it would certainly not be un-Catholic. 
Gergetown University, a large Catholic campus run by the Jesuit order, has of­fered co-educational facilities for six years. Only two single-sex dormitories remain. 
"Sentiment is pretty strongly in favor of it," Dean of Students Valerie Yokie ex­plained. "Of course, some people raised their eyebrows at first, but it's hard to find any opposition any more." 
Georgetown's co-ed facilities began when shortage of housing space for women became critical, she explained, but now students must specifically opt for all-male or all-female living. 
"We had a men's hall that had become a real problem with vandalism and loud parties," she continued. "When we in­troduced two floors of women, it seemed to simmer the building down qute a bit. The people are more respectful, more humane. 
Of course, it's hard to say that it was all 
because of the women." 
The Georgetown system is similar to 
McNally's proposal in that sections of 
rooms on each floor are reserved for 
women, and bath facilities are separate. 
At CSC-owned Stonehill College just outside of Boston, however, residents of one co-ed hall share bathrooms and are evenly disperesed throughout the building. 
Fr. Bill Braun. director of the co­educa,tional Holy Cross Center and before in one of the halls," he explained, "but when the survery came out, a lot of students wouldn't even tum it in. There just wasn't any support." 

Fr. James Kelly, Notre Dame sociology professor and former professor at Par­assistant dean of students, says the center is intended as a "community experience." 
"The overall experience has been tremendously positive," Braun com­mented. "We went through a period of adolescent behavior, a kind of tension, but gradually it became very relaxed, very normal." 
The center, formerly a seminary, was a deliberate experiment in co-educational living. 
"We have eight adults, including three priests and four women, living at the center. We feel it's our job to open up a new part of education. There's a real community feeling-the people do the laundry and dishes together, eat together and so on." 
Seven college-run townhouses which do not include adult supervision are also coeducational · Braun noted that promiscuity, loud parties and what he calls "adolescent vulgarity" appear to be less common than in all-male dormitories. 
"Role-playing is greater in an all-male situation," he explained. "We've found that girls knock that down very quickly." 
But not all Catholic colleges have found the idea equally appealing. King's College in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., has girls on the top three floors of one residence hall and connecting stairwells are kept locked. 
Although Housing Co-ordinator, Fr. Paul Farber, says King's administrators are "pleased" with the arrangement, there is no plan to mingle the sexes within floors, and parietal hours are enforced. 
Another CSC campus, the University of Portland, defeated a co-ed housing proposal on the basis of negative student response in a university poll. 
Ecott Pell, a Portland graduate, said the issue "died ont." 
"There had been a sit-in for it the year before in one of the halls," he explained, ''but when the survey came out, a lot of students wouldn't even turn it in. There just wasn't any support." 
Fr. James Kelly, Notre Dame sociology professor and former professor at Por­tland, says the benefits of a co-ed situation are "minimal." 
"Spacial arrangements are not the most significant factor in acheiving better relationships between boys and girls," he commented. "The dorm becomes public space. It tends to become more like an apartment house than a community arrangement." 
The issue, Kelly suggested, has become a fad on most campuses and is con­sequently not getting the consideration it deserves. 
"What kind of adjustment do you want between boys and girls?" he asked. "Weighted against the loss of. privacy that results, you don't get much in return." 
"The family is the more important variable in determining how an individual will be able to realte to the opposite sex. You're not going to improve things simply by putting men and women in the same building." 


2 ~ 
the observer 


warld briefs 
HJ<:SPEHllS, Colo. <UPil -Violet Smith, 69, says she'll use her gun to thwart any "damn federal bureaucrats" who try to make her pay extra tax on the ore she digs out of her tiny coal mine in the , Hocky 1\lountains. 
"l'vp got guns and my neighbors have got guns, and if that's what it lakl•s to keep them off my land, that's the way it'll be" she said. ··A body's got to take a stand somewhere." 
\\'ASill N<iTON !llPil -Negotiatrs for Trans World Airlines and tlw lnl<'rnational Association of Machinists reached tentative agreenwnt on a new work contract Thursday evening, averting a possilllP midnight strike. 
llETHOIT (lTJ>I) -General Motors Corp. Thursday announced rww production plans that will mean a return to work for 2,700 of its Jdlt·dworkt•rs. 
lli•:TIWIT <UPJ) -The Ford Motor Co. reported Thursday that 1!l74 profits fell (iO per cent from record 1973 earnings to $361 111 dliona nd were the lowest for any nonstrike year since 1958. 
\\ ASHINGTON <UPil -CIA Director William Colby testified Thursday the "almost hysterical excitement" about alleged donwstic spying by his agency has made American undercover agt•nts abroad fear for their lives. 
WASHINGTON <UPI> -The United States is in the deepest n·cession of the post-World War II era on the _basis of revised Gross l\ational Product data, the Commerce Department reported Thursday. 
WASHINGTON <UPI>-Liberals on the House Ways and Means ( 'omm ittee said Thursday they would carry their fight to end the oil depletion allowance to a caucus of all House Democrats. 

an campus taday 
friday, feb. 21 
12:15 pm--lecture, "values, ministry, and higher education" by e. whitehead, lib. faculty lounge. 3:30pm--philosophy lecture, "moral concepts, dramatic narratives, & historical understanding" by a. macintyre, lib. faculty lounge. s pm--vespers, log chapel. S pm--mass 9 dinner, bulla shed. 7-12 pm--wacky winter weekend events, smc. 
7:30 pm--hockey, nd vs minnesota-duluth, ace. 8 pm--world travel series, "alaskan journey" by n. smith, o'laughlin aud. 9 pm--waltzing party, $1.50, Iafortune ballroom. 9 pm-1 am--smc coffeehouse, 9-c. Iibert, 10-j. fitzpatrick & m. arm­strong, 11 & 12-steinman, hay, caulfield, mcpartlin. 
saturday, feb. 22 
12 noon-S pm--wacky winter weekend events, nd. 
2 pm--swim meet, illinois st. u. vs nd, rock. 
2 pm--women's basketball rematch, smc vs nd, ace pit. 
6:30 pm--film, "bobby", lib. aud. 
7:30 pm--hockey, nd vs minnesota-duluth, ace. 8 pm--drama, "medea", ga $2, faculty & students $1.50, o'laughlin aud. 
sunday, feb. 23 
11:30 am--interview, dave anderson with fr. frank gartland, wndu­tv. 
2:30 pm--drama, "medea", o'laughlin aud. 
4:30 pm--evensong vespers, lady chapel. 7-10 pm--tryouts, for "a poor man's vaudeville", little theatre, moreau, smc. 8, 10 pm--film, "the heart Is a lonely hunter", $1, eng. aud. 8:15pm--concert, becky stauffer & william cerny.. lib. aud. 


Response frozn Wacky raffle lo'W 
by Martha Fanning The fun moves to Notre Dame on
tickets were printed in order to 
Staff Reporter Saturday with several events
give students a wider range of 
scheduled, including: Vice on Ice,
choices," Romano explaiend. "We
Student response to the 1975 the Hockey Hookers vs the In­
never anticipated this much of a
Wacky Winter Weekend <WWW> terhall Iceman of Flanner, a Hans
problem selling the tickets," she
Raffle has not been very great, Brinker skating race, a Brrr-lap
added_
according to Patty Romano, sack race and a Snow Sculpture
The objective of the WWW is to
chairman of the raffle. contest with the theme "What
provide a fun, inexpensive
"So far we've only sold 150 Notre Dame Means to Me."
weekend.
tickets out of 1500 we had hoped to Students are asked to support the 
"We would have liked to have
sell. If we don't sell at least 300 event by buying a raffle ticket.
started a tradition like Mardi Gras
tickets. the raffle will have to be The tickets are one dollar and can
and An-Tostal, but if it fails, I
called off and the money refun­be purchased at the NO and SMC
doubt that it will be tried again
ded," Romano stated. Dining Halls at dinner, Student
next year," Romano observed.
The proceeds from the raffle are Union Ticket Office, at the dance
The festivities will start tonight
earmarked towards defraying the Friday night or from any one of the 
with a Happy Hour at Kubiak's,
expenses of the weekend which is people listed on the WWW
followed by a dance held at St.
eo-sponsored by the Notre Dame program.Chances will be available 
Mary's and ending with the raffle
and St. Mary's Social Com­until the drawing at midnight,
drawing at midnight.
missions. Any money left over Friday. 
SUNDAY MASSES 
MAIN CHURCH 

5:15 p.m. Sat.  Fr. Bob Griffin, C.S.C.  
9:30 a.m. Sun.  Fr. Frank Gartland, C.S.C.  
10:45 a.m.  Sun.  Fr. Leonard Banas, C.S.C.  
12:15 p.m. Sun.  Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C.  


OR BY MAIL ORDER TO Wings Stadium, 3600 Von Rick Dr, Kclcmcmo, Ml 49002. MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO WINGS STADIUM PLEASE ENCLOSE SELF-ADDRESSED 
ENVELOPE 

International Harvester has unmatched opportunities for peop!e majoring in: 
Accounting Agricultural Engineering Business Administration Business Management Civil Engineering Computer Science Economics Electrical Engineering Engineering Technology Finance Industrial Engineering Marketing Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Metallurgy Metallurgical Engineering 
March 5 is your chance to take a look at them. 
Make an appointment at the Placement Office to see the International Harvester College Relations Repres.entative. He'll be here to tell you what kind of people we~re looking for, how we work and more about the opportunities we have to offer. In the meantime, stop by ~~~ the Placement Office and pick up a copy of our new recruitment brochure. IIIITEIUIATIOIIIALHARVESTEII 
after the expenses are paid will be used for future activities planned this semester. 
"If the raffle fails, it will not only affect this weekend but also any other activities held for the remainder of the semester," commented Romano. 
The winner of the raffle will be 
able to chose from one of four; trip 
to Daytona for one plus a Disney 
world side trip; a trip to Daytona 
for two; a night in Chicago for two; 
or, for seniors only an option for 
the senior ball. 
"The Chicago trip senior ball 
options were added after the 
The Observer is publiShed deity during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from 'The Observer ilox' Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
FOR THE BEST 
L SAT 
PRE PARAliON CLASSES NOW FORMING TO BE HELD IN 
LAYFAYETTE, INDIANA 
ON MAR. 16, 22, APR. 6. 13 LIMITED ENROLLMENT FOR INFORMATION WRITE OR 
CALL 312-782 · 2185 
L.SAL PREPARATORY SEMINAR 7 SOUTH DEARBORN, CHICAGO. ll. 60603 
Friday, February 21, 1975 
the observer 
3 




Fellman praises Supreme Court 
by Kathy Mills Staff Reporter 
"On the whole, I think that the Supreme Court has served us well in keeping alive the separation of powers," stated David Fellman , in last night's concluding session of "Separation of Powers in the Wake of Watergate." 
of Wisconsin, continued, 4 'There is no legal slot machine which solves Constitutional problems. The best we can hope for is to look for points of equilibrium and agreement between competing interests and clashing ideas. In doing this, the Supreme Court has provided an indespensible func­tion." 

SPEAKING IN the Library Auditorium, David Fellman stated that the Supreme Court had worked well in keeping alive the separation of powers 
Fellman stressed the importance of the Court as the interpretive branch of the federal government. He remarked that the Court is often called on to define executive, legislative, and judicial powers: 
The professor also noted that one of the main functions of the Supreme Court is a judication, the method of settling controversies. However, he pointed out that not all adjudications takes place in the courts. In the United States, many controversies are settled at the polls, with legislation, and through negotiations and contracts. 
Fellman declared, "The Supreme Court has jurisdiction over many cases regarding the constitutionality of acts of Congress and the President, as well as its own acts. Yet it is im­proper for the Court to give ad­visory judgments; it can only give declaratory judgments." 
In emphasizing the Supreme Court's power over the President, Fellman cited the example of its decision on whether or not there is such a thing as executive privilege. 
He related that the court established its legal existence, and based it on the Constitution as a "qualified privilege, fundamental to the operation of government and rooted in the separation of powers."
liP added that the court may review the authority of any 
!'residential power, and that the
!'resident's subordinates are also subject to judicial review. The 
Supn•mt> Court has, in its history, reviewedsuchPresidentialactsas the vetopower.therighttosigna
bill after the adjournment of Congress, and the power to deport Pnt>my aliens in wartime. 
1 SHOWMEN
key faculty positions outlined i I
AN o 
Faculty Senate referendum out; 
"Every American judge has the authority to refuse to enforce a law on the basis of un­constitutionality," Fellman maintained. He noted that the Supreme Court has declared a little over 100 federal statutes and 800 local and state laws uncon­stitutional. 
"Some of these cases have had a tremendous impact," he observed, listing the Dred Scott Case, the Civil Rights Cases of 1883, and the two Child Labor Cases. 
Yet Fellman contended that judicial review on federal statutes "should not be given exaggerated stature." He said that the number of cases declared unconstitutional is small compared with the number of statutes which have been passed by Congress. He also mentioned that the Court imposes restrictions on itself in reference to judicial review, including assuming initially that a statute is valid and refusing to consider most cases. 
"The Supreme Court has made it abundantly clear that separation of powers requires Congress to legislate and forbids the President from making the law. It also limits the judiciary to the function of adjudication. Yet one may question if the Supreme Court has not overstepped the boundary line to make laws," asserted Fellman. He said that the Supreme Court decision on capital punishment, among others, read like a statute. ,_
Fellman also insisted that to "subject federal and state laws to uncontrollable judicial review 
(continued on page 8) 

I .Mecha · 
General Meeting & Reception for all prospective bi-lingual tutors 123 Warren 
8 pm Friday Feb 21 
corner of 31 & Toll Rd. 
-

......------------------------, 
I THIS SUNDAY NIGHT {FEB 23) lSI
I • I
IN D & S.M.C. NIGHT AT SHULA'S II 
t · ·COVER CHARGE WITH THISA..:!
JN0 LA
1 I 1 N 0 W A p p E A R 1N G I
i i
ROYAL AMERICAN 
by George Eckes Starr Reporter 
The Faculty Senate is sending out a referendum today on University Governance to all teaching, research, special professional and library faculty. The purpose of the referendum is to establish faculty positions on key issues and to indicate what courses of action are to be pursued. 
The Senate feels a formal position on certain areas of con­cern would be beneficial in regards to letting the administration be informed of where the faculty stands on specific administration policy. As a result, it has spent the past six months compiling reports on various aspects of governance at Notre Dame. 
1\Jodirying proposals 
It is also the intention of the 
Senate to use its right of agenda in 
the Academic Council to bring 
before that legislative body 
proposals, supported by the faculty 
at large. to modify the adademic 
regulations of the University. 
Prof. James T. C~shing, 
chairman of the Faculty Senate 
was pleased with the idea of the 
referendum. 
"Prior to pursuing a stand before the administration or anybody, it's good policy to know you have a certified position " he said. "Last year we conducted a poll on salary and retirement benefits with excellent feedback but the referendum is far mor~ extensive in its approach " Cushing noted.-' 
( 'unqwnsation intTt•ase 
High on the list of priorities is compensation increases of no less than $1400, with a minimum of · $1200 being in salary and the remainder in fringe benefits, retroactive to the beginning of the 1974-75 contract year. 
Another point being stressed is the adequacy of the $600 cost-of­living supplement in the face of the inflation-pledged economy. 
The Senate also wants faculty imput on the following issues: 
1l a_ University budget priorities committee, requesting the administration to make available to the faculty each year a distribution of academic-year salaries by quartiles thigh, median, and low quartile) for each rank <Professor, Associate Professor, Assistant Professor,_ Instructor) for each of the four Colleges in the University, as well as the corresponding salary in­creases for the coming academic vear. · 2) a suggestion that each member of the teaching and research faculty be requested to 
file with his department chairman 
a "Faculty Service Report". 
3) a Senate·proposal to conduct a faculty evaluation of those academic officers of the Univer­sity whose jurisdiction serves the entire academic community. 
4l similar evaluations for ap­propriate college or departmental faculties for deans and chairmen. 
5) urging departmental Com­mittees on Appointments and Promotions to follow the present Academic Manual meticulously in making their recommendations. 
6lconsiderations of religious affiliation in regards to em­ployment and promotion. 
7) beginning collective bargaining at Notre Dame. 
The deadline for receipt of all faculty ballots is Wednesday, February 26. The Senate is hoping 
. for a large return to show the body's unanimity. After the ballots are tabulated, the results of the referendum will be published in the Notre Dame Report. 

LISTEN 
I 

I I I I I I 
NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS 
I 

on US. 31 btt.een Niles. So. Bend·Free Parking.68~350 
I I..-...sEllliTAIIIEIY lUI I P.l. nll 2l.l. I 
I 



·-------------------------~ 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION PROUDL) PRESENTS 
IN CONCERT 
WEDNESDAY MARCH 12 8:00P.M. 
NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC & ___<;:ONVOCATION CENTER 
TIC"KFT Pltlt ES: 1iti.Uil, $:1.00, & $4.00 

TICKET SALES BEGIN MONDAY AT 11 :30 AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, & 9:00 AT THE A.C.C. ­

St. Mary's enrollment increasing 
"We are developing new areas of New York City area," added recruitment in Florida, Texas, Mary Anne Madden, admissionsby Pattie Cooney 
Conneticut and especially in the counselor.
Contributing Editor 

With the possibility of decreasing enrollments facing private educational institutions in the mid-1970's, St. Mary's College has continued to increase in its enrollmt>nt. 
According to the January issue of St. Mat·y's Report, the National Center of Educational Statistics indicated that "the total Fall 1974 l'nrollment in private colleges increased nationwide by only three percent over last year, with more than fifty percent of those colleges t•xperiencing an enrollment decrease, or at best, one un­changed from the previous year." 
The total 1974-75 enrollment figure at St. Mary's was 1,694-the largest ih the college's history. This figure represents a 9.4 per­cent increase over the previous \ear. · The class of 1978 contributed 534 to the total enrollment figure, with students representing 40 states and 8 foreign countries. 
The Admissions Office received over 1,000 applications for the 1974­1975 academic year. Thus far, 800 applications have been received for next year. 
"Next year we will only be taking 450 freshmen since we now are at capacity enrollment," Sr. Anna Mae Golden, director of admissions explained. 
"Last year we had to convert study lounges and other areas into resident quarters," Golden con­tinued. "We expected more cancellations than we received and consequently we're overcrowded," she added. 
Admission to St. Mary's is based on high school transcripts, recommendations and S.A.T. test scores. "The average verbal scores ranged from 450 to 500 and the math from 500 to 550," noted Golden. 
Thirty percent of the present freshman class ranked in the top tenth of their high school graduating class, and fifty percent were in the top fifth. Over fifty percent of the freshmen had combined S.A.T. scores of 1,000 or higher. 
"In our estimation, high school grades and rank are more of a determining factor than the SAT scores, since day to day work is more indicative of the per­formance the student can be ex­pected to produce," explained Golden. "Extracurricular ac­tivities are an additional asset for prospective students but they don't have the same importance as grades and test scores. We do like to see well-rounded students, though," slie commented. "In­terviews are recommended but not 
'Our academic excellence is the reason they cite most often for coming here.' 
required unless we have some questions," Golden further ad­ded. 
According to Golden, there are several reasons why someone would want to attend St. Mary's. 
"Our academic excellence is the reason they cite most often for coming here. Some also have friends here who like it. Our being a women's college is a secondary factor," she said. 
"The largest number of intents for next fall center around education, nursing and business. Many have a career orientation and may go · into English or 
Legal counsellors for several of the nation's top entertainers and athletes will participate in a forum planned by the Notre Dame I .aw School March 6-8. Law Faculty and students from more than 60 American schools have already confirmed plans to attend the ('Onh·n•m·p which will discuss topics such as con­tracting,copyrights, collective bargaining and estate and tax planning. 
The forum to be held at the Center for Continuing Education, will open with an address by <'harles A Scoot of Gang, Tyre and Brown, a Los Angeles firm representing Bob Hope and other major entertainers. At 2:30 p.m., IIerman I<'inkelstein, special counsel to the American' Society of Composers and Producers will discuss copyrights and royalties. 
Other speakers include James E. Finks, executive vice-president and general manager of the Chicago Hears; John Mackey, forml'r football great, now a player's agent: and Associate lkan David T. Link of Notre Dame who will discuss taxation in sports. Sports columnist Bill Gleason of lht1 Chicago Sun-Times will speak at the dinner Friday night on "The Hole of the Fan in Sports." 
Special attention will con­centrate on the legal aspects of forming new leagues, shifting franchises, problems facing stars pl'rforming in different countries, and taxation interpretations in the multi-million dollar fields of sports and entertainment. 
Hegistration for the sessions are 
now~~'m:!i~(!cffh'l' ~·~enter 
Observer 
Legal conference planned on sports, entertainment 
for Continuing Education. Special 
arrangements will permit law school faculty to attend the event at a reduced rate and all law students to enter free of charge. All other participants will be subject to a $125 fee to cover conference costs. 

Humanistic Studies with a mind to Law School later," she further added. "The Business Ad­ministration department now is the fastest growing discipline in the college," Golden stated. 
"Illinois is the state where the largest number of our students come from, followed by Indiana and Ohio," said Joan Organ, ad­missions counselor. "We also have a lot of foreign students from Bolivia, Guam, the Canal Zone, Central America, Liberia and Nicaragua," she continued. 
' 


WARM ATMOSPHERE GOOD PEOPLE QUIET LITURGY SUFFICIENT SUPPER TONIGHT 
& 

EVERY FRIDAY 5 PM BULLA SHED 




BOOG.IE RECORDS 
ANNOUNCES ITS NEW LOCATION 
WITH A YELLOW DOT 
I


WEEKEND SALE 
• 

A PRIME OPPORTUNITY TO EXPAND YOUR RECORD COLLECTION 
50¢ OFF ON ANY L.P. WITH A YELLOW DOT • 
INCLUDING ALL: 
*LED ZEPPELIN 
*JOE WALSH 
* DOOBIE BROTHERS *HARRY CHAPIN *GREGG ALLMAN *JAMES GANG VARIOUS TITLES IN: 
*JAZZ *BLUES *COUNTRY & WESTERN *EASY LISTENING *SOUL 
AND MANY MORE 
* LIMITED QUANTITY AVAILABLE BOOGIE RECORDS 919-B COLLEGE SQUARE· McKINLEY HIGHWAY 
ACROSS FROM TOWN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER MISHAWAKA, INDIANA ·255-0266 
THE HEART IS A LONELY HUNTER 

LITERRR DAPTRTIONS ESTIVAL Sunday Night 7:30, 10 pm 
Engineering Auditorium 
one dollar admission 

Starring Alan Arkin Based on the Corson McCullers' 
Novel. 


Friday, February 21, 1975 
the observer 5 

Hesburgh dinner 
* SMC COFFEEHOUSE*
Junior parents weekend outlined 
TONIGHT ! 
by Terry Keelan StaffReporter 
Next weekend, Feb. 28 to March 2, the University and the Junior Class will co-sponsor the Junior Parents weekend. An annual event, the weekend is designed to allow a first-hand experience of the community at Notre Dame other than that of the hectic first semester football weekends. The agenda will include basketball and hockey games, a special President's Dinner at which Father Hesburgh and Junior class president Augie Grace will speak, and a closing breakfast Sunday morning, March 2. 
When the parents arrive on Friday, they will check into one of 
Intelsat satellite loses control: authorities destroy it oversea 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. of Atlas Centaur, said the <UPI) -An Atlas Centaur malfunctions on the craft began rocket carrying the seventh two minutes and 20 seconds 
Intelsat IV communications after the 6:35 p.m. liftoff. satellite into orbit hurtled out of "It appears everything was control moments after launch normal up to the booster Thursday night and space cutoff," Slone said. Then, he agency authorities destroyed said, "several things went the $30 million mission in a ball wrong" with the rocket which of fire over the Atlantic Ocean. caused it to tumble wildly out 
Henry Slone, project manager of control. 
Tickets to go on sale for Joe Walsh concert 
Tickets for the March 12 ap­with Student Union and Bamboo pearance of rock guitarist and Productions, explained that the vocalist Joe Walsh at the A.C.C. regular full allottment of tickets will go on sale this Monday, will goon sale at the Student Union February 24 at 11:30 a.m. at the ticket office at 11:30 a.m. Monday. Student Union ticket Office and 
"All mail orders were filled with !l:OO a.m. at the A.C.C. 
tickets from sections C & D of the Pete Kernan, who is coor­A.C.C. allocation," Kernan stated, 
dinating the concert preparations "so that sections A& B on the main floor will be available at Student Union beginning with Row 1 on Monday morning. 
Walsh will be ]oined on stage by former Beach Boy Ricky Fataar on drums, David Mason on keyboards, and Brian Garofolo on bass. 
Walsh, a former member of the James Gang, has released two solo albums, "The Smoker You Drink­The Player You Get," and "So What?" on the ABC-Dunhilllabel. This week's edition of Rolling Stont" has a biographical interview of Joe Walsh in the features sec­tion. 
Tickets for the concert are $6.00, $5.00 and $4.00. 

Earn our two-year scholarship. 
And get ahead start in today•s most exciting energy field. 
A scholarship for your junior and ·sics, or two semesters of calculus. senior years, worth up to $10,000. It And have a 8 minus average or better. could be yours, if you qualify for the Then as a senior, depending on Naval ROTC Nuclear Propulsion . your continued performance, you will 
Candidate Program. 

Tuition, books and educational materials are all included. Along with $100 a month for living expenses. And, of course, the opportunity to build a rewarding career in the fast growing field of nuclear energy. A field which Navy technology has dom­inated from the beginning. Where the Navy now operates a majority of this country's reactors and has trained many of its civilian operators.· 
To qualify for the scholarship, you must have completed either one semester each of calculus and phy-
Contact the Officer Program Officer Naval Bldg. 41, NAS Glenview, IL 60026 (312) 657-2170 If out of town, call collect 
five hotels in town where room reservations have been made for them by the Parents Weekend Committee. At 7:30 parents may attend the Notre Dame vs. Wisconsin hockey game for a reduced ticket price of $3.50 per ticket. After the game there will be a cocktail party in the ACC Monogram Room. 
Saturday morning at 10:00 collegiate workshops will be in session. At these workshops, parents can become familiar with their son or daughters' program of studies and faculty instructors. The Notre Dame Alumni Association will also show the movie Notre Dame in Review starting at 12:30 p.m. and con­tinuing through Saturday af­
be interviewed for selection and ad­vanced graduate-level training as an officer in the Navy's Nuclear Program. Training valued at over $20,000. 
Don't miss out on an opportunity 
for a valuable ~­~cholarship. ~nd -. .·· mvaluable tram-~ ··• ·=• 
ing in the energy • fl ...., 
field of the future. Con­tact your local Officer Programs Officer at: 
ternoon in the Library Auditorium. 
At· 2:00 p.m. the N.D.-Dayton Basketball game, agairi $3.50 per ti~ket, <or $10 for three tickets, as With the hockey game). Following is the Junior Class Mass in Sacred Heart Church at 5:00 p.m. A special liturgy, to be read by Father Hesburgh, has been written by members of the Junior class. University Chaplain Rev. Robert 
Griffin,  CSC,  will  deliver  the  
homily.  
The  Presidential  Dinner  will  

begin at 7:45 p.m. in the North Dining Hall. A roast beef dinner including appetizer, dessert and wine which costs $8.75 a ticket has been planned . Sunday morning the weekend will close with a breakfast in the North Dining Hall. 

Slone said when it became apparent the tumbling could not be corrected and the mission was lost, the Air Force range safety officer destroyed the rocket for safety reasons. He said every rocket contains destruction charges which can be triggered in the event it goes out of control. 
The remains of the rocket and the communications satel­lite tumbled into the Atlantic after the explosion. Cape officials said the debris fell into the ocean about 500 miles downrange from the cape at a point north and east of the Bahamas. 
They did not immediately explain how far north and east of the Bahamas the wreckage fell. 
Residents of the Palm Beach 
and Miami coastal area report­
ed seeinga "ball of fire" in the 
sky over the ocean. 

Space agency officials blamed a failure in the rocket's second stage for the mission's failure and engineers and technicians were inspecting tape-recorded signals from both vehicles to determine exactly what happened. 
However·, Slone said it may take several weeks before a decision is reached on the exact cause of the failure of the mission. Unlike most Intelsat launches, this one was unin­sured. 
Space agency spokesman 
Chuck Hollinshead said machi­
nists of the striking McDonnell 
Douglas Corp. had "nothing 
whatsoever" to do with the 
launch. General Dynamics, he 
said, is the contractor for the 
Atlas Centaur. 
~11!!J"-., , .....~•..~Jl!» r,..;?'·~­
Build your future 
on aproud tradition. Recruiting 


Cathy Libert Steinman, Hay & McPartlin, Caulfield 
Loose Ends 
9:30-1:00
under the 
music n'
dining hall 
munchies 

Marantz -Sony Harmon/Kardon-Pioneer -Crown at 
THE STEREO SCENE 
Wholesale Prices on HiFi Equipment & Accessories Fast Dependable Service! ! 
(t'X('t•pt fait' tJ'adt' itemsl 
287-1400 ASK ABOUT MAXELL 
:::\021\IISIIA. AVE.,'~ MILE PAST RIVER PARK THEATER 
lnPIRG Directors Election 
March 3 7 Director$hips Available 
Interested Candidates Must Meet Monday, Feb. 24-4 or 6:30PM 
lmPIRG Office LaFortune 

the observer Friday, February 21, 1975 
left in the lurch seriausly, falks 




Grads The Recession 
hur:Jh harman 
The front page of last Monday's Observer featured a report on the proposed grad student complex and is, unfortunately, in­dicative of the Administration's concern ( or lack thereof) for grad students. 
As usual the Administration is plodding blindly ahead with their own plans for helping out <or not helping out) the grads and of t•ourse using no grad student input. To my knowledge, not one student has been consulted with regard to any graduate housing plans or decisions, although there is no doubt that it is a matter of utmost concern to all the grads. 
The statement which is most representative of the Ad­ministration's self-feeding self-righteousness is Fr. Wilson's pronouncement the HE would prefer an apartment complex, for graduate students as opposed to a residence hall. He is backed up in this preference by Prof. Gordon, head of Advanced Studies, who !'tatt•s that HE considers dorms too "limiting" and prefers instead tht• apartment complex. In an attempt to show support for graduatP non-dorm preference he mentions that only 300 of 1800 grad students currently live on campus. However, he naturally fails to mention the reason for this low <?) number: there is no room for more. The fact is that each year there are more ap­plil'ations for grad housing than there is room. It would seem that on ('am pus housing for grads is very much in favor everywhere but m the Administration, and, unfortunately, that's where it counts. 
\\'hat is needed in this instance instead of one-sided decisions on the part of a paternalisttic Administration is an open dialogue lwtwPt'n the Golden Dome and the grad students, and not just in regard to the housing situation although there is no doubt that that is the current sore 'point: 
In a larger sense. the entire University attitude toward grad students is on the firing line. As stated too many times before, grad students are third rate students here at duLac. Needs of the grads are considered second, if at all, whenever a decision is made and ~·pt grads are a very important part of the University community. Tht•y work as teaching assistants, as research assistants, and as ehPap labor for the dining halls and the security force. Grad studPnts make this school more than the football capital of the 1\lidwt•st and. more importantly, they make the University of Notre llaml' more than a college. 
Toward the end of better grad student recognition and inclusion within the University decision making process the post-Ann-Darin­Palmer (;raduate Student Union is testing its wings with a petition r directed to ''the Board of Trustees of the University of Notre Dame, the Administration, and the University at Large." Basically ther petition I l demands a reversal of the Lewis Hall decision and 2) insists on representation on the committees which deal with the 
l 
f future housing needs of the University." The petition is currently being drculated through the ranks of the graduate students and has now hopefully been posted at the offices of each department and at t•ach of the graduate dormitories. 
It is fervently hoped that the petition will cause the University to include the grads in the decision making, although some have their doubts. and of course suggestions more radical than a petition have been made. One such suggestion concerning the attempt to reverse the Lt•wis Hall decision is to picket the Administration Bldg. This picketing would be done by graduate students and, so the suggestion runs, by graduate nuns in garb protesting being forced from their designated convent. The act of grad students and nuns protesting in front of the Golden Dome of the University of Notre l>aml' would most likely draw off-eampus media coverage of the t•vent. and perhaps not just by the South Bend media. Chicago newspapers and TV stations might feel that the event would prove of 1\1 idwt•st. if not national, interest. 
Another radical suggestion calls for the writing of letters by the (iraduate Student Union to college placement bureaus throughout the eountry. These letters would state the nature of graduate student conditions at the University of Notre Dame and would let everyone considering graduate work here know exactly what to expect tor not to expect> once they enrolled. A drop in grad students applications, not to mention a tarnishing of Notre Dame's reputation. would no doubt cause some action-reaction from the Administration. 
Tht• point of these types of recommendations is that it is usually fruitless and frustrating to fight the University on its home grounds ti.e. campus) and can be likened to beating your head on the radiator to call for more heat. The University is most subject to pressun• from its pocketbook and its prestige. A good example is tht• actions of the Grad Student Union in its first year of existence. During that year, they earned the everlasting enmity of the Ad­ministration by handing out leaflets to alumni during home football games. These leaflets protested the low Teaching Assistant salaries then being paid <which is not to imply that the current salaries are high l. Although the Administration was highly displeased with the GSU action, T.A. salaries were raised. 
Of course it ·s hardly the desire of any grad student to take on the Administration in open warfare. Hopefully the petition will make the University realize that grads make up more than 20 per cent of all students Pnrolled here, one-fifth of the students that are third dass citizens. It is the desire of these students to work with the Administration in making the decisions which affect them. It does not st•t•m like too much to ask. 
DOONESBURY 
GO~NOR, ~ 
II/!/Itt THINK WElL, IT'S )fXI'Vt PONEA eeeN NO PICNIC, 


art buchwald 
WASHINGTON-The recession hit so fast Gladstone's face dropped. He im­that nobody knows exactly how it happened. mediately called his travel agent, Sand­One day we were the land of milk and honey storm. "You know that trip you had and the next day we were the land of sour scheduled for me to the Virgin Islands?" cream and food stamps. "Right, the tickets are all written up." 
This is one explanation. "Cancel it. I can't go. Bedcheck just sent 
Hofberger, the Chevy salesman in back the color TV set because Hofberger Tomcat, Va., a suburb of Washington, called didn't sell a car to Littleton because they're up Littleton, of Littleton Menswear & going to get a divorce and she wants all his Haberdashery. and said, "Good news, the money." '75 Impalas have just come in and I've put Sandstorm tore up the airline tickets and one aside for you and your wife." went over to see his banker, Gripsholm. "I 
Littleton said, "I can't Hofberger. My can't pay back the loan this month because 
wife and I are getting a divorce." Gladstone isn't going to the Virgin Islands." 
Hofberger said, ·~That's too bad. Then Gripsholm was furious. When take the car for yourself. I'll give you $100 Rudemaker came in to borrow money for a extra on a trade-in because of the divorce." new kitchen he needed for his restaurant, 
"I'm sorry," Littleton said, "but I can't Gripsholm turned him down cold. "How can afford a new car this year. After I settle I loan you money when Sandstorm hasn't with my wife, I'll be lucky to buy a bicycle." repaid the money he borrowed?" 
Hofberger hung up. His phone rang a few Rudemaker called up the contractor, 
minutes later. Eagleton, and said he couldn't put in a new 
"This is Bedcheck the painter," the voice kitchen. Eagleton laid off eight men. 
on the other end said. "When do you want us Meanwhile, General Motors announced it 
to start painting your house?" was giving a rebate on its '75 models. 
"I changed my mind." said Hofberger. Hofberger called up Littleton immediately. 
"I'm not going to paint the house." "Good news," he said, "even if you are 
"But I ordered the paint," Bedcheck said. getting a divorce, you can afford a new 
"Why did you change your mind?" car." 
"Because Littleton is getting a divorce "I'm not getting a .divorce," Littleton 
and he can't afford a new car." said. "It was all a misunderstanding and 
That evening when Bedcheck came home we've made up." 
his wife said, "The new color television set "That's great," Hofberger said. "Now 
arrived from Gladstone's TV Shop." you can buy the Impala." 
"Take it back," Bedcheck told his wife. "No way." said Littleton. "My business 
"Why?" she demanded. has been so lousy I don't know why I keep 
"Because Hofberger isn't going to have the doors open." 
his house painted now that the Littletons are "I didn't know that," Hofberger said. 
getting a divorce." "Do you realize I haven't seen Bedcheck, 
The next day Mrs. Bedcheck dragged the Gladstone, Sandstorm, Gripsholm, TV set in its carton back to Gladstone. "We Rudemaker or Eagleton for more than a don't want it." month? How can I stay in business if they 
don't patronize my store?" 

autrider The Dragon Lady IJ•rry wilis 
The t·urrent chairman of the Council of But if they are truly principled Ob­
Economic \ch isers. Alan Greenspan, is far jectivists, they charge people a fee for 
to the righ1 of \1Ilton Friedman. Friedman hearing the records. The first and fatal 
would at kast control the economy by ad­heresy for an Objectivist is doing someone 
justing tht• money flow. Greenspan is else a favor. This is the Randian sin of 
against any control at all.· Altruism. Every evil stems from it. The 
It shoulcl ~'Ome as no surprise that Altruist does what he or she thinks is good 
Greenspan bt'li1•ves in all the old myths of for another person, thus preventing that 
the free m: rk·. . Ill' is a disciple and friend person from finding out what is good for his 
of Ayn H:·nd who is a spinner of Nietz­or her self. Only if everyone is properly 
schean m. h::-. :md something of a myth selfish can we discover the truly "ob­
herselt --,.r ,i[ least a legend. She is an jective" order of things --an order not 
authentic DraFon I.ad\. a woman so far to imposed by division of those in power but by
the right of W:. liam Ik,·kley that she leaves the concatenation of everyone's authentic 
the room wht'l •,. :· 1.. nters it. l\ls. ltand desires. 
was the on!~· ·t. ·· :·-on. <;)orr.~ "·ith his Logically, this view would lead to total mother. wh,J ), · :l• Gn•en.-p::m as he chaos. All education is an imposition of was sworn .n· someone's standards--even if that someone Some di~m .., ,i 1 :. !\and's influence on is an Objectivist. <There is an Objectivist Greenspan as .mimportant. A t'1an has a college in Florida.) Language is an im­right to his I iend~. ;u-ter all nut Ms. position of thought patterns from the past. Rand's only 'l'ipnds ~:re dis~:· p;,'s, :md But logic has little hold on the Dragon devout discip: ·s at 1hat. Sh~· ~''·en ex­Lady's followers. They have that simple communicatPc lwr ,·hie:· ac,llyt~. ~:.~thaniel vision, preserved as a norm, that explains a Branden. f0 n· : , ·,,'!:'in;.! dev1ations. He reality by existing beside it, always apart there upon -t' ·• ri\'al gt.n: or anti-from it, never sullied by its messier "sub­pope. jective" factors. Thus Alan Greenspan can 
Greensp: I• liy his Handian or-preserve the free market as a model, while thodoxy in tlw ·" ·, :i way --hP wr·s con-participating in the control of our economy verted by th,· ril•nd who :_;pcame, He is trying to jigger reality, inch by inch, briefly, his wilt-. .:Jt young 1aLonalists, over toward his norm. We can all take who allow themsdve~ few enthusiasims and comfort in the fact that the real world will think all life can be "objectively" ordered, never look like the simple and empty accept the Rand discipline with an almost rationalist model he uses. But fanatics who religious ardor, and love to make converts, try to adjust the world, even slightly, toward selflessly preaching the gospel of the contours of a simple dream are capable selfishness. They buy Ms. Rand's lectures of doing great harm. And a talented disciple and play them for others at hushed and of Ms. Rand is just that kind of dangerous reverent sessions. fanatic. 
the observer

by Garry Trudeau 

Night Editor: Bill Brink Asst. Night Editor: Val Zurblls Layout Staff: Katie Kerwin, Martha Fanning 

Day Editors: Maureen Flynn, Mary Egan
~ MAIM/..0/JS JOB I'll Tat.. YOU 
f)fiJ }fXI SIJI<G, I 

Copy Readers: Bob Radziewicz, Ann McCarry: COP/N6 tilTH 7lE THAT/ YOU HAVE TRY TH& TRia? TH& 
Editorials: Fred Graver, John Amantea" lATEST NO IIJ6A t.UHAT P&ACE P£4CE ~­
N1171RAL. THE EHt.'Rf£/W:YI ctY?PS? I CABL.c/J 
Features: Ginny Faust, J. August Llzza, J. 
PfSIIS!fRSl !<£1JEF 8UREAV­I 7JE/tfSEYWIL. 
Robert Baker 

C01CY5l!K£I TIMES/ 
Sports: Greg Corgan 
\ 
'\ 

Typists: C. Arrleh, H. Halle, Sully, D. Roos, J. 
Landis, R. Huber 
Compugraphk:: Chip Spina 

Night Controller: Dave "Sublcaco" Rust 
Late Typist: Howasrd Halle 
Picture Screener: AI 
Ad Layout: Bob Tracey 
Missing Person: Whales 

~-------­
Friday, February 21, 1975 
Letters to 
a Lonely God 



a uniquely catholic thing 
reverend robert griffin i 
There is nothing so absolutely touching to priests regularly meet the window-shopping sacrament of forgiveness, which God in His "Well, you see, Father, I have these sins a priest as when a person speaks the words : penitents: the sinners from Sheboygan who mercy gives us, as a sign by which we can of impurity. I go out on the street and pick "I want to go toconfession." Someone are shamed by adultery, or embarrassed by be certain He has forgiven us. As the up women, and we do bad things together. wanting to go to confession; someone embezzlement, in flight from recognition by catechism says: a sacrament is an external Sometime I steal money from them, Father, wanting to go to confession to you. It is the the local curate in the act of shriving them. sign of an internal grace which God has and sometimes I beat 'em up." 
request that cannot be refused, the A priest understands the need for given. I confess my sins, and the priest, as a "What made you come to confession this reminder that there is a gentleness to be anonymity better than anyone. My own minister of God's healing, declares those evening?" exercised in Christ's name; nothing else is needs for anonymity at times have bordered sins to be forgiven. His absolution is a sign "Well, Father, it's Christmas, and I ain't as important for this moment-neither your on the ridiculous. I could have trusted the that God has heard and is healing us. I don't been feeling too well. I thought to myself, hurry, or weariness, or discouragement,or community's clerics with my sins, but I have to worry that my words have been lost maybe if I could get cleaned up a little, and 
l
your sense of unworthiness-nothing is as didn't want to. Nobody in the community in a void· that stretches between me and go to Midnight Mass, I might feel alittle important as for you to be instantly faithful really cared about knowing my sins, or what heaven. God has taken whatever little piece better.'' • to a ministry of mercy that is at the living I did with them. They would have said, if Of contrition I have, and He has made a 
center of every promise you have ever asked, that the only mistake a man can whole cloth of pardon out of it. The Church Life itself is not a sacrament if you've made to live worthily as God's priest. make with his sins is to needlessly bear assures me through the words of the priest spent fifteen years as a moral derelict on them. that God has truly forgiven me; knowing Forty-second street. Rings must be placed One of the most delightful aspects of going It is embarassing to write about con­this, I can begin to forgive myself. on the fingers of the prodigal, and robe on to confession is that confession is such a fession, if you are a priest, because if you Is confession the only way God will his back, and fatted calves must be slain, as uniquely Catholic thing to do. Protestants are to do it honestly, you must admit that f{)rgive sins? Certainly not; but it is a a sign of the father's love. It is in the life of have their baptism and their Eucharistic sometimes you are on the penitent's side of merciful way He does forgive so that the the sinner that the rituals of forgiveness are practice. They have hymn-singing, Easter the box. There is no way a priest can heal sinner will be at peace with himself, and I most necessary; and the sacraments can be Sunday, and collection baskets. They have himself of sin without the help of another am not left feeling that I must strive and his personal drama of reconciliation which 
priest. You think to yourself: "How contend after God's grace. It is neither brings him home to the cross.
Bible reading, church suppers,and church 
mice. But they don't go to confession. Only humiliating!" How much easier to be a magic nor hocus-pocus. It is a simple This is my thirtieth year now, belonging to Catholics go to confession; only Catholic Protestant Christian, and avoid the rituals assurance in human language that God's a church that goes to confession, and my 
priests hear confessions. Going to con­
which declare a guilt that sickens you with love has touched my life. God's love does twenty-first year of sometimes serving as a fession is one of the scary, uncomfortable shame. Yet, I have gone the Protestant not need rituals to operate through; but the confessor. I know what pain confession duties of religion that Catholics fret about. way. I've known as a Protestant what it is rituals are there in the sacraments. Bread, causes people; I know the reasons people 
like to kneel down and say: "Father, God, wine; water, oil, words-through the use of say that they don't really need it. I think to Even priests, who are used to hearing 
confessions,dread being penitents who must forgive me my sins." For some Protestants­these ordinary things, belonging to myself: if I should ask my family for half 
admit their human shabbiness to another -for all Protestants, if you will-it doub­everyday life, God gives us signs, remin­the nest egg, and travel to a city that really 
tlessly works, but it didn't work for me. ding us of how His love has been revealed to swings, and waste my few dollars onpriest. But confession is the Roman After I had asked God to forgive my sins, I us in the death of his Son Who died on the Manhattans and harlots; and afterwards,Catholic thing to do, and there is a certain 
elegance of style in the lives of those needed reassurance that the Father had cross, and identifying us with His Son, to finding myself destitute and penniless, as 
Catholics who drop allusions to the fact that been listening. Not knowing whether He Whom we are bound in a community of love. well as hung over, I get a job working for 
listened or not, I would confess my sins God's forgiveness is always available to us; tips,parking cars for Howard Johnson's. Ifthey have their own personal confessors. 
But again, there but that forgjveness must become a reality then after hitchhiking as a shabby bum, I"My confessor," says the dowager queen­again. was fear that I 
mother type, overheard on the bus: "My hadn't been clear enough, or sorry enough, for us. Faith exericsed in sacraments gives find it embarrassing to walk through the old 
confessor forbids me to fast during Lent." or trusting enough, for the Father to judge us that special kind of awareness whereby neighborhood where the respectable ladies 
You just know he is a fashionable Jesuit or a me sincere. we experience forgiveness as a truth behind the lace curtains, not knowing me, 
witty Benedictine; and you become lost in Perhaps part of my problem was, healing us with love. are thinking of calling the cops. But if I can admiration imagining the two of them, I couldn't be sure if God had forgiven my I think there are people who do not like a get as far as the front yard, there'll be a detached and professional, studying the sins because I hadn't forgiven myself for sacrament, mostly because they feel little Irish mother waiting, with tears and dilemmas of a dowager's sins. Only them. I hadn't forgiven myself for the sins sacraments are not necessary. God walks cookies, and teardrops in her lovely eyes ... dowagers don't really have sins, which is 
which wounded my pride and self respect, with them, they say, and talks them, and 
why they can allow themselves the luxury of or I couldn't forgive myself for being cruel tells them that they are His own. Life itself I've seen sinners leaving the church on 
having confessors in the first place. Per­or negligent or exploitative with another is a sacrament, they say, and God is always Saturday night who have felt they were 
sonal confessors are a way some dowager human being. Because I felt so crumby breaking into glory around them. I guess children who had experienced such a 
queen-mother types have of complimenting about myself, I felt it would be lying to maybe if you've got the sunbeams, you homecoming. On one or two occasions, I 
themselves for never being more than a myself to easily imagine God could forgive don't need a Eucharist. But I know some have felt like a lost sheep gathered into the 
little naughty. me my moral wretchedness. lives on Forty-second street where the shepherd's arms, myself. Being rescued 
But most of us who could really profit People often say: won't God forgive me sunbeams never come. I've met some of from death brings a lovely, warm Catholic 
from having a personal confessor are too my sins without confession, if I kneel down those lives in a Christmas confession. feeling. Despite all of the pain of the 
much embarrassed to expose ourselves and ask him? I'm sure God has, and will, "It's been fifteen years since my last journey home, I have blessed the sheepfold 
that makes a sacrament out of
regularly to the discernment of a single eye, forgive us under any circumstances in confession, Father." 
so we window-shop for confessors. City which we approach Him. But there is a "What has kept you away for so long?" homecomings. 

sirens intermingled with moans 
a review by mary margaret sheeran 
Inscribe a circle. Build a cathedral. The with much the same external appearance, enacted. theatre. but with differences all the same internally, The atmosphere is chilling from the start. 
When a play is produced, the members of for the family is a different one. Over and Rusty wheels, discarded. Heavy double cast and crew, a family, draw together, and over and over ... doors inlaid with gold, green, and red they begin to learn new things about each Until there is an end. designs, circles set in squares. The stage other, the universe. These lessons continue, Euripides' Medea, as does all theatre, area is blocked by dark walls. Despite, again and again changed as they circle arises from ritual. It is somehow a symbol perhaps because of, visions of people upwards around a growing spiral. Finally, of the culmination of western theatre that working behind the scenes, of ladders, of 
the family has given all they can alone. here our Speech and Drama department's ushers' flashlights, there is a sense of fear 
is a need to share the discoveries made in production of Medea is a free adaptation by among us, a dread of some dark event to isolation, in discipline, in drudgery. An Robinson Jerfers, that it takes place on a come. At the same time; we are aware that audience comes. The family reaches out to proscenium stage, in the round, with the we are upon the stage, and we are nervous. the audience, whereupon the audience audience upon the stage. The "fourth wall" 
Music ... Sirens intermingled with moans,becomes a part of the family. The "faity" is has been erected, and we are on the "in­the beating of drums, the horrifying and
spread in a ritual where tomorrow, the same side", bordering, a part of and apart from ceremony will come again, over and over, the central area where the drama ·is to be grotesque sounds of the ritual, jangling 
bells, jangling nerves. 

Sharon Carr, as the Nurse, opens Medea alone, at the very beginning, which is a feat demanding of courage. That she im­mediately brings us into Corinth and the stateof affairs there, is a credit to her, even though she is not quite convincing as the aged woman. Statuesque and quite regal, as becomes ladies of Greece, are the three women of Corinth played by Kathleen Rink, Barbara Narmont, and Christine Sterner, whereas Dan Daily (Creoq) and Bill McGlinn <Jason> are somewhat disap­pointing in the first Act. They seem un­comfortable and stiff, although the cause might be in that there is not as much meat in their roles as they have been accustomed to biting into. It must be further said the McGlinn's Jason was intensely moving as events were shaped by Medea's hands. Aegeus, played by J. Matthew McKenzie, was a ray of rational sunlight, and the presence of the children, played by Terry McFadden and Greg McGlinn, was pain­fully poignant in view of the events of the play. 
Katherine Burke does not perform. In­stead, Medea, with her horrible magic, sends her spirit into Burke's body, and what we witness is horrible, magnificent, funny, awesome, and Medea. The different characters are twisted into her own grasp and we are twisted into hers. 
However, none of these individual per­formances matter. What matters is what they shape together, and what they shape together is positively ... Medea. Something which must be experienced and shared with an audience. In some respects, Medea is a difficult experience to share as we are close to the characters, and as the moaning and writhing is difficult to take at first. Yet, if there is an attempt made, we too become a part of the ritual. 
Directed by Frederic Syburg, Medea will be in O'Laughlin again and again, on February 22, 23 (an afternoon per­formance), 26, 27, 28, and March 1, over and over. 

poetry reading 

A reading of original poetry and prose by woml'n of the Notre Dame community will be held this Sunday, February 23. The readers. who are all undergrads, graduate students. or faculty members of Notre Dame. will,include Dr. Dolores Frese, Joan Mcl~tosh. Madeline Parnell, Terri Phelps, Mana 0 'Meara, Anne Dilenschneider Margaret Eisch, Patty Felelon, and Melit~ Schaum. 
The reading is open to the public, and will begin at 2:00p.m. at 102 Wakewa St., South Bend. Those desiring further information or directions can contact Laureen Goers 283­:l226 or Mary Beth Miracky, 283-7905.' ­
8 the observer 
=---~ 

Boston Catholic diocese defends abortion jurors in bias claiin 

BOSTON <UPI) The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Boston Thursday defended the predominantly catholic jury which found Dr. Kenneth C. Edelin guilty of manslaughter of a fetus in a legal abortion. 
Ending an editorial silence which extended throughout the six-week trial, the archdiocese said, "The juror is not the villain of the piece." It was responding to Edelin 's post­verdict charge that an unbiased official organ of the archdi­ocese, also criticized the press for biased reporting in defense of the 36-year-old Boston City Hospital obstetrician, who was convicted Saturday. 
jury  was  unobtainable  in  
Boston.  
An  editorial in  The  Pilot,  the  

The nine-man, three-woman jury included at least nine Roman Catholics. 
Edelin 's attorney, William Homans, had said in retrospect 
Fell:man praises court 
(continued from page 3) 

would jeopardize -the separation of powers." However, the only restriction he offered on the Court's power was self-restraint, often exercised by the Court. 
Co-discussant Charles E. Rice also warned against the tendency of the Supreme Court to become a "superlegislature," and said, "I am concerned about the tendency to give undue moral deference to the decisions of the Court."
' The Notre Dame law professor
• went on, "We should do something
• 
to ensure the responsibility of the 
judiciary. We must consider 
whether it is good for the country to have vast powers lodged in a non-elected official in view of what has happened to the Presidency." 
He suggested such action as putting institutional restrictions into the constitution, and ap­pointing the judges for a limited time with full benefits after their terms. 
Fr. Raymond F. Cour, the other co-discussant and professor of Government at Notre Dame, applauded Fellman's paper, and concluded that the Supreme Court "has protected the province of the judicial branch system and shown proper self-restraint on decisions between branches of government in Watergate." 






Roam around 
Europe all summer 

br$180. 
A Student-Railpass gives you two months of unlimited Second Class rail travel through 13 European countries. Buy one, we'll give you a map, and where you go next is your own business. 
All we'll say is that European trains are a -sensational way to get there, be it Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden or Switzerland. 
100,000 miles of track link cities, towns and historic, scenic and social attractions. Our trains are fast, modern, convenient, clean and comfortable. 
And you'll discover there's very little second class about Second Class. You can sleep in a couchette for only $6.00 a night. And if you want to eat on a budget, inexpensive snacks are often available. 
You can even take a cruise on the Rhine, if you like. Eurailpass is valid on many European ferries, river and lake steamers and hydro­foils. It also offers you substantially reduced fares on many side excursions you might want to take by motor coach. 
And how's this for travel convenience? Many rail stations offer bikes for rental, and it's possible to pick up a bike at one station and drop it off at another. 
All you need to qualify is to be a full-time student under 26. There's just one catch: You must buy your Student-Railpass here before you take off. They're 
not for sale in Europe. 
If you have less time to travel, or want to travel First Class, consider Eurailpass. A two-week pass costs $130. Three-week pass costs $160. One month, $200. Two months, $270. Three months, $330. 
Don't wait. It could be the trip of your life. See your Travel Agent or clip the coupon and we'll send you all the facts. 
Prices subject to change. 
STUDENT·RAILPASS 
his client might have been better served if he'd waived trial by jury and argued the case before a judge. 
A pre-trial poll of 1,000 prospective jurors, taken by Decision Research Corp. at Homans' request, found accept­ance of abortion in some form -if even only to save the life of the mother-in 85 per cent of persons questioned. Results of the poll helped convince Ho­mans not to seek a trial site outside Boston. 
The Pilot said Edelin 's claim Sunday that the die was cast for his conviction when the jurors were picked, was like arguing "Mr. Nixon be judged <only> by former presidents; Watergate defendants be checked only by political people ... criminals only by other criminals ... In short, (that) no one should ever be confronted by just ordinary citizens who might bring community and personal insights into a case far more valuable than peculiar expertise. 
Advertisement 
DEPRESSION ART "FOUND" 

Public Offered 

1937 U.S. Gov't 

Art Prints 

A series of rare coincidences has led to the historic discovery of several thousand sets of full color antique art prints that were "lost since 1937." They are now being offered to the public. 
REANOR ROOSEVELT 

Back in 1937, immediately fol­lowing the depression years, Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt and a select group of a dozen nationally pro­minent people formed a volun­tary national committee for art appreciation to create an art pro­gram that would give the public a well-needed moral lift. It was the committee's decision to select the world's most famous paintings from the 16th, 17th, 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries -the best paintings of Matisse, Van Gogh, Gainsborough, Picasso, Gauguin, Titian, etc., and to reproduce them in full color as perfectly as humanly possible and make them available to the public at a price within the reach of everyone. 
ABANDONED IN 1937 

For some unknown reason, 
after a quantity of these beautiful 
reproductions were made, the en­
tire project was abandoned and 
this collection of perfect repro­
ductions was stored in a Brooklyn 
warehouse, where they remained 
undisturbed since 1937. 
The lost collection waa "redia­
covered" and leading lithogra­
phers and art critic• agree that 
the subject maHer and quality of 
detail and color reproduction is 
incredibly accurate. Over $500,­
000.00 bad been spent to make engraved gla11 printing plates These authentic orginal 1937 prints are literally collector'• itema and have been appraised by the American Appraiaera Auoc. 
at $7.00 each print. Once they have been sold, there will be no more available. A truly excellent art "investment" that makea a fabulous gift. 
AVAILABLE TO PUBLIC 

Now, after 38 years these full color 11" x 14" (ave. size) priotl are finally available to the public at $19.95 for a collection of 18 prints. Send cash, check or mon­ey order to: U.S. Surplus, Dept. X17 , P. 0. Box 605, Tarzana, Calif. 91356. Fully GUARAN­TEED. Certificate of authenticity given with each set. Master Charge and BankAmericard OK (give card number). 
:\dv-t'rtisement 
urailpass, Box 90 Deot. 192-2056, Bohemia. New York 11716 

Please send me your free 0 Student-Railpass folder 0 Eurailpass folder 
I Street__________________....,.lllll"'i 
1 1 c·1ty State z·IP•---­
1 The price of one trip could pay for all of Europe. 
Friday, Fe~ruary 21, 1975 
the observer 
9 

Israel not seeking US pact 
Syriatodecline mandate renewal 
By llnited Press International 
A Beirut newspaper which reflects views of the ruling Baath party in Damascus said Thursday Syria told Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger it will not renew the mandate of the U.N. peacekeeping force on the Golan Heights which expires on May 30. 
CO DUCA ION 
In Tel Aviv, Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin said Israel has not sought a defense pact with the United States and does not intend to ask for one. He said Israel would rely on its own strength. 
Egyptian parliament speaker Sayyed Marei told a visiting Yugoslav parliamentary delega­tion in Cairo that reports Egypt is seeking a unilateral settle­ment with Israel was "mali­cious propaganda." He said Syria is Egypt's "equal part­ner" and must be a party to any solution of the Middle East conflict. 

The Beirut newspaper AI Sharq, in a frontpage editorial said: 
"It is known that Syria has informed the American Secre­tary it will not extend the mandate of the U.N. observers in the Golan Heights which. expires on the last day of May. 
"Syria asked fot the recon­vening of the Geneva confer­ence this month or early next month in order to determine the <Middle East) situation oncr and for all." 
Rabin, speaking to students at Bar Han University near Tel Aviv, said: 
"Israel's position is and remains not to appeal to the United States or any other country and to ask for guarantees for its security and existence. 
"Israel is strong and wise enough so that when her security is discussed in the framework of the Arab-Israeli conflict she must rely on her own strength and her own 
Gross National Product drops. pr1ces soar lD record ju111p 
By LEONARD .:"uRRY 
WASHINGTON (UP!) Prices increased at a record 
14.4 per cent annual rate in the final three months of 1974 while the Gross National Product fell 
9.1 per cent, the Commerce Department said Thursday. 
The inflation rate was even worse than the 13.7 per cent 

r.---------,
MAIL THIS 1 :coUPON FOR 1 1FOLDERSON I ILOWEST-COST I lfARES&TOURS:1TO EUROPE 1
I of any scheduled airline I 
ITO: ICELANDIC AIRLINES I 6305thAve., N.Y.,N.Y.10002I 
8b5 
I ~~~~~i1 ~~2J ~~~ :r5outside I1 N.Y.,diaiWatslnformation 1I (800l 555-1212 I 
I Name I t Street I I City I 1 State Zip __ I 1 Please send folders on: 1 0 LOWEST YOUTH FARES I
I Save money no matter when1 you leave, how long you stay! 1 0 CAMPING TOURS I · Deluxe camping for 18-30 I 
age group. Bigchoiceof 1I tours including Eastern 1 Europe. I 
0 SKI THE ALPS I Thur mid-April. Low prices I for 1 & 2 week tours. 1 
0 CAR & RAIL TOURS Choiceof1, 2 &3week tours. Gowhereyouwant. Campers, too! 
0 ICELANDIC TOURS Expeditions for naturalists, geologists. Viking history tours. 
0 AFFINITY GROUP TOURS Form your own school club group of at least 25 members traveling together. Save money. Have fun with friends. 
Icelandic offers daily scheduled jets from New York, and several jets weekly from Chicago, to Luxembourg in the heart of Europe. At lower fares than any other scheduled airline since 1952! 
SEEYOURTRAVELAGENT 
ICELANDIC AIRLINES 
Your Best Buy In The Sky J
L 
Commerce estimated in last month's preliminary report. The previous record inflation was 13 per cent in the first three months of 1951. 
The revised data meant the average American's living standard seriously eroded in the waning months of 1974. Contrary to traditional econom­ic theory, prices continued to rise despite declining produc­tion and growing unem­ployment. 
Heal output of goods and services declined in the fourth quarter of 1974 at a rate reminiscent of the period after World War II when the nation was converting from arms production to consumer goods. Commerce said the GNP was estimated at an annual rate of $803.8 billion in the fourth quarter compared with $823.1 billion in the third. 
When inflation is included, the GNP reached an estimated $1.43 trillion at an annual rate in the fourth quarter, up from $1.42 trillion in the third quarter. The increase in "cur­rent dollar" terms was entirely due to inflation, Commerce said. 
The GNP is considered the 
broadest indicator of the 
economy's health. It covers the 
output of mines, utilities and 
factories along with the value of money investments and service industries which pro­duce no goods. 
Commerce said the fourth quarter decline was the second worst since 1946 when the nation was converting from war production to consumer goods. 
The revised GNP data showed that inventories con­tinued to grow, largely because of reduced sales. The auto industry had a record volume of unsold cars at the end of 1974. Consumer spending was down. 
The record inflation in the fourth quarter resulted from a statistical quirk combined with higher prices, Assistant Com­merce Secretary James Pate said earlier. 
Pate said a 5.5 per cent federal pay raise in October added nearly 1 per cent to the fourth quarter inflation rate, while declining sales of houses and cars resulted in giving them less influence than customary in moderating high­er prices for services and other goods. 
The increase in the inflation rate in the fourth quarter "appears to owe much to consumer abandonment of items whose prices behaved comparatively well and the statistical importance of the federal pay raise," Pate said. 
ability to protect her boun­daries." 
Rabin, however, conceded Israel could not protect itself if the Soviet Union intervened. 
"Just as Europe cannot protect itself from military intervention of the second great power of the world," he said, "I doubt that even with our strength we could stand against her ourselves." 
Rabin said he would "be 

,..,1_ • -· 307 S MICH TONIGHT: DOORS
~ ST 
~•• 288·7800• • 
OPEN 6:15 P.M. 
STARTS TONIGHT A SWINGING TRIO ALL 3 FILMS RATED R ! EACH ONE SHOWN ONCE NIGHTLY ! 
NO. 1 ONCE ONLY AT 9:30 f 
They gave theirall for the team! 
~~lJ,eerleade~ 
NO. 2 AT 8:00 ONL NO. 3 AT 6:30 ONLY 




NICKlE'S 

PRESENTS 
60 HOURS 
OF THE LOWEST BEER PRICES IN THE COUNTRY! 
MON, TUES, WED: 
NOON  -MIDNIGHT  
THURS, FRI, SAT:  
NOON  -8:00 P.M.  

PLUS THE BEST HALF-POUND CHARCOAL GRILLED HAMBURGERS IN TOWN 
, 


SUNDAY FEBRUARY 23 "The Heart is a Lonely Hunter" 7:30, 10 p.m. 
MONDAY FEBRUARY 24 "To Have and Have Not" 8, 10 p.m. 
TUESDAY FEBRUARY 25 
"The Last Hurrah" 8, 10 p.m. 
WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 26 
"The Loved One" 8, 10 p.m. 
THURSDAY FEBRUARY 27 
"Do'!'t Look Now" 8, 10 p.m. 
happy" if Kisinger's diplomacy could help Israel "go from war to peace in one step," but added, "I'm afraid this is impossible." 
The question of possible U.S. military guarantees for Israels security came up this week in reports that Kissinger was considering such a move as a means of enabling Israel to make more concessions in its peace negotiations with the Arabs. 
U.S. spyingoperations threatened 
By CLAY F. RICHARDS 
WASHINGTON <UPI> -CIA Director William Colby said Thursday legitimate American spying operations are threat­ened by false charges that his agency engaged in massive domestic intelligence. 
Strongly defending his belea­guered agency, Colby said "missteps were few and far between" and did not justify the outcry raised by news reports. 
He said "almost hysterical excitement" surrounding news stories about CIA spying has "raised questions whether se­cret intelligence operations can be conducted by the United States." 
The CIA is being investigated by a special presidential commission headed by Vice President Nelson A. Rockefel­ler. In addition, special House and Senate committees have been created to investigate the agency. 
In testimony prepared for the defense subcommittee of the House Appropriations Commit­tee, Colby was particularly critical of the New York Times, which on Dec. 22 printed the first story of domestic spying. He said reporter Seymour M. Hersh "mixed and magnified two separate subjects" -legal activities and "those few activities" that may have been illegal. 
"The sensational atmosphere surrounding intelligence, howe­ver, encourages oversimplifica­tion and disproportionate stress on a few missteps rather than on the high quality of the CIA's basic work," Colby said. 
"There may have been occasions when CIA may have exceeded its proper bounds. 
They were undertaken in the belief that they fell within the agency's charter to collect foreign intelligence or to protect intelligence sources and methods." 
Colby called for "sober and reasonable" investigations by Congress and said he hoped they would be conducted in secrecy so ongoing operations would not be jeopardized. 
Colby for the first time denied specific allegations, in­cJuding: 
-New York Times reports the CIA engaged in telephone wiretaps and break-ins in New York City, which he labeled "false.". 
-The CIA manages a "$200­million-a-year top secret corpo­rate empire" to circumvent the will of Congress. "False,"' he said. 
-Involvement in the Water­

gate cover-up. He said the CIA "certainly had nothing to do with Watergate" after contacts with Watergate burglars prior to the actual break-in. 
-The CIA manipulated local police for domestic activities. This Colby denied although he said the agency maintained "friendly liaison relationships" and "extended mutual cour­tesies" to local police depart­ments. 
-Colby acknowledged the C{A invited U.S. firms to bid on a contract to study new foreign developments in transportation technology, but denied this was aimed at spying on friends. 
THE ROMA PIZZA * LIQUOR * ITALIAN FOOD 
Your Host Frank Anastasio 'A PIZZA YOUCANNOT REFUSE' LIVE BAN D S 0 N WEEK EN D S 
Call 234-3258 For Delivery 219 N. Mich. Ave. Downtown At North End Of River Bend Plaza 


... 
Hewlett-Packard introduces a smaller uncompromising calculator: the HP-21Scientific. 
$125.00: 
Now $125.00 buys: 
More power than our HP-35. 32 pre-pro­grammed functions and operations vs. 22 for our HP-35. The HP-21 performs all log and trig functions, the latter in radians or degrees. It's our only calculator short of the HP-45 that lets you: 
• 
convert polar to rectangular coordinates, and back again (~P,~R); 

• 
do full register arithmetic (M+, M-:, MX, 


M+); 
• calculate a common antilog (lOX) with a single keystroke. 
The HP-21 also performs all basic data manipulations (1 jx, yx, VX, ") and executes all pre-programmed functions in one second or less. In sum, it's designed to solve tomorrow's problems as well as toclay's. 
Smaller size. 6 ounces vs. 9 ounces for our HP-35. 
Full display formatting. The display key (DSP) lets you choose between Axed decimal and scientific notation and lets you control the num­her of places displayed. (The HP-21 always uses all 10 digits internally.) 
If a number is too large or small for Axed decimal display, the HP-2f switches automati­cally to scientific. It never confuses a smaller number with zero. 
Finally, if you give the HP-21 an impossible 
instruction, the Display spells E-r-r-o-r. RPN logic system. Here's what this unique logic system means for you: 
• 
You can evaluate any expression without copying parentheses, worrying about hierar­chies or re-structuring beforehand. 

• 
You can solve all problems your way-the way you now use when you use a slide rule. 

• 
You solve all problems-no matter how com­plex-one step at a time. You never work with more than two numbers at once. 

• 
You see all intermediate answers immediately. The HP-21 executes each function immedi­ately after you press the function key. 

• 
You can easily backtrack when you err. The HP-21 performs all operations sequentially. 


• You can re-use numbers without re-entering 
them. The HP-21 becomes your scratch pad. ' 
H-P quality craftsmanship. One reason Nobel Prize winners, astronauts, conquerors of Ever­est, America's Cup navigators and over 500,000 other professionals own H-P calculators. 
Your bookstore will give you a demonstra­tion today. Challenge our new HP-21 with your problems. See for yourself how much per­formance $125 .00* can buy. If your bookstore doesn't have the HP-21 yet, call us at 800­538-7922 (in Calif. 800-662-9862) for the name of a dealer who does. 
HEWLETT¢¢ PACKARD 
Sales and service from 17'2 offices in 65 countries. Dert. 658,' 19310 Prune ridge Avenue, Curertino, CA 9501·! 
hi ~/O'J 

*Suggested retail price excluding arplicable state and local taxes­Continental U.S./\., Alaska & Hawaii. 

SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS PRESENTS--------------­ ----, I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
with special guests M A N  III 1  
SATURDAY  MARCH 1 8 00:  p.m.  II  

Heavy action slated lor Irish teams this weekend 
Coach Fred Pechek's Notre Dame wrestling team concludes the dual meet season this weekend with an Ohio excursion that in­dudes stops at Akron Friday and .John Carroll Saturday. With two wins in five matches last week the Irish record moved to 13-10 t•stablishing a new school victory mark. 
Notre llame tied Akron last vear and this season the Zips are 4·-6. Leading the Akron matmen is liB pounder Greg Kt•sselring who .is undefeated and the favorite to capturt' the NCAA Division title. lit• finished third last year. 
Tlw JCU Alumni Club's Golden (;rappler Award will be at stake when .John Carroll and Notre 
Damt•squareoffinCleveland. The
BlueStreakswon it last year with a 
28-9 wi~ and are possibly even 
Sw1mmers home 
. Tht• Notre Dame swtm _team .
h t f t 
eIoses aut th e orne por IOn o 1 s schedule Satuday at 2:00 P.M. against Illinois State in the Rockne 1\lt>morial Pool. Last year the Irish squeaked by the Fighting Red­birds. !l7-56, at Normal. Ill. That nwet marked the 1ooth career victory for Notre Dame Coach lknnis Stark. The series stands at :l-2 in favor of Illinois State. The 10-1 Irish are closing out their best st•ason l'Vl'1' in a season highlighted 
by a 10!-!amPwinning streak. 
Fencers at U of I 
(continued from page 12) 
23rd victory in 33 outing 
over the Badgers. Illinois and Wisconsin are two of only four teams that have defeated Notre Dame 10 or more times since 1934. 
The Irish next home meet of the 
year will be on March I , when 
huffalo, Case Western Reserve, 
Purdue and Miami of Ohio will 
invade the ACC for a 10 a.m. 
tourney in the auxiliary gym. 
l<'ollowing that the Irish will host 
the Great Lakes Fencing Tour­
nament on March 7 and B, which 
will feature some of the best teams 
in the countrv. 

Hogs play Dillon 
As part of the Wacky Winter Wct>kend ft•stivities, the Holy ('ross I logs will face the Big Red of Dillon in a ''grudge" tackle foot­hall gamt• Saturday afternoon at .UIO p.m. on the rield adjoining lloly Ct·oss hall and the road­connt•cting Notre Dame with St. l\1ary's. 
Tht• Hogs are out to avenge their 
interhall loss to Dillon in the 
championship game lastfalland 
the tackling .tomorrow will be done 
with or without pads. The football 
gamt• is in lieu of the co-ed hockey 
contest that was originally 
scht>duled for that time. This 
switch ought to please the 
bloodthirsty. 

TOMORROW· TODAY AT 2 & 8 
A.F.T. PRESENTS 

"Brecht'LGalileo' is a distinguished piece of work." 
-Saturday Review 
Tickets• $5.00 Evenings. $3.50 Matinees . ($2.50 lor SeniorCitizens/Siudenls at Mati11ees .1 Available alter AFT Season Ticket holders are se!lted. 







OBSERVER 
SPORTS
I 
Track team at Kalamazoo 
for Central Collegiatemeetl MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM I 
. .. . 
The Notre Dame track team will llmsh of a year ago as Mike 
travel to Kalamazoo, Mich., Gahagan will also be trying to Friday night for the 49th running of repeat his first place .showing in the Ct•ntal Collegiate Conference the 1000-yard run. Several records 
track mt•et. Twenty teams will are t•xpectcd to be broken as converge at Western Michigan national track powers Southern University in hopes of defeating Illinois. Kansas, Drake and last year's team champion, Bowling Green will be par­I<:astern Michigan. The Irish will ticipating. try to improve on their fourth place 
Robinson Jeffers 
I-w I NO MEDEA 
adapted from Euripedes 
Feb. 20,')(-8 pm 
(No Show Feb. 21)
SMC 
Feb. 23 -2:30 pm Feb. 26, 27, 2a{Mar.X-8 pm 
THEATRE 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Arena Seating -284-4176 $1.50 Stud-Fac-Staff 


u·ue 
been there. 

nowyoucan
help them. 
They've got a long way to go. In a world that isn't easy. But with someone's help, they'll make it. What they need is a friend. Someone to act as confidant and guide. Perhaps, it could be you as a Salesian Priest or Brother. 
The Salesians of St. John Bosco were founded in 1859 to serve youth. Unlike other orders whose apostolate has changed with varying conditions, the Salesians always have been ..:... and . will be, youth oriented. Today we're helping to prepare young­sters for the world that awaits them tomorrow. Not an easy task but one which we welcome. 
And how do we go about it? By following the precepts of our founder, Don Bosco. To crowd out evil with reason, religion and kindness with a method of play, learn anc! pray. We're trying to build better communities by helping to create better men. 
As a Salesian, you are guaranteed the c:Oance to help the young in a wide range of endeavor ... as guidance counsel­ors, technical and academic teachers, as coaches, psychologists ... in boy~ clubs, summer camps ... as mission­aries. And you are given the kind of training you need to achieve your aims. 
The Salesian family is a large one (we are the third largest order) but a warm one. A community with an enthusiastic family feeling where not only our talents are shared but our short­comings, too. If you feel as we do, that service to youth can be an important mission in your life, we welcome your interest. 
For more information about Salesian Priests and 
I

------------~ 
Brothers, mail this coupon to: 
Father Joseph Maffei, S.D.B. Room B·
I 
I Salesians~~X ~!9.J~~NR~c~~~~~N.Y. 10802 I
I I
I am interested In the Priesthood D Brotherhood D 
I 
Name Age 
I 

~reetAdd~•-------------------------------------­
1 
City State Zip 
I 

Phone----------------------------------------­
1 I
Ed"'*lon 


Friday, February 21, 1975 
the observer 
11 
~---­
•I 

1 Tickets: $5.5o <advance> 
$6 50 <da of sh ) 1
I · Y ow .. I
I Now on sale at Morris Civic Auditorium and at Boogie Records in I 
1'ollege Sauare. Mishawaka .
I I 
L--~UJJ.C!!"!!-~.!_~L-~~!.S!<2_t;!. __.: 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Two or more DePaul tix. Casey, 212. 9321. 
Need ride to Chicago this weekend. Urgent. 5124. 
Need 10 DePaul fix. 289-2757. 
-­---­ 
Ride wanted,  DC  area,  weekend  

March l. Fran, 5714. 
Married couple needed for live-in houseparents for foster home. Salary. Write P.E.P. Inc., 3012 Twickenham, South Bend, 46614. 
I need a ride to Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. during the spring break (help pay for qas and drive, too). Please call Mark at 255-5559. 
Need ride to Chicago or West. Call Betsy. 1340. 
Need ride east (Toledo) weekend of Feb. 28. Call Ann, 4264. 
House for rent, 1 mile from campus, ready for immediate occupancy. 233-6438. 
Want to buy girl's bike, any speed, 26" Maureen, 233-3758. 
NPed ride to Columbus, Ohio, weekend of Feb. 28. Call Chris, 4264. 
RECREATION WORKER, in group horne for delinquent adolescent qirls. Room and board offered for supervision of 3 recreation activities per week. Full-time work or study outside the home is permitted. 
Excellent  experience  opportunity  
tor  soc.,  psych.,  social  work,  
<'ducation,  theology,  etc.,  majors.  

Reply to Carol Wilken, 233-9491. 
FOR SALE 
Money? Morrissey Loan will lend up to $150 for 30 days, 1 day waiting period. Basement of LaFortune, daily, 11:15 to 12:15. 
Pioneer turntable PL-51 with AT-125 cartridge. Call Ed, 1487. 
One black and white 12-inch Motorola television. Call Ed, 1487. 
'62 vw bug, gas heater, 4-speed, sunroof, runs good. Call Michelle, 291-1598. 
NOTICES 
SPRING BREAK TRIP TO MON. TEGO BAY, JAMAICA . RESER­VATIONSWILL BE TAKEN UNTIL THIS FRIDAY, FEB. 21. TO SIGN UP OR FOR FURTHER IN· FORMATION, CALL 272-9895 AFTER 7:00 P.M. 
GOOD TICKETS FOR THE FRANKIE VALLI & THE FOUR SEASONS CONCERT MARCH 8 AT MORRIS CIVIC ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE. ALL SEATS RESERVED. 
Campus Press is now hiring an experienced pressman. Interested? 
. Contact C.P. at 7047, 1-5; nights, call Glen, 287-6245. 
Disciplinary action hanging over your head? Call Student Govt, 7668. We may be able to help. 
Tune-up specialist: 2-barrel car. buretor overhaul, $24.95, parts in. eluded. 232-1796. 
S.H.A.R.E. Hotline phone, 4311, rm. 15 Holy Cross S.M.C. Completely confidential. 8-12 nightly. 
Pipes, papers, new and used boOks, magaz.ines, and newspapers to round out a good weekend. Pan­dora's Books. 602 N. St. Louis St. at 
S. Bend Ave. 

-----_________, 
Overseas Jobs . Australia, Europe, 
S. America, Africa. Students, all professions and occupations. $700­$3000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing. Free in­formation. Transworld Research Co .• Dept. F3, P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera, CA., 94925. 
ME D I CAL P-::R-::0-::D-:-U-C-T-G-R0 U P DISCUSSION: Any person (student, faculty, or staff) interested in participating in a group discussion of the effectiveness and-or uses of cold & sinus remedies, (e.g., Contac, Dristan, Nyquil, Sinutab, Sine-Off, Sine-Aid, and SinarestJ please call .Jim al3155, D.C. at 1739, or Myron at 8667. 
What good is sitting alone in your room? Gay Students of Notre Dame, 
P.O. Box 1702, South Bend, IN. 46601. 
ND SMC Council for ~etarded: meet this Sat., 11 a.m .. at Logan Center for the Ice Capades. More info, call Kevin, 289 3408. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost. qold bracelet with white . flowers at SMC of great sen­timental value. Call 5409. 
Accidentally switched Navy wrap jackets at Crestwood party Fri. Call Marianne, 284-4101. 
Lost: sterling silver cross, 3 fourths inch, no chain. Between D-1 parking lot and Keenan. Of great sen. timental value. Reward offered. If found, call Pat, 3303. 
FOR RENT 
A 6mo. sublease of a $175 1-bedroom apt. for only $130. If interested call Bonnie, 232-5853. 
Now renting 2 to 5 bedroom homes. Completely furnished for Sept. Call 234-9364. 
PERSONALS 
Laz: l'rn qonna punch Eddie Bramlet 21 times in the stomach. Happy Bir­thday. 
Bicka Backa 
Ex Rebel No. 20 and current Irish No. 43: Is it Moose or Boom.Boom? 
To CClrol: Our little physicist. happy 21. Love, joybean 
Pete Crow proudly announces his <'ngagernent to Joni Mitchell. 
Kathleen: You color rny world and I'll colour yours. 
Higher than a kite 
TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN: Please give Judy a break .. for our sakes! 
Anne and Jane 
Carol: Happy Birthday. from the Snow Fairies one and all. 
MH: Think this is your birthday, so Happy Birthday. If not, best wishes anyway. 
Your friend from Bio 
Pat & Cindy? 
Another Tuesday? Rocco's? John  game Loser  of buys  cut-throat a pizza at  
Dear Marcie: Happy Birthday,  and  thahks  for  

making The Observer such a swell, neato place to work. Your Devoted Fellow-Wor.kers at The Observer 
• 


... 
'i' 

stronger this year with a lG-2 record and a National Catholic championship. JCU claimed eight individual titles at the NCIT with a \·eteran lineup that includes such All-American candidates as Al Evangelista at 126, Mark Hewald­eale at 134, AI Hess at 158 and 340­pounder heavyweight .Joseph 
Bertolone. 

Cagers at DePaul; leers host UMD 
Phelps squad out to up 16-7 record, ice tourney bid by Bill Brink 
Whether they step into the Mideast or Midwest division, Digger Phelps' Irish cagers have one foot in the tournament door and are determined not to be denied t•ntrance now. 
But tt.e Irish will still have to put their best foot forward in their three remaining regular-season contests, beginning tomorrow afternoon when they travel to Alumni Hall in Chicago to take on the Blue Demons of DePaul. Tipoff is scheduled for 3:00 p.m. CST. 
For Phelps and his players, the prime motivation now is the eham·1· of receiving a bid to the NCAA tournament, a bid which would be the fulfillment of the season-long goal. After struggling through a vicious schedule and some heartbreaking defeats, it would appear that the more mature, experienced Irish ball club is at the point of achieving that goal. 
"It took us a while, but I think we've finally made it," said Digger. "We're now a team to be reckoned with. Considering the youth of this team, 





PORTNOY'S COMPLAINT 
starring Richard Benjamin Karen Black 
Eng. Aud.  7  -9 • 11  
Friday  -Saturday  Feb. 21, 22  
- 

Admission $1.00 Rated R 
go. 
I expected a certain learning process. Sure we're still going to make some mistakes, but this team has come a long way." 
It could be a long way to nowhere if the Irish look past their next three games. starting with what Demon coach Ray Meyer calls "The finest tt•am ever here at DePaul." DePaul is eurrently 13-9, coming off a narrow (;6-64 defeat at the hands of Duquense on Sunday. Last year Notre Damt• routed the Blue Demons 101-72, ~ut Meyer (a 1938 ND graduatl'l returns six lettermen, induding four starters. 
The open starting position is rather noticably filled this year by fresh­man giant Dave Corzine. Corzine ranges around the seven foot mark, and weighs about 235lbs., and his mobility around the basket has enabled him to ehalk up a 12.1 scoring average this season. In addition, his presence in the middle has allowed Meyer to move leading scorer Bill Robinzine to the wing. where he has responded by averaging 18.8 points per game. Throw in t;-9 junior Andy Pancratz at the other forward and you've got a front line with an average height of 6-10. 
DePaul starts a productive backcourt, led by Ron Norwood 05.00 ppg) and senior Greg Boyd (11.9 ppg). Senior Jim Bocinsky comes off the bench to average 11.4 points per game, the fifth Demon player with a double figure scoring average. 
The Irish, meanwhile, will be trying to extend their live-gaml' winning streak and capture their tenth victory in their last elelven games. Perhaps the main advantage they hold now is the superb performances of the young reserves and the different combinations it has allowed Phelps to play. . 
"The factor in our fav.or now is bench strength," said Digger. "With the development of Toby Knight, Dave Batton, Duck Williams and Jeff Carpenter, we're able to substitute freely and with confidence. That's a factor that should help in post-season competition." 
Indeed the young Irish bench has come on strong in the last several games. Though star Adrian Dantley has been the leading ND scorer in their last four games, the second leading scorer in those games have been Williams. Knight, Batton and Knight again. Toby has also excelled off the boards. topping the Irish in rebound in three of the last six gamt>s . Phelps is t>xpected to rely heavily on his bench in tomorrow's contest with DePaul. and in the reamining regular season and post-season games. 
Dantlt>y. meanwhile, could move up as far as eighth place on the all­tim(' Irish scorer with a good performance against the Blue Demons tomorrow afternoon. A.D. now has 1223 career points and needs but five to pass Dick Rosenthal and gain tenth place. Fourteen points would move him into ninth place ahead of John Smyth and a 33 point performance \\'ould move him past Larry Sheffield into the eighth position. 
Last year Dantley notched 23 points and 15 rebounds against DePaul in the .\CC. but collapsed with three minutes left in the game because of dehydration and had to be removed. This year he will be one of the top l'andidates for the third annual Wendell Smith Award, presented for the last two years to the games outstanding player. Notre Dame's Gary 
Brokaw was the recipient of the award in both 1973 and 1974. The award is presented in honor of sportswriter Wendell Smith who died in November, 1972. 
Next week the Irsh return home for their final two regular-season games. They play the Fordham Hams Tuesday night and close out thz season in a battle with the Dayton Flyers next Saturday afternoon. 
Irish 'battle' SMC 
The Notre Dame's women's basketball team, enjoying a l'Urrent two game win steak will attempt to make it three in a row this Saturday afternoon when they again entertain cross-road rivals St. Mary's. 
SMC won an earlier meeting betw1•en the two dubs. dumping the Irish 53-46. St. Marty's is on a hot
.. 
streak of itw own, having won its 
last three games. 
The game Saturday will be played in the pit at the ACC at 2:00 p.m. 

SKY-HIGH is the way the Irish want to finish their season and head into the NCAA's. Tomorrow's game at DePaul is the first of three to season. 
Phillip Roth's 
Fencers at U of I; meet lllini, UW 
I<:veryone else had a chance to 
find out somt•thing last weekend 
that Notre Dame already knew. 
Bv virtue of the fencers victorv 
o~er powt•rful Wayne st,•.: 
t•veryone l'lse found out that this 
year'sNotn· Daml' team is out 
shooting for a national title. No 
less. 
Wayne State brought into ihe 
match a win streak of 40 bouts 
which the Irish broke, and 
according to head coach Mike 
Dl'Cicco "It gave us the con­
fidence that we need to go on 
from here." Just two days 
before the meet. team captain 
Tom Coye stated "I have no 
doubts ttiat we will beat Wayne 
State. This is one match that 
the team is definitely gunning 
after." 
llowt•ver, the Irish will not 
havl' long to gloat over this 
hard fought victory, in that they 
will face two of the tougher 
teams on the schedule this 
Saturday. The fencers will 
, travel to Champaign-Urbana to take on Illinois and Wisconsin in a triangular meet. 
Last vear the Irish defeated Jllinois ·18-9 to boost their career 
record over the Fighting Illini to a 19-11 mark, making Illinois one of the toughest opponents through the years for Notre J>ame. One the same date last vear. Notre Dame crushed \\'isconsin 20-7 for the Irish's 
(continued on ... 

Smith's team in crucial battle for WCHA playoffslot 
b)' T. E. Mcllale 

Each year at about this timl'. the top eight teams in the Western Collegiate Hockey Association find themselves looking ahead to the post-season playoffs. This season. things are a bit different. The top six teams have playoff IJerths all sewed up. They can afford to look ahead. The seventh place team is Notre Dame, and the Irish can afford to look no further than the challenge they face this w1•ekend. when l'ighth-place Minm•sota-Duluth comes to the -\CC for a pair of 7:30p.m. games. 
The Irish, with 19 WCHA points, hold a slim two-point advantage over the visiting Bulldogs, and with the ninth-place Denver I 'ioneers (15 points l pursuing both teams from behind, the w1•ekend series at the ACC becomt•s something more than a t·onfrontation between two also­rans. Irish coach Lefty Smith isn't underestimating the Wl't'kend's importance. 
"\Vl' need both these games badly." Smith says. "Duluth has bet>n 
playing great hockey since the first of the year. They've probably been involved in more one and two goal games than any team in the con­ference, and with both teams fighting to make the conference playoffs, we certainly won't be taking them lightly." 
Coach Terry Shercliffe's Bulldog contingent has been through enough heartbreak this season to keep Eric Segal writing for a lifetim1·. The Bulldogs have lost 19 conference games by an aggregate total of 25 goals. S1•ven of those losst•s have come in sudden death overtime, in­cluding a pair last weekend at home to Colorado College. Duluth, like the Irish, is a young team, listing only three seniors on the regular roster, and their long suit is a balances scoring attack. Junior right wing Tom Milani leads the way with 20 goals and 27 assists in WCHA play. His .lim·matt•s are center Ernie l'owt•lU7-9l and left wing Monty Jones (11­18l. The second line shows equal balance, with Rod Jones (7-13) cen­tering forWingmanCraig Arvidson (4-8) and Joe Nelson (9-8). 
The third Bulldog line boasts more output yet, with senior playmaker Seott Koidahl <7-16) flanked by Mike Newton <12-16) on the left and Kirk 1\ldvor (5-91 on the right. Freshman center Doug Spoden (13-11) provides additional depth. 
The Bulldog blueline corps does not restrict itself to the checking game, as senior Gord McDonald's 30 point total attest. McDonald's partner on the right side is Ed O'Brien (0-5). Junior Dave Langevin (6-13) is paired with .John Albers< 1-41, while Jim Knapp (3-6) and Bob Joyce 0-3) make up the third duo. 
l<'reshman Hick Heinz has been the bulk of the goaltending duties for the Bulldogs,averaging an t•ven five goals against in 15.3 appearances. St'nior Kt•n Turko I5-4) may see action against the Irish as well. 
The Irish appear to be healthy going into the weekend series. Sophomore defenseman Dave Bossy suffered a lfacial injurylastweekend against Michigan Tech, but should be ready to go aginst the Bulldogs. Likewise freshman right wing Terry Fairholm, who missed last w1•ekend's series in Houghton with a knee injury. Otherwise the forward lines and defensive pairing remain the same,and as usual, both Lenny 1\toher and John Peterson are slated for duty in the .Irish net. 
The Irish close the regualr season at homoagainst the Wiscosnin Badgers next w1•ekend. Both faceoffs at theACCare scheduled for 7:30p.m. 
MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES 

2 FILMS
* 

BOOKSTORE
* 

LIVE FLOOR SHOW
* 
1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET CALL 282-1206 FOR INFORMATION 




