
', 

I. 
server 
-st. mary's college
Vol. X, No.3 Friday, September 5, 1975 
Volume underestimated
Summer storage mishandled 
by Mary Reher Storage was run more cheaplyStaff Rt>porter 
this year than any previous year, Nolan noted. "The company gave Casey Nolan, Student Union us good prices. The most ex­St•rvices Commissioner, cited a pensive item was storing a couch gross underestimation of the at $4.
amount of storage material as the It is doubtful that U.S. Van Lines major shortcoming of the Student of Indiana will again operate aUnion sponsored summer storage summer program. "The reason 
program. 
for this was they lost several 
U.S. Van Lines of Indiana, a thousand dollars in renting storage subsidiary of Bekins Trucking, space and renting so many was unable to handle the storage trailers," Nolan claimed. 
property distribution and Several students received their collection efficiently due to an stored property in damagedunexpectedly large volume of condition. 
material, according to Nolan. Carole Froling stored a wooden 
"They expected to fill about four bookcase which was badly chipped trucks with students' property, but and a deacon bench with a missingthere was so much material they side and 3 broken panels.needed to use 30. "Even the man unloading the 
"The Student Union has trucks said he never saw so manyoperated a storage system for dissatisfied people in his whole 
students for the past three years," life," she said. 
Nolan stated. "But this is the first Some students had stored boob year we had an independent they intended to sell this lear,trucking company handle it. noted a Keenan resident, an it is 
"This is the first year we have now too late to sell them throughhad such problems with un­the Student Union Book Exchange.derestimation of the volume Jorge Ferriero, a resident of 
because the company itself han­Flanner Hall, said the boob be dled the estimation," Nolan said. (Photo by Tom Lose) stored must have been kept in a "U.S. Van Lines had intended to dorm was cited as another wet area because the phote pages 
of all stored property should be "Thirdly, students had to be
keep all the student's property were stuck together and the print 
problem by Nolan. This resulted in returned." hired and paid wages to load and
inside the trucks which would be was blurred.
each truck containing a com­Nolan listed three reasons why unload the trailers. Also, it is
parked in a garage throughout the bination of storage material from Student Union decided to let an difficult to hire students around Another Keenan resident noted summer," he added. "But not all several dorms instead of a independent trucking agency final exam week at the end close of that receipts are not being checked 30 trucks would fit inside the separate trailer for each hall. before the property was returned,
handle the storage operation in­the semester and during the first garage. Therefore the material "Considering the circumstances, stead of working on it themselves. week of the year when everyone is to make sure the owner received 
had to be unloaded and reloaded," the trucking company did a fairly getting settled," he added. his property. Some unloaded
"First, it cost the student union
he added. furniture has been left on the
good job," Nolan commented. several thousand dollars to rent "It was on the recommendation 
The fact that students did not ground unclaimed in the parking
"Storage was delivered to all but the trucks," he noted. of past Student Union members
store their property in the trucks three of 20 dorms in two days, and lot behind Stanford Hall and the
"Secondly, a storage place that a trucking company be used on the designated date for their by Monday I would say 99 per cent needed to be located. this year," he said. trucks have driven away. 

Inauguration set 
for SMC president 
by Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor 
Dr. John M. Duggan will be inaugurated as the eighth president of St. Mary's College in a formal ceremony at 2:30 
p.m. Sunday in O'Laughlin Auditorium. A concelebrated mass, which traditionally opens each academic year will precede the ceremony at 10:30 a.m., with Bishop Joseph Crowley as principal celebrant and homilist. 
Opening the inauguration, University of Notre Dame President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., will present the invocation. This will be followed by a welcome by SMC Vice President for Academic Affairs Dr. William Hickey, and greetings from a representative of each of the following: students, parents, alumnae, faculty, Sisters of the Holy Cross, the Michiana community, the Indiana Conference of Higher Education, and from Vassar College, where Duggan previously served as vice president for student affairs. 
Prior to both the mass and (inaugural ceremonY, student government officers and tf!e senior class, dressed in academic robes, will join members of the College faculty , administration and Board of Regents, and holders of honorary degrees from SMC in academic procession. Administrators and alumni from over 30 Indiana coll~es and universil ies, including Indiana University, Purdue, Vin­cennes, DePauw, and Wabash College will also participate in lhe procession. 
Haydn's Misa Brevis will be sung by the St. Mary's Collegiate Choir at the Mass, according to Sr. Carol .Jackowski, of the Inaugural Committee and member of Campus Ministry. Concelebrants of the mass include: Fr. llesburgh, Fr. William Lewers, Fr. Walter Higgins, Fr. James Zatko, Fr. James E. Kelly, and Fr. Edward Krause. 
During the Offertory of the mass, the presidential ffi(•dallion, which will be presented to Duggan at his inauguration, is to be blessed. 
Dr. Jack Detzl~ chairman of the Inaugural Committee and di~~r or community relations, stressed that Sunday's ceremony will be an "on-campus, in-house, welcome for the new president, by the members of the St. Mary's family." 
On Sunday, September 14, however, a reception, in which members of the South Bend-Mishawaka may meet Dr. and Mrs. Duggan, is planned. 
This traditional welcoming ceremony is being observed for the first time since the inauguration of Fr. John McGrath, predecessor of Dr. Edward Henry, whose resignation the spring, 1974, forced the search and ultimate selection of Dr. Duggan as president of the College. 
The 20-member Inaugural Committ~ was composed of representatives from the Board of Regents, alumnae, faculty, students, administration, parents and Campus Ministry. 
(Schedule on page 4). 


InPIRG moves to So. Bend 
done, such as banks and Chambers toward consumer advocation.
by Joe Gill 
of Commerce. They are being taught byStaff Reporter 
\Molidor stated that InPIRG Professors Manier, Huber, and would publish a booklet explaining Kromkowski.
The statewide base for InPIRG the work that it has done and is There will also be more studies
<the Indiana Public Interests 
planning to do. The center at sponsored by the statewideResearch Group) will be moved Bloomington published a small organization, w)lich would directly from Indianapolis to South Bend, book last year with similar in­invovle the South Bend com­revealed chairperson Lisa Molidor formation. munity.
last evening at a meeting of the InPIRG is hoping to draw more Molidor also announced theNotre Dame InPIRG board. 
interest to their organization from forma£ion of a Project ReviewlnPIRG, the consumer the local South Bend community. Committee, headed by Frankorganization that last year con­The continuation of the faculty Musica, and a Finance Committee, ducted studies-relating to com­liasion and their related courses headed by treasurer Tim Hake.
parative grocery prices, utility were also discussed. Last Spring, In closing, the group commented rates, and was a prominent force three InPIRG-related courses that many new students werein keeping a ceiling on telephone , were offered at Notre Dame for the needed, and that they would berates, is being moved for better fall semester. These will involve Activities Night on
communication between centers, contacted on 
students in research study striving Sept. 16.
and also for the leading con­tribution made by Notre Dame students. 
Last year, Notre Dame con­tributed over $15,000. Once again, the statewide organization has aksed for $15,000 from Notre Dame. Explained Molidor, a senior government major, "We do give $15,000 to the state InPIRG, but we get the money back in the form of projects for student con­sumerism. Last year, for example, the grocery price survey we conducted was very helpful to the students living off-campus." 
The official opening of the state office in South Bend will be Sept. 
15. The first statewide meeting will be held on Sept. 21. 
Rick Warwick, graduate of Ball State and a campus coordinator for Indiana, related another reason for the change. "lnPIRG", stated Warwick, "is the .only effective consumer organization in the North. Notre Dame is actually the first choice, the only choice, for a tightly-knit organization." 
Moiidor also revealed that the state organization was $10,000 in debt from last year, and that Notre Dame and Indiana University at Bloomington would split the debt equally. 
InPIRG is funded by a voluntary contribution of $3.00 from each Notre Dame student who wishes to give. It is also funded by various organizations seeking studies to be 

the observer Friday, September 5, 1975 
warld briefs 
ALBANY, N.Y. (AP)-An FBI agent and a state trooper talked an armed bank bandit into surrendering Thursday after he held nine hostages overnight in a coffee shop a block from the state Capitol. Robert Roiscoe Jr., 33, of Washington, D.C., was led handcuffed to an unmarked police car. One by one, the hostages filed out. 
CHARLESTON, W.Va. (AP) -An official of a strip mine firm in Mingo County said a group of dissident coal miners held several other miners virtual hostages in an effort to keep a mine closed Thursday. The official, who asked to remain anonymous, said the incident occurreed Thursday morning at a strip mine site owned by the SSB Machinery Co. The mine is located about 12 miles nor­thwest of Gilbert. 
LOUISVILLE, KY. <APl -Jefferson County school officials called classrooms calm on the first day of court-ordered school busing Thursday, but the day also saw bomb threats, low at­tendance and demonstrations in which 10 persons were arrested. 
an campus taday 
friday, sept. 5, 1975 
12-10 pm--exhibition, "antique show" ace fieldhouse, .;~dults $1.50 1-5pm--book exchange, "fourth student union book exchange", ~d floor, Iafortune student center 5:15pm--mass & dinner, bulla shed 7, 9:30, 12 pm--fllm, "the stlng,"englneerlng auditorium, $1 9-1 am--dance, "dillon-alumni courtyard dance", courtyard 
saturday, sept. 6, 1975 
12-10 pm--exhibition, "antique show", •cc fleldhouse, adults $1.50 1-5 pm--book exchange, '~fourth student union book exchange" 2nd floor, Iafortune student center 6:30pm--film, "guddl", notre dame India assoclatlonn, library aucl. 
sunday, sept. 7, 1975 
10:30 am--mass, "Inaugural mass for lohn m. duggan, lth president of st. mary's college", o'laughlin aud. 12-6 pm--exhibtion, "antique show,". ace fieldhouse, adults $1.50 , 1-5 pm--book exchange, "fourth student union book exchange,•·· 2nd · floor Iafortune student center 2:30pm--inauguration, "Inaugural ceremony for lohn m. duggan", o'laughlin aud. 8 pm--fllm, "african queen," smc sophomore class and alumnae association, o'laughlin aud., $1 ' 
Prayer meeting slated 
Tuesday evenings at 7:30, a charismatic prayer meeting is held in room 2D of Lafortune Student Center. · 
Notre Dame is the center from which the charismatic renewal became nationally known in the spring of 1967, when this movement was in its infancy. Now the renewal has extended throughout the world, with nearly 4,000 Catholic prayer groups registered at the Communication Center in South Bend, and coun­tless groups of other 
denominations. 
Each year, an international conference held at Notre Dame draws between 20,000 and 30,000 people. This year, an e~cepti~n was/madE' .because of the the Holy Year, the conference met in Rome and featured an address by Pope Paul VI. A charismatic group in South Bend known as the People of Praise recently purchased the old LaSalle Hotel for use as a center. 
Charismatic prayer meetings consist mainly for free, spon­taneous prayer, sharing and singing. The name comes from the reappearance of such New • Testament charisms as the gift of tongues, prophecy and healing. · The essence of the movement, however, lies in the interior renewal of personal lives by reinvigorated faith, love and hope. 
At Notre Dame, weekly prayer· meetings have continued quietly ever since they began in 1967. 

SHERATO~ HOTELS & MOTOR INNS. WORLDWIDE 423 NORTH MICHIGAN STREET, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 219/232-2041 
Six grants givenfD~CTHf~l to Saints Mary's~ INDIANS Arts Commissionl BY ARTHUR COPIT ~ 
Sixgrants,totallingover$10,000, 
have been awarded by the Indiana Arts Commission to Saint Mary's College. to sponsor programs
related to the a_rts. The grants will be used to sup­port a variety of act!vities rangin,g
from a 1975 International Women s Year Series to a Generative 
SystemsWorkshop. Alleventswm ~ri':lg. artists to c~pus to w~rk
IndiVIdually and m groups w1th students. 
The Women's Year Series will include one-day residencies by 4 women: three in music and one in dance. A ceramics invitational, entitled "Hot Times: Five on Fire," will feature teaching pot­ters from the Midwest. 
The Generative Systems Workshop, introduced this past year at Saint Mary's, studies a new field of printmaking, using copy machines. A two weeks' Workshop in Total Communication will in­clude unique aspects of com­munication: mime, puppetry, story telling and sign language. 
Saint Mary's will participate with Indiana University at South Bend and the University of Notre Dame in two dance residencies, jointly sponsored by the Indiana 
ArtsCommissionandtheNational
Endowment for the Arts. The Ballet Repertory Company will be on campus r.·irst semester; the Claude Kipmis Mime 1berater will 
perform and work with students in 
t~;:3kd~:e:..~-times for the various workshops and residencies will be announced at a later date. All performances connected with the funded programs will be open
to the public as well as to students of Saint Mary's College.
saint Mary's College, the oldest 
legally authorized Catholic college
forwomenhaslonghadatradition 
of the arts. 
*:• 
-1 
~ n­lt ~
i ~ ;i 
* ­
* Jf-· --.,* 0
* o
* 
* ~ 
* 
* 
r-~rn;;:;:e;;Ts";:blii;;:d'M;;;d.~
Monday * 
through Friday and weekly during .._ 
~·~
the summer session, except during Jt. 
t. . ..._ ·< 
exams an d vaca oon peroOds. The :: m 
Obsl!rver is published by the ....­
students of the University of Notre ~ "'> 
(Pame a~d,__St. Mary's Ccfe'>e. ~ 
lsubstriptions may be ·pulflased Z ~or 8 dolf;lrs per.· seme!lt,er (16 dollarll Pet year> from The Ob: C 
server,BoiQNotreDamelndiana SecOnd Class postage paid, 
~MQN • SEPT• 8th & TUES. SEPT. 9th~ 
~ 7 10 p m .. 
j@ -~ ~ALLBACKS WED SEPT 1Oth 7 pmPI!
~ • • . ~ 
(~ WASHINGTON HALL LAB THEATER <usf' iron stairs in back) ~ OPEN TO ALL ND & SMC STUDENTS ~ 
._,._,._,,,,._,._,._..._,._,._,.__,._,._...,.._,._,._,._,._,._...._.._-c
.'Pi!CIAl · -·---. ,·­
. c . WEEKEND ROOM aAfE-s FOR 'WOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
·· 
$695 
sa'~
Single occupancy Double occupancy· 
No Notrt Dame identification required, just mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. except horne football game weekends. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North · 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 
.(219) 272-7555 
3 miles North of the Tollroad Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. ~~~r.1d .tt.is. ad. to your parent~ 
*"'"..._....._..1f.¥JfJIJI-1f.¥•Jf•Jf••1f.¥JfJfJf:tf,•JfJfJf•
WELCOME BACK _ _ ; ~ 
,._ * 
TO ~
loO 
~ 
...: Jf-
HOPS N' SPIRITS ~ ~ 
• ;:::: 
~ * 
6 PACK BEER $1 1 * 
-· 5-TW0 KINDS en * 
* 
12 PACK BEER-$2.88-TWO KINDS *­
· * 
1f2 BBL BEER-$22.00-TWO KINDS * 
* 
812 s E. LASALLE SO. BEND 
Ind. ph
one 287•2581 
.... 
•A
.,, 
A
o'"" 
IDII::Z 
_ 
... 
0 
U 
* ~ 
~
* 
Jf­
~ 
...­
~ 
...­
~ 
...­
~ 
;:
* 
IN 46556 ,........-1~ ............~,.........,....,..-1~+·•+JfJfJfJf JfJfJfJfJfJfJI.JI.JI.Jf..Jf..JI.JI.JfJf :+ 
Til 


OUTPOST 
~'.t411I1t coll''-'1 
AT lOOCENTER-MJSHAWAKA 
OPEN TILL 9:00 DAILV 
WELCOME BACK NQTRE DAME STUDENTS STOP BY INDIANA'S FINEST OUTFITTING STORE 
SPECIALIZING IN Backpacking Kaya.king C~npeing ,Cross-country skiing


judge's order to Hughes at the Hotel Xanadu in tne 
Grand Bahamas, where the recluse industrialist is 
reportedly residing. Copies also were sent to the New 
York law firm of Davis and Cox, which represents 
Hughes in Air West matters. 1 
Arelo Sederberg, a Hughes spokesman, said in Los Angeles Thursday night, "I can't comment directly on the law suit . because I haven't seen any documentation on it. But I can tell you-HowardHughes is alive." 
Nadel signed the order last Tuesday, but it came to light on Thursday through publication in the New York Law Hournal, a daily periodical that reports on court matters. 
Bader said that if Hughes failed to appear, he would ask the probate court in Deleware for appointment of an administrator for Hughes' estate. Hughes' cor­porations are registered in that state. 
Bader said he needs to know whether Hughes is alive to insure that the Kurtzes don't run afoul of statutes of limitations for the recovery of property. 
Several suits are pending in federal court in San Francisco growing out of the Air West takeover by Hughes, including an antitrust action brought by the Kurtzes. 
The state suit names the American Stock Ex­change as a defendant on grounds it did not take proper steps to disclose allegedly fraudulent manipulation of stock prices. 
NEW YORK <AP> -A State Supreme Court justice has signed an order requiring billionaire Howard R. Hughes to appear personally in court or face the prospect of being declared legally dead. 
The show-<:ause order was signed by Justice Bernard Nadel. It directs Hughes to appear in court in Manhattan on Sept. 17 at 9:30 a.m. 
The order is an outgrowth of a suit in which two Manhattan shareholders contend that Hughes has been dead for an indefinite period. 
The shareholdrrs,Victor and Ellen Kurtz, are seeking damages from Air Liquidation Co., formerly known as Air West Inc., an airline that was taken over by Hughes in 1969. . 
The suit contends Hughes and some of hiS associates issued "false and misleading" statements designed to induce purchases and sales of Air West securities. 
The Kurtzes referred all questions about the case to their attorney, I. Walton Bader. 
In applying for the show-cause order, Bader asked thai Hughes be required lo lea~e a s~t of.his fin~er­prints with the court for compar1son w1th fmgerprmts on file with the U.S. government. 
A statement submitted to the court contends that fingerprints are necessary to insure that Hughes himself appears. 
Bader said Thursday night he mailed copies of the 
leave from Notre Dame are Professor Charles Biondo of the Music Department, Professor Kwan Kim of Economics, Professor John Meany of the · Education Department, Professor Joseph Scott of Black Studies and Sociology, Professor Douglas Kinsey of Art and Professor William Liu of Sociology and Anthropology. 
Others include Professor PeJer Moody and Professor Paul Bar­tholomew, both of the Government ~art!Ilent, as well as Professor Walter Nicgorski and Professor Timothy LeNoir of the General Program. 
In the Department of Theology, Fr. Joseph Hoffman, Fr. Donald McNeill and Professor Robert Wilken have taken a leave of ab­sence. 
Professor Robert Sladey, Fr. Chester Solet~ and Professor Thomas Werge,t all of the English Department, are on leave from the 
UniversityJ:According to Dean Charles, the 
College of Arts and Letters has formulated no new policies. The only new program is the pilot program for the Values Seminar. 
Dean Joseph Hogan reports that the College of Engineering has not added any new programs nor are there any new policies within the college. 
1 
The Department of Civil Engineering has Professor Ken­neth Lauer as its acting chairman, 
I since Professor Don Linger is on a 
1 
leave of absence. I Returning from a temporary · leave is Professor Nicholas Fiore, 1 chairman of the Department of 1 Metallurgical Engineering. ' Professor Stuart McComas of the 
Departments of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering has also returned from a leave of absence. New faculty in the College of Engineering includes Professors 1 Eduardo Wolf and Arvind Vormer 

by Kathy Mills Staff Reporter 
The colleges within the University have announced various changes in department chairmen, faculty, courses, and programs. 
The College of Arts and Letters has not yet received an official list of its new faculty from the Office of the Provost. However, Dean Isabel Charles has listed the new department chairmen. 
Professor Charles Wilber now he~ds the Department of Economics and Professor Jeffrey Russell is the new director of the Mediaeval Institute. Russell holds the Michael P. Grace Professor­ship of Mediaeval Studies. Both of these appointments are per­manent. 
Professor Edward Goerner is the acting chairman of the Depart­ment of Government. Professor John Oesterle will serve as acting chairman of the Philosophy Department while Professor Neil Delaney is on leave. 
Fr. William Botzum has been named acting chairman of the Department of Psychology, replaciQg Professor John Barkowski who is on leave from the University. Fr. LeOn Mer-• tensotto has taken over as acting chairman in the Theology Department since Father David Burrell will be on a leave of ab­sence for the fall semester. 
The Black Studies Program has as its new director Professor James Stuart. Professor George Brinkley has taken the position of director of the Institute for In­ternational Studies. 
Professor Sheridan P. McCabe has assumed the office of acting chairman of the Department of Education. 
Among those faculty members in the College of Arts and Letters on 
PlAYLANl'_ GO_Lf.J;Jtn'ER
·!"·\ OPEN: dawn 'til 6:00 p.m. ; • · ...... HO~i. ,~ 3 GOLf.COOIS!" ~. ' 
O.l•lng Iango II Hole ML.iat~,.
' . 
0 
LOCATIO US 33 AT UtONWOOO ' 
f • I 
Call I 288-0033 I 
II ko Alit Coli 212-:1366 1715 LINCOLN WAY WT ~..I!ND 
of Chemical Engineering, and 
.MERCHANDISE TO NOTRE DAME
Professor Murty Kanury of Ar· chitecture. In the College of Science, 
.& ST. MARY'S STUDENTS Professor William M. Fairley has!.!'liiiiiMiiiiiifQiiiRau;ii;)iiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiijjj;iiiiic;;;;i;t;i;;Miieiiil
rep)aced Professor Darwin Meade1 
as the assistant dean. Professor Theodore J. Crovello is the new chairman of the ·Biology Depart­ment and Professor Joseph Tihen is a new assistant chairman in th Biology Department. 
Dean David Link of the Law School has announced the ap­pointments of two new ad­ministrators. Mrs. Kathleen Farmann, Law Librarian, has been named special assistant to the dean for strdent affairs. Former head of the Navy ROTC program William McLean is now the assistant to the dean for ad­ministrative affairs. 
New faculty members in the Law School include Professor John Connaughton, who came to Notre 
1 
Dame after completing studies for 
1 his masters degree at Yale 
· University, and Ann Wernz, a 1975 graduate of the Notre Dame Law School. !?< course in franchise law and· a new program in trial advocacy are among the new features of the Law School. Other new courses in­clude "Judicial Proof," "Family Law Practice," and "Food and Drup; Law." 
Dr. Emil T. Hofman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies, and Brother Leo V. Ryan, dean of the College of Business Ad· ministration, could not be reached for reports of changes in their respective departments. 
. 
1 
Student Union presents 
'The Sting' 
with 
· 
Paul Newman Robert Redford 
Tonight 
7:00 pm, 9:30 pm, 12:00 am 1 Engineering Auditorium 
SO YOU'RE BACK! WHO CARES? MAC'S RECORD RACK CARES! '"'ATCH FOR WEEKLY SPECIALS 
A FULL SERVICE RECORD STORE 
288-11~78 NEXT TO RIVER PARK THEATE~ 

---------~--~---~------~~ 
Frjday, September 5, 1975
4 the observer 
For ND graduates 
-~~---­
]ob market tighter than 1974 
FRIDAY , SEPT. 5 
NEW STEREO SOUND SYSTEM 
9 PM TO 1 AM 
Mon. • Cocktail Nite • 2 for 1/2 price 8 • 11 pm
NO CHARGE 
·Tues. • Pool Nite • prizes $1 0 • $5 
DANCE TO THE MUSIC OF 
Wed. • Pitcher Nite • $1.50 
SAHARA 'FROM CHICAGO 
Thu_rs. • Pool Doubles Nite • Prizes 
I 
NDER THE STARS BUT IF IT RAIN 
1
.. Fri. & Sat. • Entertainment Nite 9:00 • 2:00 
IHE DANCE WILL MOVE TO 
RIVER BEND PLAZA
I
'STEPAN CENTER 
109 Woodward Court Behind Wymans a Rasmu-•__...
REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SOLD 
by Don Reimer Staff Reporter • 
Only one-half of all job ap­plicants in the Notre Dame class of 1975 had found employment as of May 1, 1975, according to a survey taken by the Placement Bureau. In a similar survey taken in 1974 this figure was two-thirds. 
The tightening of the national job market is evidenced by the 3.2 per cent increase in the number of 1975 graduates planning to pursue some type of graduate study. This in­crease means that forty-nine percent of la!i,t 1years graduates were headed for post­ba~calaw:_~a~e study. 
uarry Hofmann, who received 
his B.A. in English last spring, 
commented that job hunting was 
"very difficult." Hofman was 
successful in finding employment 
and is presently serving as sports 
editor on a small Arkansas 
:9ewspaper. 
"I did it all on my own," said 
Hofmann, "I put an ad in a 
publisher's magazine and applied 
to various newspapers throughout 
the state since the beginning of my 
senior year." 
Hofmann felt that while his 
major in English at Notre Dame 
helped him find a job in that he 
knew how to write, he explained 
that he didn't go to school with a 
specific job in min<\. He also noted 
•that people in the town in which he worked were quite impressed with Notre Dame, and this fact helped him in his work. 
Hofmann's plans for the future are to continue writing, with hopes of eventually becoming a feature writer. 
Bill Buholtzer, another'75 graduate, now living in St. Louis, was unable to find a job until early 
·--·--·-------•••••-••••••••••••••••••••-••••••••••••~••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••n••••••••-•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••n•••• 
CEREMONY OF INAUGURATION 
PROCESSIONAL !Trumpet Voluntary in D--Henry Purcell 
Organist -Patty Jo Cahalan The National Anthem Invocation -Reverend Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. 
Welcome ••••••• ••• ; ••••••••••••••••• ••••••••• ••••••• •••• Dr. William A. HickeyVice President for Academic Affairs GREETINGS: 
From the students.•••••••••••• •••••••••••••••••••••••••••Miss Joan McDermott From the Parents••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.••••••• Mr. Max Gabreski 
From the Alumnae•••••••••• ~ •••••••••~ ••••••••••••••••••Mrs. Kenneth Westland 
From the Faculty•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Dr. Rita Cassidy Fromthe Community of Sisters of the Holy Cross •••••••••• Sister Kathleen Anne Nelligan, C.S.C. From the Michiana Community •••••••••• ••••••••• •••• •••• Mr. Gerald Hammes From the Indiana Conference of Higher Education••••••••• Sister Jeanne Knoerle From Vassar College...................................... Dr. Alan Simpson 
Installation of the President ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••Sister M. Catherine Francis Ford, C.S.C. Chairman, Board of Regents 
Response of the President •••••••;•••••••••••••••••••••••• Dr. John M. Duggan Benediction ••••••••••••••••••••••••• ••• ••••...............Bishop William Sheridan RECESSIONAL 
Festival March ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••M. B. Seay A buffet and reception for Dr. and Mrs. Duggan will be held onthe north lawn immediately following the ceremony. 
ALUMNI-DILLO--N 1 

COURTYARD DANCE 
FOR, All ND-SMC STUDENTS
I 
August, though he had numerous interviews at the Notre Dame Placement Bureau, he received no offers. "I"looked all last semester and found not even one prospect after twelve to fifteen interviews," Buholtzer !commented. 
During June and July Buholtzer contacted ten employment agencies and was interviewed nearly twelve more times before being hired in early August by an Insurance agency as a salesman. 
Buholtzer felt that his major in MarJr ·~ing was of no great help in finding his job. "Most jobs open : now seem to be sales jobs and in most companies the marketing and sales departments are separate," he explained. 
"An example of the bad situation is that employers do not want to pay the fees to the employment agencies to find prospects," 
SLC elections set for late Septe:mber 
By Paul Waller ' members each from the faculty 
Staff Reporter 
The Student Life Council will holi:l elections in the last week in September for three student positions. 
Since being reduced in size from 24 to 15 members, the council will have five student positions. Two will be filled by Student Body 
President Ed Byrne and a representative from the Hall Presidents Councill. 
The three remaining spots will be filled by representatives from the North Quad South Quad and 
'
off caiJ1>us · finalized, petitions will be The SLC. will also have five \availbble Thursday, Sept. 11. 
and the administration. 
Byrne said anyone planning to run for the positions should start thinking about platforms on the various issues. He cited-the alcohol issue, the use of judicial boards in the halls to handle discipline. and cademic guidelines as major SLC problems. 
He aslo stated candidates should review the Committee on Undergraduate Life report to the Board of Trustees. The Scholastic plans to carry a summary of that report in their first edition. 
Although plans for election procedures have not been Buholtzer commented," therefore someone searching for a job might have to pay a fee of nearly 10 per cent of his salary in order to obtain a job through one of these agen­
cies." . 
_Buholtzer noted that many of his 
friends from Notre Dame are
presently working at extended summer jobs while searching for steady employment. 
In contrast to Buholtzer, math major Gary Milligan had secured a job with a South Bend accounting firm as of November of last year. Milligan commented that he decided to remain in the South Bend area after becoming involved in community activities. 
According to a Placement Bureay survey taken last spring, job confirmation for women was running almost five percent behind 
1 that for men and the women media~ly. The other respondents graduate's average starting listed such plans as work in the salaries were six hundred dollars Peace Corps, military service or less than the overall average. graduate school. Over one-thousand seniors Graduates with jobs reported an responded to the survey, of which average starting salary of $11,714, 38 per cent were planning. to bt:gin an inrrese of over $1,000 above 
the~i~rgc~airieeiriss!iocS:Sciju~pija~t8jioi8n~IBj:m~-~gjl9i!i7~4~.~:888:88888S888:~~!888~
!!! 0'11 

' . -­
) :·····························..··..
r The Senior Club Proudly!
* I , * 
: Announces t s : * *
* * 
~GRAND OPENING 1975 i * *
* *
1 SATURDAY SEPT. 6 i 
: 1 pm-2 am
*
* 
iFeaturing : 1Happy Hour 1pm
*
* 
* 
~ 7&7's 45~ 
* 
:  2  -for  -1 Beers  Spm  -7pm  :  
~  ~  
: **  Dancing  9pm  -1am  : * * 

* Senior Club Cards on sale at the door.~* 
~~··••"!•·~·······....~ .... t 
THE LAW BOARD REVIEW SEMINAR TAUGHT BY PRACTICING ATTORNEYS 
The Law Board Review Center announces a special, weekend Seminar in preparation for the October LSAT. The instructing attorney fully prepares the aspiring law student to maximize his/ her score on the Test. The Seminar provides a thorough analysis of the LSAT, including extensive replication and review of all relevant sections of the Test. This intensive weekend review also includes special emphasis in those areas where scores are most likely to be improved, consideration of test­taking techniques, and materials for additional study. The complete fee is $85. 
IN NOTRE DAME at the Holiday Inn Sat. & Sun., Sept. 27th & 28th Sat.-9AM-3:30PM-Sun.-9AM-6:30PM 
Information and Reservations Call Toll-Free 800-458-2380 
LAW BOARD RfVIEW CENTER 
32 Gramercy Park South 1oro Lawler Street New York, New Vorl-. 10003 ~os Ar.geles. ::: 'lif. 90034 
:
*
* 
. l 4pm : *
* 
* 
~ 
* 
.'!,. .. 
. : ~ ...................· ....-.·.-...-.-..-.-..-.-.-..-.-...........---­

Friday, Seotember 5, 1975 
the observer 
St. Mary's. to promote student government 
by Mary Janca 
introduction of itself to the student 
St. Mary's Editor 
body.
St. Mary's student government According to Student Body steps off the school year with i~s President Joan McDermott, the £irst activity at 6 p.m. Monday m purpose of the,,Night is to give all the Hegina Hall auditorium--­SMC students the opportunity to Student Government Night, and find out who is in student govern-
Jazz auditions set 
The Notre Dame Jazz Bands and on all instruments-saxophones, 
Combos are set to begin their t~umpets! trombones, .drums, 
fourth year of activities providing I plano, guitar and .especlal~y ~n 
an opportunity for students of bass. If further mformah?n .1s 
llolotre Dame and St. Mary's to needed,. contact Father Wiskir­
study and perform jazz music. chen, D1rector ?f NDJB at 7136. 
Auditions will be held on Sunday, . Last year th~ Jazz groups pl~yed 
Sept. 7th at 1:00 pro in Holy Cross m the Colleg1~te Jazz Feshval, 
Hall Annex and interested students presented varwus concerts on 
are invited to bring their in-campus and ~er formed regularly 
struments and to join one or other f?r !he Jazz N1ghts at the Nazz. A 
of the jazz ensembles. Similar progr.am of events is 
There are in the planned for thts year. 
FREE BALLONS given out by a Carney clown. 
Carney '75 scheduled 
, 
ment, what their roles are, and Student government also is beginning in mid-october with , how the· organization functions. planning to get each hall and class Founder's Day, and continuingThus, she hopes "to get as many involved in raising funds for the through the first semester. students in the student body in­proposed l'ecreation facility Speakers for the event will be terested and involved in student scheduled to be built across from released as the information government as possible." McCandless Hall. -becomes available. 
Among the student government Although students have not yet In order to "promote St. Mary'sofficers expected to attend are : been approahced to raise money and spark some enthisiasm Social Commissioner Molly for the building, McDermott stated for istudent government," a McKenna, Judicial Commissioner that the classes and residence halls committee, headed by Kathy
Katie Kearney, Vice President for will be asked tosponsor an event, Coyne has been established, said Academic Affairs Joanie 
with the proceeds going into a McDermott, noting the prevalence Durlacher, Vice President for collective fund, to be donated to the of apathy on campus.Student Affairs Mary Lu Bilek, College for the building's con-Student government, beginningand SBP McDermott. struction. Monday, will also conduct regular 
As this year is the International office hours, primarily during thePay checks Year of Women, student govern-afternoon and early evening. • ment also expects to host a series Thus, the organization hopes to be now cashed of speakers on the subject, more accessable to students. 
,------------------~----­
off-campus W~t Q!nlnnial.
by Phil Cackley Staff Reporter 
~atunkr ~nu.ar
Due to the closing of Gilbert's 


~:_h
Campus Store, University em­ployees will no longer have the convenience of cashing their 
''Enjoy a ~nock or dinner" 
paychecks on camrus. 
~:>:;~:::::;:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:::;:-:;:::-:::::;:;:::::::;:;::::::::::1::::::::::::::;:::-:;::w
The change wil in particular 
:;:; 35 Vil rieties of Pancakes :::·
affect student workers, such as 
}Ct11cken Steak Sandwiches ~:~
Dining Hall employees and RA's who may have difficulty in finding (Friday Nites: Perch Dinners ::: transportation into South Bend. :~:;:::::::;:; ...;:;.;::.;-:-:-:~:·:·:;:-:::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:::::;.;::::6i
While the Bookstore and Cashiers Office do cash checks, .u.s. 31 (Oix1ewnyJ North Your Ho<,l they will not cash University 
(Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards, ND. '50.
paychecks. · 
SOME OF TODA'lS; MOST WANTED
VALUEH
OUSEITEMS AT .SHOWROOM SAVINGS.' 
CATALOG/SHOWROOMS VISIT OUR SHOWROOM AND
Distributors of Fine Jewelry and1Glfts. 
COMPARE OUR PRICES 
Your Headquarters for nationally advertised brands 
• 
Calculators •Desk Lamps 

• 
Typewriters • Hotpots and plates 


.Ste1 eos & . Television Other student requirements Colu"mbia Bi~ycles 
all at famous low 
VALUE HOUSE 
Panasonic 
catalog prices
RE-7740 "THE HASTINGS" FMt AM/FM stereo radio features a 4-channel 
VALUE HOUSE 
amplifier system and 4 separate air-suspen­
' 
sion speaker systems for true 4-channel sound $139.97
,SPECIAL
separation. Quadrupfex'"' Circuitry. 30 watts PMP. Integrated circuitry. Built-in antennas. Stereo selector system. 
_Sug_gested 1 While 
·Retail $209.95 Quantities , last 
2 '-U. FUOT COMPACT REFRIGERATOR 
by1Avanti 
Featu~es temperature control Ice cube troy White baked enamel exterior Optiono~ roll about stand m•ailoble 
VALUEHOUSE 
SPECIAl 
1Mottel 18SRN /(not ex~~tly .as Illustrated) $99.99 
above model evelleble In welnyt end coppertone finish...$109.97 whfie· supplies last 
SHOWROOM HOURS 
MONDAY 9:30 ·8:30 




VALUE HOUSE
·~IES thru SAT ·• SOUTH BEND • 5 16 N. MICHIGAN ST. 
5:30 
• MISHAWAKA-1428 W. 6th ST. 
AI  ~~The ObServer ~ ~ an independent student newspaper Founded November J, 1966 Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief Tom Modglin Business Manager Tom Whelan Advertising Manager EDITORIAL BOARD Rutherford, Managing Editor; Fred Graver, Executive Editor; Jim Eder, Ed,itorial Editor K<'n Girouard. News Editor.-Pat ;~ani! in, Campus Ed1tor; Mary Janca, St. MarysE d1lor K!'n Aradford, Copy Editor.-Bill Brink, Sports Editor, TomO'Ne1l, Features Ed1tor lhr•s Sm1th. Photo Editor Editori.als: 281-8661 N•ws· 29'!,!3:;.!1.!.,;71~S_____!!B~u•:.:;.in:;,••::.":...:2:::.81::.;.-:..:1•..:..;71:______----j Friday, Septembel' 5, 1975  

Change for the Better 
• Several changes have occurred since Truste-es meeting can they ever be im­the students left Notre Dame last May. plemented. There have been changes in people: a Food Coop: St_:.uent Government ef­
new dean of stud~nts; and changes in forts last year to establish a cooperativethings; new lighting around the North for selling food and other essentials at Quad. . reduced prices failed because of lack of' But what haven't changed are the interest. If students, especially off­
issues students must face this year. The campus students, want this service they
changes that have taken place merely will have to work to set up the coop. ' 
point out what needs to be done to solve SLC Reform: The Student Life Council 
the lingering issues at St. Mary's and reduced its membership last year in theNotre Dame. 
hope that smaller numbers would produce more serious discussion ofNew St. Mary;s President: The campus issues. Whether this proves true
inauguration of John Duggan this Sunday will depend largely on the students may prove to be the most significant elected to serve on the SLC. change. His coming may provide some 
Housing:The Universityis commited to much-needed change in student life at St. 
completing a graduate student complexMary's and its relation with Notre Dame. 
by September, 1976. At that time theHe may also provide stability at the migration of women graduate studentscollege that has seen three presidents in from Badin Hall will make room for thefive years. 
undergraduate women. The decision Coeducation: The arrival of 487 fresh­whether to admit more women for next man women raises the totr.l female · year will determine whether anotherenrollment over 1300. And it brings Notre men's dorm is set aside for women. 
Dame to a pivotal decision on the future LaFortune Renovation: _,enovation ofof coeducation. The University has 
the LaFortune Student Center was
promised to decide this year whether to completed this summer in the ballroom
increase women's enrollment above 
and first floor areas. Past plans tocurrent levels. The decision to increase renovate The Huddle and the basementwomen's enrollment will require student Rathskellar have been suspended due toideas and intiative so that the past inadequate funds. The contrast betweenmistakes of our coeducation process may 
be avoided. old and new dramatizes the continuing need for a student center that serves the 
Committee on Undergraduate Life needs of students. (COUL): Last· May a group of students At the beginning of any school year made a series of recommendations to the students look forward with great hope 
. Board of Trustees ranging from co-ed toward the coming year. The events of housing in the Keenan Stanford complex last semester and the summer are good to varsity status for women's sports. cause for student optimism, but a Only by following up these recom­guarded optimism. Only time will tell mendations at the October Board of how appropriate that optimism is. 
aut:rider Mideast SetJiement 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii r:1a r y wiIIs 
There is very good reason for civilian Americans at the Sinai independents. The Saigonmisgivings about the new Mideast observation post. We are told that government was a puppet regime, settlement. It pins everything on such an act commits us to Israel. 
one that we could not improve even Egypt. Egypt is not all of the Arab But we were already committed. 
by changing puppets. It was asworld--it is marginally "Arab" in After all, in the last war we went on ineffective as if wasthe eyes of many of its sister world-wide nuclear alert-was that unrepresentative.
countries. And Egypt is not oil­no commitment? It is better, for 3) Historical: We entered therich, like some of those nations. In us and for others, to have a com­last act of a French colonial with­effect, we have agreed to buy mitment spelled out and given a drawal in Indochina. In Israel, we peace on both sides--by sup­vivid symbol. Call the civilians helped the UN set up a fresh order planting Russia as Egypt's prin­stationed there "hostages" if you of things.
cipal patron, and by upping our· will; they are hostages to reality, 4) Geo-strategic: The Israel ante as Israel's patron. and no one should resent being connection is part of our European
Does that automatically throw bound to that. 
defense system, our strongestall the regions' other countries The other argument is Senator foreign power base. American
together as putative Russian Mansfield's, that we are repeating presence in Southeast Asia was as
clients in American clothes. Vietnam in a consignment of useless as it was difficult toPerhaps. Already Jordan has "advisers" to a foreign country. sustain.
shifted off from Israel and toward That is the least defensible 5) Moral: the UN set upSyria.' It is not only an expensive 
argument of all. Nothing is m~re territory for both the Arabs and the deal, but a dangerous one. It will important now--for opposmg Hews after World War II. Thebe used to prevent the most im­Israel's excessive demands, as Arabs opposed that arrangement,portant settlement of all, that with well as defining its just ones--than and we supported it. We have used the Palestinians; and it will to insist that our support of our support to contain Israel--e.g., 
strengthen those blocking that Jerusalem bears no resenblance to in the Suez attack, or when we
settlement, the Oriental Jews of our efforts at ruling Vietnam from insisted on non-preemption in 1973.
Israel. 
a dubious Saigon base. Israel We owe those we have containedI think it is a bad deal. Still, differs from Vietnam on count support within their proper limits. 
Secretary Kissinger has precluded 
after count: The problem is not an Americanother deals by his maneuvering; so 
1) Military: Istael has the best presence in Israel. The problem is we are presented with a cruel army in the world, man for man, the unrecognized demands of
choice-this deal, or no deal. It will 
weapon for weapon. South Viet­Palestinians in Israeli territory.be this deal. nam had anoarmy no better than it Our support for Israel must be
Once that is said, I find no merit deserved be--which no henceforth, in­
to meant coupled, within the arguments most often used 
army at all. . creased pressure to make Israel
against the settlement. Each Political: 1s a meet
2) Israel the moral demands of the concentrates on the stationing of vociferous democracy of prickly other refugee people in tlie area. 
seriausly, falks August Briefing art: buc:h\Yald 
WASHINGTON--Whenever I go away on vacation I have to get briefed when I get back to Washington on what I missed. The man I depend on to catch me up on things is Doc Dalinsky, my phar­macist, who keeps up on the news when he unstacks the papers every morning. 
"What happened while I was gone?" I asked him. "We sold 10 million tons of grain to the Russians which means the 
price of bread is going up in this country this year.""Oh!" I exclaimed. "It was a big mistake," Dalinsky told me. "How's that'?" "Well, the original idea was to sell the Soviets 10 million tons of 
New York City bonds. But somebody in Washington got his signals 
mixed and sold them the grain instead." "Why would the Soviets want New York City bonds?" "Because several of the banks in New York said that if the city 
couldn't sell them someone would have to eat them. It was Mayor Beame's hope that the Russians would rather eat his bonds than somebody else's wheat." 
"But it didn't work out that way'?" · "No. The Soviets insisted they wanted grain so New Yorkers have to eat their own bonds for breakfast." 
"What else happened'?" I asked Dalinsky. "Let's see. Oh, yes. The United States is ending its trade curbs 
against Castro, and we'll probably recognize Cuba soon." "That's a switch," I said. · "Well, the thinking is that, tying to knock Castro off 24 times 
and failing, the only thinbg left to do was open diplomatic relations 
with him." "How does the Mafia feel about it'?" I asked Dalinsky. "They were kind of hurt that they weren't consulted, but I must 
say they were magnanimous about it. One of the heads of the families said, 'We have a saying in the Cosa Nostra: If you can't kill 'em, join 'em."' 
"What else is going on'?" "Kissinger's in the Middle East," Dalinsky said. 
-"That's not news," I said. "The price of gasoline is going up." "That's not news." "We're g.oing back to double-digit inflation." "That's not news." "Nixon said he did nothing wrong." "That's not news." "Liz Taylor and Richard Burton are back together again." "That's not news," I said. "Yes it is. Because this time they say it's forever." "Forever?" "That's what their press spokesman said." "What a story! They really said forever'?" "I'm not making it up," Dalinsky said. "Is there anything else I should know'?" "Well, are you sitting down'?" "How can I be sitting down'? I'm standing here talking to you.""All right. Betty Ford revealed to Myra McPherson in McCall's 
magazine that she and herhusband have given up the White House 
tradition of separate bedrooms for the President and his wife." I whistled, "That's news." "And she also said if anyone ever asked her how often she slept 
with her husband she would say 'as often as possible.'" "Damn," I said. "I knew I shouldn't have gone on vacation." 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
YOU KNO«<, ITS A SHAM& 
I aNT 7HINK IZL EVa<. 
RJI?/3£T THE AF7C/<.t()ON {)()N
7HAT etli/C5 HA5 NOTAl-WAYS 
8WJPARTOF OUR. (JmCIJUJM. 
0/?IJPP&lJ BY MY OFRC/3 71J ASK 
M& A CKIESTION. "PROFSSOR H
~ I'M 7HINKING IN IW<TICIILAR 
II& /N()(JI!?£1?, •JIJST HOP/
: OF tt/HEN /JONAW SCGRE7T/

Night Editor: Val Zurblls Features: "Bo!)ne", Liz Donovan Sports: Ernie Torriero, Tom Kruczek, Bill Brink
Asst. Night Editor: Tim O'Relley Typists: Howard Halle, Anne
Layout Staff: Liz Donovan, Bob Piller, Jim· Swartz, Maureen Peeler, Jim Landis Flynn, Bob Massa, Jeannette 
Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz Martens, Marti Hogan Night Controller: Howard Halle Day Editor: Maurenn Flynn, 
Late Typist: Howard Halle­Margie lrr Pciture Screener: Diddler-Copy Reader: Fred Herbst Ad Layout: Pat Russell, Mike Editorials: John Amantea Miller, Joe Graif, Tom Whelan 
....
------------~-------------------------------~-------------·-----~-~-~~ 
Letters to a Lonely God 
the god who seemed an tltheist 
reverend robert griffin 

In my twenty~ne years as a priest, I have meantime, we cannot continue to be friends said or done a number of things that were as before. St. Paul warns the Christian <or seemed) ill-advised, dumb, wrong, about being unequally yoked to the brother foolish, out of place, or even a little wicked. who grieves the Lord." Sometimes I've been rebuked for my folly: Since that day, my former best buddy and a tersely worded note from the Bishop; a I have seen each other only three times, stern. yet gentle phone call from the when we have nodded our heads as we Provincial reminding me that my behavior passed on the sidewalk. is offensive to the traditions of the Church or A couple of years ago, a Notre Dame of my religious community. Would I mind student, decently Catholic, came to talk cleaning up my act, straightening out my with me about his _girl friend. "She has life, and flying in formation with the rest of become a member of the Charismatic the flock? I don't like having my knuckles Renewal group," he said. "She's been told rapped; but I recognize that by my Catholic she must bring me into the charismatic baptism and my priestly ordination, the group as a member. Otherwise, if I don't Bishop and the Provincial have claims over become charismatic, she isn't supposed to me as my fathers in Christ. They have the date me, even though we are in love. They right to correct me; but (have the duty of tell her that dating an unconsecrated respectinJ;l them. PIPPSe _ understand, Christian would be offensive to the Holy 
thl•n, that the mood of today's column is not Spirit." onl' of groaning against the legitimate uses Possibly the young man misunderstood of authority in the government of the what the girl was saying; maybe she acted ('hurd• on her own impulse to pressure her lover 
In the young years of my life,. I ~as into sharing the charismatic faith. I'm in no baptized as a convert to the Catholic faith. mood to make ugly judgments on whether Predictably, some of my friends at the Christians, either Baptist or charismatic, Baptist church did not react e~­can be narrow-minded. What appalls me is thusiastically to the news that I was now, m the spiritual tyranny that good people try to a formal way, a fallen-away Protestant. exercise in the name of Christ. Among those Baptists, there was one friend The sincere, committed Christian says especially I was sorry to lose: he was an old presumptuously to his neighbor: "This is school chum and a best buddy since what God wants you to do: read the Bible." childhood· in later years, he was ordained Or. "say the rosary for the salvation of as preach~r in the Baptist ministry. Russia."' Or, "wear the green scapular on 
He said to me: "You have deeply of­ruesd~:~y, and the brown one on Saturday." 
fended God by becoming a Catholic. I trust Or, "be baptized in the Spirit; speak in 
that Christ will someday draw you back, but tongues . If you don't follow the practice 
it may be only after great suffering. In the that has been efficacious for me and my 
,.----------freshrnan year-----~ 

reflections of a freshman 
by joe gill 
And so we have come...colorful, diver­through the campus, playing the N.D. fightsifit>d, from every corner of the nation, and song, yelling and shouting as they marched. 
t•ven some from outside. We are perhaps an And although I'm a freshman, and maybe 
apprehensive group of young men and bl'causl' I'm a freshman, it did send those 
women. anxious yet scared, energetic yet proverbial "chills" up my spine.
subdued, ready to challenge the world, but. 
I asked directions, too (maybe if I'd asked 
Many of us were the best back home: more often, my feet wouldn't be this sore! l, 
t>ditors. presidents, chairman, leaders and though I felt stupid asking, not one 
athletes, valedictorians...Life's strangE upperclassmen refused an answer, and I 
l'ircles of fate has returned all of us, once · hink most secretly sympathized. I had 
again, back to the beginning. How ironic ~xpected a sneer; instead there was a smile., 
Ihat after journeying to "Emerald City" in 1recall eating in the dining hall forthefirst, 
Ihe land of Oz, we still must capture the lime, and being greeted by those marvelous. 
witch's broom! How frightening to realize ladies at the door. Warm and friendly, they 
that our BMOC-status back home is here but gave me a feeling of belonging. 
a nam<>, useless. in "killing witches". It is 
timP once again to justify our existence: to Amidst all this, there was humorous 
the people back home, to our parents, but irony. Attending two "College Mixers" 
mostly to ourselves. having prepared for the honestyanclsincerity 
that belonged to a college atmosphere, and 
Corny, you say? Not really. Up to this watching the girls enter in "herds", afraid 
point in time, our lives have been a series of lo lose sight of their girlfriends, and even 
"steps" leading to the next. I'm not saying more amazedly, watching the boys do the 
lhese steps weren't hard. No, rather the same. It was nice to know that high school 
opposite; four years of entering manhood or wasn 'I really that far behind. 
womanhood is indeed a very long stairway. . 
But always, the next step was clearly While . dozmg off. to sleep each night, I 
outlined. Now, though, the next step is not onc.e agam was re~mded of those days. A 
so clearly visible. And if we do happen to res1dent of.an adJacent hall, whose ?arne 
look back las 1 offtimes have) what we do shall remam anonymous, but to wh1ch a 
see is of little help to us. How discouraging. proper appellation might be . "Zoo", has 
expressed his rather uncomplimentary 
What then is the "next step?" feelings a.bout my. hall in words that only 
I<'or me it has been a search for the real truck dr1vers, h1gh school or college 
"Notre D~me." students co.uld underst~nd! 
It k d f h 
The spring and summer of 1975 brought was m a re res mg. · · 
many insights into the Notre Dame Com-. . 
munity: from a brother <who never Notr~ Dame,. then, IS many, .ma?y, thm.gs, 
attended N.D.) but whose affinity with the ~nd I.w•l~contmue my search m d•~cove~mg 
school rivals that of the legendary George Its dlffeiJ . .fll facets. What I might. fmd, 
Gipp, from letters procaliming th~ though, cvuld. ?.e ?etter sum~~d up m the 
"tradition" of Notre Dame from alumni words of the Wizard of Oz • as he ad-
from friends, actually, fr~m just about dre~sed the "Scarecrow" on his lack of 
everyone I spoke to. Notre Dame was, to brams: 
them, a rainbow, and I had the chance to 
capture the pot of gold. I wasn't sure that I Why, anybody can have a brain! It's a very 
wanted to. . . ml'diocre commodity. Every pusillanimous 
,crt>ature that crawls through the earth 01 
And so I came, very skeptical, very slinks through slimy seas has a brain! Back 
doubtful, almost not wanting to believe. I wht>rl' 1 come from, we have universities, 
walked this campus up and down. I gazed at lst>ats or great learning, where men go to 
d 
the glittering Golden Dome. I knelt an becoml' great thinkers, and when they come 
prayed at the Grotto, a place where even out. they think deep thoughts, and with no 
the most irreligious became immersed in morl' brains than you have. But! They have 
wonderment. I walked around the lakes, one thing you haven't got---a diploma!!! 
smiling at the ducks, smiling inside. I 

tared agape at the magnificent mural on It's all very simple, isn't it? 
,1 he library. I heard the band marchi,,g, friends, you are not fulfilling God's plan for saving the world. Souls will perish if you are too stiff-necked and stubborn to follow the will of Christ." 
To hear them tell it, these zealots operate under the most heavenly auspices when they\ challenge you to be the newest sun­beam of Jesus. They have read it in Galatians. They have learned it from children who chatted with God's Mother in a meadow. St. Margaret Mary has heard the truth in a mystical vision. I am left won­dering: If God wants me to be a Baptist, why doesn't He tell me to be a Baptist? How come all my Baptist friends know that I should be a totally-immersed, Testament­carrying, Jesus-shouting fundamentalist, while I alone am left deceived by the in­solence of Renaissance popes? 
If I am told by a Jesus-pusher that he has the credentials of command in the army of Christ, then there are no decent arguments I can resist him with. My dull opinions are self-delusions; my soul is a possum in the traps of Beelzebub. I think that the greatest evils done in the name of religion have come from the guru, the teacher, the saint, the priest, the confessor, the superior who, most sincerely, has elected to play God over the human conscience: "Do as I say, or risk being damned." Theirs is the zeal that brings heretics to the stake, and unbelieverto the sword. 
Few of these mouthpieces for the will of the Creator seem like fiends or fanatics; most of them are really very nice people. I know a gentle 'priest who dreams up schemes for the honor of Our Lady, like insisting that the Miraculous Medal should be hung around the neck of every '· native son on the dark soil of Africa. If his sup­porters argue that maybe there are native sons who don't want a Miraculous Medal hung · around their necks; and anyway, medals cost money; who's, going to pay for ten million Miraculous ones? The priest piously answers: "It is Our Lady's will." You can't work with a priest who makes private deals with Our Lady to give her absurdities, when both the priest and Our Lady leave such whimsical details as the financing to be worked out by underlings. Not many Catholics choose to be this priest's underlings any more. You can't argue with a boss who tells you your real quarrel is with the Queen of heaven. 
I know of a monk who serves as spiritual director to a 1married couple. He tells them they must break up their marriage, so that both the husband and wife can enter the 
1 religious life. The husband objects: "We · still have children at home whom we must clothe and feed." "God takes care of all his sparrows," the monk replies. 
The husband said to me: "How can we argue with a saint who is so close to Our ~!fi~~~~ she has told him the secret of 
There is a woman in New York, a self­professed nun, who is writing a book called Rabboni. It is the story 0'! Christ told as the autobiographical experience of Mary Magdalene.. The book, the author says, will be a spiritual classic. The trouble is, the author has no money to live on. Working at a job, she says, would interrupt the flow of reflective inspiration needed for her 
composition. 
"I prayed to Jesus, my Spouse, and He told me to come to you for help," she said, meaning by that, I guess, that He wanted me to pay her rent. Frankly, I think that the 
plij:llishing of Rabbonl would add a new horror to religion. "Go back and tell Jesus I don't have any more money," I said. I had already given 
her over eighty dollars. 
"What am I supposed to do?" she said. 
"God wants this book to be published. The world needs this book, but I can't do it by myself. I'm starving to death." 
"I only know the non-mystical ways of surviving," I said, "like working for a living." 
"If you and the people of this parish won't help me," she said, "I know of other ways of getting the money." 
Naturally, she knows of other ways, I thought to myself, or she would be too in­uocent to be writing the hagiography of a hooker· 
"I would scorn to use those. ways," she said. I was grateful for her scorn. It made 
me feel less guilty for not giving her more 
money; at least I hadn't driven her into the streets. 
One of our burdens as religious people is recognizing when God authentically speaks to us. I don't think His word comes to me through · ; the street preachers, or through the sidewalk prophets and subway evangelists who have psyched out the secrets of the Deity with a brashness that 
makes a merely infallible pope seem about · as knowledgeable of eternity as the village agnostic. I don't think that the cursillo, the marriage encounter, or the Charismatic Renewal are irresistible movements of the Spirit that should bring the whole Church to its knees. I don't think I will be saved by the witness of the Bibliolatrist who spouts Scripture at me. I am nervous with anyone who wants to be my spiritual guide; I am afraid I may be only substituting his hangups for my own. I have never had a director or confessor who has wanted to :take over as a replacement to my con­science, but I have heard that this kind of ·bullying goes on. Sometimes, if I am weary . or sick or igporant or confused, it may be very wise to trust a confessor with the control of my conscience, but it should be because I have chosen to trust him; not because, in moral judgments, he has in­sisted on distrusting me. ti am not forgetting the rightful, traditional role of the conh..>sor as teacher and healer; but ultim.ately: I must be faithful to my insights, not h1s. Its all a very tricky business, and I'm n?t writing an essay on the theology of conscience.) .The mind that I have may no.t be a s.ai_nt's 1mind, nor a theologian's mmd; bu.t It IS ~he only mind God has Igiven me to thmk With and choose with. , must trust Him to furnish me with the graces needed for virtue, if I try to be open to the 
truth. 
There is a story told of Cardinal Newman present at a dinner where someone Roma~ proposed a toast "To the Pope". The toast, which may sound today as harmless as a similar salute to the coach or the 
~ queen, was loaded· back then in the Nineteenth century when the doctrine of papal infallibility was being discussed as 
definable. Newman, responding to the toast, replied carefully: "to the pope, yes. .But first of all, to conscience." 
As a Catholic, I try to remember the role of the Church as Mater and Magister, as -teacher and mother. Yet, I have a sense of the damage foolish men have been guilty of when they confuse their passion for ab­solutes with the authority and experience of the teaching Church. Only the pope has been ddined as infallible in his ex cathedra judgments on matters of faith and morals. Yet everywhere in Christendom, there are small-time, grand inquisitors who would crown themselves with stolen tiara, and set up judgment seats for the trial of heretics. But no dogma is everall of truth ·no doctrine is the whole of reality, and' there are heresies more holy than the articles of creeds. 
I was raised in a Christian home , and taught to tell right from wrong; with the coming tof age:, my reverence grows daily for my parents' wisdom. The Church is also my home, as well as my mother; in the daily discoveries of life, I am constantly recognizing her truth. I recognize it more today, perhaps, than I did yesterday. Tomorrow, hopefully, I will be more grace­filled than I am today. But wouldn't the Church be a dreary home, more like a prison, if I were never allowed to doubt any of it, ever at all? I am not asking for the right to doubt, because I don't really have to: the mind is made to wonder and wander. 
You can't absolve me from the obligations of faith, anyway. Just don't presume that God and I can't work it out, if it is essential 
.to my faith and salvation. Don't doubt that He will, in all the needful ways, keep me close to the sources of life. 
There are some strange, beautiful lines that Chesterton has written: 
In that terrific tale of the Passion there is a distinct emotional suggestion that the author of all things <in some unthinkable way) went not only through agony, but through doubt. ..When the world shook and . the sun was wiped out of heaven, it was not at the crucifixion, but at tne cry from the cross: the cry which confessed that God was forsaken of God...let the atheists themselves choose a god. They will find 
(only one divinity who ever uttered their isolation; only one religion in which God seemed for an instant to be an· atheist. 
' Sometimes it often helps to remember that at the beginning of the ordeal that tempted the religious faith of Omnipotence, 
Jesus Christ was tried for heresy by the 
highly orthodox, strictly monotheistic priests of the most high Lord of heaven. ,-;; all in their religious tradition, these priP.sts knew best, they supposed, how the ca: . penter's son was grieving the Father they could not call Abba; Who kept His eternal silence while His worshippers, to avenge His honor, plotted a death that would have left God alone and childless. 

-------------~-----------~----~----­
Friday, Sepfe!J1ber 5, 1975
the observer 
•' 



Crosson named to O'Hara chair 
Dr. Frederick J. Crosson, who recently left the position of Dean of the University of Notre Dame's College of Arts and Letters, has been named to the John Cardinal O'Hara Chair in Philosophy, it has been announced by Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president oi the University. 
Father Hesburgh said Crosson, who is currently on a study leave will also head a newly established Center for the Philosophy of Religion within the Department of Philosophy. The proposal to couple the endowed professorship, announced by the University in 1971, with the formation of a center to build upon existing faculty 
department, Father Hesburgh said. Crosson was also recom­mended for the dual position because "both in his person and in his interests he represents the ideals of Christian philosophy which should be the informing I spirit of such a center," Notre 

1 Dame's president said. ,
~he ~epart~ent s ann~allecture senes m phi~?S?PhY will also .be renamed th~ ,?.Hara PerspectiveLect~re Series m honor of the 12th president ?f ~ot~e Dame who 
headed the mstltut10n from 1934 to Dr. Frederick J. Crosson 1940. 
strength in the philosophy ot : The new Center, Father religion was made to the Ad-Hesburgh said, would hope to 
Few changes planned 
Ombudsmen start again 
by Shawn Scannell Starr Reporter 
The Ombudsman Service will 
reopen Monday under the leadership of Matt Cockrell. 
The organization of the service is essentially the same as last year, Cockrell s<Jid. 
"There a steering committee comprised •f four people who do the policy making. This com­miltee I. •ndles the serious problems IJ 1! come up in regard to policy," ht ,aid. 
The fou are Cockrell, Tom Gibbons, IV!··lanie Connell and Pete 
G~:~ha:r~e~, •..: also s~ven divisions 
which have •een outlined to handle 
certain 1reas--information, • • ~ 
oper~tion~ community relat.ions,
special p• •Jects and services, i~ter~al " fairs, . program co?r­dmatwn an Spectal Works ActiOn Tactics <S': ATl." There ar. three major projects of concern the Ombudsman this year, acco. •ing to Cockrell. ''The m1• important of these is the teleph service. Its success depends good quality in­formation ·livered promptly to the caller. .e said. Regular hours of telepho: service, 10 a.m. to 5 
p.m. Monl;'ly through Friday 
. ' 
b~gm on M •nday, and thes~ h?urs wtll soon be extended to m1dmght. 
Cockrell noted that emergency calls dealing with heal~h or psychological problems will be referred to competent help on campus. 
The second project will be the publishing of the Ombudsman Resource Manual This manual is published for ad~inistrators a~d student leaders who can aid 
Registration time extended 
The Early Childhood Develop­ment Center will extend its registration period indefinitely until enrollment is full, according to Mrs. Terri Cosik, the Center's director. 
The center, which provides child care for the families of Notre Dame and St. Mary's students, staff, faculty and alumnae, has expanded its facilities and is located on the St. Mary's campus. 
Both part-time and full-time child care are provided, as well as a special Development Program for children aged three to five. 
Information on fees and registration procedures can be obtained by calling Cosik at 284­4150 or 291-3875. 
mmistration by a committee of the 1 sponsor regular conferences and to 
students with referral advice. The third project will be assisting in SLC elections. 
Cockrell said the "Quickie" bus and Darby's Place, initiated by the Ombudsman Service, will be run this year by the Student Union Social Commission. 
"The basic purpose of the Ombudsman Service is to provide ready information to the Notre Dame community. If our other services don't prove to be sue­cesses and the telephone seryice is, the Ombudsman will be a sue­cess." 
. Art gallery to op"en
h 1 ­
acU tl works
· Wl t 
On Sunday, September 7, 1975 at 
2:00 a.m., the Notre Dame Art
1
Gallery in O'Shaughnessy Hall officially opens its 1975-76 exhibition calendar with a display •of recent faculty works by the Notre l_)ame Art Departme~t. !'> receptiOn for the public · IS scheduleq from 2:QO until.4:30 p.m. All of the W?r~s on view we~e cre?t~~ spectflcally for thls exhibitiOn. Each faculty member stresses th~ _most recent 
developments m his work. 
Included are paintings and et­chings by Matthew Zivich and 
Carol Ann Carter. DQ!!glas Kinsey has completed a large ruptyeli and Moira Geoffrion's most recent work is a sixteen foot hanging sculpture in vinyls. Richard Stevens is continuing to pursue differentdirections in photography, returning to work in black and white. Bi~l Kremer has.created a new senes of vertical and 
horizontal structures made of 
wood and canvas, and Robert. p.m., With no admissiOn charge. 
IF YOU WANT THE BEST : SPAGHETTI, PIZZA or SANDWICHES, THEN WHY NOT GET IT? 
YOU CAN AT: 
GIUSEPPE'S 
713 E. LASALLE 
so: BEND PRIVATE PARTY ROO CARRY OUTS 233-0951 


THE POSTER}-f.t.LACE 
Cockrell said 40 freshmen hav been recruited as members :..nd tfl'at more are encouraged to volunteer. "What is involved is about an hour a week spend at the phone taking calls and giving out information, but many can do more." 
Other projects the Ombudsman has worked on this year are the revision of the campus mail system. 
· A column in the Observer call 
Action Express will also be written 
to give information to the students. 
Lea er continues to explore the .possibilities of color and texture in­a series of-twelve canvases. Rev.' Anthony J. Lauck C.S.C. features a ceramic sculpt~re while Rev. James Flanigan, C.S.C., Chairman of the Art Department, is exploring the potentials of ceramics inhis sculptural work. Fred Beckman has.d~s.igned the installation and is e~h1b1tmg some new plexiglass Pieces and pon Vogl is displaying several umque experiments in 
form and material. 
. , . . . 
, .This year s ?,xhibttlon schedule Will. featur.e Everett McNea.~, · 1 ~r~tst, D~s1~ne~, and C:ollector , 
VI~tor Htggms.. An I.ndiana Bo~p ~rlist ~orkmg In Taos 
Photoreahsm .f~?~. the Nanc) Hoffman Gallery ,\ Ph~~ograph~ ~ Wal,~er Eveans •and Thoma~*':n Art G ll · t th publi~ daily f:o~rio :1~ ~~~ t~ 4:4~ k d 1·00 t 4'4"
0
p.m., w~e en s · · ~.m. · " 
,..
* 
* 
~ 
,.. 
.... ,.. ,.. SALARIED
•
'*,..
.. 
:FOR TYPISTS
..
.. 
~ 
1 


MUST 
attract visiting scholars in the philosophy of religion to spend all or part of their sabbaticals at Notre Dame. Library holdings and a monograph series would be other concerns of the Center. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1953, Crosson received his doctoral degree from the University in 1956 after earlier 
st.udy at the Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C. He is a specialist in Phenomenology and existentialsim and has written books and scholarly articles on the 
-

. relationship of computers ana intelligence. He was chairman of the General Program of Liberal Studies from 1964 to 1968 and also served as associate director of the Philosophic Institute for Artificial Intelligence. 
He was appointed the firt lay dean of Notre Dame's largest college in 1968 and served until his resignation last May to return to teaching. When he returns to Notre Dame in the fall of 1976 he will also assume the editorship of the Review of Politics, a quarterly published the University. 
ID>~3]~J~J NOW 
MISHAWAkA AVENU! AT 10TH 
APPEARING 

FOR TIMES 
288 84.88

PHONE . ­
~r************"~~~~*1r*1"•~dR;t;l~h?MR:!Rii*ilnTrlh'tift*H;Rrinm~n~~ 
\** ..** 
** THE OBSERVER .. 

AND ,LATE NIGHT STAFFi. 
*
* 
*
*
TYPE 55 WPM *
* 
:* * 
* 
has ** 
*
*
*
*




POSITIONS *
* 
** 
*
* 
100 11 x17 POSTERS only $10.00 
*..

FOR INFO CALL HOWARD 
* 
INSTY PRINTS 
** 
*
* 
203 N. MAIN ST. 


234-8952 283-8661 *
* 
SOUTH BEND . 289-6977 *
*
* 
~---------------------..~~------~~..,~******************************************************* 

------------~---~----------~----­
da ·Costa Gomes plans to visit Soviet Union 
LISBON, Portugal <APl President Francisco da Costa Gomes, a key figure in the growing confrontation over Communist influence in Portu­gal, will make an official visit to the Soviet Union later this I month, it was learned Thurs­day.
Informed sources said Costa Gomes still counts on being the first Portuguese chief of state ever to visit Russia, despite th~ 
Mail pickup starts soon 
Campus mail service will begin th1s Monday, Septe!fiber 8. 
The serv1ce, run oy the Stucent Union Services Commission offers mail delivery on the Notre Dame campus free of charge. 
The Ombudsman Service reorganized the service for Ute Student Unicn over the summme,·. Starting Monday, all mail .Placed in any of the four yellow mallboxds around the campus will be pickoo up between 11 pm and midnight by Drew Damik. Danik will take the mail to Alumni Hall where it w•ll be sortM. The next morning, th~ hall mailmen will stop at Alumni and pick up the mnil for their halls. 
With this system, mail will be · delivered the day after it was mailed. 
The Om budsman Service reminds students that no stamps are required for delivery, which covers all points on the Notre Dame Campus. 
SMC social scene to feature foa1n , flicks and free shuttle 
By Marjorie lrr Staff Reporter 
St. Mary's Social Commissioner 
Molly McKenna released 
yesterday a tentative schedule of -upcoming events for the fall. 
The commission will start the 
season with the film, "Pappilon", 
starring Steve McQueen and 
Dustin Joffman. It will be shown 
Sept. 19 and 20 in O'Laughlin 
Auditorium, Moreau Hall. 
Oktoberfest, tentatively 
JlCheduled for OCtober 15-17, will 
highlight that month. 
Plans for a four-day-long Barbra 
Streisand film festival, beginning 
on Oatober 20, have been com· 
pleted. Another festival featurmg 
. silent films and a "Late skate on 
the Lake" are being scheduled for 
November. 
The "Quickie Shuttle". will rur. 
agam this year as a joint effort 
between the SMC and ND social 
commissions. Details are being 
worked out and a schedule will be 
· Sun 12:15 pm Fr. BUI Toohey, C.S.C.
released soon.  
WELCOME TO ' &S_T.  NOTRE DAME MARY'S  
FROM THE CREWI AT:  






Uhe WinJjammer 
HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES 

McKenna noted that Social Commission problems in recent years have resulted from schedule conflicts. 
· "Sometimes there are just too many events scheduled for the , same day. This year we're trying 
' to  interrelate  more  with  SMC  
Student  Government  and  other  
organizations  as  well  as  the ND  

Social Commission to eliminate the conflicts," she said. 
The Social Commission will be in 
SUNDAY MASSES 
(Main Church) 
Sat. 5:15 pm  Fr. Robert  Griffin, C.S.C .  
Sun 9:30 am  Fr.  Tom  McNally,  C.S.C.  
Sun 10:45 am  Fr. John Gerber, C.S.C.  

persistent threat of an armea clash at home between Commu­nists and their opponents. 
The sources said the presi­dent is scheduled to go to Mas­cow Sept. 22-26 and visit War­saw afterward Sept. 26-29. 
They said the president wish­ed the visit to be a success and was fearful the Portuguesecrisis could cause the Soviets to postpone it. Delay in an official announcement of the trip was attributed to Soviet concern over the outcome of the crisis. 
Costa Gomes, meanwhile, was trying to appease senior army officers determined to roll back Communist influence -by force if necessary. At the same time, he was privately defending Communist participa­tion in a new coalition govern-
Graduate students meet 
The major agenda items of the \ meei.;ngs will suosequently be bela first regular meeting of the on Thursdays between 12:15 and Graduate Student Union <GSUl 1 1:00 p.m. in the Advanced 
meeting on September 3 were a proposed budget and a graduate picnic scheduled for Sunday September 14 at Carroll Hall. ' 
President Margaret Grounds thanked the SummPr Committee, which met weekly throughout the summer for their euorts and noted that the committee sue­ceeded in re-writing the GSU Constitution, preparin~ a budget, organizing an orientation and registration informauon service for new and returning grads, and in other areas facilitating the Union's progress. 
A new meeting day was agreed upon. since schedule conflicts precluded ~e<IJ:tesdays. _ Weeki~ Students' Lounge, second floor, LaFortune. Repr~sentatives agreed to attend even m the event 
' th~y had to arrive or leave 5 or 10 mmutes late or early. . Games, food, and drmks are P!an!led for the September 14 grad 
' piCniC. Softball and volley ball have been arranged and other gam~s ar~ be~ng c<;msidere~. The fam~l,Y pic~tc. wtll constst of tradilional picnic .fO?d. 
A 50 cent adrmss10n char~e to cove~ the cost of the !ood ~111 be · reqmred of adults, wtth chtldren free. G~U Departmental 
Representa.ttves  and  Drom  
Representalives should be  con­ 
suited.  

· ment. 
At the center of the cnsts was Gen. Vasco Goncalves, considered by moderate army officers to be a tool of the Por­tuguese Communist party. 
Last week Costa Gomes con­
, sented under pressure to re­move Goncalves as premier. Then the president named him chief of staff of this NATO ally's defense forces. 
The heads of the army and the air force condemned the ap­pointment, and an assembly of officers repres~nting the 100,­000-man army voted to reject Goncalves' authority. Only the navy, the most politically radi­cal of the services, has ap­proved the appaintment. 
daily office hours on Monday, Sept. 
8, from 1:30-5:00 pm. The office is 
located in the Regina basement, 
room 17. 
McKenna stressed student 
\IOlvement in the commission. 
"There are still openings 
representatives from Regina and 
Augusta and we're always open to . questions and suggestions,' 
McKenna. 
The Social Commission's phone nimber is 5420. 
Friday, Septembers, 1975 the observer __9_ 


and other creatures send .. The Observer home today! 
***************************•··~,.~,··

D 1 semester $1 0 .D 1 year $18 
Please p~int and ·us~ zip code Name ,Address____....._....._--~ 

SALE 
THE PANDA HAS REALLY BEE"-BOTHERED 
BY THE HEAT. FOR THAT REASON, I
1637 LWW SO. BEND 
HE'S LOST HIS COOL HE IS SELLIN~ 
INQUIRE ABOUT FREE TRANSPORTATION 
HIS SHIRTS, AT FANTASTIC PRICES. SOME 
I
ARE GOING AT .CO~T. (OUR SPECIALTY, ,CUSTOM DESIGNED SHUlTS FOR
·yo AND FROM CAMPUS 
PHONE 232-6622 
GROUPS, TEAMS & CLUBSJ t,, \ 
• • • ~ • • • • . • #-~ • • 
• • .••• * • ,,. -k • • , ~ t • "'· ~ t • r • ' • ~ t t ' :: • • • "' ' . ... 

10 the observer Friday, September 5, 1975 
Will test Ford veto 
Senate Democrats shun oil compromise 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Sen­ate Democrats agreed unani­mously Thursday to put aside any effort to compromise with President Ford on energy con­trols until an attempt is made to override his veto of a pricecontrol bill. 
The Senate Democrats' ac­tion, similar to a decision Wednesday by House Demo­crats, came as the Ford admin­istration was publicizing its own proposals for easing the consumer impact of allowingoil price controls to expire per­manently. 
And service station operators and independent ae1menta of the oil industry told Con(ressthat unless controls are contin­ued, they will be run out of business by the giant oil com­panies.
At issue is a bill extendingoil-price controls for six months. Senate Democratic Leader Mike Mansfield said at the caucus meeting that he thinks Ford's forthcoming veto of the bill can be overriden byCongress.
The law under which the pric~ of 60 per cent of the oil 
Indiana food prices drop 3% 
Associated Press Writer 
Grocery bills in Indiana dropped an average 3 per cent last month, as dairy productsdefied a national trend of high­er prices, an Associated Press marketbasket survey shows. 
The mid-summer decline in the survey of six Indiana cities held the overall increase in food prices from June to Au­gust to less than 2 per cent. 
The August drop, however, might be short lived. 
Purdue University agricul­tural economists said the price of milk, which either dropped or stayed the same in Indiana last month, would start climb­ing in September. 
Bread and egg prices also may increase this fall, the economists said. 
Predicted coffee price in­creases, realized in only two cities last month, may become more widespread with price hikes announced by manufac­turers after frosts in Brazil de­stroyed much of the crops scheduled for harvest next year. 

· h u 't d St t more inflation and unemploy-out of price controls over 39 Natiomil Congress of Petroleumd
produce m t e m e a es ment. They generally favor months". This would postpone Retailers, which represents 70 • 
has been held at $5.2S a barrel the sharp fuel-price increases 000 service stations, told a Sen'­
expired on Monday. mandatory conservation as a h t d t 
Although that left the in-substitute for higher prices. t at are expec e o f o11ow re-ate hearing Thursday that the 
· · If Congress 1·s able to over-moval of controls. cost of gasoline could climb by
dustry free to raise J,nces, F d dm' · · 
rl'de the expected veto of a s1'x-The or a Imstrahon esti-as much as 17 cents a gallon if
most companies apparen y are h h d f
holding back, waiting to see month price extension, the lmates t at t e en o controls the major oil companies were whether Congress is able to Democrats probably would be would mean a three-cent hike '1 freed entirely from federal re­override Ford's veto of the bill able to dictate the terms of a in the orice of ll:aS(Iline. But the straints. 
that would restore controls for national energy policy. _.---------------­
six months. If the veto is sustained, Ford I -I Congressional Democrats would hold the upper hand and I c0 M I N G s0 0 N I I
fear price hike~ would bring on probably could force_ a phasing • 
w1 T H T H E sTU DENT I 
I IN MIND I 
I LITERS OF BEER AND I 
SIERRA-SPORTs.J CENTIMETERS OF PIZZA I 2216 MIAMI I I 
IN. I THE BACK DOOR I 
.____________________
__,·----------------· 





llelcome Back! 
If you live in a residence hall, ask us about the ·STUDENT BILLING CARD. With this card you can make long distance cails from your room at direct dialed rates. It's a lot easier and more economical than a collect call or a coin phone call. Drop by the Indiana Bell Busi­ness Office and get your STUDENT BILLING CARD today! 
, If you live in an 
apartment and need 
telephones installed, 
call our Business 
Office. 

Indiana Bell 

Friday, September s, lt7:..::s____..:..;th:...:....::e---=o:..::b::._s=--e-=-.:....r_;_v--=e=--:r____;l~l 
Maris recalls home run season 
GAitNESVILLE, -fFtla. b(APk). -found peace while games were veteran ones." any -chance of being elected by great honor," he says. "The
Four een years a er rea mg going on, but I dreaded that fi­the Baseball Writers Associ­
Babe Ruth's single-season Maris says he's happier now. Hall of Fame is something Jou
ation of America into the Hall still has dreaded memories of lions would be shot at me from better man to sit around in you play ball. 
home run record, Roger Maris nal out when those samt! ques-"I don't think it makes you a think about from childhoo if 
of Fame. Thus far, he hasn't his baseball glory days. a news corps which topped public places and let people
100 drawn much support for the "Some athletes look for the at many points. drool over you," he says. 
Hall. "Maybe I'm not worthy of ~ 
b . ht l"ght b t 1"t "I would have been happy to "Honest to goodness, my I don't know. But if I am wor­
ng t s, u was never hit those 61 homers under some "I'm not paying much atten­thy, I've my doubts I'll makemy kt.nd of lt"fe " says Mart's greatest thrills in life are to
' ' other name ...and to leave the tion to it, but if I were ever it. I'll just leave it to the gen­
who has found peace of mind ballpark unnoticed. work here at the plant and then voted in, I would consider it a iuses who vote on it." 
as a beer distributor in this qui-"Maybe 1 was unfair to group go home to be with my family. et north-central Florida city. everyone under a label of I don't enjoy traveling too 
M · l"k th I g d much. Pat and I have six kids
arts -t e e e en ary 'writers' when talking of my
Ruth -a New York Yankee and that takes most of my 
· h r ld h"t h complaints," says Maris. time." 
CLASSIFIED RDS
r1g t Je er, t 61 orne runs "Many New York writers were
in 1961. Maris says his clashes with 
FOR SALE
But Maris, now 41, was un-good to me, especially the more the press as a player could hurt. 
FOR RENTMen's 10-speed bike. 26", good Room for Girl Close to N.D. Kltcllenshape. Call after noon. 272-7857
comfortable with accom­
panying attention. the ' iC ************************************ ~ 
Privileges, swimming pool. S1~ "I couldn't go to the bath-~ iC 
week. Call Mrs. Cooper, 272-300<1;
s • I I 
Dinette--Large Table formica wood 
grain top two leaves, 4 chairs, beige,
room without a reporter follow-~ 
e n I0 rs • • ; 
Whole upstalr!6 fl. $50 per mo. girls only. 283 7579 or 233 1329
ing me," he says. "I really ~ ..,. 
upholstery like new. $125.00 Brown 
stratollner chair $115. Two burner electric plate, new $1<1.00
Borg moves into : Last chance ; 
Miscellaneous. 272·830<1. 
LOST & FOUND
U.S.Open semi's t .... 
Sansul Six AM-FM stereo receiver Whoever found black ring on 35 Watts RMS per channel. one year LaFortune plano: PLEASE return·
FOREST IIILLS, N.Y. t f e e t i' 
old, In excellent condition. S390. to Sharon Garvey, 22.C Walsh--no
AP++Little Eddie Dibbs' piano .. 
or senlOr piC ures f 
Wlllsell for S230 or best offer. Call questions asked-· No monetary
legs collapsed when his heart i' .... 
Stan 291-6026. value but belonged to my mother. refused to budge Thursday, and it i' i' was a tired Bjorn Borg that i' i' 
Couches, chairs, Misc. Free delivery to campus. Mrs. Cooper. WANTED
followed Guillermo Vilas into the t Call Dome Office (7085). ~ 
272-300<1. 1 used plano In playable condition.
men's semi-finals of the U.S. Open ~ i' 
Call Val, 6661.
Tennis Championships. -tc t 
USED BOOKS 
"lwasverylucky"Borg,Sweden's -tc· 
TQDA Y .... 
available for thesa and many other Need one housemate Excellent 
19-year-old golden boy, said after t i' 
classes from Pandora's Books: condition, newly remodeled. S75 per 
Am. St. 352, 357, 381, 482; Phil. 101, month. Incl. utilities. Phone 217­201,2<11,2<15,255,272,275,303. 306, 351, 3463 . 
p M
surviving a 2-hour, 55-minute i' 
center court marathon against t 7 • 9 • • : 
.oJ.oJ1; Art 151; Col Sem. 321; Psych
Dibbs, the scrambling giant killer ~ i' 
180; Soc. 225, 227; Speech 135, 390; Need couch and or carpet. Call Bren
from Miami Beach, Fla., 6-4, 7-6, 4-+: ~ , 
Theo. 103, 121, 123,131,1<11, 1<13, or Mike 8318 
6 76 
180,235, 236, 251, 331 367, <Ill, <133, 593;
' ·· ~ Or sign up in Dining Hal/s.during dinner~ 
Eng. 109, 113, 180, 185, 307, 322, 376, Need extra cash. Full or pertlme385, 386, 390A, 395, 399, .cGlA, <IO<IA, help wanted. Call 217·6613 for Info. 
Dibbs was stricken with leg t ~ 
cramps midway through the -~ _-tc , 
<133, <1<15, 505, 528, 583, 591, 67.CB; Gen.
match-starting in the third set-and ~ h · :tc 
Program 2<13, 281, 3<15, 381, .oJ<I1, <1<13,
hP was barely able to remain ~ Friday, Sept. 5 -Nort Dining Hall ~ 
481; Mod. Lang. 180, 361, 393, .C21 NOTICES
verlical when Borg swep(through iC i' 
&521, .(30, 441; Govt. 180, <167, 5<15; Typing. 35 cents per page. Call Dan Hlst. 180, 215, 305, -411, <137, <139, <153,
the final liebreak, seven points to ~ · _. ~ 
272-55.c9.
<155, 509.
one. .......................... .,.............................................................. 
Vilas, the rugged Argentine with lhe build of a blacksmith and left­handed destructive power of a sledge hammer, needed little more Ihan an hour to breeze past a fellow Latin, unseeded Jaime i''illol of Chile, 6-4, 6-0, 6-L 

Welcome back to campus. 1 hope you have a very pleasant year. I will be writing a series of articles !on Beauty), which 1 hope will be Interesting as well as in· formative. Our beauty salon Is located downtown on the North end of the R lver 'Jend Mall, next to the Morris Cl• 1c Auditorium . 
We have 9 excellent heir stylists: Babs-fine hair stylist, excelling In hair color Bonnie & Brenda -long hair Is their long suit; whether It be up and fancy, or long and flowing Bernie & Joan -two of our top stylists-combined experlence-30 years (no more needed be said) Bertha -expert manicurist and specialist In hair care Phil & Rick-two talented young men, highly trained In hair cutting, "Bio-Weavlng", curling Iron and Redken hair products VIvian -In business 30 yaars and still keeping up with the latest trends VIrginia -receptionist and VIvian's wife 
If we can help In any way to make your coming year here more comfortable, Please call us. 
Sponsort>d by 
~VIVIAN's 
'UAIR DESIGN STUDIO 
203 N. MICHIGAN Ph. 232·2194 
It no longer has to decide who is going to college. 
Your future no longer has to be in the hands of the almighty dollar-your dollars that is. Be­cause an Air Force ROTC 4-year scholarship will pick up the bills. Tuition bills ... textbook and lab bills. Plus, it provides good job to go to. And a future for a hundred dollar a month without limits, Travel. Promo­allowance for you to spend as tions. Prestige. you see fit. There are 6500 Air Force 
And at graduation, that ROTC college scholarships in 
scholarship really starts paying total. Why not see if you'veoff. You receive a commission earned one during the last few as an Air Force officer. Plus a years. 
CONTACT ·· · CAPT. M.L. STOCKDALE 
ASST PROF OF AEROSPACE STUDIES UNIV. of N.D. Ph 283 6634 
Put it all together in Air Force ROTC. 
12 the observer Friday, September 5, 1975 
Top defense stars in ~crimmage 

by Tom Kruczek 
With just nine practice days left until the Irish open the 1975 football campaign, Coach Dan Devine Wednesday ran his troops through one of the toughest scrimmages of the summer. However the story remained unchanged as to the standouts in the workout with the number one defense and the running back crop controlling the excitement. 
The semi-closed workout began with the number one offense being matched against the second defense. Rick Slager was calling the signals, and after failing to make a first down, the team was forct;d to pun~. Freshman ~oe Restlc then nailed a 50 yard kick 
On the second dri"" the first offense came to life behilld the power line rushes of Jim Browner and the sweeps of Steve Schmitz. Slager showed effectiveness in using the option pitch to the trailing back Mark McLane but the senior quarterback failed to establish a passing game. Sch­mitz' six yard left sweep gave the number one offense their first score of the day. Reeve added the point from placement. 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::Devine answers 
Dan Devine held his first big press conference of the young season yesterday in the lower auditorium of the ACC. He fielded various questions thrown at hlm by the Midwest Skywriters, a group of about 50 writers who tour the Midwest every September in search of an overview of the college football scene. 
As in past years, Notre Dame was the last stop for the travel-weary writers. They arrived at the Michiana Regional Airport at 11:00 a.m. in a rickety old DC-3. Devine, looking pleasant and calm while dressed in a turquoise leisure suit, talked for more than an hour. Here is some of what he said. 
Q. What are the strength and weaknesses of your team '1 
A. It is very hard to distinguish between a strength and a weakness. They are both relative to the team. We will probably have to wait and see what are true strengths are. One might call our inexperience a weakness. 
But I cannot say that with certainty. 
Q. Is Art Best going to see any action with the Irish this year? 
A. The situation has not been resolved. He· is not in school. A University decision should come in a few days. 
Q. Is Jim Browner going to start at fullback? 
A..Jim is certainly a good-looking freshman. His runs in the two scrimmages have been impressive. As far as a starting line-up, I'd have to hesitate about picking one right now. 
Q. Are the pressures here at Notre Dame any different fromthose at Green Bay? 
A. I never really feel any pressure. It means nothing to me. As one grows older, he realizes that pressure lessens with maturity. I realize that I have a job to do and I enjoy doing it here. 
Q. Do you ever feel that you were given a bad deal in Green Bay? 
A. I had a great relationship with many people in the Wisconsin area. I strongly feel that I established a young and experienced ball club il" Green Bay. Many feel that I left the Packers with no top draft choiceo.. when I traded for John Hadl. But most people don't know that I had two second and third round choices. By trading one of each away, I still left a second and third round draft choice available. Draft choices are always a gamble. I was sure of one thing and that was that Hadl could play. I'm still close to the Packer players. I have nothing but a warm feeling toward everyone in Green Bay. I still have an empty feeling not being back for the fifth year. Yet it all disappears when I set foot on this campus. 
Q. Do you see any difference between coaching in the pros and coaching at the college level? 
A. Environmentally, I might have to say yes. When I came to work this morning and I saw that long line of students waiting for football tickets, it really made me feel so good. When we are practicing and the band can be heard in the distance, it makes me realize just what the college scene is all about. But as far as the players go, maturity and age never seem to go hand in hand. For example, Ed Bauer (Notre Dame co-captain) is one of the most mature people that I have worked with in the last five years and he's only 22. 
Q. Who will start at quarterback against Boston College? 
A. I will make a definite decision on that after Saturday's scrimmage. The announcement will probably come on Monday or Tuesday. Jo• Montana has looked real ~ood in scrimmages. Frank Allocco has made a remarkable recovery from his shoulder injury. Rick Slager is a real smart quarterback. Gary Forystek also has good possibilities. 
'l. Why is Luther Bradley playing right cornerback~ 
A. Luther plays well anywhere. I must make a decision on what is best 
... 
for the team. I would rather see· Ted Burgmeier at that spot and move Luther back to strong safety where he can be used to his fullest. But right now I need Burgmeier at split end. 
Q. Is Steve Niehaus really worth all the publicity that he is getting? 
A. Steve Niehaus has the quickness to make moves that most NFL 
lineman cannot make. He is what is known as a guesser and I don't mean that as a knock. Steve has showed me a lot in practice. He now just has to prove himself in game competiton. 
Devine concluded the interview by saying, "I want to forget the past and do my job here. There are a lot of things that I've kept inside of me 
and they will remain so. I like it here and I'd like to remain here for many years...if they still want me here." 
I was very impressed by Devine's total command in handling the press. But when the season opens in less that two weeks, the heat will be on him to produce. He himself even admitted that "I turn into a sort of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde figure ~ne ~eek before any game.'' ~~ybe Devine will not 
feel the pressure, but 1f thmgs :;o wrong someonelwdl feel the heat. 
But now it was the defensive units turn to star. Willie 7, Jeff 
I ~e;~·~ ~~:~r~!:dh~: ~nt~~~ 
Court reverses NCAA regulation 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. CAP) ­Coach Bear Bryant, now two-for­two in his court suits, found plenty of allies Thursday after his latest victory in a challenge of squad size regulations. 
A majority of major college football coaches expressed pleasure with a federal judge's ruling late Wednesday night that both the home and the away teams can dress a maximum of 60 players for a game. 
U.S. District Judge Sam C. Pointer Jr. applied his ruling to all colleges in the National Collegiate Athletic Association, although the suit had been brought only by Alabama. He threw out an NCAA limitation of 48 on only the travel squads, saying that made for unfair competition. 
At Kansas City, the NCAA's executive director, Walter Byers, said the ruling probably will be appealed soon. 
Bryant had said of the ruling: "The big thing is that it will even it up for everybody." 
On the other hand, there were some who said they wished the judge had not changed the rule. These included Coach Joe Paterno of Penn State, Big Ten Com­missioner Wayne Duke and Athletic Director Cecil Coleman of Illinois. 
The judge said he based his ruling on NCAA bylaws which indicate that all rules "be in line with fair competition." 
He also said he found little to show that the 48-60 rule, adopted as an economy measure, would save very much money. 
Cross-country 
practice begins, 
The Notre Dame cross country team has begun practice in an­ticipation of its first meet against Purdue September 13. Practices start at 4:00 and the 3rd tee of the 
N.D. golf course. Anyone in­terested in joining should report there or contact coach Joe Piane (6135).
QJ.f J H 
. ·Campus ­
_
football sign-ups 
_ 
Anyone interested in playing Interhall football for the Off­campus team should sign up in the off-campus office on the third floor of LaFortune or contact Tom 
Thompson at 255-5848. 
as they stifled runs and pressured Heimkrieter, a freshman from the quarterback out of the pocket. . Roger Bacon High School in On their second play, Fry forced Cincinnati. Heimkrieter also was Frank Alloco to hurry his pass, effective against the run, with with Doug Becker picking it off for jarring tackles on Korman and an interception. And this was the Browner. story ofthe day for the top defense, The battle for the top punting allowing just three yards on their spot continues to be hot, as both first three series. Tony Brantley and the number one 
Following the interception, challenger Joe Restic had good Slager again against the number afternoons. Restic nailed a 50 two defense, engineered his second yarder with the wind and a 49 yard scoring drive. The big play was a boot abainst the wind. Brantley Ted Burgmeier reverse with a countered with a 44 yard punt devastating block by Pat Pohlen against the wind and a 42 yarder clearing the way for a 12 yard gain. with the breeze. Brantley with his 
Slager then topped the drive with a experience from last year appears 
15 yard keeper for the score. Pat to have the slgiht edge for the spot. 
McLaughlin added the point. Now to the quarterback 
The next score of the afternoon situation. Devine got a chance to came again with the number one look at all of the leading candidates offense in, facing the second for the star~ing position with defensive unit. Al Hunter set up SlaRer appearmg to do the best at 
which Bob Zanot fielded at his own · the score by sweeping right and leading the team. SQphomore 15 yard line, and after breaking tight-rope walking the sidelines for Gary Forystek proved that he has two tackles and bumping into some 23 yards. Slager then faked inside one of the most powerful arms on of his own men, sailed the rest of to Browner, pitching outside to the team, against the first team the way for an 85 yard run back. Russ Korman who gained 7. The defense letting loose with a 45 yard Dave Reeve added the point after .. quarterback then fmished off the bomb that Kris Haines just missed. drive with a 5 yard pass under In the bump and bruises heavy rush to ~{lhomore Ken department, Ross Browner misst::d McAfee. McLaughlin added the the workout due to a minor extra point. ailment, with Joe Montana 
Other standouts on the offense sustaining a shoulder injury. were running backs Terry Eurick The scrimmage was the first one and Jerome Heavens, both in the stadium on the completely carrying the ball well against the returfed field, which is a marked stubborn first defense. Doug Buth, improvement over the field con­reserve tight end, performed well, dihon of last year. Devine will now snaring passes of 26, 11, and 10 lead the Irish into the final stages yards each. of preparation for the September 
On the second team defense, the 15 opener against Boston College. man responsible for much of the Saturday's closed scrimmage will pressure Slager found himself be the last major tuneup before the 







