
... 
Vol. X., No. 30 
Griffiths urges women to participate in politics 
h)' Pat Colt• really a reward. The real reward llomt•makt••·. to he released next Staff Ht'JJOrtt>r 
that a woman receives is the year. ability to influence law." According to <;riffiths. full 
lkp. Martha Griffiths urged "Shl' l'an \t>arn about the system. Pquality for wonwn will be rPached young women to get involved in and it compels her to know the "in 2,000 yt•ars." politics last night in O'Laughlin provable facts in issues," she Auditorium at St. Mary's College, added. ln\"oln•nu•nt :\el'dt•d 
"There have been women Griffiths l'ontinued, "A career in 
lawyt>rs. but more are needed. politics disciplines one' thinking. "Wonwn must go to lrgislators 
Tlwre an• only three women NPwspapl'rs say that all men are and -to puhlislwrs and television 
govl•rnors. and there are !\0 female smartt'r than women." stations and tlw press for l'qual 
rl'presentatives in Gongress," she "But not if a woman is in tim<'." said <;riffiths. 
poinll'd out to the audience of 50. politics," she said. 
··woml'n can do much better than (;riffiths said that laws would be that." Griffiths maintained. 
different if women had the op­Univer!>ity payroll checks for $3S or less will be cashed Mondays portunity to contribute. and Fridays from 1 to 4:30 pm in room 109, the lost and Found 
"Take the 1935 Social Sl'curity
(;riffiths cited lack of confidence 
room of the Administration Building. Act." Griffiths observed. "This 
as a reason for women not wanting
The service, which began yesterday, is designed especially for law was passed by men and 
to Pnter politics.
students who have no checking accounts. The service affects only collected a tax for all who
"Wonwn do not believe they are
!.tutlents on University payroll. (Photo by Tom lose) worked." 
competent to enter the 
"It paid money to women who 
profession." emphasized Griffiths. 
were beneficiaries of men. But 
"Furthermore, they want 
what about the widows? The
Affir1native Actiori sonwbody to ask them to enter the legislators did not even think of
profession." she stated. "Instead 
them."she said.
they should be asking for support." 
Griffiths also remarked about
seen as insufficient 
the Welfare Bill. She said that men('itt's Exampll.' 
gave the provision for women to h)' Christie A. Herlihy collect but not men although the 
Griffiths brought out the case of
Staff Bt•porter men were able to contribute to her 
a girl who went door to door 
welfare.
campaigning for votes.
Last of a two-part series "Welfare and tax laws," com­
Sonw faculty members have attacked the recently approved ''As a result, she won the mented Griffiths, "can destroy the Notre Dunw affirmative action program as insufficient. Opponents primary for her district over a American family. If women had a havt• also criticized the effectiveness of the HEW's enforcement dl'mocratic male candidate," she chance to influence the policy; 
proct>dures. said. there would be a change." In his tl'stimony at the Labor Department hearings two weeks Griffiths is the representative of ago. llnivt•rsity Provost Fr. James T. Burtchaell questioned the I he 17th congressional district of l'nfanu·ablt> Laws 
<'ompPtl'ncy of an outside agency to evaluate whether colleges are the State of Michigan, a position making sincere efforts to Pquitably hire qualified women and she has held since 1955. Griffiths elaborated on how laws minoritil·s. citing the 1974 investigation as an example. are unfavorable to women. 
Fiv<' complaints filed by individual faculty members against She has advocated the Equal "In Alabama. if a woman dies 
Hights Anwndment and televised a Rep. Martha Griffiths cited lack of 
f\jotn• I >aml' prompted the campus visit of an Equal Employment without having made will, the I >pportunity Commission (EEOC> official. The woman who arrived sessions of Congress. husband gets all of the property," confidence a~ a reason for women lo investigatl' was a former graduate student who had discontinued She received her B.A. degree shl' l'Xplained. "On the other hand, not wanting to enter politics. lwr studil'S. . from the University of Missouri if the husband dies without having (Photo by Tom Lose) 
"No amount of brilliance or dedication can make such an inex­and her J.D. degree from the made a will. the property goes to "Two-thirds of the women who 
University of Michi@n. She served the husband's mother.
Pl'riPnct•d person competent. to investigate a group of work arl' widowl'd, divorced, or 
in the Michigan State Legislature "In fact. the wife is sixth in
professionals," Burtchaell stressed, adding that other institutions who have husbands out of work. 
from 1949 to 1952.
ha\'l' rl'ported similar experiences. succession to receive the These wonwn must support their ( 'ol•r-cion by itself is not enough to effect social change, Burt­property." she pointed out. families on their own effort." chaell argued. Lists Ht•wards "This proves that homemakers Griffith told the audience. "This is the same, troubling view I am objecting to today: that have very few rights," said 
Griffiths listed the rewards for
tlw governml'llt knows best what all our common needs are, and Griffiths. Griffiths concluded, 
women upon entering the field of a
daims lhl' right to take our money and direct our actions towards Griffiths is currently writing ''Everything that happens to you is chosen goals." he stated. politics. book entitled Tht• Ht'port to Sub­'touched in some way by politics."Money," she stated, "is not comm ittt't' on th.-H ights of tht' Women must be represented." Possibility of Discrimination ('barges 
-............... ..................· ­
"Every timl' a woman or a black or a Hispanic-American or a 

·····......---.­
non-Catholic is unsuccessful in securing a faculty appointment or a promotion or tenure at a university such as ours," Burtchaell said, "there is the inevitable temptation for him or her to believe, or at least to allege, that he or she was a victim of improper discrimination." 
Since the affirmative action program applies to university grants through Pxecutive order, filed complaints are reviewed by HEW or thl' Civil Hights Commission of the State of Indiana and thereby complett•ly by pass review by federal courts. 
" ...no one can claim a right to be awarded a federal contract," Hurtchaell said. "Therefore those accused of discrimination can be punished without judicial process by preemptory denial or with­drawal of contracts." 
In order to adequately defend itself against complaints filed regarding discriminatory hiring policy, the University must do 
.l•laborate and time-consuming paperwork. "It takes so much time," Sr. John Miriam Jones complained. Shl' continued, "On one complaint I had to send in a list of the 560 
job applicants along with the top 20 dossiers for the agency to read and judge to see if we had made a professional judgment in denying this person l'mployment." 
Victims of Extortion 

Not only does the affirmative action program make institutions a .ready victim of complaints but also of extortion by the federal govermnent, Burtchaell claimed. 
"For no one really has a vested right to governmental moneys: all grants are a gract', and are quite discretionary," he said. 
(continued on page 3) 


un1vers1ty of notre dome st. mary's college 
Tuesday, October 14, 1975 



the observer Tuesday, October 14, 1975 
warld briefs 
SALEM, Ill. <APl-Two federal prison escapees who had eluded searchers for three days were captured Monday night after one of them sought a drink of water a a house on the edge of this farm town. authorities said. Two other escapees were still at large. 
A fifth convict was captured Sunday. 
LISBON, Portugal lAPl -Premier Jose Pinheiro de Azevedo said Monday the collapse of military discipline could make Por­tugal ungovernable, but his coalition cabinet "intends to save the country." 
Azevedo did not offer any specific measures to end pro­Communist mutinies in the army or street violence that is un­dermining his center--left government. 
PINE RIDGE, SD <APl -Four bombs exploded on the Pine Hidge Indian Reservation Monday, extensively damaging two Bureau of Indian Affairs offices, a tribal courthouse and an electric transformer, the BIA said. 
ANKARA. Turkey <APl -Premier Suleyman Demirel's con­sen·ative Justice party gained new strength Monday from Senate elections, giving him a chance to take a more conciliatory stand on the Greek-Turkish rivalry in Cyprus. 


an campus t:aday 
1:30pm-· dissertation defense, "structure-function relationships in the outer membrace of escherichia coli," by christopher j. pazales, rm. 102, gal. life science center, sponsored by microbiology dept. 
4:30pm.. nieuwland lectures, "membrances and coenzymes: cell-cell interactions in intracellular parasites," by dr. trager, 'gal. life science center aud. 
7pm.. lecture, nikki giovanni, poet, o'laughlin aud., spon­sored by student government in observing in­ternational women's year. 
7:30pm.. lecture, "the multinational corporation: a product of the global village," by thomas williams, national & foreign editor, south bend tribune, carroll hall, sponsored by bus. adm. and economics dept.
8 pm .. 
recital, carol dzikowski, student recital, little theater, sponsored by music dept. 
8 pm · dramatic presentation, arthur kopit's "indians," stepan 'center, tickets: $2 general, $1.50 staff and students, also oct. 17 and 18. 
3-S pm .. formal and "hustle" dance lessons, with fran demarko, $2 for faculty, students and staff, Iafortune ballroom 
7:30-9:30 pm formal and "hustle" dance lessons, with fran demarko, $2 for faculty, students and staff, Iafortune ballroom 

ND ranked eighth by study: Princeton heads U.S. colleges 
by Kathy Mills ministration, faculty, student siderations were the boards of 
St•niot· Staff Report«>r considerations and a general area trustees. Only three boards of which includes facilities and trustees received an "A" rating.related university organizations. These were the trustees of Prin­
Notre Dame is ranked eighth The evaluation method used is ceton. Harvard_and Notre Dame. among American undergraduate similar to that of the SAT's. A "D" colleges and first among American is equivalent to 200, "C" to 400, Criticizes Reports Catholic colleges, according to "B" to 600 and "A" to 800. "The Gourman Report: Con­The Gourman rating is an Richard Conklin, director of fidential Ratings of American average of all the items rated. information services said the Colleges." Notre Dame received a rating of rating systems of undergraduate 
This study was prepared by the 741, an average of its academic institutions such as the Gourman Continuing Education Institute, rating of 740 and its non­report ''seem to suffer from Inc., under the direction of Jack departmental rating of 743. quantifying things which can't be Gourman. in 1967-68. quantified." 
Gourman is a professor of :\lany lt«>ms Evaluat«>d He cited Notre Dame's faculty history and political sciencl:! at San hiring policy as one area which Fernando Valley State College, The information for the does not allow for quantification. Northridge, Calif. evaluation of academics is taken "A hired professor knows he's 
He received a bachelor's degree from the data available from expected to teach undergraduates in 1949 and a master's degree in accrediting boards, scholarship at Notre Dame," he explained. 1952 from Notre Dame. Gourman and fellowship foundations, "TI-1ere are many institutions is also chairman of the Alumni industrial and government where a man can be hired and look Schools Committee in the Lost fellowship and scholarship forward to teaching a graduate Angeles area. awards, publications curriculum seminar or doing research and 
Gourman ranked Princeton first and the honorary societies. writing." with a rating of 772, while Harvard In a 1972 update to his original He continued, "Notre Dame's was second with 770. Yale, study, Gourman ranked Notre policy has strengthened un­University of Michigan and Dame's Department of English dergraduate education, yet this Chicago complete the top five, with tenth among the nation's colleges. doesn't appear in the Gourman ratings of 762, 749 and 744, The Department of Chemical report.'' respectively. Columbia and Engineering received a ranking of "There is no way to translate Cornell ranked sixth and seventh. ninth, while the physics depart­this into a point system," he added. 
· The Catholic school closest to ment emerged tenth. Conklin stated that he has never Notre Dame is Georgetown with a The pre-med program was seen any comparative survey of Gourman rating of 506. ranked ninth in "the most undergraduate institutions con­
Gourman rates each academic prestigious pre-med un­duc-ted like those on the graduate department available in the dergraduate programs of study." level. colleges. He also evaluates the Among the areas evaluated in "There are more refined att­non-departmental areas of ad-the non-departmental con-empts in rating graduate 
education," he remarked. 

Ht·port l 1sed Infrequently
Ford signs Yanks to Sinai 
WASHINGTON <APl-President Ford on Monday signed the resolution by Congress authorizing the manning of early warning stations in the Sinai by American civilians. 
Without elaboration, the President also said he would "soon 

SMC student affairs clarifies parietals 
by Marjorie lrt' assurance that the students would "We can't take the risk of letting Staff Reporter give full cooperation," she said. anyone just walk into the dorm," Cannon noted most students 
she said. ''The purpose of parietals is so whom she had spoken to Cannon also elarified the alcohol 
are that students may entertain guests generally satisfied with the policy. in their rooms, informally." present hours. The alcohol policy at St. Mary's 
Dr. Mary Alice Canon, St. Concerning limitations on the prohibits "consumption of Mary's vice-president of Student number of guests a student may alcoholic beverages by student-Affairs, clarifying guest policies, have at one time, Cannon said, .on campus. Students over 21 said yesterday. "We have no specified limit but may request special permission 
"The students don't like to sit you can't stuff 20 or 30 guys into from the Office of Student Affairs with guests in the rec rooms or big one room and everyone knows to serve alcoholic beverages at lounges all of the time. Parietals that." special events," according to the 
give the students a chance to en­"Basically, what's comfortable Student Handbook. tertain guests in a more private is the limit. There are rooms of all atmosphere," said Cannon. sizes on this campus," she added. Cannon explained that it has 
Cannon explained that t.he recent Cannon explained, "While five or been a policy of the college to extension of parietals from 10 p.m. six guys in a room in LeMans comply with the Indiana State law. to midnight on Fridays and might not be too many, it could not Therefore, the passage of the Saturdays was not gra111ted by the be considered comfortable in Faccenda Bill is not likely to affect Board of Regents, as reported Regina." a change in the SMC policy. yesterday. The requirement that guests However, if the Indiana law were 
"The extension was granted by leave IDs at the desk is "strictly a to change, there would probably be 
the college administration with mv security measure," said Cannon. a reconsideration. 
WORLD SERIES WEEK 
AT 
. 



THE LIBRARY 
ALL PIZZA'S  $2.00  
ALL PITCHERS  $1.50  
TUES~  WED.  THURS.  

WATCH THE GAMES ON THE LIBRARY'S 4 FT. TV SCREEN 
Director of Admissions John T.

consult Congress on what is 
Goldrick said he uses Gourman 's 

required·· to sustain U.S. relations 
ratings "very infrequently and

with Middle East countries. 
with a great amount of discretion." 

White House officials said he 
"I am concerned about biases

referred to aid requests now being 
that might be misread," he added. 

prepared which are expected to be 
"Had he not been a Notre Dame

sent to Congress within the next 
graduate. I would have used it

two or three weeks. 
most frequently."

The Americans to man the Sinai 
(;o)drick said he uses the report

stations are not expected to be 
in discussions with alumni who

flown to the Middle East until 
work with high schools,· but he

February. Their number is ex­
advises them to use it with great
pected to total 200. 
discretion.

The Senate approved the use of 
~.<:mil T. Hofman, dean of the

the U.S. civilians by a vote of 70 to 
Freshman Year of Studies, stated

18 on Thursday. The House ap­
he announces the results of

proved the arrangement 341 to 69 
periodic updates of the report to 


The Observer 1s published Monday through Friday and weekly durong the summer sess1on, except durmg exams ~nd vacation periods The Observer 1s publoshed by the students of the Un1v of Noire D'ame and St Mary's College Subscript,ons may be purchased 
tor 10 dollars per semester 118 dollars per year 1 from The Ob server, Box Q, Notre Dame, In d1ana, 46556. Second Class postage pa1d. Notre Dame. 1N 46556 
his elasses when they are first released. "This gives some satisfaction to the students," he commented. 
Hofman said he also mentions the report as one source of in­formation when prospective ~tudents or their parents ask about Notre Dame's undergraduate education. 
"It gives some indication of comparison with other schools," 
he said. 

SEPTEMBER & 
OCTOBER SPECIAL now at the 

HOUSE OF TURQUOISE 

LIQUID SILVER & TURQUOISE CHOKERS NORMALLY $19.95 ·· NOW $10.00 (WITH THIS COUPON) 
MICHIANA'S LARGEST STOCK OF INDIAN 
.JEWELRY 

--CUSTOM SILVERSMITHING --REPAIRS TO INDIAN JEWELRY --GIFT CERTIFICATES FOR THAT BIRTHDAY OR CHRISTMAS GIFT --LAYAWAY 
--MASTER CHARGE + + BANK AMERICARD 
. .. 



THE HOUSE OF TURQUOISE 
31~5outhMain Mishawaka 259-0751 
Open 1 0 a.m. to 6 p.m. Closed Sunday 
Tuesday, October 14, 1975 the observer 
----------~~~~~----­
In anniversary speech 
•

Hesburgh examines U.S. Navy tradition 
by .lot• Gill He continued, "Your great StaU H l'llOrtl'r 
challenge is to see what is good and honorable and beautiful about tradition, and hold on to it.
'President Theodore M. Hesburgh examined the pros and 
1 think we have to be somewhere cons of tradition before 160 
in the middle," he stated. Hesburgh also observed themembers of the naval ROTC yesterday afternoon in com­change the Navy has undergone during the years, saying in this day nwmoration of the Navy's 200th and age "it is very hard to go back
anniversary. Speaking in Washington ~-{all, to those years." Capt. Pfeiffer, who introducedlll•sburgh commented, "It's easy Hesburgh, said the theme for the
to throw tradition overboard, and 
anniversary was "Building on ait's also easy to act as if tradition is Proud Tradition.''
everything." 
(continued from page 1) 

Affirmative Action 
He added, "The government may give out its funds as it pleases." Consequently a new weapon for enforcing social policy is available to government. 
Howard Glickstein, former head of the Notre Dame Civil Rights Center, sharply disagreed with Burtchaell. "Burtchaell simply does not understand the law's requirements in these matters," he said. 
"The University is not required to do anything to get a federal contract that they are not required to do under the Civil Rights Law of 1964 " he explained. ' 
"If the University thinks that it has a contract unjustly, it can in fact sue in Federal court," he stated. But it is very unlikely that the situation would ever come to that, Glickstein said, since "the people who are supposed to be enforcing af­firmative action are not doing anything against universities anyway. The 
U.S. Civil Rights Commission has said that the program has been made a nullity by poor enforcement." 

Hesburgh: It's ea!.y to throw tradition overboard, and it's also easy to act as if tradition is everything. (Photo by Tom Lose) 
"The originator of the quote may elevating, we can draw ourselves have had Notre Dame in mind. It up to these standards," he stated. seems the Navy and Notre Dame H('sburgh asked each of the both have proud tradition," he 
midshipmen to read some naval said. history outside of class sometime 
Hesburgh spoke from his per­before they graduate.
sonal experiences. 

"It is an interesting history of "I have served on a number of 
people bound by traditions that ships under the Secretary of were held fixed, and others who 
Commerce, and I come from a have nothing to hold on to," he naval family," he said. 
said. 

"P('rhaps the closest brush I've "I think it's enough to say I'm 
had with tradition and the Navy proud of the Navy and its was at the Naval Camp at An­traditions. l wish you well, I wish napolis, where I served for a the Navy well, and I hope the next 
number of years." 
100 years are as good as the past

He continued, "I've always been 200 were." he concluded. 
at home with them, because I find, 
as the captain alluded, that Hesburgh then cut thl' l'ake, and tradition can be a great compelling 
the studen<s and guests left to force." 
attend a brief reception in "If we belong to something LaFortune.

rTHEPo·s·T-E•R-P-l•A-C•Enn:n••'•l_ 
1100 11 x17 POSTERS only $10.00 i a I 

~~=-i~0~!~;~::~ts • 
SOUTH BEND 289-6977 
= ii!! 
iuJu£££222£22222211£21U£211!221£21UIIIIIUIIIIDWI--I-II ll.fflllllli 
Only three or four contracts have ever been cancelled since the anti­discrimination program began in 1941, according to Glickstein. 
Professor James B. Stewart, director of the Black Studies Program, denied that the government will be able to enfotce equitable hiring procedure at universities through the affirmative action program. 
lie called the affirmative action committee "toothless," and criticized it for lumping minorities together. 
"l doubt whether they will make their goals from what I know of their hiring procedure," Stewart asserted. "Burtchaell's statement typifies the University attitude towards hiring. There is a tension within the committee as to how zealous they should be towards hiring women and minorities. There have been threats of resigning by members who felt that the committee wasn't doing enough," he added. 
Labeling the committee "cumbersome and ineffective," Stewart argued for the University to hire a guidance officer. Requiring background in education and administration, such an officer would have the clout to apply moral pressure on the departments. 
Carol Moore echoed Stewart's view that the affirmative action com­mittee was weak. "The committee has got to be stringent. If the program is going to be ('ffective they are going to have to be on everybody's back," she argued. Stewart said the University could shirk its social responsibility in equitable hiring through tenure and low salary. "If the University wants to improve the educational environment here it will have to review its salary policy," Stewart stated. Burtchaell advocated the use of fellowships to promote an increase of 
women and minority graduate students. This would stimulate supply 
rather than intensify demand as the current affirmative action program 
does. 
Stewart disagreed, "Money does not generate a supportive at­
mosphere. If you examine the money which goes out and the graduate 
students coming in you would realize that money is not enough." 
Carol Moore, however, believes that fellowships should be encouraged 
and increased for both minorities and women. 
Despite vague employment goals based on non-uniform national figures and weak enforcement guidelines, faculty agreed that there was a need for such a program. 
~---------------------------·

I S-T-R-E-T-C-H I 
IYour budget & shop at any area • I
! 

MISHAWAKA 315 I 

Valparaiso University presents andKANSAS Dave Loggins Live and in Concert Valparaiso University Gym October 17, 1975 8:00p.m: TICKETS $5.50 reserved $5.50 at the Door $5.00 General Admission FOR TICKETS OR FURTHER INFORMATION WRITE COA, VALPO UNION, VALPARAISO, IN. 46383  
OKTOBERFEST '75 COUNTDOWN: ONE MORE DAY MITTWOCK­DONNERSTAG OKTOBER 15 OKTOBER 16 4:30­GERMAN DINNER 10:30 -ARTS-CRAFTS WITH AUTHENTIC 5:00 SHOW6:15 GERMAN BAND (LEMANS) 6:30­HALL 2:30­GAMES­DECORATING EVENTS­4:30 CONTEST FUN 8:00 -CONCERT IN 8:00­DANCE -REGINA O'LAUGHLIN NORTH BAND­FEATURING STRATUS ($.25) "CARE OF THE BEER GARDEN COW" ($.75) BASMT REGINA EINS ZWEI GSUFA ($2.00)  
SPONSORED BY SMC SOCIAL COMMISSION  


I GOODWILL 
I STORE 
I NEW AND USED FURNITURE TOYS I CLOTHING FOR EVERYONE
I 
BOOKS JEANS GLASSWARE I MISC. HARD WARE, ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES 

I 

I I I 
SUPER STORE 18051 WESTERN 282-1030 I 
I 
SOUTH BEND 702 I 
s. MICH. 282-1215 I 
II 
NILES 
2 20 N. FRONT 683-8322 I 
-I 
N. MAIN 255-0246 I I 

I 'NEW' MODERN STYLE LOUNGE CHAIR 
I

I ONLY $8950 I
I I

WHILE THEY LAST 
I SHOP YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD GOODWILL STORES AND BENEFIT FROM II OUR LOW PRICES ON CHOICE CLOTHING ITEMS AND llO'S OF OTHERI 


~~~~~0~~~~~;::::;~~~~~:;:_..., -.-.-...IJaocococ~~~~~~MXMXXMXMXM~~~~~~~~~~~oooooaocococococococ~~ 
,.....-------------------------.­
c a n s i d e r this!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 





~~The Observer 
~ on independent student newspaper 
Brainwashed 
Founded November 3, 1966 
Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief Tom Modglin Business Manager Tom Whelan Advertising Manager 

America
EDITORIAL BOARD AI Rutht'rford, Managing Editor; Jim Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor; KPn Girouard, News Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; Ken Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; Tom O'Neil, Features Editor; Chris Smith, Photo Editor 
~--------E_d_it_o_"•-'•-·-~-J~~~~-----~N~~~w~s~26~J~I7~1S~----~8~u~\l~n~~n~·~l8~)~7~4~71~-----------~ iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~p at kearns 
i Tuesday, Octob_er 14, 1975 
Brainwashed America? Not the land of the free and the home of the brave! Oh yes, the land of the free is swarming with federal government fanatics and the home of the brave is hosting a big banquet for bureaucrats. And the frightening thing about all of this is that the average American is convincing himself that this is wonderful. 
If the above paragraph strikes us as exaggerated political rhetoric, then if is worth ourwhile to consider a few of our own political views in comparison with a number of more 'conservative' noti?ns. Not 'conservative' in the sense of reluctance to change, but m the sense of reluctance to change just for the sake of change. After all, we are certainly free to change directions just for its own sake while running in a race, but it obviously does not do much for 
\ 

our chances of winning. 
The most fundamental of these notions is the one of 'why more government?'. Contrary to the current infatuation with govern­ment control, this notion exhibits the attitude of those who are reluctant to submit to the cancerous spread of bureaucracy in this co~nt~y: Unless we a;e unable to handle a particular responsibility as md!v!duals, there IS no need to hand over both the responsibility and corresponding freedom to the federal government. In fact if the situation calls for group action, then why not work as sm'all independent associations? Only if the responsibility is too widely 
distributed' or too many people refuse to act freely on the matter do we_need to tu~n to th_e municipal, state, or federal government agenc1es. There IS nothmg superhuman about these agencies. We need not, and should not, turn all our responsibilities over to them with the naive peace of mind which comes with leaping out of the frying pan. This peace of mind only lasts as long as the duration of our descent before we land in the fire. 
Although the number of manifestations of this confused sub­mission to the "Father Knows Best" freedom-mongers is over­whelming, we may concentrate on one much abused power of the federal_ government, namely the subsidy. There is nothing more degradmg than the federal subsidy. With it, the average citizen has 
been intimidated into relinquishing his liberty time after time. Of course, subsidies are not intrinsically evil. When used as a last J't>sort they are very beneficial and even unavoidable in the names of justice and charity. Certainly welfare subsidies are better than inhu_~an living conditions. But just as certainly, self-supporting fam1hes are better than welfare subsidies. 

P.O. Box Q 
the basis of abilities, be denied Unfortunately, subsidies are no longer considered remedies of
Wasted Ham Irate Alum
employment. Affirmative action last resort. They actually seem to be coming into favor ashowever. has taken a very' remedies. o_f first preference. The citizens of this country aresuspect form.

Saga 

comprom1smg the1r fool heads off. Catholic universities areRather than being a ver­Dt'ar Editor: r~placing ~atholic chapels with "~r~yer rooms" in order to comply balization of a truth which each of 
l>ea•· Editor: w1th reqmrements set for suhs1d1zed dormitory construction. 
us holds, it has become the intent I haven't seen a performance
The Oct. 19th issue of the paper Small businessmen are cra11king out mountains of reports to
ofthe federal government to force like that which took place a week
featured as its lead the now in­federal agencies on their hiring, firing, buying and selling policies 
within all subgroups of the country ago Saturday since we played
famous saga of the Wasted Ham. so as not to lose the big accounts with subsidized institutions. Why?
which receive the funds of the M.S.U. The football game was a
Much furor was caused by the Because the man with the money calls the shots and Uncle Sam is 
general public, the reflection of composition of courageous play by. 
senseless destruction of 540 Ibs. of growing every day as the biggest employer in' the United States
spirit but one of numbers. our team. terrible support by the
questionable canned ham. It was an~. therefore, is rapidly becoming the boss (both directly and
If 51 percent of the populace is student body and one of the worlds 
implied this was some sort of md1rectly) for more and more Americans.
female, 51 percent of your most pathetic displays of coaching.
midnight raid to cover up in­We have to ask ourselves whether or not we want to live our lives
federally funded institution must The players on this year's team
competency of management. If as spineless yes-men or as responsible individuals determined to
be female and similarly for each are better than any others in the
the story had been researched accept the burdens of citizenship with all the rights an duties
minority. Whether or not you have country. (No exceptions l. They
properly I doubt if the decision therein. If we want our children to receive a private education, 
enough applicants to fulfill the are talented and they want to
would have been questioned, at th~n we ~ette~ develop a more equitable tax for parents with
statistics is irrelevant. "What prove themselves. Above all, they 
least not worthy of front page ch1ldren m pnvate schools. If we want to work out our own
about Ph.D.'s entering other are not quitters. But without
sensationalism. After carefully retirement plans, then we better convince our legislators that we do 
sectors of the economy?" (from adequate coaching, they can not
considering the choice of the time not need their programs. In general, if we want to lead our own
your editorial l These people must score. and if you can not score you
consuming task of checking each responsible lives, then we had better assure ourselves that we need
be actively pursued and drafted, if ean not win. Where are all those
can individually against the risk of not change our democracy just for the sake of change. 
you will, into aiding the ad­clutch ballplayers that haveillness to possibly many, to save 
vancement of statisticalm mini­proven they can get that criticalperhaps 300 pounds of meat, it was 
countriel';. third down yardage and catch that
decided to destroy the product. DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

UNCLE SAM WANTS YOU... to needed pass?
Right or wrong it was not the refuse your choice and be a I understand much has been said choice of one man in one hour, but number in his plan. Perhaps many recently about the lack of class inof many over the course of a few of these people, these Ph.D.'s had the Notre Dame student body.
days. 
no intent of ever entering the Notre Dame's trademark throughInitially the accusers of educational arena. How many of the years has been undying spirit. 
mismanagement were the kitchen you are in school for some reason It is very much Un-Notre Dame to workers. We can not even solve which is printed only on some put down anyone's spirit unlessthe problem of getting full 
great cosmic plan? they break the law or are obscene.
productivity out of our own, we are Rhetorically, is such a ''financial C'lass is a fine quality for businessquick to point the finger at another. 
expense" as recruiting faculty or socially directed activities. ButIf this was so important why was "worthwhile" in terms of changing in an athletic events it's a stupidnot Mr. Aronson confronted before the way in which people think? idea. Class is fine if you plan onthe story was given to the Ob­Will a forced change in statistical accepting defeat gracefully. As
st••·,·e•·? Personalities, I am 
makeup alter te attitudes of the far as I'm concerned, if studentsafraid, is the answer. Also, have I people involved toward want class in their activities theynot once witnessed someone ac­
minorities? should take up bridge or knitting.
~use his peers of waste at the The enthusiasm for Saturday's
dinner table, yet it happens every Carl J. Rossi game was excellent for a fieldmeal period
Marion D. Patterson hockey game played at Vassar. If 
Cook's Helper there are sissy's in the crowd that do not want too much noise, that's too bad!

Thank You 
The play-calling was the most pitiful I have seen in my 28 years of

Forced 

watching IRISH football. WhereDear Editor: was Tom Parise when we were on the 2 yard line? The offense as a

Action 

I want to congratulate you for 
whole is just another attempt to
the editorial "Notre Dame Needs 
put a round peg in a square hole.
Dear Editor, Affirmative Action." 
Coach Devine has tried to mold his 
Clear and well-written, it points 
players into his style of play, in­To say the least I was dismayed out very well the incongruity of stead of building his game around by your editorial of October 8. The N.D. ideals with what it does in his players. It's hard to believe intent, that is to say the spirit, of reality. It is perfect!Jt· that this guy was ever a winner. 
affirmative action is a fine one: F.tiPnnf' Matton Harold .John '65 
/tf/1/lTrAS Y(J(J KNOW, TilER£ Ill?£ MANY HI6HLY CHJAU­SO I CAN ASSURE YOU. f/aJ PK£5/PfNT/At AIP&S «JHI?N I'M Otfff£!77N6
1IJIHO R&MIIJN EJ&HINP TH&IR IN 70/KH ()liTH AMERICA, 
• IJ5I<S 1fT THE PIHITE HOIJS& THERE IS SOM/J TOP 
• ATALL. TIMES! TH&R£'5 TAU5NT M/NPIN6 TH/J ~ IXJN ANP PHI/.. AN/J 
SHfP~

-f 808, JIJST 7lJ NAME A fE/Ul 




/records l 
~blues 

Hock bands are something like politicians ·· the longer they stay in the business, the more respected and venerable they hecoml'. Eventually, a rock band will gain the status of a (;.o.R.B. \Grand Old Rock Band). A 
G.O.H.B. can put out really rotten albums, year after year, and still make lots of money off their name and old reputation. The Greatful Dead has been this kind of band. It has been said (and rightly so> that these people have not put out a good original album since "Workingman's Dead" back in 1970. When 
"Blues for Allah"came out, all of us people who had written the Dead off as a G.O.R.B. wt>re quite pleasantly surprised. This is a good original album \half-album actually) that shows that this band can still be a tight. Pnergetic and interesting rock band. Thl' album also showcased a new direction that tlwy are going towards; music in lht> jazz-rock field. Jerry Garcia does not PVl'n touch a pedal stpel guitar in this album hut rather ,plays p('rfl'cl jazz guitar in Pxotic time signatures. 
Tlw album opl•ns with the rocking "Help On thl' Way-Slipknot", sure to become a l'Onl'l'rt standard. The star of this fast-
band. one that has a chorus. for guitarists. 
,

r: 
say1ng no to the 
'1lifl 
\ I . 


machinery of death
\' ·­
d fr. bill toohey 
In one of the most amazing coincidences <and cruelest ironies) of all time, the feast of the Transfiguration falls on Hiroshima Day. Last August 6th was the thirtieth anniversary of the day a bomb carrying a nudear warhead was dropped upon the .Japanese city of Hiroshima. In a blinding flash of light, "with a whiteness no bleacher 011 earth could equal," to use Paul LPhmann's description, "the face of l'arth and sky were so profoundly and radically changed, not only so as never to lw the same again, but so as to make' the dl'struction of that city the point of dppart ure for the blazing of a trail either of darkrwss and death or of light and life for thl' whole of mankind. perhaps even of the world." 
Thl'rl' was a transfiguration at Hiroshima; a transfiguration of presence and powPr in human affairs of such magnitudl• that it meant a point of no n•turn. Tlw catastrophe at Hiroshima resulted in horrifying death for 100,000 of our brothers and sisters, members of the transfigurl'dJPsus, whose feast the church happl'nl'd to be cl'lebrating that very day. As Wl' l'l'll'bratPd the Tr?nsfiguration a fpw Wl'Pks ago, we had in our nuclear stockpill' the l'quivalent of 655,000 Hiroshima-type bombs? Reassuring, isn't it? 
In .John Hl'rsey's lliroshima, one of six 
survivors asks Father Kleinsorge, "If your 
c;od is so good and kind, how can he let 
pt•ople suffer like this?" The priest an­
SWl't'S, "Man is not now in the condition 
(;od intl'nded; he has fallen." There was a 
eonnect ion between that first Tran­
sfigura.tion and Good Friday, thou~h Peter 
eouldn t. comprehend rt; ~nd t~ere rs also a 
connection between Htroshtma and the 
mystical body. And we are part of that 
connection too. . As the poet, Herman 
llagl'dorn. puts It: 
Tht• bomb that fell on lliroshima 
Ft•ll on Anwrica too. 
11 hurst; it shook the land. 
( ;ud ha \'1' nu•t'l'Y on our childrl'n. 
In the thirty years since Hiroshima, the great powers have talked about disar­mament. They have called for disar­manll'nt while planning new weapons. They have denounced each other while budgeting more funds for death. They have talked to us of arms control while making their bombs and missiles more and more deadly. And today the nations of the world are more heavily armed than 
ever. . . . 
Thirty years have past. and It IS still not 
clear to all that war has become a crime 
against humanity. And we have our 
spending priorities so screwed up that our 
annual budgets read like obscenities. For 
example, the United Nations World Food 
Program has an annual budget which the 
lJ .S. Department of Defense alone out­
spends every 14 hours. In 1972 world ex· 
penditures for public education averaged 
$168 per school-age child; world military 
expenditures were $10,405 per soldier. 
Since the end of World War II, the U.S. 
Tuesday, October 14, 1975 

for allah' half an album 
paced song is Jerry Garcia, with his lightning fingers being complimented by rock's finest bassist, Phil Lesh. This Lesh­Garcia combination dominates throughout the whole album, but not without some competition from the newly~xpanded percussion section made up of Bill Kreutzmann and Micky Hart. Micky hasn't played with the band since 1970 so it seems logical to credit some of the change to him. He brings a near-Latin flavor to the percussion in some of the songs. This is most notable in the instrumental "Stronger Than Dirt or Milkin' the Turkey", which is probably the best cut on the album. The songs, "Franklins Tower" and "King Solomon's Marbles", are both good, laid-back types of tunes that the hand has been known to stretch out for over :10 minutes during teir concerts. The side dosed with Bob Weir's "The Music NPver Stopped". Weir, named by Southern jazz-rock guitarist Scott Verner, as "the best damn rhythm guitarist in the business!" is somethmg of an oddity. His music is more rocking and bluesy than the space jazz of the others. It seems as if Bobby should be playing with some other 
has spent $1.3 trillion on military force in the nanw of "national security." The result'? We could be wiped out in less than an hour. So could the Russians. 
Spending $1.3 trillion on weapons means less money and fewer resources for the things we need most. The United States is number-one among nations in military strl'ngth. but we're only number 18 in doctor-patient ratio; number 14 in litl'racy; number 14 in infant mortality; and number 25 in life expectancy. 
Even the job market suffers. Bureau of Labor Statistics figures confirm that Ihousands more jobs would be created by spending the same money on needed mask transit. better schooling and health care and development of new energy sources, not military arms. The B-1 Bomber is perhaps the most ridiculous example of all. the most outrageously expensive military boondoggle every conceived by tlw i'l'Jltagon. In the time the B-1 could fly li,OOO miles to the USSR, there could be four exchanges of nuclear missiles. The B­t would get there five hours after the war was over! If the Air Force gets its way, 244 B-1 Bombers will be built at a total cost of $75 billion--$1,500 for each American family. 
Military spending priorities continue to 
rob our sisters and brothers on this planet of dignity and even of life itself, while eontinuing to fuel the fires of inflation and unemployment. Foreign policies based on fl'ar and mistrusteontinue to foster ever­increasing arms stockpiles. Nuclear arms eontinue to threaten total destruction. Non-nuclear arms continue to be used to repress social change and to preserve patterns of injustice, while carrying the risk of escalation from limited war to total 
nuclear war. 
We cannot wail for the governments to act of their own accord. We know that those who control the governments are trapped in the illusion that militarism can defend the interests of their nations and their peoples. The last thirty years have shown that, without massive public 
pressure, governments will not take a single step toward disarmament. Only after extraordinary international pressure, including mass demonstrations, direct actions, and civil disobedience, did the United States and the Soviet Union finally end the atmospheric testing of nuclear weapons. 
It is we the people who have allowed these military machines to be built, and it is we who can dismantle them by our action. It is in our power to say no to the machinery of death. It is in our power to say yes to life and future. 
In January, 1976, the Continental Walk for Disarmament and Peace will begin on the West Coast and end in Washington, D.C., approximately eight months later. It is sponsored by groups like the Catholic Peace Fellowship, the Catholic Worker, and the Fellowship of Reconciliation. More information on how we can par­ticipate will follow in the months to come. 
w.s. nichols 

an orchestra, and lots of money. I am not saying that Weir is not good, but rather, he should be leading his own band, one that could do his kind of material better than the Dead does it. 
The second side opens up with the mellow "Crazy Fingers", again displaying the versiosoty of Jerry Garcia on the guitar. From that point on, the band goes off on an instrumental space trip. This music is excellent for seances, acid trips, reading Carlos Castenada ro watching 
celestial eclipses. This material is not good or even Interesting rock music. All, "Sage & Spirit", "Blues for Allah", "Sandcastles & Glass Camels", and "Unusual Occurrences in the Desert" demonstrates is that Donna Godchaus is a far better wailer. than singer. 
"Blues For Allah" is a landmark album for the Grateful Dead. It marks a change in their style and material, away from country and western and more towards jazz-rock music. This move will alienate many fans of the Dead, who only think of 
!records/ 
bonnie raitt's 'home plate' 
Bonnie Haitt has a new album out called llonw Platt•. Originally entitled Sah• at llomt•, the album was supposed to signify her l'scape from Jerry Ragavoy's Hit Factory in New York <where she recorded her last album, Strl.'etlights> to her home in LA , where she has recorded this album of songs that she likes by and with her friends. Well, I don't want to be a 
spoil-sport, but perhaps this album would more accurately be called Still on Dl'ck. ·wile Bonnie's back home, the atmosphere has not been a complete cure an the result is a debatable improvement over the admittedly commercial Strl.'l.'tlights. And its going to be a long time between albums. 
Don 'I get me wrong. There are a number of good songs on this album and the production and playing is rather tight. It's just that there is nothing that could be actually called memorable, moving,or l'Xciting. 
The first two songs on each side are rather pleasant. All could be placed in the 
.soul.good-time, funk genre <if there is such a beast l and grow on the mind with each listl'ning. Delbert and Glen's "Sugar Mama" stands out with its wah-wah keyboard intro and Bonnie's slide guitar lines. her only ap earance on guitar on the 
..

oncerts 
jefferson starship at purdue 
The Jefferson Starship performed what people in the rock music world might call a "good concert, man" last Wednesday l'Vening in Purdue before myself, some friends and several thousand Boiler­maker-types. The group played for two and one half hours sticking primarily to Starship material, old and new, with a few Airplane classics at strategic locations. 
The Starship played all of side two of its inaugural album, Blows Against thl' Emllit't>, featuring a lengthy bass solo by Pete Sears, and the mellow "Have You Seen the Stars Tonight," introduced by the chordal piano plunking of David Freiberg. 
Singer Marty Balin, disguised as a casually dressed conga player was almost unnoticeable until his voice became ap­parent on "Somebody to Love" and he became visible to sing "There Will Be Love." 
Conspicuous by his absence from the performance was violinist Papa John Creach. Balin announced to the audience that the old fiddler had "quit the band to record an album--if you want him back, write a letter." 
Highlights of the concert included a fulfilled audience request for "Wooden Ships," and a rendition of the old psychedelic classic, "White Rabbit," featuring a near-perfect <i.e. just like the record> vocal by Grace. Naturally enough, the group performed "Miracles," the Marty Balin tune that is one of the bright spots on today's deary AM radio, and finished with a fierce finale of "Sweeter than Honey" and the Airplane's revolutionary anthem, "Volunteers of Amerika." 
Oversall, the Starship's performance was stellar. Balin's vocalizing was on the this band with respect to "Casey Jones" and cowboy hats. ·well, that band is now gone but a better and longer lasting band has risen from the ashes. Heck, it even gives me hope that some other G.O.H.B.,s. might put out good music again. I mean, l'ven half a good album is better than no good album at all! 
This album was donatl'd hy Mac's 
Hl'cord Hack locall'd at 29:!1! 
1\lishawaka Avl'rllll', South Bf'nd. 
pat small 

album. "Good Enough," written by John and Johanna Hall I of Orleans fame> is a bouncy little tune with a hint of reggae beat. 
Actually, if the slow stuff were on par with the soul,the album would be much more enjoyable. However, this is simply not the case. "Blowin' Away" suffers from an overblown string section. "My first Night Alone Without You" is more of the same. "Hun Like a Thief" has it's 
moments though, particular the weaving accordion of Little Feats Bill Payne. 
I suppose what it all boils down to what you want from Ms. Raitt. Among other things, I prefer the more subtle,simple music of her first three albums, music which was primarily blues and acoustic based. lloml' Platt' seems to strive for a full sound, replete with slick background vocalizing. lots of guitars, horns, and st­rings <whhich I have little tolerance for anyway> and a soul sound for the most 
part. · 
If you aren't too familiar with Bonnie Haiti. you'll probably enjoy this l.p. Howl'ver. if your hooked on her earlier 
work. it may be a mild let down.  Here's  
hoping she'll score on her next  turn at  
bat.  

pat small 

whole brilliant, and hy the end of the concert he was in command of the band, which is pretty good for a fellow who was more or less forced out of the group a few years ago. Grace Slick performed rather remarkably, considering the hard times her voice has fallen on in the past few years. There were moments when she sounded like the Grace of Old. with her familiar Airplane howls and moans. 
Paul Kantner, on the other hand, who assuml•d leadership of the Plane Ship when Marty left, seems to be in a position Balin once was. His presence on the stage is almost insignificant, he is writing less, and he even relinquished his vocal on "That's for Sure" to Balin. His creative days are at a standstill and. in time, may be over. 
The balance of the band--John Barbata on drums, Fr€iberg and Sears alternating on bass and keyboards, and Craig Chaquico on lead guitar are, while not inspiring, highly competent. I suppose comparisons between Chaquico and for­mer Airplane guitarist Jorma Kaukonen \who along with Jack Casady are Hot ') are at once unfair but inevitable. Chaquico is a kid in his early twenties and has proved himself in the studio, but he is simply not powerful enough guitar player that so much enhances the Starship's sound. And without Papa John, the group is without the ragged edge that Kaukonen could provide alone. 
But no matter. It was enjoyable to see and hear an American institution, the remnants of one of the most remarkable San Francisco bands, receiving the popularity they deserve and being able to captivate an audience .on the merits of their new music as well as their old. 

I 
I 
~ 
f 
~ 
I I 
ACTION EXPRESS

I 
sponsored by the OMBUDSMAN SERVICE
I 
Monday thru Friday !}:30 am to 5:00 pm
I 
l\londay thru Thursday 9:00 pm to midnite
I 
phone 283-7638

I l 
(}. Is it possible to take a year off from school and be able to return
t 
without having to go through re-admission procedures?
l I 
A. With the approval of the dean, one can take a leave of absence
I 
for a predetermined period of time and return -without
l 
having to be readmitted. Provisions must be made prior to regist­
i 
ration for the first semester of the leave period, Usually a two­
I 
semester limit is set but longer periods can be arranged with one's
I 
dean.

I i 
Q. l'vt> rt>ct>ntly received my phone bill which includes charges for 
I 
l'alls I haven't made. What should I do?
I 
I 
A. You should call the Indiana Bell business office, 287-5061, and inform them of the mistake. They willthen settle your account. 
t l Q. l'n a girlfriend visiting during the Southern Cal weekend. Is t­I ht•rp somPplacP on campus where she might stay?
I 
I A. Yes, at the Farley Hotel. The phone number is 7180. I I Q. I lin off-campus and would like to buy insurance for my per­
I sonal posspssions. Is there anyone the Ombudsman . would I n•com mt>nd? I 
I 
A. Yes, Jim Duffee, Jr., a local insurance broker. His phone 
number is 287-4344, and address is 1756 Mishawaka Ave. 
I 
6 
the observer Tuesday, October 14, 1975 

Hunger group outlines goals: education, legislation, funds 
b)· Lonnie Luna Staff Reporter 
Educating the community, proposing a Congressional bill and raising funds constitute the major projects for the Hunger Coalition this year. 
The first project is to educate the South• Bend community on the world situation, said AI Sondej, Hunger Coalition chairman 
"This project is to make South Rend people aware of the problem of inequality in a world of limited resources," he explained. 

Sondej continued, "The Coalition plans to reach the local residents through the mass media, religious services, the school systems and businesses. Definite projects have been proposed for each of these sectors, according to Sondej. 
The second major project entails proposing a Congressional bill dealing with federal assistance to foreign eount.ries in the area of development. 
The Coalition advocates that one percent of the current GNP is to be 
the observer 

Night Editor: AI Rutherford A55i5tant Night Editor: Maureen Flynn Day Editor: Don Reimer Copy Reader: Kathy Mi lis Editorials: Ken Girouard Feature5: Tom O'Neil 
Sports: Ernie Torriero Typi5t5: Nurse Tobin, Camille Arrieh, Terri Harlan, l\leil Viii Compugraphic: Martha Fanning Night Controller: Dave Rust Ad Layout: Joe Graif, Anne Peeler 
~ND' 
SMC, 
THEATRE, 

allocated for non-military foreign assistance during its initial year instead of its present three-tenths percent. 
It has also proposed that the bill 
focus on integrated rural 
development programs . with i]l­
termediate • technology through 
mul1;-purpose cooperatives. 
The program should also deal 
more through multi-lateral and 
private agencies rather than 
bilaterally, Sondej said. Aid should 
be concentrated in most severely 
affected nations rather than 
political allies and lean toward 
more grants than loans. 
The bill would enable shared cost 
partnership agreements to be 
established with the recipient 
governnwnt through the private ·and bilateral agencies. 
The proposal ealls fer low ad­
ministrative costs with US AID. 
through the assistance of the 
Overseas Development Council, 
determining which projects are to 
be financed. 
Lastly. positive steps towards 
<'neouraging other developed 
countries to enact similar bills are 
to bP iaken. 
If the Congressional hearings on the world hunger situation are held here during early February of next year as planned, the Coalition would like to introduce this bill to 
the participants, explained Sondej. Later next semester, the 
Coalition plans on enlisting local support for this bill through petitions and letters to show Congressmen the feelings of their constituents, added Sondej. 
The third major project involves fund raising in the South Bend area. The Coalition plans to raise money through religious services. It is also considering a payroll deduction plan, similar to that of United Way, and a telethon. 
All Seats $2 (STD-FAC $1.50) I Season Ticket Still Available Four Plays $7.50 ($5.50 Std-Fac:J 

Trager says 
'Tsetse fly stopped lslain' 
by Joq~e Fern•iro. Staff Heportt>r 
Dr. William Trager of the Rockefeller Institute spoke on African trypanosomiasis and its effect on sub-saharan Africa yesterday afternoon. 
Approximately 200 people crowded into the auditorium of the Galvin Life Science Center to hear Trager describe how this disease has hindered the development of the "dark continent." 
The parasitologist described how trypanosomiasis has contributed extensively to the problems faced by the developing nations on the eontinent of Africa. 
Trypanosomiasis has crippled the cattle-raising industry in t­ropical Africa. 
Any eattle brought into the area in which trypanosomiasis is en­demic rapidly contract the disease and die , thus makmg it virtually impossible to raise cattle in any infested area. 
This leads to a great lack of protein Ill the diets of the African people. 
In addition. large tracts of arable land lie fallow because trypanosomiasis prevents farmers from living m the area. 
"The Coalition conceives of itself as a eatalyst. We cannot do the job by ourselves," Sondej stated. 
"For these ideas to be realized, it will take a-concerned and con­certed effort by the community," he added. 

AND IN 
PERSON 

S0.50 and $5.50 TICKETS ARE STILL AVAilABLE 
Trager observed the failure of the invasion of the Moslems in medieval times was caused, to a great extent, by trypanosomiasis. 
Trypanosomiasis is caused by unicellular organisms which in­vade their hosts bringing about debilitation and eventual death. 
The organisms are transmitted by tsetse flies which bite infected animals and then carry the in­fection to other animals. 
It appears that the end of the spread of Islam was due to the fact that the horses of the invaders died of trypanosomiasis soon after they entered an infested region. 
Trypanosomiasis is endemic in almost all of central tropical Africa. It infects humans, wild animals, and cattle. 
* * * * NOTICE TO OFF-CAMPUS 
STUDENTS -DID YOU END UP WITH LEFT-OVER OFF CAMPUS HOUSING? 
-ARE YOU IN A HIGH CRIME AREA? 
-DOES THAT CERTAIN COED DESIRE YOU TO BE NEARER THE CAMPUS? 
IF YOU ANSWERED YES TO ANY OF THE ABOVE QUESTIONS -MOVE TO 
THE NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS 
WE HAVE A FEW VACANCIES THAT WE WILL RENT FOR $75 PER MONTH PER STUDENT (MINIMUM TWO STUDENTS) 
COMPLETELY FURNISHED TWO BEDROOM APARTMENTS 
* * * * NOTRE DAME AVENUE 
APARTMENTS 
8:00p.m. 

NOTRE DAME 
ACC TICKETS ON SALE DAILY AT THE Arr 
BOX OFFICE 
FROM9AM T05PM 
In humans the disease is more com monty known as African sleeping sickness. Contraction means eventual death if untreated. 
A very high percentage of wild animals are infected with trypanosomiasis. For example, in one survey taken, 70 percent of all giraffes, 15 percent of all gazelles, and 50 percent of all waterbucks sampled proved to be infected. 
In certain cases the disease can be transmitted from wild animals to humans causing extreme dif­ficulties in control of the disease. 
Trager will be speaking on other aspects of parasitology this af­ternoon and tomorrow afternoon. 
Both presentations are scheduled for 4:30 p.m. in the auditorium of the Galvin Life Science C'en ter. 


the plu
George Graves 
now in the Mail Pouch Hoom
appearing 
ROCX GARDIN 
(This weekend -no cover charge with student l.D.) 
HAPPY HOUR Mon.-Fri. 4:00-7:30 LADIES' NIGHT Tues. 8:00-10:00 MEN'S NIGHT Thurs. 8:00-10:00 
EVERY MONDAY-REDUCED PRICES 
ONBHRANDBARD~NKS 
Appropriate attire required for admittance 
...____.......,.,·~. ~Alnerica·THeE s~EAdDQUBoARsTEirs A week ~1.4-i..,._..._.,.....,~L
....._,_.ARKMOR PLAZA, IRISTOL ST. (BYPASS 112) ELKHART 
PIZZAS, SNACKS & SANDWICHES SERVED ANYTIME 
7 ft. TV screen for Monday night football . 

---~ 
~ 
---------------l
~ --­

Tue!>day, vctober 14, 1975 the observer 7 
Apollo-Soyuz crews tour United States 
WASHINGTON (AP> -Crew LPonov, Valeri Kubasov and of the Soviet Union. mt•mbers of the historic Arollo­Amt•riean astronauts Thomas Both the cosmonauts and as­Soyuz joint space mission be­Stafford, Vance Brand and tronauts said the joint space gan a tour of the United States Donald Slayton began their two mission last July -the first on Monday with Soviet Cosmo­wePk tour of the United States Pver with crews from two na­naut Alexei Leonov telling a by holding a news conf~rence, tions _.:: was a success and 
('olumbus Day audience that meeting with President Ford urged that the United States the benefits gained from space and touring the Washington and the Soviet Union continue flight far outweigh the costs. area si~hts. their cooperation in space. Tht>y were to be feted at a Slayton suggested that the "If some time ago the Queen reeeption at the Soviet embassy upcoming U.S. space shuttle 
of Spain had not sponsored the program would be an obvious
Monday night before flying to 
journey of Columbus, we would opportunity for further joint
('h icago Tuesday. They also not have had the opportunity to flights. He also suggested that
will visit Omaha, Neb., Salt Lake City, Utah, San Fran­
llll't't here today," Leo nov told any manned flights to Mars be a nt•ws eonference. cisco. Heno, Nev., Long Beach international ventures. and Los Angeles, Calif., At­Leonov said the two countries "WhatevPr Pxpense has been lanta, <ia., Nashville, Tenn., eould continue to cooperate in 1nadt> to accomplish these and several other cities before 
both manned and unmanned flights and perhaps could work
flights has been brought back eoncluding their visit in New 
many, many t imPs by the prof­York City Oct. 26. 
togPther on a manned space station some day.
its (in knowledge> the in­lie also said the two coun­
dustriPs and the countries have The two flight crews already havl' eompleted a similar tour tries should work closer togeth­
rt'l'Pivt•d." Ill' said. 
After 19 years 
Israel to use Suez Canal 
.JJ<:IWSALEM (i\P> -A for­assurl' the I<.:gypt1ans that the sel and its cargo and impris­
l'ign·n•gistNed freighter will fn•ighter was carrying only ont'd its erew for more than a stt•am from an Israeli port next non-military cargo. yPar. WPPk in the first attPmpt to fer­In both the first Israeli-Egyp­The director-general of Is­rv lsral'li cargo down the Suez tian interim agreement. signed rael's foreign ministry, Avra­(:anal since 1956, government in .January last year. and the ham Kidron, said he expected ot'firials said Monday. second stagP worked out last next week's test of the canal 
Tlw offieials, who are close to month, provisions were includ­clausP to be carried out without l'rinll' Minister Yitzhak Habin, t•d to msure rights of passage incident. said tlw date for passage had for non-military Israeli cargo Israel formally signed the hPl'n spt for Oet. 22 through in­through thP Suez Canal on seeond-stage pact with Egypt 
din•et Israeli-Egyptian contacts third-nation flagships. The pro­last Friday and immediately llll'diated by the United States. visions in the first agreement, began its implemPntation by 
Tlll'y did not disclose what hoWPVl'r, were never imple­surrendPring the Ras Sudr oil­
llag thP vessPl would bP flying nH•ntl'd. fields in the western Sinai 
hut said it would not be an Is­NPxt wt'ek's attPmpt to ferry desert. 
nwli ship and the eargo would lsnwli goods down the eanal .Jerusalem, howPver, has said hi' IIOII·Illilitary. will lw the first since Israel un­it will not begin troop with­
Tlw ship is to disembark suect'ssfully tested a 1956 drawals. to new defense posi­
trom om• of Israel's Mediterra­trnitl'd Nations resolution that tions in the Sinai until Israeli 
nPan ports -Pither Haifa or asstrr·pd thl' Jewish state of ea­eargo successfully navigates 
,\shdod and sail through the nal rights following the Sinai thl' Suez. Military officials say 
Sul'7. watt•rway bound for an campaign of earlier that year. the lsraPii pullback of forces 
East African harbor. officials In that incident, I<~gyptian au­will begin as soon as the cargo 
said. Tlw navigational route thoritiPs seized the Israeli ves-ll•aves the eanal. 
awav from Israel was in­
tPnti;mal. they said, in order to 
raNEMA76-p7e~~~---,
Church official t t speaks against t t 
t ''STAGECOACH'' t
pill for males 
t t VATICAN CITY (AP> -A t Tues and Wed Oct. 14 & 15 t 
leading Homan Catholic theo­logian said Monday the church 
is against the use of con­I 8 and 10 pm Admission $1.00 I trael'ptive pills for men as well as for women. 
L------~a~~----~ 
Pr to avoid the duplication that eome on their tour of the Soviet has characterized the space re­Union and said he was "certain search of the two nations in the the two Hussian cosmonauts past. will be Pqually welcomed in the 
At the White House, Ford told United States." the -two space crews their joint The President presented the mission showed that "there can two cosmonauts with commu­be and there is cooperation be­nication cables from the histor­twl'en the United States and the ic mission. They presented Soviet Union in space," adding, Ford with a letter from Soviet "I hopl' it will be a forerunner Lt•ader Lt•onid Brezhnev and a of what we can do in space and symbol of the joint mission. on parth." Stafford also presented Ford 
Ill> noted the American astro­with a plaque eommemorating !lauts received a warm wei-thP mission. 
PEACH TREE • DINING ROOM • RANDALL' WEDNESDAY NIGHT SPECIAL 

FRIED CHICKEN 
1\1:\SH E I> POT ATOES-SALAD-HOT IUS('liiTS 
WITH THIS COUPON $.05
ALL YOl' CAN EAT FOR FIRST BEER ( WITH DINNI<:H>
$2.70 

ANTONIO'S RESTAURANT AND LOUNGE 
11503 LINCOLNWAY WEST 
1 N OSCEOLA 674 9928 
ENTERTAINMENT 
FRI SAT SUN 
SUNDAY LIQUOR LICENSE 

ANTONIO SPECIALIZES IN ITALIAN-AMERICAN FOOD. SUPE SPAGHETTI, PIZZA,--DELICIOUS STEAKS. AND SEAFOOD 
CLASSIFIED RDS  
WANTED  Help!  Desperately  need  ride  to  Nt>t>d  two  USC  tickt>ts  tor  our  Found:  In  Lib.  basement.  Small  Prott>slant and Jt>wish Studpnts  
NYC area weekend of Oct. 17. Will  sisters.  (Studt>nt  or  GA).  Call  gold airplanP chain. DavP 287-7783.  Wt>  havP  listings  of  no>ligious 
share expenses and driving. Call  Coops or  Pat 1654.  st>rvic£>s  in  lht>  vicinity.  If  in­ 
Nt>ed riders to Bowling Green this  Jen 7248.  Lost:  Blut>  iackt>l.  says  lt>reslpd  ,  slop  by.  OfficP  of  
wt>ekend.  Call  Mike after 6 p.m.'  Nt>Pd lots of Navy GA tix. Don 3755.  Salesianum  Sta!P  Swimming  Campus Ministry, 103 Lib.  
288 0088.  Nt>t>dt>d: GA Soulht>rn Cal lix. Call  Champs. Plt>aSP call Kathy, 4-5335.  
6896.  Nt>t>d ride from Columbus or Cincl  Typing  35 ct>nls  pt>r  pagt>.  Call  
Need USC fix. Call 234-6352.  Ohio  Sun.  Oct.  19th.  Will  share  Found:  1 Cint>ma '75 lickt>t.  9-27.  Dan  272-5549.  
Nt>t>d  4  GA  USC  tickets.  Call  Pxpensps and driving. Collt>en 5202  Call 8118.  
Dt>spera!PIY need 6-10 USC lix. Pay  Got>rgp 3651.  or  Jt>rri 4041.  
wPII. Tom 1795. Ski instructors wanted. Must ski wPII, >'Xpt>rit•nct> not nect>ssary. Will train. Killy Martin. 695-5495 or Royal Vallt>y, Buchanan. Mich. 20 min. from NotrP DamP. NPPd 2 liCki'IS for Gporgia Tt>Ch. Call 1038.  -----------------NPed 5 or 6 GA USC tix. Call Mary Beth 1285. Net>d 5 GA Navy tix. Call 5168. NPedt>d: two GA Southt>rn Cal. tix. Plt>ast> call John at 3467. Nt>ed help of engineering student or prof. in dt>vt>lopment of simplt>  Dspt>raiE'IY nt>Pd 2 GA tix tor Soulht>rn Cal. Call Bob 3665. FOR RENT Two furnisht>d rooms. Aparlmt>nt for fPmalt>. Utilitit>s paid. $65. 289­8727.  Lost 1 watch with black band by rt>tlt>cling pool Fri. night. Call Mary 2145. Lost: 1 pair gold, wirP rimmt>d qlassps at St. Mary's bt>IWPPn Lt>Mans and lht> dining hall. Call 234-6352. Found: On North Quad Half grown whitt' cal with grPY smudge  HUSTLE UP FOR 15 GREAT HUSTLE STEPS TAUGHT IN LAFORTUNE BALLROOM EACH & EVERY TUES. & WED 3·5. ALSO TUES. EVE. 7:30-9:30. WALK IN TO ANY OF THESE CLASSES ALONE GROUP OR COUPLE. FACULTY,STAFF,ST UDENTS ALWAYS WELCOME. $2 EACH CLASS.  
NPt>d rid!' to Slrt>alor. Ill. on Oct.  invention. Call Mario Rivt>ra, 7735  on hE'ad. Call 1314 or 1618.  
171h or 24th. Will sharP I'XpPnSPS. Call Marybt>lh 4444. DPSpt>ralt>IY nl'l'd 1 USC and Navy lickt>l. Call Pam 4 4161. Good monPy paid tor any homP I ickt>IS. Call John 1816. Nt>t>d 2 Bt>ach Boy tix. Call 287­0742.  or 7736, lt>avt> mt>ssage. NPt>d four GA tix tor GE'orgia TE'ch qamP. Call 4-5740. NPt>dE'd: 2 GA lix for Ga. Tt>ch qamP. Call Lisa, 8089. -----NPPd 2 Bt>ach Boy lix. Call John 1800. Despt>ratt>ly nt>ed 1 USC tickt>t.  For Rent: Large room in studt>nl's houst> near Corby's. 618 51. Pt>tt>r St. $60 pE'r month. All chargt>s included. "Rent my upstairs 2 rooms. $50. 233-1329. KPPp trying." 3 bt>droom houst> nPar N.D. Avt>nut>. Apartments complt>tely turnisht>d · suilablt> tor 3, 4 , or 5 studt>nts. Call 272-7656 or 272-6358.  Lost: Small male puppy. Black with while chest. Leeper Park area. Oct. 11. NEEDS MEDICATION. Reward. 233-9122. Lost: 1 set of kE'ys on ring in front of Galvin. PI Past> rt>turn to Biology olficP in Galvin. NOTICES  PERSONALS FANTASIA. THE JR. CLASS FORMAL. TICKETS GO ON SALE IN STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE TODAY. RoSP Darlin' Only 65 shopping days till Christmas. Y.I.B.D.M.  
Nt>t>d 2 or 4 GA USC tix. Call Jt>an  Will pay wt>ll. Call Mark 1474.  USC tix for salt> at cost. Call  
7034. Ft>mall'  houst>mall'  wanted.  Two  Nt>Pd ridt> to MilwaUkPP (or Chi.) on Oct. 10 or Oct. 17. Will sharP  FOR SALE  LPgal Aid: For Eligible NO-SMC studt>nls. Under supt>rvision of al­ 283-6729 anytiml'. Mary Kay.  Ask  for  
blocks from  Angt>la.  Call  after  5  t>xpenses. Call Cindy 5486.  tornt>y.  ComP  to  University  
pm.  289~4303.  Dt>sppratE'Iy  nE'E'd  ridt>  to Dayton.  Quality s!Prt>o compont>nts at 20 · 40 pt>rct>nt savings. RMS Audio, 321  rt>ft>rrals. 7795.  LISA  &  LISA,  PATTY,  SALLY,  
NPed SSS? I need 2 GA USC lix. Call Brian 3260.  Ohio. 4634.  Wt>t>kt>nd  of  Oct.  17. Lisa  S. Main, 288-1681 12-7 pm. Sansui modt>l 4000 stt>reo rt>ceiver.  Wanlt>d: GaragE' in vicinity Corby's. Call Davp 287-6493.  of  GINGER, DEBBIE, CRAZY JANEY AND ALL THE OTHER A.G>s OF BASSETT: THANKS  
HPip! NPed 2 GA tix for Gt>orgia Tt>ch. Call Mike G. 1624. DPSpPraiPIY nt>Pd 2 GA Navy lix. Mont>y no object. Call John 1462.  I'm looking for tour good SPats to tht> Bt>ach Boy conct>rl. Call Mike aflpr 6 pm. 288-0088. Net>d 3 USC lickPIS. Call Mikt> allt>r  45 w pt>r channel. Perfect dil'ion. 234-4824. Evt>nings. LOST & FOUND  con­ Typing tormPr PXPcutive st>crt>lary , t>xpt>riPnced in senior pssays, dissPrtations. 232-5715. Accura!P, fast typing. Mrs.  LOADS . WE HAD A SUPER TIME! Y'ALL COME BACK NOW HERE! JOE & TOM  
6 pm' 288-0088.  Donoho. 232-0746.  


the observer Tuesday, October 14, 1975 
ND aquires rare sports literature 
by Tom Kruczek the sense of being a collection of books, \ documents, and other literary material 
Tucked behind the rare book collection pre-eminently concerned with historical and next to campus ministry in the library and statistical research." is a small office occupied by just one man. Research is the key to what the sports In the office and the storage place below is and games collection is,and it's services what has been conservatively called the are available to any student or person eit­most extensive collection of sports her from the University or from outside materials in the world. It is also probably Notre Dame who is intereseted in serious the least known department in the research in sports. Numerous people have university, not to mention the most myst­in recent months used the department's erious. collection, including author Jerry Bran­
The official title of the office.1is the In­field who is doing a book on Knute Rockne. ternational ·Sports and Games Research Also Notre Dame professor Marshall Collection. headed by Herb T. Juliano and Smelser has used the department in since taking over from Donald Grant in writing a book entitled The Life Ruth Built, July. Juliano has been averaging a 14 hour and it will go into the Sports and Games work-day, 7 days a week. Why is he put­Collection. People from as far away as ting in these hours? Japan and Italy hav.e come to pursue 
.Just after taking the position in July, serious research in sports. 1\:otre Dame became aware of the opport­Juliano envisions the department unity to purchase a collection of more than initiating research on its own, besides a million rare and irreplaceable items aiding other people in doing studies. Two dating back to 1812 from Goodwin Gold­projects have been suggested, with one of fadden of Adco Sports Book Exchange. them coming from Dr. Leslie Bodnar, Two trips to Los Angeles later, the football team physician who is president­collection belonged to Notre Dame for a elect of the American Orthopedic Societ­price tag of $100,000. Y.and who would like to see a convention at 
$100,000 may seem like a lot for a Notre Dame that will investigate how in­collection of old magazines, however the juries can be prevented in sports. collection has a retail value of over The other project Juliano mentioned was $500,000, with the number of hardbound a convention looking into the theology of just about anything we would like to sell. .~otre DamP and the emotion that goes 
1\'ith working with historical objects." At t­hooks alone totaling in excess of the sports that would investigate the essence We are selling our doubles, with Notre hat .Juliano brought out the front page from 

$100.000 paid. The Goldfadden inventory of the competitions. ''If possible we could • I>anw getting half of the profits and the contained thousands of baseball use a think tank forum, arid everyone department getting the other half, which the first Notre Dame football game 
program that occured in April of 1888publications. one or two complete sets of S­invitPd could toss in ideas to be discussed will enable us to purchase other things we 

would like." against Michigan with J .E. Cusack listed
Sports lllustrated.of which Notre Dame and in the end a paper summarizing the appeared on the cover 14 times, a conclusions of te group could be written," This is also the first year that Juliano will as the starling quarterback, the first two collegiate high, approximately 25,000 Juliano commented. "These sort of have a budget to work with. The Gold­
actual games look place a year before in press guides. a complete set of Sporting things.along with such ideas as the curt­fadden collection was purchased because a 1!1!17 against Michigan in what was billed 1\:t>ws: · ailing of violence in sports can't be an­donor. provided the money with the intent 
as an "introductory" game to introduce all in all over one million items came to the swered by solely looking at books, but that it would go only to the purchase of the football to Notre Dame. 
"We have a great potential here at theNotre Dame collection,taking· three 40 foot more research has to be done and the collection. 

sports and games department, although Itrailers to bring the 56 tons of materials to logical place to do that research would be Several boxes in Juliano's office contain would like to see the word department

Du Lac. at the sports and games department where items that have recently come to the dropped. with the word foundation addedWhat then is to beocme of this the resources are available." university. thanks to the publicity the in its place. which would be what we reallymonumental amount of material, which is At the present time, Juliano and three department has been getting since July. 
need to get the research under way here."

an addition to approximately 1600 sq. ft. of student assistants are trying to sort over "John Evers Jr. (son of Chicago Cub in­"We're not trying to be number one ormaterial already in library storage? the Goldfadden collection and answer the fielder John Evers from Tinkers-to ­anything like that here at the office,what­"First of all we are not a museum," inquiries that have been received as a Evers-to Chance fame l has sent us books t-ver that might be. We want to do whatJuliano said. "And we are not the place result of the publicity of the purchase. from his father that date back to 1911 was intended to be done with ourwhere all old photo's and plaques go and "We've had letters from people and which include books from Branch Rickey materials. we want something here thatwe won't be settling bar-room visits to the office from people who would as well." 
Notre Dame could be proud of. We want to

We are, however a library in like to buy doubles of papers, programs or Juliano is no stranger to the world of. . sports. playing for three years. in the go a step further, and initiate sports 
projects and much good will come out of it baseball Philadelphia Athletic's system, in the promotion and investigation ofannouncing Notre Dame football on the sports."

first network to carry the Irish over the radio and he has written a critical book on It only seems fitting somehow. that baseball. A Whole New Ball Game: The Notre Dame. with the proud athletic Future of Baseball and Baseball of the tradition that it possesses should have the Future. most extensive sports library in the world. 
· So when he talks about sports, its more Someday. if the fate shines on the than as just a casual observer. "Sports university and a donor can be found, then a play a great part in our culture, and with separate building will be available to the department we have the chance to house the collection. Juliano concluded, determine its relationship to the world in "It will fulfill a need for a live, com­general. Also we can discuss and search prehensive research resource in the out what is wrong in sports and try to rapidly and intensively expanding world of abolish it. We can try t01bring out the true sports and games." (•ssence of sports and see what it all 
Notre Dame has benefited much from

means." 
athletic competition,now is the time for the Anyone who is surrounded by such a University to return something from whchsense of history, has to be affected by it. 

it gained so greatly.

"Sure. I'm very aware of tradition here at 

Five interhall football games took place Sunday afternoon. 
Keenan defeats Flanner 
*Observer
punt. Quarterback Matt Rat­Hohman. Fisher which wasby Lou Severino terman had a hand in both Grace hampered by numerous penalties 
touchdowns one a 58 yd. pass to could not mount an offense against lnterhall football completed its Pete McCarthy and the other a 1 Sorin which has given up only 6:lrd Sunday yesterday with a slate yd. run on the last play of the points in 3 games. 
of 5 games. In the big game of the game.

day Keenan defeated Flanner 6-2 Alumni 1:1 Morrissey 0 
Sports
Keenan 6 Flanner 2

to become the league's only un­, Alumni's first touchdown came beaten team. Defense was the name of the on a 35 yd. pass from Chris lloly Cross 14 Cavanaugh 6 game for Keenan as they took over Meagher to Dan Bradford. Terry first place in the North quad. The Salazar's kick made it 7-0. Alumni
Holy Cross scored all their points Keenan defense led by AI Sondej, closed out . the scoring asin the first half to beat Cavanaugh. 

Bill Jacobitz, Don Bishop, Pat linebacker Mike VanAcker in­
Quarterback Mickey Land hit 

Theismann spurs 'Skins 
Concannon and Steve Jones held tercepted a pass and rambled 38Steve Iandolo on a 40 yard pass for Flanner to a measly 23 yds.
the initial score. Larry Mcreif yards for the score. WASHINGTON <AP) -· Joe 17-17 tie and enabled the Redskins then ran for the two points. Holy rushing in addition to sacking the Theismann shocked St. Louis with to raise their record to 3-1 and stay Cross made it 14-0 on a 1 yard Flanner quarterback 7 times. The NORTH W-L PF PA a 30-yard scoring pass to John one game back of unbeaten Dallas 
Keenan offense came to life in the
.· plunge by Chuck Nowland . Keenan 3-0 24 8 Pergine on a fake field-goal at­in the National Conference East. 
second half, driving 65 yds. in 11 tern pt and rookie Mike Thomas
Cavanaugh averted a shutout when Stanford :H 39 :12 
Matt McGrath hauled in a 32 yard plays for the decisive score which Flanner 2-1 35 12 hulled his way for two touchdowns Blue line club 
pass setting up a 3yard T .D. run by came on a 17 yard pass from John Holy Cross 2-2 27 20 to lead the Washington Redskins to 
meeting slated

Larry Morris. Stu Robertson, Feeney to Jeff Sullivan. Flanner Zahm 1-2 13 20 a 27-17 victory over the Cardinals scored their points late in the
Steve Gaylib and Joe Anders all Grace 1-3 30 47 Monday night. The Notre Dame Blue Line Club 
fourth quarter as Keenan, behind
played well defensively for Holy favanaugh 0-3 14 33 Theismann's touchdown strike will hold its annual meeting on Cross. excellent coaching strategy, and Thomas' 100 yards rushing in Wednesday, October 15th at 7:30 in 
elected to take a safety rather than the nationally-televised National
SOUTH W-L PF PA the University Club, next to the
Stanford 20 Grace 12 punt from their own end zone. Football League game overcame CCE. Last years' members andStanford jumped to a quick 6-o Sorin 20 Fisher 0 Pangborn 2-1 27 12 an electrifying 93-yard scamper by new applicants are welcome.
Sorin

lead in the first quarter when 2-1 26 6 Terry Metcalf with the second-half 
Keefe Montgomery ran 54 yards Sorin moved into a 1st place tie Morrissey 2-2 50 31 kickoff and a 48-yard pass fromwith Pangborn by shutting out B-ball tryouts 
for the score. Two minutes later Alumni 2-2 20 10 Jim Hart to Mel Gray for the 
an interception by John Thornton 1-1-1 12 19
Fisher. The Sorin points came on a Dillon There will be varsity basketball
Cardinals' two touchdowns. 
set up Bill Blum's 28 yd. run. Blum 70 yd. run by Mike Chute, a 1 yd. Off-Campus 1-1-1 8 12 tryouts on Wednesday, October
Thomas' second touchdown of 
closed out the Stanford scoring plunge by Mike Romanell and a 25 Howard-St. Ed's 1-2 12 42 the game, coming with 10:58 15th at 4 p.m. Bring all practice 
yd. pass from Romanell to Rich Fisher gear.
wi1h a 6yd. run set up by a blocked 1-2 8 33 remaining in the game, snapped a 






