


SMC student raped on road 
by Terry Ket>ney Editor in Chief 
A St. Mary's student was raped Sept. 16 while walking alone on the road between Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
James Roemer, Notre uame dean of students, reported Friday that the incident occurred about 11:30 p.m. near the cemetery and Holy Cross Hall along the road to St. Mary's. 
The unidentified victim was driven back to St. Mary's by St. Mary's Security and was subsequently taken to a local hospital for tests. 
The victim was later interviewed by a female member of the Notre Dame Security. 
Hoerner said that local law enforcement officials were notified of the rape "a con­siderable time after" the incident occurred. There was a time lag because Roemer had not yet developed a policy for reporting such incidents to the police. 
"It will be our intent to contact local Jaw enforcement agencies immediately," Hoerner said in his new policy. "Rape is a very, very serious crime." 
Hoerner said that no arrests have been made in the case. 
Stevie Wernig, assistant to the vice presideent for Student Affairs at St. Mary's, said last night that St. Mary's would not comment on the incident. 
• Assault near lake 
Roemer also reported an alleged assault and battery against a St. Mary's student on Sept. 23. 
According to preliminary reports, a St. Mary's woman was assaulted by one or more males about 11 p.m. in the vicinity of Lake Road and Old College. 
The case has not been turned over to local law enforcement Roemer said. "I am not sure at this point if a crime was com­mitted," he said. 
Safety measures 
Both Roemer and Wernig suggested that women returning to St. Mary's at night avoid walking and take shuttle buses. 
Roemer said that if women cannot take shuttle buses, they should walk in groups.
"The idea of walking singly late at night should be discouraged, based on past ex­
perience," Roemer said.
Wernig urged St. Mary's students who miss the shuttle buses to call St. Mary's Security for a ride to campus. 
"I think most people think, 'It (rape) will ,n_e_v_e_r_h_a..;p..;p_e_n_t_o_m_e_·_·_·_w_e_r_n..;ig;;...sa_i_d_.. __, 
-
•
The new band uniforms went on parade for 
the first time Saturday. At least this baritone player appears satisfied with the 
Replaces Pagna 

Cackley named alumni head 
by Marianne Schulte Starr Reporter 
John N. Cackley, Chicago regional director of development for Notre Dame, has been appointed executive director of the University's Alumni Association. 
Cackley's appointment was announced by Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, president of the University, at the first of three annual Alumni Association meetings held this past Alumni Association weekend. 
"In the 14 years John Cackley earlier spent at Notre Dame, he was deeply in­volved in alumni affairs," Hesburgh said, "and since that time he has supervised alumni relations at three other educational institutions. We welcome him back to campus with complete confidence that his experience will provide leadership of which our 55,000 alumni can be proud." 
Between 1947 and 1961, Cackley assisted James E. Armstrong, executive secretary of the Alumni Association, in virtually every facet of the office. He was managing editor of Alumnus magazine for five years and editor of Notre Dame for 12 years. He was involved in servicing the Notre Dame alumni clubs across the nation and helped coordinate such Association activities as the June reunion and the spring Universal Notre Dame nights. 
Since leaving Notre Dame, Cackley has held development positions at Fairleigh Dickinson University, Rensselaer Polytechnkc Institute, Georgian Court College, and Allentown College of St. Francis de Sales. He was also ad­ministrator of the Laymen's Retreat League of Philadelphia. 
Cackley is a 1937 graduate of Notre Dame, and one of his eight children, Philip, is a freshman at the University. 
Uirector of the Alumni Association 
The purpose of the meeting was to help improve relations between the students and alumni by informing students of the programs and activities sponsored by the 
alumni. "We are striving to make the alumni 
association a more visual organization here on campus," explained Jack O'Brien, president of the association. "In the past, organization. Changing some of the procedural formats for the programs is not a case of rescuing a floundering ship; we are already strong and getting stronger." 
"With sixty thousand people spread out over the world, the student has got to realize that we are the most sacred group around here," commented Ed Bracken, member of the Alumni Board. 
As Hesburgh pointed out, Notre Dame grads are disperesed throughout every country across the world: "Only. a few weeks ago I ran into three Notre Dame grads at eleven-thirty at night on Red Square in Moscow." 
The alumni view their primary function to be "getting the student through the university." Bracken explained that the future of private education in the United States is downhill. " tuition here is 

John Cackley, the new Alumni Association director. 
very high, it is still not enough to cover the cost of the individual student. The con­tributions of the alumni help the student indirectly by covering such costs as heating the dorms and class buildings." 
Through recruiting programs in large cities as well as remote town<;, the alumni stirve to contact many well-qualified students and encourage them to apply to Notre Dame, they help students to recognize Notre Dame as a realiz~able goal, instead of "an ivory tower somewhere off in the plains of Indiana." 
In conjunction with the recruiting programs, the accepted students are invited to a freshmen send-off party sponsored by the alumni association in that city or district. 
Scholarship programs funded by alumni contributions enable many less fortunate but equally qualified students to attend the university. 
Ticket Misconception 
Many students have the attitude that the Alumni Association is waiting with its hand out for a contribution before it graciously bestows the gift of football tickets. Bracken explained that there is no way to cope with the ticket situation other than the present lottery system. 
In this system, each contributing alum­nus, no matter how small or large his contribution, is given an equal chance in a ticket lottery for the game of his choice. "A. a university where each year there are 1600 graduates, most of whom wish to come back for football weekends, there is no other way to satisfy all requests for tickets without expanding the stadium." said Bracken. 
Post-game entertainment for the alumni is sponsored by the association at booths for each graduating year in the A.C.C. Alumni are also indirectly responsible for some of the students' post-game celebrating as well, as the license for the Senior Bar belongs to the association. 
As Joe White, Alumni Board represen­tative to the Student Body pointed out, "Even through all the griping, the old ND spirit is still there. You just don't realize how good it is until you get out of this place." 
'there has been too little input and we are 

though of more in terms of a fund-raising n e 'W proposals discussed 
Judicial Board examined; 
by John Feeney Staff Reporter 

One of the most misunderstood and least known bodies in hall politics and student affairs is the Judicial Board. 
The only time students are ever aware of its existence, is when a scandalous case is publicized, and then the references to the J­Board are usually angry and vindictive. Students are not conscious of the integral part every Judicial Board is capable of playing within the University. 
The role of the board, as defined by the University in Du Lac, is to consider the cases of students subject to any disciplinary action "against the good order of the hall community." John Lonsberg, campus judicial coordinator, believes that "DuLac 
. is being ignored." 
Lonsberg sees "punishment and disciplinary action" as the "primary duty of ~-the board." He would like to see the em­
--phasis switched so that the Judicial board would become a viable body within the hall, assuming "consultative functions" on legal matters, such as overseeing contracts and elections. 
Mary Ellen Keenan, assistant Judicial coordinator, stated that "we're suggesting a model plan for all halls to follow, because we know that there are discrepancies within each system, and, in fact, some halls don't have a board at all." 
Lonsberg stated that halls not having their own boards "could be dangerous ,. .~ ' because there would be no option for a '-__· f •n;...-·-. student ot~er than to be judged by the 
_.·r-rector, w1th no recourse or real due 
·.· process." A plan calls for members to be , · elected through an interview process, with · their term to last throughout their stay . . . within the hall, thus achieving a "continuity
eth~IC flavor of the suits. (Photo by Chris in experience level that would facilitate a Smith) more efficient system." As members graduate or move off campus, "the em­
phasis on selecting new members would be toward choosing freshmen." 
Essential to any successful judicial board is the cooperation of the hall rector. Du Lac sta~es that "students subject to disciplinary actiOn may choose to have their cases considered by the rector, provided the rector accepts ... otherwise they will have their cases considered by the Hall Board." This means that the student has a choice in the matter, a fact that many hall rectors refuse to consider. 
No credence can be given to a judicial board that is constantly undermined by it's rector. Keenan believes that "students must be sure they will be judged fairly by both parties and that they do in fact, have a choice in the matter." 
"As it stands now," said Lonsberg, "the rectors have no confidence in their boards due to inexperience, and are unwilling t~ bring the cases up." 
Both Keenan and Lonsberg have been impressed with the new Dean of Students. Lonsberg stated that "he could sense a willingness on the part of the ad­ministration, and Roehmer in particular, to have the hall J-Boards handle more cases, even J?OSSibly violations . of University regulations." Lonsberg contmued by saying that Roehmer was "constantly asking students for their advice and opinion about subjects pertinent to his position." 
Keenan added, "I think it's good that he is a Iaw_yer, because he has a sensitivity for certam cases that a layman wouldn't possess." 
Lonsberg stated in conclusion that "the biggest problem we have right now is the fact that people are unaware of the role of the J-Board. We're in the process of selecting the campus wide board and once thatis accomplished and the early ad­ministrative business completed, we can go full ahead and hopefully strengthen our current system." 




r 
I 
I 
Monday, September 29, 1975

2 the observer 
::;;;:::;::::::::;~~~~:::;:::::;:::;;:;;:;;;;;;:;;:;;:;;;;;;:;;:;;:;;;;;;:::;::~Fight over natural gas 

warld briefs 
NEW YORK <AP ) -Convicted Watergate conspirator E. Howard Hunt says he never was ordered to assasinate columnist Jack Anderson-only to drug him, according to Time magazine. 
Hunt says he was ordered by then White House r•msel Charles Colson to administer a drug to Anderson before one I)( ~: · \lve radio appearances and "cause him to ramble incout:.cntly," the magazine says in its current issue. Colson hotly ~onied ever hearing of such a plan, Time said. 
WASHINGTON <AP) -The Central Intelligence Agency took issue Sunday with a comment by the chairman of the House In­telligence Committee that American intelligence has become ineffective and might not be able to warn the country of impending attack. 
"If an attack were to be launched on America in the very near future it is my belief that America would not know that the attack were about to be launched," Rep. Otis Pike, D-N.Y., said on CBS's ''Face the Nation," when asked his assessment of U.S. intelligence. 
"Mr. Colby has said before and repeats today that American intelligence is the best in the world," a CIA spokesman said. 
NEW ENGLAND <AP) -With the sun shining brilliantly and rivers and streams receding, the cleanup began Sunday throughout the Northeast after hurricane-spawned flooding that left at least 10 dead and drove thpiusands from their homes from Virginia to New England. 
an campus taday 
3:00 p.m.---lecture, "lacopo bellini" by prof. marcel roethelsberger, unlv. of generva, switzerland. art gallery O'shaughnessy hall, sponsored by art department and art gallery. 
7:00 p.m.---meeting, chess club, rm 227 math & comp. center. 
8:00 
p.m.---inter-religious dialogue, "sanctity of human life In the light of contemporary violence" by rabbi leo m. abraml, beth-el congragatlon, berkley; rev. george b. grose, national council of chruches & dr. a. mushln el-blall, Islamic foundation, california. library auditorium sponsored by campus ministry and theology. 

8:00 
p.m.---perspective series in philosophy, "philosophy and the problem of rationality" by stephen toulmln, university of chicago. galvin life center auditorium. sponsored by philosophy dept. 9lso oct. 1 and 3. 

8:00 
p.m.---women's discussion meeting. library lounge. 


Iranians boast win over Saudis in oil price talks 
VIENNA, Austria (AP) Iran claimed a victory Sunday over Saudi Arabia as members of the 13-nation oil cartel head­ed home after a tumultuous ministerial conference that raised crude oil prices by 10 per cent. 
The increase, effective Wednesday, was a compromise reached after four long days of haggling between Saudi Oil Minister Sheik Ahmed Zaki Yamani and a group of coun­tries led by Iranian Oil Minis­ter Jamshid Amouzegar, some of whom initially wanted in­creases as high as 35 per cent. 
Yamani came into the confer­ence of the Organization of Pet­roleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) favoring continuation of the existing freeze and later tried to hold the increase to 5 per cent. 
OPEC's new price for ben­chmark Arabian light crude of $11.51 a barrel -up from $10.46 -is expected to add about a penny a gallon to U.S. gasoline and fuel prices. OPE;C decided to freeze prices at the new level for nine months. 
Amouzegar said in an inter­

I' 
' 
I. 
I. 
backing of most of the Arab countries and other OPEC members in the dispute with Saudi Arabia, which is OPEC's largest single exporter. Iran is second.. 
He said other Arab delegatestold him Yamani's career had been hurt by his "fixed, rigid, inflexible" position in the nego­tiations. 
Amouzegar defended his own "moderate" stance by explain­ing that some countries wanted a 20 per cent increase and "a great many" sought 25 per cent. Iran, however, had in­dicated it was willing to settle for 15 per cent. Amouzegar said the final 10 per cent figure was closer to his 15 than to Yam­ani's opening near-zero de­mand. 
"The Iranian proposition, which was a reasonable one, was accepted almost in toto," Amouzegar said. 
He said Iran was able to mobilize a bloc of nine nations on its side by the use of two or three alternate price proposals. He said these were mapped out in twice-daily conver­

Senate to debate energy bill 
WASHINGTON <AP) -The Senate opens debate this week on an emergency bill aimed at avoiding a major shortage of natural gas this winter. But a ~attle over long-range gas. pric­mg threatens to delay actlon. 
The fight over natural gas could go on for weeks, but in the meantime Senate-House conferees will be putting the fi­nal touches on a fuel-con­servation bill that will be the congressional answer to Presi­dent Ford's energy program. 
However the natural gas question is settled, consumers will face higher prices. 
While the Senate seeks a 
compromise on natural gas leg­
islation, the House will devote 
m1:1ch of its time this week to a 
$111.9 billion defense spending 
bill and matters dealing with 
go vernm en t intelligence 
agencies. 
The House Appropriations Committee chopped $9 billion from the Pentagon's defense re­quest, including a cut of $344 million in funds for the Central Intelligence Agency and other intelligence operations. 
In the past the total appro­priation for such agencies has been keot secret. but Reo. Rob-


China lauds 
a 


OPEC hikes 
TOKYO (AP) China praised the 10 per cent price in­crease by oil exporting nations as a victory against "super­power intimidation" by the United States and the Soviet Union. 
"The superpower denuncia­tion of the price readjustment is completely groundless," the official Hsinhua news agency said Sunday. 
President Ford said the price hike, announced Saturday by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, would worsen worldwide inflation. 
U.S. Energy Administrator Frank Zarb said the move was "outrageous." There has been no official Soviet comment. 
The Observer 1S published Monday through Friday and weekly during the 5ummer session. except dur,ng exams and vacal•on periods The Observer 1S publ<shed by the students of lhe Univ of Notre Dame and 51 Mary's College 
Subscropt,ons may be purchased tor 10 dollars per semester ( 18 dollars per year) from The Ob server. Box Q. Notre Dame. In d1ana. 46556 Second Class postage pa1d. Notre Dame, IN 46556 

HAWAIIAN NIGHT TUESDAY $3.45 
Boar's Head brings the Islands to you. At less than Island prices! Delicious Hawaiian chicken dinner is only $3.45 per person plus tax. Includes Tropical fruit salad, wild rice, and sweet and sour sa~.ce. Also: Boar's Head Salad Bar, hot bread, ice cream or sherbet, and coffee, tea, or milk. All for only $3.45 We're doing the whole place Hawaiian on Tuesday. Aloha. 

BOAR'S HEAD® 

RESTAURANTS 
52885 U.S. 31 North in South Bend 

ert N. Gaimo, D-Conn., said he that the natural gas shortagewill seek to have the figure could be eased if Congress made public this year. would give his agency authority 
A larger battle may loom to lift price controls on a spot over the administration effort basis. to withhold classified material But a Getty Oil Co. report, from the House Intelligence considered by the company to Committee. The full House may be a confidential internal docu­be asked to give a vote of con-ment, forecast a 430 per cent fidence to the committee's ef-increase in the price of new forts to obtain the data. Such a natural gas if price controls are vote could be followed by a for-lifted. And it predicted a steady mal contempt citation against rise in prices even if controls top government officials, possi-are maintained. bly including Ford. The majority of Senate 
Also before the week is out Democrats would prefer to the House could resolve the avoid the fight over long-range long-standing dispute over natural gas pricing until the whether to lift the arms embar-emergency legislation is ap­go against Turkey. proved. But Republicans and 
And the International Rela-senators from energy-producing tions Committee may approve states want to tie the two mat­a bill authorizing American ci-ters in the same bill. vilians to be involved in peace-.---------------., 
keeping in the Middle East. 
In taking up the natural gas bill the Senate is resuming its dispute with the administration over energy prices. Ford wants price controls removed from most domestic natural gas, just as he wants to gradually elimi­nate controls on all U .S.-pro­duced oil. 
Congress has refused to go along with Ford on oil prices, and, while there is general agreement that there is a natu­ral gas shortage, it appears un­likely the President will get his way here either. 
Federal Power Commission Chairman John N. Nassikas told a House committee Friday 
Six Concert Package , 



SOUTH BEND SYMPHONY 
Student Prices $10, $8, $6 


NOW ON SALE 
Student Union Ticket Office 

TODAY -FRIDAY 






HIGH 

ADVENTURE 
STARTS AT 
2500 FEET 
v
CRAWFORDSVILLE PARACHUTE CENTER 

• 
First jump course • only 3 hours $40 


• 
World's largesl and safest parachute company 

• 
Over 250,000 jumps • Our 17th year 

• 
Free brochure ~'.ll RR No. 7 Municipal Airport (01 Crawfordsville, Indiana 47933 1:n Phone: 317-362-8253 





-------~--------. 
Monday, S_eptember 29, 1975 the observer 3 
Huddle starts new service system 
service, offering thirty kinds of hot or five different sandwiches, together in the morning, for faster Groton said the Huddle plans to
by Maggie Waltman 

and cold sandwiches every day. alternating daily. The sandwiches line servie when the lunchtime "concentrate on a few 'football Staff Reporter The employees had to be ready to are both meat and non-meat and rush begins. specialties,' including a football make all thirty kinds. As a result, range in price from 40 cents to 80 The sandwich menu will be tray consisting of a Double Huddle 
the customers had to wait while the cents. posted every Monday so customers burger, french fires and a coke."
Notre Dame food services has 
sandwiches were prepared and According to Groton, ham­will know in advance which items By limiting the menu before the
made some changes in the 
wrapped. burgers, cheeseburgers, and hot will be offered for the week. football games, Groton said the
operation of the Huddle. The most 
The Huddle is trying to get away dogs, the three biggest-selling Changes will also be made for customers will be able to "buy
important is the conversion to a 
from the short order system items in the Huddle, will be in­Football Saturdays, starting Sept. something filling and fast, without
limited daily selection of sand­
because according to Groton, "this cluded on the menu every day. 27. During the 9 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. waiting in line."
wicheds. 
operation is not geared to that type pregame period, Groton plans to In the future, Groton may ex­
Thomas Groton, manager of the 
of service." Groton's aim with the limited limit the menu even further. periment with a self-service
Huddle, "envisions a quick food, 
sandwich selection is "to provide a The Double Huddle burger will beverage system for coffee, tea,
limited food service which will be 
Groton explained that under the more consistent product and faster be the only grill item sold on and soft drinks. He also discussed 
more to the students' advantage." new system, in operation since 
servie." By offering only four or Saturdays during the pregame enlarging the ice cream flavor
Groton said that in the past the Sept. 1, a sandwich board is posted 
five sandwiches each day, the period. All other sandwiches will selection and selling ice cream
Huddle operated as a short order for each day. The menu offers four employees can put the sandwiches be prepare beforehand. items other than cones. 


Groton said he feels that the changes make the operation of the Huddle better. He added ''whether or not they make the operation the best, we will have to wait and see. The more reaction I get from students, the easier it is for the Huddle to change. Then I am better able to see where the Huddle operation is going." 
Groton concluded that the Huddle "can't be all things to all people. I am always looking for more comments because we're here as a service to the students." 
Groton urged students with complaints or suggestions to use the suggestion box located in the Huddle. He said that the food service operation at Notre Dame is willing to try things suggested from customer reaction that "perhaps can be incorporated into 
large-scale renovation plans. 
During SLA involvement *r-THE~* 
Hearst registered at college under alias ~'(,ost__.!_ADJN,(J 
SAN f'HANCISCO (APl -Hichard Gillies, college dean of lists after a few weeks. vovlement in a $15,000 bank holdup 'betYour Kit Together Authorities say Patricia Hearst students, said the FBI questioned Sacramento Sheriff Duane Lowe in the Sacramento suburb of registered under an alias at a him last week about the three said, meanwhile, that "the Carmichael in which a woman college in Sacramento a few weeks students. Gillies said iden­possibility existed" that Miss customer was killed on April 21. before a series of crimes there that tification was not required for Hearst and the Harrises, using Miss Hearst already faces federal may be linked to the Symbionese registration and any registered their aliases, attended the murder bank robbery charges for a San Liberation Army. student could get a photo ID card trail of SLA members Joseph f'rancisco holdup one VP~r earlier. 
One of her attorneys said Sunday from the student association for $1, Remiro and Russell Little but that Investigators said the AR 15 rifle that she is suffering mental Gillies said Mrs. Harris enrolled he doubted they did. may have been the weapon used to anguish from court-ordered in data processing, Harris signed The trial, conducted under heavy kill Ronald E. Winter, 36, a nar­psychiatric testing and should be up for a general education course security, ended with both men cotics user believed involved in moved from jail to a hospital. and Miss Hearst enrolled in convicted June of the murder of illegal weapons sales who was shot 
Miss Hearst registered at business English, secretarial Oakland schools Supt. Marcus 12 times in the chest and stomach. Sacramento City College on Jan. practices and intermediate typing. Foster. Philip A. Thompson of :11, 1975, under the name Sue He said the three apparently Sacramento County Deputy Scaramento was arrested a few Hendricks, the Sacramento Bee never attended any classes and Dist. Att. Geoffrey Burroughs has days later in that shooting and Mtshawaka., IN 465'44 quoted investigators as con­were dropped from enrollment said. Mi~s Heast is under in-faces trial next week, but nor Phone: ~lq/ 2.5q-S213
firming. vest1gat10n for possible in-murder weapon was ever found. William and Emily Harris, her SLA traveling companions, signed ·~···········~· 
r_.·· !IJere IS a ••• 

r--------------------------·
up the same day under the aliases 
Steve Broudy and Suzanne Lan­: difference!!! : phear, the newspaper said. .• ~MifEFOII·. •.
• MCAT I COM THE PAN I
Student ID cards under false 
Ovtr J5ynrs • names bearing the Harrises' • ftI of Hptlltnct : photographs reportedly were 
! OAT • ~"" :
found in the San Francisco house 
IINII~IIIHI :

:. L~ AT i2ANDT" PIZZA PARLOR!
where they were living when 
tJMI VOIUII'IIftOUS holftt

arrested on Sept. 18. A card with 
Miss Hearst's photo was found at i GRE ,,udy;'''"''' :. an undisclosed location 
• ATf'SB 1GETI •• The only 1 
Coursnth1111r •• ft1U tOll\tinily u!Mblt' • 
307 S M1Ch111n St 281 7800 

• OCAT r.,. IKohlln lor : I authentic Italian I
• rnotws or c1111 •
• cnaT ln~ns lnd lor Ult. : rftI or su"''"""''"' •
~EATRE 

: FLEX .,.,,~,, : 
I Deep Dish Pizza. I
• lbhups for
MONDAY ONLY 
: ECFMG : I I
mone41mons 

I I

ALL SEATS $1 
! SAT : 
I I
: IIAT'L MED BDS :
with student 1.0. 
e Molt CIIIMI ltart 8 WNkl • 

I The pizza the WATCH OUR ADS ALL THIS I 
e proor to Eum e e Spnn11 & Fall compact\ e • Some cour1e1 offor•d on • 
1 world awaited! WEEK FOR AN EVENT THAT I 
• Ma1or Campu1e1 •
••••••••••• I YOU WON'T BELIEVE 
I

e TEST DATES e e MCAT 9-75 NMB'S 6-76 e e OAT 1().75 ECFMG 1-76 e 
1 (Save our valuable coupons.) I 
: LSAT 10-75 FLEX 12-75 : e GRE 10-75 OCAT 11-75 e e ATGSB 11-75 CPAT 9-75 e e SAT 11·75 VAT 12-75 e 

I 8-pack 16 oz. 7Up or Pepsi, just $1 1 
: INDIANAPOLIS : 
• 6620 GrHnllllro Drove e e lndoanapolll, Ind. 462:!0 e
i'~J-loLyGlti\IL 
• 13171 842-1267 • 
I1 277-1221 or 277-1222 I 
1'1: 
6:30 

e CHICAGO CENTER e 
..J::!)o 
• 13121 7M-5151 • 
FROM CINEMA 5 
9:30 




' for I 
PLUS WHERE'S POPPA 
STARRING 

EDUCATI..Al CENTE.. e
:i=ti1!~ I Free Delivery !
GEORGE SEGAL 
• JIST "'lPAMftQN • 
...CIAlllf,IH'f >Ill :
RUTH GORDON R 

----......., I anywhere on campus I 
1~111».. • ••,~"<,..., ""-too v $ C•t• 





·------------------------~~ 


critical chaice 



~~The Observer 
·~ ' on independent srudent newspo~ 
Sex War 
Found..d Novt"lllbtor 3, 1966 
Terrv Keeney Editor-in-chief 

Tom Modglin Bu~ine~~ Manager 
Tom Whelan Adverti~ing Manager 
EDITORIAL BOARD AI Rutherford, Managing Editor; Jim Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor; Kc>n Girouard, News Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; Ken Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; Tom O'Neil, Features Editori Chris Smith, Photo Editor 
Editor,.lo: 281-8661 N~ws· 2::,:9l:..,:1.:_7:.,;:15____:B::,:u:.:;";.;."~:.;•.:_•·_::28::.,:1_:·7.:,47:..:,1--------1 
Monday, September 29, 1975 

Rape! 
The problem of assuring the safety of Hearl provide a step in the right direc­women on this campus is serious. tion. Many traffic paths near Lewis Hall, 
Already this year there have been one between the Hayes-Healy, Nieuwland reported rape and one serious assault. Science and O'Shaugnessy Halls and near Last year, the Dean of Students Office the LaFortune Student Center are dimly investigated six incidents of violent lit. These are important areas often assaults against women at Notre Dame traveled by students each night. and St. Mary's, including two reports of Escort services have often failed in the 
rape. past. Women have complained that 
What makes the problem even more Security never answers their call or serious is that incoming women may be forces them to wail for a ·sufficient deceived by the idyllic quality of this number of women to escort. If Security 
campus. While the campus is beautiful cannot provide an adequate escort ser­and pleasant to view at night, it is not free vice, lhen perhaps a student-run service, 
from the crime that plagues the world similar to that sponsored last year by a surrounding the campus. . South Quad hall may be necessary. For Notre Dame, the problem of
The same common sense safety rules protecting women students is new. Thethat women follow outside the campus response to this problem has been far tooshould be followed here also: slow: students have not been made--Do not walk alone at night. 
aware of the magnitude of the safety--Avoid dark spots on campus. 
problem and the Administration has not--If you must walk, walk in groups. 
responded with adequate lighting or--If you are stranded at Notre Dame, escorts.
St. Mary's Security is available to drive While the situation here is not nearly as .
Sl. Mary's students home. 
bad as at other more urban institutions --If you must walk across the Notre the problem of protecting women
Dame campus alone, Notre Dame 
students is serious.
Security offers an escort service. Assuring the safely of women students 
The students both male and female,on this campus is just as much the must adjust to the reality that assaults do
responsbility of the University ad­
happen on this campus and exerciseministration. 
common sense at night. The ad­The problem of lighting has only been ministration must renew its commitment slightly alleviated. New lights recently to coeducation through better physicalinstalled on the North Quad and between protection of its female population.
the Administration Building and Sacred 
P. 0. Box Q 
Instead of the new married than ourselves for the biggest of student stumbling around a society's ills-whether it be violence 
Marrieds 

strange community and wan­or deception. dering all over campus the first Only until we can come to terms year, we could have reached out with our own goals and values can our hands and said "Welcome to we possibly hope to affect those of 

Unite! 

Notre Dame, we're glad you're others. here." Other students, besides Only until you and I can treat myself, feel that would have made each other as Human and not as a big difference in our first coming Man or Woman (with the
Dear Editor: 

to Notre Dame. But for now things automatic vast store of stereotyped seem destined to go on as before. pre-conceptions and rolesLast summer, two other married While thousands of young presently attached to those word­students and myself decided to try students go to class each day, there s l-;:mly then can we each hope toand organize a social service will always be that "older-looking" be able to talk intelligentorganization for undergraduate married student trying to blend in ly with each other about the marri~d students. We felt that by and be just as much a part of the equally important and not entirely
bnngmg married students 
Notre Dame "family" as the unrelated topics of co-ed dorms,together we could improve com­others. The need for belonging is sexuality, abortion, contraceptionmunication between ourselves and not something required by the and even about redefining ourbenefit from one another's ex­young and single alone. roles as women and men.
perience. 

But then maybe Pat Kearns wasThis was not an easy task. It Chuck Kulig joking.
took all summer to organize a basic program, numberous con­Karen E. O'Neilversations with on-campus people, and a host of other problems. 
Night Editor; Tim ("Don't call me
Finally, two weeks before 
Timmy) O'Reiiey

registration, letters were printed, Joking? 
Assistant Night Editor: Martha
postage-paid questionnaire cards 
Fanning

typed up, envelopes prepared and 
Layout Staff: Invisible Man 

sent out to every undergraduate 
Dear Editor: Day Editor: Ken Bradford
married student attending N.D. 
Copy Reader: Jack D'Aurora
this semester. 
Editorials: Pat Hanifan

Of the scores of letters sent out Is Pat Kearns joking in his only 9 people responded. Seven column against coed dorms? If Features: Gregg Bangs, Jen 
Ryder

students were in favor of an there is anything that my organization for married students, 
classmates and I learned from our Sports: Bill Brink Ernie Torriero two were not. frustrating experiences in the late Typists: Marie McCarthy, Karen If all the responses had come 60's as ve~ement war antagonists Chiames, Terri Harlan back unfavorable to a married­and non-vwlence advocates, it is Compugraphic: Robert J. Stein­
metz

that self-analysis is the first step have been half as disappointing as we all need to take before "con­Night Controller: Howard Halle ,t was to receive no answer at all students organization, it would not 
sidering things of greater depth." Picture Screener: Chris Smith ft'lm the other students . And that we need look no further Ad Layout: Tom Whelan 
......... 

kit: baran 
Still hung up on coeducation 
--a 4-year-Qld issue! 
All those WASTED CONVERSATIONS! 
Interminable nit-picking still goes on, 
COWS.....RATIOS.....JOCKS 
and if we don't get out of this trap and understand why this rhetoric 
abounds; if we don't start acting in a positive way rather than 
talking so much, we'll keep defeating our purpose for coming to 
Notre Dame. 

Perhaps Notre Dame isn't so backwards and isolated as we think 
it to be. When focusing specifically on coeducation--involved 
sexual warfare it's important to become informed about what's 
occurring across other campuses. Dr. Herbert Hendin, director of 
psychosocial studies at the Center for Policy Research has recently 
writte~ "Th~ Revolt Agai~st Love," an article in Harper's 
Magazme wh1ch thoroughly discusses coeducation, sexual warfare 
on campus; students fears of emotional attachments, 
acknowled~ing fe~lings, and finding themselves as whole persons. 
Dr. Hendm cruc1ally observes that for both sexes in this society, 
carin~ de.eply for anyone !s becoming synonymous with losing. 
Men, mfhcted w1th a feelmg of impotence, feel caught up in a 
hostility they cannot control While women feel overwhelmed by a 
vulnerability they fear will be fatal, Dr. Hendin writes that many 
women equate emotional relationships with inevitable slaughter. 
That real intimacy with a man is self-destructive is a belief which 
motivates many women to hide themselves in books as they create 
a life for themselves ruling out the possibility of being affected by a 
man. So ~he ~ears of the college c~owd drive the sexesfurtherapart; 
com~umcatlve moments burst mto unwanted emptiness. 
Not1ce that the author observes relationships between the sexes 
nationwide...and notice the dimension of the problem common to 
Notre Dame students. 

Two new ways of approaching the coeducation problem at Notre 
Dame _should be implemented immediately. First, more depen­
dable mteraction between the sexes to initiate a healthier at­
mosphere here is crucial. When men and women come together 
expecting some support or tenderness, they must be free to 
recognize and accept it. 

Secondly, sex-typing must be downplayed . esoecially in the case of guys here who are inclined to be mmantic about the op­posite sex, but whose romantic tendencies themselves to the far­. off unavailable woman. And many of the women here feel that they 
must play a fake ultra-feminine role to attract their man. 
Ultra-feminine role-playing only leads to the same destructive 
end as highly masculine role playing. High femininity, studies 
show, consistently correlates with high anxiety, low self-esteem, 
and low self-acceptance. High masculinity in males is often ac­
companied by high anxiety, high neuroticism, and low self­
·acceptance. Further, research indicates that greater intellectual 
development has quite consistently correlated with cross-sex­
typing. 

There's absolutely nothing wrong for a male to project warmth, 
playfulness and concern, important human traits that should not be 
considered exclusively feminine. It is equally necessary for a 
women to be independent, assertive and self-reliant--not ob­
noxiously of course but to the extent that enables her to cope better 
with daily challenges. 

To win the Notre Dame sex-game, more androgyny must be 
accepted and popularized. Androgyny does not mean bisexuality 
in this context: rather it is a developing of the best ot assets 
traditionally considered masculine within the female, and 
developing the best of the feminine qualities in the male. An­
drogyny is a ste~ towards becoming more whole, allowing the 
person to be both mdependent and tender, assertive and yielding, 
feminine and masculine. If it would define a new and more human 
standard of psychological health between the men and women of 
Notre Dame, a greater capacity to get to know others for who they 
are would be developed, and no more words would be wasted about 
coeducation! 

DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
I)Jttl, TH& PITCH 15 OFF, 
I 
OKAY? JIM,BUT I 7HINKICAN SAVE IT IN 7HE MIX. IN 
FACT, IF I PUTSOM6 £0. ON IT, /AI~ M16HT £VEN HAV£ A """''-~--.. 


~~~~ ---~----------------~ 



1 ~M~o~n~d~a_y,_S~e_p~te~m~b_e_r_2_9,_19_7s_____::fh~e~o:..:-b 5 e rver 5 
the quest for social and christian justice 
j


fr. francis quinliuan j 
I I 

Editor's Note: This article by Francis be, someday, the human situation. How to the world around them and seek an "in­wounded and welcome the unwanted. She I (!uinlivan, ('.S.C., will begin a series of get from here to there is the question. house" type of Christian experience. True would critique what happened in the arena 
I

£t•atun•s articles !lealing with con­If the Church is more than utopian and theology is a Gospel-reflection on lived in the light of the Gospel, but not venture 
I

tt•mtJorary tht'ological issues and spiritual religion an opiate, then the transformation experience. It goes beyond the asking of directly in. 
I

mattt'rs which directly apply to the Notre of the world in bits and pieces and in unclear rhetorical questions for wich those who Now the call has come to begin to step 
I

Damt• t·ommunity. The articles will ways is part of the legacy of Jesus. The know the answers are comforted. inside while never abandoning the living 
I

t•outinut• for tht' rt'mainder of tht' week on salvation of human-kind is not ac­The injustice of our day is often in­work of healing. This is new ground and it is 
I

this IHIJ.(t'. Dist·ussioqs will include the complished without the remaking of the stitutionalized, embodied in systems which frightening, but it is the call of the Gsopel 
I

phtl't' of women and married men in the world. Can we heal the brokeness in man perpetuate it-systems and institution wh­today. 
I

ministry of tht• church, crime as a con­without healing th brokeness in mankind'? ich control so much of our e\\eryday lives. There is ministry here which must test its 
I

ll•lllllorar·y issue, thl' I'Volution of the To arrive at detente with the unjust world is This is the "societal sin",sin without a sin­validity. Can the word of God be preached 
I

( 'hrist imagt• through history and the st­tantamount to renouncing the GospeL The ner, evil structures for which no one is and lived in this context? Can conversion mh·nt as individual at Notre Uame. Other and salvation be brought to structures as I artidt•s tlt•aling with similar issues may bl.' well'? Are there pre\'entive as well as I 
suhm ittt•d for JHiblication this week. We n ••• imagine an arena where political, social and rem('dial works of mercy-must people be I ask Jlo!t•ntial t·ontributors to contact the hungry, thirsty, naked, sick, homeless and I Observer Ft•atun· Editor soml.'time this in prison to begin with? I 1'\l'ninl-( 01" (OIIIOITUW. economic decisions are made ... the church for The theology of justice and a ministry I Fr·. Quinlivan is tht• l>irt•ctor of the aim('d at institutional change are radical in I .lustit•t• and l't•at•t• ('ommission. the truest sense of going to the roots-to the I
so long stood louingly on the sidelines. .. (and) 
depths of the Gospel's demands and laking 
I 

what is said there at face-value. 
i

The experience must be lived deeply-to
knew that in those battles countless people would I 
WP live in an unjust world. That is, an confront the power of darkness <we must I impt>rfcct world, a sinful world, a broken not underestimate the roe l with the 
I

world. The quest for justice in such a world powerlessness of the Gospel. Then. in
be injured and wounded." I I
is difficult. not only because of the enormity reflection on this experience, will the of injustice and the way it has become inst­theology of justice be written. 
I

itutionali7.ed and part of the culture itself, attempt to live now as if the Kingdom has responsible. We can deal with personal sin. Thomas Merton has written of the 
I

hut also because what "justice" means in come is the Christian life. We know of salvation, conversion, Christian life today in the quest for justice: tlw real <or even in the abstract> is seldom Frederick Perella has written: "A basic forgiveness. But before the enormity and "In perfect obedience to the Gospel, he clear. question must be asked by anyone who complexity of societal sin we can stand, it t•ffaces himself and his own interests and 
l 
There have been many utopian visions of would call herself or himself a Christian: seems, only powerless. even risks his life in order to testify not I society. but the Kingdom of the Christian Do self-sufficiency, competiton, material If we were to imagine an arena where simply to 'the truth' in a sweeping, idealistic I vision is somehow meant to be more pract­success and pleasure, efficiency and political, social and economic decisions are and purely platonic sense, but to the truth ical, more "down-to~arth" and more im­usefulness and individualism, proceed from made and where power, wealth, prestige that is incarnate in a concrete human 
l 
mediate. The realm of belief in our lives is the teachings of Jesus Christ and His and might play such great roles, the Church situation, involving living persons whose I clearly not seen as something for the next Church? Does disrespect for or indifference has for so long stood lovingly on the rights are denied or whose lives are world only, but something which is to to human life in any form proceed from His sidelines. To enter the arena was to be threatened." renew. remake the here-and-now also. The Cross'?" dirtied. but the Church knew that in those This, then, is the quest-a longing, Christian Kingdom is a kingdom of justice, The Christian life is impossible in isolat­battles countless people would be injured, searching, moving out-for justice. It is 
I 
peace and love. It is vastly different from ion and only a caricature when lived in wounded, left out, forgotten, pushed aside. part of what the Church is and is meant to 
l 

the present human situation, but is meant to groups which disassociate themselves from So, lovingly she stood on the edgt! to heal the be. If not from us, from whom will it come'? 

the observer Monday, September 29, 1975 
r 
r ~ Campus briefs • • •
~ 

• · • d

I I Caponlgrl name 
I I I F0 1ger Fe11ow 
~ 
I Dr. A. Robert Caponigri,i professor of philosophy at Notre I Dame since 1946, has been ap­I pointed Fellow of the Folger I Shakespeare Library in I Washington, D.C., for the year 1976. He will spend a period of
I 
residence at the library, con­
I 
sidered to be one of the most dist­
I 
inguished institutions of ~ts kind in
I 
the world.
I I Caponigri, chairman of the I Committee on the Humanities at 
Notre Dame, will conduct research 
I 
on the principles of Shakespearean
I 
criticism in the tradition of Italian
I 
Romanticism from Ugo Foscolo to
I 
the critical work of Benedett
I 
Croce.
I I The Folger Library houses one of I the world's most select collections I of original and reprint editions of I Shakespeare works and one of the I most significant collections of studies of British civilization from 
I 
1500 to 1700. It also houses an
t 
extensive collection of Strozzie manuscripts and some 50,000 manuscripts relating to the life and 
t times of Shakespeare. 
•J bJ


GrantS aVal a e 
An informal description of the project, including a summary of the proposed project, the current educational status of the applicant, the intended target group and the expected duration of the project must be prepared by Oct. 15, with a formal desc~iption due Nov. 15. 
Murphy urged students to apply, saying, "Few students realize the amount of money available to them for studies such as these. Also, it looks good on your record when applying to grad schools." 
Further information is available from Murphy at 7213. 

Business college requested assistance from the 
SBA. The teams may spend up to one academic year studying all phases of operation before com-SpOnSOrSprogram pleting a full audit of their fin-
The program will include topicssuch as problem solving and .&Or ND t d t decision making and management
l' s u en s functions. 
The College of Business Ad­ministration will sponsor a 24th annual Supervisory Development Program beginning Nov. 4 and continuing each Tuesday from 7 to 9 p.m. for 15 sessions. Dr. Salvat­
ore J. Bella, Management, is  _professor director of  of the  
program.  
The program's  purpose  is  to  

develop skills in business, indus­trial and institutional supervision. The weekly sessions in the Center for Continuing Education will be conducted by Notre Dame faculty assigned by Brother Leo V. Ryan, 
dean of the college. 

Notre Dame students may be eligible for humanities grants of up to $10,000, according to Tony Murphy, campus coordinatotor of Youthgrants for the office of Arts and Letters faculty research and sponsored programs. 
The grants, sponsored by the National Endowment for the Humanities, are intended to provide students with an op­portunity to explore their interests in the humanities. 
Projects funded by these grants must concern the designing or conducting of an educational program, the independent study or research of a specific problem or activities aimed at disseminating humanistic knowledge and materials or applying this knowledge to the understanding of contemoorary issues. 
A fee of $175 for the program includes tuition costs, notebooks, instructional material, refresh­ments served during the sessions, and the graduation banquet at­tended by exectutives of par­ticipating companies. Additional information may be obtained by contacting Dr. Bella at the University. 
Business school receives grant 

The Small Business Ad­ministration <SBA) has awarded a $5,000 grant to the College of Business Administration at Notre Dame for a continuation of the program of assistance to firms 
fAT 
II 





WA~lii/Y S 
HAPPY HOUR DAILY 4 -7 
Free cheese and crackers 
Monday  -Football Night  
GIANT 7' SCREEN  
Tuesday  -Free Movies 9:00  

Wednesday -Ladies' Night (complete disco format) SATURDAY FOOTBALL SPECIAL 
open at 9:00 a.m. 
Large Sausage Pizza $2.88 carry out 277-0570 
2046 South Bend Ave. 
sponsored by the agency. The award, announced by Francis A. Yeandel, assist. dean, recognizes "innovative teaching techniques and pragmatic approaches." 
Yeandel described the suc­cessful program as management consultation by teams of Notre Dame seniors with owners of firms experiencing difficulties in some area of business operation. The theorietical know-how of students is combined with the practical knowledge of the business operator. 
Under the guidance of faculty members, the student teams are assigned to a firm that has 
dings. In some cases, Yeandel says, a recommendation may include new marketing techniques or a complete revision of the product manufactured. 
The Notre Dame college has been a partner in several SBA programs since the agency was formed. 
currently a registered represen­tative of The Illinois Company, Inc.. Chicago, and is a former
educator m economics, ac­
countancy and commercial law. 
Registration is open to anyone interested in securities and invest­ments. Lee Pacholke of the Center 
for Continuing Education is ser­ving as coordinator for the con­
ference. 
Students planning to begin graduate studies in business may take the Graduate Management Admission Test at Notre Dame on Mov. 1, Jan. 31, March 27 and July 
10. Formerlv called Admission Test 

for Graduate Study in Business, the test measures an applicant's promise to succeed in graduate 
study. The test is required for admittance by many of the 390 graduate schools of business in the nation. 
A registration fee of $12.50 in­eludes a score report sent to the 
candidate, his undergraduate counseling-placement office, and to as many as three graduate sch.ools designated. on t~e regist­ration form. Reg1str~t10n forms and t~st fees not _received before 
deadlme are subJect to a $4 late fee. 
• ALL YOU CAN EAT DINNER)


ser1es .__________ -­
Securities 

starts on Oct 6 
A special four-session course, Securities and Investments, will be offered by Franklyn R. and Alice B. Bonnet, financial advisors of LaPorte,lnd.,beginning Oct. 6 in Notre Dame's Center for Con­tinuing Education. The sessions will be held Mondays from 7 to 9:30 p.m. 
Classroom topics will include subjects such as Dow and other Market Theories and Formula To Determine the Intrinsic Value of a Security. 
Bonnet, an investment advisor registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, has served in executive positions with General Motors, Colt Industries, General Time and Gerkel, Inc. His wife is 
-----------------~
I PEACH TREE II •DINING ROOM • I I RANDALL' I I I UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT I I TUESDAy NIGHT SPECIAL I I SPAGHETTI AND MEATBALLS I 
&SALAD

I WITH THIS COUPON $.05 'I FOR FIRST BEE~::J
I $1 . 9 5 
:••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••


tMeeting TONIGHTi 
* 
* ~ 
~ 
*~ 
: 
~ 
: 
*
: 
: 

*  
for members of  ~  
C.A.U.S.E.  * :  
and anyone interested in  *~  
doing volunteer work with the aged.  :  
8:00p.m.La Fortune Ballroom  ~ :  
If unable to attend, please call  *~  

Maureen-1311 or Joe-234-8952 : 
············~························ 
II II 


source


for Danskin Leotards and Tights 
Danskins are for everywhere and everyone. For partying and playing, exercising and 
dancing, and for just plain wearing around. 
Made of 100% easy care nylon. Available in a rainbow of colors and a multitude of styles at these Parklane Stores. 
NEUMODE HOSIERY 2454 MIRACLE LANE 
SCOTTSDALE MALL 

Monday, September 29, 1975 the observer 
7 

Spanish executions foment crisis 
MADRID, Spam (AP) Paramilitary police opened fire on protesters in he northern Basque town of Algorta on Sun­day as the executions of five anti-government terrorists threw Spain into crisis. 
Six persons were reported wounded in the Basque town, including an elderly woman shot in the leg. 
The Spanish government be­gan recalling ambassadors from a Europe outraged by the executions. while most West European countries pulled their ambassadors out of Madrid. 
Opposition politicians warned that the nation faces two choices as long as Gen. Fran­cisco Franco, 82, holds on to the power he won 36 years ago in the Civil War -runaway violence or a military coup. 
From Scandanavia to Greece, and even in Spain itself, tens of thousands of Europeans staged demonstrations and in some cases resorted to violence to vent their opposition to Franco's ri~id rule. 


Sadatspeaks out 
CAIHO <APl -President An­war Sadat said Sunday the United States assured Egypt that Israel will not attack Syr­ia, that there will be another disengagement agreement on the Golan Heights and that the Palestinians will take part in efforts to reach an over-all set­tlement. 
"If there are any secret pro­visions <of the new Sinai settle­ment with Israel) they are these," Sadat said in a nation­ally televised speech to Egypt's political leadership. The speech marked the fifth anniversary of 
the  former  President  Gamal  
Ahdel Nasser's death.  
In  his  third  defense  of  the  

pact since it was signed Sept. 1, 
Sadat again attacked his Arab critics and bitterly assailed the Soviet Union as an unreliable ally. 
He also accused Jordan's 

* 
: . By the 
: *LITER *PITCHER* V2 LITER 
• 
Come see us for 

• 
for Good Food and a Good Time 


THE BACK DOOR 
next to Capri Liquor Store) 
The influential Roman Catho­lie newspaper Ya, in one of its strongest and most direct edito­rials in many years, demanded "profound and radical transfor­mations in the present political system ... at all levels." It said delay would be "suicidal." 
ln Madrid, 1,500 young dem­onstrators attempted to turn a Sunday mass in San Isidro Cathedral into a requiem for the five young men shot by fir­ing squads at dawn Saturday for killing policemen. They shouted "freedom" and "no to executions" as riot police raced to disperse them. Several per­
sons  were  detained, but  there  
was  no  violence.  
Two  of  the  executed  men  

were members of the Basque separatist movement, which seeks autonomy for the three Basque provinces of northern Spain. The other three were members of an urban guerrilla ieves Friday night to six others condemned to die, including two women and a Basque with a brain injury. 
Two of the five executed men were buried Sunday in heavily guarded funerals attended by several hundred persons, one in Barcelona and the other. in Az­peitia in the north. 
The European opposition to the executions led to injuries for 60 Swiss police guards when a demonstration at the Spanish consulate in Geneva degene­rated into a riot late Saturday, and there were also injuries in Paris. Protesters sacked and burned the Spanish Embassy in Portugal, a fire did heavy dam­age to the embassy in The Hague, Holland, and a bomb broke windows at the Spanish ambassador's residence in Tur­key. 
The European Common Mar­ket condemned the executions described the Franco regime in such terms as "barbarous" and "murderous." Swedish Prime 
Minister  Olof  Palme  called  the  
Spanish leadership murderers."  "satanic  
The  Federation  of  Prostitutes  

in Lyon, France, sent a tele­gram to Pope Paul urging Franco's excommunication. 
Spain rdered its envoys home from The Netherlands, Norway, West Germany, Portugal and the Vatican. For their part, at least 11 governments recalled their ambassadors from Ma­drid, including Sweden, Bel­gium, Denmark, Britain, Hoi­land, East and West Germany, Portugal and France. Most said it was just for consultations. 
The Franco government also decided not to send official rep­resentation to Sunday's Vatican ceremony canonizing Spanish­born Juan Macias as a saint. Pope Paul VI had made three 

even buffooning about , treason" to the Arab cause coming from 
TUDENT SEASON
Syria's ruling Baath party and 
UBSCRIPTION
the Palestinians . 
EEPSTAKES All NO and SMC students 
purchasing season sub­

!*************IJ~~l{*(***********l scriptions will be eligible 

Tebelak and Schwartz's 


GODSPELL 
April 23, 24,29,30, May 1 at 8 PM Sle an Center 

for a drawing to be held Oct. 10, 1975 before
* 
: 

opening of first show. 
: 

: Arthur Miller's 

: THE CRUCIBLE
: Feb. 27, 28, Mar. 4, 5, 6 at 8:00 O'Laughlin Auditorium
* 
: 

NO 
SMC 


THEATRE 
1975-1976 Our 10th Joint Season 
lnllocate lsi Fri., lSI Sat., Thurs., 2d Sat. 2d Fri. date choice and mail check for amount due with stamped­addressed envelope for return of tickets to: N D­SMC Theater, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
WANTED 
Need 3 tickets for Michigan State game. Call Mike after 6p.m. 288-0088 
Need 2 USC tickets; call Dave 1741 
Need two tlx to Mich. State Will pay. Call 291-3075 before noon or after 6p.m. 
Wanted: GA tlx tor Southern Cal Call 6896 
Desperately need 2 Chicago tlx in lower arena. Call Bob 272-1400 
Wanted .. Rod Stewart tlx preferably 1st few rows; Will pay $$ Call 2n­1400 
Desperately need 2 GA Mich. State & 1 Southern Cal ticket. Pat 1583. 
Have 4 USC tlx. Want to trade for 4 MSU tlx. Please call 5280. 
DESPERATELY NEED TWO SOUTHERN CAL TIX. CALL BOB 3665. 
Need 2 tix tor MSU game. Call 272­0495 
Will trade 1 GA MSU ticket tor 1 GA USC ticket. Call after 6:00P.M. 289-6535. 
Need ride to Chicago Thursday October 2; Call Betsy 1363. 
Wanted 2 GA tickets for Georgia Tech Will PAY SS Help I Call Mary 5135. 
Help! Need tlx to USC or any home game. Call Nano 4424. 
Wanted: 2 or 4 MSU G.A. tlx. Call Drew 3272 
Need riders to Phlla. Oct. 2. 5. Both ways; Share expenses; Call Dave 8361. 
Needed: 2 GA USC tickets;Call Mike 6939. 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
Students: n while you learn; part-lime c· .1tact work -afford extra incor"le. For appointment 684-4396. 
2 Michigan State tlx -Call 1630. 
Wanted: 1 Mich. State ticket and 3 Southern Cal tickets; Call Dan 1219. 
Need 2 Mich. State tickets tor a job next year. Please call Mike 1438. 
3 Students looking for 4th roommate at Campus View--272-2701. 
Need 2 or 4 GA Mich. ST. fix together . Chip, 1026. 
Others speak of sex and death. All I need are 2 Southern Cal tickets. I'm Mary at 6680. 
Will pay C-Note for 4 GA fix to MSU 272-6290. 
Need 1 ticket tor USC & Navy; Call Jeff 1075. 
2 GA tix for MSU Cash or trade student tix for other games. 289-4350. 
Need 2 Navy GA tlx. Will pay. Call Jim 272-6792. 
Desperately need G.A. tix to Mich. St. As many as 6. Call Steve at 8624. Will pay $$ 
Need four Chicago tickets. Call 3537 Ask for Matt. 
Need 4 MSU and USC tickets . Call 3648. 
Need 4 USC and 5 Navy tickets. Will pay well. Please call 5168. 
Good money paid for any homet­lckets. Call John 1816. 
Wanted three MSU tickets. Please call Mark. 256-1206. 
Desperately need 3 GA or student tickets for Michigan State. Call Mary Kay 6804. 
Need 3 tickets for MSU game. Call Mike after 6p.m. 288-0088 Need 4 GA tix for Georgia Tech game. Call 5740. 

Need 2 or 3 GA tickets to MSU. Call Mark 1475. 
Need 4 tickets tto USC game. Call vickie 3567. 
Desperately need 2 G.A. tickets tor 
M.S.U. Will payGOOD Price. Call Ron at 3543. 
Need two So. Cal. tlx. Call Murph 287-0742. 
Needed: 4 tickets to Pittsburgh game. Call 4300. 
Need 3 M.S.U. G.A. Call 8772. 
Need 2 GA MSU tickets. Call Alice 5494. 
Part-time help wanted: evenings and weekends. Hourly wages. Apply in person at Julio's 913112 Lincolnway West. 
FOR SALE 

Stereo, Sony HP610 A 20 watts RMS DUAL Turntable, 12 in. 2W spe-akers $350. Paul 8131. 
1971 Triumph TR6. Steel belted Radial tires. Call 272-2844 alter 5 p.m. 
1. 
Sturdy bar 54 in. long with 3 bar stools . standard height $60.00 

2. 
2 folding beds with 6 in. mat­tresses $10.00 each 

3. 
Wooden frame for couch · needs 


foam cushions $5.00 each. Call 288-5793 
STEREO EQUIPMENT major brands at •substantial savings; all taclory sealed under manufac­turer's warranty. Elliot Enterprises 233-3769 (after 3:30 p.m.) 
Macrame Jewelry bracelets and necklaces, plant .hangers. Also crocheted scarves. Call Barb 233­3876. 
For Sale: 1 senior season ticket. Call 3149. 
For sale: Sony 5" TV $100. HP-45 calculator, does standard deviation, great for psych, statistics, physics courses, $225 or offer. Write 203 Fisher or phone 1945. 
Compact stereo speakers, head­phones. $50, call 7875. 
ACS lab aprons on sale in 126 Nieuwland and freshman labs. only $3. 
FOR RENT 
Students or faculty, 5 rms, fur­nished, private utilities furnished. Security_deposit, near campus. 1002 Campeau St. Call 234-7952. 
NOTICES 
Sunflower music Shop. Vintage st­ringed instruments. Expert repair. 
Books, records and accessories. 632 Portage Ave. 
Typing-35 cents per pg. Call Dan, 272-5549. 
Need 2 USC tickets. Call Dave 1741. 
The Amateur Radio Club will meet Tuesday night at 7 p.m. behind Holy Cross Hall. Attendance Is very important. For infor, call ,Jeff ·3276. 
Bio-Ciub T-Shirts arriving within the week. Orders now being taken 107 Galvin, Mon.-Thurs: 2:00-4:30 until Oct. 2 Only $2.80. 
Quick Loans: Morrissey Loan Fund, up to $150. 30 days 1 per cent Int­erest. Basement of LaFortune. M-F 11:15-12:15. 
Typing: Experienced In Senior Essays, dissertations, etc. Reasonable, accurate, 232-5715. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho, 232-0746. 
Free-darling kittens to a good home. 6 wks old. Call 233-8579 after 5 p.m. 
Sophomore Literary Festival meeting Monday 9 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom. 
Best prices in town II Jennifer's, 119 
W. Colfax. 11:00-5:30 Mon.-Sat. 
Gay Guide to Notre Dame-South Bend," $1.00 at Pandora's or write GSND, Box 206, Notre Dame. 
LOST & FOUND 
A Iighter with map of Germany near library. Call Mark 289-8924. 
Gold Bulova-Caravelle watch with football inscribed on the face, in the South Dining Hall. If found call John 1169. 
PERSONALS 
SGH can't walt to meet you! Billy P. 
Mindle: BB tix, banks, Roberstons, lines, breakfast, where's your nose, how's your Mother? Love, 
Kate 
Ciao belllslme de camera 463 domani sera! inslence In amoret t­utti e tre I Non posso aspettareII 
Six concert package, South Bend Symphony, student prices $10, sa, and$6. Available at Student Union Ticket Office, Monday thru Friday. 

OBSERVER 

Classifieds Get Results! 

-
------~~---­
~8~_ __:t.:..:h:..:e=---=o~b:::....:=s~e::...:r:._v.:......=e....:.r____M-'-o::..:.n:..:::d=-ay'-'-, September 29, 1975 
Offense powers Irish pas!....~~.!~y 
home opener, reminiscent of last Sophomore quarterback Joe Montana gets ready to pass in Saturday's 31-7 victory over Nor-Greenville, N.C. rushed for 70 year against Purdue. thwestern. (photo by Chris Smith). yards Saturday (168 for the 
On Notre Dame's next
• score, ~e picked UI;> a littl~ help began the second half in style too. game. The Irish led 31-7 and the season) and remained the Irish's
possession, however, Slager, who from hiS defense m securmg a Using the running power of second unit took over from there. leading pass receiver by hauling inhad already been hit hard once, second touchdown. With the Browner and Hunter and an 11 Defensively, the Irish were 4 aeriels for 45 yards.
took a hard collar around the neck Wildcats punting on fourth and 7 yard pass to Mark McLane he led again superb, and had their own The big question, of course, isfrllm NU safety Rob Dean, and from midfield, Willie Fry barrelled the offense to the Northwestern 27 outstanding newcomer to com-quarterback, and a cautiousBroadway Joe's chance had come. 
in to block Randy Dean's kick, and where Dave Reeve converted on ~ plement the offense. Freshman Devine declined to commit himself Montana replaced Slager at the Tom Lo~ienski recovered for ND 44 yard field goal attempt. middle guard Bob Golic, filling in on whether it would be Slager or
helm and took advantage of the 
at the Wildcat 26. Then early in the fourth quarter for the injured Tom Eastman, was Montana.
opportunity. He moved the offense Monta~B: wrote the rest of the Heavens went to work again, in the thick of things all day As for Montana, it looks as if hefor a touchdown on his first series, story, fmng a bullet. to Ken carrying for gains of 7, 12, 2, 15, notching 3 solo tackles and 7 has the vote of the fans <witnesswith Al Hunter scoring from the Mac~fee at the 1~ yard lme before and 2 before Dan Knott put the assists. Fry was also super the 'lets go Joe' chant when hefour to make it 7-7 with 1:18 left in handmg off to Jim Browner who h W'ld d I' sacking W1'ldcat quarterback' entered the game) and his
the first quarter. Irish on t e I cat one yar me. statistics, 6 of 11 in the air for 80 
rambled 10 ,yards for. the scor~. on fourth and one, Terry Eurick Randy Dean behind the line three yards, 28 yards on the ground and "Rick had been zinged a little 
Dave Reeve s extra pomt made It blasted over but ND was penalized times and practically taking the
earlier in the game," said Devine, 14-7 with 11:23 left in the half. for illegal 'motion and-dropped handoff from Dean several other one TD, should give him con-explaining his decision to put After Northwestern was forced back to the six. Montana then times as he stopped Northwestern fidence.
Montana in the ballgame. "He got 
to punt by the tenacious Irish r~!led around the right end for the runners for a loss. "I would . probably ~e m~rehit again, and Rick's not the kind of defense, Montana went to work touchdown with 12·55 left in the "I personally was a little made ne~vous sta~tmg: ga~e, ~et sa.It
kid to stay in just for the sake of staying in. He knew he was hurt so 

~!~i~7~~Jh;o~ f:~c:0:d0~a~~~ Ernie To~riero~===============================================:================================:=========:=========:===============~===:=:~======:=~=~====~==~:====~~========~==;===;==:
he came out. It was the same thing 
end around reverse to Ted
that happened to 25 or 30 other Burgmeier. The sophomore splitguys out there." 
end seemed trapped as he racedMontana meanwhile, was 


Extra Points
laterally across the field, but he unaware that his time had come. 
picked up a good block from Ed"I wasn't even thinking about Bauer and used his tremendous
it," said the 6-2, 184 lb. native of speed to soar through the Wildcat ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.A switch in time
Monongahela, Pa. "I was kneeling before was finally
down about ten yards away from defense he Rick Slager made a crucial mistake on Saturday. anticipation. They were not booing Slager. Rather 
brought down on the Northwestern 
the coaches. I saw Slags <Slager) After sweeping around left end for four yards, weak theywere cheering Montana. 
13, a 50 yard gain. Montana threw
coming off and I thought there was side safety Pete Shaw speared into Slager, knocking Montana responded in prolific fashion. The first
incomplete, then lost a yard on a 
a time out. Then all of a sudden I the 5-10, 188 pound quarterback into blissful oblivion. three times that Joe-Joe Gun directed the offense, the 
keeper before hitting Mark 
was going into the game." Rick needed time to recover and he conveyed that end result was a touchdown. In fact, the Irish would 
McLane with a perfect strike for a 
thought to the fuzzy sidelines. have scored on the fourth Montana drive if time hadMontana's performance put 14 yard TD pass. Reeve's kick 
Devine and his coaching staff back made it 21-7. Enter sophomore quarterback Joe Montan~. the not run out in the half with Notre Dame stranded two in the same position they were in at The Irish nearly had another man with a name that is usually reserved for movie yards away from paydirt. the start of the season, that of first half score when Jerome stars. Montana came in so that Slager could have a "This was our most consistent offensive game of having to decide between he and Heavens scampered 30 yards to the chance to stop the bells from ringing in his ears. But the year," Devine was to later admit. The record 
Slager for the starting quarterback Wildcat 39 yard line with 11 the bells never stopped ringing. Indeed they were shows that the Irish amassed 466 yards, with 368 of those yards coming on the ground.
position. When asked who would seconds left. Montana unloaded a tolling for Rick Slager. 
start against Michigan State next bomb that was incomplete in the This is not a knock Rick Slager column. For there ''He is a real crowd pleaser,'' Pont said of Montana. week, Devine replied, "I don't end zone, then hit AI Hunter with a is nothing about Slager to knock. He did a fine job in "He reminds me a lot of Tom Clements." know yet." beautiful 37 yard pass to the 2 as the second half at Boston College and followed it up The offense does appear to run smoother under the 
Once Montana got in' the game, time ran out in the half. with an even better performance last week versus guidance of Montana. He has a rifle for an arm and it he earned the right to stay there. "I was real nervous in the first Purdue. He is an excellent student and one of the was once rated "The best arm to come out of western 
After leading the Irish to their first half," Montana admitted. But he nicest guys that you would ever want to meet. Pennsylvania since Stan Musial." The strength of his Indeed there is nothing wrong with having Slager at arm allows him to drop back farther than Slager and 
quarterback. But there is no escaping the fact that still complete the passes to the flats with relative Montana did in one game what Slager has failed to do ease. Montana also has more time to survey the in the previous two; he moved the offense at a pace of situation and pick out an open target. His 14 yard 
rapid consistency. scoring strike to Mark McLane was evidence of that. 
"We were not surprised to see Montana at quar­Montana patiently waited and then drilled the ball terback," said Northwestern coach John Pont. between two defenders. "Coach Devine had hinted about Montana in th in­Montana has quick feet. He back-peddles real 
terviews with ttie press in Chicago." well. Joe is not known for his speed. Yet he showed 
Well if Pont expected to see Montana, then someone some nifty running on Saturday, particularly in his should have mentioned the fact to Dan Devine. For six yard scoring run. according to Devine, he had no plans of using the The doubts that have surrounded Montana have 
sophomore from Monongahela, Pennsylvania that been those concerning his poise and play-calling Joe early in the game. showed that he had -an awful lot of poise. He came 
"Yes, Slager was hurt," countered Devine. "He into the game in a tough situation. Then in the second was slightly hurt. At that point it was the injury that quarter, Montana was harassed out of the pocket. caused his coming out." With a Northwestern player clinging at his jersey, 
After Montana entered the game, Devine's hand Montana spotted AI Hunter alone in the opposite flat. was forced. With the Irish behind 7-0, Montana faced He fluttered the ball to Hunter just as he was a second and six situation on the Wildcats 45 yard being banged into the turf. line. Eleven plays later the score was knotted. The It is true that Slager would have never found 
key play in the drive was a third down situation in himself in that situation because he doesn't drop back 
which Montana bootlegged nine yards for a crucial that far. But Montana demonstrated a lot of poise in first down. For the 59,075 plus in Notre Dame turning a 10 yard loss into a two yard gain. Stadium there was no doubt who was their choice was Slager called his own plays. Merv Johnson, the for quarterback. But Dan Devine was not sure. offensive coordinator of the Irish, sends in the plays 
"It was one of those decisions that you make at the for Montana. The system worked to perfection Sat­time and as the game goes along," Devine explained urday. Ara used to call the plays for his quart­
of his choice to keep Montana in the game. "Over the erbacks. The system is a viable one and it is used by years I have learned to do what I think is right at the many colleges. time because 95 per cent of the time you are. These Before the season began, Devine was asked to assess 
-
are just the decisions that you have to make during his quarterback situation. "Montana looks real well the course of a game." in scrimmages," Devine explained. "Sometimes he When Montana entered1 the game, the crowd roared doesn't look all thl!t good in practice. But I guess that with resounding approval. It was quite a receotion is the way a coach likes it." 
for a man who had seen limited action against Purdue So Devine stuck with Slager when the season and whose only pass this season had been in­opened. Slager was the safe choice. Devine tercepted. liked the fact that Slager could call his own plays and 
The reaction of the crowd was prompted by one of he is a smooth runner who always seems to spring two factors. Either they were wholly dissatisfied with away from his attackers. the way Slager was running the offense or the build Now all that has changed.lt may even be the focal up about Montana in the press had excited the crowds point of the 1975 Notre Dame football season. 












