

OD The Inside 
SMC Student Assembly ... page 3 
S.B. Hotline 
... page 6 


serving the notre dame -sf. mary's community
Vol. lx, No. 87 Monday, February 24, 1975 
Rectors discuss Grace Hall experiment 
Eight are seeking position of SBP 
other in the final election to be held by Barbara Boylan on March 5th. Staff Reporter Campaign procedures for the candidates include varied do's and 
Eight candidate tickets are don't's set out by the election officially in the running for the l'ommitee. A $50.00 limit on student body presidential and vice­campaign expenses is set for all presidential elections which will SBP-SBVP tickets. take place on March 3, one week Poster size is limited and their from today. A special body display is allowed only within comprised of one co-{lrdinator dormitories and public buildings. from each of the 21 halls and a four No campaign posters are allowed person executive committee has on outside walls, trees or any other been created to serve as the exterior areas according to I<:lection Committee to handle university rules. balloting. Also no streakers are to be used 
Herb Thiele, chairman of the as promoters or promotions. election committee and Student However skywriting and airplane Body President Pat McLaughlin banners as well as balloons are met briefly with the eight teams permissable, according to the last night. guidelines. 
Running for student body "There will be no endorsements president and vice-president are: by the HPC as a body, or by the Patrick Boyle and Tom Black; Ed Student Government, Student Byrne and Tom Fitzgerald; An­llnion. or the Board of Com­drew Bury and Alfred Sondej; missioners. nor from any incoming Jack Culligan and Bill Macauley; freshman," the elections rules .Joe Corpora and Jim Spurling; state. For the protection of the Mike Gassman and Frank student. no endorsements from McGuire; Brian Hegarty and the Provost are allowed. Can­David Caldwell; Dennis Smith and didates will accept media en­Bruce Rand. dorsements at their own risk. 
The campaign period for the Herb Thiele commented that the primary elections begins Wed­t·andidates are well-informed nesday. February 26th, at noon and about the election procedures and l'Xtends until Monday, March 3rd everything is ready for the at I a.m. beginning of the campaigning. He 
A runoff will be held if no ticket also emphasized that if anyone has gets 50 per cent plus one of all votes any comments or questions, cast in the primary. In this case someone will be available in the the two top candidates from the Student Government Office primary will run against each l'veryday at 12:30 p.m. 

Opinions varied 
St. Mary's Board of Regents met this weekend, discussing a number of key issues. Details of the meeting will be released today, following the convocation, and will appear in tomorrow's Observer. A series of in-depth articles on the outcome of the Regents' meeting will appear in the Observer throughout the week. (Staff photo by Andy Waterhouse) 

Ne'W St. Mary's President to be announced early today 
by Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor 
Sr. Kathleen Anne Nelligan, C.S.C., Chairman of the Corporate Board of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, is expcted to announce the next president of St. Mary's College at an all-school convocation today at 12:15 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
The announcement will come following almost a year-long search for a president. 
The new president is among five presidential candidates interviewed and recommneced by the Board of Regents last semester. Among the possibilities are: Dr. Paul J. Reiss, vice president for academic affairs at Fordham University; Dr. Francis J. Mertz, executive vice president of St. Peter's College, New Jersey; Dr. Boyd Litzinger, dean of the schol of Arts and sciences at St. Bonaventure University; Dr. Robert Giroux, president of Clarke College, Dubuque, Iowa; and Dr. John Duggan, vice president for student affairs at Vassar College. 
Following the December 14 Board of Regents meetinng, each Regent was asked to submit his 
recommendation concerning the five presidential candidates to the Corporate Board Chairman. 
Since that time, the Corporate Board has been reviewing the candidates, evaluating the Regents' 
recommendations, and interviewing each of the five. 
by Kathy Mills 
Staff Reporter 
Hectors of Notre Dame residence halls, expressing their opinions of the Grace Hall plan to attempt ex­perimental co-educational living, presented a variety of ideas. Several rectors said that they had not formed an opinion on the proposal, since they did not have ~ufficient knowledge of it. 
!<'ather William Presley, rector of St. Edward Hall, thought that the Grace hall plan is "not clear." He remarked that he would possibly favor a plan for coed living. under the right circumstances and with the right kind of supervision. 
Brother John Benish of Alumni Hall explained that his only source of information on the plan was the Obs••rn•r. However, he asserted that he "is not sure that Notre Dame has the right situation yet for coed living. Coeducation was a great and positive step. All are slowly becoming accustomed to that. But more time is necessary befored coed living is to be at­tempted with success." 
Hector of Sorin, Father Richard Zang, stated that he did not think his knowledge of the proposed plan for l'oed living was sufficient to evaluate it, adding that he "would like to know more about it. I might be· con­vinced if I had more information." 
He remarked that he had heard "mixed reports" on l'oed living. but that an experiment with townhouses proved successful according to one report, from another college. 
l\lort> timt> net>ded 
Zang also said that some form of co-institutional living. whereby men and women would live in separate buildings but would share certain facilities such as study lounges, would be a "promising next step." 
Both Father Thomas Chambers of Morrissey Hall and Sister Barbara Counts of Lyons Hall declined statement on the proposal since, due to their recent absence from the campus, they have not yet read the Grace hall plan. 
Counts, however, stated that she favors some form of coed living, because it enables the student to make a choice for his living style. She also said that she does not foresee an increase in the frequency of sex code violations zs a result of coed living, and that im­provement in the male-female relationship depends on people, not on the dorm. 
Afew rectors pointed out the merits of the Grace Hall plan. recommending it for further analysis. Howard Rector Father Eugene Gorski stated that the proposal is "an idea worthy of further study. If it 

was properly studied and introduced in an intelligent Miceli went on. "I think it's a step sideways rather way. coed living would enhance the quality of life at than forward or backward. There has to be a need for Notre Dame." somt>thing like this to occur. For example, if Notre 
Gorski said that he does not think coed living would Dame accepted 400 women, then I would see the need result in more violations of the sex code, although he for this coed dorm proposal.stressed the need for specialized training and reflec­He concluded that the plan· would create more tion for staff members. 
problems than it would solve. "Let's work on what we Hight people, right reasons have now," he contended. 
Ms. Helen Gallagher, Badin rector, contended that One rector who did not wish to be quoted by name the Grace plan should be considered. said. "There's a couple of ways to look at it: If student 
''I favor a variety of residential accomodations, not lived in an apartment, they would live together and l'omplete coed housing. Campuses as large as this form their own values, which I think is important in should have different types of residences. Things such developing their own responsibility to these values. But as the Grace plan offer something for students ready to ' tht>n again. students might need more structure that a go into it." she stated. l'oed dorm would give them to form these values." 
Gallagher observed that the coed dorm will not do This rector continued, "It's hard to say what is best anything one way or another to affect the atmosphere for the students involved. As freshmen, they need more 
between men and women unless the right people with structure than upperclassmen in developing their the right reasons to go into the dorm. values." She added that she has no "suspicion" of an increase 
\ worthwhile experimentin the number of sex code violations, "although it 

would depend on the students and their reasons for Sister Jean Lenz.rectorof Farley Hall, commented, living in a coed hall." 
"In some ways it could work but then again I wonder ifAccording to Gallagher, one of the merits of the the housing situation is the answer to the com­proposal is that Grace Hall "more readily provides for munication problem. It could be a worthwhile ex­coed living and privacy." 
periment." 
( 'o-institutionalization I<'isher Hall Rector Carl Ebey declined comment on 
Father David Schlaver, Dillon Hall rector, ex­the Grace plan. Ms. Joanne Szafran of Walsh, Father pressing the view that the Grace Hall plan was "not .John Mulcahy of Flanner Hall, Father Richard very well thought out," said that he did not favor the Conyers of Keenan, Father John Lahey from Stanford, proposal. He took the position that Grace is not built for Father George Wiskirchen of Holy Cross Hall, and 
eoed living, and that the basic problem now is more Father ·James Riehle of Pangborn could not be reached housing facilities. 
for comment. 
"Coed living won't solve problems. It could create new ones, as coeducation did, though l;•..·..
I'm not saying that this is not good, . 
that we shouldn't have these 
problems," he remarked. 
Schlaver also said that he does not think coed living has anything to do with the atmosphere between men and women. "That is a per­sonal thing," he explained. 
Wht>rl' will it end? 
Cavanaugh Rector Father 
Matthew Miceli, saying he was 
against the proposal, maintained, 
"I don't understand it; it does not 
make sense. Pretty soon we'll have 

coed rooms and if we go any fur­Dillon Hall Rector, Fr. Dave Badin Hall Rector, Helen Gallagher
ther, where is it going to end?" Schlaver (Staff photo by Chris (Staff photo by Harry Bush)Smith) 


the observer Monday, February 24, 1975 

Family had planned hospitalization 
Hijack attempt thwarted 
SMC Social Commission presents: 



PAPER CHASE 
Thurs. Feb. 27 in Little Theatre -SMC Friday Feb. 28 in Carroll Hall -Madeleva -SMC 
$1.25 9 p.m. and 11 p.m. 

BRASILIA <UPI) A hijacker shot to death by police Saturday after an eight-hour siege aboard a Brazilian Boeing 737 was due to enter a mental institution Sunday for treatment of a nervous disorder, relatives said. 
"We had planned to tranquil­ize him and bring him to Goiania where he was to be hospitalized," the hijacker's sister-in-law, Alaide Siqueira, said in a telephone interview. 
The government identified the hijacker as Joel Siqueira Jr., 30, an economist with a state agriculture company in the Brazilian interior. 
The government announce­ment said only that Siqueira was shot, but a doctor who participated in the rescue operation said he was dead. 
When Siqueira let all 28 women and three children among the 80 persons aboard leave the aircraft at Brasilia, four policemen slipped aboard and shot Siqeira in the head and in the chest. 
Mrs. Siqueira said the family had planned to take Siqueira from the small city of Inhumas to Goiania, 35 miles to the northeast. for treatment. 
"He suffered a nervous disturbance from too much studying and working and the hijacking of the airplane was the result of his imbalance, because he never had any involvement in political mat­ters." Mrs. Siqueira said. 
Instead, Siqueira went to Goiania by himself and boarded VASP flight 224 to Brasilia. He carried a small pistol with him. 
Flight steward Eduardo Guarnieri said Siqueira picked up an infant sitting next to him and carried the baby to the cockpit. At the door he put the infant down, grabbed a stew­ardess around the neck and put a gun to her head. 
The plane landed at Brasilia's airport and was immediately surrounded by police and 

K of C aids the mentally retarded with $1000 check 
The Notre Dame Knights of Columbus presented a $1000 check, February 15 to Corvilla, a home for mentally retarded children. The money was raised from the sale of barbecued steak sandwiches at home football games, according to Grand Knight Tom Dechant. 

Thirty K of C members sold one ton of 6 oz. steaks, representing about 5500 steaks, to alumni and fans before the games. 
Corvilla, a privately-run home for retarded children, receives no state or federal aid, and is dependent on donations for its operation. The home, which is operated by volunteer workers, is located on Bulla Road, near the ND library. 
Presenting the check for the Knights of Columbus were: Grand Knight Tom Dechant; steak sales chairman Mark Bonifer; and members Ann Fink, Steve Lucere, Chris DeDiana, and Bill Alban. 
heavily armed soldiers from the air force. 
Police played a waiting game, promising to fulfill his demands for the release of two prisoners and actually collect­ing most of the $1.3 million he ordered brought to the plane. 
The pilot, Jose Maria Barroso Aragao, told authorities the hijacker was "mentally deran­ged." He had demanded para­chutes, pistols, ransom money, the release of political priso­ners, a radio and the broadcast of a vaguely-worded com­munique calling for change in Brazil and citing Jesus Christ, Leonardo da Vinci and other historical figures. 


warld briefs 
NEW YORK !UPI> --Sen. Jacob Javits, R-N.Y., Sunday proposed incorporating Israel into NATO to insure that country's continued existence. 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. !UPI> -A tornado roared across Tuscaloosa, Ala., Sunday, killing one person and injuring 60 others while uprooting trees and damaging homes and businesses. Heavy snow blocked roads and surprised residents of Texas, Arkansas and Oklahoma, where twisters began to skip across the South of Saturday. 
PHNOM PENH !UPil --Rebel forces blew up an ammunition clump and hit a hospital Sunday in another day of rocket bom­bardment of the Cambodian capital and its airport. One person was killed and nine were wounded. 
WASHINGTON ( UPI) -A $3.2 million electronic surveillance system--which includes 109 television cameras with "instant replay" capability--will be in operation at the Capital about April!, a science publication reported Sunday. 
NI<~W YORK !UPil -Prize-winning Soviet author Alexander Solzhenitsyn in 1965 considered taking his own life after secret police seized his unpublished works, Time magazine reports in its current issue. 
BI<~RLIN (UPI> --International socialist leaders are showing positive interest in Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger's Middle East peace missions and will support efforts toward a permanent settlement there, former Chancellor Willy Brandt said Sunday. 

an campus taday 
monday, february 25, 1975 

4:15 pm--rugby practice begins at stadium tunnel, new members welcome. 
5:30 pm--meeting, circle k club, faculty dining hall. 7 pm--presentation by L.I.F.E. group with barbra breuer-slpple, grace pit. 
7:30 pm--lecture, "rural and urban teamwork," by james r. get­tlnger, carroll hall, smc. 8& 10 pm--movie, "to have and have not," eng. aud. 8-10 pm--opening, contemporary master graphics, isis gallery 
WackyWinterWeekend events washed out by wicked weather 
by Katie Kerwin Staff Reporter 
Wet, warm weather washed out the Wacky Winter Weekend, ex­cept for the dance at St. Mary's. Friday's ice skating and all of Saturday's events were cancelled due to continuous rain and lack of snow. 
"We were very disappointed, but we had checked the weather reports and everything pointed to more rain later in the day," said Kathy Smouse, hall co-Qrdinator for the ND-SMC Social Com­mission. "We hated to cancel it, but we did not expect people to come out in the rain." 
Rich Cartilidge, who like the rest of the Commission members spent the last three weeks planning the weekend, echoed Smouse's feelings. "Needless to say, we were all let down, but there would have been no interest." 
Friday night's dance, the only !:'vent which did take place, was termed a success by several of the planners. Between 650 and 700 people attended from Notre Dame and St. Mary's. The Bump Contest, judged by Tom Parise, Steve Niehaus, Tom Blake, and Tony Montagnese, was won by Daryl Chock of Farley Hall and her partner, Pete Kinsella of Grace Hall. "One Way," a band from Chicago, played at the dance, which lasted until 1:30 a.m. 
At midnight the raffle ticket dt·awing was held and John Pietzack of Flanner Hall, the winner, chose the trip to Daytona for two as his prize. 
Enough raffle tickets were sold to cover the prize and the costs of publicity and ticket printing. The money taken in at the door at the dance was sufficient to pay for the band. 

The Commission had made 
, provisions for a lack of snow and had a list of substitutes to fall back on. Unfortunately, all the sub­stitutes were outdoor events which also had to be cancelled because of the rain. The decision to cancel Saturday night's activities was made at 9 a.m. Saturday. 
Friday night's skating party as wl:'ll as Saturday's ice events were cancelled when Lake Marian melted. Also cancelled were the hot dog barbecue. the Snow Tire 
PLUS SUGARlOAF
..., 
FLASH CADILLAC· 
WINGS STADIUM • KALAMAZOO ~.:::• ..,._...;.;;. WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 26 • 8 P All SEATS $5.50 GENERAL ADMISSION ON SALE AT WINGS STADIUM 
OR BY MAll ORDER TO, Wing• Stadium, 3600 Van Rick Dr., Kalamazoo, Ml .49002. MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO WINGS STADIUM. PLEASE ENQOSE SELF-ADDRESSED 
ENVELOPE. 
Fire, a contest involving throwing snowballs through a hangiqg tire, the frisbee contest, tricycle races, the Snowshoe Shuffle, Brr-lap sack races, and Demolition car event. 
The Social Commission is currently planning to reschedule last Saturday's events for Saturday, March 8, if there is enough interest from the St. Mary's and Notre Dame com­munities and provided the weather cooperates. 
"It's hard to plan anything around here when you can never count on the South Bend weather," said Cartlidge. 
How about a Rollicking Rain Rally? 

MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES * 2 FILMS 
* 
BOOKSTORE 

* 
LIVE FLOOR SHOW 


1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET CALL 282-1206 FOR INFORMATIO 

Monday, February 24, 1975 the observer 
Course evaluation 
SMC Student Assembly vetoes booklets 
by Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's Student Assembly voted last night against including St. Mary's classes in the course evaluation booklets for next semester. 
According to a proposal sub­mitted by Academic Affairs Commissioner Tess Lehman, the Notre Dame Course Evaluation Committee offered St. Mary's a number of pages in its upcoming course evaluation booklet to evaluate its courses. 
Were SMC to accept the in­vitation, Lehman noted, it would be charged $25 per page. She estimated the total cost for the St. Mary's section between $400 and $900, while the total cost of producing the booklet will range from $1500 to $1900. 
A total of 5000 copies of the booklet would be distributed throughout the two campuses, stated the proposal. 
If the proposal were successful, 
a committee headed by Kathy 
McGuiness would have been 
formed to conduct the evaluations. 
and course descriptions. Deadline· 
for the evaluations was March 5, 
while course descriptions was 
March 11. 
However, several members 
stated that St. Mary's had not been 
given sufficient notice to complete 
course evaluations. 

Operation Brainstorm 
Ombuds~nan sponsors contest 
A $50.00 cash prize will be awarded for the best suggestion submitted to Operation Brain­storm, an idea contest sponsored by the Ombudsman Service. Beginning today through March 12 all Notre Dame undergraduates may submit an unlimited number of ideas in the social, service, and policy areas. 
Other contest prizes including two tickets for a Student Union concert, $3.00 in McDonalds' gift certificates and an 8x10 autographed glossy of the Notre Dame celebrity of your choice will be awarded as first, second and third prizes in each of the three idea divisions. 
Judges for the contest will be three faculty~staff members of the Ombudsman Advisory Board. Ideas will be judged on the following criteria: the originiaity of the idea, its practicality, and how well the idea has been im­plemented by the contestant. Implementation should be detailed as possible with considerations for cost, manpower, lead time, and duration time of the proposed idea. 
Sponsored by the Community Relations Division of the Om­budsman Service, OPERATION: BRAINSTORM hopes to tap the resources of students, giving them 

"Brecht's 'Galileo' is a distinguished piece of work." 
-Sorurdoy Review 

'rickets: $5.00 Evenings. $3.50 Matinees. ($2.50 lor Senior Citizens/Students at Matll!ees .) Available after AFT"Season Ticket holders are seJ!Ited. 
Chris .Albosta, student affairs commis~·ioner, questioned whether SMC should evaluate its courses. "First, have the departments set up their courses for next year? And if they have, many of the courses that they are planning to offer are new. Thirdly, it seems that whenever course evaluations come out, and the course is labelled 'mediocre' or 'jock,' that 
course  is  immediately  changed  
into  an  extrememly  difficult  
course."  
"Last  semester,"  Albosta  

continued, "we <St. Mary's~ were given six days notice to include course evaluations in the booklet, and it seems that a similar situation has come up again. In addition, they <the booklets) didn't come out until after pre­registration. If the same thing happens again this semester. evaluations won't be worth­thwhile.As a result, the Assembly tabled the measure for this year, but decided to reconsider it next year. 
Following more discussion,' an amendment charging next year's vice president for academic affairs with the duty of investigating the feasibility of St. Mary's par­ticipation in the course evaluation booklet was passed. 
Salary for Editor 
After long debate, discussion, 
an opportunity to speak out and c o n t r i b u t e constructive suggestions. Secondly, the program wishes to have available new ideas as well as plans to im­plement these suggestions for the incoming Student Body officers. 
The final aim of the campaign is to put the Community Relations Division in direct contact with the student body at large. 
"We can't serve the students unless they know we exist," stated head of the division, Steve Lucero. Other division members, Jack Pizzolato and Bridget O'Donnell are working on the mechanics, rules, and advertising for the campaign. 
Previous to Operation Brain­
storm the division has sponsored 
the Thanksgiving reception at 
Darby's place, the weekly Action 
Express column, and relations 
within the South Bend Community. 
Operation Brainstorm will be the 
first major Ombudsman project 
run under the direction of the 
Service's new Director , junior 
Matt Cockrell and new Deputy 

ARE YOU SICK AND TIRED OF HAVING NOTRE DAME TREAT YOU LIKE A KID? DO YOU HAVE A COMPLAINT, CRITICISM, 
IDEA, COMPLIMENT, OR OPINION ABOUT THE WAY THINGS ARE DONE? 
BE AT LAFORTUNE BALLROOM WEDNESDAY NIGHT, 6:30 IF YOU DON'T SPEAK UP NOW, YOU MIGHT NOT GET THE CHANCE TO DO IT LATER! ! 
and numerous proposals and amendments, the Assembly also voted to investigate the structure of the SMC yearbook the Blue Mantle, as well as to study questions of allotting a salary and­or giving academic credit to the Blute Mantle editor. 
The action came as a result of requests by the editor of the Mantle, Patti Lurel, to receive a salary of $450. 
An investigating committee of six Student Assembly represen­tatives, Kathy Carrigan, Ann Deighen, Joan Durlacher, Cindy Raccuglia, Kathy Sheedy, and Gloria Ybarra, was formed. 
Lurel said that last year was the 
first time that the eidtor of the 
yearbook was paid. Co-editors 
Natalie Dwyer and Judy Moore 
received $250 apiece. She con­
tended that should her request be 
approved, this action should be a 
precedent for further years. 
The editor maintained that the editor should be the only paid position on the yearbook, and that in the case of co-editorship the salary awarded to one editor should be split between the two. 
When Assembly members 
questioned the feasibility of 
granting academic credit rather 
than a salary, Garrett noted that 
last year, a salary was awarded to 
the co-editors, after they were 
refused credit. 
Director and Personnel Officer Tom Gibbons. 
The emphasis in the social area is on entertainment and ideas may involve various recreations, relaxations or amusements. Service ideas should involve furnishing goods and services for the students or the University community at large such as the existing book exchange and Quickie Bus system. Policy ideas should be related to University procedures and activities such as Freshman Orientation and housing. 
The contest begins at 5:00 p.m. 
Monday, February 24 and runs 
until 6:30 p.m. March 12. Final 
results will be announced Wed­
nesday, March 19. 
Guidelines and entry forms for 
Operation Brainstorm will be 
available in the halls, Darby's 
Place, and the Ombudsman office. 
Completed forms may be returned 
to Dining Hall collection boxes, 
Darby's Place, or the Ombudsman 
Office, second floor LaFortune. 
Further questions may be directed 
to the Ombudsman Service at 7638. 

Coffeeshop renovation 
Kathy Carrigan, co-ordinator of the coffeeshop renovation, stated that the $5000 received from student government and an equal amount received from Dr. Henry, former SMC president, from the College's fund, was used to pur­chase carpeting, furniture, and curved screens for the coffeeshop. 
Of the initial $10,000, she noted that $2600 remains. This money will pay for the replacement of the wall murals. Photo silk screens of on-campus scenes, designed by two former art majors, Sue Freid and Kathy Shell will cover some of th~ walls. The remaining walls Will be covered with brown corkboard, she stated. 
Representative impeached 
In other action, the Assembly, after much debate, agreed that one representative who had been absent from Assembly meetings all semester "did not fulfill her elected duties to the Student Assembly," and consequently was removed from office. Her name is being withheld. 

20th Anniversary Sale 
Amplifiers, Drums, Guitars, & Moog Synthesizers up to 40% off 
Imperial Music 
911 W. McKinley College Square Mishawaka, Ind. All other merchandise also reduced 

belltawer views~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~
THE OBSERVER 
ANINDEPENDENTSTUDENTNEWSPAPER 
Throw Away
News: 283-1715 Business: 283-7471
Editorial: 283-8661 
Tom Drape Terry Keeney 

The Stilts
Fred Graver 
Editor-In-Chief News Editor 


AI Rutherford Bob zovas Business MaMger
MaMging Editor 
Editorial Editor 

Bob McManus Advertising MaMger 
Monday, February 24, 1975 

Time To Experiment 
The proposal to make Grace Hall a dormitory for both men and women is not so radical an idea. 
After all Fr. McNally, Grace rector, has not proposed a permanent transfer of women to live in adjoining rooms with the men on each floor. l\lcNally is instead calling for il one-year ex­pt:>rimt>nt involving only 100 women who would occupy one section on each of four floors. If this t>xperiment in co-educational living did not work, it \\'ould be justifiably discarded after one year. 
What makes this proposal so radical is not what it 1s trying to do for one residence hall, but what it would be doing to an entire University. This proposal cuts to the heart of certain assumptions made by this University in its attempt to implement co-education. 
In many colleges and universities across the country, co-ed housing is merely a logical extension of becoming a co-educational institution. How the Officers of the University handle this proposal will indicate how seriously committed they are to co­education. 
The report of the Committee on University Priorities <COUP> stated that by fall, 1975, 1500 women undergraduates will be enrolled at Notre Dame. After 1975 co-education is up for grabs: no quotas for woman's enrollment has yet been set. 
To favorably coHsider the Grace Hall proposal would represent a further commitment to the success of co-education at Notre Dame. If one is truly committed toward making Notre Dame a good place for both men and women to learn and live together, one must provide an atmosphere con­ducive to that end. To men and women together under the same roof it goes a long way toward making co-education more natural. 
At a University that seems so conspicuously concerned with enforcing rules governing sexuality and immoral behavior the move toward co-ed 
facilities would seem to be a logical step. Ex­
perience at other universities across the country, 
including major Catholic universities, has shown 
that the co-ed dorm produces men and women who 
live together more as brother and sister. It is a 
more natural environment for more meaningful 
relations between men and women. 
The co-ed facility would be a small step toward 
removing barriers between the sexes caused by 
imbalanced ratios and male tradition of this 
University. 
The McNally proposal is to be presented to the 
Committee on Undergraduate Life, composed of 
students, faculty and administrators. They will 
consider it and decide whether to recommend it to 
the Board of Trustees. Yet to receive passage it 
must meet some endorsement from the Officers of 
the University. 
Thus far, the proposal has met no official com­
ment from the officers. One might get the feeling 
that there has been no comment because the notion 
has little, if any, chance of passing. If this is the 
case, it would be a shame that the University would 
again be selling its students short. 
By ruling ~t this proposal without serious discussion, the University would not only be depriving its students of the chance to live in this educational experiment, but also would be denying an opportunity to improve the atmosphere of co­
education here. 
This proposal may not be implemented this fall or 
t>ven the following year. The point is that co-ed 
living is a question that must be considered now. It 
merits discussion in the same seriousness and good 
faith with which it was proposed. 
The proposal calls only for an experiment. At this point we cannot afford to pass up such a worthwhile l'Xperiment. 
Terry Keeney 


mary sheeran 

After three and one half years of college, and after over fifteen years of formal education, I've made an astounding discovery. I hate school. 
And yet, I make that statement in lieu of my education. I am grateful for the wonderful books and writers I have been exposed to, but now I can't help but think that I would be better off reading and making discoveries on my own. As a matter of fact, most of the people I know have reflected that what one most remembers is the endeavor that has been explored by the self. 
I remember opening books with a delightful feeling of ex­citement. Now I open books with a sense of anxiety. I know no one who reads one book at a time these days, and sole enjoyment of one book is colored by the fact that there are four or five other books waiting to be read. Interpretations of Tolstoy are bound to be colored by the fact that one is also reading Plath, More, and Tolkien at the same time. 
Then there are the inanities that go on in a liberal arts institution which. because it is an institJftion, daily contradicts its own reasons for existence. 
Par example: 
For the past several years, I have been doing a good deal of private, on-my-own reading about Virginia City, Nevada <as in Bonanza? l. Well, one day last year, I wrote a paper about it, a huge mass of fifty pages, for a history course. The professor of the class was somewhat impressed and recommended that I travel to Virginia City for the summer to study.<Some people spend their lives saving for a trip to Europe. I dream of Virginia City.) 
Well, money. Need I say more? So the good prof <today's hero, folks l volunteered to recommend me for a grant from the college. I didn't really expect to get to Nevada in the end, but the whole idea was a fascinating adventure as it turned out. 
First. we went to see Dr. Henry who had only just announced his resignation. Our former president was superb, even to the point of offering coffee, and he sincerely believed that I should obtain the grant. Two things prevented him from doing so: a) he was a "lame duck" president, and b) there was no real precedent for giving a student money. Although Dr. Henry was certain that I was not the type to grab the money and run for a vacation in Reno, the precedent for granting money to a student to study was, and is, dangerous. They may be training us, but they don't really trust us when it comes down to the important things in life. 
At the same time, I was assured that the money itself was no problem. The college had the means to help students on in­dependent study, it just needed a reason. 
Dr. Henry suggested that I see certain other i}eople who might be able to help me. From office to office I went in search of someone­anyone -who trusted a St. Mary's student. Always I met the at­titude that my genuine desire to study was but a whim (after six years of work> and that undergraduates do not like school. It is r·ather funny that once the undergraduate becomes a graduate, ( s l he becomes not only trusted and respected but eligible for all sorts of foundations and fellowships. So from office to office I went, as J was saying, and everyone said, "Well, we aren't in charge of that. --has authority in that line." (The buck was passed t:>verywhere but to me, in fact.>. Finally, I was told, "No one·has ~:>ver come to us with a request such as yours before, and we don't know how to handle it." 
That from a school which claims to instill creativity in its students! 
Then we have the teachers who dictate how you should think, talk, sit. and believe. Usually, these instructors are either very old or very young; trying to create a mass of ideal students or trying to hide their own, understandable, inferiority complexes. In­tellectual snobbery is a well practiced sham of many of us. Art, literature and "culture" are not above us, but we put them up there. I am reminded of a line from An Actor Prepares by Stanislavski: "As soon as you hear the word creativeness, you all want to climb on your stilts." 
Then. blessedly, there are the rewards, those teachers who look on teaching as sharing and who look on sharing as a mutual growth, whether that growth be written or spoken. They don't feel as if they have to sound profound all day long, every day (goodness! what a burden!>. 
Why does education have to overdo it? All we need is a library, a few "guiding lights", some peer pressure. We learn the most by learning ·ourselves-if, and here's the catch, our previous training has been adequate, but that's another story. If we have the desire to learn, and we should, since here we all are, we will learn. If we don't have the desire, we should get out. I'm tired of everyone designing school for people who don't like it. If that's the way of the academic world, the people who really do like learning lose out. 
Sort through all the trash with patience, and the radiance of sincerity can sometimes be blinding. I've worked enough so that I have been to Virginia City mal!)' times in my imagination, and that's what matters the most. I guess we have to endure sitting through all those pretenses at intellectualism including six syllable words of explanation. Still, we sit there, understanding every word, discussing Blake and Goethe in sterile cubicles of cement. Shudder. 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 


Monday, February 24, 1975 the observer 
5 

building an artistic tradition 
a review by peter winkler 
-
The work of Joe Jachna, the second major photographic exhibition of the year, is now showing until March 2 in the Notre Dame Art Gallery in O'Shaughnessy Hall. It is a one-man exhibition, almost overwhelming as a display of photographic talent; Jachna himself is generally recognized as one of the most exciting 'young' photographers at work now in the United States. In fact, he was cited in last year's Time-Life l'hotog•·aph~· Yea•· 1974 as one of the four "discoveries" of the year. He was also the man responsible for the establishment of photography as a permanent part of the St. 1\lary's curriculum when he taught there over a decade ago. 
l\1r. Jachna 's work differs radically from that of Minor White. exhibited earlier this year. in many respects--from technique to inspiration and subject matter. While White could Pasily be fit into the category of ·photo-realist.' no such simple classification will do for Jachna. In a sense. he is building on an artistic foundation laid by White and his contemporaries. His work ranges from I he Iight-hearted to the exceedingly powl'rful. and is ultimately worth the time 
and study needed to approach it. It is not the Pasily approached and appreciated look at :\nwrican nature and life found earlier in the work of 1\linor White. 
In the first place. Jachna does not work with the rhythmically contrasted lights and darks Pncountered in White's pieces. He is simply not as lyrical. He moves into more subtly defined and related areas of greys, mto more confused. almost erratic moving forms. Itt• has. on one occasion, defined his art with these words: "Photography, for nw. is a matter of constant and very critical observation. At some point while photographing. the camera seems to live, and I just follow it around making the ad­justmt•nts and control necessary to record properly what it sees." This is a philosophy remarkably similar to that espoused by WhitP. yet it requires only a quick glance to st'P that the camera has led Jachna into a far different world. It is is a world at times almost surrealistic. populated by elongated human figures. eonfining curved horizons of naturP and l'ity. a world unmistakeably stamped with Janchna 's own personality. 

To ::;om Pone first viewing Jachna 's photography. one thing more than any other will stand out--the mastery and concern of tht> artist over the textures of his images. It is not the whole which first catches the eye; it is the form in its details. Perhaps no other photograP.her today can convey with the samt• conviction the 'feel' of his subject mattt•r. The rocks. the wood, the fields, even the human hands which are the concerns of his pieces all come across through the definition and detail of their individual grain anrl texture. Bevond ·the detail, we move into the world. of Jachna--the twisted, 

distorted. at times almost absurd images 
which these details go to form. Through 
lt>ns-effect and lighting, Jachna portrays 
nature and object in a series of ellipses, 
eon voluted and curving back upon them­
::;plves. And at the center more often than 
not wt• find a human arm seen from an 
impossible angle. elongated beyond all 
proportion or belief; the fingers are poin­
ting, the hands become mountains against 
the sky. Often they hold mirrors, and in 
them, a reflected sky, or surrounding 
nature. On the whole, it is a picture of man 
overwhelming nature, and not naty.r~ 
overwhelming man as we found in White. This use of mirrors is one of the most interesting facets of Jachna 's work. Like many of his other devices, they are used to limit rather than to expand his images. His lines. too. are always bounded by their perpendiculars; his curves eventually limit themselves. His skies, as a rule, are masses of clouds. not the expansive vistas so common in Minor White. As several of .lachna 's pieces actually portray, his is a nature bounded by fences and shut gates. His streets and roads always end before the picture does. and his trees do not stand straight. but twist and turn as if bent by somt• force outside them. About the only true unbounded images in his work are the human figures. or more appropriately the human limbs. They seem to stretch out forever. or to grow and towt>r against the sky--to point to the horizon and beyond. 
Thus. in Jachna, we find a world in which man places himself out of proportion to the nature of things. It is a world where dark sets off darker. rather than light. Perhaps this is a pessimistic view. In any ease. it is a ,·iew which Jachna has managed to convey skillfully and coherently. His work is an ('xcellent contrast to the other exhibitions now hanging in the Gallery. To the realistic stolid figures of Pearlstein. are opposed cuning horizons and disproportionate limbs. Against the jumble of color and hope that is Vytlacil. is set the grey. limited, and limiting world of Jachna. It is difficult to say which view hangs more succinctly together. And somt• hesitations must be noted, that perhaps Jachna tries too hard to over­whelm. So many of his works are hung that the impression is crushing. And again, .Jachna has a tendency to intellectualize too strongly. His work strikes the mind sharply, yet often it can brush past the emotions, though perhaps as he matures, he will also learn to work more with feelings. 
All of this. of course, adds to the over­whelming, battering impression of Joe .lachna 's photography. His work does not strike gently--it slams, and it requires only a ' isit to see why he is considered one of the brightest and most promising photographers at work today. 

slf --between author and audience 
a preview by don roos 
Exactly what is the Sophomore Literary Ft•stival? To many students--freshmen or upperclassmen who have carefully avoided it in years past--the answer to the question is \·ague. confused, or inaccurate. Chris 1\lahon. chairman of this year's Festival committee. maintains that "Understanding of the goals and structure of the Festival may encourage greater participation, and student-faculty participation is crucial to the Ft>stival's success." 
According to Mahon. the Festival has two aspects: cultural and social. "This is an opportunity to both listen to what the authors have to say and also to meet and converse with them afterwards." 
The readings, held in the Library Auditorium and in Washington Hall, are the primary means of communication between author and audience. Excerpts from their works. or lectures on an aspect of writing, will be read by each author every evening throughout the Festival week. Three categories of fiction will be explored in these hour-long presentations: poetry. drama, and prosl'. All n•adings are free and open to the public. "B('cause we are interested in two­way eommunication, all the speakers will take questions, after their presentations, from the audience." 
In addition to the readings, several authors are planning visits to classes during the day. Most of these classes are in the t<:nglish or American Studies fields, although .Joseph Brodsky, a Russian poet, may attend government and Russian classes. This provides an opportunity for professors and students to talk with an author whose works they may be con­sidering in the course of the semester. In the past--and hopefully this year--interviews with various authors have been available on local TV and radio shows. 
In addition to the cultural opportunities, 
the eommittee is sponsoring a number of social activities. where the authors and the students may meet on a more informal basis. After each presentation a reception for the author will be held in the Library l.ounge. The public is invited to have a cup of l'offee and meet the author. Books by the author will be offered for sale, and light rl'freshmt•nts will be provided. 

A Lal<'ortune open house will be held \\'('dnesday t•vening in the Ballroom, after .John Logan's presentation in the Library Auditorium. Aside from the opportunity of mPeting the authors on campus at the time-­.lames T. l<'arrell, John Logan, and Michael Hyan--students and faculty will have a l'hance to mix in an informal, social at­mosphere. Again, the public is invited, and light refreshments will be served. 
PPrhaps what makes the Festival unique among literary events across the country is that it is a totally student-organized project. And in the case of this festival, the students arP sophomores. Although the advice of past 
FPstival workers and this year's faculty advisors. Dr. Ernest Sandeen and Dr. Donald Sniegowski, has been invaluable, Mahon credits much of this year's progress to the hard working sophomores. Publicity director John Eidt has been busy throughout the year contacting radio and television ::;tations. newspapers, magazines, and outlining the extensive campus publicity, while social director Dave Dreyer and "special arrangements" directors Kathy lkPauw and Gerry Doyle have been devising ways to make the Festival come in closer contact with students, faculty, and nwmbers of the South Bend community. Of course there are more sophomores in­volved--40 in all--and under the direction of Chris Mahon and Jim Dolinsky, associate ('hairman. they hope to present a Festival that is enjoyable. enlightening, and stimulating for all who choose to par­ticipate. 

blood baths and idealistic battles 
From Ernest Hemingway's For Wh6m the Bell Tolls to segments of James Michener's Iberia, the Spanish Civil War has fascinated the American literary mind. In William Herrick's novel Hermanos (Spanish for brothers l this author characterizes the blood bath as the last battle for idealism in the twentieth century. If Herrick had the writing power of Hemingway or Michener, perhaps this statement would be believable, but it is not and neither is Hermanos. 
The plot is sickeningly predictable and lacks originality. Several American revolutionaries become enamored with the Spanish dream of ousting Francisco Franco and his fascists. Immediately one realizes the revolutionairies' struggle is in vain, for the Generalissimo remains in power. The central character, Jake Starr, works temporarily for the Communist organization in Paris to train troops for the Spanish front. He is dedicated to the party­nothing can dampen his yearning for the cause of freeing the oppressed people of the world. In the City of Light Starr meets Sarah Ruskin, who also works for the party, and of course Jake and Sarah fall in love, but one complication-she is married to Professor Rolf!'! Ruskin, an aristocratic Nobel laureate, albeit a party member. The love affair between Sarah and Jake sup­posedly is more interesting because Sarah has a strict moral upbringing, and she fights guilt feelings about committing adultery. 
The party is angered over the love affair and transfers Jake to Spain, where he becomes the most :inspiring leader of the faltering revolutionary army. He rallies his motley crew to win several battles; however, Jake is seriously wounded in one skirmish and has to leave the front for recuperation. Soon Sarah arrives and the two continue their affair and finally decide to find their paradise elsewhere, because the revolutionaries are losing the war­nothing but futility is seen in the oolitical 

a review by steve sorrel/ 
future of Spain. Sarah escapes to France; because all writers do this now. The Jake is to soon follow but several of the relationship between Jake Starr and Sarah party's cronies meet him at the foot of the Ruskin is based on sex ; their love is Pyrenees where he is murdered by his physical and lacks spiritual depth. comrades for desertion. 
Even the names William Herrick uses are 

The book is simply a disaster; the novel blase. Honestly, one must be more originalhas many failings. The battle scenes are than names as Joe Garms and Jake Starr. 
monotonous--one tires of dodging enemy bullets and tramping through the Spanish countryside. Jake's fighting comrades, especially Joe Garms, are stereotyped. Among the revolutionaries there has to be that Jew from Chicago and that naive student from an Ivy League university-­Herrick has them all. The characters are ironic for they hate killing, but come to love it. They are driven only by the cause, food, and sex. The reader easily becomes an expert on Spanish whorehouses-Herrick tours one through them all. Herrick believes sex has to be an integral part of the novel, but his sexual scenes add nothing to his book. Sex is merely thrown into the book Yet these names reflect the book-plain, 
nothing different. S.O.S. The sex scenes, 
cursing, and violent and sickening battles, 
do not perk up this novel of the tragic 

Spanish Civil War. The novel lacks the in­­
tensity which characterizes the Iberian 
peninsula. There is no blazing sun; there are 
few of those mysterious, dark-eyed 
senoritas. Catholicism is absent, and Spain 
without religion is like this country without 
apple pie. Herrick forgets about Spain-its 
emotionality and the bitter battle the 
Spanish fought--and concentrates on his shallow, plastic revolutionaries. Perhaps William Herrick should retitle this novel from Hermanos to Oh! Brother! 

-
the observer Monday, February 24, 1975 
South Bend chapter 
Help sought by Hotline 
by Robt>rt Jacques  
Staff Reporter  
The  South  Bend  Hotline  is  
presently  in  the  process  of  
recruiting volunteers to  serve  as  

listeners on the service's two phone lines. 
This announcement was recently made by Kevin <who prefered to use only his first name in order to preserve the anonymity of the service), a regular volunteer and the Notre Dame co-ordinator for the Hotline. He stated that while the group currently has a staff of thirty-six, he would like to see it doubled this spring. 
The Hotline provides counseling service over the phone to anyone who calls. According to Kevin, the service has been averaging six hundred calls per month so far this ~·ear. Most of them are concerned with relationships between people, whether it be within or outside of the family. A large number are also concerned with drugs. 
Approximately six months ago the Hotline underwent a change in management when it left the Youth Service Bureau to go under the auspices of the United Way. MANASA. which runs several other volunteer programs, serves as a recruiting agent for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
Kevin said that the Hotline's present staff, which includes one full-time director, is over­burdened. He stated that each volunteer now puts in about six hours per week. The regular shift is only four hours. 
While he noted that "quite a few Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
Bid sales for Senior Ball end Friday 
This is the final week for bid sales for the senior ball. Tickets will be on sale Monday through Friday in the dining halls from 5:30 to 6:30 in the LaFortune lobby from 12:00 to 1:00; and at the St. Mary's dining hall from 5:00 to 6:00. 
The ball will be dinner-dance held at the Holiday Inn in Elkhart on Saturday, March 15. Bids for the dance. dinner and open bar cost $26; bids for only the open bar and dance cost $12. Buyers may pay the full amount or put down a $10 non-refundable deposit. 
Anyone having questions may call Ball Chairman Joe Hin­derlong ( 234-1673) or Marlene Zloza <6939l.• 
The Observer Is publiShed dally during the colleve semnter except vacations by the stuoents of the University of Notre Dame Mid St. Mary's College. Sub&crlptlons may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from ·The Observer Box' Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana •6556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

Fran says: 
LESSON IS 
ROCK 'N' ROLL 
IN 
LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
MON. EVE 

-
7-9P.M. REMEMBER: 

A LESSON EVERY MON. $2 
EACH LESSON ALWAYS A BEGINNER 
I 
LESSON 

JUST WALK IN ALONE GROUP-DATE! 
students have used the service," he expressed disappointment in the fact that only about ten students are currently working for the Hotline. Kevin added, "I see the ND-SMC community as a large source of untapped potential help." 
The current recruitment program is looking primarily for freshmen and sophomores, although Kevin stated that in­terested juniors will also be ac­cepted. Interested persons must submit an application to the Hotline office before March 4. An application can be obtained by calling the Hotline (282-2323) or Kevin <283-7252). 
Each applicant will be in­terviewed in order to see whether he might have any personal or psychological problems, such as a susceptibility to shock or anger, that would make him ineligible to work on one of the lines. 
Kevin added that very few people are unable to serve due to personality problems. 
Training sessions will start on March 4 and run for seven weeks, each lasting three hours. In them volunteers will be taught how to handle the various types of calls, including dealing with threats of suicide. 
Besides acting as a counseling service, the Hotline also serves as a referral agency working primarily with DART <Drug Abuse Rescue Team l which deals with people who take overdoses of drugs or have bad trips and need assistance, and the SOS, which handles cases of rape and child molestation. Kevin added that all calls are handled in the strictest confidence and that the police are called in only if requested by the caller. 
Since the Hotline has gained the financial backing of the United Way, the problem of money has been eliminated. The only problems faced by the service is the shortage of workers and the occasional conflict of roles. 
Kevin explained the latter problem as such: "The listeners have to become involved with the callers in order to be effective yet at the same time they must remain impersonal and unattached. It can be touchy and depressing. However, it is probably no worse than a teacher in front of a class of bored students." 
Kevin added that another common problem is that of the crank caller. "People at parties get together and call continuously. It's bothersome and depressing." 
Kevin considers the Hotline to be a very valuable service to the community. For those people who volunteer to help, he added, "You get a feeling of doing something worthwhile. It's helping those who need help. It gives you a good feeling and a sense of satisfac­tion." 


Robinson Jeffers
NO MEDEA 
adapted from Euripedes 
Feb. 20,~-8 pm (No Show Feb. 21}

SMC 
Feb. 23 -2:30 pm Feb. 26, 27, le;Mar.X-8 pm
THEATRE 

O'Laughlin Auditorium Arena Seating -284-4176 
$1.50 Stud-Fac-Staff 

lnPIRG Directors Election 
March 3 7 Directorships Available Interested Candidates Must Meet Monday, Feb. 24 -4 or 6:30PM lnPIRG Office LaFortune 


NICKlE'S 
PRESENTS 


60 HOURS 
OF THE LOWEST BEER PRICES IN THE COUNTRY! 
MON, TUES, WED: 
NOON  -MIDNIGHT  
THURS, FRI, SAT:  
NOON  -8:00 P.M.  

PLUS THE BEST HALF-POUND CHARCOAL GRILLED HAMBURGERS IN TOWN 



Monday, February 24, 1975 
the observer 

-
Schlesinger: Cambodia vvill fall without Arnerican support 
WASHINGTON <UPO -De­fense Secretary James Schles­inger said Sunday Cambodia 
will "absolutely" fall to the Communists if Congress fails to provide an additional $222 million to support the Phnom Penh government. 
Pnomh Penh is virtually surrounded by Communist for­ces. Its supplies have been cut off except for a U .S.-backed airlift. 
Asked if the country will fall without more U.S. funding, Schlesinger said, "Absolutely. I think that the chances of their surviving over a period of many months are minimal without that additional assist­ance ... 
"We have now committed all of the funds that were made 
available,  and  without  those  
funds  Phnom  Penh  cannot  
survive."  

Schlesinger also said he will order the armed services to eliminate the two-year enlist­ment by July 1 in order to cut training costs and have more experienced men in uniform. Minimum enlistment will then 
Near Bloomington 
Three students die 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (UPI)  Police said they were alerted  
Near Bloomington, Ind.,  to the second exploring party  
authorities pulled the bodies of  when an Illinois woman called  
three student explorers from Salamander Cave, where theyapparently became trapped during  ·  Indiana State Police to report her son, an experienced spelun­ 
a flash flood and drowned. Four  ker, and some companions had  
other explorers from Illinois, who  planned to explore Wayne Cave  
were believed trapped in another  Saturday.  
cave two miles away, were found  
unhurt. The foursome were not  
lost, but they said they stayed on  
high ground inside because of the  
flooding.  
State Police said they found a  
jeep and a rope leading into the  
mouth of the second hole,  
known as Wayne Cave, but  
were unable to enter because of  
flooded conditions.  
Police identified the three  
victims pulled from Salamand­ 
er Cave as Terry Lee Yokem,  
18, Kim Alan Aldrich, 19, and  
Marcia Ann Bott, 18, all of  
Indianapolis. Miss Bott and  
Aldrich were students at the  
Indiana University campus in  
Bloomington and Yokem was a  
freshman at the Indianapolis  
Indiana-Purdue campus.  

be three years. 
He defended arms sales to the Middle East on grounds they improve relations with the Arab nations, and warned that the United States intends to "maintain whatever presence is necessary to insure the security of the Persian Gulf from the standpoint of the Western world." 
He called a proposal by Sen. Edward Kennedy, 0-Mass., for a six month moratorium on arms sales to the Middle East a "disastrous policy" because it would force Arab nations and Iran to seek weapons from the Soviets, causing even closer relations with that country. 
Kennedy immediately replied in a statement that if Schlesing­er has a "clear understanding of U.S. interests in the Persian Gulf" he should explain them to Congress. 
Schlesinger was interviewed on ABC's "Issues and An­swers." 
He did not rule out American 
military intervention in the 
Middle East, but said it is a 
remote possibility. "I do not think that the necessity will arise. I think that our relations with the producing states in that area will continue to be harmonious," he said. 

Asked if the presence of U.S. ships in the Persian Gulf and Indian Ocean are an indication to the Soviets that the United States will keep Middle East pipelines open, the Defense Secretary said "I think one might infer that kind of conclusion. 
"What I would say is that the United States intends to main­tain whatever presence is necessary to insure the security of the Persian Gulf from the standpoint of the Western world," he added. 
Schlesinger defended the $104.7 billion budget presented to Congress and said the present rate of U.S. cutbacks in arms, and Soviet advances "will inevitably leave the United States second to the Soviet Union." 
He added that the defense budget could n'ot depend on possibly broadened detente with the Soviets. 
"Our goal is a relaxation of tensions between ourselves and the Soviets, not only in the Middle East but elsewhere. On the other hand, we recognize that utopia has not yet been reached, and that we must be prepared to balance power with 

CLASSIFIED ADS
our own power." 
He said he hoped there would be no continued arms race, but 
·that the United States prepared to match buildups to maintain equilibrium. 
RECREATION WORKER, in group horne for delinquent adolescent qirls. Room and board offered for supervision of 3 recreation activities per week. Full-time work or study outside the horne is permitted. Excellent experience opportunity for Soc., Psych., social work, education, theology, etc., majors. Reply to Carol Wilken, 233-9491. 
GOOD TICKETS FOR THE MARCH 12 JOE WALSH CONCERT AT THE 
A.C.C. ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE. 
INTERHALL HOCKEY TONIGHT: THE OFF-CAMPUS CRUNCHIES VS. THE KEENAN KERN!:LS, 
10:30 AT THE A.C.C. FANS IN­VITED!! 
FOR RENT 
A 6 mo. sublease of a $175.00 1· bedroom apt for only $130. If in­terested call Bonnie, 232-5853.• 
Now renting 2 to 5 bedroom homes. Completely furnished for Sept. Call 234-9364. 
Five and six bedroom houses for rent. Leases run Sept thru May. Excellent condition within' 2 n1ile of campus. 233-2613. 
House for rent, 1 mile from campus, ready for immediate occupancy.233-6438.. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: at DePaul game: NO class ring, TGR '76. Reward. Call Tom, 1768. 
Lost: sterling silver cross, 3• inch, no chain. Between D-1 parking lot and Keenan. Of great sentimental value. Reward offered. If found, call Pat, 3303. 
Found: Calculator. Call to identify. 289-3369. 
PERSONALS 
Andy, It was all a joke. Thanks for the laughs. Ha ha. Fitz, Jammer, George 
To Golden Bear: Thank you tor Valentine's Day and everyday. The Bobbsey Twins, 222 
To Barb of 127 Farley: So you think you're a b-ball star. How about you and I getting together to play my game? 
Monte Towe 
To the Keebler Elf, Congrats! and good luck in the future. 
Hollow Tree Helpers 
To Megan in praise of folly: There once was a girl named Valeria, Who wanted to sing a long aria, That she practiced tis true, Till her face it turned blue, And she sounded Iike she. had rnal'aria. 
Pete Crow proudly announces his engagement to Joni Mitchell. 
Dear Jeff, Thanks Valentine. Better late than never. Tout mon amour. Your Dancer 

-
.... 
must be Soviet military 


SHAMROCK 
SHAKE 
TO ALL TICKET HOLQ.ERS OF THE NOTRE DAME VS DAYTON, MARCH 1,1975 GAME 
IF NOTRE DAME WINS! 
That's right, if our Notre Dame basketball team beats Dayton, March 1, 1975, just present your ticket stub at McDonald's.® We'll give you a mint flavored Shamrock Shake free! Limit one per customer, please. 
Offer valid only at: 
McDonald's ® just north of the Toll Rd. 52665 U.S. 31 N. South Bend, IN 

Offer expires: Friday, March 7,1975 

WANTED  
Wanted: break. Call 289-6760.  2-man tent for  spring  
Ride  tor  two  to  South  ..  Ft.  

Lauderdale. Call 8143. 
Need ride to and from Fl. Lauder. dale spring break. Share driving and expenses. Cnll nround ·midnight, , 8685. 
Ride needed to Chicago Feb. 28, afternoon or evening. Mary, 4543. 
Need ride to Columbus, Ohio, weekend of Feb. 28. Call Chris, 4264. 
Ride wanted for two to NYC area tor spring break. Desperate. Call Donna nt 6906. 
Need ride east (Toledo) weekend of F-t'b. 28. Cilll Ann, 4264-. 
Want to buy girls bike, any speed, 26". Maureen, 233-3758. 
FOR SALE 
Garrard zero-100 with walnut base and dust cover $130. Call Larry, 6864. 
Hexcel Comps and Olin Mark IV's. Good condition. Reasonable, 8012. 
Set of Wilson Blue-Ridge qolf clubs. Right hand. 4 woods, 8 irons. Good condition. For person 5'9" . 5'11". Asking $120. Call Mike, 3134. 
NOTICES 
OBSERVER STAFF: THIS IS YOUR CONSCIENCE SPEAKING! 
"MOM" 
FLORIDA CLUB MEETING TODAY IN LAFORTUNE {ROOM 
20) AT 7:00PM. DON'T FORGET! 
Western Electronics 24 hr. TV service. 1530 Western Ave. 282-1955. 
Money?? Morrissey Loan will lend up to $150 tor 30 days, 1 day waiting period. Bilsement of LaFortune, daily, 11:15 to 12:15. 
S.H.A.R.E. Hotline phone, 4311, rm. 15, Holy Cross, S.M.C. Completely confidential. 8 12 nightly. 
Overseas Jobs . Australia, Europe, 
s. America,. Students, all professions and occupations. $700­$3000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing. Free in. formation. Transworld Research co., Dept. F3, P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera, CA. 94925. 
Disciplinary action hanging over your head? Call Student Govt, 7668. We may be able to help. 
Tune up specialist, 2 barrel carburetor overhaul, $24.95, parts included. 232-1796. 
MEDICAL PRODUCT GROUP DISCUSSION: Any person (student, faculty, or staff) interested in participating in a group discussion of the effectiveness and-or uses of cold and sinus remedies (e.g., Contac, Dristan, Nyquil, Sinutab, Sine-Off, Sine-Aid, and Sinarest) please call Jim at 3155, D.C. at 1739, or Myron at 8687. 
Ron R: Be careful from now on .. you only havt!-so many parts. 
-
the observer Monday, February 24, 1975 

by Bill Brink Knight answered with a tip-in to to score the next 13 points for the pull the Irish within one at 2:21. Demons, accounting for their 
CHICAGO --The excuses are DePaul came back and scored, but halftime total of 38. there if you want to use them; a the basket was disallowed because But not before Digger had matchbox arena where the seats play had started before Dantley something to say about it. Having angle down until it seems that the had stepped in bounds. This gave been scrapping with the refs first several rows are on the court the Irish a second life and even­throughout the first half, he finally with you; the echoing din of the tually the ball, when Bocinsky had had enough when with 3:07left band and the frenetic crowd; the missed from the free throw line. and DePaul leading 34-29, the refs wild, riotous scrapping under the But the Irish could not convert. sent Clay to the "foul line instead of boards made possible by some Dantley, looking to pass un­the obviously-fouled Dantley. rather loose officiating. derneath, threw the ball into the When Dwight missed the shot and 
But when it was all over and De hands of Demon guard Ron Nor­Knight was called for a foul on the Paul had broken Notre Dame's wood who drove down the court for rebound, Digger exploded. Never five game winning streak with a 75-a layup to make the score 73-70 one to understate his case, the 70 victory in Chicago's Alumni Hall with but 0:32 seconds left in the coach earned not one but two Saturday afternoon. no one on the game. After calling time out the technicals. 
The "T" did seem to get

Irish squad used those excuses. Irish came out for their last at­
the Irish back on track though, as

They'd been outplayed and they tempt. but Dwight Clay's 20 footer 
they battled back to within three

knew it. was off. and DePaul had the 
:!8-35 at the end of the half..

"'They deserved to win," said a rebound and the game. A layup by soft -spoken Adrian Dantley after Hobinzine iced it with 11 seconds to "I wanted to get one," said 
Phelps of the technicals. "I was

the game. "Maybe they just go. 
surprised by two. But I think it put 

wanted it more than we did." The game was marked by 
us back in the game."

·'They outplayed us," said Notre tenacious play under the baskets, 
Indeed it was a hard job to stay

!lame coach Digger Phelps. often turning into a wild scramble 
in the game. Besides the excellent 

"'They really crashed the offensive for the ball. Led by the 6-7 
performance of the DePaul

hoards. we couldn'tkeep them off Hobinzine and 6-10 freshman Dave 
players there was the constant

our backs. And we were having Corzine, DePaul used its superior 
roar of the crowd swelling around 

trouble against their zone. It's the height to completely dominate the the players.
first time. we faced a zone for 40 boards. Corzine led all rebounders 
"It seems like everyone is right

minutes except against South with 18 while and contributed 13 
on top of you," said Dantley. "But

Carolina. and it was just a points as well. Robinzine pulled 
we've played in small arenas

situation of hitting who was open." down 14 rebounds and was the before."
Not that the Demons rolled over game's leading scorer with 28 DANTLEY MOVES IN past Demon Bill Robinzine for two points here, 
"We've played all over the

the Irish. The game was close the points. This earned him the but Robinzine was the game star, scoring 28 points
country," Digger agreed. "It's not

whole way, often with the two Wl'ndell Smith award, an honor the crowd. Give them <DePaul) Greg Corgan::::::========:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=======================================================================·
teams trading baskets for several given in memory of the late credit."
minutes at a time. DePaul did pull Chicago sportswriter. away to a 61-54 lead at 8:50 of the Thwarted to an extent by the And though the game appeared second half, but four long jumpers tough DePaul zone, Adrian Dan­to get out of hand at some times, 
The Irish Eye 
by a hot Dave Batton sandwiched tley wound up with 19 points, high the refs were not the target either. around a tip-in by Dantley put the for the Irish. Bill Paterno was next "You just have to play the way Irish ahead 64-63 at the five minute with 14, hitting on mostly zone­refs let it go," said Dantley. "I can :::::::::~:=:===========::::::::::=:::::::::::=:=:=:=:::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:::::::=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=========:=:=:=:===On the road
mark. breaking jumpers from the sides. accept defeat, I'm not going to be CHICAGO -As assistant coach Frank McLaughlin left the locker roomNotre Dame then scored two Toby Knight added 12 while fresh­crying about it." 
after Saturday's loss to DePaul, one sympatl-tetic Irish fan sidled up to
quick ones to lead 68-65, but they man Batton had 10. "We just blew it," Paterno him, and not quite knowing what to say mumbled, "Tough game, Frank."
could n'>t stop the fired-up With Hobinzine scoring short added. 
"It's a tough place to play," answered McLaughlin, and he kind of
Demons. After DePaul pulled jumpers and tip-ins, and the Irish 1~aybe. but the victory was no within one 68-67 with 3:52 getting contributions from nuke for DePaul. In the end it was shook his head and moved on. 
clear that, whatever other factors ''Tough" isn't exactly the right word to describe DePaul's Alumni Hall. 
remaining, Digger called time out l'veryone, the game remained It looks just like a high school gym. The building is in the shape of a giant
and sent his team into the four­close for the first six minutes. were involved, they were not 
corners offense. But Knight was Pnough cloud the clean, well­letter V; there are no seats at either end of the playing surface, and the 
Then Dantley hit four foul shots to 
called for traveling and Demon and a jumper and the Irish had a earned victory for Ray Meyer and bleachers on the side extend all the way from courtside to the upper stratosphere. When the partisan Blue Demon fans became even slightly
star Bill Robinzine put DePaul on 17-10 lead at 12:19 of the first half. his ballclub. 
"This was our best game of the vociferous, and that was often, the place shook like the end of a runway attop 69-68 with a jumper at 2:57. DePaul fought back to finally even O'Hare International.
Jim Bocinsky then hit a the score at 25-25 at 7:40 and then season," said Meyer, and none of 
breakaway layup to make it 71-68. Hobinzine and Corzine got together the Irish could argue. On top of all that, the officiating was positively atrocious, for both sides. The game got completely out of hand, and if Big Ten referees Dick Furey and Tom Ballaban weren't busy blowing calls themselves, they were tied up disagreeing with each other.
leers win, tie with Duluth 
"'Both teams had a few things to say about the officiating," offered by T.E. McHale watched the Irish come from it 4-2 entering the alst 20 minutes. Dl'Paul's Wendel Smith award winner Bill Robinzine after the game. 
Hockey players, by and large, behind to tie the Bulldogs and force Walsh got his second goal of the "There were some very questionable calls on both sides." are a superstitous lot. Even the the game into overtime. Though evening at 21 seconds, but Mike "As far as the officiating goes, " said Digger Phelps, "no comment, best of them, like Phil Esposito and the outcome was not nearly as Newton blasted a 50 foot slap shot according to Big Ten rule 806 or whatever it is. Whatever they want to let Bl'rnie Parent observe extensive decisive, the performance was past a screened Moher at 4:38 and go, they let go. Whatever they want to call, they call." pregame rituals which begin long certainly encouraging. the Irish lead was back to two. The Such are the disadvantages of playing away from home. And on the bl'fore they take the ice. Often, Still. for all their aggressive teams played wide open hockey for road this season, the Irish have had their problems. Despite a respectable these rituals are disrupted by the play. the irish came up empty-the next 10 minutes, and it payed 6-6 mark in visitingarenas opponents' courts have been less than intrusion of omens, the bane of the handed, particularly when off for Notre Dame when Olive friendly. The Irish had easy games at Valpo, Davidson and Villanova as superstitious hockey player. sophomore right wing Alex Pirus scored at 14:44, with Byers and well as a semi-easy time with Butler at Indianapolis. 
All the omens for the Notre hit the crossbar on a three-on-one captain Pat Conroy assisting. In between however, they lost at Pauley Pavillion to UCLA; everybody Dame hockey team last weekend break ten and a half minutes into The outcome seemed certain at does that. They lost at Kentucky, at Maryland, at Pittsburgh in overtime, were bad ones. The Irish went into the first period. Duluth then that point, but no one told the at Marquette, by three points, won at Western Michigan on two last the weekend on a four-game skid, proceeded to add insult to injury, Bulldogs. Joe Nelson and Scott second free throws by Adrian Dantley, won by a single point against St. having dropped two games each to as leading Bulldog pointman Tom Koidahl scored 38 seconds apart, John's inMadisonSquare Garden and lost at DePaul. Michigan State and Michigan Tech Milani opened the scoring on the and suddenly, the Irish found 
In contrast, at home, Notre Dame is 1o-2, having been beaten by onlyhy a combined score of 31-7. Their popower play. A big save by themselves leading only by one. 
number one ranked Indiana and Michigan State in a game that should opponents from Minnesota-Duluth sophomore Dave Bossy 60 seconds Then. at 17:58, Duluth lit the lamp have been played in the football stadium. It's become a well-wornfigured to be inspired after losing later kept the Irish down by only again, but this time, referee phrase, but when the Irish comes to town, everybody's gunning for them. 
l'Onsecutive overtime games to one. That situation was remedied Gordie Lee ruled that Ernie Powell DePaul was. 
<'olorado College, their sixth and by right wing Kevin Nugent at had kicked the puck past Moher. 
"It's tough," said co-captain Dwight Clay. "But we played eleven other seventh overtime losses of the 17:57 when he rebounded a Don This forced Bulldog coach Terry ball games on the road. We should be used to it by now."
Wl'stern Collegiate Hockey Jackson shot past Bulldog Shercliffe to pull Heinz with a little "We've played all over the country and in all kinds of arenas," addedAssociation season. The snake­goaltender Rick Heinz. The teams over a minute remaining, setting Phelps. "We're used to the crowds. You can't make excuses like that thisbittern Bulldogs brought an 8-19-1 left the ice deadlocked at one after up Collier's goal at 19:46. 
far into the season."
l'onference record to the ACC, 20 minutes of play. Saturday, the the Irish slept late. 
"That crackerbox isn't easy to play in," said Dantley. "You could­those t9losses coming by a total of Pirus was again robbed at 11:30 Consequently, the Bulldogs got n'thear at all. But you can't blame a loss on something like that. When25 goals. Any believer in omens of the second period when his unassisted goals from Craig Ar­you lose you have to accept it. You can't go around bad-mouthing the refs would have realized that they were slapshot trickled behind the fallen vidson and Monty Jones and a or criticizing the gym."
due. Heinz and rolled agonizingly power play goal from Newton "Playing at UCLA was a lot worse than playing here (at DePaul) " But apparently, Cqacli Lefty goalward before being cleared by before the Irish began to offer allowed Bill Paterno. "And Kentucky was bad too. You just get to the
Smith's Irish are not a super­the Duluth defense. Indeed, the freshman goaltender John point where the fans don't bother you, though. I can't say the crowd was astitious bunch. for they put Bulldog goaltender frustrated the Peterson any semblence of sup­factor in our losing today." 
together two of their best per­Irish on numerous rushes early in port. Trailing by three entering the Paterno may have underestimated the effects somewhat, because just lormancesof the season against the the second session, but the per­second period, Notre Dame got a as the home fans at the ACC mean about ten points to the Irish, BlueBulldogs, taking a 7-5 decision centages were due to catch up with power play goal from Walsh, his Demon supporters at Alumni Hall helped DePaul. So did the officials. 
l<'riday night. and then rallying for him. and they did, somewhat third of the series, at 19:37, before Luckily for Notre Dame, its last two games are at home, and now botha 4-4 overtime tie Saturday. ironically, in the person of junior defenseman Gord McDonald contests are must-win situations. But even after the loss to DePaulThe final scores, to be sure, were wingman Tim Byers. padded the Duluth lead at 12:48. 
should the Irish win, 18-8 is worth admission price to the NCAA tour~1mportant. for by virtue of the Byers. whose previous point 
But the final twenty minutes saw 

nament.
weekend performances, thelrish production for the season had 
a complete turnabout in the Irish 

clinced a berth in the WCHA amounted to a goal and an assist, style of play. 
ND Sports Slate 
playoffs. But equally as important slapped the puck past Heinz from Les Larson and Pat Conroy worked 
Ft-b. 25 
-was the manner in which the Irish the top of the right faceoff cirlcle at a beautiful give and go at 2:06, BASKETBALL--against Fordham at ACC, at 8:10 p.m.
obtained that berth. Friday's game 11:24 and followed that thirty which resulted in Larson's second Feb. 27-Marchl 
was not really as close as the score seconds later with a-tip-in of a goal of the season. Collier followed SWIMMING--at Detroit <Motor City Invitational) 
would indicate. But for a two­Mark Olive centering pass to give exactly two minutes later, and A Ft-b. 21\minute span late in the third the lrish a 3-1 lead. That marign Pirus slapshot 55 seconds after 
HOCKEY--against Wisconsin at ACC, at 7:30p.m.
period, the Irish totally dominated held until 15:40, when leading that tied the game.
... WRESTLING--at Cincinnati <NCAA Mid-East Regionals)
play, though it took an open net scorer Brian Walsh bQUnced the The seventh place Irish upped March 1goal by freshman Geoff Collier puck off Heinz' right leg from their lead to four points over the BASKETBALL--against Dayton at ACC, at 2 p.m. 
with 14 seconds remaining to in­behind the net for a power play Bulldogs inthe WCHA race over FENCING--against Buffalo, Case Western Reserve Purdue Miami of sure the final outcome. goal. Milani went in alone on 
the weekend, and clinched Ohio at ACC ' ' Saturday, 3349 fans received a Moher and lifted a wrist shot over 
themselves at least an eighth place HOCKEY--against Wisconsin at ACC, at 7:30p.m.rare and wonderful treat. They his right shoulder at 18:40 to make rinish in the final standinll!i. TRACK--at Drake University 



