
by Maureen Flynn distribution of women and ethnic minorities St-nior Staff Reporter across institutions and not merely with the aggregate success of job search activities." f'aculty members reacted this weekend to "If persuasive lobbyists were able to University Provost Fr. James T. Burt­convince policy makers to liik at relativelychaell's testimony before the Department of meaningless aggregate figures," Stewart Labor Fact-Finding Hearing on Contract stated, "then those institutions with a Compliance by Institutions of Higher smaller degree of 'social responsibility'Education. would be able to shift compliance costs to 
In his testimony Wednesday, Burtchaell the socially responsible." criticized affirmative action procedures for Stewart added, "It is not clear as to who is the hiring of women and minorities as often to be included in the category 'available' unreasonable. women and members of minority groups." 
Citing a recent Carnegie Council study, He noted that a currently employed in­Burtchaell said "there is no significant dividual is not necessarily unavailable. "If supply of qualified women or ethnic any of the 'employed' minorities and women minorities unsuccessfully seeking ap­are in fact 'underemployed' in their current pointments at cqlleges and universities." positions," Stewart stated, "the content of 
..At present," Burtchaell stated, "we do 'available' is also questionnable." not have a problem of equal employment In his testimony at the hearing Wed­opportunity so much as one of availability." nesday, Burtchaell urged the federal 
government to "put its dollars where itsMislt-ading Ht-ports executive orders are" by funding special 
In a letter addressed to Burtchaell, fellowships, restricted to women and Professor .James B. Stewart, director of the minorities, on the undergraduate and Black Studies Program, noted that "a graduate levels. central concern of Affirmative Action if the "Government provisioning of 
Four students named 
Councilsets members 
by John Chestnut matters relating to academics at Notre 
Staff Ht-porter Dame and is the final interpretor of all academic decisions." said Gassman, Academic Commissioner. 
The Screening Committee for the The Council meets at least once a semes­Academic Council appointed four new ter in a closed session chaired by Fr. members for the 1975-76 academic year, last Hesburgh, president of the University .. At 
Friday. thesesessions an agenda is brought forth, 
The new members are, Joseph Fiorella, a discusses and voted upon. Decisions junior, College of Arts and Letters, Robert required simple majority vote, and Panof£. a junior, College of Science, and Bill .Hesburgh has the power to veto. A petition 
Bula. a senior. College of Engineering. of 10 members is needed to be placed a topic 
l<:ach college selected three candidates the on the agenda. from the applications received. Each This year. according to the academic candidate was interviewed by the Academic commissioner, the Council will discuss 
Council's Screening Committee composed student representation to the council. At of Fr. Lawley, Ed Byrne, Stan Cardenas, , present there are only seven students on the Wendy Duffy, Auggie Grace, and Mike council of 70. 
(;assman. The Academic Council will Other topics to be discussed are the honor ('onvcne for its first meeting of the year code, the student-teacher ratio in the 
sonw tinll' this month. College of . Business Administration, The Council is made up of 70 members academic credit for participation in including the University's president, vice­publications and radio stations, and the prl'sident. provost, and assistant provost, sophomore curriculum in the College of nwmhers of the faculty, department heads, Science. 
and seven members of the student body. In previous uears the council has dealt Four undergraduated, the academic with topics ranging from the academic commissioner, and representatives from ealender to the tenure of teachers. Last year the Council was instrumental in
the Graduate, Law and MBA schools make returning the University to a post-Laborup the student representation. 
Day opening date, increasing the flexibility "'The Academic Council is a strong voice 
in the freshman curriculum, and benefitsin the academic lives of the students here at for part -time faculty.
Notre Dame. The Council deals with all 
CIA death plots exposed 
WASHINGTON (AP> -There were both Pike, who heads the House Intelligence plots and attempts to kill Cuban Premier committee, had noted that the CIA erred in Fidel Castro by the Central Intelligence its prediction there would be no Middle East Agency over the span of three presidencies, war in 1973. the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Colby responded that the agency did make committee said Sunday. a mistake in that case, but noted that the 
Appearing on ABC's "Issues and An­CIA doesn't operate a crystal ball. swers," Sen. Framk Church, <D-Idahol, Colby called for responsibility in the in­said the plots and actual attempts on Castro vestigations of the CIA, saying that there stretched from the administration of Dwight must be a decision "between sensation and Eisenhower through that of Lyndon B. safety, between publicity and_protection." Johnson, including President John F. Kennedy. But Church said his committee Asked about covert operations on his has no hard evidence that the three broadcast appearance, Colby said the presidents were aware of the attempts. agency is in complaince with the law passes 
Earlier, CIA Director William. E. Colby last year requiring that actions beyond said that when Rep. Otis Pike, <0-N.Y.,l intelligence gathering be approved by the challenged the agency to cite one time it had president and reported to six congressional warned the nation of possible attack, he had committees. forgotten the Cuban Missile crisis. Colby was also asked about reports of 
Colby, appearing on CBS' "Face the previous agency plans to assissinate foreign Nation," repeated his disagreement with leaders but he declined to discuss this the statement by Pike last week that the beyond saying that he had turned down intelligence community would not be able to such proposals and had issued a directive warn the nation of impending attack that such practices would not be supported becausE: the information would not get or condoned. passed through the upper levels. He praised the Senate panel investigating 
That is the reason the CIA was created, his agency for its security with classified Colby said, to coordinate the information material and said a compromise had been collected by various agencies and to fit reached with the House committee on together the pieces of the puzzle. similar items. 
fellowships," Stewart commented, "Is not·~· 
necessarily an improvement if you treat ':i Notre Dame's own experience with the Afro-American Fellowship Programs as relevant 

If[
data." 
. "Monetary commitments," Stewart continued, "will not produce results in the absence of strong supporting activities from within the institution." 
"Again," Stewart said, "the socially unresponsible would be able to shift training costs to the socially responsible by main­taining an environment where racist and sexist activities continue discouraging potential matriculants." 
The reporting procedures of the Af­firmative Action Program, Stewart noted, "serve to ferret out conditions which ... produce a revolving door syndrome, whether these conditions eminate from entry level barriers or from more indirect means of discouraging lengthy associations with particular institutions ... " 
As examples, Stewart cited "strategies like delay, which would allow the adept Administrator to show significant recruiting activity without actual hiring." The can­didate. Stewart said, "would be forced to accept offers from institutions which process applications more rapidly." 
Visiting professorships and one year contracts encourate turn-over of women and minority faculty members, Stewart noted._ 
Women Faculty at Universities 
Professor Carole Moore, chairperson of a~.
III!IM•,...-­faculty committee on women's affairs, also named turn-over among women and Burtchaell minorities as a major problem. Moore, who "but it's not just the money. Why should a
heads the committee of the American woman stay where every day is an uphillAssociation of University Professors battle to justify her existence as an<AAUPl, noted that the number of female educated woman?"
faculty members at Notre Dame has "A woman is more likely to go to a largerdropped for the past two years. 
urban campus, where she can find more"We have more women in the tenure em_otional and professional support," Moore track," Moore stated, "but we have fewer 
sat d. 
warm bodies in the classroom, serving as 
"Notre Dame must create a more sup­role models." 
portive atmosphere of acceptance andThe comparatively low salary scale at 
(continued on page 3)
Notre Dame is partly to blame, Moore said, 
Hesburgh seeks amnesty study for Rights Center 
by Hobert Jacques 
ts located on the campus in the Law
!-.'taff Heporter 
Building. Donald Kommers, newly appoint­l'd director of the Center, said he would The amnesty study which Fr. Theodore welcome such a study. He stated, "It would 
M. Hesburgh, University president, add an international dimension and human 
recently called for <Observer, Sept. 22) is focus outside of the U.S. beyond civil rights still not definite. 
concern for ethnic minorities in this According to Hesburgh who will travel to country." 
Washington, D.C. next week, the He added that, even though the study and documents and papers from the recently its nature are still indefinite at this time, dissolved amnesty board, upon which the study would be placed on the agenda for Hesburgh served, along with funding from the board meeting this Thursday and given the Ford Foundation will probably be 'consideration. 
granted to Notre Dame. Once the more that 1,000,000 pages of The study will be conducted under the papers are received, they will be auspices of the Center for Civil Rights which microfilmed, organized, and indexed in a 
computer retriever. This will be done under the direction of Bill Balentine, an in­formation analyst for the Center. 
The process by which this task will be accomplished was developed at the Center for Civil Rights to handle the 1,000,ooopages of documents which Hesburgh accumulated during his seventeen-year association with the US Commission on Civil Rights. Hesburgh donated his papers to the Center when he left the board. 
The system is called "Civil Rights Int­eractive Specification .Information System"< CRISIS l. Its development started in 1974 when funds were donated by the CBS Foundation and the Ford Foundation, the latter also bequeath in the establishing grant to the Center in 1973. 
CRISIS allows a researcher to determine through a terminal, which works on the English language, the availibility of in­formation win the CRISIS lib~ary which is located in the Law Building. 
According to Valentine, one major reason for the University receivin~thepapers is the CRISIS. 
Valentine estimated a required length of one year to enter all of the million pages into the CRISIS from the time they are received. He noted that this would be accomplished t­hrough the work of one full-time specialist and two part-time student assistants. 


the observer Monday, October 8, 1975
2 
warld br.iefs 
CHICAGO <AP> -Police said Sunday the mentally retarded sister of Sen. Edward Kennedy was missing after attending a morning church service with Eunice Shriver, wife of Democratic presidential candidate Sargent Shriver. 
• Police said Rosemary Kennedy, 55, apparently wandered off aft­er the service at a downtown church. It was not kno~ '1 i r.mediately why Mrs. Shriver, who was not missing, was in Chkac;o. 
MADRID, Spain <AP) -A remote controlled boiT'h blew up a Civil Guard jeep Sunday in the Basque country of •·~ .-~"~rn Spain, killing three guardsmen and wounding two, authorities reported Sunday. 
The blast twisted the jeep through the air and hurled it 20 yards. Policemen aged 20, 25 and 27 died instantly, and two others, aged 27 and 29, were gravely injured, the Guard said. 
The ambush was believed to have been the work of Basque separatist guerrillas taking revenge for the execution of two comrades executed eight days ago. 
MUNICH, West Germany <AP> -What is called the world's biggest beer~rinking festival, the 16~ay Munich Oktoberfest, ended Sunday with record consumption figures rep6rted. 
A total of 4.5 million steins of beer-containing about two pints each-were downed, accompanied by 600,000 fried chickens, 800,000 pork sausages, 42 barbecued steers, 28 deer and 35 boars. 
Mayor Georg Krona witter estimated the trade value of the 141st fest at $80 million. 
an campus taday 
9:00 am-5:00 pm-,volunteer program, peace corps and vista representatives provide Information and applications in the library lobby, sponsored by placement bureau. 
3:30 pm--seminar, "measurement of residual stress by x-ray diffraction"by paul prevey, research engineer, metcut research assoc., inc., cincinatti, ohio rm 5, engineering building, sponsored by dept. of metallurgical engineering & materials science. 
4:30 pm--peter c reilly 1ecture series. "retent studies of the properties and~ synthetic use of enol ate anions" by dr herbert house, dept. of chemistry, georgia Institute of technology, atlanta ga. room 123 nieuwland science hall sponsored by the chemistry dept. 
7 pm--speed chess tournament, Rm 227 math and comp center. 
'I I 
Kreisky wins new term as Austrian chancellor 
-
K.C. lireznen S strike continues 
.. ­
KANSAS CITY <AP) -Arson volved in six fires in abandoned There have been no serious and sabotage reports continued buildings," City Fire Director fires and no lose of life in fires Sunday in the third day of a Frank Spink said of the fires since the strike by more than bitter strike here by firemen Saturday night and Sunday 800 city fire fighters began Fri­seeking pay parity with police. morning. "They were in unusu­day. 
"---.there were strong in­al locations and under unusual 
dications that arson was in-circumstances." Spink said only 22 fire calls Police Chief Joseph were answered Saturday night
Shuttle studied McNamara said he was organ­and Sunday morning, compared izing the department to fight with more than 50 the night be­arson. He said many fires were fore.
by Ombudsman set deliberately ... "not random Once an hour, police radios acts, but well-planned arsons, broadcast, "Police personnel committed by people knowl­are reminded that the state Jaw
by Phil Cackley 
edgeable about fires." of Missouri and the depart­Starr Reporter ment's firearm policy both per­Spokesmen for city manage-mit the use of a firearm to pre­
The Ombudsman is conducting a ment and the firefighters' union vent an act of arson or to ap­study to determine if the times or both said Sunday no further ne­prehend an arsonist. .. " routlng of the shuttle bus service gotiations were scheduled. can be improved, according ·to Mayor Charles B. Wheeler Leaders of striking Local No. Melanie Connell, chairperson of Jr. said if the illegal strike con-42 of the International Associ­Special Projects and Services for tinues the city will lay off the ation of Fire Fighters said fire­the Ombudsman. striking firemen and hire new llH'n were not responsible for 
The study began over the past ones. He said there were arson or sa.botage. weekend and will continue during "'gradual plans" under way "There is no evidence than the week. The Ombudsman is that would be implemented any member of Local No. 42 focusing on whether or not the bus "very quickly," saying the city had anything to do • with the is on schedule, and whether girls would hire from a backlog of fires," said Charles Shafer, an are walking across campus and to applicants, train the recruits attorney for the union. St. Mary's after the last bus run. and make them regular fire-Joe McMahon, an inter-
Following the completion of the men. national vice president of the study later this week, the Om-Police said two booby-trapped union, said Mayor Wheeler budsman will analyze its findings fire extinguishers were dis-"made a clown out of himself and present them to Br. Just covered filled with diesel fuel ... by accusing the fire fighters Paczesny, vice president of and there were reports of fire of arson and sabotage. This is a Student Affairs, and James trucks found with water in their cheap shot being aimed at the Roemer, dean of students. "If we gas tanks. fire fighters." 
find an~thing lacking, we'~l make-----------------.,
suggeshons to them," sa1d Con­nell. PEAC -I
"We have had complaints from H TREE students," Connell explained. • • 
1 
"The major problem is that the DINING ROOM schedule for the bus isn't posted. RANDALL' I 
There is one in the back of the preliminary directory, but thel UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT I
times aren't specific." Theshuttlebusschedule,located.. TUESDAY NIGHT SPECIAL I on the second to last page of th€ SPAGHETTI AND · 
directory, lists the times during I MEATBALLS & SALAD I academic hours <8:05a.m. to 5:3C p.m.) when the buses run and 1 make stops. However, for after ALL YOU CAN EAT 5:30p.m., the schedule lists only I 
$l 95
when the buses are running, but ... • · 
does not list when they make stops. .......
VIENNA, Austria <AP) cast a gloomy economic future Connell said the general times
Chancellor Bruno Kreisky's So-and maintained only the coop­given for non-academic hourscialist party triumped in the eration of all could solve the means students wishing to use theAustrian elections Sunday, win-problems ahead. 
bus don't know how long they arening an absolute majority of 94 He promised to invite Social­going to have to wait for the bus.
seats in the 183-seat parlia-ists and members of the small A major objective of the effort by
ment. according to preliminary Freedom party to cooperate in the Ombudsman will probably bereturns announced by the Inte-the government if his party to get the Administration torior Ministry. should come out on top. 
establish a regular time-table forWith 90 per cent of the vote Kreisky has said he would the buses during non-academiccounted, the Christian Demo-rather step down as party chief .hours and to make a schedule ofcrat Austrian People's party than form a coalition with the these hours available, Connellwas predicted to win between People's party. But he repeat-stated. She mentioned no apparent78 and 80 seats, and the Austri-edly indicated he would not ob­problems with the routing of thean Freedom party 10 or 11. ject to a coalition with the 
bus.
Four years ago the Socialists f<'reedom party. 
"It has not yet been determinedwon 93 seats, one seat more Seen as an obstacle to the So­if the Sept. 16 attack on a St.
than the absolute majority of cialists' continuing their abso­Mary's student, reported in last92, which enabled it to form a lute majority was a redistribu­Monday's Observer, has increased government without coaliton lion of electoral districts which the use of the shuttle bus," Connell help from any other party. The shifted four seats from the pre­
added.
People's party had won 80 seats dominantly Socialist east to the in 1971 and the Freedom party western part of the country, 
The Observer is published Monday 
through Friday and weekly during
10. where the People's party is 
the summer session, except during
The People's party under for-stronger. 
exams and vacation periods. The 
mer banker Josef Taus 42 had In the outgoing parliament, 
Observer is published by the 
'tudents of the Univ. of Not.-esought to recapture the' poiitical elected in 1971, the Socialists 
Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions rl141Y be purchased 
dominance it held from 1945 to ~held 93 seats, the People's par­
1970, when it. yielded control to . ty 80 and the Freedom party 
tor 10 dollars per semester ( 18 
a minority Socialist govern-10. 
dollars per year) from The Db·
ment. The Freedom party, Jed for 
server, Box Q, Notre Dame, In· 
Unlike some of its European 17 years by Friedrich Peter, 
diana, 46556. Second Class postage 
paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556.
neighbors, Austria has been was expected to benefit most if able so far to maintain prac-neither of the major parties tically full employment. In a reached an absolute majority. work force of 2.6 million, only Coalition with either party :16,000 are jobless. would automatically make Pe-
Throughout the campaign the ter vice chancellor, boost the Socialists have taken a more prestige of his party and im­optimistic economic view than prove its chances in future the People's party. Taus fore-elections . 

TONIGHT: DOORS OPEN AT 6:45 JAMES BOND 007"". 
"THE MAN WITH COLOR THE GOLDEN GUN" ~:.:~~~ 
CO-FF;ATU~E 
in IAN FLEMING'S ~ I
I..LIVE AND LETDJ·E·· 
MON. ONLY-ALL SEATS $1 
with student I.D 
. 4FT. T.V. SCREEN
r'GOLDEN GUN" ~ 9:05 "LIVE" -7:05 
L
~~~-~~ 

Monday, October 8, 1975 the observer 
Opposition voiced to hiring policy report 
(continued from page 1) respect," Moore cominued, "if it's going to hold women faculty." 
Another factor in the declining number of female faculty mem­bers, said Moore, is the lack of opportunity for advancement. 
"We have only two tenured women on the faculty," she noted, "and they are both in the same department. We do not have even one full professor on the teaching and research faculty who is a female." 
Moore termed recruitment policies in regard to women and minorities "inconsistent." "Some departments," she stated, "have made very good efforts. Other departments have not been straightforward about recruiting. There are still some remnants of the old 'buddy system' operating." 
Moore suggested that recruiting efforts might be made more ef­fective if (lepartments "limited the number of women and minority candidated· for consideration by focusing on the ones they have a good chance of getting." 
Moore acknowledged the discreoancv between the number 
Darby's celebrates first ann1• versary 
Darby's Place will celebrate its first anniversary on Tuesday night. The late night gathering place, under the supervision of Fr. l{obert Griffin has operated in the basement of Lafortune for the past vear. · Griffin outlined the plans for Till'sday night's celebration. At 11 
p.m. there will be a Mass at the (;rotto in honor of the feast of Our Lady of the Rosary. The mass will he celebrated by Griffin and the Wee Club will be present to provide musical accompaniment. 
After the Mass, a party will be held in Lafortune. "We'll have a birthday cake and maybe we'll be able to persuade the Glee Club to come over," Griffin said. 
After a year of operation, at­tendance at Darby's Place is still good. However, Tom Daly, manager of Darby's, noted that "We're running slightly in the red, hut we're backed by Student Government so there are no real problems." 
Daly also stated that special events such as the Thanksgiving Day party and the 5 o'clock break­fast would be continued again this 
year. 
ND Ar.mory Dance dee.med successful 
Hy .Jol' Gill Starr Heporter 
The Armory Dance held Friday night was termed successful by Student Body President Ed Byrne and Social Commission Chairman Charles Moran. 
"Police officers said that it was the best one that they've ever seen in comparison to recent years," said Byrne. 
The dance was held for the first time in two years at the South Bend Armory. The event was attended by !150 students, and there was little or no damage done, ac­cording to Byrne. 
One student commented that the dance was "really good, in that no one got very belligerent due to drinking." There were few beer fights, and those that did occur wt-re "limited to small groups of fri£'nds, and weren't intent on being malicious," he said. 
Another student, who was soaked with beer, said he was disgusted with being hit but "there were only about eight kids throwing, and it wasn't even a problem.'' 
Many who attended said the beer lines were too long, but Ed Byrne replied, "We were supposed to have nine taps for our forty kegs, but only five were found." 
Moran said, "I think this is a good example to the Ad­ministration of the ability of students to handle themselves where alcohol is being served." 
Byrne agreed, saying it will "strengthen our position with the Indiana State Legislature when we approach them about lowering the drinking age, and it should help our ··fforts to have larger parties on campus." 
fAT 
WA lilY II S 
HAPPY HOUR DAILY 4 -7 
Free cheese and crackers 
Monday  -Football Night  
GIANT 7' SCREEN  
Tuesday  -Free Movies 9:00  

Wednesday -Ladies' Night (complete disco format) 
SATURDAY FOOTBALL SPECIA 
open at 9:00 a.m. Large Sausage Pizza $2.88 
carry out 277-0570 
2046 South Bend Ave. 
of qualified women and minority women and minority members to members and the totall goals of work for those extra degrees."American colleges and univer­
"Let's not concentrate on the sities. symptom," Moore said, "The important question, "Let's look at the reason for the though, is not whether there is a problem. In the past women and discrepancy, but why," Moore minorities have not· received the stated. "There is a shortage emotional and financial support to because universities and society make it worthwhile for them to as a whole have not encouraged obtain the necessary 
Frosh council appointed 
The newly-appointed Freshman t Dillon; Ellen Greek, Farley; Advisory Council will examine the · Larry Gant, Fisher; Peter Arndt, Freshman Academic Guide as its Flanner; David Leibowitz, Grace; first project, according to Emil T. Paul Lipari, Holy Cross, and Hofman, dean of the Freshman Stephen Rodgers, Howard. Year of Studies. 
Also on the council are TomThe council will consider Moore, Keenan; Candy Thompson, problems freshmen had in Lewis; Sharon Prindiville, Lyons; choosing courses from the guide. 
James Moran, Morrissey; MichaelHofman will take appropriate 
Clancy, Pangborn; Robert
steps to eliminate such difficulties, 
Rasmus, St. Edward's; Chris
he said. . J'
Servmg on the counc11 are 1m Buscaglia, Sorin; Michael Pierret, Martin, Alumni; Kristin Quann, 
Stanford; Kathleen Rosenthal, Breen-Phillips; Joseph Viviano, 
Walsh; Paul Jeselnick, Zahm, and ('a.yana h; Timothy Beaty, Hanvinder Rai, off-campus. 
IMPORTANT!! 
Mail Proofs Back to Delma Studios Immediately !! 
qualifications.'' 
Even so, Moore stated, universities have been "too eager to hide this argument of a shortage because they do not want to see no need to conform to affirmative action requirements." 
The argument has been used, Moore said, "primarily as a shield. Universities have hidden behind it and raised their standards for 
women and minority faculty." 
"Too many times," Moore stated, "universities have found ways to dodge around the af­firmative action regulations. Government pressure is needed to make sure that they conform to the law."
i,....................,..........·-·······-·-··-. 
I 
Your dentist saves your teeth. 
Hemayalsosave your life. 
See your dentist regu­larly. It may save your life. Cancer of the mouth 
\ 
kills about 8,000 Amer­icans each year who might have been saved through early detection and treatment. So see your dentist for a com­plete oral checkup reg­ularly.
I:~:::!:~:d 
1
'tll•···········-···························-···..1 
•
• 

Like most things, the cost of attending medical school has risen sharply over the last decade. To many medical students that cost repre­sents a heavy . burden, a financial ' problem that can affect your con­centration. 
It needn't be that way. The Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program was originated to free you from those worries. Men and women who qualify will have the costs of their medical educa­tion covered and will also receive a substantial monthly allowance. 
The program offers more than tuition and salary: it offers you the 
•·pportuni1y to begin your practice under very frworable conditions. As a health care officer in the military branch of your choice, you'll find yourself with responsibilities fully in keeping with your training, and with the time and opportuni1y to observe a full spectrum of medical specialties. 
When you decide on the specially you wish to pursue, you may find yourself taking those graduate medical studies at one of our many large and modern medical centers. If so, you can count on that training being second to none. Both the clinical and research work being done in them have made Army, Navy and Air Force hospitals a major new national medical resource. 
It's a long road, but the first step is simple. Just send in the coupon. The details we send you may make the whole way a little smoother. 
"AN INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF DISEASE" PUBLISHED BY LEA & fEBIGER-PHILADELPHIA 
Armed Forces Health Care DEDICATED TO HEALTH CARE AND THE PEOPLE WHO PRACTICE IT 
,------------------,
I ~;;'~g:~;cesScholarships Z-CN-'105 1 
I Peo11a.IL 61614 I 1 Yes. I am interested In Armed Forces Health Professions I 
Scholarship opporlumhes I understand I here Is no obligation. II I am especially interested 1n I I D Army D Navy 0 Air force 
1 D Physician D Denial D Podralry' D Optometry II 0 Veterinary' 0 Psychology (~D)' I 
J Nome SexDM Of J 
I foddrP.ss (Pieose Pflnt) Phone I 
I I
I CriV Slale lp I 
1 Social Secu11!y • 
I 
I Enrollment at (School) I 

I I
To graduate in Degree.______ 1 (monlh. year) I 
'Vele,lnal)' and Podta1rv not avatlab\e \n Navy Program: Podiatry and Psychology not ava•lable tn Army Program 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
~~~Qt2,~rver 
Founded November 3, 1966 
Terry Keeney  Editor-in-chief  
Tom Modglin  Business Manager  
Tom Whelan  Advertising Manager  

EDrTORIAL BOAR.P AI Rutherford, Managing Ed1tor; -!l_m Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editoria_l Editor; Ken Girouard, News Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Ed1tor; Ken Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; Tom O'Neil, Features Editor; C:hris Smith, Photo Editor 
Edito•i~lo: 181-8661 News: 281-1715 Bu•ineu: 281-7471 
~--------~-------------­
~onday, October 8, 1975 

P.O. Box Q 
........................... ................................................................... ...... .............
~ ~ ~ embodied in your testimony, given 'cann~t , cope· With capital felons, the University's stated salary let's lock them up for good, con-
Affirmative policy. serving our safety and their labor. The alternative that yousuggest Dead men not only do to Affirmative Action guidelines, not tell any tales; they also rarely Action i.e., government provision of bring writs of habeas corpus to fellowships, .is not necessarily an contest faulty convictions. . , lkar Editor: improvement if you treat Notre One of the reasons for Mame s The following letter has been sent Dame's own experience with the repeal of the death penalty was the to l<'r. Burtchaell: Afro-American Fellowship discovery that an innocent man Programs as relevant data. My had been executed. Last Friday, Dear Fr. Burtchaell1: interpretation, of this experience is two black men who spent eight I am writing to respond to the that monetary commitments will years on death row in Florida were comments attributed to you in the not produce results in the absence freed by Governor Askew. Another 
sibility, of course, belongs with theOctober 1, 1975 issue of The Ob­of strong supporting activities man, it turns out, committed the student body: the responsibility tosernr in the article entitled from within the institution. ... crime for which the blacks were to 
Drumstick 
show a little more respect for o­"Burtchaell Attacks Affirmative In conclusion, I think that a die. 
thers and let the barbarian
Action.'' useful perspective is obtained minority know that no 'one elseThere are alternative and when the core of your testimony is Hitler and Stalin had "laws" 
Gratitude 
respects such behavior." It was aequally reasonable interpretations compared with your recent sermon providing for the death penalty nice gesture but ludicrous.
concerning the usefulness of Af­which has been widely interpreted just as the Little Judge has his Dear Editor: In the same breath <and page)firmative Action in the presence of as an attack on sex discrimination, "law down in Montgomery. "Under Te Obst'rvt'r allows another cheap data purporting to slhow that (which, incidentally, I noted was Hitler's law the practice was that a We're writing to express our shot leveled against the St. Mary's"there is no significant supply of edited where you commented on Jew who murdered a German was gratitude to the earnest group of students. The lack of respect nowqualified, women or ethnic the analogy to Affirmative Ac­sports (? l enthusiasts who've
tlxecuted,but not vice-versa. All 
falls on you, Observer Editorialminorities unsuccessfully seeking tion). In particular, it appears that foo often the practice in this shown such concern over our 
Bu~. ~ 
a
appointments at coll<eges and if lobbying attempts to exempt country· has been that a black or ability to pick out suitable You state that "all letters areuniversities." Clearly, the manner Universities from Affirmative poor man who murdered a wealthy mascot. As is well known, we subject to editing for length andin which Affirmative Action data is Action guidelines fail, the white was put to death, but not flighty "girls" have faced this taste ... " Who is in charge of your 
decision for unifying our "espirit de corps" under a suitable blazoncollected would support the con­distribution of employment gains vice-versa. 
taste department? This exampleclusion that a central concern of between "ethnic"minorities and It was precisely this fact that with some trepidation but a lot of of poor taste has been printedAffirmative Action is the women at Notre Dame can be prompted the Furman decision, healthy enthusiasm. before. Remember "Woman in thedistribution of women and ethnic easily predicted. which declared such capricious For perhaps the first time we at Eyes of a Chemist?". Or "Cattleminorities across institutions and 
use of the death penalty to be 
SMC have an opportunity to for the Cows?".
not merely with the aggregate James 8. Stewart unconsitutional. Millions of breathe some of the phenomenal I believe an apology is in ordersuccess of job search activities. Black Studies Director legislative dollars later, a new life and spirit of Notre Dame into for the St. Mary's student body!
This concern applies sanctions crop death bills has been sown for the budding but promising teams Also, I believe the practice ofto strategies like delay which another ,grim harvest. we have here. All the odds are in unsigned letters should cease. Nowould allow the adept Ad­our favor, a new president, new one should be able to hide behind a
Capital
ministrator to show significant No doubt some peoplfl really do facilities and the beneficial sup­shield of anonymity.
recruiting activity without actual believe in capital punishment port of our ND neighbors who are The Observer is to serve the en­hiring because recruits would be "only as a means of preventing drenched in a tradition of good will tire ND-SMC community, not just a
Punishment
forced to accept offers from in­future murders." But there are a and are willing to lend a helping barbarian minority.
stitutions which process ap­whole lot of people like the Little hand. plications more rapidly. Dear Editor: Judge who believe there are just Headed by the inspmng 
John A. JagielskiAnother critical thrust of Af­Recently Mr. Brian Clancy some bad folks who ought to be figurehead of that "maligned 
firmative Action's turnover rates native American bird," the turkey, 
wrote to you in seeming support of ·gotten out of our hair and we cannot but impress our op-
within institutions, and the a capital punishment law signed by destroyed. reporting procedures serve to Governor Wallace of Alabama. ponents with our strength, our 1
Secur,·ty s 
campus visitors with our worth, .
ferret out conditions which either Concerning criticism of this bill', Those who cling to the false and the student body with pride in
covertly or overtly produce a Mr. Clancvsaidthere seems to be a security blanket of the death revolving door syndrome whether "liberal philosophy"which '"At all penalty ought to know their true being appreciated fo~ ~hat we are. Respons ,.b,.l,·ty
We know we are ]omed by ourthese conditions emanate times slants the views of con" bedfellows: They are those who "Fighting Irish" in helping us to .
from entry IIevel barriers or from servatives, so as to make them espoused the same theory of pick as appropriate a name for more indirect_ means of appear unattractiv~." Continuing, lebensunwertes Leben in an earlier ourselves as they have for Dt>ar Editot·:discouraging lengthy associations Clancy clDimed "People such ~ day. . 
themselves. Sept. 29's Observerwith particular institutions, for myself, who favor capital punish­Clancy continued by saying I only hope that in the future we article ,"SMC student raped on
"For what Fr. Toohey failed to
example, visiting professorships, ment, favor the killing of con­can boast of similar upstanding road," states an unidentified St. one year contracts, etc .... victed murderers only as a means realize, is that in some cir­products of our college as Notre Mary's student was raped while 
Moreover, if any of 'the "em­of preventing future murders. It is cumstances you cannot afford to Dame can of its "Name withheld "walking alone on the road bet­ployed" minorities and women are a proven fact that dead men not give people a second chance." I by request sports committee." ween Notre Dame and St. Mary's." in fact "underemployed" in their only do not tell any tales, but that think Governor Askew knows two The decision is now ours, Saint It goes on to state that the 
current positions, the content of they also do not take any more men who feel differently. And Mary's, as to whether or not to unidentified victim was, "driven 
"available" innocent lives." there is one man in Maine who accept this most suitable of back to St. Mary's by St. Mary's
the term is~ also 
~els nothing. "rallying point," after all, the Security .... " The question that isquestionaable. It is, of course, The destruction of commitee might withdraw its embedded in my mind is ... Where understandable why the Univer­human life is not the only way to "eminently qualified" mascot if was the St. Mary's Security forcesity would choose to adopt the set keep Imurderers from murdering. Bruce P. Bower one or two should choke on a befm·p and after this unfortunate
Birmingham, Ala.
of value judgements apparently If psychiatry in the 20th century 
drumstick. incident? As a student here at St. Mary's, I 
Patt Ruocco was Jed to believe that the St. Lynda Ruocco Mary's Security was here to give Teresa Kerley the students 24-hour protection. 
Mary Janca Such protection includes a Mary Egan safeguard against possible assaults, and rape, is this not true? I feel that if the St. Mary's Security, in conjunction with the Notre Dame Security Department 
Editorial 
would spend their time patrolling down the road linking SMC and ND at a regular interval of fifteen
Taste 
minutes through out the night, the uneasy and eerie possibility of such attacks would be minimized, 
near Editor: 
if not put to an end. Once again, the time for "cheap 
The Security Departments of shots" has arisen. The male 
both schools are here for one population tries to show their purpose--the safety of the students superiority but, instead, it is their here. They are in other words, ignorance which surfaces. obligated to do the best they can to 
Wednesday's editorial correctly insure a safe campus, even if this assigned the recent behavior of the does mean doing a job that would students to actions of barbarians. require a little extra effort, right? It sought a remedy to this bahavior. "The first respon-
Lisa Morel 


Monday, October 8, 1975 
the observer 
jconcertsj 
j geils and faces---hard driuin men 

The combination of the J. Geils Band and the Faces with Rod Stewart demonstrated what a good concert should be --a couple hours of fine music. It seemed that bringing both bands on the same stage might be to hard-drivin' for most diehard rock 'n rollers but, perhaps due to the brevity of their respective sets <the only semi-ripoff of the evening l, no one was left limp, save for maybe Peter Wolfe's legs. I had a brief delusion that the Geils Band would steal the show, but this was simply not the case, due to the familiarity of the Faces material and its consequent well-rendition. 
The bad boys from Boston, as they are known in some sinister journalistic circles, were mighty good. Lead singer, M.C., focal point f'(•ter Wolfe led the band through an hour's worth of energy funk, showmanship, what have you. The husband of Faye 
Dunaway clad in sunglasses and black ht•ret put on his usual show of bad craziness, 
aminatedly around the stage. He filled the interlude with philosophical meanderings; ''first ya gotta get down before you get it up"; threats; "we're gonna blow your face o"!t. habay", and a bit of verse; 
to make it slick the one and only majic Dick Wamnwrjammer, let me here ya! All in the spirit of the evening of course. 
Playing tne warm-up role, the band crammed in a fair number of familiar material in the short span of an hour ... "Wammerjammer" stood out with Majic Dick warbling away on his harp while the band supplied a synchronized boogie back­drop. "Orange Special " was straight blues number which protrayed the band's roots most favorably. 
Also included were the Geils standards 
"Detroit Breakdown," "Lookin' for a 
Love," and an encore of "Give it to Me." 
The band aquiessed to the audiences 
request for more with a second encore, "First I Look at the Purse." 
The only weak part of the show and 
perhaps of J. Geils in general is their 
material. While most of the music provides 
a perfect vehicle for the band on stage, 
songs like "Detroit Breakdown," "Musta 
<:ot Lost," and "South Side Shuffle" aren't 
terribly exciting in their own right. But who 
l'ar·es, ---Geils is in concert and that's 
to move machines and inadvertently to allow the crowd to cool down, ·some questions in my nerves were lit: Could Stewart do it? Out howl Wolfe? Out do the boys from Boston? And the crowd cried a decisive: affirmitive. 
Stewart -Faces entered the stage through a silver entranceway and swaggered down the stairs of the elevated backstage to the tune of "the Stripper." 
a review by patrick small 
After the fanfare had subsided, the band belted through a number of tunes, mostly familiar, all well executed, well driven, well done. 
The most pleasant surprise of the night was the performance of lead guitarist Ron Wood. After his summer stint with the Stones, his status as a Face <indeed, the status of the whole group) was in question. Having seen him with both bands, I hope he stays a Face. His staccato lead lines blended beautifully with the rollicking music and his riffing throught the Faces usual funk was good. It seems the addition of a second guitar player was a wise move, giving Woody more room to move and improve. Aside from the music he seems to 
. have gained a stage presence, a per­sonmality, a self-assuredness that was lacking while he played in the shadow of Keith Richard who plays in the shadow of someone big. He is more than Rod Stewart's guitar player, finally gaining a spotlight of his own. 
As for Hod Stewart; he pranced where Peter Wolfe danced,. Dressed in black and white stripes which set off his frosted hair 
' nicely, he spent the evening flinging the microphone stand through the air while flitting about the stage. Oh yes, he did sing a few tunes. Very nicely, thank you. His voice was pitched a might higher than usual but not so raspy and the result was quite pleasant. 
There were really no surprises as the band playes the standard Stewart -Faces fare with much success. It seemed a bit like Sam Cooke night as the group included a medley of "Bring it on Home to Me" and "You Send Me as " AS WELL AS THE "Twisting the Night Away" finale. 
One interesting element of the per­formance was the appearance of a 12­member string section, featured the Cooke medley and on Hendrix's "Anger". While the results were debatable, the orchestra did not detract from the music and the visual contrast of the rather formal en­tourage in the backdrop of the band was interesting. 
Naturally, the night would have been incomplete without "Losin You," "Maggie Mae" <done as tastefully electric as possible, sans mandolin)' "Memphis," and "Stay with Me." The playing was par­
ticularly precise, most notably Woody, Ian • 
McGlagen with his brilliant piano fills, and Kenny Jones on overall thumping per­cussion and on an extended solo on "Losing You," which did not, as rock drum solos often do, to the ears. 

The only complamt I could register, and this more a matter of principle, was the length of the show. The faces played for approximately an hour and 20 minutes at most and, although the audience was responsive throughout, there was no encore to be found. There should have been. But then again, Rod did mention several times that he would be appearing in Chicago in the latter part of this month. Perhaps he shall encore there. 
But no matter. When the lights came on and the curtain fell down and a Rod Steward record was playing brazenly in the af­termath, I felt satiated. I can't recall anything that was omitted and Rod probably hasn't sung "Reason to Believe" for a few years anyway. 
In concluding, it is worth noting that a certain Mike Henderson <I am told that's his name) had the dubious distinction of playing to people in search of their seats. I got to the concert a little late and he was off at ten minutes of eight He doubled on guitar and piano and played a few pretty tunes. Here's listening to you, kid. 
--=-t=--=h~e~o~b=s-.::e:...:r~v.:....e.::._:_r_____M-'-o_nd'-'a__,_,y, October a, 1975 
Watergate lees over two million 
Another defendant convicted in the cover-up trial, former Atty. Gen. John N. Mitchell, probably had legal expenses about equal to Haldeman's. 
Mitchell also was a defend­ant, along with former Com­merce Secretary Maurice H. Stans, in a New York trial in­volving an allegedly illegal campaign contribution from fugitive financier Robert Vesco. Both Mitchell and Stans were found innocent and submitted their legal bills to the trustees of the money remaining in the Nixon campaign fund. 
Stans' bill amounted to $381,­692. 
' 
the observer 
Night Editor: Tim O'Reiley 
Asst. Night Editor: Martha 
Fanning 
Layout Staff: Drop in anytime 
Day Editor: Brian Clancy 
Copy Reader: Mr. Jack 
D'Aurora 
Editorials: Jim Eder 
Features: Greg Bangs 
Sports: Ernie Torriero, Bill 
Brink Typists: Hank Van Dyke, 
Marie McCarthy, Karen 
Chiames, Candy, Terri Harlan 
WASHINGTON <AP) -The 
major Watergate trials are long 
over but the legal fees are still 
going up .as the defendants 
battle to reverse their con­
victions. 
In most cases, defense law­
yers refuse to say what they 
charged the Water~~ate defend­
ants. But information from the 
few available records as well 
as from knowledegabll! sources 
puts the total current figure at 
more than $2 million. 
In addition, salaries for law­
yers in the special! Watergate 
prosecutor's office since it was 
established in May 1973, have 
InPIRG 
by Sue Carey Staff Repo•·ter 
Notre Dame InPIRG has begun working on a survey of grocery prices in the South Bend area, according to Chairperson Lisa Molidor. 
The survey is planned in con­junction with InPIRG groups at Indiana University at South Bend and st. Mary's. "It should be bet­ter than last year's study," she 
J~ 
d
PfOCeeds J~or ogs 
by Dave Reno 
Staff Rt'porter Project Head Start, which Jrepares disadvantaged 
oungsters to enter grade school, 1as scheduled an orientation neeting for Tuesday night, in La 
•'ortune Student Center at 7:00 l.m. 
Prof. Carroll W. Tageson, 'lssociate professor of Graduate Studies in Education, will be the main speaker. 
Mrs. Lucy McCullough, 
Volunteer Coordinator, and 'hairman Michael Faley stress he importance of this meeting. 
¢ IIIIIIIIIWC 11fi 
totaled about $3 million. Both figures still are going up.
With appeals yet to be ar­gued, Atty. Gen. Edward H. Levi has announced his in­tention to keep the prosecutor's office open with a reduced staff numbering not more than 15 people, including lawyers and secretaries. This is about 10 per cent of the size of the staff at the peak of its investigations. 
For the defendants, if their appeals go all the way to the Supreme ·court, their bills are likely to increase at least an­other $100,000 each. 
Legal defense funds set up to 
help former White House aides attorney who headed the Eh­
H.R. Haldeman and John 1D. rlichman defense fund, refused Ehrlichman paid only a frac­to say how much was collected tion of their huge legal bills. but he indicated it fell far short 
Ehrlichman, who was chief of the total bill. domestic adviser to former Haldeman, Nixon's chief of President Richard M. Nixon, staff, was defended in the cov­stood trial and was convicted in er-up trial by John J. Wilson, a both the White House Plumbers veteran Washington trial attor­and the Watergate cover-up ney whose services come high. cases. He has appealed both Most estimates put the bill to convictions. Haldeman at close to $400,000. 
Sources familiar with the Eh­He has appealed his conviction rlichman defense headed by in the cover-up trial. Miami attorney William S. Z. Wayne Griffin, of Los An­Frates said the former Nixon geles, a retired film producer, aide currently has legal ex­said the fund-raising effort he penses that top $500,000. headed for Haldeman collected 
David J. Williams, a Seattle "nowhere near" $400,000. 
survey1ng grocery pr1ces 
noted. "We have better people price~ a~~ inf?rmati~n on utility mission, according to Molider. "It working on the computers, and it deposits, Mohdor sa1d. . deals with certain guidelines for will be more complete." An?ther_ InPIR0. groupp IS utility companies in regards to 
The group is also conducting a wor~I~g with the Citizens Ener~y such issues as shutting power for study of checking account services C:?ahtwn. an offshoot otl~PIRG: . unpaid bills, and discrepancies in 
at South Bend banks which should be finished by the end of this week. The results will eventually be part of a Consumer Guide Handbook to be completed by the end of this year. 
"!twill he a relatively permanent guide to such things as grocery InPIRG dealt heavily With amounts of utility deposits fromp 
utilities tast ye_ar," Molidor saio. poorer neighborhoods to wealthier "We found the Issue. was too large, ones," she noted. though, so a special group was The Notre Dame InPIRG 
formed just to deal with it." 
group is planning to conduct an in­Last y~ar's utility probe l~t to depth survey of day-care centers the draftm~ of _a Consumer Bill of in the South Bend area in con­R1g~ts which 1_s now before the 
junction with the groups from St. 
Indiana Public Energy Com-Mary's and IUSB. Also planned is an environmental education seminar to deal with topics like recycling on campus and in the 
Compugraphic: M. Blinder Night Controller: Howard Halle 
ARMANDO FORMERLY OF
MADIS!?.~~fl_7 S~!:l~~~~~~ ~~~.'g~~~~g 
South Bend area. 
colle_ction o_f everything ~rom precious Jewels to Junk, amassed over 91 years by the late Geraldine Rockefeller Dodge, goes on sale this week. 
It's  expected  to  raise  over  $5  
million  - most  Of  it  for  a  
bunch of dogs.  

The series of auctions begin Tuesday at her 550-acre estate 
"Giralda " and will continue throughout the fall and winter at the Sotheby Parke Bernet 
~alleries in New York. Among the spectators will be Bert a pointer the last survi­
' ' 
vor of the 169 dogs Mrs. Dodge had when she gave up control 
her estate 12 years ago. Most
of the money raised in the auc­
:l~~ ~~ ~~~~~;tkeadb1~~o~eJod~~~~
Bert and her other dogs, in rotated shifts of 12 to avoid jealousy, slept in Mrs. Dodge's second floor bedroom with her
until she died There was _ md still is _ ·an incli~ed run­.vay from a bedroom wmdow to fenced-in enclosure for their onvenience. 
house and ~arden empty on the corner _of Fifth Aven';le and 61st Street m Manha~tan m cas; ~he 
0
ever had to brmg any . er dogs to. town. That ho':lse IS for sale pnv~t~ly, ?~t th~s ierse) manSIOn ISll t, a. t org d !Sgo~a of the contents IS a rea Y emgcalle~ thh_e doggondest garage 
11
sale 1k ISBtory · 'd th t . 
Par e ernet sai a m she~r n_umbers the Dodge col-l~ctwg I~ tr~ ~rgest' eve,~ aur 
hone ·. nc u t; among e ,­
000 
obJt;ct~ gomg .are .19th cen­tury pamtmgs <pnmanly of an­
· 1 ) b ·1 · t 1
1
_ma s ' r?nzes, SIver, onen a 1,ugs, .carr~ages --: .and a 1936 
Ford salem m~ntm condition. are her
.On New. York 
hl;:s~n t:~~~~:ut~Je~a~~!lte~n. t~~ 
years, estimated . at $390.000, and a ~6.6 carat diamond pend­ant estimated at $325,000. . In a settlement ~or ked out m
New Jersey Supenor Court on March 12, 1974, the Fidelity Un-Ion Trust Co. of N~wa~k was named exe~utor. Fidelity re­placed Edwm Sayres who had 
Head Start to holdJ 
orientation meeting 1 
ROCCO'S BARBER SHOP, IS NOW
incompetent to manage them. St. Hubert's Giralda, the ani­
LOCATED NEAR CAMPUS TO GIVE 
mal shelter she set up for aban­
YOU THE CUT OR STYLE
doned dogs, received $2.85 mil­
lion plus the estate it occupies 
THAT YOU WANT 
and' many of her treasures. The rest of the more than $100 mil­lion legacy -the exact amount has not yet been determined ­

OPEN SIX DAYS A WEEK
went to the Geraldine Rockefel-
MONDAY THRU FRIDAY e TO 5:30 • SATURDAY 8 TO 4
Ier Dodge Foundation. 
The foundation was estab­
lished for charitable purposes 
as was St. Hubert's, but bank 
PERSONALIZED SERVICE 
officials explained that just 
ARMANDO FEMIA 1437 N. IRONWOOD DR.
h t h 't bl th
w a c an a e purposes ose 
PHONE 277-0615 SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
will be have yet been deter­
mined. 
··----------------------------I 
I COM THE PAN I
I 
I
•r2Mm 
1 T'' 
I, GETI
I e e 
"We wel~ome I
anyone who is in­terested m the program. The 
1 
purpose of this meeting is to stimulate a sense of identity as a 
I 
Head Start volunteer and to 
present a source of information 
I 
about the program," said Faley. Project Head Start, accor~ing to I 
McCullough, can provide 1J I The pizza the ~·ewarding experience ~or any~ne
mterested m workmg with 1 Jd •t d I 
children. The program needs wor awal e . 
many volunteers for the 600 St. 
I 
Jospeph County pre-schoolers 
I 
attending classes. (Save our valuable coupons.) 
,.~:~,~~~;~.~0'~7';::: I 8-pack 16 oz. 7Up or Pepsi, just $1 1 
~ s~~:~~= I~ 
; 
J Oct. 6 Deadline Call283-6114" 
12-1 MWF 1-2 T-Th Room 102 lnfirmar 
PIZZA PARL0 RI Th 1 II 
e 0 n y I . . 1 
authen~lc lt'!han 1 
Deep Dlsh Plzza• I1 
1 
I WATCH OUR ADS ALL THIS I WEEK FOR AN EVENT THAT I 
YOU · WON'T BELIEVE I
1 
I 
; 1 
I
I 
277-1221 or 277-1222 1 
1
for 
Free Delivery I1 
anywhere on campus I 
·-------------------------~ 
'I' 
Monday, October 8, 1975 the observer 7 .. 
Cincy, Boston win playoff games 
CINCINNATI <AP> -Tony t h d th h' W ·t. th h b
p d _ wa c ~ . ~s e onr~s mg es -added two more runs off start-Jar season, unloaded a 400-foot e _sevent or so . efore sum-e~ezh s ~~ge_ a t'tw; ~un hom~r ern ~IVIS!On champ10~s pushed er and loser Jim Rooker. drive into the left-field stands. monmg the man With the han­~ tbe ~ncm~~ 1 e s ran de the Pirates to the brmk of eli-The 5-foot-8 left-hander with dlebar moustache. But the way 
1tts. urg !rates ragge , mination with the seven steals, a 42-53 career mark has' found the Red Sox were spraying steahntg at reco6rdl s~ven bahses three more than the previous the home scenery at Riverfront base hits around this classic 
en rou e o a -VICtory ere h' h · 1 ff And · · . --0 Id b II d D k f I bl' ' 
S d h t h R d 1g m a P ayo game. much to h1s hkmg with a 24-6 BOSTON <AP> -Carl Yastr-a yar , ar e t o 1ged un ay. t a gave t e. e s ~ 2-Joe Morgan set a playoff record. zemski and Rico Petrocelli, the to go with his best relief arm 
o lead m the best-of-five NatiOn-record with his four steals in p I t' p· b early.
al 1eague playoffs . erez, a ong 1me 1tts urgh veterans among Boston's youth . 
p-' . d F d .N the first two games. nemesis tagged Rooker for the brigade, slugged home runs to At the lime, the move paid . lnt-sl~e . re orman ~on-The series moves to Pit-~~homer 'with two outs ,·n the II th R d So off. Fingers bailed out of a Red
63
lmued his Riverfront Stadmm sburgh for a Tuesday night r t p t R h t k ra y e e x to a -victo-Sox threat-courtesy of Reggiepitching mastery, taming Pitts-when the Reds will be Irs. eh.ett' ose,tw ok ~o a lh3-ry over the Oakland A's Sunday Jackson's strong left arm
b h' t d b t · th · game, game 1 mg s rea mto t e in the second game of the AL . 
urg s vaun e a s m e VIC-after their third National 1 ff d h d t h't · playoffs. Jackson, who also had a two­
lory that was achieved by Per-· f' P ayo s an a wo ' s m h
ez' three RBI and the Reds' LeNague penntan~ dm t lve y2e0arls. d Cincinnati's 8-3 victory Satur-The triumph was Boston's ~un ~me~l fcor the A'sh, gunned
bT . h orman, s a e o a -ea day opened the game by top-second straight in this best-of-own ec1 ooper at t e plate, a I It~. to run _wit out danger ~n on Perez' first-inning homer, ping a dribbler down the third five playoff and left the Red completing one of a record four the I 1rate pitchers and their limited the Pirates to four hits b . f · Oakland double plays
.. t h M s ·n ase 1me or a smg1e. Sox one victory away from a · caAc cr. /nnr 5!~~~~ en. d in a six-inning stint and con-Rooker retired Morgan and berth in the 1975 World Series. But the Red Sox, who had crow o_ . ' . ' ~econ lributed a sacrifice fly in the Johnny Bench but Perez who The playoffs continue Tuesday been beaten by Fingers three largest in Cmcmnatl history, sixth inning, when the Reds had 20 homer~ during the' regu-night with Game 3 in Oakland. limes during the regular sea-Yastrzemski and Petrocelli, son, retalir.tted in the sixth both long-time Fenway Park With one out, Yaz doubled haC­heroes and the only players left lway up the wall in left field.
Jayvees bla.nk Northwestern 
from the Red Sox' 1967 Ameri-Fingers worked the count to 3-1 can League pennant-winners, on Fisk before the sturdy Red by Hich Odioso Palazola , Rusty Lisch and r_uils by Tom Parise picked up a had the capacity crowd of 35,-Sox cleanup man drilled his 
578 madly cheering their he-single to center, sending Yastr­"Defense, that's the name of the Joe Restic all did a good job." , fi~st down. Restic then hit Domin roics. zesmki home with the tie­gam£>," commented Coach Greg The big gun in the Irish offense ' With a screen pass and the 205­breaking run.
Blache Sunday after his Notre was running back Tom Domin who po~n~ fr~shman from Villa Park, 
Besides his home run, Yaz Then in the seventh, Petro­•
Damp jayvee football team had gained 76 yards in 14 tries, scoring Illmo_Is t!ghtroped 16 yards down threw out a runner from left celli, leading off, unloaded hisshut down Northwestern 14-0. once and setting up another. the s1dehne for the score. 
field and scored the deciding home run, giving the Red Sox aBlache wouldn't get any An interception by NC's Ronnie ''Domin's a real fine prospect run when he doubled in the two-run cushion. Boston addedarguments, not after his team had Cullins put the Irish in position at and I'? bette~ enjoy .hin;t while I sixth inning against the A's ace a run in the eighth on Fredlimited the Wildcats to Ill yards in the Wildcat 44 late in the first ha~e h1m. If his blockmg Improves reliever, Rollie Fingers, and Lynn's RBI single. Relievertotal offense. "That's more than quarter. A 29yard run by Domin a ht~Ie I coul? lose him to the then raced home on Carlton Dick Drago, the third Bostonthe other outfit got," Blache said then moved the Irish into position vars1ty anytime." remarked Fisk's line-drive single to cen­pitcher, protected that edge thewhen informed of this figure. A for Phil Johnson to score on a three Blache. 
rest of the way.
check of the state shows that yard run. Bob Adams added the Pete Pallas was actually NO's ter. 
Petrocelli then tagged Fin­Drago had come on in theMichigan State managed only 83 first of two extra points. leading _groun.~ ~ainer with 79 gers for a huge home run that seventh inning with a man onyards in total "0" in Notre Dame's Notre Dame could not score in yards gamed. He sa good runner sailed into the light tower be­first and none out. He struckother game a 21-11 win. the second quarter as the Irish lo?•. although he gives me the yond the left-field wall in the out pinch-hitter Billy WilliamsThe Irish defense was tested bucked a 25 mile per hour head Wilh~s sometimes the way he seventh inning. and then escaped the jam whenParly as Notre Dame fumbled the wind. The Irish moved the same carnes the ball," Blache added. 
Fingers had arrived on the Tommy Harper, running on a
first three times it had the ball. way in the third quarter but were The ja_yveesyut t_heir 2-0 record scene in the fifth inning-a bit hit-and "un play, was doubled
But the "D.. was equal to the able to add a final score. on the lme this Fr1day afternoon challenge and the Wildcats were ANorthwestern fumble gave the against Michigan. Game time is 'early for him. Manager Alvin off first f)ase as Bill North lined 
Dark usually likes to wait until to Lynu .n center field.
never able to take advantage of Irish good field position and two 1:30 on the Cartier Field Astro­
their field position.Notre Dame's offense moved for 255 yards but was hampered by four fumbles and two in­
terceptions. Three different quarterbacks split time directing the Irish and Blache was pleased with the work of all three. "Jay 
Chess tourney 
There will be a speed chess tourney in room 227 of the Math and Computer Center Bldg. tonight. Bring chess clocks and l'hcss sets. 
~···········~ 
r_.·-!1Jere IS a,,•.i1
i difference!!! \
:~,.,,101t: •
• MCAT 
O.tr )5 ,.,, : e A 1 of nperotnct • 
=. o•-r ....~,~~~ : 
ft I SNit classes • 
: LSAJ Wotum~MVI •• : : GRE ''udJ:···~~·~, :: •~sa c.""" ,h.,... •
• "Iu COIIII.nlly uptbtttl • 
• OCAT T~pe IICthhts lor : 
• ,.,,,.,of clln •
• cn•'J Insons lnd for Ust e
• rA or suppl""'"''"' • 
: FLEX ""'":~· i 
• Mlkt ups tor 
: ECFMG """''1 i : SAT "-' : i NAT'L MED BDS i 
e Moll Cll-t IIIII 8 IIIIHkl e 
• proor to Eum e 
e Sprong & F1ll compacll e • Some courMI offered on • • Metor C1mpuM1 • 
e TEST DATES e 
e MCAT 9·75 NMB'S 6-76 : e OAT 10-75 ECFMG 1·76 • : LSAT 10-75 FLEX 12·75 • e GRE 10-75 OCAT 11·75 e e ATGSB 11·75 CPAT 9-75 • e SAT 11-75 VAT 12-75 e 
: INDIANAPOLIS : 
e 6620 Gr11nllhore Ortve • 
• lnd•enepol•l. lnd 482:!0 e 
• 13171 842-1267 • 
e CHICAGO CENTER • • 13121 7&4-5151 • 
iM:fi
: EDUCATIONAL CflliT£111 e 
• IUI-.....IION • 
• ...CIA1tll5_.1 !Ill • 
____........
~ 
(:111),..... •• ••..-<,..• "~ ut. c'"" 
Turf. 
All Seats S2 (STD-FAC 51.501
11503 LWW 
~ND 
Season Ticket Still Available
ANTONIO'S 
OSCEOLA 
Four Plays 57.50 (55.50 Std-Facl
674-9928 
SMC 
Phone: 284-4176 (Bus. Hrs.l
THEATRE 
283-7559 (Sh, Nitesl
ND-SMC SPECIAL 
INUIAN~
$.20 BEER TUES. NIGHT 
--­
Arthur Kopit's theatrical representation of the treatment of our native Americans.
SUPER PIZZA Oct.10, 11, 16, 17, 18at8:00P.M. 
Stepan Center (Notre Dame)
I II 
NOTICES 
Will do typing, experienced. Term papers, manuscripts, etc. Call: 233-8512. 
Typing. $.35 per page. Call Dan 272-5549. 
Sport Parachuting lessons. Learn the safl' way. 6-8 hours inst. Jump the same day. Contact John Bronson (616) 782-3500 or Larry Enyeart (219) 533·82W. 
Quick loans. MorrlssPy Loan Fund. Up to $150. 30 days to pay at 1 pprcPnt intPrPst. BasPmPnt of LaFortunE' M·F 11:15-12:15. 
Accurate last typing. Mrs. Donoho 232·0746. 
Now opPn tor businPss. FlannPr RPcords. 807 FlannPr. PhonE' 1488. RPcordS· in stock and on ordPr. All 11PW $6.98 LP's lor $4.55. NPW· Allman Bros. Edgar WintPr, Marshall Tucker, Crosby Nash, JPtft>rson Starship. JPihro Tult. 
Addrt>ss envPiopes at homE'. $800 pt>r month,possibiP. Olfpr. dPtails, St>nd $.50 (rPfundabiP) to: TriplE' "S", 699·C36 Highway 138, Pinion Hills, CA 92372. 
WANTED 
NePd 3 USC Tickets. Call Mike atlt>r 6 P.M. 288.0088. 
Dt>SpPraiPiy nPPd ridE' to Dayton, Ohio. WPPkPnd of Oct. 17. Lisa 
4634. 
Nt>Pd ridE' to St. Louis WPE'kend of Oct. 11.12. Call Cathy 4436. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
Nt>ed travPI companion to tour EuropP next sPmPstPr. Call 1425. ' 
Rich Alumnus will pay morp for 4 USC fix. Call Jim at 8904 for info. 
Stud<mls earn while you IE'arn part­limP contact work afford Pxtra incomP. For appointmPnl 684-4396. 
Wantt>d: 2 GA tix lor Pitt gaml'. Call Lisa, 8089. 
DPsppratPiy nPPd two Southern Cal fix. Call Bob 3665. 
Wan!Pd: 4 General Admission tix to any homP gamE'. Bob D. 232·0550 
Need ridE' to Chapel Hiii,NC' for ND.UNC game. Call Ed 1642. 
DPspprately nped ridE' to Pitt· sburgh on October 17th. Will sharp PXpPnsPs. PleaSE' call MichelE' at 277·1567. 
DespPratE'Iy nPed 1 USC ticket. Will pay WE'll. Call Mark 1474. 
Wan!Pd: 2 So. Cal tix Call Ruth 
6173. 
Nt>Pd two GA SC tix. Will pay unlimi!Pd Coors and or$. JoE' 6701 or 6795. 
NPt>d ridE' MWF from PortagE' and Angpla to NO. Can !Pave 9 A.M. or ParliPr. Call 289·8015 any PVPning. 
NePd ridPrs east to Philly IPave Thurs. Oct. 9th. Call Craig 287­3865. 
NPed ridP on 1·80 WPSt to and from cPntral Illinois wePkPnd of Oct. 10 or 17. Will sharp PXPPnSPS. Call 6804. 
Wantt>d: 1 studpnt or GA USC tickPI. Call 6804. 
DPSpPratply nE't"d USC fix will pay welt. 7937,piPaSP. 
DPSpPratply nPPd 2 or 4 USC G.A. tickpts. Call 4438 
NPed 3 or 4 GA lix for Pitt gamP. Call 3334 or 3332. 
PERSONALS 
Tim and MikP Thanks for walking us home, JPnnifPr and MargiE'. 
In apprPciation of Dick T. Dum. my's safp rPturn. his capturPrs arp "CORDIALLY" invitPd to dinnPr next Wt'dnPsday at 6:30 P.M. RSVP, Dol' Mac, Kat, Sam. 
Tom WeltE' says Campus ViPw is "Nirvana" ThP Turkt'ys. 
9C: DoublE' Dis aliVE' and WE'll in Camdf'n. 
Happy Birthday, Lil, LOVE' LE'E'. 
lntE'rE'StPd in thE' finf'r things of lifE'? Join thE' BUSAI club. Contact Phrf'dd, Dusty F. Ski, or E.O.Nadi. 
Coops, WPicomP to the over·the­hill gang!!· Muck along. The Room iPs. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: gold bracPIE't in vicinity of Library,Nickips.Corb,y's. Call 7871. 
Found: '77 class ring in Carroll Halt. Call 5103. 
Lost: 1 tan cardigan lost bPtWPPn football stadium and O'ShaughnPssy. PIPasp call DPbby 8152. 
Lost: glassps, pink tramPS with pink IPnSPS. RPWard. PhOnP 7607. 
j 
Found: 1 locket at stadium aflpr NorthWl'SIE'rn gam!'. SUE' 7973. 
Lost: man's gold ring with black onyx facing, lost bPIWt>Pn D 1 and North Dining Halt. Rt•ward. Call JJJ4. 
FOR SALE 
Quality SIE'rf'o componPnts at 20 30 perc!'~! savings. RMS Audio; 321 S. Matn; 288·1681 12·7 P.M. 
10 spf'Pd bikE', $50. Call Paul or Larry 3207. • 
FOR RENT 
Excpptional room. no smokf'rs, brt'aklast priviiPgE's, nPar bus. Call 232·8838. 
Rent my upstairs, 2 rooms, $50. 
233·1329, kf'Pp trying. 
'SludPnls or faculty, 5 rooms fur­nishPd, privatE', utillliPS furnished. SE'curity dt>poslt, nPar campus. . 1002 Campiau SlrPPI. Call 234-7925. 
• 
8 the observer Monday, October a, 1975 
.. 
by Bill Brink Spartans just didn't care. They Sports Editor were ecstatic. In the locker room afterwards they counted off the 
No one knew exactly how, or score, sung their fight song over exactly why. All anyone could say and over, then attacked and for sure was what the scoreboard splintered a blackboard upon told them; that the Michigan State which coach Denny Stolz had writ­Spartans had defeated Notre ten 'Michigan State 10-Notre Dame Dame 10-3 Saturday afternoon in 3.' Notre Dame Stadium. "It's nice to beat a perrenial 
To be sure, the game was power. Notre Dame is always 
1rouded in bewilderment. There ranked high in the polls and always \1 ~re ten fumbles, three in-a prime candidate for a bowl," ter•~eptions, only one touchdown said a jubilant Stolz. "It was a (late in the final quarter), and the very, very physical ballgame, the most popular explanation for it all type that typifies a Spartan-Irish was "I just don't know." football game." 
"It's a game that's hard to Errors hurt the Irish badly, decipher at this point," said ND especially in the first half when coach Dan Devine. "I'll have to they had several scoring op­look at the films first." portunities. In fact, after Terry 
When asked whv there were so Eurick returned the opening many turnovers, one Irish player kickoff from the end zone to the replied, "if you can answer that, Irish 47, starting quarterback Joe tell me, I'd like to know." Montana led the team down to 
Linebacker Doug Becker State's 22. But on a fourth and one perhaps summed it up best when play, Montana's sneak was short, he said, "I don't know, it was just and the Spartans took over. one of those days." Later in the first quarter, after t-
What seemed to cause so much he teams had traded punts,.. wonder was not their failure to Michigan State's excellent quart­move the ball so much as their erback Charlie Baggett had his failure to keep it. The Irish t-first pass of the day intercepted by hemselves were guilty of 6 fum-cornerback Luther Bradley who blf"o;,three of which they lost, and returned it to the ND 43. Montana two interceptions-. Everyone used the runnfng of Jim Browner knew that would lose a ballgame, and AI Hunter to move down to the but no one was sure why it hap-Spartan 6 yd. line. Montana ran it pened. to the two, then rolled right on an "They were really sticking," option. He may have had the right said Slager of Michigan State, "but side open to run it in, but saw Doug we knew they would when we went Buth open in the end zone and into the game." lobbed a pass into the end zone that 
"We may have been nervous," came down in the hands of State's offered center Steve Quehl, "we Tom Hannon. were really psyched. I think "Joe did the right thing because maybe we were not concentrating they had left Buth all alone," said on the little things." Devine. "But now I wished they 
All this eventually led to one big had covered him because from thing, a 76 yard scamper by State's where I stood it looked like he Tyrone Wilson in the fourth quart-could have run it." 
'er, which set up their eventual Minutes later Tony Zappala winning touchdown. recovered a Jim Early fumble on And if the Irish couldn't figure MSU's 16, but the Irish could not out what had happened, the penetrate the end zone, and Dave 
Ernie Torriero ~===~=====:!:====i============~=======~;:::::::::::=======================-s:::-s:=================:: 
Extra Points 
::::~=~==:=-s:=:=:=-s:===========~==========-s::::-s~=====================================~===~ Coming back 
When the going gets tough and everything seems fruitlessly hopeless, one thing stands true; -character. Dan Devine is a man of intense desire. He drives his team hard and pushes himself even harder. 
"I feel as badly about losing this game as any in my entire life," Devine solemnly commented after Saturday's debacle. He really didn't have to say that. You could read the signs of defeat on the lines of his forehead. 
Like most football coaches, Devine is an unrelentless worker. Also like his peers, he wanted very much to win on Saturday. In fact, words cannot express just how much Devine wanted to beat MSU. He did what he thought was right to achieve that goal. In the end, it just wasn't to be. 
While many people were worrying about who would start at quar­terback last Saturday, Devine was more concerned about Michigan St­ate. As it turned out, he had a lot to be concerned about. 
"Michigan State is a very physical team and that's what concerns me most," Devine kept saying all last week. "We don't usually play well against those type of teams. Nebraska beat us in the Orange Bowl a few years ago. They were a physical team. Southern Cal last yeart to an extent was a physical squad." 
Now Devine can add Michigan State to the list. For the Spartans demoralized Devine and his team both physically and psychologically. 
Physically, the Irish are suffering greatly. Notre Dame sustained a number of key injuries, most notably to defensive end Ross Browner (sprained ankle, free safety, Randy Harrison (tendonitis), linebacker Doug Becker (severe ankle sprain), halfback AI Hunter (lower back contusion), and tackle Pat Pohlen (sprained ankle), freshman fullback Jim Browner <sprained left knee), and offensive tackle Harry Woebkenberg <sprained back). Woebkenberg, who had to leave the game on a stretcher, will be out indefinitely while Jim Browner will be lost for four weeks. Becker, Ross Browner, Harrison and Hunter are listed as very doubtful for Saturday's contest with North Carolina. Pohlen, who missed most of the Michigan State game, is a questionable starter this week. 
"We have a pretty good nucleus for a team in the training room," Devine sighed after surveying the walking wounded. "I'm not counting on any miraculous recoveries. We must find replacements for our injured people." 
Psychologically, the Irish must rebound from the disappointing loss. As
• 
the old adage reads, "One game does not a season make." There are still seven games to play in the season, including one important grudge match with Southern Cal. 
Devine must remind his team that the season is hardly over. Last year, Southern Cal won the national championship after losing their opening contest with Arkansas. It is very conceivable the way things are going that the eventual national champion will have one loss this season. 
Michigan State quarterback Charlie Baggett emphasized the role desire played in the MSU victory. "A lot of people picked Notre Dame to win out here today," said Baggett. "But the Spartans didn't feel that way." 
A lot of people are saying Notre Dame's season is completely lost and that the Irish have no shot whatsoever at national prominence. Whether the Irish feel that way or not remains to be seen. 

