
server 
university of notre dame -st. mary's college 
Monday, April 21, 1975 

At local bar 
Students arrested 
by Maureen Flynn "when this cop came over and I asked him Staff Reporter ··what's going on?' The next thing I knew he ordered me to put my hands on the car and he
Six Notre Dame students were among nine 
kicked my legs back. Then I was handcuffed and persons arrested Friday night outside Bridget taken to the jail," Herenda stated.McGuire's Filling Station, a local tavern.

NOTRE D/\ME. 
"The only order he gave me was to put myFive of the six were charged with disobeying a

COLLECTION 
hands on the car," the student continued, "and Ipublic safety order to disperse after a did it right away." Herenda voiced concern thatdisturbance inside the tavern resulted in the the incident might affect his chances for em­arrest of a tenth person. The sixth was charged ployment. "I'm looking for a job right now," he with disorderly conduct. said. "Now when they ask, 'Have you ever beenThe students were released from the South arrested?' I'm going to have to answer yes. 'Foi:Bend jail the next morning upon payment of $50 what?' Nothing."bond. Notre Dame junior John Cooper expressedVice officers were initially called to Bridget consternation over the charge of disorderlyMcGuire's at 1:45 a.m. to answer of a complaint conduct lodged against him. "According to theof minors drinking in the building. According to law," Cooper claimed, "I'd have had. to haveJAILED STUDENTS without bail were victims for pie throwing at An police, over half the patrons left when minors been near inciting a riot."were ordered to leave by the bartender. A

Tostallast Thursday. The festivities continued until Saturday evening 
"I was standing outside Corby's when thescuffle ensued when a 22-year-old patron refused 

concluding with the Irish Wake. See the photo essay on page 4. 
police got to Bridget's," he explained. "Weto cooperate with officers checking identification heard them tell the crowd to leave within twocards of those remaining, authorities said. minutes. One girl timed it with her watch, andPolice units called to the assistance of the

n Tostal a success 
when a minute and a half were up, we startedofficers ordered the outside crowd to disperse leaving. I was walking across the street,"and set a time of limit of two minutes for them to Cooper stated, "when I was stopped andcomply.

despite the weather 
arrested."

Students unaware
by Bob Mader Cooper denied that he had resisted the officers Staff Reporter in any way. "They told me to get in the car," he
"We were unaware of the order to disperse,"
Assistant An Tostal Chairman Bob Quakenbush termed the three­related. "They told me I could either get in in the
claimed one of the six students arrested. He
day festival "a tremendous success despite the threatening weather." front or in back with the dog." Cooper stated,
explained that he and two friends had been
GPntle Thursday's events were begun by the Trivia bowl which was however, that he was not handled forcefully by
eating in Dan Boone's Restaurant (Cafe de Ia
hosted by Rich Morton and Digger Dziemainowicz. The event lasted the officers. "They weren't the friendliest guys
Nuit l next door. "Evidently while we were in­
wP!l over two hours and several hundred questions were presented to in the world," he added, "but they didn't beat me 
side, the cops gave the order," the student
the generally unknowledgeable participants. up or anything, although I was handcuffed."
stated.

FormPr An Tostal greats Greg Monito and Bob Higgins returned to The other two Notre Dame students involved
"We moved to the front of the crowd to see
rPferee the Jocks vs. Girls Basketball Game. As usual the girls were could not be reached for comment.
what was going on, but as the cops started tovictorious. The highlight of the game was Adrian Dantley's belly move into the crowd, we turned and walked
dance. as he rippled his over-developed stomach muscles to the Trial this week
away," he continued. "Then Mike and I weredelight of the crowd. grabbed and arrested, but our other friend kept The six students will stand trial later thisApproximately 1300 people attended the Thursday night barbeque at walking and got away." week, and as yet none is sure how he will beSt. Mary's. There were a few problems, Quakenbush said, where "We just happened to come out when the time represented. "I can't afford to be 'not guilty',"people had not gotten meal tickets for the barbeque and were not limit was up," stated Mike Ergo, the unidentified Cooper said. "I can't afford the court fees. I'llallowPd to eat there at the dining halls. · student's companion. "We were just looking to probably walk in, plead guilty, and pay the fine." Talisman presented a free concert that night on the North Quad, see what was happening. We didn't know "I'll plead 'not guilty'," Herenda said. "Athighlighting the jail, pie throwing booth and the dunking booth. anything. Then we were walking away towards least that's what I say now from an idealisticSPveral escapes were made from the "escape proof" jail when some the A&P and we were grabbed from behind. We standpoint. I may talk to someone who'll advise
resourceful individuals picked it up and carried it off. 
spent the night in jail," Ergo continued, "until me otherwise."
Pie throwing at the jail occupants without bail was fast and furious 
our friend came down and paid $50 bail for each Ergo and his companion stated that they hadand the supply of pies ran out at 9:30. of us." consulted with a law student who intended toFour of Thursday's events were cancelled due to rain and when "I was in Bridget's earlier," twenty-one-year­contact the University General Counsel in theirThursday chairman Kevin Maguire was bitten through his shirt by an old Tony Herenda related, "but I left to take behalf.irate female he was escorting to jail. The would-be escapee drew some friends home. I was coming back with a Notre Dame Dean of Students John Machecablood and Maguire had to be taken to the hospital. friend of mine and we saw all these cops out­stated that he knew nothing of the incident inMr. Alumni won the Mr. Campus Contest in front of a near capacity side. and a police station wagon with a big question, but "normally it's up to the students tocrowd in Stepan Center. According to some observers, the contest German shepherd in it. There was an officer resolve their problems downtown, as it would bedegenerated into a "gross-out" contest. there who was threatening to sic the dog on the for you, for me, or for a professor. Basically it's A final wrap-up of An Tostal events will be in tomorrow's paper people standing around," Herenda claimed. between those students and the localalong with a complete list of the winners in every event. "1 was just looking at the dog," he continued, authorities," Macheca said. 
Students file petitions to reinstate Pechek 
by Don Reimer  Physical Education Department, demonstration.  replied that Pechek should submit  
Staff Reporter  confronted him last spring and After he received the notice that Pechek's contract, Fallon stated  a letter to him outlining the  
expressed dissatisfaction with his · his contract would not be renewed, that the evaluation was based on  reasons for the request, which  
Fifteen-hundred Notre Dame  performance. Pechek viewed the evaluation the person's "professional com­ Pechek did soon afterwar~.  
students have petitioned University  Fallon and Pechek discussed the sheets. He then asked each of the petence."  The following Tuesday when  
Provost Fr. James Burtchaell to  situation last May and decided committee members if they had  Pechek returned to meet with  
reinstate Mr. Fred Pechek, N.D.  that the 74-75 school year would be ever seen him teach. Falon Received no guidance  Hofman he was informed :the his  
physical education instructor and  used as a "trial period", in which responded that he had never ob­ request for an appeal had been  
wrestling coach since 1973. The  Pechek was to attempt to improve served Pechek in person, while the Pechek, an N.D. graduate, said  turned down.  
petitions have not yet received a  his performance. The areas of other two members had attended that he received absolutely no  
response from the Provost.  dress and attitude were the main several classes and substituted in guidance during the year from any  Ht-commt-ndations approved  
"We felt there must be  problems pointed out last spring, various instances. Fallon admitted of the committee members. "l  
something we could do for him,"  according to Pechek. that he had never observed one of received no negative or positive  Apparently, Hofman, Burt­ 
stated Dave Boyer, the N.D.  "Both Pechek and I were not Pechek's classes but added that, reaction on whether I was fulfilling  chaell, and Fr. Ferdinand Brown,  
wrestler who organized the  satisfied with his performance last "One can very often tell when my duties during the year," he  the administrators who approved  
petition drive. "As a coach he has  year, and this year was to be the covering a person's class what remarked.  the committee's recommendations  
done a lot for us."  determining year," commmented kind of a job he is doing." Pechek The March 1st notice was the  for non-renewal of Pechek's con­ 
When contacted about the  Fallon in reference to last spring's pointed out that much of the first indication which Pechek had  tract, reviewed both Pechek's  
petitions, Burtchaell confirmed  meetings. He added that he evaluation seemed to be based on that he failed to improve sur­ letter and the committee's letter  
that he had received them and said  believed that Pechek was "well his teaching, yet one of the ficiently in the performance of his  and concluded that the decision  
that he had considered them. He  aware" that if his performance evaluators had never seen one of duties to warrant the renewal of  was valid.  
refused, however, to disclose what  didn't improve his contract might his classes and the others only a his contract. According to  Pechek said that he was under  
action, if any, he took in connection  not be renewed. small number of times. He felt that Pechek's contract, March 1st was  .the impression that he would be  
with the petitions.  this fact raised doubts about the the final day on which he could be  able to present his case before the  
Pechek, a Notre Dame graduate,  Pt-rformance rated validity of the class organization legally notified of the non-renewal  three administrators and he  
received a registered letter on  and demonstation sections of the of his contract.  recalled feelings of "confusion and  
March 1, 1975 informing him that  A rating sheet enco~pa~sing the evaluation sheets. Fallon responded to this point  anger" upon learning of the  
his teaching contract with the  areas of class orgamzation, ap­. saying, "In order not to influence  rejection.  
)>hysical Education tlepartment  pearance, attitude, and demon· The co~mitt~ c~,lled P~hek's one anothers decisions, he  When contacted concerning the  
would not be renewed for the 1975­ stration ability was completed dress atrocious • stating as a <Pechek) was not told by the  appeal Hofman said that an appeal  
76 school year. The situation which  by Fallon and the two other reason the fact t,hat it ·,did not committee that this was coming  had been heard by the dean and the  
led to Pechek's contract not being  tenured members of the depart· ~bear an "N.D. Phys. Ed."' up." Citing that Pechek knew last  provost and rejected. He stated  
renewed this year began to develop  ment, Noel O'Sullivan and Dennis "Where is there a dress code?" year that this was a trial period  that ithere were absolutely no  
last year, his first in the depart·  Stark. These three men comprise questioned Pechek. He noted that Fallon commented, "It should not  further appeals.  
ment.  the Committee on Appointments the terms of his contract call for have come as a surprise."  Burtchaell also refused com­ 
and Promotions in the Physica• . clothes that are "comfortable apd In the week immediately  ment on the case citing a "fll'Dl  
Confronted last spring  !Education department. easy to perform in" arid does not following the March 1st notice  rule.._ in the administration that  
Pechek received unfavorable specify any furthur requirement. Pech_ek sent a letter to Dean of  they do not make themselves  
According to Pechek. Mr.  evaluations in each of the While refusing to discuss the '.Fres~unan year EmU T. Hofman,  av~ilable (or comment in faculty  
Thomas Fallon, head of the  categories except that of specific reasons fC)r_ the Com-j r~~~ an rpp~ar Hofman  penonal inatters.  


the observer 
world briefs 
By United Press ln­terutloul .• The wont flooding In 25 y..rs forced hundreds of families to flee their homes In · central and southern Michigan· Sunday, at the same time persons In Frederic, Mich., and Jackson, Tenn., began to clnn up from weekend tornadoes. 
Gov. William G. Milliken asked for federal disaster aid to 14 Michigan counties flooded by several of the state's major rivers. 
MOSCOW (UPI) -KGB polltlca pollee staged a 29-hour search at the home of Alexander Ginzburg, one of expelled author Alexander I. Solzhenltsyn's friends, who lives In Internal exile In the town of Tarusa, 75 miles south of Moscow, dissident sources said Sunday. 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The I White House has decided to) offer the post of United States ambassador to the United i Nations Daniel . Patrick Moynihan, official sources said Sunday. 
.; 
NEW YORK (UPI) -Con­sumer advocate Bess Myerson said In a magazine article released Sunday that parents should advocate legislation setting "strong federal stan­dards" for safety at children's summer camps. 
TOKYO (UPI) -A strong earthquake Jolted Kyushu and Shikoku, Japan's two southernmost main Islands, at 
2:35 a.m. Monday, 1:35 p.m. EDT Sunday. 
an campus taday 
12:30 p.m.--mass, fr. robert griffin, Iafortune ballroom. 3:30p.m. --faculty colloquium, "some basics of Jung's psychology of religion" by thomas kapaclnskas, library lounge. 5:00p.m.--vespers, log chapel. 6:oop.m. kecture, "brave new world??" by dr. harvey bender, little theater, 
8:00 p.m. --panel discussion, "epidemic starvation series: the multinational corporation" with frederick dow, anlmesh !:JOShal and basil o'leary, rm 124 hayes-healy. 
the observer 
Night Editor: Marti Hogan , 
Assistant Night Editor: Martha I Fanning · lAyout Staff: Patty Dondanvllle, Kathy Skiba, Bill Murray Day Editor: Mary Reher Copy Reader: G.B. Bangs Features: Thomas O'Neil , Sports: Bill Brink, Val Zurblls I Typists: Martha Fanning, Don· 
Roos, Nell VIII, Mary Corr, Rick· 
Huber i Compugraphlc: Bob Steinmetz Night Controller: M.J. Foley Late Typist: Dave Rust Picture Screener: Albert D'An­tonio Ad Layout: Bob Tracy 
1 
Monday, April 21, 1975 




Business dean 


Ryan receives appointment 
Bro. Leo V. Ryan has been named dean of the College of Business Administration at the University of Notre Dame, it was announced Thursday <Aprill7) by Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, University president. The aJ?­pointment, which is effective this summer, was made with the concurrence of the College of Business Administration Council. 
A specialist in institutional finance, Bro. Ryan succeeds Acting Dean Yusaku Furuhashi, who has served since the resignation of Dean Thomas T. Murphy in May 1974. Furuhashi will return to full-time teaching as professor of marketing 
In making the appointment, Father Hesburgh said, "I wish to express the deep gratitude of the University and of myself to Dr. 
Yusaku Furuhashi for his resourceful and dedicated leadership. It is very diificult to be an acting dean, yet very positive steps were taken this year under his direction. We also are indebted to the members of the search . committee for the new dean, which 
was headed by Dr. Herbert F. Sim, 
professor of finance and business 
economics." 
Bro. Ryan brings to Notre Dame national and international ex­perience as a business and educational administrator, educator, corporation consultant, fund raiser and prolific author of books and articles on subjects ranging from administration and 
business  management  to  social  
science.  
During  the  current  academic  
year,  Bro.  Ryan  has  been  on  

sabbatical from his most recent position as president of St. Viator High School in Arlington Heights, Illinois, to do consulting, research and writing. His consulting assignments include the ad­ministrative reorganizations of the City of Milwaukee (Wisconsin) Department· of Economic Development, Forlow Tours <Chicago) and the Vilter Manufacturing Company of Milwaukee. He is on the Board of Directors of Vilter Manufacturing Company, serves as grant ad­ministrator on the Board of Trustees of the Center for Human Development at St. Mary's College <Winona, Minnesota), and is a consultant on school finance to the National Catholic Education Association. 
Bro. Ryan received his Bachelor of Science degree in business administration from Marquette University in Milwaukee, his 
M.B.A. in marketing from De Paul University in Chicago, and his Ph.D in management and education from St. Louis <Missouri) University. He has done additional graduate study in business at Catholic University of America and in education at De Paul, Northwestern and Bradley Universities. 
Between 1957 and 1965, he held B. variety of positions at Marquette, among them, assistant dean and evening division director of the 
The Observer Is publiShed deity during the college semester except vacations by the stuoents of the University of Notre Dame Md St. Mary's College. SubKrlptlons may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box' Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

College of Business Ad­ministration. During those years, Bro. Ryan also directed workshops on school business administration and school accounting, and founded and developed Marquette's Division of Continuing Education. In 1974, he was chosen to receive the Marquette Business Administration Alumni Association's "Man of the Year" award. 
Bro. Ryan joined the Loyola University of Chicago School of Business in 1965 as professor and chairman of the department of management, and a year later was granted a leave of absence to serve as a Foreign Service Reserve Officer with the United States Peace Corps. During his tenure as director of the Peace Corps in Western Nigeria, Bro. Ryan also was a visiting professor at the Institute of Public Administration, University of Ife, and, in 1967, 
became the first American receive a chieftancy title Nigeria. The new dean has served  to in as  
HAPPY  
BIRTHDAY  

DAVE HERBEK 
From the Carolina Coed and The Gang at U.N.C. 
FROM NOW UNTIL 
FINALS, YOU'LL BE STUDYING. TAKE ABREAK FOR 
DEEP DISH PIZZA 
Iassistant superior general and business administrator of his congregation, the Clerics of Saint Viator, and as liason officer bet­ween the Union of Superiors General, Rome, and the Pontifical Commission for Justice and Peace, Vatican City. As a special assignment for the U. S. Catholic Conference in 1971, he was one of the drafters of the national Roman Catholic Bishops pastoral on education : 'To Teach as Jesus Did." 
Bro. Ryan has been vice president of the Archdiocese of Chicago School Board, a member of the National Committee on Education of the U.S. Catholic Conference, national president of the Catholic Business Education Association, and a member of the board of directors of the Alpha Kappa Psi foundation for research in business and business leader­ship. 
HIGH ADVENTURE STARTS AT 2500 FEET 
Your first jump course $40.00 takes only 3 hours. 
World's largest and safes.l. 
Our 17th year. 

Over 250,000 Jumps. 25,000 First Jumps. 
Free brochure. 

PARACHUTES INC., CRAWFORDSVILLE CENTER J9.ll RR No. 7, Munlclpll Airport ~ Cr•wfordsvilll, lndiUI 47833 
(;I] Phone: 317-362·8253 

Another Special Event InThe American Film Theatre Sea$on Of Special EvenJs. 
Today andTomorrow only at 2and 8P.M. 
''The result of the writer·diredor collaboration is superb." -Judith Crist, New York Magazine 
"Acting at its most inspiring level." The Dallas Times Herald 
Tickets: $5.00 Evenings. $3.50 Matinees. ($2.50 for Senior Citizens/Students at Matinees.) Available after AFT Season Tick11t holders are seated. 
..... --........ 'P ••••••• 
RIVER PARI< 
,. ...... .......... . 
·~ 

... 



for sale by THE OBSERVER See the display in the Huddle & the Observer office 



POSTERS 
-------------~---I
''THE PAN''  I I  
DEEP DISH PIZZA  I I I  
for the N.D. & S.M.C. COMMUNITY  I I I  
IT'S AS CLOSE AS YOUR PHONE  I II  
1277-1221_ or. 277-1222  I ·1  

. I 

FREE DELIVERY i 
I

on or off-campus. 
I -also quick pickup service I 
I 

·,..._ '107 DIXIEWAY NORTH ·JUST.. NORTH _OF RANDALL'S I~N.. 
I \ ) .~ • < 

:Monday Aprll 21, 1975 
the observer 



At weekend symposium 


Bishops discuss Mexican-American issues 
by Mary Pat Tarpt~y Staff Reporter 

There is presently a noticeable increase in the recognition of the Chicano population in areas other than the Southwestern portion of the United States, according to Bishop Gilbert E. Chavez, auxiliary from San Diego, California. 
In a press conference held Saturday morning, Chavez asserted, "If we were at o:ne time concentrated in the Southwest area, we are no longer confined to that specific area." In response to questions which arose from this statement, Chavez stated, "The awareness of the needs of the Chicano is growing in the Mid­west." 
The press conference began a symposium entitled, "Human Rights and Social Justice and the Church," sponsored by the Mexican-American Lecture Series which was held this past weekend in the Center for Continuing Education. 
The participants, three Mexican-

U.S. News 

leader in 
by Pat Hanifin Campus Editor 

Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, University president, was named the nation's most influential leader in religion and third most in­fluential leader in education in a 
U.S. News and World Report questionnaire sent to 1,000 of the nation's influential mt~n and women last month and published in the current edition of the magazine. 
Hesburgh's immediate reaction, he said, was, "surprise. I made out a questionnaire--{){ course I didn't vote for myself--but I didn't expect to rank so high in the voting," he admitted. 
He played down the importance of the honor saying, "You have to take these things with a sense of humor. They come and go and are not all that important. It was just a vote of my peers." 
The vote was part of U.S. News' annual survey of American leadership. One thousand Americans who the magazine deemed influential because of their positions or activities including scholars, businessmen, labor leaders, foundation heads, educators, political office holders and others were asked to list the top five men or women they con­sidered to be the "most influential in the U.S. today." 
They were also asked to name three persons they considered most influential in their own field. Three points were given for a first place nomination, two for second and one for a third. The points were added up to give railings in twelve fields. 
In the field of religion Hesburgh outscored Billy Graham who came in at second place; Archbishop Joseph Bernardin of Cincinnati at third; Pope Paul at fourth; and Rabbi Joseph Soloveitchik, professor at Yeshiva Unive~rsity at fifth. 
In education the ratings were: 
1. Clark Kerr, chairman of the 

American bishops, spoke on the history of the Chicano presence in America. Bishop Patricio 
Flores, who is presently the auxiliary of San Antonio, Texas, discussed "The Chicano and the Church." Bishop Chavez spoke on "Contemporary Social Issues Facing Chicanos" and Archbishop Robert F. Sanchez of Sante Fe, New Mexico, recently appointed Vicar General, presented "Possibilities for the Future." 
The questionning dUring the press conference dealt mainly with the Catholic Church and its relationship and involvement with the Chicano Community. In an­sweringa question pertaining to the amount of Spanish speaking Catholics, Bishop Flores observed, 
"In a recent survey it showed that 
there are fifty million Catholics 
and we are one-fourth of all the 
Catholics in the entire country." 
The major concern brought up 
during the conference was the lack 
of clergy in the Spanish com­
munity. An observer of Mexican­
American heritage complained 
there aren't enough priests and sisters in the Chicano .neighbor . hoods. In reply, Bishop Flores 
said, "We took a survey about· 
three years ago and there weren't 
even two hundred priests, Puerto 
Ricans and Cubans included. In the 
last few years a few were ordained 
but not enough." 
Chavez added, "I would estimate that there are about 1 1,000 nuns but many are oppressed. 
If nuns were liberated we'll have 
tremendous force." Flores 
commented that there ,are 
twenty-eight different com­
munities of -sisters working in 
kitchens and of those seventy 
eight, only three are not from 
Mexico which are Spanish orders. 
He complained that the Chicanos 
never see their sisters out of the 
kitchen. 

Another observer asked if there 
was any way that nuns could be 
reintroduced into the community. 
Sanchez explained, "The only way 
is to get our sisters sensitized. 
They go into the convent and don't 
come back. Now they're beginning 
to say I want to go where I belong." 
Sanchez spoke for a short period 
on the number of priests and their 
education. "We're gaining priests. 
cites Hesburgh as religion, education 
Carnegie Council on Policy studies in Higher Education; 
2. 
Roger Heyns, president of the American Council on Education; 

3. Fr. Hesburgh; 

4. 
Kingman Brewster, president of Yale; 

5. 
Ernest Boyer, chancellor of the State University of New York. 


Global Action Lobby 

Hesburgh is also currently working on creating a "global action lobby," an extension on the national-level Common Cause concept to the international level. "The organization would act as a lobby before Congress, the U.N. and other groups on behalf of the needs of world justice," Hesburgh explained, "coordinating efforts towards peace, disarmament, famine control and so on." 
Fifty thousand letters were to have been sent out to prospective supporters at the end of last month but Hesburgh explained that ex­pected problems with return mail prevented this. "We had originally intended to send the letters out over my signature and ask that replies be sent to our Washington office but we realized that a lot of people would simply write to me here at the University and cause a tremendous mail overload." 
Plans now call for getting someone who has more time than Hesburgh to send out the letter and for increasing the mail-handling capacity of the group's Washington office. 
Hesburgh explained the need for 
such a group, pointing out that 
"there are now a lot of groups 
working for various projects 
connected with the issues of 
world justice but there is no 
coordination among them and no 
input to the government since most 
of them are non-profit 
organizations that cannot lobby 
without losing their tax-exempt 
status." 
The new group would be 
specifically set up as a lobby with 
headquarters in Washington and would concentrate on effecting Congressional legislation and other federal government activity in the international sphere. 
The presidential pardon program is still continuing, Hesburgh explained, despite the deadline for new applications which passed April 1. Twenty thousand requests for pardons remain to be processed, a job which will last until September. 
Although Hesburgh last month expressed concern over whether he would be able to continue in his amnesty board position because of the time it took from his other duties, he now says he --"probably will stay." The board has asked President Ford for nine new members to reduce the workload per man and Hesburgh expects that the request will be granted. 
Hesburgh defended the presidential program against detractors who feel that it is not for helping many of the men in trouble for opposing the Indochina war. 
"Ninety-five percent of all ap­plicants have gotten pardons," he 
<continued to page 7) 
~:.........~ 
CAR PROBLEMSt 
DON'T GET RIPPED OFF ON PARTS FOR YOUR CAR! 
WE HAVE PARTS FO~ MOST AMERICAN & FOREIGN CARS AVAILABLE AT WHOLESALE PRICES 

HOFFMAN BROS. 1101 E. MADISON­234-0181 . 
There are efforts to adapt . seminaries so that our , boys can feel at home; so that they can ·remain and contribute. Now more 'are entering the seminary but when they do they lose their identity and cultures. When they come back tthey return as 
· foreigners to their own com­munity. In this way they're in­justices to Chicanos in the seminaries. The solution to this would be bi-lingual, bi-cultural seminaries. Some major seminaries are doing well. We're trying to get it done on the collegiate level with in-depth courses for sensitivity to om own culture, lined up for boys to take over four years." 
Flores noted a need for at least one national seminary for the training of Spanish-speaking people especially Mexican­Americans.Flores also felt there are a certain number of bishops in the hierarchy that recognize the need and deficiency of existing seminaries and are willing to admit it and do something about it." He added,"We have to look for people who see thmgs from our 
-
• 








~ NDTh1ii:; SMC~!!:~~ 
at 8:00P.M.THE AT REO'Laughlin Auditorium Rcst'rvations All Seats $2.00 284-4176 Students-Faculty-Staff 
--~------------~­
1 NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION 
side." 
The topic of religious par­ticipation came up. "We can't help but have a heavy heart when our churches are surrounded by ten other denominations," Sanchez 
1
.admitted., "All our peeple remain ·Catholic in their hearts but since :we don't have the nuns, priests and :a church with which they can ,relate, they go to other 
denominations," he said. ; In the general realm of dif­ficulties facing the Chicano, the 
'bishops showed their concern for the migrant workers. "We have a definite concern for temporal and spirituaLw~ll-beingof the migrants from Mexico, legally or illegally. No one is more abused than 'migrants without documentation. For the-last three years we've been formulating a program of action for the counseling and · assistance to those who are here and those who wish to come," 
· Sanchez summed up. i The symposium ended on Sun­' day with a panel, a reception and 
attendance' at Notre Dame's an­nual International Festival in Washington Hall. 

·PROUDLY PRESENTS

t 
t 
t 
t THE ALICE COOPER SHOW 
"WELCOME TO MY NIGHTMARE" 
STARRING 
I I 

.ATTENTION All SO·PHOMORES· 

This was An Tostal 1975. 
(Photos by Patty Romano, Chris Smith & Bobby Tracey.) 


Monday, April 21, 1975 the observer 



chess--intellectual escape from academia 

a dangerously subversive proposal 
Of all the parlour games that became popular in the rigid social atmosphere of two generations ago, a few gained stability and are now an integral part of our more increasingly recreation-orientated society. 
By their very nature parlour games do not attract flamboyance, or even much great attention. Still, there is a bridge column in almost every American newspaper, and a chess column in many. Monopoly continues to increase upon its already incredible popularity and along with Scrabble have become so successful that one loses sight of the fact that they bear trade names. Even backgammon is onceagaina popular game, not merely a decoration on the flip side of a game board. 
The volumes and volumes that heve been written about parlour games <there is even a semi-best seller out on Monopoly strategy) are testament to the fact that they are equally part of our culture as football and baseball have become, only in a subtle manner. The game of chess, with an ever-growing number of followers, has become a dominating factor in the rise of the in­tellectual sport. 
Card games like bridge, hearts and spades, have always been renown around college campuses. "Penny-a-point Poker" is a mainstay of dorm or off-<!ampus life. But chess is different. Until onlya few years ago, it was regarded mostly as a game for intellectuals or psuedo-intellectuals. This trend has changed. 
Since the world-famous Bobby Fischer-
Boris Spassky tournament of a few years ago, the game has undergone a change in relevance and position. 
The dusty onyx chess set which for years 
fr. bill toohey 
I'll get the name-dropping out of the way at once. Last Friday night l was with Bob Hope. We were guests of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. Actually, Hope was the main attraction; I was sort of a token representative from thP university. 
At the taiHmd of the program they threw a few minutes at me, with one of those "And-no·w-for-a-few-words -from-Father" introductions. I can't say 1 made the best of it. But at least I resisted the temptation to take a pot-shot at super-hawk Hope, and, instead, tried to say a few things to the alumni about one of the trickiest of challenges -emancipation. 
It's tough for all of us -parents, lovers, friends -to emancipate; to respect the uniqueness of another, to let go of the 
control we seem to thirst for over each other. Some parents, for example, can't resist the tern ptation to raise their children like 
hothouse plants. They press a son or daughter into activities, studies, careers, behavior, which are more for their own gratification than the child's. Because some parents isolate a child from everyday problems, responsibilities and decisions, they ihhibit and stifle their natural curiosity and impulses to explore the world around them -they create fear of failure and other people's opinion. Such parents far from rearing well-adjusted children, are more likely to turn out indecisive, uncertain, fearful, unresourceful men and women who are easily bowled over by day-to-day oc­currences in which the rest of the world, unlike mom and dad, are not their slaves. Recently, a student stopped by and said: "I should drop out of premed. I know it, my profs know, everybody knows it. But my father told me, 'You drop out and I'll cut off your financial support. I sent you to Notre Dame because I want you to become a doctor.' " That , I submit, is an act of 
violence. 
The pressure from parents, the job 
market and the whole screwed-up notion of 
what it means to be truly successful, have 
helped to make students more grade-
conscious than I can ever remember. It 
really takes a toll. Many students get 
caught up in the competitive bag, a 
sometimes vicious dog-eat-dog battle for 
sick superiority. 
I was speaking with a young woman the 
other day, who was anguishing over the fact 
that she had just flunked an exam. Un­
fortunately, she was seeing a clear con­
nection between failing a test and being a 
failure as a person. As she talked it out, it Irealized it last night when I was correcting a appeared that she had been significantly paper he had handed in some time ago. influenced by her professor, who kept in-That really hit me. I thought back to the day sisting, "Remember, grades are the most after he was killed. I came into class; important thing of all!" A teacher like that didn't even know him enough to make the is a true menace on this campus. connection. I didn't make any comment; Frequently, their type looks at education as 1 1 didn't offer a prayer or anything. How indoctrination: rewarding students with insensitive you must have thoUJdlt I was. 
~a~ merely a conversat.ion piece in the 

1 sittmg room, became a diyersiOn. for som~ of "above-a.verage-or-Just-trymg-to-be older ty~s, while at college. campuses, th.e inexpensive, po~table plastic set made It possible for a wider range of people to get involved with the game. 
A university is an excellent environment for a game <or anything else) to spread. Within a small sector of a dorm, there is likely to be one person who owns a board and peices, who will then introduce the game to a roomate or friend, who then becomes involved and a routine follows. 
Around Notre Dame, there seems to be a variety of 1chess, players, with about four different basic characteristics: 
1) Genus humanus: This type is very serious about his game (or her game but this is very rare) : knows the name of all the opening moves and all that type of stuff. He definitely entered the Observer chess tournament. 

· 2) Fecundus Primus: This person plays very well, but has never really studied the game very much; plays when he wants to tone down his mind a little to semi-active after a ling night of mental and or physical strain. Afterwards he tones down his mind to non-active by reading a dirty book or magazine or by talking to girls guys. He might have entered the Observer chess tournament. 
3) Humanus Non-Descriptus : This type does not play too well, but has interest in the game. Sometimes he plays when he is drunk. A Genus Humanus would h_ave fun watching two of these play. (Note a Fecundus Primus might have some of these characteristics.) 
grades for satisfactorily answering a series of questions, and or preparmg them to fit into present' society (without ever being concerned about improving it), equipped to achieve the ultimate -material success and "good old suburban peace." 
It's sad to see what all the forces of un­freedom do to us. We tend to forget about, or don't have time for, the beautiful possibilities for relationships and cultural experiences. As a student I would be tempted not to emancipate your from having to keep up with me and my nifty GPA; thus I don't free you for other lear­nign experiences that are truly supportive to auth~ntic human growth. Like lectures, discussion programs in dorms, a week-end retreat, personal reading, conversations with friends, a visit to the student show in the Art Galley, etc. 
The other day a student mentioned, "you 

know' lots .0~ times there are things on s a n ana-s m a 
campus mmistry that seem well worth reading. But I seldom have time. That bothers me; and I'm beginning to wonder if that doesn't say something important about my life." I had to admit to him how similarly I felt about myself. We all seem so unemancipated from various pressures that prevent us from enjoying the richness of life. I have a good friend who keeps saying, "Take your damn watch off for a day, will yo, and allow a breath of spon­taneity into your dusty, overly-regulated 
life And, sorry to report, I can't do it. I might miss an appointment or a meeting or some such epic event. 
About a month ago, a friend from town attempted a surprise birthday party for one of the Holy Cross priests. After repeated efforts to find a time when a small group of his friends could get together, she called and exclaimed: "What's with you guys, anyway? You're all so busy! Don't you believe it's important to sacrifice your fetish for work in order to take time to 
celebrate a birthday with someone you say 
you care for?" 
So, we all need to be emancipated from whatever pressures keep us back from the fullness of life God meant us to experience. I know a prof who discovered in an un­forgettable way how he · needed to be .emancipated . One of his students told me 
the story. 
It happended shortly after Robert 
Rieman's tragic death earlier this year. 
The prof came into class and announced: 
·'I am really shattered. As you know, Bob 
Rieman was in this class. But I only 


leo hansen 

-* 
I've really learned something from this. Mayday and spend it with people, spend it How can we let ourselves get so caught up in anyway that honestly seems right for us.
1 

' getting class material covered,' or what This suggestion is for all. It needs to in­ever, that we never come to know one Ielude, I believe, Fr. Hesburgh and all ad­another · that one of us is taken away in ministratiors, the faculty and staff ( and death and we can carry on as usual the their families) and the entire student body. ve4ry next day. I know I never want that tho Why not a picnic in the early evening, like happen again." at the beginning of the year'? It seems to me 
I really admire that man for what he said; there are all kinds of possibilities, just as and hope, somehow, we can all come to a ling as we preserve the spirit of eman­similar discovery, For all of these reasons, cipation. It shouldn't be a repeat of An I propose we declare May 1st EMAN-Tostal; it should, rather, be a day to "shut CIPATION DAY. Why don't we all stop down" and turn off the pressure cooker; a doing busy, high-pressure, super-utilitarian i day to let go and let be what will. things, and , instead, spend the day free Please don't discuss this, SLC. It would from class, desks, meetings, deadlines, never out of committee. It's far too im­exams appointments? Let's take that practical. Let's just do it! 

f II 
4) Snakus Mischevus op­ponent partner is female. A typical game goes very, very slow and possibly is never finished. Players usually are drinking (wine, maybe a vodka and lime) while they play, with mellow music in the background. 
A Snakus Mischevus usually doesn't have too much chess on his mind while he plays the game. 
There is no archetypal hero of chess, perhaps that is the reason for the diversity among Domer chess players . 
Bobby Fischer is not exactly what one calls a hero type, or even a sought-after personality. At most he reminds one of a brattish little "Poindexter" type who never really matured as well as his mind. In fact 
With a significantly smaller band and a considerably different approach to his style, Carlos Santana and the New Santana Band gave the few fans that showed up last Friday one excellent performance. Carlos demonstrably led' his five sidemen through twelve lengt'hy renditions of many of their popular but dated material. The opener was "Incident at Neshabur" and was done well but with not much enthusiasm,as Carlos joked · with stage hands, simply waiting for his moments to punctuate the all too familiar rhythms, The small crowd, approximated at 4500, none-fhe-less soon realized the apparent change in Carlos' approach and lept to their feet in applause. 
Carlos continued to smash them over the heads, playing such oldies as "Black Magic 
Woman," . "Gypsy Queen," and "Oya Coma Va." All were executed with very little variation from their original form, but were further embellished by Carlos San­tana's much wider knowledge of the electric 1 guitar, and by Tom Coster's thick layering I and Moog synthesizing. The other mem­bers, Armando Peraza (congas), Leon ! Patillo<vocals), Ndugu (percussion), and ! Dave Brown (bass) also added their own 
I 

fresh interpretations to these rock "an­tiques." 1 
As the crowd tired from their passionate appreciation of these "rockers" they relaxed a bit, and it was then that Carlos let loose with the newer material. However, he carefully avoided the problems and mistakes he had had her~ two years ago and therefore played only those new tunes which equalled, or surpassed, the old stuff in acrylic bliss. The first of these was "Mirage"; the weakest from Santana's 
but different 


bill smith 
' newest Borboletta. Although rendered expertly, it obviously ,lacked the internal strength that much of hfs .Jater recordings have, and much of his earlier works haven't Following "Mirage" came an electric instrumental, which explored the depths of 1 Coster's moog and the indescribable efforts by Ndugu, Santana's tour drummer, who had to double-up on timbales as well as drums. Never have I seen a drummer play 
, . us really a gl<>mour sport. Boris Spassky is a Russian. Nobody likes him. 
Still, the games , survives, and survives very well. No longer is it a-game for old men to play in the park <like it's much simplercounterpart checkers). 
Two college students lying on the lawn playing a game of chess would have been stereotyped as worms having crawled out from their books. But not today. The average student is no longer either a fock or intellectual, but rather a mingling of the two. Except for the Snakus Mischevus who is distinct. He is, indeed, checkmated. 
with as much simultaneous strength, as there was never any noticeable timbale-to­drum transition. Armando Peraza's frantic, and at times furious, conga work also helped to cover up the void left by Chepito Areas <timbales and bongos) ab­scence. 
After a couple more from Borboletta, "One with the Sun" and "Give and Take," Carlos went back again to the basics and killed the duds with a very mellow "Samba Pa ti". Hanging • onto -notes like they were infinite by design, Carlos had finally slowed the pede down and was at last "getting into" the concert himself. He jumped, pointed, bent, and directed the bandthrough ablu r of solos and duets ·that were incorPOrated into such favorites as "A Toussaint 'Overture" and "Savor Jingo.'' 
1'Qe encore was truly the topper of the lt!Vening For the firs• time since the Woodstock era,. the Santana band performed their largest selling single, "Soul Sacrifice'."Although rearranged and a bit raucous in its new form, "Soul Sacrifice" was still the same old .+"Soul Sacrifice". But it was good to hear the fans once again clapping in; rhythmic unison · once again appreciating· that latin-Hardened rock and roll that made Carlos Santana and the Santana Band famous. 


the observer Monday, April 21, 1975
6 

BUSINESS j

Revisions· seen for SMC magazine 

OPPORTUNITY ' 
_f 






CAMPUS 
VIEW ONE AND TWO BEDROOM FURNISHED APARTMENTS 
ic  2  TENNIS  COURTS  TO  BE  
I  COMPLETED  THIS  SUMMER  
.il  COMMUNITY BUILDING  
il  INDOOR SWIMMING POOL  
il,  BASKETBALL COURT  
il  siiAG CARPET  
il  Z BATHS IN 2 BEDROOM APT  
ALL APPUANCES COLOR  
COORDINATED'  
SECURITY.  
SOUND CONDITIONED.  
ir  PRIVACY  _  

Morrissey Loan Fund has issued loans totaling $107,000. Of these lo~ns, $15,000 remain to be paid. Erickson stressed that, "it will help students in future years if this 
is repaid." 

Students can repay their loans by either check or cash between 
11:15 a.m. and 12:15 p.m. If a student cannot come in at this time, he or she should call E"nckso.n at either 3687 or 7442 and other arrangements will be made. 
''Gatta 
eJ~B" 

''('hlmes~" the Saint Mary's whether to publish once, or both U>llege Literary magazine, will semesters, but we've found that by underg~ several change~ next year 
publishing in the spring Iwe had a accordmg to new editor Jane much larger selection of better Cannon, a junior English major. quality work," Cannon said. One of the major decisions to be In the area of production, made is on the number of issues Cannon announced that the 
put out. "We haven't decided deadlines will be more firmly 
•

Escort serv1ce to begin 
established so there will be more time to evaluate the material under consideration for publication. She also hopes to revise the process of selecting manuscripts by assigning each 
category to a certain group of reviewers. This would enable the staff to make comments and suggestions on all returned material. 
Cannon said that although "Chimes" receives a good amount lot of the students hesitate to submit their work but we'd like to consider\it. It is our policy not to accept anonymous manuscripts but we will publish a pseudonym upon request," she commented. 
Anyone interested in submittingwork shoudl bring it to the "Chimes" office located in room it. 124 Madeleva. 
Students 
Good Potential Income No Age Barrier Full or Part Time Contact D. A. Doxie 503 N. Blaine Ave. South Bend, 1 N 
(219) 234-4469 


Faculty 

of fiction, she would like to have more non-fiction and original translations of foreign language poetry. "We'd also welcome 
· faculty work in any category. We'd like to see an ample represen­tation in each area," she stated. 
Another area lacking in material is artwork. The staff would like to see more art students send in their 
, work. One plan calls for art students to illustrate specific stories and poems. Photography is also greatly in demand. 
Cannon hopes that more students will submit work. "We know that a 
Payments due for Morrissey loans 
by Fred Herbst Staff Reporter 
Senior Class President Greg Erickson yesterday announced that today and tomorrow will be the last days to repay any loans obtained from the Morrissey Loan Fund. 
Any loan that has not been repaid by Tuesday will be turned over to Student Accounts for collection. If this is the case, students will be charged a penalty fee. .... 
Seniors who have not repaid loans will not be allowed to graduate. Any underclassmen not repaying a loan will lose his or her loan priveleges. 
Ov~r the past year, the 
Classical Music Enthusiasts: WSND-FM , the Fine Arts Voice of Notre Dame, has openings for announcers for next fall. 

Meeting for all those interested Wed April 23, 7 p.m. 361 O'Shaughnessy 
available April 18-27 an lp recording of 
SCOTT JOPLIN RAGS 

performed by William Cerny chairman NO Music Dept. 
proceeds to The Music Scholarship Fund 
on sale at the Huddle in residence halls in 248 O'Shag for $4 

Have we got a t»B lor you 
You may not have a job right now, but cJOB, that French 
Cigarette Paper Company. is making an offer you won't want 
to resist. 
We've put together a kit containing four of our favorite cJOB papers. For $1. you'll receive one pack each of our two. one lick. no mess double wide papers: White and Strawberry. And for you die-hard, traditionalist. single paper rollers, a pack of cJOB Wheat Straws and a pack of cJOB 55's white. 


---~~..~!!r:!~.!Jo<!~.,
Y 
2831111. Sholliold • Chlcago,IUinois 80857 I certify that I am over 21 years of age. •o •end me mycJOBSample Kit. I enclose my check or money order for $1 to cover co•I. po•lage and han­dling. Name ___________
_ 
Addreo.L.___________ 
Clty/Stat..___________ 
Zlp•----------­
Only one 1ample to a family, plea••· Allow four 
weeka for dellvery. Offer good only whlle 
oupply laoto. 
The Student Escort Service will commence operation tonight between the hours of 8:00 and 12:00 
p.m. Escorts will leave every fifteen minutes from the rotating doors of the library and the bus station, according to Rich Morton, director of the service. Girls in­terested in being escorted to the library or the bus station should wait by the phones of their respective halls. All of the sixty to sixty-five male escorts will carry identification cards when on duty and will be required to present them even without request of the escortee. 

Morton would also like all members of the escort service to attend an important meeting tonight in the La Fortune 
Ballroom. Schedules and I .D. cards will be handed out. 
Morton expects the service to run smoothly and would like to ~~ank the.Notre Dame Karate Club 
for, assistance and v,~lunteers they ve extneded so far. 

BPnd has provided three new Vegas for three illustrious Notre Damt• sPniors to use for the remainder of the year. This is a courtesy t•xtPnded by the company to the former SBP Pat Laughlin. formt•r Ombudsman Director Bill McLean, and former Nazz Director Ralph Penino. 
(l. 
\\'ht•t·e t•nuld I get hold of a pair of lock-cutters to get a lock off a trunk'? 

A. 
If lhP maintenance man in your hall doesn't have a pair, St•curity has somP that they will let you use. 

Q. 
Who should I contact to play at the Nazz next year? 

A. 
To play or to work at next year's Nazz, one should contact next year's director Denis "Dofo" O'Brien at 1352. 

Q. 
Does the Placement Bureau help find summer jobs? 

A. 
YPs, they can help find jobs here in South Bend and throughout the country. They have applications in the office which is located in room 213 of the Administration Building and is open Monday through Friday, 8:00a.m. to 5:00p.m. 

Q. 
What is the story behind the new Vegas being driven by some of tht• people in the Student Government? 

A. 
As part of a promotional campaign, Gates Chevrolet of South 



NOW RENTING FOR FALL SEMESTER.' . 
•( '7·5 -'76 SCHOOL YEAR ) 
I . 
campus view 

A N~W APARTMENT COM­
MUNITY DEVEl-OPED ;FOR 
. . 

THE STUDENTS, OF NOTRE 
DAME " SAINr: MARY'S. CAMPUS I VIEW IS SET 'IN A WOODED 
SURROUNDING·~ IS <fiLY 
3 BLOCKS J'RO~ NVrRE DAJI.~~· 
LOCATED·rusT olad ·BLOCK 
. ' I 

NORTH OF,$TATS Bl>. J3 OJ'F C1l' WILLIS"RD. 
I·.......~Q ~ .R~NrAI. .INfO·RM~J.lO~ .,.P~NE ~72..1~-~-··....llllii!illllt ...... BROUGHT To You FROM FRANCE BY ADAMs ~~PL·E·D·I~T: ~~·: ~~~~~~o.••••.. 
,_Mo_nday, April 21, 1975 the o_bserver~ 

To Thailand 

• ATTENTION •


Cambc)dians flee 
BANGKOK (UPI) -Troops an sources said Long Boret, of Cambodia's defeated govern-who took over command when ment fled across the border President Lon Nol left for self­
COLLEGE STUDENTS into Thailand aboard armored imposed exile, apparently personnel carriers Sunday, . missed the last helicopter out of touching off a battle of words Phnom Penh before the Khmer between Thai border guards ' . Rouge took over the capital. 
ABOUT TO GRADUATE? and pro-Communist Khmer , Sunday's confrontation took Rouge rebels, reports rea<:hing place near Pailin, a Cambodian here said Sunday. border town about 250 miles 
The troops were the latest of southeast of Bangkok. Reports more than 10,000 Cambodians to reaching here said the fleeing 
Today's Army has programs
seek refuge in Thailand as the government troops, pursued by Khmer Rouge swept aeross the Khmer Rouge, crossed into Cambodia in recent weeks and Thailand with four armored finally into power in Phnom personnel carriers. 
iust for you.
Penh Thursday. Khmer Rouge troops con-
There were no reports Sun--fronted Thai border guards and day from Phnom Penh itself as demanded return of the govern­to events there. Phnom Penh ment troops. The Thai border 

STRIPES FOR EDUCATION 
radio has been silent since just guards refused. after the fall, and other radio The reports said the Khmer 
rewards you for the education
reports have been spotty and Rouge then set up loudspeakers vague. just across the border to 
you have
The fate of Cambodian Prime broadcast demands to the Thais 
Mini~ter Long Boret als? to send the Cambodian troops
remamed a mystery .. Cambodi-back. Apparently the Thai 
police said a decision to return
Hesburgh nalned '.hem would have. to be made by 


PROJECT AHEAD
the government m Bangkok. 
1• • j .J The Thai government has 
re lglOUS eac.1er tried to seal the border to 
helps finance your continued educa·t ~·on
fleeing Cambodians, but with little apparent success. (continued from page 3) 
Thai Prime Minister Kukrit said. "A big chunk" of the 8600 Pramoj · has said the Cambodi­
who were convicted in federal an refugees would be allowed to 
courts and sentenced to prison stay in Thailand no longer than 

STRIPES FOR SKILLS 
have been pardoned as well a 30 days, or until the situation in "fairly good chunk" --aboult fifty Cambodia has been clarified. 
offers a job where you don't 
percent--of those who went AWOL 
and were never caught. 
start at the bottom. .
He was more critical of a third 
STEWART 
program designed to reach "a 
small group who got into trouble 

MCGUIRE 
TALK TO THE ARMY REPRESENTATIVES
with the draft and disappeared
before any case reached the 
courts." These men must work 


SHOES 

WHEN THEY VISIT SAINT MARY'S
throught the Attorney General's 
With the Spring
office to receive a pardo111 and 
according to Hesburgh "am­
Step cushion 


CAMPUS APRIL 22 
biguities in explaining the 
program" have hampered its lDAD & FAMILY 
effectiveness. 
503 N. Blaine Ave. 
FOR MORE INFO CALL 284·4431
About 200,000 men were in 
trouble with the draft by So. Bend 234-4469 
_ •• -·...... J
Hesburgh 's estimation and 
"nearly everyone was elibible for the pardon programs. Only about 15,000 left the country, a relatively small group though it has been played up in the press."
4 


The Glenmary Home Mission­ers are looking for me1n and women who believe in p1eople. Share yourself with the people of the South and Appallachia as a Priest, Brother or Sister. 
0 Send free 17" x 22" poster, 
shown above 0 Please send information 
about Glenmary Hom1e 
Missioners 

GLENMARV, Room #41 Box 46404, Cincinnati, Ohio 45242 
Name_________________ 
Address_______________ 
City______Zip____ 
Age_____ 
Phone______ 







CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Need 2 housemates for next year. Good house. Call Frank, 234-6535. 
Men & Women: earn $150 per week or more selling Valeer Home Care Products in the South Bend area. Can continue part-time next fall. Training provided in the Hostess Party and Solicitation sales programs. Call afternoons, except Mondays, or call Saturday mor­nings. Thomas Distributing, 256­0547. 
Need ride to Detroit May 2. Cail1132. FOR SALE Bicycle, 24", $15. Call Walt, 3108, after 11 :30 pm. 
Garrard SLX-3 turntable with Shure cartridge, $75. Steve, 8683. 
Bar refrigerator: excellent con­dition. Wood grain exterior. Phone 255-8027. $60. 
2 Ar-6 8" 2-way speakers. 115-best offer. CaII 6801. 
Olds Cutlass '67, small engine, good mileage, 8-track tape, $500. New Remington 12-gauge pump magnum, $120. Call 284-4008, 234­8679. 
Like new Wilson Walker Cup golf set. 4 irons, 2 woods, putter, golden bear bag. 1534. 
Stereo -Panasonlc -quadrophonlc model, AM-FM radio-bought 1 year ago. Excellent condition, $145. Liz, 4798. 
NOTICES 

House painting by two experienced graduates. Reasonable prices. Call 234-1889 for free estimate. 
Now renting: Campus View Apartments. Still some choice 1 and 2 bedroom apartments available. Call 272-1441 for information or stop over and see the model apartment at 54585 Irish Way. 
Always the best In gas sales and mechanical work now at Tom's University Standard, corner of Ironwood and State Rd. 23. 10 per­cent discount to NO & SMC students on all purchases except gas. 
All Morrissey Loans must be paid by Mon., April 21. 11:15 to 12:15 dally. 
SHARE hotline. Phone· 4311. 8-12 nightly. Completely confidential. 
Men and Women with two years of college left! Want to Invest six weeks this summer and assure yourself a second career as an Army Officer upon graduation? Earn approximately $500 this summer and gain self-confidence! No obligation. For information contact CPT Weimer at 283-6265 about Army ROTC Basic Camp. 
Typing: experienced in senior essays, dissertations, etc. Reasonable, accurate. 232-5715. 
New York Met. Club baggage truck to L.I.-NYC: call 3007 or 1986 for information. 
Handmade turquoise jewelry from Santa Fe -just above wholesale prices . no middlemen. Call 287-0076 after 7. 
The Frontier Drive-In Is now open. Located on State Rd. 23 between Kroger's and The Distillery. Good food at reasonable prices. 
Will do typing, experienc:ed, themes, etc. Call 233-8512. 
Robin  Trower  &  John  Mayall  in  
concert  at  Wings  Stadium  In  
Kalamazoo, Tuesday, Aprlll  22  at  

8:00 pm. Tickets now at Student Union Ticket Office and Boogie Records. A Bamboo Production. 
Students for light office work and telephone sales, salary and com­mission. Apply 224 W. Jefferson, corner of Lafayette St. Room 313. 
Students for light delivery. Ex­cellent pay. A.A.A. Advertising. Apply 224 W. Jefferson, corner of Lafayette St. Room 313. 
Management Trnlnee 
To $14,000 Ready for a new career? We are Interviewing for a management training program that will allow you to earn $25,000 or moro In 5 yurs while representing our top team of financial specialists In Equities, Insurance, Mortgages, and Tax Shelters. Send your resume' to Charles M. Newbanks 120 W. LaSalle Suite 906 
South Bend, IN <16601 
....,;;;jijjjjjiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii:;.-;;..;:-,;;;;;;;;;,:;----. 
RIDE-A-BIKE FOR THE RETARDED: on Sunday, April 27th. 
Need help with term papers, reports, etc? Write Michlana Reference Service for rates and details. P.O. Box 6247, South Bend, IN, 46615. 
FOR RENT 
House for rent for summer: 4 bedroom, excellent location. 287­7981. 
Summer storage, dry cleaning, safe, reasonable rates, pick up and deliver at dorm. Call Mrs. Cooper, 272-3004. 
Three bedroom house close to NO, May 15 to Aug. 15. Carpeted and paneled living room . complete kitchen -washer and dryer, all utilities included, $150 per month. Call Mrs. Cooper, 272-3004. 
Furnished apt., 503 W. Jefferson duplex, 3 rooms, second floor. Gas heat furnished. 289-6307 or 234-0596. 
2 rooms, private. $50. K ltchen, rides. 233-1329. 
Summer or winter students, 4 bedroom house fully furnished. Washer and dryer, equipped with burglar alarm system. Free trash removal. Call Charles Moore, 232· 7180 after 4:30 pm. 
All private 3 rooms up for married graduate student. All utilities. Near Memorial Hospital. No rer.t in return for aIding parents to help lift lightweight son and daughter to and from wheelchairs, etc. No nursing. 232-9128. 
Summer Rental: furnished apart­ment, air conditioning, carpeting, dishwasher. 10 mlns walk to NO. Chris, 277-0953. 
Houses near campus for summer. Rent low and negotiable. Ideal for summer school student(sl or anyone staying for the summer. Phone Marty Quirk at 289-3751. 
Furnished: house and apartments and small house near NO. Summer only. 272-6174. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found: brown.rlmmed glasses behind Nieuwlend. Call Charlie, 1722• 
Lost: car keys -SMC picnic Thur­sday. Call Fritz Bruenln~;, 8954. Reward. 
Lost: pair of Adldas sneakers (white with black stripes) Saturday at 4th floor Keenan party. George, 3365. 
PERSONALS 
Wanted: experienced arm-wrestler; 
· must have 16-inch biceps (or morel. I'm Mary Please give 161!2 hours notice. 
ldentlfique Ia cenclon y ganase un boleto pa'ver a gloria. Happy Bir­thday Pedro. 
Megan: Where were you Thursday. I warned you. 
David, did you like AT? 
SING Happy Birthday to Mona T. Call 1326 at B.P. The greatest girl you'll ever see. Much love from me. 
Happy day, MA 
I get down on my knee, And say Happy Birthday, Mona Tee, The greatest roomie to mee, And a great Wild Ladee 
Batman 
Well wishers welcome. Call Tim, 3584. Happy B-day. 
Stick it to Puntarelll. Happy bir­' thday. 
To Adam: Merry BirthdayI Your friendly ne,~ ··,ood invader 
Phyllis (Mad-Dog) Mosl ~.:5yS thank you to all her loyal SUIJ, '-'' ~ers for UMOC. Number 1 next year. 
Dear Maryann Hayes (y•:s, your full name In print): IThank you so much for your 
exquisite artifact. Have made 1: intoia Geek-mobile and It sways with .every breeze. 
High In Pangbornia 

Observer Classlfieds Get Results. 

liiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiili..----......---" 
..;. 

the observer Monday, April 21, 1975 
Wolfe's no-hitter blanks Butler 
Stoltzs 2-hitter in 2nd game completes sweep:'Irish win 3 out of 4 over the weekend 
by Rich Odioso drive and in the sixth when Pat After Friday's single game at Coleman at third snared another Illinois State was rained out, the Don Wolfe's parents and family line shot. Irish split with the Redbirds came all the way from Fairlawn, The victory was never in doubt Saturday losing 6-2 before winning New Jersey for a Notre Dame as Butler starter Dan Quale behind Bob Stratta 2-1. Bob 
weekend. The freshman left­walked the first four men he faced. Hughes pitched well in the opener

thander responded Sunday by When he finally found the range but wildness and defensive 
throwing the first Irish no-hitter in the results were even worse as mistakes put him behind 3-1 going 
37 years, as ND blanked Butler 1<Hl Mike Calloway cleared the bases into the sixth. The Redbirds then 
in the first game. Mich Stoltz then with a triple, Coleman hit a long sealed the game with three runs off 
pitched a two-hitter winning the sacrifice fly and Mike O'Neill Hughes and Stoltz. Notre Dame 
second game in eight innings, 3-2. crushed a towering homer down scored in the top of the sixth when 
Coupled with Saturday's split at the right field line for a six-run Smith hit a home run into a stiff 
Illinois State, Notre Dame is now inning. wind from left and in the seventh 
an impressive 13-6. Coleman and Galloway were when Smith singled home O'Neill. 
Lefthander Mike Mandjiak was also instrumental as the Irish The Redbirds drew first blood inthe last Irish hurler to throw a scored twice in both the third and the nightcap, scoring in the fourthhitless game, 5..0 over Chicago on fourth as each added a double and on a single, a stolen base, and twoApril 30, 1938. The gem was the 

a triple. wild pitches. The Irish came back
first on the new Cartier Field An_error, a singl~ and a double in the top of the fifth as Mark Sch­which is over ten years old and the provld':d Butle~ WI~ t~o runs on ' mitz and Stratta singled. The twosecond of Wolfe's career--he pit­Stoltz m the f1rst mmng of ~e , worked a double steal and Schmitz ched one in high school. 

s~cond game, but after that the big scored on the catcher's throwingThe mustachioed southpaw nght~hander was untouchable error. Galloway then doubledstarted by fanning the first three allow~ng only . two walks and a Ihome Stratta with what proved tomen he faced and six of the questionable h1t batsman. be the winning run. Strattaopening eight. In the conclusive 
seventh he struck out the first The Irish tied the game m the allowed only three hits and fanned 
second on Coleman's triple, five to up his record to 4-1.
batter, got the second on a fly to 

center and caught Bulldog left O'Neill's double and Stan The Irish now face their toughest 
fielder Steve Kuykendall looking at Bobowski's RBI single. ND had week of the season to date. 
a 3-2 fastball for his twelfth strong chanches to win the game in tomorrow a doubleheader at 
strikeout. Wolfe walked two and the sixth and seventh but the score Bowling Green, Wednesday a 
Dan Seefeldt reached twice on remained 2-2 until the bottom of home twinbill with powerful in­
catcher's interference. The the eighth when the Irish put men dependent Cincinnati, Friday two 
Bulldogs came close to a hit only at first and third without benefit of games at Big Ten leader Michigan 
twice in the fifth when cen­a hit. Jim Smith then bounced a and a home pair Sunday with 
terfieider Jack Snyder made a fine breaking ball up the middle for the Western Michigan. 
running catch of a sinking line . winning run. 
Injury-riddled Irish off-and-on in tliird spring ·scrimmage
*Observer 

by Ernie Torriero test was only an intersquad could only manage a· few short scrimmage. When the offense gains by running backs Rich
For a while on Saturday, a sense 
finally got out of neutral there Allocco and freshmen Steve Orsini 
of deja vu loomed over Notre 
were a lot of positive things to be and Steve Schmidtz. Quarterback
Dame Stadium. It was not a good 
seen. Joe Montana spent most of the
feeling either. The number one 
Quarterback Rick Slager opened time running for his life, as the
offense came out flat, much as it 
the afternoon by fumbling the foursome of Ivan Brown, Steve
.sports 
had against Purdue last Sep­
snap and the second-string Niehaus, Jeff Weston and Tony
tember. But unlike that game, 
defense swarmed all over the ball Zappala put a lot of pressure on
Saturday the coaches had total 
to recover it. Slager then came Montana. Tony Brantley got off
control of that variable known as 
right back to march the starting punts of 43 and 19 yards into a very
momentum because the con-
offense down to the 17, with the key stiff wind. play being a 27 yard screen pass to The starting offense was to gethalfback Mark McLane . But its first score of the day with 4:40
• the drive stalled there as Slager left in the second quarter. After overthrew split end Kevin Doherty 'Doherty was interfered with on
31 Club III WlDS Bookstore final 
at the goalline. the 2 yard line, McLane hulled his 
After the Irish retreated upfield way through the middle for the 
to regroup, Slager pitched out to tally. Reeve added the extra point 
by Rich Odloso Dubenetsky who put a super halfback Ted Burgmeier who and the offense was ahead for
1975 ALL-BOOKSTORE TEAM
defense effort on Billy Paterno. pulled up to throw the option pass. good, 7-6.Tom Clements is also known as "Apple" was forced to shoot off­Mike Bonifer, 31 Club III (1973& But the ball slithered from his The offense then began clicking, "T.C." and those initials might balance throughout the contest and 1974 st-lection ) fingers and was picked off by as the running of Best, Kornman
also might stand for Takes 

hit only 3 of 15 shots. lineman Don Malinak who and McLane, coupled with the pass Command. That's exactly what Ted Slaughter, Bred Flows returned it 40 yards for the score. receiving of tight end KenClements did as he led a second AVERAGE WHITE -Paterno 3, Suddenly the defense was ahead, 6-MacAfee, wore down the secondhalf rally that carried 31 Club to Horton 1, Pohlen 3, Doherty 7, Tom Ritter, Hack, Inc. 0972 o. team defense. McLane scoredtheir second Bookstore title in Banks 4 -18 of 60 (30 percent), 34 selection) Following that mishap, to add twice more from three and ten
three years, a 21-18 win over the 

rebounds <Pohlen 13, Paterno 10), insult to injury , strong safety Mike yards, Slager hit MacAfee on a
Pat Lally, Vermin III
Average White Team. 8 assists <Paterno 3, Doherty 3). Banks stole a Rick Slager pass at fourth down pass in the end zoneWith a huge crowd looking on midfield. At this point, things were for another and Burgmeier ran a
Paul Martin, Goat Ropers
from every available nook and 

looking hopeless. screen pass in from the 11 to
31 CLUB III -Bonifer 1, 1 
cranny, Kt-vin Doherty led But on the next series of plays, 1 complete the scoring for the first
Dubenetzsky 4, Sylvester 6,
Average White to an 11-8 halftime Mr. Bookstore (spirit & hustle) -the hard running of Art Best, Russ stringers.
lead. Although Doherty and Mike Clements 8, Schickel 1 -20 of 53 (38 Norb Schickel 31 Club III Kornman, and Mark McLane got 
The second team offense alsopercent), 35 rebounds <Sylvester

Banks hit some nice hoops in the the offense in gear. The drive posted some moments of
13, Bonifer 10), 6 assists <Clements belonged to Clements who hit a -Dan McCarty, Bred Flows 
second half, the rest of the game Golden Hatchet <physical defense) eventually broke down at the 15 brilliance. Montana found tight
5). and Dave Reeve's field goal at­end Doug Buth in the end zone for a
series of descrit>tion·-defying shots tempt, through the swirling winds, score iate in the scrimmage. Steve 
to secure the title. As expected Clements was Rag Award (referee baiting) -Gus fell short. 
Orsini showed promise as a run­Further aiding the 31 Club effort named Tournament MVP. Here is Buhrlage, Heils' Hoops The number two offense then ner, as he broke for two long gains, were big Steve Sylvester who : a list of the other awards (varsity took to the field in an attempt to with his run of 30 yards being thecleared 13 rebounds and scored 1 football and basketball players are Hoosier Award <gunning)-Jimmy 

penetrate the always tough longest on the day.
well in the first half and John , not eligible) : Ryan, Bred Flows starting defense. But the offense There were only two serious 
BILL PATERNO had a lot of trouble against 31 Club Ill's tough J ... but Tom Clements was able to work for 8 baskets to lead 31 Club Ill r with the annual Blue-Gold charity defense ... to the Bookstore title. (Photos by Ed Brower) 
game. 










