A grateful Ford leaves 
Hesburgh pleased with welcome 
by Pat llanifin 
Campus Editor 
Dt>eming President Ford's speech a "commitment" to Aml:'rica 's world responsibilities which "bodes well for the future" regarding foreign aid to needy nations, l<'r. Theodore M. Hesburgh, University president, yesterday said that tbe President's visit went "very wdl." lll:'sburgh also stated he was helping set up a "global action lobby" bringing together workers on world pl:'ace. disarmament and hunger. 
Ht-sburgh publicly thanked· the University com­munity in a letter published in today's paper for the recl:'ption it gave Ford. "I would like to add my word of thanks to his I Ford's) for all that so many of you did to make this a day which he says he will long remeJll­ber ... '' One student who met Hesburgh after he left the reception at the CCE Monday evening called him "positiv.ely l:'Uphoric." 
Praist>s Fot·d Spt>ech 
Ht•sburgh praised For's speech for "re-affirming the philosophy and principle of foreign aid, something which needs doing at a time when many people want us to retire from the world and something which Ford has not done since he became President. I expect it will be a speech that will be reprinted often in years to come." 


Ford was "extremely impressed by the reception the students and other members of the University com­munity gave him and returned home with uplifted spirits," Hesburgh said. 
"The President did not even notice the walkout," Hesburgh commented, "and did not hear about it till Prof. Walshe mentioned it at the reception." Ford's reply was that he understood the protesters' views. 
Govt>rnnwnt-tlnivt>rsity links 
The presidential visit was particularly successful in helping to create links between the government and the universities, Hesburgh commented. "After the President left I talked to the head of the American Council of Education who said the meeting was very important for relations between the institutions in general. He said other universities were watching what went on here since the government and universities have been cut off from each other for ten years." 
During Ford's visit he and Hesburgh discussed the financial burdens on universities today. "I mentioned that the University fuel bill here is up a million dollars over last year." Hesburgh said, "and we talked about other matters of intere!;lt to the academic community at large." The PrPsident was "sympathetic and ur•­
ll'tmt imn•d nn pa~· ·:!I 

university of notre dame st. mary's college Vol. IX, No. 104 Wednesday, March 19, 1975 Terry Keeney Tom Drape 
Ne'W editorial board changes after break 
BPginning after semester break, the new editorial board will assume responsibility for the publication of the Observer. 
Replacing senior Tom Drape as editor-in-chief is Terry Keeney, a junior government major from Kensington, Maryland. Drape has served as editor-in-chief since last March and is stepping down due to graduation. 
AI Rutherford, a junior business major from Madison, New Jersey, will continue in his present position as managing editor. Rutherford assumed the position in February. 
Fred Graver, a junior from Palos Park, Illinois, is stepping down as editorial editor. He will now serve as executive editor. Heplacing Graver will be Jim Eder, a junior from Chicago, Illinois. Eder served as a contributing editor during the past vear. · Ken Girouard, a sophomore from Louisville, Kentucky, who has served as day editor and copy reader this year, has already begun his duties as news editor, replacing Keeney. 
A new position on the editorial board has been created this year. The position of campus editor has been filled by Pat Hanifin, a sophomore from Honolulu, Hawaii. Hanifin, who served as a copy reader last year, began his duties two weeks ago. 
Robert Baker, a junior from Alexandria, Louisiana, will be replaced as features editor by Tom O'Neil, a sophomore from Cleveland, Ohio. O'Neil served as Wednesday night editor and reporter during the past year. 
Next year's sports department will be under the direction of Bill Brink, a junior from Westport, Connecticut. He will replace Greg Corgan. a senior from Wyckoff, New Jersey, Brink held a position on this year's editorial board as senior night editor. 
Ken Bradford, a staff reporter and copy reader from South Bend, will take the post of copy editor. Bradford replaces Jeanne Murphy, who is stepping down due to graduation. 
Mary Janca, junior from Chicago, Illinois, will continue next year in her present position as St. Mary's editor. Chris Smith will continue as photo editor. He came to this position at the beginning of the present semester. 

In SMC voting; new student officials elected 

Light turnout • 
by Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor 
Joan McDermott, Joanie Durlacher and Mary Lu Bilek were elected as student body president and vice presidents for academic affairs and student affairs, respectively, yesterday in an uncontested election in which lightly more than 15 percent of the students voted, announced Election Commissioner Katie 
Kearney last night. 
A total of 252 ballots were cast. 214 students voted for the single ticket, while 16 voted against it. 19 abstentions were recorded and two votes were invalidated as poll workers failed to authorize the ballots with their initials. 
Joanne Garrett, retiring legislative commissioner, stated that McDermott, Durlacher and Bilek will begin their term on April 1, immediately after spring break. 
Both Garrett and McDermott stated that they were "extremely 

An Open Letter ... 
To the Notre Dame Community: . 
I have just seen the President off for Washington after his twelve hour visit to Notre Dame. As he left, his last wish was to tell all of you how much he appreciated this day he spent with us. I suppose no man on earth has more problems and more pressing burdens. However, he wanted me to tell all of you that this was one of the greatest days in his life and that the courtesy and welcome that so many of you showed to him during this day greatly lifted his spirits and sent him back to Washington with greater determination to work for peace and justice in our country and in our world. He asked me to t-xpress this somehow to all of you with hfs deepest thanks and sincere affection. It is not often that a community like ours has the opportunity to lift the spirits and lighten the burden of a person with so much responsibility and so many challenges. I would like to add my word of thanks to his for all that so many of you did to make this a day which he says he Will long remember and which certainly many of us will remember as well. I can only reaffirm my belief that, of all the possible communities of people on earth, this has to be one of the greatest and I am very grateful to all of you to be a part of it. 
All best wishes and prayers for a Happy Easter. 
Evt>r devotedly in Notre Dame, 

Father Theodore llesburgh, C.S.C. President 
Responding to comments trom faculty and students that the speech had amounted to nothing but politicking as usual Hesburgh said, "If Jesus Christ came to campus to talk talk about charity there would be some people complaining that He said nothing they hadn't already heard." 
The University president pointed to Ford's release of two million extra tons of grain over the previous allotment "when his advisors had suggested at most a million and a quarter extra tons." Hesburgh noted that "The increase is included in the budget for next year so the program will continue if Congress agrees." 
Hl:'sburgh also praised Ford's emphasis on agricultural development programs to help the poor count ires fl'ed themselves so that American aid does not become permanent or "paternalistic." 
During his speech Ford mentioned that "A factor in my decision to increase aid was your fine president, Fr. Hesburgh." 
The problem of domestic poverty came up at Ford's meeting with the visiting governors which Hesburgh sat\ in on. "The session centered on ways of improving relief to the poor and unemployed in this country and specific alternatives were discussed," Hesburgh ex­plained, but said that since he was a guest he was not free to discuss the meeting. 

disappointed" at the low turn-i>ut. 
"Past elections got larger percentages of the student body to vote," noted Garrett. "This just shows that a lot of people don't really care around here. I don't know if anyone knows what to do about it, either," she said. 
"People realized, I think, that there was no opposition in the election," said McDermott. 
The new SBP stated that when she, Durlacher and Bilek assume office, a change in student government's structure will ac­company them. 
This restructuring, proposed by Garrett earlier this semester, replaces the present four com­missioner system with a modified president-vice-presidential system. 
"With a change in structure, will come a change in roles," noted McDermott. "Because of the change in structure, we will be able to more easily split up the workload." 
McDermott said that she ex­pects many changes to come when Dr. John Duggan assumes his post as St. Mary's president. The SBP stated that she plans to work closely with him next year. 
Today's Observer is the last issue before break . 
Publications will 



resume April 2 
the observer 
world briefs 

SAIGON (UPI)-A man on a motorcycle tossed a bomb into a bus in Saigon Tuesday, wotonding eight Americans, a 
U.S. spokesman said. None was believed seriously hurt. 
The bus was traveling on a city street toward Tan Son Nhut airbase when the bomb was thrown in, the spokesman said. 
All eight persons, U.S. government contract workers, were treated at a Saigon hospital, and were in good condition, initial reports said. 
WAS_HINGTON (UPI) -·The Senate Foreign Relations Committee has recommended $155.5 million in emergency aid to Cambodia for the next three months then a cutoff of all aid to that country. 
The committee met all day Monday,then voted 9-7 to send Cambodia $82.5 million in military assistance, $57.5 million in food aid and $15.5 million in medical supplies through June 30. 
LISBON (UPI) -Portugal's leftist military government outlawed three political parties Tuesday and announced the April 12 elections for a con­stituent assembly may have to be postponed for a second time. 
Politicians called the an­
nouncement a victory for the 
official Communist party, 
which has been steadily gaining 
influence in the ruling coalition 
of military officers that over­
threw a 40-year-old rightist 
regime last year. 
ST. PAUL, Minn. (UPI)-The 
Minnesota House Commerce 
and Economic Development 
Committee came to the aid of 
ladies in distress Tuesday by 
approving a bill requiring that 
at least half of the toilets in a 
public restroom be free. 
The original bill would have 
banned all pay toilets from 
public restrooms in the state on 
the grounds they discriminate 
against women. 
GENEVA (UPI)-The United 
States and the Soviet Union 
Tuesday began the formal 
drafting of a new nuclear 
weapons treaty at the Strategic 
Arms Limitation talks. 
Chief Negotiators U. Alexis 
Johnson of the United States 
and Vladimir S. Semenov of 
Russia set up expert working 
groups to drft articles of the 
new pact. 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -A $29.2 billion tax cut bill is ikely to be rammed through the Senate in a matter of days despite a fight over whether to repeal the oil depletion allowance. 
gn campus today 
wednesday, march 19 
4:15 p.m.--seminar, "impact of multinational corporation," by prof. animesh ghoshal, board room, hayes-healy. 
4:30 
p.m.--lecture, "the effects of nutrient stress on alleiopathy and competition in digitaria sanguinalis 1," by janice perino, galvin life sci. cent. aud. 

4:30 
p.m.--lecture, "reactivity of coordinated nucleophiles", by dr. david buckingham, rm. 123 nieuwland. 

4:30 
p.m. --lecture, "summary of recent optical scattering experiments", by dr. william flygare, rm. 118 nieuwland. 


5 p.m.--vespers, evensong, log chapel. 
6:30 p.m.--meeting, sailing club, rm. 204 eng. bldg., for new members. 
7:30 p.m.--lecture, "abeland: a question about indlvl.duality" by. carl weintraub, carrol hall. 
~ ,../IJ --• • ' ~ 

, ,. 
__W_ednesday, March 19, !"975 
Hesburgh 

(l•ontimu·d from JHtgt• I) derstanding but of course he cannot make the law by himself." I h'sburgh stated that no future appointemnts for himself or other llniversitv mt>mbers were discussed.· ''Then• is nothing in mind now." he said. During l<'ord's spe<•ch the President praised IIPsburgh and sia hhe would be \"aluable in soml' ogvernment 
More award to be presented by Fisher Council 
The Fisher Hall Council will present the Thomas More Award to the member of the Notre Dame­St. Mary's community whose life best exhibits the qualities of honor and integrity. 
A seven-man student committee to select a possible recipient of the award hopes to have a nominee chosen by April 15. The entire hall will make the final decision on the award recipient at that time. 
According to Bill Gaudreau, nominating committee chairman, the recently-established award is intended to honor one of the faculty, staff, administration, or .students whose character resembles that of Thomas More. 
Gaudreau commented, "It seems especially appropriate that we be reminded of the importance of honor and integrity at this time when both virtues seem to be lacking in our national leaders." 
The prize will consist of a memorial award of Thomas More in additional to a monetary gift. BPsides Gaudreau, members of the nominating committee include Fisher Hall residents Chuch Huttinger. Jim Kelleher, Kieran Pillion, Bob Waddick, Bill Hilstrom. and Bill Ubbing. 
ERRATUM 

The March 17 OBSEHVER quoted erroneous figures in the article about financial aid at St. Mary's. The maximum SEOG allocation for a recipient is $1,000 or $4,000 for four years, not $l.!lOOOper year or $4,660 for four years as stated. Instead of $15,000, the Michiana schoarship fund contains $45,000. Day-Student grant was increased from $30,000 to $35,000, not from $5,000 to $35,000. The Middle-Income grant was increased from $11,000 to $15,000, instead of from $4,000 to $15,000. 

grateful 
position after his duties on the 

1 amnPsty board are completed. llow long that will be "depends on how long I can stand it," liPs burgh jokPd. Over 12,000 cases rt>main to be processed, the llnivt>rsity president noted, and the job is taking much more of mort> of his time than he expected whl•n he signed on. There is now somP talk of doubling the board. "WP are having a mPeting of the hoard soon to try to reduce the backload of cases," he said. "It l"Ould take the hoard two vears to finish its job but I may not ·last that long." llt>sburgh hopes to have the process institutionalized so that othPrs can handle the program so all applicants are granted am­nesty. 
Thl•re is "practically un­conditional amensty" now. comml•nted HPsburgh, for 95 percl•nt of those_ who apply. "Evt>ryone is out of jail and nearly all applicants who had any bad conduct or felony charges had thPm wiped off their records. That 
Final decision in 
Brainstorm to be postponed 
After consulation between the judges of Operation Brainstorm and the Ombudsman Steering Committee, a final decision and announcement on the winners of the contest has been postponed until April 2. 
Bill McLean, initiator of Operation Brainstorm, explained, "Due to the unexpected number of return at the last minute, there are more great ideas than expected." 
"After a first screening the judges have narrowed the number of ideas in each category to ten or twelve, but they are having a great deal of difficulty picking out winners due to the excellent efforts before them." he continued. 
Steve Lucero, a community relations officer, Matt Cockrell, Ombudsman director, and the Ombudsman Service expressed agreement with the decision of the judges. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame Md St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box" Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Ind. 46556. 


Notre Dame's 
PRE-CANA PROGRAM 
for engaged couples 
April 6, 13, and 20th (Sun. Ev.) Limited to Notre Dame students and their partners 
Sign up now in Campus Ministry Off. Deadline: March 19th 
_.Sponsore~_ ~Y Campus __Ministry..,.. 


for Ford welco1ne 
kind of record can follow a man all his life." Two-thirds of the ap­plicants get flatly unconditional amm•sty or a maximum of 3 months alternative service. 
11.-shurgh is on record as favoring unconditional amnesty in all cases hut he t>xplained that "it is a verv diverse hoard and not l'veryon~ agrees so it takes a lot of persuasion." 
ThP amnl•sty program is not the only project Hl•sburgh is currently working on. A "global action lobby" along the lines of the Pxisting Common Cause organization is being formed by H-~.•shurgh and fifteen other national leadcl•rs including John Gardner of Common Cause, Bill Movers, Norman Cousins of the Wo~ld Ft>deralkists..James Grant of thP Overseas Dt>velopment Coundl and William Sloane Coffin of Yale. 

Thl' lobby will hopPfully bring togethPr pl'ople eonel•rned with the world hunger situation, world 
pt>aCl'. disarmaml'nl. federalism and other probPlms to lobby for world-wide solutions to world-wide probll•ms. 
TAX ASSISTANCE PROGRAM 
for free help with your TAX RETURNS, stop by the Student Government Offices 
(2nd floor LaFortune) MONDAYS 1:30-4:30 THURSDAYS 2:30-4:30 
N 0 W APPEARING 
SPACE COAST KIDS AND LISTEN 



~Sfrula~

NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS 
on U.S. 31 Htwttn lliltS. So. B•d-free Parkin&-683--4350 


The Student Union Presents 
SUMMER TRAVEL PLANS 
EUROPE: 14DAYS IN ENGLAND SCOTLAND AND WALES 
INCLUDES: $799.00 
. Transportation from JFK to Heathrow Airports . Option of choosing from over 300 hotels throughout Britain . 13 day use of rental car with unlimited milage . 5 separate departure dates in May & June . Optional plans with EURAIL PASSES & SOFA AIR PASSES (available separately) 
MIDDLE EAST: 21 DAYS IN EGYPT, JORDAN, IRAN, LEBANON AND SYRIA $1776 
INCLUDES: 
. Transportation from JFK and between coun­tries . First class hotel accomodations 
. Breakfast and dinner daily . Tours with free admission to shrines, museums, etc. 
Planned itinerary 
$25 Deposit Required Sign up Now 
BROCHURES AND INFO AVAILABLE AT STUDENfc UNION TICKET OFFICE (2nd 
.,
.F.loo.~ JqFortune;JoR CALL ,283·3li31 

Wednesday, March 19, 1975 the observer 
Macheca reveals today 
Decision on freshmen cars to be announced 
by Maureen Flynn Staff Reporter 
Dean of Students John Macheca is expected to decide today whether or not freshmen will be allowed to have cars on campus after Easter break, according to Jim Russel, chairman of the tFreshman 1 Advisory Council 
A proposal, submitted to the Office of Student Affairs by the Freshman , Advisory Council, would allow approximately 160 freshmen students to park cars either in the D-llot or on the grass field outside the lot. 
Russell explained that the number was determined through hall surveys and consideration ot the amount of · parking space available. 
"There are about 100 spaces open in D-1," said Russell. "Half of these would be reserved for the first 50 freshmen whose requests for parking were accepted. The next hundred or so would have to park on the grass:" 
The main disadvantages to the grass lot, Russell pointed out, are groun~ condttions during rainy weather and the necessity of moving the cars for the An Tostal celebration. Both lot and field parkers would have to pay a parking sticker fee and abide by the regulations for car owners outlined in Du Lac. 
One positive criteria for gran­ting or refusing students' requests for parking, according to the Advisory Council's proposal, is the individual's first semester grade point average. 
"A 'good' grade point average from the first se"'ltater," Russell observed, "would be an indi~ation that the student had adjusted satisfactorily to colleg~ life and could handle the responsibility of a car." 
The Council Jirst approached Student Affairs last semester and 
received an expla,tation of the 

current university policy which · prohibits freshmen students from ! having cars on campus. 
':"Their· major concern with 
freshmen," Russell said, "is the 
adjustment to college life. To 
own a car would be a hindrance to 
the process of adjustment." 
"I can see their point," Russell 
admitted. "Certainly there's a big 
adjustment to be made the first 
year of college." 
At the beginning of the second 
semester, however, Russell said 
Vice-president to Student Affairs 
Bro. Just Paczesny suggested that 
the Council present a specific 
proposal to the Office of Student 
Affairs. 
According to Russell, Paczesny 
indicated that perhaps freshmen 
might be allowed to have cars on 
campus after Easter. "They 
thoughtt freshmen might be well-
enough adjusted .aftel'l full semester 

SMC Health Services to n1ove 
to basen1ent of Holy Cross H 11 Aristotle Onassis was laid to rest Tuesday in a whitewashed tomba beneath the dark green cypresses 
by Michele Arrieh Staff Reporter 
St. Mary's Student Health Services will be moved from LeMans Hall to the basement of Holy Cross Hall next September to provide larger and better facilities for student medical needs. The new location will allow adequate space for eight infirmary rooms, two examining rooms, a larger waiting room and a separate doctor's and nurse's office. 
One doctor will be on duty five days a week, one hour a day. Nurses will also remain staffed twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. There will be in addition to the present two nurses another full time nurse on duty between 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. One nurse will remain on each of the two evening shifts. Student nurses from the SMC nursing school also assist by doing minor routine services under supervision. 
An expansion of services might include throat culture testing for mononucleosis and possibly pelvic examinations. Students in the past were referred to doctors' offices in • town for such testing. 
Mrs. Verna Wood, R.N. and director of Student Health, has been working on the relocation of health services for the last few years. She has been meeting with Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, vice­president of Student Affairs and her assistant, Stevie Wenig, along with staff doctors Armand Rigaux, James Serwatka and Harvey Brechtl, to discuss the move, at weekly Student Affairs staff meetings. 
Wood commented that, "there is a need for establishing a separate and single unit for health services which would not interfere with dorm life." "The offices now in use on the third floor of LeMans Hall, are too small and cluttered," stated Mrs. Wood. 
The new consolidation of in­firmary rooms will provide more confidentiality with the students," she said.. The examining rooms 
and doctor's office will be closed off, and she believes that, "more students will seek medical at­tention in a more private at­mosphere." 
With the old infirmary rooms 
down the hall from the health of­
fice, an on-duty nurse would be 
forced to close the office to attend 

to patients, leaving no one to answer 
the phone, she said. 
New examining tables, beds and 
other updated equipment will also 
be included in the future facilities. 
The new location in Holy Cross is readily accessible and connected to most of the dorms through the tunnel. Outdoor entrances are also available from which an am­bulance or patient in a wheel chair could easily be accommodated. 

Senior election rules released 
by Phil Mancini Starr Reporter 
Juniors wishing to run for Senior Class offices must submit petitions with 100 ·signatures by Friday, Aprilll at 5 p.m. The elections will be held Thursday, April 17. 
According to Senior Class President Greg Ericksen, can-dictates must run on complete tickets including candidates for president, vice-president, secretary and treasurer. Ericksen said this method has been chosen to insure that the officers are 
familiar with one another and will 
be able to work well together.
citin~ the el~ction campai~ningmd offJCe-holdmg as educational experiences, Ericksen urged all 

juniors interested in the offices to .1 run. He added that the positions I are very enjoyable and are ex-I 
cellent opportunities to do some 1 constructive work. 1 
Candidate petitions will be made 1 available Wednesday, April 9 and an organizational meeting will be I held Sunday, April 13. At this I meeting the candidates will be I informedofallcampaignrulesand [ regulations. 1 
Each ticket will be allowed to 1 spend $50 on the campaign, which I will last from Monday, April 14 until Wednesday, April 16. 1 
1
The duties of the senior class 

officers include organizing the I senior class trip, senior picnic, I
senior week, the senior ball, commencement weekend, election 1 
of the senior class fellow, the 1 
awarding of the h.onorary doc-I torate . ~t gradu~tion and ~e 
elections may be addressed to Ericksen at 3687. 
Election of the Senior Class Fellow will be held Thursday and Friday, April 3 and 4 in the two dining halls andthestudent center. 
The election is ·being held over two days this year with the goal of increasing the turnout and to make the recipient more representative of the class, according to Ericksen. 
All seniors are eligible to vote. 
Nominees include Shana Alexander, Jimmy Breslin, Jerry Garcia, Michael Harrington, Dr. 
AI Sondej and Gary Tredeau. The Senior Class Fellow is to be a person who "the majority of seniors feel closely expresses their attitudes, views and understanding. of life and society in general." 
Qualification is based on past history and current ac­complishments. A requirement of the award is the ability of the recipient to visit Notre Dame for two days in late April or early May and meet with seniors. 
Previous winners of the award include William Ruckleshaus and· 

James l(ritzeck, Ara Parseghian, Fr. Robert Griffin. . ,

r--------------------...---11111!-...
1
I 
superv.ISIOQ of! Junior ~nd ~e,rug_r ~ ........ , • •. A ·l!.OT OF. GREEN I iii\ . :\.1 lui~: I •
class elections. . · , _ j . •
1 
T 0 M 'S UN IVERS IT Y STANDARD 1.
1 
17993 STATE ROAD 23 <:llHJU83 I 
I CONVENIENTLY LOCAT.Il;D I
I 
AT THE CORNER OF 1 
IRONWOOD AND STATE I 
ROAD 23 1 I 
,ACR..,..·• -· ·-· ~"--:~~ 7'~f'M•PT I lOF· .,_,__·'::c~Ni .•. :.:..;;.:c. 'Tl,I:OE.NTS I ~vMPLETE CAR-CAI{E I
I
1
NOW FREE WITH EVERY $1 Q 1 t'U RLHA"'t: ll NLLUUl N".:. uA::,J I 
~ .._, · I A VALUABLE MICHIGAN II 
GREEN \'",ICKET WHICH I
\) I 
COULD !BRING YOU I
. 1 

to deal with the distraction and 
,responsibility ·involved'' Russell explained. "It .certainly would be more convenient, and freshmen would be able to pack up all their things to take home at the end of the year.. " 
Russell said that the Freshman Advisory Council has been working in' ('Onjunction with Paczesny· and Macheca in the Office of Student Affairs. 
"I talked to Dean Macheca last Friday," Russell stated. "He told me then, 'It looks good.' The only thing we're· really thinking about is the grade point cut-Qff. As of 
yesterday (Monday, March 17), no 
decision had been made," Russell 
concluded. 
If the Council's proposal is ap­proved, it will initiate the first change in the on-campus parking 
Inpivate service 
1restrictions since 1970. Until 1968 
on-campus parking was restricted 
to faculty and off-campus students. 
Then in 1969 second semester seniors· were granted parking priveleges, and all seniors were eligible during the 1969-70 school year. The program was expanded to include juniors and sophomores in 1970-71. These changes were all initiated by the· Student Life Council, formed in 1968. 
Macheca was not available for comment. Paczesny's office however, stated yesterday that no decision had been made, but tnat an announcement would \Probably be forthc<>ming todav. Freshmen are reminded to ,check the hall bulletin boards and listen for announcements in the dining halls, since the Obse.rver will not be published again before break. 
Onassis buried 
SKORPIOS, Greece (UPI)-­
of his private island. Hiis widow Jacqu£>line, her lips quivering, stood •'rect with head held high. 
The former first lady of the United States in less than 12 years has led funerals for two of the world's most powerful men. 
She held the hand of her son by President John F. Kennedy as a priest chanted the last hymn for the dead for Onassis. 
White lilies adorned the chapel surrounded by cypresses and magnolias on a bluff overlooking the blue waters of the Ionian Sea. 
After the Greek Orthodox ser­vices, the walnut casket, trimmed in brass and bearing a brass plate which said in English "Aristotle Onassis--1900-1975," was carried to a yard-high stucco tomb for in­terment. 
Onassis' 23-year-Qld daughter and principle heir, Christina, shaking with sobs, stood at the head of the casket. 
"'HE ROMA PIZZA * LIQUOR * ITALIAN FOOD 
Your ·.Host FranK A11rstasio 'A PIZZA YCUCANtCT REFUSE' LIVE B A N D S 0 N VV E EKE N 0 S 
Call 234-J2~8 for Delivery_ 219 N. Mich. Avv. uowniuwit At North End Of I River· Bend Plaza 
NEW RELEASE NOW AT 

73~-Bl,~~­
. Mishawaka (across fram Town & Country) 

WITH: J9ZEF CHIROWSKI • WHITEY GLAN STEVE HUNTER • PRAKASH JOHN • DICK WAGNER ON ATLANTIC RECORDS & TAPES 
SEE ALICE COOPER'S OPENING NIGHT OF THE '75 TOUR THIS FRIDAY NIGHT AT WINGS STADIUM IN KALAMAZOO 
Also Happening at Boogie ... lf-LED ZEPPELIN SALE THIS WEEKEND lt-NEW KANSAS Jt-NEW DAN FOGELBERG lf-NEW ROBIN TROWER 
.H!Ou!t1U 
·~ All. qu~imis:~~ rege~-g, tJi('-L.ii..-~~.~.~..,_:-~i-_.•·•~~~ .........., li.~iiiaiiii~;;f;it;~i.Eiei!aii~ 

... 

An Tostal staff uncovers plans 
a.m. cyclists take their turn in Ye Old Bicycle Race. 
Then it's picnic time on the quads, and after everyone is nourished, an Tostal moves to the brand new An Tostal Field, located on the east side of Juniper Road, just north of Stepan Center. 
Returning are the chariot race, pie-eating contest, and the grimy Tug-0-War and Mud Volleyball Championships. The Touch Football Championships will once again pit man against woman in a gridiron battle of the sexes. 
New features will be an attempt by the football and basketball teams to smash pianos in less than two minutes and twenty-six seconds (world record time), and a reenactment <over the mudpit) of how Robin Hood met Little John. 
Finally, An Tostal closes with the Irish Wake, but plans for that are being kept secret until after break. 
For further information, contact either Tom Porter 0789) or Bob Quakenbush (3383). 
For more specific information, for the Bookstore Basketball Tourney,call Vince Meconi (3470); for the Mud Volleyball Tour­nament, call Bill Quinn or Gary Brownell (8311 or 8313); for the Chariot Race, call Betsy Lamping and Polly Mack (6885)­and for the Trivia Bowl, call Rich Morton at 3097 or Digger Dziemanowick at 3696. 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION PRESENTS 
SANTANA IN CONCERT 4\N TOSTAL WEEKEND FRIDAY APRIL 18 
8:00 P.M. 
NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC & CONVOCATION CENTER 
TICKETS GO ON SALE TODAY 
11 :30 A.M. AT STUDENT UNION 
PRICES: $5.50, $4.50, $3.00 



Sill 

OPEN 11:00 A.M. -7 DAYS AWEEK MON. & TUES• 
. 5 TO 7:30 P.M. 
SHAKEYS 
SUPER SUPPER 
CHICKEN • PIUA • SPAGHETTI -SALAD 


$192 
ALL YOU CAN EAT 
N.D. SPECIAL 
PIZZA 
$.50 OFF -DOUBLE SIZE $1.00 OFF -FAMILY SIZE 
OFFER EXPIRES 


by Ron Porkins Starr Rt>porter 
Who works on An Tostal'1 None but the brave? The proud and the profane? The good, bad and ugly'/ Only the lonely'/ 
ANSWER: Over a hundred Notre Dame and St. Mary's students who have spent the last eouple of months planning, organizing, creating and phoning to prepare the annual An Tostal festival--which as of St. Patrick's nay is only one month away. And now they are ready to begin revealing the plans they have in store for the third weekend in April. 
Gentle Thursday opens the \\'(•ekend with the customary Irish I.uneh. provided courtesy of Notre Paml' food services. Then An Tostal festivity begins in earnest. 
When the clock says quarter aftl'r one. the An Tostal Committee will trv to "Beat the Clock," as a 1ww t:vl'nt debuts on the South back the clock, as the eever­popular Trivia Bowl returns to once again prove the male mind is superior to the female (seven years in a row is hard to dispute>. 

Around four that afternoon the audience wiill take their seats on the roofs of Badin, Gill:)ert's and, of course, the Bookstore as the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame <by then possibly also known as the NCAA champions> face the finest feminine basketball team on campus in a game of hoops on the bookstore courts. The varsity must wear boxing gloves throughout the game, so it is possible the girls may make Digger's boys look like dribbling idiots. 
Next on the sports agenda are the semi-finals of the Bookstore Basketball Tournament, as the four rugged survivors of the grueling Iron Man Tourney square off ina double-header from which only two teams will escape un­scathed. 

evening's festivities. A musical · background to the entire evening will be provided by a popular local band. Returning are the An Tostal jail, the weekend's most unwilling frequented establish­ment, or is that the pie throwing booth next door, where "prisoners" who are opposed to bring their way out of jail learn that An Tostal jailers serve more than bread and water. 
Other returnees include the human pyramid contest, the dunking booth, the burlap sack race, Name that Tune, and after a one year absence, the Find Your Mate Contest (alias the Group Grope). 
The evening will end with the Mr. Campus Contest, a take-{)ff on the Miss America Pageant.· Talent, swimsuit and evening wear competition will be featured as a representative from each hall vies for the beautiful trophy. 
Frivolous Friday showcases the finest impersonators on campus on the South Quad stage. Contestants may impersonate anything animate or inanimate (such as your roommate) or anyone famous or infamous. Egg toss and jello toss contests will be held once again, as well as several new events. 
For instance, to give the guys the opportunity to thank the gals for the flowers they'll receive on Gentle Thursday, the An Tostal • Committee Chorus (for a small fee) will deliver Singing Telegrams to the lady of your choice. For the restless ad­venturers on campus, the First An Tostal Scavenger Hunt will be held. 
For those who like Togetherness, a car will be provided as revelers try to stuff as many of themselves into an automobile as is possible in a one-minute timespan. And for the fearless, we have an O.K. event <Corral, that is)--the Duel of the Water Balloons. 
That evening presents a couple of alternatives. Santana will perform at the ACC, and Stepan Center will host the Original An Tostal Amateur Hour, followed by a special event which is rapidly becoming the pet project of the upper-echelon An Tostalers. 
Six in the morning is awfully Parly any day of the week, but that's the time the Decathlon is slated to begin. Two hours later the Road Rally commences for four wheeled vehicles, while at 11 

campus view 
A NEW APARTMENT COM­
MUNITY DEVELOPED FOR THE STUDENTS. OF NOTRE DAME & SAINT MARY'S. CAMPUS VIEW IS SET IN A WOODED SURROUt-{DING YET IS ONLY 
3 BLOCKS, FROM NOTRE DAME. LOCATED JUST ONE BLOCK NORTH OF STATE RD. 23 OFF OF WILLIS"RD. 

CAMPUS 
VIEW 
~E and T\t\0 BEDROOM RJR NISHED APARTMENTS 
..  COMMU.NITY BUILDING  
iC  INDOOR SWIMMING POOL  
..  BASKETBALL COURT  
..  SHAG CARPET'  
..  2 BATHS IN 2 BEDROOM APT  
..  ALL APPLIANCES COLOR  
..  COORDINATED SECURITY  
..  SOUND CONDiTIONED  

-tc PRIVACY 
NOW RENTING FOR FAll SEMESTEI\ ( '75 -'76 SCHOOL YEAR ) 
FOR RENr14. INFORMATION PHONE 272-1441 
; -. -· 
_}}J Wednesday, March 19, 1975 the observer 
•

Press Corps: A day 1n the life 
by Fred Graver Editorial Editor 

Shortly before Air Force One arrived at the St. Joseph's County Airport, an un­scheduled chartered domestic jet deposited the Washington Press Corps onto the run­way. There, they waited for the arrival of the President. 
The Press Corps consists of some 50 to 100 producers, correspondents, reporters, cameramenaand technicians who cove.r the President's activities, both while he is at the White House and on all domestic and foreign trips. They record every move and speech that the President makes, and send it off to their news services almost before the President has realized himself what he has done. 
In the time that the Press Corps was at Notre Dame, each reporter filed almost twenty full-length newspaper articles and updates; the photographers shot close to one thousand pictures, both black and white and color; and the cameramen shot close to ten thousand feet of film. 
Peter Hackes, acting White House correspondent for NBC described his day. 
"I was up at six o'clock, which is five your time, at the airport by eight, and I probably won't arrive at the airport till about three this morning, which means home around four. 
Arriving at the airport, many of the correspondents headed directly for one of the ten long-distance telephones which were placed in the press area. The Press Corps was also provided with a teletype machine, but the reporters chose to file their stories when they got to the main filing area at Notre Dame. 
The crowd waiting for President Ford at 
the airport was a public relation man's 
dream. The estimated 1500 people, mostly 
parents and children let out from school for 
the occasion. had been waiting all morning 
to view the President, and there wasn't a 
dissident note present. 
To the side, the Mishawaka High School 
Marching Band waited to play the Notre 
Dame Fight Song, the Michigan State 
Victory March and, by the way, Hail To The 
Chief. The more enthusiastic held up signs in two official press busses, which were reserved for national reporters only. Local reporters had to travel in private cars, which were not allowed in the motorcade. 
At one point on Jefferson Boulevard, which had been re-named "O'Ford Boulevard" for the occasion, a handful of negative signs proclaimed, "Lower Utility Rates", "We Can't Afford You, Ford" and "Who Elected You?" 
Tom DeFrank, White House correspon­dent for Newsweek magazine, called the South Bend reception, "the largest and most enthusiastic since Topeka, Kansas." 
Arriving at the Convocation Center, the Press Corps was ushered through Gate 1 to Sections 7 and 8 of the ACC. Television and radio equipment had been set up earlier in the morning, and "multiple feed" facilities were available. 
"Multiple feed" is a device by which the sound from one microphone can be sent through many different receivers. It is especiallyhelpful to cameramen who wish to record a speech directly onto film and are unable to place their own microphone in front of the speaker, and to reporters who wish to connect their tape recorders in for an immediate complete transcript of the speech. 
The Press Corps had received the text of President Ford's remarks previous to the speech delivered at the Convocation, and their only job was to watch for anything extraordinary that may happen. Most of the members of the Press were keeping an eye out for the planned walk"i)ut from the speech. 
As the speech got into full swing, it ap­peared to some members of the press that this reception for President Ford, though more enthusiastic than any they had seen, would be nothing exceptional, considering both the audience and the President's remarks. 
Immediately following the Convocation, most of the Press Corps walked to the Center for Continuing Education, where the press center was located. Those who had be.en chosen to participate in the "press pool" which would ~over the President's reception in the Monogram room, remained in the ACC. 
Press Pools and Local Confusion 
The "press pool" is the means by which members of the Press Corps can divide their coverage of a Presidential visit, especially one as long and active as Ford's was on Monday, thus decreasing the over-all work load of the reporters and making the arrangements for the White House staff not so cumbersome. 
The pools consist of national and local 
press, chosen to represent the entire press 
present. They cover an event and return 
with a "pool report", which they present at 
a briefing shortly afterwards. 
Most of the Press Corps consider the pool reports "very reliable", according to Peter Hackes. The opinion of local reporters, as observed Monday, sometimes may differ. 
"Pool report no. 3", covering the Academic 
Reception, raised a good deal of confusion. The pool report stated that Ed Byrne, incoming Student Body President, attended the reception and presented President Ford with a ski sweater. The report then said, "Byrne was asked if he was the student body president who reportedly was to have walked out on the President's speech, and he said "No, that was the outgoing Student Body President,and then at the end, neither 
of them walked out." 
To reporters already confused about the 
nature of the walk-{)ut, which many of them 
thought had not occurred at all, the 
statement about Byrne threw more fog into 
the scene. Tom Drape, Editor of The Ob­
se1·ver, tried to tell the newsmen who had 
briefed the press that neither Student Body 
President was involved directly with the 
walk-{)ut, and that Byrne had originally 
rejectd the invitation to attend the 
Academic Reception. The newsmen 
listened, but did nothing to clear up the 
situation. 
Shortly afterwards, Ed Byrne showed up 
in the press filing room with a press release 
which attempted to define his position. The 
release also criticized an Associated Press 
story, which Byrne said had stated that he 
was going to walk out. Byrne was 
immediately contacted by the Associated 
Press reporter who had written the story, 
and shown that the story did not contain the 
supposed error. Byrne stated that he had. 
heard aboutrthe story, but did not read it 
himself. 
The press release alsoi stated in the first 
sentence. that Byrne had not rejected an 
invitation to the Academic Reception, when 
in fact he had. Byrne had meant to say that 
he had not refrained from attending the 
reception. A few minutes after the release 
was brought to the filing room, it was 
gathered up to be re-written. 
All of which is a means of demonstrating 
that the press pool reports, though they may 
be "reliable" in the national context, are not 
done carefully enough to withstand local 
scrutiny. 
The Press Center 
The Press center in the CCE consisted of a press filing room, a press conference area situationed in the Auditorium a press dining area, and offices for the Presidential Press Staff and Press Secretary Ron Nessen. 
Available in th press filing area, where reporters and correspondents wrote and filed their stories about the Presidential visit, were multiple audio feed facilities, numerous long distance telephones, four teletype machines, and television monitors for the press conference. 
Also a public address system, hooked into the Auditorium, was available for those reporters who wished to file their stories on the press conference as the conference was taking place. 
In the Auditorium, teevision cameras were set up for the press conference, and to either side were areas for cameramen and photographers. _ 
The Presidential Press Staff offices housed a staff of about ten people who kept the press informed through briefings and messages. The press staff brought with them typewriterss, recording equipment and a mimeograph machine. They provided the press with transcripts of the President's speech, the press conference, pool reports, schedules, and even copies of legislation and appointments that the President had made in Washington that day. All within minutes after the event. 
(l'lmtimu•d on page !ll 


which read, "Welcome President Ford", "Happy St. Patrick's Day, President," and other cordial greetings. 
As Air Force One came into sight, the band struck up the opening notes of the · Fight Song, the crowd began to cheer and the Press Corps calmly settled into position. There were no microphones or public ad­dress systems set up in the area, so it was obvious that the President would not be making any statements. The majority of the work at the airport was to be done by the photographers and cameramen. 
The President spent about ten minutes shaking hands with the crowd at the airport. 
One youth grasped Ford's hand firmly and said: "May the Lord bless and keep you, Mr. President." Eagle-eyed secret service men kept a close watch on the President, forming a wedge in the crowd of 
HELEN THOMAS, Washington correspondent for United 
photographers and newsmen who clamored International news one of dozens of
Press service, was 
for a picture or stray remark. 
national reporters at Notre Dame to cover the President's 
The Press Corps followed the motorcade 
visit. (Photo by Chris Smith) 

At BURGER CHEF '! ••give your sandwich the "works" at 
NO EXTRA CHARGE 
f"IX your own burger the way you . Two locations likeitatournewWorksBar. 
Ironwoo....li Help yourself to lettuce, tomatoes,
1716 N
• U onions, relish and pickles. H mustard ·. and catsup are all you want, it's there
52920 U.s. 31 North for you too. Have as much or as little as 
you want at the Burger Chef Works Bar 
(at Cleveland Rd.) ...andbuildyourburgerjusttheway 
you want it. 

-~~,_________.,. 
...............,...............................
•
•
•.. .• 
• •
• 
• 
• • 
• 
•
• 
• 
• 
• 
•
• i• ·worldparts !• : unlocksthe : :• Foreign Legion. :• 
: Aftentlon members of Amer)ca's Foreign Legian of Import car owners. : 
• 
Worldparts has the key to all your maintenance and service problems. We e 

• 
have quolltv·J:nade replacement pariS for your Import cars. And we can e 

• 
recommend nearby dealers and garages to do the worlt. e 

• 
Ports and service. Thors what WOrldpariS Is all about. e e II you're a member of the Foreign Leglan... stop In and see us. e e We've got the "key" to worry-free driving. e 


: Y«RL~rs : 
e Auto Parts for Imports • Division ot Maremont Carparafton e 
• VOLKSWAGEN • TOYOTA • DATSUN • OPEL • VOLVO • Mt;llCEDES • MG ·FIAT • TRIUMPH • : RENAULT • CAPRI • PORSCHE • SAAB • JAGUAR ·BMW· AUDI • PINTO • (ENGINE PARTS) : 
e We're headquarters for Worldpai11-ccll us lOr o service expeit near you. . e 
i ROSELAND . : 
: AUTOMOIIYiJji;ry INC. : 
MONDAY· FRIDAY••• ILm.to I p.m. SATURDAY ......... h.m.to2 .m. 

·:. l 
HOUIII ·:. 
: "We service all domestic makes." : 
: 272-6700 1320 Dixieway No. : 
l• '(at the Iicht} :
••••••••••••o•••••••o••••••••••••¥•••••••••••• 
Dpinian



P.O. Box Q 
Q & A About The 

Keeney wrote, "During ­Don't Hesburgh's remarks, a small Good contingent of students staged a 
Response Hunger Coalition
walkout." To begin with, this

Exclude 
"small contingent of students did 

Bad
not not walkout "during Hesburgh's remarks." We walked

SMC Coverage vince mecani
out during Father Burtchaell'sHt•ar Editor: citation for the honorary degree. 

'Dear Editor: It's quite apparent to me that students have many miscon­Also , we were not just "a small 
Your coverage of the walkout on
We couldn't help but be angry ceptions about the current attempt by the Notre Dame Hungercontingent of students." Keeney 
President Ford was highly
tfter reading the Thursday letter Coalition to get students to eat less meat and-or fast from certainfailed to mention that one
from Hill Zimmerman regarding disappointing. Perhaps it was not 
professor, Joseph Duffy of the m<'als. I've seen somany comments on the questionnaires that
cheerleading. That he feels Saint as massive as expected nor as W<'rt' passed out last mohth and overheard so many questions in theF:nglish Dept., walked out in robe.
Mary's woml'n should be excluded effective but it reflected the dorms and in the Dining Hall as I handed out pledge forms that INumerous faculty, staff and 
frustration of many students at
from Notre Dame cheerleading is want to try to publicly answer some of them.
concerned citizens (non-student

foolish in our point of view. Notre Dame concerning the Q. What happens to the money that the Diping Hall saves bycitizens> also took part in
·Basically our reasoning is based inhumane and undemocratic serving less meat'? Do we get a refund on our room and board orthe walkout. The core group did
on the fact that we (all of us) are policies of the United States does the University rip us off again?
consist of roughly 50 students,

involved in what is supposedly a government. 
,\, This is an uvderstandable question. I think I'm second to nobutpeople throughout the ACCNotre Dame-Saint Mary's com­one in my general distrust of most ND administrators; however,joined in demonstrating theirmunity. Though cheer leading is the fact is that the ,Dining Hall won't save any money by sub­disapproval. Under the guise of an "academicbut a minute facet of this com­Keeney went on, "The walkout convocation," the leaders of this stituting for meat on Tuesdays and Fridays. At present, fish andmunity, nev('rtheless it still in­was intended to protest the University bestowed a high honor Pggs, for example, are as expensive or even more expensive than dudes a joint effort from both chicken and the cheaper cuts of beef and pork. If they cut outPresident's campus appearance." upon a man whose political ex­schools. If Saint Mary's women steaks and substituted fish, sure, there'd be a saving--but obviously We were not protesting the pediencies contradict the spirit ofare to be excluded from ND that won't be the substiution.

President's appearance. We were human concern supposedlychcerleading then ND men should 
Q. But isn't the Dining Hall going to profit if they only give theprotesting the University's espoused by Notre Dame. Thebe excluded from Saint Mary's awarding him an honorary law enthusiastic resonse to the Hunger Coalition 50 cents for every meal that is fasted from? I'veactivities. 

heard that the University profited from the Rice and Tea Meals. 

degree. We felt that his legislative President by the majority ofWhy then, should Notre Dame :\. Again, I'm not interested in being an apologist fof the Dining record, the policies he has \up: students at the convocation sadlystudents be involved in the Saint Halls, but the ND Food Service's projected loss for this year is inported, and the proposals he has reinforces the conclusion thatMary's drama department? Why the hundreds of thousands of dollars--they-re not profiting onmade are not morally consistent American college students haveshould Notre Dame students be anything. It costs the Dining Hall about $1.50 to prepare eachwith the n(ln-violent Christian indeed regressed to the apathy ofallowed to accept teaching cer­student meal; this does not mean that the food costs $1.50 in eachtificates from Saint Mary's? Why precepts that Notre Dame was the 1950's. 
meal. When allowances are made for overhead, and the fact that

founded and continues to exist Mary's students have a co­upon. We were also protesting the should Notre Dame and Saint 
only a small percentage of the students will be fasting, not the exchange program including university's hypocrisy in calling President Ford asks for in­
whole studentbody, the 50 cents contribution is reasonable. meals and classes? Why then, the extravaganza an 'academic creased military aid to Cambodia, Q. Why should I make any sacrifices in my eating habits when should there be a · Notre Dame­convocation." citing the anachronistic "domino 
the food in the Dining Halls is so bad already'? 

Saint Mary's community at all? In no way were we disputing theory." Haven't we all learned A. Dining Hall food is probably the target of more abuse than The history of both schools in­Ford's right to speak on this from the Vietnam bloodbath the anything else on campus--and I complain as much as the next guy, to be sure. But really, is the food that bad? When we compare it to
cludes cooperation on the part of campus. In no way did we infringe futility of such a solution? students from both of them. upon this first amendment right. 
the food we get at home, I suppose it is. But how about compared to the food that the starving peoples of the world eat--when they eat. IBecause women have been ac­We were happy to see the 

cepted as students at Notre Dame, President of the United States Ford compliments his Ad­imagine that most people will say that that's ridiculous com­should this cooperation be aban­making ties again with the ministration on its alleged efforts 
parison; I wonder, though, if it isn't a comparison we should make 

doned? This would lead one to academic community. But we felt to ease the world food crisis. What more often. God knows, most of us so seldom think of those less believe that the only reason why the hypocrisy of the degree and the about the drastic cutback in food fortunate than ourselves--and again, I'm as guilty as the next Saint Mary's was included in the University administration stamp allocations that the U.S. 
person. first place was because the men at warranted a peaceful means of Dept of Agriculture recently in­Q. Since the amount of meat consumed in the ND dining Halls is Notre Dame needed female protest. stituted, supported by the 
insignificant compared to the total amount of meat consumed in the companionship. That Keeney could misinterpret President? mtire U.S., is enough grain going to be saved to significantly help 
We emphatically feel that this these points is ludicrous. Sunday the starving people of Bangldesh or Africa? cooperation should not be afternoon and evening we A. No. Neither will one person's vote ever make the difference in discontinued simply, because the described in detail to Tom Drape, If these are examples of Ford's a large election. But we have to start somewhere. We don't have more people there are to con­the present Observer editor, the "revival of fundamental American · the capability to ask the entire population of the U.S. to alter their tribute to ND-SMC life, the more Paling habits. But we can ask the students of Notre Dame (as
purpose of our walkout. We also values," then perhaps being un­
diverse ideas there are to be students on other campuses are being asked) to make a small
talked to a reporter enumerating American is the only way to end contributed. In other words, the our goals. 1 personally talked to this madnesS. change, as a first step. 
more students there are to try out Q. Why should we cut down on our consumption of meat or food
Keeney Sunday emphasizing the 

for cheerleading, it is reasonable when there is a grain surplus in the U.S. right now? Besides, so
reasons for protest, saying that in Patricia Bergeson 
to assume that there would be a much of the food that is sent to the poorer nations is lost through 
no way were we opposing the 

better group to select from, and inefficiencies of distribution, spoilage, insects, theft, etc.
President's right to speak.

therefore a better~ group of . (Unfortunately there is still Giving A. Both the grain surplus and American food aid abroad have cheerleaders. been steadily declining in recent years. Existing surpluses cannot 
more to this.) Keeney said also in this same paragraph that "over And
In our opinion, Zimmerman's continue to feed the starving peoples of the world by themselves. It reasoning is extremely faulty 600 students and faculty signed is true that not all of the food sent abroad is used in the most ef­especially in his comparison of the petitions over the weekend to stage Suffering • ficient manner. Food problems in these countries are caused in Notre Dame and Saint Mary's large part by the fact that the countries are underdeveloped, and it 
the walkout." This again is totally 

sports programs. Notre Dame is this underdeveloped status that also causes the inefficiencies of
erroneous. The letter was directed Dear Editor:

competes on a national level, distribution. Distribution problems themselves are symptoms, not 
and presented to Father Hesburgh

therefore there is no comparison. l'auses. We need more grain than ever to overcome these problems 
and had nothing at all to do with 

As for his comment that it would be of distribution through sheer volume. 
the walkout. Keeney's The latest craze on campus is to
bad for Saint Mary's women as 
statement in opposition with his give to your local hunger coalition. 
Notre Dame cheerleaders to cheer reference to a wire service report, It is sad to see so many people led against their own basketball team, "only 50 persons actually walked blindly into such an ineffectual
since when have the Notre Dame out," implies that 600 people made endeavor. How many lives have DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
cheerleaders cheered at the Saint a written commitment and did not you really saved?
Mary's-Notre Dame basketball follow it. Sincerely yours, Hunger and starvation aregames? 
Pete McHugh problems caused by over­We feel that if Zimmerman is to Bart Pollock population. Feeding onedo such picky bickering, then he Patrick L. Small generation of starving people is notshould completely and reasonably Thomas J. Moore going to help the next starvingthink out his ideas before he 
David Myers ~en('ration. This blind
eontributes them to The Observer 
humanitarianism is laying the
which is, by the way, another ND the observer ground for a problem that willand SMC joint project. that is Saint 
increase exponentially in the
Mary's women are asked to pay an Night Editor -Andy Praschak future. we're relieving some of the ' Ohst•rvt•r fee. 
Assistant Night Editor --Martha suffering, but increasing the Fanning problem.
Sincerely, 
Since the problem is over­
:\nna l.ee \'ahalik, '76 layout Staff --laura Dodge, Katie 
population let's educate and
Jo DeNrff, '7i Kerwin 
develop birth control programs . 
. Joan f)admun. '77 
Day Editor -Don Reimer 

Forget the Church dogma, we can
"ur (;reco. '77 
Copy Readers --Kathy Mills, 

be more effective as Christians
Barbara llrossel, '77 
Jeannie Murphy 

instead of Catholics in this case, 
Editorials --Jim Eder, John 

It's time to find a real solution and 

Inaccurate 
Amantea 

t>ase the suffering. There are other problems toAnd Features --Thomas O'Neil, Danny contend with. In India the hunger
Sanchez 

problem is religious; a starving

Insensitive 
man will not eat the flesh of a
Sports--Bullet Bob, Bill Brink, Val 

sacred cow. He will not kill the
Zurblis

Dear Editor: rats that eat his grain. Death is Typists --Don Roos, Mary Corr. honorable to these people. Have After reading Tuesday's issue of Jim Landis, Tom Modglin we the right to interfere with their 
The Observer, we find ourselves 
Compugraphic --Phil Orscheln religious commitments? 
appalled by the lack of journalistic I ask all those people who are
Picture Screener --AI D'Antonio 

accuracy and sensitivity in your --sincere take before
Page 4 Editor Marlene Zloza to the· time newspaper.. Terry Keeney, the late Typist --Dave Rust each meal to ask God to ease the editor-in-chief~lect, was grossly suffering.
Night Controller--Dave Rust, M.J. 

inaccurate in the concluding paragraph of his lead article. Ad layout --Bob Tracey Tim Barock 




------------~ 
Wednesday, March 19, 1975 
the observer 7 1 
I I 
I
Letters to a Lonely ~ I 
l 
I
when easter lilies seem made of wax 
l 
.. reverend robert griffin ~ l 
Easter, when I was a boy, was a Sunday nothing to you,. all ye that pass by?" tomb. fades and die~ and lives again, season after 
I 
morning event, full of uncomfortable new On Easter Sunday, religion seemed to Now, it was Easter; and Jesus, emerged season, in all the springtime of the world. I 
l 
clothes, and featuring a church festival of turn into an enormous cheat. After a from the gravt , was little more than a know now that the drama ofCalvarywas not j flowers, and Easter lilies that looked as morning of being stuffed with jelly beans Galilean ghost, glimmering with promises the beating of hammers on nails, and the jthough they were made of wax, though they and chocolate bunnies, the Easter ham and but still unreal. Before He could touch my rounding of nails into flesh, until the dark, 
j
really weren't. Relatives handed you eggs was a tedious meal; as far as I was mind with faith, He was being shoved aside terrible stage was built where a man hung 
j
pictures of Jesus standing between a couple concerned, it was not grub worthy of by the resurrection of relatives whom I was crucified on a cross stretching between 
J
celebrating a holiday with. Though I knew I assured I would meet again. heaven and earth.
of those lilies, looking as uncomfortable as 
l
though He. too. were wearing new shoes, was obliged to be grateful for the food set I don't think that as a man, I am The most intense drama of Calvary was in and suffering from hay fever as well. The before me, it left me with a headache; and imagining wtiat the child's dilemma was. the love that persevered in gentleness until I verses attached to the pictures asked un­if I was sufficiently surfeited with candy, I Easter, each year, was a disappointment. It the end. Because that love was so strong, so I forgettable, haunting questions, like: "0 had a dull pain in the tum as well. left me feeling let down, as thought Jesus perfect, so self-giving, so obedient, our l grave, where is thy victory? 0 Death, I think my main quarrel with Easter was had not really survived at all. But, of Brother and God's Son passed from life into I 
where is thy sting?" 
neither dietary nor aesthetic. Rather, it had course, He didn't survive; He died. Faith death, and then emerged into life-again, as I 
To tell the truth, I didn't care much for to do with a fear that my faith was being teaches that Jesus, our hope, was alive though death were a shadow that had no I Easter. Good Friday, I really liked. It was tr;' ~d with. My faith probably wasn't being again in the £aster garden on Sunday power to hold Him. Because of His ex­j a day of high drama when you could think of t· ~d with at all; but looking back, I think morning; the horror, the violence, the death perience, death has lost its terror. I know I nails being driven through a man's hands, luat holy cards and Easter lilies and the were not the indignities of His defeat. But it that if I can persevere in love --if I can· trust I and then the Lord was left upon the cross to pastor's preaching were trying to induce me seemed that in my church and in my family, in the love I have for my friends, and the I die, with a thief on either side of Him to to make an assent of faith I wasn't really if we celebrated ressurection it was the love they have for me, and the love that God 
I 
balance off the tableau. The night before prepared for. On Easter Sunday, you see, wrong resurrection, one I didn't need at all has for us all--then all this love makes them 
I 
had been the Last Supper, and you could go we heard a lot of talk from the preacl er to be comforted by with empty mortuaries and me more alive than the shadow of death 
I 
to the Communion service in the about the immorality of our friends who had being subs,tituted for the one empty tomb which cannot hold us forever. 
I
died. that really mattered. Many friends and relatives belonging toCongregational church; on a sweet evening 
l
A school chum of mine, whose name was · During Holy Week , I was excited into a the people on this campus have died thisin springtime, you could be a guest at the Last Supper, and belong entirely to Jesus. 
'Betty Lee, had died. Because of Easter, the prolonged meditation on the Passion; but winter. I think of the dead very often, but 
l
For two days, your favorite hymns could be preacher said, we knew we would see Betty 'then, with a few words of lip service to though it helps, I don't need Easter to 
I
Lee again. We would also see our neighbor, Emmaus and a scant nod of the head to the remind me of them, or to console me for Green Hill Far Away Outside the City Mr.Lydon, again, said the preacher, Marys, Easter became a festival of con-their dying . They are as immortal as the I jWall". You envied the Catholic kids who, because Christ had conquered death. My solation for the family widows and we were life of Christ; they are as alive as the breath even in public schools, would, smugly and grandmother told me she would certainly grateful that Uncle Henry's uust would rise of God. We will share life with them in an I self-consciously, place a raised finger on see her parents again someday, and all her again. I don't want to seem 'nsensitive about immortal April. j their lips, if you tried to speak to them brothers and sisters who had been buried for Uncle Henry's dust, but I never liked to Sometimes, in thinking of d~ath, I recall I during the Three Hours of silence; then ... many years. Seeing them again, she said, think about his death in the first place. the prayer of Father Mapple in Moby Dick: I later. after school, they would go off to was what the promise of Easter meant to Death was a mystery and a horror and I 0 Father!--chiefly known to me by Thy rod-­I church with their parents, and make the her. damn well couldn't get excited about mo•·tal or immortal, here I die. I have l Stations of the Cross. Catholics, you thought I thought it would be nice to see Betty Lee graves,empty or otherwise; Christ's death strivt>n to be thine, more than to be this to yourself, especially owned Good Friday. again, and Mr. Lydon too, if he didn't was the one death I could really handle. But. world's, o•· mine own. Yet this is nothing; I On Good Friday, I always ached to be a remember I had set his lawn on fire. I was if I were to think about the rising of Henry leave etel'llity to Thee; for what is man that 
especially pleased for my grandmother, if Griffin's bones, I would have to remember he should've out the lifetime of his God? 
"The Old Rugged Cross" and "There Is a 
Catholic myself. 
But after the blood, the nails, and the getting dead relatives back again was what how he died of cancer, and all that other Splendid, vigorous words of a faith I death of Good Friday, the rituals and she wanted. But somehow, among all these heavy business of hospitals and funerals . shruld not be afraid to share. But for now, symbols of Easter seemed to turn to plastic. immortal hopes. I think I felt I had lost sight It was so depressing that all I could think of fo Easter~r. I share a hope with Job, and I "He has risen. as He said. Hallelujah," the of Jesus. For a week from Palm Sunday doing was eating my way through Easter~, offer it .as a comfort to all of you who mourn. choir would sing; but the anguished Lamb of onward, I had walked in my imagination at and there's no mouutain of candy eggs that I know that my, Redeemer liveth, and that God Who entered the tomb always seemed the side of Christ. I was in the crowd that is going to keep a kid happy forever. He shall stand at the latter day upon the to rmerge as a holy card Jesus whose best laid palms under the feet of his donkey. I Now that I am a man, death is still a earth; And though worms destroy this body, emblem seemed to be those damned plastic was a guest at the Supper in the Upper mystery, and there are even those dreadful yet in my flesh shall I see God. lilies. Even now, today, I am just realizing Room. I had watched with Him for an hour moments when it is also a horror. But the "For now is Christ risen from the dead, how much I disliked those lilies. What did in Gethsemane, when even His best friends man, unlike the child, has been able to put a the first-fruits of them that sleep." they have to do with the tender pleading of were faithless. I had stood among cen­lot of things together. Although I still don't Happy Easter. Take care of yourselves. the wounds of Christ, or the poignant rebuke turions at the foot of the Cross; and finally, like the plastic-looking lilies. I know what And remember: Darby and I never said we from the Book of Lamentations: "Is it when the Lord died, I went with Him into the the flowers have to tell me of beauty that didn't love you. 
l I 
l
art gallery pl-esents graphic nudes j j steve bennett l ~ The current show of graphic works by aridity." Intense interaction between· 
l Philip Pearlstein in the Notre Dame Art viewer and object is difficult, the figures j j
Gallery is a collection of nude landscapes­mundane in their nudity. 
scenes where the body is handled in the The nude a.; a landscape is a strictly l same way as a sunset or a glimpse of visual phenomenon that bypasses the usual j French countryside. These nudes, both centers of emotional stimulation. It is I drawings and prints, depict bodies, not predicated on compositional relationships I human beings, and their treatment is one of where contours and shapes are primary. I detachment and distance. Emotional in­The bumps and curves of the body are the 
I 
volvement is anything but evident here and equivalent of rolling hills and trees in 
I 
there is no exploitation of the traditional scenery . Significantly, the work of jqualities of the figure. Pearlstein which preceded the nudes was a 
j
When entering a gallery full of nudes, the series of landscapes and studies of rock 
j
initial reaction is generally one of disgust, formations. For the artist, the method of excitement, appreciation or any com­treatment remained the same, only the bination of these elements. In regard to subject matter changed. Pearlstein. thr reactions tend to be muted or The nudes in this show are merely por­altogether absent. In the words of one traits of particular bodies and nothing more. 
commrntator, referring both to the figures The figures have no identities as persons and the viewer reaction, the work of beyond the physical--they are devoid of Pearlstein is pervaded by a "spiritual personality. Any emotional elements brought to these graphics are brought 
·~. \ without the intention of the artist. 
' . l 
Eroticism. if indeed there is any, is merely.... \ hinted at and exists only as an attribute of
\., :-: J 
the particular figure. There is no attempt to primary place of of use characteristics of the figure for
.{ <t'! this century. It is a bland and 1emotionless
psychological ends. As Pearlstein himself . The interest in the real extends beyond the brand of art that wish.es to leave nothing to~~;::'!·~~' says. " .. J have rescued <the figure) from figures to every visual element. Even the Imagmatwn. Unlike Cubism it wishesthe pornographers, and their easy ex­though the c.ompositions are sparse, every to break nothing down. In cont;ast to Ab­ploitations of the figure for its sexual im­depicted entity receives equal treatment. 
stract Expressionism it has no emotionalplications." Rugs, wallboards, pillows, chairs are all impetus. The work of Philip Pearlstein is 

, weighted the same as the figures in the total 
one step away from the "Radical Realism" Them ; Pearlstein employs in co!" position .. With all of the attempts to be of today where artists seek to depict the real an attempt to d!sdow arbitrary choices on fair a11:d un.b•ased as a reporter, however, m a ~ore than ~holographic sense by meansthe part of the artist and contrived the arti~t still makes choices and operates in of grids and slide projection paintings. 

modelling on the part of the posed figure are a. certau~ manner: The result is not un­are not
The nudes of Philip Pearlstein extreme. He mercilessly lights his figures biased VIsual reahty, but visual reality as beautiful, nor are they emotionally exciting 

in such a way that unflattering elements s~e~ through the eyes of a certain in­or sexually arousing. 
In a sense they are cannot hide in shadows. The sittings are dividu~l. No matter how hard Pearlstein bland and boring, treating the body as onelong endurance contests designed to break ~as .tned to be totally committed to an ob­would any physical object. The sheen which down the tendency of models to put forth a Jective portrayal of the nude, the fruits of e~ch body radiates in actuality, just byself that is ego-t!nergized. Even the tho~e efforts are marked by the hand of the VIrtue of the fact that it is or once was apositioning of the figure within the bounds of ~rtist and colored always by his artistic living thing, is left out of this art. Thethe paper is seemingly not dictated by the Judgel?ents whether such judgements are qualities which make the body an excitingartist's designs. Pearlstein simply chooses ~onsc1ous or not. Style manages to manifest and viable artistic entity are absent here, an arbitrary starting point, a hand or foot Itself. 

probably because those qualities go beyond

for example, and continues to draw until the Pearlstein's art is a reaction to the the visual. . 


the observer Wednesday, March 19, 1975 
Concerning academic honesty, 
Council ·declares new policy 
by Mark Jahne 
Staff Reporter As a result of the Academic lUncil meeting on February 11, 
the University now has a new 
··ademic Honesty Policy. This policy features an optional student­' gned form of declaration, to be ;.,!ministered at the beginning of the semester in each course. 
Such a declaration would state the student's conviction not to eheat nor to tolerate cheating by others. If all students in a course 
· agree to this declaration, direct supervision of exams will not be necessary for that course. 
Any student accused of violating academic integrity will be reported by his professo~ in writing to the Honesty Comm1ttee of his department, which will be a standing committee of both facult~ and student membership. Any· studmt found guilty will be able to appeal his decision to his College Dt>an. 
lf the Dean also finds the student has committed an infraction, he may consider the application of disciplinary procedures, which in some cases could go as severe as dismissal from the university. This would occur only in cases of severe or repetitive cheating. Cases of proven guilt will be en­tered into the student's university record. 
This policy originally grew out of concern by the Faculty Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees in October 1973. Fr. Ernan McMullin, who worked on the subcommittee which revised the proposal into a final product, noted, "It does provide an equitable and fairly objective means of determining if the student was at fault. Where cheating is alleged there will be a uniform procedure to handle it." Old problt>ms solved Back in 1968-69, a student Honor 
InPIRG conducts test on IRS income tax advice 
by Hob Greenholgh torms. Some of the government 
Staff Reporter officials did not even know how to 
compute the deductions. In 

A recent test conducted by the Bloomington, for example, ·the Indiana Public Interest Research taxpayer was simply given a Group <InPIRG l has convincingly booklet to analyze and compute his revealed irregularities and in­taxes on his own. Some offices, consistencies in advice given by however, were a little more the Internal Revenue Service and helpful. the Indiana State Department of One cause of the problem stems Revenue to people seeking from the fact that the IRS "stuffs" assistance in filling out tax forms. their tax offices during the tax 
The test, administered in In­season with thousands of unin­dianapolis, South Bend, formed temporary employees. Bloomington, Terre Haute, These employees have no more Muncie, and Richmond, showed than a few weeks training. that government advice can "No wonder," remarked "help" increase taxes unfairly for Kleiser, "that taxpayers paid over some, while it lets others pay less 600 million dollars last year to than they owe. commercial tax agencies like H&R 
Marybeth Kleiser, InPIRG Block. This amounts to an unfair added tax that the taxpayers can't _,;ight to appeal. If he does not
project coordinator, stated that the test results show that "you can 
afford." go to three or four different IRS or "If the government expects the State R'evenue offices, looking for taxpayers to obey the law and then 
THINK 
help and never get the same penalize their mistakes," she answers twice." continued, "Then it is only fair that 
Ca.LEGE LIFE 
"Furthermore," she said, "the they give them whatever help IRS and the State Revenue service that is necessary in order to 
;lN~l.IRANCE CO.ur' AMERICA
Will not stand behind the advice comply with the rules." that their employees give. That is, they won't back up their own work." 
Thus, taxpayers, after going 


Sierra Sports 
through the correct legal channels 
~:'t·~~ 
of filling out their tax returns, are 1 still liable to be "called up" again and asked to pay more money, according to the findings. 
Investigators from : InPIRG 
asked a sample tax question to -MOUNTAIN CLIMBING EQUIP. numerous government offices Carabiners -Pitons -Climbing Ropes around the state and discovered -BACKPACKING & CAMPING GEAR that there were f significant Down Sleeping Bags -Lightweight Tents variations in the same taxes Packs And f<'rames computed. For example, the same Dt>hydrated & Freeze Dried Foods man who would get a $186.40 tax Boots For Men & Women refundfromSouthBend,wouldget -<'AI'iOE & KAYAKS a $585.06 tax refund if he lived in Paddles -Life Jackets 
Indianapolis. Another surprising find was the CALL ---------. 
great difference in ltbe amount / 233 8383 I 
6
~~th~~~:S~ce~~~~i~e: L.~;;;;;;-..-...........;.......·~·M~I~l~~~IA~~~IA!E~:I~IN:G:"
........J 
Council established to judge example, uses information drawn cheating by fellow students from another student's paper disbanded because the members during a test, or who submits a found it difficult to sit in judgement term paper written by someone on classmates and friends. else, is clearly violating academic However, McMullin stated that integrity. But the boundaries are student members under this new not always as easily drawn as in policy will not have this same cases like these; a more specific problem. enunciation of guidelines would be approoriate during Freshman 
As he explained, "The old Honor Orientation, as well as in the Council was student-administered.. Student Manual and in the stated 
In this case the students aren't policies of individual teachers or oflrrying the burden of decision on departments, including those for their own." It is mandatory that advanced students <law, business, these department Honesty Com-and graduate students>. No mittees be both of standing matter how well-drawn the 
committee status and of partial · 
student membership, according to 
the wording of the policy. 
The text of the new Academic 
Honesty Policy is as follows: 
ACADEMIC HONESTY preamble 
The academic community relies upon a high standard of integrity in the relations between its members. 
To the extent that this standard is not maintained, the good of the community suffers, and injustice <sometimes serious injustice) may be done. One of the most im­portant aspects of academic in­tegrity concerns the just measure of each student's academic ac­complishments. These are or­dinarily evaluated through written examination or submitted work. For such modes of assessment to operate fairly, it is essential that the teacher be assured that the work used to evaluate the student's performance is genuinely his own. This is a serious responsibility on the part of the teacher, if his evaluation is to reflect the true accomplishment of the student. 
There is a corresponding responsibility on the part of the student not to deceive the teacher in any way in regard to the authorship of the work he presents as his own. A student who, for guidelines, however, procedures 

are needed· in cases of suspected 
violation in order to ensure that the 
right of all are safeguarded. 
The conduct of examinations 
The proper conduct of examinations poses a special problem for the teacher. In the absence of a University-wide honor 
code, the normal procedure for a teacher is to ·see that his examinations are adequately monitored. Where the teacher can be assured of the integrity of the work being done, the presence of a monitor may, however, be judged to be unnecessary. This would be particularly likely to be the case in small classes or seminars. Lacking such clear assurance, however, the teacher has the responsibility of requiring a more explicit form of adherence to honor principles on the part of his students, if he is to depart from the practice of direct supervision. This is to be insured by distributing to each student at the beginning of the semester a form of declaration in which he pledges honesty in examinations for the course, and promises not to tolerate cheating on the part of others. Students are to be invited to sign the form and return it to the teacher. If any decide not to do so, normal supervision procedures must be followed inexaminations for that course. The teacher should treat each student's decision in this regard as con­fidential. 
If a teacher judges that a student has violated academic integrity in an examination or in work sub­mitted, he must submit a report in writing to the Honesty Committee of his Department. The Com­mittee will then hold a hearing which the teacher and student aare invited to attend. The teacher will present his reasons for believing that a violation has occurred, and the student has the right to respond. Following the presen­tation of evidence, the Committee will make a ruling. Ifit rules that a violation has occurrred, it will also recommend to the teacher an appropriate penalty. The student is informed of the Commtittee's decision. Should the decision be against him, the student has the appeal within a time specified by the Committee a description of the offense, and a report of the Committee's findings and the penalty assessed, are com­municated to the academic Dean of the student. This material is entered in the student's file. 
If the student chooses to appeal, he notifies the Departmental Committee which will then for­ward all documents to the Dean of its own College. The student has the right to appear before the Dean. Should the Dean find in favor of the student, the teacher is to be informed that the charge is dismissed. If the Dean sustains the earlier verdict, the teacher and student are informed, and a report is sent to the student's academic Dean for inclusion in his file. If a semester grade has to be sub­mitted before the completion of this process, an "X" grade should be authorized the Dean's office. 
Jfaurakt ifnust 
When the report of a violation is received by the student's academic Dean he has the responsibility of determining whether an offense of this kind has occurred before. If one has, or if, though a first offense, it is a very serious one, the Dean shall con­sider possible disciplinary action, involving penalties up to dismissal from the University. The Dean thus has two functions in this context: one is to hear appeals regarding offenses in courses offered within his jurisdiction and the other is to take disciplinary action, if necessary, in cases of serious offenses committed by students from his own College. 
Because of the important role played in this matter by the departmental Honesty Committee, it must be a standing committee appointed by the Chairman, and must include student represen­tation. 
"Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
!$!:!:!:~::::::::!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!:=!=:!::::::::!::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
~~~:chicken -Steak -Sandwiches :~:~: 
J~ Friday Nites: Perch Dinners :~~~! 
:a::=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::::::::::;:::::::::=================:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:==============~ 
U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North Your Host (~cross from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards, ND '50. 

IN THE TOWN & COUNTRY MINI MAL 
BEFORE YOU HEAD OFF TO THE SLOPES, 
CHECK OUR SPECIALS 

25% OFF Ski Clothing Hats, Gloves & Socks ALSO­
HAVE YOIJR SKIS TUNED 
REGULARLY $10.00 WITH THIS AD $8.00 
THINK SNOW 
"SPECIAL TV SPORT EXPERTS" 
Wednesday, March 19, 1975 the observer 
9 

Green beer and Irish Whiskey 
Irish make the rounds on St. Patrick's Day 
by Mary Reher Joe Mell, manager. Staff Reporter It had been rumored that Sweeney's would distribute free Does beer really taste better jerseys upon opening at 6 a.m. when it's green? Approximately 30 students rose 
To toast St. Patrick, several early to wait outside the doors, but South Bend bars featured green there were no free jerseys, and the beer and Irish songs last Monday. bar wasn't scheduled toopenfor a ''Throngs" of students tipped their couple of hours. Manager Mary glasses of beer and danced their Looney said she never heard about jigs between tables in the taverns the rumored jersey give-away 
from 6:30 a.m. until 3 the next while the last of the shirts had been morning. sold last Friday. After Corby's opened its doors at By 6:45 a.m. the glass on the 
6:30 Monday morning, an front door of Sweeney's was estimated 250 people had begun to smashed, claimed Looney. "I celebrate by 7:00a.m. according to don't think it was the students who 

Press spends afternoon preparing for conference 
<t·nnlinut•ll fnnn pa~l' :;> 
CThe 
Ford's remarks to the convocation were typed. copied, collated and in the hands of the press by one p.m. The speech ended at noon.) • 
Pri'IHII"ing for Conft'l"l'llCt' 
Tht> majority of the afternoon was spent by ·the members of the Press Corps in preparation for the evening l'ress Conference. The reporters were given numbers from one to 48. corresponding to the order on which they would be called. Members of the White House Press Corps spread the word to those less familiar with the process it would be a rare con­ference if any number over 20 would be called. 
Those within the upper 20, though. had a long afternoon of work ahead of them. Their job was to find a question which would pierce through the rhetoric of the President and bring him to the point of taking a solic position on an issue. which he is not very willing to do. 
One such reporter was Helen Thomas, White House Correspondent for United Press International. Her question, one of the most probing asked Monday evening, concerned the govern­ment's involvement in Cambodia. She began preparing by looking over research material which she had brought from Washington. 
Then, she consulted with other reporters which she felt would be able to give her insight into the situation. Thomas consulted with James Deakin. of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, whom she con­siders "one of the top reporters in the Press Corps." 
She also listened to comments being made by other reporters whose names would not be called that evening, and thus were more· willing to share their ideas for questions. Steve Bell, correspondent for ABC, was one of those willing to share ideas on Cambodia. "That country is a pet issue with me," he said, "since I've been a correspondent there for 
two years." His· question con­
''. 1.
.•' 

cerned "the point where the U.S. would consider it's commitment to the Cambodian Government" no longer feasible in relation to our credibility in other areas of foreign 
affairs, such as the Middle East and Turkey and Cyprus. 
Thomas' question, in the final form, differed in one major distinction from Bell's. She was attempting to have Mr. Ford admit that our involvement in Cambodia was more than just a long-standing commitment, but reflected a major change m foreign policy emphasis. 
(t·tmtinu••d on pagt> IOl 

did it. though. It wouldn't be 
logical for them to break it and then stick around," she stated. "It was probably someone who tried to break in and then ran away." 
Bri dget McGuire's, the Irish bar of South Bend, had three times the business of a normal Friday af­ternoon and night, claimed Matt Bauer, manager From12 to three in the afternoon, some students went outside to sit on the curb and sip their beer until a policeman told them to move back inside, he noted. 
Some men students drowned their inhibitions in drink and began to take off their clothes about 10 
p.m. in Fat Wally's. After being stopped by the management, they left for Uncle Willie's where, an ho\lr later, they again tried to strip, said Charley Merkel, assistant manager of Fat Wally's who dropped in at Uncle Willie's at 
that time. 

The St. Pat's Day crowd at Sweeney's was broadcast over KGOB, a Denver radio station, by a '67 Notre Dame graduate. The people sang Irish songs and a Jew Gle~ Club members who were present sang "My Wild Irish Rose." 
Corby's had the largest St. Pat's group in five years, stated Mell. "It was like a zoo in here, we were so jam-packed. Everybody was elbow-to-elbow inside the bar, and not everybody could fit in. Maybe it was so crowded because of the nice weather and the President's visit," he added. 
With so many people celebrating the occasion, the bars carried on a good deal of business selling beer. !<'at Wally's sold 3,000 beers bet­ween 11 :00 a.m. Monday and 2: 15 the next morning, according to Merkel's figures. 
Looney said, "We thought we had ordered enough beer; we expected a large crowd, but we can only put so much beer in the cooler at one time. That night, though, we were going on our last keg at 11:00 and we had to call up the distributor, waking him up, and order some more to be delivered before we closed for the night," she observed. 
The Senior Bar served Irish Coffee in addition to regular drinks, co-manager Jim Sweedyk said, "It went over well. It was made with real Irish whiskey." 




NICKlE'S 
PRESENTS 
LADIES NIGHT TOMORROW 


(THURSDAY MARCH 20) 
MIXED DRINKS 50 ct Nickie's will be open for .business as usual .during spring break. ' .. 
He noted that the crowd thinned out about 8 p.m., so the Club closed. The management had planned to have an Irish show with kilt-dancers but the entertainment was unable to come and perform, he added. 
Most of the bar managers thought the people made "good drinking crowds and weren't too rowdy, in general." Most of the people were "orderly" and merely out to have a good time. 
Looney said that one male student had told her he was only 1~ after he had gotten into the bar and had bought a pitcher. "In order to get him to leave, I refunded his $2.(101 and gave him a 25 cent sandwich. I later found out that it was someone else's pitcher and he conned me into giving him $2.00 and giving him a sandwich out of the goodness of my heart." 
Whenever people and beer get together, a clean-up campaign must follow, especially this year. When students return to the bars after the cleaning, "They'll never even know there was a St. Patrick's Day here," said one bar owner. 

THURSDAY, APRIL 3 8 P.M. Elliott Hall of Music, West lafayette Tickets -$3.50 
Send name and address, stamped self-addressed envelope and check payable to Purdue University to: PRESERVATION HALL, Hall of Music Box Office, Purdue University, W. Lafayette, 1 N 47907 


I ~ 
10 the observer Wednesday, March 19, 1975 
Briefings and filings busy press corps while at Notre Da1ne 
(l'ctlllilllll'd frotn ll:lgt• !II 
After settling on the topic of the 
qm•stion .. Thomas worked the rest of the afternoon on the word king. She consulted again with Deakin. and when she was finally satisfied 
with the question she waited for the conference. 
Thomas was named second on the list, and her question followed Jack Colwell's of the South Bend Tribune, which concerned any additional appointments for I<'ather Hesburgh. 
"Mr. President, you have said the question of personalities is n•ally not vital to a settlement in Cambodia. My question is, is the survival of the non-Communist Jovernment in Cambodia vital to the U.S." 
Through careful wording, Thomas enticed the President into admitting I) that he was not planning to withdraw our forces from Cambodia, and 2) that his administration has resurrected the "domino theory" in respect to foreign relations. This theory was a prime factor in our initial in­volvement in Vietnam. 
Press C'onrerence 
Much of the news that is reported during a Prsidential trip is gathered quickly, and reported on­the-run. An example of this oc­curred Monday evening. 
• Shortly after the President's Press Conference, two young men broke into the press filing room, commandeered the microphone and began shouting. Most of the reporters could not understand what was being said, and con­tinued with their work. Those who were close to the podium or the speakers at the center of the room heard what the two invaders had to say, and hollered for them to be quiet. 
When the two men burst in, Joe McGowan, Associated Press In­dianapolis Bureau Chief, tore the copy having to do with the press conference from his typewriter and wrote this story as the event was happening. <The story ap­pears with his permission.) 
;::,vUTH BEND <AP> -'fwo young
I 
men forged into the working press
I 
! 
room Monday evening following Prsident Ford's news conference~ Monday evening following President Ford's news conference and momentarily disrupted work with proclamation on behalf of the Communist-backed U.S. Labor 
Party."Attention please, attention
t 
please," said one young man at a 
~ 
public address microphone. As the 
a 
room momentarily quieted, he
l 
said, "I want to tell you about the 
bloodbath that is being set up in
• 
Portugal." 

The working newsmen shouted lor the man to be qui~~ and he responded, "This is the U.S. Labor Party. This is not gum-chewing 
i 
Jerry," a reference apparently to President Ford. 
Two secret service agents and a University information official asked if they were working press or Notre Dame students. When they replied negatively, they were asked to leave. 
One of the two identified himself 
as Ed Waffle, U.S. Labor Party 
candidate for mayor of Chicago. 

He said he is 26 and a native of 
Chicago. 

The two left and the normal 
press bedlam resumed. 

Afte~ filing their stories on the 
press conference, the members of 
thl' Press Corps settled down for a 
meal in the dining area, and free 
drinks provided by the University 
Information Services with a 
"Happy St. Patrick's Day" at­
•.ached. 

It wasn't long before the press 
relaxed and began to sit in small 
groups, telling stories, playing 
cards, reflecting on the visit, or 
just resting their mionds. Some 
members of the press crept off to 
]Uiet corners of the CCE to catch a 
.1ap. 

Judging from several con­versations with members o.f the White House Press Corps, it was a rlormal day for those who travel with the President. 
Helen Thomas, White House correspondent with United Pres:; International, commented that President Ford's reception at the Convocation was "one of the warmest I've seen in con­temporary times, especially on a college campus." 
"The President could never have visited a college campus during the Johnson or Nixon years," she said,"but then Ford is different from either of these Presidents. And the atmosphere at univer­
sities has changed. He had a good reception at Ohio State, where he spoke last week." 
Thomas attributed the change in attitude to the "less tormented" atmosphere on campuses. "The country is no longer at war, and the young people are not so actively involved with politics as such." 
Peter Hackes, Washington Correspondent for NBC, said that "this was the bsest reception that Ford has had ina long time." He indicated that he felt the Con­
vocation was "more like a football 
rally, the speeches were mostly 
rhetoric." 

Hackes showed interest in the 
difference between the student 
reception as it was depicted inthe 
Observer and the reception as it 
actually occurred. !'It may be that 
those who were protesting just 
didn't show up, or that there were 
just a lot of people who wanted to 
see the President," he said . 

"Even if there were people who walked out," he continued, "it was hard to tell because of the crowds. Just as a seat was vacated, someone came in and filled it. It was hard to tell if a person was 
.valking out or going to the 
oathroom." 
"You have to realize that it's all 
part of political games," Hackes 
stated. "I really don't care for the 
President .trav~lin~t all over thge 
country at our expense. He goes to 
toot his own horn, sell his 
)rograms, etc. It's all politics." 
Final Briefing 
The final event of the day for the Press Corps was a briefing by Press Secretary Ron Nessen, concerning the ;governor's dinner. Nessen held the briefing in the CCE auditorium. He returned from the dinnerwith three of the attending governors, and a cop;y of 1-Iesburgh 's "Humane Tm­Jerative" under his arm. After a ·ew opening remarks, he allowed 
he governors to make their own 
>ummaries of the dinner. 
Almost immediately the once­relaxed press went into action. They grasped the chance to question the governors about President Ford's remarks. The briefing had turned into a press conference and Secretary Nessen appeared a little bit nervous that the governonrs would say something "out of order." 
After a period of about fifteen minutes of fairly intense questioning, which caught the Secretary and the three governors off their guard, Nessen attempted to halt the briefing. Reporters jumped up, saying "just one more question, Ron." The meeting went for ten minutes more, with reporters pulling questions from the back of their minds that ap­peared to have been nestling there for months, waiting for action. 
The Wrap-up 
Nessen asked the reporters now 
long they needed to "file", for after completing this task, they would return to the press bus for the long 
ride home. 
' _..ake it sing," they remarked 
to each other. As the Auditorium 
emptied out, ABC correspondent 
Tom Jarriel set up with his camera 
crew for his on-camera report. He 
glanced at his notes from the 
briefing, and at the remarks he 
had prepared form the day's ac­
tivities. 
"Take One," the cameraman 
shouted, and Jarriel began to 
speak, only to be interrupted by a 
shout from the hall. 
"Okay, try again. Take two." Jarriel, in clear television voice, voice, serene pose and strong tone, spoke for four minutes on the President's visit, capsulizing almost perfectly the highlights of the day. His speech carried a rhythm of ease, almost too per­fectly leveled, but reflective of the well-orchestrated, even quality of the day. "This is Tom Jarriel, 4.BC News, Notre Dame, Indiana," ne concluded. 
"That's a wrap." 
1974-1975 
FOOTBALL & BASKETBALL 

POSTERS 
for •ale Dy THE OBSERVER See the display in the Huddle 

SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PAR~NTS OR VISITORS 
$6s~5 1 $895 
mg e occupancy 'Double OCCUJ)a11Cy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. 
HICKORY INN MOTE' 
50520 U.S. 31 North 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 '3 rr.iles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V .. Air Cond., _Phones. 
Send this ad to your parents. 
SPECIAL HOLY WEEK SCHEDULE 
(Main Church) 
PASSION (PALM SUNDAY) 
5:15 pm Sat  Fr. Bob Griffin, CSC  
9:30 am Sun  Fr. Edward Malloy, CSC  
10:30 am Sun  Fr. Oliver F. Williams, CSC  
12: 15 pm Sun  Fr. Bill Toohey, CSC  
HOLY THURSDAY  
5:00pm  Fr. William M. Lewers, CSC  
GOOD FRIDAY  
3:00pm  Fr. James T. Burtchaell, CSC  
HOLY SATURDAY  
11:00 pm  Fr. Gene Gorski, CSC  
EASTER SUNDAY  
9:30am Sun  Fr. Len Banas, CSC  
10:45 am Sun  Fr. John C. Gerber, CSC  
12:15 pm Sun  Fr. Bill Toohey, CSC  

. 
MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES 

2 FILMS 
* 
BOOKSTORE 

* 
LIVE 
FLOOR SHOW 


1316 souTH MICHIGAN sTREET 

~ .:.· ··: & the Observer~ office :\!\~(.. ~.;~;:\ • ~}... ~:1:1-_L 2a2-12ot> .FoR INFORMATJON 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ~~~~~~~~~~~y~~-~.~•~:~.~~(~ ~ .~ . •. . '·,I .J~~ . ~~·.
9 
'"' .. • • I ~ .. ' " ' • ' "l • ~ ' • • "'t' -' '"' ' .,-' •, • • 
•' I. I I I 1' ~ 
. 



~-------------------------~ ----~--­
..
r 
Wednesday, March 19, 1975 the observer 
11 

Baseball team heads to Texas over break 
by Rich Odioso 
Dallas-Fort Worth is the destination as Jake Kline's Notre Dame baseball team takes off Friday for its annual spring trip. In Texas the Irish will compete in seven doubleheaders in eight days. 
Operating out of their headquarters on the campus of Texas Weleyan, Notre Dame opened its season Saturday after noon at the University of Dallas. Sunday the Irish rest before beginning a stretch of six twin bills in as many days. Starting Monday the Irish play host Texas Wesleyan, Dallas Baptist, Texas­Arlington, SE Oklahoma State, Plano and Nebraska-Omaha. 
The Irish are hopeful of im­proving last season's 18-21 mark after finishing 1974 with seven eonsecutive victories. The key to any Irish improvementthis year is the pitching staff which boasts several talented but untested new arms. One proven pitcher is junior right-hander Bob Stratta, from Olympia Fields, Ill., who was 7-3 last year with a sparkling 2.50 ERA. Stratta won his last six decisions in 1974 including shutouts of Bowling Green and Valparaiso. 
A Pair of New Jersey left­
banders Bob Hughes and Don 
Wolfe are expected to provide the 
Irish with the southpaw hurling 
Notre Dame lacked last year. 
Freshman Joe Karpowicz is a 
Cheerleaders set 
tryouts dates 
Tryouts for the 1975-76 Notre Dame cheerleading squad will begin on Sunday, April 6 at 12+30 
p.m. 
in Stepan Center. Tryouts will continue throughout the week. Monday's sessions will be held in Stepan, while the remainder of the sessions will be held at the A.C.C. in the pit. Sessions will last from 6 

p.m. 
until completion. 


"Sunday afternoon's session 
we'II use to teach girls and guys 
mounts, partner stunts, tumbling 
and the mini-tramp and the girls 
dance routines," said incoming 
captain Mary Ann Grabavoy. 
"Requirements for tryouts include 
jumps for both guys and girls besides the other things." 
According to the schedule, the first cuts will be made after Monday's session in Stepan. The field will eventually be narrowed down to 12 guys and 12 girls before final selections. There are six places for guys and five for girls 
open. 
"We're looking forpeople with desire and especially potential," said Grabavoy. "We want talented people who haven't peaked yet and therefore will develoP. 
"This year there will be outside judges selecting. In order to keep it objective and as fair as possible we need to gather the opinions of outside people in order to deter­mine how those trying out would appeal to the crowd." 
Tryouts are open to all St. Mary's and Notre Dame girls as well as Notre Dame guys. Those interested should contact Mary Ann Grabavoy. 
LaCrosse team 

heads to Florida 
The Notre Dame LaCrosse team will travel to Florida over the spring break with three games scheduled during their stay. 
Monday. March 24 the Irish will take on MIT at 2 p.m. at the University of Miami. The Irish will next face Florida In­ternational University on Wed­nesday, Marcp 26at FlU. ,The final . 
1
···~· gamt· is agamst the Ui1iversi~·of 
~ l\li{lmi on Friday, .Mar~h.2Jla.t th~ University of Miami again. 
seasons. Shortstop Jim Smith is 
another three-year starter who hit 
a team-high four homers while 
batting .283. In the field he is a 
spectacular is sometimes erratic 
fielder. Pat Coleman came into his 
own as a third baseman last year 
fielding capably, while ripping out 
a .347 batting average. 
Senior Tony Iarocci has the inside track for the catcher's job ahead of Dick Doemel and Dave DeFacci while senior Tommy Miller is battling sophomore Frank Fiasecki at second base. A. should see action on the trio. 
The Irish outfield will be almo totally revamped. Mike O'Ne. used mainly as a designated bitt< last year is expected to play rig: while newcomer Stan Bobows appears ready to take over center. Stratta an excellent hitte will probably play the outfiel when he isn't pitching wit. sophomore Mike (; •llowa figuring to see plenty of ion a both an outfielder and des1gnate hitter. 

promising right-hander joining returning hurlers Mitch Stoltz, Jim Sholl, Paul Morrisseau and Joe Buran in completing what promises to be the best Irish staff in years. 
At the plate the Irish hope to match last year when they rapped 
! out a .279 team average. Three of the top four hitters return, all part of the infield that turned a team record 40 doubleplays. Captain Mark Schmitz holds down first base for the. third straight year. A line drive hitter, Schmitz has batted over .300 each of the last two 

CORPS OF PASSION 1ST VOLUNTEERS 
SUMMER OF '75 
CATHOLIC YOUNG MEN. AGE 18-25. Experience Community life and Service. Projects in Mexico, Appalachia, Indian Reservations. Contact: 
... 
Brother Kevin O'Malley, C.P. 
Corps of Passionist Volunteers 
5700 N. Harlem Ave. 
Chicago, Ill. 60631 
·····················~ ~····················· 


!This Week Wed., Fri., Sat.,:
•
i 
i 
i 
•
•
•
•
• 
•
•
•
• •
•
•
•
•
•
• 
THIRD POWER 


SYMPHONY 

No Cover Wed. 
• 
: 
i 
i 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
i 
•
• 
a.m~: 

COACH JAKE Kline and star pitcher Bob Stratta go over preparation for their spring break schedule in Texas. (Photo by Paul Joyce) 

Extra Points 
!nmtinnt•d l'nun page 12) 
"Another problem as I see it, is the problem of late hitting and resultant bad aftermath ·on the icing calls. Possibly the rule may be changed to automatic icing, as soon as the puck crosses the red line the whistle is blown. That would speed up the game and eliminate wasted time, while stopping those stupid late hits." 
These changes are by no means definite, but Quinn and Gilray, as well as every coach and player, knows that something must be done to keep the sticks on the ice, for the players' sakes and the game of hockey's
sake. · 
Graduate Student Union 
Announces GENERAL MEETING MARCH 20~ 1975 

LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
12:20 pm 

Open to the General Public 
SOUTH BEND'S IRISH PUB 

~~.t, o~' .t,.z-.lrc ST~~" 

NOW SERVING GYROS (A GREEK SPECIALTY) AND OTHER FINE FOOD 
ALSO YOOR FA\ORITE BEER, WNEAND COCKTAILS ACROSS FRC»A­


"..........".
·• · " •.••y,. GOOD OLD CORB 
i 2046 South Bend Ave. 
•

!Monday Beer Nite 8 p.m. · 2 
• 



CLASSIFIED RDS 
WANTED  
Sherry and Chicago for  Beth need break. Call  a 4211.  ride  to  
Desperately  need  ride  for  two  to  

Pittsburgh Friday. Call Colette, 5786. 
Ride needed to NYC or east for spring break. Desperate. Call 3407 or 4519. 
Need someone to care for puppy over break. Will pay. 287-3592. 
Rider needed to Beaumont, Texas, for break. Call Estelle, 8125. 
NOTICES 
South Quad liturgy, 11:00 PM, Morrissey Chapel Lenten Mass. Refreshments will follow. 
"Clarence Darrow" starring Henry Fonda at Morris Civic Auditorium, April 3, 4, and 5. Good tickets now on sale at the Student Union Ticket Office for all performances. $1.00 student discount for Thursday night performance. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: SMC class ring, Sunday night. Desperate, call 4436. 
Lost: pearl ring, Rockne Memorial Monday. Reward. 7891. 
Lost: grey glasses in tan case. Reward. Please call 7884. 
PERSONAL!!. 
Starbaby, ... , Happy .B.irthday YO"-' ,.,lay ·,be· older 
. but tha.ftw'Pn't ~~\f;~l~d·v.o\) ..:tan;., ~ny better. 
·, . ..,_, •
Bob Wounded but still decent girl in Angers France would like to apply tor job of Durante-impersonator. Send inquiries to M. Hayes, c-o Home for Disabled Geeks, NO's Angers address. 
Maryann: Sorry, was best 1 could do. Avec passion, The Kid 
Casey of Pangborn: Bum us. No reason file yourself and the kids. 
514 G.A.S. 
South Bend seems a horrible place To stay just to train for a race. But we'll all row together In warm(?) sunny(?) weather(?) And sweatsuits all covered with grease. (sorry, no cherry trees) 
Dear Mom and Dad, It's my 21st and I wish I could be with you. Remember that I share all the joy and love of the day with you in my heart. 
Much love, Terry 
To the Observer Staff: Have a good break and a Happy Easter. 
Love, Mom 
Senior Partner, Bert, Munk, Ralph, the Wizard, Snip, John, the an­swering services of 1022 and 315, Mo, Big Bri, Junior Partner, Stan, Steve, Blake, Drew, Jim, Darl, Lark, the 150 at "the desk" and Flan. Thanks tor everything. Ain't it about time? 
The Coach 
Fancy Nancy, r .Happy ~1! How)about dinner, Asti ·;~,~pumal')ti. and. ·a lonnng secret 
secret. . · 
.. -.... , .. w-R·:) f'.redford )..~..--' ., .. ' 
.• 

,. 
...!.1~2=---_.!eth~e~o:!:b~s~e~r:....v.:.....::e:..:..r_____.!W:!.:ed=n~esd=ay, -~rch 19, 1975 
•




Irish battle Terps 1n Las Cruces 
b_y Bill Brink 
Fortunately for Digger Phelps and his Fighting Irish cagers you don't play a basketball game on pap!'r. Ikcause their next game in tht> N<'AA tournamt>nt is against 1\luryland, and on paper the TPrrilptns look unbeatable. 
lndl·Pd. thP Irish's advancement 
to I ,as< 'run•s. New Mexico and the 
l\1 idwt•st regional Thursday night 
pits tr ,.m against some pretty 
1mpr .. lvt• statistics. Maryland 
lor lht• yt•ar sports a 23-4 record, 
an•ragt•s !l0.4 points a game and 
~hoot~ .S52 from the field as a 
!Pam. In fact. only two of their top 
ten playt•rs shoot under 50 percent 
and six of thPir players average in 
doubll' figurl's. So much for 
lwating the Tt>rps on paper. 
But l'ht'lps and his players are l'xcitl'd about their rematch with tht• Tl'rrapins, confident that they can beat them on the court. l\1arland beat the Irish 9G-82 back on .January 4 at College Park, 1\larvland but ND is a different 
ll'am now. playing them in a dif­
fl'rt>nt place and the battle should 
prove to bt.> the most interesting of 
the sixteen-tt•am slate set for 
tomorrow night. 
If the Tt>rps can put into practice what they put on paper they will undoubtedly be tough. All­Amt>rican guard John Lucas is the big gun. avt.>raging 19.0 points per gamt> and having scored 23 against the Irish in their first meeting this vt>ar. Maurice Howard is another ;lout-!~ figun•s scorer at guard and added 18 points in the Terrapins winning t>frort. 
But Maryland is expected to start hig. going with the height of 


Tom Hov, Owen Brown and Steve Sht•ppard. Brown was devastating against he Irish in their first game, pouring in 22 points, while senior l{oy added 15 and grabbed 18 rt>bounds. Sheppard, ineligible last year, has come on to average 
14.7 i>.p.g., st.>cond on the Maryland team. Frl'shman guard Brad Davis has coml' on strong lately. avt'raging 12.6 p.p.g. and shooting .s9:l from the field. 
Maryland finds themselves in 
the · NCAA Midwest regional due to their loss to North Carolina State in the wacky Atlantic Coast Conference pl~yoffs. They defeated Creighton 83-79 · on Saturday afternoon in their first tournaml'nt game. 
D11spite the Terp.s impressive statistics. the Irish are no pushovers themselves, having handed Kansas a convincing 77-71 defeat in Tulsa Saturday af­ternnon. The key to the win was Pht.>lps' brilliant move to the four­corners offense with a little over t'leven minutes left to go in the gamt.>. After that the Irish pulled away from the Jayhawks, withstanding even their final rally to capture the victory. 
Leading scorer Adrian Dantley is again t•xpected to be Notre Dame's main scoring punch, having contributed a game-high 33 points against Kansas. Phelps and looking for a repeat performance 


The Irish Eye 

ST. LOUIS--Much more goes on at NCAA final round tournaments than just the actual deciding contest in the sport. The NCAA hockey tour­nament this past weekend at St. Louis was no different. 
The games, the official meetings, the fans, the bands, the arena, and the pro scouts are all part of the scene at St. Louis. But first the games. 
In the opening semifinals last Thursday, the Crimson of Harvard almost pulled the major upset no one expected. Midway through the second period, the scoreboard blazed: Harvard 4, Minnesota 1. Harvard was able to swarm around the net of the Gophers and capitalize on Minnesota defensive mistakes for their scores. 
• The Gophers' Warren Miller decided he wanted that national title again and took the Gophers out of the hole on thestrength of his final period !tat trick, giving Minnesota a thrilling 6-4 win. Michigan Tech blitzed the Boston University Harriers for nine goals in the other semifinal tilt, coming away with a 9-5 decision. The speed, size, and shots displayed by the Tech Huskies were just too much for the quick, but small Eastern representative. What was initially built up to be the rematch of the season, pitting the same finalists of a year ago in Boston, turned out to be lopsided, boring college hockey game. A Michigan Tech fan hung a sign high in the raft~rs which told the whole story of their victory, "Jesus saves and D'Alvtse gets the rebounds." . . . Tech skated with determination and walked away wtth a convmcmg 6-1 win over defending champs Minnesota. Capitalizing on those rebounds which Minnesota goaler Larry Thayer so obligingly gave away were D'Aivise, Mike Zuke, George Lyle, Scott Jessee, and Bill Steele. . . The actual difference in the Tech victory may have been the supenortty of Huskie goalie Jim Warden, but even Warden himself knew that the thousand or so crazy Tech fans were a big factor in taking home the first place cup. As soon as the game's final buzzer went off, Warden raised his stick in the ecstasy of victory, pointing to the mass of mad-dogs from Houghton. . . 
From Michigan Tech to St. Louis Arena IS close to a 16 hour dnve, but that didn't stop the Huskies' fans, bedecked in their black and yellow overalls and floppy hats. 
If you're after sophisticated cheers, forget about the Tech method. But put a thousand Michigan Tech hockey fan~tics tog~ther in the NC~A finals and even thinking becomes a chore, wtth the din of constant nmse well above the breaking point. 
Don't forget about the Tech pep band, dressed completely in black ~nd yellow stripes, seemingly playing the Tech theme song. every third number. The song--the Budweiser tune. After all what else IS there to. do in Houghton, the northern part of Michigan's Upper Peninsula, but drmk 
.. beer and watch Huskie hockey? For all the Tech fans, the expense, the missed classes, the long drive, and all those big 'M' burgers was all worth it, when NCAA hockey com­mittee chairman John Macomb said, "The 1975 collegiate hockey champions, the Michigan Tech Huskies ... " . . And finally NCAA tournament time spells rule changmg meetmgs. The two supervisors of referees, in the West Bob Gilray and in t~e East Joe Quinn, discussed at length with the Ice Hockey Rules Committee about changes many felt are necessary. . 
The major item of concern was the recent rash this year of players using their sticks as instruments of attack, rather than of scormg and 
~~iq. . . 
"The fights are not a big cause of worry, because most fights are JUSt pushing·and shoving, but those sticks, that's all together different,". he
... 
noted. "We are talking about making high-sticking a five minute maJor penalty wheq contact is made at the shoulder level and above. 
I("lllltirult'!l un pagt> Ill 
by frt•shman Dave Batton, who pumped in 18 points in the Irish's winning pffort while grabbing six rebounds. Again the Irish are l'xpected to go with their' zone lineup. eonsisting of Jeff Car­penter, Dave Batton, Toby Knight 
and regulars Pa!t•rno.  Dantley and  Bill  
The  learn  is  scheduled  to  

practice this afternoon and then depart for Las Cruces at 6 p.m. <;amp timt• Thursday night is set for 10 p.m. on national TV, the lndiana-OrPgon St. game sehPdult>d before it. 
Should the Irish defeat Maryland, they would on to play the winner of tile Cincinnati Louisville game. If they would win that gaml' they would move on to 
Netmen defeat 
WMU in opener 
by John Vincent 
The Notre Dame tennis team opened its 1975 season by defeating a young, scrappy Western Michigan squad 6-3 at the Kalamazoo YMCA courts Satur­day night. It was the 19th such opener for head coach Tom Fallon. 
In singles the Irish got help from sophomore Randy Stehlik, senior Chris Kane, and Ron and Juan Incha uste. Stehlik easily outplayed Den Lueweburg of Western Michigan 6-4, 6-2 in second singles action. The victory gave thesouthpaw from Peru, Inp. a total of 24 career victories. 
In the fourth slot, Ron Inchauste outlasted Scott Schultz of Western Michigan in a three set match. Schultz captured the first set 6-1, but Inchauste roared back to dispose of him 6-4, 7-5. 
Chris Kane defeated Western Michigan's Bob Learman in fifth singles. Kane dropped the first set 3-6, but then fought back to take 6-3 and 6-4 decisions in the second and third rounds. 
Notre Dame's Juan Inchauste outfought and out-hustled WM's Fritz Dwyer to gain 6-2 and 7-6 victories in a straight two-set match. Inchauste recorded a 24-3 mark last year for the best winning percentage on the club while playing in the same sixth spot. 
In doubles action Kane teamed with Notre Dame' captain John Carrico to defeat Tony Lamerato and Bob Learman 6-3 and 7-6. In second doubles, Stehlik combined with freshman Brian Hainline to crush Den Leuweburg and Jim Ruck 7-6, 6-2. Hainline dropped his singles match to Buck, 6-7, 7-6, 6-1. 
The tennis squad leaves next Monday to participate in the Galveston Island Invitational at· Texas. Their first home match will be on April 8 against Indiana. 
the final four in San Diego, 
l'entrating on one game at a time. 
probably facing UCLA and then 
But teams like Maryland also make 
Indiana. 
that a disconcerting prospect too. With games like that to look If the Irish ean play them on the forward to. you can't blame court. and not of paper, they should 
Digger and his players for con-be all right. 



%Observer 






Sports 

Extra Points 
...... ~............... 
.. .. .. .. .. . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..... .. .. .. --.---.--.----.. . . .. . ks
·!·!•!(•!•!•!•!•!•!•:·:::'·:~:-:-:-:·:·:·:·:~:·:·:·:,:·:;:·:·:~=~-~=;:~:~=~~-«~m..~~====·~·===·=·:· 
Nc~ pl c 
The number of NCAA final four hopefuls was cut exactly in half last week as the tourney got under way. And among the 16 eliminated, four left via the upset. Marquette was semi-surprised and UCLA came within a Kupec basket of lowing in the first round. 
tlpset victims Penn, LaSalle, Furman and Utah State will have to wait until next year while Boston College, Syracuse:Kansas State and Mon­tana go a lucky step further. 
The first round of the regionals begin Thursday night and among the action there will be two nationally televised games: Indiana and Oregon State at B, and Notre Dame-Maryland at 10. 
The Irish Eye's picks: 
East at Provi!lf'n('l' 
K:111sas Statt" ovt>r Boston College: The Eagles an· lucky to be in the tournament. much less the second round. But then again so is Kansas State K -State should take it. Brink: Kansas State 
North Cat·olina ovt"r Syracuse: The Tar Heels are as unpredictable as the Orangement of Syracuse. Both should be predictable this Thursday though. North Carolina should win and Syracuse should lose. Brink: 
North Carolina. 
1\lidl'ast at Oavton 
Kt>ntuckJ onr f'l'ntral Michigan: The Wildcats better make the most of this one because next they'll have to face Indiana. Kentucky. Brink: Kt•ntucky. 
Indiana ovet· ('(•ntral Michigan: This could be an interesting contest t>specially since the Hoosiers are playing without Scott May. If they're on, though, they won't need him. And IU should be on. Brink: Indiana 
l\lidwt•st at Nt"w Mt"xico State 
Louisville ovt>t' Ci'lcinnati: UC has lost to the Cardinals before and if Dt>nny Crum hasJunior Bridgeman and everybody else ready to play, Cincinnati's Cinder alia hopes will end here. Brink: Louisville. 
Mar.vland over Notrt> Dame: The Irish may possibly be better than the Tcrps at this point. One thing for certain is that they are much improved over the last time the two teams met. Nonetheless, it 'If b<:> Louisville and Maryland on Saturday. Brink: Notre Dame. 
\\'est at Portland 
Arizona Statt" over Nt>vada-Las Vegas: The Sun Devils are too hot for Jerry Tarkenian's team to handle. They want a crack at UCLA. Brink: Arizona State. 
l1CLA ovt"r Montana: It's ridiculous to think that Big Sky conference team will knock off a Pac-8 winner. Still, weirder things have happened like the Big Ten, runnerup almost beating the Pac-8 winner. But again, it'll be UCLA. Brink: UCLA. 


