

With mid-semester break 
Calendar change possible 
by Ed Hoslnl Sta H Reporter 

September 8th is the unofficial date for classes to begin for the 1976-77 academic year, and it appears that there is a possibility to change the calendar for a pre­Labor Day start, according to Academic Commissioner, Mike Gassman. 
Gassman mentioned that the Academic Council that established the guidelines for the 1976-77 school year. may consider another calendar for next year. Since the 1976-77 calendar has not yet been ratified by St. Mary's, the proposed calendar is only ten­tative. Gassman added the date of the Charismatic Conference would probably be noted by the Academic Council but it would have no direct effect to the Council's decision. Gassman stated that "if the council changed the calendar, then the conference would have to be rescheduled." 
Gassman agreed that if a new 
Co-ed housing topic of SLC discussion 

by Eileen O'Grady 
Starr Reporter 

The SLC met yesterday mainly to discuss the matters of co-ed housing, academic honesty and off-campus community relations. 
John DiPietro, speaking for the Planning and Policy Community, stated his committee was presently working on two areas: co-ed housing and academic honesty. 
A co-ed housing sub-committee was formed following up the COUL report's recommendations as presented to the Board of Trustees a few weeks ago. Student SLC representative Ed Van Tassel was nemed chairman of this committ-Pe. 
DiPietro said the sub-committee has three main objectives. "First an empirical study would be <·onducted to determine the type of interest and response a co-ed living ~;itualion would generate among 
students," he stated.

r Next, this infqrmation would be evaluated by university members. "The committee would also compare co-ed progams in effect at other universities and colleges," DiPietro added. Finally, the. committee would formulate alternative plans for implementing co-ed housing at Notre Dame. Anyone wishing to make suggestions or give their opinions about co-ed housing at Notre Dame should call Van Tassel at 3313. 
.......... ~ .~ikt. 
~ ~·~· . 
.~...~:... 
I.-~· 
k 

calendar was introduced, there things that are floating in the air 
would be a definite possibility that it would provide for a mid­semester vacation. "The academic affairs of the university come first, and the conferences come second," he stated. 
Since the Notre Dame Academic \Council had decided last year that subsequent school years would 
have a post-Labor Day start, the National Men's Shepherds Con­ference (Charismatic Renewal> was scheduled for Aug. 24-28, 1976. The 10,000-13,000 members ex­pected for the conference will require campus facilities, in­cluding the university's dor­mitories. 
Mr. Richard A. Emge, Asst. Director of the Center for Con­tinuing Education, said that he and others were in the process of determining whether the Charismatic Conference would be held at an earlier date. Emge stated a definite date for the conference should be decided on by the end of this month; "Some 
DiPietro also outlined the Planning and Policy Committee's report on academic honesty. The committee intends to distribute a campus-wide "communique" stating their policies. 
"We wish to re-emphasize the ideal that the very essence of an academic institution seems to include, as a root principle, a high regard for personal honesty and integrity," DiPietro stated. 
He also added that academic honesty and integrity must come from thewhole community. "The life ol honor at Notre Dame must be an indivisible, shared responsibility," he said. 
Doug Stephenson, speaking for the Off-Campus and Community Relations Committee, enumerated their plan to integrate off-campus students more in the community. 
"We want to establish lines of communiation between neigh­borhood group leaders and students in their area," Stephenson said. "We would be using boundaries of neighborhood 
groups as boundaries for our purposes. In areas where there are no boundaries, we will create them," he added. 
"The plan will make students aware that they do have neighbors and it is also a way for people in the community to contact us," he described. 
"I can think of nothing but good that will come out of it," Stephenson added. 
Fr. Tom Tallarida, Director of Off-Campus Housing, presents the Proprietor's Manual which his office has drawn up. The manual, designed to aid landlords, Is available from the Student Affairs Office, room 315 of the Main Building. (Photo by Paul Clevenger) should be settled by Nov. 24th." 
Both the conference and regular classes could not possibly function simultaneously. Mr. Emge commented the conference would necessitate the use of such buildings as the ACC, Stephan Center, O'Shaughnessy Hall, the Engineering Building, Washington Hall and LaFortune Student Center. 
As for accomodating guests, Mr. Emge added that in 1972, the 12,000 people attending the conference filled every university residence hall, dormitories at St. Mary's, Holy Cross FJr. College, Valparaiso University and all the motels in the South Bend area. 
Mr. John F. Plouff, Managing Director of the ACC, said he had no information at all as to whether the conference date could be changed. Plouff added all in­formation pertaining to the rescheduling of conventions would be known by the University Calendar Office first. 



unrversity of notre dome st. mary's college
Vol. X, No. 51 

Wednesday, November 12, 1975 

AFROTC students like program 
by Bob Mader Campus Editor 
Second in series 
Most of the students in the Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps like the way the program is structured and administered. 
However, a few have complained of being overworked. One junior engineering student said he'll ~e required to carry a 23-credlt course load. 
Course of Study 
Freshmen and sophomores take one credit courses dealing with Air Force history. Freshmen study the role of the Air Force, Air Force mission and doctrine, and the major air commands within the service. Sophomores delve into the history of air power and the impact of technology. 
Juniors take three hours courses on U.S. defense policy, strategy of national defense policy, and socialization into the Air Force and sources of Air Force officers. 
Seniors study management an" organizational theory. 
Cadet Commander Frederick Roggero described the freshman courses as being "A-B". Junior Government and International Studies major Christopher Stuhldreher said he doesn't feel overworked. 
On the other hand, junior Larry Merrington said he "feels like he's beating his head against the wall." Merrington will be requir~ to carry 23 hours next semester. "It's going to be rough," he said. "I have 19 now and I need four more like I need a hole in the head." Merrington said he feels his first priority is his education and he'll probably drop some of his staff duties with ROTC. 
Another junior engineering 

, major said the officers are overly demanding. "In the past it was Notre Dame first and Air Force second. Now it's the other way around," he said. He'll haveto take 21 hours next semester. "It's get­ting to be much more like the Air Force Academy," the student remarked. 
All of the instructors must have a master's degree and volunteer for ROTC duty, according to Captain George Finan. Also, the in­structors teach topics within their major field. 
"Harvard and Berkeley have just restarted their programs," Finan said, "so the instructors have to be good because they're under the gun to start with." 
Student-instructor relationships are good according to cadets. 
"I don't feel any friction," Merrington said. "I don't feel I have to play kiss up to an officer. They all put on their pants the same way you do." 
Roggero noted that the unit gets involved in community services projects such as Big Brothers and Sisters. The instructors also get involved, according to Roggero, resulting in a great deal of in­formal contact between officers and students. 
*
Observer 

Insight 
Tne unit has sufficiently mast­ered drill and will not drill again until Spring, Stuhldreher said. He stressed that drill is important.as a self-confidence builder and that all of the sophomores have some opportunity to lead their flights in drill. 
One junior flight commander said he'd like to have drill more than once a week, but have the second drill period consist of team sports. "They're getting out ol three periods of phys-ed a week anyway," he said, "and some of the guys are in bad shape. The informal contact would be good." 
The unit commander, Colonel Norman Muller, said that the Air Force in the past two years has been oriented to "people programs" and that drill and other activities serve to teach the cadets how to organize and work with people. 
Muller stated that during each drill period the sophomores have an opportunity to lead the flight, act as flight sergeant, and carry the guidon (banner) , with the responsibilities given to different sophomores at various times. 
Muller also mentioned different forms of leadership training and management skills in the program. The unit recently held a drill competition among the flights, capped by a formal dinner known as a "dining in". 
The "dining in" was organized by Stuhldreher. According· to Muller, the dinner and awards ceremony, attended by top University administrators, went off flawlessly, and he cited this as an example of management and organizatonal training . 
"It was an excellent managerial experience," Muller said, "not just a big party." 
Cadet officers must also plan and teach leadership courses for the underclassmen, Muller said. 
Air Force SNAFU 
The most serious complaint of the students lies not in the ROTC program but in the Air Force itself. Congress ordered the Air Force to reduce its manpower and the service is making a cut-back on the number of pilots it is training, according to Stuhldreher. 
Roggero said his class of 13 originally had slots for ten pilots; now the number has been reduced to five. As a result the students who joined Air Force ROTC with the intention of becoming pilots have a number of options. ---They may terminate their contract with the Air Force. Their only obligaton is to pay the University for tuition, books, and fees for the presentyearwhich the Air Force has paid. ---They may take what is known as the "Palace Option." The students receive their commission at graduation, serve 90 days active duty, and spend four years in the Air Force Reserve. ---They may recategorize. In other words, a pilot candidate would choose to enter the Air Force to be trained as a navigator or engineer or in some support capacity such as personnel. 
(continued on page 3) 

the observer Wednesday, November 12, 1975 

warld briefs 
NEW YORK <APl-The San Diego Sails folded Tuesday, the second team in the American Basketball Association to fold this season. , . 
San Diego the ABA's only expansion team in the leagues s mne years, drew ~nly 7,126 fans in three home dates this sea~on. That, plus being a poor drawing card on the road, were considered the reasons for the folding. 
INDIANAPOLIS AP -Jeb Stuart Magruder, the former No.2 man in the Committee to Re-elect the President, is in Evansville today working on a new career with a religious organization. 
Magruder, 40, served seven months in prison for his part in the Watergate coverup. . . . .. 
He is now a staff member with Young Life, a Chnstlan m1mstry aimed at reaching high school students. "It's still a little difficult for me to understand why it cost $100,000 to plead guilty~ he said. 
MOSCOW <AP>--The Soviet Union on Tuesday suspended relations with Uganda, once its closest ally in East Mrica, and accused President Idi Amin's government of unfriendly actions and insults. 
Amin, in a statement broadcast by the official Uganda radio, said trouble between the two nations might be blamed on an "overdose of vodka" taken by the Soviet ambassador and said that Moscow should send a competent replacement. 
The suspension of relations meant a setback to Soviet influence in black Africa and a blow to Uganda's shaky economy, Western diplomats in neighboring Kenya said. 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. (AP)-A grocery clerk testified Tuesday that Lynette "Squeaky" Fromme walked into his store and said, "I hate Ford." the day before she allegedly tried to assassinate President Ford 
Clerk Ed Louie, appearing as a prosecution witnes~ at Miss Fromme's trial in U.S. District Court, added that she did not say anything to him about trying to kill Ford. Louie told the jury Miss Fromme volunteered the remark about Ford. 
Doctors react to Quinlan decision-see page 10 
NYC problems explored-see page 9 
New charge in Watergate trial-see page 5 
National weather-see page 4 
an campus taday 
12:15 pm---lecture, "relationship of membrane structure to membrane function in E coli" by dr. charles f. kulpa, 
n.d. room 278, galvin auditorium 
3:25pm ---lecture, "solubility of hydrocarbons. in light liquid I hydrocarbons" by paul e. llu, graduate student room 269 chemical engineering bldg. 
3:30 pm ---workshop, carol rosenberger, pianist, little theater 
7:00 pm ---mock presentation, mock collective bargaining presentation, library auditorium 7, 9, & 
11 pm ---film, "blow for blow"', documentary room 127 nieuwland science hall. $1 donation requested 
7:30 pm ---folk dancing, free instruction, Iafortune ballroom 
8:00pm ---lecture, "debunking the bicentennial," by prof. j. joseph huthmucher, university of delaware room 117, haggar hall auditorium 
8 & 10 pm ---film, "all quiet on the western front," eng. 
auditorium, $1 

( *The Observerl 
Night Editor: Martha Jane Hogan Assistant: Christopher James 
Patrick McCambridge Smith Layout Staff: Daborah Ann Dahrling, Thomas Robert 
Stejskai,Tim Milhous O'Reilly Day Editor: Marianne Schulte Copy Reader: Gregory Bernet 
Bangs EDitorials: Valerie Mary Zurblis, Patrick Willie.. Thomas Hanifin Features: Thomas John O'Neil, Gregory Bernet Bangs Sports: Frederick Charles 
Herbst Typists: Thomas John O'Neil, Mary E lien Keefe, Nell Joseph VIII, Karen Anne Hinks Compugraphic: Henry Joseph Van Dyke Night Controller: Robert Joseph Steinmetz Late Typist: Karen Anne Hinks 
lAd Layout: Michael Miller, T)homas.Walrath 
The Observer is published Monday lhrough Friday and weekly during !he summer session, excepl during exams and vacation periods. The Observer 1S published by the students of the Univ. of Notre 
o'ame and St Mary's College. Subscript1ons may be purchased for 10 dollars per semester ( 18 dollars per year) from The Ob server, Box Q, Notre Dame, In diana, 46556 Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
ND College of Engineering .launches awareness program 
The Notre Dame College of college level, but preparation for Engineering is teaching junior engineering schoolmust take place high school students to play games in secondary schools. 
with computers in an effort to --Many inner-city children avoid 
interest minority students in a mathematics, physics and career in engineering. chemistry in high school because 
of the presumed difficulty of these The project is part of a new ef­subject.
fort launched by Notre Dame and 13 other Midwestern engineering --Parents, teachers, counselors institutions to make pupils aware and administrators at inner-city of the potential of an engineering schools often are not well informed career while they are young about opportunities in engineering enough to prepare forcollege en­and may not recognize students trance. with engineering talent. 
::>upported primarily by a $750,000 grant from the Alfred P. 
Sloan Foundation, the program is known officially as the CIC+MP­ME, or Committee on Institutional Cooperation plus Midwestern Program on Minority Education. Each of 14 universities forming consortium will have the portunity to developits own nrt>i~>o~tlli!ll to encourage young students to prepare engineering careers. 
Dr. Joseph C. Hogan, dean Notre Dame's College Engineering, chaired the colmr:mtt­ee whch reviewed and proposed projects. "We ae1;m1~a work at the lower levels of school grades because where many youngsters lose rnf'•lr"''"' motivation for scholarly a college work," he said. 
Hogan explained that such programs are n throughout the country, not just the Midwest, two criteria evaluation were "transfer that is, ease in setting up projects at many schools, and effectiveness." 

In developingthe program, consortium was concerned engineering, traditionally profession providing upwar mobility to newcomers toAmerica and to ethnic minorities in general, has not attracted many Blacks, Hispano-Americans and American Indians. Plans for the new program are based on several assumptions: 
--Inner-city children are exposed to engineers an engineering in their everydaexperience. 

Preparation for other professional schools such as law andmedicine can take placeat the 
Observer names three new editors 
Three new appointments to The Observer staff were announced lastnight by editor Terry Keeney. 
Val Zurblis joins the Editorial Board as wire editor. A junior American Studies major from Martinsville, New Jersey, Zurblis will be responsible for all wire service copy used by the paper. She has served this semester as Wednesday night editor and senior staff reporter. 
Two St. Mary's sophomores were named assistant St. Mary's editors. Marti Hogan, of Orem, Ut­ah, and Margie Irr, of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, will share responsibility for developing news on the St. Mary's campus. 
Hogan served this year as 
Tuesday night editor and staff 
reporter. Irr has been Thursday 
day editor and staff reporter. 

The 1new appointments are ef­
fective immediately. 

Under Notre Dame's project,terminals which feed into the University computer will be placed in several South Bend JUnior high schools with a majority enrollment of minority students. Engineering faculty and students under the direction of Dr .David L. Cohn willhelp teachers and students 
to understand howthe computer works,suggest projects to stimulate interest in problem-
solving, and sponsor programming contests among the schools. 





Are You Talented? 
a gifted writer? 
Your talents are 
being wasted, face it. 
Your work deserves 
the readership of 
10,000 people. The 
Observer feature 
staff is recruiting 
people to write on 
deversified topics 
and is having a 
meeting you should 
come to. Tomorrow 
night in the Observer 
office (Top Floor 
LaFortune) at 10:00, 
<Thursday>, 
Refreshments will be 
served. No jour­
nalism experience is 
needed. Come to the 
meeting. Join the 
Observer Feature 
Staff. 
These brightly colored hammocks afford the user an 
opportunity to sleep or lounge, suspended, in com­
plete evenly supported comfort. In addition they are 
refreshingly cool in hot summer days or nights. 
JUST ARRIVED !!! Columbian Wall Hanging & Tapestries 

NEWSSTAND 
& GENERAL STORE 113 WEST MONROE ST. 

the observer 

Providing a service 
Student businesses result as prices increase 
by Pat Cuneo Iifty cents to a dollar on albums," Staff Reporter related LaValle. 
Since they are running the Traditionally, college students "business" out of their room and 

are pictured as having more spirit it's not their life's work, the and 1dealism than theordinaryciti­students don't carry a large stock zen and for this reason, outsiders of albums but call in orders to thearen't too surprised when they see 
supply company upon request.students starting their own Retailing $6.98 LP's are sold at 
business. 

$4.55 includmg tax, which is the 
However, most tradition is th­lowest price in the South Bend rown out on modern college cam­area. Similarly, double albums puses and students live in a realis­retailing at $11.98 are sold for $7.75. tic environment. Cassettes and 8-tracks are priced 
at $5.50.
Student-run businesses in­Currently, orders are placed by terviewed by the Observer include phone once or twice per week anda record company, stereo equip­the albums are received thement, plant sales, genuine leather following day. The majority of the
belts and quilt sales. 

business is done on the order basis which means that the speed 1\lotiv;•h·d by increased prices of the operation rests with the 
students. 
The albums are purchased from Three years ago senior Mike the same middlemen discountLaValle started a record com­wholesalers as record stores use sopany not because he was in­the albums are identical.

terested in music or to make a killing and retire at the age of fifty LaValle explains that the ability instead of sixty-five, but because of Flanner Records to sell albums area recored outlets drastically at a low cost is because "there is no increased their prices. overhead as we run things right
Today, LaValle along with two from our room." roommates, Ed Garvey and Bob 
Flanner Records is obviously anKastenholz, aren't raking in huge easily accessible spot on campusamounts ofmoney but they're for residents. Everything is runproviding Notre Dame students from 807 Flanner. They also offerwith a service they couldn't get guaranteed quality with defective any other way. 

albums automatically replaced.Operatmg under the name 
Garvey and Kastenholz, bothFlanner Records, the trio sells junior business majors, sum up t­virtually every type ol music at ne business confidently. "There just substantial discount prices. 

aren't any hitches in the business ­
"We feel the students have been you wait a little longer for the ripped off by going off-campus to albums but you save a lot more " huv alhums and we can save them they explained. ' 
Birsic elaborates on free ticket allocation system 
by Martha Fanning Staff Reporter 

Tom Birsic, Student Union Director, explained the com­plimentary ticket allocation system while speaking at the Hall President's Council meeting last night, in f<'isher. 
Birsic outlined this year's method as compared to last year's and explained alterations. 
''Last year Student Union produced their own concerts and distributed complimentary tickets liberally," he commented. 
He noted that when Student Union produces a concert it receives 200 complimentary tickets, 100 of which go to the ACC per contract agreement. Due to the loss of $20,000 last year through concerts, Student Union has co-sponsored 2 of the 3 concerts held this year. 
"The number of complimentary 
tickets for the Rod Stewert and 
Jethro Tull concert was 100 and 50 
went immediately to the ACC," 
Birsic remarked. "There is no set 
formula for passing out these 
tickets. This year it has been done 
on an ad-hoc basis," he added. 

Lists noting the recipients of the 
complimentary tickets are printed 
up two weeks prior to the concert. 
Birsic also commented on this 

vear's first Armory Party which 
he describedas "very successful". 
Responding to the possibility of future parties, he said it is not ·known if they will occur. 
"We ran that party without liability insurance oecause the insurance fell through four days before the party was scheduled," he said. Insurance plans are being 
looked into but the cost is a major 
factor. 
Birsic also mentioned other 

services and committees under the 
Student Union giving the HPC a 
clearer idea of the scope of that 
branch of Student Government. 
Other business included 

discussion on hall allotments. 
Denis Sullivan, chairman of the 
committee, .reouested that the 
halls submit their budget requests 
again with priorities assigned to 
items for which the money was 
requested.
A rough draft of the HPC Par­

ticipation Policy was passed out 
for consideration by the council 
during the week. The council will 
vote on the policy at a future 
meeting. The policy was designed 
in order to eliminate any misun­
derstandings arising from ac­
tivities jointly organized and 
sponsored by the HPC and Student 
Government and or Student Union. 

Nominations accepted lor Senior Class Fellow Award 
By Pat Spicer dividual "whom the class feels has 
Starr Reporter performed some worthy endeavor 
of social merit" according to 
Any senior wishing to enter a Macauley. 
nomination for Senior Class Fellow Recent years however have seen 
may do so by contacting the student enthusiasm for the award 
Student Activities Office by dwindle. "Last year only about 200 
Friday. Nov. 14, according to Bill seniors voted for a Senior Fellow. 
Macauley. This year we are obviously hoping 
Macauley, chairman of the for much more student input," 
Senior f<'ellow Award Committee, stated Macauley. 
:... ged all seniors to present serious The selection process begins 
nominations. "Only by the par­with nominations from the Senior 
ticipation of the seniors can the Class. "If there is an abundance of 
worthy tradition of the Senior diverse nominations either the 
Fellow Award be continued," he committee will narr.ow down the 
commented. number of possible selections or 
The Senior Fellow Award, for­else there will be a primary 
merly the Patriot of the Year election," Macauley noted. 
Award, has been a tradition at The winner of the Senior Fellow 
Notre Dame since its inception in Award will visit the campus 
the 1950's. It is bestowed annually sometime in March to accept the 
by the Senior Class 011 an in-honor. 
Right around the corner from Flanner Records is another stu­dent operated business. 
The Golden Dome Stereo Co. IS run by Jim Watkins from 809 Flanner. 
Like his friends, Watkins has a key interest in music and sells name brand stereos and equip­ment at twenty to sixty per cent 
cent lower than area dealers, Golden Dome Stereo sales are factory sealed, factory direct, and 
The two horticulturists are r--------------,
guaranteed. 
experienced in the field as LinehanThese Notre Dame students said has worked the past two summersthey finally refused to yield to the in a plant nursery and landscaping economically strained businesses company.
around town and start businesses to Lienuine French leather belts areaid the students who can't afford to being sold by Shawn Murphy, 310pay unrealistic prices. 
Keenan, for 33 percent off retail price.
Otht'r businesses 

The leather belts are priced at $IO and consist of solid brass 
Paul Linehan, of 251 Dillon, is buckles and 25 different belt 
AFROTC pilots wait 
(continued from page 1) 
---They may wait. The waiting 
period for pilot training is current­
ly one to two years. During that 
time the individual has a com­
mission as an Air Force officer, 
but the commission is not ac­
tivated. 
Senior John Froman has taken the "Palace Option." "The main reason I decided to get out was that the delay would be 18 months to two years. I couldn't get a job." Froman decided he would do bett­er out of the Air Force. 
"You're on the hook is where you're at," said Merrington. "Once they got you, they've got 
...,... '' 
Merrington credited the officers with being very honest as to the odds of the seniors in getting pilot training. 
Merrington pointed out a number of causes of the foul-up. One is the ending of the Vietnam
War which left the Air Force with 
an overabundance of personnel. Another is the high cost of fuel which has caused the Air Force to cut down on the number of planes it 
has in the air. Merrington estimat­ed that it will take the Air Force at least two years to get down to a stable level of personnel, but in the meantime saw difficulties in get-
ling people to join AFROTC because of the morale problems of the situation. 
Merrington pointed out that the Army also had to cut its personnel at the close of the Vietnam War. "All they did was close their eyes, take a pencil and start slashing," he said. The Air Force's reducton in force has been a much slower process, he sain 
Like the other ROTC programs, scholarship students have their currently operatmg a plant and flower sales from his room. 
Dealing in tropical and hanging plants, Linehan and his roommate Dave Hoelzinger sell both plants and flowers at a substantial savings. They also treat a wide variety of plant troubles. 
Linehan added that his room 1s like a big jungle with southwest and southease sun exposure, as plant lights remain in operation during the winter months. 
designs. 
Murphy is supplied by a private group who makes the belts in Colorado. All of the belts are custoll'fit by theambitious Murphy. 
A student in Zahm Hall sells quilts for the Holy Cross Brothers to raise funds for various charities. 
Kueku Roaast, 147 Zahm, sells a large variety of quilts from $5 to $20. The quilts are made from several different materials and are priced well below retail cost. 
tuition, books and fees paid by the Air Force. Air Force ROTC pilot candidates also may take 25 hours of flight training while at Notre Dame through a local flight in­structor at no cost. 
While the the Air Force is currently cutting back its number of pilots Merrington said that fields are wide open in medicine, ac­counting, and personnel. He said that currently a student who hopes to go medical school has excellent chances of . receiving a full scholarship. 
Attrition 

Roggero said the attrition rate for his class hass been around 60 
percent. His class started with 35­40 students and has dropped to 13. This year's junior class started with approximately the same number, but has dropped only to 28. 
R 'd th t d t
oggero sal a some stu ens
dropped out because they were 
physically disqualified, some because they didn't like the haircut regulations, and some because they decided agianst an Air Force 
career. 

A few are academically disqualified. "One went on academic suspension," Roggero said, "and the Army took him." 
Most of the students in the program are not career oriented, Roggero stated. He said that 
nearly 85 percent resign their commissions after their four-year obligation is over. Pilots have a five-year obligation after the completion of their training. 
"Even though I'm getting out now, • • Froman said, "I'm glad I st­ayed in. It taught me how to be a leader, which is true of any ROTC program." 
Always Unlimited Free Pari 
I -~
NOW!~· lBEP~ 
AHAL WALLIS P..d,<l•oo 
~~~ 
7:00,9:10 PM (••.and the~) 
n 


AIRPORT 

film 187& Ends Thurs. 7:15, 9:30PM 
And Look What's COMING FRIDAY! 





?llf!ITH 

.# SALE 
WAS '$129,95 NOW $119.95 
THE JET SET Gll50 
Compact 9" 
diagonal B&W port­
able. Adapter cord 
plugs into cigarette 
Iighter to operate on 
12 V auto battery. 
Also operates on 
normal AC house 
current. Optio1,al, 
rechargeable  bat­ 
tery  pack  also  
available.  100  

percent solid-state chassis. 

WAS $44.95 NOW $39.95 
RF51Y 
AM-F M portable with pushbutton Weather feature. AFC on FM, AGC on AM. Telescoping FM WPathPr an­tenna. Includes earphone. AC or battery operation. 


WAS $329.95 NOW $278.00 Model G590W-10 Solid-state Allegro Series II Amplifier. AM-FM-Stereo FM 
Tuner.  Stereo  
Precision  Record  
Changer  I  8· Track  

TapP Player 

NOitTHSIDE T.V. 2316 MISHAWAKA (1% BLOCKS E. OF 
IRONWOOD DRIVE SOUTH BEND 255-1979 OPEN DAILY TILL 8:00PM SAT. 9:00-5:00 
the observer Wednesday, November 12, 1975 
Campus briefs•••• • • • • • • • • • • • 
Twenty-sixth Annual Moot Court Arts CommissJOn of Notre Dame, 
Competition by placing second in in Stepan Center Nov. 14-15. The 
SMC freshman the Chicago regional, held last programs at 7:30p.m. are open to Yale professor of medicine to talk
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, the public.
takes honors November 6,7, and 8 at Chicago Visiting artists include "Blind on Design of Humanistic Work
Civic Center. Twenty-five teams John" Davis, Fenton Robinson, from thirteen law schools comp­"Big Walter" Horton, Otis Rush, Dr. Stanislav Kasl of the Yale degree in psychology at Yale in
in horse show 

eted in that Regional, arguing a Martin, Bogan and the Arm­University School of Medicine will 1957 and a doctoral degree at theDebbie Spangler, a St. Mary's United States Supreme Court strongs, Son Seals and Albert King. discuss "Psychological and Mental University of Michigan in 1962. Hefreshman from Merrillville, In­
antitrust case. Advance ticket sales are now in Health Considerations in the has served as a consultant of the diana, cantered her Arabian mare, progress at Boogie Records and Design of Humanistic Work" at American Heart Association,On Thursday and Friday, NotreKarin Su, to high honors in the U.S. 
Just for the Record. Festival 3:30p.m. Friday, November 14, at Social Security Administration,Dame defeated teams from
Arabian National Horse Show held passes, priced for $5 for both the University of Notre Dame. Department of Housing and Urban 
in Albuquerque, New Mexico last DePaul and Loyola Law Schools, performances, may be purchased The talk in the Hayes-Healy Development, Bureau of Com­earning one of four spots in. the month. 
at Pandora's, The Record Joint, Center is part of the "Design of munity and Environmentalregional semi-finals. ArgumentsIn stiff competition against Niles, and the Notre Dame Student Humanistic Work" Series and is Managemnt, the National lntitute
regional winners from all over the on Saturday afternoon reduced the 
Union. open to the public without charge.' on Drug Abuse, and other 
country, Spangler finished among field to two, Notre Dame and a A former Woodrow Wilson agencies.
the top 20 overall in Saddle Seat and team representing the University Fellow, Dr. Kasl has researched The "Humanistic Work" series
Medal competiton. of Wisconsin Law School. At the and written extensively about the is sponsored by Notre Dame'sSpangler qualified for the N­finals, held Saturday evening, Platform Comm. 
effects of occupational status on College of Business Administration ationals by winning championships the Notre Dame team was edged physical and mental health, their with financial assistance from thein LaPorte andd Madison by Wisconsin,. Due to the large to hold meeting, effects on job loss, and the per-S & H Foundation. Drs. WilliamWisconsin Arabian shows last number <>f schools in the Chicago sonal and social effects of Heisler and John Houck of the summer. Regional, the two top teams go on 
alienatinl! work. Department of Management arePresently a Spanish and social to compete in the National finals on gun control Kasl received an undergraduate co-chairmeru of the series.
in New York City.

work major at St. Mary's, The Mock National Convention Spangler is a 1975 graduate of Executive Committee is holding 





r----------------­
Team members are Dennis
Andrean High School. the second of a series of Platform 
t KEN'S DEN .t
Bonucchi, Kathleen Comfrey, 
Hearings for the 1976 Mock Con­
Kevin Gallagher and June Gott­
vention. These Platform Hearings 
Auction debts schalk. The student director is are planned as a guide to student t -HAIR STYLING -t 
Jeanette Cardia. Faculty ad­opinion at Notre Dame on issues t -AWARD WINNING STYLISTS f
payable· now visors are Professors Fracis X. facio~ the United States. Beytagh and Fernand N. Dutile. t -UNIQUE ATMOSPHERE f 
Many donations pledged by part· This week's hearing shall be f ROFFLER STYING STYLING & f icipants in the United Way auction held on Thursday, Nov. 13, at 8:00 are still outstanding, according to in the Library Auditorium. The t PN.ODUCTS f auction coodinator, Cathy Coyne. 
Season skiing subject for this hearing shall be, "Gun Control," with the par­f ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER f
Those who have not fulfilled their pledges are requested to passes lor ticipants selected from the Notre , (LINCOLNWA Y WEST) t
Dame Law School. The format
contact Coyne at 469 LeMans, 4958, Michigan ' IN MISRAWAKA
again is planned to have a short
immediately. 

position presentation followed by a 
t Phone 255 -6500 t
Season passes at special rates question and discussion period. are being offered to Notre Dame
Moot Court goes The first hearing held on Nov. 3, t--~~'llf!!rif;J!!§~!f=LE~~~ ...J
and St. Mary's students by Royal was a success with over fifty
Valley Ski Resort, Buchanan, Mich.
to contest finals persons present and a thirty-five
Season passes are available at 
minute question period. As of Nov.
three prices. 

10, the speakers for Thursday'sThe Notre Dame Law School 
The first package includes 
session are still tentative andMoot Court Team qualified for the 
registration, six lessons, equip­cannot be released now.
mid-December finals of the 
ment rental and lift ticket for 
$45.00. There is a 20 person

Temperatures 

minimum per lesson. Registration, equipment rental

back home 

and lift ticket for the season are Hi Lo available on the $36.00 pass. 
I 
Otlkl 
A season pass for a lift ticket Albuque 56 33 clr 
Albany 59 43 cdy 

costs $21.00. Amarillo 61 45 clr 
Royal Valley, located 12 miles Anchorage 18 7 cdy 
from South Bend, is open from De. Asheville 63 46 rn 
1to March 15, daily. For informat­Atlanta 75 61 rn 
ion obtaining passes, students Birmingham 81 55 rn 
should contact Mary Houvouras at 
Bismarck 35 30 clr 
5731. 
Boise 46 22 clr Boston 63 52 cdy Brownville 85 60 cdy Buffalo 52 42 rn 


Midwest Blues 
Charleston 75 68 rn 
Charlotte 66 56 rn 


slate announced
Chicago 58 34 ~dy Cincinnati 62 34 Cleveland 38 32 ~rr 

Eight recognized authorities in A scene from the 1972 Mock Denver 38 32 clr 
music from the Chicago area will Convention. Ttiat convention Des Moines 59 40 cdy 
perf?rm during the Midwest Blues chose George McGovern and Birch Detroit 55 35 cdy 
Festival, sponsoredby the Cultural Bayh to be running mates. Duluth 39 29 sn 
..• •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••··
Fairbanks 7 21 cdyFort Worth 80 46 Green BAy 45 28 
~~y 


!• ACTS OF TRANSLATION
Helena 36 25 cdy •Honolulu 85 71 clrHouston 83 55 
India polis 59 32 ~~y 

i• TODAY, NOV. 12, 1975 
Jacksville 82 69 rn 
a. 
Juneau 37 32 rn 
Kansas City 62 45 cdy 


• Rare Book Room, Memorial Library
Las Vegas 62 46 clr Little Rock 72 37 clr Los Angeles 78 50 clr Louisville 66 38 rn 

2:00P.M. Fritz Senn: Joyce and German Literature
Marquette 38 27 rn Memphis 70 44 cdy:I Miami 81 71 cdy Milwaukee 52 32 sn Mpls-St. P. 46 39 sn 
4:00P.M. Symposium on Translation: Michael Hamburger, Peter Jay,New Orleans 80 70 cdy
:: 
Daniel Weissbort, Samuel Hazo, Fritz Senn.
New York 62 48 rn 
Okla. City 69 45 clr Omaha 61 45 cdy Orlando 84 70 cdy

) 
8:00P.M. ActsofTranslation: AProgramofReadings
Philadalphia 63 43 rn Translations from Greek, Russian, German, French, Romanian, ANDPhoenix 78 47 clr Arabic poetry made and read by Michael Hamburger, Peter Jay, SamuelPittsburgh 55 34 rn Hazo, and Daniel Weissbort. With Commentary.

Portland Me. 60 40 cdy Portland, Ore 50 41 cdy Rapid City 38 31 
clr 
E
Richmond 68 44 

rn ! Sponsored
St. Louis 66 36 cdy Salt Lake 41 33 ~ bySan Diego 71 54 San Fran 60 48 
Seattle 48 ~i~ e THE DEPARTMENT
40 
Spokane 35 20 

* 
1976 MOCK CONVENTION 
PLATFORM COMMITTEE HEARING 




GUN CONTROL 

November 13th 

8:00 Library Auditorium 


Tom McMahon Genera I Agent 

Manny Avila Agent 

Karen Wentland Agent 

'Tearafter vear~I semester'after semester, the CollegeMaster from Fidelity 
Union Life lias been the most accepted most 
popular plan on campuses all overAmerica. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelitv Union CollegeMaster field Associate 


myour area: 
1 005 E. LaSalle South Bend, Ind. Phone 287·2327 

~­
.;"" 
·: 

Gjk_'gL'M(l~t<-'r ' 
Tampa 85 74 Washington 65 48 
-----· 

-------~-~-Y-~l.•••••••••••~~~~~~~................~---0--ia_~_e_g_~_:_;_g----------------------------------~ 
, .... f ...... , 
~~---~~~~~~~~---~ 
Lost barge thought to be sunk 
SAULT STE. MAKlE, Mich. An oil slick, two lifeboats, a the vessel was not in imme-taconite pellets on Sunday at turned a truck on the five-mile­
(APl -Rescuers searched life raft and other debris were diate danger. Superior, Wis., and was bound long Mackinac Bridge, whichLake Superior's chilly waters found in the area, with some One Coast Guard spokesman for Detroit, officials said. The connects Michigan's two penin­
Tuesday for the 29-member washing up on the Canadian said the Fitzgerald "probably pellets are an intermediate 
sulas, and forced the bridge tocrew of the sunken ore-carrier shore 13 miles to the northeast. broke in two." But Ens. Ken-product in iron mining. 
close.

Edmund Fitzgerald but found One of the lifeboats had a se-neth Baker added that a hatch "We're finding a lot of debris Prior to the 1966 sinking ofonly an oil slick, empty life­rial number matching that of cover could have blown off, and we've found a couple of the Morrell, 33 lives were lostboats and life jackets. the ship, authorities said. causing the vessel to take on lifeboats. But we haven't found when the 603-foot freighter Carl
Among the debris were sev-water. any people alive or dead," said 
D. Bradley broke up at the top
Aircraft and ships criss-eral orange life jackets, some "In high seas, if they're not Chief Jere Bennett of the Coast of Lake Michigan on Nov. 19,crossed the lake's eastern tip in bobbing in the water and others secured a couple of hatchcovers Guard air rescue station at 
1958.

the area where the ship, once washed onto the rocky shore-could come off. If that happens, Sault Ste. Marie. the largest ore carrier on Lake line. a ship will take on water very On Nov. 11, 1940, three ships 
Superior, went down in 520 feet
Of Water about 7·30 p m Mon
· · · ­

day.
Coast Guard officials said it 
was unlikely anyone could sur­
vive in the 51-degree water more than three hours but added they were still hopeful.The 729-foot vessel vanished from radar screens as winds of hurricane force-of 75 miles 
per hour-raised waves to 25 feet in 42-degree weather. 
''In those conditions, sur­viveability on the average would be about three hours," 
said a Coast Guard spokesman.
''But this has been greatly ex­ceeded on many occasions if they got into a protective life raft or were wearing protective clothing." 
The lake surface was ex­tremely calm Tuesday, and 
search operations were aided by a dull grav. sky which elimi­
nated reflections and made it 
two planes were taking part in 
easier  to  spot  debris  from  the  
air.Two Coast  freighters, a pair Guard helicopters  of and  

the search. 

The Coast Guard said the Fitzgerald may have broken up and sunk before a distress call could be made. A nearby ves­
sel, the Arthur M. Anderson,
reported it received a call Mon­day night from the Fitzgerald. The call indicated the Fitz­gerald was taking on water but its pumps were working and 
Nixon tax evasion conspirator 
By {'~JHIS J. IIAHPER 
Associated Press Writer 

CHICAGO <AP> -A federal jury began deliberations Tues­day in the case of literary ap­
praiser Ralph G. Newman, who 
is charged with lying to govern­ment officials in what may be one of the last of the Water­
gate-related trials.
Newman, 64, a noted ap­praiser of historical documents, is accused in an alleged 
scheme to allow former Presi­dent Richard M. Nixon to claim 
an illegal $450,000 tax deduction for donating his vice presiden­
tial papers to the National Ar­chives in Washington, D.C. 
Newman is charged with ly­ing on two separate occasions to Internal Revenue Service agents about his appraisal of the former president's docu­ments, which span Nixon's ten­ure from 1952 to 1960 as vice president. If convicted, New­man could face a maximum sentence of five years in prison and a $10,000 fine. 
In Tuesday's closing argu­ments before U.S. District 
Court Judge Frank J. McGarr, 
prosecutor Jay Horowitz con­tended that the defendant
played an important role in a scheme to backdate a deed to the Nixon papers and allow the 
former president to claim the 
deduction. The 600,000 items were deliv­ered March 27, 1969, for storage 
in the National Archives but 
were not actually donated until April 1970, said Horowitz, the head of the Watergate special 
prosecution team in the case. Such tax deductions weren't allowed after July 26, 1969, un­der the provisions of the Tax
Reform Act of 1969. 

Nixon claimed on his 1969 tax return that he donated the pa­pers and took a $450,000 deduc­lion, which the IRS later dis­allowed and ordered him to pay $271,000 in additional taxes. 
Horowitz sketched a scheme in which Nixon's tax lawyer Frank DeMarco and White House lawyer Edward L. Mar­gan conceived a plan to evade the new tax act. 
Newman and DeMarco were indicted in February. Charges 
ArmyROTC letsyouqualify for a doublelife! 
You can earn a commission while you earn your degree. 
And that doubles your vocational opportunities. You can pursue either a civilian career or serve as an officer. 
Either way, Army ROTC trains you for success. You learn valuable leadership and management skills which usually aren't offered by any courses. 
You make no commitment when you enroll in the Basic Course. You can ace it or flunk it. Or, you can drop it. That all depends upon you. 
But you owe it to yourself to look into Army ROTC. It might be your thing. At least it's worth checking into. 
Freshmen can preregister Nov 13-20, 1975, for Army ROTC during the Spring semester. 
fast," he said. 
. ThGe sinkinLg kwas the first rna-JOr reat a es shipping dis­aster 1·n nJ·ne years On N v 29
1966 th 1" f. 28 o . ' 
, e Ives o crewmen 
were lost when th F ·ght
e rei er Daniel J. Morrell sank in a
Lake Huron st rm
o · 
Oglebay Norton Co., of Cleve­land, Ohio, which chartE-rs the f 
Fitzgerald, identified the cap-lain as E. R. McSorley of To-f ledo, Ohio, and the chief engi­neer as George Holl of Cabot, 1 Pa. Oglebay was withholding the names of the 27 others f
aboard. 
The vessel, owned by the ~~ Northwestern Mutual Life In-I ­surance Co. of Milwaukee, was / loaded with about 26,000 tons 


of I / '/' 
t 
f 

Newman indicted by IRS 1 
were dismissed against De-f 
Marco in October because a A federal judge in Los Angeles'
ruled that the prosecutor had f acted improperly. Morgan pleaded guilty to tax fraud con-f 
spiracy and spent four months A 
in prison. f 
Defense attorney William A McDaniels said Newman had f 
The storm, typical of the sud-went down and 57 lives were den violent weather on the lost in Lake Michigan during a Great Lakes in Novemberb, was violent three-day storm. described by some local o serv-On Nov. 11, 1913, a hurricane 
a the st · 35 ars cl · "'d 19 h" · L k
ers s wor m ye . aJmc s Ips m a e Hu-
The winds Monday over-ron, killing 254 persons.
Ju-LI_O_'_S_--, 
CARRY 0 uT  A'  
~~ 
_  
'  
WE DELIVER!  ' Af  
A'  
ff  
t  

GENUINE EAsT coAsT THICK 
1 
CRUST STYLE PIZZA (NEVER A f 
6 
TASTE OF BISCUIT 0 ) ' 
D UGH f f
GUARANTEED! ' 
' 
A 
' 
not intentionally lied to the IRS 6 HOT TO YOUR DOOR EVERY TIME A 
even though the information ' ' was incorrect. "It was a mis-j A lake of innocence," he said. f ' 
McDaniels also said that f CALL us T A 
Newman la~er realized his A 232-7919 '
er­
rors and mformed the IRS f f about the mistaken timetable. ----------------­

r 
Foundt'd Novl'lllbt>r 3, 196h 

Terry Keeney Ed110r-on-choef Tom Modglin Bu•ine•• Manager Tom Whelan Adverl"'"g Manager 
EDITORIAL BOARD ;,1 l<utllt'rford. Manilg1ng Editor. Jim EdE'r, ExE'cutivp Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor. "',·n G1ro11ard. N•ws Ed1tor. Bob MadE'r. Campus Editor. Mary Janca. St Mary's Ed1tor; KPn Brildford. Copy Editor. Bdl Brink, Sports Eoitor. Tom O'NPII. FPaturE'S Editor· 
Chris Sm1th. Pilot.> Ed1tor 

N•w• l~~~~~~~~~S~------~B~u\~on~·~"-2~8~1-14_7_1______________-tl 
Wednesday, November 12, 1975 



~~~~~~~rver 
P. 0. Box Q 
our beloved campus. And for those who do not think such a problem
More Sexism Asked to Fast
exists, we invite you to stroll past the lake after any meal at the South Dining Hall. 
Mike Davlin
Dl.'at· Editor: Dear Editor:
AI PaulusAt the risk of reviVIng the Steve Baker
coeducation uproar, I feel that I "Is not this the fast that I have
Max Brady
must respond to the recent an­chosen? to loose the bands of nouncement of the formation of a wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens and to let the oppressed to
dance teamn--the "Dancing Irish." 
New Tradl'ti'On
Here we have yet another free." (Isaiah lviii.6) example of sexism at Notre Dame. Women are again being reduced to November 16, 1975 has been nothing but "bazooms" and legs declared a National Day of and grouped together to perform. Reconciliation between Gay
Well, some of us are tired of Dear Editor: Catholics and their Church. In
N t I have sat through 3 years of union with this spirit we are askingperforming. We came to ore home football games only to be
Dame for the same reasons that members of the Notre Dame 
DOONESBURY  by Garry Trudeau  
OH, PAUl-, IT'S SlK:II AN HOIKJR mectUaRK~N6 ~ IN YOfJR SHOP­: I'Ve N&Vt:t?. saN  1M PROV/?&:if OF MY TANKMI?S, THafJH-­HISTORY MAY 5«JNFOmT 7){6R£1/ERE 7CAP075, 8liT IT li/IU UJN6 /?EV&RE ~~ R&V&RC lAAfKA!i.'.l.l.!l!  


R&VER£ TANKAI?.PSARE 5TURP'I-~ 
opinion!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
television audiences and opposmg apparent after watchmg th~ U.S.C. teams a little skin. squads perform as a _umt. Y~s, 
Rome has declared recon­
· . . . · cheerleader, the band IS a maJor 
ciliation to be the theme of this
Is a dancmg drill tea"!, a fitt~ng part of your squad. All one has to 
Holy Year, and it is appropriate
example of Notre Dame· 1 t~mk do is witness all the Trojan cheers 
that all Catholics engage in prayer
not. When women are adm_Itted that are done in conjunction with 
and water fasting that the Holy
here, the goal was .a coeducational their band to realize that its June­
Spirit might guide the Church and 
school, not a sexist one. What tion·isn't to be separate from the stu­
the gay community toward a
steps we_ have made toward a goal dent body and the cheerleaders. 
condition of mutual respect and
of equality are reversed a~l too 1 ) Our uniforms need obvious 
love.
easily when we allow such thmgs to refor.m, especially when the band go on unchallenged. begins to resemble the Salvation Gay Students or Notre Dame Nancy J. Hudds Army and the cheerleaders look 
like a collage. 2). Th repertoire of cheers is extremely outdated and too struc­
Lake Stench tured-observe the U.S.C. squad for Thanks' Bo~s 
an obvious difference in ap­pearance, style of cheers and 
Dear Editor:
movement. Let's abandon our high 
I would like to thank all the Notre 
school routine!

I>l.'ar Editors: Dame boys who were on main quad 
3). The band should realize that
Those of us who must walk last Friday night at 8:30 p.m. for
there are other songs than the
around St. Mary's Lake to get to their assistance when I was
"Victory March." Why not play
and from Holy Cross Hall are jumped while on the way to Ni-
while sitting in the stands instead
becoming sickened by the stench euwland. Seconds afterthe ·incident I 
of listening to the U.S.C. band
emanating from the northeast ran back midway into the main
blare in your ears? Let's not make 
corner of the lake. We here at Holy quad yelling at the top of my lungs 
the oldest band in the land continue 
Cross Hall were unaware that the for someone to catch the "jumper"
to have the oldest musical
South Bend Sewer Department had who ran away. almost immediately 
repertoire!

decided to use this corner of the after he knocked me down.
4). Finally, both squads should
Lake as its new landfill. It was 
realize my main point, unity.
embarassing for us as ND students To my utter amazement, not one
Combine the two in the stands 
to inform those alumni visiting this person out of about ten who were
instead of having two side shows at 
campus on the last two weekends around the Huddle turned to look in
the game. It's strange, but after 

that the ducks were not actually my direction. And of of course, no
the U .S.C. game the Trojan band and 
walking on water, but on dead one came over to see what was
cheerleaders continued to perform
leaves, branches, assorted scraps wrong. It appears that Notre
in the stands for 20 minutes while
of paper. and beer cans. Dame is as civilized and as Chris­
our squads left after performing
We are writing this note to in­tian as New York City. Thanks
two school songs-let's not continue 
form those at the maintenance again, boys. 
in this tradition!

department that there is definitely 
Mike Grady
a problem here. The smell is an A senior , woman 
Class or '77
obvious detriment to the beauty of (Name Withheld Upon Request> 

"The impossible dream" 
men come here--to be educated, to totally amazed at the inadequacy community to participate in a dayJearn. to grow--and not to be put of our cheerleaders and our band. of prayer and fasting to further on parade to show Natio~al This fact has becom~ increasingly this reconciliation. 
Job Hunting Hazards 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii pattie coone~ 
This column is dedicated to all seniors, past and present, especially liberal arts majors; it is a guide on how not to job hunt. 
My case is somewhat different from that of most job hunters, in that I am allergic towork and consequently never was terribly ambitious. My one guiding principle in life is: Never do today what can be done tomorrow, or the day after. After receiveing a D in typing two semesters in a row sophomore year, I knew I'd never make it as a secretary; luckily I didn't want to be one. However, the ability to type over 40 words a minute is essential in job hunting. It became obvious that since I had a mental block where typing was concerned that I had to find a job that I wouldn't have to typefor. 
Two days after graduation I started looking at Want Ads and actually wentout on couple of interviews. Right away I decided I didn't like job-hunting and spent the next few days at the beach, followed by five days of visiting friends in New Jersey and New York. When I returned to Chicago I copped out by working for the Park District in their summer day camp program. After five summers of day camp one becomes quite immune to th monsters one is in charge of, so it wasn't much of a challenge; no one ran away, no one beat me up, no one got lost at the zoo and they even lined up in twos. 
At the end of August I was unemployed again. The only thing I was doing on a steady basis was going to weddings. I 
went back to reading the Want Ads again. The day I finally found a job stands out in my mind because it was one of the worst days of my life. 
It was 86 out and the humidity was about the same and raining on and off. I had one interview at 8:45 on Jackson Blvd., the second one at 11:00 at the Chicago Motor Club for claims clerk. At the Motor Club I took a "filing" test which I finished in four minutes onlytobe informed: "Oh, my, you're a college graduate. This won't do. You'll never be happy here, standing on your feet all day, bending over all these files, filing all day long." So much for that job. 
On route (walking) to my third interview I happened to glance down at my feet, which were bleeding. None of my job manuals had ever prepared me for this .I managed to get hold of some bandaids, only to be kept waiting an hour, which made me 10 ruins. late for the next interview, which made me half an hour late for the last interview. 
The last interview was on the far North Side. It would have been easy to take the "L" but I wasn't sure if where I was go­ing was an "A" or "B" stop. After boarding the bus I learned that both the "A" and "B" stopped where I was going. Of course it was raining and I had to walk two blocks before reaching my destination. 
All the walking and running finally paid off even though I 
was half an hour late; they offered me a job. Maybe they felt sorry for me caught in the rain, out of breath and obviously crippled. So contrary to all the job guides that say be punc­tual, look your best, be yourself and don't be nervous, I was late, looked a wreck with an umbrella stuffed under one arm, a jacket with a scarf hanging out its pocket under the other arm, couldn't walk straight and talked about 80 words a second, to make up for lost time. However, there must be an easier way. 

notes from italy 
Wednesday, November 12, 1975 the observer 
uenice sta!Jing faithful to the sea 

leo hansen 

Where the sand and sea are joined upon the western shores of the Adriatic Sea, there stands a statue of marble and stone ­a Venus figure, the Ocean's daughter, the mother of Romanticism. 
She is the lover of all who come to pay her homage, those attracted by her fic­tional ideals and dream-like personality, those who have minds that breathe, with hearts that imagine, with eyes that softly express emotion. 
She is an enigma: her beauty is her siiimplicity, her mystery. She is free, but is faithful in her marriage to the sea, which has lasted for more than a thousand years. 
Yet her beloved is her most destructive foe, though somehow she survives the flood waters, waiting in the lurks to (Tumble her base of stone, and for the rape of the virgin. Still the sea is peaceful and gentle in its demise, reflecting her bright colours and the shiny gold, the shadows, the forms, the beauty. 
The forms (once we unveil our metaphorical Venus l are simple but selective: the dome and bell tower of S. (;iorgio Maggiore blurred by an October haze, gondolas and their masters, barber poles along the Grand Canal, the Bridge of 

Sighs, or even the basillica. These are 
strictly Venetian; they have no other 
place. 

Upon the island of Torcello, the begin­
nings of Venice were founded in the 
seventh century. Once a prosperous 
community, it perished and eventually 
disappeared, leaving today only the 
remains of two churches and two palaces. 
Of Rialto (significantly the adolescence 
of Venice) a little more of the past can be 
distinguished. For hundreds of years, 
Hialto was one of the most prosperous 
towns in the entire world. In the fourteenth 
and fifteenth centuries, before de Gama 
rounded the Cape of Good Hope, the 
commercial centre here was the envy of 
the Hepublic. From here fleets were sent 
out to all corners of the Old World, making 
itself and the Republic rich and powerful. Left today are only the traces of former times: the Bridge, covered by shops (now mostly tourist type, rather than the wine, poultry and meat, and cheese dealers of days old l and boats lined up along the canal filled with fruits and vegetables. But gone are the vendors' songs ('I tengo a ruta nuevella e a va si ni co Ia addirosa'), the famous brothel houses, and the elegance. In truth, when news reached that the Portuguese had rounded Africa, the banks 
faileo and a century and a half of 
declination was to ensue. 

Next, everything focuses on the basillica 
and the Ducale palace. The first basillica 
was born in the ninth century as St. Mark's 
tomb was stolen from Alexandria, and 
brought to Venice. As Venice grew and 
became more prosperous, its basillica 
grew despite fires and flood. Piece by 
piece, gold and glitter mosaics covered the 
stone structure of the basillica, the five 
domes, along with the coloured mosaic 
floor and symmetrical marble patterns on 
the walls. 

Protesting the church, figuratively and 
literally from the waters of the rampaging 
lagoon, is the Doge's Palace, with its 
famous pinkish-orange decor facade. Time 
is warped here; all of Venetian history and 
ttadilion is present in one structure. The 
palace is linked in stone with the church, 
which seems lost now behind the cam­
panile. 

Behind the gothic windows of the many 
palaces on the waterfronts about the city, 
there remains the spirits of an age past, 
and visions of splendour: young ladies 
dressed in white gowns, and men in dark 
suits with ribbon-tie and homburg, music, 
dance, festivity. And in the canals and streets below the 'Oh' cries of the gon­doliers and men pulling carts of goods over the steeped staired bridges. 



And in St. Mark's square, everything lives again, but only among the visitors and dreamers. The music is sentimental, the pigeons' motions bizarre, and the pairs of young lovers, cafe dwellers, and souvenir sellers all mingle together to compose the flavour, charm and magnetism of the Venetian experience. Perhaps this is the Venice that will be remembered when all is done, when the Old World is gone for good. 
Gone, too are the artists and poets who will live forever, side by side with the days of old: Igor Stravinsky, Robert Browning, Giovanni Bellini, whose bodies lay in Venetian soil. And Petrarch, Richard Wagner, John Ruskin, Dante, Goethe, Palladia, Lord Byron, Giorgione, Titian, and many others who have immortalized Venice in words, music and art. 
But now Venice stands alone, still faith­ful to the sea, whose intermittent plun­derings destroy a little bit more of a once solid relationship. Some of her stone has worn away and pigeons rest upon her weary shoulders as she poses many times over for artist and photographer. 





blessed be the peacebreakers 
We have a strong tradition of recognizing our heroes as women and men who have adjusted to adverse situations. There are those dramatic stories of per­sons who have bucked the odds of death, like that of the Andes survivors, breathtakingly chronicled in the runaway best-seller, A. live. We see examples all the time of persons who were marked by circumstances for tragedy, but who ad­justed to impossible conditions -no water supply, no food, no hope. They fought to live and they did. 
In his thought-provoking book, Uisturbers of the Peace, Colman McCarthy suggests a new type of hero -the woman or man who refuses to adjust. These persons differ from the classic heroes because the powers defied are not those of a wrathful snowstorm or a shif­ty sea, but the more dangerous forces that the rest of us, fearing rough body contact, learn little by little to go along with. This would include, for McCarthy, everything from great horrors like corporate irresponsibility, pollution of the land and government deception, to the small daily irks and gyps, such as ice cream con­taining fifty percent air, expensive shoes that come unsewn after a month, con­taminated meat, week-old cars already needing repairs of repairs. 
We have adjusted so well to all that goes on around us, McCarthy notes, that the abnormal has become the normal. The worst horror is not that tragedies are in­flicted upon us, but that we learn calmly to live with them, with hardly a fight. 
The fact the most people are docile sheep, or "good Germans," and adjust to horrors around them may be attributed to human flexibility, but maybe -just maybe -it's an adjustment to the sub-human. A new pattern of conformity is set, and in­sanity becomes sanity. Those who refuse to adjust are labelled insane. 

Rabbi Abraham Hesche! tells the story about a kingdom of long ago, where it happened that after the grain crop had been harvested and stored, it was discovered to be poison. Anyone who ate it went insane. The king and his advisers immediately took counsel as to what should be done. Clearly, not enough food was available from other sources to sustain the population. There was no choice but to eat the grain. "Very well," the king decided, "let us eat it. But at the same time, we must feed a few people on a different diet so there will be among us some at least who remember that we are insane." 
McCarthy writes about some "crazy" people, and they just may be the new heroes for our age, when so many conform to madness. We need reminders, like the character Alan Bates plays in King of Hearts, the film that captivated so many when it was shown on campus recently, who cause us to wonder if perhaps ad­justment is maladjustment and so-called sanity reaHy insane. 
McCarthy writes about mostly unknown 
people who quietly took stances of non­
compliance. They reached a point where 
they saw exactly the kinds of hell they 
were being led into by some corporate, 
political or social devil; and they said 
"No." They refused adjustment to some 
form of cheapness, guff, crime, grossness, 
or some kind of debasement in values that 
struck them as brazenly wrong. 
One of them, an upholsterer in New Hampshire whose child was tragically burned when his pajamas caught fire, refused to adjust to the horrifying fact that the textile industry, with the federal government's silent approval, continued to make clothing for other children that was highly flammable. 

That his own child was burned (twenty­five percent second and third degree burns) is tragic enough for Charles Virgine, but another horror is even more grim. He later found the same type of pajamas that burned his son still on sale at the same store. When Chuck investigated the situation of children's clothing that is higly flammable, he discovered to his amazement that three to five thousand deaths associated with flammable fabrics occur annually. Injuries are between one­hundred-fifty and two-hundred-fifty thousand. The highest risk groups are children and the elderly. 
All Chuck Virgine's efforts to get tougher government legislation met with frustration after frustration. The legislation was so weak that in a 1968 survey, the present tragically weak flammability standards were met by nightgowns and garments found on the corpses of nine burn victims, and on the bodies of seventy-four others who were injured. As a famous plastic surgeon said, "It's been known for a long time that children's clothing can be made flame resistant. The textile industry could do it anytime it1 wants. After all, the draperies and curtains in nightclubs are. That's regulated by the government. But for kids, nothing. It's economics, only economics. They're afraid of losing money." 
This is just one small example of the social sin most of us adjust to so easily; and the crazy people like Chuck Virgine are consigned to the lunatic fringe. He's a troublemaker, one of those· crusaders. He's crazy in his battle against the giantly powerful textile industry. Chuck put it this way: "You'd think that I was asking them to stop the machines and the mills. I've run into textile people and they act as if I'm out to destroy them. Naturally, they call me a communist; I'm destructive. And they're right -I'm destructive to fires. I have this strange hang-up of wanting to put them out, especially when kids are catching fire." 
But maybe it's not all for naught, after all. Perhaps people like Chuck Virgine preach to us a contemporary version of the same gospel first announced by Jesus; and maybe they give us some examples of how we might act for humanity's welfare (by considering involvement, for example, in a Public Interest Research Group like InPIRGl. 
Jesus turned the world upside down. He refused to conform to the patterns of his unjust, callous, insensitive society. He turned greatness on its head and said this was the only way it made sense. The madness of his gospel was the supreme sanity. "You want to be great, you want to rank first? Then do it just the opposite way you think it should be done. Ranking first means outdoing one another in concern, in service, in hospitality-just the opposite of what the world teaches you: competition, striving feverishly after personal gain." 
Jesus was crazy according to all stan­dards of getting ahead. He rejected power, might, wealth, dominance and force. He believed in making himself vulnerable to love and trust. Crazy? No, it just so hap­pens he was the leader of those who, like him, would be fed on that special diet (as in Rabbi Heschel's story), so that there would be among us at least some who remind us that we are insane if we are not 
"crazy" like them.  And  in  these crazy  
times,  we  may  need  all  the  crazy  
Christians we can get.  



the observer Wednesday, November 12, 1975
Kissinger: Detente not a favor 
US-USSR troubled to resolve SALT issues 
by KENNETH J. FREED States is not prepared to make was much harsher than evi­Schlesinger. tween Secretary Schlesinger Associated Press Writer further proposals until the Rus­denced in previous months. In He said he was not consulted and myself, as you would ex­WASHINGTON <AP) -Sec­sians make a serious response a general discussion of U.S.-So­about the administration shake­pect between two individuals of 
retary of State Henry A. Kissin­to ex_isting U.S thinking. viet relations, the secretary up that centered on Schlesi­strong minds." "We are prepared to look for said, "Detente is not a favor nger's dismissal and that he He said that the two had dis­
ger on Monday blamed the So­

an honorable compromise," the we grant to the Soviet Union. If personally had great respect
viet Union for a serious split in agreements on "certain techni­
talks on a new nuclear arms secretary said, "but it is up to the Soviet Union threatens our for the former Pentagon chief. cal matters, usually having to limitation treaty that has the Soviet Union to be prepared national interests or the nation­Still, Kissinger acknowledged, do with the SALT negotia­also to make a compromise." al interests of any of our allies, "There were differences be-tions."
brought negotiations to a vir­

the United States will resist.
tual halt. Kissinger also told newsmen 
"The United States," Kissin­


r----------------,
The secretary acknowledged that there will be no summit 
not still"

in a news conference that Mos­meeting in the United States ger said, "will hold t WHY PAY soc ON CAMPUS? t
for any Russian desires to ex­
cow had rejected the latest between President Ford and So­tend its domination.
American proposal for an viet Communist party learler f ALL CIGARETTES 38¢ PACK+ TAX t
Kissinger was also critical of
agreement to restrict the num­Leonid Brezhnev until there is 
ber of nuclear weapons pos­Soviet intervention in the tur­f CARTONS 85mm $3.33+ TAX f
a strategic arms limitation 
moil accompanying the inde­
sessed by the two superpowers. talks -SALT -treaty. "As it pendence of the former Portu­f CARTONS 1OOmm $3.44 TAX fHe said "it doesn't mean that \tands now .. . there is the stag­
guese African r.olony of Angola.
the chasm is very wide or is nation that I have described." 
f WE ALSO CARRY THE FOLLOWING f
unbridgeable." However, Kis­• The secretary's general atti­Talking of large shipments of singer went on, the United tude toward the Soviet Union Russian military equipment f HARD TO FIND SMOKES f into Angola, the secretary said a Gauloises Caporal $ .60 pack t 
such action is "not compatible ' Kojaks $1.09 pack.with the spirit of relaxation of f La Corona Whiffs $1.09 pack f tensions." Balkan Sobraine $ .95 tin

Blind boy plays footbgll-f 
In another area that domi­f Black Russians $1.60 pack f nated much of the 45-minute
TU'LSA, Okla. <AP) -John Tulsa star who is now an as­t MAR MAIN PHAWMCV t
news conference, Kissinger
Herring plays offensive tackle sistant. coach there. 
went to great efforts to absolve f 426 N. MICHIGANon his high school football team ­
himself of any responsibility for
largely by feel. He tackles what 'John doesn't have to ask for 
he can feel, because he can't help. "They dori't mention my President Ford's firing of Sec­

L-~!:'~1~~~~~'i2::~3..!_B_!_j
follow the ball. eyes," he says, "but they help retary of Defense James R. me on the bus at ni_ght and they
John is going blind. In eight 


guide me around.. after the -·············································· 
or 10 years he will be totally games." • • blind. (II John cannot see at night or • •
The junior at Tulsa's Me­under dark conditions. He canmorial High School has retinitis see when he is on the field of apigmentosa, a disease which 

well-ligttted stadium, but not • •eats away at the retina of the when he leaves.
eye. "There is no cure," Joann hardest thing • •
"The I've ever Herring, John's mother, says. had to do was stand back after • • "They are not even sure what a game at night and not reach • • causes it. All they know is that out my hand to him," his moth­• •

it is hereditary and one in 80 er says. "I know he cannot see. • persons carries the genes. But he has to grow up. He has • to learn to ask for help if he is "He knows what is in store. in trouble. Yet he is cheerful and bright. • • 
He is a fantastic kid." "Some boy has always come • • up to him to help, though. And • • 
John comes by his love for it never has been the same boy. • •football from his uncle, Jerry They don't make a big thing • •Rhome, a former University of out of it." • • 
: Presenting Colorado Sage : : men's cologne by Jess Bell :
•e A totally new fragrance formulated with sage plants that grow wild in •e • the beautiful high country of Colorado. Now you can enjoy the refreshing experience • : of Colorado Sage-pungent, fresh and pure-wherever you go. Yours in this unique : e men's collection designed by Jess Bell-Cologne, After Shave, Liquid Talc, Rubdown, • e Dry Skin Conditioner, Soap, Western Bronzer, and Deodorant. e 
• Available at • 

; NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE : 
Be a special kind of Navy Flyer. • • 
Be a Naval Flight Officer. • • 
Whenever a Navy plane is under electronic con­• • trol. that plane is in the hands of a Naval Flight • • Officer Naturally, as a candidate for Naval Flight • • Officer training you'll need some very special • • qualifications. First, you must really want to fly, • • even if you've never flown before. You'll also • • need a college degree and a sharp mind. 
Waiting at the end of your training program • • are the Golden Wings of a Naval Flight Officer. • • By then you'll be an expert in areas like Jet Navi­• • gation and Airborne Control ... equipped to do • • your job wherever you go. 
But whatever your specialty, travel will be • • part of your life. And so will challenge, responsi­• • bility, achievement and reward. • • 
If that's the kind of career you're looking for, • • and if you think you've got what it takes to be a •• ••Naval Flight Officer, see your local Navy re­cruiter. 
Be Someone Special. Fly Navy. • • 
A NAVY REPRESENTATIVE • • 
WILL BE AVAILABLE • • 
IN THE UNION BLDG. NOV. 18, 19, and20. • •
• 


-------------~-----­
..-..--------------~--------­
$12.4 billion in debts 
NYC's problems traced 
By I.EE MITGANG AP Business Writer 

NEW YORK <APl -A $26 
million entry in the New York 
City budget 11 years ago 
seemed out of place in the wil­
derness of numbers that total­
led $3.3 billion. 
Experts now say that small 
sum may have paved the way 
for the city's financial collapse 
II years later, as the nation's 
largest city now struggles to 
pay off $12.4 billion in debts 
and balance its budget. 
That $26 million was the first 
lime the city's politicians bor­
rowed money to pay for every­
day city expenses. 
In this case,former Mayor 
Hobert F. Wagner decided that 
rather than raise taxes or cut 
back on city services, he would 
take expense items -some 
consultant fees -and put them 
into the city's capital budget, 
which is financed by floating 
bonds and short-term notes. 
He was able to do this be­
cause in mid-1964, then-Gov. 
state legislature decided to al­
low the city to borrow money to 
pay for a variety of normal ex­
penses. 
The legal door was thus flung 
open for Wagner, former May­
or John V. Lindsay and Mayor 
Abraham D. Hearne to borrow 
for almost any expense item 
they pleased, while amassing a 
"hidden" budget deficit 
recently conceded by the 
Hearne administration at $3 bil­
lion. 
Expt>nsrs doublr 

In 1969 and 1970, Lindsay dou­bled current expense borrowing from $84 million to $151 million by switching manpower train­ing and job development from the expense budget to the capi­tal budget. 
In 1974, Hearne shifted $722 million in expense items to the capital budget. 
Last June, New York State Comptroller Arthur Levitt stud­ied the years when Lindsay was mayor and Hearne was comptroller, and found the city had used bonds to finance city salaries, library books, archi­tects fees, even interest on oth­er bonds. 
Most now expect the city's deficit financing of operating exrnses to top $1 billion in fis­ca 1975-76. 
"By borrowing to pay for op­erating expenses year after year, there develops a built-in, permanent need for more taxes, just to pay the interest on borrowings," Levitt said. 
The budget itself has quad­rupled in the past decade, from $3.3 billion in 1965 to a current $12.2 billion. 
Before Mayor Hearne was forced by the current fiscal crisis to lay off some 36,000 workers, the city's workforce had more than tripled from 103,000 in 1956 to 340,000 in mid­1975. 
Wages increase 

The floodgates for generous 
wage and pension benefits were 
opened by another Wagner de­
cision in 1958 to allow the city's 
workers the right to unionize as 
they wished. 
The unions first flexed their 
bargaining muscle in 1966, 
when city transit workers won 
a then-unheard of 15.7 per cent 
pay raise over two years after 
a crippling 12-day strike. 
Since then, the average tran­
sit worker's pay has gone from 
$7,222 a year to $15,125, up 109 
per cent, and some city unions 
have done even better. During 
this period the city's inflation 
rate has gone up 78.4 per cent. 
Over-all, a 1974 study by the Citizens Union Research Foun­dation showed that the city's pension costs had gone up more than 400 per cent in the past 10 years. Many workers can retire with at least half pay after 20 years of service, which is bet­ter on a percentage basis than terms offered almost anywhere else in the private or govern­ment sectors. 
A look at 10 years of city budgets by the Citizens Budget Commission shows that city pensions and salaries are not the whole story of New York City's fall towards default. 
Welfare times six 

Between 1965 and the present, welfare and social service costs have gone up six-fold to more than $2.4 billion. More than one million New Yorkers are on re­lief. New York foots a far larg­er share of its social services bill than any other large city, most of which have county and state help. 
Education costs, which in­clude a tuition-free college sys­tem even for wealthy students, have tripled to $2 billion. Since 1970, when open university en­rollment began, more than 19,­000 students were added, bring­ing the total to an estimated 270,800. 
The city's health costs, which include maintenance of 19 mu­nicipal hospitals, have likewise tripled to more than $1 billion. 
Other costs, including police and fire protection and environ­mental services, have also dou­bled and tripled in the past dec­ade. 
And debt service, the amount of budget money that goes to­ward paying off the city's bonds and notes, has gone from $470 million in 1965 to more than $1.8 billion -14 cents out of every city tax dollar. 
While costs have gone up, the city's corporate, personal and property taxes have not kept pace. 
Here, forces inside and out­side the city figure in, and they lie at the heart of the city's huge borrowing needs. 
Shirting populus 

New York City has ex­perienced great shifts of popu­lation since the 19th century, but the changes since World 
Wednesday, November 12, 197$ 
War II have been financially unfavorable. Prodded by feder­al government home mortgage guarantee and loan programs, the city's affluent moved to the suburbs in the 1950s to be joined by others fleeing crime and other urban ills through the 1960s. 
In the last decade nearly a million middle and upper­middle class New Yorkers have 
the observer 
9 


left, replaced by a million of the nation's poor, many of whom became welfare cases. 
Along with the middle class, many businesses have left the city, taking with them an esti­mated 500,000 jobs in the past five years alone. Meanwhile, New York City's latest unem· ployment figures stand at 12.2 per cent, while the national rate is 8.6 per cent. 


... 

l 
l 
• 
~ 
j 
I 
1 
• ~ 
View from the Empire State Building 
Nelson A. Rockefeller and the 

ROCK JAU. CLASSICAL BLUES-FOLK LABELS Grateful Dead Y usef L.ateef Maurice Abravanel, Utah Brownie McGhee Sine Qua Non Curtis Mayfield Jimmy Witherspoon Symphony Lightnin' Hopkins Westminster Gold Bette Midler Dave Brubeck William Steinberg, Pittsburgh Doc Watson RCAEric Clapton Ramsey Lewis Symphony Bully Sainte Marie VanguardJ. Geils Band Miles Davis Maurice Andre Otis Spann ColumbiaShaNaNa Duke Ellington Alfred Brendel Jimmy Rushing ElektraThree Dog Night John Coltrane Andres Segovia Joan Baez PhilipsCrosby, Stills, Nash & Young Cannonball Adderley London Symphony Orchestra John Lee Hooker Turnabout Sylvia Marlowe Atlantic and many others BEST OF STRAUSS VIRGIL FOX: BEETHOVEN: HANDEL: BRAHMS:-Beloved Waltzes. IN CONCERT NINE SYMPHONIES-Complete MESSIAH ­Complete COMPLETE SYMPHONIES Polkas and The organist of the William Steinberg Sir Adrian Boult and Featuring Sir Adrian Overtures­70's performs Bach conducts Pittsburgh the London Boult, the London Eduard Strauss and Symphony $14.98 Philhwmonic Philhwmonic;his orchestra $6.98 Choir and Leopold Stokowski, $6.98 Three record set Seven record set Orchestra $6.98 Houston Symphony, Three record set William Steinberg, Three record set TiiE BEST OF Pittsburgh JV.iJJ.~.l'lJ'J :;·r· 'J ' JULIAN BREAM: Symphony $8.98 THE CLASSICAL GUITAR Four record set Works of Bach, De Falla, Villa THE BAROQUE TRUMPET Lobos, Sor, Turina, AND HORN AT Torroba-Julian THEIR FINEST Bream, guitar $6.98 Maurice Andre. AdoH Scherbaum Three record set $9.98 Five record set NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE  


~-----------~-~---------­





Enrollment record broken 


Another record was broken this year as students from 62 foreign countries, an all-time high, enrolled at the University of Notre Dame. The new mark tops last 

Sponsored by the OMBUDSMAN SERVICE MondaythruFriday 9:30amto5:00pm Monday thru Thursday 9:00 pm to midnight phone 283-7638 
(}. Now that there is an AMTRAK line open to New York and Roston rrom South Bend, what is the price of a ticket? 
A. From SouthBendto New York a one-way ticket will cost $47.00 while a round trip ticket costs $94.00. To Boston $50:50 i~ the pri~~ of a one-way ticket and $101.00 for a round-tnp bc~et.. lo Cl~veland, a one-way ticket costs $13.50 and a round-tnp. ticket costs $27.00. To Rochester and Buffalo, New York, the pnces are $27 and $23 for a one-way ticket and $54 and $46 for a round-trip ticket, respectively. For any further information, the Amtrak office is open from 10:00 am to 7:00 pm weekdays. The phone number is 288-2212. Trains may be boarded at the South Bend Shore Station, 2702 West Washington. 
Q. Who is the president or the Pittsburgh Club? 
A. T.J. Hughes at 7443. 

Q. What time zone are we in now, since the rest or the nation has adjusted their clocks, and what major cities do we now t•orrespond with? 
A. We are in the Eastern Standard Time zone year round. The rest of the nation with the exception of Hawaii, Arizona and other parts of Indiana. change to Daylight Savings Time for the summer months causing Notre Dame to correspond in time with Chicago over the warmer half of the year and with New York over the colder half. Unfortunately, as of this past weekend, we are now in the colder half of the year 
Quinlan decision controversial 
MORRISTOWN, N.J. (AP) ­Doctors differed Tuesday on the impact of a judge's refusal to allow Karen Anne Quinlan's parents to order doctors to turn off the respirator that is keep­mg her alive. 
Superior Court Judge Robert Muir Jr. ruled Monday that nei­ther he nor the comatose wom­an's parents have the right to unhook the respirator, even though there is virtually no hope of recovery. Muir said the decision must be left to doctors. 
American Medical and Bar Association officials said the ruling properly vests physicians with discretion in life and death 


Japanese dog retires 
as team ball chaser 
KOMORO, Japan (AP) 
For four years, El, a male Box­
er dog, was the Tsukushi-Kai 
baseball team's ace ball cha­
ser, snaring foul flies behind 
home plate with his mouth and 
pumping his chunky legs to 
pursue foul balls outside the 
diamond. 
"El went after the ball like a 
pro," says his owner-coach, 
Masamitsu Sato, a company 
employe. "But he's getting old 
and we decided it was time he 
was retired." 
Last week the 8-year-old dog was honored at a ceremony by the Komoro Morning Baseball League, which awarded him a certificate and a large bag of bones. 
In his prime, Sato said, El thrilled fans by chasing foul balls like a seasoned ballplay­er. "He wasn't afraid to leap into the air, to climb over the fence or scamper about the wet grass." 
The Komoro Morning Basball League, made up of 38 amateur clubs, plays in the morning from May to October before the players report to their offices or factories, or open their shops in this small city about 90 miles northwest of Tokyo. 
"Although the league began as a means to keep us ama­teurs physically fit," Sato said, "many of us didn't relish trampling about the grass cov­ered with morning dew at 5:30 a.m." 
One day, Sato said, he no­ticed that El, a pedigreed Box­er for which he paid $660 eight years ago, showed interest in the game. 
"My original plan," Sato said, "was to have El help the boys train every morning doing road work." 
So Sato began teaching El to chase only foul balls in the out-

cases, but a neurologist who ex­But Dr. Julius Korein of New ami'led Miss Quinlan said the York University Medical Center ruling may set a harmful prec­said, "I'm afraid the decision is 
edent. 
going to make doctors afraid." 
"The care and treatment of a Dr. Korein, a leading neurolo­

patient and all decisions related thereto remain the responsi­bility of the treating physi­cian," said Dr. Max H. Parrott of Portland, Ore., president of the American Medical Associ­ation. 
"There are too many medical decisions being made now by the courts," said Dr. McCarthy DeMere of Memphis, Tenn., chairman of the American Bar Association's law and medicine committee. 
field and to stay off the dia­mond. El caught on and even­
tually became  an  attraction.  He  
also jumped for foul  tips  on  the  
third strike,  Sato said.  

"Of course," Sato added with a chuckle, "there were times when El got his signals crossed and he and the catcher would both dash for the foul ball be­hind home plate. There would be a tangle, usually with El c~ming out on top." 
year's 61, the previous high, and marks a steady increase from the 49 nations represented as the decade opened in 1970. 
The 308 students, an increase over last year's 302, showed a preference for the College of Arts and Letters for the first time. The majority in previous years leaned toward the College of Engineering. 
The 194 graduate and 114 un­dergraduate students include 82 in Arts and Letters, 78 in Engineering, 64 in Science, 50 in Business Administration, 32 in Freshman Year of Studies, and two in Law School. 
Taiwan, where Notre Dame recently opened a "year-abroad" program, dropped to third place in the number of students represented, after leading last year with 36 and the previous year with 45. The 27 students from Nationalist China are compared this year to India's 34 and Canada's 29. 
Freshmen, with 32 students. 
gical researcher who examined Miss Quinlan in October at her parents' request, said publicity surrounding the ruling would 
cause  many  doctors  to  continue  
hopeless  treatments.  
During  a  five-day  hearing  on  

the Quinlans' request, Korein said most doctors obey "an un­written law" in which treat­ment is denied when a case is beyond hope. 
Now, he said, when the same question arises, "doctors are going to be curtailed when it comes to turning something off. 
"The maintenance of an irre­versible vegetative state by ex­traordinary means is not equivalent to maintenance of life," Korein said. 
Doctors estimate Miss Quin­lan can be kept alive for more than a year by use of the res­pirator. 
It costt; $450 per day to keep Miss Quinlan alive. The state Medicaid system is paying the bill because she is 21, unem­ployed and without medical in­surance. It is estimated that since April Miss Quinlan has received care worth more than $120,000. 
comprise the largest number of five-year program. Rev. Daniel J. undergraduates, followed by O'Neil, C.S.C., serves as director seniors, 26; sophomores, 25; of the Office of International Affairs at Notre

MAC'S RECORD RPCK 


Today and T(Jllorrow Lafortune Student Lt:>nter 
9:00 am to 3:00 pm 
WINTER SPECIALS DISC 0

B RlL I  E DRUM$599EPremi~=~~~~Eb~:ke  
linings ( 4 wheels). turn  

'4 


-. v \1 ..,_ ~: \ -,.. ~ • • c· • I'~"'' 



11

Wednesd•y, November 12, 1975 the observer
14-year period 


Gulf lobbyist admits delivering donations 
WASHINGTON <AP> -A former Gulf Oil Corp. lobbyist says he made a series of cross­country trips over a 14-year pe­riod to give politicians and Gulf officials sealed envelopes which contained cash in at least two instances. 
Frederick A. Myers told fed­eral investigators he made the deliveries under orders from Gulf's former top lobbyist, Claude C. Wild Jr., to public of­ficials or their aides in offices, airports, hotel rooms and wash­rooms and, in one case, behind a barn. 
He also said he made several trips each year to Capitol Hill to deliver sealed envelopes. Myers said he had no idea what the envelopes contained, except in two instances where he saw them opened and they con-
Myers said he neither asked about nor was told the purpose of delivering the envelopes. 
In a deposition with the Secu­rities and Exchange Commis­sion, Myers said recipients of the envelopes included: tained cash. 
Former Sen. Fred Harris, D­Okla., former Sen. Howard W. Cannon, D-Nev., and former Sen. D. Edwin Mechem, R­N.M., all in 1964; former Kan­sas Gov. William A very in 1966; former Indiana congress­man and current Veterans Ad­ministration head Richard L. Roudebush in 1970 and a "Mr. Farris," identified by Myers as a Gulf Oil district manager who 
was  running  for  vice  mayor  of  
Atlanta in  1969.  
Myers  said  Harris  came  to  

the Gulf lobbyist's hotel room 

WANTED 

Call 291-1887 about driving new Granada to Manchester, Missouri around Dec. 20th. Couple need driver. All ex­penses. References. 
Wanted: 2 Pitt tickets. Top dollar. Call Mark 288-5261. 
Need ride to Cincinnati Nov. 14. Will share driving and ex­penses. 4-5347. 
NPed 2 Pitt tickets. Call 1522. 
$$. 

NPed ride to Missouri area (SPdalia) tor Thanksgiving brPak.. Call Grorge 32l9. 
NPE'd 1 Pitt ticket 272-3294. 
NPPd 4 Pitt tickets. Call Mark at 272-5133. 
Need ride to Minnesota weekend of Nov. 14th. Call Ann 5166. 
PleasE'! RPally need up to 6 Pitt tickets. Call Mark 3462. 
Need ride to Louisville for Thanksgiving break Nov. 24 or Nov. 25. Call Carol 6834. 
Want riders to NY State-leavE' Thurs. (Nov. 13) or Fri. Return Sunday. Call Mike Raftis 272­1475. 
Wanted: Ride to Toledo this Friday. Call Peggy 6661. 
Need a ride to Rochester, NY for Thanksgiving. Will share driving and expenses. Call 1281. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: One Voit football South Dining He~ll1ast Thursday. Call 1600. RPward. 
Lost dog after HalloWPE'n party at NO Ave. and WaynE'. All black with white spot on chest, answPrs to Simone. RPward 288-2825. 
Found: set of keys In red leaf· her case outsidE' Library Nov. 5. Call Butch 1628 to claim. 
FOR SALE 

Super Sealy double bed for sale. Mattress, box spring, frame . $50. Good shape. Call 272-6831. 
FOR RENT 

Two female housemates wanted to share 3-bedroom house immPdiately and-or next semester. 2112 blocks from Angela & NO intersection. Call 289-4303 belwPen 5 PM and 10 PM. 
For RPnt: 2nd semPstPr st­udent house. Very close to campus. 2 bedroom, paneled. All nPw kitchen appliances and washPr. Rent negotiable. Call Marty at. 287-5113. 
OnE' bedroom apartment in modern complex to sublet. Call 283·7446 or 233-6561. 
RPnt my upstairs. Near $50 mo. 233·1329. KPep trying. 
PERSONALS 

Celebrate 21 years of UD. Gl~e MJ a POTA and make her rich. Today only, all can afford it. 
Kathie, Karen, Claire, Judy, When are we having the party? Roger. 
Watch for the Get-Down Hoe. Down. 
Friday is National Overalls Day 
!! 
NOTICES 
The Ultimate in Comfort . Jasper pants only S10 at Jen­nifer's · now at Scottsdale, upper level, across from scotch Mist. 
JE'WE'Iry 33 percent Off 
turquoise,  sterling,  coral  and  
diamond Pngagement sets.  234·  
7063.  

Morrissey Loan Fund • S20 . S150. 1 day waiting period; 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune basement M. F 11:15 · 12:15. 
Accurate, fast typing. Call Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. 
USED BOOKS AND 
receive one free papPrback v any $1.00 purchase. Bookstack, 112 W. LPxin Elkhart, Ind. 46514. 
SENIORS! Nominal• Senior Class Fellow. r 
Architecture Students Beaux Arts Ball. Si• November IS. Music : ratus. 10 PM to 3 AM. Ti· available In Architecl e 
Library. SinglE' S2.50, couple $5.00. Refreshments available. 
Platform Committee hearing on Gun Control for Mock Con. ventlon Thursday 8:00 PM library auditorium. Public invited. 
Pregnant and didn't mean to be ? Call Birthright 288-7640. 
Budapest night . 1989 Pre~rie Ave. Only Hungarian reste~urant in Michiana area. Open 5:00 . 10:00 Tues. thru Sat. Serving American dinners but specializing in Hungarian entrees. Serving beer and inported wines. For reservat­
·ons call 234·2332. 
' 
... 

HPC Chairman and Secretary Elton Johnson and Joanne O'Rourke present the H PC Rockne Trophy to Lewis Hall for their excellence in hall activities during the month of September. Accepting the trophy for Lewis is Pat Tack, Hall Presidnnt. The trophy, awarded last Sunday, will remain at Lewis until Nov. 18. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
UN resolution brings reaction from US 
UNITED NATIONS, N.Y. eluding the World Council of <AP> -The United Nations Churches, condemned the as­braced for hard times Tuesday sembly's vote. The World Coun­as the United States reacted cil, representing most of the angrily to a resolution adopted world's major Protestant and by the General Assembly call-Orthodox denominations, voiced ing ionism "a form of racism." "unequivocal opposition" to the 
Some U.N. officials feared resolution and appealed to the that Congress would show its United Nations to reconsider. displeasure by cutting appro-There was no immediate com­priations for the American vol-ment from the Vatican, al­untary contributions that are a though news of the Assembly main source of support for such vote was published prominently United Nations programs as aid in the Vatican newspaper. to developing countries, refugee The Senate's nonbinding reso­and emergency relief. lution of condemnation, ap-
A storm of criticism erupted proved by voice vote without Tuesday -ranging from politi-disent, calls on the Senate For­cians to church gt~:·1ps -after eign Relations Committee and the assembly adopten the anti-the House International Rela­Zionism resolution Monday tions Committee to begin im-. night by a vote of 72 to 35 with mediate hearings "to reassess · 32 abstentions and three nations the United States' further parti­absent. cipation in the United Nations 
The U.S. Senate called for a General Assembly." 
review of U.S. participation in U.N. bureaucrats, though ex­
the assembly. President Ford, pressing concern about cut­
during a meeting with nine vis-backs in U.S. voluntary pay­
iting members of the Israeli ments, said they thought it less 
parliament, denounced the U.N. likely that Congress would 
move as a "wholly unjustified withhold assessed dues for the 
action," a spokesman said. regular budget. The American 
Rep. Morris Udall of Arizona, portion is 25 per cent of the 
a candidate for the Democratic budget, more than $80 million 
presidential nomination, said of a $290 million budget for this 
the assembly vote may result year. 
in a "full reappraisal of tile Three years ago, Congress 
United States' participation and reduced the U.S. share of the 
its role in funding the U.N." regular U.N. budget from 31.5 
A State Depar-tment spokes-per cent to the present 25 per 
man said, "We will be review-cent in an outgrowth of the un­
ing carefully a response," and successful American effort to 
did not rule out reduced finan-keep the Nationalist Chinese 
cia! support as an option. government on Taiwan in the 
Christian organizations, in-'•world body. 
· in Oklahoma City for the enve­lope, while Mechem took deliv­ery behind the barn on his New Mexico ranch. Roudebush met Myers in the lobby of an In­dianapolis hotel and escorted Myers to the bathroom of Roudebush's room, where the envelope was handed over. The other recipients accepted the envelopes in their offices, Myers said. Myers said he gave envelopes to people he understood to be aides of former Sen. Wallace Bennett, R-Utah, and Rep. James A. Burke, 0-Mass., both in 1962; Rep. Herman Schneeb­eli, R-Penn., in 1964; Sen. How­ard M. Baker, R-Tenn., in 1966; former Sen. Marlow Cook, R­Ky., in 1968, and Rep. Joe L. Evins, R-Tenn., in 1970. None of the recipients was available for comment. 
Myers said the man he un­derstood to be Evins' represen­tative was one of two recipients who opened the envelopes in Myers' presence. But Myers said he could not remember the name of the man who accepted the envelope nor the Tennessee town where the exchange took 
, place. One of the Gulf officials al­leged to have received an enve­lope denied any memory of the incident and denied ever re­ceiving or expending corporate cash for campaign donations. "Oil companies often trans­mit sensitive geophysical or po­litical information by courier," said a letter from the attorney for Gulf executive vice presi­dent William L. Henry. The letter was appended to a deposition given Security and Exchange Commission attor­neys by Myers on Oct. 20 and 
filed with the U.S. District records." Court in Washington Oct. 30 as The spokesman also quoted part of the SEC suit against Roudebush as saying it was Wild over alleged illegal cam­common in Senate campaignspaign donations. for donors to give money 
directly to candidates, but that Roudebush was in Savannah, 

when he received envelopes

Ga., for a Veterans Day cere­with donations he turned it over 
mony but a spokesman who to aides. reached him quoted' Roudebush 
Schneebeli denied receiving as saying: "I just don't remem­

anything from the lobbyist.

ber the donation, and if I did 
The other alleged recipients

get it it was reported in the did not comment immediately. 
r-~~~~~~~~~~~ 
1 Mile North of NOTRE Just South of NORTH VILLAGE MIDNITE SPECIAL!Fri.-sat. 
~ESUS CHRIST SUPERSTAR~· 
r.;'l ~Giant Rock Cast! ~~And at REDUCED PRICES! 
-


CLASSIFIED RDS 

12 the observer Wednesday, November 12, 1975 
Prep team vital part of victory 
by Fred Herbst 

The names on the Notre Dame prep team's roster aren't familiar to most fans, but they're an essential ingredient in the success of the Irish football program. 
It's the responsibility of the prep squad to prepare thevarsityoffense and defense for whatever they may face from an upcoming opponent. The offensive prep team always runs theopponent's offense against thevarsitydefense during practice, while the defensiveprep team an opponent's defense against the varsityoffense. 
"When we stoppd Georgia Tech last Saturday," said Greg Blache, head JV coach, "the kids on the ofrensive prep team were just as responsible as Niehaus, Fry and the rest of them. The same is true of the defensive prep team, when the offense moves the ball they have a lot to do with it." 
While the varsity has the op­r)(lrtunity to execute what they practice on Saturday, the prep
-squad doesn't. "I get a lot of satisfaction from working with these guys," Blache said. "It's easy to practice when you know you'll play on Saturday. It's not that easy when you know you won't." Despite this, the prep squad continues to do its job. According to Blache the varsity has gone into every game totally prepared , thanks to the prep team. "It's tough for these guys to ~orne out here knowing they won't play in the upcoming game, but they realize that they're doing their part,"Blache said. "I have a great deal of pride in these guys, a lesser group of men would have 
quit long ago." 
There are a few incentives for 
players on the prep squad. By 
doing well on thf' prep squad, a 
player has a chance at being 
promoted to the varsity. Most of 
the players on the varsity team 
were at one time or another on the 
prep team. "No guy on the prep 
squad is satisfied," Blache noted, 
"and I won't have it an'' other 
way." · 
The prep squad also plays 
several games a year against JV 
teams from other schools. This 
season the team finished 
undefeated, rolling over four op­
ponent:, The prep squad had one 
game r ~maining with Michigan, 
but Blache cancelled it. "I'm fully 
aware that many people are 
second guessing me," he said, 
"and saying that I'm afraid of 
losing. But I'd much prefer them 
to second guess me, than to have to 
second guess myself when a player 
suffers a serious injury. I know 
who my football players are, and 
there's nothi!lg left for us to 
learn." He noted that it would be a 
different situation if the team was 
healthier. 
The double role, that of a separate team and 'hat of being a scrimage team for the varsity, presents problems. By working all week running an opponent's. offense and defense against the varsity, the prep squad has little time to practice their own offense and defense. , Consequently, the prep teain begins practice earlier than the varsity and remain after the varsity go in. 
The job of the prep team does have its personal rewards. "When you run a play all week and they 



Welch improving quickly 
by Mik~ Towle 

Steve Welch is quickly repudiating a theory concerning the transition from high school !eve} of athletic competition to the collegiate level. This theory assumes that the transition is too insurmountable a barrier for a freshman cross country runner to immediately overcome. After an, having to run five-six mile races ... would seem to require at least a year or two of gradual adjustment. You see, high school meets are usually held on courses only two­three miles in length and don't necessitate the physical endurace associated with the longer races in college. No great problem to Steve 
though, as he puts forth a simple philosophy: 
''There is a difference in that collegiate cross country requires you to run five-six miles at least at the same pace that you ran two­three miles in high school, I never saw half-mile hills like I have so far this year." 
Apparently, the Hannibal, Missouri native never met many other obstacles while in high sLhool, either, at least, not until his senior year. The sophomore sensation he was, Steve finished secon< · both the Missouri state crosse, ~rychampionship and the two m ·vent in track. He fell to third oss country a year later bd ,, ,anage towin both the stc..te, and two mile crowns. Luckil: 1e did so well his junior year, b( -.·ause there was to be no competition for him in his senior year at Hannibal High School. 
"I tore a hip muscle in the fall and then came down with ten­donitis in my left knee," Steve explains. "I was quite disap­pointed at the time and was unable to resume workouts until June this past summer." 
Early workouts consisted of daily, mile and a half runs and eventually saw Steve putting in weekly totals of 95 miles by the end of August. 
Now mid-November, the 
training has contunued to pay off .. dividends. Just recently, Notre 
Dame Coach Joe Piane elevated Welch to the number one position on the 1Irizh squad, and rightly so too. With captain Jim Hurt nur­sing a sore hip, Steve stepped into the top ranks by leading the Notre Dame contingent in each of their las-t four meets, including a 22nd place finish in the Notre Dame Invitational and an eighth place at Madison in the Wisconsin In­vitational. Such per­formances have been the trademark of the freshman throughout the autumn. In his first meet on September 13, he came in third in a double dual meet at P;Jrdue. Two weeks later, it was third again, this time at home against Michigan State, Don't be amazed though, because because Steve isn't. 
He says, '·f'm not surprised that I am running well this year. In every meet, I run a better race than I did in the previous meet. I consider myself a consistently, improving runner, not one that has up and down performances from meet to meet." 
Speaking of surprises, Notre Dame should not be overly sur­prised that Steve Welchdecided to enroll here, he was planning on coming here all along. He adds, "I chose Notre Dame not onlyfor its 
track-cross coutry program, but 


Irish regulars depend on the prep team to get them ready for the upcoming opponent. 
then you see the defense stop it on Saturday, you get a good feeling," said AI Bucci, prep team fullback. 
"Playing on the prep team (!oesn't really bother me," Bucci said. "I just like to play football. Besides, working against the varsity gives · you a chance to improve and maybe make the v~rsity ." 
"The big thing about being on the prep team is not being in­timidated by the varsity, you've got to go after them like you would anyone else," Bucci said . 
for the school itself. (Steve graduated first in a class of about 280 students). When you go to get a job afer college, it helps to have that diploma that says Notre Dame on it. Besides, I was influenced by their spirit and unificaton exhibited by the students when I visited some dorms last last year." 
Now that he is a student here, Steve should have no trouble maintaining that spirit because his Howard Hall roommate is Dave Benkert, a freshman half-miler who cameherefor similar reasons and puts forth an equal enthusiasm for the school. Steve gives an example of his own competitive spirit: 
"I came here hoping to quality for the NCAA championship in my freshman year and would like very much to reach All-American status before I graduate from here." 
This Saturday (the 15th), Welch will get the opportunity to realize his first goal when Notre Dame travels to Bloomington, Indiana for the NCAA district 4 qualifying meet. It could also be the day that Steve Welch completes the tran­sition from high school to college that is, if he hasn't done so already: 

The members of the prep team work as hard as any Notre Dame football player, but get few of the benefits. "The guys I've had this season have been exceptional people," Blache said. "They've helped me more than I've helped them in things like class, deter­mination and desire. They're always prepared, they maintain their academics and they 
never complain. They're a great tribute to Notre Dame football." 
*Observer 
.Sports 
Pick up for student b-ball tickets begins next week 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's students who purchased season basketball tickets may pick them up at the Box Office, second floor of the Athletic and Convocation Center on any of the following days: 
Wednesday -November 19 
Thursday -November 20 
Friday -November 21 
Notre Dame upperclassmen, Grad Students, Lawyers and Married St­
udents must present their ID cards and the receipt issued when the ticket 
was paid for at our Ticket Office. 
Notre Dame freshmen and St. Mary's students, who ordered by mail 
must present their ID cards. ' 
IMPORTANT NOTE: Student ticket orders have already been 
assigned and filled. Hence, day or time of day the ticket is called for will have no bearing on seat location. Box Office is open from nine to four, including the noon hour. 
Irish 9th in polls 
Ohio State retained its number one ranking in both the AP and UPI polls this week. The Buckeyes downed Illinois to remain undefeated. 
Oklahoma, previously rated second, dropped to 6t'. and 7th after being upset by Kansas 23-3. Nebraska overtook second iJi.ace, followed by Texas A&M andMichigan. The top four teams are undefeated. 
The Irish, meanwhile, moved up to ninth place in both polls by merit of their 24-3 drubbing of Georgia Tech. Southern California fell to 13th in the AP poll and 17th in the UPI poll after being upset for the second week in a 
row, this time by Stanford. 
UPI grid poll 
1st Pl. 'W. L. T. Volts f'n, 
1. OhiO Still 2. NtWiska 3. Tells A&M 4. MldtltiR 5. AlaiNIIIII 6. TIIH 7. Oltiii!Ofnl t. AriZOIII St. 9. Notn Da1111 10. PHn St. 11. ArllOM  ~ I : 1 o o 7 0 2 : ~ : 1 1 I f 0 0 7 2 0 I 2 0 7 1 0  ~  ~~ 303 271 ~f: 171 93 33 29 25  
12. Colorllllo  7  2  0  24  

13. Callfomll 6 3 0 15 12. AtiZOIII 
6 2 1 12 13. s. Callforlll•
1::~~ 7 2 o 11 14. Florida 
16. 
Miuovrl 6 3 0 f u. california 

17. 
SOifiMm Cll' 1 2 o ' 16. M11m1, o. 


l7. AtUMII 6 2 t 6H.Kiftsas 
19. KIMII. 6 '2 I 5 11. Missouri 
19. Gttrtll 7 2 0 5 19. UCLA :20. Gt«1i1 
AP grid poll 
111 Place W L T Votn Pts. 
'I 0 0 49 1,13&, 900 8 1.054 aoo 1 175 7 0 2 721 • 1 0 687 • 1 0 621 110 605 900 393 7 2 0 252 720 223 I 2 0 214 710 206 7 2 0 114 720 111 6 3 0 107 I 1 0 88 
' :1 0 56 
' 3 0 5~ ' 2 1 50 
7 2 0 471 
1. 
Ollio state 

2. 
Ntllnska 

3. 
Texas A&M­


:: ~~~:" 
6. Okl1homa 
7. TtiiS 
1. Arizona State 
9. 
Notre Damt 

10. 
Colorado 

11. 
Ptnn State 







