For mayoral race 
S.B. campaigns intensify 
By Mark Murphy Starr Ht>porter 
Democrat Peter J. Nemeth, Hepublican John Slafokosky and Independent Ronald R. Kronewitter put their mayoral election campaigns into high gear this w£>ek as South Bend residents prepare to go to the polls Nov. 4. 
Campaigns for nine Common Council positions and for the office of city clerk are also included in the city'smunipicipal elections this year. 
Nemeth, a city councilman since 1971. surprisingly defeated current South Bend mayor Jerry Miller in 

· the April Democratic mayoral primary. Because of that victory, the strength of the South Bend Democratic party in recent years and his popularity as councilman, he is favored over Slafkosky and Kronewitter. Born in South Bend, Nemeth 1-(raduatt•d from the University of Arizona and obtained his law dl•grt'e from Columbia Univeristy. he is a practicing attorney in South Bend and was Deputy Prosecutor for St. Joseph County from 1967 to 
1971. 
Slafkosky, a 1963 Notre Dame graduate, is a former city GOP chairman and has been a Republican precinct com­mitteeman for the past three years. Now a sales representative for a natonal firm, the former Irish football tackle played professional football before retiring in 1965. 
Throughout the campaign Slafkosky has criticized Nemeth for not agreeing to pubic debates with all the candidates. The GOP t'ontender has based much of his campaign on the implementation of a citizen volunteer patrol program to aid the police in crime observation and detection. 
Stating that he "is not a politician", Independent candiate Honald R. Kronewitter fights an uphill battle to become South Bend's next mayor. A graduate of Indiana University, he also spent four years in the Air Force and is an art teacher at Clay Middle St'hool. 
Kronewitter said his non­political background gives him a fresh viewpoint on the city's problems. He claims that too many politicians are tied to party politics and don't serve the community as they should. 
This year's campaign has been labeled as "lwo-key and dead" by area political analysts and only last night did the election at­mosphere intensify. 
The candidates for the first time met jointly and fielded questions from area media representatives. Appearing on Pulic Television (WNIT >, the candidates outlined their respective proposals and reacted to each other's statements. 
Slafkosky emphasized that South Bend's two main problems were crime and downtown revitalization. His proposed Neigh­borhood Assistance Bureau (NABVl, a citizen patrol group, would "definitely be a deterrent to crime in the city," he said. 
"This is not a vigilante system," Slafkosky noted, "but rather a trained organization of volunteers screened by experts and working directly with the police depart­ment." 
Nemeth called Slafkosky's 
(continued on page 6) 

Nikki Giovanni 
(Photo by Paul Clevenger.) 


Giovanni discusses 

Vol. X. No. 31 
...~ 

Wednesday, October IS, 1975 

lifestyles in U.S. 
by Sue Carey Staff Hl'JJOrtt>r 
Poet Nikki Giovanni urged an audience of 300 people at St. 
Mary's Little Theatre last night to become more concerned about 
the world outsidetheirown experience. 
"We have to realize that the world is not South Bend, much less 
Notre Dame, much less St. Mary's," she declared. 
The la_st of a series of speakers at St. Mary's commemorating the lnternatwnalYear of the Woman, Giovanni blamed wealthy and corrupt public officials for the inequalities in American society. "This whole country is going broke because we're supporting the very, very rich over the poor," she declared. "I'm not anti­materialism, but I also know that I can live without it, you can live without it, and together we can find something better," the poet asserted. 
_Educa~ed at Fisk University and the University of Pennsylvania, 
Gwvanm has taughtEnglishat Queens College in New York and at 
Livingston College in New Jersey. 
Originally intending to write short stories, Giovanni turned "out of frustration" to poetry. She has published several collections of poems, including her latest, The Women and The Men, which ex­plores what it means to be a woman today. 
Giovanni abandoned the militant black movement of the 60's 
when she came to believe "all that old-fashioned violence" was fut­
ile. "You find yourself surrounded by people you don't like and 
neglecting people you do like," she observed. 
Unlike most black poets, Giovanni writes a great deal of love 
poetry. "It's a one-woman crusade," she admitted, noting that the 
black man has not been considered a romantic figure in the past. 
Giovanni asserted that despite poverty and oppression, the black experience in America is valid subject matter for poetry. "I hope that white people will never try to write about me," she noted however. "They don't know that black love is the real black wealth." 
Giovanni optimistically expressed hope that people can live together on this planet. "Mankind has to go forward together, whether on our knees or on our feet." 
Tom Birsic (Photo by Tom Lose.) 
Student Union 
Budget process improves financial state 
By Marjorie lrr Staff Heporter 

"The Student Union budget process has put our budget in the best shape it has ever been in," said Tom Birsic, Student Union director. 
Birsic blamed last year's problems on poor fianancial handling and outlined plans for this year's budget. 
Birsic reported that last year's Student Union was budgeted for $40,000 and expenditures reached $91,000. "I'd like to emphasize that expenditures were due to poor handling of the budget and lack of financial organization," said Birsic. 
"Last year, they didn't know where they were or what to expect in expenditures and revenues," he continued. . 
"Although we were given $50,000 this year, $10,000 more than last year, if we operate within our budget, it will be a 40 percent cut that we will be working with," he said. 
Citing the concert and Cultural Arts commissions as financially troubled in 1974-75, Birsic said, "Last year the concert com­mission had probably its worst financial year since its creation in 1966. The Cultural Arts Com­mission went $12,000 over what it was budgeted for." 
Birsic explained that the Concert Commission is budgeted to produce revenue. However, that ('Ommission spent about $15,000 last year. That's a big expenditure on a commission that should be earning money," he said. 
·"Working through the spring and summer, our primary focus was to turn that commission around. Gabe Zarnoti, this year' s Concert Commissioner, has done an outstanding job with the first semester,.' said Birsic. 
The concert Commission was allotted $2,000 this year. "We have one of the best concert schedules this year, so we are sure to bring in revenue. This should be the best financial year that the Concert 
Commissionhas ever seen," stated Ibudgets is that of the Academic 
Birsic. Commission, which sponsors some 
"In spite of last year's financial of the more prestigious campus 

problems, things look better than activities," he said. 
ever with the Cultural Arts "By co-sponsoring events such 
Commission," he said. as the Mock Convention, we have 
"This vear's commissioner is expanded this commission to serve 

Chris Mahon, who headed last the student body as a whole," Cain 
year's Sophomore Literary said. 

'We have one of the best concert schedules this year, so we are sure to bring in revenue.' 
Festival. The festival proved that Mahon is very capable," Birsic added. 
The Cultural Arts· Commission is budgeted this year for $21,205, at expected loss. The commission is not expected to earn revenue, but to spend the allotted sum. 
Jamie Cain; associate director, discussed the Academic Com­miSSIOn , which is headed by Dennis Pijor. 
"One of the most impressive 
"The Social Commission was also part of the financial restruct­uring in Student Union," said Birsic. "Social Commission finances last year were inter­vened with Concerts. Social Commission was the weak sister because of some personnel dele­tions." 

"Now that the two are separate, they are both strong com­missions," he continued. 
The Services Commission, ac­cording to Birsic, is scheduled to make money. 
The Union Administration is budgeted for $2,500. 
"This has been brought down almost $4,000 from last year's $6,000 Administration expenditure. 
This appropriation is basically a leverage ligure." 
''It allows Student Union some flexibility for events which arise in the· course of the year. An example of such an event was last year's Steve Goodman Concert at Mardi Gras," Birsic explained. 
In conclusion, Birsic sum­marized the Sh1dent Union budget structure as realistic. 
"Student Union was the best organized for the Student Government budget hearings. That's why we got the sum that we did. Our budgets are set uo realist­ically. We are constantly read­justing them andkeepingthem up t­
o date. And most important, we will followthem.''Birsic concluded. 


WASHINGTON <AP> -The Air Force lost its first multimillion dollar F15 fighter plane Tuesday when a jet from Luke Air Force Base in Arizona crashed 75 milres northwest of the base, military officials said. 
The pilot, identified as Capt. Jerry L. Hanchey of Glendale, Ariz., 
ejected and escaped with minor injuries, the Air Force said. VALLETTA, Malta <AP>-A British air force bomber exploded in flight and crashed in flames Tuesday, killing a 16-year-old girl, leaving five crewmen missing and presumed dead and injuring 20 other persons, officials said. 
The wreckage of the plane, which split in two, landed on a narrow street in Za_bbar, eight miles from Valletta, setting homes afire and shattering windows. It narrowly missed heavily populated areas and two colleges with more than 1,000 students. 
HARRISBURG, Pa. <AP) -Jeremy Shaffer got tired of waiting for Janet Shaffer to go shopping so he decided to go by himself. 
He grabbed the car keys Monday, left the house, started the car, rammed the gear shift into reverse and promptly crashed into a parked car. 
Police said they wouldn't press charges and left the matter in the hands of Mrs. Shaffer, grandmother of three-year-old Jeremy. 
LI~BON, Portugal (AP)-Gen. Carlos Fabiao, head of the Port­uguese army, gave in to mutinous soldiers Tuesday and agreed to reinstate leftist activists purged from a transport unit in northern Oporto, military authorities reported. 
The agreement came after Fabiao met for three hours with leaders of a week-old revolt of soldiers at an artillary garrison out­side the city. 

an campus taday 
12:15 pm -­
3:25 pm -­
4:30pm -­
4:30pm -­
6:00pm -­6:45pm -­7:30pm -­
seminar, "immune status of germfree animals fed antigenfree diets" by dr. julian r. pleasants, rm 278 galvin life science ctr aud. 
lecture, "coal gasification" by dr. awinaaeh t. talwalkar, coordinator, process data, institute of gas technology, chicago, rm 269 chem. eng. bldg. 
nieuwland lectures, "Integration of strangers into new entities: intracellular mutualism" by dr. trager, galvin life science ctr aud. 
colloquium, "intense sources of fast neutrons for radiaton therapy and fusion technology" by prof. heinz barschall, univ. of wissconsin, rm 118, nieuwland science hall. 
meeting, sailing club, boathouse. 
vespers, evensong, log chapel. 
concert, folk concert, o'laughlin aud., part of oktoberfest. 
7:30-9:30 pm formal and "hustle" dance lessons, with fran demarko, $2 for faculty, students and staff, Iafortune ballroom. 8 pm & 10 pm film, "stagecoach" engineering aud. 8:15pm--concert, maria prnell, viola, library aud. 
SAN FRANCISCO <AP) Jailed newspaper heiress Patri­l'ia Hearst doesn't expect to be set free, according to the attor­ney wha withdrew from her de­fense team. 
Terence Hallinan, who repre­sented Miss Hearst from her arrest Sept. 18 until last week, also said in an interview pub­lished Tuesday that Miss Hearst had been converted to a "leftwing person" but still was far short of the "supermilitant radical'' image she projected when taken into custody. 
Hallinan was interviewed by the weekly newspaper Berkeley Barb before and after his Oct. 6 announcement that he was withdrawing from the defense ranks. He would not specify the reasons for his departure, other than to say, "They didn't want me interfering." 
Hallinan also said: "They'd have to pay me a million dol­lars" before he would rejoin the defense team, now headed by flamboyant Boston attorney 
F. Lee Bailey and his partner, A:lbert Johnson. 
Hallinan's withdrawal came amid reports that other defense attorneys were bargaining to have Miss Hearst turn state's evidence. 
However, in a telephone in­terview from his Boston office, Johnson said Hallinan had bowed out for reasons of his own and again denied that the defense was plea bargaining. 
Hallinan was asked in the In­terview if Miss Hearst ex­pectedto go free. 
"I don't think so," he an­swered, adding that she ap­pears prepared for the possi­bility of going to prison "as best she can be, considering her state." 
Hallinan said Miss Hearst un­derwent changes during her travels with the Symbionese Liberation Army but she was 

Gunman surrenders at Tahoe 
KINGS  BEACH,  Calif.  <APl  /came out  accompanied by three  
- A  man  armed  with  a  rifle  officers  and  another  man  be­ 
took  four  hostages  in  a  recrea­ lieved  to  a  friend  who  had  

tion complex on· the shores of , flown to the resort from San Lake Tahoe on Tuesday, then 1 Diego in an effort to persuade 
later released all of them and gave himself up. 
"I've robbed a bank, I've shot a cop and I don't know how I'm going to get out of this," the gunman told one of his captives several hours be­fore he surrendered. 
Moments before the armed man gave up, a sheriff's officer who had been negotiating with him emerged from the building 
carrying the rifle the man used in the 8-hour seige. Then the disarmed man, hands cuffed behind his back, 
Brlg• • Gen•dera J r speaks Frl ay 
Brig. Gen. James R. Brickel, commandant of the Air Force Reserve Officers Training Corps (AFROTCl, Maxwell Air Force, Ala., will meet with Aerospace Studies officers and students at Notre Dame Friday. 
The former deputy assistant to the Secretary of Defense, Brickel is a command pilot with more than 3,000 flying hours. 
His decoratiOns and awards include the Air Force Cross, Distinguished Service Medal, Silver Star, Legion of Merit, Distinguished . Flying Cross, Air Medal with 10 Oak Leaf clusters, Presidential Unit Citation Emblem and the Air Force Outstanding Unit Award Ribbon with one oak cluster. 
him to surrender. 
The gunman was taken to a sheriff's department substation and held for investigation of murder and bank robbery. 
The last hostage, identified as Bob Barry, left the building at 
8:27 p.m. PDT, about a half hour before the gunman surren­dered. 
Placer County Sheriff's Capt. Max Bennett identified the gun­man as Ken Meller of San Diego. Bennett identified the friend only as an agent for the federal Alcohol, Firearms and 
Tobacco Bureau. Fifty heavily armed, flack-jacketed sheriff's officers and highway patrolmen had cor-
Patty Hearst 



Freedom not anticipated 
doned off the area at the Club Innisfree, a beach and cabana facility. 
Psychiatric social worker Al­len Lovette and sheriff's in­spector Mel McDougal had talked with the gunman before the final hostage was released. Lovette and McDougal left the club, but McDougal returned and then came out with the rifle. 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during exams and vacation periods. The 
Observer 1S published by the students of the univ. of Notre Dame dnd st Mary's College Subscriptions may be purchased for 10 dollars per semester I 18 
dollars per year) from The Ob server, Box a. Notre Dame. In diana, 46556. Second Class postage 
paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

. 
I . 426 N. MICHIGAN I 
L....~.;;x_!.t~~~~~!L2:!.:_32.B!_ j 
not  really  a  radical.  Hearst.  
"She  was  never a  part of <the  
Left l. The mannequin that they created was, but not Patricia  "She is now a son, and she was  leftwing not.  per­ 


Pipes 
Papers 


'Etc. 
newstand and general store 113 w. monroe st. 
STATI:ME:N I UF UWNER~HIP, MANACIEMENT AND CIRCULATION 1.\d u/ ·\lotiUf 12. I '1711 'i<'l"/tu" ,/liN.~ '/ill< /~/ I IOU,•d .'ilOilo'• (',..J, 
---·-----­
1 L TITUUF f'UB~T~:~ti..JI'/!:R 12Qct.Ij,~?'5LI ...Ci 
---· -· · ilxcept liurlD!" "'"CIItiou aad . -­..~-a:;a~~:;~ ~~~diiJ' ·n.:' veeklJ duriag J~r ~iOD :..XS.. period~ l3A.ANNUA~;a::IPTION I'RICI: 
• 4 LOCATION OF KNOWN OFFICE Of PUBLICATiON IS/n•o•/, o·rtv, '""Ill), •,l.alt• '"'d /.If' <"<><fo•J 1""' pm1/..,.,., £t6 c.t: 
4th noor L. Fortune Center -MotH 0aJ. -..,t. Joaepb count7 -In 5JU 
-a ~~~A~~0o; ~-t~~R~g:~~:;E!f~~ j)~~E,SS~FIC~~E PUBLI~HE=~~-r•u_,,.,_,,-----­
6. NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF PUBLISHER, EDITOR, AND MANAGING EDITOR 
P~Btl..~~~:~:t~,·,~~,;~";a~~.,.rt;it)' ot Notre D~• aDd f.tudenta of St. Mary's College-~~5;­
Eo-noR !.'Vtmw wul urJtlr·,.~~~ 
~-Tll-'1"7 Keeney -I.. Fortune !J.tudent Center -Notre llcl•• Dl 46556 Mll."~t~~~~·'·::.:''UI"'l'~ti.o fitudent Center -Hotre D.l•, Df !t6556 
7 OWNER 1/f uu·rwrl Jn u t•rrrrt•rrulr•m. H~ """"' aud uddl't"a. mud br• o/u/o'U n11tl ul•u """"'dlttlt·l~ u,,.,...,.,,dr·r llw """"'' <.md add"·..,·."' .r,.,/,•hnlrlr•,.. uii'UIU,If ur/r.,ldtll/1 I pr·rr·•·"l "' mnn• .,fIn/a/""''""'' <~f•lur·lf /I nul""'""" J, u , . .,..,,,.,.,.,.,, 1/w '""'"'•omdutlrln·uo•uflll• mrlwtdunl •lll•tto•r• muor bo· lfll"~u /( .,,..,,..d br u parlut•rohrp '" uflu•r """"'"'P"'"'''U '"'" u• ,..,,,,. and ...tdn·u. u~ u I'll uo tiro/ u( , • .,,.,, 
NAME 
!itudentG of Un1nra1ty t)f Notre 0... 
aDd -­
5t\adeata of :Jt. Mar7's Collese 
8 KNOWN BONDHOLDERS, MORTGAGEES. AND OTHER SECURITY HOLDERS OWNING OR HOLDING l PERCENT OR MORE OF 
TOTAL AMOUNT OF BONOS, MORTGAGES OR OTHER SECURITIES 1/f lira• ,,., '""''' ""<II! I<" I NAME 
9 FOR OPTIONAL coMPLETION BY PUB USHERS MAILING AT THE REGULAR fiAT£:, .,-, ..trwr /./~.1::1 /hi"~,,,.,,'" 1),.,.,,.1/1 39 U S C 3626 I""'""'' Ill !'"''""'"' ~·"' "Noo ~'"' "' who Wllukl 1111~" Lk>t'll o•ott•!I~•J I otoJlh-'' un<i<·r lurltop/ '' · ,,,, 4::l!i9 orl tho' l•llv 
•,h.tll ""~•• $!1th •·•~tl<•• Jl llw ''""' """'<lt·d undo•r tlu• "'b"•<trur• ""'''" h• lolu~ "''''""L'' '~''''Itt. P""''' S<'"'•" "''~''''''""'<1'"'"''"' l"'"'"•'•on to mall mallur ,It such r~ll!\ 
Ill ~rtu"'""U' Wtllo tho• prov"'""' of ll\1~ ""'"'" I h<'fclry "'<l""'' pUtrnrnum I<• '""'' th<• I·"•L•h• """'' "~"""' '""''""' I o01 1111 r•·o/ut Pd I><>~I,.U• 
;;:;:..;·;,:::·::::.:~.:.~c~.:~~...."'"'"•r:·····"··~~;.fD r ·in-c...~,·e f · 
'--~ f/VI.J 
-10 FOR COMPLETION BV NONPROFIT ORGA ATIONS AUTHORIZED TO MAIL AT SI'ECIAL RATES,,,,.,'""' 11.: u.: / ...lui·"'",., ·''"'"'1//JI('/,.,.r,,,,,., 
The puqww, tunrtoon. alld """~''"''' ""'"s or llus H•v" nut' "''"!l~<l H~n ch·""""' dltl!flll t/fo•ltorlll/•tl pulo/r•lto·r m11M OtA8f!ll<11lUn ""'' "''' n•••n~rr MIIW~ for fetJ~nl [_J durong prucudrorg 0 llf&tlldl!l<l 12 nrunths 
""'"''"'''''""''""""''""""' 
rncoma ••• PllflfUII!i 12mnnth• ,.,Ill u....,.,,,.,...,,_, 


By Right to Life 

Bayh candidacy opposed 
by Eileen O'Grady Staff Reporter 

Indiana Right To Life announced Tuesday it will oppose the presidential candidacy of Senator Birch Bayh. 
"We are greatly saddened that a senator who claims to represent t­he citizens of this state would sanction the killing of more than a million American unborn babies a year," the group said in a prepared 
. statement. Sen. Bayh is expected to an­nounce his candidacy Oct. 21 at a fund-raising dinner for local Democratic candidates at the A.C.C. Members of Indiana Right to Life are organizing a prayer vigil outside the A.C.C. "as a symbolic protest against the presidential candidacy of Senator Birch Bayh," said Mrs. Mary H. Hunt, president of Indiana Hight to Life. "It will mark the joining together of pro­life people throughout the state in protesting Bayh 's anti-life position and presidential aspirations," she said. 
Bayh never disclosed his position on abortion during his 1973 Senate campaign. In a personal address to the Indiana Right to Life, he told them to "have faith in the sincerity of my intentions, while I attempt to deal with this most difficult moral and legislative problem." 
On Sept. 13, 1975, Bayh an­nounced that he is personally opposed to abortion, but he will not impose his views on other people. "I personally feel that we'd be very wrong toimpose one senator's view on abortion on others whose views were different," he said. 
Bayh also urged his sub­committee on Constitutional Amendments not to recommend t­he Human Life amendments to the Senate Judiciary Committee. 
Hunt, commenting on his st­
atement, said: "This kind of 
hypocrisy, added to his utter 
disregard of the human lives being 
lost every day by abortion, makes 
him a completely and totally 
unacceptable candidate for the 
presidency, or any ptiblic office, 
for that matter." 
Therese Bush. a spokesman for 
Notre Dame Hight to Life, said she 
does not know which candidate the 
Careers discussed 
h)' Lonnie Luna 
Starr HeJwrter 

Th<• Career Development Center at St. Mary's is holding a series of workshops for seniors and the g<•ncral student body for the next two weeks, beginning today. 
All seniors and juniors are in­vited to Life-Work Career Plan­ning Work Shop from 6 to 7 p.m. in the Student Affairs Conference Hoom in LcMans Hall. The session will discuss organizing a search career--grad school, job, travel and independence and how to get everything done by Christmas. 
On Thursday, Vet. 16, a work session will be conducted on writin(.( resumes or job proposals from 7::10 to &::lO p.m. in Mad<•leva 's Study Lounge in Room 147. 
All students and faculty are urgt•d to bring pe'ncils and paper. This interview preparatory session is a chance to research, organize and a tinw to practice. Questions asked in an interview will be discussed. 
Also on Thursday, all students inten•sted in law will meet with 
Prof. Del Duca, Dean of lli('kinson Law School, from 11:30 
a.m. to 12:15 p.m. in the Student Affairs Conference Room in LPMans to discuss procedures in applying to law schools. The 
workshop will discuss the struc­turing of law school applications and vocational opportunities in law. Women in law will also be touched upon. 
On l<'riday, Oct. 17, preparatory sessions will be held for all seniors who are interviewing at St. Mary's or Notre Dame with any organization. A sign up sheet will be in the Career Development Cl•nter. All seniors are to complete a college interview form and a career planning form. Interested seniors are encouraged to sign up on a elipboard in the Center for interview preparatory sessions and interviews scheduled. 
On Saturday. Oct. 18, an in­formal discussion with Nan ( 'ookus. of the Jesuit Volunteer Program. will be held at 10 a.m. in the Holy Cross Campus Ministry Office. This discussion will cover areas in living -learning and living in a community. Coffee and doughnuts will be served af­terwards. ' 
group will back, "but I know it will definitely not be Birch Bayh." 
Bush described Bayh's recent actions as " political move for his candidacy. It was two-faced." 
Hight to Life supported him in his senatorial campaign. We worked hard to get him elected. I personally worked for Birch Bayh because he told us while he was running he would supportthe Human Life Amendment. And then he turned around and tabled the 
-whole thin_g" she said. 
. According to Bush, Bayh believes the majority of his con­stituents are not in favor of the Human Life Amendment. For this reason, although he personally is against abortion, he felt it his duty to vote against it. 
"Our feelings are that the majority of people are in favor of the amendment. So we have to be more vocal in letting our politicians know. We have to start an educational campaign so people 
understand  what  aborton  really  
is," she said.  
Bush  confi rmed  that  Notre  

Dame Right to Life will take part in the prayer vigil against Bayh's candidacy. 
at SMC 
Montgomery .. Ward and Co. will begin the interviews when they visit the campus on Tuesday, Oct. 
21. Montgomery .. Ward will be interviewing students in business, marketing and liberal arts majors for retail management trainee positions. 
U.S. Steel will visit the campus Wednesday, Oct. 22. There was no information regarding their recruiting needs. 
On Friday, Oct. 31, the National Hank of Detroit will conduct in­terviews with students with B.A. or B.Ba. degrees. 
, All of the practice sessions are sponsored and co-sponsored by the St. Mary's Career Development CPnter. St. Mary's Campus NMinistry and St. Mary's Law Society. If students have any questions regaramg tne sessions, they should call 4431; regarding t­
he Cookus discussion, call 4696. 


OKTOBERFEST '75 COUNTDOWN: ONE MORE DAY 
Indiana Senator Birch Bayh 


* * * * NOTICE TO OFF-CAMPUS' 
STUDENTS 
-DID YOU END UP WITH LEFT-OVER OFF CAMPUS HOUSING? 
-ARE YOU IN A HIGH CRIME AREA?' -DOES THAT CERTAIN COED DESIRE YOU TO BE NEARER THE CAMPUS? 
IF YOU ANSWERED YES TO ANY OF THE ABOVE QUESTIONS -MOVE TO 
THE NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS 
WE HAVE A FEW VACANCIES THAT WE WILL RENT FOR $75 PER MONTH PER STUDENT (MINIMUM TWO STUDENTS) 
COMPLETELY FURNISHED TWO BEDROOM APARTMENTS 
* * * * NOTRE DAME AVENUE 
APARTMENTS 

MITTWOCK­OKTOBER 15 
4:30­6:15  GERMAN DINNER WITH AUTHENTIC GERMAN BAND  
6:30­ HALL DECORATING CONTEST  
8:00  - 

DONNERSTAG ­


OKTOBER 16 
10:30 -ARTS-CRAFTS 
5:00 SHOW (LEMANS) 
2:30 -GAMES­EVENTS­

4:30 
FUN 


Every 2 0 5 e co n d5 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 




Frightening Truth 
------------Joe Corpora 
. In rec~nt weeks I have begun to realize the attitude of our country ts changt~g. From a pro-abortion attitude, we have moved to a pro­death attitude. Yes, even death is now made to look beautiful and at times more rewarding than life. 
In an earlier column I said that if women knew the facts about abortion, that they would not have one. I am forced to take back that statement. Many women do know the facts of abortion and continue to deny their offspring a birthday. Doctors know that abortion stops a heartbeat, but nevertheless continue to perform them. 
When abortion first became legal just over two years ago, the pro-abortionists succeeded in convincing many people that abor­tion was just the removal of fetal tissue and that there was no baby involved. Science has continually shown, however, that the unborn is a human life and not a blob of protoplasm. And now partly through the efforts of committed pro-lifers many people know that abortion takes a human life. This fact can no longer be hidden. The life-lifters rarely tell people now that the unborn is not a human life. 
But what is even more frightening is that women, doctors, men believe that abortion takes a human life and yet they continue to have them, perform them, or encourage women to have them. 
Senator Birch Bayh m-Ind), a man who has been elevated to the high office of U.S. Senator, who is known as 'The Honorable' led the fight against all human life amendments in the Se~ate Judiciary Committee hearings on a human life amendment. His subcommittee voted down all possible amendments which would have protected all human life from the moment of conception •til natural death. 
Bayh also told reporters according to the UPI story that he believes 'we're talking about human life,' but that he is 'unwilling to impose their view (pro-lifers) and mine on other people who



(P.O. Box Q ) 
differ.' Saying the issue of abortion is 'the most intimate area of personal rights' and that women 'have a right to make this most intimate decision without government intervention,' he reiterated 

an active part of the working to make du Lac a place of in­'I personally feel we'd be very wrong to impose one senator's view world. Conversely, any person on tellectual growth and a fine in­on abortion on others whose views were different.'
Faculty 

the downgrade early in life should stitution of higher learning. 
The Senator is unwilling to impose his view on other people who not be required to give what he or Whatever else you may say about differ. He and others who feel like him should stop to ask them­she can no longer provide. this place, you can't say that it selves why they are then imposing their views on unborn children. 


retirement 

I do not feel we need be told any isn't academic. You just can't say longer what needs to be done that it isn't one of the best Senator Bayh claims that the government should not interfere in concerning our elderly population. universities in this country. I think
()par Editor: the area of abortion. Our government upheld the right of the un­
I do think most people need to be Fr. Burtchaell is working to born to live from 1776-1973. Now he says that the government should shown how to get involved. This safeguard this reputation, and the not interfere. It is the governments's responsibility to defend theRegarding the Faculty Senate's 
would require not recom­only way to do it is to hold high right of every person to be born.
recommendation to the Administ­mendations, but actual programs standards for the faculty that they 
ration on retirement policy <Ob­Last year Dr. Bernard Nathanson, a founder of the National
established and run by these ad­do hire. and to weed out those that server, Oct. 8 1975), I have a few Association for Repeal of Abortion Laws and one time director of ministrative bodies; with reports are incapable of offeringthings which I feel need to be said. 
the nation's largest abortion chamber, reached the point where he informing the public how they may something to the University. In

If allowing over-65 faculty to was 'deeply troubled by my own increasing certainty that I had in
participate. · my opinion, I would much rathercontinue to teach inhibits younger fact presided over 60,000 deaths' as director for the Center forIn this respect, I would like to seethisuniversity move slowly and educators from entering the "tight Reproductive and Sexual Health.
commend the Lewis-Cavanaugh build a faculty that includes mostly job market", then the approved project <ObsPrn>r, Oct. 8). That women of high calibre. You say There is no doubt, the doctor said, that 'a living entity exists inpassage <opportunities for part group of forty-<>r-so volunteers has that "without adequate female the uterus.. .In the near future, human life signs will be identified time teaching to those over 65) done more to help the elderly in faculty representation. Notre within moments of the implantation in the uterus.' Despite hismust also hinder the young faculty one night that the Special Commit­Dame men might fail to realize free admission that abortion takes human life, Dr. Nathanson said · merely to a lesser degree. 
tee on the Retired has ac­that women are just as capable as that he 'absolutely continues to perform abortions.' And to top itBut the issue of retirement goes a complished since last spring. men in the career-working world." off, he admits, the permissive abortion climate in the United States bit deeper. Mandatory retirement I say to you that if Notre Dame runs counter to the country's willingness to protect human life.
by age is in fact a statement by the Hie Haley hires women and other minority Said the doctor, 'There is an increasing repugnance against theAdministration of the lack of in­faculty indiscriminately, as you termination of life in this country--capital punishment has been
terest in the retired faculty 
want them to do, Notre Dame men suspended. Abortion appears to be in conflict with this trend.'
members, as was expressed by 57 will only have more reason to Perhaps in 20 years, the doctor said, the country may experience
percent of the participating 
believe that women art>n't as 'the same revulsion and horror' over abortion that "we had against

Hiring v5.
members in the survey. 
capable as men. the Vietnam war.' The examples are quite numerous. I haveBy retiring those individuals not chosen these two examples to show that quite definitely we havewilling to and in no need of <Name withhPid by request> moved from a pro-abortion mentality to a pro-death mentality. 
retiring, the university may be quality? 
bringing upon itself increased Ifdeattr can be made to seem better than life; if people can know resentment. bitterness; leading to ()par Editor: 
that the unborn is living human being and yet continually take its increased uninvolvement and 
life, then BE CAREFUL. It won't be long before it will be better for lack of communication between Concerning your editorial on 
All letters to the editor should 

elderly people to be dead than to be alive. The time will not be far the university and its retired affirmative action, I can only say, 
be sent to The Observer, Edit­
away when death will be better for the physically and mentally 
handicapped. It is indeed a frightening truth. 
orial Editor, Post Office Box Q 
or brought to the office of The 

expressed in the survey. great disappointment in the members -another complaint ~·ou may be forced to "express 
Think about this tonight when you go to bed. Think about the unborn children who will never be able to pray to Our Lady at the 
Observer located on the top 
floor of the La Fortune Student 

personal, individual thing; much express great disappointment in 
Hetirement is an extremely University", but I am forced to 
Grotto, who will never run around the lakes, who will never see the like choice of careers, maHiage, the insights of the Obsprver. 
Center.. 

leaves change color in the Fall. and children. Any individual, no I think Fr. Burtchaell is taking 
All letters are subject to 

And all because someone judged death to better than life for matter what age, still engaged in into account the values of this 
editing for length and taste, and 

them, or because someone didn't want to impose his-her morality intellectual growth, should remain University--the number one being 
should be concise as possible. 
on Aomeone else, or because of some other foolish reason. 
by Garry Trudeau 

DOONESBURY 

the observer 

-----=-­

Night Editor: Marti Hogan 
YG5,SIR.­ANO CIJ(QG~ 
Assistant Night Editor: Chris 
I7H(){}(jHT BeFOI?E A 
Smith 
YOUMifJHT I..A/Ql-&55 
Layout Staff: Debbie Dahrling,
GO SOFT MINOI<ITY?! 
Martha Fanning, TRS, Jim St­
ON VS. \ H&'t_C'MON! 
evens Day Editor: Marianne Schulte Copy Readers: Ken Bradford, 
Fred Herbst Editorials: Terry Keeney 
Sports: Bill Brink Fred Herbst 
Typists: Joan Martel, Neil Viii, 
Mel Celeste, Mary Setlock 
Compugraphic: Hank Van Dyke 
Night Controller: Bob Steinmetz 
Ad Layout: Pat Russell 






-----~, 

: TRADING CO. #

Primaries lor SMC lrosh 
* First Annual * : Ski Night :

officers to be held today 
: Thurs. Oct. 16 # 

h)' Tt•n•sa Kt>rlev are Terry Touhey, Natalie Ross, Staff Ht>J>ortt>r Lori Shannf)n and Ann Regan. Election Commissioner Cathy Primary elections for St. Carrigan said she is very pleased 
• f with the support the elections have
1

Marys n•shman c ass officers n•ceived. She noted that a meet-t­will bt• today in the LeMans lobby he-candidates forum was a new 
from 10 a.m. to fi p.m.Five tickets have entered the wrinkle in St. Mary's elections proceudre.
primary and the top two vote-The freshman forum was last 
gt'ltPrs will meet Friday in the run­
off Pleetion. Thursday and was sponsored by Mary Lou Bilek, vice president for Hunning on the l'lumbtieket are student affairs. Carrigan said the 
.Jtorri Plumb, Karen Peeler, Lynn nweting was well-attended and ' Hob<>rts and Pat Dahl. On the sueh meetings will be used in all <'armll slate are Paula Canoll, future elections. Donna Shettko, Ellen Kolb and Carrigan said campaigning has
I 
, Tina l>ick. been unusually vigorous and 
Hunning on the Spangler ticket several tickets have violated an• Dt>bbie Spangler, Susan Ur-campaigi; instructions, especially sitti. Barb Borkowski and Tersita the rules designating where Valdivia. On the Thomas ticket posters may be placed. arc Milaire Tomas, Mary Dietrich, She said there will be no penalties lll'len Gallagher and Maria assessed during the primary but Garvey. the rules will be strictly enforced 
Comprising the Touhey ticket in the run-off election. 
~ 
..............•................••••.........., 
:REMEMBER THE FOOD YOU USED : : TO GET AT FRANKIE'S??? : 
: THAT'S THE SAME FOOD : : YOU GET HERE.• : : (Dorothy, the cuisine artist with : : 19 years of gourmet cooking : : at Frankie's is now at Vale~ie's :i cooking the same delicious food) ! 
: ITALlAN SPECIALTIES : : ~ SIIAGHETTI : 
• MOSTACIOLLI 10% discount : t LASAGNA with N.D. t.D. : 
• RAVIOLI : : PASTA FAGIOLI <Italian bean soup) : 
• (Dinners Inc. Italian bread & salad) • 
: OPEN BREAKFAST SERVED: : 5 am to 9 pm ANYTIME •
. :
! VALERIE'S RESTAURANT : 
: 801 S. MICHIGAN. SO. BEND : : (NEXT TO GILBERTS) 289 -0681 :
................................•.•..•.......~ 
only ', mile Southeast of 
campus· : FREE Movie!i : 
(across from Kentucky * FREE Hot Wax * 
Fried Chicken and the 
Linebacker! FOR : FREE Pine Tar : 
* FREE 'B ' *
* eer * 
* 
FREE Rossignol: : Skies viaf

* 
drawing* 







r----------------l=~~~~ 

COM THE PAN I . MID PIZZA PARLORI GETIT!! The only I 1I authentic Italian II 
1 Deep Dish Pizza. I 
II I 
I I The pizza the Vv ATCH OUR ADS ALL THIS II world awaited! WEEK FOR AN EVENT THAT I
I YOU WON'T BELIEVE 1 1 (Save our valuable coupons.) I
I 8-pack 16 oz. ' Up or Pepsi, just $1 I I 277-1221 or 277-1222 I 
1 1
for 
J 


As the sun fades... 

--... 
~· 

·~--.:._:~. 
~ 
......-;: 
-

Having already seen the first vestiges of winter, the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's area was surprised the last two days with mild weather. Some members of the community took advantage of this last glimpse for one of the last days of sailing left 'til spring. 
(Photos by Paul Clevenger) 
I I 
Wednesday, October 15, 1975 the observer 5 I 
l In Kentucky I 
Parents rap busing I 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. <AP> ­Anti-busing groups have called on parents opposing court-or­dered school busing in Jeffer­son County to show it by keep­ing their children home today and Friday. 
Boycott leaders couldn't pre­diet whether today's effort would be as effective as an ear­lier school boycott that cut at­tendance in half, but a spokes­man for Concerned Parents, Inc., said Tuesday, "we cer­tainly hope it will." 
Earlier Tuesday, police broke up the first large clash between white and black students at a school since the desegregation program in Jefferson County began Sept. 4. No serious in­juries were reported in the fight, which involved 20 or more students outside Iroquois High. 
A number of peaceful anti-busing protests were held Tues­day night, with no disruptions reported. 
Leaders of Concerned Par­ents, Parents for Freedom, Inc., and other anti-busing groups asked members and oth­er parents to back the boycott starting today. 
Lowell Hughes, president of 
Parents for Freed~m, went ~ur-**************** 
ther Tuesday night, urgmg * abou~ 100 persons at a prot~st * THE : meetmg to support a more m-: OUTPOST * 
tense boycott aimed at closing 
l 
down the schools by Nov. 1. 
I 
Sue Connor, president of Con­cerned Parents, called Sunday 
l 
for a boycott today and Friday. 
l 
A Concerned Parents spokes-
I 
man said Tuesday that many 
I 
indicated support, but that she 
l 
had "no way of knowing how 
I 
many" would take part. 
l 
A boycott Wednesday through 
l
f<'riday, Oct. 1-3, reduced at-
l
tendance in the city-county 
I
school system by more than 
I
half on the first day, school of-
I
ficials said. Attendance gradu­
l 
ally increased the next two 
I
days, and approached normal 
l
levels the following Monday. The school system has about 
l
120,000 pupils, about 20 per cent 
I
of them black. Some 22,600­
I
half of them black-are being 
j
bused under the court-ordered 
I
desegregation program that be-
I 
gan this term. 
I
The boycott was called for to-
I
day and Friday because Thurs-
l
day is a holiday for all but ele­
l
mentary school students, and they will be dismissed early, at 

l
I p.m. The day off was sched­uled several weeks ago to give teachers a chance to catch up on extra paperwork they face under the desegregation plan. 
Wednesday, October 15, 1975
the observer 

Girls work for 'bare' necessities 
BOSTON < AP l -Out of work continue stripping to save mon-ental culture, said she needed She says many women find "Nudity in general is more and down on their luck, college­ey for graduate school. money and asked for an audi-they like stripping more than accepted now than it once 
educated women here are rid­ing out the recession atop bar counters as night club strip­pers. 
"This happens to be a really relevant form of social work," says Pamela, 22, a 1975 Boston University graduate with a bachelor's degree in psy­chology. "It gives you an un­derstanding of people in an un­usual social context." 
Pamela needed cash two months ago to pay off her col­lege loan. She answered a newspaper ad for go-go girls, got the job and now wants to 

Four months ago, Elaine, 26, stopped searching for a job where she could use her psy­chology degree from Indiana University. Tired of working qS a waitress or sales clerk, she walked into the Two O'Clock Lounge, asked for a job and got it. 
She works seven days a week and does not want to quit. 
"The pay is excellent and you meet people ranging from bank presidents to Harvard profes­sors," she saya. "I've gained a lot of sophistication." 
Pauline, 20, a student of Ori­

. . d' t
S•B•CampaignS examine t Tues and Wed 
Oct. 14 & 15 : 

(continued from page I) 
program a "gimmick and a folly created to play on the fears of voters." Both Nemeth and Kronewitter saw expansion and further development of the police department as a s, lution to the high crime rate. 
Nemeth has refused to attend any future forums with his opponents, claiming he has already attained recognition with the public and the others have not. 
''I'm not going to give them name-recognition and free publicity. 'They can get that on their own time, not mine," he sad. 
Kronewitter criticized Nemeth 
not names. He saw his mdependent 

candidacy as an advantage. "I WASHINGTON <APl -Even would get the deadwood out of city with maximum exports, in-government," he explained, "and eluding sales to Russia, the na­an independent could easily tion 's wheat reserve is ex­pected to increase by this time
Wa 11ace finishes next year, according to Agricui­
first part of his campaign tour 
LONDON <APl -Alabama Gov. George C. Wallace, wind­ing up the first leg of a Eu­
ropean tour, said Tuesday the trip could be termed the unoffi­cial start of a campaign for the 
presidency. 
Speaking to newsmen before his departure for Belgium, Wal­lace said "I don't need to strain" about when to announce his candidacy. Asked if his Lon­don visit was the start of his presidential campaign, the gov-Prnor replied: "You can say that." 
Other politicians "are taking the same viewpoints I've had for a long time, and I've en­joyed watching that," he said. 
When it was suggested he might want to drop out in favor of another candidate with the same anti-big government pol­icies. Wallace replied: "Maybe they'd want to drop out in favor of me." 
Wallace paid a half-hour courtesy call on Conservative leader Margaret Thatcher, "a 
lovely person," following up a Monday visit with Labor Prime 
Minister Harold Wilson. He de­clined to comment on the politi­cal difference between them and said he had expressed to both the importance he places on U.S. relations witlh Western Europe. 
Asked to compare his foreign policy stance with President Ford's, Wallace said: "I don't know that we have any big dif­ferences," but he indicated that Henry Kissinger would not be secretary of state under a Wal­lace administration. 
He refrained from criticizing Kissinger but said "it is cus­tomary for a new president to bring in new cabinet mem­bers." 

dispose of the many party parasites who hold jobs today." 
Nemeth said the elimination of the city Public Safety Director post an internal improvement for city government 
Slafkosky said South Bend government is nothing more than a large business. "The most efficient and effective way to run a government is to treat it ·like a business where the city officials are the borard of directors and the residents of South Bend are the stockholders," Slafkosky said. 
ture Department figures. Based on Oct. 1 crop produc­tion estimates of a record 2.14 'lion bushels, officials say
"'at the carry-over of wheat 
next June 30 -the start of the 
1976 harvest -will be between 
422 million and 572 million 
bushels. 
That would compared with 319 million bushels left over last June 30 and the 28-year-low of 247 million bushels on hand at mid-1974. 
The department said in an 
analysis issued late Tuesday 
that exports are expected to 
range between 1.15 and 1.35 bil­
lion bushels during 1975-76. 
That estimate was projected 
for· exports in earlier analyses, 
including prospective sales to 
Russia. 
The report said domestic use may run between 686 million bushels and 736 million bushels, also the same as indicated ear-Iier. 

In all, including exports and domestic use, about 1.89 billion to 2.04 billion bushels may be utilized out of this year's crop. That was estimated as of Oct. 1 .~t_almo~ 2.14 ll!i!lion bushels. 
lion at the Two O'Clock. "It's a good job," she says. "It's something you can always fall back on." 
Debra Beckerman, publicist for the Combat Zone, Boston's adult entertainment district, says some 15 of 40 strippers have college educations. They earn between $25? an~ $1,000 per _week, averagmg SIX days or mghts of work. 
"It started in July when col­leges got out," M1ss Bee er­
. k
·man says. "The women have presen S educations, but they can't get I f jobs. I thought it would change & • in the fall, but it hasn't." ' ' 

t ''STAGECOACH'' t 

A oompO<i.On of oampaign I 8 and 1 0 pm Admission $1.00 I 
expenses surfaced during last E A d 
night's debate showing a large L na u . _t 
difference in spending among the l --'T=r=:--­


----=r:­

candidates. Nemeth reported spending $30,000 in the primary alone and expected costs of this mayoral campaign to run another $35,000. 
Slafkosky  noted  that  he  had  
received  only  $15,500  in  GOP  
contributions  from  his  primary  

campaign to the present time and Kronewitter's campaign expenses have totalled $70.62. 

u.s. wheat reserve 
' 

"The 1975 food, feed grain & and soybean crops were still ' headed for record or near & record highs as of Oct. 1, sub-' stantially improving the supply f situation for 1975-76 over last a 
year," the department said. ' Officials said the corn supply t by next Sept. 30 -the end of the current crop year -is ex-ft
pected to be between 568 mil­lion and 668 million bushels. Earlier the department figured f it would be somewhat less. 
A slightly larger soybean har-t vest, now estimated at more 

leave a reserve of between 325 million and 425 million bushels by the time the 1976 crop is ready. That is up slightly from earlier indications. 
Soybean exports were put at between 425 million and 475 million bushels, the same as in­dicated earlier. 
The cotton crop, estimated at 
9.1 million bales, is expected to include between 3.5 million and 
4.0 million bales on the export market. Domestic use may con­sume 3.5 million to 4.0 million bales, meaning a carryover next fall of 4.1 million to 5.1 million bales, including left­overs from previous crops, the report showed. Earlier the car­ryover was indicated at around 
. 5.8 million bales. 
they thought they would. "It changes their income from pov­erty city to the point where they have > ·.;1e ~ash in their back pocko?.ts, ' she says. 
Club owners, according to Miss Beckerman, used to pick performers by rifling through piles of publicity photos. Now, young women with art, music and general liberal arts train­ing walk in off the street.



r--------------,
CINEMA 7 6 t ___ 
was," says Pamela. "Stripping is becoming more acceptable. Times are changing. You can be more honest with people." 
Nevertheless, the three strip­pers interviewed declined to give their last names or home towns. 
Elaine, Pamela and Pauline 
all  said  they  wanted  to  keep  
their  jobs  a  secret  from  their  
mothers.  

All Seats $2 (STD-FAC $1.50)

~ND 
Season Ticket Still Available ·Four Plays $7.50 ($5.50 Std-Fac)

SMC 
. .. :•. 
I • 

Arthur of the treatmentKopit's theatr~c~~!!e~~on 
I

of our native Americans. 
Oct.10, 11, 16, 17, 18at8:00P.M. 
Stepan Center (Notre Dame)
for viewing the mayoral race as a 
popularity co~test 
and said ideas expected to l·ncreaser----x -----'
are needed to 1mpro~e _South Bend, & ER'S~r .& 
----------~------' 
I J.JL.l1

HAIR STYLING f 
--f 
-AWARD WINNING STYLISTS 
& 

-UNIQUE ATMOSPHERE ' 
-ROFFLER STYING STYLING & f
UCTS 
pK 0 D t 
ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER & 
{LINCOLNWAY WEST) & ' IN MISRAWAKA ' 
f

Phone . 255 -6500 
APPOINTMENTS p.bEFE-RRE-D f 


than 1.47 billion bushels, would r--------------------------,. 

Tom McMahon General Agent 

• Manny Avila Agent 
Karen Wentland Agent 
Diane Long Agent 
'Tearafter year~I semester after semester, the CollegeMaster from Fidelit\' Union Life has lx:.en the most accepted most popular plan on campuses all overAmerica. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelity Union CollegeMaster field Associate 
myour area: 
1 005 E. LaSalle South Bend, Ind. 
Phone 287·2327 
.~:t 
1;--t;lfl . .-0 
·4;.~
~ 
G)llc~cMastcr
'­




• 

Wedne!i>day, October 15, 1975 the observer 
7 
.. 

Language proves barrier 

Vietnam refugees candidates for welfare 
. CALW tAP> -"We left Camp Pendleton, Calif., reloca-Vietnam dreaming of a new lion center. life. now we are hungry," says 
The plan to train them forone of 90 refugees who were jobs ran amok because it wasbrought here to train for jobs designed for people who spokebut now find themselves candi­l':nglish, and it turned out mostdates for the welfare rolls. 
of the refugees do not. Now, a 
The refugees are mostly for­$40,000 grant for their support na•r South Vietnamese military is running out. officers who arrived in Oakland "Wt' can't send them back to on St>pl. 17 after leaving the Camp Pendleton." said John 
Democratic board approves light plan 
WASHINGTON tAP> -The llt•mocratic National Com­mittee approved a plan today dt'sigrwd to reduce the number of potentially divisive floor lights at next year's presiden­tial nominating convention. 
By a substantial majority, the :!Iii-member group ap­proved an executive committee recommendation proposing that 111 inority reports be kept off the convent ion floor unless they have the support of 25 per cent of the !50-members of platform, rules and credentials com­mittees. In the past, 10 per cent was required. 
Minority reports reflect dis­
senting  views  from  the  posi­ 
tions  adopted by  the  three  con­ 
\'t'nlion  committees  and  sub­ 

Ill itI ed to the full convention for its approval. In 1972, minority rPports on platform and creden­tial issues led to heated battles on the convention floor. 
In adopting the new rule, the national committee rejected four proposed changes. Three would have set the percentage for minority reports at 10, 15 and 20 pPr cent. while a fourth would have specified that 25 per cent of those present rather than of the full committees was n•quired. 
National Chairman Robert S. Strauss said that the rules per­mit "the fullest possible debate and discussion" in convention committees while providing that only major controversies would be aired before the full convention and the nationwide tl'levision audience. "It's a question of priority," he said. 
lkspite a general air of un­ity, there were some rumblings outside the meeting room. Most of the committee's black mem­bers. claiming they had not bt'en consulted on selection of convention officers, sought as­surance from Strauss they would have proper representa­tion on convention committees. 
The proposed officers include two blacks, Hep. Barbara Jor­dan. D-Tex., as one of two key­noters, and Major Thomas 
Bradley  of  Los  Angeles  as  one  
of  four  co-chairpersons.  
Strauss  opened  today 's  ses­ 

sion by calling on President Ford· to fire his top economic advisers and charging that "the same old Nixon crowd is mind­ing the store" while Ford spends his time worrying about a possible election challenge from Honald Reagan. 
Ford talks in Conn. 
HARTFORD, Conn. <APl ­President Ford returned to the political arena Tuesday night and threatened to use the "veto 100 times" if the Democratic Congress passes a 1976 tax cut without setting a ceiling on federal spending. 
"'E1e veto has been described as a .1egative' act, but I've used it 39 times and saved the American taxpayers $6 billion," he said. "I will use it 100 times, if necessary, to prevent ex­cessive and inflationary spending increases." 
In a speech to a republican fund-raising dinner, the President warned, "If the Congress sends me legislation that exceeds the spending limitation and threatens your tax cut, I will not hesitate to use the constitutional authority available to me and veto that legislation. 
The president said his spending and tax cut proposals will lighten the public's tax load. 
"But if we want this kind of new direction in our tax policies, we must have a new direction in our spending policies as well," the President said. 
"Tonight, I say to the 'Can't­Do' Congress: It can be done. Why not do it?" 
"Let me emphasize, however, I will work with the Congress to ensure that those who deserve help will continue to receive that help-the elderly, the i>oor, the veterans who have borne this nation's arms. 
"Nor will I permit slashes in our military budget that would jeopardize our national security, 
the President said. 
Ford returned to the political hustings Tuesday night despite Democratic criticism of his frequent travels, and recieved a warm welcome on his arrival in Connecticut. 
Ford's armored 
auto sustains 
broadside hit 
HAHTFORD, Conn. <APJ ­
President Ford's armored 
limousine was hit broadside by 
a car at a downtown in­
tersection Tuesday night, but a 
Secret Service spokesman said 
the President apparently was 
not hurt. 
"To the best of my 
knowledge, he was not hurt," t­
he spokesman said. 
Te impact of the crash in­
dicated Ford might just have 
been shaken up. The 
President's car kept on going. 
Whalen, a San Francisco law­yer helping handle the grant from the Tolstoy Foundation of Nl'w York. "Once they're <the refugees l out, the government won't take them back. So we're asking Alameda County welfare to put them on the rolls." 
One of the refugees, Dang Phung, had hoped to get a job as a security guard. "We can't go back to Vietnam because of the Communist government," he said. "The American people have been so nice we thought W(''d make good together. But right now we've been hungry for the fifth time" since coming to Oakland. 
Whalen said the refugee training program here was sup­posed to involve 60 bachelors "fluent in English, ready for training." Instead, he added, some of the "bachelors" turned up with families and children, creating room and board prob­lems. 
The training was to prepare them for employment as secur­ity guards under the guidance of Gordon Jacobson of the Ur­ban Security Services of San Francisco. 
Jacobson said he was assured the refugees could handle Eng­lish. but found that only one in three spoke the language. 
"There is just no way we can get them jobs without that," he said. 
Whalen said only $2,000 re­mained of the foundation funds obtained in three grants in Sep­tember and October. Most of the money has gone for food and administration, he said. 
One refugee family did not share the despair of most refu­gees. The family was "adopted" by students at Serra lligh School in San Mateo, across San J.<'rancisco Bay from Oakland. Pham Hong, his wife, Lee, and their 1-year-old son were greeted by cheering stu­dents at San Francisco Inter­national Airport when they ar­
rived  Monday  from  Los  Ange­ 
les.  
The  idea  for  the  adoption  
project  came  from  the  kev.  Al­ 

bert Vucinovich. a faculty nwmber who ·was stationed at ramp Pendleton as a Navy chaplain last summer. 
Father Vucinovich said 400 of the 700 students pledged $1 a month each to the family and many volunteered to help them learn English. 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Need ride to Chicago Fri., Oct. 17, Call Jim, 3338. 
Need ride to St. Louis, Fri., Oct. 17. Call 4-4772. 
Wanted 2 GA tickets tor U.S.C. ­Ask tor Ron-9-5 only. Call Collect 312-482-8820. 
Need ride to N.Y.C. Oct. 18th weekend Call Mike 8382 Can leave 
Thurs. Oct. 16th. 
HELP!! I NEED 8 USC FOOT­BALL TICKETS. STUDFNT OR GENERAL ADMISSION WILL PAY $$. CALL NOW!! 289-9174. 
Help! Need 2 or 3 GA tix to Georgia Tech or Navy. Call Jim 1188 
Need 3 USC tix. Call Dan 1219. 
HELP A MOTHER SEE THE N.D.-NAVY GAME. WILL PAY TOP $ FOR 2 -3 G.A. TICKETS. CALL 287-6607, 4-7 p.m. anytime after 11 p.m. 
Will trade student USC + $$ for 2 GA Navy tix. Chuck 1380. 
HELP! Need ride to Lexington Ky. area October 17. Will Share Ex­pt>nst>s Call Hugh, 8765. 
Nt>t>d ride to Columbus Ohio -Oct. 17th. Will shart> t>xpt>nst>s Ann 5176. 
Nt>t>d 5 USC tickt>ts. Will trade l'XCt'llt>nt Jt>thro Tulll tlckt>tS plus mont>y. Call Bill, 8311. 
Crying tor 2 Navy Tickets 6896 
Net>d 2 G.A. USC tlx badly. Call Ellen 3468. 
Nt>t>d ·rldt> to Champaign, 1111. 
•Oct. 17th. Shart>l' t>xpenst>s. Call Jim 3593 or 3610. 
Dt>spt>rately need 4 GA or 2 GA and 2 student tix for Navy. Will pay wt>ll. Call Ailt>en 1341. 
Net>d two USC Tickt>ts for our sistt>rs. (student or GA) Call Coops or Pat 1654. 
Nt>t>d 3 Need 3 USC tickets. Call Mike aftt>r 6 p.m. 288-0088. 
I'm looking for four good seats yo thl' Beach Boys concert. Call Mike after 6 p.m. 288-0088. 
Dt>sperately need ride to Dayton, Ohio. Weekt>nd of Oct. 17. l::isa 4634. 
Desperatt>ly need 1 USC ticket. Will pay wt>ll. Call Mark 1474. 
Net>d 2 Beach Boys tix. Call John 1800. 
Needed: 2 GA tix for Ga. Tech. game. Call Lisa. 8089. 
Nt>ed tour GA tix tor Georgia Tech game. CAll 4-5740. 
Need help of engint>ering student or prof. in devt>lopmt>nt of simplt> invention. Call Mario Riviera, 7735 or 36, leave mt>ssage. 
oNt>t>dt>d: Two G.A. Southt>rn Cal til<. Please call John at 3467. 
Net>d 5 GA Navy tix Call 5168. 
Nt>t>d 5 or 6 GA USC tlx Call Mary 'Beth 1285. 
Nt>ed 4 G.A. USC tickets. Call 3651. 
Needed GA Southt>rn Cal tix. Call 6896. . 
Help! Desperately need ride to NYC area weekend of Oct. 17. Will share expenses and driving. Call Jen 7248. 
Dt>sperately net>d 2 GA Navy tlx. Mont'y no object. Call John 1462. 
Ht>lp! net>d 2 GA tix for Georgia Tt>ch Tech. Call Mike G. 1624. 
Net>d $$$? I net>d 2 G.A. USC tlx. Call Brian 3260. 
Ft>malt> houst>mate wantt>d. Two blocks from Angt>la. Call after 5 p.m. 289-4303. 
Good mont>y paid for any homt' tickt>ts. Call John -1816. 
Despt>rately need 1 USC and Navy ticket. Call Pam 4-4161. 
Need ride to Streator Ill. on Oct 17th or 24th. Will share expenses. Call Marybeth 4444. 
Need 2 tickets for Georgia Tech . Call 1038. 
Ski instructors wanted. Must ski well, experience not necessary, will train. Kitty Martin 695-5495 or Royal Valley, Buchanan, Mich. 20 miles from Notre Dame. 
Desperately need 6 -10 USC tix. Pay well. Tom 1795. 
LOST & FOUND 

Lost: Pair of glasses, blackcase, light tan frame by Brownson. Tom 1224. 
Lost: 1 purse (brown lt>ather) on Shuttle Bus or in Library Fri. Night. Call MaryAnn 4-4007. 
Found 8-iron on N D golf course. Call Jim, 3338. 
Found: 2 keys on leather key cahln on shuttle. Numbered 511 and 1067. Call 8340 to claim. 
Found: 1 pair gold wire rimmed glasses on Field Hockey field. Broken frames. Initials B.B. Call Maureen 7515. 
Lost: 1 pair gold, wire rimmed glasst>s at St. Mary's between LeMans and the dining hall. Call 234-6352. 
Lost: 1 watch with black band by Rt>flecting Pool Fri. Night. Call Mary, 2145. 
Lost: Blue jacket says "Salesianum Stall' Swimming Champs" Plt>ast> call Kathy 4-5335. 
Found in Lib. Basement: small gold airplanecharmDave. 287-7783. 
Lost: 1 st>t of kt>ys on kt>y ring in front of Galvin. Plt>ase rt>turn to Biology office in Galvin. 
PERSONALS 

Kt>vin, Maybt> you can read this to me tonight. Love, BARB 
Tony, 
For your birthday do wt> get a rt>peat of .Thursday night pt>rformance at Corby's? 
Romt>o Mt>ndiola 
Since today is your birthday, you can fall in love as many times as you want. 
FOR RENT 

3 room suitt> in homl' of young couple for slnglt> studt>nt. Prlvatt> Bath, kitchen prlvileges, Ca II 289­9500 aftt>r 5 P.M. 
-----------------------~ 
Two turnisht>d rooms, apartmt>nl tor ft>malt>. Utilities paid. $65 . 289-8727. 
3 bt>droom houst> nt>ar N.D. Avt>nue. Apartmt>nts completely turnisht>d · suitable for 3, 4, or 5 studt>nts. Call 272-7656 or 272-6358. 
Largt> Room in student's house near Corby's: 618 St. Peter St. $60 a month. All charges included 
FOR SALE 

For Sale: Five Chicago tlx 2 Front Row; Charlie 1779 
Quality Stereo Components at 20 pt>rcent-40 percent savings. RMS Audio 321 S. Main 288-1681 12-7 
pm. 
Sansui modt>l 4000 Stereo Receivt>r. 45 w per channel. Perfect condition. 234-4824 .. Evenings. 
1971 Datsun 240-Z, 35,000 miles, Ansen mags, air conditioning & much more. Excellent condition. Call Chris 283-1788. 
2 Oficago tix tor sale; Jack 3597 NOTICES 
Greyhound Bus to Chicago.. Leave main circle 4:45 Friday--Call Tom 8338 for info befort> midnight T­HURSDAY. 
MEN'S SHIRTS 25 percent off with this ad. Thurs., Fri., Sat. Oct. 16, 17, 18 
Jennifer's 119 W. Colfax 11:00 . 5:30 

Nt>t>d ride to Kalamazoo Oct. 17 Call Mary 4343. 
PROTESTANT AND JEWISH STUDENTS -Wt> havt> listings of religious services In the vicinity. If interested, stop by. Offlet' of Campus Ministry, 103 Lib. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donaho 232-0746. 
Typing Formt>r executive secretary, expt>rienced in senior essays & dissertations. 232-5715. 
wanted Garage in vicinity of Corby's Call Dave 287-6493. 
NO Fencing Team invites NO and SMC students to attend organizational mt>eting Thursday, Oct. 16 at 7 p.m.319 Administration Building. For information, call 8356. 
Typing $.35 a page; Call Dan 272-5549. 
HUSTLE UP FOR 15 GREAT Hl!STLE STEPS -TAUGHT IN LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
EACH & EVERY TUES. & WED. ­3-5. ALSO TUES. EVE. 7:30-9:30. WALK INTO ANY OF THESE CLASSES ALONE-GROUP-OR COUPLE FACULTY STAFF STUDENTS ALWAYS WELCOME S2 EA. CLASS. 
ND-SMC Council for the Retarded. Brookfit>ld zoo trip this Saturday 9:00A.M. to 7:00P.M. Good times to be had, butwe need lots of help. Tom Harbin 287-6673, Kathy McGlynn 288-4315. 
EARN UP TO $1800 a school year or more posting educational llteraturt> on campus in spare time. Send name, address, phone, school and rt>ferences to: Nationwidt' College Marketing Services, Inc., P.O. Box 1384, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106. Call (313) 662-1770. 
8 the 0 bS e r V:._e~r___....:..W:..::e~d....:..ne:.:s~da:=cy~,-...:O::..:c:..:..to::..:b'--e_r_15_,_1_97_5 
.. Burgmeier moves around while he moves ahead 
by Fred Herbst 
If versatility is the mark of a fine athlete Notre Dame can find no one better than Ted Burgmeier. 
After coming to Notre Dame as a quarterback, Burgmeier served as 
Ibackup free safety behind Randy Harrison last season in addition to returning punts and kicks. In an effort to bolster the Irish offense, Burgmeier was moved back to quarterback and was later moved to halfback this past spring. He was finally moved to split end where he has played so far this season. 
Still, Burgmeier is not settled at a single position. As recently as last week, he was working in the defensive backfield preparing for North Carolina. Luckily for the Irish. Burgmeier played offense against the Tar Heels and collaborated with Joe Montana on a 80 yard scoring play with 1:03 remaining to win the game. 
While the uncertainty that ac­companies changing positions bothers many players, Burgmeier has adjusted well. 
"The switching doesn't really bother me. just so I know I'll be playing somewhere," he said. "With the 48 man traveling squad, the team needs guys that can go both ways," said sophomore from East Dubuque, Ill. 
Coming off of his big play 
against North Carolina, Burgmeier believes that he will "probably be staying at receiver." But if the need arises, he will be 
ready to move again. 

Burgmeier has little preference as to the position he plays. "The position I play really doesn't matter to me, I just like to play football,"he said. "But coming out of high school I had been a quar-
Jayvees defeat Michigan 28-0 
by Rich Odioso 
Coach Greg Blache's jayvee football team ran its record to 3-0 last Friday as they routed Michigan 28-0. Te Irish obtained good early field position which Blache called "the key to the game." Although ND didn't score in the early going, it kept constant pressure on the Wolves and assumed early command of the game. 
Guard Elton Moore picked up a rare touchdown to open the scoring late in the first quarter falling on Irish running back Pete Pallas' fumble in the end zone. 
Notre Dame broke the game 
Cincinnati beats Red Sox in lOth 
CINCINNATI <APl -Joe Morgan's bases-loaded single in the bottom of the lOth inning gave the Cincinnati Reds a tense 6-5 victory over the Bos­ton Red Sox in the third game of the World Series Tuesday night. 
The victory gave the Reds a 2-1 edge in the best-of-seven series with Game 41 scheduled for Wednesday night in Roverf­ront Stadium. 
Morgan's hit sailled over the pulled-in Red Sox outfield after the Reds had loaded the bases with none out on a leadoff single by Cesar Geronimo, an error by Boston catcher Carlton Fisk on a controversial bunt in front of the plate, and an in­tentional walk to Pete Rose. 
Red Sox reliever Roger Moret, trying to work his way out of an almost impossible jam, struck out pinch hitter Merv Rettenmund, but then surremdered the winning hit to Morgan. 
terback, and I guess I have a soft spot for it.' 
Even for a player who is used to it, changing positions is a difficult task. After being primarily a defensive back last season, Burgmeier was faced with the transition to offense last spring. 
He quickly learned that being a receiver requires a great deal more than just being able to catch the ball. Instead of covering receivers, he now had to find the open seams of a defense to get open. Instead of hitting receivers and knocking the ball loose, he now had to be hit and hang on to the ball. 
'You have so many things to think about before the ball is even thrown your way," he said. 
"Having played several weeks as a wide receiver made me appreciate what a great receiver has to do to be great." 
Confident of his ability to catch the ball and hoping to utilize his speed. Burgmeier welcomes the challenges of his newest position. 
"I like the challenge of catching the ball and the challenge of trying to beat the deep coverage man. I also like the idea that I'm representing a challenge to someone else and have him worry aboutme,"he said. 
This has been somewhat of a frustrating year for Burgmeier and the Irish. Mistakes have been costly in preventing the Irish from playing up to their potential. Still Burgmeier is optimistic. 
"I'd like to think we can go the rest of the season unbeaten," he said. "Our mistakes have hurt us. It's just a matter pf time until we eliminate them." 
Burgmeier came to Notre Dame from Wahlert High School, where he received all-state honors in track, basketball and football. He was a high school All-American in football. 
"Coach Parseghian was one of the biggest reasons I came here," he said. "But there are more things than just football. I don't think I'll get into pro ball and I know that l'm getting a good education here." 
He i~ a business major. 
With two years remaining, Notre Dame's jack-of-all-trades promises to be an integral part of the Irish team, wherever he plays. At a time when an emphasis is placed on specialization, ver­satility is sometimes a forgotten trait. 
So the next time you pick up a program. don't be surprised where you find Ted Burgmeier listed. He's not surprised anymore. 
*Observer 


Sports 
open in the second quarter with two quick toudchdowns. Two good runs by Tom Parise set up Joe Rst­ic's two-yard touchdown pass to Stege Dover. the freshman from the wilds of Kemmerer, Wyoming. 
Seconds later NO's Tom Flynn intercepted a Wolverine pass and sprinted 42 yards down the sideline for a 21-0 Notre Dame lead. 
Kerry Moriarity added the final Irish score in the third quarter with a one-yard run. "lwas really pleased to see Kerry score," said Coach Blache, "I don't know anyone with more heart." 
Three players who ve seen ac­tion with the varsity made strong bids to regain that status. Parise, the hard-running senior fullback, hammered out 95 yards in 18 carries. Kicker Dave Reeve, out to 

·prove he could handle kickoffs, had 
only one of five returned.  Kevin  
Doherty  made  a  brilliant  diving  
catch for an 18-yard gain.  

The jayvee conclude their home season ths Sunday afternoon on the Cartier Field Astro-Turf at 
I: 30. Admission is free. 

Women's 1-H continues 
by Eileen O'Grady 
Women's lnterhall football completed the second week . of their season last week with two scheduled games. This year four of the five women's halls are competing in the tournament. Breen Phillips has forfeited all their games. 
Last Tuesday, Lyons beat Lewis 6-0 in a predominantly defensive 
' 

Fencing meeting ouchdown came in lhe first halr. 
d h
T'L .nurs ay nig t 
The 1975-76 Notre Dame Fencing team cordially invites any fresh­men or upperclassmen to par­ticipate in the fencing program. Anyone interested should attend a meeting to be held Thursday, October 16th in room 319 of the Administra~ion Building. 
B-ball tryouts 
There will be varsity basketball tryouts on Wednesday, October 15th at 4 p.m. Bring all practice 
gear. 
game. The only score of the game came at the beginning of the second half. Terry Welsh received 
the Lewis kick-off and with good blocking from Captain Sharon Lopez, ran 80 yards along the sideline for a touchdown. Lewis prevented Lyons from converting the point. Susie Augustus aided the Lyons defense by intercepting two Lewis passes, stopping their only major drives. 
Last Thursday • undef~ated Walsh beat Farley 13-0. The first t-
Halfback Becky Thornton caught a pass from quarterback, Anne Eisele and ran for a 55 yard touch­down. Eisele again passed to tight end Pat Burke for the one point conversion, making the score 7-0. 
With 13 seconds remaining in the game Eisele passed to split end Marie McCarthy, who ran 60 yards for another touchdown and the final play of the game. 
.Walsh is the defending champion of Women's Inter hall football, holding the title for the past three years. 
The standings of Women's In­terhall football, as of Oct. 9 are: Walsh 3-0, Lyons 2-1, Lewis 2-1, Farley 1-3. 
Ted Burgmeier is one of the most versatile athletes in the nation. 



Club Sports Summary 
The Notre Dame Rugby 'A' team was defeated by Bowling Green 
11-7 last Saturday. Notre Dame wa_s led by John Froman, who scored a try (4 point­s), an~ Chetz:-vahch,who scored a field goal (3 points). The team was Without e1ght regulars who were taking law school admission 
tests. ~D ca~e back _in the second half to tie the game at seven betore falling behmd for the final time. Tony Mendiola had a chance to tie the game, but his long run was stopped short late in the contest. The Notre Dame'B' and 'C' teams both battled to 4-4 ties with th­eir Bowling Green counterparts. The team travels to Ohio University Saturday for their next game. .'he next home game for the team will be on Friday Oct 24 against Michigan State. ' · ' 

r*************** 
The Notre Dame Soccer Club split two decisions over the 
weekend, making their record 4-7 for the season. 
On Friday, the Irish fell behind quickly in dropping a 2-1 decision 
to Kalamazoo. Kalamazoo scored two quick goals to open the game 
and the Irish never caught up. Kevin Buckley scored the lone goal 
for the losers. 
However, Sunday night's comeback against Purdue-Ft. Wayne 
proved more successful. Trailing 2-0 at halftime, Notre Dame 
scored 3.se~ond ~a if goals to defeat Purdue 3-2. The three goals, 
scored w1thm 8 mmutes of each other, were tallied by Bill Hagerty, 
Roman Klos, and Kueku Lazst, with Laast notching the game­
winner. 
****************~ 
The Notre Dame Sailing Team attended the University of Cin­
cinnatti 's Fall Regatta this past weekend. The competition was 
ver~ good, with Ohio 'Wesleyan, Wooster, and Ohio State in at­
tendence. The final results were Wooster first, Bowling Green 
second, and Notre Dame was seventh. Liz Flood paced the Notre 
Dame effort by winning "B" Division. 
This Wednesday, the Sailing Club will be hosting an open house 
for anyone intersted in learning more about the club at 6:00p.m. at 
the Boathouse. 
**************** 

The Women's Field Hockey team dropped a doubleheader last Saturday, losing to both St. Louis University and Marion College. In the first game, Notre Dame lost 4-2 to St. Louis mainly because 
of injuries. Center Becky Banasiak scored the first Notre Dame.)goal. Right Wing Mary Anne Dooley assisted the goal with a flat pass to the center of the striking circle. Basasiak tipped it in. Dooley had to fight for the second goal. Taking advantage of a boot off the goalie's pads, she pushed the ball in. 
Attacking center half Mary White and sweeper Donna Losurdo were injured late in the second half leaving a gap in the offensive line. Notre Dame lost the second game 3-1 to Mrion. 
The team.has only two away games and one home !lame left. 



Irish 15th in polls 
AP 
I Oh10 St (421 '-().0 2 Oklahoma tl:) 5-fl-0. 3 S Cal (I) :>-fi.O 4 '.;l'bfH'kd :, (HI 5 Tna' ,\K \I ). "'I 6 -\IHbJrrta 4-!·A 
; \1:chl,l:a'l :\ ~~! X Tt'J<.d>~ l·U 
9 PPr;r1 S: .) Pl 10 \tu...··;<tun ·'i-\ ;i II .\,.,toe.l '-' Il-1>'1 
f:_l 1l,,,·.ra,~•· +1·11 IJ \r· ;~,'1-• ..J-fH1 
11 ~ l(orJd,l 4 I i) .. .\ 
I> Sol!'• llartw 4-1~1 ltl Ti•nn' ~ ....-•. J 1,1 
17 \ll('nll!~n 'I J.~.fl '' I 1·1 \ ''-I-I IU \larvtand 4-1 I·. ~"P. ,\r~. :n.~l'-4 l·U 
UPI
1.0116 

I Ohio St. ~0 (34). . ............412 
2. 
Oklahoma :HI (5) . . . . .. .. .. ..372 

3. 
Southern Cal. :HI (2) ... 299 

4. 
Nebraska :HI. . . .2!l6 


S. Texas A&M :HI (I) ...2M 6. Alabama 4-1 .1411 7. Michigan 3-0-2 .. 132 8 Penn St. ~I .. ..116 I. Texas 4-1 ..... 113 
\0. Missouri 4-1. 62 II. Colorado 4-1 . 29 
12. 
Florida 4-1 . . . 22 

13. 
Arizona St. :HI .. 20 

14. 
Anzona ~. . . . . . . . 17 · IS. Notre Dame 4-1. 12 


16. tennessee 3-1 . . . .. . . .. . .. 5
::o 
17. Pittsburgh H 4 
IR San Diego St. fHl 314 lt. Miami (Ohio) 4-1 2 


