OD The Inside 
Arabian Oil 
•.•page 2 
J F K Investigation 
page 3 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 83 Tuesday, February 18, 1975 

Tuition may increase" hundreds" 
Inflation cited as major cause 
bJ Gt'orge Eckes Staff Rt'porter 

Acknowledging that an inflation which has plagued the American economy since 1966 has raised prices and lowered purchasing power in all parts of the economy, llniversity President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh has speculated that :tuition may have to rise "several hundred dollars" next year. 
Speaking at an informal gathering at Zahm Hall Saturday night, Hesburgh did not specify the amount of the projected increase. but cited that other private schools. including Harvard and Stanford, may face tuition increases of $500 next year. 
Inflation has already caused the increase in tuition fees of $200 for this academic year. In a letter to un­dergraduates last year, Hesburgh explained that the increase of $166 in tuition and $34 in room and board for the current year was due to "the veritable explosion in costs which has had an impact on colleges and universities everywhere."
lncn·ases in student tuition can directly be traced in part to the ever-rising prices of fuel and maintenance. Father Jerome Wilson, Vice-President for Business Affairs. indicates the drastic state of inflation which the l lniversity faces. 
"'For the same amount of fuel we bought in Sep­tember. 1973, we must pay an additional $1,200,000 as of .July 1975. That could average out to a $150-160 increase in student charges alone. There is also a list of miscellaneous costs that are now becoming quite numerous." Wilson said. 
Wilson also commented on the large endowment left by Ignatius A. O'Shaughnessy, estimated to be in the an•a of 2 million dollars. "The problem with the O'Shaughnessy contribution is that it will be a long timl' before it will be availbable to us. It is extremely valuable stock that we are dealing with, but it is stock that is hard to sell readily." 
Wilson also had general comments dealing with the problems Notre Dame has to come to grips with in the immediate future. "All schools are in the same boat :l<'ross the country." he said. "I've heard where I 'r .nceton is going to increase their tuition and room 
and board in the area of $620. ''The only solutions available are to adjust to rising costs and possible cut-backs in the budget where it would be feasible," Wilson stated. "However the problem then exists if you can find something to cut. Naturally. no one wants to be left out." A factor directly effecting Notre Dame is that tuition costs are growing wider and wider between public and private universities. In the same Observer Insight article of February 6, 1975, Prof. Paul Rathburn, board member of the national American Association of 
llniversity Professors tAAUPl attributed this gap to an overall drop in enrollment, particularly minorities. Hath burn said if we can succeed in enrolling a decent 
percentage of eligible minorities, including blacks and particularly women, the gap between public and private schools could close. 
In response to the possible tuition increase, the Obst'I"H'r contacted other Midwest colleges and universities to assess their financial situations in the 
coming year. Among the schools contacted all projected increases in tuition. while final decisions regarding the actual t'osts of some undergraduate attendance would not be made until early in the spring. 1':0 official statements were released by Nor­thwestern University but the Office of Student Billings and Accounts did estimate a $300 increase stemming from the nation's inflationary problems. Tuition at the Evanston campus for the first quarter of 1974 was $1.160, with room and board rates (depending on room ::;ize and condition) averaged to $400. With North­western operating on a tri-semester schedule, total l'osts for the year run to $4,680. Chuck Daugherty, Director of Student Finances, stated an increase is in the offing. "Our tuition has been increasing substantially the past few years, but with the economic situation the way it is now, I can't see an increase of anything less than $300. Of course, that figure is a gross estimate but the Board of Trustees will release an exact number in late March or l'arly April and I would be surprized if it would be less 
than that." 
Plans for undergraduate increases were not finalized 
at Loyola of Chicago but Jim Geenen, Assistant 
~u.rsar at the University felt an increase was an­ticipated. "We are in the midst of a cvcle where tuition has been increasing yearly by $100 here and I see no 
reason to doubt that it will not increase bv atlt>astthat 
amount again for the 1975-1976 school year. A final 
oecision will be released by the Board of Regents in 
1\larch." 
Tuition at the Lake Shore campus stands now at 
$2090 a year, while room and board averages to $1460. 
Two schools reported official increases to take effect 
in the fall of 1975. The University of Chicago has stated 
that $210 increase in tuition will be assessed starting 
With the fall semester. Yearly tuition casts had been 
$3000 and September figures will rise to $3210 for each 
student. Room and board rates will remain stable at 
a,J average of $1600, according to the Vice-President of 
Students, Dean O'Connell. 
The other increase officially reported will be at Marquette. J. Birren, Student Accounts Manager stated tuition and room and board for the 1974-1975 school year totalled $3490. That figure will be raised $200 to $3690 for the 1975-76 school year. 
Birren gave numerous factors for the increase. "Certainly the economic troubles of inflation have added to the costs. Beside this common malady, food services and dormitory keep-up have risen astronomically. The problem of faculty and ad­ministration salaries keeping pace with the cost of living and inflation also have contributed to the ad­dition of tuition charges," Birren said. 
Notre Dame's tuition base for the 1974-75 year consisted of $1391 in tuition fees per semester, an average of $580 for room and board (depending on hall l and other miscellaneous fees totalling $54 dollars, commg to about $3995 for the academic year. 
Saint Mary's College have not released official figures concerning tuition increases <whicn now average $3780) pending a meeting of the Board of Regents which convenes this Saturday, February 22. 

1975,-76 calendar released 
by Ken Bradford Staff Rt'porter 

Notre Dame and St. Mary's released yesterday a joint 1975-76 academic calendar which features a September 3 start. 
The two schools also announced that the ten-year-old student coexchange program will be continued for the 1975-76 school year. About 1580 credit hours are being taken at Notre Dame by SMC students and about 2600 credit hours are being taken at St. Mary's by ND students. 
According to the calendar plan, orientation for new students will be held during the Labor Day weekend and registration will follow on September 2. The only holiday during the fall semester begins at 12:30 p.m. November 26 and ends November 30. 
Final exams will be taken December 15-20. There are 71 scheduled class days in the fall semester. 
Orientation for new students for 

the spring semester will take place 
January 12 znd classes begin 
January 14. A nine-day mid­
semester break in mid-March and 
a four-day Easter holiday in April 
are the scheduled spring breaks. 
Final exams in the spring will be 

taken May 6-12. There are 73 
scheduled class days in the spring 
semester. 
Commencement ceremonies will 

be held Saturday, May 15 at St. 
Mary's and Sunday, May 16 at 
Notre Dame. 
Leo Corbaci, Notre Dame dean 

of administration, formulated the 
calendar plan. The post-Labor Day 
start was accepted by the 
Academic Council February 11. 
Official tlniversity of Notrt' Dame Acadt'mic Calendar For 1975-76 
Fall Semt'ster 1975 
Aug. :!0-31-Sept. 1 Sat thru Mon Orientation and Counseling for new stuornts. Sept. 2 Tuesday Registration for all students. 
Sept. 3 Wednesday Classes begin at 8:00a.m. Sept. 7 Sunday Formal opening of the school year with Con­celebrated Mass. (Subject to change.) 
Sept. 11 Thursday Latest date for all class changes. Oct. 9 Thursday Midsemester Report of Deficient Students. Nov. 13-20 Th thru Th Advance Registration for Spring Semester 1976. Nov. 26-30 Wed. thru Sun. Thanksgiving Holiday begins at 12:30 
p.m. on Wednesday, November 26. Dec.1 Monday Classesresumeat8:00am. Dee. 12 Friday Last Class Day. Dec. 13-14 SatthruSun Study Days <noexaminations). Dec. 15-20 Mon thru Sat Final Examinations. 
Spring St'mester 1976 
Jan. 12 Monday Orientation for new students. Jan 13 Tuesday Registration Day. Jan. 14 Wednesday Classes begin at 8:00a.m. Jan. 22 Thursday Latest date for all class changes. 
Feb. 9-13 Mon thru Fri Enrollment reservations for Fall Semester 
1976-77. Mar. 13-21 Sat. thru Sun Midsemester Holiday begins after last 
dass on Friday March 12. Mar. 22 Monday Classes resume at 8:00a.m. Apr. 7-14 Wed. thru Wed Advance Registration for the Fall Semester 1976-77 and for the Summer Session 1976. Apr. 16-19 Fri thru Mon. Easter Holiday begins at 4:00p.m. Thursday. April 15. Apr. 20 Tuesday Classesresumeat8:00a.m. 
May 4 Tuesday Last Class Day May 5 Wednesday Study Day (no examinations). May 6-12 Th thru Wed Final Examinations (no Sunday
examinations). May 15-16 Sat thru Sun Commencement Weekend. 

(Photo by Harry Bush) 

Wake of Watergate' opened by Diainond 
by Valerie Zurblis ·staff Reporter 

The separation of powers of the American constitution was generally explained by Dr. Martin Diamond last night as "special and relatively modern and could only l'Xist in a diverse country like the llnited States." 
Diamond's speech was the first part of a four-part series of lec­tures on the "Separation of Powers in the Wake of Watergate." The purpose of Diamond's lecture was to present a background history of the present governmental system of checks and balances. 
The gist of Diamond's highly technical presentation was that the system of three branches of government--the legislative, judicial and executive--was unique to the United States because of the diversity of the nation. 
Diamond, a Woodrow Wilson Fellow from Washington, D.C. 
contrasted America's separation of powers wtth a m1xed reg1me of other countnes, as he spoke to a moderate gathering in the library lounge. 
Diamond referred briefly to the Watergate incident by saying, "WP remedied Watergate as quickly as could be reasonably l'xpected." He explained that if the issue had gone to the people as it would have in a government set up like that in Great Britain, the people would have acted too quickly without the slow process of the facts unfolding. He estimated that 70-80 per cent would havP votPd Nixon back into office. 
Diamond said, "When Congress 
finally acted, the American people 
arrived at the decision that Nixon 
did something wrong and had to 
go." 
''The separation of powers was 
never intended to prevent crime. 
It is the nature of man to commit 
(continued on page 7) 
Tuesday, February 18, 1975
the observer 
warld briefs 
HRlTSSELS UPI -The U.S. dollar again declined in value against European currencies Monday as it went into the ninth week of one of its worst slumps. 
AFrench dealer said the $3.1 billion U.S. trade deficit announced three weeks ago was still having a bad effect on the dollar. A Belgian banker, speaking of the immediate future, said,"I cannot see anything that could happen now to bring the dollar back to its pre-slump levels."· 
S:\l\ Jl'AN, P.R. UPI-A Puerto Rican fisherman who drifted 800 
miles in 25 days in a 16-foot open boat without food and water was 
rescued in good condition Monday by a merchant vessel about 100 
miles east of Nicaragua, the U.S. Coast Guard reported. 
The fisherman, Fundador Velez, 38, and a companion, Tito 
Iglesias. both of Mayaguez, had left the island's west coast Jan. 23 
in their 16-foot outboard. They planned to return to shore that night 
but their motor failed. 
The Coast Guard had no details on how Velez survived, but 
speculated that he probably had lived on raw fish. 
\\ :\SIIIMiTOl\ l'PI -The nation returns to Daylight Saving Time on Sunday. Feb. 23. Clocks should be turned ahead one hour on that date. 
The return to so-called "fast time" comes two months earlier 
than usual because of 1973's emergency year-round daylight saving 
limP act. 
The change becomes official, according to the Department of Transportation. at 2 a.m. on Feb. 23. Clocks should be set ahead to :1 a.m. An hour is lost under the "spring forward, fall back" for­mula. 
an campus t:aday 
12:00 
pm · meeting, chess club, 2-d Iafortune 3:30pm. computer course, "tso for batch users," 113 comp. cen. 4:30pm· lecture, "mechanisms of ster-oid hormone action," by dr. 

g. 
tomkins, galvin aud. 


7 pm · meeting, florida club, 2-d Iafortune 
7, 9 & 11 pm. film, "owl and the pussycat," $1, eng.aud. 
7:15pm. mass, charismatic mass, holy cross hall chapel 
7:30 
pm -lecture, "boo I of exodus: a literary experience," carroll hall 

7:30 
pm dance, faculty lessons with fran demarco, Iafortune ballroom 

7:30 
pm · lecture, "transcendental meditation," 101 Jaw building B pm political conference, "congress," by dr. s. patterson, Jib. aud. 


Congress alters view on gasoline rationing 
Washington l!PI -Congress' view of gasoline rationing has changed from the only way to solve the energy shortage to something only to be done in an emergency. 
There is now. rather close to President Ford's position, which is the nation would have rationing only "over my dead body." Ad­ministration spokesmen later said that means only in an emergency. 
Earlier in this congressional session, a few members of Congress considered coupon rationing of gasoline the only way to solve energy and economic problems quickly, reduce fuel use and cut out some expensive foreign oil. 
''Hationing has sort of petered out." said a staff member whose senator once sponsored a man­datory rationing hill. 
"Nobody is really seriously talking about mandatory rationing any more." said an aide to Rep. Jim Wright, D-Tex., head of a House Democratic task force on rnergy. 
Both Senate and House task forces trying to write a Democratic energy program talk of rationing only in a dire emergency -such as another embargo on Arab oil 1mpons 
The "working paper" from which Senate Democrats are operating says it is "imperative" that there be a standby rationing 
SKI USA's biggest ski mountain: 
JACKSON HOLE, WYO. 
(or call N.D. SKI CLUB­6856, 3738) 
system to cope with "a total import embargo" or similar emergency. 
''The executive would be directed to prepare immediately a system of rationing gasoline ... that could be implemented on notice in thr event of an embargo or other emergency shortage situation," the Senate document said. The House task force, Wright told newsmen, is thinking of rationing only as a standby. There is no emergency in gasoline, and the idea of rationing is unpalatable, 

Saudi Arabia nears takeover of Arabian Alnerican Oil Coznpany 



In the MINI-MALL at TOWN & COUNTRY Shopping Center 
SKIERS: 25% OFF ON All SKI CLOTHING 
DAY PACKS & RUCKSACKS 1 WEEK SPECIAL 
TENNIS & BACKPACKING EQUIP. 
COMING SOON 

By United Press International· 
Saudi Arabia is near agreement in negotiations for a full takeover of the Arabian American Oil Company, a Saudi government spokesman said in an interview published Monday in Riyadh. 
Talks in London last week bet­ween a Saudi delegation and the four American oil companies operating Aramco produced "positive results," clearing up most of the remaining obstacles to the takeover, Abdel Hadi Tahar, chief of the Saudi delegation said. 
"Understanding was -reached on most of the basic points," Tahar told the Saudi newspaper AI Riyadl. He said the two sides will meet again, "to clear up the remaining details." 
Saudi Arabia, the world's largest oil exporter, owns 60 per cent of Aramco and has been negotiating since last year for the remaining 40 per cent owned by Exxon, Souther California, Texaco, and Mobil. 
Oil sources in Beirut said the initial negotiating breakthrough was made late last year, when the four companies submitted a written offer that the Saudis ac­cepted in principle. 
Under it, the sources said, Saudi Arabia would pay the companies a figure roughly corresponding to Aramco's net body. value of about $2 billion. The companies will also be guaranteed the right to buy Saudi Arabian oil at market prices and continue to provide the Saudis with technical expertise for a fee still under negotiation, the sources aid. 
Saudi Arabia produced about 8.5 million barrels of oil per day in 1974, or roughly one third of the oil imported by the United States, Western Europe and Japan last year. Most of it came from Aramco fields. 
Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Sheikh Ahmad Zaki Yamani, in another interview in AI Riyadh, denied that Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger discussed long­term contracts to bring down oil 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame Md St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased lor $9 per semester ($16 per year) from ·The Observer Box' Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
prices during his recent one-day visit to Riyadh. 
"Those reports are not true and their sources ought to be pro­Zionist newspapers," Yamani said. 
In Vienna, an government spokesman said Chancellor Bruno Kreisky plans to invite Arab political leaders to an oil con­ference in the Austrian capital along with leaders of European socialist, but non-Communist, countries. 
Arab oil producers are also holding a meeting March 4-6 in Algiers to discuss strategy on dealing with fluctuating prices. 
In Venezuela, oil workers Sunday proposed use of an oil embargo against industrialized nations that attach members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries. 
In a document handed to President Carlos Andres Perez, leaders of the 23,000 man oil work force said "Venezuela should not produce a single drop of oil for any industrialized country if it vasely attacks a member of OPEC" to impose lower prices or halt nationalization moves . 
Mecha · 
General Meeting & Reception for all prospective bi-lingual tutors 123 Warren 8 pm Friday Feb 21 corner of 31 & Toll Rd. 
WSND PRESENTS THE OWL & THE PUSSYCA -BARBRA STREISAND -GEORGE SEGAL 



TONIGHT 
7I 9I and 11 ENGINEERING AUD. $1.00 


Tuesday, February 18, 1975 the observer 
House to reopen JFK investigation 
Treasury facing financial pinch; 

by Marianne Morgan Staff Reporter 
Texas Congressman Henry Gonzales 
will introduce a bill in Congress on March 1 
which will call for a reopening of the John 
Kennedy assassination investiga_tion. . 
Gonzales is currently workmg w1th 
Rusty Rhodes, Executive Director ?f. the 
Committee to Investigate Poht1cal 
Assassinations. Rhodes has appeared at 
Notre Dame twice in the past year, on 
Feb. 21, 1974 and Oct. 15, 1974. . 
Working with Gonzales, Rhodes _wlll 
exhibit the various documents and shdes 'he has to a subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee which is chaired by 
California Democrat Don Edwards. 
Rhodes told the Observer yesterday that , with persistent lobbying, the bill will move out of the committee to the House floor. 
Rhodes said Gonzales, a member of the Dallas motorcade when JFK was killed, believes the Warren Commission findings were inaccurate and believes the public has a right to know what really happened. 
Before the bill is introduced, Rhodes plans to appear on several news shows to procure support for the measure. He has already received 250,000 signatures on petitions supporting the release of im­portant evidence from the National Ar­chives and expects to obtain more before March 1. 
Rhodes noted that he is relying on student support throughout the nation for the CIP A lobbying effort. The CIP A is a non-profit citizens' group concerned with the political assassinations of the Kennedy brothers and Martin Luther King Jr. 
"A majority of people don't accept the Warren Committee report, as shown by the recent Gallup and Harris polls," Rhodes noted. He added that the main problem in Congress is that though congressmen may believe in the con­spiracy, too many are afraid to go on record and say so. 
Rhodes said he wants to return to Notre Dame to visit all the friends he made during his two previous visits. He added that he will not give any large presen­tations like he gave last fall but will be available for small class discussions for any professor interested in political assassinations. 

WASHINGTON UPI -The United States government, blessed with a quarter trillion dollar budget, is facing one of its periodic cash squeezes. Unless Congress acts quickly to boost the ceiling on the national debt, the Treasury will be hard-pressed to pay its bills which include government payrolls, social security checks and unemployment benefits. 
The problem occurs roughly once a year and this time zero­hour is Tuesday. That's when the ever~xpanding national debt will surpass $495 billion, the "tem­porary" limit set by Congress last year. · Unless Congress agrees to a higher ceiling, the government will have to suspend its many money­raising activities. This would raise havoc with millions of workers, pensioners and companies who depend on checks from Uncle Sam for financial survival. 
The House already has approved a $351 billion ceiling for June 30, when the 1975 fiscal year expires. The Senate has yet to act. The administration wants the ceiling raised to $604 billion which it says would give enough borrowing elbow room to last through June 30, 1976. 
Borrowing is how the govern­ment raises money for its day to day activities. The most common example is the savings bonds but most of the money is raised through sales of short and medium-term securities, known as bills and notes, to corporations and foreign governments. 
The government's borrowing needs are acute now because of the budget deficit put forward by the Ford administration. There are two main causes: individuals and corporations aren't paying as much as expected in taxes because of the recession and the govern­ment is laying out billions of dollars in benefits to the 7.5 million workers currently without jobs. 
The result is an anticipated $35 billion gap between income and 
Cost rundown on Badin transfers 
to Lewis Hall 
Current Badin residents will be 
exempt from the fifty-five dollar 
rent difference between Badin and 
Lewis Halls until the 1976-77 school 
year. 
In an interview yesterday, Sr. John Miriam Jones stated, "Women currently in Badin and moving to Lewis will pay Badin rates just for next year." 
Currently, the room and board rates for the women's dorms per semester are Badin and Walsh, $519; Breen-Phillips, Farley and Lyons, $544. The men living in the Towers are paying $$574.50. The rates for the fall semester of 1975 will reflect an increase for all on­campus residents. 
Room rates are set according to the individual dormitories and are related to the age and facilities included in the dorm. The oldest dorms, such as Badin, con­sequently pay the lowest rates. 

spending in the current 1975 fiscal statutory level of $400 billion. The year. The deficit is expected to 
result was a series of emergency )swell by another $52 billion in fiscal measures, including a temporary
1976. 

halt in the savings bond sales,Similar showdowns have oc­cancellation of the regular weekly •curred in the past and have usually auction of Treasury bills and anbeen resolved at the 11th hour order to commercial banks toamid warnings that the govern­forward federal funds on deposit to ment is facing "bankruptcy." In the Treasury.
December 1973 the deadline ac­These actions, plus a $6 billiontually passed without govern~e'!-t 

working cash balance, gave theapproval and the debt hm1t government a few days breathing But the government has already room but the Senate approved aused up its legal borrowing 
r---------------------------•
new ceiling figure three days later 
authority. Unless Congress gives 1 TOM'S UNIVERSITY STANDARD I
and the crisis passed with minorthe green light by lifting the debt 
inconvenience. I I
ceiling, the government won't be Presumably these and other I 17993 STATE ROAD 23 272-0083 I able to borrow a nickel after this 
money saving measures would be
week. I I
called upon if Congress holds up
reverted to its "permanent" I CONVENIENTLY LOCATED I
the debt ceiling bill this time .. I AT THE CORNER OF I 1 IRONWOOD AND STATE I ~~~~ I I I
I ACROSS FROM THRIF-T-MART I I 10 PERCENT DISCOUNT TO N.D. & S.M. C. STUDENTS I 
1 COMPLETE CAR CARE I 
I I
I SALE! WITH THIS AD I 
I I I DE-ICER 59~ I
I I
I WASHER SOlVENT 69~ I I SNOW BRUSH 50~ I 
I 
I

I LIMIT ONE ITEM PER CUSTOMER I

L-------------------------­
THE NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION 
PROMOTING "WACKY Wlr-ITER WEEKEND," Kathy Smouse, PROUDLY PRESENTS Wild Wabbit and Patti Romano will be selling raffle tickets for a trip to Daytona Beach, Fla, Tuesday night in all NO and SMC dining halls. (Photo by Harry Bush) 
FREEPORT 

NOTRE DANit :> 1uutN r UNION PROUDLY 
In The Bahamas

PRESENTS 
For $249 

8 days I 7 nights March 21 -28
JOE 
Includes





WALSH 
* Round Trip Air Transportation on

IN CONCERT a DC-9 '.eaving from South Bend
WEDNESDAY MARCH 12 
* 
Accom...'dations

* 
In Flight Service



8:00 P.M. 
* U.S. Departure Tax

NOTRE DAME ATHlETIC & Enjoy Swimming, Golf Tennis, or
CONVOCATION CENTER Anything You Wont In the Bahamas
MAIL ORDERS NOW BEING ACCEPTED! 
TI('KET PRICES: $6.00, $5.00, & $4.00 
$50 DEPOSIT WITH SIGN-UP

I"" II \II IIHIII·II~ \1\1\1< 1"111-:1"1\ 1'.\\t\BI.f:<: TO '·••Till (1\\11· .11110: \\.\I.SII SllllW & \1.\IL Til Ill{ .•1:11J' 11!.-1·· \T 1;\TE Ill TI<'Kf:<:T IWFH'J<: :\T TilE 
Sign Up At S.U. Ticket Office

I I. I" I· \I "LilSE STA\ll'f:<:ll. Sf:<:I.F-Alll I HESSE[) I \\I· I I If 'F \\ITII I IHIWH 11'WIC'ATIJ\(; \T\IHEH 1W lll"hFTS \T l·:.\1·11 I'HIO: 11\"EH TilE l'lll"\H:H 
OPEN TO ALL MEMBERS OF

"\1 F~ 1:1-:1;1\ \111\11.\\. FEBill:\HY 24. 
N.D. COMMUNITY

A BAMBOO PRODUCTION 
4 the observer Tuesday, February 18, 1975 


r--------------------~-~---------------------·
i Don't Let p..i.i.......Die Now! i i I
LAST FALL, ALMOST 2,000 NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
I I
REGISTERED TO VOTE. AGE OF MAJORITY LEGISLATION WAS 
I A KEY ISSUE. NOW, THROUGH THE-EFFORTS OF THE NOTRE I 
I I
DAME STUDENT GOVERNMENT AND THE INDIANA STUDENT I I 1 ASSOCIATION, HOUSE BILL 1818 HAS BEEN INTRODUCED. IT I 
II II 
WOULD PROVIDE A NEW DEFINITION FOR THE TERM MINOR­
I A PERSON LESS THAN 18 YRS. OF AGE...NOT 21 ! BUT IT I 
I I
NEEDS YOUR CONTINUED SUPPORT TO MAKE IT A REALITY. I I I I 

!Write Your Representatives Now! I 
II II 
TELL THE MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE PUBLIC POLICY COMMITTEE 
I THAT: I
I II AT 18, A PERSON IN INDIANA CAN VOTE, PAY TAXES,MARRY, I I CHOOSE A PROFESSION, CARRY A FIREARM, ENTER THE CIVIL I I SERVICE, ENTER THE ARMED FORCES, SIGN CONTRACTS, BE I I HELD RESPONSIBLE FOR HIS DEBTS, DRIVE AND OWN AN I I AUTOMOBILE, TAKE OUT AN INSURANCE POLICY, MAKE WILLS, I 
I I
BE JUDGED IN CRIMINAL AND CIVIL COURTS AND SENTENCED I TO THE PENITENTIARY, AND BE TREATED AS AN ADULT IN I 
I I
PENSION AND WELFARE MATTERS 
I BUT NOT DRINK! I 
I I I THAT: I 
II II 
PAST OPPONENTS TO LOWERING THE DRINKING AGE TO 18 1 HAVE ARGUED THAT IT WOULD RESULT IN A DRAMATIC I I INCREASE IN THE NUMBER OF ALCOHOL-RELATED TRAFFIC 
I

I ACCIDENTS INVOLVING 18-20 YEAR OLDS.HOWEVER, ACCIDENT II STATISTICS FROM MICHIGAN {WHERE THE DRINKING AGE HAS I I BEEN 18 SINCE 1972) SHOW THAT OVER THE LAST THREE YEARS I
I I
THE PERCENTAGE OF 18-20 YEAR OLD DRINKING DRIVERSI INVOLVED IN THE TOTAL NUMBER OF ACCIDENTS AVERAGED I I 9.43% AS COMPARED TO 8.72% FOR DRINKING DRIVERS OVER 
I

I 21. I I THE PERCENTAGES OF THE GROUPS ARE ALMOST THE SAME ! I 
=~VI'rtisement




L -------------------------------------------J 
Tuesday, February 18, 1975 the observer 
paid advertisement I
r--------------------------------------------­

!SEND 'EM A MESSAGE!! 
I II IF YOU ARE AN NO STUDENT WHO LIVES IN HOUSE DISTRICT 3, I 1 WHICH IS GARY, HOBART OR GLEN PARK, INDIANA PLEASE 1I WRITE TO YOUR HOME REPRESENTATIVE: I I I
I CHESTER F. DOBIS I I CHAIRMAN, HOUSE PUBLIC POLICY COMMITTEE I I INDIANA HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES I ~ INDIANA STATE HOUSE ~ I INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA 46204 I 
I I IBE SURE YOU MENTION THAT YOU ARE ONE OF HIS CONSTITUENTS.~ I I 
I I I I I ALL STUDENTS SHOULD WRITE TO THE I 1 OTHER COMMITTEE MEMBERS-1 I I 
I NElSON J. BECKER I II CliFFORD D. ARNOlD II I THOMAS D. COLEMAN I II CRAIG B. CAMPBEll II I SAMUEl l. REED I I WilliAM D. ROACH I II DONNABEllE MAHONEY II I RICHARD c. BODINE I I JEWEll G. HARRIS I 
I I
I DONAlD T. NElSON I 
I I
I , I 
1 c/o INDIANA HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 1 I INDIANA STATE HOUSE I I INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA 46204 I 
I I I I I FURTHER DETAILS CAN BE OBTAINED FROM STUDENT I 1 GOV'T. OR YOUR HALL PRESIDENT TONIGHT. I I I I SPONSORED BY THE NO STUDENT GOV'T. AND THE INDIANA STUDENT ASS'N. I 
I !laid advel'tisl."ml."nt 
J 
~-------------------------------------------­
the observer Tuesday, February 18. 1975
6 



Fr. Gartland enjoyshis work 
by Jack C. Silhavy Staff Reporter 

In August 1974, Fr. Frank Gartland became the first male to 
take residence in a women's dorm­
Lvons. 

Gartland is not a rector or 
discipline figure in Lyons. As 
chaplain and counselor, he works 
towards an inner-discipline in 
people. Gartland called his 
position as "one of service." 
In 1974, Fr. William Toohey, 
head of Campus Ministry, offered 
him the chance to become chaplain 
of Lyons. Gartland readily took the 
offer. 

About being the first live-in 
chaplain in a girls hall. he said. 
38-22-35 

"It'skindof a privileged position, I suppose," he said. It also gave him a chance to renew ties with old acquaintances after being away from N.D. for the five years during which he was head of Campus Ministry at another college. Gartlandwas here for twenty-three years previous to that. 
The position started out as an experiment to extend some ser­vices to the girls. Gartland believes that he leaves himself open to any problems that the women have. "There is no conflict between being a priest and being a counselor. It is a priest's job," he noted. 
(;artland stated that Notre Dame 
must get away from the sex 
New York stripper calls it entertainment 
NEW YORK (UP{) -Frances "Kitty" Navidad, the reigning l\liss Nude Cosmopolitan, is a woman who enjoys her work and she can't understand why any women's ligeration groups would want to censure her. 
"You have to be liberated to do what I do." the buxom redhead said as she slipped slowly out of her hot-pink, wrap-around dress at a news conference Monday. 
Newsmen gasped as the 25 year­old titleholder stood wearing only a gold chain with a heart around her waist and recited the vital statistics that qualified her for the title -38-22-35. 
At one point, Miss Natvidad interrupted said to a TV cameraman. "They're always showing the back, but it's what's up front that counts." 
If that reasoning sounds superficial. perhaps it can be substantiated by Miss Natvidad's claim that her "what's up front" is insured for $1.5 million by Lloyd's of London. 
According to Miss Natvidad, she chose her field "for the money and the attention. And I don't feel exploited. If anything, I exploit the men who come to see me," she said. 
''I make $1,500 to $2,000 a week," the two-time winner of the Miss Nude Cosmopolitan contest said, "and that's hard to beat." 
Asked what her act consists of ­singing. dancing or stripping -the perky 105 pound Miss Natvidad chirped, "I call it entertainment. You see. I take a bath on the stage and there are all these bubbles...! do a little interpretive dancing too." 
She was a $425-a-month keypunch operator two years ago she entered the Miss Nude Universe Contest. 

A native of Jurez, Mexico, Miss Natvidad said she learned to enjoy life in the raw by frequenting nudist camps in the Los Angeles area, where she now makes her home. 
"But I like people wearing clothes," she said. "Some people have terrible bodies and they should wear clothes." 
distinctions , as far as some ser­vices go. "All people have the same need for love and ap­preciation. The common denominator <between men and women) is that we're all persons," he said. 
The girls at N.D. are just as open as the guys, he stated. "They come to the point with their problflms." 
One important difference in his living in a women's hall as opposed to a men's hall is that he can't drop in whenever he feels. He said that he thinks girrs have a greater need for privacy. He said that he has to be available but not forward, that it takes a bit more diplomacy . 
"I haven't been overwhelmed with traffic, I'll be the first to admit. I think that I would have liked to have been busier than I've been, liked to have had more impact on hall life, but I can't force myself on people," Gartland said. 
Gartland doesn't know of any plans to extend the program of live-in chaplains in women's dorms. He said that he would like and hope to see more. but doubts that there would be many priests available for this job. 
Gartland stated that he doesn't feel a bit awkward living with the women and that he is happy to know that he can be of some help to someone. 

NOW APPEARING ROYAL AMERICAN SHOWMEN 
AND 
LISTEN 

~Shu/a~



NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS on US. 31 bttween llin. So. B•d-fr• Parkin&-683-4350 


Seniors 
Wondering what to do next year? Contact Fr. Tom Stella Student Activities office for information about Volunteer Programs 

As with most new frontiers, bridging the uncharted energy 
gap provides many challenges. There are energy challenges in nearly every phase of our home appliance business from product design, to material selection, fabricating and assembly, to distribution, and in the ultimate use by the consumer. Whirlpool's engineers accept these energy challenges as a basis for personal and professional growth. 
Since we are on the threshold of this energy frontier, the challenge will be around for years in the future. Young, and progressive people anxious to accept this challenge are urged to investigate opportunities at Whirlpool during National Engineers Week .... C::~ February 16-22. 
Whirlgg9j 

For information on Whirlpool Director Corporate Research 
Corporation contact your WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION 
Notre Dame representative Elisha Gray II Research & Engineering Center
}····
Gale Cutler Benton Harbor, Michigan 49022 

Tuesday, February 18. 1975 the observer 
Laundry proposal·debated 
by Christine A. Herlihy Staff Reporter 

A proposal to put washers and dryers in men's dorms has found little favor with Bro. Kieran Ryan, assistant vice-president of business affairs. 
"I have never seen the student survey that was to have been conducted last semester. If the proposal were submitted to me I know I would turn it down," Ryan noted. "It would mean negating our present operation. We've put three quarters of a million dollars in it so far and we recently renovated it last year." 
The Campus Life Committee of the Student Life Council discovered that of the 639 men surveyed from all the dorms last semester, 58 percent said they would prefer to do their own laundry. 88 percent favored having washers and dryers to supplement the laundry service. 
But in the final analysis, Ryan questioned whether guys really want to do their own laundry quipping, "I think the parents feel safe knowing that their kids' clothes are being washed and pressed." 
Washers and dryers were in­stalled in women's dorms, Ryan continued, "because we felt the girls would want to do their own. 
(continued from page 1) The laundry wouldn't have problems with a T-shirt, but lingerie. . . ? " 
The university laundry service employs nearly 150 women and operateson a payroll totaling a half million dollars. The largest facility of its kind in the area, the laundry serves not only the men's dorms but also the athletic department, infirmary, seminary, Morris Inn, and the laundering of women's sheets. 
The change would involve in­stalling special electric lines and drains, connecting into hot and cold water plumbing, and pur­chasing washers and dryers which currently run between $400 and $500 each. 
"In the face of current economic pressure it would not be wise to add the extra cost of phasing out an existing operation and then in­stalling new equipemnt," Ryan continued. "There is a human element involved here too: Do we want to put a lot of women out of work?" 
The men's laundry fee is in­cluded in their room and board. "By charging this package rate we felt it would be more economical for the students," Ryan said. "If only half of the students ate in the dining hall or used the laundry, the marginal cost would be much be pressed to meet operating costs. 
Other complaints included the rough treatment of clothes: "I'd rather do my own stuff because they shrink my shirts and pants." 
The laundry refuses to wash sweaters and the dorms do not provide drying racks for such handwashables. Many students complained of too much starch in the shirts, "A starched denim shirt looks creepy, if you know what I mean." 
Advocates of change may have some hope of seeing their proposal considered in the long run. As Ryan summarized, "If this proposal were to be considered for action right now, they would have to go beyond me for I'd turn it down. But if it is suggested for the long range, I might possibly consider it." 
ROYAL VALLEY SKI RESORT 
11 slopes, t-bars & ropes only 30 minutes from south bend in BUCHANAN, MICH. 
n.d. smc get discount on "learn to ski" program-call 616-695-3847 ur li!IS-5862 brochures at 341 farley 
'Wake of Watergate' 
crimPs and nothing can prevent political dimension but wanted a crimP from happening," stated "softening of terms. •· Diamond. He felt Diamond was too am­
Diamond was in agreement, biguous in his choice of words. He however. that the system of thought the separation of powers separation of powers was adequate wasn't related to the concept of a in dealing with the Watergate mixed stab· and accused Diamond affair. Watergate was termed a that the separation of powers "splendid example" of the didn't include an administrative AmPrican system of checks and branch. balances. The next three speeches in the 
Diamond delved into the past to series will focus on Congress by reconstruct in detail the difference Samuel Patterson, Presidency by of the separation of powers and the lkrbert Storing, and Courts by mixed regime. He explained that a David Fl'llman.They will be more mixed regime is an all-embracing contemporary in nature and art of comprehensive justice for a connect the Watergate incident mixed society and that it har­with today's governmental system monizes claims of perfect and or checks and balances. imperfect. The separation of powers concentrates on the liberty the observer of each individual and therefore 
Night Editor : Mike Strickrothlimits politics and government to ... Retiredgeneral and equal law and fair Ass't Night Editor: MaggiePxecution. he said. 
WaltmanAfter Diamond's talk, Professor Layout: Maureen Sajbel, DanWalter Nicgorski and Professor Sanchez, Maureen Flynn, Ginny
A.J. Seitzinger discussed 
Faust
Diamond's paper. Nicgorski Late Night Ads: Tom Whelanquestioned Diamond's statement Copy Reader: Ken Bradfordof what separation of powers was Day Editor: Bob Radziewicztrying to improve democracy Sports: Ernie Torriero, Bill Brinktowanl and why couldn't the Typists: Ann Peeler, Neil Bill, Bobsepar<Jtion of powers work in a Norcross, Karen Hinks, Marthanon-democratic but heterogeneous Fanningsocietv. 
Compugraphics: Chip SpinaSeitzinger agreed with Pictures: AI D'AntonioDiamond's point of conception of 

JUNIORS LAST CHANCE TO SAVE YOURSELF $1 0 

Make your yearbook picture appointment today. 
Call 3557 between 9 and 6 or stop 
•

1n 2C LaFortune 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

I need a ride to Ft. Lauderdale Fla. during the Spring break (help pay for gas and drive too) Please call Mark at 255-5559 
Ride wanted DC area weekend March 1st Fran 5714 
Married couple needed for live-in houseparents tor foster home. Salary. Write P.E.P. Inc. 3012 S. Twyckenham, South Bend 46614 
I need a ride to Indiana University (Bloomington) or Purdue University (W. Lafayette). Will share expenses. Any weekend. Call Michelle 291-1598 · 
Need ride to St. Louis weekend of Feb. 21. Call Joanne at 6997 
Need riders to Cincinna,ti. Leave Thurs. nile Feb. 20, Return Feb. 
23. Call Earl 3153 
Wanted: 3 DePaul Tixs. Call 289­9148 
Wanted: Student to give tennis lessons. Call Debbie 232-6122 
FOR SALE 

For Sale: One black & white 12 inch Motorola Television. Call Ed 1487 
Left hand golf clubs. 3215 for details 
For Sale: Pioneer Turntable PL-51 with AT-125cartridge. Call Ed 1487 
Money? Morrissey Loan will lend up to $150 for 30 days 1 day waiting period. Basement of LaFortune. Daily 11:15 to 12:15 
NOTICES 

Florida Club Meeting tonite at 7 
PM for all Fla. residents. Info. Call 
John 1478 
Over Seas Jobs-Australia, Europe, S. America, Africa. Students all professions and oc­cupations $700 -$3000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sight­seeing. Free information: Tran. sworld Research Co. Dept. F3, 
P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera, Ca. 
S.H.A.R.E. Hotline phone 4311 rm. 15 Holy Cross S.M.C. Completely confidential. 8-12 nightly 
Tune up specialist 2 ba,rrel car· buretor overhaul $24.95 parts in­cluded 232-1796 
Want a break from hard studying read National Lampoon, Rolling Stone, Village Voice, Time, Newsweek and relax. Pandoras Books 602 N. St. Louis Blvd. 'onS. Bend Ave. 
Enter the Mock Stock Market "Old Business Building" or LaFortune 
Disciplinary Action hanging over your head? Call Student Govt. 7668. We may be able to help. 
MEDICAL PRODUCT RESEARCH GROUP is con­ducting investigation of symptoms & problems of sinus sufferers. Any person (student, faculty, or staff) with sinus problems interested in participating in a group discussion call D.C. -1739, Jim -3155, or Myron -8687. (Tentative date for interview, Friday Feb. 21 3:00 
Ruggers: Meeting Wed. Feb. 19 outside club sports office in ACC at 
4:15. Bring money to make your tour deposit equal $160. No ex­ceptions. New Members Welcome. 
Please return unused crutches to infirmiry. Injured students need them! Get your credit! 
Campus Press is now hiring an experienced pressman. lntrested? Contact C.P. at 7047 1-5 Nights call Glen 287-6245 
Whoever lost $10 Feb. 13, caller must identify aprox. Area where bill was found. 
SPRING  BREAK  TRIP  TO  
MONTEGO  BAY,  JAMAICA·  
RESERVATIONS  WILL  BE  

TAKEN UNTIL THIS FRIDAY, FEB. 21. TO SIGN UP OR FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, CALL 272·9895 AFTER 7:00pm 
Wanted: ARCHITECTS who can adapt local material and con­struction methods to design of community buildings. Serve in developing Nations. See Peace Corps Recruiters in the Library Feb. 17-20 
Intensive Language Training in Hausa, Swahili, Tologo, Fijian, Thai, Korean, Spanish or Por­tuguese -FREE! ! See the Peace Corps Recruiters in Library Feb. 17-20 
INNOVATIVE persons to teach adults, inner city dropouts, and bi· lingual children throughout U.S .. Elementary to University levels in all subjects in countries overseas. See Peace Corps VISTA Recruiters in Library Feb. 17·20 BBAs & MBAs: Opportunities advising businesses, cooperatives & credit unions. See Peace Corps­VISTA recruiters in Library Feb. 17-20 
FOR RENT 
Houses ranging from two to seven bedrooms. Completely furnished. Available for May or Sept. 234-9364 
Now renting 2 to 5 bedroom homes. Completely furnished for Sept. Call 234-9364 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: Brown leath_er p~rse. Please return. Rewa~d. ·4543 
Lost: Sterling silver cross, :.;4 ,nch, no chain. Between o:1 parking lot and Keenan. Of great sentimental value. Reward offered. If found, call Pat 3303. 
Lost-Pearl ring in piano room of O'Shag. Reward. If found call 8019 
Lost: Pair of black framed glasses near O'Shag. Call 289-6142 
Accidently switched navy wrap jackets at Crestwood Party Fri. Call Marianne 284-4101 
PERSONALS 
Wanted: One kingdom, will bring own mistress. Call Chuck 3280 
Mort Freen says: SHARE STUEY 
CSD Good luck today with AH.SM. Hope you feel much much better, too. love ya always Beoe 
A belated Valentine for Carol: One for the body --'One for the heart With love from Spock and the jock 
Somebody stole all but one pair of Mike Schnaus's underwear. If you have it, please call him at 3492-the smell's getting pretty bad. 
Ann M.-Your sitting next to me at lunch on Friday was the high point of my life. By the way, nice haircut. -Secret Admirer 
THE OWL & THE PUSSYCAT· PRESENTED BY WSND· TUESDAY, FEB. 18· ENGINEERING AUD.· 7, 9, and 11 pm· $1.00 
Leo. It Hurts 


the observer Tuesday, February 18, 1975
8 

lrif;h streak past. Pumas 
by Erlll(' Tornero ctaen's quick movemen"ts to the Steve Scharrer s bp-m with two 
basket. seconds left, cut the margin to 54­46.
Small college powerhouse St. 
"I tried to force him to theleft, so 
Both teams came out cold in the
.lol•'s of Rensselaer came to South I could slap the ball away," A.D. 
secondhalf. With 8:40 remaining in 
Bend to plead their case for In­said. "But when he moved to his 
the contest and the Irish clinging to
diana Collegiate Conferance right. I couldn't help but foul him." 
a 75-66 advantage, the stage was
'lasketball,and when it was all over Thordsen, who was injured in the 
set for the final Irish blietzkrieg.
tht• verdict was pure and simple; eye in Saturday's game with In­
Freshman "Duck Williams hit for
nolo contendere. 

diana Central, had equal respect 
pight crucial' baskets and Dantley 
With Adrian Dantley leading the for his opponent, saying, "Dantley 
pumped in six points, as Notre 
ease for the prosecution, Notre is one hell of a ball-player. I've Dame ignited to 95-72 lead, with
Dame out-dueled the Pumas 97-81 never had anyone block my shots 
3: 11 left on the clock. The Blue
lwforP an ACC crowd of 10,816. ' like that. He's the quickest player 
Team played the rest of the way
Except for the first few minutes that I have ever had to face." 
and Dave Kuzmicz sent the
whm the score was tied at three The first half was played at a 
partisans home happy by sinking a 
different times, the Irish were in race-horse pace, as the teams 
short jumper, ending the scoring at
l'ommand most of the way. 

traded early baskets. With 12:40 
!17-81.

Tht> l'ontest ft•atured a scoring left in the half and the score 19-16 in 
Digger Phelps was quick to
hattiP lwtwt>en two of the nation's favor of the Irish, Toby Knight 
applaud the victory as a total team
top point getters: Notre Dame's blocked a Thordsen shot and verv 
effort. ··our bench strength really
llantlt>y and St. Joe's Jim Thord­quickly the Irish "spurt time" 
helped us," Digger said. "That's
sPn. For the record, A.D. bested was in full gear. With the Notre 
why we have won nine of our last
Thordsm. :l6 points to 30 while DamP press forcing a plethora of 
ten games." The Irish reserve
out~rPbounding him, 14-11. At 
turnovers on the part of the 
strength was indeed apparent as
timt•s. they playPd head to head Pumas, the Irish reeled off 14 
Knight, Williams and Clay came
and when the smoke cleared they unanswered points, as they opened 
into the game to spark the victory. 
l'affi(' away with nothing but up a 17 point lead, 33-16, with 10:30 
Knight pumped in 16 points and hit 
n•spect and praise for each other. 
left in the period. But stubborn 
the boards for 13 rebounds, while 
Adrian was amazed by Thor-St. Joe's retained their poise, and 
Williams hit for 14 points and Clay added 10. St. Joe's coach John Weinhart
Wo111en cagers W"in: 
was very impressed with the Irish l'ffort. "Notre Dame is the quickest team that we have played 
defeat LeW"is College 
smce I have been at St. Joe's <almost three years)," states
h.Y Cn•gg Bangs wome~ upped their lead 16-9. 
Weinhart. He further added
Le~Is . coach Cathy Shiely, 
Hight now, I think that they ar~
Judy s Sister, for all those in­As any self-respecting coach will 
the second best team in the
terested in family rivalries thentell you, basketball is a team sport eountry."
called timeout. Her tacti~s im­in the fullest sense of the term. 
Phelps felt that the Pumas
mediatelybecame apparent as the
Without a good degree of team­UNDER THEN UP, Adrian Cantley streaks in for two of his 36 points
were a good challenege for the
Fliers came out shooting over· the
work on both the offensive and in NO's 97-81 victory over St. Joe's last night.
Irish. He related "St. Joe's is a
zone. The strategy worked asdefensive stages of the game, any ,·ery good basketball team. They player and he has some very good the NCAA scoring column. 
guard Marge pozen led a barragesquad is going to have trouble. It <'amP in here really fired up and moves." Coach DiBiaso com-His 711 total points markthat gave Lewis a 26-21 halftimewas just this lack of teamwork that played ,a great game." mmted o~ Thords~n saying, "He the nost ever scored by a Notreedge. l'oz.en. who scored a gamehurt the women's basketball team 
Thordsen may have been the 1s ~ typical foreign ball-player DAml' sophomore. A'.D. has~Igh 24 pomts, repeatedly hit longin their first four outings. 
best player to face the Irish all < bemg !rom San truce, , Puerto amassed 1223 points in his career
JUmps that destroyed the
After being beaten by an ex­season long. Phelps and his Hicol. They all know how to shoot and he needs five points to passpreviously t•ffective: Notre Dameperienced Michigan State team, assistant Dick DiBiaso were ,·ery wei.!. Thord~en will be a Dick Hosenthal for tenth place onzone. Another factor that led to thethe hoopsters dropped successive 
quick to make mention of his. >et~~r dnbbler as time goes the all-timP Irish scoring Jist.
Flier comeback was seen in the
home rna tches to Toledo, St. on. Saturday, Notre
presence. "In defensing Thordsen 
foul situation: four out of five N.D. 
Mary's and Ball State. 

we played behind him and IBISII ITEMS: Dantley's 36 Dam<' travels to DePaul for a 3:00starters had picked up three fouls. 
However a welcome turnaround eollapsed on him," Digger noted. . oints gives him a season average p.m. dash with the Blue Demons.
The second half started off with
was seen last Thursday as the He further said, "He's a good uf :l0.9. placing him near the top of The gamP is a sellout at Alumni
Pozen bombing away from where
women defeated Kalamazoo IIall.
she had left off as Lewis pulled toCollege 44-36. The Irish relied on an eight point lead. Earley in­well-rounded scoring and a variety serted guard Betty Banasiak whoof defenses to notch their first 
1-H hoop playoffs continue
seemed to throw Pozen off as shewin. 
harassed the Flier guard all over
The Irish put their brief winning 
the court. Banasiak eventually 
by Fred Herbststreak on the line when they 

fouled out. but she helped keep
travelled to .Joliet, Illinois, this 
Pozen in check the second half.
past Saturday to take on Lewis Interhall basketball continued
The Irish also started to rule the 
College. While their male coun­
boards as Patty Coogan and May play in the double elimination 
.>. 
terparts were taking it to LaSalle 
Beth Mmaranac continually held playoff system Sunday night,Coach Jeanne Earley's troopers Lewis to just one shot. Coogan was without any major upsets.
overcame a five point halftime particulary l'ffective: Besides In Sunday's action, Off-Campusdeficit to beat the Fliers before a 
controlling the defensive boa1 ds III edged Sorin I 39-37, Grace IV 
sparse crowd in the Lewis 
sh~ scored six points and helped slipped past Flanner II 53-52, HolyFieldhouse. 
brmg the ball up against the Lewis Cross II nipped Fisher II 48-47,The Irish broke out to a quick press. Cavanaugh I beat Cavanaugh II 64­lead behind three quick buckets by Without Pozen scoring the 45, Off Campus VII eased by St.
lorward Bard Frey. Guards Judy 
Fliers never offered any thr~at to Ed's I 70-63, Pangborn I defeatedShiely and Mary Clemency then the surging Irish, who pulled away Morissey I 46-37, Off Campus IItook advantage of the turnovers to a constant five to seven point outscored Howard I 46-42, Dillon Ithat the Irish zone was causing by lead throughout the second half rolled over Off-Campus V 73-45,scoring four points t>ach. as the 
eventually winning by five. ' Grace I nailed Zahm I 57-50 and Keenan I topped Stanford I 55-43. Mike Bonifer led Off-Campus III 

Wrestlers finish third in 
to their victory over Sorin I. Off­Campus III fought back from a slight deficit to take a four-point

Maverick Classic tourney 
lead into the last minute of play. by Rich Odioso weren't as lopsided as the However Sorin I refused to yield as The Irish wrestlers had a busy scores indicate with the Irish they closed the gap to two. A last 
weekend in Omaha competing in giving a good account of them-second shot by Sorin I bounced off three dual meets on Friday and selves in most of the matches the iron giving Off-Campus III the then the four-team Maverick against what Coach Fred Pechek win. Classic tournament on Saturday. r-t:e:-rm_e_d_'_'t_w_o_r_ea_I~g.;.oo;;.;d;;..;,t.;.ea;;,;m~s;..'_'___G_r_ac_e_rv_w_a_s_f_or_c_e_d_t""o""g~o:_t;.:o..f~ull 
The results were mixed as the Irish 
f RESHMAN f QcUSPOl NT
went 1-2 in the duals and placed third in the tourney. Against UNO freshman Pat S p 0 n S 0 r e d b y McKillen upset Mike Block who had lost only once in 18 matches. WSN D AM 
In the tournament the next day F h Ad . C I 
KenDike who did not wrestle th~ res man VISOry OUnCi 
night before due to the flu, won the heavyweight title while McKillen p r e 5 e n t 5 Mike Kemp at 167 and Mik~ Padden at 158 placed' second. ARA PARSEGHIAN DIGGER PHELPS 
The Irish, now 13-10.conclude the 
PETE DEMMERLE

dual meet season with matches at MOOSE KRAUSE Akron on Friday and National DAVE BATTON Catholic <'hampion John Carroll on 
saturday. JCU stands 10-2 with call up and talk to them live on the air eight individual NCIT champions 




T0 N I GH T 
on their roster including 340-pound heavyweight JoJo Bertolone. In the action that night the Irish 1QPM _ 1 1 PM 
crushed Georgia Tech 34-9. They then fell to Northern Colorado and 0 n
WSND 64
Nebraska-Omaha by scores of 31-3
and 34-9. The latter two matches ,...___""!"__.._.....;;..;:;..;:~;..;::,::;.._..;::;.;;;:,_______.J 
SUN. FEB. 23rd. 
NOTRE DAME 
Athletic and 

Convocation Center 
1~ Jll'icl' tick1•ts for Notr.-Dame ­St. 1\Jary's students on thes.­l~•·•·fonnanc.-s: Thursday H pm, Saturday 12 noon, Sunday 6 pm. 
court pressure in the second half of their game against Flanner II. 
Out rebounded by the tough Flanner team, Captain Mike O'Connell's team used the press to keep themselves in the lead. With two seconds to play, Flanner scored a lay-up that would have g,i ven them the victory, but the Flanner player was called for traveling. 
Wayne Powers led Holy Cross II to a one-point decision over Fisher 
II. Powers scored 14 points and hauled down 12 rebounds to pace his cl~b. Fisher II had an op­portumty to send the game into 'overtime,as they were awarded a two-shot foul with two seconds left. Unfortunately for Fisher, the first shot fell in while the second at­tempt dropped away. 
Taking full advantage of the charity stnpe, Pangborn I moved on in the playoffs. Captain Mrk Witkowski pointed to the poor play of his team and noted that the game was won at the foul line. Pangborn. led by Tom Monaghan's perfect 11 for 11 effort at the line was 18 for 18 from the line for th~ game. Bill Sahm added 8 points for the winners. 
In the Interhall playoff system, wmnmg teams continue to play in the wmners bracket, a team that is beaten once continues play in the losers bracket while a team that is defeated twice is eliminated. 
This Tuesday, Stanford I faces Zahm I, the winner to advance to the quarterfinals of the North Quad losers bracket. Also, Tuesday, S~rm I meets Morrissey I, the wmner to move on to the quar­terfinals of the South Quad losers bracket. 




