


On The Inside 
SMC fire 
... page s Microbiology major 
... page 3 
serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Vol. IX, No. 80 
Calender dra"Ws 

overall approval 
bJ Mar)' Pat Tarpy Staff Reporter 

The passage of the proposal favoring a post-labor dav start for the 75-76 academic calendar met with fa~orable reactions among most students and faculty. 
The calendar. which will include a week-long Thanksgiving break in place of a mid-semester break, along with tlte late start. was approved following recommendations received from the Faculty Senate, the SLC and the Student Government Academic Commission. 
Fr. Burtchaell. University Provost, ('Xpressed his feelings by saying we mus t consider two things in the acceptance of a calendar. "whether the calendar is set up to provide a good tempo for learning and whether people are prepared to abide by it." 
Burtchaell. who favored an early start with a mid­~emester break was "quite content to let the majority rule" and adopt the new calendar proposal, as it was educationally supportive. 
.\ ('umulatin• Efft•ct 

Professor James Cushing of the Faculty Senate stated in reference to the new calendar, "I am definitely in favor of it!" He added, "It was the effect of the Faculty SPnate. the SLC. the student poll and the Academic Council. cumulative." Cushing felt that there would be no unusual problems connected with the new calendar, which some felt might exist with the removal of the bn•ak in October. 
.Jim Ambrose, Student Government Academic ('om missioner. said "We got the ball rolling. We were a kind of catalyst." This was in regards to a student poll illustrating the prevailing attitudes of the student body in relation to the calendar situation. Ambrose is in fa-vor of the post-Labor Day start and feels that a longer Thanksgiving break would prove much more satisfying. 
Fr. David Schlaver. director of Student Activities, had a slightly different outlook. "I suspect the process will have a good outcome. One thing is that maybe the students will be more tolerant of the administrators and the faculty more tolerant of students. Things mi_ght be a little more flexible." 
"I personally find it a sad and embarassing situation. the way the issue has become so do or die," Sehlaver noted. 
!\t•t·t•ssar.' to ".Just \\'ait" 

Pat 1\lcLaughlin. Student Body President, was in favor of the post-Labor Day start but felt it would be 1wcessary to "just wait and see what problems would arise" and deal with them then. 
Professor James Robinson. a member of the Academic Council. stated. "I voted for the new prin­ciples. They seemed to satisfy parents' objections. !\lost people. faculty and students want the new calt•ndar. The new principles fit together to satisfy the 1weds of everyone involved." 
Hobinson also added that he did not foresee problems concerning the change in breaks. 
Frank J<'lanagan. SLC Chairman and Student Body \'ice-President. found the Academic Council's decision tn•mmdous. Flanagan further stated. "I believe football weekends are a source of letting students rdax. that's why I don't think there is a desperate need for a mid-semester break. 
Surn~· llt•lpful 
"It has been a bit of a problem in the past and will probably continue. but I don't think it will be a serious problem." he stated. Flanagan also wished to add, "The student government survey proved to be helpful because it was run in a professional manner. Facts are facts and they clearly indicated that the student and faculty wanted to start after Labor Day. 
Brian Hegarty, a member of the SLC commented, "I think it's better to have a long Thanksgiving break in consideration for those who can't afford the increased .. amounts of travel." He also felt. "it was good for the SLC because although the calendar is academic, it affects many areas of the students lives even though the SLC took it in a general sense." 
( 'ah••ula•· In 1\1 o Weeks Dean Lt•o Corbaci, Dean of Administration, stated ~·esterday that his office hopes to announce a definite calendar for next fall within the next week or two. With the aid of his office, Corbaci will set up a calendar which is in accord with the scheduling of other University departments and St. Mary's. What needs to be done is to have agents meet, "To make sure the two schools, Notre Dame and St. Mary's, are on the same wavPlengtiJs, then we'll publish the new calendar." remarked Corbaci. According to St. Mary's Academic Affairs Com­missioner. Tess Lehman, St. Mary's will release a statement concerning its calendar today. 

Thursday, February 13, 1975 
-­
THE ND STAFFERS, doing all those liHie jobs, make our lives a lot less complicated. 

Rise with inflation 

Staff salaries above .minimu.m 
b~· Greg Bangs Starr Repo1·te1· 
Tlw t'l'onomic crisis that has plagued the country has had an t•frt>ct on Notre Dame. Although faculty salaries han• gont> up. tht-purchasing power of these salarit•s gom• down. despite a '600 supplement granted last st•nwster by Fr. llesburgh. Other university t'lllllloyt•t•s. however. have not been granted such a honus. 
There is a part of the Notre Dame working force that does not get the publicity that the faculty does. This part is the general working staff. The University employs well over a thousand staff workers in a number of varied positions, such as cooks, line at­tt•ndants. kitchen workers, groundskeepers, janitors, nwchanics. technicians and housekeepers,to name a ft>w. 
:\II of these jobs have one thing in common: they fall under the jurisdicition of the personnel office located 
in Brownson Hall which is where Director of Per­sonnel Joseph F. O'Brien keeps tabs on all workers. O'Brien. of course, does not run the whole operation. The personnel office is broken into several depart­nwnts such as maintenance and food services. Each of these offices reports back to O'Brien, who is in a sense, a eoordinator. 
A study of the financial situation of thesl' worke;·5 is a detailed task. There an• numerous positions and Observer lnsic;~htthe salaries vary according to 
position For instance. a first-year kitcht>n worker who starts at $2.44 an hour, while a first ~ear housekeeper receives an even $2.00 per hour. Since the staff is so vast. the financial standings of two groups were selected to be studied in order to gain a reasonable perspective of their financial situation. The maintenance thousekeepersl and food service arpas wPre picked because they are the staff members most in contact with the Notre Dame community. Salal'ies have Imp1·oved Over the last five years, both of these departments have improved their hourly salaries. Contrary to popular rumor. they have both kept their wages about the minimum limit. "We have always complied with the minimum wage law." said O'Brien, "Our base pay has never been below the legal limit, in fact,our pay scale compares favorably with other major employers in town". he continued. O'Brien explained that his office does several sur­,·evs and studies of the salaries and wage benefits offered by other South Bend area employers. 

An answer to cheating 


Honesty committees sought 
b~· Bob Mader Start' HPportt>r 
The Academic Council unanimously passed a proposal which calls for the establishment of Honesty Commitees. 
At the council's meeting on Tuesday, Fr. J<:rnan McMullin presented a plan designed to regulate the system of handling cases of suspected cheating. 
According to the proposal. if a teacher suspects a student of dishonesty in his academic work, the teacher must present a written report to the Honesty Committee of his department. The comm.ittee "Yill review the report at a hearmg. wh1ch the student and teacher are invited to attend. and make a ruling. In the !'vent the committee decides against the student. that student has the right of appeal to his academic dean. The 
dean may then reverse or uphold the 
earlier decision. If the decision is 
upheld, the report of the decision goes 
into the student's file. 
If the violation is one of a number of 
offenses or a very serious first of­fense. the dean will consider disciplinary action, involving ·penalties up to dismissal from the 
university. 
1\kMullin stated that previously 
there was an honor code which had 
been instituted at the students' 
request. The code was dropped in 
1969. also at the request of the 
students. evidently because they felt it 
was being abused. 
The initiative for the proposal was 
brought on by both student and faculty 
sl:'ntiments that there should be an 
(•stablished system of dealing with 
dishonesty. 
The salaries that the other institutions are compared with is such: Housekeepers <maids) starting work this year receive $2.00 per hour. After a sixty day probationary period this goes up to $2.05 per hour. "Wt>'ve checked our base pay limits for housekeepers with places in town and found ours favorable" Walter .Jaworski. Assistant Director of Maintenance and Buildings mentioned. Jaworski explained that this salary looked even better when one· took into con­sideration the fact that "most of the maids in town work at night while ours work during the day." 
"Our time schedule is attractive for people who would much rather work in the day than the night. "he added. 
A check with several hotels in the downtown area showed that Jaworski's figures were accurate. Of three hotels questioned, $2.00 an hour was the standard rate for their maid service. Two of the three also had rotating shifts which required their employees to work !'Very other week on a night shift. 
Jaworski echoed O'Brien when he mentioned that housekeeper salaries have always tried to keep with the minimum wage law. "We have not kept pace with the co!H of living standard, I admit but who has? Over 
the last five years, our salaries have gone up every year." he explained. 
As a matter of fact, the salaries of housekeepers have improved almost 10 cents every one of the last five budget years. In 1969, the starting salary for a maid was $1.53 an hour. It went up to $1.60 in 1970, 1.70 in 1971. $1.80 in 1972, $1.90 in 1973 and the present $2.05 in 1974. 
The hourly increases for food service jobs have also increased at a steady rate over the las five years. In 1971. 10 to 15 cents was added to a food service worker's salary. depending on the position. Since there are somanypositions in the dining hall, the rate of increase is given instead of the many individual staff salaries. The rate of increase happens to apply to all staff food service workers. 
In 1972, the average increase fell between 10 and 15 cents. In 1973, it fell down to between 10 and 15 cents. In 1974. the rate of increase was fifteen cents across the board. 
(continued on pa1,e 2) 
Formerly astudcntrisked having his grade lowered by an instructor who suspected him of cheating, and he had no right of appeal. 
The new system also offers in­structors an effective recourse against those whom they consider to be chronic cheaters. 
In these respect s the new system will be a benefit for allinvolved. "It's a break for everybody," McMullin stated. 
The departmental Honesty Com­mittees will be composed of both faculty members and students. The number of members on each standing committee will be determined by the individual departments. 
"There's no way to stop cheating," McMuHin commented. "But now there's a regular way of handling all the cases." 


warld briefs 
TANANARIVE, MALAGASY REPUBLIC <UPH-A military junta took over this island nation off the African Coast Wednesday and stormed a military camp seized by rebels who were blamed for the assassination of President Richard Ratsimandrava. 
VATICAN CITY <UPI)-Pope Paul VI ushered in the penitential season of Lent with an Ash Wednesday Mass in St. Peter's basilica Wednesday night but did not go out into the square for a procession in chilly, windy weather. 
<'LI<:VI<:LAND <UPI)-A small pile of fossilized bones unveiled 
Wednesday by Dr. Donald Johanson of the Museum of Natural 
History here may turn out to be the oldest demonstrably human 
remains yet discovered. 
Johanson discovered "Lucy," as the 3-million -year-old partial 
skeleton has come to be known, in Ethiopia last Nov. 25. 
WASHINGTON <UPil-A House-passed bill to rescind President I<'ord's oil import fee won Senate committee approval Wednesday with a Hepublican opponent predicting it would become law over a veto. 
nETIWIT <UPI >-The Ford Motor Co. Wednesday began a direct mail appeal to lure 2.3 million Americans into Ford dealerships by giving them a chance on winning up to $3000 just for having lht•ir used car appraised. 
an campus taday 
4 p.m.--seminar, "'energy x transfer studies using a picosecond dye Iader source (attempts at excited state reman scattering), dr. j.e. butler, rad. lad conf. room. 
7, 9, 11 p.m.--movie, "summer wishes, winter dreams" $1, eng. aud. 
7:00 p.m.-game, nd girls bball team, a.c.c. 
7:30 
p.m.--lecture, preparatory "transcendental meditation", lib. lounge 

7:30 
p.m.--drama, "the river niger", $1 discount students, morris civic 


8 p.m.--lecture, "the catholic university in contemporary culture", 
g. niemeyer, lib. aud. 
8:15 p.m.--concert, "time out for woodwinds," a saprano, wash. hall. 
10 p.m.--L.I.F.E. presentation, alumni hall. 

Creativity Development discussed Tuesday night 
days was enough for the semester. 
A group of students listened to semester due to the student 

the second presentation on the interest in Transcendental Science of Creative Intelligence Meditation <TM>. Each lecture lectures series Tuesday evening in will present a bit of simple and the Library Lounge. clear information on TM and Law student Robert Carsello describe how it can be learned. spoke about the development of Carsello accounted for the new creativity on the individual and the wave in student interest in TM environment. He pointed out that saying that "Notre Dame people the technique that develops are tired of thinking about creative intelligence is what is problems and want to start dealing commonly known as Tran­with solutions. TM is one of the scendental Meditation. best solutions around and people 
Also speaking was Notre Dame find it a valuable tool for in­graduate Tom Egenes whose talk creasing performance, no matter included a color slide presentation. what kind of activity they're 
The lectures on the Science of engaged in." Creative Intelligence <SCI> will be The next presentation in the SCI held frequently during the current series will be on Tuesday, Feb. 18. 
-I
··--------------------------­
I I I The University of Notre Dame Press 1 I I I announces the publication of 1 I I 
I EXERCISES IN I I RELIGIOUS UNDERSTANDING I 
I I I by I 
I I 1I David B. Burrell, C.S.C. 1I 
II II 
and I I
I OCKHAM'S THEORY OF TERMS I ~. Part I of the Summa Logicae I 
II 1I 
translated and introduced by 
ON VALENTINE'S DAY FLOWERS SAY: LOVE 

Stall's pay scales 
comparefavorably 
Like Jaworski; Gary Marmontello, Manager of Employee Relations in Food Services, thinks that the Universitypay scale compares favorably with com­parable food service centers. "Our pay scale is comparable to most, but we also offer our workers free meals, which is a considerable addition. If a worker's shift goes from noon to seven at night, a free dinner 
ORDER NOW 

goes along with it. But if he or she wants to come in a 
FLOWERS ARE AS NEAR AS YOUR little earlier and have lunch, we let them do that too. 
PHONE STARTING AT $10.00­Two free meals added on a salary saves both time and 
SENT ANYWHERE

money at home." Marmontello said. The probationary sixty days also applies to the food service workers. "If a worker starts at $2.00 per 
d~taiatta 1lotal hour .as do our line attendants, they go through a sixty day probation period at the end of which, a nickel is added to the salary to bring them up to $2.!lU an hour. 

iiiiiiiiiiiilllllillilliiiiilllllliil

This applies to all our
workers." Marmo'ltello added. 
Staff workers reactions to their salaries are more varied than those of their superiors. One maid, who wished not to be identified (as did most of the staff workers in­terviewed for this article), related that she "started working here (continued on page 7) 
Senior ball ticket sale is next week 
Due to a general response from seniors and a change in final plans, bids for the Senior Ball, "The Isle of Connemara" will not go on sale until next week. Details of the event are being finalized this week. Beginning next Monday, February 17, bids will go on sale in the dining halls and in La Fortune. A $10 non­refundable deposit will be required to reserve a place. Final plans for the Senior Ball will be announced by Monday. 
ERRATUM 
The story on the Academic Council meeting, which appeared in 'Vednesday's Observer, stated that Professor Timothy O'Meara favored the early start and the Thanksgiving break. O'Meara actually voted for a post-Labor Day start and a long Thanksgiving break, as long as the number of 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuc:tents of the University of Notre Dame Mid St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S9 per semester ($16 per year) from ·The Observer Box· Q, Notre Oame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
465.56. 

Uncle Willie's Fatal Glass of Beer 
daily specials: 

N\on-Thurs 12-6 pm 
25¢
1 frosted mug 

50¢ sandwiches: 
hamburgers 
cheeseburgers 
polish sausage 
kosher dogs 

TUESDAY & 
Pitcher Night SATURDAY pitcher $1.25 
Guys • need girls at your party? 
Girls • want to know where ND parties are? 
Call "Party Line" to tell us about your party, so we can tell others..FREE 
Call: 5420 

SMC Social Commission office 
~. I 
Fri. & Sat. noon-6 pm
Michael J. Loux 

I I 
I I 
hotdogs 10¢ 
II II 
Available at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 

These Specials Every Week 
~ ------------------------~ 

Thursday, February 13, 1975 the observer 
Hoynes Hall may house music department 
having cost estimates made up for 

"There will definitely have to be Staff Reporter some sort of renovation," offeredby John Feeney 
the possible addition of another floor, to be put on top of the newer 

Wilson. "Making sound chambers Hoynes Hall, formerly the wing, behind the old building. and setting up classrooms are two,
Estimates so far have been around 

building housing the Psychology so the question is whether to build Department, will possibly be oc­.now or wait until the future when
half a million dollars." cupied next fall by the Music Because of the unique problems the department may need more Department. offered by the music department, room. It would certainly be more "The music department other changes must also be made. judicious to do the work now when requested the building upon hearing that it was vacant," stated Father Jerome Wilson, Vice President for Business Affairs. "We're happy to consider their request." The building has been unoc­cupied since the beginning of last seme3ter when Haggar Hall became the Psychology Building. The music department is now in· O'Shaughnessy hall under very crowded conditions. "Hoynes is quite better than what they have now, but it's still somewhat too small, according to the head of the music depart­ment," continued Wilson. "We're 
Program starts Fall 1975 

Microbiology ~najor created 
Jt>ff Pecore courses. Advanced undergraduate Zahm, who was a bacteriologist." Starr Reporter seniors will also take courses with The actual beginnings of graduate students. This is being microbiology as a group effort date Dr. Bernard Waldman, Dean of done now by some senior life back to 1930and a student named the College of Science, presented a science students. J.A. Reyniers. Reyniers studied request to the Academic Council "The whole department has been bacteriology as an undergraduate 
Tuesday to establish an un­thinking about offering an un­and then remained at Notre Dame dergraduate program in dergraduate Microbiology as a faculty member after he Microbiology at Notre Dame. This program for a long time," Pollard graduated. He established a request was granted and the said. "In fact, microbiology is an research laboratory, LOBUND, on program will begin in the 1975 Fall old tradition on the Notre Dame the far north portion of the campus Semester. campus dating as far back as Fr. that is still in use today. 

"Such a large percentage of the undergraduate students, about 70 
LOOKING FOR ... percent, are interested in life science that we felt it would be 
HOBBY & CRAFT SUPPLIES? 
good to provide them with another alternative," Dr. Waldman stated. A graduate program in 
-tc ENGINEERING PROJECTS Microbiology already exists at 
-tt ARKIE & ART ASSIGNMENTS
Notre Dame and the same faculty that teaches the present graduate 
*MODEL TRAINS, CARS & PLANES
students will instruct the new undergraduate students. "We're 
we carry

not expanding or spending 1.1on' 
money," Waldman said:'we·n·just 
XACTO, DREMEL, ROCKETS, LIONEL & N GAUGE
placing more of a burden on the 
pre-existing faculty, a burden that 
FULL UNE OF PLASTIC KITS & BAI.SA WOOD
they have readily accepted. We'll 
also use the same facilities that we 
are presently using for the 
HOURS: MWF 9:30-7:30 graduate students." 
T Th S 9:30 -5:30 
Waldman further stated that only twenty undergraduate students would be accepted into the program from each class. The reason for such a small enrollment was given by Dr. Morris Pollard, Dean of the graduate Microbiology Department. "We expect to be 

flooded by applicants for the new :l43 LINCOLNWAY WEST SOUTH BEND course because of the favorable 
(3 BLOCKS WEST OF LASALLE 
PHONE 287-0180

student response to other life HOTEL) 
the building is empty." suggest their views after a meeting in March."
The problem of funding the The structure itself has had arenovation is present. "No gifts rich past since it was first built in 
.have been received," stated 
1890 as the Institute of Technology. 

Wilson. "And if none are received Over the years it has contained the in the future, the university will 'engineering, chemistry, law,have to resort to plant funds for 
architecture, and psychology

which there is a great demand departments. Hoynes hall became .
across the campus." 
its official title in 1919, being 

When asked who will finally named after Colonel William decide, Father Wilson said that Hoynes, who was the first Dean of "the final decision will be made by the Notre Dame Law School and the board of trustees, but the of­remained at that position for 40 ficers of the University will years. 



NICKlE'S 
NOW FEATURING 
POUND CHARCOAL GRILLED HAMBURGERS 
Serving from 11 :30 a.m. daily 
science courses, so we have to limit it somewhat. We don't want a 'Mickey Mouse' course, but one which will challenge and prepare the student for an interesting career." 
Dr. Pollard outlined several of the many careers for which a major in Microbiology would prepare a student. "A degree in Microbiology is valuable in food industries, public health, hospital work university research, petroieum engineering, vaccine manufacturing, a wide variety of careers. It has a very broad ap­plication." 
Pollard said that for the first two vears a Microbiology major will iake basic physics and chemistry courses. In the last two years, the curriculum will consist of highly concentrated microbiology 
FOR THE BEST 
L SAT 
PREPARATION ClASSES NOW FORMING TO BE HELD IN LAYFAYETTE, INDIANA 
ON MAR. 16, 22. APR. 6, 13 liMITED ENROllMENT FOR INFORMATION WRITE OR 

ATTENTION ALL CAMPUS POLITICIANS All Persons Interested In Running for the Offices of SBP or SBVP MUST ATTEND a Meeting on Sunday Feb. 16 at 10:30 P.M. in the Student Government Offices. 
Student Body Elections will be Held on Monday, March 3 
L.S.A.T. PREPARATORY SEMINAR 
7 SOUTH DEARBORN, CHICAGO, ll. 60603 

2300 every haur
THE OBSERVER 
A"' INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Solutions For

Editorial: 283-8661 News: 283-1715 Business: 283-7471 Tom Drape Terry Keeney
Fred Graver 

Editor-in-Chief News EditorEditorial Editor AI Rutherford _Bob Zogas 

The Third World
Bob McManus Managing Editor Business ManagerAdvertising Manager 

Thursday, February 13, 1975 
al sandej

A Responsible Restructure 
Father Hesburgh often mentions that solutions to mankind's 
For the third time in as many academic years, a restructuring of St. Mary's student government is now underway. While the last change involved a minor modification of the then experimental Student Board of Governance , this revision marks a major and important step in the future functioning of student government. 
This change appears to come as an inevitable consequence of the action, or lack of, which St. Mary's students, both within and outside of student government have taken this year. 
With the return to a more traditional student government structure, the president has been given more power and responsibility. Among reasons for this change, Legislative Commissioner Joanne Garrett stated in her proposal, "ll is too idealistic to assume that each elected officer will automatically realize all her duties and responsibilities. It also is too idealistic to assume that every person that runs for office is dedicated to the performance of these duties." Or, as she explained later, with the approval of the proposal, the president will have the power to assure that student represen­tatives and officers are carrying out the jobs to which they were elected. 
While this does guarantee that students in elected positions are taking on the responsiblity of their offices, it also puts a tremendously unfair and, unfortunately, what should be an unnecesary, responsibllity on the president. 
The honor system underlying the original Board of Governance structure has apparently failed. Evidence of this fact can be seen at the semi-weekly Student Assembly meetings, where recently, attendance by representatives has reached an all-time low. Fur­thermore, the removal of one elected post, as proposed,conforms to the trend in student government elections for candidates to run unopposed. 

Granted, there are a number of students dedicated to working in student government. However, the fact that a move such as this proposal would be deemed necessary, reflects the magnitude of the situation. 
Yet without some demonstration of concern on the part of students outside student government, those working within the organization cannot be ex­pected to be motivated. To be effective, student government requires the support and backing of the student body, which it has not received this year. 
Parallel to the responsibilities of elected student representatives and officers, are the responsibilities of their constituency. Each student has the responsiblity to participate in an election by casting a ballot, or to complete a questionaire, or to voice an opinion. Elected student representatives, who are supposed to reflect the views of the majority of the student body, cannot represent a void. 
A dynamic, effective student govern­ment requires responsible members, and responsive students. 
Mary Janca 

The Calendar Decision 
Actually, it could go without mention. 
The Academic Council, comprised of members from different segments of the University community, made a decision to return to a post-Labor Day calendar. There were no heroes or villains this time. Instead there was open and diverse 

h discussion from a community, about their community. A decision was made and that was all. Very often, the Administration is charged with secrecy and one-sided decisions. The lack of communication and input from differing University constituencies is often cited as a fault in the decision-making process. In the case of the Academic Calendar decision, though, these charges need not be leveled. The decision was the result of input from many elements of the University community, and an Academic Council that was open to this input. 
DOONESBURY 

The calendar should be seen as an example for the Administration that input from the University Community does not lead to chaotic babble, but to decisions that are made with increased knowledge and sensitivity to the needs of the University. Tuesday's vote should prove that major decisions about policy do not necessarily have to be made in closed-door committee meetings, without the aid of open discussion among all concerned members. of the University community. 
The Academic Council, on behalf of the Notre Dame community, has done a good job in its handling of the Academic Calendar issue. One can only hope that perhaps other decision-making bodies at Notre Dame will take a good look at what being open and willing to act on com­munity input can make possible. 
Tom Drape 
Fred Graver 

P: No, it is wrong-­
P: Hmm ... 

that's For sure. 
K= What's thatgptto do witlllrn 
~ 
basic problems must be long-term in nature. I think that the seven agencies composing the Notre Dame Third World Relief Fund, Catholic Relief Services, CARE, UNICEF, OXFAM, Church World Services, IFCO-RAINS and Co-Workers of Mother Theresa, meet hasic criteria for long-term solutions in the undeveloped countries. 
J:<'1rst. there must be low administration costs so more aid can reach the needy. The administration costs for these agencies range from0-10 percent of the total contributions. 
Second. the immediate food needs of the 1 2 billion who are per­manently hungry must be met. If an individual receives in­sufficient food, he or she is more susceptible to mental impairment and disease, which adversely affect learning and working eapabilities. 
Third, developmental projects must be expanded in the poor eountries since the comparative advantage exists there. 
The second and third criteria are met by some of these agencies by using food as an incentive to motivate people to develop their own resources. Food is distributed to mothers at health and nutrition centers, children at schools, and men at self help projects. 
These criteria are met by the other agencies by purchasing food for the needy, which stimulates food production through money placed in the economy. 
Fourth, aid must be distributed to whom it was intended, the needy. For some of these agencies, a matching process is established. The poor nation supplies labor and resources in ex­change for trained personnel and needed commodities through shared-cost partnership agreements. This increases aid to the needy as well as established institutions that maintain the func­tioning of self-help programs after the agency leaves. Basically all the agencies conduct the distribution process themselves, thus virtually by-passing the bureaucratic problems of governmental bilateral aid. 
Fifth. the present annual living expenses of under $240 per capita must be improved. Sixth. unemployment and underemployment must be reduced from its present 10-20 percent and 8-18 percent respectively. 
Seventh. rural-urban migration must be decreased from its present annual rate of growth of 4.2 percent since it creates inadequate health, sanitation, and employment conditions. 
I:<:ighth. the population must eventually be decreased fom its present rate of growth of 2.4 percent, since the earth's biosphere can support only around 33 billion people. 
Ninth. small farms must be implemented since they yield con­siderably more per acre than large farms due to the increased intensity of management. 
These agencies meet the fifth through ninth criteria, inclusive, by instituting labor-intensive, rather than capital intensive economic systems. This raises the income of the poor, lowers unemployment and tmderemployment. slows down migration by creating jobs in rural areas. offers motivation for smaller families by supplying security in terms of resources instead of offspring, and provides manpower necessary for small farms. 
Tenth. the cultures of the needy must be considered since people resist change. 
Eleventh. the self-help projects must require less inputs since the poor may be restricted from access to resources for socio-economic or political reasons by the rich. The less technologically advanced solutions of these agencies are more culturally acceptable to the people aided and require less resource inputs. 
Twelfth, long-terms solutions must be Pcological in nature. These agencies are less dependent on non-renewable resources. ''If petroleum were the sole source of energy for agriculture, all known world reserves would be exhausted within a mere twenty­nine years." Also, these agencies minimize soil erosion through soil management and reforestation. The Institute of Ecology Pstimatedthatknown reserves of phosphorus will be depleted by the t•nd of the 21st century due to mining amd erosion. Without phosphate fertilizer, only 1-2 billion people can be supported on earth. Lastly. these agencies minimize pollution through requiring less petroleum inputs. Pollution destroys at least $500 million worth of crops annually. 
This is why I think that it is through the Notre Dame Third World Helief Fund that a Domer can most effectively help the needy two thirds. 
the observer

by Garry Trudeau 
Night Editor -Dan Sanchez . Ass't Night Editor -Mary Janca Layout -Gregg Bangs, Bob Brink, Julie Pellettiere, Maureen Sajbel, Bob Varettonl Copy REader -Ken "Orange" Girouard Day Editor -Val Zurblls Editorials -Fred Graver, John Amantea Sports -Pete McHugh Typists-N. Viii, J. Landis, J. Carney, B. Nor­cross, T. Modglin, R. Huber. Compugraphic Operator -M. Blinder Picture Screener -AI Night Controller -Howard Halle 

Rights listed 
0-C Housing Guide released 
by Bob Tracey Staff Reporter 

The Off-Campus Housing Office has recently released a new brochure for those students who have intentions of moving off­campus next fall, according to Tom Wilson, assistant housing director. 
This publication is intended as an aid to those students who reside in the community outside the 
University. The booklet is designed to make students aware of their rights and responsibilities under the law and enable them to be more selective about contractual relationships with their landlords. 
ThP brochure includes in­formation about the general landlord-tenant relationship regarding such items as rent, damage, utilities, insurance and 
Hall evacuated during SMC fire 
by Sue Nelson and Mary Egan Staff Reporters 

A fire in a Madeleva utility closet, room 343, in the South Third Floor classroom area destroyed an estimated $1000-2000 worth of damage to educational materials, including an audio-visual television, books, maps and chairs yesterday morning. 
Although no official report on the cause of the blaze has been released, the fire is supposed to have started after a cigarette was tossed into a wastebasket in the room. 
Student Cheryl Fawks pulled the fire alarm around 10:30 a.m. when she and a friend noticed black smoke in the hallway. Pete Bowell, maintance worker, then found the fire, and "got some fire extinguishers and started putting it out." 
When the alarm sounded, many students <iid not realize that there was a fire. 
"We never heard it <the alarm) before," stated one student. 
The alarm continued to sound, and within about two minutes all classes were evacuated. A fire engine arrived seconds later, according to student reports. 
Director of Security Anthony Kovatch stated that the blaze was confined to the storeroom, and there were no reports of injuries as a result of the fire. 
Firefighters, hurling burning maps and chairs out of windows to prevent the fire's spread, ex­tinguished the blaze within fifteen minutes, Kovatch said. 
Student reactions to the episode varied. 
One girl commented, "I think we should have periodical fire drills so people know what it <the alarm) is. 
At least we didn't panic." 
"Now we have a good excuse to get some new maps," remarked a member of the history depart­ment. 
IT'S 
LATERTHAN 
WMITHINK. 
On April 2 , time runs out for you to enroll in the 2-year Air Force ROTC Program. Here's what you'll miss: 
• 
$100 a month, tax-free, during your junior and senior years. 

• 
the chance to win a full Air Force scholarship (including tuition, lab fees, the works). 

• 
a challenging job as an Air Force officer upon graduation. 

• 
a future where the sky is no limit. 


Contact CAPT SHEPHERD 
At Building s, Telephone 6634 
PUT IT ALL TOGETHER IN AIR FORCE ROTC 

other legal aspects that the student. as tenant, should be aware of before moving off campus. 
A map of the Notre Dame-South Bend area is also included in­dicating concentrated student areas of living. The densest areas are those south and west of the campus. 
Aside from the Off-Campus Housing Guide, additional materials and resources are available to students who are in­terested in moving from the campus. 
Lists of houses and apartments for rent are available to un­dergraduates and graduates for the fall semester upon request. Presently there are 86 apartments and 68 houses for rent on the lists, and each of them has been in­spected and evaluated by per­sonnel from the Off-Campus Of­fice. 
Inspector's grades of superior, good or fair are included on these lists. along with the landlord's name and home address. A code that depicts the features of the house or 
convenience. 
The numerals in the code 
represent some of the highlights in 
the house or apartment such as 
carpeting, air conditioning, or 
whether or not utilities are in­
cluded in the rent price. The letters 
generally represent the type and 
number of rooms in the house-­
bedrooms, bathrooms, showers, etc. 
Leases are also available for the first time at the Off-Campus Housing Office. Often the leases provided by the landlord do not provide for tenants' rights, Wilson stated. The lease offered by the University is intended to aid the student and allow both tenant and landlord an equity, he continued. 
All of the materialsare available free to those interested in moving off campus. Because of the high cost of the booklet, only students who are going to live off campus may obtain them. 
Any questions regarding off­campus living may be directed to th~ Off-Campus Housing Office, third floor of the Administration 

Thursday, February 13, 1975 the observer 
SPRING BREAK TRIP TO 
MONTEGO BAY 
JAMAICA 

ROUND TRIP VIA AIR JAMAICA FROM DETROIT DAYS, 7 NIGHTS AT.LUXURIOUS MONTEGO BAY HOLIDAY MARCH 22-29 :$332 per person 
$50 DEPOSITS DUE BY FRI. FEB 14! CALL 272-9895 OR STOP BY S.U. TICKE'r OFFICE FOR FURTHER INFORMATION~ 
SPONSORED BY ST. JOE B~NK TRAVEL AGENCY 
N 0 W APPEARING 
.SUDS 
AND 
LISTEN 





~Sizu/a~
NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS on U.S. 31 Mtween llies. So. B•d-Frll l'artin&-683-(350. 

Tribute to Madeleva 
SMC president honored 
b)' Anna Monardo Simultaneously, slides of her In addition to her duties as Starr Reporter family and of herself as a child in president, Sister Madeleva also Cumberland, Wisconsin taught several English classes.
were Sister Mary Madeleva Wolff, shown. While showing slides of past 
former president of Saint Mary's, After a year at the University of years at St. Mary's, the taped was commemorated in a Wisconsin, she came to St. Mary's voice of Sister Madeleva expressed documentary presentation at Saint where she entered the religious her feelings for the students, "I tell 
Mary's last night. community. She received her them that they will never be as 
The program was introduced as Masters from Notre Dame and intelligent as they are in college. "a tribute to Sister Madeleva ten completed her doctorate at the That is why they must grasp the years after her death. It is offered University of California at opportunities they have here." lovingly to all those who did not Berkeley. Her career as a poet "Being God's daughters they are know her during her seventy-seven began when a Notre Dame truly beautiful. Since I have given years, twenty-seven of which were professor sent a few of her poems to God my life, he has given me my spent as president of Saint Mary's to the Atlantic Monthly. family of girls.", she continued. 
College. especially to students, In 1933, Sr. Madeleva went to The main classroom building of alumnae. faculty. administrators England to study girls' colleges Saint Mary's is named in honor of and staff since 1964." abroad. After a 14 year absence, Sister Madeleva. The presentation was planned, she returned to South Bend to 
produced and narrated by Sister become president of Saint Mary's. NDDebate Team l\laria Assunta Werner, CSC. Sister Madeleva's impact on the Wt•rner described it as "More than college was described by a St. eliminated in 
a biography. this slide-sound Mary's administrator, who said, presentation tries to capture "With Sister Madeleva, changes quarter finals something of her personality, her began. A nursing program was 
The Notre Dame Debate team oflove of poetry. of nature, of young begun. upper and lower divisions John Lund and Jim Maniacepeople. of friends. of God." of study were established, the placed in the quarter finals lastA series of slides. accompanied Heidinger House was built for weekend at the Loyola Universityby a taped narration, was Home Ec. majors and the corner Centennial Debate Tournament.
presented. The narration included stone for the Performing Arts Competing against 23 teams fromvoices of various friends, students, Building was set. It was at this five states, Maniace was namedeo-workers of Sister Madeleva's as time that blacks were given ad­the sixth top speaker in the tour­well as Sister herself. Many of mittance to the college." 
nament, Lund was awarded the 
her· poems were read as slides "The changes she initiated were eighth top spot.correlating to them were shown. not limited to the academic Maniace and Lund met teams The poem. Mountain Tops. was aspects of the school, they also from Southern Illinois, North visually presented with pic­included opening the recreation Michigan, Northern Illinois and turesque slides of mountains in the rooms for smoking, and Saturday Washington-Lee before being Southwest where Sister spent quite tea dances with Tom Dooley at the eliminated by Northwestern in the a few years. piano." quarter-finals. 
Among the other poems, two Another speaker commented, The same team of Lund and written fo.· her parents, To the "The campus as it is today is much Maniace won quarter final honors \'t•J'\' Old llal'lless Maker and 1\h the result of her work and 
at the Bradley University debate, tournament last semester.
lh·st Dl'l'ss were read. · devotion." 
Counseling centers offering .male-fe:male co.m:munication 
by Rob Brink anyone. Each discussion group Hoom from 3: 15 -5: 15 p.m.

Staff Reporter 

will consist of an equal number of Leaders for Group IV will be The Counseling Centers of St. men and women. The groups will Suzanne Areson and Jim Covino. 
THURSDAY PITCHER BEER NITE 
TONIGHT "IAN QUAIL" 
WHITE HOUSE INN 


NO COVER
2839 N. 5th 

683-9842
Just 8 mi. north of the state Iine. 
Take U.S. 31 north to Niles, then north on hiyhway 51 3 mi. 

SOUTH BEND'S IRISH PUB 

~..r.t., o~' 
~:_.a srr~~'S. 

NOW SERVING GYROS (A GREEK SPECIALTY) AND OTHER FINE FOOD 
ALSO YOUR FAVORITE BEER, WNEAND COCKTAILS ACROSS FR0\1 
GOOD OLD CORB 

Mary's and Notre Dame are of-be co-ordinated by Sara Groesch, a Group V will meet Thursday, :• fering discussion groups con-graduate student and staff Feb. 20, at 7-9 p.m. in room 400 of • cerning male-female relationships member of the Notre Dame the Administration building. Cathi : of the ND-SMC community. Counseling Center. The groups Orme and Craig Adams will lead • 
Two groups will meet at St. will involve discussion. encounter, this group. • Mary's, and three groups will meet and possibly some structure To sign up for the discussion : at Notre Dame. They will meet exercises. groups. or to obtain further in-• once a week. and will continue for Group I will meet Monday, Feb. formation about them, call the : eight or nine weeks. 17, from 7-9 p.m. at Notre Dame in Notre Dame Counseling Center at • 
The purpose of the sessions is to room 400 of the Administration 283-1717. : provide a setting which will enable building. The group leaders will be The Notre Dame Counseling • men and women to discuss issues Sara Groesch and Bob Shiel. Center is also offering two life • of mutual concern. Some proposed Group II will also meet on Monday, planning workshops. The aim of : issues for discussion include: the from 7-9 p.m. at St. Mary's in the the workshops is to get students problems in building relationships, Augusta Group Room. The leaders thinking more concretely about : the games men and women play will be Gail Ritchie and Ed Roche. their future goals. One workshop while dating, the significance of Group III will meet on Tuesday, is scheduled for Friday, Feb. 14, at : the changing roles of men and f'eb. 18, from 3-5 p.m. at Notre 9 a.m. and the other is set for women. communications in sexual Dame in room 400 of the Ad-Sunday, Feb. 16, at 1 p.m. relationships. and paternal ex-ministration building. Leading the Anyone interested in joining a : pectations. group will be Monica Daughtery workshop should visit the Coun-
The discussion groups, which and Bob Burnham. Also on seling Center in room 400 of the : will be led by staff members of the Tuesday, Group IV will meet at St. Administration building, or call Counseling Centers, are open to Mary's in the Augusta Group 283-1717. 
******************************************************** : 
~ It's a shocking drama. It is a film that matters and ,.... f : 
~ h " ) ...... 
~ that will remain in your eart. *• 
~ -JUDITH CRIST, Now York Mogazlno * 

• 
• 
•

~SUMMER •• • 
•
~~WISHES " ~ i • •• • 
•
•
•
~ WINTEii i~ • ~DREAMS ~. 
: "A film to be treas-: : : CINEMA 75 presents ured by everyone! : : •
•i Summer Wishes, Winter Dreams JoanneWoodward :! •••
•
~Starring Martin Balsam and is superb. Martin : : • : Joanne Woodward Balsam in his best : ! 
• 
: role and perform-: : : Thursday and Friday nights in the anceofmanyyears'! :! •• • : Engineering Auditorium. Shows -FR~ANcEs~~;~L~n~tsiManaPress •
a: 

~ are at 7,9,11 p.m. each night WOODWARD -..,·. *: • • : ·BEST ACTRESS:' : 
~ ADMISSION IS ONE DOLLAR NewYorkFilmCriticsCircle lf-: ******************************************************** ••• 

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
STARTS TOMORROW ••
•
TIMES-1:45 3:45 5:45 7:45 9:45 •
•
•
FIWI\1 TilE 1\JADCAP MAKER OF "BLAZING SADDLES" 
• 
• 
• ~ 
•
•
• •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 



the observer 

Reactions vary 
Staffs collllllent on salaries 
(continued from page 2) 
seventeen years ago for something like 87 cents an hour, and that was better than most places even then." She went on to say that "Notre Dame has always been good to me and I simply can't fault their pay scale -it's better than most." she continued. 
Another maid echoed her sen­
timents in a similar manner. "I'm 
on social security right now and 
the University really doesn't have 
to keep me employed, but they do 
and I'm grateful to them for it." 
she said. 
Jaworski explained that many of 
the housekeepers <maids) are over 
the social security age. "We have 
a lot of people working for us part-
time who are in their seventies. 
We call them up and give them a 
chance '.: work for a few days 
when w1g1eed them. It helps us 
and ther~ for they're reliable and 
we giv~~.hem a chance to make 
some extra moeny," he explained. 
Director of Food Services Arthur 
Price also pointed out that he has 
several older people working for 
him. "We've had some people 
working in here for over thirty,....:~~~~~~~~~:--:-:~~~~~~~~~~~~------, 
vears. There's one woman who V.·orks for us part-time and must be in her sevennes. We just can't keep her away from this place ­she's great." he related. 
Not all workers view the pay scale with such an admirable eye. 
"Hightnow, the only reason I'm working here is because the job market is so tight I couldn't get a job anywhere else. Other than 
that. I'd be out of this place-after 
my last paycheck." one cafeteria worker stated.
Another cafeteria worker was not quite as down on his place of employment. "Everybody knows the pay around here isn't the greatest. but compared to a lot of places around town. it works out pretty Wl'll." he admitted. 
One worker was totally fed up with "reading about how the faculty is always bitching about how bad their benefits are." "My (;od". he continued, if anybody l'lse around here wanted to, I'd help start a union to get better wages -that seems to be the only way to get anything done around here." 
Both the food service workers 
and maintenance employees do not 
have unions representing them. In 
fact. most of the staff workers 
don't belong to a union. Notable 
l'xceptions are the stage 
technicians. laundry workers and 
WANTED 

":de 11eect£·d lo Kalamazoo f ebo uary 14. Call 4261 
"''''rricd-couple needed for live-in hous,•parents tor foster home. Salary Write P.E.P. Inc. 3012 S. 1\1\yckenham. South Bend 46614 
Slll\l<~r tor rock band. Experience prelcrrl'd. !Jut not necessary. Call 1\'•ke 8624 
N••ed ride lo St. Louis weekend of I <'b ~1. Call Joanne at 6997 
N<'Cd riders to Madoson Leaving F-ri. Fl•b. 14, Return Sun. Call Joe 289 3923 
Need riders lor Akron leaving Friday. Call Karen 287-2721 
Need ride to Phila. Fri. Feb 14 Call Rill 1409 
Need ride to Ann Arbor lor this weekend ..Call Betsy at 7904 
FOR SALE 

SR 10 calculator lor sale $50. Call Rick Huber 3156 
1966 Ford custom lour-door automatic, good running condition, radial tires and 2 snow tires. Air conditioning $500 272-0859 alter 6 
pm 
"" hilnd llOif clubs 3215 tor details 
machinists. 
A rumor has been spreading that a group of staff workers were fired two years ago for attempting to start a union. Although many staff members admitted they had heard this rumor, not one person out of over twenty-five questioned had any definite information about such a movement. 
Personnel Director O'Brien related that there has never been any union movement within the dining hall or maintenance crew workers. He did say that it wouldn't bother him if a union was formulated. "Unions are a part of life. If the dining hall workers voted to set up a union, we'd just have to negotiate with the union." 
Why hasn't there been any at­tempt at setting up a union in the dining halls and the maintenance department? "We attempt to stayahead of our competitors as I previously mentioned." O'Brien said. "I think by offering better base rates and having good supervisors we establish good relations with our workers," he 
1 

r ~I -AYIIIIID"DISIIlYS In ~If 
~ ~ 
~.G \VONDERIAND ~ . .-J()I•_le--~...... ~.-:. ~~.-""a/-. 

· 
U' _ • • ~~~ • ~ 

Marmontello agreed, saying that, "We have a supervisor's training program which help professionalize that position. One of the courses deals with human relations. I think that by having a good rapport between supervisors and workers a good situation is established," he explained. 
Marmonetllo also thought that a union might provide several negative aspects such as union dues and regulations. He thought that most members of the dining hall were satisfied with the way things were going. One example of this might be seen in the fact that the entire working staff has a very low turnover rate. 
"We have a very low turnover rate at the dining halls. In fact. our application rate is incredibly high. The area unemployment rate is very high and people 'art> trying anywhere to get jobs. Notre Dame has a very stable record for em­ploying people and this reputation draws people to us, "Ma.rmontello explained. 
Jaworski also said he had a very low turnover rate. 
this weekend 
LIVE MUSIC BY 


ZERA 

9:30-1:30 FRIDAY & SATURDAY 
•••. 2046 SOUTH BEND AVENUE 

. : ';.;.:-:-:.;.:-:.:-:-;.:.;.;.>:.;-:.:-:.:<.:-:.;-:.:-..;.:-..·> ..;..:->..;.................-:.>;...;-:...;·:.:->:-:-:.:-:.;.:-:.:-:<::-;.:.;<.:-:-;.:-;...:-;.:-. . . :. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
ND class ring man's, size 10' 2, 'heap 234 6375 
NOTICES 
MonL'V, Morrissey Loan will lend up lo 'S150 tor 30 days 1 day waiting pcr•od Basement of LaFortune. [laily 11: 15 to 12:15 
Happy Hour at Louie's 7:30 to 8:30 Mon lhru Thursday. Special price on a pint of beer. 
RPsponsible students desire to rent onotorhom<' lor 10 days (March 21­
30) tor trip to Florida. Will pay 5400. Call Trace 234-1889 
HASH BROWN BLUES BAND NOW AVAILABLE FOR YOUR PARTY, DANCE OR FORMAL. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION. CALL 272-9895 
Disciplinary action hanging over your head? Call Student Govt. 7668. We may be able to help. 
TICKETS FOR THE PLAY "THE RIVER NIGER" TO BE PRESENTED BY THE SOUTH BEND BROADWAY THEATRE LEAGUE AT THE MORRIS CIVIC ON THURSDAY FEBRUARY 13 ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE. $1.00 DISCOUNT ALL TICKETS FOR NO & SMC STUDENTS. 

w,•s!Prn <'iectronics 24 hour TV service. 1530 WPstern Ave. 282-1955 
Typioh papers, thesis, disser­tation~ R< asonable rates. reliable 'ervin' 27'1-0859 after 6 pm 
R••nftor~ •or renters insurance call t'len or J<'SS Neely 272-6565 State I arm Insurance 
~ollinq Stone, Village Voice, Berkeley Barb, Ann Arbor Sun, East west Journal & more newspapers at Pandoras Books 602 
N. St. Loui~ Blvd. at South Bend Ave. 
THIS SPRING BREAK(March 22­
29) REGGAE DOWN TO MON­TEGO BAY, JAMAICA! ROUND TRIP BY AIR JAMAICA JET & DELUXE ACCOMODATIONS AT THE PLUSH MONTEGO BAY HOLIOAY INN. TENNIS, GOLF, SWIMMING AND GREAT RAYS IN THE CARIBBEAN SUN. $50 DEPOSITS MUST BE IN BY FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14. FOR 
MORE INFORMATION AND 
SIGN-UPS,  STOP  BY  THE  
STUDENT  UNION  TICKET  
OFFICE  OR  CALL  272-9895  AF­ 

TER 7:00pm. ARRANGEMENTS BY THE ST. JOE BANK TRAVEL AGENCY. 
Party at Woody's 1223 Woodward Av. Fri., Feb. 14 at 9:00 Call 234­5523 lor directions. 
Enter the Mock Stock Market "Old Business Building" or LaFortune 
PARTY THIS FRIDAY 
HOT WINE AND BEER 



MPdical Product Research Group is 'onducting investigation of symptoms & problems of sinus suflert•rs. Any person (student, faculty or staff) with sinus probl<•ms interested in par­ticipating in a \troup discussion call D.C. 1739, Jim 3155 
FOR RENT 
Houses ranging from two to seven bedrooms. Completely furnished. Available lor May or Sept. 234-9364 
LOST & FOUND 
Found: Pair of glasses near Zahm in a cloth case. Call 8231 
1 pair of ladies glasses in pink, qreen and qrey case. Lost Sat nile between Grace & Cavanaugh. II found please call 1769 or 7827 
Lost: Brown leather purse. Please return. Reward 4543 
Found: Ladies Timex watch with link band. Also, gold plated ball­point pen & pr of mens plastic frame qlasses. Mem. Lib Lost & Found counter 
Lost: long white and blue knitted scarf. Call 3694. Reward 
Scarf found in aftermath of party at NO Apts. Please call 232-4069 and identity 
PERSONALS 
Rear Commadore, what better title? We love you lor it. Bob and Doll 
Dare! Oer Herr Senqe Euch Craig 
Idaho: I hate liver I hate ee-bee do I hate anchovies But I dig you. Ramona 
B.S. I really do hate anchovies! 
Radio Valentines Call WSND at 6400 & broadcast your Valentine wishes to the world. Fri. Feb. 14 7 AM-6:30 pm 
To: Rudy, Kayo, Goobs, Marcy, Renee, Terry, Mindy, Katy, Barb, Marybeth, Jane, Kathy, Joan, refsy, Carol. Ann, Claire, Maureen, Chris, Mitzi, Judy, C111dy, Reesa, Kim, Jo, Loretta, Sally, Ro, Marty, Laura, Gerry, Susan, Nancy, Mary, Sister Jean, Janet. Maryfran, Kit, Denise, Reggie, Robin, Amy: Be my Valentine? 
W. Skeffington Higgins 
For the girl who has nothing . call Mike 1797 . Neither does he. The Big One. 
·Lori, Now let's try bumper pool. Happy V Day! Burt 

1n New York to face Redmen



ND • 


Skiers seize Cup 
by Pt>tt' 1\tcllugh 
Paced by freshman Joe Dwyer's first place showing in the slalom, the Notre Damt• ski team captured the Crystal Mountain Cup championship last weekend at Crvstal Mountain. Michigan. The Irish bested a 16 team field from 1\lichigan. Ohio. and Indiana for the Cup. 
I>wver. who led a team first in the ~lalom. outmaneuvered 81 racers for the gold medal. The Olean. Nt>w York native handled thl' icy single-gate course in 57.8 seconds for the victory. 
l<'reshman Pat Gleason followed Dwver for the Irish with his 6th place finish. Gordon Wilson, Stan llipcho. and Dennis Hubbel also Parm•d points in the team win. In 

Swimmers streak to lOth 
b)' Ernie Torrit>ro 
If consistency is the mark of a true champion. then the Notre I>aml' swim team certainly fits into that class. The undefeated Irish were in complete command all the way. as they rolled to their lOth straight victory. 64-49, over Western Michigan. Notre Dame breezed to nine out of 13 first-place finishes. while posting seven second-place finishes and four third-place finishes. The victory proved to be a total team effort as nine different swimmers put first­place points on the scoreboard. 
The 400-yard medley relay has been an Irish stronghold all year long. The foursome of Bob Thompson. Bob Wardell, Bob Heilly and Jim Kane won that event for the tenth straight meet with a time of 3:42.5. Kane won again in the 50-yard freestyle ( :22.3 l, Heilly in the 200-butterfly <2:04.8), and Thompson in the ZOO­backstroke (2:05.6). Other first place finishes for the Irish included Jim Mt>agher in the 200-freestyle 
(I :49.0) and freshman Ed Fitz­simons in the tOO-freestyle (0:49.8). 
Notre Dame was especially storng in the diving events. Joe Caverly easily won the 1 meter diving with a total of 254.60 points. But the high point of the meet camt• when Bob Ebel put on a sensational diving performance as he set a new varsity and pool 

by Greg Corgan Sports Editor 
If they've managed to land, the 
Irish basketball team will have its 
hands full tonight. The Irish left 
South Bend yesterday after~oon 
for New York to play St. John's in 
Mad~son Square Garden this 
evemng. But at the time their 4:30 
flight took off, the New York 
airports were closed, feeling the 
brunt of a winter storm which 
dumped eight inches of snow on the 
metropolitan area. 
If the snow turns out to be Digger Phelps' biggest problem, he'll be grateful. The Redmenof St. John's are 14-6, and heading .into the homestretch of their season, they've picked up momentum. "St. John's is going to be tough," said 
Phelps after the Air Force game. 
"They beat Niagara by something 
like 25 points and they beat a good 
Fordham team Saturday.'' 
The situation is compounded 
somewhat by the fact that the 
game is the second of a twin bill in 
Madison Square Garden, follo·Ning 
the Manhattan-Connecticut con­
test. So far approximately u;,ooo 
of the 19,500 tickets available have 
been sold. "Its a real psyche -out 
job when we play St. John's before 
a packed crowd in the Gardt·n," 
said Digger. "And it looks like the 
game will be sold out." 
The crowd can't play basketball 
however, although in New York 
they usually think they know how 
to, but Mel Utley can. Utley is f.t. 
John's leading scorer averaging 
15.9 points per game, and last year, the 6-3 guard was a member of the ECAC all-star team and the all­Metropolitan New York squad. 
Utley averaged about 18 points a 
game last year when the Redr.ten 
went 20-7. This year he's had a lot 
of help. Three of the other fr.ur 
starters are averaging ten points 
or better including Utley's back­
court mate George Johnson 
<10.6ppgl. The forwards are Kevin 
Cluess < 12.4ppg l, a 6-4 senior and a 
6-5 sophomore Glen Williams (11.7 
ppgl. The center is 6-11 sophomore 
Tom Weadock. 
Redmen coach Lou Carnesseca 
is known to substitute freely, 
however, and frontcourt reserves 
Bill Smith (9.5ppgl and John 
Farmer <6.2ppg l along with junior 
guard Frankie Alagia (6.2 ppgl 
should log a fair amount of playing 
time. 

The Irish will again go with Ray Martin and Duck Williams at guard with Bill Paterno, Pete Crotty and Adrian Dantley on the front line. With 49 points Monday night, Dantley has again moved his defeated 78-77 at Columbia earlier scoring average over the 31 ppg in the yearl should help us out. Of mark. Phelps doesn't play iron-course, again, the tournament man five basketball either and co-officials will have to look at the captain Dwight Clay, Toby Knight, schedules. If we took Indiana, Dave Batton and Jeff Carpenter Maryland, Kentucky and UCLA off will see plenty of action. the schedule and played St. Mary's 
The series record between Notre three times, we'd be 17-3 and 
Dame and St.John's is deadlocked guaranteed a berth. 

at 7-7. The Irish won the last A 13-7 record may be good 
meeting between the two squads enough so far, and wins over St. 
7<;-71 during the 72-73 season. John's tonight and LaSalle on 
"Beating St. John's is important Saturday would more than even from an NCAA tournament bid Notre Dame's chances. Tipoff this standpoint," emphasized Digger. evening is slated for 9:15p.m., and "Proving we could beat South the game will be broadcast on Carolina <whom the Redmen WSBT and WNDU radio. 
Greg Corgan':':':':':':':':':':':':':':':':':':':':':':':':':':':':':':':·:':':':':·:':-:-:,:·:':,:':,:·:':,:,:·:·:·:-:-:,:·: 
The Irish Eye 

::':':':':':-:::-:-:':·:·:':-:-:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:::,:,:,:,:::,:,:,:,:,:::,:::,:::::::,:::::::,::::An eastern view 
Watching the Notre Dame-Michigan State hockey series last weekend 
was a sportswriter from theNl'w York Timt's. His name is Art Kaminsky 
and although he writes a college hockey column for the Sunday Times and 
does work for lntt'rcollegiate Hockt>y, Kaminsky is a New York lawyer by 
profession. 

How he finds time to practice law is probably the $64,000 question 
because his knowledge of college hockey, is , to say the least, extensive. 
His area of concentration is the Eastern Collegiate Athletic Conference as 
would be expected of a New York writer, but he has done his homework 
on the WCHA. 

"In comparing the ECAC with the WCHA," he notes, "I would have to 
say that the first four teams in both leagues are of the same caliber. I 
think the last four teams in the WCHA are somewhat better than the last 
four teams in the ECAC, but that's always difficult to be certain about. 
"The western teams play more of a pro-type game. They also seem to 
play better defense and there's more checking." 

The Irish might debat€ the statement, since they played the ECAC 
leaders, Harvard, and were swamped, 8-2. 

"That was just a case of Harvard's fast, little forwards being too quick 
for your defensemen to handle," Kaminsky says. "There are two kinds of 
speed, straight skating speed and skating quickness. Notre Dame's 
defensemen are fast, but they aren't quick. Of course Harvard's good. 
They beat Vermont the other day, and Vermont is a strong contender in 
the East this year." 

Kaminsky was at Notre Dame to do a piece on the line of Clark 
Hamilton. Brian Walsh and Alex Pirus, who have accounted for 44 of 
NO's 95 goals this year. "But the guy I was really impressed with," he 
adds',' was Collier. He's going to be a good one." 

Geoff Collier is a freshman center out of Montreal who had a goal and 
an assist in Friday night's game and had a generally solid performance in 
the weekend series. 

"What I was disappointed with, is Notre Dame's power play," adds Art. 
·'They seem a bit unorganized and don't always keep a man in front of the 
net. And the only timt• they seem to get into trouble is when they're 
penalized or when the defensemen don't fall back on defense. Against 
Michigan State, which is a better skating club, the defensemen should 
have been dropping back into position instead of coming up the ice to 
challenge." 

Kaminsky didn't elaborate much further, opting to leave the coaching 
responsibilities to Lefty Smith. But as a fight broke out in the ice, he again 
brought up the ECAC. 

"In the East you never see a fight. In four years, I haven't seen one 
fight. They don't play as many games in the ECAC and no one can afford 
the luxury of being suspended for a game or two." 

That. however, may also have something to do with the fact that since 
1948 only six ECAC teams have won the NCAA championship, the last 
being Boston University in 1972. Wisconsin won in 1973 and Minnesota last 
year. 

"It's good to see hockey become a major sport at a place like Notre 
Dame." offers Kaminsky. "At a school so rich in football tradition and in 
a basketball state, it's to your credit that hockey is so big." 

''It's also the only school I've seen with cheerleaders that go out on the 
ice." 

What's a lawyer doing roaming the countryside watching college 
hockey instead of defending clients? "I enjoy college hockey," he says. 
"It's a lot of fun." 


MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES * 2 FILMS 
* 
BOOKSTORE 


* 
LIVE FLOOR SHOW 


1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET CALl 282-1206 FOR INFORMATION 
the giant slalom. Notre Dame took sixth in the 71 man field.topped by Gleason's 14th place finish. 
The Irish B team couldn't match Dwyer's performance but finished an impressive 8th in the sixteen team field ahead of five A squads. !\like Salzer. Tom Dever, .Jamie Stepht>ns. Mike Morgante, Roy (;prmand. Tom Lux, and captain John Goss headed the Irish, showing. In the women's com­petition. the lone Notre Dame Pntries. Anne Hawkins and Laurie 1\lcCollister. failed to place. 
Notre Dame travels to Man­sfield. Ohio this weekend for the Ohio Governor's Cup races. The woml'n 's team is defending champion in the annual com­pt>tition. 
record with 297.5 points. That point total missed a NCAA qualifying mark by a mere three points. Ebel broke a pool record that had stood since 1962. 
This meet marked the llOth time that a Notre Dame swim team has won while under the auspices of coach Dennis Stark. Notre Dame Athletic Director Ed Krause was in attendance at tonight's contest and he came away with nothing but praise for the hard-working swim team. 

The undefeated Irish now must face up to their stiffest challenge Saturday, as Big-Ten rival Purdue invades the Rockne Memorial Pool for a 4:00p.m. contest with Notre Daml'. Admission is free and open to the public. The Irish are ripe for revenge as the Boilermakers gave Notre Dame their worst beating last year, 86-37. 



