
Limits liability of universities 
Drinking bill passes state House 
by Hon Rt>im~r Staff Reporter 
A bill limiting the liabilty of colleges and universities in cases of underage student drinking was passed yesterday by the In· diana House. The Senate had earlier passed the Faccenda bill on February 25. 
The bill, passed by a 69 to 19 margin, will now go back to the Senate for its approval of a r;der amendment added by the House. If the Senate approves the amended bill, it will be sent to Governor Otis Bowen M.D. for his signature. However, if the Senate rejects the amendment, the differences would then go to a House-Senate conference for com­promise. 
Provisions of Bill 
TJ!e House amendment would allow 18 vear-olds in Indiana to enter establishements that serve alcohol, provided they do not consume alcohol. At present only persons 21 years of age may enter establishments serving alcohol. 
Dr. Phillip Faccenda, University General (\mnsel and co-author of the bill, declined to 
comment on ~'potential effects of the new 
law on future Notre Dame policy, instead 
preferring to withhold his statement until 
the bill is officially signed into law. 
The University Counsel did, however, explain exactly how the University's libability was limited by the provisions of the bill. The need for the bill arose due to an Indiana Court of Appeals decision l~st April placing responsibility on those,Who allow alcohol to be distributed to minors on their property. ii"accenda explained that previously this responsibility had rested only on establishments licensed to sell alcohol. such as taverns. 
, 'hange in liability 
"They attempted to put the liability on the landowner," said Faccenda, "irrespective of whether he dispensed alcohol." The Court felt that the landowner "had a responsibility to it," noted Faccenda. 
The Bill, sponosred in the House by ninth district representative Richard Bodine, states that this liability is valid for the private home-owner, but not an educational institution which cannot possibly take 
responsibility for the large numbers of is necessary to prevent the university from students. shouldering the responsibility they should "A University can't be in as close control not have to bear," explained Faccenda. as can a hom•'owner," Faccenda pointec' "I personally believe that the best action out. . . would be to change the age of majority,"
The bill was wr1tte~ last summ~r by commented Faccenda, stressing that his members of. Faccenda_ s staff a~d 1ss~ed statement was only a personal opinion. 
from h1s office. "We started d1scussmg possible avenues of action with legislative 
leaders last summer," stated Faccenda. 
lntroducPd to Senate 
Introduc~d into the Indiana Senate at the beginning of the present session by Senate Majority leader Phillip Gutman <Rl and Minority Leader Thomas Teague <Dl, the Faccenda bill passed the Senate in a 46 to 3 vote. It then was taken up by the House. 
Faccenda said that there was "no direct connection" between this bill and the eighteen-year-old drinking bill killed earlier by a House committee. 
"If the legislature had seen fit to change the age of majority <drinking agel we would not need this bill," remarked Faccenda. "They didn't see fit to do so," therefore, "it 
!'lio comment 
Dean of Students John Macheca declined to comment on any possible effect this bill might have on future University policy, citing his unfamiliarity with the bill. "I'm not that familiar with the exact wording of the bill and I don't know anything about the amendments, so I don't feel that I'm in a position to comment," explained Macheca. 
Declining to speculate on passage of the amended bill by the Senate and the governor, Faccenda expressed hope for its adoption, saying, "I hope that the Senate approves the bill and I hope that the governor signs it." 
Forcing ND to take a stand 
University holds closed abortion conference 
by Christie Herlihy Starr Rt>portPr 

A "closed scholarly conference" was held March 19-21 by the University to discuss "Abortion: Public Policy and Morality." However, the allowance of such a forum on the Notre Dame campus has reopened the inquiry into the Vniversity's Catholic character and emphasized the need for Notre Dame to take a stance onthe issue of abortion. 
Sponsored by the University's Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society, the printed goal of the conference was to bring together experts of various disciplines in order to facilitate communication between the op­positng sides. A second purpose was to ultimately ~·illuminate the role" that can be played by scholars as "policy advisors." 
The speakers and participants included advocates of legalized, permissive abortion, such as Christopher Tietze, M.D., of the Poupulation Council, Harriet Pilpel, attorney for the Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Inc., as well as abortion opponents such as Dean Thomas L. Shaffer of the Notre Dame Law School and Chicago attorney Dennis Horan. 
Shaffer. who participated as a commentator, believed that the conference succeeded in in its attempt at communication. 
'The conference was polar with some gain. The question was whether the people will listen to the opposite side. The gain in this respect was small," he confessed. "There's a great deal left to be done." 
Shaffer added that only through such a peace table-like setting could the two opposing sides find some basis for the resolvement of the abortion conflict. · 
"The libertarian argues that abortion protects the freedom of women and the Right-to-Life organization denounces the decision as the murder of unborn children. Wtih suchbio-polarviews there can never be hope forfinding some way of coming to terms with this issue," he stated. 
Shaffer believed that the con­ference did succeed in its second purpose of emphasizing the need 
for scholars to assume the role of 
leadership. 
"Since the politicians have not 
come to terms with this issue, it is 
the hope that scholars might," he 
said. 
Hicf' rf'fused invitation 
The opening of the forum to pro­abortion platform was met with protest from Charles Rice, law professor who declined his in­vitation to attend the conference for two main reasons. 
"First, by hosting the conference with its debates and discussions, the University implicitly but unmistakably affirms that there is something disputable about abortion, that something can legitimately can be said in favor of the legalized killing of babies," Rice explained. 
He emphasized that such an affirmation is "indefensible for a university that claims the name Catholic." The question on abortion has already been an­swered by the teachings of the Catholic Church," he declared. 
Rice's second objection to the conference was that Notre Dame gave the proponents of abortion a "respectable platform to confuse the uninformed and to undercut the efforts of those who advocate the right to live." He contended that by granting the opposition the honor of a forum the University compromised its own position. 
Emphasizing that, he criticized only the judgement of those who initiated the conference. Not implying that the organizers were personally favorable to abortion. Rice deemed the conference a "forfeiture of an important leadership opportunity by the University." 
Regrettably, the University implicityly affirms that on this issue its corporate mind is open at both ends and that it is incapable of apprehending and institutionally procaliming the simple truth that legalized baby killing is irrevocably and indisputably wrong." he sa ta ted. 
Ri~'e maintained that the aborf;>n forum implied no op­portu.Jity to persuade the pro­abortionists to a right to life view and that by granting permission for a discussion of the merits of legalized baby killing it was voiced the strong commitments of "laying itself open to possible Father Hesburgh and Father exploitation by those who will use Burtchaell to the rights of the the conference to gain respec­unborn child, Ms. Pilpel stated, "I tability for their anti-life don't know that Notre Dame has positions." taken a stance on this issue. It has 

Harriet Pilpel, an attorney from bene been my third trip to Notre New York City who spoke on "The Dame, and I have spoken on 1973 Abortion Decision Should abortion on all three occasions. Stand," believed the conference Just because Notre Dame is was "A free exchange of recognized as a Catholic institution ideas. It was not a debate: the does not mean that it has taken a participants did not try to impress stance. Catholics have different their personal stands on this positions on abortion." issue." Acknowledging that Notre Dame 
On Catholic campus has not taken a stance, Shaffer strongly urged such an action. Commenting on coming to the "I would like to see the Notre Dame campus which has University do it. Of course it would 
have to come from the Board of 
Trustees. They discussed it at one 
time," he noted. 
Shaffer considered Notre Dame's holding of the conference a step towards assuming leadership in coming to grips with the con­troversial issue of abortion. 
He added, "I hav.e not heard of similar conferences being held on other campuses. I think it better to discuss than to maintain silence." 
He agreed with the conference's closed policy saying that it allowed for a "cross fertilization among scholars." He added that many of the participants such as those in governmental positions would not 
( continuPd on page 5) 

Lowenstein speaks on politics 
by Tom Russo Staff Reporter 

Demonstrating that the abuse of power over the past half dozen years has consisted in political deception AI Lowenstein, a member of the Democratic National Committee and former Congressman from Long Island, addressed over 100 students and faculty· in the Law School lounge last night. 
Lowenstein arrived a half hour after his scheduled appearance due to a cancelled plane flight to Detroit. He detoured through Indianapolis. 
"I want you to understand the effectiveness of (political) decisions when they are presented as something quite the oppostie of what people thought they were choosing." the informally dressed Lowenstein asserted. 
Lower>>tein. delivering his remarks with subtle,ironicc humor. illustrated this central point in ,nree areas: the protest movements, the 1972 election, and the U.S. involvement in Vietnam. 
Concerning protest movements, Lowen­stein cited the deception practiced by the Federal Government when they hired a Mr. Grimm to burn a building at the University of Alabama in 1970 to discredit the anti­Cambodian demonstrations there. 
f'urthermore. he pointed out that during the televised hearings which investigated the demonstrators' arrests, TV camera men filmed only those demonstrators such as Black and Jewish people which would discredit the movement in the eyes of Alabamans. 
(continuf'd on page 1-1) 


an c:ampus today 
Friday, April 4 

10:30 am--e.g. jung conference, "on jung & w. faulkner" by prof. colllng, faculty & student 
i.d. required, wash hall. 

12  am-S  pm--adoration  of  the  
blessed  sacrament,  lady  
chapel.  
12:15  pm--seminar,  "com­ 

munity study: a transitive verb" by d. finks, lib. fac. lounge. 
2:30 pm--jung conference, "on jung & alchemy: a personal view" by dr. von franz, wash hall. 
3:25 pm--seminar, "deter­mination of number of active centers & activity center in a graded set of platinum catalysts" by prof. turkevich, conference room audt., radiation lab. 4 pm--colloquium, "enhan­cement & persistence of human agression" by r. sebastian, room 119, haggar hall. S pm--benediction, lady chllpel. 5 pm--mass & dinner, bulla shed. 5 pm--vespers,log chapel. 7,9,11 pm--film, "alice's restaurant", $1, eng. aud. 
7:30 pm--jung conference, "on transformation & the Imperfect god" by prof. halpern, wash. hall. 8 pm--play, "I do! I do!", $1, little theater, moreau, smc. 8 pm--world travel series, "Isle of the mediterranean" by h. pollard, o'laughlin audt., smc. 

8:15 pm--concert, nd s~ring band concert, ace arena. ' 9 pm-1 am--dance, "back to spring fling", $.75, stepan center. 10 pm-1 am--smc coffeehouse, 10-mark hopkins, 11-1am-pete snake, popsicles-10 cents. 
Saturday, April 5 
10 am--jung conference, "on demonology, theurgy, & 'connecting to the image' in jungian psychology" by dr. hillman, wash. hall. 11 am--lacrosse, nd "b" team vs. albrlon, stepan field, free 1:30pm--lacrosse, nd "a" team vs. bow II ng green, stepa n center. 
2:30 pm--jung conference, "an informal afternoon of reflec­tions about jung", cce. 5 pm--vespers, log chapel. 
6:30 pm--film, "aulsha", lib. audt. 
7:30 pm--jung conference, "on myth & archetype by" by prof. campbell, wash hall. 8 pm--drama, "two gentlemen of verona" by national shakespeare co., GA $3.50, students, $2.50, o'laughlin audt., smc. 8 pm--play, "i do! I do!", $1, moreau hall, smc. 7,9,11 pm--film, "alice's restaurant", $1, eng. audt. 9 pm-1 am--party, "The Swinging 60's, $.50, stepan center. 
Sunday, April 6 
10 am--jung conference, "on the impllcc1tlons for the psychiatry of 2 modes of consciousness: left and right cerebral specialization" by dr. galln, wash. hall. 1:30pm--lacrosse, nd "a" team vs. mlch. st., stepan field. 
4:30 pm--vespers, log chapel. 4 pm--film & art lecture, robert indiana, Sga-$3, students-$1.50, o'laughlin audt. a pm--film. "the promised land", eng. audt., free. 8 pm--play, "I do! I do!", $1, moreau, little theater, smc. 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame Md St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor 59 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

Will explain selection procedure 2 fhe Observer Friday, April 4, 197J 
.------~~~~~ 

Telephones to aid in room picks 
by Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor 
The Room Selection Committee will conduct a telephone marathon next Monday through Thursday nights to answer any questions concerning the new room selection procedure that will be used within the next two weeks, according to St. Mary's Housing Director Nannette Blais. 
The schedule for the marathon is as follows: Monday, April 7 
6-8 p.m.: Pattie, 4228 or Terese, 4441 8-10 p.m.: Maureen, 4268 Tuesday, April 8 6-8 p.m.: Maureen, 4268, or Terese, 4441 
8-10 p.m.: Marianne, 5764 
9-10 p.m.: Marcia, 4531 Wednesday, April 9 6-8 p.m.: Judy, 4565, or Katie, 5465 . 
8-10 p.m.: Pattie, 4228 or Debbie, 5465 Thursday, April 10, Marcia, 4531 
Besides the marathons, the 
Room Selection Committee will 
conduct a metting for freshmen at 
4 p.m. next Wednesday in Carroll 
Hall to answer questions con­
cerning room selection. 
Room costs up 
In addition to a change in the rooi'n selection procedure, rates for rooms have increased by $50 per semester. Costs for a room on campus for next semester range from $275 for triples, quads, and quints without baths to $440 for a single with a full bath, explained the housing director. 
A full listing of room rates is 
posted in each of the residence 
halls, Blais said. 

At the time of the room freeze, 
!D's and roomdeposit receipts of 
all occupants of the room must be 
presented. she added. , 
Blais said that since the College 
allows _several groups during the 
summer to use the residence halls 
students who freeze their room~ 
cannot store their belongings in the 
rooms. 
"We <the college) are not held 
responsible for any loss on your 
articles stored in your rooms over 
the summer, so it is to your ad­
vantage to remove all belongings 
before you go home," stated the 
housing director. 
She noted that the cost of removing articles left in the room is deducted from the damage ~deposit already paid by the 
student. 
Class lotteries for those students 
not freezing their rooms will be 
held on April 16 for all classes. A 
stuaent drawing a lottery number 
for another must present that 
student's ID. "Contact persons" 
for those students abroad for the 
year may select a lottery number 
only if their name is on an 
au~horized contact student list, she 
said. -
Blais noted that each student 
must pay a $50 room deposit to 
participate in room selection. The 
deadline for the depbsit is Wed­
nesday, April 9, for juniors; 
Thursday, April 10, for 
sophomores; and Friday, Aprilll, 
for freshmen. 
FrPeze procedure 

On April 14, all students wishing 
to freeze their rooms for next year 
may do so, Blais continued. 
In order to freeze a room, all 
present occupants of that room 
must decide to freeze it, and the 
room must also be at full capactiy. 
Senior Class Fellow voting ends today 
East expert; Ara Parseghian,Voting for the Senior Class former Notre Dame footballl<,ellow will end Friday, April 4, coach; AI gondej, NO grad andaccording to Greg Ericksen, class fund raiser for world hunger; andpresident. The polls will be open at Gary Trudeau, cartoonist andboth the noon and dinner hours in creator of "Doonesbury" whichthe North and South dining halls appears daily in the Observer. Afor on-campus seniors. ·Off­more complete biography of each campus seniors can cast their candidate can be found in the April votes in LaFortune Student Center 3 edition of the Observer.
during the lunch hour on Friday. 

Ericksen also announced thatThe candidates being considered any junior who is intending to runfor the senior fellowship by the for Senior Class officer can pick up Class of '75 are: Shana Alexander, petition forms from the Om­editor for McCall's and budsman office either Friday,i'I:PwswePk; Jimmy Breslin, author Apnl 4, or Monday, April 7. Anyand literary critic; Jerry Garcia, further questions about the Senior lead guitarist of the Grateful Class elections should be directed
Dead; Michael Harrington, 

to Ericksen.
author; . James Kritzeck, Middle 

NOTHE B.>\I\IE STlJI)El\ I f'!'1/IOllol PRESENTS 

SANTANA'
. ­
IN CONCERT AN TOSTAL WEEKEND FRIDAY APRIL 18 
8:00P.M. 

NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC & .. CONVOCATION CENTER 
TICKETS NOW ON SALE 
AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET 
OFFICE & A.C.C. BOX OFFICE 
/ 

PRICES: 5.50, $4.50, $3.00 
Room selection will be made according to the priority of the number picked in the lottery, with num her 1 from each class receiving first pick of the rooms. 
Hoom picks April 21-24 
Next year's seniors will select their rooms on April 21, juniors on April 22, and sophomores, num­bers 1-150 on April 23, and numbers 151-300 on April 24. 
Blais stressed that all students wishing to share a room must present a room deposit receipt at the time of room selection. Unless this is done, room selection may not be made. 
"Contact persons" must also present a room deposit receipt for a student abroad, when selecting that student's room. she said. 
If a student does not present a room deposit receipt, has not made up her mind where she wants to live or does not appear on her given night for room selection, she cannot select room until all classes have completed selection, she said. 
Blais stated that any vacancies in a room created after room selection is completed, during the summer. or next year, will be filled by the Housing office. 
"If your roommate withdraws, no assurance can be given that the original room selected can be retained," she said. 
After the closing date of room selection on Thursday, April 24, students cannot make a room change, Blais concluded. 

PANEL DISCUSSION: 

CHRISTIAN AND GAY 
a discussion of homosexuality 
MORTON KELSEY 
and two discussants 
ApriI 8, 8:00 pm Library Auditorium 
SPONSORED BY CAMPUS MINISTRY 
STUDENTS 
EVERY 
MON. EVE. 7-9 PM LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 

Fran DeMarko 
Fran [)pl\Jarco SAYS IT IS A FACT: Til AT 
FACULTY 
[:VERY 
TUES. EVE. 7:30-9:30 LAFORTUNE 
BALLROOM 

.\J.L MAJOR l'1\I\'EHSITIES I;\;('Ll'DII\G Ol'H 
;\;OTHE DAME 
NOWOFFEH I;\;STHlTTION 11'1: TilE E\'EH-POPl'J.AH FOIUI:\L B:\I.LHOOl\IIMNCES INCLUDING 400 YEAR OLD EUROPEAN WALTZ 300 YEAR OLD CUBAN RHUMBAI 75 YI<:AR OLD ENGLISH FOXTROT 40 YEAR OLD AMERICAN ROCK'N'ROLL 20 YEAR OLD LATIN CHACHA PREPARE NOW FOR THE FORMAL DINNER-DANCE PARTIES IN THE MANY HAPPY YEARS AHEAD THE DAYS OF GO·GO WILL SOON BE GONE-GONE! ! LEARN FROM THE MOST KNOWLEDGEABLE INSTRUCTRESS OF BALLROOM DANCE IN THE NATION AT A FRACTION OF THE COST OF LESSONS "OFF-CAMPUS." ONLY 
EACH LESSON $2 EACH LESSON 
• ;_ F;riday, ADril 4, 1975 ·r.the o~serv,@r 
.. l 
_,'" 1• _--,.ter_. .· .-; # ­
• oJ 
< 

Thieu smashes coup attempt 
By JOSEPH GALLOWAY number of military officers had "The North Vietnamese ar­SAIGON CUPI> -The South been arrested. my ... can be defeated," said 
Vietnamese government said A!> the government reported Gen. Frederick Weyand, U.S. 
early Friday it had smashed a the coup attempt, President Army Chief of Staff. Ford sent 
plot by "short-sighted ele­Ford's envoy to South Vietnam Weyand to South Vietnam to 
ments" to overthrow President left for Washington, pledging assess the military situation. Nguyen Van Thieu and that a more U.S. aid. Weyand characterized the 
To fly orphans out 

Ford orders ships to stay 
SAN I>IEGO, CALIFORNIA, coming to the United States." Indicating apparent disapproval l'PI-President Ford today ordered "This is the least we can do, and of Saigon's recent military actions, all available U.S. Naval ships to we will do much, much more," Ford said a "unilateral decision" stand off Indochina to do Ford pledged. for a military withdrawal, made everything to assist refugees in the by Pre!lident Nguyen Van Thieu, "great human tragedy" in He said he remained optimistic created the chaos existing in South progress there. that South Vietnam would prevail Vietnam. 
He also ordered giant C5 tran­over the Communists, "despite the "There are several situations sports to fly to Saigon to pick up sad and tragic events that we see developing that got beyond the 2,000 South Vietnamese orphans unfolding." control of the South Vietnamese and children already adopted by He said "my whole people," Ford said, denying that American families. congressional life" was aimed at the South Vietnamese had lost 
Ford, at a news conference, said preventing a Communist takeover their will to resist. On the con­he had ordered the federal in South Vietnam and Cambodia, trary. he said, the way the people government to "cut red tape and and said "I will do my utmost as I are fleeing communist areas other bureaaucratic obstacles have done in the past to avoid that clearly indicates their will remains preventing thse children from result." (continued on page 141 
Chronology of Vietnam War 
1950 Ht'cem her--President Johnson 1972 Ma)·--President Harry S. Truman approves plan for air attacks on May--North Vietnamese capture United States help to North Vietnam. northernmost province of Qua:;g 
1!165 Tri. U.S. and South Vietnam call of October--Mass antiwar demon­Paris talks. President Nixon or­strations begin in United States; ders mining of Haiphong and six 1!154 U.S. force in Vietnam stands at other major North Vietnamese August--U.S. believes Geneva 148,300 troops. ports while offering to withdraw all greement provides "major l!llili American forces four months after rd stride for Communism" Dt•cember--Warsaw talks between ll.S. POWS released and in­President Dwight D. Polish and U.S. officials seeking to ternationally supervised cease-fire 
i':isenhower approves direct start p~ace talks break down when agreement reached. lannn•m,·c and military aid for ll.S. bombs Hanoi in mid­.Junt•--U.S. ground combat role South Vietnam. December; in effort to salvage ended; fewer than 60,000 advisors, 
1!15!1 talks. U.S. promises not to bomb techniciansand helicopter crews .July--First Americans killed in within 10 miles of North Viet­remain. President orders force cut Vietnam conflict when two namese capital. U.S. troop to 39,000 by Sept. 1. military advisors die in terrorist strength at 369,000. l!li:l attack on Bien Hoa air base near 1\lan·h--Last American troops
I!Hii
Saigon. leave March 29, officially ending
.\ugust--President Johnson an­
1!11i1 direct U.S. military role. U.S.
nounces increase in ceiling on U.S. 1\la~--Vice President Lyndon B. troop strength to-525,000; approves combat deathscounted ·at 46,009. Johnson visits South Vietnam with new bombing targets in North 1!17-t plt.>dge of continued aid. ll!'t't•mht>r--Four months of heavy
Vietnam. llt•t't'mbt'r--U.S. military forces in St•ptl·mbt•r--Nguyen van Thieu fighting results in government South Vietnam total 3,200 men. losing several military bases,
elected president. 
ahndful of district towns; Saigon

1!162 l!l6X 
military intelligence reports it

llt•t't>mhe•·--U.S. military force in :\lav--U.S. and North Vietnam 
captured document issued by

South Vietnam stands at 11,300 beg.in formal peace talks in Paris. 
mt'n. Communist command indicating 
1!16!1 
sharp increase in attacks within 
1!16:1 

.Jmw--President Nixon meets with 
next few months.

'\o,emht·•·--Diem overthrown in Thiet.i on Midway Island and an­
1!175

-litary coup; Diem and brother, 
nounces 25,000 American troops .Jan. 21--President Ford announces
:-Jgo Dinh Nhu. assassinated; Gen. will be withdrawn from South 
he will ask Congress to approve

Duong van Minh takes over Vietnam infirst scaledown of U.S. 
$:l0o million in additional aid for 

involveriwnt. 
South Vietnam.

1,000 :\o\ !'mh!'r--President Nixon an­i\lan·h :111--Quang Nam province nounces Vietnamization program 
with !>a Nang. secone biggest city 1!164 in South Vietnam and military
under which fighting will be turned ·\ugust--American destroyers over to South Vietnamese forces. command headquarters for South :'lladdox and C. Turner Joy report 1!1711 Vietnam's northern quarter, falls; thev attacked by North Viet­.lnnP-·U.S. troops withdrawn from civilians panic, U.S. emergency 
namese torpedo boats in Gulf of Cambodia after what President refugee air and sealift breaks ; five days later. Congress describes as successful operation. down in confusion. J;lsses--with only two negative St>nate repeals Tonkin Gulf .\pril--Tuyen Due province falls; i ott·s. both in Senate--Gulf of resolution and approves measure South Vietnamese SenatE· J'unKin resolution giving President barring future m11tiary operations unanimously passes resolution to "take all necessary in Cambodia or aid to Phnom Penh calling for change of leadership: 
Pasures to repel any armed without congressional approval. l'rPsident Thieu confers with l'.S. ttack against the forces of the 1!171 Arm v Chief of Staff Gen. 'nited States and to prevent :\m·t·mlwr--President orders troop Fredt·rick Wt•yand on evaluation 
further aggression." level cut to 139,0.00 Americans. mission for Presirie:1t Ford. 

loss of 60 per cent of South 
Most of the nation's generalsVietnam over the last three are known to blame Thieu for

weeks "A sound strategic the setbacks because he or­action" by the South Viet­dered the first government
namese army. 
retreats from the Central Reports of the coup attempt Highlands. followed incidents in which 
Weyand, in a departure

police fired over the heads of statement to newsmen at
Catholic demonstrators de­tightly guarded Tan Son Nhut
manding Thieu 's ouster. Thieu 
airbase, said he was leaving
has come under increasing "with great affection and'criticism for his country's 
respect for the people of Southbattlefield reversals. 
Vietnam and I assure them that 
Fighting slackened Thursday I will do all in my power to be with the North Vietnamese and of assistance to them." Viet Cong apparently con­
Weyand, dressed in his tan 

solidating the vast territorial 
uniform with four silver stars
gains of their offensive in which 
on each lapel, directly linked
they have swept down the coast South Vietr.amese and Ameri­againstvirtually no resistance. 
can interests. South Vietnamese troops with 
"The North Vietnamese are 

orders to shoot to kill turned 
attempting to destroy our back tens of thousands of 
morale and our confidence," he refugees trying to enter Saigon 
said. 
after days and weeks on the 
"We ourselves must have

road fleeing from Communist­faith in our strength and weheld provinces to the north. 
must keep our determination toRumors of an impending coup remain free and independent.
against Thieu ha-ve swept 
Saigon for than two "I believe that if we support
more weeks in light of the defeat of the people of South Vietnam the half the South Vietnamese way they deserve that no armed forces. 
enemy can ever defeat them." 
Junior Class 50's Record Hop 
Happy Hour at Kubiaks 
Friday afternoon 3:30-6:30 pitchers $1.50 
m~r atnlnnial 
lfanrnkr ~nust 
"Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
!$:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
;:;: 35 Varieties of Pancakes ;:;: ;{chicken -Steak -Sandwiches ;:;:f Friday Nites: Perch Dinners :~~~: :1::::::::::::::::::;;;;;;;;;;;;;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:: 
Yout" Host

U.S. 31 { Dixieway) North (Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards, NO '50 


Texas Instruments 
The World's Most Wanted Scientific Calculator 
OUR PRICE 
sgsao 
5 day Air Mail/ United 

Plt1s 56.50 fo1 local sales tax, <hip•>inq/!1Jndl iny chart!~>­
Parcel Service delivery 


Performs <1ll the functions of higher priced calculators and more for a lot less 
e if;Phr ,"1!C k·.·yb;J<li d • f.u . .:to~:,_.!-; • -iCC•H ~·:··/ iO 13 Slgntfrt 1'1i • logarithmiC, r,,nonometric, 
d-g:;; 

• scientifiC •Jo)!dtlull 
• pn·.·. :•: ~ • n~cha1 geahJ,, bdtter v ,u~:k e fOOt:. 
1 YEAR TEXAS INSTRUMENTS WARRANTY. 
S -~d. t•1 lti:-,..._1.,..·•·,~1( •"'11 ,.'rioi•r€'. (~ i J·•f.j"'),.· ~~Li·, _H ·v· :,tl't\lof)" lt~JJ"'n,-:> .1'\1.1:• • , 
'-f.~,; pi~-,... 5;·~iy,-~11(i..Yto•i·~'t!\c<'ci·:5t'~'rL ····'' < heo;...~~·o•nJ'}un"''-";'"""' .. o7iir,Jdti··t.~·s;~.-~ . .--:,~..~;.;: s~-t.,<:t,~·/rL;\/ ~,) · · 
---------~-----------------­
BOSTON TECHNICAL, INC. 
728 Dedham St.. Newton, Mass. 02159 Please s.h•P immediately vid Ai• mall/UPS _SR-50(s) Name ____ _ 
MASS FOLLOWED BY SUPPER • 
Address______ . 

NEW FRIENDS • AND OLD. 

the observer Friday, April 4, 1975 
Search going slowly 
Arts and Letters dean still being sought 
by Mary Reher College of Arts and Letters Council 
staff reporter had nominated people for teh 
committee last semester and voted 
for the candidates. The six peopleThe Search Committee for a new with the highest votes were electeddean of the College of Arts and to the committee.
Letters is still accepting and considering applications for the Since the formation of the position. committee last fall, "We have met 
Prof. Ronald Weber, committee at least once a week on an average member, confirmed the continuing of two hours," Fitzsimmons search yesterday afternoon. There stated. is no scheduled time for the During the first meetings, the committee to submit its report to committee discussed desirable Fr. James T. Burtchaell, qualities to look for in the ap­University provost, Weber noted. plicants. Candidates were in-
Members of the committee are terviewed to determine what kind 
Assistant Dean of Arts and Letters of administrator would be best­
Isabel Charles, committee suited for the position, Weber 
chairman; Fr. David Burrell, explained. The committee then 
chairman of the Theology Dept; submits to the Provost office their 
Prof. Thomas Werge, assoc. Prof recommendations of qualified 
of English; Pro£. Matthew Fitz-candidates. These candidates are 
simmons. prof. of History; Weber, then presented~ to the Universtiy 
Director of the American Studies President, who makes the final 
Program; and Mr. Mike Wahoske, decision. 
a senior government major. The There is no specified number of recommendations to be made, noted Weber, but it would most likely be more than one name. "The normal procedure would be three" Weber noted. 
"We have considered and in­terviewed non-Catholics as well as Catholics," Weber stated, "and we have considered the question of religion in our discussions. 
"We have interviewed both men and women for the position. We have made an effort to write to administrators asking them to recommend to us women who might be qualified" he added. 
"It is our hope to be done as soon as possible; we are later than we had expected to be right now," Weber said. "There is no way to hurry the search though, because it is a slow process," Weber noted. He cited the varying pace at which the applications come in and the problem of coordinating schedules for in­terviews as time consuming 
Ir~shWake, complete with beer, 1noved north into Michigan 
by John Kenward Staff Reporter 
Plans for the Irish Wake scheduled for April 19 will be completed in a few days, Irish Wake chairwomen Mary Anne Kennedy and Betsy Kall an­nounced last night. 
The Irish Wake, described by Kall as "a big beer blast that is supposed to be the one last party to end An Tostal," will tentatively run from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. 
During the planning which has been going on since January, the greatest probelm was finding a place to hold the Wake. 
"At one time we had planned to hold it in Stepan Center," said Kennedy, "featuring a 21-bar and beer garden inside a circus tent. But due to a liquor license problem, Dean Macheca told us we couldn't do it," she explained. 

The search for a suitable place to hold the expected great crowd then went into Michigan. 
"Michigan was the first place we tried before the Stepan Center idea," Kennedy pointed out. "When we decided to try again, we did so with the help of Dean Macheca and Arthur Pears. So far we can say that the Irish Wake will be held there, though exactly where in Michigan will not be conclusively decided upon for a day or two yet." 
Kennedy added, "We can say for sure that it will be set up in a park, under a circus tent the size of the North Dining Hall. Tomorrow we are going to check one out, but right now we cannot give an exact location." 
Commenting on the anticipated 
SMC Security breaks up an attempted robbery 
by Anna Monardo Staff Reporter 
Late Tuesday afternoon St. Mary's Security was called to the scene of an apparent robbery where two youths were attempting to start up a truck in the garage of the Central Utility Plant. 
A worker was making a routine check of the building, located behind the Convent, when he heard a truck being started. He entered the garage form an upper level and spotted the young men below on the lower level. The worker who remained unnoticed, called security. 
Security Officers McCormick 
and Derdak entered the building 
and saw the intruders attempting 
to start one of the trucks. The 
officers shouted for them to stop, 
whereupon the suspects ran out of 
an overhead garage 
through the brush toward the 
river· where they were unable to be 
apprehended. 
An investigation showed that drawers and lockers were opened, and some tools were thrown into waste paper baskets, perhaps in order to be transported easily, but nothing was stolen. A few windows were broken. but Security believes that entrace into the plant was made through a door which was . jimmied open. 
Anthony Kovatch, director of security, said that it is the opinion of the officers that the young men werefamiliar with the building. 
"They knew where to go and what they were looking for. They may have been frustrated workers who were trying to get back at their employer," Kovatch said. 

Details of the incident were released yesterday by Kovatch after an investigation was made on Wednesday to see if anything was missing from the buiding. 
numbers of Wake-goers, Kall stated, "At first our prime ob­jective was to try to get more than the 900 that came last year by abolishing the stipulation that only couples could attend. Then we decided to consider 1500 people coming, but soon came to the conclusion that we might as well plan on 2500 to 3000." 
Kall noted that to allow that many people to attend, buses would be provided as well as ample parking space. 
"We can think in such numbers because of the many who came to the North Quad Party--and that was dry," Kall added. 
With music to be provided for by the Chicago band "Pez Band", and, in the tradition of the old Irish wakes, a vast quantity of beer for all, tickets for this year's Irish Wake will go on sale Monday. 



LITTLE MEXICO 
TACOS Q 
Homemade 
tCHILl .­Delicious .­CONEY DOGS, Mexican Style · SPAGHml • 
(CARRY-OUT 217·10311 
Ullliinaj ltt6, lelllllll Ia lZ-1, Tti·T' 11-lUI.Ii.·~·ll·lZ 

processes, as:factors slowing down fewer number of people considered the search team. for the position. Fitzsimmons said, "This is my In regard to what procedures most time consuming job this year. would be taken if the Search I served on the Search Committee Committee failed to come up with for a new dean five or six years a list of recommendations by the ago, and it didn't take this long." fall, Weber said, "That is a matter Fitzsimmons attributed this to the we simply don't know." 

ADDER & TYPEWRITER 
an expert technician will 
AIR CLEAN, Oil AND ADJUST 
any portable machine 
Extra charge for for only major repairs and $1QOO 
new ribbons · No Junkers Please! with this 
coupon. South Bend Office Products 2624 S. Michigan Street. 

IINAZZ REOPENS I I 
FRIDAY 10 pm -1 am SATURDAY 10-1 "JAZZ AT THE NAZZ" WEDNESDAY 10 pm 
COME AND PREPARE FOR CJF (COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL) 
It Happened 
Clark Gable One Night c·laudette Colbert 
Tuesday and Wednesday 

EngineeringAud. 
Admission is $1.00 
Cinema 75 patrons free 


• ~ ' .t I ' •
. j. : .' .~ . ·~:'';. .•' .. ,I I •':' ­
Friday, April 4, 1975 the observer 
5 

InPIRG launches support drive 
by Marjorie lrr 
Staff Reporter 

"Solid student body support is the key factor in getting InPIRG working at St. Mary's," said Mark Clark at an organizational meeting for an Indiana Public Interest Research Group-SMC Chapter, last night at the Science Hall. The purposes, procedures and achievements of the corporation and plans for the lnPIRG support drive at SMC, which is scheduled to begin on Monday, were also discussed. 
Dame last fall and has been suc­cessful on several of its un­dertakings. 
InPIRG, a non-profit cor­poration, is controlled by a student board of directors is responsible for hiring a full-time staff of professionals, including lawyers, economists and organizers to work on the issues directed to them by the students. 
On the local level, students of the college elect a local board, which is responsible for operations on campus and recruiting of student 

organizational meeting. 
Clark, a Notre Dame senior, who served on the InPIRG board at Notre Dame, explained that lnPIRG is a statewide organization that works on issues that the students wish to see in­vestigated and ·changed, such as consumer protection, fair housing practices and sex descrimination. Achapter was established at Notre workers for various projects. 
Organization of a St. Mary's chapter of lnPIRG must first meet approval of a majority of students, administrators and faculty. Continued support by at least 60 per cent and hopefully 75 per cent of the college community will be necessary for establishement of the chapter. "First we need in­terested students to organize the 
drive for support," said Clark. 
"The organizers will be respon­sible for informing other students about the workings of lnPIRG and explaining the benefits of the cor­porations as they relate to the student," he stated. "InPIRG will also help to circulate petitions of support and get others interested in the organizational work," Clark 
noted. The faculty will be 
similarly petitioned. 
Financing explained 
InPIRG is not funded by any agency or foundation. In order to maintain its independent position and work efficiently, it is depen­dent upon funding by the students of the colleges and universities it works for. By signing a petition, students agree to contribute $4.00 per year to finance the professional staff and project expenses. The contribution will be added to the Student Government fee to be paid along with college tuition. If a student chooses to to support InPIRG and does not sign a petition, the $4.00 will be credited to her account and deducted from the next bill. Clark stressed that support is needed from the seniors, even though they will be leaving, in order to get the chapter organized. 
Students attending the meeting questioned Clark on exactly what InPIRG could do forthemand what types of problems would be han­dled. It was agreed that support would be given only if students could be sure that it would work. Clark cited the Notre Dame chapter's survey and comparative study of various local banks and their checking account policies as 

Rice parallels abortion decision to Nazi exter:mination principle 
<continued from page I) 
have attended if it had been opened 
to the public and the press. The 
poarticipants were free to listen, 
learn. and gain insights into the 
controversy. 
"As a lawyer I was interested in 
examing the social science point of 
view in order to gain insight intu 
pro-abortion argument," he 
remakred. 
Rice. however, disagreed with his collegue on the benefit of the conference. Having paralleled the abortion decision to the same prmciple which guided the Nazi extermination of the Jews, he wondered if anything would have been gained if a panel of experts had gathered in 1945 to discuss the subject of the killing of Jewish people in the same manner as abortion was discussed at the conference. 
"Keep in mind that precisely the same principle underlies the 
~BUUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIII!I,
Shaffer, on the other hand, beheved that the possibility of good arising from a discussion between the bipolar sides still 
I STUDENT UNION PRESENTS ; existed, that the meeting on neutral territory was at least the 5 = hasis for mutual understanding = = a good example of InPIRG's work. room 202. at
on Sunday eveningStudents then volunteered topics, 6:30. All students who are in­

such as bookstore prices and a terested in working to bringcomparative study in various InPIRG St. are
to Mary's en­colleges of food service quality, as couraged to attend. All aspects of possible areas of investigation. 

the corporation will be discussed. A final organizational meeting For further information, contact 
will be held in the Science Hall, Debbie Hale at 4894. 
PARTNERS-RAINBOW & WINDY CITY PRODUCTIONS PRESENT 




AMERICA 
IN CONCERT 
THURSDAY APRIL 24 
8:00P.M. 
NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC & CONVOCATION CENTER 
TICKETS: $6.00 and $5.00 NOW ON SALE AT THE A.C.C., N.D. STUDENT UNION, ST. JOE BANK & BRANCHES, FIRST BANK (MAIN OFFICE), ROBERTSON'S, AND THE ELKHART TRUTH. 
----------------,
THIS SUNDAY NIGHT APRIL 6 -lSI · N.D. & S.M.C. NIGHT AT SHULA'S'
1

1NO COVER CHARGE WITH THISAI:I 
I I 
I NOW APPEARING I I RlDGE ROAD I 1
II 1 1 I 
1 A N D I 
1 I 
1 l 15 T E N I
1 I 
~ 
.1 II 
J1 1 
I '(JI I • n c/t,·~ I I 
_)1z u ta j i1e lt"" b 
;1 NO COVER CHARGE TUES·WED·THURS ••
1

.I onUS. 31 Ntwten lliiH. So B•i-Fr.. l'arkin&·613-4350 I 
'I I 
1 I 
1 I 
•------------------------~ 

ALICE'S RESTAURANT
BACK TO SPRING FLING 
Friday, ApriI 4, 1975 
FRIDAY 
9 PM 1 AM 
I APRIL 4 

Refreshments Also SO's Music 
I
I 7, 9, 11 pm
Stepan Center 
i
=
MUSIC BY WIND 
I 

STARRING: ARLO GUTHRIE 
$1.00 
'~ENGINEERINGi 
4 AUDITORIUM! 
-~ 
! 
I5 

Admission $.75 
~IIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIUUIIIUIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIWIIIIIIIIIIUIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII-QPZIIrr Ill!~ 
. 'l 
~ ' .. 
,.r.:•. 
1" 

depersonalization and killing of both minontles, Jews and children in 
the womb. The assembled experts 
would discuss, in a scholarly 
manner, the pros and cons of ex­
terminating unwanted non­
Arvans," Rice continued. 
The hypothetical Jewish 
problem Convention would 
"generate the conviction that there 
is, after all, something to be said 
for both sides, that the legitimicy 
of legalized .Jew-killing is a 
question that is open to 
reasonable differences of opinion 
among men of good will," he 
concluded. 

Sought mutual undf·rstanding 
and the possibility of a final
resolvement. 
"If a similar discussion had been held regarding the extermination of the Jews it might have brought the sides together. Who knows 
what good could have come from itry" he asked. 
Shaffer revealed that the results of the abortion conference will be published. He affirmed that when the text of this conference on abortion is published it will make 
public the scholarly attempt to 
come to terms with the con­troversial issue of abortion and will show that Notre Dame has indeed taken a step towards 
lead~rship. 
\.____~_­

seriausly! falks Dundee's Rebate 
~~-­AI  ~~~.~~T!!!!!!!!he~O~b~se!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!r!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!ve!!!!!!!l!!!!!!!r!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ ~ r an independentsrodentnewspoper Founded November 3, 1%6 Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief Bob Zocas Business Manaller Bob McManus Advertisinc Manager EDITORIAL BOARD Rutherford, Managing Editor; Fred Graver, Executive Editor; Jim Eder, Editorial Editor KPn Girouard, News Editor; Pat Hanifin, Campus Editor; Mary Janca. St. Mary's fditor K<'n Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; TomO'Neil. Features Editor Chris Smith, Photo Editor Editori~ls: 283~1 N~ws: 283-1715 Busin~n: 283-7471  
Friday, April 4, 1975  

Student Activities.
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ art bu c hwaId At all Sunday Masses in Sacred Heart Church collections are 
WASHHINGTON--The day Malcolm Dundee's $200 income tax rebate was scheduled t.o arrive, a large crowd gathered on his lawn. Word had gotten out that Dundee was to be the first person in Clarion Falls to get the rebate, and the town was full of excitement. !lis congressman, Jeremiah Lowball, had flown in from Washington for the occasion, the Clarion Falls lligh School Band had suited up in their blue-and-gold uniforms and a television crew from Grimstead had set up their cameras to record the historic event. 
Dundee had made his children get dressed up in their Sunday clothes, and he and Mrs. Dundee stood ner­\·ously on their porch awaiting the arrival of their ('heck. 
· 'llt•re it comes!" someone shouted as the mail truck drove into view. 
It stopped at the curb and the mailman got out' holding the familiar brown government envelope with the green check peeking through the cellophane window. 
ATV correspondent pushed a microphone in front of the mailman's face and he said, looking into the camera. "Neither snow. nor sleet, nor heat of day would stop me from delivering this tax rebate to 1\lalcolm Dundee of 110 West Zitherford Drive." 
The crowd broke into a cheer and the band struck up "PPnnies From Heaven." "Give him rO"om." someone yelled, "to deliver the check." The mob reluctantly opened up a path on the sidewalk. 
Dundee was beaming. and his wife squeezed his hand. "Did you ever think we'd see the day," she whispered to him. "when we'd get a tax rebate?" 
"I dreamed about it." Dundee whispered back, "but I never thought it would happen." 
The mailman walked slowly up the walk as Dundee waited. hand outstretched. Suddenly from out of the crowd a man jumped for­ward and grabbed the check. 
"Hey. what are you doing?" ,the mailman said. 
"This check belongs to me," the man said. 
"Who are you?" 

''I'm from the electric company. We've just raised our rates and the $200 check should cover it." 
Another man grabbed part of the check from the t>lectric company representative. "Well, I'm from the telephone company and this check belongs to us." 
"Be careful." Dundee cried, "you'll tear it." A third man joined the melee and grabbed the en­\·elope. "I'm from the bank. Dundee owes this for interest on a loan we made to him to pay his income taxes." 
A fourth man pushed the banker away. "Not so fast. I'm from the county real estate tax assessor's office and this check must go for the surcharge we put on Dundee's house." 
"Over my dead body," said another man. "I'm from the state income tax bureau. We have a lien on all tax rebates Dundee gets from the federal government." 
The men were now rolling on the ground trying to get their hands on the brown envelope. . 
They were joined by a collector from Group Health, the gas man. a water inspector and a lawyer who helped fill out Dundee's tax return. 
In no time at all the check was in shreds. Mrs. Dundee was in tears. "Congressman, can't you do something?'' Dundee said. 
"IT'S OllT OJ<' MY HANDS," Lowball said. "We \·oted you a rebate to spur the economy but we can't tell you how to spend it."· 
Dpinian 

Loneliness 
~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii----fr. biII t a a h e y 
"What's your major?" "Loneliness," came the reply. The one who said it was only half kidding. There is a lot of loneliness around; a lot of pressures and tensions; countless people fee lin' down. 
I've felt it, off and on, all through my life, as I suppose is true for you. I felt it as a boy, because I had no brothers or sisters. Both my parents were the eldest of large, poor families, and had to postpone marriage to help support their brothers and sisters. As a result. by the time they got around to marrying, they didn't know if they could have even one child. Anyway. I used to feel great loneliness, as I struggled through large chunks of time with no one to play with. 
I felt loneliness as a teenager, when friends laughed at me on those occasions I would come to school sporting a new, ripe pimple. 
I felt it in college--as a matter of fact. the very first weekend I was here. In those days, we used to have "Tea Dances" at St. Mary's on Sunday afternoons. The first one of the new semester was ex­tremely important: the odds were so bad that if you didn't make some contacts then, you could bomb out for the whole semester. Well, it was a hot September day; unknown to me, my mother had mistakenly used sour starch on the shirts I had brought with me to school. You can imagine what I smelled like when the heat started to do its work-1 was a walking commentary on Martha's remark about her brother Lazarus in the tomb. I was so embarrassed I sat outside LeMans Hall by myself while my buddies were having all 

the tun. I felt loneliness, too, in the Marines; especially when 
stationed on desolate, remote Parris Island. I had tried so much in life, without real satisfaction, and I wondered if I would ever find meaning and fulfillment. And today I still feel it; at busy times and quiet times; when I'm alone or when someone snubs me or ignores my greeting. 
Loneliness, experts tell us, is the most universal source of human suffering in our society. Psychiatry and clinical psychology speak about it as the most ex­pressed complaint and the cause, not only of an increasing amount of suicides. but also of alcoholism, drug use, different psychosomatic troubles and a large number of traffic accidents. 
WJ:!en you and I are lonely, it is most likely because we suspect that there is no one who cares and offers love without conditions, and no place where we can be vulnerable without being hurt. 
Dutch psychologist, Henri Nouwen. has written wisely about this. He suggests that the secret is to convert loneliness into solitude. That is, instead of running away from my loneliness and trying to forget or deny it, I need to enter into the desert of my loneliness and to change it by gentle but persistent efforts into a garden of solitude. It will be hard to believe that our loneliness is hiding unknown beauty; but it does, like the desolate desert yielding end­less varieties of flowers. 
The key is this: instead of running away from loneliness in a frantic, feverish i!ffort to kill the pain, one should be quiet and silent and listen attentively to his own struggle. The answer is frequently hidden there. Riesman was right: there is such a thing as the "lonely crowd." There is a great dif­ference between "alone" and "lonely." Being alone doesn't necessarily mean being lonely; on the other hand, being in a crowd <not alone> doesn't save us from loneliness. 
We can be lonely in the middle of Times Square, or the Notre Dame stadium. or the most crowded cocktail party--we surely all know this by now. But we should also know that there is the possibility of befriending that moment of loneliness; of letting it make us aware of our need, conscious and open to the full dimensions of our present moment. In the midst of great activity, and through those times of bting alone, we are called to become aware and consciOus of total reality--"I am not really alone, I am loved and cared for. I am meant to live forever. I have a Father who never turns away from me, who can never change His love for me, who simply waits for me to have the good sense to consent to His gracing me with His love." 
This, for us,is listening to the word of God. This is full awareness of what is. It is like Jesus, who, according to his critics, wasted so much time, reflecting on his experiences, searching for insight, discovering more clearly his Father's love for him and the way He wanted him to walk ... who, when most alone and lonely <on that cross), reached out in solitude, in faithful surrender: "Into your hands I commend my spirit." And being willing to do that, he found Resurrection--the greatest fulfillment of ~ll! 

Dpi"ian~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Notre Dame, Where Are You Going? 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.. ja e c a r para 
About a week ago in one of my classes a fellow student stated htat the University is unfair in not allowing a pro-abortion group to exist here on campus. This is entirely untrue. If one wanted to exist, the University would have no objection. If it were not for about fifteen students and faculty members on this campus and our neighboring campus of St. Mary's, a Right to Life chapter would not exist here. 
Hight to Life receives no University recognition, no money from Student Government, no help or support from Campus Ministry. Yes. Right to Life did receive a token $50.00 or so from the office of 
taken ''for those student organizations helping the needy and af­
flicted in ourcommunity."Right to Life endeavors to help the most 
innocent and unprotected of all and receives nothing. Funds could 
be utilized to bring in well-known speakers to educate the com­
munity to the horrifying reality of abortion. 
Campus Ministry does not like Right to Life literature and claims that it will get nowhere by showing pictures of aborted children, because peoples' emotions are being played upon. Yet, when you walk by their picture window in the Library you might see pictures or cartoons of starving people which also play on peoples' Pmotions. 
I asked once to put a pro-life cartoon in the window. To my knowledge it was never up, but if it was, it lasted all of a couple hours. Campus Ministry was not involved in the Mass for Right to Life on January 22, 1975. As a Campus Ministry office they have not given the support and recognition to the Right to Life movement that a Campus Ministry office on a Catholic campus should. Over the Easter break in speaking with friends I found out how active the Campus Ministries on secular college campuses were in Right to Life. 
People here seem to jump on the gandwagon and attack that which is popular to attack--e.g. World Hunger <I am not knocking the World Hunger movement because I wholeheartedly support itl. But abortion--an even worse injustice--is not a "popular" issue and therefore many people give no support to this movement. 
The second point of this column concerns a conference held here on the University of Notre Dame campus. On March 19-21 while most of us were preparing to go home for Easter break, the llniversity hosted a conference entitled "Abortion: Public Policy and Morality." Various people from all over the country with "differing normative commitments" were invited to participate in the "dosed scholarly conference." 
It is interesting to note that the conference was closed to the public and kept so very quiet and secretive. When I spoke to Dr. William Liu. the director of the-University's Center for the Study of 1\lan in Contemporary Society, who was the director of the con­fPrPnce. he wanted to know my name. rank and serial number and then he would not reveal anything about the con­ft•rence. 
The president of the St. Joseph County Right to Life· Chapter, Pat ('ahill. spoke with Professor Edward Manier. one of the planners, about a week before the conference to ask if a certain person was to attt•nd. and Prof. Manier said he had no idea of the conference. Why all this secrecy? Perhaps for a political reason or so that the l1niversity could receive a grant: 
It was terribly wrong. an injustice to the Unborn Child for such a ('Onference to be held on Our Lady's campus. It is a terrible wrong hPcause by hosting this conference. the University affirms that there is something disputable about abortion; i.e. that something l'an Jpgitimately be said in favor of the legalization of the killing· of unborn babies. This is absolutely indefensible for a University that daims the name Catholic. 
Two yPars ·ago under the direction of Rev. James T. Burtchaell, ('.S.C .. the llniversity set up r.o.U.P. <Committee of University Priorities l. Among its many conclusions and findings was that the most important factor of Notre Dame is its Catholic character. This being true. the hosting of such a conference is a total con­tradiction. 
In a day and age where leadership is oftentimes lacking, the l'niversity of Notre Dame must provide leadership. The Univer­sity must make the same commitment to the civil right to life 1t'veryone 's first right 1 that it has made so well to the civil rights of minorities. 1\lany. many Americans look to Notre Dame, and these pPople are being deprived of the leadership that Notre Dame can and must be giving. Notre Dame has not fulfilled the total capacity of leadership that she should. 
Finally. it should be pointed out that the problem does not arise from any personal sympathy of the University officers for abortion. 
Hatht•r the problem arises because the University as an institution and· seeker of the Truth doesn't seem to be able to comprehend that abortion is killing and is irrevocably and indisputably wrong, and that the only course to take is to make a total commitment to the right to life. lean only hope and pray that the University of Notre llamedu Lac will soon be a real witness to the fact that all human la•ings--born and unborn--have an indisputable God-given right to JifP. 
L{I);SII)[R lriE 'J:: ;Ll Of DANANG T0 

BE AG?.EAT --.... HUMAN ~ 



~......."" 
7 

Letters to a Lonely Go 



on priests who dine alone 
reverend robert griffin 

Last evening, a priest, tailored in black and clerically collared in the white linen of the clergy of Rome, came into a restaurant in the airport at Dayton, Ohio, and dined by himself. He sat alone at a table; he spoke to no one but the waitress, and no one spoke to him. He ordered a simple meal of steak and baked potato, with coffee and a salad. When the check was presented, he charged it on a credit card. and then left. I, who was watching him nearly the whole time, thought to myself: "How very lonely a priest seems, dining by himself." I thought of rectories, which are never really homes, and the impersonal rectory meals, where the desserts always seem to be ice cream, served with a small plate of store-bought cookies, when you really needed a cake or a pudding, to show that someone had bothered. I thought of the priest on duty, alone in his room at night, with his books and his television set, waiting for the phone to ring with news of sickness or accidents which might require an exercise of ministry. Of course most evenings the phone doesn't ring, for which the priest is duly grateful; or at least the calls are merely social. The priest wonders: "Why must I be on guard like this, fearing that the phone will ring, and I won't hear it; or nervous that the ringing will bother the pastor. who will suspect that his curate is being unfaithful to his ordained duty as a minister of the night?" 
People who share restaurants with priests who dine alone may think of those clerics as men of mystery with mystical com­munings; but the laity, too, I think are able to sniff the bone-numbing loneliness of the ordained life. But you have to be a priest, I think, to realize how cheerlessly com­fortable a rectory can be, as though one slept in a motel room he could never own and never completely personalize, no matter how much dirty linen is stuffed in the bottom of a closet. 
I said to the friends with whom I was dining: "What a lonely figure a priest makes, when he is seen dining alone." They all quickly agreed that a clerical figure do­ing a solo flight with the juices of a filet mignon is really one of the more pathetic sights of a Christian civilization. We were 


two gentlemen of verona 
Glee Club people, you see, dining in the airport restaurant in Dayton, Ohio, after our flight was re-routed to an alternate haven when snow had prevented our landing in Chicago. We had just come from the El Dorados of the West: the gleaming casinos of Las Vegas and the land where the lotus­eaters dream in Southern California. I wanted to feel myself fully emancipated from the servitude of rectories, or detached from the life of the priest who dines alone, dressed in the black, funereal draperies picked out at the clothing rack of Mont­
gomery Ward. I wanted to think ob­jectively. but with pity, of the poor devil of a chap at the next table. "His business is encyclicals," I tried thinking to myself, "like llumanae Vitae; my life is Broadway, at least in summer. I'm just a Broadway priest, with the world on my mind and contacts in California." 
The truth is, of course, I am not a Broadway priest, and my contacts in California are mostly memories of riding the cable cars in San Francisco. The world is not on my mind in the sense of my needing to be its lover; and though I am more at home in New York or Notre Dame than any other place, I am always restless with a sense of never really belonging anywhere, as though all the world were a rectory with rooms I can never own. 
I get upset at the sight of a cleric dining alone in his regimentals. I grow un­comfortable because I know that inside, the priest is feeling the loneliness too; and that he, if he is like me, feels just as sorry for himself as the audience gawking at him from the next table --though not always, for sometimes a person needs to be alone, at least for a little while. Last night, as I dined with my Glee Club friends, I fervently wished that there were no ascetic figure charging steaks on credit cards capturing the corner of my eye, reminding me of the loneliness I was ordained into. I don't like rootlessness; but then, no one else likes it either. and everyone shares in it sometimes. 
But priests (and nuns and brothers), when they are identifiable, become such con­science-smiting symbols of loneliness, if you know them. At least, they smite my con-
The Company's list of performance credits includes twelve of Shakespeare's major plays, as well as T.S. Eliot's Murder in the Cathedral, Yeats' translation of Sophocles' Oedipus Rex, and Moliere's School for Wives. 
Each season, the company tours the United States for nine months with three plays in repertoire. The production to be seen here, The Two Gentlemen of Verona, will be directed by Mario Siletti, who has worked with the NSC on four previous plays. 
Siletti has taught at the Stella Adler Studio in New York, the Odeon Theatre in Paris, and the London Theatre School. His ex­perience includes working on several off­Broadway productions and directing the Metropolitan Opera Studio's productions of Harbar of Se\'ille. Madame Butterfly, and Birthday of the Infanta. 
In formulating their staging of Shakespeare, the directors of the NSC begin with the premise that the audience must understand the play they are seeing. Since the Elizabethan language sometimes poses a barrier to this understanding, the Com­pany tries to compensate for this by the stage action in the plays. 
Meister, the founder of NSC, sees the primary purpose of the Company as being two-fold: "To bring the beauty and truth of Shakespeare to young people who otherwise would never see his plays done professionally, and to give American actors an opportunity to perform the classics." Shakespeare's lively comedy-farce should be an excellent showcase ofr the talent and experience the members of the Company bring with them, and a fine opportunity for a night of pleasurable entertainment. 
Tickets for The Two Gentlemen of \'erona, sponsored by the CAC's Dance and Drama Series, will be $2.50 for students and faculty and $3.50 for the general public. 
science, and I know them, and I love them, and I share with them a hunger of flesh and heart that sacraments and the Paraclete were never intended to satisfy. 
Having come, then, from the razzle-dazzle of adventure in the West; from the beauty of suns setting in the Pacific and rising over deserts, and of moons hanging over the tips of mountains, and stars twinkling in the night sky as though Tiffany's were hawking its diamonds in heaven; from Disneyland, Reno, Vegas, Denver, Phoenix, Tahoe, a~d the City by the Bay; having been wtth Beautiful People <I hate the phrase, but it tells you who I mean): with old Grads and recent Grads; with old friends and with new; and best of all, having been with the Glee Club, and everywhere and always enjoying the people; but knowing that none of the places were yours, and none of the people belonged to you, not even the Glee Club, as much as you love them; not just because you can't sing, but especially because you can never be their age again, nor do you want to be, so that when you are with them, you are always the creature of middle age observing the frolics of youth. You wouldn't want to lose a minute of the oceans, the mountains, and the desert, and your hours with the Glee Club will always be among the most cherishable moments of a cherished lifetime. Yet, among all the goodness and beauty of people and places, you are still the stranger, the wanderer, the gypsy; the funny man with turned around collar, dining alone in a black suit. 
And then, at the end of a day, at the end of a journey, when the adventure in the West is ending, and you are sitting with friends at the airport, hating the rootlessness of worlds that come together for a little while, then break up again; thinking of people you would like to keep, but know you must lose. Suddenly, you spy another funnyman with turned around collar, dining alone in black. You realize it is you, and you resent the sight of him. 
But there is a final moment of journey's end. You have travelled the storm-troubled distance from Dayton to South Bend in a twenty year old bus, and last goodbyes are being said, and you feel shabby, even in your priesthood. You wonder vaguely what you're doing there, and a Senior Glee Clubber says: "Thanks, Griff, for being there with us," and you know he means it. 
It is silly, isn't it, how a phrase can reverse a mood, or give you a dignity you had lost sight of. You realize that your "being there" was important to somebody; being with someone was important to them. You think to yourself of all the other times people have ever thanked you: it was always, in one way or another, for "being there"; for being with people who needed you, or thought th~y might. The ap­preciation was not because you were wise, or witty, or the best dancer on the floor. There is little I can give people, I think. except my love, concern, and caring. But to someone who is lonely, afraid, unsure of himself, or defeated, or fears he may be unhappy in one of these ways; or even for someone who is rejoicing or on holiday, your presence, physical and immediate, may be a sharing of self that makes the world a different kind of place. Your home and the end of your rootlessness consist in finding a place where you comfortably belong. You never belong anywhere more than you belong to those times of life when you are needed as somebody's friend. 
Tomorrow, in Sacred Heart Church, there are young men being ordained to the priesthood. If they are as wise as I think they are, they already know a great deal about loneliness. I hope none of them ever dines alone in a restaurant in a black suit, unless he wants to. But if they ever misunderstand the aloneness that comes with the blacK suit, I hope that someone­someone, if they are lucky, from the Notre Dame Glee Club; I never said I didn't love the Glee Club--says: "Thanks for being there with us." From the warmth of those words, they may reflect again on a lesson they all know well: that the clerical availability that leaves them alone at dinner is the same kind of availability that allows them to be helpful to glee clubs and other needy types for whom their being there, at times, is all the comfort those needy types have to take the place of God, Whom tem­porarily they have misplaced. 
TV Highlights 
Tonight 
10:30 
34 Rebroadcast of Presidential Address 

10:30 
16 Tonight Show with Bea Arthur, Bob Uecker 

10:30 
46 Movie: "Don't Go Near the· Water," Glenn Ford 


Saturday Noon 16 East-West Basketball, All Star 
8:00 16 Movie: Neil Simon's "Barefoot in the Park," Robert Redford, Jane Fonda 
Sunday Noon 22 NBA Basketball: Braves vs. Knicks 
2:30 22 NBA Basketball: Cavaliers vs. Kings 
6:30 28 Jacques Cousteau's "Sleeping 
Sharks of Yucatan. 7:30 
28 Movie: "Man in the Wilder­ness." Richard Harris 

9:00 16 NBC News Special on the IRS 
Monday 
7: oo 16 Sandburg s Lincoln -Drama starring Hal Holbrook 
8:00 16 Movie: "What's the Matter w1th Helen?", Shelly Winters, Debbie Reynolds. From the people who brought you "Hush, Hush, Sweet Charlotte" 
Tuesday 
9:00 16 The Academy Awards 
9: 00 22 CBS News Special: "lndochinJI · 1975-The End of the Road?" 
Friday 
8:00 22 Movie: "Kate McShane", A.­Meara plays the serloua role ol a "warm hearted Irish lawyer"! 
The ND-SMC community will have the opportunity to see what should be a polished, professional theatrical production when The National Shakespeare Company presents The Two Gentlemen of Verona this Saturday night, April 5, at 8:00p.m. in St. Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Founded in 1963 by Philip Meister, a theatre veteran of 25 years, the Company arose out of a request Meister received to present an anthology show to the students of an eastern college. With an initial in­vestment of $15, Meister organized a company which has grown into a New York· based non-profit organizaiton performing for college audiences of 250,000 each season. 



,.,---·~-----------------------.~·~-:.:::~:.::.:-..=,~=-~--·~....----· 
'

I I I I I 
I
I I I I I I I I I I 
II 
I 
I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
iI 
; 
\ 
CHECK OUT THESE 
--------------------~ 

A to Z AUTO PARTS 18260 ST. RD. 23 N.E. 272-9560 
SHOCK SPECIAL MONROE GRIPPER SHOCKS 
REG. $15.95 pr. 
NOW $11.00 pr. 
WITH THIS COUPON 


~------------------~ 

We've just received a limited 
quantity of this fact~filled, useful 
guide. It's packed with information 
on how to get more out of your 
travels. Come in today, and pick 
up your free copy! 





DATSUN 
FROM NISSAN WITH PRIDE 
~------------------~ 


SPRING 
EUROPEAN AUTO on U.S. 31, NILES TUNE-UP SPECIAL FOR PORSCHES 
FREE CAN OF CLASSIC CAR WAX 
WITH EVERY TUNE-UP  
684­ AlSO SERVICE  
2152  SOME BMW'S_;  
SPECIAL GOOD  2 MI. N. OF  
THRU APRIL  STATE LINE  

CHICAGO AUTO RADIATOR CO.
~ 

1136 MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BEND 
WE DO AIR CONDITIONING ALSO GAS TANK REPAIR 
PHONE: 289-5850 
(IT'S HERE) 
MERCURY 


&Ocat 
2 New Small Cars You Can 

SPECIAL 
DIGGif 
BODY Sl 24788 u.s 
AUTO BC REPAll 
AMERICAN~ FOREIGN c~ REPAIREJ 
•TOWING 

• FRAME W~ 
• 
FRONT END J 

•COMPLETEL
Y FAST DEPENDAE 


SE 232-2176 or 2~ 

HERE IS YOUR REASON TO 

Qnly$2666 
• 
REAR WINDOW DE-ICER • RECLININ( 

• 
FRONT WHEEL DRIVE • FLOW-THR, 

• 
FRONT DISC BRAKES • RACK AND 

• 
RADIAL PlY TIRES • PLUS ,\lA~ 

• 
All VINYL INTERIOR EQUIP\IEN" 


MICHIANA IMPORTS 

217 Snulh L1f.tyt>IIC.' Hhd. 310 l>i\it•w.l~ Nmlh J ~uulh &•nd, lndi.m.l Ru'>t'l.md. lndiJil.l & Phune: 21-l·bO".i I Phmlt'. 271-«l7HO 
•. 0 I --------------------------------------------------· 
-------------------------------------------,....-.r':~l
'\: 

. ~~!'"'iilllllr'-'~ :'111'-'I!!'J;:jJ;'-' ,~ ...--. "'!IlL~ 
• '· ""=~ . --fijJI."~.;~.'lo-if-f'.".MI ____l'WI11i111!9~ ~}" ~ 


_____.._...._:...---'1:-:rllliii::---------------------------....\ 

I I I 
~I 

~----------------------~1 
~s 
iOP 
. 20 
)DY 
~ 
:ALL 
~RS 
) 
)RK 
~LIGN. 
INSUR. 
tE 
~VICE 
9-2214 

~UY NOW. 
: MJnuf.icturers suggrsted POE 
•price. ~les ux, licen~ fHS, 
) registution, inli!nd freight and df'ilrr preparation additional. 
BUCKET SEATS IUGH VENTILATION PINION STEERING 
MORE STANDARD 
FEATURES 
liiDD 

AM/FM STEREO 8 TRACK $99.95 plus SPEAKERS & INSTALLATION 1335 LWE MISHAWAKA 255-6434 LARRY'S AUTO RADIO SPECIALISTS 

..: KAWASAKI SALES AND 

, SERVICE 
.. , ,~·# 10% DISCOUNT ON PARTS & SERVICE WITH NOTRE DAME I.D. 
SERVICES AND ACCESSORIES FOR ALL MAJOR BRANDS . PECIALS:GENUINE SUEDE JACKET $39.95 SPARK PLUGS-50¢ HELMETS-$8.88 
175 cc REG. $940 SALE PRICE $820 TIL APRIL 1 1 th 
50625 US 31 NORTH. SOUTH B..;;.EN-D,_272_'-G21t
... .. 

----Just South Of State u.._ 



BRIGGS OLDS­CADILLAC 
2706 N. 5th St. 
Niles, Michigan 683-8288 
1972 CITROEN MASERATI 
Sm Sport Coupe 
Fully Equipped with 5 Speed Transmission 1 Owner Beauty with 20,000 Miles 
1974 AUDI-4 DOOR 2 to choose from 
Both like new 

And any time you need extra pull, 1 PHONF. m 0 you can shift the drive into all four 1 wheels and plow through just about • n thin ! I 

I I 
DART SPORT COUPE 
I I

FEATURING PRICES JUST A 
I

LITTLE OVER FACTORY INVOICE 
I 

ON NEW 1975 DARTS, CORONETS, 
I MONACOS, CHARGER SE'S, AND I I
DODGE TRUCKS! 
I 
Dadge I 0 I 
S!:.~ 
I I I

~ I 
I
DODGE 
I

BOYS 
I
Phone 
I
233·5·111 

Open Monday & Thursday 'til 9 I 
~--~----~------------~1 

I I I I I I I 
Our latest stellar sensation, the 1 new 4-wheel drive Superstar! 1 
There's no car like it in the world. .I Rugged, 4-wheel drive, in a smartly I tailored, economy class wagon. It's I the All-Star's husky country cousin. I Under normal driving conditions, I you can coast along with Subaru's I extraordinary front-wheel drive. 1 
II 



HAROLD MEDOW'S 
I 
I I



INVOICE I I I 
I 
I

P-LUS . I 
I 
I I

. SALE I I I 
I I I I I 

·-------------------------------------------~ 
------~-------~-----~­
r 
10 the observer Friday, April 4, 1975 
henry fonda as clarence darrow 

mary margaret sheeran 
The audience is small, quiet, somewhat lines straight every night?), but the nervous. The lights dim. One spotlight problem is that facts are presented very follows the man who walks out onto the simply with idealistic indignation. The stage. picture of an aggressive lawyer just is not in 
It is Henry Fonda. Fonda's performance. 
i':verybody knows that it is Henry Fonda What comes across in Fonda's charac­and everybody applauds. Then, for the next terization is that the actor is a sincere ad­1.wo hours, Fonda gives us his impression of mirerof Darrow. What also comes across one of our country's most venerable is that what's-his-name lawyer on television lawyers, Clarence Darrow. played by Jimmy Stewart. 
What we see is exactly that: Fonda's The highlight of Clarf'nce Darrow is, of Clarence Darrow. This is enough reason to course, the cross~xamination of William see the show. but it is not enough reason to Jennings Bryan, but the excitement again like it. rt is true that Fonda is an ac­comes mainly from the script itself which is complished actor whose background covers by David W. Rintels based on Clarence impressive roles on the stage and screen, Darrow for thf' Hefense by Irving Stone. but he is primarily an actor for the film, and Another difficulty with ('larencf' Darrow his style simply does not carry over on the is that it does not tell us anything that we do stage. not already know. It tells us that what is 
The primary difficulty with Clarence legal is not always fair or morally right. Barrow is the rendition of a fine script l<'onda 's Darrow tells us this again and which deserves better than Fonda ap­again, but gives no answer as to battling this parantly has to offer. The script reads quite problem. One expects some sort of wisdom differently, with careful listening, than from a dead man, living in the afterlife he Fonda reads it for us. The script says that didn't believe in, onstage pleading his case Darrow's eloquence was more exciting than with an audience of jurors. And it is not Fonda made it seem. It is the script which enough to make us wish that Darrow was makes us laugh, think, and grow disturbed. living still because there are quite a few Certainly Fonda deserves to be com­lawyers today willing to take the case of the plimented on his effort, and we are grateful underdog. What is depressing is that to him for bringing Darrow to us, but at the Fonda's Darrow divides the world into two same time, it is dangerous to rely on Fon­camps of white hats and black hats. It is a da's simple and folksy characterization of a nostalgic view, but not necessarily of much complex man. service to us. 
For his view of Darrow, or the view he All in all, Fonda's Clarence Darrow is gives us, rather, is as simple and idealistic more interesting historically than as f<'onda 's own image, so one does wonder theatrically, although it is a valuable effort. at the accuracy of the portrayal. It is rather entertaining <in the high sense) 
Fonda's Darrow is a comfortable man, if one does not mind a dramatized lecture. although he always knows that he is right. Simplicity and understatement are two But then. so is Fonda -a comfortable man, effective means of communication -but not that is. He presents us with a simple fellow for two hours. who tells his story simply, and the entire Briefly put, Clarf'nce narrow is an in­one-man-show, impressive for that fact teresting and effective stage piece -if only it alone <how in the world does Fonda keep his were not miscast. 
notre dame in the 1960's 
steve euvino 

Step back into this tour of the 60's...we not spell Parseghian, but rather that they In 1968, amidst the bombing halt, the days later, 12 ND-SMC students were offer you some surprises along the way as could not spell Presbyterian. murders of Martin Luther King and Bobby arrested in Washington, D.C. for conducting we visit with the children of change on the In 1965, while President Johnson was Kennedy, Biafra, The Paris Peace talks, a peace resistance rally, along with 174 ND-SMC campuses. . .let us touch upon offering the blueprints for "the Great and the Democratic Convention in Chicago, other persons. That same month, Father their hopes and trials, their victories and Society," and the White House confirmed .in April an anti-ROTC bill was to be in-Hesburgh's 15-minute rule was enacted for defeats...they offer us their legacy ... that U.S. ground troops had been authorized troduced to the Notre Dame Senate. In the first time, with regard to the protesting
The year is 1960. While France was ex­to enter into combat in support of South May, 500 Notre Dame students demon-of the recruiters from Dow and CIA. From ploding the first atomic device in the Sahara Vietnamese forces, the Notre Dame student strated against ROTC. Also, Notre Dame then on, "anyone or any group that sub­and 5 St. Mary's students set off a chain manual read, "The ~tudent clearly sees that was hit by food poisoning during the week of stitutes force for rational persuasion, be it reaction of their own with their it is not fitting he entertain young ladies in a finals. violent or non-violent. ..will be given 15 enrollment in a ND English course. Not all men's residence hall." Luckily for the In 1969, amidst an America of James Earl minutes of meditation to cease and desist." campus life was disrupted by this event, as Administration, Indiana was not one of the 8 Ray, Neil Armstrong, Desegregation, and If, after this period of meditation, they do students we are still not allowed cars if they northeastern states paralyzed by the Chappaquiddick, Notre Dame was reacting not cease and desist, they will be asked for lived on campus. The ND faithful struggled November 9 blackout. to society, and acting. In February, a legal their ID cards and suspended from the each Saturday morning to attend 7:30 1967 was a year of strife, with the Vietnam hassle over the premier of a pornographic community. Those not having ID cards will classes, but considering a 10:00 PM curfew war continuing, the 6-day Arab-Israeli war, film mushroomed into the first violent be considered trespassers and treated and 11:00 PM lights, most made it on time. the race riots in Detroit, with some 35,000 confrontation between police and students accordingly by the law. In the Dow and CIA In the ND tradition, the student center was people in a peace march on Washington, in the history of Notre Dame. The police incident the protesters decided to continue, kept closed during the day on Saturday in D.C., protesting the Viet Nam war. Notre confiscated the film in Nieuwland Hall, and and five students were expelled. Father order to keep it clean for the Saturday night Dame was not unaware of these changing the ensuing struggle resulted in injuries. In Hesburgh later received a letter from football victory dances. troubled times. In February, in the largest October, over 2000 students attended a rally President Nixon complimenting him on his 
In 1961, as the United States was breaking student-faculty demonstration since on the main quad concerning the Vietnam actions. diplomatic relations with Castro's Cuba, a Governor George Wallace's visit in 1964, War Moratorium. Crosses for the Notre On the lighter side, in the September 19, "new regime" was also developing at Notre more than 75 members of the Notre Dame Dame students killed in the war were 1969 Issue of The Observer, there was a Dame. Russia's 5o-megaton hydrogen community marched in front of the Morris placed at the ROTC building. In Nov., photo of four St. Mary's girls, and the bomb was no match for what was brewing Inn, protesting the presence of General students protest the General Electric caption below it read: "The girls above are underthe lights of du Lac. No more was William Westmoreland, who was on campus Company's interviews. The number of Terry Buck, Missy McRedmond, Ann Mass attendance mandatory, no more to receive the Patriot of the Year Award. protesters once reached 25, but, as only Stringer, and Molly Tiernan. They'll be in "lights-out" no more off-limit areas in Particular uprising occurred over West-between eight to ten students usually uniform tomorrow as Notre Dame's first South Bend.' and no more required morning moreland's interpretation of the Award as a protested outisde the Placement Bureau, no girl chf'f'rleadf'rs." You've come a long checks three times a week. confidence vote for the American in-action was taken a ainst them. Several way. baby. 
In 1962, as President Kennedy was lifting 
~"~ti~~V~Nam. ~A~iltheNotre~=~~~~=~==~~=~~~~~-~-~-------------, 
the air-sea blockade of Cuba, St. Mary's was Dame Senate made a collective complaint 
lifting a tradition which had stood for 102 to the South Bend and St. Joseph County 

nixon's letter to hesburgh
years. For the first time since 1860, St. police, regarding the tactics employed in Mary's girls were shedding their lovely blue quelling a Sunday night panty raid on St. suit uniforms. However, Notre Dame's Mary's. The proposal listed as particularly 
Dear Ted, freshmen were still under the blockade of 10 offensive the use of K-8 dogs and tear gas 
I share your concern over the recent great university is that the rule of reason,PM curfews and lights-out at midnight. bombs as weapons against a harmless disorders that have paralyzed campus after and not the rule of force prevails. WhoeverIn 1963, under Head Coach Hugh Devore, a demonstration. Later, that same year, two campus across our country in recent weeks, rejects that principle forfeits his right to be2-7 Fighting Irish football team ar~ived in thousand irate students threatened im­and I want to applaud the forthright stand a member of the academic community. TheIowa City to finish their season agamst the peaching the entire student senate because you've taken. As you know, the issues university administrator who fails to upholdUniversity of Iowa, only to learn of the a measure had been passed, "favoring girl raised by the protesting students range that priniple jeopardizes one of the centraltragic death of President Kennedy. In cheerleaders." 
from minor reforms within the academic pillars of his own institution and weakens respect to the Fallen Chief, the game was However, Notre Dame in 1967 was not all community to major concerns of national the very foundation of American education. 
cancelled. protest Tn April, Notre Dame's Pentecostal policy; but the means that some students, a I have directed the Vice-President inIn 1964, amidst a world filled with such PrayerMovementreached new heights in its small, irresponsible minority, have em­meetings in Washington this coming week names as Jack Ruby, the Warren Report, series of prayer meetings involving ritual ployed reflect an impatience with with the governors of the fifty states toand the Gulf of Tonkin, in the little com­exorcisms and the "laying of hands." This democratic processes, intolerance of discuss what action consistent with themunity of Notre Dame, the savior appeared, resulted in some students receiving the "gift legitimately constitued authority, and a traditional independence of Americanin the form of a youthful, raven-haired of tongues." One student stood up, raised complete disregard for the rights of others. 
universities might be taken at the state andMiami Redskin-turned Wildcat, a stranger his hands over his head and started Violence and vandalism have marked federal levels to cope with the growingto Notre Dame, known to the student Body shouting unintelligibly <the same thing many of these protests and the rights of the lawlessness and violence on our campuses.

as Ara Parseghian, who in eleven years students do today when Digger gets a majority of the students have been grossly I would appreciate it greatly if you wouldtechnical>. The crowd of about 60 fell inunder the Golden Dome would restore the abused. If the integrity of our universities is take the time to give him your views on thisrespctability not only to Notre Dame silence, only to be broken by strains of to be preserved, then certain principles matter.
football, but to the entire University and to "Praise the Lord," and "Alleluia." Also. 
must be reestablished and certain basic all of college football as well. However, the for the second year in a row. Notre Dame 
rules enforced. Intimidation and threats With Warm regards. 
../ going at first was rough for the newcomer. students were of(ered the, chance .of having remain outlaw weapons in a free society. A Sincerely,fundamental governing principle of anyIt was not that the Notre Dame priests could phones in their rooms. 
Richard M. Nixon 

-.., ....y, April ... .,,;, the observer 1 1 
beat the observer at the academy awards 
by tom o 'neil and fred graver 
OtrR CHOICES: Not wishing to miss out on any of the fun, Bl"st Picture: By process of elimination, Hence, we predict that Truffaut will win film community as a guy who wants to make The Observer has decided to challenge the Chinatown. the Best Director award. Going out on a movies about Dental Lab Assistants. movie buffs on campus to a matching of the There is a profound anti-Godfather II limb? Sure, but what have we got to Jose? Which leaves votes for the gand old man, prophecies. We've chosen our list of win­movement in Hollywood right now, so that The Observer is paying for the prizes, not Astaire. Ah, to live with the simplicity of ners, including our reasoning. All that you knocks out both the tale of the Corleone's us. tinsel town! have to do is fill out the entry blank on the and The Conversation, which was directed As for Coppola and Fosse, they are suf-Best Supporting Actess: This is getting side, drop it in the box at the door of the by the director of Godfather II, Francis fering under the fact that they were honored boring. Madeline Kahn is a superb comic dining hall, and gloat. Ford Coppola. highly before, and the Academy doesn't like actress but she appeared in a technically Whoever outguesses us gets their name in There is also a tendency in Hollywood to to get too generous. John Cassevetes is a negligible film. the paper on Wednesday. use the Best Picture award to promote a Hollywood rebel, an independent director Nine out of ten peole who saw the God­Though it was difficult to determine a high-<Juality film which did not have com-and producer who doesn't connect himself ratht"r Part II can't remember that Talia better prize for the person getting the merical success on its first run. Towering strongly with any studio. Tough luck, Shire played Michael's sister in the film. highest percentage of correct predictions, lnfl"rno is already a tremendoulsy sue-because he deserves the award as much as Anonymity is also the fate of Diana Ladd we finally decided to award a Cinema'76 cessful film, and a good many people will anyone. and Valentina Cortese <who?l. pass to that profound oracle. If the winner is stay away from Lenny whether it wins or Best Actor: Well, here we have the young Which leaves Ingrid Bergman. This will a graduating Senior, a Plitt theatre discount not. <Not taking into account the facts that guys cancelling each other out. Pacino and make her the third star to win three pass will be awarded, along with the there is an anti-Bob Fosse move in Hoffman will steal votes from each other, Academy Awards <the other two are position of usher in case of a failure in fin­Hollywood, discounting Lenny, and that and those that don't go in that direction will Katharine Hepburn and Walter Brennan). ding other employment next year. Towt"ring Inft"rno, is recognized to have one go to Jack Nicholson. Albert Finney starred Who watches the awards to see who wins Good luck. of the most awful scripts ever.) in a movie filled with stars, so it was im-anyway? What will Sam~ Davis Jr. look Chinatown received a tremendous critical possible to be a true "leading man", which like doing a song and d<.nce tribute to Fred To begin w1th, here are the nominees: reception from the beginning, but did poorly is what killed Pacino two years ago. Astaire? <Will he wear white-face?) Will Bt"st Picturt": The Godfather Part II, The commerically. The "young" Hollywood, Which leaves the grand old man, Art Shirely MacLaine surprise us all and look Towering Inferno, Chinatown, Lenny and made up of indepndent producers and Carney. Battling alcoholism <The Jack sober? What nasty little remark will Tatum The Conversation. directors, is pushing for this film. The "old" Lemmon motif> and a sagging career, he O'Neal make? Why wasn't Richard Nixon Bt"st Dirt"ctor: Francis Ford Coppola for Hollywood enjoys the nostalgic flavor, as made a brilliant tour-de-force out of his role ~Qm*i*n"'*tP*d*fo*r*a!}¥thiJ1g?********** ....._ 

Godfatht"r Part II, Bob Fosse for Lenny' Chinatown is largely a tribute to directors in Harry and Tonto. So Hollywood js bound ...* Jl( *** .... Roman Polanski for Chinatown, John Orson Welles and John Huston. to get sentimental on this one. it The Entry Form * Cassavetes for A Woman l'nder the In-Bl"st Dirl"ctor: Here's where we There is also the fact that Carney's per-!. No~ here is_the .opportunity.to match y~ur: fluence. and Francois Truffaut for Day For segregate the dilletantes from the serious formance was the best of the five, but what itmtelhgence, mtmt10n and~om agamst It Night. film-goers. does that count in the Academy Awards? iCOUr own. Good Luck. @ * Best Actor: AI Pacino in Godfather II. In the last twenty years, only two films .Best Actr~ss: Right from the start, let_'s iC Your Name • : Dustin Hoffman in Lt"nny, Jack Nicholson in that were given the best Picture award were discount D1anne Carroll. Her role m ·.: o * Chinatown, Albert Finney in Murder on the not given the Best Director award. So, it Claudine was about as tough as a walk-Qn it Best Picture • * Orient Express, and Art Carney in Harry would seem natural that Roman Polanski part in a Cecil B. DeMille production. iC * and Tonto. win the award this year for Chinatown. By Valerie Perrine is too much the new-iC Best nirector * Best Actress: Faye Dunaway in rights, he should, for he was the Best comer-bright-starlet to carry the Oscar, and it ~ : Chinatown. Valerie Perrine in Lenny, Ellen Director of films made this year. Faye Dunaway shuns Hollywood almost as t Bt>st Actor ~ * Burstyn in Alice Doesn't Live Here But this also is a fluke year for much ~~~ it ~huns hPr it * Anymore, Gena Rowlands in A Woman nominations. Last year, Day For Night was Gena Rowlands is John Casavete's it Best Actess --* 
' llnder the Influence, and Dianne Carroll in voted Best Foreign Language film, but wife. 1f she wins, it will only be in a move of iC It Claudine. because some insane Academy rulings, was humiliation over the shabby treatment of her it Best Supportinl! Artor __ : 

Best Supporting Actor: Robert DeNiro, not eligible to be nominated in any other husband. And whoever heard of Hollywood ~ ..._ Michael V. Cazzo and Lee Strasberg all for categories because of its late American being humble? • Best Supporting Actrest= ; Godfather Part II, Fred Astaire in Towering release date. So Truffaut has been The award goes to Ellyn Burstyn, one of iC * Inferno. and Jeff Bridges in Thunderbolt nominated for Best Director in 1974 for a Hollywood's own. iC The Tie-Breakers * and Lightfoot. . . . film made in 1973. Best Supporting Actor: As if in some war iC _ * Best Supporting ;Actess: Taha Shire m Da~· For Night is a film about making between the Mafia Families, Robert t Which film will win th~ Academy: (;odfather Part II, Ingrid Bergman in films, a smooth, loving lyrical look at film-DeNiro, Michael V. Cazzo and Lee iC Awards? * 1\lm·der on the Orient Express, Diane Ladd makers. Hollywood, as well as the entire Strasberg will gun each other in the voting. it It m Alice lloesn't Uve llere Anymore, film community, loved it. And they are leaving Bridges and Astaire. itHow many will it win? .lf­
l\1adel!ne Kahn i.n Blazi~g S?.ddles, and about ready to give Truffaut some of the Bridges has about as many votes in the !**********************: 
ValentmaCortese m Day For Nu!ht. recogmt10n he deserves. ~ 
'. 
~------------------------------------------~


; f EVERY NIGHT THIS WEEKEND i 
·.1 DEEP DISH PIZZA IS HERE! ~~ ..The Pan" PIZZA PARLOR ~ .1 is offering the N.D.-S.M.C. communitYI 
I the largest and tastiest pizza II in the midwest. I i WOULD YOU BELIEVE A 6LB. PIZZA~ 

" I I 

!FREE DELIVERY i
ANYWHERE ON OR OFF-CAMPUS
i~ PICK UP SERVICE CALL 277-1221 or 277-1222~ 
~-1 I
fIDEEP DISH IS A SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY OFFER! ! !I 
IWHOLE NEW 8 pock of 7-up or Pepsi $1 (deposit) withl IEXPERIENCE IN PIZZA! I 
1 purchase of any medium or large pizza I 
J 107 DIXIEWAV NORTH-ACROSS FROM RANDALLS INN J 

~~----------------------------.------------~-., 

12 the observer 

Campus Briefs • • • 
The Art Department of St. Mary's College is offering a two week, three credit freshair workshop at Redbud Trail Camp on the St. Joseph River near Buchanan, Michigan. 
The program, which will run from May 19 through May 31, will include individual workshops in raku ceramics, drawing and painting, fiber and natural dyeing, and nature photography. Guest artists and performers in all these areas will be invited, and slides. films, and books will be in­corporated into the workshops. 
The Freshair Workshop is open for public enrollment. Forty students will be accepted on a first eome. first served basis. The cost of the workshop is $250 and in­cludes tuition. room. board and transportation. 
Those who wish to enroll in the workshop should send name, address, phone number, and area of interest along with a $25 deposit to Claudia Traudt, Art Gallery, St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
fo'urther Information about the workshop can be obtained by calling Claudia Traudt at 284-5717. 
LSAT Sessions 
A three-part LSAT prep session, sponsored jointly by the St. Mary's 
I 
il 
Career Development Center and the SMC Law Society, gets un­derway on Sunday at 3 p.m. in room 239 Madeleva. A $5.00 fee for all three sessions\~ is charged, and is payable at the first session. 
I On Sunday, Dr. Myron Sokolowski, law professor, and Dr. Deanna Sokolowski, English professor, will discuss "Legal Problems and Vocabulary." 
The second session, scheduled 
·l 
I for 6:30 p.m. Sunday, April 13, covers "Math Skills and Graphs, Part 1," and is taught by Mr. Donald Miller, SMC math professor. 
The third and final session on Wednesday, Aprilt6, at 7 p.m. is a conclusion of the math review. 
According to Karen O'Neil, director of the Career Develop­ment Center. the prep session is open to all Notre Dame and St. Mary's students planning to take the LSAT on April 19. 
Name recipients 
The Danforth Foundation has announced the names of recipients of Danforth Fellowships for the class of 1975. Among the sixty five fellows chosen nationally were two Notre Dame seniors: James T. Braun, who plans graduate study in English, and Andrew J. Mooney, who expects to do graduate work in Political Theory. Named to the honorable mention list by the Foundation was Paul E. Angelo a senior in Mathematics at Notre Dame. 
the observer 
Night Editor: Rick Blower 

Ast. Night Editor: Martha Fan­ning & Gregg Banqs 
Layout Staff: Tom Sheridan, Maureen Sajbel, Ken Girouard, Fred Graver, AI Rutherford, Mike 
Chanatry  
Day  Editor:  Maureen  Flynn,  
Mary Egan  
Copy  Reader:  Bob  Radziewicz,  
Kathy Mills  

Editorials: Jim Eder Features: Thomas O'Neil Sports: Bill Brink Typi Jim Landis, Rick Huber, 
Camille Arrleh, Mary Tobin, Don Roos Compugraphic: John Kuhn Night Controllers: M.J. & Howard 
Picture Screener: Albert Ad Layout: Bobby Tracey, Tommy Whelan 




THJ<:SE APARTMENTS ARI<: LOCATED JUST SOUTH OF THE l'Al\11'liS ON NOTRI<~ DAME AVENUE. EACH APARTMENT IS llESIGNEil FOR !::illJ!.OR FIVE STUDENTS AND IS COMPLETELY 
1\lODEHN IN E\'EHY DETAIL. 
9 MONTH LEASE AVAILABLE ­
• USING NEW LEASE APPROVED BY DIR OF OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING. 
ONE BUILDING BEING RESERVED 
• 
FOR GRADUATE STUDENTS-9 MO. OR 12 MO. LEASE. 

SUMMER APARTMENTS 

• 
AVAILABLE NOW. 


SOME OUTSTANDING FEATURES: 
Private Patios and Balconies Aor Conditioning Kitchen with Range, Refrigerator and Garbage Disposals 
Cooking Utensils, Dishes, Silverware, Glasses, etc. Wall to Wall Carpeting Party Bar 
Soundproof and Fireproof Construction Prewired for Cable TV and Telephone Lighted Paved Parking Area Completely Furnished (X Long Beds) 
Trunk Storage Over 1,000 sq. ft.. apartment 'Excellent Security 

FOR RENTAL INFORMATION CALL 272-7656 or 234-6647 
Friday, April 4, 1975 
the observer 13 
Former secretary testifies at bribery trial 
Connally's meetings with Jacobson verified 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -A prosecution witness testified Thursday that former Treasury Secretary John B. Connally met with milk lobbyist Jake Jacobson on the two dates Connally allegedly accepted Jacobson's bribes totalling $10,000. 
Referring to her appointment logs, Connally's former secretary, Rose Cicala, said Connally and Jacobson met in the treasury secretary's office for one hour on May 14, 1971, and for 10 minutes on Sept. 24, 1971. 
Defense lawyers attempted to show on cross-examination that the second meeting may not have taken place. 
On the third day of Connally's bribery trial, the prosecution played a White House tape and called its first witness in an at­tempt to establish charges Con­nally accepted two payments of $5000 for his help in persuading President Richard M. Nixon to raise the price supports for raw milk. 
The prosecution charges Con­nally accepted the money from Jacobson. then a lawyer for the Associated Milk Producers Inc., on 
May 14 and Sept. 24, !971. The defense says Connally accepted nothing and alleges Jacobson made this story up to protect his own legal interests. Under defense prodding about the Sept. 24 date, Mrs. Cicala said her logbook showed a 10-minute Connally­Jacobson meeting that day although the office appointment book showed Jacobson had no appointment that day. She also said she had no direct knowledge of the meeting beyond what the log book showed. 
Her testimony led up to the appearance of Jacobson, the presecution star witness. The preoseuction said Jacobson would testify that Connally asked him to see if he could arrange a payoff from the milk producers in return for Connally's assistance in getting milk support prices increased. 
Thursday morning, the prosecution played the White House tape of an Oval Office conversation in which Connally urged Nixon, on March 23, 1971, to raise milk price supports on political grounds. 
"I wouldn't judge it increasing milk price support on a moral b!!sis, "Connally said early in the 

Q. What are the hours of the Morrissey Loan Fund? ' 
A. The .L.F. is open from Monday to Friday at 11:15 am to 12:15 
pm and is located in the basement of the LaFortune Student Center. 
(~. When will the Form 50's be received for the fall semester advance registration? 
A. Depending upon what class you'll be a member of, it should arrive through the mail by April 14. The schedule is: Grad students and seniors by April 9, juniors by April 7, and sophomores by Aprill4. The Form 50 packet processing will be from 9:00am to 4:30 pm on the days April 15 through April18 in Stepan Center. 
(~. When will the golf course open for play this year? 
A. Although there is snow on the ground, the golf course is 
already open for operation this year and will remain so, weather permitting. 
meeting. "I am addressing 
myself...to the political aspects of 
it." 
Connally warned Nixon that 
"these dairymen are organized, 
they're adamant, they're militant. 
"They're massing an enormous 
amount of money that they're 
going to put into political ac­
tivities, very frankly," he said. 
"Itappears very clear to me that you're going to have to move, uh, you're going to have to be strong in rural america," during the 1972 elections, Connallv insisted. 
Two days after the conversation with Connally, Nixon overruled his agricultural advisers and ordered that milk price supports be in­creased. 
Watergate prosecutors al~o produced bank safe deposit records that showed Jacobson had visited his safe deposit box in Texas the day before the alleged May 14 payoff and opened a safe deposit box in Washington hours after that visit to Connally. 
Jacobson testified that he had received the $10,000 in cash from Bob Lilly, the AMPI treasurer, and placed it in his safe deposit box. He said he took the $10,000 out on May 13 and after giving half to Connally, put the remaining half in the Washington safe deposit box. 
Records were also produced to show that Jacobson visitied the safe deposit box in Washington hours before he said he made the second payoff to Connally. 

Jacobson said he split the money into two payments "to get more credit for it." 
Jacobson said he had met with Connally twice prior to the March 23, 1071, decision by the Nixon administration to raise price supports. At both times he urged Connally to argue in favor of higher price supports and he said Connally agreed. 
But Jacobson said there was no 
discussion of money with Connally 
until about a month after the ad­
ministration's decision. 
Earlier, a prosecution witn~ss testified that Conally met with Jacobson on the dates Connally allegedly accepted the payments. 
Bicycle pick upset for April 7 and 8 
by Pat Cuneo staff reporter 
The Ombudsman office has announced that bicycles may be picked up from winter storage in the Stadium Monday and Tuesday, April 7 and 8, between noon and 4 p.m. 
Students are asked to present their yellow claiming tickets, distributed before the Christmas break, to the security official at the gate. 
The Bike Storage project, headed by John Cramer, is one of many programs sponsored by the Special Projects and Services ISPS\ of the Ombudsman. 
Cramer noted that the Om­budsman is also taking steps to create a campus lost and found department and an improved Hall-
QUICKIE SHUTrLE SYSTEM: 
Main circle at ND••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 8:30 Holy Cross-SMC ••••••••••• •••••••••••••••••••••• 8:34 Light before Boar's Head............... ••••••• ••••• 8:38 Light at Denny's-Village Inn ••••••••••••••••••••••8:40 Jay's Lounge on '31...............................8:45 Portaphino's on '31•••••••••• ••••••••••••••••••••• 8:51 Heidelberg on '31 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 8:55 Shula's on '31 ••••••••• •••••••••••••••••••• •• •••• 9:00 
Kubiak's on '31 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 9:04 
Light at Denny's-Village Inn. ··••••••••••••••••••• 9:08 Light after Boar's Head ••••••• •••••••••••••• ••••• 9:10 llollv Cross Hall·S1\1C ••••••••••••••••••••••••••·•• 9:15 
l\tairl Circle at ND ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 9:20 
There will also be runs following this same schedule leaving the 
main l'ircle at 9, 9:30, 10, 11, 12, 12:30, 1, 1:30. All buses go to 
Michigan. 
The cost will be $.50one way or $.75 for all night. 

If you have any questions please call the 0mhud!'man at 7638. 
THE NATIONAL SHAKESPEARE COMPANY 
&
PRESENTS 

Iwo fJe-n.Ile11lelt 
~~ott& 
Saturday, April 5 

Olaughlin Auditorium 8 PM 
Tickets are 3.50 for Adults 

2. 50 for Students and are available at Student Union Ticket Office. 
A CAC pre~enlollon 

marking program. An attempt is being made to secure funds from the CampLis Security budget in order to hire a person to take charge of the hall-marking and lost and found programs. 
Cramer felt there is a great need for these campus services. He pointed out that the hall-marking program, designed for the security of the students, was an obvious failure this year and that the lost and found department, presently located in. the basement of the Administration Building, is crowded into a corner of the traffic violation room. 
"The Bike Storage project," said Cramer, "proved to us that the similar programs we previously had in mind also have a good chance of being successful." 
r-----~~------~ 

:. ATTENTION 
ALL 


RADUATIN STUDENTS 
Measurements will be taken for 
CAPS and 
GOWNS 
WEDNESDAY 
I 
April 9 
and 

THURSDAY April 10 
between 

9:00 -4:00 
at the 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE. 

\.1 
I 
i• 
• I 
i. r 



(continued from page ll "The purpose of these actions," he maintained. "was to discredit efforts to change foreign poicy." "The same king of thing, to some extent. occurred in the Civil Rights Movement," said Lowenstein. More massive efforts to distrot the public process were found in the 1972 presidential election. Lowenstein highlighted several apsects of the campaign, including Nixon's Committee to Re-Elect the President's fraudulent letters
;. 
designed to alienate Democratic candidates from ethnic con­stituencies and sex-life smear letters addressed from one Democratic candidate to another. 


"The central effort of Nixon's Committee was to make the Democrats pick a candidate who could not unite the party," Lowenstein stated. 
He also gave examples of how Nixon's Committee forced con­tributions from American Airlines 

1 4 t bserver Friday, April 4, 1975 
; ; ~ 
-·,.. ~ ..., __ ...--·.·.== · · · : e.·~-?._, !'-~.;. ..... ,_, '· .. : • •,,~,tr'}.· ._ · · "'"';.., ." ..r~.~~-. 
Lowe'nstein cites· tactics,..contributions 
Nixon calllpaign distorted election process 
and the milk industry. 
Lowenstein emphasized the 
deception of voters and even of 
Congressmen by former 
presidents. He insinuated that 
Johnson lied to Congress about the 
true nature of naval events in the 
Tonkin Gulf in 1964. 
"Only one bullet was fired by the 
North Vietnamese on August 2nd," 
Lowenstein declared. "And no military action was taken at all on August 4., 1964. Yet president Johnson used the threat of Com­munist attack as a fabrication to convince Congress to pass the Tonkin Gulf Resolution," he continued. ''I'm not concerned right now with whether or not Johnson over­stepped his presidential authority under the resolution later on in the war,'' said Lowenstein. "I am 
concerned with the way in which he obtained the Resolution. The same sort of thing happened with the Wright Resolution, which 
'The least we can do..• ' 
. ostensibly advocated a "just peace" in Vietname through the freeing of prisoners and through 
· free elections. Actually it was a measure to appease those Congressman who wanted to force a vote on the war." Lowenstein's exressed the hope that these distortions of the system will lead Americans to realize that 
now is the time for people to assert their commitment to social action and the democratic process so that such distortions ;,nd abuses of power will not occur again. 
"Our life depends on the structure of the system, on the stability of the country," he con­eluded. 
The New Yorker closed his talk with a quote from a speech by Robert Kennedy delivered in 1968. " 'This is a year when we must examine not only the candidates, but also the country...The Gross National Product cannot measure wit, courage or loyalty to our country,' " he stated. "Neither does it measure squalor and despair...We seek to recapture our country," he added. 
Most of the audience remained for the qeustion and answer session which followed the speech. Lowenstein repeated during this symposium that Americans must learn from .distortions of the system. 
"They system can be improved a great deal,'' he said. ''If we try, things may be improved with difficulty. But if we don't, we guarantee failure." 
There was considerable student interest in Lowenstein efforts to reopen the investigation of Robert Kennedy's assasination. Lowenstein went at length to ex­plain how ballistics studies have proved that Sirhan Sirhan did not kill Kennedy. 
Lowenstein expressed a par­ticular fondness for Notre Dame: "There is no place where there is such a large collection of people who can change conditions for the better." he stated. 
~-------._..;-----..,~--.;;._-,., 
\/IVIAN'S VIEWS ON BEAUTY 
:\II too oftl'n a woman t>nters a lkauty Salon for a haircut only to ht> talked into a hairstyle she rPally dot>sn 't want and then is disappointt>d and upset. 
You may rest assured that \·l,·ian has trained his staff to takl' Pnough timl' to find out ~·our likt•s and dislikes and to tollow your wishl'S to a "T." 
nf <"ourse 1f you want ~uggPstions Wt' are more than 
happ~  to  make  and  discuss  
tiH'm w1th  ~·ou.  
l,t•m•·mhl•r  \H'  are  here  to  

ph•asP ~·ou. And please you we w11l. t'all 232-2194 for an ap­pointml'llt. Wt• an• conveniently locatt'd 2 doors South of the i\lorris t'ivic Auditorium at the corm·r of l\lichigan St. and 1 'olfax on the Hiver Bend Plaza. 
:\s addt>d incentive we are offt>ring a 20 percent Discount to t 'ollege Students on any ~londay. Tuesday. or Wed­nPsday. 
1Paid Advertiseml•nt l 


Ford pledges more aid 
tcontinul.'d from page 3) 
strong. 
"They want freedom under a 
different kind of government than 
exists in North Vietnam," he said. 
"A unilateral decision to with­
draw created the chaotic situation 
that exists now," Ford said. "it 
was a unilateral decision by 
President Thieu to order a with­
drawal of his troops from exposed 
areas." 
Asked whether he felt the fall of 
South Vietnam and Cambodia 
would affect U.S. national 
security. Ford said: "At present I 
don not anticipate the fall of South 
Vietnam and I greatly admire and 
respect the fight the people and 
governement of Cambodia are 
putting up.. " 
But, Ford said, America's allies 
around the world cannnot help but 
feel insecure about the releability 
of U.S. commitments to stand by 
them and he repeated his 
assurances that the United States 
would remain a trustworthy ally 
everywhere. 
"Let me say to our European 
allies: We are going to stand 
behind our commitments to NATO 
and we are going to stand behind 
our commitments to· our other 
allies around the world." 
Asked wherher he put any stock 
m the "domino theory" that other 
nations might fall under Com­
munist control if South Vietnam and Cambodia did, Ford replied, "I believe that there is a great deal of credibility to the domino theory." 

"I hope that doesn't happen," he said. noting that fears have been expressed in Thailand, the Philippines and other nations in the area. 
He said he hoped that "they don't misread" the events in Vietnam and Cambodia to think that the United States is "going to abandon our position in Southeast Asia." 
"We are not," he said. 
The President declared the United States is a reliable ally, and said the nation will continue its leadership and stand by its allies despite the tragedy of Indochina. 
The Chief Executive was asked whether a resignation by Thieu might help the U.S. effort to provide humanitarian aid for the South Vietnamese. 
1"1 don't believe it is my prerogative to tell any head of state elected by the people to leave office," Ford replied. "I don't believe it would be appropriate for me to ask him to resign." 
Even if Thieu were replaced Ford said, it probably would not make any difference in American's aid efforts for the South Vietnamese. 
Ford said durmg the 40 minutes of questions and answers that 




t * ERIC CLAPTON 
I * BOB SEGER 

I * L YNYRD SKYNYRD 
I * CHICAGO
* KRAFTWERK 

I.* DAN FOGELBERG 
* 
BLUE JAYS 

* 
AMERICA

* 
STEELY DAN

* 
ALICE COOPER

* 
JEFF BECK

* 
DAVID BOWIE 


l 
919·8 COLLEGE SQUARE MISHAWAKA: INDIANA ·255-0266 
there were "no plans whatsoever" for U.S. military involvement in Vietnam." But he acknowledged that if he had the potential of sending troops back to South Vietnam, that would serve as "a deterrent against agression." 
He said th thought the Southeast Asia programs of the previous four to five presidents "were aimed in the right direction that we should help those people who are willing to fight for freedome for them­selves. That was sound policy." 
Ford declined to blame Congress for the current setbacks in Southeast Asia. "I won't point the finger ... the American people will make that judgement." 

handmade indian turquoise jewelry 
bracelets -rings -neckpieces-earrings-etc. 
All. REASONABlY PRICED 
(great for grad. gifts or for yourself) Phone 287-0076 after 7 p.m. 
SUNDAY MASSES 
{MAIN CHURCH) 
5:15 p.m. Sat. Fr. Bob Griffin, CSC 9:30a.m. Sun. Fr. Dave Schlaver, CSC 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Joseph Hoffman, CSC 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. Bill Toohey, CSC 
Physics Courses lor Non-Science Majors 
The f.our. courses described below will be offered by the Department of Phys1~s 1n the f~ll 1975 semester. They are particularly well suited for non-sc1ence maJors--though not restricted to them. 
Physics 111-112: Topics in Physics-3 credits per semester 
A quantitative study of the major developments in classical and 
modern physics set in historical and philosophical perspective. High 
school algebra and geometry are the only requirements. This two­
semester course fulfills the University-wide science requirement for all students. , 
Instructor: Professor James T. Cushing (Extension 6132) 
Physics 210: Descriptive Astronomy -3 credits 
A description of the motions, distribution, and structure of the planets, sun, star system and galaxies. Some observational work is in­cluded. A one-year introductory science course including at least one semester of physical science is a prerequisite. Instructors: Professor James L. Shilts (Extension 7732) 
Professor William D. McGlinn (Extension 7095) 
Physics 206: Concepts of Relativity -3 credits 
A discus_sion of E in_stein's Sp~cial ar:'d ~eneral Theories of Relativity. Con_cepts d1scussed mclude t1me d1lat1on, causality, mass-energy equivalence, cu~ved s~ace, black-holes, and ·cosmology. A one-year in­troductory phys1cal sc1ence course is a prerequisite. Instructor: Professor Sperry E. Darden (Extension 7262) 
I 

Physics 311: Emergence of Mod~rn Scientific World Views-3credits 
This seminar reading course traces the rise of rationality and developme~t of the belief _in a scientific approach to problems and sur­veys the differences and mte~~ctions between philosophy and science. 
There are no formal prerequ1s1tes. '• . . . Instructor~· Professor Jafn'es·1\ Cushing (Extens~on 6132) ..·. ' .
~ 

Furthe~ infor~ation, as well as course syllabi, can be obtained either by contactmg the mstnJctc:s at the extensions listed above or by stopping in at the Department of Physics Office in Room 225 of Nieuwland Science 
Hall (Extension 6386). · 
Features Recess 101 F~y, April 4, 1t7s the observer 
An Tostal events vary .. 
Bill Quinn and Gary Brownell have expressed much enthusiasm about this year's Mud Volleyball Tourney. Registration for the tournament closed this week when the maximum number of teams· had entered: 46 men's teams and eight women's teams. Those who have registered and have questions about rules or schedules may still call t!ill or Gary at 8311 or 8313. 
Bookstore Basketball Tournament 
Commissioner of the Bookstore 
Basketball Tournament, Vince 
Meconi of Morrissey Manor, 
reports that many of those coveted 
berths in NO's most presitgious 
basketball tourney are still un­
filled. "Registration closes 
Monday at midnight," says 
Meconi, "so call me at 3470 to enter 
as quickly as possible." 
Meconi added that this year's 
rules are basically the same, 
except that this year girls are both 
invited and encouraged to par­
ticipate. Each team must consist 
of five players, and, as usual, 
games are played to 21 points on 
outdoor courts--eome rain, sleet, 
snow, or possibly even sunshine. 
Ugliest Man on Campus Contest Once again the Alpha Phi Omega fraternity is donating their time to directing the "Ugliest Man on Campus Contest" in an effort to raise money for Sr. Marita's school. Votes in the form of pennies <or one dollar for 100 votes), may be cast every day during An Tostal in front of the dining halls. There is no limit on the number of votes cast per person so practice up on your ballot box stuffing techniques. and don't forget the man can be a girl. A plaque will be presented to the winner at the Irish Wake and final tabulations will be posted. Last year's winner, Mike Saz­danoff of Keenan Hall, showed anxiety about losing his title. He claims. "The lovely South Bend weather has cleared up my complexion so I'm much better looking this year." For further information. call Dan Mayo_ at 6645. Mr. Campus Contest 
On Gentle Thursday at 10:00 p.m.. An Tostal '75 presents another innovation--the Mr. Campus Contest. Each guys' and girls' dorm may enter one con-
TOM PORTER, BOB QUACKENBUSH and MARY SIEGEL indicate the An Tostal field, north of D-2 parking lot, snow-bound only two 
weeks before festivities. 
testant, who will vie for the first annual Mr. Campus Trophy. 
Competition categories include talent, bathing suit, evening attire, and one question to determine IQ, or lack of it. A Mr. Congeniality will also be chosen by a co-ed board of judges picked at random before the competition. So each hall should get started today choosing their representative. Call Kevin Maguire at 3659 for further information. 
Recess 101 
Recess 101, the An Tostal 
Committee's extravaganza 
scheduled for Friday night, will 
return all of us to our vaguely­
remembered childhood. Tricycle 
races, finger-painting, hop scotch, 
4-square, giant twister, boola­
hoop, paper plane contest, red 
light-green light, and swimming in 
baby pools are several of the 
highlights planned. 
The diaper-clad organizers, while trying to produce a spec­tacular time, are unfortunately l1m1ted m funds. Besides spreading the word around they are asking all students to 'check their homes and their rooms particularly South Bend students' for kiddie _records, tricycles, baby pools. a spmner for a twister game boola-hoops, rqller-skates, and volunteers to help in coordinating events after the Amateur Hour. 
All borrowed objects will be identified to owner and returned the week after An Tostal. Please call Keefe Montgomery at 8702 Tina Sordyl at 1348, or Theres~ Bush at 4605. Also rattles teething rings, diapers' or pam~ pers, and pacifiers can be used to keep the An tostal Committee 
quiet. 
Chariot Race 
The An Tostal chariot race will take place on Sunny Saturday, following the picnic. The event begins with a parade of the entries past the thousands of fans eating their lunches. A dry run of the course will follow, so make sure your chariot will hold together at least that long. 
Chariots must be furnished with two distinct wheels, one charioteer, and four "horsemen." Absolutely no animals will be 111lowed, hut the rest is up to your imagination. So get busy and call Polly Mack or Betsy Lamping at 6885 for registration information. 
Trivia Bowl 
All Notre Dame and St. Mary's students determined to prove they know much more than what is taught in classrooms are invited to prove it in the An Tostal Trivia Bowl. Hundreds of questions are being prepared for the event and 
there are bound to be some that can't be answered--except by you! If you would like to compete in the Trivia Bowl, call Rich Morton at 3097 or Digger Dziemanowick at 3696. 
Decathlon Now in its third year, the An Tostal Decathlon just continues to expand, especially under the direction of Lou Myers. Ten events will test the skill and endurance of each competitor: 9 holes of golf, 100 yards swim, speed skating, 100 yard dash, softball throw, long jump, shot put, free throw shooting, billiards and the mile run. , Halls may enter teams for hall glory and individuals may enter alone for individual glory and those trophies. Registration is now open, so call Lou at 8377. 








r---------------------------•
1 TOM'S UNIVERSITY STANDARD I 
I I
I 17993 STATE ROAD 23 272-0083 I I ~ I I CONVENIENTLY LOCATED ..:.'f•~ II AT THE CORNER OF ~•Y• I I IRONWOOD AND STATE I
-'!e)

1 ROAD 23 ~ I 
I ~I 
ACROSS FROM THRIF-T-MART I 
10 PERCENT DISCOUNT TON.D. & S.M.C. STUDENTS I 
I

COMPLETE CAR CARE I I
NOW FREE WITH EVERY $1 0 
I PURCHASE (INCLUDING GAS) I 
I 
I

A VALUABLE MICHIGAN 
I 
I

GREEN TICKET WHICH 
I COULD BRING YOU I 
I

A LOT OF GREEN! I 

L-------------------------J 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
Small med. dog to be given away. 
Good watchdog. Call 289-2371. Wanted: 2 Notre Dame football banners tor 1970 Cotton Bowl vic­Girls! Here is your chance! I am a 
tory_ Size: 18" by 36"'. Will pay junior and the dashing young Navy reasonable price. Jay Wright, 219-Operations Officer. I request the 287 6084. honor of your company for the an­
nual Spring Navy Ball. Call Jerry,Help wanted. Pandora's Books, 233-8872. 2342. 
WANTED 

Need riders to Columbus, Ohio, FOR RENT
Friday. Call Brian. 287-3586. 


CAMPUS 
VIEW 

GJE and T\t\0 BEDR<X>M RJRNISHED NJARTMENTS 
il COMMUNITY BUILDING il INDOOR SWIMMING POOL • liASKETBALL COURT 
il  SHAG CARPET  
THE  STUDENTS OF NOTRE  
DAME & SAINT MARY'S.  CAMPUS  il  2 BATHS IN 2 BEDROOM APT  
VIEW IS SET  IN  A WOODED  il  ALL APPLIANCES COLOR  
SURROUNDING YET IS ONLY  COORDINATED  
3 BLOCKS  FROM NOTRE DAME.  il  SECURITY  
LOCATED JUST ONE BLOCK NORTH OF STATE RD. 23 OFF  il  SOUND CONDITIONED  
OF  WILLIS 'RD.  il  PRIVACY  

NOW RENTING FOR FALL SEMESTER ( '75 -'76 SCHOOL YEAR ) 
FOR RENTAL INFORMATION PHONE 272-1441 

Need qood home for personable cat Simon, over summer and '75-'76 school year. Call Arthur, 284-4857 or 289. 3270. 
FOR SALE 

Jensen model. 3 speakers. One mo. old. Must sell, best offer. Call Rich at 1175. 
3 speed bike excellent condition. Call Mary, 7953. 
D1rect from Santa Fe, New Mex. Handmade Indian jewelry: rings. crosses, bracelets. etc. Very well priced tor graduation or yourself. Call 287 0076 after 7. 
NOTICES 

Will do typing, experienced in themes. Contact Kay. rm 114, Psychology. 
Accurate. tast typing Northeast section of South Bend Reasonable. Phone 232 0746. 
NO SMC Council tor the Retarded. Saturday Rec, 9 am 11·30 am. Important meeting to follow. 
Men and women with two years of college left! Want to invest six weeks this summer and assure yourself a second career as an Army ott,cer upon graduation? Earn approximately $500 this summer and gain self confidence! No obligation. For information contact CPT Weimer at 283 6265 about Army ROTC Basic Camp. 
Fisher Hall presents a double party: skating party tonight 9:15-10:45 at A C. C. followed immediately by Hall Party at Fisher. Refreshments and music All ND and SMC girls ad m1tted free 
Want to get involved? Interested in working with international st1.1dents? Join the One Earth Marketplace workforce between April14to 19. Call Ravinder, 8842, or sogn up at the International Student office. 
1 bedroom furnished apartment. 2 blocks south of campus on ND Ave. Call 272-7656 or 272-6358 evenings. 
6 bedroom house tor rent. furnished tor next year within mile of
1 campus. 233 2613. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: one room key no. 419, one mailbox key, and one silver key. If found please call Pa 1tie. 4621 
PERSONALS 

If ever you want to kn1t Garments that realty don't tit, We'd say as a rule. You should call April Foot. 
11 he's out. then ask tor the Wit. 
Tee & Hee 
Panel discussion on "'Christian and Gay"' AprilS at 8:00pm in Library Auditorium. Presentat1on by Morton Kelsey 
Belle Starr will do her birthday dance live at Corby's Saturday' Come one and all. She doe'>n't want to '>Pend her 21'>t b day atone! 1 
Looking for '>omeone exciting? You'll meet him her at the BACK TO SPRING FLING. Held in Stepan Center, Friday. April 4, at 9:00p.m. Music by WIND. Admission $.75. 
Todd, A belated birthday wish. In the Year of Our Lord 1954, you were born, the second child of an unassuming Schenectady couple. And now, 21 years tater, you're still alive and 
doing oh so fine. Congratulations and Happy Birth­day. Strungloose 
For sate: 60 copies of The Inane Imperative. featuring step by step threats tor the .nfamous N D 60's dance "'The 15 Minute Shuffle." 
There i'> going to be an old fashioned 60's style demonstration. Look tor us and join in. 
Abbie Hoffman 
.. 


• 
Irish face Marian indoubleheader 
by Rich Odioso defensive miscues. Hopefully as the weather warms
Fresh from their rain-shortened and the team sees more outdoor"3-3 Texas trip the Irish baseball practice, the infield, including theteam opens up its regular season pitching staff, should tighten upSunday with a twin bill at Marian defensively. One bright spot in the in Indianapolis. Notre Dame met field for Notre Dame was theMarian on the diamond for the first previously untested catching oftime ever last year and crushed Tony Iarocci and Dave Doemelthe Knights 13-4. Coach Jake Kline which allowed only two stolenis hopeful of a similar performance bases in the six games.
in Sunday's 1 p.m. doubleheader. The Irish indicated that they are 
Offensively the team produced a two-thirds on the way to being a 
.256 batting average not bad for winning baseball team receiving 
early in the season. Of the excellent pitching and adequate 
regulars first baseman Mark Sch­hitting onthe trip. But in their first mitz, shortstop Jim Smith and extended action outdoors the Irish 
centerfielder Stan Bobowski hit suffered num berous defensive 
over .300 while pitcher-designated lapses. Six different starters hitter Bob Stratta had three timely combined on the hits for six rbi's. Pitcher Mitch 
\ , trip to limit hostile bats to less than Stoltz has been claiming he can hit five hits a game. The ND mound and given a chance responded with corps posted a sparkling 0.69 ERA 3for 4 including a pinch-hit homer. but 12 Irish errors in the six games Newcomers Dave Doemel and along with the incessant rain Frank Fiascki had some key hits in dampened Notre Dame's hope for limited action. a winning trip. Of 17 opposition The Irish home opener is 
THE IRISH will try to retain their excellent pitching and tighten up their defense in the regular season
runs on the trip only three were scheduled for Wednesday with 
opener at Marian College this Sunday.
earned indicating not only the Valparaiso. After a day off ND 
five days including a three-game upcoming home schedule includes 
abundance but poor timing of the starts a string of seven games in Irish will visit such hi2hlv 
home weeke~d ser!es with Bradl.ey 1974 NCAA regional participant regarded foes as Illinois State 
and a Cartier F1eld clash w1th Cincinnati and Big Ten rival Bowling Green and Michiga~Northwestern on Monday. The Michigan State. On the road the State. 
John Carrico: winning
*Observer 
because he hates to lose 
by John Vincent








Sports 
John Carrico's size is deceiving. Looking at his 6-3, 200 lb. frame you would probably guess that he played football or hockey. If you guessed hockey you would be partially correct. He was an all-state star in hockey for two years while in high school and he also 
played on the Irish junior varsity squad. But the rest of the answer is that Carrico is the captain of the 1975 Notre Dame tennis team. 
Golf tean1 finishes 
8th in Golf Classic 
·-r made the choice to con­centrate on tennis when I was a by Tom Kruczek excellent leadership from the two freshman," says Carrico. "I lovedcaptains and we now have the hockey but I knew that I couldn'tDespite the cold weather and wet confidence to do well in the coming do both. I had more experience
conditions that prevail this time of matches and the remainder of the and talent as a tennis player so Ithe year in South Bend, Coach Noel schedule, "O'Sullivan concluded. 
stuck with that."

O'Sullivan and the Notre Dame "The trip was very important to TENNIS TEAM Captain John Carrico has won 3 of his 4 matches 
Irish head coach Tom Fallon is
golf team have already begun the us, and we did well." . this season. 
glad that he did. In three years of
first part of their spring schedule. spot. His only loss came at the occasion."
The Irish must now readjust to 


The Irish finished in 8th place out the northern conditions, both in varsity competition John has hands of Indiana State's Curt Besides his competitive spirit,accumulated 44 victories while
of 19 teams in the GAC In­weather and the type of course they Williams 6-2, 6-4. His victories Carrico possesses an excellent tercollegiate Golf Classic in Capre will encounter. In the south, the alternating between the fourth and were convincing ones such as a 6-3, serve. "John is probably the Coral, Florida over the spring courses are generally composed of fifth position. 6-3 decision over Oral Roberts' strongest server on the squad,"break. The golfers performance a different strain of grass, causing An accounting major from Lake Robyn Goo! and a 6-1, 3-6, 6-3 win maintains Fallon." "He also has a was especially satisfying to problems in putting. Also the Forest, Ill. Carrico took to the over John Mongure of Colorado well rounded game to go along with 
O'Sullivan because the Irish had southern courses have more courts when he was 15. "I got College. int." less than a full week of adequate sandtraps than most northern interested in the sport through my Still, Carrico finds 'LQm for
In doubles action Carrico has
conditions here to prepare for the layouts. The Cape Coral Country father's involvement as chairman improvement. "My size has been apaired with fellow senior Chrisevent. 
Club had 108 traps, compared to 70 of the U.S. Junior Davis Cup 
disadvantage at times," he ad­Kane to record a 4-1 mark with
Notre Dame began the 72-hole at the Burke Memorial. competition, adds Carrico. "He mits, "so I always have to work on
event with a four man score of 315, their only loss being to Glenn 
was the one who taught me the
The first home match of the year my quickness. Sometimes my
after one round of competition. Johnson and Rob Dowling of
most about the game." His father 
was scheduled to take place on serve helps me a great deal."
This was good enough for tenth Bowling Green 3-6, 7-6, 7-5.
is now the president of the United
Aprill against Tri-State, but due to What does the future hold for theplace in the first day standings. 
confusion on Tri-State's part, t the States Lawn Tennis Association. Playing in the number one senior captain~ "I'm engaged to
,-,; The second day, the golfers fired match was scheduled for the Carrico continued with tennis singles slot this season doesn't be married in July. As far as a jobtheir best total for the tourney, a 
12-<>ver par 300 which moved the following day. That was the day throughout high school lettering in cause Carrico to feel any ad­is concerned I have a position lined the snows hit, and the match was the sport for three years, while ditional pressure. "Most schools
J Irish two notches into 8th. In the up with a CPA firm." 
.( cancelled. Next on the schedule is captaining the squad his senior havee a real good number one
third and fourth rounds the golfers The 1975 campaign will be an 
.if finished with 312, and 313, a dual meet against Indiana year at Lake Forest High. player and I like that because as I interesting and important one for
:;, 'I respectively. University on April 4 at In his first year with Notre Dame said I like to compete. You just the Irish. But then, no one realizesBloomington.
Individually co-captain Jeff Carrico compiled an impressive realize that you have to rise to the that like John Carrico. Burda finished in 26th place out of 16-4 record while playing in the

Bookstore B-ball 
114 competitiors with a four round number six spot. That same 
total of 17 over par 305. Behind • t"} season he combined with Paul Men's crew defeated by
Burda was Paul Koprowski with a Slgn-ups go un 1 Reilly in second doubles to capture 
also the longest drive contest, unwinding a m1 n1g On ay As a sophomore John recorded a 
310. Koprowski won •d • ht M d 17 matches· out of 20. Fordham; women win 
268 yard shot into a prevailing win$) 
Entries are now being taken for the 17-10 mark and last season he was 
dham 's varsity time.

on the lOth hole of the Cape Coral The scene was not so glamorous
1975 Bookstore Basketball Tour-11-6.
Country Club. Koprwoski was five for Notre Dame's rowing club over Only I<'ordham and ND raced in 
nament An Tostal's version of "Last year's club was the best
yards ahead of his nearest the spring break as it was for some the novice division, with the Rams 
Hoosier' Hysteria. To sign up, since I've bee~ here," says sarrico
challenger. After Koprowski it other Irish squads. Instead of winning by 28.5 seconds. 
contact Vince Meconi 151 of the 18-2 Insh squad. I was
was in order Rich Knee with a 317 competing in the warm tem­The Irish women's varsity
Morrissey. phone 3470.' The disappointed ~n my p~rforma_nce,
Eddie Whelan 319, co­peratures of Florida or California lightweight boat defeated Prin­
deadline for entries is midnight though. That IS why th1s year IS so
captain Mike Kistner 320 and Jum or Texas they spent their vacation ceton's lightweight on Lake
Monday, April 7th. important to me. This is my last
Cuiveyhouse 321. in Soutn Bend practicing, then Carnegie. Princeton's heavywight
All graduate and undergraduate, chance and I want to do well. I like 
O'Sullivan was quite pleased moved <>n to New York and New had no ND heavyweight opponent, 
ND and SMC men and women are to compete and I hate to lose no
with the teams performance. "We Jersey for races. but it finished only five seconds ah­
eligible to participate. There is no matter what."
did very well, in that we beat all of Contending on the Harlem River -ead of the Irish lightweight boat.
limit to the number of teams that Coach Fallon agrees. "John is
the eastern and northern teams against Fordham University and The ND women's novice boat did 
may enter. Teams must consist of extremely competitive. He is a
that we faced. The only teams we Iona State for the "Ewald Cup", a not win against Princeton,
5 players only. The tournament hard worker and a very likeable

lost to were from l''lorida or from prize they captured last year, the finishing five seconds after their the south." The head coach also novice boat.
runs from Friday Aprilll fellow. He gets along well with 
men's team ran up against a toughpointed out that the Irish easily through Friday, April 18. peopl~. They respect him. ! think Ram boat and lost the cup in the This weekend the men's crew sailed by two Big-Ten opponents, Like last year, trophies to be that ~s why they chose h1m as varsity eight race. They finished travels to Michigan to race agianst
Michigan and Northwestern, awarded include: Winning team, captam." 
third behind Iona State. Grand Valley State, while theb€ating each by over 40 strokes. MVP, "Mr. Bookstore", "All-As far as early matches are However, ND won the varsity women will be hosting MichiganBut the one point that made bookstore team team " Best Team concerned Carrico is off to a good four race, with Fordham placing State, Purdue and Holy Trinity onO'Sullivan happiest was that the name "Hot Dog Awa'rd," and the start. In their spring trip to second and Iona St. third. Also, the Saturday. Heats for the women'sIrish finished just 9 strokes out of "rag award," given to the in-Galveston Island ~pec_tac~lar he Irish junior varsity defeated those race begin at 11:45 a.m., on the St. 
7th place and 11 away from 6th. dividual who is the best referee-reeled off three v1ctor1es m four two teams, notching a time only Joseph's River, with the finals
"We played well because we had baiter matches while playing in the top three seconds slower than For-taking place at 1:00 p.m. 







