




2 
the obse 
INSIGHTS· 
One of the CIA•s newest lines of business is· selling tickets for rock ·concerts, ac­conling to the latest issue of Rolling Stone 
·magazine. · Employees at l the CIA's Langley, t Virginia/headquarters can take advantage of Washington's unique fringe benefits by buying their tickets at a top-secret Ticketron outlet administered by the CIA's employee actitivty assoication . An internal Ticketron ·memo , gives In-' structions that there is to be no publicity about• the tiA outlet, or a similar one ad­ministered by the national security agen­cy's civilian welfare fund at the Fort George Meade, Maryland office. 
* 

Gureillas operatini on the Tanzanian border in Zaire, Africa, kidnapped three 
' Stanford University students and a Dutch girl from a research station in northwestern Tanzania on May 19. 
Stanford University does not wish to pay the $500,00 ransom demand by the guerillas. But a professor representing the university said, "Stanford certainly would not stand in the way of private individuals who would want to raise funds." · 
•· 

Thousands of young people are suffering from whiplash because they "are tossing and jerking their heads to fling their hair in place," according to a doctor in San Francisco. .. "The constant motion is causing severe damage to their spines and thus an upsurge in headaches." 
* 

University of Michigan researchers who studied 23 occupations across America have reported that a boring job can be the worst health hazard a worker faces. 
Job dissatisfaction, according to the report, turns to unhealthy strain, which manifests itself in the form of anxiety, depression, tension, boredom and worry. 
Job stress also includes work that is too hard, too complex, or produces a situation where the worker does 119t know what is expected of him. 
* 

The security industry, always on the alert for new elements in crime prevention, has developed these devices: • 
-A ray gun the size of a flashlight, that shoots an eh~ctric charge guaranteed to knock down and hold down a 300-pound attacker. It penetrates more than an inch of 
· clothing and is effective at a distance of 15 to 20 feet. 
•A lipstick device that lets out a shriek that can be heard a mile away. It can also blast the eardrums of an obscene phone caller. 
* 

"And finally .... " (as they say on the big news shows), a recent graduate from the-. University of Texas, recieving a doctorate in sociology, has sent a resume to the city of San Francisco. He is applying for a position as a str~etsweeper. 
"I hear they pay $17,000 a year to some sanitation workers. H these rumors are true," he wrote, "please send application forms. I will be out of a job in July and have no prospects with a salary approaching my needs." 
* 

"It might come in handy if Hitler ever tries to ditch you, "an SS General told Eva Braun abouta film of her and the Feurher aL play. Parts of the film were tak.en by secret cameras set up in the Bavarian home of Eva and Adolf, by his good friends Bormann and Rimmler. They were quick enough to catch glimpses of the mustached one entering Eva's private bath as she emerged "au naturel." 
A documentary, .put together by a German distributer and a group of former SS officers, currently hiding in South America, has become the object 'of heavy bidding between British and American film companies. No one seems to know exactly why the footage was taken ·but there are some scenes of the two in, as the advertising for the picture claims, "intimate poses." 
*** 



Phil 
Kline 
r 

HAIR STYLISTS 
RICH ALLEN) 

Grimmer 
'I 
I' 
SPECIALIZING 
IN RED KEN. 

PRODUCTS., NOW LOCATED AT' 
I 
~VIVIAN's 
232-2194 

Visit the House Of Something Better 
1602 S. MICHIGAN St. S.B. 287-5310 
Large Variety Of Health 
~ 
Foods including non-meaf protiens. 10% discount on all 
r 
vitamins and food supplements this week with Universify 1.0. 




KEN'S DEN 

Hairstylin·g· 
-Award winning stylists -Unique atmosphere -Roffler Styling and Products 
Across from 700 Center 
(Lincol.nway West) in·Mishawaka 
PHONE 255-6500 Appointments preferred 
f 203 no. michigan st. south bend, indiana 

SUMMER SERIES for Adults &~NO , Young People LITTLE THEATRE (Moreau Hall, St. Mary's College)SMC AIR CONDITIONED THEATRE Phone: 284-4176SUMMER 1975  
SUBSCRIPTION SERIES SPECIAl. RATE: Four Plays $9.50 Regular rC"<te $2.• 75 each  
SLEUTH Area premiere of Shaffer's tense mystery June 20, 21, 27,128 at 8:00P.M. ·-INHEniT THE W~ND . Lawre~ce and Lee's dramatrc account of the trial of the century in celebration of the country's !99th birthday . July 4, 5, 11, 12 at 8:00 P.M. ARMS Al\iO THr: MAN Bernard Shaw's delightful romantic comedy Jl."!y 18, 19, 25, 26 at 8:00 P.M. TEN NIGHTS IN A BARROOM A musical version of William Pratt's famed 19th ~entury temperance melodrama July 31, Aug. 1, 2 at 8:00P.M.  
THEATRE FOR YOUNG PEOPLE • • Participatory Plays for the Young • • JACK AND THE BEANSTALK (Weds. & Sots.) Juf'e 25, 28, July 2, 5, 9 at 2:0()-P.M. TALES FROM MOTHER GOOSE (Weds. & Sats.). July 12, 16, 19, 23, 26 at 2:00 P.M. THEATRE FOR YOUNG PEOPU-ALL SEATS .75  

SPECIAL GROUP RATE AVAILABLE 'FOR GROUPS OF 20 OR MO.RE 
.,....... 
. . ,.~. 

"'' •' '• " -..'.-. r 
Thursday 1 June 121 1975 the observer 



Fire erupts in O'ShaughneSSy 

by Andy Praschak Associate Editor 
A fire erupted on the third floor of O'Shaughnessy Hall on May twentieth, causing damage in the area of $5000, ac­cording to .Brother Borromeo, Fire Chief of the Notre Dame Fire Department. The fire, started around ten o'clock in the morning and was confined to the three rooms of the Sociology Department. "No serious injuries or loss of extremely valuable papers ov­vured," said Borromeo. 
While Borromeo contends that the fire was started because a secretary replaced a burnt out 20 amp fuse with a 30 amp one, the two secretaries involved claimed that they had been smelling peculiar odors from the air conditioner prior to the incident. "It was a really hot day and all the air conditioners were on, probably causing an overload in the wires" said Loretta Budzinski, one of the secretaries. 
Borromeo explained that the Fire Station first learned of the fire when an alarm was called in over the telephone. However, Florence Lawrence, the other secretary involved, claims that fire alarms in O'Shaughnessy were pulled, with no war­ning buzzer or bell being sounded. 
"It was then that we finally found the 6600 
number for the fire department and called it," Lawrence said. She went on to explain that after they called the number they waited and waited while the fire got bigger and bigger. Budzinski placed the arrival time of the fire trucks at about fifteen munutes after the call while Lawrence said her guess would be about ten munutes. 
"They explained that they, at first assumed 
this was just another false alarm, not unlike 
the many other they rey receive every day," said Budzinski. 
Describing the scene following the arrival of the Notre Dame fire Department, both secretaries agreed it was a "Comedy of Errors." When they first arrived it seemed like the Notre Dame firemen just ambled up the stairs to the third floor, according to Budzinski. "They came up to the third floor, decided it was too dark in the room, went back to get a flashlight and upon returning to the fire saw that it was too big for them to put out," said Lawrence. 
Borromeo explained that the Notre Dame , started had they been properly trained tofire department was able to put out most of the fire with one of their trucks. Howe'ver, use the extinguishers provided in O'Shaughnessy Hall. "I've been working attwo South Bend engines, a ladder truck and Notre Dame for twenty-two years and Ithe rescue squad were present at the scene. 
have never once been given any type of

Both Budzinski and Lawrence feel con­fident that they would have been able to instructions to follow in the event of the fire," complained Budzinske. Lawrence,extinguish the fire themselves when it first 

THE FIRE began in the Sociology Dept. storeroom and began to spread throughout the department. 

' 
Now aBose Direct/Reflecting bookshelf speaker and its under $100. 
If you thought it couldn't be done, you don't know BOSE. Because the new BOSE MODEL 301 speaker is just that. A bookshelf speaker that provides reflected and direct sound performance in the tradition of the internationally-famous BOSE 901® and 501 speakers. 
It provides such astounding performance for its size that, frankly, it's hard to believe that this speaker costs under $100. But it does. And, it's easy to place and can be adapted to all room environments. 
Come in this week and ask to hear a demonstration of the new BOSE MODEL 301 Direct/ Reflecting® bookshelf speaker system. You really won't believe it ... until you hear it. 
~ 

421 North Hickory Rd. (WEST OF TOWN & COUNTRY I-SHOPPING CENTER) . 
Scottsdale Mall 
I who has been employed at Notre Dame for thirteen years explained that at least some type of fore drill should be done once in a while. "We are really lucky that this Ihappened during the summer and the lower two floors were not filled with students, as ti would have been during the school year" 
1 she said. ' 
Lawrence also noted that everyone can be I thankvul that O'Shaughnessy is one of the 'few buildings that has fire walls on it. "Next 
time we'll know to shut the doors between 
the rooms," she said. "However, it is un­
fortunate that we are forced to learn this , type of thing through experience," shEl added' 
Lawrence also revealed that a test taken 
after the fire confirmed her susp'icions that 
an overload was coming into O'Shaughnessy 
Hall. She explained that she was told by 
some workmen cleaning up after the fire 
that if this type of thing was ever going to 
happen again it would be in Holy Cross Hall 
<An undergraduate dorm> because of the , faulty wiring system in that building. 
"After the fir_e was completely ex­
tinguished, they had to go and poke out all 
our windows," said Lawrence. "I don't 
know why they have to do that but firemen 
always seem to want to poke out the win­
dows," she added. 
Budzinski and Lawrence explained that in 
the event of another fire they know exactly 
what to do ... "bypass the Notre Dame fire 
department and call directly to the one in 
South Bend,"they said confidently. 

I SARLO PLAYHOUSE 
"ID0 ,, ID0 II thru June 29 
1"Fantastiks " July and August 
I 
At TINKER'S DAM: MICHIGANICITY,!IND. 
I Reserv. (219) 879-7.373 


.­
-~----~---

ThursdaY , June 12, 1975
the observer
4 
Parietal controversy rages 
by Fred Graver\ Editor-in-Chief . 
Two seniors ' were caught violating parietals in Cavanaugh Hall on May 11, one week before graduation, by Father Matthew Miceli, Rector of Cavanaugh. 
The students claim that Fr. Miceli was "selective" in his decision to enter certain rooms to look for violators. 
"His decision to enter the first 
room was provoked by his general 1 
The students involved in the 
suspicion of the person who live there," said one student involved in the case. 
Fr. Miceli discovered on the night previous to the raid that a room had been left vacant by a senior a few weeks before graduation, and that the senior had left the keys to the room for his friends to use. 
Fr. Miceli suspected the student of drug use, and had reported him to the Dean of Students at one time, according to an R.A. in the hall. 
The points of the case, as stated to the seniors by Dean of Students John Macheca, said that Fr. Miceli, "knocked, didn't hear anything, entered_ saw the student and a girl under the covers, and it was at least evident that you had no tops on." 
The student claims that Fr. Miceli did not knock, and the first sign they had that someone was about to enter the room was the rattling of the key chain outside the door. 
After entering the room, Fr. Miceli told the two to step into the hallway, where he asked the girl her name and told the student to see him in the morning. 
After leaving Cavanaugh, the student and the girl called several 
·. 
-

friends in the hall who they thought I 
may be caught by Fr. Miceli. The first phone call was too late, as Fr. Miceli had already entered the room. 
The second student claims that the Rector did not knock on the door, entering instead by key. He held a flashlight on the couple and asked, "What's going on in here?" 
After attempting to answer his question, the couple was instructed by Fr. Miceli to step into the corridor, where he asked the girl her name and told the student to see him in the morning. The two then left the hall. 
Upon entering a third room, Fr. Miceli found a student, fully clothed, sitting in his armchair, reading. Fr. Miceli spoke with him briefly and then left the room. 
After the Rector had left the room, the student told a girl standiog in a locker in the room 
that "The coast is clear," ~nd the tow of them left\ The students claim that, by the 
fact that they were able to in-I tercept Fr. Miceli in two rooms by : calling their friends, it appears 
that he was trying to catch a .. 
I certain group of people. "He never liked me or my friends," one of the students claimed. 
"He was always coming up to.the room, trying to find any chance to pick us up," another student said. 
parietals case point to a similar 
violation last year, in which Fr. Miceli allowed a student who had "family connections" with the Rector to get off with a warning. The next day, when the students went to speak with Fr. Miceli he informed them that he would, "have to tell the Ad­ministration about this." He told the students that, "this is a lesson 1 you have to learn. You seniors think you can get away with things just because you're graduating." 
One of the students requested that Fr. Miceli handle the case outside of the Administration of­fices. "This would just hurt my family," he told the Rector, "why can't we just settle it between you and I?" 
Fr. Miceli replied that he was 
following the rules established for 
such a case, and had no alter­
native. 

To this, the student replied, 
"Then I'm going to the Dean of 
Students office and tell them what 
a jerk you are." 

"I guess I was pretty mad at 
him, and shouldnt have started in 
like_ that," the student later 
commented, "but when I left his 
room I saw him come out and 
practically run to the Ad­
ministration Building. I followed 
him, and saw him go to (Dean of 
Stud~ntsl Macheca's. office. He~:~~n:~=~eh=~~~J~~:he:a~o:~~
I'm sure he was out to ----me over." 
Later, when the other student 

~~~l~~~~i~~~.c~:~~~~~;~:~
a few people were mvolved m the parietals raid, "when on the fourth I I • I 

floor alone there were eight . couples,andtherehadtobefifteen or twenty others in the hall." "Why did you pick on just us?" the student asked. 
st:t~.m~~ta~et~~f/~~~il;t~~:~}:
"none of that is true. I didn't know anything when I was checking 1those rooms." 

\ stJ:e~:a~~n~ft: !~: r~~~nt~~ 
Students John Macheca, who in­
formed them of the points of the case against them. The only evidence he had was that the students had been caught after visitation hours in their rooms with girls, and that they appeared to have had nothing covering the top portions of their bodies. 
Dean Macheca informed the students that he would have them work on the grounds crew for three days, and told them they would have to give $250 to the World Hunger fund within a year. 
He then told the students that Fr. 

Miceli had said the students would 
have to leave the hall. One of the 
students asked Dean Macheca if it 
would be possible for them to leave 
for the week, and then come back 
for the weekend of graduation, to 
avoid embarrasment with their 
parents. Macheca agreed to ask 
Father Miceli for permission to do 
this. 
On the second day of work on the 

grounds crew, the two students 
were given letters from Dean 
Macheca, informing them that all 
of their belongings were to be 
removed that afternoon, and that 
they could never come back to 
Cavanaugh. 
One of the seniors claims that 

the decision to remove the two 
students totally was Fr. Miceli's. 
"Macheca gave us every break 
that he could," he said, "con­
sidering his position as an ad­
ministrator, and the fact that we 
broke his rules." 
When contacted for comment on 

the case, Fr. Miceli replied "I 
don't want to talk about that just 
now. There are some things that 
are still pending. I don't want to 
put anything in the paper about 
that." 
Dean Macheca informed the 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I I I I ·. I 

THIS WEEK ONLY (with this cou-pon) I 
.. ,_ 288-ll78 I .A FULL SERVICE IJECORD STOllE 
I 
I NEXT TO RIVER II 2923 MISH. AVE~ . PARK THEATRE I 
r:...........~,:....................................................,..................,
·--------------------------­
~ . NOW APPEARING~ ! 
~ N ; "THE BRUCE i
I ---ICARR SHOW"i
I D I STARTING MONDAY'I 
~ § "ALBATROSS II §
I 
iiiiiiiiP.I1111111111IIIIIIIIIDIIIMIIIHIIIIUIIIIIII.i 
I 
I
I 
! 
~ 
~ 
~ 
I ~ 
I
u I 
I~ 


iTHE WHITE HOUSE! 

reporter that he could not meet with him to discuss the case. 
I..............................................................................................~






r--------------------------­
1

I STILL HUNTING FOR AN 
I

I I1APARTMEN·.T FOR NEXT YEAR ? 11 
_-WI"PH DAILy SPECIALS -I MON. & WED. "DRINK & DROWN" 
I 
TUESDAY "TEQUILA NIGHT" 
I 
THURSDAY "PITCHER BEER NIGHT"~ 
SUNDAY "LADIES NIGHT" ~ 
I ~ 
2839 N. 5th St. NILES 

----------------------~ 
let the Army 
help youwith college. 
Last year, 90,000 young people like yourself earned college credits in the Army. 
They attended classes on post. They studied at nearby colleges and universities. And they took courses through our various correspondence pro· grams. And the Army paid for up to 75% of their tuition costs. 
And after your enlistment's over, you're entitled to 36 months financial assistance at colleges through­out the country. . 
Our educational benefits are in addition to the job training you'll receive, the salary you'll earn, .and the travel opportunities you'll have. 
If you'd like to find out more about all the educa-1 tional benefits the Army has to offer, see or call your local Army Represent~tive. 
Call Army Sgt. S_t_()_~~_L_ Sgt. Veach,. Sgt_~_G_rJte_o __ . .23~·1616 
> 

Join the people who've joined the Army. 
I ­

-1
1 CAMPUS VIEW ONE AND TWO 
I

I BEDROOM FURNISHED APARTMENTS I
I ­
I LOOK WHAT WE 1
I I
1

1 

1 HAVE T 0 0 F FER: I
il ·1 I I 
I * 2 TENNIS COURTS II * INDOORISWIMMING POOL ~1I * COMMUNITY BUILDING ·· I 
1 

1 * oEAD~"s0LT L'0CKS pinball machine) ! 

i1 *!sK;~:~~~R~NT SEC~~~!~ARPETING .iI 
I * 2 BATHS IN THE 2 -BEDROOM *.DISHWASHERS I
I 
I APTS. II * SO~ND CONDITIONED * PRIYACY ' I 
t 
I * REGULAR SOCIAL ACTIVITIES * LAUNDRY FA'(:ILITIES . I 

11 NoW RENTING FQR sliMMER ~No FALL s-EMESTER ! 1 · . . ('75 ... '76 SCHOOL Y~A~} ---< : · ­
I 
I' FOR RENTAL INFORMATION CALL 272-I.Ul' 
. """ ·I ~ ' • 
~-~-----­


The five children ranged in age from 7 to 10. They sat at small tables in the library, a room containing a few chairs, a few tables, and an overwhelming number of books in wall bookcat;es. 
All five were first-grade failures. They were reading books written for sixth-graders. Occasionally the teacher interrupted the reading to ask a question. From the answere, it was clear that the children understood what they were reading. 
, Meanwhile, at one end of the corridor outside the library, a group 
! of eight youngsters who had just come from a spelling class were arranging themselves on the floor ina semi-circle around Julie Rupp, a teacher's aide and herself a student at Indiana University at South Bend. Like the students in the library, these youngsters had all "flunked" first grade.
I They took a disorderly but enthusiastic vote on which book they wanted to read. "Tar Baby"won, and soon they were ready to follow, in their own copies of the book, the teacher's reading of the B'rer Rabbit tale. 
"Follow along," said Julie. "If you don't find the words, don't 1 worry; I'll tell you when to turn the page." 
The school is formally known as ·the Primary Day School but is more often called Sister Marita's School. Located on the second floor of a building at 1024 W. Thomas St. on South Bend's west side, it has 24 pupils. One of the admission requirements is academic failure in the first grade at ordinary school. 
Sister Marita 's is no ordinary school, and Julie Rupp is no or­dinary teacher's aide. She is not, for one thing, working toward a degree in education. She is an !USB senior in psychology who hopes to complete a bachelor's degree next December. 
Her position is a paid one. She got the job through the servdces os the IUSBProfessional Practice Program, a service geared to place junior and senior students in jobs which broaden their educaion by relating the work world to classroom studies. 
Junie's job at the Primary Day School is to support the teaching 1 staff. "I read a story to the children," she explains; "a story that ' contains words they'~!-soon be learning. I explain the words and 
the story as we go along. "Or I read a story they've already read themselves, making sure they're all reading and understan ding what they 
She also works with the children on vocabulary, spelling, mathematics and science. The curriculum at Sister Marita 's School is the same as that in any area school, although the ap­proach is noticeably different. Unlike most schools, the children are grouped by abilities and capabilities rather than by grades or age levels. There is strong emphasis on reading and the language arts. The youngsters are encouraged to succeed; when they miss phrase they are'prodded to try harder, and each success is rein­forced by praise. 
The children are normally boisterous and alert, but they are not rowdy. Discipline problems are almost non-existent. They are clearly interested in their classwork. 
The Primary Day School has been functioning in South Bend for seven years. It is currently funded through Model Cities, and it.has enjoyed some United Way support as well. Private donations also help keep it going. Children have no re-entry problems when they finish three years at the school and return to traditional classrooms, according , to the school's faculty. 
Julie Rupp works 25 hours a week at Sister Marita's. During the spring semester just ending, she also took 13 credit-hours of college coursework at !USB, and she put in another two hours a week of volunteer activity at Northern Indiana State Hospital as part of a class assignment. 
She is one of more than three dozen IUSB students who were placed during the spring semester by the Professional Practice Program. There are biology majors working at Miles Laboratories, a fine arts major working at the South Bend Tribune, 
'chemistry majors working at the city's Wastewater Treatment Plant, a political science major working for the Urban League, and accounting majors working in the area's accounting firms. 
AI Oppenheimer, Professional Practice Program director, stresses the relationship between work and classroom which the program is designed to support. "The point is not simply to find a student a job, but to find a job which fits into the student's academic and career goals -a job that will let the student test classroom theory inthe real world and, at the same time, reinforce the validity of what the student is learning at !USB." 
Julie Rupp thinks her job fits that concept nicely. "I can use what I'm doing at Sister Marita's in my !USB course work. Everything I'm learning as a psychology major comes together on the job; the classroom and the job experience really relate." 
That's the point of the Professional Practice Program. It operates on the sound theory that the classroom and the job can be equally valid learning experiences. 
"This is a relatively new program at !USB, but student interest in it has been gratifying," says Oppenheimer. "For students who have not yet explored what the program offers, now is the time to make arrangements for a professional-practice experience in the summer or fall." 
Some students, like Julie Rupp, add to academic credit for their 
work experience by doing reports, papers and other assignments 
under the supervision of an IUSB faculty member. · To most students, however, the real reward is neither the pay 
they get nor the college credit, but the satisfaction of putting their 
/ND -IUSB 
THE RESUME PLACE 25 RAG BOND ONLY $2.55 

insly·prints 
203 N. MAIN 
SO.BEND, IND 
; 289-.69.7.-7


education to work in the real world 
Rasmussen selected lor Academic post 
Karen Rasmussen, assistant professor of history, has been elected chairperson of the Academic Senate at Indiana University at South Bend. 
She will take office at the beginning of the 1975-76 academic year in August, succeeding George 
A. Wing, professor of business administration and economics. 
Also elected to office in the faculyy body are-Wayne J. Kreppel, associate professor of education, vice-{!hairperson, and John J. Withey, assistant professor of business administration, secretary. 
Four faculty members were chosen to serve on the senate's executive committee next year: Nicole Z. Domingue, assistant professor of English; Donna B. Harlan, !USB librarian; Victor L. Riemenschneider, assistant professor of biology, and Wing. 
Sauer Braten Ser¥ed· 

Hans Hau-s 
2803 South Michigan Street-Phone 291-5522 
German FOQd Our Specialty 
Created with Old World Atmosphere. Specializing In Garman and American Foods. 
• ~th Band'• Finan S.nquat Room~ 
The Alpilw & Bavarilln Rooms Open 10:30 ••m. to 10:30 p.m.-Closed Sundays and Holld•y~ 
'STARTS TOMORROW Times: 1:45, 3:45, 5:45: ?:45, 9:45 
Squart Produc11ons 
fXK THEATER LOBBY FOR DETAILS ON OUR 'BENJI' CONTES 

WHAT AATRECORD•.S 



fMlLA~~~~Le~zzA:J 'BOOGIE RECORD~·A 
I 'so. BE~~ 
t SIT DOWN SERVICE t RENTING FOR PARTIESI ~Ew HOURs It 
MON. -THURS. 11 :00-11:00 p.m. 
I FRI. and SAT. 1'1:00-.l:OOa.m. 
OUR ENTIRE STOCK . r\ 
(THURS 6-12 THRU SUN. 6-15) 

REGULARLY PRICED $3.99 and $4.99 

NOW s04T'.0FF''LIST...., 

REGULARL ~ $5.99 • $6.99 • ~8.9.9 
"/<LIST 7.98) /<LIST 9.98) !(LIST 7.98) 


NOW $1.00 OFF 
.L E 
1

t -CLOSED SUNDAYS-BOOGIE RECORDS 9198 College Square t ·Phone 255·0266 1 Mishawaka, Ind. ­f· TRY OUR COAST EAST COAST PIZZA . <ACROSS FROM TOWN & COUNTRY) 
' "YOUR SEVENi-DAY·A·WEEK MUSIC -STORE 

~ 

----·---------------------------------------. 

••-;.·" ·.,.~o.. ..., t.\·.·•htr*'i•. it:'~i''"" •. 14jj-=t~h~e~o~b~sie~rv~e~r====~~~~Th~u~~;;ay~,J;u;M~1~2,~t~t7~5~~~~~~~--....~ 
TONY'S SHOE REPAIR 
HAND MADE SANDALS TO YOUR 
SPECIFICATIONS. SELL WORLD'S 
lEATHER SHOES.PICK YOUR STYLE




iusb 

NOW LOCATED BEHIND BADIN HALL OPEN: 8 a.m. -4:30 p.m. M~F
String
IUSB

Williams 8 a.m.-1 p.m.1 SAT. 'to hold. ·~. 
283-1144 .
,quartet toto· publish. 

QUICK SERVICE & REASONABLE PRICES

Conference 
\reside at.'IUSB

IUSB newspaperj 

Williams will be one ofthe '#:!=====================:::!~1~-=-:•=:•=:•~-~-=-~-~-=-:!•:•=:•::•:•=:•=:•:•=:•=:•:!•:!•=:•~-:-=..:! 
IUSB's newspaper, Tbe PREFACE ', will have a consulting ' publisher starting with the 1975-76 academic year. 
Thomas Williams, National and Foreigh News editor of the South Bend Tribune, will be the first publisher in IUSB's history. 
Williams will-have three main • duties as publisher of the : PREFACE: 
l) 
He will carry the respon­sibilities of the paper except for editorial policies and other related editorial functions. 

2) 
He will provide for one day a week on the job and be available for counseling of the paper ac­


. tivities at any time. 
3) He will critique (weekly) the editorial product of student efforts, · giving professional guidance and feedback which will help make journalism a learning experience for everyone on the PREFACE 
\ staff. 

williams has worked at the South Bend Tribune for almost sevenyears. Duringthattime,he
has worked as a police and cour~ reporter, a copy and specia~ editions editor, and now he is thE!j
National news editor. He knows aU of the fundamental and demandin~ 
tasks of a newspaper. . j Williams teaches Mass Com­munications at IUSB. He has 
written and lectured on the\ . phenomena of New Journalism i 1 <Marshall McLuhan) and elec-
I 

tronic media, which he believes ,. are changing the atmosphere of the environment around society. 
feature lecturers in the South Bend Writer's conference, June 23-27,, 1975 at IUSB. He will be teaching the article writing workshop and will have a seminar on Mass 
1 Communications. 

MAT 

10605 Chester Ave. Cleveland, Ohio 44106 
;-<.~you're not a baby machine. 

If you have a negative pregnancy test, and your period is not over 14 days late, our licensed, qualified staff doctors can remove the menses by vacuum aspiration, in about 3 minutes I Bring on, shorten, or schedule your period. 
... 
Menstrual Regulation is a safe, simple method of "morning after., birth control, 
-which we hope 1will totally replace the still experimental, definitely dangerous 
'"Morning After Pill", Menstrual· regulation saves the worry and expense of 
terminating a confirmed, more advanced pregnancy. With menstrual regulation, you'll never know for sure If you were pregnant. Patients under 18 must be aCCOmpanied by a parent or ~Uardian, Or bring notarized PREGNANCY TEST FREE 
written parental consent {If your period is over 14 days late, MENSTRUAL REGULATION • cah us for .. counseling, legal aborticm, or other' medical and. NATI~;:~~~.:SALTH CARE · ) II 10605 Chester ave. 
emotionaIIhe Ip wlth problem pregnancy. Ca now for an Cleveland, o. 
appointment• no waitln Cleveland. o 44106 
' -~ (216) 795-1900 
Indiana University at South 
Bend will hold its 1975 South Bend 
Writer's Conference the -week Of 
Junne 23 through 27. 
Four workshops will be offered: 
in poetry, fiction, article writing, 
and writing for children. Each 
worshop will be led by an 
established writer with experience 
as an editor or teacher. The 
workshop will meet daily rcir 
discussions, lectures and in· 
dividual consultations. 
Also planned in connection with 
the conference is a seminar en­
titled , "Hyper-Communication: 
The Information Overload," which 
will examine the impact of elec­
tronic communication media ort 
society. 

Dr. Tom R. VanderVen, director 
of the conference, said admission 
to each workshop is limited to 20 
participants. Applicants for the 
conference must submit 
manuscripts "which show promise 
of a developing competance in 
writing," he said. The manuscripts 
should be mailed to Dr. VanderVen 
at IUSB by June 13. 
Students who want to enroll in 
the workshop for IUSB credit can 
i:lo so. They will be assessed nom­, rmal university feecourse fees in 
additj.on to other conference 
charges. 
I The International String
Quartet, consisting of four talented ' musicians from three continents, will be in residence at Indiana 'University at South Bend begin­
ning in 1975-76, it was announced today by Robert W. Demaree Jr., chairman of the IUSB division 'of music. 
· The four -two violinists, a violist and a cellist -come from Indiana University at Bloomington and have taught on the School of Music faculty there. 
1 
At IUSB, They will teach string 1 students and classes as well as offering public performances and playing with various area musical organizations. 
"The appointment of a resident string quartet of this calibre," said Demaree, "signals IUSB's com­mitment to the development of an orchestra and chamber-music program of first rank." -Members of the quartet are Chihiro Kudo, Machie Kudo, James Van Valkenburg and Lutz Rath. 
The International String Quartet has given frequent performances in the Midwest and through tout the United States. A critic recently called their playing " ... rich, supple, and powerful, 


r---------~:-:-=~~--------­
MEN-WOMEN 
Let the Army help you with college. 
Last year, 90,000 young people like yourseff earned college credits in the Army. 
They attended classes on post. They studied at nearby colleges and universities. And t!:!_ey took courses through various correspondence programs. And the Army paid for up to 75% of their tuition costs. 
Our educational benefits are in addition to the job training you'll receive, the salary you'll earn, and the travel opportunities you'll have. 
If you'd like to find out more about all the educa· tional benefits the Army has to offer, call your local Army Representative. 
Call Army Opport~nities 
232-1616 
Join the people who've joined the Army. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 

r-------------------------,
1 Your Second Beer 1 
I J Is On Us At 1I 

I LOUIE'S I 
fYOU BUY THE FIRST AND WE BUY~ 
1 1 THE SECOND (with this coupon) I 
1 
I I 
1 FOOD S E RVE D II 
11 AlL S U M M E R II 
1
1 I 

1 OPEN AFTER 6 00 PM I
I : I 
I I 
I 744 w. Notre Dame Ave. I
1 
1 South Bend 1
1 1 


MENSTRUAL 

Regulation by licensed, qualified physicians 
You're . not a baby machine. You can bring on your pe.riod 
when you want it. 


DOONESBURY 


j~ 
~ 
ll 
COMIIG ATTRACTION: 


ALUMNI REUNION STARRING:f0U 
Garry Trudeau wins 1975 Pulitzer Prize 
Garry Trudeau, creator of 'Doonesbury,' was awarded the 1975 Pulitzer Prize in cartooning. This is the first time a comic strip has received the award. 
Trudeau, 26, began syndicating the strip through Universal Press Syndicate in 1970. Prior to that date, Trudeau had drawn the strip, then entitled "Bull Tales,'' for the Yale "Daily News." 
Since syndication, the support and popularity of "Doonesbury" have shown remarkable growth. The strip is now in more than 400 newspapers in both the United States and abroad. 
Recently, President Ford made note of the impact "Doonesbury" had. In an address to the Radio and Television Correspondents Association, the President said: "I am very honored to be here because, as we all know, there are only three major vehicles to keep us informed as to what is going on in Washington: the elec­tronic media, the print media, and "Doonesbury" ... not necessarily in that order." 
Trudeau's hallmarks are an acerbic wit and an identifiable cast of characters, ranging from his own creations--Mike Doonesbury, Zonker Harris and Joanie Caucus-to guest appearances by Henry Kissinger, President Gerald Ford, and much of the Watergate cast. 
Presumably, some of the targets of Trudeau's satire give an occasional wince. But others laugh along: President Ford, Press Secretary Ron Nessen, John Ehrlichman, and others, have requested originals of Trudeau's artwork. 
Trudeau is remarkably quiet about his work and himself. He 
repeatedly truns down requests for interviews or lectures: "If I 
have anything to say," he explains, "I say it in the strip." 
Chances are, "Doonesbury" will be Trudeau's voice for some 
time to come. With the awarding of the Pulitzer Prize, and the 
/Reunion '75 'begins today 
"Reunion '75" begins Thursday 
(June 12) for an anticipated 2,00 
former students at the University 
of Notre Dame. Representatives 
of the golden anniversary class of 
1925 will lead the delegations from 
other classes graduating in the 
years ending in "0" or "5". 
For the third year, spouses -of 
alumni have also been invited to 
take part in reunion events. Rev. 
Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., 
president, will speak at a Saturday 
night banquet in the Athletic and 
Convocation Center, and Rev. 
provost, will welcone alumni at 
noon luncheon Friday in the North 
Dining Hall. Rev. Edumund P. 
Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice 
president of the University, will 
preach the homily at the 5:30 pm 
reunion Mass Saturday in Sacred 
Heart Church. 
Reunion seminars will focus on 
the topics of "Changing Values in 
Marriage Today,'' "Admissions 
and Financial Aid,'' "Notre Dame 
--Your Questions With No Holds 
Barred," and "Notre Dame and 
the Future of Intercollegiate 
Athletics." 
Several athletic events, 
beginning with the Monogram Club 
golf tourney Thursday, are 
scheduled. Mixed and singles 
tennis matches and sailing 
regattas are planned, as are 
tandem bike rides, guided campus 
tours, and filmed showings of 
major athletic events in Haggar 
Hall. 
Sunday morning at 10 am 
graduates will gather at the Grotto 
for a few moments of prayer and 
reflection. 
-J' 

·I 
II 
I
1j 

given popularity of the strip, it has become a firmly entrenched ; commentary on American politics and values, heroes and villians. '•'



r--------------------------------------1 .' 

111 
r 
~~ ~\ 1 ··· ;r..c,l'_.a arr~~,.o 
.NOW-SERVIN-G GYROS (A GREEK SPECIALTY) AND OTHER FINE FOOD . 
'YOUR FAVORITE BEER, WNE AND CXXJ<T,AJ LS 

I
I
I 
jl 
FOR A SPECIAL OCCA!SION (OR FOR NO REASON AT ALL ) 
SAY IT WITH FLOWERS or GIFTS 
from WYGANT FLORAl co. INC. 317 LWW SOUTH BENP 

232-3354 
PLAYLAND GOLF CENTER 
\Open dawn till 10:00 pm . 
9 HOLE • P.o,ll 3 GOlf COURSE 
Driving Range r8 Hole Miniature 
LOCATED US 33 AT IRONWOOD 
I
~rtt j .~eO.-1. 
..~....... 
~ 

)FROM OUR OWN NO FAMILy MEMBERSI: .•
i WELCOME BACK ALUMNI! II i; 
I
1LET us HELP sOF THE HANDIEST spors·•N~roww·· 
i I 
1.ltANDY SPOT PAm SHOPPE J. ROSELAND PARTY SHOPPE
YOU CELEBRATE 1 1426 Mlohowaka A... 113 DlxleWay N. ' ,.
I 1. N. IRONWOOD PARTY SHOPPE 4. GOLDEN FlASK PARTY SIIOPPE 
172.5 N lronwaad 413 Hickory ltd. at McKinley
I OUR REUNION ·' ' . 5. PARTY SHOPPE SOUTH · 
1 • • 

WINES • GOURMET FOODS 4401 s. at Ireland
I WITH 0 UR
1
1LARGE PARTY 
L BLAST! 
1  SELECTION  .  
I  
I  HAVE A  

• LIQUORS • PARTY SUPPLIES . 
• ~~:,.::aitabte.w• .will get it lor you." 

FRE.E DELIVERY 
28-7-1744 

OF SOOTH iUNC 
' 
• 

- -~  -----~ ---~­ 
6  the observer  Thursday, June 12, 1975  


The University of Notre Dame 1975 CommencementWeekend 
By Andy Praschak Associate Editor The Commencement Address was preceded by a joint Valedictory given by


May16-18
Commencement exercises: for 2,066 Michael J. Wahoske and William J. 
degree candidates at the University of Kellner. The rare double appearance is 
Notre Dame were held Sunday, May 18, 
due to the near-perfect 3.985 academic 1975. The Commencement and conferring averages attained by both during the last 
of degrees concluded a weekend consisting four years. Amark of 4.0 is perfect. of concerts, plays, a University reception, The crowd of over 12,000 heard Wahoske 
a cocktail party and buffet supper and a and Kellner tell the graduated to look for Baccalaueate Mass. and attain "realistically challenging 
Sunday's ceremonies were highlighted goals." "maake the best out of an im­
with a talk by Alan J. Pifer, president of perfect society by establishing goals and 
the Carnegie Corporation. Pifer lifestyles that mirror our understanding, 
originated, supported and participated in not our wildest dreams," they told the 
the carnegie OCommission on the Future crowd at the Athletic and Convocation 
of Higher Education, the most extensive Center. 
study ever made of higher education. He '"A man tyrranized by his desires cannot received an honorary doctor of laws be said to be a happy or a whole man who is degree during the ceremonies. · at all at peace with himself," Wahoske Contending that we are not being ruily human when we try to
The topic of Pifer's speech was the moral responsibility of higher achieve unrealizable goals he urged graduated to pursue a path of education. Higher education today has an almost unlimited productive work that promises "a good human life in all itscapacity to influence the moral tenor of the nation, according to richness and fullness."
Pifer. "The issue of whether a college or university should have an Kellner said "we should not be deceived by misguided idealsinstitutional commitment to an explicit set of moral values woul~ depicting the way a man should be, nor should we succumb to auntil recently have been considered an inappropriate and perhaps.. 
normlessness that ingores truth and quality. We must look ateven dangerous question to raise on the campus-contrary to the ourselves as we really are--frail, yet powerful being. From thatvery nature of the very nature of the academy, "he said. 
look, we should engender goals and lifestyles realistically possible 
Speaking to an audience of Notre Dame graduated nurtured on and be happy and fulfilled with accomplishment.the principle of in loco parentis, Pifer mistakenly proclaimed, 
Both students have been active in campus and community

"Clone today and properly so is the doctrine of in loco parentis, in voluntee•rJ work during their undergraduate career at Notre Dame. 
which colleges and universities were expected to act as a surrogate parent, supervising the moral behaviou of their students." Pifer Honor~ry Degrees explained however, that it was not this level of morality he is ad-Honorary degrees went to Congresswoman Barbara Jordan of dressing, but moral values of such a high order and so important to the 18th District in Texas, who received a partial standing ovation our future as a people that a commitment to them by a university or from the assembled crowd; Chancellor William D. McElroy of the college must overide any conceivable objection University of California at San Diego, who is president-elect of the 
American Association for the Advancement of Science; Dr. Ronald 
The Carnegie Corporation Executive defined four qualities "of B. Rice, a Notre Dame alumnus who is president of the Rand 
transcending importance at this juncture of history"--integrity, Corporation, Santa Monica, Calif.; author and publisher Frank 
tolerance, humanitarianism and humility-that an institution Sheed of Jersey City, N.J., and Alice Tully, a noted music patron 
should seek to foster in its graduates. and former singer. 
Pifer said he doesn't believe that higher education has ever Also, Arthur J. Decio, chairman of the board of the Skyline 
attempted to promote the understanding that true national Corporation, Elkhart, Ind., De. Peter F. Drucker, Clarke Professor 
maturity is an amalgam in the citizens of both pride and humility. ' of Social Service at Claremont Graduate School and a noted 
He is convinced, he said, that our chances of world leadership from management theorist; Nancy Hanks, chairman of the National 
here on will depend entirely on a wide appreciation of our limitation Endowment for the Arts, Washington, D.C., and Albert E. Jenner,' 
as well as our strengths. Jr., a Chicago attorney who served as chief special counsel to the 
minority of the House of Representatives Committee on the 
Placing the responsibility at the door of higher education, he said Juciciary in the impeachment inquiry respecting President Nixon. 
the problem is how the university will deal with the instinctive I The 1975Laetare Medal, given annually by the University to an 
sense of moral awareness in its student. The solutions, he said, are , outstanding American Caatholic, w.as awarded during com­
"well known and widely honored." We must look to the liberal arts mencement exercises to Sister Ann Ida Gannon, B.V.M., president 
curriculum to put the current human predicament in perspective of Mundelein College, Chicago, lll. 
and to the capacity of a university to serve as a forum for the In a tGuching moment towards the conclusion of the exercises, 
debate and for the illumination of great moral issues, Pifer said, Reverend Theodore Hesburgh, President of the University, asked 
and added that the faculty is essential in giving moral content and the parents to stand, outstretch their hands over the assembled 
meaning to the curriculum. •. graduates and join him in giving them their blessing. 
He ended, however, by throwing the ultimate responsibility back Degree candidated· ominclude an even 1,600 undergraduates, 109 
on the students, faculty and adadministrators because a university doctoral, 120 Juris Doctor in Law School, 176 master's degree and 
·'is not capable of making a moral commitment in itself for its 71 candidates for the master's degree in business administration. 
members. However we may personify the institution, it remains Included in the undergraduate totals were 680 Arts and Letters 
inert and insentient." The commitment, he said, can only be made students, 402 in Business Administration, 266 in Science and 242 in 
by people. Engineering. · 
t' PRESibENt' ANb t'RUS'CEES Of thE LINi\7ERSit'Y Of NOt'RE bAME AH.E PLEASEtJ 'CO CONFEH. 'Chis 

eljJ~~ OPfBPJ'Jl€(JA{J0Jl 
ON 
for the generosity, encouragement and sacrifke extended on behalf of 

JAmES €:. f:lJZJCZ 
;hii;a-;~~dergrad~i;;! th; u~iv;rsity ~ "No;;-~;;;; ----­
The University is proud of all of its alumni and equally proud of the many parents and guardians who have played a spedal supportive role in the foster­ing of intellectual and moral gmwth. 
Let this certificate officially recognize this important partnership in the learning 
process and symbolize what we hope will be your continuing assodation with 
the University as a Notre Dame parent. · 
PRESibEN'C 

.. 


..~~.--------------~----------------------------
Thunday , June 12, 1975 
the observer 




MAYAGUEZ
by Garry Wills I by Art Buchwald 
·---~---------------·­

I 

Well, now we know how to revive the spirits of aging senators--just find a mile­long island somewhere and drop a 15,000 pound bomb on it. Our venerable legislators reeled about twon giddy with delight for each blow delivered to the gnat. The senile felt potent again. The frail believe~ themselves tough. Mark Twain desqibed this phenomenon in 1900, when we had :o.laughtered defenseless Filipino with similar raptures of self-admiration: "This strange and overshowy onslaught of an elephant upon a nest of field mice, on the pretext that the mice had squeaked an in­solence at him." 
Of course, there was some excuse or other for out slaughter in the Philippines. But Twain accurately said that our gleeful response to the slightest occasion for showing out pov.:er proved that "we needed trouble" and the occasion was welcomed because it would produce the trouble. Then­·bombs away...with Jerry MeKinley-Lemay. 
When, six years later, we slaughtered more tribesmen in the Philippines, Twain, who was neither senile nor a senator, had the courage to call our Marines "uniformed assassins. At a time when the jolly skeletons in Washington were clicking their bones together even more joyoulsy than they have in these last few days. History has sided with Twain's judgement of the affair, though few newspaper columns did so at the time. 
As "Twain put it: "This is incomparably the greatest greatest victory that was ever achieved by the Christian soldiers of the United States." Why? Because: "This was by all odds the least dangerous battle that Christian soldiers of any nationality were ever engaged in." 
• 

When President Teddy Roosevelt basked in.reflected glory of the slaughtered Moro 
DOONESBURY 


tnbesmen, Twain wrote: "The president. has a warm place in his heart for anybody:~ who was present at that bloody collision of' military solar systems, and so he lost no time in cabling to the wounded hero (a Lieutenant Johnson), 'How are you?' and got a cable answer, 'Fine, thanks.' This is 1historical. This will go down to posterity.'' 
Those who wondered how long Watergate would make presidents observe the law now have their answer. The Mayaguez was probably in Cambodian territorial waters, to begin with--but who cared to find that out for sure? The president was acting under laws that qbliged him to consult Congress (not inform it). His response was punitive rather than merely rescuing. He broke this country's broadcast word that the attacks would stop when the crew was returned. (The bombs were there, and so was the oil dump--we needed some trouble, to show we are tough. So bombs away.). Besides, what are a few laws, national or international, when Barry Goldwater wants to have his faith in American bullets restored to him? 
Twain being a true patriot, felt he had t to save the flag rrom those "patriots" who equate any foreign death with American glory. He puzzled over tile difficulty, for a while, and came up with the solution: "Our flag is another pride of ours, our cheapest! We have worshipped it so; and when we have seen it in far lands--glimpsing it unexpectedly in that strange sky, waving its welcone and benediction to us--we have caught ourbreath, and uncovered our heads, and couldn't speak, for a moment, for the thought of what it was to us and the great ideals it stood for. Indeed, we must do something about these things; it is easily managed. We can have a special on~--our states do it: we can have just our usual flag, with the shite strips painted black and the stars replaced by the skull and crossbones." 
President Ford has had such a big win with the American people over the Mayaguez incident that he has become a new man--more assured, stronger and determined to show that the United States is not a peper tiger. In fact, he has gotten into the habit of calling Henry Kissinger on the telephone all the time. "Any American ships been seized lately ,Henry?" "I told. you a couple of hours ago, Mr. President, if any country grabbed one of our ships, yop would be the first to know about it.II "Sorry, Henry, I was chewing gum at the lime. I wish the Laotians would try to board one of our vessels. I'd show them a thing or two." "It's doubtful that any major power such as Laos is going to mess with us, Mr. President, after your strong and forthright action in the Mayaguez incident." · 
"Theybetter not. If we show any weakness at all, every .country in theworld will think that it can push us around. I sure wish Iceland would try to take one of our fishing vessels. I'd have the USS Enterprise there in no time." 
"That youwould , Mr. President, but it's all quiet now. Can Igo back to work?" 
''Henry, I was just thinking. Couldn't we have one of our ships sail close to Ecuador, maybe 10 or 15 miles out." 
"You mean in the hopes that Ecuador might try to pull another Pueblo?" 
"With this difference, Henry. We could have the B-52's from Guam flying to cover it. One move toward the ship and we drop everything in our arsenal on Quito. I will not stand for piracy of U.S. ships on the high seas." 
'Well said, Mr. President. But !believe we ough to let nature take its course. There is no sense provoking an incident. 
l'm sure you'll have another opportunity 
to dramatize the unity and strength of 
America under attack.'' 
"Henry, even if someone grabs a canoe I 
want to hear about it." 
"You will, Mr. President.'" 
"I'd like to see Trinidad start something. 
We'll show them how todeal with a crisis. 
You don't think Trinidad would resort to 
piracy, do you, Henry?'.' 
"We have no intelligence that they're 
thinking about it, Mr. President. But that 
doesn't say they wouldn't." 
"Well, keep the 82nd Airborne on alert 
just in case. And I'd like to see som~ 
cruisers sent to Monte Carlo. You never 
know when Prince Rainier thinks he can 
push us around." 
"Consider it done, Mr. President." 
Are you sure Cuba doesn'thave any Soviet 
misiles stationed there zny more?" 
"They were all· pulled out in 1962, Mr. 
Predisden." 
"You· know, Henry, after the Mayaquez 
incident, l received thousands of telegrams 
in support of my action, including one from 
Ronald Reagan." 
"You deserved it, Mr. President." 
"!get standing ovations wherever I go." 
"As well you might." 
"The conservatives have stopped picking on me, and even the Democrats are looking at me with new respect." 
"It's a dream come true, Mr.President. But why are you so concerned to have another international incident?" 
."You know the American people, Henry. R1ght now everyone is saying, 'Good show Geryy,' but if someone doesn't grab anothe; one of our ships, they're all going to say, 'What have you done for us lately?" 
by Garry Trudeau 


·------------------------­
IAddress 



\ --------------­
~------------­

I Name 


As a service to the .visiting Alumni, we are presenting a small sample of the letters we recieved in the last year.


While You Were Out: 
, Some of them deal with campus issues, and carry some to 1the spirit of those issues. Other letters deal with the frustrations and problems with living on campus. PerhapsMe~nos FroiD 197 4-75 the most interesting of all are those letters which show the way students are trying to cope with the chaUent~s o~ co­
-
• education. We·hope you enjoy them . 

son. who would probably revert to You'll be walking straight toward Dame should realize that this is a 
barbarianism were it not for the an attractive member of the op­school. and not a way of life. I W.ndry's passionate_concern for posite sex, your eyes will meet for couldn't agree more. And
Dirty Disapproval 
~ dirty shorts. It see.ms -that I · 5 or 10 seconds(and to quote a when they do realize this, maybe 
~re of~n,bw p~r.~ept· female friend-"lt can be very Notre Dame will be all that the

Laundry 
f~ them •~ ·lh~,·rt!f>t~ree'd~­sexy") but you won't say hello. 600 Strong outside world thinks it is. 
stirunken, slightly worn clothmg, This also happens with people
or'• bi'ew·-'e6ihp'lttitlrs• utltt·' J 'rre\rel'. 
we've met at parties or in tlie .John Salvt'son
Dear Editor:Dear Editor: wear my better clothing (made o~ library or anywhere. We know To Fr. Hesburgh

I am not one who is prone to , fabrics only a fool would trust to eacb other by sight but pride keeps Incident writing to newspapers, my opinion , the laundryh I am gla~ ~ see, us from recognition. (I won't say being that those who say stupid 1 however, that. y~ur opm10n. of bello until she says hello to me.) 1 
With much concern, the 

things are probably not worthy of student responsibility runs so h1gh. You could have danced with a giri faculty and atSWL
following members 

the time spent in rebuttal. There I can assu_re you that I have the night before but not said a word students of Notre Dame send this Dear Editor;
are times however when mutual feelings for an ad­to her for the next 3 d_ays. Then you letter to you regarding the con­singularly classic exampies of the ministration which makes such have to hope you meet her again. ferring of an honorary Doctor of In regards to the excellent job failure to consult the brain before remarks. And you do. I've met girls 4 or 5 Law degree on President Ford. SMC security does. 
· speaking demand a reply, which in I would suggest that. your service times who still pretend not know We the undersigned wish to Last Wednesday night <Sept. 25)
this cue (considering the obvious 1 does perform 2 functions: me well enough to say hello. ASa express disapproval with the at 2:30 a.m. another guy and examples it sights( will probably 1) ~n . the face of c~rre~t result I end up playing the same University's effort to create: 1) an myseH brought two friends back to not be understood by those of the , recessiOn 1t h~lps to create JObs m game. Pride. illusion of overwhelming support Regina South. One was totallyopposing viewpoint, but at least it the garment mdustry_ as w~ll as There are two major social for the awarding of this degree 
passed out and we were going tohelps me to retain my sanity. Sych enco~rage parents to mve~t m ~e events around here. The first is the upon Presid~nt Ford; and 2) the carry her up to her room. The 

an example is contained in the sagg•_ng economy <especially m party. We recently had a party to impression that the convocation is rectress told us we weren't going 
comments of Br. Kieran Ryan clothmg stores). " . " which we invited 40 girls. Sur­an academic affair, when its to take the • girl upstairs afterconcerning the proposal to install 2) It prepares g1rls (_your prisingly enough we had 40 girls at consequences are unquestionably hours; I said we were but then the 
washers and dryers in the men's word, not mmel to do the laundry our party. Thirty of them we didn't political. In the meantime
other guy split.

dorms. The following is a tran-for their _future h~sband support Further more, the contradiction
even know, letalone invite. We another lady, who turned out to be 
script of a severely shunken T-roles, wh1le allo':"mg_ the men to were glad they came, but we had between the human o~~alues which 
the assistant rectress, came (\own.shirt which I mailed to Br Ryan 1 expect such services m the future. legitimate excuses ready but what ~ this community professes and the Sht( and the girl's friend went with 
today: · Furth~rmore I would like to see usually happens is that the girls policies President Ford has pur­me as I brought the girl up to her
Dear Br. Ryan: a program initiated whereby the sued offends .our moral sen­
have held out for the best offer. 
room on the 3rd floor. On the Wf4-Y" ... The laundry wouldn't have maids are responsible for checking We'd like, for ·once , to see a party. sibilities. 

down I ran into security who tlu!n

problems with a T-shitt. .." to see that all the men are run properly. You inyite people to proceeded to hassle abo~t being up The above quote is from the : changing clothes ever_yda~ a~d a party for 8:30 Saturday night. All, Submitted by600 ND"SMC students there after hours. I hassled back. 
Obset"\"t>r, Feb. 18, 1975. The T-using the laun~ry-serv1ce-m. this the people who said that they were and faculty As I'd had a few myself I'm sure Ishirt is from th.e Notre Dame · way our mommtes and dads wtll be going to come show up at 8:30 I2Sed some obscenities, but I triedLaundry. Sept. 1974. As you can , further assured that we are being Saturday night and stay until the , Visitation to keep it cool.l told them what nice plainly see, this T-shirt is suffering, well cared. for. 
party ends. We have so many uniforms they had and how coolfrom severe shrinkage,. a Ia N.p. Yours mShrunken llnderwear, social elites among us, nobody can they were because they had aLaundry. I recall that it fit me , Thomas J. Thompson begin a party until 10:00. 
Hours badge. I did this as sarcasticallywhen I arrived at Notre Dam!'. , :nto5 1 The second -and probably as possible unfil we reached the

llowt•ver. after several washings greatest social event is dinner. n 1•01 r Editor;.. door and I left. While leaving SMC 
<note the darkness of the name ..Gee let's go to dinner at 5:15, that I happened to walk by the guar­tag> it no longer fit very well, in way we'll see them and them." We Afh•r rt>ading Tuesday's front dhouse when my two friends pulled fact on me, it resembles 
never talk to them and them but we pagP articlt> on the SLC's something o(a halter top. This Games People sit near them and stare and dream. suggt•stion that \'isitation hours in I couldn't resist' one more crack 
common

disease appears to be a 1 If we don't know a girl's name it n·main unchanged, I decided to so I looked at them and said, "Nice 
malady with many of the un-: 
doesn't matter. Most of you girls write this lettt-r to express a few uniform!" The one without the fortunate clothes I have sentenced 1 Play have nicknames that fit either your thoughts on the matter. uniform went mental and told me 
to the laundry service. I recall two "That's it. You're coming in right 
1 anatomy <Legs) or your per-i''irst. I'd like to take a look at the 
nt>w pairs of socks which I brought sonality <Bitch). Perhaps you've conct-pt of limited visitation hours now." I told him I wasn't and I here in August. After one 0) bee misnomered, but if I said Susie in gmt-ral. Personally, I consider kept walking. He yelled "Turn washing, I had to send them home Dear Editor BT every guy on campus would them an -insult, as well as an in: around!" or-something like thatto my little brother. I quickly know who and what I was talking con~t>nience. If my parents did not and when I did I caught a stream oflearned the fundamental rule of I've been reading about the about. But the point is for all' the considt-r ml' mature enough to live mace all across my face. I was lo-the laundry service: send only social life and the male-female effort and energy' it's all misspent. 750 miles away from home, I 15 feet away, back turned andclothes which are made of in-relationships on this campus for Let's get to know. each other. wouldn't be here right now. leaving and he still found the needdestructable material and are at ' approximately 2 months. I've been · Nobody will make the first move Howt•ver, apparently they did so to mace me.
least two sizes too big. This did not living the social life ande the male­
unless it's to start a food riot. hert> 1 am.
solve the immediate problem female relationsships on this The official report said theLet's forget our pride and be 1 find it amusing though that the
however. to which several drawers campus for approximately 2 years. student kept up abusive language
friends. It would be very easy t'nivt>rsity doesn't consider .
of midget-sized clothing will Often, however, I wonder if I've and tempting to offer suggestiOJ:!S , until we had to mace him. I'm sure 
testify. . ever left high school. -011 "how to". But this letter is not .731808582 mature enough to come I did use some abusive language
"By charging this package we l The rules still apply here. In and go as he judges fit, when they : but no language warrants the use feel it would be more I most cases, you aren't allowerl to intended to be a Dear Abby column know zero about him. I really l of mace. If these guards are not 
economical. .. '· Consider the 1 date a girl if you know someone for forlorn lovers. don't think-it is their damned f mature enou'gh to handle some dilemma of the hapless student 1 who is dating her or someone who You girls have a chance, this business who is visiting my room abuse or criticism then one of two who. in one week, changes his , likes her. That sounds fair. There week, to see what it 's like to be on and when they are going to leave. 
things should be done. Efth the 

undershorts and socks daily are plenty of "fish in the sea". All the active end of the relationship. I find it a bit ironic that the man should be fired or have his 
<hurrah 1 l, and dirties 4 T -shirts, 2 you have to do is find a girl that a( The Sadie Hawkins dance Friday report stresses the needs for : mace taken away. What would flannel shirts. 1 towel and 1 pair of , is not known to anybody you night should pack Stepan Center freedom and privacy in its 1 happen if he really got hassled? jeans. If he should be lucky enough \ know, b. ( is not liked by anybody 1 with couples who want it's like to recommendations. Privacy can be 1 to receive it in wearable condition, you know. I'm sure girls have the do the asking (someone you're not found behind a closed door <girls 1 
The next day I went to file a

he has spent $3.53 and owes the same situation. There is an un­sure will go.p Then you can better cannot see through doors>, and my I complaint at Dean Macheca 's laundry a 53 cent charge. <I have spoken law similar in nature to understand tis. concept of freedom doesn't include ' office. He wasn't there but Mrs.
spent my entire "$10 ·dry cleaning Squatter's rights. If you men tiona t Because we couldn't be specific being bounced out of a friend's McCabe, the assistant Dean, was.
option" in this way for 3 girl before you friend does, you and had to exclude a number of room at the appointed time. 
She said she'd check out my in­semesters. l The same wash could have the first chance. That's also~ variables, people may find ways to The final point 1 would like to formation. and then push thebe done in commercial machines fair. Unless your friend gets the reason that this letter doesn't . take up is the report's contention complaint through. Monday shefor less than $1.30! For this reason name in first and and he's the kind apply to them, person.ally. But it that there is no presuasive tOld me that the)' h!ld sent a reportmy friends and I take our dirty of guy (many of us are) who takes does. It applies to almost everyone argument for changing the times 1 over asking SMC .securitY-to usejeans to a laundromat where $4.50 at least a semester to get up the 1 in this community. Let's stop which are currently in effect. 1 mace only in cases of physicalworth (1() pairs l can be washed courage to ask her out.. Then she 1 playing games of pride. We've l~ft No less than 80 percent of danger. Othefthan that there wasand dried for less than $1.50. , turns him down ( with some very . high school, now let's forget it. Be students polled expressed a desire nothing else that could be done.

'T think the parents feel safe • nice smile and legitimate excuse). honest and friendly. It will sur-for more liberal visitation hours. I The official complaint on the top ofknowing their kids' clothes are Oh well, you!ve only wasted one! prise, perhaps shock people, for a don't mean to sound like a bomb-the report was man in woman'sbeing washing and pressed." Yes semester. _ while. But once we get used to it, h · d" 1 b t d •t th" 
we can really learn to love each . t rowmg ra •ca • .u oesn IS room. after. hours. . In the reportbrother, I'm sure that every ' This campus isn't extremely. 
other • resemble a persuasive argument? security sa1d they stopped me loMonday night my parents kneel, large and we have a chance to seel · writteu byTom Young. j After all, we are paying a premium explain that I coulQn't go up therefacing the golden dom·e, and chant aiot of the same people in our daily attested by F-Troop , price to be here. 
without an ~.A. or somethiDg, but I praises to the N.D. Laundry for routines. But if we've never been Paul Shay Rick Supik A friend once commented to me had the assistant rectress _

yring for their lit~e 20 y~r old 1 introduced we don't dare say hello. . 
-:::____ .• -!--.:.L--.·. ····-,, Jim Augustine Augie Grace · \that the administration of Notre 
Mike Scula&P ~ 





Using The 
'Subway 
Alumni' 
Ut>ur Eclitor: 
Within the past week, students 
received in their mail a form 
befilled with names and ad­
resses of people they think 'would welcome a t·hanee to become mt•mbers of the "Notre Dame Subway Alumni Association." This association's aim is "to give formal recognition to the thousands of ND fans who have nPver st'en the campus but still love the school and its spirit." 
After paying a membership fee (Of course 1. these lucky people will rPet'iVt' "an official car decal, a ·subway Alumnus' certificate and a subscription to a quarterly m•wsl!'tler. Prpfert>nce for football tick!'ts at away games is also a possibility." WhM'I"\I'J' 4-10-75> 
To put it bluntly, this impressed mt• as but another one of the llnivt•rsily's "let's use some more peoplE'" gamt•s. 
I am firmly against duping pt•oplt' into financially supporting and taking "official" pride in a university which they know nothing about. The regular Notre I>aml' Alumni Association is valid lwcause the mPn and women graduates who become members do so with their eyes wide open. Tht•y have personnally witnessed much mort' than a few football ' gamPs Pach year. They have at­ll.'ndPd dasst•s. met teachers, madt• friends and become a part of thE' univPrsity. 
But. in addition to this, they have rl.'alizl.'d that Notre Dame's "of. ficial" image is largely a hypocrisy. 'l'hey have been treated like children, thl.'y have seen fril.'nds punished and suspended without m!'rcy, they havt• seen eoPducation handl!'d miserably, and th1•y have sl.'en the faculty I ignor!'d as· inferiors by the ad­ministration ... all in the name of Amt•rica's "('hristian com­munity." So. if the students who graduatt' from Notre Dame wish to bt•comt• mt'mbers of the alumni assodation, they know fully well 



What is woman? 
Editor's Note: The original letter on this subject, written by three females, seems to have become a small battleground for one more skirmish In the ongoing battle of the sexes. Keep those cards and letters coming In! 
Dear Editor : 
The article entitled "And.Such is Woman" printed in Tuesday's Observer demands equal time for a retaliation by the oppositite sex. This is an analysis of the male creature as seen through the an­thropologist's eyes. 
Although the creature belongs to the species of Homo Sapiens <abbreviated SAPl, this is a commentary on a subgroup of SAP known as Homo Domers (em­phasis on subgroup, i.e. beneath, lower than. ) 
Ancestral heritage: Primates. Note: A scrutiny of primates availabe for study in this en­vironment will show that the level of progress has been markedly slow since the first of them left the trees; as a matter of fact, many are still "upin the air." 
llab.its: Reversions · to animalistic habits are com­monplace. Upon agitation, for example, he is likely to engage in battle with his fellow primates, using the materials ~losest to hand--i.e. food, which is rarely far from reach. 
Favored habitats include, most noticeably, bed; at, near, or in large sources of food; and designated rectangular fields, due to abnormal affinity for odd­shaped pigskin objects. 

Homo­sexuality 
' 
Dear Editor: 

It is always taken as a milestone when bigotry and indifference are overcome and replaced with compassion and understanding. This was done recently in the series "Homosexuality" by Andy 
that typt• of institution they are' Praschak. supporting publicly and finan-Notre Dame has always been a I'WII v. strong leader on behalf of any 
Ol;viously, this cannot be said pe~son be he black, brown, red, about the Subway Alumni. The whtte, or a member of a~y other majority of them will be sup-minority group in the f1ght for porting a football team _nothi{lg human decency whenever thost> 
.._ .f h . 1 th causes are endangered.
d
mort':. a~ mayut' t l e ttl e ot e While trying to meet the in­~Hsoctalton .could be changed to tellectual needs of its students the tllustrate t~ts 1dea more clearly, university must also aid it~ the formatwn of such a group stude.nts in their task of would be valid. The struggling to find thems~lv~ a~d futuremt•mbers are not and to ultimately discover th~tr a1ms ~n 
will not be informed as fo the life and help them ach1eve the1r rest of what "Notre Dame" stands, goals. for One glance at Notrl' Dame The series of articles proved for 1\lagazinl' shows that not even our· the most part Interesting because 1 true alumni get a realistic picture it chose n9t to be ov~y partiapd of what goes on at this campus. but acted as a sounding boar to Therefore 1 believe this. sh?w an element of society that 
· · ' eedl · ex1sts today but has always been . 
ass?C•a.tton to be a n .ess VIC-I Tgnored in the past In hopes that it IIm1zatwn of mnocent. Ignorant, would disappear. There were parts gomlht•art~d~ople; and I refuse tor of. the article which totally take part m 11. · disagreed with such as the in­terview with "Tom" concerning ' Jt'anint' M. Sterling '76 the aay community In ~th Bend. 
Dear Editor, 


The Chemical Compostion Of A Male ­
Analysis of· the beast male as seen through the eyes of the ch­mist. 
Symbol: Bs Accepted Atomic Weight: Varied, with the highest concentration in lower extremities. Physical Properties: Frequent swelling of head with ac­companying appearance. of strange protusions often referred to as horns. Sours when continuous attention is witheld. 
Occurence: Found wherever food 

Mating: Has fond delusions of and flesh are prevailent (in that aggreSsion and dominance, yet orderl. upon encounter with a member of Chemical Properties: Prone to the opposite sex~ tends to freeze, influx of energy during nocturnal finding it difficult to progress hours in response to certain stimuli beyond What's your-major-.(i.e. silk). where're-you-from. llses: Still under investigation. 
Ruling emotion: Horniness (.cf Caution: Dangerous in large Doonesbury, by G. Trudeau, 20 numbers and deadly when left to September). its own· devices. 
Appearance: Jeans and T-shirts Name withheld by request
for all occasions; higtops for formal wear. Reason for existence: As yet undetermined. 
Dear Editor: 

Warning: Will try anything upon I feel sorry lor you. Maybeintoxication! 
someday you will meet a woman that can be classified as a human Sincerely twell, almost>, being; for surely the only· women Eileen you bave obviously come in con­Marie tact with can be classified asSuzy creatures. -

Smcerely, Anne Marie Ashe 

I feel there should never be a caste us all in his Image m.akes us all feel 



system which he hints at. It is like, welcome in his church." No mortal saying .I will not bother ·"'tb \ man has yet been given the titl~ of Michaelangelo because he did not God to choose whether or not bemg go to Notre Dame. Although I am ·gay is either right. or w.rong. ~t critical of "Tom's" oolnion I must would seem appropnate smce th1s Say thatJamproud of him beeause 'Se~ies s.timuJated StUdent that the obviously he cares enough to get untve~stty wou~d pur~hase books involved dwelhng on th1s subject so that · ·. understanding and not total 
While to many of ~e student ignorance could prevail on this body the topic of the ser•es may not ~am pus. Remember the gay seem worthy of being printed in the ;tudent pays the same' amount of newspaper I can bet you that more uition as other students. newspapers were taken home and read than usual. I know that they-­Name Withheld on Request were read because there were numerous discussions throughout 
the campus concernina-the ar­
ticles. It was very helpful for.those Not all life 
of us who are caught up m an identity crisis. Since even the I.I es· .I n b0 0 ks 
"Super" jocks read the articles I woulc like to say this: Re1pember the times that someone on your team scored a touchdown or a Dear 'Editor': goal? Didn't you and your team-As my cQllege days come to an mates hug each otbe· in end, it is time for an overdue celebration? Was it wrong to do reflection on the goodness and so? perversities of the University of 
There is not one single student on . Notre Dame. The excellence of campus who is not touched by the academics at the University homosexuality. I say this because goes without saying. It is a ~f the .percentage oof .homosexuals foremost leader in many areas of m sa<;•ety every famtly tree mu~t education a,nd has maintained a conta1n at least one member who 18 national prestige with the quality 
ga~th D~ Arens and Father of its professors. . . . Griffin are .to be congratulated on ' But, ..as ~ature mdlVlduals, ~e their views which are totally should realize that not all of life 
l j
honest. I totally agree with the can. be, read from a ~k..~e. words of !'"'ather Griffin when be-majority of the Un1vers1ty s. said "The same God who created ,students must revert to the books 
1 
for a self-Contained happlriess because other factors within the University inhibit and almost degrade our potential of just being human. I refer here to the per­verse attitude towards social in· tercourse. There are varying causes of this perversity. like the ratio of men to women, the lack of a "normal" atmosphere at the­bars, the 21 drinking law, the sexual code, parietals, etc. But none of these really grasp the core of the problem. The origin of such perversity is the underestimation of the individual by certain powers within the University. We ARE responsible, we ARE mature, we are just plain degraded humans. 
I am not fostering a free-for-all type of University. My complaint is solely vested in the ad­ministrators and coordinators of this so-1:alled body of united 
-
( 


Test your knowledge of Notre Dome du lac 
.by Andy Praschak 
theology student, made construction· ability of the Univers_it~ to sche~u!e 7.) A. Sacred Heart's steeple rises above 
possible in 1896. Boulders weighing as much academic, cultural, rehg10us and _civic :e University of Notre Dame campus, as two or three tons were used in con-events in the larg~st aren~ betw~~ ~hica_go dered to be one of.the most picturesque struction. Hundreds of thousands have and Detroit.Shari~g parkmg facihtles With 
·e United States is visited annually'by visited the shrine to pray or light candles the football stadium, the ACC can seat ands of traveler~ visitors frienas ~nd over the years, and a major Protestant: 12,000 under _one dome and 5,000 under the . ni and members' of the Notre Dame group conducted some services on the site in second for simultaneous events tha~ o~~en 
nunity However many of who live recent years. Here, too, is a reproduced ·and study on th~ campus year-round letter from a famed Notre Dame gra!luate ., ·elatively unfamiliar with some of the Dr. Thomas A. Dooley, to Father Hesburgh points of the campus. · which was written only six weeks before his .e following "Campus Quiz" is designed death in Southeast Asia ... " if I could go to 1form as well as tes1 the knowledge of the Grotto now, then I think I coulq sing 
· · 'd " 
e who profess to knowmg the campus ms1 e. 
the back of their hand. So it's time to mt your pencils and prove to your fellow :mi. co-worker, or roommate that you N more about the campus than they do. 
'he famous Grotto on the Notre Dame pus is a replic~ of the shrine at-a)
I 
rna, Italy; b1Lourdes\ France; c)
I 
tcan City; d>Bethlehem. he ghost of George Gipp(The Gipper) is ged to 'reside in a) Sacred Heart
J 
·­
1rch; b) The Morris Inn; c) Washington 
!I; d) The Administration Building. The double-domed Athletic and Con­ation Center contains more acres under 
){ than the Houston Astrodome. True or False. 
4. The mural-lined walls of the iAd­ministration Building were painted by a) Michelangelo; b) Ivan Mestrovic; c) Luigi Gregori; d) Fr. Flanigan .. The first 1 Catholic ·priest ordaine<J in the United States was Notre Dame's a) Father Sorin; b) Father Badin; c) Rev. Thomas Carroll; d> Father Ted Hesburgh. 
6) The approximate number of varieties of trees found on the Notre Dame campus is a) 100; b)300; cl500; dllOOO. The highest man-made point on campus is 
a) the cross on the top of Sacred Heart Church ; b) The Memorial Library ; c) Hall d ~ The Aero--~pace building. 

"Touchdown Jesus" can be found at a) tbe football stadium; b l Moreau Seminary 
c) 
Sacred Heart Church d) The Memorial Library. 

9) 
The total number of dormitories inhabited by undergraduate women during the '74-'75school year was a) 3; b) 5; c)7; dl9. The present Administra\ion building was built in a) 4 months;, b) 1 year; c) Ph years; d) 2 years. 


Answers 

1.) B. The Grotto of OurLadyt>f Lourdes is replica of the famed French shrine where Virgin Mary appeared to St. Bernadette 18 occasions in 1858. Visiting that site on of his SO trips abroad, Fr. Sorin vowed to JrPJrornmu•f' it on Notre Dame Campus, and a from Rev. Thomas Carroll, a former 


OnWard To Victory 
A review by Fred Graver 
This is a valuable book, in the sense that it Armstrong is at his best when he writes of a collection of the many accounts of the the men behind the association; he is at his Association of Notre Dame; how it weakest when he recounts what they have to be, how it grew and developed, and raised in funds, what buildings they have faces it'in the future. Mr. Armstrong dedicated, what men they elected to posts uu•,.u•'"" felt very deeply both for Notre within the Alumni Association. 
and for its Alumni. He served for Even in his recountings of the history of years as the secretary to the the University, he writes with the tion, and spent quite a few years of misleading tone of a predestined course. 
writing this book. Everywhere in the book is evidence that 1 has been close to the men who have Armstrong was too close to the action to the Alumni Association work. He has gain a perspective on it. 
what goes into supporting the growth In the opening chapters of the book, Arm­' this University. He sees th€ <\lumni strong concerns himself with two in-1n~·""'·'"'·'u" as much more than the wallets terpretations of ·the University, "La Vie Dame; he knows the spirit of the Intime: The Intimate Live" and "Bridge, .,.,,,,.,~.ution, and the way in which it extends Beacon and Crossroad," a view of the the Notre Dame community to the far ends University's role in the world. They are of the world. enlightening notions in their own right, but 
The title of the book is misleading, and in the handsof Mr. Armstrong they become this mistitle gives a clue to the systems into which he can· fit details and predominamt weakness of the book. It events too easily, rendering them somewhat should be called "A Chronicle of the Alumni less importance Iand meaning than they Association " since it does not probe very actuaHy have. deeply into' individuals lives. In the last In a chapter entitled "The Incredibility chapter of the book, Armstrong mentions Gap," towards the end of the book, Arm­regrettably that he has made passing strong talks_ abo~t the turbulent.lch_anges he references to some very great lives. saw occurrmg m the early s1xties. He 
There is too much detail in the book, and writes: "Changes were occurring with no not enough interpretation. A history should visible means of support. You read or­be written that will teach us tiow the lives thodox · and looked around you at the and spirits of men came forth to shape uporthodox. Students were select, something. Too often in this book we are left sophisticated/, responsible-they looked with accounts of alumni meetings, with nondescript, their expressions often brief forays into the biographical in-execrable, their actions often irresponsible. 
difficulty in interpreting 
1 
include performances of the Rmg mg .. Brothers circus, Ice Capadesextrav?ganzas~ home and mobile _home shows, family en­tertainmen~, nationally famous bands, orchestras, ~nstrumental groups an? pe;­formers. Fnends of Notre _Dame m t e south Bend area helped .to fmance the 8.6
. . . . million dollar facility which opened m 1968. 
4. > C Luigi Gregori (1819-1896) was a Vatican artist who came to Notre Dame to add his talents to the Administration . Building and Sacred Heart Church. The murals, depicting the arrival of Columbus into the New World were painted using faculty and administrators of the time as 
. Fr. Walsh was used as a model for all figures of Columbus except for the scene Jn his death bed where Father Sorin was used as a model. 
5.) B. Interred beneath the Log Cabin, a 
-·~ replica of the one where the University was .iii\Juu•-'"u in 1842, is the body of Fr. Stephen T. the first priest ordained in the States and the man who donated the of his Indian Missionary Church so that 
. Sorin might found·Notre Dame. 6.) c. The campus contains some 5000 trees of 500 different varieties. The campus 

2.)C.Washington Hall is the 858-seat itself spreads across 1,250 acres. 
auditorium that has served as a stage since 1881 for concerts, dramatic productions and ' lectures by many of the world's leading 
figures in the arts and sciences. Kept alive 1. 
here by the students is a legend that the I 
ghost of George Gipp, the All-American I 
football player from 1917 through1920, I 
wanders nightly through the building. He 
lived on one of the upper floors and served 
as a fire guard. 
3. >True. The double-domed Athletic and Convocation Center houses virtually all Notre Dame Varsity sports, including basketball and hockey, as well as indoor facilities for those who want to unwind after strenuous classroom periods. In the unending network of tunnels are .rooms for handball, squash, boxing, wrestling, fen-1 cing, weightlifting, jogging, lacrosse, soccer, rugby, skating, baseball, tennis and· just plain exercising. Of equal im­portance in thelO % acres under roof, more • area than Houstons Astrodome, is the I 



f ~Ci(')Or 
, \ Cllronid(' oftil(',\lunmi 
Notre Dame.to Alumni. It was difficult to 
interpret it myself." 
Rather than search for a meaning, or write of his own reflections, whether con­clusive or not, Armstrong falls back on his system of meaning, writing: 
"I think one of the greatest challenges to reason stemmed from the fact that the brilliant beacon, the two-way bridges and the crowded crossr"ads made it difficult on occasion to determine their relationship to the University. And there was even too much urgent business at hand to enjoy the luxury of and reflection." 
all other man-made structures on campus 230 feet. By contrast, the 14story Library is 210 feet high, and the Dome rises 206 feet above the ground. 
s.>D. The towering figure on the front of the Library can be seen plainly through the goal posts of Notre Dame Stadium. This fact, pluss the particular placement of the arms have contributed to its affec name of "Touchdown Jesus.'· More than 7 000 pecies of granite, Ill kinds and 171 dlfferent finishes, from 16 countries and several states in the U.S. were used by the artist, Millard Sheets, to form the mosaic. The head of Christ is nine feet tall and consists of 115 pieces. A Minnesota granite company <Cold Spring) installed the mural after first laying out_ part of it on a basketball court and the other section on a hometown football field. 
9.>B. Five dorms were resided in by un­dergraduate women. They were Badin, Breen-Phillips, Farley, Lyons and Wal~h Halls. Next year undergraduate women wdl 
graduate women Badin, 
awaiting the completion of graduate student facility. IO.>A.Built in 1879, the Building with its famed 
constructed bv a volunteer band of students and laborers much as it today, in time for September yellow bricks in this buildings were made (rom marl taken the nearby lakes. 
Scores-10 correct ......... A "Golden" 8 or 9 correct. .... A "Silver" Domer 6 or 7 correct..... A "Bronze" Domer 
A pleasant impression of the scene, but not informative or interpretive enough to give the reader a real sense of how an Alumnus viewed the changing campus of the sixties. 
Armstrong doesn't make clear what he means by the challenges to the beacon and the crossroad. He followed the above passage with an account of how much cash the Alumni Association raised in 1963, who they elected, what buildings they attempted to build He skirts the issue by mentioning that the changing campus was the topic of several discussions, but doesn't give any information as to what the general feelings of the Alumni were. 
What the book needs, <and this passage displays. one of Armstrong's better moments) is something like his opening 
! impressions of Father Andrew Morrissey "a man with little more than prep school aspirations for Notre Dame, with little encouragement for scholars and with fear of debt which opposed the expansion which was already a hallmark of N.D. when he took over its direction." There have been better books written about Notre Dame, and there have been books which have been much further off the mark than this one. It is a complete record , of the Alumni Association and its functions, though it lacks a sense of the lives and spirits that contributed to that functioning. For that, the Alumni Association can be grateful to James· Armstrong, and for his .....-,Ul.... dedication to them.



--~-------­
Thursday, June 12, 1975 
the observer 1 1 

The Observer Is published Monday



Su1n1ner theatre 
through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during exams and vacation periods. The

fare to be offered Observer Is published by the students of the University of Notre 
Oame and St. Mary's College.

for fourth consecutive year Subscriptions may be purchased for 8 dollars per semester (16 dollard per year) from The Db-
Charles Ballinger. The play, an directly from the storybook ver-~ ~ server, Box Q Notre Damte Indianaby Sue Zwick 
~ 0

old-fashioned comedy complete sion, but the dialog is written and • 465~6. Second c1ass pos age paid,
t>roductlon Manager 1with heroes and villians, will be improvised by the actors. TALES, L-------.,.-----~N-ot_re_o_am_e._I_N_4_6s_s_6___-J 



1 presented on July 31, August 1 and FROM MOTHER GOOSE will be. 
Summer theatre fare will be 2. All performances begin at 8:00. performed on July 12, 16, 19, 23 and offered for the fourth consecutive Sumultaneous with the adult 26. year by the University of Notre series, on Wednesday and 
Dame-Saint Mary's College Saturday afternoons, the Notre Theatre, under the direction of Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre for Reginald F. Bain, Chairman of the Young People will present two Concurrently with the theatre Cooperative Department of Speech original works. The firstJACKAND season, Dr. Miles Coiner will direct and Drama. A total of six plays for BEANSTALK,,..ritten by Reginald an acting workshop for high school both youth and adult en-Bain.in the form of participatory students beginning June 16 and tertainment will be performed in theater, is an experimental per-continuing through August 2. The Moreau Hall Little Theatre at formance that allows children to workshop will feature the im­Saint Mary's College. talk, act and partake in the provisatory techniques of Viola 
The summer theatre is per-movement of the story. JACK Spolin and others, in an effort to 
1 

formed by a company of Notr e AND THE BEANSTALK follows a stress the pursuit of self-discovery Dame and Saint Mary's students, similiar play written by Bain, and individual development of graduates, and faculty. The eleven ROBIN HOOD, which was per-acting techniques. Workshop members compose the core of the formed successfully last summer. participants will perform in a self­acting staff, which is sup-Dr. Bain explained, "We minimize composed improvisatory program plemented by interested people the costumes and scenery, and try at the conclusion of the season. from the community for the to totally immerse the children in "The summer program is designed particular play. The:summer for the action." The play is directed to teach the participants about 1975 is slated to be "the best" ever by Janet Wilson, a graduate of theatre as well as have fun. We offered to the Notre Dame area. 1Saint Mary's College, and will be try to get the children very much 
A four play subscription series of iperformed at 2pm on June 25, 28 involved." said Dr. Bain. family oriented drama will open on and July 2,5 and 9. Information on the theater series June 20 with the area premier of The second presentation of the and the summer workshop may be Anthoney Shafferer's SLEUTH. Young Peoples Theatre, TALES obtained by calling the theater at The British mystery, directed by FROM MOTHER GOOSE, is a non-284-4176. Special subscription Hichard Bergman of the theater ~cripted play directed by Miles rates and group rates are faculty, will feature Charles Coiner. According to Bain, the available. Ballinger in the role of Andrew, structure of the play is taken 
with Bill McGilln, a senior at Notre Dame, in the role of Milow. Performances will be repeated June 21,27 and 28. 
A revival of Lawrence and Lee's dramatization of the Scope's evolution trial, INHERIT THE WIND, will be presented as a salute to the country's 199 year­celebration. The play, modeled_ after the courtroom battle of Drummond and William Jennings Brian over the famous "monkey" trials, will be directed by Heginald Bain. The cast will in­clude Bill McGilln as Hornbeck, the newspaper reporter, Dan Devile, a Notre Dame graduate, as Cates, the defendant, Katherine Whales, as Rachel, Cates' fiancee, Charles Ballinger as Brady, a figure patterned after, W.J. Brian, and Dan Daley as Clarence Darrow, a character figure of Drummond. The play will be presented July 4th with repeating performances July 5,11 and 12. 
Fred W. Syburg will direct Bernard Shaw's classical romanti<: comedy, ARMS AND THE MAN, on July 18. Set in the nineteenth century, tM play, a satire on war and the professional fighting man, nF.;...:1'!~.­is the basis for the Iater comedy, THE CHOCOLATE SOLDIER. Performances will continue July 19, 25 and 26. 
The final offering will be a musical version of TEN NIGHTS IN A BARROOM, a nineteenth century melodrama directed by r.:..:::..=.._:_::::;__;::l;...oll.l......iB:::IIilliliro.:=-._ ____.::L..il:!!.i..l..____,:iiliiiiiiiiiii 
•·········•··············•······••··•···•·······•••·····•···•·····
.

Letters to .. 
.
.
..


a Lonely 24 H 
~~ 
~

God 
0 

J & J GRILL 
I 

Father Griffin is vacationing in Europe. His column did not M 
327 N. MICHIGAN
reach us in time for publication. 

-THIS WEEKEND ­
..SOUTH SHORE­!MICHIANA'S PRIDE" 

THE ROMA-
ENJov THE "WONDER PIZZA" OVEN BAKED ON BRICKS OR DEEP PAN 219 N. MICHIGAN rso. BEND AT NORTH END ·oF RIVERBEND PLAZA 
t THIS WEEK • t t
RIOYAL­
' t t
AMERICAN S'HOWMEN 
ALSO "L· t t
1s en II 
t 
t












SHDLJrS t t 
liiTB CLUB 
On U.S. 31 between Niles and South Bend-Free Parking-Ph. 683·4350 
--~~~~~~~2~~~~2~-t' 


THIS WEEKEND 
AT I 

NICKlE'S 
DANCE TO "Quartet" (FORNfERL Y "Tanglewood") 
This FRIDAY & SATURDAY From 10:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.~. Every Weekend This Month 

--NO COVER­

FREE PARKING -A&P LOT 
928 N. EDDY, S.B. (Just a·Few Blocks South of NO) 
I . 
Lunches: Monday thru Friday 11 :30-2: 15 
I 
• I 
, D1nner:· i Monday thru Thursday 5:00-11 :00 


u Friday and Saturday 5:00-12:00 1· 11am-11pm
s '8 Sunday 4:00-1 0:00

reverend I ' 
I Daily Dinner Specials 1A


robert 1L
' CI only' $1.49 ' I WE HONOR CHARGE (ARDSgriffin "I> I \ /; L 
55285 U.S. 3l NORTM­

. D A ,y\S\
. 
• I I
.• ' ' 272-5478 
:,..............•....•...........................•.; .........••.• 
,_;I 'J'''W .._-. ( ... ' _._._.,' 'I .t . 1o 1 ~ J o I I I I I 

• t • f, ;, , , .... , ', '4 I, ~j -.. : . ...... . ' ..'.'.. "' '·
~

•.. ~~·,.··'I_ of._,_·.. ~ ·~:~~--'-. . -. .. . . -. --­
~ 




er June 12,1975 





I USB 
Search for Deans continues ... 


Division of continu,ing educatio~ offers 

One down 
by Judy Snaith\ IUSB Reporttr \ 
.. 

The search for a new dean of Student Ser­
vices at IUSB is over. Dr. Robert A. Dubick 
was appointed the new dean by the IU Board 
of Trustees. His appointment becomes 
effective July 1. 
Dubick succeeds Dr. Albert J. Beutler, 
who resigned in the spring of 1974 to become 
president of Bethel College. 
Dubick reacted with pleasure to his recent 
appointment. He served as acting dean of 
student services during the 1974-75 
academic year. 
When Dubick was named interim dean last · 
year, he stated what he believed to be his 
philosophy of the job. Dubick put into effect 
these philosophies throughout the academic 
year and continues to carry them out while 
he is dean. 
"It is my belief that the chief student 
personel officer must be able to identify his 
priorities and articulate his philosophy of 
student services not only to students but to 
the rest of the university as well," said 
Dubick. 
According to Dubick, impersonalism 
created problems for the Student Services' 
office in the past. He hopes to correct this 
situation by having weekly meetings with 
students of IUSB who would like toltalk to 
him. 
"The dean's office exists to help the 
student achieve all the goals of education, 
but additionally, to see that each student is 
treated as an individual with dignity. It is 
the task of .the student services ad­
ministrator to interpret this attitudinal set 
to the rest of the university community," 
said Dubick. 
· Dubick's office oversees administrative 
activities as well as helping the students. 
The offices of admissions, veterans 
representatives, registrar, special services, 
counseling center, financial aids and 
university division are a part ofstudent 
services. 
' One of Dubick's goals as Dean is to get 
together with the student leaders of IUSB 
<Student Association, PREFACE editor, 
Analecta editor and others) once a week to 
talk over problems and to help find solutions 
to any problems. Dubick• believes the 
possibilites of student input are unlimited. 
According to Dubick; students and the 
administration must work together for the 
betterment of IUSB. 
"IUSB has a unique student body with 
many personalities and ages. A university 
should be filled with diversity. A university 
grows with respect," said Dubick. 
I 
wide variety of courses at IUSB 
A wide variety of courses, ranging from "Games Students Play" to photography and bicycle maintenance, are currently being offered by the division of continuing education at Indiana University at South Bend. 
The-division went into full swing this week. Information and registration materials are available in the IUSB office of continuing education in Northside Hall. 1 -­
Classroom Processes I Courses in group processes in the classroom, "games students play," and the function of speech in the "Future Shock" society are being offered. "Understanding the Games Students (and Teachers) Play: Transactional Analysis in the Classroom" is the title of a course in Transactional Analysis for teachers and administrators. Transactional Analysis is a systematic approach to changing human behavior. Craig Hosterman, chairman of IUSB's department of communication arts, will examine the role of speech in future society, stressing new directions in speech and the ways in which they can be incorporated into existing high school speech programs ..Tiae 
One to go 
by Judy Smith IUSB Reporter 
The new Dean of Faculties will be ap­pointed by August 15, 1975, according to Lester M. Wolfson, chancellor at I.U.S.B. 
Dr. Joseph L. Peyser, former Dean of Faculties at IUSB, resigned from that position because of health reasons in April. He is expected to still be teaching a course at IUSB in the fall. 
According to Wolfson, the new dean will be someone from the eight campuses of Indiana University and will be appointed by interviews conducted by him and an ad­visory .screening committee. The com­mittee will be compiled of faculty members and appointed by Wolfson. 
The IUSB Dean of Faculties currently has an immediate staff of an Assistant Dean and an Assistant to the Dean. In addition, the heads of Arts and Sciences, Business and Econimics, Continuing Education, Dental Auziliary Education, Education, General and Technical Studies, the Library, Music, 
and Public and Enviromentat Affairs report 
to the dean's office. 
The qualifications of the job are: 1) Tenure or tenure-elect 2) Senior rank, preferably full professor 3) Evidence of distinctive scholarly and-or creative ac­complishment; or evidence of excellent teaching skills 4) Appropriate prior ad­ministrative experience within an academic school, division, or department. 
Wolfson said that applications or 
nominations will be accepted throuth July 
11, 1975. 
The reason for accepting applications 
from the IU system only and for not having 
an interm Dean of Faculties is speed, ac­\Cording to Wolfson. 
"This is an affirmative action procedure. 
We need someone who knows the Indiana 
University system. If we appointed an 
interm dean and went through a full 
nationwide search, it could take a year or 
more before the office could be filled," said 
Wolfson. 
The decision to appoint the dean Without a 
full search was made through many 
discussions with IUSB faculty and other 
offices, according to Wolfson. 
"As chief internal academic officer of 
IUSB, the Dean of Faculties is responsible 
for the development of the total academic 
program and will be accountable to the 
Chancellor," said Wolfson. 
In addition, the job of dean entails 
responsibilities for the faculty and 
curriculum of IUSB, and the execution of 
such other duties as the Chancellor may 
assign. 

Dubick said that changes would about slowly. "It would be disrespectful to come into the job for total change." 
One of the main problems cited by Dubick is the lack of time he is able to give to student problems. One solution to the problem is a student activities committee. Dubick, also, is considering an assistant to help with the students and paper work of the job. 
"Early in the year, I did not expect to be offered the position, commented Dubick, "I'm very happy here at lUSH. The potential for growth is here." 
Dubick believes the students should have access to any information, and the students should have input into the University. 
Dubick came to IUSB in 1971 in the capacity of director of student activities. He holds the master's and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Notre Dame. He served as a counselor at Kent State University and was there when confrontations on the campus against the police took place. 
His appointment was recommended by an IUSB faculty-and-student search committee which conducted a nationwide search for candida ted. Dr. Michael Stark, Professor of 
Psychology,  was  chairman  ofthe  com­ 
mittee.  
"I looked  for other  possible  positions  

.vhile awaiting the search and screen committee's decision, said Dubick. "But, 1 wanted thejobhere. 1like the students, staff and the Chancellor. This is a good place to 
be." 
cour~e will touch on the electronic and mass super-a equipment, and other equipment for med1a, speech and communication producing and editing multi-media shows. 
"games," and performance-oriented courses versus theory. 
Multi-Med~a 
Richard Feingold will ·teach "Photography for Fun," a basic course for the amateur photographer. 
"Multi-Media for the Layman" will deal with motion-picture, slide-sound and videotape production. The course will teach methods of editing, titling, narrating, sound mixing, scripting, story board techniques, and will include individualized instruction in the use of videotape recording equipment, 35mm and 
The printmaking workshop, coordinated by Marie Schwalbach, will provide students with an opportunity to learn printmaking processes, including photographic equip­ment and a light table. 
Recreational cour~es 
Sailors, pilots, bicycle riders and tennis irAA exam. Persons enrolling in the course 
players will have an opporturiity 'to '1mprove must have logged at least 15 hours of flight. 
their skills through the summer program of • . . . . 
continuing educaton. : A. course m b~cycle tourmg, selection and _John Makielski, 35-year veteran sailor \mau~tenance w1l.l b~ taught by Marb Scher, and championship racer will teach the ,pres1dent of M1ch1ana Wheelers and an theory and practice of s~all boat sailing. )experienced bicycle-tourist. Local con­of owning a pitions, geography and unusually scenic


· tours will be discu~sed. Aspects of buying _ and maintaining multi-speed bikes will be reviewed. 
"Tennis for Health," a four-week course desighed to teach the fundamentals of the game or to improve play, will be held at the Raquet Club in Mishawaka. Instructors will be club professionals. Sections for begin­ners and more experienced students are planned. 
boat, and how to select a craft will be in­
cluded. 
Private-pilot ground school instrn~tion for 
persons who plan to take the Federal 
AVeation Agency Private Pilot Written 
Examination will be taught by Maj. William 
A. Smith, USAF, a 6,000-hour professional pilot and assistant professor of aerospace studies. The objective of the course is for 
·each student to complete satisfactorily the 


~------------------------------------------------------~--------­

Last of the Winter Sports 
by Bob Kissel 
At long last the winter pro sports, basketball and hockey, have concluded their seasons, just before the advent of the summer mosquito swarms. Think back and try to remember the first exhibition game in either spor­
t. ..seems like ancient history. 
The real story of the NHL playoff series was not Philadeophia's six-game Stanley Cup victory over the Bulfalo Sabres, but the unexpected semi-final series .results prior to t he f i n a Is . 
All the old pros, hockey nuts, and young upstarts had no second thoughts about clearly picking the pride of Canada, Les Montreal Canadiens, over the "expansion" Buffalo Sabres. The series began in Bulfalo with the Sabres coming out ontop with two tight victories, one in overtime. 
The stage show moved to the Forum in Montreal, where, ac­cording to general consensus, the Canadiens would begin to play hockey. And play they did, taking away two lopsided victories from the Sabres, 7-1 and 8-2. It didn't take much to know that Les Canadiens were back. 
It's probably good for Buffalo 
coach Floyd Smith that most of his 
players don't speak French, 
Montreal style, for they might 
have started to believe in the in­
vincibility of Montreal. But the 
Sabres either don't speak French 
or weren't listening, as the Sabres 
won the fifth game in their ancient 
arena. The young team, let by the 
famous French Connection line of 
Gil Perreault, Richard Martin, and 
Rene Robery never backed down. The sixth game was played
before the usual capacity crowd in the Forum, but the Sabres, did the unmentionable, drubbing the 
Canadiens 6_2 before the 1fery
demanding Montreal crowd. Exit 
Les Canadiens, enter Les Sabres. 
In the other semi-final series, the 
Broad Street Bullies, also known 
as the Philadelphia Flyers, looked 
as if they were about to rout the 
cinderella team of the NHL 
playolfs, the New York Islanders. 
The fc'lyers took a 3-0 game 
again. The Islanders won their 
round series against the Pitt­
sburgh Penguins, winning the last 
four straight, overcoming a 3-o 
game deficit. 
IslandergoalieGlennReschwas 
the hero as the younguns' from 
New York defeated Philly three 
straight, once in the city of 
Brotherly Love. Once again the 
Islanders had forced an older, 
more established hockey club into 
a sudden death playoff game, this 
time defending Cup-holders the 
Flyers. The old sayiilg history never repeats itself unfortunately shined true for New York, as the Flyers downed the Islanders 5-2, to send the Bullies into the finals against Les Sabres. 
Buffalo and Philadelphia traded rb•e,.n;;;c;;;;h,;..-----------. two-game home sweeps, with the highlights of the games at Buffalo, 


WILL DOTYPING 

SHAMROCK
not being the hockey action, but the fog. You see, the fine city of 
-EXPERIENCED­

Buffalo,NewYorkhasnotheardof 
Downtown S B 
the modern invention of air-
CALL: 233-8512 

the fog, a result of ninety degree 
conditioning. 
The battle against r~~~~~~~~~~;~~~~~;~=~~:::2:2:8::N~.:M:A:I:N:::;
temperature and high humiidity, 
caused consternation among both LAST TIME TONIGHT benches. The first game's fog (in Buffalo) was dispelled by the "ROSEBUD" 
players promenading around the ice to stir up the dead air. Game 
House Painting 
. 
DOES YOUR HOME NEiD PAlNTlNG? 
EXPERIENCED 
PAINTERS (TWO N.D. GRADUATES) WILL PAINT INTERIOR­
SXTERIOR 
VERY REASONABLEII 

......... a~ne 
Four in Buffalo revealed the The NBA draft was held recently master plan ... stadium workers and as expected Atlanta used their were issued skates and bedding first pick to snatch all-American sheets, to form a crazy parade of David Tompson from North human fog-lifters. And it worked. Carolina State. Thompson's 
Phily's Bernie Parent (awarded lawyer-agent was quoted as saying Conn Smythe t~o.phy for MVP in he is going to make Mr. Thompson playoff co~petltlon) a.nd Bobby the richest pro athlete ever. The Clarke decided thatthes1lver cup of bidding wars start once again Lord Byron Stanley <which holds between the venerable NBA and seven bottles of champagne) had the relative newcomer ABA. to stay in Philadelphia, or the natives might not be so brotherly or loving;. Well the Flyers won the : Atlanta also used its other first next two, finishing off Les Sabres ' round choice to draft all-American 
1
in Buffalo, keeping the Cup in forward Marvin 'the Eraser' Phily for the second straight year. IWebster out of Morgan State. NHL Comissioner Clarence J Marvin's man says he is going to 
Campbell, after Buffalo had sealed at least the temporary fate of the Canadiens, issued a memo to all concerned in the league, that from now on the word 'expansion' was not to be in the vocabulary of the National Hockey League. "For it's a long way to Tipperrary ... " 
Over in the other sector of the pro winter sports world, the Bolden State Warriors <picked to finish fourth in their division by a preseason poll> took apart the heavily favored Washington Bullets in only four games. Amazing. Unexpected. 
Aure the big hero was Rick Barry, who even TV commentator Oscar Robertson' was com­plimenting by the end of the series. 
But the sour~e of ~trength f~r coach AI Attles Warriors .was hi~ 
no-~ame bench. PalPlpike Phil events. The 24 year old from Coos 
Smith, Cha~les Dudley • .and Derrek Dickey remamed anonymous off the court, and also 
on the court. After the opening game of the 
final series, in which Smith snuck in 20 points in 30 minutes, a Washington reporter asked the 
obvious of Mr. Smith, "Who are you?" "What'?" • "Who are You ? I mean, if you had to introduce yourself to the public what would you say?" Smith after a brief period of pondering the simple, but nonetheless piercing question 
replied, "Well, I'd say, 'Hi, I'm Phil Smith from the University of San Francisco.': 
Who could believe (even now after the results are history) that 
rookie Keith 'Silk' Wilkes could corralall-proElvinHayes'? orthat Chicago Bull reject Clifford Ray 
could possibly hope to pick off rebounds against both Hayes and 'tiny' Wes Unseld'? 
Well it happened and it happened in four straight games, with the Warriors playing solid basketball 
at both ends of thecourt. Wilkes, held Hayes to far below his average and Ray was able to hold his own on the boards. But the real factor just may have been those invisible, at least to the Bullets, 
, substitutes from the Golden State 
SWEENEY'S­
negotiate a million dollar contract, regardless of the league. 
-And fans thought ticket prices are too high_. ·,,Where Atlanta materializes the cash to pay both Thompson's and Webster's con­tracts, if they sigh with the 
_ Hawks, will be quite a trick. 
And finally Notre Dame all­American soph Adrian Dantley did remove his name from the basketball hardship list and will return in the fall to playfor. the Irish. You can breath out now Digger. 
A final note, both tragic and sad, was the May 30th death of distance runner Steve Prefontaine. 'Pre' was America's major hope for Olympic gold medals in the longer 
Bay, Oregon, though an outspoken critic of the AAU and Olympic committees, held every US 
distance mark from two miles on up to 10 000 meter 
' · Prefontaine's death is sad for American hopes in the 1976 
Montreal Games, but tragic that~~~ 
the autopsy l'eport stated that the runner was criminally intoxicated at the time of his auto crash. Prefontaine was driving home after a party for a few visitinll 
Finnish runners. 
2 BLOCKS EAST OF STEPAN CENTER. $150 per MO. INCL. UTILITIES 2 CAH GAHAGE, FENCED 
YAHD  
:1  nnn.  CAHPET'  Fl!R­ 
NISIIED.  WASHER  AND  
nnYEn.  

mEAL Fon FACVLTY CALL MHS. COOPEH 
272-300~ 
WELCOME SUMMER STUDENTS 
15
Thursd•Y, June12, 1975 the observer 

farei1n Car Par·ts Co. 
Parts & accessories for Imported car for all makes at lowest prices. 
...lonal Dletributor 
~********************** 
.·: For all Students, Faculty & Staff, a 10 * Jt percent discount with ID and purchase of ~*'$10 or more * 
'***********************•
215 .Dixie Way N Roseland· So. Bend 

J.l99t ·puJ 'pues y~nos 
'IIAY puag ·os Z'OII 
,.UMQ • lJftJ)I lf>IQ
LOLO-tH 
.lN3WNOil't' lVIO 1HHM 3'1M3S 3l1Vlll d0·3NOl HOlOW 

3JIAH~S OYOH I!~ !n~~~)I)~HA\ ~ L 
:=:.::~~ ~· I
3)J;;3s ~ 
·~ 






~ $,)1)10 
UOifl' .lN't'.lSNI 
,....._..._,..._..._..._.,...._..._..._..._,..._..._,,,..._..._..._,.,...._~ 
~ ~ 
;11111 
~ 
II'! 
~ 
~ 
~ 
;IIIII 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
II'! 
;11111 
~WE SELL KEGS AT THE CHEAPEST! 
II'! J'.! 
~ . . PRICE IN TOWN . ~ 
~ ,._ 
II'! . II'! 
~ · 287·2581 ~ 
1
~ .. _. 
.._..,.,...._.,....._...._..._.,.,.,...._..._~........-....._...._,.,..,...._, 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR RENT 
Nice family home for rent. $175 plus utilities. 3""bedroom, 2 full baths and fam lly room. Garage yard. EvenlnQS (233.5524). Days 259·6376 
WANTED 
ATTENTION FELLOW ALUM~ll. 
I I AM A 1975 GRADUATE WH'' lSI CURRENTLY UNEMPLOYED. ANYONE IN A POSITION TO HELP ME PLEASE CALL ,JOE AT 288-7565. 
Classified Ads may be. placed In /the Observer by coming to the Observer Office the Thursday, I Sunday, or Monday prior to the . t>dltion you wish to place the ad. Classified sections Include FOR 
. .  WORDS  I  ISSl!E  
l-10  ,85  
11-15  1.20  
16-20  1.50  
21-25  1.90  
I 26-30 I\ 31-35  2.30 2.65  

1

" ( H E ( K Q U T ~ 
--. -~ ~
HOPS N' SPIRITS!II'! 
II'! 
;11111 
~ 
II'! 
THIS Wf f KS ,Spf CIA L !~ 
II'! 
j 
IIIII
FOUR POPULAR .BEERS ~ AT FOUR SPECIAL PRICES ~ ~ 
~ ~ 
We turn 
ourselves upside down to please you 
\ 

ATDICK'S 
10 PERCENT DISCOVNT 
TO  N.D.  AND  I.U.  
STUDENTS.  AND  
FACULTY.  

MON.-SAT. 'lam-1\pm SUN. 9 am-9pm 
NOTICES Interested In no.frllls low cost let travel to Europe, Afrlc.a, Middle East, Far East at minimum cost, maximum flexibility and minimum hassle? For information call EDUCATIONAL FLIGHT$ toll .free (800) 223·5569 
•)oes your home need painting? Two experienced painters will do It for moderate prlces.Good work, good references. Call 234·1889 far II Free Estimate. 
R IE' N T , P E R S 0 N A L S , NOTICES, FOR SALEWANTED I and LOST AND FOVND. A partial rate list can. be found below; for more information, call 
283-1715 or 283-8661.  
2 ISSVES  3 ISSUES  
I 1.15  1.35  
1.70  2.05  
2.15  2.35  
2.75  3.40  
3.35  4.15  
3.85  

·­
\ 
r 
,. • 
" 


L~ 

-
16 the observer n.u...,-y , June 12, 1975 
*Observer






-Sports 
Blue-Gold ga:me displays talents 
Many of the big guns weren't there, guys like Frank Allocco, Jim Stock, Tom Parise, Rick Slager and Marv Russell. But all things considered, the Irish performed well in their first dress rehearsal under new head coach Dan Devine--the 45th Annual Blue-Gold Gam~.> May 3. 
''Th~.> main thing we get out of a game like that is experience," says Devine. "We'll have a better idea of where we're going after fall practices. But we got in a lot of good work in the Blue-Gold game. Situations came up that we couldn't possibly create in -· practice --playing before a crowd, using the clock and having of­ficials. · "We went with all the freshmen quarterbacks (Joe)Montana, .(GarylForystek and <Mike ) Falash. These kids need a lot of ex­perience, so this game was a valuable opportunity for them. We lost a couple of our running backs early fn the game with injuries. Jim Weiler and Steve Schmitz left early and both of them have had really good springs. Rohman suited up but did not play. He had a bad shoulder" Rain marred a sluggish first half but then on sometimes slippery turf, Joe Montana cranked up his throwing arm and pitched the varsity Blues to a 38-6 victory over the Whites. "I wasn't particularly excited about it, but I never am in the spring, but then I wasn't disappointed either,"said Devine. "I think we accomplished quite a bit this spring under the cir­cumstances. We lacked some continuity because of injuries and a great number of sessions missed because of late classes." The rain and the slippery turf slowed the performance in the first half, but fumbles also contributed to the lack of scoring. The Whites seized an early lead on a Pat McLaughlin field goal but the Blues grabbed a 10-3 halftime margin. Quarterbacks Gary Forystek, the starter fQr the Blues, and Montana, starter for the Whites, exchanged places with the Blues leading 10-6 in the third period. Then, Montana rifled a 33-yard beauty that Ted Burgmeier grabbed in the corner of the end zone and the Blues were off and running. Early in the fourth period, Montana flipped a short screen pass that Mark McLane ran 58 yards for a score with the help of a Bob Walls' block. And later on Montana hit tight end Ken MacAfee who made a sliding catch of 10 yards for the score. Art Best, the game's leading ball carrier with 112 yards in 18 carries, tallied the final touchdown from the five late in the game. Best was one of the players cited by Devine for doing a good job despite being able to practice only two days a week because of late "labs." Montana completed seven of 12 passes for 131 yards for the Blues after he missed his first nine and completed only four of 14 for the
.. 
Whites. Forystek connected oneightof 20 for the Blue and then only one of four for the Whites. Kerry Moriarty, the only upperclassman used, hit four of five passes for 38 yards late in the game .. 
McLane added 86 yards in 14 carries to help the Blues to a net 215 yards rushing. Steve Orsini, cited for a Hering Award as the top freshman back, gained 39 for the Whites. 
There were some outstanding plays in the game. Burgmeier broke loose for a 50-yard bunt return before he was hauled down in traffic by Tom Frericks; Dan Kelleher grabbed a 46-yard pass , from Montana that he had to take away from Randy Payne with a great catch; and Rich Allocco caught the Blues defense nappingIlate in the third period and ran 35 yards on a fourth-down punting 
situation. . 
1 There were 10 fumbles in all' five of them lost•by the Whites and three by the Blues. Randy Harrison, the usually sure-handed safetyman, fumbled the ball away on two punts, while Mike Par­seghian had his troubles for the Whites. Father A.ra was watching Mike from the press box in his first look at the Irish this spring. 
Devine left the field and w_atched the final-period from the press box, something he said he has done previously in spring games. ''From this press box, you do get an idea of the tempo of the game because you are close to the field." 
Penalties for pass interference cost the Whites, as did a couple of facemask assessments. There were nine penalties, five of them majors, against the two teams. 
Late in the game, the Blues kicked off twice from the 25 and once from the 20 after scores in an attempt to give the Whites a little better field position. 
The scrimmage was the highest scoring affair for the No. 1 unit all spring, and it was the first time in the' last three scrimmages that the No.1 defense checked the second unit without a touchdown. Pat McLaughlin's field goals of 34 and 36 yards accounted for the scores on Saturday. 

Defensively, Jeff Weston set the pace for the Blues, though Tony Novakov wasn't far behind~ Nick DeCicco~ept~usy for the Whites at linebacker. Steve \Niehaus played little, yielding his position to Jay Achterhoff. Devine said, "Achterhoff needs the work and Steve doesn't" 
More than 80 players saw action for the two teams, though Devine reserved only 35 for the Blues. Several players worked for both teams after \SWitching jerseys. 
No one knows.better than Dan Devine and his coaches that Notre Dame will improve by the time of next fall's opening game. But Devine said he was a firm believer in "playing with what you have in the locker room.". 

What he meant was that there could not be too much emphasis on talent that was missing from the wrap-up for spring practice. 
Dantley goes
Hopefully, many injured players will be ready in the falf, and they'll be joined by the freshman group and other returnees. 

lrish,again in '75 
Five of the six football players suspended last year for violations Adrian Dantley, the nation's secondof University policy have reapplied for admission for the 1975-76 leading scorer last season as a sophomore,school year. The five were either starters or top reserves two years has decided to return to Notre Dame for hisago. The sixth already has transferred to Southwest Louisiana, a junior year. Dantley had ~rlier applied for school near his home, and Notre Dame has released his aid tender. 
the National HBasketball Association's hardship list for the purpose of beingThe guidelines for their readmission have been pretty well ex­drafted.
tablished by the administration," says Devine. "They were mgde The 6-foot-5 'dantley, who averaged 30.4
before I came here. But I would be remiss if I didn't say I've talked points a game last season, was one of 18to all five of them and most of their parents. And I was impressed 1 collegians--along with two high schoolers-­with their desire to continue their education. 
who asked that they be make eligible for the NBA college draft before they finishea their"Three of them are unusually good students. The other two are schoolin.
good and could go to any college in the country. But one of the The NBA draft was held May 29 and, inptjertjree fomosjed tjord om a c;ass pf 800." 
order to remain eligible collegiately, . Notre Dame fans who watched the spring game were en­The NBA draft was held May· 29 and, inthusiastic about one thing --the number of passes thrown. The order to remain eligible collegia~ely, aBlues threw 33 times, the Whites 27. And football fans like to see the player had to withdraw his name from theball in the air. 
list 24 hours before the draft. There was much more passing in the game not because Devine is 
"I want to do more things in life than much more pass-oriented than predecessor Ara Parseghian . 
basketball," said Dantely. "So m~ny players don't make it in pro ball and can'tDevine said, "play with what you have in the locker room." And it just so happens at the moment that Devine has some passers in the 
accept it. When I sent the certified letter in I lineup, whether it's a Gary Forystek or a Joe Montana. . 
cried. I cried. I just felt so proud of-myself that tears ran out of my eyes." 
Montana' and Forystek have good arms, are usually timely in The 20 year old Dantley has his eyes on releasing the ball, and are pretty much on target. They'll need I making the Olympic team next year, plenty of work before being ready for some top college defenses in ' breaking Austin Carr's scoring records at the fall. Until the last week or so, neither was running ahead of Notre Dame and becoming college Rick Slager (and earlier Frank Allocco). -basketball's player of the year. 



Parseghian looks back on past coaching years at Notre Dazne 
, The change has obviously done by. Now -there are four and thus "So what I'm going to do is see him good. He wasn't the same far I've enjoyed the four months." how I feel and try to live without it drawn, haggard-looking guy who Parseghian rocked the sports if I can. It will be a whole year and appeared on national television in world last Dec. 15 by announcing then in December I'll make a December to announce he was that he was stepping down as Notre d.ecision on whether I want to get stepping down as Notre Dame's · Dame's head coach after a back into coaching or not. 22nd head football coach. fabulous career that placed him 
Ara Parseghian stood on the top alongside the legends of Knute "IfI get itchy feet I'll get back in deck of the Notre Dame press box. Rockne and Frank Leahy. it. If i can live without it, I will. I He never had been up there before He made his final appearance a have no commitments to anybody much less watched a football game couple weeks later when the un­and nobody has any commitments from that vantage point. _ derdog Irish knocked off Alabama to me. And that is just exactly 
A deep tan complemented the 13-11 in the Orange Bowl. w~at is taking J?lace,"he said. navy blue sports coat and checked Immediately after that victory slacks and a general look of well­and for some weeks hardly anyone Ara also is getting reacquainted being took the place of his usual believed Parseghian could stay with his family. "I come home in intensity. He smiled frequently. away from ~oaching for ayear. He the evening now·. Of course, I'm on 
"I'll be honest with you," he had been at it for a quarter of a the road a great deal but my wife, said. "I haven't missed it yet. I century. Reports had him going to Katie, has gone with me on about enjoyed spring football. I always this pro team and then that one. 50 per cent of the trips. did because it gives you a chance , But nothing happened. "I feel good," he said. "It's a 
to experiment and so forth. different kind of a pressure. It was 
"But really, when spring "The big test is going to come in a self-inflicted pressure I had here. practice started here, I was only the fall," he said. "You know the Nobody here was putting any three months from rny last game. -game strategy, the preparation, pressure on me. I feel· com­It was Jan. 1 and they started here the emotion ··and spirit and fortable. I'll just have to wait and in early April. So three month_s ~. everything that ~oes into it. see what happens." 
1 









