

LaFortune Student Center 
renovations completed 

by Chris Smith) 
Hy Don Reimer Senior Staff Reporter 

The renovation of the LaFortune Student Center has been completed at a cost of $190,000 of the original $250,000 allotment from the Board of Trustees. This information was revealed yesterday by Fr. Jerome Wilson, university vice-president for business affairs. 
Remodeling of the Huddle, the only unfinished part of the renovation plans, is being delayed because the $60,000 remaining in the fund is insufficient to com­plete the project. 
"I think the renovation was pretty successful," said Hon Blitch, a fifth year architecture student who worked on the plans. "It's a shame it couldn't all have been done at once, because they increased the price of everything by doing it piecemeal," he con­tinued. 
"They paid an awful price for indecision," said Blitch referring to the $190,000 cost of renovation. He explained that if the renovation of the whole building had been contracted for at once, rather that in parts as it was done, the total price might have been reduced. 
lmprovemtmts Made 

Included in the improvements were refurbishing of the lounge of the first floor, installation of new staircases, relocation of student government and publication offices, and painting the interior of the building. 
Renovation of the Huddle is the major piece of work yet to be done, though its remodeling was originally the number-<>ne priority in renovation plans. The original order of the major work called for the remodeling of the Huddle, followed by the relocation of student government and publications offices, and 
Due to typo 

the refurbishing of the lounge area. 
"The reason the Huddle was dropped from first on the list was because of the length of time taken to decide how to remodel it," said Wilson. 
In the October 16, 1974 issue of the Observer Blitch stated, "The Huddle is still the first priority but the work there would have to wait until next summer and we want at least to be able to show that something is being done." 
However by January, 1975 work on the Huddle had been given last priority "because of the size and expense of the project" according to a statement made by Blitch in that issue. 
Nt>ed More Funds for Huddle 
Presently, the remodeling of the Huddle is in "limbo" according to Wilson, because the $60,000 remaining from the original grant is inadequate to fund the operation. 
"We know that $60,000 isn't enough money to add on the room to the Huddle because we would have to tear off the entire roof of the pool room, over which the additional space would be added," stated Wilson. He extima ted the present cost of remodeling the Huddle to be at least $150,000. 
Blitcli felt "that if the administration really wanted 
to do something to improve the Huddle, they could," 
even with the lesser funds. He added that plans for 
the remodeling had already been drawn up. 
Reacting to Blitch's statement, Wilson commented, 
"As far as I'm concerned, I'm not interested in doing 
the Huddle over unless we can do the whole thing and 
really do what the students want." 
(continued on page 4) 

SMC students overcharged 
by Pt>ggy Frericks and Mary Janca 
St. Mary's student government fees for the 1975-76 school year were accidentally increased from $10 to $14, due to a typographical error, according to Student Government President Joan McDermott. 
This higher fee, along with a list of other student fees, was billed to students during the summer vacation. The error was discovered approximately two weeks ago by Stevie Wernig, assistant to the vice president for student affairs, and McDermott. 
At a Student Assembly meeting last week, representative Kathy Pugliese proposed an option to remedy the situation. Under the proposal, SMC students have the choice of collecting the $4 rebate, or of contributing the overcharge to the construction of proposed recreation facility. 
In last evening's mail, all SMC students received a letter from student government, disclosing the error, and urging them to con­tribute the $4 to the recreation center fund. 
The letter further explained that students would have a week to obtain the rebate. Ifnot notified by Sept. 24, student government will forward the $4 per student to the fund for the new gym. 
On-campus students should detach the slip on the bottoms of the letter, and return it to their hall office by next Wednesday, in­dicating whether they wish to collect their rebate, or to donate it. 

Off-campus and day students are asked to return their slips to the Student Affairs office. 
"We are sorry for this oversight, and we are now in the process of correcting the situation," com­mented McDermott. 
The typographical error, it was discovered, was originally made when last year's fees were being itemized. However, the $4 over­charge was not included in the total, so students were not over­charged last year. 
When this year's student bill was being tabulated, however, the incorrect $14 was copied from last year's bill, and student govern­ment fee was added onto the total. As a result, students were over­charged. · 

Reflections on a Bangladesh trip 

Editor's Note: AI Sondej, Co-founder of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's World Hunger Coalition, spent this past summer travelling around the world. 
Notre Dame President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh suggested and sponsored the trip, which took Sondej to parts of Asia, Arrica, Europe and the Middle East. 
The following letter addressed to Fr. Hesburgh contains Sondej's rerlections on the two-month period he spent in Bangladesh, ob­serving and working with various developmental projects. 
Dear Father Hesburgh, 
You knew what you were talking about when you said that you thought it would be a good idea for me to see the faces of the hungry, the sick, the homeless, the illiterate, and the poor. To be quite frank with you, I originally did not think that this trip would affect me that much, but next to Tom Hamilton, Peter Neary (a high school teacher who taught me to question values), and my family of course, nothing has affected me more. Last year I earned $35 a week, but after seeing 1-5th of Bangladesh's 75 million people each making only $18 a year, I know that I will never be poor. The filth, the stench, the garbage, the much that the people of poverty eat in, work in, sleep in, and die in is something that could never be imagined. And what is really horrible is that these conditions af­fect most of mankind, and will continue to do so until people change their basic attitudes and behavior. 
I was always aware that changing the values of others is 
something that is beyond my power. But through this trip, thanks 
to you, it has finally sunk in that changing others should not be the 
primary purpose of my actions. One loves another ultimately, not 
by intending to motivate that person to change, but perhaps by 
simply being what that person needs. One can only hope that the 
values of others will change. To give up of oneself for another is one 
thing, to ask others to do the same is quite another. It's just so easy 
to deceive oneself into thinking that it's better to try and jam ideals 
down society's throat, instead of offering what little one can of 
oneself and accepting the fact that it's going to make "only a dent". 
So finally realizing that there is a difference between making 
students aware of mankind's enormous and immediate challenge, 
the development of social equality in a finite biosphere; and im­
posing upon them a situation in which they are publically con­
fronted to respond everyday, I have decided that this will be my 
last panhandling year under the Golden Dome. By the way, I can 
see why you said that Notre Dame has the greatest student body in 
the world. They not only put up with me pestering them everday, 
but also selflessly contributed over $14,000 last school year. And I'll 
always be grateful to them for that. 
Father, after seeing unimaginable poverty, I can't help but question the morality of nations and even individuals, myself in­cluded of course, owning surplus resources that the poor majority of people need. However, recognizing private property rights the observer Thursday, September 18, 1975 


Anti-abortion bill killed 


warld briefs 
INDIANAPOLIS <AP) -The State Board of Health says 11 persons are suspected to have died from St. Louis encephalitis in Indiana so far this year--but presence of the disease cannot be verified until tests are completed. 
A spokesman for the board said Wednesday it takes about two and a half weeks to analyze tissue from a deceased person. 
SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Republic (AP) -Hurricane 'Eloise raced through the northern part of the Dominican Republic on Wednesday, taking at least six more lives after killing22 periiODS and inflicting record devastation in Puerto Rico. 
The storm, packing 80 mile-an-hour winds and torrent~~l ra~s. also dumped torrential rains on the northeast coast of Haiti, which shares the island of Hispaniola with the Dominican Republic, and was expected to curve west-northwest toward eastern Cuba. 
WASHINGTON <AP) --The House International Relations Committee approved, 20-9, a bill authorizing $185 million i~ arms sales to Turkey, plus arms sales needed for Turkey to carrymg out its North Atlantic Treaty commitments. 
INDIANAPOLIS <AP) --Vice president Nelson Rockefeller has confirmed an Oct. 23 visit to Indiana--his first since assuming his office, Republican State Chairman Thomas Milligan said Wed­nesday. 
WASHINGTON <AP) -The government reported Wednesday that individual income from private industry climbed 1.8 percent in August, the largest hike in 16 years and further evidence of a broadening economic recovery. 

an campus taday 
4:00 p.m. ·· lecture, "the production of children's rehearsal strategies," rm. 119, haggar hall. 
4:00p.m... se~inar, "energy and research In chemical physics," radiation research conference rm. 
6:30p.m... interview information, eng. aud. 
6:30 p.m. --demonstration, hair care and cutting, lemans basement. 
7:30p.m. --obscenity conference, speaker: robert rodes, prof. of law at nd, cce. 
8:00 p.m... concert, christian walevska, cellist, o'laughlin aud., tickets $12.50 gen. admission, $•1 students. 
Does she or doesn't she? 
COPENHAGEN, Denmark (AP) -A court has ruled that a policeman can tell from the way a woman walks whether she is soliciting or not, a decision that has enraged Danish prostitutes. 
"This is ridiculous," snapped the 22-year-old woman on trial. "If police can judge from a girl's way of walking whether she is out to make business then they should arrest a lot of ladies all over town." 
The arresting officer told a district court trying the woman on multiple soliciting charges Tuesday that he had frequently watched her on the street where she lives in Copenhagen's red light district of Vesterbro, a short walk from the downtown luxury hotel district. 
"I took action only when she was obviously soliciting, and that was easily determined from the way she walked," the policeman testified. 
On his testimony alone the woman was fine $150 -the latest in a hail of fines raining on Vesterbro prostitutes. 
The woman did not deny she was a prostitute. Prostitution is legal in Denmark, but soliciting in a public place is not. 
Group to study sex bias 
by Kathy Byrne Staff Reporter 

A study group at St. Mary's College, commissioned by a federal grant to help end sexual discrimination in the South Bend Community School Corporation, will begin public workshops on sexual discrimination this Saturday. 
Project CHOICE (Creating Human Options in Children's Education), supported by a·$48,118 grant from the U.S. Department of Health, Education and ·Welfare, will hold ten such public workshops this year. Topics range from an action model study of the Kalamazoo, Mich. school system this Saturday, to the final draf~ of the resolution for the elimination federal law, and it is easier for us to do it for them. That's why we have so many administrator participants coming to us," she added. 
The twenty participants are members of the South Bend school system in key positions with whom the directors of Project CHOICE felt it would be best to work. There will be one workshop that will be closed to all but thesEJ. twenty of­fiCial participants. ~ 
In addition to the Kalamazoo representatives this Saturday, Marcia Sheridan of the Depart­ment of Education at I.U.S.B. will give a needs assessment of the South·;Bend school system. Details can be''obta,ined by calling Project CHOICE at 284-4087, Monday -'Friday. 



High court ruling stands 
Washington AP -A Senate Judiciary subcommittee refused Wednesday to begim an effort to overturn the Supreme Court decision allowing abortion on demand in the early months of pregnancy. 
The subcommittee's series of votes on proposed constitutional amendments concerning the highly emotional issue appeared to kill anv chance during this session of Congress to overturn the 1973 court ruling. 
Sen. Birch Bayh., D-Ind., the subcommittee chairman, said he regarded it as highly unlikely that an attempt would be made to revive any of the proposed amendments in the full Judiciary Committee. 
Outside the room where the subcommittee acted behind closed doors, women from opposing pro-abortion and right-to life groups awaited the outcome of the votes. Among them was a man reading aloud from a Bible. 
The Planned Parenthood Federation of America called the committee's action "a courageous stroke in the defense of the physical health, personal well­being and economic equity of American women ... It raises the hnnP. that we may now end the 
fruitless d~bate over the legality of abortion .." The , National Abortion Rights Action League said it "is a clear victory for those who support abortion rights." 
Terence Cardinal Cooke, chairman of the Catholic Bishops Committee for Pro-Life Ac­
tivities, said the subcommittee's actions was "disappointing but not the fillfll word. For millions of Americans, non-Catholics and Catholics alike, who oppose 
CIA accepted commandS 
•f 'wr•tten •n blood'
as 1 1 
By LAWRENCE L. KNUTSON 
Associated Press Writer 

WASHINGTON <AP) -For­mer CIA Director Richard Helms testified Wednesday his employes were trained to ac­cept oral commands as "orders written in blood" -and there­fore he had spurned ink and pa­per when relaying a directive from the President of the United States. 
Helms said the CIA's failure to destroy its cache of poisons in accordance with former President Richard M. Nixon's order was an. "odd aberration" unlikely to recur. 
He told the Senate In­telligence Committee that while he issued no written backup or­der he had assumed the shellf­
ish  toxin  and other poisons  had  
been destroyed.  
Sen.  Walter  Mondale,  D­ 

Minn., told Helms and Thomas Karamessines, the CIA's for­mer deputy director for plans, that their responses pinpoint the difficulty the committee has had in assessing responsibility inside CIA for a wide variety of questionable actions, including the alleged assassination of for­eign leaders. 
"The situation always is something happened and no­bod_Y did it," Mondale said. 
Shortly after Helms testified, it was announced that Sidney Gottlieb, a former CIA scientist whom Karamessines identified as the person to whom he re­layed the order to destroy the toxins, has told the committee through his lawyer he will in­voke the Fifth Amendment and refuse to answer questions. 
The committee is seeking to question Gottlieb, former head of the agency's Technical Serv­ices Division, in connection with both the retention of the shellfish toxin and the destruc­tion of records about the CIA's testing of LSD and other behav­ior-modifying drugs. 
Frederick A. o: Schwarz Jr., the committee's chief counsel, said the Justice Department has been told that if Gottlieb does invoke his constitutional 
of se~sm in the South Bend ~~~~IIII..IIII,!III~~I!....II..IIIB..BI~~----.... ~:::e~e~hich will take place in •c::At . -F0fe Ign 0 • 
"The public is welcome, students \ especially," said Suzanne Johnson, 
'?.1 Parts & accessories for imported carf. 
a spokesperson for Project 
M? f 11 k 1 
C.H.O.I.C.E. to all students of 
lR••ionar or a rna es at owest prices. education. The discussions will go 
Pistributor 

'********••••••***********over a wide range of subjects'all 
:·For N D Students, Faculty & Staff 10 it
year." 
*:percent discount with I D & pur-~ 
"The South Bend Comml,Ulity School Corporation is very happy 
~chase of $10 or more. * that we're doing this for them," 
************************. 
Joh:,son continued. "They have toJIIII!!.JaM•IIII••••••iilil&iilil&•liliiiiiiia•lllllll
de-it anyway, because of Ute new 
1 

right to avoid self-in­crimination, the committee will se"ek to compel his testimony by granting him immunity for whatever he might say. 
Both Helms, now U.S. am­bassador to Iran, and Karames­sines testified that Gottlieb ap­peared to agree fully with them that the order issued early in 1970 by former president Rich­ard_M. Nixon was valid, did ap­ply to the CIA, and should be complied with. 
The order renounced the use by the United States of chem­ical and biological weapons and directed that they be destroyed. 
Dr. Nathan Gordon, the CIA scientist actually in charge of the agency's chemical weapons division operation MK Naomi -testified Tuesday he and two associates decided on their own they need not comply with the order. 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session. except during exams and vacation periods. The Observer 's published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St Mary's College 
Subscriptions may be purchased for 10 dollars per semester ( 18 dollars per year) from The Ob server. Box Q. Notre Dame. tn d•ana. 46556. Second Class postage paid. Notre Dame. IN 46556. 


LIQUID SILVER & TURQUOISE CHOKERS NORMALLY $19.95 ·-NOW $10.00 (WITH THIS COUPON) 
MICHIANA'S LARGEST STOCK OF INDIAN 
JEWELRY 

--CUSTOM SILVERSMITHING 
·-REPAIRS TO INDIAN JEWELRY 
·-GIFT CERTIFICATES FOR THAT BIRTHDAY 
OR CHRISTMAS GIFT 
--LAYAWAY 

--MASTER CHARGE + + BANK AMERICARD 
abortion will continue their efforts to secure full legal protection for the unborn." 
Bayh said he voted against all of the proposed amendments but would immediately introduce legislation designed to provide alternatives to abortion for women who have an unintended pregnancy. 
Bayh declined to say how other subcommittee members voted on· the proposed constitutional amendments, but other sources gave this rundown: 
Voting for the Helms amend­ment were Thurmond and Sen. Hiram L. Fong, R-Hawaii; against it, in addition to Bayh, were Sens. Jamews Abourezk, D-S.D.; Quentin F. Burdick, D-N.D., Charles F. Mathias, R-MD., and Scott. 
On the Scott states rights amendment, Sen,. James 0. Eastland, D-Miss., chairman of the 
full Judiciary Committee, voted 
for it by proxy, as did Thurmond 
and Scott. Against it were Bayh,
Burdick, Abourezk, Mathias and Fong. 
The tie vote on the other states rights amendment was Scott, Burdick, Thurmond and Eastland by proxy for, and Bayh, Abourezk, Mathias and Fong and Mathias against. 
Supporting the Buckley !lmendment were Fong and fhurmond. Voting against it were Bayh, Abourezk, Burdick, Scott and Mathias. 
Fong said in a statement before the subcommittee meeting that he would vote in the Senate to uphold the Supreme Court decision but would not try to keep the proposed constitutional amendments bottled up in committee. 
However, he said he would vote in the subcommittee against the states rights .amendments because he did not feel they had been fully explored at hearings, held earlier in the year. 
Fong noted his state was one of the first to provide for legal abortions and said he was in ac­cord with its position and that of the Supreme Court. 
Sen. Philip A. Hart, D-Mich., another member of the sub­committee, is hospitalized. No proxy votes were cast for him. 
The legislation Bayh introduced to offer alternatives to abortion included provisions for establishing a national network of life support centers offering medical , counseling and social services for young parents. 
He said it also would bar sex or 
marital discrimination by health 
insurers, provide an expanded 
federal role in child care, and 
increased funding for programs to 
help teenage mothers. · 
TURQUOISE 

Thursday, Septembe_r 18, 1975 the observer 
Japan study program reviewed 

William Boris said that, although 
by Bob Mader 

abs~rv~r ·InSI-ght: there were problems with tt~e
Campus Editor .. .. school, he learned much more 
Although charges have been made that the year of study in Japan is an academic wasteland, many participants in the program feel these statements are exaggerated, and that academics play only a small part in the total experience. 
Most of the students in the program last year felt it was extremely worthwhile. A few have hopes of returning to Japan for further study. 
Academically Weak 

Last spring, three Notre Dame students sent a letter to Observer editors directed to "All-you-future­year-in-Japan-students." The three said that Sophia University in Tokyo with which Notre Dame is af­filiated is "not. ..up to academic standards." 
The program is divided into trimesters, the last one being a short six-week session. The students wished to drop out of this last trimester and return to the United States. 
"It wasn't worth it academically," stated Patrick 

flaherty, one of the cosigners of the letter. "I wanted 
to get back and get a job. There was no profit in 
staying." 
However, they were informed by University of­

ficials that withdrawal from the program was 
t•quivalent to withdrawal from Notre Dame and they 
would subsequently have to apply for readmission. 
All three remained in the program until its conclusion 
at the end of May. 
"I knew the school was going to be a joke 
academically," Michael Dillon, one of last year's 
participants said. "I went, and it was, but it didn't 
bother me." 
Dillon termed the year in Japan "the best thing I've 
ever done." 
''The program is irrelevant to the experience," 
Dillon continued. "You get what you make out of it 
personally; you have to get out and meet people" 
Dr. Charles Parnell, director of the foreign studies 
program, explained that students who spend a year in 
Japan do not study at Sophia University itself. They 
study at the University's International Division 
which has students from all over the world, most of 
whomspeak English as a second language. 
Dillon elaborated, "The quality of the education is 
poor. but the University does serve a purpose since 
most of the students speak English as a second 
language. The school is great for these people. For 
example, a large number of them are Chinese, but 
have lived in Japan most of their lives since theire 
parents work there. They might speak Chinese, 
.Japanese, and English all broken. They know three 
languages but none of them really well." 
Fr. George Minamiki, professor of Japanese at 
Notre Dame, said the International Division was 
established at Sophia after World War II to serve the 
children of foreigners who came into the country. 

Minimiki said that Sophia University itself is one of the top three universities in Japan, and the foreign students would not be able to compete academically with the Japanese nationals. 
He said that the relationship between the In­ternational Division and Sophia University is roughly analogous to a seminar at the Center for Continuing Education and Notre Dame. 
However, Minimiki explained, the credits obtained at the International Division are transferrable to any university in the United States. 
John Colligan said the courses in Japanese history, politics, and beginning Japanese were "a joke." He also said some of the guest lecturers in the in­troductory sociology course spoke no English, and that the course described as comparative Japanese sociology was actually a course in social theory. 
Flaherty stated that the courses seemed to lack organization and demanded memorization. 
"Teacher attitude was hard to pinpoint," he related. "One teacher came right out and said something roughly equivalent to 'teaching this class is something I do on the side'." 
Complaints answered 
Parnell said that many of the complaints of the students had brought results. He said the beginning Japanese professor whom many of the students had termed "a basket case" is gone on a one-year leave of absence. 
Also, the administrator of the program, Fr. Joe de Vera -..J., has been informed by Parnell that Notre Dame students take 15 credit hours, not 18 as de Vera believed l;onsequently, t.he number of core courses 
has been reduced from five to four, allowing the 
students this year to take a free elective. 
RL·t, ··diug the professor who said he taught the course "on the side," Parnell noted that the ins in­structor might have been similar to an adjunct professor at Notre Dame, who, although he is an expert in his field, is not primarily a college professor. Parnell questioned whether the professor's statement really indicated adversity to teaching the course. 
"You have to admit we have some real 'jock' 
courses here," Parnell commented. "What are they 
~omparing the courses to? Also, tf they want just 
1ook learning, they could have st.:ved here." 
Outside education 
While the academic aspect of the year in Japan is the part of the program which has received the most complaints and the most attention, most of the students feel as Dillon does that "the program is irrelevant to the experien<:-e." 
Urban Studies 
Institute provides challenges 
by Christie A. Herlihy 
Starr Reporter 
Although the title, Institute of Urban Studies, seems an all en­compassing term, the program is stepped in a social perspective so typically Notre Dame. Dedicated to the "humanization of urban life", it is concerned with the problems of race and poverty which Director Thomas Broden asserts is "an area in which the University has had a traditional interest, especially under Father Hesburgh." 
Founded in 1969, the program now involves 75 majors. The emphasis is a Judeo-Christian philosophy as opposed to. technical land use focus, prompting the development of courses in close affiliation with the Moreau Seminary. Such courses are to provide future priests with a grasp of the realities of life, the urban problems which they will face in the field. "This social ministry focus attempts to explain how institutions operate and how those in the church can bring about change practically," explained 
Broden. 
To supplement the classroom 
learning experience, the institute 
provides two other opportunities: 
research through local community 
and national projects, and in­
ternships within South Bend. 
One of the research projects, the 
Urban Observatory Program, was 
drawn up in response to the need of 
city officials. In a national contest 
sponsored by HUD. the Notre 
Dame program ranked among the 

facilities in South Bend and for the efficient co-<~peration by both the University and the city in using the facilities. 
After a year of planning, another research project, the Multi­cultural Education Process, became a reality this September. This service provides information on local ethnic culture to teachers in South Bend schools with the hope that it will broaden the perspective of children's studies. 
Contributions made by Black, Chicano, Polish, Hungarian, and Jewish peoples are represented in a focus which is more local than national. Historical documents, films and taped interviews with community experts, who have lived through various adjustment experiences as a member of an ethnic minority, all have been collected into an educational package. Broden hopes it will 
•'open teachers' minds and broaden the spectrum of the community." 
The Multicultural Process has been well received in the schools, Broden said. "The approach is positive because it deals with a variety of ethnic groups on an equal cultural basis." 
Broden hopes that such an early exposure to ethnic culture might prevent the heated racial tension which plagues Boston. "But once the situation gets to the point of Boston where the hatred and mistrust between races has already solidified, it will take a long time to heal. The destiny of America is that the pluralism of its people be equally respected." 
Besides the various research 
toP ten for its excellent r~s,ea~~h c~roj~ts, .~~ ~ ..~~~~\t~ ,'~ ,~~~~· 
·(~ (·'< • _. ,-• -~ ~~ t r: ·1 • • •• t ,. t ~ ' .• ~ r ..." r ,. t. t r. , t 
Studies also sponsors an internship program under faculty super­vision. The program emphasizes a long term relationship with the South Bend community of five to ten hours per week for a semester. 
Positions are available in the city Department of Human Resources, Public Safety, the United Religious Community, the United Way, and the Model Cities Program. Law students may serve as interns under practicing lawyers while third year law students may personally appear in court and carry out full-fledged legal responsibilities. 
South Bend has welcomed Notre Dame's attempt to get involved in the community, Broden said. "I have personally found the ad­ministrators of agencies, both public and private, open to receiving student support." 
The only program difficulties that the institute has encountered has been when a director has not been assigned to help a student adjust to his new job. "We have tried to identify those situations," Broden said. "If the student is not fully involved, then the program is a waste of time. "We have tried to identify those situations 
The only program difficulties that the institute has encountered have been when a director has not been assigned to help a student adjust to his new job. "We have tried to identify those situation­s, "Broden said. "If the student is not fully involved, then the program is a waste of time. Many good agencies don't have the staff to effectively use students, but this is the exception rather than· the rule." 
~·.<.<.c.c,c.n:.c.c,c.c,: t·.:••G.:.;-:-..: • 

outside of class. 
Dillon termed the problems which most of the students en­countered in their studies as being "petty." 
Denise Wilt explained that the classroom work was framework around which to organize the experience, and that she profited most from living with a Japanese family. School, in her case, was secondary. 
"Japan is a great place," Flaherty said, "but none I think do there embrace. The Japanese people are really friendly." 
"I learned more in that one year than I've ever learned before in my life," Dillon stated. "I don't have to be spoon-fed. I went out and got it on my own. I read a lot." 
"What you say about the .program is very subjective," 
Dillon commented. "It's a very personal experience.'' 
The best way to learn about the culture, according to Colligan, is to join one of the numerous student clubs. Colligan joined the sym­phony orchestra which he said is the "best symphony orchestra in Japan outside of a music con­servatory." 
He noted that there are student clubs for · kendo, or Japanese fencing, traditional Japanese music, aikido and judo, guitar, painting, and the tea ceremony. One student was able to spend several weeks living in a Zen monastery. 
Recommendations 

A few of the students recom­
mended ways of improving the 
program. 
Colligan said he hopes the University will consider the program offered by Calliston College in California. The Calliston students spend the first trimester in intensive language study. The next trimester is an "internship" at a Japanese commune. 
He explained that a Japanese commune is not idyllic, but a place of intense work. One girl went to traditional folk music commune to study guitar and traditional dance. 
Another student studied ancient forms of religion, and a third went to a commune whose members have revived ancient Japanese spiritual practices. Some students went to farms in northern Japan, others to a Zen Temple. 
"This gives the student a much wider range of experience," Colligan said. "And they did the 
(continued on page 4) 

SMC SOCIAL COMMISSION PRESENTS 




PAPILLON 
STARRING 
DUSTIN

STEVE McQUEEN HOFFMAN 

FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 19 
and 

SATURDAY SEPTEMBER 20 
8 pm and 11 pm OlAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM ADMISSION s1.25 

IN CONCERT MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
SAT. SEPT. 20 8PM 
· 


ALL SEATS RESERVED $5 -$4 -$3 tickets on sale now at morris auditorium box office 11-5 suspended chord -elkhart&goshen record joint -bell plaza niles 

------~~-----------------~ --~----------------­
4 tne ooserver ....._.,, __......~ ••, •n.. 
r 
f LaFortune renovation completed 

(continued from page 1) 
Wilson Interested in Remodeling Huddle 
Wilson indicated that he was still interested in 
remodeling the Huddle if more money could be ob­
tained from the Board of Trustees. 
"It was a good idea and still is," said Wilson, "but with that much money you want to do the right thing." 
The LaFortune renovation committee was formed in the fall semester of 1972 by three ND students in­terested in improving the student center. This committee worked throughout the '72-'73 school year to form concrete plans for the renovation of the center, as well as a philosophy behind the plans, a~d their plans were presented to the Board of Trustees m the spring of 1973. 
The Board did approve the full set of plans. 
However, the cost of the project proved to be too high and, during the '73-'74 school year, the .Bo.ard agreed to provide the $250,000 fund for more hmited renovation. 
The first work done on the building came during the summer of 1974 when the student government and 
Japan program 


reviewed 

(continued from page 3) 
same amount of work (at Sophia) in the last trimester as we did in the whole year." 

Wilt stated that the ad­ministrator, de Vera, reminds her of "something out of the Spanish Inquisition," and that the Notre Dame administration should have more say in the selection of courses than de Vera. She also recommended that the program should be screened more ef­fectively. 
Parnell said, "Our year abroad 
students haven't been harmed 
academically." His statement is 
well-supported by Minimiki, who 
keeps in close touch with all his 
former students. 
"Three students have qualified for the Ministry of Education exam in the United States," Minimiki related. "One is now in Japan at Hokaido University and passed the Japanese exam for the masters degree in history. One went to Harvard Law School, another to the Stanford Law School. Six students have gotten Rotary Club scholarships to go back to Japan. They're going to the Sophia University graduate school and the International Christian Univer­sity." 
Dillon summed it up: "The trip is what you make it." 
Multl•-media ShOW 

to be presented 

"Notre Dame in Review," the multi-media show depicting the history of the University and the involvement of its people in area and national projects, has been revised and will be presented without charge for visitors to the campus on home football Satur­days· this fall. 
Sponsored by the Alumni Association, the shows in Washington Hall on September 27, October 4 and 25, and November 1 and 8 will begin at 10:55 a.m. with a medley of University songs by the Notre Dame Glee Club. Greater emphasis on community-related activities of students and faculty during the film portion of the program has replaced last year's focus on coeducation and minority

r 
students. Narrated by Mike Collins of 

publications offices were relocated. During the following school year much of the remaining work was completed such as the new stairs and the pain­ting last summer the lounge was completed. 
Pub Possible in LaFortune Basement 
Wilson indicated the possibility of a Pub in the basement of LaFortune if the legal drinking age in Indiana is lowered to 18. 
"If the drinking age is lowered and we can get the 
money we could probably make the basement and the 
whole first floor a pub," said Wilson. 
Wilson suggested-that beer could be sold in the basement and students could go to the first floor and sit in a lounge area. 
Reactions of student s and persons working in the area of the lounge to the changes in LaFortune were generally favorable. 
Brother John Benesh, director of student activities, whose office is just off the lounge, commented that he "liked the new arrangement very much." 
"It is attractive and comfortable," he noted. "and it seems to be the way people want it." He added that it seemed to be a gathering-place for off-campus students." 
Maureen Muldoon, Benesh's secretary, also liked the refurbished lounge area and added that "It seems that a lot more people use it." 
Students Like New LouRge 
The lounge is crowded with people during the lunch hour and many stated that they like the new at­mosphere. 
"It looks really nice,' one student commented. "I think I'll stop in more often." 
"It looks better and it's more comfortable to sit in here,'' added another student. He also said that he "definitely" thought that the addition of games, such as pinball machines, would be an impr'?vement. 
On the negative side, Brother Francis Gorch, manager of the LaFortune Student Center, said that he didn't think that any more people were using the lounge since the refurbishing. 
"alitch felt that "the renovation of the center should be an ongoing process." 
"Students change and the building should change," said Blitch. "We have the center pretty much open to future changes." 



Reflections on a 
(continued from page 1) 

would be the logical thing to do if one could do more good by using other alternative~Maybea more mature approach to the problem of social inequality would be to perform a service for the rich people; that is, intelligently and considerately present the dilemma, and provide and allow for their free response, rather than try to force an ideal upon people. It is a good idea for me to remember that development, in the long term, is a process that can happen only if it is accepted as a goal by society; and not an ideal by which they are threatened. Moreover, "stealing" may necessitate violence, and violence as a means to the just ends of social equality would be ethically questionable if each individual is an intrinsic value. Furthermore, Grif made a good point when he said that God, not man, made humans depen­dent upon one another for their existence; and when people freely choose to give up of themselves for another, it is an act out of love, 
not out of obligation, or guilt. 

It is with these thoughts in mind that I have decided to panhandle at Notre Dame for the last year. If I objectively state what a penny and dime could buy, smile warmly and sensitively at those who don't contribute, thank those who do, and above all, realize that I am dealing with people and not dollar signs, I think that there should not be too much of a sense of oblication or guilt created among the students. 
Sure there will be those will question who do I think I am -that is 
their right. However, I am not concerned. I have seen suffering 
and death, needless suffering and death in a world capable of 
supporting 30-40 billion people. And I can-'t just sit back and watch 
it happen. All I wish to do is what little I can ·do help alleviate this 
harsh reality affecting most of us by helping create a situation in 
which the rich can freely respond to the needs of the poor. I feel the 
need for my fellow countrymen and myself, as well as the rest of 
the people of the developed world to think in terms of conserving 
and sharing finite resources, if we as well as the rest of mankind 
are to continue to exist. And most of all, I would not panhandle if I 
did not think that the students would experience at least some of the 
Joy and Happiness in Giving. If anything, this trip has definitely 
made me more sure of myself and of who I am. 
As you can see, much of the contents of this letter is based on 
personal reflections, and for that reason, I have debated on 
whether to send it. But it's not everday that someone gives me a 
free trip around the world, thus I feel the least I owe you is some 
explanation on how it affected me. Coming to Bangladesh with an 
open mind has made me more sensitive to the various ways of 
responding to the needs of the poor. I've been fortunate enough to 
meet people there who are literally saints for they sacrifice 
themselve~ by living in all the horrors, problems, and indignities of 
the poor without ever asking for any money or recognition. I have 
learned something from the poor as well, namely -man does not need cars, bikes, boats, airplanes, washers, driers, refrigerators, freezers, stoves, ovens, television, radios, stereos, air conditioners fans, . dehumidifiers, phones, lamps, furniture, tapestry, lavish utensils, cabinets, running water, toilet facilities, and an array of countless other luxuries IN THE HOME to exist. 
It is through the witnessing of these that I have decided to 
pursue an idea that has been in 

LOUIES PIZZA 
NICE PEOPLE&GOOD FOOD ····GOOD TIMES 
AT LOUIES-NO AVE! 
WNDU radio and television stations; the show is directed by Tim Truesdell, assistant alumni director. Refreshments and in­formational brochures on the University will be available for showing to community groups, Alumni Clubs and other organizations across the nation at the completion of its campus 
showing. 




Bangladesh trip 
time now, namely, to create and construct a home that would be 
designed to ecologically fulfill the basic human needs. It would be a 
small block shaped building enclosing one room with the following 
approximate dimensions 4 feet by 10 feet by 4 feet. Its contents 
would most likely be a sleeping bag or cot, a heating apparatus, a 
clock, and several articles of clothing and eating utensils. Nearby 
would be constructed a small public building providing a supply of 
water and a toilet facility, with cess pool for recycling. And after 
seeing how most of mankind exists, well, I will be living in a castle. 
If I might add, the solution to mankind's problem of inequality is 
dependent not only upon whether mankind consumes resources to 
fulfill human wants or needs, but also upon the environmental 
impact that results from technologies that are used to fulfill human 
needs, as you well know. It is with this consideration that I intend 
in the not too distant future, if economically possible, to operate a 
small farm that would employ a technological system that would 
maximize outputs and positive environmental impact, with 
minimal inputs and negative environmental impact, over time, 
through an optimal utilization of resources. To implement this idea 
would require an extensive understanding of agriculture, ecology, 
and engineering, as well as of other natural and social sciences. 
But after seeing this world, thanks to you, I have only one desire -to 
LEARN how to live in it like a "world citizen". And maybe 
someday, I will be able to use this knowledge, if acquired, where 
the comparative advantage for food production exists in the 
developing world. 

Perhaps, I'm finally asking the question -what should "I" do? 
instead of what should "we" do? And I'm realizing that the answer 
will make only a dent, and I can accept it. I'm also aware that 
these plans are merely dreams, but it was just a year ago that I got 
this dumb idea of holding a plastic milk container. 
So again Father, thank you very much for the opportunity of a 
lifetime; the lessons I have learned from it have affected me im­
measurably. Enclosed is a small token of my appreciation. It's a 
jute wheel made by poor women in Bangladesh; and it signifies the 
role trade can play in the development of social equality in a finite 
biosphere. And Father, thank you very much for being you; I hate 
to think what this world would be .like without you in it.. 
Your Friend Always, 

al. 
An in-depth look at the World Hunger Coalition's long-term plans for this year will appear in tomorrow's issue of The Observer. 
ROD STEWART & FACES 
with the J. Geils Band 
IN CONCERT SATURDAY OCTOBER 4th at 7:30pm 
at ACC 
TICKET PRICES $7.50 & $6.50 
Tickets Now on Sale 

at ACC & STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE 
• By Student Union & 

Pacific Presentations 
r 
r 
L_ 

Thursday, September 18, 1975 
the observer 
Electric vehicles fail safety tests 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Con­"Neither provides anything hour. Sebring, Fla., said: powered subcompact cars, in sumers Union said Wednesday it close to adequate crash protection, A spokesman for Elcar, which is "To say the vehicle is unsafe on areas where electricity is has rated the two electric cars and neither handles or accelerates manufactured in Elkhart, Ind., the road is contrary to what we relatively expensive, and that most widely sold in the United well enough to give us confidence denied the charges. He said the car believe, what our customers while the electric cars themselves States as "not acceptable" that they are capable of getting out has been used for three years in believe and even what the do not pollute the air, the electrical 
because of alleged safety of a tight spot," Consumers Union Europe without problems. He also Department of Transportation power plants that provide the problems. said. said there have been im­believes." power for the111 do. The Elcar 2,000 and the Citi-Car provements in the car's design Consumers Union said that the
An article in the October issue of "These two electric cars are
SV-48 are so unsafe that "it would since Consumer Union tested it. 
top speed for both cars submitted
Consumer Reports said that the clearly unsuitable for any normalbe foolhardy to drive either car on to tests was about 30 miles per hour 
Elcar's front suspension collapsed A spokesman for Citicar -transportation function," Con­any public road," the nonprofit and that they can go nonstop only 
during braking tests at 30 miles an Vanguard, which is built in sumers Union concluded.
testing organization said. 
about 20 miles before their bat­teries had to be recharged under Noting that electric cars haveTo permit euthanasia favorable conditions. It said cold been temporarily exempted from 
weather, hill climbing and night some federal safety standards for driving depleted the battery power conventional cars, such as life even faster and recharging took saving protection in a 3o-mile-per­
more than eight hours. hour barrier crash, a 30-mile-per­hour rollover and a 2o-mile-per­



Father seeks court order 
The cars accelerated slowly and 
MORRISTOWN, N.J. <AP) -A the respirator. The order also designate him as her guardian. had trouble climbing hills, the hour crash from the side, Con­legal battle that could spell life or seeks to restrain Collester from The suit is the first in the nation, magazine said. sumers Union said that "we 
believe any such crash woulddeath for a 21-year~ld woman who prosecuting Quinlan as a criminal however, to seek court Consumers Union said the imperil the lives of persons insidehas been in a coma unfolds in a should the suit be successful. authorization in advance for 
electric cars' are no cheaper to run these tiny, fragile, plastic-bodiedcourtroom here Monday. The order is returnable on "discontinuance of all ex­than the most economical gasoline-vehicles."
Joseph T. Quinlan is seeking Monday before Judge Muir. traordinary means sustaining vital court permission to disconnect a The so-year~ld Quinlan has said processes." respirator that has been attached his wife and their two other Armstrong said the suit does not to his adopted daughter, Karen children all have concluded that seek approval of mercy killing ­
Thousands participate in 
Ann Quinlan, since she went into a keeping Karen on a respirator taking an action to stop life in a coma eight months ago. denies her a natural and dignified person who survives with normal Superior Court Judge Robert death. medical care. The suit asserted 

Activities Night success
Muir Jr. signed a show cause order Quinlan said his decision was a that extraordinary measures· are here Wednesday after it was difficult one, "but after lots of being used on a patient who has no 
by Fred Herbst Mary Iden, who served'' witubrought to his chambers by Paul prayers I became convinced this is chance of recovery and would have Mark Grove as co-chairpersons of
W. Armstrong, attorney for the what God's will was, that Karen died otherwise. Staff Reporter the Freshman Orientation Com­
Quinlan family. was being called by Him." The prosecutor entered the case mittee, also was pleased with
The order asks Morris County Armstrong said doctors have because if Karen is declared alive An estimated 3000 students prosecutor Donald G. Collester Jr., determined the young woman has under the previously accepted turned out to participate in last Activities Night. 
"I was extremely pleased withSt. Clare's Hospital, Karen's two irreparable brain damage and no legal definition of continued heart Tuesday's Activities Night. 
Harry Bainbridge, who served orientation," said lden. "The
physicians and her temporary hope of recovery. function, shutting off the machine weather was our only realguardian to explain why Quinlan Quinlan's suit asks the court to could be called homicide. with Jodie Korth as co­
chairpersons for the event, termed problem. Everything fell into place should not be allowed to disconnect declare Karen incomptetent and to it a "really fantastic night." amazingly well." 
Eighty organizations were lden hopes that next year, the represented at Activities Night in .•'reshman Orientation Committee the LaFortune Student Center. will be headed by two co­

Hughes disregards injunction 
"All the clubs set up booths and chairpersons again, one a senior ran them really well," said and the other a junior. NEW YORK (AP) -Billionaire order giVIng Hughes until Wed­possible · to go into court in Bainbridge. "This will give a continuity to the 
recluse Howard Hughes did not nesday to prove he is still alive, Delaware, where Summa Corp. Despite the limited space committee and will assure an 
reserved decision on the Davis and Hughes Air Corp. are in­available for Activities Night, experienced chairperson everyshow up in court Wednesday to corporated, and request the ap­Bainbridge was pleased with the year," said lden. 
prove he is still alive. motion. 
pointment of an administrator who evening. "I had a really good "Everyone did a tremendous
But a lawyer for Hughes' A spokesman for Summa Corp. 

job," commented lden. "I feel
Summa Corp. did, and he said the in Los Angeles has said the in­·would become the defendant in a crew," he said. "I was really 
damages suit. satisfied." orientation ~!is very successful:"
attempt by two shareholders in the dustrialist is alive, but Davis did 
,...~........~~..
·~···~·-·~~
Air Liquidation Co. to have Hughes not deal with the Question.declared legally dead smacked of 
"Any extended comment on theblackmail. 

claptrap submitted in support of"Inference is plain that the the application to declare Hughes

plaintiffs believe if the make With presentation of Student 10 Card
dead would dignify it out of z
enough of a nuisance of them­reason," Davis declared. STUDENT this coupon entitles bearer to 
selves, someone will pay them to 0 
He said the court lacks a..
go away," lawyer Chester Davis jurisdiction and a ruling for the :::::»
said in moving for dismissal of the DISCOUNT 
plaintiffs "would turn the judicial

suit. 0 
process into a theater of the ab­





2Qo/o
State Supreme Court Justice u 
Pier 11mpo1•ts
surd."
Bernard Nadel, who signed an V) The suit waR brought by Victor ­
:I:
and Ellen Kurtz of Manhattan, who 
t­
off

Eleven die from seek dan1ages from Air 
A. Limit 1 coupon per customer
Liquidation, formerly known as
suspected virus Air West,Inc., an airline that was .... Offer good until September 30. 1975 taken over by Hughes in 1969. u 

INDIANAPOLIS (AP)-Eleven Their lawyer said· the objective persons are suspected to have died in seeking a court declaration that from viral encephalitis in Indiana Hughes is dead is to make it so far this year, but presence of the disease cannot be confirmed until after tests are completed, the State Board of Health said Wednesday. 

CLUBS AND ORGANI.iATIONS 
A spokesman for the board said it takes about two and a half weeks to analyze tissue from a deceased ~rson. 
The state agency has the only 
Wanting to be considered in this year's
laboratory in the state with the antigen required to perform the tests. 
The board reported 281 suspected cases of encephalitis, also known as sleeping sickness, 

Student Government Budget must pick up a budget
are under investigation. 
The disease has been confirmed in 35 cases in 16 counties, the board said. 
"Community-wide spraying to control mosquitoes at this time of 

form in the Government Offices. 
year is not recommended as the best means of eliminating the mosquitoes suspected of causing St. Louis-ence~itis,'Dr. William 
T. Paynter, state health com­
missioner said. "Individuals may find it helpful 

The form must be completed and returned by
to use any of a number of com­mercial insecticides to spray the shrubbery in the immediate vicinity of homes and living quarters," he said. 
Purdue University entomologist 

Thurs. Sept. 25 
Darryl Sanders recommended 
such insecticides as Sevin, Baygon 
and others that have a 7-10 day L::;;;;::.:=:r::==============:::::::l=:::;:::=:::::=::;;;:::::;t:;========;;;:;;;;:;:::::;;;:;:::::::::;:::::===;;c;===;;;:;;;;:;:::lQJJ
residual effect. ­

Mighty 881! One of the finest Stereo FM/ AM Receivers you can buy ... and with Playback's price ... it's a steal! 
Triple tone con­



$11299 
trols, advanced ~ circuitry, drives 3 speakers. 
ROCKWELL 63R. 3D­Function 8-Digil Sci­

.,...1<0#/J 
entific With Memory 

'I, 1'!., ~. •• f : :.:­
and Rechargeable Batteries. 
$89 


CHARGE IT! 
CARON F-5. 20­
Function 8-Digit
8-Digil Scientific With 2 
Electronic
BankAmericard • Master Charge • American Express Memories And 
Slide Rule 
Conversion 
$JA9 $79 
With
Playback-Arranged Financing Capability. :""K Memory 


PLAYBACK WARRANTY FullS-Year Warranty On High Fidelity Speaker Systems! Full3-Year Warranty On Hi-Fi Systems Plus Additional Limited Warranty! 30-Day Hi-Fi Component Exchange Policy! One-Year Speaker System Exchange Policy! 

TAPE LOVERS SALE! 
AC/DC Portable Cassette 
Records and plays back in great fidelity. Built-in condenser mike, auto shut-oH. 3-diqit tape counter. 
C-60 Cassette 1200
THE 
3-Pack 1243 Open Reel Playback-Priced! ~ Playback-Priced! 349

MUSIC 
C-90 Cassette 1800' 3-Pack Open ReelTAPE Playback-Priced! 493 Playback-Priced! 499 
by Capitol 45-~in. 8-Tr. 2500 Cartndge 11273 Open Reel 
One of the three best Playback-Priced! ~ Playback-Priced! 1099 tapes on the market-100-Min. 8-Tr. 3600' and the le~st exp_ensive Cartridge Open Reel
493
of the lot. Try 1! and Playback-Priced! Playback-Priced! 1299you'll be convinced! 
deck with Dolby noise reduction, separate Bias/EO tape 

$199 
selectors for maximum performance with cmy tape. Priced to really move! 
PIONEER RT-1020L 3-Molor 3-Head "Pro" Open Reel 
Tape Deck! 
$549 

One of thP ~est decks on the market ... at any pri-:.e! Four-channel playback capability! Accepts 10 \12" long-play reels! Switchable bias and equalization to match virtually any tape! Full logic pushbutton control. Sound· on-sound. Mike/line mixing. Auto shut-off. 
Thursday, September 18, 1975 
7 'I 
I I 
I l 
~ 
j 
l 
CHARGE IT! 
Playback-Arranged Financing Masler Charge • BankAmericard American Express 
COME TO PLAYBACK FOR THE FINEST NAMES IN AUDIO 
ALARON 
MARANTZ ALTEC 
MAXELL AR 
MEDALLION AUDIO MAGNETICS 
MESA AUDIO TECHNICA 
MIDLAND BASF 
MUSIC TAPE BEARCAT 
PHASE LINEAR BIC 
PIOIEER BIC VENTURI 
PROJECTIone BSR 
QUALITRON CANNON 
ROCKWELL CASIO 
ROYCE CERWIN-VEGA 
SANSUI CORVUS 
SHERWOOD CRAIG 
SHURE DOKORDER 
SKANDA DUAL 
SONY DYNACO 
STANTON EMPIRE 
SUPERSCOPE EPI 
TDK FIDELITONE 
TEAC HY-GAIN 
TECHNICS KINGSWAY 
TEXAS LITRONIX INSTRUMENTS 

. SALE ENDS SUNDAY , SEPT. 21st 
817 W. McKINLEY, MISHAWAKA (COLLEGE SQUARE) 
' 
MON.-FRI. 10 to 9 SAT. 10to6 SUN. 12to5 





Pla'-lbacJ<
PHONE 256-1514 FIRST COME1, FIRST SERVE • QUANTITIES LIMITED the elec~ronic playground 
© 1975 Playback, Inc. 

----------------·--· -­
I \ J I I ' , ~, ' 
-··-----­

seriausly, falks 
The Mark I Cat Futch

~~~~ver 
Founded Novnnber 3, 1966 

art buchwald 
WASHINGTON--The skipper of the submarine Finback was
Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief 
Tom Modglin Business Manager 

reprimanded last week for letting a topless go-go dancer named Cat 
Tom Whelan Advertising Manager 

Futch perform on the deck of his sub as it set sail from Port Canaveral for 
EDrrOIUAL BOARD 

a three-month stint in the Atlantic. 
AI Rutherford, Managing Editor; Jim Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor; 
Cmdr. Connelly D. Stevenson defended his action on the grounds he was 
Ken Girouard, News Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; 
trying to help the morale of his men who had worked 85 hours a week to 
Ken Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; Tom O'Neil, Features Editor; 
get their ship ready for the tour. 
Chris Smith, Photo Editor 

I have it on highest authority that after its hasty decision the Navy is Editori~ls: 181..UI News: 1::;81~·1~7.:.;:15:...,_......___..=B.::;u•;;;in;,;e.;:".;.;'1::8.::;1·.::;14.;:7..;.1...---------jl reconsidering the whole incident and is now studying the possibliity of 
assigning one go-go dancer to each submarine as part of a new weaponsThursday, September 18, 1975 system. 
A meeting was held in the Pentagon last week. 
"Gentlemen, this morning we will discuss the possibility of installing a 
gogo dancer on each one of our killer submarines." 
A chief petty officer brought out a series of charts. 
The admiral giving the briefing took his pointer. "This is the Mark I Cat 


Lest We Forget 

The Committee on Undergraduate Life Is a project Initiated by students, largely staffed by students, concerned with student life and of critical Importance to students. It is too Important for students or Student Government to let Its Report be forgotten. But so far little has been done to follow through on it. 
Last October, then-SBP Pat Mclaughlin and a group of student leaders made a carefully-prepared presentation to the Board of Trustees which won ap­proval for a committee to study the priorities of un­dergraduate life. Subcommittees of COUL studied academics, student affairs, resldentlallty, coeducation and finances. 
Two of those committees--academics and student affairs--submitted only preliminary findings. The Report, presented to the Board's student affairs committee last May, concluded that much im­plementation and study still remains to be done and that progress reports should be made at the Board's meetings this year. 
The Report is important for students In two major respects. First, it Includes many excellent proposals on undergraduate life ranging from streamlining registration to establishing coed dorms. 
More importantly, the Report gives the Ad­ministration and the Board visible proof that students are responsible members of the University--something that is too often overlooked. The COU L Report was primarily a product of the Mclaughlin government's able leadership, but we certainly do not want the Administration and Board to think that such student leadership has disappeared so soon. 
'-:Ill 
• h
a c 0 am m1t

B k T Ad S 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii t any pras....a
ii 
~ 
It was an easy line to sell. Bewailing the "anonymous monstrosity" of 
executive government and "reckless" Congressional spending, President 
Ford tol a Dallas audience last Saturday that he was ready to put a lid on 
bureaucracy. 
The National Federation of Republican Women ate it up. But then, it's 
an old GOP family recipe that's proven itself before, and Mr. Ford took 
care to spread it thick. If the speech seemed an attempt to out-Reagan 
Reagan, it was still packed with familiar Ford fare: Bicentennial Apple 
Pie, Women's Rights Garnishes a Ia Betty, and plenty of economic bullets 
for biting. 
But not much else. Condemning "social legislation and federal bureaucracy"--as though they were identical -the President offered little more than obstruction as a legislative program. Still, that seemed enough for the Republican women. 
Apparently nostalgic for the 18th century, Mr. Ford is promising to veto 
his way back to Adam Smith. He's not bluffing. But in attempting to halt 
or reverse the pattern of social legislation achieved over the last two 
decades, he is making it unclear which hundred years he's celebrating. 
The President seems to be working on three assumptions: that progressive legislation necessarily leads tQ bureaucracy, that nobody wants either, and that we'll be better individuals without them. 
"The endless agencies and bureaus , " he moaned Saturda , "would 
statement is typical of the liberal 
philosophy subscribed to by Fr.
P. 0. Box Q 
Toohey and a horde of other priests 
and administrators on this cam­
pus, including our beloved 
president, a philosophy saying, 
"At all times slant the views of

Toohey 
conservatives, so as to make them 
appear unattractive." Surely Fr. 
Toohey cannot be saying that he 
truly believes that revenge is the 
Dear Editor: average person's reason for 
I would just like to comment on wanting capital punishment. 
two articles in last Tuesday's People such as myself, who 
Observer which caught my eye. favor capital punishment, favor 
The first, which I found to be ex­the killing of convicted murderers 
cellent, was written by Joe Cor­only as a means of preventing 
pora. Joe's article, calling for an future murders. It is a proven fact 
end to the slaughter of the unborn, that dead men not only do not tell 
was so good in fact, that the benefit any tales, but that they also do not 
it did your paper nearly out­tak~ any more innocent lives. It is 
weighted the discredit done bythe also a fact, that since the 
second article, that written by Fr. Supreme Court!~ecision outlawing
Bill Toohey. the death penalty, the number of 
In Fr. Toohey's article he states innocent prople killed by two and 
that people who favor capital three time murderers, has greatly 
punishment do so out of revenge, outweighed the number of con­
wanting "an eye for an eye and a victed murderers killed by the 
tooth for a tooth". Such a people. 


Corrected 

Futch model which has just been tested at sea and given high marks by our research and development people." 
The Board meets again early In October and the first "What exactly is its mission?" another admiral asked as he con­priority Is to be ready with a follow-through. Some centrated on the chart. work on Implementing the proposals has been done, "The Mark I Cat Futch will be placed in one of the missile containers notably the restructuring of the student affairs office, forward of the controlling tower. When an enemy ship is spotted, the 
and the Board must be Informed of what has been done U.S. sub will immediately surface and the skipper will push this button here which will raise the go-go dancer to the deck. When the Mark I Cat and what still needs to be done. Student concerns must Futch is in position, the skipper will activate a rock-and-roll record andbe kept before the Board. 
the go-go dancer will automatically start to gyrate."
To meet this priority, the remaining members of To what purpose?" an assistant secretary of the Navy wanted to know. 
COUL must be gathered together to prepare an update The admiral flipped the chart and showed a close-up of Cat Futch"The on their report for the October Trustees meeting. 
dance should mesmerize the crew of the enemy ship and, while theySeveral members have suggested this, but so far watch with mouths agape, the skipper will zero in with his torpedoes and nothing has been done. The meeting Is less than a let them fly. After the ship is sunk, the go-go dancer will be returned tomomh away. 
her pad and lowered back into a defused position until the next general 
The second priority, after the Board meets, is a long­
quarters." 
range follow-up. Some COUL members wish to see the "It's devilishly clever," a rear admiral said. "The Russians have 
Committee revived and filled out with new members to 
nothing like it." meet this priority as well SBP Ed Byrne has suggested The admiral flipped the chart. "The importance of the Mark I Cat • that the long-range work be given to the Student Life Futch is that it can be used in peacetime as well as war. As you know, Council. Yet this solution is questionable, since the many foreign countries have been reluctant to let us sail into their ports. membership of a reduced SLC has yet to be decided. But just think of the reception a U.S. naval vessel would get if there were 
Certainly it will be Student Government's job to work a topless go-go dancer twisting from port to starboard as we steamed in directly with the Administration to Implement COUL's and out of a harbor?" proposals. "What a great way to show the Flag!" an admiral exclaimed. Student Government has a special r responsibility to 
"All right," the assistant secretary of the Navy said, "It's a viable weapon, but what will it cost?"
see that COUL is not forgotten. Yet so far it has done "The Mark I Cat Futch can be leased for $50 a day."
nothing to meet the first priQrlty--a presentation to the 
"That's not bad."

Board--nor to meet the second priority--long range "And the only other cost will be $5 million to refit each submarine."
study and implementation. True, the school year has "A steal," a rear admiral said.
only recently begun, but the Board meets within ~ "Have we allowed for inflation?"
month and there is still much to be done. 
"Of course. And we've also budgeted for overruns."
Student Government must not let the students down. 
"How do we justify the Cat Futch to Congress?" an admiral asked. The briefing officer retorted, "We're going to say it's our only way of keeping abreast of the Soviet Navy." 
lannshats!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!reduce human beings to ... numbers and statistics." He should know. the observer 
Back when he was a statistic in Congress, Mr. Ford spent years Night Editor: Val Zurblisdisregarding unemployment, conservation and anti-trust figures. Ap-Assistant Night Editor: Bob~=~~~~ly' the best way to "foster individual spirit" is to ignore aggregarte 
Layout Staff: Bob Piller, Larry Carcare, Bob Massa, Jim
Republican theorists and contributors, of course, have been long-time
foes of Government regulation. Yet the endless unveiling of political Stevens, Liz Donovan, AI hanky-panky among GOP sugar daddies has suggested that business is Rutherford, John Calcutt less concerned for the ideal of individualism than that of political clout. Day Editor: Mary Reher Bureaucracy not only stifles the Transcencant Soul, but occasionally the Copy Reader: Jack D' Aurora, Ambitious Wallet as well. 
Kathy Mills 
Nor is the Ford campaign itself ready to bend to bureaucratic Sports: Bill Brink, Ernie Torrlero, 
pressure. Riding on loopholes in the 1974 campaign finance reform law, Tom Kruczekthe Republican National Committee expects to spend more private funds Typists, Neil Viii, Kathy Hinks,than ever next year, while their federally-financed candidate continues Terri Harlan, Laura Dodgenominally to comply with the statute. The President appears to oppose Halnics:. Carolinafederal regulating both in theory and in practice. Roll over, Adam Smith. 
Controller of the Light Night:His big-money organization notwithstanding, Mr. Ford's hymn is still Dave Rustto the ordinary guy. An especially ordinary fellow himself, he can only Picture Screener: Chris Smithgain from the strategy. But even better, the "individualism "routine is Ad Layout: Tom Whelanthe ideal method of convincing voters that they never really wanted what he won't let them have. If public jobs, conservation and business regulation stifle individualism, then naturally we'll want no part of them. 
There are, of course, plentyof bloated programs the government can ill afford. Congress is still on its ten-year spending spree and Mr. Ford is right to keep a responsible lid on it. Certainly, no one likes deficits or bureaucracy. 
But if the President plans to wrap a business free-for-all in the sheep's clothing of "indivudual spirit," he is straying dangerously from the public interest. If we are to be convinced this is all for our own good, we 
All letters to the editor should be sent to The Observer, Editorial Editor, Post Offfice Box Q or brought to the office of The Observer located on the top floor of the LAFortune Student Center. 

All letters are subject to editing for length and taste, and 
should at least remember we don't like it. should be concise as possible.  
As long as the American courts demand a measure of control of the are allowing convicted murderers In Loco rabble from above. The main­back on the streets because tenance of peace in the family and "highly educated" psychiatrists the desirability of personal growth Parentisclaim that they are "once again are the reasons cited for discipline. capable of functioning within But is this all there is to "in loco society," and as long as these Dear Editor: parentis"? At N.D. yes, but in "reformed individuals are taking The freshmen have been concept, no ! the lives of thousands of oriented, classes have started, and Sorry is the family and pitiful Americans annually, then I, along the first grid battle is behind us, are the parents in a situation with Governor Wallace (whose but I'm sure you know that no N.D. where no compassion exists. 90 name Father Toohey did his best to school year can really begin percent of what our parents have besmirch) and millions of Amer without renewed discussion of "in done for us is found in their un­-icans will continue to favor loco parentis." Despite all Burt­derstanding, love, and sympathy ­capital punishment. For what Fr. chaellian eloquence to the con­to the point where the hard-handed foohey failed to realize, is that in trary, "in loco parentis" has thus 10 percent is near forgotten. Often some circumstances you cannot far been a one-way street running their love-born forgiveness was a afford to give people a second contrary to what the students and more effective tool than the back of chance. their parents have been told. a hand might hl've been. Whether or not the idea of "in Will Mr. Roemer, as a Take Governor Wallace's case loco parentis" in its pure form is family man, see the shame in for instance. In the past four years, desirable here is not the question. N.D.'s two-faced artificial com­Arthur Bremer's aim may have If we are to live with it, if in face munity and act accordingly? In a improved quite a bit. we assume it is right (after all, we short while the freshmen will be are the "maturing, not the sophomores, the football season Brian M. Clancy matured") then are we not en­will be forgotten, but here, right titHed to more than we have thus now, Mr.Roemerhas a chance to far received? change things for a long time to Yes, "in loco parentis" does come. Thomas Simunek  


rnursa.y, september 11, 1975 
the observer 
Fr. Burtchaell makes '75-'76 appointments 
ward B. Wiliams.· ·Earth Scien­
Fr. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., Center; pr. Donald P. Kommers, Physical Education; James B. Studies: Alan Dowty, Gilbert D. University provost, made 26 ad­directors of Center for Civil Rights Stewart, director of Black Studies Loescher and Janet K. Schmidt. ces: Robert J. Shedlock (fall ministrative appointments and and director of Western European Program, and Dr. Charles K. History: Nathan 0. Hatch and semester). 
New officers in the Department
assigned 93 new faculty members Studies Program; Dr. Kenneth R. Wilber, chairman of Department Lester G) Lindley I Eco_nomics : 
are

at the opening of the 1975-76 Lauer, acting chairman of of Economics. Lawrence C. Marshand Larry ·L. of Nava! Science LCdr. 
Gregory. Bajuk, Maj. David P.
academic year. An additional 33 Department of Civil Engineering; College of Arts and 1 Letters Thomas. Dr. David T. Link, dean of Law Faculty appointments include 109 Garner, Lt. Robert E. Nelson and
faculty members returned to Philosophy: Janet A. Kourany, 
teaching duties after leaves. School; Dr. Sheridan McCabe, in the Department of Theology: John F. Post and Larry L. Cap; t. King W. Pfeiffer. 
Academic-administrative ap-acting chairman of Department of Peter J. Brady to the Purdue Thomas. General Program: ' Aerospace officers are CApt. pointments include Dr. David L. Graduate Studies in Education and Program, Brother Charles Burke, Stephen C. McCluskey. George K. Finan, II, Col. Norman Appel, chairman of the Depart­·continuesas director of Counseling F.S.C. and Rev. Vincent Dwyer, ..Sociology and Anthropology: E. Muller and Capt. Marvin L. ment of Marketing; Rev. William Center; Rev. Leon J. Mertensotto, O.SC.S.O. to the Center for Hun­Jaime S..Rivera. History and STockdale4. Sister Margaret man Development, Rev. John 
Suerth, O.S.B., will serve in the
A. Botzum, C.S.C., acting chair­C.S.C., acting chairman of l Medieval. Institue: Jeffrey B. 
man of Department of Department of Theology for the Gallen' S.J.' to , the Murphy Russell. Psychology: David Freshman Year of Studies fall semester; Dr. Walter C. ,Liturgical Center, · Rev John C. Program and Gary H. Adams will
Psychology; Dr. George A. Wehlage. Black Studies: James serve in the engineering library.
Brinkley, acting director of the Miller, chairman of Departm~nt of Gerber, C.S.C., Rev. Edward J. B. Stewart. Institute for International Studies Physics; Col. Norman E. Muller, Kilmartin, S.JJ., Rev. Terrence Law School appointments Ht>turning faculty
chairman of Department Lally, C.S.C., Rev. Robwert S.
and chairman of the Committee on include Edward F. Barrett,
of. Aerospace Studies, and Dr. Pelton, C.S.C., Charles Primus and
International Relations; Dr. Isabel Kathleen E. Cekanski, John College of Arts and Letters Charles, acting dean of the College John A. Oesterle, acting chairman Rev. Ronald T. Schmidt for the Connaughton, Robert L. Mennen, faculty returning from leaves are 
fall semesi ~r.
of Arts and Letters; Rev. Vincent of Department of Philosophy for Ann Hart Wernz and David L. Elisabeth S. and Francis P. 
the fall semester. In the department of Modern and
Sawyer, O.C.S.O., director of Evans and William A. West Fiorenza, Theology: Wa1te11 H. 
Also, Dr. Chasrles E. Parnell, Classical Languages appointments 
Center for Human Development; <London program) : College of Davis, Maben Herring, James E. Dr. Theodore J. Crovello, chair­director of Foreign Study are Jose Anadon, Chung-tung Business Administration ap­Robinson and James H. Walton,
Chang and Po-wen Kuo to the
man of Department of Biology, Programs; Capt. King W. Pfeiffer, pointments include Management: English: A. Robert Caponigri,
chairman of Department of Taiwan Progranm; Andrea G.
and Dr. Witliam M. Fairley, Richard A. Cosier, Yasuhisa John A. Oestrerle and Kenneth M. assisstant dean of the College of Naval Science; Dr. Jeffrey B. Labinger, Thomas G. Marullo, Hosomatsu, Brother Leo V. Ryan, Sayre, Philosophy: David L. 
Science. Russell, director of Medieval Vera B. Profit and Ch'iu-kuei 
C.S.C. and Syed Shahabuddin. Dodge and Carl W. O'Neil Institute; Brother Leo V. Ryan, Wang to the Taiwan program. Accounting : David R. Campbell. ,Sociolog· and Anthropology;FurUwr appointments 
C.S.V., dean of College of Business Music : Dennis R. Bamber, Marketing: Robert A. Drevs and Alfons J. Beitsinger, Government Administration; Dr. C. .Joseph Walter R. Ginter, MarieS. Parnell
other appointments are: Dr. James R. Stock. and International Studies; D. Chris 
Edward A. Goerner, acting Sequin, chairman of Department of and Rev. George Wiskirchen, College of Engineering ap­Anderson, Psychology; i Edward chairman of Department of Management; Dr. Herbert E. Sim, C.S.C. English: Gene M. Bern­pointments in the Department of 1\. Fischer, American, Studies 
stein, Donald F. CAstro, Sonia G.
Government and International chairman of Department of Architecture, all assigned to the program; Thomas S. Fern, Art; Studies; Rev. John Gallen, S.J., Finance; Dennis J. Stark, Gernes and Sean V. Golden. Rome Program, are John A. Kenneth P. Jameson and James J. dire.ctor of Murphy Liturgical chairman of Department of Government and International Bertoiniere, Jr.; Peggy A.Craig F.. Rakowski, Economics; J. and JohnAbel Pinto. Aerospace Phillip Gleason, History andGrows to five teams and Mechanical Engineering: A. Roibert D. Nuner, Modern and Murty Kanury and Robert C. Classical Languages. James M. Nelson. Civil Engineering: Carl Lee returns tro the Department of 
P. Littrell, Donald F. Meinheit Graduate Studies in! Jo~ducation
NFL player strike expands 
(spring semester) and Richard L. White. Chemical Engineering: Faculty returning in the College Arvind Varma and Eduardo E. of Business Administration are
Hy BHUCE LOWITT to New York, where he was to 
Francisco still are undecided. Wolf. AdamS ~rnold, Jr., Jae H. Cho
AP Sports Writer 
go into immediate meetings 

With Wednesday's decisions, College of Science appointments cwd Thom.1s T. Murphy Finance;
with the NFL Management 

five of the weekend's 13 in the Department of Physics are Williaw ·. Heisler, Management,
The National Football League Council. Union officials did not games-New England-Houston, Ronald L. Erichsen, Ronald E. a,nd Nc· \in G. Rueschoff, Ac­players' strike grew to five make the trip with Usery, who Jets-Buffalo, Washington-New Malmin, Michele K. Rallis, Don S. counts~. y. College of Science teams Wednesday with the ad­had previously tried to resolve Orleans, Detroit-Green Bay and Rhines and Zdzislaw P. Sawa. returr ·ar: John J. Ko:..ak e:nd J. 
dition of the Detroit Lions and the growing dispute. 
Giants-Philadelphia-could be Chemistry Mario Gonzalez-!<erry ·r"m:T'KS Chemistrv·; Alan' the New York Giants, threat­In other developments, the wiped outsince none of the Gronow, James F. Johnson, An­T. ·Huckleberry·, MatheMatics,
<'ning to disrupt the start of a Cleveland Browns, New Or­striking teams play each other. thony M. Trozzolo and Jay A. and Morris Pollard, Mlcrobioll)gy.
sell son only four days away. leans Saints, Denver Broncos, 
Labinger. Biology: Linda­College'" Engineering returnees
And that raises a wave of
But the team owners an­Atlanta Falcons and Buffalo 
N.acgaret Hunt, Suk-hee Knag and are N1cho:Jas F.· Fiore,questions.
nounced their firm intention Bills joined four other teams­
Toni R. Kingsley. Radiation Metallurgy, a ~ Nai-Chien Huangthat "there will be games Dallas, Houston, Miami and If a striking team is sched­I aboratory: Gilbert Hwei-kwan and Stuart T. McComas,played in the NFL this week· Minnesota-in voting not to uled against a nonstriking one, ~long. Mathematics: Dennis Aerospace and Mechanic! 
end." stri-ke. will the game be forfeited by 
Hopkinson, Mark E. Nadel, Engineering. Francis X. 
The Lions and Giants joined The remaining 12 clubs in the the strikers? Or will the sched­
Stephe11 J. Rallis, Brian K. Sch­.. Beytagh returns to -the Law 
the New York Jets, Washington 26-team league have not yet of­ule be shuffled and another 
midt, Raymond Sepeta and Ed-School Faculty. 
• \!. ~ ':,di'II.B----.
originally held last April, but since McDermott; its representation is following SMC election schedule there were no candidates for the distributed as follows: LeMans, 5 for the 1975-76 school year: 
... 

COMPETITIVE PRICES! !
Nominations Campaigning Election 
Voting Place 

STUDENT ASSEMBLY Sept. 12-19 Sept. 20-23 Wed., Sept. 24 
<In Halls) ON ALL STEREO EQUIPMENT
(Regina and McCandless only) 
FOR YOUR CAR & HOME 
f<'RESHMEN ELECTIONS Oct. 6-10 Oct. 11-14 Wed., Oct. 15 
(LeMans) FM CONVERTERS, SCANNERS,
Class officers and Assembly reps. (2) CB RADIOS, CAR STEREOS, RECEIVERS, 
STUDENT BODY PRES, March 10-24 March 25-30 Wed., March 31 <LeMans) AMPS, TURNTABLES, SPEAKERS 
V
.P. STUDENT AFFAIRS 

V.P. 
ACADEMIC AFFAIRS INSTALLATION-SERVICE 


Hedskins and New England Pa­ficially committed themselves nonstriking team be brought triots in announcing their deci­on the matter. But according to in? sion to strike. Sunday, the first sources close to those remain­
And what happens if more
of 14 weekends of regular-sea­ing 12 clubs: teams join the strike and two 
son games, was growing dan­-Baltimore, Chicago, Phila­
striking teams are scheduled
gerously close if some of the delphia and San Diego are lean­
against each other? And what 
games were to be played. ing toward a strike, sanctions, if any, will be takenMeanwhile, sources said W.J. -Cincinnati, Green Bay and against striking teams?
Usery, head of the Federal Me­Pittsburgh are opposed to it, 
diation and Conciliation Serv­and, The management council said 
ice, left Washington late -Kansas City, Los Angeles, Wednesday it could not answer 
Wednesday afternoon and flew Oakland, St. Louis and San those questions yet. 




Nominations period extended 
The nominations period for the positions from Regina and 
reps; McCandless, 3; Regina, 3;St. Mary's Student Assembly McCandless, at that time, they Holy Cross, 3; and one each from 
representatives from McCandless were re-scheduled for this Augusta and Off-Campus.and Regina halls has been ex­semester. 
Meetings are held every other tended, announced Election Carrigan believes that the poor Thursday at 6:45p.m.Commissioner Kathy Carrigan. response from candidates for this Any questions regarding elec­
Candidates may submit their election is partially because many tions may be directed to the hall names until midnight today, by students are unfamiliar with the vice-presidents, or to Kathycalling 4721, and should pick up operations of Student Assembly. 
Carrigan, election commissioner,copies of campaign rules and "Student Assembly," explained phone number 4721, or Beth election procedures in room 415 Joan McDermott, student body 
Marren <Holy Cross) 4797; Ellen LeMans, she continued. president, "is a legislative body of Minter (LeMans), 5196; Terri A short introductory platform is St. Mary's College. It initiates Storino <McCandless), 4037; Mary
required of all candidates, and legislation for any change of Elliot <Regina North), 5283; or must be submitted to 415 LeMans college policies, and is responsible Valerie Homola <Regina South),by 8 a.m. Friday, Sept. 19. for the allocation of student 5142. These elections for 'Student government funds." Assembly representatives were The Assembly is chaired by Carrigan also released the 


TAPE RECORDERS &
SONY 

PLAYERS • COMPONENT UNITS • CAR STEREO TV'S • QUAD EQUIPMENT 

§)
TURNTABLES 

TEAC crown 



287-14·00 
3302 MISHAWAKA AVENUE 
r ... ' 
BANK AMERICARD

•• a lot '11 en <:4 -~ "' l;r) :1 ' MASTER CHARGE 
"' + .,. ..... """. • ........ ........ 
······--··-­

:; * ,A\ 1'-1..:;:::;;:..~ o.-·6-!: 

---~ 

--~ ---------------------, 
1 0 the observer Thursday, September 18, 1975 
Berns addresses meeting
'Pornography reduces human sexuality 
by Bill Barnes Staff Reporter 

Dr. Walter Berns, professor of Political . Economics at the University of Toronto, last night addressed the opening meeting of the conference on obscenity and C'~mmunity affairs. 
~peaking before a small crowd in th, Center for Continuing Ed, ~ation, Berns discussed "the first amendment and the for­mation of character in a republic." 
Berns attempted to define pornography and vulgarity that he felt should be censored, centering his objections around intent rather than content. 
"The manner in which material 

Joins library collection 
Alumnus donates rare coins 
A collection of American Colonial coins and a V .S. type set of choice 20th century uncirculated coins have been presented to the university of Notre Dame's Memorial Library by Robert H. Gore, Jr., of Ft. Lauderdale . Fla. 
\ 

A hotel executive and a 1931 graduate of the University, Gore said the gifts would become a permanent part of the Department of Rare Books and Special Collections. 
The Colonials range in date from 1652 to 1795 and most are in"fine" to "extremely fine" condition with several uncirculated. Included in the collection are coinages such as the Pine Tree, Oak Tree,. · St. Patrick, Carolina Elephant, French Colonial, Hibernia, Rosa Americana, Nova Constellatio, Fugio Washingtion ad other coinages of the American Colonies and states. Also included in the collection is a valuable Higley Cooper struck in 1737 and a Con­tinental Currency pattern coin struck in 1776 known as the Con­tinental Dollar, the first dollar size coin minted in the United States. 
Gore is the son of the late Gov. 
R.H. Gore, ·sr., newspaper and insurance executive, who con­tributed a collection of rare steins to Notre Dane's University Club in 1968. He is one of six sons who 
Soviet grain dea tenta.tively set 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Soviet Union tentatively has agreed to pay $16 a ton to U.S. ships carrying American grain to Russia, Secretary of Commerce Rogers Morton told President Ford Wednesday. Morton said the agreement is not final but the Russians had "given a handshake" on it Wedpesday. 
The tentative agreement colil.d remove a major stumbling block to a long-term grain agreement between the United States and the Soviet Union. 
The price is much higher than the current Russian payment rate of $9.5o(a ton and is a figure that apparently would be agreeable to George Meany, president of the AFL-CIO and the maritime unions. 



Hairstylists set demonstration 
Professional ha,irstylists from Windjammer of South Bend will present a demonstration and talk on hair care tonight at 6:30p.m. in the LeMans Hall Rectangle, in the basement of the hall. 
At the demonstration, the "3 
C's" of hair care --cut, care, and 
conditioning-will be discussed. 
The caring of damaged hair and 
the ten questions to ask before 
having one's hair cut will also be 
revealed. 
In addition, Windjammer stylists will cut the hair of six to eight SMC students previously chosen. 
'( 
..'· 

is treated," according to Berns, who cherish the traditional virtues determines the difference between of delicacy, chastity, fidelity and art and pornography. privacy are being laughed at in 
Great art deals with great what Berns said is becoming "a human questions, he stated. But moral-less society." when exploitation and lengthy In the past man has relied on the colorful descriptions appear, art is family to teach love and affection, transformed into pornography and Berns continued. He felt this is trash. Berns feels that such becoming more difficult with the exhibitions stray from the purpose vast amounts of pornographic of literature which is to reveal the material being circulated without truth. government penalties. Berns said 
Pornography, Berns said, this makes it more difficult to "reduces human sexuality down to teach morals. animal sexuality. Love needs Those arguing that their privacy." Such exploitations turn freedom of speech and the press sex into an impersonal act. would be infringed upon in por­
Berns remarked that many nography is censored should people are ridiculed for their ob­recognize the limits already placed jections to pornography. Those on these rights by copyright, 

attended the University and was a The Department of Rare Books member of the advisory council for and Special Collections is located the College of Business Ad­in the west wing of the library's ministration from ·1957 to 1964. lobby and is open from 8-5 p.m. 
Shown is the obserse of the 1776 ·Continental Dollar, part of a collection of rare Colonial coins given recently to the University of Notre Dame by Robert H. Gore, Jr., Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. The Notre Dame coin is pewter (brass and silver were also used) and shows the sun over a sundial with the inscription "fugio," a reference to the flight of time. The axiom, "Mind Your Business," also appears on the coin, as does "E.G. Fecit," denoting the initials of the engraver. The Continental Dollar and the other Colonial coins will become a part of the Library's Department of Rare Books and Special Collections. 
libel,and slander laws, Berns Nicgorski, associate professor, 
noted. General Program of Liberal Pornography, Berns stated, is Studies, provided commentaries to offensive to the vast majority of Berns' address. the public. He called for nation­wide standards for censoring Kommers expressed agreement pornography. with Berns' views, saying, "Every 
Donald Kommers, director of the previous society has censored Center for Civil Rights. and Walter sex." 
Committee sets March date for mock convention 
by Brian Clancy Staff Reporter 
The National Mock Convention Committee in conjunction with the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Bicen­tennial Commission announced yesterday that the mock con­vention will run from March 3-6 instead of February 18-21. Mark Frieden, official spokesman for the committee, said the change was made so the four-day convention could kick off the Bicentennial celebration scheduled to begin March 7. 
Although the convention is still in 
the planning stages, Frieden said 
that all major candidates have 
been asked to appear and that 
several have made tentative 
replies. In addition, several guest 
speakers have been requested to 
appear. Guest speakers at the 1972 
convention included Democratic 
chairman Larry O'Brien and 
Allard Lowenstein, former 
congressman from New York. 
Frieden also announced that 
University President Father 
Theodore Hesburgh is tentatively 
scheduled to give the welcoming remarks and Father Griffin. university chaplain, is expected to give the invocation. 

A new feature of the 1976 con­vention is the post-convention dance which will close out event. The dance is being planned and sponsored with the aid of the Student Union and the Senior Class. "We are very happy welcome Student Government into the convention planning com­mittee," stated Frieden. "Their resources can really aid us." 
Stressing the prominence of the convention, Frieden added, "This is the time•when Notre Dame and St. Mary's will be in the national spotlight, with Democrats paying particular attention . " Frieden urged all students to become in­volved because of the great number of positions yet to be filled. 
There will be an organizational meeting at 6:30 p.m. September 22, will be held in room 127 Nieuwland. 
A final announcement made by Frieden, was the appointment of Pat Buckley and Rick Littlefield to the planning committee and the Executive Committee. 

SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 
MEETING 1OAM 
SISPT. 20th LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
f: COME RAIN OR SHINE . TO TOWN &COUNTRY 
• I 
' "a'''"• I 
/~i !~6;;;~1 ;~:.~, 




b'fuJOW 

~-~ -==--~~iii@" 
FOR YOUR FAVORITE 





WINES-LIQUORS 
Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM 
LIQUOR -WINE 10% DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC I.D. BEER· BEST PRICE IN TOWN VOLUME DISCOUNT FREE DELIVERY 
FREE DELIVERY 
,' 
..

Thursday, September 18, 1975 tne ooserv~• I I 
ouse bill to close tax shelters 
wide-ranging tax revision bill. -In buying a team or group WASHINGTON <AP) A By voice vote the committee of assets, it must be specified roposed curb on some multi-accepted a franchise tax shel­how much of the amount paid illion-dollar tax shelters in-ter-curbing plan, recommended is allocated to player contracts. olved in buying and selling by chairman AI Ullman, D­In any event, the amount allo­fessional sports franchises Ore., after amending it in ways cated to these by the buyer as unanimously approved by which tax staff experts esti-could not exceed the amount of House Ways and Means Com-mated "could easily double"-the sales price allocated to 
Wednesday. to at least $146 million-the these by the seller. on some • related original plan's six-year total -It will be persumed by the 
, which the panel's $73-million revenue gain for the government that no more than tax staff experts said would federal government. 50 per cent of the amount paid close key tax shelters in this in-As accepted by the panel on can be allocated to player con­vestment area, were postponed a tentative basis, the tax shel­tracts. until later in the committee's ter~urbing proposal would gen­-For player contracts, there current round of drafting a erallv provide: will be a full ~overnmental re-
Beaten psychologically 
Success hurts Connors 
CINCINNATI AP-Success may "You have to understand his "Now if you're seen walking be upsetting 22-year-old tennis position, how he got to the top so around with a tennis racquet, star Jimmy Connors, according to quickly. A guy that young makes you're considered to be his coach Pancho Segura. that kind of money and suddenly he somebody," Segura said. "It used 
In a telephone interview from his doesn't want to work as hard as he to be that if you walked into a bus home in California, Segura ad­did to get there. Suddenly, he station with a racquet, people mitted, "Jimmy is being beaten says, 'Hell, I don't want to work thought there was something psychologically. He feels he has anymore."' wrong with you." more to Jose now than ever before. Segura said that Connors is still That happens to a guy when he gets learning and there are areas in 
Santa's reindeer
to the top very quickly." which his protege is still weak. 
Segura, in an interview with The "He has to draw those guys in Cincinnati Enquirer, said he and cut down the volley," Segura needed at zoo sympathizes with Connors, who said. "He's content to sit back and recently was upset in the finals of play the long game. 
CINCINNATI, Ohio AP-Wanted:the U.S. Open at Forest Hills. 
One pair of reindeer. Must be"Very few people have known Really, though, Jimmy's just avail~ble for the holiday season.
that kind of psychological losing to guys who are playing The Cincinnati Zoo is currentlypressure," Segura said. "How better tennis that particular day." 
in the trading market for a couplemany guys, at 22, have been that The 53-year-old Segura Tuesday of reindeer, according to zoogreat? confirmed his entry in the Grand spokesman Pepper Wil~on.
"Jimmy's losses are more than Masters Tennis Tournament here psychological because of his game. Sept. 26-28. Wilson said the zoo is willing to 
He has tl1e greatest game in the Segura sees the tennis boom, of part with an animal that the world. If Jimmy plays those guys which the Masters tourney is a facility already has in abundance-­five matches, he beats them every part, as part of the "natural such as a bear, jaguar, cougar, time. growth of the game. monkey, or aardvark. 
WANTED 

Need S tickets for Northwestern Game. Call Mike alter 6 p.m. 288­0088. 
Desperately need 2 Purdue flxs. Call 272-6086 after 6 p.m. 
Wanted: 2 GA Southern Cal tlxs. Call Mary, 6680. 
1 need 3 tlx for any home game. Call 7187 or 234-683-4. 
Need ride to Akron, Ohio or vicinity for Thurs. or Fri. Call Nancy, 5773. 
1will die unless I get 2 Mich. State tis. Please call me now at 287-0076. DESPERATE. 
Desperately need 2 GA fix's to So. Cal. game. Wit pay$$ Call Marc, 1789. 
Sleep-In night clerk. Part-time, Capitol Motel, 272-6262. 
Need 2 So. Cai. football tickets. Call Jennifer, 4261. 
Need 4 fix's for Purdue game. Call 289-9174. 
Need 1 GA ticket for MSU game. Call Greg, 1762. 
Need Purdue tlx's Will pay, call Scott, 1762. 
Need 2 Purdue tlx's. Call Mike, 8106. 
Need 2 Purdue package tlx. Call late, 1541. 
Need 2 tlx's to Purdue, call 7471. 
WANTED: Desperately need as many as so tlx's for So. Cal. (no lokel) Call Mary 4093. 
Wnated: Need lw.o GA tickets to MSU game Call Gary, 1802. 
Need 2 Southern Cal tlx, Call Bob, 3665. 
Need for returning roommate and wife, two GA MSU tlx. Will pay almost top dollar, 234-8952. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
Dt:S.PERATELY NEEDED: 2 GA tickets for Northwestern. Will Discuss Price. Call lisa, 8089. 
Need 2 Ga MSU tlx, and 1 GA Northwestern tlx. Call Bob, 1068. 
wanted: 2 GA tlx's for Nor­thwestern game. Call evenings, 233-3325. 
Need 7 Northwestern GA tickets! I Will pay top dollar, 288-5207. 
Need ride to Madison and back week-end of Sept. 19, Call 4672. 
Wanted: Part-time driver with some experience in maintenance of cars. Good pay, flexible hours. Call 74\7 or come to Student Govt. 
office. 
Wanted: 2 fix's to Northwestern and 2 tlx's for Purdue. Will take 3 riders to Purdue. Mrs. Hegner, 288-2754. 
Badly need 2 GA Northwestern tlx. Call Don 3374. 
Wanted: Need two Purdue tlx's. Call 6974. 
Need 2 GA Tlx for Northwestern. Call Pat, 1654. 
Need tickets: 4 USC, 1 Nor­thwestern, 1 or more Purdue. PLEASE, Call Patty, 6429. 
Badly need 2 GA tlx for Nor­thwestern and Mich St. Call Mard, 8651. 
Michigan State tlx needed. 2 or more GA. Will pay $$. Charlie, 8698. 
Need on N .U. and 2 MSU tlx. Call Mary 1285. 
Needed: 2 tickets to any home game. Call: 1038. 

Need S tickets for Northwestern game. Call Mike after 6 p.m. 288­0088. 
Ride needed to Kalamazoo, Sep­tember 19. Call Mary, 4343. 
~ANTED: In need of motel ac­comodations for 2 for Oct. 24 and 2S(SO. Call. weekend.) If you know of cancellations, call Joanle, 4984. 
Help: 2 MSU tlx's, 2 USC tlx's. John 1586. 
Need 2 Northwestern tlx's and 6 tlx's for any home game. Call 4421 or 6974. 
Need 4 GA tlx's for Northwestern. Call 6976. 
Need GA Navy Tlx's and GA Pitt tix's. Call 1652. 
Desperately need tickets to any home game. Don 375S. 
Need So. Cal tlx's (student or GAl and 2 GA tlx's for Northwestern, Call Charlie, 289-8948. 
WANTED:Need 2 GA tlx for Northwestern. CAl 7985. 
NANTED: 6 tickets to Chicago concert. Call 284-3226 week­days(Fran). 288-9890 after 5 
weekends. 
Need 1-4 Student or GA tlx's for any home game. Will pay good price. Helpll CAll Jane, 5135. 
Desperately need 2 GA USC tlx for wife and kid, call Chip, 1026. 
Need 1 ticket for MSU. Call Tim, 8251, Premium Price. 
Wanted: PURDUE tlx, Call Val, 6661. 
FOR SALE 

For sale: Stereo console (con­tempory Modell AM, FM radio. In good condition. $135.00 or best offer. Call 272-5645 after 3:00. 
capturing of all depreciation to these assets have an in the extent of any gain involved determinate useful life. at the time they or the sports "The effect of allocating c. enterprise are sold. greater amount of the purchas· 
Recapturing means that the price to player contracts is tr.. government takes back some of decrease the amount of taxabk the tax benefits it has given in income or increase the amoun the past. of tax losses attributable to thf 
The staff tax experts told the operation 9f the sports team committee that a practice during the early years," they presently boosting tax benefits said. resulting from· sports team op­They said a result can be a erations is "the allocation of a "tax loss in many cases evet large part of the amount paid where the operation of a sport<' or incurred for the acquisition team is generating a positive of a sports team to depreciable cash flow. Thus, the deprecia· player contracts. tion claimed by the owne! 
"Typically, a purchaser of a creates tax losses which can bf.'· sports team attempts to allo­used to shelter other incomf' cate as much as possible of the from taxation." aggregate purchase price of the On the other hand, they said. franchise to player contracts "the seller attempts to allocatP because the cost of a player most of the aggregate sales contract may be depreciated price to franchise rights. In this over the useful life of the play­way, a greater amount of an~ er," tax experts said. g~in is treated as capital gain 
"Amounts that are allocated and a Jesser amount is treated 
to other assets such as the as a gain attributable to depr 
franchise rights or to good will eciable assets subject to recap· 
cannot be depreciated since lure as ordinary income." 

7 Stylists Full Time Manicuri•t •. Full Service Salon 
Rd. 23 only ,,., mile Southeast of 
campus (across from Kentucky Fried Chicken and the Linebacker) FOR 
MEN 

For .sale: Hewlett-Packard 45 calculator with leather and travel safety cases. $250. Inquire 203 FIsher, ph 1945. 
For sale: Couches, etc. ,tree delivery to campus. Call Mrs. Cooper after 6 p.m. or all day, Sat & Sun 272-3004. 
For sale: Red shag carpet, 12'x 15' -$25.00. Brown upholstered chair, $20.00. Refrigerator, $35.00. doffee table, $20.00. Water bed frame and heater, $50.00. Call 234-2692. 
NOTICES 

Free:  darling  kittens  to  a  good  
home.  6  wks.  old.  Call  233-8579  
after 5 p.m.  

Accurate fast typing. Mrs. Donoho, 232-0746. 
Quick Loans. Morrissey Loan Fund. Up to $150. 30 day, 1percent Interest. Basement of LaFortune. M·F 11:15 · 12:15. 
"But you've got to have friends" Information write Gay Students to Notre Dame, P.O.Box 206, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Ride Greyhound to Chicago every Fri, 4:45, Main Circle, Call Tom 8338. 
N D-SMC Council tor the Retarded . Don't forget Farm Trip Saturday, 9 a.m.-3 p.m. Kathleen 288-4315, Tom, 287-6673. 
FOR RENT 

4 Bedroom; Kitchen, living room; Dining room; Basemeni; All rooms and kitchen furnished; 1 Bathroom, shower In basement; 
washer; dryer; and deep freezer; equ'lpped with security system; walking distance from Notre Dame. You may call after 4 pm. ph 232-7180. 
Furnished room, 1 male, call 287­1997. 
Whole upstairs floor for rent. Girls only, sso a mo. 283-7570,233-1329. 
For Rent: Clean, comfortable, bedroom, Study Room andl Bath. $30 per month, Mrs Spencer 233· 4670. 
LOST & FOUND 
LOST: Pair square brown glasses between Grace and Library. Paul, 1004. 
LOST: Brown key case Friday night containing about 8 keys. If found call Bob, 233-2744. 
Lost: Blue windbreaker with set of keys In \pocket. Call Kevin, 23-4­8083. 
Found outside Farley: contacts In red glasses case. Call Annette, 6745. 
Lost: 1 calculus Book while In line for Chicago tlx's Fri. night. Whoever borrowed It call Connie, 7939. 
PERSONALS 

Are you a turtle? Elect John Salveson, SLC Representative. 
"Interested In becoming a Catholic?" Discussion group being formed. Call Campus Ministry (6536) or drop In the office (103 Lib.) 
PRE-LAW and PRE-MED students, send for booklets of all medlca_l or all law schools con· talnlng average, minimum and recommended GPA, LSAT and MCAT scores for 1976-77 ad­mittance. Send $2.00 to Pre­professional Advisory, Box 13872, Gainesville, Florida 32604. 
Congratulations Dan Devlnell Notre Dame's only undefeated football coach. 
Happy Birthday, "Schnookum's" 
(T.B.l From "Honeybunch" (sorry It's late). 
• 

" 
'· 
the observer Thursday, September li.J!!!
2 



~otre Dame-Purdue:not the sa 
by Rich Odioso . 
Notre Dame and Purdue, 1t oul~ ~e one of the greate~t valnes m colle~e f~t~all. Once It as. The t~o umversitles ar~ such 1tural nvals. Geogr_aphically 'JSe, _the schools are hght ye_ars ~art 1n other aspects. Purdue~~ a 
1
hool that looks _to the future ~~de otre D~me clmgs ~o tr~ditiOn. urdue IS proud of Its s1ze and _gness, ~otre ~arne equally 
oud of Its, relative smallness. otre Dames Lady s~ands atop e Gold~n Dome .. whde Purdue Ills Itself Mother of stronauts." Once it was one of the biggest 
ames of the season. Annual ontestants since 1946, the teams ave competed for a tophy known 
s the Shillelagh since 1957. The .oilermakers hold a 10-8 edge mce the Shillelagh's inception. 
There was one stretch in the mid nd late '60's when Purdue-Notre arne stood unsurpassed for 
mportance and interest. tEMEMBER: t!Hi4: Ara Parseghian's first 

,10me game as Irish coach saw ~urdue take an early lead on Bob ;riese's quarterback sneak. But ~ick Eddy leads the ground game, iohn Huarte comp_letes nine passes .nd Alan Page goes 57 yards with a -~locked punt as Ara 's Irish go on to m easy win. NOTRE DAME (final ·ecord 9-1) 34, PURDUE (6-3) 15. 1965: Griese missed two of his 1rst three passes in Ross-Ade Stadium but still finished 19 of 22 ~or 283 yards. With Griese 
Ivan's go-ahead fielil goal. Gr~ese promptly marched the Boller­
makers 67 yards in four plays, throwing passes of 32, 13, and 19 
yards before han?in~ off to GOrdon 
Teter for the wmmng touchdown 
run of three yards. PURDUE 25 (7·2-U;'NOTRE DAME 21·.(7-2-1) 
t!HiG; Terry Hanratty and Jim 
Seymour's first game was also 
their best. There was no score late 
in the first quarter when Hanratty 
hit Seymour for the first of many 
completions, a 42-yarder deep into 
Boilermaker territory. On third 
down Rocky Bleier fumbled and 
Leroy Keyes scooped up the loose 
ball and streaked 94 yards for a 
touchdown. Nick Eddy streaked 
right back returning the kickoff 97 
yards to tie the game. 
With the national TV audience 
fully awake Hanratty and Seymour 
went to work. There was an 84­
yard bomb just before halftime, a 
39.yard scoring strike early in the 
fourth quarter and finally a third 
touchdown toss of just seven yards. 
Seymour finished with school 
records that still stand of 13 
catches for 276 yards. NOTRE 
DAME 26 (g-0-1), PURDUE 14 (9­
2) t!Hi7: Boilermaker Coach Jack · 

Mollenkopf started sophomore 
Mike Phipps against the defending 
national champions and his 40­
yard pass to Beirne set up an early 
Purdue score. A 26-yard run by 
Hanratty gave ND a 7-6 edge at the 
half despite the ND quarterback's 
33 pass attempt. The second half 
was an unparalleled aerial duel 
won by Phipps three touchdowns to 

~hrowing two touchdown passes to two. Hanratty's second TD pass of Jim Beirne and one to Randy the half to Paul Snow tied the game Minnear the score stood 18-18 after 21-21 with 12 minutes left but 'hree quarters. With five minutes Phipps came back to hit Bob 
•eft ND's Bill Zloch passed 37 yards Baltzell with a 31-yard shot to win ~ Dan Harshman setting up Ken it. Hanratty's totals of 29 for 63 for 
3ill Brink~~===============:::===========================::================================· 

The Irish Eye 
~=;=;~:=::::~:::=::~======:::=:=::-;:::=======*'->======->============:::::====-..:.============:::~=================Making it 
There is something special about being a quarterback at Notre Dame. 
The position has a unique quality about it, one which demands a high ·eve! of success; success which is measured not only' by statistics, but by near-mystical qualities of spirit and leadership which Notre Dame 

.. football tradition requires. The minute a player takes the field as lllarterback for the Irish, he is under pressure from all sides to ":make t". Rick Slager found out what it was all about Monday night when he took he first snap from center against Boston College. He was the successor 
o John Huarte, Terry Hanratty, Joe Theisman and Tom Clements, and hat's like trying to fit in on the 1927 Yankees. He had never started Jefore, had only 18 minutes total playing time in college, and had a 1acked stadium plus a national television audience to make his debut in ront of. 
"Everyone, me included, was really tight for the first half," Slager ,aid. "I'd never started before, I just didn't know what I could do." 
It seemed that the pressure got to him, because he didn't do much in the first half. He comp_leted only one of five passes for just three yards. He 'lad several broken plays, failed to move the offense consistently, and most important, he did not lead the team into the end zone. 

# " •·» ., ---· ~ r.,...~ ..,,.N~• 
~ ~.-"';ioL. f; ""'\-~.¢1' '~· ~--~·~4' :
t 

•'I 11 ,.. , • • . . , • ~· .· '#
y 

r l ;;,•#. ' · , . . "'f · ·· 
" 
~-., 

·· r ·· . • . •. . . . ' ·h
.iS:.... .. "\

' '. f>"-r'
b . . .. . •. ~.. . 
··~ .·,.. • 
Last year the Boilermakers stunned Tom Clements, Ara Parseghian and nearly 60,000 fans in the Notre Dame stadium. Saturday the Irish travel to Lafayette for a rematch. 
the 1:44 mark. An aerial born­bardment by Hanratty marched the Irish to a score three seconds before the half and the wild second quarter ended with Purdue leading 23-14. The third quarter was scoreless but Keyes' brilliant IS­yard run on the final quarter's first play sealed Notre Dame's fate. PURDUE 'Sl CB-2), NOTRE DAME 22 (7-2-1). 
t!Hi!l: Phipps made it three for three, passing for 217 yards. Wayne Bullock's brother, John, added 71 on the ground as the Boilermakers never looked back from a 21-7 halftime lead. Joe Theismann hit two TD passes but it wasn't enough. PURDUE 28 (8­2), NOTRE DAME 14 <8-1-ll. 
The 1970's have not been as kind 
to Purdue's football program. 
Starting with 1970's 48-0 rout the 
Irish ran off four straight wins 
until last year. In the '70's the 
Boilermakers overall record is 
only 22-20-1. 
Despite last year's game there is 
jnst not the &~me ring to Notre 
Dame-Purdue that there once was . 
Ofsetting any natural advantages, 
the most important thing to a 
football rivalry is two top-flight 
teams. Purdue has not been that 
for the last several years. 
To Notre Dame, their recovery period shortened by two days, Saturday's game should not be easy by any stretch of the imagination. But the Purdue that faces the Irish across theline of scrimmage is not the glamorous team it once was. Hopefully Purdue will soon have a new set of Griese's, Phipps' and Keyes', and the great Notre Dame-Purdue rivalry will flourish again. 
Cheerleading 
tryouts 
All those interested in trying out for the 1975-76 hockey cheerleaders squad are asked to contact Beth at 6723 or JoAnne at 4629 im­mediately. Skating experience is required for the cheerleaders. 
366 yards set Notre Dame records but his four interceptions proved costly. PURDUE 28 (8-2), NOTRE DAME 21 (8-2). 
1!16!1: Notre Dame led 7-3 mid­way through the second quarter when the trio of Phipps, Keyes and receiver Bob Dillingham went to work for a blitz of the Irish only recently surpassed. Keyes scored on a 16-yard run with 5:04 left in the half, Keyes passed to Dillingham for a 17-yard score with 2A:57 left and following Bob Gladieux's fumble Phipps hit Dillingham on a 16-yard score at 

*Observer 





Sports 
Appeals court reduces traveling squad to 48 
NEW ORLEANS (AP) _ A federal appeals court struck down on Wednesday an Alabama judge's ruling that college football traveling squads may have 60 players instead of being limited to 
_ The NCAA said travel squads
48 
would be cut back to 48 players after this weekend. 
The 5th u.s. Circuit Court of Appeals order suspended a tern­porary injunction which had granted to Alabama Coach Paul 

~em e~ new "I tried to go into the game reallow-key,"he explained, "trying not to Kornman decides mstructlo~s on Thursday. 
think about it one way or the other. But at halftime I knew 'I either do it or I don't. • We h•ad to get going." 
You could see the difference. In the first set of downs Slager completed two passes and plunged for a first down on 4th and1. The Irish were forced Ito punt, and lost the ball their next set of downs on a fumble. But lhe confidence was there in Slager, knowledged gained from one half as quarterback. He knew that not only could he play the position, but that he better play it. On the Irish's next possession he looked like he had arrived.lle completed three crisp passes in a smoothly-engineered 60 yard drive that culminated in the Irish's first score. When ND regained the ball on an interception, he set up the next score with a perfect strike to Ken MacAfee. 
"I just started doing it,"he said. "I threw a pass toBurgmeierthat I wouldn't have thrown in the first half because I would have been afraid to, I didn't know what would work." 
. When the game was over and the Irish had won their opener 17-3, Slager raisedlhis fists in the air anbd led the team into; the locker room, a huge smile beaming on his face. As he showered and dressed he fielded the countless !questions that the crowd of reporters shot at him, alarge crowd fitting for· the quarterback of Notre Dame. 
"It's something I've been thinking about since I was a kid," he said. "I felt confident, especially after the first score. I knew all we needed was a little time." 
When 1faced with the pre-season speculation I that Notre Dame did not have an established quarterback he replied: "I've heard and read all fall that we needed a quarterback. They say that every time somebody new takes over. I remember my freshman year when Tommy (Clements) was starting and they said \the same thing then." 
The locker room emptied out, 1the buses were waiting, and still the reporters huddled around iJim. He was Jsmiling, friendly, and cordial; the happiest person there. They practically had to drag him out to_ the bus, and as he left you could see the look on his face. It was only the first] game and there was Ia long season yet ahead, but he knew that someway, somehow, he had made it. 

to leave football 
Notre Dame's senior running back Russ Kornman has decided to leave football and pass up his final year of eligibility. 

"I've just decided that I really don't want to play football anymore. That's all there is to it," Russ explained. 
The 6-foot, 200 pound Kornman, a Wauwatosa, Wisconsin native, rushed for six yards in his only carry on Monday night. He was considered to be among the top Irish pass receivers when coming out of the backfield. 
Over the past three campaigns, Kornman saw limited action with the varsity, averagin more than five yards a carry with 272 yards in 56 runs over that span. Last year he picked up 99 yards in 25 carries and scored four touchdowns. 
He missed seven weeks in 1973 with a sprained ankle and missed last spring's intersquad game with a partial shoulder separation. 
Sophomore AI Hunter is ex­pected to replace Kornman at running back. 
"Bear" Bryant after a hearing before U.S. District Judge Sam C. Pointer Jr· in Tuscaloosa on Sept.8· 
The NCAA said college squads may travel with 60 players this weekend, but that the old limit of 48 would apply after that. 
"Schools already have things in motion for this weekend," said the spokesman, Warren Brown, ad­ding that the NCAA would probabbly send let_ters to its 
schools With the 
~uspe,nsiOn or stay of Judge Pomter s o~der had been by ~e NCAA pendmg the_ out~ome ?f. 1ts appeal of Judge Pomter s decision. 
In granting the NCAA plea, the Circuit Court refused to accept the case as one of high importance and thus grant it a quick hearing, which would have cut several months off normal court procedure. 

GRAND. OPENING! SPECIAL 
Beer Prices You Won't ·Believe &GOOD PIZZA ·TOO! 
THE BACK DOOR 
(BEHIND THE CAPRI LIQUOR STORE) 


