
university of notre dame st. mary's college 
Thursday July 31, 1975 Vol 10 No. 8 
The drumbeats you hear coming across the campus are signaling the annual invasion of America's Youth on Parade. Over 4,000 participants are here to choose, among other things, "Miss Majorette of America," "The Boy's National Twirling Cham­pion," "The Drum Major Championship" and "The Porn Pon girls of the year." 
The A YOP people have made Notre Dame their home, and bring more than one million dollars In business to the South Bend area. They'll be here till Saturday night, when they have their "big show," which will attract more than six thousand people, Including par­ticipants and observers. Story on page three. 

Searching for a different lifestyle, for a look at how people live in another culture, Sister Jane Pitz, Assistant Director of Campus Ministry, went to Pippa Passes in Appalachia. There, she found a people who, though poor, were extremely proud and dignified. 

Visiting their homes, she witnessed the strength of the family bonds, the quiet loyalty of the elders, and the values held by people who have had to go on without material 
goods. The heritage of the people is as old as the countryside and as revealing as the face of a miner. Story on pages four and five. 

This week saw two an­nouncements of staff changes in the Administration. Dr. James A. Roemer, University counsel since 1972, has been appointed dean of students. He will replace current dean, John Macheca, who will serve as special assistant to Roemer while pursuing graduate studies at the University this fall. 

Brian C. Regan, director of development at Notre Dame, has been named to the position of executive assistant to Dr. James 
W. Frick, vice president of public relations and development at the University. The appointment Is effective Friday, August 1. 

If a group sets itself up to reflect ind reinforce the feelings and ideas of its listeners, then what can be expected of them in concert? Most likely, they will put on a fairly normal, fairly uneventful per­formance. That's just what the Eagles did at the A.C.C. last Thursday :night. Read how the group "who very well may write the quintessential cruising song some day," put on a highly forgettable show. Page ten. 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

2
r 
t t 
t Is I
Iill 
_______.__________ 
I THIS SUNDAY AUG. 3 ·!I NO COVER CHARGE 1 WITH THIS AD 1 
NOW APPEARING I 
I

NOWHERE MEN 
I 
I 



SBULMS i 
I ITITB CLUB I
I I
On U.S. 31 between Niles and South Bend-Free Parking-Ph. 683·4350 
• CONTINUOUS ENTERTAINMENT FROM 9 P.M:, TILL 2 A.M. I 

BOOGIE RECORDS r------IOOGIE RECORDS ..-----BOOGIE RECORDS---· 
.---~~~~~--------~·----------­
I



! SECOND CONCERT 
~ 
{across front Town & Couatry) 

Music Store" ­

2---BOOGIE RECORDS--.;.,.--BOO~RECORDS-----BOOGI£ RECORDS!­
• 

Q!,_ 

CELEBRATION SALE!! 


~All FOGHATLP's 
~' (TH URS.-thru-TUES.)
~ 
0 

0 Why pay more when you don't have to!- 
I  
I I I I  Rock  • soul  •  Jazz  •  Blues  • Bluegrass  
I  
I  •  Special orders filled promptly!  
Q "' 0 -u...- 919-B College Square Mishawaka, Indiana  

:·
. v
11

the observer Thursday July 31, 1975 
Dance this weekend to 
PATCHWORK 
~ 

Michiana's top Rock Night Club! 
I 

•4, BILL NAGY'S 1I 12~EST FIR,.~•!!!, Iill 
-



Insights.•••••. 
Latest police reports from Darwini, Australia, are alerting the populace to be on the lookout for five killer toads still at large after 19 escaped from a local biology teacher. 
The eight-inch toads squirt a poison deadly to cats, dogs and pigs. Ordinarily, they eat blow flies. These "sugar cane toads" will also eat anything from cigarette butts to ping-pong balls, and have been referred to as "walking vacuum cleaners." 
The real danger that the five toads 
possess is their ability to reproduce at a rate 
of 20,000 anually. The problem is so extreme 
that the local radio stations have been 
playing the mating call of the sugar cane 
toad in the hopes of drawing them out into 
the open. Even local school children, 
carrying pictures of the species, have been 
sent out to comb the fields for the renegade 
toads. 
* 
As reported in a recent issue of Rolling 
Stone, a letter from a constituent to Rep. 
Ron Dellums (D.-Cal.) contains perhaps the 
most cogent argument against gun control 
ever presented. 
Writes the constituent: "I don't think we 
should have stricter gun control laws 
because we need guns for hunting and 
protection. For instance, say we needed a 
shotgun to go duck hunting but you couldn't 
get a shotgun because of the gun laws. 
Right now you can buy a shotgun, but after 
we take away handguns, robbers , mur­
derers, etc. will buy rifles. Then we will 
take away rifles, so robbers, murderers, 
etc. will buy shotguns. Then we will take 
away shotguns and pretty soon we won't be 
able to get guns to go duck hunting. Then 
there will be an overpoJ:mlation of ducks." 
When Sen. George* McGovern was in Cuba, he asked Fidel Castro if he would release the nine Americans who were being held there on narcotics, espionage, hijacking and various other charges. Castro demurred, though, and said "If I release the prisoners to you, what will I have left when Sen. Kennedy comes?" 
Anthony Renteria, *" 20, of Union City, N.J., has been charged with passing a marijuana cigarette to a two-year-old child in a school yard. He was also charged with posession of 25 grams of marijuana and contributing to the deliquency of a minor. 
• 
Charles Roberts, 62, of Eastbourne, England, received the world's record for tomato growing for his tomato weighing14.5 pounds. The great gardener attributed his success to stereo headphones he put on the growing tomato, playing music to it con­tinuously. 
~ 
,.
... 
1"'\ 
2 
c:J 
U\ 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
0 
-
0 
G')
I;;; 

Dr. Arnold Mandell, chairman of the Department of Psychiatry at U.C. San Diego, has come to the astonishing con­clusion that it may soon be possible to develop "exquisite" new drugs without side effects which will allow normal users to select the lifestyle they desire. 
One <"pill A") will permit the user to be dynamic, active ~nd creative for three months. Another ("pill 8") will permit him to summon every available molecule of aggression. Dr. Mandell calls the new drugs chemical coping agents. 
Other coping agents will permit takers to separate more easily from loved ones. Still another will make it possible for them to work twenty hours a day. 
* 
To further fill your science-fiction fan­tasies: A full-scale, two-and-a-half hour battle was won by Chicago Municipal workers this summer when thousands of red ants attacked a motorist this summer on the . Edens Expressway in Chicago. The motorist had stopped to change a flat tire. 
Highway maintenance crews used a mixture of weed killer, fuel oil and gasoline to quash the ant rebellion, after fending 
.. them off with water so the driver could 
escape with his vehicle. The majority of the 
ant army was felled by the fumes. A nearby 
ant hill was "being kept under servation."  ob­ 
*  
As we've reported before, you  can  now  

write the FBI and the CIA to find out if they've been keeping a personal file on you and, if so, what's in it. Since the amendment took effect, an average of 111 people per day have been asking for the files. 
Now, however, Congress has intervened and inadvertantly put an end to the fun. The latest issue of Rolling Stone magazine reports that the House has passed the Privacy Act, which was supposed to expand the scope of freedom of information. But Justice Department spokesmen say that just the opposite will happen. As they see it when the new law takes effect in September, when you write to the CIA and ask for your file under the Freedom of Information Act, you will receive a polite reply informing you that the Freedom of Information Act no longer covers personal files, and that you should submit your request under the new Privacy Act. 
And here's the catch: The CIA and the FBI are exempt from releasing files under the new Privacy Act. 
These latest governmental machinatioqj have caused Nader lawyers to threaten court suits and at least one Deputy Assistant Attorney General to threaten suicide. "I'm planning to die," says Mary Lawton, who handles the Privacy Act. "This bill will close the whole government. It's made me an anarchist." 
"*** 

the observer 
I I Youth on Parade" march into ND 
by Andy Praschak Associate Editor 

With batons twirling, smiles beaming and glitter shining, "America's Youth on Parade" have marched into every nook and cranny of the Notre Dame campus. The participants number somewhere around 4,000 according to Don Sartell, a professional producer and coordinator of the event which is held each year here at the University of Our Lady. 
The annual event which according to Sartell, brings over one million dollars in business to the South Bend area, includes twenty-seven world champion contests that will be judged by a panel of over 200, many of whom are doctors, lawyers, and stock­brokers. The contest is being held for the tenth consecutive year and the fifth straight year here at Notre Dame. "Five years ago, we decided to make Notre Dame a per­manent location for the event," Sartell said. 
Most of the entrants, who have come to Notre Dame from all fifty states and also France, Japan and Canada, have competed for and won local and regional cham­pionships in their areas. Events range anywhere from "Miss Majorette of America" to "Military Corps International Championships" according to Sartell. He also noted that the competetion will attract approximately six thousand people, in­cluding participants and observers. Ac­cording to calculations, ninety percent of the entrants are female and ten percent of them are male. Categories for the males include "Boy's National Twirling", "Drum Major Championship" and "National World Boy's Championship." 
Allan Scott is nineteen years old, a member of the U.S. Navy and competing in the competition. He is here trying to defend his title as National Military March champion which he won last year here at Notre Dame. Allan, who hails from Hunt­sville, Alabama, expresses pleasure over the fact that the competition is being held at Notre Dame. "I think the campus is ab­solutely beautiful and the atmosphere is fantastic," he said. 
Competitors range anywhere from six years old to twenty Nilufer Kapadia is nine years old and a member of the only com­peting group from Canada. Nilufer noted that her birthday is this Friday. "This is really beautiful sight and I can't think of anywhere I'd rather spend my birthday," she said. She was also proud to boast that her group, from St. Catherine's, Ontario is sure to take first place in their division. The group, like most others in the competition won regional titles, a country-wide cham­pionship, and then worked and saved enough money to come to Notre Dame to compete in international competition. 
Besides the competition, Sartell has arranged for the youths to have a week of what he termed "top-notch" entertainment. 
Bo Donaldson and the Heywoods, who recorded, "Billy Don't Be A Hero," along with Anson Williams will be entertaining the kids. Anson Williams portrays "Potsy" on the weekly television series, "Happy Days" and will be headlining the AYOP Big Show which will be presented on August 2. 
Many of the competitors are so young that they are hardly taller (or wider in many cases) than the batons they are twirling. Consequently, many outside observers have expressed concern over ins tilling the rigorous spirit of competition in the children. However, all participants in­terviewed seemed to disagree with these 
negative feelings. Sharon Napier is four­teen years ?ld and has been competing since she was six. "The competition's tough really tough. I can't discount that fact "sh~ said. Howe_ver she noted that although she star~ed at SIX she regrets not starting at an earlier age. This is Sharon's fifth year of competition here at Notre Dame and she also teaches twirling in her spare time. 

Mrs. Napier also regrets not starting her daughter at a younger age. She objected to anyone refering to her as a stage mother. "I only want Sharon to do what whe wants and what she's good at. It's easy to see she loves what she's doing," she boasted. 
Laurie Wilson is sixteen years old and sat beside the two trophies she has accumulated so far in the competition. "The competition is very tough on kids my age and also on the really little ones," she said. Laurie hagan competing only two years ago and also regrets not starting earlier. "Starting when you're young provides you with the ex­perience and confidence you need not only here in competition but also in life," she said. Laurie plans to twirl in college and added that she thoroughly enjoyed her visit to Notre Dame. 
The competition began on Wednesday and will conclude on Saturday with The Big Show on Saturday night. 
To most of the four thousand that are here 
the AYOP is very important happening. It 
is their chance to prove and recieve 
recognition for all their talent and the hard 
Work they have put in over the past year. 
Win or lose, almost all agree that it was a 
great experience and will work even harder 
during the coming year to return to Notre 
Dame next summer. 


Macheca

the new position of executive assistant to Dr. James W. Frick, 
The Observer Is published Monday
vice president for public relations 
through Friday and weekly during
and development at the Univer-Dr. James A. Roemer, . a special assistant to him while to his legal duties at Notre Dame, 
the summer session, except during
sity. The appointment is ef-University counsel at Notre Dame pursuing graduate study next fall he has been city attorney of South 
exams and vacation periods. The
fective Friday <August 1). since 1972, has been appointed at the University. Bend, a part-time position. He has 
Observer Is published by the 
A native of Joliet, Ill., and a 1961 dean of students, it has been an-Roemer, a native of South Bend, also held legal positions in the St. 
students of the University of Notre
Joseph County Prosecutor's Of­graduate of Notre Dame, he is also nounced by Br?ther J~st Pac-holds a B.A. in economics from 
Dame and St. Mary's College.
fice, the South Bend Redevelop­a major in the U.S. Marine Corps zesny, C.S.~ .• vice president for 
Subscriptions may be purchased 
. . student affairs. Notre Dame awarded in 1951 and a ment Department, and the St. 
for 8 dollars per semester (16
reserves and commandmg officer . . 
Joseph County Board of Zoningof Company B, sth Engineer Roei?er, wh_ose appomtment IS J.D. degree from the Notre Dame 
dollars per year) from The Ob·
Appeals.

Battalion in South Bend. He is effective Fnday (August 1), Law School in 1955. He joined the 
server, Box Q Notre Dame, ln­
He is a member of the Urbansecretary of the St. Joseph High succeeds John A. Mac~ec~, who staff of the University three years 
dlana."'65S6. Second Class postage 
League, the United Negro College School Board of Education a was named Notre Dame s first lay ago after four years in the South 
paid, ~tre Dame, IN 46556
Fund, and Neighborhood Studymember of the South Bend Rotary dean of students in 1973. Brother Bend law firm of Roemer. 
Hel Inc.

and of the boards of the St. Joseph J;;u:s~t;:sa:;i::;d;;;M~ac~h.:e::;c~a;;;;w::;o;::u:ld;;;:;s~er~v;:e;a!;;s~=Sw=ee=n:e:!!~Y;:;a:=nid::R=:oe:m:=e::;r·:::=In;==:a:dd::i~ti:=oiin County Chapter of the American 
MEN-WOMEN 

Red Cross and Goodwinn In­dustries. 

VEGETARIAN ?? 

If you're looking
Before coming to Notre Dame, Regan was with the All-8teel 
WE OFFER A FULL LINE OF 


for an ordinary job,
Equipment firm in Aurora, Ill. He 
and his wife, Sharon, have three 
VEGETARIAN FOODS, ALSO A 

children. 
don't look here.

LARGE VARIETY OF HEALTH 

Many jobs on this page require experience.
Frick, who has been in charge of 
Ours don't-just high standards and the desire the Division of Public Relations 

FOODS INCLUDING NON-MEAT 

to learn. (You'll be paid while you learn, too.) and Development since 1965, said 
Many jobs pay a salary or wage. Our jobs that Regan would assume a 

PROTEINS. VISIT THE: 

include free medical and dental care, food and variety of responsibilities, in­
housing, a 30-day paid vacation every year, 
besides a good salary.





HOUSE OF

cluding budget monitoring, space Many jobs offer you one kind of work. We offerand facilities control, liaison with you a choice of training in over 300 good jobs. 
student government and other 
SOMETHING 

And, if you qualify, we'll guarantee your joborganizations, planning of training in writing, before you enlist.
divisional staff in-service And, finally, many jobs give you an opportu­educational programs, and 


BETTER 

nity to work for a company. Ours give you an opportunity to work for your Country. 
assistance with alumni 
10% DISCOUNT ON AIL VITAMINS AND 

Call

programing. FOOD SUPPLEMENTS THIS WEEK WITH Regan came to Notre Dame in UNIVERSITY I D. 
Army Opportunities 
1968 as a regional director of 2JJ7-5310 


232·1616 

development and has headed the 
Join the people who've joined the Army. 
t

!levelopment Department since 1602 S. MJCHIGAN ST. S.B. 
An Equ11 Opportunity Employer 

1973. !=======-:!!:::=:::!l=::i:::::::=============~ 
------------------~---­
I 

the observer Thursday July 31, 1975 
FOR A SPECIAL OCCASION ( OR FOR NO REASON AT ALL ) 
SAY IT WITH FLOWERS or GIFTS 
from WYGANT FLORAL co. INC. 327 LWW SOUTH BEND 



232-3354 
:r: 
~ 



w NO 
SMC 
THEATRE 
Phone: 284-4176 
A musical version of William Pratt's famed temperance melodrama 
July 31, Aug. 1, 2 
at 8:00P.M. $2.75 UTILE THEATRE St. Mary's College 
AIR CONDITIONED. 
I 
I 


MEN-WOMEN 

90,000 people are earning college credits in the Army. 
You can learn a skill, earn a good salary, and still continue your formal education byserving in the Army. 
90,000 young men and women like yourself did last year. They earned college credits on Army posts. At nearby universities and col­leges. And through correspondence courses. And the Army paid up to 75% of their tuition. 
If you're interested in the outstanding edu­cational opportunities available in today's Army, call your local Army Representative. 
.

. Call
.
.
.

. Army Opportunities 
. 

232-1616 
Join the people who've joined the Army. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer
.

...•...............................•......•...•...••.•............ 



THIS WEEKEND 
AT 

NICKlE'S 
LIVE MUSIC! ! 
Every WED., FRI., & SAT. From 10:00 p.m. to 2:00a.m. 
-NO COVER­-NO INCREASE IN PRICE­FREE PARKING -A&P LOT 
928 N. EDDY, S.B. (Just a Few Blocks South of NO) 
' 


Applachian yield new 
by Sue l!wick Production Manager 
In eastern Kentucky, buried so deep within the mountains that the horizon lacks for sky, lies Pippa Passes. The 1 town was romantically named after a legendary Browning character, Pippa, the girlish woman who brings life into everything she touches. The name was bestowed upon the area by Alice Lloyd, founder of the college situated in the Appalachian town. 
Alice Lloyd was an educator who moved to Appalachia half a century ago and offered the people her only skill-teaching their children. In exchange for the education, the men and women of Pippa Passes gave Lloyd their only talent-labor. The college, a two­year accredited liberal arts school, was built into the side of a mountain by the people whose heritage is as old as the countryside. 
This summer, Pippa Passes was invaded by people from all over the country , mostly educators and social volunteers, who had come to take advantage of the Appalachain Term offered by the Alice Lloyd College. The curriculum, a week-long, intensive exposure course, wasaimedat preparing the people for whatever cultural shock they would receive while working in Appalachia the remaining time of their summer. One of the pupils enrolled was Sr. Jane Pitz, Assistant Director of the Office of Campus Ministry at Notre Dame 
At the closing of the spring semester, Sr. 
Jane received an invitation to attend the 
session and work in Appalachia for a part of 
her summer. For reasons that ranged from 
"A different lifestyle" to "Furthering my 
education" she accepted. Abandoning the 
photography project she had planned , Pitz 
and three others from Green Bay , 
Wisconsin drove to Kentucky. 


experience perspectives 
·short period .of time, they quit their jobs and 
returned to Kentucky. "They just couldn't 
stand to be away from home," Pitz ex­
plained. 

Further converstion with Sloan gave some 
reasoning for the boys' loyalty. Sloan 
supplemented her husband's salary by 
making quilts and selling them around the 
valley. Over the years, she had made 
and stored approximately 200 quilts, beyond 
those already sold. According to Sloan, 
these quilts were her contribution to the 
family heritage and would never be sold. 
She had made them specifically for her 
grandchildren and these along with a hand­
written book she had compiled about her 
late husband, were the homespun 
memorbilia she would pass along. Sloan 
had hoped that her· grandchildren and their 
future generations would cherish the family 
relationships embodied in her hand-made 
goods. She felt that if they didn't realize the 
pride in the family's heritage, and didn't 
find more value in this than material goods, 
something was wrong with them. "These 
people saw no value in material things. 
They eaked out a fairly good existence, but 
saw no value in material goods," Pitz ad­
ded. 

The land of Kentucky was colonized by mineral companies before the Civil War. Th:..3 type of' colonization. was not breaking new land, rather in the exploitation of the peopl~-, in raping the land, and deserting the barren wastes for those who remained. 
"Kentucky is the wealthiest mineral land in the United States,and yet the people who live there are still poor," Sr. Jane remarked. The peopletechnically own the land, but previous generations had sold the mineral rights to various companies who still validate the contracts. "This is the great issue right now, strip mining. They 
"These people don't c_onsider themselves poor. And I can't feel they are either." 
"All the time we were driving , I kept trying to formulate why I was doing this. Mainly to experience a different lifestyle. I pretty much have the things I need; there are alot of comforts I take for granted. I wanted to do something that would make me change," she explained. 
"In the religious life, I'm supposed to lead a life of simplicity. Yet when I sit and 
-think, it's all so complex . I wanted to do that for myself, I wanted to reevaluate how much I put stock in things," Pitz stated. 
Even more than the individual search was the learning opportunity. " ·I had heard myself say ''There are other lifestyles ..' Lut I had never experienced any," she revealed. Pitz stated that she wanted to be impressed by it, and felt only that by living this life could she actually understand it. "I guess I wanted to speak with the trueness of the experience," she said. 
Upon arriving at Pippa Passes, the group was immediately bombarded with seminars, films and lectures of the area and its society. Classes lasted from 8:30am to 
10:30 pm and consisted of a curriculum which touched the political, social, and economic aspects of the Appalachian heritage. "There was a time set aside for each individual to give an honest reflection on his reasons for being there and to set out a plan," said Sr. Jane, "and then we were expected to follow through on what we felt." 
Many of the seminars centered around poverty and social justice. "When we think of Appalachia, we use it to equate a poverty belt in America ... and we think of hillbillies. Those concepts became broader; it included those, but went beyond them,"Pitz stated. 
The main question she faced was decidiJ1.S what kind!of help these poeple wanted or needed. "They don't even know they're poor. Somehow, I still held onto the notion that poverty is the lack of material wealth. These people don't have material wealth, but they are not poor," she remarked. 
Sr. Jane expalined,"The term ;!poor' somehow carries the stigma of degredation with it. These people don't consider themselves poor, and I can't feel;· that they are either." 
The children of the area are not prone to 
move 1away from the mountains•1 and those who do often return. One particular in­cident, revealed to Sr. Jane by Verna Mae Sloan lof Pippa Passes,involved her sons. Both boys had left the area and moved west to Indiana, where they found employment and earned a substantial salary. Within a (the companies) are not only stealing,: the wealth, but are destroying the land," Sr. Jane stated. "Sure, there are laws, but 

there are loopholes too. And Ford's veto didn't help." 
Ford's veto of the strip mining bill halted the only legislation strong enough to restrict the industrial exploitation ofAppalachia. There is more than just the economic factor involved. Recent flooding and the outbreak of critical floods are<!-S are directly related with erosion caused by strip mining. Farms, stores and whole towns have· become victim to the frequent floodings, the intensity of which has sharply increased the number of fatalities. The communities feel that they are not only bargaining with their land, but with their lives and those of their families. 
"The young people tend to be cynical. They realize this 'colonization' ... they un­derstand their heritage and there is a strong 
<continued on page 5) 


..' . . '· . \ 

Thursday July 31, 1975 
the observer 
THE POSTER PLACE 
100 11 x17 POSTERS only $10.00 
INSTY PRINTS 
203 N. MAIN ST. SOUTH BEND 289-6977 



KentUcky Moulit0il1folk find the real life 

Project, the time spent at Pippa Passes was a unique experience. "It was a different land unto itself,"she stated. u.filled you and didn't leave you." 
The Appalachian Term at Alice \Lloyd College ended on a Friday, and the group was expected in Berea, Kentucky on Sun­day. The three-hour drive took them from the south-eastern part of the state into the heart of the mountains. 
Berea College, along with Lancaster, 
McKee , and Mount Vernon , was the focal 
point for the Christian Appalachian Project. 
Berea, like Alice Lloyd College, is a higher educational institutional designated for mountain youths. Long before the Civil War, blacks were admitted to the college until a Kentucky ordinance ordered separate education facilities. In spite of the repeal of this law, the black population had declined and never reached the proportions it had in 1860. 
All students at the college in addition to their regular academic activities, are required to participate in a work-study program. Jobs available range from far­ming to managing the hotel located within the town. The object of the work program, besides helping each student afford his tuition, is to impress Bereas motto on each 

Foreign Car Parts Co.

~-1) Parts & accessories for imported car for all makes at lowest prices.
lllealon•l Distributor 

'************************* 
: For all Students, Faculty & Staff, a 10 :
*percl"nt discount with ID and purchasl" of * 
*$10 or mort" * 
\***********************.. 
215 Dixie Way N Roseland' So. Be11d 
t___=......::..:;c_______~---------·­
( continul"d from page 4 l sense of fighting for that which IS theirs" 
remarked Sr. Jane . Politically, the com­munities had become active enough to push lhe strip mining reform bill through Congress, but Ford's veto ended their ef­forts at organization. "They don't c;~em to be ready to give up. ··.-.~ugh, "Pitz stated. "They are fightmg for their land; to return the land to the people." 
Part of the orientation at Pippa Passes include a tour of the mining country, and some home visiting. "I always felt that daylight was precious. I could never ub­derstand how men could work two miles underground in an unnatural position and in such an obviously dangerous job," she remarked. Talking to one of the miners, she learned of the rational behind their jobs. "I didn't ask him directly," she stated,"but he gave me the impression that because there was danger involved, he took pride in his work. She .sensed their pride stemmed from their realization that not every man would risk his life to make a living. "These men support their families on courage," she said. 
individual; "Work , both manual and 
mental, has dignity." 
The summer volunteer program at Berea 
consisted of spartan work, odd-jobs and 
home visiting. During her stay, Sr. Jane 
helped organize a rummage sale, tour­
guided at the local museum, cooked for the 
workers and helped register the local 
children in the children's summer camp. 
"Basically, at the CAP, we were workers. 
The whole thing was very task oriented. 
There was a sense of doing something, yet it 
certainly wasn't for yourself," s~e stated. 
The summer camp was ten day session day camps aimed at community cooperation. There were two camps, one for children 5 through 12 and one for teenagers 13 through 19. The teenage camp was an experiment, first being tested this summer. "It was similar to the children's camp but 
less structured," Sr. Jane explained. "The object of the session was to keep in touch with the kids s:~fterthey grew too old for the children's camp. Some families sent one or two, some couldn't spare any children . They were needed on the farm. Even so, it was a success," she said. 
Out of the various jobs she worked, Sr. Jane favored the home visitations. "I have a real respect for the Jehova Witnesses now," 
she laughed. Many of the people were elderly, and grateful for someone to talk to. She found the majority of people friendly and accepting. 
The object of the home visiting was to 

"The pride-you can keep on translating their pride into different experiences. " 
Th.~. town and everyone in it is owned by 
the mining company. The miners are never 
paid a set salary. They charge their 
necessary items at the company store and 
never have to deal in terms of money. This 
system, more than convenience, keeps the 
families in perpetual debt. 
The miners are supposedly protected by safety regulations and many of the com­munities have banded together to enforce 
these existing laws. However, plea bargaining has allowed many offending companies to get away with a lenient fine. And active or successful community groups can find their individual credit refused by the company store. The existence, to say the least, is frustrating. 
Sr. Jane reflected on the experience. "I'd like to learn alot more because I had come to understand something that I hadn't before. I'd read but this is much different when you actually meet it." 
"The pride ---you can keep on translating their pride into different experiences. It's a human experience ... You know the line, 'I owe my soul to the company store?' That really hit home,"she laughed. 
Sr. Jane felt the orientation at Pippa Passes generally prepared her for the rest of the summer's \Work with the Christian 
Apalachian Project. "We were bom­barded with the culture of the loca'J people. It gave me an orientation to the hills," she said. Although the Appalchian Term did not correlate to the Christian Appalachian recruit the children for summer camps bu!J.many homes were childless. Even so, the job yielded some interesting •stories. Barking dogs, dusty roads and unfamiliar people, not to mention 100 degree heat and an undistinguisable mountain twang all had to be braved. "One couple really impressed me with their sense of humor," Pitz said. "They kidded raria teased back and forth, with me included. They were so pleasant and so fun. They didn't care who I was, I was young , hot and tired just like them," she remarked. 
The impression of Kentucky which remained with her most vividly is the deep sense of the family past. It is not un­common. for the children to build their barn with remnants from their parent's farm. Children do most of their growing up sitting with the folks on the porch swing. "At any time of day, from about nine in the morning until sunset, someone always occupies the porch," Pitz recalled. She could not remember a single empty porch at anytime during her visit. 
Sr. Jane left Appalachia feeling she had so much more to learn, and voiced her desire to return to Kentucky. As for the work in Christian AppalachianProject, her reaction was varied. "Our jobs changed every day and you/couldn't get any pride out of what you were doing because you never oversaw anything or finished it through. It keeps you humble," she stated, "and you knew you were tired at the end of the day." 


Cavalier 
Camera 
Scottsdale Mall 
next to 

Bishop's Buffet 
0 pen Till 9 pm Evenings 
5 pm Sunday Camera 
and Darkroom Supplies 
···•·••••··•·············•····•··············•···•···············•.
. 

24 H 
~~ 0(/ 
~ 
~ 
0 
I 
M 
u s 
I 
c 

J & J GRILL 327 N. MICHIGAN 
11am-11pm Daily Dinner Specials 
only $1.49 
/L

""'/ A s
D '{ 
U' 
\ 
p 
I 
N 
B ...
.
A 
L 

··········•···········•••••·······•···•·•·•••••·•·••··••········ 
THROWING A PARTY?? 
HELPING YOU IS OUR BUSINESS 
5 OF THE HA~NDIEST SPOTS IN TOWN 
1. HANDY SPOT PARTY SHOPPE 3. ROSELAND PARTY SHOPPE 
1426 Mishawaka Ave. 113 Dhti•Woy N. 
2.. N. IRONWOOD PARTY SHOPPE oil. GOLDEN FLASK PARTY SHOPPE 
413 Hickory Rd. at McKinloy1725 N. Ironwood 
5. PARTY SHOPPE SOUTH 
• WINES • GOURMET FOODS ~1 S. Michigan of Ireland 

OF SOUTH BEND 
• 
LIQUORS • PARTY SUPPLIES 

• 
COLD BEER 



"If it's available, we will get it for you." 
FREE DELIVERY 287-7744 

Thursday July 31, 1975

bserver 
autrider~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
New York's Crisis 
\ 

NEW YORK--This is a city that lives on close margins -and by desperate risks. Watch a cab shave pedestrians, or a true New Yorker work his way up in line , or a waiter make room for more volume in a cheap restaurant. Not every borough iE Manhattan, of course; but this island sets the pace and raises all the problems. 
It's getting hard to buy a cup of coffee for less than 35 cents. The high rent, ."insurance taxes,and delivery costs go into every item sold. Such huge amounts of people and merchandise have to be moved so often in New York that any snag; even the slightest, is felt to be critical. Two days"garbage is like a year's supply in the town I grew up in. 
It is common, around the country, to say New York is the "fast track" 1But that can mean that one goes broke if one does not make it big. They say no Broadway show can survive unless it is a blockbuster. TV 
Still, there are too many people makmg too many demands. The city has gone broke trying to mee them all Mayor Beame's recent gestures were primarily theatrical-­meant to scare taxpayers into paying more, and to assure i~tvestors that municipal bonds will support a growing enterprise. 
More desperate measures are needed , and the place to start is not with essential services, like fire and police forces, but with the nonessentials (however desirable). 
That should mean no more free tuition on the eighteen campuses of the City University. Ninety percent of the incoming classes have come from families making less than $15,000 a year--which, in effect, means that 10 percent of the population is carrying most of this tax load. Or, rather, not carrying it anymore. 
It amazes me that right-wing critics of "elitism" oppose open admission on prin­

tapings have moved out of town. Union rates ciple. Surely, thi_s is a wa~ of breaking down drive businesses away. elites? Education provides the last real stamp of privilege in our society, and it would be pleasant to extend it to everyone all the way up through college, as New York has tried to. But in New York's present situation, this ambition has become self­defeating. 
The city will not save money, even after getting rid of the free-tuition measure until dwindling enrollments lead to faculty dismissals' and the closing down of some facilities. That is going to hurt, in a number of ways. faculty out of work will still draw unemployment checks until they are driven from the city. Some buildings will go to waste. Janitorial help will be cut back. Students turned out on the streets will cause more police and welfare problems. 
But until New York becomes less desirable to those who draw on its services without contributing anything, it will con­tinue downhill, so that it increasingly serv:­ice no one very well. It is overcrowded, undersupported, and on the brink. 
It can no longer be a model for other 
cities. It is an exception, and should be 
treated as such. The regimen on a lifeboat 
is not the pattern for a good society; but 
without such regimen no one will survive to 
rejoin normal society. 
Immigration to New York should be discouraged; strict residence requirements for welfare should keep out those who are not self-supporting. The lifeboat cannot pick up any more people just now. If the nation as a whole suffers from over­population and pollution, New York has a special version of every such problem. It has dofl.e too much too fast for too many. Hs resources were not inexhaustable, and it must learn to cut back, slow down, settle for less. In that way it may, after all, have a lesson to teach the rest of us. It is ex­ceptional because it has all of the nation's problems , rich, large and concentrated; and the nation is watching with concern to see of New York can cope . 
JOHN .IIPAM~ HAS PRI»f!SWA STI/Q?JN6 IQEU/JMY-IT f)()(1JMfi{T! H& ~>S P.KJI/t:iJ SUM 7HAT THAT 7Ht RI6H75 ANP 
/Q()f<J< ON 7H£ !JE­PRIVIU613S OF AU M&N CtARATlON IS Witt, ~ st.a/R&{) IINP PROCEtPING 6U.4RAN'ff£l)! 
AI¥Jc&! 
\ 
' 
• 
BOOI 

~Gid 
OH, YtS?1116U..,IIIHAT~ 
7Ht t3R£AT JOHN APAMS HAVt 71JS4YABafT 7H& l?f(jl{"5 OF 7H& 07HCR. HAtF fFAloERICA-ON THAT 
7H& IIKJNeN/ lfJINT, Ht/S \ I?ESOtUT&i-Y 
SllCNT. 
" 


seriausly, falks 
God bless little old ladies 
art: buchwald 
PARIS--What happened to all the little old ladies in tennis shoes? I am happy to report that they are alive and well and most of them are on package tours in Europe. 
Because traveling .has become so expensive, you do not see many Americans on the continent any more. 
Occasionally a bearded kid with an American Flag on the seat of his pants may walk by your cafe table, but it isn't like the old days when there wasn't a corner of Europe that didn't have a "U.S. Go Home" sign. 
If it weren't for the little old ladies in tennis shoes, no one would be aware that the United States still existed, and it makes any red­blooded American's chest swell with pride when he sees a batallion of them marching down the Champs Elysees, Piccadilly or the Via Veneto to the . tune of Colonel Bogie's March. 
Make no mistake about it, the little old ladies in tennis shoes still strike terror in the hearts of every tour director in Europe. 
Most of the ladies are veterans of previous overseas tours; ex­perienced in hand-to-hand combat at flea markets; versed in the skills of fierce haggling in souvenier shops; trained to assault churches and museums, and prepared for sneak attacks on any American Express branch in the country. 
The cemeteries of Great Britain, France, Italy, the Benelux, and Scandinavian countries are dotted with graves of tour guides who expired trying to keep up the pace set be these indomitable souls. 
At airports all over Europe you see fresh young guides barely out of college, wearing their tour uniforms waiting nervously for their group to jump off the plane and encircle the city. Screaming "We take no prisoners," the little old ladies , carrying their. duty-free shopping bags from the previous airport, climb aboard their buses determined not not to miss one single thing included in the high price of the tour. 
No mountain is too high for them to climb, no fjord is too wide for them to cross. Heaven help the guide who forgets to stop for tea in Zermatt (included in the package) or leaves out a church in Montmartre. Let a waiter skip a salad ·course in Salzburg or a cheese plate in Brussels , and he'll get a karate chop he'll remember for the rest of his life. 
In the last 30 years Europeans have seen their countriP-s invaded by American, Japanese and now Arab tourists. But none of them has ever shown the strength the moral fiber or the staying power of the little old ladies in tennis shoes. 
Why do they ,do it? Why, then most Europeans have lost interest in tourists, when waiters and concierges and shopkeepers have become more surly, when most things are cheaper in the States, do the ladies keep traveling abroad? 
The answer came from a little old lady sitting next to me at 
Fouquet's. "Someone has to carry on," she said simply. 
"The young people' can't do it because they don't have the money; the middle-aged people can't do it because they don't have the stamina. If it weren'tforus little old ladies in tennis shoes, no one would remember what an American looked like. We've all taken a vow that as long as we can climb the steps of the Piazza di Espagna in Rome' or wade in the beaches of Monte Carlo , we will see that the sun never sets on an American tourist. Besides, I promised my grandson a sword from Toledo." 
I almost broke into tears. Two years ago the American traveler ruled Europe from Gibraltar to Helsinki.Our traveler's checks were coveted from Dublin to Istanbul. There wasn't an arcade in Venice' or a bazaar in Athens that didn't have a sign "English Spoken Here" Those were the golden days for Americans, and we may never see them again. 
So let's hear it for the little old ladies in tennis shoes. God bless 
them for showing the Flag in the 01~ World. As long as they have 
the money and the time , and the grandchildren, the spirit of 
American tourism will never die. 





Thursday July 31, 1975 

T e CIA-gate 

rJarry wills 
Newspapers are no longer given the "Times," were ridiculed and flatly denied--Richard Helm!>', William Colby, and Henry president's fate does not hang on each new 
breathing space of a holiday "silly season." as those contained in the Washington Kissinger. This time the sitting president is bit of testimony. But the consequences of Last summer, the serious business of a "Post" were ridiculed two summers earlier. clearly innocent of wrongdoing. But the 40 this investigation are arguably even more 
president's impeachment kept reporters We were told that thousands of dossiers Committee had the ultimate authority over important. A whole pattern of government away from the beaches and crowded them were not involved, that there was no actions in Chile and elsewhere; and, for all arrogance, going far beyond one ad­into hearing rooms. The summer before, "massive" domestic spying. purposes, Mr. Kissinger was the 40 Com­ministration's vindictiveness, is coming into the Watergate revelations were being made But even the protective Rockefeller mittee. 
view. A secret bureaucracy of violence and 
and confirmed. Commission found thousands of infractions-There are even echoes of the last two deception has been nurtured in the dark for This summer, each day brings more , -and more are being added daily by the summers in reports now surfacing. Ac­a quarter of a century. The pressuresevidence of CIA wrongdoing-more letters Senate investigators. Illegal mail openings cording to the Nicholas Horrock story in the against its ever seeing daylight were im­
opened, more drugs administered, more alone now number 68,000, admitted by the "Times," President Nixon told the CIA that mense. Perhaps the secrecy would have leaders plotted against, more dummy CIA. money was no object in the efforts to oust been impenetrable but for what we learned corporations set up. It is like Watergate in a From flat denial, defenders of the CIA Salvadore Allende from the Chilean in the Watergate investigation. In that number of ways--each revelation leads to have retreated to minor quibbles about the presidency. Remember the same man's sense, Watergate may have been a blessing
other enormities. meaning of "Massive Illegality." Ianswer to John Dean's guess that a cover-up in disguise.There have been some false leads, as in And even that ground is being abandoned. It would take a million or more in hush We should question power, and especially the Watergate case. I never took seriously is like the sequence that moved from money? It was the same as Nixon's secret power. Our government should be the charge that Alexander Butterfield was a mockery of Watergate as a third-rate response to Richard Whalen, during the 1968 accountable, checked, wrJtched over. All 
CIA spy in the White House, for the simple burglary attempt to a series of holding campaign, when the high cost of a special that was clear to the framers of this nation. 
1reason that the charge was said to emanate actions and attempts at containment. We TV broadcast was raised--money's no A rediscovery of such truths is the most 
from E. Howard Hunt, who long ago lost found out from the White House tapes how problem. Not when you really want appropriate way of celebrating the nation's 
contact with reality. scared and desperate were the men under something. And Nixon badly wanted birth. It can lead, if we have the nerve and 
But, despite these false leads, the same investigation, while they tried to maint~in a Allende's downfall, just as Robert Kennedy honesty, to a rebirth. There is nothing silly pattern we witnessed in Watergate has been confident air in public, counterattackmg. seems to have wanted Fidel Castro's. 
about what is going on. 
repeating itself in the CIA investigation. We may presume the same busy effort and These summer revelations have not been 
The original charges, in 
BY 
ANOIN!iW AMY, 7RY YOU, 700, NAT& 1rJ UN/JtR-HARRIS! AM 
GTANP-MY I 70 RIJN 
CO(}NTR.Y THIS rAR.M 
N££/JS M£/ BY MYS£/..F 
\ ~V&R?! \ 
~;.­
:IU TCU 'trJ{J /J/1{,4T-/liNEN 7115 IS AU OV£R., OH, NAT£.. J'U 81/Y YOU I LOV/3A SLAV£/ YOIJl 
' I 
New York fear are at work, right now, in men like as dramatic to the public as last year's. A 

BUTAMY-IT's OH, I ONLY FOR A KN()(JJ,NAT13.. LITTt£ LONGER.. IT'S JUST 
I .. I..
y ~ 
Atu,AMY.. 5HOVWN'r IS ALMOST IJIITH­H/I.R/J /J/ITH­
IN/Jt:PeNoma THAT IT's 
{l)MP/..A/N, IN ()(JR. R.liACH I ()(JT YOtJ, 
V 
IMSORRY, 
I K/ti(J{U.. ·~ \ THAT'S AU.... I 
\ 
AMY, HAVt '!(}(}S££N 
MY CIPY rF ''coMMON S£16£"? r11/ANr ro REA/J A /.JTTl.& 8£flJRE I a:Me 7/') EEIJ.. \ 

buchwald 
Arrivederci Roma 
tcant.) 
""Don't go to Rome," I was warned. "Everyone is on strike." It was of course an exaggeration. When I got to the Leonardo Da -rinci Airport they were only having a slowdown, and it took me two hours to get my luggage. 
"You .re very lucky to get in," the taxi driver told me. The 
airport employees are always going out on strike. They're very 
unhappy. The other day they went out on a strike to protest the 
bad service everyone at the airport was getting. All the passengers 
had to find and carry their own baggage." 
When I arrived at my hotel, I was handed a slip of paper. 
"The employees will go out on a strike from 10 o'clock until 4 
and from 7 o'clock in the evening until 11. We hope you will un­
derstand." · 
A friend picked me 1 up in a taxi. "I would pick you 1Up in my 
car, but it was stolen Rome has the highest number of auto thefts 
of any city in the world," he said proudly. "Forty-two thousand 
were s~len last year, and only 7,000were recovered." 
"Where are we going?" I asked him. 
"To the Vatican," he said. 
"Are you taking me sightseeing?" 
"No, I have to mail a letter. The Italian Post Office ha!' had so 
many strikes that the only safe way to get a letter out of the 
country is by way of the Vatican post office. They set a special 
mobil lounge in St. Peter's Square just for mail. It's been so 
successful they should be able to pay all the costs for Holy Year." 
"Rome sounds like a lot of fun . " 
"It is " he said. "The beauty of the city is that things have 
gotten so bad we don't k'1ow when people are on strike or not, 
because you don't notice any difference in the services." 
"Why are the Italians always on strike?" I asked him. 
"Oh, everyone has a different reason. The post office employees 
went out because nine of their fellow workers on night duty were 
suspended for bringing their cots with them and sleeping through 
their shift. 

"I was at the Turin Airport last week and tried to check in with 
a couple of1 hundred people including families, nuns, children and 
businessmen. The clerk looked out at us and said, 'There are too 
many of you and there is too much confusion. Basta!' And he and 
the six other clerks walked off leaving us stranded for four 
hours." 

We posted our letter and then went to a cafe. "The Italian IRS 
has been on strike for five months. But it was their own fault. They 
made a big mistake when they let the IRS clerks read the returns of 
the chauffers who worked in their own ministry. The clerks 
discovered they were making 200,000 lire while the chauffeurs 
made 800,000. This got the clerks so mad they went out >n strike." 
"How can they keep going?" I asked. 
My friend said, "The Romans are the greatest survivors of all 
time, and they're very well set up for strikes. The telephone 
company even has anumber.wou.can call, and they'll tell you who 
is on strike so you can plan your •day around it." 
"That's a good idea," I said. 
"It is, except every once in a while the people who run the 
service go out on strike." 
The waiter finall~ brought ' tour coffee, after a half-hour. 
"Is he on strike?" I asked my friend. 
"There's no way to tell," he replied. 
My friend told me his favorite strike story. It had to do with the 
crew of an Italian Lines ship that had struck to get the same food as 
the passengers. The line gave in to the demands. A~ lunch they 
served the crew melon which they planned to give the passengers 
that night. The crew members said, "But the melon isn't cut. The 
chef must cut the melon." 
The chef was called, out of the kitchen, and he said, "1 spit on 
your melons. I only cut the passengers' melo~s." 
In protest the crew took their melons, up ~ deck and dumped 
them into the sea. 

"Things are getting so bad here," JllY friend said, "that all the 
American companies are pulling out . " 
t

"What/ about the Italian companies?" 
"Oh, they left long ago." 



the observer
8 


I USB 
IUSB Student Association meets 

The IUSB Student t\ssociation vestigating Committee have also met on Wednesday, June 16. suggested that the Student Among the items of business was Association. committees be open the report of the Student In-for more say by the students," and vestigating Committee on Student be "organized for more ef-Commissions. ficiency." 
The Student Investigating Committee has suggested establishing guidelines for the Student Association committees. Among the committees to be established are: the academic committee, the athletic com­mittee, the economic advisory committee, the social committee and the student investigating ~ommittee . 
The SIC has also suggested that all committee meetings be made public, with at least forty hours advance public notice of meetings. Members of the Student In-
In other business, Student Association President Jerry Works reported the decision on the student softball dispute. The dispute arose when team leader Brent Hansen accused another team of using illegal players and double hitters. This incident has been reported earlier in the paper. 
There are three games in question, which the athletic board has asked the team, led by Mr. Barret, to forfeit. 
A decision was made by President Works, in conjunction with the athletic commission, over the awarding of trophies at the end of the season. Works has decided not to award trophies for the teams in the regular season. There will also be a review of the rules before the summer tournament. Trophies will be given for the first and second place teams in the tour­nament. 
In his report to the Student Association, President Jerry Works announced several vacancies in Student government positions and nominated people to fill these vacancies. His nominations were approved by the Student Association. 
Judy Newton, former Justice of the IUSB Supreme Court, was 


Folklore added to -· fUSB curriculum 
by Judy Smith IUSB Editor 
Robert Cochran's interest in teaching Folklore has brought it back into IUSB :urriculum. The course is in the offering for text spring, according to Cochran. 
Folklore is a discipline in itself. Within 'olklore there are many categories. :::ochran 's interests include Folklore \thletics, a field in which little research has >een done; Material Culture which is :oncerned with artifacts, or objects made >y people; and Folk music, in particular ­3lues music. 
The course is called "Introduction to \merican Folklore" and is a basic course. :::ochran has his' students read different lOOks pertaining to the varieties of ~merican Folklore-musical, material and 
erbal. 

"Verbal Folklore has been the traditional enter for Folklore studies. I think this is hanging. For years Folklore has paid nore attention to Verbal Folklore than nything else," said Cochran. 
All the legends, jokes and songs with tries are considen.: verbal folklore. According to Cochran, Folklore is not as 
... 
istant as some students think it is. "All of s are to some extent folk creatures. We are arriers of Folk beliefs." 
People think of Folklore as something istant. "The first thing I try to do in the ourse is to remove the idea of distance and take them see themselves as carriers of 'olklore, and creators to some degree." 
Cochran believes any group can be ·eators of Folklore. To some degree udents as a group identify with each other. ny group that is aware of itself is going to eate Folklore. There is going to be 
t 

1guage practices which are peculiar to 1t group and vocabulary elements which are not going to be understood by people outside that group. They are going to have stories about courses and talk about things like good and bad schools which are going to be peculiar to that group. These things institute folklore. 
Occupational Folklore concerns itself with th~ peculiar customs of different oc­cupational groups like firemen or truck­drivers. 
"I'm interested in understanding what sort of things about a figure like Daniel Boone who has been totally mythologized and turned into a folk here, make him such a figure. You can find a lot about the people who are turning him into a hero simply -by noticing what aspects of his character they modify," said Cochran. 
You can find out things about the national 
character, in the kind of people who become 
heros," Cochran said. A contemporary M It. It I 
hero, Howard Hughes, is an example. "It is interesting to ask what it is about Hughes that captures the imagination." 
Other examples, according to Cochran, are athletic heroes especially 1 the athletes who go out publicly for a presidential candidate. It is a fact that people pay at­tention and look up to these people, although they are outside their occupational com­petence. 
"We imagine a kind of life of all stars ­athletic, movie stars, and it is a lifestyle that we envy. The life we imagine for them is the life that we admire." said Cochran. 
Apaper is required for Cochran's class on a topic dealing with original Folklore research. One crucial ooint, he has found, is a sort. ofundistinguishable\boundary/between Folklore and popular culture. 
Cochran believes IUSB is a good place to teach Folklore studies because it has a diversity of students who have many dif­ferent backgrounds. 
First 

elected to the position of Chief .Justice, filling the vacancy left by AI Segress. Her appointment left a vacancy, which has been filled by Hank Perteria. 
The resignation of Social Commissioner Ann Nashe was announced by President Works. Dick Clark was appointed to fill the position. 
Nancy Yokum, President of Parents-Plus, has been elected to the post of Day Care Com­missioner. 
Works also commented in hls report to the Student Association that the problem with long­distance calls being made from the SA office as well as the disap­pearance of eauipment from the office, woula' be dealt with severely . 
A clairification was made in the President's report on the state of the Northwest corner of the building, which is currently under excavation. Works reported that the contract for the repair of the corner is under the same bid as the parking lot, and the same con­tractor would handle both. 
In other business, a motion to establish a committee which will investigate the election of a parlimentarian for the Student Association meetings. The parliamentarian will be elected from outside the senate. Members of the investigating committee are Terry Hoffman, Elmo Gonzalez, Bill Bailey, Brent Hansen and Les Senour. 
student 
Court to be 
The first Student Supreme Court case of the 1975-76 academic year will be heard on Saturday, August 2, at 10 A.M. 
The Ad Hoc Committee under the Student Association <DAl petitioned a case against the Publications Board (BPB), which ;epresents all of the publications at IUSB. 
The Ad Hoc Committee declares in the petition that the PB violated Article 4, Section 5, PartE of the Student Constitution. 
Section 5, PartE reads: "Decisions of the Publications Board shall require three votes <majority) with the exception that no Editor-in-Chief may be reappointed for a second academic year without five votes." 
The PB has five members, including the Preface editor and the Analecta editor. One of the members is elected by the student body in the general elections. The other two members are appointed by the SA. Mantea Kapatan, chairman, is the elected board member. Maureen Gillen and Robert Hosier are the appointees to the board. The two editors were chosen at the end of Spring 1975--Carla Hoffman, Analecta editor and Judy Smith Preface editor. 
The court -case stems from the PB's decision on the two editors. The Ad Hoc Committee claims that the board was reappointing the editors for a second 
Supreme held 
academic .year. For a reappointment, the 
PB reqUires that the members vote 
unanimously on an editor. 
According to a reliable source on the board, the editors were not chosen for their second academic year (1975-76), and therefore, were not reappointed. Hoffman and Smith were filling out the past editor's term of office in the Spring. 
The Student Supreme Court consists of a Chief Justice, Judy Newton, and four Associate Justices. The Justices were appointed by the President of SA, Jerry Works, and were approved by two thirds of the Senate. 
The court requires both parties to submit a petition of violation or defense to the court. 
During the proceedings, each party is limited to 30 minutes. Then, the court goes into executive session to deliberate a decision or a precedent. 
In 1972-73, the Supreme Court made a precedent on a similar case. This was the case of SA vs. Alice Marie Beard, then editor of the Preface. The precedent was in her favor. The court decided that Beard did not need all five votes of the PB because there were persons who had a personal vendetta against her. 
u I c u u r a workshop concentrates on S: B ethnic groups 
A three-week workshop in mU-lticultural education for area teachers, based on the ethnic heritage of major components of the South Bend area's population, will be taught starting July 28 at Indiana University at South Bend. 
Dr. Richmond E. Calvin, assistant professor of education and director of IUSB's Ethnic HHeritage Studies program, will teach the graduate credit course. It is based on the Ethnic Heritage program which focused on the community's Hungarian, Polish, Afro-American, Mexican and Italian ethnic groups. A series of articles on these groups, derived from the program, is appearing in The South Bend 'frivune's Michiana Magazine. 
"Emphasis in this workshop," said Dr. 
Calvin, ·"will be on the development of strategies for creating an awareness and knowledge of current thought and per­ceptions of ethnic heritages. The course is designed to expand humanity through cultural-pluralistic curriculum materials." 
'The course will develop a model for in­tegrating ethnic studies materials into university, high school, elementary and pre­school courses. It will identify culturally­pluralistic materials, including films, slides, tapes, books, articles and artifacts, along with persons in the community who can be used as resource persons. 
Additional information can be obtained from the education division offices in Greenlawn Hall on the IUSB campus. 

Thursday July 31, 1975 I
the observer 9 
~  
l  
Wright  works  to  be  exhibited  August 30  l I l I  
I  
I  
Drawings and paintings by Harry Wright, IUSB fine-arts major, will be on exhibition in the Library through August 30. A self-portrait of Wright is included in the exhibit. He sa1d he used the old method of painting for the portrait. First he made a  touching. It's completely a hands off thing so you are really totallv exoressing everything with your eyes and hands too in a sense when you are trying to do eye and hand coordination and trying to capture what is there and putting it on canvas. It's a real obsessive thing. It's almost if you want what is there here. It is never the  or drawings. The reason, h~ said, is because the exhibit was on univeristy property and he would feel funny in doing so especially since· the Library was so kind to let him exhibit his material. Wright suggested that IUSB should have a class in Art evaluation. He said it is hard to figure out what a painting is truely worth.  Painting, according to Wright, is looking at it and not so much painting as looking at It and then being able to respond to what you see. "I don't think most people understand that. Most people think you look at something and paint it immediately," said Wright.  I I I I j j I  

same."

careful drawing on paper and then tran­
According to Wright, there was supposed

sfered it to the panel with light carbon. 
to be a student exhibit at the Art Center this 

Afterwords, he outlined it in paint and then 
year like in the past. The Art Center,

went into the rest of the painting. 
however, said they had no schedule for it.

Wright has many figure studies on 
He said the other galleries in South Bend

exhibit. Most of them are of Nancy 
were too small to hold the exhibit. Delores

Kromewitter, a popular model at IUSB. 
Davisson of the Art department asked

There are some male nudes and a few 
Wright if he wanted to exhibit his paintings

female nudes. There are not many female 
and drawings in the Library.

nudes, he said, because he sold many of 
"Paintings take so long. It is more of a

them prior to the exhibit. 
complete involvement than a drawing.

"I have gotten into portraits quite a bit 
But, a drawing is more important than a

because of the psychological aspects of the 
painting. A drawing is a skeleton of a

portrait," said Wright. "In a way it is kind 
painting."

of like making love to a person that you 
"I think I feel more about my drawings

paint with your eyes. Because you are 
than my paintings because drawings are so

carressing their features with your eyes, 
essential and basic," said Wright.

vou are totally exploring it visibly -not 
Wright did not put prices on the paintings 


House Painting 
DOES YOUR HOME NEED PAINTING? EXPERIENCED PAINTERS (TWO N.D. GRADUATES) WILL PAINT INTERtoR­EXTERIOR 
VERY REASONABLE!! 
CALL 234-1889 For Free 
Estimate 
CHECK OUT 
HOPS N' SPIRITS 
THIS WEEKS SPECIAL 
6 PACK OF COKE IN CANS 994 
FOUR POPULAR BEERS 
AT FOUR SPECIAL PRICES 
WE SELL KEGS AT THE CHEAPEST PRICE. IN TOWN 812 E. LASALLE AVE. 287-2581 

J 
I
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• I 
• 
You expect more from Standard : I 

• 
d . • I 

• 
an you ~ 1t. TM I


•

• • I 
:at FLOYD'S STANDARD SERVIC~f..: I I
• 2830 Uncolnway West STANDARD • l 
: Mishawaka, Ind. ~~_, : ~ I
• Phone 255-0552 vw Service and Used VW Parts • 
I 
: Inspection on Foreign and American Cars • 
i 
l 
• V W for SALE -Complete Car Repair -: 
,.••••.......................... 

PlAYLAND GOLF QNTER 
Open dawn till 10:00 pm 
f HOLE • r~ 3 GOlf COOlS! Driving Jong• 
lOCATED US 33 AT I~OHWOOD 
LITURGICAL SCHEDULE 
SACRED HEART MAIN CHURCH 
June 23 through August 3 
MONDAY THRU SATURDAY. 
8:00 a.m. MORNING PRAISE IN THE LADY CHAPEL 
11:15 a.m. CONFESSION 
11:30 a.m. MASS 
5:00 p.m. CPNFESSION 
5:15 p.m. MASS 
7:00 p.m. CONFESSION 
7:15 p.m. EVENSONG •N THE LADY CHAPEL 
(EVENSONG ON FRIDAY WILL BE CELEBRATED IN THE ..GROTTO) 
SUNDAY. 
9:00 a.m. MORNING PRAISE IN THE LADY CHAPEL 
9:30 a.m. MASS 
10:45 a.m. MASS 
12: 15 p.m. MASS 
, 

7:15 EVENSONG IN THE LADY CHAPEL 
--------~-------.... 
Thursday July 31, 1975

10 the observer 
~­
Eagles:· Not one of their nights 
revrew by fred graver 
You may also ask why I spend so much 
Watcha had there, Thursday night! 
~ime I?" reflections about the group, almost 
at the Eagles concert, was your typical 1gnormg their actual performance. Well, boogie-get down-play some rock and roll their actual performance didn't leave much crowd. The group itself was an element in to think about, aside from reflections about the scene, but certainly not the crucial the group. A string of off-the-record element, the focal point. As a matter of fact, arrangements is rarely known to inspirethe group wasn't even the catalyst for the accolades. Even if they had tried some new 
event. It was a concert, and these people stuff' and done it badly, for my money it were going to have a good time no matter would have been a more exciting per­what. formance. 
And the Eagles knew that. At least One thing I did realize as I watched the they've learned it from a few years of Eagles string together their hits Thursdaytouring. They don't play for keeps. They night: it is very possible that one day ( or play pretty songs, sing nice harmonies, keep one of these nights, if you prefer) they are 
the sound system clean, and hope that no going to write the quintessential crusing one causes any trouble. song. They combine just the right blend of 
It was one of the most normal concerts open air a_!ld driving rhythm in their I've ever been to. Disappointing, because melodies to do it, and from their past the Eagles are one of my favorite groups. material they show a unique grasp of the As musicians, they are excellent craftsmen v~riou_s subtlties of the art of crui~ng.who sometimes raise to the standards of L1stenmg to 01 '55 , a song about dnvingartists. Their songs, ranging from the away froin disappointment, (or, as Glenn plaintive love ballads, .to country and Frey put it "for all of you people who had 
western~ to rock and roll, display a mastery one of those times when you didn't get----­of a wide breadth of American music. -)' you realize that this is the first song 
But perhaps I should have expected it. display of the pitfalls of their success for-"Southern California" means sweet bar­written about driving as a way to ease the Because, despite of their excellence on mula. Instead of trying new material, of re-moni~s, clean musicianship, bright, bouncy pain of living. Other songs, like Take It album, it has always been true that the working the old material, or challenging the tunes and general acceptance of the norm, Easy (co-written with Jackson Browne) Eagles are at their best when they sing of listener, the Eagles go about making people then the Eagles are right there. Right have such an incredible ebullience to them 
tho.•e things which are alive in the American feel glad they're at a concert (though they alongside the Beach Boys and Chicago. that you just want to "step on the gas and suburban consciousness. Their songs, don't particularly assert that it is their "So," you may ask, "what's so bad about wipe that tear away." <Anyone that can largely, reinforce the idyll of A!J1erican concert). feelin' good?" Nothing, except that for five rhyme "Standin' on the corner" with west, of the joys of cruisin,' of going out and or six dollars a ticket, I think that people "Winslow, Arizona," has got to be a genius.) having a good time. The Eagles are most deserve more than just musical formulas, The Eagles came and went at the A.C.C. successful when they go about the business People are placing the Eagles in the patent medicine. Groups like the Band, the· Thursday night, and I only hope that the of making people feel good about where they "Southern California" bag of musicians. I Allmans and the Grateful Dead have been complacency that crept into their per­are at, be it living in suburbia or living in a tend to dislike categorizations, but from making people feel good for years, while formance doesn't influence their careers as commune. what I saw it would seem that the band is still maintaining a high musical integrity. recording musicians. 
Art exhibit and sale to be held Aug.3 

The fifth annual Notre Dame Art Exhibit and sale will be held on Sunday, August third in O'Shaughnessy Hall, according to Mike Kitkowski who is handling publicity for the event. The sale and show will include works done by students mostly during the summer session. 
The show, which will be held from 1 to 5 
p.m. will include prints, ceramics, sculp­ture, paintings, photQgraphy, drawings and many other forms of art. "Most of the works will be offered at a modest price," said Kitkowski. He also added that most of the students participating in the event are graduate students working for their masters. 
Displays will be set up in the main 
corridor of O'Shaughnessy Hall, while the 
exact number of artists participating in the 
show is as yet undetermined. Kitkowski 
noted that members of the public who are 
interested in the show and or sale should try 
to come as early as possible. "Many of the 
artists will put out one of a kind prints so 
those interested in these works should come 
before they are sold," he said. · Kitkowski, who has participated in past 
sales, pointed out that he sold quite a bit of 
his work in the past and hopes to do the 
same again this year. "It's a good idea to 
have this event because the best com­
pliment someone can make to a work of art 
............................................................................ 
MAC'S RECORD RACK f
$1 OFF ~ 


ALL I Beatie's I LP's I .~ 
I
ANOTHER 
SPECIAL I 
NEXT WEEK 
I 
288-1178. I 
A FULL SERVICE RECORD STORE4 
NEXT TO RIVER I 

2923 MISH. AVE. PARK THEATRE J 
is to buy it," he said. 
Jim Connolly is a graduate student at Notre Dame and will also participating in this year's show. "I will be presenting silkscreens and lithographs that I have worked on during the summer and also during the past school year," he said. He noted, as did Kitkowski, that much of the art will be sold at a reasonable price and this would be an ideal time to pick up either gifts or something that can be used for a person's personal enjoyment. "The show will be offering something for everybody's taste; we'll have everything from modern to realistic art and everything from small to large," he remarked. 
Professor Don Vogl, a teacher in the art department who has been working with the students on the show, commented that many of them will be asking prices for their works that will only cover their expenses. "It will definitely be cheaper than going to any gallery to buy art because in this process we have managed to cut out the middle-man," he said. 
Also at the the sale will be two artists from the "Ceramics Workshop" which has been running all summer. According to Vogl, the number of artists participating has been decreasing over the years. "It is up to the public and all local art lovers to help us make the show and sale a success., so that it may be repeated again next year," he said . 

NNOW APPEARING I 
PURE D FUNK U 
'IIRIIII'--BIIBIIIIII._.UUI'"'''"••slllll 


WHITE HOUSE 
WITH DAILY SPECIALS ­
MON •. & WED. "DRINK & DROWN" 
TUESDAY "TEQUILA NIGHT" 
THURSDAY "PITCHER BEER NIGHT' 
SUNDAY "LADIES NIGHT" 

2839 N. 5th St. NILES 
BARLO PLAYHOUSE 
"FANTASTIKS" July & ~August AT TINKERS DAM 
· MICHIGAN CITY, iNDIANA 
RESERV. (219) 879-7373 

. •I 
Thunulay July 31, 1975 

the observer 11 • 
Parish family picnic ... a summer happening 
by Bob Kissel 
In the pre-Bicentennial year of· 1975 finding ways of celebrating American and its Americans, sans commercialism, can be quite frustrating. 
But then one could look to a part of America that comes once every summer for those interested ... the parish family picnic. 
Now take that summation of the Catholic experience and transpose the scene to Chicago, Mayor Daley's playground. Add a cast of parishioners from a North side Chicago Polish parish and there's fun for everyone. 
The basic ingredients of the picnic are a Forest Preserve grounds, beer <and plenty of it), Kielbasa, corn on the cob, watermelon, large families, and most importantly a 16 inch Clin­cher softball, the only respectable game in Chicago. 
Now the record must be set straight for those who are non­Chicagoans. The game of soft­ball in Chicago means 16 inch, if you wish to speak of another branch of the main game, like 12 inch slow pitch, then specific references must be used. 
Softball (by now which game is implied should be rather obvious) is such an integral part of the workingman's life, from boyhood to manhood, that women's leagues are now in vogue for the wives who used to watch the gam,es or stay at home with the kids. 
Back to the picnic. A funny thing about every Forest Preserve in the great city of Chicago is that every open field always seems to have that basic diamond arrayed pat­tern of dirt spots--the bases and pitcher's mound. 
But at the family picnic, the game is for fun, at least that's what everybody says, young and old alike, but really, who likes to lose? To insure the good time of all 
players  involved,  frequent  and  
quite  essential  beer  breaks  are  
taken, about every inning.  

Many games are contested during the course of an afternoon parish picnic, teens against teens, little folks against their parents, mixed husbands and wives. The common element to all these 
0 
groups is that satisfaction of squeezing home a long fly to deep center (remember softball is played with the bare hands) or connecting on the sweepof the bat for a solid double. 
But all the games are a preliminary for THE game... a game for males only, matching the age-ripened veterans, the fathers, against the young, upstart bucks of the parish, young men from the high school and college ranks. 
The typical lineup for the vets includes a cross-section of the working force in America. Frank, a plumber by trade and president bf the local Serbian VFW; Bell, an electrician who has mastered the fine art of hesitation pitches and spinning floaters; Kelly, the dairy man by occupation and a true-blue beer drinker by avocation-he even wore a T -shirt over his massive middle which said 'Beer Belly'. 
The young bucks team, well they have not really had the virtues of experience long enough to play all the subtleties of softball. The kids just go up to the plate and swing, not really considering all the vitals like who is on what base or where 

*1.1Ed.Qg,~~rver
Foundt>d November 3, 1966 

Fred Grover Editor· in·Chief Andy Proschok Associate Editor Ed Pawlowski Advertising Monoger Judy Smith IUSB Editor Bob Tracey Ad Layout Candy Fronkovelgio Production Manager Sue Zwick Production Monoger 
Chris Smith Photo Editor 
Kate Bernard 0 Production 
Tony Proscia Columnist 

News: 283-1715 Editorials: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Thursday July 31, 1975 

"Summer of Stars" makes 
• 

season prem1er in Chicago 
landmark for Chicago with the rest
by Dave Dreyer 
of the country's summer pop Among the last ten or fifteen sum-music places. Washington Park, 
mers, many cities have become known for their outdoor summer music festivals. In Milwaukee, it's the Summer fest. In New York, it's the Schaefer Music Festival in Central Park. Clinton, Michigan is where the famous Pine Knob Festival performances take place. The latest of these phenomena is the "Summer of Stars" running its 
first  summer  in  the  Chicago  
area.  
Sponsored jointly by  AM  rock  

giant radio station WLS and Triangle Productions, "Summer of Stars" is bringing the most popular pop writers, performers, and lyricists in the U.S. to Washington Park, an expansive race-track in Homewood, Illinois, on Chicago's far south side. Already this summer, the festival has seen performances by Gordon Lightfoot, the Bee Gees, Tony Orlando, Joan Baez, Arlo Guthrie, Roberta Flack, and James Taylor, to name a few. In the remaining six weeks of its schedule, Summer of Stars will feature Harry Chapin and Janis Ian <Saturday, July 26), The Eagles, America, and Three Dog Night, among others. With much variety of style, the festival has still managed to retain a common mode of low-key melodic music, for which all the stars are noted. 
According to a spokesman for Triangle Productions, this sum­mer festival was constructed as a "one shot deal", although the promoter's' aim is to establish Summer of Stars as a yearly in order to be outfitted for the concerts, purchased a complete sound system from Frank Zappa, the zany jazz-rock guitarist for the 
Mothers  of  Invention,  and  an  
excellent  showman.  What  has  
resulted  is  one  of  the  finest  

acoustical displays that one could hear in any large concert. With the excellent sound, all of the shows are marked by the setting sun, easily seen by the concert­goers in the flat Chicago suburbs. Only one characteristic mars the Summer of Stars: high ticket prices. What has made the other leading summer musicfests so unique has been the small amount of money paid for tickets coupled with the outdoor flavor. But at Washington Park, tickets range from $5.50 -$8.00, depending on 
who is playing. 
The past two weekends featured Joan Baez -Arlo Guthrie -Hoyt Axton on July 12 and James Taylor with Emmy Lou Harris on July 18. Baez's concert was disturbed by 55 degr_e,e temperatures and rain, but it just added to the atmosphere created by this extraordinary lady. 
f.Cter Hoyt Axton's set of talented and humorous tunes, Arlo Guthrie took the stage with just a guitar· and a piano and delivered a very rich and moving collection of songs including "Swing Low, Sweet Chariot", "City of New Orleans," written by Chicago's Steve Goodman, and a Scott Joplin piano rag. Combined with his witty and charming personality, it left a very mellow, folky feeling. And Joan Baez complemented that feeling. Playing a new style now, with less politics, more new music, more sophistication, and a fine band, she ran through two hours of music, showing that she is now the musician first and orator second. The crowd, made up of people from early teens to young families to grandparents, huddled under umbrellas to hear her fantastic voice and watch a pink and scarlet sunset. Afterwards, they brought her back for two encores, the last after the house lights had gone on and the stage dismantled. 
Last weekend brought James Taylor to the same stage and he delivered an equally impressive concert. Helped by another pretty sunset, a full moon, and the Apollo­Soyuz astronauts passing over in full display in mid-concert, he charmed the large crowd with a terrific mixture of his best old material and his newer albums. His back-up band was extremely well .,rehearsed and executed ex­cellent accompaniment. With the soft wind in his hair, and frequently glancing at the full moon, Taylor showed a voice and sense of humor that could not fail to entertain. 
In short, the Summer of Stars at Washington Park is a very good idea for Chicago, and has proven itself to be worthwhile. If ticket prices can go down as well as the sun, then it has the potential to be established as a continually rare and rewarding experience for anyone interested in music and-or fine summer entertainment. 

the pitcher has his weak spots. 
Trying to hit a 16 inch blooper special may sound as easy as downing that first cold one, but when the ball comes over the plate on a rainbow arc with an extra dose of spin, the task becomes one of wait and hope for a reasonable pitch. That is if the batter isn't called out on strikes. 
For some reason this year's featured game wasn't even close, the young horde of Polish hippies stung the vets hard, 19-6 in seven innings. 
But after this highlight of the picmc, sometimes referred to as the Polish Woodstock, young, middle-aged, and old alike retire•: for another beer break, this time long one. 
Maybe there's a mor somewhere, between second a1 third base, but probably not. Mo like a good group of people gettil together over beer and the one a only softball, 16 inch. 
If you ever come to Chicago stay or just to visit, all the action on softball diamonds, across t. city. So practice squeezing that Clincher. 

RACING EVERY TUESDAY NIGHT 
SOUTH BEND MOTOR SPEEDWAY Time trial at 7:00 p.m. Race at 8:30 p.m. 
Track located 3 rriles west of So. Bend on Western Ave. 
~-...............................................,.,.,....,.,,.,...~"1
I AN ICE CREAM SPECIAL ~ 
I BUY ONE HOT FUDGE SUNDAy J ~ AND GET ONE FREE ~
I AT :with this coupon) r 
I FARRELL'S ICE CREAM PARLOR • 
I SCOTTSDALE MALL 291-3800 f ~................................................................................................~ 
1

·--------------------------i
END OF SCHOOL SPECIAL l 
INSTANT CREDIT 

-BEFORE YOU GO ~ HOME GET-t
DICK'S i 
1 ~~· ~Free 011 Change~J ~ ~~~~~~ with Tune-Up • 
OiiMotor 
ON ll A • I
E . CORBY club A mencan cars 17/ /lt. WRECKER & 1
0

/ I;~ ROAD SERVICE ~ 0 PE~.~~NT A~~co~~ 1 
MOTOR TUNE-UP$_:_ sTuDENTs AND I BRAKE SERVICE • .;-_ FACULTY I WHEEL -DIAL I 
ALIGNMENT "0:\.-S,\T. 7am-llpm I Diclc Kruk · Owner 234_0707 
SUN. !I am-9pm
1102 So. Dend Ave. I 
South Bend, Ind 46617 (Discounts not applicable to 1 1 specials.) 
J 

~------------------------­
CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 

10 SPEED "Scorcher". $75, only has 130 miles on it. Call 2TJ..7857, noon to 8 P.M. 
66' CHEVE LLE. Great engine; good transportation. $100. Call Dennis at 1094. 
FOR RENT 

2 ROOMS, $40 per mo. Gir!~ .\lt connd. 
7!;19 

HOUSES AVAILAABLE for summer or fall near campus. Good condition. 
234·6519 

TW0-3 room apt. Newly decorated. Wood panelled. Fully carpeted. All utilities incI uded. $1~ per month. First month •s rent and security d ep. No pets. Ca II 291-5750 or 287-8509. 
NOTICES 

THE DISTILLERY Liquor Store. 1723 S. Bend Ave. Needs 1 part-timer. Must be 21 and available thru coming school year. Apply In pen;on. 10-3. 
ACCURATE, FAST typing, $.~ a page (double spaced). Call Mrs. Donoho at 232-07-46. 
INTERESTED IN no-frills low cost jet travel to Europe, Africa, Mid die East, Far East at minimum co st. maximum flexibility and minimum hassle? For Information cal' Educational Flights toll.free (8001 223-5569. 
PERSONALS 
To the Huddle Beauty, 
Thanks for the aggravation. 
needed it. 

The Aggr1111ator. 
Mr Hartigan: (caught 
vou peeking In on my classified 
adsI) I got nowhere with mom & 
dad on the stereo. Any ,suggestions? ·-Candy 
Big A & Dr. NRF: If you can't lean, vou gotta hint. Right? Rotten Kid 
grace: 

may the gull of happiness fly carefully over your car. guess what? I have returned II parking 
field 2, robert moses, next sunday. I'll even pay toll. your h.s. buddy 

\ 

\ 12 the observer 'l'llunday July :u, 1175 
Nashville: The loss of innocence 
review by Adele O'Grady 
If there is any city in American freedom. effort of the third-party candidate, political manager from California. her ever-present tape recorder. where dreams of success are At a time in our country's history Hal Philip Walker, to enlist the So the political machine enters The character provides a realized and crushed with equal when corruption in politics is an support of major country and the music fantasyland of Nashville humorous perspective through the repidity, it is Nashville. If there is almost all-eonsuming interest in western stars in the city of Nash-hoping to sing some financial juxtaposition of her overly­any one field\ that captures the the public eye, it is a brilliant ville for a political rally. The third-support into the political coffers. descriptive language within the essence of the American ideal of stroke to examine a slice of party nominee is never seen. He is With great dexterity, Altman sets simple visual context. "overnight success" and untold American society which is not represented by a brightly painted up the characters and premises of Moving to an airport greeting fame, it is music. In "Nashville", political in nature, but can be used van, decorated gaudily with the film in the first sequences. In a scene for the returning queen of Robert altman holds the mirror up stickers, which cruises the streets deceptively simple fashion Altman country music, Altman deluges our to America on Ute eve of her by politicians and, more im­of Nashville, diligently spewing interplays twenty-four characters, senses with massive doses of bicentennial. The reflection is one portantly, allows itself to be used. political verbiage from an insistent from chauffeur to country and Americana: high school bands, of frustration, violence and loss of The main thrust of the plot is the loudspeaker, and by a slick young I western stars to groupfe to news reporters, cafeteria 
aspiring star to old men. His film groupies, autograph seekers, stars is a rich interweaving of images addicted to the public, and sounds. The opening scenes "unknowns" hungry for 
show Haven Hamilton, a major recognition. This sequence is country and western star, followed by a traffic jam, caused recording a song for the bicen­by an accident on the thruway as 
tennial, "The Last Two Hundred the wrowd leaves the airport. Years." · The belligerent, self­Here, we are able ot observe righteous attitude of "we must be almost all of the characters ap­
doing something right to last two pearing in the film reacting to an hundred years" rides easily with unexpected situation. The device all Hamilton's retinue, with the 
of mutual disaster works 

exception of a piano player named beautifully, exposing characters in Frog, a 'hippie' who is finally an incisive manner. dismissed by Hamilton's comment In this impressionistic, "you don't belong in Nashville." naturalistic slice-of-life, Altman Only certain people and ways of exposes us to many characters at life are acceptable here -love it or once, without oversimplification. leave it. The actors and the director paint 
Contrapuntal to this recording each moment with sure, bold session, in the next studio, is a strokes and through simplicity group of bla,ck gospel singers, led create a depth of perception. 
by a white suburbian housewife. Altman's technique is superficially The gospel singers, joyously amorphous, yet there is a tight rocking out as they record, provide interlocking of people and events. a sharp contrast to the controlled Joan Tewksbury's script and session down the hall. Here, Altman's interpretation mix already, are desperate elementsof irony, humor, mystique and pathos 
Nashville. skillfully to create a powerful specific image which conveys
A BBC reporter is introduced at truth about the larger society
these sessions, and she appears enclosing Nashville.
throughout the film,. Making a documentary on Nashville, she In this world of music, 
records facile, often absurd, im­stronghold of fame and money, the pressions of the Nashville scene on lust for success is great, appearing 

SOUND MASTER'S 
BUY OF THE WEEK 

Kenwood KR1400 
The Receiver Music Lovers on a Budget Love Best. 
Kenwood put quality sound reproduction within reach of the 


C-iGLENBURN 
most modest budget with this fine AS2AX better by design
receiver that delivers excellent 
AM, FM, and FM Stereo reception The AS-2AX acoustic suspension
and amply provides for a full system fits right into crowded The Glenburn 2110A automatic 
stereo system. With plenty of spaces and limited budgets--with turntable comes complete with 
power to drive your speakers with clean, full-dimensional musical Shure M75 magnetic cartridge
minimal distortion. The KR-1400 renditions rivaling those of larger with diamond stylus, base, dust 
provides a control center for more costly units. The 8" high cover and all cords ... ready to plug
Phono, Aux, and Tape, with a compliance woofer delivers free in and perform in full stereo. This Tape-source Monitor Switch to let flowing bass with authenticity and all-new design is the smoothest and you check recording quality. The power. High musical tones are quietest in its class. Has full size KR-1400, in fact, performs so well, c~isply reproduced and widely turf!table with mat, cue and pause, its designed so beautifully, and dispensed by the sensitive 3lh anti-skate, super-light tracking
incorporates so.". many little extras, direct radiator tweeter, featuring and tripping ... all features only 
no one would ever guess its Low, an Alnico V magnet and9-16 voice found on turntables costing much 
Low, Price. coil. more. 
,... ~¥atch For Our 4 Channel & Stereo Records at 
System Price
fheLow.estPricein Town ~ming Soon" 
.. 
Only $279.95 
EASY FINANCING 
.. r~·~ at Hickor·y Rd. IAIIKAMERICARD. . 
-

~ South Bend I Phone 232-2430 

• 


in varying degrees of intensity. It destroys from within and without, as with the young waitress, Sueleene Gaye, who, to get a break, is bribed into performing a striptese at a fund-raising dinner. Altman explores a recurrent theme in the American arts, the loss of innocence. Here in Nash­ville, there is no possibility for innocence or vulnerability to survive. Those who have reached the top, seemingly virginal, like Barbra Jean, face destruction. 
Assassination and its effect is a major consideration in the film. The death of "the Kennedy boys" is seen as a deep wound, still unhealed because the causes of violence have not been uprooted. It is the BBC reporter who com­ments that "it is the people who carry guns that are the guilty, for they cause the innocent to finally pull the trigger." It is not in­dividuals who are responsible for violence but the collective in­dividual. In America, psychic and physical violence has become a way of life. 

The final scene catapults the I vision of American values into the . context of history. The politicai 
rally takes place in front of Nash­. ville's duplicate of the Parthenon, : draped with an enormous . American flag: two symbols of the 
world's most potent democracies. Somewhere in time, the principles which created those symbols have become distorted, even lost. The late image in Nashville is a long shot of the the parthenon which pans up, looking into the sky while the crowd sings to avoid con­fronting the tragic assassination which has just taken place before their eyes. It is reminiscent of Tolstoy's metaphor of the sky in "War and Peace", symbolic of all things unrealized on earth, as well as silent judge of the destructive chaos perpetrated by mankind . The uplii cing action of the camera is Altman's optimistic note at the end of the film, rai&ing our eyes to the heavens to escape what ap­pears to be incomprehensible. 












