
server 
-st. mary's college 
Wednesd•y, September 10, 1975

Vol. X, No.6 


by Martha Fanning "The salary rate of the university falls in the fortieth 
Starr Reporter percentile of all Class One unviersities," Press ob­
served. "That means that sixty per cent of these The Faculty Senate held its first meeting of the 1975­
colleges pay higher faculty salaries," he concluded. 
76 year last night receiving two final reports and hearing from various committees. Professor Kenneth Goodpaster explained ideas of the A lengthy discussion dealt with the Retired Faculty Student Affairs Committee in regards to grade in­
Committee's report. This committee, chaired by flation. "The committee is preparing a questionnaire Professor James Danehy, presented. the report to be to be distributed possibly to the faculty for in­·•accepted and sent to the Administration, Board of formation. This information would then be submitted Trustees, retired faculty members and appended to the to the faculty Senate." 
September 9, 1975 minutes." 
Prior to the distribution of the questionnaires, they
The purpose of the report was to determing the Itotal will be presented to the senate for approval.
situation of retired professors, so that the retired professors themselves, continuing ·faculty and ad­
Another issue this committee might explore is
ministration can consider what might be done by a 
student representation of Faculty Senate committees. 
cooperative effort to improve human situation of the retired faculty. The question of the effectiveness of the current 
The discussion dealt predominently with method of teacher evaluation is being taken up by the recomendations to the University included within the Faculty Evaluation Committee. Headed by Mr. Bobby document and points of clarification. Farrow, the committee will look into issues such as the 
A proposal dealing with the minimum amount of villidity of the evaluations, possiblerevisions and how money a retired faculty member should receive drew the evaluation can be used. 
the most comment. Speaking on Committee for Appointment and 
Professor Peter Brady cited the present pension of Promotions <CAP>, Professor Joseph Tihen proposed a 
5,500 dollars including other income as being "out of meeting be held with Acadmeic Council members 
date." and -Department chairmen before the CAP Proposal 
The revised suggestion requested the university to comes up at the Acadmeic Council meeting. 
guarantee people who retired from Notre DaJ?e "Our proposal will not be excepted wholeheartedly, 
faculty to receive seven thousand dollars a year With at least not all phases pf it, by the Acadmeic Council," 
other income included and provisions made for cost of Tihen noted. "Such a ineeting could take care of ad­
living increases. Other pro~sal~ recommen~ed vance questions and ideas could be exchanged in 
continuing retired faculty on mathng hsts, and makmg regards to the proposal," he explained. 
them .ele~ible to serve on the Faculty Senate. Other business included a report on the Executive 
Committee's summer correspondence by Faculty
Approval of the report, except for one section to be 
Senate Chairman Paul Conway. Father Theodore
discussed, was voted on by the senate and passed 
Hesburgh, in response to one of the letters will meet
without dissent. 
.vith the Executive Committee at an undetermined
Several standing committee reports were laso heard future date..
during the course of the meeting 
The minutes of the May lst"Faculty Senate meeting 
Irwin Press, Faculty Affairs Committee Chairman, were also discussed and approved. 
discussed the faculty salary situation. He stated that The report of Collective Bargaining was introduced 
Notre Dame is still approxiamately twelve hundred near the end of the meeting. The senate ,postponed 
dollars below other top ten schools in regard to !iscussion of the report, however, due to the late hour. 
salaries and six hundred dollars behind .peer schools A special meeting called for Thursday, Sept. 18 to deal 
named by Fr. James Burtchaell. with that 1report was suggested and approved. 
C.O.U.L. panel evaluates Student Affairs 

Editor's note: The Committee on The committee sent its report to Undergraduate Life, C.O.U.L., the Board's Student Affairs was created by the Hoard of committee last May where it was Trustees last October at the considered but not officially acted request of a group of student on. leaders headed by SBP Pat McLaughlin. It looked at problems In the third of a five part series and strong points of five an•as of Campus Editor Pat Hanifin looks undergraduate life at Notre Dame at the report of C.O.U.L.'s sub­and suggested possible ways of committee on Student Affairs. Improving the quality of life here. 

Reimbursements offered for dissatisfied customers 
company acknowledged the firm has encountered a great deal ofby Sue Carey 
Staff Reporter trouble in returning the storage to 

Students wishing to file claims for campus, but blamed the students reinbursement of lost or damaged for a lack of concern for the safety property from the summer storage of their property. : program must do so directly with "We can't hire a security guar~the Bekins Trucking Company, to keep the students from stealingaccording to a company from one another," the employee~
representative and the Student who wished to be unidentifiedJ Union Services Commission. commented. "If they couldn't finq The unexpectedly large volume their own things, many of theJ 
of material mvolved in the storage just took someone else's." program this year caused the According to the truckin difficulty in returning items company source, students had th~ 
promptly to the correct owners. option of takin~ out additions 
Although most of the storage has insurance on thelr belongings, bu 
been returned and claimed, the few did. The company claims tha~ 
Student Union suggests students most of those whose property wa 
who are still missing some of their misplaced had failed to pick it u 
~roperty check near their halls and at the specified time of delivery~
IRt Stepan Center before reporting The Student Union urge 
a loss to the trucking company. students wishing to file a· com 
Campus Security did collect many plaint to contact the Bekin 
of the unclaimed items, but all of Trucking Company at 272-5450. 
The preliminary report of the One critical problem the com­deserves a serious attempt at Student Affairs Committee con­mittee found regarding the Office solution. "The persons working centrates on two main topics, the is a contrast between student within the structure should not administration's Office of Student views of the Office and ad­only be capable adminstrators ... Affairs and the Student Life ministrators' views. but should be persons who possess Council. The committee sought Many students have "such the qualities needed to work with answers t.o the Questions: 1) feelings as powerlessness, im­and for students." "What can be done to raise the potence, bitterness, and anxiety quality of student and University towards Student Affairs the report More concretely the report life in the coming years?" and 2) noted. The Office is often seen as recommends that "there be an 
internal self-evaluation of the'What can be done to merge the an "adversary whose task it is to 
academic and non-academic', make life difficult for students". Office of Student Affairs as to the learning experience of a Notre Many students tend to "equate" clear identity of the various 
departments within; to the
Dame student?" the Dean of Students with the clarification of needs met andwhole office.
Mary Clare McCabe, director of those not answered; to the
Perhaps tlhe most severe
student staff development and a suitability of the persons charged
criticism which students have of
member of the committee, ex­with particular responsibilities; to
the Office is that there is, as the
plained that "as informed com­the evaluation of stated goals met
report claims, a "lack of student
munity members we were,trying to and not met."
input and influence in matters
find out what things would raise which touch their lives."
the quality of life here to a really 
The vice president of student
new plateau that we have never 
affairs, on the other hand, claims
before reached." 

that "it is the desire of the Office .. 
She pointed out that the com­. to seek dedicated, talented, and mittee was under a time limit. generous staff members to assist "This is really just the beginning in the growth of the students in and we stress that the report is those areas of vital student life only preliminary even though ou~ outside the regular academic members spent tremendou achedule." amounts of time looking into th He talks of providing issues." "guidelines" for community living McCabe claims that the Student 

and a hall environment conducive Affairs Office has "made The committee broke itself up/ to citizenship and learning. tremendous progress and im­into smaller groups to concentrate. Other student affairs ad­provement even since the report on • the two major topic areas. ministrators stressed aiding "out came out last May. We have been Members reflected on their own of class live experiences of the constantly moving and experiences with the Student students" and providing an reorganizing and I am excited 
Affairs Office and the SLC, looking "unobtrusive support system for about things that have happenedinto records, talking with people student life" tlhe rePOrt says. this year like freshman orientation 
involved with the organizations and hall organization."
both from the inside and from the Recommendations Student advisory groups are an 
outside, sent questionaires to excellent idea, she feels, and1student affairs administrators,· The committee argues that McCabe hopes to have one workingand discussed the issues within the student feelings about the Office with her on student developmentcommittee. for long hours. are a serious problem which programs this y~r. 
\continued on page 3) 

. r 
2 
the observer Wednesday, Se ''"'~ \~_, 1??5 


warld briefs 
BANGKOK, Thailand (AP) -Prince Norodam Sihanouk, the onetime playboy who led Cambodia for nearly three decades as king, premier and chief of state, returned to his royal palace from five years' exile on Tuesday as the nominal head of the Communist­led government. There was no indication what role the popular and mercurial leader would play in the \new government. 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. <AP)-School officials reported attenldance climbing in a sampling of Jefferson County schools Tuesday, a generally peaceful fourth day of courr-ordered busing to achieve integration. 
WASHINGTON <AP) -The House Tuesday voted over­whelmingly to override President Ford's veto of a $7.9-billion education bill, a move expected to be duplicated by the $enate. 
The House vote was 37 to 41. Only 36 Republicans and 5 Democrats voted against the measure Ford described as in­flationary, budget-busting and "part of the trend over the past several years-a little more for every program." 
WASHINGTON <AP) -AFL-Cio President George Meany Tuesday oredered longshoremen voluntarily to resume loading grain on ships bound for Russia after President Ford pledged to try to work out certain agreements with the Soviet Union. 
To buy time for an assessment of the entire Russian grain 
Situation, Ford extended the present moratorium on new grain 
sales to Russia another month until mid-October. 

an campus taday 
wednesday, september 10 
12:15 pm ·· seminar, "mlcroflora and lipid metabolism", by dr. bernard wostmann, rm 102, galvin life sci. ctr. 4:30pm --lecture, "structure of van der waals molecules", by prof. klemperer, rm 123, nleuwland. 4:30pm--carney, picnic and carnival, south quad. 6:30pm--meeting salllng club, rm 303 eng.bldg. 
7:30 and 10:00 pm--movie, serplco, eng. aud., st. 7:30pm--meeting, M.E.C.H.A., MECHA office in Iafortune. 

'Nazz' opens Friday 
by Fred Herbst With an increased budget form 
Staff Reporter Student Government, Shaheen hopes to remodel the coffeehouse which also doubles as the home of 

Dave Shaheen, co-director of the "Darby's Place". 
"Nazz", yesterday announced Shaheen would like to expand the plans for the coffeehouse's opening type of entertainment offered by 
this weekend. the ''".Nazz" 1. this year. "Musical 
The "Nazz", which \sJQCate.d. in acts are welcomed, but we're also the basement of · LaFortune ~e ·looking for things like drama and Student Center, wiJr open this poetry reading," Shaheen said. 
. Friday night featuring the en­Anvone interested in performing tertainment of John Steinman, Bill at the "Nazz", should contact 
Mahn and Dave Shaheen. Joe either Shaheen at 8406 or Dennis Klockemper, George Adello and O'Brien at 1245. 
Mark Hopkins will perform on On Thursday night at 7:30, there Saturday night. Performances will be an organizational meeting will begin at 10 p.m. on both nights. in the basement of LaFortune for 
On Wednesday nights, "Jazz at anyone interested in working at the the Nazz" will return for its second coffeehouse. year. Shaheen noted that this is Shaheen observed that "In the the most popular night at the past couple of years at Notre 
coffeehouse. Dame, there hasn't been a place 
"Music is the prime thing\at the for people to go and relax. At the "Nazz". There~s a 1ot of'really "Nazz' we hope to create a place good campus entertainment, and with a real easy atmosphere, this is about the only place it can be where you can bring a date or just 
said. ~ome and listen to music." 


IN CONCERT MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM SAT. SEPT. 20 SPM 
ALL SEATS RESERVED $5 -$4 -$3 
tickets on sale now at morris auditorium box offi.ae 11-5 suspended chord -elkhart&goshen 
record joint -bell plaza niles 
· ..
" " • • • \ I ~ ' ' • ~ '· ' " 
.. ' .. " .. -.. 
! t •. t , I • t. • • ~ I t ' I I 

Trubac named to head special buSiness managementprogram 
The appointment of Dr. Edward Syracuse University. He has Association. 
R. Trubac, associate professor of recently been engaged in research Trubac was named "Teacher of
Finance at the University of Notre on the economic impact of private the Year" in Notre Dame'sDame since 1960, as director of the colleges and universities in the graduate program in businessInstitutional Adminis tra tion 
State of Indiana and has published administration in 1972 and 1973. He:Program: in the College of articles in the Review of Social has also served as president of the
Business Administration has been Economy, Journal of the Catholic Dame of
Notre Chapter the
announced by Brother Leo V. Hospital Association, and Journal American Association of R~an, C.S.V., dean. of the National Catholic Education U ProfP.ssors. 
The summer graduate program leading to the degree of master of science in administration is designed to provide professional training in business and ad­ministration 1for laymen and members of religious communities and others who have respon­sibilities for managing nonprofit institutions. Trubac will succeed Dr. C. Joseph Sequin who was named chairman of the Depart­ment of Mangement at Notre Dame. 
The Institutional Management Program is "unique in the nation" observed Dean Ryan, "because it is structured to develop proficient managers for the nation's hospitals, schools, homes for the elderly and other organizations and institutions." .. An un­dergraduate degree in business administration is not required for admission to the program, which provides sufficient depth in the basic areas of management, finance and accounting. 
A specialist in business 
WITH THE STUDENT 
I
forecasting, Trubac received a 
bachelor's degree at New York's 
I
Manhattan College and his graduate degrees in economics 

IN MIND 
I
and ublic administration at 
The Observer is published Monday 
I 
through Friday and weekly during 
I 
LITERS OF BEER AND
the summer session, except during 
I 
exams and vacation periods. The Observer is pubI ished by the students of the Univ. of Notre 



ICENTIMETERS OF PIZZA I
Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 10 dollars per semester (18 dollars per year) from The Ob­server. Box Q, Notre Dame, In­
I THE BACK DOOR I
diana, 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
·----------------­


FREE 
while· supplies last 
· 
1 



Notre Dame -Saint Mary's Canvas Book Backpacks 
when you open a First Bank checking account 
Exclusively at First Bank, you can get one of these handy canvas bags in either Notre Dame's or Saint Mary's school colors with the school emblem em bossed on it. 
Constructed of strong canvas with double-stitched stress points, this bag can be carried or worn on your back while walking or biking. And its contents will be protected in any kind of weather. 
Just start a checking account at First Bank. Once the account is opened, your backpack will be mailed to you. As an added bonus, we'll send you our useful "New Friend at the First" student kit. This kit furnishes you with information about the Michiana area ... including a city map, transportation schedules, motel-hotel lists and rates, and lists of local restaurants and used furniture stores. 
·Sign up today ... supplies are limited.. 

FirstBank 
With you•••all the way 
Another service of FBT Bancorp, Inc. Member F.D.I.C./Full-service bank 
© 1975, First Bank & Trust Comparw of South Bend Time & Temperat~~e: Call 234-7 ~ 21 

-.·.·,·. ~-..·.: ,; ;, ) .. "' .. '' ... ';,..,. 
, f • : ,. ' . ~ 
. .( ~ 
. ......... ­

Wednesday, September 10, 1975 the observer 
Stanford-Keenan cited in COUL report 
Paczesny comments on coed proposal 
activity sheets kept in U1e HPC • • office in the Student Gov( rnment : : 
complex. c 


h b d • 
In conjunction with this calen-: T e 0 server nee 5 reporters :
dar, the HPC plans a new form of • • 
by Kathy Mills Senior Staff Reporter 
€oed housing is not impossible at Notre Dame. 
Bro. Just Paczesny, vice­president for student affairs, said last night coed housing "will come in time." 
"I am confident and optimistic for change in the future," Pac­zesny added, "but when we do it, we'll do things right." 
The administrator conceded that 
Students Affairs evaluated 
(continued from page 1) "They could 
also  help  in  brainstorming  and  
coordinating  projects,"  she  
pointed our.  

J<'urther, the SLC could have an advisory and contact role with the whole Office, she noted, "if it returned more to its original conception.'' 
Student Life Council 
This "renewal to origins" as the report puts it, is the committee's main advice to the SLC. 
Increasing communication between students, faculty and adminstrators was a key reason for creating the Student Life Council in the first place and "deliberation and information­sharing are as important as tur­ning out a 'legislated' product," says the report. 
The tripartite membership of the group can make possible "more creative and effective responses" to common concerns. But to do this the Council needs to develop "shared goals" and a spirit of cooperation between the members. 
Junior Class Vice President Darlene Palma, a committee member who sat on the SLC last 

Lists plans 
HPC plots course 
by Lonnie Luna Chairman Elton Johnson and 
Staff Reporter Executive Coordinator Bob 
Quakenbush listed plans for the 

The Hall Presidents Council organization. The plans include an <HPC> plotted its course for the official HPC calendar, an in­upcoming academic year at its formation service and a new in­first meeting last night in the centive for hall competition. LaFortune Ballroom. 
These plans are intended to 


better-inform the HPC and general student body, according to Johnson. The information service, under the supervision · of Quakenbush, will serve as a reference center for halls desiring specific information and not knowinll where to obtain it. 
The HPC will also maintain an
official calendar of hall activities. These activities will be based on 
interhall competition this year. It : will award a traveling trophy to • the hall that gives the best • example of hall spirit or sponsors : 
the most activities. The trophy will •
be awarded monthly. : 
The HPC, as are other • organizations on campus, is busy : preparing for the upcoming year. • 
The HPC is an integral part of • 
Student Government, Johnson : said, and is composed of all hall • 
~!~~~~ts on the Notre Dame: It is intended to be an open, • 
coed housing will be discussed to a coed living in Stanford-Keenan is great extent this year "especia,Uy shared "by just a few people." along the lines of the CO'UL "The whole problem about coed report." This report from the dorms is the facilities," he went Committee on Undergraduate Life on. "It would be great if we could proposed the implementation of have a dorm built -to meet the coed living in the Stanford-Keenan concept of coed living." Just also Halls complex. mentioned the possibility of in­
"The proposal will have to go cluding a coed graduate dorm in through the Student Life Com­the new graduate housing com­mittee and through the Board of plex. Trustees," Just explained. He "At the time of Fr. McNally's observed that the main question is proposal last year to make Grace whether or not a favorable view on Hall coed, we were not ready to 
' 
year, cited her own experience as support of this recommendation. 
"It was only when we got away from playing roles like 'senior student' or 'Dean of Students' that we really started talking to each other. A feeling of cooperation instead of separation is essential if any work is going to get done." 
The committee made two major suggestions towards creating cooperation: "We recommend that an annual live-in, two-day retreat be held before the SLC convenes in the fall" to enhance its "group life" and feeling. 
Secondly, the SLC should more 
often use resource people from 
outside itself to study in depth 
particular issures that come 
before if rather than spending long 
hours arguing over details.! 
Palma notes that this would give 
SLC actions more weight with the 
community because community 
members would be more involved 
in making the dicisions. 
One significant change in the Council this year is a reduction of the number Jf membersfrom 24 to 15 to speed up the decision-making process. Palma expects that this will improve its working but emphasizes that "the SLC will have to go out and reach the people affected by its decisions-_ too many times students show no interest in what is going on." 
Due to the lack of time tfre committee was able to go into somedetail only in two areas but it supplemented its report with a list of other "crrtrcal categories which are sorely in need of exammation." 
Perhaps the most crucial of these is the general decision­making process of the University. The report criticizes ad­minstration decision-making for being secretive. Student opinion surveys "often indicated 
resolution of misconceptions only after decisions were etiher ex­plained or the process by which they were arrived at was revealed." 
Few students, the report said, claimed to have seen such revelations. 
The report also brieflv cited"deficient attitudes"' amonj;! community members concerning socila interaction,and rules governing alcohol, parietals, and sexulaity pointing out that these are a major source of bad feeling between 'students and ad­mimistrators. A careful study of these issues might at least clear up poisonous misunderstandings, the committee felt. 
Revival? 
Because of the importance of the unfinished business it is possible that the group may get together again. 
"The meetings were extremely beneficial and profitable," McCabe said, "and I would be happy to continue them again this year." She felt that since C.O.U.L. was a student suggestion in the first palce any attempt at lr·evival should best come from students. 
Palma agreed that the subject matter was "just dented" and that a follow-through is needed. However she suggested that the follow-thru might best be handled by the new SLC. 
"I also expect that Ed Byrne will be going to the Board at the next meeting to keep the C.OU.L. report in front of them," she said. "We would not want things to end here." 

...................................................................... 
:

• Freshmen• :. 
: : 
convert any halls," Paczesny commented. 
Fr. Thomas NcNally, former rector of Gr,ace, proposed to convert the hall to a coed dorm by allowing women students to 
observer 
inhabit one section on each floor of the dorm. This proposal was sent to Just and to the Committee on Undergraduate Life. 
According to Paczesny, a special committee chaired by University Provost Fr. James Burtchaell considered this proposal, and McNally received· a reply on the idea from the committee. 
After discussing McNally's proposed plan for coed housing, COUL dectded not to endorse it. Rather, the committee endorsed the Stanford-Keenan proposal. 
"I do not feel that we were selling out the students by not endorsing the Grace proposal," stated committee member Mary Ellen Keenan. 
"The Stanford-Keenan idea is much more feasible. It can be accomplished more quickly, more economically, and it is more in keeping with the character of Notre Dame," she explained. 
The COUL report claimed, "Because Keenan and Stanford are separate and complete residence halls connected 
common areas, the conversion to a coedecational residence center could be accomplished with no changes to the '.physical structure except to secure the common areas to prevent aft,er-hours traffic." 

insiaht: 
McNally remarked that the implementation of coed living in Stanford and Keenan "might be a good first step. It may quelll some fears about coed living." 
"It remains a very gooa idea for a couple of halls on campus to have coed living," he said. '"However, the plans mu&t be carefully evaluated and 'thou~ht out." 
McNally added that ne thought there should be some criteria set up to determine which students should be a part of any coed housing experiment. "The students should be evaluated before, during,and after the ex­periment. Of course, they must be serious about it," he commented. 
"Coee living can create a better social climate for male· ~d female students in a positive and healthy way," he contended. McNally said he felt encouraged by the COUL report recommendation. 
McNally claimed that • he had not received any reply about his proposal "from anyone", and added, "I don't think I've ever received a from Bro. Just." 
: 
• • 

New5 Staff Meet••ng . : 
: • 
•

T • ht t 7 • : 
0 nIg a p.m. : 
i• 

in the Observer office 
• 



MUSICIANS: 
(Groups and Singles)' 
If you would like to be included on th•et 1976 Student Union list 

of pttrformers, 
Please contact Dave Shaheen 8406 

::r~~e~~~te:n~~~~:rsi~~ i on top of the top floor of LaFortune !
Chairman Elton Johnson of the 
Notre Dame campus community, : •
Hall Presidents Council listed 
plans for the upcoming yur at the he added. The HPC elects the • All d ld h ld •
chairman every April, his dutieS : neW an 0 repOrterS S OU attend :
first meeting last night. CPhoto by 
beginning in May and continuing • •
Paul Joyce) 
through the following May. "••••••••••.,-••••••••• ••••••••• •••••••••••••••••••••..••••••••••••...: 

4 the observer w........ , ,..,......,. "· '"' Members' reactions vary 




Gay students respond to TIME cover-story 
7-lOpm 

1-2pm 
by Don Reimer Senior Staff Reporter 

Members of the Gay Students of Notre Dame have expressed a variety of responses to the Time magazine cover story on homosexuality which appeared in the September 8, 1975 issue. 
Pictured on the magazine's cover is Leonard Matlovich, a sergeant in the Air Force who has recently received national at­tention for his legal challenge to the military's ban on homosexuals. The seven page article surveys the political and social activities of gays, emphasizing changes that occurred since Time's ground­breaking 1969 story on the beginnings of the gay movement. 
Included in the recent article are numerous qu'ltations from gay activists, psychiatrists, lawyers and theologians interviewed by magazine researchers. 
"I liked the pictures more than those in Time's story several years ago," said one member of the Gay 

Pagna resigns as Alumni head 
by Mary Mungovan 
Staff Reporter 

Tom Pagna·, former Notre Dame 
assistant football coach, will 
resign as executive director of the 
Alumni Association effective 
October 1, 1975. 
Pagna explained he has "much 
respect for his job and position" in 
the Alumni Association, but he is 
not ready to spend the rest of his 
career as its director ,The decision 
to resign, said Pagna, "was ex­
tremely difficult." For Pagna, 
"There is only one Notre Dame," 
and he is reluctant to leave after 
his 12-year association. 
Pagna's successor will not be determined until the 19-member Alumni Board meets again on the .weekend of Sept. '1:1, 1975. Pagna came to Notre Dame as offensive backfield coach in 1964 with Ara Parseghian. He has been in­strumental in the development of players like Tom Clements, Joe Theismann, Bob Gladieux, Terry Hanratty and Nick Eddy. His association with Parseghian g_oes 
Deadline set lor concession stand assignments 
Fourteen locations are available 
for concession stands at home 
games, Fr. Bill Matthews of the 
Student Activities office an­
nounced yesterday.
Groups interested in having a 
stand should submit a request or 
call the Student Activities office in 
LaFortune by Wednesday, 

Sept. 17 at 5 p.m., Matthews said. 
A lottery will assign dates and 
places and lottery winners will be 
notified by Sept. 19. 
In the past, several clubs have 
complained about groups who win 
the lottery but never use the stand. 
According to Matthews, there is a 
new policy for no-shows. 
"If a group does not show up for 
their allotted time, they will lose 
all dates they have won in the 
lottery for the remainder of this 
for next Students of Notre Dame, "because there were several of people in comfortable, natural situations." 

Another member 1: ~~ ¥.00, addingthat "it was gratif:ri.11g to see Sgt. Matlovich, who is nc~ <>xactly a stereotype, picture... ~·· Time's cover." This same student, however, felt that the article was oversimplified. Admitting that it might satisfy the curiosity of straight society, he insisted, "just imagine how inadequate a seven page article on heterosexuality in 1975 would be." 
Some members of the Notre Dame group were less favorable in their assessments. "I felt that the authors devoted too much at­tention to the kinkier aspects of gay society _" commented one group member. "There was not enough emphasis on the positive side, on the many groups workinghard to promote freedom and equality for gays."
.A question was raised by one student as to whom the article was 
' 
1 
back to 1954, when he played under Parseghian at Miami of Ohio and was chosen most valuable player
his senior year. After a peiiod of professional football with the Green Bay Packers and Cleveland Browns, Pagna joined 
~~qhiM's staff at NM­
thwestern in 1959. 
When Parseghian resigned in December, 1974, Pagna did not wish to continue coaching under any other head coach. The following February, he assumed the position of Alumni Association's executive director. 
As yet, Pagna has made no definHe decision concerning future plans. He is considering either returning to football on the professional or collegiate level, or pursuing ~ eareer in business. In past years Pagna has received 
CAPRI LIQUOR STORE 
At the corner of Ironwood and Ed ison (Rear of 



WED. SEPT. 10 THURS. SEPT. 11 
ENTER THRU SOUTH STAIRWELL 



ka not picked up by 2:00 D·m~~ Thursday, Sept. 11 will becom• property of the Student Union. 

addressed. "If the article was written for gays then _it was useless because they already know about its contents," he said. On the other hand he posed, "if the piece was written for straight people it seems to be almost malicious towards gays in its remarks." 
Another student objected on the grounds that the article, "treated gays as outcasts and morallep~rs,
when, in fact thousands of gayslead simple, quiet lives and are not as hung -up as some of would like to thinK." He pointed out that, "gays are not looking for converts, but merely justice and the chance to live as human beings." 
The conclusion of the Time ar­ticle was termed "paranoid" by , one group member, who stated, ''It · appears that many people still cling to the inappropriate fear that the passage of civil rights for gays is intimately associated with the undermining of the family structure." 
This notion becomes in­creasingly absurd," he con-
coaching offers and has done considerable lecturing and writing on football. He holds a masters degree in education and is ex­perienced in personnel management and organization. 
When Pagna assumed the directorship of the 53,000-member Alumni Assocation in February, 1975, the position had been vacant for several months. Pagna updated the schedule of class reunions and 
Alumni Club Activities. He planned. to start a Mini-College Program the summer of 1977 and group tQurs to be conducted with other schools. Pagna sees the prospects of the 1975 football season under Dan Devine as good. According to Pagna, "The per­
sonality of the team is an extension 
ofthepersonalityofthecoach." He 
feels Devine has the nucleus of a .good team and the Notre Dame 

tinued," because psyclto-socialevidence consistently reveals that human sexuality preferencepossibly by the age of five, probably by the age of six, but definitely by the age of seven. We cannot 'create' more gay people; we may, ' however, help those who already experienc~ a homosexual preference to find themselves." The Gay Students of Notre Dame 

have indicated that this quest for personal identity is precisely the function of their organization. As they begin their second year of weekly meetings, they invite any members of the Universitycommunity who wish to receive further information to write to 
P.O. Box 206, ·Notre Dame, ln. 46556. All serious inquiries will be answered confidentially. 
Wednesday, September 10, 1975 _ 


film fest features ingmar bergman 


Things are where they are, why bother to rearrange them? But if only one wishes to find truth, one must have a moral viewpoint. A critical judgement is a necessity. 
-Rossellini, in Cahiers du Cinema, 1963 
The Cultural Arts Commission's film series, Cinema '76, is based upon the critical judgement of its organizers, and their rearrangement and selection of the best pieces of cinematic art into one series. Faced with "educational" film on one side and the purely entertaining on the other, the fims series, under the direction of Sean Coleman and Laureen Goers, strives to obtain motion pictures which synthesize the 
INGMAR BERGMAN'S 

two extremes. While some films are notable for their actors and directors, others for their technical achievements, and ·still 


CRIESAND 

others for their themes and story lines, each movie to be shown this year shares an element of excellence-~ach is an example 
WHISPERS 

of cinematic and artistic success. 
ROGER CORMAN presents

In order to 'Cover a wide range of film 
A NEW WORLD PICTURES RELEASE ~ 

genres, the series has been divided into four broad categories: Early American Cinema, European Cinema, Contemporary Cinema, and one Festival each semester con­centrating on a single actor, director, or making, has attained the summit of his art: theme. Within each category, however, are Ingmar Bergman. Of his work, Berman films vastly different in their content and himself has said : approach. This semester's Early American films, for example, range from the 1939 My Impulse has nothing to do with intellect classic western, Stagecoach, to the most or symbolism. It has only to do with dreams famous and powerful of all anti-war films, and longing, with hope and ...pair,with All Quiet on the Western Front. The series passion. ends with a film which evokes thoughts of both Watergate and the bicentennial-Frank Bergman's work has always reflected his Capra's State of the Union. This 1948 piece personal development; he has registered on on American politics and society is being film the fears, misgivings, and flashes of re-released this year after an absence of joy that have accompanied each phase of his almost twenty years. life. Viewers will be able to watch this 
A French spoof on war and society, King development throughout the five films to be of Hearts, a British story of evil and shown, which chronologically extend from domination, The Servant, and Fritz Lang's Smiles of a Summer Night 0955) to the German suspense thriller starring Peter recent release, Cries and Whispers (1972). Lorre, M, represent European cinema in Two short documentaries will be shown in the series. conjunction with the festival: Ingmar 
The contemmporary films--Roman Bergman, and the story of his chief Polanski's Chinatown, Francis Ford Cop­cameraman, Sven Nykvlst. pola's The Conversation, and Alan J. Pakula's Parallax View--stand far apart on 
While admission to each film is $1.00, thethe spectrum of today's popular movies, yet purchase of a patron card for $5.00 entitleseach portrays an individual's search for one to see all fourteen films. These cardssome truth in his conception of reality. 

will go on sale this Friday at the StudentThis semester's festival will center on a Union Ticket Office.

director who, in his thirty years of film-
no zone of ozone7 
Scientists have recently uncovered an Computer models indicate that the unlikely culprit as a potential major threat amount of chlorofluorocarbans now being to the environment--the lowly aerosol spray released intothe atmosphere is large enough 
can. to cause significant depletion of the ozone 
According to U. of California chemists F. layer (although its effects will not become Sherwood Rowland and Mario Molina, who apparent until it diffuses into the first called attention to the danger over a stratosphere many years from now,. and 
year ago, the problem arises from the they may persist for as long as a century), chlorofluorocarbons used as propellants in and if production continues to increase the sprays. The chlorine atoms produced by the depletion could become even more serious. breakdown of these chemicals in the upper The first noticeable effect of ozone layer
stratosphere act as a powerful catalyst for depletion would be an increase in the 
the destruction of the thin stratospheric number of cases of skin cancer caused by ozone layer which shields the earth from the increased ultraviolet radiation reaching deadly ultraviolet radiation from the the earth. ·More extensive depletion could
sun and makes it possible for life to exist on 
also cause major ecological disruptions

earth. through the effect of ultraviolet radiation reaching the earth. More extensive depletion could also cause major ecological disruptions through the effect of ultraviolet radiation on other living things, notably vital food plants and oceanic plankton, and could possible trigger catastrophic climatic changes, since ozone strongly affects climate by absorbing solar energy. 

This is still a controversial issue. Spokesmen for the aerosol industry ask that judgement be delayed until more conclusive proof of this theory has been obtained. However, if the theory is correct--and there seems to be every reason to take it seriously-~very delay increases the total amount of irreparable damage to the en­vironment--damage from which the ozone layer will not recover for a hundred years. 
The state of Oregon has already passed a bill which will ban the future sale of all aerosol sprays containing chlorofluorocarbons, and many consumers throughout the country have begun a spontaneous boycott of all aerosol spray products. Join the boycot! Find substitutes for aerosol hair sprays and spray deodorants. The inconvenience should be minor, you will probably be saving money, and you will be improving all our chances of survival. 

.. The movie lllstlngs for films to be shown on campus this semest~r , by the CAC were inaccuratelJ printed In yesterday's paper. T~a: ' correct list with accompanying dates are printed below: 
Sept. 19-20 Chinatown M
2:1-24 The Conversation
Oct. ~l-10 141-15 Stagecoach 
Hl-23 lngmar Bergman Festival: 
19 Ingmar Bergman and Smiles of a Summer Night 
Wild Strawberries
20 
21 The Silence 
22 Persona 
23 Sven Nykvist and Cries and Whispers 
28··29 King of Hearts 
Nov. 4-5 The Servant 
11-12 All Quiet on the Western Front 
21-22 Parallax View 
Dec. 2-3 State of the Union 
unsettled refugees 
Dat Lanh, the Good Land, is not the name "From the letters I have read from of an implratnt city lost in the communist families that have been sponsored, they tell takeover of South Vietnam, but the struggle me how much they have been given. I fear of Vietnamese refugees trying to assimilate that they will perhaps be given too much into American society at the Indiantown and become spoiled. This worries me Gap Military Reservation in Annville, because if they do something bad, it could Pennsylvania. have severe consequences on those refugees 
On May 31, more than 19,000 refugees came still in camps and awaiting sponsoirs." to Indiantown Gap from the overcrowded In Vietnam, Mr. Hoang was a businessman facilities on Guam. Mter three months, and his wife, Quyen, a well known radio and more than 11,000 Vietnamese remained'on television personality. They had hoped to the base, anxiously awaiting sponsorships establi~h a four family artist's colony in a that will enable them to leave the camp and large c1ty, but the difficulties in finding a begin a new life. sponsor for such a project had diminished 
Mr. Hoang and his family have lbeen in their hopes.
refugee camps for the past four months. He The resettlement of the refugees in the 
is concerned about the responsibilities of the United States is being handled by eight 
Vietnamese to the people of the United volunteer agencies (VOLAGS). These 
States and to their fellow refugees. agencies play a major role in resettling the 
Unlike the tent cities of Camp Pendleton, refugees by matching them with specific 
the refugees at Indiantown Gap are housed sponsors such as churches, individuals, or in Army barracks whose interiors have been community groups. A sponsor is expected partitioned to give some measure of privacy to receive the refugees family and/rovide 
to the families. Americans are not allowed food, shelter, adequate clothing, an pocket in the barracks unless invited by one of the money until the family becomes self-suf· Vietnamese families. Upon the invitation of ficient. Other responsibilities include fin­
Mr. Phuc, we entered his "home", a ding employment, school enrollment for the spotlessll clean cubicle which holllsed a children, and covering ordinary n1edlcal 
family o ten. Slung between the bunkbeds costs and insurance. The sponsor must also were two . hammocks containing the be willing to assist the refugee in other youngest members of the family. Pointing aspects of assimilation such as adjusting to to one of the hammocks, Mr. Pbuc smiled a ne~ C!Jlture and customs.. While spon­and said, "Born in Guam, only two months sorship IS not a legal comm1tment, 1t is old, American citizen." He then offered his clearly a moral commitment to assist the guests what little he had to share; half a refugees as much as possible. pack of cigarettes and some chewing gum. On November 30, the refugee camp In­He spoke of how he and his family had been diantown Gap will be closed and the seperatered during South Vietnam's final remaining Vietnamese will be uprooted days and escaping on different ships, had once more and transferred to yet another 
been reunited in Guam. Other families camp. For the unsponsored refugees Dat seperated during the chaotic last dlays of Lanh, the Good Land, will no longer'be a 
South Vietnam's collapse were not as for­dream but a memory. The reality of life in tunate and can be seen daily crowding the refugee camp will take on increasing around the camp's "locator service," trying permanence and the hopes for a new life will to discover the fate of missing family diminished but be not extinguished. 
The Marshall Tucker Band will be in Also appearing will be special guest, 
concert at the Morris Civic Auditorium on Heartsfield. Tuesday, Sept. 16, 7:30 p.m. Tickets are $5.50 in advance and $6.50 at the door and The Marshall Tucker Band originated in 
are now on sale at the Auditorium Box the deep south and it shows in their melodic Office; Boogie Records; Just fot the boogie and gritty flair. Their latest album, Record; and the Suspended Cord in Elkhart "Searchin' for a Rainbow," was just 
and Goshen. released last week. 

-!,?__•__t~h...!.:e~o~b~s~e~r~v~e~r~__w::.=edn::::•sda=y!.!..,-=Se~p:..:.:teoa=~er=-=--1::..:•;.:_•-=-=1tc.:..::.7s New guidelines . 
SMC extends visitation hours 
by Mary Egan Staff Reporter 

St. Mary's residence halls did ,t have visitation hours last :ekend because the hall councils 'ere still in the process of -rking out new guidelines for the " tole parietal system," stated · :try Lu Bilek, vice president of 
J.dent affairs for student •ernment. visitation hours were extended 
is summer. Parietals are now 
from 6 p.m. to midnight on Fridays, 1 p.m. to midnight on Saturdays, and from 1 p.m. to 5 
p.m. on Sundays. 
The Student Mfairs Office did not set hp the rules of the program this summer because the students were absent, explained Stevie Wernig, assistant to the vice presidentpf academic affairs. "We don't set up things without the 
students,"she stated. 
According to Bilek, the hall 

councils were still in the meeting 
stages last week. because "we want to make sure that parietals work this year. They have to work," she emphasized. 
"Because of that we want to make sure we have a system that the students feel is fair and 
workable." 

Bilek said, "There have to be some·guidelines and something to make sure the guidelines are 
followed." 

·~nti-busing tension continues 
BOSTON CAP) -Antibusing Jthers chanted prayers and shed baby carriages in the 
'1arlestown area Tuesday as second day of school under 
, urt-ordered desegregation 1ed pe~cefully. ".chool attendance was up ·oughout the city as police 
~""!eniors plan ··•urdue party 
A party at Purdue during 

• ! football weekend highlights .ns released by the Notre Dame nior Class. :be party package will include a 
;••ket to the Purdue game and a itet to a pregame party at the fayette Conservation. Club. ~r and hot dogs will be available 
the club, located fo~ .mUes ay from the Purdue stadium. \ugie Grace, senior class ~sident, said students who ·eady have .tickets for the Jtball game can buy party kets·separately. Students may y four tickets but must have a 1ior identification card for each ·:et. 'he ticket packages will go on 
! Thursday at 1 p.~. at the dent Union Ticket Office. The ;kage will co.st $9.50 and 1arate party tickets will cost 00. cheduled for November are an -nory Party and the traditional lior Women's Dinner, Grace j, Festivities are also planned the Southern California football .,kend. n addition to a semiformal '.ce Dec. 5 at the Ernskine 

.· mtry Club, the senior class is 
! ;ming a senior trip to Freeport, 'lamas, over the March break. nplete trip information will be tilable and sent to seniors ough the mail, Grace said. 'The senior class officers are -~king very closely with the St. .ry's class officers to bring ,ether the two classes,"Grace 
d. "Each hall also has a senior :~s representative." .eniors with questions about the .ivities or who wish to serve on nmittees planning the events ·uld contact a class officer or J representative, he said. 
Mile N of..ND-SM on U.S 31 MIDNIGHT SHOW FRI. & SAT. 
.. 
lUY YOUR TICKETS_; NOW!! !• REDUCED PRICES j• 
• 
..ROLLERBALL" : at Midnigh_t E ..TOMMY'' 
,. • 
•
at 12: 15 A.M. ••• 
•
• 


kept up a highly visible show of front of the building, an histori­force, and there was no serious cal landmark which suffered trouble at the schools by the damages estimated at $25,000 to time the buses came to take $75.000, the children home. 
Also Monday night, a police­Some rock and bottle throw­man was ·grazed by a dart ining was reported near the high South Boston, another Irishschool in Charlestown during neighborhood which was the 
· 
the afternoon, however. Police center of antibusing sentiment · reported about a half dozen ar­last year. Officials said therests throughout the day. 

sharp-pointed missiles were Police said officers patrolling also being fired in Charlestown.
racially tense sections would be issued flak jackets to protect Busing schoolchildren to en­them from darts being fired at force a desegregation order be­
night from slingshots and air gan last year in some neighbor­guns. hoods, notably South Boston. This year busing has been in­In Charlestown, a tough Irish creased and new areas added neighborhood Where schools. including Charlestown. ' 
have been virtually all-white, about 300 mothers and teen-age Final figures were not avail­girls marched through the able from school officials, but streets to protest busing. early reports indicated that 
• over-all attendance on Tuesday
When they neared Charles-was up considerably from Mon­town High School, a wall of po-day's 58.9 per cent. Reports lice officers blocked their path. from eight high schools and The women sat in the street .five elementary schools showed and recited the Lord's Prayer an over-all attendance rate of until police finally allowed 62.2 per cent. 
them to march on sidewalks about a block from the school. The streets of South Boston were nearly empty during
Police buses and ,vans sealed school hours Tuesday, exceptoff the street in front of the ag­for police and U.S. marshalsing granite building, and tactic­who were positioned along busal patrolmen walked with the routes and near South Bostonmarchers. 

High School. . · 

Fire ·officials said Tuesdaythat the birthplace of President State troopers had the plastic John F. Kennedy was apparent-visors of their riot helmets ly fire-bombed Monday night. pushed back, and unlike on Antibusing slogans had been Monday, there were no gas scrawled on the sidewalk in masks on their hips.







nz ,..•.--,.w·n-llr ·u·--··--;rrsz 
the observer 

Night Editor: Marti Hogan Features: Thomas O'Neil Assistant Night Editor: Maureen Sports: Bill Brink Flynn1 Typists: Neal Viii, Mel Celeste, Layout Staff: Jim Stevens, Larry Hank Van Dyke
Carcare, Val zurblls Compugraphic: Morey Blinder 
(there, are you happy now, Merv?) Day Editor: Don Reimer Night Controller: Bob Steinmetz Copy Readers: Gregg Bangs, Ken Ad Layout: Pat Russell, Mike Bradford Miller, Joe Graif, Tom Whelan 
---····~·····....-............................,
!REMEMBER THE FOOD YOU USED :
•

! TO GET AT FRANKIE'S??? ! : THAT'S THE SAME FOOD :
•

: YOU GET HERE .: (Dorothy, the cuisine artist with 
•
19 years of .gourmet cooking at Frankie's is now at Valerie's cooking the same delicious food) • 
ITALlAN SPECIALTIES : 

•
SPAGHETTI 
10% discount

MOSTACIOLLI LASAGNA with N.D. /:D. • 
RAVIOLI ••• PASTA FAGIOLI UtaHan bean soup) 
• 

•
(Dinners Inc. Itallan bread· & salad) : 
OPEN BREAKFAST SERVED: 5 am to 9 pt;n ANYTIME • • 
VALERIE'S RESTAURANT ~ · 
8<n S. MICHIGAN. SO. BEND ! (NEXT TO 'GILBERTS) 289 -0681 : 
........~~···--········••!f.._.................. 
Visitation rules for the dorms are up to each hall's council. 
"We had to make sure the guidelines are consistent 'with all the halls. In order to do this, we had to make sure they were un~ derstood and ·acceptable toeach hall director," added Bilek. 
Last year hall directors had jurisdiction over what happens to residents who were lax in their responsibilities. "Last semester LeMans cancelled parietals on a Saturday and Sunday because no one showed up to sign in the visitors the Friday before," complained a LeMans resident. 
Nina Huber, the present LeMans hall director, said the person at the desk could not sign in the visitors because "there is too much to do· involving the office itself and answering the phone.'" 
There are now some automatic sanctions. If a person exceeds the lO·minute grace period, she must be present for the last few minutes of parietals ·the next time, Bilek said. 
A resident who misses her hour of parietal duty must take two hours the next weekend.. I'The guidelines will be posted in all the halls," said Bilek. 
Parietals "is a priviliege we don't want revoked. To insure that we retain it, we have to be responsible about it," said Bilek. 
The hall councils will be in effect by next Wednesday, Bilek ~dded. 

THE LAW BOARD REVIEW SEMINAR TAUGHT BY PRACTICING ATTORNEYS 
The Law Board Review Center announces a special,weekend Seminar in preparation for the October LSAT, The instructing attorney fully prepares the aspiring law student to maximize his/her score on the Test. The· Seminar provides a thorough analysis of the LSAT, including extensive replication and .review of all relevant sections of the Test. This intensive weekend review also includes ·special emphasis in those areas where scores .are most likely to be improved, consideration of test­taking techniques, and materials for additional study.The complete fee is $85. 
IN NOTRE DAME at the Holiday Inn Sat. & Sun., Sept. 27th & 28th Sat.-9AM-3:30PM-Sun.-9AM-6:30PM 
Information and Reservations Call Toll-Free 800-458-2380 
LAW BOARD RFVIEW CENTER 
32 Gramercy Park South 10770 Lawler Street New York, New Uork 10003 Lo~ Angeles, Calif. 90034 

WITH US THIS WEEKEND AND GET ON 
• 

TO AGOOD THING. 
Us means Greyhound. and a lot of your fellow students 
• 
• who are already on to a good thing. You leave when you like. Travel comfortably. Arrive refreshed and on time . 
You'll save money. too. over the increased air ­fares. Share the ride with us on weekends. Holidays. Anytime. Go Greyhound. 
GREYHOUND SERVICE
• 
ONE-ROUND-YOU CAN YOU TO WAY TRIP LEAVE ~RRIVE 
Chicago 5.20 10.40 12:35 P.M. 3:05P.M.
• 
Cleveland 17.35 33.00 9:00A.M. 4:15P.M. Detroit 13.55 25.75 3:05P.M. 9:30P.M. Pitts 25.85 49.15 3:00P.M. 1:40A.M. Milw 10.70 20.35 9:15A.M. 1:15P.M. 
Ask your agent about additional departures and return trips . 
GREYHOUND BUS TERMINAL 210 W. MONROE ST. 287 • 6541 


GO GREYHOUND 
...and leave the driving to us• 

~~ ~ -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednescl•y, September 10, 1975 the observer 
7

Pioneer foreign study program 
•
ND studentS open program ID Taiwan 
Two Universitr of ~otre Dame before beginning the class year at philosophy as core courses, and at Sophia University in Tokyo, at in residence at Notre Dame. Dr. students are p10neermg a new National Taiwan University in elective courses in sociology, the School of Irish Studies, Dublin Charles E. Parnell, professor of Foreign Study Program this year Taipei, Taiwan. Staff members at folklore, art and anthropology. Ireland, and at the University of modern and classical languagesin the Republic of China, the eighth the major coeducational university Holiday and semester break will Anahuac in Mexico City. Law and a member of the Notre Dame overseas campus opened to un-have studied in the U.S. and speak be in accord with a Taiwan students study in both London and faculty since 1948, serves as dergraduates and law students English in addition to Mandarin. calendar that has the spring Tokyo, and students majoring in director of the Foreign Studyaround the world. More than a Courses will be taught in English semester beginning in mid-architecture may spend a year in Program. thousand students have par-with as much use of Chinese as the February after the Chinese New Rome along with College o~ Arts The first NotreDame students in ticipated in the specialized students' preparatio!J and ability Year. and Letters majors. Taiwan are Theodore Gustowski, 
pro~rams abroad since their allow. Other Foreign Study programs, Grades at the foreign. univer-Onset, Mass., and Stephen Seiler, origmation over a decade ago. Fall and spring classes for the also known as Sophomore Year sities are given lthe same as at St. Louis, Mo., both juniors. They 
Located on the island formerly Notre Dame ,students wishing to Abraoad programs, include Norre Dame and all credits apply have been joined by Carole known as Formosa, the students 1 pursue their study of Chinese classes at Catholic University of for degrees sought. Costs of at-D' Amato, an exchange student are attending the Jesuit Chinese language and philosophy include the West in Angers, France, at the tendimz: the schools are ap-from Stonehill College, North 
~~~~I_n_s_ti.tu_t_e_i_n_H_s_i_nc_h_u__c_it~Y---l-an~g~u-a~g~e~·-h_i_s_to_r_y_,_l_it_e_ra_t_u_r_e_a_n_d--~T~·~·~D~"~'~~~-of_I_n.n.s.b.ru.c.k_.in_A__us.t_r,ia, ~~~~~~th--e·s~a~m·e·a·s~fo~r·th--osiei.~E~~asitlolni1Miaissll.11......~u.... 
ATTENTION ! ! 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
For Sale: '65 Galaxle Ford. GoodLOST AND FOUND 

tudents who were over­
For Rent: nice room for 1 NDengine, like new, 4 tires. 125. 234­graduate student. 278-1997.
5686. 

eas last year can pick u
Found: girl's watch found 
Saturday night on sidewalk near Whole upstairs floor girls only,Towers. Call 8844. For Sale: Beautiful red shag rug. 
S50 per month 283-7579 or 233­Approx 9'x12'. Call 7819. 

their 1975 Domes
1329. 

Lost: a turquoise fetish earring WANTED
Sale: tables,

on SMC campus. Great sen. picnic electric 
in Dome office
skillet, blanket, shaver, bumpertlmen'lll value. If found, call jack, battery charger, trash can,

5429. Desperately need Boston College
burner, chairs, stools, bench, 
tickets for famlly. Call Cole 288­
dishes, kitchen Items, 
0088. 

Wednesday -Thursday
humidifier, antique ice box,
NOTICES miscellaneous.. 234-7362. 

8 p.m. -10 p.m.
Need ride to Boston on Thurs or 

Party Friday night at 1223 Friday. Becky 6734.
For Sale: couches, chairs, misc.

Woodward Ave. 
Free delivery to campus. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-30004. 

Need four tickets to Michigan Quick loans. Morrissey Loan State game. Call Tom O'Neil at Fund. Up to $150. 30 days, 1 8661 after 7 P.M. 
OUR 
USED BOOKS

percent Interest. Basement of LaFortune, M.F; 1115-12:15 
Available for these and many 
Ride needed to Purdue Friday,
other classes from Pandora's 





TEAM
12th, after 6:30 P.M. or Sat. Will
Books:

Typing. S.35 per page. Cll Dan help pay for gas. Call Ruth 4067.
Am St 352, 357, 381, 482; Art 151;272·5549. 

Col Sem 321; Eng 109, 113, 180, 85, 307, 322, 376, 385, 386, 390A, 
Need one used bicycle. Call Bill 


CAN'T
395, 399, 403A, 404A, 433, 445, 505,

Will do 1yplng. Experienced. at 7471 or 288-4217.
528, 583, 591, 674B; GenProgramCall 233-1512. 

243, 281, 345, 381, 441, 443, 481; Govt 180, 467, 545; Hlst 180, 215, 
·BE
Need 2 general admission so. Cal 
305, 411, 437, 439, 453, 455, 509;

"But you've got to have friends" tlx. Mary 6680.
Phil 101, 201, 241, 245, 255, 272,

Information write Gay 
275,303,306,351, 441, Psych 180;Students of Notre Dame ; Soc 225, 227; Speech 135, 390;

P.O.Box 206 ; Notre Dame, Ind. Wanted: Anyone who can board 

BEAT!. 
235,236,251,331,367,411,433,593; Mod Lang 

46556. my St. Bernard for the school 
year, protector for your house. 180,361,393,421,521,430,441. 

Dog Is one-year old. Will pay $20 Free puppies. Call after 3 P.M. a month. Phone 272-8073 after
Save s s . Buy used books for 272-2520. 8P.M.
your classes at Pandora's Books' new locatlonat 937 South Bend Ave. 233-2342. Open every day 10­




FUEL OIL 
Paullus of MBA vs. Nickle of Need one housemate, excellent Nickle's. Four Nlckle-Burgers condition, newly remodeled, $75 
7. SPECIALISTS
(2 lbs.) In One Hour. Thursday, per month, Incl. utilities. Phone 9-11-75. (Be There-1:30 P.M.) 287-3463'
FOR RENT We always provide free delivery service to our customers.
Near NO furnished small house and kitchenette apt. (couple) 272-You can have on automatic delivery system where your
FOR SALE Need 2 Purdue tlx. Call Mike
6174. 

8106. monthly bill can be leveled out to the some amount year 
around! The only requirement is o 200 gallon minimum
For Sale: YAMAHA 1972--125cc Need B.C. Tickets. Mike 1905
Furnished apartment. 503 W.

800 actual mileage, Includes 2 after 11 P.M. delivery for call-in customers. If you want to be on a
Jefferson. duplex 3-room·s, floorhelmets. S595, or best offer. 233· gas heat, furnished. 289-6307, 234-winning team and take advantage of true specialists

6727 0596. 
Wanted: 2 Boston College call today for our student special! tickets. Call John 8433. Lots of used furniture, arm 
Room for girl close to NO. Kit­

chairs, lamps, chests, sofa, 

CALL 259-9978
chen privileges., swimming pool,

electric office typewriter, beds, Need 7 Northwestern G.A. 
$15 per week. Call Mrs. Cooper

rolf.away, tables, deep fryer, ticketsII Will pay top dollar. 288­
272-3004.

and other garage sale and 5207. household Items. Thurs., and Friday. 10.12. 1024 Quimby, off 2·bedroom apartment or in­
Eddy between Jefferson Blv· dividual rooms for rent. Close to PERSONALS 



--FRASCH-.. 
d.and school field, or call 287-campus. furnished, S135 and $65. 
Nose: Six months now.. tough If

1312. Utilities Included. 233-2613 you're too good for me--you're stuck now. Lipless. 

L MPANY 
OPEN: dawn ·til 6:00p.m. 
9-IQI.·~·~
Arl.,_ ._ ....... _...,_ 

100 CENTER 
~:?~MISHAWAKA IND.
I 
~~ ~ 
~-?L,'-'\-~ 

..
~)\\.~.....,-'CES CUT ~~~~::01 

1st ANNUAL BACKPACKING SAL: 
on 
BACKPACKS DAY PACKS COOKWARE NYLON TENTS DOWN BAGS DOWN PAl-; 
SALE ENDS SATURDAY OPEN 10 am -9 nm D 
t /• ' ' • , '" '.f. f 
• .. ... "' ' .' ~ \ .~ • ' , • • ' ·' I • ,. • • .. • • I ' .. ' • ~
...-.. 

I ' .' ~/"Aj 'I '' '. I • ~,. ' ' t 4 .. ·....... ' . ' . 
I ~· ' ... •• .. • I '

I ' f f I ' of f ~ ~ f f r I ' J If' f ' t ' ' # , I II rf'' I.,. I # • " • .. ' •. -.• i •. •' • • ', A .. a t \ • f ' 
I r;,· .' . . .... 


the observer Wecl!'esday, September to, 1975 
Stock adjusting to move from line ·to linebacker 

SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) ­New Notre Dame football Coach Dan Devine is expecting great things from a first-year linebacker. 
Before he's accused of bank­ing too much on youth, Devine points out the new linebacker is actually a familiar old lineman named Jim Stock. 
Stock, now a co-captain and Associated Press Lineman of the Week last season at defen­sive end, was considered too small at 215 pounds for his old position, evep though he set team records for tackles behind the line of scrimmage and 120 yards in losses. 
"We'll miss him," said defen­sive line coach Joe Yonto. "He has always come up with the big play and is the ideal work­er." 
Devine is hoping the mobile, Barberton, Ohio, player takes those attributes with him to the linebacking corps, which if Stock works out, should be one of the Irish strong points this season. 
Linebacking coach George Kelly reports Stock is picking up the position quickly. 
"It's a little funny," Stock surmised. "When practice first started, the freshmen line­backers knew more about the 
position than I did. They played 
*Observer 





Sports 

Ernie Torriero 
::=================================================:==============================:======================================================================================================================: 

Extra Points 
There may not be a collegiate football cham­pionship flag hanging from the Golden Dome this season. But one thing is almost a certainty.\ When Notre Dame takes the field next Monday night against Boston College, the overflow crowd at Fox­boro Stadium, plus millions of college football par­tisans watching on national television, will witness the unveiling of what will eventually be the greatest defensive line in the history of college football. 
Even though that statement may sound strong, its 
accuracy is not far off. Barring any injuries, the Irish front four will be 1175 pounds of solid teamwork which will make opposing coaches cringe just at the thought 
of facing such a foe.
Sophomores Willie Fry and Ross Browner are the bookends. Sandwiched between the,pair 1 1. are the hulk-man like tackes, senior Steve Niehaus and 
th d
sophomore Jeff Weston. Put those four toge er an what you come up with is the term defense spelled
with a capital "D". 
The architect of this rock ofj granite lis Joe Yonto .. lhe fiery little Italian who's been molding Notre Dame defensive lines for the last ten years. Unlike student sportswriters, Yonto reflects a poised optimism when talking of his latest creation. 
"You may be right about that line," Yonto said yesterday. "But only time will tell. They are big, while also being quick. They seem to compliment each other well." 
To say Yonto is good at his job is an un­derstatement. As he sat in his office on the first floor of the ACC comtemplating for a brief moment all that he has done in the past, Yonto could not help thinking about the future. 
"That line has a lot of great ones to follow ,"!he said as he pointed to the pictures that adorn his wall. The names are indeed impressive. Mike McCoy, Kevin Hardy, Alan Page, Dick Arrington, Tom Regner, Pete Duranko, Paul Costa, Bob J<uchenberg, Walt Patulski, Mike Kadish, Greg Marx land Mike Fanning are just some of the players that Yonto has tutored i.nto pro football. 
If -someOne who is not familiar with Yonto's coaching style were to walk out to practice some afternoon, he would probably see the Vince Lombardi type figure acting very dissatisfied with the brunt of his anger being laid on Willie Fry. But when Fry is 

., unleashed on the opposition the durability he learns in practice is marked on the field. The 6-3, 2Z7 pound Fry saw 50 minutes of action as a. 
<• ,. •• Jllfi,,; 

Former lineman Jim Stock is still adjusting to his new linebacker 
position 
it in high schooL" 
Stock is expected to open at the position along with Tom Eastman and Doug Becker. 
Stock's switch was made pos­sible by the return of top defen­sive end prospects Willie Fry and Ross Browner, who are coming off a one-year suspen­sion by the university. 
Stock said his new duties 

freshman in 1973. After sitting out a year due to a violation of university rules, Willie is more than ready to show 'that he can do the job.His quickness and strength are assets that seem to make him om­nipresent on the football field. Fry is as dedicated in the classroom as he is on the gridiron. 
There will be many times this season when Fry nd Browner will look like they both occupy the same pair of shoes. For such is the way that both play their 
defensive end position. They think nothing of helping 
each other out on the other side.

For Browner' the 6-3, 240 pound ball hawker out of Warren, Ohio, reckless abandon is a testimony to his style of play. Browner opened bis Notre Dame career 
ff · · bl k t
by exploding through the o ens1ve hne to oc a pun for a safety in the 1973 Northwestern gam,e. He led the · squad in tackles for loss with 15 for 104 yards that 
year. Like Fry, Browner spent last year on the
sidelines. He's back ... bigger and quicker than ever. 
If they gave awards for dedication, Jeff Weston would be at the front of the line. The 6-5, 250 poundRochester, N.Y. native, made 31 tackles, including two for losses of 22 yards, as a freshman last season. His asset is definitely in his massive strength. Weston reported to camp a little bit overweight which may have caused him to hurt his ankle early in the fall. But the ankle has healed. Now there is the problem of getting rid of the nausea he sometimes feels before a game. He should only know what happens to his opponents after the game. 
Two knee injuries and four years of rooming with fullback Tom Parise has not deterred Steve Niehaus from becoming the premier tackle in college football. Last year, the "House" played at defensive end where his 95 tackles were third among Irish defenders. All the superlative's in Roget's Thesaurus would not be enough to laud Niehaus. One only has to remember last year's Pitt game to think of Steve's quickness. Pitt quarterback Bill Daniels pitched out to a halfback\ and raced downfield ·to catch the returning pass. Niehaus reversed directions and arrived just as Danield was hauling it in. Niehaus jarred Daniels and the pass was incomplete. 
Fifty years from now, when I'm sitting around the fireplace telling the nieces and nepjews about the glory of Notre Dame, they'll ask old Uncle Ernie about that legendary Irish Front Four. Then I'll tell them about the Southern Cal game of '75, the game in which Notre Dame shut out the Trojans and held them to negative yardage. 
WeU, you never know. 

force him to pay more attention to formations, and the develop­ment of opposition plays. 
For instance, he said, "on passing coverage, I have to re­member to drive back on a pass rather than rush forward. It's a little strange when you've been doing it the opposite way for so long." 
Notre Dame's opening game is Monday night at Boston Col­lege. 
Black Hawk tix on sale at ACC 
Tickets are now on sale for the September 20 Chicago Black Hawks exhibition hockey game against their Dallas farm club. Game time will be 7:30 in the ACC. 
General admission for adul will be $3.50 while all Notre Dame or St. Mary's students with an ID card will be admitted for $2.00. Children 16 and under will also be $2.00. Tickets may be purchased at the ACC ticket office. 

Baseball scores 
PITTSBURGH <AP) -Andy Thornton rapped his 15th homer, then smacked a tie-breaking single to help the Chicago Cubs to a 6-6 victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates Tuesday night. 
MONTREAL (AP) -Ed Dwyer led off the lOth inning with a single and raced home on Mike Jorgensen's double Tuesday night to give the Mon­treal Expos a 2-1 victory over the New York. Mets. 
ATLANTA (AP) -Home runs from Marty Perez, Mike Lum and Dave May of the At­lanta Braves powered rookie right-hander Adrian Devine to a 4-1 victory over the Houston Astros Tuesday night. 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Lee Lacy's tie-breaking single in the eighth inning touched off a five-run rally and triggered the Los Angeles Dodgers to an 8-3 triumph over the San Francisco Giants Tuesday . night. 
By The Associated Press 
National League 
East 
W L Pet. GB 
Pittsburgh 81 61 .570 -
Philphia 76 68 .528 6 
St. Louis 75 68 .524 61h 
New York 73 71 .507 9 
Chicago 68 77 .465 141h 
Montreal 64 79 .444 171h 
West 
Cincinnati 96 47 .671 
Los Angeles 76 68 .528 20% 
S.Francisco 70 73 .490 ~6 
San Diego 64 80 .444 321h 
Atlanta • 64 81 .441 33 
Houston 56 90 .384 41% 
Tuesday's Games 
Philadelphia 6, St. Louis 2 
Atlanta 4, Houston 1 
Chicago 6, Pittsburgh 5 
Montreal 2, New York 1, 10 
innings 
Cincinnati at San Diego 
San Francisco at Los Angeles 
Call 233-6161 NOW! DORM DOOR DELIVERY 
ROD STEWART & FACES 
with the J. Ge·ils Band 
IN CONCERT SATURDAY OCTOBER 4th at 7:30 pm at ACC 
TICKET PRICES $7.50 & $6.50 
ickets Now on Sale 
at ACC & STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE 
By Student Union & Pacific Presentations 
MILWAUKEE <AP) -Lee May and Dave Dunc.an keyed a pair of four-run Baltimore in­nings and Doyle Alexander pitched a four-hitter, leading the surging Orioles over the Milwaukee Brewers 9-1 Tues­day night. 
CLEVELAND (AP)-Alan ~y·~ run-scoring single in the lOth mnmg powered the Cleveland Indians to a 3-2 victory over the Boston Red Sox Tuesday night. George Hendrick led off with a double and after a one-out in­tentional walk to Buddy Bell scored on Ashby's hit. ' 
NEW YORK <AP) -Chris Chambliss ripped five hits and drove in three runs, leading the New York Yankees to a 9-6 vic­tory over the Detroit TigersTuesday night. 
CHICAGO <AP> Mike Miley drove in two runs with a single and saerifice flv to lead the California Angeles to a 5-4 victory over the ChicagoWhite Sox. 
By The Associated Press 
American League 
East 

W L Pet. GB 
Boston 84 59 .587 

Baltimore 79 64 .552 5 
New York 73 71 .507 lllh 
Cleveland 69 70 .496 13 
Milwaukee 62 83 .428 23 
Detroit 54 89 .378 30 
West 
Oakland 86 56 .606 

Kansas City 80 62 .563 6 
Texas 71 75 .486 17 
Chicago 68 75 .476 18% 
Minnesota 66 74 .471 19 
California 65 79 .451 22 
Tuesday's Games 

Texas 3-4, Minnesota 0-2 
Cleveland 3, Boston 2, 10 in­
nings 
New York 9, Detroit 6 

Baltimore 9, Milwaukee 1 
California 5, Chicago 4 

Kansas City at Oakland, (n) 
We're No. 1 Notre Dame Sports. 
Read the 



i.outl) tltnd 
Everyday! 
.. 





