

server 
-st. mary's college 
Tuesday, April 8, 1975 

Cambodian capital threatened 
Communist forces advance 
By FREDERICK H. MARKS Communist rocket and artil­country. The embassy was the lery fire appeared to be only diplomatic mission still 
PHNOM PENH <UPI) increasingly accurate. The re­operating in Phnom Penh, and Communist-led rebel forces, bels hit a napalm bomb storage that with a staff reduced from firing rockets as they advan­area and fired other rockets in nearly 200 to about 30 or 40 in ced, pushed to within 3% miles a pattern that covered all sides less than a week. of Phnom Penh's vital airport of the airport terminaL Staffs of voluntary relief 
· Monday and hurled government The Communists routed more agencies doing refugee work 
• troops back from yet more defenders from the airfield's under contract to the U.S. positions along the city's vicinity, and their assault line government also had almost all defense perimeter. 31 ~ miles away put the airport left the capital by Sunday. The situation for the Cam­within extreme range of their Political sources said a bodian government appeared heavy mortars. meeting of senior officials increasingly grim. "The situation to the north­including acting President Sau 
Other insurgents battled their west <near the airportl is very Khamkoy and Vice Prime way into the province capital of serious," an official source Minister Hang Thun Hak Kompong Speu, 24 miles west said. "There is some penetra­discussed whether the capital of the capital, and an official tion in those segments of the should be surrendered to the source said "it could very well defense perimeter." insurgents, but decided military fall." Ohtori Kurino, the Japanese and civilian leaders should 
Another province capital, ambassador who closed down work for unity in the face of the Prey Veng, about 15 miles east his country's mission here last new threats. of Phnom Penh, was threatened week, said in Tokyo the airport In Bangkok, Foreign Minister 
when government forces aban­may become the prime target Chartchai Choonhavan said the doned five positions to its north. of a major rebel assault before Thai government at its own 
With the Khmer Rouge rebels the lunar new year holidays initiative had established a controlling about 90 per cent of April 13-15. "direct contact" with the rebel Cambodia and besieging Phnom Despite the assault, U.S. Khmer Rouge in an attempt to Penh, Pochentong Airport was planes resumed ammunition set up peace negotiations in the capital's sole supply link and fuel flights into the airport Bangkok with the Cambodian with the outside world. at dawn -the 64th day of the government. 
One diplomat who fled the airlift. "As a neighboring courtry of city said the insurgents may Two more evacuation flights Cambodia," Chartchai said, launch a major attack against Monday took additional U.S. "we don't want to see the the airfield within a week. embassy personnel from the continuing of the bloodshed." 
Campus escort service started to provide added security 
I I 
! 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
BRO. JUST PACZESNY opened yesterday's SLC meeting with a Board of Trustees' report (Photo by Tom Lose). 
Student Life Council educes ~nentbershi 
b~· Rrian M. Clancy Staff R.-porter 
The Student Life Council voted yesterday to reduce its membership 
from 24 mPmbers to 15. The change will be included in a list of 
recommmdations to be presented to the Board of Trustees on May 9. 
The proposal. introduced by Brian Hegarty, passed only after Pxhaustive debate on the pros and cons of such a move. Sixteen nwmhers eventually voted in favor of the proposal. 
In forwarding his proposal. Hegarty claimed the reduction in size would make the SLC more efficient through a consolidation of efforts. 1'rofessor William said the move would be a wise one if " we view the role of the SLC' as that of a problem solving force rather than as a legislative force." 
Professor Walter Nicgorski disagreed with the speedy adoption of Ihe proposal. stating there had not been enough "reasonable debate." !'<iegorski l'ontended that no vote should be taken on the matter until such debatE' was possible. 
1-:x officio ml'mbt>rship l'l'rluct>rl 
In rPducing the number of representatives of the faculty, ad­ministration and student body from eight to five, the council also voted lo rPduce the number of ex officio members to three. 
The n•vised council will include one representative each from the 
administration. facultv. and students. These representatives will be the Yice-president for. student affairs, the vice-chairman to the faculty senate and the student body president. 
This Pliminatim1 of ex officio members. proposed by Maureen <;leason and amended by Fr. Carl Ebey, will affect the dean of students. the l'hairman of the faculty senate and the student body vice­president. 
This change will not necessarily bar these officers from further mput on the SLC' since they could still be chosen for one of the four remaining positions on the SLC from their areas. 
The disl'ussion on reducing the size of the SLC followed a report from lhe Hoard of Trustees which Bro. Just l'aczesny . vice-president for studt>nt affairs. read at the opening of the meeting. 
"The Hoard of Trustees." Paczesny stated, " 1 was glad to ht>ar that the SLC is examining itself. Student hfe at Notre Dame has undergone many ·.·hanges in the last seven years and the SLC was an integral part in many of them" 
The recommPndations to reduce the size of the SLC must be preparPd and mainled by April21 in order for the topic to be discussed ;tt the !\lay meeting of the trustees. 
l'aril'!al rlt>batt> postpont>rl 
After lhe discussion and voting ended. Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant provost. presented an eighteen-page report on parietals which her committee had prepared. Due to the length of the rPport. howPver. debate on the report was postponed until the April 21 m(•eting 
Sr..Jones noted the council members will have until April 14 to study the report in private. at which time it will be released to the campus pn•ss for public perusaL Jones asked that. the report not be released until then so that council members would have time to reflect upon it wtthout the pressure of public opinion. 
Earlier in the evening, the council a·ccepted a letter of resignation from retiring student body president Pat McLaughlin and approved the appointment of Ed Byrne. 
Frank ~'lanagan. former student body vice-president has not yet Yacated h1s seat as cha1rman of the SLC. Dr. Robert Ackerman, vice­('hairman. expressed his eonfidence that Flanagan will remain in his post until !\lay. when his term officially expires. 
Flanagan was absent from the meeting and unavailable for com­mPnt. 
by Lonnie Luna Staff Reporter 

Former Fisher Hall President Rich Morton has tentatively set the date for the start of the Student Escort Service for Monday, April 14. 
Morton explained the basics on how the Student Escort Service will operate: 
"From eight to twelve in the evenings, there will be two escorts in the lobby of the library near the revolving doors and two escorts at the Circle. The !'scorts will leave every fifteen minutes en route to the South Quad and, if requested, the escorts will deviate their pattern via the North Quad." 
"From twelve to two, girls are requested to call Security and ask for an escort. All she has to say when asking for an escort is where the escort is to pick her up and which quad she is going to--she does not have to give her par­ticular destination," continued Morton. "After two, Security will handle the escorting." 
Morton explained that the escorts will have to present their Escort ID cards without being asked to do so. 
Morton set Friday, April 11, as 

the goal for the first hundred 
volunteers to sign up so as to begin 
preparations for Monday night. 
"We are looking for reliable 

male volunteers to insure the 
success of the service. The Service 
will tentatively run from Sunday 
through Thursday," explained 
Norton. 
Regarding the alleged lack of 

action the University has taken to 
provide the proper safety of its 
female inhabitants, Morton said, 
"Until the University provides the 
proper lighting, this Service is a 
definite necessity. Student 
frustration has necessitated the 
formation of this Service and, 
hopefully, the impetus provided by 
this action will initiate the 
necessary University action." 
There will be an organizational meeting after Dr. Philip Fac­cenda 's Lewis Hall meeting Thursday night in the LaFortune Ballroom for all concerned students. For additional infor­mation, call Rich Morton at 3079. 

Morton is available to discuss the matter with the girls' halls if they desire more information. Any interested students are asked to contact their hall presidents. 
''The ·success of the Service depends on the attitude of he girls and whether they take the Service seriously enough," concluded Morton. 



Tuesday, April 8, 1975
the observer 
world briefs 
DUBLIN (UPI)-The militant Provisional wing of the Irish Republican Army announced Monday its nine-weekold cease­fire in Northern Ireland will continue but it will take action against "truce breakers." 
A statement issued by the outlawed guerrilla group said new orders were going out to IRA units in the wake of a blitz of fighting that has claimed 11 lives and left more than 80 persons injured in the Belfast area since Saturday. 
BOLZANO ITALY (UPI) ­Weekend avalanches triggered by unseasonable weather killed at least 32 persons and 
marooned thousands of tourists and skiers in the Alpine regions of Italy, Switzerland and Austria, authorities reported Monday. 1 
CHARLESTON, W. Va. (UPI)-There was another false alarm Monday in the search for fugitive newspaper heiress Patricia Hearst. 
The Kanawha County sheriff's office said there had been a report of a yellow van and black car in the city carrying persons resembling those being sought in the Hearst case. 
"It was checked out," a deputy said. "Apparently It was just another rumor." 
SAIGON (UPil-Communist forces controlling the northern two-thirds of South Vietnam opened an offensive Monday in the populous Mekong Delta to the south and threateed the country's major source of food. With 18 of the Soth Vietnam's 44 provinces already held by the Communists, major successes in the Delta could trap Saigon In a vise and cost the truncated country much of its rice staple. 
an campus today 

12:30 pm mass, fr. robert griffin, celebrant, Iafortune ballroom. 
3:30 pm --computer course, "advance topic in jet," 113 comp. cen. 
4:30pm --colloquium, by dr. wm. homer, princeton, to be announced. 226 comp. cen. 
4:30 pm --seminar, "hor­monal control of puparlation in flies," gal. life aud. 
7:30-9: 30 pm --dance with fran 
demarco, $2, Iafortune 

8 pm --panel, christian and 
gay, lib. aud. 

8 & 10 pm --film, "it happened 
one night," $1. eng. aud. 

Graduation name cards, announcementsare ready 
Graduating seniors who have not picked up their graduation an­nouncements or name cards should do so by April 15, according to .Joe Henderlong, senior class representative. 
Each senior is entitled to ten free announcements. which are now available in room 222 of the Ad­ministration Building. Extra announcement cards may be bought after April 15 for ten cents t>ach. 
Also available in the same room are order forms for name cards and information packets detailing the programs and provisions for <'ommencement weekend. The deadline for ordering name cards has been extended to April 15, instead of the April 9 date listed on the forms. 
Campus housing 
lottery abolished 
The problems of on-campus housing and a possible lottery should not be present next year, according to Fr. John Mulcahy, director of student residences. "There will be no lottery for on­campus housing next year," stated Mulcahy. 
"Things are running com­paratively the same as last year," continued Mulcahy, "and we can see no problems right now." 
"We're gambling that the same 
number of people will move off 
campus again, and with the ad­
dition of Lewis Hall as a womt>n s 
residence hall, there should be 
adequate housing," he added. 

The freshman quota will be the 
same next year, according to 
Mulcahy, reaching the 1650 level as 
in the past . Returns on housing 
cards are continuing and Mulcahy 
said he will know far more about 
the situation when the April 15 
deadline is reached and a definite 
number of on-campus residents 
will be realized. 

Theology course 
corrections cited 
200 level theology courses are open to any student at Notre Dame or St. Mary"s needing a first theology course. The preliminary course evaluation booklets erroneously state that this level of courses is open only to sophomores, according to Prof O'Brien of the Theology Depart­



J<RAFTWERI< 
PLAYING MUSIC FROM THEIR NUMBER ONE ALBUM-"AUTOBAHN" 
VLU~% (7l!~~~~LAU~ 
THIS SATURDAY! 8 PM! 
MORRIS AUDITORIUM • SOUTH BEND 
ADVANCE 5.50 • DAY OF SHOW 6.50 NOW SELLING AT MORRIS AUDITORIUM; BOOGIE RECORDS. COLLEGE SO, MISHAWAKA; AND ND STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE. •-MAIL ORDERS: SEND MONEY ORDER WITH SELF­ADDRESSED. STAMPED ENVELOPE TO: MORRIS AUDITORIUM, 211 N. MICHIGAN, SOUTH.~END, IN 

The name cards, which are the same color as the announcements, cost $3.50 for 25 or $5.25 for 50. Orders should be dropped off at the Ht>gistrar's Office with a deposit of at least one-dollar. Students who have not or do not pay this deposit will have their cards printed last, llenderlong stated. 
The name cards will be printed and available on April 21 at the Morrissey Loan office. Henderlong noted. Times will be announced later. 
Students who have already picked up their announcements and the information packets can pick up name card orders at the Ht>gistrar's Office. 
llt•nderlong also made two announcements concerning seniors who attended the Senior !'lass Ball. Seniors who had their pictures taken at the formal may pick up their pictures at the l\lorissey Loan office. on Mondays through Fridays from 11:15 a.m. to 12::10 p.m. 
Ht>nderlong also noted that there is a limited supply of wine glasses left from the dance. They will go on sale at the loan office April 13 from 
II :45 to 12:30 for fifty-cents per glass. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame Mtd St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box' Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46SS6. Second class postage paid, Noire Dame, Ind. 46SS6. 
PRE-REGISTRATION PROGRAMS FOR FRESHMAN INTENTS 
Pre-advance registration programs will be conducted for all freshman intent areas on WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9 at 7:00P.M. 
At each program, complete information will be given on the advance registration procedures and on the sophomore year and its relationship to the degree program. 
The meeting places for the programs according to intent area are as follows: 
Arts and Letters Intents Washington Hall Business Administration Intents Hayess-Healy Center, Room 122 (A through Gat 7:00P.M., H through 0 at 8:00P.M., 
P through Z at 9:00P.M.) 
Engineering Intents 

Aerospace & Mechanical Architecture Chemical Civil Electrical Engineering Science Metallurgical 
Scien'"' Intents 

Biology Chemistry & Biochemistry Earth Sciences Mathematics Microbiology Physics PreprofessionaI 
A special pre-advance registration program for Arts and Letters lmants planning to enter the 1-2-1-Program will be held on THURSDAY, APRIL 10 at 
7:00 P.M. in Room 204, O'S~aughnessey Hall 
A~.L FRESHMEN ARE REQUIRED TO ATTEND THE ·.··:_PROGRAM OF THE COLLEGE OR DEPARTMENT OF THEIR INTENT• 
NOW 
RIDGE ROAD 
AND 
LISTEN 


~Sizu/a~
. NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS 
on U.S. 31 Ntween lliles. So. B•d-FrM Parkin,-68~Jso· 

GUS'S 
IN THE OPEN MALL AT TOWN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER 
TUESDAY NIGHT IS 
NOTRE· DAME & ST. MARY'S NIGHT 
60 oz. PITCHERS $1.50 
MUSIC BY ALLAN DOBBS 
FOLK · ROCK · BLUES 
Engineering Bldg., Room 301, 302, 303 
Architecture Bldg., Room 411 
Radiation Lab., Conference Room 
Engineering Bldg., Room 205 
Engineering Bldg., Room 212 
Engineering Bldg., Room 22 
Engineering Bldg., Room 5 
Haggar Hall Auditorium Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 123 Earth Science Bldg., Room 101 Computer-Mathematics Bldg., Room 226 Galvin Life Science Center, Room 109 Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 127 



. ~­
-.t ..... 
. ----.­
the observer 

Universal sponsored 
by Mariannne Schulte Staff Reporter 
The month of April begins another series of Universal Notre Dame nights throughout the world. 
Universal Notre Dame Night is an annual event which occurs in April at many of the extensive Notre Dame Alumni Clubs, which are located in some 165 cities in the 
U.S. and some international locations. 
At these llniversal Notre Dame nights, speakers from the university travel to these dif­ferent clubs and lecture on the many diverse aspects of the Notre Dame community, other than athletics, which are a part of the contemporary scene at their alma mater. 
John Neseson, a graduate of the llniversity in 1903, established the first llniversalNotre Dame night in 1924. Originally intended to be held at all alumni clubs on the same night in April every year, the event occurs at \'arious dates throughout the month of April at each club's choice. 
"The Notre Dame Alumni 
Association operates primarily 
through a club situation to achieve 
the goal of keeping the alumni 
united as a Notre Dame family and 
informed with the current hap­
penings in the Notre Dame com­
munity," Tom Pagna, executive 
directoor of the Notre Dame 
Alumni Association, said 
yesterday. Appriximately fifty­
three to fifty-five thousand alumni 
are geographically dispersed 
across the country and in cities 
outside the continental U.S., in­
cluding Alaska, Hawaii, Inn­
sbruck, and Rome. 
"These alumni clubs are 
ND-SMC women 
Sports 
by Mary Pinard 
Staff Reporter 

An ad hoc committee met last 
week to discuss joint-sport teams 
between St. Mary's and Notre 
Dame women. Following the 
meeting, Stevie Wernig, assistant 
to the vice-president for student 
affairs, said; "There will be 
combined teams between St. 
Mary's and Notre Dame women in 
crew, fencing, gymnastics, sailing 
and skiing next year. Because 
these teams require special 
equipment, it is better to combine 
the teams and share the equipt­
ment". 
Sports is relatively new at St. 
Mary's, said Wernig, but looks 
promising. There was much more 
interest than expected this year in 
intramural sports, especially for 
volleyball. Any female student 
interested is eligible to try out for 
these teams next year. 
Members of the committee from 
Notre Dame were Fr. Edmund 
Joyce, Sr. Dolores Miriam, Colonel 
Stevens. Edward Krause and 
llominick Napolitano. Napolitano 
said that the interest and support 
would have to come from the 
students. "We will have to just try 
it out--that's the only way to know 
how well the teams will work", he 
stated. 
To further the growing interest 
in sports at St. Mary's, any in­
coming freshman who was on a 
team in high school or indicates an 
interest in a particular sport on her 
STEWART MCGUIRE SHOES 
With the Spring 
Step cushion , DAD & FAMILY 503 N. B~aine Ave. So. Bend 234-4469 
Notre Da1ne nights by Alu1nni Clubs 
primarily socially oriented," Pagna cited. Their main activities include picnics, Communion breakfasts, 'send off' dinners for Notre Dame recruits, and reception dinners for recently graduated ND students to welcome them into the alumni club in their area. 
"In the past, athletics have been the major tie linking the alumni with the University," Pagna ex­plained. "Now more than ever since Notre Dame has initiated co­education into their program, athletics are continuing to be underplayed, and more emphasis is being placed on academics." 
Pagna continued, "It is the purpose of these 'nights' to call to the attention of the alumni those facets of Notre Dame life other than athletics. Topics of the lec­tures might inlcude academics, curriculum, religious life on campus living in general." 
The theme of the 1975 universal Notre Dame nights is "How Others See Us." Part of the 1975 program focuses on the North Central Ac­creditation Report of the university , which reviews the standing of the institution's strengths and areas of concern. ''Areas of concern is used as a more polite term for weaknesses," Pagna clarified. 
Speakers at the 'nights' included members from both the ad­ministration and the faculty, whose expenses are are paid for by the individual alumni clubs themselves.. 
The requests for speakers for the nights are complied with, ac­cording_ to Pagna, regardless of the membership size of the club itself. "In my eleven years at Notre Dame as a football coach, I lectured at eighty different dubs. 

combined 
application, will receive a letter during the summer inviting her to various meetings in the fall shout her sport, Wernig said. Also, the sports themselves and tryouts will be more highly publicized. There inlcuding both the larger clubs like Denver, New York, and New Orleans, and down to the smaller ones like Terre Haute." 
was  a  problem  this  year  with  
people  not  knowing  times  and  
places  of  tryouts, Wernig  ob­ 

In some cases when a speaker is requested and the club's treasury cannot afford the expenses ex­penses of the speaker, the ex­penses are then assumed by the Alumni Association itself, Pagna siad. 
This year's program consists of some twenty to twenty-two speakers, including University President Fr. · Hesburgh, Provost Fr. James Burtchaell, Executive Vice-President of Public Relations and Development. The most heavily requested speakers are those well-informed about the academics and finances of the university, Pagna noted. 
Pagna concluded by expressing a desire for students now at Notre Dame to attain a better acquaintance of the puropses, activities, and opportunities af­forded through the ;dumni clubs, Beyond the more selfish motive of being directed toward job op­portunities through club con­nections. the individual clubs offer warm welcomes into new, unfamiliar communities and a chance to remain in touch with other Notre Dame fellows who share the same fond memories of their alma mater, he said. 
PANEL DISCUSSION: 



CHRISTIAN AND GAY 
a discussion of homosexuality 
MORTON KELSEY 

and two discussants 
TONIGHT April 8, 8:00 pm Library Auditorium 
SPONSORED BY CAMPUS MINISTRY 


It Happened 
Clark Gable One Night Claudette Colbert 
Tuesday and Wednesday 
EngineeringAud. 
Admission is $1.00 Cinema 75 patrons free 




The Observer 
on independent student newspaper Founded November 3, 1966 

Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief Bob Zogas Business Manager Bob McManus Advertising Manager 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

AI Rutherford, Managing Editor; Fred Graver, Executive Editor; Jim Eder, Editorial Editor Kt•n Girouard, News Editor; Pat Hanifin, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Ed•tor KPn Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; TomO'Neil, Features Editor lhris Smith, Photo Editor 
Editori~ls: 283-8661 News: 283-1715 Businen: 283-7471 
Tuesday, April 8, 1975 

Open House Today 
Beginning lonighl The Observer is hosling ils second annual Open House. The members of lhe staff are inviling all members of lhe Nolre Dame-Sl. Mary's community !o visil the Observer offices in LaFortune belween 7:30 p.m. and midnighl lonighl lhrough Thur­sday. 
The purpose of lhe 01-en House is simple: lo bring logelher those who read lhe paper wilh lhose who pul il logelher. ll is loo easy lo associale the Observer wilh one's lunch hour menu wilhout con­sidering the work and effort lhat goes inlo publishing a daily college newspaper. On the other hand, il is too easy for lhose who write, and work production lo fail lo see beyond the fourlh floor of LaForlune lo lhe readership lhey serve. 
Allhough The Observer is ad­vertised as an independenl student newspaper (or perhaps because of !his), il has a responsibilily lhat exlends beyond lhe sludents to lhe communily al large. This paper provides a service lo lhis com­munily by reporting lhe news and giving appropriale editorial commenl. 
The Observer, however, could nol exisl wilhoul ils readership. The work of ils large slaff (nearly 
200) would be fruitless if not for lhe fact lhallhe work is read every day by a large portion of lhe com­munily. In facl, The Observer is dependenl on lhe studenls lo provide lhe man power for each issue. 
The Open House is an op­porlunily for all members of lhe campus to learn somelhing more aboul the newspaper upon whose services il relies every day. In a real sense The Observer belongs to all lhe sludenls if for no other reason lhan lhe annual sub­scription fee each studenl is asked to pay. The criticisms and com­menls in lhe Lellers lo lhe Edilor of recenl weeks have illuslraled a sludenl concern over lhis newspaper. 
The Open House provides an opporlunily for lhe airing of such constructive criticism. By holding !he Open House, The Observer is commilled lo openness wilh lhose who read the paper in lhe hope that !hose readers will, in lurn be open !o the problems of a daily college newspaper. 
The Open House is finally an invilalion to all sludents lo join lhe Observer slaff. The Observer needs sludenls as wrilers and production and layoul slaff. The more sludenls invovled in daily work, !he beller lhe final producl will be. 
The Editorial Board 


DOONESBURY 
CAR£R/t.! CAK&Rit / 


YOfJ KNOIU, I(JifAT THIS COUNTRY MI/N, Yai'VE GOT 
Ne&/JS IS II (l)I1PR8f&N51V& 7HE 5/iNS!TIVITY 
PtANT{fiR£ Pt.tlN-TO K#P I ./PL./INT 01R£ OtJT 

OF THE HJINOS /UHY /)(}N'T 
HEY, BERT­
'<> OF HACKS H6'1, MIKe I LIKE Y()(JI MIST MY
YOtJGOFlY 
8lOSSOM5_
1 II KIT&? 
I(JIUYA? 
\
'#f

~i
J?J;cc. ~ 
010 YOU KNOIU THIIT 45~ OFIIU PRIVIIT&"L-Y at/NEO PlANTS GO TO 

8&0 !NA%f1U/11£L-Y ,-----,or-"L. ...---Fti<TIUZ€lJ.?_I 
22pic:as' 

Visit Vietnam land 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii fred rJraver 
Step right up, ladies and gents, for the thrill of a lifetime. Just constructed on the outskirts of an Indian Reservation in New 1\lexico: VIF;TNAMLAND 1!! Celebrating twenty years and fifty thousand lives spent to give the people of South Vietnam all the Ih'mocracy that American technology and know-how could produce. 
!<'our hundred rides and exhibits, sponsored by the vast Military­Industrial Complex. Dedicated on July 4, 1976, by President Gerald Ford. who said, "what a wonderful way to learn history." 
Visit an actual Vietnamese officers club. Dance with the Saigon lovelies. Drink expensive American liquor while your kids enjoy playing bumper cars with replicas of the 1\Iercedes-Benz automobiles driven by high officials in the Vietnamese Army. 
View the Dow Chemical exhibit: "The Blazing Glory of Napalm." 
Take a ride in an American tank, jeep or fighter plane. Feel the glee of being "right on target" when you shoot down gooks who appear before your very machine gun turret. 
Take time out to sample the delights of the Mekong Delta, where ~·ou can ride on a real American cruiser and shoot at anything that moves. 
Stop in an actual American military holding. View soldiers taking heroin, smoking dope, drinking beer, cleaning their Wl'apons. At night. don't miss the unforgetable shoo tout. 
After your tour through Vietnam, cross through a replica of the Pentagon into the "Home Front." While in the Pentagon, you are invited to purchase souvenirs of our Vietnam involvement at one of the many concession areas provided. . 
Your friends back home will thrill when you present them with a "II is and Hers" set of black pajamas. Or, how about a set of punji ~tick coasters? One sure present, never failing to bring a smile, is the official mortar shell cocktail glass set. What a hit at the bar­becues' 
Looking for something for that little boy in your life? The Rust <'alley outfit is just what the military jury ordered. Everything is included: Husty Calley rifle, Rusty Calley helmet, Rusty Calley knife, Husty Calley ''Off the Gooks" stickers, even a Rusty Calley map of key Vietnamese villages "possibly held by Communists." 
And we must not forget the little girls!! The Pentagon concession stands offer a wide variety of Vietnamese Orphan dolls. They walk tthose of them with legsl, they talk tpull the string and hear ten native Vietnamese phrases, including "Don't shoot. I'm a civilian."). and many of them work as double agents for the \'ietcong. 
After your stop in the Pentagon, move right into the Home Front section of Vietnamland. Take a grandstand seat as the Kent State l\lassacre is enacted before your eyes, to the tune of <'rosby, Stills, Nash and Young singing "Ohio." 
!\loving right along. you can't miss the "Hall of the Presidents." HPal·life replicas of Harry Truman, Dwight Eisenhower, Jack Kmnedv. Lvndon .Johnson. Richard Nixon and Jerry Ford do all they can to absolve themselves from the blame for our mvolvemt>nt in \.'ietnam. In the end, five of the Presidents gang up on Nixon. 
For a special balance, make usre you visit the "Hall of the C:mdidates." where Hubert Humphrey, Gene McCarthy and l;Porge 1\lcGovern all spell their political demise "s-t-o-p-t-h-e-w-a­
r". 
Out in the main field. Abbie Hoffman and Jerry Hubin amuse the kiddies with their Yippie antics. See them throw rocks. bottles and hag~ of human Pxcrement at Chicago Police as a protest against the war. Narrated by· Allen Ginsberg, with commentary by 1\ ichard Dalev. 
Walk through "media row." and see the amazing distortion machines used by many of the leading networks and news publications to tell the American people about the war. 
A special dramatization will be presented, entitled "One Family." It is the story of a mother and father who view their children. and the children of their friends. as they return from \'ietnam. They go from supporting the war to brutal indignance as thev see the hovs come home whacked out on .Junk, without their limhs. unemployed, and I most effective of all) dead. The suspense rpaches fever pitch when one of the ho:vs doesn't come home at all, hut is seen on the evening news as the director of a Vietcong POW camp. 
The "Silent Majority" room is then highlighted. You will be allowed to make your own moral judgement on the war. as various governmt>nt officials view from a sound-proof booth. 
Hungry? You should be' Have a meal you won't forget in our rt>plica Vietnamese Village. Delight to a villager feast of rice. Thrill to the occasional MIG bombing runs. Tingle to the m"ystery of not knowing if the waiter is one of ours or one of theirs. 
Hotel accomodations provided in a real-life POW camp, com­plete with tiger cages. torture pits, and special American Press areas. where you will be allowed to play volleyball and make confessions. 
This is the opportunity of a lifetime to remember the Vietnam war as it really happened. Your kids won't be able to wait till they can tell their friends at home what the war was really like. 

by Garry Trudeau the observer 
00 YOU /CAR&?/ 
Night Editor: Maggie Waltman Asst. Night Editor: Bob Brink Layout Staff: Maureen Sajbel, Julie Walsh 
Bob Varretonni 
Day Ed1•u• . Bob Radziewicz Copy Reader: Ken Bradford Editorials: Dan Sanche£· 
Features: Tom O'Neil, Martha Fanning Sports: Bill Brink, Ernie Torrlero 

Typists: Neil Viii, Anne Peeler, Barb Norcross, Karen Hinks Compugraphic: Chip Spina Night Controllers: Howard Halle and Tim Murphy Picture Screener: Albert D'Antonio Ad Layout: Tom Whelan, Bob Tracey 

Tuesday, April 8, 1975 
the observer 
5 

the past and future of dan devine 
Tlw following :u·ticll' was publishl'd Sunday, :\lard1 :w. in thP Chattanooga Timl's by thl' .\ssodatt'd l'rt'ss. It was written by Will 
(;rimsll'~·. 
I 
l 
~ 
I I I l l 
j 
l I I I 
I I 
I 
-


the observer Tuesday, April a, 1975 
To raise gay consciousness 
NOTHF BAME STlJOFI\ I I'NJO"' PRESENTS 
ND sponsors panel discussion :SANTANAt'
b~ And~ Prasrhak manifest a pastoral concern to the Sh• f£ H l'portl'r gay community, according to Fr. 
The Notre I>ame Campus .John Strazzo. organizer of the 1\1 inistry is sponsoring a panel discussion. discussion tinight at B p.m. in the FPatured speaker on the panel Library Auditorium. The purpose will be Morton Kelsey, a member of the discussion will be to raise of the Education Department and a l'Onsciousness to the gay ex­.Jungian psychologist. Kelsey is an pt>rit•ncc on campus and to Episcopal minister who has done a . 
Nominations sought 
for St. Mary's award 
by Pattit' Cooney Starr Ht'porter 

Nominations for the Lumen Christi Award will be accepted from any person in the St. Mary's community until April 18. Anyone wishing to submit nominations must forward supporting letters to Stevie Wernig, assistant to the vice-president of student affairs,in 
LeMans Hall. 
The SMC Student Affairs Council 
has changed the criteria for the 
award to the following: 
"The Lumen Christi Award shall 
be considered, hut not necessarily 
given, annually. Only under ex­
traordinary circumstances shall 
more than one award be given per 
year." 
For the last two years the award 
Sign-up deadline set for SMC graduation housing 
The deadline for all St. Mary's students who wish to remain on campus for spring graduation exercises will be Sunday, April 13, according to Marianne Rinella, 
. chairman of the graduation housing committee. Sign-up sheets can be found at the hall desk. 
Rinella also announced that seniors will be allowed to stay in their rooms, as always; un­
i dergraduates will be moved into Regina; and parents of graduating seniors will be housed in both 
-ERRATUM 
ThP April 4 Obst•n'l'r printed a pil'lurP which mistakenly iden­t ifiPd l>t>bbie Hale as the SMC lnl'IIH; Director. Not only is l>t'IJbiP Hale not the SMC director. but the picturt' was really of .loanie llurlacht•r. vice-president for acadt•mic affairs of the SMC studPnt body. SMC lnPIRG is still 10 tis organizational stage and has not dec!Pd any directors. 
Attention All SMC Students 
Petitions now being accepted for class positions -'75-'76 
Social Commission 
1. 
Social Commissioner 

2. 
Movie Coordinator 

3. 
Special Events Coordinator 

4. 
Publicity & Public Relations 

5. 
Secretary-Treasurer 

6. 
Hall Representatives 


Look for instructions in SMC Dining Hall 
For info call Margie 4156 or Mary Ellen 4175 
l.·· Deadline for petitions ­F noon Friday April 11 
,~--------------~~--------~ 
~ 
has been given to two students who were usually active in student government. "Service to the community is as valid to the college but has not been given enough credit in the past," Wernig noted. 
"The award shall be given to an outstanding member of the Senior Class who has demonstrated leadership and loyalty to Saint Mary's College and has made a significant contribution to the College Community. The name of the recipient is not announced until Commencement." 
Persons submitting letters for the award are requested to write "Lumen Christi Nomination" on the face of the envelope. 
Lemans and McCandless. Rinella noted that seniors will be responsible for obtaining the key for their parent's room and taking care of the linen . 
All undergrad women who will be staying on to help with the graduation program will not have to pay for their rooms. Those who are staying to see friends graduate will have to pay for room. Any questions should be directed to Marianne Rinella at 5764. 
BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY 
Good PotentiaI I nco me No Age Barrier Full or Part Time Contact D. A. Doxie 503 N. Blaine Ave. South Bend, IN 
( 219) 234-4469 
large amount of counseling for homosexuals. His thirty-minute talk will not only encompass the 
topic of homosexuality, but also the aspect of bisexuality. 
Following Kelsey's talk. two doctoral students from Notre Dame will also present their positions. ( lne will be speaking from personal <'xperiences and the other from a pastoral position. 
Fr. Jim Buckley, a pastoral tht•ologian at Notre Dame will be the moderator for the event. Buckley i.s presently doing Pastoral counseling at St. Joseph's hospital in South Bend. 
"Historically. the official at­titude of the Church has been to l'ondemn and attempt to change the homosexual." according to Struzzo. liP sees this discussion as an attempt to understand the homosexual on the part of both the Church and the University. "It rPpresents the changing mood of IhPChurch towards homosexuals." he said. 
lkl'ausc of the heavy "anti" sentiment that has cxisted toward the gay l'Ommunity. organizers of the discussion will attempt to accentuate the position of un­derstanding towards them. 
:\cl'ording to Struzzo. there has been little understanding to the gay l'ommunity and the Church is finally realizing that it does have a definite commitment to the gay l'Ommun· 


HOW ARE THINGS AT HOME? 
Long distance still is the next best thing to being there. And you can save money by calling nights or weekends. 




@Indiana Bell 

• '. '.' .·' ;·' •• ;~. '. --\ \ \ ., ; \ ' •• l 
•' t' Iff ,' ,• •' ',' '.' 
..... ' t \ . ,· .... ,· .-; ~ ' • • , : t 1 • • o' I t' t >' ·' ,• 
...... ' 


AND SPECIAL GUEST 





MUDDY WATERS 
IN CONCERT AN TOSTAL WEEKEND FRIDAY APRIL 18 

8:00 P.M. 
NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC & 
CONVOCATION CENTER 

TICKETS NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET ; ! 
OFFICE & A.C.C. BOX OFFICE 
t 
~---.--P~tc~-s~ .. __ .. _$5.so, $4.so, _$3.oo J­
. 

Tuesday, April 8, 1975 
the observer 
7 

Jun"ior officers seek applications to fill posit,~h~E! OV~t m~~!!,i~!pli~~r,...
by Ken Bradford Copy Editor 

Juniors interested in management or bartending positions with next year's Senior Bar must submit applications to the junior class officers by Mon­day, April 14, according to Junior Class President Augusto Grace. 
Three major positions, including manager, assistant manager and business manager, will be open in addition to an unknown number of bartending positions. 
Applications should include, in addition to a regular resume, a statement of intention on why the student is applying and what he or she plans to achieve at the Senior Bar, Grace said. The application should also include two University references. 
The Senior Bar manager, Grace stated, should be able to co­ordinate people, be honest and knowledgeable of the goals of the Senior Class. In addition, the manager should have some marketing skills, but the applicant will be judged on his qualifications rather than his experience, Grace noted. . 
The assistant manager is responsible for arranging specials, receiving orders, planning work tenance Grace said. 
Grac~ stated the business manager should possess basic business skills and will be responsible for the checking system, the bookkeeping and the 
inventories. 
The managerial positions are rewarded by salaries paid by the Office for Student Affairs. Grace would not reveal the exact salary figures but termed them "very generous." 
Bartenders will be paid by the hour and will need to obtain a bartender's license. Grace said it is essential that next year's bar­tenders be chosen soon so the licenses may be procured and the Senior Bar could open earlier next year. 
The junior class officers will 
recommendations to th~ student 
affairs office. Grace said the of­
ficers will probably..select two 
persons for each po~Ibon and ~e 
continuing . can~Idates will 
probably be mterv1ewed. 
Grace advised all interested applicants to apply for all three positions. He said junior girls are especially encouraged to apply, noting the Senior Bar could use some input from qualified women. 
"The Senior Bar should be a.' learning experience for its i workers," Grace said. He added;· that the club will provide service , for seniors and not just make , money. ! 
Grace noted that anyone with · ideas for next year's Senior Bar should relay them to the junior class officers. 


LUNCH AT BULLA 
with 

Prof. Joe Evans 
Meet the faculty in an informal setting on 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9th 
between 12-1:15 
ANNOUNCEMENT 
Graduate Student Union 
Election Nominations 
Applications now being accepted for the offices of President, Vice President, and Secretary-Treasurer. Submit nominations to Bill Smith-Hinds or Carol, 1200 Lib. 


7 Stylists 
Full Time Manicurl'st Whatever the fashion Full Service Salon 
Edison & St. Rd. 23  
only  'I>  mile  Southeast  of  
campus  1  
(across  from  Kentucky  
Fried  Chicken  and  the  
Linebacker)  FOR  
MEN  



CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Need Riders to Pittsburgh April 11 -Call 4888 
Help Wanted Pandoras Books 233­2342 
Wanted: 2 Notre Dame Football Banners tor 1970 Cotton Bowl Victory. Size 18" by 36". Will pay reasonable price. Jay Wright 219­287-6084 
Two female roommates needed to share apartment at Campus View tor next year. If interested, please call 232-4069 
Notre Dame co-ed sales rep. wanted to sell sport and bicen­tennial awards & souvenirs. Please send resume and photograph to AKK Inc. 5169 Wooster Rd. Cintti, Ohio 45226 
FOR SALE 

2 tixs for Jesus Christ Super Star at Morris Civic on April 9 at price. Greg 1779 
For Sale! Jensen model 3 spkrs. One mo. old-must sell-best offer. Call Rich at 1175 
3-speed bike. Vulcanized, pneumatic tires. Brent, 20 Pangborn, 8301. 
Student typewriter desk $10. Electric 4 burner stove $30. G. E. 8 Cu. Ft. Refrigerator $40. Oc­cussional Chairs $15-25. Small sofa & chairs $45. 6 piece chrome breakfast set $70. Bridge & end table lamps $5. Call 234-3428 
NOTICES 

Need help with term papers, reports, etc.? Write Michiana Reference Service tor rates and details. P.O. Box 6247 South Bend, Ind. 46615 
Typing, editing, disertation 5pecialists. IBM Special Symbols. Linda's Letters 289-5193 
Will do typing. experieflced, themes, etc. Call 233-8512 
Girls! Here is your chance! I am a junior and THE dashing young Navy Operations Officer. I request the honor of your company for the annual Spring Navy Ball. Call Jerry 887:i. 
NOW RENTING CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS FOR '75-'76 SCHOOL YEAR. BOTH 1 & 2 BEDROOM APARTMENTS AVAILABLE. CALL 272-1441 FOR INFORMATION. 
SM·ME D. Dog to be given away. Good watch dog. Call 289-2371 
Accurate, fast typing. North east section of South Bend. Reasonable. 
Phone 232-0746 
TICKETS FOR THIS SATUR­DAY'S KRAFTWERK & GREENSLADE CONCERT AT MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
ARE  NOW  ON  SALE  AT  THE  
STUDENT  UNION  TICKET  
OFFICE.  

Men and women with two years of college left! Want to invest six weeks this summer and assure yourself a second career as an Army Officer upon graduation? Earn approximately $500.00 this summer and gain self-confidence! No obligation. For information contact CPT Weimer at 283-6265 about Army ROTC Basic Camp. 
ND-SMC Council tor Retarded Dance Wed. 7:30-10 pm. Kathy 284­4712 
Lunch  at  Bulla  Shed  with  Joe  
Evans  -Wednesday,  April  9th  
between 12-1:15 p.m.  

Jain, Jim & Maryann Roemer ar ~ the Campus Ministry Staff for a 24 hour retreat on human sexuality. Sat. April 12th. Sign up in Campus Ministry 
FOR RENT 
2 rooms-private: $50. Kitchen, rides. 233-1329 
House for rent, 1 mile from campus, ready for immediate occupancy. 233-6438 
1 bedroom furnished apartment 2 blocks south of campus on N.D. Ave. Call 272-6358 evenings 
6 bedroom house for rent, fur­nished for next year within "2 mile of campus 233-2613 
For summer: 1 large house furnished. Also cottage-summer & fall-furnished. 272-6174 
Summer or Winter Students. 4 bedroom house fully furnished, washer & dryer. Equipped with burglar alarm system. Free trash removal. Call Charles Moore 232­7180. Call after 4:30pm 
For Summer-4 bedroom house and ·Or 2 room apartment with kitchen. 
Both furnished 12 mile from campus. 234-6593 
LOST & FOUND 
LOST 1975 class ring MKM, 13th floor library. Mark 287-4551­Reward 
Lost: 1 pr. girl's glasses, brown between BP & Lib. Wed. nite. Call Ann 4904 
Lost: one room key no. 419, one silver key. If found please call Pattie, 4621 
Lost, black & white female cat named Partner. If found, contact Colleen at 288-5506. Last seen near Alumni 
PERSONALS 
Panel discussion on "Christian and Gay" Tues. April 8 at 8 00 p m. in Library Auditorium p,,~scdation by Morton Kelsey 
Dear Tee and Hee, If I were a Beethoven ;· d ;te a symphony for you If I were a Frank Loyd;;, .,ht I'd design a monument engrc•. . ; with your names 
If I were a Van Gogh 1',: ··•ve an 
ear to each of you And if I were a Shakesp< you'd be in all my plays. 
But I am only a knit.wit I sad to 
say, Trying to thank you through all these ways' 
For being. p 
Thanks everybody. Especially: Murph, Tommy, Mary Sue, Mary E. Bill, Mary J., '1om, Matt, Terry, Paula, David, Mary S., Kathy, Diane, Eileen, P.J., 
Dan, Mindie, Sean(even though you couldn't come>. ~'ld floor Regina South. I had a great time-See you soon. 
Cindie 
To Kevin Horton: What could have been a brilliant 

1.. 
football ,;areer at Notre Dame came to ern abrupt end on Satur­day. Coach D. lost the speed he was looking tor in his backfield. Best Wishes... 4 A-8 

the observer Tuesday, April 8, 1975 
------------~~~--~-----­
Golfers bow to Indiana: 


beat Wisconsin-Whitewater 
h.v Tom Krunt>k t-l ·Sullivan proved himself to regards as his "Mr. Consistency," 

<'old weather notwithstanding, he a prophet, as two days later, with a 74. The nines were 37-37 and lht• Notre Damt• golf team has after a good day of practice, the the round was his eighth straight in finished its first two dual matches Irish knocked off the llnviersity of l'Ompetition under 78. or the ~·ear and t•nded up with a Wisconsin-Whitewater, :l84 to 411. The rest of the Irish were knotted mark of one win and one loss. The Also slated to compete in the meet with 79s. Included in this Irish will nt>ed to play well in the was the University of Wisconsin­number wPre .Jim Culveyhouse, 1>"~ 1 1\\!. wPPk, as they face two of l.a Crosse. but due to an Eddie Whelan. and Hich Knee. .~R· top midwPst teams in Western t'mPrgency. wPre unable to attend. 1\nPe. a freshman from Michigan and Indiana State. ThP Irish wPre gifted during the Wilmington. De.. hit an incredible 
ThP first dual ml•et of the season dav with five sub-80 rounds at the IB fairways. and 16 greens, 
for the Irish was held on Saturday Btirke l\1Pmorial Course, even although encountering putting 
m Bloomington. on the Indiana though the weather and ground <iiffil'ulties on. the way. 
llniversilv course. Notre Dame conditions were not dose to being The future for the golf team will round the going tough in the 38 idt>al. Burda. the team co-captain l'ome to light shortly. They will dPgrPl' temperature and gusty from Aptos. Calif., again led the have to face Western Michigan winds. losing to the Hoosiers, 379 to way with a brilliant two-over par WPdnesday at the Kalamazoo Golf :1\l!l. I.ow scorer for the Irish was 7:l. Burda fired a two-under 34 on ('ourse. This is a team that is .Jpff Burda who fired a five-over par thefront nine. thanks to birdies on looking for revenge after last lti. Nt•xt in line for Notre Dame the first two holes. On number one, ~·ear's 29 stoke drubbing by the was l'aul Koprowski with a 78. the senior rammed home a 17-foot Irish at the Burke. Following that :\ftpr the match. Coach Noel putt and on two it was a 15-foot putt match. the team will return home o·sulliv<tn was not entirely for the birdie three. On the back for a Friday match at 1 p.m. displt•ased with his team's per­side Burda shot a four-over 39, against Indiana State University, formanct•. "We did not play that which induded a 20-foot birdie putt the team that edged past Notre wdl. hut considering that we didn't on number 14 that was captured on llamt• for the Invitational Title have the chance to prepare as well film by the WSBT camera crew held here during the fall. The as \\'P might have liked to. I am not !'overing the event. public is invited to all Notre Dame that upset by the way we played. Hight behind Burda was Paul hom(' matches. and admission is 
\\'t''ll improve." 1\oprowaki. who O'Sullivan free. 
Net:rnen downed by Ohio state: ho:rne opener today vs. Indiana 
h~· .John \'int•t>nt 
"We fought them right down to the 

sixth singles as Juan Inchauste 
wire. "I was really proud of the 
ll'altzed by Bill Hales 6-1, 6-4.

It was a long day of action team. They didn't give up." 
In first doubles Ohio State's Playing in a three-hour first (;onzalez and Botica defeated JohnSaturday, but the Notre Dame 
tennis team ended up on the short 'ingles marthon Notre Dame's Carrico and Chris Kane 6-1, 6-4 toPnd as they dropped a closely 
fought decision to a strong Ohio Handy Stehlik kept his 5-0 record hand them their second loss of the intact as he defeated Francis season against four victories.
State team 5-4 before 500 spec­(;onzalez 6-7, 7-6. 6-4 in a tension The Irish's Randy Stehlik andtators at the new Tennis East packed battle that had the crowd junior Mike O'Donnell combined to Indoor Complex inn Columbus. It applauding every point. Stehlik Pdge by Keith Baily and Muguelwas the first loss of the season for lost the first set on a tie-breaker (5-Braschi in second double Afterthe Irish in seven matches while it 4l, but rebounded in the second set dropping their first set 0-6, theybrought the Buckeyes record to 4-4. 
to win on another tie-breaker. In bounced back to take the second"That was a tough one to lose," the third set the Irish sophomore and third bv scores of 6-4, 7-6admitted Irish coach Tom Fallon. 
used bullet-like shots to maintain re~pectively .· serve and break the highly ranked Notre Dame's Inchauste brothers
Women's Open 
Puerto Rican import. lost in third doubles<>-~. 3-6 6-4 to In second singles action Ohio Dave Patten and Rill Hales. It was
set for Thursday 
State's Dave Pattern defeated the third loss of the season for the l'aptain John Carrico 6-4, 6-4 in a Irish tandem. straight two-set match. The loss Notre l>ame meets a formidableThe Notre Dame Women's Golf put Carril'o 's season mark at 3-3. opponent this afternoon as they('Jub is sponsoring the Notre Dame Frshman Brian Hainline was face off against Indiana at 3:00Wompn's Open Thursday April 10 Pdged out in third singles by the p.m. at the Courtney Tennis
at I :00 p.m. 
Buckeye's .John Botica. In the Cmter. weather permitmg. ·Awards will be given for the top opening set Botica won handily 6-1, Otherwise, they will play indoorstPn finishers with trophies going to hut Hainline fought back to take at 2:00p.m.
thP mPdalist and runner-up. All ND 
the second li-3. He lost' ·the third by 

womt•n are invited to play 
FCA meeting set
the identical score.

t•spt>cially those who wish to play 
Notre Dame's Ron Inchauste

on thP womt>n's golf team. There Pgt>d by Keith Bailey 7-5 in the first The Notre Dame chapter of thewill be graduatP and faculty sPt of fourth singles action, but he l•'pllowship of Christian Athletescompdition also. 
l'ouldn 't hang on so he dropped the will mPet on Wednesday, April 9Anyon<' wishing to sign up for the 1st two !l-7, (i-0. The loss put the and 7:00PM in the chapel of St.
tournamPnt should call the 
senior from Bolivia's mark at 4-2. Edwards Hall. The guest speakerphysical Pducation department at ('hris Kane raised his season will be Brother Joseph McTaggart. 
ti222 lwfore April 10 anytime record to ti-0 in fifth singles as he llis tentative topic will be "ThehetwPPn !I and 5. Anyone interested dt>feated Ohio State's Miguel lknefits Derived from jSpiritual10 the \\'ompn 's Golf Club should Braschi 7-6. 6-4. The Irish also took Ht>adings."
contact !•:lien Hughes at 8020. 

CAPTAIN JEFF BURDA was low scorer for the Irish in both their weekend matches. Notre Dame beat Wisconsin-Whitewater after losing to Indiana Saturday. 
General Meeting 
Graduate Student-Union Wed., April 9, 
12:20 
Lib. Auditorium 
IMPORTANT NOTICE MOVIE BIDS THIS WEEK ONLY 
Bids for movie dates next semester will be taken this week (April 7-11) only. Call Student Union Film Coordinator, Mike O'Connor, at 6244, from 12:30-1:30pm Mon. thru Fri., or leave a written request with the secretary in Fr. Schlaver's Student Ac­tivities Office, 1st floor, LaFortune. Date preference wi II be awarded by lottery. Priority will be given to clubs and organizations which did not show a film this semester. It is not necessary to plan a specific film at this time, but bids must be made sometime this week to make your club, organization or hall eligible for a date next semester. 


r---------------------------------------­
1 "THE PAN" ! 
! DEEP DISH PIZZA ! 
I for fhe I 
I I
I N.D. & S.M.C. COMMUNITY 
I 
IT'S AS CLOSE
I 
I 
AS YOUR PHONE
I 

I I I 
277-1221 or 277-1222 
I I I I 



I FREE DELIVERY I
SPECIAL OFFER
I 

I on or off-campus I I
8 pack of 16 oz.
I I 
I -also quick pickup service I 
.. I 7 up & Pepsi for $1 I 
I II with purchase of large or med Pizza. I 
J._.!07 £!..X!~WA YNORTI!_~~~~~!~2!!!~!~~~~N..-.I 











