
server 

university of notre dome -st. mary's college 
Vol. IX No. 116 '1 Thursday, April 17, 1975 
Fate of old Government Officials unknown 
Cambodia falls to communists 
by United Press International The Cambodian government surrendered Thursday to Communist-~ed 
Khmer Rouge insurgents who captured Phnom Penh, the Cambodtan embassy in Bangkok reported. _ 
"The government surrendered al 7 a.m." (8 p.m. . /
said Col. Phin Oum, the military attache of the Ca ._ .-_ -­
Bangkok. 
There were no indications what might have happened to Cambodian officials, including Long Boret, the prime minister, or to the journalists who remained in the city. Boret had been marked for death by the insurgents. 
"There has been no official declaration of surrender but it occurred at 7 a.m. this morning," said Oum. "There seems to be no fighting in the town at the moment." 
UPI reporters said there was no sigh of rebel forces in the vicinity of the UPI bureau in the city, and said they had no con­firmation of the report from the embassy in Bangkok. 
Insurgent radio broadcasts reported combat was under way at the western edge of Phnom Penh at the Russian-built University of Letters, and at the north side just above the French Embassy. 
At the Phnom Penh naval base just east of the capital itself and across the Mekong 
h~-\"irginia McGowan StaH Hrporter 

Hcv. Jesse L. Jackson, stressed l.t:st night the need for govern­ffi('ntal control to provide t•conomic security for all AmPricans, as he opened the Fourth Annual Civil Rights Lec­tures in Stepan Center. "I don't talk of civil rights," stated Jackson, president of Operation 
P.U.S.H. "My goal is social justice." 
Defining civil rights as con­cerned with the privileges of the citizen and social justice as "equity and parity in access to all divinities and power available to all humans", Jackson advocated a new organized unity among blacks to achieve the goals of social justice. 
"Civil rights raises the question of which children go to school," he stated,"but social justice raises the question of whether children go 
· 
Oum said t~~~~~1
fighting the ir down their uniforms, u'""''u~·. 
Insurgent streets, wearing scarves and Chinese-made identification, Oum 
The military commander of the expected to head of · · had arrived in broadcast an appeal forces to lay down their arms to remain calm. 

"The situation appears to be calm" Phin Oum said. "Thirty minutes ago (11:30 
His goal is social justice 
Jackson calls lor new unity among Blacks 
to school..' 
Jackson noted the prime concerns of the civil rights movement are quality education and economic security for blacks and other minorities. 
He described the educational picture for blacks as being "dismal", stating that most higher level education for blacks occurs in community colleges offering only terminal programs of study not leading to a degree. 
"We are not a race but we are a people," commented Jackson. He cited the small number of blacks currently in the fields of medicine, business and law particularly as hindering the advancement of black people. 
He noted that even after the abolition of slavery, economic, social and political oppression continued. "Where would we be today if educational institutions hadn't allowed blacks in?" he asked. 

EDT) the population in the city held a big . ticipate," Medoux said. 
demonstration to receive the Khmer Rouge, who have entered Phnom Penh." 
Phin Oum said he had no word on what to members of the Cambodian smrreJndE~feld, or 
International Red said the ment offered to Prince Norodom had rejected the _ _ _ _ _ a negative answer," 
>-· --· Cross Offic I Alain Modoux said in ·Geneva concerning Sihanouk's reply to the Cambodian surrender proposal. "We were used only as a means of tran7 smitting the proposal. We did not par­
' Sihanouk, the nominal leader of the in­
surgent forces since he was overthrown as 
chief of state of CaMbodia in favor of Lon 
Nol on March 18, 1970, said from his Peking 
exile that acting president Gen. Sak Sut­
sakhan had asked for the 11-hour cease-fire 
through the International Red Cross. 
Sihanouk told newsmen in Peking he could 
recommend only that the "quislings" in 
charge of the government leave quickly or 
face execution. He indicated his forces were 
prepared to accept no compromise but 
uncondi tiona) surrender. 
The reference was to Vidkun Quisling, a 
Norwegian politician who in effect 
surrendered Norway to invading Nazis in 
World War II. His name has become a 
synonym for "traitor." 
The final attack on Phnom Penh began 
Wednesday with a heavy rocket and ar­
tillery barrage on the city. 
Radio Phnom Penh in its last newscast 
late Wednesday night said government 
troops had driven back one push into the 
capital across the United Nations bridge. 
But the situation was desperate in any case. 
The Red Cross said it's major concern was 
the respect of a hotel in Phnom Penh that it 
had declared as a neutral safety zone for the 
care of wounded civilians and soldiers in the 
city, Medoux said. 

According to Jackson, urban areas such as Chicago should have fifty percent black enrollment or more, based on the number of college-age people in the city. Currently enrollment is twenty percent below this target and black Ph.D. candidates are only .8 per 
cent of the national total. Jackson 
saw  these  as  areas  for  radical  
improvement.  
Jackson  offered  two  partial  

solutions: refusal by black teachers to escape their own group after attaining a high level of education, and elimination of ration differences. 
"The Negro needs neither segregated nor mixed schools," emphasized Jackson," What he needs is education." He warned black students against losing racial identity, adding that he himself had not yet reached that level of maturity or racial un­consciousness. 
Jackson,-King's assasination was "an attempt to disrupt, discredit, and destroy the black movement." 
Jackson noted that the nation has come to a spiritual and moral crisis. "We can't afford for poor people to be poor and without visions," he said. 
"We must now get ready to hit the streets again," he urged. "Ours is the beauty of one race, 
ours is the divinity of one sex," he added, advising an honest analysis of factors contributing to discrimination. 
Jackson's analysis stressed the idea that whites are willing to relate to blacks only on a spiritual basis, and are unwilling to share power. 
"As we're moving into society"'we're trying to move up" he stated. Jackson acknowledged that "the power of the black buyer was expanded when he was able to run more football and win more assumption that black motor skills exceed mental skills. 
"Our bodies were accepted but the black mind was largely rejected," he commented, asking the possibility of a black man becoming president of Notre 
Dame. 
Jackson then proceeded to support the platforms of ERA and the anti-abortion movement, stating that "ERA is the right way" and "saving the babies is an obligation." 
"Some say there is no hope in this society for people of African descent," he concluded. "We've got to regenerate ourselves. We've got to take the hope out of our wings and put it in our brains. 
Jackson offered a last word of advice to students in the audience : "Don't come to Notre Dame to major in black history. Come to Notre Dame to major in 



2 ver 

an campus taday 
9 am . civil rights conference, "health care & Its distribution: 1 the right to health" by martha 
w. 
grlfflths, john l.s. holoman. jr., e. peter lsacson and howard 

n. 
newman, center for con., tlnulng education aud. 


12:30 pm -mass, fr. robert griffin, Ia fortune ballroom 
1 pm -civil! rights, rev. jesse jackson In cce aud. 
2 pm -civil rights, "urban education: the right to quality education by jose a. cardenas, jane• s. coleman, velma m. hill and barbara a. slzemore, cce auditorium 
2 pm -lecture, Introduction, presentation to transcendental meditation, sponsored by sims, library lounge 
3 pm -meeting, college council meeting, college of engineering, room 208 cce 
4 pm . lecture, "Inverse cross modality matching: a test of consistency of ration scales" by michael g. IIIIenthai, grad student, spon. by psychology dept. 119 haggar hall 
4:15 pm -cardinal o'hara lec­ture series, "can congress make budget decisions" by dr. alice m. rlvlln, dlr. of­congressional budget office, spon by business ad­ministration, mem. lib. aud. 
5 pm -vespers, evenson, log 
chapel 
7:30 
pm . central renaissance~ conference, "east and west In the renaissance" opening, service. events calendar available at mass, reservations required for dinner programs, In loretto church 

7:30 
pm -faculty seminar, "social experimentation: Jt useful?" by dr. alice m. rlvlln, 1 


1 
spon. by busln~ss ad-; 
ministration, 121 hayes healy 1 
center 
1 
7:30 pm . rosensteil lecture, demonstration: hasldlc
1 
celebration. rabbi shlomo 
carlebach, washington hall. 
8 pm . civil rights, banquet and address by hon. jerry apodaca, gov. ofjnew mexico, monogram room ace 
8 pm seminar, "developments : In wind energy, windmill engineering" by donald j. vargo, lewis resear~rh center, cleveland. spon. by aerospace · and mechanical engineering, architecture aud. 
8 pm -seminar, "colonial ar­chitecture as cultural artifact", by dr. john I. cotter, dept. of american civilization, unlv. of pa. spon. b y program In american studies, library aud. 
8 pm . concert, madrigal 
singers, spon. by music dept. 
little theater I 
8 pm -meeting • baltic club 1 meeting, refreshments Incl. lyons basement lounge 
12 am -10pm -discussion and' marketplace, one earth market 1 -place spon. by International students organization, Iafortune basement 

~~-.~ 
CAR PROBLEMS 
DON'T GET RIPP~D 
.OFF ON PARrS1 
FOR YOUR CAR/ · 
WE HAVE PARTS FOR MOST AME~ICAN &. FOREIGN}CARS. AVAILABLE A'f: WHOLESALE 
PRIC~S' 
HOFFMAN BR.OS.I 


Panel is to discuss majors and careers at St. Mary's i 1 
For those students interested in learning practical ways of correlating their major with a , career, the St. Mary's Career Development Center and the Freshman Office are jointly sponsoring a panel discussion with 
' three community women tonight. This discussion, the third in a series, will be held at 6:30 in Habig Lounge, room 220, on the main floor of Moreau Hall, and is open to all majors in all classes. 
'Human Rights' studied at CCE 

A Symposium on Human Rights and Social Justice will be held 
April 19 and 20 at Center for 

Continu,ing Education. .
On Saturday, at 9.40 a.m., Bishop Patricio F. Flores, Auxiliary Bishop of San Antonio, TPxas, will speak on "The Past: the Chicano and the Church." Bishop Gilberto E. Chavez, Bishop of San Diego, California, will speak on "The Present: the Church and 
IContemporary .. Social Issues 
. Facing Chicanos." Bishop Robert 
F. Sanchez. Archbishop of Santa J<'e. will then speak on "The Future: The Church and Chicano · Potentials and Prospects." 
On Saturday afternoon the Bishops will take part in a panel discussion at 2:00. 
The Symposium will conclude on Sunday with a mass at 9 a.m. 
An Tostal lists 

appointments 
The An Tostal Executive Committee has announced the following special appointments to be effective immediately: 
Nancy Cueroni of Walsh Hall, whose name was erroneously omitted from the An Tostal Booklet, has been appointed General Assistant and An Tostal Weathe11girl. Her duties will in· elude working wonders with the weather. 
Mivhael Gizinski of Keenan Hall has been appointed Director of the An Tostal Answering Service. 
Graduate appointments have been awarded to The Jim E. Brogan, Bob Higgins and former An Tostal Ambassador at Large Gregory T. Monito, three veterans who have returned to assist. · 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semetter except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame .r~d St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box' Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

~~;;;;;;~==~~ 





COMING MONDAY 
YOUR CHANCE TO WIN 
The featured panelists include: 
Hilda Bomer, University of 
Wisconsin German major who 
received her M.A. in 1970 from the 
University of Notre Dame in 
Counseling Psychology, and is now 
employed by the F.C.C.; Mary 
Sproull, a 1967 graduate of St. 
Mary's and former high school 
teacher who is now a marketing 
trainingmanagerfor Ames Com­
pany, a division of Miles Lab., 
Inc.; and Elizabeth J. McGlynn, a 
1952 graduate of Washington State 
University with a double major in 
Social Science and Secondary 
Education, and who now serves as 
Associate Executive Director of 
the Y.W.C.A. of Greater · 
Milwaukee.

Grace Tully win 
' 
in claSS electiOnS 
In yesterday's Senior Class 
elections the slate of Grace, 
Caranci, Kall, and Dore swept to a 
landslide victory, capturing 74 per 
cent of the vote. 
The slate of Tully, Palma, 
Simmons, and Donahue won a 
plurality of 38 per cent of the vote 
in the Junior Class elections in a 
contest divided among five slates. 
The votes of Holy Cross Hall 
were not counted in the elections 
since their ballot boxes were 
turned in an hour and twenty 
minutes past the deadline. 
I. 

1 IT'S AN TOST AL WEEK · ff 
I
1 on or o -campus . I HAVING A PARTY? I I 
. -also quick pickup service I LET THE PAN PROVIDE' I 
I THE DEEP DISH P-IZZA 
" 

r-"'-107 DIXIEWAY NORTH -JUST NORTH F RANDALL'S INN 
SauerBraten 
_ 


Hans Haus 
2803 South Michigan Street-Phone 291-5522 
German Foqd Our Specialty 
Created with Old World Atmosphere. Specializing in German and American Foods. 
• So11th Bend's Finest Banquet Rooms 
The Alpine & Bavarian Rooms Open 10:30 a.m. to 10:30 p.m.-Closed Sundays and Holld_ays 

LECTURE AND DEMONSTRATION 
RABBI SHLOMO CARLEBACH 
of New York and Jerusalem 
FIXING, POLISHING, & SANCTIFYING YOUR SOUL WITH MUSIC 
AN EXPERIENCE OF HASIDIC SONG, STORYTELLING & DANCE 
THURS., APRIL 17, 7:30 PM, WASHINGTON HALL 

----------------I

''THE PAN'' I 
I 
DEEP DISH PIZZA I I 
I for the I I 
N.D. & S.M.C. COMMUNITY 
IT'S AS CLOSE AS YOUR PHONE 
1277-1221 or 277-1222 


~ FREE DELIVERY 


!'Thursday, April 11, 19751 the observer I 
Gentle Thursday plans released 
Rain, rain go away, don't dare come till the end of May~r at least until, fter this weekend's An Tostal festivities. 
At least that's the expressed wish of the Notre Dame An Tostal Committee as they today unleash its funfilled extravaganza on the University of Notre Dame and her lovely neighbor to the west, St. Mary's College. For three months the committee has worked to prepare three days of laughter and smiles for the residents of Du Lac as they welcome the most beautiful season of any year--springtime at Notre Dame. And today it finally begins-­
An Tostal gets off to .a "questionable" start at 2:00 p.m. today on the South Quad, as Rich Morton and Digger Dziemianowicz entertain the audience and challenge campus know-it-alls in the fabled An Tostal Trivia Bowl. A new format will be attempted this year <after St. Mary's lost six in a row to branier boys) so there's a very good chance that everyone can win. So, if you really do want to know how many steps com­promise the Administration Building's main staricase, be sure not to miss the event with all the answers. 
At 4 p.m., a short walk will take you to the Bookstore Area to watch the ladies' champion basketball team attempt to manhandle the finest of the Dighting Irish. Boxing gloves are expected to put a dent in the Irish' shooting percentage, but never­theless the women may have some difficulty overcoming the NCAA tournament seasoned varsity. 
Next, Commissioner Vince Meconi fields his four finest units in the semi-final round of the always unbelievable Bookstore Basketball Tournament. Details on Sports Page. 
For thowe with tickets, a healthy walk to St. Mary's will earn you a generous helping of barbecued chicken from 4:30 to 6:00p.m. But if you have a mixed feeling about generosity, be sure to vote in the Ugliest Man on Campus Contest-­you can get even with your 
Civil Rights Conference is to open in the CCE today 
The Second Annual Civil Rights Conference will be held Thursday and Friday -this week at the Center for Continuing Education Auditorium. 
The theme of this year's com­ference is "Beyond Civil Rights: The Right to Economic Security". The conference is sponsored by the Notre Dame Center for Civil Rights and eonsists of four three-hour panel discussions. 
At 9 a.m. Thursday, the first pant-l will discuss "Health Care and itsDistribution: The Right to IIPalth." 
The second panel, which begins at 2:00p.m. Thursday afternoon, is slated to deal with the topic "Urban Education: The Right to Quality Education". 
The panelists for this discussion include Dr. Jose Cardenas, director of the Intercultural Development Research Association and an expert in the area of bilingual education; Dr. James S. Coleman, author of the "Coleman Report" and a professor of sociology at the University of Chicago. Paul Diamond, Deputy Director of the Lawyers' Com­mittee for Civil Rights Under Law, and Dr. Barbara A. Sizemore, Superintendent of schools of the District of Columbia. 
A will convene at 9:00 
Di






I.---­
I Send for your1 Student I.D.Card 
and enjoyI special rates at 1 Hilton Hotels 
and Inns coast I to coast. (Grad students 

a.m. Friday to discuss "Economic Distress and Minority Groups: The Right to Meaningful Em­ployment". 
Members of this panel include Dr. Richard Freeman, a professor of economics at Harvard; William Lucy, secretary-treasurer of the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Em­ployees; Dr. Marcus G. Raskin, director of the Institute for Policy Studies in Washington, D.C.; and 
Dr.  Lester  C. Thurow,  an  
economics  professor  at  the  
Massachusetts  Institute  of  
Techonology.  

The fourth panel discussion, which will begin at 1:30 p.m. Friday will concentrate on the topic "Welfare Reform and the ' Redistribution of Wealth: The Right to an Adequate Income". 
The Governor of New Mexico, the Honorable Jerry Apodaca, will deliver an after-dinner address at 
9:00 p.m. Thursday night at the Monogram Room of the ACC. All events are free of charge and the public is invited. 
The moderators for the four panel discussions are: Prof. Richard W. Kurtz, Health Care; Prof. Joseph W. Scott, Urban Education; Prof. John W. Houch, The Economy; and Prof. Robert E. Rodes. Jr. 
1 and faculty, too.) Just mail this couponI to Hilton Hotels Fulfillment Dept., Suite 200. 205 So. Beverly Drive. Beverly Hills. CA 90212. I Name__________________________________ 
I Addres"'------------------­
1 City State Zip___ I 
I College Class of 19___ I 

:~tiJ,lQPJJJt~E~~: 
roommate while still providing a generous donation to Sister Marita's Day School--a beautiful cause for such an ugly event. 
The whilrwind of an An Tostal festivity shifts to the North Quad at seven as the talents of Talisman herald the commencement of Gentle Thursday's evening ac­tivities. 
An Tostal Law goes into effect at eight as the most escapeproof An Tostal Jail ever built opens shop for the evening. For only a quarter, you can point the accusing finger at anyone on the quad and the big, burly An Tostal jailers will incarcerate him first and ask questions later. Prisoners will be permitted to bribe their way out for a fee of fifty cents, but the penniless or misers among them must pay for their crimes with a stint in the An Tostal Pie Throwing Booth nearby. 
The Dunking Booth also opens at eight and it is rumored that former Ombudsman Bill McLean will attempt to reestablish his title as "Most Obnoxious Dunk." For only two bits, anyone can take a turn at sending the likes of Pat McLaughlin, Ed Byrne, Becky Bracken and Mary Ann Grabavoy to Davy Jones Locker. 
And they have the nerve to call this Gentle Thursday? The Burlap Sack Race and the 

Human Pyramid Contest offer proof that Notre Darners can stay out after dark without their mummies and still have good times and pharoah play prevail. 
Music lovers are never neglected by the An Tostal frolic since Name That Tune made its outstanding debut in the rains of last years Gentle Thursday. The air will be filled with melodies you may or may not remember but are guaranteed enjoyable. 
Finally, the Miss America Pageant receives its strongest com~tition ever as represen-· 
: tatives from the campus' -more 
masculine  dorms  vie  for  the  
prestigious  title of  Mr.  Campus  
within  the  confines  of  Stepan  

Center. A definite must for the non-serious beauty worshipper and all lovers of laughter, the Mr. Campus Contest could make the 
U.S.A. forget there ever was an Atlantic City. <But off the record, even the committee fanatics doubt that-but fhe ·do guarantee you'll enjoy it!) 
TOMORROW: Frivolous Friday ,and ~~:.-.atiJ!d~y 



WHETHER YOU'RE GRADUATING OR JUST CELEBRATING, LET US HELP YOU HAVE A 

BLAST!!! 
5 OF THE HA~N1DIEST SPOTS IN TOWN 

1. HANDY SPOT PARTY SHOPPE 3. ROSELAND PARTY SHOPPE 
1426 Mishawaka Ave. 113 DixieWay N. 

2.. N. IRONWOOD PARTY SHOPPE 4. GOLDEN FLASK PARTY SHOPPE 
1725 N, Ironwood 413 Hickory Rd. at McKinley 
5. PARTY SHOPPE SOUTH 

• WINES • GOURMET FOODS 4401 s. Michigan at Ireland 
• 
LIQUORS • PARTY SUPPLIES 

• 
COLD BEER 


"If it's available, we will get it for you." 

FREE DELIVERY 287-7744 
USE OUR CONVENIENT CREDIT TERMS: Budget Accounts e Charge Plans We Accept: BankAmericard • Diners Club • Shoppers Charge • Master C..,arge • Carte Blanche • American Express 


Gordori1 
JEWELERS 

IN SOUTH BEND SHOP AT GORDON'S: Scottsdale Mall • Shop Gordon's Coast to Coast. 
~~The ObServer 
~ ~ 

an independent student newspaper Founded November 3, 1966 

An Tostal 1975 
Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief lob Zocu Bualneu Manaier Bob McManua Advertlalnc Manacer 

EDITORIAL BOARD AI Rutherford. Managing Editor: Fred Graver, Executive Editor; Jim Eder, Editorial Editor Ken Girouard. News Editor: Pat Hanifin. Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor Ken Bradford. Copy Editor: Bill Brink. Sports Editor: TomO'Neil. Features Editor lhris Smith. Photo Editor Editori~ls: 281-8661 News: 281-1715 Bu•inrn: 281-7471 
Thursday, April 17. 1975 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiia bab quakenbus h 
Hight now it's at work in the ballroom of the LaFortune Student Center--that crazy driving force that for no explainable reason has twenty-{)dd students sitting on a cold tile floor at two in the morning trying to assemble 20,000 sheets of paper into 5,000 sixteen page booklets. It's a force which keeps over 100 people meeting week after week for three months planning a three-day event which three inches of rain could easily destroy. It's the reason Jim E. Brogan returns annually just to perform his fabled impersonations of Joan of Arc and the first astronaut landing on the sun. It makes sup­posedly intelligent university students launch nationwide searches 
for Little Miss Eggbeater and vow every year that this will be the 

year that Charlton Heston himself will lead the Imperial Parade of 
the Chariots.


Parietal Proposals 
The extensive report on parietals recently submitted by the SLC's Planning 
and  Policy  Committee  demonstrates  
once  more  the  basic  absurdity  and  
confustion  surrounding  the  whole  

question of visitation hours. 
After eight months of work the SLC Committee has come up with a proposal that hardly. alters a policy which the report itself admits is not working. After eight months of work the committee has decided to reaffirm a policy that lacks the support of 92 per cent of the student body who are supposed to abide by it, a majority of the hall staff members who are supposed to enforce it, and several of the rectors who are supposed to supervise it. 
Ironically, Sr. John Miriam Jones, chairperson of the committee, contends that the report's proposal to put en­forcement of parietals on the hall level is a "major step" in reconciling the con­troversy over the visitation issue. First, although the restriction of parietals is a University regulation it is already being handled for the most part on the hall level by the rectors and resident assistants. Only the proposal that the halls be allowed to establish some mechanism for making specific and Infrequent ex­tensions of visitation hours is new. 
. Secondly, how can the committee honestly expect the same members of this community who do not support the present visitation policy to enforce it even if a given a formal hall-based judicial structure? 
-Sr. Jones also ironically contends that another rna jor achievement of the committee is the "separation of the parietals issue from the sexuality issue." 
Once again, this stance is not new. The report's statement simply follows a long line of previous official VUniversity statements (including the du Lac student manual) which insist that parietals and sexually have nothing to do with each other. 
Thirdly, the stance itself is in­consistent with the opm1on of Fr. Hesburgh who, in vetoing the SLC's proposed revisions of the sexuality code last January, cited "having a member of the opposite sex in one's room overnight" 
as  an  example  of  "serious  sexual  
misconduct."  
Furthermore,  if  the  University  

honestly regards parietal violations as not being indicative of sexual misconduct but merely an invasion of privacy, how can it justify the suspension of students for parietal violations as in the Dillon Hall incident of 1973 and the Stanford Hall case last summer? 
Yesterday's proposal by Student Body President Ed Byrne to extend visitation by two hours each day is no more helpful than the SLC committee's proposals. It is at best a token attempt to express student dissatisfaction with the present University policy. A survey has shown that 52 percent of the student body wants no visitation restrictions at all. 
Twenty-four hour parietals may very well never be approved by Fr. Hesburgh. However, an adequate compromise cannot be expected if the voice of the students is not accurately and strongly represented by its leaders. 
The Editorial Board 

seriausly,falka 
An IRS Fantasy art buchwaI d 
\\' i\SIIINGTON-Every year around tax time I have a fantasy about the IRS. Last year my fantasy was that I made a gross error in favor of the government and had overpaid my taxl!s by such a large sum that I received a personal visit from the eommissioner of Internal Revenue who handed me a briefcase filled with new $100 bills. 
In my dream the Commissioner told me, "You are a great American and I wish we had more like you. Take this small token of appreciation plus 6 per cent interest." <He handed me another package of bills.> 
I recall that I protested, saying that the govern­ment needed the funds more than I did. But the Commissioner was adamant. "We checked your return carefully and we could not in good con· science accept all the money you paid in taxes. You refused to take any deductions for business or en­tertainment or even for your family. My people were so impressed by your honesty' as well as the neatness of your tax form that they called it to my personal attention. 
Not only am I authorized to present you with these funds but I am also awarding you the IRS Medal of Honor with an Oak Leaf Cluster -the highest decoration the Service can award." 
H<· kissed me on both cheeks. 

This year my fantasy is far more ;interesting. After reading that the IRS has used undercover women informers to investigate the sex habits of those suspected of cheating on. their taxes, I worked out the following scenario. 
I send an anonymous letter to the IRS saying: "Buchwald has a secret /numbered bank account in Switzerland and sends a courier over to Geneva every month with a suitcase full of cash. A full investigation of his activities might produce astounding results. 
"P.S. He is partial to blondes and is a leg man." 
The IRS Counterintelligence Organization calls a special meeting. The Chief tells his agents, "We must get the number of that Swiss account. 
Wiretaps and surveillance have been unproductive. 
We have no choice but to put 'Operation Joy of Sex' 
into action." 

Everyone at the table whistles. "He's very dever," the Chief's Deputy says. "We can't put any woman informer on to him. It's got to be someone special." 
"What about Sherry Foldout?" "You mean Burning Lips, the Passion Flower of Pasadena?" 
"We'll have to give her 30 per cent of the fine, but it will be worth it.Whenyou're trying to catch a rat in a tax shelter you have to use the most expensive cheese in the store." 
They call Sher;ry and tell her, "We don't care what it takes. Stay with him day and night, but get that number." 
I won't go into all the details of the rest of the fantasy except to say that Sherry Foldout goes way beyond the call of duty to get my secret out of me. But there is one thing the IRS hasn't countedon. 
With the statute of limitations on my tax 
almost up, Sherry tearfully confesses to her superiors, "I don't know how to tell you this, but I've fallen in love with him. It's the first time in my life I've ever felt anything for a tax evader. Why didn't you warn me about this? I'll never be the same again." 
The IRS Counterintelligence Organization calls another special meeting. The Chief says, "Sherry's been compromised. Well have to use Fern La Long and tell Astrid Rapture to stand by just in case he does to Fern what hedid to Sherry." 
"We've never used three undercover women on one case before," the Deputy protests. 
"You forget, Desmond," the Chief says angrily. "We're not dealing with an ordinary tax cheater. We'll get him if we have to use every woman in the Service." 
I haven't told my wife about my latest IRS fan­tasy because she doesn't understand anything about taxes, and if I told her she'd only become confused. 
''It" is what you might call THE SPIRIT OF AN TOSTAL. Capital letters. You can't pin down exactly what it is--except to say that it is something to be shared with everyone at the University of Notre dame and the college named St. Mary's. And sharing is definitely the key word behind An Tostal--for the festival has just one reason for existence. For three <hopefully, lovely) days in April. Notre Dame's salute to springtime attempts to have an Pntire university share laughter, smiles and just the simple pleasure of each other's company. 
Sur<>. the smiles may emerge from a face caked with mud or from lwhind a coating of blueberry pie, hut they arr there. And lwst of all. they are there by the hundreds. 

But perhaps even more than spirit or laughter or smiles or even sharing. An Tostal is people --specifically the students of Notre !lamP. It's Jim Brogan. It's the chariot builders on the fourth floor. It's the Glee Club impersonating Sha-Na-Na. It's Greg 1\lonito throwing the final block that wins the touch football championship for the girls--supposedly when he's the referee! It's Steve .Jeselnick and Wally (;asior and Tom Porter and the whole string of "Mr. An Tostal's" that have appeared since the festival's inception. It's Vince Meconi, the Master of Morrissey Manor. and his incredible Bookstore Basketball Tournament. For some of my wom<•n-worshipping companions in Keenan, it's B-P and Farleyites in haltertops <weather permitting>. And most important of all, the thousands of students who merely watch and enjoy. 
No one knows as well as the An Tostal Committee how much time and Pffort goes into making the festival a success--and they probably don't even care if anyone else does. The only reward they ask is the goal they decided upon in January--that there be 6,600 smiles and 6,600 barrels of laughter registered before the weekend's end. So come on out and enjoy many or all the An Tostal festivities--the committee will be glad you did, and they'll be willing to bet that you'll be glad too. 
Sprl'ial favor to a special friend: 
Fr. Griffin and his lovable companion Mr. Darby O'Gill, co­proprietors of a well-known campus night spot, have invited all AnTostal revelers to share breakfast with them Saturday morning at 5 a.m. But, they are worried about having enough place settings available and thus would dearly love to know how many guests they may expect. So, if you would like to attend breakfast at Darby's Place, please sign up this evening at Darby'• or call Bill Sullivan at 
289-6142. 
DOONESBURY 

Night Editor: Dan Sanchez Assistant Night Editor: Mary JC)nca
1 Layout Staff: Bob Varettonl, Maureen Flynn, Marti Hogan, Martha Fanning 
Day Editor: Brian Clancy Copy Reader: Bob Mader !"'Editorials: Jlm Eder, J. Amantea . 

by Garry Trudeau 
Sports: Bill Brink, Typists: Janet Carney, Barb Norcross, Jim Landis, Apple Corr 
Compugraphic: Morey Blinder Night Controllers: AI Rutherford, Rick Huber 
Picture Screener: Albert D' An. tonlo Ad Layout: Tom Whelan 

K. of C. sponsors 
'Pennies from Heaven' sought 
by Martha Fanning Staff Reporter 

Tony Grasso of the Knights of Columbus, has challenged the Notre Dame-St. Mary' com­munity to a weight contest. Grasso has agreed in conjunction with the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus, to lift a weight equivalent to the weight of the pennies donated in the "Pennies from Heaven" fund raising project. 
The objective of the drive is to raise money for Gibault, a home for juvenile delinquents run by the Indiana Knights of Columbus. Councils all over the state are sponsoring various projects in order to aid the school in ob­taining a "matching grant." The Lily Foundation will donate a 
specified amoun! of money if the 
· councils in Ind1ana can match their donation. The Notre Dame council will be requesting every student, faculty member, and staff member to donate one penny a day for a week. "One penny a day won't hurt anyone, but every penny donated will make a difference," com­mented Thomas, Grand Knight of the ND council. 
The goal of the council is to obtain seven hundred dollars, which is equal to approximately five hundred pounds. The weight of pennies raised to date will be computed each day. Grasso will then lift that weight at 5:30p.m. each day of the contest on the porch of the ND council building. 
Council seeks SMC donors 

STEWART 

lor blood program today 
Today between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m., all SMC students will have · the opportunity to make a donation. It won't cost them a penny, yet is so valuable that it is a lifesaver. The donation is not of money, but of blood. 
Today's donation from St. Mary's is one of two conducted weekly on campus, under the direction of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Blood Council which began this year. 
According to the Council's program, up to 20 donors from each residence hall at Notre Dame or 20 from SMC are asked to give blood on either one Tuesday or Thursday during the semester. 
Donations are accepted at the Central Blood Bank in downtown South Bend, as needed facilities are not available yet on campus, said Council Chairman Colleen O'Rourke. Red Cross volunteers provide transportation to and from the blood bank. 
Rides will leave from in front of 
Holy Cross Hall, SMC at 9 a.m., 
An Tostal course 
10:30, 12 noon, 1:30 p.m .. and 3:00 
p.m. 
In order to donate, the prospective donor must be bet­ween 17 and 65 years of age, have allowed at least eight weeks to elapse since the last donation, have a good night's rest the night before, and have eaten within six hours of donation. 
Donors with infectious hepatitis, diabetes, chronic kidney disease or cancer will be rejected. Those with a cold or flu are asked to postpone their donation until symptoms have subsided. Others are asked to postpone their donation if they have been exposed to measles, German measles, chicken pox, or mumps until three weeks after exposure, unless they have had the disease; have had surgery or serious injury within the past six months; have had infectious mononucleosis within the past year; or are taking an­tibiotics, cortisone, or sulfa. 
J:<'or more information, contact 
O'Rourke at 5261. 




-,Recess' is reinstated 
A menagerie of infantile exer­cises will ease the tensions of students tantalize their repressed natural instincts, and provide alot of fun for all. Recess 101, being billed as a return to your childhood night includes a Gian Twister gam~. baby powder fig.ht, tricycle races, finger paintmg, four­square, kool-ade, boola-hoops, paper plane flying, Mother May I, baby pools, costumes, and others. 
Appropriate dress depends on 
whether you plan to play "Which Way to the Beach" in the baby pools, or lather your hands with rich primary colors while creating beautiful houses, trees, animals or whatever. Some kids will be wearing giant diapers, some pre­school outfits, and others costumes of cartoon characters. A prize will be given to thz best. Play like Mr. Potato Head and change your appearance. Due to the over­whelming response, kool-ade will cost 5 cents a glass. 
The drive will run from Thurday April17 trough Thurday, April24. 
Posters will be put up on the floor of every dorm with the name of the K ov C member who will be available to take any pennies from residents of that floor who wish to contribute. 
For off-campus students, faculty, and staff members there will be posters in all class room buildings with the name of an individual within that building who will collect the pennies of those wishing to donate. 
If anyone is unable to find someone to give their money to, they can either drop in to the council building, located next to the bookstore, or call the council at 7018, and a member will be sent to pick up your donation 
Thursday, April 17, 1975 the observer 
5 

For freshmen interested in working 'on the 1976 Sophomore Literary Festival: 
~lease leave name in Engli_sh Office, 309 O'Shaughnessy, 


'Jhe Jlotre Dame Student G>"T 


and Student Union 
re~ uesf the honor of ~our presence at an open house 
Wed. and ~hurSv ---..__, .1\priI 16 f11 1throlljh 10p-m. student ~o\J 't offices 
• 
-A 

·-------------------·------,




Iatuek'-frie~
k• L
!I tel\tll® I! 
I _ _ _ I I NEW LOCATION ON u.s. 31 NO. I
tv, MI. N. OF McDONALD'S IN ROSELAND1 
I FREE LARGE PEPSI I 
I WITH THIS COUPON I 
I III 
I I 
I I 
-
the observer

• 6 

National tuition 1hikes predicted 
by Kevin Dickerson Starr Reporter 
"The cost of attending college will go up past 8 per cent at private• institutions, a survey of 2400 colleges and universities has found." This quotation, taken from the Chronicle of Higher Education, March 1975 edition, typifies the financial trends of colleges and universities nation­wide. 
Dr. Jim Bauman, Director of Financial Aid Studies and Programs for the Educational Testing Center in Princeton, New Jersey, said that "these figures are arrived at by releasing a budget form to colleges across the country, both private and public. Financial aid officers complete the detailed questionaire and send it back to us. We use it to determine financial aid for the Parents Confidential Statement form that students are required to submit for financial aid at most institutions." supplies. Of the five components, 

He also explained that the tuition and fees will vary the most, budget form was divided into five from anaveragebf $2600 to $3600 at, components: tuition and fees, private four year institutions, 
transportation, personal costs, Bauman said. room and board, and books and 1 In the same edition of the 
The graph below shows the tuition, room and board of various public and private institutions, in comparison to Notre Dame. These figures were submitted in mid-fall and are only ap­proximates of the 1975-76 actual costs. 
Chronicle, the Educational Testing Service released the average charges for more than 1500 colleges and universities for 1975­76 academic year. On the average, Notre Dame tution and room and board fees are lower than those institutions of comparatively the same caliber. 
Notre Dame submitted it's budget questionnaire to the 
Educational Testing Service in October of 1974. Those figures, however, are not necessarily in­dicative of the final figures to be reached by the Board .of Trustees this summer. 
The Educational Testing Service Report further pointed out that not only were private college tuition and expenses going up, but public institution's as well. 
College Tuition & Fees Ivy League-
Yale 
4,050
Harvard 
3,400 
Private _ 
usc 3,266 
U. of Chicago 3,225 NOTRE DAME 3,000 Marquette 2,400 Public _ 
1,272 2,199 
Indiana U. 
UCLA 

National Food Day planned for today 

Today has been designated Food Day by the National Center for Food Day, a day set aside to direct concern to the more than 400 million people who are constantly hungry in the world. 
Spokesman for the Notre Dame Food Coalition said," It will be a day of concern and action by citizens' groups and religious organizations to direct attention specifically to the production, distribution, and use of food. "The day is modeled after the sucessful "Earth Day"which a few years ago brought the country's focus on the ecological problems. 
Efforts have been in the planning stages for the past year, according to Tom Walrath, Student Director of Special Committee of Food Day. Much of the organization has been coordinated by the National Center for Food Day, which did the overseeing of fund raising efforts consisting of teaching, short-term classes, and various other related activities. Research and political 

-
action committees hope to in­fluence national and state Congressmen, Walrath said. 
Task forces across the nation have organized short-term projects, such as the Children's Foundation Pilot Program which is making extra food available to pregnant and nursing mothers, and to infants and children under 4. 
A Boston based organization, OXFAM-America, is sponsoring a program to secure funds for small farm associates, for purchase of land for community organizations, water management, and rural health care. 
The focus of Food Day also is aimed at worldwide hunger problems. Though the national programs are designed for domestic aid, it is hoped Americans will realize that there is an obligation to fellow men in need of food which will cross in­ternational lines, according to Walrath. 
Campus activities Thursday will be sponsored by the Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition. Plans include the distribution of in­formation at the dining halls and other points. 
Films and slides from UNICEF will be shown continuously in the La Fortune theatre from 9 a.m. on dealing with the problem of world hunger. 
A mass will be said Thursday evening at 10:30 pm in Walsh Hall as well. The Coalition hopes Food Day will be made in part sucessful by the response at Notre Dame in the concern for this situation in the world. 

The same type of fuel injection on the Mercede5 is nowon the 75 Beetle. 
-
2200 IY-PASS ROAD 
ELKHART, INDIANA 294-2602 



SCOTTSilALE !\I ALL 111-!1 llAIL\' 12-:i: :10 SllNJMY 
PRICES EFFECTIVE THROUGH APRIL 19 

,--------------------­
~-DR. SCHOLL'S 
! 
IE 

xERc1sE  SANDALS  
I I I  88 ' 

~ $1 0~~0 0"~" 
I REG. 
I $12.95 I 

I LIMIT 1 COUPON PER CUSTOMER. 
~------------------------­
1I CONVERSE IIFAST BREAK" 
I 


B-BALL SHOE 


I 

For Day School I 
'Ugly Man' to raise f·unds 
Following the success of the The votes will be tallied and the candidates and displayed on Ugly man on Campus <UMOC) winner will be announced and campus. The top ten contenders contest held last year to raise presented a plaque at the Irish will be published in the Observer, money for charity, Alpha Phi Wake. and the committee is hoping for a Omega is once again going to host Last year the voting was exciting large voter turnout. the event during An Tostal. Votes with a close race between Fr. Last year ofer $350 was raised, cost one cent apiece for any can­Chambers and Mike Sazdanoff, the most of the money going to Sister didate the student wants as the eventual winner. Sazdanoff says 'Marita's Day School for the 
he is psyched up for this year's Retarded.This year's goal is$1000.
Ugly Man on the Notre Dame 
contest, and challenges all can-The contest should not be con-
campus. didates, as he hopes to get support fused with the Mister Campus
The number of votes each 

it doesn't have to be paid for in requirement for candidacy. ,., with charity
pennies. For example, one dollar casts one hundred votes. 
T;lJ~1;;~~~ad;~ obh;i;.-.---B-U..;;.S-IN_E_S_S_......,..i
aUMOCcan be either a male or a female student. 
Voting will be at the North and sung on Friday 
OPPORTUNITY 
South Dining Halls during lunch and dinner on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday of An Tostal weekend. 
Jesse Jackson is slated to talk 
<t'lmtinut•d r.·om pagt' :ll The Conference will coincide with the Fourth Annual Civil Rights Lectures to be delivered by Reverend Jesse Jackson, president of People United to Save Humanity (Operation P. U.S.H.). 
Thursday, April 17 
noon --lunch, featured speaker: Jesse Jackson. 2 p.m. --5 p.m., -"Urban Education: The Right to Qualify Education". 
Panelists: Jose Cardenas 
James Coleman, Velma Hill A chorus of 30 will sing an 
Good Potential Income 
original message of no more than . 
No Age Barrier

six lines to any familiar tune, to the 
Full or Part Time

person you request in the dining , hall during Frivilous Friday's 
Contact D. A. Doxie 

dinner. 
503 N. Blaine Ave. 

Additional information and sign­
South Bend, IN 

ups for the singing telegrams can 
(219) 234-4469

be obtained tonight in the dininghalls. 11. 
THE NEW YORK METROPOLITAN CLUB WILL AGAIN BE PROVIDING BAGGAGE SERVICE TO THE LONG ISLAND-N.Y.C. AREA AT THE END OF THIS SEMESTER. LOADING TIMES AND PLACES WILL BE ANNOUNCED SOON, (DEPENDING ON EXAMS) A $5.00 DEPOSIT WILL SECURE YOUR PLACE. SEND CASH OR CHECK PAYABLE TO 
N.Y. MET CLUB TO DOUG SCHUMACHER -310 FISHER, N.D. QUESTIONS-CALL DOUG-no. 3007 OR MIKE -no. 1986 
Barbara Sizemore. Wilson T-200 tennis racket 4"rii" All private 3 rooms up ~
:************************************t graduate student. Ai.
grips 1 yr. old. Barely used 7827 '?S,
Auditorium, CCE. 
near memorial hospita' Nc 'In

* ~ return for aiding parents !lp
Garrard SLX-3 turntable w. Shure
9 a.m.--noon, "Health Care and its* -tt cartridge. $75-Steve 8683 lift lightweight son and dal to


DRQTHER 
Distribution: The Right to* U t and from wheelchai. :o Health", * ~ Olds lCutlass '67 small engine, nursing. 232-9128. good milage & 8 track tape, $500.
Panelists: Martha Griffiths,: FREEDOM : New Remington 12 gauge pump Summer rental: fu. John Holloman, E. Peter Isaacson,* -tt magnum-$120 Call 284-4008 or 234-apartment. Air cr .,di 8679 carpeting, dlshwas•
Howard Newman. * -tt 
walk to N.D. 277-09 Audit?ium,Centerforcontinuing: APPEARING AT : 2 Ar-6 8" 2 way speakers 115-best 
Educatwn. * -tt offer call 6801 2 houses for fall. 3 ­Close to campus-5 8 p.m., Banquet, Speaker: Jerry* ~ Texas instr. SR-11 1 year old $35. 234-7332 Call Bob 8720
~~~fc~~a, Governor New~ THE REGAL LOUNGE:
of 

Monogram Room, ACC * Friday, April 18 1121 W. 8th St.
* 

9 a.m.--noon, "Economic Distress *
* 

and Minority Groups: The Right to : MISHAWAKA Meaningful Employment". Panelists: Richard Freeman, : 
William Lucy, Marcus Raskin, * FRIDAY & SATURDAY Lester Thurow. * 
Auditorium, CCE. * 1:30--4:30 p.m., "Welfare Reform * APRIL 18 & 19 and the Redistribution of Wealth: : The Right to an Adequate In-* 9:00 P.M. to 1:30 A.M. come". * 
Panelists: James Dumpson, * Nathan Glazer, Frances Fox: NO COVER CHARGE! 
*********•************ ************* 
FAMILY NIGHT AT BURGER CHEF 
TUESDAY 4-8 PM 
REGULAR SPECIAL 
894 744
Roast Beef Sand. 
Ham & Cheese 794 654 
Cheeseburger 404 284 
Big Chef 794 5'94 
Super Chef 894 654 
Fun-Burger 404 284 
Fix )U8' own burger the way you 0 locations • • • like Itat our new Works Bar. 

1716 N Ironwood H~lp your~lf to Iet~ce, tomatoes, 
. . _ • _.• oruons, rehsh and pickles. Ifmustard . and catsup are all you want, it's there5292 0 U •S • 31 N0 rfh . tor you too. Have as much or as little as 
-:-, . . ---you want at the Burger Chef Works Bar
(at Cleveland Rd.) ...andbu~d_}•ourburgeriustth~wa~_ 
_ .____ , you want 1t.. 
l 


CLASSIFIED A Dr 
Men and women with : college left! want :. six Wanted: 2 $6.00 America tickets. 
WANTED s of 

weeks this summer ure: Call Ed or Toynbee 288-4125 yourself second an
a 

Army Officer upon on? HELP WANTED: Earn approximately this NEW RESTAURANT. APPLY IN summer and gain selt L· ;eel PERSON AT THE FRONTIER No obligation. For in! tion DRIVE-IN BETWEEN 10:30 am contact CPT Weimer a1 )265 
and 9:00 pm about Army ROTC !"-·· Tlp. 
#ould appreciate a ride to SHARE hotline. Pho~..-1-12 Kalamazoo (or vaclnity) on nightly. Completely .tlal Thursday (17th) after 11 am-Cliff 
272-9895 -Polar Bear Club of N ·JrS 
midnight swim night 18, Student for light office work & St. Joe lake beach ed, telephone sales-salary & com­bring own heater & si. mission. Apply 224 W. Jefferson. Corner of Lafayette St. Room 313 
FOR RENT 

Student for Iight delivery, ex­cellent pay. A.A.A. Advertising. 6 bedroom house for ;ar Apply 224 W. Jefferson corner of campus-furnished 9 se. 
Lafayette St. Room 313 $325-month Call 233-2t 
Wanted: 2 America tix floor or 2 rooms-Private, s:•· ~n, cushion-Bob 3407 rides. 233-1329 
Summer or Winter ... FOR SALE bedroom house full ed, washer & dryer, e<­Ylth Bar refrig. excellent condition­burglar alarm system ash wood grain exterior Phone 255-8027 removal. Call Chari: 32­
$60 7180 after 4:30 pm 
LOST & F NOTICES 

•Lost: SR-10 calc! Will do typing, experienced carrol of com~ themes etc. Call 233-8512 
Reward. 8177 

BEAUX-ARTS BALL APRIL 19, Lost: pair of Ad 
9:30 pm "OPENING NIGHT" (white with bl ARCHITECTURE GALLERY Saturday at 4th .n MUSIC: "FAT CHANCE" party. George 3365 TICKETS: $2.50 PER PERSON ­
ARCH. LIBRARY (AP· Found: 2 baby p ·he PROPRIATE ATTIRE) Huddle Call 8661 
Need help with term papers, Found: silver cross, reports, etc? Write Michiana initials TMR. Call 7• Reference Service for rates and details. P.O. Box 6247 South Bend, Found: one watch, T· 
Ind. 46615 15. Call and give dE 
All Morrissey Loans must be paid Lost: McGregor b, by Mon., April21. 11:15-12:15 Dally lost in D-line in the ' 
Hall. Call Pat at 64' Typing done offered $.35 per page, Carbon copy $.05 extra. Call 272-5549 and ask for Dan PERSONAL• 
ALWAYS THE BEST IN GAS Poochle-Happy B-Day to .e SALES AND MECHANICAL man. Love, Kitten. P.S -_ 1 WORK NOW AT TOM'S 
would I UNIVERSITY STANDARD, CORNER OF IRONWOOD AND Jim Rm. 229 Stanford , ; 1.;...-you . STATE RD. 23. 10 PER CENT that you had a bee .riful ·--_ Jy, ; DISCOUNT TO N.D. & SMC WOUld YOU hOld it ann;n..t mL'> STUDENTS ON ALL PUR­
1 The guys · CHASES EXCEPT GAS P.S. Happy B-Day 
handmade turquoise jewelry from Hi! Santa-Fe · just above wholesale I only know 200 p1 prices -no middleman. Call 287· campus and I'd like t­
0076 after 7 the rest of you. If 1 know you, call me a NOW RENTING CAMPUS VIEW 
Tom APARTMENTS. STILL SOME CHOICE 1 AND 2 BEDROOM To my lucky no. 13, APARTMENTS AVAILABLE. Happy Birthday, may CALL 272-1441 FOR IN­beginning of many FORMATION OR STOP OVER years together. AND SEE THE MODEL APART­
Love & K lsses MENT AT 54515 IRISH WAY. 
Nort 
Tony, 

L.I.-N.Y.C.: Call 3007 or 1986 for Are you still thinking 1nformation 
N.Y. Met Club Baggage truck to 
Marla 

1 Backpacking and mountaineering Bored, instruction this summer in Sorry the ear no long• ·orks but Wyoming wilderness. $195.00. glad everything else v . better. includes tent, food, etc. Write Happy B-Day. 1 love Environmental Wilderness Ex­
Still Boring peditions P.O. Box 4511 Ann Arbor, Michigan 41104 Depressants, comple; -· awayl 
, It's Judy's 19th Birth PLANT A SEED FOR CHANGE But there's still Emil t"t,

World Food Day. April17. Look for So leave Kubiak's to ;t atlonal poster around 1 And we'll throw you c ·rty, 01­
•·Cilflti)US. Happy Headaches! Love, 224 & Co. 
.. 
FOR THE Sunday, April 
THESE ADS ARE l .>ICA'L."" TO DAVID i&. Wt--"LAN 
0, 

experienced In Senior RANDOLPH, NEW JERSEY. dissertations, etc. HAPPY IIRTHrY, MIHI RllliaftnAI~I•. accurate 232·5715 
8 the observer Thursd•y, April 17, 1975 
Paul ·Koprowski,-Irish golfers' 'Mr. Consistency· 
I

by Tom Kruczek father was his main inspiration, get ourselves together as a team "because he introduced me to the and do well. And we can do it."
Whenever/you think that you have 
game." The future for the soft-spoken
Paul Koprowski tied into a neat After high school, the choice to economic major is indefinite. "I .
package, you always find that come to Notre Dame· was made really don't have any definite plans you're wrong. Case in point. 
over "some of the Ivy league after I graduate from Notre Dame Koprowski ranks as one of the best schools" because he wanted next year." A shot on the pro tour? 
golfers on this year's team, an opportunity to get away from "I don't know, but I think that if 1averaging 75.88 for nine rounds. So home and see what that kind of put my:mind to it I could make it onhemust have had his first exposure situation could offer. the tour. But that would take ato the sport when he was just out of At Not~e Dame, after making the year or two of just devoting myself 
the crib, right? wrong. Or team h1s sophomore ye~r, he to golf, and I just can't do it without Koprowski, with hisaverage should encountered Noel O'Sullivan. · financial backing."
be very satisfied with his per­formance this far? Wrong again. "That .man just has tremend~us So if there is anyone out there 
~nthus1asm, and that makes him who would like to back a golfer on
It's these kind of things that shape the junior from Southbridge mst great. The way that he has the tour, consider the following
take~ the golf program here and statistics. Koprowski has the top
Mass., as something other than your regular athlete. But don't be havmg us play the numb~r of-avera2e on the team, and has been 
matches that we do, well that s the · medalist for Notre Dame twice.
misled, Koprowski on the course is just as consistent as anyone. This only way to .go. . He finished runner-up in the New 
Koprowski ~e~ shifted the ~alk England Tourney during theyear he has fired all nine of his to this, year· Right now we JUSt summer, and has a 68 as his best
rounds in the 705, with his low for the year being a 73. He· is the man hav~n t gelled as .a t~ar_n. We keep round in competition at Notre 
gettmg good mdividual per-Dame last year.
that Coach Noel O'Sullivan formances, but we're not togetherregards as his "Mr. Consistency," as a team yet. We have a chance Not bad for a guy that didn'tand that title is well deserved, on for the NCAA at-large invitation even t~ink of coming out for the PAUL KOPROWSKI has maintained the best average on the NO golfthe course. 
<to the national tournament) if we team h1s freshman year. 
team this year. (Photo by Greg Young).
Off the course it's a different matter indeed. Paul didn't touch his first golf stick until he was eight, didn't play much at all until 
Bookstore tourney in semifinals
he was 11, and didn't get his first professional lesson until he was in high school' "I really didn't play . by Rich Odloso tied 13-13 Kuzmicz put in two super Niehaus and Bill Drew dominated flickering twilight to carry 31 Club much until high school, and in fact This year's edition of Bookstore drives as Hack, Inc. ran the score the boards down the stretch as Ass III to a 21-18 win over Firing' I didn't even come out for the team Basketball moves into its to 17-13. Ted Slaughter s'cored and the 4 Holes eliminated Myron and the Bad Asses Return. my freshman year here," penultimate round this afternoon three hoops down the stretch to defending champion Ducks II 21-Myron Schuckman led B.A. Return Koprowski admitted. "I just never with four teams still in the running help Bred Flows cut the lead to 20-18. The Holes led 11-10 at the half to 16-14, but Clements answered gave much thought to the idea of for the coveted title. Bookstore 19, but Terry Burke's jumper from and pulled away down the stret,.b with five picturebook jumpers, playing on the team here." proprietor Vince Meconi has the left side gave Hack, Inc. the behind Drew's scoring. The 4 none from less that 18 feet, in­
As for his performance this year, tentatively slated the games for game. _ Holes -Drew 9, Hogan 4, Stevens cluding the gamewinner in near Koprowski is more definite. "No 4:45 and 5:30. Hack, Incorporated Hack, Inc.-Kuzmicz 7, Burke 5, 3, Niehaus 3, O'Brien 2-21. Duck~ total darkness. I'm not really all that pleased with <Dave Kuzmicz) meets the Stark 3, Manik 3, Ritter 3 -21. Bred II Hein 5, Sperla 5, McGann 4, 31 Club Ill -Bonffer 9, Clements the way I've played. But the thing Average White Team <Billy Flows -Slaughter 6, Ryan 4, Cooney 2, Carr 2 -18. 6, Harrison 3, Schickel 2 that I am most dissatisfied with is Paterno l in the first game while 31 McCarty 3, Harbin 3, Wiskowski 3-North Quad Regional -Tom Dubenetsky 1 -21. B.A. Return _' my putting, and the other aspects Club III (Tom Clements) takes on 19. Clements X-rayed five straight Schuckman 7, Montana 5, Ervine 3, 

of my game could be better." Then Ass and the 4 Holes <Billy Drew, South Quad Regional "B"-The he added with a laugh, "I guess I Steve Niehaus lin the. second game. Average White Team used a 
combination of inside hatchet menwon't be really happy until I birdie South Quad Regional "A"-Hack and outside gunning to pullpast

every hole." Inc. scored four straight baskets TILCS II, 21-17. Dave Batton andIn terms of his early exposure to early in the second half to down Dave Kelly let TILCS II to a 11-10the game, Paul points out that his Bred Flows 21-19. With the score lead in a first half of remarkable
Bill Brink t=:=:::=:::='f.:=============:::=:::=:=:=:::=:=:=:=i-:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::=:=;;:~::;;:~::::::::=:=:=:::::::==========='f.======= shooting. Paterno and Pat Pohlen took advantage of the liberal of­ficiating to keep TILCS II from scoring in the second half while Kevin Doherty, Kurt Horton and


The Irish Eye 
Mike Banks bombed from outside to carry Average White to the lead. 


Trailing 20-16 TILCS II lost whatever chance they had when Kelly sprinted from the court with If they gave out awards for patience, they'd have to give one to Frank an apparently separated shoulder. 
-Allocco. Forced to play five-Qn-four TILCS After four years of waiting in the wings, Allocco was where he had quickly gave up the winning always wanted to be: in the starting quarterback position for the basket. ~'ighting Irish of Notre Dame. He has enough credits to graduate with his Average White--Doherty 6, ·lass in May, but chose to use his extra year of eligibility (because of a Horton 5, Paterno 4, Banks 4, •ophomore year injury> to stay and take a shot at the position he had Pohlen 2. Tiles II-Batton, Kelly 5, .vaited so long for. Sahm 3, Kerby 2, -17. 
"1 didn't get much playing time in the first scrimmage," said Frank, Towers Regional -Steve 
'but Coach Devine told me that I'd be working a lot on Saturday <last ;;aturday's scrimmage>. So I was all fired up Saturday, figuring I'd get to Notre Dame signs-un a good portion of the scrimmage." 
But on the nint;a play of the afternoon, Allocco was hit and separated 
2 B-ball recruits

1is right shoulder, relinquishing the position it had taken him so long to ttlain. Two high school All-American 
"1 knew it as soon as it happened, I could feel it. There wasn't a lot of basketball players have signed Jain, and I had full motion of my arm, but I went over to Gene <Paszkiet, letters of intent with the Univesity he Head Trainerl and said 'Gene, it's gone.'" of Notre Dame to begin attendence 
And once again, Frank Allocco would have to wait. in the fall semester of 1975. 
"My first reaction was 'I waited four years for this?'. I was feeling Coach Digger Phelps and his ·eally good and something like this had to happen. I thought , 'I guess staff, working hard recruiting the t's just not meant to be.' " last several weeks, have signed 
The same thing happened to Allocco in high school. Before his senior Bruce Flowers, a 6-9, 225 lb. for­:ear he separated his shoulder, and saw only two minutes of playing ward from Berkley, Michigan, and ime. And now, after the frustration of standing on the sidelines for four 'Bernard Rencher, a 6-2, 195 lb. 1ears. it has happened again. guard from New York. 
"I've been going against the odds all the way," Allocco said. "I told Flowers was a first team Parade :ny wife that this is the first time in four years that I've been really All-American, and averaged 28 
jumpers throught the fast-Mayer 2, Ewald 1 -18. 

SEASON TEAMATES Bill Paterno and Dave Batton are post-season opponents as they face each other in Bookstore competition yesterday. (Photo by Greg Young). 
Positions Available 
University Judicial Board University Appeals Board 
Cali 7668 for Interview Appointment 

aappy, because now I was number 1, but. .. " points per game and 20 rebounds a "But. .."is the doubt that crossed Allocco's mind about what he should game. He also hit a remarkable 71 r-------------------------~

I MAC'S RECORD RACK I 
lo now. With enough credits to graduate, and his football fortunes per cent of his field goals in his .eemingly cursed, he naturally considered just giving up and going. But high school career. vhen you're used to going against the odds, you get used to the feeling Rencher was also a Parade All-
I $1 OFF I 
hat you can overcome them. American, and averaged 23 points I I "I feel like I have to come back," said Frank. "It would all be in vain if per game while attending Mater didn't give it another shot. I could graduate, but I've come this far.'' Cristi High School, Ray Martin's I .ANY SANTANAI "The doctors think they did a good job," he continued. "They're op-alma Mater. He accumulated 1,263 1mistic. and think I have a good chance of playing in the fall." career points, was unanimous all-I ALBUM I 
-
Physically, the only question mark is the alignment of the shoulder. If city selection, and was chosen ht-alignmPnt is bad, Frank could have a problem throwing, but if there is , MVP in the Brooklyn Queens I (SPECIAL STARTS I 10 damage, then he should be able to pass normally. It will take time to \ Catholic League for the second I NEXT WEEK) Ilt>termine just how good the alignment is. year in a row.
I 

"It could have been worse," Frank says. "A lot of people have come , "We're very excited to have then I I 
>ack from something like this. John Huarte <former Irish quarterback in enrolled at Notre Dame," said 
I I 
964 l didn't start until his senior year, and he separated his shoulder the Phelps. "Rencher gives us an 
I I 
... ;pring before, too. He went on to win the Heisman Trophy. I guess in a opportunity to strengthen 1 our vay it's good that it happened early, I've got plenty of time." backcourt, after losing a player of I A FULL SERVICE RECORD STORE~ I 
Allocco will take courses next year to help finish up his Masters in Dwight Clay's caliber, and (lciology and eventually hopes to go on to Law School. He'll be out there Flowers is a good front-line player I NEXT TO RIVER I n the field, too, trying to acheive the goal that has eluded him for so long, who will help replace Peter 12923 !'ISH. AVE. PARK THEA ;!E I nd that he wants so much. Crotty." 









