
OD The Inside 
Anti-hunger day ••.page 3 
Sorin Award ... page 5 



serving the notre dame -sf. mary's community
Vol. IX No. 66 Friday, January 24, 1975 

Between administration and faculty 
•
Cushing cites drop-off 1n two-way communication 
by Kathy Mills Staff Reporter 

Prof. James Cushing, chairman of the Faculty Senate, noted a decrease in "two-way com· munication" between administration and faculty, attributing it to a lack of response to Faculty Senate issues by the administration.·· 
"The administration has not shown any inter~st; they have not even acknowledged the receipt of any reports on governance we· sent them," Cushing stated. 
The Executive Committee of the Faculty Senate has invited Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University President, and some members of the administration to informally discuss several issues of university governance raised by the Senate during the last semester, according to Cushing. 
Cushing explained that such a discussion was proposed "to try to avoid a confrontation at­mosphere." The Faculty senate chairman em­phasized that Father Hesburgh responded to the invitation by saying that it was not clear what the committee wanted to discuss. Cushing then referred Father Hesburgh to the reports which the 
Senatesent him. As yet, the committee has received no further indication from the University president. 
Cushing termed the situation "frustrating," and declared that the administration is "backing the faculty into a corner." He noted a decrease in "two­way communication" between the faculty and administration. 
"What is left except perhaps some rigid and formal procedure like collective bargaining," Cushing added. 
This semester, the Faculty Senate hopes to conduct a referendum during the latter part of February on University government. "Most of the referendum would ask the faculty at large to agree or disagree with isues raised by the Faculty Se.!late," Cushing explained. "The rest of it would 
If,.. .,.;.1lf 


Hesburgh Cushing 

Student concerns avoided 
Alumni Board meets 
by Joe La Flare Starr Reporter 

The Alumni Board, convening on campus this weekend for the first time this year, yesterday passed resolutions to improve internal organization and operation of the Alumni Association. Among the actions taken were presentation of 
nominations for Alumni posts, the planning of a survey of alumni attitudes and revision in procedure of such alumni activities as the Universal Notre Dame nights and the Annual Alumni Reunion. 
Issues of particular concern to students were not discussed. The Alumni Board· will hear a presentation of student problems by Student Body President Pat McLaughlin tonight. 

Nominations to be presented 
The Nominating Committee will present nominations for prospective members. There are 18 members on the Board, each serving a three-year term. Each member represents a different geographical area of the coun­try,encompassing many of the local chapters of the Notre Dame Alumni Clubs. This year six new members will be chosen from the nominees. 
An Alumni Survey will be sent out to 6200 of the 53,000 alumni soliciting their opinions and at­titudes about many facets of Notre Dame, their present relation to the University. and r· •\' th('ir educationhere has i ped th• CJ. 
"This will be an in-de()th o.;urvev covering many areas of th r life, ask the faculty what they would like to do about certain issues," the Faculty Senate chairman said. 
Cushing added that the referendum would contain about a dozen items, including appointments and promotion procedures, the salary issue, Hesburgh's $600 cost of living bonus and a Budget Priprities Committee report. The referendum would also attempt to ascertain faculty reaction on "a Catholic-only type hiring policy," collective bargaining and the evaluation of the administration by the faculty, according to Cushing. 
Indicating that the Faculty Senate is finished with the referendum, Cushing added, "Now it is up to the faculty to respond." 
Cushing outlined a probable course, if the faculty should agree with the Faculty Senate on ap­pointments and promotion procedures. "The Faculty Senate would put that item before the Academic Council," he explained, "in order to try to get the regulations changed." Cushing noted that many of the items on the referendum would probably go to the Academic Council, which has the power to make and change rules. 
"I thought we might be finished with the 
referendum last semester," Cushing said, "but it 
extended into this semester. otherwise we ac­
complished what we wanted to last semester." He 
remarked that the main work of the Seante over the 
last six months preparing reports and articulating 
positions on University governance. 
Cushing noted that the $600 cost of living bonus 
given to the faculty by Father Hesburgh last 
Christmans did not meet last semester's request for 
a permanent increase of $1200. "The ad­
ministration ·never responded to that request," he 
pointed out. 
Cushing also stated that the story in the 
December issue of Notre Dame Magazine, which 
reported a $600 salary increase, was erroneous. 
"They gave us zero per cent, nothing," Cushing 
declared. 
both objective and . subjective opinions." Alumni Board member Edward Alumni Board member alumni-student Iasson Edward Bracken said. The survey will be conducted in conjunction with the Sociology Department. 
The scheduling of Universal Notre Dame Night was relaxed to extend to any part of the year which seems; most desirable. On this night each of the 93 alumni clubs across the nation meet to discuss business matters and items of interest pertinent to the University. 
Traditionally, this night was always held in the spring. The Board decided to extend the choice of the night ot any part of the year which seems most suitable 
(continued on page-3)· 

STATE SENATOR Robert Kovatch, here with representative John Br_ad~mas yesterday expressed his support of the bill to lower the 
drmkmg age to 18. 


Kovach, DuComb lor drinking bill 
by Mary Reher Staff Reporter 
State Senator Robert Kovach and State Representative Robert DuComb each expressed their support of the bill to lower the drinking age to 18 yesterday. 

"The issue has not been discussed on the Senate side yet and I do not want to project the outcome," stated Kovach, "but as I see the bill in the House, after having talked to some of the representatives, I do see some enthusiasm in favor of lowering the drinking age to 18," the State Senator noted. 
"I myself would prefer a billlowerinng the age to 19 instead of 18, because men and women are employed in the military forces and students would be in college at that age or working; this would eliminate the problem of high school drinking," Kovach said. "However, without that alternative, I might very well favor the proposal to lower the drinking age to 18," he added. 
DuComb is in favor of the 18 year old drinking bill, but he said, ''It is hard to say if it will pass; I would say that right now it has about a 50-50 chance to pass." 
"We had a bill a week or so ago about the sale of alcoholic beverages on Sundays which passed the legislature by about 52 or 53 votes," he noted, "but it would be tough to get that same number of votes on this issue." 
Both the representative and the senator see some opposition to the drinking bill in the soutnern area of Indiana. DuComb feels there is also some opposition in the middle part of the state. His colleague in the state senate concurred. 
Kovach stated, "In the southern part of Indiana, the attitude toward any alcohol bill would be viewed differently than in the northern area because of the different make-up of the com­munities. From my observation, there will bemoreopposition to the bill in the south than in the north." 
Both Kovach and DuComb feel that the chances of a bill to free colleges and universities from the responsibility for underage student drinking to pass seem to be very good. Kovach noted that Senate Pro Tempore Tupman also favors this bill. 
In reference to the effectiveness of student lobbying, Kovach said, "All lobbies are good if they are conducted in the proper manner. As of yet, 1 have not seen any students on the drinking issue, but an organized lobby would have some effect" he said. "The major impetus would come from state supported schools such as Indiana State University or Ball University," Kovach noted. 
Kovach also added, "From what I have heard from other senators and representatives about the massive student lob­bying for the Equal Rights Bill, the lobbying for the drinking age to be lowered is quite small in comparison." 
"I have received letters from students in regard to the drinking age," said DuComb, "but as of yet I have not heard from anyone in person." 
In reference to the Indiana Student Association, Kovach said that the students were effective in successfully lobbying to pass a bill allowing the governor to appoint a student representative to the Board of Trustees of certain state-supported schools. 
"Around December 18 of last year, I was on the Education Committee," said Kovach, "And the students gave a presentation in favor of naming student representatives to the Board of Trustees. I was very impressed with their ,presentation at that time," State Senator Kovach stated. 

Hesburgh supports Anti-Hunger Day ...page 3 
Friday, January 24, 1975
the observer 
warld briefs 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. <UPI> -A 17-year-old girl escaped her kid­nappers after 30 hours' captivity Thursday, but the two gunmen remained at large despite a massive police manhunt. 
Loucindy Sherman, 17, the last of four hostages taken from a clothing store Tuesday night during a holdup, broke free from her abductors early Thursday and fled from their hideout. 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -President Ford grabbed the initiative from the Democratic-controlled Congress Thursday by imposing higher tariffs on imported oil as a first step in his economic and energy programs. 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The U.S. Civil Rights Commission Thursday recommended that Congress extend the 1965 Voting Rights Act and ban literacy tests for another 10 years to fight discrimination at the polls. 
LONDON <UPI> -A suspected Irish Republican Army bomb badly damaged a north London pumping station Thursday night in the first bombing incicent in Britain in nearly a month. Scotland Yard said four persons, two of them men working in the station, were taken to a hospital suffering from shock. 


an campus taday 
9 am--workshop, In group plano, speaker f. like, little theater, $5. 9&:30 am--rosenstiel lecture series, dr. hoenlg, mem. lib. 
12:15 pm--lecture, "why urban anthropology?", prof. k. moore, faculty lounge, lib. 5 pm--mass and dinner, bulla shed. 5 pm--vespers, evensong, log chapel. 
6:30 pm--fllm, "anurag", lib. aud. 
7:30 pm--hockey, nd destroys north dakota, ace. 8 pm--world travel series, "america encore exhibition" by r. brower, S2, o'laughlin aud. 9 pm-1am--smc coffeehouse, 9-tom maynard, 10-Jim Ernzen, Chuck Beck, Marylu Eredale, 11-john salveson, 12-steve paspek, choc. sodas 30 cents. 
saturday, january 25, 1975 
12 noon--basketball, nd upturns ucla--again! I, ar.c. 
sunday, january 26, 1975 
3 pm--music recital, young people's concert featuring nd faculty children, lib. aud. 
4:30 pm--vespers, evensong, lady chapel. 
6:30pm--elections, smc law society meeting, 1611e mans 
7 p.m. · cila meeting, summer projects, new members invited, 
library auditorium 7 pm--meeting, Clla, new members Invited, lib. aud. 8 pm--meeting, mecha, Ia fortune. 8 pm--choral concert, smc concert for american cancer society, 
o'laughlln. 8910 pm--film festival, woody allen's "play it again, sam", eng. aud. 
daily 
10-4:45--nd art gallery Including kinsey show, british drawings & watercolors by j.f. mccrlndle, near looking, joe jachna, & vaclav vytlacll. 12-5 pm--drawings & stuffed multiples, j. wantz, p. jones, g. jones, moreau gallery. 12-9 pm--new paintings & drawings, d. schroll, little theater gallery. 12-9 pm--art, "proclne perspectives" by c. knecht, hammes 

Stonehill College, ND plan program of combined engineering, AL degrees 
by John Kenward staff reporter 
The University of Notre Dame and Stonehill College in Easton, Mass. has announced a five-year combination liberal arts and engineering program, which will begin in September, 1975. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
C.S.C. and Rev. Ernest J. Bartell, C.S.C., of Stonehill announced this joint program earlier this week. 
Under the program, "the three­two plan", a student would take three years of liberal arts and engineering preparation at Stonehill followed by two years at the College of Engineering at Notre Dame. 
The student then receives two degrees, a bachelor of arts from Stonehill and a bachelor of science in any one of the following seven engineering categories: aerospace, chemical, civil, elec­trical, mechanical, metallurgical and materials science, and engineering science. 
Stonehill is the latest of 21 colleges to participate in the combination program with other colleges since it was first instituted at Notre Dame in 1951. At the same time Notre Dame started a similar program within its own College of Arts and Letters. 
Among other recent participants 
SMC frosh election 
run-offs to be held 
St. Mary's freshman class presidential and vice presidential posts remain vacant today, as candidates for both positions failed to come up with a simple majority in yesterday's freshman class elections. 
According to Election Com­missioner Katie Keraney, run-offs between Joan Carroza and Kathi Haberkorn for freshman class president and Mary Garrett and Joan Miller for class vice president will be held next Thursday, January 30. 
Laurie McAllister and Mary Klassen were voted class secretary and treasurer, respectively, while vacancies in the Student Assembly were filled by freshman representatives 
Karen Field and Cindy Racuglia. 
Campaigning for class president and vice president can begin immediately, and will run until midnight, Wednesday. 
are Beloit in Wisconsin and DePauw in Indiana. 
Dr. Ettory Peretti, assistant dean of the College of Engineering at Notre Dame, commented on the purpose of the program. "The program gives an opportunity for engineering students to have more liberal arts in their background." 
Those with limited resources are able to go to a local college that is in the program for three years of pre-engineering, and then to Notre Dame for two more years in order to save money, yet still come out with two degrees," he continued. 
Peretti noted the variety of colleges that take part in the program. both Catholic schools as Stonehill which was founded by the Holy Cross Fathers, and non­Catholic. 
When asked if the attaining of two degrees in five years involves accelerated courses or credit­packed semesters, Peretti replied, "Absolutely not. Through the proper planning at both in· stitutions, the mrmmum requirements are met without courses being accelerated or concentrated semesters." 

In order to receive this two degree combination in five years, one does not necessarily have to go to one of the 21 participating colleges for the first three years, Peretti said. 
"One can also receive the two degrees by going thorugh five years of the program here at Notre Dame, However for those who are not able to come here for all that time, the three-two plan is an excellent opportunity," he em· phasized. 
SUNDAY MASSES MAIN OiURCH  
SAT SUN SUN SUN  5:15PM 9:30AM 10:45 AM 12:15 PM  BOB GRIFFIN, CSC FR. ED MALLORY, CSC FR. CLAUDE POMERLEAU, CSC FR. BILL TOOHEY, CSC  

OUR CARRY OUT STORE 
SPECIALIZES IN SELLING 
KEGS AND EQUIPMENT 
PUNCH PACKAGE AVAILABLE 
(we mean the whole thing) 

VODKA, FRUIT PUNCH, COLD DUCK AND ANYTHING ElSE 




Alumni Board aims at improving organization 
(continued from page 1) 
The Board discussed the annual Alumni Reunion which is held in June. They voted to continue in­viting the wives of alumni. This practice was initiated three years ago and has been very successful, according to Bracken. 
Ht'ar rinancial aid report 
Mrs. June McCauslin, director of financial aid, in a presentation before the Board, outlined the various criteria used in deciding who gets financial aid. 
"Her talk was very informative to the Board and we appreciate her taking the time to present this to us," Bracken said. 
Presently, 57 per cent of the student body receives financial aid through one or more of the sundry sources. These sources include government-funded state loans, National Defense Student loans, 
In South Africa 
Lecturers criticize a artheJ Coalition February 2. Hesburgh,
P 
by Mike Sarahan Staff Reporter 

Criticizing the religious denominations in South Africa for their "submission" to the government's policies of apartheid (segregation), Fr. Victor Kotze and Ivor Shapiro, touring lecturers from the Christian Institute of South Africa, called for the churches to undertake a strategy of "conflict" rather than "con­frontation'' and align themselves with the interests of the black majority in seeking the abolition of segregation. 
Speaking before a small audience in the Institute of In­ternational Studies office, Kotze, a Roman Catholic priest from .Johannesburg, called the Catholic Church "a bureaucratic machine" for adapting pro-segregational government policies. Kotze went on to cite number of instances in which the Church had gone beyond mere adaptation in its support of segregation, among these the difference in pay between black and whites in equivalent Church positions and a Church law prohibiting interracial marriages. 
"We have reflected the very 
worst of our own society in the 
lifestyle of the Catholic Church," 
Kotze concluded. Shapiro, com­
munications officer for the South 
African institute, concurred and 
extended his colleague's criticism 
to all the churches in the country. 
Shapiro went on to explain the 
rise of segregation in South 
Africa's history. In 1948, after the 
Dutch Afrikaner Nationalist Party 
won power in a critical election, 
the official mandate of apartheid 
was first introduced as a defense of 
the white minority against the 
black majority. 
Kotze did see a degree of hope 
.•llil••n•llll•m•..w••••••-nr 
:il!li~BJ2JOJI 
!! MISHAWAKA AVINUI AT 30TH !! 
HELD OVER 

PARAMOUKTPICTURESPRISIKTS AN ALBERTs. RUDDY PRODUCTION
BURTREYtD.DS '~THE LONGEST YARD'' 



,___i_~g_RJ~_:~_:~-~~-~-0~-~i_;A_;_:_RN_T;_~:_R~---.!S l~'!!!:!!!~~.!!~~~'!.."!-~ 

work-study programs and scholarships. With the increasing cost of higher education, in­creasing numbers of students are taking advantage of loan and or grant opportunities, McCauslin said. 
A new Executive Director of the Alumni Association has not yet been appointed since the resignation of Mr. James Cooney last year. The Alumni Board views this as an excellent opportunity to review their goals and purposes. According to Murphy, "this provides us with a great op­portunity for introspection." A new Executive Director will be appointed in the near future. 
The Board also reiterated their approval of coeducation and will work in conjunction with the University on any matters of concern. 
Also on the agenda was a brief 
in the recent developments in the '"confrontation" between church and state in South Africa. In as 1973 meeting of the South African Council of Churches, a proposal in supporting conscientious objection to the involvement of the military in the suppression of the balck's liberation movement passed unanimously. When the govern­ment followed with legislation making the "inspiration of con­scientious objection" illegal, the Catholic bishops issued a 

FORMER NOTRE Dame basketball star John Shumate spoke at the UCLA pep rally in the ACC last night. 
------------------1
; The "NAZZ" II Reopens Tonight 1I 
I Friday at 10:00 -1 :00 I 
I 

I Frank Martin,
I


1 Sail, Rich Spangler 
I 



1 Saturday at 10:00 ­
1 .

I Dave Shaheen ~I Joe Klockenkemper 
Bergert, Blanford, Steinman I
! I 
discussion of the role of women in athletics at Notre Dame. 
Wi~liam McGowan, J:Ionorary President of the Alumm Board, commented, "This was a very worthwhile working meeting. We dealt mainly with internal issues of concern to the alumni." 
Sorin award to Haley 
The Board recognized J. Arthur H_aley, class of 1926, by awarding him the Sorin Award in a dinner last night attended by Fr. Hesburgh. 
The Board paid tribute to the late John Armstrong, Executive Director of the Board for 40 years and author of a book entitled Onward to Victory. The first two copies of the book were presented to his wife and Fr. Hesburgh. Armstrong died last year. 
The Alumni Board meets three times each year. The next meeting will be in May. 
for the Anti-Hunger Day, spon­
•d >ored by the Notre Dame Hunger 
statement that they would, as a matter of conscience, disobey that law. 
Still, Kotze and Shapiro urged further church action. "God was in His heaven, but not in touch with the people's lives at the grass roots." Kotze added. 
Shapiro, in a closing comment, s':%gested that one should not look to the churches but to the black nationalists as the "aviator" for social reform and the demise of apartheid. 
I 
I 
I 
II 

1 :00 1 
I
1 I
I 
Friday, .-anuary 24, 1975 
!HE A~UMN I ~a rd. met yesterday, passing resolutions aimed at 1mprov1ng orgamzaflon and operation of the Alumni Association (Photo by .Paul Joyce) · 



Hesburgh supports Anti-Hunger Day 

University President Theodore Hesburgh yesterday urged support 
who will celebrate a mass for the hungry in the ACC on Anti-Hunger Day, praised the efforts of the Coalition. 
"During the recent months I have had the opportunity to talk on national TV programs and contact members of our govern­ment," Hesburgh said. "It en­courages me to know that faculty, students and administration at Notre Dame and St. Mary's are participating in activities spon­sored by the hunger coalition, such as the Anti-Hunger Day." 
Hesburgh 's mass wiil highlight 
the day's activities which will 

mcJUde a meal of tea and rice for 
the entire Notre Dame-St. Mary's 
community. 
Senator Richard Clarke <D­
Iowa) will be the featured speaker 

after the Mass. Clarke is a fresh-
Ladies of NO & SMC $1.00 
Men of ND $5.00 
ONE PRICE: ALL THE BEER YOU CAN DRINK AND ALL THE MUSIC YOU CAN,­


ENJOY. ;~. 

Music by TALISMAN ! ! 
So be there-­everyone else will. 
outspoken leader on the world food crls"is. 
Tea and rice sign-up 

To show concern for the world 
hunger situation on Anti-Hunger 
Day, all members of the Notre 
Dame community can share a 
meal of tea and rice, the typical 
meal for the poor in un­der-developed countries. 
Each student can sign up for the 
tea and rice meal by pledging to 

forego the Dining Hall dinner 
February 2. For each student 
opting for the tea and rice meal, 

the University has agreed to pay 75 
cents to the Christian Organization 
for Relief and Rehabilitation a 
relief organization based 'in 
Bangladesh. 

Members of the Coalition have 
distributed forms to students in the 
residence halls to sign up for the 

dinner. Community Service 
directors in each hall will collect 
the forms by Wednesday. Students 
will be able to register for the meal 
at the Dining Halls Sunday through 
Tuesday. 


,....---------------------------------------------------~~---~ 
Friday, January 24, l97S

4 the observer 
For summer staff 



WSND-FM seeks faculty 
h~· :\lark .Jahne staff reporter 

Hobert Pitt. newly elected program director for WSND-FM, announn·d plans for offering Notre I>amP-St. Mary's faculty members broadcasting positions with the ~tation over the summer months. 
The senior American Studies 
major from Fairfield, felt that his 
first task is to make people aware 
that WSND does in fact have an 
FJ\1 station. The station en­
compasses a Yariety of en­
tPrtainmmt. "We're not just a 
l"iassical record player," Pitt 
I'XplainPd. Programming includes 
•dassil'al music, Ja ?.Z, progressive rock. thl' M!'tropolitan Opera, the Boston Symphony, news, sports and public affairs features. 
l'nlikl' :ts AM counterpart, \\"SND-FM has an approximate da~·tinw range of 30 miles. Since thl' listl'ning audience consists of thl' surrounding community, Pitt fl'Pis that this obliges the station to stay on the air year round, not just cluring the school year. In past yl'ars, l'nough students have stayed over the summer months to make this possible, but this may not hold this year. 
The problem the station faces whenever vacations clear the 
Ford requests additional funds lorSoutheastAsian militaryaid 
WASHINGTON (UPil President Ford will ask Con­gress to appropriate between $200 million and $250 million more for urgent new military aid to Cambodia, White House sources said Thursday. 
The sources said Ford plans to submit the request within a week and that it might accompany another one for an additional $300 million in 
military  assistance  for  South  
Vietnam.  
Roth  requests  are  certain  to  

face stiff opposition in Con­
grt>SS. 
Uncle Willie's 

Fatal Glass of Beer 
daily specials: 
Nton-Thurs 12-6 pm 1 frosted mug 25~ so~ sandwiches: hamburgers cheeseburgers polish sausage kosher dogs 
Tues.. nites pitcher nilte 


pitcher $1 .25 
Fri. &Sat. noon-6 pm 
hotdogs 1a~ 
These Specials Every ~e~k 
...·. 

~· .-. . 
WSND-FM hopes to get faculty members to broadcast during the summer months. (Photo by Paul Joyce) 
campus recurred agam this <'hristmas. While a typical broadcast day usually runs l'lghteen hours, from 8:00 a.m. until 12:00 a.m., WSND-FM was able to broadcast only a few hourrs each evening. 
The only requirement for a 

The Presdient was said to, the additional $300 million aid 
have decided to seek the extra Cambodian aid on an urgent basis because of stepped up Communist attacks that has severely cut the flow of wPapons and other supplies into the capital city of Phnom Penh. 
Congress already has appro­priated $200 million in military assistance for Cambodia in the current fiscal year, but that was less than half the $450 million which the administra­tion sought. 
Ford told a news conference Tuesday that he would request prospective announcer will be passing the Third Class Radio­Tt•lephone license test, required by the f'ederal Communications Commission. Pitt hopes that enough faculty will respond so that the station can maintain its con-slant operation. 

for South Vietnam, calling it "a proper action" to help the Saigon government defend itself against Communist violations of the Paris peace accords. 
However, Senate Majority leader Mike Mansfield predict­ed Thursday Ford will have difficulty convincing Congress to provide extra emergency military aid. "It will be difficult to get further aid for Cambodia and South Vietnam," he told newsmen before the Senate convened. 
307 S. Mich;&•n St. 211·1100 DOORSSTARTS 
OPEN 
TONIGHT! , ()J!O'!EATRE 6:00 
with SpeciaiGuest PETER ALLEN 
SUN. FEB. 9th 8:00 P.M. 
Ticket Prices 
NOTRE DAME
Bleachers _______ $4.50 
Lower Arena _____ $5.50 ATHLETIC AND 

Floor, Loge ______ $6.50 CONVOCATION CENTER 
and Platforms ____ $6.50 
Concert Tickets Now on Sale 
NOTRE DAME, A.C.C. 
Mon. · Sat. 9 to 5 
Robertson's 
South Bend & Concord Moll 
St. Joseph Bank 
and branches 
First Bank 
Main office only 
Elkhart Truth 


Now, full scholarship assistance 
for your junior and senior years, 
plus chance to become a leader in 
the nuclear energy field. 
Tuition. books and educational fees are all included 1n this new NROTC Nuclear Propulsion Candidate program. Along with $100 a month to help you with your living expenses And on top of that you have an opportunity to build a rewarding career for yourself in the fast-growing nuclear energy field 
To qualify. you must have completed one semester each of calculus and physics. or two semesters of calculus and have a B-average or better. 
Depending upon your performance. you w1ll be inter­viewed during your senior year for the Navy's Nuclear Program and for training as a Navy Nuclear Officer. 
If you can qualify for the demanding yet rewardmg nuclear field you can anticipate.five years of employ­ment as a regular Navy officer 
For full details on this new NROTC Nuclear Propulsion 
· Candid.1:e program. phone or see your local Navy . recruiter· 
Be someone special in the Navy. 
CONTACT THE OFFICER PROGRAM'S OFFICER 
NAVAL RECRUITING DISTRICT 
Bldg. 41, NAS Glenview, IL 60026 (312) 657-2165 
.IF.OUT OF TOWN, CALL COLLECT· ·. 
.~:: ••·J ••••• ~ ....... , .. ~······· ••. 


----~----~-----;------------------., 
Friday, January 24, 1975 
the observer 
5 

N.D. alumni present Sorin Award to Haley 
The selection of J. Arthur Haley book entitled "Onward to Victory" University. munity affairs. He is a director of establishing a South Bend service as the recipient of the 1975 Father were presented to his widow, Both the retired director and his :the First Bank & Trust Co., a center during World War II. They 
~~~~~ ~~~~
duced legislation requiring
three-stage, $3 a barrel tax on levy because of their depend­
Ford to begin mandatory gas
imported crude oil. Furious rnce on imported oil, were 
rationing 60 days after the bill
Democrats were left stranded. granted an audience with Ford is enacted.
Congressional threats to pre­
l CAFE de Ia Nuit l
vent Ford from implementing the new levy prompted the 

Mikulski to lecture
President into immediate ac­tion. His decision provoked a tt after the bars... t ' major confrontation with the Senate and House. 
on :minority issues I got the munchies? I
Ford's executive order would put a $1 tax on each barrel of convention .to revise rules for t t
Barbara A. Mikulski, chairman 

imported crude in February, $2 selection of delegates to the 1976
of the Democratic National

in March and $3 in April. The Democratic convention. An out­Committee's Commisssion on : TRY THE CAFE'S I
price of almost every pe­spoken supporter of the Equal
De I ega te Selection and Party

troleum product would in­Hights Amendment, she has been
Structure, will discuss critical 

crease. closely allied with the National
issues facing America today and

Despite Ford's decision, con­Center of Urban Ethnic Affairs. t LATE NIGHT CUISINE t
their effect on minority groups,gressional Democrats moved during a lecture at 8 p.m. Wed­.t t 
ahead with legislation to nesday (Jan. 29) in the Memorial
suspend the tariff for 60 days t t
Library Auditorium. The talk isand then provide 30 more days sponsored by the Center for Civil t featuring: Steak & Eggs t 
for either the Senate and House Rights and is open to the publicto outlaw it. 
without charge. t Omelettes tThe House Ways and Means Presently serving as a BaltimoreCommittee began consideration councilwoman and a member of f for your late night dining tof the legislation and may act the National Women's PoliticalFriday. A similar proposal was Caucus, Ms. Mikulski's political : pleasure Open 11 :00 p.m. :introduced in the Senate but, background includes participation
under an earlier agreement, 
in presidential campaigns datingcannot be debated until next back to Adlai Stevenson's in 1952.

week at the earliest. 
She was a member of the national 

L~::.:~~.:.~~~~~~~.:_bi:l
The effort by congressional committee of Muskie for PresidentDrmocrats faces several hurd­and an ethnic affairs advisor toles. including a probable Sargent Shriver, as well asfilibuster in the Senate. Even if executive committee member foradopted, it could be vetoed by the McGovern-Shriver campaign.
f<'ord. 
Her direction of the delegateAlso shut out by Ford were 10 





NICKlE'S
selection committee is guided by a governors from Northeast and mandate from the 1972 national
'' . A tates who 'mil~... 
Llll" "~' ....5 break, reggae down to 
MONTEGO BAY, 
BURGER &
JAMAICA 
spend 8 days on this sun-drenched 

BEER SPECIAL 
tropical island in the Caribbean
* ROUND TRIP BY AIR JAMAICA JET DETROIT/MONTEGO BAY/DETROIT 
(BUSSE RVICE TO & FROM SOUTH BEND AVAILABLE)
* DELUXE ACCOMODATIONS AT TH·E PLUSH MONTEGO BAY HOLIDAY INN NONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY 
(right on the Caribbean, next to Casinos and Night Clubs)
* CGMPLIMENT ARY RUM PARTY ON ARRIVAL. 
1/2 POUND HAMBURGER
MARCH 22-29 $332 per person INTERESTED? SIGN UP AT THE STUDENT UNION 
AND A 12 OUNCE BEER
TICKET OFFICE FROM 11:30-4:00 DAILY. $25 DEPOSITS WILL BE TAKEN 
FOR ONLY $1.00
TRIP ARRANGEMENT BY 
ST. JOE BANK TRAVEL AGENCY 
210 SOUTH MICHIGA t\Y~I\!UE, DQW!'ITO"Wl'J_ .. , 
Mikuski 

Edward Frederick Sorin Award  Marion Armstrong, and members  wife  have  been  active  in  com- 
and the presentation of the first  of the family. Armstrong, who  
copies of a Notre Dame Alumni  died a year ago, was director of the  
Association history authored by  Notre Dame Alumni Association  
the late Jim Armstrong were  for 41 years and saw it grow from  
highlights of a University of Notre  2,600 members in 1926 to more than  
Dame Alumni Association dinner  50,000 in 1967, his year of  
tonight in the Donor's Room of the  retirement. A foreword by Father  
Morris Inn.  Hesburgh notes that the book is "a  
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh,  warm and often witty account of  
C.S.C., president of the University,  the role alumni have played in the  
announced the selection of Haley  development of Notre Dame from  
for the award, which is named for  an obscure frontier school to an  
Notre Dame's founder and  internationally celebrated  
presented annually to an alumnus  university."  
who has contributed distinguished  Father Hesburgh, also the  
service to the school. Haley  principal speaker of the evening,  
retired in 1970 after serving 44  told directors of the national Notre  
years as director of public  Dame Alumni Association of the  
relations and earlier, as business  gratitude the institution owes such  
manager of athletics. He was  persons as the Haleys and Arm­ 
graduated in 1926.  strongs whose entire careers have  J. Arthur Hal ey 
First copies of the Armstrong  been devoted to advancing the  

Ford iznppses new crude oil tax 
only a snort ume oerore tneRy STEVE GERSTEL came to the White House, signing of the proclamation.WASHINGTON <UPJ) pleading against the import Senate Democratic Leader
President Ford seized the tax. 
Mike Mansfield and Sen. Lowellinitiative from Congress Thurs­The governors, whose states P. Weicker, R-Conn., intro­day and moved to impose a would be hardest hit by the 

trustee of the Morris Civic are the parents of three sons and a 
Auditorium, a former director daughter. of the Rotary Club, president of the Rink Foundation in Goshen, · Armstrong, a previous recipient 
treasurer of the Rockne Memorial of the Sorin Award, the highestFund and president of the St. honor bestowed by the Alumni Joseph Valley Council of the Boy Association, was named publicityScouts of America, a group director following his graduationhonoring him with the coveted from Notre Dame in 1925. The next 
Silver Beaver Award. His wife, the year he was named alumni former Mary Virginia Matson of secretary and held the post under 
Ogden, Utah, has been secretary of six Notre Dame presidents. The the Women's Advisory Council at association and its 175 clubs Notre Dame. a member of the around the nation gained great
Christ Child Society and of the lay prestige during his administration, advisory board of St. Joseph's and he headed the American HospitaL She was instrumental iJI Alumni Council in 1962.
* SMC COFFEEHOUSE il 
TONI HT 

Tom Maynard Undecided John Salveson Steve Paspek 9:30-1:00
under the 

music n'
dining hall 
munchies 

..... ....~~~~~~~t 
-----------------------~-------------------------------------------------------------------­
2300 every hour 
======-by al sandej 

Lose one for Mac 
lh•ar f<:ditor: 
The signing of the Paris peace agreement in December of 1973left us all shell-shocked; the most technologically advanced nation in the world, with an unbroken war­winning streak. could not win a single decisive battle over a country I'Conom ically, politically, and technologically backward. 
At last new information has come to light which reveals a dt>finitl' link between the in­conclusive nature of the war in Vietnam and commander-in-chief II a rry Truman's dismissal of Gmeral Douglas MacArthur in the Parlier Korean conflict. 
Indeed, there is a growing evidence that_the Pentagon didn't care if the· communists defeated them. They let a 1960's offensive turn into a 1973 ceasefire. They wt>ren 't winning one for world peace. they were losing one for Doug MacArthur. They we~e giving the presidency a les~on_ m humility. They were pumshmg Truman through Nixon for not playing one of their most popular colleagues. They didn't throw the war exactly; that much will never be proved. But they did relax. It was one of the last great military protests, it seems. 
"They were mad as hell at Truman and at the USA," said a source at the Pentagon. "They wt>re determined to drive the presidency out of military affairs. It's been an ugly mess here since Korea and much of it has been sectional. The southern soldiers: have always felt uncomfortable in the army. They equate the U.S. army with the defeat of the con­federacy and the southern kids we have been getting lately have all turned into instant militants. Tht>re is a powerful clique in the Pentagon that centers around Creighton Abrams and the USO." 
The Pentagon source also cited the Vietnam catastrophe as the triggering mechanism for Nixon's resignation 20 months later. 
<Anyone interested in the identity of the Pentagon source quoted above should contact w_ells 
Twombley  at  the  San  Francisco  
Examiner.)  
Maureen Flynn  

The Brussels mail service 
Dear Editor: 
Your issue of December 4 an­nounced a Brussels address to which mail could be sent to Not~e Dame and st. Mary's students m Angers despite the strike of the French' postal service w~ich had cut off normal mail co~­munication with France. ThiS Belgian operation was a success. 
It was in mid-November, at a moment when the postal strike took a turn for the worse, that I made the decision to try to restore some measure of two-way com­munication with the U.S. by ren­ting a postal box in Belgium. Had that measure not worked, I was ready to try carrier pigeons. The box number assigned to me seemed a good omen: . 1643--the date of Rocroi, afamousvictory in French military history. I made three trips to Box 1643, and it yielded hundreds of letters for our students here, all avid for mail from home and friends. Merci beaucoup. 
A few haggard letters will oblige me to make one more trip to this Brussels box. Consequently I'd like to let your readers know that the modern Battle of Rocroi is over and won: Box 1643 is closing. Mail service to France, though still a little slow and erratic, is returning to normal. And letters to friends in Angers should again be sent to: S.U.N.D.E.F., B.P. 858, 49005 Angers <Cedex), France. Keep writing. James E. Ward 
Director, S.U.N.D.E.F. 
Real rights to lives 

Dear Editor: 
As impressive as the demon­stration by the "Right to Life" group was today, it still strikes me a s deficient, or at least too narrowly focused. It seems to me that the corollary of "pro-life" is not simply "anti-abortion" but "anti-death." That includes wars, captial punishment, the thoughtless use of violence, and the out-moded and stifling penal system. There is a certain sen­timental cast to the abortion issue, but the very same anti-death stance ought to be taken, ought to have been taken with regard to Vietnam, the civil rights struggle, and many other situations in which persons were deprived of the right to life. Where is our outcry over the starving persons of Africa, Asia and Europe ? Where are our letters to Congressional representative·~ Where is the creative effort summoned from us by Fr. Hesburgh at Thanksgiving? To be pro-life is to be non­selective, to put our money where our mouth is on all life-oriented issues. Yet, and this is the hardest thing to accept, we cannot force our opinions on others. It is for the individual Christian to make his or her dfcision and live it. He or she cannot adopt the approach of "My opinion or else." Jesus Christ did not make the whole Greco-Roman world Christian by force. Israel did 
not make the nations into the Chosen People by force. To possess a truth is a great thing, but to force our truths on others is a perversion. 
So I request my friends at Notre Dame to follow through in your individual Christian decision on all life, without regard to politics or status quo. Let the actions of your own life speak for life, all life, all the time. 
Sincerely, Barbara A. Cullom 


'DOCTOR ••• IT'S TIME.' 

DOONESBURY 
bv Garry Trudeau 
NORM/IN, t(J/L.i BtJT WHY YOU STOP HAKIN6 
;J. CAN tAsr NOT?! I stJCH A FliSS 
9& JUSTAS CHANC0 
Cf)(JtO 00 17; AND WAVE 6000­01.45W AS NORMAN-­I COiJI-0 8Y& 7lJ yOVR 
ANY /)(/118 SH&'s 6ffl7N6 QfJAUFY1 5/STtR?! SH&'S 
'9Rt.ll INTO H!iR 
EASY! / IITTH&RIM 
1.71 I . (J?(J(JCH'
lliHAPY.I

1 
the observer 
Night Editor --William Allen Brink Ass't Night Editor --Valerie Mary Zurblls Layout --Karen Hoare, Katie Kerwin 
Copy Reader --Ann McCarry, Bob Radziewicz Day Editors --Mary Egan, Maureen Flynn Editorials --Daniel "Boone" Sanchez and the mad leg-biter Features--Norman F. Bower, Marlene Zloza, J. Robert Baker 
Sports --Gregory Warren Corgan Typists --Anne Peeler, Don Roos, Mary Tobin, Rick Huber Compugraphic Operator --John Kohn Picture Screener -· AI Night Controllers --Thomas Jennings Whelan, David Anthony Rust 
Welcome Danny Cannonl 
IJ{JT, Mil, 
lr'5 JfJ5T NOT 80Y5 J/R£N'Tr.ti!R/ flOW Cf.J'oft ~[) W SUZY f£T5 TO fiG n:f.CJINO 8& A VotaiNO Vl/<!11~ NtR/tf/IN!
VIR61N AND )ttl K/VO(,(J 
I IXJN'T?! 7HAT! 
I 

In 1850 the world's total population was around one billion people; in 1930 the total rose to two billion. Today there are 4 billion people, with almost 135 million being born and 55 million dying this yea.r, thus the"annual increase of almost 80 million. At this rate there will be approximately· 6.5 billion peopl~ by the year~-Recently, the National Academy of Sciences estimated that if all ~~ resources and technology were used to increase the food productivity rate t~ a maximum, 33 billion people could be fed only at a level of chrome­near starvation, and this cannot be maintained for hundreds of years. 
The population problem stems basically from the fact that 20 per cent of the people in the world today do 80 per ~ent _of the co':l­suming, and this latter figure is increasing With time. Th1s restricts 80 per cent of the people to 20 per cent of ~e resources ~at are consumed. These limits, imposed by the national boundar1~s, trade conditions, and private property rights, compell ~r ~~­dividuals and even nati91ls to live and die under cond1bons m which they are deprived of basic necessary inpu~. for food production such as arable land, water, energy, and fertilizer_. The poor masses are therefore forced to depen~ upon the1r off­spring, and not national resources, for the1~ ow':l o~d age socioeconomic security. To compensate for the rtch mmortty, the poor majority has a birth rate that is over two times greater. The earth is a planet whose renewable and non-renewable res?urces are distributed unevenly. The Gross World Product ~~. $4.6 trillion; with over $200 billion spent globally globally on m1l~t~ry expenditures each year, and only in the neighJ:>orhood 01 $10 ?~Ilion spent annually on bilateral and_ mu~t1lateral non-m1litary foreign aid by the developed nat10ns. There 1s no _rea_s~n to e~pect these population trends to change unless eac~ l_D~IVI~ual m the developed nations reorders his or her own pr10r1bes m terms of voting, eating, and spending money. . . 
The develop de·1eloped nations are located basically m the Northern Hemisphere and consist of the US, Canada, European nations,USSR, Japan, and Australia. Ther comp~i~e about 30 per cent of the world's total population, that 1s 1.2 billion peopl~. In these areas 20 million are born and 10 million die each year w1th an annual gro~th rate of .9 per cent. The averag~ life expectanc~ is 70 years of age and the infant mortality rate IS 20 per 1000 hve births. Only 3 per cent of the adults are illiterate with alm_ost all of the primary school age children attending a.1d graduatmg from grammar school. . . . 
In contrast the developing nations are located basically m the Southern He~isphere and consist of nations in Latin America, Africa, and Asia. They comprise about 70 per cent of the world's total population, that is 2.8 billion people. In the_se areas, 115 million are born and 45 million die each year With an annual growth rate of 2.4 per cent. The average life expectancy is around 45 years of age and the infant mortality rate _is over 100­1000 live births. One half of the adults are illiterate w1th only two thirds of the primary school age children attending grammar school and only half of these graduate. Furthermore 40 per cent of the people (1.1 billion) are underage 15. This P<!s~s dependency and education problems in the present and fertility and unem­ployment complications in the future. The annual rural t~ ur?an migration rate is 5-8 per cent. This presnets he!ath, samtat10n, employment inadequacies in the cities. The env10rnmental_ c?n­ditions are not much better in rural areas where over 1.6 billion people are without an adequate supply of drinking water. The unemployment rate is relatively high, 10-20 per cent. Lastly, the annual per capita living expense averages less th_a~ $240. 
Health and nutrition is a problem for over 2 billion people of the developing nations since that amount lacks the_ quality ~oods for healthy and productive lives and also never r~e1ve~ medical care from a doctor. 700 million have iron anem1a wh1ch lowers the productivity level. 460 million are permanently h~ngry while ~00 million children alone have protein and calorie deficiencie::; which cause retarded physical growth and mental development. 200 million have an enviornmentally induced disease and that same amount has yaws and pinta. 80 million children are born annually without the assistance of a doctor or trained midwife. And up to_ 20 million deaths wach year (2300 every hour) result from starvatiOn or malnutritionrelated diseases. . 
Where do we the Americans fit in? The gross national productls 
$1.4 billion with the national defense budget e::ceeding $80 billion 
annually. Yet non-military foreign aid totals around only $3.5 
billion wh1ch ranks us 14th out of 16 contributing nations as a 
percentage of their gross national product. 20 million have bee':l c1;1t 
off of US food aid betweeen 1972 to 1974. Yet enough gram IS 
currently grown to feed 16 billion people on a non-meat diet. The 
same amount of food that is feeding 210 million Americans could 
adequately feed 1.5 billion Chinese on an average Chinese diet. 
Furthermore, we use more fertilizers on our own lawns, golf­
courses, and cemeteries than India uses on all her lands. The 
US consumer uses 2htimes more oil than the rest of the world on a 
per capita basis -oil that could have gone to into 
someone's stomach through oil produced fertilzers and oil operated 
farm machinery instead of our gas tanks. . 
WE Americans are only 6 per c'"!nt uf the worlds population and 
yet do 30 per cent of the consuming. W~at we should ask ourselves 
is: Do we have a right to own somethmg another needs? 
'=.!:'iday, Januarv 24, 1975 the observer 
7 




homosexuality -a separate reality 
Editor's Note: This is the last in a series of articles dealing with the question of homosexuality at Notre Dame. 
Kevin is a gay student at Notre Dame but unlike Tom, he Jives on campus and is an undergraduate. He is a junior and came to Notre Dame form the Midwest. 
Kevin looked for help from a number of places on campus, some being helpful and some not so. "My encounter with the Notre Dame Psychological Services Center really backfired," he said. 
He admitted that he was not exactly sure what they were up to. "I went there asking for help returning to the staight life but I got the feeling I was being manipulated," he said. 
According to Kevin, they inferred that he 
go out and force himself to acquire some 
sexual interest in girls. "I'd be using people 
if I did that and that was out," he noted. 
Kevin pointed out that this encounter made him assert his "gaydom." 
He noted, however, that many people 
were helpful. "There are some really good 
laymen and priests on this campus who 
helped me through the agonizing," he said. 
Kevin joined the Gay Students Of Notre 
Dame but not before he felt a bit of 
hesitation.. "I was afraid that it would be 
similar to last year's group," he said. He 
('Xplained that the atmosphere of last year's group was too giddy and he didn't sense the sensitivity he expected. "I'm very pleased with the group we have this year," he remarked. 

Kevin also had a definite opinion about the gay bars in South Bend. "It's an easy way to 
get sex but there's no chance of creating on-going relationships," said Kevin. He viewed the forceful hustlers as monsters. He felt that the bars were no different than a swinging singles bar. He pointed out, however, that heterosexuals have other outlets while gays rarely do. "Until society learns to accept public affection, the problem of promiscuity in gay bars will remain," siad Kevin. 
Most of Kevin's friends are straight, although relatively few know he's gay. He pointed out, however, that honesty is necessary with his really close friends. 
"Only one one good friend has had a 
hard time accepting the fact," he noted. He 
also has friends he is sure are gay but is 
reluctant to admit it to them because of a 
fear that it will throw off their equilibrium. 
Referring to the "masculine image" at 
Notre Dame, he noted that his· sexuality 
would probably pose a threat to many. "I'm 
sure if people knew I engaged in 
homosexual activities, many would turn 
hostile towards me." he said. 

"The Notre Dame way for homosexuals 
seems to be to rushout of the closet,have a 
sexual experience, and then Jive in guilt 
until the next venture out of the closet," he 
said. 

Kevin explained that one of the greatest 
fears gays on campus have is that their 
rector will be unsympathetic to their 
situation. "This suspicion of the rector will 
not let you be honest with yourself ; you 
just sit in your room and let your mind 
warp," he speculated. 

He said he felt that because of inept 
rectors and administrators, students are 
forced into the South Bend scene where all 
they can do is goout and cruise'.The Catholic 
tradition and position of many alumni are 
preventing gays from revealing them­
selves." he noted. 

Kevin again asserted his thankfulness for 
the Gay Sfudents of Notre Dame. "The 
group is a lot of sensitive, decent human 
beings who can help each other with their 
problems," he said. 

Psychological Services Center 
Dr. Charles Arens, acting director of the Psychological Services Center refused to 
disclose the number of homosexuals that visit the Center, claiming that that type of information is kept confidential. "I can tell you, however, that only those who are very disturbed about their problem come here," he noted. He explained that the main purpose of the Center is to 'help· the individual work with his fears and anxieties and cope with his problems. "The word gay as used in this situation is really a misnomer," Arens pointed out. He continued by saying that gay people are oftern depressed, bitter, disappointed,; and anxiety-ridden. Referring to The Gay Students of Notre Dame, he noted that their goals seem to be 
, well worked out, although he has not come in direct contact with the organization. "I don't think I wouldever refer anyone to them simply because I come in contact with the deeply disturbed ones and the group does not seem to be that disturbed," said Arens. Dr. Arens pointed out that homosexuality is no longer considered an illness by the American Psychiatric Association. "Rather it is considered an alternate life style," he noted. 
A Religious Viewpoint 
Father Robert Griffin, university chaplain, had some definite opinions about homosexuality in general and here at Notre Dame. Griffin explained that the atmosphere at Notre Dame is less open than at many other schools. "There exists a traditional view which is condemnatory to gays because of a religious conservatism of the Midwest, " he noted. 
According to Griffin, homosexuality is a highly complex, human problem that there is a desire to understand and accept on the part of most. "However, I do think all homosexuality can be as exploitive as any sexuality; maybe even more so," he said. 
The phone call ending the affair came in New York, while you were at lunch with priests. 
The waiter said: "You can use the phone in the kitchen." There seemed to be no other choice, so Spanish-looking cooks watched, without understanding, a drama of near-heart break played in a minor key. 
Until she spoke, you hadn't known who was calling. Then you were embarrassed and angry. You needed to speak tender words, but the trapped beast is never gentle. Still, you tried to sound casual, and came off as a brute. 
You thought to yourself: she should never have called me here. But she was calling, and her questions · were the ultimate ones. Spanish eyes were too watchful for you to attempt explanations. 
She said: "Were you trying to disap­pear?" 
You said: "How did you find me?" 
After that, it was only posssible to say goodbye; and, as the phrase-makers put is, all the world was etched in pain. You didn't want her to suffer like that; you didn't want her to think you didn't care. 
When you are in love, there is a poetry to 
life, and a dance to the day, and the music gal in the sky is your idea of nothing to do ... "But I get a Kick (!) out of you." And so it goes. 
It's stupid isn't it? It is ridiculous to think how vulnerable we are to the foolishness that destroyed Jay Gatsby, and made the rain a symbol of the death separating lovers in i\ Farewell to Arms. But romances do happen, even in middle-aged lives of total commitment. For a wild, techni-colored moment, you are faced with the infinite possiblities of being the superstar in an 
M.G.M. musical, where all the · ordinary rituals, like eating hot dogs and trick-or­treats, become as priceless as the jewels in Tiffany's window. 
As a child, Lytton Strachey has written, Cardinal Newman prayed that the Arabian Night might come true, as a priest, Newman found a world more magic than the Nights. I have my own need for knowing that magic is alive and well, thought I am busy with wonders that keep me from playing at the games of illusion. 
When the affair is ended by a phone call-really, there was no affair at all, so close was Act I to the Final Curtain, and neither one of you wanted to have an affair, anyway-there is always the goodbye note. 
of stars at midnight. If friends accuse you of It comes written, appropriately, on blue being trite, you don't really care, because stationary. Remembered lines go like this: 
for vou, love has redeemed the cliches. 
You're a regular Gene Kelly keeping the beat of a Cole Porter tune, even if you're fat and approaching fifty. "Some enchanted zvening," plays the kid at the piano,"you may meet a stanger ... you may see her dancing, across a crowded room." You're wild again, beguiled again, a whimpering, simpering child again; bewitched, bothered and bewildered are you. Some get their kicks in a plane. Flying up high with some "Up until now, the New York that I loved so much was an inanimate city. In my thoughts it was always associated with subways and skyscrapers, bridges and tunnels, art galleries,and museums, plays and ballets, Now however the city has taken on an entirely new form for me. In my thoughts, it is a citv pulsating with life-it is pirouettes in Washington Square, quiet walks through Greenwich Village,.reflective luncheons at O'Henry's, and last but cer­tainly not least, it is candlelit dinners atop skyscrapers. These are the treasured memories that will always be associated with New York ... " 
I wondered if some lines from Words­
worth. could tell her how I felt: 
The Rainbow comes and goes, 
And lovely is the Rose, 
The Moon doth with delight 

Look round her when the heavens are bare, 
Waters on a starry night 
Are beautiful and fair; 

The sunshine is a gloious birth ; 
But yet I know, wher'er I go, 
That there hath passed away a glory from 
the earth 

.. .in a season of calm weather 
Though inland far we be, 

Our souls have sight of that immortal sea 
Which brought us hither, 

Can in a moment travel thither 
And see the Children sport upon the 
shore, 

And hear the mighty waters tolling 
evermore. 

Thanks to the human heart by which we 
Jive, 

Thanks to its tenderness, its joys and fears 
To me the meanest flower that blows can 
give 

Thoughts that do often lie too deep for 
tears. 

I decided that personal intimations of 
ummortality are too subjective to explain 
anything. 

So if the kid is still at the piano: the party's over; it's time to call it a·day. When we played our charades, we were like 
by andy praschak 
Griffin explained that he is referring to a homosexual lifestyle which for some was a genuine sickness-easy promiscuity, pick­ups and a general misuse of sexuality. 
Speaking of the Catholic Church, Griffin said that he hopes that there are values in the Church that the gay membership cannot find anywhere else. "If a gay person finds himself misunderstood, I hope he will un­derstand that many people's ignorance stems from being only aware of the unhealthy exploitiveness of gay life," said Griffin. 
"We know more about ourselves every year and this is true of man's sexuality. Hopefully, the Church has enough value, truth and love to be participated in by people who find they are misunderstood by some," expounded Griffin. 
Griffin concluded hy saying that it is difficult to speak publicly on a topic such as this without offending somebody. "You must be careful not to make any irresponsible statements about the nature of a sexual problem that I and others can never fully understand," said Griffin. 
"At the same time, I want to be sensitive 
to the gay person who is working out sexual 
problems for which there are not a lot of 
established guidelines," he said. 
The Gay Students of Notre Dame are not 
able to do things such as setting· up a booth 
at Activities Night, which is done by the gay 
groups at Indiana University in 
Bloomington. They, however, have no 
desire to do so at the present time. Their 
main purpose righr now is to reinforce and 
help each other with the problems they are 
faced with in our community. 
The members of the organization stated 
that if there is one point this article gets 
across, they hope it will be that they are 
merely human beings and 
desire to only be treated as such. 

"there are some really good laymen and priests who helped me through the agonizing" 
Letters to a Lonely God 


we were like children dancing 
reverend robert griffin 
children dancing. Better torget her, you with with the stars in your eyes. Play it again, Sam. You played it for her; you can play it for me. Thanks for the memories. 
My trouble is, I've got no class, or I wouldn't even be writing this. I dnn't even 
know how to say goodbye. She writes, in words edged in blue: "It doesn't really matter now." The line sounds like Rhett Butler "Frankly, my dear, I don't give a damn." 
Of course, it does matter: both of us really give a damn.But after that, there'sno place we want to go except for quiet walks through Greenwich Village. Eventually that could cost another phone call, and I couldn't stand being watched again by those curious Spanish eyes. 
OBSERVER FEATURES STAFF MEETING 
Tues., Jan. 28, 8 p.m. at the-Observer Offices. 
All persons covering the Sophomore Literary Festival are asked to attend 
i 
i• 
Friday, January 24, 1975

8 the observer 
MECHA 1neeting scheduled for bi-lingual tutoring prograzn 
As the bi-lingual tutoring program continues into the second semester, MECHA invites all interested students to attend a general meeting on Sunday night at 8:00p.m. in the Mecha office, basement of LaFortune. 
The tutoring program works with Spanish-speaking students who have little or no knowledge of the English language. Most of these students are migrant children whose families are new to South Bend. The tutoring program provides immediate yet tempordry and partial assistance to these students and their teachers while l\1ECHA looks towards a solution that will be more permanent--the t•stablishmPnt of a program within tht> educational system itself that will provide uniform and effective assistance throughout the South Ht>nd Schools. 
In the mean time, this influx of Spanish-speaking students to the South Bend area presents a serious problem in many elementary and high schools. Teachers do not have the experience. training nor 
ADVERTISEMENT 

DEPRESSION ART "FOUND" 
Public-. Offered 1937 U.S. Gov't Art Prints 
A series of rare coincidences has led to the historic discovery of several thousand sets of full color :tntique art prints that were "lost since 1937." They are now being offered to the American public. 
Eleanor Roosevelt Back in 1937, immediately following the depression years, Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt and a select group of a dozen nationally prominent people formed a voluntary national committee for art appreciation to create an art pro~ram that would give the pubhc a well­needed moral lift. It was the committee's decision to select the world's most famous pain­tings from the 16th, 17th, 18th, 19th and 20th centuries -the best paintings of Matisse, Van Gogh, Gainsborough, Picasso, Gauguin, Titian, etc., and to reproduce them in full color as perfectly as humanly possible and make them available to the public at a price within the reach of nearly everyone. Abandoned In 1937 For some unknown reason, after a quantity of these beautiful reproductions were made, the entire project was abandoned and this collection of perfect reproductions was stored in a Brooklyn warehouse, where they remain­ed undisturbed since 1937. The lost collection was "rediscovered" and leading lithographers and art critics agree that the subject matter and quality of detail and color reproduction is incredibly ac­curate. Over $500,000.00 had been spent to make finely engraved glass printin~ plates. These authentic origmal 1937 prints are literally collectors' items and have been appraised by the American Appraisers Assoc. at $7.00 each print. Once they have been sold. there will be no more available. A truly excellent art" investment" that makes a fabulous gift. Available to Public Now, after 38 years these full color 11 "x14" I ave. size) prints are finally available to the public at $19.95 for acollection of 18 prints. Send cash, (heck or money order to: U.S. ~ urplus. Dept. #Xl7. P. 0. Box 605, Tarzana, Calif.91356. Fully GUARANTEED. Certificate of authenticity given with each set. Mastercharge and BankAmericard OK (give card number). Advertisement 
facilities to handle non-English does not have the funds to provide 
speaking students. Schools do not bus transportation, MECHA uses have the money appropriated in cars and reimburses gas expenses. their current budget to provide Because of the nature of the 
classroom aides or bi-lingual in­organization's tutoring program, structors. Last semester, MECHA reliability and dedication are only had the manpower to provide 
important. All interested students tutoring services at one elemen­are asked to come to the meeting
tary school. The task is crucial as 
or to call club President, Martha everyday children are falling Vazquez at 3631 or the club office, behind and high school students at 3834, between 1:00 and 2:00p.m. 
are dropping out. Since MECHA Monday through Friday. 
Juniors begin signing up for '76 yearbook pictures 
Juniors can begin signing up for also explained the advantages of 
their senior yearbook pictures having the pictures taken this 
Tuesday, January 21, in spring. 
both dining halls, according to "This year,there will not be a $1 
Steve Simpson, business manager sitting fee charged in the spring. 
for the Dome. Off-<!ampus However, anyone who waits until 
juniors can call in for ap­next fall will be charged $10, ··he 
pointments any time this week said. "Also, if you don't like the 
between 7-9 p.m. at the Dome proofs, anyone who had them 
office (7524 l. taken this spring can have them 
Simpson said that the retaken next fall at no charge," 
photographer will begin taking the 
Simpson added. senior class pictures on February 
Any further information con­:lrd. 
cerning pictures can be obtained by calling Steve Simpson at 7524.

The Dome business manager 
WORlD HUNGER COALITION 
RICE &TEA MEAL SUNDAY FEB. 2 
In The A. C. C. 



MASS WITH 
FR. HESBURGH Sign Up In The Halls And In The Dining Halls 
A 75 ¢ Refund For Each Person That Signs Up Will Go To The World Hun er Relief Fund 

There are 7,562,489,657,324 products you can buy right now, but none of them will give you more enjoyment (or longer-lasting enjoy­ment) than a stereo music system from us. 
Nothing you can buy right now is likely to please you more or longer than a really good stereo system. 
The system we're featuring here will go on giving you pleasure long after the dust has settled on other things you buy. It's built around a pair of the Smaller Advent Loudspeakers, really remarkable two-way speakers that ~or very little money and very httle of your valuable living space provide all the music to be heard of recordings and broadcasts. The Smaller Advents were designed to compete With the most expensive speakers available. They cover the full ten­octaves of music, and their sound is clean, detailed, and beautifully balanced for various kinds of recordings. 

To power them properly, we've chosen the fine Sherwood S-7110 stereo receiver with clean, low­distortion performance and the ability to get all the FM and AM stations up and down the dial. 
And for playing records, there's the PE 3012 automatic turntable with the Stanton 500E cartridge and diamond stylus. This com­bination will get all the music on your records and treat them gently in the process. 
These components bought separately would add up to $575.00 and be well worth it. But our special system price of $449.00 gives you even more reason to give yourself the gift of music right now. 
So come in and see for yourself how true our headline really is. 



Audio S~ecialists 
415 North Michigan 234-5001 
To raise funds 
Christian Athletes to sponsorworld hunger booth in ACC 
by Janet Carney staff reporter 
Once more, the rising concern of the Notre Dame community towards the current food crisis will be demonstrated this Saturday at the UCLA basketball game. 
The Notre Dame chapter of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes will sponsor a collection booth at the game to promote awareness of the hunger situation, according to Jim Early, president of the FCA. 
The group is a non­denominational organization designed to foster Christian ideals through athletics. 
All funds collected at the booth will go towards the Notre Dame Third World Fund, organized last year by an eight-man board of faculty and students. They were concerned with making apparent to the ND Community the severity of the current situation of star­vation throughout the world, and the need for help in alleviating this problem. 
The proceeds will be allocated in equal proportions among seven funds: CARE. UNICEF. Catholic Helief Services, Church of World Services, Oxford Committee on !<'amine, Co-Workers of Sister 
Theresa.  and  the  International  
Federation  of  Community  
Organizations.  

The idea for the booth was originated and organized by Early. 
"The main purpose of the booth," Early said "is to serve as a reminder to all those attending the athletic events of the urgency of the current world food situation and the need for their help." 
RPcognition of the need for help has also been demonstrated through the daily collections of AI Sondej, a N.D. graduate. He has collected $7,635 since Sept. 15, 1974 for CARE, UNICEF. and Catholic 
Helief Services. said, "Is that people are made The World Hunger Coalition at aware of the problem, and that this 
N.D. has sponsored rice and tea awareness carries through after meals to make members of the they're out of college." community more aware of the food Early agreed, stating that "the crisis. Through the effort of Prof. actual money collected is im­Peter Walsh, the Coalition has portant, but can be effective only if organized voluntary payroll people are made interested in deductions from N.D. faculty donating." "This," he stated, "is members. the primary reason for the 
Sondej expressed hope for collection." University endorsements of ef­The booth will be located in the fective organizations plus in­main concourse of the ACC and volvement of N.D. alumni in the will remain in operation for the cause. "The important thing" he next four games. · 
SMC Concert Choir to sing 
at benefit performance 
The Saint Mary's College Con­cert Choir will give a benefit performance for the American Cancer Society featuring selec­tions from their recent Florida tour. 
The choir, which was established about five years ago, is comprised of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students. The choir also per­formed in major cities throughout Europe during the previous summer. This year the choir has a new director, Armand Kitto, who is with the Music Department of St. Mary's for the first time. "They are a fine group of people. I enjoy working with them;" Kitto stated. 
Over the Christmas break 40 choirists performed in Louisville, Atlanta, Jacksonville, and West Palm Beach. "The group per­formed very well, I think they did a great good for St. Mary's College," Kitto said about the successful tour. "They were very en­thusiastic and had a tremendous spirit. We were all excited about eom ing back together after break," he added. 
After returning from Florida, the choir was approached by a local representative of the American Cancer Society who requested them to perform in the benefit performance. Kitto said that since they had recently returned from the tour, it seemed just natural to accept the offer. 
'l'he concert will be held on Sunday, January 26, at 8:00pm. The program, scheduled for an hour and 15 minutes, will be quite diversified and include selections from Gershwin, Schubert, Schumann and Pete Seeger. In addition to performances by the whole choir, some duets and trios will be featured singing "Sabbath Prayer" from "Fiddler on the Hoof", "By my Side" from "Godspell", "Old Man River", a Bach duet, a selection entitled "Ages '·and others . 
The concert will be performed in O'Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary's. Admission is $1.00 at the door. 
CILA to discuss future projects 
CILA will hold a very important meeting this Sunday January 26 to discuss possible summer projects, according to Project Director Mike Smith. 
Several potential projects will be investigated . They include: community work in Appalachia, work in the urban slums of New Orleans or Davenport, Iowa, service as counselors on an Indian reservation in North or South Dakota, construction work in Mexico, or participation in a medical service program in rural Missouri, Texas or Appalachia. 
For thirteen years now CILA has sponsored Notre Dame and St. Mary's stude~~ in summer service projects in underdeveloped areas. "CILA's basic interest is in people," Smith stated, "the way in which they live their lives." 
"In providing these projects, CILA gives students an op­portunity to meet and work with people who are different form themselves. The people at the project sites will differ from students in terms of their income, education,and cultural background, and often in terms of their race and language, In the communication which dedevelops between the two parties, there is a lot that is learned on both sides," Smith stated. · 
SOUTH BEND'S IRISH PUB 
Falstaff Night Tonight 

SER\IING YOUR FAVORITE BEER, WNEAND COCKTAilS 
ACROSS FR0\1 GOOD OLD CORBY'S 
. CILA is geared not only towards summer projects, Smith em­phasized. "All those who are at­tracted to the Christian ideal of service may find in CILA a com­munity in which they can examine their thoughts and feelings more closely." 
New memebers are cordially invited. If unable to attend, please call Mike Smith at 234-1889. 
campus view 

A NEW APARTMENT 
COM­

MUNITY DEVELOPED FOR THE STUDENTS OF NOTRE DAME & SAINT MARY'S. CAMPUS 
VIEW IS SET IN A WOODED SURROUNDING YET IS ONLY 3 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME. 
LOCATED JUST ONE BLOCK NORTH OF STATE RD. 23 OFF OF WILLIS RD. 
Friday, January 24, 1975 the observer 
You can study the American Arts in England this summer! 
Your Bicentennial summer at the University of Evansville Harlax­ton Study Centre in England will be the learning adventure of your life. Study the Arts in America 200 years later . . . . art, creative writing, dance, drama and music. Earn 9 college credits from June 15toJuly 15. Completecostforroom, board and tuition is $1,000, plus air fare, including a $100 deposit. Your application deadline is April 1. Enrollment is limited, so return the coupon today for complete details. No obligation. 
Yes! I want to know more about my Bicentennial Summer at the Harlaxton Study Centre in England. Please send complete details. 
NAME ________ 
ADDRESS-----­
CITY _STATE ZIP 
PHONE lAC) __ I
1 I will be a college FR SOPH JR SRl (please circle one l 
~------------------------­
TO: Director of Admissions Depto 43 University of Evansville 
P.O. Box 329 
E•;ansvtlle. Ind. 4 7702 
/1 /1!1 University 
~ of Evansville 

~111PUI 
VIe 


GJE and TV\0 BIDRCOM 
RJRNISHED APARTMENTS 
-tr-1 

COMMUNITY BUILDING 
• INDOOR SWI'MMING POOL 
• 
TO BE COMPLETED IN FEB BASKETBALL COURT 
• SHAG CARPET 
• 2 BATHS IN 2 BEDROOM APT 
it: ALL APPLIANCES COLOR COORDINATED it: SECURITY 
• SOUND CONDITIONED 
it: PRIVACY 

NOW RENTING FOR SECOND SEMESTERu FOR RENTAL INFORMATION PHONE 272·1·44l 
.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------··----------­
1Q the observer Friday, January 24, 1975 
·~~~~--------------------~----­
With campus musicians 
SMC coffeehouse reopens 
by Marjorie lrr Starr Heporter 
"A chance to congregate, con­verse and unwind at the end of the long week," along with the sounds of talented campus musicians and chocolate sodas for just 30 cents is being offered tonight by the St. Mary's Coffeehouse in the lower level of the dining hall from 9 p.m. to I a.m. 
Kathy Carrigan, student coor­dinator, calls the coffeehouse as "a place on campus to socialize, listen and just relax--especially now with the social situation as it is. It's also an alternative to the bars and a place to go after parietals end." 
Plans for this semester include formation of a group of volunteer hostesses for Friday nights. "This would he a help to me and would spread the responsibility," said Carrigan. "Arrangements are also being made for a substitute for the mural which has hung on the wall for the last nine years. A decision on this was reached by Sr. Celilia Ann, of the Art Dept., Jim R<!ymo, of photography, Muggs Traudt, Curator, and Diane Davis, Alumni Director," she said. "The new mural, presently being designed by SMC alumnae Sue Friedman and Cathy Shell, will be a photo silk-screen using scenes representative of St. Mary's campus life. The relief will be done on canvas and covered with plexiglass,'' Carrigan explained. 
Also being offered this semester is an entertainment preview. One night per month, the coffeehouse will sponsor dinnertime en­tertainment from upcoming performers. 
Hesponding to inquiries about 
Colnlnittee to watch CIA IFBI lnOVelnents 
WASHINGTON (Upl) _ Dis-derelict in our uuues." · 
playing a catalogue of assassi-Baker said he was not nation tools, two Republican engaged in a vendetta against senators Thursday introduced a the CIA but felt the agency had measure to create a House-massively intruded in the Senate committee to watch political activities of U.S. over the CIA, FBI and other citizens. He said he wanted intelligence-gathering agencie-Congress to investigate the CIA 
s. and the FBI "without fear or Sens. Howard Baker of favor." Tennessee and Lowell Weicker Baker, named Wednesday to of Connecticut, members of the the select Senate committee old Senate Watergate commit-which will investigate the two tee, offered a resolution that agencies, said the panel would would create a 14-member produce neither a "whitewash panel of House and Senate nor a witch hunt" and would members. carefully protect the confiden-It presumably would imple-tiality of highly sensitive CIA ment recommendations that operations. will be made by a newly He said the Joint Committee created special Senate commit-on Atomic Energy had proved 
tee which will investigate the that congressmen and their CIA and issue a report by Sept. staffs were capable of keeping
I. secrets because it had not 
The joint committee as leaked any classified informa­proposed in the Baker-Weicker tion. measure also would be charged with overseeing the Secret Nazz makes plans
Service, the Defense Intelli­gence Agency and the National for thl•S Semester
Security Agency. In introducing the measure, Weicker displayed a catalog of 
The Nazz coffeehouse will be 
booby-trapped cigarette cases, open tonight and Saturday in the telephone receivers and flash­basement of LaFortune. The Nazz 
lights offered for sale to the will begin a "Jazz at the Nazz" U.S. government for ·use abroad series on Wednesday nights. 
and which could be timed to Tonight's performers are Sail at explode in the user's hands. 
lOp.m., Frank Martin at 11 pm,
The "assassination catalo­
and Rich Spangler at 12 pm.
gue," as Weicker called it, was 
Saturday night's sets include Slow prepared by a laboratory in at 10 pm, Dave Shaheen at 11 pm,
suburban Arlington, Va., and and Joe Klockenkemper at 12 pm.
presented to unidentified
an The Nazz is planning a hall talent 
government agency for its 
contest. Any hall wishing to inspection. 
participate may put on a one-hour Weicker said he was astound­show of any nature, including
ed that such equipment could 
comedy or music. A committee be offered a U.S. agency "and will judge and award a $50 prize. 
can be taken as a matter of Any interested halls should contact course." 
their hall presidents, and call 
"This shows," he said, "what 
Ralph Pennino at 6418 or Dave happens when we have been Shaheen at 8432. 

COME TO THE BULLA SHED AN> BRING A FRIEN> mass &dinner every friday 5 pm 
competition with the Nazz, Carrigan cited mutual cooperation and talent exchanges between both coffeehouses. "The Nazz has a definite place at Notre Dame and the Coffeehouse has a definite place at St. Mary's. That's because there is a need on both campuses," she added. 
Anyone interested in performing at the SMC Coffeehouse '>r any girls interested in the hostess group should contact Kathy Carrigan at 4949. 
Tax assistance program slated 
A training session for those volunteers interested in helping with the Tax Assistance Program will be held Tuesday, January 29th at 7 p.m. in room 101 of the Law Building. 
No previous experience is required. The program will consist of an overview on how to prepare Indiana State tax forms. Volunteers will help the TAP members in downtown South Bend, depending on each individual's schedule. 
The TAP is sponsored by the Accounting Department of the College of Business Administration and operates under the supervision of Professor Ken Milani and Professor Jim Wittenbach. Its purpose is to provide aid to South Bend residents in the preparation of State and Federal income tax reports. 
The Tax Assistance Program begins February 8th and runs through April 15th. 

.•·••········••••·•····················•·········•·•····•····················•······•···•····•·•···•· : THE CULTURAL ARTS COMMISSION presents 
• 

PORT AGE LIQUOR MART 
corner Portage & Elm wood 
• 
LARGEST BEER COOLER IN TOWN 

• 
COMPLETE SELECTION OF ALL LIQUOR 

• 
PARTY SUPPLIES 

• 
OUTSTANDING WINE SELECTION 

• 
FULL CASE DISCOUNT 

• 
FREE PARKING & CONVENIENT ACCESS 

• 
FREE DELIVERY 

• 
PARTY ICE 

• 
MIXES 



tome visit with us in our new store. 
From 5-6 Friday, meet Mike Warren, former UCLA great 
Don Creed Howard McFarland Mgr. Asst. Mgr. 

Woody Allen Film Festival 
Engineering Auditorium 
Sunday: Play It Again, Sam Monday: What's Up Tiger Lily? 
Tuesday: Bananas 
Wednesday: Take the Money and Run 
Friday: Everything You Wanted to Know About Sex 
Saturday: Sleeper 
All shows at 8 and 10 except Tiger Lily at 7:30,9:30,10:30 
Admission to Each Film is One Dollar 

\\-( 
' 
f ) 
'· 

.......•......................................... 
leers look for secondsweep of ND's Fighting Sioux 
by Bob Kissel 
Coaches tend to say that every game is an important game. But with the arrival of post-season playoffs, coaches really mean that every game is crucial to their playoff possibilities. Lefty Smith is no different when talking of North Dakota's Fighting Sioux. 
"This series is extremely im­portant, because it is the first time in a while that we have played someone beneath us in the standings," explained the head hockey coach, now in his seventh year at Notre Dame. "We'd sure love to keep them beneath us with a pair of wins." 
In the first half of the regular WCHA season, the Fighting Irish swept both games from the Sioux out in Grand Forks, winning 5-3 and 3-2 (in overtime), back in late November. 
"We have a great deal of respect 
for them, despite their last place 
record," added Smith. "Though 
we beat Dakota twice on their 
home ice, it wasn't easy." 
North Dakota hs very capable 
goaltending in the presence of sopb 
Pete Waselovich, who has made 
599 saves in 17 starts, while 
allowing 5.3 goals against. Not bad 
for a last place goaltender. 
With a 3-17 record, the Fighting 
Sioux have not exactly been put­
ting gray hairs in opposing goalies, 
and strangely enough the high­
point man for North Dakota is a 
freshman defenseman, Dave 
Geving, with 3 goals and 17 assists. 
Trackmen at Illinois Invite 
(continued from page lZ) 
holder (15'8") Mike Hogan. Hogan 
has picked up a lot of strength 
since last year and Faley feels he 
might even scale 17 feet by the end 
of the outdoor season. Also ready 
for a great season is freshman 
Tom Burgmeier, an outstanding 
high school vaulter <over 15') and 
potential challenger to Hogan. 
The middle distances feature a 
solid group of athletes ready for 
some potentially great per­
formances. Co-Captain Mike 
Gahagan barely missed qualifying 
for the nationals last year in the 
1000, and although out for part of 
the cross-country season this fall 
after an appendix operation could 
qualify this year. Seniors Ernie 
Ribera and Denny Boyle will back 
Gahagan up in the 880 and 1000. 
In the mile Notre Dame has two 
outstanding athletes who assistant 
P. b 1· 
coach Joe 1ane e 1eves will go under 4:02 or lower before June. 
Both senior Co-Captain Mike Housely and sophomore Jim Reinhart have run 4:07. Notre 
Dame's fine cross country stars,
Joe Yates and Jim Hurt, will run Pverything from the half to the three mile, and both should sur­
pass the indoormark in the latter ('Vent. Hurt is a 4:10 miler and Yates a 9:06 two-miler, and both 
are expected to improve
significantly on these marks. Some combination of this middle distance crew will form the 2-mile 
relay unit which could possibly run m the nationals. Because of their overall weak spots the Irish will be in trouble in 
dual type competitions. A team must usuany count heavily on its 
sprinters and jumpers for points but Notre Dame will not be able to 
do this. However, because of the 
excellence of some of the better 
Irish athletes the team may fare 
well in some of the major com­
petitions where only the best 
runners can score anyway. Notre 
name has not finished in the top 
ten in the indoor nationals since
1970 when they were led by Rick Wohlhuter. or had an individaul He is closely followed by forwards Tom Goddard, Bob DePiero, Tom Evans, Terry Dennis, Joe Kom­pon, Brad Becker, and Larry Drader, all of whom have around 14 p1ints. 
Coach Rube Bjorkman's crew displays the type of attack which seems to bother ND the most, a quick skating team. The Sioux use their speed and quickness well, dumping the puck into the op­po~ents' zone and running after it, trymg to beat the defense to the corners. 
Notre Dame has itself a one game winning streak going, which may not seem like much, but considering the opponent, is a reason for a turn for the better. The Irish scored more goals last Saturday in their 10-6 pasting of third place Colorado College than any game all season. 
"The lines will be the same as last weekend, in which I feel we showed a balanced scoring at­tack," remarked Lefty Smith "In Saturday's game, eight different people scored across all four lines." 
"The lines will be the same as last weekend in which I feel we showed a balanced scoring at­tack," remarked Lefty Smith. "In Saturday's game, eight different 
people  scored  across  all  four we must grab hold of it," ended  
lines."  Smith.  
"The Walsh unit is  a  proven Both games start at 7:30 in the  

goal-producing line and I know they will continue," commented 
THE ROMA PIZZA * LIQUOR * ITALIAN FOOD 
Your Host Frank Anqstasio ·A PIZZA YOUCANNOT REFUSE' LIVE BANDS ON WEEKENDS 
Call 234-3258 For Delivery 219 N. Mich. Ave. Downtow.n At North End Of River Bend Plaza 
I I I I I I 
• • • BEER SPECIAL • • • this Friday and Saturday* six-pack for $1 . 1 1 * half keg for $19.50 
HOPS 'N' SPIRITS 
812 LaSalle St. Ph. 287·2581 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
& NEW CAR CLEARANCE 
'f 
Smith. "Pat Conroy's line had a good weekend, but they must do it again. Geoff Collier's line has been working well, doing their job for the past couple weeks. Now Don Fairholm's line has started to come into their own, scoring two goals last game. 
Offensively the Brian Walsh centered line will have Alex Pirus on right wing and Clark Hamilton on the other side; Pat Conroy centers for frosh winger Terry Fairholm and junior Mark Olive; Montreal product Geoff Collier will work between the speedy Allen Karsnia and reconverted blueliner Dick Howe; Don Fairholm pivots between the agile Tim Byers and Bill Guisti for the final offensive set. 
Defensively the Irish are a bit thin, with Coach Smith possibly suiting only five blueliners. Jack Brownschidle and Dan Byers are paired, as are Les Larson and Don Jackson. Soph Dave Bossy will spot these defensemen vital rest In goal Smith plans to start Joh~ Peterson Friday night and go with Len Moher, who in tied for tht· goalies' coring race with one point. Saturday night 
"Our schedule, with eight games at home and only four on the road, can really do a lot for us if we get hot. We have the opportunity, now 
ACC. The games will be broadcast by WSND, starting at 7:20. 
t At'  * MuSTAN,.. II1SU  f A' 
* MAVERICKS  &'  
ff  * pINTOS  &'  
f  ~~  
f  &  
f  For a better deaI on any new  ' f  

f 
A 
' 
f 

f$200 -$SOO CASH REBATES'' 
national champion since 1971 when 0 U S 3 · t 
t or used Ford, call Joe, our 
f 

' CampUS representatiVe, & t at 232-4736 ' ' 
,.;tlzn ;a, ' 
f -?~ ftf JOE HAYDEN FORD & t A f LINCOLN/MERCURY 't f 
_£riday, January 24, 1975 
ROBERTSON'S 
BEAUTY SALON 211 S. MICHIGAN STREET -SOUTH BEND CONCORD MALL -ELKHART 

Come see Shemp, Guy and crater 
~~~le~c~~~;~~·--~~~ ..~~...h~~·~·:J:::.<r{l!\~~ ;a~~~~~: line) 683-3920 .. f, .?ota~~~2"~.,r~~A~c~c. 
Irish leers-­

.._..~~~..-. ....~~.._.~~....._..~~~.-. --..... 
the observer 1 1 
Blower-cuts for the two of you. 
CUT-$6.00 SHAMPOO & 
BLOW DRY -$10.50 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Desperately need 3 or 4 UCLA basketball fix. Call Dan, 683-5362. 
Need 2 UCLA tix. Call Tom, 288· 2613. 
Housemate wanted. Private room 1 mile from campus. Fireplace. $60 per mo. Call 233-2352. 
Wanted: 1 used portable b & w TV. Call 272-4156. 
Need 2 or 3 UCLA tickets. Call Joe at 289-3751. 
Urgently need 1 UCLA fix (student or GA). Call Britty, 1875. 
Desperately need 1 UCLA fix. Call Pat, 8156. 
Responsible students desire to rent motorhome for 10 days (March 21· 
30) for trip to Florida. Will pay well. Call Trace, 234-1889. 
Need ride to New Orleans tor Mardi Gras. Will share driving expenses. Call Mary, 4569. 
Need ride to Denver for spring break. Will share driving and expenses. Call Sue, 4302. 
Need 1 UCLA tix. 283-3809. 
FOR SALE 
Set of skis, poles, and size 10 boots. Entire set for $50 or best offer. Also, 6.6 cu. ft. refrigerator (ap. proved for dorm use). $85 or best offer. Call Marty at 289-3751. 
Calculator, brand new. Call Mary, 7953. 
NOTICES 
8-lrack tapes: don't throw them out when they break. I'II buy or repair them for $1. Joe, 3526. 
Anyone interested in bringing Bruce Springsteen to campus please contact Ace at 1806. 
Oversea)io Jobs: Australia, Europe, 
S. America, Africa. Students, all professions and occupations. $700 to $3000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing. Free in· formation: TRANSWORLD RESEARCH CO., Dept. F3, P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera, CA, 94925. 
Sell us your texts and paperbacks for cash or credit. Buying hours from 2:30-3:30 daily. Pandora's Books, 602 N. St. Louis at So. Bend Avenue. 
Money? Morissey Loan will lend up to $150 for 30 days, 1 day waiting period. Basement of LaFortune, daily, 11:15 to 12:15. 
European Trip: LONDON, PARIS, MOSCOW, LENINGRAD, KIEV, ROME. $910. May 26-June 11. Prof. Rubulis, Modern Language Dept. 
SMC Sophomore Variety Show! Talent needed and none refused! Try-outs Sunday Jan. 26th at 2:00 in Regina North Lobby. Prizes for first, second, and third places. For info call 5735 or 5274 
Join our North East Day Care parent cooperative. $15 a month plus 4 hours parent participation per y.reek. 9-5, 233-2233. 
Will teach beginning guitar in my· home. 288-5506 after 7 pm. 
FOR RENT 

Apt. for rent, furnished. $80 single, $120 double. 233-8855. 
3 room apt. for rent. $95 month. Ca II 288-9533 or 232-8392 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: key ring Sat. in SMC tunnel or Regina basement:Reward. Call Mary, 4537. 
Lost: Kingspoint SC-40 calculator. Vicinity Niewland Science Hall. Reward. Call Mike, 7758. 
Lost: silver necklace with diamond chip. If found, call 3525. 
Lost: brown glasses after game (HC). Between ACC? BP. 289-3408. 
Hitchhiker lost 1 ski mitten in car 
Tues.  nile,  1-21-75.  Architecture  
student  or  people  in  Mustang  
please call 232-9747.  

Found: 1 tan, sma II size corduroy fleece-lined coat. Contact Lost and Found in Library. 
PERSONALS Higgs and Bobber: Congrads on your engagement. from all of us 
My dearest pickles: Do you believe in love at first sight? I do. And I'll do it anytime! 
Love, the SKOAD 
P.S. Love your dill. 
Schlitz, Your 24 points outshone us all and proved you to be the real hero. A Team 
Dearest Ralph-ee-pooh: We heard you got the ol' one. two!!! 
Passionately yours, The Girls of Edison High School!! 
My dearest Chestnut II, 
I  need  your  continuing  
psychoanalysis  to  ensure  my  
social well-being.  
Love, Pharaoh  

Dear Mushy Kid: Candy is dandy, but not like olive~ and brandy. 
Love, SK 
Is it true that John Sicora's socks smell ·as 'ba6 ·as his breatfl'? 
. . .' . . .' . . . .... . . .. ... .
~ 

~ 
L 
f i 
... 
.(. 
• 

-----------------~---------------------------------------...1111 

Friday, January 24, 1975

the observer
.. 
by Bill Brink center Bill Walton, is gone now and with him fellow All-American When you're welcomed home by Keith Wilkes and two other star­two over-zealous referees who turn ters. But coach John Wooden still two twenty minute halves into a has all the tools. He had enough at two and a half hour fiasco, things least to handle the Irish last can only get better; right? December 21 in Los Angeles, Wrong. At least not if your next handing them an 85-72 defeat. ND visitor is the usually-not-so­played impressively for most of gracious John Wooden and his the game, taking leads of 19 and 16 UCLA Bruins. Not that Wooden points, but they were unable to and Co. are consciously hostile to retain their poise and composure their hosts, but they usually end up in the face of UCLA's second-half 
making you wish that you had onslaught. 
crossed them off your guest list "I think we proved we could stay long ago. with UCLA by playing as well as Coming off eight tough games on we did in Los Angeles last month," 
the road, it was not exactly home said Digger. "By beating us, they sweet home for Coach Digger extended their home court winning Phelps and his players as they streak to 71 games, so you know struggled to overcome both the how tough it is to win out there. We refs and Holy Cross for a narrow should have the same kind of 
1. 96-91 victory. The Irish per-advantage at our place so you formance, however, was know it's going to be another of somewhat less-than-inspired, and those great games in the series." it will take considerably more to UCLA enters the game with a 14­
send the Bruins home convinced 1 record, having suffered their only that South Bend is not even a nice defeat at the hands of a surprising place to visit. Stanford team last weekend. They 
Last year UCLA entered the ACC are ranked second in the Coaches owning a tall, gangly redhead and poll and fourth in the A.P. poll. an 88 game winning streak. They Their coach, the "Wizard of 
left with only the redhead, the Westwood" John Wooden, has built 
streak having been ended by Notre a college basketball dynasty Dame's exciting upset victory. during the 60's and early 70's, his The Bruins showed more gratitude string of eight national cham­
• 
to their hosts then, declining to pionships being broken last year 
score for the final 3 minutes and 22 by North Carolina State. seconds of the game so that the Leading the Bruins is senior Irish could come up with the last forward Dave Meyers, UCLA's top 
ADRIAN DANTLEY stops and pops over Ralph Drollinger out at UCLA's twelve points and a 71-70 victory. scorer and only returning starter. Pauley Pavillion earlier this year. The Irish lost that one 85-72. The redhead, all-American Meyers paced the Bruins first-half 
For Dan Devine, part of the new challenge is following a legend 
by Greg Corgan Sports Editor 
Legends never die. But sometimes they move on. And when they do, you go out and find another. 


Dan Devine's been that route before, at least once removed. In 1971 he replaced Phil Bengston as head coach of the Green Bay Packers. Bengston had, of course, succeeded the immortal Vince Lombardi. This time, .however, Devine's taking the direct approach because as the new head football coach at the University of Notre Dame he replaces the second winningest coach in Irish history, Ara Par­seghian. 
"It's tough following anybody that's had success," says Devine. "If you want to make an easy job of it then you come in after somebody who hasn't been so successful. Obviously it would have been easier for me to follow Joe Kuharich 11 years ago, than Ara Parseghian now, but that's part of the challenge." 
This is Devine's fourth such head coach "challenge." After four year's as an assistant coach at Michigan State he took over head duties at Arizona State in 1955, compiling a 27-3-1 record including ASU's first unbeaten and nationally ranked team in 1957. Devine then accepted the head coaching job at the University of Missouri where he remained until 1971 when he joined the Packers. 
In 1961 Devine's Tigers won the Orange Bowl, the first bowl win in Missouri history. Devine coached teams went on to capture one Bluebonnett 0963), one Sugar 0966), and one Gator Bowl 0969) trophy. At Green Bay, in three years, Devine compiled a 19-19-4 mark including a 10-4 record in 1972 when the Packers won the National F'ootball Conference's Central Division Championship. FOR DAN Devine, first step is "filling those holes." 
With a return to the college ranks Devine brings a combined record of 120-40-8 in 16 years. Asked if there's a big difference between could make their whole season, their whole century, bybeating us next college and professional football, the 49 year old Wisconsin native year. says, "Actually there's not much:lifferenceat all. Besides the way you "I remember in 1970 when I was at Missouri and we played Notre acquire your players, the draft in the pro's, and recruiting in college, Dame. I had one of the most crippled football teams I'd ever had and things are pretty much the same. You run into the same tensions, my first losing team ever; we were 5-6. But although we lost (24-7), we drug scene, family problems, marriage problems with college plays played one of the best games of the season and for one reason: it was as with professionals. And as far as motivation is concerned it's Notre Dame." always easier to motivate a player that has pride. Otherwise he isn't Devine's immediate goal, however, is, as he puts it, "filling those worth much anyway." holes on the personnel board." His first step was a team meeting 
"As far as coming to Notre Dame, I wouldn't have gone to any other which he held Wednesday. "My first thought, as it would be with any college. I had gotten four or five offers at the end of the year, but I had coach, was that I was losing a lot of good players, a Wayne Bullock, a rlecided tht I would either stay at Green Bay or go to another Greg Collins, and that it sure would be nice to have all of them back professional team. One school held an offer open for two weeks until I next year. But I looked over the group we had and it's a good group. made the decision to come here." "I've looked at a lost of film, but I won't be able to judge the per­
Devine looks almost too nice to be a football coach. He's slight of sonnel fully until spring practice. We'll make adjustments after that. build and his dark brown hair shows traces of gray. When he I do know that we'll have to get experienced real quick." puts on his dark-rimmed glasses he looks as if he may just have left a Filling the rest of the holes means recruiting and Devine plans to classroom on the second lfoor of O'Shaughnessy Hall. "He looks like a travel along with the rest of his staff throughout the period before the 
.. 
college professor," said Pittsburgh Steeler linebacker Andy Russell, national letter of intent is to be signed. "The bowl game puts you one of the many collegiate stars coached by Devine, "but there's steel behind recruiting and with the date for the signing of the national inside that mild-mannered exterior." letter of intent moved up to Feb. 19 I will travel myself. We can't af­
He may also have been a misplaced Domer. ford to have someone sitting here in the office." 
"I have this warm feeling about Notre Dame," Devine relates. "I'm Devine added three new members to his coaching staff. Johnny kind of a corny guy, but I really believe there's going to be a point in Roland, a former St. Louis Cardinal running back, will be in charge of the season where the X's and O's won't win the game. It'll be in the special teams,Mervin Johnson of Arkansas will become Devine's of­fourth quarter and the opposing team may have better players and be fensive coordinator, while Hank Kuhlmann comes from Green Bay as better prepared but that's where the spirit of Notre Dame is going to Devine's offensive backfield coach. Holdovers from Parseghian's pull us through." staff, George Kelly, Paul Shoults, Joe Yon to, Mike Stock, Greg Blache 
For Devine the challenge of Notre Dame football means, among and Brian Boulac round out the assistants. other things, upholding a tradition and following in the footsteps of one For 1975? "You shouldn't be coaching if you're not out to be 11-Q," of the greatest. "But," says Devine, "I just want to be judged by what says Devine. I do." And one major obstacle is, as always, Southern Cal. "You know," 
Like Ara, Devine will also be constantly under the gun. Opposing says Dan, "I've coached against Bud Wilkinson and Bear Bryant and a coahces know what it's like to play Notre Dame. "Beating Notre host of other top college football coaches, but I've never met John Dame," says Dan, "is for some the epitome of life. Boston College McKay. I guess the guys'll be up for that one." 

effort in Iastmonth'sbattle with the Irish. leaving it up toteammate Richard Washington to spark the second-half comeback. Washington led UCLA with 25 points in that game, and is their second leading scorer for the season. 
The backcourt is anchored by Andre McCarter and Pete Trgovich, a senior from East Chicago, Indiana. Promising sophomore Marquese Johnson is almost fully recovered from his bout with hepititas, as evidenced by his superb performance against Maryland in the Maryland In­vitational. At center Wooden starts Junior Ralph Drollinger, who tops all Bruin rebounders with over ten per game. 
Phelps, meanwhile, is looking for another strong performance from star forward Adrian Dantley. 
Dantley chalked up 30 points and 14 rebounds in the last game against UCLA. and his 30 points in the Holy Cross game the other night set his average at 32.1. Complimenting his will him will be his partner at forward Bill Paterno, who is second to Dantley in the scoring and rebound categories. 
By virtue of their outstanding performances against Holy Cross, sophomores Toby Knight and David Kuczmiz are expected to see 
considerable action. Knight scored 19 points against the Crusaders while pulling down 16 rebounds. Kuz provided a sur­prising spark by pouring in 20 points in only 22 minutes. 
As usual, in a game of this magnitude and intensity, the home court advantage should play an important role. Playing in Pauley Pavilion last December was certainly a plus for the Bruins and the Irish are hoping that a repeat of last year's enthusiastic support will give them an added boost. At any rate, Phelps and his players are releived at finally being home. 
"The players need to win a few to regain their confidence," said Digger. "Playing eight games in a row on the road against the likes of UCLA, Kentucky, Maryland, Pittsburgh and Marquette is a difficult assignment for any team. And especially so. for an inex­perienced squad like ours. But we have nine of the last 12 at home and that should help." 
With a little help from their friends, the Irish could very well make their home just that much sweeter. 

Trackmen travel to Illinois for season opener by Pat Holleran 
After over four months of preparation Coach Don Faley's track team opens its indoor season .January 25th at the University of Illinois. Nine schools take part in the invitational affair with host Illinois expected to provide most of the excitement 
The Irish appear to be weak overall this year with but a few bright spots, judging from last year's results and an intrasquad meet run before Christmas. The team will have problems par­ticularly in the flat events from the 60 through the 600 where no athlete is threatening national qualifying standards or is expected to place in major competitions. 
Best of the sprint group is probably Paul Martuscello who stepped off a 32.3 300 before Christmas. The teamwill be significantly stronger in the hurdles where Chuck Wills is more than capable of solid per­formances. Unfortunately for the Irish, however, the jumps and the throws will probably be an especially dismal area, and Notre Dame may not even field com­petitors in some of these events. 
Irish hopes this year rest in two areas--the pole vault and the middle distances. In the vault the Irish are led by school record 
(continued on page 11) 








