Oza The Inside 
SMC reactlons to search ..... page 3 
Student job cut 
....... page 6 
Vol. IX, No. 65 



serving the notre dome -st. mary's community 
Thursday. January 23, 1975 


Commemorates Right to Life Day 
Hesburgh offers Mass for unborn 
by Valerie Zurblis Staff Reporter 
"The mystery of life is the heart of our concern--it is a gift so magnificent that 
no one but God had the rights over it. He gives abundantly and doesn't abuse it." 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, University President, said these words at a 
special mass for the right to llfe _yesterday. The concelebrated mass was held on 
the second anniversary of the Su,Preme C,purt decision of Roe vs. Wade which 
enables woman to recteve abortiOn on demand. 
Hesburgh stressed that hmpans do make mistakes. He made reference to the Plessy-Furgeson Supreme Court case where blacks were declared equal but separate. This was reversed in 1954 in the Brown decision. 
50 -year wait 

"We had to wait 50 years for a regression of what was done," Hesburgh said, "We will not wait 50 long years to do something about it, we had best be more strategic than we have been today and do something about it." he continued. 
Examples of Hitler's incineration of millions of Jews during World War II was the law then and everyone under hin prescribed to it. "Yet they were extremely wrong in the name of the law. Today the Smllrem€ Court says abortion is le~itimate and we can 
~~l. 


HESBURGH: "We will uphold the Right to Life everywhere we go in everything we do." 
with reflection it can be seen as extremely wrong," Hesburgh noted. 
The promise of a human being 

Hesburgh argued that once life begins it moves along a path and becomes what it is created to be-in this case a human being. "It is fruitless to argue when precisely 
a human can be defined because we know that at the end there is the promise of a human being," Hesburgh explained. 
Hesburgh feels that it is wrong for someone to take the omnipresent power of God to decide which humans will live and which will die. "We were brought up to respect the law, but if we thing decisions should be refuted we must refute them," he said. 
The University president brought up the women's libber philosophy that it was a woman's right to have an abortion if she wants it. "I believe in woman's liberation but I can not believe in abortion being a fundamental right of it," he said. "I think women have no more right over life than anyone else." 
On sex attitudes Hesburgh said that there was much today that dehumanized the concept of sex which, to him is life created on a human scale for God to create a m~rtal soul. "Sex gives God the greatest gift--the power to give life and for man to collaborate with him," he stated. 
Respect for iife 

Hesburgh also stressed that if Catholics showed their respect for life in the unborn child, they should show it across the board--the old, young, diseased, deprived, starving and racially different should all be respected with the right to live. 
"Speaking one's respect for life .and cl~~ing his eyes on 
others in the world today disqualifies us to say 
anything at all," commented Hesburgh. 

To convince Americans that Catholics really respect 

HESBURGH:"I believe in women's liberation, but cannot believe in abortion." 
the right to life, Hesburgh urged that we have to change our judgements from the beginning of con­ception to the end of life. 
"What I am, you were" 
"I think it is a terrible thing that all over the world life is degraded for unborn people and for people born and doomed to die very soon. If we really want to convince the world and our country that we have respect for life, we had better start showing respect for life and the justice should attempt the promise if life for every human being in the world--black or white, western or oriental, rich or poor, young or old. We are 
for the right to life and to its flowering, not just its' birth. We will uphold the right to life everywhere we go in everything we do and will vindicate that right even if a personal sacrifice might call upon us." Hesburghcommented. 
He then related a story about when he was in Hong Kong and saw a sign above a cemetery entrance which read, "What you are, I once was, What I am, you soon will be." Hesburgh transcribed that for the unborn, as if they say to us, "What I am now, you once were. What you now are, I shall somehow sometime hope to be." 
The mass, which was attended by a large crowd, was concelebrated by Father William Lewers, provincial of the Holy Cross Brothers, Archbishop Lawrence Graner, who spent some time is Bangladesh, Father William Toohey and Father Edmund Joyce. 
After clothes store robbery 


South Bend gunmen escape with hostage 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. <UPI>--Two gunmen vanished holding the two patrolmen, the wife of the store own':r 
were released. Later, one of the two remaining
with a 17-year-old girl prisoner Wednesday after freeing five other hostages in a deal with police for two getaway vehicles and a promise that they would not be pursued. 
The bandits, one carrying a sawed-off shotgun and the other a pistol, were trapped by police while robbing a clothing store Tuesday night. The men originally took six persons hostages in the store, but released two of them later Tuesday. 
Keep girl employee captive 

During a chase by police helicopter and cars Wed­nesday, they released three more, keeping captive only Loucindy Sherman, a high school student employed at the clothing store. A van and a car provided by police were found abandoned later in a northwest area of South Bend, and police converged on the section in the belief the bandits were holed up there. 
Police Chief John H. Walsh refused to reveal if the police knew the identity of the gunmen or to give their descriptions. He said only that they and Miss Sherman were black. 
The two men were trapped in Rosenbaum's Clothiers Tuesday night by police who had answered an alarm. They grabbed the six hostages as protection from police fire and bargained for a getaway van, which was provi(led and then later exchanged for a sedan. 
Police in squad cars and a helicopter kept sur­veillance on the van as it traveled through South Bend, into Michigan and then back to South Bend. 
The chase began at about 10:55 p.m. when the van headed west on Western Street and turned north on Walnut. 
Police pursue gunmen 

The van was temporarily lost by pursuing police 
units but was then found. The chase continued as the 
kidnapers drove on Elwood to Angela.
Turning south on Eddy St., the vehicle 
wound through the northeast sector of town before 
stopping for about 10 minutes on Sorin near Eddy. 
The van then headed into Michigan, travelling in the 
vicinity of the Michiana Regional Airport. Finally, it 
returned to South Bend. 
The gunmen later agreed to take two policemen who 
volunteered to substitute for the hostages. Then and Miss Sherman as captives, the gunmen drove off m hostages was left in car in a parking lot and the gun­the van. A few hours later after zig-zagging north to a men escaped on foot with Miss Sherman, police said. 
spot near Niles, Mich., and then heading back to South The kidnapers and Miss Sherman still have not been Bend, they demanded that police quit tracking them located, and police believe that they are still travelling and that they get a car instead of a van. 

together. Earlier yesterday afternoon, police obtained Police agreed to the deal in exchange for release of a warrant to search a house on the West Side, butall hostages. During the vehicle exchang, two captives nothing turned up. 
Mardi Gras plans outlined 
by Maureen Flynn with the halls," he continued. "They get prevented this year by the Dealers' 
Staff Reporter half and we get half, but we pay all the School and the security system. 
construction expenses, etc. It's quite a "This year Mardi Gras has instituted 
Mardi Gras chairman Dan Sullivan deal." its own Dealers' School," explainedcommented last night on the financial In order to qualify for the $5 rebate on Sullivan. "In past years the committee 
aspects of Mardi Gras and outlined the each book sold a hall must sell a trained the hall chairman and he then security system which has been set up number of books equal to 90 percent of trained his own dealers. We found this to prevent loss of revenue due to its population. resulted in a great loss of revenue cheating. "We don't know yet what's been because dealers from different booths 
"We have more booths this year then sold," Sullivan pointed out. "Maybe a had different understanding of the 
ever before," said Sullivan, "and each large percentage have already been rules. This time all dealers will be booth has more windows, tables , and sold. We'll know on Friday. We'll also following the same standard set of games. This means we'll be able to have a list of who sold how many books rules." 
handle a larger crowd and realize more of tickets, so we can distribute Mardi Sullivan admitted there were some profit." Gras admission buttons." problems last year with crooked"We hope everyone sold their books Sullivan explained that each student dealing and expressed the hope that the 
of raffle tickets," he added. "We will be who sells one book is entitled to a Mardi Dealers' School would weed out the 

in dire straits if the raffle falls through. Gras ·button which admits him to the potential cheaters. If not, SecurityYears ago it was the raffle that carried activities at Stepan free. Chairman Dean Laurich has devised a the carnival, but in recent history the Sullivan does not anticipate that security system employing both carnival has had to carry the raffle." Mardi Gras will incur any debts. "If the uniformed and plainclothes officers to Sullivan said that the Mardi Gras will enthusiasm of the small band of act as a deterrent for dishonest dealers 
recommend cancellation of the raffle workers who are here every night or patrons.for next year's event if sales are "as constructing booths for the halls is "The booths are responsible for their miserable as in the past." indicative of the feelings of the general dealers," said Sullivan. "If a dealer is 
"We have offered to pay the halls $5 student body," he stated, "then the caught cheating, his booth could be per book sold if they reach their quota," carnival should be able to bail out the fined or temporarily closed. He himself explained Sullivan. "This amounts to raffle if necessary." will be turned over to the Dean of 
approximately $25,000 with no strings Sullivan does not expect the losses in Students, as will any dishonest patron." 
attached. This has never been done revenue which resulted from "We regret having to use such before and its at far as we can go." dishonesty and misunderstanding last strong methods to insure integrity,"
"We're more than splittina the profits year. He hopes that these will be Sullivan stated. ­


the observer Thursday, January 23. 1975
2 
warld briefs 
WASHINGTON <UPI>--The Treasury Department announced Wednesday it will borrow a record $28 billion in the next six months to finance the growing red-ink deficits of the federal government. The massive incursion of the government into the capital markets will squeeze the amount of available money and could give an upward push to interest rates. 
WASHINGTON <UPU-Appointment of a civil rights coordinator with authority to enforce school desegregation in Boston and elsewhere was recommended to President Ford Wednesday by the 
U.S. Civil Rights Commission. 
CONCORD N.H. <UPI>-The New Hampshire Legislature Wednesday was expected to approve legislation inviting the U.S. Senate to call a rerun of history's closest Senate election. Gov. Meldrim Thompson said he would sign the measure within two hours of passage. 
VANDENBERG AFB, Calif. <UPI>-An earth resources satellite, hailed as the prototype of the most useful spacecraft yet devised, was launched Wednesday to join a sister ship scanning every portion of the globe with cameras and sensors. 
WASHINGTON <UPI>-The government reported Wednesday that a record 970,200 persons joined the rolls of unemploymnt in­surance applicants in the week ended Jan. 11, signalling another sharp increase in the nation's overall unemployment rate. 
PARIS <UPI>-Bishop Roger Tort, 56, died of heart attack in or near a hotel used by prostitutes in Les Halles section of Paris six days ago, the second high ranking Roman Catholic prelate in f'rance to die in such circumstances within nine months, police said Wenesday. 

an campus taday 
4:00pm . seminar, "triplet excitons in ki and host sensitization of ki: tl under slow electron impact, xy "by william hamill, rad. lab. con. rm. 
7:00pm-pep rally, "rally for this saturday's ucla game" in the pitt of the ace. 
7:30pm. lecture, "the first canonization of jewish liturgy" by dr. sidney hownig in the lib aud. 
8:00pm . lecture, "apartheid, christianity and liberation; church vs. state in south africa", in room 1201, mem. lib. 
8:00 pm . dance program, "the all-american jazz dance party" featuring the gus giordana dance co. in wash. hall. 
8:00pm . recital, student piano recital by jeanne norell, in little
..: . 
. ..rt'. 
Violence continues 


British. IRA cut off peace talks 
By FHA!'I:K JOIINSTON BELFAST <UP!) The 

r British government said Wednesday it was breaking off indirect contacts with the Irish HPpublican Army until the new outbreak of violence in North­ern Ireland ends. The message was conveyed at a meeting Wednesday between two representatives of NorthPrn Ireland Secretary MPrlyn Hees and two members of Sinn Fein, the legal political wing of the IRA. It was the second such session in four 
,. ... 

this spring break, reggae dow~. to 
MONTEGO BAY, 


JAMAICA 
spend 8 days on this sun-drenched tropical island in the Caribbean
* ROUND TRIP BY AIR JAMAICA JET DETROIT/MONTEGO BAY/DETROIT , 
<BUS SERVICE TO & F'ROM SOUTH BEND AVAILABLE)
* DELUXE ACCOMODATIONS AT THE PLUSH MONTEGO BAY HOLIDAY INN 
(right on the Caribbean, next to Casinos and Night Clubs)
* COMPLIMENTARY RUM PARTY ON ARRIVAL 
MARCH 22-29 $332 per person 
INTERESTED? SIGN UP AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE FROM 11 :30-4:00 DAILY. $25 DEPOSITS WILL BE TAKEN 
TRIP ARRA~GEMENT BY 
ST. JOE BANK TRAVEL AGENCY 
210 SOVTH !\.liCHIGAN AVE!I>il!E. DOWNTOWN 

ended Jan. 16 after 25 days. t>xecution squad. "My officials a !so have made 
The Observer is published dally

it clear," the statement said, 
during the college semester except 

"that as long as violence 
vacations by the students of the continues in the way it has in 
University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions

the last few days there can be 
may be pur<:hased for $9 per

no point in detailed discussion 
semester ($16 per year) from The 

of such arrangements." 
Observer Elox' Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 

Four persons have been killed 
in Northern Ireland since 
46556. 

. . .. . . 





Visitorsdesert ,-----------------t 
SMC Social Commission 
Darby's Place~ 
by Mariannt> Schulte Starr Rt>porter 
The new semester has brought about a drop in attendance at Darby's Place, acting manager Bob Bode said yesterday. The number of visitors to the "clean, well-lighted placP" has fallen from its average of 200 people per night to approximately fifty or less throughout the course of the morning. 
Darby's Place was established early last semester by University Chaplain Father Griffin who recognized a nt•ed for a place for students to go during the early morning hours in order to casuually socialize m· to continue their studying after the library had dosed. 
Sinct> its opening. Darby's Place, located in the basement of LaFortune Student Ct•nter has l'njoyed a steady stream of in­somniacs. ambitious students, and social die-hards who pn·fer to stay up and talk with old friends and make new acquantances rather than catch up on their sleep. Others just drop by to say hello to thl' proprit'ter. Father Griffin, and his faithful companion and dog, Darby O'Gill. after whom the place was nam('d. 
Bode exp["{'Ssed.his concern over the fall in attendance , but at­tributPd the decline to the fact that very few studPnts have tests to be studying for as yet. HP also suggested that thP colder weather might lw giving students second thoughts a bout coming over to Darby's. 
Darby's Place is open every night from Monday to Thursday, 12:00-4::JO a.m. All in search of good convPrsation, solitude, and refreshmmts are always welcome. 
f t t t t 
t 
t 
t 
t 
f 
t t 


Pool Party 
8-12 SAT. Jan 25 Free 
ALL SMC & ND Students 
invited 
Regina South 
Refreshments Pool tables Music Swimming 
Dance with us this weekend at the Library 
Thursday nite special Bring back last year's famous bender 

"hurricane" for $1 

., 
. ..,
-IN-•• ,. 
. .c 

if one man b-irgs a little rrore love.... 
THEN THAT MANS LIFE HAS MEANING 
The Crosiers are an Order of Brothers and Priests who see their ministry in light of today's world. If you are interested, call Ed Sellner, O.S.C. at 283-3189. 
Room 327, Holy Cross Hall 
A statement issued by Rees said the meeting had been called to discuss arrangements to guarantee that there would be no break down of any new IRA cease-fire like the one that bloodshed since the holiday truce began Dec. 22. The latest victim, found near the border with the Irish Republic, was hooded and police said appar­ently was the victim of an IRA 


Thursday. January23~·~1~97~s~------t~h~e~o~b~s~e~rv~e~r______~3 
Views differ on SMC candidates 
by Sue Nelson Staff Reporter 
The results of the search for a new president at St. Mary's has met with varied reactions from administrators. faculty and students on the campus. 
Five candidates were submitted to the Corporate Board of the Sisters of Holy Cross by the Presidential Search Committee, thus eoncluding a 10-month search for a m•w president that began with the March 1974 resignation of Dr. Edward L. Henry. The search L'Ommitteewas composed of members of the Board of Ih•gents. faculty members, ad­ministrators. and a student. Over 250 applications for the post were reviewed by the Search Com­mittee. 
"The eandidates for President 

On February~ 

should have had more exposure to the student body, in fairness to the candidates. as well as for student benefit." said Mary Lou Bilek, sophomore Class President at St. Mary's and Student Board of Governancemember,in reaction to the selection of candidates for 
President of the College. 
Tess Lehman, -student 
representative on the Search 
Committee said, "I definitely feel 
that the candidates chosen were 
the best of all the people who 
contacted the College,". 
Lt>hman added that the Search 
Committee was the best method 
possible for selecting Presidential 
candidates. as it was comprised of 
representatives from every facet 
of the St. Mary's community. 
Lt>hman noted however. that she 
"would have liked to have seen more students on the Search Committee." She felt that the committee was imbalanced in favor of Board of Regents mem­bers, and felt that an equal number 
of  students  should  have  been  
present.  
Mary O'Donnell,  Sophomore  

Class Vice-President, noted that "students should have had more of a say in the decisioo. It would have been mce to know the qualifications of these men -I mean. we didn't know who was up for the job until the Observer ar­ticle came out." 
Interviews with a random sampling of St. Mary's students showt:>d that most agreed with this view. "We don't !illow who these mt>n are -and one of them will be "making decisions on our behalf. I think the students shoul have been 
ND plans anti-hunger day 
by Gregg Bangs 
Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition is sponsoring a day of prayer, action, and education in observance of the worldwide concern over the hunger situation on Sunday, February 2. The entire Notre Dame community is invited to participate in the day's ac­tivities which include a mass celebrated by University President Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., and rice and tea meal. 
The mass will be celebrated at 
4:30 Sunday afternoon in the Athletic and Convocation Center. In his sermon, Hesburgh will emphasize the significance of the hunger issue and the importance of awareness, sacrifice and prayer. 
From 5:30 to 6:30, members of the Notre Dame community have a chance to show their concern over the hunger situation by par­ticipating in a tea and rice meal at the A.C.C. The University will contribute seventy five cents to the Christian Organization for Relief and Rehabilitation <CORR) for every student who passes up his regular dinner and partakes in the rice and tea meal. 
This is the second such meal presented to the Notre Dame community by the Hunger Coalition. As a result of the last rice and tea meal held the Tuesday before Thanksgiving, a total of $1117.00 was raised to begin a fund fur the relief of the hungry. 
Bouffard resigns managing posts 
b~ Lunnit• Luna 
StaH Ht•Jtul"!t••· 
tton Boullara nas announced his 
rP~ignation as ticket manager and 
as~i~tant business manager of 
1'\otn• l>amt•. The resignation will 
not ht>t'omt• official until March I. 
Bouffard. a :\otre Dame 
graduatP. took the .Job as assistant 
business manager the day after he 
graduatt•d in June. 1966. He 
remained an assistant until March, 
1969. when he was promoted to 
ticket managt:>r. Bouffard was 
offered a CPA (Certified Public 
Accountant) position with a South 
Bmd firm. 
Bouffard was the center of 
controversy early in the fall of last 
year. The issue was over the 100 
percent increase in the season 
basketball tickets. It seems as if 
neither student body had received 
notices of the price increase. 
Bouffard said that any delay in 
mailing the application was caused 
when Pat McLaughlin, student 
body president, and Fr. Edmund 
Joyce were mannt:>ring out the 
price compromise for Notre Dame 
students. Bouffard was also ac­
cused of discrimination because of 
the high prices and separate 
sections for St. Man· 's students. 
In regard to his· resignation, 
Bouffard said. "It was a hard 
decision. I really hatC' to leave 
Notre DamP but I ha,i to think of 
my family's future. The new job 
should prove to be a challenge." 

The last time this meal was held, pledges were ciruclated before meals at both the north and south dining halls. The result was successful. However, a large number of the students who pledged to partake in the meal failed to do so. The University only gave seventy five cents to the fund for every student who showed up at the meal, so the final amount raised did not live up to previous expectations. 
In order to improve upon the number of people attending this meal, the pledges will now be brought to the ND-SMC com­munity on a dorm to dorm basis. Mike Davis, head of community service directors, is spearheading this campaign, which began last night. Students can expect their respective dormitory's community service directors to visit their room within the week. 
Mary Ann Roemer, a member of the Coalition, hoped that the directors would be able to em­phasize the students' attendance at the meal. "By sending the directors to the students, we can explain to the students that their presence at the meal is required to procure the seventy five cents that the University vowed to give for each student giving up his normal meal," she explained. 
Roemer added that off campus students are welcome to attend. However, they must pay a dollar and a half at the door, half of which will go to CORR. 
CORR is a relief organization located in Bangla-Desh. It's president, Richard Timm, C.S.C., is a native of Michigan City and a graduate of Notre Dame. 
Working hand in hand with the CORR on this anti-hunger day is the Notre Dame Hunger Coalition. 
Reverend  Frank  Gartland,  the  
newly appointed  director  of  the  
coalition,  has  organized  its  

members into five task forces to coordinate the event. They include food services, media, faculty, liturgy and Cooperation groups. 
One of the guests attending anti­hunger day activities is Senator Richard Clarke <D-Iowa) a leader of the world hunger cause in the Senate. 
Senior survey gets extension 

Due to a problem with survey distribution and mailing, the deadline for returning the Senior Ball surveys has been extended. The surveys can be submitted to the Morrissey Loan Fund office anytime before this Sunday, January 25, at noon. Because of a mailing mix-up and some address changes, some seniors did not receive the questionnaires until yesterday. However, the Com­mittee must have all surveys by Sunday, since final tabulations and decisions must be made as soon as possible. All seniors are urged to fill out the form and return it bySunday. 
able to meet them" one student noted. 
Lehman noted that all members of the Student Board of Governance were allowed to meet with prospective candidates. She added that an attempt was made for some kind of interaction between St. Mary's students and prospective presidential can­didates, perhaps thr~gh an informal coffee house. Plans had to be cancelled, however, because of interference with Christmas vacations. Some candidates also gave specific requests that their applications be handled con­fidentially, Lehman added. 
Among faculty members, there was a general agreement that the Search committee had done an excellent job in handling the task set before them. "I know the Committee has selected the best candidate for the position, and I hope the Corporate Board of the Sisters of Holy Cross will choose as wisely -and promptly," com­mented Dr. Rita Cassidy, Chair­man of Faculty Senate. 
Acareer in law­
WithOUt laW SChOOl. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the six courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 700 graduates in law firms. banks, and corporations in over 60 cities. 
If you are a s!udent of high academic standing and are mterested m a career as a Lawyer's Assistant we'd like to meet you. ' 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. We will visit your campus on TUESDAY,FEBRUARY11 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 
Indiana T. Reg. #AC0035 

SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR .NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$695 $895 

Single occupancy_ Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond.J _Phones. 
Send this ad to your parents 



4 the observer 
For SMC seniors 

New-career progra1n planned 
by Kathy Skiba S&aff Reporter  
Karen Mary's Center,  O'Neil, director Career Develannounced a  of St. opment major  

develo~ment program to be held for semors on Wednesday, January 
29. 'lbe prdgram, labeled, "It's Not Too Late: Let's Talk About Your Future Now," will be presented in the basement of Regina Hall from 6 until 10 p.m.
Featured will be, "information on the specifics of life and career planning relative to academic background and past experience," according to O'Neil. 

'lbe program will be open to all senior women of St. Mary's and Notre Dame, "who are looking for jobs, applying to graduate school, getting married, or uncertain as to their future plans," she said. 
Several stations will be set up in the basement of Regina, each dealing with one of the various aspects of career and life planning. Each of these stations will be staffed by a senior or a community member well-oriented to the particular area. 
Areas to be presented include: the value of a liberal arts education; the business op­portunities for liberal arts graduates; the job outlook in 
St. Mary's room selection undergoes policy change 
by Cathy Busto Staff Reporter 
The basic room selection procedure for this spring at St. Mary's was outlined by SMC Housing Coordinator Nannette Blais yesterday.
Under the new policy, a student can "freeze" her room and remove it from the lottery, but a room cannot be reserved unless all of the present occupants in the room state that they wish to remain in it. "If anyone does not wish to 'freeze' the room, or if any one of the oc­cupants does not wish to remain 'a resident student, then all of the occupants must enter the lottery," Blais explained.
Anyone who has not reserved a room will pick a class lottery number, she added. 
A quota of beds per wing wi11 also be set aside for freshmen under the new policy. "All of the wings in all of the halls (where conducive) except the Southwest and Southeast wings of LeMans will have a quota of beds set aside for freshmen before room picks take place for the upperclassmen of the upcoming year," Blais noted. Priority of room Selection will be according to class lottery number. 

"A quota of beds per wing means setting aside a certain number of beds per wing, not setting aside specific beds in a wing," Blais continued. 
Blais emphasized that a detailed outline of the procedures will follow in the next three weeks and will be publicized campus-wide within three weeks. Anyonewishing to discuss the policy after publication of all the details can set up an appointment to discuss it. 
The housing office will also have an ombudsman telephone service one week before room pies to answer questions about the new policy. 
Unemployment spirals: continued inflation seen 
by Hich ard llughs llPI Busint>ss Writer 
A record number of Americans are receiving unemployment benefits, the Labor Department said Wednesday. Large and small companies closed plants, and Treasury Secretary William Simon said a high inflation rate will continue for years. 
The reports of deepening recession and Simon's prediction of more years of rising prices camP as President Ford and Congress clashed over ways to solve the nation's economic and t.'nergy problems. 
One economist who attended a White House briefing on Ford's package told UP! he came away convinced Ford and his advisers don't t.'xpect or want their proposals to be enacted, not­withstanding public statements of support. 
''In my opinion," he said, "I don't even think they want a tax cut that would bri~ large budget deficits--plus inflation." 
The l>con<rn is t, who asked not to be idtmtified, said he got the "clear impressioo" the administration's proposa Is for a tax rebate and for $30 h1llion in higher fuel costs were part of a "game plan" to out­maneuver Congress, force a stalemate and delay enactment of any program. 
The U~Ehot of the strategy, he 
said, would be to allow time for 
regular market forces to work-­
allow the recess ion to run its 
course without pump-priming that 
could worsen inflation. Junior parents' reservations due 
All parents planning to attend 
the Junior Parents' Weekend 
program should have their 
reservation forms returned by 
February 1, J. Patrick Boyle, 
Parents' Weekend committee 
chairman said yesterday. This 
will allow the committee to mail 
tickets and confirmations by Feb. 
15. 
"There is still plenty of time to 
forward invitations to parents who 
may not have gottm them due to 
postal difficulties," Boyle said. 
Any Junior whose parents have not 
received invitations should contact 
Boyle at 289-2521. 
The program runs from Friday, 
Feb. 28 to &lnday, March 2. 

today's economic situation; get­ting established in a new city; and retaining identity in or out of marriage.
In addition, booths will be set upfor various fields including government, communityorganization, health, art, and education. Also featured will be booths on post-graduate studies and non-teaching jobs for teachers. 
There will be a general in­formation booth for registrationwith U... Career Development Center fer those who haven't done so as yet, and a resource station with books, pamphlets, and other general career planning in­formation. O'Neil noted that the latter would be "a good place to start for those who don't know just where to start." 
Another booth will provideassistance with the technical skills of writing a resume, and com­pleting an interview. O'Neil noted that both group and individual attention would be provided in these areas. 
O'Neil stressed, "It's not too late 
for seniors to start thinking about 
what they want to do. We hope that 
it will be an informal evening with 
a lot of discussion, and that the 
program will provide a lot of 
support, a lot of encouragement, 
and hopefully a lot of answers." 
Noting that the presentations 
would not be geared solely towards 
job counseling, O'Neil explained 
that "the program will deal with 
all the options available to 
graduates, including graduate 
work, marriage, travel, etc." 
Although the program is being 
held for seniors, similar programs 
are being planned for all class 
levels by the development center. 

Some people might need to be coaxed with more than a full college schol­arship to enroll in the Air Force ROTC. So, if free tuition, lab and incidental fees aren't enough ...the Air Force offers a monthly allowance of $100.00, tax­free, in your junior and senior years, even if you are not on scholarship. And flying lessons to those qualified providethemost exciting benefit of all. Interested? 
Contact Captain Shepherd 
At Bldg 5, Telephone 6634 
PUT IT ALL TOGETHER IN AIR FORCE ROTC 
PORTAGE LIQUOR MART 
corner Portage & Elm wood 
• 
LARGEST BEER COOLER IN TOWN 

• 
COMPLETE SELECTION OF ALL LIQUOR 

• 
PARTY SUPPLIES 


• 
OUTSTANDING WINE SELECTION 

• 
FULL CASE DISCOUNT 

•·FREE 
PARKING & CONVENIENT ACCESS FREE DELIVERY 

• 
PARTY ICE 

• 
MIXES 



me visit with us in our new store. 
From 5·6 Friday, meet Mike Warren, former UCLA great 
Don Creed Howard McFarland Mr. Asst. Mgr. 



TOM'S UNIVERSITY STANDARD 
17993 STATE ROAD 23 272-0083 

CONVENIENTLY LOCATED  
AT THE CORNER OF  
f ~  IRONWOOD AND STATE ROAD 23 ACROSS FROM THRIF-T-MART  



r 
' 
COMPLETE CAR CARE WINTER CLEARANCE ON TIRES 
10 PERCENT DISCOUNT TO N.D. & S.M.C. STUDENTS 
A NIGHT AT THE RACES 
CTUAL WAGERING, DAILY DOUBLES AND EXACT AS 

KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS FRIDAY JAN 24th 8-1 OPM 
PROCEEDS TO GIBAULT HOME FOR BOYS 

5

Thursday, January 23, 1975 the observer 
homosexuality -a separate experience 
by andy praschak 
Editor's Note: This is the second in a series of three articles dealing with the question of homosexuality at Notre Dame. The series will continue today and Friday. 
The South Bend Gay Scene 

For members of the gay community of South Bend, as well as a number of Notre Dame students, the majority of interaction takes place at the two gay bars in the heart of tlle city. 
A few members of the Gay Students of Notre Dame who have been to the bars tried to describe them to the reporter as best they could but suggested that the only way to write about gay bars is to actually ex-· perience a night there. 
The reporter decided to take their advice and get a taste of the South Bend gay life. Hoping to spend the night strictly as an outside observer, he asked a girlfriend, Judy, if she'd be willing to join him in an evening of investigative reporting. She complied and they were soon on their way. 
The first bar the two visited has a 
reputation for being more quiet and con­servative than most gay bars. "You may not even be able to tell that it is a gay bar," Tom warned. 

When the couple first arrived, the sparse crowd turned and seemed to be checking them out as they made their way to the table. However, this seems to happen in any bar and they found nothing unusual about it. 

The decor of the bar was the same as that .found in any neighborhood bar: a pool table, a well supplied bar, high ceilings and .an aging bartender. 
For the first hour, the outsiders sat alone at the table with no interaction with any of the patrons. The bar, however, was getting crowded and occasionally one of the "regulars" would make an entrance and shower his friends with hugs and kisses. 
It soon became obvious that they were being watched and sometimes even blatantly stared at. The stares, however, were not hostile but rather ones trying to send a message that someone was interested in one of them. 
On my way to the juke box, one of the bolder members waited until the reporter passed and said, "You're pretty hot, baby." Being at a loss for words, all he could think to do was turn around and say "Thank you." 
After a while, the forward one came to the table, introduced himself, apologized for his actions and asked if he could join the table. They obliged. 
The next question was, "Are you gay?" Wishing to neither discourage him nor lead him on, the reporter simply replied, "Whatever ... " He seemed to interpret the answer the way he wanted and was soon askingthereporter to go home with him, if for only an hour. 
His friends eventually began to filter over to the table and join in the conversation. Most were courteous but there were a few who were obviously experienced hustlers. It was made clear that the reporter was not leaving with anybody and the crowd around the table eventually began to thin out. However, four or five guys left matchbooks with their names and addresses and in­structions to look them up if he changed his mind. 
Nonetheless, the persistent "trophy hunter" refused to be discouraged and was now bargaining for only a half hour alone. "I can't leave Judy here alone," the reporter said. He simply replied, "Bring her along, we can find her a friend too." He finally got the message and left the table, leaving only his calling card, the infamous book of matches. 

The crowd at the table soon dispersed and all that were left were Judy, Donnie and the reporter. Donnie had been quite shy all evening and spoke up only occasionally. 
Meanwhile, the all male customers seemed to be loosening up. They began to dance, sing, embrace and compete for the attention of the crowd. 
Somehow, the reporter and his guest felt that Donnie wanted to talk and they were the only people he could talk with. He ex­plained that he came to the bars often but hated the whole scene. Naturally he was asked why he kept coming if he hated it. "There's just no where else around that I can be with other gays," he replied. 
When asked why he disliked it so much, he said that he was tired of always being hustled and used only for sex. He said he was just looking for someone who could understand and love him. "But that's just not possible in this environment and where else do I have to go?" he said. 
He then proceeded to tell of his loneliness and the lack of stability in all his relation­ships. The reporter began to feel guilty about deceiving Donnie and using a mental notebook to record everything he was telling in confidence. The journalist debated with himself and then decided to tell him why he was really at the gay bar. 
"I'm relieved to hear you're straight," he 
said. "I was beginning to really value our 
relationship but I was afraid we would mess 
it up with sex in the end," he confessed. 
From then on he said he would cooperate as 
best he could and offered to take the 
reporter to the other gay bar. 
The next bar differed greatly in ap­
pearance and atmosphere, although the 
clientele seemed the same. The decor in­
cluded the basic posters, blacklights and 
background rock music. The mood seemed 
to be more relaxed and the dance floor was 
very crowded. The number of amorous 
couples also increased. 
Donnie pointed out who the "big studs" 
were and where the latest romances were 
seated. He was eventually thanked for his help and told the reporter that he would have to leave soon. Donnie asked if the reporter would do him a favor, "Let me tvll everyone we are "tricking" (leaving together). He obliged and they walked out together, with Judy following behind. "That will teach those bitches," Donnie laughed. 

In the interview with Tom, the grad student, he admitted that he · had once frequented the bars that had been visited but that no longer was "his scene." "I don't consider those people my peers," he noted. "Those people jump around and act crazv because it is the only damn time they can be themselves,' he said. 
He went on to explain that one of the main purposes of The Gay Students of Notre Dame is to overcome this problem by providing an outlet so there's not so much of a shift from a person's everyday life to the gay life. 
Other members of Gay Students of Notre 
Dame were explicit in stating that the gay life of the people in South Bend was much different from theirs and exhibited the problems they are attempting to overcome. 


... his loneliness and his lack of stability in all his relationships ... 
an artist's fascination with people 
An exhibition of Douglas Kinsey's recent paintings opened Sunday, January 19, in the University Art Gallery. Kinsey, a faculty member in the art department, will display his work until February 25. 
A full and unique environment exists in the gallery. Large and small paintings break up the wall space, and three painted screens, each six feet tall, dominate the center of the room. Most of the paintings employ human figures, but there are two flower arrangements and five watercolor still lifes. 
On a trip to Africa, Kinsey was horrified by human starvation, and his concern for this problem is evident in his work. ''HE>roism of Modern Life" is a study of 
Bangladesh refugees waiting in a food line. rhere are countless people, pressed .ogether in a crowd, each one with an in­:lividual appeal. The theme of this painting 
IS the one and the many. 
"Children of Affluence," hanging next to 1t, has this same scene depicted in the background, except that it appears in muted tones of grey. The addition is three figures in the foreground, lounging comfortably, unaware of the hungry people so close to them. 
Kinsey feels strongly that we cannot survive as a human race unless we think of ourselves as one large group sharing the same problems. He is helping by con­tributing the proceeds of his painting sales to the American Friends Service Committee for Famine Relief. 
Along the same lines, the artist also is 
fascinated by people and their relationships 
with one another. He paints people lost in 
solitude, people reaching out to one another, 
and people together who are.indifferent to 
one another's presence. "Red Screen" is 
taken from a photograph of the Woodstock 
festival. It is a frighter'ng painting, a 
wasteland image of people '1o are together 
but unaware of each other Although they 
could reachout and touch each other, they 
have no connection with anyone else. The colors are low in intensity, which casts a wierd unreal light on the figures. 

"Listening" reflects the artist's concern with human relationships. It depicts three people sitting together in a bare living room, one boy touching another's shoulder in a gesture of despair. The effect is one of desparation amid community. 
Kinsey feels that people touching one another is a very basic kind of subject matter. "Blue Screen" shows two people embracing one another, a boy and a girl, and next to them is a solitary person. The colors are blended in such a way that the painting glows warmly. 
Kinsey is intrigued by color luminosity. He recently began working with low­intensity colors, to the point of being dull, yet using light and shadow in such a way as to achieve a luminous effect. The result is a bleached-out, faded color area that has a sheen to it, and also the effect of sobriety. 
One of the ways in which Kinsey achieves this particular result is by grading the in­tensity of a certain color. Colors gradually blend into much darker shades on almost all of his paintings. the back of "Red Screen" is divided into three areas of color -maroon, gold, and blue-grey -and Kinsey considers each area a painting in itself. All of the colors are graded from light to dark, thereby comprising a study in luminosity. 

"Winter's Flight" employs luminosity richly. It is an oil screen of a tree growing in the back yard of faculty member Bill Kremer. Kinsey sat outside in the pouring rain for an hour with his sketchbook, trying to capture winter before it melted into spring. 
Another idea which intrigues Kinsey is the tryptich, or the division of a surface into three segments. "Heroism of Modern Life" has two lines which divide it, one of these is due to the fact that the photograph from which it was taken had a crease in it. and 
by janet denefe 
Kinsey like the effect. Consequentiy, he used lines on many of his paintings, such as "Misty Flats," until he decided that it was too artificial, and what he really wanted was to paint on three paneled Japanese-like screens. 
None of Kinsey's paintings are simplistic. "Ancient Stories" has four sections, two are painted of flood refuges, one depicts Cain slaying Abel, and the last is Narcissus staring at his reflection in a pond. All of these are themes of destruction: a flood creates damage, fraticide is self-hate, and narcisism is self-love. 
Kinsey's show is more than an exhibition of his paintings; it is also a demonstration of his concern with humanity as a whole and with humans as individuals. 

Tonight at 8:00p.m. the Gus Giordano Dance Company wlll present a jazz dance concert on the O'Loughlin stage. Tickets are $1.50 per person and available at the door. 
the observer Thursday, January 23, 1975
6 

Only library jobs affected 
Budget cut forces dismissal of student help 
the end of last semester, there· was during the holidays." Extra program are guaranteed. of applicants varies each year." 

by 1\lartha Fanning Staff Ht>port.-r 
Sl•veral student positions were recently discontinued by the library. This action was attributed to a cut in the budget. 
Maria O'Meara, one of the studt•nts effected, said, "When I Wl'nt over there to fill out my schPdule at the beginning of the sPmt>ster. they informed me that I couldn't work there anymore." 
O"MPara also said she was surprised at this action since, at no indication that she would lose her job. 

Another student affected, Damian Lt•ader. stated, "I was told that they couldn't keep me on dul' to a budget cut." 
Most of the students were unaware of the cutback in jobs until they returned from break. 
Joseph O'Brien, Director of Personnel. said he learned of the lay-offs last week. The ex­planations he received were that the budget was cut and that the library had "overextended itself people were employed to enable completion of necessary work before second semester. 
Most students effected, however, had worked there all semester. Some stayed on an extra two weeks during the Christmas vacation but this was understood at that time to be temporary work. 
Many of the students involved in the lay-off are part of service credit program. They work a certain number of hours and a deduction is made in their tuition paymmt. Jobs for students in this 

Head Start looks for volunteers for 600 SouthBend pre-schoolers 
b)· Anna Monardo Staff H.-porter 
The South Bend Head Start program is seeking student volunteers to work with culturally disadvantaged pre-school students. 
According to Lucy McCulloigh, a Ht>ad Start spokesman, there are over 600 children in the South Bend community who are in need of friendly, concerned students to take ar. interest in them, to talk to them. to make them feel important and sure of themselves. Head Start is attempting to fill that need with a child development program to give pre-school children from economically and culturally disadvantaged backgrounds the benefits of which they should not be deprived. 

The program offers medical services, social services, nutrition, and an educational program in­volving the child and his parents and family. 
Head Start is designed to prepare pre-school children from disadvantaged homes to enter school on a more equal footing with their more fortunate classmates. By developing a climate of con­fidence for the child they make him want to learn. The child is helped in his e11otional and social development, tt ~reby encouraging self-confidence, self-discipline and self-expression. Parents play a . large part in the program which allows a deeper understanding and a stronger unit to be formed within families. 
There are 17 Head Start centers in the South Bend area and all are 
Anti-abortionists demand 
badly in need of volunteers. Ap­proximately 31 volunteers are needed each day to assist the teacher in the classrooms. 
Other volunteer services include supervision of outdoor activities and field trips; taking part in musical activities, indoor creative play, crafts and storytelling; bringing children to and from the center; assisting in parent education; serving of meals; ser­ving· as librarians working on newsletter staff; serving as photographer and projectionist; acting as case aide to Social Service Worker and talking with the children about everything they do in a way which will help them to learn. 
Students with interests and skills touching on any of these areas are asked to consider spending a few hours a week, from 11:30 a.m. to noon, Monday through Friday, with the community's Head Start program. 
The student volunteers of last
constitutionalamendment sem_ester contributed a grea_t deal 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Anti­abortionists rallied on the icy steps of the Capitol Wednesday and urged Congress to establish a constitutional amendment banning abortion. 
PoliCl' l'stimates of the crowd ranged up to 25,000. 
Carrying rost>s and placards -with slogans such as "Kill inflation, not babies" and "it's not nice to fool with mother nature" -the predominately young demonstrators gathered at the west front of the Capitol to ht•ar congressmen and clergy speak out against abortion. 
St•n. James L. Buckley, R­1\: Y . long-time advocate of anti-ubortion measures, re­l'l'ived the loudest reception from the crowd when he announced he would introduce a constitutional amendment ban­ning ubortion in the Senate Thur!idav. 
"If 1\n;t'riCa is to be the land of thl' free," Buckley told the gathering. ·'American children must be free to be born." 
Wl·dnesday's demonstration marked the two-year anniver­sary of the historic Supreme 

Court decision that struck down 
n•strictive  abortion  laws  in  
many  states.  
SPn.  Jl•sse  Helms,  R-N.C.,  a  

co-sponsor of Buckley's amend­ment. called that Supreme Court decision "a complete n•versal of our moral tradi­tion." 
the observer 

Night Editor -Thomas O'Neil Ass't. Night Editor -Daniel "Boone" Sanchez layout-Maureen 0. Sajbel, Mary Janca, Bob Varettoni, Bob Brink, Martha Fanning, Gregg BerNet Bangs Copy Reader -Ken Girouard Day Editor -Gregg B. Bangs Features -Norm Bower, J. Rober1 Baker, Marlene Zloza Graphics -Marlene Zloza Sports • Mete McHugh Typists • Tom Modglin, Barb Norcross, Jim landis, Neil Viii, Bob Steinmetz (unfortunately) AI layout-Tom Whelan--Hal Compugraphic Operator -Morey Blinder Picture Screener -Albert D'An­tonio Night Controller -M. J. Foley 
of time and effort, accordmg to Lucy McCulloigh of Head Start. "I 
wish  to  thank  all  those  who  
volunteered.  We  greatly  ap­ 
preciate all their work."  

Working hours can be flexible, and students can choose from among the 17 centers located throughout the city, McCulloigh noted. Men and women are needed and orientation sessions will be arranged for all volunteers. 
Any student wishing to volunteer 
should contact Mike Foley, 326 Howard, Phone: 8256, for ad­ditional information. 
"These students will not be hurt by the cutback in jobs. If another job is not immediately available, they will still have the deduction from their tuition, and every effort will be made to find them a new job." stated O'Brien. 
The library is the only depart­ml•nt that has been discontinuing jobs. O'Brien added. 
Currently there are over 1400 campus jobs occupied by students. Included are 720 employed in the service credit program, 620 em­ployed at hourly rated jobs, and 100 houry rated jobs are occupied by those in the work-study program. 
"The t>mployment rate at the university has remained fairly constant.'' stated O'Brien, "but as the t>conomy changes the number 
When assigning jobs to student applicants, certain priorities are observed. A list from the financial aidl' office is used to determine the need of an applicant. 
The priorities are: 1.) financial need; 2. l students in service credit program; and 3. l all others. 
Gary Marmontello, manager of Pmployee rl'lations, food services, commPnted on jobs in food ser­vices. "Many students who had jobs last year remained in them this yPar so there was very little 
turnover."  No  decrease  in  the  
number  of  jobs  is  expected,  he  
noted.  

"No change is anticipated in the ovPrall number of student jobs that will lw available next year versus this Yl'ar." concluded O'Brien. 
The
I 

Culturals Arts Commision presents 
THE AMERICAN JAZZ DANCE REVUE by 
The Gus Giordano DANCE COMPANY 

Olaughlin Auditorium, SMC 
TICKETS ARE $1.50 AT THE DOOR 


campus view A N~W APARTMENT 
COM­

MUNITY DEVELOPED FOR 
THE STUDENTS OF NOTRE DAME & SAINT MARY'S. CAMPUS VIEW IS SET IN A WOODED 
SURROUNDING YET IS ONLY 3 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME. LOCATED JUST ONE BLOCK NORTH OF STATE RD. 23 OFF OF WILLIS RD. 
iC INDOOR SWIMMING POOL 
TO  BE  COMPLETED  IN  FEB  
iC  -BASKETBALL COURT  
iC  SHAG CARPET  

2 BATHS IN 2 BEDROOM APT 
ALL APPLIANCES COLOR COORDINATED SECURITY 
SOUND CONDITIONED 
PRIVACY 
"NOW RENTING FOR SECOND SEMESTER" FOR RENTAL INFORMATION PHONE 272-1441 ( 

-----------------------------------------. 
Thursday, January 23, 1975 the observer 
7 

Students' rights upheld in court 
By JAMES A. KIDNEY 

WASHINGTON  <UPil  - The  
Supreme  Court  ruled  5  to  4  
Wednesday  that  public  school  

students facing suspension have a constitutional right to defend themselves at a hearing with administrators. 
Justice Byron R. White said students have a substantial "property and liberty" interest in attending public schools which requires special protec­t ion under the "due process" claus(' of the 14th Amendment. 
Th(• court affirmed a decision by a three-judge court requir­ing the Columbus, Ohio, public school system to advise a student why he was being suspPnded and offer him a chancP to defend himself. 
Whit(' said these procedures could he delaved until after a suspPnsion ;nly when the misconduct posed "a contin_uing dang(•r to persons or property or an ongoing threat of disrupting the academic pro­t'Pss." 
Tlw decision was hailed as a 

G. Gordon Liddy knocks the press 
DANBURY <UPil -G. Gordon Liddy. brushing asH1e a reporter and his question Wednesday, knockPd thP man to the ground as he surrendered to begin serving a 6 to 20 vear sentence as the architect of th~· 1972 Watergate burglary. 
Liddy made no comment. A camPrama n was jostled, but did not fall. 
The incident occurred when Liddv. minus his beard, arrived at th(• · FPderal Correctional In­stitution accompanied by his lawyer. PPter Maroulis. 
A guard at the main entrance directPd Liddy to a door where prisonPrs are roo tinely admitted for pron•ssing. As he walked to the door. which turned out to be lockPd. thP n('\\'sman blocked his path and asked him a question. 
Liddy's shoulder ea mp in contact w1th th.l' n•portPr. and the man fell. 
\\'a rdPn .John Norton said Liddy wlll go through regular admission and oriPnta tion proceduf(' like any othPr prisoO(•r for the next several days and then be assigned to a prison program. 
liP had been free pending out­comP of his Watergate appeal, which was turned down by the SupremP Court. The 21 months Liddy has already sf'rved is the longPst of any Watergate defen­dant. 
landmark by civil libertarians, who said it established stu­dents' right to defend them­selves against arbitrary decisions by administrators. 
The Children's Defense Fund, Cambridge, Mass., which filed briefs in the case on behalf of nine students who were sus­pended during racial flair-ups in 1971, said the decision should cut down the number of suspensions for minor infrac­tions. 
CDI<' attorney Sandra Levin­son said, "The most important fact by far is that relatively few suspensions come for acts that are violent. Common causes are merely tardiness, walking in the halls or smoking and there is no need to suspend lhP student." 
WhitP said the due process clause "requires, in connection with a suspension of 10 days or less. that the student be given oral or written notice of the charges against him and, if he denies them, an explanation of the evidence the authorities have and an opportunity to present his side of the story." 
Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr., a former member of the Rich­mond, Va., school board, dissented. He was joined by Chief Justice Warren Burger, William H. HPhnquist and Harry A. Blackman. 
"The decision unnecessarily opens a venues for judicial interwntion in the operation of our public schools that may affect adversely the quality of Pducation." Powell said. 
He concluded that brief suspensions are not significant­ly harmful to warrant constitu­tional controls. 
"As it is difficult to think of any less eonsPquential infringe­nwnt than suspension of a junior high school student for a 

LOOKING FOR .. 

HOBBY &CRAFT SUPPLIES?
* 
ENGINEERING PROJECTS

* 
ARKIE & ART ASSIGNMENTS 


* MODEL TRAINS, CARS & PLANES we carry-­
XACTO, DREMEL, ROCKETS, LIONEL & N GUAGE FULL LINE OF PLASTIC KITS & BALSA WOOD HOURS: MWF 9:30-7:30 TThS 9:30-5:30 
343 LINCOLN WAY WEST SOUTH BEN 0 
(3 BLOCKS WEST OF LASALLE HOTEL) 
PHONE 287-0180 

~BBYIAND 
.hobb1es & crafts 
single day, it is equally difficult hearing was unconstitutional. to perceive any principled limit In another financial case, the to the new reach of procedural court unanimously upheld a due process." 
Washington state business and 
The court also ruled 6 to 3 occupation tax on a manufac­WPdnesday that a Georgia law turer with customers there but 
allowing a creditor to freeze a with its factories in other dt>btor's bank account without a states 
I I I• • • BEER SPECIAL I I I • • • this Friday and Saturday* six-pack for $1. 1 1 * half keg for $19.50 HOPS 'N' SPIRITS 812 LaSalle St. Ph. 287-2581  
CLASSIFIED ADS WANTED ~.eed 2 GA UCLA tix. Please call Overseas Jobs Debbie 6746 or Brenda 4276 Australia, Europe, S. America, Africa. Students all professionsDesperately need 3 or 4 UCLA and occupations $700 to $3000 basketball tix. Call Dan 683-5362 monthly. Expenses paid, over time, .sightseeing. Free in­Need 2 UCLA tix. Call Tom 288­formation. 2613 TRANSWORLD RESEARCH CO. Dept. F3 P.0. Box 603, Corte Housemate wanted. Private room Madera, CA 1rnile from campus. Fireplace. $60 per mo. Call 233·2352 SMC & NO: FOR PIZZA DELIVERY, call THE ROMA, 234· Wanted 1 used portable b & w TV. 3258. Monday through SaturdayCall 272 4156 4:30 pm -1:30am. Need 2 or 3 UCLA tickets. Call Joe TONY'S SHOE REPAIR is con. at 289-3751 veniently located on the first floor of Badin Hall. See Tony for all yourDesperately need 1 UCLA tix. Call shoe repair needs. Pat. 8156 Woody Allen is a film star and Responsible students desire to 10 film director. days (March 21 30) tor trip to His movies have never won an Florida. Will pay well. Call Trace academy award 234-1889 -None of his movies have ever made a ten-best list. .His performances have never won FOR SALE any awards of any kind. Woody Allen has recently takenCalculator-Brand new. up the clarinet. Call Mary 7953 Woody Allen Jan. 26 Feb 1 For Sale: Set of skis, poles, and LOST & FOUNDsize 10 boots. Entire set tor $50 or best offer. Also, 6.6 cu. tt. ,efric)erator \approved for dorm Lost silver necklace with diamond use) $85 or best otter. Call Marty chip. If found call 3525 at 289 3751 Lost brown glasses after game (HC) between ACC & BP 289-3408NOTICES Lost: Key ring Sat. in SMC Tunnel8-track tapes don't t throw them or Regina Basement. Reward. Callout when they break. I'll buy or Mary 4537repair them for $1. 5326 Joe Urgently need 1 UCLA tix (student PERSONALS or GAl. Call Britty 1875 Suuzzee Q(K): Anyone interested in bringing Here it is! Your own personal!Bruce Springsteen to campus (That's true Bill) 1t's not as neat as please contact Ace at 1806 your song write ups, but its all a "Piece of my Heart" TICKETS FOR NEXT See you at the Formal,TUESDAY'S RARE EARTH & Junior Birdman PURE FUNK CONCERT AT MORRIS CIVIC ARE NCoW ON Pittsburgh <1ave up Iron City beer SALE AT THE NEW!) and Aaron. What next? STUDENT UNION flCKET The Walsh Table OFFICE. TICKETS ARF $5.50 IN ADVANCE. Waking up to your voice every morning has bee wonderful. HappySMC Sophmore variety show! birthday, Aaron Talent needed & none refused! 207 Walsh Try.outs Sunday -'an. 26th at 2:00 in Regina North Lobby. Prizes for Kerrie, 1st, 2nd, & 3rd places. For Into call For you a deal! 1 won't tell if you5735 or 5274 won't... ·---­------­Happy 21st BirthdaySell us your texts and paperbacks John tor cash or credit. Buying hours from 2:30 · 3:30 daily. Pandoras , Gasp! Mongo and company made Books 602 N. St. Louis or So. Bend it! Will they be drinking thisAve. weekend? (Of Coors they will!) EUROPEAN TRIP Cattood at the Grotto never said LONDON, PARIS, MOSCOW, thanks. LENINGRAD, KIEV, ROME) $910 Merci beaucoup -Walsh May 26 June 11. Prot. Rubulis, Modern Language Dept. Today is Karen's 20th Birthday. Help her celebrate her birthday.HASH BROWN BLUES BAND Send check or money order to: AVAILABLE FOR YOUR DANCE Help Karen Fund OR PARTY. CALL 272c9895 302 Walsh Hall. (evenings) lor information Dear Karen,MONEY? Morrissey Loan will Happy 19 years and 12 months lend up to $150 tor 30 days 1 day Have a wonderful day. We love waiting period. Basement of you.LaFortune Daily 11:15 -12:15 Sheila, Tathleen, and Joan  

8 the observer Thursday, January 23, 1975 
lD Interhall free-for-all
12 perfect • 
by Fred Herbst 
Interhall basketball resumed play this week after the Christmas break. Through Tuesday, 12 of the 52 teams remained undefeated. 
Off-Campus III (4-0) led by Mike Bonifer and Frank Allocco con­tinued its domination of League I by coasting past Alumni II 60-15. 
In League II Sorin I leads the pack with a perfect 3 and 0 record. 
Pangborn and Holy Cross II share the lead in League III, each with 3 wins and no losses. The undisputed leader will be deter­mined in the January 23 showdown ht'lWl'l'n the two teams. 
Lt>ague IV sees Morrissey I (3­
0) on top. the leaders are paced by Jim Hummer. Despite thei.r pt'rfect record, Morrissey I still has to contend with the rapidly improving Dillon III squad. 
Undefeated Howard I (4-Q) \ 

... holds a slim lead over Off-Campus V (3-1) as the two head toward their January 24 meeting. This l'ncounter will greatly affect the race in League V. 
While Keenan 1 and Flanner II have an equal number of victories in League \rl, Flanner.ll has an all important loss on their slate. 
Stanford I and Off-Campus VI are deadlocked for the league in L:.eague VII with perfect record~ 
Rei&ning above League VII IS Cavanaugh II with an unblemished 3-0 mark. 
Grace IV is coasting through League IX as its nearest rival is a distant game and a half off the pace. 

League X is led by an impressive Grace I team. Cavanaugh I is trailing the leaders by a game and could make things interesting before the season ends. 
Sundays action saw Howard II batter Alumni I 68-53, Keenan III setback Flanner V 39-34, Off­Campus V handle Off-Campus VI 48-41, Dillon II edge Morrissey III 59-58, Off -Campus II roll by Morrissey II 58-35, Pangborn II beat Holy Cross 145-33. Cavanaugh 
1 knock off Off-Campus IX 5Q-39, 
Howard 1defeat Fisher I 53-44, Off­
Campus III thrash Alumni II 60-15, 
Grace I put down Stanford III 58­
43, St. Ed's I pin Flanner I 61-48 
and Grace IV get by Stanford II 49­
38. 
Tuesday, Off-Campus VI beat 
Flanner III 63-46, Grace II edged 
Zahm III 49-45, Flanner II got by 
Grace V 49-42, Zahm II set down St. 
Ed's II 47-41, Grace II rolled over 
Keenan II 75-42, Cavanaugh II and Dillon IV won on forfeits, Grace IV beat Off-Campus VIII 56-51, St. Ed's I set down Stanford II 48-35, Holy Cross II put down Off­Campus I54-32 and in the evenings 
top game Dillon III upset Off­Campus IV 45-44 in overtime. 
Dillon III rallied in the second half to overcome a large Off­Campus IV advantae:e. 
Leading the comeba~!tfor Dillon III were Jim Guthrie, Steve O'Connell, Vince Lang and Jeff Thompson. In the end it was the heads-up play of Thompson that proved to be the difference. 


Shu.mate returns for UCLA rally tonight 
anticipation of their arrival, Notre
Though they won't be carrying Dame coach Digger Phelps' co­an 88 win streak, an undefeated captains Pete Crotty, Dwight Clay, season, or "peanut butter sand­and special guest John Shumatewich" Bill Walton, the UCLA will highlight an "Upend theBruins invade the ACC this Bruins" pep rally Thursday night Saturday big and bad as ever. In 

.at 7:00p.m. in the auxiliary gym of the ACC. 
Thompson led all scorers with 15 points including the winning bucket at the buzzer. 
Interhall organizer Jim Am­brose noted that the outstanding teams at this point of the season appear to be Off-Campus III, Keenan I, Pangborn I, Stanford I and Grace I. 
Play continues in the ten leagues through February 6 with the playoffs to follow. 

The Irish, who lost to UCLA 85-72 December 21 in Los Angeles, hope to start the weekend off properly with the return of Shumate, last year's All-American captain and
The Irish Eye 
giant-killer. Presently recovering from a blood clot and doing color 
OBSERVER 
commentary for the Phoenix Suns, Shumate called Phelps last. night and promised, "I'll definitely be there. And I perform best in front 

SPORTS 
of large crowds."

A week from today Notre Dame's basketball team opens its 1975 
schedule with an away game against the Spartans of Michigan State. This should come as quite a surprise to Digger Phelps who'll swear that Wrestlers fall 

his squad has been in action for the better part of two months. But the "other" Irish basketball team is the women's version and this will be their first year of competition. 
Swi.mrners sink Oak­
The women's basketball team attained club status this year mainly through the efforts of Sally ~~ith and Mary Cl~mency l~st spring. Both girls corresponded with Dommie (Nappy) Napohtano durmg the summer and managed to get things partly organized. This fall Clemency "found" 
land 63-50 on relay
graduate student Jeanne Earley to coach and Nappy managed to get the 
team $700. .by Ernie Torriero 
"As far as cooperation from the Athletic Department is concerned The Notre Dame swim team they've all been great to us," said Earley, who received her un­defeated Oakland University of dergraduate degree in Physical Education from Indiana University. Rochester,, Mi. in a dual meet held "Rich O'Leary <Director of Club Sports) has just been super. They've at the Rockne Memorial Pool last helped us very much." night, 63-50. The meet was a 
closely contested one, with the 
"We've tried to help the women as far as getting equipment, setting up final relay determining the winner. 
times they could use the main arena, and any organizational advice they The undefeated Irish, 4-0, burst 
may need," said O'Leary. "I think it's a real good thing for all the women out of the starting blocks in win­
involved." ning the first event, the 400 Yard 
Medley Relay, in a record settingThere are fifteen girls on the women's team, enough for a varsity and time of 3:42.2. Bob Thompsonjunior varsity squad. "Sixty girls tried out for the team," added Earley, swam a record first leg (0:57.3) in "and we'd have liked to take more. But with our budget we decided that pacing the Irish to victory in that we ought to limit the number to fifteen." 
event. Quickly Notre Dame found itself in the lead, 7-0.
The women open at State and then play the University of Toledo on The Irish stretched the lead to 31­February 1 cross-road rivals St. Mary's on Feb. 6, Ball State on Feb. 8, 21 by virtue of the fine diving of Joeand Kalam~zoo ou· Feb. 13 before travelling to Louis University in lllinois Caverly. Caverly posted excellentFeb. 15 and Lorain County College in Ohio on Feb. 20. The girls close their scores in all three of his dives onseason with a rematch a~ainst St. Mary's on Feb. 22. 
his way to totaling 225 points. 
"I did most of the scheduling myself;" said Earley. "I just kept writing But Oakland hung tough and different schools over the summer. It was kind of difficult at first since after the 200 Yard Breaststroke the most of the schools already had their schedules made ~P· Next ye~r I Pioneers led, 49-48. But the clutch hope to get the team into the regional tournament, but right now, thmgs diving of Bob Ebel, who scored a are turning out a lot better than I had expected." meet record of 264.30 points in the 
The girls practice five days a week on the Co_nvo floor afte~ Digger's Three Meter Diving, put the Irish up top, 56-50. 
The stage was now set for the dramatic final event, the seven point 400-Yard Freestyle Relay. The team that captured this event would also claim the meet. The relay· was close until the final leg. It was here that Notre Dame captain Jim Kane, with a sen­sational swimming performance, sealed the victory as Notre Dame set a Rockne Pool record with a time of 3: 16.1. 
In all, five Rockne Pool records were broken, four of which were by the Irish. In addition to the three relay records, Notre Dame's Bob Wardell set a record in the 2oo­Yard Breaststroke (2:19) and Oakland's All-American Paul Karas was a record breaker in the 200-Yard Freestyle with a time of 1:45.5. 
Coach Dennis Stark takes his 
undefeated tankers to Peoria, Ill. 
to face Bradley University this 
Saturday at 4:00p.m. 

squad is finished and although most of the g1rls p~a.yed h•.gh ~chool basketball none has ever experienced college competition which, m the 
Women's swimming set 
midwest, is high-calibre. . 
"Everybody's pretty excited about it," said Clemency, who along With An organized group of Notre addition, the Rockne Memorial sophomore Patty Coogan captains the team. "I think that there's enough Dame women interested in will be open towomenswimmers on enthusiasm so that it'll continue." swimming met for the first time Tuesday and Thursday mornings 
The enthusiasm could very well generate to the 10,000 or so fans who Monday night, January 20th in the from 8 to 9. regularly pack the ACC to ~atch Digger's var~ity. The women's first Rockne memorial. Astrid Hotvedt, physical home game is scheduled for ~1ght before th~ Xav1~r contest,and the Feb. Twenty-seven women attended education instructor and coacn ror 8 meeting with Ball State IS slated for 1mmed1ately after the South the meeting and expressed interest the group, hopes to have Notre 
Carolina game. in competitive speed swimming, Dame representatives in some 
"I think things are moving pretty fast with girls sports," added Earley. synchronized swimming, and women's swim meets, but said "I'm pretty pleased with it." diving. Others came just for the final details on this are not "Here at Notre Dame they've given us the same treatment as they enjoyment and exercise. available. 
would give a guy's club sport. They've made us a club sport until we can Regular coached lessons will be All interest groups are still prove that the interest is there. That's more than fair since that's the way held every Monday and Wed­welcome and can contact Hotvedt it is with the guys." nesday evening from 7 to 8, except at the weekly meetings or by
And who knows, someday they might even upset UCLA. 
for days of men's swim meets. In calling her at 6222. 
to Montclair 
by Rich Odioso 

A Notre Dame comeback bid fell short as highly-regarded Montclair State <N.J.) turned back the Irish wrestlers Tuesday night in the ACC's Auxiliary Gym 19-11. 
Montclair State jumped on top 9­0 scoring decisions in the first three matches. Notre Dame got on the board as freshman Pat McKillen at 142 stayed unbeaten in dual matches with a 4-3 win over the Indians enraged Kevin Welter. The frustrated Welter cost his team a penalty point by throwing his headgear at the end of his match. The Irish therefore cut the gap to 8-{i when Dave Boyer scored a heady 3-1 win over Greg DiGioacchino. Notre Dame remained two down when stringy Mike Padden and the Indians Bob Woods battled to an interesting 3-3 draw. 
The 167 match proved to be the evening's key match as NO's Mike Kemp took on Montclair's national title aspirant Dante Caprio. The match was tied with a minute left when Caprio socred a decisive takedown. A riding time point gave Caprio the match 7-{i despite a penalty point and an escape by the agressive Kemp in the final ten seconds. 
After Bob Dreger lost at 177, Joe Pszeracki, looking better with every match, scored his first win of the season 4-2 over Jeff Josstema. With Notre Dame trailing 16-11, Irish-heavyweight Ken Dike needed a pin for a team win but squat Steve Caldwell maintained control throughout in scoring a 3-1 victory. 
The Irish now 4-2 travel to Philadelphia Saturday for a quadrangular with Temple, Penn and Kentucky before returning to the A.C.C. next Wednesday af­ternoon for a triangular with Valparaiso and Evensville. 





