House, Senate approve 327 mil. Vietnam aid bill 
\\'.\Sill :-.;(;To!': UPI -House and Senate conferees Thursday approved a $327 million Vietnam aid bill which carefully limits l'n•sident Ford's authority to use troops for evacuation purposes. 
Ht>aching a swift compromise on what may be America's last \'it>tnam wartime expenditure, the conferees approved the larger aid sum $327 million. granted by the original House bill but also kt>pl the troop authority restrictions spelled out in the Senate bill. 
SPn. John Sparkman. D-Ala., chairman of the Senate Foreign HPlations Committee. said the conferees had reached agreement on what the bill will contain and had ordered congressional staffs to draw up the final language. 
Final dntft read~· Friday 
Sparkman said that final draft would be ready for formal ap­proval by the conferees Friday morning. It then goes to the full House and Smale, where approval is expected, and then to Ford 
for his signature. "\\'p have decided to make $;50 million in new money 
available for humanitarian purposes and $177 million in funds already auuthorized but not yet appropriated to finance Pvacuation plans and humanitarian aid," Sparkman said. 
St•n. .Jacob Javits. R-N.Y., said the conferees had retained the tougher S1•nate restrictions on the use of U.S. armed forces for 
•t•vacuation purposes. 
This included .•Javits said, the Senate requirements that U.S. troops cah help evacuate Vietnamese only incidental to the rescue of AmPricans and only in areas where Americans were being t•vacuated. The House bill put no such strict and definite restric­tions on Ford's authority to use the troops. 
"\\'P havt> retained the essential authority of the War Powers :\('t ....lavits said in a refert>nce to the 1973 law which forbids any l'n•sidt>nt from using U.S. military forct>s in Southeast Asia without congressional permission. 
'I radt•-nfr hi'! WI' I'll llousl' and St•nall• 
Sparkman confirmPd tht> compromise t>ssentially was a trade off of thl' House monl'y provision for the Senate's troop restrictions. "I lwlirw that is a fair explanation of what we have done," he 
"a1d. 
HPp. \\'ayne !lays. Jl Ohio, said. "We have reached a general agrPPmPnt on the amouunt of money and the objectives of getting pPople out and providing humanitarian aid." 
But l'VI'n as Congress moved to provide Ford some of the humamtarian aid and l'varuation powers he has requested, Hays mdieatPd Ford's still-pPnding rPqut•st for military aid had little l'hanl'e. 
"Tht• military situation is so far gone that nobody's going to worry about that." he said. 
l'asst•ll \1 ith a ft'\\ boos 
Th1• two. houses passed their separate aid bills in debate marked hy hitternt>ss. anger. t·onfusion and even a few boos, hut Hays said thl' confl'rel's reconciled the two bills without serious trouble 
"It was as l:'asy-going. low key and amicable as I've ever seen," tw said. 
Tht> original SPnate bill. passed 75 to 17 Wednesday, authorize<!._ $250 million in total aid, with $150 earmarked for .humanitarian purposes and $100 million for evacuation costs. It strictly limited 
l''ord's authonty to use the troops in any evacuation operation. 
Thl:' House bill, passed early Thursday morning by 230 to 187 auuthorized $327 million for humanitarian and pvacuatwn ex­penses and out fewer restrictions on Ford's evacuation authority. 
Sen. Hugh Scott, R-Pa., said the conferees accepted the Houuse provision forbidding any of the humanitarian aid to get to North Vil:'tnam or the Viet Cong. 
lll't'idt• against l':-.; handling runds Sparkman said the conferees also decided against having the United Nations handle distribution fo the 'tunds a Senate suggt>stion, but would allow the money to be channeled by a specialized U.N. agency such as UNESCO. "We came very close to complete agreement," Sparkman said. ·~we will meet at 11 a.m. tomorrow Friday tol·onfl:'ron what we did today. We have asked the staff to. suggest . language for the hill. ''I'm eonfidl:'nt that at 11 a.m. tomorrow we will have complete agrepment" ,\ possihlP obstacle to Ford's getting the final bill as quickly as he would likl:' is thl:' fact that the House will not be in session Friday. ( 'ongressional sourel:'s said therefore that the House might not be ahlt> to vote on thl:' final compromise bill before Tul:'sday at thl:' Parlil:'sl. Thl:' sl:'natl:' ml:'ets Friday and no delays were I:'Xpected thPrl'. 
( 'nlli(I'I'SS must paSS £ollow-up 
In addition. Congress must also pass.follow-up legislation ac­tually appropriating the money authorized by the new aid bill. 
"Thl' Prl'sident obviously considers this an urgent matter," said Bt•p. William S. Broomfield, R-Mich, after he had been in touch with thl:' White House. "The White House obviously would be dt'lightt>d if we rl:'ached quick agreeml:'nt and voted on this matter tonight. I think it could be done." 
As the confprees met, Congressional sources said these were soml:' of thl:' key issues to be resolved: 
Tht' Senatl:' bill spellt'd out restrictions on the use of American troops for Pvacuation purposes, saying they may help l:'vacuate Vil:'tnamt>sl:' only incidental to the rescue of Americans and only whl:'rl:' Americans are being aided. The Housl:' required only that a minimum numbl:'r of troops and the least possible degree of force bt> ust'd to evacuate Vietnamese. 
I 


THE MARATHON of hoops in the Notre Dame Basketball Marathon for muscular dystrophy will continue throughout Wednesday, April 30. Basketball play on Saturday will be highlighted with the appearance of The Observer team. They are scheduled to match with the lowly Student Government squad (Photo by Tom Lose). 111-..llmiHIIIIIIIUIHDHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUUIIHRI I w•IIIUDIIIIHI-IIIII-----IUIIIIUIIHIIIIIIIIIII 
Students in Japan program 
Threatened W"ith expulsion 
hy Hob !\ladt>r 
Starr Hl'porter 
Thn•p Notrl:' Dame students in the Foreign Sf ud~· Program in Japan have sent a Jetter to tht> Ohst•nt·•· stating thaJ Univer~ity ad­ministrators havl:' thi'e~ttl:'iwd ·them with Pxpulsion from tht> University if they with­drt•w from the .Japan program. 
Till' threl' studl:'nts. Paul Makielski. Patrick Flah1•rtv and Kristan Thorsen. all sophomt;rl's. sPnf a ll'tter to the Obst>rvt>r Pclitors. diri'CtPd "to all vou future Year-in­.lapan studPnts." Tht' thr~ wish to leave the program lwforl:' lht> t'nd of thl'. school year hJ•caust' th1•y daim Sohpia University, with which :"Jotre DamP is affiliated, is "not...up to acadPmic standards." 
"lnugh it nut" 
Dr. Balph ThorsE:'n. profl:'ssor of biology and 
falht'r of onE:' of thl' studl'nts, said that he had 
told his daughter to "tough it out." However, 
Thorst'n said that aftf'r receiving his 
daughter's latt'st letter. hE:' wisht'd he had 
allowPd hPr to rl'turn. "I love the Orient," he 
said. "and I'm dismayE:'d by my daughter's 
lt>tiPrs." From his knowJpdge about the 
program. Thorst'n commented. "I think the 
program is !wing administerro abysmally." 
Fr. Lawn•ncl' BroPstl. dirt>etor of the 
Fort>ign Study Program. said that no major 
complaints havE:' come to his attention and 
that "acadE:'mics. in gPneral. art' very, very 
good." Broestl commented that one professor 
was hirPd on short notice for the second 
st•mt•stPr of thP program who has not proven 
satisfactory. Ill' dl'nil'd the students' con­
ft>ntion that tht' program is wPak 
acadt•mically. saying. "They're trying to 
makP a blankl:'.t rondE:'mnation based on one 
l'oursP. I think thl:'y are looking for an excuse 
to t•xont'rate thl:'msE:'!VI:'S." 
'Withdraw'. not I'X pi'II 
I>Pan Frt'dl'rick Crosson of the College of :\rts and Lt'tters confirmPd that the studl:'nts had tt>lt·phont'd him from Japan concerning withdrawal from the program. He said that hP informt>d tht' three that withdrawal from tht• .Japan program was the same as with­drawing from Notrl:' DamE>. If they withdrew, thPy would havl:' to rP-apply for admission hal'k into thE> University. "I don't think ex­pulsion is thE' corrt>et word to use." Crosson 
Crosson pointed out that the students had signt'd a one-year contract to spend the year abroad. Arrangl'ments are made with Sophia l 'niversity in Tokyo to provide profE:'ssors and housing for all Aml:'rican students from different universities. including Notre Dame, and tht> llniversity has an obligation to fulfill tht'ir contract with Sophia. "If students could pull out of thl' program whenevE:'r they wantt>d, our oversE:'as program would be in a shamhlt•s." thE:' dl'an said. 
:\Ia.\ \1 ithdnm at l'nd 
Crosson said students may withdraw from thP program at thl:' t>nd of the semt'ster. or for spt•cial rt>asons such as hl:'alth or inability to adjust dul' to poor linguistic ability. 
Crosson statl'd he took the students' t·omplaints with a "grain of salt," fl:'eling that tht•y would havt' dropped out of the program aft1•r thl' first semestl'r if they found it un­satisfactory. "After right months. I think !'ither thry just want to travel or are tired of 1ht• Orient." hr commt'nted. 
Tht' studl:'nts said in their letter that they do not wish to slight their hosts. "as the .Japam•se are a gracious pt'oplt'." They also said they do not wish to discourage anyone from participating in thE> program. 
SnJihia: not t•ducational 
ThP three wish to withdraw from the program ht•l·ausE> they say "wt> cannot find it in our truly altruistic hrarts to labl:'l Sophia an Pdurational institution." Thl:'y said in one art course they wt•re ·•compelled to memorize ovt•r 100 dictated JapanE-SE' terms. including om• thirtv-two lE-tter word and the name of Buddha·~ undE>rwPar. •· They further claimed that one professor was unable to explain a probl1•m to a student because he "found his pupil to hP 'too logical'." 'They also stated in thP lt•tlpr that one sociology professor gives 
"true and falsE>" tl:'sts in which evl:'ry answE-r is invariably true. 
Assistant to thE> Provost Dr. William Burke. who is mvolvE>d on thE> Forrign Stuudit>s Program. said thl:' only problem with the .Iapan program is not mough stuudl:'nts go to .Japan us t·ompart'd to Europl'. HI:' termt'd the .Japan program "a great program." \\'hen askl:'d if any studl:'nts havE> complaint'd about the academic standards of Sophia I'niversity. Burkl:' rE>pliro. "I'd be sur­
IRIIIIII__________________________
-;aid. prised." 
The Observer will stop regular publication on April 30. ·For the first time, the Observer will publish during the summer months beginning June 12. 


the observer 
warld briefs 
WASHINGTON (UPI) · The Federal Aviation Ad­ministration has halted all civilian U.S. aircraft flights to Sout'h Vietnam and Cambodia on grounds of safety, it was disclosed Thursday. 
, 
BANGKOK (UPI) -Thai: frontier guards fired warning shots in the air Thursday in I response to Khmer Rouge 1 troops shooting at a Thai reconnaisance plane along the tense Thai-Cambodian border. 
NEW YORK (UPI) · A gangland-style slaying, bogus warranty claims and an un­dercover investigation by General Motors figured in a recent series of dismissals by the giant auto company, The Wall Street Journal said Thursday. 
GM's investigation, called "Motorgate" by one fired employee, was launched after the killing of Francis Smith, a service manager working out of the Boston office of GM's Chevrolet division. 
MADRID (UPI) -Police in the restive Basque region, looking for the killers of a policeman, shot and killed a political suspect Thursday in San Sebastian, the national news agency Cifra said. 
Wounded in the gunbattle in the northern city of San Sebastian were a policeman and one of Spain's most sought after Basque separatists, Miguel Goiburu. 
WASHINGTON !UPI) . The Senate voted Thursday to offer government loans to homeowners facing foreclosure and to provide mortgage subsidies to help thousands of families buy homes. 
an campus today 
3:30 pm ·• lecture, "kant's transcendental deduction," by dr. k. ameriks, 104 o'shag. 5 pm --vespers, log chapel. 5 pm .. mass 9 dinner, bulla sheed 6& 9:30 pm •• film, "dr. zhlvago", $1.25, carroll hall, madeleva, smc 7 ,9, 11 pm .• film, "the big ' sleep", $1, eng. audt. 6-12 pm--dance marathon, 25 cents, Iafortune ballroom a pm .. drama, "man of laMancha", ga-$2.50, students­$2 o'laughlin audt, smc. 9 pm -1 am ..: semi-formal benefit dance, $5 per couple, stepan center. 10 pm -1 am --smc coffeehouse 
10. t. mchale, ll-g. coleman, 12 -f. martin. 
SATURDAY, April 26 
4:30 pm .. vespers,log chapel.! 7 pm .. concert, "the sounds of nashville" $6.50, $5.50, ~.50, 
ace. 
I 
7 pm-1 am·· dance marathon, I 25 cents Iafortune ballroom.7,9,11 pm--film, "the· maltese falcon" $1, eng. audt.l a pm .• talk, dick gregory, 501 
cents, stepan center. : 
8 pm --drama "man of 
lamancha", ga-$2.50, students ­
$2, o'laughlin audt, smc. 
sunday, 
April 27 
1pm .. bike ride, logan center. 2 pm •• stage play, "vaudeville memories" little theatre, moreau smc. 
4:30 pm •· vespers, evensong, 
log chapel. 6:30pm-· "something beautiful for tad", tree, lib audl. 
6:30 9, 11 :30 pm.. film, "the 
Friday, April 25, 1975 
'Motorgate Affair.'1 

remains 
DETROIT <UPI> -· General Motors, the world's largest auto company, has no intention of lifting the secrecy surrounding the firings of more than 25 salaried workers just before Christmas. 
The firings stemmed from what nne dismissedt-mployeedubbed the ·'Motorgate Affair," an in­vesligation of fraudulent warranty claims which began with the gangland-style slaying of a Boston area Chevrolet service manager. 
GM insists its secret in­vestigation, firings and alleged discovery of thousands of dollars in dealer warranty overcharges "are not public matters." 
Most of the firings occurred in the Chevrolet Division zone office at Bethpage, N.Y., where the zone staff office was virtually t-liminated. 
Gl\1 Executive Vice President F. 
.lamPs McDonald said Thursday 
he would have few comments on 
the matter. 
"Our relationships between 
ourselves and our employes are 
not public matters," McDonald said. "Many of the dismissed workers violated company policies, but I won't discuss in­dividuals." 
ThP Wall Street Journal said the "Motorgate Affair" was sparked by an investigation that followed the slaying of Francis Smith, a NPw England service manager. 
It allegedly turned up thousands of dollars in fraudulent warranty daims by a Boston area Chevrolet dPalPr and the acceptance of gifts in exchange for favors by Chevrolet Pmployes in the Beth­pagE:' office. 
Nuclear 1 bomb 
exploded under 
Nevada desert 
YUCCA FLATS, Nev. <UPI> -·A nuclear bomb, apparently a small ,onP. was exploded beneath the NPvada desert Thursday, the fourth publicly acknowledged underground atomic test this year. 
The federal Energy Research and DPvelopment Agency, suc­cessor to the defunct Atomic Energy Commission, said no radiation leaked to the atmosphere from the blast 1,400 feet J.m­derground at the Nuclear Test Site. 
ThP explosive was a "weapons 
rPlated" device code named 
''Edamn," a spokesman said. 
A·s usual, the spokesman would not rPvPal the power of the ex­plosive, saying only that it fell within the broad range of 20 to 200 kilotons, the standard federal dt'scription of virtually all nuclear t>xplosions. giving a maximum force equal to detonation of 200 tons of TNT. 
However, he said the blast may have causPd "a very slight earth motion" in towns within 50 miles but was not powerful enough to be felt in Las Vegas, 90 miles to the south. 
Moderate sized tests cause noticeablE:' swaying motions atop high rise buildings there. 
It was the 269th publicly acknowledgPd nuclear test by the United States since the treaty with Russia banning testing in the at­mospherE:' was signed 12 years ago. 
Part Time ·Job 
available for, summer at The Distillery and Red 
Door Liquor Store. Applicants must be 21. 
caine mutiny", $1 eng. audt .• 
Ap91Y in person at The 
a:15 pm --concert, troll'bnne & . 
01, 'illery Liquor Store, 
plano, j. hlckner. & fram ian-~. I 1723 South Bend zlngeer ol innsbn;k, .fr~ 1lh.~ 
audt. . .. ~~,·t:n~·~--~~e 272-9800_. 
_ _.~.......~..J,..~· ~~-,.. t ... ~ ..... 
1 
'· ~ • . • ' 1 .. • . , ! 

secret 
McDonald Thursday said the story reported in the Wall Street Journal was "reasonably ac­l'urate." 
Smith, whose job included ehecking warranty claims, was killed and his body was found floating in a river north of Boston with a bullet in the back of the head. 
(;eneral Motors confirmed lhat on the day he was killed Smith had visited Butler Chevrolet, Inc., at Lowell. Mass., one of the largest Chevy dealers in the New England area, the Journal reported. The newspaper said investigators later found more than $33,000 in warranty claims at the dealership that could not be substantiated. 
Inmates rebel in Joliet cen 
JOLIET, ILL. <UPI) -More 
than 200 inmates took over a cell block at the Joliet Correctional Center Tuesday
and seized 10 hostages. One 1 .----­convict was found dead, his 1 . 
~~r;r~ w~:s~j~~ed~nd a prison I THIS, SUNDAY NIGHT (APR. 27 rIS 
State police in full battle gear IN.D. & S.M.C. NIGHT AT SHULA'S moved into the prison and aided guards in isolating about INo covER CHARGE WITH THISA 75 holdout rebels in one gallery 
I

of the cell block. The police and 
I

guards took over the remainder 
I I
of the block and a state 
I

corrections department spokes­I 
I

man said two of the hostages I were freed. I I 
Officials said scores of the I I rebellious convicts surrendered I I and were moved out of the cell I I block to other parts of the 
I I 
prison, which contains 719 
I I 
inmates. 
I I 

Six good reasons to store your extra goods at The Morningside: 
1. 
SENSIBLE: why lug or ship school items back and forth for the Fall. 

2. 
ECONOMICAL: rent as much space as you need. Much cheaper and better than other local storage mPthods-you do the handling and packing. Pay now and get lhP days in May frPe. EntirE:' rooms $15· per month, partiels $5-& $10-. 


· 3. SAFE: t•ach room is protPcted by its own key wh.ich is left at the desk and only issupd with proper identification. Hotel entry is supervised 24 hours a day. 
4. EASY: 
bring itt.>ms at your convenience day or night. No mixups or fuss. you'rp finishPd using snmething bring it and rPpeat as you see fit. 
S. FLEXIBLE:. ­dry !'!Panin-~ is available by Ziker Cleaners, the area's finest. Leave garmmts at the Hotd desk. 
6. CONVENIENT: Downtown at Colfax and Williams St. (2 blocks west of the Colfax 


PlAYLAND GOLF CENTER 
9 HOLE • P~ 3 GOlfCOORSE Orl¥ing-~ango J8 Holo Miniature 
LCCATED US 33 AT IRONWOIOO 
.;. 
Cavalier· Camera 
SCOTTSDALE MALL SOUTH BEND 
and 
U.S. 31, NILES, MICH. 
OLYMPUS Niles store: OM-1 MD $ f 1.8 lens 
SYSTEM 
279oo B d 
~~~;;;;;i~~liiiiihiiiiiiMiii;;jiiiiiiiiiiiii.;C~h~r~oiiimiiie;.;~Oiji~Yi.! 

ThPatPrl. 
Phone 233-7191 the
' Morningside Hotel and ask forlinformation 
Bring books, typewriters, chairs, apparel, TV's, rugs, misc., and 
remember items r!~eding cleaning 
will be handled b·yo ~IKER CLEANERS., 
...___________.-.....i,;;,....;.._______ 
' ~ ~ > • • 


a ; 
Friday, April 25, 1975 

3
the observer 
•

UMOC ralses $1200 for charity 
. 
~----~--------------------­
Vietnam President confersl STILL HUNTING FOR AN I 
::~~":~~~~~ ~~~~~~,~~,::,, !APARTMENT FOR NEXT YEAR ?i 
r 
Close to $1200 was raised in the Ugliest Man on Campus contest during the An Tostal weekend. The contest was held by Alpha Phi Omega to raise money for the benefit of the Sr. Marita Day School. 
The fantastic response and enthusiasm led to a great contest in which everybody had a good time. Votes were collected directly at the Dining Hall doors. Students attempted to mock their roommates, friends, teachers, and administrators by voting fo them and having their name put on the list. 
The rules of the contest stated that students could cast a penny a vote for whomever they wanted. 
On Thursday and Friday, the voting was sparse. However, by Saturday night Beppo Guido was leading the pack, followed closely by Mike Sazdanoff and Digger Dziemianowicz. The ballot boxes were then moved from the dining halls to the Irish Wake, where the contributions were quite heavy for the top three candidates. 
At one point Digger's supporters cast one hundred and thirty dollars worth of votes, while Beppo's men stuffed the ballox box with ninety dollars. Never one to give up, Mike Sazdanoff and Company rushed up to the judges with a trash can which contained over five thousand pennies and enough silver coins to toal $148.55. 
For next year the UMOC com­
mittee is considering instituting a 
Mike Sazdanoff Memorial Trash 
Can Award for the candidate who 
has the largest contribution at one 
time. 
The excitement continued to 
build as the voting went on at the 
Irish Wake. Finally at about 12:15 
the tallying of the votes was 
completed and the money had been 
counted. The chairman of the 
UMOC committee Dan Mayo was 
introduced by Bob Quackenbush. 
-~:~~~v ~~~h t1~~o~~ba~~~~~~reo~ 
Franl:t'. which maintains di­
~;~cr·::!lcno1~e~n w~~ti~~~~ ~f/;~~
to form a government to rwgotiate with the Communists. Outside Saigon the Viet Cong
and North Vietnamese armies halted their advance. apparent­lv awaiting the outcome of the 
1;olitical crisis in the South
\'ietnam<>se capital.Tht> mPeting at the presiden-
Mayo announced to the large crowd at Stepan Center that the results of the 1975 Ugly Man on Campus contest were compiled. He proceeded to call the top ten ugly men up to the stage. Beginning with 19th place winner the audience cheered as their favorite candidates made their appearance. 
At this time an announcement was made that instead of just the first place plaque, the UMOC committee had decided that the top three had _such great campaigns, · that each \\'Ould get a plaque. 
For the second year in a .row, Mike Sazdanoff received over­whelming support, and once again was elected the Ugliest Man. 
Alpha Phi Omega will run UMOC again next year and encourages students to save their pennies. 
a complete list will be posted later in the huddle 
SUPER LOW $$$ BEER PRICES ! 10% DISCOUNT ON A CASE OF LIQUOR-WINE 
Phone 234-0088 
1357 N. IRONWOOD 
_ 

II II  CAMPUS VIEW ONE AN. D TWO I BEDROOM FURNISHED APARTMENTS !I .  
~  LOOK WHAT WE  
IJ  HAVE TO OFFER•.  II  
I  I  
~ 1 II I I I  * 2 T1~~~!~.~5Ql!u~~l1* INDOOR SWIMMING POOL 1* C?co~~~~~~~!:~.~.~~~ ~~~n~l~achlnel I* DEAD-SOLT LOCKS I* EXCELLENT SECURITY I* BASKETBALL COURT * SHAG CARPETING I* 2 BATHS IN THE 2 -BEDROOM * DISHWASHERS I 

I * :::·0 CONDITIONED * PRIVACY I I ,... REGULAR SOCIAL ACTIVITIES * LAUNDRY FACILITIES I I -~ NOW RENTING FOR SUMMER AND FALL SEMESTER I I ('75 -'76 SCHOOL YEAR) I FOR RENTAL INFORMATION CALL 272·14-1 
1
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 1 
FIRST PLACE--MIKE SAZ­DANOFF--30437 votes ($304.37) 
2. 
Digger Dziemianowic21 24652 votes: . 

3. 
Beppo Guido 23276 

4. 
Doug Kenyon 8053 votes 

5. 
Steve Keller 7186 votes 

6. 
Muldune Mulherin 4831 votes 

7. 
Dr. Ray Powell 4523 votes 

8. 
John Ennis 4330 votes 

9. 
Jim Augustine 3828 votes 

10. 
Pat Coleman 3020 votes 


THE SECOND Ugliest Man on Campus, Digger Dziemianowicz (right), received a plaque as did third Ugliest Man on Campus, 
Beppo Guido Cleft). Mike Saz­danoff, the Ugliest Man on Cam­pus, was not available for photo. (Photos by Chris Smith) 

~Lr:~e M::~rm~n. e~~oy.ord~~~
governmt>nt spokesman said. 
:.:~ara~~p~~nt~~~~ ~~ai:~~ T7h2~ 
yPar-old Huong's schedule Thursday was with U.S. Am­hassador Graham Martin. 
Earlier Thursday, Huong's negotiations aimed at forming a 
new government appeared to
hog down in bickering amonguoliticians. 

~~ 
MOtHERS In two Special intimate perlatmonc:n celebroting the comin; of MOTHERS DAY . . . Doing the entire "'-' "-MIYM 
FRIDAY, lAY 9th •~~~~ MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
AU SUrs IOfiVfD $5.50 ADVANCE $6.50 DAY OF SHOW 
ATAUD.'~:r:,::::~'f:~~!osP.M. 

~===~~ 
·~~~~~~~~~~~·------------·--~·--·-------------­
~ 

the observer FridaY.• April. 25, 1915 
Kennerly:/ Man with a camera 
by Tt>rry j{t>eney 
Editor-in-Chief 
abserver insir:~ht:
When Air Force One touches 
down at airports across the country, the same scene invariably ensues. A bearded young man with 
"Publicity has some ad­vanlages," Kennerly admits.
two cameras slung around his neck 
''People kJJOW who you are and
is the first to emerge from the 
that cuts through a lot of red tape."
cabin. He walks down the plane 
But Kennerly prefers to remain
stairs and turns his camera to 
in the background and give his
record the first glimpse of the !'resident as he embarks on boss the publicity. "The one thing I don't want is to have so much
another out~f-town appearance. Tht> man with the camera is 
publicity that it would interfere llavid Kennerly, President Ford's 
with what I do," he says. personal photographer. Ken­KPnnerly has been featured in nt-rly's job is to photograph the national news magazines and l'rt-sident on all presidential trips, newspapers. His new-found role as including his recent appearance at newsmaker was highlighted by his Notre Dame. Kt-nnerly records the trip in early April to Indochina. trip from start to finish ... and the Kennerly, having requested Ford's trip begins with the appearance of permission to accompany Army 
thP President at the top of the Chief of Staff General Weyland on 
airline stairs. an inspection of Vietnam. recorded 
the flight of the refugees in the face 
AI one time Kennerly cut such an 
of the Communist onslaught.
incongruous figure when he 
In getting close to the action, 
KENNERLY HAS won the Pulitzer
!'merged from Air Force One that 
KPnnerly's helicopter was shot at 
Prize for his war photography.

he once was stopped by airport 
and nearly downed. 
(Photo by Chris Smith)

security as an intruder. 
Yet Kennerlv is no stranger to
believe access the President has provided
"People don't some war, !'specially the Vietnam con­
him. "If you don't have the access, 

bearded dude photographer is with 
flict. Kennerly, now 29, was a full­
the President," Kennerly explains. you can't get the pictures," he
time photographer in Vietnam at 
explains.

Since that time David Kennerly 
age 24. He won the Pulitzer Prize 
Bt>cause of the access he
has not had to worry about not 
for his war photography the 
receives. Kennerly is very close to

being recognized. He has suddenly 
followin~ year. 

the Pntire Ford family. He has 
national celebrity: as a Kt>nnerly's career began when Pscorted daughter Susan to 
professional photographer he has he turned professional Pvening events and been allowed 
captured Gerald Ford in some of photographer at age 17. He went to the photograph the family in 
his most intimate moments. His work the next year for the Oregon personal moments. 
professionalism and style has won .Journal in Portland. From there But above all, Kennerly has seen 
a national notoriety that seems to he hired on with the United Press the private and the public side of 
have left him unaffected. International and was stationed in the PresidPnt. .and sees little 
found himself as somewhat a a 
•1 Los Angeles, New York, and difference between the two. · Washington, covering the White "There aren't two Gerald Fords, House for a time. there'sone,"hesays. "Thewayhe ~ After his stint in Vietnam, relatt>s to people is just the way he -~ Kennt>rly joined Life magazine i~. Ht>'~ thoughtful and a good just months before it folded, when listener. he transferred to Tim«>. Then, on Kt>nnerly has achieved some August 9 last year President Ford notoriety around Washington as an named Kennerly his personal Pligible bachelor. When Kennerly ··~ photographer. having covered was photographed at a White Ford as vice-president for Time. House State Dinner escorting _ actress Candace Bt>rgen, the photo SincP assuming his job, Ken-was noted by national magazines. nerly has produced some of the Gossip-prone Washington circles most revealing photographs of began to make ties for Kennerly. President Ford and the First Kennerly. of course. does not like Family. His access to the Prt>sident to comment on such personal is perhaps unprecedented, having matters. About Candace Bergen the ability to simply walk in the he prefers to say, "She and I are -Oval Office and catch President good friends." Ford informally in a way While Kennerly has apparently restricted in the Nixon White lived well with his new-found fame, House. his effect on the Ford presidency Kennerly observes that the may have earned that fame. President is more than his irn-Kennerly has done much to mPdiate superior. "We're per-Pnhance Ford's goal for an open sonal friends and it's a very good White House, in contrast to his professional relationship," he predecessor's. Not only has notes. Kt>nnerly recorded intimate scenes 
KENNERLY:  PEOPLE  don't  
believe  some  bearded  dude  
photographer  is  with  the  

Kt-nnerly attributes much of his with the President and the First success as a photographer to the Family, but he has nearlv 25 
WIN A 1 0 SPEED BICYCLE 
AND CRUISE THE QUAD 
IN STYLE THIS SPRING! 
The Purchase of Any 
PRO TOOTHBRUSH at 
Notre Dame Bookstore 
Will Give You a Chance, 
to Win This Bicycle 
ENTER TODAY 
President. (Photo by Chris Smith) 


SHARE THE RIDE WITH US THIS VACATION AND GET ON TO AGOOD THING. 
Us means Greyhound, and a lot of your fellow students who are already on to a good thing. You leave when you like. Travel comfortably. Arrive refreshed and on time. You'll save money, too. over the increased air fares. Share the ride with us on weekends. Holidays. Anytime. Go Greyhound. 
GREYHOUND SERVICE 
ONE­ ROUND­YOU CAN  YOU  
TO  WAY  TRIP  LEAVE  ARRIVE  
Chicago  5.85  11.15  4:30p.m.  7:00p.m.  
1>etroit  12.30  23.40  10:35 a.m.  :!:45 p.m .  
Cleveland  15.75  29.95  8:55a.m.  4:10p.m.  
St. Louis  17.00  32.30  9:25a.m.  6:50p.m.  
Toledo  9.60  18.25  9:15p.m.  1:25 a.m.  

Ask.your agent about additional departures and return trips. 
Greyhound Bus Terminal 
210 W. Monroe St. 
287-6541 

GO GREYHOUND 
...and leave me driving to us® 
photographers gain indivfdual access to the President. 
Kt-nnerly's job has taken him throughout the world to 50 different countries and, given the travel scht-dule of President Ford, he may soon equal that number in states. The scene enacted by Kt>nnerly at Michiana Regional Airport at the start of the President's Notre Dame visit is likt-ly to recur. 


NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION PROUDLY PRESENTS 
THE 

ALICE COOPER SHOW 
"WELCOME TO MY NIGHTMARE" 
SPECIAL GUEST STAR: 

SUZI QUATRO 
TUESDAY APRIL 29 8:00 p.m... 
NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC & -CONVOCAifo·N CENTER 
TICKETS NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE AND A.C.C. ONLY. PRICES: $7.00, $6.00, and $5.00 



the observer· 
Organizational meeting -Monaay 



Democrats--to hold Mock Convention 
by Jack C. Silhavy The 1976 convention is slated for 
staff reporter the third week in Feb at Stepan 
Center and will run for four 
The Mock Democratic National days. These mock conventions are Committee will hold a meeting on miniatures fo the national con­Monday April 29 at 7:30pm in the ventions. Next year's convention LaFortuune ballroom. This will be will simulate the Democratic an organizational and get Party Convention because it will acquainted session for the be the opposition party in the 1976 commmee, which holds the mock election. Mark Frieden, a com­political conventions each mittee member, said that Ford can Presidential election. be assumed to be the clear-cut 
St. Mary's lnPIRG drive successfully completed 
h~ :\largie lrr Staff Heporter 
The St. Mary's InPIRG petition drive has been successfully completed. Mark C'lark, a former Notre Dame lnPIRG board nwmher. now working to establish the SMC chapter, reported that he was pleased with the results, citing that the ti5-70 per cent student body support as a high in Indiana. 
l>uring the two weeks of f•<'titioning organizers obtained nwr t050 signatures. 
··Most sutdents know very little about the organization when we started out. but it looks now like a lot of people are interested," statE.>d Clark. "The percentage of support is one of the highest in any drive in the state. St. Mary's drive t'\'Pn heat Notre Dame's". he said. 
Nt•xt on the agenda for approval is the Student Assembly. The proposal for the establishment of Ini'IHG at SMC will be heard at thP Asst'mbly's May 4 ml:'eting. If thP InPIR<; proposal is passl:'d. it will thl:'n bl:' sent to Student Affairs for final approval. 
1-:ll:'ctions for the sl:'ven ml:'mber student board of dirl:'ctors and one rl:'presl:'ntative to the central organization will be held at a nweting. Sunday at 4:00 in the SciPnl'l:' Hall. room 204. 
"All St. Mary.'s students are t'ligible to vote and to run for the offices. The students showed by thl:' pl:'tition dirve that they're interested and now they have a chanee to make it work by getting mvovled." Clark I:'Xplained. 
The first lnPIRG project in whieh St. Mary's will be invovled in is a survl:'y of sundries and at loeal drug stores. 
"This \\~ill be a joint effort of the Ini'JH(; branches at SMC. NO. and ll1SB. Hight now, we need rt'st'arehers and survl:'yors", said 
nark. 
:\nv student interested in assisiing in the study should eontact Jim Wilmes at 233-3452. 
Officers finalize plans 
for 'Junior Bar Night' 
.Junior · class officers have finalized plans for "Junior Night" at the Alumni -Senior nub. . scheduled for Monday night, April 28. 
Inducted in the program is a team pool tournament which will begin at 8 pm. This tournament will be limited to the first 16 doubles teams that sign up and will follow a single elimination format. The winning team will receive certificates for free Senior Bar cards for next year. . 
A folk-singing trio comprised of Mary Lou Iredale, Jim Ernzen, and Chuck Beck will provide en­tertainment early in the evening. A"Lack of Talent" contest will be held later. Several acts have been lined up for the show, but more are still needed. The prizes for this contest will be certificates for bar cards for next year. 
The final event of the evening will be a sing-along with the "Frisbionese Liberation Army llrum and Bugle Corps." 
Door prizes will be given to the tOOth and 200th people to enter the Sl:'nior Bar. A cover charge of 25 cents will be taken at the door and 
donated  to  this weekend's Dance  
Marathon  for  muscular  
distrophy.  

For more . information on "Junior Night," contact the chairman, Ed Reilly, at 289-7564. 
candidate for the Republican 
Party. 
This mini-convention is called "a 
course in practical politics" by 
Paul Bartholomew, director of the 
committee. It utilizes all of the 
national convention rules including 
the delegation system represen­
ting different states. 
Frieden stated there is a good 
cross-section of the country here at 
N.D. so that these delegations are very useful in projecting what will happen on the national scene. He added that this indicates the way votes will run for each can­didate. and that this is a reason for its success every session. 
Monday's organizational meeting is to get workers and delegates together, to meet the committee members, and to generally find out what the whole convention is about. 
"We're trying to get as many delegates and campaign managers as possible," Frieden stated, "I think we'll have pretty good sucess, because there are not clear-cut leaders." 
Frieden noted that many things need to be ironed out, saying "we need rules, a platform and credentials committees." He said that he would like to see everyone at the meeting, stressing that graduate and St. Mary's students should take an interest also, since they are part of the student representation. 
"This is the time when NO and SMC will be at center stage in the national spotlight--with the Democratic Party paying par­ticuular attention," Frieden! said. He pointed out that in 1972 the mini-convention picked correctly nominating McGovern and Bayh. 
He added, "it's the most direct method students have of making their voices heard by the nation. We encourage all to come and make themselves heard." 
The conventions have been held every Presidential election year 


SUNDAY, MAY 18 5 PM ONE SHOW ONLY 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ALL SEATS RESERVED $7.50 
1  
TICKETS ON SALE  .  $6.501  
STARTING MONDAY,  $5.50  
APRIL 28 11 AM TO  

5 PM DAILY AT AUD. BOX-OFFICE 

• 
. .
····•···········•············•······················•··············•················••·········•·•·
. 

STUDENT UNION PRESENTS: 
HUMPHREY BOGART 
FILM FESTIVAL April 24-28 
Thurs. Casablanca 71 91·11 p.m. 
Fri. The Big Sleep 7I 91 11 p.m. 
Sat. The Maltese Falcon 7I 9I 1 1 p.m. un. The Caine Mutiny '6 :3019 11 :30 p.~.
I 
Mon. The Treasure of Sierra Madre 6:301 91 11:30 p.m. 
All films shown in the Engineering Auditorium Admission: $1.00 
since 1940, except in 1944, due to the war. The first convention was only open to political science majors, but in 1948 was opened to the whole university. Only after 1954 were St. Mary's students invited to participate. 

l 
r 
the observer Friday, April 25, 1975
6 



'america' concert--love it or leave it 
gregg bangs and leo hansen 
As is the case at any public professional performances. In audience. I expected them to play efforts which added variety to the was his electric guitar leads. It event, there are always varying fact, I really appreciated the fact "Horse" as an encore the whole now of the concert. Gerry seemed to me he was trying to opinions on the proceedings that that they didn't waste any time concert. but the way they shoved Beckley's grande white piano was imitate Joe Walsh on a few solos. 
between numbers on onde-sided the songs down the throat's mellow at times but also lively as In fact, the group was trying to gethad just taken place. The America 
concert, held last night at the dialogues with the audience. audience took whatever thrill there w<'ll. Dan Peek displayed diver-into some rock an' roll music A.C.C., was no exception to the However. I'm not so sure that they could've been out of it. sity by playing slide and mellotron. towards the end. were honest in their performance. Hight: But don't accuse a person Neither was complex, but it was Hight: You're right.
rule. Gregg Bangs, Mr. Left, who I think they were just softening the of rape when the so-<:alled victim effective. Left: No. you're right. 
appropriately sat on the left side of crowd up with a few big hits before wanted it. "A Horse with No l.t>ft: Granted, Peek and Beckley Hight: Whatever. America is notthe stage held different opinions they unloaded the new album on Name" is a haunting song. It were good, but Dewey Bunnel synonamous with rock an' roll. lthan Leo Hansen, who obviously them. means little in itself but a lot seems to dominate the group. You really enjoyed the concert. In fact,was positioned on the right hand Higfht: Yeah. but they played to everyone. America's songs are just have to look at the songs he's next to of course god america i loveside. 
what everybody wanted to hear. like that. written--"Tin Man," "Ventura you Hight: Hey, how were the seats I I-:Iton John followed much the Left: I agree with you on that Highway," and "Horse with No l.t>ft: Take away the attempted got you last night? same approach, but when Yes point. They leave the thinking up Name." It's his songs that stand , rock an' roll and the leading on, 
I l.t>ft: Not bad. except I think the played here last semester, the to you. Perhap that's why I en-out. His vocals seem to have and I think I could stand beside
( 
people on the far left or right hand crowd reaction to the older and joyed the earlier part of the show conviction--he makes you believe her.l side had difficulty seeing the stage. familiar material was far greater more when they played more what you're hearing. The only part Hight: I think they call this falling Hight: Like me, huh? It didn't than the response given the accoustically oriented songs. You I didn't like about his performance action. Yeah. you're right. 

hother mt> that much during Ht•la~·pr material, which had not know,w hen they get into romance, Amt•rica 's part of the show. yet been released. t>molional feelings, all those lonely l.t>ft: I take it you didn't like the l.t>ft: But they were leading up to people. muscrats in love, tin men, warm-up band. the encore the whole concert. It highways California, all those Hight: No. not really--what were set-ms as if the two encore songs, better days and company. tht-ir namt-s? , "Mr. Sandman." and "Horse with I.t•ft: What were their names? No Namt>" were a planned part of Hight: I liked the way the three of Hight: "The band that backs up . the show instead of a response to a them switched back and forth from America while they're on tour." calling back from a warm the three guitar set to diverse solo I.t•ft: Dave Dickey was pretty good on bass though. In fact the only decent numbers they played was when he played lead guitar. Hight: He must have savored playing with America. The way he plays with them you'd think he was part of the band all the time. 
l.t>ft : I kind of Pxpected them.to start off with "Miniature" ahd "Tin Man," as they do in the lloliday album, sought of like YES does with "Firebird Suite." Hight: I was surprised that they dido't come outand try to sell us lh•arts. their new album. They didn't get into that until the concert was nearly over. It seemed like a very professional, but honest, approach to me. 
Left I have nothing against 

features 
7 


Ten Weekly_ Issues (Jun 12-Aug 14 ) 
friends 

1~-------------------­

Delivered/ I YES! Enrich my summer! 
I

to your. 
I Name 
Home 1 I ----------------­
1Address
$2 
.\. -------------------­
NOTRE DAME LEGAL AID AND DEFENDER ASSOC. PRESENTS: 
R. EUGENE PINCHAM 
NOTED CHICAGO CRIMINAL A TT' Y 
4:00P.M. SUNDAY, APRIL 27 LAW SCHOOL LOUNGE PUBLIC INVITED FREE 


server 


' 
i I 
\ 
Or41....,11i111•·-------------------~·Sign up next week in ·rhe dining halls 
Friday, April 25, 1975 

Letters to a Lonely 
the god who hides 
reverend robert 
griffin 

liP was nineteen years of age, and he had lost h1s Catholic faith, and it was a very serious problem. Last year. he had believed t•verything: faith was a warm puppy that snugglPd up inside him: and he could light candles for his parents at the Grotto. and fePI good about those candles, and be trustful of heaven's attentiveness toward a family's needs. Last year. he had believed in a Blessed Mother arvl an all-loving God, and in the Seven Sacra .1ents and the Body and Hlood of Christ at Mass. The whole smPar of faith. with its creeds and glorias, was his: it kept him happy and it kept him praying. Hut now. he had Lost It All. He was upset and indignant over the loss, and he felt like a child that is alone in the darkness. 
I thought. as he talked. of Oscar Wilde's commmt on the loss of parents: "To have lost one parent seems like a tragedy: to have lost both parents seems like carPlessness." To have Lost It All, the immPnsity of one's Christian faith, seems absurd: it is like saying one has misplaced the Pntire continent of Australia. You may fall off the pdge of Australia, or lose your navigational bearings in your search for the place. Rut having set an exploring foot on Sidnpy's sandy shore. you belong to the place at !Past temporarily: it does not lwlong to you. Continents. do not get lost; peoplP gPt lost. As with continents, so with Faith. 
In considPring God, then. and the chap who daimPd God's loss. I think I was of­fPndPd by thP arrogancP of the claim. I mt'an. herP is God dwPlling in a Trinity of creating. rPdPPming Persons: a mystery of Falht•r. Son. and Paraclete whose bPing is a community of light: here is lov, revealed in a Word !\lade FIPsh. and mercy in the wounds of thP Lamb. HPre is the Eucharist ;md ('ana of (;alilee and the Sermon on the :\lount : hPre is. Calvary. Pt>ntecost. the DidachP. an lhP Council of Chalcedon. Ht>re is the <'hurch of Paul and St. Francis, the Calh<'dral of Chartres. and the papacy of .John XXIII. Ht>rP is the shimmering lTeation of God raising up glory upon glory for thP comfort of His peoplt> and the delight of II is childrPn. And ht>re. lost to himself among lhP phrasps of the creed and gloria. was my young agnostic. denying them all, as though thP note could say to the sym­phony: "I have trouble believing that you t•xist." 
Yt•t hP was a very decent.,·oungman, very ~inePrt'. and I wouldn't want you to think that I didn't lovP him. He spoke of faith with a gracpful kind of wistfulness. as though he \H'rt' ealiban haunted by the enchantments of Arit•l on Prospero's wondrous island: 
Tht• ish• is rull or noises, Sounds. and sweet airs. that give delight, and hur,t not. Sonu•timt>s a thousand !wangling in­strumt>nls 
Will hum about mine ears; and sometimes \'OiCPS. That. ir I then had wak'd after long sleep, Will make mP slet>p again; and thPn, in d1·paming. Tht> clouds nwthought would open and show richt>s Ht>ad~· to drop upon me, that, when I wak'd, I <Tit>d to drpam again. 
I murmured my responses to him with caring. I think. "You professed a faith in an all-loving God." I said; "but at the age of ninPtPen. how could you tell? Was it from ~·our own PxperiPnce, or did someone mPntion the deity's all-lovingness as part of a faith you must believe?" 
l\1y point was this: faith. as an experience that possessPs us. is not merely an assent to propositions prPsentPd to us by parents and priests. Faith comes from our attentiveness to the way WI' are cared for by a freind: fromlParning to trust the friend even when liP seems to nPglect us. or to treat us shab­hilv. Wht>n I learn to understand that the da~kest momPnts bPtween us are the times of my friPnds deeping caring, then faith lwgins to bP horn. <ls this hopelessly shallow. like a frPshman explaining to his pastor why hP doPsn't want to go to church?") 
I said: "Faith begun by candle glow in the night comfort of grottos must be tested for strPngth in Gt'thsemane and at Calvary, in all the places whPre innocence suffers and diPs. twrorp wP can understand whether the allPgedly all-loving God plays cruel games with us. or not." 
TlwrP arp other crosses I could havP nwntionPd: thP non-violent tTOSSPS from a (;od who dt>nies us love it seems when Ht> hidPs Himself from us. WP beat with our lists against thP door of of his ·heart. Still lhPrt' is no answer. The silence is so lt'rriblP. WI' imagine that WP have bloodied our hands against the door of an empty housP. whPrP the tenant has either moved awav or diPd. or was never at home there at all. ·It is lht>re. in thP alonPnt>ss created by lhP (iod Who HidPs. shared by the believer with tht• athPist and agnostic, that one must dt•cid<• whPther thPrP is an all-lovingness rt•vealt·d to us in the divine neglect. Somt'l imPs one has to be older than nineteen to rPalizt> that God is as close to us in His hiddt>nnPss as Ht• is in His openness. 
lt·ould IPll ht> thought I was handing him a lot of stalP. undigested poop. HP said politely: "I seP you are a man of great faith." 
"Oh. Christ." I thought. "I don't want him supposing I never have Doubts. But I'm not going to pose as one of those stupid clerical showboats who think it to be fashionable and lrt>s chic to admit: 'We preachers can be doubtPrs also.' as though anyone had sup­post>d lhPy couldn't be." 
"Look." I said: "Suppose you made a list 
man of Ia mancha 
Tonight Miguel dt> Cervantes will enter a I<:·;pry jwrformance will begin at 8 p.m., but 161h t'Pntury dungeon, to await trial before for lhP May 17 production. which will open the Spanish Inquisition. The prisoners, at 7::!0 p.m. rough mt>n and womPn who haven't seen the :\I an nr La :\lancha has. since its debut in light of day in years. will put him before yet [';pw York in 1966. lwt>n in some disfavor in another tribunal--their own--{)n charges of litPrary eirciPs. where it is often set>n as a !wing "an idealist. a bad poet, and an honest "bastardization" of the novel Don ()uixote. man." CPrvantes' only defense--he makes WassPrman answPrs this by writing that it his fictitious character. Don Quixote, was not the novel he sought to dramatize-­Knight-Errant of La Mancha, come alive his pffort began as an attempt to dramatize right in the depths of the prison. with the lhP life of Miguel de Ct>rvantes, the explore prisonPrs playing the roles. Ry the time to what <·xtPnt Quixote's kind of noble vision <'prvantt's' play has finishPd and he is called of life was lunatic--and necessary--in the up to face the Inquisition. the prisoners go context of a brutal realism that was Cer­haek to tht-ir separate cells. touched by ,·antes' life. somPthing lht>y don't fully understand. but :\Jan nr La :\lancha is. in fact, a powerful know has transformed tht'm all the same. play. one of tht' most successfully dramatic 
Tonight the ND-SMC Drama Depart-musicals <'Ver writtt'n. Its music is rhyth­nwnt's production of :\lan of La :\lancha, mically Pvasive, Spanish and Moor, exotic Dale Witsserman's musical based on the life and compPiling. with lyrics that alternately of 1\ligut>l de Cervantes and his novel Don shimmPrandst>ar. Severalofitssongshave t~uixntP. will premier on stage in SMC's long ago Pstablished themselves in the ()'Laughlin Auditorium at 8:00. The play, popular mind. like ''The Impossible dirPct<'d by Heginald Bain and produced by DrPam .. and "Dulcinea." Hichard Ht>rgman. features Dan Dailey as RPservations may be l'ervantes and ~uixote. Johanna Drew as had hy calling the Programming Office at Aldoriza-Oulcin~a .. and Sq>tt Wahle as Saint Mary's. or stopping by the box office C,•r··antt>s" itt~n" ·.rvant ~oo Sa~· Panzo;~. ,CHl n·Laughlin during the,day. Tick('tS· may 
Th<· p: ·.-w11l , ~n tomght and tom•:r,.ow ll" 'lu,:ha~ :' _ the door before pPr­,PI.ight, ;,;;~:· l.. Z and .), anct..M~:t. .16 ~Ill: 17. ;.,,.rr3;c::'~:c 
of all tht' articles of faith you used to believe. reconcile the chaos that divides us against as. for pxample, that God exists, or that it is ourselves. At all ages of life, we must keep . the faith of Christians that Jesus rose from growing up to the experience of Who Christ ' thP dead. Maybe a theologian could prove to is. At !imPs, all of us doubt, as we turn in­you that somP of those beliefs are true. trospective from the tensions of growing up 1\laybe he could prove that some of them or growing old. Then Christ may seem like \H're rubbish: nobody, informed, ever a toy we cherished in innocence, like a heliPved them.and the church never taught discarded teddy bear. and we weep to find 
them. as. for example, the nonsense that the our childhood toys again." 
Pope nPVPr makes a mistake. Maybe, when "My pathway is Jittered with the bleached 
you finished, you would have a whole • hones of the teddy bears of faith." said the 
l'atechism of truths. you really believed in, young man. rising to leave. 
all of them neatly spelled out. But when you "We lose Him. only to find Him again." I 
had finished that list of acceptable truths, said. "HP never le~s us lose Him. and I 
~·ou still wouldn't have faith." quoted from 'The Hound of Heaven'." 
liP yawnt>d. "I've gotta go," he said. "Christ-ridden tTPatures. all of us," the 
"l'\'e got this paper to write." ~·oung man said. "Regular Jesus freaks. 
"Faith comes," I said. "when you realize And I thought I was losing my faith." 
lhPrt' is an integration between your creed At this point. hP was out the door. As a 
and your Pxperience. as a concrete human dt>cent ~·oung man. of course. he never said 
t'VPnt. the truth of Trinitarian metaphysics, half the flippancies I have attributed to him. 
as when WP say that Christ is of one sub­I knPw I had disappointed him. but I can 
stancP with the Father. But there is our never really t•xplain faith to anyone. Yet 
lt>prosy. our blindness, our death that Jesus with-the experiPnce of nearly five decades of 
lwln!i 11s to Pscape from. Love. practised as livP. no one can prove to me that God does 
a discipline of sharing, can lead to not Pxist. and that Christ is not His reality. 
n•su•• PCtiOit, with such victories over the But explaining Him would be like trying to 
grave that WP can say to Lazarus:Holl ovpr. t•xplain the air that supports my breathing. 
BrothPr Lazarus'." Call it faith; call it grace; I couldn't lose 
I think that for a faith confirmation. he Him if I tried. I couldn't lose the sunlight. 
would havP prefprred seeing water turned l'ither. or the stars shining at night. 
into winP. I'vp met a lot of people on this campus 
"If you are a believer."· I said, "there who are troubled about losing their faith. 
t•omt>s a timP when life won't make sense !\on<• of them will Pver believe that rather 
without faith to Pxplain it. Religious truths than losing their faith, they may be well on 
an• taught you as a child: for a while you their way to finding it. Sometimes, their 
aeeept I hPm uncritically. When you do parPnts don't hPiieve it, either. and then the 
hPgin to qut>stion them. as you must, you are tTisis of faith becomes a family crisis. Of 
rt'ally not flirting with damnation." course somt> students do end up as 
"This is a \'Pry intPresting conversation," atht•ists and agnostics. so I understamd why
he said. "I must remPmbPr it." part'nts worry. Hut I don't despair over 
"Tht> tmt>xamined life is not worth living," thPm anymore than I congratulate every 
I said. "Tht> unquestionPd faith is not worth <'atholic on the quality of his Christianity.
having." I simply know that many unbelievers find 
"You'vt> ht>Pn very helpful." he said. <;od wparing another face than the mask of 
"Insights like yours really make the dif­<'hrist You can write then off as merely 
ft•rt•ne<·." humanitarian. Hut whPn have I pver seen 
"Faith touches the hPart," I said. "Its <;od anv dosPr at hand than when I see Him 
truth binds the heart; still there is the in the face of my brother~ In the meantime. 
frt•Pdom to doubt. Christ is the answer that thP unbeliever is binding up wounds, 
I'Xplains Iht> mystery of Everyman: his wlwtht'r hP is agnostic or not. he knows that 
griPf. his death, his victory, his peace. faith is a whole different experience from 
1'hrist 's l'Xpl•rience is archetypal. helping lhP soul's l'Uddling up to the warmth of a 
11s through His Pxample and grace to puppy. 
ward-phillips lectures 
For a decade now, the Ward-Phillips incredibly to turn himself into one of the 
Lectures have been an annual focus of in-dogmatic critics he had so shrewdly and 
tellectual activity not only for the English hilariously parodied in The Pooh l't·qMx 
Dt>partment, but for the University as a In The Sins or the Fathers: Hawthorne's 
whole. Each year, the English Department Psychological Themes, ( 1966) Crews comes 
invites a nationally prominent literary forth as a full-blown, doctrinaire Freudian. 
scholar to give a series of four public lee-The book produced a furor in the staid little 
lures in commemoration of two teachers world of Hawthorne scholars and rapidly 
whose dedication to their students served as became recognized as one of the very best 
an example to all scholar-teachers. The Freudian critical studies anywhere, on any 
Ward-Phillips Lectures are meant to literary subject. The Pooh Perplex, 
commemorate by cofltinuance--to in-however, remains Crews' dominant note. 
vigorate by reaching out for the best He recently has become explicit in 
thinkers about literature. When they work, estimating both the strengths and 
as they most frequently do, they turn us weaknesses of applying psychoanalysis to 
toward new ways of looking at literature by literature. In the Fall of this year will ap­
allowing us to hear a widely recognized pear his most recent book, entitled Out of 
teacher in the act of ordering a broad My System: Psychoanalysis, Ideology. and 
literary experience. Critical Method. It will apparently be a 
farewell to any possibility of an all-
This spring, the eighth Ward-Phillips encompassing psychoanalytic criticism. 
Lectures will be given by Frederick C. 
Crews from the University of California, . Ward-Phillips 1975 promises to display 
Berkeley. In the early 60's Crews endeared 1 this versatile mind in yet a new area. His 
himself to an entire generation of un-chosen topic is "Accommodating the 
dergraduate and graduate students by Moderns." During the four lectures, he will 
publishing a needling satire on overinflated rashion a new perspective form which to 
critics: The l'ooh Pf'rplex: A Freshman view the accepted giants of modern Casebook. Chapters by "P.R. Honeycomb" literature: Yeats, Joyce, Lawrence, Pound, on "The Theory and Practice of Bardic Eliot and Woolf. These giants have come Verse: Notations on the Hums of Pooh," or under attack from two main directions-an by "Woodbine Meadowlark" called "A Ia f'thical one that sees in them a weakened set recherche du Pooh perdu," or by "Duns C. of values and an avant-garde camp <e.g. Penwiper" -these leave Winnie the Pooh Susan Sontag) that sees them as in-untouched, but its "critics" untouchable. sufficiently daring. The last lecture pleads Still in print as a paperback, the book for a rejection of attitudes, like those of continues to make it delightfully impossible Charles Olson, which would demand im­to take ourselves or our "authorities" too possible things from the "moderns." It seriously. More orthodox publications works by developing a detailed analogy followed The Pooh Perplex, but none between modernism in literature and overshadowed it. Cubism in paintinJ{. 
But '.'orthodox" is the wrong word, if The lectures wilfbe delivered each dar at "orthodox". js. taken with any connotations 4:00 p.m. in the Library Auditonutn of "pt•qE>Siriah.''"traditiona.l,"or "avoiding ·beginning Tuesday, April 29. On Tues$y contro>.rersy."· t:':t~s· i~ 'iimpOrtant w,ork' ·, and Thursday there will be spec'c-: tip-was a. fuU,-ler~th ~t.upy Qf, .Nalh~trtieJ .portunities. to meet with t:;.-. !~tu~ f,_c, Hawthorne 1n which :he author seemed conversatioa. The nrnlli'Am i .. r 

The ObServer 
on independent student newspaper Founded November 3, 1966 
Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief Bob Zocas Business Man&ier Bob McManus Ad...rtisinc M~acer 

EDITORIAL BOARD . . AI Rutherford. Managing Editor; Fred Graver. Executive Editor; Jim Eder, Ed,itonal Edolor K!'n Girouard. News Editor; Pat Hanifin, Campus Editor; Mary .Janca, St. MarysE do tor KPn Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; TomO Nell. Features Edotor lhns Smith, Photo Editor 
Editori•ls: llll-8661 Newt· 181-1715 Bu•ineu: lBJ-7471 
Friday, April 25, 1975 

Informing Ford 
Student Body President Ed Byrne that the bestowal of an honorary doctor should be commended for his efforts in of laws degree upon him should not be bringing the political sentiments of !he regarded as an expression of the 
Notre Dame Community to the attent1on University's approval of all his po!ici~s. 
of President Ford. Second, if the lines of commumcat1on 
The busy schedule of Ford's St. between the federal government and the 
Patrick's Day visit to this campus did not academic world are to be opened as Ford 
provide the students wit~ a~ adequate proposed in his speech before the Special 
opportunity to express the1r v1ews to the Academic Convocation, the flow if ideas 
President. The letter drafted by Byrne, must travel both directions. This means 
with assistance from his associates in that college and university stude~ts ~ust 
Student Government and members of the take the initiative to express the1r v1ews 
Student Affairs Office, very admirably in a responsible manner so that they will 
reflects the scope of student opinion as it be given serious consideration. 
was expressed vocally and in the great The honest but respectful presentaion 
number of letters sent to this newspaper of the political sentiments of this campus 
at the time of the President's visit. through Byrne's letter to Ford is the type 
The Byrne letter does not blatantly .of free expression that is desperately 
attack the Ford administration, but it needed if the channels of communication 
very clearly expr.esses the moral con­between academia and government are 
cerns of the Notre Dame community and to be opened and used benefitially. 
its basic disapproval of such govern­Ed Byrne should be commended for 
mental policies as the sale of arms to taking the initiative in trying to over­
nations at war, excessive invovement in come the lack of communication that 
Southeast Asia, and the CIA's domestic plagued the President's visit to Notre 
surveillance and intervention in Chile. Dame and to explore the possibilities of a 
new line of communication.
These sentiments needed to be brought to Ford's attention for two reasons. 
The Editorial Board

First, the President should understand 
D p inian·'!!!!!!!!!!!!!!I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
A Case For Concern 
cecilia prinster 
Having bel:'n involved with the sentimPntal and naive when one society pt>rpetuate because ttoeyNO World Hunger Coalition since looks at the public and political t•xist in ourselves. And unless we its inception last semester, I have mt>asurPs that are needed to effect art> willing to purge ourselves as had many monents of self­large scale changes. We all know individuals of the Pvils that we see t-xamination regarding my at­about the need for big changes. in sociPty. nogthing will ever really titude towards world hunger and Rut how devoted are we to a ehange. Hunger. pollution, mv involvement in it. I have often 1 eausP unless the issues enter our discrimination will remain and we askro myself why am I involved in own lives. unless the issue is vital will rot away in our lethargythP coalition, making a fool of Pnough to respond in little ways, and spJf-dt>lusion unless we mvsPlf passing out pledges and too. Those little sacrifices were respond in our very own lives. questionnaires? What difference vPry important because they Wt> must acquire a mortality doPs it rPally make to be so con­touched mP personally in my• that is bast>d on somP value above C{'rnPd about people so far away'! PvPryday life. This was necessary thP outside of our temporary and 
r 
The Pxplanation goes back a bPcause I knew that the preser-immt>diatP needs: that of Justice, bit. I am from Colorado and have vation of Natural Bauty depended Truth and Love. We must also always been concerned with 1 nnpPople.LOTSofpeople,because IParn that these virtues are Pcology: i.e. preserving that 1 it was LOTS of people that had Pssential to the true peace of mind lwauty of nature which no man or ' creatPd the problem in the first which WP are all seeking. Thomas woman can create, and which none ' placP. But I also knew that I could l\1t>rton said that "the direct and HUT man or woman destroys. In not ask anyone else to do purp PxpPrience of reality in its order to prevent that destruction, somPthing which I had not been ultimate root is man's deepest ( mv concPrn for Pcology had to willing to do myself. So I gladly nPPd." In order to find Truth. involve an Pxamination of my own made somP sacrifices and went out rPality in its ultimate root, we ( nPt-ds. thP resources available to of my way to conserve Pnergy, must Pmploiy Justice and Love. ( fill those needs, and the papPr and watPr. · WP. tht> rich. and the powerfulrt-lationship between them and my WhPn the hunger issue came to and the educatPd of thP world, are ~ mv attention. I first saw it as "food thP arbitPrs of Justice for those
dt>sires. · r But I found that in order to Pc.ology": r was accustoml:'d to a who havp not. and our Justice I honPstly Pxamine these things, I eoncPrn for not wasting things, and eannot discrimminate againsthad to bp compelled bysomething it was reasonable that I should not racP. crPPd. color. sex or territorygrPater than, and outside of, wastP food. But it is difficult to if it is to Pmbrace Truth. mvself: i.P. the Beauty of Nature. sustain such a conviction unless we Moreover. our Justice and Love1 B~t I soon learnPd that this was not spp thP consequences of that waste. as a society must be founded on 'l somPthing divorced from me like I OnP day I saw one of those that which wp find within ourselves first thought, but that it was in fact gruesomP pictures of a hollow-as individuals. for it is our inner necessary for me to wonderat chPPkPd woman from Bangia-convictions that give power and 
Nature. It was a need greater than ctesh. That hopeless stare saw pPrmanPnce to our societal mv immPdiate need for big cars right through my pat answers and values. arid color t.v.'s, electric hair­lukewarm concern. it cried out to ThP injustice and intolerance of 
setters and typewriters. Those mP with a wordless voice that said: the world around us are deman­
' 
wpre \just luxuries and con­l "I'm dying becauseofipeople just ding that wP respond, but the first vPniences that I found I could · like you who eat and drink too and primary response must come Pasily sacrifice for the sake of a -much. You're overweight and I'm from Pach of us, and it must be
f 
( greater. much more basic need­1 dying of starvation." sPen in Pach of our lives. The way the need for an unpolluted Natural 
I know that I can never hope to in which Pach of us expresses our
r 
BPauty which I could love and 
change millions of people, but I response is not important. What is rPspect. haven't even the right to ask one important is THAT we respond,
f 
These little! sacrifices of some other person to care unless I care and respond honestly, justly and
( 
modern conveniences may seem 
inconsequential when compared to of us want to do something for the thPn will we be able to preserve the 
the immPnsity of the problem, and good of society, but few of us bPauty of Nature, the greatest of 
I first. And I mean really care. All with selfless compassion. Only 
this type of response may seem· 
honestly ·admit that the evils of which is Man and Woman. 
Upilt-.-1 _ 
A Report To The Academy 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiif ·-,~ 
.\ Ht>port to tht> Ho_yal Acadt>my of Lagado by the Projector in l.inguistics, !\lost l>t-\·oted Servant of Modern Forms and Aeolist first dass. (;pntJPmen. . 
LPt mt-first thank you very much for allowing me to speak to ~1s convPntion. Aftpr listening to the papers prPSPntPd, and studymg thP important research of my colleagues, there is no doubt in ~Y mind that the new dawn of man is on the way, a day when man Will livP at his pPak PfficiPncy. . 
1 point spPcifically to threP pvents which ha~e been held which have givPn mP much mthusiasm on my own proJect: . . -ThP paper presentPd by Dr. Machecio on the reductiOn of IOef­ficiPnt and wasteful sexual conduct. ·ThP rPsParch proposed by Dr. Tooey on the reduction of needless mPntallJrPssure and Pxhaustio~. . . 
·The corking good seminar on 10creased effiCiency of the bowels, lt>ading to thPir Pventual Plimination from the human sphere, by l\lr. 1\linoot. 
I would now like to propose that the human form of conversation is thP most wastPful activity of all. 
First. a dPfinition of the conversation as I see it in today's world: a discharge of words from one orifice, with the purpose of ·t'l_iciting similar dischargP from another's orifice. VPry often noth10g but hrPath though at limPs full to the brim with hefty matter. 
ThPrP arP two problematical categories to the modern con­vPrsation which !Pad mP to bPlieve that it is not worth the energy PxpPndPd on sustaining it, and I would like to define these two art>as. . 
ThP first problPmatical category concerns those convers~twns which run on. with no sign of stopping, leaving those engaged 10 the eonvPrsation incapacitated and at the mercy of th~. ceasel~ss ctribblP. This type of conversation has been known to dirty the tidy undPrcurrPnt of our daily affairs quite often. It occurs most often among men of somP learning. who have let t_heir heads _become fillPd with strange and foreign substances which do not fmd rest t•asily within thP crPvices of the mind. The unrest_ causes undue activity. nPPdlPss irritation and Pventually great discharge at an amazing raiP. . 
ThP sPcond problematical category concerns those conversatiOns which cPase to find propPr outlet thorugh the orifice, and instead rPmain with the vessel of digestion where they cause great discomfort. ThP conversation cannot be elicited from the orifice for somP limP, and the conversant becomes a possessor of a quivPring. abject abyss of terror. 
·As vou havp IParnPd from the presentation made by Dr. Ford at thP AcadPmy a fpw months ago, one need not have any special quality or quantity of conversation within to suffer from either the first or spcond disease. 
I havp prPsently completed my research into the nature of the modPrn conversation at an Academy much like our own. There, I witnPssPd many mpn of great mind and spirit speaking to each olhPr. l\1y findings arP such: . 
1\lany mPn abuse their orifices horribly, and soon after begm­ning this abuse appPar much the worse for it. The idea that men can gain by the Pxchange of matter from one orifice to ~nother has fallPn. llwcausP of the abuse I speak of here. Noth10g can be gaint-d by {'XchangP with a fellow human being. W~at is essential_ is containPd within a man from birth, and can be discovered by 10­IPntlv im·t•stigating the sphPre within. It is a waste of energy and totaliy inPfficiPnt for a man to engage in the archaic traditions of thP convPrsation. ThP ritual of considering what we have to say to our fpllow man has fal!Pn into disuse. and I say "amen" to it. The nPw dawn of man will be a time when what we have to say to our fPllow man can bP predetermined. 
I propose a project which will lead to the development of a new systPm of Pxchange. which is a true response to the state of the conversation today. 
A packet of cards shall be designed for use by the citizenry. Each packpt will contain five categories of twPnty cards each, the concPrn of which will be determined by the citizen's computerized lifestyle assessmPnt. . . . 
Lt>t us take a typical case: A student leader 10 a large Umversity, dedicatPd followPr of fashion, female, concerned with her career and stPPring c!Par of involvemPnt with males outside of superficial 
contact. 
AftPr a computerized assessment of who she will be conversing with. wP can prepare the packets. Once she receives the packets, shP will nevPr have to say another unnecessary word. All she need do is hand one of the cards to her would-be conversant as she passes thPm by in hPr rush to get great student-leader type things done. 
Onp packet could concern a conversation with a person whose namt-shP does not rempmber. "Hey, how are you? Gee, it sure was nPat at <name of some place they both frequent)'s, wasn't it?" AnothPr card could read: "Haven't seen you in a while. Well, gotta go." Still anothPr could read: "How are you?" 
AnothPr packPt could concern deep student-leader issues. St>vPral could concern themselves with phrases such as: "Gee, studPnts arP so apathetic nowadays, you can't get them excited ovPr anything." <ThPre are many variations on this motif in the 
studPnt IPadPr packet.> Another card could say: "Gee, working on thP concPrts like this is really neat. Now we can see some really good stars like NPil Diamond and Alice Cooper." Still another could rPad: "How are you?" 
ThP most important packet in this woman's deck wouuld be the onp that aids hPr in maintaining supPrficial relationships, since shP cannot get attached to anyone and still remain viable in the comp!Px workings of the studt>nt political machine. One card could rPad: "I think you're attaching a little too much to the rPlationship." <This one is a good response to an invitation to a cokp or a hamburger.) Another could read: "Let's just keep this friPndly." Still another could read: "How are you?" 
This pxample should give you an idea of the system I am proposing. RPmember that this is no crackpot scheme, but an anticipation of what will be made necessary by the further abuse of the orifice by men. Let us now be~in to talk without words! 
------------the observer 
Night Editor: AI Rutherford! Editorials: John Amantea, 
Ass't Night Editor: Martha Jim Eder Fanning Features: Tom O'Neil Layout Staff: Karllee Clark, Susie Sports: Bill Brink 
Halphhen, Maureen Sajbel, Tom Typists: Jim Landis, Rick Huber, 
Sheridan Mary Tobin, Ann Peeler Day Editor: Maureen Flynn, Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz 
Mary Egan Night Controller: Howard Halle 
Copy Reader: Bob Radziewicz, Late . Typist: Dave Rust 

P. 0. Box Q 
Why Didn't 
She Close 
Her Eyes? 
Ut•a•· Editor: 
I am writing in regards to the 
letter written by a girl. <she had lwr namP withheld upon request) from Farley Hall. who witnessed the "streak" by Notre Dame men through her dorm. I just have one question for her. if she was so · nauseated by the sight of all this pt•rversion. why didn't she just 
dose her t>yes? 
.\amt" \\ithht"ld upon ri'QUl"st 
Naked Realities 
Dl"ar Editor: 
To the "nauseated" Farley 
resident, I wish to point out that 
being a "liberated woman" entails 
much more than equal job op­
portunities and seeking ad­
mittance to law and med school. If 
woman is to alter this "man's 
world" to a "person's world", then 
certain naked realities must be 
faced on the road to liberty. There 
is, unfortunately for the Farley 
resident and others like her, the 
accompanying sexual element-­
honest, aboveboard, unprudish 
sexuality <see 1\lS. Magazine). 
You see, Women's Liberation 
actually benefits men as well as 
women, although the male part is 
too often neglected. It is the hope 
of avid, male supporters of W.L., 
such as myself, that W.L. will 
convince certain "unlibbed" 
women <Catholics mainly> that 
certain parts of their anatomy are 
not lined with spiritual gold! But 
alas, it may be that a woman 
cannot be truly liberated and still 
cling to her Catholic morals <see 
Timt" April 28, 1975). 
The antics at Farley are child's 
play !see it for what it is, collt>gt' 
ribaldryl in comparison to what 
goes on at more progressive 
colleges. e.g. Stanford, Vassar, 
Welleslev. I'm sure the Farley 
resident· will be "nauseated" to 
learn that Stanford actually has 
dorms with co~ showers. <The 
very thought of people exposing 
themselves to each other ) I must 
admit that the sight of women 
running naked through my hall, 
exposing themselves at my door 
wouldn't upset me too much. But 
then, men have been liberated far 
longer than women! 
To learn that the "nauseated" 
Farlean actually existed, upset 
greatly my Post-Lib mind; I was 
so sure that Gloria Steinem <if not 
Germaine Greer) had finally 
obliterated the archetypal, 
Catholic woman! 
Indeed, Ms. Farley, Mom and 
Dad were wrong; there is no 
sanctuary in this liberated world 
from the naked realities of life, 
Pven at good old Catholic Notre 
Dame. As the jingle says: "\'ou'vt> 
t'Come a long way baby", but 
you've got a long way to go!" 
Edward Davis 
Fragments Of Reality 
Dear Editor 
The argument that Pat Kearns 
presented in his opinion column 
yesterday to convince us that co~ 
living proposal is not only un­
necessary but doubtless ly inspired 
by Satan <or the communists, or 
bothlissomewhatweak, to say the 
least. 
To begin with, Kearns refutes 
the claim that co~ living might 
improve commucication between 
the sexes by saying that, 
"somehow, generation after 
generation of our ancesto:-s have 
managed to fall in l~?ve, get 
married, and be blessed With many children without the aid of coeducational dormitories." The contention here, apparently, is that we need only look at the marvelous track record of previous generations with regard 
to marital stability to see that it is not going to help, because it is already obvious that marriage is doing just fine. Well, personally, I lwg to differ. Last I heard, the divorce rate for ND-smc marriages was somewhere on the order of one out of three. Upon closer examination, it seems that this shiny recard is considerably tarnished, expecially when one considers that this is allegedly a Catholic collt>gt>. Catholic as in no divorce, never. 
Next. proct>t>ding merrily on too the "less lofty" arguments, in an amazing display of logic, Kearns boils them down to two. According to Kearns, they are: 1) coed living is a conspiracy to get more dates, and 2) it would provide "ample opportunities for premarital sex." Bravo, I say if this wise person had not exposed these nefarious in­fluences for me, I might have gone on for years and years thinking that the only reason I made love to my wife before we were married was because I loved her, when the real reason was a subconscious desire to be a black-hearted demanor of the Christian ideal of sex. 
Let me illuminate a few fragments of reality for Mr. Kt>arns. Admittedly, there a misguided souls who go around "fornificating" <to quote a well­known campus authority) with everything in sight. However, there are also people leaving this place every year and marrying people they "know" on the basis of weekend dates, and a lot of them don't last very long together. Co­t>d living is not an answer tor all the problems, but I believe that it is certainly more than opportunity to copulate constantly and at random. Further, current literature in sociology and psychology indicates that if anything, there isless premarital sex in co-ed dorms, because it is a lot harder to rack out with someone you see at meals t>veryday if you just do it it with no commilmt>nl behind it. 
Finally, I seriously, very seriously in fact, question the validity of the claim that this particular institution holds any great esteem for the teachings of Christ. I've only touched on the points of Kearns' argument that were most glaringly baseless; I hope the rest of the community has the ability to see through the rest. I personally consider the rest to be so weak as to be trivial. 
Rick Walters 
Southeast Asia Spectre 
Dear Editor; 
Yesterday the President, who was recently honored by our university, went to another "safe" academic haven, Tulane in New Orleans, to declare the ending of the Indochina war "as far as America is concerned." The President went on to call for a great national reconcfliation and to declare that despite the sad­dening events in Dan Berrigan's l.and or Burning Babit>s, the U.S. would still lead the world if Americans will remove the yoke of polarized thinking. 
The President is really asking Americans to help him wash the blood of fifteen years of darkness off America's hands. He is saying that Vietnam is worthless now as a political pawn; it is a dead land. 
, He is asking us to get on with more important business, like working hard, spending hard, thinking less. But just as this Asian ghost would I not let Presidents Kennedy, Johnson, and Nixon go, it will not let go of Gt>rald Ford. America has attacheditself to a tiger. and 
, cannot let go. 
-IIEliiJOIHIC 

The shame brought to the United States, as well as big power politics may be found to be indelible, on­washable. The terror in the eyes of the soul , brou·ght to you in color by Time and Newsweek will always remain, soul scars. Every legless veteran, every deformed or mutilated child who happened to get in the way. every American of Vietnamese family that was ever fragmented by the events of the last fifteen years will reflect what the President so anxiously wants us to forget: that something had gone badly wrong for America, too many people were dying, especially Americans. 
Power is a drug we cannot kick. Like any good drug, however, it brings with it some very bad aspects along With its benefits, things like addiction. Is there some symbolism in the fact that the heroin produced in this region 
<S.E. Asia) of the world is the finest? What we unleasht>d there, and what Gerald Ford had a very big hand in during his congressional career, may well prove to be for America what the mycenaean laughter was for the Athenians, a fatal excess. It has certainly changed the face of America, perhaps also poisoned it, the way drug addiction eventually poisons the junkie's body. Only ten days ago the President asked Congress for half a billion dollars worth of military hardware and ammunition, so he could continue feeding Saigon's Habit, a habit P.resident Thieu seemed to make obt well on. He privately asked a commercial airline to fly $73 million in gold bullion to Geneva, Switzerland for him as part of his personal belongings, they 
demurred. Like the people of Southeast Asia. we too are different today. Everyone who witnessed Nazi Gt>rmany retains clear memories of it, some still wake up screaming in 1he night. It is part of our history now, a part of each one of us. Its affect on our future no one can say, but certainly no Presidential decree will make this spectre go away. 
Patrick Dillon 
Hypocrisy 
Ut•ar Editor: 
This isn't tht> first I ime I've seen blatant hypocrisy in the Ohsl"r\'t'r; I just haven't bothered to write in about it before. But the recent lellers concerning the gun show at tht> ACC prompted me to action. 
Now. I havt> no use for guns mvst>lf. but then again I had no use for advocatt>s of armt>d <as in rifles and pistols l revolution like .Stokely 
<'armichael and Angela Davis wht-n they wt>re invited on campus­-not by an amoral administration, hut by the santified student union' If I had shot my mouth off then. I suppost' I could justify doing it now. in the interest of consistency. But I didn'I. and neither did the two gentlemt•n who complained about the gun show. 
You can't have it both ways, right'' 
Alt>x \'nckovic. '77 
SO, 7rHJI<RIJIV I'M IJNVE/l/N6 MY NWHOVI£6()£RS A55!5TANC£ PIAN/ ITIVILL PROVI/JE Fl?££mY~F 11CI<ET5 FOR. Til& f/NEMPLOYUJ­10 IIEtP Tll£111 RJKGeT/ I'M r:AU/16 IT ''SIKXII-l!W, AHWCA!'' 
/IMT /)() 'rtJf/ T/1/NK? """",.....,.-..,. 
I 

·ap il:'ian !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Give Us A Chance 

To the girls of this campus, I'm writing these lines, AI timt-s I really wonder what goes on in your minds. E\·eryday in the Obst>n't>r for the past week I've read, Ilow all the mt•n of this campus just want you in bed. Now hold on there ladies.let's not get a big head, 
Is it more wishful thinking on your part than dread? Accusations of our "sickness" is all that I hear, 1lrw day wt• 'rt> called pt>rvt>rts and the next day, queers. Nnw I must stand up on the side of the men, Your libt>lous statemt>nts show an extreme lack of ken. Tht• "gt>ntlemen'' of this campus are easy to be found, If you'd open your eyt>s and just look around. ThPrP art> plenty of men looking for friends they can treasure, And not just an evening of sexual pleasurt'. So l'Omt• on then ladies and give us a chance, Tlwn• ·s much more to living than !hE" inside of your pants. 

r 10 the observer Friday, April 25, 1975
,, 
Prophecy disclaimed 
Psychic accused of arson 
,. 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. <UPil 
t -David Noble Bubar is used to the scoffers who doubt he can prroict fires and other t•vents. The cynics now include Thomas Duggan and Thomas 1\ll'Donnell, a couple of Jaw . forcers. 
Bubar. a Baptist minister and native of Blaine, Maine, whose last pastorate was in Stanton, TPnn.. was one of 10 persons l'hargPd in a ft>deral indictment 
WASHINGTON !UPil The !'(•ntagon says Hanoi has the !'apability to launch a massive altack "any minute," and the Stat!' llPpartml:'nt official run­ning lhP evacuation doubts he will ewr get the 125,000 \'it>lnamt•se hP is allowl:'d out of lhP country. 
Ambassador L. Dean Brown t·alled back from retirement last Thursday to head the t•vacuation task force, was askt'd at a State Dl:'partment nt>ws conference if he thought he could get 125,000 Vietnamese nut of Saigon. "I don't think wP'll rPach that," he said. 
A Pt>ntagon s p o k e s m a n, Army l\1aj. Gt>n. Winant Sidel, said North Vietnam has "the t'apability right now of mount­mg a massive attack. Some­thing could ·happen at any minutt>." But sPparating capabilities from intentions, he said intelligence reports do not show what Hanoi plans or'j Pxplain the thrt>e-day lull in the fighting.
., 
Around 
the country many · Amt>ricans interviewl:'d by UPI 1
·'· 
Thursday with the $14 million 
confronted with proof of psych­
March I dynamiting and fire at 
ic powPr. More often the
thP Sponge Rubber Products 
psychic himsPJf becomes the
Co. in Shelton. 

target of ridicule from those
Bubar. 47, who left the 
ministry  in  1969  to  "utilize  his  
astonishing  clairvoyant  abili­ 
liPs."  was  a .  consultant  and  

spiritual adviser to Charles D. l\lot>IIPr. IhP president of the SpPncPrville, Ohio, company that owns the Shelton plant. 
"Most people Pxpress a polite and distant incredulity when 
Hanoi seen capable 
•

of maSSIVe attack 
-· said they Wl:'lcoml:'d the refu­
gl:'t's. hut others wPre uneasy 
IVI:'r lhl:' prospect o( a massive 
mflux at a time of high 
unemployment. According to 
Immigration and Naturalization 
SPrvicP statistics, annual immi­
gration from all areas averages 
almost 400,000, and 125,000 
\'it>tnamPse would amount to 
four months' normal flow. 
llousP and Sl:'nate conferees mPanwhile approved a $327 million Vietnam aid bill. Sen. .Jacob Javits, D-N.Y., said the hill would allow U.S. troops to Pvacuate Vietnamese but only incidt>nlally to the rescue of Amt•ricans and only in areas where Aml:'ricans wl:'re being Pvacuatl:'d. 
That would permit a repeat of the Phnom Pl:'nh Pvacuation two weeks ago in which U.S. l\tarinl:'s securl:'d a helicopter landing zonl:' and took 276 AmPricans, Cambodians and third country nationas. 
Brown said the United States has t•vacuatl:'d about 14,000 \"ietnamPse and l:'xpects to keeptaking more out as fast as possibll:' by aircraft. 
Chicanos to present 
'I 
workshop and concert 
The Centro de Estudios Chicanos will present a workshop and concert, entitled "Cultural Diversity in Indiana: The Chicano Experience," today and tonight at Washington High School auditorium in South Bend. 
The afternoon session, which will last from 1:30 p.m. to 5:00 p.m., will consist of several discussions· and a "Teatro" workshop. The discussions will deal mainly with public policy decisions concerning the Chicano population. Speakers 
,, will include Jay Dolan, assistant professor of Ethnic and Urban History and Associate Prof. 
Adolph Soens, both of Notre Dame. 
The "Teatro" workshop will cover the topic "Chicano Theatre: Cultural Expressions and Historical Consciousness." 
The evening session, which .will begin at 8:00p.m. and end at 10:00 p.m., will be a musical by Daliel Valdes and compan,y called "El Corazon del Mestizo: The Chicano Struggle for Liberation." 
The objective of this program is to provide a forum for public discussion of the community needs created by recent Chicano migration and settlement in South Bl:'nd and throughout Indiana. 
* SMC COFFEEHOUSE* 
TONIGHT ! 

11:00 Gruff Coleman 
12:00 Frank Martin 
y'all come! 
THE BEER IS FLOWING 
AT KUBIAK'S FOR THE CLASS OF '77 
HAPPY HOUR TODAY, 3:30-6:30 
PITCHERS $1.50 
SPONSORED BY THE .NEWLY ELECTED ND & ~MC ClASS OFF~C~~~-___j 
whose mt>ntal powprs are still in tht> infant stage," says Rene Noorbt>rgt>n in his 1971 biogra­phy "You Are 
1 l'svchic,'" subtitled, "The ln­er~dibiP Story of David N. Bubar" Bubar "forPsaw" the Shelton fire in a conversation with a woman Pmploye at the plant a few days bt>forP it happened. !It• I urned aside all adverse suggPstions. telling newsmen later thP prediction rPsted solt>ly with his psychic powt>rs. But thP cynics prevailed. Duggan. who is the special agPnt in charge of the ConnPcticut FBI office, an­nounced Bubar's federal indict­own! along with that of his spiritual patron. Moeller. The indictemt•nt said Moeller paid Bubar's Soulht>rn Supply Co., of l\lt>mphis. Tt>nn., $50,000 in I'Pbruary and later in March. The ft>dPral i n d i c t m e n t ('hargPd Bubar with conspiracy and maliciously damaging or dt>stroying or attempting to dt>stroy "by mPans and use of PxplosivPs. that is dynamite, dl:'tonating of priml:'r cord and blasting caps the building locatt>d at Canal Street in Sh!'lton. Conn., known as Plant -l of thl:' Sponge Rubber Products Co." 1\ll'Donnell is a captain in the ('onnPclicut State Police De­parlmPnt who led the state's inwstigation into the blast. 
. 

----~-----~ 
IDJ~3J~~O:t · 
MISHA!f.AKA AJONUl At lOTH 

TONITE AT 6· 8 ·1 0 SAT. & SUN. AT 
2r4·6·8·1 0 

MON-THURS. 7-9 
ACADEMY AWARD 
WINNER 

BEST ACTRESS 
ELLEN BURSlYN KRIS KRISTOFFERSON 
~ 
UVEHERE 
ANYrv10RE 
, 

A TECHNICQOR ''" rnrn wARt£R BOOS. ,_ AWAANER CCJMMUN!~A;l()'6 CCM'ANY ~ 
WALSH HALL PRESENTS 
"GUYS & DOLLS" SUNDAY-7:30 
WALSH SOUTH LOUNGE 
-
ADMISSION 254 

BUY AN N.D. FOOTBALL RAFFEL TICKET TO BENEFIT THE HEART FUND. TICKETS AT THE DINING HALL OR JIM AT 1081 
I 
Semi-Formal 
· Benefit Dance 
Friday, 9:00-1:00 . 
l 
April 25 

Donations $5.00 per couple Stepan Center , Alt Proceeds Benefit Heart Fund "Put A Little Love In Your Heart" . 
MUSIC BY TALISMAN 


.. ~ 
the Royal Patrician 

'· 
/­
Both Keepsake. and Orange Blossom diamonds 


.c
,. 
·:~ 
10% discount 
J($t.PA1lzicion­
JEWELERS 
thP on(l' i••tn•lr_,. in th~ f'"liN" mitlu-t•!l U'llf•n• .l·ou "II Jitttl nil tlu• lu•ttl dinnwmh! 
olailv 'J '1il 9

orth Villa~•· Mall. IJ.S. :11 
Sunday no~lll 'til 5 
North at Darden Rd. 

KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 

PRESENTS 
"},~~ 

INFLATION EATERS FILM FEST 
THURS. APRIL 24 TALES OF TERROR & TELL TALE HEA FRI. APRIL 25 ROADRUNNER CARTOONS SAT. APRIL 26 PIT & THE PENDULUM 
Proceeds to 
&

Big Brothers 
TELL TALE HEART 

SUN. APRIL 27 
McHALE'S NAVY 

MON. APRIL 28 CRY OF THE BANSHEE & TELL TALE HEART 
7:30 . : 9:30 11:30 
25' REB.ATE.

ADMISSION· 1. 
React to outpourinq 
Refugees divide 
Glve me your tired, your poor, Your huddled masses yearn­ing to breathe free, The wretched refuse of your teeming shore, Send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed, to me... -Emma Lazarus, "The New Colossus," inscribed on the Statue of Liberty. 
Americans were sharply di­vided Thursday on how the "melting pot" of the world ~ should welcome an inpouring of 
refugees from Vietnam. 
Many who said the United States should throw open its arms were frankly worried how well homeless Vietnamese will adjust and what a massive influx would do to the nation's already acute unemploymentproblems. 
"We're supposed to be the melting pot," Thomas Camp­bell, 24, of Louisville, Ky., said. "I'm sure those refugees will be readily accepted." 
"I would certainly welcome 
them," Carol Sarna of Houston, 
Tex., said. "I don't know how 
they will adjust ... But I don't 
know where else they could 
go." 
But John Faltin of New York 
City said, "It seems we've got 
enough refugees here as it is." 
And Glen Owen of Lansing, 
Mich., said: 
"I'd burn a cross in their front yard if they moved next door to me." 
In a spot check in scores of communities from coast to coast, United Press Internation­al found opinions that ran the gamut from frank hostility to warm acceptance. 
Radio talk show announcer Joe Pickett of Indianapolis, Ind., who took a poll of his own, said his listeners appeared divided "about 50-50." 
"Lots of them said it's a humanitarian thing to do," he said. "About half said, 'Let's take care of our own first."' 
In New Jersey, where the unemolovment rlltP i!S above 10 
Americans 
_ per cent and unemploymentcompensation is reported on the brink of bankruptcy, Mrs. Rose Gutenkunst of Bridgeton asked: "If we can't get jobs, how are they going to support themsel­
ves? Our people have a right to jobs first." 
Carol Quinn, a law student at Emory University in Atlanta, Ga., said, "We owe it to the people who want to come. It's 
the  least  we  could do for  them  
after  what  we  did  to  their  
country."  

Miilwaukee, Wis., construe­lion worker Gerald McOwen said "humanitarian ideas are great," but quickly added: "This country supposedly has immigration laws and why should we lift them for the Vietnamese or any other nationality?" 
Almost in the shadow of the Statue of Liberty, Alphonse DeStefano of Brooklyn, N.Y., said: "They're human beings. How could you turn them down? They're going through hell." 
VietCong reject peace offer made by Saigon govern:rnent 
\ PARIS <UPI) -The Viet Cong's new chief executive. Provisional Revolutionary 
The Viet Cong spokesman saidGovernment Wednesday rejected Huong's offer on unconditionalSaigon's offer of an unconditional talks "come at a time when thecease-fire and peace talks as a U.S. 
puppet administration and army"maneuver" to stafe off South are driven into a lamentableVietnam's collapse. 
situation and while the Ford ad­
A PRG spokesman said Viet­ministration seeks by all means to namese Communists would QOt get from the Congress an urgent talk with South Vietnam's new military aid and the right to in­president, Tran Van Huoung, tervene with military forces under because Huong belonged to the the guise of an evacuation of "warmongering clique of Nguyen American residents. 
t Van Thieu in the payof the United 
"It is clear that this is merely a ""' -, States." maneuver of the Ford ad­Thieu resigned and Huong ministration aimed at shoring up succeeded to the presidency the Saigon puppet regime to Monday. prevent its collapse and to cover up neo-colonialist designs by peace
Nguyen Xuan Phong, South negotiations in order to win fromVietnam's negotiator at the stalled the Congress permission to con­political talks with the PRG, flew tinue the war."
to Saigon Wednesday. His office said he wanted to consult with the The PRG official reoeated a 
New US trade agreement underway with Romania 
WASHINGTON <UPI> approval in letters to the House !'resident Ford asked Congress and SPnate which were accom­Thursday to approve a new panied hy a copy of a 
trade agrefment giving Ro­presidential proclamation ex­
mania "most favored nation" lt>nding nondiscriminatory status in U.S. markets and 1rPa t mPn t for Homanian pro­representing a major effort to ducts ('Xported to the United Improve American relations States. with the communist nation. 
Hnmania has been regarded The pact was signed Ap~il 2 
as the most independent of the by representatives of the two 
Soviet Union's allies in foreign countries and the White House 
policy. Form{'r President Nixon said it was the first agreement 
visited Homania -the negotiated under trade reform 
rirst American president to lPgislation passed last year. 
trav{'l to an East European communist state since world Ford made his request for \\'ar IL 
·~ 
Friday, April 25, 1975 
the observer 1 1 
SUNDAY MASSES 


1637 Lincoln Way West· phone 232·6622 
Uhe WitWJammer 
Hair Care Center for the Sexes 
CONGRATULATIONS! ANOTHER YEAR IS ALMOST OVER. THE PROFESSIONAL STYLISTS AT THE WINDJAMMER WILL 
BE GLAD TO HELP YOU LOOK YOUR BEST FOR·GRADUATION'OR SUMMER 
WORK: WHY NOT CALL TODAY FOR JUST THE LOOK YOU WANT. ALL SERVICES BY APPOINTMENT SO THERE'S NEVER ANY WAITING 
warning there will be no halt to the Communist offensive unless all 
U.S. military technicians are with­drawn and an entirely new ad­ministration, dedicated to the 1973 Paris peace agreement, takes over in Saigon. 
Both North Vietnam and the PRG Tuesday rebuffed France's offer to help arrange an armistice and open immediate talks between the two belligerents. They said Washington was toying with the _idea of a last-minute military 
intervention. 
The PRG spokesman said, "This evidence is confirmed by the fact that the Ford Administration is massing a giant armada off South Vietnam's shores including four aircraft carriers and dozens of other warships, plus landing craft carrying important units of Marines." 
A statement from Hanoi, monitored here, said the dispat­ching of U.S. naval vessels to South Vietnam was "in fact a plot of the Ford administration to intervene militarily in South Vietnam with a view to preventing the collapse of its lackey." 
r ----------------~~ 
STEWART MCGUIRE SHOES 
With the Spring Step cushion 
DAD & FAMILY 503 N. Blaine Ave. :So. Bend 234-4469 
--'.. 

MAIN CHURCH  
5:15P.M.  SAT.  FR. ROBERT GRIFFIN, esc  
9:30 A.M.  SUN.  FR. LEN BANAS, CSC  
10:45 A.M.  SUN.  FR. JEROME WILSON, esc  
12:15 P.M.  SUN.  FR. TOM STELLA, CSC  

TIMM PARTY STORE 

OPEN Mon-Sat 9:00 A.M.-11 :00 P.M. Sun 12:00-11 :00 P.M. 
COLD BEER, WINE, GOURMET FOODS 
31145. 11th St. Niles, Mi. 683-9875 

SMC Social Commission 
presents 
Dr. Zhivago 
Carroll Hall 

6 & 9:30pm 
Madeleva 
Fri. April 25 Tickets -$1 .25 

Now, full scholarship assistance for your junior and senior years, plus chance to become a leader in the nuc:ear energy ·field. 
Tuition. books and educational fees are all included in this new NROTC Nuclear Propulsion Candidate program Along with $100 a month to help you wtth your living expenses And on top of that you have an opportunt!y to build a rewarding career for yourself in the fast-growing nuclear energy field 
To qualify. you must have completed one semester each of calculus and physics. or two semesters of calculus and have a B-average or better. 

'Depending upon your performance. you will be Inter­viewed during your senior year for the Navy's Nuclear Program and for training as a Navy Nuclear Officer 
If you can qualify for the demanding yet rewarding nuclear field you can anticipate five years of employ­ment as a regular Navy officer. 
For full details on this new NROTC Nuclear Propulsion Candidate program. phone or see your local Navy recruiter 
Be someone special in the Navy. 
Lt. Schaffer NROTC Unit Telephone 6442 

•· ~··­l
"':
" 
: ) 
:. 1 
' I ' ~ 
j\ ~ 
' ~ 


... ' 
.. 
.''.-l 
I'
; 

., 
..-•·. 
( ~ 
) ,' 

f 
Friday·, April 25, 1975
12 the observer 
_Demands for minorities 
Students occupy building· 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. <UPI) ­Black and Latin American students seized the main administration building of Brown University Thursday to demand a better deal for minorities on the campus of the 211-yt>ar-old Ivy League institu­tion. 
About 500 other students, including several hundred white sympathizers, ringed the buil­ding. a national historical landmark built in 1770. At times they sat on the wet grass in silt>nt vigil and at other times clapped and chanted "Black vt>rsus Brown." 
About 40 students occupied the building without incident at 
8:10 a.m. t>ight workers inside left when the demonstrators t>ntered. but two college deans stayed voluntarily. A spokes­man said there would be no damage to property. A security guard said the doors to all offices, including that of Presi­dent Donald F. Hornig, were locked. 
A list of 21 demands aimed at upgrading the status of, minori­ties on the faculty and in the student body was read by William Jackson, a blue-jean clad spokesman standing on the front steps of the four-story brick building. Above him, an t>ffigy hung by its neck from a third floor window. He said it represented a black student being oppressed. 
Among the demands were calls for complete legal and academic amnesty for the demonstrators; for a greater proportion of black students to be admitted; and increased 
SANTA ROSA, CALIF. <UPI) ­Sheriff Don Striepke said Wed­nesday he believes the "Zodiac" killer is obsessed with witchcraft and may have murdered up to 40 women in four western states so their "spirits can serve him in an afterlife." 
The mysterious Zodiac killer has cla1med he killed 37 persons in the San Fransico Bay area in recent years, though police have con­firmed only six. 
Striepke and Det. Erwin Carlstedt said they developed their theory after studying the deaths of six girls killed here over a period of two years and a Seattle case in which the remains of seven young women were found. · 
"They had a psychological profile done up there on their suspect, and you can take it and almost overlap it with ours down here," Carlstedt said. 
Carlstedt said "there is no doubt i~ my min~" that the same man killed t~e _six wome~ here a~d the seven victims found m Washmgton State. 
financial help for blacks and Latinos. 
"We are going to occupy the building until the university agrees to our demands," said Jackson. "We demand that our proposals be responded to." 
Maurice Glicksman, dean of the graduate school, began mt>eting with Organization of United African Peoples re­presentatives after the takeo­vt>r, the administration said. The school has 5,120 students. 
The two administrators inside wt>re identified as Tom Bechtel, acting dean of the college, and James Kelley, dean of fresh­men, both of whom were said to be well liked. Richard Marker, a Jewish chaplain, also remained in the building as an observer for the American Civil Liberties Union. 
Students at the school boycot­ted classes last week in support of alternative budget demands. The administration's proposed budget was passed without change at a meeting of the Board of Trustees Saturday. 
Black students claim the tight budget will affect scholarships for the needy and the admission of minorities. 
Measles outbreak seizes Notre Da1ne 
by Fred Ht>rbst staff reporter 

Many students have developed cases of the three-day measles over the past few days. As of today, there were 13 cases of measles confined to the Notre Dame Student Infirmary with a number of other cases in student dorms. 
Dr. Robert Thompson, of the Infirmary, stated that the sickness will cuntinue to spread in all probability. T-hompson stressed that students can take no precautions to prevent the sickness other than avoiding contact with individuals known to have the measles. 
Zodiac killer believed obsessed! 
A symbol from ancient English witchcraft was found at a remote site here where the bodies of three young women were found, he said. 
The symbol was two rectangles connected by a line, formed by twigs, with two stones lying inside one of the rectangles. 
Striepke said the symbol 0!1Ce was put on the hearth of homes of the deceased in England to "speed the deceased to the afterlife." 
He said that the Zodiac killer had written of his intended random victims as "slaves I will collect for my afterlife." 
Carlstedt said he sees striking similarities between some 28 unsolved murders of girls and women aged 12 and 24 over the past several years in Northern California. 
He also said he believes the killer may be leaving a trail of bodies that traces the letter "Z" over several western states, running from San Francisco and Santa Rosa to Seattle, then crossing down through Salt Lake City to Vail, Colo. He said if the theory is 
correct, the killer's trail will move : il'7' north from Vail. * M/SHAWAKA .;: Seattle police, who have sent 11 lt-! detectives to study the Sonoma * il County killings, say they have been ~ FRIDAY & SATURDAY !
unable to establish any direct ...-'7' connection between the two cases. * il
pR & 

Homicide inspectors in San : A I L 25 26 ! 
Francisco, where four alleged * il 
;odiac tkillings ~a~e occufr~~·! 9:00P.M. to 1:30 A.M. ! th~:~Yn~f ~r:~:r:iller0 i~c~eJr Sa~ ! ! 
Francisc~ ki.lli~gs that Striepke
mcludes m his hst. . "I just can't go that strong with
It," Inspector AI Podesta said. 

Carlstedt says many of the victims appeared to have been killed in one place and then thrown off a roadside by a very strong person. The bodies of five of the six Sonoma County victims were 
disposed of in that fashion, he said. Carlstedt went to Salt Lake City Tuesday to study the apparentlyrandom killing of two young women there and planned to go to Grand Junction. Vail, and Aspen, Colo., to Santa Fe, N.M. to in­vestigate similar killings. 
,---------------------------------------,i 
OPEN HOUSE• 
1 BoPollgbI Sailboats I FOR CANOES AND 
I KAYAKS THIS SAT IIAPRIL 26 9:00-5:00_~~--~~··> 
.. y '\
I RUSS OLDFATHER Ji.,..~ 1 WILL BE ON HAND TO·\ .._-.·I HELP YOU SELECT A t ' 1 CANOE OR KAYAK FOR THE FIFTH ANNUAL 1 'ST. JOE RIVER RUN MAY lOth 
II 225 DIXIE WAY NORTH, SOUTH BEND BETWEEN 
I. 

by witchcraft in ritual murdersiTHE REGAL LOUNGE~ 
* NO COVER CHARGE I il
* • .;: *********'************* ***************.;: 
GRAND OPENING 
52044 U.S. 31 NORTH 5011 WESTERN AVE. ·INDOOR DINING 
•
NEW MENU ITEMS 

•
FAST, FRIENDLY SERVICE ·SPECIALS 


99~er-2 pes CHICKEN & FIXIN'S $2.99-9 piece THRIFT BOX* 
•At all South Bend & Mishawaka stores thru April 27. 1975. 
·FREE FLYING SAUCERS 
Get a FREE Flying Saucer, thru April 27 1975 
with the purchase of a Bucket or Bar~el of 
"finger lickin' good" (R) chicken at our new 
stores listed in this ad. 
Ktatu~ fried CkiektK® 


1 . , A~~. H~RDW~RE AND MARTY's SEAFOOD 232-9801 -. 
· 

,.___________________________________~~~~·.:.~;1 
. ;_ ,· CAtER-lNG·fOR-ALL OCCASIONS 

~--------------~--------~ 
Jl 
Friday, April 25. 1975 
the observer 13 

Southeast Asia''chess game'ends 
WASHINGTON <UPI> -The House Armed Services Commit­tee, one of its members contending the "chess game is over" in Indochina, Tuesday rejected 21 to 17 President Ford's request for $722 million in military aid to South Vietnam. 
The measure, which would have authorized $422 million in addition to the $300 million approved last year but never appropriated, was shoved aside on a motion by Rep. G.V. Montgomery, D-Miss. 
Government suggestsnew water allocation controls· 
A supporter of the military aid plan, Rep. Samuel Stratton, D-N.Y., argued that "unless there is some signal of support for South Vietnam, they are going to collapse, and the lives of Americans there are going to be in jeopardy." 
But Rep. Robert C. Leggett, D-Calif., said: "This chess game is over. I think we ought to let it end without appropriat­ing another dime." 
The action came as debate on a contingency evacuation and humanitarian aid plan con­tinued in the Senate, where 
WASHINGTON <UPI) Water prices may skyrocket and powerful energy industries may outbid farmers for limited supplies if price alone is allowed to determine who gets water in the future, experts warned Thursday. 
New government allocation controls will be necessary, they told the National Conference on 
Water,  to  assure  a  fair  
distribution  of  vital  water  
resources.  

Assistant Interior Secretary Jack 0. Horton said his agency, already aware of the problem, has adopted water policies giving top priority to food production. He said energy industries now must rely on "surplus water" for expansion. 
Horton acknowledged, )owe­ver. that the U.S. drive end the energy shortage ml1ht cause that to change in the future. 
"If we don't do something about the water situation, I think you can look down the road about 20 years and see marketing of water -pricing ­something like we see in natural gas today," said South Dakota Gov. Richard F. Kneip. 
"Unless we do more at the local, state and federal level, we all are going to suffer." 
Competition for water be­tween agriculture and energy production -made all the more serious by the new demands . that will be placed on U.S. water supplies by virtually 
every type of expanded energy production -proved a major concern of conference par­ticipants. 
Other issues raised in the closing session of the three-day, meeting included charges that many federal water programs are a failure and demands that state and local governments be given a larger voice in policy making. 
"The resistance to expanding the federal role is increasing," said Kneip, who headed a panel on the role various levels of government should play. 
The conference, sponsored by the cabinet-level U.S. Water Resources Council, was the first of its kind in 15 years. It drew experts from across the nation to consider relationships between water and energy, food, environment, flood dama­ge, transportation, industry and government. 
Gilbert White of the Universi­ty of Colorado, head of a panel on flood damage reduction, criticized the "delinquent" per­formance of federal agencies charged with water policy responsibilities. He said even the Water Resources Council was not doing its job. 
Similar criticism came from Laurence R. Jahn of the Wildlife Management Institute, head of a seminar on environ­mental issues, who said federal agencies and regulations pay too little attention to the need for environmental planning. 
Collective bargaining discussed at Notre Dame 
The Executive Committees of the American Association of University Professors <AAUP> and the Faculty Senate met last night at the University Club to discuss the issue of collective bargaining and how it might relate to circumstances at Notre Dame. The program consisted of viewing a video-eassette tape on collective bargaining prepared by the 
National AAUP and discussing the contract negotiated by the AAUP at T<•mple llniversity. 
The tape, entitled '"The AAUP and Collective Bargaining in Higher Education," presented a discussion on the topic between Joseph Duffy, the General Directo-r of Collective Bargaining. 
Secretary  of  the  AAUP  and  
Woodley  Osborne  ,  the  AAUP's  
--~  

According to Edward Trubac, local chapter president of the AAUP, they stressed that the "'industrial model" of collective bargaining was inappropriate for higher education and indicated that collective bargaining should instead be concerned with such issues as academic freedom and due process. They maintained that AAUP policy sees collective bargaining as a voice in matters of educational policy and faculty status. 
Osborne cited the Temple contract, with its emphasis on peer evaluation and mechanisms for resolving faculty-administration disagreements, as one of the best contracts negotiated at a major university. 
'"·~ 
WIJt C!tnlonial Jlanrakt ifnusr 
·'Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
w:=:::~!:::::::::::::::m:::::::~~=~:!:::w:::::::::::-<«-~<1 :~; 35 Varieties of Pancak_es ~~ :::~Chjcken -S~eaJ< -_Sandwiches.~~ 
t:~~:~&:!~::~=~=:~::!:::~~~~ 
U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North (Across from Holiday Inn), ·t:sob Edwards, NO
-· .... . ~-....-j --• 
Democratic Leader Mike Mans­field expressed concern about the high ratio of South Vietnamese to Americans being taken out of the country. 
Following the House Armed Services Committee action, Mansfield announced that a final , vote on the contingency measure would be delayed at least until Wednesday. Speaker Carl Albert said the same was true of a House measure to authorize $347 million in eco­nomic and humanitarian aid to South Vietnam. 
Leaders in both houses said they wanted to hold off action until they are assured that substantially more Americans have been removed from Saigon. 
At the White House, Republi­can congressional leaders said after having breakfast with Ford that the President assured them Americans staying behind in Vietnam were being kept to the "barest minimum number." 
Sen. Clifford Case, R-N.J., quoted the President as saying "about 1,500 Americans would be left in Saigon by this evening to carry on a skeleton operation." 
The measure before the Senate would give the President limited authority to use U.S. 
Kuwait delagate: 
Sayegh to speak I on Palestinians 
Dr. Fayex Sayegh, a member of the delegation of the State of Kuwait to the United Nations and the Palestinian National Council will be on campus Wednesday, April 30, at 8 p.m. in Washington hall to speak about the Palestinian 
dilt>mma His discussion, entitled "Palestinian Factor and the Prospects of Peace in the Middle East," will investigate the plight of the Palestinian refugees and offer suggestions on ways peace bet­Wt>en Isreal and the Arabs could be achieved. 
Sayegh's involvement with the Palestinians dates backthrough the 1950's holding posts such as President of the Palestine Arab Congress. He was a member of the Executive Committee of tht> Palestine Liberation Organization in 1965 and 1966. And he as been a m<·mbPr of the National Council since 1970. Sayegh has also held professorial posts at Stanford, Yale, Macalester and the American University in Beruit. 
FROM NOW UNTIL FINALS, YOU'LL BE STUDYING. TAKE A BREAK FOR 
DEEP DISH PIZZA 
troops for evacuation of Ameri­cans and certain friendly Vietnamese, along with $100 million for that purpose and a like amount for humanitarian aid to South Vietnam and Cambodia. 
Congressional concern that Americans might be trapped by the continuing Communist of­fensive has been the key factor in growing teluctance to pump any more funds into South Vietnam except for non-mili­tary purposes. 
This sentiment raised consid­erable doubt whether the House would go along with its Appropriations Committee, which Monday approved $165 million in military aid and $165 in economic assistance to South Vietnam. 
Mansfield, meantime, said he was disturbed by reports that as many as 10 to 20 Vietnamese were being evacuated from Saigon for every American. "I am sympathetic toward the Vietnamese," he said, "but my first concern happens to be my own countrymen." 
Rep. Elizabeth Holtzman, D­N.Y., said Assistant Secretary of State Phillip C. Habib told a closed meeting of Democrats Monday that evacuation of Americans is being delayed to ensure a large number of South Vietnamese also will get out. 
"By using the Americans in South Vietnam to guarantee safe passage of 175,000 Viet­namese," she said, "then we are indeed keeping them there as hostages." 
available April 18-27 an lp recording of 
SCOTT JOPLIN· RAGS 

performed by William Cerny chairman ND Music Dept. proceeds to The Music Scholarship Fund 
on sale at the Huddle in residence halls in 248 O'Shag for $4 
SMC Social Commission 
presents 
Dr. Zhivago 
Carroll Hall 

6 & 9:30pm 
Madeleva Fri. April 25 Tickets -$1 .25 
''THE PAN'' DEEP DISH PIZZA 
for the 
N.D. & S.M.C. COMMUNIT_Y 
IT'S AS CLOSE AS YOUR PHONE 
~77-1221 or 277-1222 
FREE DELIVERY 
on or off-campus -also quick pickup service 

107 DIXIEW A Y NORTH • JUST NORTH 




~~~----~~ ­
--~-~-------·---­
14 the observer Friday, April 25, 1975 
Closing· in on Saigon 
Refugees flown to Guam 
Military and civilian tran­sport planes flew into Guam almost hourly Thursday, bring­ing thousands of American and Vietnamese fleeing the Commu­nist advance toward Saigon. 
The planes landed 75 to 200 evacuees at a time on the 30­mile-long Pacific Ocean island, a U.S. territory. For every one American, there were about 20 Vietnamese. 
Pentagon sources said intelli­gence reports indicated Com­munist troops had moved surface-to-air missiles to almost within range of Saigon, raising a new threat to the airlift. 
The Soviet-made SAM mis­siles could close Saigon's Tan Son Nhut Air Base-and the airlift-if Communist antiair­craft teams get to within 20 miles of the capital. 
A F o r d administration spokesman in Washington said 5,000 persons a day are being flown out of Saigon and there are enough aircraft to handle double that number, if the U.S. Embassy in Saigon can clear potential evacuees. 
The Vietnamese and Ameri­cans are now arriving at Guam's Andersen Air Force Base, the launching point for born bing attacks on Indochina during the U.S. military in­volvement in Southeast Asia. 
U.S. congressional sources estimated there were 6,000 Americans in Vietnam before the airlift, which began almost two weeks ago and moved into high gear this week. 
President Ford had ordered the number of Americans in South Vietnam reduced to less than 1,000, a figure considered small enough to get out quickly if Saigon falls to a sudden Communist attack. 
A U.S. Embassy source in Saigon said the number of "official" Americans in South Vietnam would be down to "around 500" within 24 hours. 
In Washington, L. Dean Brown, the President's director of the relief effort, said about 12,000 refugees, including 3,500 Americans, have been flown 
Terrorists bomb 
German Embassy 
BONN <UPI) -The West German government withheld comment Thursday on Chancel­lor Helmut Schmidt's decision to turn down demands by terrorists who took over and later blew up the German embassy in Stockholm with hostages inside. 
"We're not saying anythingjust yet," a government spokes­man said. "It's possible we'll have something to say a bit later." 
Schmidt, a Social Democrat, had set up a special "crisis staff" to debate what to do about the guerrilla demands. 
Sources in the opposition Christian Democratic party said the government was likely to make a statement in parliament Friday explaining its decision to reverse previouspolicy and take a tough stand. 
Schmidt had called together the leaders of all four main political parties at his office for what a government spokesman termed a "crisis conference at the highest level." 
Government officials likened the conference to the "crisis staff meetings" Schmidt set upduring the six days urban guerrillas held West Berlin mayoral candidate Peter Lor­enz captive last month. 
West Berlin police at the time of Lorenz' release issued arrest warrants for Luther and Vogel, thought to be members of the "June 2 Movement" that claimed responsibility for the abduction. 
The June 2 Movement is a Berlin faction of the Baader­Meinhof guerrilla gang, whose leaders, Ulrike Meinhof and Andreas Baader, are impris­oned and were on the list of captives the Stockholm attack­~rs wanted freed. 
from Saigon to Guam or Clark Air Base in the Philippines. 
Reporters at Guam said, however, that in the past few days far more Vietnamese than Americans have arrived. 
As many as 130,000 South Vietnamese and Cambodian refugees could be authorized to enter the United States. 
Brown said that as of Wednesday night there were still 1,681 Americans in Saigon: 813 government employes, 405 contractors and related wor­kers, 284 of. various occupations and 179 American dependents. 
The embassy source in Saigon said numerous Ameri­cans were arriving in the beleaguered capital every day. Many were Vietnamese who now hold U.S. citizenship and were returning to try to help relatives, friends and fiancees out of the country. 
Some were civilian contrac­tors who previously worked in Vietnam and came back from as far away as Alaska, Saudi Arabia and Zaire to pick up waiting wives or marry girl friends they left behind. 
Despite the airlift, a backlog of around 1,000 persons still remained in the main Saigon staging area for the emergency evacuation operation, an area dubbed "Pentagon East." 
Commercial aircraft of sever­al airlines leaving Saigon for Hong Kong, Singapore, Bang­kok, Manila and other points all appeared fully booked, or nearly so. 
The Senate and House ap­proved separate plans to provide up to $327 million for refugee relief and for limited use of troops to evacuate Americans and South Viet­namese from Saigon. 
Guam Gov. Ricardo Bordallo predicted as many as 130,000 Vietnamese refugees could be brought to Guam, an island of nearly 87,000 people, in the next few weeks. 
The airlift was first directed to Clark Air Base in the Philippines. But 4,000 evacuees arrived there Tuesday to bring the total number at Clark to 7,000, some living in tents when the movie theaters, dormitories and other buildings were filled. 
Co~nrnunist forces control Can1bodia 
By United Press International 
Communist-led Khmer Rougeforces Thursday claimed to have all of Cambodia under control but refugees continued to pour across the border into Thailand. One group said Khmer Rouge border guardskilled 25 refugees trying to escape. 
Moslem refugees fleeing to Thailand told Thai officials Khmer Rouge forces opened fire on them as they crossed the border and killed at least 25 of their comrades. 
District officials at the Thai town of Aranyaprathet on the frontier said 412 Moslems had crossed the border in two groups, some of them traveling at night. 
One of the caravans came under fire when the Moslems commander Gen. Kris Sivara said the insurgents, who seized Phnom Penh last Thursday, had fired on a Thai reconnais­sance plane flying along the border on an inspection tour. 
ignored from the  orders to border.  move  back  
Earlier  Thursday,  Thai  army  

The plane was not hit, but Thai border patrolmen fired into Cambodia when they heard the shooting. Kris said that he had issued orders to command­ers to do everything they could to avoid shooting incidents. 
Inside Cambodia, three days of celebrations and mourning was begun by the rebels after five years of warfare as Phnom Penh Radio announced that the entire country had been "liberated." 

...... 
FRONTIER 
DRIVE-IN 
ON STATE ROAD 23 BETWEEN KROGER'S AND THE DISTILLERY 
THIS WEEKEND FEATURING


WARM ATMOSPHERE GOOD PEOPLE QUIET LITURGY SUFFICIENT SUPPER. TONIGHT 
& 
EVERY FRIDA'( 
5 PM 
BULLA SHED 

············•··•·················································. 
SKYDIVING 
AT 

OX BOW AIR SPORTS CENTER 
CLASSES START APRIL 26th 

& ALSO EVERY SATURDAY GROUND SCHOOL & JUMPING INCLUDED IN ONE LOW PRICE 
MAKE FIRST JUMP SAME DAY 
THIS AD WORTH $5.00 

.
.
MIDWAY AIRPORT BETWEEN ELKHART .
.
.
& GOSHEN ON U.S. 33 .
. 
·································································· 


f: COME RAIN OR SHINE TO TOWN & COUNTRY FOR YOUR FAVORITE 
WINES-LIQUORS 
Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM 
Canadian LTD 
BLEND . . . . . . . 5th 
Usher's Green Stripe 
SCOTCH ......  5th  
Early Times BOURBON  5th  
Canada DryVODAK .......  5th  
Boston House  

GIN. . . . . . . . . . 5th 
410 
5
75 3
5
39 95 
401 
Jose CueRo 
TEQUILA 
American 5 Star 
BRANDY 
Ron Querida 
RUM ......... Galliano Italian 5548 LIQUEUR ... 12-oz. Arak Ruouk 752 LIQUEUER ... 2o-oz. 
FREE DELIVERY 

.. 


....'. .
·,·_.:. ;·. ,-·.4:·. I I' 
.' 

Friday, April 25, 1975 the observer 15 
In the Swedish capitol 
West Germany's refusal met with explosions 
STOCKHOLM UPI -Guerrillas the 1ni tial assault on the embassy;
holding hostages in the West and another hostage may have 
German embassy in the Swedish been killed before the bombing.
capital blew up the building in a Swedish police said they· had series of explosions hours after the 
arrested five suspected guerrillas, West German government refused but shooting continued an hour and 
to free 26 of their jailed comrades. 40 minutes after the initial ex­plosions at 11:45 p.m.Police said they feared con-ll: 4sp.m. E.DT. Police said they siderable loss of life. At least two suspected that more than the persons were killed in the born-original five guerrillas were in­:• bine:: a militarv attached _died in volved in the raid. 
.,.N D Basketball marathon ..runs through Wednesday 
After 27 hours of play, in the Notre committee would appreciate the Dame Basketball Marathon for return of these items since the muscular distrophy, the Yellow marathon is a charity event, annd Team was trouncing the Green the committee cannot afford to Team by a score of 1897 to 1748 on replace the equipment and the bookstore courts. The uniforms. marathon of hoops which began at 
noon on Wednesday April 23, will continue through Wednesday, · April 30. 
"Everything is running pretty smoothly so far. If the weather would only cooperate." stated Tom Schnellenberger. 
According to Kevin Saddler, people who are playing should report to the bookstore courts, and instructions will be posted there if the game has been moved. 
In the kickoff on Wed., Sam Smith of WSBT tossed up the first ball. Varsity players who par­ticipated in the kickoff included Adrian Dantley, Bill Drew, Ray 
Martin. Bill Paterno, Toby Knight, 
HERE'S ADOLLAR 

· Duck Williams, Dave Baton, and Tom Varga. 
FOR YOUR HEAD. 

(. 
The marathon committee reported that a few jerseys and a ·'P'basketball have been taken. The 
FOR APPOINTMENT CAll
Ford over Reagan 
255-8600 

NEW YOHK tUPil -In a trial heat for president among Ht•publicans and independents. !'resident Ford bt.>at forml'r California tiov. Honald Reagan hy a margin of 7 per cent, pollster Louis Harris said 
~oday. 
WANTED 
Need ride to Dayton. Call 1200. 
Riders wanted: leaving May 12 for Bethesda. MD. Returning to NO campus on 16th for graduation. 283· 6309. Call late. 
One girl needs housemates to live off campus for the next school year. 284· 4828. 
Management Trainee 
To $14.000 
Ready for a new career? We are 
interviewing tor a management 
training program that will allow you 
to earn $25,000 or more in 5 years 
while representing our top team of 
financial specialists in Equities. 
Insurance. Mortgages and Tax 
Shelters. Send your resume to 
Charles M. Newbanks 
120 w. LaSalle Suite 906 
South Bend. 1N 46601. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh area this weekend. April 25. Will share ex penses. Call Lorretta, 8007. 
Need ride to NYC area (L.I.) first weekend in May. Will share ex­penses and driving. Call Gregg at 1612. 
Need ride to Chicago this weekend. Call Mary. 4537. 
Need ride to Boston (Framingham) after exams. Call Jim, 8504. 
Part-time job . freshman or sophomore to become Greyhound campus representative. Call Tom, 272-1807. 
Help wanted: students for light office work and telephone sales, salary and commission. Apply 224 
w. Jefferson. corner of Lafayette St., room 313. 
Students for light delivery, excellent pay. A.A.A. Advertising, apply 224 
W. Jefferson. corner of Lafayette St. Room 313. 
Need ride to Ann Arbor or East Lansing today. April 25. Call Ron. 3306. 
FOR SALE 
Hotel accomodation for Friday, May 16. Call 6980. 
1972 Mercury Monterey, ·4 drive, custom oower · air qold wiltl vinyl top best offer. Pho·"· 288 1608 after 
5. . 
Police entered the building at safd the guerrillas tried 'to . • flee 
12:40 a.m. and started searching it the building through the back door room by room for guerrillas and and exchanged gunfire from hostages. Some hostages were still behind parked cars with oolice inside the building and could be 
·trying to cut off their escape.
heard wailing and screaming. 
There was no word on the fate of West German Ambassador 
Ambulances rushed away from Dietrich Stoecher. the scene of the bombing packed "The place is in chaos," UPI with people and a Hospital was set reporter Barbra Larson said. up in the nearby Norwegian em­"People are jumping from win­bassy on Stockholm's embassy dows under heavy shooting." row. 
The street was hulled in 
The explosions were . set off darkness as the explosions blew shortly after the guerrillas out street lights over an entire released three women hostages block. One policeman was injured unharmed. At that time, eight or in the blasts. nine hostages and five guerillas Relatives of the hostages who 
CRB master stylists 

HAIR CARE FOR MEN 
TOWN & COUNTRY MINI-MALL I MISHAWAKA. INO. 46544 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
1Germany hours before wept hysterically when they saw the ·building go up in flames and were 

led !?,.y poljc~ 
BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY 
Good Potential Income No Age Barrier Full or Part Time Contact D. A. Doxie SOl N. Blaine Ave. South Bend, IN ( 219) 234-4469 

were believed still inside. 
had arrived in Stockholm~fr~o:m~..JI!-B~~~~~~~~~~~
Some of the hostages were seen 
jumping from windows as the four­ft.>aturt" times; I :45 3:45, 5:45 7:45 AND story yellow brick struc:ture was !1:45. engulfed by flames. Eyewitnesses Sl1PPOSE YOU KNEW WHO YOU 
Miami s. Ireland Rd. IIAO BEEN IN YOUR I'HE\"IOl'S I.IFE. \\"HERE YOl! IIAO 1.1\'ED... WHOM Yot· II \1) 1.0\"l·:n .\~I> 110\\' Ynt'IIAD 011.:0. \\11:\T TIIEl'O? 
• 
Cut out the dollar. br~ng tl w••h you when you come 1n for your h01r styfmg, ond we H toke SI off your b11l. 'Not only do you save a bud<. but the gtrls ore going to n~oke you look great ond you get to practiCe your cut·outs What o 
deol 
THE BIKE RACK 
TUNE-UP NOW FOR SPRING 
PARTS & SERVICE ON 
ALL AMERICAN AND 
FOREIGN-MADE BIKES 

LOCATED ONE BLOCK EAST OF THE DISTillERY ON RD. 23 IN GREENWOOD SHOPPING CTR 
OPEN 9:30-6:30 DAILY MONDAY·SATURDAY 277-1391 
Two Alice Cooper tix . 4th row, at cost. Mike. 1850. 
Pioneer PL 51 turntable with Audio Technica AT-12S cartridge. $180 or best offer. Call Ed, 1389 or 1487. 
Bar with built-in refrigerator. Beg inner golf clubs with carrier. Auto 8 track tape with 4 speakers and in-out mount, needs minor repair. To highest bidder. Gil, 1060. 
Stereo for sale. Desperately need the money . best offer takes all. Steve, 1403. 
Olds Cutlass '67, small engine, good mileage, 8-track tape: $500. New Remington 12-gauge pump magnum: $120. Call 284-4008 or 234­8679. 
2 bedroom home 1 mile from NO. Call 272 9990. · 
Piano for sale by off-campus senior . $100, or best offer. Call Ted. 289-1775. 
Must sell now. 2 speakers. turntable, 80-watt receiver, all Pioneer equipment. 9 months old. perfect condition. Price negotiable. Call Denny, 1052. 
Stereo Panasonic portable, ex. cellent condition. Inexpensive. Best offer. Call Mary, 7953. 
Refrigerator for sale, 6 cubic feet. $40. 3231. 
NOTICES 

If you have never seen a rugby game before. don't miss the Chicago Lions vs. Notre Dame. Saturday, 1:00 Stepan Fields. 
Logan Volunteers: Picnic Saturday at Holy Cross NO. 11-3. No rec. 
THE CHEAP TRUCK IS BACK offering the lowest prices for baggage to Long Island. Our prices are: trunks-$6, suitcases-S4, boxes. $3, bicycles-$6, golf clubs-$3.50. For information call Leo at 1152 $2 deposit required 
Always the best •n gas Slles and mechanical wor;-now at Tom's University Standard. corner of Ironwood and Sta·.e Rd. 23. 1.0 per· cent discount to NO.& SMC students on al~ purchase! 1!-xcept gas. 
Typing. editing, dissertation specialists. 1BM, special symbols. Linda's Letters, 289-5193. 
Free rO<•m in exchange for child care. Derails negotiable. Phone 232­6362. 
Need help with term papers, reports. etc? Michiana Reference Service for rates and details. P.O. Box 6247, South Bend, t N 46615. 
DRY UP. SWEETHEART! See Humphrey Bogart tonight in The Big Sleep, 7, 9, 11 pm.Saturday in The Maltese Falcon. 7, 9, 11 pm. Sunday in The Caine Mutiny, 6:30, 9, 11 :30 prr.. 
OVERSEAS JOBS Australia, Europe. S. America. Africa. Students all professions and oc. cupations. S700 to $3000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime. sight­seeing. Free Information. TRAN SWORLD RESEARCH. Dept. F3, Box 603. Corte Madera. Calif. 9•925. 
Now renting Campus View Apart­ments. Still some choice 1 and 2 bedroom apartments available. Call 272-1441 for information or stop over and see the model apartment at 54585 Irish Way. 
N. Y. Met. Club baggage truck to 
L. t.-NYC: call 3007 or 1986 tor in­formation. 
Last Happy Hour before finals: Kubiak's. Friday, 3:30·6:30. 51.50 per pitcher. Sponsored by the class of 77. 
RIDE A BIKE FOR THE RETARDED on Sunday, April 27. 
Summer storage, dry, clean. safe. reasonable r~es, pick up and deliver at dorm. Call Mrs. Cooper, 272-3004. 
Summer storage, dry, clean. safe. reasonable rates. pick up 11nd deliver at dorm. Call Mrs. Cooper, 272-3004 
SMC Senior Class Picnic Saturd11y April 27 2-7 P.M. S2.00 for oil tile beer you ~ar drink! 
. .Hot t>oqs. Music Cafete.-la·ti<!ld or Rpqina in ras"->f rain. 
Will do typing, experienced. Call 233· 8512. 
The new Bob Seger album now at Boogie Records, College Square, Mishawaka. 
NO SMC Council for the Retarded . picnic this Saturday, 11:00-3:00 at Holy Cross. Kathy. 4712. 
Anyone who took pictures at the An Tostat Chariot races please contact Tom at 3346 or AI at 3361. 
Sunday NY Times and Washington Post Pandora's Books. 602 N. St Louis at S. Bend Ave. 
Anyone owning a Canon FTb camera please call 255-5848. Need general information. 
Cut it out Megan. or yo•J'II be sorry. That goes tor you too. Annie. 
Desperately need ride to New Haven. Conn or vicinity. May 1316. ShareS. Celia, 4552. 
Accurate. fast typing. SO cents per page. Close to NO. 232-0746. Mrs. Donoho. 
Brewster McCloud is winging his way to Notre Dame, April 29 and 30. 
FOR RENT 

FOR SUMMER RENTAL: large • bedroom furnished house near Jeff. Eddy. Big lawn. 2 baths, washer, dryer. utilities. $175. 234-1972. 
2 bedroom furnished apt at Campus View tor summer. Rent negotiable. Call 277-0003. 
Three bedroom house close to NO, May 15 to Aug 15. Carpeted and paneled living room, complete kitchen, washer and dryer. all utilities included: $150 per month. Call Mrs. Cooper, 272-3004. 
1974 12x60 mobile home located in Village Green, Mishawaka. Two bedroom furnished lor un­furnished), $110 per mo. Prefer 12 mo. lease but will consider 9 mo. terms. Call eves, 259-0051 
CABINS Oil LAKE MICHIGAN FOR RENT: Qnly 30 min. from campus. GINTARAS RESORT, 
15860 Lake S~>ore Rd., Union Pier Mich 616·•~·~298. 
2 rooms, private. $50. Kitchen. rides. 233-1329. 
Houses for rent tor summer near campus. Rent low and negotiable. Ideal for summer school student(s) or anyone staying for the summer. Phone Marty Quirk, at 289-3751. 
Need a place for summer? Fur. nished full houses or single rooms at a discount rate. Walk to cmapus. Call 233-2613. 
House tor rent for next school year. Fully furnished. 2 complete baths, close to campus. 5 bedrooms. S280 per mo. 233-2613. 
Summer storage for dependable service call us! South Bend storage, free pick-up at room and free delivery to dorm. Boxes. S5, trunks, footlockers. or bikes. $6. Call 233­2613. 
Furnished apt, 503 W. Jefferson duplex. 3 rooms second floor. Gas heat furnished 289-6307. 234-0596. 
Summer rental· 3 bedroom house, furnished, corner o NO Ave and Wayne St. Rent negotiable. Call 288­2825. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: set of car and room keys on a Charger key ring . please call 1181. 
Lost: silver ring with blu~ stone at the Tug 0 War. Call 154< ~eward. 
PERSONALS 
To Jean Marie. Happy First Communion on the 27th. Love, 

..
Roland 
Need your stuff shipped to Boston area? Call Milt, 1986. or Bob, 19721or information. 
Ay no. Que pantalones. Another year 
older. Happy birthday, Maureen. 
Scoop. 
Crack a few washes to celebrate. 

• 
Gotta skate. Your roomies 
Kathy, Sorry about the car but if the van's going to hit someone, it may as well be a friend Happy National Secretaries' Day. 
From the Best and the Brighmt 
Hey NO R-Oggers: 
J 
Please tills las~ and klct rhose llol\s right on their ess. 
~~---... ::i+'ll••·~..,;.·.l·.«IIJ~Jrftt,,""" 

16 the observer Friday, April 25, 1975 
Quarterback position scrambled 

b~· Ernie Torriero Forystek may not-fit the style of
i . 

Dt>vine's offense. 1-'nr the second lime in as many SophomorE' KPrry Moriarty and vf'ars Dan [)(>vine is faced with the • 
Junior Kurt Horton pace the thirdproblem of finding a starting ;:---.__ string offense. Moriarty is the 
quarlf'rback for his football team. -smallest Irish guarterback <5-8,Last year at Green Bay, Devine 
Hi! l. Though his size is a factor, went through two quarterbacks Moriarty has good speed and a 
tJPrry TaggE' and Jack Con­strong arm. Horton, whose cannon I bt>fore he frustratedly 
favorite largPI in high school was tradl'd fivE' Packer draft choices l'Pie Demmerle. is the team's onlyfor John Hadl. Devine has his .; 
southpaw quarterback. This work t·ut out for him once again. as spring. he has been the holder for lw sf't'ks to replacE' three-year placPkicker Dave Rf'eve. Drew Irish starlf'r Tom CIE'ments. Only Schuett. a freshman from"";-'this time. he does not have any Wt•stport. Conneticuut. rounds · draft choic-es to barter away if all out the quuarterback roster. 
dst> fails. 
If you add the three incoming''You've got to understand," 
-:·.·· fn•shmm quuarterbacks to the lkvine t•xplains. "that we have ' . .,. . list. then next fall Devine will have 
lost 14 starters from last season. 
.. at !Past II men to chose from to fill 
It's tough! to replace someone with his one void at quarterback.
tht> t•alibt'r of Tom Clements. We llowt•ver. it is unlikely. thoughan• trying to givE' everyone a not impossible. that a freshman
' 

chance to play. But it is tough in would stPp right into the startinglhP spring because many of the role. 
players have latE' classes. The liiallt What Pach quuarterback lacks in coach<'s are also busy trying to C!J""' ability. hP makes up in optimism. implt>mt•nt tht> new offense. Under : ... 
"Pt•rseverance is the key." saysthe circumstances. I think that ~-'" 1\lnriarty. "You've got to hang in Hick tSiagerl has done a fine job. ~.,A# 
lht•re. Sooner or later you'll get
But the two-a-days in the fall are ' your ehance to play." Forystek
crucial. We will bE' able to tell a lot , ......:·.-:. agrees saying. "[I just lakes a lot 
mort> then." -... 
of timt> to get to know the offense. I 
Bt•fort> Frank Allocco seperated ­
·'­just hope lo be ready when I get
THE STARTING quarterback job appeared to be in
his shouldf'r in lht> squad's second NOW RICK Slager is at the helm, but the position is may chance to play. Ry tht>n I will 
the hands of Frank Allocco, until he was hit and
scrimmage. Allocco and Slager still very much up for grabs. 
know the offense well Pnough. '' separated his shoulder two weeks ago.
wPre running nf'Ck and neck in the 
Hut i''alash expresses
battlt> for tht> starting quarterback and he also may have the stronger cautious optimism. "We have a position. Rut this was to be ex­crack. But Pverything is con­capacity nf a s·lagt•r or an Allocco.
arm. On the other hand. Slager long way to go yet." slates Mike. 
pt>cted because Frank and Rick tingent on how wPll his shoulder 1\:t>vertheless. Montana has a rPal
throws better on the run and his "'Tiw fall practices will really tell
lwals. He does have more gamP
art' I he same type of quarterback. open field running is a definite plus. good shot at lhP staring berth. ;t lot." 1\lontana counters this by
Pxperience than Slager. Yet that
Both like to roll out and exercise lkhind Montana are freshmen
l!ick also has two years of saying. "II surE' is a lot different
should not make much of a dif­
tht> option of running or throwing. l;arv Fnrvstek and Mike Falash.
Pligibility left as opposed to from last year. Hight now, things
Allocco has a two inch height fprmce in DPvine's decision of Both camt• to Notre Dame after
Allocco's one. Frank wants to an• looking brighter for all of us.
whom lo start.

•. advantagE' over Slager 16-1 to 5-11) outstanding high school careers.
t·omt> back and give it another Tlw fall should bt• vl'ry interesting. 
i''reshman Jop Montana is the i''nrys!Pk IPd Divine Child High .\llocco is already mentallyhack-up man behind Slager. School in lkarborn Michigan to prt>paring for the fall. "ThPre is an _jThough hE' saw only junior varsity three straight state titles while t•xcdlPnl chance that I will bt> able ~,~action last season. Montana's high Falash captained Highland High In participate nt>xl season." says ..-;~school rPcord speaks for itself. He School in Pocatello. Idaho to slate Frank. But Salger summPd it ·;threw 58 completions in 122 at­championships his laiil two years.
'*Observer 
up ht>sl wht>n h<' said. "Only one IIPmlps for 1.167 yards and nine Valash was thE' most impressive of man can start here at Notre Dame. i
touchdowns. while rushing for 
1hl' young c1uuarterbacks during Tlw n·st are frustrated." 

~~~ yards and four touchdown~ at­lhP junior varsity spason. He Om• of lht> kt>vs. if Notre Dame isHinggold High School in WPstern ;~pp!'ars lo have a good com­to ehallt>nge for thP national title inl't•nnsvlvania. It was th('re that he bination of all the tools. But there
·.Sports 
1!17:1. \lilllw the ability of Devine to WaS ra!Pd "lhP best arm in is no doubt that Forystek possesses find a man capable of generating
llonora. I'a. since Stan Muusial." 
thP lwst. arm of all the Irish I hl' offPnse. It d&s not take long toTht•rp is no doubt about the gt•nprals. Yt•l hP is hampered by think hack to the 1965 and 1971 [. ________________.. stn•ngth of Joe's arm. Yet his tht> faet that hP is mainly a drop

;_ 
st>asons. yt>ars of mt>diocrity when running ability is not up to the hack typP of quartPrback. 
lhl' Irish stuubmled through the campaign without a bonafide offpnsivP general. Ont> 'solution
• 

mtght bP to gear the offense to fit
Jrish hoping for injury-free scr1:m:mage 
lhl' nt>Pds of the quarterback ralht>r than attPmpting to mold the I Center Vince Klees strained his with somP other players on the quuarterback into a specific of­
bv Hill Hrink Andler is now at center in place of si'»orts Jo:ditor knf't' that day also. first and second teams and take a the injured Klees. and Ernie ft•nsivP pattern. If things could get worse, they doser look at them." \'pJpran quarterback watchers
HughPs is at guard now, replacing

Spring football drills enter their 
did. On the ninth play of the second The saying is that at Notre Elton Moore. Pat Pohlen has point to lhP fact that Notre Damefinal stage this week, beginning scrimmage. number I quarterback DamP. you can't afford to get in­advanced to starting tackle has had a tradition of fint> offensivewith the fourth scrimmage tom­Frank Allocco separated his jured because there's always because of Quehl's injury. Stock's lt·adt>rs. Thpy also emphasize that morrow afternoon in the Notre shoulder. sidelining him for the Clt•mt•nts did not secure his
someone as good as you waiting for position is bt>ing filled by juniorDame stadium. Right now it ap­spring. and leaving his future their chance. Certainly Devine Ivan Brown. starting role until the spring
pears 'that Head Coach Oan 
status in doubt. Linebacker and his coaches are hoping that is ~amP lwfore his sophomore year.
Dt>vine's main concern IS trying to Marvin Russell joined Allocco in true. And with so mnay injuries If the Irish ean escape relatively But lht' favorite is the classic 
t>merge from tomorrow's 
the hospital <and the operating they are getting their chance to see unscathed tommorow. and .Jnhn lluarte story. the man whoscrimmage with enough healthy table> with torn knee ligaments. somt• of the reserves in action. anything is relatively unscathed spparated his should('r the springhodies to field in next Saturday's QuPhl made his ankle tendons Hick Slager and Joe Montana compared to the previous of his junior year antl came backannual Blue-Gold Game. 
worse. and is not suiting up. and have moved up into the top two scrimmagPs. then the stage should lhP nt'xt fall to win the Heismanlndet>d. the spring has taken it's 
linPbacker Tony Novakov hurt his bt• set for thealways-interesting
quarterback slots, and former QB Trophy. Coach DPvine may beloll on the Irish forces. Before knet>. Co-captin Jim Stock wrote nominee Ted Burgmeir has been Blue-Gold gamP on May 3 in the hoping that lightining can strikedrills eYen started Notre Dame ... 
off his spring practice by tearing switched to wide receiver. Ken stadium. twin• in lhP sam!' place.
l 
\1 as down thret>. Tight end Robin his wrist ligaments. a recurrence WPber's t aret>r was ended with a of an old injury.
n•rvical nerve injury. offensive Klees lore the ligaments in hislacklt-Harry Woebkenberg was already-damaged knee and guard 
J ', 
suffering from mononucleosis, and i':Iton Moore separated his defPnsive back Tim Simon was shoulder. 
giving his injured eye more time to · "Naturally we hate to have allht•al. 
these injuries," said Devine. 
Things only got worse once the "'Fortunately these players shouldhilling bt'gan. Starting fullback be ready to go in the fall. Their Tom Parise pulled a hamstring in
r'.' absence has left us with 
the first scrimmage, and offensive deficiencies at some positions, but I rackle Steve Quehl hurt his ankle. 
i ( 
it has given us a chance to work f ( ) 
) :~ 
IMPERIAL MUSIC STORE CLOSING 

1~17 Lite. w., West. S.. Bend Store Only Up 50% 
ENTIRE STOCK

Save .Te 
MUSIC &INSTRUMENTS 
THE CHEAP TRUCK IS BACK! 
The Cheapest Way to Get Your 
. 
Baggage to New York (L.I.) 

Providing Dependable Service to. the Notre Dame Community Since 1973 
OFFERING TWO CHOICES OF PICK UP LOCATIONS (Roosevelt Field & Walt WhitmeR) 
For Information & Sign-Ups 
CALL: Leo at 1152 







