
by Thomas O'Neil editor-in-Chief 
Students trespassing during pan­ty raids this year will be subject to oemer disciplinary action, according to a
Dean R 
statement released today by James Roemer, Notre Dame dean of students.

explains 
Trespassing involves breaking into women's dorms either at St. Mary's or Notre Dame, Roemer explained. "We consider trespas­

panty raid 
sing a criminal offense," he said. 
"We expect to treat it as such." 
Roemer explained that he at­tends each panty raid as an

policy 
onlooker. Notre Dame Security usually calls Roemer when a panty raid begins. 
Roemer said he will "get in­volved" in possible raids this year if any student tries to trespass on dormitory property. 
"No trespassing signs have re­cently been installed on resident dorms at the St. Mary's campus. Roemer refused to comment the extent of possible disciplinary ac­tion he may use agsainst students who violate the "No Trespassing" regulation. 
Disciplinary action against tres­passers at raids on the Notre Dame women's dorms will also be sought, he added. 
"We are concerned about peo­pie, not property," Poemer said. "I attend the raids to insure the 
safety ~f students." Roemer cited the example of students climbing the outside walls 
of McCandless Hall as potentially dangerous. "The women some­times throw water from the win­dows. Somebody could fall and get hurt,'' he explained. 
''The practice of male students visiting female residence halls in large groups to ask for panties is not worthy of NotrP Dame men," the statement from \Roemer's office read. "If Notre Dame students trespass on or in women's resi­dence halls on this campus or on the St. Mary's campus, they will be subject to disciplinary action by the Dean of Students." ,Roemer described the traditional panty raid as "degrading" and "a crude form of serenade." 
"It is not a worthwhile tradition in my opinion," he added. "I hope that Notre Dame-St. 
Mary's could develop more honor­able traditions," Kathleen Rice, dean of student affairs at St. Mary's, commented. "I would like­our students to develop a willing· ness to develop social relations with Notre Dame men that doesn't smack of these raids." 
Rice expects the hall staffs, the campus rectresses, herself and her assistants to be present in the halls should a raid occur this year. 
"We will be there to help discourage our women from en· couraging the men to break in the dormitories," she said. 
"These raids are a fifty-fifty responsibility between St. Mary's and Notre Dame," she continued. "Part of our responsibility is to insure the safety of the students. and to take action against those who violate the regulations." 


Huddle renovation delayed insu1fficient funds cited 
by Don Reimer Copy Editor 

Plans to renovate the Huddle are presently being held in abeyance . until sufficient funds can be raised, Vice-President for Student Affiars, Bro. Just Paczesny said yesterday. 
"The benefactors are still very much interested in this project." said Paczesny. ''They are very positive and I think we are going to get it (the money)." Paczesny said that he would announce the details of the project when they became available. 
In an Observer story last March Paczesny estimated the total cost of the project at $300,000. Presently the University has approximately $60,000 remaining from the $190,000 used in the LaFortune renovations last year. This money will be held until the additional funds can be raise:d, according to Paczesny. 
Plans discussed last spring call­ed for an expansion of the Huddle into a Barnaby-style restaurant. The construction of such a res­taurant would necessitate extend­ing the Huddle over the roof of the poolroom. An artist's conception of the facility, displayed last year, showed a setting with heavy oak furniture and barrel-back chairs. 
The menu of the restaurant will offer a wide variety of food ranging from steaks to pizza and hambur­gers. The new restaurant will also have extended hours to meet the varying customer demands. 
Paczesny explained that the pur· pose of the new facility is to provide an "interesting and attractive eat· ing place with a more substantial menu than sandwiches." He noted that there would not be a "21" bar because the restaurant wilf be open to all students. 
Paczesny asked for patience on the part of the students. "I am sure we can all be a bit patient with the generous people who willingly support activities for the welfare of students," he said. "Some things take more time than others--even Crossroads Park was several years on the drawing board." 
Inside ... 
Find out what's happening at the Notre Dame and Campus View apartments. 
... Paxe 3 
-

The recent SLC survey came up with some interesting results. ... Page7 
Joe Yonto, NO's defensive line coach, is featured in today's Sports. ... Page 12 
••• the Observer 
Carter says he would have dismissed Kelley 
by Barry Rosenthal Associated Press Writer 

Jimmy Carter said yesterday as president he would have fired FBI Director Clarence Kelley on the basis of what Carter knows from news accounts. 
"Knowing what I know now, yes, I would have fired him," Carter told reporters as he campaigned in the Northeast. "From what I have learned that has been released, I would replace Mr. Kelley." 
But Carter did not call outright for the FBI chiefs ouster, saying, "I don't have the information President Ford had." 
The director of the FBI "should be purer than Caesar's wife," the Democratic presidential candidate said. "He shouldn't have federal funds being given to decorate his house." 
Kelley has "<:knowledged that FBI workmen built drapery val­ances in his apartment. But he said he was not aware the work was being done, and he has since reimbursed the government 5355. 
The President rejected recom­mendations that he fire or repri­mand Kelley for the valances and for accepting gifts worth up to 5105 on special occasions from FBI subordinates. 
Carter had a busy campaign schedule, touring a New York subway, answering questions the cities from students at Brooklyn College, and touring a submarine plant at Groton, Conn. 
Ford, meanwhile, stayed in the White House. He signed a child care bill, saying it was a "new and better" version of a similar bill he vetoed last April. 
He alluded to the 55 measures he has vetoed since he took office and said the child care bill is an example of how vetoes "exerted a 
balancing influence on the Con­gress.. " 
The measure provides 5240 mill­ion in federal funds for child care services through September next year and postpones federal stan­dards for how those services are to be run until October 1977. 
The President also signed legis­lation authorizing compensation for death, injury or loss of property as a result of the Teton Dam collapse June in southeastern Idaho. 
At Brooklyn College, Carter told the students he thinks former Army Lt. William L. Calley Jr., "was a disgrace to the Army and the country" and "was a scapegoat for his superiors." 
Carter said he still is distrurbed that Calley and no one else was convicted for crimes at the South Vietnamese village of My Lai. 
Calley was on trial at Ft: Ben­ning, Ga., when Carter was sworn in lfS governor of Georgia in 1971. 
******************** 
CAMPAIGN 
76 


P.9. 

******************** 
When the young lieutenant was convicted of killing no less than· 22 
Carter said he took the action in unarmed men, women and child­an effort to diffuse a pro-Calley ren, Carter proclaimed an "Ameri­resolution in the state legislature. can Fighting Man's Day" in his Carter oficially opened his cam­state. paign Monday. 

2 

Wednesday, September 8, 1976
the observer Of Volunteer Services 
~--News Briefs----­
1=============================International 
CAPETOWN SGuth Africa Police clashed with rioters yesterday in white, black, and colored sections of Cape Town. Two persons were reported killed and scores were injured, and in Johannesburg's black township of Soweto, police killed one black and wounded another who they said were trying to cut a rail line. 
HAMBURG West Germany -Secretary of State Henry A. Kisinger said yesterday Tanzanian President Julius Nyerere had invited him to come to Africa as soon as possible to begin efforts to head off a race war. A spokesman for Nyerere, however, said Kissinger had invited himself. 
I:=:::::::::=::====::::::=::::::::=::====::::::=::::::::=::::::::=::==Natio nal 
BARNESVILLE Ohio -Wayne Hays, the Ohio congressman who resigned his seat in the Washington sex-payroll scandal, was h.ospit~~;lized in satisfac!ory condition after a traffic acctdent m nearby Wheehng, W.Va. Hays' physician, Dr. Rich~rd Philli~s, sa~d Hays suffered a couple of bruised nbs and wdl be m Barnesville Hospital no longer than two or three days. 
WASHINGTON D.C. -The government's new five-year health plan released yester?ay placed top priority on controlling runaway medtcal c~sts, and de-emphasizes last year's proposal to boost hquor and ciagrette taxes as a preventative health measure. 
AKRON Ohio -With the longest strike in the history of the U.S. rubber industry apparently in its last two days, one of the industry giants predicted the 1976 rise in tire sales will equal a 30-year record. 
On Campus Toda~' 
graduate seminar, "selected topics in solvent extrac­[ tion," by dr. ruth blumberg, head of process 
. 3.25 pm development dept., imi institute for research and development, haifi, israel. rm. 269, chem eng. bldg., also sept. 15. 
seminar, "controlling the environment: rearing germfree mice on antigen-free, chemically. defined 
4:40pm 

diet," by dr. julian pleasants, nd. glavm aud., sponsored by microbiology dept. coffee at 4:15 pm. 
meeting, organizational meeting for nd-smc branch of 7 pm college republicans, rm. 1-c, Iafortune student center. 
orientation, american scene series orientation, carroll 7:30 pm hall. 
rally, women's sports rally, lib. aud.,, sponsored by 8 pm women's athletics. 
meeting, irish football cheering section organizational 8 pm meeting, Iafortune ballroom. 
Corporation tabs woman 

CINCINNATI (AP)-Dr. Marina 
V.N. Whitman, a professor of economics at the University of Pittsburgh, became the first wo­man to be nominated for election to the board of directors ofthe Proctor & Gamble Co. yesterday. · 
She was nominated to fill a vacancy caused by the death in early 1976 of Eugene N. Beesley, former chairman of the board of Eli Lilly and Co. He had been a P&G director since 1963. 
Dr. Whitman served as a mem­ber of the National Price Commis· sion in 1971-72 and as a member of the.Councilk>f Economic Advisers. to the President during 1972-73. 
Dr. Whitman is a member of the Board of Overseers of Harvard University and chairman of the Advisory Council to Princeton Uni­versity's Department of Econom­ics. She also serves on the editorial boards of ''Averican Economic Review" and "Foreign Policy" and has authored a number of books and articles on economic subjects, P&G officials said. 
Beattie, Reid named heads 
by Mary Mungovan Senior Staff Reporter 

Sr. Judith Ann Beattie and Tom Reid will head the Office of Volunteer Services for the up­coming year, according to the Student Affairs Office. Bro. Just Paczesny appointed the new direc­tors last June to replace Fr. Tom Stella, who is currently at Berkeley University in California. 
Sr. Beattie directed the Depart­ment of Pastoral Care at St. Joseph Hospital in South Bend last year and received a master's degree in pastoral theology from Notre Dame in May. She is now a group reflection supervisor in the Field Educatwn Program at Moreau Seminary. 
"Through my hospital ex­perience, I became involved in training those who'd been called to serve others. I see my role in Volunteer Services as assisting people in developing the skills they need to help others," Beattie commented. 
Originally from Akron, Ohio, Beattie attended St. Mary's College and received a B.S. in nursing from Loyola University in Chicago. She worked as a nurse for seven years before coming to South Bend. 
Reid and Beattie will be co-direc­tors on a part-time basis. Reid served as assistant director of Volunteer Services last year and is currently pursuing graduate work in theology. After graduating from Notre Dame in 1972 with a degree in theology, he taught religion at Gorden . Tech High School in Chicago for three years before returning to the university. 
Approximately 1500 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students partici­pated in twenty-two volunteer or­ganizations last year, according to Reid. 
''There are basically three kinds of volunteer work," he explained. 
"The first group is the 'one-on­one' volunteering which includes tutonng, visiting the elderly, Big Brothers or Big Sisters, hotline, and working with the retarded or at day-care centers." 
In contrast, student service or­ganizations like the Knights of Columbus and Community Services are involved in a wide range of projects, he noted. 
The Observer is published Ntonday through Friday and ~kly during the sunYT'ler session, except during the exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Darre and St. flllcry's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $18 ($10 per serresterJ tro11 The Observer, Box Q, Notre Darre, Indiana 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Darre, IN 46556. 

SENIORS!!!! This is it!!! 
YOUR LAST CHANCE TO SIGN UP FOR SENIOR PORTRAITS AND RETAKES WILL BE THIS WEEK, 
Sept. 8-10, IN BOTH DINING HALLS DURING THE DINNER HOUR. 
"Finally, social action groups like InPirg, CILA, the World Hun­ger Coalition, the Non-Violence Program and the Year-Off Program are attempting to raise questions 
about  life-styles  and  values  by  
increasing  public  awareness  of  
social injustice," Reid added.  

"We see the role of our office as four-fold," Beattie remarked. "We hope to act as a clearinghouse of information, to train leaders in recruiting and training techniques, to provide better communication with South Bend agencies and to develop more social action groups," she stated. 
The office will also help students set up summer or post-graduate volunteer programs such as the Peace Corp. 
"Volunteer work has the added value of giving students the oppor­tunity to get involved in areas they might make their careers," Beattie stated, citing as an example rec-ent graduate Mary Beckman, who was active in CILA and is now working for the Catholic Charities in New York. 
Volunteer Services also sponsors projects which can earn academic credit, Reid stated. Students can visit Catholic Committee on Urban Ministry (CCUM) centers in major American cities and receive course credit in Theology. Community Service directors can also receive credit for taking an urban studies training course. · 
According to Reid, the office is working on the possibility that future volunteers will be able to receive a certificate at graduation testifying to their involvement in a volunteer project. 
One of the major problems encountered in the past was "the duplication of services", Beattie noted. More than one hall or organization would be involved in the same volunteer activity without overall coordination. 
"This year we intend to over­come that problem with better organization and more acc~r~te records. Through better trammg and evaluation programs, we hope to make the volunteer groups more accountable," Beattie declared. 
Reid announced an Urban Studies Orientation will be held for students working in the South Bend community on Sept. 14 at 7 p.m. in room 115 of the Law School. 
The Office of Volunteer Services is located on floor 1.5 of the LaFortune Student Center. 
Manage pep rallys 
The pep rally committee is now seeking students interested in hel­ping organize and manage pep rallies. For information call3652 or 3675. 


'Tearaftt.•r 'ear.I ~emester ·after Tom McMahon ~emester. tlw 
General Aqcnl 
( 'olle~el\ Ia~tl'r from Fidelity l'nion Ijfe has lll't'll tht• most a crept ed. most popular plan on rampust•s all 


John Wahman mer ..\merit' a. 
Agent 

Find out"In.Q ('all tlw 
FidelitY l'nion 
/ ~. 
{'ollt.·~e :\1astl'r Fk•ld Assodatt• 

Karen Wentland m 'our art·a: 
Agent 
915 E. Cedar 
South Bend, Ind. 
Phone 287-2327 
;a 
( t. )llc~l~\ b1-1tlT 


Wednesday, September 8, 1976 the observer 
Apartment complexes in trouble 

Campus View Apartments are pre­sently in receivership. He ex­
Call-girl ring broken
plained that the former owners were defaulting their loans. The attorney went on to explain CHICAGO (AP)-A $100-a-visit much as they wanted of it while that when the owner defaults on his call girl ring that included house­they waited," he said. "Patrons loan, his property is put into wives, women college students and also could watch pornographic receivership. The property is then a crane operator in a South Side movies cr look at pornographic put up for sale in a public auction. steel mill has been broken up, the magazines while they were wait· He emphasized the fact that the Illinois Bureau of Investigation said ing." property must be sold and pur-yesterday. chased in its entirety. The buyer An IBI spokesman said agents must bid on the property and the posing as patrons raided a phony furniture in all the complexes. construction company office on the Volunteer Leaders 
The ever popular Senior Bar reopened last night to a large and satisfied crowd. (Photo by janet Carney) 
) 

by Karen Hlnks and there is no danger that the Staff' Reporter leases will be broken. Managers of the Notre Dame 
Intere·st was expressed by stu­Apartments affirmed that the dents earlier this week concerning apartments are all leased and that the present financial status of the there is in fact a waiting list of Notre Dame and Campus View possible tennants. Apartments. Students reported A public auction has not yet been that furniture from the apflrtments held for the Campus View apart­was being sold and that all the ments. Students living in Campus apartments had not been leased. View reported that they signed 
According to a South Bend attorney, both Notre Dame and In Chicago 
-According to a source of the far South Side and arrested three off-campus housing office, all the women before the Labor Day apartments are leased in the Notre weekend.' Dame apartments. A public auc-Charged with keeping a place of tion was held yesterday. Both the • prostitution was Alice Rhaburn, 50. 
attorney and the off-campus direc­tor stressed that the new owner will honor the leases signedtly students 
WASHINGTON (AP) -U.S. military sources said yesterday they expect an intelligence bonanza from examination of the first advanced Soviet MIG25 jet fighter to land within reach of U.S. Air Force experts. 
The sources said American tech­nical intelligence specialists have been all over a MIG25 "Foxbat" interceptor since it was flown to northern Japan Monday by a defecting Russian air force pilot. 
Of special interest to U.S. tech­nicians is the radar used by the Russians to guide the missiles that the Foxbat would fire at U.S. fighters such as the F15 in an air battle. 
American specialists also are reportedly gathering vital first­hand information on the MIG2S's 
~ twin turbojet engines, its airframe design and construction. Officially, the United States avoided saying whether Japanese authorities had allowed U.S. experts access to the MIG25, which has been described as the fastest weapons-carrying warplane in the world. Pentagon s okesman 
·PATe: 
' : . ': :':·:·.·· ,_:=:.)::;:;;;.\k:;:,., . 
we es the women of Notre Dame and St. Mary's to participate in our FREE giveaway drawing 
e$50 OUTFIT OF YOUR CHOICE 
Just stop in with this coupon!!! 
Take me to the Patch Name -------....:::.-----­Address ------------­A'lone -------------­
no purchase necessary NORTH VILLIAGE MALL U.S. 31 
Woods told a briefmg "I'm sure 
we'd be interested," but "it's up to 
the Japanese to decide who is 
going to be looking at it.'' 
Other sources indicated the U­
nited States wants to spare its ally, 
Japan, any diplomatic difficulties 
with the Soviet Union. 
Pentagon officials anticipate the 
Japanese will return the MIG25 to 
Russia. The pilot reportedly has 
requested asylum in the United 
States, and U.S. officials have said 
he would be welcomed here. 
The MIG25 has been a source of 
concern to U.S. military officials 
since it demonstrated in the early 
1970's its ability to fly faster than 
2,00 miles per hour at altitudes of 
80,000 feet and above. 
A reconnaissance version of the 
Foxbat drew special attention sev­
eral years ago when Israeli-piloted 
· F4 Phantom jet fighters tried 
unsuccessfully to intercept Soviet­
piloted MIG2S's flying over the 
Sinai. Those MIGs were based in 
Egypt at that time, but the Rus­
sians have since withdrawn them. 
If they'd had their preference, 
U.S. technicians probably would have preferred getting their hands on the reconnaissance version of the MIG25 because that would have given them an opportunity to study sophisticated cameras, sen­sors and "black box" intelligence­gathering electronic equipment now in use in Russia's most advanced surveillance planes. 
However, U.S. Air Force officers are openly gleeful that their techni­cians will be able to tell them about the specific technical details of the MIG25 in its fighter form, referred to in 1973 by then Air Force Secretary Robert Seamans as "probably the best interceptor in production in the world today." 
Hewlett-Packard wrote the book 
on advanced pocket calculators. 
I 

Pick up your free copy today! 
32 fascinating pages-filled with 
vital facts and valuable com­
parisons to help you select 
exactly the right calculator for school and beyond. 
The HP-21 Scientific. When simple arithmetic won't cut it. 
It makes short work of your technical and non-technical calculations. Log, trig and arithmetic functions are per­formed automatically. You do the thinking, the HP·21 does the figuring. All this and more-for $80. * 
The HP-22 Business The HP-25C Scientific The HP-27 Scientific/Plus. Management. Solving the Programmable with Science plus statistics and horrors of business math. Continuous Memory. finance. 
You can zip through loan The HP·25C retains your Gives you 28 exponential. 
payments, interest problems, programs and saves your log and trig functions, 15 
investment calculations and data-even wben you turn it statistical functions and 10 
stat with a few fancy clicks off. New at only $200.* Also financial functions-all pre­
of the keyboard. Your dad available: the HP-25 Scientific programmed and stored. All should have had it so easy. Programmable. Identical to you do is key in your data. Only $125.* the HP-25C except without press the appropriate function ·Suggested reta11 pnce exclud•ng applicable continuous memory. Only keys and see your data dis­~tate and lOcal ta•es-Conunental U S 
$145! played in seconds. Only
Alaska and Hawan 
$175.• 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
A re·presentitive from Hewlett Packard will be at the bookstore Sept 9th 
from 1-4:00. A representitive from Texas Instruments will be at the bookstore Sept. 9th from 9-12:00. 
for a demonstration and to answer your questions. 
. ' .. 

Dornice Jones, 28, and Cindy Reff, 
21, were charged with soliciting. 
The spokesman said Miss Jones 
was a regularly-employed crane 
operator at a steel mill and 16 
women were on call, some of them 
housewives supplementing family 
incomes and college studentsearn­
ing money to return to school. 
The names were found in a work 
book, but no further arrests were 
made, the spokesman said. 
He said persons using a six-bed­
room complex adjacent to the office 
paid $100 each for services. 
"Customers were offered any 
kind of alcoholic drinks and as 
Colloquium meetS 
The first meeting of the Theology ·and Life Colloquium on Human 
Sexuality will be held in the 
Hayes-Healy Center, Room 122, on 
Wednesday, September 8, at 7:30 
.m. 
leases with the knowledge that the apartments were in receivership. 
An Off-Campus housing source explained that even after the public auction is held, students that have already signed leases with Campus 
View Apartments will not be in danger of having their rents indis­criminately raised. The leases already signed with Campus View will be honored. 
set to meet 
Volunteer Services will sponsor a meeting of all volunteer group leaders Wednesday, Sept. 8 at 8:15 
p.m. in the LaFortune Theatre, director Tom Reid announced yes­terday. The leaders will receive 
·direction on training and recruiting techniques. 
Republicans Mobilizing 
The University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College branches of the College Republicans will hold their first organizational meeting of the semester tonight, Sept. 8, at 7 
p.m. The meeting will be held in Room 1-C ofthe LaFortune Student Center. 
Activities for the upcoming fall campaigns will be discussed as well as other ideas for promoting Re­publican philosophy on the two campuses. 
All students, faculty and other interested individuals are welcome to attend . 

6 additional facultv 
St. Mary's has new business chairman 
by Sue Ballman Schmuhl sees an important goal for professors who show a willing­Michigan State University and has from Harvard is teaching theStaff Reporter of the Business Department as ness to devote time to the stu­made significant progress toward Business Policy course. Teaching a "developing the students' critical, dents," Schmuhl noted. 

Principles of Management courseobtaining his CPA," statedWilliam Schmuhl, Jr. has been analytical, problem solving and Schmuhl spent the majority of is Thomas R. Pilot, Jr. who has tenSchmuhl.
appointed Chairman of the Busi­decision making capabilities so that the summer recruiting faculty 
years of marketing and manage­ness Department at St. Mary's when they enter the work force members. Professor Gary P. Cain In addition, three new part-time ment experience, and Charles N. replacing Acting Chairman they will be able to apply those formerly from the University of faculty members have been hired. Bernato, Jr., a CPA, is teachingJohn T. Croteau. Croteau had principles to meet the types of Oregon is the latest addition to the Allan C. Bloomquist, with an MBA Federal Income Taxes. replaced Dr. Farrouk MuWakki problems normally presented.'' full-time faculty members. 
who was on sabbatical over the Speaking of his appointment, Although Cain is presently teach­
Farley guest area filled;
1975-76 school year. Schmuhl observed, "This is a ing courses in finance, manage­Prior to his appointment, tremendous opportunity to prepare ment, and accounting, he will Schmuhl taught accounting part­women for careers in business." primarily be responsible for devel­
reservations being taken 
time at St. Mary's for three years. The addition of Schmuhl as a full oping the Finance offerings in the The Farley Guest Area located in Guest Area Friday afternoon and.
Schmuhl graduated from Notre time faculty member has brought department during second semes­the basement of Farley Hall will be evening. Reservations will beDame in 1965 with a BBA and the number of full time faculty in ter, according to Schmuhl. 
obtained his JD at Notre Dame in the Business Department to five. Schmuhl has also hired Professor ready for occupancy this weekend cancelled if guests are not checked for female friends of Notre Dame
1967. In 1972 he received his MBA At present, however, Schmuhl is Claude D. Renshaw for the begin­in by 11 p.m. Check-in time on 
students. Each guest must be Saturday can be arranged with the from the University of Chicago and seeking to expand the number of ning of second semester. 
registered by a Notre Dame host manager, Kit Baron, 7180.
became a CPA the same year. full time faculty. ''The department "Renshaw is presently at the and the fee must be paid in 4. No food, smoking or alcohol is 
Schmuhl has nine years of experi­has a strong committment toward University of Wisconsin at Park­ence in law and accounting. teaching excellence and is looking side. He has an MBA from 
advance. permitted in the rooms. Males are 
Farley Guest Area was estab­not allowed into the guest area lished two years ago to accommo­except for registration. date the large number of female 5. Fee for occupancy is $2.00 per
Ehrlichman sentenced to twenty months; 
guests visiting the campus every night. weekend. This youth-hostel type 6. Guests of male students at arrangement can accommodate 36 Notre Dame hitve preference over
lawyers planning~Supreme Court case 
girls. guests of female students if the· WASHINGTON (AP) -John D. , psychiatrist who had been treating money, and ordered him to the Certain rules governing the number of reservations exceed the 
Ehrlichman, once one of Richard ·Pentagon Papers figure Daniel Safford prison which, he said, "has guest area will be enforced: number of available beds in the 
M. Nixon's top presidential aides, Ells berg. been designated as the place of 1. No girl under age 17 may be basement. Room preference is not was ordered yesterday to begin confinement by the Bureau of registered in the guest area. A guaranteed.
Since then, he also has been
serving a 20-month prison sentence Prisons." photo I.D. is required. For reservations or any ques­
convicted with three others of 
on Sept. 17 for his role in the Ehrlichman's lawyers already 2. No large groups of women tions, call Kit Baron at 7180, room
participatipg in the Watergate
White House plumbers' case. have asked the appeals court to may register themselves in the G-7; between 4:30-5:30 p.m. and
cover-up and faces 21h to 8 years' 
U.S. District Judge Gerhard A. allow him to remain free while case guest area or be registered by one 11:30-12:30 a.m. Monday through 
imprisonment in that case. The
Gessell ordered Ehrlichman to is carried to the SupremeCourt If Notre Dame host. Friday.
cover-up case still is being consid­
report to the federal prison camp at the appeals court agrees, Gessell's 3. All guests must be prepaid Farley Guest Area is filled for 
.ered by the U.S. Court of Appeals. 
Safford, Ariz., on or before that order would be overridden and and preregistered. Notre Dame this weekend. Few openings date. The 10-day period to Sept. 17 The appeals court on May 17 Ehrlichman would be permitted to hosts are asked to accompany their remain for the weekend of Sept. was granted to allow Ehrlichman to upheld Ehrlichman's conviction in stay out of prison, at least tempor­weekend guests to Farley Hall 17-19. 
get his affairs in order. ··the plumbers' case, so-called be­arily. Ehrlichman has been free on a cause White House agents nick­The former White House domes­
Hawkers evicted 
personal recognizance bond since named "The Plumbers" conducted tic counselor has been living near Jully 12, 1974, when he was the Watergate break-in. Santa Fe, N.M., since he was convicted of violating the civil Judge Gesell revoked Ehrlich­convicted in the cover-up case on from tourist lure rights of Dr. Lewis Fielding, a man's bond, which involved no New Year's Day 1975. 
LISBON (AP) -Trying to lure tourists back to Portugal, police
Foreign troops join fighting in Lebanon: 
cleared scores of shoeshine boys, fruit sellers and pornography ped­dlers out of famous Rossio Square
Syrians, Arabs, Iraqis, French, others 
yesterday. Many of those leaving said they may have to turn to · ~ 
BEIRUTL Lebanon (AP) -Peer­any cease-fire. has said some oi its members are thieving to make a living. ~ ,,-..:A~rA~~"""l ing through a hole punched in the The Syrians at first worked fighting for Christian militias in The statue of Kind Dom Pedro IV ~ ~NU ~ wall, a young Iraqi sniper squinted through their Saiqa Palestinian Lebanon "to save Christian civil-gazed somberly down on the 19th ~ GOLF CENTER ~ down the sights of his rifle and guerilla group and aided leftist ization." One young Frenchman century square suddenly drained of ~ . squeezed off a round at Christians Moslems in early stages of the war. was seen killed in July during the color and the cries of street ~ II!
rt· 

two buildings away. But Syrian President Hafez battle for Tal Zaatar Palestinian vendors. ~ · ...:t ~ 
f'l'can't see them," he said in an Assad did an about face when it refugee camp. Dozens of retornados-jobless ~ .. ~ '. easily recognizable Iraqi accent. became clear the leftists were A few French military experts refugees from Portugal's former ~ · ~ t "But I can see where they are about to trounce the Christians and also have been reported training African colonies-still stood at ~ 
moving around inside." run the country on their own. Since the Chris~ian Phalange party mili-their favorite curbside meeting "NIGHT LIGHTED" ~ 
The sharpshooter was part of a spring, he has backed the Christ-tia in using sophisticated weapons places, eyeing young women and ill 9 HOLE • PAR 3 GOLF couRsE ~ contingent of Iraqis and Pales­ians and tried to bring the Pales-and special sniper gear. They are chatting quietly. Otherwise, there ,o,;.,;n" Ran"• 18 Hoi• Miniature~ tinians from Iraq dispatched to help tinians to heel. presumed to be former French were just the pigeons. ~ Open Dawn Til 1o,oo PM ~ leftist Moslem and Palestinian -Arab League peacekeeping officers working for pay. It was more than a civic cleanup. LOCATED us 33 AT IRONWOOD ~ forces in the Lebanese civil war. troops: -Cypriots: Premier Mario Soares, heading the ;-J jill
I 

They are fighting Christians in These forces include Saudi Chamoun has indirectly con-first democratic government in half .I Calf 288-0033~ ~ Beirut's battered commerical sec­Arabians, Sudanese, and Libyans, firmed that Christians are being a century, promised voters in July I N<> Ans Call _ ~ 
11 282 2366 

tor and in the area where the along with Syrians separated from helped by former members of he would make the Rossio a symbol L 1715 LINCOLN WAY EAST so. UliP ~­Christian quarter of Ein Rum­the main Syrian contingent. The EOKA, an underground group of of his campaign to end social chaos a.''"'''''''~ maneh abuts the Moslem neigh­peacekeeping forces were Greek Cypriots sworn to make their in Portugal. . 
r'---IOi·---·------­

borhood of Chiyah, Beirut's hottest dispatched in June in an effort ot Mediterranean island part of In the turmoil following the over-
I 
fronts. separate the combatants. Greece. This reporter went to the throw of the long-time rightist ~ The role of foreign fighters in The 3,500 peacekeepers have Christian port of Jounieh on a boat dictatorship 38 months ago, hawk-Lebanon has been a subject of never been seen participating in carrying a former Cypriot army ers covered the black-and-white ' charges and countercharges in the combat, despite Christian charges officer returning to the Lebanese sidewalk mosaics with makeshift ~ 17-month civil war. Each side has that the Libyans have fought for the battlefield after a rest on Cyprus. stalls as authorities failed to en-accused the other of bringing in leftists. The peacekeeping force -Others: force licensing laws. ~ mercenaries, while discreetly viel­commander, Egyptian Maj. Gen. Leftists have charged German Soares has promised to restore ·t ing its own help from abroad. Mohammed Hassan Choneim, mercenaries are helping the Chris-the grandeur of the square and 
The following picutre of non­denies it has ever happened. tians, while the Christians maintain surrounding streets, built by the Lebanese taking part in the blood­-Iraqis: that Somalis, Chanaians and Marges de Pombal in an attempt to letting was pieced together from At least one contingent of Iraqis Cubans are helping the Moslem rival Paris' majestic avenues. The on-the-spot observations has come to Lebanon as part of the side. None of these has been seen premier hopes to bring back the 
sourceslon both sides: lraqij-sponsored Arab Liberation or reliably reported by independent tourists, who earned the country 
Front, a radical Palestinian guerilla observers to be in battles. hundreds of millions of dollars -Palestinians: band. "There aren't many secrets annulllly before being frightened About 300,000 Palestinians lived Camille Chamoun, a Christi~n around here,'' a Palestinian official off by the revolution. 
in Lebanon before the war began in militia leader, .charged that 2,000 told a journalist friend. "You guys The hawkers left their beats April 1975, including about 12,000 Iraqi army soldiers flew to Egypt get around everywhere and visit all quietly before dawn, many unsure well-armed guerillas. They have and then came by boat to Lebanon. the fronts. If the other foreigners where they would go. Some said been at the heart of the conflict The fighters themselves, in re-were there, sooner or later you they might head north to 'the from its beginning. !axed conversations on the battle-would see them." vineyards. 
The number of guerillas has front, say they volunteered "to aid e e e e • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • e • e e e e e e e • e increased sharply over the months. the Arab revolution" and arrived • --e
-TJMM -PARTY· STORE 
Palestinian chieftain Y asir Arafat without military training. • . • recently declared all able-bodied "We are Iraqis and we came •oPEN MON SAT ·•
Palestinians will be drafted. here about a month ago. I don't • _ : -9 8ID -11 p~ In addition, some 8,000 troops of know how many of us are here, but • SUNDAY 12 11 '•· 
the Palestine Liberation Army we are fighting on all fronts," said • . noon -pm • entered Lebanon in January from 
Syria and Egypt. ~o~~~~~ni~e;ut~niper's nest in : COLD BEER, PACKAGE IJQUOR,: 
-Syrians: 

His superior heard what he said .• WJNV GOURMET FOODS ·•.·
Damascus sent between 13,000 and declared, "We are all Pales-~ and 15,000 Syrian soldiers into tinians born in Iraq, and that is why • S NILES MJCIDGAN • 
Lebanon early this summer, backed we speak Arabic with Iraqi accents • 3114 S. 11 T • ' · • .· by about 500 tanks. They control 
Iik.:_~:=~~h: :1 MILE NORTH OF IND.-MICH. STATE ~INE ON U.S~31:
i) about a third ofthe country's,4,015 
~ ~ t! ~ ~ ~ .~-~.,. • ~-~ • • • ~, • • • ',• • • • • • • • • 
HE 


ND student clubs & halls interested in n-campus concess1o stands for football Saturdays must be registered with Student Activities by Spm. Wednesday Sept-.8 Call Activities Office at 7308 or stop_ in, 
irst floor La F ortline 
HEY! 
1 ; square miles and hold the key to A rightist student group. in, Pari~ , .~ .___________...,. 
l 
·\ ~ 
---------------~--­
·Wednesday, September 8, 1976 the observer 
HPC discusses plans and projects 
byTomByme organization.'' Senior Staff Reporter Russell suggested football lotter­ies and contests to stimulate the The Hall Presidents Council held drive, and Berry promised in 
its opening meeting last night in addition to have posters available Alumni Hall and discussed a to hall drive chairmen. variety of topics, including the Student Union Administrative development of closer cooperation Coordi_nator Mary Charchut briefed with St. Mary's halls. the presidents on current mC1tters, 
HPC Chairman J.P. Russell re­in particular, problems arising marked afterward that the working from summer storage. relationship of the HPC and St. Charchut advised those still 
Mary's halls was "in the dol­searching for stored articles to drums." He expressed hope, direct their inquiries to U.S. Van of however, that this would change in South Bend, which will also handle the future, as SMC hall presidents any damage reports. She added, have been invited to attend HPC "The only coverage on losses is 30 meetings this year. cents per pound, unless there was 
Julie Pellettiere, president of added coverage." Holy Cross hall at SMC attended Charchut also informed the coun­last night's meeting and mentioned cil that preparateions for Mardi that the five St. Mary's halls were Gras are already underway, with 
considering forming their own or­the first meeting of hall chairmen ganization. She indicated that she scheduled for later this month. was pleased with the cooperation extended by the HPC. Off-campus Teams Intact 
United Way Drive to Begin Russell read the council a letter from Dominick Napolitano, director The group also heard Dean of Nonvarsity Athletics, who de­William Berry, chairman of the clined to allow off-campus students campus United Way Campaign, to participate on the interhall teams outline plans for the contribution of their former halls, citing general drive to begin later this month. sentiment against the idea among Citing "great cooperation from hall staffs and athletic administra­
students in the past,'' Berry added, tors. "I won't suggest a campaign, since In other business, Student Gov­each hall has its individual charac­ernment Judicial Coordinator Bob ter." Bode urged the group to begin 
Russell reminded the council naming their hall judicial board 
that the drive "ran into serious chairmen immediately. He also problems last year" because of instructed the presidents to inform inadequate advance planning. the section leaders that "if anyone 
"Some halls did a good job, but gets in trouble, call the student others with 300 people raised only government office and find out fifteen or twenty dollars," he what their rights are." recalled. "It wasn't because they The council also reviewed the didn't care, but because of poor procedure for selecting the recipi-
Loescher named Asst. Dea of Arts and Letters 
byJack Pizzolato 

tiona! studies within the college of Staff Reporter Arts and Letters itself,'' said Loescher. 
Dr. Gilburt Loescher, a former Loescher has traveled extensive­visiting assistant professor of gov­ly through Western Europe, as well ernment and international studies, as in Russia, China, and the 
was appointed this summer to the Eastern bloc countries. He served post of Assist~nt Dean for the as principal of an American secon­College of Arts and Letters. The dary school in London, from 1969 to 
position was vacated last year by 1971, and stayed on another four ·the college's present dean, Dr. years to complete his Ph.D. in Isabel Charles. Philosophy in International Studies "We were looking for a man who· 
from the University of London's 
had experience with us and was School of Economics and Political familiar with the University," com­Science. Loescher's other degrees mented Charles. "We chose Dr. 
include a_J~_.A. in Modern HistoryLoescher because of the fine job he from St. Mary's College of Cali­
did last year and because of the fornia, and a Masters in Politics rapport he has with his students." 
from the Monterey Institute of 
Loescher brings to his post a Foreign Studies. broad background in international affairs and relations. As a result, 
He has published a book on one of his chief responsibilities will contemporary China, The Chinese be to act as Notre Dame's repre­Way, and is now preparing two sentative to the Indiana Consorti­more books for young adults: 
one um for International Programs, a on the Third world and another on group concerned with devising an 
human rights and political prison­international studies curriculum 
ers. "I think we should familiarize and with informing both students 
and sensitize our young people to and faculty on opportunities over­international problems," said seas. 
Loescher. "It is an area neglected "I also hope to develop interna-in most elementary curriculum." 

Class Treasurer position open 
Applications will be accepted for Sophomore Class Treasurer until Sept. 13, announced Sophomore Class President Michael Clancy. 
The position was vacated by Ravinder Rai who was accepted to medical school in India. She will not be returning to Notre Dame for her sophomore year. 
Applications must be accom­panied with a one-page typewritten resume stating one's qualifications and the reasons why one desires to be treasurer of the Sophomore Class. 
Dr. Loescher For more information, call the Student" Activities bffice at 7j08. ' ent of the Rockne Trophy, awarded monthly to the most active hall. Russell called for "drastic revi­sion," and suggested using former hall presidents as judges to allevi­ate some of the problem. 
Charlie Moran, special projects coordinator for the Student Union, disclosed that a fireworks display and dance at Stepan Center will follow ~aturday's football game. He also solicited ideas for future events. 
New Role for Section Leaders 

Russell urged the group to strive to develop "a good foundation of section leaders," and suggested ways to accomplish this goal. 
"It's a serious thing," he em­phasized. "We want to use section leaders more, in a variety of ways, besides just for feedback.'' 
In accordance with his new conception of the role of section leaders, Russell propose~ consi­deration of occasional "votes of confidence," and other measures to encourage better performance. 
The HPC will have a dinner meeting next week in order for. the members •'to get to know each other." Future meetings will be open to the public, and Russell encouraged all interested individu­als to attend. 

The University of Notre Dame Black seeks to formally as well as informally Cultural Arts Center defines its role as make a supportive input to the a philanthropic organization -part academic and social atmosphere of the mutual benefit, part service -because university. The Center also tries to it serves members' interest in serving provide a familiar socio-cultural am-the interests of theirs . The Black bience on the campus to. which black Cultural Arts center is in room 2AA La students and faculty can relate. In Fortune Student Center on the campus addition, The Center makes a positive of Notre Dame. It is the campus effort towards advancing the intellec­location where the Black culture of The tual and cultural development for all United States and other countries people. 
1976 BCAC SEPTEMBER ACTIVITIES 
BCACFORUMSeptember 05 

Auditorium of Center for Continuimg Education, 2:00 P.M. September 09 Last day to register-for BCAC mem­bership and officer nomination 
September 1 0 BCAC meeting 8:00 P.M. ' 
September 11 "THE EBONY SIDE OF THE DOMJ:: iMonogram Room-ACC Featuring "The Sound Masters" A semi-Formal Disco Affair 9:00-2:00 
A.M. $3.50 per couple, $2.00 at door. 
September 12 BCAC election 8-11 P.M. 
September 15 Announcements of results of BCAC elections. 
September 17 BCAC meeting 8:00 P.M. 

September 24 _BCAC meeting 8:00 P.M. 

The Hall Presidents' Council, meeting in open session, discussed mr•rn"'"'o relations with St. Mary's. (Photo by Janet Carney) 
KEN'S DEN 
HAIR STYLING -­MEN &WOMEN ACROSS FROM 1 00 CENTER (LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA) PHONE 255-6500 APPOINTMENTS PREFERRED 

··Campus Briefs Speakers at the rally will includeFlip cards and Head Coach Dan Devine and co-captains Mark McLane and Willie Fry. The band will step offcheers tonight from Washington Hall at 6:45 p.m.There will be a brief meeting for It is requested that all bikes be all students interested in the IRISH removed from pathways for the FOOTBALL CHEERING SECI'ION band. at 8 p.m. on Wed. September 8 in the LaFortune ballroom. Plans for Clue Two: which the various activities, such as the Flip Cards, will be discussed, and way 1America'?the cheerleaders will teach the popular Notre Dame cheers. Ifyou Here is the second clue to the are unable to attend this brief hidden America tickets, along with meeting, but are interested in the a repeat of the first clue. cheering section please call either Additional clues will be given Suzanna Behnke (6169) or Bob throughout the week in the Ob­Lombardo (1411) for more informa­serve You will have a chance to tion. guess the hiding place Friday night at Carney '76 at 6:30 p.m. byLonger wait for placing your name in a box which will be on the stage. If your name is pulled, you'll have the opportun­the Turkey leg ity to venture a guess as to where the tickets are.The official academic calendar for 1976-77 mistakenly lists aue#lThanksgiving Holiday as beginning at 12:30 p.m. on Wednesday, Nov To get to the America tickets,24. The holiday will begin after the you must meet at the crossroads,last class on this date, according to but don't get wet.the Office of Student Affairs. aue#2 Pep V • Pitt Friday In continuing on your way to Th all ~ th Pi b finding the America tickets, look-e ~ep r Y •Or . e tts urgh ing south, you'll see new before game will be .held Fnday, Sept. 10, old. Forget the new, and pursue· at 7 p.m. m Stepan Center. the old .•  

Campaigning starts 
Candidates plugging 
by Darrel Christian Associated Press Writer 

Democratic gubernatorial candidate Larry A. Conrad pro­posed a three-part program yes­terday to lower home electric bills but said he might need two years if elected to put the plan into effect. 
· The complex program, affecting only residential customers, would eliminate fuel adjustment charges on utility bills, standardize rates for the low usage and revamp the rate base. 
Elsewhere on the first campaign day after the traditional Labor Day kickoff: 
One of the rare legal dome-climbers at ND prepares the ACC roof for Republican Gov. Otis R. Bowen years of shining, leakless protection of concert-goers sports fans and said accelerated inter-state high-conventioneers. [Photo b anet Carne ' 
-------"------'--"----'-.:___::c=-;.:.;:_L.oL.__________--! way construction during his ad­
ministration has boosted the eco­nomic health of southern Indiana. 
Democratic Sen. Vance Hartke
Dry lake to be filled 
by Jean Powley Staff Reporter 

St. Mary's students returning to campus last week were met with an unusual sight. Lake Marion, the reflecting pool south of the col­lege's library, was completely empty. 
According to Joseph Bonadies, director of grounds, crews worked this summer draining the man­made lake to clean out the accumu­lated sediment and install new overflow drain pipes. 
The four-foot deep pool is only drained once every eight to ten years for this type of major clean-up and repair program, ac­cording to Bonadies. The last time it was drained was 1967. 
Bonadies went on to explain that the draining is always done during the summer when the students are gone and the lake is left empty for six to eight weeks to allow the sediment to dry. The debris is then cleared away: 
For many years after its blessing on May 2, 1907, Lake Marion was th.e site of canoeing, ice skating and many aquatic sports. Even the said Republican challenger Richard 
C. Lugar and President Ford "are island which it surrounds was once sending up a phony rhetorical used for student performances of smokescreen" by blaming Con­Greek plays. gress for big government. 
Activity in and around the lake Lugar opened a new line ofhas decreased considerably during campaign attack, trying to separatethe last few years, but it is still a Hartke and Democratic president­favorite spot to sit and study, ial candidate Jimmy Carter. Lugaraccording to many St. Mary's s~id Hartke still favors "spendingstudents. 
without though of debt and infla­Bonadies said that they plan to tion" while Carter is back on there-fill the lake sometime this week 
balanced-budget wagon. 

or next. If possible, they will stock the lake with bluegill and bass at Conrad told an Indianapolis news that time. 
Last chance in Indiana for unregistered student voters 
Voter registration for Notre p.m. to 6:15 p.m. The drive is 
Dame students will begin on Fri­being coordinated by Patty Shee­day, September 10 at Stepan han and John Talbot of the Notre Center immediately after Senator Dame student lobby with the Notre Walter F. Mondale's speech, ac­Dame Law School and the Con­cording to Jerry Klingenberger, gressman John Brademas lobby. head of the student lobby. 
The Notre Dame student lobbyRegistration booths will be set up will be lobbying for a loweredin Stepan Center to continue Sept­drinking age in Indiana. Klingen­ember 13 through 15 in the North berger indicated that increased
and South Dining Halls from 5:00 registration on campus will "en­hance the opportunity for the passage of a bill lowering the legal 
age." •••••••••••••SAVE~•••••••
In most states one must registe.  ' : '  .  •  
in person for an absentee ballot, so.  .  · ··  ···  WITH COUPON  •  
Klingenberger  warned  students  niri"r  3 GAMES  •  
who have  not registered in thei4  .f'¥11­ 

home state to register on campus. • "This would be the last chance to. vote in the national election on November 2," he emphasized. • Klingenberger said that students. from Maine, New Hampshire,..
Connecticut, Rhode Island and Pennsylvania should be aware that 
any state grant-in-aids they are 
currently receiving could be in jeopardy if they are not registered to vote. Students from other states need not worry about any grant loss. 
Re-registration in another dis­trict would automatically purge their name from the South Bend register, Lingenberger pointed out. 
V-P candidate arrives Thursday 
A visit to the South Bend Bendix 
Plant, a fund-raising breakfast and 
a presentation to students and 
faculty of the University will high­
light Senator Walter F. Mondale's 
(D-Minn.) visit to the local area. 
Mondale is scheduled to arrive at the Bendix Plant with Congress­man John Brademas at 3 p.m. tomorrow. On Friday, September 10, Mondale will greet guests and speak briefly at a Third District Democratic Committee fund­raising breakfast in the Monogram Room of the ACC at 8:00 a.m. 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Uni­versity president, wil introduce Mondale for a 30 to 45 minute speech to students and faculty in Stepan Center at 10:00 a.m. on Friday. Classes will not be excused during his. pt:esentation, . ,'. 
conference his electric utility pack­age would affect invester-owned, private electric utilities, rural elec­tric cooperatives and municipally owned utilities. He said it would not apply to commercial, business or industrial use. 
Besides elimination fuel adjust­ment charges now imposed on electric utility bills, the Conrad plan called for a "Fair share" rate and abandonment of the fair value system of rate making. 
The air value system is based on what it would cost to replace facilities at current costs, usually much higher than the original expense. Conrad proposes repla­cing that with something like 

If you look 
like this 
at least 
once a 
week ... 

then you must be an Observ Night Editor (or one of their assistants) 
.....and you have a­
meeting tonight .at 9 
~-,~=:::.""'t:~ 
f~b·  FOR PRICE OF ONE-EX.P 10-3-76  •  
... "  306 W McKinley, Mishawaka  259-4171  •  
.  
2 blocks E. ofT & C Shoppmg Cnt._  •  
MAKE  NEW  FRI EN OS  PLAYING PUTT-PUTT  •  

• __ 

~------------------------­
T~e Fireworks .Festiwall 
of musiC, food, refreshments and flreworka 
Frldlly September 10-rock and roll featuring 
BROWNSVILLE STATION and the electric blues of LUTHER ALLISON a!ld MAGI  
Satunbly September 11  Sunday September 12  
rock from Detroit  country & western _  
FRIJID PINK  NARVEL FELTS  
and formerly of Ides of March  and South Bend's own  
Jim Peterik  So1t~ Sllore  
Blacksto1e,  a1d fi1als of  
a1d TOUCH  BaHie of Ue h1ds  
battle of the bands 11:00 a.m. -­-7:00 p.m. daily! llhUY Flreworls Dlsolay corn IOasi/Sausage/Retreshments Tickets: $7.50 for three day pass; 54.00 for Friday and Sunday individual day tickets; $3.00 for Saturd&)' tickets and now on sale at the foUowing River City Review Ticket Outlets: Just For The Record (Mishawaka), Boogie Records (Mishawaka), Record Joint (Niles), Suspended Chord (Eithart & Goshen), Notre Dame Student Unicn, Pandora's (South Bend), Jennifer's (Scottsdale Mall), World of Sound (Plymouth) and Cripe's Home Entertainment Ce•ter (Nappannee). Stay tuned to WRBR for further details. Outdoors at Wander Conservation Club 13040 Day ~d·Mishawaka Directions from South Bend: Edison Rd. East to dead-end at Grape Rd. North I block to Day Road. Take Day Road East 4 miles. Gat!'s open 4:00 p.m. Friday, 11:00 a.m. Saturday and Sunday. ·  

.-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilliiiiillliliiiiii..._.W.:..__ ·.. 
'n slugging 
original cost, less depreciation, but he said details were yet to be worked out. 
Under "fair share," the rate would be the same for the first 450 kilowatt hours of usage and would vary after that according to the amount of usage. Conrad said there would be at least five separate "fair share" rates, in­stead of one to be applied state­wide. 
Eliminating fuel adjustment charges would lead to utilities asking for rate increasing to offset higher fuel costs, Conrad said, but he doubted that rates would rise as much as present fuel adjustment costs. 
~ 

------1 
~ 
Wendesday, September 8, 1976 the observer 7
Students, colleges surveyed l 
I I
Coed living is 'more natural' environment i l 
j 
by Maureen O'Brien '. Staff Reporter 

The results of a Student Life Council (SLC) survey on coed housing, alcohol usage and social life at Notre Dame indicate 82% of Notre Dame students favor coed housing while 16% oppose it. Of the 1100 students interviewed, upperclassmen favor coed housing more than underclassmen. Men favor it more than women. 
The survey, conducted by the SLC with the help of the Social Science Training Research Lab, professional pollsters, was promp­ted by a 1975 Committee on Undergraduate Life report which recommended coed housing at Notre Dame. 
Although 82 percent favored coed housing, only 79 percent said they would live in a coed dorm. 
When asked if coed housing was inconsistent with Notre Dame's Catholic character, 9 percent strongly agreed, 12 percent agreed somewhat, 23 percent disagreed somewhat and 56 percent strongly disagreed. 
Students generally believed coed dorms would promote "increased interaction and provide for a more 
*The Observer 
Night Editor -Dan Sanchez Ass't Night Editor-W. S. Nichol Layout -Mo Flynn, Clare Leary 
Copy Reader -Don Reimer Day Editor-Maureen Flynn Sports -Fred Herbst Typists.-Anne Gierr, Mel Celeste, Judy Arenson, Katie Doman Night Controller·. Don Roos 
Special thanks to Don Reimer, Karen Hinks, and Kevin Boyle fo their miniature contributions whic made this a memorable even;n
€. 

nal:ur;;;. "'nvironment, '' as stated in the survey report. 
About 29 percent of the students in favor of coed housing preferred section by section arrangements; while 28 percent wanted floor by floor; 26 percent room by room; 1S percent adjoining dorms and 2 percent some other type of coed housing. 
Over 58 percent of the students surveyed wanted 24-hour visitation in the dorms. More than 21 percent wanted longer visitation hours than present. About 17 percent agreed with present parie­tal regulations, 2 percent wanted stricter parietals. 
About 63 percent of the students felt there should be husband-wife rector teams in some halls, while 34 percent of the students were op­posed to the idea. 
Students Drink More 

When the students were asked if they drank more since coming to Notre Dame, 47 percent said they did; 37 percent said they drank the same amount and 15 percent said they drank less. 
When asked why they drank, most students said for the enjoy­ment of taste. The second most 
Carter jostled by 'Lifers' 
SCRANTON, Pa. (AP)-Jimmy 
Carter was jostled in a shouting 
anti-abortion demonstration Tues­
day night as he tried to shake 
hands in crowd outside his hotel in 
downtown Scranton. 
His Secret Service bodyguards 
formed a protective ring around 
him and led him into the hotel. He 
was not injured. 
"Life, Life, Life, Life," yelled 
the demonstrators. Carter sup­
porters shouted back: "WE want 
Carter. We want Carter." The 
~banting reached a screaming 
pitch. 
Fair features potted pot 
PALMER, Alaska (AP)-There was a new contender in the potted plant division at the Alaska State Fair this year. For a few hours, a five-foot marijuana stalk nestled among the Christmas cactus and coleus. 
The Sheep Mountain home­steader who entered the specimen, Florence Sawby, said a friend "was entering needlepoint and I wanted to so something, too. He said, 
'Why don't you enter a pot plant?' " 
Mrs. Sawby said she became suspicious when she saw visitors. snicker as they passed the statu­esque entry. She requested its withdrawal after receiving positive identification. 
The presence of the marijuana plant did not violate state law, but it constituted a criminal act under federal statutes. 
CINEMA 77 PRESENTS 
Michaelangelo Antonioni's 
THE PASSENGER 
starring 
Jack Nicholson& Maria Schnieder 
Engineering Auditorium Admission $1.00 Tuesday & Wednesday Sept. 7,8 
7:30 & 1O:OOpm PATRON CARDS ON SALE 
AT FILM FOR $5 GOOD FOR ALL TEN FILMS 
popular reason for drinking was to be sociable. The third most popular answer was "nothing better to do at Notre Dame." 
Students were also asked to respond to the statement: ''There is a healthy atmosphere between men and women at Notre Dame." Only 4 percent of the students agreed strongly with the state­ment; 2S percent agreed some­what, 43 percent disagreed some­what and 28 percent disagreed strongly. A larger percentage of underclassmen than upperclass­men felt there was a healthy atmosphere between men and wo­men. 
Other Universities Surveyed 
The SLC also sent a questionaire to twelve other collegiate institu­

tions in the nation. Seven of these 
replied. They were: Cornell, 
Georgetown, Yale, Haverford, Bos­
ton College, Princeton and the . University of Michigan. 
The average number of years that coed housing had been offered at these schools was 7.S years, with S being the lowest number and 13 the highest. 
According to the SLC Survey 

Results, "The main reasons given 
for providing coed housing were 
student opinion as well as a desire 
for a 'natural' Jiving situation. 
Other motivations included a desire 
for greater security within wo­
men's dorms, a lower noise level 
and a means of curbing damage." 
The Survey Results also stated: 

''All of the schools responding 
l
reported a positive effect on stu­

l
dent life, as well as a favorable 

~
reaction among students. Most 

j
cited a more relaxed atmosphere, 

l
and less strain in male-female 

I
relationships." "Problems encountered in the 

' j
programs were few in number," according to the Survey Results. "One school reported a decrease in privacy, which bothered some stu­dents. Other disadvantages inclu­ded not enough single-sex housing. and on the other hand." not enough coed housing to handle the de­mand.'' 

The SLC will now form a commit­tee which will draft a proposal concerning coed housing. The proposal wiH then be presented to the SLC. If the SLC passed the proposal, they will present it to the Board of Trustees. 
Activities night to be held 
by M•IIY Ann Layden Staff Reporter 
Student Activities Night will be held for all Notre Dame and St. Mary's students to meet and join the various clubs and organizations in the LaFortune Student Center on Monday, Sept.13from 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. 

jodie Korth, who is organizing Activities Night, said that repre­sentatives of the clubs will be there to acquaint interested students with their organizations. 
Activities include student gov­ernment, the Student Union, cam­

pus media and services, volunteer service groups, sports, academic and music clubs, as well as minority and other interest groups. The Freshman Orientation Com­mittee is sponsoring the evening, but Korth stressed that activities night is not open only to freshmen. ''the purpose of Activities Night is to give students the opportunity to meet representatives of the specific clubs that they might like to get involved with," Korth commented. 
"It's the one time all year when the clubs get together to introduce themselves to the students." 
Offices in LaFortune Student Center, including those of the student government, Student Uni­on, and publications will be open for visitors. The various sports clubs will meet in the LaFortune basement, and the other special interest clubs and services will be in the ballroom on the second floor. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will also perform in LaFortune at 8:30 p.m. 
The Student Activities Office in LaFortune, the University directory and the Ombudsman service pro­vide a complete listing of all activities, people to contact, and more information. Each club is specialized so that students can meet others with shared interests. Korth added that, • • Although stud­ies require much time, the time one puts into club activities is very worthwhile." 
Funded for defense alone 
Civil Defense limited in scope 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The government is requiring states and 

localities  to  limit  their  use  of  
federal  civil  defense  funds  to  
preparations  for  nuclear  attack  

rather than for natural disasters such as floods, hurricanes and tornadoes. 
The new requirement is a change in emphasis from the approach instituted in May 1973 by then­Defense Secretary Melvin Laird, which called for dual civil defense planning covering both natural disasters and nuclear attacks. 

, Although matching funds to state and local civil defense agencies will be limited beginning Oct. 1 to preparation for enemy nuclear attack, federally supported civil defense equipment and personnel 
FAST I 
TYPEWRITER 
SERVICE 

can be used when natural disaster strikes. 
The dual approach is being de-emphasized to cut costs, as indicated by the Ford administra­tion's proposal earlier this year for a $71-million civil defense budget, down $21 million from fiscal 1976. 
However, the new policy is not expected to bring a significant cut in the amount of federal money going to the states, cities and counties to support civil defense organizations because Congress turned aside the administration request and approriated S82.S mil­lion in the new year. 
Congress also has allocated $29.6 million, the same amount as in fiscal1976, for SO-SO matching of state and local funds for civil defense programs for the new 1977 fiscal year. · 
In addition to the $29.6 million to help pay salaries of some 6,000 state and local civil defense per­sonnel, the civil defense agency has programmed nearly S10 million in matching funds for emergency operating centers, communications equipment and warning systems. 
States and localities are expected to gear their disaster planning activity to the potential of enemy nuclear attack, with the knowledge that communication and warning facilities and personnel also can be used for peacetime rescue opera­tions if natural disaster strikes. 
"It is. a matter of emphasis," one official said. "We are going to insist, as we must under the law, that our federal money be used for nuclear attack preparedness, and that benefits in natural disasters flow from that, rather than the other way around." 
The civil defense program cur­rently concentrates on "crisis relo­cation planning" for moving people from high-risk areas near military bases and cities that are prime targets for nuclear attack. 
BEFORE 
you swallow whatever that thing is in front of you!! 
Whv not write about it? Observer reporters meeting tonight at 10 
Campus Ministry to occupy second office 
by Martha Fanning Senior Staff Reporter 
Campus Ministry will soon open 1 second office in the former aundry pick-up area of Badin Hall, Lccording to Fr. William Toohey, :::hairman of Campus Ministry. 
The second location will relieve he over crowding in the Memorial jbrary office. The basement area n Badin is being renovated into our offices and a large reception .rea. 

"In the past, we have had three 'ull-time staff members who had no Jlace to meet privately with· stu­ients for counselling or conversa­ion," commented Toohey. "The 1ew offices will be primarily of hose three." 
Frs. Tom McNally.Daniel Jenky, md Brother Joe Me Taggert, will nove into the new offices. The ourth room will be occupied by \.evin Kearney, a deacon, recently 1ired as a full-time member of the ~ampus Ministry staff. 
"It has been very hard for them J operate," remarked Toohey. "They have been working under a 1andicap. "Toohey and Sister Jane 'itz will continue to use the offices ·n the first floor of the library. 

The search for additional space egan last year when Toohey made n official request io Brother Just 'aczesny. Various solutions were Jnsidered, however, none were ound to be acceptable. 
"We were looking for a place ;hich was conveniently located and ccessible to students, "Toohey ex­olained. "There didn't seem to be ny around." 
After the decision to close the aundry pick-up points was made, 
Herbst receives scholarship 
by Chris Datzman Staff Reporter 

• Fred Herbst, sports editor of the Observer, has been awarded a journalism scholarship provided by the Gannett Newspaper Founda­
. tion of Washington, D.C. Herbst, a senior American Studies Major, is currently beginning his third year on the Observer and is planning a career in journalism. 
Herbst was among a list of some twenty students prepared by the American Studies Department on the basis of classroom and practical experience with campus media. The list was then sent to the University Scholarship Committee who made the final decision. 
The scholarship was first an­nounced last June by Gannett Foundation President John A. Scott, a 1938 Notre Dame Graduate and former South bend newspaper executive. Scott also served as South Bend mayor and later pub­lished a Honolulu newspaper be­fore his appointment to his present position in January. At this time it is unknown if the scholarship will be available annually. 
Judicial Board positions open 

Applications are now being ac­cepted for the University Judicial Board. Any student may apply, and previous members are encour­aged to re-apply. Appplications may be obtained by contacting the secretary at the student govern­ment offices, and should be return­ed at the beginning of next week. The Judicial Board is an organiza­tion whose purpose is to provide students with an option to going directly to the dean when a severe disciplinary problem arises. Stu­dents on the board will sit along­side school officials and hear out the case of the student concerned. Bob Bode, judicial co-ordinator, stated, "It is an excellent way for students to get involved in their school and to assist their peers." 
Paczesny suggested Badin as a possible location for additional Campus Ministry offices. "It was the best available space for us," stated Toohey. 
Hours for the second location are not certain. Toohey speculated on an 11 a.m. to S p.m. arrangement. 

The opening of the new offices will also provide student employment. Toohey explained that two indivi­duals of the work-study program will be hired as receptionists, each working twelve hours a week. Applicants are in the process of being interviewed by the staff 

FvEA,i.-. NJ,US~e, 
..• this card will let you call long distance from your room faster and at less cost than any other way. 
If you live in a residence hall, making a long distance call can be a hassle. 
You either have to call collect (and that costs extra), or wait in line at a pay phone with a couple of pounds of change in your pocket. 
Well, there's a way around all that. Get your 
free STUDENT BILLING CARD from Indiana Bell. A Student Billing Card lets you make 
'.' ' I 
•• 0
..· 
-• ~ • 0 t. t. 0 • •' • I I .. ' 

members who will be occupying the additional offices. "Volunteers may be needed for the remaining hours ofthe week," added Toohey. 
Communications between the two offices will be maintained through the staff meetings held three times a week. There will be also be a phone connection for an immediate hook-up with both of­fices. 
No formal opening plans for the new location have been conceived. The new offices are expected to be ready within the next seven to ten days. 
long distance calls from the privacy of your room, and at direct-dial rates. That's a lot easier and more economical than any other way. Besides, there's no waiting in line, and you keep the change. To get your STUDENT BILLING CARD just call 237-8182. 
@ Indiana Bell 
Wednesday, September 8, 1976 the observer
Senate awaits report 
Undergraduates average B-, B: too high? 
by Maureen F1ynn Faculty Senate listened to progress Campus Editor reports from three of its standing 
Grade inflation, the abolishment committees and several of its of evening departmental exams officers. and University broadcasting pro­Prof. Robert Kerby, Chair of the grams are among the topics pro­Committee on Student Affairs, posed for investigation by the presented a preliminary report on Faculty Senate this year. the results of a committee survey 
In its first meeting of the on grade inflation, conducted academic year last night, the among the faculty last year. 
U.S. -Israeli dispute over oil-drilling rights 
by Arthur L. Gavshon Associated Press Writer 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Firing warning shots, Israel hustled an American oil ship out of its zone of the Gulf of Suez, Israeli authorities reported Tuesday. 
The State Department, confirm­ing the weekend shooting affair, emphasized Israeli gunners fired at marker buoys dropped by the vessel and not at American per­sonnel. 
The incident dramatized a long­festering but little-noticed dispute between the Jerusalem and Wash­ington governments over oil drill­ing rights in the 18-mile-wide gulf separating Egypt from Israeli-occu­pied territory. 
State Department spokesman Frederick Brown told reporters the two countries have for months been discussing "The complex legal problems" involved. He disclosed Under-secretary of State for Poli­tical Affairs Philip Habib sum­moned Israel's ambassador Simcha Dinitz for a rare Sunday meeting immediately after the shooting to insure new clashes are avoided. 
Asked if the United States had expressed anger over the affair to Israel, Brown said merely "We have made our position clear to the Israelis." This position is that the State Department cosiders Amoco, the big U.S. oil company, to have every right to drill for oil in the gulf under a 1964 concession granted by Egypt. Tpe concession relates to a precisely defined area straddling the dividing line between Egyptian and Israeli zones. 

Israel, however, contends the Egyptian concession effectively lapsed when Cairo lost control of part of the gulf. Under last year's disengagement of forces agree­ment, control of the waters of the gulf was divided between Israel and Egypt. Amoco has been drilling in the Egyptian zone. Israel insists it has the right to exercise total control over all vessels entering its zone. 
Part of the confusion between Israel and the United States seems to have stemmed from their dif­fering interpretation of what forms the area of disengagement. Israel considers the area extends into the gulf. The State Department said, "There is ·no such thing as a disengagement zone in the gulf of Suez." 
Noting that the final report was 
still being compiled by former 
committee chair Sheridan McCabe, 
Kerby told the Senate that the 
"raw numbers" indicate that there 
is "little sentiment (among he 
faculty) for the abandonment of a 
grading system." 

According to the preliminary 
survey results, 85 percentofthe 410 
faculty members who responded 
are in favor of retaining a grading 
system similar to the current one, 
Kerby said. 

The survey indicates that the 
average grade for an undergrad­
uate student is B or B-while that 
for a graduate student is A-or B. 

Sixty-two percent ofthose surveyed 
feel the grades they awarded were 
"about right," Kerby said, while 
34 percent feel they were too high 
and 1 percent feel they were too 
low. 
1 Has student quality risen? 

Seventy-two percent of the re­
sponding faculty believe that 
grades have risen over the past few 
years, while only 25 percent believe 
there has been a concurrent im­
provement in the quality of Notre 
Dame students. Fourteen percent 
believe there has been a rise in the 
quality of college students in 
general. 

Kerby told the Senate his com­
mittee will consider the completed 
report on the survey results before 
deciding what course of action to 
recommend to the Senate. 

In his report to the Faculty 
Senate, Chairman James Danehy 
noted that an executive order 
abplishing evening departmentals . and announced last spring has not been "officially printed and circu­lated," although .the Registrar is scheduling exams in accordance 
with it. 

Danehy noted that some faculty 
Classified Ads 
NOTICES 

BEER BEER BEER for the best buys on kegs and cases Call Chip 288-7878 
SKI ASPEN X-mas break, low low group rates, more info call in after­noons 2-4 John 288-26n 
Doc. Pierce's Saloon and Restaurant is hiring Full or Part-time NOW. Bartenders, waiters, waitresses, bus­boys. Will schedule around academic commitments. Apply in person bet­ween 2 and 4 PM at 120 N. Main Street, Mishawaka. Phone 255-7737. An equal opportunity employer. 
MORRISEY LOAN FUND $20-150 1 
day wait. 1 percent interest due in 30 days. LaFortune basement, M-F 11:15-12:15. 
Interested in 10-speeds? Help is needed to organize a club at NO-SMC. Call Russ 288-5192 
First meeting Gay Community of Notre Dame Sepr. 9. Information: PO Box 206 Notre Dame. 
Final copies of the 1976 Mock Conven­tion Platform are available to any interested student at the student gov't offices on 2nd floor LaFOrtune. Ask the secretary for a copy. 
Will teach flute in your spare time. 
Call Beth at 8112 for more info. 

Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. 
FOR RENT 

Room mate needed, own room. $62.50 per mo. plus utilities. 702 Howard N. No phone yet so come by-Robert .. 
4 bedroom house for rent in NO area. $350 plus deposit. Call Jim Zimmer, 616-445-247\, 7AM-4:30PM. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost at Kubiak's 8-31, 1 cross pen, great personal value. Reward. Call Pat 683-0956 
-------~-------­

Need 2 Pitt Tex. Call Tom at 7471 or 288-8417 
Needed-Football tickets to any ND home games. Call6617 ask for Mar, 
Need one Purdue ticket. Call Jack (alias Giaccimo) at 3493. 
Desparately need on Pitt Ticket for favorite Hoosier farm girl. Call tome at 8684. 
Desperately need 4 Pitt tickets. Call" N ed 4 t· · f A · p rf bl
Colleen 4-5170. e • IX or ~enca. e era y 
-----------~----padded seats. No npoffs, please. Call 
Tickets desperately needed. Any and 289-1431. 
all games. $$. Student and GA. Call --:---~-:--------­
John in afternoon 2-4 at288-261 3 2 pa1r GA P1tt t1ckets needed. Mark 
_______________:__ 2876-5713. 
Need one Pitt ticket Call Mary 1280. 
FIORSALE 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~· Fo;~;~~~;;~~~~~~~n 
Need 5 GA tix for Purdue. Call Tim room size. In excellent condition. 
1802. . Contact 233-3721. 
'G..\tix-n-;ededto;Pitt-;;;;;-Call Fore Sale 1973 ChevyVan interior 
6153. . finished. $2000. Call in afternoon 2-4 
----------------at288-2613. 
Desperately need 4 GA Pitt Tickets at ---------------­
least two together. Money is no 1967 VW Bug $265. Call 272-5435 
object. Call Dick 1657 or233-n 15. between3:30 and 5 PM. 
Oe-;-p-;r;;;;;;~d;;;-GA-Pltttkk;'t For sale: 2 rugs 10' by 14' dark green. Call Chuck 1376 -6 month old albums must be sold, 
_______:._________ perfect condition. Call Jim 3333 after 1 or 2 Pitt tickets. Call Sue or Terl 6:30 PM· 1880. ---------------­----------------'62 Mercedes 220, very good condi­Desperately need 2 tickets to Pitt !io~, _radials, stereo 8-track, electronic game. Call Joe283-1007. 1gn1t1on. $1200 or offer. 287-7693. 
o~p-;r;;~~dlPlttTI;:-wmPay '64 Dodge pick-up. Runs, needs work. 
tops. Call Charlie 6813. $200 or best offer. 272-7360. 
Ne-;d-1-Pftt~;w-~rd~tlcket.-Call Plants for sale. Peasonable prices. 920 JoAnn at 5489. Notre Dame. 232-5164. 
M~Le;~H";;;;~st;;,:;t;;.;;;-~~c-Ladi~s. 3-speed bicycle: excellent ing he is seeking a Purdue ticket. condition. $50. 272-7360. 
~~~~~~----------Tr~m~;t"--:Kin;~~;,-;;ct;jj;~~;w., 
1will pay top dollar for GA Pitt tickets with ~utes and deluxe case. $150. 
Call Tim 1868. Call M1ke, 8622. 
;,;;-;-Pittti~;t's-t;;'tr;i;-to; 2 M_exican Belts: leather, leatherlfauede Oregon. Call Anne 1362. ""':1th wooden or leather buckles. All ----------------s1zes only $10.00. Call "Big Money Bass guitarist,_ experienced, equip-Murt" anytime. 234-8858. ment, lights, looking for band. Call _W _____t -:-th-t·h--W-:-Id--ts-;G-:-­
M ike 8622 anna 51 WI e 1 ca . 1ve 'em 
_____:____________ a little Irish ~rief? Sit on the 
Roommates needed: l or 2 roommates Northwestern_ side Sept. 25 and pass a to share beautiful 4 bedroom hous at few up. For t1x call Mary at\825. 
1128 N.. Cleveland Ave. $50 per~: -----PERSONALs_____ 
plus uhL, close to campu. lnqu1reevenings or weekend. For info call-----;-----------­283_8356_ Ask for Ed or Terry. Reporte~ meeting--old, new and ----------------prosped1ve. Tonight at 10 In the 
Desperately need two Purdue Tix. Call Observer office. All invited. Russ at 8764. ---------------­----------------Male kitten-8 weeks old. Needs good 
Will trade 4 Pitt for 2 Purdue and 2· home. Call234-9189. 
Oregon-all GA. Call Paula at 6354. ---------------­----------------To Bersy tallas Betty. Becky, etc.), 
Need 3 or 4 roommates to share house Thanks for being ~-a good 'RA to a on E. Colfax. Low rent, good neighbor-fellow RA. W ~ flave to stick together hood. 284-5726. you know. 
-~-------------­
Willing to swap 2 Pitt tix for 2 Dear Chump, · Alabama or Purdue tix. Call co11e4 Happy 22nd birthday-over the hilL 314-227-8673. AskforJim. D.Q. 
----------------,---------------­
members were still unclear as to the terms of the new policy and to the extent of the problem (lack of free evening time tor students) which it was designed to alleviate. In an effort to determine the latter, a letter was sent by the Senate chairman to the department heads asking for the number and dates of evening exams, and the number of students involved for the 1975-1976 academic year. Danehy said a report on the responses from the departments should be ready be­fore the Senate meets again in October. · 
• At its meeting on April 7, 1976, the Senate passed a motion urging that departmental faculty be al­lowed to schedule their examina­tions whenever they best see fit and in the academiC interest. 
More educational programming 

By a consensus of the Senate and at the suggestion of its chairman, Prof. Irwin Press, the Committee on Faculty Affairs will be reviewing University-owned broadcasting facilities and making suggestions to the University for the upgrading 
of programming and management. 
The facilities to be considered art 
WNDU-TV, WNDU-AM radio and 
WSND-FM radio. 

Members of the Senate des­cribed student-run WSND as "one of two fine arts stations in the entire area" with a "miserly budget," a "dedicated staff' and "fine facilities." A strong interest was shown by several senators in promoting more educational pro­gramming at all three broadcasting stations. 
Other matters considered by the Senate last night concerned ROTC and Special Research Faculty re­presentation in the Faculty Senate and the possibility of obtaining special consumer rates and dis­counts for faculty members. 
The executive committee of the Faculty Senate will meet tomorrow night with members of the Uni­versity Budget Priorities Commit­tee. They will also meet Sept. 2ii with University administrators in an effort to "promote understand­ing" between the faculty and the administration. 
Officers for the 1976-77 academic year are James Danehy, chairman: William Biles, vice-chairman: Sarah Daugherty, secretary; and Bobby Farrow, treasurer. 
Local response to migrant food drive 'disappointing' 
by Paul Hess students of Notre Dame, asking for 
Staff Reporter non-perishable foods for the work­
ers' hungry families. 

"The response has been some­
Hearings continued well into the what less than encouraging," de­
night in Indianapolis Tuesday as clared Adelo. "We expected a 
migrant workers from Warren, Ind. little more than four grocery bagsfought for a settlement of their from a community of 10,000 peo­weeklong strike. ple."
Ricardo Parra of Notre Dame "Until a settlement is reached,
spearheaded the ,efforts of the these families have nothing,"
striking workers, who after spend­Adelo added. "All we can do now 
ing Friday night in jail decided to is keep hoping that some students 
present their case to the Indiana will respond to the needs of these judiciary. Their dispute is with the poor Mexican workers." Morgan Packing Company of War­In an effort to help these 
ren, a tomato processing plant families, the Campus Ministry has 
which employs the migrants. sent a telegram to Parra advising
Parra, the executive director of him to get in contact with the 
La Raza, a local group of citizens Justice and Peace Center. The 
concerned with helping the ~panish Center is an agency downtown 
community, was unavailable for through which the Campus Minis­
comment. However. another La try has set up a special fund for 
Raza member, Adam Macias, cited emergency situations. "Our aim is 
"better living conditions and the to help these people in any way 
procurement of the minimum 1possible," Fr. William Tooheywage" as the major grievances in 
said. 

the dispute. He added, "All Ricar­Adelo feels much the same way.
do is doing is trying to make sure "Certainly I'm disappointed, but 
that these people get a fair shake.'' what about them?" he says.
In a related development, efforts "These people have no savings or of the Notre Dame Student Bar resources. It's pretty much crucial Association to obtain food for the that we help them, I think, for if we 
workers' families have been thus don't, who will?" far, according to George Adelo, "It's a matter of consciousness "quite a disappointment." Adelo more than anything else," he adds. 
and some other law school students "You know, it's no Holiday Inn out made a plea last Friday to the there." 
District court intervenes in migrant-Morgan dispute 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. (AP) ­Thirty-eight migrants and a Roman Catholic priest pleaded no contest yesterday to contempt charges in 
U.S. District Court here. 
The migrants and the Rev. William Frigo of Indianapolis were among 46 persons arrested Friday morning for violating Judge Jesse Eschbach's order against barrica­~ing the Morgan Packing Co. plant in Warren. 
Judge Eschbach put the defen­dants on a 30-day probation and said they would not be sentenced unless they further violate his restraining order against the block­ade. 
A spokesman for the migrants said the blockade was to protest a lack of jobs for workers who had been recruited from Texas and Florida to work at the tomato processing plant. 
The 10-day walkout at the plant ended Sunday when migrants vo­ted to return to work following a negotiating session with Morgan officials. 
Baldemar Velasquez, a spokes­man for the Farm Labor Organizing Committee, said although no for­mal agreement was reached in that session, he considers some of the grievances settled. 
Included are the migrants' de­mands for a 10-hour work day, guaranteed hourly wages, imp­roved conditions at the camp and a written contract for the next grow­ing season. 
Meanwhile, the migrants' dis­pute is being aired on another front. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission met Tuesday night to consider making permanent an order barring Morgan from firing any of the migrants or evicting them from the Warren camp. 
The commission issued the e­mergency order late Friday night. It also prohibits the company from hiring local help unless the jobs are offered to migrants first. 
r • _1_0_-_-:_-_:_t-h:....:....::e~~O:....:b=--=-s--=e:....:r_v:...e.=....:...r___:W_:_:e:..:d:.:_n:::e=sd=a:!.y.!-,-=Se~p~t-=em=b=e<~8:!,~1:9~7-6 
r 
Muhammad Ali's wife wants divorce 
CHICAGO, (AP) -Khalilah Ali, of Los Angeles, confirmed details legal papers Friday in Show Low, Robert L. Hunter issued a tem­Williams said Hunter scheduled wife of heavyweight boxing cham­about the divorce action disclosed Ariz., where the heavyweight porary restraining order prohib­a hearing in Chicago Friday on pion Muhammad Ali, has filed for a by an assistant to Mrs. Ali who champion was training for a Sept. iting Ali from concealing or in any whether his temporary order divorce on grounds of mental declined to identify himself. 28 bout against challenger Ken way disposing of the assets and should be made permanent. He cruelty and desertion, her attorney Mrs. Ali's assistant said the suit Norton in Yankee Stadium at New properties of their marriage, in­said Mrs. Ali would be present, but says. was filed Thursday in Circuit Court York City. cluding receipts from the title bout that Ali was not required to 
The attorney, David W. Williams here. He said Ali was served with Mrs. Ali's spokesman said Judge against Norton. attend. 
Hewlett--Packard wrote the bookon advanced pocket calculators. 
And it~ yours free! 
I 
I I t 
~ ~ 
I 
I I I I I I l 
~ 
l t 
Hewlett-Packard built the world'sfirst advanced pocket calculator back in 1972. And led the way ever since. 
If you're about to invest in your first pocket calculator-one that will serve you through college and beyond -you'll need all the information you can get to make a wise decision. That's why Hewlett-Packard's put together an objective, informative 24-page guide entitled, "What To Look For Before You Buy An Advanced Calculator:' And it's yours-Free! 
In it you will find such helpful informa­tion as: A survey of types ofcalculators available; Programming; Logic systems; Appli­cations; Functions; Features; Construction; Accessories; Memory; Service and much, much more. 
Get your free copy of"What To Look For Before You Buy An Advanced Calculator:' at your campus bookstore or telephone 800-538·7922 (in Calif. 800-662·9862) toll-free for the name of your nearest dealer. 
HEWLETT-PACKARD PRESENTS THE FIRST FAMILY OF ADVANCED CALCULATORS. 
HP-21 Scientific. New low price. $80.00* The HP-21 makes short work of the technical calculations even so-called "non­technical" courses require. If you need a cal­culator for more than simple arithmetic . -this is it-especially at its new low price. 
• 
32 built-in functions and operations. 

• 
Addressable memory. 


DISPLAY 

• 
Performs all standard log and trig functions (in radi_ans or degrees). 

• 
Performs rectangular/polar conversion, register arithmetic and more. 

• 
Two selectable display modes: Fixed point and scientific. 

• 
Lowest-priced HP Scientific calculator. 


HP-22 Business Management 
$I65.oo~~ 

The HP-22 easily handles the kinds of calculations you face in business courses today, in management tomorrow. Breeze through business math calculations. Build existing statistical data into reliable forecasts. If you're going into business administration, this is the calculator for you. 
• 
Combines financial, mathematical and statistical capabilities. 

• 
Performs complex time-value-of-money computations including interest rates. 

• 
Performs rates of return and discounted cash flows for investment analysis. 

• 
Performs extended percent calculations, accumulated interest. amortization, etc. 

• 
Ten addressable memories. 

• 
Full decimal display control. 


HP-25C Scientific Programmable with Continuous Memory. $200.00* 
The HP-25C is our keystroke program­mable. Itcan solve automatically the repetitive problems every science and engineering student faces. What s more, its Continuous Memory capability lets you retain programs 

and data even when it'~ turned off. 
• 
Continuous memory capability. 

• 
72 built-in functions and operations. 

• 
Keystroke programmability. 

• 
Branching, conditional test and full editing capability. 

• 
Eight addressable memories. 

• 
We also offer the HP-25, (without the Con­tinuous Memory feature) for $145 .00:'' 


HP-27 Scientific/Plus 
$200.00* 
The HP-27 is for the science or engineer­ing student-whose course work extends into business administration. The reason: It features every pre-programmed scientific 
function we've ever offered, plus comprehen­sive stat and financial functions. That's why we've dubbed it our Scientific/Plus. 
• 28 pre-programmed exponential, log and trig functions, 15 statistical functions, 10 financial functions-53 in all. 
• 10 addressable memories-20 memories in all. 
• 
6 selective clearing options give you flexible use of memories. · 

• 
Fixed decimal, sdentific or engineering display formats. 


HEWLETT ~p] PACKARD 
Sales and service from 17 2 offices in 65 countries. Dept. 658G, 19310 Pruneridge Avenue, Cupertino, CA 95014. 
*Suggested retail price, excluding applicable state and local taxes-Continental U.S., Alaska and Hawaii. 616/29 ' . ' 
... ~ .. ,\ -~~~~'"' ~,,,, .. ,, .. ,&···~"·-~·­''".."'.-""'''''''''''''~''"'''''''""'''t'-''"'''1\'
... ~' '·. ''·'·' 

--.------...----~-~"--· 
... 
·wednesday, September 8, 1976 the observer 1 1 
But Administration hears no complaints 
Students remain critical of shuttle operation 
by Drew Bauer starts. campus." bad experience of the year," said O'Donnell said. "But the only 
Staff Reporter In addition, two local buses will Viator also said that a malfunc­Colleen Koch about the shuttle question we had concerning the 
run between the campuses every 15 tioning gate on U.S. 31 made the bus. "It made me miss my horse shuttle bus was one student asking 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's minutes between classes. The local shuttle bus go around on Angela till riding lessons. I pay $100 a if it was running.'' shuttle bus is receiving an ava­run between the library circle and it was fixed. semester for a little pleasure and if Tim Cretella, a Notre Dame lanche of student criticism ranging McCandless Hall and will stop Notre Dame's share of the the bus is late, it's useless." junior feels the students are partly from sloppy operations to an inate anywhere to pick up or drop off shuttle bus subsidize last year was Frank Bonder doesn't trust the to blame. "The only thing they do schedule, but the roar has yet to be students. Both busesarefree to the "in the neighborhood of between bus. "If I took the bus that was is complain. But they don't heard by the administration. students. In the evenings and on 25,000 and 30,000 dollars," esti­scheduled for my class, I would get complain to the right people." he 
Brother Viator, C.S.C. budget week-ends, the fare is 15 cents, an mated Viator. The reason for the to my class late. So I take an earlier said. "I bet they don't even look at co-ordinator for student affairs and increase of five cents from last five cents increase at night was bus," he said. the shcedule to see when the bus_ the "contact man" between the year. "because the bus company raised Angie Walker does the same comes. They just say it's late all University and the bus company "If there was a better system, I their basic rate by a few dollars." thing, taking the 8:30 bus to her the time." told The Observer that he its not would be the first to sa:) let'schange Although the increase will not pay 9:30 class just to make sure while The ,j)_bserver asked ovt;r ISO heard of any complaints about the it," said Bridget O'Donnell, direct­the difference, at least the universi­Mike Sheehan takes the 3:00 bus to students riding the bus if they shuttle bus. "Since I haven't heard or of the Ombudsman service. "I ty's share will not jump that much. his 4:15 class at St. Mary's carried a schedule. and only one of any complaints, I could not tell think that it is a good schedule. A "The only complaint I got was "I'm going to forget about the carried the schedule it ran last the bus company that anything is lot of hard work went into it.'' the five cents increase," said shuttle bus and buy a bike," said Tuesday. The Observer plans to wrong," he said. O'Donnell said Ombudsman ser­driver Mike Nolen. "I hope they Dolores Kotz after being late to her run the schedule aJ;(ain, and 
"We haven't received any com­vice changed the schedule last don't change the schedule. The German class. "My teacher told O'Donnell )has another plan to plaints from the University," said spring because ''we got a lot of times are just great!" me never to be late again. I told help soive the · sliti'ttle Michael Santa assistant operations complaints, and we decided to take Rosemary Borris, a freshman at him -to tell the bus driver that." .problem~ . She plans to post the manager for the bus company. "If the changing of the schedule on St. Mary's, said several people "I think they should do some­schedule and bus routes at all the we do receive any complaints, we ourselves because it seemed that missed classes last Wednesday thing about it," Pat Jones said bus stops in a few days. Hopefully will take action about them. We nobody else wanted to do it.'' whan the bus "stopped at LeMans after getting on a late bus. then, a good part of the problem want to keep everybody happy.'' "We worked with the fact that for 25 minutes and the bus driver "Maybe if a lot of people complain might be solved. 
"It's rotten," said freshman there was only 15 minutes between went inside. When he came out, about it, maybe only then will "I just hope for the best every­Janice Cooks after being 10 min­classes and we had to use the two the other bus was waiting right something happen." time I take the bus," said Mike utes late for her biology class buses as best as we could," behind him." "The Ombudsman Service is to Palmer. "I don't know what else I because of a late bus. "They O'Donnell added. "Hopefully the Peter Cannon, a freshman at investigate complaints,'' can do. I'm too lazy to walk." should get the bus running on three minutes the student has after Notre Dame, thinks that the schedule," she added. a class will be enough for them to schedule is off because the bus 
It doesn't run on schedule, it's catch the buses. And hopefully the drivers take long breaks. "I've always 5 or 10 minutes early or bus should get to the campus three been late to class because of this, I late," Kathy Cunleuy said. "I or four minutes before each class." can't wait forever for them to come 
think they should be on time. If "The bus drivers have said that back,'' he said. they put out a schedule, I think they can make this schedule,'' she "I wish they would post when they should stick to it.'' continued. "The trouble is that the drivers have breaks," stated 
Hendry Overton, one of the different bus drivers sometimes Mary Esther Hall after she waited shuttle drivers said, "It's no prob­take diferent routes." at nigh~ for a bus that never lem making the schedule. It's the "Nobody told me where to go," showed up. schedule itself. I'm to pick up said new shuttle driver Wilt Surra­According to Santa, the break at people at 9:05 to take them to their let. "Things are pretty messed up night for the driver is between 8:45 nine o'clock class." right now. Maybe they will get it p.m. and 9:15 p.m. There are 
According to the schedule drawn straightened out pretty soon.'' he breaks for the afternoon drivers up last year by the Ombudsman added. too, but since there are two buses Service, two express buses will "Usually in the beginning of the then, there should always be one depart simultaneously from the year, there might be some minor running. Nieuwland Science building and problems," Viator said. "There's "And if the drivers aren't run­the Moreau Parking Lot three a new dispatcher at the bus ning on schedule, we want to know minutes after class ends and reach company and it takes time for the about it." Santa added. An all too common occurence-the shuttle is seven minutes late the other campus before class drivers to get familiar with the "I was furious. It was my first and the students pile on. (Photo by janet Carney) 


FRESH LEAN PURE 
Ground 
Beef 
9~ 
BIRDSEYE

SUPER 
1016 HOWARD, SOUTH BEND 
CORNER ACROSS FROM NICKlES 
FRESH CRISP SOLID HEADS 
E&LCOUPON E&L COUPON 
I FLAV-0-RITE I I STA PUFF I I GRADE A LARGE 
Lettuce 
66CIIFABRIC ·9ael:EGGS DOZ.: :SoFTENER 
GAL:

3HEA~~ OO 
I Coupon prices go0d with this coupon II Coupon prices good with this coupon I NORTHWEST GROWN I and $7.00 3dd•tional purchase, II· and $7.00 additional purchase. 1 excluding alcohol & tobacco products. ~xcmding alcohol & tobacco productsBARTLETI PEARS 3Lss~J OO I One coupon per fan~1ly. Coupons expire II One coupon per family. Coupons expire I 
• Sat., Sept. 11,1976 ..1 I. Sat .. Sept 11.1976 .I
GOOD VALUE QUARTERED 1 LB. 
PKG. E&LCOUPON BANQUET FROZEN-8 VARIETIES 
MARGARINE 29e ------------E&L COUPON ------------­
I ELF BRAND -24 OZ. BTL. II POST CEREAL -9 oz 110X I 2 LB.
BUFFET SUPPERS PKG. 99" IPANCAKE ~9C11 HONEY-~ ~ cl: 
~S.D.A. INSPECTED PARTS MISSING . 
: SYRUP ~ ::COMBS ~~ 
SMALL TURKEYS 49~. 
I Coupon prices good with this coupon II Coupon prices Q00(1 with th1s coupon I I and $7.00 additional purchase. II and $7 00 t<ld•l"'"•'l pu•chase. 1 
-
HOURS: excluding alcohol & tobacco products. excludmg alcohol ,, ,,;t>,,c,~•' PIOl1ucts. MON. thru SAT. 8 A.M. to9 P.M. PRICES EFFECTIVE 1On~ coupon per family. Coupons II One coupnn :-,,, f:ln dv Coupons I exp1re Sat.. Sept 11, 1976 .I • cxp1re Sdt . Sept 11 1976 a
SUNDAY 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. THRU SAT. SEPT., 11 I 
.. 
--'--1-=2=-------'-'th:_:_e-=--=o-=b=-=s:o...e=-=-rv-=--=e:_:_r___W__:_:::_ed=n~esday, September 8, 1976 
Joe Yonto: the man behind the line 
by Ray O'Brien 

Over the past decade Notre Dame's defensive line has brought frustration to opposing college coaches, bruised bodies to alien runningbacks and faces of joy to thousands of Irish rooters. 
These displays of emotion have come about because of the un­ending work of one dedicated man and a large number of spirited, hard working young men. These outstanding players have come and gone but their astute teacher remains to lend his football exper­tise and enthusiastic approach to the raw, talented youth of tomor­row. 
Joe Yonto and Notre Dame's defensive line have become in­seperable entities. The two have influenced each other for the past twelve years. The man is his work and the work represents the man. Yonto's connection with the Uni­versity goes back over thirty years. 
A native of Orrville, Ohio, Yonto played fullback for the Fighting Irish in 1945 and switched to guard in 1946. A leg injury kept him out of action his senior year but instead of leaving the team Yonto remained on as assistant freshman coach. This began his coaching career. 
Yonto coached high school foot­ball a't St. Mary's in Michigan City, Ind., St. Stephen's in Port Huron,­Mich., St. Rita's and Mt. Carmel in Chicago and finally at Notre Dame High School in Niles, lll. At 
N.D.H.S. he directed his team to three straight Chicago Suburban Catholic League titles (from 1960 through 1962). Yonto tallied an impressive 96-42-7 record in these 16 years of coaching. 
In 1964 Y onto was appointed by new head coach, Ara Parseghian, to the Notre Dame staff. In seven of the past twelve years that Yonto has been around the defensive line has boasted at least one All-Ameri­can. The eleven All-Americans that were coached by this deman· ding mentor are Alan Page, Pete Duranko, Kevin Hardy, Mike McCoy, Walt Patulski, Greg Marx, Dick Arrington, Tom Regner, Mike Kadish, Mike Fanning and Steve Niehaus. 
Yonto avoided the old question of who was the best lineman he had ever coached by saying, "It is hard to pinpoint one because some were tackles and some were ends. Several were quick, a few were strong, and Niehaus was both." 
Over his twelve years of college coaching Y onto sees very little change in the physical aspect of the linemen's job. He pointed out that they still must hit and react the same and get off the ball quickly. Psychologically the players are more exposed to football and the world around them. The attitude of the players recruited by Notre Dame are no different then their counterparts ten years ago. 
Once again the Irish will boast a talented front four. However, the loss of Niehaus will not go un­noticed. Yonto commented, "The line must pick up on Niehaus' quickness and aggressiveness. Steve taught them a lot, now they must grow up and be put to the test." He indicated the line's strengths were their attitude and approach to the game and work ahead of them. The one weakness to be examined soon is their game experience as a group. 
Yonto is very enthusiastic about the upcoming Pittsburgh game. This no doubt has something to do with the fact that Tony Dorsett ran rough shod through , around, and over the defensive line last year. The Irish coach remarked, "We just played a bad game. We didn't corral Dorsett like we did O.J. (Simpson) and Mike Garrett. It left a sour taste in our mouth and we are happy and determined about meeting Pittsburgh early.'' 
Yonto is quick, however, in playing down the personal vendetta attitude; He added, "Dorsett is not our target. Concentrating on one person will only cause a breakdown somewhere else." Yonto would not make a prediction on keeping Dorsett under 100 yards but felt the real goal was to keep the entire Pittsburgh team under 100 yards. With Yonto's know-how and the Irish's new manpower the Pan­ther's offense and Tony Dorsett could be in for a different story this year. 

The 51 year old prominent coach has no aspirations of taking on a head coaching spot at another school. "Just being part of the Notre Dame picture is worth more than a head coaching job at other universities. The defensive line is my operation. I love it here and so does my family," he confided. 
Yonto's  family  consists  of  wife  
Betty,  daughters  MaryJo,  26,  
Carol, 25, Theresa, 19,  and  sons  

Tony, 23, Robert, 22, and Joey, 16. 
Hanratty takes cut in stride 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Quarter­injured list. back Terry Hanratty may have lost If Hanratty is not picked up by his job with the Pittsburgh Steel­another team, he becomes a free ers, but he hasn't lost his sense of agent. humor. The Butler, Pa. native has played 
"Maybe they'll wear black arm in just four league games· in the bands now that I'm gone," quip­past two years, but he became Jl ped the shaggy-haired mustachi­fixture on the sidelines, easily oed veteran from Notre Dame. identified by his baseball cap and 
Hanratty was waived by the clipboard. He was also the team's Steelers, who had to pare their comedian. roster down to the league limit of "I don't know if there is a 43 players. Nine others were either capable replacement for me,'' Han­waived, traded· or placed on the ratty joked. "I've been grooming 
Tony Pace 


... 
AFC Predictions 
Pittsburgh again? 
The ever-expanding National Football League will open its 1976 season this Sunday, Sept. 12, with two new teams and many new faces. The divisional races in both conferences should be tight, and in this first of two articles is my prognostication for the divisional winners in the American Football Conference. 
AFCEAST MIAMI -Don Shula always receives premium performances from his Dolphins and, even with the influx of young talent; this year snould be no exception. Players such as RB Benny Malone, WR Nate Moore, and LB Steve Towle should reach all-star status. The return of QB Bob Greise makes this one of the most stable teams in the AFC.' BALTIMORE -The Colts are the most talented team ~n this division and, ordinarily, they would get the nod for the top spot. This, however, is anything but an ordinary situation. The Finley -esque antics of owner Robert Irsay have forced the resignation of Ted Marchibroda, 1975's Coach of the Year in the NFL. Unless this situation is stabilized the nickname "Looney Tunes" could apply to more than the Colt's defensive line. BUFFALO -The departure of Ahmad Rashad and J.D. Hill, coupled with the unresolved status of 0. J. Simpson, has negated the power supplied by Reggie McKenzie's Electric Company. The defense will be as porous as ever. The Bills would do well to finish third. NEW YORK JETS-New coach Lou Holtz still has the arm of Joe Namath, 
. but he has lost the legs of John Riggins. Ed Marinaro will help at running back, but he cannot replace Big John. In their final exhibition encounter the defense started four rookies, three at linebacker. It could be a long season..
• 
NEW ENGLAND -The fortunes of the Patriots this season will hinge on the amount of time needed to acclimate the Pats' younger players. Big seasons from the likes of Sam Cunningham, Steve Grogan, Mike Haynes, and Tim Fox could mean a .500 season. The tedious schedule, however, should keep this from happening. 
AFC CENTRAL 
PITTSBURGH • The champion Steelers are the target of every team in the league as they attempt to become the first franchise to win three consecutive Super Bowl titles. With the cleparture of Terry Hanratty and defense is not as formidable, but the addition of Coy Bacon will improve the trench corps to contender caliber. The Bengals will be heard from in the playoffs. HOUSTON • Oiler coach "Bum" Phillips had a country club atmosphere at his pre-season camp, and his troops were walloped in some exhibition contests. They should be ready for the opening of the season, but they are in football's toughest division. Even ifthis season does not bring a playoff berth, at least Billy "White Shoes" Johnson will make it exciting for Oiler fans. CLEVELAND -Paul Warfield returns to his former· club and, with the development of Greg Pruitt, the Browns' offense should be much improved. Mike Phipps is the key to the level of offensive attainment. The defense, with top players Jerry Sherk, Mack Mitchell and Thorn Darden, must avoid injuries because it Jacks depth. The Browns will be improved, but they are in a tough division. 
AFCWEST 
OAKLAND • The Raiders are the perennial pre-season favorites in the AFC West. The Ken Stabler-led offense and the Otis Sistrunk-led defense are the class of the West. AI Davis' keen eye for talent has brought the Raiders to the doorstep very often, and this could be their year. KANSAS CITY -Paul Wiggin has done an admirable job of rebuilding the Chiefs, and 1976 should see further improvements. Running backs Woody Green and Ed Podolak are the best players on an otherwise ordinary offense. The defense has Willy Lanier, and nis presence along upgrades the Chiefs' defense. Kansas City should climb to second this year. DENVER -The return of Otis Armstrong will be welcomed by the Broncos' sagging offense. Steve Ramsey is not a proven NFL signal caller, and his growth at the position will determine the future of the team. Randy Gradishr is a future star atlinebackerbut the rest of the defense is only fair. The Broncos will be competitive but not to the extent of capturing a playoff berth. SAN DIEGO -Tommy Prothro's Chargers are the most difficult team in this division to evaluate. There is much young talent, such as quarterback Dan Fouts, defensive linemen Louie Keleher and Gary Johnson, and Jack Lambert over the years, but sometimes he has a tendency to take things too seriously." 
The club returns to Three Rivers Stadium to begin workouts for Sunday's season opener in Oakland and Hanratty's not so sure he'll even be missed. 
"I could see it coming," he said after Steeler President Dan Rooney called him with the news. "It wasn't only that I wasn't playing, but I wasn't even practicing with the offense. 
Hanratty has not really played since 1973 when he steered the team in nine games. After starting quarterback Terry Bradshaw had a poor playoff game against Oakland that year, Noll told Hanratty he would have an equal chance to win the job in 1974. 
But the players went on strike and Hanratty stayed out. He played three games that year, one the next and only brieflly in two games this pre-season. 
The backup job now falls to rookie Mike Kruczek, the Steelers' 
. second-round pick from Boston College who has completed 18 of 33 preseason passes for 117 yards, including three touchdowns and only one interception. 
"'It was one of the biggest surprises I've ever had," Kruczek said after hearing of Hanratty's dismissal. "I'm glad they have the confidence in me, but the thing Terry Hanratty offered was seven years experience.'' 
Coach Chuck Noll had little to say about his quest for the team's third straight Super Bowl with only two quarterbacks. 
"I don't think it is a problem," he said. "We're just going with the people we feel are best. It's as simple as that." 
Irish wrestlers to hold meeting 
There will be an organizational meeting for anyone interested in trying out for the Notre Dame wrestling team tomorrow afternoon at 4:30 in the wrestling room located in the ACC Pit. 
Joe Gilliam, Terry Bradshaw is left alone at the controls·of this well-oiled running backs Joe Washington and Don Woods, but their development machine. He should flourish this season. The road to the playoffs is has been slow. The Chargers could finish as high as second, but fourth Another member 
-
.,

rough, but the Steelers have been there before. • place seems more likely. 
CINCINNATI -New coach Bill Johnson has possibly the best team in the SEATTLE -The newest AFC entry is being warmly welcomed by the other Yesterday's article on the cheer­Bengals' nine-year existence. The always solid offense. has gained members of the conference, because each team has the opportunity to leaders failed to mention a member super-runner Archie Griffin and speedy Billy Brooks to pair with running play the Seahawks. Quarterback Jim Zorn is right off the sandlots, as are of this year's squad. He is Frank back Boobie Clark and game-breaking wide receiver Isaac Curtis. Ken many ofthe other players (?). Ex-Domer Steve Niehaus will probably see White, a senior from Oklahoma Anderson is the best QB in football, and he leads a potent offense. The more losses this year than during his entire Notre Dame career. City, Okla. 

