
--~------------------------------------------~----------....... 

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Vol. XI, No. 25 Tuesday, October 5, 1976 

Earl Butz voluntarily resigns 
Protesting not being able to play football on the grass, Dillon students hold their game on the sidewalk.[Photo by Dominick Yocius] 
Movie restrictions enforced in Engineering Auditorium 
Senator Vance Hartke 
by Gregg B. Bangs  organizations.  ''The Presidential  
Political Editor  candidates  meet  in  debate,  why  
can't he?" questioned Hartke.  

WASHINGTON -Agriculture secr­etary Earl L. Butz, embattled over voicing an obscene racial slur, resigned yesterday. Butz met with President Ford at the White House yesterday amid speculation that he would resign. 
A White House spokesman said an official announcement would be made shortly arter the meeting, but offered no guidance as to whether Butz was leaving the Cabinet. 
Butz' return to the White House followed an official reprimand from the President on Friday and charg­es from Democratic presidential candidate Jimmy Carter that Ford displayed a lack of leadership by allowing Butz to stay on the job. 
Before going to see Ford, Butz cancelled a speaking engagement at Camp Hill, Pa., scheduled later in the day, according to Ford campaign aides in Pennsylvania. The speech was to be made instead by Assistant Secretary John Kneb­el who would become acting secre­tary if Butz resigned. 
An Agriculture Department sour­ce told the Associated Press yeste­rday that the President had left it solely up to Butz himself as to whether the secretary stayed on the job. According to the source, Butz was asked to make up his own mind, then let the President know. 
Ford, meanwhile, was quoted as telling some black plant workers yesterday that Butz was "merely telling a story" with the offensive language but had been punished "very severly." 
Butz emphasized that at no time was pressure put on him by the White House to resign. He· then released a statement in which he said ''this is the price I pay for a gross indescrction in a private con­versation. The use of a bad racial commentary in no way reflects my 

by Marian Ulicny Staff Reporter 

Because of a disturbance at an 
Oct. 2 showing of Three Days of the Condor at the Engineering Auditor­im. certain restrictions will be placed upon students attending 
future films. 
According to CathyMalkus movie 

coordinator, someone brought sev­
eral bags of apples and oranges 
into the auditorium during the 
Saturday 11:30 showing. In the 
course of the movie, the fruit was 
thrown at the screen. "Luckily, it 
just stained it, but it could've been 
torn,'' Malkus stated. 
The new cinemascope screen has 
just been purchased this summer 
with Student Union funds. The 
screen cost $1500. 
Because of the fruit-throwing 

incident and past complaints about 
the stampeding at the doors, a 
meeting was called to discuss 
subsequent action. A decision was reached by Malkus, Kenn Ricci, Student Union director. Jenny Bur­ke, services commissioner and Marianne Morgan, comptroller. 
Malkus stated that, beginning with the next movie, "Nobody can bring any food into the auditoriu­m." She added, "Teachers have been complaing about the condition ofthe room. We go and clean it up afterward, but there's no reason 
you  should  have  to  do  that  for  
college students."  
"There  were  a  lot  of ways  we  

could've gone, but we mean it -no food," Malkus stressed. 
If there are repeated disturbanc­es in the future, "it could get drastic,'' Malkus warned. "If anything ever happens like that again, any major disturbance, the projectionist will cut the movie off, the lights will come on. and everyone will have to leave." 
Malkus noted that there has been no trouble with the behavior at the Cinema '77 serie~ films. 

real attitude." 

The explosive remarks were made on an airplane after the . Republican National Convt:.ntion in August. Their subsequent public­ation landed Butz in hot water last Friday when he was officially reprimanded by Ford. It also triggered numerous calls for his ouster. 
Democratic presidential cont­ender Jimmy Carter charged that Ford's failure to fire Butz on the spot displayed a lack of leadership. 
In his statement yesterday, Butz said that "by taking this action, I hope to remove even the appearan­ce of racism as an issue in the Ford campaign." 
"President Ford is a decent man with high moral values, who insists that every American be treated 
equally  and  with  dignity,"  Butz  
said.  
In  his  brief,  four-paragraph  

letter of re~ignation, Butz told the President: 
"I sincerely apologize for any offense that may have been caused by the unfortunate choice of langu­age used in a recent conversation reported publicly.'' 
Asked what he would do now, Butz replied, "Campaign for Presi­dent Ford." He said the resignaion should not be taken as a sign that the administration's farm policies could change. 
''That is why farmers should support Gerald Ford in the electi­on, he said. "That is why I will continue to work tirelessly for his election." Butz declined to answer 
(continued on page 2) 
Hartke: 

ar fails to give views 
In an informal talk at Howard last night, Coach Dan Devine discussed competiticn involved in college life as well as football. [Photo by Dominick Yocius.) 
Incumbent Indiana Democratic Senator Vance Hartke said the vital issue in his senatorial race with Republican Richard Lugar is the failure of Lugar to "give his views on issues." 
In an ·exclusive Observer inter­view this past Sunday at the Pulaski American Legion Hall in South Bend, Hartke said ''nobody ever gets an issue with Lugar. He talks a while, gives a written statement and leaves." 
"I want Dick Lugar to get out of his shell and meet with the American people," Hartke stated. Throughout this campaign, Hartke has consistently attacked Lugar for not meeting in debate with him in front of various labor and business 
He thought that the press has shown that Lugar's stands on the issues are "all right", while his are found to be "questionable." "Ask him some tough questions. He thinks he's the great white knight. I'd like to clear the air about him," he said. 
Although he said he would leave the question of whether the press was biased against him "up to us," Hartke said he couldn't understand why a negative article about him was in the front pages while one about Lugar was buried in the back pages. 
Referring to an article that said the citizens group, Common Cause, had found him to be the United States Senator receiving the high­est amount of financial gifts, 
Hartke said he found "nothing 
wrong" with receiving donations 
from special interest groups such 
as Indiana Teachers .. 
Although he worked on a CON 
RAIL bill that helped Indiana rail­
road systems. Hartke received 
campaign donations from the rail­
road industry and found "no 
conflict of interest.'· 
Hartke said the story on Lugar, 
also dealing with Common Cause 
allegations. "was far more impor­
tant". "Lugar has violated. the 
Federal Election Commission rules 
twice in this electio·n. Once with the 
ad (a televised ad that proclairr.ed 
Lugar's accomplishments as ma)or 
of Indianapolis) that was forced off 
the air and now with the illegal ad 
from the American Medical Asso, · 
iation. '' 
"The difference between nn 
getting donations from special 
interest groups and Lugarn getting 
funds is that his are illegal. The 
AMA gave him $10,000 and the law 
states that you can only get $5,000. 
The man is known for doing things 
like that," Hartke said. 
Hartke also attacked Lugar for 
the former mayor's answers to questions· regarding police corrup­. tion during his term in Indiana­polis. "The Grand Jury in Indiana­polis said there was no way Lugar couldn't have known about police 
scancals and kickbacks," he said. 
"When people ask Lugar why he 
didn't know about these doings. he 
gives a typical Nixon answer; 'I 
don't know what my aides are 
doin.l!'." 
Hartke called the proposed Hum­
phrey-Hawkins Bill a "dynamic 
piece of legislation designed to 
bring the unemployment rate from 
eight percent back down to three 
percent through a series of elem­
(continued on page 3) 

.----------------------------------------------­
-
2 

the observer Tuesday, Ckfober5, 1976 

~On Campus Today-
3:30pm colloquium. "what reviewers look for in evaluating a basic research proposal: an experiential view from nsf" by dr. david leege, ~.d. room 1132 library. 
4:30pm seminar. "species packing and niche complementarity among three species of sunfishes" by dr. earl werner, michigan state univ. galvin aud. coffee at 4 pm. 
45pm career information seminar. "opportunities for liberal 
.arts students in marketing" by fritz aberdoth, marketing support manager, xerox corp, oak brook, ill. Iafortune student center amphitheatre. 
7 30 pm panel discussion. "the music of the spheres" with abraham goetz, n.d. timothy o'meara, n.d., james danehy, n.d., and joseph rushton, n.d. architecture aud. 
meeting. charismatic prayer meeting. Iafortune
7:30 
pm student center. 


7:30 
& 10 pm film. "ugetsu" directd by mizo guchi. engineering aud. sponsored by cinema '77. tickets $1. 


7 30 pm reception. "each year a new begining welcome." speakers: sr. john miriam jones, n.d.. and mrs. clair duggan, wife of smc president. library aud. 
7:30pm speaker. digger phelps, head basketball coach. fisher basement. 
German national elections cut Chancellor's margin 
BONN West Germany AP--Chanc­ellor-Helmut Schmidt has barely survived a conservative surge in national elections that cut his coalition government's ruling mar­gin in parliament from 46 seats to eight. 
Final returns in Sunday's elect­ion. with 91 percent of those registered voting gave Schmidt's Social Democratic Party and its coalition partners, the Free Demo­crats, a combined total of 50.5 percent, a drop from the 54.2 percent they won in the 1972 election. 
Challenger Helmut Kohl, who campaigned with the slogan, "Fre­edom Instead of Socialism," led the conservative Christian Demo­crats to a popular vote of 48.6 percent--up from 44.9 percent in 1972. It was their best showing since West Germany's first chance­llor, Konrad Adenauer, won an absolute majority in 1957. 
Schmidt's survival as chancellor hinged on a renewed pledge by the coalition's junior partners, the Free Democrats, or liberals, to stick with the Social Democrats, giving the coalition a majority. 
The 57-year-old Schmidt said in a television broadcast that President Ford telephoned to congratulate him well before the final results were announced. Ford "expressed the opinion that we deserved it,'' he said. 
Kohl, 46, the state governor of Rhineland-Palatinate and a fresh face in national politics, still claim­ed victory and maintained that West German President Walter Scheel should ask him, as leader of the strongest political group to form the next government when the new parliament convenes Dec. 14. 
But Foreign Minister Hans-Die­trich Genscher, head of the Free Democrats, reaffirmed his cam­paign promise to stay with Schmidt's party and rejected Kohl's overture to join the Christ­ian Demo<.:rats in a liberal-conserv­ative coalition. 
After Swedish voters two weeks ago turned that country's Social Democratic government out of office Kohl asked German voters to "follow the Swedish example." Some did, but not enough to gain the conservatives an absolute ma­jority. 
Schmidt denied any , parallels with Sweden. West German'taxes are lower than Sweden's and the issue of nuclear power plants-blam­ed for the ouster of the Swedish Socialists--did not come up in West Germany. 
Preliminary analyses of the vot­ing indicated a swing of young voters to the conservative camp. Kohl's converstives also appeared to have made inroads into tradi­

tiona) Socialist bastions such as the 
Ruhr industrial region. 
Schmidt has taken pride in 
keeping West German inflation 
and unemployment--each rate is 
now about 4 percent--at a low for 
major Western nations. 
But Kohl and his Christian 
Democrats maintained that the 
economy should be still more stable 
in a country where financial secur­
ity is stressed. Many West Ger­
mans still remember the runaway 
inflation between the world wars. 
There were few differences 
between the Social Democrats and 
the Christian Democrats over im­
mediate goals. The campaign 
produced much namecalling: the 
Christian Democrats tried to lump 
the Social Democrats with Com­
munists as a threat to freedom. 
Schmidt labeled Kohl a puppet of 
Franz Josef Strauss, ultraconserva­
tive leader of the Christian Demo­
crats Bavarian wing. 
The Christian democrats hold an edge of 26-15 in the Bundesrat, which can veto domestic legislation and make governing difficult for Schmidt. 
Butz resigns 
(continued from page 1) 
any other questions. Under-secretary of Agriculture John Knebel, informed by the White House that he would replace Earl Butz, said Monday "was not really a very happy day." "I will do the best I can," the acting agruculture secretary was 
overheard telling President Ford's cabinet secretary by telephone from a Republican fund-faiser he­
re. His speech, given after the phone call, made no mention of Ford's request for him to take over the Agriculture Department. 
Afterwards, Knebel said he felt "eerie, very eerie. It's not really a very happy day. I had hoped it wouldn't come." He said he planned to talk to the White House later Monday, and added, "I will serve the President or I wouldn't be here today." 
At the airport, Knebel said he was very upset over the controver­sy surrounding Butz' remarks, which most saw as racial slurs. 
He said Butz had a good track record and sould policies. He added that it was his understandi­ng Butz had planned to resign in January anyway. 
Top aides probably will remain until after the election, Knebel said, adding that he did not expec t any radical operational changes until after the first of the year. 
"There will be morale problem­s," he added. 



SMC sophomores plan dinner 
by Eileen Lynch Staff Reporter 
The sophomore Class of St. Mary's is holding a buffet style' dinner Thursday, October 5, in the Clubhouse. It is scheduled in lieu of the sophomore picnic which had been postponed twice. 
Dinner will be served from 5:00 to 7:00 p.m. to the girls who had previously signed up for the picnic. 
The  dinner  is  open  only  to  St.  
Mary's students.  
"We thought  it  would  be  a  
great opportunity for  our  class to  

get to know each other and inform them of many upcoming events," said Terry Tuohy, sophomore class president. 
The picnic has been postponed until next spring due to transporta­tion and alcohol problems. It was originally to be held in Niles, Michigan but there was a problem with transportation. Bendix Woods 
Kansas to play at Morris Civic 
Rock group Kansas is set for a Sunday October 27 concert at South Bend's Morris Civic Auditorium. Texas band Point Blank will open the show. Advance tickets for the 
K.msas--=Point Blank concert are 
now on sate at Morns Civic and the following River City Review ticket outlets: Just for the Record (100 Center), Suspended Chord (Elk­hart).Record Joint (Niles) and Boogie Records (Mishawaka). 
The River City Review ticket agency also has ticket for these other upcoming concerts: Heart/ 
October 13 at Morris Civic; Ted 
Nugent/Montrose-October 18 at Wings Stadium, Kalamazoo, and Earth, Wind & Fire-October 15 at 
the Notre Dame ACC. 
was also proposed but there was difficulty finding a bus company to transport students to the park. If it had been held on either campus, liquor would not have been permit­ted. 
Tuohy noted, "If liquor was not allowed, the sophomore class offic­ers of Notre Dame informed us that the guys wouldn't come. It was also the beginning of the year and neither classes were completely organized. Time was running out and the weather was getting cold­er." 
At the dinner, upcoming events for the fall semester will be discussed The Sophomore formal .onNovember 5 is being held in Tippecanoe, Michigan. Another Happy Hour at Kubiak's is being planned along with a possible movie to be shown to raise money. Important information on Sophom­ore Parent's Weekend will be available and the college ring will be on displav. 
At the last ·class meeting, an afternoon tea was suggested to meet the Notre Dame sophomore class. ''At first, we all laughed, but we thought it might be fun,'' Tuohy stated. "It would be a tradition returned from yesteryear. I bet that's the way many of our parents met. It used to be the only way the St. Mary's girls got together with Notre Dame." 
w 

I Heartbreak
NO

1-House. 
G. B. Shaw's propheticcomedy.

SMC Od. 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 at 8:00p.m.
THEATRE 
All seats $2.50

O'LAUGHLIN ($2 Std-Fac-Staff)AUDITORIUM Special Rate 4 P!ays 
Phone: 284-4176 

' 
• : ••



I .. • 
• 

(*The Observer11 Special 10% Discount : 
Night Editor-Anita "Feel" H­
ogan 

~~~~c~~ght Editor-l'm a tired 
Layout Staff-The Ken­tucky Woman, Baby TJ, Fred Kunzinger, Sarge Features Layout-Katie "Ker­mit the Frog" Sports Layout-T-Bird Dahrling Typists-Kitty Conklin, Susan Shellenburger, Mel Celeste, Kathy Egbert 
Editorial Layout-Chris Smith Early Morning Typist-"Fin­gers" Chiames Day Editor-Mary Pat Tarpey Copy Reader-Cathy Nolan 
Photographer-Dominick  Yoc­ 
ius  
*You're  a  new  man,  Fred  
l Herbst! "Hey, Lady Killer!!"  J  

T hP Obserwr i~ publishPd Monday through F r1day and weekly dunng the summer SP'>Sion, PXCPpt dunng thP exam and vacat1on pPriods The Observer 1s publ1shed by students of thP Univf'rsity of NotrP Dame and St Mary'~ College Subscnpt1ons may be purchasPd for $20 ppr year ($10 per semestPr) from The Obser­ver, Box Q, NotrP Dame\ lnd1ana 46556 SPcond class po~tage pa1d, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
The ObservPr i·s a membE'r of the Associated PrE'ss. All reproduction rights arP resPrvPd 
arm 
Barber & Hair 
a·
Style Shop Open six days a week 
Sat 8 to 3:00 
1437 N. Ironwood 
South.Bend 
Appointment only.o 
277-0615 
's 
Close to Campus 
•• On All Merchandise To Notre Dame •. 
• & Saint Mary's Students. • ....................... 


Are you independent, creative, flexible; 
Join Father Bruce-a Paulist Father .. 
Father Bruce doesn't let his idealism go to waste ... or his love of God remain abstract. He's a doer-not just a dreamer. A man on the move-from his Paulist parish in downtown Manhattan over to The Juillard School of Music to talk to the students; across to Roosevelt Hospital to console the sick; down to the Tombs to visit the im­prisoned. You'll see him running with his guitar to meet his youth group (numbering over 100!)for prayer and recreation; or to conduct a longer retreat with teenagers and young adults. 
What motivates this young Paulist Father? His conviction that people can encounter God today-no matter what their ethnic group, economic class, or living envirol)ment.... 
Father Bruce joined the Paulists because he saw in them a unique chance to use all his talents in a free and creative way. But he did not want to work alone. He wanted a community; a fellowship of Catholic priests all committed to speaking the Gospel message in the 1 manydifferent idioms and in the many different ways it takesto trans­form our society. 
Coast to coast, the Paulists' scope is broad-from Manhattan to Greensboro to Houston to Los Angeles to Fairbanks. And so are their techniques-parish work, preaching, adult education, campus min­istry, publishing, mass communications. 
The joy and inner satisfaction Father Bruce experiences as a Paulist can also be yours. His unique gifts permit his personal con­tribution. Find out what your unique gifts can contribute. Discover our community. Tum your dreams into reality. 
Fill out the coupon below for more information about the Paulists. 
Dear Father DeSiano: Please send me more information on the work of the Paulists and the Paulist Priesthood. 

Rev. Frank DeSiano, C.S.P. Director of Vocations NAME --------------­PAULIST FATHERS Dept. A 124 STREET ADDRESS------------I 
415 West 59th Street CITY _________ STATE--ZIP-New York. N.Y. 10019 COLLEGE ATrENDING----------­
'CLASSOF------------------~1 


Sponsored by the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Celtic Society, Andreas O'Ceallachain spoke last night on the views of the 
I.R.A. [Photo by Dominick Yodus] 


Death penalty upheld 
WASHINGTON -The Supreme ions could be held in that state. Court yesterday cleared the way for Texas Atty. Gen. John Hill said it the resumption of executions for could be as long as two years murder and agreed to decide before executions are resumed whether the death penalty is const­there. In Georgia, the sentencing itutional for rape. courts will either reset execution 
The justices refused to reconsid­dates or stay the sentence, depen­er their decision of last July 2 ding on the individual case. upholding the death penalty laws of The last execution in the 
Florida, Georgia and Texas and United States took place in 1967 in ruling that in general the death Colorado. penalty is not a consitutionally In other _actions, the court: prohibited punishment for murder­-Agreed to review an Arizona ers. Supreme Court decision upholding
In the same order, they set state rules, similar to those in most aside a stay issued July 22 by states, which prohibit lawyers from Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr., which advertising their fees and services. had held up executions while the 
-Agreed to review a Maryland request for reconsideration was law requiring independent politicalbeing weighed. candidates to file supporting sign­
In a separate action, 'the court atures eight months in advance to 
agreed to hear an appeal by a qualify for the ballot in presidentialGeorgia rapist in an effort to settle elections years. a question which it left undecided -Agreed to hear appeals by the in its July 2 opinion: is the death Justice Department from two lower 
penalty an unconstitutionally cruel court rulings restricting the' powerand unucual punishment for a rape of government agents to search for in which no human life is taken? evidence in drug cases. The lower In New York, a spokesman for courts held that warrants were the legal Defense Fund said the needed to open suspicious envelo­fund would bring new legal actions pes passing through customs or a in lower federal courts in an effort footlocker to which agents had to prevent executions in the Georg­been led by marijuana-sniffing
a ia. Florida, and Texas cases. dog. 
There are 79 prisoners on death -Refused to reconsider its decisi­row in florida. 48 in Texas and 
on not to review a controversial more than SO in Georgia. busing order affecting boston sch­Florida Deputy Atty. Gen. James ools and declined to hear argumen­
H. Whisenand said it would be at 'ts against a court-ordered busing least six months before any execut-plan in Charlotte, N.C. 
Tuesday, October 5, 1976 
the observer 


I.R.A.: A new perspective 
by Greg Besio bly to produce stability and justice He concluded that "injusticeStaff Reporter in the north of Ireland." 
must come to be regarded as wrong''The records are there, Engla­before people ar'e forced to fightMr. Andreas O'Ceallachain, a nd has failed." O'Cealachain against it. A situation must emergemember of the legal and political emphasized that the Irish themsel­
where human rights and civil rightswing of the Irish Republican Army ves must "build institutions which will be guaranteed because politic­delivered a speech last night to 
are governed by consent. When a al institutions will rest and will over one hundred students in the 
man who is not a trained soldier have their support on respect andLibrary Auditorium. His appeara­takes up a gun and goes and risks concensus of the people and not on 
nce was sponsored by the Notre imprisonment, when ordinary peo­fear and terror.'' Dame-St. Mary's Celtic Society. ple do that, there must be a damn 
After his speech. Mr. O'Ceallac­His purpose while visiting the U.S. good reason for it," he comment­hain answered questions from theis to present the view of the I.R.A. ed. 

audience. 

to as many people as possible. O'Ceallachain's speech was ent­itled "For a Lasting Peace in 
Hartke blasts Lugar
Ireland,'' and focused on _historical causes of violence in Ireland and 
(continued from page 1) could not possibly support thethe civil rights rationale for this ents in the bill." He said unlike investiture bill. Lugar has comeviolence. 
what many Republicans are charg­out against the bill. saying there isIn his opening remarks, O'Ceall­ing, the government would be the adequate competition among theachain asked the audience to take a employer of last resort. oil comp:mies without havmg to new perspective on the situation in break them up, a~ this bill would
Turning his attention to Lugar's
lreland. ''Try and suspend any require.
views on the bill, Hartke asked if
emotional or prejudged views on "I don't believe a word he
Lugar "had read the bill". "He
what is happening," he urged. 
(Lugar) says." Hartke summed up.

calls it a boondoggle. To him, any
"Most people in the U.S. will admit "He is fast and loose with the truth
bill that's not passed is no good.
that they have strong views on the and it's high time we cleaned up
It's the same with National Health
the I.R.A. is and what it does. The 
the air."

Insurance; he's against that too,"
information that they have is not he added.
first hand." 

The general impression of the "Republicans, Lugar included. r.:-~;;-;s·;;··~public is that the conflict in Ireland have an insensitivity 1o people who is of a religious nature. "The want to work and an insensitivity to : dtfference!!! : 
central dividing issue is not a health needs." Hartke charged. 
: ,.,,..ltf I"'Ot : 

religious one," he stated. The "Where is their human concern? crux of the problem is the continui­Do they have plastic hearts?'' • MC AT o... ~ '"" •
. 1 .
"'"~·~· 

ng influence of Great Britain, Regarding the Oil Company Dives­
: DAT ..,. '~"" :

according to O'Ceallachain. titure Bill sponsored by fellow In order to rule, he continued, Indiana Democratic Senator Birch : LSA T ""'''~'"'''-• "you must stamp out and crush Bayh, Hartke thought the oil 
YOlu'"•ftOu' ~4
•• GRE:• 

anything which separates the subj­companies have an "over concent­

: GMA T ''"ely:·''"''' •

ec.t. people from the English peopl­ration of power" and "too many 
e. tax benefits." Although he was not : Q(AT Cou•lfl f~af Iff : 
: (pAT 
tOft\f:lly ui)Uitt :

"The way to move forward," sure if the divestiture bill was the O'Ceallachain said, "is to remove only way to deal with this problem, 
• VAT Iapr IKd'"" lor :

institutionalized injustice from Ire­he would "support a complete ,,.,., or cIUt •
: SAT 
ltUOft\ lftd fer uu •

land. The institutions North and investigation of divestiture hearin­
• FlEX ., '"PP'""'"''"' •

South rely orr repression, censors-gs." mllrr•JII e
• 

hip, and mass imprisonment." Hartke said Lugar was "so locked 
! ECFMG ...h:D''"' :

"There has been a polarizatio!] in with special interests," that he of the community in a large partr----------------.--, • ''""td ''"""' • due to the presence of the gritish .._'liee< .s:~~~<fc 
! NA T'l MED BDS : 

Army," he stated. "We do not <o"'~~o~ TO LOOK YOUR ~o.oeo,.. 
: NAT'l DENT BDS:

believe that the gradual withdrawal BEST TRY US. of the British Army will lead to an 
e "-Ao1t • 1:11.,., uart 8 WPflll : $ pnor to E•am •

immediate political solution but ~ 1-Mon-Sat .._'11-'-e< 
e Spt~ng & F111 compacu • what do believe is that the British -s~"'6<fc <o""'<'0 Q 
: Sof?'te cour ~• .1tl~red on a government has failed demonstra-~%eo,.. 9-9 c,v;:o0 
e Ma11;""''r c,,.,puwu e 

...................................,• • • • • • • • • •• 
• 
Stanley H _Kaplan Ed. Center •­

• 
831 Park Square Drive :



:Cinema 77 presents: : 
: Bloomington, Indiana 47401 • 
• (812)339-1127 •

i Mizoguchi's Venice Film Festival Winner J.. . . . . . . ..: 
: CHICAGO CENTER • • 1312) 764-5151 •

I U£~~~~ i• • 
: .~~$.·i
• Oct. 5,6 7:30 & 10:00 : 
.. -""""'-'..• ~.. 

: Eng. Aud. $1. Patrons free. : ~._ ..._. ...~:;-:.; ....,. :.~ 
~t·_,...,, ....... ·~ -,.....-~ 

~................................~ 

MAGIC 
MAN 
AND KRACKER 

Wednesday, Oct. 13th 7:30pm Morris Civic Auditorium South Bend, Indiana 

FROM 2-4 PM IN BALLROOM LAFORTUNE FOR 
ADV: Tickets $5.50 

NOTRE DAME SENIORS .
Morris Civil Auditorium Box Office and all River City Review Ticket Outlets! FROM 1-5 
Coming Oct. 17: r RO'!M 168 ~~.MANS F~R ST· M~RY·'S·S~NIORS:; 
--------------------------------------~· 
Tuesday, October 5,..1976 A 
singalong junk 

In loco parentis 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ jo e giII 
Two weeks ago. the Obseryer 
reprinted Fr. Burtchaell's essay on In loco parentis, stating that "to most students it (the policy) sut,;­gests rigid rules imposed by the 
administration which interfere with their private lives." The reasons for the reprinting, as the Observer stated. was " in the interest of clarity and in the hope of sparking some rational debate on how Notre Dame should be run." 
The theory and the objective were sound. A policy (or rather, the interpretation of said policy) such as in loco parentis affects students today just as much as it did four years ago, when the article was first printed. Once again, it must be examined and, most important­ly, understood. 

Burtchaell opened that "We (the administration) have the dubious privilege of entering the scene at exactly that awkward and restless period of breakaway (a matter of years rather than the crisis of the moment) when young men and women of 18-22 years' age are renegotiating their relations with their parents.'' He then stated that a university educator should stand in the same situation of "total concern for every feature of the child's life." 
Unfortunately, though, Burt­chaell did not say exactly what this "renegotiation" involved, nor did he specify the particular responsi­bilities of parent and child. He stated that the University was assuming the parental role, but he did not focus on the intrinsics of such a relationship. He spoke of authority administered through love. but he did not say how this was done. He stated that " a university educator should stand in the same situation," but once again, did not define this particular situation. 
And it is precisely the definition of these roles and the intrinsics of their interaction that are the utmost concern of the students, the " sons and daughters" of the administra­tion. 
It is true that the very meaning of the phrase in loco parentis implies a parent-child relationship, and perhaps from the standpoint of Fr. Burtchaell. the mere implication is an explanation in itself. And "it would be. except for one very important question: What kind of parent-child relationship has the University assumed? 
There are many kinds of families in this country, and in the same way, many modes of interaction within these families. Each mother and father is unique, just as each child is unique, and the relation­ships that they have with one another cannot be subjected to generalizations, especially under the label of a "parent-child rela­tionship," because there is simply no such animal. 
For example, in one family paternalistic authority might be clearly defined. A strict adherence to stringent rules might be a way of life to both child and parent, and the question of whether or not 
"father knows  best"  need  never  
arise.  All  involved  would  know  
that,  indeed,  father  does  know  

best, and parental authority in most matters would be the deciding factor. 
In other families, though, a more liberal atmosphere might prevail, in which the opinions of the offspring are not only respected, but also honored in any decisions of authority. The recognition that the numberical age of 21 is no longer an indication of maturity, that their"children" must now be dealt with as men and women, that mature interaction can exist within the confines of parental authority would be inherent in the parent­child relationship. In still·other families, a mixture of 
the two might exist, in which there is a constant pull by both parent and child for control. The relation­ship itself is proportional; as more 
responstblltty ts gtven the child, less is assigned to the parent. The abatement of the parental exercise of authority results in the augmen­
tation of the child's responsibility, 
and vice-versa. And if there is 
disagreement concerning this pro­
portion, enmity can result. 
Here at Notre Dame, there is 
disagreement concerning this pro­
portion. and with good reason, for 
the proportion has not been clearly 
defined. Fr. Burtchaell's essay 
presents an appealing picture of 
parent-child interaction as as­
sumed under the policy of in loco 
parentis, mentioning the concern 
the university educator has for his 
pupils as a parallel of the parent's 
concern for his child. It is a lovely 
concept of caring that goes beyond 
the standards of the "typical" 
American university, but as a 
practical answer to those disagree­
ing with the University policy, it 
fails. It is simply too ambiguous, 
for it does not specify the kind of 
parent-child relationship that in 
loco parentis implies, nor the 
proportions of responsibility that it 
assigns. 

Four years ago, Burtchaell wrote 
that "So many fathers and mothers 
feel their parenthood lifted from 
them and are at a loss to negotiate 
new ways of dealing with sons and 
daughters." If the feeling among 
students concerning in loco paren­
tis is of a liberal tone, and the 
feeling of the University is in 
opposition, the in the same way, 
the relationship between Universi­
ty and student should be renegoti­
ated, or at least defined in a clearer 
way. 

For if, as Burtchaell writes, the University "would not choose to stand elsewhere than in loco paren­tis. it would be nice to know exactly where they stand. God help us. 

...... 
c: 
0 
..c: 
Q.
·­

0 



iiiiiiiiiiiiiii p . 0 .B0 X Qiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
Prof. Storey lends hand: Thank you 
Dear Editor: 
The NC-SMC Hunger Coalition would like to note the help it has been offered by Prof. William Storey of the Theology department. 
Beginning this Wednesday at lunchtime, Prof Storey will collect outside the South Dining Hall on a weekly basis (the evening collec­tion for that day will be subse­quently dropped). We wish to thank Prof. Storey for his involve­ment with the Coalition, as it is by no means !)olely a student organiza­tion. We are happy to see different members of the ND-SMC Commu­nity offering their services. 
We would also like to thank the Notre Dame faculty for its valuable contributions. Th~ough the payroll deduction plan, the faculty donated over $13,000 last year to help meet the needs of the Third World. 
Needless to say, the students themselves also deserve thanks for the generosity they have shown in past years and again this year. 
We often like to refer to our situation here as a "·community," and through the concern/ that people on the campuses have exhibited, we begin to live up to the true meaning of the word as we unite in a common effort to help those less fortunate than us . 
Jack D'Aurora World Hunger ~alJtlon 
Angry biker raps 'Right People'. 
Dear Editor: 
I'm writing this in the hope it gets read by the right people in the Administration Building. Hey, 
right people, listen up!  Give  us  
bikers a break.  
There  must  be  thousands  of  

bikes on campus yet few safe 
places to park and lock. The alarming increase in bike thefts must make it evid(;mt that fence posts and traditional bike racks provide little security. It doesn't do much good to invest $10-$20 in a first-class bike lock only to find that just one wheel can be locked. 
Locking to a fence post is not much safer -with one snip the fence cable is cut and the bike lifted up and away. One simple solution to these problems would be the installation of the high-security bike racks currently in use at the South Bend Public Library. 
The bicycle serves as a major mode of transportation for NO and SMC students. It's worth some effort and expense. If thefts continue, fewer and fewer people will risk riding. We need some 
positive action-now.  Let's get our  
derailleurs  in  gear,  while  we've  
still got them!  

Tom Schlesinger 
Response to complaint about us 
Dear Editor: 
As I read Mr. Praschak's' com­ments about the Observer staff, I was · not very much swayed by them. 
Mr. Praschak, in his former position as an Observer reporter and a night editor, never took his job too serieusly. As I remember him, his primary goal was not putting together a good paper, as it should have been. His main interest was, rather, finishing as early as possible, even if quality suffered and the paper came out unreadable. His letter, which appeared on the Oct. 4, editorial page does not come with very much conviction backing it up. 
I think I speak for almost everyone on the Observer staff who knew Mr. Praschak when he work­ed for us. 
Love, Chris Smith Seventh Smash Year Th~ Observer 

r 
r 
"*The Observer an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Business Manager Torn Fronczak 
Advertising Manager Mike Miller 
F:wto Editor Tony Chifari 
Production Manager Martha L. ~="anning 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 ~ Phone•(219)283-8661 [NO] (219)284-5365 [SMC] 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Thomas 0' Neil  Editor-in-Chief  
Dan Sanchez  Managing Editor  
Chris Smith  Asst. Managing Ed.  
Gregg Bangs  Executive Editor  
Val Zurblis  Executive Editor  
Pat Hanifin  Editorial Editor  
Rob Mader  Exec. News Editor  
Maureen Flynn  Campus Editor  
Marti Hogan  St  Mary's Editor  
Don Reimer  Copy Editr,r  
Tim O'Reiley  Features Editor  
FrPd Herbst  Sports Editor  


"There is nothing like a Grateful Dead 
concert,"  proclaims  a  bumper  sticker  
distributed by their fan  club,  The Dead  
Heads.  Two  busloads  of  Notre  Dame  

students will probably agree, after travel­ing to Indianapolis last Friday (Oct. 1) to see the Dead at the Market Square Arena. 
The Grateful Dead, never noted for their punctuality, appeared on stage moments after the scheduled 7:30 show time. They started with the fast tune, "Bertha," the story of an over powered electric fan, which hopped along the floor in their office chasing anyone i'n sight. Since the arena is designed for sporting events, not concerts, this opening song served.mainly to work the bugs out of the P.A. system. 
After minor adjustments, the Dead played the Merle Haggard country western hit, "Mama Tried," with rhythm guit,arist Bob Weir singing lead vocals. "Deal", from Jerry Garcia's first album was next, and the sand play11d it to perfection with Garcia settling down and playing beautiful lead on his custom made guitar. Other highlights of the hour and fifteen minute first set were a faster, rock 'n' roll version of Weir's "Cassidy" with well placed twin lead guitars, a new, slow version of the Garcia-Robert Hunter, "Friend of the Devil", from the album "American Beau­ty", and another Garcia-Hunter song, "Scarlet Begonias", from the album "Mars Hotel" which developed into a short jam with .female vocalist, Donna Godchaux adding a nice touch. 
Royal Scam 

By Dom Salemi 
Walter Becker and Donald Fagen's latest work is a fascinating depiction of urban desolation and spiritual torpor. Society is seen as a careless and apathetic body that parasitically feeds on itself. The seeming improvosational quality of most of the lyrics and th~ simple melodies with their impromptu jazz-like progressions, add a sense of banality to this landscape that only underscores the images of greed and despair. The _"Royal Scam" is a horrifying portrait because it holds no possibilities for hope or redemption: 
"Kid Charlemagne," which opens the album, is a funky number that serves to introduce us to Becker and Fagin's world. Images of the psychedelic era with its "day-glo freaks" are seen as the freaks joining, the human race. The hero, who was thought to be fading like Jesus is now an outlaw, "picking up his test-tubes, "and a rip-off artist. 
The "Caves of Altamira" which follows closely on the heels of "Charlemagne," combines. a mellow sax and bouncy keyboard over an unobtrusive brass section which belies the seriousness of!he singer's indictments. Cave paintings, which were once a symbol of innocence and poignant memories for the narrator, now become a reminder of the inhumanity of man, who in spite of all his progress, is still: 
A wooly man without a face And a beast without a name. 

"Don't Take Me Alive," is an amusing cops and robbers fantasy that nevertheless delineates the roles of the individual. "Sign in Stranger," further defines societ­al attitudes and contrasts it with individual. perception. The world is a brutal place where one must "shout to stay alive" because in others eye's one is just a "scurvy brother" or a "zombie." 
The spiritual aspect of life is shown to be just as shallow as its social counterpart. The religious leader symbolized by those 
"who can't do anything without their 'Fez,' " are charlatans who profess to spiritual leadership only through the 
Tuesday, October 5, 1976 the observer 
----------Movies-----.......... 

After a relatively short break by Grateful Dead standards, the band came back for more. They started with a couple rock numbers and then broke into an extended version of "Help on the Way" and "Franklin's Tower" from their most recent studio album, "Blues for Allah." This was followed by another jam which included "Dancin' in the Streets", "The Wheel", "Goin' Down the Road Feelin Bad" and "Ship of Fools". The Dead ended the show with the Weir rocker "One More Saturday Night" and played "U.S. • Blues" as an encore. 
A Grateful Dead jam is an experience that one is not likely to forget. The musicians become totally involved with their creation. Twin Drummers Bill Kreutzmann and Mickey Hart lay down a magical beat. Phil Lesh plays the world's most unorthodox bass lines while Jerry Garcia soars over the crowd with the smoothest, most melodic lead guitar that I've ever heard. Unheralded pianist Keith Godchaux fills in any area that Garcia leaves unexplored, and Bob Weir ties everything together with his amazing rhythm guitar playing. 
The result is a musical communication with the listener which demands some response whether it is dancing, singing, or fainting in awe. The Dead do not rely on stage shows, verbal communication, or obnoxious walls of sound to get their message across to their audience. 
trappings of office. Even love, as portrayed in "Green Earrings" and "Everything You Did," brings no satisfaction or fulfillment. It is depicted as a spiritual and physical battle, for dominance goaded by the all consuming passions of lust and greed. For some as in "Haitain Divorce," there is an escape into romantic fantasy but for the rest there is only the "wrangl(ing) through the night." The final cut on the album is the most horrifying of all: It is an illustration of a modern waste-land,' a savage indictment of a civilization and culture that should have had as its foundations the hopes and visions of man. Becker and Fagin symbolically use the imigrant's move into the big cities to portray a spiritual search for meaning and fulfillment. These people who innocently embark on their quest are "hounded to the bottom," where they "learn to fear an angry race." Ultimately, they are left alone to die from want and neglect sacrificed to the "glory of The Royal Scam." Set off against this description are the carefully punctuated rhythms of Becker's lead and the percussion section with an echoing sax obligato; a despairing voice crying out against the apathy of a coldly efficient and mechanistic culture. Our culture. The c~lture of The Royal Scam. 
Albums courtesy of Mac's Record .Rack 
Mind Ouer Body 
By Anna Monardo 
The Tenent is a masterful production by Roman Polanski. It is a well co-ordinated whole which combines an intriguing plot and superb photography of Paris with acting of the highest quality; the effect is almost awesome. One must be forwarned however, that The Tenent is not a movie for the weak at heart. 
Melvin Douglas stars as a young office worker, Trofolski, who is innocently look­ing for a place to live as the movie begins, and by the end is overpowered by the concept of death. He rents an apartment in which the last tenent, a woman named Simone, has attempted suicide by jumping out of the window. He investigates the incident out of mere curiosity at first, but then coincidentally and unconsciously, is drawn into the world of Simone. 
First, he finds her black and yellow-flow­ered dress in the closet; then he meets her friend, Stella, at the hospital as they both visit Simone right before her death. Trofolski goes to the funeral mass and it is here, with the priest's sermon and the candle-lit crucifix, that the idea of death really strikes him. 
· This morbidity is immediately juxtapos­ed by the cheerful scene of a rowdy party that Trofolski is having in his apartment with his friends from "'ork. The friends are portrayed as coarse, loud, inconsiderate Americans, providing an excellent contrast for the well-mannered, quiet, and thought­ful Trofolski. Because the party is so loud, the neighbors begin the threats and intrusions which eventually create chaos of the young tenent's life. 
The suspet~se builds. He find~ a tooth hidden in 11. ;;,mall hole in the wall. He keeps seeing people who stand for hours in the 
W.C. across the courtyard from his window. Neighbors come to seek pity from him, and others come to threaten him. 
Cinema '77 
And somehow or other, Egyptian drawings and hieroglyphics get thrown in as well. It all comes to a climax with a very entertaining intermission. 
In the second half. Trofolski is struggling with the problems of exactly who is he? ­what is it that defines his being? He is losing himself to the power of the environment; to those around him and also to a new sense within his mind. Graduallv her life becomes Trofolski's life until he loses all control and Trofolski becomes Simone (in 'a literal sense}. lnevitablv, a large portion of her life (and now h•~) is involved with death, so Trofolski cannot escape it (or them). 
Trofolski's heigh•.ened paranoia is irri­tated by the semblance of propriety which his landlord tries to uphold. Trofolski imagines a conspiracy building up against him and the conclusion of the movie does not reveal if it is a conspiracy of Trofolski's mind or of his neighbors. Even though one does not really understand the essence of what is happening; the conclusion is so visually captivating that questions such as. "Is he dreaming that or did it really happen?". don't matter .verv much. 
Isabelle Adjani is good i.n her role as Stella. Simone's calm. uninhibited, and compassionate friend who becomes Trofol­ski's friend. Shelley Winters has a small but expertly performed part as the Con­cierge of the apartment building. Miss Winters never seems to be acting because her portrayals are always the ultimate essence of her character. She seems to have combined every characteristic of every Concierge to become the perfect Concierge. 
InThe Tenent Roman Polanski brings the sensitive mind together with a rather bizarre society, this union forming very creative extravaganza about the power of mind over body. 
Made in Japan 
By David O'Keefe 
"Photographed with the mystic beauty of a classic Japanese painting, Ugetsu tells a 16th-century ghostly legend of two peasant neighbors. The two men leave their families, one to become wealthy in the city, the other to fulfill his ambition to become a samurai warrior. The perfor­mance is reminiscent of the traditional Japanese theater with its symbolic style." 
The blurb for Kenji Mizoguchi's film is at least precise and correct. The photo­graphy is indeed delicately beautiful and highly reminiscent of Japanese art. The highly stylized, almost exaggerated perfor­mances do indeed owe much to the Japanese theater. But what the ad fails to say is abundantly clear as the film progresses: cross-cultural cinema is an artistic experience that can only be appreciated by those who know what to expect. As a result, the only audience that isn't too critically demanding is that composed of the intellectual elite who have cultivated and developed an understanding of Japanese film through exposure to it. That is not a derogation but a sad commentary on the provincialism of the American taste in film. ' Nevertheless, Ugetsu remains as one of the most visually beautiful masterworks in the history of film. Despite having been filmed in black and white (the movie was made in 1953), many shots, especially those of nature, stand as stunning artistic translations like no others that have been seen through the eye of the lens. 
The acting presents a particular prob­lem, though far from insurmountable, for the Western audience. Emotions and ideas are not expressed through dialogue, a 
The Features Page needs 
,

book reu•ewers and other writers... Contact Tim O'Reile~ at the Observer office (8661) 
tradition we have come to expect, but through the often exaggerated use of facial expressions, gestures and the entire body. Although it takes a while to get used to the difference, it is hardly a distraction from the action of the movie. 
What that action involves is the lives of two peasants, Genjuro and Tobei, who scratch out a living for themselves and their families by making and selling pottery. They are happy but restless men, thankful that they are not starving, but at the same time convinced that the world outside their tiny village holds untold wonders and riches for any man clever enough to take advantage of the opportuni­ties at hand. 
The rest of the film follows the pair as each pursues his personal dream. Each goes his own way, Tobei to become a rich and powerful samurai, Genjuro to enjoy a reputation as a master potter in the city. What Mizoguchi does so well is portray them impartially, allowing his audience to judge the men without the assistance of heavy-handed moralism. 
In the end, Tobei and Genjuro exper­ience remorse and disappointment when they realize their delusion and see what their Quixotic pursuits have done to their families. Tobei finds his wife a prostitute, a station she was reduced to after being raped by outlaws. Genjuro returns home to find his wife dead at the hands of starving soldiers who robbed and stabbed her. Mizoguchi tells all in a style as simple and honest as the peasants themselves and as a result makes very subtle yet extremely powerful statements about love, selfish­ness and happiness. 
/ 
the observer Tuesday, October 5, 1976 
~----~~~~~~~~------------
Hesburgh on Politics: In Need of a Vision 
Editor's Note: This exclusive OBSERVER 
Interview with Fr. Theodore Hesburgh 
C.S.C. took place last Friday afternoon. It is the first In a series of intervies with campus figures on the subject of politics. Fr. Hesburgh was questioned by Executive Editor Gregg Bangs, Editorial Editor Patrick Hanifln and Features Editor Tim O'ReUey. 
OBSERVER: What were your views of the 
recent debates? 
HESBURGH: My reaction to the debates, which I watched carefully, was that all the wrong questions were asked. I can't fault the candidates for that because they have to answer the kind of questions that are asked and once they heard who was asking the questions they had a pretty good idea what kind of questions they were going to be. And the questions you get are going to be mostly economic. I don't think the country is going to be saved by economy, I think it's going to be saved by vision. The trouble with just approaching the country's problems economically is that the right economic answer might not be the right social answer.I dug up an article last night that was very interesting since I wrote it four years a~o and it appeared in THE 
New York Times magazine section. 
The New York Times at that time, you may remember, endorsed McGovern. They spoke of a need of perception and things that had to be done in America, politically. socially, economically and mo­rally. as well as things that are right in the ~ense of priorities that gives precedence to human needs and publi~ integrity over the panoply of wealth and the arrogance of power. Now of course, that point of view didn't go over at all. Maybe it was put over badly by McGovern, but the fact is that Mr. Nixon was elected and what we got was the paloply of wealth and the arrogance of power. And it was interesting, I'll read you another paragraph from that article: 
"Both candidates say this campaign offers a choice on real issues as never before in this century. However, most campaign rhetoric tends to be negative, it does not get to the heart of the problem. No one wants to look at the heart of darkness. The real solutions are painful. Even ;;peaking about them is not the best way to · make friends and win votes. But the issues io remain." 
I would repeat this next paragraph ·xactly today: "What are the problems hat confront America today? The most 1eglected ones are mostly domestic pover­y, welfare urban blight lawlessness, flight 
o the suburbs, unemployment, cost of iving, taxes, housing, political corruption, mstable family life, drugs, education and Jusing, dissatisfaction among ethnic ~roups, to name a few." 
I wrote that four years ago and I still think it stands today. I think most of those problems were barely touched during the debates. Again, I don't want to blame the candidates because the type of questions asked them were fairly mechanical, techni­cal problems of budget and taxes money, gross national product, etc. And what the country really needs is a vision for what makes for the good life and the pursuit of happiness. And that just didn't come out. OBSERVER: Do you feel that there is a way the format of the debates can be ~hanged to bring the issues you mentioned to the forefront? 
HESBURGH: I was asked by CBS the other day what I felt the biggest problem confronting the candidates was and I told them the biggest problem confronting the candidates is to come thru as a human, to come thru as leaders with a .vision, who really sees where America is and where it should go. These are not technical economic problems, although economics are a part of them. But they are problems of a vision of America. I think America 
definitely needs a vision, which is basically one of justice and equal opportunity. OBSERVER: It's often said people vote their pocketbooks. How do you think a candidate can bring these Into the center of a debate and base a campaign on them and still win? HESBURGH: Well, Jack Kennedy did it in 1960 and won. He said, "Don't ask what the country can do for you, ask what you can do for the country." OBSERVER: Thus far, we've only had one of the four candidates you Invited to campus come to speak. In his speech, Walter Mondale made allusions to the 
J.F.K. campaign of 1960. ·He drew parallels to Jimmy Carter and Kennedy both overcoming a religious issue. Do you think Jimmy Carter has overcome or taken advantage of the issues of his religion and his southern heritage? HESBURGH: I suspect it's helped him with some people and hurt him with others, which is true with just about anything said in a campaign. On the other hand, I don't think it's anybody's business whether he's a Baptist or whatever. I think these are ancient prejudices that we ought to, put behind us. One problem Carter has is that he tries to be fairly candid. Both candidates have tried to do this. And they go and ask him a religious question and he answers it and the reporters say he's talking religion and he's really just answering the questions he's been asked. The press has a way of asking a leading question and then they turn around and hit him on the head on it. That makes for good press but not for a good campaign. I think it gets to a point where we overexpose our candidates on their person­al lives. I think most candidates should tell them it's none of their business. 
OBSERVER: Who are you, as a personal voter, looking at right now In the presiden­tial race? HESBURGH: I'm looking at both of them and I'm favoring neither because I've never favored a candidate and I don't think I should. I think I'm in a fairly highly visible position, too. The best way in the world for me to chop our alumni in two would be to come out for either side because they're pretty divided on the issues themselves. It's probably the same way with the faculty and the student body, too. Beyond that, as a priest, I would like to get away from the idea that the church tells people how to vote. I think people should do their own thinking and their own voting. OBSERVER: We'd like to take a look at the platforms. What are your feelings on the issue of busing? HESBURGH: From the same article I quoted earlier, I give my views on busing. First, the Supreme Court laid down very strict rules on busing which said busing could be used and should be used to attain the promise of the fourteenth amendment which is equal opportunity for all. And 
education is one of the biggest opportuni­ties we can have. Secondly, it just happens to be a fact the Supreme Court also said that kids should not be bused if its bad for their health and well being, or if its bad for their education. A second corollary would be that you don't bus kids from a good school to a worse school. You always bus kids from a worse school to a better school. That means, necessarily, if you look at the way the country is made up, that many black youngsters grow up in poor neighbor­hoods with very bad schools and very bad social conditions. And they're locked into that. 
Now, Mr. Nixon proposed that they couW only go to the next nearest school which also happens to be a ghetto school. So it's like going from one bad school to another bad school. That's ridiculous. 
What I'm trying to say is if the only way you can break the circle of poverty for a minority kid is to get him from a bad school to a good school, then you should get him to a good school no matter what it takes. And busing isn't such an unusual thing: over half the kids in America go to school on a bus. The only time anybody got e~cited about busing is when people thought it was favoring minorities. Then it became a terrible thing. But there are still half of the kids in America being bused to school. The important thing is not the bus ride, but the education at the end of the ride. Most parents are willing to let their kids take a ride if it will better the kid's education. OBSERVER: Then you seem to be favoring the position taken by the Democ­ratic plank. HESBURGH: I'm not tying it to planks because I don't think planks mean much. People write them, argue about them and forget about them the moment the election 
"is over. If you want to have some fun, go back and read the planks of the last election and see how much was done on them. I'm not hung up on planks, I'm hung up on pronciples. I'm hung up on the realistic solution of social problems. OBSERVER: What are your feelings on the ERA plank? HESBURGH: I'm in favor if it and that's no secret; I just wrote a chapter on a book for it. I think the whole history of America has been the enlargement of justice and the simple fact has been that justice has not been enlarged for women. When we said all men were created equal at the beginning of this country, that only applied for White-Anglo-Saxon protestant affluent free men. Nobody else could vote. Great principle, terrible performance. Ever since then, we didn't get the vote for women till 1920, that's a long time, the vote for blacks realisticallytill the 1960's and the vote for young people till just three years ago. So this is part of the total enlargement of rights for women. The whole question of ERA has been mucked up with issues like abortion, common restrooms and other such questions. I take the principle to be that women ought to have equal rights and if we need an amendment for that like we needed for the young people's vote, then let's have one. I don't think the country has ever gone backwards in its support of enlargement of justice. OBSERVER: You mentioned you didn't like the church to spread their opinion because It sounded like you were telllng people how to vote. A lot of people felt this Is what the Catholic bishops were doing when they Interviewed Carter and Ford. What did you think of that? 
HESBURGH: Oh, I was happy that they (the bishops)came out after both interviews and made a very strong statement saying they were not endorsing either candidate, nor would they depreciate either candi­date. They were just in'terested in moral issues and they just weren't interested in one. 
OBSERVER: Didn't they say they were disappointed In Carter's position and favored Ford? HESBURGH: That was just on one issue. They did not support either candidate on all the issues. OBSERVER: Then you think the bishops bandied the interviews well. HESBURGH: Yes, I think they handled it perfectly. OBSERVER: Do you think something can be done to make the campaigns shorter, a little more informative and more useful and realistic? HESBURGH: I think the campaign is a minefield at the moment. They last so long with so many irrelevant issues getting put down on the front page with so many false allegations made that when they are later shown to be false, all the damage is done. The thing is so long and the campaigning is so vigorous with long hours that the cangjdates get exhausted. Then the winner has to handle a very difficult job once the campaign is over. 
I would like to see much shorter campaigns. I would like to see things that get total exposure to the country such as national television programs. I think that can be done in a bright way with some imagination. I'd like to see each candidate speak to the country for an hour or two on what he thinks should be done for the country, what's wrong, what he is going to demand of the country. I think such an approach would educate the electorate. And I think it would also get them to decide on serious issues, not frivolous ones. It seems to me every camapign is shot through with frivolous issues. The important issues really get lost in the process. The idea that you get elected if you out-promise the other guy and blacken your opponent is not good, or if you speak to the prejudices of the people--these are really unworthy kinds of campaigns and I think we've strung it out to its worst form. It's high time we reorganized it. Some people I know who would make superb public leaders will simply not subject themselves to this kind of nonsense. OBSERVER: A few weeks ago Kenneth Reich of the L.A. Times wrote in an article that you found abortion permissable in some Instances. Would that be In the case of rape? 
HESBURGH: I said that when I took CAtholic theology back in 1939 I learned that there were cases, such as egtopic gestation, where the fertilized ovum starts developing in the Fallopian tubes instead of the womb and in those cases it is legitimate to perform an abortion because the development of the fetus is in an alien plac_e where its not natural to be in and the woman will bleed to death if it is not removed. It's a question of double effect where you choose the lesser of two evils. OBSERVER: Thank you, Fr. Hesburgh. HESBURGH: Thank you, I enjoyed it. 

ONCE 
PRESENTS 
HURRICANES 9 -12
Oldie's Night 
. '.25 DRAFTS 
$1.00 ALL NIGHT 
EVERY TUESDAY '.25 MIXED DRINKS live Country-Western entertainment Wednesday night! 
-
......----­

Tuesday, October 5, 1976 the observer 
ND receives $6000 in Kodak grants 
by Jack Pizzolato the graduate's fifth year of employ-his department would probably use the hiring of undergraduate stu-about two-thirds of our money is Staff Reporter ment. the money to support students and dents to aid faculty members on estimated $4.9 million package that 
2 3 4 5 6 

The Eastman Kodak Company has awarded $6,_000 in direct grants to Notre Dame, said James Murphy the univero:itv's assistant vice-pres­ident of Public Relations and Development. The grants are a part of the company's 1976 Educa­tiona! Aid Program. 
Responding to "the contribu­tions made by college and univer­isty graduates to the company's business success," Kodak is giving direct grants to those schools whose students have joined the company within five years of graduation. The grants, which for privately supported colleges and universities amount to $750 for each undergraduate or graduate year completed, are· made during 
Kodak requests that the money be distru.ibuted to the department in which the graduate received his degree, and that it be used for what the company terms "innovative programs" or undergraduate scho­larships rather than for operating expenses. 
Two separate grants of $3000 were made in the name of Notre Dame alumni, Dr. Paul B. Merkel, a Phd. in Chemistry, and James G. Fishburne, an M.B.A. in Econom­ics. Merkel completed his doctorate work at the university in 1971 while Fishburne received his und~rgrad­uate degree from Notre Dame in 1968. 
Chemistry Department Chair­man, Dr. Jeremiah Freeman said 
_______c.;.fl<r~/1:.:.~:.1~~~:~~ \~_:_~.'\J _________ 
'"'t.TO::<T::-.,:-:n:c,-o·""'o·u::Cu,-:-:.u;::-A,:-;,IUCC:,i The Observer lg''_"J~ y~~~-._.---­J:"'i-i;,;,tULNCY·n, '~&~iL-s -er.----k-1--(·10-"· -.s-u--e-~"' r:~· ..-, ,: ..·, ·.1-uirl,·-~~-. "1·;, -~~,:,,; 1••-~:-uu·;c-uu·,·u,,,·
umm . wee Y 1 J ,.H,.,,..,, L.v run, 
f~~.i-;;!H~~2.:or~~~~ ~~~~j; ~~~~~~~~~~1. ~.~,~ ; ••~l~~ ,\,~} ....r;·ir c_:,.:,}(.~-~ ,.,;;,·,.::, --4 6-5-56_$~2-9 _._QQ____ ~-T!c,~~7~~!z-;-~~~r.~J,~~¥-.~,.-o~t~~~~~I\~U~-~~~~\~:-~-;-~~.~~;-~.,~~.~~~~.~-~.r,.~.~~~~..~-;;;.-,;~)t~if~~~~~{·­
rop Floor. LaFortune Stud_~_n,!~_t::!!.~er I Notr~~-e I Ind. 46556 County__ :~U~;;;;{~o-rnrllnol,~•;,;~;,~~~-~~~~-l-~-l~~~lrl•_l_': ,! •. ''.'~-~!~l--l~~~~~-~l~~~~ r.r~!~~~--·'~:~~~~-~~~ 1 \'!~---N~t~-;;-[)~~-; .§!ude!'~_of Uni~Jii>.tre _!).;!!!!_~ ..LH.L .!'!Jlll.'..:;~l!.lil.ll. --------· ~ruL__4llS_li_ 
ED/TOII (/\'<>"• .. a11d At!dro"••J 
-~~-o-~~~~~-~-~!-~~~tun~~~~-~~ ~~~_.___!_12~· __4~~----------______ _ 
NfJ,.I.I\t•IIIG LUITUI1 (;.'otnc c.ud i\olo!,r»J 
Danie_!._~nchez, Lafor~~e Cent~_!_~Dame. ~'!~~~-5_6----·-------­7.owr:<n Ill•·• ,, ..· /,, . ., n...,.,.,,,.,,,_,r, ,,.,,-,...,• .,.r.... ,. "'""' /u •ln/o·;ln•.ol n! • ,,,.,.,,.,r,,•,n ,.,,,..,,.,,,,., ''" """"''""'' .•! ,., ·•·I""'; r.ull'rr••:"""""''''"'''/m.,-J I""N<'III m m,orrt~/ 1 >lult-"""''" lt,'~lurl:. II uo,f UU'II•t' I•> a ro•J•···.,fl.. ll,l" "'"'"'J c·,,• c ,,,,,.,., • ·•/ ''•· ',,!, 1•,.·: (>ll.'llt',.rua.ilfi•fHt'll, Jjuun·,fl<)""l'"''"•"'u;>l>tc•''·I</UIIt"''"'''"''l••l/l•"··':'n""''"""·:"l'l"•',t'otoi/..,Jtl.al"lf>l'l:o••'--·''"'''''·'; 
TO i 1\l /\1.'-<:'•':1 01 IJ(H,;J!,_ M"l• 1 l·h'·l ~ Cl" (ll ol· H ~.L l.L.•'-Illlo! 1,'( II>,·,. ~" '""'". '" .t~l· I 

r-------· -­
JH.. J:o~eph__ B~JJ~ .•n.<l....J.:~H .CJl.~ 
,,,.! .,..,.. 
[]~: ... ' ...., []:·.·:·:.·:..-·· ... 

r.,!:r:rF.r•.•.• t.r•••l• tl•·•'"•'''"',  
II·,,.,, '  "''  .1""'<11111'1'  rf•, ,,,.,  
$20  per ye3r  

I '''" ,,,q ,,, ,. 1 , , • 1<1" ''•' r""''", r., 
··' ,,....•;-,.,,, ,,, 
NOTI•:ES 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. 
Typing . 35 cents per page. Gall Dan, 272-5549 
BEER: Kegs, Free delivery and low prices. 288-7878 Chip. 
WHY PAY MORE? Flanner Record has $6.98 list L.P.'s for $4.65. Call 1492 or stop by 809 Flanner Hall. 
Experienced pilot will fly 2 or 3 passengers to destinations with in 250 mile radius of N.D. weekends or for breaks. Return flights can be arranged. Call Jon Reyniers MB10 3396 days, 684-5867 evenings. 
Forming an Overeaters Anonymous group on campus-more information later. 
Coming soon .. personals for Opie. 
FOR RENT 
Single rooms, 511 N. Frances. Call 232-8712. Must like dogs. 
LOST AND FOUND Found: Hunting knife left in car by hitchhiker Friday night. Call 255­8496. 
·Lost . lnstamatic camera at Jack 
Ford speech. Important pictures. 
Please call Tony. 1247. 
Lost: light brown wrap-tie raincoat. 
Reward! Karen 6994. 
Lost: Brown corduroy jacket at SMC Clubhouse party Friday. If found Call Lou 6818. 

S.outh__llend. lnJl. 4ooJl1_ 
'9 7-..o o I 42.00 '31.00
'?.1_00 I 
~5"0 ~00 
'1000

g::l 100 
.I 
'liOO ~ol'-1 )00 
i'M'I 

~I 
9-zoo q 2..00
1 
WANTED 

Rider needed to Boston for break. Approximate weight 100 pounds! Must like small foreign cars. For appointment call Jeff or the Coon at 3451. 
Need ride to BUFFALO for October break. Call Chris 6881. 
6 GA Oregon Tickets. Call 7128. 
Need desperately two Alabama GA tickets. Will pay$$. Call 4-5237. 
Need 4 Oregon tix GA. Call Cole 288-5667. 
Lots of tix wanted -any home game. 
Call Tom 287-3689. 
W an,ted: ride to Youngstown or vicinity on Oct. 15 or 16. Cathy 4-4770. 
MONEY will pay nicely for 4 G.A. Oregon tix. Leslie 8135. 
USFSA Figure andlfiDr dance profes­sional. Call Mrs. Myers, Michiana Figure Skating Club. 287-4524. 
Ride to Toledo this Friday. Call Peggy 8125. 
Need 2 Bama tix for parents who have never been to an NO game. Mary 8125. 
ROLL TIDE-got some extra GA tix you wanna get rid of fast? Call Mary 8125. 
Urgent! Need a place to live. Quiet, non-smoker. Please contact Bill at 7437 till 5 p.m. weekdays. 
Addressers wanted immediately! Work at home --no experience necessary .. excellent pay. write American Service, Suite 132, Min­neapolis, Mn. 55426. 
faculty members who plan to research grants." the companu is contrubuting this 
conduct research during the sum-year ''to insure educational excel-
mer. Kodak awarded a total of $585, lence" in institutions of J,igher 
"We haven't made up our mind 500 in direct grants to 159 privately learning. Other grants have been 
yet," said Dr. Charles Wilber,! and publicly supported colleges made in areas of research, capital 
chairman of the Economics depart-and universities, including Notre improvements, and program deve­
ment, "but a prime candidate for Dame. This is all part of an lopment. 
SMC plans Founder's Day 
by Karen Ann Zalecki StaH Reporter 
The annual celebration commemo­rating the founding of Saint Mary's College will take place on Sunday October 10. An afternoon of activities is planned. 
''This year we want to make the celebration short and sweet," co-
Morrissey wins in interhall match 
(continued from page 8) 
The only touchdown of the first half was scored by Morrissey's Tom Gorman. It came on a counter 
play from twelve yards out. Larry Turner kicked the extra point for a 7-0 lead. 
Morrissey's lead grew to 13-0 as QB Jim Edwards plunged into the end zone from 1 yard out. The extra point attempt failed. 
The Big Red of Dillon answered this score with a score of their own and a two-point conversion. The score was now 13-8, but the game was not over. Dillon marched to the Morrissey 20 yard line and they threatened to score again. But, DE Tom Bosch tipped a pass into the arms of Dt Je Lavigne. This put the game on ice. 
CU Law School holds interviews 
A representative from Capital University Law School of Colum­bus, Ohio will be conducting inter­views in Room 324, Administration 
Building from 1:30 to 2:45 on Wednesday Oct. 6. The interviews are opeu to all students and no sign ups are necessary. 
Class(fied Ads 
Desperately need ride to Columbus, 
Ohio weekend of Oct. 9. Call Gary 
1785. 

Need 2 G.A. Bama tix. Desperate. Call 1785. 
HELP! Need 2 G.A Oregon tickets. Call Gregg at 1650. 
RICH UNCLE needs Alabama tick­ets. Mike 3452. 
Wanted: 4 Oregon tickets and 2 Miami tickets for brother who couldn't get into this great school. Ray 1417. 
Need Oregon GA tickets. Call Ruth 7136 or 272-3513. 
wanted: Pair of Oregon tix for mom and dadJ Call 3429. 
Need 7 Oregon tickets. 259-0631 after 5 p.m. 
I need two GA Oregon tickets. 
Please call 1010 and ask for John. 
Need GA tix -2-for Oregon. 
Phone Bob 255-8660. 
Needed: 1 tickets for Oregon game. 
Call Tex 289-1431. 

Will trade 2 Section 26 Oregon tix for 2 Bama tix. Call Steve 287-6823. 
Associated Cleaning Service needs one male to work on campus from 9 
p.m. to 1 a.m. 5 days a week. Pay rate $2.40 an hour. Responsible individual only. Inquire at 232-7441. 
Desperately need GUITARIST who can read music for production of Jaques Brei. Call Lou 6818. · 
mmented Theresa Chin, one of the organizers of the Founder's Day activities. "Students are going to be busy studying for midterms," Chin added. "They won't be able 
to  take  off the  whole  day  from  
studying."  
The  commemoration  will  open  

with a Mass at 11:15 in the Church of Loretto. It will, for this week, replace the 10:30 Mass held each Sunday in Regina :halL A special luncheon in St. Mary's Cafeteria will follow the Mass. "There will even be birthday cake and ice cream" to add to the festive occasion, commented Stevie Wer­nig, assistant dean of student affairs. 
At 1:30 Sister Raphaelita, admi­

ssions counselor, will speak in 
Stapleton Lounge at SMC. The talh 
is entitled, "Founder's Dav-What 
Did They Find?" Sister Raphaelita 
said she would be speaking on 
"Father Sorin and the other people 
who were important to the toundl­
ng of St. 1\lary's College." 
Father Sorin is recognized 
founder of St. Mary's and Notre Dame. "It is customary in religio­us schools to celebrate Founder's Day on the name day of the founder." said Sister Raphaelita. St. Mary's, however. will not be celebrating Founder's Day on Oct­ober 13. the feast day of St. · Edward, but on the Sunday before 
due to October break. 

Pick them up anytime in the 
Need ride to Long Island, N.Y. Oct. 
Break. Leave Friday afternoon. Share$ ano driving. Chris 288-9768 after 6:30 p.m. 
4 GA OREGON tickets needed for loving parents. Joan 1334. 
Wanted: 2 tix for Alabama game. Sister and brother-in-law coming for game. Call Bill at 288-0088. 
FOR SALE 
NEW LONDON LAKE CONDO­MINIUM. 2 bedrooms, den, 2-car garage $33,900. Sandy Stroes. 272-7750 or 272-2696. 
For sale. '71 Pinto. Good tran.spor­tation Call Bill, 288-!'72. 
personals 
Has anyone here seen ORION lately? 
Michael Peter, Want to take me to WILD BILLY'S CIRCUS? 
Candace, Letting you know, I'm still watching. "Yankee" Mike. 
Terry, it may not be right, but is my best. Ric 
Moon . no more nasty limericks or else -1•ve got more ammo. You too, Jaws. 
Ho-Ho Houghton: Is this your very first personal? Vegetable Buddy 
To the girls field hockey team: you make a great emergency bus ser­vice. Thanks much for the ride. 
John, Mark, Pam and Kathy Sunshine, 
Thanks for a wonderful year. There's many more aheao. It's you 'n me forever. 
Love ya forever. 
Curlie 
K.A.T. "Happy '6' month annive.· sary." A.P.H. 
K3D JWL (et all. Vives amities a vous! A.P.H. 
PARDON ME ROY, IS THAT THE CAT THAT ATE YOUR NEW SHOES? 
PR2, Heard your brother Jim went to Pete and Lenny's to get his parrot, the one from the Vii lane Zoo. I want to see your Button and Elbow (room) in the ocean's mist. What's a quarter of a poop deck? It's Tabu. The other woman, Dirty Nelly 
One year ago today 1met the love of my life. Now all 1have to wait for is 
October break on Prince Arthur Street. Looking forward to it anxiously. 
Your N.D. Co-ed. 
October Break is coming up! would like to SEE my parents. Help find those darn glasses. Clear framed, lost near bars. Call Tom 289-0114. 
Sorry about bus breakdown Friday. QUICKIE will definitely run this Friday, Oct. B. 
Harry and Floyd the Mice, Take the maroon sweater. I wouldn•t settle for less. 
John Deedles 
121 Stebbins: Even· if you don't share your head, lost the election, or win a decathalon, I'll squeal for you. 
You sweetheart! (not Honey) 
MERRI-field. 

... 
........ 

• 
the observer Tuesday, October 5, 1976 
Talented Restic 
by Bob Keen Sports Writer 
The most versatile athlete on the Notre Dame football team might well be Joe Restic. During his short collegiate career Restic has played at such positions as punter, free safety. running back, and quarterback. At the moment, he is starting as a free safety and punter. 
·'I am very pleased to have received the opportunity to play consistently," Restic stated. Con­stantly moving from offense to defense and vice-versa might con­fuse macy athletes, but not Restic. 
· • As long as I am playing it does not really matter where Coach Devine plays me," he said. 
Rcstic is a six foot two inch sophomore from Milford, Massa­chusctb. During high school he started as quarterback and safety a!. well as handling the punting chores. After his senior year Restic received an honorable mention All-American award by Scholastic ('oach Magazine. He is presently enrolled in the College of Science with a pre-medical major. 
If the name Res tic sounds familiar it is because his father. Joe Restic, Sr.. is head football coach at Harvard. Incidentally, Harvard won the Ivy League crown last year and is undefeated so far this year. 
"My father was instrumental in my development as a· good football player." acknowledged Restic. 
"He gave me the encouragement and guidance I needed during my childhood." His father reviewed football game films and gave Restic advice which improved his game. 
"My father was particularly impor­tant in helping me with my punting." stated Restic. 
Restic had to make a tough decision concerning which college he should attend. He finally 

·. :. ·. 
Restic's rst career came 
"'ith a 50 yard return. rPhoto by Tony Chifari] narrowed his choice down to Notre Notre Dame," said Restic. "After 
Dame and Harvard. "My father talking to Coach Yonto. my heart was very understanding and left was set on going here.". th? choic~ co?~plete~y up to me," He saw his first action last year 
satd Resttc. I dectded to attend during the Air Force game when he Notre Dame because I thought that punted and played some at free the two_ schools wer~ _comparable safety. Res tic turned in an incredi­academtcally and addtttonally . ble performance as he established Notre Dame gave me the chance to a new Notre Dame record for play major college football." punting average in a single game 
"In my opinion Notre Dame with a 51.6 average on five punts. offers the best combination of "Playing for the first time in the athletics and academics in the Air Force game was my biggest country," he said. "There is a thrill," stated Restic. "The record certain mystique about playing was nice but I was more pleased 
football for Notre Dame that is with the fact that we came from unexplainable." behind to win the game." For the Restic was first contacted season Restic compiled a 43.5 between his junior and senior years punting average which ranked him by defensive line coach Joe Yqnto. seventh among collegiate punters "Before this time I had not thought and set a new school record for 
much about playing football -at punting average. 
lnterha/1: shutouts abound 
by Tony Pace 
Sports Writer 
Looking at the outcomes of this week's interhall football games, one would be tempted to call it the "week of the whitewash" , as four of the seven games were shutouts. Here is a rundown of the games: 
Grace 12 Zahm 0 
The men of Grace raised their record to 2-l as they blanked Zahm 12-0. After a scoreless first period, Grace struck on a 65 yard pass play from quarterback Matt Ratterman to wide receiver Pete McCarthy. The extra point attempt failed and the score at the half was 6-0. 
In the second half Grace contin­ued their domination and Dave Betlach raced 12 yards to paydirt. Once again the conversion failed and the final was 12-0. 
Assistant Coach Bob Carey sin­gled out the play of LB Joe Ungashick and De Mark Kolas as being instrumental in the shutout.. 

.-" Keenan 18 Stanford 0 
This game seemed closer than the score would indicate. The only two touchdowns of the game were scored in a rather unusual fashion. 
The first was on an interception return by Frank Hopke. The second was scored by Nick Moli­naro when he recovered a fumbled punt in the end zone. The other six points were scored as a result of Ed Danko field goals. They were 30 and 35 yards respectively. 
Keenan has the bragging rights to this grudge match until the next encounter. 
How,ard-St. Ed's 8 Fisher 0 
In yet another whitewash, Ho­ward-St. Ed's blanked Fisher 8-0. 
The only touchdown of the game was scored on a thirty yard pass from Dan Trauel to John Dzimin­ski. The two point conversion was the result of an option pass from Mike Murray to running back Andy Schmidt. 
The defense, led by Bob Digan, allowed Fisher into Howard-St. Ed's territory only once. 

Flanner 22 Cavanaugh 0 
Planner's interhall team gained 
their first win with a 22-0 whipping 
of Cavanaugh. 

Early in the first quarter Planner ·drove 50 yards to score the game's 
opening touchdown; Phil Volpe 
hulled over from 3 yards out. 
Quarterback Mark Coons kept the 
-ball on an option play for the 
conversion points. 
Later in the first half quarterback Coons hit receiver Mike Schuff with a 15 yard touchdown pass. Run for the extra points failed and Flanner led 14-0 at the half. 
After a scoreless third period, Planner put some more points on the board in the 4th period. Coons hit Dan McCormick with a 15 yard touchdown pass and Phil Volpe sweeped in for the extra points. The score stood at 22-0. 
The Planner offensive machine rolled for over 250 yards, of which RB Volp,e had 120. 
Morrissey 13 Dillon 8 
In this traditional South Quad rivalry Morrissey triumphed over Dillon by a 13-8 score. 
(continued on page 7) 
Limited Oregon tickets available 
Ticket Manager Mike Busick .has announced that a number of tickets have become available for the Notre Dame-Oregon football game to be played here on Saturday, Oct. 16, 
All of theavailable seats are field seats and are on sale at the Gate 10 Ticket Window of the ACC 'for $9 soiece. The Ticket Window is open daily from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
roves versatility
·, . . ·<: 
concentration." Restic said. "I really felt discouraged after the game.'' 
Since the first game Restic has returned to old form including a 
47.5 yard average against North­western. 

He is looking forward to the Alabama and Southern California football games. "However, you really cannot look beyond the next football game because any team can beat you on a given day," said Restic. "There is a great deal of mutual respect between Notre Dame and tea•ns of this caliber." 
With the injury to Randy Harrison, which will keep him out of action for the rest of the season, Restic has been moved into his position at free safety. "Randy is a good team player and his loss will hurt the team significantly,'' Res tic noted. He has performed well during the last three weeks in which the defense has only given up two field goals. Restic's first career interception came last Satur­day against Michigan State as he displayed his speed with a 50 yard return. 
Restic believes that it is too earlv Restic displayed his passing skills In the final game against Miami, 
to start thinking about pro footbalL when he threw a ten yard option 
but_with his punting credentials pass to Ken MacAfee for a touch­
and all-around potential. he feels down. 
that it is certainly a possibility. Restic, like his teammates, was While Restic seems to have very discouraged with their open­established himself at free safetv. ing day loss to Pittsburgh. His do not be surprised if you find hi;, poor punting performance was helping the team at some other typical of the performance turned position if the need arises. He has in by cthe entire team. During been able to adapt to every position practice the week before the game where he has been placed. Restic had injured his knee but he Indeed, one may not know where 
offered no alibis. "I never punted to find Joe Restic's number 7 next 
so badly in my entire life. it must in the Notre Dame lineup, but rest 
have been due to a lack of assured it will be there somewhere. 
*Observer 
Sports 

Notre Dame spirit 

It was the type of thing that couldn't have happened anywhere else but at Notre Dame. A classic Indian summer day --an afternoon for picnics and frisbees on most college campuses. But Sunday afternoon at 3 nearly 500 students gathered at Stepan Field to watch, of all things, an interhall football game. It was quite a sight. 
The game was the North Quad's answer to Army-Navy, the annual grudge mat~h between Stanford and Keenan. In years gone by, the game had perenmally produced the North Quad champion, and this year was expected to be no exception. Keenan had won last year and Stanford wanted "revenge," as the chant goes. They didn't get it, but they sure had a lot of fun trying. 
Most colleges don't even bother to have pre-game rallies anymore. They just don't appeal to today's sophisticated students," is the way the argument goes. At Notre Dame they have pep rallies at interhall games. Or at least they did on this sparkling afternoon, as a throng of about 50 Stanford "Studs" whooped it up for quite a while before heeding cheerleader Randy Haefner's caution to "save some of your voices for the game." 
Their Keenan counterparts were not to be outdone. They were equally as plentiful,.both numerically and vocally, and sported to many signs and banners that you would have thought ABC Sports was there. Indeed, the:,• should have been. for here was football the way it was meant to be played. 
Forget all that bunk about the Ivy League. Keenan scored first on a mishandled punt, and the Stanford partisans booed vociferously. But the extra point attempt was wide left, and now it was the Keenan faithful's turn to voice their discontent. It was as if they'd moved the North Quad to Philadelphia. The enthusiasm on both sides failed to wane throughout the game. although the Stanford offense was never able to get untracked and Keenan won, 18-0. In retrospect, it hardly matters that Kee-nan triumphed, though undoubtedly it meant quite a lot to the team and its fans. Much more important is the fact that such a rivalry dares to exist at a time when grade point averages and the procurement of a job have replaced God and family as our top priorities. Perhaps one Stanford student summed it up best in response to a Cavanaugh man's reproachment that he and his hallmates were slightly crazy. "You're darn right," he said with a grin, quickly adding, "Crazy ---.and proud." His point was w.ell taken by the . Cavanaugh man. It's food for thought for the rest of us, too. 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------~------~----------------------------------------------------­







