

Dr. Hofman has reconsidered his February decision to resign as Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies and has accepted nomination for the position [Photo by Tony Chifari]. the College of Engineering, re-Chemistry, Dr. Jeremiah P. Fre­
marked that he was sorry Hofman man, said, "I have a lot of respect 
resigned and would be delighted if for Dr. Hofman. I'd be delighted if 
he returned. 
(mntinuPd on pdge 7)
Chairman of the Department of 
by Bob Mader Executive News Editor 
Dr. Emil T. Hofman is in the running for the office of the Dean of the Freshman Ycar of Studies. Hofman's resignation from the post had been announced on February 16. 
·'The prime reason why I have changed my mind and would like to continue in this job and would hope to be selected by the commit­tee is that I want to he able to continue working with freshmen in the way that I have in the past few years.;, Hofman said. "1 think that it is the most important job that I could do in the remainder of my career." he added. 
Fr. Mirhacl J. Murphy, C. S.C., chairman of the search Committee for the Dean of the Freshman Year, emphasized that Hofman will not automatically continue in office since he has already resigned. Other candidates will be consider­ed he said. 
Hofman. who has been Dean of the Frl'~hmanYear since 1971. said he accepted his appointment with the expectation that he could complete other projects in which he was involved. He was the chairman of "an important pro­ject" for the Division of Chemical Education for the American Chern· ical Society. Director of the Notre Dame Tcat·hcr Training Institute in Chemistry. and the Director of the 
25th  ln.tcrnational  Science  and  
Engirwering Fair.  
Hofman  felt  that  if  he  had  

[Photo by Tony Chifari]. by Ginger McGowan Staff Reporter 
The Saturday class day added to next fall's calendar is now changed from September II to October 9. university officials announced yes­terday. The change applies to both Notre Dame and St. Mary's calen· dars due to student co-exchange in classes. 
The switch came in lieu of an anticipat<:d announcement by ABC­TV Sports that the Notre Dame­Pittsburgh football game. original­tv schl·duled for October 9 at Notre 6ame. will be played here on SeptL·mbl·r II and tdcvised by the network. 
NCAA rl·gulations rc4uire ABC to show only 2 games in any regular football season. ABC will televise the NO-Alabama game on Nov. 13. 1976 and the NO-USC game on Nov. 27. 1976. If ABC decides to show the Pitt. game it must precedl' the season opener with Purdue on Sept. 18. 1976. This would conform with NCAA regula­
ions. 
withdrawn from these projects at 
that time, they would have been 
jeopardized. Consequently, he 
decided to accept the appointment 
as dean while continuin_g the 
projects. All of these projects were 
completed by the summer of 1974. 
Hofman said he "has a very 
special commitment and dedica­
tion to completing his hook on 
general chemistry and films, vidio· 
tapes and audio tapes to accom· 
pany the book as teaching aids. 
He discovered this fall that he 
was unable to make the progress he 
wanted on the completion of the 
hook and teaching aids and. there­
fore. decided he could not both 
finish his project and remain as 
Dean of the Freshman Year. 
Consequently, he decided to resign 
his position as dean. 
After he resigned, Hofman was approached by a number of stud· ents who said they were unhappy with that decision. "I was very touched by these expressions, very touched," Hofman said. 
Hofman was recently notified by the Search Committee that several people had submitted his name for the position and he accepted the nomination. "I told them I would gratefully and enthusiastically ac­cept the nomination," he said. The dean said he decided that his first priority should be with the Fresh· man Year of Studies. 
Hofman's performance in the last tivc years will now become a consideration of the Search Com· n1ittcc. accordin_g to Murphy. 
Saturday class switched for Pitt game television 
. 
Dean of Administration leo Corbaci has changed next semester's Saturday class because of anticipated switch of the NO-Pitt game 

According to Fr. Edmund Joyce, University Executive Vice Presi­dent. Notre Dame and Pittsburgh have agreed to change the date. hut negotiations arc still being finalized with ABC. "There are all sorts of things involved in this,., .Joyce acknowledged. 
The calendar change was imple­mented by Leo Corbaci, Dean of Administration. Corbaci's office recently received the calendar which has been approved by the Academic Council. 
"I thought I had cleared this," remarked Corhaci, referring to the l'onflict. "The simplest way out of this was to change the class day." he noted. Corbaci added that St. Mary's administration was inform­ed o.f the move and they agreed. 
The October 9 class day will follow a normal MWF schedule because it is replacing classes that would have occurred on the day after Thanksgiving, in accordance with the revised calendar. The change will result in four MWF classdays being held in the space of a week. 

server 
Thursday April 1, 197& 
Murphy stressed the importance of the Dean of Freshmn Year on the lives of Notre Dame undergrad­uates. "Some of the finest statements which have been receiv­ed by our committee to date have come from Notre Dame's current undergraduates," Murphy said in praise of Hofman. 
The committee is now solicitinl! opinions on both the positive and negative aspects of the Freshman Year of Studies and Murphy asks that all comments be sent to him in his capacity as chairman of the committee. 
Hofman's decision was well re­ceived by a number of Notre Dame administrators. 
Dr. Isabel Charles, dean of the college of Arts and Letters, said she is "delighted." ''I'm happy to hear he's put his name in for consideration," she said. 
Dr. Joseph C. Hogan, dean of 
Court rules in Quinlans' favor, daughter will be allowed to die 
THENTON. N.J. (AP) -Karen Anne Quinlan's father won the right in New Jersey Supreme Court on Wednesday to allow his coma­tose daughter to die. climaxing a legal battle he began almost a year ago. 
The court. in a 7-0 ruling. appointed .Joseph Quinlan legal guardian of his 22-ycar-old daughter and said he could let her die if he can lind competent medical authorities who agree with him that there is no reasonahk pos~ibility of her recovery. 
The New Jersey attorney gene, said there would he no immediate decision on whether the state would appeal the deciskm. Joseph and Julia Quinlan said they would not ask to have their daughter's respirator disconnected until the 
state  has  time  to  decide  on  a  
possible appeal.  .  .  
The doctors  now  treatmg  M1ss  

Quinlan had fought against her parents' suit to turn off the support systems which have kept the young .;oman breathing since shortly after she fell into the coma on April IS. 1975. She has never regained consciousness. 
After the court's decision was announced. Karen's parents told a news conference at their parish church in Mount Arlington that they expected that the hospital caring for Karen would comply with the ruling. even though it had opposed the Quinlans' suit. 
''This is the decision we have been praying for," Julia Quinlan said. 
Asked about her daughter's prospects for recovery. Mrs. Quin­lan said: "There is no hope and there hasn't been any. If we had any hope we would never have started this." 
"We hope at the last minute the Lord will take her and we won't have to remove her from the respirator," Joseph Quinlan said. 
The court said if the Quinlans choose to let their daughter die, "this decision should be accepted by a society the overwhelming majority of whose members would, we think, in similar circumstances exercise such a choice in the same way for themselves or for those closest to them." 
Paul Armstrong. attorney for the Quinlans, said the ruling "leaves Mr. Quinlan free to return his daughter to her natural life proces­ses. If those processes can't sup­port her, she will die." 
The court, in the opinion written by Chief Justice Richard J. Huuh£>~. ~airl th~t in cn~P~ likP Miss Quinlan's a med1cal point is and the prognosis dims," the courtreached where the individual's said. "Alternately there comes arights to privacy and to choose point at which the individual'sdeath take precedence over the rights overcome the state's inter­interests of the state in preserving 
ests." 
human life. 
The court opinion said future
"We think that the state's 
right to die cases can rely on theinterests weaken and the individ­ruling Wednesday without theual's right to privacy grows as the need for a case-by-case judicialdegree of bodily invasion increases review. 
Liquor Board gives advice: don't sign bars' affidavits 
by Karen Sikorski Staff Reporter 
Students who try to enter bars 
with a false lD should think twice 
about signing affidavits claiming 
that they arc 21. advises the 
Indiana Liquor Excise Control 
Board. 
A minor who signs such a form "can be arrested for possession of false idcntitication and falsitication of identification to obtain alcoholic beverages." according to Major Hoss Portalcse, executive officer of enforcement for the board. The form could then be presented as evidence in court. The maximum penalty upon conviction is a $500 fine and six months in jail. 
The form was used by the management of Fat Wally's at Friday's junior class Happy Hour. Rob Tully, junior class president, said "a number of students were asked to sign when the checkers at the entrance were not satisfied with the identification presented. The person who signs the affadavit affirms that he or she is 21 and releases the management from responsibility in case of a raid on the bar." 
Tully further commented, "sev­eral students left the bar when asked to sign the paper." He suggested that those who left probably did not have valid !D's. For this reason, Tully feels that asking students to sign a form might he a "psychological" tactic 
"The form docs not alway~ release the management from re­sponsibility." said Portalesc. "We still take the position that the management has the main rcspnn­sibility" for determining the age of patrons, he added. He pointed out. however, that the number nf min­ors in a bar during a raid i~ taken into account by the judge at control board hearings. "One or two" minors would not count too hea\ ily 
against  an  establishml'nt.  Porto­ 
lese  said,  admitting  that  some  
minors look older than 21.  

Ken Pocppclman, of Notre Dame Legal Aid and Defender Associa­tion, agreed that the signed form would not always excuse the m:tn· agement in case of a violation. "But the fact that the managcml'nt asked customers to sign the form could be used in defense of the establishment," Pocppelman ->aid. "It would show that they (the management) had made a sincere effort to make sure their patmns were of legal age." he adtled. Poeppelman also pointed out that bars, such as Fat Wally's, which have been raided several times, may have instituted the practic<· to "limit their legal liability" and improve their image with the Liquor Control Board. 
···················t
:on The Inside---• : For journalism the : : way it should be. : 
•
t •••••••••••••••••• See middle pages.t• 

Thursday April1, 1976
the observer 
-On Campus Toda~/-­
12:15 pm--­1 :30 pm-­
2 pm-­
3:30 pm-­
4 pm-­
4 pm-­
4 pm 
4:30 pm-­
5:15 pm-­
7 & 10 pm-­
7:30 & 9:30pm-­
8 pm-­
~ pm-­
• 10 pm-­12 am-­
12:15 am-­
Link will speak 

Night Editor: Bob Brink at Chicago Bar Ass't Night Editor: Joe Bauer Copy Reader: Mike Villani, David T. Link, dean of the Univer­Barb Langhenry sity of Notre Dame Law School. will Day Editor: Mary Mungovan speak to Chicago area alumni Editorials: Jim Stevens Thursday (April I) at 5:30 p.m. at Features: Ray O'Brien, Paul the Chicago Bar Association. Stevenson Link. a former Notre Dame Sports: Fred Herbst graduate and member of the Chi­Typists: Susan Shellenbarger, cago law firm of Winston, Strawn, Judy Arenson, Terri Harlan Smith and Patterson, joined the Picture Screener: Tony Chifari school's law faculty in 1970 and Night Controller: Bob Stein­was named dean last year. He will 
discuss new programs in the Lawl Absurd Layout: metz Gregg Bangs, School. the oldest in the nation Val Zurblis ) under Catholic auspices. Notre Dame's general counsel, Phillip J. Faccenda, a 1951 gradu­
The Observer is published Nonday 
ate of Notre Dame and former 
through Friday a1d weekly during the 
memver of a LaSalle Street law
sui'YT!'lel" session, except during the exams a1d vacation periods. The 
firm, and his former law partner, 
Observer is published by the students 
James Moriarty, will host the 
of the Univ. of Notre Dame a1d St. 
meeting. Chicago has the largest
M.ary's College. Subsa'iptions may be purchased tor $18 ($10 per sen-ester) 
number of Notre Dame Law Asso­
1ro11 The Observer, Box Q, Notre 
ciation members, including the
Dame, lndiala 46556. Sealnd Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
chairman of its Board of Trustees. Edmund A. Stephan. 
HAMLET 
7 & 10 pm 
TONIGHT 
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM 
ADMISSION FREE 
.J. • • • r # < ' 
llf ' • ' 
..
•'Y•'('If"tt~l.t.tr~• ,.,~~ ..,.~ llr y .. " '. 
.. .. • .... • ,J> • 
mass, Iafortune ballroom 
jung conference, "on the reasons of the heart", by rev. johns. dunne, c.s.c., nd., open to faculty, staff, students with n.d. id., cce 
tennis, western michigan at n.d. 
computer course, "pl/1," room 115, computer center/mathematics building. 
seminar, "electronic excitation transfer reactions studied by crossed molecular beams" by john j. bentley, n.d. conference room, radiation research building. 
colloquium, "approx nate behavior control in the natural setting: applications with 'normal' sub­jects," by d.c. anderson, ph.d., and martin wikoff, graduate student. sponsored by the psychology department, rm 119, haggar hall 
colloquium, "classifying spaces of discreet, algebraic and topological groups," by prof. eric friedlander, northwestern univ., sponsored by math department, room 226 
evensong vespers, log chapel 
banquet, n.d. chapter of sigma xi 1976 initiation banquet, blue and gold room, morris ir1n 
film, "hamlet" with sir laurence olivier, sponsored by english department, engineering auditorium 
film, "t.v. classics," Iafortune ballroom, 75 cents, 
free popcorn & coke  
jung  conference,  "the  emergence  of  collective  
consciousness"  by  dr.  william  irwin  thompson,  

lindisfarne, cce 
lecture, "islam and african masquerades: the convergence of human spiritual and artistic ideals" by rene braumann, chairman, african studies, washington univ., seattle, sponsored by art dept. and african studies program, library aud 
nau opening new restaurant services 
album hour, wsnd 640 am, tonight's featured album: "kingfish" 
nocturne night flight, wsnd 88.9 fm, the best in progressive rock,· jazz and blues, tonight's host: brian shanahan 
. 1' 
Nazz Restaurant to open tonight 

The new Delicatessen-style rest­
TUESDAY & THURSDAY aurant in the Nazz will open 
DANCE THIS WEEKEND TO 
tonight. Food will be served from 9p.m. to 12 a.m. tonight through SOUTH SHORE Saturday. Plans are scheduled to 
MICHIGAN'S TOP ROCK 
continue this service on these 
NIGHT CLUB!
nights for the remainder of the semester. 
•4, 
IIU IU.GY'I 
The restaurant will feature wait­resses who will serve an array of sandwiches, snacks and various beverages. Entertainment will also 
t."#.f.fllffl 
be provided. The restaurant is designed to ft!!;l-=~====~=-~!1111-..!111-·p!III..!IIIIIIIIIIIJ!III_I!!!!!_~
f • S • O 
bring people out of their dorms as an alternative to off-campus drink­ing activities. The first month of 
operation is experimental. Hours 
::~k~~ t~x:~:~uer~.to seven days-a-
Orchestra tryouts set for 'Godspell' 
Auditions will be held on Mon­day, April 5th for any guitar 
pIa yers and drummers interested U;;;.A;.,;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiillllin being in the orchestra for the 
ND-SMC production of Godspell. Auditions will be held in the Jazz -----------------­Band Room (the old tailor shop. BULLA SHED --f 
next to Lafortune) at 7:00p.m. ~ Further information can be ob-t c 
tainded !rom Fr. Wiskirchen in t~e & EVERY0 NE WEL 0 ME!& 
Band office on Monday. Amps wrll ' , be provided for guitarists. t 
t 
Child deve/opmentt 
THIS FRIDAY AND EVERY t center may open t tFRIDAY AT 5:15p.m.
There is a possibility that the f t Early Childhood Development Cen-t 
t
ter will be open this summer, 
whether during the Notre Dame f t summer session or during the f Mass followed by dinner 
entire summer is there is sufficient t 
interest and need. The center ----~------------­
would be providing full or part-time 
programs for children between the 18----------------......-------..
ages of six and eight. 
Anvone who is interested or wants further information whould call Terri Kosick at 284-41 SO. 
THE 
RESUME PLACE 
2 5 8 1/2 X 1 1 R/\C BOND Only $2.55 
insly·prints 

203 N. MAIN SO.BEND, IND 
289-6977 
:---THE-lathANNUALNOTREDAME--1 
t  COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL  t  
t  t  
t  STEPAN CENTER  t  

t 
t FRIDAY, APRIL 2 
'' 7 :30 Notre Dame Big Bandf 8:10 Moses of I.U. Indiana Combo , 8:50 Oakland University Big Band ' 9:30 Notre Dame Combol 1O:10 Northwestern Big Band & 10:50 Fredonia State Jazz Band 
: 
, Tickets are available at ' h d 
: t e oor, Student Union ' k ff
f Tic et 0 ice, ' 
, and local outlets. 
f
f 
: FESTIVAL PASS ~6.00 . 
t-~~LN~~E~--Al!.~~~$2:2£-~~~L~~~~o-t 
------·-------------------------------------------------­
*~c:~ orBIRR ar ar . 
\ 
'Jt.l Parts & a c c:es s 0 rie s for imp0 rted can. 
Re:'::., 
J)istrobutor 
THE BEATLES 
AWAY WITH WORDS 
6 UNFORGETTABLE PERFORMANCES ' u MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM $
$32 375
5 SATURDAY SUNDAY 
&:OO p.m. 
APRIL 3 4 
10:00 p. m. . • 
$3SO Perform1nces 11 6, 8 & 10 p. m. s:oo p.m. EACH llfGHT AT 
ADVANCE MORRIS BOX OFFICE -BOGGlE RECORDS THE TICKETS ADVANCE TICKETS (SUSPENDED CORD) Elkhart and Goshen DOOR (JUST FOR THE RECORD AND THE REC. JOINT) Niles 
for all makeS at loWeSt priceS. 
*******272 -7187 ********* 
,..­
*For ND Students, Fac.ulty_A __Stptf-!*10 percent:discount with I D & * ! purchase of $ 10 or more. * 
*************~~*********. 
t 
SATURDAY APRIL 3 t 
12 :30 W astanaw College' Big Band '' 
1:10 Western Michigan Big Band f 
1:50 Ohio State Combo & 
2 :30 Kent State Big Band ' 
3:10 MIT Quintet f & 
7:00 High School Jazz Band : Winners , 
8 :00 Governors State Big Band & 
8:40 University of Illinois Big Band : 
9:20 Chicago State Jazz Combo ' 
1o:00 Indiana University Big Band f 
10:40 Northwestern University , combo ' 
11:20 a special performance of the f Eastman School of Music f 
•· .. : 12 : 3~az;w~':'n':!~ ~~.:.ew Soloff ~ 

Thursday April1, 1976 
the observer
Distributed to ND faculty 
AAUP composes collective bargaining survey 
by Maureen Flynn Campus Editor 
The Notre Dame chapter of the American Association of University Professors (AA UP) composed a questionnaire on collective bar­gaining for distribution to all fanllty members last night. 
In a recent survey of AA UP chapter members. 94 percent indi­l'atcd a need to poll the entire fanlltv for their opinions on the colle~·tivc bargaining issue. Another M pt:rcent favored an effort on the part of the chapter to offer itself a~ a collective bargain­ing agent. 
ProL James Robinson. chapter presidcnl. told members he hopes till· AAUI' will "get enough feed­back from the faculty as a whole to dl'lcrmine what action we should take in the fall." 
Robinson noted that the quest­ionnaire i~ <.:omplctcly unoflkial and in no way binding on those who respond. 
The questionnaire first asks fac­ultv to indicate which :rspects of Uriivcr~ity governance. faculty grievance procedures and salary questions are of concern to them. Faculty arc then requested to give their impressions of the relative merits of collective bargaining and current procedures in dealing with the issues. 
Speaking for himself, Robinson said he supports collective bargain­ing at Notre Dame because "When you have a faculty that should be listened to--a good faculty--then they should participate in Univer­sity government." 
l{obinson said he thinks the "faculty perspective would be val­uable" and that collective bargain­ing would offer a "more intimate" setting for discussion than current­ly exists. 
· Edward Vasta, AAUP member and chairman of the English department, said he was "used to thinking of rollertivc bargaining in terms of issues and ills to be remedied," but that he had started thinking of it "more positively as a good instrument fur faculty organi­zation." 
"A number of these issues represent areas defined here (Not­re Dame) by the University alone," Vasta observed. "I wonder if the farulty might not entertain the idea 
WNDU plans internships, new communications class 
In· ()a\'id Bcno Staff Rl•portcr 
In a memo to all WNDU staff llll'lllhcr~ la~t week, Mr. William T. Hamilton, Station Manager at WNDU. announced "new progress in two long-standing goals of the WNDU Station!>: to bdter serve the cdurational goals of the University of Notre Dainc and to strengthen thl' personnel responsibilities and functions within our organization." 
In rdcrcm:c to the first goal, WNDU will sponsor individual intcrn~hips and a tclcrommunica­tion~ course. under the direction of Mr. lfarrv Kevorkian, director of New~ an(l Public Affair!>. 
Kl'vnrkian mentioned that the <.,lation offered a teleromrnunica­tion~ cour~e about ten years ago. but for ~oml' reason it· was elim­inatl'(l. Whik the linal details of thl' pr·opo~l'd cour~c have not been workl'd out. Kevorkian hopes that thl' l'Ollr~c will he more structured than in till' pa~t ~o a~ to assist in the awarl'ne~s and education of ... tudcnh who might be intl'festcd in bmadrasting careers. 
I he purpose of the class is to provide the hasir foundations for the tl'kcommunications licld in a survl'Y type course, with attention paid to practical considerations as Wl'll a~ concepts and theories. Kevorkian stressed the importance of all three. The tclccommunira­tions roursc, Kevorkian added, rould also be a means to stimulate student interest in broadcasting ror the station. This l'Oursc will be offered in this year's summer 
session and next year as an American Studies course. 
Employment of the WNDU facil­itics is another aim ~11: the. station's new program; parttctpatmg stud­cnts will hav~ arccss to WNDU's 
laborato:y tor pro~urtron and 
l'Orn mcrcral broadcastmg. 
WNDU is also planning a new intcrn~hip program. which Kevork­ian hopes will be more structured and intense than the present program. News, ncwswriting. photography ancl production will be included in the new program. 
Since Kevorkian's new duties will limit the time for his usual daily functions at the station, WN.DU has also appointed Mr. Mike Collins, a co-anchorman on the evening newscasts. Assistant Dircl'lor of News and Public Affairs to compensate. 
Kevorkian commented that the station, whil'h had been consider­ing such a program for a long time, is enthused about this new under­taking. "The new project is another example of the university­community working together," he added. 
THURS. APR. 8th 
7:30 P.M. 
•: . Recently we have received many phone calls 
and letters basically relating to the same
• 
subjed. They are all asking the age old
+ 
question, how do I get noticed in a bar, how

+ 
can I meet a guy, how can I meet a girl; briefly I would suggest to the person who wishers to


• be noticed to wear a chartruese sweater, I
+ 
would suggest that the guy who wants to meet

+ 
a girl get in touch with the girl who wants to 


of collective bargaining simply as a more sophisticated way of organiz­ing." 
Robinson stated that "one sus­
picion" frequently held about col­
lective bargaining was that "aca­
demic problems would be referred 
to non-academic people." He noted 
that most collective bargaining 
contracts outline the "steps pur­
sued by ordinary procedures" and 
that issues "only go to the bargain­
ing agent if they can't be worked 
out. It's rarely necessary to go 
outside to settle problems," he 
added, but in such cases "academ-
SMC softball becomes reality 
by Mary Rukavina Staff Reporter 
A woman's softball team is a reality for St. Mary's this year. The team was organized early last fall by a few interested students, and tlirough their efforts has gained considerable enthusiasm. 
Team member Claire Hatch, one of the early organizers, stated "the idea originated last fall, but only a few students showed an interest. Now however,with the publicity and spring sea~.on upon us, enthusiasm has grown." She added that ap­proximately forty girls arc now on the team. 
The team for all practical pur­poses is on a varsity level status, although technically they arc still ronsidcrcd a club. Hatch explain­ed: "we just aren't funded this year herause the athletic budget for this year had already been drawn up and we needed a year to organize and prove ourselves as a team. Next year we will be admit­ted as a varsity team." 
A schedule of four games for the ~pring, an opening day game April '2nd at Fort Wayne and games 
:th Purudc and Goshen are plan­:d. The fall schedule has yet to be . nnounccd. 
Hatch cited the limited schedule resulting from "not many schools ncar us have softball teams and the fad that this is our first organized ve:rr. · Practice for the team is on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thurs­day nights from S:30 until 7:00. 
Ticket Prices:
Tickets 
Ble~chtrs • • • • • . . • . . $3.00
n Sale 
0 Loww lr•• $4 50Daily At the (End Court)···--·-· ' ' Lowwlr••
ACC 9 5 $5 50
-Side Court) •• :.:=: . • ' 
N.D. & S.M.C. (
STUDENTS FACULTV 
. :~ ...~-' 
AND S1~FF $1.00 
OFF ALL TICKETS L~ ---__ 
................................................... 
meet a guy, and the girl who wants to score Sat. live entertainment, 
•
• can get in touch with me. 
t WORKINGMAN'S TAUSMAN 
• 
~~.&' ~lB JlA')b 
~  \,.\\ ~  ~~ ~  
···..._.,~  ~~···  

THURSDAY 7&7 's $ 25 
• 
ic people are brought in." 
Robinson said a collective bar­gaining contract is not unlike a faculty manual. "The difference is that there is a system to go to when problems arise," he said. The chapter president also noted that most collective bargaining con­tracts contain "no strike, no walk­out" clauses. 
Earlier this year, the AAUP and the Faculty Senate cosponsored a series of informal discussions on collective bargaining with guest­speakers from the AAUP and several institutions where faculties arc collectively represented. 
Robinson said a chapter ncw~­lettcr will be sent out soon with further information concerning the issue and that the questionnaire will be circulated within two week~. 
Three Days of the Condor 
1 
FRI -SAT -& SUN 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:45 
Posse 
FRI -SAT -& SUN 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 
l~f ~lilt~•-llfJll\t~ 1-lix 
255 -9575 

FAST~IZ THAN A ToWNlE .. MORE Po\N'ERFLJL THAN ?RUNE J\JlCE ·-n·s TttE PARODY OF 
INDIANA HI&H SCHOol-BASKt=:TBAL..-L 
HOOSI£R HYSl'EKIA. 
pi u~ 2c.d big fe.9+LA 'f'e:. re-play of +he fl (c::,-t ep t5odes of 
1:" 
TH£ GotN)EltJ-fJROtll~ 
THE ADVEN-ruR-.£~ oF l. Kt=NT REtP 
SiUD£NT PE"Ft:NDE=12-A&Al NSI ACADEMIC 
IYRA~-JI'JY AT A C£RTAJ~ PRE'STI&IOLJ'::l 
MlbwS5TI=RN VNtv'E:R~\TY 
1+-1\JRSPAY AI II PM CJr-/ 

SHI)~ 

11'"tHle Al-5VM HOUR. 
lMONPA'{-7HVt<SDAY AT ~ lPN trE 
tJ~W RELEA.:sss nJ Tf+£::1f<-ENTtR.ETY 
NEW CONCEPT In hairstyling for M~n IOCATED on our lower level wiU. lt.' own prlvatto entrant'~.' way. COMPU,TE PRIVACY In our Individual styling units. Sll' COf'f'EE hy thl' flrepla<·e In a relax<•d atmosphere. FAST SERVICE for rarefree ruts and hlow styles. WE FEATUIU: RK products. 
MANICURES for men $4 PRECISION CUTS $5 HAIRCUTS $4 BLOW STYLING $4.50 
PERMAN_f_NT WA\IING Q}' 1\j~TURAL MAN $25 $1 .00 OFF A PRECISION CUT WITH BLOW STYLING WITH YOUR ND OR SMC iD. 

een's (a~tlt -~()'\, ~ 
54533 TERRACE LANE · ~ Tues., Wed., Sot. 8:30 -5:30, Thurs. & Fri. 8:30 -8:30 
PHONE ?77-1691 



. To help social relations along, we will be 
i. 
starting a series of comic strips involved with all the various lines and approaches that can be used. The key is to use the right approach + at the right time, one could use the honest + approach, the serious approach, the intellect-• 
ual approach, the sarcastic approach, the joke approach, etc. So follow along every Tuesday + and Thursday as we devote a separate strip to + each approach. t 
• 
•t 
................................................... 
.. .. ,, . '. . .. .' .....,, ," "" ..... 
~ 
~ ~ ~ 

*1~d.Q!?.,~~rver
Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and EDITORIAL BOARD St. Mary's College. It does nodt necessarily! refledct bthe pol;cies of ei_~er Thomas O'Neil Editor-m-Chief Institution The news IS reporte as accurate y an o wct1ve Y as poss1 e. S h M · Ed.t
0 1
Editorials represent the opimon or a majority of the editorial Board. an anc ez anaglng or 
Commentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, cartoons and Gregg Bbalngs Executive Editor · f h · h c 1 ·s Val Zur 1s Executive Editor
regular columns express the v1ews o t e1r aut ors. o umn space I H T d available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to Pat andl In Editorial E itor 
· f · · · Bob Ma er Executive News Editor 
promote the free expressiOn o varymg op1n1ons on campus. Maureen Flynn Campus Editor 
Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor Ed;torials 283-1715 Don Reimer Copy Editor
News 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Tim O'Reiley Features Editor Fred Herbst Sports Editor Advertising Manager Tom Whelan Mary Egan Contributing Editor
Busmess Manager Tom Modglin 
Thursday April 1, 1976 
Thus Speaketh The Lord 
Today is April Fool's Day, an occasion that implying inevitable hostility--something the Observer is celebrating with the we never meant. publication of the Absurder. Student We see our relation to Student Govern­Government is celebrating it with the ment as one of objectivity: reporting as inauguration of the Gassman Administra­fairly and accurately as possible both its tion. We trust that there is no special successes and failures; expressing on this symbolism in their choosing to start today page our considered opinion of its perfor­and wish Gassman and his colleagues the mance, while giving its people the same best of luck. opportunity to reply in our opinion columns 
God knows they will need it. The major as we give any other member of the issues student governments face are community. At times we will find 
usually too large to be solved in a single ourselves in agreement with it, most likely year and must be entrusted to succeeding on the all-too-frequent controversies which regimes. Gassman must tackle a formid­pit students and administrators against able amount of unfinished business which each other. In such matters we hope for his predecessors worked on in their time cordial cooperation between the two and which is now his. Among these organizations. continuing projects are enacting the COUL This balance is obviously going to be 
recomendations; reviving the hall judicial difficult to achieve but as a newspaper that boards; continuing the improvement in the claims to both "independent" and "stud­SLC; pushing a civilized drinking-age bill ent'' we owe it to the students to try our through the Indiana legislature; and best. creating reasonable parietals and sexuality We will not achieve this standard 
perfectly and we cannot tell how Gass­
rules. Relations between Student Government 
man's administration will react to it or to and the Observer were badly strained this the problems they face. But we 
are year but we hope that they can be optimistic that relations between Student improved in the coming months. We have Government and student newspaper, and described our position towards Student the status of student issues will have 
Government as an "adversary relation­improved by next April Fool's when a new ship." This may have been a poor choice administration and a new Observer board of words since it was interpreted as tackle their unfinished business. 
P.O. Box Q 
the quest for democracy. Hence, the Argentine military
Pomerleau Correct
had and has a mission to save the Argentine people from the social,Contested economic and political chaos resul­Regulations ting from mismanaged, corrupt
Dear Editor: Dear Editor: 
governments that have not brought 
I am writing to see if a problem
about national unification and inte­
Regarding Claude Pomerleau's can be corrected that exists here at
rnal stability necessary for a demo­
statement on Argentina: Notre Dame. It concerns the 
cracy. Note that although the
Any statement about the recent driving regulations here on cam­
military governments after the
coup in Argentina should be based pus. It seems that the regulations
Peronato did not bring about
on a historical knowledge of that are rather strict and steadfast and
national unity, the subsequent
country and of South America, and 
leave no room for extenuating
failure of Juan Peron and his
the writer of Monday's column circumstances that might exist. 
puppet Isabel to unify an Argentina
concerning Argentina showed 
Saturday night extenuating cir­
torn apart by increasing political,
questionable understanding of his cumstances developed but nothing
social, and economic instability
subject, He spoke of the past could be done about it. It seems
show that perhaps the past military
torture and despotism of the milita­
that Fr. Burtchaell had told the ry regimes after Peron, and sugge­regimes were not at all that bad. Security Department to go ''by the sted that "barbarism" will return 
book" and not let anyone on
Now that Peronism has failed to
to Argentina now that the military campus. The girl I was with had a
bring order to Argentina, maybe
are back in power--" a barbarism broken leg and it is somewhat
Argentines will stop looking back at
paralleling that of Chile and Braz­the false glory of the Perona to and difficult for her to get around. 
iL" Therefore, I wanted to drive onto to 
see today's reality in Argentina.
The roots of the Argentine campus to go to Walsh Hall. 
Under the leadership of the milita­
problem of militarism date back to The guard at the gate let me on
ry, a democracy may soon again be 
the turn of the century, But in brief, campus to drop her off because this 
attempted and be successful. In
since the Sept. 6, 1930 ousting of was the extreme emergency refer­
Argentina. as in other South Ameri­
Radical President Hipolito Yrigoy­red to in the Security Department
can countries, (you could say)
en the military has been increasin­directive, however, I had to have
militarism is a nesessary evil. 
gly involved in politics because of "the hunk of metal" off the 
the failure in Argentina to create a And "barbarism", "barbarism campus in fifteen minutes. This 
constitutional representative gove­paralleling that of Chile and Braz­isn't the nicest thing to have to do in 
ernment free of fraud and corrup­il" was and is sometimes necessary the middle of a date. 
tion capable of maintaining a in South America, and those that Therefore, I believe that the 
democracy. Resulting from the interfered with the flame of revolu-driving regulations should be a­
world depression faith in the tion and attempts of national and mended here at du Lac to give the 
capitalistic system was lost, and democratic consolidation will be guard at the gate more leeway in 
fragmentation of Argentine society held responsible by the military, in determining extenuating circum­
occurred, leaving the military as Argentina and elsewhere, "for stances. One should not have to go 
the only effective force. Military their crimes against the people.'' to the Dean of Students for 
intervention was necessary so as to Cries of "barbarism" is a shock to to onto
permission drive campus
fill the gap between split political the unknowing, and a source of after 6:00p.m. However, the spirit
parties and the people, so that the confusion(?) to some democratic of a pedestrian campus should 
interests of the people, and not 
writers. remain here afNotrebame. 
self.perpetuating political parties • in powar~ could be cGnsidered, .in'' . ~---··RobertJ.·Fa~ •.. ~.-.)····--· -John" C. .. I Armstrong
't~·'·'.; ·'I:'}.';·"".)•····-, i . ., '., .. r <:! _ 
Lenten Decision 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii joe g ;II 
The story of St. Paul's journey to Damascus is not a new one, even to several heathen friends back home. As I recall, Paul was sitting leisurely on his horse, quietly riding away from Jerusalem. And except for the killing, persecution, and general harassment of a few Christians , he was just minding his own business. 
Suddenly, lighting struck, he was thrown off his horse, blinded for three days, and met some dude named Ananias, who helped him regain his sight. The rest of the story---Paul's conversion, preaching, and writing---is, in the eyes of the Freshman Year of Studies, a vocational triumph. 
After all, what would you do if you were walking down the South Quad, were struck by lightning, blinded for three days, and called by the Lord to be his soldier, to serve as a man of the cloth? Divine inspiration just doesn't come that often; would you still want to be a chemical engineer? I don't think so, but I really wish it were that easy. 
It seems that nowadays. heavenly vocation cards just aren't sold, and spinning the big employment wheel merely yields the double zero of a recession, Not only that, but most of the time there's not even a clear-cut choice between door number one, two, or three, between accountant, economist, and businessman. And if what turns up behind Monty's door is something you can't use, or worse, something you don't like, the big deal of the day is a death sentence to four years of futile study. 
Maybe it's the spring that bothers me ... a season of renewal, a celebration of the Lamb's suffering and sacrifice. A time of introspection, a time when inner evaluation leads to unavoidable decision, A year ago---deciding where to further my education, a panorama of intellectual colors demanding discernment. Choosing a major---for that matter, choosing a lifestyle. 
Spring can bring problems. 
How can I relate these feelings in an analogy that would capture the essence of this indecision? The mind catapults from one field to another, and even writing is a matrix of confusion. One is reminded of James Joyce, revisited in this stream offoolishness. 
One has changing impressions, changing goals .. , . Once, the 
clanging bells, ladders and red trucks of a fireman seem~d e~ticing. At the sensitive age of ten, the mystery, aura, and burnmg mcense of a magnificent and ornate Catholic church thrust a fear of the Lord into an innocent acolyte, a trembling Stephen Dedalus hearing the call of God. Later, the altruistic and powerful figure of a media-created lawyer possessed a surety and confidence that satisfied an adolescent's search for his own security. 
Those days are gone, and now the time of lounging in fantasies of vocational stardom is over. Leisure becomes work, fantasy becomes reality. 
I wish there was some sign of reassurance. of a hope that the eventual decision is correct. There's only one person you can ask, and He doesn't seem to be talking, although one is left with a sense of not even talking himself. After all, do you ever telephone a friend, and not say anything? How is He supposed to know what you're trying to tell him, when you won't even make the effort to talk? 
It's probably just the Lenten season, and those feelings of guilt brought about by not talking are like the miniature revolvers against the forehead, but this year, I'm not going to search the mail for a spiritual roadmap when I won't even drive into the filling station, 
I'm gonna pray, 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
IAIUL, FIJN[) RAISIN@! PJHATOO 5&&, tu~ {jOTABOIJT YOIJ HAV~ 11A/6NTY KI/JS II&RE /NMINP? /WI? IF TIIGY EAOI 
I CH!PPcf) IN A Q(JM.­TGI<, tuG ClJI//.1) RAISC.. 
IJM ..,FIYG /JOlLARS!'((P<h. I
0 ~· 




sur 
university of notre dame -st. mary's college
Vol II, No. 1 Thursday April 1, 1976 
Calls for more catsup
Hesburgher chan es UnPolicy 
ing and academic codes. These even more usc, cspectally on by Barb Frankenstein include the conversion of all resid­weekend nights," he urged.
Absurd Person 
ence halls except two to coed "Poor food quality, perhaps th'~ Fr. Theodore Hcsburghcr. Lin­
dorms. most regurgitated issue on cam­
president. appeared in overalls and "One hall will remain all-male pus, has resulted in numerous Homan collar in front of Sorin and one will remain all-female," types of complaints,'' Hcshurgher statue last night for another infor­Hesburghcr explained, "For those informed students, explaining the mal discu~sion with students. students who have other prefer­new food service in the dining which resulted in an unexpected ences. halls. This new service will provide annoUIIl"L'Illent of major changes Other changes will include open food for every meal and meat on om Unpolk~·. bars in hall common rooms. ''I've Fridays. 
"The social and academic comli­never been against drinking," "I realize thc!>c arc radic;d tion-. on campus arc intolerable." Hesburghcr repeated. "In fact, I changes," Hcshurgher admitted. lk.,burgher. who had just returned rather enjoy it. Have I ever told "But I sense thcv are neccssarv." from anotlwr L'Xtended vacation. you about my drinking experiences Hcsburghcr cioscd tht• scs~ion
•
revealed to ~tudents. in Rome?" with a final prndamation of changeHESBURGHER
"I bl'lkve that existing rules and A new academic code will pro­in the University. "As of this rcgul;llions should be relaxed bc­later. "I couldn't resist trying to Changes "to be implemented vide an automatic 4.0 GPA for all moment. I am r~signing from the cau~L' it is the purpose of a help them while looking into the immediately" include revisions in students who have paid their presidency of this great in~titu­uniwr~it~·· to preparL' men and hungry faces of several hundred several arc;s, tuition·ror the semester. "I feel tion." the former president aniHHI­womL'II t'tw their rok~ in society." irate students.·· Hcshurghcr desc­Stating. "We need to provide an this action will eliminate competi­nccd. "I have been appoinlctl to he agrenl with ~tudcnts. ribed their arguments as "very easier learning situation." Hcsbur­tion among students and some of the United States comillL'C study­
"Be~ides." llesburghcr added convincing." ghcr announced changes in hous-the cutthroat activities. such as ing religious conditions in the inn~·r class attcndcncc,'' he predicted. regions of Guatemala, and I will he "It will also be beneficial to the joining my co-worker in our tibt•r­social life here." glass house in the mountains
Unpronounceable office canned 
··A more relaxed atmosphere is immediately."
faced" Fr. Theodore Hcsburghcr will offer all the features of 
lh Prep P. RcHesbo . I .. 1. .. I D 1 · 1 N 1 ·d tl needed at Notre Dame," Hcsbur­Hcsburghcr then named Tim 
-, . a1ter scvcra t trty s 1ccts were ar )y s. t 1c azz, anc prov1 c 1c 
Blurb Ed1tor . · . · · t' t· h gher conceded to students. "Ther­Boyle, student and ex-candidate for 
t11scoverec1 1lilngmg 1rom vanous same orm o atmosp ere compa­efore, the university will sponsor Student Bodv President, as hiswindows about the University. rablc to the South Bend establish-
Yin· President or Student Aft'airs new activities such as disco parties, succcsor "to follow in the excellent
Rumor explained that a change mcnts that have taken all the
Brother Simp!~· Unpronounceable keggers, picnics and smokers on traditions of Notre Dame which I'm
in policy will take place. "More students off-campus for socializing. 
annoum-ed early toda~· he is step­the grass of the south quad. sure he will perpetuate." Boyle
bleach will be used to combat the Crisco-vac could not be reached
ping do\\ n from his position to The Rock will also be converted plans to make even further changes
offensive and off-color situation," for comment hut stated earlier if
bet·ornt• permanent manager of the into a student center to make it in Unpolicy than those conceded
Humor said. his own "holy wacr" were served,
lri~h kc Cream Shoppc in the "officially another social space by Hesburgher.
In addition, Humor has accepted business would pick up immensely.
lluddll'. area, which will hopefully be put to Hesgurgher was unavailable for 
a concurrent position in the Photo-(continued below) 
Unpronoum·cable added his en­comment after the discussion. tire office would he abolished. 
graphy Department and will teach S hat else "5 ne ? 
H course in night photography in 0 W I W •
"There simply were not enough affairs going on that warranted 
g:~n:·~~~~~~~~l~l~\\~~;.~.~.et~~~~lh~r~t?~· Just another calendar story
sewral peopk rL·taining office pos­both Notre Dame and St. Mary sitions and h·t•ping a huge office security forces hHvc already en­
open to at-comnHHiatc them." Un­by Fr. James Grinchaell official calendar. However, a stud­held on Monday at 8:00 p.m. will
rolled in the course.
prnnoum-eahk <,tatcd. Staff Reporter & Copyreader ent could conceivably take a semes­commence at 12: IS p.m. on Tues­
Also being forced from his
llnpronoum-eahk explained his ter off. In such cases the student day, 4:30 p.m. on Wednesday,
position is Fr. Larry Jollie. 
Ill'\\ joh would allow him to he more In a believable move, the must re-apply for admission back etc... This will enable students to
Currcntl.v he holds the undefined
clo.,elv a.,.,m·iatcd with the students. Academic Council voted in a new 
eat at least two different meals a
position as Unpronounceable's as­
Sttull'.nh applauded U nprmwum·c­1976-1977 bicentennial academic day and help the dining halls to
~istant. "That position will be
abll''~ plan but denied reports that calendar at a meeting last night. conserve food.
L'nl;trged." .Jollie said. Jollie's new 
alTair~ were lacking. The calendar was devised by All underclassmen will accumulate
titll' will he the Director and Mike Gassperson and includes a total of 76 credit hours for theCoordinator of all Oil-Campus several innovations never before year. This will allow for a jointAthll'tic and Social Activities. 
I 
attempted by any school. graduation of the Junior and Senior.Iolli,· speculat,•d hb job would The calendar will include: Class. Seniors will be able to obtain link him mainlv with the ACC and A total of 13 semesters in honor two degrees with their 166 credits,Corb~··..,. For tliis rca~on he plans to of the thirteen original colonies. and Juniors will receive one degreemovc hi.., residl·ncl' to some vacant Each semester will be composed of since they only total 136 credit room on that ~ide of campus, eleven days, ten class days and one hours.
pos.~ibly the tap room in the Senior day for finals. Since finals only last The elimination of both classesBar. 
two hours, they will all be held in will prevent over-crowding of theOther administrative changes the morning and registration for Business School and undergrad­were also disrlosed. Brother the following semester will be held uate dorms at the same time.
Viactor Crisco-vac. another staff that afternoon. Professors recovering from the
mt•mber, will become the propriet­GRINCHAELL
Each student will be required to added class load will also benefitor of the new campus night club take at least two courses per into Notre Dame and state reasons from the absence of the 1978 Senior and disco, an establishment that 
semester. This will enable the plan why taking a semester off was Class. to be economically feasible. necessary. There will, however, be The increase in next year's Due to the size of the semesters, a one day break on Christmas. tuition has not yet been deter­no breaks will be included in the "After all, we are a Catholic mined, but due to the increased use
Improved 
institution," commented Fr. James of classrooms, infirmary and other 
(continued from above) 
Grinchaell, ruler of the Academic campus facilities the increase is 
The location of the night spot has 
CounciL expected to be considerable.
male service 
not been disclosed, but an area 
In order to alleviate overcrowd· "The calendar is truly worthy of 
larger than the ACC has been 
ing, the student body will be Notre Dame in this BicentennialNo Byline suggested so that enough "neutral subdivided into three groups. One year," commented Gassperson. "ItIt's Too Short 
space" will be available for every­group of underclassmen will attend was a real challenge getting the one. school from June through Feb· Academic Council to pass it." Fr. Moose Milky, director of ruary, one third from September One Council member stated, "I
Ombudsperson Gidget MacDon­
campus residence, will be reas­through June and the remaining didn't know what the hell I was
nell said yesterday that campus signed to campus security as a students will start in December, voting on. I thought we weremail delivery will become more member of the late-night division. completing their studies in August, agreeing on whether to go tocflidcnt. Previously campus mail Milky's job will be to stop parietal 1977. Sweeney's after the meeting."
did not arrive at its destination violations and prosecute (perse­The selection of students for An Absurder reporter was ablefrom between two to six months cute) all offenders. Milky has also each division will be based on what to track down Grinchaell after thefrom its mailing date. accepted a the
staff position on 
year their home state was admitted meeting to ask him his opinion on
According to MacDonnell the
Unpronounceable advertises. Absurder. As a member of the into the Union. Students from the new calendar.
mail will now be delivered within a Sports Department. Milky will states admitted before 1832 will "It has over 140 class days."
month after it is mailed. The 
serve as Far Northern corres­
In order to dispel any conflict of attend the first rotation, those from Grinchaell gloated. "It fulfills the
delays resulted from the former
interest charges. Unpronounceable pondent to the Canadian Wilder­states that joined the Union before most important requirement for a
Ombudsman Director reading all
addL·d he had sold all his stock in ness. 1898 will comprise the second calendar.''
the mail personally before it was
Baskin Hobbins Franchises at the Plans fot· the reuse of the ofiice division, and the final section will When asked if he approved of
delivered, the Ombudsperson said.
Mock Stock Markel last month space vac1ted by Student Affairs include undergraduates from states the one day break for Christmas he
A committee of mail readers has
afiL·r that group could not be personnel have not been released admitted prior to 1976. replied, "Yeah, we'll have to work 
now been appointed who will now
pnsuaded by Unpronounceable to yet. The possibility of the space Courses for the upcoming year on that one to get rid of it. I hate
write up a summary of the contents
opl'n an icc cream franchise on the becoming a 24-hour lounge is likely will be accelerated approximately turkey.''
of all mail for the Ombudsperson's
campus. according to a spokesman for 700 percent. Classes will be held The same reporter also contacted
late night readings.
In other action, Dean of Students C.R.A.P. (Committee Reorganizing everyday, except for weekends, for Fr. Hesburgher, President of the
"The added manpower will ex­
James Humor will relinquish his Assigned Places). four hours. Three time slots are University for his comments on the
pedite things quite a bit," Mac­
position to administrate the St. "Chances are, this is highly available: 8:00 a.m. -12:00 p.m.; issue.
Donnell said. She added that she
Michael's Laundry and Campus unfeasible," Unpronounceable 12:15 p.m. -4:15 p.m.; and 4:30 "In my 24 years as president I
hopes the students take advan~age
Dry Cleaning Service. Rumor was. said. "Then we may have to p.m. -8:30 p.m. Courses will be have never vetoed a decisioo of tho 
1 ·of the improved, ~erviq.:.
ap~oin~c~-?·Y a ' grim a9d·white~ , reaP, point. ourselve~.;' Ntated eveF:y Aay so that a class Acadbmic,Councih" be.stated. •. ·• ................. ''I." ... 4 • • • • • • ' 

~ 

r 
,._--Gossip Shorts-­
Smelly Sex 
Footsie, lnd.--In his new book to be published next month by Saturday Review Press-Dutton, pidiatrist Bill Rossi takes a look at the titillating(?) aspects offootwearfashion throughout history. He includes curious bits of psychological opinion and a review of some kinky practices related to sex, feet and shoes. Is the foot, and by extension the shoe. a sex symbol? Did you know that foot tickling was popular among the Russian nobility before the Revolution? Have you always loved tassel mocs but never known why? For these. and other startling answers, read The Sex Life of the Foot and Shoe. 
Bye, cen 10 E L 
Luckenback, Texas--Awards were recently handed out for "the most tasteless exploitation" of the nation's 200th birthday in Lucken­bal~h. Texas. Omaha was dubbed the Bad Taste City for publicizing a b1son named Tennial. Two business firms tied for an award--the Falstaff Brewing Co. for bicentennial beer cans, and the Jackson Casket Co. for its red, white and blue flag-lined caskets. The "Bob and Betty Sanders Show" on WBBM in Chicago was cited for the greatest verbal abuse of the 200th birthday. The couple frequently remarked that they were "in it for the buck. anyway." A special award 11cnt to the NFL for sponsoring an essay contest on "The NFL 's note in American History." 
Nothing to read here 
No See City, Nowhere--After a while, one begins to wish that Rock Bottom Productions had never come up with the Pet Rock. After Shampoos. rock food. genealogy books, what could be next? An Invisible Piranha. Selling at $4 retail, the Invisible Piranha comes complete with goldfish bowl and tiny skeleton--just to prove that the !ish has been there. The package includes an instruction book on Piranha care. which incidentally explains that a bowl of spaghetti, a cow or sheep will keep the creature happy. Inevitably, all this competition is bound to make live animals feel unloved. 
,QjjCampus Yesterday~ 
6 am  --mass exit, time for all parietal violators to exit respective on-campus halls before maids come to work (o-c lust-seekers sleep on), all campus dorms  
10:4  am  --lecture, "use of cb radio in avoiding campus security" by arthur peach, south gate booth, $50  
4 pm  --lecture, "the molecular fission of monocleidisdopo­lous and fincleladision under the influence of coors," center for discontinuing ignorance, will receive $4 for coming  
8 pm  --movie, "deep throat," sponsored by the infirmary, knights of columbus cellar  
8:30 pm 9 pm  --war, dillon vs. stanford, sponsored by student activities office, anything goes--from obscenities to switchblades, dean rumor's office --meeting, junior class board meeting, barnaby's, mug club card needed, check brains at door  
10 pm  --sports, thumb wrestling club sponsored by keenan, grace pit  championships,  
11:59 pm  --mass entrance, time for all parietal violators to enter respective on-campus halls before official parietal violation time begins (o-c lust seekers, have another drink). all campus dorms  

This doesn't make sense 
by Barbara Zeer Lay-Out Editor 

Ex-Student Body President Fred B~Tned is still complaining that the Absurder emphasizes the failures of student government and treats their accomplishments as not being newsworthy enough to print. In a special news conference yesterday Byrned set the record straight once and for all. 
Byrncd claims he was responsi­ble for the good lobbying effort to lower the drinking age in Dome­land. He gives Louie, Nickie and Wally credit for their help. "I was also responsible for the Laugh-In earlier this year." he said. 
Byrncd also said it was his doing that the Mardi Gras was such a success this year. "I went out and sold two raffle tickets. and I know the students followed from my example." he stated. 
The ex-president also claimed to have added immensely to the revenue of the Huddle and Ice 
Don't read this! 
Notice: All articles in the ABSURDER are fictitious and are intended to poke fun at various pooh-bahs and the OBSERVER staff itself. The staff hopes the readers don't take offense and can laugh along with the rest of us. . .. 

Responsible person. 
Cream Shoppe, plus the pool tables 
under the Huddle. "It's nice to 
relax after a hard hour at the 
office," he remarked. 
Contrary to popular belief. Byrn­
ed took no credit for Notre Dame's 
recent loss in the NCAA finals. 
"Heck. I was on break then!" he 
exclaimed. "But I was responsible 
for the Laugh-In earlier this year," 
he added. 
Byrned also took no credit for the 
bad weather during Wacky Winter 
Weekend. "That was a precident 
set by McLaffiand," he said. 
However, he said he was influential 'un the good weather ·for Carney 
Thursday April1, 1976 ,. page B
the absurder 
Motleys choose Wallace, Bremer 
by Elmo Slobodnick Prune Editor 
Demonstrating lethargic concern for political reality, delegates to the Motley Political Convention nom­inated Alabama Governor George Wall ace as the 1976 Democratic presidential candidate on the twenty-sixth ballot at 6:30 a.m. Saturday. 
Later Saturday, delegates en­raged by the choice struck back by drafting Arthur Bremer for the vice-presidential spot. 
The circumstances of Wallace's victory were explained by Jim "Whizz" Raynoll, temporary chairman for the convention. 
"Well, you see there were three delegates still awake when we held the twenty-sixth roll call vote and the guy from Alabama cast his delegation's nine votes for Wallace and the votes for Udall from the 
SIC plans announced 
by Vivian Browne 
Mitchell Gwynne, chairperson of the Sophomoric Illiterate Celebra­tion (SIC) Committee, announced today that five people have agreed to make guest appearances at this year's event. Gwynne prefaced his announcement by noting that SIC was begun in 1836 with the publication of The Awful Disclos­ures of Maria Monk, for the purpose of bringing the common people into close contact with the nation's leading producers of per­verse, smutty and generally value­less literature. Former SIC's have featured such guests as Alfred E. Newman, "X," "Z," and the writing staff of The Doris Day Show. 
Peter Bunchley, the man who made enough money off of one shark to stock an ocean with them, will come to ND to discuss "The Meaningless Sex Sub-Plot, or How to Pad the Too-Short Novel." Gwynne cautioned students to be careful when buying Bunchley's book to make sure they don't get the condensed version by mistake. 
"Reader's Digest ruined the book," Gwynne complained. "By tasteful editing they managed to improve its quality 400 percent." Bunchley is rumored to be working on another novel, tentatively entit­led Claws. 
Later in the week, SIC will fc.ature Ted Agnew, a new-comer to the literary scene, although experienced in fiction-making. Agnew will discus his first novel, One Flew Out of the White House, the tale of a high government official forced to resign under pressure from pompous purveyors of preposterous poppycock. 
"We have great hopes for the poor quality of Ted's novel," Gwynne stated. "Our hope is based on our previous experience of his work.'' 
The third confirmed guest is poet Alfred, Lord Keats, a specialist in the limerick. "Alf" is best known for his works ''A Garbage-Collector from Portage" and "The Dog Who had Forty-Two Kittens.'' Keats wittily replied to the SIC invitation in verse: 
'75. "But I don't worry about the weather too much." he added. "South Bend isn't too coopera­tive." 
Byrned takes credit for dressing himself every morning, even though Gassperson sometimes comes over to help. "Those shoelaces can be tricky some­times.'' Byrned remarked. 
Byrned also claims he helps Fr. Hesburgher choose his wardrobe. "I kinda like black myself, and Hesburgher was in perfect agree­ment with me after I showed him letters from irate parents on his last appearance in canary yellow," he explained. 
Byrned takes no credit at all for the failure of the food co-op. "I though someone else was handling it. However, I was responsible for the Laugh-In earlier this year." 
Hawaii and Maine delegations totalled nine, too," Raynoll mut­tered. 
"As the chairman, I was sup­posed to break the tie," he yawned. "But I wanted Mandella the Fighting Chicken myself, so we decided to flip a coin instead of taking another vote and Wall ace 
won.'' 
Bremer, who was considered a "compromise" protest candidate, · took the VP nomination away from Dick Gregory and Julian Bond, the main contenders for the spot, on the second roll call Saturday after­noon. 
During the first ten ballots Friday night, the vote was a dead heat between California Governor Jerry Brown, Arizona Congress­man Morris Udall and Georgia Governor Jimmy Carter. On the eleventh ballot, the California del-
The Soph. Illit. Celebration Is a tribute to nauseous creations. I'll be glad to attend The SIC in South Bend. Thanks, guys, for the swell invita tion. 
Keats will be joined by fellow­poet Chugs Seagrams, whose 
SIC 
works have been widely-published on the walls of the New York subway system and various drunk tanks throughout the city's bor­roughs. Seagrams has also been anthologized by Masters and John­son in their soon-to-be-published book, Sexual Perversion and Its Expression in Modem American Society. Seagrams work appears anonymously under the title "Case 
D." 
The final confirmed speaker for the SIC is a former Math teacher and current author of "My Search for Pammy Herbst.'' Gwynne noted that the work may be considered by some as an exploita­tion of his former fiancee's sensa­tional kidnapping and trial, and said he plans to encourage this attitude. 
"He even offered to wear his bandages and Princeton warm-up suit for an extra $50," Gwynne said. "For another $50, he said he'd break down at the podium." 
Other guests will be announced as they confirm their invites, Gwynne said. In the meantime, the SIC committee is still in search of a place to hold the event. The most likely spot at the moment is "The Torch," a local night club and burlesque joint. 
Token SMC story 
By Mar Hoga Dancing Editor 
St. Mary's has always been innovative in the field of campus living. We all remember the renowned "St. Mary'sExperiment" 
which attempted to restrict men from entering the dorms. This experiment promoted another prac­tice: relay races up the walls. 
The latest in St. Mary's line of revolutionary changes this spring is a lottery system replacing Student Body elections. The lottery was introduced because the ballot could not accommodate all I. 700 names of the students wishing to be Student Body President. 
However, some students expres­sed concern that the lottery would produce a Student Body President who is not qualified for the position. 
Joan McFcrment incumbent Stu­dent Body President. reassured them that anyone can do the job. 
The lottery was held todav at lunch in the St. Mary's dining-hall because its atmosphere is condu­cive to picking things (as in out of your food). John M. Dugin was named the winner. 
Although many students com­plained that the lottery was fixed. Dugin claimed he knew nothing about it. "I thought it was a raftlc." he said. However, in his acceptance speech. Dugin prom­ised he owuld do his best saying he would be happy to take control of students' bodies next September. 
Even  Notre  Dame  seems  im­ 
nressed  with  the  result  of  the  
lottery.  It has been rumored that  

Fr. James T. Grinchaell plans to look into the possibilities of such a system at Notre Dame next year. 
egation's support for Brown disap­peared and the convention became a free-for-all. 
By the time police were called in to restore order, it was the four­
teenth  ballot  and  Mandella  the  
Fighting Chicken,  a  favorite  son  
candidate  from  Guam,  had  380  

votes, one under the total needed to take the nomination. 
On the fifteenth ballot, however, the Michigan delegation declared they would rather "elect a turkey than a chicken'' and threw their entire delegation behind Hubert Humphrey. This set off a landslide of votes for the senator from Minnesota, who had received two votes on the previous ballot. 
Somewhere around the nine­teenth roll call, it became clear that no candidate was going to achieve the required 381 total of votes and this rule was suspended by a unanimous voice vote. It was decided that the winning candidate need only poll a majority of the votes cast. Following the decision, approximately 600 delegates left the convention, with 25 die-hards remaining to slug it out among themselves. 
Two hours later, Wallace won. 
Some analysts were concerned with the possibility that animosity could develop between Wallace and Bremer, because the latter was rumored to dislike the Alabama governor. But supporters for Bremer, who is presently in jail, pointed out that he would poll many sympathy votes for the ticket from fanatics and lunatics, who comprise a large percentage of the voting population. 
They also contended that Wal­lace was in no danger of being assassinated by Bremer, or anyone else, because of the strong gun­control plank passed Thursday night by the convention. The plank calied for the installation of booby trap devices on all guns in the United States. When the trigger is pulled, the booby trap "blows the gun apart." 
Other platform proposals passed Thursday night included a pro-anti­pro-abortion plank, a women's rights bill (rumored to have been introduced by Mike Sheistner, platform chairman) calling for the repeal of the 19th Amendment and a busing plank advocating the busing of all white children to black schools and all black children to white schools. 
The busing plank passed by one vote and afterwards a number of bruised delegates charged mem­bers of the Black Alliance with the use of physical intimidation in obtaining passage of their propos­al. 
Several visitors to the convention Friday said they were shocked by the amount of beer-drinking and bottle-waving exhibited by the delegates. 
The observation was corrobor­ated by some forty drunken dele­gates who had to be removed from the convention floor Saturday afternoon. A number were heard to say it was the best Armory Party they had ever attended. 


The Absurder 
Editors: Gregg Bangs and Val Zurblis 
. Non-Gifted Writing Staff: Thomas O'Neil, Robert Mader, Patrick Hanifin, ~art. Hogan, Maureen Fly~n, Phil Cackley, Barbara Breitenstein, Eileen O'Grady, j1m Commyn, Martha Fanmng, Marge juntwoit, Denise Persinger, Val Zurblis and Gregg Bangs. Photos, Ads and Fine advice: Chris Smith 
~ Sure looks like the real thing, don't it? 
Thursday April1, 1976 
Hang 'Em High 
What this university needs is a good old-fashioned public.: hanging. 
Many people have c.:omplaincd that this has been a really "dead" year in whic.:h very little exciting has happened (and judging from the erap this rag has been running lately they arc not far wrong). What we all need is a little excitement to liven things up and get us through! the last long pull between the end of the major sports seasons and linals. Granted. we have An Tostal but after you have seen someone mangled on a football tield, mud volleyball just does not make it. 
A publie hanging would certainly give us excitement. In Merry Olde England everybody in town would gather to sec someone swing. The event was an occasion for family outings. It would thus be perfcl't for putting some of the old family spirit back into ND life. 
There arc many ways the excitement could be huilt up around this new spring Hanging Festival. 
Since the Hangman and Hangee would be instant University celebrities there would be intense c.:ompctiti~m to win these coveted positions--especi­ally that of Hangcc which would be a once in a lifetime opportunity. The obvious way to choose would Ol' to have an election which would itself be an occ.:asion of cxccitcment. The position of Hangman would of eoursc have to go to an administrator and there would no doubt be intense rivalry for this honor hctwcen the provost, the dean of students and the vi<.:l'·prcsiclcnt of student affairs. 
Any student or fac.:ulty member would be eligible to run for Hangcc (and should any promising c.:andidatc be too shy to step forward his supporters c.:ould run a write-in campaign). Candidates would fc~toon the campus with posters promising to chop harder and faster. or to kick higher and dangle longer than any of their opponents. 
The Absurder would cover the campaign and after cardul interviews, would endorse candidates for each oflic.:e. These candidates would inevitably lose and the Absurder's endorsement would become known as the "kiss of life". 
After a suitable build-up the Hanging Festival 
concerts 
would be held in the stadium some sunny spring afternoon (South Bend weather cooperating) a week or two after break. A gallows could be erected in the middle of the field and decorated with blue and gold. 
Students would side with either the Hangman or the Hangcc and display signs supporting their favorite (no allusions to rubbers, please). The band would parade around the gallows playing the victory march. 
To warm up the crowd before the main event the Leprechaun could burn one or two of the cheerleaders at the stake. Then the University Chaplain could deliver the invocation c.:ommending the lucky winner of the election to the hands of a l~nely god. Fr.Hesburgherwould be present to give h1s ''best-student-body-in-the-world'' speech and commend everyone for helping to fight world hunger (the body would of course be given to the Hunger Coalition for distribution in Bangladesh.) 
Finally. with suitable ceremony, the Hangman and Hangee would march up the gallows stairs arm-in-arm and would give their acceptance speeches to the cheering throng. The Hangman would carefully knot the silk rope aroung the Hangce's neck and step back. The Hangee would give a jaunty wave to the crowd, the trap door beneath his feet would be released, and he would begin to twist slowly, slowly in the wind. (Careful statistics would be kept on his girations and future Hangce would try to beat his record.) 
Perhaps after a couple of years the show would be broadc.:ast on national TV. Other schools would pick up the idea and it would become a customary spring festival in the nation's universities. Notre Dame would be the rcc.:ognized national leader in hangings. Hanging would become an NCAA sport. 
But most importantly the students, faculty and administrators would leave the stadium each year with the warm glow that arises from the excitement and family spirit of such a community festival. They would march back to their classes and offices revitalized and ready to fac.:c the last weeks before finals. 
A new Notre Dame tradition will have begun. 
_th_de.,a_b_s_u_rd_e~r~----~c~-~ 
Dea letters 
BoxQ 1 l 
Ed. Note: THE OBSERVER has often been accused of having the kind of taste and tact commonly associated with mad dogs. But If you think the letters we print arc tasteless, look at some of the ones we got but didn't. !Names arc withheld by request of our lawyer.! 
Jail-House Blues 
Dear Editor: 
We arc some prisoners incarce­
rated in the penitentiary and would 
admire it incessantly if you'd print 
our letter within the student paper. 
To ~oncis.cJy state our purpose, we wnte th1s letter seeking corre­spondence. It is our desire to correspond with anyone of what­eve.r maj?r who's sincerely and ~enously mterestcd in exchanging 1dcas adn concepts with us. We feel certain we retain suflicicnt knowledge as regards as the prison to lend an insight into its activity as well s we're cognizant beyond doubt that there are a number of relative college subjects which the student can in turn assist in 
elevating our conscioiusncss on. Who knows? Who can now be the judge--perhaps the experience it­self might eventuate in something developmental. We warm heart­edly welcome the chance. 
The Girls in Le Mans 
Pretzel logic 
Dear Editor: 
Don't despair over the forth­
coming ~ostal Service price in­
crease of three cents per letter. 
Upon reading the news in Friday's Absurder. Freshman Hildebrand "Blooper" Bloopcrstcin astounded the dinner table with hi~ brilliant displ~y of intelligence. "Blooper'· cxclauncd, ''I'm gonna buv a truckload of ll'n cent stamp~ ;10w before the pri<.:e goes up!" 
Because of our deep concern for the entire s:udcnt body WL' decided to pass along this mill-stone of logical thinking. 
lza Genius 
greetings 
Dear Editor: 
Hi! Just a friendly Iii' note to say that today's page looks really fine and also to ask where in this du.ng-lad~n. inept. maladroit. pu­~rlle, fac1le,----nddcn organisation IS my god-damned filthy, miserable ~ittance ?f a paycheck you cgg­taced, m1asmal, seething heap of parrot dropping laden Hawaiian elephant----? 
RespcctfuiiJ yours, 
Z. Mlglio Fuhblo 
P.S. You may be pleased to note that butter still docs not melt in my mouth. you miserable, shylockian parsimonious cad! 


hug is just plain cheeky 
The fantastic new rec.:ording group Hug c.:amc to the ACC the other night with their orthodox and boring brand of music. They played to an equally bland audi­cnc.:c of 927 domcrs and I0,073 wild and uproarious townies. 
I started the night off regularly tnough by partaking in the smok­ing of some really far out Grade A Guatamaian banana. When ap­proached by an oflicer. the one and onl~· Okic Haggard of the Muskog­gcct Polil'c Force, I hid my banana quic.:kly under the impression of impending p rosccution and retri­bution, not to mention missing the fantastic Hug and losing my pink hippo to boot! However. Okic rcleivcd my fears be telling me he was c.:ool and he pulled out a 7-Up spoon, which we quickly made usc 

Hug came out onstagc to the thunderous applause of the townies and the snores of the domcrs. Unlike their sister group Kiss, which dresses up in outrageous ghouly outtits, Hug dresses practi­cally in the buff, with only a few lig leafs and some Alberta Balsam eye-liner outlining their lavishly displayed cheeks. Wow! It was outrageous! 
Lead Guitar player Easy Stringer started things off with some incre­dibly heavy riffs which soared with intensity and meaning. Even Okie was impressed. Lead singer Mick Mouth sang his hit "Bad Breath" and at the end of the song the band members threw out some 200 bottles of Scope. 
There is something about this group that makes one believe in them: maybe it is their opcness, 

joe cool tweeter 
both physical and otherwise. They arc so honest and wantablc--maybe this is why bass player Bertha Bottom was carried off by loving groupies halfway through the con­cert. 
Drummer Max Xnare entertain­ed the crowd by throwing his drumsticks out into the crowd--un­fortunately, he also threw out a few sticks of lit dynamite that were going to be used for the light show. For the aesthetics, this was ac tually great for the hot items clcred out a large scxtion of the obnoxious townies. 
After playing for a generous twenty minutes, (long by most groups point of view) the group c.:amc back to an empty ACC for an encore performance of three hours. 
Okic. however, stayed and said the end of the song ''Mascara'' was truly a groovy scene; "All of a sudden this giant eye came down and it's mascara ran all over the group. A great end to a wild 
evening 
lead Singer Mick Mouth, guitarist Easy Stringer and drummer Xnare show what makes Hug the cheekiest group around. (photo by the funny 'little guy] 
------·---­
Fr. Bi II Foohey===========================: 
Having a rap 
with the one 
and only 
lonely god. 
Let me get the name-dropping 
out C)f the way right now. I had 
lunch the other day with the Lonely 
God. He recently became a student 
at Notre Dame. 
"What's your major?" I asked 
him. 
"Loneliness," he told me. 
"What's yours?" 
"Relevance," I answered him. 
"With a minor in pseudo-journal­
ism." 
"1m lonely," he confessed to me. I tried to console him by offering him one of my favorite quotes--from Chapter Five, verse 13 of the Rolling Stone: "Life's a bitch." 
"Thanks," he said. "I needed that.'' 
I smiled. I knew what he meant. It had the same effect on me when I discovered it one morning while meditating upon a sunrise in Elkhart. 
Still, however, I found him distraught. 
"Why don't you write a letter to Father Griffin?" I asked him. "He's lonely too, you know." 
"I tried that," he pouted. "But he keeps writing me back letters about an old bitch without teeth who sells apples or something on 42nd street. Hell, he never answered me directly. And be­sides, that old woman's a Com­munist and a Buddhist. I pulled the file on her years ago.'' 
"But she's a human being," I pronounced. He looked surprised. "And I'll bet she's lonely too. We're all lonely." 
"Really?" He was shocked. "Well, everybody but football players and people who have read 
my book, How I Found God 
In a Bottle of HaJey's MO by Father 
Bill Foohey.'' 
''How much does it cost?'' 
"Only $14.95, but it's a bargain 
at any price," I answered him. 
"But what was I doing in a bottle 
of Haley's MO?" he asked. 
"No, not you," I corrected him. 
"The Happy God." 
"But if he's been hiding out in a bottle of Haley's MO. and I've been here at Notre Dame answer­ing letters from a quack dog-keep­er, who's been minding the world?" 
"No one, I guess," I said to him. "That must be the problem." 
"Of course!" he shouted. "After the death of the angry God, I expected the Happy God to take care of things. I was too grieved to function." 
"Of course," I sighed, leaning forward to grasp his hand. "I know how it is." 
He rose from his chair and moved toward the door. "I promise to be a good God," he told me. 
"I'm sure you will be," I told him. "I have confidence in you." 
"Thanks," he said. "Just one last thing. Could you see that my Absurder is hand-delivered to me in Heaven when I get there? I want to make sure I get there? I want to make sure I get the Dog-keeper's letter every week. 
The postal s.ervice was fine under the Gipper until he ran away with my secretary." 
"Of course," I said. "I'll put Joe Dill on that right away." · 
Castro entices B.C. after game 
bJ Basketball Smith 
Avoiding flying chairs and shouts of "Yanqui Go Home" are treachorous enough when visiting the island of Cuba. but they can onlY be more of a pain when you alsn have to play the University of H;l\ ana in basketball. This is what the Irish of Filler Philps had to do "·hen they tlew to th is commie-pin­ko island to play the highly touted "Cigars" in an international good 11 ill game. 
Lt~·kih· for the Irish. it's what's on the ~·nurt that counts and the Cigar~ were no match for the Irish hot !>hooting. being burnt out to a l'raJ.Zlc, 100-99. The slaughter was ll'd hY Brian Cantlv. known as "B.C.·.. tn the basketball world. Cantle,· 11 as fantastic as he rL·pcat~dll snuffed out Cigar rallies 'ingil'handcdly b:-.· shooting over, under. around and just running m·•'l' Ha1 ana's zones. By the time 

Head pointing facts out to Brian ''B.C.'' Cantley about the Havana Cigars, among other things. (photo by who else?] 
B.C. got done. the court looked like a tobacco road. 
Cantley was so impressive that he was offered a place on the Cuban Olympic Basketball team by Cigar Head Coach Fidel Castro. Castro supposedly offered him a tobacco plantation. two Russian built MIG's and Cuban heavy weight boxing champion Adello Stevenson as a personal body­guard. B.C. said he had to think it over and was 60-60 on the issue. 
Also impressive for the Irish was Robby "the Pumpkin" Salerno. Salerno had quite a few scores this game. including a few on the basketball court as he managed to keep every hair in place for a record shattering 52 straight games. "Goose" Smith ·and "Roulette" Mason also played well in the backcourt for the Irish. 
Another impressive performance was the one given by freshman 

a three armed weapon, Chet Connecticut. (photo by the Diddler.) 
Irish receive shot in the arm!!! 
by Steve Austin 
A select group of athletic depart­ment officials gathered on Cartier Field yesterday for the unveiling of Notre Dame's newest strategic weapon. the three-armed football 
pla~·er. 
Director of Laziness .. Mouse" 
Krucc introduced the man he feels 
will be the deciding factor in ND's 
season this year, Chester Connecti­
cut. 
"Chct is really quite an excep­
tiona! player." Kruce said. "He 
docs almost everything well--block­
ing. tackling, passing. We're still 
experimenting to find the best 
position for him. He'll play both 
offense and defense. of course," he 
added. 
Some of those present expressed surprise that Connecticut had esca­pcd the eyes of other recruiters. Executive Vice-President Fr. Ned J uicc later admitted to the Absurder reporter. "We didn't ex­
actlv recruit Chet. He is the 
product of extended research at 
Lobund Laboratory." Juice would 
of Connecticut was "produced." Assitant Director of Sports Mis­information Bob Beast said he anticipates some difficulties with the NCAA, but felt they could be overcome. "For one thing, with Chet playing both offense and defense we can eliminate one more player from the travelling team," Beast pointed out. "Chet isn't in top playing condi­tion right now," Head Coach Dean Devilish confided. "He's been 'raised' in a germ-free enviroment, you know, so he's been going · through an extensive innoculation program. It works out very well, though." Devilish explained. "He gets his shots in a different arm everytime, so each practice he can use at least two." When asked for comment, Con­necticut replied, "I'd just like to thank my parents--Dr. Mallard, Dr. Hosanna, Dr. Mender and Dr. Thor." Connecticut's parents were un­able to attend the ceremony, reportedly because they were wor­king on their new child, a cheer-. 
not specify exactly what percentage leader with three smiles. 
Smelly high on trip 
bJ Bo Mad 
Ver~ High Executive News Editor 
Senior Class President Rob Smelly announced yesterday that next year's Senior Class trip will be to the 40th Annual Hog and Poultry Exhibition in Kokomo, Indiana. 
Smellv said that the decision to change the trip from the Southern California Football game to the hog show was made on the basis on 
cost. Tickets for the trip will now cost only $3.67 per person. 
According to Smelly, class offi­cers felt that students would rather pay the lower ticket price, rather than spending several hundred dollars to have a good time. ·: B7side_s..who wants to go . to G'ahfornta JUSt to watch a bormg
•,·; '·r..:&"'"'·..•L""-..¥,:~....*....·t."'-•t\'•/.-_, "a "t,'*-• ,_ "-t. "'­
football game and get sunburned," Smelly said. 
Ten buses will be chartered to take the seniors to Kokomo. Each bus will carry 30 people and 15 kegs. Class secretary Ken Gator wanted to allot one keg per person but the other officers rejected that proposal. Gator, who. was inter­viewed while lying on top of a billiards table in Nickies, declined 
comment before passing out. 
Vice president Charlene Hands said the seniors will get to see such events as the Cow Chip Toss, hog calling, spitting for distance and poultry plucking. Other activities will include trips to the Dairy Queen and the all night gas station. 
Vidal Weed, Notre Dame's fabou­lous frosh. Weed turned in an agrcssive defensive game, fouling out in two minutes and being charged with six accounts of as­sault and battery. The John Birch society has picked up the tab on the assault and battery charges and has called Weed a great American for beating up "those commie pinko'*&#&!" 
Philps was egstatic about the win saying "Those Cubans were highly touted. but we hung tough like we always do and beat the stuffing out of them." Filler also commented "It's great to be representing America and they couldn't have picked a more representative school to do it. It's great to be associated with Notre Dame. The student body is the A# I greatest in America. I'm sure thev and the Gippcr were semi-responsible for our win today!" 
Wild women hit the sticks 
by E.O. Gravey The Irish EI 
Women's Sports broadened its horizon this year with the addition of field hockey to its list of track and field events. What, you may ask, is field hockey? 
Peculiar only to women, and no wonder, it is a game of intense concentration and mental strategy. More specifically this means you have two teams of nine screaming women, all with clubs in their hands, clamouring after a ball. 
Sound like a dangerous combina­tion? Astro Hotfoot, head honcho of the warriors, claims her women do it with style. 
"Field hockey is a game of real skill and execution. We may appear barbaric, but we can't help our­selves. Together we will make field hockey a dormity word at Notre Dame," said Astra. 
The women do add their touches to the game, though. They wear pleated wool skits to this gladiator­type get-together. 
A few of the grittier players ruin the effect. They refuse to shave their legs, preferring the Amazon­woman look. 
The game is played either on the women's favorite, grass;. or on Hotfoot's home territory, astra­
turf.  The  women  are  prevented  
from  playing high  (stic king,  that  
is(.  

Some of the all-stars include "Big Bad" Bradshaw, who even looks at the ball mean. "Butch" Maloney, along with "Bubba" Losurdo captained the team. They won the honors by clubbing the most opponents. "Hatchett-Woman" Hums played goalie. With a name like that, no one cam near the net. 
There's no denying the women are hard.. Before each contest, nails are served as toothpicks at training table. The main course is a blood meal. 
Those ladies don't give up until they see the whites of their opponents' eyes. In fact many fans claim they should institute a penal­ty box in the game so that some of the Notre Dame players could be put in -permanently. 
Much to the women's dismay, field hockey is only a fall sport. To compensate for this loss, the warriors are presently holding spring practice for next fall. Those women just can't get enough of that killer instinct. Their motto: "Have stick will kick...etc." 
SMiCs find the ideal dorm room 
baths, closets or telephone booths depending on the creativity of the
By Ma Juntwa resident.
and Deni Persi 
Although the girls arc freshmen and have the lottcrv number 488, they arc rcasonabh: s•1re that the
With room selection for next year underway at St. Mary's. many girls 

arc in frantic search for the ideal boudoir. However, we have found 
two girls who have found a room that fulfills their wildest expecta­tion. 
Their choice is a spacious, third­floor sanctuary, far from the crowd, in stately LeMans Hall. A crowd just sitting in awe in the center of the room, drew their attention las Sunday while room hunting. 
One of its various attributes is the large dining room table set off from the rest of the room by a small railing. Who could resist such a gem? 
If you climb a flight of stairs at the rear of the room you open onto a smaller music room, complete with an easy-to-play, follow-the­colors chord organ. The girls can picture friends gathering together to croon such favorites as "Red River Valley" and "Little Brown Jug". 
There is an adequate sleeping area on the lower level. It contains numerous single beds should guest decide to drop in for the weekend. There is even a room full of stylish lounging robes when you wish to entertain casually, but with a tlair. 
Candy dishes imd mini-sinks can be found at each exit. Bookcases, which are built into the walls, are now occupied by statues left by the previous residents, but can be removed easily and sold for a good price. 
The booths at the rear of the room can be converted to half­
\ -:*~.. '~ t.. \ //. l.'.. 1. ' .. ~." £ • J!.!/.".'.~.I ~-,._, ~-'· • ~-r l' t.t o f~·o o·Oc·t .,··-o...• 't"t'"a ·._·-.":, .,··-.·~-·'>~!-"'~~ ... 
room is theirs. The best and most important feature of the room is that uncxplainahlc feeling that someone is alwavs overhead,wat­ching out and he(ping anyone who enter~ its confines. 

-----------------------------~~~-------­

, 

~ -----,6~-----~t~~~e~o~b~s~e~r~v~e~r______T_h_u_rs_d_a..:....y_A...:..p_ri_l-~1-,~1~9_7_6_____ ---~ -----­
tNEw-Lo&iiQ"N..t 
Soloff heads Festival talent 
by Jack Whitehurst Staff Reporter 
[This is the first part of a two­
article series on the Collegiate Jazz 
Festival.] 
The eighteenth annual Collegiate 
Jazz Festival comes to campus this 
weekend. Friday and Saturday, 
April 2 and 3. The event, which is 
held at Stepan Center, features 
sixteen fine college bands and an 
impressive collection of judges. 
The festival highlights a perfor­
mance bv Lew Soloff and the 
Eastman ·School of Music Jazz 
Ensemble. 
The festivities will begin Friday 
afternoon at 2:30 in the new Music 
Building (next to LaFortune) with a 
~vmposium of the judges. The 
~\'lllposium. to which everyone is 
invited and encouraged to attend, 
11 ill be an informal dialogue with 
the judges about many jazz-related 
topics. Topics may range from their 
per-,onal careers. to the festival. to 
the jau world in general. Because 
the judges come from different 
backgrounds and schools of jazz. 
the~· ma.1· discus~ their different 
approaches to music. At any rate, 
tht' symposium is loosely struc­
tured so that the judges and other 
people who attend can concentrate 
the discu"sion on the topics they 
lind interesting and important. In 
pre1·ious years. the symposium has 
been a valuable experience for 
those who have attended. This 
~·ear's symposium should be no 
different. 
Frida.v evening. the festival will 
feature the music of six college 
bands. They bands include: The 
Notre Dame Big Band. the Moses 
of Indiana University Combo, the 
Oakland University Big Band, the 
Northwestern Big Band. and the 
Fredonia State Jazz Band. This 
session will start at 7:30 and run til 
around midnight. The talent dis­
played by these musicians should 
bring most of the audience back for 
more jazz on Saturday. Yet, the 
festivities on Friday night will not 
end at midnight. 
After this first festival session. 
the Notre Dame Jazz Band and 
other jazz enthusiasts will journey 
to Vegetable Buddies for more 
good times. The Notre Dame Jazz 
Band will perform along with other 
interested musicians from the fest­
ival. Everyone is invited to this jazz 
gathering. This event will conclude 
Friday evening's activities. 
Saturday afternoon. the festival 
will feature the music of five 
college bands. These bands in­
clude: the Wastenaw College Big 
Band. the Western Michigan Big 
Band. the Ohio State Combo. the 
Kent State Big Band, and the MIT 
Quintet. This session will take up 
where Friday night left off. Thi! 
session will begin at 12:30 and run 
til about 4:00. All five bands should 
give very enjoyable performances. 
There will be plenty of fine seats to 
match the fine music. so make a' 
point to attend this session. 
Saturday night, the festival will 
conclude in an impressive succes­
sion of musical talent. It begins at 
7:00 with the performance of the t\\ o high school bands that won the high school competition. At 8:00 the remaining college bands take the stage for the third and final college jazz session. These bands include: the Governor's State Big Band. the University of Illinois Big Band, the Chicago State Jazz Combe, the Indiana University Big Band (featuring Dr. George Ross 11 ho won the awards for best instrumentalist and best reeds player last year), and the North­western Combo. These bands ~hould amply warm the audience up for the fine performance to 
follow. 
At II :30. Lew Soloff and the 
Eastman School of Music Jazz Ensemble will take the stage for an anticipated fine performance. The 
Collegiate Jazz Festival judges' chairman, Mike Dillon. has ar­ranged for Soloff to have several practice sessions with Eastman before the Festival. so they will be well prepared for their perfor-1 w1nce. Last year, Eastman receiv­
. (.f, ,, • ' 
t 
•: 
t 
•
+ 
• 
• 
: 
• 
:
• 
• • 
• 
• • 
: 
•
•
• • • 
• 
• • • 
• • • 
: 
• • 
• • 
• • 
• • 
• • 
• ed a standing ovation from a large Blood. Sweat and Tears should awards. After hearing such fine Notre Dame crowd, so festival enhance their performance a great talent displayed by the college officials felt it would be more than deal. He has a fine jazz background musicians, the festival audience appropriate to invite them for this and much talent to offer. looks forward to the recognition special return performance. Lew The Saturday night session will outstanding bands and individual Soloff. former trumpet player for climax with the presentation of musicians receive. 
...++++++++++++++++++++++•+++++~ AND DELICIOUS f
• SHOP TO'''N & COUNTRY 
tSANDWICHESYOUf
VVJ 
D_ "JUST ARRIVED" tnt SCARAHS AND MUMMY ~ f~;~lf{;l~J BEADS FROM EGYPT
l;e3!JJJili.J~~ 
~~~rtg~-t Many unusual items. ,.z~~~;~-t·~\'(.
town & country ~ r-:;... 2340 miracle lane '"""'"' """' . m;;;~;~: ·~:~',"' 46544 
-· :,<-L' 
NEW TURQUOISE JEWEL.RY
SHJPMENT, ,,,, 
200f ff 11 1 /0 0 on a turquoise jewe ry 
ZUNI' NAVAJO, 
C 
SOME MEXICAN INDIAN 
\::J 
•WATCH REPAIR MARK D. HIRTH 
Licensed Watchmaker I ' 
• CLOCK REPAIR 
·Q.. 
• JEWELRY REPAIR 
~HI_RT_H_'S_J_EW_E_LE_RS_ 
• ENGRAVING 
913 W. McKinley Hwy.
• ANTIQUE 
College Square
WATCH 
Mishawaka, Indiana 
& CLOCK REPAIR 
(219) 255-3817 (219) 287-9893 
•TIMEX REPAIR 
Business Home 
.GRAND OPENING'1
I 
MILANO'S t 
fWE HAVE MOVED f 
6 6 
' BUT STILL 0 FFER' 
6 f 
•THE SAME PIZZAS
f f 
__JI ~! 
~ 
c 
i 
'i u --+--SHOPPING CENTER • 
~~ 
I RT.20 
~ 43l No. Hickory Rd. So Bend 
t HAVE ENJOYED f f OVER THE YEARSI
M "LL 
t MILANO'S .rl !815 W. McKINLEY I
' MISHAWAKA 
+++++++++ ~COLLEGE SQUARE)!! P_H_oN_E ~.t1_as_3 jt 
~ -­
Now aBose Direct/ReflectinQ 
l 
bookshelf speaker and its 
~Y~~~~h~~~~~:tbedor~e,youdon'tknowBOSE 

Come You Fightin' Irish 
TO TOWN & COUNTRY ·FOR YOUR FAVORITE 
WINES-LIQUORS 
Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM 
LIQUOR • WINE 
1O~lo DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC 1.0. 
BEER· BEST PRICE IN TOWN VOLUME DISCOUNT 
FREE DELIVERY 
FREE 
GOING TO A PARTY?? DELIVERY 
,.,_ ............... ,. ..........1 ............... . 
,. ••• #t. ..... """'"" , ...... .................... ..,.,..,~,-s-••1 ........ ..........~·.-:..--....·.-. ...-...-. "'' 
Fourth annual conference 
Ju n g s eminars 0 pen t0 day~.-......;NO.--W!-.;.;.,;H~IGH:.;.:..:ES;.;;;.;,::,TRA,:;.:;.:TI~NG;..;.;..;.;.;.;cH;.;..:...Ic~.J.:.:,;~~::..:,:~~~..:.;.:,;;NE:::...·--f 
The fourth annual "Conference on C.G . .lung" will begin Thurs­day. April I. and continue through Sunday. April 4. at the University of Notre Dame. 
Horn in 1875 in Switzerland, J ung has been descrived as the foremost depth psycholigist con­cemcd with the life of the soul. Hesearch adivities during his life­time have helped to produL·e clus­ters of Jungian psychologists in all areas of the world. 
Hev. JosephS. Dunne. C.S.C.. professor of theology at Notre Dame. will discuss "On the Heas­ons of the Heart" at an opening Sl'ssion at I p.m. Thursday. Experimental activities and group sessions arc scheduled for the remainder of the afternoon before "The Emergence of a Collective Consciousness." a talk by Dr. William Irwin Thompson. ft;under of the l.indisfarnc Association, at 8 
p.m. in the Center for Continuing Education. 
Writer. soldier and explorer Col. Laurens van der Post. London and Smtih Africa. will introduce and 
Dean Hoffman changes mind 
(mntllllll'd from page 1) they selected him. I think he's done an outstanding job there." 
Assistant Dean of the College of 
Business Administration, Vincent 
H. Raymond, termed Hofman's decision "very interesting." "If the man's been doing the job and he wants to continue, that's tine," he commented. 
Dr. Walter J. Nicgorski, a mem­ber of the Search Committee, stated "Hofman's interest in con­tinuing as Dean is regarded as a welcome development. He adds to the tield of candiaates a person of signiticant qualifications.'' 
Goldenberg, New Haven. of dose assocaition with .lung. The Another Literary Festival guest, Friday programs will include show­Robert Bly of Minnesota, will ings of "The Story of C. G . .lung: A discuss "His Poetry and .lung: A Region of Shadow" and the Amer­Talk. A Reading, A Happening" ican premier of "All Africa Within during a 7 p.m. program Saturday. 
discuss films made during I 6 years 
.. 
Dr. Thomas Kapacinskas, assistant Saturday events will open at 10 professor of theology at Notre Us. 
a.m. with a talk, "On Psychology Dame and newly elected vice and Literature," by Joyce Carol president of the Inter-Regional Oates of the University of Windsor, Society of Jungian Analysts of Canada. The winner of the 
North America. will discuss "On National Book Award, she was a .lung and Religion" at 10 a.m. guest last year at Notre Dame's Sunday. He is the editor of a Sophomore Literary Festival. forthcoming anthology on .lung. "Women and Psychology" is the Several participants in the con­topic of a I :30 p.m. session ference will close the I 976 campus Saturday where panelists include session with a discussion entitled Sr. Madonna Kolbenschlag of "A Word or Two Before You Go" Notre Dame. Carol Rupprecht of at 2 p.m. Liturgical service in Kirkland College. and Naomie Sacred Heart Church will follow. 
St. Mary's to host dinner for bicentennial celebration 
by Nancy Amatruda Staff Reporter 
St. Mary's College will host the 'Williamsburg dinner' on April 9, 10 and I I. This event, subsidized by the Bicentennial Commission, will celebrate our nation's 200th birthday. 
The dinner will be held in the basement of St. Mary's dining hall which will be converted into a colonial inn. The decor. food and music will represent pre­revolutionary times. Williamsburg newspapers and other souvenirs will be distributed amongst the guests. 
Festivities following dinner will 
include  an  evening  of song and  
dance.  
The  Williamsburg  dinner  is  

sponsored by the Community Relations Council comprised of South Bend community members and Notre Dame faculty. The 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR RENT 
For Rent next school term 5 Bed­rooms--2 baths, all furnished. porch, ott street parking. Near N D 9 month lease. 234.2626 
Summer rentals· 4 bedroom, 5 bedroom house, 1 bedroom apt., 3 bedroom apt.--all furnished. Near NO. Very reasonable. 234-2626 
4,5,6, bedroom houses. Completely furnished. EKtremely nice. Very close to campus. Sept.1916, 9 month lease. 233-2613 or232-7263. 
Summer houses and rooms tor rent-real close to campus. Furnish­ed. Ridiculously reasonable. 233· 2613 or232-7263. 
House tor rent-5 bedrooms, furnish­ed, utilities paid by owner, located near campus. $250.00 per month. Deposit, lease , required. Call 234-7925 anytime or 232-2088. 
5 room house, two bedrooms tor rent fenced yard, gas furnace, garage, fire place. Near Notre Dame, 1 block from St. Joseph Hospital. 
Milliken Rentals 282-2089 or 233· 5388. House and apartments avail­able tor June or Sept.
_____..__________ 
Summer apartment. Furnished two bedroom. air conditioning, shag carpeting, dishwasher. etc. Quiet and clean. Short walk to NO Rent negotiable. Chris 277-0953 
NOTICES 
Junior Class T-Shlrts (class of 77) will go on sale Friday In LaFortune LDbby. Be a complete person-only 
$2. 
Accurate, fast typing. Hours 8 am to 8 pm. Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. 
STEREO COMPONENTS 20-401!4 discount. all quality namebrands. RMS Audio 321 S. Main. 288-1681, Mon-Frl12 :00-6:00. 
Papers professionally and promptly typed. IBM Selective II and comp. lete typing service. Call 277-2922. 
Set your own hours and Income selling our line of handmade Indian Jewelry. Free details. Bluebird Manufacturing, 52A Bryn Maur SE, Alburquerque, N. M. 87106 
Linda's Letters, dlsertations special­Ists, typing at student rates-289­5193. . 
Will do typing. Experienced-themes manuscripts. call 233-8512. 
ND-SMC Council for the Retarded: No Sat. Rec. Picnic. Sunday Holy Cross Hall-NO 4:30 Jim Scott-1745 or Sue Maude 277.1182. 
Consenting Adults. The Gay Com­munity of Notre Dame. Hotline 8870 Fri-Sat, 8-10 pm or write Box 206. 
FOR SALE 
Krazy Kerwln--you•re not forgotten I 
TEAC 1600A Reel to Reel. $195 call Chris. 3485. 
For Sale -72 Fiat 124 Spider. 287-3059 Ask for Bob. 
WANTED 
Wanted-one used 5 or 10 speed bike. Good condition. Will pay $10-50. Call Kitty 1328. 
Desperately need ride to Cleveland, Ftlday April 2, Call Kathy 7995. 
Need ride to Pitt. April 2. call Bob 3665. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost one watch -small gold face, black cord band. Please call 288­3247. Has great sentimental value. 
LOST-Men's gold watch with black face. between Nickle's and North Quad. Call Dennis 1245. 
Nellie Lawlor lost her puka shells near Campus View--if found call 5432. 
LDst: set of Keys on Friday, March 26, possible in small foreigh car coming back from Nickle's. If found, please call Craig at 3336. 
PERSONALS 
Student Life Council SECRETARY needed 2-3 hours per week,student with some secretarial esperlence preferred. For information call 6111 or 84 11. 
Happy belated St. Pat's Day, GAR! 
·-Rosie. 
---.------------­
want a playgirl calendar? Write . J-Aiie, Qox 101'5'Le,JV1ans..·. ,', 
oirt:20iitcif3TM'ytum?"Rmg-n";;.. 
council's next event will be an open house on May 3. The time and place will be announced. 


Sunday is Family Day at The Boar's-Head! 
from Noon till10:00 p.m. on Sundays 
COMPLETE HAM or CHICKEN DINNER 


$3.95 

401 Grace: Figure this out! At racquetball she'll run and pant, her style not great but challenging us caused and unusual finale--a hug? He's great! Hearts to you!! 
To all lovely lasses, A handsome personable Domer would like to take you to the Stanford formal April 10. If availabel, please call Gelnn "Scit" 8658 
RUGBY SHIRTS-GET THE SAME SHIRTS AS THE CHEERLEADS-. ERS IN BLUE1/GOLD, GREEN­GOLD OR RED'IIBLUE FOR 13 DOLLARS. CALL DAVE 277-0948. 
Having a party? For the lowest prices on Kegs and cases and free delivery, call Dave 277-0948. 
To the freshman SMC girl who sat next to me on the midnight bus on the way back from the Bull Moose party and who lives on the second floor Lemans: I have to get in touch with you. Call George 1410. 
Sahmbo, lssy, Slylo, Hairy, and K irlos-God must have blessed me before he asked me to live with you Anish roaches!-Mr. Mike 
Jaye, Happy 22. May you have another year of great salads. Nance, Booby, Crowlette, Dodo, Betho, Kerry 
To the new PREXY. you had my electorial votes even though there wasn't an open ballot. Congratula­tions and good luck. The first lady. 
--~----..:..-.------­
J. Albers: Jet woman is no longer true to you alone. 

Dear Domer, Next year should be a real Gass after being Byrned this year. There will be few problems in any case, so don't have any Fitz .. we didn't. Cheese shop MSgr. and his lackey, Liner Seiner 
To the NO Student Body .. Thank you forgiving us the opportunity to represent you and your interests this past For those who voted, thank you for caring; for those who voted for us, thank you for your confidence; for those who support­ed us when we were criticized, thank you for Iyour compassion; for everyone who worked for us words are insufficient thanks, but they are all we have, any success we may have had would have been impossible without you. Good luck in the future. Byrne and Fitz. 
To Eunice, Jill, and the 14 year old boy--the light shines bright on the hill and it's not so far as you think! Praise the LDrd .. Therese 
Dear Pillar of Strength--May your first day of noninvolvement bring relief; may your second day bring back fond memories and may your weekend bring enlightenment... the boy from Westfield. 
Crazy moments. sincere discus­
sions, ups and downs, laughing, 
crying, despair, surprises and love. 
Goodbye is the hardest lesson of 
all. Let it not be forever and let us 
not forget. I care and love. Your 
Confident. 
J.N. April Fools! N-Happy Belated Birthday.. ·This 1S 't.ck 'you gu'vs cause I've always wanted one--K Have you heard the tale of young Zeke? To party games he often would sneak. Under a blanket he'd hide Till his clothers appeared outside At his boxers he bid us peek. There once was a boy named Tom, Who pants legs he liked to look down, At games he was quick, For he longed to play tricks, But It's a gon-dang shame, Everything takes so long. 
There once was a lad named Steve. Of his senses he'd often take leave; Though Animated Man he's called, By his actions we're appalled; And his swin trunks you'd never believe. 
Dear Grateful Fred (and all other Wisemenl Shalom and Merry Christmas no. s from the one in white. Many electric returns! Your favorite Fan-Andy I Bonzo 
Banana Boat: mleux en retard que jamais! But will 1 have to wait 10 months for the next letter? Heureux Anniversaire et Mellleurs Souhaits! See you in September.-­
K.K. In Angers. 
Dear Tom, Since this IS leap year and I'm dying with love for you, wfill you marry me? Tee-heel You silly torturer, you I LDve ya bun­ches. lno fooling this tlmei;MJH 
HAPPIEST FIVE MONTHS TO TWO OF THE BEST. I CANT THINK OF ANYONE I WISH GREATER HAPPINESS TOI for if youhave only love, then my love, without having anything but the power of loving, you hold the key to the entire world In your hand. the 3c kid. 
b_y Paul Stevenson  Carl  Schoenherr,  Dean  of  the  Working in coordination with ad­ 
College  of  Engineering  at  that  missions and  the athletic depart­ 
The  name  Mike  DeCicco  may  time, encouraged DeCicco to return  ment,  he  oversees  the  academic  
mean something different to a lot of people at Notre Dame, and that's heL'ause his responsibilities arc so diversified. DeCicco's range of duties include being assistant  to the golden dome and teach. Schoenherr did Notre Dame a tremendous favor in convincing DeCicco to return. DeCicco taught courses dealing with his specialty,  performance of the student athlete. DeCicco is in direct contact with professors, checking up on the standing of his 452 clients. He wants to know how the student is  -lr: 
professor of Aerospace and Mech­ heat  transfer  and  engineering.  doing academically,  if tutoring  is  
anical Engineering, head coach of  Today. he teachers a course entit­ reccommended  and  any  general  
the  fencing  team.  and  Academic  led Environmental  Synthesis  One  reccommendations or comments.  
,\dvisor to Student Athletes.  and Two for architecture students  "We're not  any  different from  
DcCtcco  graduated  from  Notre  in Mechanical Engineering.  any  other  department,"  DeCicco  
Dame  in  Januarv  of  1949  and  In 1954. after proving himself as  commented.  "We have excellent  
remained  to rccefve  his  graduate  a teacher, DeCicco moved into the  students, good students and some  
dcg.rec the following January.  He  coaching  realm.  He  served  as  only average to marginal."  
rc.-cived  hi~  Ph.D.  between three  assistant coach of the fencing team  DeCicco boasts  17  Notre  Dame  
..,,,!wnb:  Notre  Dame,  Massachu  under Walter Langford.  NCAA  Scholarship  Awards.  and  
'>L'tt'>  Jnqitute of Technology  and  In 1962. when Langford devoted  those  student  athletes  that  have  
1\,wark College of Engineering.  his duties elsewhere, DeCicco  as­ received  them.  Notre  Dame  is  
..h  "  '>tudcnt  at  Notre  Dame.  sumed the head coaching position .  second  onlv  to  the  Air  Force  
lkCicc,1 fenced on the 1946, 47 and  Today, DeCicco has two assistants,  Academy in. the number of NCAA  
4K fl'n, ing team.  He competed in  Ed DeVivo and Tim Taylor.  scholar!>hips  received.  the  Aca­ 
all  three  weapons.  although  spc­ ''My  assistant  coaches  have  Mike DeCicco is one of the most diversified individuals at Notredemy edging the Irish by only two  
ci.lli;inl! in foil.  done  an  outstanding job all  seas­ Dame. His duties include teaching, coaching and counsel ing. [Photo byawards.  
•  Llntil, thi~ ,·car. DeCicco held the lri... h record i'or best season record.  on." DeCicco stated. "Ed DeVivo is the man most responsible for  Mike Kron]The NCAA Scholarship Award is tirst tloor of the administration or just to attain a higher degree ofgiven to those students who have education. 
kncing  his  wav  to  a  29-1  ma:·k  Mike  Sullivan's  performance  this  building. has grown to the guid­excelled in both the classroom and of 452 athletes in 
acain"t ten ditlerent schools in I~l4H. for a winning percentage of .Yt1h. This season however, fresh­man Mike Sullivan broke DeCicco's record. dualing his way to a 53-1 mark. for a . 982 winning percent­age. "Mv record wasn't broken. it  year, while Tim Taylor coached Tim Glass and other epee special­ists." Since taking over as head coach in 1962. and coaching to the present. DeCicco has amassed an amazing record of 268 wins and onlv 33 losses.  in athletics. The award was received most recently last year. by Pete Demmerle and Reggie Barn­ett. A job that began twelve years ago with a desk in the extinct executive men's bathroom on the  ance a larger office in room 309. DeCicco makes sure that all varsity athletes have the necessary requirements needed for gradua­tion. Many athletes take summer school so they may lighten their load during their particular season,  You would think a man like Mike DeCicco would have his hands full with all his responsibilities, he certainly has a rigorous schedule. Although he has many duties, he knows how to handle them, and docs them all well.  
''as shattered.'' DeCicco remark­ed. "It was great as a coach seeing Mike Sullivan perform so well."  Twelve years ago. after standing out as a professor and a coach. DeCicco was asked by Fr. Edmund  Hard-hitting Galloway called on  
After receiving his Ph.D.. De­Cicco worked for the Kelmore Engineering Company in Newark,  Joyce, executive vice president of the University in charge of athlet ics. to serve as Academic Advisor  to fill Notre Dame third base void  
N;:w Jersey. During the summer of 1954, DeCicco visited Notre Dame for nostalgia sake.  to Student Athletes. DeCicco's responsibilities enta.iled observing the progress of student athletes.  Third  by Bob Brink baseman Mike  Galloway  Gallowav. an accounting major. chose to ~!tend Notre Dame two years ago because they offered him  dent in Gallowav's abilitv. "Mike's a good compcti.tor. and· he adapts very well," Kelly said. "His big  
has proven that he can adapt well.  an academic scholarship. He's still  asset is his bat control and aggres­ 
At the end of the  1974  season.  on scholarship. but now it's both an  siveness  at  the  plate.  He's  an  
the  Irish  ballclub  returned  four  academic and athletic scholarship.  excellent hit and run hitter. and he  
experienced seniors to the inticld  At Cocoa  Bca~:h  High School in  bunt~ well. He's not going to mi'>s a  
Consequently. former-head coach Jake Kline moved Galloway from shortstop. his natural position, to the outfield. in order to till the gap created by graduating seniors. In his sophomore year Galloway  Florida Gallowav was a three vcar letterman in b·ascha\1. and ~·ap­taincd the team for two vcars. His senior vcar he was a mcn;ber of the Florida state all-~tar team. "Flor­ida is a great place for baseball  lot of pitches." Gallowa.\· returns the praise for Kelly. "All the player., arc really happy with the job Coach Kelly is doing. I like him bccau-;e he plays aggre~sive baseball. such as base  
responded easily  to  the  new  sur­ because  of  the  weather  and  the  -;tcaling and the hit and run.··  
roundings. He was the second leading hitter on last year's team,  competition ... ~aid Galloway. After seeing very little action his  Galloway b optimistic about the team's chances this vcar. "We're a  
getting 27 hits in 85 at bats. for a solid .311\ batting average. He knocked in nine runs. and scored II himself. The most amazing stati!>­tic. however. was that he commi_t­tcd onl\' one error all season. despite .the fact that he was on unfamiliar ground.  freshman vcar. Galloway followed with his successful scco~d season. He's confident that he will continue this success. "I feel real good hitting this \'Car." he commented. "and I hope ihat I can improve over last year. I think I can because now I'm batting  young team... he said, "especially in the inlield. Auburn was a really good team. but that wa!'> their tenth game, and it was only our second. Everybody's looking forward to the season. By the end of the year I think we'll be really improved... Galloway is particularly anxious­ 
Last year's senior inticld is gone  third in the lineup which will mean  about the home opener because hi~  
now. and Galloway has once again  that I'll sec a lot more fast balls."  father is ll~·ing from Utah to sec the  
been called on to till the void. Head  "I trv to hit line drives and bat  game.  He credits  his  father  and  
Coach  Tom  Kelly  has  him  at  for  an ·average,"  he added.  "be­ grandfather  with  teaching  him  
another  new  position,  third base,  cause I don't have much power."  most  of  what  he  knows  about  
and  again  he's  adapted  to  the  Statistics verifv the accuracy of this  baseball.  
change. In six games during the team's spring trip to Alabama Galloway hit  statement. The majority of his hits arc singles, and he has yet to hit a home run for the Irish since he's  Galloway hopes that he can play well for his father on this Sunday's opener. He'II have to if the Irish are  
for a .333 average. with seven hits  been here.  to stand a good chance of continu­ 
in 21 at bats. 3 RBI's. and I scored.  run  Coach Kelly is equally  as  confi­ ing their two game winning streak.  
Galloway.  a  six-foot,  170 lb.  
Dominic Napolitan yesterday presen ted a check to the Bengal Missions  junior from  Cedar City,  Utah,  is  
for $17,157.53. The money was ra ised by the recent Bengal bouts.  happy about the move back to the  
[Photo by Tony Chifari]  infield.  "I like  it  better  because  
I've played the infield all my life, 
Missions get Bengal profits  and I'm just a lot more comfortable  
there."  
bJ Ray O'Brien  we never expectedc this turnout.''  No settlement  
Ycstcrda\' afternoon. Dominic J.  The two divisions of heavyweights were also  football a major  in baseball talks  
"Nappi"  Napolitano.  director  of  factor in drawing out the crowds,  
Non-Varsity Sports at Notre Dame and coordinator of the Bengal Bouts presented a check for SJi.JS7.53 to the Bengal Missions in care of Fr. Lours. Lours. who i:; the provincial of the order, will forward the mone~· to the missions throughout Bangladesh. This amount was more than a  according to Napolitano. This year was "Nappi's" 45th successful Bengal Bout tourna­ment. He emphasized the fact that a tremendous number of children arc saved from starvation because of the efforts of the boxers and this was the main objective of the bouts. The enjoyment of participat­ NEW YORK (AP) -Represent­atives of the Player Relations Committee and the Major League Players Association returned to the bargaining table Wednesday. and according to Marvin Miller. head of the baseball players' group. some progress was made on minor issues.  
~­.000 jump over last year's total of :10.000. "Nappt" later com­ ing and the satisfaction in winning were secondary positive results, he  The meeting, which lasted about three hours in Miller's office, was  
mented. ·'Exactly every penny that  said.  the 34th session between the  two  
c·amc in from the Bengal Bouts is mcludcd in this total. The boxers raised their own expenses."  Next vcar's bouts should even be more prosperous as seven champ­ions will be returning. These  sides. Afterward, both parties agreed to meet again Thursday, in the oftice of John Gaherin, head of  
..  "!'lappi" attributed the fine turnout to the increased number of bouts which reached 57 this year. On the success of the tournament Napolitano ~aid, "You always ex­t,,.,..,. '··· t ,.,....... ,.•c;; r,~,..nrrl hnt  bengal kings are: Dave Reyna 135 lbs .. Pat O'Connell 145 lbs .. Jim Quinn ISO lbs., Joe Coller 155 lbs .. Matt Ratterman 165 lbs., Doug Becker 200 lbs., and Ross Browner hf':J\'\·wPioht  the management group. Miller said there was general discussion on the major issues, but he did not elaborate. The major issue is a contract between the Mike Galloway, who hit .318last seasom for the Irish, is currently the owner~ and plaver<;. rPhntn  

the observer 
DeCicco.' jack-of-all-trades': teacher, coach and advisor 
fE>am'c; fn11rth ,,...,~;,,. hiHPr w;th a Tn ·wpra,..,. hv Chric; Smith1 



Join 
the third 
largest Family 
in the World . • • 
Imagine a family of 20,000 members in 80 countries around the world-that's a pretty big family, but that's what the Salesians are all about. They are a community of 
family minded individuals united for a common goal. 
The Salesians are made up of Priests, Brothers and Clerics -men studying for the priesthood but not yet ordained-who live and work together, equals in the Society, observing the same rules and enjoying the same privileges. St. John Bosco specifically wanted his Salesian communities to possess a warm, family like spirit where each member can grow and where both triumphs and setbacks are shared in the companionship of his fellow Salesians. 
The Salesian is highly trained for his mission, and he has the opportunity to go as far as he wants to; for the better his education, the better service he can give both to the Society and to the people he helps. He achieves his rewards in the realization of the good he accomplishes and the youthful hearts and minds lie inspires. 
If you are looking for a future that trades self-sacrifice for inner satisfaction . . . aimlessness for dedication . . . and the opportunity to help change the world of tomorrow by molding the boy of today, get more information from the Salesians. Fill out and mail the postage-free card today. 
(There is no obligation.) 
FIRST CLASS Permit No. 14 West Haverstraw, N.Y. 
Business Reply Mail 
No postage necessary if mailed in the United States. Postage will be paid by 
Salesians of St. John Bosco Filors Lane Haverstraw, N.Y. 10993 
Att: Father Joseph 
I I I I 
l 
I I I I I 
, 0\':·' 
J I_ 1 • 
Who are The Salesians? 
The Salesians are a modern religious society of Priests and Brothers, founded in 1859 by St. John Bosco. His concern for youngsters who needed help and encouragement began early in his life, and he eventually established schools and youth centers which grew and multiplied. The Salesians -the Society of St. Francis of Sales, named after St. John's favorite saint-were organized and the new order quickly spread from continent to continent St. John Bosco died in 1888 and was canonized in 1934 as the Apostle of Youth. 
Today his Salesian sons-some 20,000 strong­continue his work in over 80 countries around the world. 
What do we do? 
Our principal apostolate is with youth. Our mission in life is working with and for young people ... in boy's clubs, academic and technical high schools, summer camps, retreat houses, guidance centers, orphanages ...wherever boys are to be found. 
Unlike other orders whose apostolate has changed with varying conditions the Salesians have always been -and always will be -youth oriented. We're trying to prepare youngsters today for the world that awaits them tomorrow. Not an easy task in these times, but one which we welcome. 
Salesian Priests and Brothers also staff parishes . . . work with the press, films, film strips ... and, on voluntary basis, serve in many lands as missionaries. 
OUR MISSION IN LIFE IS TO BRING AID AND GUIDANCE TO THE YOUNG ... THE NEEDY ... AND THE FORGOTTEN 
The methods of St. John Bosco 
In the beginning, St. John Bosco was concerned with the hundreds of homeless boys who were often hungry 


What you could do as a Salesian Priest or Brother 
Help kids. Serve them with your mind ...your heart ... your hands ... and your will. You can bring them closer to God, influence them for the good and give them the chance to be better men someday. 
Every Salesian enjoys working with and helping boys 
and, as a Salesian, you are guaranteed the chance to help 
them in a wide range of endeavor. According to your own 
abilities and tastes you could: 
teach in an academic high school . . . become a technical instructor in such fields as electronics, drafting, graphic arts, electricity, architectural and industrial drafting, automotive mechanics, machine shop, metallurgy, building construction, wood­working . . . coach sports full or part time . . . direct a boys' club . . . help to run a summer camp . . . volunteer for foreign missions . . . act as guidance counsellor . . . serve in parishes . . . retreat houses ... orphanages. 
If you feel, as we do, that service to youth can be an important mission in your life, we welcome your interest The rewards are not material but you will find your Salesian apostolate rich and rewarding in service to others, especially the young and the poor. Walking in Christ's footsteps means peace of soul and an inner joy that comes from helping others in His name. 
To get more information about the Salesians and their work with youth, tear off and 
-
mail this postage free card..............~ 
Father Joseph, S.D.B. 

