Two students injured in auto accident 
during October break 
Students wait in line at the Dome to pick up ID's were taulty and many had to have long-awaited ID cards. However, several of the pictures retaken. [Photo by Janet Carney] 
their
I 
by Undy uecio Staff Reporter 
Two Notre Dame students were seriously injured over the October break when the parked car they were in was hit from the rear by another car whose driver apparent­ly fell asleep at the wheel. 
Stan Podlasek, a graduate stu­dent at Notre Dame, discovered the accident and the injuries of his two friends, Jane Hogan, a senior in Badin. and Bill Crooks. a graduate student living in Carroll Hall. · 
Podlasek found his injured friend when he came back to his car after going to get help for a breakdown. 
Podlasek's car broke down on Highway 94 going west to Chicago. Podlasek went to get help while Hogan and Crooks remained in the parked car. The car was then hit from the rear, injurying Hogan and Crooks. The two students were taken to Methodist Hospital in Gary. Ind. 
The accident occurred on Fri.. Oct., 22 in the late afternoon. Crooks was in a coma until Sunday and both students underwent sur· gery for facial injuries on Wednes· day. Hogan also broke several ribs and one of her lungs collapsl·d. 
Hogan's home is in Connl.'cticut and Crooks is from Nev.:.,.Jcr~e~: their parents arc with them mm in Gary. They arc expected to be ha<"k at school in about a week. although they will probably stay in the infirmary for a while. 
Darby O'Gill. Fr. Robert Grif· fin's cocker spaniel. was al-,o in the parked car and received minnr injuries. The driver of the other car suffered a broken nose. 




server 


an independl'lll '>ludenl newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XI, No. 36 Thursday, October 28, 1976 


Prospects for reform _ 
Council to review infirmary 
by Tom Byrne lease them," she said. "Secondly, support a working proposal con­
Senior Staff Roporter many cases are infectious, easily cerning medical cuts but we must 
A board consisting of six hall communicable to others. or to the sort through the Notre Dame 
presidents is currently examining patients are in such a weakened Administration to change the offic­
the prospects for procedural reform condition that they'd be susceptible ial policy.'' 
at the campus infirmary, partic­to other diseases." she explained. ''The Infirmary falls under the 
ularly in the areas of visitation Ruidl also commented that a control of Student Affairs." said 
policy and medical excuses from "considerable amount" of person­Ruidl. "We don't feel we have any
class. nel would be needed to regulate right to interfere with academic 
Created by the Hall Presidents visiting hours. "You would have to standards that have been set." She 
Council. HPC. at the request of give passes to check people in and added that policies used before 
Student Body President Mike out." she remarked. "We don't 1975 had become unmanageable.
Gassman, the Infirmary Advisory have a lot of staffing to police that 
Board issued its first report to the sort of thing." 
Women's medical services HPC at Tuesday night's meeting. "I didn't want to say absolutely 

The document noted the results of not," she continued, referring to 
the committee's initial meeting the conference with the board. "I The board also examined the 
with infirmary officials, and out­suggested that they might propose area of improved medical services 
lined several "practical goals." something to us, and we could at for women. Since their meeting 
''The meeting was more or less least take a look at it.· Maybe with the Infirmary Staff, it has 
to get acquainted with the infir­there's an angle we haven't looked been arranged for Dr. S.E. Bech­
mary,'' explained Lyons Hall Pres­at yet.'' told. a gynecologist recently retired 
ident Molly McGuire, one of the "Ifwe're going to have visitation from private practice, to join the 
board members. She indicated that hours then we're going to have to staff on a part-time basis. Ruidl 
the meeting allowed both the board compromise," said McGuire. The described the doctor as "very 
and the three infirmary officials, report of the board stated that the competent,'· and announced that 
University Physician Robert Thom­infirmary administrators "seemed he would be available on Tuesday 
pson. Infirmary Administrator Sr. willing to work on a compromise to mornings from 9 a.m. until noon. 
Marion Ruidl, and Charles Arans, allow limited visitation in non-con-"We'd like the students to make an 
director of Psychological Services, tagious cases.'' appointment,'· she said. 
to better understand each other's Ruidl acknowledged that com-The board in addition mentioned 
positions. promise was possible. "Maybe in its report the lack of adequate 
Among the goals listed in the there'd be an hour that could be transportation to the hospital and 
board's report was "to change the open," she said. "I'd feel open to off-campus medical facilities. 
visitation policy," since at the maybe to an experiment if the "You have to wait until security 
present time only rector and students could help us out." can find someone with a c::1r that's 
residents assistants are permitted Another point investigated by free," said McGuire. "Sometimes 
to visit patients in the Infirmary. the board was the policy toward you have to wait as long as an 
Ruidl cited two principle reasons medical c:~ts from class. As of the hour." The board plans to probe 
for the policy. fall of 1975, students cannot re-solutions to this problem in the 
"First, the students are here for ceive medical excuses unless they future. 
short term care because they can't are staying in the infirmary. The The report dealt also with the cope with the physical or mental committee's report disclosed that distribution of Darvon, a potent stress outside. Otherwise we re-the Infirmary Staff "is willing to drug frequently prescribed at the ~ lilllt lilllt ¥ W lilllt lilllt lilllt lilllt lilllt lilllt lilllt lilllt W W ¥ lilllt ...~ infirmary. According to the board,~T"'T"' T"'T"'T"'T"'T"'T"'T"'T"'T"'T"'T"' T"' ~ Dr. Thompson revealed that the 
• Absentee ballots ._ ~ dosage now available is approx­.J.t ..~ .J.t imately half the strength once ~ShOUld be COmpleted ,.~ used. The report also noted that 'l" "'1" Thompson described Darvon as .J.t and mailed today! ~ .J.t "not much stronger than aspirin." 'l" "'1" "The primary purpose of our .J.t .J.t whole committee is to make the 'l" Ballots "'1" students more aware of the Infir­~ . die mary," said McGuire, who sug­~ may be notarize ~ gested that most students have a Congressman Brademas denied allegations concerning illegal contributions last night in Grace Hall pit. [Photo by Janet Carney] 

Con. Brademas denies opponents charges 
by Katie Kerwin Tongsun Park. saying that he had Senior Staff Reporter received contributions from Park as a long-time casual friend. He Congressman John D. Brademas emphasized that the contributions denied charges that he knowingly had been reported dating from the accepted campaign contributions enactment of campaign disclosure from a South Korean CIA agent in a laws. ''They are all a matter of speech at Notre Dame last night. public record." he declared, and 
''This is the most malicious, fully legal and proper. scurrilous and dishonest charge Brademas also emphasized hi, I've ever encountered." Brademas record of opposition to the South told a crowd of about 30 in the Korean military dictatorship. Grace Hall pit. He is currently Brademas is chairman of the running for re-election to the sub-committee on Select Educa­House and has announced that he tion. a part of the Education and will run for House Majority Whip, Labor Committee. and a member of the third highest position in the the House Administration Com· House of Representative, if re-elec­mittee. He elaborated on some of ted . the bills he has sponsored or 
Brademas accused his opponent supported recently. in the race, Republican Thomas L. In education: Thorson, of making "wild and a higher education bill that reckless claims." He also blamed expanded as well as continued 
.J.t ~ ~ negative attitude toward the Infir-local media for "sloppy reporting federal financial assistance to stu­'l" free of charge in Office"" mary. of the matter." He said he has dents. Brademas said attempts are ~ iC Other members of the board are been informed that there will be a being made to get more aid for .J.t of International Students .J.t John O'Lear of Holy Cross, Jeanne complete retraction of the charges students from middle-income fam­'l" . "'1" Sculati of Badin, Anne Thompson against him. ilies, who have not been eligible~ and Student Affa~rs. « ofLewis, Rich Riley of Alumni, and Brademas explained his relation­previously. Basic Opportunity ship to South Korean businessman (continued on pag~ 31
....... V,..¥¥¥¥¥·········· Tracy Kee of Farley.
~ 

Thursday, October 28, 1976
the observer 

----News Briefs--­
~===========================Intemational 
Gunfire in India 
MUZAFFARNAGAR, India -Several Moslem leaders said today that at least SO persons and possibly as many as ISO were killed when police opened fire last week on villagers protesting the government's sterilization policy. 
Snipers increase 
BERIUT, Lebanon -Escalating sniper and mortar fire and feuding among Christian forces, Palestinians and the Syrians threatened vc~terdav to wreck the new cease-fire in Lebanon. Christians looked ~vith sus.pil"ion on the Syrians, their allies only a few d_ays ~go. Ho~pitab and militia officials reported a dozen persons ktlled tn a 24-hour period, twice as many as during the previous days of the truce. 
~==::::::::::::::=::::::::=::::::::=::::::::=::::::::========National 
Hearing on South Shore 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana officials have asked for a public hearing on the Chicago South Shore & South Bend Railroad's request to di~l·ontinue passenger services in four northwestern Indiana L·ountic~. William Watt. transportation aide to Gov. Otis R. Bowen, ~aid TuL·~dav that the railroad has filed a petition with the Interstate 
Conum-rcc Commission to abandon passenger service effective Dec. 
K. bccau~c it is losing $3 million a year. 


Buildup in planes 
' . ASHINGTON -Reacting to a Soviet airpower buildup. the Pentagon announced yesterday major increase in U.S. fighter plane strength in Western Europe including the first oversees deployment of the new supersonic F IS.This will be the first significant increase in U.S. airpower in Europe in about nine years. 

~-On Campus Toda~'---­
Ham-swine flu inoculation, available to all staff, faculty 4 pm and members of their immediate family over 18 ypars of age, stepan center. 
'lam orestes brownson conference, "brownson the man" with rev. thomas ryan, c.p.s., st. joseph college, rPnsselaer; william gilmore, stockton state college, pomona, n.J ; eleanor e. simpson, st. cloud state univ , mn , library lounge. 
12-ticket sales, for thP 235 homecoming packages, 
'j pm which include 2 g.a. nd vs. miami football tickets, doobie brothers concert tickets and homecoming dance tickets for $36, Iafortune rathskellar 
1 30 pm orestes brownson conference, ,"brownson and american society" with daniel r. barnes, ohio state univ., columbus; james m. mcdonnell, st. joseph's college, n. windham,me; patricia o'connell killen, stanford univ, ca, library lounge. 
3pm executive lecture series, "view from the bull's eye. the multinational corporation in the mid-seventies" by dr. james g. affleck, chairman of the board and president of american cyanmid co., sponsored by graduate business dept., room 122, hayes-healy center. 
4 pm seminar, "rate constants and cidep of transient radicals by modulation esr spectroscopy" by dr. henning paul, n d., sponsored by radiation labora­tory, conference room, radiation research bldg. 
4:30 prn lecture, "puritanism and the american revolution" by dr. sacvan bercovitch, columbia univ., n.y., sponsored by the english department, cce lower lounge. 
4 30 prn memorial service, orestes brownson memorial service, with liturgy arranged by william storey, n.d. and remarks by thomas schlereth, n.d., crypt, sacred heart church. 
b.IO pm meeting, n .d. college repubi icans with speaker jack ellis, st. joe county republican county chairman, library a11d. 
h 30 pm banquet, united way banquet, st. mary's dining hall 
8 pm concert, "an evening of george gershwin", spon­sored by the music dept , stapleton lounge. 
8 pm orestes brownson conference, "brownson and american catholicism" with joseph f. gower, st. joseph's college, phi ladeIph ia; rev. richard lei iaert, 
o.s c., catholic theological union, chicago, library aud. 
8 pm perspective lectures, "the role of scientific prog­ress" by prof. nicholas rescher, galvin aud 
9 pm film, "hunchback of notre ·dame", sponsored by lemans hall, little theatre, moreau hall, smc. 
9 pm pumpkin carving contest, sponsored by stanford hall, north quad. 
12 am 

rich spellman plays stevie wonder's spngs on the 
"key of life" album on the album hour, wsnd, 640 
am. 





McCarthy to challenge laws as election draws near 
PITTSBURGH, Pa. (AP) -Eugene state laws were unconstitutional McCarthy said Wednesday he'll and have gotten some correction. challenge the constitutionality of "There are about 10 other states the federal election law because he where we think the laws are says it strengthens a monopoly the unconstitutional and in about five major parties have on American or six of them we haven't been able politics. to get on the ballot and that could 
McCarthy. the former Minnesota very well determine how the elec­senator who is running for presi­tion goes." dent as an independant in more McCarthy is still fighting to hold than 30 states, told reporters he on to a slot on the New York State would file a court challenge to the ballot. federal act after next week's elec­The Court of Appeals, the state's tion. highest court, is to rule on whether 
He also said he would pursue the former senator can appe~r on challenges in several of those the ballot there, a move opposed states where he has been kept off by the state's Democratic leader­the ballot. ship. 
"This is probably the first uncon­McCarthy's visit was the start of stitutional presidential election in a two-day swing through Pennsyl­this century," McCarthy said. "In vania, where 27 electoral votes are 
eight states we established that the at stake. President Ford cam-
Gurney finally cleared on campaign pergury charge 
ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) -Former Sen. Edward J. Gurney, his name cleared after a long legal battle, blames his ordeal on "vindicative people from the government." 
''They destroyed a United States senator, blackened my name, be­smirched my character, and ruined me economically," Gurney said Wednesday after a jury found him innocent of perjury. 
Gurney, 62, was accused of lying to a 197 4 Jacksonville grand jury about a major political fund-raising operation. He had been acquitted of five bribery, conspiracy and perjury charges at a trial in Tampa last year. but the government ordered him retried on OJJe perjury charge on which the jury reached no verdict. 
"We've beaten these mean, vicious and vindictive people from the government,'' said the former Republican senator, who retired be..~ use of the scandal. 
Th grand jury had charged that Gu·ncy "deliberately and willfully lied" when he said he didn't know that his onetime fund raiser, Larry Williams of Orlando, had collected more than $400,000 in illegal contributions. Williams got the money from Florida builders in exchange for promises of favors from Florida offices of the Federal Housing Administration. 
The only issue before the jury here when it began deliberations was whether Gurney knew before mid-1973 that Williams used part of his illegal collections to pay Gurney's field-office and staff ex-

r*The Observerl 
Night Editor: Marti Hogan Asst. Night Editors: Paul Schappler, Giacomo D'Aurora layout Staff: Roseanne Wal­lace, Steve Odland, Barry Tillis, Sara McDonald,. Jackie Flicker, Debbie Dahrling Editorial layout: Pat Hanifan Features layout: Chris Smith Sports layout: Paul Steven­son, Greg Solman Typists: Gwen Coleman, Susan Shellenburger, Debbie Dahrling, Stephanie Urillo Early Morning Typist: Morey Blinder Day Editor: Mary Mungovan Copy Reader: Barb Langhenry (But doesn't she remind you of Mary Tyler Moore?) 
l,HAPPY HAllOWEEN 
J 
.. 
The Ob~erver 1~ publ1shPd Monday through Fnddy and wet'kly dunng th<' summer st'<;Sion, <'X< ept dunng thP exam and vacation pPnodo; The ObsPrvPr 1s published by studPnts of the Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame and St Mary's Coll<'ge Subsrnptions may be purchased for $20 pl'r yPar ($10 ppr semester) from The Obser­ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press All reproduction nght<; are reserved 

penses. 
Gurney, a World War II hero who served three terms as a congressman before his 1968 elec­tion to the Senate, gained national prominence as the tough-question­ing defender of then-President Richard M. Nixon during the televised Senate Watergate hear­ings in 1973. 
Asked whether he thought this had anything to do with the government's prosecution, Gurney said, "I can only conjecture about Watergate..! expect it probably did. But I don't know." 
Justice Department lawyer Ed­ward Barnes, the ninth federal prosecutor assigned to the case over three years, had no comment. 
Williams testified for the govern­ment in return for a plea-bargained prison sentence of five months. Others serving prison terms in connection with the case were James Groot, once Gurney's administrative assistant; FHA Di­rector William Pelski of Coral Gables; and building contractor John Priestes of Miami. 
paigned here Tvesday and Demo­cratic candidate Jimmy Carter's schedule called for a visit to Pittsburgh Wednesday evening. 
McCarthy, who sought the Democratic presidential nomina­tion in 1968, said he is not in the race as a "spoiler" to take votes from Carter. He said his candidacy is a vote of protest against the election system and Carter and . Ford not addressing the issues. 
McCarthy declined to estimate the percentage of the vote he would get. 
Shafer named 
director of 

law clinic 

Dr. Thomas L. Shaffer, professor and former dean of th~ Law School at Notre Dame, has been named director of the Law Teaching Clinic of the Association ofAmerican Law Schools. The appointment was announced by the AALS president, Francis A. Allen of the University of Michigan. 
Shaffer, who has served national law associations in a variety of capacities, will direct curriculum planning activities and other ad­ministrative procedures in the new assigment. · 
FAST 
TYPEWRITER REPAIR 

f:!:I:W.! 
2915 Mishawaka Ave. 

ND Students 

BRING THIS COUPON TO 
BELLE PLAZA PARTY STORE FOR CASE DIS­
COUNTS ON COLD BEER & WINE. Jrd STOPLIGHT NORTH OF STATELINE ON U.S. 31. 

COLLEGE GRADUATES 
DON'T TAKE CHANCES WITH YOUR PARALEGAL CAREER­NOT ALL LAWYER'S ASSISTANT PROGRAMS ARE THE SAME 
Roosevelt University's Lawyer's Assistant rep­
resents the mark of quality and acceptance in 
today's legal community. 
If you are a college graduate and qualify, why not give yourself an advantage by attending Roosevelt Univer­sitY's Lawyer's Assistant Program which is fully ac­credited by the American Bar Association. 
Since the Fall of 1974, 365 graduates representing over 120 colleges and universities have chosen Roose­velt's Lawyer's Assistant Program for their career training. 
Specialize in: CorporatiOns -Estates, Trusts and Wills -Litigation -Real Estate and Mortgages -or be­come a Generalist*. 
Over 160 law firms, banks, corporations and govern· mental agencies throughout the United States have hired Roosevelt graduates. 
SESSIONS 0 Spring Day/February 14-May 6, 1977 0 Summer Day'June 13-September 2, 1977 0 Spring Evening ·March 15-August 26, 1977 
*evening program only. 
A representative from Roosevelt University Lawyer's Assistant Program will be on campus on November 1, 1976 at the placement office. 
For more information contact your placement office or Lawyer's Assistant Program at Roosevelt University. 
----------SEND TODAY ---------­
Lawyer's Assistant Program ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY (312) 341·3882 430 South Michigan Avenue -~
•

Chicago, Illinois 60605 
Please send me information on Roosevelt's Regional Program. 
D Spring Day Program iJ Summer Day ProgramD Spring Evening Program 
Name---· 
Address. 
City State_ Zip_ _ __ _ 
Roosevelt University admits students on the basis of indi­vidual merit and without regard to race, color, creed, or sex. 
-~ ·-~-··--------------­
------------~------------------------------------­

John Roose outlines shortcomings of present political cam­paigns. [Photo by Janet Carney] 





Free University program looking for more teachers 
by Alicia Denefe Staff Reporter 

The "Free University," a program offering no grade, no credit mini­courses next semester, is looking for people who have anything of interest to offer, stated Special Projects Commissioner Charlie Moran. Teacher application forms can be picked up at the Student Union office and are due by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Presently there are 26 courses that will be offered. Among those are basic photography, man­woman interactions, real estate, TV repair, personal decision making, the art of bartending and Irish dancing. 
A catalogue will be released Nov. 

12-15 explaining course times and 
descriptions. The 5000 copies will 
be distributed to both Notre Dame 
and St. Mary's campuses and "will 
be available to anyone," said 
Moran. 
The Friday deadline for teacher 

sign-up is necessary, explained 
Moran, the booklet must be organ­
ized and deliver to the press on 
Monday. This will assure the 
November publication date. 
Registration for the mini-courses 

will be held Nov .. 18-19, one week 
after the formal university regi­
stration. lhis will enable students to know their class schedules and avoid conflicts, Moran stated. 
The courses will begin on Jan. 24, and "it will be up to the teachers and students together to decide exactly how long and when they will meet," said Moran. 
''The teacher is free to limit the size of the classes," Moran ex­plained. Classes that are limited in size, such as seminar classes, will be run on a first-come, first-serve basis. Moran urges students to look through the selection booklet as soon as it comes out so they can be prepared to sign up when registra­tion begins. 
Moran suggests that anyone interested in teaching a mini­course should call or go to Student Union and talk over their ideas with him. "We are still looking for someone to teach more sessions on automotive repair." said Moran. Currently there is only one session and it will probably be limited to ten people. This will undoubtedly be a popular course. said Moran. 
Moran would also like to see a course offered in basic grammar and punctuation. "There is a major problem across the country of students not being able to write with correct simple grammar and punctuation," he said, "and I think many people would be interested in learning simple writing habits." 

Brademas speaks in Grace 
!continued from page II Grants have been increased anu Guaranteed Student Loans liberal­ized by raising the maximum annual income for eligibility to $25,000 from $15,000. , Education for All Handicapped Children Act, which provides fed­eral funds needed by states to provide adequate education for all handicapped children. 
, A 1976 extension of the Vocation Education Act for the training of handicapped adults. ,Older Citizens Services Act to provide services to older citizens, which includes a hot meal program, legal services, renovations on homes of elderly citizens and a program to prohibit age discrimin­ation. , The National Institute of Edu­cation for educational research. , Arts, Humanities and Cultural Affairs Act of 1976, which contin­ues National Arts and Humanities Endowments. It also begins new programs, such as the Challenge Grant, whereby the federal govern­
. ment will put up one dollar for every three dollars raised locally to provide help to cultural institutions in great need. Another new plan, called the Museum Services Insti­tue, would provide operating funds to U.S. museums. , Arts and Artifacts Indemnity Act, designed to make good art exhibits possible for all U.S. museums, by providing federal indemnification. 
Thursday, October 28, 1976 the observer 
3 


Four campus political experts dis.~.!..~J§.~. pr~~.i.!!!.r:!"!~!I..~an~,i~~~.!~,,"
Staff Reporter 
Four political experts got together 
last  night  at  Howard  Hall  and  
discussed  the  biggest  three-ring  
circus  in  town  -­ the  American  
political scene.  

Just six days before the election. Fr. William A. Toohey, director of Campus ministry; John Roos, asso­ciate professor of Urban Studies; Walter J _ Nicgorski, associate professor of General Program and Edward Goerner, professor of Government and Internation-al Affairs. lead an election sympo­sium that resulted in many views sponsored by the Howard Hall Academic Culture Commission. 
"We cannot blame the candi­dates for not sticking to the issues," said Roos. '"If they really did run on issues that were real­saying that hard times were on the way-people would look at each other and say. 'who is this guy?' " 
According to Roos, there are a couple of serious problems that the two presidential candidates are not facing. "Number one would be inflation. Sixty percent of inflation has come from three sources: captial, energy and agriculture. Things that have rised dramatically lately. It is possible that this is going to be a permanent increase. One that will not be cut by monetary policy and a politician. The fact is that we may have to face a permanent decrease in our real income. Thisis not a pleasant thing. but we are going to have to live with this." 
The cities are one of the other problems that neither of the candi­dates are addressing. "Everytime someone builds a suburban home, a white middle-class family is going to move out of the city. Neighbor­hoods which are being vacated· are becoming unstable. This is the 

there is no relief in sight. The 
candidates aren't saying anything 
about it," said Roos. 
Society did not always take an 
issue-oriented slarit towards their 
political figures. "For the Greeks, 
the character of the man was the 
political criteria. The politicians at 
the time did not have a magical ball 
and could not tell what was coming 
up in advance: 
'"ln a world of no TV or mass communication. a candidate is not known by a distant image. You are known by your reputation." Roos 1concluded, "In modern time, TV is not good to show how much character a politician has. Because of this. most of them result in 
toothpaste ads.-:.· 
"The illusion of benefits without 
costs prevails in our politics. Can-
dictates should tell the public the 
cost of their dreams. Nicgorski 
stated. '"We have to look for 
intelligent and realistic visions." 
he said. 

'"In the third debate. both candi· 
dates were asked that since they 
were promising that everybody is 
to get something. who will pay for 
it all? Both of them were shaken." 
said Nicgorski. "They never 
thought they would be asked that 
question. They had little prepared 
speeches that they would recite no 
matter what the question was." 
the moral tone the government has taken recently. "With the form that tax-relief has taken. the govern· ment is encouraging a wife to work on the side and take her children to child care centers. This is not just for the poor and the needy. they 

sav  it  is for even·bodv.  Thev  arc  
attacking  the  in~titutions  of  the  
family."  

"Laws can change moral stan­dards. ··said Nicgorski. ""When the Supreme Court first changed the abortion law~. most peopk in middle America were again~t ahor­tion. But three \car~ later. pcopk are starting to anTpt it. We arc at the tipper point in thi~ issue. tine political action could put the Ia'' on the right side of this i~~ue _.. 
"If w~ made this a 'ita! iswc. there would still he a change ·that America could ~tand on solid mural grounds... he continued. "Hut the vote of six Supreme Court justices 
lwnlinu~d un pagl' 'II 
HELP! Law Review article in final drafting stage reported missing from South Dining Hall. Contained in black portfolio. Contact LAW­YER office -7097. 

·SENIOR TRIP GOERS CHECK THE LISTS IN LAFORTUNE LOBBY & RM 168 LE MANS ON THURS· OCT· 29 
FOR YOUR ROOMMATE SITUATIONS 
-,C: WHATS BREWING AT SENIOR BAR? ;;t 
FRIDAY NIGHT

Thursday tin• f,'ntertainmt•nt  HALLOWEEN PARTY  
rt>t11 rn  e llf.!llf.!t'lll e11 1  Om• f'rt•t•  /Jri11 h or llt•t•r  
(;rt'f.! llmu/oli11i  to 1111 HIIH'  ;, t•milumt•  
(~"  tin• Jlu."it·  
/)(u·e SlraiH•t•ll  & Ht•t•r (.'oullttlornt  

.. 
.. 
. 
' 

A walking billboard announces the coming of the Beaux Arts Ball. [Photo by joseph Burns] 

UA W may go on strike 
DETROIT (AP) -About 118,000 United Auto Workers in 22 states and Canada will strike Chrysler Corp. on Nov. 5 if agreement on a new contract is not reached by then, the union said Wednesday. 
In announcing selection of the No. 3 automaker as its next bargaining target. union officials expressed hope a second industry strike could be averted. 
"I don't believe Chrysler wants a strike, and we don't want to strike, but there's always a possibility that a strike, nevertheless, wll occur," said UAW vice president Douglas Fraser. 
Chrysler's top bargainer, Vice President William M. O'Brien, said in a prepared statement the firm is confident of reaching "a fair and equitable new 'agreement... with­out a work stoppage." ­
Meanwhile, General Motors said Wednesday it had a record-shatter­ing performance in the third quar­ter with net profits of $397 million on $10.2 billion in sales. 
Profits were up 63 percent from a year ago and topped the PFevious third-quarter record of $267 million set in 1973, the firm said. 
Chrysler already has reported record third-quarter profits of $76.2 million, compared with a record $79 million loss a year ago. 
The UAW struck its princioal bargaining target, Ford Motor Co .. on Sept. 14. The two sides reached tentative settlement on a new industry pattern-setting accord 28 days later. 
However, unresolved disputes over local working agreements that supplement the national pact kept many Ford operations strikebound until this week and two Ford jlSsembly plants still are closed. 
Officials at General Motors and Chrysler have said they would 
. accept the key provisions in the Ford contract, which include an additional seven paid days off by 1979, annual wage hikes exceeding 3 percent a year, continuation of cost-of living pay adjustments, improved layoff and health care benefits, and special cash pay­·ments for retirees. 
The UAW, negotiating three year agreements for 700,000 auto workers, ahd extended old con­tracts at tl: ~ other companies until Ford was close to full recovery. 
UAW President Leonard Wood cock said a deadline would not be set at GM, where the union represents 390,000 workers, until after Nov. 5 . 
Woodcock also said bargaining with American Motors, the small­est of the automakers, resumed Monday in Milwaukee. Talks with AMC, which has 13,000 UAW -rep­resented workers, are not expected to intensify until pacts with the other companies are settled. 
BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. (AP) ­Can a famous comedienne get laughs with a routine about having her leg amputated and spending seven months in a hospital bed? Yes. if she's Totie Fields. 
The 47-year-old performer met the press Wednesday, her first public appearance since a circula­torv problem complicated by phle­bitis forced removal of her left leg 
last spri:1g, 

"Honey. if you're not funny with two legs. you're not going to be funny with one." Miss Fields said when asked whether the amputa­tion would affect her act. "I have the same tongue and brain. I haven't lost my sense of humor." 
And she proceeded to prove it. 
"The minute I put the rings back on. I knew I was well," she said, !lashing a handful of diamonds. "I don't care if I lost a leg. I've got my fingers.·' 
Miss Fields revealed that she had once tipped the scales at 191 pounds but said she now weighs 117. 
"I've never said this before, no one in the world knew how much I weighed, not even Georgie her husband, George Johnston...This is the first time in my life I weigh 
less than my husband.'· 

During her ordeal, Miss Fields 
said, there were "times, several times. when they thought I was gone." But she said she believed "there's a reason. l..,d2.1,1't think God works in any other way...and my life will probably be happier than ever. 
"Oh, it's so good to be here, so good to smile. Oh God, how badly I wanted to live," she said. 
A few of Miss Field's friends-­
I 
j 

comedian Jan Murray and perform-f. ers Florence Henderson and Berti Convy--surprised the comedienne with a huge cake and a few kisses. 
She said letters from her fans--, "we stopped counting at half a' million"--kept her spirits up during the long months she spent on her 
back. 





Scientists to produce gene 
SAN FRANCISCO -Scientists ex­perimenting with genes have "or­dered" a tiny cell to produce an enzyme a discovery they say may lead to new, less expensive sources of insulin and other drugs. 
In an interview before publica­tion today of the findings in the journal Nature, Dr. Herbert Boyer said scientists may soon be able to reconstruct genes that will turn cells into "factories" for the pro­duction of biological substances. 
"We've gone out of the area of basic science," Boyer said, "into the area of practical application." 
Through such genetic engineer­ing, he said, cells could be ordered to produce drugs like insulin, essential to the survival of about a third of the nation's 10 million diabetics. 
Boyer, who directed the research at the University ofCaiifornia-San Francisco, said such production might be only five years away. 
The genetic engineering is based on the technique involving re­combinant DNA," research report­ed in 1974 and for which the University of California and Stan­ford University have together ap­plied for a patent on the commer­cial use of the technique, the universities announced. 
Boyer's work in reconstructing parts of parts for DNA, the basic chemical unit of heredity, "paral­lel" the break-through announced last August by Har Gobing Khur­ana and others at the Massachu­setts Institute of Technology, the University of California said. 
The Khorana group succeeded in linking complex chains of DNA to duplicate the actual gene of a simple bacterium, E. coli, which lives in the human intestine. When this manmade gene was then inserted into the cell, it functioned like its real-life model. 
Boyer explained his group had 

Students needed to deliver paper 
The Observer is looking for stu­
dents interested in delivering the 
paper to the Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's campuses. The job takes 
between two and two-and-a-half 
hours during the lunch hours. and 
pays five dollars per day. Students 
are needed for Thursday every 
week. and Monday. Wednesda.y 
and Friday every other week. 
Anvone interested should not 
have classes between 10:30 a.m. 
and 2 p.m. on the days on which 
they would like to work. For 
inf~rmation, call 283-8661 or 288­

841 7 and ask for either Dan ._."11~"'-~""-.-A.,.._~.,_-~~~~-...'\IIII-...,PII\•--"11,_• 
Sanchez or Chris Smith. If neither is present. leave a message. 


Comediane doesn't find herself limited by physical handicap 
start learning to walk on a1 artificial leg. first with paralle bars, then with crutches, then wiH a can, "and then, on stage." She plans to return to the nightclul stage next April in Las Vegas. 
.,.._________




arm· 
Barber & Hair 
a 
Style Shop . Open six days a . 
week 
Sat 8 to 3:00 
1437 N. Ironwood South Bend . . -
0 

Appointment only1 . ' 
277-0615 
s 
,. Close to Campus · .·

Miss Fields said she will soon!...,________...__..., 
synthesized a section of DNA that orders the genes of E. coli to produce an enzyme used.for di­gesting milk. Normally the enzyme is produced only when the cell needs it. 
"Normally there's a protein molecule that sits on top of this genetic segment and keeps it from working," Boyer explianed. Such molecules, called "repressors," are important clues to understand­ing what turns a gene on and off. 
When the manmade DNA was inserted into the cell, Boyer said, it grabbed the repressor molecule away from the cell's own DNA, which then began to order the gene· to produce the enzyme. 
Scientists think repressor mol­ecules 'ire part of the reason one gene in a human fetus will direct cells to form into a hand and another, perfectly identical gene, will order the development of a nose. 
Boyer said the biggest stumbling block in making genetics work for man in producing insulin and other drugs is the laborious synthesizing of DNA segments and genes that are more complicated than those used in the UCSF and MIT re­search. 
''Putting it into the cell is a snap," he said, "We have the technology for that. DNA synthesis is still very expensive and time consuming." 
Other UCSF bi0chemists in the project are Drs. Howard M. Good· man, Heh Council of Canada, anc Drs. Keeichi ltakura, Syr-yaun~ Lin and Arthur D. Riggs of the Cit) of Hope National Medical Center Duarte. California. 
Right now, up until Oct. 31st, you can fly r01mdtl'ip from 
New York to Luxembourg for only $:360. 
That's $106less than the youth fare you'd pay on anyother scheduled airline. (From Chicago you pay $401 and save $II:t) All you have to do is he under the age of ~4. 
There are no booking restl'ictions. And no skimping or, meals or service. Because we give you the same servic~ you'd get from other airlines, without the same high costs. So, if you're planning on Europe, fly with us on Icelandic. We'll give you more than the lowest youth fares. 
We'll give you the best deal. See your travel agent or wnte to IcelandiC Airlines Dept. • CN. 630 F11th Avenue, NY. NY 10020. Or call toll free: (BOO) 555-1212. Fares subjectto change. 
Savesto6 on jet fares 
to Europe and book 
anytimeyouwant. 

Icelandic
LOWESTJET ..'ARES TO El'ROP ..; 0 ..',\\Y SCHEDI'LED :\IRLI\E. 
Interested in teaching other students abou your favorite interest, hobby, etc? Call th FREE UNIVERSITY 283-7757 Complete freedom on course content, length and class size. Virtually any topic acceptance instuctor sign-up deadline: tomorrow, Oct. 29 


Pizza King 
We invite you to try our delicious 
pizza, hot sandwiches and tasty salads. BEER Special Monday nights. 
Pitchers of Budweiser $1.50 Michelob $1.75 Tues. nite after 4pm--$1.00 off 
on all large pizzas. 
130 Dixyway North 272·6017 
-~------~----------~-~---~ 
Vitamin C no help to colds 
BOSTON AP--Researchers who said two years ago Vitamin C might relieve the common cold now conclude the drug does not signifi­cantly easc_symptoms of the snif­fles. 
The team of doctors. among the first to confirm the relieving pow­ers of the vitamin. say now their earlier assertions were wrong. 
"We do not believe·that Vitamin C has widespread usefulness as a cold remedy." the doctors conclud­ed. 
The new study was directed by Dr. John F. Co).llehan at the 
University of Pittsburgh Medical 
School. It is reported in an issue  of  
the  New  England  Journal  of  
Medicine for publication today.  

The virtues of Vitamin C have been debated since Nobel laureate Linus Pauling said in 1970 people who took the drug in large daily doses would have fewer colds. He also said the colds~ they did get would be less severe. 
To test that theory, Coulehan and his associates experimented with students at a Navajo boarding school in Arizona. They concluded in 1974 that students who took the 
Various services performed by campus Lost and Found 
by Kate Smelser Staff Reporter 

Room i09 in the Administration Building houses the Notre Dame Central Lost and Found Depart­ment where June Urbanski and student coordinators Paul McDon­nell and Bob Ellis oversee the recovery and return of student's misplaced possessions. The de­partment also supervises bicycle registration and Hall MARC pro­grams. Office hours are from 8 am to 8 pm. Monday through Friday. 
To reclaim lost property. a student must go to the office and fill out a form identifying the missing item. According to Mc­Donnell, it is a simple process. but few owners bother to take the time. 
''Even after we contact the owners, they don't come and pick their stuff up. They just don't care.'· McDonnell said. Articles are kept until the end of the school year. sometimes longer. and if they remain unclaimed the department donates them to charity. 
Ellis spoke Tuesday evening before the Hall President's Council to detail the department's efforts in bicycle registration and the Hall 
program. To register a student's bicycle the department enters its serial 

Defendants plead not guilty to kidnap rap 
MADERA. Calif. AP -Three men accused of kidnapping a busload of Chowchilla school children pleaded innocent Wednesday. 
Each pleaded innocent through his attorney to 27 counts of kidnapping the youngsters and their bus driver and 18 counts of 
robbery involving· personal  items  
taken from the victims.  
The  defendants--Frederick  N.  

Woods. 24. of Woodside; James Schoenfeld. 24. and his brother. Richard. 22. both of Atherton--told the court that the innocent ·pleas entered for them were correct. 
The day-long hearing in Superior Court was on a defense request to move the trial to a metropolitan area. 
The defense request was opposed bv Madera Countv Cistrict Attor­n~y David Minier·who said in an interview._ "they can get a fair trial here." 
Judge Jack L. Hammerberg is not expected to reach a decision on the issue of the trial site until early November because Herbert Yano­witz. counsel for Woods. wants experts to testify later about the impact of massive publicity on potential jurors in a small county such as Madera. 
On July IS, 26 summer school students and bus driver Ed Ray were abducted on their way home from summer school. ­
They were driven around in two vans for several hours. then were herded into a moving van buried at a rock quarry. They dug their way out after 27 hours in captivity and 16 hours in the moving van. 
number into a nation-wide "com­puter guard" system through which a recovered· bicycle can be traced in minutes. 
To aid in the return of other lost property the Hall MARC system provides an alternative method of permanent identification. In ex­change for a $6 deposit the department offers diamond-tipped pens to mark merchandise with the owner's social security number and 
home state.  ·  
According  to  McDonnell,  "It  
lends  a  little  peace  of  mind  

knowing that you have another safeguard on your prized posses­sions and that potential thieves might hesitate a little before taking the marked goods." 
Vitamin Chad milder colds. "Our study got a lot of publicity and was used to argue that Vitamin C was beneficial." Coulehan said in an interview. "because of this. we went into a second study that was longer and more controlled.·· 
The second time. the doctors said thev watched the health of 868 Navajo -children at schools in Stcamboat.and Lower Greasewood. Arizona. Half took Vitamin C and the rest got fake pills. Over five months. the number and length of colds were almost identical be­tween the two groups. the doctors said. 
"Our important finding was negative." Coulehan said. "We were unable to demonstrate signif­icant benefits of Vitamin C." 
Coulehan noted some other re­searchers arc still reporting mild benefits to cold victims from Vita­min C. 
Coulehan noted some other re­searchers are still reporting mild benefits to cold victims from Vita­min C. He said Scientists theorize that i.n some cases the vitamin has an effect on the body similar to an antihistamine. 
But he said that even if Vitamin C does help dry up runny noses, this is not enough reason to take large quantities of the drug. 
"I don't think there is any evidence to recommend Vitamin C in large doses when a person has a cold," Coulehan said. "There are other antihistamines available." 

St. Mary's receives grant from Grahm Foundation 
by Eileen Lynch Staff Reporter 

The Graham Foundation for the Advanced Studies of Fine Arts granted $25,000 to the St. Mary's Department of Art. 
The Department was notified of the grant in September. The grant was awarded for the purpose of further development in graphics, sculpture, and three-dimensional 
design.  ·  
The money  has  already  been  
used  to  develop  an  almost  com­ 

pleted graphics complex located in 
room 144 in Moreau Hall. "The department has designed a completely new complex and through the maintenance depart­ment, we have installed new sinks­with stainless steel basins, new tables and equipment for cutting plates and an exhaust system. It should be fully completed and in operation by Nov. I. We hope the students find it a fine sophisticated graphics department, " stated James Paradis. coordinator of the Art Department. 
Paradis attributed the acquistion of the grant to the continued efforts of Dr. John Duggan. St. Mary's president. "We were very grateful to have received this grant and hope to use it in the best possible ways." he stated. 
Plans for a new sculpture area were also drawn up by the depart­ment and have been submitted to the administration for approval. The Art Department hopes to expand the ceramics area and have already expanded equipment used in making jewelry, although money from the grant has not been used for that purpose as yet. 


*The 
•



Observer 
The Observer is looking for people to deliver the pa­per on Thursdays, and every other week on Mon., Wed. and Fri. Call 8661 if interes­ted. 


marvel students. Iphoto by tony Chifari I 
Student Union to present array of diverse speakers 
by Peggy Schumaker Staff Reporter 
The Student Union Academic Commission has announced the speakers whom they will sponsor this semester. 
The '>peakers include James Balkom. a Ku Klux Klan fighter; William Geraway. who will speak on crime and punishment; George Plimpton. sports author and cel­ebrity and Dr. Benjamin Spock. author and authority on child care. 
Academic Commission chairper­son Jerry Hoffman said, "As part of this commission's function our ideal is to offer a program of speakers from diversified fields of interest. Our specific goal for this year is to encourage student a­wareness and interest in these offerings.·· 
The commission distributect 
1.000 random SUf\l'Y~ in earlv October. which included questions concerning students· past atten­dance at speaches and future preferences for speakers. in order to locate student's interests. Hoff­man stated that students who still have survevs should return them. 
Next sen1ester a two day forum with news correspondents from the three major television networks is planned. The Amazing Kreskin will also return to campus in March. Otl•tr tentative spleakers are Ralph Nader. Congressman Ronald Del­lums. William Buckley. Richard Dalev and Art Linkletter. 

The Academic Commission is located with the Student Union offices o.n the second floor of LaFortune and is open to sugges­tions from all students. Hoffman stated. 
The White House Inn 
Tonight Pitcher Beer Nite 

~~with STARTROOPER: 2839 No. 51th St., Niles•. Take U.S. 31 to Niles, 

. '.'THE FRONT" 
...-~-------------­


~*The Observer 
anindependentstudentnewspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notn· [),mH· and St. Mary's College It does not necessarily rdiP< t tfw policies of either institution. The news is reported ,1~ <1« ur<I!Piy and a~ obwctively as possible Editorials n·prl'~t·nt tfw opin1on of a majority of the Editorial B,oard Cmnnwn!MII'~. opinion~ and letters are the views of their dulhor~ Column spaet" is available to all members of the < ollllllLJill!y, .1nd letters are encouraged to promote the free t>xpn·~~lon ot Vdrymg opinions on campus 
13u~llw~~ Manager Tom Fronuak Advt>rt1~ing Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor Tony Chifan Production Manager Martha L. Fannmg 
Thursday, October 28, 1976 
~ 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Phones: (219) 283-8661 (NO] (219) 284-5365 [SMC] 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief Dan Sanche1 Managing Editor Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed. 
Cregg Bangs Executive Editor Val Zurblis Executive Editor Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor Bob Mader Exec News Editor 
Maureen Flynn Campus Editor Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor Don Reimer Copy Editor Tim O'Reiley Features Editor Fred Herbst Sports Editor 


'A'KE You REALLY ~RE YOU WANT TO GfJ 1Nr0·1111S?" 
singalong junk!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Good, Plain Jerry 
iiiiiiuinieiiinioittieiciaibileiiidiitti•ierieinicieiiibici-iiiiiiteiriHioirisit,iiihieici·a·n···tiaittioiriditioiiidieiailiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii ioe g;II 
tween the two presidential pack­ages presented for public scrutiny in 1976 lies within the packages themselves. With Gerald Ford, you know what's inside; with Jimmy Carter. you don't, 
Gerald Ford is a strong con­servative. a man who is offering the American people the prospect of a slow but steady economic rel·overy. He is a quiet and unassuming man. and a quiet and unassuming President. There is nothing really very exciting or charismatic about him, but he posscsscs a quiet simplil'ity that is reassuring in troubled times. His honesty and integrity are unquestionable. 
His primary concern is the economy; specifically. inflation. At the beginning of hi:> Presi­dency two years ago. he vowed to veto any expensive new programs except in the energy field. He has kept this VO\\ exactly 59 times. much to the anger and ch:igrin of a Demonatic spending Congress. He urges thi~ Congress to adopt hb "new realism." a policy that entails a reduction in government spending and strict controls on the federal budget. 
Ford·~ economil· programs re-fleet the con~ervative nature of this "new realism." His first question conl-erning any new bill prc!>ented to him by Congress or hi!> advisor!>. according to his former pre~!> !>l'l'fetary Jerald F. terHorst is "Where is the money coming from'?" He doesn't ask if the propo~al is necessary or how itl·an be done. He asks "Where is the money coming from?" If the n,wney isn't available, says with the proposal. 
How has it worked? Ford claims that his vetos have saved $9 billion in spending. He claims to have cut the federal payroll to the tune of 11.000 jobs. He professes a genuine concern for the middle American; two weeks ago. he signed a 1500-page tax reform bill. saying ''I'm absolute­ty convinced that we have to get a greater degree of equity and fairness in the middle-income taxpayer category." An increase in the $750 personal exemption, said Ford. would be "the best tax reform we can give the American people." 
Ford's critics charge that there has not been a noticeable reduc­tion in unemployment, and that Ford has shown a tendency to accept suffering in this area rather than give in to the de­mands of inflation. The fact is, though. that this attitude works rather well. both in the business world and in public-opinion polls. which regularly uncover more fear of inflation than unemploy­ment. And even Ford's critics concede that he has kept the lid on inflation. 
What could the American public reasonably expect from four more years of Jerry Ford? According to one senior staff member. there would be "four more years of quiet and consoli­dation." Two weeks ago, News­week magazine opined that "His attention, as in the past, will focus on economic matters; his solutions will conform to budget­ary restraints." He would most assuredly veto expensive econ­omic legislation in accordance 
P. 0. BoxQ
I . 
Still Mr. Nice Guy 

Dear Editor: As I read the article "No More of Mr. Nice Guy", in Tuesday's Observer. I became very disturb­ed at the slash Mr. Kane made against President Ford. After I 
thought about Mr. Kane's allega­tions, my disturbance diminish­ed. I suddenly realized how ill-informed and immature the writer of the letter was. 
Mr. Kane expressed his "sad­ness" that the majority of the students leaned towards Ford. Why? Because it didn't happen to agree with his choice? Many of the events described by Mr. Kane that tran~pired in the last 8 years with the policy of "new realism" and with the hope of a slow and steady progress. 
Four more years of Gerald Ford would be an unspectacular four years; for those who long for liberal preograms reflecting the Keynesian pump-priming of the 1960's. then Gerald Ford will be a disappointment--he just will not spend the money. What he will do is continue on ·the path he has already laid down--one that is conservative and fiscally strin­gent. Newsweek observed that even Ford's own people "sti­pulate that there is nothing very exciting or inspiring about Just Plain Jerry Ford; they offer only that his simpler virtues are right for the times." If he is a plodder, says his counselor, Robert Hart­mann, that is only a "derogatory form of 'steady worker'...The plow horse has accomplished a lot more for the world than the race horse." 
Four more years of the Ford package promises, once again, key concepts of conservatism, budgetary restraint, tax cuts and few spending programs. It is somewhat of an appealing pack­
•age, especially with regard to curbing inflation and steadying the economy. The personality within it, that of Gerald R. Ford, is the primary characteristic the package needs to make it effect­ive, and could be what the country needs to get it back on its feet--not a quick and dangerous leap, but a slow and safe ascent. 
In any case, a known and proven entity such as Ford seems far better than the Untested commodity known as Carter. 
were untortunate circumstances. But I fail to see how they are indicative of a Ford Administra­tion. Had Mr. Kane taken the time to research those events to find out the truth, instead of giving his impressions, he would discover some amazing differ­ences to his opinion. 
If Mr. Ford appears to have some trace of racism, it is only because Mr. Kane out it there. I 

DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
toOK, I KNOW ?HE I KNOW, 
SO obI, JlJIINI&, 

PIECetVA5 AI.JlTtE RICK. IT'G 
IWtJ FOR ~ TOO. 

·/?OfJ5H, BUT YOtl JUST THAT I 
I Kf-.KJ«<fiOtllHIIRIJ OH, 




WSND's Problem 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii m;ke gas s man 
The recent "censorship" of WSND programming should be of importance not just to the students at Notre Dame. but to students, faculty, and administration alike. We have stumbled onto a problem that encompasses much more than simply the broadcasting of Notre Dame Hockey games. We have approached the question of the purpose, structure. and usefulness of the student media at du Lac, uncovering the fact that we must re-evaluate and change. 
Indeed, it is presently the right of the administration, as owner and licensee of WSND. to circumvent student management of the station. 
It is their legal responsibility to ensure that programming is consis­tent with FCC regulations. main­tains good taste, and is within the reputed "fine-arts" ,character of WSND-FM. And by all means, one must concede that it is difficult to consider hockey as a fine art. 
Nevertheless. what good is a student radio station if it is not run by the students? Similarly. what purpose would a student newspa­per serve if it were owned and ultimately operated by the admini­stration. The fact that the office of student affairs found it necessary to assert their control over the functioning of WSND. and did, proves that WSND as it now exists is not a student radio station. To call it so is a farce, and to stop with only the prevention of hockey broadcasts, and not do more, shows the unwillingness of the administration to resolve the real 
quote: "His (Ford;s) cry in his talk about taxes is that their money should no longer go to the lazy, good-for-nothing, poor (i.e. blacks), but instead be used to buy new toys for the Pentagon 
(i.e. the B-1. nuclear aircraft carriers, etc.)... " Mr. Kane is twisting Ford's stand on the use of Government funds. 
Mr. Ford is advocating pro­grams to get people to help themselves instead of pouring millions of dollars into programs to "spoon-feed" the poor. Inci­dently, Mr. Kane's interpretation of the "lazy, good-for-nothing, poor" as being the blacks, indi­cates his racism, not that of President Ford. 
The fact that funds are being used to strengthen our defenses hardly implies an attitude on the part of Government to merely make "toys". Would Mr. Kane rather we use all our money to ."spoon-feed" the poor and be in 
problem at hand. 

And the real problem is this: WSND. as both an AM and FM station. provides little service to the student population of Nou ::i Dame. The AM programming is gc•od. but the signal is weak and it isn't in stereo--thus. few people listen to it. FM broadcasts are professional. but fine arts music is not the mainstav of student listen­ing pleasure. Because of WSND's limited. if not non-existent appeal as a listening alternative. it is a failure not only as a realistic medium. but as a forum for student development in the fields of broad­casting and communication arts. 
The solution is a student radio station. of quality and program­ming that can compete with WNDU and WRBR. and that is under student control and student man­agement. Only when such a situation exists will the Notre Dame students be served. and a true medium be realized. Only then can services such as sports broadcast­ing and progressive programming 
be attained.  Only then will student  
interest  in  their  radio  station  
return.  

The administration must help the students to develop such a station. The interest. time. and money for a viable alternative as needed will prevent any such "censorships" as this from occurring. 
The protection of the student media is imperative. WSND. as all student media, must be the student voice of Notre Dame. 
constant fear of attack because we 
do not have adequate deterrent 
capabilities? 

Chuck Rumpf 

Where is Idealism? 
Dear Editor: 

What has happen, to the idealism of college students? How can many on this campus support a President who has been largely insensitive to the needs of the poor, of the powerless and of the hungry of this world? As citizens of the United States, can we really afford to support this candidate who has no vision other than to generally preserve a status quo which oppresses a great majority of humankind while working to the benefit of a small affluent minor­ity? 
Michael Bowler 
--~-~---------~ 
~~------~---~~----­
..1 
Thursday, October 28,1976 the observer 7 
--·~---~ 

An interuiew with Deufne 
Dan  Devine,  Notre  Dame  head  football  
coach  was  interviewed  last  night  by  
Observer Features Editor Tim O'Reiley.  
Observer: After a rough start this season  
the team seems to be on track, particularly  
on defense. Did you set any sort of goal or  
timetable at the beginning of the season for  
the team, and how do you think they're  
doing?  
Devine:  Well,  at  the  beginning  of the  
season,  all  coaches,  and  I'm  not  any  
different, down deep feel like you're going  
to win them all. If you happen to .lose one,  
then you're game is to win all the rest.  
That's your goal whether it is  a  realistic  
one or not.  
I don't think any coach ever, during the offseason or before the season, begins really faces up to the reality that maybe I don't have a strong enough team to go all the way. I took three starters and moved them to  United States that would go'two years and have that few. This year, again, we're playing Golic and Case, Heimkreiter and Becker as linebackers who are sopho­mores, not because we recruited them but because we think they are the best people  recruiting. But I found the last two years a lot more enjoyable than some of the problems we faced in pro ball, such as the player strike. I don't look down my nose at recruiting nearly as much as I did. Secondly, we recruit actively, we pay for  
the defense. Three very talented athletes, Teddy Burgmeir, who started as split end for us and Jim Browner who started the  for that position. And they're playing ahead of the seniors, but I have a feeling that even the seniors would admit down  one visit and tour of the campus. And during that visit we try to give the truth about Notre Dame because we don't want  
season  as fullback for  us  and Joe Restic  deep  in  their  heart  that  these  kids  are  them to come  here and be disenchanted.  
who of course is an offensive quarteback as a sophomore. All three of those people could start on offense somewhere. That  better. Everytime you change jobs, when Coach AraParscghiancame here, for example, he  He has to face up to the fact that it's tougher than 99 percent of the other schools academically. Campus life is a little  
move looks good now but nobody knows except me how close I was to moving Restic back to quarterback. when Montana and when Heavens got hurt, moving Browner back to fullback. BuJ I decided to leave that  inherited Hugh Devore's team ... that sen­ior class had a pick of 8 or I 0 people to play pro ball for. There are people there when you take a job, and you just have to find out who they are and how good they are.  different here. But there are many positive features to sell: the big college facilities, the academic stature when you graduate with a degree and of course an opportunity to play for probalby the world's most  
unit intact.  Observer:  In  general  terms,  could  you  famous athletic team.  
There's no way you can seperate certain segments of an offensP or defense so I'd have to say the team has probably come around better than I had a right to expect. No. I expected more but I don't think I really had a right to expect more. When I say play as a team for instance in the last two games, we've had no fumbles. Also. against South Carolina, South Carolina never took over the ball in Notre Dame  describe the role of the head coach? Devine:Well, I'm here and they (the assistants) are all home; that's the big thing. Not because they are lazy, because they are all hard workers. For someone who has never been a head coach and it's one of the rudest awakening that they would ever have in their life. You're just responsible for L'\'l'rYthing. every facet of the program.  Observer: Recruiting is one area that has been wide open for abuse. Do you see any reforms needed in the o,·erall setup of the rules? Devine: Yes. I think that a coach makes a decision early in his life whether he is going to cheat or go straight. Very few cheaters will last 29 year. Lots of times it's tough to stand on the sidelines and feel like you're playing golf with a guy you know is  
territory and usually they had eighty yards to go. That's my concept of team play. You'll find that probably in the last two weeks that we've been the best team in the  In my first year of coaching at Arizona State, we played at the University of Hawaii and won quite handily over the Hawaii team. We stayed a few days and  going to kick the ball out of the rough every time. They have the same advatage, it's kind of tough. As far as reforms are concerned I think we are in better shape  
United States as far as giving a team effort, but we've got a long way to go. Our offensive unit has done a magnificent job. The way I feel, we have room to improve in any facet, for instance as well as our defense is playing, they still haven't scored any points. The reason our defense is playing well is that they have intercepted 4 or 5 passes and blocked a couple of kicks. We haven't been getting very good field position and this is the area I'd like to improve on. Purdue threw the ball38 times and we didn't have a sack. The next week  one of the kids went swimming in the ocean, but that night he lost his bridge. The next day his mother called me from New Jersey to give me heck why I let Tom go swimming with the bridge. Anything that happens you are responsbile for. As far as everything that happens on the field, you are rc~ponsiblc for that, too. I know exactly what we are going to do in almost any situation, offensively, defen­sively, and in the kicking game. But when it comes right down to making a decision. for instance, of moving those three  that we've ever been. Observer: One other change In the NCAA would establish a different divisional-type set-up, where you have a division of super teams to avoid lopsided games. Would you support some change like this? Devine: I would, but I can't speak for the university. I can only speak for Dan Devine. The university's feelings are policy I would personally support . Observer: Would the administration make the final decision? Devine: Yes, the administration and the  
Northwestern threw the ball thirty-some times and we didn't have a key intercep­ kids,those decisions have to be made by the head coach. Nobody else can make  faculty and the athletic board make a decision like that and I'm sure that they'd  
tion. When a team is doing that, throwing the ball thirty-some times at least you  them and you have to live with them. Observer: Like some coaches, do you tend  take intoconsiderationmy recommendation which would be yes. But I'm not saying  
should have an interception. Like two years ago in the Navy game, Harrison's intercep­ to concentrate on one aspect of the game in particular?  that they would recommend it. Observer: Is the importance of football  
tion at the end of the game won it for us. Observer: Do you feel you're team Is coming closer to Its potential, that is bas steadily improved? Devine: Yes, particularly considering the injuries to those guys like Weston and Harrison just to name two on the defense and then Montana and then Heavens. A  Devine: No, I never have, although I've always been a defensive-oriented man, I've never had a poor defensive team. For instance,in the first five years I played Nebraska as a head coach they didn't score a point. I didn't know that until I read it in the Minneapolis paper. 1 took four college teams to Minneapolis to play the  bloated versus academic needs? Should we be tougher on the standards for athletes? Devine: I think we are getting things pretty well straightened out, and again. that's something I think is pretty much up to the head coach to keep the team in the proper perspective. It's not reflected on the scoreboard or in you personal record, but I  
loss of Heavens was a terrible blow to us,  University  of  Minnesota  and  they  were  think  it's  reflected  in  the  lives  of  the  
because he was a whole dimension of our  good  Minnesota  teams--one  went  to  the  players  that  you've  touched.  If  you've  
football team that not many teams have. He was a fullback that could get short yardage but he can also go 65 or 70 yards. Then of course Eurick started the next  Rose Bowl. I took four Green Bay teams to play the Vikings. I took eight teams in all to Minneapolis and those eight teams gave up a total of three touchdowns. That's not  cheated them out of an education, short· changed them, I think that its the coach's fault. I think it sounds a little trite or naive. but  
game and he got hurt. We started three different fullbacks in six games which, with all that juggling, makes it a lot harder. Observer: What's your outlook for the second half of the season?  even a half a touchdown a game. The two best teams in the country today. probably Michigan and Pitt~burgh, hardly throw at all any more. Michigan throws 4 or 5 passes a game and Pittsburgh is down  I don't think any segment of people get more enjoyment to see one of their prodigeesbecome successful in any walk of ltke as the coaches do. It's a quiet kind of satisfaction and it's one that you don't  
Devine: I can't say that except that right now we're talking only about Navy; that's they way we've got to approach it. Observer: Going back a little ways, what problems did you find In inheriting what was basically another coach's team: per­sonnel that be recruited and trained in a  to -running the ball. You've got to have a good sound running attack and then if you can, you work you passing game around that. You've got the whole bundle, then. It takes skilled people to have a good passing game, a good thrower and good catchers. Not just one catcher, you have to 1  often talk about because it does sound trite. But still I think I speak for most of my colleagues that it's something we get out of the game. A captain of my 1966 team was here for the Oregon game and he's a very prominent orthopedic surgeon right now. It's great to see' him in the lockerroom  
different system? Devine: You'll find that in any job you move into, there's other people there. We played freshmen ahead of seniors not because they were kids we had recruited but because we felt they were better football players. An in fact we had only one senior drafted in the pros last year, Steve Niehaus, out of 28 teams in 16 rounds.  have three. You have to have good pass protection, and not just a good thrower but a smart quarterback that can read defen­ses. A good passing game is predicated on reading defense. With teams that are really good on disguising defenses, you don't know until the last second if it's man to man or zone. Teams work more on disguising defense than they used to.  doing so well and reminiscing. Knowing that you've t• 1ped this kid along is' compensation. Observer: You sound somewhat like a professor. Old you tee! the same way in you pro ball? Devine: Yes, but to a less extent but it still was there. I still maintain a great deal of contact with players at Green Bay or  
Eddie Bauer was drafted but Eddie was not  Observer:  One aspect of the  game  that  players Green Bay has traded.  
a senior, he was a five-year man. That's probably fewer than any major college team in the country. I think we have some pretty good seniors this year but pro scouts tell me that we may not have any drafted this year. And if that happened, there wouldn't be another major team in the  most coaches dislike Is recruiting. What do you feel about recruiting and when you find out about a promising high school player, bow do you go about getting him to come to Notre Dame? Devine: Number one, when I left college coaching to go into pro ball, I detested  Observer: Now that you have been on both sides of the fence, do you think that you'd be tempted to some time in the distant future to go back to try the pros again? Devine: It would be in the distant future. It would certainly not be something I would want to do right now.  


•t 
j 
j 
~ ~ 
Observer: Let's say that JOU aC'C'ompllshed all the goals JOU could at Notre Dame. Devine: Then I might. but then I haven't done that vet. Obsener: -What do JOU think are the major differences between the two levels? Devine: Well. I guess the two major differences arc procurement of players: recruiting versus the draft and trades. The other big difference is that after four vear~ of college. you lose the guy. But in. that period of time in pro ball the player is just becoming what you call a veteran. You don't have to start with a new bunch so often. 
Once the game starts it's basil-ally the same game. The team that makes the fewest mistakes wins. The lockerroom at halftime or before the game is also verv si"milar. Agedoesn't mean -you're mature·. Obsener: How would JOU describe the lifestyle of the coach as different from another professional? Devine: Almost every place I've been. I've had a free membership in a countrv club but we droppend out of that Sl'Cill: years ago. the little time I've hadd off I wanted to spend with my family. My life i~ a cnstant fight for free time. Observer: Do JOU ha\e aD) fa\orlte gimmicks for coaching? How has )our st)lc evolved? 
De\·ine: I've done some rcalh· extreme things in my life. For instance, ir; ll.J:"X. m\ first year at Missouri.we were hL·atcn hv Oklahoma. I promi~cd the team next tim~· we came to Norman we'd win even though we hadn't won in 24 vcars. We won that game 31-19. · 
But that's a verv ra~h statement for me. I'm really an emoiional person and I tn· tn correct this which is reallv an cndeavnr. I like to think of mvself as i sound man. one with enough cou~age to do the things hca and his staff think arc right. Observer: Do you see aDJ major Innova­tions In the future or any that JOU would like to Institute? 
Devine: There isn't any innovation right now. Defenses and offenses remain pretty constant. I can't rcallv sec too much change coming in the near future. Obsen·er Have you set any kind of goals for yourself here at Notre Dame? Devine: I could B.S. but I've always been the kind to shoot a stright arrow. My goal is to win every ball game. We're going to get closer to that goal. until. despite the fact that our schedules are getting much stronger, we will go undefeated. 
But I have to believe that every true Notre Dame fan would like to see u.s beat the No. I team 14-13, than to see us beat Northwestern 48-0. I think a true Notre Dame person wants the really competitive schedule. Observer: Thank you, coach Devine. 

** THE  *** *  
IN CONCERT  

------~------~------­
the observer Thursday, October 28, 1976 
8 ___:_:__:__ 



Nuclear power key issue in election 
WASHINGTON AP--Aithough facility. proposals seem to stand a better opposed by a broad range of Nuclear facilities would also 
overshadowed by presidential and Environment groups and other chance of passage, here and there, congressional elections, the Nov. 2 supporters say such guarantees are than the dollar-power alone might balloting will also determine the justified by the alleged hazards of indicate. future of nuclear power in six nuclear power. In Washington, public opinion states. The nuclear and electric utility polls have indicated a strong 
The nuclear power industry beat industries say the proposed guar-chance of passing the antinuclear back an antinuclear initiative in a antees are so tough they would measure; observers in Oregon be-California referendum last June, actually ban further nuclear power lieve the measure has an even only to see six more spring up in in any state adopting them, leading chance or better, while polls indi­thc ballots of Arizona, Colorado to electricity shortages. cate a close vote. Washington, Oregon, Montana and Opponents of the initiatives are In Montana, without benefit of Ohio. pouring millions of dollars into opinion polls, both sides were 
The passage of any one of them campaigns against the propopsals, predicting a close contest. on Nov. 2 would be a grave setback outspending the antinuclear forces In Colorado, a poll published to the nuclear industry. many times over. earlier this month by the Denver 
All six ballot proposals are In Ohio alone, utility-backed foes Post showed that 55 percent of c~~cntially similar. requiring guar-of the antinuclear iniative have a $1 those polled appeared to favor the antccs of safety and full accident-million budget, 25 times the budget antinuclear measure, 25 percent compensation, affirmed by both of its supporters. a coalition of were against, and 20 percent were house.., of a state's legislature, seven consumer groups. undecided. hdore r'tat state can permit a The pattern appears similar in In Ohio, both sides claimed nuell'ar power plant or related the other states, but the ballot favorable polls but the measure is 
Rhodesian strife .may finally end 
GENEVA. Switzerland -The Rho­Ambassador lor Richard of Brit­active support for the achievement 
desian drama enters a new and ain will preside over the council of black majority rule. maybe final phase today when chamber of Geneva's Palais des Kissinger and the British follow­black nationalist leaders meet Nations. a place filled with ghostly ed through with secret exchanges 
Prime Minister lan Smith on an reminders of failed efforts to secure mvolving South Atrican Pnme equal basis for the first time. They peace between the two world wars. Minister John Vorster who, since will carry assurance that white For delegates of the four balck 1965, has been Rhodesia's main mastery is on its way out in their Rhodesian factions at least one source of material. money and homeland. mural will offer a touch of ironic military support. A second mission symbolism. It portrays "social through Africa last month culmin­
But on the eve of a laboriously 
progress'' in the freeing of Amer­ated in an understanding thatorganized settlement conference, ican slaves at the end of the Civil Smith, given certain conditions,Smith's white minority government War. would negotiate a transfer of thebetrayed no readiness to swiftly or The black-white meeting here power wielded by whites since theeasily yield. the control it has flows, essentially', from an initia­19th century. He agreed thatexercised for II years. The basic tive undertaken by U.S. Secretary control should pass from theblack-white disagreement over the of State Henry A. Kissinger in 270,000 whites to the nation's 6.4
i:onference's purpose remained 
close concert with Britain and the million blacks within two years.
unresolved. 
black nat-ions surrounding Rho­Centerpiece of the understand­It was on Nov. 11, 1965, that desia. Kissinger's intervention ing, in American, British and black 
Smith broke away from Britian, 
came in the wake of the collapse of African eyes at least, was the final refusing to accede to Britain's Portugal's empire in Africa and the and belated acceptance by the wishes to hand power over to rise of Cuban and Soviet influence Smith regime of early black rule. 
blacks in Rhodesia as the British 
in Angola. But Smith and his colleagues 
were doing elsewhere in their The secretary, during an African looked at the issues differently. To African colonies. No outside gov­journey last April, announced a them, the heart of the matter is not ernment has yet acknowledged the 
basic switch in U.S. policy away the principle of transferring power, unilateral declaration of indepen­from cooperating with white mi­but the practicalities of how to dence. 
nority governments and toward arrange it. British officials spread word ahead of the talks that they 
Burglars caught by police
consider a settlement possible. They stressed that the public postures of the participants did not 

in attempted airport heist 
necessarily reflect their less ve­
hement private attitudes. NEW YORK -Three alleged burg­Belvedere, 47, of Gelndale, lars, thinking they were on the way Queens; Cosmo Mazzapella, 52, of to an $80-million caper, walked into Brooklyn, and Ralph Leichtwers, 47
Gershwin music the arms of waiting police at a of Manhattan. cargo terminal at Kennedy Ariport Belvedere and Mazzapella both
to be performed early yesterday morning. had criminal records, prosecutor But at least three more members Joan Carey said. Police said Leich­in SMC concert of the burglary team got away twers was a German draftsman when police sprang their trap early with electronics know-how and was The Saint Mary's Department of for fear that delay might cost the carrying a variety of sophisticated Music will present "An Evening of lives of two undercover operatives. electronics hardware that the George Gershwin tonight at 8 p.m. The nearly two dozen police burglars had expected to use to in Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall. officers waiting at the Swissair bypass the alarm system of the 
The program will feature over 30 cargo hangar had known for three Swissair vault. !>tudent pianists. singers and per­months of the plot to rob a huge Police said at least three sus­cussionists dressed in costumes vault in the hangar of cash, gold pected confederates of the arrested from the period. They will perform and jewelry stored there for ship­ttio were being sought, along with numbers such as "Swanee," ment. fencse who would have handled the 'Fascinating Rhythm," "It's Just The arrested men, held without watches, gems gold bullion and Another Rumba" and "Mischa, bail, were identified as Michale other valuables within the vault. 
'r ascha. Toscha. Sascha." The 
~citing of the concert will resemble drawing room with the audience seated as if they were guests of the performers. 
Admission is $1, and includes intermission refreshments. Seating ts limited; for reservations, contact 

he SMC Programming Office, Z84-4176. . 
ASK CHARLIE
Christian renewe/ 1 J 
An Antibiotic Class, the Tetracyclines 
(E. G. Achromycin, Sumycin, Tetracyn,

day scheduled 

Robiiet, Panmycin) should not be taken 
A Christian Day of Renewal wtll 

with milk or milk products, because 
he held this Saturday afternoon. 
Absorption is impaired by milk Protein. 
Oct. JO at the Bulla Shed. Open to 
When taking this drug you should avoid 
all students. faculty and local 
Milk, Cottage Cheese, Ice Cream,
residents. the day of renewal calls 
Velveeta, Etc. Also avoid Antacids
for the awakening or reawakening 
containing Aluminium Salts or prepara­
to the power of Christ in human 
tions containing Iron.
lives. The afternoon will consist of two 
interest groups. require approval of the governor in 
An independent poll in Arizona Arizona's version of the initiative of recently pointed to failure of the the sitting council in Washington, initiative in November. and of a review board in Montana. 
All six ballot initiatives would Oswald Greager, of Richland, require that nuclear facilities be Wash., cochairman of the cam-proven safe by prior equipment paign against that state's nuclear testing before they may be built or initiative, says that "the sponsors operated within the state. aren't interested in regulated nu-
All six would also require proof clear safety. They want to ban the that nuclear materials will be safely construction of any more nuclear stored and handled, before facili-power plants, and they intend to ties can be authorized. achieve that goal with bureaucratic 
All six would require that the suffocation, political leverage and nuclear power industry assume public fear." responsibility for "full compensa-Peter Lauritzen of Seattle, head­tion" of all damages resulting form in the proinitiative campaign, ar­a nuclear accident. gues that it will mean "we have a 
Five of them include a ban on voice in the future energy decis­nuclear facilities u"ntil and unless ions. These decisions should not Congress repeals the so-called be left solely to a small number of Price-Anderson Act, which provid-utility executives." ed liability insurance for commer-The six initiatives differ mainly cial nuclear power plants, but only in defining the cut-off dates, be­up to a limit of some $560 million; yond which new facilities or appli­these states would insist on unlim-cations would have to meet the ited liability. proposed requirements. 
Only Ohio's nuclear iniative o-That was one lesson apparently mits a specific requirement for learned from the defeat of the removal of federal liability limita-California nuclear initiative, which tion of nuclear facilities by munici-could have applied tough new pal corporations. regulations to power plants already 
in operation, raising the fear of Approval necessary 
actual pjant shutdowns and power shut-offs. 
In all six initiatives, authoriza­An anti-iniatiative advertisement tion of nuclear facilities would in Washington State shows a light require explicit approval by both bulb slowly fading, but in fact the houses of the state legislature. six November ballot proposals 
In Arizona and Ohio, a simple would probably affect no existing majority in each house would be power plants, although they might required; and in Montana a legisla­cover some already under construc­tive joint resolution would also be tion. called for, also apparently meaning Passage of any one of these majority votes. initiatives would not affect the legal 
In Colorado, Washington, and status of nuclear plants in other Oregon; legislative approval would states, but would certainly inject require a two-thirds vote of each one more element of uncertainty house-a stiff requirement that par­into the already nervous industry, ticularly outrages foes of the ballot encouraging the antinuclear forces initiatives. to stronger efforts. 
~"""'-~"""'"7"'"-T""---:..----::o---::--......,--.,......_o::::::....-.----,.'""7'---,,....___._.,--....,...."T"OI,. 
lt>j...:::......;::;--::-......::;o.:::;:;__.::;__...L....c.:::..::::......:::.._;;:...:::::.;::=:;,:::~~:::...'-ol::::;;;;;;::::...:::......::::::.~~

Saturday Novemher·20 8:00PM ic NOTRE DAME ACC ic 
PRESENTED BY NOTRE DAME CONCERT 
•

COMMISSION . ic 
talks by feature.! speakers, quiet 
~ TICKETS $6.50, 5.50 ON SALE
periods for personal reflection and 
~ MONDAY NOV. 1 AT: ACC STUDENT
small group discussions. A mass at 
7:30 will close the day. Anyone UNION AND ALL ACC OUTLETS. .lf wanting more information may call Emily Foster 1274 pr Fr. O'Connor 7651. 
.* * * *·** * * * 



. first musical review to be featured in the Nazz, "Jaques Brei is Alivt> and Well and Living in Paqs," will be playing this Friday iHld Saturday night. [photo by Janet Carney] 



Talk presented on Fr. Zahm 's ND 
by Bob V arettonl Staff Reporter 
Cornfields on the South Quad? 

That's the way it was when Fr. John Zahm taught physics at Notre Dame. But that was during the turn of the century, in the days of the 25 cent football ticket. 
Tom Schlereth, an assistant pro­fessor in American Sutdies, told 20 students in the basement of Zahm Hall last night that the hall's namesake lived in' a time when the Golden Do~ was a tin dome painted white\ Schlereth's lecture "John Zahm's Notre Dame, "was a part of the hall's annual birthday celebration. 
John Zahm, according to Schler­eth, ca.ne to Notre Dame as a student in 1867 and stayed on as a teacher and an administrator until his death in 1921. He said Zahm was influential in building what are now LaFortune Center and Crowley Hall. Zahm ·was especially intet­ested in establishing 'l high ac­acemic reputation for Notre Dame, he added. 
Drunk captain may be cause of accident 
NEW ORLEANS AP--The cap­
tain of a Mississippi River ferry 
packed with early morning commu­
ters was "almost legally drunk" 
when his craft collided with a 
tanker, killing an estimated 100 
persons, a coroner said yesterday. 

''This ferryboat captain had been 
drinking,'' said New Orleans Cor­
oner Frank Minyard. "He was 
almost legally drunk, and this, 
coupled with the fact that he was at 
the end of his shift-the drinking 
and the fatigue-in my judgement 
impaired his ability to handle the 
vessel." 

Minyard said the autopsy on Capt. Egidio Auletta, completed Wednesday, showed a blood alcohol content of .09 per cent. "That is just a tad under 0.1 ... which is the legal definition of bein~ drun~ in the State c>f Louisi­ana, he satd. 
The ferry George Prince and the Norwegian tanker Frosta collided at dawn last Wednesday as the smaller craft made the 10 minute crossing from Destrehan to Luling, about 20 miles upriver from New Orleans. 
' Divers have recovered 71 bodies 
and 34 vehicles from the river so 
far. Officials have compiled a list of 
27 other persons believed to be 
missing, although they acknow­
ledge there is no way to tell how ' 
many were actually aboard at the 
time of the accident. 

Eighteen persons survived the accident. 
Some officials said after the mishap the captain's body was not found on the bridge. He was the only licensed pilot known to be aboard. 
''There is no way to tell how much the alcohol impaired the captain's ability," said a spokes­
"Fr. John was arrogant, very bright, and he could not stand mediocrity, " said Schlereth. He said Zahm was a famous person­ality in his time; a leading Catholic thinker who hobnobbed with na­tional leaders. 
• Schlereth lectured using slides. He compared Fr. John's environ­ment to the modern Notre Dame. He showed one picture of the old lin-domed administration building which burned down in 1879. 
According to Schlereth, when Zahm taught in the new admin­istration building there was a dining hall where the cashier's office is today. On the second floor, where the registrar's office is, there was a study hall. There was dorm space on the third floor. and Schlereth added a library on what is now the fourth floor. 
Schlereth said in the beginning days of Notre Dame the calendar question would sound funny. ''Some students would start school in December,'' he said. "Others would drift in and out, go home for a couple of months and then come 
man in the coroner's office. "No way to tell whether it was 10 per cent or 40 per cent. He was a young man, weighed about 200 pounds and that would have had an effect .... But Dr. Minyard felt that his reflexes were slowed down." 
The coroner told reporters only one autopsy was made. It included a test of urine, which showed no 
MARY 



HESS 
~ 0te 


Vote 
Machine Machine lOA lOA 

Democrat for State Representative Ninth District 
MARY HESS will support: 
Lowering of Drinking Age Adequate funding for educa­tion and programs for the aged 
Meaningful tax reform State support for police and
Strong consumer protection firemen's pensions
laws Lomprehensive and wide­
Go,·ernment reorganization spread reform of utility regu­lations to represent consumers 

Collective bargaining for public emploJees The Equal Rights Amendment 

Paid for by Mary Hess for State 
Representative Committee 
trace of drug content in the captain's blood. 
He said no other autopsies were performed because there were so many victims. "We knew how they died," he said. "They all died of drowning.'' 
He said he presented a copy of the autopsy to the Coast Guard, which is conducting an inquiry into the collision. 
back again." 
Schlereth has written a book, recently published, on Notre Dame history. He lectured for an hour and answered questions for a half hour after that. Tom Zahm, a student and Fr. John's great-great nephew, organ­ized the event. Tonight, as another part of Zahm Hall.'s 39th birthday celebration, Fr. Hesburgh will say mass in the Zahm chapel at 10:30 
p.m. 


Bike club offers weekly rides . 
The Cycle Touring Club announ· ced plans to continue its weekly Sunday rides until the weather gets bad. These rides leave from the fountain on the south side of the Hudd!e every Sunday morning at 
10:30 am. Each week a short ride is planned through the countryside with this weekend's ride going into the farmlands of Michigan. All rides end in time for lunch and are open to all interested persons. 

:hursday, October 28, 1976 the observer 

French musical review to be featured by Nazz 
by Joe Gill Staff Reporter 
"Jaques Brei is Alive and Well and Living in Paris,'' a musical review, will be playing at 8 p.m. this Friday and Saturday at the Nazz in the basement of LaFortune. 
Lou Spisto. the director of the 
revue, stated thatit is "a musical 
review of 25 songs" that result in 
"a very thoughtful. very deep 
show." The music is by Jacques 
Brei. a contemporary French song· 
·writer. The themes of "love, death 
sex and the pain of life" are. 
highlighted. said Spisto. 
"The review was originally done 
in Greenwich Village in New York 
at a theatre that is verv similar to 
the Nazz," Spisto said. "After 
seeing itdone in New York. I fell in 
love with it and I've wanted to do it 
ever since," he concluded. 
The huge and overcrowded mo· 
vie theatre with its large and impersonal audience is not nearly . as effective or enjoyable as a musical review presented in the 
Nazz, according to Spisto. 
Toohey compares party platforms to Catholic stand 
!continued from page 31 
are standing in the way of the 
people in the streets to speak about 
abortion and the moral fiber in this 
country.·· 
Toohey lectured to the Howard 
Hall body about comparisons bet­
ween the platform advocated by the 
Catholic Bishops and the major 
political parties. 
"In foreign policy. both parties 
are about the same with the 
bishops. but in the areas of 
domestic affairs, both parties have 
a lot catching up." he said: ~ 
"But the bishops come on much 
stronger than do either of the 
candidates," said Toohey." "This 
is a good thing, for someone has to 
keep in touch with the critical 
issues." 
Goerner, who moderated the 
symposium, summed up his feeling 
by saying "Our campaigns are 
ill-suited to deal with issues. I 
heard a guy say that the guy who 
makes the last mistake 
is going to win. That is not ahappy 
thought." 

Audio Specialists LOUDSPEAKER SEMINAR 
with 

IRVING M. FRIED INTERNATIONALLY A(:<:LAIME() DESIGNER OF LOlJDSPEAKERS 
Mr. F .;ed will be aYailable fr·om 12 -8 f'rida.·.-( Jt·tobt•r 29 to answer any questions ~·on ma~ have on loudspeaker <pmlit~ pla<·ement or des4!n. 
Brin~ him your questions ·on what to listen for in bu}·in~ speakers and how to evaluute your present system. 

12-8 Friday at 415 N. Michipan 
The revtew is.,.sponsored by the Student Union Social Commission and production began last April. continuing through the summer. 
The actors are Spisto. Maria Costello. Mike McCord. Sallv Naxera and Florenceann Strigl~. Stage manager is Steve Fantano and the band director is Mike Moses. The show is playing both this weekend and next, with a $1 admission fee. 


trust 

to lttc~ 




Test your aiarnond 
e~ 

Q. WHAT~S ·1 
CONSIDERhD THE. BEST COlOR 1:--; A DJA~IOND? 
A. Crystal-clear ab'iencc of any color in the hoJy of a diamond is considaeJ the finest quality. This i' interior color, not the fta,he, of rain­how colors called "fire:· Value falls as a tinge of yel­low deepens the JiamonJ in hotly color. 1\kmhcr, of the American Gem Soc·iety me a number of scientific methods to determine the Jegree of yellow in each stone in order 1 to set a proper value and 
·quality grade. Come in soon and let us explain other per­tinent points used by profcs­~ional jewelers in determining diamond value. 

•.~s~)~ .'..EMBE~ AMl" ''" GEM 50('1[1Y I 
OLUmoJul.l ..... 7i tlklio_"}o,'t'ln.f 
Can.ve,..,t c,..a;, TH"" 

V:~J~il,~~f.:k co. 
234-2919 

10 the observer Thursday, October 28,1976
-----'-----'--"---'::._::::__::_::_:__=-----------------­





Conrad denies Bowen accusations 
Democratic gubernatorial nom­inee Larry A. Conrad charged Wednesday that Gov. Otis R. Bowen is deliberately misrepre­senting Conrad's state income tax proposals. 
Bowen. meanwhile, picked up the endorsement of the state's largest newspaper, the Indiana­polls Star. 
"Gov. Bowen has apparently decided he can no longer run on his record,'' Conrad said in a state­ment released by his office, "be­cause he is accusing me of target­ing every state tax source, individ­ual and corporate, for increase. He knows that is not so.'' 
The secretary of state said he has proposed a graduated net income tax system based on ability to pay. Such a system would result in a tax decrease for the average wage earner, Conrad said. 
He said August figures howed the average non-supervisory pro­duction worker was earning $9,268 annually. Under his proposal, that worker would receive a tax reduc­tion of more than $122 a year, Conrad said. The Star, which traditionally backs Republican candidates, praised Bowen for sticking by campaign pledges and operating a "common­sense administration" that nad 
created  a  healthy  economy  in  
Indiana.  
"The  outstanding  accomplish­ 

ment ... is the enactment of his property tax relief package," said the newspaper. "At first the Star questioned the wisdom of the tax package... But the property tax reduction of roughly 20 percent is 

Ford contends his administration varies from his predecessors 
Prc-.idcnt Ford. nmtending there i-. ;1 "di...rinct dillcrence" between hb adrnini-.tration and that of Richard Nixon. i~ working to put distance between hirn~clf and his prcdcecs­'>Or. 
Ford c<1mpaigned Wednesday in New Jersey and Pennsylvania and wa'> ll_,·ing to Ohio and Indiana todav. 
Dn~mcratic nominee Jimmv Car­tn campaigned Wednesday (n New York and Pcnnwlvania and dec­lared in Pittsburgh that his econo­mic policiL'~ would make a tax cut 
"alrno~t  inevitable"  in  the  next  
four vears.  
Ford·~  running  mate,  Sen.  Bob  

Dole. apparently under pressure from within his own party to back away from his debate contention that the war~ of this century were partisan contlirts. changed · that statement. then said he didn't change it. and then denied he ever said World War I. World War II. Korea and Vietnam were "Demo­crat war~. 
Carter's running mate, Sen. Walter Mondalc. was taking today off after a swing through Penns~·l­vania. New York. New Jersey and West Virginia. 
Ford's willingness to bring up Nixon's name in public marks a departure from his previous strate­gy of barcl~· admitting to the existence of the resigned former. president. 
In the past, when Ford was placed in a position, where he had to mention Nixon, the former presi­dent became "my predecessor." Once or twice. Nixon was referred to as "Lyndon Johnson's succes­sor. 
But Ford in the past two days has used paid television shows beamed to voters in several states to contrast his administration with that of Nixon and to assert that there is a difference between the 
two. 

The Ford television programs arc in a talk show format in which Ford is lobbed friendly questions by sporhcaster and supporter, Joe Garagiola. Dn Wednesday. Garag­iola noted the Democrats refer to a "Nixon-Ford administration." 
Ford replied that "the average guy in the street knows there's a distinct difference" between Nixon and Ford, the President said. He said he docs not get large quanti­ties of mail that link him with Nixon, but his mail docs "hold me accountable" for the state of the nation in the pasi two years. 
And, Ford said. Carter is "run­
ning against Jerry Ford.  He's not  
running against  former  President  
Nixon."  

On Tuesday. in a broadcast aimed 
Statues replaced by copies 
ATHENS, Greece !API-Part of the real thing will be missing for future visitors to the Acropolis. In place of many of the 2,500-year-old statues from Greece's Golden Age will be brand-new, British-made copies. 
The statues themselves, includ­ing such familiar ones as the maidens of the Karyates Temple. arc going to be tucked away in a museum to protect them from pollution. 
Constantine Tripanis. minister of culture and sciences. announced the plan to substitute marble copies for the originals yesterday. He said it is part of a $2 million project to protect or restore Greece's archeo­logical remains. 
Tripanis said the first marble sculptures to be removed from the Acropolis will be from the triangul­ar front pediment of the Parthenon. temple to the goddess Athena. They will include the statues of Kckropas and his virgin escort' Callirrhoe. 
The finely engraved, lifesize works were found to be the most eroded in a recent study by the 
U.N. Educational. Scientific and Cultural Organization and the Greek government. The study concluded the monuments have suffered more from pollution alone in the last 40 years than from all the damage received during the past four centuries. 
Kekropas, the mythical fou~der, builder and first king of Athens, is depicted in half human, half dra­gon form. Callirrhoe is depicted as a reclining woman embodying a then-revered water spring of that name. 
Larger antiquities will also be replaced by marble copies, the most important being the Karyates Temple with maidens serving as columns. One of the seven marble maidens. held in a British museum for two centuries and unexposed to pollution, has been shown to be in markedly better condition than those on the hill. 
Tripanis said the originals will be removed to the new Acropolis museum now being developed. The copies are being made at the British Museum, he said, with the first delivery scheduled for No­vember. 
The Acropolis, a 260-foot-high hill dominating Athens, was walled during the 6th century B.C. by the 
Pelasgians. It was devoted to religious rather than defensive 
purposes and during the next century was adorned with some of the world's greatest architectural and sculptural monuments. 
The Acropolis was laid waste by the Persians in 480 B.C., and its remains have become a mecca for tourists. students and art lovers. Many of the surviving treasures were placed in the Greek national at Illinois voters. Ford said the ditlerencc between him and Nixon was that there is "no pomp, there's no ceremony, there's no dictatorial authority" ~ow. 
Meanwhile, Car.ter mentioned the po~sibility of a tax cut in a radio interview in Pittsburgh when he told a questioner that instead of raising taxes there is a "much more likely prospcl't of tax reduc­tiNn in the next four vcars. I believe it is almost incvit<ible." 
Asked later if he meant there could be a general tax cut, he said, "I would sav that is true." 
Carter previously has said he would redistribute the tax burden to give tax cuts to lower and middle income families by closing tax loopholes, lowering tax rates and throwing more of a burden on upper income taxpayers. 

ND Republicans sponsor short tal 
The Notre Dame College Repub­licans are sponsoring a short talk by St. Joe County Republican Chariman Jack Eilis tonight at 6:30 
p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium. The talk ,will be fol· lowed by a brief meeting scheduled to end by 7:30p.m. The talk is open to all interested persons. 

museum long ago.__:.____________________ 
AN EUAL
US 31 NORTH 
OPPORTUNITY
:SO. BEND IND 
EMPLOYER 

The Boar's Head is auditioning 1&2 piece 
groups for our cocktail lounge hours of 
entertainment run 8:00 pm to 1:OOam 
Tues thru Sat (soft rock & guitar & vocal) 
Apply in person for appt. between 2-4 pm 
Mon thru Fri·' Ask for Jim Painter-manager 
indeed real.. .and so far it has been held together." 
Taking exception to one of Conrad's frequent campaign themes the paper called it "silly to criticize the property tax relief on the ground that it's paid for out of increased sales tax." 
"Of course it is," the Star said, "but that's the way it was planned, and neither the governor nor 
anyone else ever tried  to conceal  
the fact  that  it  would  work  that  
way."  

In other political action W ednes­day, Sen. Vance-Hartke told a labor rally in Evansville that "only the Democratic Party has the commit­ment and the program that can get America back to work and off the unemployment line." 
In remarks prepared for his 
address, Hartke said recent figures showing a 170,000 decline in the number of employed Americans were evidence of' 'the emptiness of Republican claims that the econ­omy is turning around." 
Meanwhile, Hartke's Republican challenger, Richard G. Lugar, told a rally of GOP workers in Indiana­polis that "constructive govern­ment must begin with constructive campaigning" and urged them to "keep on the high road." 
"Malicious personal attacks, without a shred of evidence, are of no value in politics_joday," Lugar said in reamrks prepared for his address. "The ridiculous charges of our opposition are only solidi­fying our position, and it's impor­tant that none of us lose our temper or our sense of humor at this 
point.'' 




No price hikes for '77 cars 
WASHINGTON The governments inflation monitoring agency reported that car buyers aren't likely to face any more price increases on 1977 models, even though the manufacturers have trimmed their •profit margin per car. 
The Council on Wage and Price Stability, said manufacturers are making up at least in part for the lower profit per car by making more cars. 
The conclusions were based on 
confidential data submitted to the 
council by General Motors, Ford, 
Chrysler, and American Motors. 
Although the council has reviewed 
auto prices and costs in the past, 
acting director William Lilley Ill 
said this was the first time the 
agency had access to such con­fidentiaidata. The council esitmated that the increase in the retail price of an average equipped car for 1977 was $333, or 5.9% over the 1976 model. At the same time, the council estimated the automaker's income per car increased $295 for the current model year. Costs rose 
$335, it said. The result was a narrowing of the pretax profit margin per car to 
6. 7o/o. The profit margin had been 7.9% on the 1976 model year, the council said. 
The council estimated that dom­estic production will total 8.9 million passanger cars this year, compared to 8.5 million in the 1976 model year. 
The council report indicated that factors which helped hold down price increases this year included a more profitable 1976 model year. 
Pistols remain undefeated at seasons end 

For the second consecutive year, the Crystal Pistols have completed an undefeated season and captured the lnterhall 16" Softball cham­pionship. Their 9-0 record this fall extended the team's unbeaten streak to 24 straight games. The Crystal Pistols swept a tough series from the Hole in the Wall Gang. winners of the American division. 






~· PARTY 
~SHOPPES 

Visit our two "Notre Dame" locations 
LIQUOR WINE BEER MIX 
FREE DELIVERY $10 minimum 287-7744 
IRONWOOD 
ROSELAND 

PARTY SHOPPE 
PARTY SHOPPE 

1725 N. Ironwood 
113 Dixieway N 



'272-7144 
272-6177 




KEG BEER 
IN STOCK AT IRONWOOD PARTY SHOPPE CALL IN ADVANCE TO ORDER/RESERVE 
-

Thursday, October 28, 1976 the observer 1 l 
Hughes relied on for line leadersh•
IP 


In the case of Ernie Hughes, one year made a whole lot of difference. 
You see, Hughes started his Irish career back in 1974 as a defensive end. He was so good that he worked his way up to second team. 
But the graduation of that year's senior class took its toll on the Irish offensive line. So, when Dan Devine went looking for replace­ments there. he didn't have to look too far --just across the line of scrimmage. 
The 6-3. 248-pound junior made the transition just fine, starting all II games in 1975. but once again graduation took its toll on the Irish interior line. 
So when the Boise, Idaho native returned for spring drills this' season. he was the only experien­ced player back. 
Suddenly Hughes. who was probably looking to others for leadership in 1975, was the one being looked on as the leader. But it's a role 'Hughes has accepted without any fuss. 
"All my life." he says. "I've 
alwa~-~ looked up to the returning 
letterman for help and leadership. 
Now it's mv turn. I reallv want to 
help the yo~mgcr players. as best I 
can. 
"Experience is the most impor­
tant thing you can have. The 
techniques as you learn on the field 
and how you use them arc the 
kevs." 
Yet. when the Irish opened the 
current season with a 31-10 loss to 
Pittsburgh. a lot of the blame for 
the loss fell on the young line which 
Hughes leads. 
"Our timing was off against Pitt," Hughes admits. "It just seemed that when four of the guys did everything right, the other did something wrong and the play wouldn't work. We just (:Ouldn't get it together.·· 
But each week thereafter the line has improved. Five straight wins have followed since that opening loss. and in two of them --the 48-0 win at Northwestern and the 41-0 victory against Oregon --the line has allowed the Notre Dame back­field to amass over 500 yards in total offense. 
"We·re gctting better every game." Hughes continues. "but there's always room for improve­ment. We're gradually improving as a unit. but we have to keep at 
it. .. One pla~·cr Hughes believes must continue to show improve­ment is Hughes himself. a player already being mentioned for All­America honors. ·'I've always been blessed with quickness and-speed. I guess." Hughes says. "and if I can con­tinue to improve enough b~: the end of the year it would be nice to be an All-American. "But mv first concern is for the team to have a good season. Sure. we may have lost that first game. but we're coming together. I'd like to go to a bowl game. and one loss isn't going to take us out of the national championship picture. "I want to help the team tirst. Anything that comes after that will be icing on the cake." It was probably that unselfish attitude which made the transition from defense to offense easy for 
Cincinnati Reds turn down re-entry option on draft 
[continued from page 12) who has said he won't play in Milwaukee and Cleveland. and whose reported $3 million price tag may scare away some perspective shoppers. Also, some clubs might 
prefer t0 fill a weakness at pitcher. catcher or infield. 
The Expos can lead off with Jackson. or they gamble that his eligibility isn't exhausted when they pick in the second round. the 25th total selection. 
"We're very much interested in Mr. Jackson." Charlie Fox. the Expos' vice president in charge of baseball operations. said Wedncs­dav. 
Fox says the Expos have talked to manv of the other free agents, incl~ding top players__ Gary Mat­thews and Bert Campaneris. He says the Expos' board of directors plans to open its bank vault to 
attempt to land two of the free agents-the maximum number al­lowed most of the teams. Oakland. California and Baltimore could lost more than two free agent players and. thus. would be permitted to sign as many free agents as they lose. 
Hughes. 

"I guess it does affect a person." Hughes says of the move. "I always liked to play defense, and I wanted to play it at Notre Dame. I know I wanted to start as a sophomore. so when the opportu­nity came to move. I was willing to go." 
Hughes wasn't tot!llly a stranger to the offensive line. having played guard and tight end while in high school at Capital High School in Idaho. 
"But there aren't too manv similarities between high scho~l and college ball on the offensive line." he rctlccts. "It's more physical. intense and faster. 
"Techniques and offensive line blocking probably were the tough­est things to master. I had trouble staying low. too. Linemen have tendenc~· to get high, and that allows a defensive lineman to hit and keep ~·our feet moving." 
There \\Tre other problems Hughes had to overcome. "'on defense. ~-ou can be a lot more aggressive." he says. "On offense. vou ha\·e to stav under control. You ~-an't let erno.tions overrun vour 
b) Win Palmer Sports Writer 
In a pla~·off game for second place during the regular season Lyons Hall trounced Walsh Hall 2K-O and in a battle for the fourth and tina! playoff slot Badin Hall cruised past Breen-Phillips Hall 22-0. The actual playoffs will begin Frida\· evening at the astroturf ticld wit'1 games starting at 5:30 and 6:30. First place Lewis Hall (6-1) will go up against Walsh and second place Lyons (5-2! will take on Badin. 
L)·ons 28 Walsh 0 
Lyons went through a mid-season slump when they lost consecutive games to Lewis and Walsh. However, it appears that the team has straightened itself out as the~· have now won three games in a row including a season-ending 6-0 tri­umph over Lewis. During this span the defense has not given up a single point and in its last two games they have held scoreless the top two scoring teams in the league. 

bodv. You ha1·e a lot of things goi~g over in you mind like audibles. You've got to be more mentallv aware on offense than on defense.·· 
Still, Hughes doe~n 't mind get­ting aggressive on~:e in a while. particularly on punt returns and interceptions. 
"The punt teamgive you a chance to be different. he continue~. "I love to play aggressive ball. I like to run and tackle. When a ball is 
thrmn1.  I  always  look  in  that  
direction  and  run  in  case  it  is  
intercepted.··  

Last year against Air force. that 
happened while the lrbh 11 t . · trying to overcome a J0-1 0 ddit Hughes' aggressive nature help .I him he Johnnv-on-the-~rJOt. 
"Somehnw the hall popp .I loose," Hughes rL·membn~. "a .I I rcco\L"t"L'd 11. If the1 had ma tained po.,se~sion. 1\e probal wouldn't ha\L' been able 1<1 cn1 back.·· 
But L"OJlJL' bad. the lri~h did. a1 for his effort. Hu!..!lll'~ 11 a~ hnnor• that 11eck a,., otlcn~i\l· pla\lT oft" game. 
Hopl'full1. it II<JJJ.t Ill" thl" !;~­honor Ernie Hu!.!ht·~ rc·n·i1 c·~. 




%Observer 






Sports 
Lyons and Badin victorious in IH 
Lvons went ahead earlv in the ga.me as Sheila Seufert s~Tambkd in from 45 ~·ards for a touchdown. The extra point attempt \las no good. Sharon Lopez of L~·ons then picked off an Anne Eisele pass and several pla~·s later Michelle o·Har­en sL·ored on a revnsc that was good for 60 ~·ards. The score stood 12-0 at halftime as the extra point faill'd mwe again. 
Walsh had the kind of dav that can happen to anv team that relies heavih· on its passing game. Quarterback Anne Eisele, perhaps the best quarterback in the league. had her worst dav of the vcar as she had six of her ,;asses p.icked oil. Lvon~ took advantage of se\Tral Walsh turnmTrs to score twiL"L' in the sewnd half. Sheila Seufert scored her second and third touch­downs of the afternoon. one coming on a four-yard dive pia~· and the other on a 45-vard ramble. Each time Kathv McCann ran the extra point in and Lyons won easil~· 2K-O. 
Badin 22 Breen-Phillips 0 
Breen-Phillips was no match for Hadin a., one eight H-r' pia\ L'r~ ~IHII\l'd up for the conte~t. An injun carh in the fir~t half forn·d H-1' to pia\· the re~t of the galllL' 11 ith onh· ~L'\L'II pla\L'l"• in.,tcad of the prc~nibed eight. 
Badin .,,·,Ired carh in the lir.,t half a., .Iulie· \.ValtL·r~ ~cored on a ninc-\·ard run after an earlier touchdown had bc'l'll ,·alkd ba,·t­hccau"· of a pcnalt1. Diane Halliwell added the extra point. BrL'L'n-l'hillip~ then put on their onh dri\L' of the half but .luth· Bret intercepted a Kate Sarb pas., tn ~top the dri\l'. Badin scored latt•r in the half a., .Julie Walter~ picked up her -.econd toud~thm n of the day. thi~ one coming on a 24-\ ard run. The extra point was no good and the ~,-,,rc at half wa., 14-0. 
Badin iced the game carh in the second half when. after a pro­longed dri1c. Lisa Cotton S\H'Jlt in from live ~·a rd., out. Walters added the extra point. Hrel·n-Phillip~ refused to quit a., thL'\. managed to mmT the ball down to thl' Badin thrl'e-~·anl linl' late in the game. Howl'vl'r. thl' dri\'l' was thwarted and the B-P sl'ason had ended. 
< 
Notices 

Pandora's Books: has all used books on sate at one half off the renular price. These new books on sale for 25 percent off: Blind Ambition, Final Days, All the President's Men, Jimmy, I'll Never Lie to You, Why Not The Best? 
OVEREATERS ANONYMOUS in formation. Write P.O. Box 1265 Holy Cross Hall SMC 
Experienced [IUitartisl to teach be­[linners. Call Jamie in Lyons 7966. 
Now available at Pandora's Books: Blind Ambition by John Dean on sale now. 
Accurate, fast typin[l. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746 Hours: BAM to BPM. 
Desperately need a ride back to Notre Dame Saturday immediately after Navy-NO football name. Call Lisa 7933. ­
Will teach you flute in your spare time. For into. call Beth 8112. 
NO Club sponsors tour to USC.ND [lame plus one week in sunny Hawaii. Game ticket included. De­part Nov. 27 & return Dec. 6. $520.00 from Chica[lo. Call 1577 tor details. 
Seniors, NO L.Dst and Found Depart­ment has three class of 1973 h inh school rin[ls. Initials are FCW, jB and third from S. Francis Hinh. Describe and claim between 4-8 PM Mon.-Fri. in 109 Admin. Buildin[l. 
Tickets for the November 1t Chi­cago Stadium concert with The Eagles, featuring Joe W a Ish, and John David Soutler are now on sale at the River City Review ticket outlets: Just for the Record (1 00 Center! and Boogie Records (Col­lege Square). 
Hay Seniors! Don't miss the hayride this Thursday, Oct. 28. 9-1 a.m. Tix on sale in dining halls. Beer, dogs, bonfire and frolicking for all. 
For Rent 
RENT MY UPSTAIRS. $40 per month. Close to campus. Call 233-1329. 
LDst & Found 
To the blonde who"'JJicked up 2 [lirt hitchers Thurs. nile before Oct. break in front of Library bar. I lett my navy coat with plaid lining in your car. Please return. Call 6922. 
L.Dst or stolen from the corner of Napolean Blvd. & NO Ave. An Irish Setter puppy approx. 30 lbs., 4 mo. old. Answers to Shamus. Reward tor into leadin[l to discovery. HE IS MISSED!! Call Opie 232-2819. 
Wanted 
Need 2 Alabama t'fckets. Call Martha at 1715 or 2116. 
Need student or GA Barna tickets. Call 1487. 
Need 4 GA tickets tor Alabama football game. Have unlimited 
funds. Call Bob 146l. '  
Desperately need one ticket Alabama · Call Bill 8764.  to  
Need  1  to  3  student  tickets  tor  

Alabama or Miami. Frank 8705. 
Need 2 GA Barna tix desperately. Call 1785. AHention Northern New Jersey 

Classified Ads 
Need 2 Barna tix tor parents who 
never have been to an NO name. 
Mary 8125. ­
Alabama tix (2,3, or 5) will pay $25. Charlie 287 4931 (No ans. 1295). 
URGENT!! Need 2 Alabama GA's tonether!!MANIC Barna Hater will pay ABSOLUTE top $$$!! Call Dave 8528. 
BEER Free delivery and low prices. Chip 288 7878. 
Addressers wanted immediately! Work at home.. no experience nee essary -excellent pay. Write A mer~ can Service, Suite 132, Minne apolis, Mn. 55426. 
Need 2 or 4 Alabama tickets. Call Pe[l[ly4-4381. 
Need Alabama tickets! Will pay [IOOd price. Call Martha 4819. 
Need 2 GA Alabama tickets. Need not be to[lether. Call 289-1056. 
Need 1 GA Barna ticket. Tony 288-5675. 
Desperately need 2·4 Alabama tix anywhere in stadium. Will pay$$. Call Mike or Ann at 272-5884 after 7 p.m. 
3 GA tix needed tor Alabama name. Call Bob 255-8660. ­
Need Bama tickets. Will pay bi[l bucks. Call 234-8891. 
For Sale 
Kastle Skis · compound racin[l 175 em. Never used or drilled. 7160. 

BOOK SHOP. Used books. Students Paradise. Open Wed .• Sat., Sun 
9 7. Ralph Casperson Books. 1303 Buchanan Road. Niles, Mich. 683-2888. 
SNOW RARS tor sale: REMING TON G-7014's, 4 ply, studded; mounted on Chevy RALLY WHEELS. USED 1 SEASON by conservative accountin[l major. 
TERRY 288 2825. 
Aloe cosmetics. A wide variety or products. 4565. 
6 Navy fix a [IOOd buy. Call 1756 Chris or Mike 
Welcome back from break, kids' Hope you en joyed Boston, Naper ville (sick) (sic), Davenport, Mont. real. Conn., etc. G 
Yo there VRT '74, '75, '76 & '77. Can't believe you're a senior a[lain! Another year of Cokes. crazy ni[lhts and runnin[l around. Keep the van clean and your hair frizzed. Click. 
Who else? 
Good Work, Marcie! Congrats to you & Steve from the OBSERVER staff. Need 100 or so godparents? 
Happy Birthday Dear Becky, Happy Birthday to You. Son ot Gar 
Rock, t certainly hope you'll read the personals from now on ..alter all, now you're famous!! G 
Chriss, Cindy, Judy, Kathy, Linda, Madeline & Mary, Thanks for the party, flowers and tor comin[l to cappin[l Laurie 
Jeffy, t didn't know you knew RJG! G 
Deebles! Where are you??? 
WORKSHOP ~TARTS 7:00 P.M. NOVEMBER 1 AT 222 E. CRIPE ST. TO INQUIRE OR REGISTER CALL 1717. 
the world welcomes you, sarah elizabeth quehiS$ 
My writ1n'l staff has not returned from break (Will they ever??) so look lor the contmuin'l saCJas in next Monday's paper G 
JOB HUNTERS! HERE IS A CHANCE TO ENHANCE YOUR COMMUNICATION SKILLS FOR INTERVIEW lNG. A JOB INTER­VIEW SKILLS WORKSHOP STARTS 7 P.M. NOVEMBER 3 IN ROOM 400 ADMINISTRATION BUILDING. TO INQUIRE OR REGISTER CALL 1717. 
BAN & JBM TALK TO ME'' 
STUDENTS! BECOME MORE A WARE OF YOUR VALUES AND HOW THEY INFLUENCE IMPOR­TANT LIFE DECISIONS. A LIFE PLANNING, VALUES-CLARIFICA­TION WORKSHOP STARTS SAT­URDAY, OCTOBER 30 AT 9 AM IN THE COUNSELING CENTER. TO INQUIRE OR REGISTER CALL 1717. 
Barb. How is Rome? Just wanted you to know I'm th1nk•n'l about you Tell Rosie and sue I said h1 1 L.Dve, Kevin 
Twao. Better tuck next time with the porthole. L.Dve. Pris, Perv, Erwin. Minnie, Mo. MB 
Candace C. Carson can't cope. 
I'm so clever!' 
Bi[l kid, Good tuck in your openin[l [lame! L.Dve, Peanut 
JO, You're terrific!! Thank you. G 
... 

anyone have riders coming our for 1 pr. B. I. 6 Formula 6 speakers. 2 
MARRIED STUDENTS AT NOTRE
Greyhound Bus to Chica[lo leaves the Alabama game from NYC area months old. Askin[] S500. Call Bob Hans, John ana Tom "There'll be
DAME!! HERE'S AN OPPOR­
circle Friday at 4:45. Call Tom at who could take someone else, please 1382. dancinn in the streets" this week
TUNITY TO EXCHANGE EXPER­
8338 tor further into. contact Pete-1056. end. L...Ove. Twinkle Toes
IENCES AND EXPLORE ME­
MEXICAN BELTS: 'tines! leather 

THODS OF PARENTING. A
I'll type papers for you. Call 4565, Trick or Treat either -way tor 4 belts available. Only 510.00. Call Th-lh-that's all folks!!
PARETN-CHILD RELATIONS
BAMA tickets. Call Stan at 289-4740 "Big Money Murf" anytime at 
234-88 
.. 

-
-

_1_2___th___;__::.e--=o-=b=--s=-e-=-.::_r--'--v--=e'-r'-----'L•T:....:.h:....:.u:.:...rs:..:d::.::a~y, Oc!ober 2~_!___1976 

Irish injured contribute their share 

by Patrick Cole Rachal admitted. The training got Rachal talked about the cncour· Sports Writer monotonous; it was mentally tough agcmcnt he got from his friends. and physically tough." "My strongest encouragement has "I knew it would take a lot of been from students and players," l.uthn Bradley. Ro~!-. Browner, work." Rachal continued. "Com­he said. "Players like Restic, 
.Joe Rc~tic. Hick Slager. These arc ing back from a knee ligament Keven Hart. Bradley. Heavens who all name~ most Notre Dame foot­injury would be up to me. I arc also injured. and Hcimkreitcr. ball fan!-. know and hear every realized it was possible that I might They have helped me. The people Saturllav aftnnnon in the fall.. come back and possibly I might in the University arc the most 
Hut tr\ tht·!-.c: Doug Buth. Vince not." important factor. They're behind Klees. Mike Kafka. Gene Smith. Hachal was one of the most me and other injured players on the Vinn·nt Hachal. Mike Falash. or versatile athletes to come out of the team." Uick Hughc!-.. Arc these names , Houston area two years ago when Mr. and Mrs. Rachal. Vincent's familiar tn vou'! he graduated from St. Thomas parents. were at the game when he 
Pmbabl~· ;101. And this is the part High School. He competed in was injured. Vince's father. a of Notre Dame football the fans football playing safety. quarterback former coach. was concerned about lh>n't knnw. Thc-.e arc some of the and running back while captaining his knee injury. "But my father unknown plavers who arc lighting the football squad his senior year. was optimistic that I could work back courageou-.ly from injuries to In his last season at St. Thomas, he and come back on the leg." Vince pia\· once again. set a season record for intercep­stated. "My parents always en­
For example. take Vincent Rachal. tions. couraged me, and this helped a onL' of the most liked member'> on Naturallv. he was a choice on the · great deal." the team. Hachal. a freshman all-district. all-state and New However. the publicity that the dekn~iVL' back on Notre Dame's World and Coach and Athlete starting 22 members of the varsity. junior var-.itv team last year. was magazines' All-America teams. like the recognition he received in about to make his move to the l<achal als(J competed in basketball high school. doesn't bother Rachal. \ ar-.itv team. But one play stopped and track. He said that the fans arc obviouslv hi~ hope--at IL'ast temporarily. Rachal's knee has healed despite going to notice the ones who play .. N,'\'L'rt hell's-.. it would be very the odds that he would never be '·Some of the most respected disappointing for him. ahle again to play football. He players on the team arc seniors like 
Haehal came up to stop a sweep Junks at his knee and notes with Ed Gleckcr. Marvin Russell. and the best of it. A lot of players crs he is experiencing somethingaround his end. Just as he was amazement how, when the liga­Tom Unis." Rachal mentioned. 
ha\ ·~n 't played until their junior the fans don't read about in theabout to make the tatklc. he got ments were freshly torn in the "And they give 100 percent al­and senior year." Sunday papers or see on nationaldipped from behind. The result game against the· Northwestern though they arc not playing on Vincent Rachal is determined to television.
\\·as torn ligaments. an injury that JV's. the knee would bend side­Saturdav afternol!ns." 
come back. He has an added vear "I think you have to provecould have ended his career like ways like a hinge. Racha(, a management major, of eligibility. He knows it is u.p to yourself more." Rachal said. "Butother team members in the past. "Coming back is up to me," he would "like to play pro football like him. But he realizes like other I have to be patient and wait for my"I could limp off the field." the says over and over again. "The an~· other college player." But he injured Notre Dame football play-chance."
athiL'tc fwm Houston. Texas said. coaches were very helpful. They has additional plans for life. "When the~· took me in the locker were concerned after I got the cast "I don't like to think about pro room. they told me I would have to off.· just mainly how much I was football because I have to play have surgery." working on the leg." first." he emphasized. "My goal is 
Rachal ha-. the scar on hi-. knee Rachal said he was impressed to play now and complete my 
Irish peaking at right time 
from surgery that has become a how the coaches were concerned education." Rachal is interested in notoriou-. trademark ol manv about his leg and his future. not mas-; communications with the goal football pla~·crs. After -.ix week~ in how quick!~· he could be back in of hopefully one day going into by Gregory Solman "Dennis and I ran together for a cast. Rachal faced the difficult action. television as a broadcaster. Sports Writer the first four miles of the meet." ta'>k of rehabilitation. He said he "They (the trainers) didn't let me In his comeback. Rachal knows said Reinhart. "we encouraged and n.eedcd crutches after the cast was pia~· in the spring." Rachal pointed what he's up against. "I knew I hclpl:~ each other throughout the 
Last Friday's performance by both 
taken off despite the routine of out. "That's the whole thing I would have to compete." he said. race. \\Tights. whirlpool treatments cv­learned--patience. I'm sure that's "I knew I would be with a lot of the Notre Dame Varsity Cross­Junior Dan Horgan placed six­en·dav and isometrics. one of the hardest things when you great ballplayers. When you get country team and Captain Jim teenth in the meet. third man for 
Reinhart couldn't have come at a
,; I knew it would be tough." arc a competitor." your chance. you just try to make the Irish. and was backed up by 
better time, as the Irish placed teammates Kevin Kennv and Mark fourth out of nineteen competing Novak. who placed eigliteenth and teams in the Indiana State Meet. twenty-lift)l respectively. The meet was one of the major Indiana out-scored the field of ones of the year and the showing nineteen with 33 points. They were

Cincy passes on free agent draft 
was impressive. The strength followed by Ball State with 56. displayed by the Irish last week Purdue with 7o. Notre Dame with could indicate that the team is 90 and Taylor with 181.
NEW YOHK AP -The world think it would be right for the first year. 1969. 
peaking at precisely the right time, All Irish eves now turn to thechampion Cincinnati Reds. the Cincinnati club to get into the The National League won a coin just before the Central Collegiate Central Coliegiate Conferenceteam with the best record in bidding contests that must come flip. giving the Expos-55-107-the Conference Championships to be Championships. to be held thisba-.cball. said Wednesday they will out qf this draft.'' he said. first selection in the draft. The held this Saturday at Kent State. Saturday at Kent State University.
not participate in the Nov. 4 free "Nearly all of our players have leagues. picking in reverse order of Captain Jim Reinhart again came In Kent. Ohio.
agent re-entry draft. remained loyal to this organization this season's won-loss records. will up as the top man for the Irish. Jim Reinhart is looking forward toThe Hed~ already arc loaded with and we arc hopeful that we can alternate selections. 
placing fifth behind Bill Foley of the meet with great anticipation astalent. hut the Montreal Expos. maintain this relationship in the The Chicago White Sox will have Indiana. Jeff Shoemaker of Ball arc the other members of the Notrewho had the worst record in the future to our mutual advantage." the second choice. With Cincinnati State. Gary Nasnington of Indiana Dame Varsity. 
major leagues this season. will be Howsam added. passing. the New York Yankees and Jim Needler of Ball State. "We haven't seen the courselnoking to fill some big holes when Pitcher Don Gullett is the only now will move up to the 23rd Reina's time was 25:27 for the yet." commented Reinhart. "sothe.\· lead off the historic swcep­Cincinnati player among the 25 free position. although they still will five-mile course. just :39 seconds day early to
'>lakes for some of the best players agents. He wanted a five-year pick last in each round. we're going down a 
behind the winning pace, and jog around and get familiar within baseball. contract. but the Cincinnati organi­Whether slugger Reggie Jackson, remarkably good. considering the it."
Bob Howsam. president of the zation apparently felt a five-year the acknowledged cream of this difficulty of the course. The Irish send Reinhart. DennisIkds. dropped Wednesday's contract for Gullett would trigger year's crop of free agents, will be "I am very happy with the time VandcrKraats. Dan Horgan, Kevinbombshell. the same demands from the other available when the Yankees come and am pleased to have finished Kenny. Mark Novak. Fred Stepan .. In fairness to the players who stars on the team . to bat is questionable. 
fifth.' commented Reinhart, "con­and Joe Strohman to Kent Statehave won the world championship The Expos, however. don't have Teams ahead of the Yankees must sidering it is one..of the tougher Friday. Whether the course is tofor us two ~Tars in a row and with that problem. There are no real be pragmatic and decide whether courses we run on. their liking or not, it will be up toconsideration to the way our organ­stars on the 1976 team, which they can waste a choice on Jackson, Dennis VanderKraats was the sec­them to run the course well--inposted worst [continued on page 11]i;ation i!-. structured. we do not its record since its ond man for the Irish. Irish style. 

Ross Browner named AP lineman 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. AP-Notre against Pitt, the only team to beat quarters without allowing a touch­Dame's Ross Browner is the kind of the Irish in six games, Tony Dorsett down, there just can't be any player that makes the other team broke through the Irish line the individual stars," the 22-year-old change its offense, but it doesn't first time he touched the ball and Browner said. "Everyone on the 
seem to do any good. ran 61 yards. It was Browner, team has to be doing his job to 
"They try to run away from coming from the opposite end of accomplish that sort of defensive him," says Irish defensive coach the field, who ran Dorsett down, record.'' Joe Yonto, "yet, he makes tackles hurdling another player in the "Even the offense has to be on the other side of the field.'' process. doing well , because it makes it a 
Browner, a 6-foot-3 248-pound As fearsome and aggressive as lot easier for the defense when junior defensive end, was named he is on the field, Browner is they're controlling the ball."
a Associated Press national college remarkably mild and pleasant indi­"While it's a great thrill to beLineman of the Week for his play vidual, says Coach Dan Devine. 
lineman of the week, it's a reflec­
last Saturday against South Caro­

"He's definitely a playerteam tion on the way our whole team haslina. 
with an unbelievable attitude. 
played since our opening game.
His 11 tackles, including five for 

He's a tireless worker and not 
We're a young team, but we've
losses of 33 yards, and one fumble 

really interested in individual hon­been gaining confidence each
recovery gave him two Notre Dame 

ors." week. Right now we feel we can
career records. In three years, 

Browner, the eldest of three play with anyone. That's how
Browner has sacked opponents 48 

brothers from Warren, Ohio, play­much we feel we've improved.''
times for losses of 309 yards, 

ing at Notre Dame credits the bulk
including 17 times this season for Devine said Browner is ''just
of the Irish success to his team­
127 yards, and he has recovered ha'ving a great season. He hasn't 
mates.
nine fumbles. played a bad game yet.-He plays as In Notre Dame's season opener "When a team goes 20 straight well as anyone I've ever coached.·' 






