


server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XI, No. 40 Wednesday, November 3, 1976 
Carter garners 51 % ; ends Republican rule 
W A3HINGTON [AP] -Democrat him past the majority with 272 
Jimftw Carter defeated President electoral votes in The Associated 
Ford -and won the White House Press tabulation. 
early toriay, ending eight years of So the outsider, who began his Republican rule and crowning his campaign 22 months ago without long campaign out of the political visible means of political support, wilderness. became President-elect Carter. On The contest was close, a 3 Jan. 20, he will become the 39th percent margin in the popular vote, President of the United States, and but Carter gained clear command the first Deep South president 
in the electoral college, where elected since Zactrary Taylor in 
presidents are chosen. 1848. 
"We've made political history," Carter said as he left Plains, Ga., for Atlanta and a mass victory rally planned long in advance. 
And .. Ford was left to political history as the only appointed president. He came close, nar­rowed what had been a runaway Carter margin in the early polls. But the poll that counted was registerod on Tuesday. by an unexpectedly high turnout of. voters. 
With 86 percent of the nation's precincts tallied, their verdict read this way: 
Carter with 35,399,937 or 51 percent. 
The Democrats regained control of the Presidency as jimmy Carter was elected to the White HouseFord with 33,338,442 or 48 yesterday. The race was too close to call until nearly 4:00 this morning. [AP wirephoto] 
percent. Ir.dependent Eugene J. 
The contest drew a heavier-than­
PRESIDENT FORD McCarthy with 573,572 or one Bowen re-elected
expected voter turnout, and while
percent. 
that worked to Carter's advantage,
Georgia's Carter swept out of the 
the race was almost as close as had
~~~~ South, holding it almost solidly, 
Lugar wins Senate
been advertised.
and returning the region to the Democrats quickly certified their popular Gov. Otis R. Bowen, who
Democratic coJumn save for INDIANAPOLIS [AP] -As his
control of both Senate and House in smashed Larry A. Conrad to win
Virginia. That state went to Ford, television advertisements pro­
the 95th Congress. They were re-election.
the only crack he could manage in claimed, Richard Lugar's day has
assured at least the 62 votes they Hartke, who barely survived a

[81-[81
':=:"= : " Carter country. come.
hold in the current Senate, and difficult primary fight against Rep. 
To those electoral votes, Carter The 44-year-old Indianapolis
they appeared on the way to about Philip Hayes, was never really in
added border states, New York and mayor, already touted as a pro­
the same 290 to 145 margin by the running this time out.

[81 [81 
Pennsylvania. He captured Demo­spective Republican presidential
which they dominate the current His popularity was down. His
For the c,ratic strongholds like Massachu­candidate. swamped three-term
House. resources were limited. And he
setts and Rhode Island, and won in Sen. Vance Hartke last night,
But it was not a good night to be was meeting a popular Republican
the Minnesota home of his running capturing almost 60 percent of the 
IXIelectoral vote IXI an incumbent senator. Four on a night when the top of the GOP 
mate, Sen. Walter F. Mondale. vote in winning the Senate seat that 
Republican and four Democratic ticket swept the state.
He captured 23 states, led in two eluded him two years ago. At that 
senators had been defeated. It was the 57-year-old incum­
more. Among them, those 25 time, the former Rhodes scholar
fV1 breakdown IX) This was the national picture bent's first Joss after 21 years of
states have 342 electoral votes. and present-day college professor
with 86 percent of the precincts political victories, but he seemed to
Ford, strongest in the Midwest was defeated hy .Birch Bayh.
~see page 5 reporting: take it in stride.
and West, won 21 states, led in 
Ford won 21 states with 136 With 96 percent of the districts "That's the way things go." electoral votes and led in five states reporting, the totals were: Lugar Hartke told a defeated and sub­with 60 electoral votes. Carter won 1,211,895, Hartke 823,935. Lugar dued group of Democrats here. 22 states and the District of took his campaign to aJI 92 counties "The world didn't come to an end Columbia with 272 electoral votes throughout the state --and won 82 tonight." and led in two states --including of them. What did come to an end was California--with 70 electoral votes. It was the same kind of over­Hartke's political career. What 
Democrats won 21 of the 33 whelming victory he fashioned in began was Richard Lugar's long­Senate races and led in California. · the GOP primary last May when he anticipated career on the national Republicans won 10 races, and crushed former Gov. Edgar D. political scene. Independent Harry Byrd of Whitcomb. On Sunday, in surveying the Virginia was re-elected. Forty Lugar called it "a great Midwestern races, CBS' Dan Democrats and 27 Republicans are mandate" and said Hoosier voters Rather called Lugar "a future holdovers in the Senate, where 51 had cast their ballots for "more Republican superstar" and, in fact, seats comprise a majority. liberty, more freedom, a strong Lugar had been dubbed a pro­
In the 435 House races, Demo­America and reform." He pledged spective Republican presidential crats won 258 seats and led for 29, himself to work for each of those candidate during his days as mayor while Republicans took 125 races ends. of the Hoosier capital. 
-and were ahead in 23. It takes 218 His victory extended from During that time, former seats to forge a majority in the Vanderburgh County in the south-­President Richard M. Nixon called House. Harke's home base --to Marion Lugar his "favorite mayor." 
Democrats won nine of 14 gov­County in central Indiana --which He was a keynote speaker at the ernorship elections. Republicans he lost in 1974 --to Democratic St. 1972 Republican convention in captured five races. The terms of Joseph County up north. Miami in 1972, at which time 36 governors --29 Democrats, It was a show of electoral Marion County GOP leader Keith seven Republicans and an strength unsurpassed at the state Bulen promoted Lugar as an independent --did not expire this level in recent Indiana political i'lltemative to Spiro Agnew for vice year. history. _Luga~ eve_!! ran ahead of president. 



2 
the observer Wednesday, November 3, 1976 Placement workshops, socials 
News Briefs____.........,.. 
t=-=-=----==--==-==-=========================::::::::::World No new Cpncordes 
LONDON • Britain and France announced yesterday they have decided not ot build any more of the costly supersonic Concorde jetliners beyond the 16 planes already scheduled. The announcement was issued after talks between French Transport Minister Marcel Cavaille and British Industry Minister Gerald Kauf­man. 
::::::::::=====-==-:::::=-:::-:-===========National Helms to retire 
WASHINGTON· Richard Helms, former director of the Central Intelligence Agency, has decided to retire as ambassador to Iran, U.S. officials said yesterday. The 64-year-old_ Helm~ was named to the Tehran post in l973 and ts constdered one of the most influential ambassadors to have served in Iran. Helms will remain in office until the end of the year. 
On Campus Today ___,_,. 
9 am-3:30pm­10 am­5 pm-3:30pm ­
3:30pm­4 pm-
4:45pm­
5:15pm­
6:30pm­7 pm­
7 pm­
7, 9:15, 
11:30 pm 7:30pm 
7:30pm­
8 pm­
10 pm midnight­
_ 

book sale, annual fall book sale. o'shag. 
isis gallery, etchings. and drawings of ron shaefer 
seminar, "community energy systems approach to energy conservation," by dr. thomas marciniak, argonne national laboratories. rm 303, eng. bldg. 
computer course, "fortran," rm 115, computer science bldg. 
seminar, "recombination chemiluminescence," by viktor I. talroze, deputy director, institute of chemical physics, academy of sciences, u.s.s.r. conference rm, radiation research bldg. 
seminar, "liposomes: what they are and what they ' can do," by dr. charles f. kulpa, n.d. galvin aud. coffee at 4:15 
commemoration, 201st anniversary comn'lemoratio of the founding of the u.s. navy and marine corp with prof. james j. carberry, n.d. guest speaker. library auditorium 
mass, for all world hunger coalition tasters, wals chapel, everyone welcome 

seminar, "women in sales management," with carol collins (smc '74, humanistic studies) and greg weismantel, general foods, inc., chicago. rm 353 madeleva 
placement session, for graduate students, rm 317, admin building 
meeting, aiaa. films will be shown. aerospace bldg, rm 12 
film, "the wind and the lion," eng. aud. sponsbre by sailing club 
lecture, "crime and punishment in america," _b ·william geraway, director of boy's home, sequt_n wash. washington hall 
mandatory meeting, bag brothers, senior bar. all must attend, important business 
seminar, fr. Iaiiy speaks on r.a. application procedures. pop farley room, farley hall 
album hour, wsnd 640 am presents the strawbs latest release, "deep cuts" 
r*The Observerl 
Night Editor: Joe Bauer Asst. Night Editor: Frank Kebe, N.W. _ Layout Staff: Paula Carroll, Barb McGrath, Rosemary Mills, Editorial Layout: Chris\ Smith Features Layout: William S. Nichols, Confederate States of America Typists: Anne Giere, Mel Celeste, Martha Fanning Night Controller: Don Roos Day Editor: Joe Gill Copy Reader: Pat Cole Ad Layout: Pat Russell Photographer: Hansen 
l ) 




Services offered by GSU 
by Pete Newell Staff Reporter 

The Notre Dame Graduate Stu­dent Union (GSU) provides a variety of services and activities for the 1200 Notre Dame graduate students. 
In the past, the GSU has taken an active part in dealing with the problems of graduate students. A few years ago, according to Vice­president Mary Conklin, the GSU was involved in negotiations of pay increases for teaching assistants. 
Last year, Lewis Hall, formerly occupied by graduate students, was turned over 1to undergraduates. At the urging of the GSU, the new townhouses were constructed to provide more suitable living ar-j rangements for female graduate students. Conklin stated, "We've received a great deal of positive feedback concerning the town­houses and would like to thank everyone who was involved in getting them." 
This year, a primary project of the GSU is the renovation of the old Aquinas Bookstore at the entrance to the townhouses. The building now serves as the GSU Commons. The rooms on the upper floors of the house are now available to any academic department that wishes to rent them. The renovation of the 
Security check at 
lower level door 
in SMC library 
A Security Check has been inititated at the lower level door of the St. Mary's library. The entrance at the upper level will be closed for ordinary use. 
Students will be asked to present briefcases, books and periodicals to the checker at the door before they leave the library. 
The check has become necessary due to the increasing number of books missing from the library collections. 
The Observer is· published Monday through Friddy and weekly during the summer session, except during the exam and vacation periods The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary· s College Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser­ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Thanksgivin'~ with the Notre Dame Credit Union See NO-vs-So. Cal at LDs Angeles. ! 
Nov. 24 -Nov. 28 ­Complete trip: 4 nights and 5 days. 5275.00. For more info: _ 283'-6611' 
NOTICE 
Because of the need to better serve you during the Holiday Seasons, we suggest Airline reservations and tickets be confirmed two weeks prior to you departure date. This will enable us to honor your personal check. FIRST BANK TRAVEL ON CAMPUS 
BADIN HALL 283 -7080 
downtown south bend-across from the big hole 
Thursaay, November 4th THE NOTRE DAME JAZZ COM 80 This weekend November 5, Sugarfoot November 6, Kentucky Shore Plus late night Blues Jam\Aft ·r the festival 
basement or warehouse portion of the building, "is expected to be completed in about two weeks," 
. according to GSU President Jenni­fer Hughes.. A party is being planned to ce1ebrate the opening. Graduate students are advised-to watch for notices concerning this 
event. 

Both Hughes and Conklin ex­pressed their gratitude to Dr. Robert Gordon, president of the Graduate Concil and vice-president of advanced studies. Hughes added, "Dr. Gordon has been outstanding in making problems of graduate students known and wor­king with us to solve t~em." 
Currently the GSU offers many services and activities to the grad­uate student. A bail bond service is provided although, "fortunately it's never been used," according to Hughes. Each Saturday, before the football games, a beer social is held in the GSU Commons. 
This semester, the GSU is spon­soring a placement workshop. Representatives from bJisiness, in­dustry, the teaching profession and other fields have been invited to speak to graduate students. Topics will include career opportunities, interviewing techniques and other aspects ef job placement. The workshops will be held today at 7 
pm,  Thursday  at  12:15  pm  and  
every  Wednesday  at  12:15  pm  
throughout  the  semester  on  thb  

second floor of the LaFortune Student Center. 
The GSU also meets each Wed­nesday at 12:15 pm on the second floor of LaFortune. Department representatives and interested graduate students are encouraged to attend to discuss any problems they might have. 
As Hughes said, "We are repre­sented on all of the University committees, so we do have an effective means ofdealing with any problems the graduate student may have. At the very least, we will make sure that their views are heard. However, we have no way of knowing what those problems are unless we're told." 
Ex-offender Geraway backs capital punishment 
by Mary Ann Layden StaH Reporter 

Favoring the death penalty, al­though twice exposed to it himself, William Geraway will speak on crime and punishment in America tonight in Washington Hall at 7:30 p.m. 
The Student Union Academic Commission will present Geraway, who has faced the electric chair twice and spent half of his life in prisons in twelve states. 
Academic Commission Director Jerry Hoffman commented after speaking with Geraway, ''l-Ie is very conscientious, open and an­xious to come to Notre Dame and respond to students' questions. He brings with him his experiences with capital punishment and crime in America, issues which are in the forefront for us today." 
Geraway openly admits, "I have been involved in homicidal situa­tions, and I know that in certain 


BAMA 

narrow areas of criminal conduct there is no other answer except the death penaitr." 
He will also speak today in Professor Harold Moore's Philo­sophy of Law class and a course taught by Notre Dame law students at the Street Law Academy of South Bend, a high school program for youth who have had trouble with the law. 
• Critics from the University of California called Geraway "a man with a mission, a man whose present life is a message." 
On prison reform, Geraway stated, ''All rehabilitative proces­shtg must begin and end with the offender himself:'~:;· He ~t!llt!ves thaf true prison reform must begin with the channeling of money to juvenile programming and facili­ties. 
ALL NEW 
Delicious 

ltafian Foods 
Elegant Atmosphere Cocktails 

TIX!! 

Could you use two G.A. tickets 
to the ND-Alabama game?? 
Here's how you can get them absoluteiy 
FREE!! 
1) Be the St. Mary's student ·who has the best idea for a theme for the dedication of the new athletic building (set for sometime this spring). Give us a hint as to how you would develop this theme for a SUPER celebration. 
2) Submit this idea to P.O. Box 1677 or room 308 McCandless. We must have the written suggestion in our hands by Noon, Thursday, Nov. 4. 
QUESTIONS: 


At last night's Hall Presidents counch meeting, a proposal calling for the installation of campus laundry machines, WSND censorship, and other topics we.re discussed. [Photo by leo Hansen] 

Vaccination times at SMC rescheduled for Dec. 1 
the flu vaccine. Te generalby Lucy McVay consensus is that the Indiana areaStaff Reporter 
hasn't been greatly affected. Maureen Cogan, a St. Mary'-s student, said that she would beThe innoculation of the swine flu 
getting the vaccine because shevaccine previously set for October trusts the doctor's words more thathas been rescheduled for W ednes­the rumors that may be circulatingday, Dec. 1. 
around campus.
Distribution of the vaccine will Although there has been somebe given at the SMC Clubhouse scares about the flu vaccine, thefrom 8 pm to 1 pm. The designated_ general response has been good.
time for faculty, administration and 
This is one reason why the St.
staff is 8 am to 10 am. students 
Mary's Health Service had towill be innoculated between the reschedule the distribution of thehours of 10 am to 1 pm. Verna vaccine.
Wood, director of the SMC Health Wood e~plained that a certain
Service, stated that the vaccine is amount is allocated to each areafor everyone and Notre Dame and the response was greater thanstudents who haven't received the the supply.
vaccine are able to receive it now. 
Wednesday, November 3, 1976 
the observer 

HPC considers laundry proposal 
byTomByme Senior Staff Reporter 
Student Government Executive Coordinator Ken Girouard present­ed the preliminary laundry propo­sal to the Hall Presidents Council (HPC) meeting last night explain­
. ing that it will be considered by the 
officers of the University at their 
upcoming meeting. 
Girouard also distributed a letter from Student Government Special Projects Coordinator Tom Soma, who helped draft the measure, expressing his gratitude to the HPC for their aid in assessing student opinion on the matter. 
Tile proposal calls for the instal­lation of 12 to 15 washers and dryers in one central location on campus, for the use of all male students. Describing the move as a "necessary supplement" to exist­ing facilities, the proposal charges that male students are forced to pay "exorbitant amounts" beyond the $2.60 allotted each week. The inability of the laundry to service certain materials such as silk was also noted as a deficiency, as well as the sometimes inconvenient time schedule. 
"There's room down • in the Rathskellar. off to the side," remarked Girouard. "What we're waiting on is just themeeting of the officers of the University." He added that the officers. the presi­dent, provost, and various vice­presidents, should not be confused with the board of trustees. 
WSND censorship discussed 
Dom Fanue\e, station manager of WSND addressed the council on the recent controversy surrounding with the AM station," he said. "We're carrying home hockey games on AM anyway. We can't afford to carry the away games though." 
the  suspension  of  broadcasts  of  
away hockey games.  
"The  issue  has  nothing  to  do  

Fanuele explained that when it became apparent this fall that no commercial station would be carry­ing the away games, the "feeling at the station was pretty much in favor of carrying hockey." 
"On Oct. 1, I received a letter from the University requesting that we don't carry hockey," he con­tinued. "The station management considered the request according to Fanuele, and decided to continue their broadcasts despite the letter. However, a week later a WSND staff member was told by Fr. Terry Lally, asst. vice-president for stu­dent affairs, that their funds would be reduced for next year if they did not reconsider their decision. 
Fanuele argued before the coun­cil that the station should be allowed to make its own policy. "We had our license renewed in August by the FCC," he noted. "Had hockey violated the purpose of our station, to provide fine arts programming, they would not have renewed our license," he stated. 
"We plan to submit an extensive report on how we reached our decision to demonstrate that we don't need outside help." he said. adding that the University's action was contrary to the student media policy outlined in du lac. 
"What we're trying to do is establish our autonomy," con­cluded Fanuele. "We would hope a!> a compromise to be able to do the playoffs." 
Budget revision blocked 

In other business, the HPC considered a resolution proposed by Dillon Hall President Tom O'Neill intended to affect disburse­ment of funds to the halls for next year. The measure, rejected by a vote of 13-4, would have distri­buted the hall improvement funds equally between the halls. 
Arguing for the proposal, O'Neill described the procedure used this year as "a group of people subjec­tively determining the need of another hall." 
Farley President Tracy Kee pre­sented to the council a report on difficulties surrounding the 8 a.m. departmental examination policy. Compiled by Kee and Farley Academic Commissioner Nancv Cox in coordination with Studer{t Body President Mike Gassman, the report proposes that an attitude survey be made to assess senti­ment abou( the policy. Those wishing to comment about some aspect of the te~ting policy should 
[continued on page 6I 
need resumes in a hurry? 
•
•nsly·pr•nls 
• 
the wiz of the print~ biz! 

rag bond 25-81/2 X 11 $2.55 
203 N. Main So.Bend 289-697 
The distribution is under the direction of the St. Joseph's County 
We want men and women 
Health Department, since St.. 

·ROCCO.'S
Mary's is under the jurisdiction of 
with engineering
BARBERS & HAIRSTYLIST.S 0 Some questions have been raised 
the South Bend area. 
FULL SERVICE ~ 
or other technical degrees
about the possible side effects of 
-~QNISEXSHOP~ 
~0 

... for careers in
FAST 
.s-.,.., Cc ~~·~o
..., -­

steel operations, shipbuilding, 
TYPEWRITER 
....... _, 0 
z>all

REPAIR 
.....9~~ ,c.~. ., ;::! ffi ~o 


engineering, sales, mining, 
"'> ~..~ \5'"' w
..JIll 

and research. Opportunities for accounting graduates, too. 
Our Loop Course recruiters 

will be here on 
I 

The Boar's Head is auditioning 1 &2 piece ·groups for our cocktail lounge hours of 


Nov. 15,16, 1976 
entertainment run 8:00 pm to_1 :OOam Tue~ thru Sat (soft rock & guitar & yocal) Apply in person for appt. between 2-4 pm 
Mon thru Fri Ask for Jim Painter-manager 

Let's talk about it. 
The Student Players & NO Social Commission presents: 
Jacques Brei Is Alive And Well And living In Paris by Blau and Shuman, Music Bv Jacques Brei 
At LaFortune Rathskellar, ThA Nazz Nov. 5 & 6 admission: $1.00 


Bethlehem~
time: 8:30pm 
an equal opportunity employer 



·~------~-----­

iiiiiii P.O.Box Q--. one hand, and Fr. Green can attest western Football Team in his to this point. recent, viscious attack hope he Also, Bob Tracey-should rethink feels much better since he was able his statement, "The entire group to find a quotation that defendedSorin seven met with the hall staff on one his bias. (Ten points for Chip!) >ear EdJtor: occasion." Had he taken roll he However, he should have noted in would have realized that I for one his latest attack that Northwestern 
It was my original intention to was not present. I would like to see dld score a touchdown against ·emain silent during the entire this mess straightened out as Michigan. 1roceedings dealing with myself quickly as possible, but first let's The question that keeps coming md my six roommates. But now I get the facts straight. up in my mind is why the "Chip" eel rmust speak out in relation to on his shoulder when it comes to he supposed warnings given PatrlckJ.~urnane Northwestern? Maybe their foot­nyself as a member of the group. ball team could teach him a thing or 
I was not once given a warning as two about sportsmanship or maybe :o disciplinary consequences that their school of journalism could
Chip Spina 

night result from our actions, right Dear Editor: teach him to exclude personal lr wrong as they may be. I can prejudices from his writing. :ount the number of times I have All of those who feel Chip Spina ;een my ex-rector on the fingers of did an injustice to the North-Elizabeth Rooney 
0 
-C: 
......
·-­
0 
opinion~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Human rights rule abortion iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiishe iIa juIien 
I am writing in response to a medicine make the child less We in the United States have one 
letter that appeared in The human? To determine if the child Basic right: the right to our own 
Observer October 26 from Paul is "human" by the capabilities of life. Although we also maintain 
Herbig. I think that he has a little science is clearly unfair because in many other important rights that 
more in common with many sup­a poorer area with medical facilities should not be infringed upon, the 
porters of Pro-Life that he realizes the child would have been granted right to one's own life is primary. 
You have a valid and important its "humanity" and right to live What is someone's "pursuit of 
point, Mr. Herbig. A woman's much later than in a sophisticated happiness" or right to privacy 
body belongs to her. A woman's city hospital. involves taking away another's ­
life is her own. But such rights In deciding arbitrarily that a life? One right must be curtailed to 
should also be accorded every child is not "human" before three safeguare the other, and the right 
human being. The child also has months of age, the Supreme Court to life comes first. And all of us, 
rights to its body and its life and overstepped their function. They being equal, are entitled to equal 
these rights are being neglected. have never been granted the power protection, regardless of race, re­
From the moment of conception, to decide that any minority is "not ligion, sex, economic condition or 
life is present in the uterus. The human" and nor entitled to protec­age. Does a new human life have 
question is: when is it human life tion for life. That is a very less value than any other? 
and therefofe fully entitled to dangerous power for nine men to The courts profess to protect 
protection by the law? Today's presume to wield. The amendment these rights. But in the abortion 
scientific capabilities can find abso­is needed to clarify the right of a issue there has been "an ex­
lutely notUng that is added to the child to its own life. ception". And this has slighted 
mfant from conception to birth or (And it was the presidency that our most basic human right, the 
even until natural death other than selected those nine men, Mr. right to life. The unborn infant is a 
natural, steady growth. There is no Herbig. Perhaps you under­minority who cannot protect itself. 
magic between con­estimate the full power and influ­And in such a case , we who can 
,·cption and birth that suddenly ence of that office.) speak out must do so. 
makes the child "human". The As clearly as the woman has a Perhaps you used the word 
unbt>rn child will inevitably become right to her body she does not have morality when you meant ''re­
just as obviously human as any of the right to injure or destroy the life ligion". But it is not the Catholic 
us, given only time and nourish­and body of any other human or Protestant Churches that contain 
ment. And because there is never being. And that is exactly what the Bill of Rights, but the govern­
any point in the development that a abortion, the ''termination of preg­ment. Abortion is an important 
major change or addition occurs, nancy" involves. issue in our society and legal 
from the very beginning of life its' You stated again and again in system, not based on religion, but 
rights should be ·protected. your letter that abortion is a moral on a plain and simple human right: 
There are arguments that until a issue. How can that be denied? the right to live. 
:hild can live outside the uterus, it But I don't think there's ever been So, Mr. Herbig and I are ·:s part of the mother's body and any conscious effort to keep moral­basically arguing the same point: ;;he can do as she likes with it. It is ity out of the government. Fortu­human rights. But in this case the true that at the present a three­nately the Bill of Rights are right of the woman to her privacy month old child could not survive included in our Constitution and infringes upoin the infant's right to outside the womb, because medical they provide a bit of morality by his very life. One right must take 
science is not capable of caring for which our government is obliged to precedence over the other. Which it, yet. But does the inefficiency of govern. right is more precious? 
WASHINGTON ··. , Something terrible happened in Washington last week. The federal government discovered that it was unable to spend $15 billion it had been authorized to use in the 1976 budget. Now most of the taxpayers would call such a happening a "windfall," but government econ­omists call it a "shortfall" and a are very distressed about it. Some officials predict that, if the "short­fall" continues until the end of the year. the bureaucracy may wind up with a $20 billion "surplus" which could destroy the credibility of the Office of Management and Budget, the Treasury and the White House, and put the economy in a slump. Worse, it could give government spending a bad name. 
No one has been able to come up with an explanation as to why the government has been so lax in not using up the money allotted to it. 
To find the answer I sought out my favorite government bureau­crat, Plotkin. He had just received a directive from the Office of Management and Budget that if his agency did not spend a billion dollars by January I, Plotkin would receive a reprimand in his civil service record book. 
He was drinking a bottle of Pepto Bismol when I walked in his office. 
"What happened?" I asked him. 

Plotkin looked at me. "I don't know what happened. When I made up my budget for 1976 I added an extra half-billion dollars because I was assured by my peopl_e that Congress would cut it out. Instead of cutting it, they voted to increase it by half a billion dollars. So I wound up with a billion dollars more than I needed." 
"I would think that would make you happy." 
"Have you ever tried to spend a billion dollars in two months:" "I haven't," I admitted. "But my wife has." 
The phone rang and Plotkin pfcked it up. "How many paper shredders did you buy? 1,000. What price? !75 each. Couldn't you get any for $250. Okay, buy them." He hung up. "A lousy $75,000 for paper shre-Her" The trouble with this agency is nobody thinks big. I told them to think of some $30 million and $50 million projects that we could fund immed­iately, and they come up with paper shredders.'· He took another shot of Pepto Bismol. 
"You do have a problem, ·• I admitted. "Why don't you build a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier?" 
"That isn't my department. I'm in charge of Asphalt Safety and Quarry Inspection. I have to spend the money in these areas. Besides the Pentagon has underspent its budget by $5 billion and they're in more trouble than I am." 
"Why don't you construct a new building?" I suggested. 
"We're already constructing a new building," Plotkin replied. "But it's only going to cost $150 million." ' 
"Maybe you could order a new 747 airplane to .take you to regional meetings around the country." 
"I thought of that, but OMB turned me down. They said it would look bad for the head of the Asphalt and Quarry Agency to fly in a bigger plane than the Presi­degt of the United States. There's one idea that could save me. I'm thinking of building an asphalt pipeline from Alaska to Detroit. We could ship the asphalt by pipe instead of by ship and save the country millions of dollars." 
"I didn't know Alaska had asphalt." 
"It doesn't, dummy. The pipe­line would ship the asphalt to Alaska." 
''That should cost a billion dollars," I agr~d. 
Plotkin's secretary walked in. "There's are ~ix Brink's trucks downstairs with $200 million cash in them. The drivers want to know where they should put it." 
Plotkin screamed, "I don't know have any more room for money. My warehouses are full. Tell them to take it back to the Treaury." 
The secretary said, ''Treasury won't take it. They have to get rid of $3 billion by Christmas and if you don't take the money the drivers have orders to dump it on your lawn." 

r
I 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Phones: (219) 283-8661 [NO)
*The Observer 
(219) 284-5365 [SMC]

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of EDITORIAL BOARD Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported Dan Sanchez Managing Editor as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed. represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Gregg Bangs Executive Editor Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their Val Zurblis Executive Editor authors Column space is available to all members of the Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor community, and [etters are encouraged to promote the free Bob Mader Exec. News Editor Pxpress1on of varying opinions on campus. Maureen Flynn Campus Editor 
Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor
Business Manager Tom Fronczak Don Reimer Copy EditorAdvertising Manager Mike Miller Tim O'Reiley Features EditorPhoto Editor Tony Chifari Fred Herbst Sports EditorProduction Manager Martha L. Fanning 
Wednesday, November 3, 1976 
L 
...-Doonesbury-..... 
----------~----~-~­

•"., 
' .' 

I 
I 

I 
I 
-.. 
/W lon~o1udeW••' oiGf.,.,nwo<~ 
I
.GJ 
I 
11' 
/IJ'­
L__. 
Mlln /JH< 
Carter-272 
WIS. II 
''Q., '' 
PA. 27 MD. 10 D.C. 3 DEL 3 
R.I. 4 
FlA. 17 
N.Y. 41 
N.C. 13 
S.C. S MISS. 7 
AlA. 9 
GA. 12 KY. 9 
W.VA. 6 
MASS. 14 ARK. 6 MINN. 10 LA. 10 TEX. 26 
HAW. 4 
I:JECJ. 
Cot.o 
I 
N.AtEx 
~ 
~I 
HAIL rt>' "' 
~~ 

••~, Mtleo .,.
' 



Is this any way to run an ele~ction ??? 
As it has been mentioned during the Bicentennial, the Revolutionary War was fought by freedom-loving Americans against the nasty, tea-taxing English. The Spirit of '76 symbolized the fight of the common man for his political rights against the fat aristocracy. When it came time to write the Constitution, the Founding Fathers true to this spirit included numer­ous protections for the citizens. But when it came to their own jobs, the Fathers decided that someone besides Mr. Citizen should hold the strings. 
Thus the Electoral College was born. The Constitution embodied a system, where the voter would not directly vote for President, but rather for an elector from his district. This man was supposed to be onf· of the fancy folks of the community (the "natural aristocracy" in Jefferson's terms), who would go to Washington to make an "educated" choice as to whom the President should be. Therefore, people voted for the character of the elector as much as for the Presidential candidate, who did none of the smiling and hand­shaking that he does today. 
Basically elections still work the same way. When the voter flips the lever or marks the ballots,he does not do it for the person or the candidate, but for the slate of electors pledged to that candidate. That slate then goes through the formality of electing the President sometime after the election. 
One little-noticed quirk of the system is the commitment of the elector is only a formality, not a legality. Should an elector change his mind (as happened as recently as 1968), he is perfectly free to vote for someone other than the candidate who carri·ed that state. This joker in the deck has not yet changed the outcome of an election, but there's always the first time. 
Most often critics of the system point out that a candidate could win the popular vote, yet still lose the Presidency in the electoral college. This has happened, as rece111tly as :888, when Indiana's own Benjamin Harr;son lost by 100,000 popular votes, yet took the White House by about 70 e!lectoral votes. Close calls occurred in 1960 and 1968, but Kennedy and Nixon wou111d up winning both the popular and electoral votes in those years. 
·We now have a system that can not only thwart the popular will, but is not even a national election. Campaign strategists see it as a series of state elections, a bloc of votes needed to reach the magic number of 
270. From this spawned the Southern strategies, or the "Rte. 80 Belt." This is why candidates hit the Northeast or California to shore up support, while ignoring Nevada or New Hampshire after the primaries. Any good politician goes afte:r the votes that count the most. 
If the electoral college is imbued with these anti-democratic evils, why isn't it changed. First of all, not a great miscarriage of the system has occurred lately to scare politicans into action. (fear is a great motivator in politics). Also, the big states get a good deal from the system as far as money, promises and attention go. Why change a good thing? 
Incongruous as it may be, we are stuck with this system for this election and probably many to come. It keeps the candidates jetting around the country in almost spastic fashion. And somehow, it has thus far worked. 
g-cA~TER 
1[J-Fo-Rl) 
~-UN~\b6t>'r' A\ ~~u~ 
-._,1\M~ 
Ford-162 
AlASKA 3 
OKLA. S 
KANS. 7 
UTAH 4 
ARIZ. 6 COLO. 7 
WASH. 9 
\ 
N.MEX. 4 VT. 3 IDAHO 4 MONT. 4 WYO. 3 N.DAK. 3 NEB. 5 
S. DAK. 4 
VA. 12 IND. 13 
N.J. 17 CONN. S IOWA S 
Ill. 26 N.H. 4 
??????? 
ME.  4  ORE.  6  
CALIF. 45  NEV.  3  
MICH. 21  OHIO  25  

----------------------------------------~------~------------­
Wednesday, November 3, 1976

the observer
6 
SMC summer program combines fun, learning 
One of the major aspects of the and everyone who possibly can go by Karen Ann Zaleckl Summer Abroad program was that on the program should go." Sh~ 
Staff Reporter it enabled the students to learn added that the trip gave her a "real about the cultures of different appreciation of home." countries. Patti Thorner, a St. A number of participants in the 
The St. Mary's Summer Program Mary's sophomore who went on the program commented that they in Europe ended the myth that program last year, said the London appreciated seeing the different "fun and learning don't mix." program made her not only aware life-styles because it made them 
Going to Europe on the program but also respect the other cul­aware of how good they have it in 
enabled students to see Europe tures." America. • Callahan commented and learn about the historical Cynthia Callahan added, "It was that she was really glad to be significance of what they saw. worth seeing everything in Europ~ American and that she wouldn't 
Majority rate Observer as 'good' 
[continued from page 3] contact Kee. Cox, Gassman or ,. Student Government Academic 
Commissioner Pat Tack. 
The council also received the rc.,ult., of their survey on The Obscncr from Ombudsman Direc­tor Bridgett O'Donnell. HPC Chairman J. P. Russell called the survey "very poor." citing low student response and inadequate que.,tions. 
"As far as the survey being an efficient judge of the newspaper. I don't think· we can say that," commented Russell. 
Taken last spring, the survey reveals that 52.77 perc~;nt of the 
Voting takes 
top priority 
COLUMBUS, Ind. (AP) -Paulette Proffitt was determined to vote for President Ford yesterday and no­thing was going to stand in her wav--not even the birth of her first chiid. 
Proffitt, 23, of Columbus, gave birth to 7-pound, 13-ounce Jessica Michelle shortly before midnight Monday at Bartholomew County Hospital here. After the baby's 10 am feeding Tuesday. Mrs. Proffitt left for the polls and was back in her hospital bed by noon. 
"Well. I tell you, since I turned 18 and I had the privilege to vote. I just thought it was something I couldn't pass up." she said. 
She got "absolutely no trouble" from the nurses when she told them she was leaving to vote. 
'They gave me a lot of help," she said. 
American Scene lecture cancelled 
The American Scene lecture "Diagnosing Student Needs Insti­tute for Renewal Improving Teach­ing'' scheduled for tonight has been cancelled. 

respondents give the newspaper an "over;~ll" rating of "good." Of the various departments of The Obser· ver, varsity sports drew the highest rating with 86 percent describing the coverage as "good" or "very good." The results indicated that the paper's most inadequate cover­age was of events in the South Bend area. 
Student Union Special Projects Coordinator Charlie Moran dis­closed that 64 courses will be taught by the Free University to begin next semester. ''The scope of them is from unbelieveably philosophical to unbelieveably base," Moran remarked, describ­ing the courses. He added that registration for the courses will be held on Nov. 18 and 19. 
Moran also revealed that. Dr, Benjamin Spock will speak on Dec. 6, followed on the next day by an appearance by actor· Leonard Nimoy in Stepan Center. 
In additional matters, the council 


women can enter a world of responsibility and authority almost immediately after graduation ... through the Marine Corps Officer Candidates Class. From OCC, men and women move quickly into a wide variety of interesting, rewarding, and challenging fields, including aviation. 
learn how to lead. learn how to lead the best-United States Marines. See your Marine representative. 
The Marines are looking for a few good men. 
ON CAMPUS-OFFICER SELECTION TEAM LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 9 A.M. 
TO 4 P.M., NOV. 2-5 
heard from Mike Richter of the Student Union, who proposed the initiation of an aluminum recycling program. Several halls agreed to try the idea on an experimental basis. 
Doobie 's tix still available 
Concert Commissioner Jim 
Speier announced that all remain­
ing tickets for the Doobie Brothers 
concert have been taken to the ACC 
and the Student Union Ticket 
Office. 
Unsold tiCkets from city outlets were brought to the two locations to enable students wanting to go tc the concert to have a chance to purchase tickets. 
Speier commented that the con­cert is not sold out at this time and those who were discourgaged by the long ticket lines still have a chance 
to see the show. 
want to be anything else. 

• Sr. Eva Hooker, associate pro­fessor of English at St. Mary's went on the program last summer and she added "It gave the students a chance to explore a totally different environment. Many students did not realize how different lifestyles are in Europe." 
When asked what they enjoyed most about the program most of the participants could not name just one place. Most students enjoyed the whole trip, and no single place was their favorite because all the countries were different. One stu­dent commented "All of Europe is beautiful it's hard to compare them." 
Barbara Ann Roe, a St. Mary's student said "Each place was unique but if I had to pick a favorite place it would have to be Switzer­land. The countryside is gorgeous. Venice was also interesting be­cause the city is surroundM by water." 
All the students believed the trip was a learning expenem:t: HJr them. The students had an oppor­tunity to see things that they had studied. They felt they had learned more about Europe seeing it first­hand than they could by reading 

about it. 

For most of the students a highlight of the trip was eating dinner in an Irish manor, where they were to enjoy thedelicacies of a medieval dinner. However, a few unforeseen problems arose on the way to the dinner. As one student put it, "First the bus broke down and we had to walk to the manor. We had to walk through a cow pasture to get there and when we finally arrived we were-so hungry we practically inhaled the food." 
The program is open to all St. Mary's and Notre Dame students as well as students from other universities For further informa­tion about the program contact Professor Anthony Black at 368 Madeleva or by phone at 4-4948 

Opening soon, is now accepting applications from neat, well-groomed individuals. Positions available: hosts, hostesses, waitresses, wait­ers, bartenders, service assistants. cooks and dishwashers. 
52554 US 31 North 277-3766 
Equal Opportunity Employer 
7&7's , Gin & Tonics Rum & Cokes, Screwdrivers $.50 
Ladies and Gents, Remember to catch the 3 Stooges on TV here 
Wednesday, November 3, 1976 
the observer

Lower house approves 366-4 
'Dictatorial' bill destined for passage in India 
by Paul Chutkow Associated Press Writer 
NEW DELID, India (AP) -A constitutional amendment giving Prim'e Minister Indira Gandhi's government sweeping.authority to remold this nation of 610 million people was approved yesterday by the lower house of Parliament. 
The amendment, which the gov­ernment says will speed a socio­economic revolution and the oppos­ition says will legitimize dictator­ship, was approved 366-4, with most opposition lawmakers of the 523-member house boycotting in protest. . 
·'This bill will open the flood gates to regimentation and dicta­torship," charged P.F. Mavalan­ikar, one of the few dissenting independents still sitting with members of the ruling Congress party majority and its allies in the Communist party. 
'God will not forgive the sin you are about to commit," he told the special legislative session climax­ing weeks of debate on the consti­tutional amendment. "Though you are in a large majority, you are not sustained by morality." 
Speaking for the government, Law Minister H.R. Gokhale chas­tized ''the very rigid and backward­looking" opponents of the bill for trying to block consolidation ofthe gains he said have resulted from India's 16-month-long state of emergency. 
With Gandhi in attendance, Gok­hale said the measure puts beyond doubt "the supremacy of Parlia­ment...and keeps law in tune with society, with the people at large." 
Replying to opposition charges that this was Parliament's 'darkest hour," the law minister said it was Parliame'ut' s "finest hour." 
The amendment, which rewrites the preamble and 59 clauses of India's 26-yer-old democratic char­ter goes to the upper house next 
Social Commission & 
Holy Cross Hall 
present 
SECOND CITY 
Sat. Nov. 6--7:30pm O'Laughlin Auditorium $1.;50--Students & Faculty $2.50--General Admission 
Ticket sales begin MONDAY and are available through SMC Programming Office, 4176 
NOTICES.
-------------'--­
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-$150. 1 Day wait. 1 per cent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune basement. M-F 11:15-12:15 
Experienced guitarist to teach be­
ginners. Call Jamie in Lyons 7966 
Accurate, Fast Typing. Mrs Donoho 
232-0746 
Hours: 8 am to 8 pm 
TICKETS FOR THE November 11 Chicago Stadium Concert with the Eagles, featuring Joe Walsh and John David Soutler are now on sale at the River City Review Ticket Outlets: Just for the Record (1 oo Center) and Boogie Records (Col­lege Square(. 
I'II type papers for you 4565 
Due to the time change the Grey­hound will now leave the Main Circle at 5:45 every Friday. Call Tom at 8338 for seat reservations and further info. 
Anyone interested in starting an Asian-American club call Craig at 8693 
Gay Hotline: Friday and Saturday, 10:00 to 12.,:00 p.m. 283-8870 
G.C.N.D. P.O. Box206 Notre DAme 
Typing -$.35 a page. Call Dan 272-5549 
HAVING A KEGGER? For free beer delivery and low prices call Chip 288-7878 
Bridge Group 
Interested in playi'ng Bridge? Call 
Vini 288-7878 or Jay 8431 
FO-R RENT 
3-Room Apt. Everything furnished $100 per month. Call 288-9533 
RENT MY UPSTAIRS $40 per month. Close to Campus. Call 233-1329 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: Six keys on a kilt pin, if found _ call 7607 any time, Reward 
To the bstd who stole Calif liscense plilte 565 JMV I wnat it back!· Call 1747 
Lost: Nickies parking lot "Borrow­ers" of my gym bag and back pack please return to 717 St. Louis Blvd 233-3743 
Lost -to the graduate business student who picked up the hltcher to the Libary Thurs. night. I lett my calculator in you car (SR-SOA) 
____________.....__
Please return. Call 233-4222 Lost: Sterling Silver cross and drain at CCE or Cartier fields. Present from HTH Reward. DO.C. 1150 
Lost: Camet hair jacket at Mor­risey's Campus View party last Saturday night. Call Shannon 5150 Reward. 
WANTED 

Need 2 G.A. Alabama tickets. Call Martha at 1715 or 2116 
Please! Need a ride to Georgia Tech. Call Jeanne 4-4347 
One set dress-blues, Jacket 36, Pants 30-32 272-2932 after 6 PM. 
Foxy SMC Chick needs 2 Chicago tix for herself and foxy friend from out of town. Decent padded or Center Bleacher. Call Mar 4397 
Heeellpp! Our friends will hang us by our toes and tickle us to death if we do not get Miami and Alabama tickets. We don't need a good laugh. Call Terri or D. Kane at 7853 
PLEASE!! 1 deserately neea one Alabama fix! Call Dave 1010 
Notre Dame 35 Alabama 0 
Tom Clements, Wayne Bu flock and Greg Collins need many Ala­bama G.A. tix 
Call 3300 or 3315 
Need 5 BAMA tickets! Please have pity! Call Lisa 1343 
Need 4 G.A. tickets for Alabama Football· game. Have unlimited funds. Call bob 1461 
Addressers wanted Immediately! Work at home --no experience necessary --excellent pay. Write American Service, Suite 132, Min­neapolis, Mn. 55426 
Need 2 or 4 Alabama tickets. Call Peggy 4-4381 
Need Alabama tickets Will pay good price. Call Martha 4819 
Need 1 GA Barna Ticket. Tony 
288-5675  
3 G.A. tixs needed game. Call Bob 255­ for 8660  Alabama ·  
Need bucks.  Barna tickets Call 234-8891  will  pay  big  

lfsMiami Ticket and 1 G.A. Barna call 1060 
Need 2 or 4 Alabama Tickets Call Claire 6833 
Will pay top dollar tor 2 Alabama GA tix Call 8401 
Need ONE ticket to Miami game. Call Patty, 4-4904 
--------------~ 
week for virtually certain approval. 
Passage of the bill by the lower house came just three days after the government announced post­ponement of elections for at least another year, the second . such postponement since Gandhi pro­claimed a national emergency on June 26, 1975. 
The two developments cleared the way for Gandhi's government to move ahead with virtually unfet­tered freedom, though neither 
INTERNATIONAL CAREER? 

A representative will be on the campus 
MONDAY NOVEMBER 8, 1976 
to discuss qualifications for advanced study at 
AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL and job opportunities in the field of 
INTERNATIONAl MANAGEMENT 
Interviews may be scheduled at 
PLACEMENT OFFICE 
AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT Thunderbird' Campus Glendale, Arizona 85306 
Classified Ads 
DESPERATELY NEED G.A. and student Barna tickets. Call 1487 
Help! If I don't find another ticket I'm going to go to the Barna game Fred less! 
Ginger 4829 

Need Alabama tickets somthing fierce. Call Martha at 4819 
Desperately need 3 GA Alabama tickets for parents and a priest. Call Stephanie 1364 
Faculty will exchange Miami for any 2 Alabama tixs and pay additional price or will buy outright at any price 1671 or 288-6366 
Needd 4 tix tor Chicago. Together if possible. Bob 287-9453 
Need 8 GA Alabama tixs. CAll Chris at 8336 
Wealthy relatives need 2 GA Ala­bama tickets. Top Dollar! Call Leo 3278 
Need 3 G.A. tix or 1 student and 2 
G.A. tix to Miami. Call Betsy 4298 or Jim 1188 
I need G.A. Alabama tickets . top dollar Tim 1868 
FOR SALE 

Miller High Life and Miller Lite golf hats, golf shirts, T-SI,Iirts and Win­ter hats for sale. L.ow prices Bob 8361 
Car stereo: Craig -3512 FM Cassette receiver (excel.); Jensen 7 6 x 9 Co-Axial Speakers (br. newl; Retail 5168 asking $90; Andy 289-4790 
For Sale: RCA Portable Stereo, $40, Call 6264 or 6265 
1969 Datsun Classic 1800 all new 
.

paint, tires, interior. Excellent condition Low mileage $2000 or better 272-3236 
For Sale: Set of 8 long stemmed Coors glasses. Nice make offer ·· 1478 
Mexican Belts: finest leather belts 
available only $10.00. Call "Big 
Money Murf" anytime at 234-8858 
Book Ship. Used books, Students 
Paradise, Open Wed., Sat, Sun. 9-7 
Ralph Casperson Books, 1303 Buch­
annan Road, Niles Mich. 683-2888
-------------.....!-­
Aloe cosmetics a wide variety of 
products 4565 
For Sale: Hitachi Receiver BSR turntable ,S200 233-2608 
----~---------­
Gandhi nor her cabinet members have given any specific indication what further changes might be in the offing. 
The amendment itself, while adding a set of "fundamental 

John Wahman 
Agent 

Karen Wentland 
· Agent 


BEST OFFER 1 "BAMA" ticket Pat or Phil 8582 .. 
PERSONALS 

To whom it may concern, 
John Mcdonaugh is not to be' believed. He has a tendency to get involved in other peoples affairs. 
HAIL BAGS! THERE IS SUP­POSED TO BE A BAG PARTY THIS SATURDAYNIGHT. WENEEDTO DISCUSS THIS AND OTHER "GAMEY" SUBJECTS, SO BE SURE ALL YOU BETA ALPHA GAMMA BOYS AER AT THE MANDATORY MEETING AT 8:00 TONIGHT AT THE BAG INN!!! 
"FAMOUS DEATH" ODDS: 
SPIC 1-1 Congo 5-1 PRE 3-1 MAC 8-5 !DUBl2 2-1 SNIP 8-5 

Spic favorite but south Catholic c.:»uld sweep! 
Help three "nuns" kick th habit. Ca!l 5279 or 51.S6 
Quick! Take Diane Kululyo out for a Sundae! P.S. Are those mint chocolate chips ·in your eyes? 
Kidnapped! One Blind Pand,, Bear in the vacin1ty of St. Eo's Friday night. Family distr~ssed. Negotia­tions can be worked out ca114-5392. 
REWARD lollipops 
Kathleen, 
I love and miss yor with all my heart. Have a Happy Birthday and know I'm thinking of you. 
Keith 

If you're hot to trot, hit the spot!! Campus view Kegger-Friday night,9 o'clock · 
The world will always welcome lovers as time goes by, Mad Man Moon 
Janet, The wild bunch awaits tor a belated birthday mount. 
Punk, Friday nite may be cold but you won't be able to beat Sat. No matter how hard you try­
''Caves'' 
C. Datzman This Is a belated personal but you should not be reading personals: You should be dMclng 
The Wallflowe,.. 

Dear Egor, Happy 20th B-Dayl We love you Fondly, Baby Md dudley 
duties" for eaclt citizen, concen­trates on rewriting those articles of the constitution which the govern­ment says the opposition has used to impede social and economic reform. 
'Tt·aral'lt·r \ t•ar. I 'l'llll''ft•r ·aftt·r 'l'llll''ft•r. tht• ( 'ollece' Ja,tt·r from Fidl'lit\ l'nion l.ife lia-.. 
ht'l'll lhl' llhl-..1 &ll'l'l'pl l 'tl. mo't poJmlar plan on rampu'l'' all OH'r. \mt-rira. 
Find our \\In. (·all tlw Hddih l nion ( 'ollq.!l'' la'll'r Fil·ld .\-..,odatt• m \our art•a: 
'JI ') I:.. ( l'd.U South Bl•nd, Ind. Phonl' 2H7 -nr 


Roses are red 
Violets are blue 
Yogi did his homework 
When Boo Boo had the flu 

Attention Badin, Lewis and Breen Phillipos girls without dates to their respective fo~mals. Eligible fresh· men men are now available at Alumni Call 6251 for more informa­tion 
Ann, Bud, Dave, Jim, Leo, Marty, Moons, Nip, Rene, Richie, Sue and Tony do not wish Renny "Adrien­ne" Ward a Happy Birthday. But our sincerest best wishes to Mrs Ward on the 19th anniversary of her miscarriage. 
Debris, 

"This day, changing as we must through time, through time 
Growing as we must with time, Is one thu, with special thoughts, special dreams-And in the most dearest. most 

sacred respect, heart to be shared with thy most spendid memory. 
Happy Birthday. Twenteenone "The Fisherman" 
Sexual barriers broken. Great Deaths In foods has new contestant. I'll win with mashed potatoes. 

To the fine fellows of Keenan's fourt floor: Thanks for the fantastic festivities! Fondly, the Farkle family, Fannie, Frieda, Fickle, Fifi, Frannie, Fruiti, and Felicia. 
P.S.  Yes,  Farrah  Fawcett  is  a  
Farkle!  
A.J.  
They  have  theater  in  South  Bend  

too. Why don't you give it a try. Orleans France 
Interested in moving up In the Universe? 
God and company is looking for a qualified Individual who has: 1) a flaming personality 2) Spiritual ser­enity 31 Heavenly Hopes and 4) a dovelike demeanor 
Send resume to Heaven cl,.. Jesus Christ 54655 Irish Way Apt 205 South Bend, Ind. 46337 
"FAMOUS DEATH" CONTES+ TANTS+ BREAK A LEG !FATAL­LY) 
Lovingly, Snip 
SUPER IMPORTANT SENIOR AD­VISORY COUNCIL MEETING TO­DAY AT 4:15 IN 124 HAYES-HEA­LY ALL MEMBERS AND INTER­ESTED SENIORS PLEASE AT+ TENDI 
.. 

Wednesday, November 3, 1976

the observer 
---------·----­
Sports Information: they never rest 
by Ray O'Brien 
Sports Writer Fe11 people v:ould argue that Notre Dame has one of the most reknowned names in collegiate athktics. Thi~ highly touted repu­
taion  ha'> been passed down  over  
1he year~.  
Hut  no  organization  can  live  
~.~lei~·  off  of  its  reputation,  and  

""otrc Dame's prominence comes Irum the hard. work of its athletic department. This job of public . 
n·lation., can be traced specifically ''' the Sporh Information Depart­ment. 
rill' rc'>l)tlll~ibility of keeping Nntrc Dame·, name in front of the JlL't>pil' with iL~ tremendous air of re'>pt•dabilitv belongs to Sports lnf•>rmation Director Roger Valdi­.,, .• TI. Fn1 people realize the ;~n~<>llllt of llt>rk and trial and tnhulation~ the job incurs. Besides \ aldi'>L'I'ri. thcr~· is only the Assis­tant Sporh Information Director 
.. 
BohBc~t and nine student assis­tanh to handle this task. Thi~ department is generally rc~pon~ihk for publicizing all var­'iitl <,pnrh. They prepare media ~uidc' lor each sport. put out rcka-.L''> t2.200) carh week for the '>porh that arc in season, print prngram.' fnr each '>porting event and make all the announcements runcl·rning the athktic department. Ht>WL'\L'I". thl'ir greatest job is briefing media ·on team statistics and keeping inside stories ,and rumors 'itraight. "A great deal of our job is done on the phone," related Best. "Since Notre Dame has national interest, \H' deal with media throughout the country every week. 
Soccer club seeks varsity· status 
by Bob Gibson Sports Writer 
In the midst of one of the most ambitious schedules in college soccer. the Notre Dame soccer club has thus far compiled an enviable 7-S-1 record. with four games rematntng. The Irish play IS games against varsity teams while only two are played against fellow club teams, 
Senior Dave Austgen is the club president and Bob Connolly. a third year law student and former player, handles the coaching. 
Commenting on his talented squad. Connolly said, "This team can play brilliant soccer but we sometimes let down against weaker teams.'' 
The record clearly bears this out. 
Harriers finish 7th; Reinhart hurt 
by Gregory Solman Kent State, and that's fairly good-­Sports Writer considering the seventh place berth came without the aid of top runner 
It was a seventh place finish and and Captain Jim Reinhart. a hard day's work for the Irish "We were running together, and cross-country team last Saturday at I turned around to talk to him and 
he was gone," exclaimed team­mate Dennis VanderKraats, whoTop Twenty incidently took over where "Reino" left off and placed 17th in 
The Top Twenty teams in The 
the race. Had the captain given up
Associated Press college football 
cross-country on such short notice? 
poll, with first-place votes in paren­
No. he was just one more addition
theses, season records and total 
to Coach Joe Piane's growing
points. Points based on 20-18-16­
injury list--luckily, this particular
14-12-10-9-8 etc.: 
one was minor. What had happened on thisI. Michigan (57) 8-0-0 1,228 
damp, chilly. overcast day, was
2. Pitt (5)
.. 
3. UCLA -1. So. Cal. ~ Texas Tech 
0. Maryland 
7. Georgia 
M. Ohio St. 
9. Nebraska .... 10. Florida 
II. Notre Dame 
12. 
Arkansas 

13. 
Okla. St. 

14. 
Colorado 

15. 
Alabama 

16. 
Missouri 

17. 
Oklahoma 

18. 
Texas A&M 

19. 
Houston 

20. 
Texas 


8-0-0 1,076 
that Jim Reinhart had been spiked, 
7-0-1 976 
and when he later developed a
6-1-0 758 
spasm of the calf muscle, he was
6-0-0 703 
forced to call it quits just before the
8-0-0 668 
two mile mark. With the NCAA
7-1-0 547 
qualifiers coming up, however,
6-1-1 497 
Reinhart is not considering a
6-1-1 451 
vacation . 
6-1-0 342 
"I started working out Tuesday,

6-1-0 290 
and will be back into full training
5-1-0 267 
tomorrow," Reinhart said. "I
5-2-0 180 
don't think the spike was inten.
6-2-0 146 
tiona], it's just one of"those courses
6-2-0 83 
where in the first two miles, before
5-3-2 31 
. the runners have spread out, there
5-2-1 26 
is a lot of narrow paths and sharp
6-2-0 19 
curves."
5-2-0 18 
The next course Reinhart and his 

3-2-1 10 
teammates will run will be nice and 
Wins have come over such Big Ten team member carrying at least a varisities as Michigan, Wisconsin 3.0 average. All are anxious to see and Northwestern, yet last week­soccer move out of the club sport 
end the club dropped a 2-1 decision designation. As a varsity sport to John Carroll University. they strongly believe that Notre Connolly bemoans the fact that Dame would be a national soccer soccer is only a club sport at Notre power within four years. Dame. "As a club we're treated 
Connolly receives stacks ofwell and we're damn successful. 
letters each year from top playersWe play class teams and represent across the country and from as farthe University well, but we defin­away as Ghana. "Outstanding kidsitely belong as a varsity sport." 
want to play soccer for Notre DameThe team is loaded with quality until they find out that we're only aplayers. Many were all-state in club sport," said Connolly.
high school. 
"We have a lot of guys who For now, the club will do without turned down soccer scholarships such luxuries as a locker room. from smaller schools to come to They will continue to play an Notre Dame.''' commented senior excellent brand of soccer and hope co-captain Tom Mulvey. that their year end sales pitch to 
The club is not only good but the University will result in a new they're smart, with virtually every varsity sport at Notre Dame. 
~"? 

Notre Dame's sports intormation department ranks as one the best in the country t efforts of [left to right] Bill Delaney, Tom Desmond, Monte Towle, Assistant Sports Information Director Bob Best, Kim Kelly, Tim Bourret, Chip Scanlon and Ted Robinson. Leo Latz and Sports Information Director Roger Valdiserri are absent from the photo. 
Half the day might be spent on the phone." 
When not on the phoneValdiserri and Best spend much of their time travelling from sporting event to sp1,rting event. The word "hectic" docs not quite describe the atmos­phcre that these two men live in. Bc'>t described the past weekend's activities as follows: "Roger (Valdiserri) tlcw with the team to Cleveland and I remained to direct the press box for the hockey game. Early the next morning I drove to Cleveland arriving just in time for the national anthem. We flew back immediately after the game and with some French Connection driving we arrived at the ACC at 
7: I 0 for the 7:30 hockey game. After the game I went home and collapsed." 
Besides the long hours, the job becomes a seven day a week responsibility when hockey, football and basketball are all in progress simultaneously, One must wonder how all the little arrangements the fans take for granted get done. 
"Two people really can't do it." Best explained. "We have a staff of nine students. Each one is 
flat: the District Four NCAA championships in Champaign, Illinois. At least two of Notre Dame's top runners, Reinhart and VanderKraats, are expected to qualify for the NCAA Nationals, to be held in Denton, Texas, on Nov. 
22. But, according to Reinhart, there may be some surprises in store for Notre Dame fans. 
"Dennis (VanderKraats) has a good chance as well as some of the other guys," Reinhart commented. 
"We're well trained and well psyched." 
In the race on Saturday, how­ever, the Irish showed seventh, behind winner Michigan, second place Penn State, third place Bowling Green and Western Michigan, Air Force and Eastern Michigan. After Notre Dame, Illinois, Kent State and Toledo rounded out the top ten finishers. 
VanderKraats' s seventeenth place time was 25:20, just 59 seconds behind top pacer Maley of Penn State. Malley was followed by Greg Myer of Michigan, just one-tenth of a second behind him, and Duits of Western Michigan. 
Dan Horgan placed second for the Irish, finishing 45th. Fred Stepan, Kevin Kenny and Joe Strohman ended the Irish scoring with 56th, 68th and 69th place finishes. 
assigned to a sport that they must publicize under our direction." Best had nothing but praise for his aids as he stated, "We have been lucky with the type of students we have recruited. They work long hours and are extremely dedi­cated." 
One would think that at least the summer months would be an easy off season time. "The summer is the most difficult time of the year," claims Best. "Basketball and football programs are major pro­ductions that must be taken care of in the summer and there are no students around to help out. There is no real slack time around here." 
Valdiserri and Best are both graduates of Notre Dame. Valdi­serri graduated in 1954 and imme­diately became administrative assistant to head football coach Terry Brennan holding the position through 1958. In 1959 he was named director of public relations for Mercedes-Benz, a position he held until 1964 when he became head of public relations for the Kansas City Chiefs. Valdiserri gave up this job to return to his produce all this.
S I -.-.-...-...-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-...-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-..............................
C h1.p can on ····························································,=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=···=·=···=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=· 
Chip Shots 
. h H k

·····•·•······························· ...... ... -. ·----I
···················=<·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·:-:.:-:·:·:·=-=·=·:::=:-:·:·:·:·W.·:·:=:-:=:-:::-:-:.~-:;:=:~:-:;:; TIS OC ey
Rowan and Martin awarded the Fickle Finger of Fate, but around Notre Dame there's an award called the Fickle Finger of Fan Support. Hopefully the "Finger" is still pointing at Lefty Smith's hockey team after last Saturday night's game because if it isn't it would be a terrible injustice. 
Friday night the Irish went into the game without Geoff Collier and Dan Byers, having Don Jackson and Roger Bourque available only for limited action and without the services of Clark Hamilton entirely. Hamilton came down with the flu on Friday afternoon and missed the opener, but made a courageous effort to skate and skate well Saturday night. 
With adversity surrounding them, the hockey team battled Friday night. After getting through a jittery first period and then going down 2-0 early in the second period the Irish roared back. Led by Brian Walsh's fifth career hat trick and Don Fairholm's two goal performance the Irish shelled the Spartan's outstanding goaltender Versical and finished up on the plus side, 7-3. 
Saturday brought a lot of surprises for the Irish. One was that John Peterson was in the nets for the Irish. After seeing Len Moher allow only three goals the previous night fans thought that Moher would be the "hot hand" that Lefty said he was looking to go with. But Lefty wanted to give each of the junior goaltenders a chance and in fairness gave John Peterson the Saturday night start. 
Another surprise was that the Irish were up S-2 after an explosive outburst by the Irish forwards, scoring four times within the first 4:17 of the middle period with the forwards shooting at a . 750 percentage after their first three goals. But then after this incredible outburst the Irish got a couple of unwelcome surprises. 
With 7:32 gone in the third period Brian Walsh and Don Jackson found themselves in the penalty box. The Irish weathered this two-man disadvantage but suddenly found themselves without Paul Clarke who suffered a sever charlie-horse after being kneed by a Spartan defender as Clarke followed through on a shot from 30-feet out. Then Jack Brownschidle was hit in the thigh with a puck and found himself on the bench with a very sore leg. That left Smith with converted center Walsh, a one-handed Don Jackson (who played with his hand in a cast), stiff-legged Roger Bourque and a healthy Dick Howe who had a very good weekend. And even Jackson was out for a time with a cut next to his eye. 
With less than six minutes remaining Michigan State tallied three times, much to the disappointment of Smith, the team and the fans. "It looks like the injury bugaboo is still with us," lamented Smith. "When you add to that too many cheap penalties that we took, the timing that we had developed in the second period was lost and we allowed Michigan State to catch up and go ahead," Smith admitted. 
"It was disconcerting to be sure, but hopefully it will be a good lesson to all our players,'' Smith reflected. It certainly was a lesson in defeat for the team. Hopefully the fans realize the circumstances behind the lesson. 
alma mater. The man he personally 
recommended to replace him is now 
the general manager of the Kansas 
City Chiefs. 

Valdiserri, regarded by many as 
the top sports director around, has 
turned down many attractive offers 
to remain at Notre Dame. These 
offers are not surprising when one 
looks at the man's accomplish­
ments. In the ten years that 
Valdiserri has held down the job as 
Sports Information Director he has 
received seven NCAA District Four 
awards for his Notre Dame football 
and basketball brochures. He has 
also been honored with nine awards 
for other sports publications from 
the College Sports Information 
Directors Association. Besides 
holding down this job he is also the 
assistant Athletic Director. Notre 
Dame's Sports Information Service 
has won more awards than any 
other school. 
At 26 years of age, Best is not without his share of honors. He has edited nine award winning sports publications. Best graduated in 1972 a communication arts major and received his masters from du Lac last year. He has also just co-authored a book with ex-Notre Dame coach Tom Pagna which is called Notre Dame's Era of Ara. The book is scheduled for release in two weeks. Best "unbiasedly" calls it "the best book ever written." 
''The greatest reward I think we get out of this job is knowing that Wt: have had an influence on the lives of the students that work for us," explained Best. "Students can learn a great deal about what goes on inside communiations and public relations. They get a taste of the real world before other students do.'' Best should know as he worked for Sports Information when he was a student here. The "Czar," as he is referred to by his :,tudent aids, continued, "I really enjoy knowing I have a hand in these student's educations." 
The next time you look at a yearbook or program or smile inside when people are talking about our athletic program we might remem­ber the men and students that 




