

....-------------­
-~ 
No change after recount 
Van Tassel wins SLC re-election 
by Jane Neff Staff Reporter 
Ed Van Tassel was named SLC representative after a North Quad' ballot recount last night. He defeated Mary Charchut by nine votes with the recount outcome showin,~:: the same results as the original count. 
Charchut ask for a second count because of the variation found when South Quad ballots were recounted. "I wouldn't have asked for a recount," ~he stated. "But the people that worked for me requested that I do so. And the election committee thought it was the hcst thing to do." 
Peter Gottsacker, election chairman, explained the recounting procedure by saying, "We ran through the original tally sheets and compared them against the tally total~. They recounted all the votes on different tally sheets and compared them to the originals.'' 
Roxes were locked since the first counting and only election personal were admitted into the room contain­ing the ballot boxes. 
"It's amazing the way both quads came down so close." Gottasacker stated. He said the discrepancy in the South Quads results came because several tally marks were not easily readable. 
After hearing the final election outcome, Van Tassal commented on future plans, "Mary had some good ideas. and I plan to pay special attention to her concern that the students do not gave a good grasp of the SLC and its workings. I think that the election shows that peonlc recol.!nizc the hard work we've done this year." 

un1vers1fy of noire dame 
Vol. X, No. 95 
SMC spending $1.4 million 
Sports center to be multi-purpose 
by Marti Hogan Assistant St. Mary's Editor 
Is St. Mary's now offering a physical education major? No, but now St. Mary's athletics will have their own piace to do their own thing. 
Construction of the St. Mary's sports and recreation center will begin late this spring and should be completed by April, 1977, St. Mary's Board of Regents announ­ced last Friday. This $1.4 million sports center will have three levels. 
The building, which will be located north of McCandless Hall, will include a multi-purpose room with basketball, volleyball and tennis courts. This main arena will feature bleachers to seat 1,500. The plans also include faculty offices, team and dressing rooms and two racquet ball courts. 
The tri-level center will have a 
sunken gym on the second level, and two sunken racquet ball courts on a partial third level. "Racquet ball courts require a 20 foot ceiling, Wernig said, "so that mean another level." The building will only be 16 feet high." 
Three faculty offices, to be 
located on the ground floor for . security reasons, will house the physical education department and 
athletic director. 
"It was designed for covering all 
options," Wernig said ..• "Eve~ ~he 
offrce walls aren't up to the cethng 
so we can change the offices 
around. If we want four offices 
instead of three we can do it," 
Wernig added. 
Coed volleyball 
The north end of the ground floor 
houses the offices, a small multi­
purpose room, rest rooms and a 
small men's locker room which 
Wernig explained saying, "No 

Construction of St. Mary's sports and recreation center will begin late this spring and should be completed by April, 1977. ·[Photo by Tim Krause} 
When asked what the SLC was accomplishing, he said that first semester was spent doing homework on the issues. "Now the proposals are ·bemg presented to the administration for their approval," he stated. 
Van Tassel thinks that Charcut made such a strong showing because she campaigned door-to-door and had excellent people working for her. "I didn't really start campaigning until Sunday," he said, "Because I was busy working on the SLC coed-housing report to the trustees." 
Asked to comment on the election, Charcut responded, "I was very pleased with the results, especially since I was the only woman running." 
Charchul Van Tassel 
Breen-Phillips 58 53 
Farley 40 47 
Flanner 82 83 
Grace 135 Ill 
Keenan 97 108 
Stanford 99 77 
Zahm 52 93 
Total 563 572 
sf mary's college 
Friday, February 27, 197fl 
reason we can't have coed volley­ball games." The remainder of the ground floor is a seven and a half foot wide walk way which overlooks the sunken gym. 
The multi-purpose room will be below the ground floor and will have a surface area of 120 by 160 feet. This room may be separated by dividing nets into three separate courts and by closing tke bleachers on the east and west ends of the room. The bleachers will open up 
(Continued on page 6) fully Student Union positions will 
RA 's relate their views about the dorm positions 
by Patrick Cole Senior Staff Reporter 
EDITOR'S NOTE: This Is the last of a three-part series examining the role and responslbiDtles of resident assistants. The Dnt part looked at resident assistants from the view· point of hte administration and at the selection process. The second part looked at the resident assis­tants from the viewpoint of the rectors. The third part, today, examines how the resident assis­tants look at their role. 
Question: who begins his duty from 6 p.m. to 7 a.m. the following morning? 
If you guessed the security guard on the night shift, you arc wrong. For these eleven hours, the resi­dent assistant is on duty to provide the students with the services required of them. 
Why become an R.A.·I There are several reasons why the resident assistants have ap­
plied f,or the position. Said Diana · Merten, a senior and resident assistant in Walsh Hall, "Being a resident is a good way of getting to 
tl::::=========================~ the pr«.>ssure," he added. 
by Maureen O'Brien Staff Reporter 
Mike Gassman, student body president-elect, announced yester­day his initial plans for next year's student government. 
Gassman plans to first choose people for student government positions "by April 1." 
"Most cabinet positions are pre­sently filled by seniors; we will interview people for these jobs sometime before April 1," he explained. 
Gassman emphasized that stu­dent government is looking for the best possible people to fill these jobs. "We do not want to give the jobs just to the people who worked with us on our campaign. We would like student government to consist of a diversified and talented group of people who can get things done," Gassman said. 
Student Body Congress 
Gassman hopes the Student Body Congress will meet for the first time in mid-April. 
"Mike Casey, SBVP-elect, and I assume our positions of April 1," Gassman said. "The SLC members have already been elected. Hope-
know people." 
Ken Pryzbyla, a graduate stu­dent at Moreau Seminary and resident assistant in Fisher Hall said he applied for the position because he "wanted to help stu­dents." 
"To me, it involved some aspects of apostolic field work," Przybyla indicated. "I looked upont the resident assistant job with a minis­terial context." 
Mary Beth Hagan, a senior and 
resident assistant in Lyons Hall 
saw advantages in being a resident 
assistant. "Being a resident 
assistant is a good deal finnancial-
Jy," she said. "But I like to get to 
know other students. If you are 
interested in people, it's a good 
way to put that in use." 
Said another resident assistant, 
"l enjoy working with college 
students. I remember my college 
experience and it was a great time. 
I would like to share that ex­
perience with those taking the road 
that l did once." 
Most of the resident assistants 
had varying concepts of what 
responsibiWi.,s they had. Yet they 
held one t' /Continu"''mmon--disci­
. ed on page J) be filled and the new hall presi­dents will have been elected by mid-April. Then we can begin to meet as a Student Body Cong­ress." 
Byrne Aides 
Gassman noted that the present student government's efficiency will help next year's officers adapt to their positions more easily. 
"Ed Byrne encouraged record-­making this year," Gassman said. 
"He is having resumes prepared for us to explain exactly what has been done this year, how it was done and who did it," Gassman said. "The resumes will save us from a lot of unnecessary steps next year." 

GASSMAN 
[Photo by Tim Krause] 
Gassman then outlined specific projects and goals which he hopes to accomplish next year. They are: 
1) Work more closely with the Hall Presidents Council and the halls. 2)Publish a five or six page booklet at the start of the semester explaining student government structures, what this government offers students and how to get involved in it. 
3) Have two or three town meetings during the year in which Student Government, Faculty and Admini­strators will discuss key university 
issues. 
4) Improve student-faculty rela­tions and have several forums with the faculty senate during the year. 
5) Work with student lobbying to change the Indiana state drinking laws. 
6)Make LaFortune more of a center for student activities; have more social events and speakers. 
"Hopefully, ifthe drinking age is lowered in Indiana, we could consider building a pub for the 
students in LaFortune," Gassman added. "We also hope to encourage students in the business school to take more electives outside of the business school to alleviate some of 

. . . ' . . ' ~ ' -----­
'1 I I 1 I • 

... 
Friday, February 27, 1976
2 the observer 
,._--News Briefs--­
~====~======~==Nationm 
Railroad strike 
CIDCAGO-Management personnel manned Elgin, Joliet, and 
Eastern Railroad trains yesterday afte some 150 trainmen and 
conductors went on strike. 
Workers set up picket lines at the East Joliet yards and at the Kirk yards in Gary, Ind., after contract negotiations broke down early Thursday between management and the United Transporta­tion Union. 
Henry Kijewski, president of Local 740, said Ej&E trains have been operating since 1970 without contract. He said salary itself is not an issue-that the strike revolves around management's desire to cut three-man crews to two. 
-On Campus Today 
12:20 p.m. --film, "william harvey and the circulation of the 
blood," spons. by program in history and philosophy of science, rm 101 galvin. 
4:30 p.m. --colloquium, "inequalities in fourier analysis," by prof. wm. beckner, u. of chicago, spons. by math dept., 226 computer center. 
5:15p.m. --mass and dinner, bulla shed. 7 p.m. --swim meet, bradley u. v. nd., rockne pool. 7,9,& --film, "summer of '42", eng. aud., $1. 11 
p.m. --hockey, minnesota-duluth v. nd, ace rink. 
7:30 
p.m. d " h 'bl " b d h
8 p m --rama, t e cruc1 e, y n -smc t eatre, 
· · o'laughlin aud., $2 general, $1.50 student. 10 p.m.­--nazz, joe clockenkemper; rich spangler, anne ·1a.m.. dilenschnieder; bill shaughnessy, luis gamez, 
therese ballalora, joe gill; Iafortune rathskellar. 10 p.m.---smc coffeehouse, joe bauer; jim kotorac, bill 1a.m. beargle, jim pecora, sue olin, toots strigle; friend of 
the devil, smc snackshop. 12 a.m.---nocturne night flight, progressive rock, jazz and 2 a.m. 
blues, wsnd-fm, 88.9. 
saturday, february 28, 1976 
10:15 a.m. --multi-media show, "notre dame in review," library aud. 
1 p.m. --basketball, marquette v. nd, ace arena and wsnd-tv. 2 p.m. 
--weapons practice, society for creative anachro­nism, old fieldhouse. 7 p.m. 
--concert, teatro del barrio, spons. by mexican-a­merican grad studies program, library aud. 7 p.m. --regular meeting, society for creative anachronism, Iafortune ballroom. 
7 p.m. --exhibit, "sweeney, amena, cavi, klee," sr. exhibits and opening reception, moreau & little theatre galleries. 
7,9, 11 p.m. --film, "summer of '42,"eng. aud., $1. 8 p.m. --drama, "the crucible," by nd-smc theatre, o'laughlin aud., $2 general, $1.50 student. 8 p.rn. concert, by jamie massa and accompaniment, spons. by music dept., little theatre. 10 p.m.---nazz, pat russell; mark hopkins; kevin short; Iafortune rathskellar.
1a.m. 
sunday, february 29, 1976 
2 p.m. 8 p.m. 
8:15 p.m. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: AI Rutherford Ass't Night Editor: Maureen Flynn layout Staff: Paul Stevenson,_ Frank Keb~, .Paul Schappler, Oakland Bauer Day Editor: Kathy McEntee, 
Copy Reader: Fred Herbst, Mary Egan Editorials: Jim Eder Features: Val Zurblis Sports: Bill Brink Typists: Camille Arrieh, Mary Tobin, Morey Blinder Night Controller: Martha Fanning 
The Observer is published ltlondatv through Friday illd \MlekJ y during the sunmer session, except during the exam; il1d vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the lkliv. of Notre Dame il1d St. foNry's College. Sul:lsc:rlf.t~. ,.,., be purch115ed for $18 CSlO ·l)l!l':c"''QmeSterl fro'Tl The Obsenier,...-:~~'Jif.' Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. -·.5eGl1!id Class 
postage paid, Notre ~~56. 
. . ...... 
--boxing, bengal bouts, ace;: arena. 
--symposium, "a look at business and law," by kathleen cekanski and sophia korczk, spons. by adv. council of women students, library aud. --concert, organ concert, by sue westendorf, spons. by music dept., sacred heart 
1,--]-;::~~-FAiifNGORt
t 1 -I e~ THINNING 1 t · ; HAIR? t 1 Before it's too late -1 
L HAVE A SERIES OF ELEC-t ~3 QQ per treatment TRICAL SCALP TREATMENTS ~
f • 
THAT CAN REVIVE DYINGl* Not recommended HAIR ROOTS BY INCREASED t 
' BLOOD CIRCULATION. ~ 
tfor high blood pressure RESULTS DETERMINED BY 
INDIVIDUAL RESPONSE. l 
t or heart patients. ' 
I ~ ~~ See LYNN by app,_! only~ t AUl!i9ts r~i? ~~~ t t 54533 TERRACE LANE -~ ft Tues., Wed:, Sat. 8:30 -5:30, f ~ Thurs. & Fri. 8:30 -8:30 PHONE 277 -1691 _ -:::ozo t 
A-1 .•.
~----------------­
Benefit concert tomorrow for LaRaza projects 
by Bill Barnes staff reporter 
"Voces De America", a benefit concert, will be held tomorrow night in the library auditorium at 7 
p.m. Featured will be Jesus Negrete, LaVida, Sefie De Leon and David James. Proceeds from the sale of tickets, will be used by the Midwest Council of La Raza for a variety of community projects. 
Ricardo Parra, director of the council describes the concert as, "a once in a lifetime opportunity." Chicano talent from across the midwest will be performing. Negrete has been hailed by New York critics as a talent, "truly mirroring the conditions of the urban and rural Chicano, the blood, the tears and laughter of the Mexicano." James sings folk-style and protest songs and De Leon's music reflects her commitment to ministry work. South Bend's La Vida plays lively music portraying Chicano culture. 
The Council, which relies totally on outside support, has received a $20,000 grant from the national campaign for Human Development on the condition that it raises a matching amount from other sour­ces. The concert "Voces De America" is one of the sources. The funds that are raised will be used for the enhancement of educ­ation, research and training of :spanish-speaking: groups. Parra describes the Council as a, "self­determined organization for the good of the Spanish-speaking community." 
Tickets may be purchased for two dollars at the Urban Studies office in the Rockne Memorial before five o'clock or at the door. 
Tax assistance program expands 
Notre Dame students participat­
ing in a free program of assistance 
for persons with low incomes filing 
tax returns are expanding their 
service this week to two new areas. 
They will visit Rochester, Ind., 
Sat., Feb. 28, where a 1974 tornado 
has caused unusual problems for 
some taxpayers. 
The service will continue at eight 
neighborhood centers for persons 
with incomes of $12,00 or less until 
the April 15 filing deadline. 
The centers where assistance is a 
vailable are: Northeast Center, 803 
Notre Dame Ave., 5-8p.m. Mon­
days; Southeast Center, 416 Wen­
ger, 5-8p.m. Mondays; Clay Neigh­
borhood Center, 54143 Burdette, 
5-8 p.m. Tuesdays; Hansel Center, 
1045 W. Washington, 5-8 p.m. 
Tuesdays and Thursdays; Meadow­
brook Center, 52792 Hastings, 11 
a.m. to 2 p.m. Wednesdays; La­Salle Neighborhood Center, 2910 Western, 5-8 p.m. Wednesdays; Senior Citizens Center, 604 E. Jefferson, 10a.m. to noon Fridays; and La Raza Center, 404 S. Walnut, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturdays. 
STEVE HOWE Guitar • JOHN ANDERSON Vocals • ALAN. WHITE Drums. 


Friday, February 27, 1976 the observer 3 
--~------~~~~~~--~ 
RA's don't view themselves as disciplinarians 
(Continued from page l) pline was not the bulk of their responsibility. "I don't want to be a disciplin­arian," emphasized Robin Stem­merman, a graduate student and resident assistant in Lewis Hall. ''Being a resident assistant is more of a counseling position. With respect to rules, what I think is of no value. I'm being paid to do the job." "But if someone breaks the rules, they are wrong," Stemmer­man said. "I hope they gain respect for me by placing the responsibility on them." Hagan of Lyons Hall agreed. "I don't feel that my job is a disciplinary one," she said. "I feel the University has hired me so I will uphold the regulations. But I think there will be a lot of resentment if you act like a policeman." .Jerry Majewski, a senior and resident assistant in Stanford Hall expressed his views about his role. "In Stanford. we use our common sense to look at each situation not using a blanket rule," he said. 

PRZYBYLA !Photo by Tim Krause] 
Senior Joe Corpora. a resident assistant in Holy Cross Hall said that he enforces the rules "strictly enough to preserve the good of the hall." 
''I sec the role as one who is n.llcd upon to help people," he said. "I counsel people, type paper!> for residents--just anything 
I can do for someone." 
Marijuana, parietals, vandalism 
Pretend you arc smoking mari­juana in the section. Or you have the member of the opposite sex in your room after parietals, or you stole some furniture. How would the resident approach you? 
··If the smoking occured once on the weekend by a resident, I don't say anything,;. remarked senior Tom Simunek, a resident assistant in Flanner Hall. "But if it is constantly coming from the same room, I would act on it and ask the student about the problem." 
"If I knew about it I would ask what arc his reasons for smoking it," said Przybyla of Fisher Hall. 
What is the purpose of ques­tioning the smoker? 
''To help the person examine himself." Corpora of Holy Cross remarked. "It may make him challenge and question himself." 
Stemmerman of Lewis Hall thought the use of marijuana was more of a problem in a men's dorm than in a female dorm. "We haven't been confronted on this noor with the problem, .. she said. 
"If it was the first time," she 
Computing Center hosting program 
Notre Dame's Computing Center 
will sponsor a program on "Infor­
mation Retrieval Systems at Notre 
Dame" in room liS of the Comput· 
ing Center/Mathematics Bldg., 
Fri. Feb. 27 at J:JO p.m. 
The public is invited to attend the session, which will include presentations followed by informal discussion of topics ranging from information retrieval in biology, psychology and the library to a computer-based court data project in engineering and a "CRISIS Project" in the Civil Rights Center. 
continued, "I don't think I would 
have to say much. They know they 
are breaking a rule. If it constantly 
occured, I would have a meeting 
with the smoker and rector and the 
rector would decide what is to be 
done! 
The resident assistants held 
different views on approaching a 
parietals violation. 
Said a resident assistant in a men's dorm on the South Quad, "the present guideline regarding parietals causes confusion in the minds of the students. The students would like to think they can be trusted in their rooms in the same way their parents can trust them at home." 
He went on, "Students like to be confronted as people in a setting where reason and discussion are ways of life and not academic pronouncements in manuals and catalogues.'' 
Another resident assistant in a men's dorm said, "If women are allowed to be in the rooms all night, obviously the setting is conducive to sexual activity. To other hall residents trying to develop their own values, this behavior can heavily influence them.'' 
"Onlv the naive on both sides would deny that sexual intercourse would occurc frequently. often to the detriment of one or both parties involved.'' he continued. 
Simunek of Flanner Hall would use a policy that wouldn't em bar­ass the persons involved. "If a woman was still in the room, I would call him on the phone and ask him if the woman needed <! ride--not to embarass him.'' 
"But I don't listen at doors for women visitors after parietals," he continued. 
Merten of Walsh Hall revealed how she would handle vandals . ''I would ask them how they got the furniture or item before accusing them," she explained. "I would 
Bangladesh missionary explains what ND aid does 
by William ShaughnessJ Campus Ministry Charity Fund, Staff Reporter which then allotted $2000 for Goedert's work. The first program is 
Hundreds of impoverished citi-a monthly stipend to 95 widows wns of Bangladesh arc being aided with large families. Goedert by the generosity of the Notre predicted that he could continue to Dame community. according to Fr. supply the widows with help for the Edward Goedert, a missionarey rest of the year on his present stationed in Dacca. Ban_gladesh. funds. .
Also, the mission is usmg the
The Holy Cross missionary in a letter to Fr. William Toohey of money to continue its program of Campus Ministry. thanked the feeding 500 children who were not staff and students of Notre Dame getting _enough to eat at home. who contributed money at the Lastly, the mission expanded its 
weekend Masses at Sacred Heart work project. Goedert commented, Church last semester The collec-"The work project creates jobs so that able-bodied men can feed their 
ted noney was given to the 
r-------------------------~fa~m~ilies~.'_'----------------~ 

BULLA SHED 
a warm spot on a cold day! JOIN US -meet new people ­especially if you have never come 
This Friday and every Friday Mass -Dinner 5:15 pm 

So Fr. Mulcahy requires us to go down to see him every night.'' 
"But I think the resident assis­tant course should be changed,'' he added. "It's a forum for the exchange of ideas but they become isolated sessions." 
SUNDAY MASS~ (Main Church) 
5:15p.m. Sat. Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
9:30am Sun. Rev. len Banas, C.S.C. 1;:45 am Sun. Rev. Richard J. Conyers, C.S.C. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Rev. Bill Toohey, C.S.C. Evensong will be at 4:30 p.m. in 
lady Chapel. Homilist will be Rev. David T. Tyson, C.S.C. 
• 

~ECORDS 
YOUR COMPLETE 
MUSIC OUTLET!!!!!!! -.ROCK -.JAZZ --.CLASSICAL 
-.BLUES -.SOUL 
--.BLUEGRASS REGULAR ALWAYS 
$6.98 $4.99 
We're expanding our cut-out inventory and here's the deal .... $2.59 eachlor 3 for $7.00 
CLEARANCE ON ALL CLOTHING 
SOo/o off 
• RECORDS 
919 I College S1111rt lis..waka, lldiaaa 
Finally Merten commented on the unity among the hall staff members in Walsh hall. "We communicate quite often," she remarked. ''Our staff is very close, and we eat dinner together at our staff meetings in the dining hall." 
r 
*1~d.Q~t~~rver
Founded November 3, 1966 
EDITORIAL BOARD of Notre Dame and st. Mary's College. It does not necessar.ly Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported 
The Observer is published by the students of the Univers~ty 
AI Rutherford Managing Editor as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent 
Jim Eder Executive Editor 
the opinion of a majority of the Editoria_l Board.. ~om­Pat Hanifin Editorial Editormentaries are the views of individual ed1tors. Opm1ons, Bob Mader News Editor
cartoons and regular columns express the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the 
Maureen Rynn Ca~us Editor 
community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor expression of varying opinions on campus. Ken Bradford Copy Editor Val Zurblis Wire Editor Editorials: 28J-1715 News: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 Tom O'Neil Features Editor 
Business Manager Tom Modglin Bill Brink Sports Editor Advertising Manager Tom Whelan Dan Sanchez Senior Night Editor 
l~------~--~~~~-~-----------7.
Friday, February 27, 1976 ~ 
P.O. Box Q 

consideration to the task of main­planted from one womb to another. 
they would even write about his performance and compare htm to
taining it. While the University has One problem that remains is that of 
the others that had passed through the village. And, even though
legitimate responsibilities to its knowing you're pregnant soon
Not So Bad some of the people did not like the minstrel-god, all were glad that 
graduate students (of which it may enough to make transplantation 
they had their party. 
need frequent reminders), these possible.
at All We could establish special clinics
sources would do well to reflect 
Then, during one particularly cold winter, the great minstrel-gods 
for those who want an abortion and 
that in proportion as the University 
quit coming to the little village of Dome. There wer~ no more}r~at
at this clinic have a counseling
is invited to assume responsibility parties and the people became very upset. They cned out: Gtve
service that would discourage abor­
Dear Editor: for graduate concerns, it is invited us some great parties--we want to be happy and yell and see a
tions while offering reasonable
to regulate them as well. minstrel-god!" But the guardian ofthe parties said it was not to be. 
alternatives to the woman involved. 
"The great minstrel-gods do not want to come to Dome,"
The student sources of Mr. Monso Pantoja 
However, I feel that if a woman's 
declared Gabe the Guardian. "They do not want to come to any
Flahaven's article of February 25, S. A. Cartrigbt 
life is endangered and she, her 
great parties now--they are tired of playing to the people," he said
"Graduate students voice com­
husband, and her physician all 
sadly.
plaints'', seriously misrepresent agree, then the fetus should be 
"But we want to party!" cried the villagers. "Can't you get us at
both the nature and the actualities removed to save the mother. The 
least a little party?" they asked of Gabe the Guardian. .
of graduate life at Carroll Hall. Mus should not _be aborted, how­
Adopted in 
"No," Gabe stated with authority, "the great minstrel-gods wtll
There are, to begin with speci­eve&:-, every effort should be made 
not play to a small party. Do you not remember the Legend of
fics, numerous inaccuracies in their to preserve its life. 
the Womb Woodstock and the rule that great music is created only when there 
information. Contrary to the report 
Linda Sarb are a lot of people present. Besides, we cannot pay them what they
of The Observer's sources, Carroll Dear Editor: 
Hall is equipped with vending machines for cold drinks and Abortion has always been a candies. touchy subject, but it has been a Second-Class 
Again, contrary to The Obser­practice used for many years ..<?ne ver's report, Hall Managers at of the main reasons for legahzmg Carroll, while they are charged to abortions was so that a woman Citizens assist the Rector in the administra­
could have one without the fears of "dirty offices, unsterlized equip­
tion of the dormitory, are appointed Dear Editor: 
ment, and very high death rates."
by the Director of Graduate Hous­ing. The Rector consults in the No woman (and I am sure I am I am writing this letter to express nomination and appointment of safe in generalizing here) wants to my agreement with the spirit, if not Hall Managers, but they are in no murder or have a murder com­the letter. of the article about the 
mitted. However, who's to say a status of graduate students atwise his functionaries. 
woman has to carry a baby if its Notre Dame. It is commonAs to resident participation in detrimental to her health or the knowledge that graduate studentsthe regulation of dorm life, it baby's? Who's to say a woman has at Notre Dame are treated asshould be noted that the custom at to carry a baby l:f it is unwanted and second-class citizens by the admin­Carroll has been to call occasional totally unloved unless they are istration and the quality of life atmeetings of the entire community ;willing to want and love the baby Carroll Hall is simply an instance of for discussion and action by vote. 
more than she is? Yes, there are this.
Residents of Carroll have tradition­adoption agencies and people who They perform the often tediousally found it more conventient to want to adopt children, but there is jobs as RA's or TA's for wagesconduct their business through ad also the four or five months of below the poverty level. Sociallyhoc committees (such as that 
general discomfort and the un­they are outcasts inhabiting, as mentioned above) than to maintain equalled pain of childbirth. they do, the limbo between stud­a formal hall government. To be We can't deny the woman or ents and faculty as go-betweens. sure. the Rector and Hall Manager husband' and wife, the right to And finally, as a Carroll Hall may exercise veto control over the chose between the woman's life or resident it is quite true that there is scope and authority of committees the unborn baby's whe\} the wo­a lack of hot water from time to and hall meetings. In practice, man's life is in jeopardy. Pro-life time and that it lacks such conven­however, the relationship has been advocates ought to suggest to those iences as a kitchen or a comfortable 
one of mutual consultation between who don't want the baby that they lounge. Furthermore, Carroll Hall the Rector, Hall Manager, and carry the child' until someone who is so removed from the parking lots does care can take over. For that usually half of one's journey is 
resident community. Graduate instance, at six-seven months the simply getting to the car. Repeatedstudents at Carroll Hall, contrary to burden to the mother has not yet attempts have been made to ac-the impression fostered by The been too great and doctors could quire more convenient parking fac­Observer's sources, have never remove the infant prematurely. At ilities only to be summarily reject­been subject to arbitrary "edicts least then the baby hasn't been ed. This problem is exacerbated by from on high". 
murdered and still has a good the fact that we are forbidden toCritical problems of hall main­chance to survive. drive on campus at night to pick-up tenance have generally been han­In addition, pro-life advocates friends at the Hall and must parkdled with as much dispatch as can should encourage development of a our cars at the circle and walk. 
reasonably be expected. As The new technology that has recently Surely this at least could be Observer article indicates, this year 
proven successful in some cases: rectified. has seen several concrete improve­after the first 2 or 3 days of ments in hall facilities, with more conception the embryo was trans-Name withheld by request 
in various stages of planning. Carroll Hall is an old building, with all the inconvenience which usually attend such structures. Residents, however, while they must deal with the caprices of the water heater, etc., also pay far less for their housing than most Notre Dame students. For many, this exchange is quite acceptable. 
Graduate life at Carroll Hall can perhaps best be described as a lightly controlled autarchy, and indeed, anything else would prove truly oppressive. So great a degree of personal latitude requires in turn a highly personal and delicate management. In our opinion, Fr. Weiher and Barry O'Connor, the Rector and Hall Manager, have responded with much tact and 
DOONESBURY 
W&'!<E T!<YING TO TAl<& 
CORR&CTIVE ACT!ON ON THIS MAmR. IN FACT, I'Ve Jl/ST IJ&EN APPOINTW OIR£CTOI< OF 

opin ion !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Gabe & the Knights of the Gold Disk 
--iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii w.s . nichols 
Once upon a time, there was a little one-village kingdom by the name of Dome. It was a nice little kingdom but it was far away from any fun and when the winters came, the people were very cold and sad. So. to make themselves happy, they would throw huge parties and invite people from all around to come and be happy. The people would all come to the great hall and a travelling minstrel-god would play to them. There was great highness and happiness at these parties (despite some nasty grinches that would make th~ happy villagers sit down) and the minstrel-gods would play thetr great songs from their albums of gold and platinum. Soon, as with all good parties, it would end but the people would talk and talk 3:bout the party and the minstrel-god for days afterwards. Some~tmes. 
want if we do not have a great party. There is nothing I can do." 
But the people of Dome were persistent and they again asked 
Gabe the Guardian: "Can't we have just a little party, perhaps we 
can have one in a little hall and ask a less-great minstrel-god to play 
to us. The minstrel-god does not have to be a Knight of the Gold 
Disc to give us some music to party to. All the minstrel-gods can't 
be tired of playing to parties. They can't all be rich and bored!" the 
villagers cried. 
Gabe the Guardian became angry and roared: "No! This is the 
land of Dome and we must have the best! If we cannot get a great 
minstrel-god to come, then we will not have any parties. Dome has 
always had parties with only Knights of the Gold Disc playing at 
them. We cannot change things now!" 
Still, some of the people asked: "Why can't we ask some 
minstrel-god from the nearby city of Daley to play for us? Surely, 
some of the poor, Black blues minstrel-gods would want to play to 
us. Perchance, we may even find some minstrel-gods that are 
unknown but very good, hiding in the smokey clubs and living on 
the road. They would love to play to us and make some money. Let 
us find some of them!" the villagers eagerly said. 
"This cannot be!" Gabe the Guardian said. "We only get the 
best and that means Knights of the Gold Disc. The land of Dome 
must get some of these Knights or we will not have any parties." 
The villagers quit arguing with Gabe the Guardian after that but many of the people said that they had heard that some of the great minstrel-gods and even some Knights of the Gold and Platinum Disc were visiting other kingdoms nearby and playing at their parties. This made the villagers even madder but there was nothing they could do because Gabe the Guardian was the only one that could get the minstrel-gods to come to Dome. 
Finally, Gabe the Guardian will give the villagers a party. It will 
be a big party in the great hall and many people from all around will 
be there. 
He has even gotten a minstrel-band from across the great duck-pond to play for us at this great party. But the villagers are still unhappy. One might ask why this is so. The people are unhappy because: a) it has been almost 3 months since the last great party and b) the villagers really don't like the minstrel-gods that Gabe the Guardian has selected for their party. This is all very sad for the good people of Dome deserve much better than what they will get on March 28. And, although the minstrel-gods that will be here are certainly Knights of the Gold Disc, the people of Dome were not the ones that elected them to that high office and will not be the ones in majority at the party. Gabe the Guardian has gone and given their party to others and the villagers are still very sad, and they still do not have a great arty to o to. 
by Garry Trudeau 
ART FOR. 7HAT5 RIGHT. OF A!l.T'5 SAKe?! COIJf<S&, rr's ONLY 

Bt/T. .. I NONE&[) YOIJ MEAN IN THE PLANNING 
THOUGHT MAO 10 7EUHIM­ACTVAL. STA6tS. Wt'R£ STitt.. 
lOATH£() FORM IT5 ONlYfOR. A~fflC5?! R.IJNN!Nt3 FtA51­
OV&R {f)N!ENT! 1HE TOUR/5T5. \ 8/UTY 5Tt/f)f&S. 



Frida'y, February 27, 1976 
the observer 
Letters to a Lonely God 
hold back the robins! postpone the spring! 
Reverend Robert Griffin 

ttake care' 
fr. bill toohey 
No matter whatever else it might have generation. He found that among young 
been, last week was significant for us, for it women there is a widespread feeling of 
marked the occasion when Joe Namath "motherhood as male assault, the lethal 
consented to give a very revealing personal shot that ends your life." Raising a child 
interview. "is widely regarded as an unrelieved chore 
"Love," Joe said, ''has been the with no objective rewards." One gets the 
greatest burden of my life. I've been dating strong suspicion that attitudes toward 
a lady for five years; I love her and she children say more than anything else about 
loves me. But I know it is not permanent. I attitudes toward the self. 
know it can't last because I'm going to Listen, for example, once again to Joe 
keep moving. I keep telling my lady now Namath: "I have no desire to have 
that she'll probably find somebody else, children, so why get married? I hate 
fall in love and leave me, but I can't settle obligations outside of business. I don't like 
down." to make promises. I don't like responsibili­
Comments like this, and the musical ties in my love life." 
advice on"fifty ways to leave your lover," The negative attitudes of Transient Man 
may be contemporary symptoms of a toward caring remind us of Erik Erickson. 
phenomenon called Transient Man. This Caring is perhaps the key concept in 
hero began to make himself known in the Erickson's discussion of what he calls 
'60s. He was written about by authors like "generativity" --a concern for establish­
Harvey Cox, Alvin Toftler, Warren Bennis, ing and guiding the next generation. The 
Philip Slater and Charles Reich. He was concept is a crucial one, an ingredient that 
described as a person enjoying greater is, unfortunately, missing from Transient 
anonymity and mobility, temporary rela­Man. 
tionships and impersonal (cool) contacts. The primary meaning of generativity is 
Transient Man was the elect of the procreation, as you would expect, but it 
future. As psychologist John Kotre puts it, connotes more, much more. It means Transients "quickly used and disposed of productivity, creativity, caring for one's things, places, people, ideas, organiza­sector of the world. Because of this, tional structures. They worked in Manhat­parents may have many children and still tan but lived in Columbus, Ohio; they remain nongenerative --self-indulgent, jetted from Pennsylvania to see a dentist in uncaring, stagnant. On the other hand, a Germany; they commuted a thousand single woman or man may truly give miles each week to teach a course in herself or himself to the care for the philosophy. Theirs was the freedom and creatures of this world; may consider exhilaration of a coed on spring vacation in spritual progeny as a welcome trust and Fort Lauderdale: 'You're not worried about have a great deal to pass on to them. what you do or say here because, frankly, Childless, she or he is nonetheless genera­
you'll never see these people again.' tive. 
Affluent, liberated, on the move, these According to Erickson's view of the life 
heroes and heroines of popular social cycle, one does not become generative science were also appearing with each new until one has an identity, a sense of "being moon in the pages of Playboy and, later, at one with oneself," a feeling of "affinity Playgirl. They sowed more seed than ever with a community's sense of being at one before. They opened their thighs to more with its future as well as its history." than ever before. But no one noticed --no When that point is reached (and feeling one wanted to notice --that the seed they continuous with one's people, their past as sowed was dead and the wombs they well as their future, is part of it), he or she exposed were made of stone." becomes capable of intimate realtionships 
Is Transient Man "healthy"? Herbert and, after that, of generativity. In Erick­Hendin, a psychoanalyst who has just son's perceptive summation: "In youth you completed a six-year study of college find out what you care to do and who you student, thinks not. The "flexibility" of the care to be--even in changing roles. In "temporary" young really comes down to a young adulthood you learn whom you care 
painful confusion of identity, he says. to be with--at work and in private life, not "Increasing numbers of young people only exchanging intimacies, but sharing pursue disengagement, detachment, frag­intimacy. In adulthood, however, you learn mentation, emotional numbness --the to know what and whom you can take care safest way to handle the business of of." We note the crucial sequence: unless 
temporary relationships. It is becoming we first know and value who and what we harder to grow up to be a man or a woman are, we shall face the next generation with in this culture. The suicide rate among empty hands. 
young people (those aged 15 to 24) has When Erik Erickson concluded his risen more than 250 per cent in the past 20 Jefferson lectures, he asked that a current years." way of saying good-bye be understood in a 
More and more observers are pointing deeper sense. His final words were: "Take out that Transient Man appears incapable care." I find that an encouraging motto, as of producing and caring for offspring. As a we struggle in the hope that the image of 
mythical hero, Transient Man is incom­Transient Man may give way to Generative plete and sterile --a spiritual eunuch. It is Man, as we support each other in our significant, for example, to note what the efforts to know what and whom we can take students of Hendin's research felt about care of. 
find the Pope coloring his Easter eggs business. "Theirs is a wasted life," the early, though Madison Avenue may want world said. "If they really cared about the him to, or the Congress of the United world, they'd be burning files down at the States; and the jonquils and the lilacs may draft board." When some of them left the show up a month ahead of time as if to say: religious sanctuaries to burn the files at the "My, my, hasn't the party started yet?" If draft board, the world said: "They are the Pope finds the Easter bunny showing fanatics.'' up on Groundhogs' Day, he can just look at Ifyou have a Saviour you want to witness the watch that makes him infallible in to, or a suffering country you want to matters of faith and morals, and write an identify with, the world is always going to encyclical that tells that Easter bunny question your sanity. But Christ and where to go. It happens that way with all suffering people, whether witnessed to or great heretics, and the Pope knows a identified with, are identical figures on a 
~ W~ N* W~ Wh W~ Wh Wh W~ W~ 
If the Pope finds the Easter bunny showing up 
on Goundhogs' Day,...ke can write an encylical that tells that Easter bun11y where to go. 
~~====:wK~====~wca~~==:M~~====~w~:hK====~wcahc===~w~h wh w~ heresy if he sees one. The Easter bunny cross that the apostles have tled. If you could end up with his name on the same want to stand with the Sorrowful Mother at shit list with Martin Luther and Julian the the Calvary of the world, why not do it with Apostate and the Albigensian heretics. the Church on the traditional days, as well There has been a lot of fuss made about as with the hunger folks, some of whom, it calendars in the history of the Church; but is to be feared, make fasting a hobby. This at Notre Dame, we've had enough fuss is not a criticism of the honest and fruitful about calendars for one year. efforts of dedicated men and women who 
Seriously, folks, I am sorry to see the honestly care for the suffering. I simply Spring come so early. I'm also sorry to see want to make a pitch for my group, my that groups like the Peace Movement and cause, my after-supper club. We have the Hunger Coalition have taken over the programs in fasting, almsgiving, and rugged disciplines of Lent, like fasting and peace-makers that you wouldn't believe. abstinence. Six years ago, on a lovely Most of you belong to my group already: it spring afternoon before Palm Sunday, a is the Church that your parents fasted in small group of students, protesting Viet-for decades before fasting became fashion­nam, began a weekend fast and sit-in on able. (Hunger Coalition, I love you; I just the steps of the Administration Building. have to make my cheap remarks.) They sat there from Friday night until It is a crazy springtime when a man must Sunday night; but Saturday evening, it move out of his winter woolies into his began to snow. At midnight, people went seersucker suit at a time when the over to visit them, and the reports came snowdrifts should be shrouding the for-back that they were huddled under sythias. At the rate we are going, Easter blankets, passing thermoses among them may seem more like a summer festival than as though caffeine had been made a a celebration of resurrections. I think all of sacrament. I thought of monks and nuns us are in need of the Lenten interlude if watching before the Monstrance of the we are not going to be blinded by the sun Real Presence in the days before monas-that awakes us for ·picnics when our clocks teries and nunneries began to go out of tell us it is the middle of the night. 
!records! 
frampton comes aliue 
b!:f ted twardzik 
Peter Frampton's latest effort should get exquisite melody. Things pick up for the him kicked out of the musician's union. 
last selection, "I Wanna Go To The Sun", He's violated every rule of live recording, featuring a jerky rhythm and several and the album is a stunning success excellent guitar breaks from Frampton. because of it. Side three opens with "Penny For Your The band is two guitars, bass, and fhoughts," an appealing little acoustic drums, with an occasional piano or organ. guitar solo that runs less than two minutes. Three of four members sing, and the and is reminiscent of the Steve Howe instrumental backing is never muddy, projects that graced several Yes albums. 
never overpowering, and never distorted. It's misleading, however, since the remain· Hardly your average concert recording. der of the side is the heaviest sound of the Most of the words are actually intelligible, set. Especially "Money", which is based and throughout four sides, there's not one on a single repeated phrase, and is an 
drum solo. The elimination of concert interesting change of pace, as opposed to cliches like that is what makes this album some groups who use that technique so worthwhile. The instant impression is exclusively. Next is "Shine On", a rather 
that of youth, enthusiasm, and sincerity. undistinguished song which seems sort of Frampton doesn't scream at the audience pale compared to "Money". The final and carry on; he hardly speaks at all, but piece is the only non-original, "Jumping he's obviously giving all he's got. Jack Flash". It's nearly a Frampton The first side is the best. The songs are composition, being a very free adaptation 
of a reasonable length, never exceeding six bearing only a faint resemblance to the minutes. The band doesn't engage in Stones' version. It's used mainly as a wholesale improvisation; it's refreshing to vehicle for guitar solos, and as such, hear a group with some semblence of suffers. discipline. The initial cut, "Something's 
The last side consists of two numbers. 
Happening", is the first in a long series of "Lines On Face", a
First is My seven fine Frampton melodies, performed by a minute ballad with strong chord changesvoice that, while by no means outstanding, and a peaceful relief from the thunder of is clear, strong, and always in the the previous side. The album ends with foreground. "Doobie Wah" is next; a fourteen minutes of" Do You Feel Like We 
happy, danceable, innocent song. During Do". This" is essentially the best song on the entire album. the words never detract the album; and, had it been presented in from the enjoyment by trying to be an abridged form, would have been the profound, it's simply music to have a good undisputed gem of the set. As it is,time to. "Show Me The Way" follows, Frampton relaxes his admirable self-cont­another unmistakable Frampton tune, yet rol and delivers his most extended solos.
the songs never sound alike (another crime which are actually varied and melodic, notagainst standard live recordings.) 
like the frequent five-minutes-on-one-note The second side of the album reveals a type of affair. Also remarkable is the .. 
second side of Frampton, the balladeer. omission of a drum solo, those being"Alii Want To Be"and"Wind of Change" 
among the most common and least 
arc short pieces for solo voice and acoustic deserving sounds ever put on record. guitar. Peter's falsetto is less than perfect 
Words come hard on a day like this; emotions come easy, and you think to yourself that it would be easier to weep than to write. Spring has come too early, and it has caught you moody and out of sorts. Outside your window, kids are playing frisbee in front of the dining hall. Damn the kids! Damn the frisbees! Damn the flowers that are going to start pushing their inevitable little heads through the mud! You try to live your life in rhythm with the seasons, but it is not fair for March to come if February. It is not fair for the warm days to stretch you out of shape, and for the star-filled nights to fill you with the restlessness of April urgings. Hold back the robins! Postpone the Spring! It is bicentennial nonsense. It is an election year trick. It is the final illusion of the administration that brought us Watergate. 
Winter is, or should be, a prolonged meditation with a book and a pipe in front of the fireplace. It is a time for reading Dickens and Dostoevski. It is a season for conversations that end only after the fire has gone out, and the house is cold, and the final drop of nog has been drained from the jug. It is a period when man ponders his mortality, and relishes it. He doesn't need trumpet calls; he doesn't need dances. He only needs to feel comfortable and snug and secure. Interrupting him betimes with spring is as abrasive as though a Tschaikovsky symphony were interrupted by some tunes b_y the lnkspots. It is as disturbing as though after his dining on beef and ale, in the moments when there should be coffee and desserts and cigars, you forced him to stand on his head. 
Among all the chatter of how great the weather is, I want to raise a protest against the early Spring. I want to put picket lines around the March daisies. I want to hang in effigy the early bird that gets the worm. 
Thank God, Holy Mother Church knows 
how to interrupt this nonsense. Thank God, there is an Ash Wednesday coming next week. Nobody hurries up Lent on Holy Mother Church. Some years, she starts Lent early; other years, she starts Lent late. But, after consulting the moon and the tides (well, maybe not the tides), it is her choice. The seasons may forget to pace themselves properly, but the Church doesn't hurry up her calendar. You'll never on the former, but they show that his voice is indeed capable of standing alone. "Baby, I Love Your Way" retains the slow beat, but with the whole band. It's a soothing, relaxed song, with yet another 
'I 
Frampton Comes Alive is a thoroughly enjoyable record, one which quite a few musicians could learn a lot from, if they ever forgive Peter for making them look like amateurs. 


·~ -------~----,----,....,....­

* * 
* *
i * ATTENTION ; * 
* * 
; all members of ; * * 
i * THE SENIOR TRIP i * 
* * 
* to: F *
i * reeport, Bahamas i * 
* *
! there will be a meeting TONIGHT Friday at 7:00 ~ 
* *
* * 
; in the LIBRARY AUDITORIUM ~ 
* * 
* * 
* *
! this meeting is mandatory if you cannot attend i !: contact PATRICK DORE 8189 !* 
·******************************************************************: 
Friday, February 27~ 1976
the observer 
Easily expandable 
SMC to build sports complex 
(Continued from page 1) to cover the end courts, which allows only one game to be played on the middle court. These courts may be used for volleyball. basket­ball or tennis. 
Also on the second level is one 
big locker room with joint showers. 
·'This locker room will contain four 
team rooms making it possible for 
differ~nt teams to use the same 
locker room," Wernig explained. 
Energy conscious 
·'The building is really energy consen(ation conscious," Wernig continued. The walls of ·the building will be constructed from translucent material with fiber glass panels on either side allowing light to pass through. ''This means we won't need lights on during the dav. It's all natural light even on cl~udy days," Wernig mentioned. 
Equipment cost is also part of the $1.4 million plans. "The actual equipment cost is minimal, but the signal system and bleachers which are considered equipment, were the most expensive," Wernig said. ··we already have the gymnastic equipment from previous years." 
The tennis courts north of Mc­
Candless will be taken down to 
make room for the new center 
which will extend to the campus 
school parking lot. 
Faculty women share talents, entertain sm·an audience 
by Jean O'Meara 
Staff Reporter 
A poet, artist. fiction writer and musician, all members of the College of Arts and Letters, shared their creativity with a relatively small audience in the Memorial Library auditorium last evening. 
Sonia Gernes. assistant profes­sor of English, set the mood for the evenings. quoting from earlier American poets who brought a distinctly feminine flavor to their art. 
Gernes. twice winner of the Pacitic Northwest Writers Poetry Contest, read from her own work, "Gift for a Stranger." In this semi-autobiographical narrative the poet constructs an imaginary portrait of her own great-great­grandmothe.r, a farm woman from whom she inherited the poetic gift. 
Instructor in sculpture, Moira Marti Geoffrion traced her own development in soft sculpture by showing slides of African masques. 
These primative headresses with dark-wood faces framed in fur or soft woven hair and cloth inspired her work. 
Geoffrion showed her growing interest in contrasting fabrics, feathers and most recently. weaving and quilting. Consistent in her art is what she calls ''the feminine type form, the embryonic shape...perhaps the womb." 
Slides of her most recent work, recently displayed in the Notre Dame art gallery, express the dimensions which are vital to Geoffrion. 
"I want people to touch the 
JULIO'S 
NOW HAS 
PAN 
PIZZA!!! 
PHONE 232-7919 
... .I • .; • • ~ .. ~ ,....... 
''These courts are now in bad shape and it.would cost $10,000 to repair tliem," Wernig said. "T}le. cost of tearing down the courts is figured into the building costs and we're not wasting 'everyjhing ... The backboard and fenc'ng around the courts can· still be used," Wernig added. 
According to President John M. Duggan, the center is "designed so that we can easily expand in the future." A second phase of building will include a pool, softball and field hockey fields, a quarter­mile track and tennis courts to replace those torn down. 
"I think it's good·that it's being built with the idea to add on,"We­mig commented. The addition of a pool to the original plan would raise the cost from $1.4 million to $2.5 to $3 million. The additions included in the second phase must wait until after the library .renovations are made whicn is to be financed after the new sports center.. 
Future pool 
The pool will be added to the west end of the builqing where the electrical fixtures will be located. "This way we won't have to build more fixtures when we add the pool," Wernig said. 
St. Mary's Angela Hall which 
fabrics, to move into the forms that invite them. It's really funky!" Geoffrion exclaimed. 
Delores Warwick Frese, assis­tant professor of English, and , author of two novels, Promised , Spring and Learn to Say Goodbye, 1 read from her new short story "The I Funeral Game." . 
The story focuses on an ordinary·I middle-aged woman whose blue­collar life is gradually unravelled· on the eve before her son's funeral. The contrast of grotesque and, ordinary aspects of her relationship with her family reveal a woman of greater dimension. This story, Frese said, is one in a collection of' short storeis, Women Alone, to be published soon. 
In a contemporary mood, Seid' and Marie Parnell, member of the music faculty,. played YISKOR In Memoriam, by Oedoen Partoes for piano and violin. . 
She is the conductor of the I Notre Dame Chapel Choir and liturgical music coordinator for Sacred Heart Parish. 
**************** 


......... 
Student poll planned 
College Republicans organizing 

by Bob Brink Staff Reporter 
The primary objective of the College Republicans, according to Leo Buchignani, program chairman of the club,is to build a strong, workable organization now, in or­der to be ready for the fall presidential electio~. . . 
To do this. Buch1gnam sa1d, the club hopes to take a survey of the entire campus this spring to deter­mine who is interested in helping republican candidates in local. state. and federal elections. Also, many of the club's leaders are 
seniors. Theclub hopes to strength­en itself by preparing new leader­ship. which will be elected in A!Jril . for the work ahead. The club, which has 55 mem­bl·rs, is a member of the Indiana Federation of College Republicans. It conducts activities jointly with St. Mary's. Huchignani said that the club "has a large voice on the state level." He pointed out that Sally Pratt. chairperson of the club, was elected to till a short term for State Chairperson of the Indiana Feder­ation. and that the club vice-pres­i<knt. .Jon Sieve, is the parliamen­tarian of the state orgainzation. The club held a meeting last Wednesday night at which Otis Romine, Clay Township Trustee, 
8-ba/1 pep rally 
There will be a basketball pep rally tonight at 6:30 in the ACC Pit. Featured speakers include Head Coach Digger Phelps and co-cap­tains Adrian Dantley and Bill Paterno 
: COLLEGE EDUCATION : * * 
~ corner of Logan and Jefferson ~ * *
! FINEST ! : 24 HOUR RESTAURANT : : IN MICHIANA : 
* ~ catering to !* ! ND-SMC LATE NIGHT NEEDS ! 
!* FEATURING COLLEGIATE SPECIAL · !* ** "JACK OMELET" * 
* *** Daily Lunch Special Hamburgers **,._* *
* * 
: BREAKFAST SERVED ANYTIME~ * * 
*••·······················~········· 
Ir-------------------------,
RADIATOR I 
I f<e,>airing !
I I
uwE CAN HANDLE THE TOUGH ONES"" 
I SINCE 1922 I
1 289-5850 1 
I 
I 

I I I I 
• 
CLEANING • RECORING I 

• 
CAS TANK REPAIRING 


I 
'"TOUGH GUY"" 
Weldinq -Heaters I 

F:eet Truck Contracts Welcome 
I 
SAME DAY SERVICE 
I I 
1136 MISHAWAKA I­I I I "IF YOU HAVE A ROUGH TRIP AHEAD
I I 
I OF YOU, CHECK OUT THE I I 'TOUGH GUYS'." . 
~r-~-------------------...--~-J 
was the featured speaker. 
''He spoke to us on getting involved," said Buchignani, "and on making an honest contribution to the political process. He empha­sized that there was a lot of opportunity for getting significant things done, and that he would 
help  us  in any  way  he  could  in  
getting  involved  in  St.  Joseph's  
County."  

Buchignani said that the club will be involved in local politics in the future. "We will be working with the local county organization on the state representative and senate races this fall." he stated. 
Buchignani also outlined future plans and goals of the club. First, a newsletter containing the New Hampshire election results will be distributed on campus. 
''The club then plans to conduct a telephone survey of about 300 Notre Dame students who have expressed a Republican preference to determine which of the candi­dates, Ford or Reagan. the sup­port," said Buchignani. Club mem­bers Kevin Richardson and Chad Tiedemann are in charge of the survey. 
State Representative Bob Du­Comb, whom the club helped elect in 1974, will come to campus during the second week of April to report to his constituents at an open meeting. 
Concerning the Indiana primary on May 4, Buchignani commented that "the club hopes to provide an opportunity for people to get
involved in the Ford and Reagan campaigns." "We will have speakers in from the two campaigns to present their positions. However, since the club cannot take a oosition in the 
primary. it will be up to the 
individual members to form candi­
date committees," he said. 
"It's not beyond our potential to bring a presidential candidate to the campus," Buchignani added. "There's no way to say, but it's possible." 
Meeting tonight for Sr. 'trippers' 
A meeting will be held tonight, at 7 p.m. in the library auditorium for all those who are attending the Senior Class Trip to Freeport, Bahamas. 
At the meeting all travel arr­angements and travel regnbtions will be explained as well as all the plans for the week. The meeting will be very important and answer all questions concerning the trip. All those students who have not paid their balances should bring that with them. Also all room reservations should be returned at this meeting. 
Other plans were recently re­leased by the Senior Class Officers. The Senior Fellow elections will be held on Tuesday, Mar. 2. The Senior Ball committee under the direction of Rick Guiltnan has begun planning that event with a tentative date of Saturday. May 8. 
WANTED -------------­
Need 2 Western Mich. tickets. your C''asszi.l,z·ed Ads Stratus: Quality rock'n 
roll at rea.
f1 ~ sonable rates.
price. Call Bob, 234-0267. 
;;;-;;~~-~~-;--;;-a-;-;~-e-;;--;or 
Marquette GA tickets. Call 8334. 
Wanted: Vehicle able to transport, less than $60.00. Call 1108. 
Student or GA tix for Western Mich. 
Will pay bucks. Call 289-9793. Just transferred from there, need many Western Mich. B-ball tixs. Student-GA. Call Don, 1008. 
Desperate tor 2 GA or student Marquette fix. Will pay$$$. Please call 7801 anytime. 
Desperately need any NCAA fix. Call Laura, 4264, Any price!!!. 
Want to trade my 2 GA Marquette 
fix tor 2 NCAA  regional  fix.  Call  
289-5231.  
Wanted:  Your  laundry  to  do.  
Complete  finishing  and  pressing.  

Fast service. Monticello Laundro­mat, 441 E. Howard St., Ph 289­
Q.Q~;_ ____________ 
Need 5 Marquette tickets. Call Eileen or Marion, 6798. 
Desperately need 1 GA Marquette ticket. Call Stacy, 6893. 
Wanted: 2 Marquette fix. Please call Terri, 28 7-6638. 
Need GA and student tickets for Marquette badly. Please call Pat, 1654. 
Wanted-Need desperately as many Marquette fix as possible. Call Peggy, 6896. 
Depserately need GA Marquette tickets. Call Tom at 7781. 
Need Marquette tickets. Call Joe at 287-5113. 
Need many Western Mich. fix!! Call 233-9841 after 10 p.m. 
Need Western Mich. fix. Call Joan, 1327. 
Must have 3 Marquette fix. CAll John, 1462. 
Need Marquette tickets. Call Ron, 8917. 
Need Marquette tickets. Call 4773, Camille. 
Need ride to Illinois State Univ, Feb. 
27. CAll 4773. Camille. 
Desperately need 1 or 3 Marquette GA fix at your price. CAll Gary, 3326. 
Help a young girl find happiness under the golden dome. 2 GA Marquette tickets, please!! Christie, 6800. 
Need 2 GA Marquette fix. Call Tim, 8685. 
Need 3 Marquette fix. Call Russ, 287-3897. 
Desperately need 2 GA ~arquette tickets -call Ward, 1697. 
As many Western Michigan tickets as you are willing to sell. Call Phil, 98-9164. 
fTiday·,  February 27, :1976  the observer  7  
4 ACADEMY AWARD  
NOMINATIONS!!!!  
how many times  
have you seen  
shampoo?  
warren beatty  
julie christie · goldie hawn  
rn1m Columbia PldurM  "Ptln~ky-BriRhiiVIIt• Feature  
!  WEEK Nl'lNi AT 7 & 9 :...-...-...........~ :...,...._ :...-...-............., Management-oriented ~  
;i  Sales Trainees  - 
= 

~ Ed Fanning Chevrolet, located in Aurora, illinois (soon to! be the second largest city in the state of illinois), will be on ! 
Jl'! campus Thesday, March 9, 1976 to recruit management-on-Jl'! ~ ented sales trainees who would be interested in a career ~ ~ · opportunity with outstanding growth potential in the retail ~ ~ automobile business. We are interested in young, ;~~~ ~ aggressive sales personnel who will have the knowledge and ~ ~ ability to grow with the future plans of the company, who will ~! be able to move on into management positions and become ~ Jl'! leaders of men. Jl'! ~ ~~personnel we ~ seeking should have the desire for an ! ~ ambitious career which would lead them to dealershiP ~ ~ management-ownership. Jl'! 
~..............................................................................................~ 
j 
;-e~;;r~;,-;n-;e~~d';'h,(~ih;;:;;ia 
tor Spring break. Can leave anytime. Please call Charlie, 8822. 
Need 2 GA Marquette fix. Mary, 1285. 
Ride needed to DC-Baltimore are tor spring vacation. Will drive, pay and bring chocolate chip cookies. Call 7802. 
Two girls need ride to Chicago area Friday. Call Mary, 4537, or 4438. 
Need ride to Purdue this weekend! Call 4954. 
Desperate! Need ride to Ft. Lauder­dale tor spring break. Call 4430. 
Desperately need 4 GA Marquette tickets. Call Chris, 272-1400. 
Wanted: 2 Marquette tix. Call Peggy, 6661. 
Try me first!!!! Need Marquette fix, GA or students. Marti, 1329. 
WANTED: Sales Person that is willing to put out the effort to make good money. Cannot be bashful. Apply in person to Honda of Michiana, 4035 US 31 South, South Bend. 
FOR SALE 
T-shirts, T-shirts, T-shirts tor clubs & dorms. Call Dave, 277-0948. 
1968 Dodge Charger 318, automatic, power steering. Great cond. Snow tires & Mag wheels included. $600. Call 272-1710, or 272-4777 after 5:30 pm. 
Disneyland Murals from Mardi Gras tor sale. Call 1348. 
For Sale: Dual 1218 complete with AT 13ea Cartridge. Steve. 1024. 
Fired: Must sell stereo components, 259-8447, 6-9 pm. 
For Sale: Nikon S3. 35mm Range­finder, 50mm, 11.4 Nikkor Lens. Paul, 8131. 
For Sale: Blank ·S-track 90 min. Memorex tapes at a bargain price. Call Lisa, 8089. 
FOR RENT 
Next school year -9 month lease. Two furnished houses -4 bedroom and 5 bedroom. Near NO. CAll 234-2626. 
For Rent: Furnished Houses, two to seven bedroom. Available tor Sep­tember or June. Call 234-9364. 
Summer houses and rooms tor rent­real close to campus. Furnished, ridiculously reasonably priced. 233-2613 or 232-7263. 
4, 5, 6 Bedroom Houses completely furnished extremely nice. Real close to campus. September 1976, 9 month lease. 233-2613 or 232-7263. 
2 Rooms torrent, !40. Call233-1329. 
NOTICES 
Typing, 35l1 page. Pick-up and deli­very, $2.00. Call Dan, 272-5549. 
Neil, 289-9763. 
T:::;:,~~-;-r-;:-i;;:~::;-~t 
costs of getting there. Vans & cars to many points in USA. CAll Auto Driveaway, 232-1414. 
Rich Man, Poor Man, now at Pandora's Books. 937 So. Bend Ave. 10:00-7:00 daily. 
IBM Selectric II typing. Manu­scripts, dissertation. Experienced, 289-5193. 
Accurate, fast typing, Mrs. Donoho, 232-0746. 
LOST & FOUND 
LOST: Gold man's Benrus wrist­watch in front of W aIsh. 1875. 
LOST: In ACC locker room . 1 gold braided wedding band. Reward offered -no queslions asked. 277 .. 1568 or 283-7516. 
PLEASE!! If you found blue wallet, return to 229 Badin or NO lost and found. Brenda, 6936. 
PERSONALS 
Secret Worshipper: Had Bobo but world enough and time, thy coyness lady(?) would be no crime. But Bobo has always been a hasty lover so please reveal yourself soon!! 
Angolan Warmonger 
Quickie to Michigan Saturday. Buses from the Main Circle 8:30, 9:00, 9:30, 10:00, 11:00. 12:00. 12:30, 1:00, 1:30. 
Scare Crow, 
Let's  make  hay  while  the  sun  
shines.  
Beantown Boy.  

Scarecrow: What! What! What! What! 
Uncle Charlie's hush money was paid but not by any of the members of 336 W aIsh Hall. Who else would know the secret and not want it told????? 
"There are lots of ways to get to Pittsburgh." Gay Community of Notre Dame. Hotline 8870, Fri. and Sat. 8-10 pm. Or write P.O. Box, 206. 
WHY PAY MORE? Get your green & gold, blue & gold, or red & blue rugby shirt for $13.00. Call Dave, 277-0948. 
HAVING A PARTY? Call Dave for low discounts in kegs and cases. Free delivery, 277-0948. 
Chris, Your rappy wishes you a happy, belated 21st. (Sorry this i~ late). 
Illinoisans: Can you spare a week-· end to help in Governor Walker's campaigning tor re-election? Trans­portation, lodging, and meals provi. ded. For details, call this week. Cathy, 284 4103. 
About that problem: Have you thought that maybe alcohol IS the problem? Call Peggy Barnum, 8809, alcohol counselor, Universl~~ lnfir­mar . 


-----~-----------­
Friday, February 27, 1976
8 the observer 
M~Quire brings Warrior act tqnJ2~.!I 
Sports Editor Guire owns a strong bench. 
Pinned to the bulletin board of Freshman Bernard (loony) Toone the Notre Dame locker room is a has a 5.9 scoring average and Ulice picture of Bo Ellis taken from the Payne is also a strong reserve. Marquette basketball guide. In "They're all good," says Phelps, typical Marquette fashion he is clad reluctant to single out any key in a kingly robe. wearing a crown player for the Warriors. "Tatum is and holding a scepter. Written as good a forward as we've seen across the picture several times in all year, Ellis is a good rebounder. large print is 'BOX OUT'. Next to I saw Lloyd Walton take charge of that is a picture of Butch Lee, clad that team two years ago in the in a monk's outfit. The instructions NCAA regionals, and he hasn't let read 'FORCE TO LEFT' and up since." ·KEEP HAND IN FACE'. Across The Warriors will throw several 1 he room on another wall is the different zone defenses at the Irish, ·'l)\'Cr of the recent Sporting News, constantly switching and changing \\ith the Warriors' Earl Tatum on to upset NO's offensive tlow. In the front. The title is "We are last year's 71-68 win. thev stitled 1Boom Boom) Marquette", the Irish All-American Adrian Dantley. Warriors famous chant. holding him to 17 points. A 
The~· certainly are Marquette, box-and-one on Dantley, or a and they arc here tomorrow after-triangel-and-two on A.D. and noon at I fur a duel with the Irish another Irish player will probably of Nl)trc Dame. And the Warriors be used, as well as a variety ot· seldom do anything without a other zones. Marquette will also boom. In fact. what all the locker use a full-court man press from room papaphenalia indicates is that time to time. 
· · f 'NO's Digger Ph e1ps and Marquette's AI McGuire always provide much of the entertainment in 
you don t JUst prepare or the h h I , t d" . I I h Offensively. the Warriors are a 
W . h b k b II t e sc oo s ra •bona c as . M G . , f 1 . "Th .. 
arnors on t e as et a court. Barnum, has never been one to c u~re s ere~ o _P ~ye~s. 1s a ey play real smart now, control team. setting up patiently 
Led by two of the most colorful, hide his feelings, and Irish coun-coll_ectwn of emgmat1c mdividuals notes ~helps. "They control the and waiting for the good shot. dynamic coaches in the college terpart Digger Phelps rarely lets wh1c~ go together about as well as ball w1th a patient offense and They are by no means slow. game. the Notre Dame-Marquette himself be upstaged. gasol_me and fire, and t~~t usual\~ they:ll switch. defenses on you all however, possibly being the fastest contests in past years have in-The Warriors' regal costumes provides all the BOOM the time. We ve got to play smart overall team NO has faced all year. eluded some of the greatest psyche are then only proper for a game required. But they play together too, read the defenses and adapt." How Phelps decides to defense tactics. acting exhibitions, strategy that has become one of the finest on the court near-perfectly, having f them. along with what defense!>
· King o the Warrior court is 
and counter-strategy 111 any sport. theatrical events ever. But some-blasted their way to a 22-1 record McGuire will employ is all part of 
· h AI M G · h senior swingman Earl Tatum. The
Warnor coac c Ulre, w 0 where in between it all will be some and second place in the national the constant strategy which takes
former star at Mt. Vernon High
puts on a better show thatn P. . T of the finest basketball around too. ran kings. School in New York has come alive place during every Marquette-Notre Dame clash.
this season to average 19.2 points a
Ma c A f.e e and B---__rownerm a ke ~::~·nd;.hi~at~~~~i~n~m~~~~ n~i~ m~;lt~~t~~J m;~!f;s ofexc~~?;;~g
• h• • B •f• I ••d own» d•nling oot<idc •hot. "We'll g<t theodgc, then they'll tcy bIrt.reT!m~ros In"ri" ~p!!~!'s ':.!!'B~detl~~~ '"~ ~~::f:i~&;l~~:;~;~~~~ ~~;~:jJ:~~~~;:;)~~:;t;:or,~;
They waited over three hours to In a match of quickness and a profuse nose bleed. scorer for the Warriors. Ellis has Phelps will be counting on his see the titans war in the semi-finals agility, Jim Quinn staggered Bobby Barlett no~ faces the affable Dan given way this season to the other balanced scoring attact and his f th 45th A I B I B t W II "th · f · ht · b d R · · h scorers and has concentrated on his dazzling bench to counter the
o e nnua enga ou s. a s w1 a senes o rig Ja san uettiger In t e 175-pound cham-expected 'stop Dantley' tactics. 
Finally the moment c~me when e~rned the right to face Kevin ~ion ship round. Ruettiger, looking rebounding, an effort which has Fine performances by Dave Batton the first of two heavyweight fights Ricotta the 150-pound final Sun-hke the infuriated "Wildman of earned him nearly ten caroms per began Thirty seconds later the day Ricotta outdistanced Rich B" B " · d "II d h" game. He is scoring at a 12.4 clip. and Don 'Duck' Williams lately
. . . • · Is orneo, wm m1 e Is way over have strengthened the Irishs' 
fi_rst bout_ cam~ to a rapid conclu-to earn the berth. Tom Plouff. The shorter Ruettiger Heading the backcourt is senior . 
swn as Irish grtdder Ken MacAfee A pair of unanimous decisions knocked down Plouff in the second Lloyd Walton, a seasoned player showmgs. He is also hoping that 
freshman sensation Bruce Flowersfelled John Vellutato with a power-sent John Albers and Joe Cooler round, landing a right which sent who excels in assists and is adding 
· h h · s • 5 breaks out of his early-foul trouble
fuI ng t ook. mto unday s 15 -pound champ-him into the ropes, just before the I 0 3 . points per game. Sophomore "I just wanted to wint ~he fight" ionship. Albers fought an aggres-bell rang. Butch Lee, hitting 13.5, is the other syndrome so that he can get into MacAfee explained. ".1 was really sive, heady fight, while Cooler Chet Zawalich gained entrance guard. At center for the Warriors the tlow of the game more. · d I t ff t a · k • tdueIed much t II t into th fimaeI f the 18S d is J·unior college trans"er ,, Jerome Notre Dame, season nowhome21·4, will closethe
anxious an go o o qlilc ou a a er opponen e o ~ -poun out the at with start. He left himself open and I hit in Matt McGrath. class, by strongly pounding junior Whitehead, a 6-10 sophomore who Warriors tomorrow and Western him with a good right." Irish defensive back Randy Shane Carew. Zawalich will face is averaging nearly nine points per 
J . w If Michigan Monday night. 
While MacAfee was unduly cruel Payne squared off against sopho-1m o e Sunday. game. in his quick disposal of Vellutato, more Matt Ratterman and the Wolfe _turne~ a. close battle _with star defensive end Ross Browner result was an intense battle which Dan Dztlewskt mto a decided was much kinder to his opponent, featured multi-punched tlurries. victory by knocking out the bat­
.. Irish icers host Duluth 
linebacker Ed Glecker, in the final When the smoke cleared Ratter-tered foe. Wolfe first bloodied same score) are a better team than 
heavyweight bout. Glecker shyed man was heading into th~ finals of Dzwilewski's nose and then used a by Tom Kruczek last year and a better team than away from the more powerful the 165-pound class and Payne, series of combination punches be­This weekend, the last home people gave them credit for at the Browner and Ross came out ahead along with some of the crowd, fore landing a hard right which sent series of the season, is a must for start of the year.with a unanimous verdict from the wondered of the split-decision. the off-campus senior down for the the Notre Dame hockey team One of the major improvements
as judges. The Browner victory sets "It's a shame it had to come final count. they take on the Bulldogs of has been in the goal, with Rob up a grand heavyweight finale down to a split,'' Ratterman con­Minnesota-Duluth. But before you Heinz handling most of the chores.
There are plenty of tickets available 
Sunday afternoon. curred. "Both of us got tagged put this article down, no, this isn't Heinz is a sophomore and last year 
for Sunday's finals. The action will 
"I respect MacA fee a lot," pretty good out there. It was tough get underway at Nappy a reprint of articles that have been had a 4.8 goals against average.
2 p.m.
Browner explained. "But I will to sav who had the edge." run for the past two weeks. Also we This year that average is 4.4 in 28
promises some special exhibition
have to be in much better shape. Ratterman will fight Brian aren't using old quotes and just games, and has shown moments of
bouts.
Ken and I have sparred before, but Temme, who earned an unpopular trying to update them by inserting brilliance in the pressure spot.
Jim Browner and Doug Becker,
neither of us showed anything to unanimous victory over Tom Kelly. Bulldogs in place of Huskies or Forward Tom Milani (S-8, 165)
the only fighters in the 200-pound
each other.'' If they had a bucket underneath 
Spartans. who is in the WCHA top ten in
category, will square off before the
The prelude to the heavyweights the participants of the Casey It's just a case that the Irish for scoring will be looked on as the
heavyweight final. 
kept the 5,123 fight fans--a Ben-Land-Jeff Bartle, fight. there would the past two weekends have faced primary goal threat. Milani has
CBS Sports is planning to air a
gals' semi-final record--very alive. have been enough blood to donate teams that they had to beat to gain exceptional quickness according to In all there were 20 fights on the to the Red Cross. Barlett won the segment on Monday night's nat­a home-ice advantage for the Smith and has 23 goals and 28
ional news telecast on the entire
night in weight classes that ranged 
fight via a unanimous decision as 
play-offs, and this week is not an assists.
Bengal Bouts.
from 125 pounds up to the over-185 neither exception. As the season winds to a Defenseman Dave Langevin is pack. · close, the Irish, according to coach the second leading scorer on the 
After Bob Mohan gained a Charles (Lefty) Smith's not-too­team with 19 goals and 23 assists. split-decision from Terry Philbin in modest estimate need to win three The senior is also one of the most the first encounter of the evening,. of their last four games to gain that physical players on the not-so Chuck Patton and Dan Romano advantage. The left-over game can physical Bulldog team. Gus Hen­hooked up in one of the best be perhaps a tie, but not a loss. drickson is in his first year as coach 
lightyweight battles in the storied Certainly the Irish (13-13-2 in of Minnesota-Duluth. history of the Bengals. WCHA action and 16-14-2 overall) As for the goaltending situation, Using his left in the first and have their work cut out for them. John Peterson will get the start on second rounds to varied effective­They remain alone in fifth place Friday, but Saturday is still up in 
ness, Romano came out in third with 28 points, 14 points behind the air. stanza with powerful right which league leader Michigan Tech. The ·r he next two series are for all was to leave Patton dazed and Huskies last weekend swept North practical matters sudden-death. 
bleeding by the end of the bout. Dakota while the rest of the league One loss, as Smith calculates will 
In the 1JS-forum, Dave Reyna predictably split. The Irish are virtually put Notre Dame out of won a close fight from Brian just two points behind fourth place contention for a home spot for the Diamond. The Keenan sophomore Michigan who tangles with Min­play-offs. But as Smith points out, 
was the aggressor most of the way nesota this weekend. Minnesota is he isn't giving up hope. against the taller Diamond. Reyna in third place with 33 points while They had best not let down, will· face Dave Tezza, a Grace Michigan State is in second with because one down moment and a 
sophomore, who easily handled 34. Colorado College is right be­loss will force the Irish to open the 
Mike Healy in the other 135-bout. hind Notre Dame with 27 while play-offs on the road. Face-off both 
Pat O'Connell and Mike Murphy Minnesota-Duluth (12-16-0 in nights is at 7:30p.m. were the victors in the 145-pound WCHA and 15-17-0 overall) has 24 Tickets are still on sale for the class. O'Connell outslugged Greg in seventh place. series with students with ID paying Bachman after starting off on the The Bulldogs, who earlier split $1.50 while adult ducat's cost $3. defensive.· Murphy easily dis­with the Irish (Notre Dame won They are on sale now at gate 10,~att, Ratterman won a close decision over Randy Payne in last 
posed of Bob Jeanguenat with a Friday 4~3 and lost Saturday by the and at the ice rink before the game
mght s Bengal Bouts. (Photo by Paul Clevinger) both nights. 


