
server 
Tuesday, September 21, 1976 
-,..,:'. ,._ --­
.,..._7~i-

Presidential debate planned 1 f_:,,_.__ -• 
l 'P'r"' .." 
...P~--.--­
-~-j

for telecast in Carroll Hall ..,;.:.;.,_!...­
casts. will take part in the informal r-;;t -·­-...l:::-7. !">'
Cathy Coyne, vice-president for discussions. academic affairs in student govern­Coyne explained the reason for 
-.... r-.
..,...__ ­

ment, is co-sponsoring the showing academic affairs' interest in the with Notre Dame and St. Mary's event. "Dr. Duggan has indicated government departments. Govern• that he would like to see more ment teachers from both schools intellectual debate and discussion 
on the St. Mary'.s campus." She continued, "One of my goals is to schedule events that will aid in building up this sense of intellec­tual interest outside the class­room. 
·'This all sounds great on pap­er." she added. "but it would be nice to hear contemporary issues discussed on Friday and Saturday . nights instead of how loaded you're going to get." 
Coyne stressed the point that the elections may very well be deter­mined through these debates. She added it is important for those students who are not aware of the issues or the candidates positions to take advantage of these telecasts and discussions. 

Conrad opposes Bowen tax plan 
by Katie Kerwin package ·'wrapped with Christmas promise to eliminate the business Senior Staff Reporter ribbon." He contended that it inventory tax, the Tribune story said. ·
provides a bonanza for ~ig _c~rpora­tions at the expense of mdtvtduals, Conrad rebutted a claim Bowen
Larrv Conrad, Democratic can­who are faced with a doubled sales made Saturday that when there has didate· for governor, discusst:d a tax, the Trihune story said. been unfavorable news about the

pm1sible gasoline tax increase, a [Photo by Dominick Yocius] 
Conrad called for a "progres­Republican administra­proposal for open-door government sive, graduated income tax" and a tion. the public and the mediameetings and his plan for a program for financing education heard it from the governor's officegraduated income tax in a meeting without reliance on the property first, AP reported. 
Sunday. 
tax. "When ti1ese problems have 
Huddle being repaired
Conrad also criticized the Bowen Conrad placed a large mea~~re erupted, it has been the press andAdministration for failure to follow of the responsibility for high uttltty the reporters bringing them to the by Bob Varettoni assistant director of maintenance,through on promised utility reform, rates on Bowen and the Public attention of the public," Conrad
for inadequate correctional institu­Staff Reporter said repairs would be completed as
Servie Commission appointed by said. ''And it is the governor and soon as possible. University per·tions and for poor highway main­
the governor. his aides who have appointed study 
sonnel started work on the stairway Conrad has frequently called the commissions and hidden the prob­Three Notre Dame students Monday morning. 
tenance, according to a story in the 
South Bend Tribune yesterday. 
price of utilities "the number one lems from the public under more drove a golf cart into the stairway ·'The cost of the damage cannotConrad charged his opponent, Gov. 
issue in the governor's race" and agencies and bureaus." outside the north entrance of the be determined at this time." saidOtis Bowen, with unfulfilled pro­has accused Bowen of failing to Bowen Saturday conceded cor­Huddle late Sunday night. Moorman. "We won't know thatmises, growing bureaucracy and 
deliver promised reforms in this rectional institution reform to be Arthur Pears, Notre Dame direc­
until the work is completed and the ineffective leadership. 

area. his one a.rea of disappointment tor of security, said that three white man-hours can be counted. I willAddressing a meeting in South 
during his administration, the Tri­

Bend of the Indiana Associated Although Conrad has acknow­males were responsible for the not even be able to give an estimate 
ledged that Bowen has recom­bune related. He did not
"extensive damage." until after I talk with the workersPress Managing Editors' Associa­mended a utility rate formula Conrad attacked the governor's release the names of the students. sometime Tuesday.·· 
tion, Conrad said he cannot elimin­similar to his own, he has blamed penal reform record, saying, "The He also reported no injuries. Security reported the incidentate the possibility of a gasoline tax Bowen for not putting enough governor doesn't seem to be in ·'The students who are responsi­occured at II :20 pm. Thomasincrease next year, if he is elected. 
pressure on the Republica_n-con­control of our government. It is ble have already been contacted," Grogan, manager of the Huddle.
"I wouldn't rule it out. Those trolled House of Representatives to inconceivable that the governor Pears said. "They will be expected was not aware of it until he came toare the kind of hard decisions that 
get the measure passed. was unaware of the problems in our to pay the bill for the damages." 
work Monday morning. "I reallyare going to be coming around next He also charged that unemploy­prisons, while young men are being The golf cart leveled the top part don't know anything about it."

year." However, Conrad said he is ment has declined in Indiana raped and women packed into of a two foot brick wall which runs Grogan said, "but I'm happy it's"running studies" on the problem 
because Bowen did not fulfill a rooms." beside the steps. John Moorman, being fixed."
and will have a proposal by next month for highway funding. "We're going to need more money from somewhere for high­way maintenance,'' Conrad stated. Besides an increase in the eight­cents per gallon gasoline excise by Virginia McGowan apathetic as a group, Hesburgh 
tax, he said other possibilities Staff Reporter commented, "I would like to think 
include a graduated scale, placing 
that in the vanguard of people a higher tax on higher consump­making a better world, there would 
tion, and an increase in the University President Theodore be Notre Dame people." He four-cents sales tax on gasoline emphasized that one third of the
~=~eur;t~:;:;a~:e~~;:y t~~ ~~~: 
alone, according to an Associated 
serious about education and less Notre Dame student body is cur­Press (AP) story. 
rently active in some organization.

Conrad said Bowen transferred ~~~:!c~~~:naf~~~~~~f~ali~ ,::te~~;~~ Hesburgh also stressed a politi­$20 million last winter from the before 60 Howard Hall residents. cal reawakening by the present and state general fund to highway future American leaders. ·'ThereCiting the 60's as a time of great maintenance "Just to avoid a social concern, Hesburgh noted are a lot of people in America whogasoline tax increase until after the "Now 1 think that's over, and the are not getting a fair share of theelection.'' 
American dream, and there are astudents are more serious aca­"Even with this action," Conrad 

demically... lot of people in political life who added, "our Hoosier highways are "What I wish is we had the don't care about that," he said.
unsafe and deadly.'' 
studiousness of today which was Commenting that the U.S. bud­The Democratic gubernatorial almost completely lacking in the gets $130 million· "just to buildcandidate also pledged his support revolutionary years and the social stuff to destroy people," Hesburghto ·an open-door law that would concern that I think is terribly called for a development of politi­require that government meetings important," he continued. . cians who are concerned with thebe open to the public, according to "I have a feeling that students of heart of America. He declined tothe AP story. Bowen, who spoke today will get turned on if you turn indicate his preference for Pres­before the editors Saturday, also them on but you have to work ident.
promised his administration's sup­pretty hard at it," he said. Hesburgh also lamented the lack port next year for the law. 
Questioned by Jim Daly, Howard of value education in universities ofConrad cr· · ·i7Pd Bowen's tax vice-president, as to whether Hes-· today. He held that the mostplan, calling it an "inequitable" [Photo by Dominick Yocius] buq~h considers the student body [continued on page 3! 


Tuesday, September 21, 1976
the observer 


~--News Briefs--~ 
I:==:=======~=~==Intemational 

Lebanon war 
BROTIY* Lebanon -Lebanon sank deeper in its bloodbath Monday after the collapse of yet another effort to end the 17-month-old civil 
-war. The casualty toll in the latest 24-hour period since the collapse of a tripartite Lebanese-Syrian-Palestinian peace conference at Chtoura Sunday, was 110 killed and 150 wounded, according to hospital estimates 

British ship sinks 
LONDON -Two British warships collided Monday in the North Sea and one capsized and sank, causing the deaths of two sailors, the Defense Ministry announced. Ten men were listed as missing. The ministry gave no cause for the collision. 
================!:=:=======National 

Bisexual Elton John 
SAN FRANQSCO -Flamboyant rock music superstar Elton John says he is bisexual but would like to settle down with a woman. He would rather fall in love with a woman eventually because a woman probably lasts longer than a man, the pianist told RoBing Stone Magazine. 
Martha Mitchell silenced 
NEW YORK -Martha Mitchell was convinced that members of the Nixon administration induced the bone marrow cancer, that eventually killed her, a blood specialist who treated Mrs. Mitchell says. She suspected the disease had been brought on by tranquilizers she claimed were injected into her in California in 1972 to insure her silence at the outbreak of the Watergate scandal. 
.,.__On Campus Today----... 
4:30pm seminar. "historical roots of the species problem" by dr. philip sloan, n.d. galvin aud. coffee at 4 pm. 
6:30pm placement night for students in graduate school of business administration. engineering aud. 
7:00pm lecture on self defense. given by south bend police dept. lewis hall recreation room. 
700 pm AIESEC meeting for new members. Iafortune ballroom. 
7:15 & film. franco zeffirelli's production of shakespeare's 9:45pm 
"romeo and juliet" engineering aud. sponsored by the english dept. 
7:30pm panel discussion. "the grain in the stone" with enrico 
f. plati, n.d.,robert_ p. mcintosh, n.d., penelope van esteri k, n. d. library lounge. 
7:30pm charismatic prayer meeting. Iafortune student center. 2nd floor rm. d. 
8:00pm reception. ladies of notre dame reception for newcomers, 14th floor, library. 
8:00pm american chemical society meeting. science hall-st. mary's rm. 105. 
6:45pm meeting. college republicans. lib'"ary auditorium. 

Bikathon slated for Oct. 3 
By Frank Kebe Staff Reporter 

The first annual American Dia­betes Bikathon will be held in the greater South Bend area on Sun­day. Oct. 3. ftom 9 am to 5 pm. The bikathon is sponsored by the Notre Dame Circle K Club in conjunction with the American Diabetes Association. 
Through pledges gathered by riders, funds will be raised to 

(*The Observer1 
Night Editor-Debbie Dahrling Ass't Night Editor-Leigh Tu­nakan layout-Denise Persing­er, Theresa Richeson, Betsy Masana, Joe Wheaton, Tracy McAuliffe, Marti Hogan, Cin­dy McKiel Copy Reader-Cathy Nolan Day Editor-Mary Pat Tarpey Editorials-Chris Smith Features-John Calcutt Sports-Ray "Michigan St." O'Brien, Fred "nice try" Her­bst Typists-Mel Celeste, Kathy Egbert, Kitty Conklin, Susan Shellenburger Night Controller-Karen "type it as I see it" Chiames
l ~~~er of the week: Patrie~ 
benefit and support programs in diabetes research, education, and detection. 
These programs, constituting an integral part of the Association's activities, are designed to bring relief to Indiana diabetics and to further the search for a cure for the disease. 
Anyone interested in riding may pick up pledge forms at the Volunteer Services office located near the student government offic­es on the second floor of LaFor­tune. 
As an added incentive, Burger Chef will give away free soft drink coupons to those bikers arriving at the first checkpoint. In addition, Big Chef meal coupons will be distributed to cyclists completing the entire 23-mile route. 
Persons who want to assist in organizing the bikathon or who need further information mav con­tact Paul at 3167 or Celeste at "t813. 
Erratum 

The Observer mistakenly ran a headline yesterday, Sept. 20, which stated a possible gunshot fired at Nickie's. The headline should have been possible gunshot fired at Corby's. 




Carter bids for Catholics 
with the implementation of better adoptive procedures, sex education and family planning. 
Under fire from bishops 
USNWR stated that both Carter and Ford have met with leaders of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops to show their concern for the Church's views. After Carter's meeting with the bishops, they expressed concern for Carter's ignorance on the abortion contro­versy. According to Time maga­zine, the bishops felt "en­couraged" by Ford's stand but "disappointed" with Carter's posi­tion. However, the bishops felt there was still room for improve­ment in Ford's position. Time revealed that Ford would probably oppose abortion more strongly if it were not for his wife, Betty. She has consistently stated her belief that abortion is "a matter for a woman to decide with her doctor ... 
After the meeting with the bishops, USNWR indicated that Carter might be willing to support some modified constitutional amendment on abortion. Never­theless, Rev. Joseph L. Bernardin of Cincinnati, president of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, still expressed disatisfac­tion with Carter's stand. Bernardin also stressed that while the Church does not endorse candidates from certain parties, the bishops will speak out clearly on issues. 
Some Carter aides felt he had been hurt by consulting the Church hierarchy. Carter is free, they contend, to take the election issues directly to Catholic lay people. 
"Carter represents the old tradi­tion of Southern populism," Fr. Andrew Greeley, a syndicated col­umnist told Newsweek, ''Which was fundamentally and often vi­ciously anti-Catholic.'' 
Is abortion the issue? 
Newsweek released the 1974 findings of the bishops which showed that only 10.9 percent of the Catholics questioned federally supported .action that would make all abortions illegal. 
In fact, Senator Walter F. Mon­dale (D-Minn.), after his appear­ance at Notre Dame, told News­week the abortion issue was "ter­ribly exaggerated" although he was not sure how it would affect the Catholic vote. Carter's own poll revealed that the abortion issue ranks 25th.out of 25 issues that voters were asked to rank in importance. 
To investigate the impact of the religion issue, Newsweek sent re­porters in three urban areas: Gage Park, a suburb of Chicago; Hyde 
arm 
Barber & Hair 
a 
Style Shop · 

A central issue dominating Jim­my Carter's bid for the White House is whether he can win the Catholic vote before election night on November 2. 
ACI::ording to a story in U. S. News and World Report, both Carter and President Gerald Ford are putting top priority on winning the nation's 33 million Catholics of voting age. Catholics comprise 23 percent of the population and 40 percent of the traditionally Demo­cratic electorate. According to the Official Catholic Directory, of the ten most populated states, five -­New York, Pennsylvania·, Illinois, New Jersey and Massachusetts -­are more than 30 percent Catholic. Their 125 electoral votes total nearly half the 270 needed to elect a President. 
Yet the problem seems more intense for Carter whose stand on abortion has perplexed the Catholic electorate. 
Ford and Carter on Abortion 
According to U.S. News and World Report', Ford "disagrees with ;~e decisio ns of the Supreme Cvurt." This includes their initial decision to limit States' rights to ban abortion. As a solution, Ford recommended a constitutional amendment establishing a national prohibition against abortion. 
"I think that people who have moral convictions and beliefs can handle the problem of abortion in the right way, and I have faith in the people that they will, " the President said according to U.S. News and World Report. "And I 
don't think they should he bound on the one hand by certain decision of the Supreme Court or by a rigid constitutional amendment on the other. 
Democratic Presidential hopeful Carter "thinks abortion is wrong" and that the government must not ew.:ourage it. However, Carter, unlil ~ Ford, does not favor a constitutional-amendment prohib­iting all abortions. Carter argued the need for the government to minimize the need for abortions 

Board of Regents discuss SMC policy 
by Honey McHugh Staff Reporter 
St. Mary's College Board of Regents this weekend held its first of three meetings for the school year 1976-77. The members of the Board gathered late friday after­noon to begin discussing overall college policy. The group is essentially the board of directors which governs the corporation of St. Mary's College. 
The Board is composed of Col­lege President Dr. John M. Dug­gan; Mrs. Pamela Smith Malone, President of the Alumnae Associa­tion; one faculty member, Dr. Dorothy Feigl of the Science de­ment; the student Regent, MaryLu Bilek and representatives from the Holy Cross order. Various committees primarily concerned with specific issues are also part of the Board. 
Among the issues discussed at the meeting were financial affairs of the College, the progress of the recreation building now under con­struction, departmental activities and a general evaluation of the coming school year. 
By working in conjunction with the administration, the Board serves as a guiding force in a wide range of school matters. 
The weekend concluded with Mass and the Notre Dame-Purdue football game. · 
The Board meets again in Feb­ruary and theB in May for further evaluation. 
Park, a section of Boston; and Woodside, N.Y., a community ten miles from Manhattan. The results ofthe survey revealed that "almost without exception" Catholic voters insisted that religion was not --and should not be --an issue in the 1976 Presidential election. 
"Why should I be concerned about Jimmy Carter's religion? wasn't concerned about Ford's -­and Ford is no Catholic," said Chicago cabdriver Cora Smith. 
The Catholics surveyed by News­

week  were  split  on  the  abortion  
question.  In  general,  younger  
people  did  take  a  more  

position, although few cited the issue as a justification or opposing Carter. 
Hnally, the survey indicated that many Catholic voters had not decided for whom to vote. Even those Catholics who said they supported Carter were somewhat annoyed by his abortion position as being "fuzzy." 
Carter aide sees victory 
Carter's success in winning the once-skeptical Jewish voters is an example of how he will gain the support of the Catholics, according toCharles H. Kirbo, one of Carter's closest personal advisors. Kirbo told the New York Times on Sept. 16, that the lastest Carter poll showed the candidate was getting 70 to 80 percent of the Jewish vote. 
"We are going to get the bulk of the Catholic vote," Kirbo, an Atlanta attorney, told. He indi­cated that the estimated Carter vote rose "between eight and ten percent in one Catholic area after a visit by the candidate." 

The Times reported that Kirbo showed the latest Carter polls reflecting a 12 to 15 percent advantage over Ford. The margin increased from 20 to 25 points in the South. Concerning an effort to increase the margin in close states, Kirbo would recommend that Car­ter campaign personally to gain more votes. 
The Observer is publiShed Monday through Friday e11d weekly during the surrmer session, except during the exam; e11d vacation periods. The Observer is P\.lbliShed by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame e11d St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor ($10 per semester) fro-n The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, lndiCI1a 46556. Serond Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 



Award Winning Stylist 

~ir 'Rirhard's-~' 
HAIR SJYUNC 
129 DIXIEWAY SOUTH 
2774734 .... ~S-FROII lANDAU'S ll'l 
Tuesday, Septe~ber 21, 1976 

the observer
=-''------'=­

Bro. Moran stays busy 
Hammes 'rushed' on football weekends 
by Jack Pizzolato "I know I couldn't do it if I didn't customers buy practical things. chandizing," Moran points out, is Ohio State T-shirt stands in line at Staff Reporter have a great staff. It's hard to They're less wild. And the people­to "make it convenient for the the register; in one hand he• holds a figure exactly how many (people) who shop here expect good quali­customer--get it out in the open." cap and a number of football come here, but there's always ty." Sweeping by, a young boy plucks jerseys, with the other he waves a 
A calm voice drifts out of the heavy traffic." intercom and up over the crowd, One of the customers, a short"Hello ladies and gentlemen and woman with a "go Irish" button onwelcome to the Hammes Notre her sweater, steps out of the. flow. 
Dame Book Store." It is a typical Clutching a Notre Dame license"football" Saturday and down plate and pair of monogrammedbelow, a noisy river of people booties, she searches around an­weave in and out through the xiously for her children. The rest ofaisles, their chatter mingling with the crowd passes in review likethe clackity-clack of the cash regis­proud generals displaying theirters. 
monogrammed spoils: ties , jack­"It's a mad rush," says Bro. 
ets, plaques, playing cards, stick­Conan Moran C.S.C., the sturdy, ers, key chains, pens, pencil hol­white-haired Irishman who has ders. ashtrays, books, bibles andmanaged the book store since it bottle-openers all go marching by. 
opened in 1955. "I wish I could spread it out over the week to give "People often think it's funny our customers a little better ser­that we have N.D. on everything," vice." Moran Comments, "but when you 
ask them 'Would you buy plainMoran moves back and forth stuff?' they say, 'We want thealong the counters with a box in monogram.' " 
one hand, sorting, rearranging, refilling the display stands. 
"I know what the other college "Working here is tough," he says. stores sell," he says, "but our 
Kissinger optimistic; Afri~an talks pending 
LUSAKA, Zambia (AP) -Henry Kissinger told President Kenneth Kaunda yesterday he expects Rho­desia's white rulers to clear the way by this weekend for talks leading to rule by the black majority, an African diplomat re­ported. 
The diplomat said the secretary of state also raised several ques­tions with Kaunda relating to the substance of a final settlement. He reportedly did so at the request of Rhodesian Prime Minister Ian Smi­th with whom Kissinger conferred Sunday in Pretoria, South Africa. 
Kaunda's clarification will be transmitted to Smith through South African Prime Minister John Vor­ster, said the diplomat. He did not disclose details of the questions. 
Smith, who flew home to Salis­bury after the meeting in Pretoria, told a broadcast interviewer "Con-
Hesburgh talks on student values 
[continued from page 1] important qu<>stion for action in the world is "Is this the right thing to d0.?" 
Hesburgh suggested that stu­dents become concerned with a three-tiered value structure: per­sonal values, the moral dimension of world problems, and values related to the profession students choose. 
According to Hesburgh, a values seminar will be required in each college to explore potential ethical questions. He related that each college is currently constructing values seminars relevant to their individual curriculum. 
AI Sowla, a senior in American Studies, asked why senior arts and letters majors were not allowed in accounting courses. Hesburgh conceded that the Business College is currently an "overloaded cir­cuit'·. Due to tenure and the distribution of professors within the colleges, Hesburgh explained that hiring new business professors is presently impossible. He added that if the bulge continues, the University will gradually hire more professors in the future. 
Hesburgh was also questioned about the possibility of coed dorms and the party regulations restrict­ing alcoholic celebration on camp­us. He responded that there are no plans in the immediate future for coed dorms. Concerning party regulations, Hesburgh acknow­ledged that "We're stuck with a state law that we don't agree with but there it is." 
Hesbuq 1, continued, expressing the hope that the law can be changed and ''we can have a pub where we can have parties, that would be a lot more meaning~ul." 
crete results" had come out of the session with Kissinger and that there was a chance of a settlement "in the near future" between Rhodesia~s 270,000 whites and its 
5.7 million blacks. 
Vorster, too, said a Rhodesian settlement could result and said there had also been progress on the issue of South-West Africa, or Namibia, the territory the United Nations demands that South Africa give up. . Kaunda was pressed by journal­ists to say if he considers as acceptable the provisional three-' way understanding between Kiss­inger, Vorster and Smith. But he declined to disc!JSS it before con­sulting with three fellow black African presidents -Julius Nyerere of Tanzania, Sir Seretse Khama of Botswana and Samora Machel of Mozambique. 
"We are dealing with a situation involving life and death," he said. "It would be wrong for one man to take a unilateral stand when so many leaders are involved." 
Shuttle Continued 

Kissinger himself planned to 
continue his week-old African pea­
ce shuttle by flying on to Tanzania 
from Lusaka to see Nyerere. 
Meantime, a senior U.S. offical 
aboard Kissinger's plane told re­
porters the secretary thinks a 
Rhodesian constitutional parley, 
with both white and black negotiat­
ors, could begin as early as _November. 
On Sunday, Zambian Foreign 
Minister Siteke Mwale told journal­
ists before flying off to the United 
Nations in New York, "Zambia 
doesn't care whether the efforts by 
Dr. Kissinger to try and solve the 
southern African issue, which has 
now reached its crucial stages, are 
aimed at winning President Ford's 
election campaign. If Dr. Kissing­
er will win majority rule in Zimbab­
we, Rhodesia and Namibia -also 
known as South-West Africa-that 
will be fine.'' 
Smith has to win the approval of 
his full cabinet and the caucus of 
the ruling Rhodesian Front party 
for the understanding worked out 
with Kissinger and Vorster. The 
senior U.S. official said he thinks 
Smith, de(>pite being accompanied 
in Pretoria by three key cabinet 
colleagues, will find it hard to 
persuade his political followers to 
endorse the Pretoria deal -but 
probably he will succeed. 
Report favorably 

The senior U.S. official said_ 
Smith and three of his cabinet 
members agreed "to report favor­
ably" to other officials in Salisbury 
on a proposition that falls generally 
under a U.S.-British plan calling 
for a commitment to black majority 
[continued on page 11] 

I ' ~ ( \ I # t • \ , \ 
. ' 
a conveniently displayed fighting Notre Dame pennant. "We haveNear the center aisle, a round­irish frisbee off the counter. customers from all over the fiftyfaced man with a fighting irish states," Moran observes. Anddoormat and a Notre Dame blanket Moran notes that casual sports-­one can imagine that somewhere,tucked under his arm, thoughtfully wear is the bookstore's biggest someone's favorite uncle is leaning examines a fluff cotton football and seller. "It's by far the most useful 
gives it a little squeeze. thing; it's priced right and people back in an easychair, about to wake have confidence in what we sell." 
up the echoes with an ice cold "The secret of successful mer-A tall man with glasses in an monogrammed mug of beer. 
Committee views coed life 
An ll-person committee has been Nevertheless, this was chosen 
appointed to evaluate undergradu­specifically as an interim goal to 
ate coeducation at Notre Dame. allow us to examine our enrollment 
which first admitted women for possibilities and the relative desir­
full-time baccalaureate study in ability of various proportions of our 
1972. student body. I would ask you to 
The committee, which includes re-examine those proportions now 
three Notre Dame students as well and make recommendations for the 
as a Saint Mary's College faculty future." 
member has been asked to examine Members of the committee are 
the current status of coeducation. John Goldrick, director of admis­
to seek suggestions from the sions; Dr. Emil T. Hofman, dean of 
campus community and to study 'the Freshman Year of Studies; 
enrollment policies which currently Sister John Miriam Jones, S.C.. 
determine the proportion of men assistant provost; Rev. Terrance 
and women in the undergraduate Lally. C.S.C., assistant vice presi­
student body. 
In a letter to committee mem­bers, the University's provost. Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., noted that when the University decided to admit female baccalaureate candi­dates it also decided not to enlarge the _total undergraduate enroll­ment. The committee planned to increase the number of women until an interim goal of 1,500 female students was reached. (This fall. there are 1.530 under­graduate women at Notre Dame.) 
"These students," Father Burt­chaell wrote, "combined with the anticipated enrollment at Saint Mary's, would provide the com­bined Notre Dame-Saint Mary's campus with about 3,000 female students in comparison with about 5,200 male students. This 3 to 5 ratio replicates the average rario on campuses across the country. 
Debate coverage includes; NBC,CBS 
New York [AP] -While expressing 
renewed regrets at arrangements, 
the NBC and CBS networks annou­
nced yesterday they will televise 
Thursday's debate between Presi­
dent Ford and Democratic nomiee 
Jimmy Carter. 
There was no announcement 
from the third major network, 
ABC. Earlier, the Public Broadca­
sting Service had announced it 
would televise the debate. 
Originally, the networks had 
balked at the ground rules that 

_dent tor student attairs; Jane P. Lammers. undergraduate theolog~ student; Sister Jean Lenz. O.S.F .. rector of Farlev Hall; Sister Elena Malits. c.s.c:. chairman of the Department of Religious Studies at Saint Man·'s; Martin Mellett. un­dergraduate psychology student: Vincent Raymond. associate dean of the College of Business Admini~­tration; John Reid. Graduate theol­ogy student. and Dr. Mary K. Tillman. assistant professor in the General Program of Liberal Stud­ies. Sister John Miriam Jones will 
'chair the group. 
Could this innocent and unassuming young man be one of the
barred cameras from cutting away 

conspirators involved in the case of the Huddle's missing stepsl
from the candidates to the audience 
[Photo by Dominick Yocius]
at any point during the 90-minute debates. 

food... drink... entertainment  Observer Reporter' Workshop * Wed. Sept. 11 7:00p.m. in lafortu~e theat  


r 
4 the observer Tuesday, September 21, 1976
---by Mike Shields alcoholic. 
a time." The program has helpedStaff Reporter Chris expressed again and again him so much, that now he says he 
his tremendous fear, experienced would rather die than drink one
Krause addresses 
Alcoholics Anonymous met last daily, of what he was doing to more time. He has learned "how 
night in the Library lounge for one himself with his drinking. He said to accept myself.'' of the year's first meetings. Fifty that "something was missing from 
When asked if he could deliver a people, only a handful of which my life ... but when I drank, that message to the students of this 
were students, heard Athletic Dir­part wasn't missing anymore." 
first Alcoholics 
campus, he said he would urgeector Edward "Moose" ·Krause, a Chris, his voice tight with emo­them to examine themselves and "recovered alcoholic", address the tion, told how he pushed loved their drinking and to ask if they are
gathering. 

ones away; how people did not satisfied with their drinking habits. 
Following Krause's comments,

Anonymous meeting 
know how to help. But now, with For information on alcoholism or
Chris M., a man in his mid-20's, the help of AA, Chris has "learned Alcoholics Anonymous, call Peggyrelated his experiences ·as an how to live successfully, one day at Barnum at 8809. 
WE HAVE THE LOWEST PRICES IN SOUND.  
KD-11. The go-anywhere cassette studio. For power you can use battery, home. car or boat. Has automatic level control and automatic stop. A built-in condenser microphone that's super sensitive. Cue and review. AC bias erase to help eliminate hiss. Uses 4 long-lasting D size batteries. Dimensions: 6l,s"w, 3"h, ll"d.  SAVE $72 LIMITED QUANTITY$188 HD-540 Professional stereo cassette deck with Dolby* by Meriton  
Save $200.  $68 Harman  
Factory8~~~horized sa99 •  Kardon HK-40 Speaker  
STEREOTECH 1200  A big 10 inch woofer for low bass,  
AM/FM Stereo Receiver 50 WAnS/CHANNEL  and a 2112 inch tweeter · for clean highs. SAVE $60.  
GREAT SOUND GREAT PRICE  
TI-E  0(1.',(:)1'. ly/15' CoFREE u,o0 RECORD PREENER ~ WITH ANY PURCHASE OVER $100  
MICHIGAN AND INDIANA  1/2 Price WITH ANY PURCHASE  
• SOUTH BEND: 52578 US 31 NORTH/277-1515  
© 1976, The Sound Room  OFFER GOOD THROUGH SEPTEMBER 30  

.....• --r--.. . 
Records (cont.) 

Tuesday, September 21, 1976 the observer 
Stills, Young: ~Long ma~ ~ou Run' 

[continued from page 71 
often),-much as they did when the; were 
with CSNY. They are ably backed by a 
band handpicked by Stills. Members 
include Stills' old friends Joe Lala on 
percussion and Joe Vitale on drums, 
George Perry on bass and keyboardist Jerry Aielo. The only mistake the two made in ther personnel was not letting Graham Nash and David Crosby do back-up vocals as they originally had planned, for C&N's soft, slick harmonies could have used in a few songs to tone down the harder approach su usual by Stills and Young. 
As predicted -by the critics, most of the good cuts are written by Young. His "Long Way May You Run" starts off the album and is undoubtely a confession of friendship to an old friend (take a guess who). Delivered with the usual laid back delivery, the song sounds like it should be off a Neil Young-Crazy Horse album. 
Young recently said he enjoyed listening to Bob Marley and the Wailers. His "Ocean Girl" has an unmistakeable reggae beat lead by the percussion of Joe Lala. If nothing else, it is an enjoyable breakaway from the normal Young song. 
Young's best effort is "Fontainebleau," which features some of the most abstract lyrics Young has written in quite some time: 
"There's a palace in the gravy That's holding on and on and on 
Even after all the blue-haired ladies and 
the wheelchairs are gone 
Fontainbleau, Fontainbleau'' 
Young's pondering vocal is aided by excellent back-up vocals and his own guitar playing. An intriguing song. 
Although Stills' writing is not on the level of Young's, (and his own of a few years ago--remember it was him, not contribution. The song deals with lonliness and the paranoia that accompanies it. 

Stills starts off slow and builds up to a fast-paced guitar solo that caps off the feeling of insecurity that stills conveys in his vocals. 
This song is perhaps the reassurance Young need,.d to keep faith in his old friend. Stills is singing better than he has in a while and sounds confident. Although he did turn out a dud in "Make Love to 
Youngwhowrote"Carry On"and"Suite: Judy You" on this album, "Guardian Angel" is 
Blue Eyes") his guitar playing carries him good enough to make you think he's through in most of his songs. Stills says he getting back to the CSNY level. As for wants to be remembered as one of the Young, he's as good as ever. For an great guitarists. That might be stretching album that was not supposed to make it. it, but his playing is solid and pretty this is good listening. Their next should be imaginat~ve. "Guardian Angel" is his best e\en better. 
TYPEWRITER

Senator Brademas seeks re-election FAST 
Editors Note: This is the first of a two part series portraying the candidates for the 3rd congression­al district of Indiana, which in­cludes the Notre Dame campus. Today's article features Democrat John Brademas. 
by Vincent Moschella Political Reporter 
Congressman John Brademas, Democrat of South Bend, is seeking re-election to his tenth term in the House of Representatives. He is opposed by Republican Thomas Thorsen, an IUSB political science professor. 
John Brademas, then 31, was 
.first elected to The U.S. House of Repr~sentatives in 1958 from In­diana's Third District. Now in his ninth term. he ·was last year reappointed Chief Deputy Majority Whip by House Speaker Carl Albert and Majority Leader Thom­as P. O'Neill, Jr. 
Brademas serves on the House Education and Labor Committee where he is Chairman of the Select Education Subcommitte and a me­mber of the Subcommittee of the House Administration Committee and a member of the Joint (House­Senate) Committees on the Library of Congress and on Printing. 
Congressman Brademas has ear­ned a reputation for his leadership in education. In 1975 he was voted one of the nation's four most influential leaders in higher educa­tion. During seventeen years of service on the House Education and Labor Committee, he has played a principal role in helping write. most of the major legislation concerning elementary and second­ary education, higher education, vocational education, services for the elderly and the handicapped, and Federal support for the arts and humanities. He was a chief architect of the 1974 reform of the Elementary and Secondary Act Title I program. He is principal sponsor of the Older Americans Services Amendments, Vocational Rehabilitation Act, Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act, Environmental Education Act, and the Drug and Alcohol Abuse Edu­cation Act. He was the Author in Congress of the National Institute for Education Act, to support educational research, and was a major sponsor of the Omnibus Education Amendments of 1972, containing the most important ad­vance in higher education support in over a century. He is also principal House sponsor of the Education of All Handicapped Chil­dren Act and legislation to continue the National Endowments for the Arts and Humanities. 
Brademas was first appointed 
Chief Deputy Majority Whip, four­
th ranking position in the House 
Majority Leadership, in January, 
1973. He was last year named by 
speaker Albert Chairman of the 
Information Task Force of the 
Democratic Steering and Policy 
Committee to improve communica­
tion about the record of the House 
of Representatives. 
As a member of the House Administration Committee. he au­thored major provisions of the Federal Election Campaign Act Amendments of 1974. and was chief House sponsor of the law which assures ownership by the Federal government of the papers. tapes and other documents of the Nixon Administration. 
Born in Mishawaka, Indiana in 1927. Mr. Brademas graduated from South Bend Central High School in 1945. After service in the Navy, he was a Veterans National Scholar at Harvard University whe­re he graduated with a B.A., magna cum laude, in 1949 and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. From 1950-53 he studied as a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University, En· gland, receiving his Ph.D. in social studies in 1954. In 1972 he was elected an Honorary Fellow of Brasenose College, his own college there. 
As Executive Assistant to Adlai 
E. Stevenson in 1955-56, he was in charge of research on issues for the first months of the 1956 Presiden­tial campaign. Prior to his election to Congress, he was Assistant Professor of Political Science at Saint Mary's College. 
Brademas has also been awarded honorary degrees by seven colleges and universities, including Notre Dame. He is also a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 
He is a member of the National 
r:--n,;;-§.~···~ 
: difference!!! : 
: ,,_fifEfliOif e 
o.., ..••

•., MCAT olnperlfnct 1~'"" 
: DA T ..... ,~"" • : LSA T ~llclmn~ : 
Yolu,onout hoolot

•. GRE • : 
. 
• GMAT ''"lly.""''"''' :
• Q(AT Courtu l~lllrt e contllnlly updlltd •·
CPAT • •
VAT :
Jape IKololou lor rtvoew\ ol CIUI e
SAT 
teuont and lor utt e of lupplr,enl•l"f e 
"'ltrroats •

FLEX 
ECFMG • : 
• 
lbh up\ lor "'•nrd tenon\ : 
• NA T'L MED BDS :
•
: NAT'L DENT BDS-: 
e Mou t !;u..t start 8 weeks : • pflor ~a Exam • e Sprong & Foil compact• • : So,..,e courses offered on e 
• Ma1or Compu"'' e 
• Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Center : : 831 Park Square Drive • 
e Bloomington, Indiana <17401 • • (812)339-1127 • 
• CHICAGO CENTER • 
• 1312) 764-5151 • 
i~~~~'
• TIS,T ..fii&IIJAhON ' 
=-.. "'CIALIST!io SIH('"f ,,. ... 
.,;.::T~ :.~:~iJ 
Historical Publications and Records 
~Commission. and in 1972-73 served on the National Commission on Financing Postsecondary Educa­tion. Brademas is a member of the Advisory Council to the College of Arts and Letters at the University of Notre Dame, Board of Regents of Saint Mary's College and the boards of American University. Church Society for Collel!e Work and Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. He is also a member of the Central Committe of the WorldCouncil of Churches and was a delegate from the United Methodist Church to the 5th As­sembly of the World Council of 
Nugen1t, Montrose 
to perform Oct.18 
Detroit's self-proclaimed "prime manipulator of rock and roll" and guitarist extraordinaire Ted Nu­gent will be joined by rock group Montrose for a Monday, October 
18. concert at kalamazoo's Wings Stadium. 
Tickets for the Ted Nugent-­Montrose concert go ao sale Friday al all River City Review Ticket Outlets. 

NAVY ON CAMPUS 28 September Lt. Mike Fitzgerald 
Make Appointments with Pta.-..rno.rotl Office. 




"*The Observer an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Business Manager Tom Fronczak 
Advertising Manager Mike Miller 
F:wto Editor Tony Chifari 
Production Manager Martha L. ~='anning Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 ~ 
Phone•(219)283-8661 [ND] (219)284-5365 [SMC) 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief Dan Sanchez Managing Editor Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed Gregg Bangs Executive Editor Val Zurblis Executive Editor Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor Bob Mader Exec. News Editor Maureen Flynn Campus Editor Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor Don Reimer Copy Editr,r Tim O'Reiley Features Editor F rPd Herbst Sports Editor 

Tuesday, September 21, 1976 
commentary 
In Loco Parakeetis 
fr. bob kerby 

It pleases me to learn that Darby O'Gill and Poochie, along with sundry llamas, emus, vultures, and pythons named Monty, are con­soled by the good news of their impending salvation. If preaching to the birds seemed worthwhile h• St. Francis of Assisi, by what warrant do we omit our little feathered. furry. and scaly friends from the benefits of our ministry? 
Yet as Fr. Robert Griffin pomts out (16 September), my original epistle in behalf of quadruped and winged beasties apparently neglec­ted to clarify an issue of major theological import. Fr. Griffin asks me 'to remind both Darby and Poochie that for cocker spaniels as for clerics, faith without works is dead.' Needless to say, my first impulse was to comply, and I promptly set about composing an ethical exhortation to the animal kingdom, designed to remind Dar­by, Poochie, Moby Dick, Cheetah, St. George's Dragon, the American Bald Eagle, and all other animals that they must desist from devour­ing parakeets, and must be 'born again' in action as well as in spirit. Lest my admonition seem too brutal, I planned to commend the excellent example of commitment to 'good works' provided by Darby O'Gill, who has selflessly assume responsibility for operating a socia­ble student rendezvous, in loco parentis. 
Completion of my treatise was interrupted by the sudden arrival of a new parakeet at my door. Introducing himself as Lorenzo the Magnificent, he produced superb references --until his recent retire­ment he had been Tyrant of Renaissance Florence --and of­fered to take my forlorn household under his protective wing, in loco parentis. Of course we welcomed him, gave him title to the avian palace formerly occupied by the lamented Basil, and pledged our common fealty to him, acknowl­edging that he shall henceforth govern our family's affairs in loco parentis. Only after Lorenzo was settled and comfortable did I resume work on my dissertation to the animal world. 
When the text was finished, I decided that it would be only meet and proper to submit my draft to Lorenzo for his scrutiny prior to publication. I found II Magnifico at home; his butler, a penguin, escorted me to his guest parlor. Lorenzo was dressed in a tasteful >ilken smoking jacket, puffing cas­Jally on an aromatic briar, and ~cntly stroking his favorite pet flea, )pot. Once I explained the purpose )f my visit, Lorenzo modestly Jrotested that he was merely a )arakeet statesman, not a philos­>pher of Basil the Great's caliber. 'et he agreed to have hispersona. heologian, the black-robed raven 'orquemada, review my disserta­ion in order to determine, in loco 
•arentis, whether it was deserving f II Magnifico's imprimatur. Vhile Torquemada examined my !xt, Lorenzo and I played chess, hared some excellent Chartreuse, nd discussed the political implica­.ons of the Catholic bishops' ecent statements concerning the Whig and Anti-Masonic party plat­
forms. 
Suddenly, Torque mada hurled my manuscript into the fireplace, summoned agents of the Spanish Inquisition to arrest me, and, turning toward me with baleful eve. uttered his terrible verdict: "Nevermore!"Before I was hauled to the windowless dungeon be­neath Lorenzo's memorial library, Torquemada was kind enough. in loco parentis, to explain my heresy to me. His authority, ironically, was an unfinished manuscript left incomplete by the late Basil Byrd at the time of his premature passing. Basil's final legacy to avian theo­logy, entitled 'Faith, Works, and Avian Afterlife: A Summa,' was written in delicate calligraphy on the backs of two reams of used Vatican City postage stamps. As the black raven intimated, one quick glance at Basil's argument proved me to be in error, and doomed me to destruction. 
For there was a mortal fallacy in my treatise. Although, in an earlier work, I had agreed with Fr. Griffin that doggies and birdies are not persons, and ought not to be sentimentalized as if they were, in my new treatise I had forgotten this truth. Indeed, I had been led astray by Fr. Griffin's anthropomorphic application of the doctrine of 'Faith and good works' to the salvation of non-human creatures. As Basil's manuscript demonstrates, only sin­ners need to pursue. the grace of salvation through works and faith; and only the Children of Adam, composing the two species of human . beings and clerics, have inherited Adam's propensity to sin. 
'. Only Ada'm's sons, daughters, and clergy have been cast forth from the Garden of Eden, and have been commanded to labor by the sweat. of their brows, to bring forth young in pain, to struggle for survival in dining hall lines, and to learn to cope with Toyota carburetors. The rest of God's creation, from the lilies of the field to the birds of the air, have no need to sow or reap, nor any obligation to work for grace, for the rest of creation never nibbled Adam·~ apple. 
And so I am doomed to perpetual darkness in this subterranean dun­geon, my only companion an Inquisitorial raven perched atop my rack, perpetually muttering, in loco parentis, the verdict: "Never­more!" From far above I can sometimes hear the pitter--patter ofLorenzo:s tiny claws, as he paces about the sun-lit expanse of his palace's comfortable library. By this time I expect he has extended his dominion over the whole cam­pus, South Bend, metropolitan Mishawaka, Osceola, Lakeville, and LaPorte, and has begun to 
_incorporate St. Mary's and Niles into his growing empire. I am sure he rules his benighted human and clerical subjects with the same benevolence he has shown to me, always acting in their best interests in loco parentis. 
Fortunately, the raven who is guarding me has been momentarily distracted by his dinner; he is munching with drowsy content­ment on a repast that looks strangely like the remains of a cocker spaniel. Because of his preoccupation I have been able to scribble this note on a scrap of flyleaffrom the guard's pocketbook edition of Edgar Allen Poe's Collec­ted Works, and have been able to induce a transient rodent named Ben to deliver this letter to The Observer's editorial offices. I importune the Observer to publish it, so that others may not fall unwarily into, the heresy of measur­ing ·animal· blessedness by mere human or clerical standards, and so that poor Fr. Griffin , who has already made this dire mistake, may be warned to repent or flee. My guardian raven has already told me, in loco parentis, that the Inquisition is on Fr. Griffin's trail. 
P.S. Most of my travail can be born with equanimity, but Fr. Griffin's cutting remark that I am Darby O'Gill's favorite 'theologian' is too much to endure. As The Observer points out, controversy is healthy: but must those engaged in this 
controversy resort to such demeaning epithets? I permit the cursed word 'theologian' to pass without com­ment just this one time, without retaliation, only because Darby, in his canine innocence, cannot truly know how cruel it is. 
Laundry 
Dear Editor: 
Who is the ND Laundry Service trying to kid? It's already bad enough that ND men must pay a minimum of $2.60 for what an ND woman washes for $. 70. Now we are told that in a "hope for better service" laundry will have to be picked up at St. Michaels, a most convenient location! Why not make it the ACC? It seems as if ND students are paying through the nose for a lot of services. It's time for some good updates, such as community coin-op machines on campus. If new laundry policy is an example of better university ser­vice to come, we would just as soon struggle through the old way! 
Mike En'dres Gregg Stapleton 

Doonesbury 
,"'% ON YOUR OPeNING 5T/fll3MtNT; JUST TRY TO$ YOURSelF, 
ANO PLAY IT AS PRESI~!AL. 
AS POSSIBLe. ti..V-ICN CARTCR.'s 
UP, 813 SlJR& TO MAKE HARD 
£Ye CONTACT. I 


P. 0. Box Q 
Catcalls, et a/ 
veer from 
ND image 
Dear Editor: 
This letter should actually be addressed to the students and athletes of the University, but I hope to reach them through you: 
Upon graduation each one of you will find yourselves heir to a great resevoir of goodwill which springs from the simple fact that you attended Notre Dame. The Univer­sity is respected, but not always loved by the vast majority of tpe people in this country. The main reason for this respect has been not only the success of our football team, but also the class that the team has shown in both victory and defeat. 
Recently, however, actions of both the students and the athletes have done much to destroy Notre 
_Dame's good image. The extra fore-arm thrown last Saturday when the Pitt quarterback was sacked, and a childish bumping incident, which was probably not seen by most of the student body but which was clearly visible on regional television, were only the latest in a long line of events that have detracted from Notre Dame's image. The continual booing and the chants of 'bullshit' after a disputed call have also hurt the school. · 
Thousands of N,otre Dame grad­uates have built and benefitted from the University's reputation for fair play. Whether it will continue to benefit us, or whether it will ever benefit you, is completely up to you. All you have to do is show a little class. 
John M. Krahulec '71 
Distant profs 
a must 
in Seminar 
Dear Editor: 
Without malice, and with the sole intention of getting the record straight, I have a couple of com­ments on the generally objective article on the Collegiate Seminar in today's (Wednesday's) paper. 
1. 
The Coliegiate Seminar was instituted not as an addition to, but as an offshoot of , the General Program. 

2. 
The purpose of re-staffing the Seminar was not to eliminate but increase the "distance" between the students and the teachers. The elimination of what I called "dis­tance" would put teachers and students on the same age level and remove the primacy ofthe teacher. 




Tuesday, September 21, 1976 the observer
....:....=::....:___,.:.7
Mouies 

w. C. Fields and Me A Woman Under the Influence 
If you can get past the putty on Rod Steiger's nose, you will survive W.C. Fields and Me. 
W.C. Fields and Me is a Universal picture, produced by Jay Weston and directed by Arthur Heller. The screenplay, written by Bob Merrill, is based on a novel by Carlotta Monti and Cy Rice. Rod Steiger plays Fields. 
The plot is simple. Fields, discontent with Vaudeville, two-bit show girls and Flo Ziegfeld, wants to make it in the movies. Fields picks up a German, midget travel-ling companion (definite material for Ripley's "Believe It or Not") and off they 
go to Hollywood. Fields gets a break which does not include midgets. Exit midget
friend. 
Enter success in the form of Harry Bannerman, (John Marley) movie mag­nate. Success comes to Fields, but as Diana Ross knows, "It's lonely at the top." Enter Carlotta Monti (attempted by Valerie Perrine) to chase away that loneliness. 
Fields soon becomes addicted to alcohol and Carlotta Monti, in that order. Monti and Fields develop a love-hate relationship which Monti loves. And Fields becomes addicted to it. 
Pour on the success and write in Jack Barrymore, (Jack Cassidy) Fields' confi­dant and sidekick. Fields spends his time with the boys and Monti wants to get 
maureen o'brien 
· Monti finally delivers an ultimatum to Fields(thank God): either Fields gets her a screen test or Fields can get another mistress. Valerie Perrine, that Carlotta Monti, has delusions about being an actress. Fields wants a full-time mistress and not an actress-mistress, so he arrang~~s negative screen test results with movie king Bannerman. 
Everything blows up. Fields' kidneyblows up from too much liquor. Movte magnate Bannerman blows up over Fields' alcoholism. Monti blows up over Fields' screen test fix. 
Monti leaves. Bannerman boots fields.. Ja.::k Barrymore dies on Fields. Fields is a case. 
Enter happy ending, such that it is. Steiger gives a good performance, considering the screenplay he has to work with. Occasionally, there are a few good sequences where Fields' humor and genius come through. Cassidy and Marley act well. Bernadette Peters adds some class to the movie. She should have played Fields' mistress. Valerie Perrine, who plays the mistress, looks like she is doing a pepsodent commercial instead of a feature film. The problem with W.C. Fields and Me is it reaches for the moon and ends up giving_ the audience Playdoh on Steiger's nose and lines which Fields would not have touched with the ol' ten-foot pole. The movie lacks 
So you want to spend a pleasant and relaxed evening at the movies ... then A Woman Under the Influence is not for you. If you are brave enough to follow this movie to the end (which many people were not) you will find that you have been caught under the influence of an explosive and fascinating film. Upon leaving you will feel strained, drained and depressed. 
However, if you are at all interested in the way people treat one another, in the way in which people manifest love toward each other, then you will want to see A Woman over and over. You are not asked 
to passively absorb this film; instead, you are tested as to how much emotion you can, in fact, deal with. 
Gina Rowlins demonstrates a superb acting skill as Mabel Longetti--a perform­ance for which she almost won an academy 
award. Her facial contortions, her convul­sive gestures, her awkward body move­ments create a character whose neurosis simply dominate the screen. She portrays Mabel, an average suburban mother of three and wife of construction worker, Nick Longetti, who is trying her hardest to make her life the "nice, happy" image which her husband perpetually depicts for her. 
When the movie begins, she is a little crazy, but as she tries to be a friend. and hostess to her husband's co-workers, a mother and hostess to her childrens' 

l~m~a~r~r~~~d~.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t~h~e~~~s~s~~~n~a~l~~~m~w~h~t~·c~h~F~l~·e~W~s~re~v~e~r~e~d~.~.fuen~.udapkua~a~~p~~noo 
Records 
down the Wind' 
by gregg bangs 
Unlike Joni Mitchell or Laura Nyro, the only instrument Linda Ronstadt utilizes is her amazing voice. She also does not write most (99o/o) of her own material, but when you hear her version of the original, you swear no other version will top it. Just to add another ace to her stacked deck, she has talented people working with her--not just .back-up people, but friends and technical advisors. The multi-faceted Andrew Gold, bassist Kenny Edwards, guitarists Dan Dugmore and Waddy Wac­htel, and producer Peter(remember Peter aad Gordon?) Asher all play major roles in the success of Ronstadt's latest album, "Hasten Down the Wind." · 
For instance, on •'That'll be the Day," guitaarists Gold and Wachtel trade off guitar solos that keep the song moving and add a somewhat cynical edge to it. Edward's mandolin cuts in and out of "The Tattler," keeping the song from becoming immersed in the lush string arrangement Asher has provided. Gold plays everything from drums to guitar to clarinet and does them all quite well, m addition, his background vocals (along with Edwards) are a solid base for Ronstadt's searing 
v~ice. 
Make no doubt about it, her voice is still the main ingredient in this album. She can go up and down the scale faster than an elevator, sing softly or loudly, and sound detached or very personal. On "Lose Again," dispair is clearly heard when she sings: 
Save me 
Free me . 
From my heart this time 
Well the train's gone 
Down the track 
And I'm left behind. 

A few cuts later, she belts out the previously mentioned Buddy Holly rocker, "That'll be the Day." 
However, she also can sing gently as shown on a tune co-written by her father, Edwards and herself, a spanish ballad called "Lo Sienta Mi Vida," This song is a case where the shape is more important than the content. Her delivery is superb--when somebody mesmerizes you in a language you don't understand, that's something. Warren Zevon's "Hasten Down the Wind." The song deals with what has to be her favorite subject.. -a depressing love. Ronstadt tells the story of a girl who wants both freedom and her lover in a subdued manner. Unlike Zevon who had screaming guitars backing him up, Asher surrounds the song with strings which tends to give a dreamlike quality to the song. Perhaps this dilemma Ronstadt sings about will never happen? Ronstadt, along with Don Heneley's (Eagle's drum­mer) subdued harmony vocal, makes this a haunting song. 
A critic said that Ronstadt, like other popular rock stars. has hit upon a formula and is taking it for all it's worth. Ths only thing that's constant with Ronstadt is her excellence. The only complaint against this album is an increased usage of strings (when you have a voice like her's, why cloud the issue?). However, "Hasten Down the Wind" on the whole is another fine vehicle for Linda Ronstadt to display her band, her taste in picking material and her incredible voice. It's _good evidence. 
* * * 

'Hard Rain' 
by dom salemi 
A perfunctory lp, this. Obviously released to cash in on Bob's recent first-time-ever T.V. spectacular, Hard Rain is a forceful album flawlessly perfor­med and excellently arranged. 
The question is, of course, whether anyone who owns anv of Bob's stuff at all, will want to buy this album, half of which is culled from Blood On The Tracks and Desire. The other songs on the lp are mostly sentimental dreck with the excep­tion of "Memphis Blues," possibly the worst song Dylan has ever written. Besides the definitive live Dylan Ip released during his last tour, there really is no excuse for this album except to add to the already overladen coffers of Columbia to everyone around her; she becomes progressively crazier, because all her attempts meet with her husband's vicious disapproval. With his screaming, yelling, and an occasional slap in the face, he convinces her that she is "wacko". 

Miss Rowlins uses a routine of role-play­ing to visualize her inner conflicts and struggles. For example, after she has sent her kids off to spend the night with her mother, her husband calls saying that an emergency at work won't allow him to come that evening, which was to be their "special night together." Mabel feels jilted, picks up a guy at a bar. When she comes face to face with her husband the next morning she screams at him, "You're Nick Longetti, I'm Mabel Longetti." Then she clenches her fists and threatens to beat him up. This is how she would like to treat the real Nick Longetti, but she is starved for affection. By spoon-feeding her with bits of tenderness, Nick makes her completely submissive so that any spark of individuality in her is completely quenched. 
Mabel, beneath it all, is a sensitive and creative woman and a good mother. Her 
"Maggie's Farm," which kicks off side one. is perhaps the best thing here. Performed with more punch than the ori~inal. it .features Mick Ronson's stinging guttar behmd some samba like rhythms. ~ylan seems to be enjoying himself Immensely as he fades {)Ut at the end of each verse, only to return snarling in a capella: "Ah I ain't gonna work ... " 
then, nearly drowned out by the emergence of slashing percussion, under­scoring the venemously spit out vocal. "I Threw It All Away," another oldie, from Nashville Skyline, is also nicely done. incorporating interesting harmony with a plaintive Dyaln dispairing over the loss of his lady love. 
The newer songs performed are pretty faithful to the original renditions, but the material is so beautiful that one can never really get tired of hearing them done anywhere. "Sister, Oh Sister," contrasts the mournful. somber tones of Scarlet Rivera's violin with the harshly pulled notes of Dylan's gl-Jitar. "Shelter From The Storm,'' with its dramatic breaks between verses is done almost like a polka, its bass lines functioning as the lead over a heavily tinged c & w backdrop. Here Dylan's delivery is a forceful and moving presence, his inflected rhythmical nuances adding to the graceful motion of the melody: "Idiot Wind," and "Big Girl Now,'' two of the better songs from Blood On The Tracks, are routinely done but they gain greater force in live performance. 
Dylan sounds very much involved on this lp and his apparent interest in performing gives much of Hard Rain a dynamic and provoking edge. l don't know whether it would be worth runni!]g out to buy the album. But in a year of obligatory live releases, Hard Rain is one of the best of the 
lot. • • • 
anna monardo 

favorite outlets are singing and dancing, and every once in awhile she very symbolically falls into her own rendition of "the Dying Swan " from the ballet, Swan Lake. 
Her husband's only outlet is anger. Peter Falk is also excellent in his perform­ance as Nick, the hot-tempered, earthy husband. Nick's struggle is in a way more desperate than his wife's. He is constantly groping for a mode of behavior with his family and friends which will prove them to be normal. His intentions are always commendable; the force with which he tries to carry them out is what ruins it for everyone. He tries so hard and so proud!~ to make strong his sense of self that he violate~ any communication which could be brought about.· Th;s is evident in his dictates to his children to "be happy, have fun, act like nothing's wrong. forget the past," and to his friends, "I don't want anyone to talk about my business." 
It is interesting to note that for the most part the action of the movie takes place in only two settings: inside the Longetti's home and at Nick's work site. These peoples' entire lives are bound within the two narrow confines of work and home. In fact, Mabel's sojourn at a mental hospital is related merely bv the words "6 months later" upon the -screen. It is as if those six months never happen because things really do not change at all. · 
The presence of the children intensifies the drama immensely. The tenderness and concern which they show for their mother is touchingly sincere; the distrust which gradually grows towards their father is even more touching. There is much Oedipal imagery: between mother and sons, father and daughter. and even Mabel and her father. However, the messages of this film are uniquely subtle and every­thing is most tastefully done. 
The photography together with the acting creates a masterful piece of art. The scenes in which Nick's friends come for spaghetti dinner is amusingly genuine. The camera manages to catch Mabel's facial expressions at various degrees of despair so that at times she seems a pathetic woman and at others, a helpless child. 
A Woman Under the Influence examines a family under great pressures to be happy; however, it relates to and even mocks a society in which conformity to social conventions has become a pervading idol. One leaves the movie as one leaves Pirandello's play. Henry IV. feeling as if we are all crazy and the "lunatic" is the only sane soul to be~-..... 

I f, 
. ~ ' 
-~ 

'Long may you Run' 
by gregg bangs 

This record was being damned even befo~e it came out. It was orginally going to be the long sought after UJird Crosby, St­ills, Nash and Young album, but that fell though (what else is new). Critics said that Young was making the album simply to revive Stills' career which has not exactly been sparkling recently. A common verdict was that Young would carry Stills through an album that would do nothing for either of them. 
Well, the album is not "Deja' Vu," but Stephen Stills and Neil Young have made a pleasant recording which has several fine moments. There are nine cuts on the disc; four written by Stills and five by Young. Both take the featured instruments in the songs they wrote (usually lead guitar. althou,RhYouns hits the harmonica pretty 
I [continued on 


----~ 

the observer Tuesday, September 21, 1976 
~------~~~~~~~----­
College students·name worthy heroes' list 

Who do college students respect most? Who are their heroes? 
A University of Florida professor recently posed these questions as a :lassroom assignment and obtain­~d some startling results. 
Dr. William Goldhurst asked 100 ;ophomore humanities students at ::Jainsville. Fla.. to name their Kroc... .tppl) ; ••.., .:-~ .::oncept of 
'The Nine Worthies," a list of \'orld leaders selected by medieval 1istorians as the greatest heroes of 
What's cooking? 
The executive vice president contributed South Carolina Fried Chicken, the wife of the athletic director submitted Hot Cabbage and Poor Man's Beef Wellington came from the director of the pre-medical program. 
The result was "The Notre Dame Cookbook: Before and After the Game." published by Sheed And­rews and McMeel. Kansas City, Mo.. and edited by Flo Yeandel, the wife of a NIOltre Dame adminis­trator. From Alumni Beefsteak through Zucchini Casserole, more than 300 recipes were gathered from around the campus and off to tease the palate of the football fan. 
A less elaborate but very popular attempt to bracket gridiron con­tests with culinary siill was pub­lished by the Notre Dame Library Association in 1971. The new edition's royalties will go to the Association for purchase of books for the Rare Book Room of the University's Memorial Library. 
Notre Dame's highest-ranking gourmet cook. Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., provost of the University. contributed recipes for oyster stew and for a fettucini dish made with clams. Among the ethnic delicacies are a cold appeti­zer of Stuffed Grape Leaves created by former head football coach Ara Parseghian and an Armenian ver­sion of Steak Tartare from his wife, Katie. 
"The Notre Dame Cookbook" is m sale at bookstores for $6.95. 
all time. The students' selections are reported in the Autumn 1976 issue of Horizon, the magazine of world history, art and culture. 
The students were asked to name outstanding people from any era so long as the nominees reflected values in which the students be­lieved. The individuals receiving the greatest number of votes were, in sequential order, Martin Luther King, Jr., Henry Kissinger, John 
F. Kennedy and Abraham Lincoln. 
This group was followed by Winston Churchill, Franklin Del­ano Roosevelt, Albert Einstein, and Ralph Nader. The ninth person named was Mao Tse~tung. 
The reasons given by the stu­dents selections were these: King died in a noble cause; Kissinger travels world-wide seeking peace; Kennedy advanced civil rights and aid to the elderly; Lincoln freed the slaves and preserved the Union; 
Tix still available for Grateful Dead 
Although Student Union Ticket 
Office sold out their limited allot­
ment of Grateful Dead tickets, 
another batch of tickets has been 
ordered and will be on sale 
Tuesday or Wednesday. 
The grateful Dead perform Fri-j 
day October 1 at Market Square 
Arena, Indianapolis. Tickets are 
also available at other River City 
Review ticket outlets in Niles and 
Elkhart and at Just For The Record 
and Boogie Records in Mishawaka. 
Baroque Trio cancels conce.rt 
The Saint Mary's College Depar­ment of Music has announced that the concert by the New Baroque Trio, originally scheduled for Sep­tember 23, has been postponed indefinitely due to the recent scheduling of the first presidential debate on the same evening. 
~Q 

Join us and See: mruo~lfuo@rru@ 
FE:STIVAL 

13 different events in all!!! 
17 

FREE Entrance for student ushers Discounts, parties, fun.... Sign up now!! Write Century Center, 306 S. Notre Dame Ave. South Bend 46617 Phone: 284-9711 
Roosevelt led the way out of the challenge, according to Dr. Gold­Great Depression; Churchill with­hurst, an associate professor of stood the Nazis; Einstein added a English and the Humanities. It new dimension to our understand­also meant bringing hope to those ing of the universe; Ralph Nader in despair. protects the consumer from being 
The Horizon article points outripped off by industry and big that artists, composers, poets andbusiness; Mao brought China into thinkers were not overlooked by thethe twentieth century. 
students. Shakespeare, Beethoven To the students, leadershtp and Picasso received about 10 votes meant the ability to meet a great each. Darwin, Freud, Karl Marx, 
Socrates and Jesus were among the 10 percenters. Adolph Hitler received four votes. John Mitchel and Richard M. Nixon each receiv­ed three. 
Anonymous received two votes for the poetry he had composed throughthe ages. Dr. Goldhurst received two votes for assigning what was termed a fascinating project." 


.. 

9 -12 
'.25 DRAFTS EVERY TUESDAY '.25 MIXED DRINKS live Country-Western entertainment Wednesday night! 


~~---~------~ ~ --­

Action 
Express 
ACTION EXPRESS sponsored by the OMBUDSMAN open Monday-Friday 9:00 to 5:00 283-7638 
Q. I'm a freshman and I'd like to learn the words to the Notre Dame Victory March. Where can I get a copy? 
A. You can get the words to the tight song at the Band Office phone #7136. 
Q. Is there a place on campus where I can get clothes dry cleaned? 
A. There is a place to get clothes dry cleaned in the building located next to Lewis Hall. 
Q. Does Notre Dame have a Notary Public on campus? 
A. Yes, there are three places to et things notarized. Mr. Facden-
Hunger Coalition beginning third year 
by Marty Standiford StaffReporter 

The ND-SMC World Hunger Coalition is starting its third year of work toward promoting awareness in the South Bend community of world hunger, poverty and injust­ice. 
Mike Bowler and Kitty Warner, 1976 Coalition Chairmen give three goals toward which the Coalition will be working to create an awareness of poverty and injustice existing in the world today, to form a community of concerned stu­dents, and to help the community reflect upon its life style and how that lifestyle might be simplified.. 
The Wednesday night fasting and collections in front of the dining halls are only two of the activities the Coalition hopes to undertake. For those who fast and any others interested, there will be a special mass and liturgy on Wednesday, Sept. 22, at 5:15pm at Sacred Heart. 
Also, this Saturday there will be a picnic for anyone interested in joining the Coalition next to Carrol Hall from 11:00 am until1 :00 pm. 
Other activities include the Cam-
The Notre Dame Student Union Presents IN CONCERT 

BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN 
and the E STREET BAND 
SAT· OCT. 9 Tickets $6.50 & $5.50 At the Notre Dame ACC Tickets on sale, Monday, Sept. 20 Available at the ACC Box Office, the Student Union Ticket Office, and all ACC ticket outlets. Limit 10 tickets er erson. 
pus Chapter of Bread for the World, a group which lobbies for the Coalition's objectives, sponsors speakers from the Young Republi­cans and Young Democrats clubs to address hunger issues and a possi­ble hunger walk in late October. There will be a meeting on the Bread for the World program on Wednesday, Sept, 29 in the library lounge. 
AlE-SEC to hold meeting tonight 
The AlE-SEC (International As­
sociation of Economics and Busi­
ness Students) is flourishing again 
at Notre Dame. This group, which 
is not limited to business majors, 
organizes temporary jobs for for­
eign students here in the United 
States. 
In turn._ Notr~ Dame students 
have the opportunity to work for 6 
weeks to 18 months in their fields 
in 56 countries around the world. 
A meeting to welcome new 
members will be held Tuesday, 
Sept. 21, in the Lafortune Ballroom 
at 7:00pm. 
da's secretary in 306 of the Ad building, Betty Fitterling at the Office of International Students in the basement of LaFortune and Marge or Billie in 315 of the Ad building can all help you out. 
Q. My parents are coming here for the weekend. Besides the customary tour of campus, where can I take them? 
A. Though South Bend does lack the excitement of Chicago perhaps your parents would like to shop. Scottsdale Mall, the 100 Center in Mishawaka, or the North Village Mall in Roseland are all good places. If you'd rather stay outside, how about Amish Acres or the fragrance gardens across from Leeper Park? As a last resort, there's always the movies. 
Any questions? Drop them off at the Ombudsman Office in the LaFortune Student Center or call us at 283-7638. 
----------,,..-------~ 
9

Tuesday, September 21, 1976 the observer
At ND-SMC 

Young democrats organizec 
by Mark Frieden Staff Reporter 
Brian Hanigan, Northern Indiana District Coordinator for Jimmy Carter, was the central figure at last night's organizational meeting of the ND-SMC Young Democrats. 
Hanigan stressed two major issues upon which the Carter campaign is based; leadership, citing the growth of cynicism and economic policies, citing the Re­publicans' favoring of the status quo and high unemployment. 
Hanigan also mentioned the upcoming opening of the Carter Headquarters Thursday Sept. 23 at 
7:30. Carter Headquarters are located at 106 South Main Street and will be the scene of a forum following the first debate between Carter and Ford Thursday, Sept. 23. 
Falduto is acting as temporary director of the club and hopes to increase the membership to 150 or 160. 
Falduto and Hanigan admitted it was going to be a tough race and urged volunteers to donate their time to make the campaign a success for the whole Democratic ticket. 

UNITED STATES READING LAB OFFERS SPEED READING COURSE AT NOTRE DAME 
United States Reading Lab will offer a 4 week course in speed reading to a limited number of qualified people at Notre Dame. 
This recently developed method of instruction is the most innovative and ef­fective program available in the United States. 
Not only does this famous course reduce your time in the classroom to just 
· one class per week for 4 short weeks but it also includes an advanced speed reading course on cassette tape so that you can continue to improve for the rest of your life. In just 4 weeks the average student should be reading 4-5 times faster. In a few months some students are reading 20-30 times faster attaining speeds that ~proach 6000 words per minute. In rare instances speeds of up to 13,000 wpm have been documented. Our average graduate should read 7-1 0 fi mes faster upon completion of the cou,.se with marked improvement in comprehension and concentration. 
For those who would like additional information, a series of free, one hour, orientation lectures have been schedules. 
At these free lectures the course will be explained in complete detail, including classroom procedures, instruction meth­ods, dass schedule and a special 1 time only introductory tuition that is less than one-half the cost of similar courses. You fl'lust attend any of the free meetings for information about Notre Dame classes. 
These orientations are open to the public, above age 14 (persons under 18 should be accompanied by a parent if possible}. 
If you have always wanted to be a speed reader but found the cost prohibi­tive or the oourse too time consuming ... now you can! Just by attending 1 evening per week for 4 short weeks you can read ; 7 to 1 0 times faster, concentrate better and oomprehend more. 
~ 
,,..~._~
t'.:..::t.
~ 
.:-~"...-· 
[Photo by Dominick Yocius] 

If you are a student who would like to make A's instead of B's or C's or if you are a business person who wants to stay abreast of today's everchanging acceler­ating world then this course is an· absolute necessity. 
These free special one-hour lectures will be held at the fo.llowing times and places. 
NOTRE DAME MEETINGS 
Tuesday: Sept. 21, at 6:30 p.m. and 
again at 8:30 p.m. Wednesday: Sept. 22, at 6:30 p..m. and again at 8:30p.m. 
Thursday: Sept. 23, at 6:30 p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. Friday: Sept. 24, at 6:30p.m. and again at8:30 p.m. 
Sunday: Sept. 26, at 2:30p.m. and again 
at 5:30p.m. Monday: Sept. 27, at6:30 p.m. and again at8:30 p.m. 
TWO FINALMEETINGS 
Tuesday: Sept. 28, at 6:30 p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. 
THESE MEETINGS WILL BE HELD AT NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR CONTIN• UING EDUCATION 
If you are a businessman, student, housewife or executive this couse, which took 5 years of intensive research to develop, is a must. You can read 7 -10 times faster, comprehend more, ooncen­trate better, and remember longer. Students are offered and additional discount. This oourse can be taught to 
• tindustry or civic groups at "Group rates" upon request. Be sure to attend whichever free orientation that fits best in your schedule. 
l
j 
• 
• ~ 
---~~-------------­
-
10 the observer Tuesday, September 21, 1976 
IsearsI 3 things that every college student should know: 

I.You can SAVE ss on this 
slide-rule calculator 

a. 
An 8-tli~it slide rule calculator can make the difference in the speed anti <H'1'ura1·y with which you sohe complex prohlems. \\"ork square roots, squares, recipr01·als in­stantly. 4-key memory lets you work 2 problem~ at once. Has pereent key, floatin~ deeimal and lar~e ~reen di~ital display. With case. Huns on hatteries (ineluded). Op­tional adapter aYailahle. 

b. 
Re~. $24.99 . Full slide-rule ealeulator with s<'ientific nota· tion, 4-key memory. Hun"' on hatterie~ (induded). Op­tional adapter available. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19.97 


2.You can SAVE s40 on our Electric I typewriter 
SALE 99~!"., .. 
$139.99 
Term paper~, lab report:;, e:;says-it's hard to re1luce your typing load, hut you can make your job easier with Sears Electric l portahle. Has wide 12 ineh carriage with pre-set tab positions for fast column work. With ~ 1lifferent re· peat keys, standard pica type. Typewriter cover included. 
3.You can SAVE s4 on Sears carry-pack shelving 
SALE 10~7"."' 
$14.99 
Don't limit yourself to dorm room furniture. Expand your storage space with Sears 4-!ihelf steel shehing unit. Walnut-eolor unit will accommodate stereo equipment. records, hooks. Has ad.iustable sheh·es, decoratiYe end panels. Comes unassembled. 
Sale prices in effect throup:h October 2, 1976 Ask about Sears Credit Plans 
SEAHS, R6EBlJCK AND CO. A vailabJe in larp:er Sears Hetail Stores and Catalop: 
I. ..~ ' l 
• -•• :::0.1.' 

~~--~-~----~---~----~----~-----­
-----------------------------------------------------------------~~~ 
the Observer
_T~u~e~s=d=a~y~,~S=e~p=t=e~m~b=e~r~2~1~,_1~9~7~6~----~~~~~~~~~--­
Carter campaign ,, 1 
"Give 'em hell, Jimmy!" 
Harrisburg, Pa. [AP] -Jimmy Carter invoked the spirit of Harry Truman and talked about unempl­oyment yesterday as he rode a campaign train on a "Give 'em hell, Jimmy" whistlestop tour of the eastern industrial states 
ln a moment reminiscent of Truman's 1948 campaign, an onlo­oker at Overbrook, Pa., shouted, "Give 'em hell, Jimmy!" as Carter berated Republican economic poli­cies. 
At each stop along the route that took the Democratic presidential candidate from New York City through New Jersey and across Pennsylvania, Carter cited unemp­loyment rates and linked them to President Ford's two years in the White House. 
It was a shift in emphasis, away from the subject of tax reform that had dominated campaign rhe­toric over the weekend after Carter aired his views that the tax burden should be shifted away from lower and middle income groups to higher income brackets. The Renublicans accused him of want­
ing to raise taxes for half the tamilies in the nation -a claim that Carter said was a distortion of his position. 
Carter and other Democratic 
speakers were hampered by a 
faulty public address system as 
they spoke at a rally on the steps of 
the state capitol here, but office 
workers showered the visiting can­didate with confetti and cheered from open windows when he waved at them. 
Pledge Repeated 
Carter gave the crowd his often repeated pledge to reform the federal bureaucracy which he said is "horribly confused, wasteful and bloated." He added that "Gerald Ford has been in Washington for 28 years and he's part of it. He'll never change it.'' 
At Neward and Trenton,Carter told rallies there were 77,000 people in New Jersey who had jobs two years ago but were unemploy­ed now. 
Once the train entered Pennsyl­vania, the candidate told crowds, "In the last two years since President Ford took office, we've had 125,400 fewer people who now have jobs in Pennsylvania than held them then." 
Tying the unemployment rate to inflation and the rising cost of housing, Carter said, "This shows the msensitivity of the Republicans to you and your life." 
The Carter whistlestoptour left New Yorks Penn Station about 7:30 
a.m. following a rally in the station concourse that featured bands and banners, speeches and a cheering crowd. A band played the favorite Democratic party campaign song, "Happy Days Are Here Again," as Monday moming commuters arri­ved in Manhattan. 
The train was to stop for the night at Pittsburgh , and Carter planned to return to his Plains, Ga. home to continue preparations for his debate Thursday night with Ford, white his wife Rosalynn and his vice presidential running mate, Sen. Walter F. Mondale, replaced him for the second day's leg across Ohio, Indiana and into Chicago. 
All the states through which the train passes are critical in the campaign planning of both Ford and Carter. 

Optimism held for Rhodesian settlements 
[continued from page 3} rule in Rhodesia within two years; a 
constitutional conference in Genev­
a; the broadening of the Rhodesian 
cabinet to include black national­
ists; and a $2-billion fund to 
West Point cheatingdestroys honor system 
WEST ISLIP, N.Y. (AP) -From 
he time their only son was born, Kenneth and Ann Curley wanted him to be a West Pointer. They were not disappointed. 
They wanted to savor his suc­cesses -the medals, the awards and the trophies. Again they were not disappointed. 
They wanted him to be a leader, at the top of his class. He was. Now he is a convicted West Point cheater. 
The cheating charge has created what Mrs. Curley calls a "living nightmare'' of recriminations from their family, pointed comments from friends and telephone calls from cranks. 
He was once among the most promising leaders at West Point and in line to become fourth-
NOTICES 

Flanner Records now open fo· business. L. P. 's in stock and on order. List $6.98. Our price $4.65. 8-tracks and cassettes also available. 
list$7.98. Our price $5.75. Ask for prices and information on car decks and speakers, blank tapes, C. B.'s and other accessories. Call 1492 or stop by 809 Flanner Hall. 
Morrissey Loan Fund. $20 · 150. day wait. 1 percent interest. due in 30 days. LaFortune Basement. M· F, 11:15-12:15. 
For free delivery and low prices on kee~s just call Chip. 288-7878. 
Will teach flute in your spare time. 
Call Beth . 8112 for more info. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 232.-0746. 
Free kittens 3 mos. old. Phone 272-2520 after 3:00 p.m. 
FOR RENT For rent furnished six bedroom home, two baths, fireplace, 2 blocks from Notre Dame in safe neighbor­hood. $225 a month plus utilities. Also four bedroom furnished, four blocks from Notre Dame. $175 a month plus utilities. 277 3604 evenings. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: 1 high school ring. says Benet Academy. Red stone, yellow gold setting, 1974 ring, initials P.A.R. 1 St. Mary's class ring; traditional diamond chip, 1978 ring, initials 
P.A. R. B.A. gold antiqued setting. they were lost somewhere between Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
ranking cadet in the entire corps. Now he has a clouded future. His triped are gone and his pride bruised. He was convicted in August by an officer board in West Point's cheating scandal. 
"It really hurts," Cadet Curley, 20, says. "It really destroyed me ­all this for one damned writ. 
The ''writ,'' cadet slang for a test, was the homework assign­ment administered early last March to 823 members of the Class ....f 1977. Roughly a quarter of the class was accused of collaborating on it, and those accused say the number is but a tip of the iceberg. 
They are scapegoats and should be punished less lightly than what amounts to a year's suspension, thf' · say. The honor system. they comend, isn't working. 
Lost: Clear and black li!)hter with fish hook at Jun!)le Jim's birthday party. If found call Harsh at 8212. Great sentimental value. 
Lost: Kodak lnstamati'c camera. No questions, cash reward. Brian 8462. 
Lost: !)Old hoop earrin!); Sat. Ni!)ht at parties or bars. Great sentimen­tal value. Please call 4255. 
WANTED 

Ride needed to and from Cincinnati, weekend of 24th. 1334. 
A!)!)ressive !)entleman to help gen­eral manager part-lime. Will trade 
salary  for  room  and  board.  ·  Call  
272-7522 for interview.  
Need 2 or 4 GA Oregon tick-ets.  Call  

Mark 1473. 
Need 2 Alabama tickets. Please help . call Peg!)y : 4-4381. 
Need 6 Ore!)on tickets not necessar­ily to!)ether. Call Robbie 8706., 
3 Barna tickets needed -anything reasonable. 8775. 
Keep laughin!), but I still need two 'Bamatickets. G.A. preferred. Paul 1154. 
Part-time work, telephone ticket sales. Evenings and Saturdays. Pleasant working conditions. Salary and bonuses. Call 237-1976. Mr. Richardson. 
Need 2 Oregon tix. Will pay $$$. 
Call Steve at 287-6823. 
compensate whites who leave Rho­desia and to fi.nance development 
of the country under black rule. 
The United States, Britain, South Africa and other foreign countries would supply the money. 
Whether or' not Smith, who unilaterally proclaimed Rhodesia's independence from Britain 11 years ago. will carry on being prime minister until a new constitution is written seems an open question. some authorities on Rhodesian politics think another man might be chosen to carry out the process Smith himself has vowed he never would do. 
In the interview in Salisbury, Smith said the international politi­cal and trade sanctions imposed against Rhodesia would have to be called off as part of any black-white settlement. 
"I think the two must go together," Smith said. 
African diplomats said another request by Smith was that the guerrilla war being carried out by black Rhodesian nationalists from neighboring countries should be called off when negotiations begin. 
Kaunda said yesterday, "The fighting is going on now but we want to stop it." 
Classified Ads 
Needed: 2 or 4 GA Oregon fix. Call Steve 287-6058. 
Riders wanted to Ann Arbor Friday. Leave 1 :00. Return Sunday after­noon. 233-3903. Mike. 
FOR SALE 
12-string Giannini !)uitar . askin!J $190 . will talk swap for 6 strin!J (steel) of comparable value. Call Bill 8795. 
Mexican Huaraches. all leather with tire tread bottoms. Sizes 3 to 11 (will fit guys and gals). For more information call Tony at 8212 or come by 1028 Grace to see. $13. 
62 Mercedes, 4-dr., fine condition, radials, stereo S-track. $1100. 287-7693. 
NEW LONDON LAKE CONDO· MINIUM. 2 bedrooms, den, 2 car gara!)e. $33,900. S.~ndy Stroes. 272-7750 -272-2696. 
For' sale: 3 pc. bE!droom set. Includes 4 drawer chest, 6 drawer dresser with mirror. Foot board and head board. Call 272-2520 after 3 p.m. 

In a rut already? 
WANT" TO l'R~ ~­


SMC Observer organizational meeting 
Tonight 7 p.m. SMC bureau, Regina basement, room 8 NO students welcome! 

Rugby Jersey Rugby Jersey Rugby Jersey. Exactly like Bookstore. Our price 511.00. Great Midwest T. Co. 289-5941. 
Directors Chair personalized. All colors and finishes. 522.50. Great Midwest T. Co. 289-5941. 
PERSONALS 
SMC OKTOBERFEST is coming soon! You won'r miss it. You will like it. 
0 PEN lNG THIS WEEK! Ray's Massage Parlor. Experienced mas­seur, bring own Jergen's lotion. 
Brigid, 1think I need some more analysis. I've started chewing ice a[lain, and 1 lost all my gold tees. Joe 
DETROIT CLUB is sponsorin!) weekend trip to M.S. U. game. Packa[le includes round trip train and G.A. ticket. Detroit area members $19.00, guests $22.00. Need preliminary count for train reservation by Thursday, 91/13. Please call now .... Sue 233-3605. 
SEMPRE Tl AMO RAINBOWS CLOSE No longer carrying puddles around. 
Matt, Kevin, J.P. We still love you. Come see us again. 218 
Captain Zoom sends a belated birthday wish to David. Hope no one popped your balloon!!! 
Bozo's circus and clowns Dear R.S. 

Incest is best. 
Love, 
Holly, Mom and the crew 

Happy belated birthday to Jim from Fairfield. 
J.l. and R.M. 

Annette, Jim and Ar.1y, 
Greetin!)s! The ~uad is C]reat. t mean a rtas, at least if Jim keeps up on the gelucil. That's t terrific! Keep up the drugs! 
C.S.P.T., 
Love, 
Bev 

Fight for your rights N D' i.MC. lnPIRG meeting, Wed .• 7:00p.m.. LaFortune Basement. 
Happy Le!)end-Day Bob. Play some Code . 
Len, 
Have you found any wild ones yet? 
Hi Sandy, Dick, Jeff et al!!! How's Rome? from Everybody here 
:>ENIOR ADVISORY COUNCIL 
MEETING. t-1:15 Wednesday, Sep 
tember 22. Rm. 124, Hayes-Healy. 
Wake Up Notre Dame! Today is Bev O'Connell's birthday! (Beverly to you.) She's 21 and ready to run. In short, she needs a date tor her 21st. Call287-2219 and say 'Happy Birth· day, Bev, we love you.' 
~ 
1 
l 
1 
l 1 l 
1f• 
l 
J 
! 
I 
~ 
1 
~ 
1 
I j 
l 1 
j 
J 
I 
l 
j I I 
1 
l 
l 1 
1 
... 
... 
----r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, September 21, 1976
12 the observer 
NO's Don Criqui: voice of the Irish 
law school throughout his Notre 
by Fred Herbst Dame career, he finally decided 

Sports Editor 

against law and took a job at a radio station in Erie Pa. doing Gannon Notre Dame is known for its College athletic events. 
contributions to the world of sports. 
After only a few months there,The University's athletic traditions he returned to South Bend to have long been a focal point of accept a position with WSBT radio national attention with Irish alumni and television. Soon he became playing in each of the four major sports director for both the statio­professional sports -major league n's radio and TV outlets, where he baseball. football, hockey and bas­did 80-90 high school basketball ketball. 

games and 30-35 high school But one of Notre Dame's great­football games a year besides doingest contributions to the sports Notre Dame athletic events. 
scene isn't an athlete, he's a Then Ara Parseghian came to broadcaster. Since his graduation Notre Dame and Criqui's career go
from the University in 1962, Don an unexpected "My
t boost. 
Criqui has become one of the most second year with WSBT, Ara respected · and well-known an­Parseghian came to Notre Dame nouncers in the business. ­
and they started to do real For Criqui it all began during his well, attracting a lot of national 
childhood in Buffalo, N.Y. "I was attention," he related. "So I dlling play-by-play . when I was 
started sending in taped reports to 12-ycars old sitting in the stands." 
WCBS (the CBS network base he reminisced (during the Purdue 
station) in New York. Frank game.) Gifford was sports director for 
An excellent athlete in high 
CBS then and he liked my style,"school. where he stood out in 
Criqui related. "So I went to New basketball. baseball and swim­
York for an interview.'' 
ming. Criqui later turned down 
The interview was successful for -;everal scholarship offers from 
Criqui, and he's been working in )ther schools to attend Notre 
New York for the last ten years.Dame. While Criqui is familiar to most 
After deciding to major in com­Notre Dame fans as the voice of munications, he joined the staff of Frighting Irish football on the WSND radio. He worked at the Mutual Radio Newwork, he is station for· three years, serving as involved in quite a bit more. He is Sports Director his junior and presently director of sports at senior years. "That's when I really WOR-TV in New York as well a to motivate salesmen. "There's an got into broadcasting," Criqui entering into his tenth season of equation between golf and busine­said. "To be a broadcaster you doing NFL football for CBS. He ss," he noted. "The key to both is have to be on the air, you have to will also return for another season preparation. We compare the two get practical experience." of NBA basketball on CBS this to demonstrate how a salesman 
Interestingly , it was another year. might improve." very successful broadcaster who Besides is his work in sports Despite all of his success, Criqui gave Criqui his start at WSND, Tim broadcasting, Criqui, as a spokes­sees disadvantages in his. career. Ryan. Ryan, currently an announ­man for Trans World Airlines "The thing I don't like is that you cer for NBC Sports specializing in (TWA), does commercials for a get extremely well known," he hockey, was sports director at the number of companies and makes complained. "I'd like to be just campus station the two years motivational films for salesmen. another person when I get out of 
before Criqu1 took over. He seems particularly proud of the booth." Despite planning on attending his films. In them Criqui uses golf The other problem he faces is 
Phi/lies feel pressure of '64 
when the tournament's riding on itPlllLADELPiflA [AP] J-Like a The Phillies once oemmanded a than it is to make it on the firstvulture hovering menacingly over a 151l2-game lead over the Pittsburgh hole."

wounded animal. one question Pirates. Now, after losing 18 of Because the race has tightenedfollows the Philadelphia Phillies their last 25 games, it's down to up so dramatically, all eyes are onevery time they lose a game. four. After an off-day, they open a the Phillies now. They are news.
Hanging on to an endangered three-game series at home against And shortstop Larry Bowa doesn'tlead. in the National League East, St. Louis Tuesday. Only 14 games like life in a fishbowl.
the Phillies are forced to contend remain. 
"Everything gets blown up," thewith a nightmare of the past. 

harsh word any

Choke is a to fiery competitor said. "Make an"Does the team feel it's 1964 all 
professional. But it's been tossed 
over again?" the error in April or May and it's no big
comes question 

around frequently with the same 
thing. It's just 'E-Bowa.' Make anfrom reporters. Over and over 

breath as the Phillies. One cruel. 
error in September and it's head­again. the question comes. 

joke floating around town is that 
lines; 'Bowa Chokes.' 

Patiently, they answer 'no'. 
the team will be moved to The 
The Phillies got a pep talk on theWhat happened 12 years ago when 

Philippines and renamed the "Ma­
subject of 1964 from Coach Bobbya Philadelphia team blew a 6'l2 nila Folders." 

Wine, who lived through the agonygame lead with 12 games remain­

Slugging third baseman Mike 
of the 10-game losing streak thating has no bearing on this team at 

Schmidt shrugs off such talk. "If I 
cost the Phillies the pennant.

all. they say outwardly. Inwardly, 
fail in a crucial situation and you, 
"I told them the same littlethe recollection of the infamous 

the media, want to say I failed 
things happened then as now,"choke gnaws at them. 

because of the pressure, that's 
Wine said, "but we didn't have''I'd like to win just to shut them 

your business." he said. 
time to work it out then." Wine'sup." said Greg Luzinski after a 

''And if the fans want to believe 
message was clear--the Phillies cansportscaster hit manager Danny that, that's their business. All I still put the brakes on a frighteningOzark with the question during the know, tougher to skid and right themselves. Thenweekend series with the Chicago It's make a five-foot putt on the 18th green "the question" can be laid to rest.

Cubs. 
· Win this thing. and we'll never hear that again." he added. "The wav it is now. that's always the first 
Sailing team wins second
thii1g they ask. "Thev don't sav. 'Hi. how are _vou?' -They say. 'What's the 
annual Notre Dame regatta
difference between this and '64?' You get sick of it. Hell, I was 14 
by Gus Anderson 

years old in '64,'' the big outfielder races instead of the scheduled said. thirteen due to light wind condit­This weekend marked ions. Paul Makielski and BuzzPirates lose to the second regatta of the Notre Teynolds skippered all nine_ ~a~es Dame• Sailing Team and their for ND's A division and B divistonMets in 9th second, first place victory. The respectively. The win was a more Irish hosted thirteen schools at than welcome one for the Irish New York [AP] -Rookie Lee Eagle Lake last Saturday in its first sailors as they will probably move Mazzilli slammed a two-run homer home intersectional race of the fall into top ten ranking due to the 
wi\lJ two out in the ninth inning ,season. Among them were two caliber of the teams at the race. .. Monday, lifting the New York Mets ·other sailing powers, Tufts Univer-Next weekend the sailing team 
t.J 5-4 victory over Pittsburgh and sity" and Flortda State. Tufts travels to Oshkosh, Wisconsin to stalling the Pirates' pennant drive. skipper took low boat in the A face eight other teams in a Midwest 
The ·Joss, Pittsburgh's third in division while Greg Fisher, an Collegiate Sailing Association sec­the four-game series against the All-American from Miami of Ohio tional regatta. As a reminder to Mets, dropped the Pirates 4'12 skippered low boat in the B interested students, the sailing 
games behind Philadelphia in the d~vision. Despite this Notre Dame team conducts open meetings ev­National League East. The Phils received first place after the com­ery Wed. night at six thirty in room were idle Monday. bined scoring. 303 of the Engineering Building. · 

that of traveling without his wife and four children. "I've turned down a lot of opportunities just because I didn't want that much travel. I try to keep it to a minimum as much as I can." 
Still, he enjoys coming back to his alma mater to broadcast Notre Dame football. "I love the college atmosphere," Criqui explained. "But the most impressive thing about Notre Dame footbal is that they win within the rules. There's a set of rules that few teams adhere to, and Notre Dame is one. It says a lot about the University. \'~more proud of that than I am about winning." 
The man who's morning radio show reaches more people than any other show outside the Iron Curtain is more than satisfied with his career. "It's a great industry for those in it," Criqui said. "Getting a job is the hardest part, but no school better prepares you than Notre Dame." 
Don Criqui should know. 

*Observer 
Sports 
SMC notches fifth straight net victory 
maintain their team pride."
by Nancy Stefkovich Peterson's thoughts are now con­cernedwith the state tournamentSt. Mary's tennis team continu­next weekend in which St. Mary'sed their undefeated season by will meet strong teams such as IU

winning all nine matches against and Purdue.
St. Joseph's College of Rensaleer Friday. This extended their record to 5-0. 
The singles competition, number 
Soccer club splits 
one player, Barb Timm defeated Betsy Fink of St. Joe's 6-1, 6-2. Number two player, Louise Purcell by Kevin Connolly easily won her match against BaTbara Fink 6-0, 6-0. Noreen The Notre Dame Soccer Club 
Bracken won over Awannah Buelt­.gained their first victory last week ermna with scores of 6-1, 6-0. Ann but suffered disappointing defeats Daniels took Joanie Burke 6-0, 6-0, on Friday and Monday. Their as Maura Finneran over St. Joe's record is now 1-3. Kim Clark. Manchester College proved an 
Doubles players, Tami Griffin easy victim on Wednesday night as and Kelee Brogger defeated num­the Irish routed them, 8-1. Terry ber one and two players Betsy and Finnegan, Tim Nauman and Bill 
Barbara Fink, after a lengthy last Hagerty scored two goals apiece for 
set, 6-1. 7-5. Marie McKee and Notre Dame. Roman Klos and Karen Midock won their match John Talbot also added tallies for between Burke and Buelterman, the Irish. 
6-1, 6-1. Susan Marget and Friday's trip proved less success­Kathleen Braken were also victor­ful, however, as ND lost to the U. of · ious over Nancy Quinn and Kimarie Dayton, 5-3. Mark Hentschell, Clark 6-1, 6-1. Nauman and Klos scored the goals 
The fact that St. Mary's unde­in a game the Irish never led. 
feated record places pressure on On Monday afternoon the Irish the team was recognized by Coach lost to St. Francis College at Fort Mark Peterson. He commented, Wayne. The score was tied 0-0 at ''The pressure is mainly within the the half, but St. Francis scored 
girls themselves to keep up their twice in the second half to take a performance so that they can 2-0 decision. 




