

' .. ·' ·' .~. ·' ­


Thieves steal equipment, food in early morning strike at Fisher 
by Bob Mader a.m. Sunday morning by the food afford it." He noted that the hall News Editor sales managers who live in the budget has been set for the year basement of Fisher. Manager Joe and some other expenditures will 
Burglars made off with over $200 Coyne said basement residents have to be postponed to make up worth of food and equipment from first noticed that gym clothes for the loss. The money will come Fisher Hall food sales early Sunday hung in the bathroom to dry were out of the hall treasury, Waddick 
morning, Fisher Hall President 
missing. When they investigated said. Bob Waddick said yesterday. further, the residents discovered The Fisher president advocated the theft of the food sales equip­the return of the hall monitors to
The thieves took two ptzza ovens, ment and called campus security. patrol the residence halls at night.
a Stewart sandwich oven, two cases Waddick estimated the time of "After this incident, along with theof soft drinks and several Stewart the burglary to be between 4 a.m. loss of two television sets here thissandwiches. 
and 6 a.m. According to the hall year and the incidents of theft and The intruders also broke open a president, students who were a­vandalism in other halls. I think 
bag of grated pizza cheese, scatter­wake at 4 a.m. did not notice any there is a good case for bringing ing it over the floor, and broke disturbance. back the hall monitors," Waddick several ceiling panels. Security officers fingerprinted said. 
the basement area and the refri­Both Dean of Students James Waddick said the burglars broke gerator case, Waddick said. Roemer and Director of Security 
into a glass-fronted refrigerated Waddick said he hopes the Arthur Pears declined comment case to get the sandwiches and soft investigation by Security is suc­while the investigation is under­drinks. The ovens were in the open cessful and the items are returned. way. in the game room area used for "We'll have to make the decision According to Waddick, the leads food sales. soon to replace the stolen articles,'' he knows about indicate the bur­
The loss was discovered at 11 :45 Waddick said, "we really can't glars were not students. 
Vol. X, No. 77 
university of notre dome st. mary's college 
Tuesday, February 3, 1976 

Moynihan resigns ambassadorship 
ment."
WASHINGTON !API-Daniel P. Unity to a comment by Kissinger of blunt language, saying: "We maybe it would stop being used. Secretary of State Henry A.
Moynihan, controversial U.S. am­that he would have expressed think the United Nations matters That's not true...what we have said 
Kissinger said at the time there
bassador to the United Nations who himself "in a more restrained and we want to stay there. We is...we will respond to untrue recently complained of lack of had been some criticism of Moyni­manner." think that the only way to stay there charges against us. We will, when han's outspoken approach to U.S.
support. submitted his resignation There have been reports that is to stay and fight." attacked, defend the good name of Monday, administration sources diplomacy wihtin the department, Moynihan would leave his post to this democracy ... '' 
He told the U.N. General Assem­
but he dismissed them. bly in December that it was While he was often said to be
said. run for U.S. Senator in New York, 
Privately, however, traditional

In a letter of reply, Ford accepted but Moynihan denied this, saying becoming "a theatre of the ab­blunt and outspoken, Moynihan
Moynihan's resignation "with the American diplomats continued to on Nov. 26 that he would "consider surd" in accepting "lies" about described his own performance asdeepest regret and reluctance," grumble about Moynihan's out­it dishonorable to leave this post the United States and the North "careful, lawyerlike and perhapsspoken ways.
dedaring that the ambassador had and run for any office." 
Atlantic Treaty Organization. on occasion a trille too intellect­There were reports in late Nov­
"asserted our position forcefully, His outspokenness continued, 
ual."

cogently and honestly" at the ember that the outspoken Moyni­with an attack on the Soviet Union "It has been, perhaps, an Amer­
United Nations. han would quit the U.N. post, and in December saying that Russian ican hope that if we didn't respond On Dec. 12, Moynihan was he scheduled and later abruptly involvement in Angola shows an to attacks upon us, maybe they named winner of the human rights canceled a news conference on intent to colonize Africa. wouldn't be made-if we acted like prize of the international League Nov. 21, telling reporters: "I am Moynihan has defended his use this language wasn't being used, of the Rights of Man. 
not leaving right away." 
He was then called to Washing­ton for a meeting with Ford and Kissinger, which produced a White 
North Quad party plans set 
House declaration of support. 
Reports at the time indicated that Moynihan felt Kissinger and by Ken Bradford some concessions in their plans. dents. The party lost over $1000, others at the State Department Copy Editor "Due to Univeristy policy, we are which was made up by taxing the were not backing Moynihan's out­not providing any alcohol," Sulli­participating halls' treasuries. 
The North Quad Hall presidents
spoken and controversial positions van said. Sullivan noted that a Student at the United Nations. have released final plans for their Sullivan was reluctant, however, Union ski trip would not prove to be "Both President Ford and second annual Mardi Gras party in to discuss what procedures will be any competition for the party since Secretary Kissinger expressed the dining hall Friday night. implemented to keep studentsfrom the trip would probably be cancel­
Moynihan, repeatedly embroiled their strong support for the effec­Residents of all dormitories 011 smuggling alcohol into the dining led. Student Union officials would in the controversy since moving to tive job Ambassador Moynihan has the North Quad will be admitted to hall. not confirm the trip's cancellation the 'United Nations last year, dated been doing representing the United the dance free and other students and stated that ten students have his letter of resignation last Satur­States at the United Nations. The will be charged a dollar. The for the day and said it was the last day of President wants it clearly under­entertainment will be provided by his leave from teaching duties at stood that Ambassador Moynihan Flight, a Chicago-based group, and 
Harvard University. has his complete confidence, ac­
Cokes and potato chips will be free. ''It is time to return to teach­cording to White House Press The party will last from 9p.m. to 
ing," he wrote, "and such are the Secretary Ron Nessen after the 1a.m. and students will be allowed conditions of my tenure that I November meeting. in and out of the dining hall return now or not at all." Shortly before that incident Moy­
throughout the night to attend Ford· s letter formally accepting nihan had been criticized by British 
Mardi Gras in Stephan Center. the resignation was dated Monday. Ambassador lvor Richard, who 
Grace Hall President Dennis Sull­There had been new reports that likened Moynihan to Wyatt Earp ivan said the dance has been Moynihan would resign following a looking for shootouts in the O.K. 
designed to keep students on controversial cablegram he sent to Corral. U.S. officials dismissed as 
campus during the night to give a Secretary of State Henry A. Kiss­wildly inaccurate reports that the 
boost to the Mardi Gras. inger and all U.S. embassies State Department itself had prom­
The quad party is the first such complaining about the lack of pted Richard to make the state­
event the dining hall officials have 
support for his campaign to break ment. allowed in the facility this year, up an anti-American block at the Moynihan is known to have been Sullivan said. He added that the United Nations. acting on instructions when he 
dining hall is an ideal setting for a After the cablegram appeared in excoriated President ldi Amin of 
quad-wide dance because there is the press last week White House Uganda in October and when he enough room to get everyone in Secretary Ron Nessen said: blasted proponets of a resolution 
and still have enough room to "Pat is supported by the Pres­equating Zionism with racism. dance. ident, the secretary of state and the But he acted on. his own in . Since the party is an on-campus top officials of the State Depart-linking the Organization of African 
affair, .the presidents bad to make 


. ·,'
. ..... 

.,·,, '·,' /I,.,,-,·,,·.·.·.. . . •,·. 
···.... 

Tuesday, February 3, 1976 
2 the observer 
-----News Briefs----~ 
I========International Another round of war 
BEIRUT* Lebanon -The leader of Lebanon's main Christian militia said yesterday he is importing new arms because another round of civil war is inevitable unless radical Palestinians and Lebanese are "beaten down." 
"Now and tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, as long as we are obliged to defend ourselves, we will buy arms for ourselves," Phalange party chieftain Pierre Gemayel said in an interview with the Associated Press. 
"We would be imbeciles if we did the opposite." 
Soviets back Popular Movement 
Soviet leader Leonid I. Brezhnev issued yesterday a new expression of Kremlin solidarity with Popular Movement (MPLA) forces in Angola. At the same time, 40 Dutch mercenaries were reported ready to join the two factions fighting the (MPLA), with hundreds more being recruited. 
There were also reports that the MPLA was considering nationalization of the Cabinda oil field if Gulf Oil Co. of the United States does not resume production soon. 


r-==================Nationru Spy protection 
WASHINGTON, D.C. -Stiff penalties are needed to replace the patriotism that used to guarantee U.S. intelligence agents the anonymity they need, according to Rep. John Myers, R-Ind. 
Myers is sponsor of a bill calling for up to 10 years in prison and a $10,000 fine for anyone convicted of "identifying or tending to identify any individual as one who at any time has been or is presently engaged in intelligence operations." 
--On Campus Today---.~ 
9am-5pm 4:15pm 
7pm 
7pm 
7:30pm 

--volunteer programs, peace corps and vista represen­
tatives library lobby.  
--seminar, "the  teaching  of  socio-eth ical  issues  in  
collegiate  schools  of  business",  by  dr.  thomas  f.  

mcmahon, rm 121 hayes-healy. 
--computer course, '<esp--the econometric software package," rm 115 math bldg. --meeting, scholastic writers, bulla shed. --prayer meeting, charismatic, Iafortune rathskeller 
8 & 10pm --movie, "freaks", eng. aud., $1. 
8:30pm --mock political convention, women's political caucus meeting, lib. aud. 


Election Commision speeds division of campaign funds 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Fed­
eral Election Commission agreed 
today to speed its distribution of 
federal money to presidential cand­
idates while Congress decides 
whether to reconstitute, curtail or 
abolish the commission 

While the commission assessed 
its position in the wake of Friday's 
Supreme Court decision on political 
campaign finance laws, congres­
sional leaders said it would be 
difficult to meet a Feb. 29 deadline 
for action. 

If the law is not amended, the 
commission will lose its power to 
certify applications for federal 
matching dollars for candidates in 
presidential primaries. 

No other agency is authorized to 
certify the applications. Thus, can­
didates might find their anticipated 

(*The Observerl 
Night Editor: Bob Brink 
Asst. Night Editor: Maureen 
Flynn 

layout Staff: Bill Rivard, 
Kathy McEntee, Jeff Norkus 
Day Editor: Don Reimer 
Copy Reader: Jack D' Aurora 
Editorials: Ken "Checks" 
Girouard 
Features: Chris Smith 

Sports: Fred Herbst, Bill 
Brink 

Typists: Mel Celeste, Tess 
Clemens, Hank Van Dyke 
Night Controller: Howard 
Halle 

Picture Screener: Mike Kron 
I:Ad layout: Joe Graif, TomJ .\Whalen 
source of funds cut off just as the 
primary election season enters high 
gear. 

Commissioners indicated that if 
necessary they would even meet 
late Sunday, Feb. 29, to make final 
certifications if audits of applica­tions were still continuing. 
The court decision held that the commissioners were unconstitu­tionally appointed and that, if the commission is not reconstituted, most of its powers would end. 
Supporters of the FEC planned to introduce legislation renewing it with full functions, but the chair­man of the congressional commit­
tee which oversees the FEC, wants 
to abolish it and has suggested
amending the law to let the comptroller general disburse fed-era! matching money. 
18-inch accumulation 


Snow emergency continues 
By The Associated Press A snow emergency continued through the night for northwestern Indiana, where a heavy winter storm dumped more than seven inches of snow over the weekend, bringing the ground accumulation to as much as 28 inches in some areas. 
Meanwhile, the National Weat­her Service forecast up to two , inches additional snow for the , southern part of the state, with light snow flurries statewide. 
Varying amounts of ice and snow were reported on roads and high­ways throughout the state, and police attributed three chain reac­tion collisions caused by the wea­ther, one of them involving a fatality. 
The weekend storm paralyzed the South Bend and LaPorte areas, which reported a total 18 and 28 inches respectively, and forced officials to close all schools and roads, except the Indiana Toll Road and Interstate 65. Several roads in Lake, LaPorte, Jasper, Porter, Pulaski and St. Joseph counties were closed by drifting snow but officials said most were expected to be open by midday Tuesday. South Bend and LaPorte police said city streets were passable. 
An area of extremely cold temp­eratures followed in the wake of the 

Darby O'Gill to celebrate sixth birthday with party 
Dr. Darby O'Gill, University 
philosopher-in-residence and rac­onteur-extraordinaire, has issued an invitation to the entire Univer­. sity community to a birthday party 
in his honor. 

The party will be held at Darby's 
Place, the late-night resort of 
campus sophisticates, and will 
ND Law School 
searching for 

four new profs· 

The Notre Dame Law School is 
currently narrowing down the list 
of candidates for four faculty 
positions. 

"It is the greatest faculty search 
the law school has engaged in," 
said Dean David T. Link. "We are 
making an all out attempt to hire 
top notch faculty." The four open­
ings make up one fourth of the 
full-time staff. 

Women are among the candi· 
dates to be submitted to the 
Provost for confirmation, Link said. 
"A great emphasis has been 
placed on attracting qualified wo­
men," Prof. David Campfield ad­
ded. 

Of the 60 candidates interviewed 
at the American Association of Law 
Schools meeting held Dec. 4-6, 15 
applicants have visited the campus. 
The Observer is published fll«lday through Friday and ~kly during the surrrner sessior., except during the exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of llk>tre Dame and St. It/lays College. SUbscriptions may be purdlasect for $18 ($10 per semester) fro-n The Observer, Box Q, llk>tre Darne, Indiana 46556. Seccnd Class postage paid, Notre Darne, IN 46556. 
lOMINUTES OF YOUR TIME COULD SAVE AFRIEND'S LIFE. 
l~oR[fNe~nJWro~W~s~:;~3~o~

Rockville. Maryland 20852 
._,.·'"'!""~•-...
r• , 
~? 
"'"'"' 

r-------------------------,




I WSND 
I 
I

I NEEDS BODIES FOR 
I


I NEWS & SALES 
I 

II TO SIGN UP: 
I COME TO 361 O'SHAG 
II 
II II 
I 


II I 
I TUESDAY AT 7:00P.M. I

L----------...--~-~·~~~-d--: 
commence precisely on the stroke of midnight. A birthday cake and ice cream, as well as liquid refreshment, will be served. 
In a statement issued through his spokesman, Fr. Robert Griffin, University chaplain, O'Gill noted, "I will be reaching the advanced age of six tonight and wish to celebrate the occasion with all my friends." 
O'Gill, founder and proprieter of Darby's Place, also commented on the new manager, Freshman Joe Gill. "The youngster is not doing too bad and I think we'll keep him around for laughs." 
O'Gill recently received an hono­rary doctorate of transcendental obfuscation from the University of Swaziland for his devinitive analy­sis of the Vatican's recent decree on sex in an article entitled "Paul's Problem: A Son of a B----'s Guide to the Vatican's Guide to Sex." 

NOTRE DAME -SAINT MARY'S THEATRE TRYOUTS FOR MY HEART'S IN THE HIGHLANDS 
by William Saroyan 
Tuesday, February 3 at 7:00 p.m. Wednesday, February 4 at 7:00p.m. Callbacks Thursday, February 5 at 7 :00 


INPIRG TOWN MEETING' 
The Indiana PUblic Interest Research Group will be having an organizational meeting to disruss possible research projects for this sermster. We encourage every­one to oorm and let us answer your questions about the projects and about InPIRG. 
FEB.4 9:00P.M. 
LaFORTUNE RATHSKELLER 
41 

, , , I • ~ r 1 ~ ~ , 4 1 -~ • , I I • I • • • ·-· ' _ !....!___:___ 4 __' _ __ _ '.• .·' __,• 
storm, holding highs in the teens statewide Monday and prompting the weather bureau to forecast lows below the 10-degree mark for all areas except extreme southern Indiana, where the thermometer was expected to climb as high as the upper teens. 
The frigid temperatures kept roads and highways covered with ice, with state police reporting all roads snow-covered, slick and haz­ardous in the north; normal to slick in spots, with slick secondary roads, in central Indiana, and normal with some scattered slick spots in the south, where Indiana 39 south of Tampico and Indiana 256 west of Austin were reported closed by high water. 
Temperatures were expected to warm slightly under cloudy skies Tuesday, with highs forecast for the low 20s to mid 30s and a 20 per cent chance of light snow late in the day in extreme northwest Indiana. 
The only weather-related fatality reported so far was in Crown Point, where Sandra L. McCauley, 27, Hammond, was killed Sunday afternoon as she stood outside her car at the scene of a five-car pileup on a city street. State police said the victim was the driver of one of the autos involved in the crash and had stepped outside her vehicle when she was hit by an oncoming car. 
Twelve cars and three trucks were involved in a chain reaction collision on --94 north of Michigan City Sunday. Fifteen people recei­ved minor injuries in the crash. 
Injuries were minor in a 12-car pileup in LaPorte County. Six persons were hurt when three cars crashed into a semitrailer truck eight miles north of Lafayette on I-65. Police said the truck slid on ice and was whipped by high winds across northbound lanes of the interstate. 
Tuesday, February 3, 1976 
the observer 
3 





Outlook dismal for spring concerts 
by Gregg B. Bangs Senior StaH Reporter 

The outlook for concerts at Notre Dame this semester looks dismal according to Gabe Zarnoti, student union concert commissioner. 
''The whole semester has been spent making offers to people and having them rejected for some reason or another," Zarnoti said. Among those contacted and their reasons for rejection were: Carole King, because the building was too big for her; Bachman-Turner Over­drive, because they don't play on college campuses and Cat Stevens, for the same reason. 
In general, the lack of concerts can be directly attributed to the lack of groups on tour. "It's simple to explain," Zarnoti noted. "All the big. monster bands went on tour in the fall. There's no reason for them to tour in the winter and early spring because the market's not as big." 
Peter Kernan, editor and pub· lisher of The River-City Review, concurs with Zarnoti on this point. "The fall is a good time to go on tour, especially on college cam­puses with their big weekends," Kernan explained. ''After the first of the year, touring generally drops off because the financial situation is not as good. Most groups will take a vacation, then get ready to hit the outdoor concerts in the late spring, early summer. There's more money in outdoor concerts," he added. 
However, Kernan did not believe had something to do with it. "Most situation getting better in the early the reason for performers like groups don't like to tour in the spring. "It's usually pretty slow Stevens bypassing the ACC was midwest in the winter because it's around now, hope~lly things will one of not liking to play on college too cold. If they tour at all, it's in be better later on," he said. He campuses. "Stevens is playing in the warmer areas, he said. "Right said the ACC is going to have Uriah places that hold a lot more than the now, a lot of groups are recordinl', Heep in March and Tony Orlando ACC. Most of the arenas he's so they can start touring in the and Dawn in April. playing to hold 17,000 to 18,000. spring or summer," he added. Zarnoti did not foresee landing There's a Jot more money in the big Sassano said that the promotion any "monster" groups this spring, arenas," he said. companies that he deals with had but felt he would try to go after a 
Kernan also noted that concerts been trying to land a concert, but package of several smaller groups are doing a little better in nearby had been unsuccessful. lumped together in one concert. Kalamazoo and Fort Wayne. However, Sassano foresees the This would be similar to the 
"Wings Stadium in Kalamazoo 


lvo H. Thomas, director of Collegiate Seminar and a professor in the General Program of Liberal Studies. died yesterday morning after an illness of several months. He was 64. 
Prof. Thomas had resided at 1356 Merrifield Ave., Niles, Mich. Friends may call at the Halbritter 
. THOMAS 
might attract a performer there more than ND for a few reasons," 

Notre Dame athletic department
he said. "Wings charges a straight top rate general admission ticket compared to Notre Dame's grad­

must eliminate sex discrimination 
uated ticket prices. There's more 
money. Also, Wings is located in 
by Jean O'Meara
an area where several colleges can 
StaH Reporter 
reach it. They sell out practically every concert up there. It's known as a 'safe' market," he added. 

The Notre Dame athletic board
The fact that the ACC is the site 

must comply with the regulations
of basketball, hockey and other 

of Title IX of the Education 
events also makes scheduling pre­

Amendments of 1972 regarding
carious, according to Kernan. 

elimination of sex discrimination byEnglish groups generally stay July 26, 1976. away from touring the United Title IX, states: "No person States in the winter, Kernan men­shall, on the basis of sex, be tioned. "English groups have a excluded from participation in, be strict time limit on their concert denied the benefits of or be subject dates. Say a group has 180 days to to discrimination under any educa­tour. You can bet a big group like tion program or activity receiving the Who is going to spend part of 
financial assistance ... " Such controversy has continuedthat time in the summer when they 
since the amendment's enactment
can play in the big arenas and make 

that President Ford sent a memo­
more money," he explained. 

randum last November to the heads 
Joe Sassano, Assistant Director 

of all schools clarifying the regula­
of the ACC, thought the weather 

tions. Groups are still lobbying to 
have Title IX repealed. Sr. Miriam Jones, assistant to
Collegiate Seminar head the provost, thinks that the clause in the memorandum emphasizing "reasonableness" is the only ra­tional approach to use in evaluating 
dies after lengthy illness 
Notre Dame's compliance. 
The memorandum states, "The 
Funeral Home, 615 E. Main, Niles, 
point of the regulation is not so 
from 2 to 4 p.m. and 7 to 9 p.m. 
inflexible as to require identical 
today. The Funeral Mass will be at 
treatment in each of the matters 
~~~~·······<111·4~···~·4~···~·4•e•o~~~~••~··<IIIIP..~· 




~~t 7 
···~., ~··· 
Invites You To A Party TONIGHT .15 Beers From 7-10 P.M. .50 Mixed Drinks All Night 
Also, Come Early And Watch 
'THEFONZ' In 'Happy Days' And 'Laverne& Shirley' 

Then Dance To All Your R 
·~·~····-~-.....·~-·-~-..·-~-~......~.......~~-· 
Aerosmith, Kansas and Ted Nu­gent concert of late last semester. Sassano said that if a "worthwhile package could be found, he'd be all for it." 
Kernan thought things would look better in South Bend with the reopening of Morris Civic Center to concertst in a few weeks. 
Zarnoti summarized his com­ments on the spring semester by saying "if you're looking for a concert like Elton John, forget it." 
sity sports, however, among the club sports, the distribution is even 
"I would like to see a woman's varsity sport begin next year--per­haps fencing or tennis," Jones said. This would be a normal development in the women's sports program, she feels. 
Astrid Hotvedt, recently appoint­ed coodinator of women's sports at Notre Dame, agreed. "But," she said, "we must be very sure that we are top rate, for having a woman's varsity sport do poorly, where the male sports tradition is so revered, would be a catastro­phe." 
"The safest and best way to varsity sports," said Hotvedt, "is through a compromise proposal." At present the club sports include fencing, tennis, golf, field hockey 
AFTER THE 
SHOW STOP IN 
AND SEE US. 
COUPON 


REST. SPECIAL IN 
!COTTSDAUIW.i FRIDAY'S • 
291-3142 PAPER. 
and basketball. The closest to 
varsity status, according to Hot­
vedt, are fencing and tennis. 
Hotvedt would create a new classi­fication of sports, labelling fencing and tennis "interim sports". After (continued on page 7) 
THE 
RESUME PLACE 
25 RAG BOND 

Only $2.55 

insly·prints, 

203 N. MAIN SO.BEND, IND 
289-6977 
r----------~------L-CMSINGLELENSREFLEX : 
10 a.m. tomorrow in Sacred Heart Church of Notre Dame. Burial will be in Silverbrook Cemetery, Niles. 
Born in London, England, Tho­mas attended Queen's College at I Oxford University, where he recei­ved bachelor and master's degrees in philosophy and the classics, and 
later  was  awarded  S.T.L.  and  
S.T.M. degrees from  the English  
Dominican Studia.  
He  came  to  Notre  Dame  as  a  

visiting professor of philosophy in 1958 and after intermittent teach­ing appointments at the University, joined the General Program faculty in 1964. 
A specialist in mathematical logic, he was the author of several articles published in Notre Journal of Formal Logic, Journal Symbolic Logic, Mind, Blackfriars, Oassical World, Philosophical Quarterly, and other magazines. 
He is survived by his wife, Deirdre . 
listed. During the process of self-evaluation, institutions should examine all of the athletic opportu­nities for men and women and make adeterminationas to whether each has an equal opportunity to compete in athletics in a meaning­ful way." 
Jones thinks that Notre Dame's program should match the degree of interest the students have in a given sport. "There should be no fixed quota,'' she said. 
In a recent survey of 5 major co-ed schools, an average of 2 per cent of the athletic budget was allotted to women's sports. The Chronicle of Higher Education published the study using U.C.L.A 
and the universities of Michigan, Kansas, Oklahoma, and Missouri. 
Jones said that there was really no way of determining the percen­tage allotted at Notre Dame at the present time. Women do not participate in revenue earning var-
t 

: t 1 
" 1 
' 
•, 

l 
CAMERA WITH 50 mm f 2.0  t  
CHINONLENSAND  ~  
CAMERA CASE  t  
LIST PRICE  t  
$239.50  t  
AULTS  
SPECIAL PRICE  tt  
$164.95 CASH Ault Camera Co.  I  

tT.:·~i~~"--s~~s~'!--~~!.!~_t 




r~------------------------~
IVARIETIES OF ITALIAN FOODI I PLUS STEAKS-CHOPS I 
I I I DOROTHY, KITCHEN MANAGER AT THE I
loLD FRANKIES, NOTRE DAME &HOWARD ST ·I 
I 
ALSO PREPARES CHICKEN VESUVIUS EVERY I 
TUESDAY. WE ARE PROUD TO CONTINUE A I 
FINE NOTRE DAME TRADITION AT vALERIE'S. I 
1 BREAKFAST 6am · Mon thru Fri II 7am · Saturday 1 
I LUNCH llam-3pm 1 1
II DINNER 3pm-9pm Mon thru Fri 1 3pm-Spm Saturday1 Closed Sunday· 


I vALERIE'S ~~~. 
I Restaurant .t'!tl­
801 So. Micll~•n. So. lend /'? l -1ll
1 (Next to Gilbert·'!', -289-0681) l:fc-.>U FOOD Li&llttd Frtt Pallin& in Our Lot 2 DNrs h. on llchican 
Just a few blocks south of I River Bend Plaza 
I 
.II 

~-----------------------­

r 
f 
~

. .. . . . . . 
I 0 o o 0 o o 0 0 I o 'o,' o', •, o ~ I I ' ' I • o 
, ·, . I • '.:~. '.''.'" • ·,•, •,•, • ·, • • ••••·•·• ·, '·, 


Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is published by the students of the University EDITORIAL BOARD of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported AI Rutherford Managing Editor as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent Jim Eder Executive Editor
the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­
Pat Hanifin Editorial Editormentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, 
cartoons and regular columns express the views of their Bob Mader News Editor 
authors. Column space is available to all members of the Maureen Rynn Campus Editor 
COmmunity, and leHers are encouraged to promote the free Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor 
expression of varying opinions on campus. Ken Bradford Copy Editor 
Val Zurblis Wire Editor Editorials: 283-1715 News: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Tom O'Neil Features Editor 
Business Manager Tom Modglin Bill Brink Sports Editor 
Advertising Manager Tom Whelan 
Dan Sanchez Senior Night Editor 
~ Tuesday, February 3, 1976 
~ 

commentary 


History lesson 
op1n1on 

The Right 


To Be Left 
kenneth hallett 
Pat Kearns' column of January 30 certainly lived up to its title--"Funny Ideas". The author appears to claim a monopoly of ideals and good sense for the right (direction, not correctness) side of the political spectrum; he appears to limit those on the other side to "total relativism and positivism" and "pseudo-sophistication." 
While I agree that it is ridiculous to write off the conservative viewpoint as a bunch of "funny ideas", it is equally ridiculous to write off the liberal one as "assinine rationalization" for evil. Liberals hold dear the same basic tenets claimed by Mr. Kearns 
exclusively for conservatives. In fact, neither has a monopoly on 
.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii pat ha n ifin 
respect for "authority, morals, tradition, and truth." The House of Representatives' Russians would love to set off with wheres" are Angola and the half­For instance, liberals merely seek to balance the authority due the 
recent vote cutting off aid to the an Angola-based guerrilla move­dozen other African nations the state with the valid rights of individuals (as, I hope, do pro-W estern forces in Angola ment. Russians and Chinese are trying to conservatives). Liberals want this authority used for the advantage marks another step in Congress' But the importance of the current turn into satellites. of all citizens. This authority can't be saved exclusively to serve big double-time march back to the crisis in Angola goes beyond the Congress' reaction to this expan­business, by Lockheed bail-outs or pro-business 'regulation', or to isolationism of the 1930's. Cong-situation in Africa. The U.S. is now sion is to cut the defense budget burden the individual, with undue surveillance and the like. ress no longer heeds John F. engaged in the risky but essential and make pretty speeches about Kennedy's declaration that "we business of trying to negotiate a how everyone should stay home. Regarding morals, liberals, too, "insist on the necessity of shall pay any price, bear any reduction of tensions with the No doubt the Russians are amused. 
seeking moral virtue.'' While the government cannot force burden, meet any hardship, sup-Soviets. The detente negotiations The current isolationism is, of individuals to be virtuous, it can help to create a climate in societyport any friend, oppose any foe to depend on both sides being con­course, due to the country's catas­conducive to individual virtue. Liberals seek constructive means of assure the survival and success of vinced that they have more to gain trophic experience in Vietnam. 
providing this atmosphere. Instead of constantly objecting toliberty.'' Instead it marches to the from negotiating for what they The senators and congressmen who increased aid to the needy, a liberal is willing if necessary, to usecall for retreat in the quaint and want rather than simply seizing it. voted to cut off aid to the pro-Wes­social spending in an attempt to alleviate the conditions which breed touching hope that if America only Why should the Russians make any tern groups in Angola think they crime, or which drive poor parents to the degrading acts ofhides its head deep enough the agreements to reduce international have learned their lesson from contraception and abortion. Liberals favor revisions of the taxworld's problems will go away. tensions when they can profit Vietnam. 
structure so that workers (farmers, blue and white-collar), who doAngola is a remote country and immensely from tensions America They have learned the wrong lesson. America lost the war in good, productive noble work for society aren't taxed at a higher rate until recently it was an obscure pretends do not exist? 
than those who live in leisure, making hoards of money through
one. But in international politics This connection between what Vietnam not because we tried to and strategies the truism that it's a happens in one country and what stop Comunist expansion or be­investments of the fortunes made by their great-grandfathers. small, interdependent world is only happens in another was at the heart cause Communist guerrillas are 
It holds the same with the other two tenets. Liberals also look totoo true. Angola lies on the oil of the "domino theory" scorned by unbeatable but because we put too many limits on the use of our power tradition, to America's past, to see its strengths and weaknesses, in
canker route between the Middle opponents of the Vietnam war. The East and the U.S. and Eurooe. domino analogy, like all analogies, and escalated so slowly that the their search for appropriate answers to our country's needs. In 
An Angolan base would give the simplifies things, but it looks like enemy had time to build up its own regards to truth, does Mr. Kearns mean to say that liberalism is a Soviet fleet the ability to cut that the theory is right. When Vietnam forces with Russian and Chinese conspiracy in search of falsehood? life line in the middle. fell so did Cambodia and Laos. The 
aid. Obviously if you insist on 
The West's industrial economy is Communist guerrilla movement in fighting with both hands tied It is not at all correct that all conservatives are as upright as Mr. increasingly dependent on imports Thailand is reviving with support behind your back you will lose. Kearns would have us believe. The current attitudes towards for many other materials as well as from China and North Vietnam and That doesn't mean you should stay abortion are largely the product of a conservative Supreme Court. oil and many of those materials are so is the long-dormant Malayan out of all fights, it means that (On the other hand, Sargent Shriver--a liberal by anyone's found in Angola and neighboring guerrilla forces. There are rumb­when you have to fight you have to standards--condemns abortion as murder.) Conservatives, who countries of southern and central lings in Korea and several South­fight to win. decry any attempt by the government to aid needy families, also can Africa. A partial list of the mineral east Asian nations are edging And we will have to fight. It's a be found seeking "welfare for the rich" in the form of defense 
rough world. It won't go away
wealth includes: copper, sulphur, toward China and North Vietnam in contracts, bail-outs, tax shelters, import restrictions, and tariffs. 
phosphates, diamonds (industrial a (futile) hope that they will not be when we close our eyes. America What was that about individualism and laissez-faire? 
and gem), gold, silver, tin, iron, attacked. The domino theory tried to close its eyes after World tungsten, uranium, radium. predicted that success in Vietnam War I; Europe tried in the thirties. 
Angola also borders South would lead to Communist adven­There was no peace in their time. Mr. Kearns has made unfair conclusions and insinuations. He Africa, a racial powder-keg the turing elsewhere. The first "else-I fear there will be none in ours. has unjustly attacked a valid political viewpoint. One may approach politics from the right or from the left; both may be valid. One may 
SeriOUSly folks ~~~~~~~~~~!!!!!! approach morals from two directions: one is also right--but the other is wrong. Mr. Kearns seems to have confused the moral right with the political right. I will defend his right to be Right; I will also expect him to defend my right to be Left, is I so choose.

$394 Billion Question 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiia r t bu c hw a I d DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
WASHINGTON--It's possible "I didn't mean you personally. I "Well, it doesn't come out to $28 that one or two persons in this meant you as a taxpayer. If billion, because at the same time 
WHY NOT?. I M&AN, TO MOV& IN WITH FOR6flIT, 
S&&, IF YOfJ WAS 

YOU f{)fj(5 BOTH aYP~ r
country are confused about Presi­everyone pays his taxes and no one you get a tax cut you will also get a 
IJ/6 ON fiACHO!Htf<, [)()N'T WANT
ANPY, THEN Z'IJ ClYPe! I'M
dent Ford's budget for 1977 so I raise in Social Security which will
cheats, we will have $394 billion,
will be happy to take questions. be deducted from your paycheck." 
minus, of course, the $43 billion "How much is $394 billion?" "I knew the President wouldn't
which we'll have to borrow from "I'm sorry, I didn't understand the American people." give me $28 billion. He was just the question." playing with me 'because it was an
"I can't lend the government $43 
"President Ford said the federal election year."'
billion. I would if I knew what it 
budget for next year would be $394 "That's not true. Someday when 
looked like." billion. How much is that in "The government doesn't expect you're old and gray you'Il be glad money?" the President took more money out
you to lend it $43 billion. Just lend ''I don't think you should think in it anything you can afford." of your paycheck." 
terms of money. You should think "After I pay my taxes, I won't "Ronald Reagan said he'd give 
of it in terms of services that your me $90 billion."
have any money to loan the 
country will provide you in the "He did not. He said he would
government.''

future: better housing, health pro­let you keep $90 billion that you
"That's not true. The President 
tection, employment opportunities, has advocated a $10 billion tax cut now give the federal government 


a stronger defense and a chance for for welfare programs that don't
in addition to the one he has 
toOK, I'll 6/Vf3
at'AY, liMY, TAK&

your children to have a better life work. He feels you can spend it
already given you, which comes to 
IT EASY-I R£A-GfXJ/?. NOW 
YOl/ MY NVMB&~-­
than you did. I would also like to better than the bureaucrats in
$28 billion. You can use some of 
point out to you that this budget 
that money to buy bonds which is a Washington." 
provides for only a $43 billion "Has Ronald Reagan ever seen
way of loaning the governmentdeficit." money.'' $90 billion ? " "How much is $43 billion in "I doubt it."
"How much is $28 billion?" 
money?" "I have no idea. I've never seen "Then how does he expect me to "I don't know how much it is in $28 billion. No one has ever seen deal with it? I've got a very small money, but it is $33 billion less house. I wouldn't know where to
$28 billion." than the deficit for 1976 which "Well, if no one has seen it how put it." fiscally, as you know was a bad do we know it's there?" "It's obvious that you can't think year." "Because each family will share in grand concepts about money." 
"Where is President Ford going in the tax cut and you'll see your "That's what my wife says. She to get the $394 billion?" part of it." says if I saw a billion dollars in the "He hopes to get it from you." ''Okay, so I get my share of the street I probably wouldn't even "I don't have $39'4 billion.,., · 
$28 billion. What do I do next?" . .IJ~v,e, t)t$! ,s,ep~t; tq pic!c.i! PP·" 
,·, .·.,,!·,.,·,·,·,'.'. 0 

-~ 
Tuesday, February 3, 1976 
the observer 
Soph Lit Tid-bitTeasers 
Match the following descriptions with the names at left to find out some inter­esting facts about the authors who will be appearing at the Sophomore literary Festival, February 15-21. 
1. This author wrote a novel which

Jorge Luis Borges 
became a bestseller ten years after its original publication
John Gardner 
2. This author once worked as a field­
Robt. Penn Warren 
worker for CORE.

Louis Simpson 
3. This author once had a revelation that
May Sarton "alienation was a state approaching sanity" and that "feeling human was a useful form of political subversion.''

Robert Hass 
·ssPH lJ<Jqo~n: 'laUU!)I APMIP~)"Z 'JaupJP~ u4or·l :SJiM\SUV

Galway Kinnell 



The B.S. Factor 
In an insightful article, "On a Clear Day compensation for the murder of their You Can See the Fog," written for the forebears. newspaper Newsday, Arthur Herzog refers A bill introduced by Sen. James G.

Fr. Edward Sorin 
to a contemporary American problem of Abourezk (D-S.D.) would provide $600,000 deviousness. He calls it the Fake Factor for the descendants of the Sioux who died or, for those who demand still more at Wounded Knee on December 29, 1890. trenchant terminology, the B.S. Factor. Abourezk denounced the Army study as

Comes to America 
Herzog explains it as the factor respon­"outrageous" and declared: "It's amaz­sible for the difference between word and ing to me that they would start in with adirection of Father Moreau and in this reality. It has brought about the lie that is cover-up 85 years after the event. They say 
********** 
country under Father Sorin, it was never 

not a lie and the truth that is not truth. The it's not a massacre. I don't know what
The Bicentennial** 
united with the Congregation of the Holy result is so much cant and obfuscation as to you'd call it unless you want to redefine the Cross. Yet the Sisters are engaged in the
********** 
cause a fog to settle upon our mental English language." 
same work--teaching the young and caring landscape and all but obliterate its real Realizing how hurt and embarrassed
********** 
for the sick. 

As stated previously, Bishop Brute, features." Herzog explains that the great decent-minded Army personnel must be and later Bishop Hailandiere appealed to need for the Fake Factor follows from its after this fiasco, I called a friend who is a 
* * and Notre Dame 
********** 
the French orders for members to work in ability to work as a cover-up, hiding real professor of military science in our ROTC
********** 
the Vincennes diocese in Indiana. Many in ambitions and actual purposes behind a program for his comments. He said: "To the Congregation volunteered. Finally six screen of fractured words and splintered say 'I'm embarrassed would be putting it EDITOR'S NOTE: This article is part of a 
Brothers were cho~en--Brothers Vincent, meanings. mildly. I'm downright ashamed to be a series of articles, In honor of the bicenten­Anselm, and Gatian for teaching and three It's Humpty Dumpty all over again! member of an organization that would be nial, which depict the growth of Notre others for manual work--Brothers Joachim, "When I use a word," Humpty Dumpty so out of touch with reality, so insensitive Dame In the American nation. Francis Xavier, and Lawrence. Young 
said in a rather scornful tone, "it means to a wounded people. This is a black pageFather Sorin would lead the group. After just what I choose it to mean--neither more in Army history. This has only reaffirmed 
Edward Frederick Sorin was born on the many postponements, mostly due to lack of nor less." "The question is," said Alice, my own decision to sever my connection 6th day of February, 1814. He was the finances, the small group left the Mother "whether you can make words mean so with the Army--1 can no longer be a seventh of nine children born to a farmer, House at LeMans on Aug. 5, 1841 and 3 many different things." "The question member of such an organization."
Julian Sorin de Ia Gauulterie and his wife, days later from the port of Havre. Father is," said Humpty Dumpty, "which is to be His sobering words made me reflect on Marie Anne Louise Gresland de Ia Marga­Moreau lamented the departure of Sorin, 
master. That is all." my own life and that of the church. Howlerie. As a child, Edward was polite, frank, "More than ever, I feel the loss I have 
We've seen a good bit of this procedure often we have been guilty of various forms dignified, and an outstanding pupil. He suffered in giving you to America .. .It 
at work in America these past few years. of fakery and hypocrisy; how frequently wealso had a natural spunkiness that made seems to me that of all the members of our In the case of the Vietnam war, for play Humpty Dumpty with words.
him a leader in play and study. Once when family of Holy Cross, you are the one for example, our leaders could never get far Christians do not close the gap betweenone of his teachers punished him, Sorin whom I have the most esteem, to whom I beyond the vague notion of "national word and deed with terribly impressive
was so obsessed with what he thought was have given the utmost confidence and the the injustice of the punishment that he , most affection, and I will suffer until my interest" as a justification for our involve­consistency. The current issue of RoBing Stone
refused to continue under the direction of death by this separation." ment, almost as though they were afraid, 
that teacher( Their ship,The Iowa, sailed into New or unable, to say what the actual motiva­contains a feature article on Pat Boone, 
At the age of twelve, he be­York harbor on September 13, thirty-nine tion was. In the same way, "national with the subtitle: "God is everywhere, but gan to study Latin. The knowledge of this days late. They were met in New York by security" was invoked as a rationale for especially at Pat Boone's house, where a language enabled him to understand better Samuel Byerley, a friend of the Bishop of Watergate, as if the scandal did not miracle a day keeps the devil (and the liturgy of the Church. He enjoyed Vincennes, Bishop de Ia Hailandiere. By­essentially reveal a spirit of political bankruptcy) away." Generally, it is more imitating the priest at the altar. Among his erly was to play an important part in the ·competition, a desire to win that was so gentle with Boone and favorable in its friends, young Sorin would contrive some early foundation of Notre Dame. Mr. strong and narrow as to eliminate any force treatment that I had expected. But there 
childlike vestments, make an altar and go Byerley brought the little band to the that stood in the way. are some devastating revelations. One in through the priestly motions, thereby Bishop of New York, Bishop John DuBois, 
particular. The interviewer says: "Pat, surprising his youthful congregation) with whom they spent an entire day. "Behind the fakery that hangs over the you once said, 'The only thing I dislike is a 
Edward continued his studies until he On Sept. 16, they left New York on a 
United States," Herzog writes, "may be certain character trait, hypocrisy. I dislike finally made up his mind to become a steamboat. They travelled up the Hudson an attempt to conceal, from others and anyone who tries to pretend to be priest. He entered the Little Seminary at River to the Erie Canal, and then westward ourselves, the fragmentation and disorga­something he's not.' You claim to be aPrecigne and then the Major Seminary in to Buffalo. Father Sorin and Brother nization of our political institutions, the Christian, yet you have a bunch of cars,LeMans. He was ordained a priest on May Vincent made a detour to seeNiagaraFalls. 
opportunism of our leaders, the imperfec­including a Rolls Royce, this great big
27, 1838. After that, they took another steamboat tions of our lives. Our society would better house here in Beverly Hills, which must be
While a student at the Seminary at ride across Lake Erie to Toledo. The spend its energies making itself more worth a bundle, and you wear fancy clothes LeMans, Father Sorin became acquainted passage on Lake Erie was extremely rough, coherent and less subject to the contradic­from Paris. How does this all square withwith the Abbe Moreau. This distinguished much more so than anything they had tions from which the Fake Factor rises. being a Christian?"
preacher had formed a society of priests to experienced on the Atlantic. Twice the The question is how to stop faking long And there we have it. The same test foraid him in preaching retreats to the people. ship was forced to seek land. The group enough to find out what the contradictions authenticity we all must withstand--the
At the request of a fellow priest, the aging was greatly overjoyed on arriving at Father Dujarier (who had formed a band of Toledo. They took another boat to Miami, are." politician, administrator, student, profes­young men who engaged in teaching, and then another to Napoleon. After A recent, and most painfully ludicrous, sor, priest. Acknowledging our common under the name of The Brothers of St. Napoleon, they hired 2 horses and carts. example of Fake Factor took place when failures might be a healthy way to start. It Joseph), the young and zealous Abbe After being robbed the tired group passed the U.S. Army officially declared that the might bestir us to keep our national and Moreau also took _charge of this group. In through Defiance and changed back to killing of 146 Indians at Wounded Knee 85 local agencies and officials more honest; 
time the two communities were united water 'conveyance to Fort Wayne, Logans­years ago wasn't a massacre after all. It but first of all, I suspect, it will prompt us under the title the Congregation of the port, and Vincennes. Finally, on Sunday was from this time on, the Army says, to be to attempt to clean up our own act first. Holy Cross, retaining the original features morning, Oct 10, 1841, they beheld the referred to as an "episode." Initially, we will look to ourselves, and 
of both Communities, as preachers of the Cathedral tower at Vincennes. Bishop de 
The Army's straight-faced revisionist struggle to achieve a greater consistency
gospel and teachers of youth. Father Sorin Ia Hailandiere and Father Sorin said a history of Wounded Knee is contained in a between words and deeds; between the became one of the first members of the Mass of Thanksgiving. Father Sorin and 23-page report presented to the Senate noise of what we're saying and the noise of new congregation. A little later, Father his group had arrived! Bob Grant Judiciary Committee to rebut claims by the way we're living. F B'll T hMoreau organized the Sisters of the Holy 
Oglala Sioux descendants that they are due r. 1 oo eyCross. Although this society was under the Ned: Onward to South Bend. 



~.-~----­
·... ' ' ' ' ' ' \ ,. •' ..:· .. ' -.· .. ~· ' \ ' . " \ \ 


Holy Cross Fathers increase number of financial grants 
The Justice and Peace Commis­sion of the Holy Cross Fathers has made 4 more major financial grants, two to schools, one to a White County, Indiana youth pro­gram, and one to a South Bend parish, according to Fr. Francis J. Quinlivan, commission director. Thirteen other grants had been previously announced. 
The Justice and Peace Commis­sion was established in 1973 to enable the Holy Cross Fathers to contribute, individually and as a community, a fund to be shared with the poor and underprivileged. 
St. Patrick's parish, South-Bend, has received a grant of $1,540.00 to study the feasibility of reopening the parish school as a central city school. "The grant will finance the necessary investigation and doc­umentation on which to base a decision," said Fr. Quinlivan. ''Other parish schools have closed in the area," he added, "and perhaps the study will discover a way in which a centrally located school can be of service to all of South Bend as well as to that particular section of the city.'' 
Notre Dame has received $6,000.00 in a second year of funding for its "Year-Off Pro­gram." This program places Notre Dame students for one year with Holy Cross priests and brothers working in parishes, schools and social agencies in Peru and Chile. ''Besides adding a new dimension to their own education," said Quinlivan, "upon their return, the students bring to the campus a firsthand knowledge of the needs and aspirations of the people in Latin America.'' 
A third grant for $7,500.00 has been made to Notre Dame High School, Niles, Ill., to set up and operate a community service com­ponent in the school. Students will be placed in agencies to do community service work and will be given supervision by the agencies. Participation in such a program is special relationship with the juv­enile court system and with youths in trouble with the law, whether for truancy or running away from home or for more serious offenses. The Bureau tries to deal with youths in trouble in a positive way, employing a wide range of support­ive services. 
Quinlivan feels that the juvenile delinquency aspect of the project is especially interesting because White County is a fairly rural, small-town area. "Usually we as­sociate this problem with big cities," he said, "but Fr. Fossel­man tells us that it is very much in evidence in rural America also, at least in the area he and his co-workers are serving." 
.-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~­
fRMANDO IS NOW LOCATED NEAR CAMPUSf ffO GIVE YOU THE CUT OR STYLE YOU WANtl 
t cl/unando'j_ .8a7.bn & cJ-/-ai't ~t:;{e ~J;op. f t t
0PEN SIX DAYS A WEEK
t 

MONDAY THRU FRIDAY 8 TO 5,30 . 5ATURDAY 8 TO 4 ' 

t PERSONALIZED SERVICE 1 
l ARMANDO FEMIA 1437 N. IRONWOOD DR .• ,.PHONE 277-0615 SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 
t FOR APPT. f 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 


I~-------------------------,


: 78: 
I

I : : presents 1 
I ''FREAKS'' I
I I
TUESDAy & WEDNESDAy 1 FEB. 3 and 4 I 
I ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM I I ADMISSION $1.00 I 
.I ------COUPON -----­



L-------------------------~
: iJJ~r Qtolonial : 
• lll: 

I I
: Jancakt ~nust :1 $1.00 off 

Women athletes disagree over Olympics' mandatory sex test 
that, as Swiss, they could accept it. 
"After all, I think the problem is not with the Winter Games but with the Summer Games," Ms. 
Itschner said. 
Dr. Dan Hanley, head of the U.S. Olympic team medical force and a member of the IOC panel, said he couldn't have said it better. 
"It's a matter of philosophy," he said, explaining why men were not similarly checked. "Men are more muscular and stronger. A man with feminine tendencies would not have an advantage. A woman with male tendencies definitely would." 
FRIENDS DON'TLET FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK. 
For free information, write to: DRUNK DRIVER, Box 2345 Rockville. Maryland 20852 

INNSBRUCK, Austria (AP)"I resent it-it is a challenge to our identity," said the woman luge racer whose Olympic jacket bore the red Maple Leaf of Canada. "If the women must take sex tests, why not the men? I've seen some male figure skaters that I think might well be included--but, for heaven's sake, don't use my name." The mushrooming women's lib movement in America has swept across the Atlantic Ocean and taken a firm seat at these XII Winter Olympics. Some of the women competitors are outraged that they should be subjected to what they call such a demeaning procedure. Others are amused while some, mainly the Soviets, accept it with a shrug. "It is the rule and we abide by Senior Class to inaugurate last 1 00 days 

Parties, people and good times will mark the Senior Class celebra­tion this weekend of the beginning of the last hundred days until graduation, Augie Grace, senior class president, announced yester­day. 
The last-hundred-days celebra­tion will begin Thursday night with old ID night at the Senior Bar-Al­umni Club. Each senior presenting an old Notre Dame or St. Mary's ID card will be allowed to purchase a beer for ten cents. 
Friday afternoon will feature a happy hour at Kubiak's, "by the class that made it famous," Grace said. The happy hour will be from 3 to 6 p.m. and pitchers will cost $1.50. 
On Saturday night, seniors will celebrate "Greaser Night," at the Alumni Club. Special prices will be 
30-cent beers and 40-cent mixed drinks and plenty of jitter-bugging Beach Boys music will be played. "Who knows, maybe the Fonz will show up, Grace said. 
The 100-days events are being planned through the cooperation of the senior class officers of Notre Dame and St. Mary's and the management of the Alumni Club. 
the rules." said Tamara Moskvina, 
a former USSR figure skating star 
who is now a coach. 
Of the 1,039 athletes who begin 
competition Wednesday, 248 are 
women. Before they are allowed to 
compete, each woman must under­
go a sex test. A smear is taken 
from inside the jaw and if labora­
tory tests of the smear show a 
preponderance of male hormones, 
the competitor is declared ineligi­
ble for women's competition. 
"I think it's hysterical," said 
Anne Henning of Northbrook, Ill., . a gold medalist in speed skating four years ago at Saporo and now a television commentator. "They even gave me a certificate showing I am a woman. I have it hanging up 
in my bedroom.'' 
Dorothy Hamill of Riverside, 
Conn., America's chief hope for the 
women's figure skating title, faced 
up to the matter at a formal news 
conference. "It doesn't bother 
me," she said. 
Karen Kunzle, a Swiss figure 
skater, and the team leader, Jac­
queline Alice Itschner, said they 
could understand some resentment 
in America, where the women's lib 
movement is strong. hut added 


CHIMES 
NOW ACCEPTING Fiction, Non-Fiction, Poetry, Photography and Art for Spring Publication. 
DEADLINE is March 7th SUBMIT TO: Chimes c/o Max Westler 311 Madaleva SMC. All Work Will Be Returned. 
------COUPON -----­

$.50 off 
seen as an important part of the • el school's overall education pro­• FEATURING... •I any anygram. 
The fourth grant of $5,625.00 is : LARGE, OVEN-BAKED : i 14 inch Pizza 10 inch Pizza 
to Fr. David H. Fosselman, director of the Youth Services Bureau of : APPLE PANCAKES :1 1 
e e I I
White Co., Indiana. which is headquartered in Monticello. • -A REAL TREAT-•I limit 1 coupon per pizza limit 1 coupon per pizza I 
According to Quinlivan, the Bur­: WITH QUALITY I : I I eau deals with a wide range of 
• US 31 (Dixieway North) • I 713 E. Jefferson 713 E. Jefferson I
?rograms for youth: job placement, e ' ' . · e I I tutoring, counselling, sports and 
e (ACROSS fROM HOLIDAY INN)· •J Expires Feb. 8 Expires Feb. 8 I
....................................w •. ~~;.;.;,.;.;.. ______________J ___________________.J
other activities. The Bureau has a 
Tuesday, February 3, 1976 the observer 
~~------------~~~~~~~~~~----~

Represents 10 cities 
Indiana Citizens Council on Alcoholism formed 

Alarmed by the growing prob­authorities would not only declare •'These are only the economic ion and prevention programs, and of ICCA. lems of alcoholism in the state, an epidemic but would initiate and social costs," Mrs. McCaffrey third, to be a collective citizens' In speaking of the new coul;"<:il's citizens representing ten Indiana massive programs to deal with the added. "none of them even touches voice in demanding effective action plans, Gelzleichter said, "It is the cities announced today the format­emergency.'' on the 'incredible !Personal tragedy from state legislators and govern­intention of ICCA to expand to ion of the Indiana Citizens Council "The real tragedy," he contin­for the victim of alcoholism and his ment officials responsible for this include existing citizens' groups in on Alcoholism (ICCA), according to ued, "is that something can be or her family." health service. other cities. Concerned persons in its newly elected president, Rich­done about it--and we're not doing The purpose of the newly formed The citizens groups represented areas where there are no such ard Gelzleichter. enough. There are proven prog­council, according to Gelzleichter, in the new council are from groups are encouraged to contact 
Gelzleichter cited the urgent rams in this field which we should is three-fold: first, to bring about a Bloomington, Crawfordsville, Elk· our office for information." Such need for quality treatment, educat­have in Indiana." more realistic awareness of the hart, Evansville, Fort Wayne, Ind ;nfocmation may be obtained from ion and prevention programs as the nature and extent of the problem in ianapolis, Kokomo, Lafayette, New Indiana Citizens Council on Alco­
Mrs. Patricia McCaffrey of South 
reason for the formation of the Indiana; second, to stimulate grea­Albany and South Bend. holism, Odd Fellows Building,
Bend, treasurer of ICCA, and a
council. "Even though there are an ter citizen participation in securing Mrs. Susan Till of the Allen South Bend, Ind. 46001. Tele­
board member of the National
estimated 200,000 alcoholics in more effective treatment, educat-County Alcohol Council is secretary phone: 234-6024.
Council on Alcoholism and theIndiana, affecting at least half a Alcoholism Council of St. Josephmillion other persons--spouses, County, pointed out that Indiana ischildren, employers, and so on--the already spending large amounts of state spends only .09 cents per 


FEC ruled unconstitutional 
money on alcoholism. "The troublecapita of its funds for alcoholism is it is mostly negative spending,"programs,'' said Gelzleichter. 
she explained.

"This puts us near the bottom of WASHINGTON (AP) -While Con-over regulations and investiga­weekly in an effort to speed gressional leaders spoke pessimis-tions. disbursement before the Feb. 29
the list of states in such spending, "Alcoholism is costing industry tically about how fast a new He said Monday the law could be deadline.
far behind the expenditure of such millions of dollars," McCaffrey campaign finance law can be amended to have the Comptroller Much of the FEC's certificationneighboring states as Michigan, said. "Besides, the loss of life, the enacted, presidential primary can-General pass out the presidential time the past two weeks has beenwhich spends $1.35, Illinois 70 economic costs resulting from alco­dictates faced the prospect that campaign matching funds. devoted to a $2.2 million applica­cents, Iowa 80 cents and Wiscon­hol related traffic deaths, other their federal funds spigot wiii be Asked if he still intends to tion from Gov. George C. Wall ace, 
sin $4.00," he said. violent deaths, and crimes, are turned off March 1. abolish the commission, he said: D-Aia. Potter said another Wallace"Alcoholism is the most untreat­immeasurable; our court costs for The Federal Election Commis-''The court abolished it. It dis­application of at least $1 million is ed treatable illness," Gelzleichter alcohol-related cases are astronom­sion agreed Monday to distribute embowelled it. I'm not a surgeon-I expected within a week. So far the stressed. "It is terminal and if not ical; the loss of tax revenue from matching campaign funds to cand-can't put the bowels together commission has approved $4.9 
treated robs a person of from 10 to the unproductive, unrehabilitated 
didates as quickly as applications again." million for the primary candidates. 12 years of his or her life. Can you victim of alcoholism is substantial; can be checked this month. On Capitol Hill, prospects in the imagine what would happen if welfare costs due to alcohol-caused But if Congress has not complied Senate appeared reasonably good 
ND and Title IX:
there were 200,000 cases of sleep­unemployment, family desertions, with a Supreme Court invitation to for the commission, but the prog­ing sickness in Indiana? Our health child abuse and so on are rising." rewrite the law by Feb. 29,. there nosis was poor in the House. 

women's sports
will apparently be no agency Speaker Carl Albert told report-qualified to pass out the money. ers he doubts the commission will (continued from page 3) 

Kissinger warns America 
The court ruled Friday the be re-established as presidential a three year probationary periodcommission, overseer of federal appointees. Albert said, "I don't these interim sports would qualifyelection laws, was appointed un-think we will go for anything that for varsity status.

to unify its foreign policy 
constitutionally. It permitted the would let the President do it when Hotvedt thinks the "equal oppor­
LOS ANGELES (AP) -America opportunities cannot be realized FEC to continue functioning for 30 the whole trouble started with a tunity regulations set up by Title IX had better unify behind its foreign without it. Whatever progress we days to allow Congress to act, but President -not this President." will help Notre Dame focus on policy, Secretary of State Henry have made so far has just been the ruled that if nothing is done by The "whole trouble" was the necessary improvements.Kissinger warned last night, or it first mile on a very long road." then, the commission's powers Watergate affair, which spurred The biggest inadequacies which faces "enormous potentialities for Kissinger said Angola was an would be greatly curtailed. creation of the commission in 1974. should be corrected by Title IX are chaos." example of a missed opportunity. Rep. Wayne Hays, D-Ohio, The court upheld legal limits on in monetary allowances, according 
Kissinger told a panel discussion "It would have been easy for us chairman of the committee which contributions and use of federal to Hotvedt. Travel and per diem here that his goal is a "world in to do what was needed in Angola," oversees the commission, has said money for presidential campaigns, allowances are "in no way ade­which most nations feel a sense of he said, "but it will now cost us he wants to abolish the commis-but ruled out limits for campaigns quate," she said. In addition, participation and most people feel infinitely more somewhere else." sion, with whom he's been feuding not using federal dollars. there is no paid coaching for more secure than they have in the Rep. Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., 
women's sports; it is all volunteer. past." D-Mass., the House majority lead-"Moose Krause, athletic direc­
IU hl•story professor to gl·ve
Asked by a member of the panel er, said "There will certainly be an tor, and Dominick Napolitano, non­
to view the global situation as a effort to do something,'' but added 
varsity sports director, have been professor, Kissinger took a decid-"it will be difficult to get major of great assistance in ironing out so

'Amer,·can Scene' lecture 
edly pessimistic turn: legislation through Congress with-many of our original problems,""We have enormous potentiali-in the 30 days." Legislators in both 
said Hotvedt.
ties for chaos with the growth of the "The Influence of European has lectured at more than 100 chambers prepared to introduce 
Hotvedt would like to see newemerging nations, who are full of Thinking on the American Revolu-American colleges and universities bills that would preserve the com­funds for women's athletic pro­resentments, the resort to econom-tion" will be the topic of the next and in 16 countries in Europe and mision. 
grams. She would also like to seeic warfare, the prolifertion of American Scene lecture sponsored Asia. He is past president of the The 12 presidential candidates so women represented on the athleticnuclear weapons, the expansion of by Saint Mary's College. Dr. American Catholic Historical Asso-· far qualified for federal matching board.
Soviet military strength -all of this Robert Byrnes, distinguished prof-dation and, in 1961, was the money could only wait to see if has great danger... essor of history at Indiana Universi-recipient of an honorary Doctor of their primary election budgets 
Kissinger said the United States ty and director of the university's Letters degree awarded by Saint would be riddled by a cutoff of still has opportunities to control Russian and East European Insti-Mary's College. federal money. They have been and shape the world's future, as it tute, will speak at 7 = 30 p.m., Feb. able to submit applications every always has, although the country 4• in Carroll Hall, located in the The American Scene lecture two weeks for federal dollars to 
Madeleva Memorl.al But'ldt'ng series is J'ointly sponsored by the
"is no longer predominant" in the · match private contributions of up to 
world. A graduate of Amherst College Saint Mary's College departments $250 per donor. It has been taking "My biggest worry now is what and Harvard University, Dr. of education, English, speech and about two weeks to handle applica-
Byrnes has traveled extensl.vely drama, humanistic studies, and
is going on in the United States tions. 
Wl.tht'n the Sovt'ety Unt'on and performing arts, and the Bicenten­
domestically," he said. Commission executive director "There must be some degree of throughout Eastern Europe. He nial Festival Planning Committee. Orlando Potter said the applica­
n~a-ti.on_a_I_u_n_it_y_.__T_h_e_se__I_on_g_-_te_r_m-------------<=:I£J~~j~j~cf ~£1~--------------ti-on_s__wou_I_d__n_o_w__b_e ac_c_e_pt~ed 
NOTICES  ~I  PEACE CORPS-VISTA re<ruiters today  
Ride needed to F\'!oria or Quincy, Ill. area  SKIS;19S an Hart Free Styles; like new,  through Thursday  In  the  Ubrary Main  
Will pay big rmney for Marquette tickets.  Feb. 5 or 6.  Call Karen 6752.  used twice.  Leave name with Chris Smith  Concourse.  
Call Mike at 8720.  at ObServer if interested.  MPO,  
ACOJrate,  fast  typing.  Mrs.  [))noho,  Desperately need Marquette tickets. Sheila, 8135.  Call  i.DST AND FOUND  Thanks for the ll'oll!ekend. Hope you get some "rest with eyes dosed." And no  
232-0746. Monissey LDan $20-$150 one day wait, 1  Need 2 Marquette student fix. 1715.  AI 3388,  Lost: last ll'oll!ek, dark grey stocking cap.  matter IM'Iat you walking! K.C.  say,  next  time  I'm  
percmt Interest, LaFortune, M-F, 11:15­ Reward, call 284-4342.  Mod< Stock Marla!t-Feb. 2 thru Feb. 27.  
12:15. Need a tune-up? You biiY the parts, I will  I need GA and student tickets for Marquette. Gille me a break. Please call Pat 1654.  Lost: PUrple Midi Coat. Gras A'iday. Reward,  Lost at Mardi no questions  Old Business Bldg., 10 A.M.-3 P.M. Mon thru Fli. Win $100, $50, $25. Sponsored by N.D. Rnance Club.  
Install plugs, points, oondenser and set  asked.  Call Marianne 8060.  
timing for $8. Call Bob 8610. IBM Selectric II typing, manuscripts,  Volunteers for the Milton Shapp for R"esldent Comm If interested call Tom at 288-0088.  FOR RENT  Lonely In Angers. SUNDEF Is no FUN­DEF. Craving mail mmpanionshlp. Jennifer Collins, Giselle Urruti, SUNDEF  
dissertations, exper-Ienced. 289-5193. Will do typing, experienced. Term papers  Parents need 2 GA Marquette tickets. call 3654.  Available for Sept. 1\W to seven bedroom houses. Completelyfumished. call Mrs. Humburger 234-9364.  B. P. 858, 49005 Angers Cedex, A'ance. Pat,  
mllnUSO'ipts, etc. Call 233-8512. Old books and prints. Hours: Wednesday  Need riders FROM Milwaukee, will leave Sunday at 4 P.M .. Call AI, 1715, 3388.  PERSONALS  See you at the prayer Rathskeller at 7:30 tonight.  meeting  In  
saturday and Sunday 9-7 or chance. Ralph casperson, 1303 Buchanan fbld, Niles.  Wanted: ride to Toledo this \Mlekend. Call Peggy, 6661.  Unda Du allein aus allen leuten L.elstest mir so vlele A'euden.  If your degree Is in Education, 8\gineer­ing, Business, Music, Social Work or Uberal Arts, job possibilities exist with  
WANTED  FOR SALE  Nun llerleih mir, wenn lch kurz sag': "Beste Wuensche zum Geburtstag."  PEACE CORPS-VISTA. Talk to re<rulter today through Thursday in the Ubrary  
Manchmal  Main Concourse.  
Need 1 Davidson and West Va. ticket.  Kawasaki G-5 100 a:. Bcceflent mndltion,  
call Kevin 283·1724.  good for mmmutlng. 120 plus mpg. call  CONGRATULATIONS to Fred and Anne  Whop, Dolph, T, Z, Ivan,  
Need 1\W Marquette tickets. Mlrv 4-5445. Need 2 tickets to the Davidson game. can 272-3680 ask for Michelle.  1688. lkli110x Sectrlcal guitar. Nice sound and good action. call Bob at 1487. NO Le1ter jacket, cheap. call 1922.  Gra~~er, proud parents of a bouncing Bi­centennial Baby Boy! Welmme JOSHUA SAMUEL GRAVER Class of '9811 Come join our staff. The OBSERVER Gang. Ealador needs acxDUntants; Malaysia needs romputer Instructors and Bots­ We'11e got a oon110y. JBAG Tom knows!! When you're hungry for  home-cooked  
Want 2 Marquette tickets. call Jim 1767, 278 Dillon.  ~lomite ski boots, season. call 1924.  size  9. Used  one  wanna needs public administrators. Talk to PEACE CORPS-VISTA.reaulters to­.  food, Mall.  mme  to TACO  RICO,  Scottsdale  
day.  Th.e.:e:s. a  job for ~u.  Talk 10.  
CHICAGO 715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. ZIP: 60611 TEL: (312) 944-7506 Qe~/gn Copyright. Tiffany & Co. 1976 



Elsa's sculptured heart is on a chain, but it flirts UIJ, down and around. Sterling silver heart with fifteen-inch chain,$ 34. 
...

TIFFANY &CO. 
•.'-• # • ' • .. :.:. •·•· -• ~ 


8 
the observer Tuesday, February 3, 1976 
Powerful teams emergi_n_g in t~ interhall b-ball compet1t1on 
score of 76-51. Four men were in 13 points for Planner IV. Alumni double figures for Keenan with by Ray O'Brien 
later in the week rolled past Dennis Kelly taking game honors 
Howard II 68-4,5 to stretch it's first The Interhall Basketball league with 18 points. John O'Donnell place margin. · Flanner IV stands 
standings have started to take. had 17 points for Morrissey. alone in second place with a 4-1 shape as several undefeated teams Dillon III came out victorious in a record. met for the first time. battle of undefeateds in League III Undefeated Cavanaugh JII de­
League I was the only quiet as they slaughtered Planner III feated previously unbeaten off­league as both Morrissey I and 51-29. Planner's Ross Christensen Campus VII by a score of 57-35 to 
Fisher I continued their winning scored a game high of 15 points. up it's record to 5-0 which is tops in ways. Morrissey I stretched it's Flanner III dropped to second place League V. Roman Clos and unbeaten streak to five by romping with a 3-1 record. Marty Koppenhaffer paced the over second place Off-Campus I by Cavanaugh I kept up with Dillon winners while Jeff Adams scored 9 a scote of 59-34. Bill Murphy and by posting two wins during the points in a losing cause. Stanford Russ Lisch scored 16 and 11 points week. First Cavanaugh I defeated III then upset the falling O.C. VII respectively for the winners. O.C. I Sorin I 56-35 as Bill Schaffner, Bob team by a score of 62-52. Tom dropped to 2-2 and third place in Morris and Pat Kennedy were all in Thompson and Dave Gorecki scor­the standings. Fisher I picked up a double figures. Cavanaugh is now ed 17 and 18 points respectively for 
forfeit victory to up their record to 5-0. the upset minded Stanford III 4-0 and a share of first place. Alumni II came from behind to 
team. John Wirth topped the 
Off-Campus III had a big week defeat Planner IV 52-44 and cap­losers with 13 points. This knocked while remaining undefeated and ture sole possession of first place in O.C. VII back in the pack while tied for first place in League II with League IV. Jim Kelly, Bob Buger 
Stanford (4-1) pulled into a second Keenan I. It began when O.C. Ill and Dave Bushelle both poured in place tie with Grace V. knocked off previously unbeaten St. Ed's I by a score of 71-51. The winners relied on a balanced attack with four players scoring double figures led by a high of 14 points by Carl Thompson and Joe Montana. 
*Observer 
Reggie Reed scored 15 points in a losing cause while St. Ed's I record dropped to 3-1. 
Later in the week O.C. III upped their record to 5-0 by trouncing Pangborn I 47-38. This time team 






Sports
high scorer Tom Monaghan led the way with a game high of 18 points. meanwhile Keenan I stayed at the top by routing Morrissey II by a 
by EUeen O'Grady centers. "This is the strongest game we've had from the center Saturday afternoon was not as position," Duffy said. Both Bonita
Rencher making the switch 
sad for some basketball players as Bradshaw, the starting center, and others. In fact, the women's bas­Maureen Maloney scored sixby Fred Herbst 
The tempo is faster than what I was over. He's the greatest passer I've ketball team felt very proud of points. "Bonita also did a good job The transition from high school prepared for, so the first part of the ever seen come out of high themselves. They beat previously intimidating them," she added. to life at Notre Dame is difficult 
season I was out of shape. I'm just school," Phelps remarked. undefeated Northwestern Univers­Maloney scored her points in the for any freshman. And if the 
now getting into top form physic-After having scored 1,253 career ity 43-34. last seven minutes of the game on individual is from the busy streets 
ally. "But he's a long way from being points at Mater Christi High School Irish coach Sally Duffy termed it three successive drives. These of New York, the transition to the 
satisfied with his play. "My jump­in New York, where he played with "a total team effort. Almost the were the crucial points for Notre slow-moving, often boring Notre shot is really messed up. I have to Notre Dame teammate Ray Martin, whole team played and really Dame since Northwestern had Dame campus can be even more 
get my game together to be an and being named the Most Val­played well," she explained. "Also taken the lead by four. 
difficult. And if the individual is asset offensively," he said. uable Player in the Brooklyn­this is the first time we really had With two minutes left in the fr,,m the streets of New York and 
Before he can "get his game Queens Catholic League last seas­balanced scoring." game, the Irish switched from zone also playing varsity basketball at together" however, he needs on, Rencher became one of the Co-captain Mary Clemency was to man-to-man defense, enablingNotre Dame, the transition can be 
something that he hasn't been most highly sought after high again the high scorer for the Irish them to control the ball. Clemencyalmost impossible. getting too much of -playing time. school basketball players in the with nine points. But guard Carol and Lally took advantage of the While Bernard Rencher isn't 
Rencher understands Coach Digger country. Lally connected for eight points and press, scoring the last few baskets fi1.ding the task of transition im-. 
Phelps' desire to use his more Rencher turned down Southern Bonita Bradshaw, Maureen Mal­to strengthen the Irish lead. possible, he is finding it to be · 
experienced players in crucial sit­Cal, Cincinnati and St. John's of oney and Marge Meagher each Duffy commented on the team's rugged. "This is a big change, a 
u.ations, but like any good player he New York among other schools racked up six points. hustling. "They did a Jot better on rough change." he says. "I'm from won't be satisfied unless he plays before he decided to come to Notre ''Our defense probably won the second efforts; hustling after loose the city, and the city is what makes every minute of every game. Dame. He chose Notre Dame since game for us," Duffy continued. balls, rebounding. It really made a me click. It's been hard to adapt, 
While Rencher isn't seeing a he felt that it gave him the best "This is the first time we had good difference," she explained.
especially in my social life. But the great deal of playing time, Phelps combination of academic and ath­defense without fouling." "Northwestern was a much taller hardest change of all is the books.'' 
is aware of his abilities. "Bernard's letic programs. "I like the school In the past the Irish had a team, but we were quicker," she But one place that Rencher isn't 
made great strides. He has great and the people," Rencher said. problem with starters fouling out. added. 
finding the transition difficult is on potential, all he needs is exper­"Notre Dame offered the best Mary Clemency's foul out in their The next game for the Irish will the basketball court. "College ball ience. I feel that he'll be a big education. Plus they play my type last home game against St. Mary's be an away game against Albion isn't that much of a change for me. 
contributor before the season is of ball, run and shoot basketball." was a major reason for the Notre College. The women will feature a But perhaps the biggest reason Dame Joss. Also in the loss to doubleheader weekend of basket­Rencher chose Notre Dame was the Indiana, two Irish centers fouled ball when they will host Indiana schedule that the Irish play. "I out. University at Fort Wayne and have no doubts about my ability, Against the Wildcats, Notre Northern Illinois University on Feb. 
and I want to prove that I can do the Dame had great success with their 13 and 14. job," he says. "The schedule was impressive, and I want to be put to the test." 
Lewis beats Walsh, Farley
The only goal that Rencher has set for himself at Notre Dame is to play up to his potential and make a 

tops B-P in women's 1-H 
significant contribution to the 
by Elleen O'Grady Lyons put on a very effective full
team. He sees his present role as 
court press which intimidated Lew­
that of coming in off the bench to 
Women's Interhall Basketball is but it wasn't enough to win the
spark the offense with his passing 
game.
completed its fourth round of
ability. However, he hopes to start 
competition Sunday with Lewis
and play fulltime in the future. 

providing the surprise of the after­Farley 15 Breen-Phllllps 10
He would like to play profession­
noon by edging Lyons by one point.
al ball after he graduates, but he 
Farley took its fourth game and Once again undefeated Farley
doesn't count on it. "I definitely 
Walsh won over Farley (1) by came on strong to easily take this 
want to play pro ball," Rencher 
game and get a better grip on theirforfeit. 
says. "But for now I don't think 
second championship in a row. 
about it since it isn't a realistic goal Lewis 24 Lyons 23 Guard Chris Datzman looked im­at the moment." pressive leading the scoring with Other than basketball, Rencher's The game was a surprising upset seven points. Four of those were goal is a simple one, he just wants since Lewis entered the contest 0-3 scored on two fast break layups in a to "become something." "I just and Lyons had only lost one game. row. Farley had a good shooting want to become something," he But Lewis was hot, scoring 11 percentage on the whole and made 
said, ''and Notre Dame seems to be points in the eight minute first their rebounds good. 
The dom teams are starting to emerge as lnterhall Basketball play continues. [Photo by Chris Smith] 
Women's basketball team edges Northwestern,43-34 


a good place to start.'' quarter. Andrea Smith, playing center for 
Just wanting to "become some­Lewis kept the lead for the rest of Breen-Phillips, led their scoring with four points, but Farley domi­
thing" might not sound like much a the game, led primarily by Helene of a goal, but for a 18 year old from 
._..,..-
Gorman who scored 10 points. nated the whole game . the streets of New York it's a good 
Lewis did manage to put up a good The present standings are: Freshman Bernard Rencher has dazzled the Irish crowds with his fight in the fourth quarter when Farley 4-0, Walsh 3-1, BP 1-3,
start. And a start is all that Bernard 
passing ability. [Photo by Chris Smith] . tht:Y outscored Lewis nine to three. Farley (1) 1-3, Lewis 1-3.
Rencher needs. 





