
SLC elections need student involvement 
By Karen Sikorski SLC elections, despite an earlier Staff Reporter lack of candidates for the four student positions.In an earlier Observer article, 
Poor attendance at a meeting for Byrne emphasized the importance potential candidates was due not to 

of student involvement in the elections, saying, "The ability of 
a lack of interest, but to a mistake the SLC to assume the important 
in an Observer notice for the position it was created to occupy 
meeting, according to Student depends entirely on the quality of 
Body President Ed Byrne. "It was a misunderstanding," he said, and

its representatives." 
added that possible candidatesPrimary elections will be held frequently learn of the opportunityFebruary 23, and SLC representat­to run by word of mouth rather thanives will share the ballot with through posters or other types ofcandidates for Student Body Presi­publicity. The deadline for filing isdent. The campus will be divided 6 p.m. today.
into three districts for voting. Distrkt I will be made up of all Byrne describes the SLC as "the undergraduate off-campus stude­only group whose responsibility it nts. District 2 will include the South is to deal with the problems of the 

by Mary Reher petitions were given out, but only Tonight the candidates willQuad, together with St. Ed's, entire university community where Senior Staff Reporter three were returned by the 11 p.m. speak in th~ Morrissey Lounge at
Lewis, St. Joseph, Cavanaugh, and administrators, faculty and stud­

deadline last night. 11 p.m., Gottsaeker stated. "Ano­Holy Cross Halls. Farley, Breen­ents get together regularly to Student Body President candi­The campaign period lasts until 1 ther forum is tentatively scheduled Phillips. Zahm. Keenan, Stanford, discuss solutions." He adds that 
dates Mike Gassman Mike Swei­a.m. Monday, Feb. 23, Gottsaeker for next Tuesday in Stanford at IIGrace. and Flanner Halls will ''Criticism of the SLC tends to gart and Tim Boyle kick off their noted. Election primaries will be p.m. We are planning a third to be
comprise District 3. ignore the significance of its right election campaigns today at noon. held the same day, he said, and the held in Grace Pit but the date or Ten students have declared their to appeal to the Board subsequent Election Committee Chairman be held
elections themselves will time have not been decided upon
intention to run in the February 25 to a Presidential veto.'' Peter Gottsaeker observed that four the following Wednesday. yet," he added. Both Sweigart and GassmanCompares South Bend to Buffalo intend to coordinate HPC and SLC with Student Government services and to improve communications
Hass writes to 'work out confusion J 
between Student Government and the student body.
hy Barbara Breitenstein out the confusion." Staff Reporter "I write clearly and I also write Sweigart and his running mate about subjects," Hass continued. 
Bill Walsh propose a newsletter 
Hohcrt Hass. a recently recog­"My impulse was to name things. directed at Student Government, SLC and HPC committee m~mhers
nized American poet. recited his I use poetry to describe what is 
there." to keep in touch with the immediate work and told stories for an hour la~t night at the Sophomore Liter­Reading in a slow clear voice, the 
concerns of the other organiza­ary Festival in the library audito-­34-year-old poet first recited poems tions. about his experiences in California,
rium. 
where, he said, he first started "to
Hass, who won the 1973 Yale Open administration emphasized 
get hysterical about the VietnamSeries of Younger Poets award, war and what was happening to theread primarily from his only pub­landscape." He continued with the Sweigart also emphasized thelished volume. Field Guide. and poems written in Buffalo, where he importance of an "open admini­explained his poetry with back­moved to teach at the university, stration" to encourage people toground stories which drew laughs and the haikus, all contained in his come in to see the SBP and offerfrom the audience numerous times. 
published volume. "constructive criticism with a posi­One poem, which "might well be Hass concluded with five poems tive resolve in mind."
written about South Bend,'' was "about people and desire," and Gassman and his running matewritten, Hass said. when he left was applauded for his poem Mike Casey expect to form aCalifornia and went to Buffalo "Against Verneer." The final Student Body Congress that would("which was a shock"). The poem poem "Songs to Survive the Sum­meet twice a year. "It would be was entitled, "The failure of Buf­mer,'' a response to his daughter's composed of the HPC, SLC. thefalo to Levitate." 
fear of death, is the only of these Student Union Board of Directors 
Hass also drew laughs for his poems to have been published. and the SBP or SBVP. The first translations of ten haikus written "l have two books coming out," time the organizations would sub­by Kobayashi lssa, a Japanese poet Hass stated at a reception held in mit proposals and at the last "capable of comedy." The audi­the Library lounge after his lecture. meeting they would review and erK'l' rl'sponded loudest to one He has published poetry in several evaluate their action on the propo­about a moth "burnt to a crisp" by magazines and anthologies, and is sals." thL·light in a "woman's chamber." presently teaching at St. Mary's Gassman also proposes that a 
College in Oakland, California. Student Government or a StudentThe audience was silent through Hass will participate in two open Union representative regularly at­most of Hass' more serious read­workshops this afternoon, which tend the HPC meetings.
ings, however, and burst into will be at 2:20 p.m. in Prof. ·'The groups would get betterapplause with the reading of Hass' Sandeen's Poetry class in room 220 interaction and be more unified inbest known poem. "Lament for the O'Shaughnessy and at 3:25p.m. in their work," he stated.

Poles of Buffalo." Written on the the library lounge. He will also join "I also want to establish a pressoccasion of a grand jury investiga­

tion of anti-war activities on the city. to the higher-class American life." the poet Galway Kinnell, also secretary to improve relations with scheduled to appear at the Festival, the students and the media,"
State U nivcrsity of New York at "I was stuck in the middle," Hass described his motivation on Friday at 9 a.m. in the library Gassman said.
Buffalo. where Hass was faculty Hass explained. betwec>n the "sec­for writing poetry as "a desire for 
lounge. Both Gassman and Sweigart
advisor to the SDS, the long poem ond and third-class Polish and clarity." "I write when I'm happy. is also a response to Hass' experi­Russian people who settled the city I write when I'm confused," he The Sophomore Literary Festival expressed a desire to continue work 
will continue with a lecture by on the drinking lobby in Indianapo­ences with the Polish people of the and their children who acquiesced explained. "I write to try to work Louis Simpson, poet, tonight at 8 lis. 


Hall improvements require funds 
by Matt Kane things done." mittee's accomplishments, such as Staff Reporter Wilson reacted positively to the adding "Mr. Pip" and poached suggestions of bringing a laundry eggs to the menu. The HPC 
To acquire funds for hall im­facility on campus. However, he members then suggested bringing provements the HPC members also said the University policy food to sick people and exchanging must solicit their rectors' support supports on-campus services which North-South Dining Hall privi­as well as contributing some hall are in the ''best interest of the leges. money. student." He expressed concern Corpora was unable to say how 
Fr. Jerome Wilson, Vice-Presi­that another facility might hurt the much money is allotted to food dent for Business Affairs, expres­University laundry business. services from the students' bill sed this view at the HPC meeting The women's halls rejected a since the University has a policy last night. proposal allowing men to use their against disclosing this figure. 
To get hall improvements next laundry machines during certain Wacky Winter Weekend Chair­year, hall governments should have hours. Although men offered to man John Rooney tried to elicitsubmitted recommendations to pay for the machine use, women more support from halls who haveStudent Affairs. Maintenance pointed out that the facilities are ignored it. Rooney said he hadexamines the recommendations over-used now. 

received contest entries from about before Vice-President for Student half the halls. He repeated thatAffairs Bro. Just Paczesny ap­Cafeteria Survey most events will occur regardless of proves them. 
the weather; only a couple ofBefore the improvements are Joe Corpora, co-ex commissioner events would be canceled. Thefinalized, the University Budget and food advisory committee success of the event would dependCommittee decides how much is to chairman, reported that a survey on the halls' participation, hebe allotted for hall improvement on dining hall service and food noted.
that year. Allotments for each quality has been compiled. The 

all will be given in the spring and committee will not release its The HPC recently surveyed hall will begin July 1. report until after showing the fire safety facilities. Johnson felt "The major obstacle is to find results to the dining hall staff, who that the halls were reasonably h money," Wilson observed. had no knowledge of the survey. prepared to deal with an emer­
'Show us the money and we'll get Corpora listed some of his com-gency. 

p.m. in the library auditorium. (continued on page 2) 
O'Neil to reo/ace Keeney as Observer editor-in-chie 
Tom O'Neil was elected editor-in chief of The Observer last night. 
O'Neil received a majority vote of the Observer Editorial Board and night editors. He will replace Terry Keeney, current editor-in-chief, on March 10. 
O'Neil, a junior English major from Mentor, Ohio, has worked at the Observer for three years. This 
he has served on the Editorial Board as features editor. 
In his freshman year, O'Neil worked on the production staff as assistant night editor and was promoted to night editor in his sophomore year. 
This year he has also been 
responsible for conducting training 
workshops in newspaper layout and 
design. 
In his new duties as editor-in· chief, O'Neil will assume daily responsibility for all departments at The Observer, including super­vision of the business and advertis­ing departments. 

Wednesday, February 18, 1976
the observer 
~---NewsBriefs----­
I=========Intemational 
King Carlos to visit U.S. 
MADRID, Spain--King Juan Carlos will visit the United States June 3, the news agency Europa Press said yesterday. It will be the first such visit by a Spanish chief of state since before the Spanish civil war. 
The agency said the 38-year-old monarch, who became king Nov. 20, would visit President Ford and participate in various activities in connection with the American Bicentennial celebration. 
r-================Nation~ 
'Anyone right' of Ford can't win 
WASIDNGTON--President Ford said last night he doesn't believe "anyone to the right of me, Democrat or Republican, can win a national election." 
In a nationally broadcast news conference, Ford said he expects to "do well" in forthcoming Republican presidential primaries in New Hampshire and Florida. 
Ford specifically cited his philosophical differences with c~:mservative former Gov. Ronald Reagan of California, his chief nval for the GOP presidential nomination. 
Baseball to return to Seattle 
EVERETT, Wash.--The Seattle baseball trial was adjourned in Superior Court Tuesday, clearing the final legal obstacle to the return of American League play to the city. 
Judge Frank Howard told the nine-woman, three-man jury that they were dismissed, although the $32.5 million lawsuit will remain on the books until April1977. 
That is when an American League expansion team is to begin play. When it does, the settlement calls for the suit to be dismissed. 
--On Campus Today---.~ 

Relates captivity 
Hearst resumes testimony 

12 pm-
2:20pm­3:25pm­3:25pm­
3:30pm ­
4:15pm­
4:30pm­
6:30pm­6:45pm­
7 pm­
7:30 
pm ­

7:30 
pm ­


8 pm­8 pm­
8 pm­
8:15 pm ­
workshop, by richard willemin, spon. by graduate stud. union, grad lounge, Iafortune workshop, robert hass, rm 220 o'shaughnessy 
workshop, louis simpson, library lounge seminar, molecular sieves: from a scientific curiosity to the chemical process industry, rm 269, chem. eng. bldg. 
lecture, "stress analysis of yarns," spon. by 
aerospace and mech. eng. dept., rm 303 eng. bldg. lecture, "welfare implications of intergenerational planning methods," spons. by econ. dept., rm 105, law bldg. 
colloquium, "retrocausation in classical electrodyn­amics," spons. by physics dept., rm 118 nieuwland sci. hall 
meeting, sailing club, rm 204, eng. bldg. 
chess club, south bend chess club vs. nd, south bend library fencing, gym, ace folk dancing, free instructions, Iafortune ballroom wrestling, aux. gym, ace ice capades, ace, tix $5.50, $4.50 and $3 philosophy series, "can a theory answer more 
questions than one of its rivals," galvin aud soph. lit. fest., louis simpson, lib. aud. lecture, religious art of old russia, rm 158, northside 
west, iusb. 
r-----~~E~-----,
I . I
i OPPORTUNITIES. i 
1 Join a great officer team of engineers and 1 1 architects who build for the Navy. Plan, design, 1 I construct and maintain shore-based facilities I I and undersea structures, worldwide. Exercise I I leadership and take on responsibilities young I
I I
civilian engineers rarely have-while meeting requirements for registration as a PE. Excel­
1 1 
I 
lent pay, housing and medical benefits. 1 
Lt. E. M. Schaefer 1 
1 1
I Military Sci. Bldg. I I 283-6442 I 
f THENAVY~ I !.--~IVIL ENGitjEER.CoRPL_J 

SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Patricia Hearst; resuming her testimony at her bank robbery trial, said today her terrorist kidnappers. planned to kill her and fight it out if any of their hideouts were surrounded by federal agents. 
Speaking firmly and with no visible trace of emotion, Miss Hearst said that Symbionese Liber­ation Army leader Donald "Cin­que" DeFreeze had told her of an incident in Oakland a day or two after her Feb. 4, 1974 abduction in which the FBI stormed a house where they suspected she was being held captive. 
"Cinque told me they would have killed me and fought it out with the FBI if we had been in the house," Miss Hearst said. "He said they would never have surren­dered." 
Her chief attorney, F. Lee Hai­ley, then began asking her questio­ns about a closet she and her jury saw on a tour Monday of two SLA "safe houses" where the young heiress was held captive. 
The defendant has testified that her first taped "communique" was made from a closet in a house in suburban Daly City a few days after her kidnapping. She said today that DeFreeze and other SLA members then left her more or less alone until-they ordered her to make a second tape, received Feb. 12, in which the SLA issued a demand for $70 worth of food for each of California's needy. 
Clad in a navy blue pants suit with large white bow, Miss Hearst testified that she was kept blindfol­ded except when allowed to go to the toilet and take an occasional 
bath. 
She said an SLA member was always present when her blindfold was off, but was wearing a ski mask. 
Miss Hearst began relating her story of captivity by the SLA in her first witness stand appearance before her jury on Friday. That was followed by the tour Monday of the terrorist hideouts. 
The seven women and five men of the jury -11 whites and one Asian-American -also heard Miss Hearst describe the pain she endured while locked in tiny closets in the "safe houses" the panel viewed Monday. 
A blindfold tied over her eyes pressed down on her left cheek, which had been smacked by a gun butt during her kidnapping, she said. 
"It was really sore and it would press down on it so that I could always feel it because the blindfold was pressing on it," she said. 

Sociology majors to meet 
meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in 104 0'Shaughnessy. 
It is imperative that stu\lent input is gathered at this meting concerning next semester's course offerings and the upcoming Alpha Kappa Delta (AKD, sociology hon­or society) sponsored Lonvention. 
The agenda of this meeting is structured to gain student input from a variety of topics. In anticipa­tion of the fall 1976 semester, it must be determined whether there is student interest in such planned courses as the sociology of sport, art and business; ethnic groups such as American Irish, Italians and Polish; and the sociology of political parties. 
The Observer is published Monday 1hrough Friday and weekly during !he sull'ITlel' session, except during !he exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by !he students Of !he Univ. Of Notre Darre and St. Ma-y's College. Subscriptions may be purdlased for $18 1$10 per semester) 

All present sociology majors and those freshmen and sophomores interestedin becoming majors are requested to attend a special short 
;f:The Observer 
Night Editor: Marti Hogan Ass't Night Editor: Debbie Dahrling layout Staff: Paul Schappler, leigh Tunakan, Bob Brink, Joe Bauer·~ Julie Pellettiere Day Editor: Martha Fanning, Jim Commyn Copy Reader: Gregg B. Bangs, Mary Reher Editorials: Jim Stevens Features: Tom Paulius Sports: Bill Brink Ad layout: Sally Dentz, Tom Walrath, Mike Miller, Tommy Whelan Typists: Karen Hinks, Neil' Viii, Hank Van Dyke, Mel 
fro-n The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Sealnd Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

~ir 1\irhard's 
BARBER STYLING 

UNISEX HAIR SJYL!ffli 
1!9 DIXIEWAY SOUTH ROSElAND IN PORTAGE WLTY BUilDING 277..o7M 

Are You Graduating Soon? 
* 
Are You Eligible to Teach in High School? 

* 
Are You Willing to Help Young People Through Education? 


w·e Are The Christian Brothers
* We Are a Roman Catholic Religious Order of Teaching Brothers 
We Have a Live-/nProgram for You 
* 
You Will Become Actively Involved with Us: -In Our Living of Community -In Our Educational Service 

* 
You Will Have an Excellent Opportunity to See if Religious 


Life Is for You.  BROTHER  LAWRENCE  PORREITA. F.S.C.  
Write  or  Call for  More  Director of Vocations  
Information:  200 De La Salle Drive  
G  IVE  IT  A  TRY!!  Lockport.  Illinois  60441  

Celeste Night Controller: Dave Rust 
· 

In between her recitations, jurors heard the tape recorded voices of Miss Hearst's captors, used by the defense to support her statements. 
They heard DeFreeze speaking of revolution and demanding that Miss Hearst's father, newspaper executive Randolph Hearst, feed the poor. 
In the final tape played at the 

morning session, Miss Hearst also 
declared, "I hope you will not think 
that I've been brainwashed or 
tortured into saying this." 
Seated in the front row of the courtroom as the tape played were three defense psychiatrists who will take the stand to support defense contentions that Miss Hearst indeed was brainwashed. 
Miss Hearst is expected to remain on the stand Wednesday for further testimony and cross-exami­nation. Her lawyers say they may rest their case early next week. 
SBP elections 

(continued from page 1) Sweigart proposes to set up a "bond fund" for students arrested for under-age drinking in Indiana. "A sum of money would best be set aside to be used as personal loans to help students post bond when arrested," he stated. "We want to shorten their stay in jail," Sweigart commented. Gassman intends to work with the Academic Council and the Business College to eliminate ov­er-crowding in the College of Business. Gassman also hopes to follow up work on the COUL report, to publish a manual of Student Gov­ernment services, to work for further involvement with the Board of Trustees and to give the Hall Judicial Boards more responsibility regarding such aspects as party rules and parietals. Running for Vice-President with Tim Boyle is Peter Gaa. Boyle and Gaa were unavailable for comment. 
Volunteers needed to assist elderly 
All those interested in working with the elderly are urged to attend an orientation meeting tonight at St. Mary's. The meeting will be held at 7 p.m. in room 111, Holy Cross Hall. Those unable to attend should contact St. Mary's Volun­teer Service Office. 

World's Most Advanced 
Automatic SLR System 
NEW LOW PRICE 
Just AIM-FOCUS-SHOOT Konica sets exposure 
A-U-T-0-M-A-T-1-C-A-L-L-Y 
ONLY With 50mm f/1.7 $199.95 Konica lens 

W/CASE Cavalier Camera 
u.s. 31 
At Bell Road Niles, Mi. 


~,-_________f_8,_sl_83_8--89_oo_-_Ex_.6,....8----~, ·' \ .·· 684-2640 I 

..----------­~----~ 
Wednesday, February 18, 1976 the observer 
3 

Ford announces CIA reorganization 
WASHINGTON AP-President one place; the National Security of Lyndon B. Johnson, and Leo classified information to reveal that actions and proposals, Ford said he 
Ford, saying he is conducting the Council, consisting ofthe President Cherne, a New York economist and information improperly." He did was "guided by two imperatives," 
first major reorganization of the the Vice President, the Secretary of lawyer. not elaborate on the specifics of the and continued: 
intelligence community in 29 years, State and the Secretary of Defense. The ' President also disclosed.., bill he will propose. "As Americans, we must not and unveiled Tuesday night "a new But he added that the manage­Ford also said he will support will not tolerate actions by our command structure" that places ment of the intelligence community 
legislation to prevent assassination government which abridge the management of foreign intelligence would be conducted •'by a single attempts aimed at foreign leaders rights of our citizens. At the same under a new committee to be new committee" to be headed by and will meet with congressional time, we must maintain a strong headed by CIA Director George Bush. leaders to seek legislation to pro­and effective intelligence capability Bu&h. ' Ford also announced that he was vide "judicial safeguards" against in the United States. I will not be a In his opening statement for a creating "a new independent Over­electronic eavesdropping and mail party to the dismantling of the CIA televised news conference, Ford sight Board to be made up of openings. and other intelligence agencies." noted the congressional investiga­private citizens" to monitor the In announcing the "new com­If the government were unable to tions of CIA during the past year performance of CIA, the Defense mand structure", which will be put obtain adequate and timely intelli­and declared: Intelligence Agency, the National into effect without need for legisla­gence, Ford contended, this would 
•'The overriding task now is to Security Agency and other intelli­tion, Ford said that the NSC, the "cripple our security in a world rebuild the confidence and capabil­gence gathering organizations. oversight board and the Bush that is still hostile to our freedoms.' ity of our intelligence services so To act as chairman, Ford an­chaired Committee on Foreign The President said intelligence that we can live securely in peace nounced the appointment of former Intelligence "will be responsible to goes beyond the question of whe­and freedom. That is my goal." Ambassador Robert D. Murphy. that on Wednesday he will send me so that the President will ther military attack was imminent. 
By executive order, Ford said, As members, Ford said he was Congress legislation that "would continue to be ultimately account­He said data also needed about "Henceforth, overall policy direct­naming Stephen Ailes, secretary of make it a crime for a government able for our intelligence activities." economic matters, political and ions for intelligence will rest in only the Army during the administration employee who has access to highly Citing "exhaustive investiga­social trends, food supply and 
tions" into the activities into the population growth, "and certainly • • CIA and other intelligence units, about terrorism." "I believe in peace through
Noted speakers diSCUSS AmeriCa's future Ford said that "facts, hearsay, and
closely held secrets, all have been strength," the President said echo­spread out on the public record." ing a phrase he has used frequently 
He added: during his primary election cam­By Phil Cackley warned that they would be contro­ical science at Indiana University; and Carl a "We have learned many lessons paign trips. 
Senior Staff Reporter versial speakers who would give Estabrook, doctoral from this experience, but we must A central pillar of strength is thestraightforward warnings of what candidate in Historical Theology at not become obsessed with the armed forces, he said, "but ano­''The American Future: A Radi­might happen in America unless Howard will moderate the discus­deeds of the past. We must act for ther great pillar must be ourcal perspective" will be the theme things are changed. sion, on "America: A Radical the future." intelligence community, the dedic­of a Bicentennial conference next "We've decideci to address our­Future?" 
He termed his executive reor­ated men and women, who gatherweek, February 23-25. selves to a critical analysis of where 
Lester Thurow, professor of eco­
ganization moves the first major vital information around the worldThe conference is being organ­America is and where it's going," at will onnomics MIT, speak ones to involve the intelligence and carry out missions that ad­ized by the Notre Dame Bicenten­Grace said of the Notre Dame (continued on page 6) system since 1947. In framing his vance our interests in the world."
nial Committee and will feature Bicentennial Committee. Most five speakers in the fields of committees in communities are theology, economics, and political doing "a lot of red, white, and 

Robert Klein to appear in 
science. blue" this year, he commented. Augie Grace, chairman of the The Notre Dame Committee has committee, called the conference approached the Bicentennial from 

upcoming WWW festivities 
ARE
the most important to be held at an analytical angle since "we're an 

Comedian Robert Klein will ap-in students' mailboxes by Friday. Notre Dame this year. He said the academic committee.'' pear in Stepan Center Saturday, 
Garonski said that a squarespeakers would challenge students The program will include lecture Feb. 21, as part of the festivities for dance will also be held Saturday 
AME
to think and take a critical look at and panel discussions, in which Wacky Winter Weekend. His per­night in LaFortune Ballroom. TheAmerica in this Bicentennial year. Grace said he hopes there would be formance will begin at 8 p.m. 


dance will begin at 10 p.m. andinteraction between the audience
Next week's conference preceeds Tickets for the show will be on sale end at 1 a.m. Admission is free. 
NATURALLY
a larger Bicentennial conference, and the speakers. Friday, Feb. 20 at the Student The Caller will be Pete Freel.
"An Almost Chosen People, the Union Ticket office and Saturday
Reuther to open

Moral Aspirations of Americans," night at the door for $2. Garonski and Smouse also coco-
REI.DOIB?
to be sponsored by the University's Kathy Smouse, SU social commi-uraged students to take part in the committee from March 7-11. The conference begins Monday, ssioner, emphasized that all this Wacky Wabbitt Contest being held Grace explained the "American Feb. 23. when Rosemary Reuther, year's activities have been planned this week. "The object of the Future" Conference will act to get professor of historical theology at regardless of the weather. "In contest is to find where Wacky is 
Maybe they're naturally in­students thinking and critically Howard University, will speak at 8 planning the activities this year the hidden," Smouse explained. Clues dustrious, inventive or frontier­evaluating America and will, in this p.m. in the Library Auditorium on commission looked for events that are given each day in the personals oriented.
way, compliment the Almost Chos­"Humanity's Global Crisis: Amer­could be held whether it snowed or of the Observer and over WSND. 
But naturally religious? No. 
en People Conference. ica's Responsibility." not," Smouse noted. Smouse and Guesses can be turned in Friday All of the speakers are well A panel discussion at 10 A.M. Leo Garonski, Assistant SU social evening during the Disco-Dance in 
85 million Americans have known in their fields, Grace said, Tuesday in the Library Auditorium commissioner, added that a booklet Lafortune. The winner will be 
ao expressed faith. Millions more although their names may be will include Cox, Reuther, Sheldon containing a complete list of this announced at this time. A prize of 
don't practice the faith they pro­obscure to the general public. He Gellar, assistant professor of pol it-weekend's events and times will be $100 will be given to the winner. 
fess. Millions more, every year, 1 drift away from faith altogether. i If you believe in the power
--------~------1
Intra-hall athletics require 

of the Gospel of Jesus and think His Gospel still has something to , offer America, then maybe you
additional time in ACC THE FJGWTIP,tf"IRISH t 
'should investigate the Paulistby Paul Stevenson oftice who would qualify as superv-f way of life. 
Staff Reporter isors. Section teams would also be The Paulists are a small com­

given a list of referees if desired," t 
, munity of Catholic priests whoThe addition of intra-hall athlet­O'Leary added. 
have been bringing the Gospelics to the ACC schedule would However, supervision is not the t I of Jesus to the American Peopleconsiderably minimize time allo­main concern. "There is no probl-t in innovative ways for over 100cated for individual student use em except for the calendar and the years.
according to John Plouff. managing time clock," Plouff stated. "There t director of the ACC. has to be a certain amount of time 
We do this everyday through the communication arts-books,"The gymnasiums are in dema­for free play, which at the present f publications, television and radiond with wrestling. fencing and is very small. We want students to • -on college campuses, in par­basketball." Michael Danch, even­be able to have some time to come ishes, in missions in the U.S., ints manager of the ACC. remarked. to the ACC and shoot some baskets t downtown centers, in workingAfter Club Sports and inter-hall. or use the facilities as he desires." 
with young and old.
there is no free time left for section Although intra-hall athletics may f athletics. Stepan Center would be desired by many, the ACC f 
We don't believe in sitting hopefully be the site of some scheduling personnel want to main-
back. Do you? 
volleyball and basketball games, tain some open time for the f but with events such as Mardi Gras individual student. ACC officials and the Jazz Festival makes using hope in the immediate future all f 
THE 
Stepan Center difficult." involved will be satisfied. Danch believes that after spring 


LISlS 
break , when the basketball season 

rfiOW~~, l 
Missionaries to Modern America 
IS over. some intra-hall athletics will be handled through Dominick 

Mail to:
I STRONG ARE I I 
Rev.Frank DeSiano,C.S.P., Room A 143 
Napolitano, director of non-varsity 
sports. 

PAULIST FATHERS 
Hopefully, section sport will be I YOU!?! I t 
415 West 59th Street able to appear after the mid-semes­
New York, N.Y. 10019 
ter break. "We hope to have a IFIND OUT IN ANI : 
Name _____________________
basketball tournament after spring break ... Mike Westervelt, athletic I ARM It t representative for Flanner Hall, 
Address---------------­
stated. "The tournament would 
WRESTLING II t t 
Cicy___________________
have to be double elimination to cut 

OURNAMENT! t .. t
down on court time however." 

State_________ Zip____
If court time be Sobn_sored By t SUNDAY EVENING, MARCH 7-7:30PM f
can arranged 11111 though, supervision must be acqui­11111 !:1 MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
College red. "There must be an authorized ll!.: CAUSE, !:1 t 211NorthMichiganStreet,SouthBend,lndiana46601 t 
attendmg---------­sor present in the ACC Ill'! t Tickets: $5.50-$4.50-$3.50 at the Auditorium Box Office. 
C~sof 
the games," Richard I An Organization J~ Mail orders must enclose a self addressed, stamped envelope. t 'Leary, assistant director of Club GROUPDISCOUNTSAVAILABLE
1..:_ t f 
ports, commented. "We have ~ Aid The Elderl Call(219)232-6954forlnformation. a udents who work in the inter-hall 
.................................-L----------------­

*1~dQ~,~~rver
Founded November 3, 1966 

EDITORIAL BOARD of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported 
The Observer is published by the students of the University 

AI Rutherford Managing Editor as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent 
Jim E'der Executive Editor 
the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­

Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor
mentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, 

Bob Mader News Editorcartoons and regular columns express the views of their authors. Column·.space is available to all members of the 
Maureen Rynn Campus Editor community, and leHers are encouraged to promote the free Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor expression of varying opinions on campus. Ken Bradford Copy Editor Val Zurblis Wire Editor Editorial!>,: 283-1715 News: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Tom O'Neil Features Editor Business Manager Tom Modglin Bill Brink Sports Editor Advertising Manager Tom Whelan Dan Sanchez Senior Night Editor 
Wednesday, February 18, 1976 

Signs of Life
' 
F1nally there are signs of life from the Administration and the Board of Trustees. Student llie Council. After its highly-touted Van Tassel and the others who worked on the reduction in membership, after months of survey, Bonnie Katz and Marlin Ritchie, also debate and discussion over the Committee deserve recognition for the effort they put in. on Undergraduate Priorities Report, the SLC 
Still, we remain somewhat pessimistichas brought forth its first major proposals about the chances of getting real supportand a student body survey. While there are from the Administration and Trustees. Fr.
still many obstacles to any real major Hesburgh took eight months to get around to improvements in life at Notre Dame, the approving the SLC' s simple proposal toSLC' s action is the first promising step along extend parietals for an hour a morning. Itthe obstacle course since the COUL Report took him months to absolutely reject the last first went to the Trustees. 

proposed revision of the University sexuality The social space committee has won the rule, something he could have done the first Council's approval for 12 of its 13 proposals, time he read it. Such absurd delays indicate including suggestions for renovating I.aFor­
near-total lack of respect for the SLC'stune. Some proposals are already being put proposals in the upper reaches of theinto effect. Social space committee chairman Administration.
John Reid and committee members Ken Girouard, Judy Arenson, Kathy DePauw, Students who have seen numerous excel­Kevin Kinney, Jim Brogle and Sue Darin lent reports politely filed away or sent back deserve commendation for the time and for interminable restudy and endless surveys effort they put in on the committee's work. have reason to be skeptical about the success 
Another sign of life is the survey of of this new effort. student opinions on Notre Dame social life But we urge the students who receive the (or lack thereof) produced by North Quad survey to take it seriously and take the time representative Ed Van Tassel's coeducation to fill it out. Perhaps even the best-drawn committee. The survey, covering drinking, survey and the best-prepared report will fail coed housing and social space, was created to affect the inertia at the top, but certainly a with the aid of the sociology and marketing survey and a report that are ignored by the departments and will be distributed to 1200 student body will be ignored by the randomly selected students. It is intended to Administration and the Board. Every once in provide evidence to back student proposals a while things do change around here. on social life which will be made to the Perhaps this will be one of those times. 
P.O. Box Q 

included a very revealing photo­case too many still survive, we can
Observer graph depicting the aftermath of always keep down the numbers 
Walker's violent rage. It's too bad with a government appropriation 
they couldn't get a shot of him in plank for birth control. 
Commended? 

the act of maliciously destroying If we take the constant teaching Dear Editor: these beautiful objets d'artes for of the Church seriously, abortion is his own pleasure and the fulfill­another word for 'murder'--the 
I would like to commend the ment of his violent impulses. How unjust taking of another person's Observer reporter who covered can this star reporter and this life. Pope Paul and the bishops of the crimes of the infamous Robert morally responsible editorial board the Catholic Church in recent Walker in the Feb. 11 issue of the follow this amazing piece of journa­documents have declared abortion paper. Not only did he report the lism? A follow-up story on the to be an unspeakable crime of the facts in a clear and totally unbiased reform of the heinous Robert murder of innocents. Surely this manner but he did his best to Walker (and his equally villainous should carry more weight than the expose the rampant corruption companions in architecture) is in shifting decisions of the Supreme which eats a:way at the heart of this order. I'm truly looking forward to Court. Christian community. His honest it. And, then, there's a mighty big appraisal of the situation, his total difference between positive sup­
Marla O'Meara concern to present both sides of the port of abortion (which stand the story and his obvious perseverence ladies ostensibly take) and non-in­
Anti-Abortion

in hunting down the whole story all terference with the rights of other combine to show his potential as a Dear Editor: persuasions to opt for abortion. truly great journalist. But, even here, how broadminded 
His ability to focus clearly on an The Indians say: "White man should we be in the face of citizens' issue of such overwhelming impor­speak with forked tongue." It claims to the right to practice child tance without losing his head or looks like white women speak with murder (abortion), or, if you will, exaggerating any of the facts once forked tongue too. some lesser evil such as child again demonstrates his uncanny To kill or not to kill--that is the abuse. knack for objective reporting and question. So what will it be, ladies? What you sow, ladies of the his sense of moral responsibility Or do we practice life discrimina­women's political caucus, you shall towards his readers. tion? ... Kill certain categories; pre­reap. And if this is meant to be a 
Of course, the reporter does not serve others. That seems to be the big game to see who can protest the deserve all the credit for this message coming out of the caucus: mostest or be the furthest outest, amazing expose. A pat on the back Let's permit the killing of the you might wake up to discover is definitely in order for the innocent in the womb, but Gust to you've been playing with the lives editorial board which was percep­balance things oft) let's have a of others ....Peace and justice. tive enough to place this fine piece pro-health plank, and throw in gun of work on the front page and also control for good measure. And in Fr. PhD Elmer, S.C.J. 
serious I y fo Iksl!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
Poems for China 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii art buchwaI d 
WASHINGTON--Former President Richard Nixon is preparing for his trip to the People's Republic of China. I wonder if he will write any poems for Mao Tse-tung. Here are a few for Mr. Nixon in case he doesn't have the time. 
Once again I stand at the Great Wall made from centuries of stone. Confucius says, "Those who stone wall will receive a thousand pardons." 
The Chinese greet me with open arms and throw pink rose petals at my feet. Why do all forsake me, save the Teamsters and the Red Guard? 
If winter has come to cold Peking Can David Frost be far behind? 
The wind blows across the Forbidden City The earth groans and twists while ice-laden Rivers rush down to meet the sea. A cloud crosses the sky. I wonder how much money Rabbi Korff has raised for me in Toledo? 
I sit in the Great Hall feasting on Peking duck. How good it is compared to San Clemente crow. 
I can testify to the beauty of China I can testify to the goodness of Mao I can testify to the greatness of Chou I can testify to the wisdom of Teng But I can't testify in Washington, D.C. Because my health forbids me to travel. 
Why have I come back to this strange land Shrouded in mystery and silence? Cloaked in a thousand secrets Of ten thousand years or more? Because it beats the devil out of Writing my book. 
I have seen peasants work with their hoes I have seen steelworkers work with their backs I have seen dockworkers work with their shoulders I have seen women work with their men. Yet I have not seen one person in all China Ask me what was on the 18 minutes of Rosemary's tape. 
The hawk flies across the sky Waiting to swoop down and make its kill. Trees sway in the wind and watch and wait As tiny birds sing sad songs of yesterday. So why won't the Supreme Court Give me back my personal papers? 
While the IRS tries to hnd chinks in my taxes The Chinese find only peace in my heart. 
As night falls over the Yangtze And a wolf cries out in Tibet The fires of the sun become embers And the embers become ashes. And from the ashes a great man will rise again. I'll bet you can't guess who it will be? 
***********************************~ 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
(I THINK WH&N I ASKEP 1-£'5 ABOUT UJHY trU14$ 50 lDMAK& A JOKE..) 
\ 
(lH~ JOKE HAS B£&N M4P&, AN[) II& tu!t~ BE &XP&CTING YOlJ 70 t!WHATn: eo tult/J.) 
I 



---------~--------~-­

--------------------~ 

1976 the observer 
5

louis simpson soph lit fest 
t 

I think that the object of writing is to make words disappear.' 



Louis Simpson, a Pulitzer Prize winning "To be interesting is an act of love--it may poet, distinguished biographer, and widely 
be the best thing we can do for each other. published essayist and critic, was born in 
1 would like to write poems that made 1923 in the West Indies. The son of a 
people laugh or made them want to cry, Scottish lawyer with a passion for facts and 
without their thinking that they were a Russian Atress whose nursery stories 
reading poetry. The poem would be an gave his mind a turn for fantasy which he 
experience--not just talking about life, but was never able to overcome, he begap 
life itself." writing poetry at the age of thirteen --Louis Simpson because "I was born on an island. WE were isolated. Nowadays, Jamaica ia a tourist resort, but in the twenties you might as well have been living on the moon. From the beginning I felt the strangeness of being alive." 
Simpson was educated at Munro College in Jamaica. Coming to the United States at the age of seventeen, he continued his studies at Columbia University, leaving to serve in the U.S. Army where he received a Bronze Star and two Purple Hearts. He returned to graduate in 1948, and obtained his Ph.D in 1959. 
From 1950-1955, Simpson held the position of editor with the Hobbs-Merrill Publishing Company. He later became a professor of English, teaching at Columbia University, the University of California at Berkely, and currently, the State Universi­ty of New York at Stony Brook. 
His six volumes of poetry and other writings have brought him recognition as one of America's most important younger men of letters. Among his works are The Arrivistes (1949), Good News of Death 
STORY: VIVIAN BROWN SKETCH: TOM PAULIUS 
(1955), A Dream of Governors (1959), Riverside Drive (1962) his only novel, James Hogg: A Critical Study (1962), At 
Johnathon 
Kozol: Vehemence in the face of uniformity 


"School is a consumer fraud. It advertis­es education. What it offers is indoctrina­tion. Its function is not to educate humane and decent people, but safe citizens ­manageable voters, manipulable consume­rs and, if need be, in the case of war or crisis, willing killers." So writes Jonathon Kozol. in his latest book, The Night is Dark and I am Far from Home. It is a deeply disturbing book, in which Kozol attempts to scrutinize and dissect the causes of our nation's seeming anesthesia in the face of Absolute Evil. How, exactly, he asks, does our public education render us !ncapable of comprehension, and prevention, of. the murders and atrocities that are commttted in our name? 
He sees public education as by no means inept, disordered and misconstructed. Just the opposite. "It is an ice-cold a~d superb machine ... It is only if we try to he and tell ourselves that the true purpose of a school is to inspire ethics, to provoke irreverence or to stimulate a sense of outrage at injustice and despair, that we are able to evade the fact that public school is a spectacular device, flawed beyond ques­tion, but effective beyond dreams. The problem is not that public schools do not work well, but that they do." 
A graduate of Harvard and a Rhoses Scholar, Jonathan Kozol taught in the Boston public schools in the early '60's ­only to be fired for his civil rights beliefs. He described this experience in Death at an Early Age, which won the Nationa~ ~ook Award in 1968. One year later Kozol Jotned the parents of his former students to create one of the first successful Free Schools in the nation. In the years since, he has consistently rejected academic jobs, in order to work at the grass-roots level. After speaking out beside black leaders to endorse court-ordered integration of the Boston schools in 1974, he was forced to leave his home in face of threats upon hi~ life. 
His latest book will hardly restore him to favor. It is a document of almost unabated indignaiton; and this time his target is the education of the children of the rich. Kozol believes that the slumlord's daughter ought to be obliged to know the misery and squalor, rats and stench her life is built upon. the bank director's child, the foreign investment analyst's son, ought to know well, beyond all respite and all hesitation, the barbarism that their food, tuition, clothes and charge accounts are built upon. The "privileged children of an unjust social order need to be disturbed, amazed and shaken by the consequences of the unjust privilege by which they live." . 
Kozol visited public schools in approxi­mately forty cities, coast to coast, and 
· concluded that nine-tenths of the present literature of school reform is either naive or dishonest. Innovations that amount to nothing more than "open" classrooms, gerbil cages and bright paint are insubsta­ntial. Their only function, he claims, is "to make the prison cells more pleasant -and the bars less visible." 
Kozol charges public education with sinister purpose. He insists that children do not go to school "for their own good," but for something referred to as "their nation's good." They go to school, he claims, to learn how not to interrupt the evil patterns that they see before them, how not to question and how not to doubt: to learn to vote with reasonable regularity, to kill on orders and to sleep eight hours 
Nidtolsoll mes high as 'Cuckoo' leads Oscar race 
LOS ANGELES (AP) --One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, the movie nobody wanted, and four-time loser Jack Nicholson who starred in it, moved forward as favorites for the 48th Academy Awards as nominations were announced Tuesday. 
Cuckoo's Nest took nine nominations and Nicholson was nominated as Best Actor of 1975 for his performance in it as the fast-talking ringleader of mental hospi­tal rebellion. 
Prevwusly nominated in four earlier films, Nicholson faces competition from two former Oscar winners: Walter Matthau, nominated for The Sunshine Boys, and Maximilian Schell for The Man ln the Glass Booth. 
Now the final campaigning begins, with the winners to be announced at the Los Angeles Music Center on March 29. ABC will televise the presentations. 

the End of the Open Road (1963), Selected Poems (1965), and Adventures of the Letter I (1971). His most recent work, entitled Three on the Tower, is a study of the lives and works of the poets Ezra Pound, T.S. Eliot, and William Carlos Williams. 
Louis Simpson writes of many subjects; war, love, American landscape, history. His poetry has been acclaimed for its emotional range and superb lyrical and narrative qualities. His poems about World War II are considered modern classics. The landscapes of which he writes are as much those of the mind as those of the earth. One critic comments, "So involved in the American writer's traditional search for a specifically Ameri­can mode of experience is Louis Simpson, that it is hard to remember that he was in fact born in Jamaica." Yet, he also writes of the universal experience: 
It was in the time otvilla When they put me on triai­"Tell us, what is it you do exactly To justify your existence? 
Of his writing, Sompson comments, "What I think of the art of writing is implied by the works I have written. I don't belong to any particular group or school of poets. I try to tell the truth as I see it, and in poems to do this with pleasure." 
"Most poetry is mere fantasy, most prose is merely reporting the surface of things. WE are still waiting for the poetry 
of feeling, words as common as a loaf of bread, which yet give off vibrations." 
And the people who say, 'Tell us, What is it you do exactly to justify your esixtence?' 
These idiots rule the world, 
Chekhov knew it, and yet 
I think he was happy, on his street. 
People live here ... you'd be amazed. 
"Emotional intensity--this, as far as I can tell, is what poetry consists of. A poem will move from one moment of intensity to another, and there will be a connection. This, I suppose, is where 1 part company with surrealism, and with some of my contemporaries--they don't care about the connection, don't feel a need to get a line into their work." "I think that the object of writing is to make words disappear." 
... The land is within. At the end of the open road we come to ourselves. 
Louis Simpson has been the recipient of many awards and honors, among them the 1964 Pulitzer Prize for Poetry, a Prix de Rome, Hudson REview and Guggenheim fellowships, and the Millay Award. He has been published in a variety of magazines and is active on the reading circuit. 

without-grief. They go to school to learn to be proficient at mechanical procedures, docile in the presence of all processes they do not understand, acquiescent in the presence of a seeming barbarism. "It is not so much that they learn to be cPuel people," he writes. "Rather it is, they learn it is not needful to be urgent in compassion or importunate in justice. Not positive desolation, but a genial capability for well-behaved abstention in the prese­nce of despair: this is the innocence we teach our children." 
Some may consider Kozol's book a treatise on public education, others, as a work on ethics. Many others, however, will brand it a straightforward manifesto of the most dangerous type -a real menace to the . country. It's not hard to discover why his book, so unrelenting in its attack, stimulat­es such vehement reaction. 
Kozol charges public schools with a certain type of psychological warfare. He states that students are carefully isolated from any consideration that there are any victims in the world. "To believe in victims," he says, "is to believe, as well in victimizers. It is to be forced to come inlp the presence of the whole idea that there must be oppressors in the world for there to be oppressed. It is to be forced, as well, to feel, and understand, that bad results too often have bad causes, that evil acts don't just 'occur' -like mushrooms after rain -but have most often been initiated by the will of those who stand to profit from them." 
father bill toohey 
I 
~ 
I I I j 

"The recognition of direct, explicit and 
l' 

not accidental causes and connections of j 
this kind," Kozol continues, "portends enormous danger for the conscience of the children of rich people. It is of great importance for the children of the ruli!tg class, in a divided social order such as thts, to be allowed to think of fear, starvation, sickness, in the terms of social accident or technological mistake; to think of hunger, for example, or the lack of medical care, like a season with too little rainfall, or a ,river that did not come up as high as usual this year. It is not comfortable to underst· and that the reason rivers do net rise as high as usual some years is that they have been diverted to the fields and irrigation ditches of another person in the upper meadow. It is even more disturbing to be forced to understand that oftentimes tha1 other person is no stranger, but our friend 
our next-door neighbor or our father." 
Well, that should be enough of a sampl of Kozol's thesis to convince us that hi book will not be well received behind th ivy-covered walls of our public institutio~ of higher learning. Kozol, we suspect, wtl be declared a dangerous man, and his treatise a pernicious scourge. 
Here at Notre Dame, we take some comfort in know1ng that he is talking about publl(' education, not Catholic schoola. But, deep down, something nags at us; and we know that to dismiss his challenges as totaly irrelevant for us, unworthy of some honest soul-searching, might be the most tlangerous thing of all. 

the observer Wednesday, Fe~ary 18, 1976 

Palestinian kills American in Beirut· 


BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -An expelled Palestinian student carry •. ing a pistol and two hanti·grenades assassinated an American dean and his Lebanese colleague Tues­day at the American University of Beirut. 
A university spokesman identifi ed the dead as Dean of Students Robert Najemy, 56, born in Worce­ster, Mass., in..a familv nfLebanese origin, and Dean. of En~ineering Raymond Ghosn, a 55-year-old Lebanese. Both were shot by a pistol at close range. 
In Massachusetts, two brothers of Najemy described him as a "very quiet guy, a quiet intellec­tual," who spoke fluent Arabic, Greek, German and Latin in additi­on to English. He was a graduate of Holy Cross College and was a service director for the American 
Red  Cross in  Worcester,  Mass.,  
and Bridgeport, Conn.  
The  .25-year-old  killer  took  a  

dozen university officials hostage and threatened to blow them up 

unless he got a bus or helicopter to take him to the Lebanese-Israeli border where, he said, he wanted to make a suicide raid on the Jewish state, police said. 
"He was very nervous, redfaced and sweating all the time," said one of the hostages, Ernest Conk­lin, 38, of Newton Falls, Ohio. "He had a pistol in his left hand and a 
grenade  in  his  right  hand  and  
another grenade in his belt."  
Another  expelled  student  and  

Prof. Najib Abou Haidar, a medical 
Dining hall improvement needed 
By Kevin McLean Staff Reporter 
The Student Government Food Service Commission, headed by Joe Fiorella, surveyed the service and food in Notre Dame dining halls this semester for one and a half weeks. 
Stationed at A line in North Dining Hall, commission member Mike Gassman observed, "Out of ten meals, one was rated fair to good. The others were all nega­tive." He cited cold food, waiting in line and running out of food as 
Football All-Stars to play April 25th 
by John Dllenschnelder Staff Reporter Football season is not over, at least not for the 68 inter hall football all stars who are tentatively sched­uled to play on Sunday, April 25, in Cartier Field. 
The game pitting the North Quad stars against the South Quad stars will be preceded by a contest 
between Notre Dame's girl All Stars and a team from St. Mary's. 
"It's the first time we've tried anything like this" said Elton Johnston, Chairman of the Hall Presidents Council. "But in the future we hope to incorporate it into the regular interhall football season, either in the middle, or at the end of the playing schedule." 
Johnston also said that the 
games would be an added attrac­
tion to An Tostal weekend, but the 
H.P.C. has not decided whether or not the second contest will be played in padded equipment. 
"Because of possible injuries and problems in obtaining equip­ment, the game may have to be touch instead of tackle," Johnston explained, ''but no matter what it is, a game will be scheduled." 
The All Stan teams and coaches 
for the games·were compiled at the 
end of November at a coaches 
meeting. Each coach voted on a 
player for each position, and then 
from among themselves, they sel­
ected the coaches for the all star 
teams. 
"All I had to do was call the 
coaches together," Johnston said. 
''They did all the work and kept the 
thing alive." 
Each of these players will receive a certificate during the H.P.C. meeting on March 2 naming them an interhall All Star 
JULIO'S 
NOW HAS 
PAN 
PIZZA!!! 
PHONE 232-791 

reasons for the low ratings. 
The survey included breakfast, lunch and dinner at both the North and South dining halls. Some of the points the dining halls were graded on were the food tempera­ture, the time waiting in line for food, the cleanliness of the dishes and silverware, the accuracy with which the meal corresponded with the menu, and the attitude of the cafeteria personnel. The survey also took into account the quality and quantity of these points. The survey members added their own comments as well as those of other students. 
Gassman, stated that the survey was taken without the knowledge of the dining hall management to make sure the menu was represent­ative of those served during the semester. He said the reason for the survey was to evaluate dining hall service and to point out •to the management their strengths and weaknesses. 
"The commission is sort of like Naider's Raiders," Gassman said. he also commented that the com­mission had had trouble getting a response from the dining hall management in the past. 
"We would give them some general comments about the dining hall and the management would take it with a grain of salt,'' he said. 

Gassman hopes the results of the 
survey will show the need for 
improvement in the dining halls. 
Conference to discuss racism 
(continued from page 3) 
"Income Inequality: Causes and Cures" at 4:30P.M. in the Library Auditorium, Tuesday, Feb. 24 and Harvey Cox, a professor in Harvard School of Divinity, will speak later the same day at 8 P.M. in Carroll 
Hall on ''Secularity and Seduction: the Ambiguous Role of American Religion in Social Change." 
A panel discussion will be held on Wednesday, Feb. 25 at 2:15 
P.M. in the Library Auditorium, featuring Estabrook, Thurow, Fin­lay Campwell, professor and direc­tor of the Afro-American studies Program at the University of Wis­consin and co-chairperson of the National Committee Against Rase­ism, with Gellar serving as modera­tor. 
The conference will close Wed­nesday night at 8 p.m. in Washing­ton Hall with a lecture by Campwell on "200 Years of Secret Multi-Rac­ial Battle Against Rascism." 
Bugs bite more Hoosiers 
SOUTH BEND, Ind.-Indiana had more cases of sleeping sickness per capita last summer than any state in the nation--possibly because nothing was done to control the disease, according to University of Notre Dame experts. 
Dr. George B. Craig Jr. director of Notre Dame's biology laboratory and an expert on mosquitoes, said the only known way to prevent sleeping sickness--encephalitis--is to control the mosquitoes that transmit it. But Craig said Indiana is one of only 12 states in the country without organized mosqui­to control. 
"The official Indiana attitude seems to be that encephalitis is a plague rained on us by God and we should bow our heads and accept it," he said. "In our neighboring states, Illinois and Ohio, there seem to be significant debates on which anti-mosquito techniques to use for encephalitis control. Here, we don't even debate whether control should be attempted." 

"While other states were con­
ducting active disease-control cam­
paigns, Indiana officials kept score 
and prayed for snow. •' 
Craig said he had asked the 
governor· to appoint a commission to examine last summer's epidemic and written the Indiana Depart­ment of Health, urging officials to establish an encephalitis virus lab­oratory. So far, he said there had been no response. 
Craig said he also had pushed for passage of a mosquito control bill in the 1976 legislature. The bill, he said, was aimed at establishing mosquito abatement districts for control of the insects. 
He said the best way to handle the mosquito problem would be to establish the districts and imple­ment good drainage, impound­ment filling and tree planting praCtices rather than rely on mass spraying or fogging with insecti­cides. 



Pipes Papers 
Etc. 

newstand and general store 113 w. monroE: st. 
school teacher and former Lebane­se education minister, talked the assassin into releasing his hostages unharmed and giving up to the Palestinian guerrilla police. It took them three hours of tense negotiat­ions. 
Then, in an episode dramatizing the violent atmosphere in this war-torn capital, a close friend of Ghosn darted from a crowd and opened fire on the· subdued killer with a pistol as he was being driven away, slightly wounding him in the shoulders. 
Police said soldiers from the Palestine Liberation Army returned the fire and wounded the assailant in the shoulder. 
The assailant and his attacker, identified as Joseph Cherbeka, were both driven to a guerrilla clinic by PLA troops. 
Police identified the killer as Najim Najim, a Palestinian with a Torn<>nian passport. He was in his fourthyear of engineering at the University when he was expelled during a purge of radical students 
in 1974. ··"He ·seems a little unbalanced," a university spokesman said. 
More than 100 students were expelled in the purge following recurrent unrest on the elegant pine-studded campus sprawling ac­ross 73 acres overlooking the Mediterranean. 
A group of 25 expelled Palestini­an and Lebanese students occupied two· halls· for four days but were finally evacuated by police. Anon­ymous threats were made last year against University President Sam­uel Kirkwood unless those expelled were reinstated. 
The 110-year-old university has educated many of the Arab world's professional and political leaders, including Dr. George Habash of the Marxist-oriented Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine. 
The shootings marked the worst incident in a mostly peaceful day as Lebanon continued efforts to return to normal after the civil conflict that has killed 12,000 and wrecked the economy. 
§ akey's 
OPEN 11:00 a.m.-7 DAYS A WEEK 
FEBRUARY SPECIAL 
WEDNESDAY-THURSDAY EVERY 5-7:30 p.m. 
PIZZA BUFFET 
ALL YOU CARE TO EAT PIZZA (SEVERAL KINDS) &SALADS 
1.92 PLUS TAX 
2313 Edison Rd. 289-5555 





(ollegeMaster from Fidelity Union Life lias hcen the most accepfl'<l. most popular plan on campuses all m·er America. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelity Union CoH(•geMaster 
~'ield Associate 
myour area: 
1 005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend. Ind. 
Phone 287-2327 
1;r.~~ 

. l ( ( )llc~cMal{cr
.. 



Wednesday, February 18, 1976 
the observer 
7
Took Lockheed bribe 

Italian police hunt couple in payoff scandal 
By The Associated Press before a U.S. Senate subcommittee Lockheed memorandum as the intermediary of Lockheed Italian testify under oath. But the key

have shown that the firm distribut­agent slipping $50,000 to an unna­payoffs estimated in the American 
figure, Yoshio Kodama, alleged toItalian police spread a dragnet ed $22 million in payoffs to med defense minister of Italy for company's memorandum at $1.6 
have received $7 million fromTuesday for a blueblood lawyer and individuals and officials abroad to the sale of 14 C-130 Hercules cargo million. 
Lockheed, was excused from testi­a businesswoman on arrest warra­promote aircraft sales between the planes. Two men who served as fying. Doctors said the 65-year-oldnts charging them with being late 1950's and the early 1970's. defense minister during the period Investigators profess to know right-wing political figure was suff­corruption agents in the interconti­Lockheed said $12.6 million went to little about her. Press reports that
-Christian Democrat Luigi Gui and 
ering effects of a recent stroke.
nental payoffs of Lockheed Aircraft Japan. Democratic Socialist Mario Tanassi she was a friend of President Corp. The couple was believed to The Italian arrest warrants, is­-have denied receiving the money. Giovanni Leone {before he beca­Diet members asked executives 
have left Italy. me chief of state 1971 have been of Lockheed's sales agent, Marub­
sued by State Attorney Ilario 

Gui, interior minister in the last 
denied by the president's office. eni Corp., about testimony inMartella, were against Ovidio Lef­
government, asked that he be left
In Tokyo, four executives of the Washington by former Lockheed
ebvre Dovidio di Balsorano de Investigators said they alerted
out of the cabinet formed last
firm that serves as Lockheed's Chief Operating Officer A.C. Kotc­
Clunieres, a lawyer descended border points to be on the lookout
Thursday by Christian-Democrat
Japanese sales agent denied sugg­hian that Marubeni officials had
from French nobility, and business for both Lefebvre and Mrs. Fava.
Premier Aldo Moro after the politi­
esting or handling payoffs to suggested monetary gifts to Japan­
executive Maria Fava. The warran­Both are under orders to surrender
cal opposition raised objections.
Japanese government officials as a ts, charging them with corruption, their passports until the end of the ese government officials to help 
parliamentary committee wound up Lockheed sales. Kotchian said that
were issued after raids on Lefebvr­Maria Fava headed a commercial case. 
a two-day hearin,g. part of $2 million dollars in covert
e's law firm and confiscation of firm named Com. El., unknown in The budget committee of the payments to Marubeni might havebank records. business circles but which has been lower house of the Japanese Diet,
Lockheed reports and testimony been conveyed to government offic­
Lefebvre was identified in a 1970 I mentioned in the Italian press as an or parliament, heard seven men ials. 
CAUSE needs arm wrestlers 

Entries are being taken for the CAUSE Arm Wrestling Tourna­ment. 
The object of the tournament is to raise money for the elderly of the South Bend area through CAUSE. CAUSE(cooperative activities unit­ing students and the elderly) is an organization that oversees all groups dealing with the elderly and coordinates activities. Funds raised through the contest will be used for massive renovation, paint­ing, and cleaning in area nursing homes. 
Participants may enter the con­test through their hall recreation directors. Off-campus hopefuls may apply at the hall where th~y formerly resided. The entry fee ts one dollar. 
The participants are divided into four weight categories: below 150 lbs., 150-175 lbs., 175-200 Ibs., and over 200 lbs. The competition starts at the intra-hall level. After only one entrant remains in each category in each hall, a single elimination tournament between all the halls will be held. The finals will take place during half-time of the Western Michigan game. The winner of each category will be awarded an engraved trophy. The second and third place finishers wil receive prizes from area mer­chants. 
Anyone desiring to donate to the organization, but not wishing to enter the contest, may give his donation to the Volunteer Services office on the I'll lloor of LaFortune, or mail it to Dave Walters at 1038 East Miner Street. 
''I urge you to enter and compete as soon as possible," Walters said. "The key to their future is in your hands." 

shop 100 

+: +: +: NOW OFFERING 10 & 15% 
+: j
+: _j
+: DISCOUNTS ON +: 
CASES OF WINE/liQUOR. l
EQUIPMENT : RENTAL : 1 
I

+: HOURS: 
$6.00 DAY -tt 
MON-SAT l 
$8.00 WEEKEND t 
+: 9:30-MIDNIGHT 
Freeon Wed·~·"''"".... ! 1 
:SPECIALLY
KEN'S DEN 

+:TO THE (with $15.00 minimum purchase.)
! ND-SMC
--HAIR STYLING -­

• COMMUNITY PHONE: 259-0261
MEN & WOMEN 

t ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• +•• ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER (LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA) ··············~..~~~··<IIIII
•
PHONE 255-6500 

• ·~ ....J Budweiser® 
APPOINTMENTS PREFERRED 

td 
·~ ~eagles~
tP 
·~ ~oritl 
·~ 100 CENTER COMPLEX 
·~ 
0UIUUUN·I 

.(1)
STORAGE 
TROPICAL 

··~ 
any regular
GENERAL & G IOUTIQUE. I'LANTEIIS. DOLLS. GAMES & AMUSEMENTS, FESTIVE DECOlATIVE, I'ERSONAL ITEIAS a 
OFF priced item 
NOVELTIES. DECORATIVE I'ILLOWS. WOODENWARE I IOXES .. t"t1E a • ·~ ;:j 
INCENSE IURNEIIS. CANDLES I CANDLE HOLDERS, SMt'~llte'fle .• AC; 
CESSORIES, IEDSI'IIEADS I SOFT GOODS. VAS•• ... S WI " • b IELLS, with this ad. (.,
DECOIIATIVE METALWARE. FIGUIINES I CY.i IIO«' \• ,,\XX) ·~ 
MATURAL MATERIALS, DECORATIVF ,.. ~U 1" \\)"~ 0o1ECOR. .WHITEI'OIICELAIN.DINNERW• 'l\ \\\e \O. q .~lRAMICMUGS. SEIIVICE ITEMS. GLAS• • :\et \ c...,\, • oJIINK SEIIVICE GLASS, 

BUSCH® MICHELOB® A&Eagle 
GLASSWARE, •. II\ te\\ • ~"'-SERVICE, I'LACEMATS I "-"'""""'·• 
"TAILE TOI' A\Ov_..,l(, "0"'..cl'l UTELSILS, I'OTS I I'ANS. nurn£)0• HOUSEkEEI'ING I .rt<UES, ACCESSOII'IES. GAIDEN 
R"eshmen: 
l.!::::::::=;:=====l +:CATERING 
FREE DELIVERY 
Desperately need 1 Marquette ticket. Big

WANTED Kris,
Last chance to buy a '75 [);)gbook! Ifrroney . Call Mike 8720 Here it is · Happy Valentine's D!!y to the
*Classified Ads 
'rQU'd like one, rome to Student Union. 
best rnorrmy there ever will be.
Need Riders to Pitts. this Thurs. Bill 1-3 p.m. MWF $2.00
Wanted: tickets for Western Michigan Snowball 1653 game 4GA & 2 students. Please Call Jim P. S. Sorry this is four days late.
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. O:lnoho.
9931. Found: set of keys in front of Lewis Need 4 Marquette tickets tor old alurmi · Saturday AM identify . call Britty at 232-0746 Kevin,willing to negotiate$$. Call 3258 9-12 287-8826
Management Trainee 

Thanks for the ride to the llbnlry
pm. To $14,000 FOR SALE 
Monday. Hope you're in better spirits.
Ready for a new career? We are Found: near north door to Huddle, St. 
Your pool friend. 4220
Need sMarquette tickets. Call Bleen or Maytinedrawing board 24 by30. Call Joe
interviewing for a management training Mary's Academy dass ring 1967. Call 1130.
Marion 6798 program that will allow 'rQU to earn Mike 288-1237. 

Got a question about dirinklng? Red K. $25,000 or more in 5 years Yoklile 
of Michigan State l.kliv. will have someNeed GA & student tix for Marquette representing our top team of financial Picked up broW"! ski jacket identical to my FOR SALE: Blue-gold ND Jacket $ or answers on the open discussion rreeting
badly. Please call P will barter tor drugs. call 287-6758.
specialists in Equities, Insurance, 111\ort· OWl in Fat Wally's Sal.nite with glasses ot alcoholics anonyrrous. 7:30pm Mon. gages and Tax Shelters. Send 'rQUr in pocket. Need my OWl broW"! jacket 
H!b. 23 Athletic Dept. Aud. ACNeed GA & student tix for Marquette 1968 Cbdge Charger 318, automatic
back desperately. Call Dennis or Mark
resume to: Everybody wei rome. For rrore lnforma · 
badly. Please call Pat 1654. po_,-steering. Great cond. Snow tires 
Charles M. Ne'lolbanks 8944. lion call 8809.
& Mag 11\kleels induded. $600.00. call120 W. LaSalle Suite 906 
WANTED: GA tickets for Marquette. 272-1710 or 272-4777 after 5:30pm.
South Bend, IN 46601 NOTICES Call Tom at 7781. 

Karen A. Vella of St. Mary's was theDisneyland m.trals from Mardi Gras for winner of the $25 prize at Taro RiroFOR RENT Will do typing, experienced, term papers
WANTED: 2 Marquette tlx Pl.S call sale. Call 1348. 
Restaurante at Scottsdale Mall.
manuscripts, etc. Call 233-8512
Terri 287-6638 R.imished tv.o bedroom home. Cot-rfJietely redrorated. Wall to wall Brick ranch withing walking distanct to

TYPING: 35'/jlg. Call Dan 272-5549. To Mr. R Raff:
Desperately need four Marquette tickets carpeting, draperies throughout. Special Notre Dame 2-3 bedrooms finished This should provide .,ou with visualCall 1683 deal to end of semester. 283-8722, basement automatic sprinklers, grage
Rich Man FOOr Man available at the Book entertainment on ")Our supposed boreing
283-7595, 233-1374, 272-1965. (after door, air-condition, and rrany extras
Bam. Call and reserve a ropy. 272-5520 afternoons at 111011L You forgot )'OUr
Desperately need one or 2 GA Marquette 6PM) $42,000, call 232-0780 handkerchiefs.
tickets. Call Bob 1214 

Weight Watchers of Notre Dame have a 
FOR RENT: Furnished houses, IY.o to 

lot of dead weight lying around. Meeting
Three girls need ride to lndi5lapolis, seven bedroom. Available tor Septerriler Lost . keys 511' 1067 and 2 small keys. WACKY WABBIT CL,UES 
every night at 12 midnight tor tree 
H!b. 20 or 21. call 4662. or June. call 234-9364. Reward . call 5754.
rounseling, pasta. call Mama "B" 6798. Monday's 
1·The name of the hall Is known toSo what?
Need 2-4 GA Marquette tickets. Will Pay 2 lblms tor rent $40. Call 233-1329. PERSONALS 
all. 
.,our price. Call Tom 8334. 

2-Wacky, It's said, Is In a place
LDST& FOUND Will do typing. Elcperienced term Dear Lascivious Seaet Worshipper: 
whose namesake Is dead.
Need rrany West. Mich. tixl call papers, manuscripts, etc. Call 233-8512 Reveal thyself and receive my .low 
Tuesday's
233-9841 after 10 pm Lost: Red vlnyt Bio. notebook In Blgin. Forever 'rQUrs, Bo Bo 
3-Aithough alone In his flight,Aud.. Great sentimental value. Please Greyhound Bus to Chicago. l..eiM!s main P. S. The sign 'rQU seek Gi!fl only be sho'MI 
ghosts give wacky no fright.
Need ride to Iowa City on February 20. call Mona ayt 1321. drde every Friday at Sl45. call Tom at in the privacy of my room at Bay East. 
4-The place Is really awake, but It's 
Call Julie 4220. 8338 for seat Reservation. 

not around a lake. 
Lost. Keys ~11. 1067 and 2 small keys. 

Wednesday's
Cerg, ~ug. Jim (pit-crewextraordinaire)Reward. call 5754 Village Voice with the CIA Report leaked
Need 2 GA Marquette tix. You name Listen to W SND for today's clues.
and Mike: Mickey says It's late, but
by Daniel Sd1om now at Fmdora's
price. Call 8321. 

Lost Fluid Mechanics Book & Notebook Happy Valentine's Day! The Kid.
Books 937 S. B. Ave. Reward . call Cris 3328 


the observer Wednesday, February 18, 1976
8 
leers looking toward another crucial series 
By Tom Kruczek we could beat them, expecially after coming so close on Friday," Brownschidle 
Northern Indiana isn't exactly what you reflected. would call a hot-bed of hockey interest, but The wins, however, did nothing for the for a brief moment over the past weekend Irish except keep themselves in step with one could forget that fact and simply enjoy the rest of the league. The entire league the excitement that was created by the split and the Irish are still in fifth place Michigan Tech-Notre Dame hockey games. with a 12-12-2 record, just two points 
The Irish split the series, something they behind Michigan and six points behind this have done the past five weekends, but that weeks foe, Michigan State. Tech is still could be overlooked because they came so leading the pack with 38 points, Minnesota close to sweeping the number one team in seven points back in second place. the country. The 7,371 fans who attended Notre Dame, however has a slim one the games were treated to a display of point lead over Colorado College who is hockey excellence in nearly every facet of lurking in the shadows for the Irish to slip the game-at one time or another. There up. Minnesota-Duluth is in seventh place were lapses, to be sure, but Friday and with 22 points, North Dakota and Denver Saturday showed why Michigan Tech is the are in eighth with 20, and Wisconsin is number one team in the country and why bringing up the rear with 18. the Irish are pressing forward toward a The consensus around the Irish team is home ice advantage for the play-offs. that 5 of the next 6 games will probably be 
Coach Charles (Lefty) Smith was exuber­needed to ensure a home-ice advantage for ant over the teams play and the vocal the play-offs, which open on March lOth response of the fans. "I'm really proud and 11th. with the way that the team responded after 
Smith, throughout the season has been NO's _Brian Walsh s~ored ~ro-;n his knees against Michigan Tech this past weekend butlosing that heart-breaker Friday night remarking how unusual a year it has been ~he lrash ho~e to brmg M1ch1gan State to its knees this weekend as they entertai~ the(7-6). They could have folded Saturday, but for the WCHA, and the last weekend p~rt~ns Fraday and Saturdav night. (Photo by Tom Paulius)they didn't and that showed a lot of proved that point conclusively. Usually at 

~1chtg~n St11:te should have had an easy Smith answered this question a numbercharacter and pride." 
the end of the season, when a first division ttme of_tt a~amst North Dakota; but ended of weeks ago and his answer is as good nowSmith expressed that he was not team plays a squad in the second division, up g~~mg hc~ed 6-2 the ~~st mght, before as it was then. "You can't predict what is 

re?at?tng thetr respectabtlt~y on_ Satu:da~. going to happen. No one is out of the race surprised with the way that the team came the first division team will sweep in 
back, following the Friday defeat. Jack accordance with the cream-rising-to-the­M~ch1gan also had ~tough ttme tn thetr wm at all and just all depends on what team isBrownschidle and Allen Karsnia both top principle. Did it happen this past Fnd~y, before gett_mg be~t on Saturd~Y-. psychologically ready to play two games inechoed their coach. with Karsnia stating, weekend? 

Thts year, there IS nothm~ for c_er~am m just over 24 hours. The teague this yearthat ''we were really psyched up and we Not at all. The Irish, by all logical the WCHA. Jack Brownschtdle satd tt best sure is screwy."
knew that we could beat them." Brown­standards should have lost both ends of the 

when he_ r~marked, "!~ seems lik~ we've The madness resumes this weekendschidle felt that if anyone came out flat on series. Minnesota played Denver, and the been splttt1?g for~ver. And_ that IS what against the very physical Michigan StateSaturday, it was Tech and not the Irish. 
Gophers just won Friday night in overtime, the le?gue IS saymg too. W11l the cream Spartans. Face-off is at 7:30 P.M. both"We played well Friday, and we knew that but got beat the following evening. 

ever r1se to the top this year? nights. 


*Observer 
Sports 
Notre Dame Sailing Club prepares for coming races 
The Notre Dame Sailing Club interested in sailing on any level is started its spring semester activit­welcome to attend. ies with the New Officers Banquet, This past weekend the Notre 
which was held January 24. The Dame Sailing Club journeyed to new officers elected were Bill Toledo, Ohio for the Midwest 
Ryan. Commodore; Paul Makielski, Collegiate Sailing Association mid­Racing Team Captain; Lyle Gal­winter meeting. At the meeting livan, Vice Commodore; Bill Kost­Bruce Marek stepped down as 
off, Rear Commodore; Meme Han­Commodore of the M.C.S.A. while son, Treasurer; and Lory Kerger, John Goodill was elected as the Secretary. John Goodill won the Race Team Chairman for the 
Crew of the Year Award and former upcoming year. As Race Team Commodore Jon Makielski was Chairman Goodill will be concerned given a life membership. The with all regatta scheduling, boat Sailing Club holds regular meet­
trailering, boat damage, and other ings every Wednesday at 6:30 in things related to racing. room 204 of the Engineering Buil­Also at the meeting, Paul Makie­
ding. The club is now giving lski, the Club's Race Team Captain classroom sailing lessons. The scheduled this year's regattas. the lessons are run by Bruce Marek highlights of this year's schedule 
after the regular meetings. Anyone include the upcoming Notre Dame Icebreaker Regatta on March 6 and 
7 and the Midwest Championship to be held at Notre Dame on May 1 
Irish 8th 
and 2. Spring Sailing Schedule by The Associated Press March 6&7 Notre Dame Icebreaker 
1. Indiana 60 21-0 1,254 
Regatta2.Marquette 19-1 1,064 
March 27&28 at Southern Illinois 3. N. Carolina 20-2 996 
April 3&4 at Kenyon, at Indiana 4. Rutgers 1 21-0 815 
Seminar 5. UCLA 1 19-3 758 
April9-11 at Purdue, the Kennedy6. Nev.-L.V. 1 24-1 613 
Cup7. Maryland 18-4 601 
April17&18 at Ohio State 8. Notre Dame 17-4 403 
April 24&25 at Toledo, Area "A" 9. Tennessee 17-3 348 
Elims at Michigan10. Alabama 17-3 338 
May 1&2 Midwest Champs at 11. Washington 19-3 310 
Notre Dame 12. N.C. St. 18-4 219 
May8&9 Mens; Wisconsin, Wom­13. Cincinnati 18-3 172 
en's; Ohio Wesleyan, at Michigan14. Missouri 20-3 165 
State 15. Michigan 16-5 134 
May 15&16 Team Champs at 16. St. John's 18-3 55 
Wisconsin 17. W. Michigan 19-1 35 
May 20-29 Nationals at Kings18. Virginia Tech 19-4 31 
Point 19. Louisville 17-4 29 
June 15&16 Women's Champs at 20. Centenary ~0-4 19 
Coast Guard, Conn. 

Farley, Lyons victors in interha/1 
the ball, partly due to Lyons' points. 11 in the second half. 
by Eileen O'Grady ward, led the scoring attack with 15 
excellent man-to-man defense. But Farley won out in the end on 
H~lene Gorman led their offense Women's Interhall Basketball a basket scored by freshman Mary w1th _some accurate outside shots, but It wasn't enough to control
started their play-offs Sunday as Hadlock, who racked up 10 points Lyons.
top ranked Farley took on third in all and was the high scorer for 
place Walsh, and second place Farley. Farley also put on a very With these two losses, Walsh 
Lyons played Lewis. effective half court press for the and Lewis are eliminated from the play-offs, and Farley and Lyons will 
Walsh and Lyons, both tied for entire second. half. second place after the regular 
play each other for the champion­ship on Feb. 22.
season, played a play-off game last Lyons 37 Lewis 17 
week establishing Lyons in second 
place and Walsh in third. Breen­
Phillips and Farley ( 1) were already 
eliminated from the play-offs after 
placing fifth and sixth in the 
regular season. 



