Reservations for travel should be finalized soon 
by Mike Moses Staff Reporter 
Students desiring to travel by plane this holiday should already have their reservations made; and if not, they should make them as soon as _possible. Planes leaving South Bend and Chicago in Decem· ber are filling up rapidly at both United and North Central airlines. 
Return flights with United and North Central to South Bend and Chicago are heavily booked for Jan. 
17. the dav when most students will be returni.ng to Notre Dame and St. Mary's. There are only a few seats still available on certain flights that day. 
Some students traveling by plane this holiday have taken advantage of the ''freedom fares,'' a seven to 30 day excursion at 20 percent off the regular coach fare. A passen­ger on one of these round-trip flights must spend at least seven, but not more than 30 days (not including the day of initial depar­ture) at his chosen destination. However, for these flights, reserva­tions must be made and tickets bought at least 14 days in advance. 

Anyone going to New York, New Jersey, Connecticut or Massachu­setts this Christmas can take the Amtrak with other students at a reduced rate. 
Forms may be picked up in the Student Activities Office inLaFor­tune todav or tomorrow, or in the Senior Chiss Office in the basement of LaFortune. tomorrow between 2:30p.m. and Sp.m. Money should be deposited at that time. After tomorrow, anyone still wishing to take the Amtrak should call Bob Grant at 3183. 
The Amtrak will leave South Bend on Dec. 21 at S:OS p.m., arriving in New York City at 12:15 
p.m. Dec. 22. The return trip leaves New York at 6:15p.m., Jan. 
16. and arrives in South Bend at 
1:25 p.m.. Jan 17. 
Major stops (listed here with their round trip fares) include Buffalo ($40). Rochester ($44.50), Syracuse ($53), Albany ($65), and New York ($78). These prices represent a 25 "1o discount off the regular fare. 
According to Bob Grant, who organized the trip, there will be a party the night before departure from South Bend for all the people who are going on the trip. It will be held in Darby's Place on Dec. 20 at 9 p.m. 
In addition, Amtrak may possibly provide a group meal in the dining car. also at a reduced rate. So far, 110 students have signed up for the trip. 
T,Pe Pittsburgh Club is sponsor­ing a bus to and from Pittsburgh for the Christmas break. The roundtrip is $30 ($27 for members), and one way is $20 (for members and non-members alike). 

The bus leaves Notre Dame and St. Mary's on Dec. 21, at 1 p.m., and leaves Pittsburgh on Jan. 17 from the Greyhound Terminal, also at 1 p.m. Sign-ups are in room 2C of LaFortune this Sunday at 6:30 p.m. 
The Cleveland Club is also chartering a bus for the break. Round-trip fare is $20 ($23 for non-members); one way is $12 ($14 for non-members). The bus leaves Notre Dame and St. Mary's on Dec. 21 at 1 p.m. It leaves Cleveland on Jan. 17 from the Greyhound term­inal at 6 p.m., and from Exit 9 of the Ohio Turnpike at 6:30 p.m. Sign-ups are in the Grace Hall pit this Sunday from 6:30 p.m. to 7 p.m., and in the lobby of LeMans from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. For additional information, call Dave at 3805. Mike at 1694. or Debbie a[ 4-4729. 
The Student Union had sign-ups after Thanksgiving to test student ~nter~st in a bus to O'Hare Airport, tn Chtcago. Only 16 people signed up, however. This was little over half the number that would have been needed to charter a bus according to Greg Lang. assistan; services commissioner. Therefore the program was dropped. 


The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XI, No. 62 Thursday, December 9, 1976 

Brademas gets Democratic whip, Rhodes re-elected GOP leader 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Both Demo­conference members themselves Tongsun Park, a Korean business­
crats and Republicans completed vote to close them. 
man, became an issue in Brade­
their organizing for the new con­
Brademas succeeds Rep. John J. mas' latest race for re-election. The 
gressional session that begins Jan. McFall of California, who was 
contributions, given at intervals 4, yesterday. defeated in the race for majority since 1970 totaled $5,150. Democrats chose Rep. John leader. 
Brademas has said the contribu­Brademas of Indiana as their whip, The whip is appointed by the two 
tions were reported and the records 
the third-ranked post in the major­
top leaders. His principle respon­made public since passage of a law 
ity leadership. sibilities are keeping members . requiring such disclosure. He said Republicans re-elected their top informed legislation, rounding his with
on acquaintance Park was leaders, who include John J. 
up votes and reporting to the entirely social and that he had no Rhodes of Arizona in the top post of leaders on the prospects for pas­
knowledge of any connection Park the GOP minority in the House. 
sage of legislation. had with the South Korean govern­
Others are Republican whip Robert A graduate of Harvard and ment. Michel of lllinios and GOP confer­Oxford Universities, widely travel­Brademas also said he has been ence chairman John B. Anderson, 
led, Brademas, 49. has been called a consistent congressional critic of of lllinios. 
one 0f Congress' most eligible the present South Korean regime.
By 129 to 92, the House Demo­bachelors. 
accused of repressive tactics against 
crats approved a proposal calling Campaign contributions by political opponents.for Senate-House legislative con­ference meetings to be held in open session unless the House, by 
Dining hall to replace 
roll-call vote, decides they should be closesd. 
dish washing machine 
Presently. such sessions, at which a final congressional version by Alicia Denefe of major legislation is drafted, are Staff Reporter 
. open to the public exce!>t when the 
Director of Food Services Ed­mund Price announced that in the North Dining Hall the present dish machine would be replaced with 



Air defense systems upgrading 
two new ones. "It will cost less to 

operate," said Price, "and will be BRUSSELS, Belgium [AP] -De­Warning and Control System Pact nattons navt: about 4,QOO much more economical." fense ministers of the North Atlan· AWACS, would consist of 27 combat planes. An advantage to this new ma­tic alliance agreed yesterday that Boeing 707 jets converted into "The increased range and pay­chine is that it can be quickly filled they need to upgrade their aging radar command planes. The first load of their air power has provided with dishes right off the trays and air defense systems. But West planes probably would not begin them with a deep penetration can have them washed, dried and 
German political problems delayed operating in Europe until 1981, capability," the communique said. sanitized in about two minutes. a final decision on an American­even if all 15 NATO members ''The mobility, firepower and logis­North Dining Hall Manager proposed $2.5 billion airborne early approve the deal by next spring tic support of Warsaw Pact ground Laurence Aronson noted that re­warning system. and take the first steps toward force units have been increase<! placing the old machine, which was 
A communique at the end of the funding it. substantially." installed in 195 7, will make food two-day NATO meeting said "fi­The West Germans issued a The NATO ministers agreed that service operations "much more nancial aspects" would be taken up statement saying they could not "real annual increases in defens·~ efficient.'' by experts in January with a final commit themselves to AWAC~ expenditure" were required to The installation of the new decision left up to the defense until Chancellor Helnut Schmidt offset rising Soviet strength. machines will not cut down on the ministers. forms his new government and Figures released by NATO said number of student employees." 
Joseph Luns, the alliance's se­parliamentary committees are in U.S. defense spending would go up "There are certain areas where we cretary general, said "a slight place. That could take unti' $8.1 billion this year, to $99.0H will need less workers," said possibility" remained that the sys­February. billion. The figures showed that Aronson, "but we have no plan of tem would not be adopted. But In trying to sell the planes, tht ten of the allies were increasin~ cutting down on the number of 

agreed upon by NATO ministers 
U.S. Defense Secretary Dcnald Ford administration has agreed tl theirs by $658 million total · student employees." Runsfeld said he was "very encour­various improvements and modifi· considerably less than the rate of Price agreed that ''there will be aged" by the outcome of the cations while cutting costs some· inflation. no significant change in student meeting. what. It has also promised that ur The United States continued its employment." Both Price and Ar­
"There was a very real recogni­to 25 percent of the work would bt effort at the NATO meeting to onson commented that they liked to tion of the correctness of the done by European nations. bring Spain closer to the alliance. have students employed at the military authorities' judgment that The planes are designed to Secretary of State Henry A. dining halls. "We have more 
an airborne early warning control detect enemy air and missle attacks Kissinger was expected to rein­students employed than last year," system is, in fact, a necessity," and to direct allied air attac::s force the effort at a two-day said Price, "and if there is an Rumsfeld told a news conference. against enemy planes and ground meeting of foreign ministers that opportunity, we will hire more next 
The system called the Airborne forces. The Soviet-led Warsaw begins today. year." 
St. Mary's juniors took part in the traditional Christmas "animal walk" last night. See story on page 5. (photo by 
Dominick Yocius) 


~---~------------­
I 
r 
~ 
I 
r 
[ 
t l 
2 

the observer Thursday, December 9, 1976 
,_--News Briefs--­

Soviets seek trade 
MOSCOW--The Soviets are sending strong signals to Washington during the White House transition period that they want to rekindle dampened trade relations despite Kremlin assertions not long ago that Russia can thrive without American business. ' 
t=--~==-==-_-::::--==:::::-=:--==-=====-=-==::-::-:==========National 
ERA passage likely 
INDIANAPOLIS--The Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) stan~~ a ."'\·cr~· g_ood" chance of passing in the next s~s~ton oi the lndtana general assembly, the president ot the Indtanapolis branch of the National Organ­ization of women (NOW) predicts. 
--On Campus Toda~/-­
10 a.m.­5 p.m.­
10 a.m.­5 p.m.­
12 noon­
12:15 p.m.­
4:30p.m. 7 p.m.­
8 p.m.­8 p.m.· 

art sale, ceramic christmas sale, great hall, O'shaughnessy hall. 
art show, by anderson and nakashima, isis gallery. 
colloquium, ·'black studies as an intellectual enterprise" by james stewart, nd.d, sponsored by the center for the study of man, room 1132 library. 
daily advent mass, celebrated by rev. robert griffin, Iafortune ballroom. 
ceremony, army rotc fall awards ceremony, stepan center. 
lecture, "1ohn grandisson, bishop of exeter cathe­dral and 14th century patron of the arts" by dean a. 
porter, n d , art gallery.  
concert, theater.  snlC  music  department  concert,  little  
play,  "a  delicate  balance"  by  edward  albee,  

sponsored by nd/smc theater, o'laughlin aud. 
Legislative process forum to be conducted at YWCA 
A public forum on citizen in­volvement and effectiveness in the legislative process will take plalc at the South Bend YWCA. 
A film. "How to Win Votes and Influence Legislation,.. will be shown followed by a panel discus­sion which will expand on ideas and information presented in the film. Panelists will be Representative Richard C. Bodine, former legislat­or Jesse Dickinson. lobbvist J,)hn Frick and humanists Shc.rrv Clark 
and  Roy  Schreiber.  Eugenia  
Braboy will  moderate  the  discu!>­ 
sion.  

Following the panel discussion the audience will be divided into 
(*The Observe~1 
Night Editor: Bob Brink Asst. Night Editor: Leigh Tun­akan, Jack D' Aurora Editorial layout: Drew Bauer Sports layout: Fred Herbst Typists: Gwen Coleman, Sue Shellenbarger, Kathy Egbert Asst. E.M.T.: Stephanie Urillo E.M.T.: Morey Blinder Day Editor: Mary Mungovan Copy Reader: Barb Langhenry Ad layout: Tom Walrath Photographer:Dominck Yocius 
Nancy, Thanks for not turning me away F H. Runt-Will this help your 
lCindy, popularity? Thanks for all the help. J 
T ht· ()b,l'r\t·r "puhll'ht>d Monday through f fl(ldv and "-t'l'kly dunng tht· 'umnwr "''"on. Px<t•pt dunng tht> Pxam ..md va< at10n pPnod'i The Ob,f'rwr 1~ publ"hed by ~tudPnl'i of tht• l nl''''f'>lt\ ot t--oiJtrf' DamP and St Mar\'' College Sub<>cnptlon'i mav lw purcha,t>d for $20 pt>r yPar ($10 pt>r sPmP'>IPr) from Tht> Ob'>Pr·· Vt'r. Box Q. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 461~6 St>c.ond class po\tagP pa1d, Notrt> Dame. Indiana 46556 
Tht> ObsPrver is a membPr of the Assoc tated PrPss All rPproductton nght\ arP re>Prved 
I; 

small groups to continue the dis­cussion with a panelist and a discu~sion facilitator. 
The event is co-sponsored bv the League of Women Voters,· the Urban League Guild. INPIRG. the YWCA and the Women's Political Caucus. All interested persons are encouraged to attend. 
Freshmen to be permitted to have cars on campus 
by Joe Gill Staff Reporter 
Freshmen will be allowed to 
bring cars back to campus for the 
second semester provided they 
have a 2.0 GPA, James Roemer, 
dean of students, said yesterday. 
Roemer cited the work of the 
Freshman Advisory Council under 
Chairman Kurt Hench as responsi­
ble for the change. 
Hench said there were two 
problems the council had to resolve 
before presenting the proposal. 
The first was ''whether or not the 
freshmen could handle it" and the 
second "if there was enough space 
available for the extra cars.'' 
In a letter to Bro. Just Paczesny, 
vice-president of student affairs. 
Hench noted that the "University 
policy which prohibits cars for the 
first semester is due to the tremen­
dous adjustment to college life," 
and suggested that "this adjust-
Fallout fashions hit market 
The latest apparel in nuclear fallout fashions is a synthetic fiber suit called NucleClean, designed and marketed by former nuclear engineer Marlin Ebert of Liver­more. California. 
Ebert said growing public con­cern over the hazards of nuclear radiation from weapons or nuclear power plants prompted him to design what he calls a ·'radiation hazard emergency personal anti­contamination kit." For $16.50 , it includes a respirator. a pair of overalls, gloves, boots, mask and special towels and detergent spon­ges for decontamination. 
"What people don't realize is that they can handle fallout. like many other forms of contamina­tion." Ebert comments. "It's a really super garment," he added, "and with the particle respirator it will keep you in good shape... 
He said the suit is made of 
DuPont Tyvek, a material with 
smaller "pores" than conventional 
clothing. Ebert stated he hopes to 
sell to the same people who buy 
emergency foodstuffs for their 
fallout shelters. Other potential 
customers included the armed for­
ces and the Defense Civil Prepar­
edness Agency. 

Now interviewingsophomoresfor management opportunities 
The United States Army is inter­
viewing sophomores for future positions 
as Army officers. 

Applicants are required to participate 
in a six-week summer program at Fort 
Knox, Ky., to qualify for college ROTC 
courses next yPar. Pay for the six weeks 
is nearly $500, plus travel, I:Oom and 
board. 

Students who complete the summer 
training and enter ROTC as juniors will 
accept active duty and reserve obliga­
tions upon graduation. 
For an interview appointment, contact: 
Captain John J. MacNeill 
283-7332 
I 

ment is completed by the begin­ning of the second semester.'' 
Secondly, Hench said the Uni­versity "could easily accomodate the increased number of cars" and cited similar changes in 1973-7 4 and 1974-75 that resulted in only 200 to 215 freshmen registering cars after the midsemester break. 
He also noted the problems that many freshmen had getting trans portation home due to the late scheduling of exams, when "their usual source of transportation may have already left." 
Paczesny commented that he "acted upon the proposals pre­sented by Dean Hofman and the freshmen'' in implementing this new policy. 
LL1 NO
I 

DELICATE
I­
BALANCE 

Edward Albee's portrait of disintegrating love. 
SMC 
Dec. 9,10,11
THEATRE 

at8:00 p.m. O'Laughlin All seats $2.50 ($2 Std-Fac-Staff) 
Auditorium 
Phone: 284-4167 


Passport Inn 
5018 UNIVERSITY BLVD, W. 
JACKSONVILLE. FLA. 3221h 1904) 731 0800 
GATOR BOWL SPECIAL $18.00 (plus tax)-Double Occ. Mail Reservations Requests with $18 Dep. as soon as possible 10 MINUTES TO GATOR BOWL 

SPECIAL HOLlO A Y RATES FOR NO, SMC STUDENTS AND FACULTY!! 
Rent a car for round-trip from South Bend and return for less than half-price! $50 per week, $.16 per mile 
(you pay for gas). Round up your friends to make a full car and end enjoy the holidays at low cost! Call or stop by to get full details and rese.-ve your late-model Hertz car. 
Phone: 232-5871 

Hertz Rent-a-Car 710 N. Niles Ave. South Bend 
AN TOSTAL 
Organizational Meeting Jan. 25, 1977 -9pm LaFortune Ballroom 

Will FARAH FAWCETT Be This Year's SPECIAL GUEST??? 
Everyone is welcome. 
---~ ~ ---------------..----------~~-----......... 
Thursday, December 9, 1976 the observer 
Comparison of college security forces made 

women's dorms use the system,by Bob Mader which has one magnetic code for
Executive Editor 

each building, and two men's dorms and the law school all
EDITOR'S NOTE: This is the 
second of a two-part series probing 
located close to Notre Dame Ave. the security procedures on various 
use the system The University is looking into a
Indiana campuses. Today's article discusses the security forces vs. the a mag­
system which would affix rapist. netic strip onto the back of the current student identification card, 
A recent court case in which a thereby eliminating the need for a female law student at Catholic separate Detex card. University in Washington, D.C. At Valparaiso women's dorms was raped and subsuquently was are locked at certain hours. Under­awarded damages for negligence class dorms have "hours" and no against the university has many keys are given out unless the university officials confused as to student ahs a valid reason for not the stat~ of the law. But while being in on time. Upperclass administrators are confused about women are given keys. Men's their legal liabilities in rape cases, dorms are always unlocked. At St. they and their security personnel Mary's, access to the dorms is are sure of themselves when it limited to one main door at each c·omes to keeping the bad guys off dorm at night, which is monitored campus. by a hall staff member all night. 
Indiana University at Bloomington 
has a conventional key system,
*
Observer 
which is locked up by the hall staff.
Insight 

Police are not permitted into the dormitory unless resppnding to a call. At Purdue, some halls are Notre. Dame awai~s, as do ~ther universities, a court decision as to the responsibility its
Because of the high crime rate in locked up at some secunty force has m preventmg rape. 
Washington, Georgetown has one night and are fohoto by Dominick Yocius) 
not, depending on the hall govern­of the most sophisticated secutity Mitch Robuck characterized the Valparaiso has never had a rape on drove through the campus and
ment.

systems in the country. The Chron­students as "reserved and cooper­the campus. Prudue had two rapes yelled at the women to· 'come get it icle of Higher Education reports. Campus Security Forces ative." last year, but none this year. Notre on," Kovatch said. Valparaiso'sStudents use invisibly coded plastic 
Ball State has 32 university Dame had one student raped this Kruger also said that outsiders cards to get into-their residence police and 20 cadets who are year, but at an off-campus location. occasionally drive through campusPurdue, I.U. Bloomington, Notrehalls at night. When the student 
mainly from the criminal justice I. U. Indiannapolis has had three yelling obscenities at the women, inserts the card in a slot by the napolis, Ball State, and Valparaiso program. I.U. lndiannapolis has 40 rapes in the past four years, their and both Notre Dame and Purdue door. an electric sensor reads the has one man on duty at night, who police, 22 guards, and 12 cadets. police chief reported, and two of reported several incidents of 'flash-
Dame, St. Mary's, I.U. Indian­
code number of the card and sends 
patrols in the car part of the time At Notre Dame, access to the the offenders were caught. ers' both on and off campus. it to computer by cable. If the and spends the rest of _his time in campus by car is controlled by Most of the problems, however, I. U. Indianapolis has the peculiar 
a computer approves the number, it 
gatehouses at the entrance roads. are with outsiders who do less than problem of having to patrol two sends back an unlocking signal. a The sectirity chiefs did not agree It is, however, farily easy to walk rape the women students. St. miles of tunnels connecting their light comes on, and the student on the value of lighting. Colonel onto campus. Roads at St. Mary's Mary's had one incident with a van hospital complex and several ac-
the securitv office. 
may open the door. 
Spurgon Davenport, police chief at are open, Kovatch noted, but it is full of high school age youths who [continued on page 7]Students use the same cards to 
I. U. Indiannapolis-, and Purdue's very difficult for a person to walk 
nazznazznazznazznazznazznazznQ)get their meals. check books out of 
Donald E. Jones said their schools onto campus undetected because of -Nthe library. and ride the campus have good lighting systems which the layout of the school's grounds.. N Nshuttlebus. The cards also have are definitely a deterrent to crimin­Security officers have little trouble · als. George Huntington, police
solor photographs for human spotting suspicious cars, though N = guards. Soon all faculty and em­chief at I.U. Bloomington, said, Kovatch said. "Notre Dame stu­~ Help r~surrect the ~ ployees will have cards, too. however, that he finds no strong dents either have really nice cars or N N
The loss of a key can pose a statistical correlation between junkers just to get them around," a keyproblem in conventional he said. "A jacked-up car with a ~ nazz s
lighting and preventing rapes.
svstem, but when a student loses Perhaps the most important con­garter belt hanging from the rear 
h.is card at Georgetown, the Chron­·N N
view mirror is suspicious." 
sideration for a security force is the
icle reports, his code number is Notre Dame, St. Mary's and I.U. N N
size and location of the campus. 
simply deleted from the computer Valparaiso is a "bedroom com­lndiannapolis have escort services ~ = 
list. When a senior class graduates, for women. an emer­c Q)
munity" of middle and upper-mid­Purdue has 
their numbers are taken out of the N N
gency phone system across the
dle class executives and profes­
computer and their cards become N N
sionals, some of whom commute as campus. Campus police react im­souvenirs. 
far as Chicago daily. Up until ten mediately whenever a phone is ~ = 
The Georgetown system also years ago, Valparaiso had no picked up, Jones said, especially c ~ 
shows which doors are open so that when no one comes on the other N N
blacks, and there is virtually no
manpower which previously had to end. N N
blue collar or unskilled labor in thebe used for patrols can now be sent city. Consequently, Valparaiso U­The problem a campus has with ~ we need musicians staff·and other = immediately to check on a door that niversity has only one guard on preventing rapes is determined by
is open. ~ creative people to make the ~ 
dutv for each shift. Security Chief the size of the communitv. PPaceful 
At least once an hour a campus police ofticial checks on the status ~ ~ nazz ~ of the 47 doors which are operated 
C what it should be!!! ~ 
by the door-lock mechanism. In a N N conventional door-locking mechan­
~ please call 7757 ~ 
ism, a student could prop a door open with a beer can and the open 
Czzeuzzeuzzeuzzeuzzeuzzeuzzeu Q)
door would not be detected until a patrolling guard discovered it. With the computerized system, the fact that the door is open is immediately flashed on a display screen and the computer makes a written note of time and location. 
Similar Systems in Other Schools 
Ball State University in Muncie, Indiana, is looking into a similar 
CHRISTMAS
system, according ot Thomas Os­
borne, B.S. U .'s chief or police. 
WILL BE HERE SOONER THAN
"Catholic Univeristy has a Johnson 
JC 800 computer system that their 
security systems are tied into," YOU THINK···· SO DO YOUR 
Osborne pointed out. Ball State has 
the same computer system, he CHRISTMAS SHOPPING AT THE 
said, and currently funding has 
been provided and work is under 
way to connect the university's 
security. systems with the compu­
CHRISTMAS Two-Year Scholarships 
ter. "The computer will provide security for areas which need security to provent or announce unauthorized entry," Osborne 
BAZAAR Now Available 
said. 
Arthur Pears, Notre Dame di­
rector of security, remarked that The Navy will pay the tuition and furnish books 
the university has door alarms at plus $100 a month subsistence for your Junior and 
Dec. 7,8,& 9 
the art gallery, credit union, cash­Senior Years at college, if you can qualify for one ier's office and garage, all places of our special 2-year NROTC Scholarship pro­
where nobody normally enters 
grams. For further information, no obligation of
in LeMans Lobby
during the night. Notre Dame 
course, call 283-6442. 

students use a mangetically coded 
Spons~ned by SMC Sociai"Commission 
Detex card to enter eight buildings 
at night. All but one of the 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Business Manager Tom Fronczak Advertising Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor Tony Chifari Production Manager Martha L Fanning 
--~--~~-­

"*The Observer 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556~ Phones: (219) 283-8661 [NO] (219) 284-5365 [SMC] 
EDITORIAl BOARD 

Thomas O'Neil  ·Editor-in-Chief  
Dan Sanchez  Managing Editor  
Chris Smith  Asst. Managing Ed.  
Cregg Bangs  Executive Editor  
Val Zurblis  Executive Editor  
Pat Hanifin  Editorial Editor  
Bob Mader  Exec. News Editor  
Maureen Flynn  Campus Editor  
Marti Hogan  St. Mary's Editor  
Don Reimer  Copy Editor  
Tim O'Reiley  Features Editor  
Fred Herbst  Sports Editor  

Thursday, December 9, 1976 
SLC decay due to basic problems 
Last Tuesday was the second time in as two years ago. Bro. Just Paczesny confes­man:y meetings that the Student life ses that he feels initmidated by the Council failed to meet officially because it prescence of the Observer reporter, while lacked a quorum. Although all the student other members of the council claim they 
representatives and most of the admini­fell intimidated by the prescence of Br. 
strators showed up for both meetings, some faculty representatives did not. 
The SI..C attendance problem stems from a larger problem, a lack of interest on the part of its members. Since this SI..C's tenure began last scjlool year, the council has discussed little of significance and has done even less. Some major student life concerns such as the recent pensions due to parietals and drinking violations, or even the riot earlier this semester have gone completely unmentioned, while other matters such as tne WSND affair or Gassman's cable TV proposal were men­tioned only briefly and quickly passed over. They have spent most of their meeting time debating the purpose of their existence-and still do not know what it is. 
The SI.C was founded in 1967 as a forum for student, administration and faculty opinion on student life. Whether it actually possesses policy-making authority or merely exists as an advisory board to the administration and-or the Board of Trus­tees is unclear. What clear authority it has, however, is at least that which Br. Just and Dean Roemer admit it has: namely, an authoritative voice in the realm of rules and regulations goveming student life,· subject to Fr. Hesburgh's approval. If the SI..C would consider doing anything, it might consider work:.ng to clarify those standing rules and regulations, especially the parietals rule. 
The lack of concrete discussion, and the resulting lack of accomplishments, are the result, some claim, of the timidity ,,f some of its members. The SI..C may sllll feel intimidated by Hesburgh's veto fo their last attempt to clarify the sexuality rule Just. Bro. Just's proposed solution to the whole problem is to close the first half of SI..C meetins;!s to public access. 
Closing the SI..C is not the solution. The SI..C members are representatives of the university community. They should not be afraid to let the community know what they are doing (or not doing.) Closing the doors would create suspicion and perhaps even administrative dominance, as been the alleged weakness of the academic council. If the SI.C believes they need periods of off-the-record discussion in special situa­tions, they could use a brief executive session which are closed to the public. 
· The SI..C's decay has been reflected in how they have been treated by others. Fr. Burtchaell recently ignored the council when he set up the official • university evaluation of co-education. Also , al­though it may have been the result of poor planning or bad weather, students side­stepped the recent Sl.C-sponsored off­campus Tuwn Meeting. Aside from the media and student representatives, only one student attended the meeting, and he was only there to get a ride home from The Observer reporter. 
The Student life Council did an effective job in past years, and was a leader in improving student life here. The student representatives cannot be blamed for the attendance problem this year. They can, however, be partly blamed for its under­lying misdirection and inefficiency. If they would work to solve these basic problems, the attendance problem would solve itself. As it stands, t.he lack of direction has led to a lack of attendance. It has amounted to a lack of leadership. 
........ . ·.....· . 

Editoral 

Laundry and Cable TV 
The administration is considering two proposals 
recently presented by Notre Dame's student govern­
ment. One of them, the laundry proposal, is expected to 
be decided upon today by Bro. Just Paczesny 
Vice-President for Student Affairs. The second, SBP 
Mike Gassman's campus wide (and costly) cable TV 
proposal, will probably linger on the desks of the 
administrators a little longer. 
It is our hope that Bro. Just will announce the 
implementation of the laundry proposal in his 
up-coming statement. The proposal calls for the 
installment of washers and dryers for the use of 
on-campus male students. The new service will provide 
these students with an inexpensive alternative for 
doing excess laundry. Altbough it is difficult to 
determine whether the university will gain or lose 
money as ~ resut of the new service, it should accept it 
to try to keep student laundry costs at a minimum. 
Regarding Gassman's Cable TV proposal, and its 
awesome price tag of $500,000, the University should 
determine its final opinion on the basis of services vs. 
cost. The proposal has vast educational potential. This 
potential, coupled with Cable TV's recreational 
advantages would be far more valuable than $500,000. 
If the University _can find the money, the proposal 
should be given a go-ahead. 
Mike Gassman and his staff should be commended 
for the organization and professionalism they displayed 
researching and pressing these proposals. The admini­
stration should seriouslyconsider them and implement 
them if they are financialli feasible. 
opinion 

Men do not I ive on bread aJone 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-anne blandford 
I wish tu reply brietly to 1\.k-;­sieurs Allen':·, and D'Aurora's re­marks supporting the Hunger Co­alition. 
Since you, Mr. Allen and Mr. D'Aurora, are "pragma' .r ideal­ists" and not pure idealists, I assume you can respond to prac­tical question about vour ideals. 
First, do you wish to eliminate starvation or malnutrition? The adage "Men do not live on bread alone" is literally true. We need complete proteins, wltich are not supplied in every grain. Does the World l.unger Coalition seek to change .Jitures' poor nutrition by forcing ·he'll to eat Textured Vegetable l •otein (processed soy­beans), feed babies milk, utilize all resources available, and control their popul•. lion growth Does the Coalition intend to feed people in times of drought and other natural disasters or does it intend to eternally support populations living in areas, '-¥hich cannot, by lack of fertility. support themselves? 
These qJestions presuppose that you have the means to obtain the grain (soyhe:tns? wheat? corn?) you desire. My home is a farm in the Miclwe· . I see the 111argin of profit decli;<.ng. As the profit decreases, the [dOduction is like­wise decreasing. Farmers at home use less f<'rtilizer because of its prohibitive cost and so the yield is going down. Farmers farm very pragmati,·al'y. "they do it for a living. So, sirs, ;r you want more grain, thL money will have to come from some\'·here. 
In reg rds tr your praise of Congres resolut;~n that human beings have the nght to food, I would ask you ·vhere Congress gets its authority tu legislate this right for all humanity! The United States does not legislate the rights to life, liberty, or happiness for citizens of other states. I~ we· recognize rights, recognition is the obligation that the right be upheld. Will th· United States government enforce this right? If so, how? 
Ye:,, .te~~teurs Alifn and 
D'Aurora. th.::re is comething sini~:·· 
ter in a t'nited Na•ions for Food. 
l"he power s•ruct•.tre of the United 
Nations was a retlection of the 
in"quity of po\\ ·~: at the time of its 
Jnception. The JN, too, was 
foUI;dd on prag!T'atic idealiam. 
The Jnited Na1"·~·1s has been 
paralyzed; it has 1 vt maintained 
worlcl peace. As ion~ as nations are 
tlot elpally in n{ed of each other 
for survival. an <. tive United 
Nations of any kind is unfeasible. 
The goal of a st[ te is in its own 
self-interest. Ifyou aJ. ·a proponent 
of World Federalism, to which your 
United Nations for Fo• d would be a 
logical outgrowth, I \\·mid say you 
had better prepare to annihilate 
every sovereign state. After this 
action you could proceed tc say 
each member of your state has a 
right to food. 
Meanwhile, I fursee no Robin Hoods in this 20th century. The farmers are not fa. ming for the masses of malnourished peoples, but to feed and clothe their families. The citizens of the United States are not going to put their interests second to world interests, whether Congress has passed a resolution or not. National govern­ments are not in existence to enforce inherent human rights, (if there are any), for non-citizens. 
You. sirs, see dreams fulfilled. I do not. Do you actually think the Civil Rights Acts did away with racism? Do you believe the college dream -to become a Domer -will end ignorance and injustice for the graduates? Apparently, you con­tend· you have found the good cause, free from evil consequences. I find this absurd. It will take much more than faulty rhetoric to im­pro~e the human condition. I have yet to see any cogent idealism in your statements, much less prag­

the natural c:onsequence of this 1 matic idealism. 


Even w approach of final exams, the Christmas can still find its way into students' rooms. (photo by Dommick Yociusl 
Juniors hold traditional SMC X-mas 'Animal Walk' 
by Beth Welch Staf£ Reporter 

The St. Mary's junior class con­ducted the traditional Christmas Animal Walk last night. According to Nancy Mogab. junior class president, the juniors met in the SMC coffee shop at 8:30 p.m. for refreshments which were provided by the St. Mary's Alumnae As­sociation and at 9 p.m .. the walk from dorm to dorm began. 
McCandless was first visited, moving to LeMans. They took the tunnels from LeMans to Holy Cross and then to Regina. The outdoor trek to Augusta ended the walk. 
Though some aspects have been altered since its origin, the tradi­tional walk is always made up of juniors who walk in procession through the floors and halls of each dorm carolling. 
The girls arc dressed in night­gowns,· robes, and slippers, and carry candles as they sing. In keeping with the custom, the students of other classes sit outside their doors with their stuffed aminals when they hear the pro­cession approaching. These stuffed 
animals are placed outside the doors. facing away from the Church of Loretto. As the carrot ling procession passes by. the juniors turn the animals around so they are facing the Church. 
According to· Stevie Wernig, 

assistant dean of student affairs, 
"The turning of the stuffed animal·: 
toward the Churh of Loretto is a 
remembrance of the coming of the 
animals to the stable when Crhist 
was born. The carolling procession 
is ~J mbolic of the angels announc­
ing the birth of the Christ child. 
The Animal Walk has been a 
need resumes in a hurry? 

I 

insty-prints 
the w:J..z of the printintbiz! 
rag_~o~d 

25 -81/2 X 11 $2.55 203 N. Main SdBend 289-697 
Christmas tradition for many years 
although  no  one  is  exactly  sure  
when  or  how  it  started.  "This  
tradition  was  probably  initiated  

around 1935, at the time of Sr. Madeleva," said Wernig. "Most of the traditional Christmas acitivities were .?eveloped under her influ­encc. 
When the walk originated. finals were held after Christmas vacation, . and Christmas could be celebrated during the last week of classes before vacation. "On the last night before vacation, a Christmas ban­quet was held, and later that night. between 2 a.m. and 3 a.m.. the juniors staged their Animal Walk," said Wernig. 
"At that time. they wore the senior's black commencement gowns so that they were all dressed alike, but instead of white collars. they wore red ribbons. They also sore holy and tinsel in their hair, but now because of the high price of holly, only tinsel is worn," Wernig explained. 
The Woak ended in LeMans with a Christmas Mass. and hot choco­late and donuts were served after­wards. Since the calendar change in 1969, with the fall semester ending before Christmas vacation, all holiday acitivities must be planned for the week before finals. 
"We just can't do it the old way anymore because of finals," said Wernig. "But Christmas here has a real tradition. Years after gradua­tion, SMC girls remember the 


special ways we celebrated here." 1 1...-------------~ 
Mon-Fri 6:30-8:00-9:45 Sat & Sun 
1:45·3:45-5:45­

Thursday, December 9, 1976 the observer 
5 

Volunteer service work available 
by Mary Ann Layden Staff Reporter 

The post-graduate or summer volunteer opprotunities are a u­nique experience and a different way for the indivieuals to grow and learn as well as a chance for them to gain insight and respect for other cultures, said Joan Griffin of the Office of Volunteer Services. The Office wants students to be aware of alternative possibilities outside of school. 
Seniors and undergraduates in­terested in post-graduate and/or summer volunteer opportunities should consider the different pro­grams and apply now, Griffin stressed. 
Tht Volunteer Services Office in LaFortune has brochures, sample applications and guidance concerning both summer and post­graduate opportunities. 
Interested students can get in­formation from the office and write directly to the program of their choice. Some of the summer pos­siblities include working for Trin­itarian Lav Volunteers, Glenmary Home Missionaries and lnnisfree Village. 
Post-graduate opportunities in­
clude the Channel Program, Inter­
national Voluntary Services, Jesuit 
Volunteer Corps. the Peace Corps 
and Vista. 
Most of the applications provice 
careful screenting process, but the 
programs are flexible. Application 
requirements can vary although 
the person is quually required to be 
at least 18 years old and have a 
high school or college degree or an 
December 27th 

GatorBawl Game 
Penn State/Notre Dame 
$13 
Special Rates g~r Pers 
Obi Occ. Minimum 2 Days 

• 
190 Luxury Rooms 

• 
10 Minutes from Stadium 

• 
Special Buses to &from Game 

• 
10 Minutes from Airport 

• 
Free Airport Limo pickup & delivery 

• 
Restaurant & Lounge 


Also Special Group Rates 
CALL COLLECT 
(904) 757-0990 

1057 Broward Rd. & 1-95 North Jacksonville, Florida 32218 Phone (904) 757-0990 
"CAR WASH':....where, between the hours of 9and 5 anything can happen... 
and.'iii!!!9rV~J. 
'Weekends 2:00 4:00 6:00 .•\::·:w::iiof£ t8:00 10:00 'Weekdays 7"?15, 9:15 
equivalent amount of experience in some area. 
About 90o/o of the programs offer room and board, and most give a stipend. Transportation to the area is usually not provided. 
The Trinitarian Lay Volunteers need students to fill jobs as nurses, teachers, youth and social workers, doctors and family vacation camp workers in various parts of the Eastern seabord. 
Glenmary Home Missionaries is a program disigned for young men interested in a church-related car­eer. for nurses and for short-term volunteers in U.S. mission areas. 
Innisfree Village is also for short and long term volunteers willing to . work with mentally handicapped adults. These adults and volunteers would be working together as weavers, carpenters, bakers, gar­deners, farmers, and vocational teachers in a farm setting in the Blue Ridge Mountains in Virginia. 
The Peace Corps assists in the economic and social growth of under-developed countries and in­volves a two year commitment. Vista works to alleviate poverty in the U.S. and requires a one year commitment. 
The Jesuit Volunteer Corps (JVC) has three centers in the U.S. which focus upon different pro­jects. JVC-East has headquarters in Philadelphia and its volunteers 
work  in  cities  and  applachian  
areas  as  community  organizers,  
teachers,  lawyers,  and  enivron­ 

mental specialists. 
JVC-Midwest's main thrusr is in the Cleveland inter-city working in parish projects. They need artists, 


Special Sun. only -8:00pm Sneak Prevue I 
~)#Jt£*4#;1-i i;\§!;1 ='~ 
at 6:00 m -See All 3 Features! 
Now .. The world's favorite story is finally a tory! 
AN X-RATED MUSICAL COMEDY 
WEEKDAYS 6:45·8:15 .. 9:50 SAT., SUN. 2:00·3:45·5:15· 6:45 8:30·10:15 P.M. 



Town & Country Shopping Center Telephone 259-9090 
-from the1 best-selling book 
The Dove 
PG

Showtlmes 1:15-3:15-5:15-7:15·9:15 
2 
musicians, and youth coordinators 
for high school drop-outs, senior 
citizens and recreational programs. 
JVC-West has its center in Portland, Ore. They need nurses, medical technicians and construc­tion workers. They work in Indian missions, urban areas and the overseas countries of Zambia and Guam. 
The International Voluntary Ser­vice provides assistance in agricul­ture, health, education and engin­eering in areas such as Algeria. Bangladesh and Botswana. The program involves a two year com­mitment 
The Channel Program works within the archdiocese of Seattle. Wash. Thev need volunteers as parish yC"uth ministers. Cothoiic school teachers. physical education teachers, and social workers for the elderly. Thes program involves a one year commitment. 
Christmas tree lit tonight 
Tonight the official Notre Dame 
Christmas tree, located bY the 
northwest corner of LaFortune. ''ill 
be lit. 
The Glee Club will be on hand as Fr. Robert Griffin. University Chaplain. and Darby O'Gill, noted leaf chaser, officiate the ceremony. 
Immediately following the cer­
emony there will be a reception 
with refreshments in Darby's 
Place. 
Everyone is invited to the cer­
emony. which is being sponsored 
by Student Government and dona­
tions from Griffin's Masses. 
Allen as 'The Front' 
*STARTS FRIDAY* Double Feature! ! 
FRI. 8:30 ~"'· 8:0 SUN 10:00 onty due KIDDIE MATINEE & SNEAK PREVUE 
AUNIVERSAL PICTURE TECHNICOLOR" 

t-'-'h:...:_.=e'----=o:...:b=--=-s--=e'-"r_v'-e.::C...:...r___T~~sday I December191 1976 
Stipulations for campus businesses released 
by Mary Pat Tarpey Senior Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame's Student Union and Student Activities Office have re­leased a revised and formal mer­chandising policy which defines the criteria for businesses and conces­sions operating on campus. 

Gennv Burke, Student Union scn·ices commissioner. explained that these guidelines are to be followed by students wishing to sell any type of merchandise on ,·am pus. 
"An~· student has to submit an applic-ation to us at Student Union. We'II evaluate it and then forward the application and our recommen­dation to Bro. John Benesh. direc­l<lr of Student Activities." explain­L'd Burke. If the applicants meet the criteria. the business will be ·tpproved. 
. application should contain the nalliL' of the applicant along with the name and location of the supplier. After an evaluation, a written response will be given to the student. 
The policy states that the product cannot be sold by any other outlet on campus. This includes the Notre Dame Bookstore. Food products or any other product that could endanger anyone's health or safety are not allowed. 
According to the guidelines. the product should be unique and should offer the purchaser some real benefit. Benesh stated, "We are looking for ways in which services can be developed for the students. we have to insure our students are served.'' Burke added, ''The service has to be worthwhile to the students and not something they could get else­where on campus.'' 
If a business is approved, the applicant must apply for a mer­chandising permit from the State of Indiana and also comply with all appropriate and legal tax require­ments which includes the Indiana local sales tax. Burke said informa­
tion  concerning  this  could  be  
obtained through her off ice.  
The  applicant  must  send  a  

monthly statement of their costs and sales to both the Student Union and Student Activities. There is a fee of $25 per semester which is paid to the Student Union. "This fee is paid for the exclusive rights to operate a business on campus," Burke explained. , 
Burke said this is the first time a formalized set of guidelines is in print. "This is more definite than we had before. Last year the criteria wasn't more definite be­cause there wasn't a great need for it. But with the more requests we received we had to have a definite policy.'' 
Greg Lange. assistant services commissioner added, "It's mush-
Client praises A.A. effectivene~s 
bJ Gerl}· Delgado Staff Reporter 

At the Alcoholics Anonymous meeting last Monday night, Sandy 
K. told the storv of her own bout with alcoholism.' 
·'There are as many stories as there are alcoholics," she said. Coming from a long line of alco­holics in an Irish Catholic family, she recalled that nobody ever mentioned the word 'alcoholic'." They simply drank too much," she added. 
Relating her start into drinking. Sandy said. "It was at a high school dance. Someone pulled out a bottle and I was an instant success." This conduct continued into college. Learning how to control it, she soon outdrink anyone. 
After marring. she settled down to a 'normal' life. The children came quickly. Feeling depressed after the third child. Sandy saw a doctor. "The prescription was great. He told me to drink a bottle of beer and relax." she laughed. 
Rationalizing her drinking, San­dy began to blame others for her problems. "I could see I was a worry to my children but I began not to care. I began to drink into blackouts. not remembering what had happened before." 
According to Sandy. "there was no one more scared than I was. Nobody was more determined not to take a drink." Eating in place of 
drinking.  she  gained weight  and  
wondered  whv  her  husband  was  
losing interest in her.  

"I remember receiving a leaflet about A.A. from my husband's company. addressed to him. I hid it. angry at people. because of my 
drinking. I began to be afratd of planmng one ~ay at a ttme, Sandy everything. My husband to find commented. A.A. helped .me so 
bottles, no matter where I hid that now I have no fear that I II ever them. Then I finally called A.A." take a drink." The strength of Alcoholics Anon-The Alcoholics Anonymous ymous. Sandy said seems to lie in meetings are held every second the sharing of the problems of one Monday in the Library Lounge a~ 7 
person with the whole group. "At p.m. There ar~ ope~ to the pubhc. 
times I wondered if I could make it. The next meetmg wtll be Monday, 
I had to be methodical. iust Jan. 24. 
Theft in St. Mary's halls becomes common practice 
by Jean Powley month. 
Staff Reporter · · ...it is a vcrv sad commentary 
that when it tinallv reached Saint 
Mary's it was stoien," the letter 
Stealing of college property has said. become a chronic problem at St. Rice's letter repeatedly empha­Mary's, particularly at the begin­sized that the administration was ning of each school year. and not assuming that a student stole instances of lounge and study the vase. but that it expected that furniture being "borrowed" to "the person who took the vase will furnish private rooms are wide­return it immediately. if not soon­spread. Sooner or later. however. er. the items reappear as consciences Shortly after the letter was sent begin to bother those who remo~cd to the various hall directors for the things. stated Kathleen Rtcc. posting. the vase was found in a dean of student affairs. bathroom in one of the halls. 
"I don't like it. but I understand The vase incident was an ex­how students can consider it bor­treme example of campus thefts, rowing." said Rice. "What they but unfortunatclv not an isolated don't realize is that they arc just case, according to Rice. hurting other students." 
This type of common "borrow­ing" was not what prompted he rooming now, that is the problem. The biggest thing is t'shirts. We had to clear things up." 
According to Burke this policy will make students aware of the regulations. She explained that people do not know that they had to apply through Student Union in order t<;> operate a business. "It wasn't written before; now that it's printed and available we expect people to comply with them," said Burke. 
Bruke explained the conse­quences of not receiving Student Union's approval. "If ~we know there's a business that's operating, we 'II give them a call and ask them to come and get a contract." Burke added that if students didn't com­ply with this request, further action would be taken. 

Burke said that copies of the merchandising policy can be ob­tained at the Student Union Office and she encourages all students who are either presently running a business or those who are inter­ested in starting on to get a copy of the policy. 

......CENTER 

''HAIR IT IS'' 
STYLING & HAIR CARE CENTER ' FOR A_. 
~·. GUYS 'N GALS .. ~ 
~ $2.00 off for complete style ~ ~with this ad!! Expires After Christmas.·~~ 
WE'RE CLOSE TO CAMPUS!! 
''HAIR IT IS'' 
IS LOCATED AT: 
U·S· 31 NORTH (ROSELAND) ONE BLOCK NORTH OF RANDALLS INN 
arking in rear. Call for appt. 272-5345 Hours-Mon. & Sat. 9-5 
Tues. thry_fri. 9-9 WE CARE 
--·ABOUT YOUR HAIR! 
Nov. 18 letter to the student body.. howe,·cr. It was a more serious incident. Someone had stolen. from I.eMans Hall, an extremely 
Campus View valuable jade and gold vase belong­ing to the Sisters of Holy Cross. The piece has belonged to the order for over tifty years and was to be on display at St. Mary's for one 
Apartments 
Your Source for the Unusual in Diamonds and Precious Gems 
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT 
Platinum and Gold Jewelry 
You'll find untold treasures of the finest quality brought to you by the eye of 
2 Bedroom Vacancies 
an expert.* And sold with the care of a professional.* 
Insurance appraisals and purchases of fine diamor,ds and estate jewelry provided. 
Semester Leases 
'Graduate Gemolog1st. Gemolog1cal lnst1tute of Amenca 'Fellow Gemmologist Gemmolog1cal Assoc1at10n of Great Br1tnm • BA lnd1ana Un1vers1ty 
Lobby 
$300.00 PER MONTH 
St. Joseph Bank Buqding South Bend, Indiana Telephone: 287-1427 
Office Open 9am -4pm Monday thru Friday
John M. Marshall's 
Your Source for the Unusual ~ 

Phone: 272-1441
......,....­
Thursday, Dec;;.ember 9, 1976 

the observer 
Economy boost, B-1 bomber head Carter's list 
WASHINGTON AP--President­the beginning of March." elect Jimmy Carter's transition 
"We're looking at housing,"team has established about a dozen Eizenstat said. "We're looking atpriority projects for the new admin­what we can do early in the housingistration but says the timetabel for area. And we're very concernedaction will depend on budget about the youth employment area,decisions that must be made first. 
which may be difficult to bang on line in proper fashion in fiscal '77,Stuart Eizenstat, Carter's chief but we're going to explore that policy analyst, says the priority fully even as a part of this earlyitems. including action to boost the package." he said. 
economy. reorganize the govern­ment and decide whether to con­tinue production of the Bl bomber, "We're going to look very hard arc dictated by circumstances and at public works areas to see if it can campaign pledges. be expanded," added Jerry Jasin­
owski, chief of the economics 
But Eizenstat said in an inter­cluster on Eizenstat's staff. "We view earlier this week, "We've got arc going to look very hard at to get'A· '•cfore we can get to 'B'. CETA (Eomprehensivc Employ­It's not au either-or sort of thing, ment Training Act); we're going to but at the same time. in terms of look hard at counter-cyclical aid.'· priorities we need to concentrate and arc concentrating on those The CET A provides trammg areas which would go into a revised programs, public works jobs and budget at the end of February and youth emp:oyment. Counter-cycli-
Notre Dame considers closed circuit for security 
[continued from page 3) year contract, Pears said, and the ademic buildings. A police officer school is discouraged by the cost. 
on an electric cart does this duty. State's to com­
Ball hook-up the 
None of the Indiana universities puter system would not involve has the complex and sophisticated residence halls, as the Georgetown equipment that Georgetown sys­system does. tem has. Most of the schools have 
Will the schools beef up their keys systems or don't lock their security forces as a result of the dorms at all at night. Notre Dame Catholic University rape case? The approximates. the Georgetown sys-
answer is probably not for the tem with its Dctex locking system, present. But the univer­and the school is investigating a sities are doing all that they feel closed circuit television surveil­they must do to protect their lance system for the parking lots, students and waiting for the court Pears said. Such a system costs to rule on Catholic University's $4000 per year with a minimum six appeaL cal aid, or-anti-recession funds for Other items getting transition state and local goverments, enab­consideration include welfare re­les them to hire or rehire public form, the international economy, employers, including firemen and the Arab boycott of Israel, health 
policemen who have been laid off care, national security and the because city and local budgets have financial plight of New York City. been tightened. Apart from budget considera-
SMC committee studies parietal survey results 
charge. Two-hundred and twenty­by Lucy Mcvay five faculty members are reviewingStaff Reporter this survey. A random sampling of 200 alumni are being sent the The St. Mary's Parietal Commit­

survey for consideration. A 75 tee met Monday night to put 
percent response is needed if the together the parietal surveys. 
survevs are to be effective. stated 

"These surveys are finally finished 
Smits~ She also hopes the students after many weeks of problems," 
will give careful consideration to Daine Smits, chairman of the 
thes~urveys.

committee said 
There are two surveys. One for the administration, alumni, faculty and parents. The other is for the 
Uhe student body. 
The administration-faculty sur­vey will be mailed Tuesday, Dec. 7. 
VPinOjammer

Smits hopes that ''the faculty as well as the students realize the 
CREATIVE

importance of this survey and the effects it will have on the future of 
HAIR DESIGN

the St. Mary's campus." 
FOR THE SEXES

Nineteen hundred parent sur­veys will be mailed Dec. 7 so that 
RElAXING 

parents will receive the surveys 
ATMOSPHERE 

over the Christmas vacation. "\feel that it would be most 
FREE HAIR ANALYSIS

beneficial to all concerned if the 
SMC students would discuss the 
RK RETAH.. CENTER survey with their parents." Smits commented. The deadline is Jan. 17. 
1637 LWW 
So. Bend

The student survey is just being 
·~~ 
232-6622

finished and distribution will take 
. ~ Appt. only.

\ . '. and wing representatives will be in place after Christmas break. R.A.'s 
tions and Cabinet appointments, Carter's campaign pledge to reor­ganize the government is 0ne area where initial steps can be taken quickly. 
Sources in the transition office say the work on reorganization already is past general discussi<'n stages and is down to detailed ?issection of departments. 
The Program of thelear isn~t on T'~

It's in the Air l"oree ROT<:. 
Find out about the two and four­
year Air Force ROTC programs today. They both get you an Air Force commission, an excellent starting salary. challenging work. responsibility. promot!ons, and a secure fu•ure with a modern ser­vice. 
Air Force ROTC also prepares you fr.r leader!.hlp positions ahead. Pos:tiors such as aircrew memur,r . . . missile launch of­ficers . . . mr.thematicians ... engineers ... and research and dsve:opment scientists. 
Find out today about the benefits of the Air Force ROTC program. It's a great way to serve your country and to help pay for your college education. 
For Information, Contac! 
Capt. Davis 
283-6635 


Air Force ROT(~ atcway to a of Life 
Nc.!ices 
ND-SMC Council for the Retarded: Christmas Party Sat. 9-11 :30. Any questions: Sue 277-1182 or Jim 287-3975. 
The last buses of the semester to Chica[lo will be runnin[l Friday, Dec. 10 and Friday, Dec. 17 at 5:45 from the Main Circle. Have a Happy Holiday. Tom 8338. 
RIDES AVAILABLE!!! Cars ooin<l to many destinations. Gas is-only expense. Call Bruce 8906. 
Typin[l. Call Carolyn 232-9061. 
Accurate, fast typin[l. Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. Hours: 8 a.m. -8 p.m. 
Need typinn? Professional Typin[l Service . Top Quality Convenient location. 232-0898. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune Basement. M. F. 11 :15-12 :15. 
For Rent 
For Rent: Niles, 3 bdrm, duples. $180 plus utilities. 684-6986. 
Roommates wanted for ND apt. Starlin[] Jan. 1. Call 288-4113. 
4-bedroom house tor rent -close to campus. Very reasonable. Well insulated and partially furnished. Call 277-3604 even inns. 
House for rent, off Portane, 3-4 bedrooms, furnished, available Dec. 20, '"250.00 mo. plus utilities, 1 month deposit required. Call 232-9386 after 4 p.m. 
Lost & Found 
Lost '78 ND class rinn. Initials FLB. Call Frank 1579. ­
Lost Fri., Dec. 3 in the Enn. Aud: a black osmiroid 65 pen with a left hand fine italics tip. Neat, huh? Sentimental value. Please call Mark 8540. Thanks. 
Found: 1 B-ball ticket at the Library Sat. ni[lht. Call 8953. 
Jumper cables at St. Joe Airport Monday mornin[l; call 287-5655. 
Found: Red·black striped scarf at Campus View, Fri., Dec. 3. Call 1558. • 
Found: Set of Chrysler car keys in front of LaFortune. Call Chuck or CCI me to 315 Sorin. 
Reward! For return of "Death and Dying" Notebook taken from book­;tore last Thursday afternoon (Dec. 2). I desperately need that notebook. Call 272-8581, or leave it at the Math Library (Rm. 200, Math building). 
Wanted 

Need 2 Indiana B·ball tickets. Call Jim at 8610. 
Riders needed to Ft. Lauderdale Miami tor Christmas break. Must leave Friday, Dec. 17. Call Bob, 1419. 
Wanted to buy: 1 [lOOd 35 mm SLR camera. Call Mark 259-3446. 
Need ride Stamford, Conn. area. Leave Sat. Call Kevin 8906. 
Need ride to St. Louis area for Christmas. Can leave anytime after 
4:00 on the 20th. Call Pe[l!JY 4-4381. 
Need ride to Ballo.. D. C. for break ­can leave Sun., Dec. 19 or later. Call Mary Ellen 8121. 
Wanted [lirl part-time for Tony's Shoe Shop. M-F Hours 2-4. 
Riders wanted Scoch-Piains N.J. area. Call Bozz 288-5858. 
Need ride west on 1-80 to Davenport tor break. Can leave Saturday (?l. Call John 1747. 
Need part-time babysitter 8:30­
11 :30 a.m. weekdays. 1.5 yr. old boy and 4 yr. old girl who attends nursery school MW F. Must have transportation. Some light house­keepin!J. My home is located 1 mi. from married student housin!J. $22 per week. Call 272-5808. 
Need ride to NY after X-mas. Call 4-4356 -Cathy. 
Riders to Florida in a nice, comfort­able van. Call 684-6146 or 683-6281. 
For Sale 

Lar!Je competition ski boots. Size 10. $75. 8760. 
AUDIO OUTLET: top name stereo equipment. W H 0 LESA LE. Call 283-1181. 
Fur coats for sale: Mouton lamb, Muskrat, sheered beaver and mink. Call after 6; 291-2258. 
For Sale: 1 GA Gator bowl ticket at price. Call 8125. 
Skis, Hart Freestyle, 195 em., excellent condition, call 277-3762 niles till midnight. 
BOOK SHOP. Used books. Students paradise. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7. Ralph Casperson Books, 1303 Buchanan Road. Niles, Mich. 683-2888. 
For Sale: One student basketball season ticket. $10. Call Jim· 3414. 
Fischer skis 160 em, marker bind­ings, poles, ladies boots, size 6.5, excellent condition. Call Carla 4-4258. 
Classified Ads 
Personals 

M • C will be hold in!:! a morals seminar every Saturday mor­ninn at 7:30 a.m. Just roll over and ask-her about it! 
Lemon Babies & Friends: Still crazy after all these years! It was great seein!J you a!Jain. Thank you. J & J 
To Bob Neff's friend Peter "3 E" Sweeney: May Santa Claus get stuck in your chimney.... l'll bet Mrs. Claus works overtime... 
1 tried to put this in yesterday but. the guy doin!J layout couldn't stay an extra minute overtime so... 
TODAY IS PAY ATTENTION TO 
NANCY CASHMAN DAY!!! 
Greg, Si, etc., Dave, Rich, etc.: To the bars? Thanks for the tapes. Miss you. Chris 
Hey, Little Nanovic, are you etc.? 
To Observerites: In case you don't know The Staff Party is this week­end. Sat., Dec. 11, 1976 at Campus View. Fun, food, refreshments, music, flOOd times & fantastic company. From 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. 
Mannie-The bucket's full ... Maggie. The bucket's overflowing .. Mag!J ie -Sorry -but the bucket's full of p... Mannie -Later Maggie. MUCH LATER!! 
Free to a flOOd home. Grey kitten approx. 6 months old. Litter trained. 'Makes a great Christmas present.' Contact Lisa 6746. 
Barb · get a JOB. 
Anyone who would like to help decorate for Observer X-mas party, drive"'UaiT. or prepare good, contact Martha at office, or leave a note in my box. 
Dave, Sporks, Bob, Puck, Mike, a good meal and a paint job, I promise. -C 
Mary C. Thanks for the party (Sorry I'm late). Tom 
Campus Ministry West offices ground floor of Badin -now student operated from 8 p.m. to midnight, Sunday through Thursday. 
Joe, Learn any new words? F & C 
Do you want to be a Catholic? Please call 283-6536 or 283-3820 for infor­mation about the Notre Dame Cate­chumenate Program. 
Stratman -LATER. 
DEAR MARSA, You should know by now that the best-laid plans don't work when I'm involved! Thank you, thank you, thank you . and boy, was I ever surprised!!?! 
Hey, Jim-What's with the S...? 
Observer Staff. Don 'I for<1el about the party Sat. nile at Cam-pus View 9:00p.m.-2 a.m. 
Nel, Bets, Noo, Surprise . C 
SMC Senior . Let's dance. 
ATTENTION RUGBY PLAYERS TEAM PICTURE TAKEN THURS. 
4:00 AT CORBY'S. 
Tell me, what's the wonderful thing about Ti!J!Jer? 
Barbie -How WAS the dance floor? 
How many? 
CCC -Thanks for the night! 
Mark, It's not going to work. I won't allow it. Webster 
R. B.: You made the weekend great. Orville and W if bur will never be the same aflain. 
TO ALL OBSERVER STAFFERS AND SPECIAL FRIENDS: RE­SERVE YOUR SATURDAY NITE, DEC. 11, 1976 FOR THE CHRIST­MAS PARTY AT CAMPUS VIEW COMMUNITY CENTER 9:00p.m.­2 a.m. 
Dr. H, Robert, JJ, Crackers & JBM, The Guys, JJ, Deebles, 166 Dillon, Willy, SKR, Joe, ROTC staff, Koz & guys, 106 Walsh, Sorin Guys: Surprises are comin!J Firday! C & G 
Siva, The king is dead. I am a Freeman. The King's Fool 
Happy Birthday Constance Madden . 21-Dec. lOth. You're finally legal­want to go to the bars? CCC 
ANY OBSERVERITE WHO NEEDS A RIDE TO THE PARTY PLEASE NOTE: VAN WILL LEAVE NO LIBRARY CIRCLE AT 8:30, 9:30 
p.m. FROM SMC AT HOLY CROSS HALL AT 9:00p.m. 
GC & JD -Good luck in Physics. C 
Thanks C. G & JD 
'Tis the season to be baggy!! Bag your friends! Bag your family! Bag your girl! (No stupid, not in the way you're thinking). Bag them all with an inexpensive Bag Brothers T-shirt (You idiots ordered them and now we're stuck with them!). Anyone interested call Big 0-bag 3662 and find out how easy it is to bag someone and make them jolly! 
Bobo . We miss you -please take care of us before you have a mental case (or 3) or your hands. Patty & Charlies 

ATTENTION OBSERVER STAFF THE CHRISTMAS PARTY IS SCHEDULED FOR THIS SATUR­DAY, DEC. 11, 1976. FOOD, MUSIC, AND REFRESHMENTS PLUS A SPECIAL GUEST. CAM­PUS VIEW COMMUNITY CENTER 9 p.m.-2 a.m. 
Everyone thanks for the great birthday on the 22nd. I still don't feel old! CCC 
• Earth to Deebles -Are you still there? We haven't had any contact in a while. 8042 (C & Gl 
PS maybe no surprises Friday. 
Lost: one Geor!Je Henry. Answers to "Marsh". Last seen in vicinigy of townhouses. Geor!Jie, come home! 
John Motto -we thOU!Jht you'd like your very own personal . Good luck in Physics -you throat. C & G 
-tat 0' Reilly: Happy belated 21st birthday. Sorry I forgot. Love, "Bookkeeper" 
·RNG, we have a date New Year's Eve! in Dayton. CCC 
Must be nice!!!! G 
Happy birthday to Clint Eastwood's double! (When he straightens his hair!) Don't give up! Stardom is ri!Jht around the corner! Love, T-bird 
Happy Birthday Joey Handersen from Alumni!! Your $12.98 Kresge 's going out of business sale suit was a smash at the Holy Cross Formal. Is it true you wore three pairs of socks so Mark's shoes would fit? Love, Your date, Whatshername, and the girl in the red dress. 
Rich . Sorry this birthday wish is a day late but I was too shy to !Jet it in on time. Hope it was happy. Really! 5'2", blond hair, blue eyes 
Rosemary, I had a great time at the formal and all, but why did you have to keep me out so late? Papa Golden Bear 
There are two Lyons g iris that study too much. Even on Friday nights. They even go to the Library. My heart goes out to them. 
To all the Kids: Good luck on finals! Have a great break! Beat Penn State! Have fun!! Love, G 
Poor Mary, she is painfully limping all over campus with a swollen ankle. What a stoic, suppressing all of that agonizing pain and pushing onward. Mary, this is a tribute to you and those poor crutches of yours. •. 
The war isn't over. The debt isn't paid. Scrooge's wallet's still locked. But he'll pay for his raid. Forget the mere three I want at least five to sign his treaty. And he'll find his assassin in P.O. Box Q and P.O. Boxex V, Z, U. 
8 
the observer 

S.W .A. T. takes command of Irish 
by Paul Stevenson we go in the game, the crowd turns receiving an education and never Sports Writer on and we just have a lot of fun." considering making the basketball But why even give a name to a team? 
"Digger" makes the decision team that consists of two players on "It's like your biggest game in about the substitutions and the scholarship (Carpenter and Haef­high school," Fabian stated. band plays the Notre Dame victory ner) and three walk-ons (Fabian. "there's not too much difference, 
march. From that point on there is Healy and Sahm)? only there are more people and it's no way to control the game -''These guys are just as much a larger scale." 
S.W.A.T. 
has taken to the floor. part of the team as anyone else," 


The crowd really comes to life 

S.W.A.T. 
is Notre Dame's ans­Phelps stressed. "I think it's when these fantastic five take the wer to the IMF force. The squad important and it gives these kids an floor. The team members are consists of sargeant Jeff Carpenter. identity.·· deeply involved in the course of the 

Chris Fabian. Randv Haefner. Tim Carpenter. the junior guard has game, yet, they have to be affected Heal.' and Bill Sahm. The quintup­been called on to command the by the roar of the fans. let never fails to bring the crowd to S.W.A.T. team. He missed Tues­
"When I missed my foul shot in their feet. day's game against Northwestern, the first half against Northwestern, "I got the idea from seeing the but should be in control once again I though I heard everyone, especi­
movie T"o-Minute Warning and by the next time S.W.A.T. appears in ally my friends," Fabian recalled. watching the show S.W.A.T. on the ACC. Phelps called on his S.W.A.T. tL·k\'i-;ion." lri'ih mentor Digger "Jeff (Carpenter) is more than a squad with 2:12 remaining in their 
l'hl'lp'> remarked. S.W.A.T. player," Phelps acknow­tilt against the Wildcats. when the "In the nwvic. Charlcton Heston ledged. "He's a great leader and Irish seemed to be stuck with a was trving to get the sniper out of gets these guys going. so putting score o1 99. the t• .,, cr. Heston was told that him in the sargeant role was Fabian was the man who put the .. ~.W.A.T. team took over, good." 
Irish over the 100 mark. On Itt' llould 1..1. L' no control.·· Fabian is a sophomore from consecutive free throws, the soph­The squad has not failed to Haddonfield. N.J. He played bas­omore walk-on scored the IOOth tTt'Cilc a -;tanding ovation in every ketball his junior and senior year at and IOht ponts in the ballgame. a !_!aml' in "hich they have partici­Haddonfield H.S. as a third guard feat that any basketball playerpated. Once they take to the on the team. During the latter parts would ltke to accomplish in this hardcourt. it's just them and the of both seasons. he broke into the career. fans in control of the game. starting line-up. I didn't realize that I had put us .. W c work hard and that's But how docs it feel to play for over 100." Fabian reflected. "I 
Notre Dame's S. W .A. T. team has created a great deal of important." commented S.W.A.T. Notre Dame. when one came to looked at the score after my free excitement in the ACC this season. (photo by Don Yocius) Sargeant Jeff Carpenter. "When South Bend with the idea of throws and figured it out· from 
thl re. Had I known what I was (Sahm). Tim (Healy) and I know the future. about to do, I don't know if I would what it's like and hilVe adjusted." "The S.W.A.T. gives us a rest
Browner, Fry, Eurick cited 
h;.ve done it." Bill "air-ball" Sahm was the fir~t before halftime. and that helps aRoss Browner. Willie Fry, Terry and UPI Lineman ot the Year. 
Fabian hit 80 percent from the of the walk-ons to score for the lot." Phelps noted.
Eurick. AI Hunter and Rick Slager Fry, co-captain of this year's gilt line, where he accounted for all S.W.A.T. team. His 25 foot bomb When the S.W.A.T. squad enter were the top honorees at the annual Irish squad as a junior. is Brow-of his four points. Haefner sank from the left side against Cal Poly the game. they arc in command.
football banquet held last night at ncr's mirror image at left end. Fry two tield goals against Northwes­thrilled the crowd. and the noise Whether they just please the crowdthe Athletic and Convocation Cen-was in or 77 tackles over the year. 
tern. to tic Fabian for leading has not died since then. or arc a psychological boost to theter to fete the 1976 Irish football nine for minus 65 yards. Fry scorer honors against the Wildcats. Healy has been a consistent team remains to be seen. They arcplayers and coaches. becomes Notre Dame's first two­"The hardest thing was just rcbounder for the squad. The time captain sir.ce Bob Olsen had
Browner. Fry and Eurick were learning what to do and what was freshman S.W.A.T.cager is known 
the honor in 1968 and 1969.

elected tri-capiains for the 1977 expected of us." Fabian said. for his leaping abilities and will be 
*Observer
Eurick, a fullback from Saginaw,

edition of the fighting Irish while "Just picking up the system was a steady performer for S.W.A.T. in 
Mich., was the third leading rusher

Hunter and Browner were selected the hardest part. Now. Billy effective in rousing the crowd,
for the L·ish this season, gaining

Most Valuable Players on offense bringing excitement to the team.
230 yard~. on 46 carries, a 5.0 yard 
Sports

and defense. Slager. a strong law and just aiding Notre Dame basket­
average. Fleet a"oot, he averaged Grapplers return
school candidate, was named the ball as they see fit. 
18.1 yan:s on iO kickoff returns,winner of the John P. McMullan 

after pladng seventh nationally in from Eastern trip ::::::::::::::::::::;.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Award. given each year to the that category a year ago. 

The Notre Dame wrestling team The ekction of three captains is
player who best exemplifies the Tony Pace 
travelled to Rochester. New York not a first for the Irish. The 1973role of the student-athlete based on 
this past week to compete againstNational Championship team wasaccomplishment in the classroom 
All-Americans
the top powers of small collegeserved by tri-captains Daveand and an inspirational leader 
wrestling in the RIT Invitational Casper, Frank Pomarico and Mikeboth on and off the field. 
·:-ournament. Placing for the Irish 
::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:::::=======:=:=:=:::=========:::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::. Who's right?
Browner. a first-team selection Townsenl. 
were Pat McKillen. first place at on everybody's All-America units, Hunter. who became Notre ISO. Mike Padden, second at 167, With the close of the college football regular season. anybody and rewrote the Notre Dame record Dame's f rst 1.000 rusher, finished ei'L'I'~·body b '>electing his. her. or its All-American team. The concept of
Rob Dreger. second at 177. and Dave DiSabato. fourth a 126.
books with his p-erformance over with 1.0:-8 yards in 233 carries. wlccting thew teams in order to give recognition to the nation's the season. His 28 tackles-for-loss The jurdo; h1lfback eclipsed outstanding collegiate football pla~-crs b sound. Problems arise. however.
Pat McKillen dominated a field of excellent wrestlers on his way to
totalling 203 yards in losses shat­Marchy .'irhwartz' 46-year-old re­in the actual de~ignation of the'>e teams. tered the previous marks held by cord of 9 ?7 vards in the second to the championship. McKilllen -de­The lirst problem tlwt arises i~ tr1·ing to determine whose All-American Jim Stock of 19 tackles and 120 last gam{ or'the season and topped team is the mo~t legitimate. Some pla~'l'r may be a first team choice on one
feated the All New England cham­pion from Springfield 4-1 in the
vards in losses. Browner also the t.OO•l r.1ark in the final at unit and not e1-cn I'L'<Tive honorable mention on another. Generally. established career marks as he Southern Cal. Hunter, an honora­football peopk attach most value to the Associated Press team because it
semi-tinals. and in the finals he registered 59 sacks for 385 minus ble men·ion All-American along is selected b~· a poll of sport'> writers and broadcasters across the countr~·.
dccisioned a Brockport wrestler in yards in three seasons topping with Slager on the Associated But with nine l\11-Amct intn teams. if the teams that appear in Time and
overtime 3-1. Walt Patulski's old standard of 40 Press's h{Jnor squad, also estab­The Sport mg News arc included. there is a question as to which team is
Mike Padden upped his season and 264. It was also announced lished a r:urk for carries as his 233 the nlll'>t IL'gitimatc.
record to S-1, reaching the finals that Browner was yesterday named tops Wa~ ne Bullock's 203 tries in A second problem is that All-American teams arc not always chosen
for his second consecutive tourna­the ···inner of the Outland Trophy 1974. with the won! "team" in mind. Often one position is ornittcd because it is
ment. Padden upset an All-Ameri­kit that a "bette1 athcll tc" has been edged out at another position and
cau from Ashland College in the s•: mi-finals, hut then had to settle somconL' want'> him on the team. On AP's recently published Ali-AmLTiean team thet c arc two wide receivers. four running backs. and
' fqr a second place finish when he lo>.t a controversial finals match 
no tight end'>. I would lii<e to see ml'sscrs. Dorsett. Bell. Lytle and Miller 5-.l. 
run without the added blocking that a good tight end provides. Besides. Rob Dreger worked his way to hmv would four runnint· bach be satisfies with onlv one football? the semi-finals by defeating a 
Still another problem' uises in comparing levels or' competition. Division I football cncompa-.sc-. .1 wide range of football programs. Colgate'sMid-American standout from Kent . ).tate and then a wrestler from 
linebacker Doug Curti·. was given honorable mention on the AP team. '\1ount Union. In the semi-finals 
but I 11onclcr if he is bl'ttcr than an~· of the Notre Dame trio of Doug Becker. Bob Golic an<l Stcv" Hcimkritcr. all of whom were notDreger faced a tough Ashland 1\Tcstler. He quickly fell behind 
tnentioned. Thetc is no lucid wa\' for this factor to be adequately 8-2. but fought back to a dramatic 
. ,d mini~ t creel. The tinal probkt:l that I ha' c with All-American teams is the smount of
11·1 0 victory. In the finals Dreger publicity that gOl s into ·raking an All-American. It is a wonder that any
I Jst an intense match by a close player who doc ... not ha1 ~, a large !»ports information department behind
overtime decision to the Canadian him ev._·r make'>' n All-ntncriean team. This vcar AP had John Yarno of
national champion and former Oly-Idaho a-. its tir-.t t:am ct nter. It is -1icc to sec-a relative unknown get the
mpian 3-1. , uod. My problcrr with th~ publici•y making of an All-American can be
Freshman Dave DiSabato sur­

illustrated in the 1 crson ..t Gary Jeter of Southern California. Jeter is now
prised the crowd and a field of 
starting for his f<urth y ';.r at dcfl'nsivc tackle for the Trojans. He was
veteran wrestlers by dominating named tirst team \11-An c,·ican bv United Press International and second
strong opnonents from Ithaca and team b1 the /\!»sOL i::tcd Pr··ss. Did he deserve the honor? Well. I only saw
Kent State. before losing an excit­two US.C gaml·s tl1i~ sea~ on. the Notre Dame game and the UCLA game.
ing semi-finals match to the even­hut I thought .lei! r was >ll crratcd.
tual champion from Brockport . If you sa1•· till' :~O-USt' game. you may recall a few of the times that
After that tough los DiSabato ABC had th,·ir i~olated cantcra on Jeter. Messers MacAfec and McDaniels
s-:rapped back for a fourth place gave him a view •>f' the _,s Angeles sky and an idea of what it is like
f.nish. playing in he deeo sec'J•1dary. "Blown out" is not a strong enough
The L-ish open their home season ckscription, ,f wha• happened to Jeter on those two plays. Even after that.

~iaturday at 12:30 p.m., against· Keith J:,lkS•lll hac' the audacity to suggest that Jeter was a candidate for
indiana Univnsity and Maryville defcnsi1 c pl1ycr o;' the game. Ole Keith has been brainwashed by reading
College. Indiana brings tough and too many press gutdcs. Many stars are made in the press guide and not on
.alented team into the match. They jomim.ted the Indiana State Invita­
the field. Should on: then pay no attention to these All-American teams? No, just
:ional, crowning five individual read them with the aforementioned problems in mind. See what players
champions. The Hoosiers are arc nam~d on two or more teams. you can determine the best players by
coached by former Olympic Cham­seeing which players are named on every team.
pion Doug Bluebaugh. 





