

server 
Vol. XI, No. 57 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Thursday, December 2, 1976 
Student Union undergoes self-evaluation 
by Marian Ulicny Staff Reporter 

Student Union has begun a 
re-evaluation process to measure 
student interest in Student Union 
sponsored activities. 
Ken Ricci, Student Union direc­
tor. stated. "We are working on 
the basis of providing the best 
services and events to the students 
at a price equivalent to their 
related benefit.'' 
"In other words. we don't want 
to throw too much money into 
events which benefit only ·a few 
students. These are the type of 
events we would like to eliminate." 
he added. "We just want to make 
sure the events the students want 
get the best attention and the most 
work.·· 
The evaluation will be guided by 
surveys which were distributed in 
the dorms. The surveys allowed 
the students to indicate their 
interest in current Student Union 
activities and suggest new projects. 
"I thought students should have .more input into Student Union 
Even our friend Moses here couldn't make the snow stop. Thus far, it
Affairs. and I hoped students 
seems to be the coldest winter anyone can remember.
would come up to the office to voice (photo by Paul Clevenger)their opinions. But they don't so that's why we're using the sur­


Director of ND Student Union, Ken Ricci. (photo by Paul Clevenger) 
Late prof's philosophy may find home in area schools 
by Mary Ann Leyden Staff Reporter 

The possibility of implementing former Professor Willis D. Nut­ting's educational philosophy for 
Christ the  King  School  in  South  
Bend  will  be  discussed  there  
Thursday night at 7 p.m.  

Reverend Kenneth J. Maley, 
C.S.C. and Principal Tom Black extended an open invitation to the Notre Dame-St. Mary's commu­nity. 
Nutting, professor emeritus in the General Program of Liberal Studies at Notre Dame and a member of Christ the King parish. died last December. Nutting retired from Notre Dame in 1970 but continued teaching at St. Mary's and the Forever Learning Institute. 
The Christ the King School had initially proposed to extend their elementary school through high school and name it in Nutting's '11onor but are now also considering adopting his educational ideas. 
Nutting wrote' his ideas and his Christ college concept in Schools and Other Means of Education and The Free City. Professor Michael Crowe of the General Program explained Nutting's belief in totali­ty and freedom in education. Some of his model is similar to the General Program at Notre Dame. 
Learning should not only take place in the classroom but also occur in the home, the neighbor­hood and the child's total environ­ment. Crowe explained that the key word was freedom Students should not be forced but placed in a situation with many opportunities to learn open to them. 
Nutting wrote for C,ommonweaJ during the 1950's criticizing the contemporary assembly line educa­tion. Schools placed too much emphasis on grades and the credit system rather than on the totality of learning and had too much separa­tion between faculty and students. 
Nutting was influenced by the Oxford system which gives its students a final evaluation rather than periodic grades in individual subjects. Nutting studied for three years in Oxford, England as a Rhodes Scholar. 
Crowe explained Nutting's views in The Free City. It is not important how the student learns, he said, but rather he should be evaluated on what he knows. Students should learn not only in a classroom, but the parents and local community should take responsibility for edu-·' cation. In school, the Great Books, tutorials, seminars. and manual training would be excellent alterna­tive learning methods to the tradi­tional classroom structure. 
No definite plans for the Christ the King School have been made, but Maley and Black hope to get thoughts and reactions of the participants at Thursday's meet­ing. Currently. Christ the King has 339 students in grades one through eight. 
veys," Ricci explained. surveys be the indication if we're 
Approximately 2,000 out of 5,000 on the right track," he added. surveys have been received, and ''There are no definite elimina­more are currently being returned tions yet," Ricci stressed. "We're by hall presidents, according to still in the middle of re­Ricci. "If we get SO percent back, evaluating." it's a good response," he stated. 
Student Union is presently col­SU • HaJJ Co-sponsorship Program lecting and tallying the surveys, "A big job in itself," Ricci noted, Ricci stated Student Union will adding, "After that. we'll compile use funds left over by any budge1 the results. We might publish reallocations to co-sponsor event~ them if we think they're statisti­with residence halls. "We'll Ie1 cally valid." the halls bring the ideas for events 
Ricci stated he hopes to collect to us. If they don't have the money the survey results by Christmas to do it, we'll help them out when the Student Union budget is financially," he explained. reallocated. "If they (the surveys) "It's not only a money thing. It's come back saying, 'Everything's also a help thing," Ricci added. okay; we're in favor of everything,' "We will provide personnel and then no activities will be elimina­knowledge about setting up a social ted, and there will be no change in event. Often, a hall just doesn't the budget" he explained. have the manpower." 
According to Ricci, the armory To aid in the activity planning, parties may possibly be eliminated. Student Union will distribute a hall 
''There is a strong indication of Social Commissioner's Resource doing so," he stated. Student Manual on Dec. 5. This booklet Union's "sinking fund" presently will contain guidelines for setting contains, $2,5000. This money is up activities, such as adequate used to protect the organization's security and publicity. budget in case of possible lawsuits arising from armory party-related Ricci stressed there will be no injuries. "If we eliminated armory. quota system set up to avoid one parties, this would be free money,' hall's monopoly of the Student can only help the hall, so it's open to any hall to do it," he stated. "If one hall wants to do it 100 times and their idea is good, then we'l' go ahead." 
The only restriction to hall products is that they must be open to the whole campus, Ricci stated. "For example, a hall might want funds for a steak dinner in it's chapel, but we can't discriminate that way. The whole campus must benefit," he explained. 
Hall Presidents Favor Program 
J.P. Russell, Hall Presidents Council chairman, favored co-spon­sorship of hall events. "If they can get together and the Student Union and the hall would mutually bene­fit, and if they can establish a criteria from which to do this, then the whole campus would also benefit," he stated. 
Russell added, "It would be good for a lot of halls without a substantial working capital. They'd be the ones to benefit most. 
They can't be the ones to sponsor 
things like big dances now, so 
maybe they could go halfway." 
Dave Bender, Sorin Hall presi­dent, agreed, adding, "Financi-
Carter concerned over steel price increases 
PLAINS, Ga. [AP] • President­the lead of big steel. elect Jimmy Carter met with 16 "One cannot escape the conclu­bankers, businessmen and econo­sion that these price increases that mists yesterday as his running­are being proposed," he said, "are mate continued to apply jaw­occurring before the new govern­boning pressure on the nation's ment takes office at a time when 
"steel industry to roll back recent the public has a great deal of price increases. difficulty in asserting its interest in 
The meeting was attended by these fundamental pricinli! poli­some of the nation's leading Demo­cies." Mondale spoke on his arrival cratic economic figures. Carter had at the airport in nearby Albany, Ga. made it known that the guest list He said the JJ.mmg ot tne steel 1included the names of persons industry price hikes could not have ,likely to be chosen as secretary of been worse because it may give the the treasury, chairman of the world's oil-producing nations the Council of Economic Advisers, justification to raise the petroleum secretary of commerce and other prices and thus trigger a serious top economic 1)9Sts. new round of international 
As he entered Pond House, a inflation; family summer home near here, "I don't see how we can handle Carter said the meeting probably inflation unless these large admin­
would include a discussion of the istered, price sectors show re­impact of the recent six percent straint,'' Mondale said. hike in steel prices. According to Carter's staff, the 
Before the meeting, Vice Presi­meeting was not intended to give dent-elect Walter F. Mondale the President-elect an opportunity called the increase "very unfortun­to see the canididates for federal ate" and said it may forecast an office in operation but rather to "ominous" pattern for the econ­review current economic 
he stated. "But we'll let the Union sponsorship program. "We [contlnued on Pill~ 7] omy if other1najor industries follow developments. 

-~-------~· 
Thursday, December 2, 1976
2 
the observer 


,._.--News Briefs--­
l=t---=-::=:=====:::::::================National 
United Nations admit Angola 
UNITED NATIONS, N.Y. -The General Assembly admitted Angola to United Nations membership yesterday by a vote of 116-0. The United States, which had once vetoed the former Portuguese African colony's admission in the Security Council, abstained in yesterday's vote. 

Worlds largest red-light district 
NEW YORK -Times Square was described yesterday as the world's biggest red-light district at a hearing on proposals to conquer the city's concentrations of sex shops by dividing them as Detroit has. The City Planning Commission conceded that its plan to drive the s_ex industry from mid-Manhattan by forcing shops to dtsperse throughout the city could fail, if only because of an anticipated court challenge. 

Cities Congress considers heroin 
DENVER -An experiment that would make heroin available to addicts under certain circumstances as part of an effort to control narcotics traffic was considered yesterday during the final session of the 1976 Congress of Cities. 
..,___On Campus Today__. 
10 a.m. 
12:15 p.m. 
& 
3:30p.m. 
4 p.m. 
6:30p.m. 7 p.m. 
8 p.m. 


Broken water pipe causes gusher in Keenan 
by Undy Declo Staff Reporter 

Keenan Hall residents woke up early yesterday morning to the sound of rushing water caused by a broken water pipe on the fourth floor. Students were mopping water from 3 a.m. to 6 a.m. 
According to Father Richard Conyers, rector of Keenan Hall, "The broken pipe was a result of someone pulling on it rather than the result of natural causes, but unfortunately we have no way of knowing who did it." Conyers explained that the pipes are in a recess area off the corridor and are usually enclosed by a panel, which has been missing for some time. "But," Conyers noted, "a student still would have to have gone out of his way to cause this damage." 
"Water started gushing out of the pipe at three in the morning and flowed through the walls from the fourth floor to the trunk room in the basement," explained Con­yers. He added that at one point there was four inches of water in the basement and water was still coming down from the ceiling. 
Conyers then noted the only frightening moment of the morn-· ing: "Here we were standing ankle deep in the water trying to mop it up when we realized we could all be exhibition, park chambers sculpture installations, isis gallery 
daily advent mass, celebrated by fr. robert griffin, Ia fortune ballroom 
seminar, "instability in transition in buoyance induced flows" by dr. benjamin gebhart, state univ of new york at buffalo, sponsored by aerospace and mechanical engineering, room 303, engineering bldg 
seminar, "photochemistry of transition metal com­plexes" by dr. g.j. ferraudi, n.d., sponsored by radiation lab, conference room, radiation research bldg 
dinner, madrigal dinners, regina north dining-hall 
lecture, "french nineteenth-century draughtsmen" by stephen spiro, n.d., art gallery 
concert, "jazz in the nazz", the notre dame jazz band and the jazz assemblage, admission free, basement of Iafortune center 
electrocuted if any ot the wires touched the water; that's when we left." 
Conyers recommended that a tour be given to each rector or rectoress in his or her hall of all the valves and fuses so that in an emergency such as this the problem could be more easily corrected. He explained, "It took 35 to 40 minutes just to find the valve to shut off the water, and the Fire Department, Security, and the plumber were all there.'' 
The damages reported were not extensive, although every floor was flooded to some extent, as well as many students' rooms. Some students' carpets were ruined. "The only other damage occurred in the trunk room," explained Conyers. "Many objects in storage were badly damaged, especially desks." 
ThE' Observer is publ1shE'd Monday through Fnday and weekly during the summer sess1on, except dunng the exam and vacation periods The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser­ver. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer 1s a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

From Truman Foundation 



Scholarships available 
by Ellen O'Leary Staff Reporter 

The start of a national academic search for the first Truman Scholar­ship candidates has been announ­ced by the Harry S. Truman Scholarshio Foundation. 
The Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation, established by Con­gress as the official Federal Memo­ial to honor the thirty-third Presi­dent of the United States, is permanent education scholarship program designed to prepare stu­dents for careers in the public service. 
Fifty-three students will be se­lected by the foundation this year as the first Truman Scholars. The awards will be made on the basis of merit to students who will be college juniors pursuing a bache­lor's degree as a full-time student in September 1977 and who have an outstanding potential for public service. 
The nominees must be out­standing students, with a grade point average of at least "B" or the equivalent, and be in the upper quartile of their class. 
Each scholarship will cover tui­tion, fees, books and room and board up to a maximum of $5,000 per year. 
The Foundation defines public service as participation in govern­ment with emphasis on administra­tion and management. Careers at all levels and functions of govern­ment are specifically included in the definition. 
Nominees must include in their application an essay of 500 words or less indicating their interest in a career in public service and speci­fying in detail how their academic program and their overall educa­tional plans will prepare them for Agents guarding Korean diplomat 
WASHINGTON [AP] -FBI agents are guarding a South Korean diplomat who has defied orders to return home and has begun co­operating with the Justice Depart­
ment's  probe  of  alleged  South  
Korean  influence  buying  among  
U.S. congressmen  

The diploman, Kim Sang Keun, 43, is officially listed as a counselor at the south Korean embassy but reportedly was the top Korean Central Intelligence Agency officer here. 
"Mr. Keun has come to us and that's all I can tell you," an FBI official said yesterday. "I can't go beyond that. It's sensitive." 
And FBI agent who answered the telephone at Kuen's home also declined comment. But at FBI headquarters, Tom Herrington, a spokesman for the external affairs division, confirmed that "we are now talking to Mr. Kuen." He would not disclose Kuen' s whereabouts. 
%The Observer 
Night Editor: Chris Smith 
Asst. Night Editors: Steve Odland, Jack D'Aurora layout Staff: Marti Hogan, Barry Tillis. Features layout: Chris Smith Sports layout: Paul Stevenson Typists: Gwen Coleman, Sue Shellenburger, Kathy Egbert, Don Roos Early Morning Typist: Morey Blinder Day Editor: Mary Mungovan Copy Reader: Barb Langhenry Ad layout: Tom Walrath Photographer: Paul Clevenger Hairstyles: Mr. Percy lighting: Tommy Edison Costumes by: Dominick of Hackensack, N.J. Car furnished by: Studebaker of you know where. Sound: Alex Bell Special Effects: Farah Fawcett and special thanks to everyone else who made this wonderful 

~~~1uction possible-we love) 
their chosen career goal. The nominees must also have selected an undergraduate field that will permit admission to a graduate program leading to a career in public service. Cources in history, political science, public administra­tion, economics and finance, and international relations are among the types of studies considered by many educators to be appropriate for such a career. 
Aside from the previously stated requirements, a student must also be enrolled as a matriculated student pursuing a degree at an accredited institution of higher education and must be a United States citizen, or in the nominees from Samora or the Trust Territory of the pacific island s a U.S. National. 
~NO 
SMC 


THEATRE 

O'Laughlin Auditorium 

All candidates for scholarships are nominated by their institution. Candidates do not make direct application. Each accredited insti­tution of higher education is invited to nominate one student annually on the basis of recommendations made by its faculty. They must submit their nominations by Dec. IS.. 
Applications forms are available fru .. t tne mstitutional faculty repre­sentative, who has not been ap­pointed at Notre Dame yet, from the Foundation, or from Education­al Testing Service, Box 176, Prince­ton, N.J. 08540. 
Further information may be ob­tained by writing to the arry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation, 712 Jackson Place, N.W., Wash­ington, D.C. 20006. 

· Tonight Pitcher Beer Nite with Roadmaster­
' 
2-839 No. 51th St., Niles to Niles, 
North on 51, 3 miles. 

DELICATE BALANCE 
Edward Albee's portrait of disintegrating love. 


Dec. 3,4,9, 10,11 
atB:OO p.m. All seats $2.50 ($2 Std-Fac-Staff) Phone: 284-4167 

WRITERS 
The Book Publishing course wants short (50-100 pages) manuscripts to consider for publication fiction, nonfiction, or poetry. 
If you have a work with broad appeal, please let us see it. S b ·t t
u m1 o: Elizabeth Christman 349 O'Shaughnessy .. 
this friday and every friday 5:15 mass & supper 



DOWN TO.THE. NIGHTCLUB ... 
BUMP CITY 
Fri. & Sat. LaFortune Ballroom DEC. 3&4 8pm to 1am Both Nights 
FREE ADMISSION1 
Fantastic Sounds  Two-Man Foosball (;om- 
Pinball  petition  
Air Hockey  One on One Air Hockey  
Foosball  Pinball Wizard of Notre  
Dancing Lessons  Oame Contest  

PRI?ES PRIZES PRIZES PRIZES 
All Foosball Team Captains, Air Hockey Contes­tants and Pinball Wizards must register by 5 pm 
Thursd"y ­



CALl-77-57. 
..... . --'.. -. , 'J} 


Thursday, December 2, 197& 
the observer 



Major industries bully our economy 
by Bob V arettonl Staff Reporter 

The recent steel price increase is one example of the way major industries bully our economy, according to Willard Mueller, a chief economic advisor to the Federal Trade Commission in the 1960's. 
Mueller last night told an audi­ence of 30 in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium that this type of in­crease doesn't happen in a truly competitive situation. He said public concern about the power of 
1 large corporations is not as great as it should be. Lecturing on "The Social Control of Market Power," Mueller said anti-trust agencies are the main sources of public control over powerful industries. "In my view," Mueller added, "anti-trust has failed in achieving its major objectives, and it's likely to continue to fall." Mueller suggested that the top 
WILLARD MUELLER 
Junior parents weekend planned 
by Mary at Tarpey Senior Staff Reporter 

The 25th annual Junior Parents Weekend is scheduled for Feb. 25-27 and is sponsored by the junior class and the University of Notre Dame. 
According to Nanette Bufalino, chairman of the Junior Parents Weekend Committee, the main goal of the weekend is to acquaint the parents with the university in an atmosphere other than a football weekend. 
"For the majority of the parents it will be their first chance to see what Notre Dame is really like. It's a whole weekend without the hectic crowd of football weekends. We want them to get to know the place better," explained Bufalino. 
Bufalino stated that the format of this year's weekend will be basi­cally the same as in the past. "The. major change concerns the colle­giate workshops. We want to make them more personal. We want to give parents more opportunities to talk to different faculty members and view the faculties in smaller groups. The committee also encourages students to bring their parents to Friday classes. 
The activities begin with a cocktail party on Friday night. Collegiate workshops will be held Saturday along with slide presen­tations on life at Notre Dame. Tickets for the Notre Dame-LaSalle basketball game on Saturday after­noon will be available on a first come-first serve basis. 
A junior class Mass will be offered Saturday night followed by a Presidential Dinner in Stephan Center. The weekend's activities will come to an end with a closing breakfast on Sunday Morning. 
According to Buralino, letters explaining the weekend were mailed Thanksgiving week and all parents should have received them by now. Included with the letter is a ticket application and a hotel reservation form. All parents are asked to make reservations through the committee. The deadline for all applications is Jan. 20. 
There is a one dollar increase in the price of the packet as compared to last year. The price for the 
dinner ticket is $!0 per person and thecocktail party and breakfast are each $3 per person. "We tried to keep prices down to a minimum. We tried to keep them down as low as possible because we want to provide the opportunity for every­one to come," explained Bufalino. 
The commmittee plans to. pre­sent different members of the administration. Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president, will speak at the Presidential Oinner and Father · James Burtchaell, University provost, will give the homily during the Mass. Bufalino stated that there will also be a speaker at the cocktail party and the closing breakfast. "We want to get a good range of the administration so that parents can see all aspects of Notre Dame life.'' 
• • So far things are going really well," said Bufalino. "Last year they had one of the biggest turnouts. About one-third of the class participated. That's what we're hoping for, maybe even a little better than that." According to Bufalino all juniors are invited to attend even if their parents do not plan to atend. 

WHY PAY $.60 ON CAMPUS 
ALL CIGARETTES 38• PACK+ TAX 
CARTONS 85 mm 
$3.49 plus tax 
CARTONS 100 mm 
$3.59 plus tax 

WE ALSO CARRY THE FOLLOWING HARD TO FIND SMOKES 
' -
Gauloises Caporal $.65 pack Gitane Filters s.6o pack 
La Carona Whiffs $1.15 pack Exports A's s.zo pack 
Balkan Sobraine $.95 paclt Koiaks $1.09 pack 
MAR~MAIN PHARMACY 
CHARLES SPIHER, PHARMACIST · 426 N. Michig_an

South Bend, ln(tiaiJa ,; 
. 234-3184 
Mishawaka Avenue at 30th Telephone 288-8488 

~~.;__-­
Mon-Fri 6:30-8:00-9:45 Sat & Sun 
l :45-3:45-5:45­. •7:45-9:45 

500 corporations should operate under a federal charter. He told the students and faculty members that the idea of this plan is to open 
Aside from Bufalino there are 14 other committee members: Maureen Walsh and Sue Grace, finance and tickets; Kathy Militello and D.J. Crowley, dinner and breakfast; Chuck Colbert and Nancy Budds, coctail party; Peter Wolf and Virginia Dwyer, Mass; Robin Eresman and Ann Combs, collegiate workshop; Dave Beno, hotel reservations; Bill Bransley, registration; and Jody Korth and Miria Mirto, secretaries. 
Buralino said that the committee would need help after Christman. "We want any interested juniors. We would like to get as many people involved in it as possible. 
the larger corporations to more public scrutiny. 
"I think that income tax records of large corporations should be made public," Mueller said. "Today an anti-trust agency with the power of subpoena has to go through long legal processes to get certain kinds of information," he added. 
Mueller, now a professor of economics at Wisconsin University, said large corporations were ori­ginally given privileges with the understanding that they had a responsibility to the people. But that understanding has deterior­ated, and Mueller noted that in New Jersey large corporations now 

Madrigal dinners held at SMC 
The St. Mary's Department of Music will pr >ent the fifth annual College Madrigal Christmas Dinners beginning today at 6:30 
p.m. The dinners will be held daily through Dec. 6 and take place in the north lounge of Regina Hall. 
The Madrigal Dinners resemble the English yule feasts of the Renaissance period. Madrigal Singers entertain the guests with traditional Christmas music while they enjoy an authentic 16th cent­ury meal, co~plete with flaming pudding and wassail. 
Highlighting this year's dinners will be performances of ''The Phony Physician," a short comic opera by Charles Gounod. 
Tickets for the dinners may be obtained by calling the St. Mary's Ticket Office, 284-4176. 
Two-Year Scholarships Now Available The Navy will pay the tuition and furnish books plus $100 a month subsistence for your Junior and Senior Years at college, if you can qualify for one of our special 2-year NROTC Scholarship pro­grams. For further information, no obligation of course, call 283-6442. 
have the same rights as private individuals. 
Mueller said the drug industry, for example, is free to set its own profit margin. He added that these excess profits are inflationary since labor unions then expect high salaries. 
"If we expect labor to act reasonably," Mueller said, "we must have the power to control concentrated industries.'' 
During a question and answer period Mueller suggested, "We could well start out by chartering the large petroleum companies." 
The Notre Dame Department of Economics sponsored last night's lecture. Mueller's visit was first of the department's four-part lecture series entitled "New Directions in Public Policy." 
need posters in a hurry? 




eanl 

insty·prints 
the wiz af the printinSbiz! 
_1 00 -11 x17 posters Only $10.00 
203 N. Main SoBend 289-6977 

.....where, between the hours of 9and s anything can happen... 
Thursday, December 2, 1976
the observer 



Oil companies control vast untapped deposits 
by Steven Schneider Pacific News Service 

As OPEC debates how much to hike world oil prices next year, huge oil deposits that could weaken OPEC's hold on the global market lie largely untapped in the Third World countries on three conti­nents. 
The major oil companies hold the key to these vast deposits. Third World countries, many of which are strangled by debt and struggling to pay the costs of imported oil, lack the Capital andtechnology to deve­lop their own oil reserves. 
But with the world market glut­ted with oil the past two years, the major oil companies are refusing to invest unless they get a healthy share of the profits, as in the days before OPEC flexed its muscle. And while they might welcome new sources of oil, they have hesitated\ 
to  risk  investment  in  politically  
uncertain areas.  
Even  in  the  most  promising  

area~ of Latin America, for in­stance. the drilling rate is only four percent that of the U.S. In Asia and Africa it is even less. 
Yet according to a recent survey, latin America· s oil may top total 
U.S. reserves, now estimated at 200 billion harrells, half of which has already been removed from the ground. 
The survey, by Arthur Meyer­boff, a geologist and colsultant to the state oil companies of Brazil and Mexico, assesses Latin Amer­ica's oil at 220 billion barrels, most of which is still untapped. 
Southeast Asia is now believed to possess about 200 billion harrells and Africa 147 billion, according to geological surveys and test artllmgs. 

Latin American Invitations 
Faced with serious trade deficits and limited success in developing their own oil resources, Latin Amer­ican governments are lifting years­old restrictions on foreign invest­ment to attract oil developers. 
Argentinia and Brazil, for exam­ple have lifted bans on private investment, foreign or domestic, in their state-owned oil industries. 
Argentina, with exceptionally large oil potential, has seen its oil production decline ten percent since 1972, forcing it to import 20 percent of its oil. Brazil must import 60 percent of its oil at an annual cost of $3 billion, over a third of its entire import bill this year. 
Oil company response to the new offers has been restrained: in Brazin for example, only seven companies bid on just six of the ten tracts offered for exploration. The oil companies' chief complaint is that current contracts call for foreign involvement only in bring­ing oil to the surface, cutting them out of subsequent phases. 
In a move to lure back private investment. Colombia has announ­ced it will phase out oil price controls by 1978. Oil companies cut their production almost a third during the ten years that price controls were in effect, helping transform Colombia from a SO-year old exporter to a $106 million-a­year oil importer. 
In contrast, OPEC member Venezuela successfully national­ized its entire oil operations. 
With 59 new fields developed in the past three years and reserves now estimated at three to six times those of Alaska's North Slope, Mexico will probably become a major oil exporter by 1980, with development carried out by the state oil company, Pemex. 

Irreversible Trend 
In Asia, OPEC member lndone-
Prof. Schlereth 
to give speech 

in Chicago 
Dr. Thomas Schlereth, Notre 
Dame faculty member, will be ~of 
the featured speakers in a series of 
Bicentennial Year lectures spon­
sored by the Chicago Historical 
Society. He will discuss ''A 
Robin's Egg Renaissance: Chicago 
Culture. 1893-1933" during a 
meeting at 7:30 p.m. Dec. 8 in the 
group's headquarters at Clark St. 
and North Ave. 
The lecture series, "Chicago: Creating New Traditions," focuses on the city's contributions to many phases of modern American life, including city planning architecture ,reform, merchandising. literature and culture. An assistant professor in the Program of American Stu­dies, Schlereth is the author of several articles on Chicago's im­pact on the midwest area. 


NO students win Rotary award 
by Michael Lewis Staff Reporter 

Seven Notre Dame seniors are among 120 world-wide recipients of the graduate Rotary Fellow­ships for 1977-78. 'Fhis is the highest number of recipients ever at Notre Dame. 
This award will enable Edward Barry,. Joseph Deroche, Maryann Hayes, Thomas Lenz, Anne Peel­er, Cy Reed, and Linda Wilbert to attend a year of graduate school in a foreign country. 
Most of the recipients :tave traveled abroad before. Four of them participated in the sopho-
Gate crash attempted at White House 

WASHINGTON [API • A man tried 
o smash an old truck through a Nhite House gate yesterday but he gate held and he was quickly :aptured. authorities said. 
The front end of the truck was lattened against the South-west 
•ate after the driver veered off ;usy Pennsylvania Avenue. 
The gate. one of the several new , ;tronger ones installed after a 1974 . :>ate-crashing incident, did not · ~uckle. Several White House 
Jolice in a guard house just a few 'eet away quickly arrested the man. 
The man was seen being taken nto the guard house. He was -'Caring a green jacket and pants md appeared to be about 30 years Jld. 
On Christman Day, 1974, Mar­;hall H. Fields who said he wanted :o deliver a copy of the Koran, ;uccessfully crashed his car :hrough a White House gate. 
Claiming that he was armed with ~xplosives, Fields kept police at Jay four hours before finally being trrested unharmed. 
At the time the Secret Service ;aid they could have taken stronger tction in dealing with the intruder, JUt noted that the President was not in the White House at the time and "we have some compassion." 
As a result of that incident, new >tronger gates were installed. 
more year abroad program and most of the recipients have inter­national career interests. 
One objective of the Rotary Foundation is to promote under­standing and cooperation among people of different nations. The fellowship awards are one way the foundation tries to accomplish this. 
While studying abroad, the students will act as ambassldors from the United States, represent­ing the US in and out of the classroom. Reed, a government major. said this student ambassa­dor role gives the program "more than an academic emphasis." 
Since the recipients of this award have opportunities to speak to many groups in the US and in their study country, applicants are evaluated on their ambassadorial as well as scholarly potential. 
The fellowship covers the full cost of tuition, books, laboratory fees, language instruction, travel, lodging and food. In some cases, this amounts to over $10,000. 
Although the program does not guarantee a degree, some stu­dents will be able to complete their studies and obtain a degree from the foreign university. However, the major point of the program is exposure to a foreign culture and the chance to repre­sent the US in another country. 
Applications for the fellowships are available at Rotary Clubs and should be submitted early in the junior year. The program is open to all fields of study. 
Applicants progress in competi­tion through local, distric and national levels. The application and an interview are required at the local level, and a second interview is mandatory at the district level. A nattonal board then reviews all district nominees before the fellowships are award­ed. 
The Rotary Club also sponsors other international programs, such as the high school student exchange program. Recently over 800 men and women have received educational awards from the Rotary Foundation. 


Your Source for the Unusual in Diamonds and Precious Gems Platinum and Gold Jewelry 
You'll find untold treasures of the finest quality brought to you by the eye of an expert.* And sold with the care of a professional.* 
Insurance appraisals and purchases of fine diamonds and estate jewelry provided. 
'Graduate Gemologist: Gemological Institute of America 'Fellow Gemmologist: 
Gemmological Association of Great Britain 
Indiana University 
Lobby St. Joseph Bank Buqding South Bend. Indiana Telephone: 287-1427 
John M. Marshall's 

C0£amond 9mpoftt Company 
Your Source for the Unusual 
..........­
sia has been embroiled in a dispute with the multinational oil compan­ies over profit-splitting, leaving the ' companies hesitant to pour invest­ment into Southeast Asian oil. 
Indonesia threatened this year to nationalize oil company holdings there unless they agreed to split profits 85-15 percent instead of the previous 65-35 percent. In compar­ison, foreign oil companies in the mideast keep only two percent of the profits. Atlantic Richfield and Union Oil have agreed to the new profit ration. 
But according to a spokesman for the Cities Service Co., the demands by Indonesia and Malaysia who until recently were involved in a similar dispute, have resulted in ''The present trend of reduced exploration activity in the southeast Asian area." 
For the next two years or so, he continued, "the present trend of reduced exploration appears irre­versible, in view of existing world conditions and local government policies." 
Africa, where a 1975 study by two Mobil Oil Corporation geolo­gists estimated 147 billion barrels of potential recoverable oil, re­mams one of the world's least explored regions. Even its known oil deposits are only partially exploited. 
Nigeria became a major oil exporter in the 1970's and then limited oil extraction to protect its resources from depletion. Now trying to boost oil production again to reverse last year's $1.6 billion ballance-of-payments deficit, Ni­geria is getting little response from the oil companies. The companies complain that the new regulations cut their per-barrel profits 36 percent early in 1976 and have refused to dig new wells. 
~ ~h£ :£nhmial 


Fancake Hnus£ 
OUR SPECIALTY 
OVEN-BAKED APPLE PANCAKES 
"You'll be back for more" US 31 (Dixieway North) in Roseland (Across from Holiday Inn) 

You can prepare yourself to enter this exciting field by enrolling in an Air Force ROTC program. You can select from four-year and two­year programs leading to a com­mission as an Air Force officer. 
Also there are scholarships avail­able. with a $100 monthly al­lowance. full tuition, books and lab fees paid. After college, you'll have an opportunity for a chal­lenging job and graduate educa-

For Information, contact Capt. Davis 283-6635. 
llrForce ROTC-Gateway ta aGreat Wag of Idle 
tiona! degrees. If y Ju're the type of guy who looks forward to an exciting future. look into Air Force ROTC programs that include preparation as a missile launch officer in the Air Force. Help continue the traditions that have made our country so great Be an Air Force missileman. 
Get all the details about Air Force ROTC today. 

Thursday, December 2, 1976 
the observer 
ND's post-war married student boom 

"Vetville" That--and quite a bit more. from one til five, then back to Bendix from Married Student Housing The shabby World War II barracks that six until ten. "In between," Schlereth"...paying rent of 1945-62 housed a major portion of the Notre Dame writes, "he studied." There was no time 
Many Were the Trials--married community for eighteen years for sleep.
$27 per month..." Thanks to the Holy Family comprise one of the more colorful chapters Professor Ronald Weber, American Stu-For the Many Blessings in Du Lac history. How the barracks got dies department chairman, remembers Needed to Persevere there is a story worth telling. Vetville quite well. "It was an interesting
by Paul Hess 

"In the spring of 1946," Professor place," he recalls with a chuckle. One 
Staff Reporter 

Many a student has passed by this Schlereth writes, "both on and off-campus aspect particularly stands out in his mind. remnant. Quite a few no doubt have even housing were at a premium." Something "I remember that nobody had any paused to read it. But few, if any, realize had to be done for married students, who money," says Weber, who was a student at what it means. were finding it particularly difficult to Notre Dame in the fifties when the project
Outside the north end of the Memorial In his lucid portrait of Notre Dame procure lodgings. Unfortunately, in the was in its prime.Library stands an historical marker which history The University of Notre Dame, post-War period money was also at a Another with memories of the place is 
c.pmmemorates one of the most intriguing Professor Thomas Schlereth of the Ameri­Professor Emeritus Paul Fenlon of Sorin
premium and the University found itself in yet least known of Notre Dame institutions can Studies Department says that Vetville, an unenviable position. But an answer had Hall. Fenlon was an English teacher and 
from an era gone by. 
as the less than . modest. married quarters to be found. he remembers his amazement at the It reads: came to be known, "represents the growth The solution was an ingenious one. "In project's inception. "They just got these 
This Area Was the Site of of the modern campus eastward." May of '46," Schlereth continues, "Uni-barracks from Missouri and set 'em up,'' versity officials and the Federal Housing Fenlon recalls. "They were rather meager Administration announced plans for dis-quarters." mantling 39 POW barracks at a military Fenlon tells of visiting students who camp in Weingarten, Missouri and trans-lived in Vetville a couple of times and porting and reconstructing them on a remembers, "You could hear people in the 13-acre site now occupied by the Memorial next three units. It was a little dis· Library and surrounding structures." And tracting." after clearing the area of hrm buildings, But even more distracting for unwed that's exactly what they dici. Fenlon were all the children. ·Tm not 
Soon after, the barracks were ready for certain, but I think you either had to have occupancy. By the end of the year, 117 children or be expecting one to live there." families called Vetville their home, paying Most, he recalls, had two or three. "They the not-too-exhorbitant rent of $27 per called it 'The Fertile Valley,' " he relates month. The apartments were furnished, as with a chuckle. There were 106 babies Professor Schlereth puts it, in "early born in the '46-47 school year. marriage" decorum. In 1961, the barracks were bulldozed and 
For the undergraduate father and his burned to make way for the Memorial family, life consisted of a series of Library. Vetville was replaced by the hardships. Schlereth writes of one such University Village on Route 31. But for student whose daily routine was, in a word, those who remember it and those who Jived rigorous. Eugene Jaeger, a father of four there, Vetville lives on, never to be in 1951, worked from 8:00am until noon as replaced. As Professor Fenlon puts it, "It an engineer at Bendix, went to classes was a memorable place." 

The dangerous life of a KKK fighter 
by Tim O'Reiley 

;:;:Editor's note: In 1957, Mr. James Folks were scared to cross the picket line. Observer: Do you anticipate a resurrection to see if my rights had been violated. I:;:; ;:;: Balckom, who owned the ouly movie A Jot of times they would even stick pins in of the Klan anytime soon? never heard from them again, so that made :;:; ;:;: theatre, in Gray, Ga., opened his seats to folks, just to intimidate them. Folks didn't Balkcom: No, I don't. And if they do any me even more bitter with them. In 1965, :;:; ;:;: blacks. The Ku Klux Klan, however, did resist, because at that time, everyone knew time soon, I know that Jimmy Carter is a after another encounter with the Klan, the :;:; } not approve of his move and commenced a that the Klan was a very dangerous staunch opponent of the Klan, so he'll stop agent told me that the Klan would be taken:;:; \campaign of intimidation that closed the organisation in the state of Georgia. anything. The KKK comes and' goes in care of, and that Martin Luther King would:;:; } theatre within a year. Since then, Mr. After nearly a year, I lost everything cycles, and always follow their slogan, be taken care of too. The records show:;:; } Balkcom has waged something of a private financially. We got to where we were "Today, tomorrow, and forever." today that Dr. King was under strict:;:; :;:; war to destroy the Klan as revenge. He having only five or six customers a night. Today they are not a very effective surveillance by the FBI and law enforce-:;:; } was interviewed by Features Editor Tim The theatre and everything I had in organization. They have a few narrow-ment officers in Memphis, Tenn. The only:::: ;::: O'Relley. the bank went down the drain. I felt in minded, prejudiced , race-haters that way Martin Luther King could have been;:;: ;:;: Observer: Your advertisement pamphlet principle that I won, but not financially. It accept anything the Klan says or does. But killed was with the approval of somebody. I;:;: :;:: advertises your tour as "Balkcom vs. the was then that I took my vow to get even as far as the South goes, they don't really won't go into all the details, but I definitely;:;: } KKK". What is your battle against the with them, and I did get even. have anymore influence. feel that James Earl Ray was part of a;:;: } Klan? Observer: How did you get even with them? Observer: What have you been doing since conspiracy. ;:;: ) Balkcom: The reason that's on my bro-Balkcom: About eight years later, with the your business closed? Observer: Your brochure says that you can;:;: ;:; chure is that's what the newspaper passage of the Civil Rights Bill and Pres. Balkcom: I've been in politics. At present, reveal "interesting facts" about the auas-;:;: ;:;: headlines tead back in 1957-58. Johnson's war on the Klan, I got even by I'm Jones County Civil Defense Director. sinatJon of Dr. King. Do you have any of;:;: ) My battle against the Klan is to infiltrating the Klan and testifying for Before that, I served a term as a county those facts with you? ;:;: ;:;: eradicate them, just like an exterminating I the House Un-American Activities Com-commissioner (1969-1972) When I was Balkcom: No, I don't have any with me, but;:;: ;:;: company. That has been my main mittee.I had a robe madefor me, and went County School Superintendent in 1956, I following these statements the Klan did go;:;: ;:;: ambition ever since they ruined my up to a lake where they were having a big faced a man who had been in office for 20 downhill, and Martin Luther King was ;:;; ;:;: business, when I let blacks in my theatre in July 4th party and I just slipped in. I made years. At first I was declared winner, but murdered, so I think there had to be a;:;: ;:;: '57 and '58. An I feel that I played a large it a point to slip into their little hut, which all at once they produced another ballot conspiracy. I think they turned their backs;:;: ;:;: part in disposing of the Klan in the South is just like a Nazi shrine. They had robes box that had been underneath the staircase where they should have been looking. ;:;: ;:;: durin_g its heyday. hanging on the walls: the red ones to get in the county court house. So while we Observer: How high up were these FBI;:;; ;:;: Observer: How did your battle against the people to join, and the white robes were celebrating, they went upstairs to the people? ;:;: { Klan begin? symbolizing purity. They also had their absentee ballots, and gave him just enough Balkcom: They were top agents. ;~;~ :;:; Balkcom: My battle against the Klan other symbol, the burning cross, which to defeat me, by 17 votes. We took the Observer: Why haven't you disclosed any;::; {; started when I first let blacks come into my they still display at Stone Mountain, Ga. case to court, where the jury agreed that of these "facts"T :;:; :;:; show. The started making threats to me, every year. the voting was a fraud. But they said there Balkcom: I'm going to testify before the:;:; :;:; and making rides to Gray, Ga. where I Observer: You make the KKK sound like a was nothing they could do about it, since it Senate in about a month, so I'm supposed:;:; :;:; lived, which is about 12 miles from macon. Mafia-type organization. would cost the county too much money to to avoid pre-hearing publicity. At the time:;:; :;:: Every weekend, from 100-500 would come Balkcom: They definitely were. For hold another election. the brochures were printed, I didn't know I :;:; :;:; in the robes to parade around my theatre example, they blocked the nomination of AI Observer: Between the theatre business would be called before this probe. :;:; :;:; and scare off my customers. At that time, Smith for president in 1924, and prevented and poUtlcs, did you have any problems Observer: How would you describe the:;:; :;:; both blacks and whites were superstitious, his election after nomination in 1928, earning a Uvlng because of the KlanT racial condition In the South todayT :;:; :;:; and afraid of getting hurt by the Klan. because he was a Catholic. They are Balkcom: My mother and I own a 100 year Balkcom: I don't think it's more different:;:; :;:; There was no law in the South at that anti-Catholic, anti-Black and anti-Jew. old country store, that has become a there than it is anywhere else; in fact it:;:; } time. I would say that 99 percent of the Observer: Since they were such a landmark in Georgia. We got a lot of may be better in the South. The South has:;:; ;:;: officials in the South at that time at least pervasive organization, didn't you fear for business from the store, and have done progressed much further than northern:;:; ;:;: secretly belonged to the Klan. So, even your safety? very well from it. states in the area of race relations. They're :;:; ;:;: whites who supported me were afraid to Balkcom: Let's just say that I never turned having much more of a problem in Boston~;~; ;:;: show it. • my back on them. At night I got so many Observer: Many times during your than in Georgia with the integration of;:;: :;:: Observer: In 1957, It was unheard of to threatening phone calls that I finally took lecture, you question the crecllbWty of schools. When the South finally broke:;:; ::~; admit blacks to the same theatre as whites my phone off the hook. Especially after government, and law. enforcement agen-down, they accepted integration full force. ~:1: ;:;: in the South. Why did you do It? dark, I knew they watched every move I cles; the FBI in particular. Do you truat But in the North they're having all kinds of;:;: ;:;: Balkcom: The only thing I can tell you is made. them to thorouahly prosecute the KlanT problems. ;:;: ;:;: this: when you put money in a cash Observer: What do you hope to accompUsh Balkcom: When I was growing up, I Observer: When wUl you COil.lkler yoar ;:;: ;:;: register, you can't tell if it comes from a on your presentspeaklng tour? thought the FBI was the greatest organiza-battle completedT ;:;: ;:;: black person, white person, yellow person Balkcom: The KKK is a dirty part of tion in the world, as American as apple pie. Balkcom: I have borrowed the Klan's;:;: ;:;: or red person. After all, I was in the American history, and today's college But in my skirmishes with the Klan, it slogan, "today, tomorrow, and forever,";:;: { entertainment business, so I was out to let students really don't know much about the seemed like they tried to help the KKK and I will continue until I extinguish the;~;~ ;:;: as many people into my theatre as I could. Klan. I feel I am giving students, through more than me. The first time I called, they flame of the Klan. As long as there is race~~: ;:;: Observer: To what lengths did the Klan go my adventures and fights with the Klan, never all$wered. Later my store was hatred in Klansmen, I will speak out ;~: { to to try and stop you? some personal experience that they can't riddled with bullets. The store had a post against them. 01 feel that by appearing at.~;j :;:; Balkcom: Well, they tried everything in the get otherwise. I want to show what kind of office in it, a part of the federal colleges, I am doing a service because they~~: } book. They would come up in their cars, organization the Klan was, and hope no government, but what did they do? They should never be allowed to return in the.~:; } get out, and start picketing me; under the one will get involved with anything similar said they would have to tum it over to the numbers that they had before. ·§: } marquee and up and down the street. to the KKK. · Justice Department in Washington, D.C., Ob.erver: 'I'bankyoa, Mr. Jlellrcnm, ~ 
;;;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::;:;:;:::::;::::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
-~---------------~-------------------~ 
... 

6~--~th~e~o~b~s~e~r~v~e~r~_____T_hu_r_sd_a_y_,_o_e_ce_m_b_e_r_2_,_19_7_6 
Jose Lopez Portillo sworn in 
Mexican president to emphasize business 
by Kernan 1 umer Associated Press Writer 
MEXICO CITY [AP] • Jose Lopez Portillo was sworn in as president of Mexico yesterday as his prede­cessor. in one of his last acts, awarded to Mexican peasants titles to 1.1 million acres of land that had previously been expropriated. 
Outgoing Prestaent L~·is Echeverria also ordered a new expropriation of 8,668 acres of land, to be split up into 60,200 small. plots for peasants' homes, the Agrarian Reform Ministry said. 
The ministry did not specifiy the locations of either of the newly expropriated land or the land for which titles were awarded. 
The Associated Press eroneously reported that the 1.1 million acres was land newly expropriated. The error was caused by a mistransla­tion of a government announce­ment. 
The 1.1 million acres had been expropriated at various times since the Mexico's 1910 revolution but was previously worked by peasants who did not actually have title to it. Echeuerria's decrees formally awarded the land to about 32,000 peasants. 
In his inauguration speech, Lopez Portillo indicated his admini­stration would return to more business-oriented policies and swing the country toward the right. 
Lopez Portillo, a former treasury minister, accepted the red, white and green presidential sash from Echeverria at Mexico City's Na­tional Auditorium, where represen­tatives of 102 countries gathered for the ceremonies. 

In his remarks, Lopez Portillo said redistribution of income to help the poor share more of the country's wealth should be based 
Energy crunch discussed 
by Honey McHugh Staff Reporter 

The "doom machine," the Energy-Environment Simulator, invaded the St. Mary's campus last night during an Energy Environ­ment Workshop held in Carroll Hall and sponsored by the American Scene lecture series. 
Mr. Walter Cory, coordinator for School Science at Indiana Univer­sity-Bloomington, revealed some facts about present day environ­mental conditions in light of the "energy crunch" of 1973-74. He pointed out that the energy crisis has not subsided completely in the last three years and today the U.S. imports 4S-SO percent of its oil supply. 
Cory explained that every aspect of modern living hinges upon energy in one form or another, whether it is hydroelectric, nuclear. thermal, atomic, or solar. The ultimate demand must be met for use in transportation, agriculture, and industry,'' he explained. 
"Fossil fuel production and availability has passed the half-way mark." stated Cory. "There is approximately a 40 year supply of natural gas left, a 120 year supply Jf petroleum and a 140 year supply lf coal.'' 
The ultimate effect of these ;;hortages became apparent to the audience through the "doom machine," the Energy-Environ­ment Simulator. This electronic device enabled the audience to interact and see the variables involved in energy supply and demand influenced by population growth and time elements. 
"Some measures nave been taken," he said, "yet not enough. In the past 2S years, our energy demand per capita increased by SO 1ercent." He further stated, :'There are approximately 100 nillion cars on our roads which :onsume SO percent of the world's .'uel supply; this amounts to 7S Jillion gallons of gasoline for cars ;vhich operate at less than 30 Jercent efficiency.'.' 
on creating more jobs. the violence that springs from their 
He made clear his government desire for justice and to channel would emphasize production and their desperation .. . and their restoring faith of the business compassion into constructive sector in the government. Mexico activity." has been suffering from high Lopez Portillo, who could sus­inflation, a weakened peso, high ~end Echeverria's land expropria­unemployment and the flight of twn decrees, noted that there are capital abroad. r~al limitations to land redistribu-
The new president andMexico. twn. would have to go through a period In the past, Mexico's agricultural of austerity to pull out of the pro_b~ems have been as much recession. pohttcal as technical, with the 
He called on "extremists to defer government portioning out land to 
The Four Musketeers 
Decemher 3 & 4 7, 9, 11 P.M 

peasants who cannot produce effi­ciently in large quantities. 
Under Mexican law it is illegal for an individual to own more than 2SO acres of land. Wealthy families have divided their large holdings among individual family members and claim they have met the requirements of the Jaw. About two weeks ago Echeverria expro­priated 243,000 acres of ranch and farm land in the northern state of Sonora. Protesting the move, ranchers and farmers halted all agriCultural work and parked their tractors and other farm equipment on the streets of Ciudad Obregon. 
Businessmen in 41 cities closed their stores and factories in one­day strike to show sympathy for the plight of the dispossessed land­
owners. 
U.S. DELEGATES AT Lopez Portillo's inauguration included Rosalynn Cartef, wife of President­elect Jimmy Carter; Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger and President Ford's son Jack. 

You can too! 
. Call:(219)234·3515 
------------·-~-----~ 
Thursday, December 2, 1976 
the observer 
Council discusses quad party ,... 
[continued from page 1] 
Gilmore to be
We'd like to start something, but Hebert, Keenan Hall president,ally, it would help us out tremen­· we have no ideas at present." plan!> a meeting with Ricci concern­dously. We only have 163 guys, "It sounds like a really good idea ing a North Quad Christmas party. 
and the hall tax is only six dollars. 
because a lot of halls are limited by "I think it's got possibilities," heConsequently, we have to charge small funds,'' stated Molly stated. "I'll have to find out 
shot at sunrise
for events in the hall, and guys can McGuire, Lyons Hall president. exactly how they'll organize it."
find cheaper or free things else­"We brought it up at our hall Ricci stated the concert ticket by Ron Barker execution would have been stayedwhere." 
council meeting, so people will try allotment for dorms will undergo Associated Press Writer pending an appeal.
Other hall presidents expressed 
no immediate revision. "We've 
Robert Van Sciver, an attorneysupport for the proposal. George to think up some ideas for next 
taken a major step with the tickets, 
PROVO, Utah [AP] • A judge for other Death Row convicts, siadVelcich, Cavanaugh Hall president, semester. There's really no time to 
and now it's just a matter of 
yesterday ordered convicted killer he and others, including the Amer­very good really plan anything now.''
stated, "I think it's a working out the bugs," he noted. 
Gary Gilmore shot by a firing squad ican Civil Liberties Union (ACLU),idea to use Student Union money to Although most presidents felt it 
"I have yet to receive any major 
at sunrise Monday, while death­would meet Thursday to coordinate sponsor events for the entire was too late in the semester to 
negative feedback on the process 
penalty opponents called a quick plans for halting the execution.
campus like parties or shows. begin any new activities, . Rich as a whole." 
meeting to try to stop what would Van Sciver said shortly after the be the nation's first execution since hearing that "it is conceivable" he ' 1967. would file a petition in federal court
Dinner scheduled for seniors 
"I don't want a hood on my seeking to stay the execution. head. I'd like to stand and not wear "There's no question the actions a hood," Gilmore said when Dis­we take can stop it," said Jinksby Martha Fanning be offered for those "completing He requested that the guests reply trict Court Judge J. Robert Bullock Dabney, ACLU attorney. He saidProduction Manager their degree requirements in Dec­as soon as possible to the invita­asked if the convict had any the U.S. Supreme Court wouldember," according to Griffin. "The ' tions. 
requests. eventually get the case.
Fr. Robert Griffin, the University mass will be held before the social Griffin added that any member "I doubt I have jurisdiction over Gilmore was handcuffed, shack­chaplain, has announced plans for hour at 5:10 p.m. in the Keenan­of the staff, hall personnel or that, but I will tell the warden led and wearing his white maxi­
a dinner to honor seniors graduat­Stanford Chapel. faculty who wish to honor these about your request,'' Bullock rep­mun-security prison uniform. Heing in December. The event is Letters of invitation have been students and join in the celebration lied. Traditionally, the condemned appeared calm as he stood beforescheduled for Thursday, Deceber sent to the approximately 65 grad­should contact him as soon as man-no woJ"an has ever been Bullock.
9. 1976. uating seniors. The University possible. Griffin can be reached in executed irl Utah -sits in an "Unless you request otherwise, IGriffin decided to hold the dinner Chaplain also noted that some his room, 101 Keenan, anytime armchair, bound hand and foot will set the execution for sunriseafter consulting with Richard Sulli­"invited guests" are also included. after 9:30 a.m. 
with a leather hood over his head. Dec. 6," Bullock told Gilmore. 
van, registrar and Fr. Terrence Gilmore said he prefers to face "That's acceptable," GilmoreLally, vice-president of student the firing squad, rather than spend replied.
affairs. "It seemed this landmark 
Free dance to be held 
the rest of his life in prison. Utah County Atty. Noall Wootton in the life of a graduate should not The execution would come two requested the execution be conduc­be passed by without someone The Student Union Social Com­ball, air hockey, foosball and days after Gilmore's 36th birthday. ted before midnight Dec. 6 totaking notice," explained the Uni­mission will sponsor "Down to the dancing lessons. Admission is Judge Bullock also denied a prevent questions about state lawversity Chaplain. 
Nightclub ... Bump City," a dance, free. 
petition for a certificate of probabl( which requires it follow the senten­The site of the celebration is the from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. tomorrow and All those interested in entering cause filed Tuesday by Tom Jones, cing date by no more than 60 days,University Club. A social hour will Saturday in the LaFortune the foosball, air hockey or pinball Gilmore's former attorney. Had the or fewer than 30. Gilmore was firstbegin at 6:30 p.m. followed by 
Ballroom. competitions must register by 5 jduge granted such a petition, the sentenced on Oct. 7.
dinner at 7:30p.m. Mass will also Special attractions include pin-p.m. Thursday by calling 7757. 
NotiC•!S Meg -Happy Birthday from every 
.one who loves you! Don't be too ANYONE FROM N.Y., N.J., OR CJ d Ad concerned­
~----------------~ 
;~• because tomorrow will MASS. INTERESTED IN TAKING 
AMTRAK FOR CHRISTMAS aass~ le s ~~~:_a~~~s~~-----­BREAK PICK UP FORMS IN STU­rs. A, J, A Kil'm -Your oranges DENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE LA­'were good. 
FORTUNE BLDG. IMMEDIATELY. REDUCED GROUP RATES AVAIL­Do you want to be a Catholic? Please 
( I lost my glassesl ... 
Wanted: Friends of the Zoo. Apply ~BLE. call 283-6536 or 283-3820 for infor­
in person, Fri. nile.
I again!!!! I 
mation about the Notre Dame Cate­
housemate spring

Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho, Need one for chumenate Program.
semester. Own unfurnished room in
232-0746. Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.
1
25!!! To the lucky finder of a clear I 
seven room house. $50.00 monthly
dskdlfgirlib 4ig4 4ib4ib ii4vnk SMC Senior -I'm waiting. Arco.
framed pair of glasses, lost in the 
plus utilities. Call 287-2702. vicinity of the bars. Thomas 
irogirtvtu8967 2084562079vn2903761 
Need typing? Professional Typing 
pov5 i m6u2 5 9086 bn 7 8 pw697 8 45n 962 
Service · Top Quality -convenient MEGAN LEW IS is 21 yrs. oldWalrath 5-76, is imprinted on frame.
• 
location. 232-0898 . TODAY!
If found call immediately -my eyes 
For Sale are going bad!!! Tom 288-0088. 
Free-Baby gerbils. Call 272-0495. Maggie, Keri, Teri, The Popcorn---------------Tom. Used to be a student here but
z~~~~;a;;;~~~~~~~~nd I
• Skis, Hart Freestyle, 195 em., 
Girl and friend, and you, too, Lisa ·
1
1 NEED MY GLASSES! Clear 
excellent condition, call 277-3762 frames lost in the BARMUDA TRI· 
lost his glasses at the bars. Now 
To all persons who know Megan Your very own Personal. 
n ites till midnight. dark glasses in Jazz Band. Fine plays blues harmonica and wears Lewis --Go out tonite and help 
celebrate her 21st birthday. STUDENT UNION IS TENTATIVE­
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~88 
BOOK SHOP. Used Books. Students LY PLANNING TO CHARTER ADo you need $25.00? I need my ~~:..?~~~~-.:~2~~~~~~4 .•
I 
Paradise. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. glasses. Clear frames with Thomas 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND BUS FROM NO TO O'HARE FOR 
9-7. Ralph Casperson Books, 1303PLEASE help find my glasses before 
$20-150. 1 day wait. 1 percent CHRISTMAS. INTERESTED STU­Walrath imprinted on inside frame. 
Buchanan Road. Niles, Mich. Luckily I couldn't see the Pitt game 
break . I would like to SEE my I 
interest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune DENTS SIGN UP WITH S.U. SEC­
683-2888.
parents. Call Tom at 289-0114. 
Basement. M-F. 11:15-12:15. RETARY 2ND FLOOR LAFOR­
• but would like to have them back by TUNE BY DEC. 7.
---------------I
Southern Cal. Use your eyes to save 
'73 Bega GT Hatchback, new en­mine. If found call tom at 288-0088. 
Riders needed to all destinations. 
gine, new tires, new eMilaust sys­tem, A-C, best offer, call 287-5655. 
I 
For in to call Bruce 8 906. Sen iortrippers (also underclass trip­
pers) Hope you enjoyed 'Barrels' of
THE CRISIS IS OVER!!

IGr~~;tc,-~!GI;s--;e--;t~--;o! ·----­
fun. 10-6-66 Light Sky DavidGlasses to go at McDonald's. But 
For Sale: 1 pair lge. Advents ­where are mine? Clear framed everyone can stop worrying. Over 
For Rent 

unopened. $225.00. Call Ed at 1492. 
Pineapples have incredible imagina­
• glasses lost in vicinity of bars. If the break I picked up a new pair of 
3 room furnished apt. Call 288-9533 tions and low-slanting foreheads.
I 
found call Tom at 289-0114. ·glasses! (Unfortunately I did not get 
utilities furnished. Shake 'n Baked ones clog sewage
--------------home until Wednesday -I took a 
Personals systems. Besides, they're ugly andOK! This is getting serious! 1 sat side trip to TENNESSEE, who can 

House close to campus . 5 bedrooms NOT toilet-trained.
and watched a tailgate party and read those damn road signs any-Attention all Notre Dame men! Call
for 3 to 5 people. Call 233-2613 after
• thought it was the game! Where are way?) But everything is all right now Joan Bontempo (6841 ) and tell her
5:30p.m. Can BARBIE dolls ski? Cause youthose glasses?!?! $25.00 reward for -I won't have to quit school, I can you love her. She's 22 today. 
sure can Dance.
• clear framed glasses lost near the SEE my teachers and make up for bars-Call Tom at 289-0114. the lost time. Much thanks to all 
Jer, By, M's-I'm sorry about Calc. • ---------------who helped out when I needed it 
Lost& Found We hope your day is full of good
Love, Chris spirits. Happy B-day Meg, from lst 
I 
No, 1 haven't found my glasses! I most. You can stop losing sleep out I 
Lost: Notre Dame ring left in Room floor Augusta
just couldn't find the Observer office there, Notre Dmae. It's time to 
I
Tonight only! Bowling for QUA­to put in another classified! Please move on to more pressing issues, I 
104 O'Shag. Has the initials MGM 
LUDES with Joan Bontempo. 8:30 at find clear framed glasses lost in like laundry, or Burtchaell. How­
·inside. If found please call Mike at Keri, Happy 19th. Enjoy a little Colt 
Shula's. vicinity of bars. $25 reward. Call ever, I could use an auxiliary pair so Tom at 289-0114. keep those Christmas contributions 
288-0088. 45, from the Girls on Fourth North. 
Deputy Dan, KMN, faked you out
Jumper cables at St. Joe Airport Last chance to get on Santa's "nice"
I 1
---------------coming. Any questions call Tom at 
I 
LNO, Tigger Thingsaregettingworse!!! I drove 289-0114; that's 289-0114. Out of I 
Monday morning; call 287-5655. listl Save me from a Blood(money). 
thirsty Greyhound. Need ride to St. 
to Bloomington and watched Indiana town please call collect. 
Found: Cross pen in front of Brigid -Milwaukee was fantastic. Louis Dec. 22. Just off highway 40 Iplay Oshkosh (I thought we lost). ---------------I 
LaFortune. Call 4-5234. I'II keep that button forever. JLB on Clayton. Call Maureen 6125 or Help find those glasses-clear framed ·-----· 
1715.
lost near bars. Call Tom 289-0114. 
I 

Biscuits, Teddipoo, Booby, Lar "G" Wanted Thanks Corky?
a bear hug from Pitts Princess, Queen
1--if-~~~;m-e~b;r thes~ ads , you know I 
Missed plane for Senior trip. Need Happy Birthday, Megan! KKM ride to San Diego on about 20th. Call 
T.E.A.R.F.R. 
I am head over heels in love with you
Ithe power of Observer Classifieds. I don'tt 
Tim at 1715 nights. Joe, Still don't know who this is? 
(as if you didn't know). 
Check Monday's paper for a hint. 
T.K.F.F.L

Doc Pierce's Saloon & Restaurant is hiring full or part-time NOW. Host­To the nerd that took 3 notebooks
I I had to buy a new pair of gl_asses! 1 
Crash, Cam, Julio, Ernst, MISS
esses, bartenders, waiters, wait­and Calculus book from M. Library
YOU! the x-Babe
I But why not reach someone you love 1 
ressesm busboys, line cooks, prep Tuesday morning, please leave cooks. Will schedule around aca­them in the Library Lost and ound
Megan: Now you won't have to use
demic committments. Apply in per­before Thurs., finals are here!
1 with an 1 
my ID. Happy B-day! Love, Mj
son between 2 and 4 p.m. at 120 North Main Street, Mishawaka. Happy Birthday to Tom Kenny from
Cher Jacques Bonhomme, Your
Phone 255-7737. An equal oppor­the Lyman girl.
handwriting's showing. MarieHetunity employer. 
Malfemme
1Pi!~'3' Observer """'~ 
JD, Let's play. G Happy Birthdat Megan. The Boys at 
Marty, Thanks for the dinner. Tell
801 St. Louis. Happy 19th birthday, Tom. Love,
Jack I said hello. Tom 
DebbaLou I need a ride to the Orlando, Florida 
Rumplestiltskin and Co. You're
area for Christmas. Share driving Tommy -Congrats on becoming a
~~~~tV,\\~lr:iU~i. 
NERDS!
and expenses. Call Doug 1612. legal Stroh's lllinoisian today.
1 Rates are 10 words for $f.o{), I 
..

Mr. & Mrs. Corcoran -Thanks ­
Wanted to buy or copy: the 1974 Bob of The Guys, Welcome back! 
Tom
and-or 1973 Organic tests. Will pay That'll teach you not to work so
I more words go at a cheaper rate. I 
reasonable asking price. Karen · hard! G
Oh my goodness! Zoo Day is still6994. 
coming. 
Dear Snadrina, The turkey turned
I 
Come-on up to the Observer and let your I 
Ride needed to California for Christ­'into a blast, hope your blast didn't 
Clem, 1still have your camera-hope
mas. Will share expenses & driving. tum Into a turkey. Hope your 
you feel better. Mi ._,,·--------------t.Dve ya, YON 
Call 4688. California trip was the "greatest" I
friends SEE how much yo~ care. I 
.. 
Mr. & Mrs. Dempsey -Thanks ­
Need a ride to Bloomington, Indiana 
I 
Tom
or that area for weekend of Dec. 4 ­
I If someone DOES find those glasses ~ _______________ ~:~e& !~co~~-~~~~:~ ~~ 
can leave Friday. Call Sue 7938.
Wlder the snow, call Tom at 283-85.49. ' ---------------~;~~ctoaiTioPegledgoynae:'~~s:riday, Dec. whstuendleyits the biggest, Its the bestl 
Need housemates 4 miles; good neighborhood; furnished, color TV, -----------------------------­
\ ...._ Than.-~.k f<?r.re~ding. ~ I DOOI table. $60 includes utilities. ~~:..'~~~~!:.~~...,...,...,-,-,..., '' I!:I~.P..! Birthday ...... "" ......j 
......------...... ....kb:l.~,j,j,,21w.lll.ll6..11-------...----....;------.;.lli.......-...lllllllli_______•
... 
the observer Thursday, December 2, 1976 
Cagerstame Broncos 
Fred Herbst In the half Cal Poly shot an "That's what we play for, a big Sports Editor incredible 63 percent from the floor spurt," Phelps said. "We hope to to keep themselves near the Irish. get one every game and make the 
What can you say about a Henry Randolph and Don Johnson other team fold. Tonight we got one basketball game between Cali­paced the Bronco attack in the at the beginning of the second half fornia Polytechnic at Pomona and opening staza with eight points when they left Dice (Martin) alone. Notre Dame? apiece. Jack Camulin added six. He really got us going." 
"This is a step toward an NCAA The Irish also shot very well in Martin scored 11 points in the bid. and that's all it is," Irish head the half, hitting on 59 percent of contest, seven in the second half. coach Digger Phelps said. "We their shots from the floor. Williams "We played well in the first half, just had to make sure that they paved the way for the Notre Dame but we needed some one to give us didn't make national headlines at offense as he was six for six from a boost in the second half," Martin our expense. We just had to blow the floor and four for four from the remarked. "That's what I tried to them out." free-throw line for 16 points. Dave do. " 
Blow Cal Poly out the Irish did, Batton and Bill Paterno each added Williams paced Notre Dame with 93-67. The game was never in eight markers in the first half. 24 points. The output tied his doubt as Notre Dame took the lead Ray "Dice" Martin opened the career high that he scored against on the tilt's first shot by Duck second half for the Irish by hitting St. Bonaventure last season. Bruce Williams. From that point on, the three of Notre Dame's first four Flowers added 16 for the winners only question was how many would shots to start the team on a spurt. while Dave Batton chipped in with the Irish win by. The Irish then proceeded to ten points as did Rich Branning. 
Notre Dame broke out fast, outscore the Broncos 22-10 in the Branning and Bill Hanzlik, the building a 29-14 lead with eight first nine minutes of the half to two freshmen members of the Irish minutes to play in the first half. But break the game wide open. With 11 squad, played 18 and II minutes the Broncos used some torrid minutes to play, Notre Dame had respectively. After last night's shooting to close within eleven at built a commanding 68-45 advan-. game and Saturday's Maryland the half, 46-35. tage. game, there is little doubt thai the 
two are major college ball players. "When we recruit, we recruit guys who can make things happen," Phelps said. "Branning and Hanz­lik can make things happen." The win upped the Irish's record to 2-0, while Cal Poly dropped their third decision in as many outtings. 
"We've only won two game, we have 25 left," said a cautious Phelps. "I don't want people to think that we're a powerhouse and that the National Cahmpionship is ours. We have to earn it. But I'll tell you one thing, we'll be heard from in March." 
*Observer 
Sports 


NOTRE DAME 93 CAL POLY 67 
Player FG Ff TP Player FG Ff TP Batton 4 2-2 10 
Ganmlin 6 0-0 12 Paterno 4 0-0 8 
Randolph 6 1-1 13 Flowers 7 2-3 16 Johnson. D. 5 0-0 10 
Williams 9 6-6 24 

Webb 3 1-1 7 Martin 5 1-2 11 
Ispas 0 0-0 0 Knight 3 0-0 6 Hardin 2 0-0 4 Branning 4 2-4 10 Johnson, C. J 0-0 6 Hanzlik 0 2-2 2 
Bernhard I 1-2 3 Kuzmicz 0 0-0 0 
Weisse I 0-0 2 Carpenter I 0-0 2 Caloway 5 0-0 10 Haefner I 0-0 2 Totals 32 3-4 67 Sahm 0 0-1 0 
Healy 0 0-0 0 Fabian I 0-0 2 Totals 39 15-20 93 

Halftime-Notre Dame 46, Cal Poly 35. Fouled out-None. Total fouls-Cal Poly 17, Notre Dame II. Technical-C. Johnson. A-10,993 

Dorsett disregards Heisman jinx 
by Herschel Nlssenson been a dream of mine and I'm just "I don't think size has too much AP Sports Writer hoping to get a contract with some to do with it," Dorsett says. "It club. I just hope my pro career will depends on heart, on how much 
NEW YORK [API -Reisman be as good as my college career." you put into it. You only get as Trophy winners Archie Griffin and That would be very, ·very good much out of something as you put John Cappelletti are making it in since Dorsett holds the all-time into it. When I was being recruited the pros. But Pat Sullivan flunked NCAA single-season and career in high school, one coach --I think out, Jim Plunkett has been having rushing records and also is the top he was from Kentucky --told me I his prohlems and Johnny Rodgers scorer in histary. But the NFL. was too small to play at his spurned the National Football which probably would have con­school." League in favor of Canada. sidered King Kong too small, tends Dorsett certainly wasn't too 
Steve Owens did all right on the to frown on non-giants and Dorsett slow. He blazed-a 4.35-second few occasions when he wasn't is "only" 5-foot-11 and 192 40-yard dash for the pro scouts last
TOLEDO, Oblo [AP] -Toledo shot 36 percent from the floor, hampered by knee injuries and pounds. spring and that wasn'tquickfor him.
University's outsized Rockets, led compared to Toledo's 43 percent. 
Steve Spurrier has been hanging on

by Stan Joplin's 21 points and a Both teams turned the ball over 
for a decade or so, but Gary Behan, 

tenacious team defense, edged nine times. 
defending national champion The Rockets' biggest man, 6-8 
John Huarte, and Terry Baker Indiana 59-57 in a nonconference Dave Speicher, had only 3 points, 
couldn't cut it, Pete Dawkins and 

Irish await 32nd Gator Bowl 
basketball game last night. but Miller got 14 for the winners Joe Bellino didn't try and Ernie Toledo, before a screaming and 6-5 Ted Williams had 15. 
Davis died before he could play for 

by Paul Stevenson nents have played in the contest.
pay.

standing-room-only crowd of more The Hoosiers came back from a Of the last 17 Reisman winners, Sports Writer South Carolina, Miami (Fla.), Pitt­than 9,600 at the dedication of a 42-29 deficit early in the second only O.J. Simplson 1969, Mike sburgh, Georgia Tech and Alabama new field house, out-rebounded the half to pull even, but then ran out Garrett 1965, Roger Staubach 1963 The thirty-second annual Gator have all participated in the classic.
Hoosiers, 38-36. of gas and the Rockets' defense and Billy Cannon 1959 could be Bowl will pit the Fighting Irish of The Irish's upcoming opponentThe Rockets' 6-6'/z freshman, swarmed all over the taller visitors. 
described as having gone on to any Notre Dame against the Nittany for the battle has visited Jackson­Dick Miller, had 13 rebounds to The Rockets broke away from a kind of pro football stardom. Lions of Penn State on Dec. 27 in ville for three previous Gator Bowlmatch the total of Indiana's 6-11 49-49 deadlock with 6:10 to play, In fact, starting with Jay Jacksonville, Fla. The classic will Classics. In 1961, Penn StateKent Benson. pouring in six straight points to ice Berwanger, the first Reisman win­mark the fourth meeting between downed Georgia Tech 30-15. TheThe Rockets broke away from a the game. 
ner in 1935, who turned down what the two schools, with Notre Dame Nittany Lions returned the follow­49-49 deadlock with 6:10 to play, The real star was a tenacious he considered a paltry offer from holding a 3-0-1 lead in the series. ing year. only to be defeated 17-7pouring in six straight points to ice team defense that swarmed all over the Chicago Bears and went into The Gator Bowl Stadium was by Florida. 1967 marked Pennthe game. the bigger visitors. Toledo coach private business instead, not one originally called Municipal Field State's last appearance in the bowl,Benson's 17 points led Indiana, Bob Nichols gave the game ball to Reisman Trophy recipient has when it was established back in in which battle, they tied Floridabut only one other Hoosier -­6-2 senior guard, Jeff Seeman, who made it as far as the Pro Football 1926 to seat 7500 people for high State at 17.
Wayne Radford with 10--managed failed to score a point, but was all Hall of Fame, although Simpson school competition. Due to the
to reach double figures. Indiana over the court on defense. Last year, Maryland faced Flor­
probably has one foot on the interest in the Gator Bowl Classic ida in the classic, which found the threshold. and the Florida-Georgia game, Terrapins on the winning side by a Is the Reisman Trophy a jinx? which is also played annually in the 
13-0 score. "I'm not superstitious at all," stadium, there have been five The Gator Bowl has had some
Final Statistics 
says Tony Dorsett, the University major additions to upgrade the familiar names performing on theof Pittsburgh's brilliant record­stadium. The actual stands allowINDIANA 57 TOLEDO 59 field. Fred Biletnikoff (Floridabreaking running back and the for a seating capacity of 65,214, but State), Archie Manning ('Ole Miss) latest Reisman winner. "I was with chair and field seats thePlayer FG Ff TP Player FG Ff TP and Floyd Little (Syracuse) are justsupposed to hav~ qeen jinxed quite maximum size is increased to overMiday 3 0-0 6 Williams 5 5-6 15 a few of the gridders who have 
a few times in 'may career, but I 72,000.
Woodson 2 2-2 6 Miller 4 6-7 14 participated in the annual bowl.
haven't been. The first Gator Bowl featuredBenson 5 7-8 17 Speicher 1 1-4 3 The largest monetary share to"I had an outstanding season my Wake Forest and South Carolina, in Radford 3 4-4 10 Joplin 9 3-5 21 participants was set in 1974 whenjunior year in high school and which the Deacons rambled overWisman 3 0-0 6 Seeman 0 0-0 0 Auburn downed Texas 27-3. In thepeople said, 'That's it.' It was the Gamecocks 26-14.
Valavicius 1 4-4 6 Selgo 0 0-0 0 contest, both schools receivedsupposed to be a jinx, but I had The all-time Gator Bowl recordHolcomb 0 0-0 0 Appel 1 0-2 2 
another outstanding season my crowd was 72,248 established in $243,014.21. Notre Dame and Penn Eells 0 0-0 0 Gleason 1 2-4 4 
senior year. 1969 when Florida met Tennessee. State are guarranteed a minimum Grunwald 1 0-0 2 Gould 0 0-0 0 "Being on the cover of Sports In the battle, which marked the of $300,000 for their participation
.. 
Roberson 2 0-0 4 Totals 2117-28 59 
in the classic, establishing the bowlIllustrated was supposed to be a silver anniversary of the GatorTotals 20 17-18 57 

jinx, but it wasn't. Bowl, the Gators defeated the Vols as the fifth largest post-season "I really don't care about any 
14-13. . classic. Halftime-Indiana 27, Toledo 27. 
jinxes. What's meant to be is Although Notre Dame has never The game will be nationally Total fouls-Indiana 19, Toledo 19. A-9,662. 
gonna be. I don't know ·what lies made an appearance in the bowl, televised on ABC with kickoff ahead. Playing pro ball has always some of their 1976 season oppo-scheduled for 9 p.m. (EST).
-·­

_,.------------------" 






