
-------------------------------------------------~--------­
positions were filled by Ann ran "smoothly and legally." The Deighan, Shelley Meditz and Pat next campus election is that for the 
Former Ambassador !killed 
Payne. Holy Cross's fourth vacan­freshman class officers. Any SMC cy was not filled because only three freshman wishing to run mustattendby Jay Perkins frame. Parts were scattered as far minister of interior before Allende 
candidates ran. McCandless rep­a meeting Wednesday night at the
Associated Press Writer as SO feet. was killed and his government 
resentatives are Cathy Murphy, Clubhouse at 8:00. InformationThe explosion occurred less than overthrown in September of 1973. 
Ginny Nask, and Sue Ursitti. regarding the formation of candi-­a block from the Chilean Embassy He spent a year in prison in Chile Of the three candidates who ran dates' tickets and a possible pri­WASHINGTON AP -A former that Letelier commanded for two after the revolution. 
for LeMans' vacancy, none re­mary election will be provided.
Chilean ambassador to the United years. Letelier came back to the United ceived a majority of the vote. A Nominations open September 23States and a woman colleague were Letelier and the Moffitts worked States after Secretary of State run-off vote on Monday between and platforms are due :Septemberkilled Wednesday when a bomb for the Trans National Institute; a Henry A. Kissinger intervened Claire Hatch and Debbie Simone 30. The freshman election will beripped through their car as they division of the Washington-based with Chilean authorities and had showed Simone the winner. Rep's held October 7.
drove past the embassy he once research organization Institute for him freed from prison. occupied, hospital officials said. Policy Studies. Letelier also had 
Killed by the blast were Orlando been teaching at American Univer­Letelier, 44, ambassador from sity in Washington. Chile during +.he regime of the late The explosion was immediately 
Local bars cite senseless losses 
Marxi!>t President Salvador Allen­denounced as a political assassina­de. and Ronnie Karpen Moffitt, 25, tion by some of Letelier's co-work­by Mary EDen Keenan which he traced to the bartenders 'number stolen each night. who worked with Letelier at a ers at the institute and by the Stailf Reporter who gave free drinks to friends and The extensive and expensive research institute. Mrs. Moffitt's Council on Hemispheric Affairs, a those who had discrepancies be­damage which is done by students husband. Michael, was seriously private organization that advocates Managers of local bars charge tween cash .register receipts and restricts bar owners fro,m returning injured. suspension of U. S. economic and student bartenders last year with .actual funds.~ profit back to the bars, Bullet 
Information on the identities and military aid to Latin American the loss of more than $19,000 in Other bar managers interviewed stated. on a bomb as the cause of death nations that violate human rights. gross revenue. The managers of declined to state exact figures The previous problems with stu­came from officials at George Richard Barnett, a co-director of The Library, Nickie's, Fat Wally's, which their records show as losses dent bartenders has not caused the Washington University hospital. the institute, said there was and Corby's also estimate that an attributed to student bartenders. owners to look to other sources for where the three victims were taken "enough evidence" to suspect that equally impressive amount is lost However, the sums to which they employees. Each considers their 
after the explosion. Police declined Letelier was killed by Chilean each year by what they term referred put the bars' losses at well ,establishment a Notre Dame bar to answer questions until their intelligence agencies. The council "senseless destruction" by student over $19,000. ., ,and they all want to keep it that investigation was complete. The agreed, saying "It is so secret that patrons. According to Bullet, manager of way. Federal Bureau of Investigation Letelier was an ardent opponent of The bars were contacted to Nickie's, an "unbelievable a­However, changes have been and the Treasury Department also the repressive ruling military re­determine whether local estab­mount" of damage is done by 'instituted in the local bars to curb were investigating the explosion. gime in Chile" and adding "The lishments lose a substantial students each year. Kanser of The ·bartenders' abuses. After last Letelier had been a frequent murder of Letelier ... must be consi­amount of revenue because their Library reported a $10,000 damage year's losses, Kanser instituted a 
critic of the military group that now dered as merely the latest effort at student employees give away­expenditure each year. more thorough screening process rules Chile, and opponents of that intimidating the Chilean exiled drinks and what extent of damage Nickie's major repair bills are an for applicants. Another means of government immediately claimed community by DINA, the dreaded is done by student patrons. Each outgrowth of the "constant fear of supervsion at The Library include a 
the killing was political terrorism. secret police of Chile under the bar manager, however, empha­customers tearing the johns metered liquor count--that service The blast ripped through 'the direct control of President August sized his satisfaction with present apart." Last year that bar lost the cost $12,000 to install. former amb!lssador's car as Pinochet." services of two complete bathrooms Fat Wally's has the most com­
it employees and that the data provi­passed through Sheridan Circle on Letelier served as ambassador to ded concerns past experiences. because sinks were ripped out of plete ·mechanized service. Eacb Washington's Embassy Row. Both the United States from 1971 to Rick Kanser, owner of TheLi­the wall and toilets were broken. station has meters for drafts and 
the roof and hood of the car were 1973. returning to Chile at the brary since 1973, said that last year Paul Rizzo, manager of Fat pitchers which are tallied against buckled by the force of the explo­request of Allende to become his was his only bad experience deal­Wally's, estimates that his Sep­the registers' totals at the end of sion and the outside paneling on country's foreign minister. He also ing with student bartenders. The tember plumbing bill will cost the evening, The cash register 
the driver's door was blown off its served as minister of defense and Library lost approximately $15,000 between $300-$400. Rick Kanser receipt prints out in code what was estimated his annual bathroom purchased and at what cost. However, manager Paul Rizzo em­
of these phasized that these meters are only .managers IS the amount of glass-as good as the people that use them 
'term.1111ated ''rer;~~~~r~~!fo~~ncern



Subway a I Um n .I 
ware which is stolen or broken. and so are just one part of the Bullet conducted an inventory of
zation, each contributing a $15 controls management employs. 
membership fee. The primary the beer pit~,:hers present at the "O.B.," manager of Corby's, time of the interview and found 15
purpose. of the organization, said that he employs no real 
ae,cording to Conklin, was fund had been stolen Monday night. He supervision over student bartend­valued each pitcher at $1.50. Over He merely "lets them know
raising. ers. Fr. Rioux, former executive dir­Purdue weekend, Bullet said 150 their responsibilities and wants tumbler glasses were stolen, each
ectorofthe Subway Alumni Associa­them to use their common sense." 
valued at 25 cents. Managers of
tion, explained that the University Tight daily inventories are part
The Library and Fat Wally's each
anticipated membership to reach of each bar's routine. 
reported a $500 monthly bill to Kanser stated that the hardest
50,000 over a period of two to three years. He said that the program replace glassware. This means a part of his job is to convince the concluded with a ''modest sur­$6,000 annual replacement bill for bartenders that. operating a bar is a 
them.
plus'' of funds, after the deduction serious business. "It's tough to of advertising, mailing and miscel­Nickie's manager emphasized expect a bartender to maintain a laneous expenses. that "students are screwing them­business-like attitude when every­
"We could not expect a re­selves" by such actions because one around him is partying," he stricted number of Notre Dame the money to cov.er the damages explained. The other difficulty alumni to keep tuition at a mini­must be reflected in the costs the with students, Kanser ncited, is 
mum," Fr. Rioux said. "We bars charge patrons. There is also that they view giving free drinks as wanted to take advantage of Notre the added inconvenience of the being entirely different from steal­Dame's prominence and the le­limited supply of beer pitchers ing funds from the cash register. gions of non-alumni who would like available during the weekends. It Student_s just don't correlate these 
is such a serious matter at Nickie's
to be included in the Notre Dame "freebies" with stealing, he sum­
family.'' that the management is consider­marized, and so they don't realize Indicative of the program's fail­ing inbstituting a one dollar deposit what they're giving away in terms fee on pitchers to reduce the
AIS U B WAY 
ure, Fr. Rioux noted, was the of money. 

umnus 
minimal response to newspaper -


e server 
umversity of notre dame st m,"Jry's college Volume XI, No. 17 Wednesday, September 22, 1976 
Outside Chilean Embassy ­
advertising.
©UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
"We ran a full-page ad in the Boston Globe last year on the by Thomas O'Neil was made. 
weekend of the Boston College
Editor-in-Chief "The Subway Alumni Associa­football game," he said. "Only 45
Members of the Notre Dame tion didn't bring in the numbers to persons responded to the ad... Subway Alumni Association were justify the time and expense the "Our underlying problem,, notified in a June newsletter that University was making," Richard Conklin said, •'was transfering the organization had been termina­Conklin, director of Notre Dame the athletic allegiance of non-ted. public information, said. alumni to an academic institution. 
"We have decided to terminate "Our considered judgemtnt," We realized that athletics was the the Subway Alumni Association he said, ''was that our time and primary link we had with these and incorporate its members into a money could be spent in a better people and could not simply appeal larger group of some 20,000 Notre way." to their interest in our athletic Dame friends, thus drawing toge­The Notre Dame Subway Alumni program and thereby re-inforce the ther all non-alumni supporters 'lind Association was founded in the stereotype that Notre Dame is bringing them closer to the univer­Spring of 1975 under the direction nothing more than a football fac­sity," the newsletter read. of Fr. J. Robert Rioux, director of tory. • • 
Other than notifying its members, the Alumni Fund. During its "We were dealing in limited however, no University announce­one-year existen~e approximately resources. in terms of people and ment of the group's termination 

SMC elections fill vacant posts 
positions for off-campus studentsby Cathy Cauley were already filled. 
StaffReporter 

The Student Assembly is a student congress made up of 19 representatives. It works in conjuc­
SMC Student Assembly elections tion with the Board of Regents and 
on Friday, September 17, and the Administration on various is­yesterday have filled nearly all sues during the year. The remain­representative positions. Students der of the representatives' posi­ran from their particular hall; the tions for the Assembly were filled number of vacancies was decided after elections held in Spring.by student population: one rep per Campus election chairmen 
100 students. Maria-Lisa Mignanelli and Carla Regina Hall's single vacancy Iacone reported tha~ the elections 
Presley to play ACC 
Elvis Presely, the undisputed filled only if there are anv tickets ''King of Entertainment," will remaining after the first d~y of box return to Notre Dame for a live office sale. in-concert performance at the Ath-Announcing the concert at a letic and Convocation Center, press reception in the ACC' s Wed., Oct. 20, at 8:30p.m. Monogram Room, John F. Plouff. 
Tickets for the concert will be managing director of the ACC. $12.50 for all padded seats and commented, "We were extremely front-stage bleachers, $10 for side-pleased to have had Elvis here in stage bleachers and $7.50 for 1974 and it seems apparent from rear-stage bleachers. Tickets wi!I the fact that he attracted over be on sale only at the ACC box 24,000 people for a two-show oftice at Gate 10 starting at 9 a.m. appearance that the people in the tomorrow. No ticket line will be Michiana area were pleased to 
permitted to form before 6 p.m. have him here also. To have Elvis tonight. choose to appear at Notre Dame Mail orders for tickets will be uain is our aood fnrtn.... ''
3,000 non-alumni joined the organi­
[continued to page 3] '-•::,:.~~~~~~~~~~..:.C~~~:ui~~~~~~W...--~ 
~--~ -----~----­
Wednesday, September 22, 1976
the observer 

~--News Briefs--"""" 
I=========================International 
'A noble task' 
KINSHASA, Zaire -Henry A. Kissinger, reported carrying the word to black African leaders that Rhodesian Prime Minister Ian Stnith has accepted the principle of black majority rule, was welcomed here last night as a man with "a noble task." The secretary of State flew here from Dar es Salaam, where Tanzanian President Julius Nyerere--declaring himself no longer "gloomy" about the prospects--quoted Kissinger as saying Smith has accepted the principle of a power transfer to Rhodesia's black majority within 18 months to two years. 

f::::::=================================Natio nal 
No objections 
BOSTON-Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., says he doesn't object to re-opening the investigation into the assassination of his brother, the late President John 
F. Kennedy. However, Kennedy said he's not convinced another probe is needed. 

Chicago Archdiocese sued 
CHICAGO -The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Chicago has been sued for allegedly pirating hymns. 
F.E.L. Publications of Los Angeles filed suit Monday in federal court, charging John Cardinal Cody, archbishop of Chicago, and five of his churches with copyright infringement and seeking $180,000 in damages. 
Appeal on abortion ru!_ing 
INDIANAPOUS-Atty. Gen. Theodore L. Sendak has appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court a federal court ruling that part of the Indiana abortion law is unconstitutional. Sendak said the part of the law requiring abortions to be performed in a hospital or other licensed health care facility should not have been struck down. 
.,__On Campus Today---.... 
1-4:30 --open house, placement bureau, ad. building. 
4:30 --seminar, "antibiotics, bile acids and cholesterol" by dr. david c. madsen, n.d. galvin aud.. coffee at 4:15. 
5:15 --mass, sponsored by world hunger coalition for those fasting tonight, in conjunction with national concern for hunger week, sacred heart church. 
6:30 
--meeting, sailing club, 303 engineering building. 

6:30 
--meeting, aiesic, Iafortune ballroom. 


7:00 --meeting, impirt, basement of Iafortune. 
8:00 --meeting, bag brothers, senior club. attendance mandatory. 
8:15 --concert, enio bolognini, cello, rhea shelter, piano (with louis sudler, baritone, and patrick maloney, tenor) library auditorium. 



Carter doesn't abort stand 
WASHINGTON (AP) -With missionary zeal, but without suc­cess, Jimmy Carter has been trying to convince antiabortion demons­trators in his campaign crowds that their views and his are not all that different. 
Like his critics on the issue, the Democratic presidential nominee is a declared for of abortion. He promises to do everything he can, short of changing the U.S. Consti­tution, to minimize the practice. 
But the placards and the chants continue because Carter will not 
endorse . a constitutional amend­ment to forbid abortion or to let the states do so. 
President Ford now favors an amendment that would give the states the constitutional right to pass laws of their own to control abortion. 
The abortion issue is a nagging one for Carter, who has no room for maneuver on the subject. Carter says he'll just have to weather it. 
"I wish that I could agree with you on everything, but I don't think 
. it is right for me to ch,nge my position just because this_ is an election year," Carter told a group of antiabortion pickets in an airport crowd in Bismarck, N.D., last week. Often, he speaks directly to the demonstrators, telling them he sympathizes with their position against abortion, if not with their 
prQposed constitutional remedy. 
"I see that you're concerned for the unborn,'' he told an antiabor­tion picket in Cleveland. "You're absolutely right. I'd do everything I can as President to hold down the need for abortion and I'll work with you on it... " 
Entering his Phoenix hotel. Car­ter went out of his way to shake hands with a small cluster of supporters, and walked into a predictable argument about abor­tion. A bright red sign that said "Abortion Is Murder" advertised the presence of his critics. 
"You'd have a lot of people to vote for you if you'd change your mind," a woman said. 
"Well, I'm not pro-abortion," Carter said. "You are pro-abortion," she snapped back. "No, I'm not, Ma'am," Carter replied. 
In Phoenix, Bismarck, and at other stops along Carter's route, the antiabortion protesters have held their own rallies and news conferences in advance of his arrival, to draw attention to their protest and to turn out their pickets. 
"I see the demonstrators over there and I sympathize with your right to let your views be known," he said at one stop. "I think abortions are wrong. I think 
[continued to page 6] 


SBP Gassman speaks to HPC 
byTom Byrne Senior Staff Reporter 
Student Body President Mike 

Gassman appeared at the weekly 
meeting of the Hall Presidents 
Council and discussed upcoming 
plans for the Student Body Con­
gress. 
''The Congress is going to meet 

next Wednesday night in LaFor­
tune auditorium," announced 
Gassman. "The reason we waited 
was the budget hearings on Sun­
day. We'd like to have a rundown 
to give everybody then." 
The student government budget hearings will determine how the approximately $85,000 collected through the student activities fee is distributed among the campus clubs and organizations. Among the groups seeking funds Sunday will be the HPC. 
Gassman expressed hope that the Congress would allow for smoother operation of the various groups on campus. "Maybe we can avoid scheduling conflicts," he said, adding that the agenda would largely involve a "discussion on activities.'' 
HPC chairman J. P. Russell indicated afterward that the Con­gress ''had a lot of potential if it's done right.:' He noted that the project would only be worthwhile if it provided sufficient time and an atmosphere for meaningful dis­cussion. 
Budget committee appointed 

The council moved to form a budget committee-to determine how much each hall would receive from the funds obtained at the student government budget hear­ings. The presidents on the 6-member committee, determined by lottery, are Nancy Siegler of Breen-Phillips, Tom Denten of Pangborn, Terry Philbin of Grace, George Velcich of Cavanaugh, and Mike Doyle of Morrissey. The committee is chaired by HPC executive coordinator Keefe Mont­gomery, who is also president of Stanford. 
Russell told the council that he would go to Sunday's budget hearings hoping to receive "a little more than last year." The HPC was allotted $7700 for the hall life fund in 1975, and according to Russell about $300 allocated to the halls was not spent. 
"I'm going in with the pitch that we'll use everything we ask for," he said, and remarked that this HPC was a "new group." 
The budget committee will con­sider requests for_money from all the halls, with preference given to special projects, such as reno­vations. Russell added that the funds should be used for "some­thing permanent,'' such as a rug or television set. 

Tom McMahon 
General Agenl 



John Wahman 
Agent 
l!lill 
. 

Karen 'Wentland 
Agent 
'\ 



Diane Long 
Agem 
Hall volunteer services 

Dr. Joe McTaggert, representing Community Services, urged the council to "keep in touch" with the Community Services Director with­in each hall. He stated that in all halls except Alumni, a director had already been appointed. The organization conducts hall volun­teer projects, in coordination with local parishes and other groups. 
Citing jurisdictional confusion, McTaggert asked the presidents to refuse any volunteer project "until it goes through the proper chan­
[continued to page 6] 

'Tearafh.·r 'car.I semester~tftcr Sl'mcstcr. the ( 'ollc~ci\ Iastl·r from Fidelit\ l nion Ijf{.· has llt't'll the mo"'it tH.'l'l'pt ed. lllO"'it popular plan on campu...,es all mt•r .\merit'a. 

Find out "In. (·all till' Fidl'lih l'nion 

Collt·~c\ la~ooitcr 
Field Assodatt• m Your area: 
915E .-Ceda;­South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 
_•.~:t 
-~ ((-;Jic~C\ b~tl'r 


discussion in yesterday's Council. meeting of the Student Life 
(Photo by janet Carney) 





SLC discusses coed life 
by Joe Gill 
Staff Reporter 

The initial meeting of the Stu­dent Life Council (SLC) opened yesterday with a discussion of the recently-created committee on coeductional life instituted by Fr. Burtchaell and its relation to the SLC Campus Life committee. 
The SLC committee last year conducted various studies in this area, and a few members felt the particular concentration of the SLC was overlooked by the formation of the new committee. 
Mike Casey, newly-elected SLC chc.irman, said he was "unhappy that the SLC wasn't recognized in this area. Hopefully, they'll work with our committees." 
Student Body President Mike Gassman said that he "personally felt it was a slight toward the SLC, especially since the students on his committee (Burtchaell's) are not from the SLC." "Fr. Burtchaell's committee was set up separately," Gassman said, "and it should have been set up through the Council." 
Dean.of Students James Roemer felt "optimistic that their commit­tee and ours could work together and be very productive," and commented that the different back­grounds of the members of both committees would be effe<:tive together. 
North Quad Representative Ed Van Tassel suggested contacting Fr. Burtchaell and finding out how his committee will be working, and Casey indicated his agreement. 
In other deveopments, Roemer proposed that the first tern min'!.tes 
of each meeting be designated as an "executive session," in which only members of the SLC (inclu­ding the SBP) would attend. The rest of the meeting would then be open to the public and the media. The motion was voted on and passed. 
The four Standing Committees of the SLC will be continued this year, consisting of Capus Life, Planning and Policy, Rules andRegulations, and Off-Campus and Community Relations. Casey said the "groundwork is being laid and dis 
cussed in the individual commi­ttees and will be brought before the Council at the next meeting." 
Van Tassel was elected Vice­Chairman and Brother Just Pac­zesny was elected Parliamentarian. 

-~ 


McCandless Hall residents 
have been disturbed by the 
noise and dust created by 

In Africa 
cause of the dust, and the noise in the morning wakes us up."
Kissinger hopeful Hall director, Diane Benjamin, 
DAR ES SALAAM, Tanzania ­Secretary of State Henry Kissinger was reported yesterday to be carrying the word to black African Leaders that Prime Minister Ian Smith has accepted the principle of rule by Rhodesia's black majority within 18 months to two years. 
Tanzanian President Julius Ny­erere told reporters that Kissinger had revealed Smith's position dur­ing a 90-minute meeting after the secretary flew here from Zambia on his mission for racial peace in southern Africa. 
Kissinger left for Kinshasa, Zaire, after the meeting. 
Nyerere said he was no longer "gloomy about prospects for a Rhodesian settlement" and awaits a public statement from Smith's regime-expected Friday-that ac­cepts terms for a settlement. 
In Salisbury, the Rhodesian cap­ital, Smith spent 3112 hours outlin­ing to his cabinet the proposals offered to him at his Sunday meeting with Kissinger. Smith said the cabinet would study the plan--"even sleep on it, even dream on it"--before deciding its position today. 
He added that the final decision to accept or reject would emerge after a scheduled briefing Thurs­day of his caucus--50 members of · the 66-member parliament. 
Besides a commitment to black majority rule within two years, the British-American plan put before Smith calls for a constitutional conference in Geneva; the broaden­ing of the Rhodesian cabinet to include black nationalists, and a $2-billion fund financed by the United States, Britain, South Africa and other nations to compensate whites who leave Rhodesia and to help develop the country under black rule. 
"My mood is better," Nyerere said at news converence after his meeting with Kissinger. But he added a note of caution: "Life is full of imponderables. And Smith is an imponderable." 
Rhodesia, a land of 270,000 whites and some 6 million blacks, was a British colony until the Smith regime unilaterally declared its independence in 1965. Brita;n has refused to make a political settle­ment agreeing to the independence until provision is made for majority rule. The British are also demand­ing that Smith renounce the unilat­eral independence declaration and agree not to filibuster during the negotiations between Rhodesia's white and black nationalist parties. 
Nyerere said the British-Ameri-

Subway alumni 
[continued from oage 1] _ 
money," Conklin contmued. "We couldn't even afford to find out why 
it failed." . 
Notre Dame friends, which now includes the Subway Alumni, con­sists of contributing non-alumni. Parents who sponsor their child­ren's education at Notre Dame make up the largest number of . Notre Dame friends. 
Wednesday, September 22, 1976 the observer 


McCandless residents disturbed 
·co.nstruction annoys students 
by Jean Powley Staff Reporter 

The Saint Mary's student body will eventually re:ap the benefits of the college's new recreationaf facil­ity which is now under construc­tion. However, many residents of the north side of McCandless Hall feel that they are paying the price for everyone else's enjoyment. 
"When we first got back, the noise and dust that the construction caused was a real pain," said Maureen Rothfuss, a fifth floor resident. "They woke us up at seven every morning with the sound of bulldozers and pounding. Also,. the dust was terrible. It bothered our eyes and dirtied the room. We would've closed the windows but it was just too hot.
the construction of St. 

We're used to it now."
Mary's new athletic 
Another fifth floor student, Lynnfacility. 

Roberts, agreed, saying, "We have to keep our windows closed be­
can plan envisages the formation of said that she had about half a dozen 
a transitional government for Rho-complaints about noise, dust, bad desia that "calls off tbe war," odors, and construction workers apparently meaning black guerrii-looking in residents' windows. 
las will stop fighting in Rhodesia. "The noise wakes me up every This was one of the pledges that morning and there's always a Smith reportedly had asked Kissin­bunch of horny men walking 
ger to seek from black African around over there looking in all of leaders. A second is that the our windows," Doris Mannes security and interests of the Rho­claimed, another resident. desian whites be safeguarded un­Some students remain unaffec­
der black rule. ted, however. Kathy Tremblay, a 
Alumni summer ho:tel 
.program termed success 
The first Notre Dame Alumni summer hotel was termed a suc­cess by Alumni Director John Cackley, and plans for expansion of services in 1977 are underway. 
The project originated as a means of providing a service to alumni and utilizing vacant campus buildings. Last February plans were announced by the ND Alumni Office which afforded former stu­dents the opportunity to r~turn to . campus fur a visit at a time other tha:; class reunions or a major athletic event. Lewis Hall, a four­story undergraduate women's resi­dence hall. was selected for use. 
Noting that the operation "defin­itely did not show a deficit," the alumni director said he expects an increase in the number of hotel occupants next summer because of the positive feedback he has re­ceived. Approximately 5000 alumni and their families took advantage of the opportunity to stay in Lewis Hall between June 14 and July31, 1976, Cackley said. 
A profile of the summer visitors shows good cross-representation of alumni from all classes. The eco­nomical rates offered attracted many recent alumni and their children, Cackley added. 
An alumnus and spouse shared a double room for $10 per night. Two children were placed in another double room for an additional $3, resulting in a fee of $13 per night for a family of four. Many families offour, however, took advantage of the special rate of $60 for seven nights, the alumni director stated. Golf, tennis and swimming were available at the regular guest fees. 
In the original plans, summer visitors were given the option of participating in two summer work­shops to be directed by ND faculty members. These workshops would have discussed some of the major issues confronting the United States and the world community, Cackley explained. Neither semi­nar was held because of the poor response from alumni guests, he said. 
Cackley stated that there is a proposal under consideration by the Alumni Association which would expand the summer pro­gram. Continuing education programs may be directed by the CCE staff, and improvements n daytime activities for children are expected. 
The Alumni Association first third floor resident, explained, the expected completion date for "We're up at seven o'clock any­the facility is the week of March 24. way, so it doesn't bother us. It's When questioned about how much just a good thing they don't work 

longer ~hey pl~nned to use heavy on Saturdays. Ifthey did, I'd really and notsy equipment, he replied,be mad.''. 
"We could easily be using equip­James Zakrocki, project manager ment through the entire month of for The Hickey Co. Building Con­October. I plan on using it all that 
structors, told The Observer that month." 
Services Council to recruit volunteers this week 
The Community Services Com­fourth year as a campus-wide or­missioners Council, a volun­ganization. This year for the first teer organization which operates time, however, all Community through the residence halls, will be Services Commissioners will also recruiting volunteers Monday be a part of the hall in each dorm, through Thursday, Sept. 20-23, according to Conley. according to Chris Conley, chair­man. 
The officers of the CSCC are Chris Conley, chairman; Carol
"The purpose of the Council is to establish permanent projects for 
Miskell, secretary/treasurer; Katie each dorm through hall commis­Lavins, publicity director; and Bro. sioners, and to act as a liaison 
Joe McTaggert C.S.C., advisor. between Volunteer Services and 
"Volunteer service is not a one-way thing,'' Conlev empha­the hall resident by providing sized. "The volunteer not onlyinformation on volunteer pro­grams," f_:onley stated. 
gets an opportunity to serve, he can ·meet new people. learn new skills
This semester, residence halls will be involved in Community 
and possible career interests and Service projects in six parishes 
can get away from school and out in the community for a while."
(Parish-Partnership), two nursing 
homes, St. Joe's Hospital, Logan Center and Renew, Inc., all in the South Bend area. 
"There is a wide variety of projects, and students from any hall ban participate in any one of them," Conley explained. 
Community Services is in its 
FAST 
TYPEWRITER 
REPAIR 

2915 Mishawaka AveJ 


discussed this type ot program two yep.rs ago, but it was only last spring that the project gained support from the Alumni Office staff, CAckley said. 
Because of first-year budget concerns, the program's advertis.­ing consisted only of pamphlets mailed to the 55,000 Notre Dame alumni. There will be more promo­tional work done next year, Cackley stated, with an increase in bro­chures and literature mailed direct­ly to the now 57.000 alumni. 
All registration procedures are conducted through the ND Alumni Office to free regional clubs from this responsibility. 

dependable, quality­compact electric with 42 keys, signal light, repeat key actions and POWERED carriage return. Truly portable at 
ONLY 14.5 LBS. 
WIDE CARRIAGE TAKES STANDARD PAPER LONG WAY. 
Optional typing characters like 
~§1!4Y2<> 


$166 

Not Merely a Graduate 
Level Engineering Program 
The Navy Nuclear fbwer ~gram is a total systems approach to problem solving. Admiral H. G. Rickover implemented this program to train intelligent men to address complex problems through knowledge and understanding rather than rote compliance to set procedures. This is the most selective and highest paying Engineering specialty in the Navy. In addition to full pay and benefits, it includes a $1,500 bonus for completion of Nuclear Power School and a $20~-ooo four year continuation bonus .. 
The Navy needs some very special Notre Dame Graduates who aren't afraid to find out how good they are. 
NAVY ON CAMPUS 
OCTOBER 6-8 
MAKE APPOINTMENTS WITH PLACEMENT OFFICE 

the observer Wt-dnesday, September 22, 1976 
~----~=-==~~~~-------­





CANCO needs volunteers to fight child abuse 
play with the children in a semi­by Barbara Brltensteln structured atmosphere, while par­Senior Staff Reporter ents either leave or submit to 
The South Bend Child Abuse and counseling. Neglect Coordinating Organization ''The Crisis Center has only been (CANCO) is in "great need" of open since April,l976," Sopke workers and is asking for student noted, "and we have had 77 child­volunteers from Notre Dame and ren in so far." "We operate St. Mary's, according to Joyce largely on a volunteer basis," Sopko, CANCO chairman. Sopko continued, "Especially at 
Volunteers for CANCO, the cen­the Crisis Center. This program is tral organizatiori" for child abuse in especially suited for college stu­St. Joseph County, will work in one dents because volunteers only work of four programs to help abused in two-hour shifts and only during and neglected children and abusive the daytime hours."., parents. CANCO also includes a "Diag­
To prepare volunteers for these nostic and Consultation Team programs, CANCO is sponsoring made up of area doctors, lawyers two training sessions within the and social workers, who offer next week. The first session, which confidential advice on every case will discuss what child abuse is and encountered by the organization. what factors lead to it, will be held Other programs include a speak­at 7 p.m. at the Family and er's bureau, an educational pro­Children's Center at 411 Lincoln­gram which offers lectures on child way West in Mishawaka. The abuse to various organizations, a second session, on Wednesday, "Parent Surrogate" program in Sept.29, will examine the different which volunteers work for an stages and aspects of child devel­extended period, usually one year, opment. on a one-to-one basis with abusive 
The largest of the four programs families and a program to distrib­sponsored by CANCO is a "crisis ute a "Welcome Baby" brochure to center," an emergency service to new mothers in the hospital. families in which children are about This year, CANCO is sponsoring to be abused. four internships for college credit 
"We try to encourage parents to to sociology students from seven come in with out placing any social area colleges, including St. Mary's stigma on them," Sopke explained. and Notre Dame. Two St. Mary's "We have had a few walk-ins, but students are now involved in 
most have been referred to us from supportive case work on families as the police or welfare departments. part of this program. We would like to have them come The Notre Dame sociology and on their own, but most people don't anthropology department did re­
even know we exist yet." ceive information on the intern­
In the Crisis Center program, ships, but not in time to implement parents are urged to bring their them this semester. However, children to the Family and Child­department Chairman Leo Despres ren's Center' before possibly abus­expressed interest in the program. ing them. At the center, volunteers CANCO was started in 1973 
'Self defense' lecture presented at Lewis' Hall 
Wolvos stated, "A girl is no
by Ellen O'leary 

safer in a bar, than she is when sheStaff Reporter when a South Bend child was lished because ·'we thought we had coordinator, at 256-0937. beaten to death. Several welfare an obligation to do something "We urge all those who might be agencies were aware of abuse to about these abuses," Sopko ex­interested in volunteering for one 
is 'parked' with her boyfriend." In  
the latter case, the assailant, not  
Joe W olvos, represneting the  necessarily, but possibly being the  
Crime Prevention Unit of the South  boyfriend, or someone who breaks  
Bend Police Department, lectured  into the car. As for self-defense  
on self-defense for women in the  itself, W olvos does not advise  
recreation room of Lewis Hall last  students to carry weapons.  
night.  ,  "If your assailant gains posses­ 
W olvos commented that he could  sion of this weapon W olvos pointed  
not tell people in one lecture how to  out, "you are providing him with a  
defend themselves, but that he  weapon that he would not have had  
could only make them aware of the  otherwise." Rather, he advises  
fact that they do need to know  women who know the proper  
something about self-defense.  technique, to injure their assailant  
Wolvos gave the usual advice,  enough as to escape further attack.  
"Travel in groups of a minimum of  Though not demonstrating any  
two to three people." Students  types of self-defense, Wolvos ex­ 
lacking their own transportation,  plained that lessons on the basic  
often resort to hitchhiking. Wolvos  techniques of self-defense are  
strongly advises against hitchhiking  available. Coming up soon in  
saying that sticking your thumb out  October, the South Bend Police  
is like asking for trouble. Wolvos  Department will conduct self-de­ 
refers to South Bend as being a  fense classes on Wednesday nights  
dangerous area, but does not  at the Police Station for interested  
designate one area as being more  women. The course is free and  
dangerous than another.  anyone may sign up.  

•plained.
the child before his death, accord­of the programs to come to the 
Any student interested in volun­
training sessions and find out what g about it. CANCO was estab-teering for CANCO can contact the organization is all about,"ing to Sopko, but none did anythin Mr<o. J,.~kit> Goldrick, pro_gram Sooko ~~in 

UNITED STATES READING LAB OFFERS SPEED READING COURSE AT NOTRE DAME 
United States Reading Lab will offer a 4 If you are a student who would like to week course in speed reading to a limited make A's instead of B's or C's or a you number of qualified people at Notre are a business P;!son who wants to stay Dame. a~reast of today s everchanging acceler­
This recently developed. method of atmg world then this course is an 
absolute necessity. 
instruction is the most innovative and ef­fective program available in the United .These free special one-hour lectures States. w1ll be held at the foJiowing times and places.
Not only does this famous course reduce your time in the classroom to just one class per week for 4 short weeks but it 
NOTRE DAME MEETINGS 
also includes an advanced speed reading course on cassette tape so that you can Tuesday: Sept. 21, at 6:30 p.m. and 
again at 8 :30 p.m.

continue to improve for the rest of your life. In just 4 weeks the average student Wednesday: Sept. 22, at 6:30 p.m. and 
again at 8:30p.m..
should be reading 4-5 times faster. In a Thursday: Sept. 23, at 6:30 p.m. and
few months some students are reading again at 8 :30 p.m.
20-30 times faster attaining speeds that approach 6000 words per minute. In rare 
Friday: Sept. 24, at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. 
instances speeds of up to 13,000 wpm have been documented. Sunday: Sept. 26-, at 2:30p.m. and againat 5:30p.m. 
Our average graduate .should read 7-10 times faster upon completion of the 
Monday: Sept. 27, at 6 :30 p.m. and again at8:30 p.m. 
course with marked improvement in comprehen~ion and concentration. 
For those who would like additional 

TWO FINALMEETINGS
information, a series of free, one hour, orientation lectures have been schedules. 
Tuesday: Sept. 28, at 6:30 p.m. andAt these free lectures the course will be again at 8:30p.m. 
explained in complete detail, including classroom procedures, instruction meth­ods, class schedule and a special 1 time only introductory tuition that is less than one-half the cost of similar courses. You 

THESE MEETINGS WILL BE HELD AT
must attend any of the free meetings for 

NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR CONTIN­
information about Notre Dame classes. 

UING EDUCATION 
These orientations are open to the public, above age 14 (persons under 18 
If you are a businessman, student,should be accompanied by a parent if housewife or executive this couse, whichpossible). 
took 5 years of intensive research to develop, is a must. You can read 7 -10 times faster, comprehend more, concen­If you have always wanted to be a trate better, and remember longer.
speed reader but found the cost prohibi­Students are offered and additionaltive or the course too time consuming . -:-. 
discount. This course can be taught to now you can! Just by attending 1 evening tindustry or civic groups at "Groupper we~k for 4 short weeks you can read 7 rates" upon request. Be sure to attendto 10 times faster, concentrate better and whichever free orientation that fits best in comprehend more. 
your schedule. 

128 north michigan street. downtown south bend. phone 234-1431. 
~ FIRST 2 DRINKS 112 PRICE~ 
4 DAYS OF THE BLUES wednesday & thursday, september 22nd, 23rd 
biG joltN WRENCitER ~h~ NEW ltousE ROCkERS bANd 
friday & saturday. september 24th, 25th 
BIG WALTER HORTON 
~LA~ MUS.lC, YOOP ANP 1)~\N~. 

--~--­

T -shirts which will go on sale at St. Mary's and Notre Dame dining halls today. 
German dinner, dance highlight Oktoberfest 
after dinner, . those 21 anj-· overby Michelle Leahy will be able to enjoy the "BeerStaff Reporter 
Garden" which will be located in Plans for St. Mary's annual 
the Regina North basement from 9 
p.m. to midnight. For those underOktoberfest are now in the final 21, the band "Sahara" will providestages, according to JoAnn Bag­music in the Regina North lounge.
giano, chairperson of the SMC Special Events Commission. The Each hall will be decorated in a festival will be held Sept. 30 German style and will be judged on through Oct. 2. Thursday. The winner will be 
What is Oktoberfest exactly? announced sometime during the "It's a German tradition--a type dance. of beer festival," said Baggiano. 
A "Happy Hour" at the library"We're really trying to go all out 
will begin festivities Friday from 4 this year, but of course we have to 
to 7 p.m .. with chugging contests, adapt it to Indiana." 
beer relays and polka contests. To kick off the three day festival, Also scheduled is a party at the 
helium balloons will be given out . Heide Iburg Friday night from 9 during lunch at St. Mary's and p.m. to 1 a.m. The SMC-ND Social Notre Dame dining halls on Thurs­Commissions will provide a quickie day, Sept. 30. shuttle for students needing trans­
Thursday night will be high­portation. lighted by a German dinner, in­Saturday, Oktoberfest will closecluding pork chops, German potato with "Horse Feathers," starringsalad, German rye bread, brat­the Marx Brothers. This movie is wurst and other native German 
tentatively scheduled for two dishes. German music will also be showings at 7 and 9 p.m. and played for atmosphere: 
admission is free. 
ND· Photo Club to meet 
The Notre Dame Photo Club will Plans for the semester include a hold its first meeting in Room 204 competition date set for Dec. 8. of O'Shaughnessy Hall at 7 p.m. For more information contact Tim Guest speaker will be Mr. Ivansics, Krause at 1182, Dave Lewis at sports photographer for the South 1786, Sue Mart at 6 715, or Pat Bend Tribune, who will discuss the lennon at 8549. art of action photography and will 
by Katie Kerwin Senior Staff Reporter 

Republican senatorial nominee, Richard Lugar, called! for a cam­paign that "speaks to the highest ideals of Indiana citizens" at a fund-raising dinner in Indianapolis last week. 
In his speech at the "Dick Lugar Victory Dinner," the major fund­raiser for his Senate bid, Lugar said, "Certainly, given the raw material we have to work with, the temptation presents itself to devote much of the campaign to exposing and condemning on1! breach of integrity after another. Junkets, 'triple-dipping' of expenses, illegal contributions and refusal of airline se!l.rches might provide more exci­ting speech topics than full eplploy­ment, care for the elderly, quality education, or protection of the environment." 
'-'But, I sense the voters I am meeting each day seek and expect better things from us," he contin­ued. ''They seek a positive alternative to the unethical politics of the past.· We offer one. They seek constructive proposals for rejuvenating the private economic sector, and creating lasting jobs. We are suggesting such proposals. They seek persons with the vision to look forward to new energy sources, unquestionable national defense preparedness, and a more humane and effective federal gov­ernment, which re-emphasizes per­. sonal liberty. We are demonstra­
ting both that vision and the 
dedicated energy needed to reach 
higher ground.'' 
Lugar's appeal for ethical politics and constructive, forward-looking action comes at the end of a month of political wrangling between the two senatorial condidates. ,Accusa­tions have been flying thick and fast from all sides. 
Columnist Jack Anderson repor­
ted  that  Sen.  Vance  Hartke's  
daughter,  Sandra, ,has  held  jobs  
requiring  little  iq  the  way  of  a  

regular work schedule with firms that benefitted from his votes. 
The American Conservative Uni­on recently labeled Hartke, "Mr. Special Interest.'' 
James C. Roberts, executive director of the Conservative Union, called on Hartke to return at least 20 per cent of the more than $300,000 he has raised thus far for his re-election campaign, according to a story in the Fort Wayne News Sentinel. He said Hartke solicited and accepted money from the railroad industry while serving as chairman of the subcommittee for surface transportation dealing in rail matters. He also received money from utility interests while introducing legislation favoring those interests. 
. The Bloomington Herald Tele­phone charged Hartke with using veiled threats to silence some of his media critics. An editorial repor­ted that at the Indiana Democratic 
-------~---------------------------------------­
Wednesday, September 22, 1976 the observer 5 
--~~~~~~~~---~ 






Lugar calls for high ideals 


present some of his work. 
THE LOUDSPEAKER
Committe~s will b.e formed at the meeting and dues will be collected. 
AUDIO EQUIPMENT 
The darkroom will also be open for 
CASSETTES 8-TRACKS
interested students. 
Top Pop Rock LP's
The Observer is published Noonday through A"iday and Y.Ee!d y during the SU!T111el' session, except during the exam; and vaeation periods. The Observer is published by the students 



$5.97 
of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's COllege. SubsCTiptions may be 
purchased tor $18 ($10 per semester) 
Ph 277-3121 
fro-n The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dan-e, Indiana 46556. Sea:Jnd Class 

Across from Radio Shack near Fat WalJys 
postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556_ 

(*The Observerl 
Night Editor -John Calcutt Night Editor -Frank Kebe layout -Rosemary Mills, Joe 
on sale beginning Wednesday, 
Wheaton Copy Reader -Pat Cole 
Day Editor -Joe Gill ·September 22, 1976 at the Sports -Fred Herbst Typists -Martha Fanning, Mel 

Student Union Ticket Office 
Celeste, Joan Martel, Anne Giere 1 Ad layout -Pat Russell J _1-4 pm Daily $5.00
\Night Controller -Don Roos EdHoriai Association convention, Hartke said there are newspapers in the state, which own television and radio stations, who are concer­ned that he might seek to force divestiture of the broadcast proper­ties. 
Hartke said that he has been trying "to get the message across" that as the man in line to be chairman of the Senate Communi­cations Subcommittee (if re-elec­ted), he could seek such legislation as a response to what he considers "irresponsible" journalism. 
Asked if his statement could be considered a "veiled threat," Hart­ke replied, "It is not veiled." 
Indianapolis Mayor Richard Hudnut sent Jartke a letter reques­ting that he cease making "unfoun­ded and misleading" inuendoes that "would lead people to think that I am very critical of the former Mayor of Indianapolis, Richard G. Lugar." 
· The dispute between Lugar and Hartke camps continues over Indi­anapolis employment and unem­ployment figures. Hartke forces are still demanding that Lugar withdraw a current television com­mercial. 
The controversy arose over Lu­gar statistics claiming that he brought Indianapolis 8,000 new jobs annually during his eight-year term as mayor. Hartke supporters provided U.S. Department of labor statistics to disprove these figures. They also cited the fact that unemployment figures more than doubled during this time, in an effort to discredit Lugar's claim to have boosted' employment. 
"To avoid tne possibility of further dispute, the language will be amended to say 'thousands of new jobs per year' ,--an irrefutable claim," said Mitch Daniels of the 
Lugar campaign staff. 
Lugar said the advertisement claim of 8,000 new jobs was based on figures showing an average of 442,400 job-holders in 1967 and an average of 497.000 in 1974. a storv in the South Bend Tribune on Sept. 13 reported. However, the average 1975 employment only rose bv 4,000 jobs, dropping the eight-yea'r average gain to 7,325 rather than 8,000, lugan noted. 

ORLEANS 

Waking and Dreamng 
ORLEANS-WAKING AND DREAMING ON ASYLUM 
GRAND FUNK 
RAILROAD-GOOD 
SINGIN' GOOD 
PLAYIN' ON MCA 

Notre Dame Bookstore 
.Prices good. thru 9/25/76 



Campus GOP forms 
on the local, state and nationalby John DeCoursey levels.
Staff Reporter 

Tiedermann announced that a party for young Republicans, spon­In an organizational meeting sored by local Republican candi­held last night in the Library dates, will be held Saturday nightAuditorium, Chad Tiedermann and at 7:30 in the M.R. Falcons Club,Kevin Richardson, chairpersons of 3212 Keller. The next meeting isthe Notre Dame College Republi­scheduled for Wednesday, Sept­cans, informed the 80 members ember 29 at 6:45 p.m. It will bepresent, that .the club planned to held either in the Library Auditor­canvass the entire campus prior to ium or the LaFortune Studentthe elections this November. 
Center. A rt:presentative from theDuring the meeting Tiedermann St. Joseph County Republican Or~and Richardson asked the members ganization is expected to attend.
to help out Republican candidates 
Carter attempts to please anti-abortion supporters 
[continued from page 2] 
to minimize the practice by preven­abortion is evidence of a failure to ting unwanted pregnancies. College Republicans of the prevent unwanted pregnancies. I "I don't remember the word
candidates. 

efforts which are planned to disagree with you on one thing--! 'restrict' having been used," Car-­recruit votes for Republican (Photo by janet Carney) don't think we ought to have a ter said on April 28. "I just can't constitutional amendment." recall." 
Carter said that under the Sup­The controversy flared again reme Court ruling. he will try to after the Democrats adopted a curb abortion and will seek laws to platform opposing attempts to a­

HPC discusses laundry problem 
promote family planning and to mend the Constitution to undo [continued from page 21 added that the fine did not apply to the new procedure for the selection provide access to contraceptives. Supreme Court decisions permit­nels.'' Although Community Serv­residents washing articles for men. of the Rockne Trophy, a monthly But CArter says he does not ting abortions. think the Constitution should be
ices is part of the campus-wide Student Body Vice-President award given to the most active hall. Carter said he disagreed with Volunteer Services, he explained Mike Casey, on hand for the A panel of three former hall used to "deal with such matters as that plank on grounds it insinuated abortion. He also says a system of that foes of abortion had no right to
that it was "primarily an organiza­meeting. noted that student gov­presidents will choose the winner state option would amount to seek an amendment.
tional service within the hall," not ernment was investigating the each month, based on activities through Volunteer Services. laundry situation. sheets submitted by the hall presi­abortion on demand for wealthy While Carter said the campaign 
"I think it offers you an oppor­Breen-Philips President Nancy dents. While the most active hall women, who could travel to a state controversy over abortion should tunity for something to do outside Siegler also proposed that a facility will generally earn the trophy, the with a liberal abortion law. He said not be viewed as a Roman Catholic the hall," noted McTaggert. He similar to the Farley motel be new procedure will allow halls that would result from the course church issue, he put it in precisely added that the United Way drive, established for male visitors. showing consistency to be recog­Ford favors. that context when he met, at his for which a separate chairman in Other women's halls confirmed the nized later in the year. The pickets and demonstrations request, with Roman Catholic bish­each hall has been named, should need, and Holy Cross was dis­Russell in addition endorsed the are a new problem for the cam­ops. The bishops' spokesman said have been handled by Community cussed as a possible site, since it concept of round table meetings, paigning Carter, but the abortion they were disappointed by his 
was the only hall with space established last year to bring issue is a familiar one. It has been continuing opposition to constitu­
Services. available. section leaders from the halls tional change.
with him since the early days of the Laundry problem discussed together to discuss common prob­primary campaign. Shortly thereafte1", Carter said he Infirmary improvements sought lems. A Roman Catholic newspaper in had not taken a position of actively Dubuque. Iowa, quoted Carter last opposing "every possible constitu­
The HPC also turned to the The HPC also heard John 
The HPC also appointed an In­Rooney present a plan for recycling winter as saying he favored a law to tional amendment" on abortion.
campus laundry problem, as Farley President Tracy Kee announced firmary Advisory Board, to attempt paper collected by the halls. The restrict abortions. Carter later That seemed a hint that he might 
maintained that his position always be open to change. but he said that
that a $5 fine would be imposed on to make the infirmary more re-project would donate all proceeds any male who uses the washers in . sponsive to student needs. to either the Hunger Coalition or had been the same: Opposition to he is not. ''I'm not going to yield her hall. She noted that the Gassman noted that a similar Logan Center, but it must still meet 
abortion and support for legislation on my position," he said Sept. 10. problem had been particularly group 1ast year "tried to· get the with fire regulations before imple­acute since the beginning of the 
whole clinic situation changed," mentation. year, while the campus laundry has and had limited success. been tardy in its deliveries. Her Members of the board include 
Jewish services 

OKTOBERFEST '76
:oncern was echoed by presidents Anne Thompson, Lewis; Tracy 
Jf other women's halls, but none as Kee, Farley; John O'Lear, Holy Students wishing to celebrateCross; Jeanne Sculati, Badin; Rich
Jf yet have established a fine. Jewish holidays may do so at either -is comin_ ............ 
"We realize the guys have Riley, Alumni; and Molly McGuire 
the Sinai Temple or the Temple 'r::;;;;;;;::;:::=;:::=:;;;;;;;==========~=========~ 

aundry problems,'' Kee remarked, of Lyons. Bethel in South Bend. 
'but these are our machines." She Russell presented to the council Rosh Hashana will be celebrated at the Sinai Temple on Saturday, Sept. 25 at 9 a.m. and on Sunday,
Quickie Bus begins shuttle 
Sept 26 at 9 a.m. Services will also take place at the Temple Bethel on Friday, Sept. 24 at 8 p.m. and -on

to Michigan this weekend 
Saturday, Sept 25 at 10 a.m. by Jim Bowler our more satisfied customers will Yom Kippur services can be Staff Reporter be walking." celebrated at the Temple Bethel on Specific questions concerning 
Sunday, Oct. 3 at 8 p.m. and on The Notre Dame Quickie Bus will the Quickie Bus can be directed to Monday, Oct. 4 at 11 a.m. For Jegin its shuttle this weekend and the Social Commission at 6244 or times of services at the Sinai Nill 'continue throughout the sem­the Ombudsmen at 7638. Temple, students may call for ~ster on all Friday nights when further information. Jther major activities are not ;cheduled.· The shuttle will depart from the nain circle at Notre Dame every 





KEN'S DEN 
HAIR STYLING-­
MEN·& WOMEN 
ACROSS FROM 1 00 CENTER {LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA) PHONE 255-6500 _APPOINTMENTS PREFERRED 
1alf hour from 8:30 p.m. to 12:30 
t.m. with the exception of the 10:00 
J.m. run. The bus will then stop at -Ioly Cross Hall, St. Mary's, before 





get offyourpad... 
1eading toward Michigan. All 
night passes will cost 75 cents, 
while SO cents will be charged for a 
me way ticket. tonight at 7 in Iafortune theatre According to Quickie )irector, Rick Dullanty, "We want 
o provide the students with trans­lOrtation, a means of getting off ampus on Friday nights, especial­y those students under 21." 

The Social Commission, which ;ponsors the bus shuttle, has ·eorganized the program this year 1y employing slaried workers in­;tead of the volunteers used in ilrevious years. Dullanty hopes his will yield a "much more !fficient'' system. 
The bus route, which is one hour

• 
·ound trip, will run north and south m Michigan St. stopping at the loars Head, Kubiak's, Shula's, thd the Forum Theaters. The last JUS will make its loop just after 2 
1.m. Michigan time, when the bars lose. 
The commission has also adopt­:d a new logo this year, which llustrates the quickie loop, or as' )ullanty joked, "the path some of 




Wednesday, September 22, 1976 
the observer
·--=-----=­

Sidewalks installed 
by Pete Newell those students living off-campus. Staf Reporter 
One segment of the walk extends diagonally from the library to In case you've been wondering Juniper Road. Another section 
what the trucks have been doing joins Flanner Hall to Juniper Road. between the library and the towers The final portion runs along Juni­the past few days, a new walkway per Road to the Bulla Shed on Bulla 
is being built there. 
Road. The work is being done by Rieth-Riley, a contractipg firm. 
According to John Moorman, assistant director of maintenance, Moorman, noting that the mall is the walkways are being installed often used for recreational pur­to, "eliminate the students having poses by the students, added that to walk on the grass.'' In the "the walkways were angled as wintertime, the walkways will be much as possible to minimize their ''plowed and kept open'' to provide effect on the student's playing easy access to the main campus for area." 
Law, gradf!ate schools 
.. ""' ~,.;;; 

New walkways have been ·have to walk on the grass Rd.
requirements high ·~ 
installed so students won't from the library to Juniper (Photo by Janet Carney) by Marian Ulicny The necessary GPA also varies 
Staff Reporter with the prestige of the law school. admissions board seeks applicants employment. thing provided.'' The board looks Class rank is also taken into with LSAT scores in the top 600's A Northwestern Law School carefully at undergraduate courses consideration. and a GPA of 3.45. Interviews are spokesman remarked that their and the applicant's depth of study. 
conducted only for the applicant's board no written from
Editor's Note: This is the first of a Waddick stressed that each side admissions maintained A statement the two-part series discussing the re­of the statistical evidence compen­information, with primary empha­cut-offs on the statistical informa­student is heavily weighed, in quirements for applying to Law and sates the other. A student with a sis placed on faculty and personal tion, stating, "We review the total addition to activities and faculty 
Graduate school. The second part high GPA can make up for an LSAT recommendations, activities, and application and read every single references. will discuss the requirements and in the low SOO's. This balancing procedure for applying to medical policy is beneficial to good students 
.~EW LONDOM LAKE CONDOMI-
schools. who are poor testers. 
Classzljize• dAds NIUM 2 bedrooms, den, 2 car
More subjective criteria, such as 
, garal1e. $33,900. Sandy Stores 
272-7750, 272-2696 OK! This is getting serious! 1 sat 
The general requirements for faculty references, a personal inter­
NOTICES

acceptance into graduate and law view and a statement of purpose 
and watched a tailgate party and For Sale: 1 Nortwestern Ticket at 
schools are given varying emphasis are also considered with the aca­
thought it was the game! Where are cost (9) Call Betsy at either 8053 or
Greyhound Bus To Chicago Leaves 
those glasses?!?! $25.00 reward for 8055
demic record. Waddick noted thatat different institutions. 
Circle Every Friday at 4:45. Call To 
clear frame~ glasses lost near the 
Notices

The first step in preparing for such criteria "is of monumental 
bars-call Tom at 289-0114 Factory-sealed Maxell UD-XL 90min postgraduate study in a specific importance in the case of an 
cassette tapes. $4.75. Call 1182 Found: A woman's watch in the 
area is taking the Graduate Record average student or one seeking a 
Greyhound bus to Chicago leaves A.C.C. parking lot. Call Mary at For Sale: Two Transaudio speakers
Circle every Friday at 4 :45. Call
Examination (GRE) for which a scholarship." He added that a 
6179 to identify. Brand new 27 inch high walnut
Tom at 8338 by midnight Thursday 
cabinets. $175 for both~ Call Pal
studentshould apply several weeks strong record of extracurricular 
for seat reservations and further 
Wanted 3059
in advance. The GRE will be given activities added to a student's 
info. 
at the Engineering Aud. on the application is a "decided boost." 
Ride to Michigan St. Oct 1 or 2. Will 1972 Honda 450 Excellent condition
Will teach flute in your spare time. 
share expenses, Carol 7834 Cash or trade for car. Call Charlie
following dates: Oct. 16, Dec. 11, Law schools affiliated with a 
Call Beth-8112 for more info. 
277-0692 after 6 p.m.
Jan. 8, Feb. 26, Apr. 23, and June certain college or university usually 
Need ride along Interstate 80 West 
Morrissey Loan Fund $20-150, 1 day
11. recieves the largest number of 
to MOline September 24. Call 5194 Large eye-catching compliment and
wait 1 per cent interest due in 30 
grabbing couch-hide-a-bed. Abso­
According to Dr. John Fitzger­applications from its graduates. 
days. LaFortune Basement, M-F 
Needed: 2 or 4 GA Oregon Tix. Call lutely a must. PErtect for all
ald, assistant vice-president for Such applicants might be favorably 
11:15-12:15. 
Steve 218 7 
BMOC's, studs, and night-owls.
Ratlne~~~-&~teii--For 
Steve 287-6058
advanced studies, students' GRE reviewed because of the immediacy 
Comes with gorgeous chocolate­
Business. L.P.'s in stock and on 
colored cover. Going fast. Call 3413
scores are a primary source used by of their references, but most law 
order. List $6.98. Our price $4.65. 
Need 2 Oregon Tix. Will Pay $$$. 
for detais and appointment or come
8-tracks and cassettes also avail­
graduate schools in assessing pro­schools never fill more than 25 
Call Steve at 287-6923 to 004 Morrissey.
able. List $7.98. Our price $5.75.
spective candidates. The most percent of the upcoming class with 
Ask for prices and information on Part-time worl<,; 
telephone ticket Must sell Northwestern Ticket and
recent scores of current Notre graduates of the affiliated univer­
car decks and speakers, blank tapes, 
sales. Evenings and Saturdays. bus ticket to game. Call 1263
c. B.'s and other accessories. Call
Dame graduate students in all sity. This general policy exists 
Pleasant working conditions. Salary
1492 or Stop By 809 Flanner Hall. 
and bonuses. Call 237-1976 Mr. 
Personals

departments show an average of because most schools desire na­
Richardson
579 in verbal and 584 in quantita­tional representation, explained 
Free kittens 3 mos. old. Ph. 
272-2520 3 'BAMA' tickets needed-anyting MOE reasonable-8775 
tive (mathematical) skills. Waddick. 
HOPE YOU READ THIS BEFORE
· The undergraduate grade point A four-member faculty committee 
Accurate, Fast Typing. Mrs. Dono­
SUNDAY. HAPPY BIRTHDAY IN 
..
average (GPA) is another factor reviews applications at the Kresge 
ho 232-0746. 
Need 6 Oregon Tickets not neces­
ADVANCE. SAY HELLO TO 
sarily together.
graduate schools consider. Notre Law School at Notre Dame. 
EVERYONE AND TO HOGAN AND
The senior class announces that 
Call Robbie 8706 SPOOKY.
Dame graduate students showed According to a committee spokes­
auditions are now being held tor 
LUV,

an average GPA of 3.18, but man, it uses no automatic formula 
(bikini-clad) naked klunkeress, for 
Need 2 or 4 GA Oregon tickets. Call 
MLF

the final home games. apply 1650
Fitzgerald stressed that the GPA 1ut "tries to select people who will 
Mark 1473 
norm varies according to the depar­1ake the greatest contribution over 
ND-SMC Council tor the Retarded 
Aggressive Gentleman to help Gen­Senior Advisory Council meeting.
tment. Higher averages are sought . ne rest of their lives to society and 
Dance tonight 7:30-10:00. Logan 
eral ManaCJer Part-time. Will trade 4:15 Wed, Sept 22. Rm 124Center Cafeteria. 
salary for· room and board. Call Hayes-Healy
in math and philosophy. the legal profession." 
272-7522 tor interview.
Along with statistical informa­Other information besides the 
Hi Sandy, Dick Jeff et.al. !! How's
For Rent

tion, personal recommendations LSAT score and GPA is considered. 
Ride needed to and from Cincinnati, rome?? 
weekend of 24th. 1334
are considered. Notre Dame The committee requests letters of 
From everybody here 

provides three forms for this pur­reference and samples of the 
For Rent, furnished six bedroom 
Need 4 Oregon tickets. Must be Fight for your rights. ND-SMC
home, Two Baths, Fireplace, 2 
together. Call Dave 8528
pose. Other schools request letters applicant's writing. Evidence of 
lnPIRG meeting, Wed., 7:00p.m.,
blocks from Notre Dame in safe
from professors well acquainted extracurricular activities and public 
LaFortune basement.
neighborhood. $225 per month plus 
Wanted: used typewriter manual or
with the applicant. service is also reviewed. 
utilities. Also four bedroom fur­
dexterious. Leo 1650 SEMPRE
nished, fo.ur blocks from Notre
Personal interviews are not usu­No interviews are conducted 
Tl

Dame $175 a month plus utilities. 
Need ride to Dayton or Columbus· AMO
ally required, although a few because of a faculty policy against 
277-3604 evenings. 
any weekend. Call Jan 4037 Rainbows Close
departments may encourage them. them. This was effected because of 
Now longer carrying puddles around
Garage for Rent. Call after 9, 
Typing wanted: picked up and
Occasionally, these interviews are the advantage given to applicants 
287-5718 delivered. Reasonable. Diane-683-DETROIT CLUB is sponsoring
conducted on the road by alumni. living nearby and the difficulty of 
7759 weekend trip to M.S.U. game.
An applicant is frequently re­assessing a person in an interview 
5 Private Bedroom House for Rent at 
Package includes round trip train
1002 Campeau St. with Living Room 
Need ride to Columbus, Ohio this and G.A. ticket. Detroit area mem­
quired to submit a statement, procedure. 
Dining Room, Shower and Kitchen. 
Friday. Call Peggy at 284-4260 bers $19.00 guests $22.00. Need
outlining his goals for extended The St. Louis University Law 
All furnished. $250.00 monthly. 
preliminary count for train reserva­
Utilities paid by owner. Less if you
study in a specific field, and why School measures its applicants 
tion by Thursday, 9-23. please call 
pay utilities. Lease, Deposit re­
For Sale
these goals would be met at the according to the class entering the 
now... Sue 233-3605
quired. Call 234-1821 after 5:30 
school to which he is applying. yt;ar before. Their general trend 
p.m. anytime Sat and Sun. or 
REDUCED WEEKEND RATES AT232-1821.
an 

2 fix tor Northwestern game. 40 yard I RAY'S MASSAGE PARLOR!. Half­line seats. Call Terry · 521.
Fitzgerald noted that a student shows LSAT scores of 600 and 
average GPA of 3.4. Interviews are 
price with 4-oz bottle of Jergen's,
might wish to include extracurric­
ular activitiesto support his essay. granted but not recommended, and 
Lost and Found 4-sale 2 Northwestern tix at cost ~~~i~~~~~~i~~~~~~­
1387 1
Students planning to apply to law emphasis is placed on faculty 
K.D. and Dick-Happy Birthday! 
1 Queer Quint and Banana Found :1 girls pearl ring. Washing­Directors chairs personalized all
school after graduation should take recommendations, activities and 
the Law School Admission test work experience. 
ton Hall stage. Identify it and if's colors and finishes. $22.50 Great , Wimp­
(LSAT) instead of the GRE. The The class now entering Mar­
yours. Call Ed. 234-7967 Midwest "T" Co. 289-5941 . I don't like your looks and 1 don't schedule for this exam is as quette's Law S.::hool exhibited 
, like your appoach.Lost: Gold hoop earring; Sat. night Rugby Jersey, Rugby Jersey, Rugby
follows: Oct. 9, at Stepan Center; LSAT scores of600 and a 3.5 GPA. 
at parties or bars. Great sentimen­Jersey exactly like book store our I
---------------Tree 
tal value. Please call 4255 price $11.00 Great Midwest "T" ' W anna be an ace reporter? W anna
and Dec. 4, Feb. 5 and Apr. 16 at However, an admissions advisor 
Co. 289-5941 meet people and poohbahs? Then Lost: Kodak instamalic camera. No drop those books and come to the
the Engineering Aud. stated, "The non-numerical infor­
To get into a top law school such mation is as important as the 
questions, Cash Reward. Brian '62 Mercedes, 4-dr, fine condition, Observer workshop tonight at 7:008462 . radials, Stereo S-track. SlTOO. 287-in the LaFortune (just off hte main
I

as Yale, a student should score in numerical." 
7693 lobby) Eat drink and write a
the high 600's on the LSAT, stated A statement is required from the 
Lost: Clear and Black Lighter with lead
Dr. Robert Waddick, assistant applicant's Dean of Students to 
Fish Hook at Jungle Jim's birthday Mexican Huaraches-all leather with 
party. If found call Harsh at 8212. tire tread bottoms. Sizes 3 to 11
dean of the College of Arts and show evidence of a clean academic 
ASK FOR BOLD BEFORE THE 
Great sentimental value. (will fit guys and gals). For more 
·COPY NOT AFTER YOU DUMMY
Letters. However, a score from record. Two letters of reference 
information call Tony 8212 or Come 
Lost: 1 high school ring.. says Benet bY 1028 Grace to see. -$13. REPORTER WORKSHOP tonight at
600-650 is considered satisfactory from faculty members a~:e also 
Academy. Red stone, yellow gold ·! 7 in the LaFortune Theatre. setting, 1974 ring. Initials P.A.R. 1 12-string Giannini Guitar-asking $90
by most good law schools. required. The advisor stressed that 
If a student is not satisfied with the admissions board actively soli­
St. Mary's class ring; traditional will talk-s·wap for 6 string (steel) of Bilbo and Frodo are being nomina­
.. 
his initial LSAT score; he may cits unquantifiable information a-! 
·diamond chip, 1978 ring, initials comparaable value. Call Bill 8795 l ted toninht alonn with the "Lucky
P.A. R. B.A. gold antiqued setting. · 15". Bags be at the Bag Inn
retake it, although both scores will bout the candidate. Excellence in 
They were lost somewhere between For Sale 3 pc. Bedroom set. Includes ! upstairs at 8:00 pm "Bag'im Dan-o
be sent to the law school. If the extra-curricular activities is impor­
Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 4 drawer Chest, 6 drawer dresser 
with mirror. Foot board and Head I~~~~o~e_:_:~-------­board Call 272-2520 after 3 p.m. 
retake shows an improvement of SO tant, especially in decisions on 
points or more, the school will middle-range applicants. 
BAG BOOKS 
usually accept the higher score. The Boston College Law School 
Wednesday, September 22, 1976
the observer 

Fullback Jerome Heavens: 
a young man on the run 
by Patrick Cole 

With only 13 games under his belt at Notre Dame, Jerome Heav­ens has already put himself in the school's all-time individual record book. 
Last season, Heavens rushed for 148 yards against Georgia Tech in 18 carries setting a record for most yards gained in a game by a freshman. On four occasions, he gained over.100 yards placing him second behind the legendary George Gipp who gained more than I 00 yards in five games during one season. He shares this honor with former Notre Dame great, Wayne Bullock (1974) and Marchy Schwartz (1930). 
By the end of the season, many Notre Dame football fans were surprised to find Heavens as the leading rusher on the team with 
.. 
756 yards in 129 carries again setting another all-time record for a freshman. And this record puts him ninth on the all-time single season rushing list. And don't forget--he was only a freshman when all this happened last season, and he has three more seasons to go! Going into the third game of this season against the Northwestern Wildcats this Saturday, Heavens continues to lead the team in rushing with 166 yards in 46 carries 
(3.6 yards per carry average). Naturally, he has become a regular starter at the fullback slot. 
"I'm taking it in stride," the explosive runner from East St. Louis, III. said about his position. "I feel comfortable about starting, but anything can happen. There's people behind me like Willard Browner and Steve Orsini. But it is a happy feeling to be starting." 
Last season, Heavens alternated at fullback with Jim Browner who now starts at strong safety. Heavens admitted he wanted to alternate at times. "But it got to the point I wanted to play," he stated. "Any athlete wants to play and make the first team." Yet Heavens felt that by splitting time at the position, the coaches could get both backs the experience and help the team by using the skills that Browner and he had to offer. 
Being able to play in his first game was a most memorable experience, Heavens remembered. 
Yet he felt more relaxed about this season. "The first game against Boston College opened up on national television--1 really didn't know what to expect. However, with the Pittsburgh game, I felt more comfortable about playing," Heavens indicated. 
Despite his outstanding fresh­man season, he was occasionally haunted with fumbles. "The first time I touched the ball in my college career, I fumbled," he stated. "I don't think the problem was nervousness as much as it was a lack of concentration on my part. So then I started thinking, 'I have to hold on to the ball.' But there are still other things you have to be concerned about when you run with the ball." So as he gained more knowledge about playing, he be­came better at hanging onto the ball, he said. 
Heavens, an economics major, attributes his abilities to his high school coach and his relatives. He told that during his junior year in high school, he concentrated more 
Oregon Student football ti•X 
on running the ball instead of blocking. 
"So in the latter part of my senior year, my coach stressed blocking," he said. "Yet I had a lot of relatives who were in sports, who made me want to be involved in sports. From them, I picked up some tips, and I picked up a lot of things naturally.'' 
And Heavens' name became a natural choice for athletic recogni­tion at Assumption High School in .East St. Louis. He won a total of eight letters in football, basketball, and baseball while captaining the football and basketball teams in both his junior and senior years. In football, he received all-district and all state honors in his junior year. He was a consensus All-America choice as a senior. 
"In high school, you were sup­erior over a lot of people," Hea­vens pointed out. "Here at Notre Dame, people are bigger, faster, stronger, and sometimes smarter so you have to figure out ways to beat them." Therefore, Heavens has set some 
goals for the coming season.  He  
hopes  the  team  can  win  the  
national  chmapionship,  and  he  

doesn't think it is out of reach despite the early loss to Pittsburgh. 
He would also like to catch more passes, but his personal goal is probably the same of any running back in the country. 
"I would really like to gain over l ,000 yards," Heavens revealed. "But if I'm called on to catch more passes then it is a sacrifice I'll have to make. But my main goal is to improve my overall game." 
Many fans would question whe­ther Heavens needs to improve his game since he is one of the speedier fullbacks in Notre Dame history. Alre.ady.he is known for the long run m hts young career. Against Georgia Tech in 1975, 

next Week 
Heavens sprinted up the middle of 
to be distributed the Yellowjacket defense on a dive 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's students desiring a ticket to the Oregon football game for their personal use may obtain them at the #I and #2 Ticket Windows on the second floor of the ACC beginning next week. 
A ticket to the Oregon game is not included in a student's season football ticket, since it will be played on the first day of midsem­ester break, Oct. 16. 
Seniors may pick up their ticket on Monday, Sept. 27; juniors, graduate and law students on Tuesday, Sept. 28; sophomores on Wednesday, Sept. 29; and fresh­men on Thursday. Sept. 30. Married students desiring tickets for themselves and spouses will be able to procure tickets with their class. 
The ticket windows will be open from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., including the noon hour, each of the four days. 
When reporting to the ticket window. students must present their ID card along with the 4-game season ticket that they were issued earlier in September. At that time students will fill out an application to present with their ID. One student may present four ID cards and submit four applications for adjacent seating. 
There will no charge for Notre Dame undergraduates. However, St. Mary's students will be charged $6 for their ticket while Notre Dame graduate and law students will be charged $3 as will the spouse of a Notre Dame students. 
No Oregon student tickets will be issued after Oct. 1. 
Ticket Manager Mike Busick has also announced that season hockey tickets for students will be avail­able "sometime in the next couple of weeks.'' The exact date and time of purchase will be announced later. 
play for a 73-yard touchdown, the longest run of the season by a Notre Dame back. 
"Actually each play is set to break all the way,' he said. "The 
Dantley signs 
BUFFALO AP -Adrian Dantley, who led the U.S. Olympic basket­ball team to a gold medal in Montreal this summer, signed a multiyear contract with the Buffalo Braves Tuesday. 
Dantley, a 6-foot-5 forward who needs nine credit hours to be graduated from Notre Dame, was the Braves' first-round pick in the National Basketball Association draft last spring. 
Neither he nor the Braves would disclose terms of the contract. However, it was believed the pact was fot five years and could pay him in excess of $100,000 a year. 

Irish remain unranked 
A.P. top twenty 
Top ~·pnty teams in Thl' Associated Pr!'ss collt>ge football poll. with first-plac£' votl's m pal"l'nlht:>ses, season rel'(lrds and total pomts. Pomts based on 2G-18-16-1,4-121().9-ij..7-f>.H3-2-l: 
I. Michigan (47) 2-6-0 1.156 2 Ohio St. (3) 2-r~o 998 3. Pitt.~burgh (7) 2-Ml 947 .f Oklahoma (3) 2-6-0 i!'lO 5. UCLA 2-0..0 761 6. Nebraska J-t)-1 511 7. Georgia · 2-1).0 510 
8. Maryiand 2-1'-0 m 
9. Texas A&M 2-0..0 373 10. KanS<ts 3-().j) 2!01 II Penn St. 1-1-0 :!l!5 12. Arkansas 2-0-0 2lj2 
13. Alabama 1-1-0 llili 14. lllinois 2-~0 122 15. Louisiana St. 1-().1 94 
18. North Carolina 3-().0 fi.'i
• 17. Mississippi 2-Hl 61 
18. Boston CollpgP 1-11-0 fill 19. Southern Cal 1-1-0 49 20. Texas Tech 1-0-6 32 
UPI poJI 
NEW YORK (UPI) -Tht> United Pre~ Inter­national Board of CoachPs top 211 college football teams with fl.r~'t·place votes and team !'I'Cords in parenthl'ses and total tt>am points: 
I. Michi~n (31) (2-0) 40.'i ~. Ohio S'<!te (5) (2-0) 33S 3. Pittsburgh ( 4 l (2-0l 304 4. UCL~'(I) (2-6) 295 5. Oklal10ma (2-0) 262 
6. Ne~a (l) (1-0..1)151 7. Georgia (2-0) 135 8. Maryland (2-ll) 9H 9. Texas A&M (2-0) 86 
IJl.. Penn State (I-I) 58 II. Arkansas (2-0) 47 . 12. Kansas (3-0) 35 13. Alabama (1-1) 28 14. IU!noi.s (2-0) 21 
15. (tie) Southern Cal (1-1) 9 
(tie) LSU (141) 9 17. ~on Colltge (1-0) 7 Ill. North Carolina (3-0) 6 
19. (tle) Texas Tech (U) 3 (tie) Florida (1-1) 3 

coaches stress to get the most--if Overall, Heavens is satisfied possible--to break each play for a about playing. Thinking back on long gain." last season, he praised the fresh­
Heavens began to talk about man rule allowing them to compete Notre Dame's line. "In the first on the varsity level, which is in its game, we (the backs) had to get fourth year. used to them," he explained. "If you're good enough as a "Now everything is beginning to freshman, why should you be held fall into place. I think our line is back?" he asked. "Ifyou are ready very experienced, and our backs to play, then you should play." have faith in them. People like And with the brilliant season that Ernie Hughes and Mike Carney, Jerome Heavens had last season as for example, can break things a freshman, who could argue with 
open." him? 
St. Mary's netters trounce Notre Dame; lose to Purdue 
by Patti Doyle 
At a five team invitational last 
Saturday. St. Mary's tennis team 
edged Notre Dame to take first 
place. SMC racked up a total of 28 
team points out of a possible 35. 
Placing second in team points was 
Notre Dame with a total of 16. Ball 
State trailed behind ND finishing 
up with 13 points. Valpo earned 11 
points and DePauw concluded their 
performance with a total of 9 
points. 
Barb Timm, of SMC, playing number one singles, defeated her opponent from DePauw in finals 6-0, 6-1. Louise Purcell, also of SMC, overwhelmed her opponent from ND Jane Lammers, 6-1, 6-1. In a tight match with a girl from DePauw, Noreen Bracken of SMC won 6-3, 7-5. Number four singles player Ann Daniels of SMC fini­shed up a 6-2, 6-1 winner over Kathy Mullin from ND. In doubles competition SMC's Griffin and Brogger defeated their opponents from Ball State 6-4, 6-0. SMC dropped their number two and three doubles teams of Midock, McKee and Griffin, Sonovan to a fourth and third place finish, respectively. 
In their first loss of the season, St. Mary's was defeated by the University 'of Purdue Monday night. 
The Purdue team was the de­fending state champion last year, winning the Indiana State Wo­men's College Tennis Tournament, and SMC expected tough competi­tion. 
Timm fell 6-2, 6-2 to her oppo­nent and Purcell's competitor scored a victory of 6-1. 6-2 in number two singles. Bracken lost her match 6-1. 6-1 and Daniels 
Phi/s beat Cards 
PHILADELPHIA AP-Dick Allen's double with two out in the fourth inning triggered a three-run outburst and the Philadelphia Phil­lies went on to beat the St. Louis Cardinals 5-1 Tuesday night and boost their lead in the National League's Eastern Division to five games. 
competed in a tight match, falling to her opponent 6-4, 6-4. Tami Griffin was downed 6-4, 6-4. Marie McKee came back for SMC and defeated her opponent 6-4, 6-3. 
In doubles competition Timm, Purcell fell 6-4, 6-2. Griffin, Dan­iels were beaten by Purdue in a 6-3, 6-2 match and the team of Starck, Bracken was downed 6-4, 
6-4. 
Saurs captures Notre Dame Open 
by Tom Desmond 
Sophomore Tim Saurs captured the 1976 Notre Dame Open golf championship with a six-over par, 290 total for four rounds. Saurs outdistanced fellow sophomore Dave Richert by six shots, Richert firing four consecutive 74's. 
Saurs, recently named the Nor­thern Indiana-Metropolitan Illinois Golf Association's "Golfer of the Year" for his age group (17-19), took the lead at the 36-hole mark with a sub-par 70 and was never headed after that. 
Four players tied at 298 for third place. Varsity golf team captain Rich Knee, senior Bob Belmonte and freshmen Jay Bryan and John Lungran played off Monday even­ing for the third place trophy. 
It was a par four on the third sudden death hole that gave Minnesota Junior Amateur champ­ion John Lungren sole possession of third place. All four players parred the first two holes but it was Lungren's putter on the third green that claimed the playoff. 
The Notre Dame golf team will open its fall season this Friday afternoon at 2:30 with a dual met against Western Michigan. Coach Noel O'Sullivan will field three squads, a total of fifteen players, 
against  the  Broncos  on  Notre  
Dame's  own  Burke  Memorial  
Course.  

The Irish will then travel down­state to the Golf Club of Indiana on Sunday to prepare for the Indiana Intercollegiate Golf Championship to be held Monday and Tuesday of next ~eek. 



