
Brademas, Leahey call for Dem. President 
Republican administration attacked 
uniVerstly of notre dame sf mary's college Vol. X No. 101 Monday, March 8, 1976 
Humphrey elected, Bond VP 
by Jay Tldmarsh Staff Reporter 
On the final day of the 1976 Mock Democratic Convention,· the dele­gates heard Congressman John Brademas (D-Ind.) and Senator Patrick Leahey (D-Ver.) criticize the recent Republican administra­tions and call for the election of a Democratic president to work with the Democratic Congress. 
Bradcmas. delivering the key­note address at Saturday's session, opened his speech with a tribute to the late Prof. Paul Bartholomew. He then attacked the record of the recent Republican administrations. 
·'For too many years," he said, ''the American people has been afflicted by the Republican admin­istrations' mindless intervention abroad. economic recession at home, and tampering with the Constitution." He criticized the "no-no, not now, never-never veto policies of Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford." 
Criticizes Ford Brademas singled out four spec­ific problems in the Ford adminis­

tration. First, despite his promise administration of attempting to left the American family with a cut a limitation to the arms race and for 
to be "candid and forthright," drag the United States into Angola in purchasing power." 
a humanitarian concern toward the 

Ford pardoned Nixon. Secondly, and back into Vietnam. Consequently, Brademas called Third World. 
Brademas said, Ford has bred Finally. describing the economy for a ''Democratic president to Brademas continued noting that 
"confrontation and conflict" by as "the worst since the days of work with a Democratic Congress the country "needs a President 
vetoing much important social leg-Herbert Hoover," Brademas said to fashion policies" for legislation who understands the United States 
islation. the Ford administration has pur-to correct social imbalances, for a is not a gunrunner, but a builder of 
Next sued economic policies "have 
to the for a world where peace reigns among brothers." 
Stating that he respected the selection of Sen. Hubert Humphrey as the convention's nominee, Brademas admitted that Sen. Birch Bayh was the candidate he had been supporting. 
Brademas, formerly a teacher at St. Mary's College, concluded with praise for the involvement of the Mock Convention delegates. He said the solution to the problem of student apathy is "more politics, not less; it is a more open-spirited public life.'' 
He encouraged delegates to "participate in campaigns of can­didates you support." 
"The high calling of we Demo­crats," Brademas said, "is to elect a president who holds the ideals of Congressman john Brademas and Senator Patrick Saturday afternoon. (Photo by Ch:-is Smith) the Declaration of Independence


Leahy addressed the Mock Democratic Conventi.;n 

by Phil Cackley Senior Staff Reporter 

Sen. Hubert Humphrey was the compromise choice of a weary and chaotic Mock Political Convention for the Presidential nomination early Saturday morning. 
Humphrey was nominated on the 

sixth ballot by a slim margin at close to 4:30a.m. Saturday. Julian Bond of Georgia was the Vice-Presiden­tial choice on the second ballot Saturday afternoon. 
A festive atmosphere dominated 

most  of  the  proceedings  Friday  
night  and  Saturday  morning  as  
over  700 delegates  listened  to  

nominating speeches and staged minor demonstrations for favorites among the IS-candidate field. 
But ~en the three hours of nominating speeches were finish­ed, the delegates became serious and got down to the business of choosing a nominee. Caucuses were held all night as state delegations plotted out their moves and determined their votes. 
Three major candidates stood out on the initial ballot: Gov. Jerry Brown of California, Congressman Morris Udall of Arizona, and former Gov. Jimmy Carter of Georgia. 
Other major candidates included Sen. Edward Kennedy Sargent Shriver. and favorite-son candi­dates Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Gov. Milton Shapp and Mayor Richard Daley. Over half of the 28 candidates receiving votes on the first ballot were favorite sons. 
Brown, a favorite-son candidate supported by the entire California delegation, showed unusual strength on the first ballot and continued to be a factor throughout the convnetion. But at no time was he even close to the nomination which required 381 votes of the 760 delegates. 
Udall and Carter at first polled less than 100 votes each but gained strength on succeeding ballots. Moynihan was supported by the New York delegation, Shapp by the Pennsylvania delegation and Daley by the Illinois delegatiOn, but none 
of the three polled large votes on 
any ballots past the third. 
Major national contenders for Democratic nomination, Gov. George Wallace and Sen. Henry Jackson, were never powerful forces in the balloting. Sen. Birch Bayh dropped out early. as did former Sen. Fred Harris and Ellen McCormick the pro-life candidate. Kennedy and Shriver dropped out after the third ballot. 
On the first four ballots Hum­phrey's vote tally never topped 50. As the convention appeared to be heading for a deadlock, however, his tally jumped from five on the fourth ballot to 298 on the fifth ballot. The senator from Minneso­ta was only five votes over the required 381 on the sixth ballot. 
California 'stubborn' 

The California delegation voted in a solid block, 68 votes, for Brown for five ballots before switching to Carter in a belated effort to stop Humphrey. Brown's support out­side of California was scattered and came from a number of states, but significantly there were no major blocks of votes for the California governor. 
The Brown supporters were re­portedly holding out until the tenth ballot, when they hoped their candidate would be the choice of a deadlocked conveilt'.nn. Several vice-presidential on~f/!1· from both the Udall and Carter camps were turned down, as Brown supporters believed he had a clear shot at the presidential nomination. 
An early "Stop Brown" move­ment formed, notably in the New York and Pennsylvania delega­tions. These two states voted for their favorite-son candidates on the first two ballots for the purpose of stopping Brown's momentum. 
As the evening wore on and the California delegation showed no signs of changing their vote, the rest of the delegates became anger­ed. At the Saturday afternoon session the California delegation was booed several times, and there was even a movement to unseat the delegation, although the resolution was never introduced or voted on. 
Udall close on fourth 

Udall picked up votes on the second ballot and rocketed into the lead on the third ballot on large blocks from New York, Pennsylva­nia and Ohio. On the fourth ballot· he was only 50 votes away from the nomination, but support vanished on the fifth ballot, with the tally going from 330 on the fourth to 147 on the fifth. 
Analysts credited Udall's demise to efforts by pro-life forces who were opposed to Udall's pro-abor­tion stance. There were also attempts to swing Brown votes to Carter to block Udall. On the sixth ballot Udall's tally fell to 36 votes. 
Carter polled large tallies on all six ballots, but never seriously (continued on page 7) 
(continued on page 3) 

Hart complains of poor govt. leaders 
by Barbara Breitenstein Staff Reporter 
Warning that ''the people of this country are very confused and very angry," Senator Gary Hart (D-Colo.) challenged the public leadership to come "back to reality" in an address before the Mock Democratic Convention Friday night in Stepan Center. 
"We must.realize that the old answers aren't working any more," Hart explained .."The American dream ts a flawed and tarnished dream because it has been based on some false premises." 
Hart, who served as National Campaign Director for George McGovern in 1972, complained that as a result of these false assumptions the country is facing several problems including a lack of quality in leadership. 
"Our own government has come to be seen as the enemy of its own citizens," Hart said. "It has concentrated more and more power in itself." . _"T~e humble _members of society have a right to complain of the tnjusttces of thetr government," Hart continued, pounding his fist on the podium"and they are. They are complaining by their silence. 
They are turning their backs on political parties and their candidates by the millions.'' The Junior Senator from Colorado spoke before a full audience of 
· delegates _and a few outside visitors who responded with applause and cheenng to his attack of the "bureaucrats in government who preach only fear, hate, and division." 
Hart proposed an economic overhaul, redirection of national assets, eradication of health care costs, guaranteed jobs and massive conservation of the environment as some solutions to these problems. Speaking in a clear and strong voice, Hart stated that these issues "represent the greatest challenge of the age." 
After his fifteen-minute speech, the young Senator commented briefly on several topics in a press conference. He did not favor any presider_ttial candidate but stated that he thought the Democratic nominee\\(.ould be a "new face." 
Calling the United States a "merchant of death" Hart accused the government of being in ''the wrong business" with its policy of arms and grain sale. 
"It is wrong to base our economy on the production and sales of arms,'' he said. ''Ifwe must, we can stabilize Sadat or anybody else in another way. It is a moral question." 
Hart also stated that the abortion and gun-control issues are questions of morals. He explained that he personally would not have an abortion is he were a woman, but that abortion should be a matter of choice and should not be in the Constitution. Hart did 
(continued on page 7) 


Stepan Center is left empty after the close of the '76 Mock Democratic Convention Saturday. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
~----..:2:___--=.:th~e~o:..:b~s:::e=-::-rv...:....::e:....:.r_-_-~_--:-=~=----..,-:-M~o-::;n;-da~y-...:...,~M~a~r-c_h~-8_;,~1~9~76_____ ~~T ---­
f 
~-News Briefs----.,.'On/y _winners' in Moot Court 
~=================Nationru WASHINGTON-Rep. Morris Udall, D-Ariz., said Sunday that "his campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination will be in trouble unless he wins the Wisconsin primary on April 6. His Washington headquarters announced he will not mount an active campaign in the March 23 North Carolina primary because of the Democratic National Committee's action restoring the April 6 Wisconsin primary to full delegate selection status. Udall, appearing on ABC's "Issues and Answers," said there are indications he may pick up the backing of many supporters of Sen. Birch Bayh in New York. 
.,._.On Campus Toda!J'-...... 
9 am -bicentennial festival, "understanding the american revolution" by prof. marshall smelser, n.d. cce. 
11:30 am-bicentennial festival, reception. woodwing quintet, cce. 
12:15 pm -mass, Iafortune ballroom 
2 pm-bicentennial festival, "the declaration of indepen­dence: its promise and problems" by prof. martin diamond, northern illinois univ., cce 
4 pm-bicentennial festival, open house and art gallery exhibit. art gallery and art department 
7 pm-meeting, chess club meeting, rm 227 math building. 
opening reception, photographs by vernon cheek. isi student gallery, n. w. corner of field house. 
7:30pm­

7:30pm-movie and forum, "salt of the earth" and 2 speakers sponsored by nd radical education project, Iafortune theatre. 
7:30pm-movie, t.v. classic movies, Iafortune ballroom, $.75. 
8 pm-bicentennial festival, "a tribute to american music" by south bend symphony orchestra, herbert butler, conductor, morris civic aud. 
8 pm-travelogue series, "turkey-gateway to asia" by frank klicar. o'laughlin aud., sponsored by scottish rite. tickets: $1.50. 
9 pm-film, brett weston, photographer, isis student gallery. 
9:30 pm -auditions, for "the balcony" by jean genet-9:30 pm-lab theatre, washington hall. 
midnight-album hour, "cruisin" by duke and the drivers, wsnd 64 am 
12:15 am-radio, nocturne nightflight, host mark x sullivan; wsnd 88.9 fm 

ND-SMC theater to stage 1914 bicentennial comedy 
The ND-SMC Theatre will stage William Saroyan's My Heart's In the IDghlands, a sentimental com­edy, Tues. March 9 at 8:15p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
The play depicts life in Fresno, California in 1914. Saroyan pre­sents a penniless poet, Ben Alex­ander, portrayed by Jack Camp­bell, and his young son Johnny, played by Reggie Bain, living in poverty. To them comes a white­whiskered actor, an escapee from an old folks' home, Mr. Mac­Gregor, played by Virgil Roth. MacGregor plays his trumpet ex­pressing a basic human yearning for love; music and some ineffable home where the heart can be at rest. 
Included iri the 40-member cast, under the direction of Reginald F. Bain, are Brooke Waling as Esther -the girl next door and Mark Amenta as Mr. Kosak-the friendly grocer. Richard Bergman has de­signed the set. Costumes are by Bridget Ragan and an original music score is by John Fisher. 

This special Bicentennial produc­tion is open to the public free of· charge. Tickets may be reserved by calling 284-4176. 

GREYHOUND BUS TO CHICAGO 
·LEAVES MAIN CIRCLE AT 5:45 (EST) ON FRIDAY, MARCH 12. 
ARRIVES DOWNTOWN CHICAGO AT 7:15 (CST) 
TICKETS WILL BE SOLD AT LAFORTUNE BALLROOM FROM 

3-5 ON THURSDAY MARCH JJ ONLY 
by Qyde Iverson Staff Reporter 

"In tonight's competition there are no losers, only winners." This was the verdict of the distinguished panel of judges which presided this Saturday over the honary final . round of this year's Notre Dame Law School Moot Court competi­tion. 
The verdict was echoed by generous applause from the large crowd of spectators which packed the Library Auditorium. 
The panel of judges was compos­ed of the Honorable Tom C. Clark, retired associate Justice of the Supreme Court; Honorable Thomas Fairchild, chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals; and Honorable Edward F. Henessey, chief judge of the Massachusetts Superior Court. 
Saturday's competition was the end product of year long competi­tion in which the members of Notre Dame's team tested their skill against the skill, imagination, and industry of othr law school teams throughout the nation. 
Over 200 teams competed in thi5 legal free-for-all which climaxed a: the National moot Court Finals he)( in New York City. The Notre DamE Team finished among the top fom teams in the country at thh competition. 
Moot Court competition is de· signed to train its participants ir; the art of appellate advocacy. The arguments are conducted as if the cases were being heard before the United States Supreme Court. Notre Dame's contestants are se­lected on the basis of their perfor­mance in a voluntary appellate 

(*The Observer1 
Night Editor: John Calcutt 
Asst. Night Editor: Val Zur­
blis 
Day Editor: Mary Pat Tarpey 
Copy Reader: Don Reimer 
Sports: Bill Brink 
Typists: Karen Chiames, 
Mary Ann Keefe, Terri Harlan 
and Hank van Dyke 

Night  Controller:  Howard  
Halle  
Ad  layout:  Joe  Graif  and  
(TJW  )  

The Observer is published lll'ooday through Ff"iday a~d weekly during the sumner session, except during the exams a~d vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students Of the Univ. Of Notre Carre and St. Nlary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $18 ·l$10 per semester) fro-n The Observer, Box Q, Notre Carre, Indiana 46556. SeaJncl Class postage paid, Notre Carre, IN 465~. 
advocacy program conducted dur­ing the second year of law school. Saturday's contestants were the best appellate advocates of the Notre Dame Moot Court Team. 
The case which this team presen­ted to the Moot Court invovled an alleged agreement between banks to buy a certain type of automated banking machine activating card which has foreclosed the petitioner from the automatic teller machine market in the state of Pacific. The Petitioner has brought the action under the Anti-Trust Laws. 
Counselors for the Petitioner were Kevin Gallagher of Illinois and June Gottschalk of Ohio. Counselors for the Respondents were Dennis Bronucchi of Michi­gan and Kathleen Comfrey of Massachusetts. 
First to be heard by the judges were the counselors for the Peti­tioner. Largely through. responses to questions from the bench the counselors attempted to argue that their client had been eliminated from an area of competition in the state of Pacific. They further argued that this was the result of a conspiracy perpetrated bv the Re­spondent which was in violation of the Anti-Trust Laws. 
After the Counselors for the petitioner had finished their pre­sentation the judges completed the competition with the questioning of the Counselors for the Respon dent. These counselors argued also pirmarily through responses to questions from the bench. 
They claimed that those actions of the Respondent which could be proven to be conspiratuoils were portected by law. They further argued that all subsequent actions by the Respondent were the result of prudent business decisions and not an' effort to eliminate the Petitioner from competition. 
The judges placed heavy demands upon the knowledge and composure of the participants throughout· the proceedings. But these demands were exceeded in many ways by the praise and respect which were accorded to the counselors by the court in its 
remark<: 
EIJR"PE// 

t;r~nl/2 f!~u~~~9 
~. 60 day atJvance ~ayment requ1red

-"""' 1 
~ ~~ lree 800·325-4867 
\:1 UmTravel Charters 

Acareer in law­WithOUt laW SChOOl. 
What can you do with only a bachelor"s degree? Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a_ challenging, respon­
srble  career.  The Lawyer"s Assistant  is able  to  do  
· work traditionally done by lawyers.  
Three months of  intensive training  can  give you  

the skills--"-lhe courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the seven courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970. The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 1200 graduates in law firms. banks. and corporations in over 75 cities. 
If you are a senior of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer"s Assrstant, we·d like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
?35 South 17111 StreeLPililadelpllla. Pennsylvania 19103 (?15) 732-6600 

, 
Monday, Ma'rch 8, 1976 
the observer 





Sen. Proxmire says nation can meet challenge 
by Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor 
''The theme of this conference is whether the American people are an 'almost chosen people' able to live up to their moral aspirations," Sen. William Proxmire (D-Wise.) said in his keynote address to the University Bicentennial Conference which he delivered at the opening 
ceremony  yesterday  afternoon  in  
the  Athletic  and  Convocation  
Center.  

Speaking to a crowd of several hundred in the basketball arena Proxmire discussed the problems and achievements of America and the challenges it will have to face in the future. He affirmed his belief that despite its failings, the nation does have "the vitality to meet the challenges it must face at home and abroad." 
National problems 
Among the problems of the nation which Proxmire mentioned were high unemployment and infla­tion, an overgrown and wasteful government, and the lingering ill-l'ffccts of Vietnam and Water­gate. 
a •'"-'" '-' '-"J. '-' .3\.. V 11;.11 UUUlVU rt.lll"-'1. 
icans who want to work but cannot find a job," Proxmire said. He pointed out that this burden is distributed unequally, falling most heavily on blacks, young people and women. "It is a cruel fate to be out of work in the land of the work ethic," he commented. 
The effects of unemployment are worsened by the effects of inflation which has been corroding the buying power of the dollar for the last 20 to 25 years, Proxmite stated. ''This is a major change from the past when inflation usually coin­cided with wars and disappeared in peacetime." 
Proxmire, who has gained a reputation in the Senate as a strong opponent of waste in government, particularly in the Pentagon, heav­ily criticized the bigness and waste­fulness of today's government. "The founders feared the potential domination of big government but we have let it arise in the United States." As an instance of waste in the military Proxmire pointed out that there are now more generals and admirals than there were during World War II, despite the fact that there are only one-sixth the number of troops. 
Golden Fleece Award 
As further instances of waste he recounted some of the boondoggles that won, various government departments the not-so-coveted "Golden Fleece Award", a prize that Proxmire's office gives each month to the perpetrators 9f a particularly wasteful operation. 
"We have given it to the National Science Foundation for spending $84,000 on a study of why people fall in love. Even if they were to find out why I .wouldn't want to know--1 like the mystery." The NSF also won the award for a $500,000 study of why monkeys clench their jaws (answer: they are angry). Other winners include the FAA, the Air Force and the Navy (which spent $500,000 refurbishing the new Vice Presidential resi­dence). 
The nation has moral failings and scars as well, Proxmire claimed, citing the after effects of Vietnam and Watergate as well as the current scandals about the CIA, corporate bribery, and the large American arms trade with foreign nations. 
But Proxmire argued that Amer­ica's failings are more than 


Dems criticize Republicans 
(continued from page 1) high." Leahey then addressed the Con­vention, criticizing the Ford admin istration, and explaining his pro­posal to eliminate wasteful spend­ing in the federal government. Leahey criticized the Ford ad­ministration on several points in­cluding the "amazing double stan­dard of justice" that allows for the pardon of Richard Nixon and the administration's effort to involve the United States in Angola. On the economic front, Leahey criticized the administration for 
fostering an attitude in which "we find cheers when unemployment is only 7.6 percent." 
Government bureaucracy 
The federal government, accord­ing to Leahey. has become an unwicldly bureaucracy with many useless and costly programs. 
······~····~··
There/S.a •.
-.

: difference!!! : 
• ~NM 1'011 e : MCAT av., )!),.." : 
e of uper11nct • 
: DAT ..,.'':"" : 
: LSAT :
S!NIIclnsn 
VolurlllfiOUI horftt : GMAT study ;attrrals : 
•. GRE • : 
• Q(AT 
Couf\U that trt • • <Onltan!ly u.,Uitd • 

: CPAT • •
•. VAT Iapt IKolohu lor : 
,..,,., or clan •
• SAT 
Ienon I and lor uu e
•. flEX ol aupplt,.tnt"Y e 
'"alrroals •
!ECFMG .....:,,0, : 
• '"'Ufd ltUOftl •
i NAT'l MED BDS : : NAT'l DENT BDS : 
• Mou claoMI uart B ""'"k' • • pflor to Ex•m • e Sp,ng & Fall compacn • 
• 
Some cou•MI nlfered on e 

• 
Ma1o• CampuMI e




: . . .. . . . ... 
: INDIANAPOLIS : 
• 6620 Grnn~lloro Or~vo • 
• lndoanapolos, lnd 46220 e 
• 13171 842-1267 •
.. . . . . . .. . : 
: CHICAGO CENTER • • ~312) 764-5151 : 






~=tM:!~I 
lDUCATIQHAl ClNTfll : 
e · ~~~~L':::::;.'r~• e 
• llll ____,.. •• IIIII • 
• 111211»-... • 
.,,,.,,.., "'wator uS -:.,,.. 

: MCAT SOON: 
~·.. Register Nou'·•;:i · 
~•......•....••• 
Leahey said that both Democrats and Republicans have been guilty of instituting programs and then of forgetting to destroy them when they become ineffective. This, he said, allows for needless govern­ment expenditures. 
Leahey called for a ''trigger mechanism that automatically destroys a program if it is not working." Leahey stressed that he did not want to ban the creation of new government agencies, but he did want to "insure that programs go out of business when they are no longer needed." 
In order to implement his idea, Leahey urged the addition of a platform plank which guarantees 
100 

Center 
that "no program should exist for more than four years without being reevaluated and repassed by Con­gress." 
After citing numerous examples of wasteful spending in the Ford administration, Leahey said that "voters should not regard Demo­crats as bureaucrats." 
"We are the one party diverse enough to eliminate the problems of bureaucracy, he said. 
Leahey ended with a plea for the election of a Democratic President in November. "Since we have a Democratic Congress," he ex­plained, "the only way to insure my proposal is with a Democratic 
president." 
\HE * 

()~""~OS1__!~~1>1Nt; Co. 
ROSS COUNTRY EQUIPMENT RENTAL $6.00 DAY $8.00 WEEKEND 
Freeon Wednesd 

i' i' i' i' i' i' 
matched by her achievements. "There has been progress -­including moral progress --in recent years," he announced, "though much of the good goes unreported in the media because 
only the bad things are 'news."' 
In material terms America has madca considerable progress ac­cording to Proxmire. "Even after figuring in taxes and inflation the personal income of the average American is double what it was in 1950. Social security, unemploy­ment compensation and welfare proviqe more security for the elderly and unemployed than they could ever expect in the past.:' 
He gave special stress to the progress in education, which he held to be crucial for both material 
~;;:::::=;::::::======1 ilCATERlN G 
KEN'S DEN 
--HAIR STYLING -­MEN &WOMEN ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER 
(LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA) PHONE 255-6500 APPOINTMENTS PREFERRED 
MY HEART'S IN THE

~i\D 
HIGHLANDS 

With HEUO OUT THERE as rurtain raiser.
SMC
(In oonjur1dion with the national Bicen­tennial Festival-"An Alrmst
THEATRE 
Chosen !=Wple") Tuesday, Mard1 9 at 8:15 P.M. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM St. Mary's ADMISSION FREE BY TICKETS 284-4176 
,,-..oiC'K:SSTANDARD---.,
I 1102 SOUTH BEND AVE. I
I I
"NOTRE DAME SPRING SALE" 




~~\~~~V~ LOWLOWPRICES~ 
I WHEEL ALIGNMENT SPECIAL $8.95 I I WHEEL SPIN-BALANCING 2 TIRES $5.50 I 
I OIL & OIL FILTER CHANGEIII FREE WITH LUBRICATION 
PHONE 234-0707 I 
~-·-.-~-·-···---------"' 
NOW OFFERING 10 & 15% DISCOUNTS ON CASES OF WINE/LIQUOR. 
_ 

•• u.J 
t :; 
~"" 
·~ 
·~
tP 
t:3 
·~ 
·~ 
t<D
··~ .·~ ~ 
·~ 
and moral progress. "In 1930 only one in 30 college age Americans were attending college. Now 30 per cent are and the overwhelming majority of youth graduate from high school." 
Moral progress 

Regarding moral progress Prox­mire agreed that criticism is right 
_ and useful in spurring improveme­ment but pointed out that remem­bering the accomplishments of the country can give people the confi­dence they need to carry through the changes that need to be made. 

He commented on the great advance in civil rights legislation and the progress in recognizing the 
W!lltclm S(1royon·.., 

: 
i' 
i' HOURS: 
~ 
~ MON-SAT 
i' 
.i' 9:30 -MIDNIGHT
! I 
FREE DELIVERY 
:SPECIALLY
! JO THE (with $15.00 minimum purchase.) * ! ~g~:5NITY PHONE: 259-0261 $ 
t,.,.,...,,.,.,...............................+••••• 
t ++++++++~<~~•••~·~~•,.••~~·~• 
Budweiser® 



~eagles~~oritt 
100 CENTER COMPLEX 

any regularOFF priced item with this ad. 
• BUSCH® 
A&Eagle 

The extravaganza ends, and the 1976 ND Mock 
Political Convention chooses HHH and JB. 



f
, 
1 ~'' 
r.• 
I 
..1..."'!· 
nm.-·­


It all began weeks ago: debating on the Party Platform. 






, 
r 

-------------~--------­
Monday, March 8, 1976 


Sen. Proxmire relates achievements 
Arnone -sav· 
tip 
rom your fast friend in South Bend. 
Some people who fly West for vacation break never get on a plane until they reach Chicago. They don't realize they can save time. trouble. even money by flying the friendly skies from South Bend, instead of traveling by bus or car to O'Hare. 
For example, one-way Coach airfare from South Bend to Los Angeles may cost $5.00 more than the same ticket from Chicago. But there's no way you can get to O'Hare for less 
-__, 

money. or in a shorter time, or with less hassle. So flying United from South Bend is actually cheaper, quicker. and easier than rolling down the toll road. 
For Friendship Service to 59 cities from South Bend. call your Travel Agent. Or call United at 232-4K11. 
Partners in Travel with Western Inter­national Hotels. 
The friendly skies of your land. 
(continued from page 1) equality of minority groups. "We haven't achieved our goals fully but we have developed the legal mechanisms we need to do so.-" The social status of women has also begun to improve, with more women than ever before receiving an advanced education. However, he stressed that there is still a long way to go, especially in giving women their proper role in the upper reaches of government and business. 
The Senator noted recent prog­ress in protecting the environment with new legislation. "For the first time the amount of air pollution went down last year compared to the previous year." 
Agriculture is one of the great American success stories according to Proxmirc. He noted that Amer­ican farms arc ten times more productive than their Soviet l'Ountcrparts and that only 4.5 percent of the American people feed hundreds of millions around the world. 
He claimed that American for­eign policy was improving since Congress has refused to go along with Presidential demands for in­
volvemcnt in Cambodia and An­gola. Watergate also indicated the strengths of American institutions 
in  resisting  the  excesses  of  the  
President.  
American  technology has given  

the American people a better life than ever but has also made life more dangerous by the possibility of its misuse. He recalled President Kennedy's remark that man now has the power to "make this the best generation of mankind in history or the last." 
But Proxmire affirmed his confi­dence that Americans are a "little kinder, more respectful people than before. And if we can avoid a nuclear holocaust we will be better still in another hundred years.'' 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Univer­sity President, commented after the ceremony that Proxmire gave "a fairly good talk," and that the affair as a whole was "well­conceived and well carried out." He remarked that he would like to see the Conference as a whole produce "more consciousness of the history and heart of the country, of its beginnings and of the road ahead which still must be travelled to achieve the promises of 
the Declaration and Constitution." 
He added that, "we still have a 
long way to go." 
Dr. John Duggin, president of St. Mary's, introduced Proxmire, remarking that he had set a Senate record by being present for over 4,000 consecutive roll-call votes. 
The crowd at the opening· cere­mony was also addressed briefly by Hesburgh. "Patriotism is not just tlagwaving, bands, and marching off to war," he commented. It is also the quieter patriotism of an "almost chosen people who try to make the promises of the Declara­tion of Independence real and true 
in our time." Hesburgh stressed the concept of "practical patriotism": recogniz­ing the equal dignity of men in the way we treat them. "If the Bicen­tennial resulted in an increase in this practical patriotism it would be entirely worthwhile." Dr. Thomas Bergin, co-chairman of the University festival­conference opened the ceremony with a "Call to Celebration." "The Bicentennial offers us a chance to explore American spiritual devel­opment, examing the tension 

between goals and achievements," he said. 
Mrs. Dan D. Stiver, executive chairman of the South Bend Bicen­tennial Committee, also spoke, welcoming Proxmire in the name of South Bend and commenting on the Conference's links with the nation­al Bicentennial themes of "Festi­val, Heritage and Horizons." • 
Besides the speeches the cere­mony featured a series of inter­mixed musical selections and read­ings designed to bring out the themes • of moral aspirations, achievements, and failings. 
"THE STORY OF ADELE H."' 
Monday night special ALL SEATS $1.25 
MISHAWAKA AV!NU~ AT 30TH 


Monday, March 8, 1976
the observer
6 

Writing clinic aids problem writers 

MAR.CH : b·8,.m. 

by Jean Powley correct the situation. Her idea was students. Students are either Staff Reporter to help each student individually referred by their teachers or seek with their specific writing problem. appointments on their own. Once
Editor's note: this article Is the first In a two-part series examining the The stated purpose of the Writ­an appointment has been made, St. Mary's Writing Clinic. ing Clinic is threefold. It strives to 
students may choose to attend "improve the writing of weak 
regularly on a weekly basis, to work St. Mary's Writing Clinic is now on specific assignments, or to only
students (including foreign stud·
in its third semester of operation go occasionally when they have
ents) and to assist students seeking
and business is booming. 
special problems. 

excellence in already competent
Since its creation last spring by a 
writing; to increase faculty interest
recent St. Mary's graduate, Mary Under this system, the clinic
in and knowledge of student:
Orr, the program has more than worked with 56 students during the 
writing problems; and to work in
doubled its clientele and its staff ten weeks of its existence last year 
coordination with the Writing Pro­
has grown to 11 tutors and a faculty and another 126 students during
ficiency program."

advisor. the first semester of this year. 
Orr, now a graduate student at Of special concern are foreign Indiana University, noticed a seri­students who have gained, little Sin~e last fall, the program has ous lack of writing ability on the confidence in handling problems been under the guidance of the 
part of many students before the with English. Office of Academic Affairs, with problem was widely publicized. At present, attendance at the advice from the English depart­She started the clinic to try to clinic is voluntary and open to all ment. Ann Loux, member of the 
Special exhibit acquired by NO 
The Department of Architecture at Notte Dame has acquired a special exhibit, ''Early Chicago Architecture," in connection with the Bicentennial Festival and aca­demic conference. 
Major -items -in the display, sponsored by the Smithsonian In­stitution and assembled by the Historic American Building Survey under the National Park Service, include 26 panels of photographs and drawings of Chicago architec­ture from the 1880's and 1890's. Each is one-meter square and includes works of Frank Lloyd Wright, William LeBaron Jenny, Burnham and Root, Holabird and Roche, Henry Hobson Richardson, Louis Sullivan, Danbark Adler and
Masters candidate to run 
others.

for Wis. congressional seat 
The Chicago displays ranges from "The Prairie Houses" ofA candidate for two graduate increased job opportunities," Wright and the renowned orna­degrees at the University of Notre "Court reform to give the victim, mental work of Sullivan to theDame's May commencement, De­not the criminal, the sporting Auditorium Theater of Adler, at the metrio "Butch" Verich, is making chance," and "less bureaucracy time of its construction the largestpreparations to seek a Congressio­and more fiscal responsibility.'' 
and most complex building uniting nal seat in Wisconsin's 8th District He also pushes the free market as hotel, office building and theater inthis year. The father of six children the key to efficiency, initiative and one structure. Other structures inis spending off-hours and school innovation and sees our national the exhibit include the Hammondbreaks stumping his home territory defense posture as a "strengthen­Library of 1882, the Shillr Building, and hopes to make an official ing of our resolve to preserve our the Kehilaht Anshe Ma'aiv Syna­announcement March 15. heritage and preeminence. God gogue and the Chicago Stock Already the recipient of a bache­willing we will be needed to help Exchange.
forge a new world ahead." 
advanced credits in international ............................................................................................~ relations, Verich will be a candid­ate for a master's degree in business administration and a law degree at Notre Dame. He will 
lor's degree in engineering and 
!,.. PRE-CANA i 
challenge a Democratic incumbent 
~ ~ 
in the September primary, the last obstacle before the Novenber elec­~ A special program for those ~ 
tion. Born and raised in Laona, Wis­~ Notre Dame students and their ~ 
consin, Verich has a background of farmhand, woodsman, business­
~ partners preparing for marriage.~
man, carrier flight piolt and Navy commander. The 43-year-old fami­
lyman has received the VFW Good ISign up in the Campus Ministry ~ Citizenship Medal, Distinguished Flying Cross and two Purple Hearts I Office in 103 Memorial Library ~ 
In speaking appearances in the 
home area of Green Bay and ~ before Spring Break. ~ 
Appleton Verich has campaigned for "revival of the work ethic and 

~..............................................................................................., 
Freshmen and Sophomores. Guaranteed Executive Positions In Aviation Upon Graduation 
Pay approximately $13,000 per year to start. 30 days paid vacation per year starting the first year. Full medical, dental, and unlimited sick leave. Retirement after 20 years service. Free Flight Training valued at over $400,000.00. 
Emglish department, is its faculty coordinator, and as such, is respon­sible for the selection, training and supervision of the program's stud­ent tutors. 
The tutorial staff of the clinic consists of 11 juniors and seniors, recommended as good writers and sympathetic human beings by members of the English depart­ment. These tutors were trained in composition, grammar, and the diagnosis and treatment of writing problems over the summer. Each tutor had the option of working for a salary or for two credits in a cross-listed English-Education course. Six chose to be paid, while the other five are working for the two credits. 
To insure efective communica­tion between tutors, Sue Laughlin, student coordinator, handles all publicity, internal problems and scheduling. Bi-weekly staff meet­ings cover general problems and progress. 
The Writing Clinic has proved to be a relatively inexpensive pro­gram. Its budget, under experi­mental programs, pays six tutors on the regular college pay scale of $1.85 per hour; the faculty coordin­ator at one course equivalency; and maintains a library of workbooks and grammar texts, both practical and theoretical treatments of vari­ous aspects of the writing process. 
I 
I 
I I 
I 
I ~ 

llFFANY&CO.
TALK TO : 
CHICAGO 

715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE • ZIP: 60611 • TEL: (312) 944-7506 
Add one dollar tor.shipping and handling.pJus .sales. tax where applicable ~merican Express • BankAmericard 
Monday, March 8, 1976 
the observer 7 

Humphrey nominated on sixth ballot 

(continued from page 1) challenged Udall until after the fourth ballot. Carter received 222 votes on the fourth ballot and 181 on the fifth, as many votes swung to Humphrey. Support went to Carter on the sixth ballot, in an effort to block Humphrey's move for the nomina­tion. The support came too late as Carter received only 283 votes, not enough to cancel Humphrey's 386 votes. Michigan key for Humphrey 
By the fifth ballot it appeared that Udall would not be able to muster enough votes to make it over 
0 PenSprotest candidates nominated.
Music premiere 
Ed Byrne, Student Body Presi­

Samuel Adler. professor and chairman of the Department of Composition at Eastman School of Music in Rochester, N.Y., will premiere We Believe, his new composition for chorus and instru­ments, at Saint Mary's College on Wed. March 10. The concert is scheduled for 8: IS p.m. in O'Laug­hlin Auditorium. 
The premiere will be part of ''An Almost Chosen People: The Moral Aspirations of Americans," a bi­centennial observance sponsored by Saint Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, and the South Bend Community. 
Adler will conduct the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Choral Ensem­bles in the premiere performance of his work. We Believe is a work in five movements and the perfor­mance will incorporate prose read­ings with the music. 
During his visit to the Saint Mary's campus, Adler also will deliver a lecture on "Twentieth Century Music" at 5 p.m., Tues., March 9, in the Little Theatre, located in Moreau Hall. 
Adler has studied compostion with Walter Piston, Randall Thom­pson, and Paul Hindemith at Harvard; with Aaron Copland at Tanglewood; and independently with Herbert Fromm. He studied musicology with Karl Geiringer, Paul Pisk, and A.T. Davison, and conducting with Serge Koussevit-
NOTICES 

Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 
2~2-0746. 
IBM Selectric II typing. Manuscripts dissertations, experienced 289-5193. 
Earn $250 per thousand stuffing and addressing envelopes at home. Sen $1 plus self-addressed envelope to Heskey Associates, Box 821 FZ, Covington, Ky. 41012. 
Morrissey LDan, last day to take out a loan Is March 12. 
Typing $.35 per page, pick-up and delivery $2. Call Dan 272-5549. 
Typing, former executive secretary, experienced In senior essays, disser­tations, 232-5715. 
WANTED 

Boston: must go, midnight ride, will share SS and driving. Call Christy 6800. 
Need ride to Lake Geneva-Milwau­kee area over break. Call Debbie 4-4844. 
Ride needed for two to Daytona Beach. Call Bill or CHris 6815. 
Need ride to Tidewater, Va. for spring break. wIll help with expenses, call Tom 8938. 
Riders wanted for break, Salt Lake City area. Jfm 272-9026. 
Desperately need ride to Delaware or DC area for break. Tom 1380. 
Ride to Jamestown New York for break. Call Bill 3314. 
Ride needed to North Jersey (Union County) can leave Friday, call Tom 1694. 
the top. At this point, the convention moved to Humphrey as a compromise candidate. 
Michigan was the first delega­tion to throw heavy support behind Humphrey, casting all 33 votes for the 1968 Democratic nominee. After this initial move, votes came flooding in from tired delegates who saw in Humphrey a candidate who could win and end the ballot-ing. 
The immense support that Hum­phrey received after having been a non-existent candidate for the en­tire night was a clear indication to most observers of how tired the delegates were. 
sky. 
While in the U.S. Army in 19SG, Adler organized the Seventh Army Symphony Orchestra in Germany and performed with the group throughout Germany and Austria. The Department of Psychological Warfare considered these tours so effective upon the cultural relations between the countries that Adler was awarded the Medal of Honor. 
The premiere performance of We Believe and the special lecture are both open to the public without charge. 
THIS WEEK 
MONDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 

DANCE TO 
COMMON PEOPLE THE WHITE HOUSE INN 
CLOSED TUESDAYS 2839 N. 5th ST. NILES 683-9842 
Classified Ads 
Need one rider to Ft. Lauderdale. I'm leaving Wed. afternoon, March 
10. Share driving and expenses. Call Pat 1654. 

Ride for 2 needed to Annapolis area, call Anne 7836. 
FOR SALE 
10-speed Huffy Olympia, $85. Call Dan 288-3025. 

Ektelon "Beau Mark" racquetball racquet (metal) with cover. Just restrung with Staytite, rubber grip, perfect condition. $25 or best offer. 277-2306. 
4 NCAA tlx;·call Rick 287-7162. 
FOR RENT 

For rent next year-5 bedroom, 2 bathroom furnished home, 9-month lease, near campus. Call 234-2626. 
Furnished houses, two to seven bedroom, available for September or June. Call 234-9364. 
2 rooms for rent $40, call 233-1329. 
Furnished 4 bedrooms home, NO area, S350 per month plus utilities, (616) 445-3543, 8A.M.-5P.M. 
PERSONALS 

Astory, ye domers. has seldom been 
told Of a fair young lass with locks of gold 
Who's spent golden dreams and 
endless nights Pursuing robins In their flight Her tenderest touch on steins of brew 
Leaves as many a flustered as her eyes of blue 
Many delegates were unsatisfied with Humphrey and when his nomination became certain, voted for favorite son candidates as a means of protest. Pope Paul received two votes from Oregon, although his nomination was illegal because he is not a native-born American citizen. 
Guam started a movement to elect Mandello the Fighting Chicken, a favorite son candidate. Mandello polled only four votes for the presidential nomination but made a strong showing on Saturday for the vice-presidential spot. 
Delegates showed their discon­tent with Humphrey Saturday by abstaining in the vice-presidential vote. There were also a number of 
dent, received two votes from the Georgia delegation because "only a lame duck should run with this turkey (Humphrey)." Also receiv­ing two votes was Sen. Edmund Muskie, who was Humphrey's running mate in 1968. 
Bond easily wins VP 
Julian Bond was almost assured of the vice-presidential nomination on the first ballot Saturday, thanks to heavy campaigning by the Black Caucus. The only other serious contender was Rep. Don Rei le, 

ALL ORINKS 1/2 PRICE DRINK 'N DROWN PITCHER BEER NIGHT 
We toast her birthday and long from 
afar Her hall be Farley, her queendom, the bar. 
Ride needed to Milwaukee, Friday morning at 11 o'clock. My grand­mother expects me for dinner. Call Tom 234-8952. 
Do-W a Do-W a Do-Wa-Ditty, talking 'bout the girls from Detroit City. 
Dear Scarecrow, 1missed you. I hope you had a good trip. WIzard 
Countess, The Rat hopes you are feeling better, and don't let the work RATtle you. 
P.S. Till the summer of '42. 
G.P. May I have the pleasure of this dance? Miss your face around here. F.A. 
Brian, Happy Birthday, baby. Love, Jean and Friends 
Gerald: We'll have fun at the next pizza party. M.E. 
KATE, How was the VILLA?? 
Cheryl, What are the arch. rates for next week? When can we see the originals? 
CHIMES IS RINGING AGAIN!!! 
Giant Iguana wants to meet MInI Rolling Stone. Apply at cave, or call on coco-phone. 
Bob, In just spring, the world In mudlus­cious and puddle wonderful. Splash and thanks. Polly. 

who addressed the convention Thursday night. In addition, Thursday night. Sargent Shriver Humphrey was supported for the and Adlai Stevenson, Ill. also polled presidential nomination by the 
sizable votes. Bon~ polled 406 Black Caucus. 
votes to Reigle's 145 on the second On Saturday afternoon, Hum­
ballot to take the nomination. phrey made a telephone call to the 
convention expressing his appreci­
Bond's nominatiOn was the ation for the nomination.. The call crowning triumph for the Black was supposed to be broadcast over Caucus which also achieved a the public address system to the major victory in the pro-busing delegates, but technical difficulties stand taken in the platform made this impossible. 
Hart sees need of better leadership 
(continued from page 1) favor gun control legislation, and called it an "asinine opinion" to think otherwise. 
Hart, who is now serving on the Senate committee to investigate intelligence activities, began his speech with a few jokes about the committee's attempts to receive testimony from former-president Nixon. "When he finally respond­ed to our questions, his answers were in hinese,'' Hart said. 
The audience also laughed and applauded Hart's description of a bowl of Nixon's memoirs. "The only problem,'' he explained, ''was that eighteen pages were miss­ing." 
Hart received a standing ovation at the conclusion of his speech, in which he called for the "courage of the American people." 
"Above all," Hart concluded, "we must use the occasion of the bicentennial to fight to re-establish the American character. The events of this time are important to the future of the country," he said. "we must draw again from the courage of the American people for leadership." 

Join 
thethird 
bigQBSf
famtly
inthe
world. 
• 
Imagine an order of 22,000 priests and brothers In 73 countries around the World. (That's a pretty big family.) 
But that's what the Salesians of St. John Bosco are all about -a large family of community-minded men dedicated to the service of youth. (And no one gets lost.) 
In the 1800's a chance meeting between a poor priest and a street urchin served to create a movement of such success that it is still growing today. Don Bosco became the priest who brought youth back from the streets-and back to God. 
He reasoned that a program of play, learn and pray would make useful citizens of the world. He crowded out evil with reason, religion and kindness In a (what was then unheard of) atmosphere of family spirit. 
The ideals of St. John Bosco are still with us today. His work goes on in boys c!ubs, technical and academic schools, guidance centers, summer camps and missions. And his very human approach is very evident in the family spirit of the Salesians. This is the way he wanted it. This is the way it is. The Salesian experience isn't learned-it's lived. 
I 
For more Information about Salesian Priests and 
·----------..I 
Brothers, mail this coupon to: 
1 
Father Joaep:, S.D.B. Room A-536 I 1 Salestans~~,!'~!~.":.:.~~;.?......NY. ""' 
I am Interested in the Priesthood D  Brotherhood D  1  
~  ~ 
Nomo  Ago  

II ::"....,... ..... II
Zip 

Collage Attending _________________ 
~"~ I
'-----------­




. 

Monday, March 81 1976
8 the observer 
NO i~ers falter, swept by Wisconsin 
by Ernie Tornero "I saw the puck go in," said Brian Walsh, who was part of the
MADISON, Wis., -The Notre power-play line. "I stopped and a
Dame hockey team's hopes for Wisconsin was
guy from who home-ice in the upcoming WCHA skating with me also stopped. Butplayoffs were buried this weekend the play continued and it took a as an inspired Wisconsin team while for me to get to the official." 
came alive to sweep the Irish. The Despite Irish protest the goal­Badgers took a controversial 5-3 judge and officials did not see thedecision on Saturday night to keep puck go in. The slim 1-0 Notretheir own playoff hopes alive, and Dame lead held up for the rest ofclinched them with a 4-1 drubbing the first period.
of the Irish on Sunday afternoon. 
John Suter, Mike Eaves, andNotre Dame has finished their Dave Herbst scored three Wiscon­with 18-16-2
regular season an sin goals within a four-minute span
mark overall, and 15-15-2 in the of the second period, to give theWCHA, good for fifth place in the inspired Badgers a 3-1 advantage.
league. They travel to Ann Arbor, Ten seconds into the final frame,Michigan on Wednesday and Tim Byers was on the receiving endThursday nights to open the play­of a superb Clark Hamilton pass,offs against the Michigan Wolver­and the senio• wing beat Dibble in ines in a two-game, best-goal the far left corner.
series. The Badgers' wins catapul­Notre Dame almost tied the scoreted them to seventh place, good for at 3-3. when the Collier line was a trip to East Lansing to face involved in another-almost goal,Michigan State. 
with 16 minutes left. 

Notre Dame received some bad Freshman Steve Schneider 
news on Sunday when it was NO's Steve Schneider digs for the puck against Wisconsin Saturday night. The Badgers swept
drove the puck in-between Dibble's 
learned that center Geoff Collier the series 5-3, 4-1. (Photo by Fred jaeger).
pad, and the rubber slithered over 
tore his knee ligaments in the first them. over goalie Mike Dibble's left shoulder. Wisconsin played excel­
the red line before Dibble reached period of Sunday's contest. Collier back and _grabbed it. Amidst the fifteen penalties cal-shoulder. lent defense as it halted several 
is out for the season, and will likely The penalty number shrank in Notre Dame power plays in the
The goal-judge felt the puck did led in the first period came a 2-1 undergo surgery this week. not cross the red line and as Collier Wisconsin lead. ~rad Mullins put the second period (to 8) and so did period. Mike Eaves widened the 
Controversy and a three-goal slammed his stick against the the Badgers on the scoreboard first the goals. Clark Cavolinas notched margin to 4-1 in the fin! period with second period Badger onslaught judges box in avehementdisplay of when he skated down the side of the only goal of the period when he his second goal of the game. Eaves sealed the Irish fate Saturday protest, the play continued at 3-2. the rink and flicked a wrist shot picked up a loo.se puck on a took a drop pass from Tom Ulseth night, as Wisconsin held on to win Fifty seconds later the Badgers past ND goaltender Lenny Moher breakaway and sakted unmolested and streaked a slap shot past the 
5-3. on Moher, who though he came out sprawling Moher. Moher finished
tallied again. But AI Karsnia cut with but 1:29 gone in the game. An Don Jackson opened up the the margin back to one, with his ensuing fracas put two men of each to meet Cavolinas, could not stop with 29 saves for the game while 
scoring, taking a great feed from the puck as it flew past his left Dibble had 38. 
seventh goal of the year at the 6:09 team in the penalty box, and defensement Roger Bourque, and makr. Murray Jackson added an skating three-on-three, the Badg­
ramming the puck past a surprised 
insurance tally with less than four ers made it 2-0 whem Mike Eaves 
Irish to face Cincinnati
Mike Dibble at the 11:53 mark. 
minutes left. picked up a loose puck in front of Less than four minutes earlier, 
Sunday afternoon saw the penal-the rish goal and beat Moher at' Geoff Collier had hit the left post 
ty box rival the bench for the 2:56 of the first period. Donny by Fred Herbst with a low slap shot, scooped up his 
number of players in it as a total of Fair holm tallied the lone score for B · f
y vtrtue o a 103-95 triumph over Memphis State on Saturday night, 
own rebound and landed the puck 33 penalties were whistled for the ND when he notched a shorthanded Cincinnati won the Metro-6 championship and the right to mee.t Notre
1
into the soft, middle portion of the day. The Irish picked up 16 goaI at 15:27. Roger Bourque s11ot 
net. The disc flew out quickly and ff f ff · h w· · Dame in the first round of the NCAA Midwest Regional tournament on
infractions while the Badgers earn-o a ace-o m t e tsconsm zone, 
play continued. · h 1 1'f d h b d Mar. 13 in Lawrence, Kansas.
ed 17, a single game record for and Fatr o m 1 te t e re oun . . . . .
Pat Cummmgs scored 15 of hts game-htgh 23 pomts m the :;econd half a~ the Bearcats buil~ a large le~d ?efor~ having to withstand a last-ditch
I·nterhaII tourneyTtger effort. The wm upped Cmcmnatt's record to 24-5.
Six teams left in 
. . . Big Eight champion Missouri plays Washington, Big Ten runner-up scoring of Jim Stock and Luther game Thu~sday mght. _Thts game Michigan meets Wichita State, and Southwest Conference championby Ray O'Brien 
Bradley. The score was tied at was neve~ m dou?t as Dtllo\l c~m~ Texas Tech takes on Syracuse to round out the Midwest Regional first 57-57 at the end of regulation time. out shootmg behmd the hot an o round pilnterhall Basketball playoffs 
R d H · d F k All Kevin Doherty (14 points in the ay. . .
moved toward an end this week. an Yd . atrhnson ant. rfan G occo first half). Flanner llf just rolled Buoye? by upset wms over North Carohna State and Maryland and the Division I moved into the semi­s~ore m e over tme or race as . If b . outstandmg play of forward Wally Walker, the Cavaliers of Virginia
Ftsher could only manage one over m the second ha emg .
finals which will be played Tuesday b k b B dl All d outscored 41-15 Paul Martin and stunnedNorthCarohnatoqualifyfortheNCAAEastRegionalwheretheynight and Division II is narrowed Has ~t Yfi . rha dey.. h °cco dan Church McPher~on were high point will face DePaul. VMI meets the runner-up of the Southeast Conference down to the final two teams. Both 
arnson tms e wtt 20an 14 (AI b T · 
· t t' K H . men for Dillon with 22 points a ama or ennessee), Hofstra plays Connecttcut, and undefeated 
pom s respec tve1y. en arrts · R kl p · · h h E ·divisions will hold the finals this · t f th · Doherty finished with 16 points. utgers tac es nnceton m t e ot er ast Regtonal first round games.
dd d 13

Wednesday night in the Pit begin­a e pom s or e wmners. th M'd R · h' h · 11
Bradley took game scoring honors Steve Dover collected 11 points in 1n e t west egtona1, w tc ts genera y accepted as the toughestning at 7:00p.m. 
with 24 points while Stock finished the losing cause. bracket, Indiana meets St. John's, Western Michigan takes on VirginiaIn Division I the survivors were 
with 16 points. The clos~st gam_e of the we.ek was Tech, North Carolina faces the Southeast Conference champion (Alabama • Grace II, Off-Campus III, Dillon I Off-Campus III upheld their un-a 37-36 wm for Dtllon lil agamst St. or Tennessee), and Western Kentucky plays Marquette in first roundand Dillon III. The finalists in 
beaten record as they bounced past Ed's I. Both team:' ,defenses were contests. .
Division II are Alumni II and 
Cavanaugh I. This game saw the very _strong. St. ~d s o~ense was The first round of the West Regtonal sees Pepperdine meetingPangborn II. 
lead change hands many times as practically non-extstent m the first Memphis State, Georgetown plays Arizona, Boise State takes on NevadaThe first game of the night was a Cavanaugh held a 31-29 halftime ha~f as they could only man~ge 11 at Las Vegas, and defending NCAA champion UCLA face the winner ofsurprising upset as Grace II lead. Dave Kelly and Tom Monag-pomt~. The two teams s~ttched the Pacific Coast Athletic Association (Pacific or San Diego State). 
knocked off previously unbeaten 
han took control of the boards for roles m the second, half as Dtllon III First round winners will meet in the regional semifinals on Mar. 18. TheFisher I in overtime, by the score of 
61-59. Grace came out very cold but O.C. III in the second half as the ~ent ~ead. St. Ed s 1almost pul~ed regional finals wil be played on Mar. 20, with the national semifinals on game turned around. tt out m. the fourth qua~ter _behmd Mar. 27 and the national finals on Mar. 29.
managed to stay close. Their offense started to click in the Monaghan was the high point ~~e scor~1 otDatve ~~~:~c~tmgl ~ut Of the 31 teams in the NCAA Tournament, excluding Notre Dame, six second quarter as they pulled man in the game with 22 points. 1S hpl~ovhet. 0fi ~-hodo 1.the 15 °0 p a.nets. of them were Irish opponents during the regular season. 
within one at half. Kelly followed right behind with 18 c IC mg lntS e WI 01 Th N t D c· . . 'I 'II b I .
point the 
which was tops in the game. Th'ts . e o re arne -mcmnatt tJ t wt e te evtsed nationally by the 
Grace's momentum carried points while Carl Thompson added N t 1 B d t c (NBC) 4
13 points. Greg Garcia topped the sets up the "battle for Dillon Hall" a to~a roa cas ompany at p.m. along with the Norththrough to the third quarter as Dl.llon I and Dt'llon 11 Carolma -Southeastern Conference champton game at noon and the
between

losers with 14 points. O.C. III faces I d' J h •
Frank Allocco, who failed to score 0
Grace II in their semi-final match. Tuesday night. n tana -St. n s game at 2 p.m. 
in the first quarter, began to find as Dillon I trampled previouslythe range. Fisher I came back unbeaten Flanner III 78-40 in ahave all behind the 
Division n 

ND fencers stay unbeaten 
Alumni II kept their record by Paul Stevenson Stand-outs on the men's team perfect by downing Cavanaugh III were epee specialists Ed Fellows
The Notre Dame fencing team
52-47. It looked as though Alumni's (11-0) and Tom Henzler (4-0).
knocked off five opponents this 
season was heading for an end Henzler has finished the regular
past weekend, upping their sea­
after the first quarter as they were season with a record of 24-3, the
son's record to 26-0 and incresing
down 15-8. As usual they came highest winning percentage for a
their winning streak to 44 straight
back strong and pulled within two 
sbustitute in Notre Dame history.
matches.
at the half. The game remained 
Mike McCahey went 6-0 with the The Irish fencers out-dueled
close after that but Alumni's 
foil, while Captain Mike SazdanoffOberlin College (26-1) and soundly
balanced attacked proved too much 
and freshman Mike Sullivan were
for Cavanaugh in the end. · defeated Case Western Reserve 9-1 and 11-0 respectively with the(23-4), which was 18-1 before
In the other semi-final match 
sabre. Sazdanoff is now 36-8 formeeting the Irish, Friday night in
Pangborn II slipped by Grace V. 
the season and Mike Sullivan set aCleveland.
Pangborn came out about as cold as 
The Irish to new team record, finishing the
traveled Buffalo
any team could by scoring only one 
regular season 53-1.

point in the first quarter. After Saturday to defeat the University of being down 15-11 at the half the Buffalo (24-3) and SUNY at Bing­The Notre Dame fencers, who Pangborn offense began to click as hampton (17-10). Notre Dame also will play host to the Great Lakes 
Grace V looked as though they drubbed a highly-rated William Tournament, are continuing their 
forgot how to shoot. The fourth Patterson of New Jersey team 22-5. drive towards their first undefeated 
quarter was an offensive duel as The women's foil team did not season since 1967 and the national 

Pangborn held out in the end. fare as well, losing to Oberlin (3-6) title. the tournament will start this 
Pangborn II relied on balanced and Case Western Reserve (4-5). Friday in the main arena of the scoring led by Tedd Stepovich's 10
s Co-captain Kathy Valdiserri was ACC at 9 a.m. Students will be 
points. Pangborn II will meet 
the high point for the women's able to see some impressive fenc­Off-Campus Ill defeated Cavanaugh I to move into the Division 1 
Alumni II in the Division II finals 
team with a record of 5-1 against ing, especially against the likes ofsemifinals in the interhall basketball playoffs. (Photo by Tom 
Wednesday night at 7:00 i "l+
Paulius). ""'r opponents. Wayne State. 






