
-----~-~-~~------------------------~---------------------------­

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Monday, November 8, 1976
Vol. XI, No. 43 
ND students attacked, injured by teens dispersed from dance 
by Maureen O'Brien make some The
The trouble began, according to began to noise. 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Keith Tobias, president of the .crowd was composed of 1) those Black Cultural Arts Commission, under 18 who were angry because About 12 ND students were 
around 10:4S when the officers of they couldn't get in and 2) those 
injured Saturday night when 
the Black Cultural Arts Commis­people over 18 who couldn't get 
groups
attacked by of teenagers sion became aware of alcohol on in," Roemer explained.
who had been dispersed from a 
the premises. "The crowd was then dispersedBlack Cultural Arts dance held at 
"When we first felt trouble was from the dance. As the crowcl the LaFortune ballroom. brewing, we called Security," dispersed from LaFortune. -the~ According to John Reid, asst. 
Tobias said. "Security didn't swept across campus and split into director of activities, the Black We called again about ten groups," Roemer added.
come. 
Cultural Arts Commission was minutes later. Unfortunately, by According to a security guard. 
to a
given permission sponsor the time Security got there, things who did not want to be identified, 
dane~ Saturday night, providing 
had gotten a bit out of hand,'' he ''Security received the call from the that the Commission follow 
added. Black Cultural Arts Commissi•·n University guidelines. The guide­
According to James Roemer, and decided the crowd was too Liglines were that no one under 18 was 
dean of students, ·'The trouble to handle. Security then called in to be admitted to the dance, two began around II :00 p.m. when an the St. Joseph County and' 
security officers were to be present 
estimated 400 people were in the Roseland police. Five St. Joseph at the and alcoholic County units came along with the
dance no 
LaFortune ballroom and the people
beverages were allowed at the 
running the dance decided not to Roseland police to campus. Theydance. The Black Cultural Arts admit anyone else. People started (the police) were there and on topCommission followed these guide­
to _gather outside and when the of it. But it was just too much for lines. 
crowd reached about 200, they them to handle." 

Alcohol called 'hidden problem,' awareness goal of conference 
by Mary Mungovan revised by "University SO plus 12" tural expectations about alcohol,'· and Kate Flynn in November. The c;,talog was he continued. Staff Reporters distributed to all seminar parti­His final "commandments" 
cipants in advance. Notre Dame were ''not to allow the program to 
··Alcohol abuse is a hidden graduate Diana Merten "7o servet: be negative" and to "have a little problem on college campuses on the editorial advisory board f(: hope that things will change." because of its very commonness," the catalog. · Hewitt concluded with a quote Keith Hewitt of the National Clear­According to Hewitt. 64 percent ·from Diana Merten: "You can't 
inghouse for Alcohol Information of all homicides, 34 percent of change what has been, but you can stated Friday at the Notre Dame rapes and 41 percent of assaults are change what will be. College Alcohol Awareness Seminar. alcohol-related. students will be leaders, they will Student Government and the "The cost of alcohol abuse runs be parents. We should deal with 
Office of Student Affairs sponsored to $2S million a year for auto college students.'' the alcohol conference Friday from accidents. health costs and cost of Dr. Ruth Engs and Dr. RalphI to S p.m. and Saturday from 9 lost production," he reported. Larsen from Indiana University at 
a.m. to noon in the Moreau Bloomington followed with a two-Auditorium. Approximately 12S administrators. hall government 
and hall staff members attended the two sessions. 
J. P. Russell, Hall Presidents Council (HPC) chairman and chairman of tlie conference, out­lined the major goals of the seminar. 
"Our key word is 'awareness'," he stated. "Our goal is to get the gears in people's heads moving toward a better awareness of the problem of alcohol abuse and hopefully improve the campus attitude toward alcohol." 
The Friday Session 

In his welcoming address. Bro. Just Paczesny emphasized the personal nature of the alcohol problem. repeating the eulogy he had written three years before at Approximately 125 people attended the death of his father who haG conference, which addressed itself to the problem af alcohol abuse suffered from alcoholism. .on college campuses. [Photo by Tony Chifari] _ 
"Hopefully, in dealing with Hewitt proposed guidelines tor hour nr~sentation describing the students, we can help them face an alcohol abuse prevention pro-Alcohol Education Task Force they, life as it is, so they can become gram for Notre Dame. The "Ten helped to create at Bloomington. decent social drinkers," he stated. Commandments" of the program "The philosophy of our program 
Hewitt, the keynote speaker, included shifting the focus away is, if you choose to drink, drink attended the "University SO plus from "alcoholism" and on to responsibly," Engs stated. 12" alcohol conference held at "drinking problems", focusing on The training program for the Notre Dame last November with prevention rather than treatment, students, faculty and admin­representatives from colleges and responsible drinking rather than istration members on the task force universities in all SO states, and has abstaining from drinking, and pro-includes values clarification exer­also visited the campus as a tecting the rights of abstainers. cises, communication skills exer­recruiter for the Peace Corps. ' 'A campus program should be cises and educational films, accord­
''There seems to be more of an student-oriented," he stated,"but ing to Engs. action-oriented and optimistic statP. the program needs the support of "In looking for films about of mind here at Notre Dame," he all elements on campus to work." alcohol, we found that none were noted. "The program should incorp-directed at the college student, so 
Hewitt prepared The Whole orate non-specific strategies to· we decided to make our own," she College Catalog About Drinking: a provide alternatives to drinking, as related. Gwide to Alcohol Abuse Preven· well as specific strategies of edu­
tltb, which was reviewed and cation and control to refocus cui-[continued on page .6] 
The glass of the south doors of Lafortune was cracked late Saturday night by a brick thrown by an unidentified teenager. [Photo by Tony Chifari] 
the Infirmary. At the lntir··,ary
The first reported incident occurred at 11:40 p.m., when Eric washed up in the sink and tht ,-(the Infirmary) took care of the cuh <lllTweedell, a student from Mor­rissey Hall was walking to the circle my face. Then I went home." Twecdcll continued.
to meet a group of friends. "I was walking to the bus stop 
"I think I might ha\'e a broko.1 and there were a bunch of black 
nose. but I'm not sure of that vet." Twecdcll added. · teenagers just hanging arouml outside the bus stop. There were about IS kids. One of the kids Further Incidents 
shouted out to me, 'Hey, what's your problem?' When I didn't The next inl·ident occurred at answer,_ another kid in the group 11:4S p.m. when a group of 
said, 'He's not afraid,"' Tweedell students. Mark Budd. Gregg Bangs. Lisa Becker. Rob Howard.
stated. "The next thing I knew, I was 
Janet Carney, Melissa Erkins and down on the ground being kicked." 
Teresa Maher were standing near Tweedell said. "Then two older the post office. The students were black guys helpt>d to break up the approached by two older black men kicking and I guess they got me who advised the students to get out away from the group of kids,'" 
of the area, according to Melissa Erkins.
Tweedell continued. "Then I was picked up by a car "We decided to walk to the bus full of Not c Dame students and 
stop," Erkins said. "As we were they took me to the main gate and got on campus and brought me to Icontinued on page 61 
Cavanaugh residents find body of murder suspect 
man thought she heard a shotby Jack C. Sllhavy there. Police said she probablyStaff Reporter heard an echo of the shot that killed Adams, which Deputy CoronerMark Harmon and Rick Green­H.R. Stimson said Adams firedwell, roommates in Cavanaugh himself.
Hall, found the body of a man in a Adams had allegedly shot andSouth Bend field while they were killed Mr. and Mrs. Pollitt andout hunting for rabbits Saturday wounded their son George in amorning. The man has been child-custody dispute. Adamspositively identified from dental claimed the elder Pollitt was re­records as Ronald James Adams. 
sponsible for Adams' son beingAdams, 30, has been sought by taken awav from his ex-wife.
police since Sept. 14 for the Pollitt was the director of theshooting deaths of Mr. and Mrs. 
Family and Children's Center inRobert E. Pollitt pf Mishawaka. 
Mishawaka.
Greenwell said he and his room­Adams then allegedly fled in ;Jmate had been hunting in a field car belonging to the Pollitts. Thenear Ireland Road and the U.S. 31 car was spotted abandoned and abypass without luck for about two search for the suspert began. Ithours Saturday morning and were proved fruitles~ and was called of!
about to head home when they three hours later.
came across the body. 
Greenwell said he and his room­"We came across the bones and mate discovered a tennis shoe andthought it was a dead cow," a pair of pants in the snow ncar theGreenwell said. "Mark thought it bones. When police arrived. theymight be human, though. because found a .38-caliber pistollving ncarof the shape of the scull," he the body.
added. 
The body was quite detetioratec;iThe pair then looked inside the from exposure'to the sun and wildmouth and saw fillings in the teeth. 
animals so that only the skull andLeaving their shotgun as a leg were disernable. he said.
marker, they went to a house on Greenwell explained that theyIreland Road where the resident were not really scared at findingphoned the sheriff, who arrived in the body. "Basically. it would haveabout five minutes, Greenwell said. 
been worse if the body was intact.
The homicide department was but since it was just ·bones, therethen called in. 
wasn't really the feeling of fright."
"As soon as police arrived, they he said.
seemed to know it was Adams," Greenwell said the man's clothesGreenwell said. He attributed this were found near the body andto the search for Adams that had 
didn't appear to be torn. He added
taken place in the area about two the it appeared as if Adams hadmonths ago. 
stripped before shooting himself.
The previous search took place "Homicide sounded like the caseafter a stolen car, thought to have was closed," Greenwell added.
been used by Adams in his escape Greenwell said the body was inafter shooting the Pollitts, was tall brush near the edge of wQOdsfound in the area. Several gun­and was not covered with snpw.
shots were reported to police that ''I'm really surprised it wasn'tnight by residents in the area. 
found before this. It was only 50 orMost of the search took place in 
another field a 60 yards from the road," he added.
after wo­



the observer Monday, November 8, 1976
2 


,.---News Briefs-.--­
t=:::::============lntemational Two earthquakes strike 
TEHRAN. Iran -A severe earthquake struck a mountainous region of northeast Iran yesterday morning, killing at least 16 · persons and injuring 32, according to the relief agency Red Lion and Sun. It registered 6.2 on the Richter scale. Another quake, marking 
6.8 on the scale, was recorded early today on the island of Mindanao in the Phillipines, but there were no immediate reports of casualties or damage there. 
r~:-:-:-:-:=-=====================National 

UAW reaches settlement 
DETROIT -~he United Auto Workers and Chrysler Corp. have reached te~tattve agreement on new three-year contracts covering <.J,OOO 'ialancd workers. The agreement avoided the industry's <;ecund national strike. 
Fire erupts at sea 
NEW YORK · An t:ngine-room fire that disabled an American container ~hip carrying "dangerous cargo" 600 miles at sea yesterday appears! to have been extinguished, the Coast Guard Said. The Seattle carried 66 containers listed as "dangerous cargo," the Coast Guard said. Among the 35-foot long containers were eight loaded with corrosives. The rest carried gases or oxidizing material, officer said. It also hauled an unknown number of general containers. 
..,._...._On Campus Today----.... 
3:2.5, 4:30, 5:45p.m. 
3:30p.m. 
3:30p.m. 
8 p.m. 
8 p.m. 

film series, ascent of man film series: "the ladder of creation", engineering auditorium, sponsored by college of science 
colloquium, faculty colloquium: "mead and bellah as theologians" by prof. james w. mcclendon, n.d. rare book room, sponsored by theology department. 
computer course, "fortran", room 115, math and comp. bldg. 
lecture, "the national acrhives: research oppor­tunities and problems" by dr. james o'neil, deputy archivist of u.s. , washington d.c., library lounge, sponsored by history department. 
travelogue series, "portugal" by leo and dorothy eckman, o'laughlin auditorium, sponsored by scottish rite, tickets $1.50. 

Scientists gamble on plan to save California condor 
OJAI, Calif. • Scientists and ecolo­gists have yet another plan to save the California condor, a gamble backers hope will keep the largest land bird in North America from becoming extinct. 
The plan proposes the live capture of some of the rare birds and an attempt to breed them in captivity. Such breeding has never been done before, and two of the nation's biggest wildlife groups are lined up on opposite sides. 
"What we propose is a gamble, but right now it seems the only one to take." said John Borneman, an Audubon Society naturalist and one of the plan's developers. 
The Audubon Society, although taking no official position as yet, 

I generally supports the plan.' But 
! · the Sierra Club, an equally intluen~ tial organization opposes the pro­posal saying it has very little chance of success. 
i:; The condor, a carrion eater withJj an ugly red head, has a nine-foot ! wing spread and can soar for miles on thermal currents as it searches 
~ for food. At one time. condors flew along the entire Pacific Coast from Cana­

• i da to Mexico. But the shy bird has been driven off its natural groundshby man. Its numbers have dwindl­l' ed, until now only about 45 exist, l 0 fewer than a decade ago. The condors live in a remote, federally established sanctuary in the middle of the Los Padres National Forest northwest of Los Angeles. 
Each pair of condors produces ~~ o.nly one off.spripg e.very two years.. !f and for· some reason .. ; still ~ a ·. · 
I 
myst~ry;;o .wilt!life. e~perts ·,-',~~¢ 1 


reproduction rate of the Los Padres condors has dropped drastically in the past few years. 
Borneman and backers of the live capture plan propose to catch three birds, including a breeding pair and a male to mate with a female at the Los Angeles Zoo, the only condor in captivity. . 
The capture-breeding proposal was developed by a special government-sponsored group call­ed the Condor Recovery Team. It 

has  been  forwarded  to  the  U.S.  
Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  for  
approval.  

Meanwhile, the debate goes on between the Sierra Club and Aud­ubon Society over the ef~.:cts of the program on the bird. 
Dorothy Conlon of the Sierra Club's Angeles chapter said the program has ''a very low chance of success." 
"These birds are extremely sen­sitive creatures," she said. 

"We fear the young birds, once raised in captivity, will never be returned successfully to the wild. And what we'll end up with is birds 
. '' 
.

tn a zoo. 
1he Ob>erver IS publ1~hed Monday through Fndav and weekly dunng · the summer se~~1on, except during the exam and vacat1on penods The 
· Observer 15 published by students of the Univers1ty of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. Subscnptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser­ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the 'NsO~Iilted Prrss.' All' rt>productiqn rights are reserved. · ' 
, ' •• I , -. ..-· I,"' '· f J, • i .. \ ; 



Archaeologists discover ruins of unknown trapezodial culture 
LA PAZ, Bolivia -Archaeologists have discovered the ruins of what they believe to be a previously unknown culture that existed 500 years ago and used an architecture based on the trapezoid. 
A trapezoid has four sides but 

only two of them are parallel.  Most  
modern  architecture  uses  right  
angles.  

"This is something completely new in archaeology,'' said Carlos Ponce Sanjincs, the director of the National lnsitute of Archaeology. "We've come across an extremely original form of architecture and we still don't know how it develop­ed." 
The discovery in a mountain jungle came when an expedition found the ruins of a citadel called "Iskanwaya," the name given the culture that is possibly descended from the mysterious Tiahuanaco tribe, Ponce Sanjines said. The Tiahuanaco, who lived on a plain about 45 miles north of La Paz, vanished about 800 years ago. 
The newly discovered ~ulture, according to Ponce Sanjines, cen­tered about 190 miles north of La Paz in a warm region on the eastern slopes of the Andes at about 5,000 feet above sea level. ·There the lskanwaya citadel was built and surrounded by terraced garden areas usea for growing 'grain and for supporting houses. 
The construction of these houses was based upon extremely careful calculations, Ponce Sanjines said in a recent interview. But no one yet can explain the use of the trape­zoid. 
"We're having to study the structures slowly to see whether the culture had based its architec­
Volunteer's office needs people 
The Office of Volunteer Services frequently receives individual re­quests for· volunteers from South Bend residents. Here are some of the volunteer opportunities: 
--tutor a 44-year-old man who is preparing for college in high school algebra. 
--be a live-in companion and tutor for a 19-year-old high school girl who is mentally retarded. 
--immediately need a student to be a live-in sitter at night this week for a middle-aged woman recover­ing from an operation. Also, student will need own transporta­
tion. --tutor a 20-year-old girl who attends Michiana College of Com­merce in accounting 
Another aspect of volunteering is through year-off, summer, and post-graduate programs. A rep­resentative from the Jesuit Volun­teer Corps will speak about their year-off program Tuesday, Nov. 9 at 2 p.m. in Campus Ministry West(Badin Hall). Anyone inter­ested in invited to come. 
Students i~terested in bec;oming a volunteer or fulfilling one of the stated volunteer needs can call Joan Griffin or Pete Wolf at 7308, or drop by the Office of Volunteer Services at 1.5 LaFortune. 

r*The Observe~ 
Night Editor: Bob Brirrlc~ · 
Asst. Night Editor: Rosemary 
Mills 
Layout Staff: Joe Wheaton 
Editorial Layout: Mike Richter 
Features Layout: Chip "Light­
weight" Spina 

Sports Layout: Chip Spina 
Typists: Gwen Coleman, Mary 
Ann Keefe, Rusty Espinosa 
EarlY Morning Typist: Don 
Roos 
Day Editor: Maureen O'Brien 
Copy Reader: Katie Kerwin 
Ad layout: Tom Walrath 

l
'Phot~grapher: T9~Y Chifari ~ ) 
ture on some rare geometric· con­ception, or whether it was based upon the climate or other charact­
eristics  of  the  region,"  IPonce  
Sanjines  said.  "Perhaps  it's  a  
combination of factors."  

He said he recognizes, however, that traditional architecture using right angles would not have been prohibitive, in the jungled region ­in fact, much easier. 
Ponce Sanjines and other arch­aeologists opened a recent photo­graphic exhibition of the Iskanwaya ruins in La Paz. The trapezoid is seen in the photography as clearly dominating the floor, the walls and the doors of the small family units. 
Although the ruins were known to natives of the region, and it is believed to be they who named the citadel lskanway, archaeological diggings did not begin until three years ago. 
The civilization is constdered by experts here to be of the "Mollo" culture, the last known descen­dents of the Tiahuanaco people who are believed to have existed from 130 A.D. to 1170. The Tiahuanaco culture disappeared in the late 12th century, apparently dispersing to other areas. It i!s believed that drought and resulting starvation brought about the Tiah­uanaco demise. 
The "Mollo" culture began to develop slowly and ruled the region from roughly 1200 to 1480. Its disappearance also .js a mystery to archaeologists. 
Iskanwaya is on a mountain slope much as smaller citadels in neigh­boring hills. "Kari" and "Pucan­waya" are two of the more import­ant fortresses listed by archaeolo­gists. 
Huddle to open earlier on Sunday 
A new, earlier Sunday opening time for the Huddle began yester­day. The snack bar will now open at 12 noon on Sunday, two hours earlier than the previous 2 p.m. time. 
According to Dave Teske, assistant manager of the Huddle, approximately 150 people were served between 12 and 2 p.m. yesterday, indicating that the new hours are a success. "I think the new times will be to the advantage of the students," said Teske, "but we will have to wait and see." 
Teske explained that the change of hours came about through the _advice of the food advisory council. 
Teske announced that the Huddle would be anticipating the Alabama game with half-priced strawberry treats from the fountain. This Tuesday, straw­berry sundaes will be the featured item, followed by strawberry shakes on Wednesday and straw­berry cones on Thursday. The specials will run frqm 5 to 8 p.m. on their respective days. 

NOTIICE 
Because of the need to better serve you during the Holiday Seasons, we suggest Airline reservaticms and tickets be confirmed two weeks prior to you departure date. "'Atis will enable us to honor )rour personal check. FIRST BANK TRAVEL ON CAMPUS 
BADIN HALL 283 -7080 




·rnichael.!s 
hair stl.ILinCJ 
-etc. · 

FOR APPT. CALL: 272.;.7222 18381 EDISON RD. AT SO. BEND AVE. 


Have you considered ;a career in INTERNATIONAL !BUSINESS? 
Our two-year program, Master in International Busi­ness Studies, includes intensive language study; in-depth cultural studies; business skills; and a six­month work experience in Latin America or Europe. 
Other business graduate degree programs at the Uni­versity of South Carolina include master's in business 
. administration, economics, accountancy and trans­portation; and Ph.D. in business administration and economics. 
For further Information clip and mail this coupon to: 
Director of Graduate Studies College of Business Administration The University of Sou.th Carolina Columbia, South Carolina 29208 
Name.________________________________________ 
Address.______________________________________ 
I
. ' 

(Paid for by SC Partnership Fund) 
·I


I 

Monday, November 8, 1976 the observer 
Ticket cost 'minimal' 
Co-ex program success 
by Alicia Denefe The lunch co-ex is also ''picking allowed to pick up tickets only on 
Staff Reporter up," said Littlefield. "The number the day they wished to use them. 
of people using co-ex tickets has However, because of the increased 
increased," he noted, and O'Reilly number of tickets now available. 
Judging from student participa­added that all tickets for lunch are and "until tendencies show that tion, the dinner co-exchange pro­usuallv picked up. people are again wasting tickets, gram between North and South Littlefield also announced a we will go back to the old system of dining halls initiated last month change in the ND-SMC co-ex picking the ticket up the day before "seems to be working out," acord­program. The number of tickets if the student desires." stated ing to Co-ex Commisioner Rick allotted to ND students for the Littlefield. Littlefield. SMC co-exchange has been in­"We are experimenting to see 
''As long as people are picking creased from 75 to 100. As a result, which is the best way," he added. up the tickets, it's a good sign," he he said, students wishing to eat at Littlefield wishes ·to thank Mr. added. SMC have the option of picking up Edmund Price and Mr. Charles 
Pat O'Reilly, secretary at the tickets the day before, if they wish, Flaim, food service directors at ND Student Union, commented that "it as well as the same day they plan to and SMC respectively. for their was moving along real well." She use the ticket. Because tickets cooperation in making the extra 
said that normally 20 out of the 25 were being wasted, srudents were tickets available. tickets were picked up, with a particularly heavy demand on 


Mother main suspect
Wednesday and Friday nights. O'Reilly noted, however, that last Thursday night. for the first timt. 


in child-abuse killing 
all ofthe tickets were picked up and 

Notre Dame conducted its annual National Invitational Debate tournament this weekend. Twenty-six college and university teams participated in the contest. [Photo by Tony Chifari 
more students still wanted tickets. 

WORTHINGTON, Ohio -A 20­There is a printing cost for the year-old woman was in jail yester­extra tickets needed for the dinner day charged with murder after the co-ex program, but it is "mini­bodies of two of her young daught­mal" and "is not a factor in the ers were found in trash containers. 
program." said Littlefield. "If Authorities, meanwhile, searched.<!re are some people that want to for a third daughter and . the use the co-ex for dinner, it should woman's boyfriend.

be available .. " he added. 

The bodies of 19-month-old Laur­ie Jo Davies and her sister. Christine, 2 112. were found Fri­
Imaginary disasters test guards, 
day. wrapped in plastir bags and 
\ stuffed in trash containers. 
Yestcrdav's hunt was for Tonya 
Davies. whose fourth birthday is 
Nov. 28. 
Police charged Margo Davies of 


response proves efficiency 
ROBERTSVILLE, Calif. -When area. Casualties are presumed to Barry Raleigh, a geophysicist Worthington with the murder ofthousands of refugees from im­have. exceeded 200,00Q, among with the U.S. Geological Survey in the younger child and held theaginary earthquakes in San Fran­them 81.000 fatalities, including Menlo Park. Calif., said, "You woman without bond awaiting ar­cisco and· Los Angeles converged lives lost by floods." might expect a big earthquake to raignment today. They soughton this mythical town, they brought For the record. some experts say occur in those places about once Mrs. Davies' boyfriend, whom theyalong their urban ills -and all hell such a double calamity is unlikely ·every 200 years. The odds are identified as a 16-year-old whobroke loose. although both San Francisco and probably about one in about 10.000 
lives with his father in Columbus.
Insurrection and crime were Los Angeles have suffered disas­against earthquakes occuring in He was not named.
rampant. A gang of bikers called trous earthquakes in the past and both places at about the same time. 
Police Lt. Richard B. TennantSatan's Saints busted up a bar. can expect earthquakes in the But it's not inconceivable." 

said Lauric Jo's body was found inLooters helped themselves to mer­future. 
a trash can at a city park along thechandise in grocery and appliance Scioto River; Christine's in a wastestores. 
can at another riverside park about

Workshop to develop
A group of militant food protest­a mile to the south.

ors. armed with sticks and stones, Worthington is a suburb north of threatened to seize the state's Columbus.
nearby reserve of food and medical 

skills of assertivene$s 
Chief Deputy Sheriff Williamsupplies. A sniper blasted away at by ~arian Ulicny opinions." she added. Laverv. recently elected Delawarepassersby. A mysterious explosion Staff Reporter Brennan stated that the work­County sheriff: said the girls hadblew several persons out of a shop will focus on teaching skills been bound with strips of cloth and building. 

mostly through practices that are stuffed into the bags. AutopsiesAnd there were muggers, peep­necessary for meeting people and showed Laurie Jo either was stran­ing toms, escaped mental patients, An assertion training workshop establishing friendships. She and gled or suffocated and Christinegas siphoners. drunken drivers and will be held at the Counseling Stan Freedman. a Counseling Cen­apparently smothered, he said.
incompetent baby-sitters around, Center on Thursday, Nov. 11. from ter staff member, will encourage Mrs. Davies, who lives with hertoo. 7 to 9 p.m. 
active participaion through role­parents here, was reported missing The 65-member local police force According to Mary Brennan, playing and group exercises, learn­Wednesday. by her father. policein the town of 35,000 was over­workshop coordinator, the program ing materials will further illustrate said, and officers tracked her down whelmed -until Gov. Edmund G. 
will consist of four consecutive the idea of assertiveness as op­through friends.
Brown Jr. summoned the Californ­
Thursday-night sessions. Its pur­posed to aggression and 
non­She told them two gunmenia National Guard's 8-month-old pose is to teach and develop the assertiveness. 
forced her to the side of the road
"Law Enforcement Assis­
skills of being assertive. "Being Monday morning and abducted her tance Force." "The workshop is not a result of
assertive means expressing feel­children. police said, but theSome 2,000-strong, the guards­specific requests," Brennan
ings and thoughts in a direct and woman could not explain why shemen doggedly, if not quickly. stated. "But I have been informed 
honest way which doesn't violate 
cleaned up this cesspool of deviants of general problems in meeting
the rights of others,"· Brenr.an 
over the weekend -and fed 300 people. getting to know people and
explained.
starving sheep stranded by a dating. These sorts of things will
Many social. commercial, aca­
mythical flood. be included."
demic and professional situationsSuch spectacles rarely are seen 
call for assertive behavior, Brennan The workshop is open to stu­
outside Hollywood movie lots. But 
noted. "However, many people dents, faculty and sta,ff with no
the National Guard staged this one, 
find that their anxiety about pro­charge. Anyone interested in
at its Camp Roberts facility 15 
ducing interpersonal conflicts pre­participating should call 283-1717
miles north of Paso Rpbles. 
vents them from expressing their for further information and for
The $120,000 training exercise ­true feelings, beliefs and registration.

called "operation Safeguard" and 
billed as the biggest in the state's 
history -was designed to show guardsmen are ready and able to . ·help local police in grave emergen­
cy. 
In their dress rehearsal for 

disaster, Guard officials made act­
ors of about 300 guardsmen -they 
played heavies or victims -and 
made heroes of the rest. Forty­
nine detailed scenarios with mem­
orable line such as "Got a Coke?" 
were drawn up for the actors to 
follow. 
Guardsmen playing guardsmen 

were kept in the dark until they 
responded to emergencies -a fact 
that was sometimes painfully ob­
vious. For instance, the biker gang 
went almost unchecked, and the 
sniper had a field day. 
The exercise ceptered on what 

the Guard called "the hypothetical 
consequences of two devastating 
earthquakes four days apart, the 
first in the San Francisco Bay area 
and the second in the Los Angeles did not report the ahdul'tion. 
In further yucsti,llling Thur~day. officers said. her an~'' er~ heL·ame "vague" and "inL·oherent" and she was charged Frida\ after the first body "a~ lou nd. She ha~ refu~ed to talk with offiL'l'r" sim'l'. 
Mrs. Davies returned to Worth­ington about a year ago after separating from her hu'>­band. Bruce. a carnival worker. Tennant said. and had enrolled at Worthington High Sl'hool. 
Detectives said they yucstioned the young boyfriend Firday night and had planned to talk with him again. 
Twelve students injured by teen$ 
!continued from page 61 also unfortunate that-this was a University function and now the University suffers." Mike Gassman. student body president, pointed out that "the University communitv should not be blam~d" for the· adions of a group of outsiders. , Dean Roemer said. "A~ far as I know. the violence aud the problems were all caused by out­siders. This is the end of all dances that outsiders are invited to." Reid pointed out, "The ironic thing is that the students of the Black Cultural Arts Commission were trying to follow the Univ.:rsity guidelines by dispersing the crowd. But when the crowd was dis­persed, the trouble began." 
FAST 
TYPEWRITER 
REPAIR 


1:1:1:@.! 
2915 Mishawa~ ~ve:_l 

*The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported a~ accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials rt>present the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. C:omnwntaries, opinions and letters are the views of their ,wthor~ Column space is available to all members of the <IHnmunJty, and letters are encouraged to promote the free 1'\flrl'~~~on of varying opinions on campus 
Bu~iness Manager Tom Fronczak Advertising Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor Tony Chifari Produc!Jon Manager Martha L. Fanning 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Phones: (219) 283-8661 [ND] (219) 284-5365 [SMC] 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

Thomas O'Neil  Editor-in-Chief  
Dan Sanchez  Managing Editor  
Chris Smith  Asst. Managing Ed.  
Gregg Bangs  Executive Editor  
Val Zurblis  Executive Editor  
Pat Hanifin  Editorial Editor  
Bob Mader  Exec. News Editor  
Maureen Flynn  Campus Editor  
Marti Hogan  St. Mary's Editor  
Don Reimer  Copy Editor  
Tim O'Reiley  Features Editor  
Fred Herbst  Sports Editor  

Monday, November 8, 1976 




Reaction to a Riot 
The basic problem with the Black Cultural Art Center's dance which turned in to a riot was the presence of an uncontrollably large group of town people. 
In retrospect it is clear that the Cultural Arts Center erred in trying to open a party to great numbers of "townies." Student Affairs also erred in giving permission for the event despite the troubles at another party sponsored by the same group several weeks ago. Dean of Students James Boerner did insist on better security ;!recautions for Saturday night's event but these turned out to be completely· inade­quate. Ironically, the riot was touched off by an attempt to close down the party 
when people started to ignore the rules. But in fairness we should at least give both the Black Cultural Arts group and Student Affairs credit for trying to improve the dismal social life at Notre Dame and ND-South Bend relations. Considering the situation they were faced with, campus security generally handled things as best it could --given its severe limitations of size and expertise. Many of the student victims were under­standably angry that security guards were not there to help them out. However, security's limited manpower was con­centrated at LaFortune to break up the mob there. The security office did call for police assistance when they realized they could not handle the situation. These police also concentrated around LaFortune. There simply were not enough men to stop both the mob at LaFortune and the small maraudering groups spreading out through the southern part of campus. Furth.Jr, our security guards are not equipped or trained to deal with a large and violent group. Wltat can be done to prevent such intolerable mob activity in the future? Certainly there should be no more campus social affairs open to any people from town who feel like dropping in. Dean Roemer has already announced this rule. He has 
also announced that the Black Cultural Arts Center will pay for the vandalism in l.aFortune --which is proper since it was their party which got out of control (though of course no Notre Dame students were involved in the vandalism). 
Immediately after an event like this, it is tempting to berate security for incom­petence and unconcern. We should recognize, however, that a campus security force cannot and should not have the training and equipment of a riot police battalion of a S.W .A.T. team. Still, security should at least have contingency plans for dealing with unusual and violent situations 1ikP. thi~, ancl should know how much police assistance to request. Com­munication.. need to be improved: it is not clear tnat the security office and the police even knl.W what was happenin,g on the South Quad until after most of the attacks 
were over. Some students had to be rescued by good Samaritans passing by in cars. Sadly, violent crime is on the increase ·around the nation and Notre Dame cannot escape entirely. Security is going to have to know how to deal with violent crises and how to get needed police support quickly. Perhaps emergency phones could be installed around campus, particularly in high-risk areas such as the road to St. Mary's. 
The most unfortunate aspect of the riot is that it may cause racial ill-feeling on the part of the victims and their friends. We should realize that those who assaulted Notre Dame students were largely juvenile delinquents, some of them drunk, who were influenced by town-university antag­onisms as well as racial antagonisms. No Notre Dame students partic1vated in the violence, and the Black Cultural Arts group made every effort to calm things down and get people out of the troubled areas. Far worse than the physical ·damage from this riot would be the psychological damage to anyone who let this incident influence his attitude toward an entire race. 


~~n.vrra Bus

I~ STOP 


DOONESBURY 
STEAK/ 
I 
tt·B 
/1/&/..L, I SIIOUW 'IOU MeAN, PROBABLY 8t GET­YOU'I?ENOT 7JN6 HOM£. BESIPB, JOINING 7/I£1?E5RE/1/.L.YONL-Y 


by Garry Trudeau 
STEAl<?.' I fA/a/., I FIGUR&O WAS CWL-Y SINCE YOUHADN'T JOKING.' }fJ(J &47l3N IN 71/EI..AST48 I1ADI3 ME HOURS, I'lJ COOl<. YOU 
0/NNeR? A OECENT MEAL 8EHJI<E 
' \ ISPtiT. 
81/TYOU OH.'tutU, 7HAT5 COUWHAVE NIC&CFYa!.. MY TACO/ YOl/SUR£:? 



Seriously Fo~lks,~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 


The Red Badge of Courage 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii__. art bu c hw a I d 
WASHINGTON --I had a very tough time on Election Day. The doorbell rang at seven o'clock in the morning and my neighbor Legendman was at the door. 
"I have to vote today," he said, 

"and I'm scared."  
"Everyone is frightened lection Day." I assured hiwouldn't worry about it."  on m.  E­"I  

"I can't pull the lever for either guy," he said. "I just can't." 
"Sure you can," I said soothing­ly. "I know it sounds impossible, but when you get inside the voting. booth I'm certain you'll find the strength to do it." 
"Would you. go with me?" he begged. "It would be a big favor if I had somebody with me." 
"Well, I hadn't planned to vote until later in the day. But if it means that much to you I will." 
My wife gave Legendman a cup of coffee while I got dressed. 
I found him sitting in the kitchen holding his head in his hands. "I never felt this way before," he confessed. "I used to look forward to Election Day. I had no trouble voting in past ones. Why do I have this terrible feeling in my sto­mach?" 

"It happens to all of us sooner or later," I told him. "I'm sure all over the country people feel the way you do. But Americans have to vote. It's a privilege as well as a duty." 
"But if I pull the lever for Ford we 'II have four more years of the same thing. If I pull the lever for Carter nobody knows what we'll get." 
"Vote your conscience," I told him. 
"If I voted my conscience," he said, "I wouldn't vote. I think I'll go get a swine flQ shot instead." 
I stopped him at the door. "Let's go, Legendman," I said, grabbing his arm. "All you have to fear is fear itself.'.' I bundled him into the car. 

He was still distraught. "I can't pull the lever. I know I'll freeze. The TV commentators say every vote counts. I don't' want my vote to count." 
"This is like war. Legendman," I told him. "You think you can't pull the lever. But when it boils right down to it it's either you or them. Think of John Wayne. He would go right into that voting booth and pull the lever without thinking twice." 
'Tm not John Wayne. l'm just a frightened American voter who never thought he'd have to make a choice between Gerry Ford and Jimmy Carter.'' 
We arrived at the public school and I noticed several drivers pull­ing people out of their cars. They were all screaming "I can't do it! I can't do it!" 
I helped Legendman out. He was shaking and perspiring. "Look, I'll come back later," he said. 
"You have to do it now," I said firmly, • 'The sooner you get it over with the less agony will be in­volved." 
We showed our registra­tion cards to the lady at the table. ''Booth three,'' she said to Legend­man. 
He tried to make a break for it and I tackled him. 
I decided to be tough. • • All right," I said, "I'm tired of mollycoddling you. You're going into booth three and you're not coming out until you pull the lever for the man you want to be the next President of the United States." I pushed him toward the booth.. He opened the curtain and peeked in. 
I watched him sternly. "Inside," I ordered, "and pull the curtain." 
I watched his feet under the curtain. He kept turning ar<mnd. Finally, I heard . a cry like a wounded animal and a click, and Legendman dashed out of the booth. 
"I did it," he said. "I pulled the lever for the candidate of my choice." 
"Good man," I said, pounding him on the back. "It wasn't so bad, was it?" 
He looked at me with tears in his eyes. "I only hope God will forgive 

me." 

Monday, November 8, 1976 the observer 
Midwest Blues: a Learning Experience 
When this part of the country is compared musically with other parts, Midwest America comes up on the short end in most people's minds. Face it, music around South Bend is pretty uncool, right? 
Wrong, not is you were in Stepan Center for the Midwest Blues Festival. In the space of two evenings, we were treated to a quickly disappearing music form. the blues. played by the masters from Chicago. These kings of the urban and country blues played to a semi-enthusiastic (depending on which night) crowd sprawled out on the floor. 
The Friday evening session began about a half hour late, opening with the country blues of Johnny Shines and his acoustic guitar. Singing unaccompanied. Shines · presented an example of the older country blues. He gave a performance that was both excellent and interesting. but few people were there yet to enjoy his rare form of music. 
The crowd increased slightly by the time Magic Slim and the Teardrops took the· stage. This band has been playing the blues for many years in Chicago's South Side clubs, and only recently has begun touring. The guitar style of Magic Slim is a study in· speed with grace and good tonality, a culmination of years of practice and performance. He is not as good as someone like Albert King or B. B. King, but he wasn't too far behind on Friday night. The "blues-lovers dream" con­tinued with the next group. made up of Robert Jr. Lockwood. Sunnyland Slim and George Smith (who covered for Big Walter 
Horton  on  harmonica).  It  is  sad  that  
Horton  couldn't  make  this  MBF  but  
George  Smith  proved  a  "bearable"  

replacement, to say the least. 
However, the man that merited the most notice was Sunnyland Slim on piano. His piano. though not dominating, was more precise than Robert Jr.'s guitar or George Smith's harp. and was immensely enter­taining. Overall. this collaboration of bluesmen gave us some very fine 50's-style urban blues. 
The night's headline act feature a man who has deep ties with the Midwest Blues Festival. Fenton Robinson displays his tluid guitar styl_e to many predominantly white crowds, stopping at Notre Dame each year and increasing the number of his Irish supporters. This "young" bluester (30-ish) has definitely been influenced by rock music, and has gotten noticeably better with each festival. Robinson's back-up band also deserves mention (as do all the other bands) for excellent time­keeping and not-often-enough individual solos. 
The Saturday night session of the Midwest Blues Festival started with the honky-tonk piano of Lazy Bill Lucas. This bluesman of considerable experience (50 years) and stage presence entertained the crowd with his collection of older Delta blues songs with raspy vocals and stride piano. Although he looked like he would fall asleep on stage, he continued playing past 3 a.m. at Vegetable Buddies. 
T n t t c ntin ed · t e s nior citizens vein with Guitar Red, Big John Wrencher, and their Chicago Blues Jam Band. These Chicago unknowns played a great set of urban blues, trading solo licks between the two guitars and Wrencher on harmonica, all the while looking like they were having the best fun. The crowd the bassist had been a bit interesting. but his mediocrity was unfortunately notice­able. 
The headline act for Saturday was one of the realy virtuosos of guitar, Albert King. His style is as good as any blues guitarist or any performing guitarist around. He overtones. 
Unbelie'vablv, some turkey then threw an object at ·Albert King: hitting him squarely on the head. In one fell toss the person ruined the Midwest Blues Festival for all who performed in it. produced it. and all who enjoyed it. One can onlv hope 

couldn't figure out Wrencher with his bald head, sunglasses, pin-striped suit and one-handed harmonica style, but they liked the way he sounded. Guitar Red was a superb slide guitar player who unfortun­ately has gone undetected for years, only now recording his first album. 
The back-up band was peculiar in that the bassist and drummer played with some of the earlier performing artists, making me wonder how impromptu this appear­ance was. It wouldn't have been so bad if 
by Dauid O'Keefe From the Second City 

made his Gibson guitar. named Lucy, sing with each lead solo and roar thr;mgh each song. bending each note until it couldn't ben bent any further. Albert got the crowd up on its feet and jumping to his renditions of "Stormy Monday," "Born Under a Bad Sign." "Cross-Cut Saw" and others. His band. The Westmoreland Co., was also notable, especially the sax-flute player and a fantastic rhythm-lead guitarist. They helped Albert cook the crowd through about 45 minutes of verv hot urban blues with a lot of old rhythm and blues 
Second City brought their unique brand of irreverant insanity to O'Laughlin Audi­torium Saturday night. Combining nutty fun, searing satire and some bittersweet but funny stuff, this talented troop left the capacity crowd somewhat confused and thoroughly amused after a relentless two-hour assault on their collective funny bone. 
For the uninformed, Second City is the Chicago-based band of comics that boasts such successful alumni as Alan Arkin. Valerie Harper, David Steinberg. Elaine May and Joan Rivers. They are the comic counterpart of the streetgang. stand-uo streetfighters who substitute satire anu sketches for switchblades and rumbles. &rash and innovative, they can make Kierkegaardian Existentialism as appro­priately funny as Henny Youngr;lan's fly-in-the-soup. 
One of the evening's funniest bits concerned the efforts of the super­intellectual University of Chica&o to re­institute its football program. The skit depicted an organizational meeting attend­ed by three prospective gridders; a theology major, a music student, and a young man pursuing a program in the history of arithmetic. By the time it was over, the young geniuses has twisted the weary coach's basic-concepts approach so severely that his explanation of a simple play sounded like so much unintelligible scholarly verblese: "The quarterback takes the semi-demi-ellipsoid-spheroid from the center at the 47-yard-line­that he has not ruined the chance for the Blues Festival to continue. 
The Festival was set-up to be a learning experience for those people who are not familiar with the blues, but if a majority of the crowd wants to be at Nickic's. then whv have a Festival? Even if we can talk some artists into taking a chance. what chance do we have for a comfortable. laid-hack atmosphere that we have alway' enjoyed at Stepan concerts? 
Hmmm, maybe this place Is pretty Unl·ooJ. 
segment. .. " They even have a cheer: 
Thucydides. Euripides, Peloponnc~i;tn 
War 

Aristotle. Socrates. H2S04! 
Progress. Chicago!. Progress, Chicago! 
Yeah! 

Another skL.-tch dealt with a young man and woman, thrown togcthn hv a com­puter ,latmg service, who take an immedi­ate anr hostile dislike to one another. The\ discover that their common interest in 
ventriloquism. and in a splendid piece of semi-comedy. usc their dummies o disclose their insecurities and loneliness to each other. It was a trulv tender moment in the midst of the evening's madness. and the audience was not insensitive to it. 
A lot of their humor is highly topical. For example, a Chicago news report: "Well, today is a day that Chicagoans will not long forget. Mayor Richard J. Daley was defeated in his bid for a seventh consecutive term. The 76-year-old Daley was soundly beaten by his Republican opponent in a landslide. In other news ... Hell freezes over ... The Pope is not Catholic ... And bears reportedly do not ---­in the woods." 
Bawdy, bizarre and downright out­rageous. Second City gave the audience what they came for: an evening of raucous, no-holds-barred entertainment that left them standing and cheering at the end. It was a delight to have them come from Old Town and put he Laugh in O'Laughlin like it's never been done before. 
------~ 

the observer Monday, November 8, 1976 
~~--------~~~~~~~~ 


Alcohol called 'hidden problem, awareness goal of conference 
Icontinued from page IJ The !ilm, entitled "Booze and Yous" is aimed "at university students and primarily at those already drinking," according to Engs. She recently conducted a national survey of 13 colleges in as many ~tate'>. involving I ,000 ~tudenh. "The studv revealed that although there ha~ been little change in drinking behavior of college student'> over the past ten \Tar~. there is a marked increase in the ;mareness of alcohol abuse as a problem.·· she reported. l.ar~cn noted that, contrary to popular belief. ''Alctlhol is not lll'L'l'~'>arilv a symptom of a deeper problem. Rather, alcohol i'> used "llllctinll'~ as a treatment for 'I 111ptom., of a problem instead of lrt ating the pmbkm ihelf." J\koh"i i~ :t 1 li'~L·d nhen "alcohol llch.tvior 1' illL'tlll'. '-lent with life .l!o;d.~." acL·nrding t l Larsen. Frida\·~ sL·..,..,i,.n uf the semmar ended with a snie~ of short tilms <k~igncd to "triggpr" thought on 'ariou., aspects of the probiL'm. and wa~ followed at o p.m. by dinner in the Facultv Dining Room of South Dining Hall and at 7 p.m. by an optional tilm on the physiological dfcl'ts of alcohol. 
Saturday's pro~ram 
The senmd session of the Alcohol Awareness Seminar 1nl'luded a panel disc1.1ssion of five, moderated by Pat Tack, Student Clnvernment Academic Com­missioner. She called the eonfer­L'nce a start on alcohol awareness at Notre Dame. 
Studen't Life Council (SLC) President Mike Casey cited a poll taken last year in which 80 percent of Notre Dame students agreed that drinking is important for social interaction. He maintained that the University. which supposedly commits itself to education of the entire self through community living. is denying the students the valuable Pxperience of learning to drink ~:esponsibly, by enforcing an unnatural drinking environment. 

Fr. Conyers, rector of Keenan Hall, proposed to the SLC and Student Governme.nt that a com­mittee on "common space pri­ority" be established to effect efficient use of presently-wasted dorm areas for normal social gatherings. Social life is impeded in dorms with limited common space, he said. 
"Students are forced to the corridors to drink because the concept of re£identiality is not the priority it should he. Twenty-two feet of space (calculated space per male in one dorm) for nine month~ is inhumane," he commented. 
Conyers cited the New Keenan Revue and following party offering 11 inc and non-alcoholic drinks as a major innovation in ND social life. He suggested that other dorms could fund such gatherings, allowing for the availability of alcohol. but only as a sideline to the activit~· itself. . 
It was noted by one seminar participant that if the drinking age is lowered to 19 before the end of the year. a pub may be opened in the LaFortune basement. 
Drinking mentality must change 
Panel members J. P. Russell, chairman of the HPC. and Ken Girouard, Executive Coordinator of Student Government, stres~ed, however, that a lowering of the drinking age is not the answer to alcohol l)buse at NO, but that the present enculturation of under­classmen into the Notre Dame drinking norm must be changed Students learn their drinking habits here, they claimed, and they can be taught how to host creative p.uties with no emphasis on "the number of kegs." 
Afterwards, Lt. Vaughn of Navy 
R.O.T.C. and John Mcintosh of StudentDeveloping Programs, described their instruction of 
N.R.O.T.C. and freshman seminar related problems and the re· 
sponsible attitude of stude ·t~ 
toward alcohol in the college 
environment. 

Peggy Barnum, alcohci 
counselor for Psychological St·•""r­
ices, and volunteers for S.O.A .. · 
(Students on Alcohol Problen:sJ 
described S.O.A.P., 3 newly­
formed campus orga'lization, 
which features a referral ~~rvice for 
students with alcohol-related 
problems and a crisis-intt rvention 
service, offering on-the-spot aid to 
troubled students under tl e influ­
ence of alcohol. 

According to Barnum, , pprox­
imately 5 percent or 400 stud ~nts at 
ND "might be .alcoholics." 

University President Fr. 
Hesburgh called alcohol ab 1se a 
"destructive problem," espe~ially 
when evidenced in younger puple. 
He praised the seminar a, an 
example of "people caring ahout 
one another." 

Mary Clare McCabe, Director of 
Student Development, said sh• 
viewed the seminar as an example 
of education outside the classroom, 
aimed at teaching creative leader­
ship and responsible decision­
making. 

In conclusion, Keith Hewitt, of the National Clearinghouse for Alcohol Information, commended Notre Dame for th(' seminar. He urged Student Covernment to d~ve'lop preventior strategies to decrease damagt related to drinking and the ch.::nce of students developing an over-dependence on drinking. 
"Students must be taught to art of pleasurable, but safe drink'ng, because alcohol is tne major cause of death for people between the ages of 18 and 24." warned Hewitt. 
Committee members who organized the seminar include J. P. Russell, Pat Tack, Ken Girouard, Peggy. Barnum, Mary Clare McCabe, Debbie Kenny and Debra Grady. 

Students attacked by outsiders 
students on the use of alcohoi, the 
ll·ontinued from page II walking. a group of black teenagers came behind Mark Budd and hit him. Budd fell to the group and sort of crawled up in a ball. I reacted quick enough. but Lisa Becker didn't move, fast enough and got hit in the neck. She was ~tunned for awhile. Then one of the older black men helped to get the girls in our group away from the teenagers." Erkins continued. "Then Rob Howard was down on the ground. He was kicked somewhat and his face was cut," Erkins added. Bangs. Budd and Howa~d all were kicked and have swollen eyes as a result of the beating. Becker received some bruises. Carnev, Frkins and Maher were not hurt. The students were treated at the Infirmary and then released. Anoth~r group of students, Mark Kosnik. Rav Salamone and Joe 
Kenney. alt' from Pangborn, were walking back to their dorm from the Math and Computer Center at 
II :45 p.m.. when they were attacked. ·'There were kids running around everywhere." Kenney said. 
"We thought there was some t\·pe of pep rally. We were near the Law Building when a group ofblaek kids, about 100 teenagers, ... urrounded us. One of the kids _,l'iled out, 'Hey, who wants to light'?' Next thing I knew, I was down on the ground and being kicked." Kennev stated. 
All three students went to St. Joseph County Hospital. Kosnik and Kenney were treated for facial lacerations and released. Salamone was not treated. 

Attack near Law Building Another incident occurred about the same time, when David Williams, his brother Chris, .and friend Dave Kowalsh were walking back from C-3 parking lot towards Dillon Hall. -• · • · • , .. 
"I noticed a disturbance in front of the bus stop.'' David Williams ~aid. "Then I noticed a group of black kids were beating up on somf kids. We wanted to avoid it, so we tried to go near the Law Building. All of a sudden, about eight to ten black kids noticed us and started to beat us up." Williams continued. 
"The kids who beat us up took my wallet and my brother's wallet. My brother was at that point unconscious. We dragged our­selves over to Dillon Hall and went to our rector's (Fr. Daniel Jenk\) room. Our rector then called Security and they came and took us to the hospital." Williams added. 
David Williams was treated and released from St. Joseph County Hospital for bruises of the right eye and right hip. Chris Willi~ms, 15, was also treated at St. Joe Hospital for a broken tooth, scrapes and bruises of the face and then released. Chris Williams was again treated Sunday afternoon at a hospital in his hometown of Argue, Indiana, for a concussion. Dave Kowalski was treated at the Infirmary and released. 
Another incident occurred around midnight when Melanie Kirk and Nancy Devaney were walking near LaFortune Center. 
"Nancy and I were walking back 
from  a  party  at  Keenan,"  Kirk  
said.  "Then  about  100 black  
people  came  running  out  of  

LaFortune Center and glass was crashing. Then a kid near us turned to Nancy and me and said, 'We better get out of here," Kirk continued. 
"The next thing we knew, all three of us had been thrown to the ground and we were being kicked,'' Kirk added. 
The three went to St. Joseph County Hospital, were treated and released. Devaney was treated for a b~uised.jaw ancl J(ifk w:as treated for some bruises: , 
One unidentified. teenager, was arrested for disorderly conduct, assault, vandalism and possession of marijuana when he threw a brick at the south doors of LaFortune Center, cracking the glass, according to Dean Roemer. 
Tobias, in a statement Sundav 
night,  said,  "We  are  very  sorry  
about  what  happened  Saturday  
night.  It is all very regrettable.  

We do not condone any actions of this nature whether on. campus or off campus. We would like to point out that there were no University students involved in the incidents, other than those who were attacked. We would also like to point out that there were some South Bend people who did not participate in the violence, but assisted us in breaking it up. It is 
[continued on page 31 

As a woman Air Force ROTC student, you compete for your commission on the same footing as the men in ·your class. And later on you wear the same insignia. 
There are two:year, three-year, and four-year scholarship programs available to help you get there. If you enroll in the four-year Air Force ROTC prograro you also qualify to compete for a scholarship for the remaining two or three ·years as a cadet. Tuition is covered, fees are paid, textbook costs reimbursed ... plus $100 a month, tax free. 
For information contact 
Capt. Davis 283-6635. 
cAirc;...,,.ce~<Dcce 
<gate~vwa<&reat


CWav'-'!~~ 


at the opening of the conference of the Catholic Committee on ·Urban Ministry last night. [Photo by Tony Chifari] 

CCUM opens conference 
"Ministry Towards Empower· ment" is the theme of the 1976 fall conference of the Catholic Com­mittee on Urban Ministry (CCUM), which opened at the Monogram Room of the A.C.C. last night. The conference will continue through Nov. 11. 
Fr. Philip Murian, chairman of CCUM and director of pastoral research in the Archdiocese of New York, outlined the basic directions in which CCUM is heading. 
Murian said that CCUM must work to assist the deprived :md to further the liberation of women, become more skillful in gathedug data, increase religious education, work for the people and be servants· of all, and respect the life of every person, following the example of Cesar Chavez. 
Thomas Hroden, director of the Institute for Urban Studies at Notre Dame, and Sister Marjorie Tuite, O.P., a faculty member of the Jesuit School of Theology in Chicago, also addressed the gathering. Peggy Roach is the conference coordinator. 
Broden gave a brief history of CCUM and spoke about ·'A Call to Action," a social ministry meeting held in Detroit last month. 
The meeting marks the tenth anniversary ofCCUM's founding in 1967 by Msgr. John J. Egan·. who recently resigned as chairman. Egan was named special assistant to Notre Dame University President Fr. Theodore He'>l,ur~h at the beginning of this academic year. 


11 a.m.to 11 p.m. 233-0385 ' 526 Western Ave., 
South Bend 
i'

~-------,__..j·.' ..... 'r.-..... . . . . ...~ 
BE A STAR!!11!! 11 
HOLLYWQ()D NEEDS YOU just follow the yellow brick road to 
MARDI GRAS '77 
organizational meeting Lafortune Ballroom Tuesday, November 9 at '7:30pm. 
l*******'!f.'**.,_..~~~~~~**




~THE TRIP IS ON!!~
* BusTrip ~ 
~ & Concert Ticket i' 



UHE EAGLESi
* iC
* Thursday Nov.ll iC ~ Chicago Stadium ~ * Price-$16 iC 
~ BUSSES LEAVE THE MAIN CIRCLE ~ lt ·AT 5:30pm iC
* Tickets on sale Friday Nov. 6.-! ».-.· · . · , ·s.u~. Ticket Office """ 
-~·~*****~*****·*·*'***•···· ·· · 


6-3, 4-:3 scores 
Hockey team loses twice 
by Chip Scanlon offense never really got untracked, middle period. But Denver's ZajacSports Writer attempting only 12 shots in the got the goal back with 54 seconds period with only three on target. left and kept their 3 goal margin,
Moher stopped 14 shots. one a pad 4-1. 
Denver Denver save on a Pioneer breakaway. With Notre Dame skating its proved to the Irish that preseason But the third period was ;til best of the year. Dick Howe started polls mean nothing on the score­Denver .. With Notre Dame opening things off with a scoring wrist shot 
board. Denver caught Notre Dame up the offense Denver scored to to the upper corner on the out­
sleeping on Friday night, domina­make it 3-1. Clark Hamilton 
standing Bales. ting the Irish 6-3, and then slung to retaliated for the Irish just 8 
Then freshman Ted Weltzin '! 3-0 first period advantage to win seconds later with an unassisted scored I 7 seconds after Howe after 4-3 on Saturday for a sweep of the goal but the Pioneers reeled off 
taking a pass from fellow freshman series. three unanswered goals \>y Camp­Tom Michalek 
Friday night the Pioneers came bell, Bel€ourt and Messier to put it With the tempo changing. the out skating from the opening out of reach. Greg Meredith Irish went on the power play with faceoff and shocked the Irish. finished off the scoring for the Irish 9:21 gone whengreg Woods was 
Using effective checking all over with a power play goal with 13 
called for an illegal check. Then the ice, Denver took advantage of seconds left. 
Cal Sandbeck was sent off for 
Notre Dame's injury riddled de­Saturday night the Irish didn't tripping and Notre Dame enjoyed a fense, converting on two shots from deserve their fate. Despite a two-man advantage for I :07. close-in on Irish netminder Len hustling display. Denver capital­Notre Dame couldn't get things
Moher. ized on Irish mistakes in their own clicking and when they did Pioneer · Moher was spectacular in defeat end and led 3-0 after the first goalie Bales stopped everything.for the Irish, making 26 saves period. After Lindsay Thonson The Irish pulled Moher with I :08 
through 2 periods on Friday night beat Moher on an unaccosted shot remaining but even the extra and keeping Notre Dame in the from 10 feet out, Cal Sandbeck attacker didn't help. Jim Bales game with a scoreless second scored on a play that characterized stopped 49 shots for the Pioneers to period. the Irish frustration. help boost Denver to a 2-2 record in 
The Irish battle, back for one Sandbeck floated a wrist shot on 
the WCHA while Notre Dame goal in the tirst. Terry Fairholm goal that changed direction to beat slipped to 1-3. 
was set up by brother Don and a screened Moher. Then, two Donny Fairholm continued to pick up scoring points but the Irish Kevin Nugent via some pretty minutes later Alex Belcourt fired to dropped two at Denver over the weekend. passing in front of Pioneer goalie beat Moher to his left and the Irish 
Jim Bales. found thenselves down, 3-0. The Irish travel next to Ann 
The second period was a battle The Irish power play got rolling Arbor to play Michigan with the between Moher and Bales as each for one of its 3 goals this weekend Friday and Saturday night games netminder was able to frustrate the with Clark Hamilton in a getting underway at 7:30 E.S.T. Oakland Raiders 28 
Chicago Bears 27 

CHICAGO [API -Ken Stabl~r hurled three touchdown passes. i'1cluding two to Cliff Branch for 75 and 49 yeards. yesterda~· to give the Oakland Raiders a hard-fought. come-from-behind 28-27 victory O\'er the Chicago Bears. . 
The Bears' final chance of pulling out a victory died when Bob Thomas_ 31-yard .field goal attempt hit the upright and bounced back with 1~ seconds remaining. . 
Stabler's winning touchdown pass came of the 4.9-ya'ld stnke to Branch with 4:33 left in the game and erased a 17-21 Ch1cago lead. The Be~rs exploded for 20 points in the third quarter but bobbled an e:rtra-pomt attempt which proved to be the margin of defeat. 
Walter Payton, playing on an Injured ankle, socred three touchdowns, two in the big third quarter, but the Raiders pic~ed up their eigh~ yietory in nine starts while the Bears suffered their fifth loss aga1ast four victories. 
Payton put the Bears ahead with a five-yard run in the first quarter before Stabler hit Dave Casper with a 17-yard touchdown pass and camf ··ight back with the 75-yard bomb to Branch. . 
Oakland made if 21-7 on a two-yard touchdown run tly Cljlrence Dav1s after the Raiders had recovered a Bears fumble on the Chicago 21. 
r The Bears roared back with three touchdowns. one resulting from a gambling onside kick, to take a 27-21 lead be~ore ~ta?ler_ hurled, his winning pass to Branch, who fought off detendmg Vtrgtl Ltvers for the 
Come sun, rain, or snow, the Notre Dame Rugby Club appears to c~mpl~te its appointe«! task. 
ball. [Photo by Tony Chifar•iJ]----------------------------..1-~~~~=~:::;-~~";::~~C:~:tui':f:=-Pa"f&'T::~--"'
• paradise. upen Wed., Sat., Sun. congratulations Pat & Tom! 
9-7. Ralph Casperson Books, 1303 T, L. M & K. TYPIN~ · $.3:5 a paoe. Call Dan · Buchanan Road, Niles, Mich.
Friend from there coming here? . And whose underwear were
683-2888. JBM



Classified Ads
272-5549. 
Well, some people like snow & ice seen on Sunday morning in theand 1 need 1 or 2 GA or student (with

This is cut on JBM & BAN day. Best offer 1 Barna ticket. Pat or Phil W a Ish laundry room?
ID) Miami tickets. Dave 1173 5-7 GA Alat:>ama tickets before we 8582.
8-11-76. 
p.m. or after midnight. discover our awaiting fate. Call Terri Congratulations Pat & Tom!! Neat, accuratE! typing of term pa­or Diane 7853. Will trade Chicago concert tickets
NEED DESPERATELY 2 STUDENT 

pers, manuscripts. Call 287-5162. for Barna pass .or tix. Mark 233-4953 CC, What's better: peaches or
TICKETS FOR ALABAMA GAME. If you know people who need ride cherries? BoboCALL TOM AT 1633 OR 1639. from Long Island for Alabama game
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho H EIERLING SKI BOOTS. Top
(leave Thurs. nile, return Sunday),Need 2 GA Barna tickets. Need not share expenses. Call Chris 288·9768 233-8622 after 5. 
232-0746. Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. flight. Like new. Size 11. S75. Call I won't ask. 
be together. Call 289-1056. 

JBM . Presents are due! Crackers $20-150. 1 day wait. 1 percent Speakers: Two Re'alistic MC.1000 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 

---------------Really desperately need 2 GA Miami 
NEED SOMEONE TO DRIVE

interest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune tix. Call Cindy at 4-4092. speakers. 8" woofer 2" tweeter, ROTC Jock, Do we look like a
GIRLFRIEND FROM ALBANY TO

Basement. M-F 11:15-12:15. excellent condition. Retail $120 pair, laundromat???? 109
NO & BACK FOR W EEKENO•• Will pay dollars for 2 GA Alabama my price is $75. Call 1581 evenings.
CALL BILL 1540. 

tix. Call Tom 3693.
Off-campus in1erhall hockey sign-up Persoanls Afraid to speak up with .people? in interhall office by 5 p.m. Thurs. Learn to be assertive at the Asser. 
Need 2 GA Miami tickets. Call Bev lion Training Workshop. First ses
day and include phone number. Desperately need 2 GA Alabama Little Charlie & Big Charlie like
287-2219. 
sion of four on Thursday Nov. 11. AUDIO OUTt-ET: All top-name ~~~:.5~~~~~------7.9 p.m., Room 400 Adm. Bid.
Bobo. 
Need 6 ·Alabama tickets. At least 2 Inquire Counseling Center 1717.
sterio equipment. Wholesale. Call Needed: Two Chicago concert tic­Shame on you, Deebles!
GA. Call Bev 287-2219.
283· 1181. kets. Call Ed at 683-7506. 
JD, Had a great time last night! L &

Before Leap Year is done, have
Must net 4 or 5 Alabama tickets or I K,G
Need 2 Alabama tickets. Call some fun and find a "Hun".
"Yill b·e disowned by family. Call
Lost & Found Martha at 1715 or 2116. 

Stan 289-4740. · ·. Nov. 8, '75 Nov. 8, '76.
Mary Ann W issei, this is the Lost: Calculator (SR 50A) between Need Alabama tickets sorneth in' highlight of your life, your very own PC. 
Need Emergency.
the circle and the Library on N D fierce. Call Martha at 4819. BAMA tix. Call personal. Thanks for this past year of fun and Ave. Thurs. ninht Oct. 28. Please 
any time. Judie 4452. enjoyment. you've made it the best return. Call Ben 233-4222. Need 8 GA Alabama tix. Call Chris Mary Doyle, do you really get a thrill 
year ever for me. Love. 

Need two Alabama tix. Call Nancy 
Mike

at 8336. out of cutting throats just for Art
1276.
To the bstd. w110 stole Calif. license Trads.? · 
plate 565 JM V I want it back. Call Wealthy relatives need 2 GA Ala­From the Kids, Who is this 
Please HELP!!! 1 despera1ely need 3 G.stringing us along?
1747.' bama tickets. Top dollar! Call Leo Colleen Creighton . CHOKE · my
GA Alabama tickets for parents & a
3278. throat hurts.
pr;est. Call Stephanie 1364. 
That's good, Deebles. very good! 

bar area Sat. nile. Reward Ph. ~a Need 3 GA tix or 1 student and 2 GA TJ. Lights, cameras, action · you're You should know better than to put 4375. to Miami. Ci!JII Betsy 4298 or. Jim in the personal column. 
Gray Army-type hat aroung Corby's 
For Sale it in the Monday paper, though. 1188. 
A couple more ads and you'll get my

IBM SELECTRIC TYPEWRITER for 
comeback.

LOST: Camera and attachments Jeffy, Where are you?
sale. Excellent condition. Call 7037.
from occupant's room in Old Field Desperately need Barna tix. Call House !Art Dept.) over October Ruth 7136 or 272-3513. Take a chance for Dance and JD, Are you going to let him get
'71 MG Midget. New top. 26,000 away with that??
break. Film in camera is important. Romance.
miles. $1750. Call 289-4702.
Owner would !Jreatly appreciate its Ski for Free! 15 min. from Notre JBM & Crackers, What's wrongreturn. Call 1354 or 4-4820. Dame. Are you a Certified Ski Anyone interested in Jesuit Volun­
Red girl's Austrian ski boots. Like
Instructor, or just an ardent skier teer Corps . meet with representa. with the ROTC building? CRGJ 
new. Size -6.5. $90.00. Call 4-5428.
'air of keys on Cartier Field who would enjoy instructing? Apply live Tues, 2 p.m. Campus Ministrysidelines. Please call 283-7516. immediately Royal Valley Ski Re­office in Badm. 
We're not kidding.

MILLER HIGH LIFE AND MILLER
sort, Main St. Buchanan, Mich. 

LITE golf hats, golf shirts, T-shirts 
I'm still thinking, Chris.

c.;~;;-clo'~-~~k;;;--;;;t~;,IY 616-695-3847. Jerry: quit using our phone number
and winter hats for sale. Low prices.
traded at Nor1'h Dining Hall, Line as a point of reference.
Bob 8361.
A-B, on Nov. 1, you've got my large Need 2 Ga Alabama tickets. Call Crackers, Don't fence us out! CG and I've got your extra large· with Claire 6833. SKR, We still love you! Come and 
gloves. Call 1160. 1969 Datsun Classic 1800. All new see us! GBC ROTC Jock, Is it true what they say
paint, tires, interior. Excellent cond­
Typing wanted · picked up and about navigators? CG 
..
ition. Low mileage. 52000 or better. Robby,
delivered. Reasonable. Diane 272-3236. We like you! 

ROTC Jock . Want to get more wineWanted 683-7759. 
The Charlies 

and watch Snoopy? Need 2 good l>oobie Bros. tix. Call Our friends have given up on the 
MEXICAN BELTS: finest leather 
Mule,
Paul 1066. idea to tickle us to death, promising belts available only $10.00. Call BIG Dear Kids, Ask Deebles how he
Today makes a year that you and your naught~, -beaming·llalian have .. ' , ·BOOK SHqP. Used books. Students been together. Ws been something­you along, but 1do hold 
,MONEY MURF anytime a.t 234-8858 really got that name. 
. . special! Love, Kc;: .G 


--~~~...,. 
-
the observer Monday, November 8, 1976 


Wreck rambles through Irish 23-14 
by Fred Herbst perfection as Tech used a series of Sports Editor options and counter playes to 
victimize an Irish defense that ATLANTA-"The Ramblin' Wreck entered the game with a reputation of Georgia Tech; they're not for being able to stop the famed ramhlin'. hut they sure arc wishbone attack. "They were just wrcck,·d.'' simple counter and option playes. 
It"-.. ohviou~ that whoever said Their defense had such excellent that wa-..n't at Grant Field Saturday pursuit. we just ran under them," '"' Tech'~ wi~hbonc offense Rodgers explained. r:111~hkd through a wrecked Notre After the Yellow Jackets had 
Dame ddcn~c to score a 2.1-14 jumped out to a 3-0 lead !early in up-..,·t win over the lri~h. the second quarter, Notre Dame I he )o.,., all but eliminated the answered with two AI Hunter 
lri'>h from contention for a major touchdowns to move ahead 14-3. hm\ I hid. The Irish looked impressive taking Led hv David Sims' yards rush­the lead as they marched down the inL· tlw Ydlow Jackets rolled up licld seemingly at will on two ~ustained drives.
I• ··'· \·arch in total offense --all of it on the ground as they simply With Notre Dame dominating rammed the hall down the throat of the contest. and holding an the N<•tre Dame defense. Tech 11-point advantage, the game came didn't thnm a single pa~-.. all to its turning point. Irish mentor afternoon. "Our winning Dan Devine called for a timeout depended on us shortening the with 40 seconds remaining in the 
galllL', ·· Georgia Tech ht·ad coach lirst half with Georgia Tech faced l'l'pper ){odger~ said. "By running with a third and seven situation at the hall we were able to usc the their own 36-yard line. Tech had 
dm·k. keep the hall away from been running out the clock, but the Notre Dame and avoid turnovers.·· time out gave them aple time to set Hodgers· game plan worked to up a lin a I play. 
Chip Spina \====================~:=:::::...-:.-::::=:::::::::=:::::::=============:::::::======::=======~==========:::===:========= 

Tech as in Wreck 

=·=~==·=·===·:·===:=:=:=====:~=:========:.;~=~=:=====~=:=:===:::=:=:~=:==~~:;._;;;;;;;;;;;; High and Inside 
The lir'>t cracks in the facade appeared two weeks ago in Columbia. SPuth Carolina. Last weeks 11ear loss to Navy served notice of things to come. And yc~tcrday in Jimmy Carter's sur.ny, happy Georgia the victory party· of the Sout.l which started early Wednesday morning continued as the Rambling Wreck of Georgia Tech stunned the reeling Irish with a 2J-14win. Beautiful Atlanta thcpride oftheSouth.putforthaperfect ~etting for the upset. It seemed to be in the script. 
Something has happened to this team which swept to several impressive victc~ies after the opening daydisaster. Or perhaps the reality of the situation has finally surfaced. Although bringing the streak to six after the Navy game. those last two wins were cliff-hangers over teams of less than championship ability. And now, a second loss on the season, this time to a team which brought its record to .500 only with yesterday's win. leaves the usual touting of the Irish as a nationally ranked team in serious doubt. 
ND was lackluster for the entire game Saturday, but the second half performance was especially telling. The Irish. for the third week in a row, unaccountably seemed content to sit on a small lead instead of continuing the game. Witness these facts: 

At SC. the Irish led 13-3 at half and barely hung on for a 13-6 win. At Cleveland. ND led 24-14 and snuck by with a 27-21 decision. Finally, Atlantans saw the Irish trv to hold a 14-10 lead. This time it didn't work. l.ook at those sta again·. Three games equaling six quarters of second half play. The result: three points ~cored. One loss, two near defeats. Have Coach Devine and his staff been so lulled by those four successive romps that they forget to tell the team that the game lasts four quarters, not two'! 
The Irish defense. no longer impenetrable. was unable to stop Pepper Rodger's wishbone attack. The Yellow Jackets threw exactly no (that's zero) pas~e., in the entire game. The running strategy instead served as the offense and was ahlc to gain four or five yards at will, it seemed, especially in the second half. Final totals showed Tech outgaining the Irish Jo8-178 yards. 
The Irish offense. a-.. that stastic shows. was barely functioning. Rick Slager hit Ken MacAfec for a few nice gains, but overall Irish passers went 8-19. AI Hunter had both TD's and most of the team's 107 yards rushing. The scoring attack was just plain inconsistent all day. 
The turning point of the game for Tech came in the second quarter.Drew 

-I ill 1brokc off a 45 yard run, and Luther Bradley came over to make the tackle. Regardless of his intent. Bradley pushed Hill out of hounds. and then. in what to many was a flagrant cheap shot. continued pu..,hing Tech's man and slammed him into a bench far from the sideline. Whl'IIIL'r or not it was intentional. the Irish were assessed an unnecessary rnughness penalty. Tech and all Atlanta got tired up. and the result is hi~tory. For the tirst time since 1959, the Engineers had a win over ND. 
Now. with a b-2 record and three games remaining, what lies ahead for the Irish'! Mathematically. of course. a 9-2 record and possibly a major bowl hid. But taking into account thr performances of the team in the last three week~ and the fact that the toughest part of the schedule lies ahead. the r.calistic a'>~essment is bleak. Alabama is 7-2 and getting stronger each week. You can he sure Bear Bryant has the revenge factor going for his if nothing else. Southern Cal still has a very real shot at the National Championship. Neither game looks inviting to a Notre Dame team currentlv on the skids. 
Bowl bids come out before the USC game. So, the whole season somes dm' 11 to this Saturday's game. it would appear. The Irish will have that nwch needed home field advantage. Disappointment and uncertainty will mk with the fans into Notre Dame Stadium Saturday. Let's hope, for all ruvolved but especially for the team, that all can rally against 'Bama. It '>LTms doubtful that a respectable (in the Irish sense of the word) bowl bid would be offered to a team going downhill with three losses. Dan Devine's second ~cason and how it will be judged lies in the balance Saturday. If the trend continues, if the coaching staff and the team are unable to turn awund what they have produced recently, then the season will surely end. for better or worse. in Los Angeles November 27. Pride is on the line. 
*********************** 

.. Purdue's shocking upset of #l Michigan clouds the bowl picture. It wo~l? no~ seem p~obable that the Big Ten will again fill two of the eight postttons_m the maJor bowls. That leaves only one spot open, presuming new #I Pttt for the Orange Bowl. Should the Irish turn around, the Gator 
Bowl may be the best offer given. Meanwhile. Northwestern 10, Minnesota 38. Fifteen in a row. But there's only two games, thankfully, left in the season. 
On the next play, Drew H.ll took a pitchout on the end-around and sprinted 46 yards down the sideline to the Notre Dame 18. On the tackle Luter Bradley was penalized for unnecessary roughness as he three Hill into the Tech bench. The penalty moved the ball to the Irish eight-yard line with 29 seconds to play. On the next snap. quarter­back Gary Lanier kept on the option play around left end to score. The hectic II seconds that had elapsed allowed Tech to go into the locker room at the half trailing by only four. 14-10, instead of II. 
After the game, Devine admitted that calling the time out may have been a mistake. "If I had it to do over again, I wouldn't have called time out at the end of the tirst half." he said. "It was third and seven and I thought we could stop them and force them into a punting situation." 
Rodgers also felt that :he end of the first half was the key to the· game. "Hill's run wa-. the key play for us." he noted. .. fhe play twt only fired us up. l:>u1 it gaH· us seven points. Seven points are better than being fired any d:tv. · · 
The second half belonged to rl)c Georgia Tech def,~nsc and to halfback David Sims. Notre Dame could only .ua nagc a ml'ag< r 4Q yards total off•. nse and four first downs. In th•: meantime. Sims raced for 59 yards and notched two touchdowns. t• put Tech ahead 23-14 and senrre the victory for the Yellow J ackcts. 
Tech got their go-ahl'ad score in the third quarter using the same counter play that had burned the Irish all aftemoon. Bo Thomas broke off the right side for 45 yards to the Notre Dame 35. After trying the Ptiddle for three yards. Sims burst off the rkht side for 20 yards to th·~ Irish !2. A play later, Sims again kept off the right side, going ten yards to p:-ydirt. Tech missed the extra point and the score stood at 16-14. 
The Yellow Jackets iced the game in the fourth quarter by marching 66 yards on IS plays to score. Sims crushed what hope remained for the Irish with an 18-yard touchdown sprint with J:SJ to play giviug Tech a 'commanding 23-14 lead. The drive used more than seven minutes of playing time. with Thomas and Eddie Lee hcry doing the bulk of the work. 
"We felt that we'd ev·.,ntually get everything together. and we did." Sims said. "I cau't think of a better game to win than this one. Notn.. Dame is nationally ranked and has a great tradirion. It \\'as a great win. The coaches called all the right plays, thl' line blew >ff the ball and everyone exel'uted really well." 
Ivery added 81 yards to thl' Tech , arse while Thomas ran for SO. AI Hunter led the Irish gn'UncJ game Nith !'II yards with Terry Eurick 1dding 35. Rick Slager provided Nl'at remained of the Notre Oitme offen ,. · connecting on eight l•f IQ pass ltempts for 71 yanh. 
Notre Dame's frustration.;; ·~ante ,o light, when Devine sent ;n R!J.·,fy Lisch at quartcrhack to attempt a flee flicker play with three minutes to play. The play, like almo~t at) the others used by the Irish in th•· second half, found the Tech defense waiting for it and to.:iled miserably, resulting in a yard loss. 
"It was a well-executed count :r play that was fooling us.'' Devine observed. "1 hey played a ncar perfect game. We had to do i1 ourselves offensively and defens­ively. and we didn't." 
The loss was the first by a Notre Dame team to Georgia Tech since 1959. Oddly enough, Saturday was homecoming for the Yellow Jackets, who haven't lost a home­coming game since 195-J. 
Tech entered the game with a 3-4-l record, coming off a crushing 3J-7 defeat at :he hands of Duke last week. ''This game aimost makes our season,'' Rodgers said. "A coach's primary responsiblity when he's not having the season he'd like is to keep his tea 1 playing hard so that when his pi? ers walk 

~ 
Coach Dan Devine watched his Irish fall to their second defeat of 
the season at the hands of Georgia Tech 23-14 in Atlanta 
off the field, win or lose, they can The Notre Dame defense. which 
respect themselves. "d1ey played set a school record last week by not 
hard today and I'm really proud of allowing a touchdown for the 21st 
tJ:,:m: I could live to be a thous.md consecutive quarter, has now 
wars old and not be ary more allowed six touchdowns and 47 
proud of my team than 1 a·m right points in their last seven quarters. 
now." Georgia Tech will try to keep 
Notre Dame has stalled in the their new-found success intact. as 
second half of each of their last they travel to meet Navy this 
three games. The Irish have ,·ailed weekend while Notre Dame will be 
to register a touchdown in the home to host the Crimson Tide of 
second half against South Carolina, Alabama in the first-ever re. Jar Navy and Georgia Tech. only season meeting between the tv. o scoring a field goal against Navy. schools. 
•;•;•;•,•;•·•;•;•;•;-;a.-;,·•;·····························-,·,-.n·.o;..,;o·•··-··,-,,,.,.
au tevenson.........:.-.....·.···-~·-···:·.·~·:·~·:.:.~.:.:.:.~.:·~·~·~·~·~·~·:·l":·=·:..-..:.:.:.:-:.~·~-:.:-~


P I S 


The Sting of Defeat 
=:==========================:=================::::::::=:======:============:========:======:::::=:What's Ahead? 
ATLANTA -A crowd of over 50,000 at Grant Field last Saturday discovered that Jimmy Carter's win this past Tuesday was only the beginning of a week of Georgian victories. 
Georgia Tech had not lost a homecoming game since 1959. In those same seventeen years, the Yellow Jackets had not beaten Notre Dame. One of those records had to be broken. and unfortunately for the Irish it was the latter. 
There was an air of defeat and disappointment in the post-game Irish locker room after Dan Devine and his crew had been out-played, out-coached and generally stung by the Yellow Jackets of Georgia Tech. 
"It was a well executed counter play that fooled our defense," said the quiet and collected head coach of an equally dismayed team. "They played a near perfect game." 
"Near perfect" may be an accurate discription of Tech's performance last weekend. The "Ramblin' Wreck," who only a week before fell to Duke 31-7. giving up live fumbles and an equal number of interceptions. This week was a different story. as the Yellow Jackets did not bless the Irish with a single turnover the entire battle. 
Georgia Tech more than doubled the total offensive yardage that the Fighting Irish could squeeze out. Tech rambled for 368 total yards without even attempting a forward pass. 
The thought of someone defeating Notre Dame without throwing a pass the entire game was beyond my wildest imagination before last Saturday. Any weakness in the "stalwart" Irish defense would be in pass coverage, not rushing. 
What has happened to the Notre Dame defense that established a school record for most quarters without giving up a touchdown? That same Irish defense has allowed three scores in both of their last two ballgames against supposed "meager" opponents. 
Alabama is beginning to roll. having won six of their last seven outings. with their most recent victory coming against LSU this past weekend 28-17. The Notre Dame defense will have to improve their performance if they expect to turn back the "Tide." 
Likewise. the Irish offense must contribute their fair share. The offensive line which out-weighed the Tech linemen by more than 30 pounds per man opened holes which allowed Irish backs to break through the day's longest gains of only nine and te~ yards. 
On the other hand. the Yellow Jacket offensive line blew holes wide open in allowing their backs to scamper for 31 and 45 yard pick-ups. The Irish line definitely seemed to miss the services of starting guard Mike Carney and first string tackle Harry Woebkenberg. 
The entire responsibility does not rest on the offense's performance. but on the play selection. Notre Dame seemed content to sit on a four point lead, a strategy that was also noticeal11e in the South Carolina and Navy clases. 
The second half play selection was conservative to say the least. Notre Dame's longest drive of the afternoon, a 67-yard scoring march in the second quarter, was effective due to the Irish passing game. Once the aerial attack was successful. the rushing game was a little easier. 
However, the Irish attempted less than half as many passes in the second half as in the first. Trying to preserve their lead. an event which has prevailed in their last three games, finally caught up with Notre Dame. 
It's easy to look back and determine what one thinks the turning point of the game was. If a certain play works, a coach comes up smelling like a rose. But, if a call backfires, he looks bad and everyone else thinks they could have made a better decision. 
The loss is only history now. The coahces and players may have been out-done Saturday, but they have other games for which to prepare. As the shock began t{) fade and the reality of defeat set in, so too prevailed the Irish determinism and optimistic onlook to "Bear" Bryant and the next big battle with the South. 




