

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XI, No. 47 Friday, November 12, 1976 
Rally.ing behind the Irish 
residents prepare for 'Barna weekend. (Photo by !Debbie
l<rilich.) ' 
Students meet Trustees, examine campus issues 
by Thomas O'Neil students would be overwhelmingly Body Vice-President Mike Casey, 
Editor-in-Chief in favor of a cable system that not was the substitution of the term 
only offered entertainment value, "visitng hours" for "parietal 
A proposal for cable television on but much more importantly, educa­hours.'' • ;:ampus and a plea for more tional value." the report read. "The word 'parietals' seems to adequate and desirable campus The proposal cited the possibility suggest sexuality." Gassman social space were among the stu­of receiving lectures and educa­noted. "Referring to parietals as dent concerns put before the tional material from this and other 'visiting hours' might work to Student Affairs Committee of the campuses as an educational advan­disassociate any parietals offense Notre Dame Board of Trustees tage of the cable system. from a sexual offense," he said. yesterday. Regarding the purported lack of "The importance of this cannot 
Dr. Thomas Carney, chairman of social space advantageous to be overstressed," Casey added. the committee, responded to the "promoting social interaction," "Parietals has almost become a suggestions by saying he would put Hall President's Council chairman dirty word." the issues before the entire Board J.P. Russell expressed concern. Other members of student gov­of Trustees for consideration. The RusseiJ spoke of the need to have ernment in attendance y,-ere: Bob committee, he asserted, was not a campus "parties with a purpose," Bode, judicial coordinator; Bridget policy-making group, and therefore and ones which specifically are not O'Donnell, Ombudsman director; could not implement any programs dependent on alcohol for their Tom Soma, special projects com­
in these areas. livelihood. missioner; Jerry Klingenberger, 
The committee meeting began Russell's argument referred to lobby coordinator; Ken Ricci. stu­with departmental progress reports points made in last week's Alcohol dent union director; and Rob Tully, from staff members of Notre Awareness Day and to the problem senior class president. Each of the Dame's office of Student Affairs, of disproportionate social space student representatives gave a which were followed by reports and between residence halls. departmental progress report to proposals made by members of ''This problem has been a the committee. 
MC Academic Council seeking members 
by Cathy Cowhey bod~·. and if approved. will be 
Staff Reporter submitted to Dr. William Hickev, 
College vice-president. 
The St. Mary's Student Assem­Among the topic~ to be di-;cu\sed 
bly has created a new. Academic at the Council mcetin~~ arc com­
Council consisting of representa­prehensive exams. the writing 
tives from each of the 19 college proficiency requirement. and stu­
depar.tments. The Council was dent academic rights. 
formed in an effort to get broader Each department will choo~e one 
student representation in academic representative and one alternate. 
affairs. The representative will be elected 
The purpose of the Council is "to b~· the other maJors in the depart­
represent and act upon the views of ment. To qualit\ as a representa­
the St. Mary's student body in tive, a student must be an offi~.:iallv 
relation to the academic affairs of declared maJor within ,a depari­
the college." according to the mcnt. Students who wish to serve 
Student Assembly proposal. on the Council should ma:te their 
Cathy Coyne, student vice­intentions known to their depart­
president of A,cademic Affairs, is ment immediately. Student repre­
presently the only official student sentatives must be available to 
representative for academics. students in their maJOr. able to 
Coyne cited the lack of organized perceive student need,, know­
communication between and within ledgeable of their own depart­
some departments and the absence ment's policy and will present new 
of an official student committee to ideas to the council. 
discuss the academic policy as The Academit· Council's first 
maJor factors behind the Academic meeting will be Tuesday, Nov. JO. 
Council's formation. Gail Mandell. assistant to the 
The council is ~esigned to be a vice-president. will be the adminis­
forum for voicing ideas and com­tration's voice in the council. 
plaints about academics. It will Students previously have pre­
submit policy through the Student sented complaints and idea!> on 
Assembly and direct student prob­academics to Mandell or Covne in 
lems to the proper authority. meetings in Mandell's offic~. This 
according to Coyne. That policy will service will continue on Thursdav 
later be proposed to the student nights from 7 to 9 p.m. · 
Majors fill many courses throughout Arts & Letters 
by Mary Ann Layden Business Ethics. two sections of 
Staff Reporter Existentialism, the Historv of 
Modern Philosophy. Sex and Mar­
Many courses for the spring riage and Food and Population 
semester have been filled during Energy. 
the advance registration of majors Two sections of Criminology. a 
and seniors this week. popular sociologv course. were also 
Seniors began waiting in line as filled yesterday. 
early as 5 a.m. yesterday for 
registration, which began at 8 a.m. 
Art courses such as Ceramics I. 
Photography I and Visual Com­
munications were closed by 8:30 
a.m. The 90 places in Basic Accounting. one of the few busi­ness courses opened for Arts and Letters students. were closed by seniors already in line when pre­registration opened. 
Several major departments said 
that they had enough courses 
available to fulfill the requirements 
for seniors. One senior comment­
ed, "I didn't have any trouble 
registering because I wasn't trying 
to get any courses that were in 
demand. I saw about SO people 
outside LaFortune in line by sev­
en." 
The American Studies Depart­
ment held a lottery for Professor 
Elizabeth Christman's Book Pub­
lishing course. Professor Madonna 
Koblenschlag's "American Best 
Sellers" class and "Advanced Re­
porting" were the only courses still 
open in the department by yester­
day afternoon. 
Closed English courses include Fiction Writing 302, Ernest San­deen's Poetry Writing. both sec­tions of James Robinson's Non­fiction Prose Writing, William Krier's Novel. and Ernest San­deen's poetry courses. Among the 400-level classes closed were 
. ·a"'l.-.....~-. 

Southern Women Writers, Human 
'. ·:.:. _;~~ 
·~~-'

Student Government. perennial issue," Gassman com­Among the Trustees in atten­Relationships, Theater of the· Spir­A written proposal for the instal-· mented. "An improved social dance were: Dr. Thomas Carney, it, Tragedy. Theology and Litera­
lation of cable television was atmosphere could be achieved Dr. Philip Faccenda, John ture, 19th Century British Novel II 
submitted to the committee by through additional social space." Schneider, Jane Pfeiffer and Paul and one section of Faulkner. 
Mike Gassman, student body pres­Another proposal, suggested Hellnuth. John D. Rockefeller IV Fulfilling philosophy and theol­WHAT DO YOU MEAN 
ident. "Our feelings are that1 jointly by Gassman and Student was not in attendance. [)gy requirements, seniors closed GAELIC 'HISTORY IS CLOSEDI! 
r 
2 the observer Friday, November 12, 1976 


----News Briefs Popul_ar 75-year-o/d prostitute 
f 
~ 
' l-::-::-=:::::::::==::::=============Nationat 1 convicted for fifth time in Miami 
r •  •  
Oil price-rise '  
WASHINGTON AP ·The United States is consulting urgently with  
other indu~triali1.ed countries on ways to head off an anticipated oil  
pril'e innca~e nex 1 month. a State Department spokesman said  
YL'~IL'I'da\.  
Sonll' oil.rartd wuntries favor an increase of 10 per cent or more but  
~p~tl.c~man Robert Funscth said any price hike would hurt exporting  
l·ountrie'> a., v.ell as imports.  
I  
Teacher shot in classroom  
I.  DETROIT AP -Ofliriab say they will try to tighten security in  
i  Detroit public· schools following the shooting death of a teacher in  
frout uf her ll'rror-... tricken classroom of first-graders.  
AI Lcwi.,, 4h. 11 as arraigned Thursday on a first-degree murder  
charge in the slaying Wednesday of his estranged wife. Bctt~·  
McCa... tcr. 45. Lc11i., was ordered held without bond in Wa~·nc  
County Jail.  
Ohio schools out of f!lOney  
COLUMBUS Ohio AP-Almost 10. 000 Ohio school children arc on  
two-month un.,chcduled vacations because their districts have run  
out of monL'I. The tigurc may rise to 70,000 by year's end.  
Stay of execution  
SALT I.AKE CITY Utah AP-Convicted killer Garv Mark Gilmore.  
given a second stay of executions from the firing squad he wants to  
face. ~a~·., thv new reprieve puts him through the stress of cruel and  
·Jnu:.ual puni'>hmcnt.  
Dentist sentenced  
PROSSER* Wash. AP-A dentist convicted of negligent homicide in  
the traffil -d:aths of two persons has been ordered by a judge to pa~·  
penance hy giving free dental care to the elderly.  
Carter 'tug-of-war' begins  
Atlanta, Ga. AP -President-elect Jimmy Carter says he likes  
L'ompetition among his staff members. and thcrl' arc signs he may  
lw getting nwre than he wished for. The tug-of-war between the  
old Cartn hands and the button-down newcomers is picking up now  
that the high stakes game of building an administration has begun.  
~on Campus Toda~'-·  
4: 
J() p .Ill. ­



: '. ­
12 1S p.m. 
3 HI p.m ­

I . 
S1'ipm­
7 p.m. ­
7 10 & 10 p.m 
B p.m ­
R W p.m 
~.tturday ­
11 d Ill. ­
12 'j() p Ill. 
8pm.­
7:30p.m. 
sunday ­

travelogue series, "australia," john engel, calvin audigorium, sponsored by biology department 
computer course, "eortran," room 11S, computer/­math center building. 
lecture, "social responsibility of business: a british perspective" by prof. jonathan s. boswell, city university business school, london, in room 120 of hayes-healy center, sponsored by the economics . department. 
mass and dinner at bulla shed. 
lewis io's, italian restaurant, lewis hall basement, $1.50 
film, "it happened one night," carroll hall, sponsored by social commission, tickets-$1. 
notre dame basketball i~tersquad scrimmage in the ace. new keenan revue, repeat performance, washington hall. 
film, "notre dame in review," washington hall, sponsored by the alumni association. 
football, alabama at notre dame. 
concert, "chicago" at the ace. 
meeting, society for creative anachronism in the rathskellar, topic: pillaging for fun and profit. 
7:30p.m.-lecture, "an amateur among the pros" by george plimpton in washington hall, sponsored by the student union. 
7:30 &. film, "red river" in the engineering auditorium, 10 p.m.-sponsored by cinema '77, tickets: $1. 
8 p.m. -recital, junior voice recital with cathy heisl~r in the 
• , ·little theater at smc, sponsored by the \music · · department.· · · , · 

MIAMI (AP)-She was one of the 
most popular women in pre-Castro 
Havana. Now, at age 75, she 
suffers from stomach pains and 
cataracts, but police say that hasn't 
stopped her from being 01 e of the 
oldest women involved in the 
world's oldest profession. 

Angelina H-Letturcheres de 
Gova. better known as Natasha, 

wa~ back home Thursday after 
pleading guilty to charges of main­
taining a house of ill fame and 
procuring for prostitution. It was 
her fifth conviction here on similar 
charges: she has been arrested at 
least seven times. 
Born March I. 1901. in Granada, 

Spain, Natasha came to Miami in 
1959 as a refugee from Cuba. In 
Florida, she has alwavs maintained 
"homes" on quicst ·streets or in 
fashionable neighborhoods such as 
coral Gables. police said. She has a 
shingle in front of her place of 
business which reads "Professor of 
Aesthetics." 

Many of her Florida clients had 
also vi~itcd the two lavish homes 
she operated in Havana during its 
hey-day as the gambling and 
entertainment showplace of the 
Caribbean. 
Wednesday. with wisps of gray 
hair pecking from beneath a neat 
white turban and a gold pendant 
hanging from her neck, Natasha 
walked slowly toward Judge Gerald 
Klein's bench to answer the latest 


Grads describe Air Force career 

A first-hand look at engineering 
techniques in the development of 
new Air 1:-'orce aircraft will be the 
subject of a presentation by four 
Notre Dame graduates this after­
noon. 

Open to all students, the presen­
tation is sponsored by the Air Force 
ROTC. detachment at Notre Dame 
and is scheduled for 3:30 p.m. in 
the Litrarv Auditorium. 
Through the use of films and a 
~~'>cussion, the four will concen­
trat · of the F-15 and F-16, two 
air<'t.tft recently brought into the 
Air Force invento,ry. A question­
and-answer period will follow. 

The four officers include Greg McKillop. Newt Underwood, Jack· Hyzak, and Jim McGraw. All are assigned to engineering positions at Wright Paterson AFB, Ohio, the site of the Aeronautical Systems Division of the U.S. Air Force. 

r*The Observerl 
Night Editor: Marti Hogan Ass't. Night Editor: Katie Kerwin and Chris Smith Layout Staff: Cindy McKie! Editorial Layout: Jerry Hickey Features Layout: Tim 0'­Reiley and Don Salemi Sports Layout: Tony Page, Ray O'Brien, Chris Johnson, Bob "O.D." Hull, Dennis Davis, Morey BJinder, "Bear," former sports editor F.H. Typists: Sue Shellenbarger, Kathy Egbert, Morey Blinder, Val Zurblis Early Morning Typist: Terri Harlan Day Editor: Jean Powley Copy Reader: Barb Breiten­stein and Tom Byrne Ad Layout: Pat Russell 
Lhotographer: Debbie Krilic'J 
1he Ob'>t-rV!'r i<> puhl~<>ht>d Monday through l·nddy dnd WPt-kh durmg the summt>r SP'>SIOn, E'Xtt-pt dunng thP Pxam and vacation p<>nod'> The ObsPrver IS pual1shed by studPnts of the Unlvt>rsity of Notr(• DamP and St Mary's ColJpge Subscnptions may bt> purchased for $20 pt-r ypar ($10 pt-r st-rnPStPr) from Thi.' Obser­ver, Box Q. Notre DamP. lnd1ana 46556 St-wnd class postagt-paid, Notrt-Dame, Indiana 46156 

charges. bering the old days, said Natasha 
Police said she and a 17-year-old never ran a bawdy house. girl were arrested last month after "You would go.in, have a drink, Natasha offered the girl to a take your time. After you had your policeman for $20. drink. you would select a girl and 
After her guilty plea. Klein go inside. You would take a asked if she had any money. shower, and in 20 minutes or a half "No." she replied, but then hour. she discreetly knocks on the 
asked, "How much?" doOt," he said. 
Natasha tinallv admitted she had A policeman who was involved in $35. The judge said he'd accept $25 her first Miami arrest in 1962 said on a $250 tine but Natasha would her house was so busy then, "that 
have to pay the remainder within we had trouble making an appoint­90 davs. ' ment for our own man so we could One former customer, remem-raid the place." 
New 1040 income tax form appears for 1976 taxes 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The Inter­
nal Revenue Service, about two 
weeks behind schedule. unveiled a 
more complex 1040 tax form yester­
day that will mean more effort by 
taxpayers to calculate how much 
they owe Uncle Sam for 1976. 

In his opening message to tax­
payers. IRS Commissioner Donald 
C. Alexander said "completing your return this year could be more difficult." 
For the first time in decades every taxpayer will have to turn to mathematical skills to compute taxable income. This is a major change from the previous system under which many taxpayers had only to list their gross incorrfc and · then refer to tables to find their taxes. 
Taxable income is income reduced by the stand.trd or item­ized deductions and personal ex­emptions. 
Alexander said that preparation ')f the forms was delayed because of late passage of the Tax Reform Act of 1976 and shcu.d be in the hands of most taxpa) ers by mid­Jan11arv. 
This-is about two weeks later than tax form packages had tradi­tionally been received by the nation·~ taxpayers. 
The ba~ic I040 form will have a number of changes from the 1975 form. he'>ides the need to calculate taxable income. These include a credit for child care expenses and a change in the reporting of an, exclusion for what t.ad been known as sick pay and which will now.bc 
called disability income. 
One more change involved the method in computing the credit allowed for personal exemptions. Last year it ha(i been a straight $30 per individual. but this year that amount is raised to $35 per exemption or 2 percent of taxable 
•income up to a maxim•tm of $180. 
lnt'l students describe cultures of the world 
The International Student Organization will sponsor a series of lect'f.lres on several countries to promote understanding of other cultures and to bring American and foreign students together. 
The talks, most of which will be held in the International Student Lounge in the basement of LaFor­tune. will begin with a lecture on Mexico, on Nov. 18 at 7 p.m. Mexican students and Notre Dame students who studied in Mexico during theil sopomore year will present the talk. 
The lectures ar~ designed to bring out thl! cultures of different countries, give American students a chance to participate in the club and bridge the gap between foreign and American students. 
All interested students from Notre Dame and St. Mary's are invited. More information may be obtained at the International Stu­dent office at 8973. 



SUNDAY MASSES 
(Main Church) 
5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C. S.C. 
9:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. Edward O'Connor, C. S.C. 
10 :45 a.m. Sunday Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C. S.C. 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C. S.C. 
Vesperswill beat7:15 p.m. in Lady Chapel. 
The celebrant will be Rev. Edward A 
Malloy, C.S.C. 




luddill 

129 North Michigan 234~1431 
Downtown South Bend1' Across from the Big Hole NOV. 12 and 13 First Drink 1/2 Price THE OLD TIME BLACK STRING BAND Martin Bogan & the Armstrongs "WEDNESDAY IS LADIES NIGHT ALL LADIES DRINK Pt.l PRICE" 
-,~ ........... ......·.~._.....-. . 
.-.-.................................. 
:---TIMM PARTY-STORE : 
;_OPEN: MON -SAT 9 am -11 p,ni! : SUNDAY 12 noon-11 pm •
• 

:COLD BEER, PACKAGE LIOUOR;; ! WINE.. GOUitMET FOODS : : 3114 S. 11 ST. NILES, MICIDG~~ 
ThP Ob~erver i~ a member of the As~ociated Prt."ss All reproduction 

•:. 1 B~CK ~~•-• ~F IND.-MICH~ STATE LINE ON U.S. 3): 
nght'> drP resPrved ' · · ' ' 




······························-·-··· 
Friday, November 12, 1976 
the observer 
3 


Author George Plimpton will be on campus this weekend to attend the Alabama game and to lecture Sunday night at 7:30 
p.m. in Washington Hall. Shown above in the film, "Paper lion," Plimpton is famed for the amateur's approach to sports and entertainment. 
Business Dept. expands to handle more students 
b_y Eileen Lynch Staff Reporter 

In the face of increasing interest and enrollment in business, the St. Mary's Department of Business and Economics has undergone expansion of both curriculum and faculty to meet the demand. 
'Tve been in the business department for four years with three different chairmen and three different advisors.'' said Maureen Tomshack. president of the Busi­ness Club. "The <.:epartment is finally settling down. establishing procedures. and recruiting better professors, professors that are likely to stav at St. Mary's for a period of time. The one person mainly responsible for the great improvements is Bill Schmuhl, a truly dedicated and intelligent man. 
Professor William Schmuhl is the recently appointed department chairman. He commented that his objective is to develop a "quality program" and hopes to accomplish this through the faculty, students and the courses offered. 
He ~ealed that the department would like to complement the full-time professors with part-time faculty, but are having trouble attracting the type of teachers they want. 
"We neeo teachers who are excellent and interested in the. students. Many are not interested in a small women's college or prefer research~'' explained Schmuhl. 
Schmuhl indicated that he en­
courages the present faculty to 

a~ze 

l1)iniljammer 
CREATIVE HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES 
REJ.A.XJNG 1\.'fMOSPH ERE 

FREE HAm ANALYSIS RK RETAIL C~NTER 
1637 LWW 
So. Bend 
232-6622 

~~ 
.Appt. only.
7\ ·--~~-·--• 
adopt rigorous standards. expect­ing everyone to provide courses that' challenge the students to do their best. He noted that he would like to see courses added in the · areas of finance, management and economics, and would urge busi­ness majors to take courses in other disciplines. 
Gary Cain, assistant professor of business and economics. noted that the department is "progressing steadily." 
"The girls are grasping the new concepts that we are teaching. I feel the department and student interest is expanding. We are able to prepare the girls for a better future in business." 
Student reaction to the changes has been generally favorable. 
"They are offering all the cour­ses necessary for a concentration in accounting that arc also. necessary for the CPA exam ... remarked one student. junior Shelagh Crook. "The courses are · more of a challenge and will prepare us for our future. There's more work per course this year than last. Profes­sor Schmuhl seems to be very enthusiastic and takes an interest in all the students." · 


Apply now for int,rnships 
by Chris Datzman Club holds a meeting for juniors to 
Staff Reporter advise them on how to find these 
jobs." 
If you're thinking about a sum-Most departments on campus mer internship in media, govern-have no program to find summer ment. or business. the time to start employment for students. but may looking is now. Many of these handle individual requests by com­establishments begin taking appli-panies. Some advisors are interes­cations around Christmas and some ted in knowing which students are already begin hiring at that time. looking for these jobs. 
While the Placement Bureau Dr. Jeremiah Freeman, Chair-offers some assistance to students man of the Department of Chemis­through announcements they re-try. stated that most students do ceive, most students secure these not usc the department to look for jobs through their own initiative. jobs. 
Pat Cole. a junior English major. "I often don't know what our interned last summer at KCOI-TV students want to do or if they're in Santa Maria. California. Cole even looking for a job," he added. described his process of job hunt-I'd like to know sometimes so that ing as very routine. if a company comes through in the 
"I got a catalogue of media spring I could initiate discussion or internships from the American at least give them a name if they asked for one. 
Students who are considering this type of summer employment should begin by checking clipboard in the Placement Bureau for an­nouncements of openings. Other sources in the Bureau are director­ies put out by the government listing federal jobs with all bran­ches of government from the Internal Revenue Service (IRSl to NASA. Salaries and qualification~ for each vary from job to job. 
The Placement Bureau will ~oon be receiving directories for student distribution from the federal gov­ernment for opportunities in Wa~h­ington. Some of these jobs rcljuirc a Professional and Admini~trativc Career Examination (PACE). App­lications for these exam~ arc al~o available at the Bureau. 
Studies Office and just ..started---------------------------.... 
going through the lists looking for one near my home town.'' he explained. "I wrote them a letter telling of my interest and at Christmas I filled out an applica­tion. Thcv wrote back and said they were interested." 
Cole acted as a volunteer intern going on assignments with the news director and doing a "little bit of everything." . 
Gregg Bangs, a senior American Studies major, who had a public relations internship. also went through the standard procedure of sending applications to various companies. 
·'I received a letter back from the Public Relations Society of America asking for an interview in Chica­go." Bangs said. '"I went to the interview there with three different companies and only one sounded interested at all. I then had an interview with another man from the same company. sent a portfolio or articles I'd written, and was then hired,·· he said. Bangs worked as an audio-visual intern with the Burson-Marstellar Pubfic Relations Co .. the second largest public relations firm in the world. His salary was $600 a month. 
Bangs' interview like most other business interviews are not conduc­ted until the spring. Prof. Robert Williamson of the Accounting De-
SMC RELIGIOUS STUDIES COURSES FOR SPRING 1977 
101 THE BIBlE II MWF & 2MWF Weis~ 131 CHRISTIANITY AND THE MORAL LIFE 9MWF & 2MWF Kratt-se 161 CATHOLIC FAITH AND LIFE 2TT4 Murph~ 241 SACRAMENTS AND THE CHRISTIAN LIFE IOTTI2 Reichert 251 THE CHRISTIAN TRADITION ITT3 & 2TT4 Hcane\ 271 EXPERIENCES IN CHRISTIANITY JTT3 Malits . 299 RELIGION AND VALUES: THE URBAN PLUNGE (sec Nb Theo 376 Church and Sot·ial Action) 350 PSYCHOLOGY AND RELIGION IOMWF Jancoski 360 CHRISTIAN MARRIAGE AND FAMilY Rosemary Haughton and others; special schedule. intervjew required 381 FAITH AND PHILOSOPHICAL INQUIRY 12 & 1 MWF Hcancv 441 THOMAS. MERTON 9TTI Malits 431 CHRISTIAN SCRIPTURES 9MWF Weiss. for majors 
For SMC students. 100-200 level courses fulfill core requirement; 300-400 arc electives. For NO students,· 100-200 RLST courses count toward Thco requirement as first courses: 300-400 qualify as Thco second courses. 
Registration Thurs .. NovemberII through Thurs., Novem­ber 18; 8:30a.m. -4 p.m. in RLST alcove. ground floor. North Wing. Madclcva. ND students must register In the SMC REligious Studies Dept. for RLST courses. Order for registration will strictly observed: Seniors beginning Thursday; Juniors beginning Friday; Sophomores begin­ning Mondat; Freshmen beginning Tuesday. 
partment explained this is due to'---;:=====================:::;:-~
the late hiring of graduating sen­iors. His advice to juniors looking 
C-OLLEGE GRADUATES
for summer employment with a business firm. is to go to various companies over spring vacation 
DON'T TAKE CHANCES WITH and apply. As far as any program for summer employment William­
YOUR PARALEGAL CAREER-
son said the students usually do 
NOT ALL LAWYER'S ASSISTANT PROGRAMS
their own job-hunting. "We have no formal program," 
ARE THE SAME
Williamson said. "but of course if we hear anything we send it 
Roosevelt University's Lawyer's Assistant rep­
straight to the Accounting Club. 
resents the mark of quality and acceptance in 
They in the spring the Accounting 
today's legal community. If you are a college graduate and qualify, why not give 
Y!>U~If an ~dvan~ge by attending Roosevelt Univer­srty s lawyers Assrstant Program which is fully ac­credited by the American Bar Auoclatlon. 
Since the Fall of 1974, 365 graduates representing over 120 colleges and universities have chosen Roose­velt's lawyer's Assistant Program for their career training. 
Specialize in: Corporations -Estates, Trusts and Wills -Litigation -Real Estate and Mortgages -or be­come a Generalist*. 
Over 160 law firms, banks, corporations and govern­mental agencies throughout the United States have hired Roosevelt graduates. 
SESSIONS 0 Spring Day/February 14-May 6, 1977 0 Summer Day/June 13-September 2, 1977 0 Spring Evening/March 15--August 26, 1977 
* evenin1 prog111m only. 

For more inforrrn~tion c:ont.ct your plecement office or Lawyer's Alliltant Progrem 111 ROOIBYelt lktinrsity. 
r---------SEND TODAY --------­
CP119

Lawyer's Assistant PI'Oifllm ROOSEVELT UNIVERSin (312) 341-3882 ~~ 430 South Michigan Avenue Chicago, Illinois 60605 
Pleese send me lnforrnetlon on Roosevelt's Realonel Proerem. 0 Sprinl Dey Proerem 0 Summer Dey Pro1111m 0 Sprln1 Even1n1 Pro1111m Nama_____________________________________ 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE O'LAUGHLIN AUD. 
Add~AL---------------------------------­
Tuesday, November 16, 1976 8:00PM CHy·----------------S~~~L-------~~~L------­.'''' 
ROOMVelt Unlvenlty admit. students· on the bnls of Ind._
Students $3.00 Non-Students $4.00 YldLNII merit and wftflout I"8Pnn to ...ce, colOr, Crwed, Of .._ 
' , . .. • • ' .. r : l 

. . . .. ·' 
~-----~~~~---~~~~--~-----_J 


w
• 

the observer Friday, November 12, 1976 


United Way ends 1976 drive almost $200,000 short of goal 
by Anne Bachle donations. As a result, totals from pletely by the public relations Staff Reporter these firms were significantly departments of these firms, and higher. but took more time away does not depend in any way on 
The United Way Campaign tor from the campaign effort as a donations collected during the cam­1976 ofticially ended with a dinner whole. paign." held Wednesday, Nov. 10, at the The dinner closing the campaign Contributions totalling $473 were St. Mary's College dining hall. was made possible through the raised by St. Mary's students for 
Invitations to the dinner were donations of seven South Bend the United Way Campaign during extended to all of the 2400 volun­firms: AM General, Bendix, Dodge an auction held Nov. 4 during teer~ in St. Joseph County who MFG., Gilbert's Men's Wear, Sib­dinner, stated Patty Schirmer, worked on the campaign, according ley Foundry, Uniroyal. and Wheel­development commissioner at St. to Sam Appleby, United Way abrator-Frve. Mary's. communiL·atlons director. Approx­"People. always ask. 'How come "The auction went really well. imately 240 people were present at you u~c money donated for crippled although the total was lower than _,._ft: the dinner. kids to give yourself a dinner?,' " last vear," she said. The main /~::~ # -~ 
Guc~t speaker at the dinner was Appleby said. "Well. we're not reason for this was that, due to 
[_..~·<';~---r

Tom Pagna, a former assistant taking money away from any circumstances, the auction was football coach at Notre Dame, who crippled kids. The dinner for the held only one night instead of the United Way campaign ended with a dinner at SMC. (Photo by 11ow worh for Ara Parseghian volunteer workers is funded com-usual two. Debbie Krilich.) Associate~. In his speech, Pagna drew a parallel between a football team and the United Way group, ~.1vi•;" th~:t each team member's 

Britons rapped for handling of Rhodesia 
co;Jtrihutlllll i~ important and nec­e~sary for the success of the whole DAR ES SALAAM. Tanzania interim government,'' Nyerere de­Black leaders have demanded that attack black nationalist guerrilla team. (AP)-President Julius Nyerere has clared in the interview Wednesday. the shiftover to black majority rule bases there and accused South 
Although this event signalled the called on Britain to assume more Rhodesian Prime Minister Ian be achieved within 12 months or Africa and Rhodesia of mounting official end of the campaign, which direct respOnsibility for Rhodesia's Smith has insisted that both the less. while Smith contends that the other"acts of provocation" against began Sept. 2H. contributions are changeover to black majority rule army and the police be controlled transition would take at least 23 Zambia, Angola and Botswana. still coming in, Appleby stated. bv naming Britons to serve as by white Rhodesians during the months. 
Nyerere asserted that "Tanzan­

This vear's total of $2,125.177 n;inistcrs of defense and foreign interim period. Nyerere said the transition gov­ia's independence is linked withpledged. fell $199,435 short of its affairs in the interim period. Nyerere. speaking on the porch ernment worked out in Geneva the independence of the other
goal. Appleby attributed this main­Nverere said in an interview with of his modest beachfront home should be a "government of nation­
front-line states...Tanzanian troops

ly to lack of time, saying, "Six the· As~ociated Press that this outside Dares Salaam, said: "The al unity. a government of consen­weeks was just too short." He would settle one of the toughest problem of Britain's role hinges on sus. of Africans and whites who are will be used if the independence of 
Zambia.

explained that in years past the problems facing the Geneva confer­her acceptance during the transi­acceptable to the majority of Mozambique, etc. is 
threatened. That is what the front­campaign had lasted seven or eight ence on Rhodesia -control of the tional government period of her people." 

line presidents' communique saidweeks, but it was hoped that the Rhodesian army. responsibilities." Nyerere pledged that Tanzania and we mean what we sav. ·· 

same results could be accomp­The Tanzanian president said If Britain fails to assume its full and other black nations bordering lished this year in a little less time. Britain, as the legal colonial power burden, he said, "the British must on South Africa and Rhodesia will The statement, issued iast week "We should have started earlier in Rhodesia, also ~hould provide bear the responsibility for the respond with troops and material after a meeting of black African with better planning." he said. the two ministers until the transi­continuation of the war in Rhodes­support if further military action is presidents in Dar es Salaam, 
This vear much time was spent tion period is completed. ia. undertaken against any of them by contended that armed struggle on anaiyzing contributions within But internal affairs, control of The Rhodesia talks in Geneva the white-ruled regimes. remains the onlv sure way of various firms and organizing comp­the police, "would, of course. be have been deadlocked virtually He mentioned Rhodesia's recent abolishing white ·minority ruie in rehensive efforts to encourage the responsibility of the local. the since thev opened last month. incursions into Mozambique to Rhodesia. 


GREAT BOOKS ... •
-


GREAT GIFT IDEAS! 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
A POTRAIT OF ITS HISTORY AND CAMPUS Hardback $25.00 BY THOMAS J. SCHLERETH Paperback $7.95 
ONWARD TO VICTORY THE NOTRE DAME COOKBOOK 
A CHRONICLE OF THE ALUMNI BEFORE AND AFTER THE GAME 
By James E. Armstrong $8.95 Edited by Flo Yearedel $6.95 
SHAKE DOWN. THE THUNDER! WE REMEMBER ROCKNE 
THE BIOGRAPHY OF FRANK LEAHY 
By McCallum & Costuer $7.95
By Wells Twombly $8.95 

WAKE UP THE ECHOES THE GLORY OF NOTRE DAME 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 22 GREAT STORIES OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL By Ken Rappoport $8.95 Edited by Fred Katz $1.95 
THE FIGHTING IRISH A COACH'S WORLD KNUTE ROCKNE' 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL THROUGH THE YEARS By Digger Alelps $1.95 YOUNG ATHLETE By Gildea $12.95 By Guernsey Nan Ripey, Jr. $2.95 

ROCKNE 

NOTRE DAME IDOL, COACHING GENIUS, CELEBR.ITY--A LEGEND REVISITED 
By Brondfield $8.95 



Notre Dame Bookstore Second Floor 
."' ..... ~. ..~ ­

To review curriculum 
by Jack C. Silhavy 

Staff Reporter A committee on Curricular Development has been established by Isabel Charles, dean of the College of Arts and Letters. to study the curriculum of the college. aiming "to improve the quality of humanities instruction and scholar­ship." 
The "ultimate task" of the committee, according to Charles, is to draft a final proposal for submis­sion to the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH). a federal grant program. A development grant from the NEH would assist any curricular changes accepted by the College Council. 
Charles stated that changes would be made if the study showed they were needed regardless of a grant, but an NEH grant would greatly supplement the amount and extent of needed changes. 
In order to best strengthen and redirect, if necessary. the humani­ities <:!ducation at Notre Dame, the 

Bishops' adopts 'moral values' 
WASHINGTON (APl -The National Council of Catholic Bis­hops adopted a "pastoral letter on moral values" Thursdav that reaf­firms the church's stand on sexual conduct, divorce. abortion and numerous other issues. 
It was adopted 172-25 after a strong effort to delay action by some bishops who objected that as a teaching document it lacks under­standing and compassion. is pedantic. is not sufficiently "pas­toral" and would do more harm than good. This effort was turned back 162-65. 
The bishops spent several hours amending the document. which had been two years in preparation , wrestling particularly with the wording of sections on birth control and homosexuality. 
On birth contrd, he bishops kept the original phrasing that "pastoral sensitivity requires that we be understanding toward those who find it hard to accept this teaching. but it docs not permit us to change or suppress it." 
The sectior• on homosexuality was phrased to express compassion but to say firmly that "homosexual activity ... is morally wrong." 
"Euthanasia or killing of the innocent is wrong but it docs not follov. that there is an obligation to prolong the life of a d_ving person by extraordinary means." the let­tL:r said. ­
On divorce the letter says. "some would even urge the church to acknowledge such a dissolution and allow parties to enter new. more promising unions. We reject this view." 
The letter also savs. "Sexual intercourse is a moraf and human good only within marriage; outside marriage it is wrong." 
********** 
iC "SILENT M 0 VIE" i( 
tf(  BOILER HOUSE FLIX -iC 100 Center Ml~h-waka ~  
i'  special  'iC  
iC  MIDNITE SPECIAL  iC  
i'  12 a.m. frl. nov.12  'iC  
iC  MEL BROOKS  ..  
iC  In  ~  
iC  iC  

iC iC 


~********~lOOCENTER i(
iC 
~ MIDNITEMADNESS~ ~ ~
friday nite 

~., all shops open 9_, p.,m__, .-1,2___•.• -~..
.:P.. -~ 
Costello said each member was 
Fimcak£ Hnus£
chosen because of past merit on other committees. "Sometime about March we hope to get a draft of our proposal to 
OUR SPECIALTY 
submit to the standing Committee on Curricular Examination," a 
OVEN-BAKED 
sub-committee of the College 
APPLE PANCAKES
Council. said Costello. He explained that this would 
"You'll be back for more"
only be a first draft, with individual sections being subject to approval 
US 31 (Dixieway North) in RosP.Iand 

or revision by the College Council. 
<Across from Holiday Inn) 

When the program is confirmed the committee would draft the final proposal to go to NEH as applica-
-...--..-.-.......,.-r--,.......,.,......----......,...-.-.................---.,.........,.----....-...-.-==-> 
committee will consider the results of the Dean's Committee on Colleg­iate Development, a committee formed by Dean Frederick Crosson in 1972. 
The committee will consider in particular six items: 
-Concern with effective teaching. 
-Examination of the most effec­tive and productive use of college requirements and electives. 
-Study of the feasibility of the utilization of the 1-2-1 program. which would allow a student to enter his major sophomore year. finish junior year, and take inquiry­oriented courses senior year. This program is rarely used or promrot ed. according to ·charles. force 
-Integration of value-oriented is­sues into the curriculum using either new or existing courses. 
-Studying means of heightening international consciousness in Arts and Letters students. Charles de­scribed this to be one of the "gravest problems" with ND graduates. 
-Exploration of the use of inter­disciplinary courses within the College of Arts and Letters in order to achieve these goals. 
The committee is chaired by Donald Costello, professor of Eng­lish. and is composed of two students and seven faculty mem­bers from different disciplines within the College. 

tion for a monetary grant. Committee members are cur­
rently studying documents and reports as well as interviewing students. faculty and administrat­ors. "Past as well as present situations must be examined for some historical perspective," Cos­tello stated. ·'This will give an insight into the future." 
"We must examine what we have and examine possible propos­als for improvement,"' Costello explained. "We will work on improving the weaknesses, while 
at the same time .preserving the I strengths." Costello said there "detinitcly 
are" many strengths that would be 
kept that would provide a base 
upon which changes would be 2nd floor, Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore
built. .....__________________________. 
Thomas J. Schlereth will autograph copies of 
The University of Notre Dame: A Portrait of Its History and Campus 
Before the Alabama game 
Saturday , Nov. 13, at 10:00 A.M. 








feed gasto 
yourcar, 
coinstothe tollbooths,and atsums to 
O'Hare parkingpeople? 
. Alot of you fly west for vacation break. But many are in the str;.mge habit of taking the toll road to O'Hare. Or roller skating, or something. We don't know. 
We're surprised that more beleaguered students don't take the easy way out: your handy local airport, right here in South Bend. Flying from South Bend isn't just quicker and easier. It's no more expensive. 
For example, one-way Coach air fare from South Bend to Los Angeles is only $4.00 more than the same ticket from Chicago. Now, unless you're stuffing
.-.. 

a Volkswag~n or know a way to make tolls, gas and parking disappear, it's 
probably gomg to cost you at least four bucks to drive to O'Hare. Itll also cost 
you time and hassle. 
~o take th.e.easy way out of South Bend: United Airlines. For Friendship Semce to 59 a ties from South Bend, call your Travel Agent. Or call United at 232-4811. 
Partners in Travel with Western International Hotels. 
~ 

Flythe •endlyskies ofUnited. 
. :·.· ·._ ·.vv., ··.r.~· ....,,. ·.·.· ·. ,_, 1111 ·.v·.·-··... ,,,unrreDAIRLines····· ~t•. 
~~~~Bf· ~..·;,:.'l11HNNlNUNUINUI.!#NH¥1h»J~M&iii.iiUi'iiUiilii~-·'"JiA\'ANl>t1.MMJ.ribW·~· 
the observer Friday, November 12, 1976 

Utah prisoner prefers death to life sentence 
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) -Con­demned murderer Gary Mark Gil­more·~ wi~h to be executed on ~chedule by a firing squad Monday has been blocked by a reprieve issued by Gov. Calvin Rampton to enable Utah's Board of pardons to consider the ca~e. 
Gilmore·~ attorney, Dennis Bo­at., ~aid tha action by the retiring governor wa~ the "meddling of a lame duck governor, and I'm completely out-raged." 
The board'., next scheduled mee­ting npcn'> Wednesday. but chair­man George Latimer said the board·., t·alcndar might not have room for the Gilmore matter before Thur'idal. 
Hampton cannot commute sen­lcn<T'-or i'>'>lll' pardon~. but can i'>-..Ul' rcpril'IL''-until the board can n>ll'>idcr -,ueh matlL·rs. 
l.alilll<'r ~aid that if the board decided-.. the L'Xl'l'Ulion should pro­LTL d. it would he up to the trial JUdgL', -hh di~lricl Court Judge l{obcrt Bullock. to reschedule it. 
(jiJmore. ~peaking through Boat., "lid he wa~ di~gu~tl'd by the g<li'L'rnor·.., "nuclly insensitive" 
ortkr and  a'>kL·d  Rampton  to  rc­ 
.,<·ind it.  
l'hL·  ~tatcment.  released  after  

(jilmon· and Bna; met mt>rc for than an hour at the prison said 
Rampton apparently was under pressure from groups "motivated by publicity and their own egotisti­cal concerns rather than their concerns for my own welfare.'' 
He said he does not want clemency from the board and "I do not wish to have other people's purposes to be forced on me. ''Apparently the people of Utah are willing to put a man through the rigors of a JUry trial, demand his death, but when the execution becomes an actual fact and the condemned man is willing to accept it with grace and dignity, then the people of Utah arc afraid and do not have the courage of their convictions," he said. 
"To prolong this execution when I do not ask for it to be prolonged puts me through the stress of cruel, unusual and inhuman punishment. This delay also prolongs the agony of waiting for my family and friend-.;," he said. 
The judge would be required to set a date no less than 30 days nor more than 60 from the time of the new sentencing. officials said. 
Asst. Atty. Gen. Robert Hansen, who appealed successfully Wed­nesday to the Utah Supreme Court to rescind the stay of execution it had granted on Mondav. said it was Rampton's prerogative to delay the execution until the hoard meets. 
Attempted assassination disturbs Lebanon truce 
BEIRUT, Lebanon [API -Gunmen attempted to kill a prominent Christian politician in Beirut's Moslem sector yesterday, grazing his hip and marring a Syrian-im­posed truce ifl the civil war. 
Raymond Edde said he was retuning to his downtown villa from lunch at a seaside hotel when a car with four rnen inside pulled up from behind and a submachine gun opened. 
"I was just getting out of the car when they opened fire. I hit the dirt and hunched under the car;" he said. "As you can see. a bullet ripped through my sweater and another grazed my left hip." 
Edde's bodyguard was hit twice in the head and taken to the American University Hospital for emergency treatment, Edde said. 
Edde is leader of the National Bloc party and former presidential candidate. The 63-vear-old Maron­ite Christian has remained in Moslem tcrriotry throughout the war. 
Edde indirectly accused the Syr­ian occupation forces of being behind the attempt on his life. but said he had no proof. 
"I am operating by deduction," he told newsmen . "The Palestin­ians have nothing against me and the rightist Christian Phalangists don't come into this area." 
Edde often has severly criticized Syria's intervention in Lebanon's 
civil war. In Tel Aviv, well-informed Israeli 
sources  aid  Israeli  artillery  is  
bombarding  Palestinian  guerrilla  
targetsrin  ·  

Now is the best time 
WHOPPER, FRY AND COKE, AND 


to receive swine flu shots 
WE'LL RECEIVE SOc. 
ATLANTA [AP] · About ten per­cent of the Americans targeted for swine tlu inoculation have already received shots and the success or failure of the nationwide program will probably be determined in the next few weeks, a federal health official said yesterday. 
The immunization program, which started in early October. is intended to inoculate all American over the age of 18. 
"The next several weeks are the critical ones." said Don Berreth, information officer for the federal Center for Disease Control. the 
u.s. Public Health Service agency administering the program. 
The swine flu vaccine is "pretty. Ft. Dix. N.J.. last winter, killing ~GOOD ONLY SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1976 M4MI 

~e::i~~~:ro:~~:~~~!~·~n~ .~~·~s ~~~ ~~n~·e ~~~~ses have been reported KtHGJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIII KING5 
bably easier to get the innocula-._....~..._...........~..._.......,....~..._...............~..._.........._.~..._~,..••~..._...............~..._......, 
tions now than it has been or than it will be as the program is winding down in December," he said. 
He noted that tlu season is approaching and the shots gener­
ally become effective until two or
.,----------------,
:·I Rip Off the I :I VILLAGE INN 




I I ..~~·~~·;·~~UPON c:;E~" I
IWe will accept any type of coupon you canI 
1 find and give you $1.00 offon any I I 14" or 16"_ Thin Crust Pizza or any I I 12" Deep Pan Pizza I 
I OFFER GOOD AT BOTH I I VILLAGE INN'S I I FROM NOV 1 to NOV 13 
I 1401 N, Hickory (across from Town and I1 · t 11 North at Darden Rd. I Op~11, 11 am o 12 am , . . · ~ ~=· .-11 am to 1 am Sat. · limit 1 per customer 
He said his office would make no effort to move up the board's meeting so the execution could take place Monday. 
Boaz said Gilmore was "under­standably upset" by the governor's action. Gilmore asked prison authorities for permission to hold a news conference Thursday night, but was turned down by the Board of Corrections director on grounds it was against policy. 
Gilmore, who says he does not want to spend a lifetime in prison. appealed to the Utah Supreme Court personally Wednesday to let him die next Monday as originally sentenLed. The court agreed and vacated its earlier stay of execu­tion. 

Art Professor Robert Leader 
Dr. Robert A. Leader. nr'"""~'". of Art, was presented the Air Forl ROTC Outstanding Service Aw in a ceremony held at the Uni sity Club last ·night. The award given by Colonel Norman E. ler. professor of Aerospace Stu ics. on behalf of MaJor Genera James A. Brickel. Commandant Air Force ROTC. 
According to a letter from Gen Brickel, Leader has "made : distinct contribution to our pro gram and helped to instill a sen of pride in our Air Force people.' 
"Largely through your efforts,' the General wrote, "the opportun ities available to young men an< women through Air Force ROTC 

Dr. ~obert leader received the Air Force ROTC Outst d'
have been kept in the forefront." 

Servrce Award. (Photo_~ Debbie Krilich) an rng 
BRING THIS COUPON, BUY A 
three weeks after they are re­vised. 

Berreth said 4,355,289 persons 
allllllllllllllllllllllllllflllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllnR were reported to have received inoculations during the week end­Notre Dame lNG


'Support

ing Nov. 6, bringing the program =: totaltol4,182,152. = Inoculation totals have increased = 
each week since the program was = begun in early October, and Ber­reth called the trend "encourag-= ing. = 
He would not estimate how many E: persons the program may reach by = its conclusion in December. = 
The$13Smillionnationalimmun = 
-

ization progran1 was begun after =: swine flu struck several soldiers at ~ 
, 
No one has been executed in the United States since Luis Jose Monge died in a Colorado gas chamber on June 2, 1967. More than 400 men and women await possible execution on Death Rows across the nation. 
Gilmore, who would be 36 on Dec. 4. was convicted of first-de­gree murder for the shooting death of a motel clerk last summer during a robbery. He is also charged with the fatal shootoing of a gas station attendant. 
"I believe the death sentence is justifiable in appropriate cases," Rampton said in a letter to Latimer. 
"However. the duty of the Board of Pardons if to review the decision of the trial Judge to determine whether or not the case in which the death penalty is imposed is appropriate for such punishment." 
Boaz had said ot Gilmore after the court's action Wednesday, "I honestly don't think he would have stayed around for any appeal. think he would have seen to it that. you know, he took care of his own execution." 
Boaz declined yesterday to be more specific on whether he thought Gilmore was contempla­ting suicide. The state prison warden. Sam Smith, said earlier this week the prison was aware of the possibility of suicide and was taking precautions. though he would not elaborate. 
Women's Track = 

Bring this Coupon Buy a Whopper, E 
1: ( I d = 
,::ry regu or) an = 
Coke (medium) D-wrn if, = 
dB K aui.y~ = 
an urger ing ~J.r = 
will donate 50c to the .._.. := 
!lliRGfR ­

Women's Track Team KING = 
®­
= 
-

................................................... 
CINEMA 77 

THE GREAT WESTERNS 
• 
A Film Festival 1 RED RIVER 
NOV14 

4 THE MAN WHO SHOT LIBERTY VALENCE 
I 

NOV 17 2THE GUNFIGHTER 
NOV15 


5 LONELY ARE THE BRAVE
3 SHANE .. ., .... NOV16 NOV18 ~ 


·•:ALL. SHOWS.-•7,:30 & 1.0;00 pm ENG. AUD. ONE DOllAR 
i 


---------------~-~ 
Supplement To: The University of Notre Dame Observer Countryman's Press Argos Reflector
FREE · Take One 
Culver Courier ~ 
I 
1 
I 
. . ·: -~ .. v ·:· :: ~ ' ·. 

-; -{-:·.~:~'t:il~};:i~mf.~:~:~f~:~{,~{-;'_i~:,::. :~ ,: ,'·_. _:-,; __ ; 
...... ··~-.-....\'..-.:~~ ....~:-..\'....'~--.. ~':''';,~-~ ..',','..~ ...·· 
• . ~ .... > :-... -~ .: •. ~ ~--~ -...~-----~: ;' .. ~.. -~ -~ ~--~· ,': :: .: :·. 
. . • • . •· •. ·. . ... , . .,;. l' :· ~ • •· ,..... ~ ' 
. ·... ·. v. ·' ........ .,; . 

PAUL W. BRYANT ALABAMA 
NOTRE DAME STADIUM SATURDAY November 13 
12:50 E.S.T. 

'Barna Wraps Up Conference Bid 
Fullback Johnny Davis bulled through the Louisiana State de­fense for touchdowns of 13 and 58 yards November 6 to lead 15th ranked Alabama to a 28-17 South· eastern Conference victory with scouts from eight bowls watching. 
Davis, stungwhen demoted to the second team earlier in the season, ran with a vengeance as the Crim­son Tide raised its record to 7· 2 and virtually wrapped up an 18th consecutive bowl appearance. 

I DAN KELLEHER (left) had a great day with one touchdown and receptions
i 


and Steve Orsini (right) rushed for 78 yards to help lead the Irish over the 
l f midshipmen of Navy last month in cold, cloudy Cleveland. ­
The Fighting Irish lineup 
1[][]

Ends: Dan Kelleher, Kris Hal-Defense: Ken Dike, Mike Cal-Quarterbacks: Rick Slager, nes, Ken MacAfee, Jim Weller, houn, Scott Zettick, Hardy Ray-Rusty Lisch. Robin Weber. Defense: Ross am. Halfbacks: AI Hunter, Dave 
CENTER UOUORS 
Browner, Wlllie Fry, Tony Zap-Waymer, Vagas Ferguson, Tom pala. Guards: Ernie Hughes, Dave Domin, Steve Schmitz. 
·We cede, to aU occaMOIU Tackles: Steve McDaniels, Tim Vinson, Elton Moore, Howard Fullbacks: Terry Eurick, Steve 100 CENTER STREET Foley, Ted Horansky. Meyer. Orsini, Wlllard Browner. MJSHAWAXA, INDIANA -465-« Linebackers: Doug Becker, Steve Hehnkrefter, BobGoUc, Le­
kea beer In stock! 
roy Leopold, Tom Eastman, John Dubenetsky, Pete Johnson, John Likovich. 
Defensive Backs: Luther Brad­
MDIIIaJ·SBIUrdaJ 9:38 1.111.-IDinllht
ley, Ted Burgmeier, Jim 
Browner, Joe Restlc, Dave Way­
Fa££ DELIVERY JOE SABBE 
mer, Tom Flynn, Jim Morse, 
PHONE 259-0261 

Ross Christensen, Mike Banks. BOB DYGUI.SKI Specialists: Dave Reeve 
~--Stiil~~ki~-f~r-;-;~;t;;nt--1 
I for this school year? I 
t h b tWh' " 
1 t en gra a · 1z t I from the fridge and I 
t V' t
t cruise ooer to Campus 1ew t 
t t 
1 Still some choice 111 bldrDIII turnlsbed IDII'blents arallable! 1 
t Rental consultant Hours: t.tendaJ·FrldaJ 9:1· a.m. · 4:10 P.m. t 
1 54585 lrtsb 11.11t 1M · I 
t Under New Management: t 
t t Rudy Buechler, Receiver t t t t 
sOmething good has happened In mld·town Mishawaka I • basketball court. e dllshwaslhers _. •• • t since you've been gone. Doc Pierce's Saloon has opened Ita doors to lavish stained glall•••everywhere. I • 2 Datns In the 2 bedroom • air concmloning t Dark woods set the mood for live entertainment 
I apts. I· 
alx nights a wuk. A lavish menu that boasts of 

I • snag carpeting • laundry facilities I 
prime steaks and shrimp steamed In beer. And we certainly can't fall ta mention our houll specialty. Thru, original portions that come In 32 ounce daaea Ia bound ta cure anything that ales yal 

I Now renting for the 1976-19'17 school year I
For lunch, tor dinner, or after the game, Doc Pierce's Ia like no physical you've ever had. Dellcloual Just ten minutes from campus. 

t Call 272-1441 for further Information I 
I I 
t campus view apartments 1 
\... , . JUST DOWNWIND FROM BALL BAND , 3 blocks eut of Notre '0... ·aa.1.~ f_. W.Uv:t .t 
' .. ' ' 
· ::::.. .1.~0 W,. Main St,_Midtowr Mishawaka 2!?!j-7737 
-----·-.~--·-~·~~~.W:(_.,~~.~~.-~-~
·'r•~~..;·,~#·,._~~~"~.. '•' 




-~-­

Defense Nosedives Against Tech 
A crowd of over 50,000 at Grant Field last Saturday 

discovered that Jimmy ,Carter's win this past Tuesday was only the 
beginning of a week of Georgian victories. 
Georgia Tech had not lost a homecoming game since 1959. In those 
same seventeen years, the Yellow Jackets had not beaten Notre Dame. 
One of those records had to be broken, and unfortunately for the Irish it 
was the latter. ' 
There was an air of defeat and disappointment in the post-game Irish 
locker room after Dan Devine and his crew· had been out-played, 
out-coached and generally stung by the Yellow Jackets of Georgia Tech. 
"It was a well executed counter play that fooled our defense," said the 
quiet and collected-head coach of an equally dismayed team. "They 
played a ncar perfect game." 
"Ncar perfect" may be an accurate discription of Tech's perlormancc 
last weekend. The ~·Ramblin' Wreck," who only a week before fell to 
Duke 31-7, giving up tivc fumbles and an equal number of interceptions. 
This week was a different story, as the Yellow J ackcts did not bless the 
Irish with a single turnover the entire battle. 
Georgia Tech more than doubled the total offensive yardage that the Fighting Irish could squeeze out. Tech rambled for 368 total yards without even attempting a forward pass. 
The thought of someone defeating Notre Dame without throwing a pass 
the entire game was beyond my wildest imagination before last Saturday. 
Any weakness in the "stalwart" Irish defense would be in pass coverage, 
not rushing. 
What has happened to the Notre Dame defense that established a 
school record for most quarters without giving up a touchdown? That 
same Irish defense has allowed three scores in both of their last two 
ballgamcs against supposed "meager" opponents. 
Alabama is beginning to roll, having won six of their last seven outings. with their most recent victory coming against LSU this past weekend 28-17. The Notre Dame defense will have to improve their performance if they expect to turn back the "Tide." 
Likewise, the Irish offense must contribute their fair share. The offensive line which out-weighed the Tech linemen by more than 30 pounds per man opened holes which allowed Irish backs to break through the day's longest gains of only nine and ten yards. 
On the other hand, the Yellow Jacket offensive line blew holes wide open in allowing their backs to scamper for 31 and 45 yard pick-ups. The Irish line definitely seemed to miss the services of starting guard Mike Carney and first string tackle Harry Wocbkcnbcrg. 
The entire responsibility does not rest on the offense's performance, but on the play selection. Notre Dame seemed content to sit on a four point lead, a strategy that was also noticeable in the South Carolina and Navy clascs. 
The second half play selection was conservative to say the least. Notre Dame's longest drive of the afternoon, a 67-yard scoring march in the second quarter, was effective due to the Irish passing game. Once the aerial attack was successful, the rushing game was a little easier. 
However, the Irish attempted less than half as many passes in the second half as in the first. Trying to preserve their lead, an event which has prevailed in their last three games, finally caught up with Notre Dame. 
It's easy to look back and determine what one thinks the turning point of the game was. If a certain play works, a coach comes up smelling like a rose. But, if a call backfires, he looks bad and everyone else thinks they could have made a better decision. 
The loss is only history now. The coahccs and players may have been out-done Saturday, but they have other games for which to prepare. As the shock began to fade and the reality of defeat set in, so too prevailed the Irish dctE~rminism and optimistic onlook to "Bear" Bryant and the next big battle with the South. 


H Notre Dame were ever to enter a season with a team made up entirely of the lame, the in­firm and the dim, t!:r:perts would study the lineup t:aretully and conclude that, auret enough, the Irish have the maktnga of yet another superior team. Just the name Notre Dame guarantees the school a place in everybody's Top 20. 
And 1f Notre Dame should have a few decent players --g1JI8ol you're immediately talking nation­al championship which is the prin­cipal language spoken around South Bend. But such chatter this year is idle. For while the infirm and the dim don't dominate the squad, several key players have a his­tory of turnill8 up lame. A na­tional title would be a miracle. The Irish are good, likely can go at least 8-3, but for Notre Dame that's bad. nlat wouldditto last year's record, which easily could have fallen to 6-5 save for dramatic comeback w1na over North Carolina ancil Air Force. 
It is that interior offensive line that bas ·the coaches in jitters, although Offensive Coordinator Merv Johnson is trying the calm approach. "We aren't u bad u we were afraid we 111lllbt be,'' he says. "It's not a thl!'ow-up-yolir­handa situation."· 


THE IFUSH DEFENSE, which had its record string of twenty-one quarters without giving up a touchdown broken by Navy, tried un­successfully to stop a potentially explosive Georgia Tech team_ 
National Title Would Be Miracle 
and 
Easy Parkfnl 

Elsewhere Notre Dame bas a and Mark McLane who, believe fine supply of talent, notably It, doesn't mind blocJdna. Says fourth-year Quarterback Rick Sla­Me Lane, "I wouldn't say there's ger (he sat out 1973 with a sboul­a cockinesa around here, Just der separation, by coincidence the confidence." But McLane mined last time the Irish won the national all of sprfll8 practice with an in­title). Ken MacAtee was an All­Jury, and Hunter miued part of America tight end last year u a it. sophomore, catchill8 26 paasea. More top-tllght backs are on hand The defense bas reason to be than second-year Coach Devine confident. Key players are Enda can say grace over. There's Rosa Browner aDd W1111e Fry (who Fullback Jerome Heavens, who also miued sprinl ball) aDd Tac­led the team in rushlnl as a fresh­kle Jeff Weston. "We have a1ood man. And there are two premier chance to be aver.,e," says Line runnill8 backs in fleet Al Hunter Coach Joe Yonto. 
WELCOME FOOTBALL FANS 1
11-------------------------­
lOCI OFF wrrB THIS AD 1 
I OVER 25 SELECTIONS OF PANCAKE I 
: & WAFFLE PLATES : 
1 ALSO PRESENTING ASELECT MENU 1 
1 OF STEAKS, SANDWICHES, DJNNER$ I DESSERTS 1 
I BREAKFAST & LUNCH I 
1 SPECIALS MON. THRU FRI. 1 
I OPEN WEEKLY 6 AM I 
I OPEN SUNDAY 7 AM I 
1 IN FRONT Of TOWN 1 I &COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER I 
: -CARRY-OUT ORDERS-: 
I 259-8036 I 
I I 
: 1HI W. lciUNLEY AY. MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 0peo 24 boun : 
WAKARUSA, INDIANA 46573 (219) 862-2714 -BUFFET LUNCHEON-Open to Puhlic Monday thru Friday 11 a.m. lo 2 p.m.
$2.65 
ltnp'Upt Oil Hllbn1 18
Wakarusa, Indiana 465~3, ,·\ .. ''• (219) 862-2714 . 



_\~ 
i'.~..
., 

···················i·.·A-:-~-=~~:::::::::::::~~::::-::=-:.:.::·.·.:.:.:.::;s:::;::: .. 
,. 

We are proud to be celebrating our First Anniversary of our Kootz Lake Branch Facility that brings to our friends and customers 
oof uII S e r v ~ c e 8 a n k i n g ooDrive-in Banking 
ooThe Highest Interest Rate on Savings Accounts Allowable by any bank 
OPEN /I l:)
nn 
H 0 U S E ~t · .[-_:=;z-~ 
.

ll~=cc i, ;;J
ALL DAY ~----~-~:---=~~;Ji 
i NOVEMBER 13th --~ 8 AM 'till 4 PM 
DOOR PRIZE 
Portable Color TV . 
prizes and gifts or the entire family 
OPEN YOUR
)-'{ ooS a f e t y D e p o s i t 8 o x e s 
-·-~oJ '77 Christmas Club
ooC h e c k i n g A c c o u A t s 
Saving Now 
-· 

oofarm Loans ooHome Loans ~Auto Loans ooPersonal Loans 
Refreshments 
ooBusiness Loans 
Entertainment 
We Tailor Tour of our facility Our Banking to 
door prize drawing
Your Needs 
at 4p.m. 
Plan to attend and get acquainted 

SATURDAY NOVEMBER 13th 


Page 8, Nov. 13, .1978 


'Bama's Bowl Bid Speculative 
The post-season football bowl scouts congratulated Alabama's team for Its 34-17 victory over Mississippi State Oct. 30. 
Scouts from the Gator, Liberty and Peach Bowls watched 'Bama come from a 14-8 first-quarter disadvantage to dominate these­cond half. Alabama Is looking for Its 18th consecutive bowl bid. 
Asked about a trick play that gave the tide a 62-yard scoring pass, Coach Bear Bryant said, "We used to use 1t all the time when (quarterback) Joe Namath was here. We didn't work on It very much." 

PAUL (BfAR) BRYANT 

The play opened the second quarter. Alabama's Jeff Rutledge handed off to Tony Nathan, who pitched 1t back to Rutledge, who then connected with Ozzte New­some for the 62-yd. strike. 
Mlulutppl State led 17-12 at the half, then Alabama opened the third quarter with an 82-yard drive capped by Johnny Davis's 27-yard 
FOOTBALL EQUIP. 
at great savingsl 
232-9SSO 


touchdown scamper. Jack O'Rear scrambled for two points. 
Five minutes later, Pete cavan rambled 25 yards on a draw play to put '8ama out in front 27-17. 
Alabama held the ball for more than 10 minutes in the third peri­od. 
In the fourth quarter, Alabama's defense tightened, with Colenzo Hubbard Intercepting two Bruce Threadgill passes to stall Missls­sippi State's comeback efforts. 
State dominated the first half and marched 82 yards after the opening kick-off, with Threadgill hitting Duncan McKinzie for a 16­yard touchdown pass. 
A few plays later, Newsome, fumbled a punt, and Ricky wm­tams got 1t back for State at the Alabama 23. Threadgill went a­round left end all alone from the 12 to enable his team to take a 14-0 lead. But Bama's best was yet to come. 
The victory put Bama at 3-2 ln the Southeastern Conference and 6-2 overall. 

Alabama ls not expectedto be the overwhelming favorite to retainthe crown that It has worn the past five years In confereoce play. Heavy graduation losses from the 1975 team that won 11 straight games, Including the Sugar Bowl championship, make 1976 a re­butding year for Coach Bryant and his staff. 
The losses from 1975's 11-1 team Include eight from the start­ing defense that led the nation In scoring defense, allowing only six points per game. Most prominent 
HAVE A COMPLETE STOCK 
OF OTHER 
loss will be consensus All-Amer­Ica end Leroy Cook. Other de­fenders lost Include end DlckTur­ptn and the entire Unebacker and secondary corps and top subat both Unebacker and safety--Uneback­ers Woodrow Lowe, Conley Duncan and Greg Montgomery (all named to at least one All-SEC team) and defensive backs Wayne Rhodes, Alan Pizzitola, Tyrone King, Ray Bolden and Mark Prudhomme 
CHARLES HANNAH 

(Rhodes, Pizzitola and King all 1975 graduate. Richard Todd, the
named to at least one All-SEC All-SEC quarterback and Sugar
team). Bowl Most Valuable Player, and his top backup man, Robert Fraley, The offense also sufferedgreatly have graduated. At halfback, two­at the hands of graduation. Most year starters W1llle Shelby and prominent losses are In the back­Mike Stock and top subs James field, where the top two quarter­Taylor and Duffy Boles are gone. backs and top four halfbacks from Another spot where Alabama lost 
PLAYER PERSONNEL 
Starters Returning: 22 Lettermen Returning: 33 Lettermen Lost: 24 

OFFENSE Starters Returning: 11 Lettermen Returning: 22 f'NDS: Ouie New"une, Thad Flanagan, Bill 
lknderson TACK l.ES: K. J. l.a1enby, David Hannah, Tim Hur'l GUARDS: David Cicrasimchuk, Hob Cryder, 
l.oui, Green. David Sadler. David Mcintyre CFNTERS: Terry Jones, Sid Smith QUARTERBACKS: Jl'lr Kutkdge. Ja.:k O'Rear HAl I-BACKS: Pete Cavan. Tony Nathan, John 
Cn>w FULl BACKS: Johnny Davis, Calvin Culliver, Ri.:k \Vahon, Donnie Faust SPECIAI.ISTS: Kod Nelson. !lucky Berrey 

DEFENSE Starters Returning: 11 

Lettermen Returning: 11 ENDS: Paul Harris TACK l.ES: Bob Baumhowcr. Charles Hannah NOSEGUARD: Gu' While I.INEBACKEKS: Colenzo Hubbard, Dewey 
'.1itchell. Nt•il Callaway BACKS: Mike Kramer. Andy Gothard, Mike Tucker 
Coach: 
Record at Alabama: 
W 162. L 3J. T 8 
Assistant Coaches: 
Ken Donahue, Tcnnc,sec ·51 Mal Moore, Alabama '63 l.t·wi' Campbell, Arkansas '74 Paul Crane. Alabama '66 Curley llallman, Texas A&M '69 Dude Hennessey, Kentucky '55 Bobhy Mark-, Texas A&M '."iH John Mitd1cll. Alabama '7J Bill Oli,er. Alabama '62 Ike Powell. Texas A&M '."iR Jad Rulk-dge. Alahama '6:! Shorty White. Jack.,onville ·c,7 
2323 MISHAWAICA AVE. 
Athletic Director: 
r------CALL----·
President: 
287-0212 J 
Dr. Richard Thigpen 
Conference: 

2 IILKS EAST OF IRONWOOD Stadium: 
Southeastern 
Tust:aloosa: Bryant-Denny (59,000) 
Birmingham: Legion Field (72,000) 
Turf: 
Astroturf 
Nickname: 

Crimson Tide 
FROM CHICAGO 
Colors: 
Crimson and White 
Sports Information Director: 
Charley Thornton 

Rick 

BOB BAUMHOWER 
two-deep Is tight end, where Jer­

ry Brown and George Pugh--who started almost every game over the past three yearsL:ltweenthem, have graduated. Two-year start­ers graduating from the Interior offensive Une are guard Larry Ruffin and tackle Ray Maxwell. Finally, place-kicker Danny Rid­geway, who hit 35 of 38 extra points and four of four field goals last year, has graduated. 
The graduation losses account for: 217 of Alabama's 361 points; 1,569 of Alabama's 3,320 yards rushing; 834 of Alabama's 921 yards passing; 61 of Alabama's 69 pass completions; 36 of Ala­bama's 69 pass receptions; 15 of Alabama's 19 interceptions. 
Alabama returns one All-SEC player on offense and one on de­

fens,e,  both  Unemen.  They  are  
David  Geraslmchuk,  a  6-2,  257  
pound  offensive  guard,  and  Bob  

Baumhower, a 6-5, 237 pound defensive tackle. Fullback John­ny Davis was the Tide's leading rusher last year as a sophomore, picking up 820 years on 123 car­ries for a fine 6. 7 yards per carry average. 
HOURS 
FRI. 7:30A.M. 1:00 PM 
ONE OF SOUTH lEND'S FINEST FAMILY RESTAURANTS 
WE OFFER FINE F•MILY DINING IN ELEGANT SURROUNDINGS AT FAMILY P~ICES. A LARGE VARIED MENU, A SPECIAL CHILDRENS MENU, AS WEU AS SOMETHING FOR THE WEIGHT WATCHER 
PARTY & BANQUET ROOMS AVAILABLE 


Nov. 13, 1878, Page 7 

Crimson Tide Anticipated Tearn Loses 


With 14 starters from last half of its rushing yardage and 61 Mike Kramer and Mike Tucker, bower pumps iron or runs dally year's team gone, one would think of its 69 pass completions. With each of whom saw a lot of action in an attempt to improve on his the Crimson Tide would be hard them, Alabama won 10 of II games on last year's defense, which li­11 sacks and team-leading~tack­pressed to win ita sixth conse­and whipped Penn State in the mited foes to six points a game, les. With Cook gone, 6'6" Tack­cutive SEC title. The defense lost Sugar Bowl. Without them the fewest in the nation. Lineback­le Charles Hannah and Middle all ita backs, linebackers and Tide could do even better. er Dewey Mitchell will play along­Guard Gus White expect to better ends, including All-AmericaLe­side his roommate, 220-pound the 100 tackles they combined for roy Cook. The offense lost Quar­For one thing, Alabama is al­Rich Wingo, who was red-shirted last year. terback Richard Todd, No. I draft ways well-stocked with football a year ago because he was more 
The Tide will roll with juniorspick of the New York Jets, both players, and Bear Bryant sub­lntereated in cracking heads than Ozzle Newsome, who led Alabamahalfbacks, three linemen and back­stituted generously in 1975, an­playing the position astutely. ''He with 21 catches, five of them for ups at quarterback and tight end. ticipating his losses. Aa a re­k1lls his own body,'' says Tackle touchdowns and Johnny Davis, whoThese players accounted for 127 sult, he has 33 veterans on hand, Bob Baumhower. ''Imagine how averaged 6.7 yards per carry,of the Tide's 361 points, nearly among them Backs Andy Gothard, he feels about yours." Baum-

third best in the SEC. In two seasons at fullback, he has not lost a single yard. Halfback W1llie Shelby has left, but hisUnbeaten Wolverines Surpass Records 3.9 yards a carry ranked only 13th among Tide backs, nine of whom return. Calvin Culliver,
The University of Michigan is tory --and it has come against gory Michigan does not lead is 
a starter in 1974, and Pete Ca­
maldng a shambles out of respec­teams which are giving up 21.5 passing, where Brigham Young has van will open agalnat Ole Min,table college football defenses. pta. a game when they are not moved ahead by Rice, averaging but John Crow, a son of JohnThe unbeaten Wolverines, whose playing Michigan. 293.6 yards a game to 291.3 for David and Tony Nathan won't sit
rushing average of 390 yards a The only team offensive cate-the Owls. forever. SophJeffFutledge, whose 
game has been surpassed by only brother quarterbacked Alabama in
four teams in major college his­NO Coach Presents Program 1973, will call signals, with Jack
tory, have rolled up their yardage O'Rear, a 1975 redshirt, at the
against teams which have given up Mervin Johnson, offensive co­Knights of Columbus, Nov. 12, 8 ready. Against Mlsaiuippi last
onl)' 206.6 yards in their own ordinator and line coach at No­p.m., 815 N. Michigan. year Jeffbecame the second fresh­
games. tre Dame, will present the apeak­Representing Alabama will be man in Crimson Tide history toMichigan's scoring average is ing program for the NO-Alabama Sam Bailey, a l~ormer assistant quarterback the varsity. He hit44 pta. a game --topped by only game football smoker sponsor­football coach and now the uni­one pass in two attempts and raneight teams in major college his-ed by Santa Maria Council 553, versity'a associate d1 rector. 
seven  times  for 58 yards.  The  
ftrst  frosh  quarterback?  'That  
was O'Rear in 1973.  

With 253 victories, Bryant trails only Amos Alonzo Stag (314) and Pop Warner (313) 1!11!1 the w1nning­eat college coach ever. Bryant received unaccustomed criti­cism after he ducked Oklahoma in the Orange Bowl, choosing in­stead to play Penn State. A win over the Sooners might have earn­ed Alabama the national title. "I ain't afraid ofanybody," growls the Bear. "I'll play King Kong if it's for No. 1." 
FOOTBALL FANS! 
Join us before and after the big game. 

LIVE 
ENTERTAINMENT 
COCKTAILS 
FINE FOOD 
Q0000091QQ 
RAMADA INN 
U.S. 31 No. at Cleveland Rd. 
-South Bend-272-5220 

ACOMPLETE
MEAL FOR
ABOUT$2!!!! 
...sometimes less 
TIK·se Jay~ 1"'~.1\111~ rial· lht:ck c.tn t.th· ~umt: uf tht: l"'~ka~urt: llllt 11( l'.ttin!..! u11t. It ~hutt!Jn ·r. There\ ~till ,t pl.ttl' \\ hL·rv \'llll can gd gre.lt t.l~ting flllh..l. ,t warm. fnt:n~lh <~tmuspherc •m~i hdrful ~t:n·icL· .1r l'lc.l~.mr rrices. At Bi~hurs yuu can l'I1Jll\ a cumrlete me<tl mcluJmg sala~l. t.!.n!ree. Jessen anJ be\'eragc fur <lbuur twu Jull.tr:­... sometimes le~s. Anli yuu Jon't ha\'e to tlr. Try Bishors anJ see fur ynur~elf. 
• 




,; .. I ,/, ·~ f • \., ·, ~ •
• '· +. f t ~-· 
• 

·, 
Do-lt-Yourself Stats 
Every football fan knows that the score doesn't always give a good picture of a game. A few statistics, like those that can be kept on this page can make the picture clearer, show what the individual stars contribute and help to win post-game "de­bates." Besides, it can be fun to second guess the official scorers whose statistics will appear in tomorrow's papers. But before you start, here are some pointers on being a statistician: 
1. 
Keep cumulative totals to be informed "up to the minute" and to 'simplify your figuring of team totals. Example: Jones gains 3, 6, 9, 2 yards and you write 3, 9, 18, 20 on his line. 

2. 
On plays involving penalties measured from the point of the foul, credit the rusher or pass receiver with yardage only to the point of the infraction. 

3. 
Charge gains and losses on fumbles to the player who, in your judgment, con­tributed most to the error. 

4. 
Don't score two-point conversion attempts after touchdowns as rushing or passing plays. 


RUSHING No./ Name  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 (Use cumulative yardage, circle scoring plays}  
PASSING No./ Name  (Use cumulative yardage for completions; -for incomplete; x for interceptions  
RECEIVING No./ Nama  (Use cumulative yardage, circle scoring plays}  



RUSHING No./ Name  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 (Use cumulative yardage, circle scoring plays}  17 18 19  
PASSING No./ Name  (Use cumulative yardage for completions; -for incomplete';  x for interceptions  
RECEIVING No./ Name  (Use cumulative yardage, circle scoring plays}  


' 
... 
. . .. 
. .
. . 


~ 
I 
z: I 

31: ....--=en 
--~· --·· a. 

c•::»• ~ 
t­
....... ~ 
w 
I 
(/) 

(/)w __ 
~c., 
(!)a..-~
za..•+ 
t= ~ I 1 I 
I 

uu~
X-.-:::;;
wt-

o •
zo:: 

<{W I 
.. 




Steel girders are another step in the construction of St. Mary's athletic building. (Photo by Debbie Krilich.) 
Carter awaits inauguration 
PLAINS, Ga. (AP] · Jimmy Carter came home from his post­election vacation yesterday "ready to go to work" on his transition to the presidf'ncy. 
And Patrick Caddell. his chief pJIIster, said Carter's victory mar­gin last week would have been greater had he agreed to staff urgings that he exploit public anger over President Ford's pardon of former President Richard M. Nix­on. Other polls also have found that the pardon of Nixon cost Ford votes. 
While Carter made virtually no mention of the pardon during the campaign. it was criticized several times by his running mate, Sen. Walter F. Mondale. 
Caddell said Ford's mistake dur­ing the second debate when he said Eastern Europe was not dominated by the Soviet Union did not hurt the President much in terms of lost votes. But Caddell said it was "crucial" in slowing Ford's in­creasing momentum and threw off the timing of his campaign. 
Throngs of schpol children waved flags at Carter as he left his vacation retreat on St. Simons Island off the south Georgia coast. Boarding his chartered jet airliner, Carter told reporters, "I'm tired of 
vacations,  I'm  ready  to  go  to  
work."'  
When  his  airplane  landed  at  

Albany, Ga., Carter loaded his own bags into the trunk of his car and then shook hands with a welcoming crowd of 500 or more. 
During his five-day vacation, 
AAUP chapter meets 
The Notre Dame chapter of the an election the faculty would decide American Association of University whether or not they would want the Professors has approved the initia AAUP chapter as their bargaining tion of a "card campaign" by the agent. chapter's Committee on Collective Professor Robinson noted that Bargaining. The approval came in a ' before the distribution of designa­mid-October meeting. Professor tion cards the Committee on Collec­James Robinson. President of the tive Bargaining hopes to send the Chapter, reported that the Commit­faculty material explaining more tee is currently formulating plans fully t~e process of a card cam-and preparing material for the 
campaign. collective bargaining. ~
paign and the chapter's_ ~p~o;s~r·t~io~n~~on~========:~~~~~~~~
In a "card campaign" the com­mittee wil eventually be inviting all faculty members to sign cards designating the AAUP chapter as -~~!!· 
the representative of their profes­sional and economic interest. The signed cards themselves will not actually make the chapter a nego­tiating representative of the facul­ty, but should the committee collect a sufficient number of designation cards to reveal a faculty interest in the chapter as a potential agent, the AAUP chapter could call for an, election under the guidelines of the \ National Labor Relations Board; in 
Tutors needed 
Volunteers are needed for a new~ 
Now Showing "'SIIIIlrfllfl!fHE lliVIL
tutoring center in South Bend. Any· 
student i~terest~ itr participating . 
AT 6:50 -9:20 P.~~f. BARIIABA PARKINS;iAN HolM' RENE KOLUiEHOFF • 
shot,ild contact katie Doman at , -. . -. -· 1275.­
I·--------------------......,.. 
Carter got through two-thirds of the 18-inch-high stack of papers which his staff had prepared to brief him on the transition to power. Carter now is ready to begin picking a White House staff. a Cabinet and other high federal officials and setting policy direc­tions. 
At a news briefing later. Carter's press secretary Jody Powell said the President-elect "does not be­lieve it would be productive or proper" to comment at this time 011 a proposal from several senators that Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger be retained in a Carter administration as a special diplo­matic envoy to dea with the problems of the Mideast. 
During the campaign, Carter criticized what he said was Kissin­ger's secretive. "Lone Ranger" diplomatic methods, and has said publicly that Kissinger would be gone by January. 
Powell said Carter is not yet President and cannot appoint an envoy of any sort and does not desire any sue authority. 
At a briefing in the newly installed press center in a motel nine miles from Plains, Caddell said his analysis of voting results shows a significant increase in 
voter participation in the 
over John F. Kennedy's narrow victory in 1960. 
He said this was due in part to the success of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, which enabled millions of blacks to vote, and he acknow­!edged that Carter would have lost several Southern states had it not been for the black vote. 
Caddell said that Carter put together a Southern coalition of "black voters in very large num­bers. blue collar whites and the middle class. while losing the­well-to-do." Caddell predicted the South will be a potent factor in future presidential elections. 
He said Carter improved the Democratic margin substantially in the South and Midwest as com­pared to the 1960 results but did not substantially less well than Kennedy in New England and the Northeast. 
"We would not really have been able to win the election." Caddell said. "unless we were able to hold our fair share of independant voters, and we did get 46 percent to 47 percent," 
He sid Carter lost Illinios while winning a greater percentage of votes in Chicago than Kennedy did 
because of population shifts out of the state's urban areas. 


~OCICs,
Caddell also balmed Carter's loss of California 14, a ballot initiative intended to give farm 

LIQUOR
labor union organizers greater access to private property. Carter endorsed the proposition. which 

"'oR\.0 
failed. 

_.....,______________________,_____ 
friday, November 12, 1976 the observer 7 
------~~~~~~~~----~ 
SMC receives $300 ~000 for new sports facility 
b' Paula Carroll Staff Reporter 

St. Man-'s has received a $300.000 gt.ant from the Krannert Chartiable Trust of Indianapolis for the col1ege's new sports and recre­ational facility. 
In announcing the grant. St. Mary's President John M. Duggan said. "This represents the largest non-will. non-estate gift in the history of St. Marv's. The Krannert Charitable Trust;s investment in our future reflects and reinforces our own belief in the present and future excellence of St. Mary's." 
Clvde Remmo. director of Foun­dati~ns and Government Relations H SMC. was equally optimistic about the grant. noting that this commitment puts the total amount of pledges to date at $953,573. over half of the $1.8 million total cost of the center. 
"The response is encouraging. I am ver~· optimistic about the num­b·~r of them coming through." l?cmmo stated. 
Rcmmo explained that the pre­' ious commitments have been made bv a varietv of sources. Foundations such a~ the Krannert Trust have made 10 pledges; 24 contributions from businesses. manufacturing companies and banks. primarily from Indiana; 34 commitments from partent. alumni and regents; and a $6,656 pledge from the SMC student body. Rem­mo added-that 25 other foundations are reviewing proposals for support of the building. 
Although the project had been previously researched· and discus­sed. the majority of the pledges have been obtained within the past year. ­
"Raising this amount in such a short period of time is phenom­enal." remarked Rem mo. "It is 
America's M~st Unlikely "Brilliant"
"One of the 
Lu s•t• 
COSMOPOLITAII •

Yeari Best" 
LEE MARVIN ANO ROGER MOORE 
South Bend Ave. 4708 Western 
277-3611 
Supreme 

sg&9 
GLENLIVET 
12-Year-Old 
SCOTCH 
.... sg11
$12.70 Fifth 
CALVERT 
GIN 
$3!! 
\I • 
·-·

' .} . ·. ' ''\ ~ '~ "\ ~... ' .~ ~ \ ·. ~ :'"~;· "". . . .· . . .. . 
very gratifying thant places think highly enough of us to invest in St. Mary's. We're making very good progress and growth." 
The Krannert Charitable Trust. founded in 1960 by the Herman and Ellnora Krannert: issue~ grants in the fields of education and scienti­fic and medical research. health care, and the performing and' isual arb. primarily in Indiana. 
The facility. expected to he completed by the spring ,,f 14"'-:". was designed by C. F. Murph,· and Associate~ of Chicago and i' being built bv the Hickev Compam of South Bend. . 
Marching Band 
garners award 
The Notre Dame Marching H:11HI will be ofticiallv de~i~natnl a "landmark of Arm·rica~ M u,r, .. during halftime ccrcmonic-.. ol the n;rtionall:-· telt:viscd Alabama foPt­hall game tomornm aftcrnnon. He\. Theodnrc M. Hc,hurgh. 
C.S.C.. Uniwr~it\ president. will present a platjUL' tn hand dircL'!nr Robert O'Brien not;·;5 the group·, record as the "oldest L:nivLT-..it\ band in continuou~ t-;xistt·nct' in th~· United States.·· 
Awarded hv the National Musit· Council on ht:half of the American Revolution Bicentennial Commit­tee. the plaque will later be mounted on the outside of Wash­ington Hall. the hand's home since the IH80's. Documented records trace the band's hi,tory to the spring of 1846 when a public performance was scheduled in conjunction with the spring com­mencement program. The Notre Dame Band is the onlv universitv organization in the nation to be s~l honored. 
287-5211 
MILLER 
6 Ptu·lt· 
$1.68 
BUSCH 
6 Ptu·lt· 
$1.59 HAMM'S 
12 Pal'k 
$2.88 


·~----~----------------------------­
Friday, November 12, 1976 

No Respect For Rules 
has the power to issue a directive adding lowe have already pointed 01;1t. the 
absurdity and injustice of the admmtstra­tion' s suspending of four students from 
Dillon and lqons for a pareitals violations. Still one more point should b~ remell.l­bered: Dean Roem~r blatantly .VIol~t~d hts own declared policy and dtrectlve on pareitals. 
Early in September of this year Roemer announced a new policy on parietals. All cases were to be sent to him. First offenders would "probably get some kind of work assignment." Second-time viola­tors would be ordered off-campus.Roemer explained that he was announcingthis policy because he wanted to be "fair and coTJ.sistent.'' 
He has ignored his own "consistent" policy. Our sources inform us that the Dean decided this case as a first violation. Even if he had and used evidence that the students involved had violated pareitalsbefore, the penalty according to his own policy would only have been removal from campus. 

What makes this even worse is that his policy has the force of a Universityregulation. A University rule or regulationis, in effect a law for the Universitycommunity. it is part of the nature of a law to declare the range of penalties which will be !Zive to its violators. As Provost James Burtchaell notes in his book, Philemon's Problem 'Let there be no mistake: a law is not simply a declaration of what the society deems ethical, but a proclamation of the terms on which coercion and punishment
will be applied. ' 
Yet the pareitals rule, as it appears in du Lc, the student handbook, mentions no penalties. By Burt.chaell's definition, then tt is no law. Roemer's recent policy adds the needed range ofpenaltiesand does so in the general terms characteristic of a law. Roemer has explained in the past that he 

' 
r 
r 
~. 
SfUDY OF ~ABY WITH HAND GRENADE 
or clarifying a University rule. He is supported in this by University Regulation One which states, "Any directive from the office of the Dean of Students has the force of a University regulation." So the Dean's pareitals {)Olley amounts to a directive-i.e. a regulation established by his personalfiat. 
Thus Roemer is violating a Universityrule had made up himself. Further, in getting the four students to sign waivers of all therr rights in disciplinary proceedings, including tbeir rights to appeal, he at least violates the spirit of a system designed to insure that students have rights which have to be respected. 
It is bad enough that the administration has been the effective author of all the du lac rules; at least students have some input via the Stu..~~nt life Council. It is worse that the Dean (or his superiorsthrough him) can make up almost any rule they-please any time they please. But the enttre idea of a community run according to rules is made absurd if even specialrules are ignored by the man who made them within two months of when they were made. 
Though this is a drastic. case it is common for administrators to ignoreUniversity rules, especially· those protec­ting student rights. The censorship of WSND, contrary to the students' wntten right to freedom of speech, is another recent example. Dean Roemer was involved in such a situation last rear when 
he went after some "Trojan' banners without worrying about privacy rights until after acting. If administrators have no respect for the rules they have made, whyshould the students -who have little voice in le!Zislation -have any respect for the rules~ Why, indeed, should they have anyrespect for the rulemakers 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

P.O.BoxQ 
Riot Editorial Attacked 

Dear Editor: 
As one of the students concerned 

with the events of last Saturqay 
night, I was greatly disturbed by 
the tone of Monday's editorial. It 
seems you missed what is really the 
main issue. 
I believe there are very few 

people here who are narrow­minded enough to allow what happened to permanently effect their racial attitudes. Ironically. what happened was the result of an effort by the Black Cultural Arts Center to improve relation. be­tween Notre Dame and the ,:om­munity. Unfortunately, it boome­ranged. But a noble cause it was ­a cause which was based on the old -Christian attitude that trust will be repayed by respect. I am a firm believer in the powers of trust. What I cannot tolerate. however, is 
naivete. 
It is true that there was a great error of judgement displayed by inviting the whole of South Bend to a campus party. (Granted, the ads stated the age limit of 18, but that obviously appeared to hold little weight in the eyes of the South Bend community, considering the large number of underage youths that turned out.) But the Univer­sity displays an exceptional lack of foresight in maintaining a security force that is so sorely understaffed, untrained, and illequipped to deal with such problems. 
Granted, this was not a pro­blem caused by Notr,e Dame stu dents. It is a South Bend problem. And whether you wish to call it racial or circumstantial makes no difference. The fact is that it is a South Bend problem that has reached such proportions that Notre Dame has been directly effected and will continue to be effected. It's not going to get better. And it is naive to think that this was just a freak of circurr.­stances, 
It is unfortunate that so many people had to be injured before we are forced to face the real issue at state -that our secure little community is not so secure. Who are we fooling to think that three security officers can properly patrol the entire campus on a weekend night? Now that's naive. 
I was angry that such a thing could happen. But I will be angrier still if itdoes not at least result in a positive ,·econsideration of the pur­pose and qualifications of a security force -not only for dealing with "unusual and violent situations," but simply for dealing with pro­blems that will inevitably arise as Notre Dame comes in contact with a sometimes hostile world. I have no doubt that security did all it could Saturday night. But that's just the point. There was so much more that should have done, had there been proper resources and foresight. · 
So the issue is not whether the violence of last weekend may cause racial ill-feelings. Rather, the issue is the basic right of every Notre Dame student to feel protected on campus. knowing what we now know about our protectors. And until we accept the.fact that there is a very real problem, and demand that this problem be dealt with realistically, I for one cannot feel safe until the day I graduate. 
Janet Carney 
Class of '77 [Thank God! I 
c;lad I'm Off 
Dear Editor: 
"That lifestyle -odd hours, 
rowdy behavior. loud music & 
parties with alcohol: it belongs 
off-campus." Well so do I. 
At least we feel safe in our 
neighborhood; nobody throws 
bricks through our windows. 
I moved off-campus to get away 
from precisely those things that 
Den Roemer says belong here. My 
housemates never put shaving 
cream on the telephone and I don't 
remember the last time I was 
pennied into my room. We rarely 
bve to wait in line for meals, we 
can regulate the amount of heat we 
want and the walk from my 
~•riveway to the back door is not 
nearly as far as from d-2 to Lyons. 
And by the way. I was really & truly 
disappointed that during the last 
panty raid, no one stormed over to 
ask for any of my underwear. 
So, Mr. Roemer, you can take your fine, Christian on-campus life & shove it. And keep it up: if too many people catch on, the dorms might be empty. 
[Name withheld by request) 
P.S. Yes, Mr. Roemer, it's true that we have a keg in the back porch. 


~P.O. BoxQ 
life. Campus media could help by people as -Ingmar Bergman. Bob adopting a more positive stance Dylan, Ken Kesey and Robert and increasing publicity of the Pirsig involves long. hard hours of
Social Life 
various social activities. work. The invitations have not been the work of one person, nor have
Lively ·
Notre Dame Student Union they been uninspired. Social Commission One of the simple facts which still remain, and with which I
Dear Editor: sympathize. is that few of the present artists attending arc popu­It seems to be a common larly read. Very shortly will begin apreocupation here at N.D. to 
SlF Defense 

familiarization program which willcomplain about the social life. This give all students a chance to readattitude has been reflected by The the artist's work before openingObserver in an editorial comment Dear Editor: day of the festival. Feb. 13. This"the dismal social life at Notre program will involve evening read­Dame" as well as by a rector at the 
Your editorial printed in yester­

ings of the artist's works. informalrecent alcohol conference. In 
day's Observer contains. among 

student discussions and possiblyresponse to this attitude we would 
other things. a few clean. simple 

seminars with professors. Alsolike to offert the following view­
mistakes. I feel it essential things 

available will be pamphlets con­point. 
be put to the students correctly. By 

taining bibliographic informationThe negative attitude of many 
doing this. students will respect the 

and various selections from thestudents is based on apathy rather 
Sophomore Literary Festival. and. 

artist's books. By exposing thethan the lack of opportunity to 
more important. will enjoy the 

general student bodv to the festival attend a variety of quality social 
Festival for what it will truly be this 

guests. interest wfll be spurred,functions. Let us look at the facts. 
·year: a literary banquet which will 

and appreciation of the Festival willFor the month of November, the 
satisfy the appetites of many 

be realized. We can only hope thatN.D. Social Commission alone has diff?r..:nt students. 
people will take advantage of theseor will be sponsoring the following 
!n the first place, there are not 

programs.
events and services: 
l.wo more speaker selections to be 
TA's and professors will also beNov. 5&6 · The Quickie, a Charity 

made for the up-coming Festival. 

encouraged to have our guest'sDance at IaFortune BallrGvm, and 
There are four more. Two of these 

works read in their classes. By"Jaques Brell is live and Well in 
will most likely be filled by Hor­

Festival week. the artists attending Paris" 
tense Calisher and Lara Riding 

will not be "obscure". If thev areNov. 11 -Bus Trip to the Eagles 
Jacksen. The other two positions 

still "obscure". students will-haveConcert 
are to be filled by a novelist and 

no one to blame but themselves. 
Nov. 12-"The Night the Tide Died 
playwright, both· of international 
The Festival docs have a lot toArmory Party 

renown, Edward Albee will most 

offer the University. both here onNov. 18 -Homecoming Happy 
likely be the playwright. There has 

tampus and inter-nationally. Its iHour at the Library 
been steady communication be­

reputation has been firmly esta­Nov. 19 -Homecoming Dance 
tween his agent and the SLF commit­

blished and will continue to' attract ("Around the world in 80 Days") 
tee for some time now and it is 

such people as Edward Albee. Itas well as regular activities such as 
quite evident that he wants to 

can remain a prestigious affair butthe Nazz & Darby's Place. 
come. We are now in the process 

only so long as all students view it
of raising one thousand more 

with an open eye and arc willing toThese are only events sponsored so that can his
dollars we afford 

make the Festival week. Feb.
by the Social Commission. Includ­requested stipend. 
IJ-19. a time not only of highed in the list of social activities are 
At the very most. there will be 

enjoyment. but also, one of deepnumerous oth~r events sponsored 
four poets at the Festival and they 

enrichment and learning. 
by various commissions and halls. 
all have vastly distinct. clear,

For example: Midwest Blues 
styles. The other five people

Festival -Cultural Arts ommission 
attending (which. incidently . con­
Peter O'BrienNew Keenan Revue ­
stitutes a majority) include two 
Vice-ChairmanKeenan Hall 

short storv writers. a novelist. a 
Soph. Lit. FestivalChicago & Doobie Bros. 
playwright and a literary theorist. 

Concerts -Concerts Commission 
Literary Festival decisions have involved. contrary to popular be­

Therefore, based on these nu­Abortion
lief. influences from many people. 

merous and varied events we feel 
including TA's professors. and 

that this negative attitude on the 
Reply
most important from the 25 mem­

part of many students stems from 
bers of the committee. The 

the fact that they don't feel there 
Festival is not run solely by John Dear Editor: are enough alcohol-related activi­
Santos. Since mid-July. there has 

ties. Therefore. some students been response from the Committee In his letter of November 5,tend to dismiss the campus social 
members regarding prospective Brian Clancy demonstrates hislife as "dismal" or non-existent guests. At least 5 or 6 members of considerable talent at caustic wit and see the local bars as the the Comm'ittee have written letters and the turning of a phrase.
primary provider of social enter­
to various literary figures. However, he apparently missed thetainment. 
Our prospects have certainly not point I was trying to make in myPerhaps it is time we students 
been all obscure. nor our dedica­previous letter. The examples I re-evaluated our conceptions of tion to invitations been lackadaisi­cited were illustrations of the factwhat constitutes a successful social cal. as you imply. Inviting such that there are many ways of looking 

at the abortion question, not just 
the moral view. 
Whether one agrees with these other viewpoints or not, one must recognize that the majority of the public does not see abortion as a purely moral issue. I am not making a judgement of this fact. In fact, I would be more than happy if everyone saw abortion as a purely moral question. The country would be less divided. because there would not even be an abortion issue. I did say that the anti-abor­tion groups should continue their attempts at public education. But until a consensus is reached, an amendment to the Constitution on this matter would be undemocratic. 
The comparison of abortion to the Nazi extermination of Jews. often used by right-to-life propo­nents. is not an entirely valid one. There is a question of intent; the Nazi action was based on a racist philosophy; it was an attempt to eliminate a so-called "in­ferior race." There is nothing of this sort in the abortion issue. People who are not against abor­tion generally believe as they do because they view the problem from an angle unlike that of Mr. Clancy. 
I would only ask that people attempt to look at the question from the other side -if they did, I think that this would cut down the emotional intensity of the issue, enabling both sides to attempt to gain support for their viewpoint in 
Friday, November 12, 1976 the observer 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

a rational matter. Democracy requires calfn discussion of the issues: appeals to emotional argu­ment only serves to polarize the people. 
M~tt Kennelly 
Give It A Chance 

Dear Editor: 
The Sophomore Literary Festi­val is the most prominent event in the College of Arts and Letters and should. therefore, be respected. Thursday's editorial showed no such con-sideration and just as Uttlc faith that the festival will be a success. Any activity of the University will likely be a failure if it is exp~cted to be a failure from the start. 
The University has long been interested in the pursuit of afhlctic excellence. This much carrv over to the cultural aspect of ·Notre Dame if we arc to continue to be admired as a fine institution of higher learning. One must doubt the merit of an editorial in which poets are condemned on the basis of the relative lack of fame rather than on the quality of their literary pieces. If this sentiment is allowed to persist as representative of the university's opinion, the Sopho­more Literary Festival will never be able to secure the Kurt Vonnc­gut. Jr.'s or Norman Mailer's of the world. What respectable author would want to speak at a place where visiting writers arc said to be "obscure" and the audience has no tolerance for new talent? 
The budget for the SLF was kept at an inadequate sum. The members of the committee have been forced into a vicious circle. They cannot draw prominent liter­ary figures without sufficient money and they will not have their budget increased until they attract some "worthwhile names.;. Ironi­cally. if a best-selling author did express an intercsi':" th~ committee would probably have to turn him or her down for lack of funds. 
Guests for the festival should. indeed, not be selected by a single person. That is the reason for the SLF committee consisting of about twenty-five members. If the Soph­omore Literary Festival's "pres­tige should not be Jeopardized by the individual and alienating pre­ferences of any one person·· what right does one member of The Observer staff have to threaten the reputation of the even before giving it a decent chance? 
Maureen Carney Colleen McGee Julie HUis 
Chief Disgrace 

Dear Editor, 
In light of the recent exposre, in an Observer editorial. of our exis­tance as a part of the Notre Dame community, we, The Innumerable Complacent Pot:be\lied Subhuman Disgraces, would like to make the following announcement: 
Our first public meeting will be held at 2:00 a.m. Monday on the South Quad, in front on the South Quad, in front of Dillon Hall. The prime topic for discussion will be our forthcoming application for university club status. If time permits, our second topic will be the election of a new leader. At the present time, the prime contender for the office of "Chief Disgrace" is Mr. Robert Jacques. 
Reece C. Norwood 

Jacques Name-calling 
Dear Editor: 
What runs thru the mind of a person like Robert Jacques when he launches a bitter verbal attack on our Universitv? Surelv he doesn't believe that after he has kicked us all in the teeth with hi~ blanket assaults that we will now band together with him to change the present situation. Hi~ vicious axc-wcilding serves no purpose but to tear apart. to divide, and to anger. 
No one will dcnv that the University b impcrfc.t't and that changes arc often nccessarv. But Jacques' name t·alling is no. means to an end. 
Jacques' description· of a Notre Dame student is "one who is obnoxious. immature. naive. and a socially impotent child." We take offense at this sham of a stereo­type. We have found that the overwhelming majority of Notn: Dame students are friendly, consi­derate. and proud of their school. we do not feel that we are alone in saying that we are .a part of a loyal. closely-knit community at Notre Dame. 
We have come across little of the selfish. small-mindedncss which Jacques believes is common­place at our University. This leads us to believe that "The Notre Dame Myth" is a reality and that Mt Jacques is a frustrated cynic lacking insight and perception. 
Bob Gibson Dan O'Keefe 

10 the obse.-ver Friday, November 12, 1976 
-----------'---=--=---­

letters to a lonely God 
AReport to the Trustees 
Reverend Robert Griffin 


I tbought. for the -~ake of the record, I .houiJ write a report to the Trustees, lll'L'Itng at Notre Dame this weekend. on hl' hL·alth. well-being and career of Daby )'(itll. l'oeker -.panil'i in-re"idencc, only ·gal dog on carnpu-;. extraordinary mini­IL'I ol gr;t. c· ..uttl -.ole "tall member of the rttH'r'>ih· l ltaplain. Nohodv ha'> suggcs­·d that I \\rtlc thi.., report. hut I know the nr~tL'l'~ '''mid ha\'c '>uggc'>tcd it, if they .td onlv remembered. Beside"· they arc c·aring from C\'cryonc else thi-. weekend; .ll\ '>lwuld thi-. chief treasure of the po-.tolall'. thi.., gentle and ~ilcnt minister, lone hl' unheard from'! He has lived on· ampu.., \car'> longer than any student :adL'r'> the Trustees may ask to lunch. klorc the womL'Il came as coeds. Darby 

.a.., het'l'. building hrid.~t'" of love with the 
"""'''' ol St. Man·.,. Since the year after he l'rm o'ot "a.., ;tppointed (Or-docs he He is doing well. thank you. sirs. and rcT<'<k the l'rmw..t'!). and before the lir'>t rapidly approaching his eighth birthday. 
•c'\\ Yorker L'<trloPn" were !>COtch-taped to Despite some broken teeth and a kneecap )t,· ''indm' in the library by any present fractured in a recent auto accident, O'Gill nc·nll'cr ot the campus ministry staff. still remains in a condition to chase after )'(iill \\a., mini'>IL'ring graces to the leaves as persistently and fruitlessly as he dicnatcd Chri..,tian. I don't know how he did as a pup. There is a bond between .\a'> mini..,tering gral'l''>. I only know there Darb~· and those leaves which almost <HTL' Catholic·'>" ho rl'!urncd to a reception seems to be mystical. In their presence, he 1! the 'oaLTalllL'lll'> through the charismatic grow~ deaf to the commands of earthly ·h;trm'> of thi.., 'otngular. prc...ently aging. mastns. Raised fists beating at his 1ca..,l'>. in the hitter davs of the early -haunches arc punishments to which he is 'c'\cntic·s. when there were students a... indifferent as the saints were to the arc..,..,ing a dog who wouldn't even '>ay assaults of demons. At three o'clock in the Jcllo to a prie.,t. morning. as at three in the afternoon. he Should this lame little missionarv. then. has to be dragged away from those dPnc· not he heard from in a _vcar when the shedding trees as though they were ~arbage c·ollcl'lor'> arc heard from. and the whispering secrets to him which demand ncdia arc heard from. and the coachc'> arc all his allegiance. I have often thought a tcard from; and the Trustees consider it professional understanding should be heir bounden dutv to mingle with the sought of the phenomenon by which a dog 'ampu~ Element to find out whether the sih before a tree. like a nun breathless 'omc·n feel transgrc~..,cd against because with adoration. listening for the rustle of a he men of Morrisse~· arc doing their leaf loosening its stem from a branch and auntlrv in the wa..,hcrs and dryers of Lewis falling to the earth; watching. until he can !all'! i saZ·. let's get on with.thc minority catch it. a motion on the wind as though ·cport. and let justice be done to the canine swarms of butterflies were settling down to \'itncs.,cs of the Kingdon among us. rest on the cartiY, chasing them until some 
Pron~cding in a business-like way. Item draft out of the north scatters them onto ; the health and condition of DarbJ O'Gill. the shrubs and flower beds. Nuns breath­
v1agnificent Meals n Michiana 
The Cornucopia

:y Tim O'Reiley 
On fir-.t L:lancc. even the eve of a vegetables. The ingredients tasted fresh 
•n-gourmc·t·,·an figure this place 'out. One and flavorful. though the sapadity of the illd-paintnl sign hangs over an otherwise Greek dressing proved somewhat oily and :1-n~pinwu ... brick building. The walls are listless. .orncd with large-letter quotations from These are items that you would find on ,. Tao Tc· Ching. the inscrutable religious the menu of any restaurant. The-crunch •ok from the mvo;terious Orient. The front comes when surveying the choice of 
ndow i... in th~· process of being overrun entrees. There arc the omeletks, starting hanging plant.... All these ingredients with the basic, and adding on your pick of 
1\ into I he perfect recipe for a health herb.... tomato. onion, etc. Sandwiches are mi.., rc·..,taurant. Cornucopia (20J I Lin­available in varying combinations of egg olm' a\ \\'. Mi... h.) .,alad. d1ccse and vegetables. all embraced 
:\.., ;tl"" might he expected. this estab­\\ ith line, frcsh-bakl'd bread. Finally, they .hmcnt fe-atures onlv ...even tahll's in the offer the daily entrees. written on an .1111 dimng room.. plu~ seven in the apprnpriatcly decorated blackboard. 
•\dian· room. The remaining space has We pa.,'>cd on the chili in favnr of the two ·.·11 rdn.:atc·d to the store (health foods. more .,;ubstantial tidbits of taste. Ms. "lllr-,,·). which c·arrics such goodies as O'Neill chanced upon Malfatti ($2.95), an ., h·an pa'>tl', nHlrll!ng thunder or slccpv old Italian spL·lialc. Though not particular-Itc· pea-,, imported packets of rice. and a 1_,. fond of the green sTuff. she nevertheless ril'l\ ol fmit yogurh. Sorry. they don't attacked the fried. mcathall-o,;haped por­II pipe-. or related l'ljllipmcnt. tion.., of spinach douccd with tomato sauce \lo... t important j.., to read "health food" and d1cc..,e. to the point where -.he enjoyed nic';tn 'q.:l'larian: nan· an ounce of tksh it. I sclel'tcd the rice loaf. a portion of o,.,c.., tltc· thrc·.,hnl,~ ol Cornucopia. Meat baked rice mixed with corn and mush­Tc' nll'am. nothin~..: more than heart of room-;. Fortunatclv the waitress was 
1idwk,· or the 1111ddk of a head of lettuce. prompt to retill the ~·atcr glasses. since the "' that malin. alcohol is out. too rice ''as "as drv as a baby blanket," It hough the ol\\ Ill'!' attributed that to acl'ording to Ms. O'Neill. -Unlike the ,·n-,ing ,·o..,h. -,inc'l' he prc,iously served Malfatti. the rice also lacked a surging IIL'.,I. So tiiO'>L' of \'Oil who might withGr sav01~. yielding a rather ordinary tli<llll the 1.'\l'llin.~·, meat and potatoes. entree overall. Puld rc''>Prt to anothn rL''>taurant for the The specialty drinks span milks. unfil­c•.ltrl_\' rcpa'>l. tered fruit juices. mixed fruit juices, to h•r tll<l'>L' "" bold as to experiment with teas. The latter arc probably the most L"tr dic·t. then on .1 league more! Special intriguing. especially the distinctively IL'"' gourmcttL' Maureen A. O'Neill flavored ~·ogi tea (served with honey). ·atnl herself to a small bowl of corn Cornucopia's also offers a dessertboard, ll\\ der (~ 1.00). ''Onoohhh. look at all that with such dishes as rice pudding, carob rn and other vegetables." shP squealed, brownies (carob is akin to chocolate), and 1ik ... turping up the thick. creamy natural ice creams and sundaes. They may ncoction. Indeed. this version of corn not gu-.h the tooth-rotting sweetness that mnkr can dnm n the mcmor~· of the sugar-based desserts do. but they are very ucl ~crvcd in the dining halls. delectable delights on their own. The salad... arc equally well done. though ;:~ were a trifle spare on the dressing Overall, the Cornucopia does a jim­1orc will be provided llpon request). The eland~· job for their prices and should soon t\il·cs range from the Just Plain Salad be moving to a · handi'er location in 
.\00) to the Super Salad ($2.50). that was downtown South Bend. Now all that hea(ling ;1ggr.egatc .of' cheese.. cauli.-. . remains is to break the·hamhurger habit in "cr. and 't!ic 'usual' assortinent 'of salad "a \\:a:v Arby"s dldn''t imagine. ·• · • · · 
· less with adoration would never make their earthly master trudge after them through snowdrifts, simply because they take some odd fancy to an elm tree that is still as leafy as though winter hadn't come. On a morning like today (Thursday). a psychia­tri~t. or a mystical theologian, or even a kennel master might ease the tension between the University Chaplain and his personal assistant, if one of them could explain what different drummer O'Gill marches to the beat of. to make him so disobedient when I'm not wearing rubbers. 
Item 2: Darby O'Gill and the University budget. Campus buildings arc sometimes retired; campus facilities are occasionally replaced. University teachers eventually become emeriti. At the age of nearly eight, O'Gill cannot be expected to go on forever. Someday, though a dog for all seasons, he must be replaced by a younger animal and allowed to retire to Holy Cross house with the venerable veterans of the C.S.C., or to a stud farm in the East. near my mother; either place will do, provided he feels welcome there. But before he is retired, or before he runs his little heartbeat into stillness some morning in pursuit of small game, he should be mated and allowed to reproduce himself. He would have done so before with great ch~erfulness except that there arc no other A.K.C-registered cocker spaniels in the area worthy to be his cosnort'. outside of some litters in which his sisters were sired; it would be both incc~t and nepotism to mate Darby with them. Therefore. Darby should be furnished by a 
gratdulUniversity with finances to travel in order to look for a mother for his progeny, just as the Prince of Monaco went shopping for a bride in Hollywood and Philadeophia, and eventually returned to Monte Carlo with Grace Kelly as his princess. Consider­ing that O'Gill is worth more than a million to those of us who love hirr: (he is valued at a slightly lesser fee by his critics), it would be wise for the Trustees to invest in an apostolic succession of Darbys. Harvard itself was established to train a clergy to instruct the colonists of Boston "when these present ministers be lain in the dust." Notre Dame cannot be less provi­dential than Harvard in the replacement of ministers; and since charismatic cocj(er spaniels cannot be recruited as coaches are, the mere expense of establishing a dynasty should seem as necessary as the endowments used for the funding of chairs. 
Item 3: Darlby O'Gill and tenure. At what point. if ever. does a campus minister like Darby become tenured? It is, I know, typical of personnel who are tenured to become saucy and naughty, taking pot­shots at the Provost, taunting the president for his travels. Darby O'Gill is not that kind 
·.of creature. He wouid always reverence the Provost and the President. if he ever got to meet them. which he never does. because neither he nor I like to climb the stairs in the building under the Dome, and they certainly never come to see him. As Darby approaches his eighth birthday. he is, on a human equivalent. nearly the same age as I am. For middle-aged dogs. as for middle­men, job security is one of the more necessary comforts. 
Item 4: Darby and the Apostolate of grace. Darby will. I suppose. continue to be night minister in his Clean. Well-lighted Place, for as long as there are night people at Notre Dame during his lifetime. He also 
(l'ontinucd on page II) 
ON THE TUBE 

Saturday, November 13 
NCAACollege Football (12:45, 28): The. squad from a small Catholic university in the heart of the Indiana northwoods takes 
The Entertainment Week 
By Dauid O'Keefe 
on the perrenial power. the awe-inspiring Crimson Tide of the University of Ala­bama-. Could be an upset. Macon County Line (9:00 PM, 16): Two brothers take off on a joyride through the South until they cross the Macon County Line, where they encounter all sorts of dreadful murder and violence and general hassles. Despite the fact that this flick was a box-office success (which doesn't prove much today anyways). it's still a definite wrong turn. 
Sunday, November 14 Pattolll (8:00 PM. 28): Yes. Yes. It is my distim:t pleasure to be able to announce that this biography of General George Pattion will once again air, in its entirety, on the tube. The film is just great. George 
C. Scott is great. Patton was great. The tanks are great. The battles are great. War is hell. 
Wednesday, November 17 Chinatown(9:00, 22): Jack Nicholson plays private eye J .J. Gittes in this mystery. a throwback to the days when Hollywood could make movies that were entertaining and enthusiastic without being subjected to the severe criticisms of demanding audi­ences. It is simply a sparkling film .. well-written, well-performed and well-exe­cuted. Don't miss it. 
ON THE AIR Second Annual 

--------=--·-------~­
------------------------------------------~------------------~------~--------------~. 
l 
I ~
Friday, November 12, 1976 the observer 11 
~ 
~
The Crime 

j 
~
By Dominick Salemi
The Entertainment Week 
j
The Froot 

(continued from page I0) AM & FM, Saturday, 12:1S AM): Jorge Lopez and Ted Twardzik broadcast a marathon special featuring trivia, stories and music, music, music from the premier group in the storied history of Rock. The show will be highlighted by a presentation of the Beatie's Hollywood Bowl concert of 1964. Requests will be accepted all night. 
ON THE SCREEN Boiler House 1: Silent Movie Boiler House 2: The Man Who Would be King 
··Colfax: The Gnome Mobile Scottsdale: Two-Minute Warning State: Barry Lyndon Town and Country 1: Marathon Man Town and Country 2: Carrie Forum I: The Frnnt Forum 2: Shout at the Devil 
ON TAP 
Junior Class Happy Hour at the Library. Friday afternoon from 3 til 7. Quarter beers. SO cents mixed drinks. 21 J.D. required. Senior Class Happy Hour: The senior class celebrates anything they can think of this weei<Pnd with a night full of specials at Fat Wally's on Friday from 3:30 til6:30. On the Menu: 77 cent pitchers, IS cent hot dogs, 24 cent gold beers, 23 cent red beers. 
ON CAMPUS 

Chicago Concert (Saturday, 8:00 PM, ACC): Lamm. Pankow. Cetera, Lougnane et. al. return to Notre Dame once more for what will probably be another fine perfor­mance in front of the traditionally friendly crowd. Basketball Scrimmage (Friday. 8:00 PM): Coach Digger Phelps showcases his team for the first time this year in a scrimmage open to the public with free admission. Cinema '77 Festival (Engineering Auditor­ium): This year's Festival boasts a power­ful line-up of great American Westerns. All films will be shown at 7:30 and 10:00 PM: Sunday: Red River Monday: The Gunfighter Tuesday: Shane Wednesdav: The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance . Thursday: Lonely Are the Brave The New Keenan Review: Back by popular demand. this smorgas­bord of fine and fun entertainment will again be offered ;>t 8:30 PM in Washington Hall Friday nig' .t. 


Directed by: Martin Rltt 
Starring: Woody Allen, Zero Mostel 
Martin Ritt's The Front starring Woody Allen in his first dramatic role, is an engaging and unpretentious film about the blacklisting of artists in the early Fifties. Allen, along with the rest of the fine cast. give beautiful performances in the difficult task of mixing the comic with a sense of pathos. 
Most surprising about this film is the fact that although most of the artists involved with this picture were victims of the blacklist. the film concerns itself not so much with depicting a reprehensible period of American history as in emphasiz­ing the responsibility each citizen has for the moral character of government. Unlike the tedious and self-righteous All the President's Men. Ritt's film constitutes a serious indictment of moral apathy and disregard for the rights of the individual. 
It is interesting to note that only after 
Watergate. Nixon and the investigations of 
covert CIA activities abroad has the public 
begun to show concern over the abuse of 
government power. The concern for indi­
vidual welfare on the part of the bureau­
crats was looked upon as a sentimental and 
idealistic vision of government priorities. 
Now. thanks to the work of people like 
Daniel Ellsberg and Tom Hayden. citizens 
have begun to realize the importance of 
questioning authority and taking an active 
part in politics. In a viable democracy. it is 
ultimately up to the people to check the 
injustices caused by the abuse of power. If 
we don't. if we allow others into bullying us 
into believing that the abuse of civil 
liberties is for our own good, then. Ritt 
says, vou have the situation that existed in 
this countrv in 1953. 

As Felix ·Grant. a cashier and small time 
bookie. Woodv Allen must face this moral 
dilemma of bo~ving to pressure or speaking 
his conscience. In agreeing to put his name 
on a series of scrips to help support several 
starving blacklisted writers. Felix even­
tually realizes that he is onlv deferring the 
issue. Yet because he has become such a 
~ 
phenomenal success at selling the scripts to television for a percentage he refuses to admit that he is perpetrating an injustice. On!)· after he is subpenacd to testify against the writers he fronts for. he recognizes the ;:.bsurdity of the entire situation and tells the Hou~e Subcommit· fCe that is running the investigation to off themselves. 
It is a romantic notion on Ritt's part that one person standing up to tell the truth can open anyone's eyes. But it has happened. and this film is testimony to the fact that it can. 
Much of the film b extremely funny. Felix's continual attempts to con his producer (Hershel Bernardi) and his script-reader girlfriend (~\!~aria Andn:covid into thinking he is a brilliant IHiter. "ho can create moving and literate '>LTips seemingly at will. is pure farn·. Yct half the time he nL'\er knows'' hat he is turning in and what's more appears not tn ,·arc. HL· just turns in 2 or 3 scrips a wed,, picks up his checks, and leaves. When a'kcd in bewildered ama/L'mcnt b1 his prodliL'L"rs how hL' can write so knm1 il'dgcahl . .-,1buut the human L·omtition week after week, Felix just nod.., his h,·atl anti s;l\s, "Well. in writing about humans I think it i' hL''' to deal with PL'oplc. Thc1 ma~c the best '>llhjcch. don't you think'!" 
Zen> Mo.,tl'l is als1> ll'r\ funn1. Ill' gill'S 
a 1\<liHkrfulh· '>hamhling ,.,llllankL-rnus 
pcrfurmann· as Hc,·k\ Hn111 n. ;t ,·omic 
telc\ ision al'lnr 1\ ho hdriL'IHI" Fl·lix and is 
e1 cntualh blal·klisted. 
Mostel. hmH'I L'l'. made the blackli'>t in 
real life. A~ a blacklisted arti~t nne L·an 
understand hi., inahilit~· to lind major roil's 
in the fiftie.., hut why has he made so few 
film.., since then'? For whatcl'cr t'l'ason. it's 
a crime. Watching his virtuo...o tragi-comic 
performance in this lilm causes one to 
,,·omkr how much truh· great talent has 
been squandered or ignored. merely 
because the artists chose to ignore estah· 
lishcd social conventions. 
AReport to the Board ofTrustees 
(continued from page I0) used to be an itinerant minister of the daylight hours, moving like a circuit-riding preacher from the North Dining Hall to the South Dining Hall, from his digs in Keenan to the Huddle; and sometimes, from Farley chapel to Sacred Heart Church in search of 
his master. A couple of years ago. his travels were curtailed when he began going over to St. Mary's. After the collapse of the merger, it seemed best to observe the proprieties of separate campuses; bsides. St. Mary's has its own campus ministry and its own canine minister in the shape of a sheep dog named Earl. But from nine o'clock in the morning to five o'clock the following morning. Darby is available for hugs and pats and whispered confer­ences, though you must mostly come to the North Quad to get them. His heart is as open to St. Mary's students as it is to Domet·s, tought I think he would feel 
injured by St. Mary's if he ever heard about Earl. He has no oftice. except the one he shares with me. His facilities are chiefly the post or the pole he is at that moment chained to, depending on the sunlight in the morning, the shade in the afternoon. and the direction of the blowing leaves in autumn. Of course we often stroll across the campus together; then I get a chance to talk to his friends, when he joins them for a picnic under the trees, or when he solicits them for ice cream cones they have only half-finished eating. He has no cause. no program. no dogmatic points of view. no project except his career of loving and being loved. Even there, he seems to think it his right to accept affection rather than offer it. But if he does offer his tummy to be scratched or his ears to be stroked. he is saying implicitly: "Because I like and trust you, I am furnishing you with a comfort like the warmth of a small puppy, 
though both of us know I am a grown-up dog. and a rather sophisticated one at that." He docs not kiss or lick hands as French poodles in their silliness may do. If he is in the mood. he will do you the favor of receiving your full attention; otherwise. he can seem conceited. and has been called arrogant. I don't think the proper word is arrogant; I think it is spoiled. If he hadn't been so busy all his life, being petted. I don't think he would seem spoiled at all. 
Item 5: Darby and his ministry for the future. His only immediate plans are to survive and get Medicare.'During the past summer. he was verv sick with ear infection, receiving at· one point seven different kinds of medication a day; we thought it might be necessary to send him to Lourdes. Like the rest of us. Darby is perishable, and there are those who say he is slowing down. There are others who say, "No. he is not slo't'ing down. The truth is, he never started lip." Both comments are unkind and untrue. The real truth is. Darby knows who he is. and where he is going. He's not going to be neurotic for anybody. 
And that. dear Trustees. i~ m~· report on Darb~· O'Gill. On a campus full of people who arc restless. hurried. hara'>">Cd. and bclcagured. he is an oasis of peace. If students were like him, l·haplains would not be ncessary: neither would books be ncl·essarv. or (ibraries. or labs. or class­rooms o~ the great University itself. 
Thank God. the students arc not like Darby. Thank God. vou wouldn't want them. to be. because in all their restless­ness and hurrv. and in their harassed and beleagured states. thcv are bright and beautiful, and as wise a., ~age">. 
Darby never said he didn't love you. gentlemen. The students never said they 1idn't love you, either. 

Attention Seniortrippers,
1 

the Los Angeles 
Weather Report: High -68, Low -60. 
Only If days to go! 
I' • • " :> f ? ~ ·'· ,. • ~ ; • .· ~ r • ~ • ' '! t ' . , , * , .t. ~t f 4i , ~ . · ~ ~ < ·
t • 4 fl I 1-• 
• f • 'f ., 'i ••• I., f ' f ' , • ,. I , I , I , • ( , ,t • ' ~
I 
• 

'-----------------------------~------------------­


12 the observer Friday, November 12, 1976
r Site of Horse Heaven Canal 
~ ~ 
• ~ Beautiful Oregon 
~ 
EUGENE, Ore. 
~ 
From a plane high above the 
~ 
Columbia River east of the Cascade ~ountain~. you can look north to~ ·he vast Columbia Basin Project, a 
I 
1alf-million acres of farmland irri­I ~atcd by the Bureau of Rcdama­
' ~ t 
ion. l'hi~ i~ the rural America of <llklon·. Farmhou~e., and barns dot 
I 
p.1tdmork pattern of fields, form­
I 
ng a pro'>pcrou., rural community
r 
d1i, h. until the middle of this 
I 
··ntun. rcpre~cntcd the basis of 
f 
,,~.iri,·al and economic life in this 
t 
<llllllr\. 
~ 
I !11· \icw 'to the ~outh is a stark ~ 
"' ! r:l'-ol. There arc no farmhouses, 
t 
"-" nnnnnrnitie.... in fact there is r :nit-..,ign of life at all. You see onlyt Ill~<" robot ..,prillklcr arms that 
t 
·,ll,lirnwu... ty '>\\ccp in tremendous 
I 
:n ,." cirTk.., ntending into the 
I 
Hll ,/\Ill.
I ·1 !JI'-o area to the '-oouth i~ the \lid Columbia Basin. a once-arid 
I 
' ',..,leland that svmbolizes the 
t 
l!!hil'rll tran.,form:ttion of Ameri­,lfl a!!ril'ulturc. 
Th~1nh to radical changes in c·1kral farm polin and the recent 1dvent of giant agribusiness cor­H•ratiom,_ thi., one-time desert is ,,..,t on ih \\ av to becoming one of Ia· ridtl".'-ol -and mo.,t profitable ­grinrltural breadbasket~ of Amcr­
L'a. 
Since the late 190().,, corporate armcr'>, "ith help from the bank­ng ami insurance establishment~. ";'e been pumping billions of ~alton~ of water out of the Colum­Jia l{iver to irrigate half-milc­liamcter circle., of land on both ,ides of the river. 
In recent \Tars more than 
200.000 acres of privately financed, rriatcd land has been brought into 1roduction in the Basin. The busi­IC~~mcn farmers who read dollar .ign~ in the green fields arc Jredicting and two-and-a-half to hrce million acres will soon be kvdoped. 
Potatoes and ,·crtical integration 
Before the rise of the corporate armer. only a few pockeh of the la!>in were farmed. Most of it was , sparsel~·-populated refuge for a 
arictv of exotic military projects, nclutiing a 50.000-anc bombing .111ge. a chemical and biological ,,·apons storage depot and pluton­
1m production fa,·ilities. Todav the militarv is still around. 
•Ill tht· ·!llllVCr'> aaH( shakers are the 11rporall' farmns. Tlwv arc tough. ·lien vnung and \\ell-educated, nd most important, well-financed. 
Indianapolis vies for federal funds for mass transit 
WASHINGTON IAPr-lndiana­oli'> is one nf de,·cn cities still nder consideration for one of tree grants of up to $75 million to 
·nrl';truct an automated mass tran­.it .,,·stem. Sen. Birch Bayh ll!lnunccd vcstcrdav. Final sck<·tinn of ihc three cities 
hich will receive matching grants ·om the Urban Mass Transporta­on Admini... tration ( UMTA) for l-c;llll'd "people mover" shuttle 1·stcm!> will probably be made by IL' end of the vear. Bavh said. 
The lndiana{;oli!. proposal invol­, • ., 1he use of 20-50 small electric .1r., operation lb hours daily c:\\l'l'll the citv"s downtown areas nd the lndiat;a linivcrsitv Medi­:11 Ccntrr. The projected fare 
OLtld be ll'!l CCIII!>. 
The ll MT A. whiL·h will fund 80 L'rLTnt of each grant. will choose tc three finalists after· visiting ach site and reviewing impact tudies for each proposal. 
Bavh said the Senate Tran~porta­on Appropriations Subcommittee, hil'h he chairs. provided $3 1illion in its fiscal I<)77 appropria­ons bill for initial planning and 'vcJtwmet:~t ?f t~e proje~t~-T,hat,tmcy·wif·b~_.<J~~atliible..as. soon.{l&, 
~c/~~~S .~}~~:> .• :~:....s;!:;.~~~,..~; .. t:==::::::.;··::;:·J;;;::...a!::;.~~e;;.·,;:,~~··S:,.::.-l:i:-~:tp:_..:.N:.i·.:~:::~=":.:rth:.::D::P..ll::·
='"':.:J:.:.~:::.:::.:.!...=::::.;;;a 
Representing verttcally tntegrat­
ed conglomerate corporations, they 
have taken advantage of cheap land 
and water costs and high food 
prices to raise agricultural produc­
tivity and profit to new levels. They 
claim the Basin will someday be as 
productive as California's Imperial 
Valley -another former desert, 
which government irrigation aid 
turned into a cornucopia of produce 
and profit. 
So great is the potential here that 
corporations arc paying develop­
ment costs of $1.000 to $1.300 an 
acre to grow potatoes, alfalfa, corn 
and wheat on land that is only 
marginally arable. 
The kcv to the cultivation of this 
desert io., ·a two-pronged approach 
im·olving a highly mechanized 
S,\'>IL'm of irrigation and a federal 
farm polic~· that encourages verti­
rallv integrated agribusiness. 
The Columbia water is pumped from the river or from canals extending from the river to huge "whee!... of fortune"-consisting of long '>prinkler arms that swing in giant rirde'> on electrically driven rubbn \\heels. These irrigation arm~ ,.o,-cr half-mile-diameter cir­cles and can place the equivalent of 60 ind1cs of rain on land that normal!:-· would receive only a fraction of that amount. 
The surL·ess of the svstcm has led to plans for a ne~ 40-mile Horse Heaven Canal extending north from the Columbia to bring waiL'r to another 200,000 to 300,000 acre~ of corporate-owned farmland in Washington. 
Traditional llood irrigation is impossible in the Basin because the sandy de!.ert soil drains water very 
quirk!~·. 
The Basin svstem, known as "center-pivot ir-rigation," is also U'>ed to apply fertilizers and herbi­cides directly to the crops. The 
Archaeologist to describe trek 
Lawrence T. Geratv. Andrews University. will present an illus­trated lecture entitled "After Five Seasons at Hcshbnn: archaeology and our Christian past" Monday. Nov. IS at St. Mary's College. The lecture, sponsored by the Religious Studies Department, is scheduled forM p.m. in Carroll Hall. Made­leva Memorial Building. Geraty wao; director of the Heshbon Expe­dition \\ hid1 was sponsored by AndrC\\S Univcrsitv and the Amer­ican Schools of Ori.ental Research. 
The lecture is open to the public without charge. 


The White House Inn 

more sophisticated developers now control their whole operation with computers that monitor and direct the .entire farming process from seeding to harvest. 
Many of the corporations farm­ing the Basin grow, process and market their produce. This vertical integration, taking advantage of the availability of capital, econo­mies of scale and price regulation, has been a principal factor in the successful exploitation of the mar­ginal land. · 
Fourteen new factories now pro·· cess the crops grown in ·the basin. Some experts expect as much as $75-$90 million worth of new processing plants will be built here in the next ten years. 
Because the food processing industry is closely tied to current American eating habits. much of the Basin has been developed for a "monoculturc" of potatoes. In the past IS years the American appct­tite for process potatoes (l hips, fries. instants. etc.) has increased ••vcr 40 times as consumers take more meals in restaurants. and fast food L"hains proliferate. 
In addition. potatoes are an enormously profitable crop: h.OOO acres of potatoes can earn more than 120.000 acres of wheat. 
Not surprisingly, two of the largest corporations in the Basin ­
P..J. Taggeres Co. and J. R. Simplot -jointly own Simtag Farms, the largest potato farm in the world. Taggeres· subsidiary, Chef-Reddy, controls 10 percent of the U.S. potato processing market. 
Traditional Irish folk music group performs Tuesday 
The Chicftans. Ireland's leading traditional folk music group, will perform next Tuesday at 8 p.m. in O"Laughlin Auditorium. 
The group, which includes six Irish musicians. has won everv 
international  music  award  and  
recorded  the  soundtrack  for  the  
movie, "Barry Lyndon."  

"The music they play is very different from what most Ameri­cans think of Irish music." Scan Golden. professor of English stat­ed. 
Golden, who broadl·ast~ a weekly program on WSND-FM, will pr~­scnt the Chieftan's music on show this evening at 6 p.m. 
Tickets for the Chicftans arc for students and $4 for admission. No resuvations will be taken for the show. 

Edward Goldberg lectured last night on the right to privacy. (Photo by Debbie Krilich) 
Libel suit difficult to prove says political scientist 
by Michael Lewis Staff Reporter 

Edward M. Goldberg, chairman of the Department of Political Science at California State Univer­sity, addressed a small crowd in the law building last night on "Consti­tutional Right to Privacy -A Promise Unfulfilled." 
Noting that the five Supreme Court decisions concerning privacy are specific and limited, Goldberg said, "Having established this right to privacy, I think the court has an obligation to protect these rights." 
He criticized the court for limit­ing their rulings to these decisions concerning abortion, pornography and use of contraceptives. ''The state of the privacy law is, at best. confused," he declared. 
Goldberg brought up a specific case in the Washington State Supreme Court. In this case, the court ruled that a person does not have the right to see his welfare or credit records, even if the contents 
I 
'1 

are inaccurate. 
''The Supreme Court officially 

granted the constitutional right to 
privacy in 1965, and has since 
given us almost nothing. That's 
why I call privacy a promise 
unfulfilled," he said. 
Responding to questions after 

the lecture, Goldberg commented 
on the issue of privacy and the 
press. "In effect, the press can do 
just about anything it wants to with 
any public figure. Libel must be 
proven by malice and wanton 
disregard for the truth, which is 
almost impossible." 
He quickly added that he did not 

advocate censorship, but he felt 
libel should be re-defined and that 
the press should restrain from 
printing non-public issues. 
In response to a question about legislative action and wiretappings, Goldberg cited statistics which indicated that only 12 of over 8000 wiretap requests had been denied. 'If anything, the legislature has acted to authorize wiretappings." 
he said. 
ROCK & ROLL WITH THE BEST BANDS IN TH MIDWEST NITELY (Except Tues) THIS WEEK:· FAITH 
, , . , . The White House Inn 683-9842 '! • · · 2a'~9 No.• 51th St. Niles 
Write for free information-without obligation. Glenmary Missioners, Room S-22 Box 46404, Cincinnati, OH 45246 
Name ___________ Age ____ Address _______________ City ____ 
' 

NEW DELHI, India (AP) -The Indian parliament on Thursday completed pa!,sage of an historic constitutional amendment stiffen­ing the executive clout of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi's govern­ment. 
With about a dozen opposition members sitting out in protest, the upper house Vi)ted 191-0 to give the government the sweeping new authority it h.1d requested to rule this nation of 610 million people. 
The amendment will become law after receiving the anticipated en­dorsement of a majority of India's 22 state assemblies. 
Passage of the amendment cap­ped the seri<!S of dramatic and st::emingly permanent changes implemented by Mrs. Gandhi in the 17 months since she proclaimed a national emergency ano curtailed individual rights and press free­dom. 
Four major non-Communist opposition parties. boycotting the current special legislative session, labeled the amendment "a blue­print for dictatorship." They con­tended that it would dear way for the final dismantling of the democ cratic institutions embodied in India's 26-year-old charter. 

The opposition cited the recent decision to postpone national elec­tions for at least another year as proof that the Mrs. Gandhi has no intention of restoring soon the political processes which had allow­ed India to call itself ''the largest democracy in the world.'' 
Durmg months of public discus­sions and the last two weeks of 
parliamentary debate. however. the government has stauchly denied that the amendment and the decision to postpone elections rep­resent a blow to Indian democracy. 
"What is being done is not at all to destroy democracy, but to main­tain and protect that democracy," Law Minister H.R. Gokhale told the lower house prior to its 366-4 
approval  of the  amendment  last  
week~  
Gokhale,  who  piloted  the  bill  

through both houses. said: "We have said repeatedly that this country would not deviate from the path of democracy." 
Mrs. Gandhi. present for the final vote, herself rose during the debate earlier this week to chastize the opposition for not cooperating and ro deny that she has led India to one-party authoritarian rule 

Friday, November 12, 1976 the observer 13 
Family viewing time suit causes network split 
1\IOTICES 

Gay Community of Notre Dame. Call 283.8870 10:00 to 12;00 Friday and Saturday or write: PO Box 206, Notre Dame. 
Accurate, Fa;t Typin(l. Mrs. Dono­ho, 232-07 46. Hours: 8 am to 8 pm. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-150. !DAY WAIT.! PERCENT INTER+ EST. DUE I~ 30 DAYS. LAFOR+ TUNE BASI:MENT. M-F 11:15­12:15. 
Tickets for the J GEILS BANDlfa JAMES GAII1G Concert Friday NOV· ember 19 at Kalamazoo's Win(ls Stadium are now on sale at the River City Review Outlest: Boo(lie Rec· ords, Kolle(le Square and Just for the Record (1 00 Center) 
AUDIO OUTLET: All top-name stereo equip nent wholesale. CALL 283.1181 
GREGG BANGS SEZ: An American Studies Happy Hour will be held at Bridget Ma!!Uire's this Friday at 4 pm. Be there. 
SATURDAY IS BOB MAIER'S 21st 

·.BIRTH DAY. GIVE HIM A KISS OR A HANDSHAKE, WHICH EVER YOU DEEM APPROPRIATE. 
Callll97 
FRAN DEMARCO SAYS: SORRY-­DUE TO REPAIRS.. BALLROOM DANCE CLASSES WILL RESUME IN LAFORTUNE BALLROOM EACH SUilDAY AFTERNOON.. 
2:30 to 4 pm. WALK IN ALONE OR IN A GRC!UP, ALL ARE W EL­COME. PAY ONLY FOR THE CLASS OR CLASSES YOU ATTEND $2 EACH. 
typin(l --3S cents a pa(le. Call Dan .. 272.5S49. 
~ 
FOR RENT 
Need two or three roomates for 5-bedroom house with fireplace. OPENING immediately or for next semester. $40 monthly, plus utili­ties Call21l8-5661 after 6. 
Gara(leforr·ent. Call after5:15. 287­5718. 
Will rent ny upstairs $40 month. Girls only. >:a\1233-1329. 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST: AT CAMPUS VIEW APTS. FRI. NITE: NOV. A SUEDE , WINTER COAT WITH WHITE SHEEPSKIN LINING. IF FOUND CONTACT JIM(3210) NO QUES+ TIONSAS~:EO. REWARD. 

Classified Ads 
Lost: SMC (lold class rin'l en'lraved WANTED 
with Mary Esther Hall: BS, '78. 

Reward if found. Call 4524. Need two Alabama Tix. Call Nancy 1276. Please HELP!!! I desperately need 3
Lost. Calculator (SRSOAJ between GA Alabama Tickets for parents and
the circle and the library on NO 
a priest. Call Stephanie 1364.
Ave., Thurs. nile, Oct. 28. Please 
return. Call Ben, 233·4222 Need 2 GA Alabama Tickets call John 1757.
To the bstd. who stole Calif. license 
plate 565 JMV, I want it back! Call Need GA Tix for Alabama. Call1747. 
6153. 
LOST: Camera and attachments Need Ride to MSU on Friday 1l'ld9.
form occupant's room in Old Field Call Nick 8225.
House (Art Dept.) Over October 
break. Film in camera is important. 
Desperately need 2 GA tix forOwner would (lreatly appreciate its Miami--Call Pe(l:JY 4·4381. 
return. Call 1354 or 4-4820. 
Need ride to Purdue or Indy FridayLost and Foun·d: If you picked up the the 12th. Will share expenses. 7983.
wron(l camel hair jacket by mistake 
at Morrissey's Campus View party, Must have 2 GA tix for Alabama..
Sat. Oct. 30, please call Shannon 
will pay. Call John at 3019.
5150 SMC. I've (lOt yours--reward 
for mine back. 
Will pay dollars for 2 GA Alabama Tix. Call· Tom 3693.
LOST: A brown shoulder bac, in the 
South Dining Hall, West Side. Call 
Need Alabama tickets somethin'Karen 7951. Reward. 

fierce. Call Martha at 4819. LOST: between Farley and D-1 
Need up to 10 'Barna tix. $$$ Call
parkine~ lot. A pold and purple 
Jim or Kevin at 234-8083 after 5.
earrine~. Lost last Friday Call6868. 
·····---------------------./-------------------­
Need GA tickets for ALAbama or Miami. Call6617. 
FOR SALE 

Need 2 GA Alabama Tickets . Call Swiss Wrist Watch (day-date), or­
Gary 3075. nate Indian bedspreads, neckties, 
Desperately need 2 GA Bama ticketsetc. Call Ed. 288-0018, 8:30-10:00 
any night. 
call 5154. 
Miami tixs wanted. (GAJ Need blockFOR SALE: Sherwood S·7225 Stereo of 4·6 tickets. Phone Ray 288-2323. 
Receiver, Realistic lab·14 turntable, 
2 MC-1000 speakers, stereo head. 
1need 3 GA Miami Tix Call4047.
· phones, and cabinet. $250 or best offer. Call Curt at 8711 after 5:00. 
Will Swap two Ch ica(lO tickets for your Doobie Bros. Padded. John
Two Chicae~o Tix toe~ether, padded 
seats. Call Tom 1022. 
1081. 
Need ride to Iowa, Dubuque..CedarBOOK SHOP. Used Books. Students Rapids area for Thanks(livin(l break.
Paradise. Open Wed, Sat, Sun. 9-7. 
will share expenses. Call John 1723.
Ralph casperson Books, 1303 Buch­
anan Road, Niles, Mich. 683-2888. 
Desperately need 6 GA Bama tix for rich relatives. Will pay top dollar.
Texas Instrument SR-50 For Sale. 
6931.
one-half year old. $45.00. Calll196 
evenin(ls. 
Desperately need Barna GA or student tix. Call Ron 8685.
2 Student Bama tickets call 5154. 
2 GA Alabama Tix Wanted. Call Fri.
Miami GA tix for sale. Kevin or 
Jack 1816. 
after 9 am 233-5373. 
Need two CJOOd ChicaCJo tickets.des­
For Sale: Liber Pastoralis by Pope perate!! Please call 7i45.
Gree~ory the Great, 30.00 published 
1730. Babes in the Darkling Woods Need 6 BAMA fix, Big Money GA orby H.G. Wells (si(lned) 15.00. Three student. Kevin 1657.

Years Through the Interior Pats of North America by Jonathan Carver, 125.00, published 1792. We have thousands of other books at the Book Barn, 52303 Emmons 1.5 miles from NO. 272-5520. ..----.----------------------------------------~ · 
' ,'·'
I I I 

. , .:~ e 1­
--.r;,-·-~..·-~-1' -..../ ..·.·.;-,"-....~~,-:··.. \"· ~.. '" t ~ ',••. ~.-, ~~ '-.• l I l. ' .. I 
NEW. YORK (AP) -In a major split in the legal battle over television's "family hour" policy, NBC said Thursday it won't appeal a federal court decision that de­clares the policy unlawful a~ part of the National Association of Broad­casters' code of standards. 
CBS. which pushed for adoption of the policy by the industry. and ABC last week each said thcv"d appeal the Nov. 4 decision ·on "family viewing" b~· U.S. District Court J udgc Warren .1. Ferguson in Los Angeles. 
There was no immediate com­ment from CBS or ABC on NBC's decision against joining them in an appeal of Ferguson's ruling. 
The ruling doesn't ban a "family viewing" policy by broadcasters. onlv its use as an industrvwidc rcq.uiremcnt for membership ·in the NAB. to which the three networks and over 400 TV stations belong. 
Ferguson ruled that the networks and the NAB violated the First Amendment in adopting the "fam­ily viewing" polic~· and did so under pre~sun~ from the Federal Communications Commission. 
NBC. in a statement here. said Ferguson's decision "is a clear and strong prohibition against govern­ment interference with broadcast program scheduling. 
"NBC agrees with this principle and will not seck reversal of that ruling." 
The NAB's "family viewing" policy says programs deemed in­appropriate for viewing by a gen­eral familv audience shouldn't be aired eariy at night by nehn>rks and local statior• 
It applies to "·--~" ed by networks in the first pnme-time 'lour each night and the immediate­~~· preceding lonll hour. 
Need 2 Alabama tickets call 6760. 
NEEDED: 2 TICKETS TO DOOBIE BROS. CALL JANET 8113. 
NEED RIDE TO COLUMBUS OHIO OVER THANKSGIVING BREAK. CAN LEAVE AS EARLY AS TUES'. 23 SHARE DRIVING AND EX+ PENSES. CALL TIM AT 1658 
Will pay $20 for two f"IOOd Ch ica'lo Tickets. Call Chris 288 9768. 
PERSONALS 
GREG, SO GROSS, WEITHMAN: DO IT IN DER ECKE! LOVE, TRENCHMOUTH. 
Senor Hausman, Hola! (that's Joe's contribution) Feliz Cumpleanos! (that's Barb's contribution) Adios, Senor Botticelli y Senorita LanCJ· henry. · 
Jeff, Happy Birthday! We all hope its fun!! Si(lned, the Notre Dame Community 
Rick, we love the blue flowers. Thanks for the kind thou(lht. We're still smiline~!! With smiles, 218 
What's better than an election niCJht party? A Beat Barna Beer Bash!! Friday, Nov., 12 at 9:00 pm. The Boys at 210 E. Edison Rd. 
W im: Hope the bar~ survive your celebration. Happy birthday!! Love, Nano, Mary and Molly 
Sorin 7 Housewarmin(l party. Friday, 4:00 on. 10 ke!Js. 11 houses north of Nickies. 
welcome home to the mexico kid, alias mo bei ~hauser. alfes gutes, mo--it's good to have you around, even for such a short time. love, the gang 
Does your life need some zing? Tired of the same old thing? Do you lack that x-tra Ping? Want to make your sing? .. the bells rinra? .. the birds sin(l"? If yes, you're ready for the Sadie Hawkins flin(l. 
There once was a guy who was shy. He said I cant'! ask her, I'll die. but for a small fee, at Sadie Hawkins he'll be. So a ticket to the dance he did buy. 
Mar. Just what are you doinra in here? ..19 and still my baby..Happy Birthday. T.squared 
Happy Birthday, Cies! Watch out fortheBirthdayWedraie!! 

.-,···--···;····•···-·········.···•··••·•••···•· I I I, t • 
The. polin went into effect in September 1975. A month later. three Holl~·wood entertainment guilds and variou~ producers. among them Norman Lear of the hit '"All in the Famill''" ~cries. filed suit against the policy in Fergu­~on ·., court. 
NBC abo .,aid thcn·"ll be nl' changes in its 0\1 n pulic·l -whirh il sa1., was in forrc long hdotT the· N,\B '"famill''" rule -·of "h"" ing programs sui1ablc for .l!l"llL"!"al fan;. ill' viewing in thL" lir.,l primc··llllll' hour at night. 
Help save the South Shore 
Anvone wishing to protL""I the tcrmi.nation of sc~viLT frnm S11u!h Bend to Chicago by the -,,,u!h Shore railmad should "rill l•' Edward Shock. Offin: ,,f PrnL"L'l"d­ings. Interstate Commerce' Com­mission. Washington. D.C .. ~0-123. 
Hearings on the Ji~c·ontmua­tion of the South Shore Sen iL"L" \\ill be held DEc. 8. so all corrcspon· dence should before that date. 
B-P dances for Sadie 
Brecn-Phillips Hall will sponsor a Sadie Hawkins Dance Frida1. Nov. 12. from 9:30p.m. to I a.m.~~ Stepan Center. Live mu~k will be provided by '· Bag~hot Row.·' The dance will feature such special attractions as a kis~ing booth. a marriage minister and a jail. 
Admission is $1 per person and $3 per couple. "You can't come with a date and vou can't leave without one," Jean Walsh. Breen­Phillips social commissioner explained. 
If's a bird, it's a plane .it's th£ "Indiana Banana"' 
Sabrina I'm lookin" toward to il (lood weekend seen any ducks fly in'l lately. 1 hear that the seasor opens soon so sharpen up your aim SHOOT THEM DUCKS WHILE THEY'RE FLYING!'! 
Happy Anniversary Rick and JoAnn 
"Alice's" Happy 18th 2" by 4" 
"Alice's'' 
... 
Steffens. the kinder'larden wei. comes you. Snu(l'llebunny, 1 love you! Quality 
Dink, Love that Birthday suit. Keep 'em comin'l at the branch office. The (lUYS ai MMP 
Krissy Gro(lan: Putty face, Mrs. W irry, P. G., B. B. on Lunt , the Snu(l(lery, Nickie, Jame, Toots, B·<lin, the Happy Medium and the Venetable BuddiE's all wish you the CJreatest 21st!! 
Attention! My name is Leo Mac Courtney and my roomates are already 21. Not to be outdone, I announce a 21st birthday this Sun day, too. Cards with money or job offers appreciated. 
Special Thanks to Chris and Bob (and all the Observer staff) for holdin1 down the fort lor me on Wednesday. 
Saturday you can 'live Joe Missbach (or is it Misback?) 21 B"day spank in'lS· or better yet, (live him il pinch to <1row an inch Have fun toni(lhl' Love, A. 
Brother Jim, and Friar Dan, Great Snowball fi'lhl! Sisters of Holy Cross. · 
Dear Nancy and Kathy, Welcome th dreamland. THIS IS COLLEGE! But watch it.. the <lame is on TV! Have fun. Love, Mar'lie 
Dearest Disco Deb. Have a Happy Birthday and don't for[let to wear your disco dancinra shoes or you won't (let the disco dude that you desire! Love, your friends 
My dear Deb, 1do hope that veu will step behind the dishwasher to disco with me. Happy Birthday. Love, The Oishwashin" Daddy. 
IN LOVING MEMORY of our house. hold cat, BUFU, who inadvertenlly froze to death over Oct. Break. Burial ceremony will be midnight Saturday at the 823 Nd Ave Chapel. Deepest regrets and sympathies may be paid in person or send check or money orders. Flowers are wel­come but please, no cameras allow­ed. Fr. Genuine will deliver the euloray. Beer will be served. 
.. -...... ~-.-..........-••.. -..... ··< c. 

--~~·----~~~--------~-~~-----~------. 
Friday, November 12, 1976

14 the observer . 
N.D. vs. 'Bama-a memorable series 
by Tim Bourret Sports Writer 

Throughout the eight and a half decades of Notre Dame football the Irish have established traditional rivalries with many institutions. Past contests with Southern California. Army, Michigan State and Purdue stimulate fond memories in the minds of long time Fighting Irish football fanatics. 
Although Notre Dame and Alabama have met on the gridiron only twice prior to tommorrow afternoon's clash in Notre name Stadium, the meetings have proved to he two of the most notable games in the illustrious football heritages of the respec­tive school. 
The 1973 Sugar Bowl will go down in history as one of college football's most l'XCiting games. It was one of those rare college contests in which the winner would daim undisputed possession of the Nation­Championship. The Crimson Tide entered the game as three point favorites based on their hefty offensive statistical rankings. They ranked second nationally in total offt:nsc_ and rushing offense, and third in scoring (41.3 I'PG). The Irish also rated well statistically scoring 35.8 PPG. while limiting its opponents to a mere 6.6 PPG. It was a dream confrontation, the nations second ranking offense against the coun­
;try's second rated defense. . Notre Dame did not figure to be fighting J'or a number one ranking on this rainy New Ycar'~Evc as the 1973 season began. The Irish were coming off consecutive defeats at the hands of SouthernCalifornia.the 1972 t'Jational Champions, and a powerful Nebraska team that featured the acrobatics ~f Heismann Trophy winner Johnny Rod-
f.
ers. Notre Dame's "Disappointing" 8-3 ecord in 1972 was attributed to an experienced defense that had been urned by fast running backs who seemed 
tl:> be able to turn the corner on the Irish's nks at will. Ara Parseghian realized this 
~
aw in his defensive allignment so he 1phasized the need for a quick defensive ~d in his recruiting journeys of the winter cf 1973. 
Ara found what he was looking for in a s nior from Warren, Ohio. Ross Browner 
as a tall. muscular 218-pound freshman i 1973, but it was his speed and agility t at solved many of Parseghian 's defensive 
aladies on a team that had yielded 85 p ints in its final two games of 1972. Another Freshman also cracked the start­i~ lineup on the defense. Luther Bradley remedied many a problem for the Irish from his strong safety position, as he led Notre Dame in interceptions, despite the presence of All-American Mike Townsend, and nearly established a record for passes broken up in a season. His performance against Southern California that year, the pivotal mid-season contest for the eventual National Champions, was incredible. No Notre Dame fan will forget his beheading of Lynn Swann on the Trojans first snap that cloudy afternoon in Notre Dame Stadium. 
For Alabama fans it was no surprise that their squad was battling for the national crown. The 1972 Tide team remained near the top for most of the season, as they began the campaign with a 66-0 -rout ~f California, blitzed Virginia Tech 77-6 at mid-season, and polished off their unde­feated regular season with a 35-0 sack of traditional rival Auburn. They also relied 1'n youth in their successful 1973 season. Richard Todd ran for over 550 ycards from hi"> yuartcrback position as a sophomore. Freshman Calvin Culliver and sophomore Willie Shelby combined for over 600 yards and a 7.5 yard average out of Bear Bryant's irrepressible "wishbone" ground attack. 
Experts till yuestioned the quickness of the Notre Dame defense. Could they contain this stable of running backs Bear Hr\'ant had at his disposal, a crew that 
> 
featured II hacks with S.S yard averages or ()l·ttL·r? Two hours before kickoff Alabama lans must have thought the Irish had help !rom the heavens as a torrential rain storm flooded Tulane Staduim in New Orleans, a storm many felt would hurt "Barna's" 
potent terrain attack. But. by the time Alabama's Greg Gantt kicked-off the proceeding skies had quieted. Even the spirits from heaven did not want to miss the game between number one Alabama and third ranked Notre Dame. 
Both teams played conservatively on their first pair of possessions. But, near the end of the first period Ara Parseghian felt it was time to open up his balanced offense. On first down from his own 36 Notre Dame quarterback Tom Clements hit his favorite receiver, Pete. Demerle on a perfectly executed crossing pattern for 19 yards. One play later, the duo hooked up again for 26 yards, and suddenly the underdog Irish were 17 yards from the Alabama goal. Four plays later fullback Wayne "the train" Bullock powered over from the one on third down for the first score of the game, capping Notre Dame's balanced seven play 64 yard drive. Brian Doherty suffered a rare fumble on the snap from center, depriving Bob Thomas of any extra-point opportunity. 
The Irish held the 6-0 lead at the end of the first quarter. Alabama began to mix things up in the second stanza, utilizing the passing ability of Gary Rutledge. Notre Dame had dominated the first period statistically, holding Alabama's vaunted rushing attack to zero yards total offense. 
The Crimson Tide had one drive to the Irish 17 stalled by a faulty pitch, but converted a Wayne Bullock fumble into a touchdown with seven minutes left in the half. Randy Billingsley gave Alabama its first lead of the game on a four yard run. 
The momentum had definitely turned toward the Tide. Notre Dame's offense had been stagnate on its last three possessions and Alabama was moving consistently. Then, a young freshman out of Greenville, North Carolina ended Ala­bama's temporary feeling of nirvana. AI Hunter, who had returned but three kickoffs in the regular season snatched the ensuing kickoff and raced 93 yards untouched for a touchdown. The entire Notre Dame team raced into the endzone to congratulate "young Hunt," who had been caged all season behind Ara's veteran with option plays to Penick and Bullock. The drive appeared to be stalled a bit as the Irish entered Alabama territory. With a third and one on the Alabama 45. Parseghian decided to pull one out of Vince Lombardi's playbook. He instructed Clements to throw long, ala Bart Starr, tight-end Dave Casper, presently one of the leading receivers in the NFL. The pass was short, but Casper remarkably out­fought the Alabama defenders, grabbing the dying quail for a 30-yard gain. The Notre Dame drive stalled on the Alabama two when a pass for Wayne Bullock fell incomplete in the endzone. With 4:26 left Bob Thomas converted a 19-yard field goal to give the Irish a tenuous one point lead, the fifth lead change of the game. The kick itself was an indication of the unusual nature of the game as Thomas' soccer-style boot barely made the crossbar as it "spiralled" into the first rows of the stands. 
Alabama returned Thomas' squibbing kickoff to their own 40. The Notre Dame defense knew the Crimson Tide must throw the ball. Three plays lost eight yards, as freshman Ross Browner sacked Rutledge on a key third-downpassattempt setting up a fourth and eighteen situation. Greg Gantt, who averaged 49 yards a punt during the season, punted 69 yards to the Notre Dame one. Ross Browner was called for roughing Gantt however, which could have reduced Alabama's fourth-down task to a three yard effort, but Bear Bryant gambled on his defense's ability to contain the Irish. 
Two running plays netted four yards for 

This Pt>te .Demerle catch was good for a two-point conversion in the 1973 Sugar Bowl 
game agamst Alabama. The play proved to be crucial as the Irish won the national 
championship by a single point, 24-23. starting backfield. Parseghian then com-Wayne Bullock, moving the ball to the manded his forces to go for a two-point Notre Dame five. As the Irish lined up for conversion. It was executed flawlessly, as their all-important third down play confu-Tom Clements hit a wide-open Pete sion reigned on the Alabama side of the Demerle for what turned out to be a vital field, and they were forced to call timeout. pair of points. Alabama added a Bill Davis Then as the Irish prepared for the play field goal just before the half to cut Notre again, a Notre Dame player was called for Dame's lead to 14-10 at intermission. illegal procedure, moving the ball back to 
Cliff Brown kick-off the decisive second the three. halffor the Irish. "Barna" continued their With third and eight would Ara dare offensive show at the beginning of the third pass from this deep in his own territory? period as they drove 93 yards in 11 plays Intentional grounding in the endzone or a for the lead touchdown, a five yard burst by slip of some sort on the part of Clements Wilbur Jackson, now an NFI. star with San would result in a 25-24 Alabama victory. Francisco. Clements faded into his endzone and 
The two squads exchanged solid drives looked for his tight-end. No it was not throughout the next eight minutes of the Dave Casper, but an .unknown sophomore period, but failed to convert the crucial play. named Robin Weber, who had only an 
Notre Dame finally converted an Alabama 11-yard reception to his credit all year. The mistake with 2:43 left in the third quarter. 35-yard reception gave the Irish a game Sophomore halfback Willie Shelby fumbled Clinching first down and the National on his own 10 and Drew Mahalic recovered Championship. giving the Irish ideal field position. On the · Two days later the Associated Press' very next play Eric Penick sprinted around final poll was released. The Irish had left end into the Notre Dame cheering garnered 33 first place votes in winning section for the score and a 21-17 Notre their first National Championship since Dame advantage. 1966. Ohio State, 42-21 victors over USC, 
Atabama used a typical SEC razzle-daz-held the number two spot, Oklahoma, on zle play to regain the lead early in the its first year of probation, ranked third, and fourth period. Richard Todd threw a Alabama fell to fourth. pitchout to halfback Mike Stock on a third Ara Parseghian stated shortly after the and seven play from the Notre Dame 25. game, "It is far more difficult staying on Stock, a native of Elkhart, Indiana, then top than it is getting there in the first threw a perfect pass back across the field to place." Unfortunately for Notre Dame a wide-open Todd for the 25 yard score, fans Ara was correct in his statement.. The giving Alabama a 23-21 lead. Bill Davis, luck of the Irish had apparently been used who had connected on 51-53 extra-points in to ~ts saturation point in 1973. In the the regular season, failed on the most spring and summer of 1974 Ara lost important attempt of his life allowing the numerous starters and valuable back-up Tide to hold a two point lead. people for reasons including injury. And,· 
Notre Dame came right back on the next by season's end Notre Dame had lost Ara. series, a drive that was to lead to the most Notre Dme responded to most of the important kick attempt of Bob Thomas challenges of the 1974 regular season. career. AI' Hunt.er started the drive off on They suffered an early season loss at home the right foot with a 15 yard run off right' , . .again'st Purd~e·, g~vipg up 24 points in the tackle, Tom Cle_m.~ts conlinq~d. ~~e m!lr~h , .fi.r~t q~art~~· ~ndm~ the nations longest 
~ ~ ' " 
winning streak at 13 games. The Irish began winning again, but by close margins against teams they were heavily favored to beat. 
Alabama continued their winning ways in 1974 defeating 11 straight schools on the way to their fourth straight SEC title. Those 11 wins enabled the Tide to gain the number one: ranking by one of the wire service polls at the conclusion of the regular season (Ohio State was number one in the other poll). 
The Irish got back into the National 
Championship picture by seasons end, but a second half collapse at USC destroyed their hopes of repeating as the nation's best. 
On December 15, 1974 Ara Parseghian announced his retirement as the Notre Dame coach effective after the Orange Bowl contest with Alabama. It had been a difficult season for the Notre Dame mentor of the past 11 years. Suspensions, disciplinary action and close games had doubled the grey hairs on Ara's head. The problems came to a head in Southern California. Notre Dame jumped out to a 24-0 lead close to halftime, but the nation's number one ranked defense allowed an incredible 49 points in the second half of a SS-24 debacle. Rumors spread considering the possibility that the Irish might have thrown the game, because of disciplinary action enforced on ''gifted Black running back'' Art Best. Other stories concerning locker room altercations also circulated the country. 
Now Notre Dame was to face the number one team in the country in the Orang Bowl with nothing on the line but pride. Early in the afternoon of Jan. 1, 1975 Ohio State blew their chance for the national title with an 18-17 Rose Bowl loss to USC. Alabama knew they would become number one with a victory over Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame was ranked number one in total defense going into this contest, despite the high yield to Southern Califor­nia in the season finale. They showed their true defensive prowess throughout the 1975 Orange Bowl, as they used a similar defensive strategy that stymied a number one ranked Texas team in the 1971 Cotton Bowl. The Irish took a 7-0 first quarter lead on a four yard run by Wayne Bullock, who played in pain the entire evening. Mark McLane capted a 77 yard, 17 play drive at the outset of the second quarter with a nine-yard run giving Notre Dame a surprising 13-0 lead. Danny Ridgeway booted a 21-yard field goal just before halftime to cut Notre Dame's lead to 13-3. 
The two schools battled through a scoreless third period as the defenses continued to dominate the action. Ala­bama moved the ball consistently in the fourth quarter but the Irish defense came up with the clutch play when it was called for. John Dubenetzky made a key interception in the middle of the final period on his own 10 to squelch a Crimson Tide threat. With 4:29 left in the game Richard Todd finally broke the Notre Dame defense as he hit Russ Schamun with a 48-yard scoring pass. A two-point conver­sion toss from Todd to tight-end George 
Pugh cut Notre Dame's lead to 13-11.  The  
Irish  failed  on  their  next  series  and  
Alabama  regained possession  with  1 :39  

left. Todd connected on three clutch passes to move the ball to the Notre Dame 
38. But, with just over one minute remaining, Reggie Barnett picked off an errant pass to save the Notre Dame conquest by twice the margin of the previous year's triumph. Ironically the Notre Dame victory allowed long-time nemisis Southern Califormia to back in to the national title. 
Notre Dame had truly "won one for Ara" in his final game at Notre Dame. But, just as importantly, and as Ara stated after the victory, the players had won one for themselves. They had regained their self-respect and laid to rest the rumors that had hovered over the team since the USC game. 
It will be impossible for this years squad to gain a national championship tomorrow with a victory over the Crimson Tide, as the 1973 team did. But, the accomplishments of the 1975 Orange Bowl winners can be appreciated by the Irish faithful with a 
victory. The 1976 Irish have suffered .two defeats this year, due mainly to a rash of injuries. The squad's self-pride and confidence must have been diminished by last week's defeat at Georgia Tech. They can regain those necessary intangibles with a victory over the Tide. The Ii:ish's faithful is hoping history can repeat itself. 

l~--­
r 
the observer

Irish leers seek to regroup on road against Michigan 
by Chip Scanlon Sports Writer 

With rebounding in mind Notre Dame's Irish leers travel to .Ann Arbor. Michigan to take on the 
number one Wolverines. Currently the Irish are at one and three but according to Lefty Smith 
"Michigan may have a surprise coming to them." 
Coming off what Smith terms "three of the finest workdays we've had in a long time" the Irish will 
be a little stmngcr than past weeks now that the line-up is getting back to normal. 
Geoff Colli~r has two games under his belt after being out for several weeks with a shoulder 
separation. Also getting back closer to 100 percent is Don Jackson. Jackson had more of his cast 
removed this week and is at "About 90 percent" according to Smith. 
The Irish changed their lines around quite a big last Saturday night and it looks like these c;hanges 
will stay. Bri.m Walsh will be centering Clark Hamilton and Greg Meredith as Notre Dame looks to 
more scoring punch up front. The second line will be intact. The third line will have Tom Michalek in 
the middle be ween Ted Weltzin and Ray Johnson. On the fourth line will be left wing AI Karsnia and 
right ~ing Geoff Collier being centered by Steve Schneider. 
On the blut line will be Jack Brownschidle and Dick Howe. Don Jackson and Roger Bourque and 
Tom DeWerd and John Friedmann. And )3rownschidle is completely over the sore thigh that 
hampered him throughout the Denver series. 
"We reali<c that the challenge of' playing Michigan will be quite strong," states Smith. "Tlrey're 
a tine hockey team and they have a good rink to play in. The icc there is always in top condition," he 
quoted. Aftet playing in the Denver Arena pond ice would look good. 
"Without the injuries withstanding I'd be disappointed with the 1-3 mark, but with the heart of our 
defense out it was bound to be disruptive.· Smith confessed. 
This year Michigan is characterized by strong forwards that have been making up for the 
shortcomings of their dcfcnsemcn. Returning for Michigan arc two top scorers. Kris Mancry and Dave Dcbol. Last year thse two combined for 73 goals and 46 assists to pace the Wolverine attack. 
Anchoring a young defense is Greg Natale. a smart defenseman who has done steady work for the Wolverines. His play will have to continue to be steady as three of the three defenscmen for Michigan arc freshmen .md arc inexperienced in the WCHA. 

Rich Palmer and Frank Zimmerman have been alternating in the nets for the coach Dan Farrell and are expected t.J split the chores this weekend against the Irish. 
Brian Walsh will be at center for Notre Dame tonight .1g.1inst
Game time for the Friday and Saturday night contests will be 7:30 p.m. EST. The games can be 

: AI Hunter returned a kickoff 93 yards for a touchdown in the 1973 Sugar Bowl. 
Tony P•:.ce Pace's Picks 
Last week was a rather interesting one in the NFL. Referee Chuck Herberling brought back the chant "kill the ref' and O.J. Simpson showed his ;pugilistic abilities. This week should be somewhat more sane as the teams fight for playoff spots. 
CHICAGO ov~r Green Bay 14 points -The Bears should have won last week de!.pite the blown call. Bob Thomas has put the word "shank" into the football vocabulary. St. Louis over LOS ANGELES by I point -This is a pivotal game for both teams; the Cards still remember last years humiliation at the hands of the Rams in the playoffs. Denver over SAN DEIGO by 3 points -The Broncos destroyed Tampa Bay last week and seem to be on the upswing. Detroit over J'I,EW ORLEANS by 10 points -Tommy Hudspeth has the Lions playing well while the Saints are having another forgettable se..tson. CINCINNATI •1Jver Houston by 17 points -The Bengals are looking tough. while John Had! tries to pick up the slack at the Oiler helm. OAKLAND over Kansas City by 3 points -Some of the luster has disappeared ftom this game; it used to be a grudge match. PITTSBURGH over Miami by 14 points-The Steel Curtain defense is playing as we all knew that it could, but the Steelers still trail the Bengals by two games. BALTIMORE over New England by 4 points-In another significant game. Bert Jones should lead the Colts over Steve Grogan and the Pats. CLEVELAND over Philadelphia by 1 point-In the pre-merger days, these two teams were rivals in the NFL's Century division, now they rarely meet. San Francisco over ATLANTA by 20 points -Any team that loses to an expansion club is a sorry outfit. MINNESOTA over Seattle by 10 points-The Seahawks are a better team than Tarrpa Bay, but they will need a few years to mature. NEW YORK JI:TS over Tampa Bay by ,3 points-Richard Todd steps into Joe Willie'~ white shoes and John McKay dreams of Ricky Bell.. NEW JERSEY GIANTS over Washington by 3 points -Yes, I am picking a team that has yet to win a game. The Giants have always played the 'Skins tough. DALLAS over IJuffalo by 8 points -If O.J. stays in this game for more than a quarter this could be interesting. 
i; 1.'

LAST WEEK I 1-3 . 785 
I f; .'•. 
'--------------------------------------------' 
Michigan after three games on defense. [Photo b)' Kevin Walsh ) 
'Bear1 relaxed before clash 
by Ray O'Brien Sports Writer 

If a team's mood is reflected by its coach's disposition, then the Ala­bama squad is looking forward to tomorrow's clash as they would a Saturday picnic. · 
In an exclusive phone interview yesterday. Coach Paul "Bear" Brvant sounded calm and jovial al~10st to the point of being bored by the whole affair. The legendary college coach was very personable as he discussed the upcoming confrontation between the Fighting Irish and the Crimson Tide. 
"This is a big game for us. This is the tirst time that we have met Notre Dame during the regular season so I'm not quite sure what to expect." explained Bryant. "I've never even been in the stadium although several of my players have. We are certainly looking forward to it." 
With both team's records show­ing two losses the game certainly is a must for both squads. However, the "Bear" said he did not feel any extra pressure going into this game. And why should he for that matter? 
The gruff, elderly coach has become a permanent fixture at the southern university. In his 21 seasons as boss of the football program at Alabama Bryant has lead his team to a 162-33-8 record including two national champion­ships. Job security is hardly a factor for Bryant as he also happens to be Alabama's athletic direccor. 
"We've had the big testrebuild­ing job we've had in years." said Bryant. Like Notre Dame fans, the Alabama students aren't used to defeats. The fact that Alabama was 2-2 after the first four games presented a shock to them. The 

.team has no\\Teorganized with five straight wins but Bear claims the fans were always patient. ''The students have been great. They have helped this team tremendous­ly," commented Bryant. 
When questioned about the pre­sence of Notre Dame students and the home field advantage, Bryant responded. "The home crowd and field is always an advantage, however I .know the Notre Dame students have a lot of class. They won't be yelling when we get the ball on offense! Will they ?" 
Bear Bryant has had a special spot in the hearts of Notre Dame students because of the bowl 

. clash~s between the two t.eam.s. 
1·, Twice, J;olptre, ,Dame , h!l~. ~ndeq ·Alabama's quest for a natiomiJ· championship. "I don't feel venge­idea how the team can do in ~now. ful at all. I was outcoached in those I probably don't have livt• gu~·~ 011 two games so I would really like to the team that have ever seen snow. 
win this time around." drawled I hope you get those damn folks out Bryant. there and get it all cleaned ur before we get out there.··
No one reallv knows what to expect for this· game including Although this is the first ilrvant himself. "The team that regular season match bet\\ een the bk~cks and tackles the best will two schoob. Dan Devine and win," quipped Bryant. When Bryant have met in the post. asked what player~ on the Notre "Yeah, I think our teams met once Dame team would have to be keyed before. We beat Dandv whL•n he on the 6.1-ycar old coaching expert was with Mi-.~<Hiri. · · retorted, "If I knew I wouldn't tell 
Bryant plans on remaining' at vou. But vou know I'll be watching 

Alabama for a few more vears at that kid (AI Hunter) who ran back 
least. He described his hope!> for that kirk off against us in the 1973 
what the future holds as "more Sugar Bowl. We will also have to 
wins." The dean of coaches was st<)p the fullback in the running 
clever enough not to do anyattack." 
predicting saying. "I don't know who will win but I know it will be aThe sno~· and cold weather could good game regardles~ of the wea­also be a big factor in the game's ther conditons. ·•
outcome. When told that there was two inches of show on the ground The lrhh fans can only hope and the white stuff was still coming Bear goes back as he ('amc. a loser Bryant cried "Oh no! I have no against Notre Dame. 
Sweet '73 memories 
by Tony Pace Sports Writer 

As anyone involved with Notre Dame should know, the last time the Fighting Irish football team won the National Championship was in 1973. Thev achieved this feat by edging Alabama 24-23 on December 31, 1973 in the Sugar Bowl game. Bear Bryant says the Sugar Bowl game will be played in South Bend this year. obviously referring to tomorrow's N.D. -Barna clash. 
Some of the members of the present team had the opportunity to play in that classic Sugar Bowl match three Ytt~r.s•. ~go. Here are some of their recollections of that game and thoughts about the upcoming duel: 
Robin Weber, tight end: "My catch of that TomClements' pass on third down was the biggest play I ever made in my Notre Dame career. Since then we've seen different places and different faces. 
Satur~y·s game should be a good one. I'm looking forward to it." 
Ross Browner, defensive end: "Since Bear Bryant says this is another bowl game, I'll be ready for it as though it were a bowl game. The game three years ago ~as a real tussel; it was. the most 
. ~1'-t;iting g!lme that l'vetaken part in: l hope this game is as good." 
Willie fry. captain and dcfensi\'t end: "The game three ~·cars agf was the most exciting game that I've ever witnessed. The captaim on that team (DaVL' Casper. Frank Pomariro and Mike Townsend; were men that all of the player~ wanted to he likL·. Unfortunatelv. I was injured for that game and didn't play much." 
"Saturday·~ game will hl' some­thing ')ll'cial.lf we beat Alabama. I think WL' ran go to a bowl game." he said. 
Luther Bradlc~·. cornerback: "I have fond memories of that Sugar Bowl game, but that has little affect on my feelings about this game. This is a must game for us hecau-.r we need it to get a bowl hid. Mentally it's tough because you ar< nervous carl\' in the week and th;tl stays with y~u until game time.'· 
AI Hunter. halfback: "From tht Sugar Bowl game I remember m) kickoff return (93 yards for ~ touchdown) and the -fact that we .. defeated the number one team in the eountrv to become national champions: I hear that Bear Bryant says that this is a bowl game; we'll have to look at it as one ourselves. There is a spirited rivalry betwcerJ .. our teams and, considering that fact that we have cost them twc national titles, it should be a spirited game." 
Well, there's the players' 
,I,·,

sen~iment:/, • ' · 
.---~------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
j

16 the observer Friday, November 12, 1976 
'High' Tide looking to drown Irish 
by Fred Herbst Sports Editor 

Revenge. That's what the Crim­son Tide will be looking for tomorrow when Bear Bryant and his charges invade Notre Dame Stadium for the first-ever regular ~cason meeting between Alabama and Notre Dame. 
Vivid in the minds of the Tide are two bowl defeats to Notre Dame, both of which ruined perfect sea­son'> for Alabama and cost them national championships. The first wa., the classic 24-23 Irish Sugar Bowl victory that gave Notre Dame the national title in 1973. The .,ccond was the 1975 Orange Bowl that Ara Parscghian won 13-11 in his tina! game as Notre Dame head coach. 
·'I hope those two games would 
•nakc our tL·am want to win more." Alabama Head Coach Paul "Bear" Br\'ant said. "We've been to the barn twice and got burned." 
The game that particularly stands out for Bryant is the Sugar Bowl meeting. "It was third down and we had 'em on the one-foot line." he recalled. "I thought we had the game won. Then they run a play and I see our cornerback move up and their end comes out. There's the ball in the air and I could have intercepted it. I can't remember the end's name [Robin Weber!. but I believe that it was the only pass he caught in his whole career. It got 'em out of the hole and they won the game." 
Alabama has managed to get themselves out of a hole the past five weeks. After being 2-2 after their first four games. the Tide has come on to win their last five game in a row to up their slate to 7-2. 
"Alabama has been coming along quite well in recent weeks,·~ Notre Dame Head Coach Dan Devine said. "They arc particularly dangerous on the ground with some verv fine runners. With the excellent · backfield depth they have. they just keep coming at you all day. That really puts a strain on the defense. This is a dangerous football team that can score in a lot of ways. They have two skilled quarterbacks who have special skills. Just look at their slats." 
The statistics that Devine is referring to are those of Tide quarterbacks Jack O'Rcar and Jeff Rutledge. O'Rear is the team's second leading rusher with 539 yards and has scored five touch­downs. On the other hand, Rut­ledge has completed 56 percent of his passes for 675 yards and five more touchdowns. O'Rear plays in running situations and Rutledge plays in passing situations. To­gether they've combined for 1,316 yards in total offense and 11 touchdowns. 
"That's a lot of yardage running and passing and a lot of scoring production from quarterbacks," Devine observed. 
Fullback Johnny Davis leads the Alabama ground attack, having gained 574 yards on 100 carries this season and scoring seven touch­downs. It's interesting to note that the determined Davis has not been hit for a loss all season. Halfback Tony Nathan has added 330 yards rushing to the Tide attack thus far this season and is one of five backs to gain over 250 yards on the season. 
Ozzic Newsome is Alabama's leading receiver with 15 receptions for 324 yards. Wide receiver Thad Flanagan has caught 13 passes for 206 vards. 
ln. their last five games, the Tide offense has been in high gear, outscoring opponents 130-58. 
.. 
The line is th:'! mainstay of the Tide defense.' Tackle Charlie Han­nah leads the team in stops with 73. He is followed by the other tackle, 
.. Cagers to play 
The Notre Dame basketball team will hold their first inter-squad scrimmage tonight at 8 p.m. on the main floor of the ACC. There is no admission charge. 

Luther Bradley and the rest of the Notre Dame defense will need to be in top form if the Irish are 
to beat Alabama tomorrow. (Photo by Tony Chifari.) 
Bob Baumhower, with 67. Hannah and a punt on the season. has made eight tackles behind the Notre Dame will be forced to line for losses totalling 17 yards, regroup for tomorrow's contest while Baumhower has made seven after last week's crushing defeat at stops behind the line totalling 41 the hands of Georgia Tech that took yards. Altogether, 'Bama defen-the Irish out of contention for a ders have made 57 tackles behind major bowl bid. Entering the game. the line totalling 295 yards in losses the Notre Dame defense had for opponents. allowed only 98 yards rushing per 
Colcnzo Hubbard has two pass game to opponents, but Tech interceptions to lead the Tide in managed a shocking 368 yards on that category. Allman and Murray the ground. In the second half Legg both have one interception. alone. tne Yellow Jackets ran for 
Alabama even boasts a kick 202 yards against the Irish. blocking specialist. Mike Kramer, On offense, AI Hunter was the who starts at free safety, has leading ball carrier for Notre blocked two field goals attempts Dame, but could only gain 19 yards
Fred Herbst 

Last week's college football action didn't do much to clear the bowl 
picture. Notre Dame was bounced from the bowl scene. losing to an 
inspired Georgia Tech team. Michigan was upset by Purdue, thus 
allowing Ohio State to re-enter contention for a major bowl bid. 
The Rose Bowl shapes up to be the winner of the Southern Cal-UCLA 
game against the Michigan-Ohio State victor. The Cotton Bowl will 
probably field Texas Tech against the runner-up in the Pac 8 or the 
runner-up in the Big Ten. Georgia will most likely play Maryland or the 
Big Ten runner-up in the Sugar Bowl. Tony Dorsett and his Pitt Panthers 
will almost certainly meet the Big Eight champ (whoever that may be) in 
the Orange Bowl. 

Pittsburgh looks to be the favorite for the national championship, but if 
they falter (watch for Penn State), the Rose Bowl will be for the national 
crown. 

Tomorrow's games probably won't help in clearing the bowl picture, 
but will provide an interesting preview to college football's big day next 
Saturday. 

So with the help of Paul "The Gridiron Guru" Stevenson, here are the 
Irish Eye's picks for this weekend: 

Georgia at Auburn: The Bulldogs rebounded from a 21-point deficit last 
week to comeback and beat Florida to practically clinch the conference 
title. They aren't going to be beaten again unless it's in the Sugar Bowl. 
Dogs by 14. Stevenson: Auburn by 3. 
Syracuse at Boston College: BC has been up and down all season. The 
Orange began showing signs of life before dropping their last two 
outtings. Syracuse's Frank Maloney needs this one to keep his job. Look 
for the Orange by a Dave Jacobs'tield goal. Stevenson: BC by 3. 
Dartmouthat Princeton:My East Coast scout Tracey Harden is convinced that the Big Green are just too powerful for the once-great Tigers. Look for Greg Robinson to do the job as Dartmouth wins by 7. Stevenson: Big Green by 7. Georgia Tech at Navy: As Notre Dame can tell you, these teams are better than their records indicate--at least the Irish hope they are. Navy came close. Tech did it. Pepper Rodgers makes the Yellow Jackets a threat all the time. But Nayy's George Welsh is seldom outdone. In a battle of two of the nation's outstanding coaches (both with disappointing records) it should be Tech by 5. Stevenson: Ramblin' 'Reck by 3. Yale at Harvard: The Ivy League isn't much, but I'd like to see this one. Harvard is coached by the father of Notre Dame's Joe Restic and should be ready to take another title. Harvard should win the game and the Ivy League Championship by 7. Stevenson: Harvard by 2. Ulinois at Michigan: It's going to be a long day for the Illini. Michigan is none too pleased with last week's game with Purdue and are looking to prove that it was a fluke. The Wolverines want to be in high gear for their battle with Ohio State next Saturday and are going to warm up at the expense of the IIIini. Michigan by 28. Stevenson: Michigan by 24. 
C. W. Post at Lehigh: The Engineers lost a hearbreaker to Virginia last week by a single point. and need a win to set themselves straight. With Rob Gardner leading the offense and John Matt anchoring the defense, Lehigh should roll. Lehigh by 17. Stevenson: Engineers by 7. Kent State at Miami [Ohio]: Former-Domer Art Best got the Golden Flashes moving last week before leaving the game with an injury. The Redskins finally looked like the team people thought they would be last week as they rolled over Western Michigan. Maybe they have it together; in the second half against the Tech defense. In fact, the entire team could only manage 21 yards rush­ing in the second half last week. 
In the past two games the Notre Dame defense has allowed a total of 717 yards total offense and six touchdowns after recording 21 consecutive quarters without per­mitting a touchdown. Offensively, the Iri:>h have scored only three points the the second half of the last three games. 
"We've got to put everything back in order," Devine said. ''I'm sure our players will be ready. This isn't the kind of team that quits on itself and there's too much left to salvage. I know the players will be ready to redeem themselves." 
Notre Dame defensive end Ross Browner tied an Irish season mark against Georgia Teck as he made his 18th and 19th tackles-for-loss this season. The mark of 19 was established by Jim Stock in 1974. 
AI Hunter now has 11 touch­downs this season, just three shy of the modern era season standard set 

-by Bob Gladieux in 1968. Hunter has 725 yards rushing on the year and needs 203 yards in the remain­ing three games to set a new single-season rushing mark. Marty Schwartz's 927 yards in the 1930 season is the current record. Alabama will be making their first tirp to the midwest since 1928 when the Tide lost to Wisconsin 15-0 in Madison. The last time the Crimson Tide played outside the "Old South" was in 1971 when they met Southern Cal in Los Angeles, winning 17-10. Their last venture north of the "Mason-Dixon Line" was in 1946 when they lost to Boston College 13-7 in Boston. Interestingly, Alabama has only played one game in their entire history in snow. Oddly enough. that game was in New Orleans on Jan. 1, 1964, when they upset Mississippi 12-7 on four field goals in the Sugar Bowl. That was the 1963 team that Joe Namath was suspended from for the final game. Notre Dame is 3-1 against South­eastern Conference opponents. The Irish met Lousiana State in 1970 and 1971, winning 3-0 and losing 28-8 in the only other action with SEC teams. Kickoff is set for 12:50. The game will be televised regionally by ABC and will be broadcast o~ the Mutual Radio Network by Don Criqui and Pat Sheridan. WSND­AM will also broadcast the tilt. 
~=====================================::::::::::::=:=:::::=:::=:=:::=================:::=:::=======:::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:==========================================================:============================================ 
Football Predictions 
:====::::::========================================================================================================================================================================================================================~=========================== The Irish Eye
better late than never. 
Miami (o.) by 4. Stevenson: Redskins by 3. Ohio State at Minnesota: Woody's had a rough season, but with Michigan losing last week he's suddenly back in the thick of things. It's doubtful that the Bucks will be looking ahead to next week knowing what happened to Michigan against Purdue. Buckeyes by 17. Stevenson: OSU by 17. West Virginia at Pittsburgh: Act X of the Tony Dorsett show takes place tomorrow. The only problem with the story is that every act ends the same-with Pitt winning. Panthers by 10. Stevenson: Pitt by 14. Wake Forest at South Carolina: The Gamecocks are looking toward the Peach Bowl and Wake Forest isn't going to stand in their way. Carolina is building an excellent football program and should finish the campaign with an 8-3 mark. Look for the Gamecocks to win by 14. Stevenson: Carolina by 14. Rutgers at Tulane: Rutgers is one of six undefeated teams in the nation and owns the longest winning streak in the country. But like their basketball team last winter, no one believes they're for real. This week should tell. Tulane by 5. Stevenson: Rutgers by 10. SMU at Texas Tech: Tech is another oJf the six undefeated teams in the country, and they'll probably go into the Cotton Bowl that way. SMU hasn't much to offer against the strong Red Raiders. Texas Tech by 7. Stevenson: Tech by 10. Alabama at Notre Dame: The long-awaited rematch of the two classic bowl meetings has finally reached us. Val Zurblis has been picking the Irish for this column each of the last six games, compiling a 5-1 mark, and she readily. admits that this is her toughest pick. "The Irish had better pray for snow," she says. "They can win without it , but it'll be tough. The cold is a key factor." The other key factor will be for the Irish to get a good start, since they've been having trouble in the second half lately. Based on that she makes it Irish by 6.Stevenson: Notre Dame by 6. UPSET OF THE WEEK Missouri at Oklahoma: Both have 3-2 conference records, trailing Nebraska by a game. Oklahoma plays the Huskers next week and needs to win tomorrow and next week to take a share of the title. The Tigers hope is that they win tomorrow and then Oklahoma beats Nebraska next week, thus giving them a share of the title. Watch for the Tigers to catch the Sooners looking ahead to next week. Missouri by 6. Stevenson: Sooners by 14. 
Last week: 8-7, 53 pet.; Guest Picker Frank Walters: 11-4, 73 pet. 
*Observer 
Sports 









