--~~ ----------­
~---------------------~--------------------------~-----------------.. 
by Marti Hogan ing program. She explained cap­profession," she said. dent nurses were capped by Mar­St. Mary's Editor ping signifies the student has The Florence Nightingale pledge tucci and then took the pledge. 
St. Mary's nursing department achieved a point in her education is a traditional part of the capping "This is the greatest moment of held its second capping ceremony where she is ready to go into ceremony as a "vow to fulfill" as it my college life," stated Ann Jen­
Friday, Oct. 15, capping 46 junior nursing. applies to moral and personal kins. one of the nurses capped. nursing students in the Church of "The first nursing class accepted beliefs. Mary Broderick. another nursing Loretto. the challenge of designing and Fr. James Zatko of campus student, said. ''I've never been so 
The student nurses began their defining what kind of cap they ministry gave a "short sermon" excited in my entire life.·· 
St. Mary's 
junior 
clinical program six weeks ago. wanted,'' she said. She added that relating to these beliefs. He stated President John Duggan com­"Since then we've lived and an apt description of this year's the students were entering the mented, "It was a beautiful and breathed nursing," said Mary Car­class "is we're number two: we try medical profession "at a most moving ceremony. typical of St. son, student nurse, in her welcom­harder." difficult time as Catholics and Mary's students."

nursing 
ing speech. She expressed confi­Martucci also explained the sig­Christians.'' Broderick explained the reason­dence that the student nurses are nificance of the cap. ''The cap is He cited the "problem" of ing behind holding the ceremony now ''able to go out of ourselves not merely the mar~ of identifi­abortion as an example. "You will on the weekend starting the Octo­and reach out to others. We still cation or profession," she said. be expected in light of dedication ber break. "We wanted a weekend have so much to learn but our According to Martucci, the cap has and moral convictions to stand that would giv~ parents from background is solid. Capping is just stood as the symbol of the Florence against it," he stressed, "although everywhere a reason to come. Most another step," she explained. Nightingale Pledge that the nurses it will not be an easy task." He of the parents had to come anyway 
students 

capped 
"Capping historically has repre­take. However, "it has lost its concluded with a blessing saying to pick up the students... she said. sented a transition p,eriod for the profound meaning over the years. "It's always you and God and She added that the parent~ were student nurse," said Sr. Mary Nevertheless, the cap still retains everything is possible." also able to attend the Notre Martucci, chairperson of the nurs-the distinction and respect of the Following the blessing the stu-Dame-Oregon game that weekend. 


server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XI, No. 34 Tuesday, October 26, 1976 

Committee examines shuttlebus service 
After this two-day study theby Kathy McEntee committee compared the re~ultsStaff Reporter with the actual schedule and were 
Everyone knows that the shuttle­"pretty surprised" to find that the bus never sticks to the schedule shuttlebus was "running pretty and rarely runs on time, right? To effectively." according to Cawley. investigate these inefficiencies fo Thi.JUgh the committee realized the shuttlebus system, a joint that the results could have been committee of the Notre Dame and due to mere luck. they concluded Saint Mary's student governments that it is more likclv that the conducted a survey on Oct. 12 and schedule is being foliowcd more 13 which resulted. in some surpri­closely than most people think. sing findings. Cawley commented "generally the 
This joint committee. consisting buses were running on time· and of Tim Cawley. committee chair­going where they were supposed to man. Rick Littlefield. Coex com­be going." missioner. Patty Shields. of St. The committee had originally Man·'s and Marv Lou Bilek. SMC thought most of the problems student body pre-sident. was aware would be with the drivers but the of the numerous complaints about survey showed "they were doing the shuttlebus which had been what they were supposed to--for directed to the Ombudsman and instance they were waiting for SI\1C Student Government. Before passengers arriving late.·· Cawley approaching the transit co.mpany stated. with new proposals they wanted to Besides conducting the survey. find out the specific problems with the committee formulated other 
by the ND-SMC student government. the existing schedule. plans to improve the shuttlebus 
Fifteen people from the Ombud­service. They intend to post signs sman staff took shifts riding on the and a schedule at all of the bus shuttlebus. recording the stops and stops as an aid to the students. A noting the times of arrivals and copy of the schedule . which will be departures. They were specifically re-publicized in the Observer. will

Conmen exploit bicentennial 
looking for unusual occurances, be handed to all St. Mary's such as drivers taking breaks that students. DETROIT -P.T. Barnum said began taking reservations for a in Philadelphia on July 4, 1776. 
were too long or leaving astop The committee will still meet there was one born every minute, Bicentennial cruise. The New York The bottle was old and green and before all passengers were aboard. !continued to page 31 
so it .shouldn't come as any attorney general's office cracked looked handblown and could be shock that there are a great many down on the Virginia-based com­purchased for $50. Any alert cus­American fish ready to be parted pany, when it learned the reserva­tomer should have realized that from their money in this Bicenten­tions were for a cruise aboard the the whole situation seemed nial year. S.S. United States, a former luxury "smelly," but apparently there 
But two Detroit bank auditors, 
were enough suckers to keep him in who spent a great deal of their time business. studying swindlers and warning Slim is "In" and the diet craze is their customers, say the guile of national in scope and so are the the Bicentennial con men would efforts of a rip-off artist in one of astound even the great Barnum. the Southern states. He has been 
"The swindlers have come up advertising ''Lose 17.76 pounds the with more 'patriotic' ways of revolutionary way in two weeks.'· ripping people off than Branum But medical authorities are ques­ever dreamed of," says David tioning the safety of the hormone Westhoff, vice president of audit­. he is using. 
ing at Detroit Bank & Trust. Many people have become quite "The trouble is, people keep skillful at colonial crafts and have 
trying to get something for gone into business selling their nothing," says his assistant, Bill wares. Having a place to exhibit Kalmar. 
their wor.ks of art seems to be a Unfortunately, the Patrick Henry continual problem for some, but approach to a Bicentennial bargain not for the swindler. A promoter may turn out to be a Benedict was recently charged with fraud by Arnold fraud in disguise. the Philadelphia District Attorney's ''Most of the schemes have office for taking $1,800 in deposits obviously been used before,,. says for nonexistent space at a "Bicen­
W esthof, .''but with a little old­tennial Arts and Crafts Exhibi­fashioned ingenuity, the con man liner which has been in moth balls tion,'' he claimed to have under has revolutionized the swindle to since 1969. development. 
give it that 'Spirit of 76' appeal." "Any one of these schemes with Working through law enforce­Whiff of the Past a little old-fashioned crooked in­ment agencies around the nation, genuity can be modified, expanded 
Westhoff and Kalmar have compil­What better way to commemor­and given the Hollywood treat­ed a file of every Bicentennial ate our heritage than to take a ment," Westhoff says, "So that swindle they could get their hands breath of air from those days of unless you are extremely careful, on. Here are but a few: yesteryear? In New York City, a you'll wind up another statistic in 
Travel to historic places is always con artist was selling bottles of air the thousands of slick schemes popular. So one enterprising outfit that he claimed had been "corked" pulled off every day." 


-·­
Tuesday, October 26, 1976
the observer 

~--News Briefs--""""' 
I:=========International 
Arabs approve peace plan 
CAIRO -Arab leaders endorsed a peace plan for war-battered Lebanon yesterday despite objections from Iraq over the makeup of the 30,000-man force intended to monitor the cease-fire. An Arab League spokesman said the opening session of an Arab summit meeting had approved the plan to end the fighting reached by six involved Arab leaders a week ago in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. 

lfjritish pound nosedives 
LONDON·-The British pound nosedived to record lows against the 
U.S. dollar and other major currencies yesterday, posing a new threat to Britain's crippled economy and the Labor government. 
In a wave wild selling on the London foreign exchange that lasted just over an hour, the pound plunged 7 1/2 cents to $1.5730 -an all-time low. 


t:::=====================National More people missing 
LULING, La. -The number o.f persons missing from last week's ferry-tanker collision in the Mississippi River rose from 75 to 100 on Monday. and Gov. Edwin Edwards asked for a panel of marine law experts to look into the disaster. Divers have recoved 58 bodies ­two of them unidentified and believed to be among the 44 listed as missing -and 33 vehicles. Eighteen persons survived. 
----On Campus Today__. 
12:15 pm lecture. "boccaccio: the implications of binary 

7:15pm 7:30pm 7:30pm 
7:30pm 
7:30pm ~ 10 pm 
8 pm 
8 pm form" by prof. walter davis, n.d. room 220, 

o'shaughnessy hall. sponsored by the P.nglish dept. 
meeting. information meeting on cardiopulmonary 
resuscitation. rotc bldg. room 217. 
panel discussion. "the majestic .clockwork" with 
gary m. gutting, n.d. library lounge. 
charismatic prayer meeting. Iafortune student 
center, rm 2d. 

speech. nd varsity basketball coach "digger" phelps. alumni hall lounge. 
film. "our hospitality" directed by buster keaton. 
engineering aud. sponsored by cinema '77. tickets 
$1. 

lecture. "recent developments in eastern europe" by prof. friedrich· e. prinz, univ. of munich. area studies reading room 1201, library. 
reading series. the really good fiction reading series 
present  carol  eschwiller,  author  of  joy  in  our  
cause, reading  from  her  own  fiction.  special  
collections room, library.  

9 pm  film. "whatever happened to little theater. tickets: $.75.  baby jane?"  smc  
9 pm  slide presentation. an introduction hockey season by rick schafer, asst. pangborn chapel.  to the '76-'77 hockey coach.  
0 pm  meeting. knights of columbus in council chambers. refreshments will be served.  

Hayride planned 
The Senior Class is sponsoring a 
hayride and halloween party, Thur­
sday October 28 from 9pm to 1 am. 
The party will be held on a farm in Michigan and there will be a hayride and bonfire. Hot dogs and beer will be served. 
Tickets are $2.50 per person and must be purchased in advance at the dining halls during the evening meals until Thursday night.· Trans­portation will not be provided. A map is included on the back of the ticket. 


NO-Navy tickets now available 
. Anyone who purchased NO-Navy tickets through the Cleveland Club must pick up the tickets today
· h L f
(Tuesday, Oct, 26) tnt e a ortune Ballroom from 12 noon to S pm. 
If a student wishes to sit together with someone else who purchased tickets they must show up together to obtain them. Also, if a student 
wants to pick someone else's tickets, he must present the stu­dent's ID. 
Those who have hotel reserva­tions through the Student· Union 
. ~, 

must aIso be present to I,>(O,.., ~P·.\ · 'irgtit;;· ar~;o reser-v~rd their reservations and party ti'dt-ets:· ·• ·. ·. '•. · · · · · · · · · · · · · 

Night Editor: Debbie Dahrling Asst. Night Editor: Leigh Tu­nakan layout Staff: Tracy McAuliffe, Theresa Richeson, Cindy Me Kiel, Kevin Walsh Editorial layout: Chris Smith Features layout: Tim O'Reiley Sports layout: Ray O'Brien Typists: Kitty Conklin, Susan Shellenburger, Mel Celeste, Morey Blinder Early Morning Typist: Karen Chiames Day Editor: Mary Pat Tarpey Copy Reader: Cathy Nolan Photographer: Dominick Yo­cius 

The Observer" published Monday 
through Fnday and weekly durmg the summer ~essron, except during the exam and vacat1on penods The Observer 1s published by students of the Univers1ty of Notre Dame and St Mary's College Subscnptions 
may be purchased for $20 per year($10 per semester) from The Obser­ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Observer is a member of the AssoCiated Press. All reproduction 



Law Society survey encouraging 
by Patrick Cole Senior Staff Reporter 
In a recent survey by the Notre Dame Law School Placement Of­fice, over 80 percent of the students participation in the survey have found jobs--68 percent throur;}q~ e Law School Placement Offic.... .... J 25 percent through their own efforts. 
The results are tentative since all members of the Class of 1976 have not responded. Twenty-four per­cent of the students have not answered their questionnaires. 
Law firms employed 55 percent 
of last year's graduating class, the most of any type of employer. Twenty-one percent work in state, local and federal branches of the government; 10 percent accepted judicial clerkships and four percent are employed by both corporations-and accounting firms. 
Of those who have accepted an offer for work, a third of them earn between $16,000 and $18,000 as a starting salary. Twenty-one stu­dents are earning between $13,000 and $15,000 in their first year of em employment. Another 15 percent 
are making between $10,000 and • $13,000. 
Eight students or nine percent of the graduating class are earning over $18,000 in their first year of employment. 
High Placement Rate 
According to Mildred Kristowj­ski, placement director of the Notre Dame Law School Placement Of­fice, upon graduating about 80 percent of the law students have found jobs. 
Chicago to host Eagles Nov. 11 
California rock group, The Ea­gles, including new member Joe Walsh, is set for a Thursday Nov. 11 concert at Chicago Stadium, 1800 W. Madison. John David Souther, formerly of the Souther­Hilman-Furay Band, will open the show. 
Tickets for the Nov. 11 Eagles concert in Chicago are available locally at the following River City Review Ticket Outlets: Just for the Record (100Center), Boogie Re­cords, Record Joint (Niles). Sus­pended Chord (Elkhart) and Fan­tasy Records (Benton Harbor). Notre Dame Student union is making plans to charter buses to the Eagles concert. A package ticket will be offered and will include round trip bus transporta­tion and concert ticket. Those interested in the bus trip can sign up at Student Union Ticket Office beginning today. For further information, ca11283-7757. 
FAST TYPEWRITER 
REPAIR 


fH:I:ijl·l 

2915 Mishawaka Ave. 


Uhe VPinO.fammer 
CREATIVE HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES 
RElAXING ATMOSPHERE 
FREE HAm ANALYSIS RK RETAIL CENTER 


1637 LWW 
so. Bend 
232-6622 
Appt. only. 
,·, 
·' 

..................... 
"We place better than a lot of other schools," Kristowski stated. Last year in the Class of 1975, 88 percent of the 107 students found employment. 
During the past year, almost 100 

interviewers  visited  the  Notre  
Dame  Law  School  to  look  for  
employees.  This  includes  law  

firms, government agencies and corporations from Sept. 22, 1975 to May 6, 1976. 
In addition, 220 employers con­tacted the Law School Placement Office requesting that interested students send resumes. 
Employers Speak Out 
Interviewers come from all over the country to talk to Notre Dame law students about employment possibilities. In October, the interviewers have come from Los Angeles, Phoenix, Atlanta, Dallas and Miami as well as those from 
the Midwest and the East Coast. In fact, many prestigious firms come to Notre Dame such as Shearman and Sterling, a Wall Street-based firm and Jones, Day, Reavis and Pogue, a law firm in Washington D.C. 

John A. McLeod, an interviewer from Jones and Day, talked about the qualities he looks for in a Notre Dame law student. "There are a number of things we look for: a sense of maturity and responsibil­ity, common sense, the ability to get along with others and the ability to solve complicated prob­lems," McLeod indicated. 
McLeod, a 1969 graduate of the Notre Dame Law School, empha­sized the need for a lawyer to be able to express himself and a "sense of purpose. of knowing where they are going." 
David Minnick, an interviewer form Lillick, McHose, and Charles, a law firm in Los Angeles, stressed the. need for students to be able to deal with people. Minnick, how­ever, did not base his criteria solely on grades. 
"When you look at the overall picture, a low grade average may be a good one when seeing the other factors involved," he said. 
In evaluating students for em­ployment, "law firms are going to the second-year-student summer internship or summer associate to see how promising a student's potential may be," according to Robert McCartney, an interviewer from Eckert, Seamans, Cherin and Mellot law firm in Pittsburgh. 
"When you have this refer­ence," McCartney pointed out, ''this is better than how a student does in school. If I talk to a student who doesn't have internship exper­ience, then we have to look at his grades," he said. 
/' ~~ ¢(' 
TO LOOK YOURs~~(!>.... BEST TRY US. 
Mon-Sat 9-9 

PLUS PARTS, MOST CARS 
SPECIALISTS IN ENGINE TUNE-UP, BRAKES, AIR-CONDITIONING Vz BLOCK SOUTH OF MISHAWAKA K-MART 
•m•

.,,. 259-6391
IIANKAMERICARO 

OPEN MON.-SAT. 8-5 


Acareer in law­
without law school. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the seven courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 1600 graduates in law firms, banks, and corporations in over 75 cities. 
If you are a senior of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant, we'd like to meet you. . ·--• ~­
Contact your placement office for an interview with 

our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 Operated by Para-legal, Inc. 
... /'. .'·.~./· 
f , ' -'·""· ---..
--L---­


-~-----­
Tuesday, October 26, 1976 the observer
Decision '76 
Candidates make last minute election efforts 
by Richard Pyle Associated Press Writer 

President Ford, stressing econ­omic themes in this last pre-elec­tion visit to crucial California and other Western states, promised Monday to hold down federal spending because it contributes to inflation that is ''just another high tax." 
He also d..:clared during a visit to Seattle, a city troubled by high unemployment, that his recent proposal to require aircraft noise reduction would result in 250,000 
new jobs for the aircraft construc­tion industrv. 
In Plains: Ga., Democrat Jimmy Carter made preparations for his own coast-to-coast trip that will keep him moving in search of vo~es until the eve of the electiOn showdown with Ford on Nov. 2. 
Aides to Carter said the Demo­cratic nominee would issue a statement on the environment be­fore his scheduled departure for South Carolina and Illinois Tuesday morning. 
He will visit eight states, includ­
ing six of the largest where 
strategists for both campaigns believethe electionmay be decided. Pol_ls show Carter slightly ahead slightly behind or running neck­and-neck with Ford in these areas. 
These states include California, New York, Illinois, Ohio, Pennsyl­vania, and Texas. Fora is covering much of the same ground on a campaign-closing barnstorming tour which -like Carter's -is accompanied by a media blitz of radio and television appearances. 
Live programs 

Ford, touring California on Sun­the experience to merit voter approva, Ford argued that Carter would imperil United States secur­ity by slashing $5 billion to $7 billion from the defense budget -a measure that the Democrat insists can be carried out simply by cutting waste. 
Ford said, "I don't challenge Mr. Carter's good intentions but I do challenge his programs.'' 
In a speech to be braodcast on the Mutual radio network, the President promised to restrain federal spending because it con­tributes to inflation. "I don't believe the American people inflation is just another high tax," he declared. 
Ford cited Department of Labor consumer price index figures show­ing that during his administration. the annual rate of inflation has dropped from 12 percent to les-s than 6 percent. 
The vice-presidential candidate~ were campaigning in the North­east. Democratic Sen. Walter F. Mondale moving from talk~ with Pennsvlvania steelworker'> to Nc.:" Jersey and Republican Sen. Bob Dole visited Providence. R.I.. up­state New York and Pcnn'>yh ania after an overnight vi'>it to Bangor 
day appeared on statewide televi­
should be taxed any more and and Presque 1-;le. Maine. 
sion in a campaign-sponsored "interview" with sports broadcas­
.-----------------------­
ND site of alcohol seminar 1 The Student Players --­
ter Joe Garagiola, who is a Ford 
~ 
volunteer. Similar live programs
by Kathy Mills You's which uses a W.C. Fields 
& ND Social Commission presents:
are planned as Ford visits four and
News Editor cartoon to provide basic informa­
~' 
perhaps five other major states.
tion about alcohol and drinking. 1 Emphasizing a theme that his
Notre Dame Student Govern­t Jacque Brei Is Alive And Well
McCabe said she hopes to -show 
administration has the record ·and
ment and the Office of Student films such as Booze and You's at Affairs will co-sponsor an '·alcohol the seminar. She also noted the 
t. And living In Paris
awareness" seminar, Fri., Nov. S seminar will be the occasion of the and Sat., Nov. 6, in the Moreau distribution of the finished edition Bus survey taken ~ by Blau and Shuman. Music ,1 Seminary. Mary Clare McCabe, of The Whole College Cataloguedirector of student development, 
about Drinking, an idea book t By Jacque Brei 1' 
has announced. !continued from page ll I I
containing informati_pn on various 
The conference will be invitation­with the transport company Cawley 1 ~ 
ways of dealing with alcohol con­
al, McCabe noted, and will involve noted. "because everything looks 1 At LaFortune Rathskellar, The Nazz ,
ference. 

hall rectors, one resident assistant good and we don't have any I , ~ 
The seminar will run from 1 to S
from each hall. all hall presidents specific bones to pick. we will once t admission: $1 .00 ,
p.m. on Nov. S, with a dinner 1
and hall social" commissioners and again stress to them the need to • other people from student govern­following the session in faculty impress their drivers with the ,I ment. dining room in the South, Dining importance of following the sched-time: 8:30pm • 
The seminar is a follow-up on the Hall ; and from 9 a.m. to noon on· ule since the students depend on ~ ,• Nov. 6.
alcohol conference, "University SO r---------~-----------------it_._..__________________________ ____________________________ __________ __ ______
._--_~~--~~ -----.--.. -. -.-_------~-.--~_. .---_--_~ 
+ 12; A Fresh Look at the Old Sauce," held in the Center for Continuing Education last year and 
RECIEVER COMPARISON CHART 
invoh:ing student and staff repre­
Continuous Frequency FM
sentatives from 63 colleges. 
Minimum Response Totsl FM Alternste Number Number Number RMS/ (Power Band Harmonic Sensitivity Channel of of of 
111 
.., 

Chsnnel Width) Distortion (In Micro-Selectivity Phono Recorder Spe1ker
"We're trying to replicate, in a 
RMS LIST 
.!:! go 
Brand Model At 8 Ohms (in Hertz)" (%)" Volts) (in Decibles Inputs Outputs P1lrs

smaller way, for our people and our 
~: ~-----L------~(~In~W~a~t~ts~)·~=-~-.--+~~---4~~----~~~~+------4r-------t-~·---;
halls, the seminar that was here 
PRICE PRICE 
The wider The lowllf The lower The higher 
What to look for 

last year," McCabe explained. the bettllf the better the bettllf the betler 
conference and have been part of 1------+-----~ Eo -----------­
----1c-----------------~ 
430.00
special programs on alcohol aware­
530.00 £g Kenwood KR7600 

80 20-20000 .3 1.7 80 ·2 2 3 
----1--··-------------------+----­
ness. Engs, for example, has done ~---------+--------~ ------­
450.00 
550.00 Marantz 22506 

50 20-20000 .25 1.9 65 1 2 2
a 13-minute film entitled Booze and •'The students who attended the 
~----15_5_.o_o_-+---1-90_._oo__~~~ 
Kenwood

conference last year decided it had 
an impact on them and we decided 
160.00 
Pioneer to replicate that." According to the invitational 
200.00 
200.00

160.00 
E en 

Sansui letter for the awareness seminar, ~-------+---------1 e.,.. 140.00 
LL..,.. 
Technics
170.00

the seminar will provide an oppor­
~---------+---------r--~­
tunity for the participants to talk 
185.00 
Technics
230.00

and share ideas and to learn more 
about alcohol--what it is, how it 
199.00 
2!>u.OO 

Marantz acts and the national issue its ~-----+-------1~o 0 ~ 
250.00

199.00
abuse presents. The participants 
Kenwood may also have a chance to examine 
199.00 
2!>0.UU 
Pioneer

their own drinking attitudes and 
r-------+----------iEII)
behavior. 
199.00 
250.00 
e10 
Sherwood

McCabe said several people .from r---------~-------~1.1..,.. outside the University will attend 
300.00

240.00 
Technics the seminar to talk about their angles of involvement in alcohol 
300.00 

Kenwood awareness. 
240.00 
240.00 
300.00 
~g 
Pioneer

Keith Hewitt from the National 
r----------+--------~ M
Clearinghouse for Alcohol Infor­
360.00

290.00 
Kenwood 

mation will give the picture of alcohol abuse on a national level 
330.00 400.00 Technics and on a college level, McCabe 1--------+--------+E o noted. Ruth Engs and Ralph Larson r---3-3o_._oo__~_4_o_o._o_o_-f.t ~Pioneer both from Indiana University, will 
370.00 
450.00 Marantz

talk about their projects at Indiana 
University and two people from the 
370.00 450.00 Kenwood residence hall program at Michigan 
r--,-3-99-.-oo--+---5-o-o.-o-o_........,~ g Te~hni~s
State will speak on what they have 
"'t

been doing at Michigan State. 
430.00 ~ 530.00 Sansui
All these people, McCabe point­ed out, were present at last year's 
410.00 500.00 Pioneer 



-arm ... 
Barber & Hair 
a 

Style Shop Open six days a · week 
Sat a to 3:00 1437 
N. Ironwood South Bend .

Appoin~mentonlyo 
277-0615 Q 

!------~---,---+-----+--------~--------~-----· -----+-----+---:-.---~---­495.00 600.00 ~ 8 Pioneer SX950 
"85 20-20000 .1 1.8 80 2 2 3 
-------.... -­500.00 
r-------+------1 ., ---------­
750.00 Sansui 9090 

110 20-20000 .2 1.7 85 1 2 3 
-

530.00 
75 20-20000 .25 1.9 80 2 2 t------+------40 0 
650.00 E Marantz 2275 120 20-20000 .1 1.8 80 2 2 3575.00 700.00 .l: ~ Pioneer SX1050 

t---------+--------+-----t ---­
500.00 750.00 o g Kenwood KR9400 
120 20-20000 .1 1.7 80 2 2 3 t------+----------tt-U) ---------.. -· 
600.00 800.00 Technics SA5760 165 2020000 .08 1.8 80 2 2 2 
650.00 
900.00 E 0 Pioneer SX1250 160 20-20000 .1 1.5 83 2 2 3 

t------~----~ eo ---------­
650·00 800.00 LL. 10 Marantz 2325 125 20·20000 .15 1.8 80 1 2 2 
"WHERE HEARING IS BELIEVING" 
~,==

32l_S. MAIN DOWNTOWN ~~~~~-=-­NE.XT TO INDIANA BELL 1 -~rr1~ 288-1681 ;~ti~~ 
KR2600 

15 20-20000 .8 2.5 50 2 
--·-­
20-20000 1 2
SX450 

15 .5 2.0 60 
12 40-20000 1.0 2.5 60 1 2
331 
SA5060 

12 140-20000 .9 2.0 55 1 1 
25 30-20000 .5 1.9 70 1 1 2
SA5160 

15 40-20000 .8 2.2 50 1 2
22158 
KR3600 

22 20-20000 .8 2.3 60 1 2 
20 20-20000 .3 2.0 60 1 2
SX550 
S71108 

20 40-20000 .8 2.0 60 1 1 2 
SA5360 

38 20-20000 .3 1.9 70 1 1 2 
KR4600 

30 20-20000 .5 1.8 80 2 2 2 
SX650 

35 20-20000 .3 1.9 60 2 2 
KR5600 

40 20,20000 .5 1.8 80 2 2 2 
SA5460 

65 20-20000 .1 1.8 70 1 2 2 
50 20-20000 .1 1.9 80 1 2 2
SX750 
-
22358 

35 20·20000 .25 1.9 65 1 2 2 
KR6600 

60 20-20000 .3 1.7 80 2 2 3 
SA5560 

85 20-20000 .1 1.8 70 1 2 2 
1070 

60 , 20-20000 .3 1.8 80 2 2 2 
SX850 

65 20-20000 .1 1.8 80 2 2 2 

Close to Campus -~. _. _L-,--------~O~P~_E~N~1~2~-~-~3~0~-6~D~A~I~L~Y~---J~:A~UI1Dilal~~~"'~t-~·-~~·~:-~::_::j·:. :
' 
•· 

*The Observer 
anindependentstudentnewspaper serving notre llame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as-accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the commun1ty, and letters are encouraged to promote the free Pxprp~sion of varying opinions on campus. 
Business Manager Tom Fronczak Advertising Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor Tony Chifari Production Manager Martha L. Fanning 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Phones:. (219) 283-8661 [NO) (219) 284-5365 [SMC] 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

Thomas O'Neil  Editor-in-Chief  
Dan Sanchez  Managing Editor  
Chris Smith  Asst. Managing Ed.  
Cregg Bangs  Executive Editor  
Val Zurblis  -Executive Editor  
Pat Hanifin  Editorial Editor  
Bob Mader  Exec. News Editor  
Maureen Flynn  Campus Editor  
Marti Hogan  St  Mary's Editor  
Don Reimer  Copy Editor  
Tim O'Reiley  Features Editor  
Fred Herbst  Sports Editor  

Tuesday, October 26, 1976 

P. 0. BoxQ 
WSND-FM: A dangerous precedent 
Dear Editor: 
The administration of the Uni­versity has established a dangerous precedent. Since its inception, the student workers at WSND-FM have had complete control of all programming and policy decisions. We have recently been informed, however, that this is merely an illusion. 
Last week, we at WSND received a request from an administrator that our FM station not carry Notre Dame Hockey games. Through a bureaucratic grapevine we were to find out that this request was, in fact, an ultimatum. Had WSND­FM gone through with its original intention to broadcast Notre Dame Hockey games we would have faced personnel removal and se­vere budget cuts. 
For the first time in the station's history, we have been the victims of censorship. The administration has, in effect, told us that we may do as we please; as long as what we do pleases them. We at WSND feel that this precedent destroys the value of the station to the student staff and their audience. 
The Provost of the University maintains that the University has always had the power to establish station policy, because it is the station's licensee. Why didn't they exercise this option six years ago when WSND-FM began to cover Notre Dame Hockey? Father Burtchaell's reply to this question was that the University was un­aware of our broadcast­ing of hockey games. This, to us, is a definite indication that control of the station has been in student hands. But, the University ad­ministration has taken it upon itself to stifle the diversity which has been a traditional part of WSND­FM's programming. 
As station manager, I have reluctantly decided to yield to the pressu;e exerted by the adminis­tration. Quite frankly, they've got us by the budget! 

Dominick D. Fanuele 
Station Manager, WSND 

On behalf of the WSND Editor­Ial Board 
Supports 
WSND-FM 
Dear Editor: 
As a graduate of Notre Dame (class of '73) and an alumnus of WSND, serving as news director for two years, I feel compelled to express my opinion of the adminis­tration's recent decision to stop WSND-FM from broadcast­ing hockey games. 
The move was ill-advised for a number of reasons. First of all, for many years the students at WSND have had control of the format and content of WSND's programming, even though the station's license is held by the University. Now that the University feels that students are not intelligent enough to pro­gram WSND-FM, it would not surprise me if students start losing interest in the formerly student-run station. I. know that when I was news director we aired a number of stories which made the administra­tion unhappy. Ifthe University had ever stepped in and overruled our judgment as to what belonged on the air, I would have left WSND and let the University officials try and run a radio station. 
The fact is that WSND-FM has carried some hockey games for the past five years, although last year may have been the first time that the whole schedule was carried. How can the administration now step in and say that hockey does not belong on WSND-FM? The station has always strived to be an alternative to other area radio stations. It has been a very good alternative, providing class­ical music, jazz. bluegrass, and, yes, hockey. 
I'm afraid that I am grasping for some sort of written eloquence, unsuccessfully. But it makes me angry that the University would so seriously damage a long standing tradition of alternative pro­gramming on WSND-FM. Al­though I was never involved with The Observer, I would think it prudent for you people of the print media to watch out. · 
David M. Barrett 
South Bend, Ind. 
Hates Pro-Lifers 
Dear Editor: 

I am disgusted with those who call themselves Pro-Life. Harass­ing the candidates, picketing . at rallies, and slandering those who disagree with their own views by calling them "murderers", they have attempted to bring into the Presidential campaign an issue which is a moral issue, not an election issue. Why harass the Presidential candidates for an a­mendment? Congress and the STares are responsible for amend­ments. The President has little to do with the process. And even if he had, it is still a moral issue. Being a moral issue, it is only up to the individual to decide right and wrong. No one can judge another's moral values. Because, simply, morals are an individual affair. 
Abortion is a moral issue. It is up to the mother to decide if she wishes to bear the child. After all, she has to bear it, give labor for it, and care for the child most of its life; she does, not the bishops. Shouldn't she be the one who should decide whether or not she wished to bear it? 
I may be personally opposed but I will fight forever for the right of a woman to choose. Have anv of the Pro-lifers given considera"tion to the effects upon the country and its people if an amendment were to be passed? Are they naive enough to think that an amendment will abolish all abortions? Instead of being done in a clean hospital room by a competent doctor, the situa­tion will reverse into the twenties with all the splendor of a dirty scalpel in the hands of a backroom butcher. "Morality" may perhaps be high but mortality will be even 
highe~. 

Does Man ever learn? Is history "Watching Carter and Ford is like watching Bugs Bunny and Elmer Fudd!" 

doomed to repeat itself? Once 
before we had a small vocal 
minority impose its morals upon 
the whole nation. The group was 
the temperance union. The act: 
prohibition. The result: Organized 
crime. And this time? 
Paul Herbig 
No more of Mr. Nice Guy 
Dear Editor: 
When I read yesterday's Ob­
server, I noticed that a plurality of 
the student body seems to be 
incline to cast their votes for 
President Ford. This saddens me, 
but does not surprise me given the 
change of attitudes among the 
student body. Still it is not easy for 
me to forget such unpleasantnesses 
as Chicago in 1908, Kent Sate in 
1970, the My Lai massacre, the 
Christmas Bombings of 1972, the 
successful conspiracy to overthrow 
the democratic govern­
ment of Chile, the almost success­
ful conspiracy to overthrow. the 
Constitutions of the United States, 
the gross manipulation of the 
economy to the advantage of the 
great corporations, and the ad­ministration's war a­gainst the young, the black, the poor and the workers. 

President Ford, nice guy that he is, supported Mr. Nixon in all of these policies and has continued those policies. His racism is subtle but obviously there. His high moral call to the white middle class is that they should go and enjoy their affluence like pigs sunning themselves contentedly in the mud. 
His cry in his talk about taxes is that their money should no longer go to the lazy, good for nothing, poor, (i.e. blacks), but instead be used to buy new toys for the Pentagon (i.e. the B-1, nuclear aircraft carriers, etc.) to give us 'security,' as if a few more H­bombs are going to add to our security. 
His answer to energy crisis is to rape nature and have us play Russian Roulette with the gun called 'peaceful' nuclear power. Admittedly Jimmy Carter is a question mark. But there is a slim chance he might be different. Ford offers no hope, unless, of course, you approve of this country's slow drift toward fascism. 
Richard Kane 

seriously folks f.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
What we knOw 
WASHINGTON--As the exciting election campaign comes to a close we must come to the following conclusions. 
Had Gerry Ford chewed gum on the second debate and walked at the same time, he would have never put his foot in his mouth. 
The best' time for Israel to get weapons from the United States is during the last three weeks of the presidential campaign. 
The best time for American farmers to get increased supports for grain is three weeks before the election. 
Vice President Rockefeller points with the wrong finger. 
Jimmy Carter does things in his heart that he could be arrested for if he did them in 30 of the SO states he's been campaigning in. 
President Ford can't balance his checkbook. 
If Ford is elected, he will probably appoint a Polish-Ameri­can to the Supreme Court. 
If Carter is elected, he will pardon the editor of Playboy maga­zine. 
Congress is respons­ible for everything that has gone wrong in the United States since Ford was sworn in as President. 
It doesn't pay to play golf in Washington with a lobbyist. 
The United States, according to President Ford, is respect­ed throughout the world and any­one who says it isn:t is tearing down the United States. 
The United States, according to Jimmy Carter, is ·not respected around the world because Henry Kissinger makes secret promises he never keeps. 
The League of Women Voters is on Eugene McCarthy's enemy list. 



art buchwald 
When someone apologizes for a goof during a presidential cam­paign, it's called a "clarification." 
If Jimmy Carter gets elected, according to President Ford, it will cost the taxpayers (a) $100 billion; 
(b)  $200  billion,  (c)  300 B-1  
bombers.  
President  Ford,  accor5fing  to  

Jimmy Carter, doesn't care about 
(a) people out of work; (b) people in need of health care, (c) lunches for schoolchildren. 
Walter Mondale loves pizza. Robert Dole is crazy about kosher salami. Gerry. Ford could live on sould food. Jimmy Carter has a craving for Mexican tamales. 
President Ford is for increases in oil and gas prices to provide incentives to private industry to see that the American people don't get cold this winter. 
Jimmy Carter is for nuclear energy until we find means of harnessing the sun. 
Never, never tell an ethnic story to John Dean on a plane during a presidential campaign. 
Betty Ford is more popular with the voters than Gerry Ford. Rosalynn Carter is more popular with the voters than Jimmy Carter. 
If Jimmy Carter is elected to the White House, he will rename the presidential yacht the "Maya­guez.'' 
ABC tel~vision needs a new sound system. 
If Jimmy Carter wins, everyone who works for the government will have to go to Sunday school. 
If Ford loses, he plans to write a book.~itle4, "Washington on $5 a Day. 


Tuesday, October 26,1976 


Carter and Playboy 
By Fr. Bill Toohey 
As I walked out of the drugstore with the current issue of Playboy (in a plain paper-bag, thoughtfully provided by a sympathetic clerk), I wondered how many thousands of other non-regular readers would be doing the very 'same thihg, all of them curious to know, "What did Carter really say in that interview, anyway?" 
Rt;;ading the entire text gives a strikingly different impression from what one was , given to expect from the news reports and comments from politicians, editorial writers and religious commentators. As a matter of fact, the effects is so very contr".ry that you become angry that you were victimized by such wholesale distor­tions in the earlier reports. It was like the unfair impressions one got from the pre-publication excerpts from The Final Days that appeared in Newsweek. 
Granted that Carter undoubtedly did a very questionable thing in submitting to an interview in a rag like Playboy (with its ads for ceiling mirrors and advice column on timely topics like sado-masochism), still the person you discover after a careful study of the entire interview is a man of integrity, honesty, humility and authentic religious faith. 
The free-wheeling interview touched almost everything: Vietnam, homosexual­ity, corporations, religion, civil rights, the media, his relationship with his wife, the judges he would appoint, taxes, how he felt about his son fighting in Vietnam, health care, and even the possibility of his own assassination. In all of this, Carter is amazingly forthright and candid. Even though the interview was far-ranging, the Playboy interviewer made sure sex came up again and again and again. And this is where Carter has been catchi~g most of the flack. 
What Carter really did was to offer a fairly standard explanation of his Baptist faith. He gave a solid exposition of the 
Concerts 
Christian teaching about forgiveness and humility. He tried to explain to his questioners that, as president, he would not be self-righteous, puritanical or reli­giously intolerant. H~ offered an extem­poraneous version of the Pharisee and Publican parable, and an interpretation of the teachings o'f Jesus, as contained in the fifth chapter of St. Matthew. 
The governor really wasn't trying to make a major point about sex at .all; he was more deeply concerned, you learn, about demonstrating that the basic Christian message is that we are not "saved" by moral performance but by God's grace. Carter did no more than admit that he is like the rest of us, a sinner. He acknowledged that he is sorry for the mistakes of his life; he affirmed that he attempts to live an exemplary life; he is certain that in the love of the Lord we are able to find forgiveness for our sins; and he personally refuses to judge others because · he knows this would call forth God's judgment against himself. 
Unfortunately, as soon as· Carter used the expression ''lust in my heart,'' he was in trouble. This sounded to many like a horrible thing for a prominent man to admit; but thi's is actually a standard formula from the language of Baptist catechetics, and could be translated into 
· our terminology as, "I was tempted." So Carter was trying; like a conscientious Sunday school teacher, to communicate some fundamental facts about the strengths and weaknesses of human na­ture. It is hard to see in this a clear sign of hypocrisy or fraud. It is much easier to acknowledge that the man who emerges from that interview is a humble and honest man who makes no claims about his spiritual superiority-over any other person. Carter comes through as a man deeply committed to Christ and the gospel imperative. He reveals himself as neither 
Earth, Wind, ~ Fire 

By Jim Coyne 
Love, peace and togetherness. 

This was the message in the music of Earth, Wind, and Fire as they performed at the ACC on Friday. October 15. All who attended received the message loud and clear. A most impressive entrance featured the twelve member ensemble, adorned ih floor-length red capes, mar­ching into the arena, climbing onto structures resembling futuristic tepees, which ~ubsequently lowered to the stage in draw bridge fashion, revealing the heroes of the evening, they flung off their cape's andno time was wasted in getting the show 
. off to an eye catching and ear pleasing beginning. Accompanying the entrance were oceans of fog, explosions of light, and a tape of music sounding similar to something that might be heard at an affair in honor of the King of England. 
"Celebrate" was the first number heard by the unusually enthusiastic crowd, after a lengthy initial instrumental. The boys in the band got the crowd going early, and everyone was in a partying mood. The continuous excitement and near perfect music of EW&F was evident as they went right into "Feeling". 
The crowd was in the hands of the band, and when the first few notes of "That's the Way" were heard, everyone was on their feet, demonstrating various signs of ap­proval, throughout the almost flawless performance, 
EW&F have the unique ability to intersperse their hit songs with lesser known material, without losing the interest of the audience. At only one point did the concert border on becoming monotonous, and this was during the drum solos, which really were not ·necessary, and actually disrupted the smooth flow of the ·concert. However, the guitar solo was performed well, and I suppose the solos were featured in order to enable each individual instru­ment to share a portion of the main spotlight. 
those times when you're thinking of that 
"certain someone." The vitality and 
versatility of EW&F is something that 
makes their concerts so much better than 
the average showcase of soul music. 
Love is a prevalent' theme in many of their songs, and at one point in the concert they told the audience that "love is not ' only physical, but spiritual, that it knows no race. creed. or color, that it is free, warm, and cool, and that if you don't use it, you're going to lose it." Everyone in 
attendance seemed to agree. 
The band opened up the self proclaimed 

"tighter part of the show" with "Shining 
Star," and no one was seated at this time. 
·:sing a Song" was next, creating a city 
block party atmosphere in the ACC. The 
show concluded with three fire-like explo­
sions, the flashing of the words Earth, 
Wind, & Fire in neon lights, amidst 
thunderous applause, yells and foot stom­
ping. For an encore, "Get Away", 
from the recently released "Spirit" album 
was performed, and the crowd liked it as 
they soulfully rocked along with the unique 
brand of music of the group that bears the 
name of the mighty elements, Earth, Wind 
& Fire. 
The opening act, "The Emotions", 

provided an ample taste of soul to ready 
the crowd for the electric ev~ning which 
was to follow. Consisting of three girls who 
handle the singing and a backup of three 
guitars, drums and keyboard, "The Emo­
tions" served up laid· back, "old fash­
ioned" soul, reminiscent of the Supremes, 
the Ronettes, and the Marvellettes. 
The concert was a satisfying one, In 

fact, I think it would be safe to say that 
everyone got their money's worth, and 
then some, which is more than you can say 
for a lot of concerts today. 
It's encouraging to see the crowds at the 

ACC becoming more enthusiastic, but I do 
wish the ACC would come out of the dark 
ages and permit a dance concert to be held self-ri2hteous nor fanatical. 

Go~ernor Carter espoused the hope that his religious convictions will be a source of strength against doing evil while in public office; but he freely admits how easy it is for weak humans to fall. Accordingly, even though he feels he could not have been guilty of crimes such as those connected with Watergate, he is still cautious: "Not 
taking into consideration my hope for my strength of character. I think that my religious beliefs alone. would prevent that from happening to me. I have that confidence. I hope it's justified." 
The vehement criticism of Carter's interview has come from all quarters; but elements of the Catholic press have been particularly scathing in their attacks. Paul Hallett, for example, columnist with the National Catholic Register. suggests that Carter's "Playboy thinking" makes him unfit for president. "Jimmy Carter's 
' interview with Playboy,'' he writes. "Should settle all doubts that he is unfit to lead the American people. The very fact that he would give the sanction of his prestige to the scabrous pages of a publication that not only offends.decency in word and picture but actively campaigns against Christian morality shows that he · has not the regard for family morality that befits a figure whose power is as much 

Cinema 77 
moral as it is coercive." "Ford·~ personal religion may be no better than Carter's," Hallett continues, "but Ford shows more balance and discrimination. Be'>idcs. he has the experience of office. A vote for Ford would be a vote against the moral and political confusion exhibited by Carter." 
Once you try your best to give a fair and thorough reading to the Carter interview. a commentary like Hallett's. giving a vastly different impression than the one you get from the original text. onlv makes vou wonder.. ,about things like ~mcar-job and bum-rap. Each person will have to decide for himself. of course. but onlv. let l.ls hope. after taking the trouble t~ tind out exactly what the man actually said. 

Neuer Old Fashioned 
By David 0' O'Keefe 
Before I write anything about Our Hospitality. I w_ould like-to go on record as saying that doing a critical analysis of a Buster Keaton film is like dissecting a whoopie cushion. There's something inhernetly absurd and ultimately self-de­feating about the whole process, but I imagine it's good to know something more about a film outside the fact that it is very, 
very funny. 

In any event, Buster Keaton is about as p popular among the younger generation (us) as blue jea'ns. There is something timelessly endearing about his humor that makes him perenially pepular on college campuses and the sort. 
But he is not a fad; his picture isn't splattered across the fronts of sweaters and t-shirts. He isn't cuddly-cute like Charlie Chaplin or fat-and-skinny-funny like Laurel and Hardy or even irreverantly heroic like Groueho. He is steadily pathetic, merciless­ly persecuted by an unsympathetic world 

that shuts its door in his sad face. The lives of his charqcters are constant struggles, but hey never give up. And in the end, Keaton wins. 
None of this is, on the surface, very funny. But what is so funny are the methods he uses in winning. He slips and stumbles along his way, supported by his constant companions: his hat, his mutt and his simple virtue. He is innocent and unsuspecting when he isn't being threat­ened, but wh~n the cahse is on he is as crafty and calculating as his enemies. Nay, craftier. He wins. remember. 
Our Hospitality shows him at his best, Keaton plays Willie McKay, a young New Yorker who returns to the South to claim the estate left to him by his dead father. What Willie doesn't know. but soon learns· is that his father was a casualty of a long-standing family feud between the McKays and the Canfields. 
Willie leaves his aunt in New York and boards the train for the South. The entire sequence showing the dangerously delapi­dated train rolling its way across the land is riotous. At one point. a beat-looking old · man appears by the tracks and starts shelling the engineer with stones. The engineer is shocked but recovers quickly and starts firing back logs of firewood at the man as the train rolls along. Finally. as the train disappears. the old man gleefully gathers up his hard-earned firewood and trots happily back to his cabin. _ 
Willie finally arrives. and from the moment he steps off the train to the closing scene of the film we are treated to one of the funniest cat-and-mouse games imagin­able. It is all high hilarity without ever falling to the less dignified depths of slapstick and pratfall. Keaton's insistence on doing his own stunts make scenes such as the waterfall scene amHhc cliff scene in this film frighteningly suspenseful. 
Keaton's films may be old but thev are far from old fashioned. He -was not onh a comic genius but a serious film technician and director. But he was serious onlv in his determination to make his audiences laugh. and it is to his continue-d ·credit that. SO years later, they're still laughing. 

%Observer_ 
.·~eatures 
The most enthusiastically received song there. Some concerts aren't supposed to of the night was "Reasons", which is still be like lectures. And at an Earth, Wind, one of my favorite love songs, perfect for & Fire concert, it's very hard to keep still. 
the observer Tuesday, October 26, 1976 

CILA plans 'Urban Plunge' project 
I I 
t 
f 
l 
~ 
I I l 
I ~ 
i I I 
t 
al CCUM conference being held at In addition to sponsoring the Urban Notre Dame on November 8-11. Plunge program, CILA also organ­CCUM is a national network of over izes summer projects throughout 3,000 priests, brothers, sisters and the United States and Sourth laity working in prisons, housing America and is involved in several programs, drug clinics, hospitals volunteer services in the South legislatures and various schools Bend area. This year CILA mem­and community projects. bers are working at the South Bend 
CILA was founded fourteen Justice and Peace Center and at years ago at Notre Dame and has several nursing homes and famiiy grown to be one of the largest and children centers throughoUL student organizations on campus. the city. 
Cinema 77 presents: 

BUSTER KEATON 
In 

Our Hospitality Tuesday ~ Wednesday Oct. 26 and 27 at 7:30 and 10:00 pm engineering auditorium admission $1.00 Special Added Attraction: "Cops" 

(1Jbr
1knig1Jtg 
MEN'S HAIRSTYLING 
'E" ('11.-.CEPT in tmist>x hair~tylin~ fur Mt>n and M>., lm·alt·d on nur lnwt'r It' WI. .
HAIRCUT-$5.00 

SIP COFFEl h' lht fin>plat·t' in a rt'laxt•d 
BLOW STYLING-$4.SC atmosphm . 
-CO 'I-I PU:n: PIU\ \('\ in uur indh·iduaJ 
HAIRCUT AND 't~·linl! •mit,. BLOW STYLING o, F\"T SEJ>\In fnr '""''"''' oub 1ncl COM I NATION -$8.50 "~b'~;.,'i':~~~ IU\ prortu•t' 
PERMANENT WAVING BY NATURAl MAN $25 

auttn's ( a~tlt:,~.·
54533 TERRACE LANE Tues.. Wed., Sat. 8:30-5 30, Thurs. & Fri. 8:30-8:30 PHONE 277. 1691 





~~t~lB 

7
ONCE ···-t)) ~··· AGAIN 
.PRESENTS 

HURRICANES 9 -12
Oldie's Night 
'.25 DRAFTS 
$1.00 ALL MGHT 
EVERY TUESDAY • .25 MIXED DRINKS live Country-Western entertainment Wednesday night! 
--~-~~ 


Irish shoot down ducks 
(continued from page 8) 
''This was one of those days when we had a hot hand," Irish mentor Dan Devine remarked. "We got some breaks inthe first half and had really good field position most of the time." 
With 11: 11 left in the contest, the Irish backfield was completely com: posed of backups. Rusty Lisch was doing the signal calling and Brow­ner and Ferguson were the running backs. 
The final Irish tally came with 

Top twenty 

The Top Twenty teams in The Associ~ted Press college_ football poll, w1th first-place votes m paren­7:59 remaining in the game. Ferguson started the drive with consecutive runs of 24 and 14 yards. He then ended the drive with a two yard touchdown plunge. That score marked Ferguson's first in a Notre Dame uniform. 
In retrospect, the Ducks could not function offensively or defen­sively. The Irish defense gave the offense excellent field position for most of the battle. In fact, every Irish scoring drive began in Oregon territory. ~ 
THe Irish took advantage of their tremendous field position as well as the many Oregon mistakes. Notre 
Dame took command from the beginning and never stopped. The Irish were ready for this 
th:ses, se~son records and total, one, they would not Jet it slip away. 
pomts. Pomts based on 20-18-16­14-12-10-9-8 etc.: 
1. Michigan 53 7-0-0 1.184 2. Pitts 6 7-0-0 1.068 3. VCLA 6-0-1 944 4. S. Calif. 5-1-0 707 5. Maryland 7-0-0 705 6. Texas Tech 5-0-0 618 7. Georgia 6-1-0 483 8. Ohio St. 5-1-1 475 9.Nebraska 5-1-1 368 10.Missouri 5-2-0 293 
II . Notre Dame 5-1-0 287 12. Florida 5-1-0 268 13. Oklahoma 5-1-1 159 14. Arkansas 4-1-0 81 15. Texas 3-1-1 33 16. Okla. St. 4-2-0 29 17. Alabama 5-2-0 25 18. Miss. St. 6-1-0 12 19. Colorado 5-2-0 10 20. x-Cinci. 5-1-0 
x-Lone defeat, a 7-3 loss to South­western Louisiana. was later for­feited to Cincinnati. 
FREE!!! 
Soft drink with 3 items 
• 
TACOS • BAB1 TACO 

• 
IIRRITOS • TAMAliS 

• 
EICIIlADAS • TACO DOl 

• 
TOSTADOS • lEA. TACO 

• 
BARBEQUE TACO 

• 
SPA.ISI lOT DOl 

• 
CHEESEBURIER 




Specia!izing in vegetarian Foods. 


SCOTTSDAlE MAll 
NOTICES 
NO Club sponsors tour to USC~ND game plus one week in sunny Hawaii. Game ticket included. Depart Nov. 27 and return Dec. 6. $520.00 from Chicano. Call 1577 for details. ­
Will teach you flute in your spare time. For info call Beth. 8112. 
···-----------·-------­
Accurate , fast typ~~~g~_·M~~~-~-D~~~~h~ 232~0746. Hours: 8 am to 8 pm. 
OVEREATERS Anonymous infor­mation. Write P.O. Box 1265 Holy Cross Hall SMC 
TYPING 35 cents per page. Call Dan, 272-5549. 
f'OR RENT 
Unfurnished house for 2 or 3. Near NO. Call 272-6174 before noon or after 5 pm. 
____________ ; _________________________________ _ 
• 
WANTED 
Need student or GA bama tickets. Call1487. 
------------------~~--~----------------~---~--­
Need l to 3 student tickets for Alabama or Mian:ti._ Frank 8705. 

A week off and time for extra preparation was just too overwhel­ming for Oregon to handle. 
The Irish defense went another four quarters without giving up a touchdown, increasing their total to 16, just four short of the Notre Dame record set by the National 
e
• 


ALL YOU CAN EAT 2 lg~ !!~ 1~ ~r Ynr 1 DAYS AWEEK 11 A.M. to 1:30 P.M. Monday-Tuesday-Wednesday Evening 5to 7:30 P.M. • ALL YOU CAN EAT ____ ._________ PIZZA • ALL YOU CAN EAT-----------CHICKEN • ALL YOU CAN EAT _________ SPAGHEnl • All YOU CAN EAT ...MO-JO POTATOES • ALL YOU CAN EAT ___ ._________ SALAD OR TRY ggc PiZZA PLATE LUNCHI PARLOR I SOUTH BEND ~ 2313 E&fis• R&f.-219-5555 323 L lrel•&f Rtl.-291-7508  


Mash em! Today is John Bruger, er... ..Burger's 21st birthday. He·s lonely. Why not give him a call at 1020 to cheer him up. 
congrats Ann and Charlie ! ! 
Chris D.--"You should be dancing" This time we'll make it 31 or Michigan St., OK? 
Love, Hans, John and Tom~ 
REGISTER,  CALL 1717.  
JOB  HUNTERS!  HERE  IS  A  
CHANCE  TO  ENHANCE  YOUR  

,.---------..., 
•• THE CRISIS IS OVER!! 
I 

I 
Everyone can stop worryin[l. Over the break ·1 picked up a newpair of glasses! (Unfortunately I did not.get home until Wednesday I took a side trip to TENNESSEE, who can 
1 

read those damn road signs any-
I I 
way?) But everything is all ri[lht
I now . 1won't have to quit school, I 
I 

I 
can SEE my teachers and make up for the lost time. Much thanks to all who helped out when I needed it most. You can stop losin[l sleep out there, Notre Dame. It's time to 
I I 
Buchanan  Road,  Niles, Mich.  
683-2888  0  
PERSONALS  


I 
move on to more pressing issues, 
1

like laundry, or Burtchaell. How~ 
·ever, 1could use an auxiliary pair · 
1

sP keep those Christmas contribu-., lions coming. Any questions call Tom at 289-0114; that's 289-0114. Out of town please call collect.

I 
--------------­\ 

-...... ..., . -~ . . _ , : . . I .. ~ 


·---~--ar a# 
.. 
-~ .;::-~·:·:·:·:~;----:-~::.,.~::..--,.·...~·-..--,-·;'",-~;-:·:~j-\ 

~ir Richard's ®I HAIR SULING Award WinningMember of 1976 State Hairstylinro StylistFOR MEN & WOMEN 277-0734 277-0734129 Dixieway South (31 N in Roseland, half mile N. of Campus)  

• 
University of Notre Dame Glee Club in concert 




Wednesday· Oct. 27, 1976 Sacred Heart Church 
Admission: Free Time: 8:15pm 
• Early seating advised 
,.•
r 
a • 1 


Classified Ads 
Need 2 G.A. Barna tix desperately. 
Call 1785. 
Addressers wanted Immediately$ Work at home ~~ no experience necessary -~ excellent pay. Write American Service, Suite 132, Minn~ eapolis, MN. 55426. 
Need 2 Barna tix for parents who never have been to an NO name. Mary8125. ­
BEER Free delivery and low prices. Chip 288-7878. 
Need 2 Alabama tickets.. Call Martha at 7471 til s p.m. 2116 after s p.m. 
FOR SALE 

Book Shop. Used books. Students paradise. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. 9~7. Ralph Casperson Books 1303 
The Gods are not dead -they merely had exams! BEWARE! They returneth in po~r _and ,glory!,!. . . ...:. ·~ .•.--:-:-..~~~----:......&.f-7--:--:-~;:-·--., ' -~ • ' ­
NO women~s 

volleyball meeting tonight 
An organizational meeting will be held tonight for the formation of a women's volleyball team. The meeting will be at Stepan Center 
.from 7 to 9pm. and it will include Irish Co-captain Mark Mclane hauls i11 pass from Rick Slager for one ofpractice.· Astrid Hotvedt, coordina­six touchdowns scored by the offense against Oregon. [Photo by Jim Champions of 1946. 

Oregon left the contest with a record of 3-3. while the Irish upped their season standing to 4-1. 
%Observer 






Sports 
tor of women's athletics, is organi­Hofman]
zing the team; any questions, call her at 8163. 
0 • 

:I). 
• 
Persophone: Winter approacheth. Come down and see me sometime. Hades 
P.S. Ceres~ you'll have to wait for spring. 
John Riley of Rm. 005 Pan[lborn has been totally abused!! 
MARRIED STUDENTS AT NOTRE DAME! HERE IS AN OPPORTU+ NITY TO EXCHANGE EXPERIEN+ CES AND EXPLORE METHODS OF PARENTING. A PARENT ­CHILD RELATIONS WORKSHOP STARTS 7 p.m. NOVEMBER I AT 222 E. CRIPE ST. TO INQUIRE OR 
COMMUNICATION SKILLS FOR INTERVIEW lNG. A JOB INTER+ VIEW SKILLS WORKSHOP STARTS 7 p.m. NOVEMBER 3 IN ROOM 400 ADMINISTRATION BUILDING. TO INQUIRE OR REGISTER CALL 1717. 
STUDENTS! BECOME MORE A+ WARE OF YOUR VALUES AND HOW THEY INFLUENCE IMPOR­TANT LIFE DECISIONS. A LIFE PLANNING, VALUES-CLARIFICA­TION WORKSHOP STARTS SAT­URDAY, OCTOBER 30 at 9AM IN THE COUNSELING CENTER. TO INQUIRE OR REGISTER CALL 
1717. 

Well done, Brugsl 21 finally and still acting like a 3 year old. Slam!! 
.. :.:.:.. :.:.-:.,.~ ......:.:.:.:~~··-\;"--"_.."".-.:.: ..:·;...::.~.-.. 
-


the observer Tuesday, October 26, 1976 
Irish defense intercepts late SC rally 
by Fred Herbst possession on th~ir own 48 and Notre Dame threat passed as a --i-.tl • "' 
Sports Editor proceeded to march to the Game-vicious Gamecock pass-rush sacked .-~...: cock 19 before stalling. Reeve then Slager on back-to-hack plays and il/1 entered the game to kick a 37-yard Reeve's field goal attempt went 
COLUMBIA, S.C: -Southern field goal, giving Notre Dame a 10-wide. hospitality is great, but the Game-0 margin. The field goal was the A capacity crowd of 56,721, cocks of South Carolina made it 22nd of Reeve's career and placed including President Gerald Ford, clear ihat it has its limits. him one ahead of Bob Thomas as watched as both teams' defenses 
In fact, the Gamecocks provided the all-time leading kicker in Irish dominated the second half. After , some very difficult moments for history. gaining 12 first downs in the first their visitors from the north before "It felt really good to get the half, Notre Dame could only man-finally losing to Notre Dame 13-6. record." Reeve said, "but the age four in hte second half against 
''I'm really glad that this game is important thing is that we won the the fired-up Gamecocks. The Irish over," Luther Bradley said. game." never seriously threateded in the "South Carolina's about as tough After a series of punt exchanges, second half after Browner's fumble as anyone we've faced. They gave Notre Dame mounted a 72-yard recovery. us a real hard time. It's enough to march that ended with a 30-yard Carolina managed a field goal on come down here and play in front of Reeve field goal. With 5:08 their first possession of the final their fans.'' remaining in the first half, the Irish quarter. With Steve Dorsey and 
It looked like it wouldn't be so had a 13-0 lead and appeared to be Ron Bass doing the work, the tough. as the Irish took advantage on the verge of a romp. Gamecocks drove on the ground to of i::arolina 's "hospitality" to But that wasn't to be the case. the Notre Dame 14 before stalling. march for a touchdown after taking With ,a fourth and four at the Parrish came on to kick a field the opening kickoff. Gamecock 21. Notre Dame was goal and close the Notre Dame lead 
"We gambled some, made some penalized for roughing the kicker, to 13-6 with 9:43 left in the game. mistakes that hurt us on their first giving Carolina a first down at their The crowd came .to life as drive." Gamecock mentor Jim 37 and with 42 seconds to play in Carolina's defense got the ball back Carlen said. "Notre Dame execu-the half. From there Carolina for their offense with 8:24 remain­ted the drive very well. After that drove to the Notre Dame 37 with ing, stopping the Irish on three we settled down and I thought two seconds remaining. On the straight plays. played extremely well." next play, the ·Irish were penalized A holding penalty killed a Game-
After AI Hunter returned the for being offside, putting the ball cock drive and Notre Dame had the game's opening kick to the Irish 20, on the 32 where Carolina's Britt ball back with 6:57 to play. Again By not allowing Sough Carolina a the third highest individual total in Rick Slager went to work directing Parrish booted a 49-yard field goal the Carolina defense held the Irish touchdown, Notre Dame extended Notre DAme history. Emil Sitko h Notre Dame 8; yards in 11 plays. that just cleared the upright as the without a first down as the GAme­their streak of quarters without holdsthe school mark, having ran The Irish scored on a nine-yard half closed, cutting the Irish lead to cocks regained possession at their giving up a touchdown to 20. That for 186 yards against Michiganpass from Slager to Willard Brow-13-3. own 30 with 5:33 left. 
ties that school record, which is State in 1948. Marcliy Schwartz 
ncr with 10:15 remaining in the On the first play from scrim-With the fans chanting "We also h eld by the 1946 undefeated rushed for 185 yards in 1931 first quarter to take a 7-0 lead as mage, the Gamecocks fumbled and want eight", Carolina drove tothe 
National Championship team. against Carnegie Tech. Hunter Dave Reeve added the extra point. Ross Browner recovered for the Notre Dame 21 before the Irish 
The Gamecocks threatened the carried the ball 32 times. onlyThree punts later the Irish took Irish at the Carolina 36. But the called time out wiih 3:32 to play in streak in the second half, twice Wayne Bullock has ever carried
Chip Spinaf".::i:i:i:;:i:;:i:i:::::::::::;:::::;:;:;:,:;:::;:;:;:;;~:;:;;;:;:;;;~=:::~=:~::::::::::::::::a ~0 ~~~~~~~ slo~h~he p~~m~~~~~~· penetrating the Notre DAme 20, more times in a ·single game. 
but on each occassion the Irish Bullock carried the ball 36 times successful as on the next play, defense was equal to the task. against Michigan State in 1974. It Willie Fry broke through to drop "When we realized that they was the first game that Hunter has
Vacation Notes Kevin Long for a three-yard loss. were getting close to scoring we ever rushed for 100 yards. Then, faced with a third and 12 on started to get excited about it," Dave Reeve will extend his Notre the Irish 24, Bass launched a pass Bradley said. "We have a Jot of Dame record with every fie-ld goal 
-.-.-u......,. •..-•.• u.-...-.................-.-..........,.................·.······~-.High and Inside 
~·.•.•.•.-•.•.-,.•.·.•. '•••o•• .•.,•.•.•..•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•~.•.•.•J".•.•e•e•.•.-.•J'.•,.-.•,-_;>, over the middle that Jim Browner pride in our defense. We were he kicks for the remainder of his High and inside returns after a three week hiatus caused primarily by a made a diving interception of to aware that we could tie the school career. 
lack of anything exciting to write about. But things are hopping again. .end the Gamecock ·threat with 3:28 record and we weren't about to let Ross Browner's fumble recoverv Lets take a quick look at the wonderful world of sports ...... remaining. anyone score on us. The thing for in the third period gave him th~ Twenty quarters without giving up a touchdown. AI Hunter rushing for On the next play, Hunter burst us to do now is to just keep going Irish record for most fumbles 
past the Carolina defense for 64
97 and 181 yards in his last two games. The resurgent Irish with a five and hopefully nobody will score on recovered in a career. The recov­
yards and the game was finally safe
game win skein. Yes, all this and more happened while we took a rest us for the rest of the year.'' ery was his ninth and broke the from the Dome. With Dan Devine and Rick Slager more secure than ever for the Irish. AI Hunter rushed fbr 181 yards, record of eight held by Jim Stock. before in their respective jobs, Irish fans have taken to watching the game again instead of waiting for that fatal J;ord-ish blooper to wreak weekly 
Notre Dame gridders shine for
havoc with their sanity. Take note of those records as they roll in. Hunter's performances were both personal highs, and AI is off and running like never before in his Irish 
parents in romp over Ducks
career. He scored thrice against Oregon's Quackers, and has South Bend forgetting about what a guy named TD did to us. The defense, by Paul Stevenson the Ducks of Oregon met the Major gains were Slager's 15 yardmeanwhile. tied a school record set by the '46 National Champs with their 
Fighting Irish of Notre Dame for pass to McLane and his 13-yard
Sports Writer 

accumulated endzone shutouts. With Navy as our next opponents, only a their first battle ever. pass to MacAfee. Hunter cappedmassive outbreak of swine flu or some similar catastrophe will prevent a By the time the last second had off the drive with a nine yard run new record from being set. So its off for a walk across the Cuyahoga River The sky was overcast; the tem-ticked off the clock, Notre Dame with 14:22 left in the hair. The in sunny Cleveland Saturday. And that rumbling in the distance is merely perature was a chilly 44 degrees, had won their fourth-straight game point after was blocked, so the the long awaited approach of a tidal wave--color it crimson. · and the wind was coming out of the and had registered their third score was 20-0.
•••••••••••••••••••• north at ten miles per hour on shutout of the season. The score On the ensuing kickoff, Oregon's October 16, 1976. That wast he day read Notre Dame 41--0regon 0. Dennis Bullock coughed up the In another sport, in a different town, the baseball world dozed and fro1,e ·t I ce Unbelievable as it may sound, football when he was hit by Tony
through the annual winter (fall?) non-classic. Talk about dull! When the MCVay 0 rep a the Ducks could not muster a single Zappala. Luthet:. Bradley recovered big news is walkie-talkies and the temperature, you know something is for Notre Dame on the Oregon 34. 
.nsparger ,·n N y yard net rushing the entire game. 
wrong. And it was. Cincinnati's overpaid, overfed and overpraised prima Ar • • Oregon completed 14 out of 32 Six plays and 2:49 later, Hunter donnas, as this columnist once referred to them, walked over the Junior 
passes for 146 yards, which accoun-swept left end for seven yards and Circuit's Yankees, becoming the first team to go undefeated in NEW YOR~ (AP)-The hapless ted for their total offensive output. another six points for Notre Dame. post-se_ason play since the divisional set-up began in '69. (Maybe I was a New York Gtants are no longer On the other hand the Irish Ducks never mounted a
The 
little harsh on them back then--I guess they do deserve the praise.) Billy Coach Bill Arnsp~rger's ~roblem. compiled 519 total yard's offensive-serious offensive threat. They did Martin and his error-prone Yanks were no match for the big boys from the The team, wmless m seven Jy. Notre Dame picked up 306 
not even notch a first down until 
big league. And the trend of NL dominance of the sport seems to grow N~tional Football League games yards on the ground and 213 yards 3:12 remained in the first half. 
each year. If the AL loses big in the free agent market, baseball's thts season, was turned over to via the aerial attack. 
The second half found Willard 
competitiveness may be hurting. Time will tell. John McVay Monday when Arn-Browner replacing Terry Eurick,This was also the year of the big buck. Bowie's assinine scheduling of sparger was fired as head coach. The fir~t. Iri~h tally came with who was injured on the prior
The firing came in the final year 4:54 remammg m the first quarter. 
night games in the middle of October can be traced to only one cause--the kickoff.
of Arnsparger's three-year contract The drive started on the Oregonquest for the almighty dollar. NBC gave baseball $700,000 to put game 
With 11 :50 remaining in the two at night. The only problem was that the gametime temperature in and followed a 27-0 drubbing by 38-yard line. The highlight of the third quarter, Notre Dame was Cincinnati was 42 degrees and falling. That's not fit for man nor beast nor the Pittsburgh Steelers Sunday, a scoring march was a 33-y~rd option called for offsides. This five yarder
game in which the club looked pass off of the reverse. Rtck _Slager
spectator. What if the game was in Minnesota? The top brass has got to was the first penalty assessed start considering the players and the fans a little more than the old totally listless. handed off to AI Hunter who tn t~rn against the Irish offensive line in
"It was time for a change," said gave to Dave Waymer commg
greenbacks. . 
three games. 
Speaking of which, Kenny Holtzman's statement as to his non-playing Andy Robustelli, the club's director around on the reverse. Waymer Notre Dame's next scoring
of operations, who huddled with found Dan Kelleher on the Oregon
status for the Yanks seems only too indicative of the sad attitude which 
march began on the Oregon 38.
club President Wellington Mara one yard line. Slager then reachedpermeates the pro ranks today. "I don't care at all that I'm not playing. 
Vagus Ferguson picked up six andbefore announcing Arnsparger's paydirt from the one and ReeveAll I care about is that (bank) passbook. I mean it. It doesn't mean Hunter then streaked 31 yards for
dismissal. added the point after.
anything to me.-l'm a mercenary." Whatever happened to the guy who an Irish score.
McVay, 45, coached for two Notre Dame did not hesitate toplayed because he loved the game. It's really sad to see big league sports "Willard (Browner) kicked out 
seasons in the World Football score again, as they again founddegenerating into just another big business where the consumer takes a the cornerback and there were 
back scat to the producer's interest. League before joining the Giants t~e end;zone on their n~xt posses­
some excellent blocks in front of·
•••••••••••••••••••• this year as assistant coach for ston. With 2:19 left tn the first 
me," Hunter acknowledged. "Aliiresearch and development. quarter, Slager hit Mark McLane had to do was run. It's exactly like 
· McVay played college football at for 11 yards and an Irish touch­Tony Dorsett broke Archie Griffin's year-old collegiate rushing record it's drawn on the blackboard."
Miami of Ohio under Woody Hayes down. Reeve connected on theSaturday with 180 yards against Navy. With four games to go, TD will For the day, Hunter rambled forand Ara Parseghian. He served as conversion, and the score was 14-0probably stand for a while. But enough about the top Irish nemesis. 
97 yards in 16 carries. This was his an assistant to Duffy Daugherty at in favor of the Irish . 
•••••••••••••••••••• season high, having previous game 
Michigan State for three years and The defense was instrumental in totals of 94 and 96 yards this
then was head coach and athletic the total game domination by Notre 
Finally, a quote and a note. Sports Illustrated in covering the Ferguson added 82 yards
season.
director at Dayton for five years Dame. They held Oregon deep inMichigan--Northwestern game: "The question is, would the poets, artists in 16 attempts.
• and drama majors who had lost 11 games in a row actually make a before moving to the WFL in that their own territory leavingthe Irish The Irish performed well allleague's first season. offense with ideal field position ontouchdown or even kick a field goal against the number one team in the around. The offense moved the 
nation?" They said it, I didn't. By the way, the Wildkittens now own the Arnsparger was not ofered an-many occasions. ball and the stalwart defense did
other position in the Giant organi-Notre Dame's next touchdown
nation's longest losing streak at 13. But take heart, there are only 4 not let up on the Ducks.
zation. began at the Oregon 49-yard line. 
A-1 A;unter grounded out 181 yards against Oregon: This total was the third highest in Notre Dame history. [Photo by Tony Chifari] 






