
j 
1 
i 
The Academic Council revised Fr. Michael Murphy observed future years." ing Thanksgiving a not-going-home credibility in the decision processes next year's calendar in a 23 to 22 that the idea for classes to meet on Jones originally favored having holiday," he said. "However, alii at Notre Dame, proving that they vote yesterday afternoon to design· Saturday "came from the stu-classes meet the Friday after care about is having a sufficient are nto just arbitrary." ate the Friday after Thanksgiving dents." The students original Thanksgiving, but he said, "I was number of classes," he added. M ·t d · as a holiday. 0 0
proposal to the Council was adop-more concerned that Monday-Wed-Following the calendar vote a :ssey c~.e /n °fpo~m~ arg~­Student representative Mike ted, ammending it to include nesday-Thursday classes not have two-hour discussion ensued to 're-~~n da\h0 Jer mg h~v~ng
1
Gassman said the provision Saturday classes "whenever neces-one class fewer than ever before vise the Academic Manual. It was e en the reason~ . w . c -;"~Y stipulated that "a Saturday sary" to apply to future years. than that classes meet that particu-decided by a hand vote to allow reoprten e case, rmgmg 1 0 
. cou 
class be included when required 
faculty members who have been · to account for the necessary refused reappointment, promotion A third proposal passed at the number of days in the fall or tenure to request reasons for meeting revised the University's semester." such action. policy of requiring approval by the This calendar will serve as a Gassman stated, "There was provost or vice-president for busi­model for future academic years, much discussion on each side -ness affairs in hiring close-related according to Gassman. However, a there were worries of the legalities persons. Saturday class will not always be of the statement." There is the According to Gassman, the new included, he noted, in order to possibility that the University be policy provides for no "prejudice" maintain the required 70 day sued if the reasons are considered in hiring related people. However, semester. insufficient for such action, he he added that the clause states that Professor James L. Massey sta­explained. close relatives cannot initiate or ted, "The reason classes will meet Massey said, "At present, cer-participate in "any decisions invol­one Saturday next year is that the tain departments do give reasons ving matters which affect the opening and closing class days but not all do since there was no appointment, retention, promotion, have already been published. Now requirement before.'' salary or there professional interest it is too late to move the dates up or "It is a matter of professional of a close relative." back to include an additional day," he said. "In following years, though, classes may begin earlier or close later instead of meeting on Saturday," he observed. "Roughly ten years ago. Tues­day-Thursday classes regularly met on Saturdays as well," Massey noted. He attributed the change to the fact that almost every other college did not meet on Saturday. 
Classes on the Friday after Thanksgiving were cancelled yesterday by a 
Dean of Administration Leo 
23-22 Academic Council vote. One Saturday class will be added to Corbaci is expected to designate make up the extra holiday. (Photo by Paul Clevanger) 
In grade dispute 
Students claim unfairness 
by Barbara Breitenstein The other question, worth six by students not used to receiving Staff Reporter points, was answered correctly by low grades and that it was just an only 20 students and was regarded "emotional outburst." 
The number of failing grades as a "trick question" by many of "I think the main problem," given in one law course last the students, according to one John Ready, acting president of the semester has led to complaints by student. "These results." the stu­Student Bar Association, stated, many first-year students the past dent continued, "indicate the prof­"is the heavy work load of the week. essor failed to communicate to the first-year curriculum, and steps are 
students what he wanted to comm­being taken to alleviate that."
The 52 D's and F's given in the unicate and is a reflection on the Ready stated meetings with Law course. Tort Law, comprise over Scholl Dean Link and between Link effectiveness of the professor toone-third of 149 students involved, and first-year professors this weekcommunicate," he commented.
and were given on the basis of one have dealt primarily with this''I think the professor misledfinal exam at the end of the problem.
students in the difficulty of the test, semester. Students who failed will what would be on the test, and how "The big gripe," one student,be required to retake the course who received an F for the course,and the exam. 
commented, "seems to br; that 
Professor Charles E. Rice, tea­
most people thought they knew the cher of the course, stated only "As material." far as I'm concerned, there's no 
Another student felt the test was legitimate cause for complaint." "outrageous" and that "there was However, many of his students an awful lot of dirty dealing going disagree. on." He complained that grades 

given in the course were out of Students construct Mardi Gras booth in preparation for next weekends "After reflecting," one student festivities. This year's festival will last ten days. (Photo by Paul
proportion to the rest of the grades
revealed, "I can honestly say it was Clevanger)
given in the Law School and not fair." He cited the inclusion of especially in the first year, and that "a few bad questions" and the 
the situation has created a "furor test's concentration on "a few among first-year students. 
Independent grocer 
areas not taught well" as causes 
Rice is a good teacher and
for the poor results. 
respected as such," the student 
plans to replace A&:P
"I feel the test was basically continued. "Complaints are about unfair," another student concur­discrepancies in the test, not about by Matt Kane Both Quigley and Parent satd red, because the way it was set up the quality of the teacher. Its a Staff Reporter their group has no buyer as pr yet,
question of the validity of the test.''
there was a greater part of the test An independent grocer will prob­but several parties have expressed 
emphasized, out of proportion to Some students did not feel the ably occupy the now closed A&P at interest. The major obstacle for a the time spent in class and in the test was unfair, but that the results Eddy and Howard streets, accordi­potential buyer is insufficient material covered in the readings on upset many students. "Everyone ng to Roger Parent, president of funds. Quigley says this is where some areas. Also, there were Professor Rice tis effected somewhat by it," one the Common Council of South the task force can help out. ther student added. "This whole situa­
certain full-or-no-credit sections on student said. Bend. Quigley slid that A&P has closed 
Rice can not modify his grading tion of grades has damaged the Parent is also temporary chair-around a thousand stores last yearthe test which should've been on the six-point question, but is learning atmosphere of the first person of the newly formed task due to the "big store" trend ingraded on a partial-credit basis." 
restricted by the Hoynes' Law year. Complaints are nm just about force which was set up to deal with business. A&P neglected many of 
•'I'm not sure it was fair," School Code, which states that the Tort exam, but other teachers the problem of what to do with the its small stores. like the one another student remarked. "1 tho­and other exams are involved.'' store. recently closed. The feeling is that 
grades may not be changed, except 
ught it was a hard test. It covered • Arthur Quigley, member of the a small store does not provide the
on test questions which involved a "I think there's a lot of unhappi­
more than I studied,'' she added. task force, faculty member and profit to warrant its existance. 
question of judgment. ness in the first year cla1.s," Ready president of the Northeast Neigh­Quigley doubted a co-operativeSeveral complaints were made said, ''but it will fade away in a
Some students cited the heavy borhood Council, agreed with Par­could be established because of the 
about two specific questions on the ·couple of weeks." 
work load for firstyear students and ent. Quigley said the task force high degree of cooperation needed test. One was a three-point quest­a lack of preparation for the test as " All we're asking," one student was extremely interested in provid­for it to suceed. He also encourag­ion on which Rice later conceded contributing factors. One student concluded, "is to be judged as ing a store sensitive to community es interested students to contact 
parts due to its lack of clarity .. said the complaints were a reaction fairly as other classes." needs. the task force. 
r 
2 the observer Wednesday, January 21, 1976. 
,----News Briefs--­
l t 
I===========National 
f 
Food dye ruling challenged 
f 
ST. LOUIS-The red food dye that has been banned by the Federal Food and Drug Administration has been challenged by a major producer of the dye. 
"There is absolutely no hazard in using Red No. 2 despite what has been reported by the FDA," said Jerome W. Kinnison, color products manager for Warner-Jenkinson Co. of St. Louis. "That dye has been in foods since before 1907 and no health hazards have 
been reported in humans." 
Running back recieves summons 
ST.LOUIS-A summons has been issued for St. Louis Cardinals running back Terry Metcalf in connection with his arrest at Lambert Airport, St. Louis County officials said yesterday. A clerk for a magistrate said Metcalf will face a charge of peace disturbance. 
Metcalf, when found to have firecrackers among his possessions as he was boarding a plane for New Orleans where he will play in the Pro Bowl, was reported to have told security personnel in a joking manner that his plans were to blow up the craft. 
Prisoners escape to get guns 
TRENTON, N.J .• Yesterda· State Police said that the prisoners who shot up Trenton State Pris t trying to escape Monday night were trying to get to a van loadt.:· · with guns. 
The shooting on Monday ·1ent on for about six hours before state police and corrections offit ~rs got the prison under control. A search is continuing for other guns the prisoners were believed to have had. It is not know how many prisoners were attempting to escape. 
One prisoner was killed in the battle and serious wounding resulted for three guards and another prisoner. 
~on Campus Today___.._. 
12 :15 pm ---seminar, "current studies on rat prostate carcomp­ma" by dr. morris pollard, n.d. rm. 278 galvin aud. 
3:25 pm ---lecture, "catalytic control of automobile emissions" by dr. I. louis hegedus, general motors research lab rm 269 chem eng bldg. 
3:30 pm ---computor course, "using tso at notre dame" 'rm 11 S computor center 
4:30 pm ---colloquium, "the etfective interaction deduced from nuclear spectra" by dr john schiffer, argonne national lab rm 118 nieuwlantf .cience hall 
7:00 pm ---meeting, college republican club, Iafortune room 2d 
7:30 pm ---american scene, "on living the american tradition" by thomas 'angan, univ of toronto carroll hall 
8:00 pm ---basketb II, st. joseph at notre dame in ace arena 
8:15 pm ---concert, richard morris in all-debussey piano program library aud 
Mass held for
r*The Observer I 
ND graduate
Night Editor: Marti Hogan 
A mass will be held today at 5:15 in memory of Major James Egan, a Dahrling 1964 Notre Dame graduate who has been missing in action in 
Assistant Night Editor: Debbie 
Layout Staft: W S Nichols, John 
Vietnam since January 21,1965. 
Paul Jones, Denise Persinger, 
The mass, which will be celeb­
Paul Stevenson, Thomas Stejskal, 
Jim Commyn, Charles Bodkin, rated by Fr. Dan Jenke in Sacred Jim Guerra, Jeff Norkus Heart Church, is meant to focus attention on "the plight of service­Day Editor: Marianne Schulte men still missing action and their 
families."
Copy Reader: Gregg "G. B. Bangs 
The mass also marks the third anniversary of the end of U.S.
Editorials: Jim Stevens 
hostilities in Vietnam. 
Sports: Ernie Torriero 
Typists: mel Celeste, Neil Viii, 
The Observer is published Monday Karen Hinks, Gregg Bangs, Tom 
lhrough Friday and weekly during O'Neil 
lhe summer session, except during exams and vacation periOds. The Observer <S published by the
Compugraphic: Morey Blinder 
studenrs of the Univ. of Notre Dame and 51 Mary's College.
Late Typist: Morey Blinder, Hank 
Subscriprions may be purchased
Van Dyke 
for 10 dollars per semester ( 18 dollars per year l from The Ob·
Ad Layout: Sally Dentz, Tom 
server, Box Q, Notre Dame, In Walrath, Mike Miller, and Tom, 
diana, ~6556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556.
rhelen 
J 
Hesburgh -will highlight Junior Parents Weekend activities 
by Ann Bebenek announced. Reservations for the Junior Par­
Staff Reporter Hotel reservations are alloted in ents Weekend are due by January the order in which they are 25, 1976. Checks can be mailed to received. The hotels will send a P.O. Box 422, Notre Dame, Indiana 
Junior Parents Weekend 1s sche­letter to the parents confirming the 46554 or taken to 211 Walsh. 
duled for Friday, February 27 room reservation. Hotel bills will Nancy Cueroni is the chairperson through Sunday, February 29, 19-be taken care of at the hotel at for this event and can be contacted 
76. Activities begin with the Notre checkout time. about uestions. 
Dame vs. Minn-Duluth hockey game Friday night. Tickets are $3.00 each. A cocktail party will be held after the hockey game. Tickets for this will cost $3.00 per person which includes the price of two drinks. Additional drink 
'Tearafter vear 
tickets will be available. 
Isemester'afte;
The Collegiate Workshop, plan­
semester~ the
ned for Saturday morning at 10 a.m., will be sponsored by each of 
CollegeMaster 
the colleges separately. The 
from Fidelih·
parents will have a chance to meet the professors in the college. 
Union I.ifc lias 
Lectures or demonstrations will be 
heen the most
given concerning what the students are doing now in the college and 
accelltt~, most 
what their future possibilities are. 
popular plan on 
"Notre Dame in Review", a multi­
campuses all 
media presentation by the Alumni 
Association will be shown through­
m·er America. 
out Saturday afternoon. 
Find out why.
Father Theodore ftesburgh, Un­iversity president, will celebrate 
Call the
the Junior Class mass Saturday 
evening at 6:30 p.m. in Sacred 
Fidelih· lJnion 
Heart Church. The homily will be 
Coll(•geMaster
given by Flther James Burtchaell, 
University Provost. The Presiden­
~~ield Associate 
tial Dinner will be held in Stepan 
m your area:
Center at 8 p.m. Saturday night. 1 005 E. LaSalle
Junior Parents Weekend-will 

South Bend. Ind.
conclude with a breakfast Sunday 
morning at 8:30 a.m. "Digger" 
Phone 287-2327 Phelps will be the guest speaker. 
,~:; 
Parents will be able to -check-in 
·~ 
and pick up their tickets during 
either of the two registration 
G)lll'<J,dVbstcr
periods, Friday from 4 p.m. to 8 
' 
p.m. 
or Saturday from 9 a.m. to 1 

p.m. 
At this time any problems will be taken care of and any changes in the schedule will be 



If youUlOrked on your 
high school newspaper 
The Observer needs you ... 
reporting 
lay-out 
sports 
features 
typing 
etc... 
Comeupto ouroffices tonight 
thru thursday (top floor LaFortune) 1 
between 7 & 9 pm 




Wednesday, January21, 1976 the observer 
3 
Tax program to assist low income persons 
by Frank Tennant problems are complicated. nine centers and 180 students. successful with $78,500 in returns those who don't know where to find 
Staff Reporter Wittenbach believes "the Tax Rapid growth enabled students last year and hopes to get $100,000 the answers. "People who are Assistance Program brings Notre to serve in key administrative and returned to South Bend residents overwhelmed by the bureaucracy of Dame into the South Bend commu­supervisory positions. Twenty-five this year. Most of these people the IRS can come in and ask 
Notre Dame's Tax Assistance nity." He added Notre Dame's students are enrolled for three would not usually file a return. questions," he said. "Then, they Program will offer free income tax national prominence separates it pass-fail credits in a new course, Michael Welch, a senior accoun­can approach their tax return form preparation service and counseling from South Bend and that the BA 390. These students will be ting major who participated last a more confident standpoint," he to low-income individuals in the program is one way to bridge the center supervisors and put in much year, said it is a needed service for added. 
South Bend area again this year. gap. The volunteers show that more time than the average volun­
The program consists of approx­Notre Dame does care about Mich­teer. imately 200 student volunteers, iana and the surrounding commu­Wittenbach termed the program mostly accounting majors. faculty 
nity. advisors and local certified public The program is not limited to accountants. The assist persons South Bend. Last year volunteers Tax assistance 
who earned $10,000 or less in 1975. went to Rochester, Ind., to aid Dr. James Wittenbach and Dr. Fulton county tornado victims 
extensionplanned 
with their tax returns. Storm
Ken Milani are the faculty By Mike MoDen advisors. Anyone who wishes to damage in April 1974 complicated Staff Reporter volunteer and has not already them. This year Wittenbach has Two accounting professors havesigned up should contact them or arranged for students to travel to announced plans for a "Tax-Tip" go to the training session on Rochester on two Saturdays in program for members of the Notre Monday at 7:30p.m. February to serve low-income fami­Dame-St. Mary's community which lies. 
will possibly include a weekly feature in the Observer. 
The program provides the oppor­
tunity for students to gain practical The program began in 1972 with knowledge through helping people. one center and two volunteers. Professors Kenneth Milani and 
Milani said it gives the students a Milani explained that the need was James Wittenbach have help set up chance to apply what is learned in there and the students wanted to this new program which is an the classroom as some of the tax give their time. In 1975 there were extension of the Tax Assistance 
Program which has been in opera­tion for five years. The program· offers South Bend residents help in preparing their Federal income tax forms free of charge. The service is also available to students and 
Budget Act i1nposes 
legislative timetable 
faculty of the University. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -When indication how far the Demo­Organizers of the program hope Congress gets President Ford's cratic-controlled legislature, to encourage students to submit budget Wednesday the new ma­with its emphasis on economic questions to the program through chinery the lawmakers con­stimulation and legislation in­the Observer or by contacting structed to give themselves a tended to produce jobs, will de­volunteers at the program's office better grip on the nation's fis­part from Ford's recommenda­in Room 247 in the Hayes-Healy 
Center.
cal plans will go fully into ef­tion for a $394.2 billion spending fect for the first time. ceiling and a $10 billion tax cut. Milani said questions submitted The Budget Act not only in­
by students should concern areas
To prepare their resolutions,
vites Congress to set spending the budget committees will like summer employment and tax 
provisions for students.Foreign 
RENTAS. U. REFRIGERATOR THIS SEMESTER 
$30.00 for large $25.00 for small FIRST COME BASIS­LIMITED NUMBER AV AIBLE COME TO THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE MWf--1-3 pm. 
'\~tUB~f' 
···~ ~··· 
CELEBRATES ITS NEW REMODE,LING. 
NOW THRU THURS. JAN. 22 BOTTLE BEER & ALL MIXED $.50 DRAFT $.40 
ceilings for itself, but it im­have estimates and recommen­students may also wish to take I I 
poses a tight timetable on all N •
dations from all the congres­
advantage of the service, he said.
legislative actions that have to I ~ 
sional committees preparing
do with money. Beginning sometime in February ~~ HAPPY HOUR THURSDAY 5-11 p.m. ~j~
legislation, a general recom­
the program will initiate "help"
The schedule is so demanding mendation from the Joint -~ * 
sessions two afternoons a week.
that some members question Senate-House Economic ~~ 7-7's $.25 ~ 
The days for this service will be
whether it can be followed, but Committee and a technical re­announced shortly.
publicly the budget committees port from the new Congression­~:::::::!:!:::~:::::::::::::::::::.,-:-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:~;:~s:::::::s=:=:::::::::::::::!!::::=:::::::::=:::::::~:::~:::::!:::::::::~:::::l. of the House and Senate insist al Budget Office laying out al­it can and will. ternatives and effects of vari­ous budget levels.
House Speaker Carl Albert in an interview said budget items May 15 is the date for Con­will take precedence and all gress to complete action on the general legislation will have to first budget resolution. Until it stand aside until the early is adopted, with any differences deadlines are met. between House and Senate ver­
• • .Andeven ifyou didn't 
sions ironed out, neither HouseThe House Budget Committee 
may consider appropriation or
has scheduled two weeks of revenue bills, although com­hearings on the budget. They "littees may work on them.
begin Monday. The Senate com­
Observer still needs yo
mittee is to begin its deliber­Committees considering bills ations Feb. 3. • that will require later appro­priations must report them by
Both have their work cut out May 15 unless the requirementfor them. The act requires each 
Join the Observer
is expres~ly waived. ­
committee to report to its chamber by April IS a target Once Congress has set its resolution setting out totals of guidelines by adopting the first contract authority and actual budget resolution it is free to 
outlays, both as a total and for go ahead with legislation au­each major budget category; thorizing spending and provid­
reportersrecommended levels of reve­ing the actual funds. The Budg­nues, deficit or surplus -at et Office and the two budget present, certainly deficit -and committees, however, will be debt. monitoring the process and ad­
lay-out
That resolution, while it is vising Congress periodically not absolutely binding on Con­how its actions compare with 

gress, will give the first firm the targets. 
Juniors!!! 
Sign up for Senior Portraits Now! 
VVed.Jan.21-Fri.Jan.30 at Dining Halls from 5:15-6:30p.m. or call7085or7524 

from 7 p.m'\·:-.9P.~ffi ... <-:-:-:.;.;.;-:-:·:-:· 
sports features typing etc... 
Come upto ouroffices tonight thru thursday (top floor LaFortune) Between 7&9 PM 
<<<·>>: 

*1.~d.Q!?.~~[ver
Founded November 3, 1966 
EDITORIAL. BOARD of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported AI Rutherford Managing Editor as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials reprnent 
The Observer is published by the students of the University 
Jim Eder Executive Editor 
the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­
Pat Hanifin Editorial Editormentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, Bob Mader News Editor
cartoons and regular columns express the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the 
Maureen Rynn Ca!lllUS Editor community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor expression of varying opinions on campus. Ken Bradford Copy Editor Val Zurblis Wire Editor Editorials: 283-1715 News: 213-1661 Business: 213-7471 
Tom O'Neil Features Editor Business Manager Tom Modglin Bill Brink Sports Editor Advertising Manager Tom Whelan Dan Sanchez Senior Night Editor 
Wednesday, January 21, 1976 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
Tf{~ f?ASS&N6£R.. £WI< Of TH6 AIRCMFTHAS 8&CN OPm£1?, AN/J 01/NfiS& OFFICIAlS Al</3 NOW 
6ATHEI?IN6 ON 71-1& RUNUJ4YTO M~T TH& NEI(J TOP &NVOY. 
f 
lH~ tfR££1/NG IS £XPt:C!E/J 
Thanks 
The failure of the drinking age bill to pass very professional job. In an election year state this session of the Indiana Legislature was a legislators are extremely reluctant to take any great disappointment for the students of Notre controversial stands but the student lobbyists Dame and for everyone who would like to see a convinced many legislators to stand behind the reasonable and realistic drinking law. But that bill. disappointment should not obscure the fact that great thanks and commendation are owed 
While they did not succeed in getting the bill to the student lobbyists who came within a few through, the Notre Dame group along with votes of pushing the bill through the State other student lobbyists got it past the House of Representatives. 
committee where it stalled last year and onto the House floor. More importantly, they have laid a solid foundation for another attempt nextLobby co-ordinator Tom Black and his year when legislators are more willing toassociates Jerry Klingenberger, Ed Byrne, legislate.
Cress Hizer, Tom Fitzgerald, Darlene Palma, John I..onsberg, Augie Grace, Rob Tully, Michael Tate, Daine Merton and Stan Car­In a year more notable for drifting than for denas put in enormous effort. They contacted decisive leadership on all political levels the all the House members individually, presen­student body should be grateful for the strong, ting the case for a lowered drinking age. State well-organized effort Tom Black and his team representatives credited them with doing a put out on their behalf. 

A Christian in ROTC 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiistephen k. judge 
defend, and our Congress, which is
A certain number of people ask me 
"nonviolence," they admit that re­
invested with the power to commis­
from time to time how it is possible 
volutions, and wars of liberation are 
sion officers, have made the career of 
for me to be in Army ROTC and also 
justified. One man's nonviolence is 
be a philosophy major. Sometimes 
an officer a highly selective and 
another man's 'war of liberation'. I
challenging one. No government
their faces turn ghastly white when I 
am not surprised that this sort of 
employee can be as easily and
explain that I hope to be an 
person despises ROTC, since he is 
abruptly dismissed for incompetence 
Airborne-Ranger qualified Infantry 
likely to despise our government and 
or misconduct as an officer in the
leader. How is it possible, they ask, 
the West in general. I only wonder if 
for an intelligent and moraJly sensi­
Armed Forces. 
he recognizes the shallow dishonesty 
tive person to participate in the 
-To soine, no doubt, these points 
of passing himself off as a conscien­
military? And especially the Army! 
may well appear to be incmnsequen­; tious believer in nonviolence? By 1 
Why could I not at least be in the Air 
tial. They would argue that the 
that standard I would say the vast 
Force or Navy where they perceive 
mission of the Armed Forces is to 1 
majority of our military and civilian 
that war might at least be a little 
prepare for war and wage it success­
leaders are nonviolent; wars are in 
more glamorous and relatively anti­
fully. Since they feel war is immoral 
and of themselves about as appealing
septic. To understand my position, 
and success in war positively offen­
as a case of tuberculosis. 
or that of any other ROTC student 
sive (there is, I suppose, a certain . The question is not whether or not 
who finds himself the object of 
romantic mystique 'about defeat) they 1 war is a good thing. Obviously war is 
criticism because of his chosen 
say ROTC has no place at a Christian ' the most desperate sort of diplomacy.
avocation, one must understand pre­
University. On the surface this 
Yet it will not go away simply
cisely what the role of ROTC is at a 
complaint may appear sound. Unfor­
because we close our eyes. The 
university like Notre Dame. 
tunately, with the exception of the 
Soviet-Cuban effort to impose their 
Contrary to popular belief the 
Jehovah's Witnesses and a small 
particular brand of socialism on 
ROTC departments do not show films 
number of other sects, very few 
Angola is evidence enough that the 
of dead, burnt infants and nor do they 
Christian Churches have a consistent 
world is a dangerous place for the 
encourage officer candidates to eat 
doctrine on the morality of war. 
weak. No matter what our policy as a 
raw hamburger and drink goats' 
Each war has different moral 
nation will be in the years ahead, be 
blood. Rather, they familiarize the 
problems attending to it. Christ, 
j it isolationism or a vigorous effort to 
officer candidate with the principles 
after all, when teaching Roman 
assist the world's impoverished mil­
of leadership, personnel manage­
soldiers did not tell them to lay down 
lions, our voice will unheard unless 
ment and the nation's defense poli­
their arms and desert to Outer 
we have the strength and will to 
cies. It is hoped that when a young 
Mongolia; he merely instructed them 
command the ears of tyrants who fear 
man or woman is commissioned he or 
to be kind 'to widows and orphans and 
and respect us. It would be nice if 
she will be able to bring the skills 
not complain about their pay. Nor 
that were not true, but the world is a ,
acquired while earning a degree and 
did He make it a condition that the 
jungle and not an overglorified
the leadership developed in ROTC to 
Centurion resign his commission 
version of the Micky Mouse Club. 
the service of our nations' Armed 
before Christ would consent to heal 1 I hope someday that the nations of 
Forces. It is essential that in a 
his child. Within our ..catholic ; the world will learn to turn their 
democratic society the military lead­
tradition we have St. Thomas i swords into plowshares. That should 
ership be drawn from a pool of 
Aquinas who held to a just war theory 
be the life's work and prayer of every
intelligent, sensitive and educated 
and St. Francis of Xavier who was a 
Notre Dame graduate. Until that day 
young men and women with a variety 
soldier and founded the Jesuits on 
arrives we must deal with the world . 
of academic backgrounds. No nation 
military principles. 
1 on its own terms. I believe that the 
has been as successful as ours in 
Not all persons who criticize ROTC' 
United States, with all our faults, is 
preventing the evolution of an en­
on the grounds of nonviolence are 
still the world's last, best chance and 
trenched military caste, including 
morally grounded in the Christian 
I will be proud to wear the uniform of 
certain so· called "peoples' govern­
Faith. Their reasoning is more 
an officer of the Army of the United 
ments". The Constitution, which 
political than moral. While they pass 
States. We may not be perfect, but 
every officer is sworn to uphold and 
themselves off as firm believers in 
we're the best game in town. 

seriously folks·!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~~~ 
Catch-All Speech 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiart 
buchwald 
WASHINGTON--Under the new financial guidelines of national elections, it is very expensive to hire speech writers for a candidate's primary campaign. Therefore, as a public service, I am submitting an all-purpose speech that any candidate can use in any state primary. 
'My fellow Americans, 
'I can't tell you what a pleasure it is to be here in the (cold) (warmth) of the great state of--------, a state that has given us such great public servants as ----------------, ----------------, ---------------­and, of course, the greatest one of all, ----------------. As I stand here on this --------, I can't help thinking that 200 years ago your ancestors, then a scraggly rabble of colonists armed with nothing but muskets and hayforks, defeated the best troops that George ill could send to the new world. This spirit of '76 still endures in the great state of--------, and I can see on your face the same love of liberty that must have shone on your ancestors' faces when they fought the bloody battles at --------and --------. 
"But I am not here to talk about the past, but the future. I have traveled from one end of the state to the other. I have spoken to your people and I understand your problems. I know the unemployment rate in your state is --------percent. If I am elected I intend to bring it down to --------percent. I have heard your fears about --------. I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that your fears and mine are the same. And the first thing I intend to do after I am sworn in is to attack --------. 
''You have told me how you feel about big government destroying the American spirit. I want you to know I am against big government and I am for the people. 
''The bureaucrats who sit behind their large desks in Washington do not understand the problems of the great state of--------. They have lost touch with the· needs of the people and I make a solemn pledge that, if you choose me as your leader, your voices will be heard in the halls of Congress and the federal agencies that are encroaching on your lives. 
"We must turn big government around. At the same time we must have new federal programs that will serve the people. We must have better --------Jaws, more--------, higher --------for the poor and greater --------for the senior citizens. Our defense must be --------to none. While we should not turn our backs on detente we must be prepared to meet the --------from a position of strength. I intend to cut the fat from our defense budget, but not the muscle. 
"In education I am for quality education for all our students whether or not they are -------, -------, or red. I am -------busing because I believe busing is -------, -------, -------and -------. 
"The one question that the people of the great state of -------have asked me is where I stand on crime. I can tell you today my stand on crime has never wavered. I am against it. And I promise you if I'm elected I will continue to be against it. 
''The American people are entitled to be safe in their -------and int 
the -------. And I intend to do something about it with your help. 
"As the date of your primary election comes nearer I can't help 
thinking of what (a) Thomas Jefferson (b) Abraham lincoln (c) 
Franklin Roosevelt (choose one) said. He said, '<find suitable 
quote).' Every night before I go to bed I repeat those words. 
"I would like to close on a personal note. My wife -------and I would both like to thank you for the great hospitality the people of the great state of-------have shown us. We've put on -------pounds eating your fine-------and-------your -------which is the greatest in the world. As -------said to me just before we went to bed at the motel the other night, 'If this primary lasts much longer and we keep eating more of those tasty-------you're going to have to buy me a whole new wardrobe." (Wait for laugh and standing ovation. Then make wife get up and hug her as you both wave with one hand to the crowd.) 
----~-------------~---­
Wednesday, January 21, 1976 the observer 
5 
Byrne addresses HPC on calendar change 

by Bill Shaughnessy Thanksgiving, thus ensuring a four 
Staff Reporter day Thanksgiving break. 
Concerning the lobbying effort, 
Ed Byrne, speaking as an SLC Byrne pointed with pride to the representative addressed the Hall efforts of Notre Dame students in Presidents Councii(HPC) meeting Indianapolis. "As far as I see it, on the change in next year's there are two causes for optim­academic calendar and the failure ism," he said. First, next year will of the student lobby to lower the not be an election year and drinking age to 19 last night in legislators will not feel so much Howard chapel. constituent pressure. Also, the 
Byrne reported the Academic schools will have another year to Council had voted to replace the work for the bill," Byrne added. Friday class day after Thanksgiving HPC President Elton Johnson with a Saturday class day. He said a General Guideline of Alcohol assured the Council that this class policies was compiled from rules day would not be the Saturday after received from each dorm. Letters 
Women's Caucus seeks Indiana passage of ERA 
by Cathy Cannon Staff Reporter 
The passage of ERA is the number one priority of the Womens Political Caucus, according to Paula Auburn, president of the South Bend Chapter of the National Organization of Women (NOW). 
"Indiana is a key state for ERA. Unless it goes through next year, it probably won't," Auburn said. 
The Indiana Political Caucus is 
concentrating on finding candidate 
for the state legislature who sup­
port ERA and can win, Auburn 
explained. 
Auburn spoke last night to the 
SMC-N D Women's Caucus for the 
197b Democratic Mock Convention. 
She told the members of the 
caucus to educate themselves on 
the issues that will be raised in the 
convention. She said, ''A lot of the 
work with the delegates will be 
similar to collective bargaining: 
Decide on priorities but keep an 
eye on reality." 
NOW organized the National Women's Caucus in 1971 to give women an entrance into political parties. The caucus also hopes to make women realize the only way to bring about change is to become involved in politics. 
The caucus is organized on the 
state level and made up of inde­
pendent chapters within the state, Auburn explained. "Right now we're trying to backtrack locally. We think the reason many women don't get involved in politics is because they don't know how. We're trying to educate women." 
Auburn discussed some of the specific problems the caucus mem­bers may encounter while lobbying 
One of the main problem!. will be economic, Auburn said. "You will hear more and more arguments about women taking money from breadwinners," she explained. 
Auburn said most politicians will 
avoid the issue of abortion because 
it is surrounded by propaganda and 
emotion. 
Auburn stressed the importance of working for the candidates who support the caucus stand on the issues rather than the issues them­selves. She explained, "Most of the time the issues are forgotten in the platform." 
The SMC-ND Women's Caucus is open to both Notre Dame and St. Mary's women. 

containing these guidelines were 
sent to Fr. Hesburgh, Fr. Burt­
chaell, Brother Just and Dean 
Roemer. 
Johnson also outlined plans for a 
monthly discussion group com­
posed of 63 section leaders, three 
from each hall. The section leaders 
will be split into smaller groups 
Law students win competition 
Law students at the University of Notre Dame are winners of the Region Four National Inter-Law School Mock Trial Competition and will advance to the national finals scheduled next month in Houston, Texas. The regional elimination was conducted at Wayne State University in Detroit. 
Each team in the competition was given an established case to be tried before a panel of judges that include State and Federal judges, as well as local attorneys. Student presentations covered basic princi­ples of trial practice including an opening statement, direct and cro­ss-examination of two witnesses, objections and a closing argument. 
Members of the Notre Dame team are David Bottger, Columbus, Ohio; William Kane, Hayes, Kan.; Nancy O'Connor, Rockville, Md.; James Guarino, Middleton, Conn.; and Mike Hanley, Newport, Vt. Dr. James H. Seckinger is faculty advisor to the group. 
Earlier this month, Notre Dame law students placed fourth in the National Moot Court competition. 
Pipes 
Papers 'Etc. 
newstand and general store 113 w. monroe st.
~jCOQCOOOC~COCC~~Je:~~~KX~~ 
Getm~out 
ofyourlast2years
ofcollege. 
If for some reason you missed taking Army ROTC in your first two years of college, you can still take it in your last two. But only if you apply while you're still a sophomore. 
In order to make up for the years you missed, you'll have to attend a special camp in the summer before your junior year. You'll earn up to a total of $2,900 in the Two-Year Program. You'll get some good management experience. And you'll get a commis­sion as an Army officer along with a college degree. 
,--------------------------,
Am1y ROTC Nctre Dame, IN 46556 
Please send me more information about the Army ROTC Two.Year Program. 
Ms.
Mr._____________________ Address____________________ City_________County::____________ State_______Zip_____Phone______ College Attending_________________ Graduation Date__________________ 
@TheArmy ROTC 'IWo-\'ear Program 
"Under the authority of Title 10, USC 2101-2111, your address Is needed to provide you materials on the Army ROTC program. Completion of this form Is voluntary. Not completing this form will prevent us from mailing you material. Information obtained will be used tor ROTC enrollment 
purposes."
I 1 
where common problems will be that the HPC can act upon."
discussed. Mike Casey, President of Pang­"The purpose of the discus­born, was appointed to establish sions," Johnson said "will be to informal ties with the Hall Pres­get more feedback from the stu­idents of St. Mary's and invite 
dents and to provide information them to the next HPC meeting. 
~ 
~ 
I l l I 
l 
I 
l 
j 
I 
l 
~ 
l l I 
j I I 
j 
l 
l I l 
~ 
j l 
I 
,.. 
Why is everyone after ftiB a laff panicGoorge_SegalS n bird? BLACKBIRD SPECIAL MIDNIGHT SHOWS -­F'RI. SAT. THE MOTHERS OF INVENTION FRANK ZAPP~S~IO" ..."\QOIM1E•REDUCED ·. : '­. PRICE! ~ \. : . . SPRING WHITE SALE AT STEAMBOAT 20-40%0FF! A Spring vacation week of good skiing between .March 27 and April17 ..• as low as $99* Continental Airlines' Spring White Sale includes 7 nights lodging and 6-day lift ticket. And save 25% with Continental's special low tour­basing air fare. Transportation from Denver to '­Steamboat available via Rocky Mountain Airways or skierized Avis rental car. Special social . . , .. events at Steamboat, plus free ," • o; 1. drawings for Lange ski equip­! ment and other great prizes. 1 ,. JCharge it all on your Ameri­...,J· can Express Card. For more information, send in the coupon, or call your Continental Holiday Specialist or your travel agent. _______._..,._ ____________ Continental Airlines UND P. 0. Box 9000, Van Nuys, California 91406 Please send me more information on your Spring White Sale. Name---~-------·-· ·-·------·--·-··-···· Address ··----·· -·­City_____.State____... Zip_....;...____.... Phone My Travel Agent is--········-­ 

Wednesday, January 21, 1976
the observer 
Student extra-curricular readings are varied 
by Karen Sikorski Department · at the Notre Dame selling in large numbers are Belter cals of the library named Time, men do not purchase magazinesStaff Reporter Bookstore, feels that student Skelter by Vincent Bugliosi and Newsweek, and Sports IDustrated directed toward women (such as Science fiction and the news preferences generally reflect nat­Solzhenitsyn's The Gulag Archipe­as the most widely read magazines. Redbook or McCall's), many wo­
ional trends. To find out what lago n.
occupy most students' outside Other choices varied according to men buy sports publications.
students are reading she said, Pandora's Books also serves
reading time, according to various individual fields of study or special 
In the Periodicals Center, assist­
"one only has to look at the Best much of the student body. Mana­
suppliers of student reading mat­interests, such as tennis or golf. 
ant librarian Marilyn Cervigni ob­
Seller List of the New York Times ger Bruce Seal does not believe
ter. Taste in books varies greatly, 
Tom Grogan, manager of the served that most men ask for Time,
or PubUshers' Wee~y." that the national taste in books
science' fiction being the most 
while most women read Newsweek.
influences student choices. "Peo­Huddle, commented that although
popular topic, and the most widely Books on Psychology are favored ple don't pay attention to what's
read magazines are news publica­in the non-fiction category. Includ­selling," he said. "Many studentstions: Time, Newsweek, and ed are The TM Book by Denniston buy a book because someone hasSports mustrated. and McWilliams and Martin read it and recommended it to
Pat Vanek, head of the Book Ebon's TM: How To Find Peace of them."
Mind Through Meditation, as well 
He agreed that science fiction 
as several books on transactional 
books are currently favored by
Seats available analysis and assertiveness train­students, and cited other popular titles such as Fear of Flying by
for Senior trip ing. 
Some of the science fiction Erica Jong and Woody Allen's offerings are The Best of Isaac Getting Even. Neither Manek nor by Ken Bradford 
Asimov and The Outer Space Seal found significant differences Copy Editor Connection by Alan and Sally in taste between men and women. Landsburg. Other books which are Both the Huddle and the Periodi­
Fifty-three plane seats are still available for the Senior Class Trip 
Advisory Council reviews
to Freeport in The Bahamas and they're not expected to last long. 
past semester problems
The Senior Class has collected deposit money from 210 seniors for by Peter Arndt Convocation for the Freshman on
the March 13-20 trip. The total price for the trip package is $285, Staff Reporter the Dean's Honor List. Information concerning these functions will be
which includes plane fare, hotel The Freshman Advisory Council discussed in future Newsletters.
accommodations and various parti­es on the island. met yesterday to discuss the gene­
A major part of the meeting was ral outline of business of the 
taken up planning the Notre Dame­Senior Class President Augie 
Freshman Class, Dean Emil Hofm­
St. Mary's Freshman Semi-Formal,Grace urged seniors who are an reported yesterday tentatively scheduled for April 2nd.
considering the trip to make their 
The Council, set up by Hofman Dance Committee Chairman Timdeposits as soon as possible. 
to review and discuss specifically Beaty, Freshman Representative·'Those last 53 seats are going to freshman problems and suggestio­from Dillon Hall worked in conjunc­be taken very quickly," Grace said. 
ns, reviewed the past year and the tion with St. Mary's Freshman According to Grace-, over one beginning of this semester in order Council, headed by Terry Tuohyhundred reservations were made to find out if any great difficulty and Natalie ross to come up with during the last three da)'S of the occurred for the freshman, in either possible locations for the dance. 
semester. "Everyone seems to academics or school life.
have waited to see who else is The ACC Concourse was finally going before they make their own Points brought up by the council agreed on and was voted unanimo­arrangements," Grace stated. "N­members, consisting of one fresh­usly by the council. Tickets will ow that so many people are going, I man representative from each hall, range anywhere from five to seven am confident that those remaining ranged form the difficulty in acqu­dollars, which will include refres­
seats will be filled soon." iring wanted theology courses to ments and entertainment. Commit­why a student is not allowed to tees for various functions of the
Grace said the goal of the trip 
change class sections. H f "d dance were appointed by the
planners was to provide the seniors oman sat council. Kris Quann from Farley
with the maximum enjoyment at a •'The reason for the difficulty Hall is handling refreshments andminimal cost. The officers ·are still getting theology courses was beca­Pete Arndt from Planner Hall isnegotiating for special golf and use of the number of spaces working on publicity.
tennis privileges, meal arrangeme­available. Concerning changing cl­nts, and discounts on tours and ass sections," Hofman said, "the Freshman Council President Da­sporting events as well as an individual departments made limits vid M. Leibowitz said, •'The Fres­evening at the El Casino. for the number of sections for a hman Class of N.D. is, through this 
Arrangements have also been course and the number of students event, striving to become an active per section depending upon the
made to provide bus transportation functioning part of the student 
nature of the discipline."
to the chartered planes in Chicago. body." Th" d h" h · h
IS ance, W IC IS t e 
Reservation deposits may be left Also discussed at the meeting first of its kind planned for freshm­at the Student Activities Office in was the process of transition for an year, expects about 350 couples LaFortune or mailed to the Class of next semester, a future meeting to attend. "The possibility offuture '76, Box 114, Notre Dame. Any between the Freshman Council and similar freshman class activities openings left after Friday will be the University Committee for the hinges on the success of this dance, offered to underclassmen. Freshman Year, and an Honors Leibowitz said. 
Students form sociology honor society 
Twenty undergraduate and grad-and universities in Ohio, Kentucky, Students wishing to participate uate students in Sociology met on Illinois, Michigan and Indiana. in the program are asked to Monday, Jan. 19, to organize Invitations have been extended to contact any of the AKD officers of 
t 
r..... \
I·····~I ~ir Richard's 
~-~ BARBER STYLING 


UNISEX HAIR SULING 
129 DIXIEWAY SOUTH ROSElAND IN PORTAGE R£AL.n BUILDING 277..0734 
Call 233-6161 NOW! DORM DOOR DELIVERY 
Alpha Kappa Delta (AKD), the 103 institutions to send students Prof. Donald N. Barrett, Director of :LIKE TO JOIN THE ZANIEST AND 
local chapter of the national sociol-who will come to read and discuss the Undergraduate Program in the 
ogy honor society. their research papers in any subject Department of Sociology and Anth-LEAST TALENTED, BUT MOST ENERGETIC, Significant academic achieve-of sociological interest. ropology. 
• HAPPY, INANE, IRISH-SPIRITED AND
ment _is requi~ed for membership. ..-.................... 
At thts meetmg two undergradu-
St d t u • •••• ·FRIENDLY GROUP OF FROLIC-THROWERS
ates and two graduate students were • 
elected officers: Robert Tauro, • U en nton • • ???????????
President, Robert Teitler, Vice 
• AT NOTRE DAME . · · · · · · · · · · 
President, Laura Dodge, secretary, t Book Exchange t 
and Larry Boren, Treasurer. All • • THEN DON'T MISS THE 
sociology students with good aca­
demic averages are invited to join • k $ Id b k • ••
duringthenextweek. Applications • piC Up money UOSQ 00 5. • will be accepted until Friday, January 31. : • AKD is already planning its first 
Wednesday Jan 21 3-5 pm. 
••• AN
major activity, a convention of • undergraduate and graduate stud-• • 11
ents in sociology from the cn eges t Thursday Jan 22 7-9 pm. 
ARCHITECTURAL & • • MODEL SUPPLIES • ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥•••••••• ¥¥¥¥ • 
••••• •• TOSTAL ••• • •• •
sTnucT~:~ s;::~s : Allunclaimedbooks become : COMMITTEE MEETING 
~o/l •. thepropertyofthe • THURSDAY NIGHT AT NINE •••••
HOBBY SHOP INC. • 713 NORTH MAIN ST, • • 
MISHAWAKA, IND. t Student Union on Friday Jan. 23.t •• LAFORTUNE BALLROOM • 
46544 • .... 
PHONE ·255<-~nu · · ··············••••••""' • 

---------~---~--------------------------, 
Wednesday, January21, 1976 the observer 
7 
N!?,"..!Jle~.!Q;.m.,P.~w~"~~R!.~~~~~~-AJ2!m~.~!!~~ ND
Staff Reporter years ago there w~re 99 men for may be as sho~ as five minutes. usuall.y shown at halftime to dis-student publications are used to 
The Information Service Center, ordained by the University, is in charge of the operation to produce 
an updated, multi-media presenta­
tion based on life at Notre Dame. 
Mr. Jay J. Kane, Assistant Director of Information Center, gave a general explanation of the purpose of the program, "Pictures go out of date so fast th~t we must continually update them tn order to portray the proper image of the every woman walktng around on campus. That picture has changed considerably, so we have to update it," Kay explained. 
"This program is not a new one. We have had to update our presentations in the past and we will continue to update them in the future. We are trying to get the latest sights and sounds of Notre Dame," he added. . 
These film and shde presenta­tions usually run from twenty-thirty The presentatiOns are used at various activities throughout the country. Speakers from the univ­ersity travel to the 176 N.D. clubs in the United States and use these films and slides in their presenta­tions. Football highlights will be shown often at these Club meet­ings. 
These films are also used at the different college nights throughout the country. Or, when the T.V.net­works need something for the play hfe at Notre Dame. 
Kane explained a final use of these presentations, "If there are any groups visiting the campus during the summer we try and throw something together for them," he said. "We also used a film entitled, 'N.D. in Review', which we ran before the home football games this past season at help the Information Service re­ceive the latest pictures. The student's photographers usually include scenes of different classes, laboratories, halls and libraries. These photographers hope to cap­ture the general picture of life at Notre Dame. 
Washington  Hall,"  Kane  com  
mented.  
The  materials  used  for  these  

Kane concluded, "We are proud of such things as the heart valve and germ free systems being researched here. We want other people to know about these 
presentations are gathered by N.D. things." 
Freeze fatalities expected r--BREW~-s-RUiNS___l 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. <AP) ers. The cold can kill in less -Scores of people will die this than twu hours at outside tern-winter, victims of a silent killer peratures well above freezing. 
called hypothermia, sometimes In 1975 it killed 29 in New Mexi­known as freezing to death. co alone. Hunters, hikers and lost chi!-Cold weather survival experts dren frequently are candidates. say man!' of the deaths could 
So are stranded motorists, have been prevented if the Yic­
plane crash victims and alco-tims had known a few tricks holies who pass out in snow-about staying alive in the cold: banks. building a fire in wet condi-
The body temperature low-tions, wearing woolen clothing 
ND wrest1ers on road 
The Notre Dame wrestling team needed only 1:37 of match time to 
will be on the road this week, register two first-period pins.traveling to Cleveland State Wed­McKillen, Mike Merriman (126(nesday and further east to meet and Joe Pszeracki (190) also had Slippery Rock State Thursday. one pin as the Irish routed De­
The Irish come off a very Pauw, 40-3, and clipped Middle successful weekend which saw Tennessee State, 21-19. them boost their dual meet record The Irish of Coach Ray Sepeta 
to 4-5 with a double-dual meet will be looking to even this record sweep over DePauw University when they take on the Vikings of and Middle Tenessee State. Dan Cleveland State at 7:30p.m. Wed­Heffernan (134), Pat McKillen 
ne~day. The Thursday meet at (150), John Dowd (167), Rob Dreg­Slippery Rock will also have a 7:30 er (177) and Bob Colic (HWT) were 
start.
all double winners for the Irish. 
The Irish will then enjoy a weekGolic, a freshman making his Notre off, their next meet being onDame wrestling debut was most January 29th at home againstimpressive. The Ohio high school Drake University
heavyweight champion of last year 

WANTED 
Need 4 tickets to Maryland game. Call 
Mike after 6 p.m. 288-0088. ..klhn desperately needs 3 UCLA tix ­student or GA . will pay! 3015. 
1\eed 2 UCLA tix. Call Frank 1589. 
2 UCLA tix needed·. Student or G. A. Call .be 3689. wanted: 2 UCLA tix and any number 
IV'Brquette tix. Call john 8168. 
If you're 
Need 4th roorrmale. Campus View Apts. 272-6639. Student preferred. 
good enough, you can be a 
St. Mary's needs a new editor tor the 1977 yeartJook.. If interested in applying,
Navy Nuclear 
please 5e'1d resurre to Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, L.eMa\s Hall, SMC, by Nlonday,
Officer. 
Jan. 26. 
The Navy needs some very special college graduates 
Need UCLA tid<ets. ..kle or Marly 287-5113.
who aren't afraid to find out how good they really are. Who will consider our extensive 
Desperately need 1 UCLA ticket! Will and demanding training pro­
barter... gram, the most exciting chal­
Call Entty, 287-8826. lenge of their lives. A challenge that leads to an exciting future 
Need 5 UCLA tickets! Call Martha iii 
as a Naval Officer aboard a 
5437. nuclear-powered surface ship or submarine. Find out more from your 
The Mod< Convention is in need of stenogrcp,ers illd typists. Pay is negoti­
local recruiter, or call toll-free 
ble acCDI"ding to abilities. Call 8407, 8309,
800-841-8000. 
8311. 
Be Someone 
Need t'Ml DePWI or Marquette tid<els. Mary 1285.
Special in the Navy. 
Willted Female housemate to share
LT BilL HUGHES 
house 21/4 blocl<s from Angelal/&lotre Darre Aw. inlersection. Call 289·4303
OFFICER PROGRAMS 
between 5 p.m. Cl1d 10 p.m.
BUllDING41 NAS GlENVIEWI IL 60026 
Desperately need Marquette tickets. Call 
Mike 8720.
OR CAlL COillrl': 
312--657-2170--2171 
that retains its insulation value when wet, carrying food and finding shelter out of the wind. 
The National Ski Patrol, in its winter first aid manual, says mental confusion sets in 
when the body temperature
falls from the normal 98.6 de­grees. 
By the time it reaches 95 de­grees, the manual says, the vic­tim might be unable to speak 
clearly and might find u diffi­cult to walk. The victim also might not be aware of what is 
ha.fg:ni~e~ot h~rr· a cold death isn't always apparent to those setting out on a hunting, hiking or any kind of winter ex­
cursion. The Ski Patrol manual says that as the body temperature
sinks below 90 degrees, shiver­ing ceases and muscles become 
in*'~:sing~Ic~~id. loses con­
sciousness below 81 degrees, and the heart may stop when 
the temperature sinks below 71. New Mexico Medical Exam­
iner James Weston says the
victimbefore hemightdies even feel warm 
ARM0 RY DANCE f f 
JAN. 23 8:30-1 :00 ' 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT ' ' ' 
f LAFORTUNE f 
' ' 
S U TICKET OFFICE ( 11 4) ' 
" • -t' 
SMC DORM LOBBIES ( 6-7) t
f JAN. 21 1 22 23 f
1 
f
f P'DJ:C'I:" $3.00 TIC'UI:"'rSLlM..,...,..'ED
' fiJ1 ~..:.: I. Jl n.L:.I. ' I. I. • 
f 
' t t ALLMUSTSHOWSTIJDFNTI.D. t 1 
ANDRLD,r:::Burcr:::s t
I C.:. ~L· 
t 
f ..._ FQIDADMJ'r'T"An J JrllJ\.T.C'f:l ~~ C:. ·'·'·' _ t
' ________________ 
Classified Ads 
Need 4 fv\a'quette tickets. Call Pat 4-4161. 
Need 1-12 G.A. UCLA tix. Call Chris. 
4-4608. 
Need 2 Mci'Quette student tix. Will pay or exchange for UCLA, Maryland, or other tix. Maureen 4047. 
Desperalety need 2 tix tor Marquette. Call1341. 
willt to buy books tor American Preside­ncy rourse. George 289-8948. 
Will be diSOV>fied if I don't get 3 Marquette B-Ball tlx. Call Eileen 6798. 
Need 4 tid<ets to MaryiCild game. Please call ~Y 4-4198. 
Need 2 Davidson tix tor parents. Call Mike 1624. 
Need fiw UCLA tickets. Call Mike 287·3897. 
Need ride to Chicago Fri. or Sat. Please call 3216. 
R>RSAL£ 
For Sale '73 Renault 4-door. $1700. Call 3260. 
COUCHES -$20.$30. Frej! delivery to dorm. Call Mrs. Cooper. 27:1-3004. 
For Sale Pillasonic SA-6800X 4-dlill­nel recei\oer with SQ deroder. Call Greg 3361. 
For Sale Henke ski boots, size 8. Good CDnditia1. Call Ray, 1754. 
I 
I Rtir deiied Remington snow's. Mounted Olevy rally \Mleels. F-70-14. 28,·8063. ~ 
For Sale Calrulator at less thill half original price. 3248, 134 Keenill. 
R)RREI, r 
MUST sublet spacious, one· bedroom Crestv.ood Apt. Price negotiable. 277­0648. 
i 
For Rent L.a"ge house . 1 acre, 5 min. walk 1o N.D. A·bedS abail. 701 St. Vincent. leave name & li'aat Observer 
• office. 
: 
For Rmt:Availablenow. L.a"ge furnished house suitable for 5 students. $200 per month. All utilities induded. Call 289· 8262 or 234·2212. 
Rent my upstairs $50. 233-1329. Patty. 
House fa" Rent: Partially furnished. Extremely reasonable. 233·2613. 
Coun1ryhouse torrent. Very reasonable. Twelve minutes travel. 233·2613. 
Rent my upstairs. $50111n:lnth. 233·1329. 
NOTICiiS 
THE ALBUM HOUR IS COMING. 
Will do typing, experienced. Term papers manusoipts, etc. Call 233·8512. 
For horre delivery Of the Chicago Tribune, call Bill 8659. 
Student Government T-Shirt Agency-top quality & low prices on wstom made T-Shirts, call David Bossy, 233-3647. Ideal for donritories and dubs. 
Aa:urcie, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho, 232·0746. 
. ' 
Your Kind of People · Serious high.fidelity SOU1d system; to keep ~u loose, yet at a price that IMll1't 
get ~u uptight. Stereo CD~ents 20114 . 40'14 diSCDUnt. RMS Audio 
321 S. Main South Bend, Ind. 
Greyhound Bus to Chicago. Leaves Main 
Cirde every Aiday at 5:45. Call Tom at 
8338. 
LOST&IOUND 
Ring lost. It's only a reconstituted ruby, but it has sentimental value. Call Jeff. 1857. 
Lost: Calrulator, checkbook. other item; of value in plastic box in back of Stillford. 
Please call 8739. 
LDst: A blue striped flannel shirt wi1h a new pair of glasses in the pod<ets · near the ACC Thursday affemoon, Jan. 14th. Reward. Call 287-0016. 
Lost: AJffy black ski mit ~s. My hillds are rold; finder or thief cc.l 4-4608. 
PERSONALS 
A weiCDil"e back to Anne BlCI'lford. 
Namaste. 
The Quad. 
Char1i~ 
I'm alright. Do as they say, & everything will be tine . LDw, Bubbles. 
-
Would '100 like to read RnnegCI'lS WfU with me? Ilk> a-edit. Ilk> value. Evet')ooe invited ~faculty). Room331 O'ShaJ­
ghnessy. 7:30 p.m. every Wemesday starting .JCI'luary 21. EJCll£0. 
..J 
by Tom Kruczek 
~ 
There is something about big games that just seems to get the
~ 
Irish foe for this evening, St. Joseph's College, aroused-some­times. Take the Marquette game
t 
I 
of this year for example. The Pumas played the Warriors even 
throughout much of the contest.
I 
With just 12 minutes to play in the game, the Pumas trailed by S
' I 
I 
points before Marquette came back to win by 25. Then against 
Cincinnati, another formidable foe, 
I 
the Pumas fell behind early, and
l 
were beaten 120-49.
I 
These two games seem to point
I 
the sort of season that St. Joe's has 
~ 
been having. With an 9-5 record,
I 
Coach John Weinert is trying to
I 
rebuild a team that was hurt by
I 
graduation. The biggest part of the graduation wound was left by the departure of all-time Puma leading scorer Jim Thordsen. Last year Thordsen led his team to a 21-7 record, and lost to Notre Dame by just 16 points.
• 
.,·.' \\ 
the observer Wednesday, January 21, 1976
8 
Irish host Pumas tonight 

Forming the nucleus bf the team 28.8 points per game and 9.4
is the guard spot. Duane Gray(6-1) rebounds a game, to lead the teamand Gerry Klamrowski(6-1) both in that department as well. Therereturning from last year's team is a large gulf between Dantley and with experience, average 20 and 12 the next scorer on the team, Donpoints per game, respectively. 
(Duck) Williams at 9.1 points perKlamrowski also hits at a 57% clip game. Tonight, however could befrom the field. Gray will be looked one of those nights where everyone on, however, as the primary out­gets a chance to pad their pointside threat. 
figures.
At forward, Kyle Wiggs(6-6) will After the Notre Dame game, thehold down one of the spots, while Pumas will take on DePauw onfour others rotate between the Saturdav and Evansville the follow­second~ forward and center. 
ing Wednesday. Major games leftWiggs averages 17 points per for the Pumas later in the seasongame, and is the team's leading include Butler, Valparaiso1, and arebounder, averaging 10 per game. 
final game against St. Bonaven­Ray Johnson(6-7), Bobby Dalton(6­ture.
S), Tom Gallant(6-3) and Greg Following this game, UCLA willStegeman(6-6) will be the rotating invade the ACC on Saturday for acrew. 
nationally televised encounter, andThe Irish on the other hand are the days of padding point totals will now 9-3 and have shown steady be over. After the Bruins, DePaulimprovement in their last four comes to town and then on the final games since being drubbed by day of January, Maryland finish<.:"
UCLA. Dantley, currently the out the intensive three-game siege number three scorer in the country, of South Bend. 
comes into the contest averaging 
Tonight's game will be broadcast live by WSND, with John Vasso and Tim Baily covering the action. New Irish assistant coach Dick Kuchen watches the team as 
Tip-off is at 8 p.m. prepare for St. Joseph's. they 
by Ernie Torriero 
If you ask Digger Phelps about his two assistant coaches, he will
Sports 
certainly claim they are among the finest in the land. So when one of Phelps' trusted companions, Dick DiBiaso left to preach his hardwood philosophy to the masses at Stan­
:;:;:;.;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;: 
Shakeup in baseball near? 
:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;~:~:~by Tom Kruczek~:::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:; 
*Observer 
Kuchen getting settled at ND 
June f f d . 19• 1972 wa~ a ate u1 ay for professiOnal 
~ase~a~l j.laye~ ..J'hts ~?s the d~ that_ the Supreme C~~; Fl e ~ere ~ s ?PtKmohn onTht. e antitrust case of oo vs. owte u n. ts was the day that baseball owners fo~nd that they were at the top of the hea~. They were ?tffe~ent from other sports and were 1estt~~d ~~ r:mam dtrt:ere~t ~y virtue of a decision 
rom e tg est court m. t e and. As g~od of a day as tt was for owners, for the players tt becam~ a day to forget. The players found 
out that th~ antttrust _laws that apply to all other mh~ney makdtngtchomttphanbtes, bdo not apply to baseball.T ts was a ay a e ase a11 payers found out that 
1 they would not have the freedom to move as they pleased, but would instead have to listen to the edicts of the owners. 
Prof. Francis X. Beytagh of the Law School, urged that the Supreme Court's decision be read in order to fully understand the subtle difference that exists between baseball and all other sports. 
The antitrust suit was brought by Flood against the Commissioner of Baseball, the presidents of the two major leagues, and the 24 major league clubs. The reason for the suit was that Flood was traded from the St. Louis Cardinals to the Philadelphia Phillies in 1970 without his permission. Flood had sought to be ?eclared a free agent by Kuhn but was refused, which m essence was a challenge to the reserve clause which binds one player to a team. 
In a lengthy decision written by Justice Harryt 
Blackmun 1 the decision was rendered that "the longstanding exemption of professional baseball's reserve system from federal antitrust laws is an established aberration.'' The Court decided that the matter was for legislative, not judicial resolution. 
The court ruled that baseball is a business and it is engaged in interstate commerce, but its reserve system does enjoy an exemption from federal antitrust hws, baseball then is "an exception and an anomaly." 
They also called it an aberration that has been with us now for half a century and entitled to the benefits of one tLat has survived the Court's expanding concept o·' interstate commerce. They also list other professional sports such as football, boxing, basketba­ll, hockey and golf which are not exempt. 
Blackmun sums the case with the statement "tha~ the reserve system is a mandatory subject of collective 
-
bargaining and that federal labor policy therefore exempts the reserve system from the operation of fedceral;mti1rust laws." 
As far as the Supreme Court was concerned the
.. 
reserve clause was necessary only for baseball. But that was four years ago. In the current case of Messersmith and McNally, and the arbitration of Seitz, Kuhn contends that Seitz had no right to rule on 
an issue of such broad impact on the foundation of the game. Baseball is the great American pasttime and 
has existed for years when football was just a gleam in George Halas' eye. Baseball was here first, so they get their reserve clause. 
If that sounds a little strange, it's because it is strange. Blackmun covered that too in writing that any inconsistency or illogic is to be remedied by the Congress and not by the Supreme Court." 
The ball was then clearly put back into the Ia of Congress. Congress was confused on the ma~er finally not making any legislation on the subject. S~ baseball stayed with its unique situation, until this 
year. But baseball is appealing the ·decision of the arbitrator in a federal court in Kansas City. The grounds they are arguing the appeal is the only one open to them, that of proven bias on the part of the arbitrator. Seitz contended though, after he was fired by baseball, that he did not rule on the reserve clause, but on that of a man's freedom when he is no longer bound by contract. Baseball, like football has one avenue open to them even before the court's rule. That avenue is negotiation, and Beytagh agreed that that will probably be the route taken in both cases. Baseball's players' contract expired December 31, the same day coincidentally that Larson's ruling hit the newspapers. If the players association is unable to reach an agreement with the owners before spring training, a strike will probably be the result. Kuhn is denouncing the ruling as bad for baseball, bad for the new contract negotiations, and presumab­ly bad for mother and apple pie as well. Critics have been •quick. to point out that Kuhn and his football counterpart Rozelle are over-reacting just as Ed Garvey and the players associations position that no harm will result may be extreme as well. The real answer is somewhere in that gray area in the middle. In regard to the entire muddle of legal arguments, Beytagh did point out that ''all of the rulings are such as Judge Larson's, is a preliminary determination of law, and with the entire litigation ahead, it will be a long way off before a final determination of the case is reached." And when will that final determination be reached? ''It probably will come in the form of baseball and football negotiating with the players associaitons and reachin~ an agreement that way," Beytagh said. . If sp<!rts does waft until the courts make thetr final rul_ing, then as Beytagh pointed out, the reserve clause JUst may be found to violate the freedom of players and that antitrust legislation does apply. Then perhaps the nature of sports will change. But by then it will be too late for the George Halas's or Walter O'Malley's to do a damn thing about it. 
ford, Digger was left with the difficult decision of quickly finding a replacement. The man he chose to fill the void was Dick Kuchen then an assistant at Iowa. ' 
"When Digger called and said 
the job was open,'' Kuchen ex­
plains, ''we were in the middle of 
recruiting at"lowa. I knew most of 
~:t:=~~~~~s~at a~~:~ ~~!~he~dit~ 
could finish my obligations here at 
Iowa." 
Phelps was most understanding 
of the situation and Kuchen feels a 
lot of the credit for that goes to 
Digger's other assistant, Frank 
McLaughlin. 
"Frank did just a great job in 
lining up the high school kids we 
really wanted to go after," says 
Kuchen. "When I got here I knew 
the three freshmen we recruited 
would be of great help to us this 
year." 
Kuchen and Phelps go back to 
the glory days of Rider College, the 
tiny school in Lawrenceville, N.J. 
which gained national prominence 
through a stunning upset of the 
N.Y.U. Violets in 1964. 
''Digger was a senior when I w.: ~ 
a freshman at Rider," relates 
Kuchen. "He scouted NYU as a 
graduate assistant. Our win ended 
the Violets homecourt winning 
streak. They hadn't lost there 
since 1941. " 
Kuchen neglected to point out 
that it was his last second free 
throws which iced the game. He 
also sometimes forgets that he is 
the school's third leading scorer 
and all-time rebounder. 
"Sure that was a great time in 
my life," the 6'8", 235 pound 
Kuchen concurs."Yet the records 
are not really that important. What 
is important is the people that I met 
and the long-lasting friendships 
which grew out of Rider. The 
tendency is to forget about the 
human experience and remember 
records." 
Kuchen certainly is well versed in the human experience, as his biography makes for interesting reading. After a brief try with the then St. Louis Hawks, Kuchen hooked on with a team of all-stars which traveled throughout Europe sponsored by the Gulf Oil Corpora­
tion. After a six month stint, the squad returned home with an 84-6 mark. 
"I quickly came to find," he explains, "that despite a language barrier, sport is a common denom­
inator between people who were brougnt up in different lands. The interests, intensities and emotions are similar. The competition was intense. Yet we all got along. It makes me wonder why if we can get along in that type of situation why we can't get along all the ' time: 
Upon his return-from Europe, Kuchen became associated with 
the Pittsburgh Pipers of the ABA. "I wasn't able to stay with the parent club," he points out. "So I got a job as a chemical salesman while playing with the Columbus Comets on the weekends. After doing that for a while, I found the traveling to be too much." ''Someone approached me from the Art Institute in Pittsburgh," Kuchen says of his next stop. "He was starting a basketball team and asked if I was interested in the coaching job. At the end of the year we finished second in the National Little College Tourney in Tennessee." Later that same year, Kuchen taught music to high school students while attending Mammouth Col­lege for master's work. But he was to last only six months on the shores of New Jersey. For it was at Washington Univer­sity in St. Louis where the well­traveled Kuchen landed one of ti">e most unique jobs in sport. "They needed an assistant basketball coach," he remembers," and the Sports Information job was also open. It ended up that I took both those, jobs plus the job of head golf coach." "Sure it was hectic," Kuchen admits. "During the football season I wrote releases and held press conferences. During the basketball season my assistant Jid most of the information work." Yet when the call came frum Iowa City, Kuchen accepted with readiness. "I really enjoyed the five years I spent at Iowa,'' Kuchen smiles. "I just hope I was able to make a contribution to the program there. I wouldn't h~ve left Iowa for many other jobs." "There are two main reasons I came to Notre Dame," he adds. "First there was the tremendous prestige and quality of the univer­sity. Secondly, I had a lot of respect for Digger and his coaching abilities." The blond-haired, 31 year-old bachelor notices no difference in coaching here at Notre Dame. ''The ability of the players changes he admits. "But the enjoyment level of coaching is always the same for me. There might be more exposure here at Notre Dame and I :1sually don't notice that." Kuchen is more than satisfied with the talent he has to work with at Notre Dame. "We couldn't expect a better group of players to work with," he says of his Notre Dame men. "They are good people with a great team attitude." In these days of increased speci­alization, Kuchen is probably the only musically inclined, former sports information director who coaches big-time college basketball It may be that Kuchen, a man Qf many moves, has finally found a place to stay. 
