

e server 

university of notre dome st mary's college 
Vol. X, No. 82 Tuesday, February 10, 1976 
Hearst on revolutionary Tania: 
''I was told I would be killed'' ­teenager Tom Matthews · was to be on April 15, 1974, but said she was
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Patricia . the first government witness when forced to do so by her SLA captors.
Hearst testified Monday that her the hearing resumed Tuesday. "I was told I would be killed,"
terrorist kidnapers sexually assaulted her and forced her by 
Also, it was learned that three she said as she incriminated a long other witnesses would testify about list of participants in her violentthreat of death into posing as the 
bank-robbing revolutionary seeing a docile Miss Heart in an underground odyssey and, under "Tania." SLA hideout after the kidnap. questioning, told of being assault­ed by someone she once described
In a dramatic day of testimony However, Susan Jordan, an atto­as "the gentlest, most beautifulwith the jury absent, Miss Hearst rney for two of the three, said later man I've ever known."
said William Wolfe, the Symbion­her clients would take the 5th ''Did you have any affection foresc Liberation Army "soldier" for Amendment. "They simply do not William Wolfe?" asked her attor­whom she once declared her love, choose to be government witnes­ney, F.Lee Bailey.
was only the first of a number of ses," she said. 
"No," she replied.

SLA members to attack her sex­The testimony was expected to 
ually. be followed by arguments on " Did William Wolfe do anything to you?" Bailey then asked.
The 21-year-old defendant ans­whether to admit the evidence. 
Miss Hearst paused and appear­wered questions for nearly four There was no indication when U.S. 

ed to swallow hard. Then she saidhours at a hearing to decide District Court Judge Oliver J. 

softly, almost inaudibly, "Hewhether the jury should hear some Carter would rule on the question, assaulted me sexually."

of the most crucial evidence against which could determine in large Bailey asked how long after her
her · tape recordings from the measure the path taken by the trial. underground and the testimony of In one of the strangest confes­kidnaping this occurred, and she a witness who heard her confess to sions ever given on a witness 
said, "About one month." "Was he the only one?" Bailey

the bank robbery. stand, Miss Hearst admitted that asked.
That witness -Los Angeles she had robbed the Hibernia Bank 
"No," came the reply.. Wolfe's
Bailey asked her where 
sexual assault took place. 
"In the closet," she said, referr­ing to the cell-like closet where she said she was kept in the days after 

Town Meeting to bring 

ND community closer 
her kidnap. by John DeCoursey body president; Tom Fitzgerald, After eliciting the testimony that Staff Reporter student body vice president and Wolfe was only one of a number of Diane Merten. attackers, Bailey picked up some 
Fr: Theodore M. Hesburgh, "The purpose of the meeting," legal papers and changed the prestdent of Notre Dame, is one of Byrne said, "is to give people in S\lbject. Miss Hearst appeared tonine panelists scheduled to partici­our community a chance to talk be fighting back tears, and her pate in a Town Meeting for the about our problems. Last year Pat mother, Catherine Hearst, alsoUniversity community. 
McLaughlin,(last year's . student appeared to brush away a tear. 
The meeting will be held in the body president) held a gripe ses­Wolfe died with other SLA LaFortune ballroom, Thursday sion, and it served the double members in a fiery Los Angelesnight at 7, and is open to all purpose of kicking off the Student shootout one month after the bank members of the community. 
Government election. However, robbery for which Miss Hearst is The meeting will bring together the meeting was not very construc­standing trial. It was in a tapedthe three elements of the N.D. 
tive as the candidates did most of communique after the shootout community: students, faculty and the talking and there was little that Miss Hearst professed her love administration. Each group will feedback from students. for Wolfe, known in the SLA as 
have five to ten minutes to make 
"This-year, however," he cont­"Cujo."
general statements about what inued, "there will be more empha­Miss Hearst was followed on the they feel the community is, and sis on partic.ipation by the audi­witness stand by Dr. Margaretought to be. Afterwards, members ence, which hopefully will be com­Thaler Singer, a clinical psycholo­of the audience can question the posed of all segments of the gist who examined the heiress in philosophies and statements of the 
community. jail. Dr. Singer, a specialist in various panelists and can state "The name for the meeting," speech patterns, said she could tell their own interpretation of the Byrne added, "is prompted by the by listening to Miss Heart's SLA community. 
Bicentennial theme of this year, communiques that she had not 
Besides Hesburgh, those repre­and is taken from the town meet­written them. 
senting the administration are Bro. 
ings held in colonial New England "It does not resemble her spon­Just Paczesny, vice president for towns. The members of the taneous speech style as we saw it student affairs, and James A. 
communities gathered together, here today in court," Dr. SingerRoemer, dean of students. Repre­
and aired their views on the said. "The style of language usgesenting the faculty are Paul Con­problems ofthe day. Hopefully, we on the tape is similar to the woman 
way, chairman of the Faculty can get a good discussion going who calls herself Galina,'' AngelaSenate; Carol Moore, vice chairper­among all the groups about Notre Atwood, who died in the shootout. 
son of the Student Life Committee, 
Dame." Miss Hearst testified Mondayand Peter Walshe. Student repre­The meeting will be broadcast that Miss Atwood wrote most of the sentatives are Ed Byrne, student live by WSND. 
(continued on page 6) 
Bomb scare causes search, evacuation of Hayes-Healy 
by Bob Mader asked the business department to 
News EdJtor have "key people" check the offices for suspicious packages or any container which was ticking.
A bomb scare emptied the Raymond said two faculty mem­Hayes-Healy business building bers searched the offices and six 
yesterday afternoon after an unid­faculty members went throughentified male caller notified the 
both the old and new classroom business dean's secretary that a buildings to evacuate the building.bomb planted in the building was 
Arthur Pears, security director set to explode at 2:30. 
said he approached the threatNo bomb was found in the seriously but that South Bendbuilding after an extensive search. 
police were not called because they Bro. Leo V. Ryan, business have no jurisdiction on campus. Hecollege dean, said his secretary added that the South Bend bombreceived the threat at 1:55 and squad would have been called if aCampus Security was alerted im­bomb had been discovered.
mediately. Classes resumed in the building
The building was evacuated in before 3 p.m. 
ten minutes and approximately 300 students and faculty members James Roemer, dean of students stood calmly in the courtyard said the caller ''will be immediately outside the building while business se~arated from the community" if building personnel conducted the he Is a student and is apprehended. search. 
A false bomb threat was also Vincent Raymond, associate bus­ph_oned in to Flanner Hall early
iness dean, said the Security Offict> Frtday morning. 

St. Mary's parietal system swamped by male visitors 
by Karen Hinks ically. "The whole process only Staff Reporter took about twenty minutes and 
The St. Mary's parietal system everything was fine," commented faced a tense moment last weekend Kovatch. when LeMans Hall was swamped The men were asked to leave with male visitors. around 10:15 p.m. To add to the 
The combination of two hall confusion, the shuttle bus did not parties and several pre-sophomore arrive for over an hour. According formal parties brought over 100 tn an unidentified source, the bus men into the hall in a one-hour driver fell asleep during his run, period, sources say. forcing everyone to stay in the 
According to Nina Huber, Le· lobby. Mans hall director, no real parietal LeMans Hall houses approx­violations occurred. Only one resi­imately 500 women, most of whom dent was stationed at the desk and are sophomores. Since the exten­she was unable to see that the men sion of male visitation last year, signed in properly. As a result, IDs each resident in the dorm is were scattered on the desk and required to collect IDs at the desk floor when the male visitors in the lobby for one hour each swarmed upstairs. semester. 
As the resident began to alpha· Each guest is then required to fill betize the IDs, the men and women out an information card containing came back downstairs. Students the woman's name, her room who were in the lobby commented number and her phone number. that the entire situation was chao-The male visitor must then leave tic. his ID card at the desk where it is 
"We often wondered what would filed in alphabetical order. 
happen if all of the guys decided to An R.A. from LeMans said, come down at once, and now we "The system, as it stands, was know," said Huber. unable to handle the number of 
The only way to restore order to guys who arrived on Saturday. lt is the muddled lobby, according to impossible for one girl to handle the h11ll director, was to call the situation such as this." Campus Security. Several students expressed their 
Anthony Kovatch, director of St. fear that the logjam of men in Mary's security, stated that it was LeMans Saturday will have a necessary to ask the men to step negative effect on future parietal 
outside and call them in alphabet-policy discussions. 

Tuesday, February 10, 1976
the observer 

~--News Briefs--~ 
I=========International 
Another earthquake 
WASHINGTON--A strong eartjlquake occurred off the west coast of Mexico, about 180 miles from Guadalajara, yesterday afternoon, the 
U.S. Geological Survey said. . 
The magnitude was computed at 6.0 on the Rtchter. scale. There were no immediate reports of damage, the agency satd. 
~================Nation& 


Stop signal worked 
WAUSEON Ohio--A investigator for the National Transportation Safety Board says nothing has been found to i~dicate ~ stop si~nal was inoperative when two Penn Central fretght trams colhded head-on near here last Thursday. 
Four crewmen were killed and two others injured when the two trains slammed into each other, exploded and burned. 
Sirica's condition improves 
WASHINGTON--U.S. District Court Judge John J. Sirica, recovering from a heart attack, was able Monday to sit up and read a newspaper, his doctors reported. 
The Watergate judge, stricken last Thursday, probably will remain in the coronary care unit of George Washington University Hospital for another week. 


Seven years maximun 
WASHINGTON--Senate intelligence committee chairman Frank Church on Monday proposed that directors of the Central Intelligence Agency and FBI be limited to a maximum of seven year in office. 
The longest tour of any CIA director was eight years by Allen Dulles from 1953 to 1961, Church said. J. Edgar Hoover headed the FBI for 48 years, from 1924 until his death in 1972. 
.,.___On Campus Toda~,__. 
12:15 p.m. --lecture, "the techniques of plagiarism," by prof. carvel collins, rm 220 o'shaug. 
4:30p.m. --lecture, "behavioral and neurophysiological stud­ies of a circadean activity rhythm in the slug limax maximus," by dr. christine beidwanger, rm 278 galvin center 
6:30p.m. --computer course, "esp--the econometric hardware package," rm 115 math bldg. 
--meeting, platform committee, rm 127 nieuwland.
7 p.m. 

7 p.m. --meeting, photo club, 121 o'shaug. 
7, 9:15 & --film, "the last picture show," eng. aud., $1. 
11:30 p.m. 

7:30p.m. --prayer meeting, charismatic prayer meeting, Iafortune rathskellar. 
8 p.m. --black cultural arts festival, panel discussion: "blacks in business," with vansetta childs, philip dabney, freddie howard, lib. lounge. 
8:30p.m. --meeting, smc-nd women's caucus, rm 127 nieuw­land. 



Medicare, Social S~curity in'crease would finance medical insurance 
WASHINGTON AP-President Ford sent Congress his proposals for catastrophic medical insurance for older Americans, coupled with increased Social Security taxes and Medicare contributions. 
Ford said the $4.4 billion in­crease he is asking in Social Security payroll tax increases would not cost any worker more than $1 a week and would "insure the financial integrity" of the system. 
To help pay the estimated $1.1 billion to $1.4 billion cost of insuring the elderly against cata­strophic illness, Ford asked that Medicare patients make larger contributions adn that increases in Medicare payment rates to doctors and hospitals be limited. 
Ford asked Congress to act 
pr.omptly on his proposals, which 
he outlined in his Jan. 19 State of 
the Union message. 
Older Americans have "earned 
the right to live securely, comfor­
tably and independently," the 
President said. 
For 32 million Americans on 
Social Security, Ford said his 
program and his 1977 fiscal budget 
would include full cost-of-living 
increases in monthly benefits to 
offset ''the hardships of inflation'' 
Pre -registration deposit deadline 

set this week 
All unQergraduate students presently enrolled who plan on returning to the University for the fall semester of 1976, must advance register at the Office of Students' Accounts, Room 102, Administra­tion Building, during the week of February 9 to 13, from 9:00 to 11:30 
a.m. and 1:30 to 4:00p.m. Students at this time are required to make a $50.00 deposit. Any student who advance registers after this period will be charged a $10.00 late fee. 

Night Editor: Bob Brink Ass't Night Editor: Maureen Flynn • layout: Bill Rivard, Jeff Norkus Copy Reader: Ken Bradford Day Editor: Don Reimer Editorials: Jim Stevens Features: Gregg Bangs Sports: Fred Herbst, Bill Brink Ad layout: Joe Graif Typists: Tess Clemens, Mel Celeste Picture Screener: Mike Kron
lNight Controller: Dave Rust ) 


• NAVAJO &Zlltl INDIAN JEWELRY 
•CUSTOM SILVERWORK 
• SILlER BUDS HESHI • OPALS 
• FIRE AGATES ..Make Yoor Own Too" 

THE HOUSE OF TURQUOISE
31 4 South Main Mi~howoko 259-07 51 
Open 1 0 a.m. to 6 p.m. Closed Sunday 
and they would start going out in checks in July, 1976. 
Administration officials said tyhe actual legislation probably would not be completed in time to get to Congress until March. 
At the Capital, House Speaker Carl Albert was asked about the chances for enactment of Ford's 
proposal's and replied:  "I don't  
look  for  much  change  by  this  
Congress.  "  

Ford's announcement of his pro­posal's came just in advance of the nation's first two primaries in New Hampshire and Florida, both states with a high population of retired people. 
Here are the President's major proposals: 
-An increase in Social Security payroll taxes of three-tenths fo 1 per cent each for employees adn employers. The current Social Security tax of 5.85 per cent on covered wages would go to 6.15 per cent in 1977 on a maximum wage base of $16,500. 
The cost to a worker would range from $15 a year for those earning $5,000 to a maximum fo $49.50. The total taxes paid in 1977 would range from $307 to $1,014 for those taxpayers. Under present law the maximum is $895.05 for 1976 and $965.25 in 1977. 
-For protection against catastro­phic health costs for Medicaid beneficiaries Ford proposed cover­age for unlimited days of hospital and skilled nursing facility care. But the majority of beneficiaries would be required to pay up to $500 per year for hospital and nursing services and $250 a year for doctor and medical services. 
And to help with the increased catastrophic medical costs, Ford asked Congress to limit increases in Medicare payment rates in 1977 


Training session for tax workers 
Persons interested in working on the Tax Assistance Program this semester and who haven't attended a training session, may do so at 
3:30 p.m. in Room 101 of the Law Building Wednesday. 
The Observer is published Monday 
and 1978 to 7 per cent a day for hospitals and 4 per cent for physician services. 
The cutback is aimed also to slow down the inflation fo health costs 
by pressing doctors  to keep bills  
down  and  hospitals  to  be  more  
efficient.  

-Medicare patients themselves would share the burden of the new insurance by paying 10 per cent fo hospital and nursing home charges after th first day adn by increasing the existing amount of deductible medical services costs from $60 to $77 annually. 
But no Medicare member would be required to pay more than $500 a year for hospital and nursing costs or $250 a year for physician services. 
Under existing benefits, the patient pays the average first day hospital costs adn nothing for 60 days; after 60 days he pays a certain proportion fo each day. 
Concert planned 

to celebrate Bicentennial year 
An All-American concert, one of a series planned by the Notre Dame Music Department to celeb­rate the Bicentennial Year, will be at 8:15 p.m. Wednesday in the Sacred Heart Church. 
Entitled "Woodwind America," the concert will feature Eiko Pap­ach, flute; Anthony Spano, clari­net; Melissa Bohl, oboe; John Stienspring, bassoon, and David Basch, horn. The area musicians will present a program of music of Homer Keller, Vincent Persichetti, Samuel Barber, Walter Piston and Irving Fine. 
There is no charge for the concert. 
THE 
RESUME PLACE 
2 5 8 1/2 X 1 1 RAC BOND Only $2.55 

insty-prints 

_________~--~~~~~-~--~--------





LOVEBONDLEm 
and a red heart to your special Valentine today. She'll get the message. Visit our shop and let 
'  us show you all our  
beautiful Valentine  
flowers to send to  
soms with a  all the women  
kissing angel  in your life.  

REACH ourAriD_TOUCH HER1HE FTD FLDRIST WAY Available At: $12.50 "" ~ $15.00 fi,Jf 
flORAL P\ACI 
$20.00 4f1 W!ST 7ttt S'mEET $2.00 Sends It MISHAWAKA. INDIANA ~w An here In the U.S.A. .A1one259-6336 


By "gag rules" 
McCrohon: Free press threatened 
-· -------------~--~--~ 

by Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief 

Maxwell McCrohon, managing editor of the Chicago Tribune, yesterday warned that American freedom of the press is being threatened by "gag rules" on press coverage of criminal trials and pending revisions of the Fede· ral criminal code. 
McCrohon said that court-impo­sed gags on pre-trial publicity may be extended to other areas of press coverage, while the revisions of the criminal code in Senate Bill 1 (S-1) may hinder information-gathering by the press. 
"The question of press freedom is almost as controversial today as it was during the Revolution and immediately before," McCrohon told the audience of 100 in the Library Auditorium in the first lecture of the 1976 Cardinal O'Hara Memorial Lecture Series. 
Unconstitutional gags 

McCrohon cited the ease of a judge in Baton Rouge who held two reporters in contempt of court for violating a gag rule. Although a higher court declared the gag rule unconstitutional, the contempt ci­tations were upheld. "Even though a gag order may be unconstitutional, newspapers must obey it." McCrohon said. 
A judge imposes a gag rule to limit the pre-trial publicity that might prejudice a jury against a defendant. McCrohon argued that little is actually known about the effect of press· coverage on preju­dice against a defendant in a 
Polish woman to sail solo in race around the world 
GDANSK, Poland (AP) -A 45-year-old Polish woman ship­builder has set out to beat two rivals and become the first woman to sail solo around the world. Her big fears are illness and whales. 
Krystyna Chojnowska-Liskie­wiez. mother of two, left this Polish Baltic city last week aboard a freighter carrying her 31-foot sail­boat "Mazurek" to Las Palmas where she'll start the two-year, 30,000-mile voyage. 
Her route leads through the Panama Canal, past Tahiti and Australia, across the Indian Ocean and around the Cape of Good Hope back to Las Palmas. She plans to buy some supplies along the way and get others from Polish freights in different ports of call. 
Her boat was built by her husband, a master yacht maker. It is made of plastic with a 39-foot mast and Dacron sails, and has a small auxiliary engine, Western made navigation instruments and a two-way radio. 
"I have two important rivals • 
Speakers' series to feature 
Notre Dame faculty women 
by Christie A. Herlihy ministry, but also touch on the Senior Staff Reporter controversial issue of ordaining women into the priesthood. To explore the diverse talents of 
Carole Moore, assistant profes­Notre Dame's faculty women, the sor of history, will sketch "Ameri­Advisory Council of Women Stu· can Women in History," Tuesday, dents is sponsoring a speakers' Feb. 24. Thursday, Dolores Freseseries which is scheduled the last and Sonia Gernes, assistant profes­week of February. 
sors of English, will combine theirThe topics of the five evening writing talents with the music ofprograms range from business and Sue Seid, assistant professor oflaw to an entertaining mixture of music, and the graphic design ofart, music and fiction. Among Moira Geoffrion, art instructor.
those invited to speak is Sr. Ann Ida Gannon,1975 Laetare Medalist. On Sunday, Feb. 29, the audi­
The series will begin Sunday. ence will receive "A Look at Feb. 22, with a discussion of Business and Law" by Kathleen E. "Women in Ministry" by Dr. Cekanski, law lecturer, and Sophi Elizabeth Fiorenza. Dr. Josephine Korczyk, finance instructor. Ford and Prof. William Storey of 
Sr. Gannon, past president of the theology department as well as Mundelein College and presently
Msgr. John Egan, chairman of the visiting the Notre Dame campus,
Catholic Committee on Urban Min· will conclude the series March 1,
is try. The panel will examine not 
with an examination of "The Value only women's expanded role in 
of Women's Values". 
Waltraud Meyer of Austria, whose boat is moored in a Spanish harbor, all ready to sail, and Noriko Kobayashi of Japan," Mrs. Choj­nowska-Liskiewicz said before leav­ing Gdansk. 
"But I heard Waltraud was ill and couldn't leave ahead of me. Noriko has just now finished her trans-Pacific crossing and she too won't be able to leave soon. 
"So, perhaps my dream will come true and I'll be the first." 
Mrs. Chojnowska-Liskiewicz holds a diploma in shipbuilding from the Gdansk Polytechnic School. She began sailing as an undergraduate and 10 years ago won a skipper's license. 
"If I didn't believe in myself I would never even think of sailing around the world. I have a record of 12,000 miles sailed as skipper and enough experience to get me through," she said. 
"I only fear a sudden sickness or food poisoning, or some strange accident like being hit by a whale," she said. 
criminal case. 
Even if pre-trial press coverage were prejudicial, McCrohon noted, a judge has at least ten alternatives to imposing gag rules on the press. "Judges have many excellent safe­guards against prejudicial report­ing before choosing between the First and Sixth Amendments,'' . he said. 
The alternative to gag rules include change of venue, perempt­ory challenges of jury members, jury sequestering and re-trial. 
Dangers of S-1 

McCrohon said he was "horri­fied" at the acceptance of Senate Bill 1 by American legal organiza­tions. He claimed the bill seriously threatens individual liberties and hurts the entire criminal justice procedure. 
''The First Amendment which is almost demolished by this bill is the least of our worries," McCro­hon said. 
One section of S-1 provides a IS-year sentence for persons con­victed of passing government clas­sified information to the press, and a seven-year sentence for members of the press who do not report such to government officials. 
"Ifyou think that won't help stop people in all areas of government from giving information, I don't know what will," McCrohon said. 
Another section of the bill would allow public servants a legal de­fense from criminal prosecution if they felt their conduct were auth­orized by law. Calling this provi­sion a "Nuremberg defense," Mc­Crohon noted that this law would 

have aided certain members of the 
Nixon Administration in Water­
gate-related charges. 
According to McCrohon, other 
unsavory features of S-1 include a 
less specific definition of inciting 
to riot and mandatory sentences for 
certain crimes. 
"If I sound like a revolutionary 
about S-1. I'm proud of it," he 
said. 
Handling Hearst case 
McC:rohon cited the recent Chi­cago Tribune handling of an exclu­sive story on the Patty Hearst case as an example of "a new sense of responsibility on the part of news­papers that is long overdue." 
The Tribune obtained a manu­script in the handwriting of Hearst and SLA abductors William and Emily Harris that the prosection intended to use. The Tribune decided to hold the story about the manuscript, which details Hearst's version of her captivity, until after the jury had been selected and sequestered. 
The exclusive story appeared in the Feb. 6 edition of the Chicago Tribune, almost two weeks after Maxwell McCrohon, managing editor of the Chicago Tribune,the manuscript was obtained. 
spoke last night about the freedom of the press with respect toMcCrohon defended press cov­court trials. (Photo by Mike Kron)erage of the Hearst trial on the grounds that it is not sensational coverage, but coverage of a "sub­ject of real interest.'' 
"I think there are limits to the 
Editor-in-Chief Patty Hearst story," he said. "But it's got so many elements of a good 



The Observer is accepting
story that it's hard to resist." 
applications for the post
First visit to ND 
McCrohon noted at the outset of his lecture that it was his first visit 

of Editor-in-Chief. 
to Notre Dame. To familiarize himself with the campus, he said 
The Observer Editorial Board and Night 
he reverted to a practice h• · followed in his days as a newspaper 
Editors will elect the next editor-in-chief 
reporter which began with the 
on Tuesday Feb. 17
Sydney, Australia Morning Herald: McCrohon read the personal 
Interested students may submit resumes
classified advertisements in the Observer. 
to Terry Keeney at The Observer office,
From reading the personals, McCrohon concluded that Notre 
top floor LaFortune Student Center 
Dame was a sports place. "I came across some anguished ads for 
Deadline Friday Feb. 13 at 5 p.m.
something called 'tix'. I read it as 'fix'," McCrohon said. 
tl Mid Semester Holiday Tour fJ 



tJ ~i~~~~~:~~~~~ O~~A::~:fl.~:~.:~~:ATIONS tJ 
~ Freeport..............$~!! ~ 
w YOUR TRIP I!lCLUDES: MARCH 13, 1976 W
doub,.ocouponcv 




tJ • tl
ROUND TRIP JET BETWEEN CHICAGO AND FREEPORT, BAI!l\MAS 
• 
Meals an~ beveraqes served aloft -both ways. 

• 
Transfers from airport to hotel via motorcoach. 

• 
Welcome Rum Punch upon arrival.

• 
tJ


Per-reqistration of rooms -double occupancy basis. 
• 
Services of a local host escort during your stav. 

• 
All services fees (tips to maids,porters,bellmen).


tJ 
~ San Juan • • • • • • • • • • • • ~o:••~ ~
.......nco", ..,,,,,,v
w FEATURES INCLUDED IN YOUR TOUR: MARCH 14, 1976 .. . -w 
tJ 
* ROUND TRIP JET CHARTER TRANSPORTATION TO SAN JUAN, 
tl 
• 
Seven (7) nights accommodations at the exciting FLAMBOYAN HOTEL & CASINO. 

• 
Complimentary show in the ROYAL ROO~t at the Flall'boyan Hotel. 


tJ 
• A dinner cxchanqe coupon which upon presentation to the "FISH & MUSIC BY THF SEll" A restaurant in Candado Beach will entitle the bearer to a full 
tl
dinner for $5.00 (qratuity not included). 
• 
Complimentary drink at "l'ISI! & MIJSIC by the SEll". 

• 
.All oratuities and tips for maids,porters,doormen,ect.

• 
tJ


Jill transfers and baqqaqe handling to and from your hotel. 
• Experienced tour escort and hospitality desk at the hotel to help you plan your sidetrips and enjoy the best of the city itself.
tJ
~ *~lJ.S. oeoom~ax the hotel. $ ~
departuredtaxtlno Hoo aot 
519 tJ
w an' It w
..... POipenon 
.& \iii; MARCH 13, 1976 
doubl• occupencv 
PRICE IOCLUDES: 
* ROUND 1'RIP 1\IR TRANSPORTATION CHICAGO/RIO via WORLD AIRWAYS DC-8 
• 
Seven nights accommcxlation at the CJISTRO 1\LVES based on twin room. 

• 
Brazilian Breakfast Daily. 

• 
Round trip transfer and baogaqe handling airport/hotel.






fJ tJ 
• Gratuities to waiters and bellmen,airline taxes. 
* Fully Escorted, Hospitality Desk at hotel. SINGLE SUPPLEMI:NT-$70.00 
For more infonnation call or write:

tJ tJ 
DESTINATIONS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 


opinion!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! A Lot of Pretty Faces 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiistephery judge
r.

The Observer is published by the students of tile University 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

of Notre Dilme and St. M<~ry's College. It does not necessuily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as ucur<~tely and objectively u possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­mentaries 01re the views of individual editors. Opinions, cartoons and regulu columns express the views of their authors. Column space is av<~ilable to all members of the  Teny Keeney AI Rutherford Jim Eider Pat Hanifin Bob Mader Maureen Rynn  Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor Exeartive Editor Editorial Editor News Editor Ccin11us Editor  
community, ilnd leHers •re encour<~ged  to promote the free  Mary Janca  St. Mary's Editor  
expression of varying opinions on Cilmpus.  Ken Bradford  Copy Editor  
Val Zurblis  Wire Editor  
Editorials: 283-1715  News: 213-8661  Business: 283-7471  Tom O'Neil  Features Editor  
Business Manager  Tom Modglin  Bill Brink  Sports Editor  
Advertising Manager  Tom Whelan  Dan Sanchez  Senior Night Editor  

Tuesday, February 10, 1976 


seriously folks 
All I Want is Respect 
art buchwald 

WASHINGTON-U.N. Ambassa-me." to say, just come down to Washing-dot Pat Moynihan's resignation "Pat, yesterday at my press ton and tell us. We'll pay for the last Monday surprised everybody. conference I spent 15 minutes shuttle.'' No one even suspected he was telling everyone what a fine job you "I don't like to do things that unhappy. This is how it came were doing. Would I have done way. I think when you have about: that if 1 didn't respect you?" something on your chest you 
"Mr. Secretary, it's Ambassador "l>o you think the President should send a cable. No one will Moynihan on the phone." respects me?" appreciate me if I don't put it in "Oh no, not again. All right, put "Yes, Pat. He told me at writing." 
him through." breakfast the other morning how "Good grief, Pat. How many "Henry, it's Pat.". much he respects you." ways do I have to say it? Everyone "Hello, Pat, what's up?" "Well, why doesn't he say so?" appreciates you. Did you get my "Do you love me?" "Ron Nessen said so at Tuesdays flowers after your last Security 
"Of course I love you, Pat." press briefing." Council veto?" 
"Then why don't you say it? "That's not the same as the "Yes, I did. Thank you, Henry, Why do I always have to ask if you President saying it. they were very beautiful. But the love me?" "Pat, will you stop crying. President didn't send me any 
"I told you yesterday I loved you. Everyone in Washington respects flowers." Isn't that enough?" you and loves you." "Someone must have slipped up "That was yesterday. Today is a -"Well, I have information that at the White House. I'll check into new day·" there are certain people in State it right away." "Pat, I'm terribly busy. What and at the White House who don't "All right, I won't send a cable can I do for you?" like me and I'm going to send you a today. But I can't promise what I'll 
"Henry, I want to ask you a cable telling you that unless they do tomorrow. Henry, say it once question. I know you love me, but get off my back I'm going to quit. I more.'' do you respect me?" want you to send it out to every "Say what?" 
"You know, Henry, respect is embassy in the world." "Say you can't live without me." different from love. You can love "Pat, please don't send me a "I'm not ready to go that far." somebody and not respect jhem. I cable. It will wind up in the New "That does it," Moynihan says. can't do this job if you don't respect York Times. If you have anything "I resign." 
singa1ong ju n k!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 


Winter is for Children 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii--.-jo e g ; II 
Snow-covered windows on colo marshmellows. S!?uld revive them? she did.... winter mornings can be a welcome Or maybe it s because they Later on that week, I once again sight to a sleepy-eyed student remember, because the cold felt so was a welcome guest to Erin's struggling through his early morn­good, because the hot chocolate world, this time on a sleigh
ing classes. The soft, white snow warmed their souls, because of the expedition. On her sled she sat like 
in the outside world gently touches crunching sound a small boot can a queen, content on her wooden the warmth of the inside anct brings make in crispy snow. Maybe it's throne, and I a servant, humbly
these windows a crystalline frost, because of these that children pulling her majesty along. Wethe kind that little people with little 
rejoice in their world each day. traveled through icy fields and . fingers draw faces in, and the kind After all, children must be loyal to down bumpy roads, where thethat slightly bigger people write their childhood .... sleigh runners scraped againstnames in, until irate mommies And so, much like the snow that uncovered asphalt, but still Igrow tired of wiping the finger­clutters on country footpaths, these pulled, perhaps vicariously delight­print designs of young artists. 
ice-covered windows bring warm ing in a little girl's love of wintryWinter is for children. The 
memories that clutter the mind, life.
biting wind that nips at cold, little memories that tell of a lone wish: And when the servant tired,faces is exhilarating to the child, that I could still be loyal to my Erin's cries of "Faster, Joey,whose frozen smile appears little childhood. faster!" were like medicine toaffected. The icy streets are I have a niece back home, a those sore arms, a teaspoon ofprivate skating rinks, perfect for four-year old that heaven has youthful vigor to an aging adoles­Olympic-like twists and turns, and blessed with the smile of an angel, cent. And I ran, faster and faster, not-so-perfect for not-so Olympic­the ringing laugh of a Christmas running past days, months, andlike slips and falls. Little people bell, and a loving uncle to appreci­years, hoping to catch the time that three-feet high walk through snow­ate them both. Her name is Erin; has gone, the time that has flownfalls half their size, blazing trails she calls me Joey. We're friends. by so quickly .... 

much like legendary Davy Crock­During the holidays, I took her Erin shared her childhood withetts, with head down, determina­ice skating and sledding. Rather, I me, and I guess that it's somethingtion high, and short, somewhat should say, she took me. A I'll never be able to repay. Butunsturdy legs shuffling very slowly four-year old, you know, doesn't maybe the next time I'm walkingalong, but nevertheless, still shuf­like to hold hands with one of the alone on campus sidewalks, thefling. 

"big kids." Before we went, I said wind and cold won't seem half asWinter is for children. Their 
to her "Y'know, Erin, I fall down a bad,
loyalty to this white world of Yes, winter is for children, but

lot when I skate." She replied
freshness is unyielding. Their as one friend remarked after a long

·'Well, I don't. I'm a good skater."
vociferous eagerness to attack each day of ice skating "I felt like a kid
But after lifting her up ft:om
morning in warm clothing and with again."

the ice for what seems like the 
warmer hearts brings an inner Yes, winter is for children, and
thousandth time, I was ready to
smile to less eager adults. even though sniffles may drip and
contest her claim, and only her
Don't these children remember colds may last, it's not so bad when 
appreciatice smile stopped me.
yesterday, when. their little toes felt from a child's face, or seen
But soon, a nagging back ache 
were stl'col4-tand their clothes Wete from a child's eyes. It's much 
so wet? uon't they remember prompted me to ask "Erin, can I easier to survive a long winter ifcoming in frozen as icicles, and please hold your hand?" She you experience it and cherish it as ahow only a cup of hot chocolate, answered, almost matter-of-factly child does. 
lightly sprinkled . \\''ith half-melted "Okay, I'll get you started." And Just ask Erin. 
The Democratic Party is about ·to climax its great egalitarian experiment in this vital election year; they are going to try nomination by lottery. That's right folks, step right up, spin the bottle and run for President. No experience necessary. By and large it probably won't matter who the Democrats nominate. The only interesting Democrat in the race is dull, old "Scoop" Jackson. Scoop has taken some pretty tough stands and he has spoken out on some politically taboo issues like detente and busing. His problem is that only insomniacs can hear him speak from beginning to end. 
The other candidates seeking the Democratic nod all look alike. Each one is carefully grooming himself for the role of the true heir to Camelot. The whole business would be depressing if it were not so utterly comical. 
The leading joke by far is "Spread the Bread Fred" Harris. Not since Huey Long has America been blessed with such a loveable, hairbrcHned demigod. Once one of the country's leading hawks and a staunch conservative on economic issues, Harris has since seen the light of day. Amen Brothers. Never let it be said that Fred would be callous enough to. let scruple stand in the way of high office. Fred Harris is the left's answer to George Wallace and he is almost as bright. Lately, he has been promising two chickens in every pot, free pot and an end to all graduated loopholes. This Robin Hood approach to our fiscal crisis may have its appeal but Harris appears to have forgotten that the majority of small homeowners rely on the deduction of mortgage interest, which is a graduated loophole. I guess with all that pie in the sky, the little people won't mind paying higher taxes. 
Indiana's own son, the down-home, good ole boy, Birch Bayh is sure to charm the voters with his curly hair and baby blues. Kicking off his campaign here and speaking in a midwest twang not often heard by his colleagues in Washington, Bayh firmly promised not to invest in the economy of death (whatever that is). Instead he is going to work to make life better for everyone. Gripping stuff, right? That's what I call getting down to the essentials. 
Challenging Bayh's lead in the Mickey Mouse race is Mo Udall. Mo Udall advocates a planned economy. That's not surprising since he is enjoying a one hundred thousand dollar campaign dole from the taxpayers and they can plan on more of the same if Mo is elected. Mo Udall says we need a man of "courage and consistency" for our next president. Judging by his remarks at the Lexington Hotel in New York where he confusingly compared New York City to Saigon, I'd say he has logically excluded himself. 
Terry Sanford, who received the second largest share of matching funds ($214,050), may break way out in the front ... if he gets out of debt. Right now he is one hundred grand in the hole. Fiscal responsibility will be the theme of his campaign. 
Sargent Shriver, a loyal son of Camelot by marriage, may have a chance in Massachusetts if the Kennedy machine can pull the strings. In many respects, Shriver is an appealing candidate except for the fact that he has never held important elected office. Start at the top is Shriver's motto. 
There are more Democrats contending than I can find the space to poke fun at. However, this column would not be complete without honorable mention to that battered warhorse, Hubert Humphrey. Humphrey is not running ... very hard. His strategy is to wait for the party to call him to destiny ... and wait ... and wait.. .. 
Seriously, there is something genuinely tragic in all this. By far the most painful part is that the taxpayer is financing this unsightly mess. The real burn is that for all the rhetoric of "new and imaginative" approaches that these parrots are supposedly offering they are by and large ducking the substantive issues of this election year. Frankly, they are all looking at each other to see who is going to stumble on an issue first. Do they think that a nation which has only recently driven a right wing authoritarian out of the White House is going to leap for joy to elect a left wing authoritarian? 
If this is the best the left can do than liberalism, as it has been understood since the New Deal, has finally gone bankrupt. Its modern apostles are broken records that repeat unfulfilled promises and more of the same programs that have not worked. 
It is ironic that the l?arty which offers so many, offers so little 
DOONESBURY 

JOAN/e, WHAT A~ Bi/T, JOJWIE, THeRe's 
YOU 7R.YIN6 TO OH.. NO, SOM&7H!N& YOl/ 
ASK ME-WHerll&f?. ANOY, I'M 
H4V& 70 KNOIU...I ~ I LOV5 YOfJ? IF NOTT!?YING 
(j(J&SS I Sfi()(/LJ? : YOIJ AR&, THl3 70 PINY(){} 
HAVe 7lJt..l) }WA 
o AN5Wiii<'S Y55.. . I .. WHit& AGO.. 
\
\ 

Tuesday, February 10, 1976 

the observer 

records 
joni's newest shows changes in her life and st~le 
Someday, in the unfantomable future, when Rock Music has run its full gamut and has died a natural death, the historians will praise the name of Joni Mitchell. They will point to her lyrics and ponder their meanings.tThey will study her distictive musical style and marvel. They will study endlessy, videotapes of her concerts and will be amazed by her ability to steal a thousand hearts at each concert. They will 
send their students to listen to selected 
recordings of her material and tests will be 
taken to see if the students of tomorrow can 
relate to the music of the past. And, one 
the albums over which the student of 
tomorrow will sweat over and desperately 
try to memorize will be "The Hissing or 
Summer Lawns" which was released way back in 1976. 
Why will Joni Mitchell become a great 
artist of our time? One reason is that Joni Mitchell is both a musician and a poetess. Her lyrics are strong and discriptive, filled with images of modern-day life and love. Her music is complex and enticing, played in a seldom-used key with a style that is both flowing yet folksy. Her performances are a study in charisma and sensualness. And her finest quality is that her music actually lives and changes with the 
,

mou1es 

the hiding place--­
changes in her life and in the world. Even though her music is constantly changing, her style doesn't and that is what makes 
her a truely great artist. 
Joni's newest album, "The Hissing or Summer Lawns" is a hint of another change in Ms. Mitchell's life. Her message this time is not one of personal heartbreak and loneliness but rather, one of social commentary and true love. Her music has changed some too, with the emphasis on a driving, jazz-like rythmn section and less on her own high harmonies 
It would seem safe to credit these changes to some events in her own personal life, namely her long-standing relationship with LA Express drummer John Guerin 
wro has affected both her music and her 
li e. 
The changes that has marked her material since her collaberation with Tom Scott's LA Express develops fully in this album and begins to wander off into other realms. Her lyrics now reflect a older and more wiser woman, one that has transcended above most of the personal and has gone on to try to verbalize some of the 

a ~~jesus movie'' that works 
I'm sure we've all seen "Jesus movies," those goody-goody stories with the great­ness of God piled on thicker than the white polish on Pat Boone's shoes. These picture s are usually so fabricated that everyone walks away cynically agnostic. The problem of these pictures are the produc­tion budget is extremely low, the acting is extremely poor and 3, the plot is extremely simple; that is, "Person is mixed up; person finds Jesus; person lives forever in God's grace." 
The Hiding Place, currently playing a limited engagement at the Town and Country II, breaks the mold of typical religious pictures. It is the story of Connie TenBoom and her family during World War II. She and her sister decide to harbor Jewish fugitives in Holland, though they themselves are not Jews. They are caught and sent to a prison camp where they live the tragedy of the political prisoner. The TenBooms are a religious family. It is this faith that helps the two sisters through the pains of the "work camp." so, then, the movie offers insight into a subject rarely dealt with: the plight of the woman in war-time Europe. 
Newcomer Jeanette Clift plays Connie TenBoom and Julie Harris effectively portrays her sister, Betsie. It is surprising that Miss Clift was chosen for such a difficult role, but she plays it beautifully as she moves from uncertainty to confidence in her life. Betsie is the vehicle of Connie's change. She (Betsie) places her life in 
tom walrath 
God's hands and helps Connie find the strength to avade her misery. Several minor roles are played well. Elain Heckart, academy award winner for her role as the mother in Butterflies are Free, is excellent as the worldly wise prisoner. One will also notice Arthur O'Connell in the role of Papa Ten Boom. (He's the guy who sells Crest toothpaste to little kids on T.V.; he's much better here.) 
The "Jesus message" in The IDdlng Place is prevalent but not overbearing. It is, rather, an important part of the story. It is that because His a true story, completely true with every sad detail. The real Connie TenBoom is still living and appears at the finish to tell the audience why she wrote the story, and why the film had to be made. 
It is a story of survival throughout unbearable tortures. It is a depressing story. It is a story of the presence of Jesus in the lives of a family who kept their faith when many more lost theirs. Because it is a true story, this film goes beyond other religious films. Through fine acting and suspenseful filming it becomes an impor­tant film of the World War II, prisoner camp game. The IDdlng Place gives us a chance to see just what went on in the lives of those who were brave enough to harbor Jews from the Nazis. It helps us see that women, too, suffered in prison 
•camps .. And it shows how faith in Jesus Christ helped two women through that suffering. I recommend this film for all. 
greatest thrills and frustrations of modern American life. In the dropping of some of her self-pity-evaluations she has also become a viable social critic. All this while 
retaining the beauty of being a hopeless romantic lost amid the glow of the barroom TV set. 
. Side one opens with "In France They Kiss On Main Street", a rollicking,frivolus song that is already getting over-played on some FM stations. It sounds very much like her gold-winning single"Free Man ~n Paris" from her previous \album. The background vocals are quite interesting and upon examination, one will find that she '."as abilly assisted by Grham Nash, David Crosby and James Taylor. The next 
song, "The Jungle Line" is the most haunting song of the whole album. The instrumentation in this song is a Moog Synthesiser and the warrior drums fo the African Burundi tribe. Thats all. Needless to say, the sound is quite different and not quite like anything else in popular or non-popular music. It is however, quite appropriate for the lyrics which are a comdemnation of the New York City jungle, symbolized by the jungle line of the 
Brooklyn Bridge. Words cannot quite describe the feeling one gets from this song because it is, as Joni noted, a "total work concieved graphically, musically, 
lyrically and accidentally-as a whole." Commercially, the song is a bust, but art rarely is commercial and the music moguls won't push anything that will not sell. One mus~ at least try to listen to this cut though, and Just for oneself. The next two songs are of the "Down in the Streets Joni" variety of the previous couple of years. If you liked some of her material from the COURT AND SPARK album, then "Edith and the Kingpin" and "Don't Interrupt the Sor­row" will send you off into a Saturday night haze. The firey "Don't Interrupt the Sorrow," the flip side to "In France, They Kiss on Main St." is Joni at her pouty, sensual best. The brass backup (minus Tom Scott) is outrageous and the bass is dominating, as it does throughout the album . Curiously, a very mellow and introspective song, "Shades of Scarlet ­c.onquering" follows, displaying a vastly different side of Joni. This is material similar to her earliest albums in which she is the eternal flowerchild, the loving virgin. 
Society usually locks up people that have as many sides as this woman but fortunately, they haven't figured out her songs yet. The song also displays some of the hidden musical talent of Ms. Mitchell in the form of some very nice but lonesome piano playing. At this mellow point in your listening experience, the side is over and you must get up and desperately flip over the album. 
The title song, "The Hissing of Summer Lawns" opens up the second side. It is excellent in that respect because the tune is uptempo and jazzy but the emotion behind the song is mellow. It is, as one Grace Hall resident put it, "morning-after music''; exhilarating yet very warm and comfortable. Note too, her incredible control of her voice as a lead musical 
. W..S. ~iChOIS 
mstrn:ment, much hke a guttar. The next 
song IS almost a scrapbook of her various 
gyles .!hroughout _the years. '.'The Boho 
ance .. first start~ tn the early simple style 
?f the . Folky Jom" but soon revvs up to a 
Jazzy b1g ban~ style of the "Sexy Joni." 
T~e next song IS actually two songs in one, 
With the Johnny Mandel song "Center­
piece" being sandwitched in the middle of 
the Mitchell-penned "Harry's House." 
Her tune is too much like "Court and 
Spark" for my tastes but the inclusion of 
the bluesy "Centerpiece" makes the song 
a hit. The most amazing thing about 
"Centerpiece" is how much Joni Mitchell 
really does sound like Billie Holliday. I 
never made the connection before but it is 
an interesting point for musiophiles to 
ponder. The next song only adds to the 
difficulty of trying to classify her music. 
"Sweet Bird" is another throwback to the early simple style. The only instrumenta­tion is a couple of guitars and her voice still has the clear, piercing style of old. The close of the album is probably the most confusing and emotion-evoking of any of her previous works. This is Joni at her most artistic and least commercial; creating music into tones and tones into audio imagery. If this description is confusing, welcome to the club, because I am confused by this song. There is a point in music when the artist goes off into a tangent that few can follow into. This does not mean that the materiaJ is bad, just difficult. This particular tangent of hers is one in which she combines her voice with a Sacred Heart-style organ, flowing freely between the two. It is not a comfortable song and few will appreciate it, but it is encouraging to see a top artist trying a radically different idea in music. 
The other stars of the album are her bassist, Max Bennett and her drummer­boyfriend-guide, John Guerin. They are the backbone of the whole album and the m_ain people behind _her newer style (along with Tom Scott). VIbraphonist (yes, they are ~oming back) Victor Feldman is good but IS overpowered in the mixing while guitarists Robben Ford and Larry Carleton are dominating but not overly impressive throughout. The inside of the album cover will go well beside your pin-up of Miss December and the outside is another one of Ms. Mitchell's little side projects. The recording quality is average Asylum Rec­ords quality, meaning that you should check out the record before you leave the store. If you own anything above a Western Auto cheapie stereo, you should make sure that t~e pr~ssing is of listenable quality or you will m1ss a lot of the material. 
This album will probably not sell as well as some of her other albums and will probably not get as kind reviews as the last two did. But the album is representative of a change in a great artist's style and as such a landmark, deserves the proper recognition. Musical giants come rarely and they should be appreciated when they are around. Hopefully, we will appreciate Joni Mitchell's genius as much as those kids will in the future. 


recordsk~
1ng's thoroughbred is good ---but could be better 
Any album Carole King has made since 
TAPESTRY has been compared to that platinum !Jius best seller. TAPESTRY was not only King's best selling album, but probably her best work period. That disc epitomizes King at her best , crisp lead vocals with perfect harmonies and instru­mentation that complimented King's vo­cals nicely while never becoming imposing. 
She later decided to experiment with different music styles--including a Latin i~~ue~ce and increased instrumental par­ticipatiOn. These efforts did not fare well, expecially commercially, when compared to TAPESTRY. 
In light of this, it seems as if Carole King has returned to same style that character­ized TAPESTRY. As a matter of fact, many of the songs off her new album THOROUGHBRED sound like a few off of TAPESTRY. The opening chords of "Only Love is Real" sounds like a dead ringer for "It's Too Late." 
This is not to slight the album. THOROUGHBRED offers very listenable music and the album grows on you. However, none of the songs tends to distinguish itself with the exception of "Ambrosia." Not surprisingly, this is one of the few songs on the album that does not deal with the usual King themes of amorous confessions or letters of love put to music. Instead, she and co-author David Palmer write about the drink of the gods that offers a form of escape; an escape greatly needed. 
OH AMBROSIA POUR IT SWEET AND 
SLOW I NEED TO BE REPLENISHED I NEED TO OVERFLOW 
LET MY SENSES KNOW YOUR POWER LET YOUR HOLY MIX DISTILL OH AMBROSIA LET MY SPIRIT DRINK ITS FILL 
More typical of the rest of the writing on the album is "I'd Like to Know You Better." The lyrics are a perfect example of the previously mentioned confessions of love. 
I'D LIKE TO KNOW YOU BETTER BEING WITH YOU FEELS SO GOOD TO 
ME  
IN  A  WORLD  OF  DISTRAUG HT  HU  
MANITY  
YOU  HAVE  BROUGHT  ME  TO  MY  

SANITY 
King's vocals are as good as ever. While s~e is not able to belt out a line like Carly S1mon or make you feel like she's whispering in your ear like Joni Mitchell King always manages to convey a stron~ sense of emotion in her songs. This album is certainly no exception. 
Her back-up vocals and those of old friend James Taylor and new friends Graham Nash and David Crosby are also excellent. Russell Kunkel on drums and Leland Sklar on bass provide a light, basic downbeat to match King's simple keyboard 



gregg bangs 
work. Waddy Wachtel and Danny Kortch­mar provide the guitar work. Although most of their playing is basic back-up to the vocals, some of their filler solos are excellent. Tom Scott has a few solos on sax and, if for nothing else, is welcome for the diversification of his instrument. All in all, the instrumentation is very tight. 
THOROUGHBRED is a good album, but it leaves you with the nagging suspicion that it could be better. When King adds the vocals and instrumentation to her songs, the result is fine. The problem has nothing to do with the arrangements but with the songs themselves. King has written better--perhaps she is trying to cover them up with fine production work. This is not to say King should completely abandon her approach to writing, but a few more songs like ''Ambrosia'' wouldn't hurt matters. In fact, it would make something like "I'd Like to Know You Better" stand out. Which is what this album needs----to stand out a little 


by Mike Mullen Staff Reporter 
Student participation within the various programs which comprise the Volunteer Services has risen Mental Help Association. 

Manasa has helped set up assis­tance programs at the children's hospital just outside the campus and in the psychiatric ward at 
ate out of the University. Informa­tion concerning the details of a particular program, the type of people involved and what to expect in terms of a time commitment for 
dents. Stella said that some students may want to give of themselves full-time in order to fulfill a desire for social improve­ment. Many of these programs within their communities or areas which may be within a close proximity to the volunteer's home. 
A program is now being pulled together by the staff of the Volun­
slightly over the past semester, according to Fr. Thomas Stella, the agency's director. 
The recently-expanded agency completed another successful sem­ester in which it again realized its goal of providing various services to the South Bend community with the intention of making a definite impact for the good of the area. 
Stella said the work of the many programs connected with Volun­teer Services has helped dispel the old notions that members of a college community generally care little about the affairs and condi­tions of the communities that lie outside its grounds. 
The agency has been recently expanded through the institution of such programs as the Parish Part­nership, in which students help coordinate and plan parish activi­ties, and the newly-formed Manasa project, which is an arm of the Memorial Hospital. 

Stella said each hall on campus seems to have adopted a certain agency of the Volunteer Services. The halls work with the Services in providing the necessary manpower for the program. 
The staff of the Volunteer Ser­vices is now preparing an informal evaluation of its efforts and pro­grams which will be conducted in late March or early April, accor­ding to Stella. 
The purpose of such an evalua­tion will be to gauge the success of the organization's efforts and mea­sure student reaction to • these efforts. A successful evaluation might also point to programs that might be needed in the community, stated Stella. 
The agency is also about to distribute a booklet on volunteer­ism which wil serve as a guide to the various programs which oper-

Harrises denounce Hearst for 'saving her own skin' 
(continued from page 1) communique about the bank rob­bery. During cross-examination, U.S. Atty. James L. Browning handed Miss Hearst the sawed-off semi­automatic rifle she allegedly car­ried during the bank robbery. She held it in both hands, examined it 
closely  and  identified  it  as  her  
weapon.  
Asked how she could  tell,  she  
said,  ''from  the  stock  and  the  

bolt." 
Browning also sought to impli­cate the newspaper heiress in apparent plans for another, later bank robbery in the Sacramento area. Bailey counseled her to invoke the Sth Amendment against self-incrimination, but the judge barred further questioning on the subject and she remained silent. 
Meanwhile, William and Emily Harris, denounced by Patricia Hearst as enemies who held her captive with death threats, will not testify against her at her bank robbery trial, their attorney said late Monday. 
"There can be quarrels in the family, but that doesn't mean that Y9U run over to the other side," said Leonard W einglass in a tele­phone interview from his Los Angeles office. 

Weinglass said the Harrises, awaiting trial in Los Angeles, have been approached by the govern­ment with requests to testify at the trial. 
"But the Harrises are not in the business of sending anyone to jail," Weinglass said. 
The Harrises, who are scheduled for trial on kidnaping, robbery and assault charges, said last week they want a postponement until Miss Hearst, a codefendant, can be tried with them. 
They accused her of trying to "save her own skin" at their expense and said Miss Hearst was never forced to join the Symbionese Liberation Army. 
Weinglass said the Harrises plan to issue no further statements concerning Miss Hearst's testi­mony. 
"We're just hoping we'll all be together down here," he said. "Then everyone can say what's right.'' 
the particular group or program would be church-related and would teer Services which will attempt will be given to students. not necessarily be from the South to spell out these opportunities. 
Information also is now being Bend area. Information concerning this pro­gathered concerning extended vol­Stella said students would be gram will be released shortly by the unteer opportunities for all stu-afforded the opportunity to work agency. 


ACC, dorms big ND tour sites 
by Mike Kenahan Staff Reporter 
Boasting one of the most beaut­iful campuses in the country, Notre Dame has become quite a tourist attraction. 
Thousands of people flock onto the campus yearly. Most are here for athletic events; many are interested high school students and prospective Notre Dame freshmen and some are just plain sightseers. 
To handle the heavy task of giving these tourists an Irish welcome, the Admissions Office, under the coordination of Fr. David Tyson and Jossi Jeffries, has put together what some call the most effective tour operation in Notre Dame's history. 
Tyson attributes this year's success in tours to one thing ­organization. "This is the most organized year we've had so far," said Tyson, an admissions counsel· or and assistant rector at Dillon Hall. He pointed out that Jeffries does the actual organizing and makes the arrangements with the guides. 
The tours are given on a daily basis by a team of guides who are paid for their services. According to Tyson, this is another big difference"In the pa.st when a tour was needed, the receptionist would have to scrape someone up at the last minute. The way it is arranged today eliminates this problem," he said. 
The way it does work today is a group of guides, usually number-
MICHIANA TAX SERVICE 
gets you more $$! We do out of state returns 684-6063 or 289-5193 
* 
There will be an instructive presentation at 7:30 pm, Thursday, February 12, in the LaFortune TV Room I Audito­rium. Note that this is a date change from the original Wednes­day scheduling. 
Come and be turned-on to dynamic layout design. Refreshments will be served. 
ing no more than four or five, are are the ACC, Sacred Heart Church assigned a certain day to give a and the Memorial Library. How­tour. The tours are given at 1 p.m. ever, most of the time is spent Mondays through Fridays and at looking around at the dorms," she 
12:30 p.m. on Saturdays (except on said. home football games). The tours usually last anywhere The team right now is headed by from an hour to an hour-and-a-half. Bill Scott, Patricia O'Donnell, The average size of the tours range Charlie Bathon and Ed Lesnefsky. from two people to twenty. 
Bathon, a junior, said the tours Tyson said the peak season is are "really enjoyable." "The tours definitely during the months of that are supposed to be for the October through February. "The prospective student wind up being fall and winter months are definite­parent tours," he noted. ly our busiest. Many students 
The guides are allowed to choose are in for interviews and want to their own routes and say whatever see the campus,'' he said. they want. "I take them around Tyson said that sometimes a tour and try to mix in a little history can even persuade or sway a when I can, but the most popular student into deciding to attend subject is dorm life," Bathon said. Notre Dame. "The tour is one of 
"O'Donnell agrees wholeheart-our best forms of public relations " edly with this. ''The big attractions he noted. ' 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
f'RMANDO IS NOW LOCATED NEAR CAMPUSf fTO GIVE YOU THE CUT OR STYLE YOU WANTf 
t c:;lfunando'j, f3a7.be7. & dfai'l. cSt!Jfe cS/;oj2 f 
t vPEN SIX DAYS A WEEK , t



l PERSONALIZED SER'ViCE l 
l ARMANDO FEMIA 1437 N. IRONWOOD DR. ' ' PHONE 277-0615 SOUTH BEND. INDIANA ' 
f FOR APPT. f 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

Is there abetter reason to send an FTD LoveBundle? 
Maybe because she'll like you better for it. Send It to your special Valentine today. She'll get the message. Your FTD Florist will send your LoveBundleTM almost anywhere. Order Early! 
Usually availabl.e $J500* 
for less than *As an independent businessman, each FTD Member Florist sets his own prices. 
• Reach out and touch her,the FTD Florist way!
s:J © Florists' Transworld Delivery 
1015 LINCOLNWAY
327 LINCOLNWAY 
WEST 
~ 
CALL: CALL:
If~.....~ WEST If 
232-9997232-3354 

9JoweLL 'Jh.e '3Lo'l.i1l.t
~ 
• 1215 LIBERTY DRIVE MISHAWAKA, IND. PHONE 255-2588 



------·------·---------------~-~---------~---------. 
Tuesday, February 10, 1976 
the observer 
7 

Unbeaten teams clash in interhall 
by Ray O'Brien Luther Bradley, Jim Stock and Dan catch up ball for the rest of the to third place with their second loss 
scored 16 points in a losing cause. 

Kelleher led the way with 13, 14 game. Tom Monaghan led the way of the week. Dillon II showed a 
This raised Flanner Ill record to 

and 10 points respectively. John tor O.C.III by pouring in 24 points. balanced attack with Gerard Malo­6-0. 
Tomorrow and Thursday 
9:00 to 3:00 P.M. 
I.aFortune Student Center 
One out of every three Marine Corps officers is in aviation. And we're looking for more good men to join them. Men who will fly some of the world's most exciting aircraft, as members of the world's finest air-ground team. If you're in college now, look into our :~;...• 
PLC-Aviation program. There's no better :·:· 

;;.;;~;~;;~;~;arted. ~ 
FOR AFEW GOOD MEN. I.... 
=-=· 

:·'l.w>"--.....;:;-;,;·;·~........._..,.,.,.,.,~,.,-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-_.c:;:
••=--~i'.i!o..•-··-·~:.-..:.-..:.-..:....v..Vihv..v...,.,.:.w•.+.:::~~~'O'Q'Io 
:-: 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Desperately need Marquette tix, call Dorothy, 277·1838. 
Need ride to Penn State weekend of Feb . 
13. Call Jan 6859. 
Applicants over 21 for part-time derking, 
etc.  Apply  11:00-6:00  P.M.  Party  
Shoppes  Of  South  Bend  Office,  913  
Clover Street.  

NEED WORKERS FOR MOCK CON­VENTION. To print posters, replicas of old political buttons, for Stepan Center walls. Need \Mlrkers from now until March 1. If ~u can help, call Nancy 
1365. 
Want 1 ND or SMC art student to do cartooning, muple hours per week, $$, call Rick at 233-1115 between 4-7 P.M. 
T\Ml Marquette tix. Call 6804. 
Need 4 GA West Virginia tickets. Call Maggie. 5408. 
Want to buy used refrigerator in good mndition. Call 233-8579 after 5 P.M. 
Want tickets for Marquette game or any other Saturday game. Call Tom 1795. 
Need ride to Milwaukee area Feb. 13. Call Debbie 4-4844. 
Need 2 west Virginia tickets. Mary 1285. 
Need 2 non-student tickets for Villanova game. Chuck 1211. 
Ride needed to Attsburgh for Feb. 14th weekend. Call Nick, 8370. 
MANAGEMENT TRAINEE 
To$14,000 Ready for a new career? We are interviewing for a management training program that will allow ~u to earn $25,000 or more In 5 years IMlile representing our top team of financial specialists in Equities, Insurance, twxt­gages and Tax Shelters. Send ~ur resume to: Charles M. Newbanks 120 W. LaSalle Suite 906 South Bend, IN 46601 
Need ride to Rliladelphia this weekend. Will share driving and expenses. Call 6825 after 12. 
LDST AND FOUND 
Ulst: ID Card, ~31 226 637. Calll340. 
Found: silver necklace in L.eMals lobby. Call Camille, 4773. 
Found: money on carrpus. Call Tom 288-3819 or 277-1076. 
FOR SALE 
74 Javelin AMX. 21,000 miles, all options. Call Dav.n 272-3236. 
8 GA Marquette tickets, best offers, Greg, Jim 1578. 
Univox Electrical guitar. Nice sound and good action. Call Bob at 1487. 
Nikko Rmat, FT2 50rrm-fl.4 $275; TEAC 360-A cassette deck with ~lby $170; 234-6535. 
Must sell space on Senior trip to Bahamas. Dismunt. Jim 1703. 
FOR RENT 
Summer rental, super rates for houses or rooms. Real close to carl1JUS and furnished. Call 233-2613. 
Five and six bedroom houses for rent, for next school year. Excellent rondition, close to carrpus, c:orrpletely furnished. Call 233-2613. 
NOTICES 
TERM PAPER-THESIS-LETTER. a little 
or alot, we can help. 
A Corrplete Typing Service 207 Dixie Way north South Bend, Indiana 277-2922 
Monissey Loan $20-$150, one day wait, 1 percent interest. l..iiFortune, M-F, 11:15­12:15 
IBM Selectric II typing. Malusaipts, dissertations, experienced. 289-5193. 
Need a tune-up? You buy the parts, I will install plugs, points, rondenser and set timing tor $8. Call Bob 8610. 
Accurate, fast typing, Mrs. QJnoho, 232-0746. 
PERSONALS 
To those Beautiful, Boisterous, Bouncy, BulCDm {?) B G Broads: Once again a great weekend The Pleasure was ~urs we're sure! As Always, the COrby Gang 
Mock Stock Mar1<et, Feb 2 thru Feb 27. Old Business Bldg., 10 A.M.-3P.M., Mon thru Fti. Win 5100, 550, $25. Sponsored by N.D. Finance Club. 
Got a question about aiCDhol? Or' a problem? Call Peggy Barnum, 8809, AICDhol Counselor, University Infirmary. 


There once was a laddie nailEd Tom Who muld not find a date for the Prom He searched the whole town, But they all turned him down, 5o he ended up taking his Mom! PROM DISASTER BOXQ NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556. 
Dear Bunny Rabbit, Thinking of ~u! The Red Baron. 
LET YOUR LOVE RDWERI Roweling plants for Valentine's Day delivered to their doorstep on ca~us. South Dining Hall MWF 5-6:15; North Dining Hall TT 5-6:15. 
LORAC UVES LDRAC KNOWS! 
To the countess, Did Casey help ~u with ~ur laundry? Just Call Me Wally. 
Pat, 
See ~u at the prayer meeting in Rathskeller at 7:30 tonight. 
Deadline for Observer Valentines is 5 p.m. Wednesday. 

League leaders were determined Powell scored 16 points in a losing ·'om Kirby added 22 points, Mike this week as several "undefeat­cause as O.C.I. plummeted to a 2-4 •nks, Greg Wilks and Dan Wilks eds" clashed for the first time. record. Morrissey I bounced back ~::re all in double figures for 
The big game of the week in later in the week by crushing Keenan I. League I saw Fisher rout Morrissey Howard I by a score of 70-58. Off Campus III continued their 161-37 and claim sole possession of Kevin Hart, Scott Kelley, Jeff winning ways by knocking off first place. Dan Knott (11 points), Thinnes and Mike Vadas were all in Stanford I 71-58. Tom Monaghan Tony Crudele (II pts.) and Luther double figures for Morrissey I who again took scoring honors for Bradley (14 pts.) paced Fisher to are now 6-1. O.C.III (19 pts.) as they blew the their fifth straight victory. Russ When Off Campus III and Keen­game open in the fourth quarter. Lisch had 10 points for the losers as an I met, Keenan's dream of a This upped O.C.III record to 7-0. Morrissey I droped to 6-1 on the perfect season ended with a 69~57 Jim Scholl played brilliantly in a season. decision. O.C.lll came out gunmng losing cause, taking game honors 
Fisher I later made it six in a row while Keenan could manage only with 24 points. by defeating Off Campus I by a three free throws in the whole first Dillon II pulled a 47-44 upset score of 60-53. This time grid stars quarter and was forced to play over Keenan I to knock them down 


Wrestlers capture second place 
The Notre Dame Wrestling team Ill points, the Irish 71, with on. Pat McKillen, an NCAA quali­turned in its finest performance of Marquette University taking third fier last year at ISO, dropped a the vear last Saturday, as they place in the eight team event with weight class to 142, and captured tinished runner-up to host John 62 points. the championship, defeating his Carroll University at the National At the conclusion of the meet, John Carroll counterpart, S-2. Bob Catholic W_restling Champion­Notre Dame's first-year coach, Ray Go lie, the Irish's undefeated ships. The Irish had eight wrestlers Sepeta, was voted the National freshman heavyweight, ran his place, capturing two champion­Catholic Wrestling Coach of the record to 8-0 with a l-0 overtime ships. three runner-up slots, one Year by his coaching colleagues. decision in the heavyweight third and two fourths. John Carroll On the mats, the Irish placed championship bout. by way of nine finalists, garnered wrestlers from the 134-pound class 
Three Irish wrestlers gained the finals only to suffer disappointing defeats. Co-captains Dave Boyer 
(150) and John Dowd (167) were both decisioned in their title tilts. Sophomore Roq Dreger was van­quished by the same fashion at 177. Junior Dan Heffernan registered a pin in taking third place at 134, while Dennis Kumor (158) and Joe Pszeracki (190) placed fourth in their respective weight classes. 
The Irish return to the mats this Wednesday, February 11th, at home when they will entertain the Broncos of Western Michigan Uni­versity. The Broncos lead by Gary Martin, last year's Mid-American Champion at ISO. The meet will begin at 7:30 in the Auxiliary Gym of the ACC, and there is no admission charge. 


ney leading the charge with 10 Cavanaugh I only game was a points. The Wilks brothers Dan 90-41 Iaugher over Moreau. Bill and Greg scored 12 and 16 points Schaffner led Cavanaugh I with 25 respectively for Keenan I. Mean­points while Pat Kennedy added while, St. Ed's I capitalized on 15. This was the best offensive 
Keenan's losses by nipping Flan­output of any team over the year. 
ner II 58-57 to carry them into Off Campus VI won two gamessecond place. St. Ed's Dave this week to close in on League IV Schlitchting took game honors with leader Alumni II (7-0). The first 23 points. 
was a 46-42 decision over Zahm II. 
Flanner III, led by player-coach forfeit over Fisher
A victory II AI Bucci, and Cavanaugh III re­upped O.C. VI record to 6-t and one mained deadlocked in first place in 
game out of first place.League III. Flanner picked up two 
Cavanaugh III continued to dom­wins , the first a 59-45 triumph over inate League V. They slipped byGrace III. Ross Christensen, Mark Zahm III by a score of 56-SO. In the Hogan and Steve Doves all scored next game Cavanaugh knocked off in double figures for Flanner III. 
second place Stanford II by a score The next stop was an easy 78-35 of 57-45 to stretch their unbeaten 
rout over Keenan II. Mike Schuff, streak to seven games. PangbornRoss Christensen, Pete Johson and II and Grace Veach won two gamesSal Cosimano were all in double to keep the pressure on first placefigures with Schuff taking game Cavanaugh Ill. They both boast a 
honors with 21 points. Steve Klee 6-1 record and are one game back. 

American ice dancers ·win .. Olympic bronze medal 
JNNSBfWCK (AP) Italian ski Valley, site of these 12th Winter ace Gustavo Thoeni fought his way Olympic Games. down a washboard slope and took Another American hope~ul. the lead in the giant slalom at the Peter Mueller of Mequon. Wts_., Winter Olympics Monday, Russia's goes for a gold medal Tuesday tn Galina Kulakova was stripped of a the men's 500-meter speed skat­bronze medal because she took ing. He follows a tough act in nose drops for a cold and an Sheila Young of Detroit, who won American couple won a bronze gold, silver and bronze medals in medal in ice dancing. women's speed skating last week. 
. . . In ice dancing, Ludmilla Pakho­
Mea~whtle:. Phtltp_ Mahre, one_of mova and Alexander Gorshkov won the Alptne sknn.g_twms_from Whtte the gold medal for the Soviet Pass, W<ts~ .• JOtned tee dancers Union. Another Soviet couple was C~lleen_ 0 Co!'lnor . and J~m~s second and Miss O'Connor, 24, and Mtll?s ~n keepmg altve Amertca s Millns 27, of Colorado Springs, conttnutng strong performances. gave the United States its seventh 
Mahre furnished the biggest medal . more than most experts surprise of the day, finishing fourth predicted for Uncle Sam's athletes in the first run of the giant slalom. for the entire run of these Games. His performance put him in strong Skating in the freestyle portion, contention for a medal when the Miss O'Connor and Millns secured skiers take their second run at the their medal hopes in the sport giant slalom Tuesday on another which they had campaigned to have slope across the beautiful Inn added to the Olympic program. 
--~ 

the observer Tuesday, February 10, 1976 




Second-half rally spurs Irish win 
by Bill Brink Sports Editor 
If Notre Dame thought they were adding a pushover when they selected St. Bonaventure as their extra game this season, they found out different last night. Spurred by Greg Sander's game­high 30 points, the Bonnies battled the Irish well into the second half before finally succumbing, 95-80, in front of the sellout crowd of 11,345 that filled the Notre Dame ACC last night. 
Irish superstar Adrian Dantley, who recovered from a cold first half to score 27 points, and freshman Bernard Rencher led ND as they pulled away from a determined Bonnie squad in the last fourteen minutes of the game. Rencher's 13 points broke his career-high, which he had achieved against Davidson just two days before. The Irish turned in another great team effort as five players scored in double figures. 
"I had a lot of respect for St. 

.. Bonaventure before the game," said ND coach Digger Phelps. "They're quick, they got some some good kids, and they never give up. We had to play very, very hard to win." Indeed, the Irish did have to struggle to keep ahead of St. Bonaventure, especially in the first half. With Dantley in the process of going 3 for 11 in the field, and with Greg Sanders hitting 9 of 12, 
the Bonnies ~ ....~..;~An a ......,,,...na 
Notre Dame's constantly travel­ing yet consistently winning fenc­ing team moves to Detroit Saturday to tangle with both the University of Detroit and Chicago. The Irish swordsmen will be hoping to repeat their performances of last year against both as they defeated each handily. 
With their three victories this past weekend Notre Dame upped its season record to 13-0. They have now tied the longest winning streak in Notre Dame fencing history at 31, not paralleled since the 1967-68 seasons. If Coach Mike DeCicco's team can win its first match this Saturday, then it will be the sole owner of the win streak statistic. 
This past Saturday the Irish defeated Tri-State, 21-6, Wisconsin Parkside, 23-4 and rival Wayne State, 15-12. It was the second time this season that Tri-State and Wayne State have been beaten by Fourteen minutes into the game they had a 32-31 lead. Only Dave Batton, who was scoring from virtually everywhere, kept the Irish in command. 

Sanders, meanwhile, was deva­stating underneath, using his agil­ity and quickness to slip around the ND defenders. When Sanders wasn't hitting, fleet-footed guard Glenn Hagan was, popping from the outside to notch 10 first half points. Defensively, the Bonnies 2-3 zone collapsed all over Dantley and forced him to shoot under a lot of pressure. Batton and freshman Bruce Flowers took up the slack until A.D. picked up to score the last five points of the half and take a 44-36 lead at intermission. Dantley also took over first place in the most free throws made cate­gory when he sunk his fourth foul shot of the game with 5:20 to go in the half. 
The second half opened up with a fast pace and some torrid shooting. Flowers and Ray 'Dice' Martin hit two buckets apiece for ND and Sanders continued to be hot for St. Bonaventure. Bob Rozyzcko, the Bonnies' leading scorer for the season, began to come alive after scoring just four points in the first half. With 5:20 gone in the second half he hit his sixth point to bring the Bonnies within three, 56-53. But Dantley pulled the Irish away, hittting eight of their next ten points and Rencher came on to dazzle the crowd with a fancy offensive per-
Notre Dame. 
The sabre and foil teams compil­ed identical 22-5 records on the day while the epee team managed a 15-12 outcome. Mike Sullivan con­tinues to lead the sabre fencers as he took four bouts and lost his first of the season to last year's NCAA sabre champion, Yuri Rabinovich. Sullivan's teammate, Sam DiFiglio, also turned in an impressive per­formance as he captured five matches and lost only one, also to Rabinovich. In the foil weapon, sophomore Mike McCahey had a perfect day by winning all seven of his bouts, three versus Wisconsin­Parkside. 
Saturday's action in Detroit is slated to begin at 10 a.m. Notre Dame will travel again next week­end to Columbus, Ohio and will return home February 28 to fence against Wisconsin and Illinois. 
formance. When he hit two quick lay-ups to put ND up 78-64 Bonnie coach Jim Satalin called time out with 8:26 remaining. 
But Satalin's squad, though they never gave up, could not catch the Irish. Dantley hit five straight points, and Rencher sandwiched five more around buckets by Flow­ers and Bill Paterno, and the Irish had their largest lead of the ballgame, 92-71, with 3:06 left in the game. The reserves came on to finish the game by the final fifteen-point margin. 
"We were ready for the zone," said Phelps, "but the problem was they switched to their secondary defense, the man-to-man, and we couldn't execute well enough. Plus we missed alot of shots, which we seem to be doing with alot of consistency here lately. But we just tried to keep up our 28 foot defense and play consistenly and aggressively. We didn't do any­thing different, we just played better in the second half." 
The Irish, by virture of their 22 of 31 field shooting in the second half, upped their percentage to .555 for the game. Dantley hit 5 of 7 after intermission to finish with 8 of 19 for the night. He made 11 of 17 from the foul line. Flowers, Batton and Martin helped the percentage by hitting 7 of 8, 7 of 9 and 5 of 6 respectively. Batton finished with 15 points, second to Dantley, while Flowers had 14 and Martin 10. Bill Paterno added eight more points and Duck Williams six. Toby Knight led the Irish in rebounds with ten, followed by Flowers' nine caroms. 
For St. Bonaventure, Sanders' total of thirty points was followed by Hagan's 16 markers. Bonnie center Essie Hollis added thirteen and Rozyzcko had twelve. Reserve 

ND icers travel to Bowling Green 
by Ernie Torriero Lake Superior. 
has been a hot connection of late,
"The CCHA is a real good 
accounting for ten of Bowling
hockey league," Smith points out. 
Green's last 18 goals.
They call them the "Ice House "Under the new format one team In goal the Irish will once againGang.'' They play in a place known. from the league will be able to see Luit. Luit had given up just 24 as "Big Orange Country." For compete for an NCAA berth. 
goals in 11 games for an impressivemost of those in northern Ohio they Certainly a win against a WCHA 2.36 goals-against average. 
are the hottest things around since team like us could aid them." 
Meanwhile the Irish are comingWoody Hayes. For those poor few Coach Ron Mason's Falcons are off a split at Denver. The thirdwho haven't experienced it, the on a youth movement which such split in as many weekendsphenomenon is known as Bowling someday could lead to an NCAA gave the Irish an 11-11-2 mark inGreen Hockey. championship. Sophomore center WCHA play and a 13-12-2 recordIf you think all they grow in Ohio Mike Hartman is one of the most overall.
is Buckeyes and footballs, well just consistent scorers in the country. 
IRISH ICINGS: Bowling Green islet any hockey expert tell you about The 5-10, 174 pound Hartman has the last non-conference game onhockey in Ohio. The Falcons are netted 20 goals and 25 assists in 21 the Irish schedule. Notre Dame iswinning at a consistent clip and at games. 
2-1 outside of the WCHA. Sopho­last glance one could find t he name Sophomore defenseman John more wing Kevin Nugent will missof Bowling Green listed as seventh Mavity has scored 11 goals and 20 tonight's play after unruly miscon­in the WMPL coaches poll and assists to rate second in the Falcon duct at Denver Saturday night. Afourth in the KBIL media poll. scoring column. 
pep rally is planned for 6:30 p.m.
"Bowling Gren is definitely an Rookie linemates John Markell Friday night outside of Gate 3 atexcellent hockey team," explains (9-20-29) and Mark Wells (11-18­the ACC. The Irish face numberNotre Dame coach Lefty Smith. 29) are tied for third in team one-rated Michigan Tech in a pair"They are bidding for an NCAA scoring while freshman Bruce of weekend contests. The themeberth and they always seem to play Newton (10-15-25) is sixth on the for the rally is "ENDLESSwell against us." list. Markell (left wing), Wells MARCH.'' WSND will broadcastThe Falcons have not played (center), and Newton (right winger) tonight's game live beginning atsince last Tuesday when they lost form a potent freshman line which 7:20p.m.
at Michigan. The 7-6 setback gave 
Bowling Green a 1-1 record against 
WCHA opponents and a 16-4-1 
ND swimmers top Bonnies 
overall record. The one WCHA win 
came against a squad which had Notre Dame's varsity swimmers in swimming that prevents a team 
just come from a sweep of North capitalized on some of its strongest from sweeping an event, so Mark 
Dakota. That squad was Notre swimming performances of the Foster had to settle for a fourth 
Dame. year as they downed St. Bonaven­place. Ed Fitzsimons 
"You know we will want to play ture Monday afternoon by a score won the 100 yard freestyle for his 
well," Smith continued. "We did of 65-48. For the Irish it was their second win of the day and then 
not play well the last time we were second victory of the year and Pete Kensella and Bob Wardell 
there in January. This time we will brought them up to a 2 and 6 won the next two events for the not take anything for granted." season mark. 
Irish. Closs finished off his fine 
To say the Irish did not play well Notre Dame jumped out to an 
performance by winning the 200 on January 6 is an understatement. early lead on the strength of their yard breaststroke, but Andy Petro The Falcons and a capacity crowd relay team of Bob Reilly, Pete 
was right behind him losing by onlyof 2932 at the Bowling Green Ice Kinsella, Andy Petro and Jim 4-hundredths of a second, his best Arena were ready for the Irish. Severyn. Then in the 200 yard time of the year.
Falcon goalie Mike Luit earned freestyle, Ed Fitzsimons captured The Irish divers showed that they his first career shutout and de­one of the three firsts he either had regained their winning ways as fenseman John Mavity scored two captured himself or was involved in they went out and took first and goals in a 5-0 whitewash. Luit for the Irish. 
second places in the three meter broke a Bowling Green career win Notre Dame began to show event with Bob Ebel finishing first 
mark with 27 wins in less than two its strength as freshman Fritz and Fritz Shad) taking second. years and a half with the Falcons. Shadley took a first in the diving for Notre Dame will be in action this The Falcons are riding atop the the first time this year and fired the Saturday against Marshall Univer­Central Collegiate Hockey Associa­
Irish up. Bob Ebel was a close sity at Huntington, West Virginia. 
tion with an 8-1 mark. The league second with 249.7 points and Mark Their next home meet will be includes such teams as St. Louis, Foster followed with 249.6. Unfor­February 27 for their final home Western Michigan, Ohio State and tunately for the Irish, there is a rule meet against Bradley. 

center Tim Waterman led the tuted more than I normally do. 
Bonnies in rebounding with eight. Usually I stick with the same five or The Irish once again outrebounded six players throughout the game,their opponent, last night by a but Notre Dame's depth forced me 50-46 margin. to substitute." 
"We are not a physical team, The Irish continue their home­and because of that we have stand Wednesday night when the trouble rebounding," Wildcats of Villanova visit the 
conceded Satalin. "Also, I substi-ACC. Game time will be 8 p.m. 






