New courses for spring semester 
by Jack Pizzolato Staff Reporter 
If "terribly exciting" is not quite the way you would describe this fall's course selections, you might be interested to know what is new for the spring. Pre-registration for next semester will be held the week of Nov. 11-18, and the following is a listing of the new or newly-revived undergraduate courses which will be offered. Title, course number, professor, and a brief course description is included (when available). All courses are 3 credit hours unless otherwise noted. Students who wish more informa­tion should contact either the specific department or the Regis­trar's office at 7162. 
AMERICAN STUDIES is adding two 400-level courses: 
Book Publishing (AMST 462) will be taught by E. Christman. The family life, technologies, belief cal approaches in the study of man. ing.'iix new courses in the spring: course will deal with the theory and systems and other cultural forms Prof. L. Despres will teach the M!Vor Modem African Wrlten practice of book publishing with contribute to developing indivi­course with an emphasis given to (BLST 318), to be taught by Prof. J attention to all facets of the duals will grow up human. theoretical frameworks emerging E. Stewart, will examine the crea business: manuscript selection, Current Issues: Culture and in evolutionary, ecological, and tion of a new literature by Africar editing and product marketing. Aging (ANTH 466) will examine cultural historical, as well as cogni­writers within the past 25 years 
Readings in American Studies the various factors which affect tive and psychological anthropolo­writers who are developing tht (AMST 496) will be an independent status and function of the elderly in gy. ANTH 288 or the instructor's consequences of their black cui reading course under the direction a number of society types. Special permission is a prerequisite for this tures, but equally, the consequenct of the department chairman, Prof. emphasis will be given to those course. of a modern historical moment 
R. Weber. There will be an elements which most readily lend ART students can choose form modern cities, modern politics anc extensive syllabus of major works themselves to comparative exa­four new coruses: so on -in which men are trying to in American Studies scholarship. mination of the present and future In the 200-level series a course build new forms of life. The texts The course is intended for those role of the elderly in both develop­entitled Soft Sculpture (ART 244) studied will be from oral literature students planning on graduate ing and modering industrialized will be taught by M. Geoffrion, and and the vernacular roots of culture. studies in the field. nations. The course will be taught Fr. J. Flanigan will conduct a from poetry, sophisticated fiction 
ANTHROPOLOGY will offer by Prof. I. Press, who , in addition course in Clay-Plaster Sculpture and a modern drama using custo­three new courses next semester: to normal coursework, will require (ART 249. mary forms and modern tech­
Growing Up Human (ANTH 312) students to spend a minimum of Two Art History courses, niques. will be taught by Prof. C. O'Neil. twelve hours of intensive interview Ancient Classical Art (ART 453) Major Afro-American Writers li The course will explore the human with selected elderly residents of taught by J. Rushton, and the (BLST 326) will deal with som£ capacity for developing a wide South Bend. History of Print-Making (ART 468) aspects of the Black Aesthetic. variety of ways for coping with the Anthropological Approaches taught by Prof. S. Spiro, will also specifically trying to define tht· problems of continuing existence. (ANTH 482) will be a survey and be offered. concept considering three basic It will specifically examine how discussion of the various theoreti-BLACK STUDIES will be -offer-(continued on page 8) 


server 


an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XI, No. 38 Monday: November 1, 1976 
Presidential race still too close to call, 
according to 
by Gregg B. Bangs Political Editor 

According to the results of several final national surveys, the race for the Presidency between Republican incumbant Gerald Ford and Democratic challenger Jimmy Carter is a virtual toss-up. 
A New York Times-CBS survey published Saturday night said Car­ter was ahead, but that his margin was within the 2.5 per cent margin of error--which means that Ford could be the leader. The Times did not release figures on overall Ford and Carter Support. 
A poll conducted by Louis Harris for ABC News found Carter leading Ford by just one percentage point. 45 per cent to 44 per cent. Jn six states that are considered crucial, the candidate's own polls showed them only a percentage point or two apart, according to a R. W. Apple Jr. story that appeared in the Oct. 31 New York Times. Apple found political tacticians in both camps "agreed that the election was poised on a knife edge, and analysts across the country were unwilling to hazard predictions." 
Even such high ranking Demo­crats as Robert S. Strauss, the Democratic National Chairman, admits the President has a chance for victory. "There is now a real possibility that Ford could win,'' he said. "But it's hard to make a three-horse parlay, and that's what the President needs--all the close ones. I'd still bet on Carter, although I wouldn't bet the family farm." 
Carter still ahead In Electoral Votes 
An interim New York Times tabulation found Carter presently leading Ford in electoral votes, 253 to 188, with 97 still too close to call. A candidate needs 270 electoral votes to win. 

On The Inside 
various national surveys 
The Times also revealed it had received a document from sources "close" to the President Ford Committeee. This document gave Carter the lead in electoral votes, 230 to 196, leaving 112 votes in a category labeled as "pivotal." The document unexpectedly conceded that Carter would probably take New York and Texas, while main­taining that Ford could still carry Florida. 
"Route 80 States" Crucial 
Apple maintains states lying along Interstate Route 80 between New York and Chicago will probab­ly be a key to the outcome of Tuesday's election. 
In New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois, the race is close. Carter supporters are most confident about Ohio and Pennsylvania and Republicans are most confident about Indiana, New Jersey and Illinois, ·respectively. The race in 111inois is extremely close, according to the final Chi­cago Sun-Times poll. The poll shows Carter leading Ford by one-tenth of one percentage poing, 
49.4 per cent to 49.3 per cent. 
According to a Newsday-Gannett newspapers poll completed this past Thursday, Carter leads Ford by three percentage points in New York. The former Georgia gover­nor is also considered safely ahead in Massachusetts, Florida, an Texas, where he campaigned heav­ily this weekend. 
Ford is ahead of Cartet in his home state of Michigan, as well as in California, where a Field Poll shows the former Michigan con­gressman ahead of his Democratic foe bv six points. 
The Times maintains that since Carter is still strong in both the South and the Border states, Ford ''probably needs three or f~ur of the Route 80 states to wm, a si7eable requirement, but one htat no longer seems beyond his reach." 
Last Minute Campaigning 
Carter and Mondale are both campaigning heavily up until Mon­day night. Carter travelled to the West Coast last night to appear in a telethon with Gov. Edmund Brown and Representative Barbara Jordan of Texas. The telethon will be shown in California, Oregon, Nev­ada and Washington; states whee the race is close. 
Mondale made his eleventh ap­pearence in Ohio, over the week­end to build on what is blieved to be a small Carter lead. In a high!· unorthodox, Carter and Monda! will close out their campaig1. tonight in Detroit, Michigan; the same day Ford concludes his campaign with appearences in Detroit and Grand Rapids, his home town. 

Roemer requests students refrain from passing up females at games 
by Marian Ulicny Staff Reporter 
James A. Roemer, dean of students, has appealed to the University community as a whole to stop passing female students in the stands during football games. 
According to. Roemer, his office has been "the recipient of many complaints from women who felt it was an extremely humiliating experience." 
Roemer states he would like to see an end to ''this ridiculous practice" because of the danger of potential injury to both the women passed up and the students doing the passing. He cited the example of a student who had to be taken to St. Joseph Hospital for X-rays after a woman being passed up fell and injured him. 
In addition to facing possible injury, the women are subjected to embarrassment, Roemer noted. He stated there is an obvious differ­

; ":ostumes such as these, and weird actions, too, were all part of · he freakish spectacle that was the Beaux Arts Ball last Saturday 1 1ight. The BAll by tradition takes place yearly--more often, if desired --aboard the magical, mystical, imaginary balloon that is the Architecture Building. Confused? You wouldn't be if you 
were there. 
-


heavy-handed way on this matter," 
he stated. "What am I going to do, 
stand out there in the student 
section to make general obser­
vations? I want to watch the game, 
too," he added. 
Roemer stated he does not want 
to make the ushers responsible for 
discouraging students from 
passing women up the stands. "1 
don't like to make threats. I'm not 
comfortable with threats," he sl'id. 
"Exhortation alone is not the 
answer.'' 

According to Roemer, it is the women themselves who will prolong or eliminate the passing-up . situation. "1 would hope that the women in the community w mid let the men know how they fed about this ridiculous practice," Roemer 
stated. 
He added, "I don't think the 
women have voiced their opinions 
in a strong enough way. H they 
would, there's enough men who 
would recognize the problem and idea of it is frightening, so you fight a lot," Mara Quinn stated. "After it's done, you don't want it to happen again," she added. Sue Barry agreed that "it was really scarey. It wasn't fun at all." Another girl described being pas­sed up as "disgusting and dehu­manizing." . 
Some girls felt they were passed up because their friends initiated it as a joke. "Most often it's your friends," noted Elaine Glaid. "If you don't talk to the guys around, you're not as apt to get passed up." Barry disagreed, stating, "They were grabbing anyone in our immediate vicinity. I didn't know anyone who picked me up." 
The girls agreed that avoiding being passed interfered with their attention to the football game. "I couldn't even concentrate on the game," Quinn stated. Barry added, "We couldn't even sit in our seats for the rest of the game because we were . afraid it 

ence between one girl who wants to do something about it; who'd think, would happen again. I didn't
The Observer endorses ... see page 6 
be passed up for fun and another 'We're not doing this for the dean enjoy it at all." who is passed up against her will of students, we're doing this for Questioned as to whether publi­and attempts to escape. our friends.' " cized discouragement from the wo­
According to Roemer, he alone Female students who have been men end the practice, one student

Where to go to vote... see page 4 
cannot stop the situation. "It's not pased up expressed similar responded, "I doubt it. I don't 
. I 
the easiest thing for the dean of opinions concerning the practice. 
(condaaecl on .-ae 8)

students to come down in a "I was totally embarrassed. The 
r 
~ 
2 __.:.:th~e~o:..:b::..:s::..:e=-=--r...:....:=ve:...:r____..:c.M:..:o.::.nda----"-v..:....'_N_ov_e_m_b_er_l_,_l_97_6 


,.---News Briefs---.... 
I=========================International Police raid homes of militants 
Soweto -Protest goes on among the black youths of Soweto. Police raid homes in search of student militants and many arrests are reported. The largest schools are all but deserted. 

1=-=:-:::::-=============================National 
Gunman seized near Carter 
Dallas -A Dallas police spokesman said two persons with pistols were taken into custody just outside a Dallas hotel room where Democratic presidential nominee Jiinmy Carter addressed a breakfast meeting of county Democrats yesterday. 

Democratic House seen 
Washington-The House that voters will elect next Tuesday, by all indications. will show about the same party division as its predecessor-overwhelmingly Democratic. At least one-third of the representatives sworn in next January will have not more than two vear's pervious service. 

Only two billionaires left 
New York -With the deaths of Howard Hughes and J. Paul Gett~ , the United now was only two billionaires-John D. MacArthur a•td DAniel K. Ludwig, the financial magazine Fortune reports. 
Fortune, said both MacArthur and Ludwig were born in 1887 r nd both dropped out of school after the eighth grade. 
.,___On Campus Today--------.. 
3:25. '!.:30 -ascent of man film series---"the drive for power,"
r 
p.m. 3:30p.m. 
4:30p.m. 
5 p.m. 
8 p.m. 

eng. aud. spon. by college of sci 
-computer course ---"fortran," rm 115, computer center, math bldg. 
-recital ---cheng recital, prof liang tsai-ping, lib aud. spons. by committee on asian studies, dept. of modern and classical languages, office of fmeign studies and music dept admi~sion free 
-lecture ---"appraising project appraisal --some euthiopian exepriences" by prof. gene ellis, rm 120, hayes-healy center spons. by econ. dPpt.$ 
-drama--" charlie and company, o'Jaughlin aud , $3 gPneral admission, $2 students, spons. by cultural arts comm. 

Floridian turns his house 
into 'creative nightmare' 
MIRAMAR, Fla.(AP) -A dis­membered body, a guillotine over a screaming head, rain, thunder and lightning, cobwebs, and Franken­stein are surprises for the trick-or­treater arricing at Bill Schuck's house. 
Schuck, who calls himself"the Devil's Advocate," turned his par­ent's quiet residential home into an intricate jorror fantasy and he opened it up to hundreds of children -for free. 
··welcome to my creative night­mare.·· said Schuck, who turned 19 on Halloween Eve. The bearded Schuck. his hair dusted with gray coloring. wears a cape, ruffled shirt and other clothes reminiscent of garb worn in horror movies. 
He jas converted the front yard into a weedy cemetery with real tombstones imported from West Virginia. Hidden sprinklers pro­vide rain, strobe lights flash light­ning and a tape recorder emits thunder. 
A woman's head whispers ghoul­ish epithets from within a crystal ball -the result of a continuous tape player-movie projector under the table. Mirrors and lights combine to suggest ghosts and dis­membered bodies. A real human skeleton rests in a black coffin. Fifteen life-like statues of charac-­ters ranging from Frankenstein to Regan of the "Exorcist" are in the 
border patrol police, special forces units and troops of the Thai army's 
3rd  division.  Searches  of  Viet­ 
namese  homes  are  every  day  
occurrences.  

With more than 4,000 to 5,000 old-time Vietnamese residents and 16,000 refugees from Communist­governed Laos across the Mekong River from here, the area is considered by Thai authorities a potential hotbed of Communist subversion. 
There is another reason for increased police and army surveil­ance in Nong Khai, a Mekong River crossing point into Laos. The provincial governor says that more than 300 leftist Thai students, polit\cians and Vietnamese subver­sives have fled to Laos since the military took power in Thailand in a coup 0ct. 6. 
Some Thais and Vietnamese confided that a few of their friends had crossed the half-mile-wide Mekong since the military seized power and began a sweep of what it considers potential subversives. 
"I was sitting in my house. Suddenly three policemen came in and began searching through every room," said the Vietnamese pri­soner, Tran Van Linh, in an interview in jail. "They took portraits of Ho Chi Minh from the wall and private correspondence with friends of mine in Hanoi. Of course I have friends in Vietnam, but I'm not a subversive." 
Linh, a merchant who has lived in Thailand for 19 years, said he is ready to return to Vietnam if Hanoi and Bangkok reached an agree-


yard. 



Martial law regime cracks down on Vietnamese in Thailand 
Nong Khai, Thailand -The new 
martiallawregimeis cracking down 
on the large Vietnamese com­
munity in Thailand. It claims the 
actions are designed to control 
areas of potential Communist sub­
version. 
"It looks like we Vietnamese will 
have no more freedom in this 
country." said one of the nearly 
100 Vietnamese arrested in Nong 
Khai. "The government is getting 
tougher and tougher on us." 
Police here say they have seized 
about 3,000 documents thev 
describe as Communist in nat~re, 
pictures of the late President Ho 
Chi Minh of North Vietnam and 
private correspondence between 
Vietnamese in Thailand and Viet­
nam. 
Nong Khai, a town of about 
50.000 people, is stirring with 

Theology Dept. receives grant 
A gift to the University will be used to endow a Memorial Library collection to further Judaic studies within the Department of Theol­ogy. 
The gift, presented by Edward Ab, ams, a 1950 Notre Dame grad­uate, will be used to establish the Alfred R. and Lee Abrams Collec­tion of Hebrew and Jewish Studies, in honor of his mother and his father, Alfred R. Abrams, a 1921 Notre Dame alumnus . 
Fr. Hesburgh, in expressing his gratitude to Mr. Abrams, said the endowment will allow the Univer­ment. 
Thailand's Vietnamese minority, living chiefly in the northeast and numbering some 60,000, has been a source of tension between Viet­nam and Thailand since the early 1950's, when thousands fled their homeland in the wake of the French-Indochina war. 
Numerous efforts at repatriation have proven fruitless. With the growth of Thailand's Communist insurgency, the economically influ­ential Vietnamese community has been regarded by many as a breeding ground for guerrillas and a channel for Hanoi's support of the rebellion. 
One of the first announcements of the new government was to accuse ''Vietnamese Communists'' of agitating student demonstra­tions in Bangkok which led to bloody street fighting Oct. 6. 
Official Vietnamese media res­ponded with propaganda blasts at Bangkok, accusing the new regime of persecuting the Vietnamese minority. 
Tht> Ob.,erwr " publo~ho•d Monday through I roday and weekly durong the summer ~f>~soon, f>Xcf>pt durong thE> exam and vacatoon perood' The Ob~t>rver •~ publoshed by .. tudents of the UnovPrsoty of Notre Oame and St Mary's College Subscroptions may bt-purchased for $10 pt>r year ($10 pt•r semester) irom The Obser­ver. Box Q, Notre DamE>, Indiana 46~~6 Second class postage paod, Notre Oame, lndoana 46556 
Tht> Observer os a member of the Assouatt>d Press All reproductoon roghts arP reserved 

KEEP DICK BODINE a major role in getting judicial reform underway in the State of Indiana. In theWORKING IN. last three years he has led the fight to reduce the more than 350 agencies in state INDIANAPOLIS FOR government and to cut overlapping and 
duplication.

YOU!! Dick Bodine has consistently led the fight to bring more industry and jobs to the Paid for by Citizens for Bodine State of Indiana and has been deeply Odessa G Earles Chairman . concerned about the problems of vocation-
John o. Bodine, Treasurer •. ~,., .... ~! .r~~.a.bili!~tipn for the handicapped. 

-----------------------===~ 


Carter and Ford view drugs 
by William S. Nichols Asst. Features Editor 

A sharp difference of opmtons about drug enforcement and illeg­ality mark the campaign promised of Gerald Ford and his challenger, Jimmy Carter. 
While Gerald Ford urges stron­ger legal penalties for dealers and lessened sentences for users, re­presentatives from the Carter camp have been meeting with represen­tatives from NORML, a marijuana decriminalization organization. 
There are speculations that Dr. Peter G. Bourne, a noted radical psychiatrist will be named as director of the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) if Carter is elected. President Ford has favored a strengthening of the DEA through a budget increase and an increase in agents. He is not considering replacing current director, Peter G. Bensinger. 
Bourne was one of the founders of the Vietnam Veterans Against the War, and did early drug-addic­tion research at the Haight-Ash­bury Free Clinic. He was the chief health and mental health advisor for Georgia during Carter's term as governor, and developed the state' first drug-abuse program. He has come out publicly for the complete decrimimltzation of mari­juana and a revamping of current drug treatment programs. He said that he had "mixed feelings"about the DEA and its role in enforce­ment. 
Carter has also personally en­dorsed decriminalization of mari­juana, but believes that the indivi­dual states should decide the legality of tlte drug. 
On the other side, President Ford is against the decriminiliza­tion of marijuana, stating that decriminalization will lead to a greater use of the drug. He does favor lessening penalties for simple possession to a maximum of 30 days. However, he also favors mandatory sentences from three to thirty years for all drug smugglers and sellers. 
Representatives of the Ford campaign stated that "there is no difference between marijuana and hard drug pushers to us." Ford is also urging a larger increase in the DEA budget for 1977-78, both for an increase of field agents and for a !!ystem of community treatment centers for hard drug addicts. He wants a review of the DEA made during the upcoming year but is satisfied with the performance of the current director Bensinger. 
The agency has been under fire recently both from Congress and from the press. Indiana Senator, Birch Bayh, confronted the DEA director about a proposed Federal Law aimed at heroin · trafficers, but possibly applicable to small time pot dealers and users. Stating "We're talking about decriminali­zation that would stop making criminals of our youth," Bayh badgered Bensinger about results from current testing that says that marijuana is relatively safe. Bayh also questioned the civil rights of tough anti-heroin measrues when used against marijuana smokers. 
Another Senate committee re­cently confirmed that the CIA plays a major role in th intelligence gathering operations of the DEA and that the DEA uses large amounts of Federal funds for buying drugs in the hopes of entrapping some major operatives in international smuggling opera­tions. According to Senator Sam Nunn, acting chairman of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on investigations, "the activities of the DEA could operationally esta­blish a national pollee force. ' 

Students protest in Africa 
SOWETO* South Africa ap ­Protest goes among the black youths of Soweto. Police raid homes in search of student mili­tants and many arrests have been reported. The township's largest -schoos are all but deserted even though it is final-exam time. 
Black elders still preach modera­tion to their young but as the killing and arrest of youths continue their anger appears to be growin~. One 
Recovery of Phoenix jet hampered by gale winds 
LONDON -A U.S. Navy team conquered gale winds and heaving seas yesterday to retrieve a Phoenix missile that fell from an aircraft carrier six weeks ago and plunged to the bottom of the Atlantic off Scotland. 
The rough weather prevented raising the F14 Tomcat jet fighter that sank with the highly classified missile off the aircraft carrier John 
F. Kennedy on Sept. 14, the Navy reported. It will be attempted when the sea calms. 
Discovery of the jet 10 days ago and Sunday's recovery of the Phoenix put an end to fears, minimized by the Navy, that Soviet ships might snatch the $20 million plane and $515,000 missile. 
The missile had a nonnuclear warhead but capture of a Phoenix and F14 would have provided technical data to a potential adver­sary. 
''The important thing is we got it and nobody else has it," a Navy spokesman said. He reported the missile was "intact with only light damage'' but it was too early to tell if it could be made useable. 
The Phoenix-equipped Tomcat is one of the Navy's major weapons against missiles and planes. 
A small nuclear submarine with a television camera and five crew­men located the 13-foot-long, 15­inch diameter missile Saturday morning after a search of the muddy bottom that one officer likened to trying to find a needle in a haystack the size of London's 341-acre Hyde Park. 
.Jhe sub, equipped with port­holes so the crew could observe the 1,900-foot-deep ocean floor, ex­tended a remote control arm and grasped the missile in a clam-shell like hand. 
Navy divers descended into the icy waters and 10-foot waves 75 miles northwest of Scapa Flow, Scotland and fixed straps to the missile. It was raised more than one-third of a mile to the surfacr and hoisted aboard the submarine support vessel Sunbird. 
The Phoenix is for use against antishlp missiles. An F14 can fire six at a time against separate targets up to 100 miles away. The system is reputed to be highly resistant to jamming. 
The sunken Tomcat, which plunged off the Kennedy's flight deck when engine controls mal­functioned during a North Atlantic Treaty Organization maneuver, rests in about 1,500 feet of water about three miles from where the missile was pulled up. 
Volunteers Office 
needs people 
The Office of Volunteer Services 
has received numerous individuaL 
requests from members of the 
South Bend community for student 
volunteers to perform the following 
services: 
--Act as companion for an elderly • 
couple 
--Be a boy scout troop leader 
--Tutor a high school girl in 
chemistry 
--Tutor a 44-year-old man, who is 
preparing for college in high school 
Algebra 
--Be a live-in companion and tutor 
for a 19-year-old high school girl 
who is mentally retarded 
--Tutor an 11-year-old girl who is in 
special education 
--Help the American Cancer Soci­
ety with special fund-raising e­
vents 
--Tutor a first gr~de girl in reading 
Anyone interested in volunteer­
ing for these or any other services 
should contact Joan Griffin or Pete 
Wolf at 7308 or come to the 
Volunteer Services office on the-1.5 
floor of LaFortune. 


ALL NEW 
Delicious 
liafian 
Elegant 
Atmosphere 
Cocktails 

.EI 4 P.l. 101. thru SAT. Lecatllt 2Milutes frotn N.D. at 4tt· N. ..St. leU-Ph. 233-22&7
. 
. . 

black militant leader saw LIIL 
moderate parents of protesting 
youths are now becoming politi­
cized. 
The militancy of the young,and 
the anguish of their parents were 
the h>o th;ngs that stood out during 
an eight-hour tour by this corres­
pondent of the black township of a 
million people 10 miles outside 
Johanesburg. 
Black school officials said the protest now is in the nature of an exam boycott by the students ­whereas last June it was rioting. 
Students still. clash with police in Langa, outside Cape Town. A bomb recently went off in a· Jabulani Police station in the heart of Soweto and student pamphlets call for a new nationwide strike by blacks. 
Black school officals here threw their hands up and said most of their students were boycotting examinations as part of the protest. 

Monday, November 1, 1976 the ob 



Tickets on sale today for 'Second City,' a play 
The Second City Touring Comp­any will present "From The Second City" at SMC, on Saturday, Nov. 6. Sponsored by the SMC Cocial Commission and Holy Cross Hall, :the performance will be at #;30 
p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
"We're hoping for a really big turnout," stated Mary Klassen, SMC Social Commissioner. "They're a good group, and should be funny," she concluded. 
In "From The Second City," profound topics like love, death, money. politics and psychology for1p the basis of the satire in scens that examine and comment on our behavior and manners. · In the belief that five, six or seven heads are better than one. The Second City develops most of its material in a performing situation. The actors improvise on ideas sug­gested by the audience, by the j directors and by some of their own numbers. Without sets lmd employing only a few hand props and improvised costumes, the act­ors create an entire world of humor I 
and satire. The show consists of 1 two 45-minute segments adn a half-hour intermission. 
Founded 17 years ago in Chi­cago, the Second City is highly regarded by stage and TV pro­ducers and directors as a training ground for new talent. Mike Nichols, Elaine May. Valerie Har­per, Joan Rivers. Alan Arkin, Robert Klein and Barbara Harris are some of the major talent who are Seconcl. City verterans. · 
Tickets are $1.50 for students and $2 for general admission. They will be on sale starting Monday in ; 239 Moreau Hall and starting ; Wednesday in the SMC dining haiL ; 
There will be no reserved seats. 
NOTICE 
Because of the need to better serve you during the Holiday Seasons, we suggest Airline reservations and tickets be cxmfirmed prior to your departure date. This will enable us to honor your personal check. 
FIRST BANK TRAVEL ON CAMPUS BADIN HALL 283 -7080 
.-rnichae~s 



nairst'-'LinQ
etc. 

FOR APPT. CALL: 272-7222 18381 EDISON RD. AT SO. BEND AVE. 
PHYSICS COURSES for Non-Science Majors 
The three courses described below will be offered by the Department of Physics in the spring 1977 semester. They are particularly well suited for non-science majors--though not restricted to them. 
Physics 204: Nuclear Energy: Its Physics and its Social Challenge -3 credits 
Basic ideas of modern nuclear science; nuclear radiations and hazards; weapons technology and control; power from nuclear, fossil-fuel, solar and gas thermal sources compared. No prerequisites. Instructor: Professor V. Paul Kenny (Extension 745.1.) 
Physics 21 o: Descriptive Astronomy -3 credits 
A description of the motions, distribution, and structure of the planets, sun, star system and galaxies. Some observational work is included. A one-year introductory science course including at least one semester of physical science as a prerequisite. Instructors: Professor James L. Shilts (Extension 7732) Professor Walter R. Johnson (Extension 7463) 
Physics 206: Concepts of Relativity -3 a-edits 
A discussion of Einstein's Sepcial and Ceneral Theories of Relativity. Concepts djscussed include time dilation, causality, mass-energy equival­ence, curved space, black-holes, and cosmology. a one-year introductory physical science course is a prerequisite. Instructors: Professor Sperry e. Darden {Extension 7262) Professor William D. McGlinn (Extension 7095) 
Further information, as well as course syllabi, can be obtain~d either by contacting the instructors at the extensions listed above or by stopping in at the Depatment of Physics Office in Room 225 of Nieuwland Science Hall (extension 6386.) 

f 

f 4 ____~t~h~e~~o~b~s~e~r~v~e~r~_______M_o_n_da~y~,~~~o_v_em_b_e_r_l~,_l9_7_6 
Where to vote· tomorrow 
Indiana law requires voters to Northeast Neighborhood Center, South Bend District 4, Precinct 11: vote at the polling place assigned to corner of N .D.Ave and South Bend N. Indiana State Hospital, souththe precinct in which the voter Ave door, 1234 N. Notre Dame Ave.
resides. 

Campus View: Prince of Peace South Bend, District 4, Precinct 12: Polls are open from 6 a.m. to 6 Brethren Church, 53105 N. Iron-Perley School, 740 N. Eddy.
p.m. Your precinct is indicated on wood the wallet registration card issued South Bend, District 4, Precinct 9: by the voter regisration office. ND Graduate Women's Town­N.E. Side Neighborhood Center, 
houses: Prince of Peace Brethren 803 N. N.D. Ave.
Some area voting places: 

Church, 53105 N. Ironwood. Notre Dame campus proper: 
South Bend, District 4, Precinct 22: Turtle Creek Apartments: Turtle Turtle Creek Clubhouse. 
ground floor, Administration build 
Creek Clubhouse. 
in g. 

University Village: Roseland Town South Bend Clay 1: Roseland St. Mary's and Holy Cross Junior Hall, 200 Independence Drive. Town Hall, 200 Independence Dr. College: St. Mary's convent, Augusta HalL dining room. South Bend District 4,' Precinct 3: South Bend Clay 2: Prince of 
N. Indiana State Hospital, Front Brethren Church, 53105 N. Iron­
Notre Dame Avenue Apartments: wood.
lobby 1234 N. Notre Dame Ave. 
~-;____ 

t 
I 
! 
! 
*******************• 


CAMPAIGN 
P.B. 


******************** 

Albums 
live At CBGB's 

Dominick Salemi 

Yeah, I know we're going broke and 
everyone's moving out on us and we were 
just humiliated by the Reds in the Series 
and just lost the greatest entertainer in 
show business in Dr. J. 
That don't mean nothin'. We've still got 
Lou Reed, the Ramones, and CBGB's, 
where the best rock and roll in the world is 
currently being played. No matter how big 
Arrowsmith is I'd match Tuff Darts or 
Mink Deville with them anyday. Who need 
Stephen Tyler's histrionic Mick Jagger 
impersoantions when Mink sounds more 
like Jagger than Jagger himself. One 
thing's for sure; the people at CBGB's 
won't need reviews from Rolling Stone of 
Creem to tell everyone how good this Ip is; 
one listen is all anyone will need. 
CBGB's would be the Ip of the year but 
Lou's just released Rock and RoU Heart so I 
guess the people at Atlantic and CBGB's 
are going to have to settle for second best. 
Then agian the Ramones lp was such a 
killer that maybe this should be considered 
the third best release of the year. 
Anyway you look at it though, all three 
albums are indispensable thus making all 
distinctions unnecessary. Does anyone 
differentiate between Beethoven's nine 
symphonies? No, if you're at all cultured 
you buy all of them, as well as the violin 
concertos and the piano sonatas. 
Leaving aesthetic theory aside for the moment. I should explain to those of you who live outside the Big Apple that CBGB is a small bar on the lower east side of New York. The Bowery to be exact. Once a hang out for alcoholics, muggers, rapers, and other assorted deviates, it was purchased by one Hilly Krista! who decided to turn it over to local talent for bigger bucks and a better clientele. The change from a Bowery bar to an under­ground club didn't req:.Jire much costly renovation, only the addition of a small wooden platform at one end of the room. 
The closing of Max's Kansas City in the early 70's, which also served as a forum for indigenous talent, helped turn CBGB into the biggest undergound club in New York City. The resurgence of this scene was due in part to Kristal's gamble in letting unknown bands play the club as well as his audience's willingness to listen to them. Soon it became hip to be seen at the bar, and when the place started gettng heavy media coverage from the local papers, the rock magazines picked up on it and gave it the national exposure it needed. 
The underground Kenatssance was tinal­ly made available to hungry listeners earlier this year when the Ramones became the first group to land a record contract. The critical success of their first Ip found almost every major label . in pursuit of popular New York band.s, wtth Television and Talking Heads parttcularly sought after. 
Despite the absence of the more popular acts, as well as the two premier groups already mentioned, Live at CBGB's is the 

Mouies 
When we first see Alexander Main (Jack Lemmon), he is putting out his garbage. It is somehow fitting, for in that simplistic ritual is contained the sum total of his life. He is the product of his own creation, a chronic complainer who doesn't wallow in self-pity only becuase he fears the quag­mire will pull him in deeper. 
He is at his best when insulting his bookkeeper or recounting the glories of habeas corpus. He is a loner who alienates and abuses almost everyone he knows for his own amusement. And it is for this reason, the film would have us believe, that he falls in love with Maritza (Gene­vieve Bujold). It is because he i s really a very lonely middle-aged bailbondsman looking for a hand to hold and a spirit ~o cherish in a cruel and unsympathetic world. 
From the very beginning, the story 
doesn't work. Neither Main nor the gypsy seem capable of love; their relationship is more a matter of honor amongst theives. They are a couple of hustlers who stay together not because ' each represents something the other dearly needs (osten­sibly, security for her and ''the gypsy in his soul" for him). It is because misery loves company. And if they live i~ a .cr';'el, unfeeling world, they are not tts vtcbms but its leading citizens. . 
Director John Korty daesn't bother to . 
explore ·the motives and 'emotions (what".­
pure embodiment of the spirit of rock and roll, combining infectious enthusiasm, passionate intensity, a sense of drama, and stylistic panache. Besides, it is the 9nly shot at fame for most of these groups so they're giving it all they've got. 
Though many of the groups represented here are simplistic and often very deriva­entire reper .. 'ire ' songs on this albmu.; bands with little or no commercilil potentia., playing merely for kicks and beer money. Some of the other groups haven't been signe~ to record contracts but at le~tst are included in Punk's listing of the Top Ten Underground Ba, ds. 
Not much of a claim to fame I grant you 

tive, they are never boring. Sun for example, clearly pattern themselves after Led Zepplin, Nikki Buzz's feral growls and the almost frantic, scattered style of lead-guitarist Randy Fredeux recall Page and Plant. Yet their "Romance" is infinitely better than anything on the lackluster Presence or the stillborn "live" lp. 
Manster has its roots tirmly entrencneo in middle 60's :Bdtish rock. Their inane version of the Yardbirds' "Over, Under Sideways, Down," however is not' a cover but an illustration of the effects of speed on the central nervouw system. Vocalist Warren Stahurski is reduced to a scream­ing maniac as a result of ~ ~lazing interchange between the two gmtartsts. 
The innocuous Stuart's Hammer demon­. strates an intelligent sense of humor. when 
thev declare that they are gomg to 
throw "morality over their shoulder," and 
then proceed to do just that with a 
decadent imitation of the Grass Roots. 
The.~e 'tre only the minor groups, whose but at least local recognition. 
Tuff Darts is a moronic name for a group that excells in unpretentious and somewhat restrained rock and roll. They combine late 60's British rock (notably Bowie and the later-day Stones), with a highly polished sound. The three selections on this lp are all perfect examples of their musical approach. "All For Love," which kicks off the lp is an inspiring rock anthem, a commitment to the power and pasion of rock arid roll. "Head Over Heels," takes a cliched riff and adds decadent attitudes to produce an infectious paean to adolescent defiance. "Slash," a toned down version of Bowie's "Cracked Actor," is a sleazy love song that brilliantly depicts the rancor that develops in relationships that lack purposeful communication: 
I'd rather slash my wrists 
And cut my throat Than have to spend the night with you 
Your fancies are the pits 
You must be one sick bitch 
To want to do what you say you do 
Alex and the Gypsy 
little there are) of his characters. When Marita leaves Alex, we are given no indication why. Korty probably relies on his audience to pick up on the gypsy thing and come up with some excuse. But that is just the problem with this film; it is recklessly thrown together in the hope that the audience will cling to and relate with some small shred of either character's personality. The strategy fails, and with it the film, because they are a couple of malcontents who deserve each other and no more. 
We learn about the prior relationship through a series af poorly-constructed and ill-timed flashbacks. What the movie deals with directly is their reunion six years later that comes about when Maritza calls Alex to bail her out of jail. It seems she stabbed her husband in bed, which comes as no great surprise. 
In any event, the two spend a blissful four days sharing sex and hateful, Maritza handcuffed to the bed:She has become an investment, one that Main's bail bond business can't afford to lose should she decide to skip town again. 
But in the end, Main's mind succumbs to his emotion and he sets her free, like some wild animal that will die in captivity. He 


wavers to her as she flies off into the sun, vowing to follow her to Mazitlan and wherever her gypsy spirit takes her. One · can only wish it tyakes them both far, far 
It's hard to believe especially in the face 
of Ivrical brilliance like that, there could 
possibly exist a better group than Tuff 
Darts. Well there isn't one but lead singer 
Mink Deville of the group with the same 
nom de guerre, has the most talent. It is 
publically admitted that Mink has the 
finest set of pipes in all the NY. and 
although his band confesses that they 
are oDJy a oackdrop for Mink's continual 
impersonations of Mick Jagger, they 
provide more· than adequate support. A 
very fine songwriter as well, Mink's 
compositions are both intelligent and 
evocative, a quality that is hard to come by 
on the CBGB scene. Most of his songs are 
strongly flavored with elements of r&b and 
reggae 

But they are not merely derivative 
imitations as one critic has suggested. 
"Cadillac Moon," i', a sensitive ballad that 
is moving because of the insistence of the 
singer that he will someday achieve 
success in the face of the suffering and 
pain he has experienced. Yet by the song's 
end we are forced to realize that the singer 
has missed his chance and there is now 
nothing left for him but dreams. symbo­
lized in his vision of the Cadillac moon. 
"Change It Comes," one of the other 
two cuts by Mink on the lp is a dynamic 
reggae number. It visualizes a time in the 
not too distant future when men can live 
together as brothers; a cliched sentiment 
that is belied by the calliope-like quality of 
a Fender Rhodes, a haunting reminder of 
lost innocence and the "change" that will 
probably never come. 
The Shirts are another group with a talented lead singer in Annie Golden but they are also an instrumentally sound band as well. If you thought that Kiss was al that Brooklyn had to offer in terms of musical sophistication and style you had better guess again stooge because "da Shoits," as they call themselves, are gonna turn your head around. They combine interesting rhythms and affecting melodies and sound something like the Doors if they had. had a female singer. "Operetico," one of ,their three compositions on the album, would be the single of the year if they could raise the funds to release it. A strongly sycopated beat, an ethereal melody and the use of dual leads are utilized to create a frenzied clamorous backdrop over which the vocals are passionately sung. 
It definitely appears as if New York has become the capital of the rock and roll world. With CBGB's providing the forum and Lou Reed and Patti Smith the inspiration, the underground scene has burgeoned into a Renaissance movement that has restored the vitality and purpose to an art form, that seemed to be in disastrous decline. 
I for one know rock and roll is still alive. I recently saw the Ramones at a small club in Washington and their thirty minute set did more to restore my confidnece in the power of rock and roll than anything I've heard in the past five years. 

Dauid O'Keefe 

he does his best to bring some semblance of credibility and dimension to his char­acter, but even his efforts are not enough to overcome the inherent problems of the movie. And in the end, Alell and the Gypsy is a squalid and predictable as the characters it depicts. 





needs: 
-writers -layout staff 

~--------------------------------~---------------------------------------------------------------------­

"*The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Business Manager Tom Fronczak Advertising Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor Tony Chifari Production Manager Martha L. Fanning 
~ 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Phones: (219) 283-8661 [ND] (219) 284-5365 [SMC] 
EDITORIAl BOARD 

Thomas O'Neil  Editor-in-Chief  
Dan Sanchez  Managing Editor  
Chris Smith  Asst. Managing Ed.  
Gregg Bangs  Executive Editor  
Val Zurblis  Executive Editor  
Pat Hanifin  Editorial Editor  
Bob Mader  Exec. News Editor  
Maureen Flynn  Campus Editor  
Marti Hogan  St. Mary's Editor  
Don Reimer  Copy Editor  
Tim O'Reiley  Features Editor  
Fred Herbst  Sports Editor  

Monday, November I. 1976 

Carter's The One! 
It's time for a change. It's time to change a four-year non-policy of a political drift. Since Richard Nixon first began to use to the White House as a bunker to defend himself against Watergate charges, the Chief Executive has ceased to lead the nation. President Ford, while he is a sincere and honest man, has continued the non-leadership of his predecessor's final days.
Jimmy Carter, in his aggressive two­year campaign, has shown he is not satisfied with the country's current course and if elected he will provide active leadership which can, in John Kennedy's words, "get the country moving again." 
Many people have said in the course of this campaign that it does not matter who wins. Although neither man has been successful at getting his case across, there are differences between them. Granted, these are differences of degree. Still, they are substantial enough to justify voting for Carter. Consider the issues'; 
. The Economy: During the term of the man elected Tuesday, we students will be entering the job market. It is clear that Ford will continue the policies of the last two years, policies which according to the latest statistics, do not even achieve the slow recovery he aims for. Carter has shown more interest in the impact of our weak economy on individuals; He would have the government provide last-resort i>bs and use it's influence to spur the sagging economy. 
. Energy and the Environment; The effects of Ford's inactivity and "govern­ment by veto" are clearer here than anywhere else. Dependence on unreliable foreign oil sources continues to increase. Insofar as President Ford has an energy policy at all it is one of support for Big Oil. Carter on the other hand, favors strict government regulation of oil companies and independent development of new sources. Ford emphasizes nuclear energy as an alternative, whereas Carter prefers developing new non-nuclear sources. 
Carter, both in his record as governor of Georgia and in his campaign, has shown a sincere interest in preserving the environment. Ford has been willing to sacrifice the environment for ' alleged economic benefit as in his veto of the strip mining bill (a bill which had the support of 


A Little SomethingExtra 
Dear Editor: 

Relating to the University's policy on alcoholic beverages, I came across some interesting information in S.E. Morison's The 
InteUectual Life Of Coloalal New England, assigned to me in American History. Harvard Col­lege, the first institution of higher learning founde'd in American (1636), is documented to have 

P. 0. Box Q 
the United Mine Workers). . Health, Education and Welfare Refonn: Carter favors more federal government support for social justice programs in these areas. He wished to phase in a greatly needed national health insurance progrnm which Ford vehemently opposes on the grounds that it would reduce the quality of health care. Ford apparently has not noticed the current dismal quality of health care for millions of poor Americans. Ford has vetoed increased federal support for education while Carter would increase it, realizing America's future lies in its educated citizens. Although both candi­dates criticize the existing welfare struc­ture, Carter has promised a major overhaul geared toward jobs for those who can work, and a single payment for those who cannot. Ford has done nothing more for welfare reform than for anything else. 
Government Reorganization: Carter has made this a major issue. He reformed the Georgia beauracrary in his term as governor while, Ford in his two years as president, has done nothing about the federal reorganization. In fact, Ford started mentioning the subject only after Carter had been talking about it for over a year. . The Men Themselves: Both candidates have persuaded many voters that they are mediocre men. Certainly neither could be called a charismatic personality. But a competent leader need not be a flashy one. He must however be an active one. Ford has shown, not only in the White House, but throughout his entire political career, that he stands for drifting with the status quo. Not only will he not rock the boat, he will not steer it either. 
Admittedly, Carter is more of an unknown quantity. That can be said of any challenger running against an incumbent. But despite Ford's charges of vagueness, Carter has made his positions about as clear as positions of any candidates are. More importantly, perhaps, he represents a chance for dynamic leadership and is not satisfied with the status quo. Realizing that America can still become a much better nation, he is willing to take risks to make-it better. · 
The basic choice in this election is between four more years of drift or a new beginning~ America needs that new beginning. Carter is the best choice. 


served beer with daily meals. (A Puritan-founded school) God only knows how this "corrupt"· prac· tice was ever allowed to continue since the Puritan Church dis­dained the use of alcohol almost to the point of prohibition. Perhaps it lies in the fact that they were a "bearded" people; but Morison does not say, however, it defi­nitely was drunk openly and without pride, and although it may have been a little sour at times, I'd bet seven points on my next Emil that it was (burp!) good. 
Seeitf as how the Catholic 
Church hardly even frowns upon getting plastered up against the wall, and how this is the Bicen­tennial Year. which means we are supposed to bring to life the traditions of our glorious past, would it nOt be tangible for our cafeteria to serve a bottle o' brew with our next steak dinner? -in the spirit of Cotton Mather, John Harvard, Ben Franklin -what a service we would do to our country! Hail Not~e Dame for inspiring me with. ~uch an idea! 
Name withheld by request 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
NOW, JUSTA MINUT!3, 'f()/}NG 
LA/:Jf! IAC£YHAS 8E£N 
R/JNNIN6 FOR ?HAT5£AT RJR 71!/etv£ >FAI<S!ANP NO ONE IN THIS COMMlJN!TY IS MOR/3 
{){!S£/MN6 OF fT.I 
/ 
GO~ 
I HAT£ BEING 
NOBU! I 

Seriously, Folks 

The Debates Are Cancelled 
~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~art buchwald 
HOLLYWOOD--The TV net­works are atarting to cancel their fall shows that didn't make it. One of the first to go will be the presidential debates. Television executives from all networks have decided the show just doesn't have enough interest to continue it through the rest of the year. 
They called in the TV agents for Jimmy Carter and President Ford. 
The programming director of CBS said,"We're sorry, boys, but the debates have to go.'' 
"But the ratings have been fantastic," Ford's agent protested. 
''They were good,'' a man from NBC said,"but-the problem is that in spite of the ratings we couldn't get a sponsor . Nobody .would buy it for a series." 
The ABC programming chief said. "It just wasn't playing in Peoria. People don't want to hear about unemployment, inflation and wheat embargoes. They want entertainment. We had hopes for this_show when we put it on the air, but we didn't know it was going to be so dQ__wnbeat." 
The Ford man said, "That wasn't our fault. Carter was the one who made the debates down­beat. He kept talking about what a mess the tax system was, how the poor and the old weren't getting anything out of the government and how the cities were being ignored by the Republicans. Ford was upbeat. He talked about the Fo4rth of July and how his Admin­istration had solved the economic and environmrntal problems of the country. Play the tapes back and you'll see that Ford made it a happy show, but Carter kept throw­ing cold water on it.'' t 
The Carter man said, "Oh yeah? All Ford kept doing during the debates was to spout a lot of figures that put half the country to sleep. Carter was the one who put life into the show and kept people on the edge of their sea~s.'' 
The CBS programming chief said, "There is no sense bla.ming each other. The format wasn't right to start with. You can't have two wooden men standing in front of two wooden barrels and saying the same thing week after week and expect to hold the audience." 
"We'll change the format," the Ford man said. "We'll build a new set and have Betty Ford and Rosalyn Carter living next door to each other. They'll be good friends and their husbands will always be getting into trouble like Jackie Gleason and Art Carney on the Honeymooners. 
The ABC man said, "Gerry Ford and Jimmy Carter are not Jackie Gleason and Art Carney.'' 
Carter's agent said,"We'll add the Carter kids and the Ford kids to the show. They could always be getting into fights with each other and Amy Carter could keep bug­ging Gerry Ford and driving him crazy like 'Dennis the Menace'''. 
Ford's agent said, "Well make Jack Ford into another 'Fonzi' and Susan' Ford could play a 'Laverne' character." 
The Carter man said, "Ford could be an Archie Bunker." 
"Wait a minute," the Ford man said. "The President is not going to be Archie Bunker. I think Jimmy Carter should play a character like Redd Fox on Sanford•and Son."· 
Carter's agent said, "You're out of your mind.'' 
The NBC programming chief said,"Were sorry, gentlemen. It just won't work. We can buy Betty and Rosalyn and the Ford and Carter kids. But Gerry and Jimmy are just not up to playing situation comedy. The show has to go.'' 
"But what do we tell our client~? They put everything they had in the debates." 
The CBS man said, "Tell them that we may have a show for the one who wins the presidential election." 
"What kind of a show?" 
"We'll let him do a press conference in the White House. But not on a regular basis.'' 

'! 



Indiana Choices 
DOONESBURY 
I HAVE ANANNaN:EMEMTO/>W:E. A5 YOfJ k:NaU, flUENT ffU-5 HAVG 
SU66£STW 7HitTMY fACE RJR. CtJN­
GR£55 WI/.L NOW CWJ.YSEIM lJ 
~~~~·HWt~;~~~l 
CANOfl)J[$. 

ND-SMC, Life is an issue. Fight 
for it before it's too late! 
Mike Grady 

Hail Leviathan 

Dear Editor: 
"In America anyone can grow up to be President.'' Whoever is first accredited with that expression obviously never tried to run for this country's highest office as an independent candidate. Teddy · Roosev-elt tried it in 1912 and lost. George Wall ace tried it in 1968 and failed. The current Independent candidate for President, Eugene McCatthy, will no doubt meet a similar fate in the coming election. As those who have tried before him were painfully made aware, the most powerful monopoly in the United States is nut controlled by big business. but by this country's two major political parties. 
The D'emocratic and Republican parties are firmly established insti­tuti6ns. More than that, they have both succeeded in effectiv~y sup­pressing any kind of political competition outside their respect­
. ive arenas. Both Federal and State Government have evloved into a Leviathan structured to protect the interests of these two parties. The reason for this is that the name of the game is control. Any insti­tution that controls effectively has power. Fear gf losing control or giving up a part of it, is an obsession that afflicts dictatorships and democracies alike. To secure hegemony, 1t is necessary to devise a system of obstructions useful for warding off potential threats. All of it (of course) perfectly legal. How well does this system work? Very efficiently. One effective means of control in this country is our "nonpartisan" judicial pro­cess. Friday, October 22, 1976, the McCarthy campaign suffered a fatal setback in two separate court actions. The first was the decision by a New York State Supreme Court to remove McCarthy's name from the ballot. The order was given on technical' grounds that the candidate's nominating petitions were not in "proper form". Of course, it would be unthinkable to question the technical validity of the nominating petitions, or their signatures, for Jimmy Carter or Presiqent Ford. McCatrhy's eligi­bility was challenged because New York Democrats feared his candi­dacy might cost Carter the state's 
by Garry Trudeau 

41 electoral votes. 
The second blow was delivered by Chief Justice Warren Burger, who rejected McCarthy's petition to be included in the third presi­dential debate, or gain equal time in all three debates. Burger handed down his decision without any explaination. 
More important than the fact that a candidate's right to be heard was obstructed. The voter was denied a choice. It is not a question of whether or not McCarthy would make a good President. It is a matter of allowing the voters the opportunity to hear all sides, an_d determine for themselves who ts best qualified. 
·Deny a candidate equal access to the same channels of communica­tion used by his opponents, a~d his chances for election wi.JI become almost nil. The two court decisiQns have very effectively~ and very legally, insured what McCarthy's outcome in this election will be. As the final debate clearly revealed, nobody won -least of all the American people. 
Charles Kulig 


Proud, _but Not of Ford 
Dear Editor: 
I note with dismay the cam­
paign slogan of the President 
Ford Committee: "He's rriaking 
us feel proud again." The em­
phasis on "feel" is disturbing. Is 
the present administration foster­
ing in us illusory emotions, 
unsupported by accomplish­
ments? I believe so. 
I'm not proud of an administra­
tion which has done so little about 
unemployment at 7.8 percent, the 
declining ·rate of economic 

growth, and ri~ing inflation. I'm 
not proud of a president who 
makes light of totalitarian Com­
munist domihation of Eastern 
Europe and, under the guise of 

detente, furnishes the Soviet 
Union with war-supportive tech­
nology. I'm not proud of an 

administration which pushes for 
ever increasing defense budgets 
($112 billion!) in a tirue of 
"peace" but refuses to increase 

aid to education, housing, medi­
cal care, or environmental protec­
tion because these are "inflation­
ary." 
Please don't accuse me of 

being unpatriotic; I'm very proud 
of the United States, its ~ople, 
and its potential. But, I m not 
proud because of Gerald Ford. 
Kea Hallett 

Due to the large number of Notre Dame students registered in Indiana, extensive coverage was given to this state's guber­natorial and senatorial races as well as the election for the Third Congressional Dis­trict, which encomapasses Notre Dame. As a conclusion to this coverage we feel it is necessary to comment on the candidates and issues of these races. 
. Governor: Up until this year, an Indiana governor was legally barred from suc­ceeding himself. In the case of incumbant Otis "Doc" Bowen, we see no need to break from tradition. Bowen, in the same vein as Gerald· Ford, believes in the poilitics of the status quo. The result of this is ,generally mediocre record, particu­lary in the areas of public service and utilities. On the other hand, Democratic challenger Larr:' Conrad's strong economic stand·on the utilitl issue would result in using industry to help Indiana---instead of having the money filter out to other states. Perhaps most importantly to students, Conrad is also in favor of legislation which would lower the drinking age. We favor larry Conrad. 
. U.S. Senator: Incumbant Vance Hartke has managed to combine an ineffective career in the Senate and a reputation for supporting special interests. Most of his self-proclaimed hard work on legislation has come in the no-work position as co-sponsor. Republican challenger Rich­ard lllgar favors cutting high federal spending, but was responsible himself for high spending while he was mayor of Indianapolis. 

Their respective campaigns have been nothing better than low grade hack jobs. Both have charged each other with campaign spending violations, special interests for the job, to mention a few. Unfortuately, many of the charges re­garding both candidates' qualifications appear to be true. We offer no endorsement for either candidate. 
Third District Congressional Seat: In­cumbant John Brademas is the fourth­ranking Democrat in the House and has gotten there through hard work. His special area of concentration is education where his record has justly earned him Fr. Hesburgh's tag of "Mr. Education." Republican challenger and IUSB Politir.al Science Professor Thomas Thorsen has done nothing to distinguish himself in this campaign except to baselessly accuse Brademas of accepting illegal campaign rontributions. 
We support John Brademas. 


P. 0. Box Q 
forced to mono for a week, had a Fr. Hesburgh took part in its 
phase reversal for a week after that overtones. Certainly the abortion 
) and just last weekend WSND issue should be encompassed with­transmitted a loud hum, clicks and in this desired quality that Mr. linemen's voices for 20 minutes. Carter intends to pursue? If not, 
Why Not Go 

All The Way? 
This cannot by any stretch of the then maybe his morals should be at imagination be called a "quality" question also! 
Dear Editor: 
music broadcast. I feel that the heart of the moral A solution is available, a micro­issue you so ardently pursued has aAlthough I disagree with the wave system, costing about stain of selfishness hidden deepAdiT\inistration's recent stand on $8,000.00. The Administration has within its framework. Since whenWSND's programming, I wish that been made aware of the problem is it up to a mother to decidethey would be consistent with their and solution for the past several whether the child should live orprinciples. Bro. Paczesny cited the 
years but has taken no action. So die? 
1972 WSND staff report which let's see some consistency in the Because you or Mr. Carter arestated "WSND has as its primary Administration's new policies and only personally opposed worrie.s
goal to provide the highest quality get a real quality music broadcast me. For Mr. Carter, it'~ the sameserious music broadcast ... " True, 
out of WSND-FM. as a presidential candidate duringthis is a primary goal and for that the 1860's· saying that he wasWSND-FM has some high quality Eric Tweedell personally upposed to slavery butstudio equipment and one of the supported the Dred Scott decisionbest FM stereo transmitters for its which declared that the color ofpower class in the area. 
their skin made blacks non­

Life
But a chain is only as strong as persons! I will continue to picketits weakest link and there is a very and do anything I feel may help the 
Is on Issue
weak one. 
Pro-life cause because babies areWSND-FM's audio signal is being aborted once every 30transferred to the transmitter 8 

Dear Editor: seconds in the U.S. alone. Clearlymiles south of N.D. By Ma Bell's this should be reason enough toclass AAA phone lines, the best 
Mr. Herbig's atrocious letter on make it an issue! 
available. The cost of 2 lines _is Oct. 26th leaves me and hopefully I attempted to amass students$825.00 pe-year yet the quality is others troubled as to what he from both campuses to support the very poor. There is poor fr.equency issue this cam­considers an in Pro-Life cause during Mr. Carter's response, phase reversals, hums, 
paign. I seem to recall that Mr. visit. Not one showed up.dial pulses and other ·~sound 
Carter's speech at Notre Dame was However, buses of concerned citi­garbage." 
on the quality. of human life_ and zens of all ages came from as far asIn recent weeks WSND was that our condescending prestdent 120 miles! Don't fool yourselves 




-----~--­
the observer 

Awards in the amount of $908,357 were presented to the University during ther month of September. The awards will support individual faculty research 
projects, facilities, equipment and innovative educational and service programs, according to Dr. Robert 
E. Gordon, vice president ·for advanced studies. 
A wards for research alone to­taled $727.894. Among these awards. the largest was in the amount of $453,000 from the Energy Research and Development Administration (ERDA) for the studies of the effects of radiation on matter conducted by the Radiation laboratory under the direction of Dr. Robert H. Schuler. 
The second largest award was $131.605 from the National Insti­tute of Health (NIH) for the study of genetics and reproductive bio­logy of Aedes mosquitoes, con­ducted by Dr. George B. Craig, Jr., Clark professor of biology and director of the Vector Biology Labora tory. 
The NIH also awarded $24,534 to Dr. Francis J. Castellino's study of the structure and function of plas­minogen and plasmin, and $12,755 to Dr. Howard J. Saz's study ofthe intermediary metabolism of hel­miths. 
The National Science Foundation (NSF) awarded $73,000 for the study of solid solubility of hydro­carbons in light liquid hydro­carbons conducted by Dr. James P. Kohn and Dr. Kraemer D. Luks, professors of chemical engineer­ing. NSF also awarded $35,000 for the high energy participle physics projects directed by Drs. V. Paul Kenney, William D. Shepard, Neal 
M. Cason and Nripendra N. Biswas. 
ERDA also awarded $32,000 to the Radiation Laboratory and $13,000 for the study of contami­
.._ nation of groundwater by heavy metals from fly ash. conducted by Thomas L. Theis and Dr. Herry L. Marley. 
The U.S. Department .of CoJ;ll­merce gave $20,'000 forth(! study_Qf Monday, November 1, 1976 

preservation materials and meth­ods for historic abode structures by Dr. Erhard M. Winkler. 
Educational awards of $79,188 include a $49,188 award from the 
U.S. Office of Education for the Upward Bound program under the direction of Dr. Thomas F. Broden and Roland B. Smith, and a $30,000 award fro'm the Lilly Endowment for street law programs adminis­tered by Dr. David T. Link, dean of the Law School and Charles F. Crutchfield,asst. professor of law. 
A wards for service programs totaled $34,275 and included $20,000 from the Lilly Endowment, Inc. for a convocation on parish ministry directed by Msgr. John J. Egan. 
* 
* 
THE 

More new courses for spring 
(continued from page 1) areas of interest: First, the creative process and the artist's theories of compositions; secondly, the aesthetic response of the audience, and lastly, the criticism of the work of art. Prof. J. Thornton will be teaching the course. Contemporary Indians (BLST 
329) will be taught by Prof. J. Scott. The course will focus on Americans of African, Mexican, Asian and European descent. It will review and analyze the histori­cal and contemporary expericences of these groups and point out how they have been able to advance politically, socially and economical­ly in American society. 
Peoples of Southeast Asia ( BLST 
361) will study the changing rela­tions of the upland tribal groups to the lowland tropical forest king­doms of mainland Southeast Asia, Prof. P. Van Esterik will investi­gate the history of the area as well as new developments in political strategies and life styles among modern rural and urban Asians. 
Black Community Economic De­velopment (BLST 366) will analyze contemporary issues specifically related to that development. Many of the issues to be discussed are applicable to other raciaJ-,cultural groups. Prof. James Stewart will . introduce ecnomic concepts and 
Center to offer interview course 

tools of analysis as required. 
Black Americans and U.S. Go­vernment (BLST 422) will be taught by Prof. L. Serapiao. The course will examine the American govern­ment's response to Afro-American problems and needs. 
ECONOMICS has added three new courses, one of which, Theore­tical and Operational Approaches to Black Community Development (ECON 366), has already been discussed under Black Studies: 
Village Agriculture: Indian (ECON 314) will use economic analysis to understand agricultural problems common to villages in the developing nations: land tenure, new seeds, fertilizer, water, mar­kets, planning etc. Prof. B. O'Leary will consider the effects of government intervention and new Third World alignments as well as the increasing awareness of moral responsibility on the part of the developed world. 
Problems in Political Economy (ECON 416) will be a seminar course taught by Prof. R. Skurski. It will be concerned with policy problems such as energy and the environment, the military-industri­al complex, economic inequality, and discrimintion. Alternative policy prescriptions and methods of analysis will be discussed. 
ENGLISH is offering its majors five new courses: 
Novelist Steven Katz will teach Tools of the Avant-Gard (ENGL 410), an exploration through prac­tice of techniques employed by the literary avant-garde, collabora­tions, cut-ups, chance operations, automatic writing, intermedia, and use of whatever software is abvail­able. 
Introduction to Professional Lit­erary Studies (ENGL 500), to be taught by Prof. A. Soens, will concoern itself with hermeneutics and the carpentry of scholarship. 
Literary Criticism: Literature and Theology (ENGL 505B), to be taught by Prf. J. McDonald. The 
(continued on page 9) 

Passing them up at Fball games 
(continued from page 1) think they would stop. I think most of the girls don't mind at all." Reed King saw the possibility of the practice lessening with voiced disapproval from the women, stat­ing. "I think some guys would stop it, but I don't think the practice would stop. There would always be someone who would stilldo it." Another student felt that exces­sive discouragement from the wo­men might produce a reverse effect. "It might irritate the problem. It seems the more disapproval the girls at the game show. the more manhandled they are," he said, adding, "But, if it's done right, the more reasonable people might listen." 


PRESENTED BY NOTRE DAME CONCERl • 
COMMISSION  iC  
TICKETS $6.50, 5.50 ON SALE  ~  
MONDAY NOV. 1 AT: ACC STUDENT UNION AND ALL ACC OUTLETS. *--*-.·*·* -·* *·:~· ,15 *  ~ .lf  


Students about to enter the employment market can obtain help through a workshop on job interview skills, sponsored by the University Counselling Center. 
The workshop, conducted by members of the counselling center staff, will be held on three consecu­tive Wednesday --Nov. 3, 10 and 17 --from 7 p.m. to 8:30p.m., in room 400 of the Administration Building. . 
"We'll be emphasizing the com­munication skills involved in the job interview process," said Stan Freeman, workshop coordinator. "We'll use some structured exerci­ses using positive feedback to emphasize the potential that the person coming to the workshop already has." 
Hoffman said the workshop will help participants become aware of the abilities they have and feel better about using them. "We'll also engage in role-playing, so participants can see how others respond and get new ideas for possible responses in an interview situation," he added. 
Students can register for the workshop by calling the Counsel­ling Center at 1717. 



SMC Social Commission & Holy Cross Hall "present 
SECOND CITY 
Sat. Nov., 6--7:30pm O'Laughlin Auditorium $1.50--Students & Faculty ' $2.50--General Admission 
Ticket sales begin MONDAY and are available through SMC Programming Office, 4176 

the observer 

Still more new course offerings for spring semester 
(continued from page 8) 
seminar will be a concentrated 
effort to explore new territory, 
learning traditional research and 
teaching methods even as the class 
adapts them to relatively innova­
tive areas. 
Old Norse Language and Litera­
tore (ENGL 521) has been designed 
for undergrduate and graduate 
students learning the old Norse 
language and will serve as an 
introduction to the study of early 
Norse literature in the original 
language. Prof. L. Nicholson will 
be the instructor. 
Moder British Literature: D.H. 
Lawrence (ENGL 592) will look' at 
Lawrence as a major English 
novelist of the 20th century, as a 
peot, and a passionate critic of art 
and life, who even in his lifetime 
was seen to be the prophet of new 
forces and possibilities. Prof. J. E. 
Stewart will teach the course. 
GENERAL PROGRAM is intro­
ducing one new freshman level 
course entitled Introduction to the 
Humanities (GP 191). The course 
will treat liberal arts as tools of 
intellectual autonomy and instru­
ments of moral survival. The arts 
of discovery, analysis, proof and 
persuasion will be studied and 
developed through reading and 
careful discussion of a few philoso­
phers and writers of fiction. 
GOVERNMENT AND INTERNA­TIONAL STUDIES will offer one new 400-level course, International Relations of the Middle East (GOVT 431), to be taught by Prof. A. 
Dowty. 
HISTORY will offer its usual 
grab bag of 1 credit mini-courses 
all (HlST 345): 
From Jan. 19 to Feb. 18, 
students may choose to take either 
Pearl Harbor (Prof. Shaw) or World 
War I (Prof. B. Norling). Labor in 
American History (Prof. P. Glea­
son) and the Spanish Civil War 
(Prof. Norling) will be offered 
during the second session, Feb. 21 
to March 21. In the last session, 
April 1 to May 9, Business in 
American History (Prof. Gleason) 
and Separation of Church and State 
(Prof. S. Shapiro) will be available. 
Another History course, Modem 
Germany (HIST 422) is being · 
brought back and will be taught by 
Prof. W. Seelig. 
MANAGEMENT will' add two 
400-level courses to its spring 
curriculum: 
Administrative Law (MGT 462), 
to be taught by Prof. R. Hunter, 
will deal with regulatory agencies. 
Law and the Individual (MGT 
466) will present students with an opportunity to become familiar with the actual operation of the legal system as it applies to them. Areas to be considered include, individual rights and responsibili­ties in our criminal justice system, consumer law and landlord-tenant relations. Prof. W. Eagan will be the instructor. 
MODERN AND CLASSICAL LANGUAGES will introduce five new courses: 
Modem Japanese Fiction (MLJA 
450) will be taught by Prof. P. Anderer. Fr. L. Banas will teach Latin and Greek Scientific Termino­logy (CLLA 476). Survey French Philosophy (MLF~ 452) will be taught by Prof. V. Ori, and Prof. V. Profit will be the instructor for 20th Century European Prose (COML 462): 
Mythology Ancient Near East 
(CLAS 303) will delve into the 
meaning and function of myth in 
ancient Near Eastern cultures, 
especially Egyptian and Sumero­
Akkadian. The emphasis will be on 
close analysis and interpretation of 
actual ancient texts in translation, 
with a discussion of the validity of 
certain theoretical models of myth. 
PHILOSOPHY_ will add five new 

courses for the spring: 
Science and Technology (PHIL 
282). is a general elective course 
concerned with the development 
and use of computers and the 
philosophical implications of this 
advance. Prof. J. Garson will teach 
the course. • 
Among the following specialized electives are Prof. C. Williams' Topics In Metaphysics (PHIL 425) which will explore several selected metaphysical issues in-depth. Williams is a visiting professor from England. 
Seminar on Athiesm (PHIL 428) will be for advance students who wish to explore this issue. Prof. F. Crosson will conduct the seminar. 
Seminar on Justice (PHIL 430), to be conducted by Prof. C. Delaney, will examine in-depth John Rawls book, Theory of Jus­tice. 
Philosophy, Biology, and Medi­cine (PHIL485) will be a course for advanced students taught by Prof. 
E. Manier. The philosophical dimensions of questions in the interface of biology and medicine will be explored. 
PHYSICS is bringing back Bio­Medical Physics II (PHYS 322); the theory and use of probabilistic and statistical methods in physical pro­blems with examples drawn from physics, biology, chemistry and physiology. The course instructor will be Prof. G. Jones. 
PSYCHOLOGY is offering three new courses: Psychology of Agres­sion (PSY 370), which will be taught by Prof. R. Sebastian; Analytic Theories (PSY 456). to be taught by Prof. C. Tagason, and Prof. M. Bartlett's new course Introduction to Inten·iewing Skills (PSY 456A). 
SOCIOLOGY is adding a total of 
eight courses to its curriculum: 
Social Issues (SOC 114) will study the current problems af­fecting our lives today. The range of issues will go from sexual and marital problems to business,ra­cial, poverty and medical issues in America. W. Carlton and J. Blocher will each conduct a section. 
Principles of Sociology (SOC 200), to be taught by Prof. F. DaSilva, will be an invitation to sociology through the analysis of the social construction of reality; the organizing principles and pat­terns of social life. 
Current Issues: Medicine and Technology (SOC 346) will empha­size the social aspects of bio­medical advances, the problems and benefits of technology as they effect the practice of medicine. Carlton will also be teaching this. 
Family Development (SOC 378) will cover changes in families from their formation when couples mar­ry until their dissolution at the death of one of the spouses. Joan Aldous will be instructor for the course, which requires The Family (SOC 377) as a pre-requisite. 
Class, Politics, and Power in American Society (SOC 384) will be taught by J. D. Lewis. It will study classical stratification theorists, comparative stratification systems, processes of social mobil­ity, political economy and the subjugated strata in American society, especially blacks and wo­men. 
Current Issues: Internship Se­minar (SOC 446) will be limited exclusively to Sociology majors. 
r··············· 
!_ 

We Service What We Sell 
and what others sell too! 
Complete service facili­
ties for bicycles, scuba 
gear & skis. Sportsaafts 
in the sports center. 
51400 U.S. 31 North. 
Telephone: 272-5300. 
SPQrt$crafts 
Depending on individual career plans, students will be placed in appropriate public agencies with the help of the Urban Studies Institute. This work-experience will form a part of the seminar discussions under the direction of Prof. D. N. Barrett. The Course will also be a review of the many sociological studies of occupational careers. 
Current Issues: Family Problem Solving (SOC 446) will provide an in-depth analysis of the processes which families use to solve the problems they face. Among _the questions asked will be: How do families compare with other social units in terms of problem solving resources?: What kinds of pro­blems do families confront?, and How can problem solving perfor­mance be evaluated? D. Klien will be the course instructor. 
Current Issues: European Fam­ily (SOC 446) w,ill be a survey of changes and continuities in family functioning in countries of western Europe. Changing family roles of husbands and wives will be covered as well as mate selection patterns and power relationships. W. Dumon will teach this course which also requires The Family as a pre-requisite. 
THEOLOGY will be contributing nine new courses to the spring schedule: 
Inquiries in the History of Theo­logy (THEO 216) will tackle a selection of 20 topics in the development of Christian life and thought: classical topics chal­lenging contemporary topics, and other topics requested by students. 
Assoc. Prof. J. Laporte will conduct the course. 
The Catholic Vision (THEO 239), to be taught by Assoc. Prof. E. O'Connor, will be an attempt to help students get an intelligent view of the charcteristic features of Catholocism by examining the great ideas which define it and con­trasting them with some of the other major religious and anti-reli­gious options of the modern world. 
Celebrating Life: The Catholic Way (THEO 246) will investigate the intense renewal of Roman Catholic ritual life in the past 15 years. Prof. Ryan will teach the course. 
Modem Spirituality (THEO 255) will examine the traditional con­cepts of spirituality, integrated with the findings of modern psy­chology. Fr. Holtz will attempt to place in perspective the notions of asceticism.discipline, penance, sin, faith and prayer. Students wishing to take this course must call Fr. Holtz (ext. 7072) before pre-regis­tration. 
From Ashes to Easter (THEO 
348) will highlight the baptismal symbols as they are used in the Catholic catechumenate. In order to stress their intellectual and emotional apprehension the course will require, among other things, ascetical practices and partici­pation in a Holy Week retreat. Students who are interested in this course must call Prof. W. Storey (ext. 6208) before pre-registration. 

Phenomenology of Rellglous Ex­perience (THEO 357) will acquaint the individual brought up in our Western culture with the varieties of religious experience. Shaman­ism and mysticism will lay a base for Assoc. Prof. M. Kelsey's dis­cussion of modern experiences. 
Prehistoric and Primitive Reli­gion (THEO 358) will be an introduction to systems of religious meaning and practice among non­civilized cultures. Topics to be covered by Asst. Prof. N. Girardot will include myth and ritual, reli­gious symbolism, concepts of di­vinity, magic, and shamanism. 
Religion and Homan Develop­ment(THEO 365) will be taught by Asst. Prof. L. Jancoski. The course will focus on the distinguishing behavioral and psychological characteristics of progressive stages in human development and the nature of those experiences. 
Church and Social Justice (SOC 

374) r'ill study the Catholic Church as an institution and transnational actor, and its historical responses to issues of social justice. Students will be challenged by Fr. D. McNeill to develop a critical under­standing of the social and pastoral ministry of persons and groups in the Church currently responding to problems of national and global justice. Students wishing to take this course must first contact McNeill (G20-Library) before pre· registration. 
Buried alive; marks Houdini 

lndianapoUs AP -Radio station owner Bill Shirk returned from the grave Sunday, exactly 50 years to the hour after the death of legend· ary escape artist Harry Houdini. 
Shirk. 31. the owner of radio station WXLW, spent three days in a buried coffin to commemorate Houdini's death and to raise monev for the Marion County Association for Retarded Citizens: 
The event raised more than 

$5,000, Shirk said. adding that he 
plans future escape attemptc; sucha 
s being burned alive and . freeing 
himself from a straight jacket 
while dangling from a helicopter. 

Cultural Arts Commission· presents 
The National Theatre Company production of 
CHARLIE & CO. 
-a new musical based upon the life and times of Charles Chaplin ' 
Monday, November 1 8pm O'laughlin Auditorium $3 general admission $2 students Tickets available at SU ticket office or at. the door. 
-~------~------------------------------~ 

------------------------------------------------------r-----------------~------~ 
10 the observer Monda November 1, 1976 

The Nazz was the site of a musical mumber Saturday night, 
I.Jcqu:·~ Briel is Alive adn Living. Oveall reaction to the play was good. 
Missing daVinci believed hidden by fellow artist 
FLORENCE. Italy · Travers Newton has been spending his days rapping on a wall with his bare fist, hut he is confident his sore knuckles and some sophisticated sonar equipment will eventually locate a lost masterpiece by Leo­nardo da Vinci. 
Newton is part of. an American team which launched the search 10 days ago in the great council hall of the Florence municipal palace. 
Members of the team have already discovered that there is a brick wall behind a fresco by Giorgio Vasari, and they believe the wall was put up by the 16th century painter out of respect for a fellow artist whose work he dared not destroy. A small inscription in Vasari's painting· "Cerca, Trova" or seek and you will find · is a piece of "Renaissance humor" that helps convince them they are looking in the right spot for Leonardo's "Battle of Angiari." 
Leonardo began the work in JSOS under contract with the Republic of Florence but never finished it. Records of the time indicate the fragment was admired as one of his most important paintings and pre­served for up to SO years, despite a change in politics that destroyed the republic it glorified. 
Vasari was .given the job of remodeling the hall in 1S63 and the leonardo disappeared, either de­stroyed or preserved intact behind a special wall. 
.. J' d like to belie-ve the latter." savs Newton. 26. an art restoration expert from Los Angeles. , His knuckle rapping is to too~_ for hollow spaces and slaws in the Vasari. which must be treated to preserve it from harm during the search. 
Another believer is Prof. Carlo Pedretti. an art historian from the Universitv of California at Los Angeles ·and head of the search team. 
He notes that Vasari on several occasions built brick walls to pro­tect paintings he covered with his own works. 
Pedretti said there are also theorie:; that Leonardo's work died a natural death when the colors failed to hold because he was experimenting with a new oil-based technique rather than water color. 
Sign-ups for bus to Eagles concert 
The Student Union ticket office is still accepting sign-ups for the November 11 bus trip to Chicago Stadium for the Eagles concert. For further information call the Student Union at 77S7. 
Whatever the fate of the Leo­nardo, Pedretti promised at the ceremonies launching the search· on Oct. 21 that the techniques being used will show ''with certain­ty whether Vasari destroyed the painting of Leonardo or not." 
-Prof. John Asmus, a physicist from the University of California at San Diego, developed the sonar system being used as a non­destructive method of looking be­hind one painting to find another. 
Sound ~aves .reflected through the wall of the search area allow the experts to determine the materials in all its lavers. 
Newton says it would be simpler and less costly to cut a hole in the Vasari, which could be replaced later, and look behind it. 
"But no one is abJe·or willing to give us permission to do this," he said. 
The sonar device is the safest method available to look for the Leonardo without jeopardizing the Vasari painting, but it is going ~o take time and money. Newton ts afraid of running out of both. 
Shipping clerk charged with two ·murders in shooting spree 
MECHANIOVILLE, N.Y. · A 
shipping clerk was charged with 
two counts of second degree mur­
der yesterday after a police officer 
and a bar patron were killed and 
nine other persons wounded by 
gunfire sprayed from an apartment 
building here, police report. 
Police said Kenyon W. Pruyn, 
32, who police said was employed 
at a plant in nearby Latham, N.Y., 
was taken into custody late Satur­
day when he emerged from the 
burning apartment building. 
Officers said he fired more than 
300 rounds during the shoot-out, 
which lasted nearly two hours. 
Pruyn allegedly fired out of the 
window of his third floor apart· 
ment, located near the police 
station on Main Street in this town 
of about 6,200 persons in central 
New York State. The alleged 
gunman fired into the roadway and 
into a tavern across the street, 
where most of the wounded were 
seated. 
Police said nine weapons · rifles 
and shotguns · were found in the 
apartment. Pruyn's wife and two 
daughters were not at home at the 
time. 
About SO police officers, includ­
ing state police, helped to cordon 
off the area during the shooting 
spree. Police returned fire sporad­
ically, unable to get a clear line of 
fire. 
The alleged gunman left the 
building after a fire started. Police 
believe it may have been caused by 
gunfire igniting a gas stove in 
Pruyn's apartment. 
Police said that Pruyn. a former 
marine, had been having family 
problems Friday and had been 
drinking. Officers also said he had 
been stopped for a speeding viola· 
tion by local police earlier Satur-
Ethnic enrollment at same level 
Ethnic minority student enroll­ment at the University this semes­ter continued at the same level as in previous years with the additon of 106 students, one Jess than last year's record of 107 new students. The 106 students represent six per cent of the new members of the student body. 
The new students include SO Spanish Americans, 34 blacks and 10 Oriental Americans. Twelve of the students transferred from other schools while 94 are entering Notre Dame as freshmen. 
day. 
When Pruyn emerged from the building, 21-year-old, part-time of-fleer Paul Luther, a bachelor, lay dead at the entrance to the tavern, Joyce's Log Cabin. 
James Marsh, SO, who was wounded while in the bar, died a short time later at an area hospital. 
Luther, a part-time officer since June, had taken an exam earlier in the day in hopes of becoming a full-time policeman. 
Six of the nine wounded, includ­ing police officer John L. Gonnelly, 3S, were in satisfactory condition at area hospitals Sunday. The other 
three were in fair condition. 
Gonnelly and Luther were the first officers at the scene, respond­ing to ~he sound of gunfire and the tavern s burglar alarm. 
The two officers arrived in 
separate police vehicles and appar· ently were hit almost immediately after arriving at the tavern. 
Police said that Pruyn later moved from the front to the back of his apartment in the Kennedy Gardens Apartments, firing to keep police officers from moving. in on 
him. 
The man was taken in a State Police car to the nearby Malta barracks and then to Saratoga Hospital for treatment of facial cuts, apparently caused by flying 
glass. 

r----------......,F,..A~S-=T=-------1 
· 
TYPEWRITER J
REPAIR 
F;J:p=w•l 
. 2915 M1shawa~ Ave: 

Special Holy Day Mass I
r----------------~
I ALL SAINTS LITURGY II 5:00pm I I Monday, November 1st I
I I
Sacred Heart Church 
I Celebrant : Rev. Michael Glockner, c.s.c.l 
1 There will also be an All Saints Mass in I1 Sacred Heart church at 11 :30 a.m. on II Monday._ Check hall bulletin boards for times 
~~--~----------1 
~tiS-11~t 
~·~,~
US 31 NORTH .A . AN EQUAL SO. BEND IND · -~: ~ "i' OPPORTUNITY ....-EMPLOYER 
The Boar's Head is auditioning 1 &2 piece groups for our cocktail lounge hours of 
entertainment run 8:00 pm to 1:OOam Tues thru Sat (soft rock & guitar & yocal) Apply in person for appt. between 2-4 pm Mon thru Fri Ask for Jim Painter-manager 
When the football's over, the fun keeps right on going in Atlanta's ne..v~ . 
·. est, neatest, most spectacular shCMJ: The World of Sid & Marty Krafft. It's a 3 to 4 hour entertainment adventure of mimes, music, non-stop fun. Eat, laugh, live it up; it's all indoors, close to the game, in Ornni International, downtown. And with this ad, it's all )QUTS this weekend, for $1 off the regular $5.75 ticket. We're open from 11 AM. -10 PM., so get )QUr ticket at our Ornni International box office or call 681:_29(X). And 
on. When )Qu're in Atlanta, come see the World. 
When ln'Atlanta, See The World For$1 Off. 
" 

~~~~~~~~----~~~=~~-----­
leers split weekend series with MSU 
[Continued from page 12) 
rally was rudely interrupted when 
Spartan forward Joe Campbell 
stole the puck from Don Fairholm 
in the corner of the Irish zone, 
skated to the crease and shoveled 
the puck past Moher for an 
unassisted and shorthanded goal 
with a 3-2 State lead. 
From that point on, it was all 
Irish. Seemingly insulted by 
Campbell's affrontery, Moher per­
formed brilliantly for the remainder 
of the game with solid support from 
his defensemen. But the most 
inspired play came from the offen­
se as they combined relentless fore 
checking and slick skating and stick 
handling to batter the hapless 
Versical for five more goals. 
Walsh's second goal on a slaps­
shot from the point that somehow 
found its way through a maze of 
sticks and legs to the net, made it 
3-3. Sophomore Steve Schneider 
scored the go-ahead tally on 
assists from Ray Johnwon and Paul 
clark to close out the second period. 
Don Fairholm kept the surge going 
into the final frame when he took a 
beautiful pass from brother Terry, 
danced around two Spartan de­
fenders and fired a 15-foot wrist 
shot that beat Versical high to the 
left. At 12:42 Paul Clark made it 
6-3, rifling home a slapshot . And 
the Duke added insult to injury 
with this thrid goal of the night 
hammering a slow rolling puck 
from in front of the net for the Irish 
co-captain's fifth career hat trick. 
The Irish not only outplayed Michigan State in the last two periods but also managed to stay a out of trouble, being penalized only twice after the sinful first period. "I felt that our kids improved period by period," commented Coach Smith after the game. "We started to move the puck better and capitalize on opportunities as the game wore on." Smith was also encouraged by the performances of his freshmen, who demonstrated a lot of maturity in their first collegi­ate contest. But he was neverthe­less cautious about the opening victory. "One game doesn't make a weekend," he warned. 
Indeed. 
The following night found Clark Hamilton back in the lineup and John Peterson making his initial start in the nets. Again the game got off to a slow start, but this time it was the Irish who scored first when freshman Greg Meredith tipped a Brownschidle slapshot past Versical to give the Irish the lead at 15:36 mark. 
Two short minutes later, how­
ever, Spartan forward Russ Welch 
capitalized on a breakdown in the 
Notre Dame defense when he took 
a pass from Jeff Brubaker at the 
ND blueline, skated unmolested on John Peterson and flipped a wrist shot past to make it 1-1. The Spartans took the lead with 4 seconds left in the epriod when Jeff Addley fired a 20-foot slapper past the screened Peterson. 
The Irish came out flaming in the second period, setting the house on fire with four goals in as many to take a S-2 lead. Terry Fairholm opened the floodgates with 23 seconds gone, taking Kevin Nu­gent's pass in front of Versical and slipping it past his gloveside into the net. Donny Fairholm .followed his brother's suit 43 seconds later with his first of two goals, faking Versical out of position and lifting backhander into the -cords. Ted W eltzin took a turn igniting the red light after Meredith battled the puck from the Spartans and fed his fellow freshman in front of the goal. The roar of the crowd for Weltzin's score was still echoing in the far reaches of the dome when Donny Fairholm took the puck at his own blue line, skated in between, around and past the MSU defense and shoved a backhander past the shell-shocked Versical for a 5-2 lead. 
The frustrated Spartans reacted to the Notre Dame assault with a physical attack of their own. The Irish responded in kind and both teams were slapped with five minor penalties in the period. It was while Roger Bourque was serving time in the box that Michigan State scored their tally of the period, a Kevin Coughlin wrister over a prone Peterson, who had just stopped three point-blank shots but was unable to reach the puck before the Spartan left wing. 
Despite that goal, however, the 3,826 Irish partisans buoyed by the awesome offensive surge they had witnessed earlier, seemed to feel that the 5-3 lead would be enough 'to insure a victory and sweep for the obviously superior Irish. But no one told Michigan State. 
The high sticks and elbows continued to fly in the third period. At one point, Notre Dame was forced to play at a two-man disadvantage when both Duke Walsh and Don Jackson were whistled off for infractions. Brown­schidle, Don Fairholm and Dick How killed the penalties brilliantly, but the Irish had been forced to go on the defensive and as a result had lost their momentum. "Those pen­alties really hurt," said Smith later. "They broke all our contin­uity and ruined the flow of the game." 
Not for State, however. Russ Welch made it 5-4 when the Irish were unable to control the puck in their own zone. Moments later, with both teams two men short due to penalties, Ted Huesing floated a soft backhander over Peterson' Brian Walsh [left] scored three goals Friday and the WCHA season opener last weekend. [PhotosDonny Fairholm [right] had four for the series as by Kevin Walsh] the Irish split with Michigan .State at the ACC in 

shoulder to knot the score at 5 with 
as many minutes left in the gart:Je. 
It was at this point that it seemed that neither team would win. The Irish offensive could not get un­tracked all period while the Spartan skaters had been having trouble all weekend, the majority of their goals coming on defensive collap­ses bv the Irish. 
So ·it was only appropriate that the winning score should come on such a breakdown. And it did,when MSU forwards Coughlin and Joe Johnson came in on lone defender Jack Brownschidle. Brownschidle dio what he was supposed to, staggering the two invaders and going after the man with the pu~k in order to force the play. Coughn passed to Johnson and Peterson was ready, but Johnson's weak roller crawled between his legs for the winning score at 16:31. The verdict was cemented at 18:57 when a Walsh pass from the corner of his own zone hit the surprised Peterson in the leg and bounced into the net, emptying the stands and making the final 7-5. 
It was, simply and fairly, poor display by the Irish. It wouldn't here been so bad if they hadn't been so good the night before. "We're extremely disappointed, to say the least,'' said Smith after the game. "The thing that hurts the most is that when you look back you see all their goals were scored against our veterans." 
Donny Fairholm played superbly both nights, offensively (four goals and an assist) as well as defensive­ly. It is in individual performances like Fairholm's as well as in the solid play of his freshman new­comers that Smith can find encour­agement. 
Anyone who saw both games can't -help but believe that the real comes a bad memory soon forgot­Irish was the team that won so ten, because that is all it deserves 

convincingly Friday night. It will to be. be up to Coach Smith as well as The Irish travel to Denver this his players to make sure that weekend for a pair of games with 
Saturday night's performance be­the DU Pioneers. 
NFL Roundup Bears claw Vikings 
Chicago AP -Walter Payton's 39-vard touchdown run in the first 
quarter and a couple of Breaks which led to another touchdown inthc 
final period gave the Chicago Bears a 14-13 triumph Sunday over the 
Minnesota Vikings. who were the last unbeaten team in the National 
Football League. 
With the Bears leading 7-6 after Fred Cox had booted a pair of 
24-yard field goals for the Vikings. Nate Wright was called for pass 
interference which gave the Bears the ball on the Viking three-yard 
line. Johnny Musso then fumbled and recovered the ball in the end 
zone for what proved to be a winninP touchclown_ 
Cards trump 49'ers 
St. wuis AP-Veteran Jim Bakken kicked a 21-yard field goal with 
8:18. left in overtime, lifting the St. Louis Cardinals to a 2-3-20 victory over the San Francisco 49ers in a National Football League Sunday. 
Bakken· s kick climaxed a 40-yard march to the to the 49ers three-yard line following a fumble by San Francisco's Anthony Leonard on a St. Louis punt. 
Cowboys lasso Redskins 
Washington AP -Roger Staubach, despite an injured hand, plunged over from the one and Doug Dennison scored from the three Sunday as the Dallas defense virtually closed down the Washington Redskins 20-7 and maintained undisputed leadership of the National Football Conference East Division. 
Staubach showed no signs of the injured pinkie on his throwing hand as he completed 13 of 23 passes for 152 yards. Included were six of I 0 completions from the shotgun formation on third-and-long situtations which produced five first downs. 
Bengals bomb Browns 
Cincinnati AP -Ken Anderson hit Isaac Curtis with a 69-yard touchdown pass and fullback Boobie Clark scored twice to trigger a revived Cincinnati running game, propelling the Bcngals to a 21-o National Football League victory over the Cleveland Browns Sundav. 
Notices Due to the time change, the Grey­hound bus to Chicago will now leave the Main Circle at 5 :45 every Friday. Call Tom at 8338 for seat reserva­tions and further info. Angel Flight Meeting: 1 Nov. 76. 6:30p.m. 109 Walsh I'll type papers for you. Call 4565.  For Rent RENT MY UPSTAIRS. $40 PER MONTH. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL 233-1329. 3-room apL Everything furnished Private bath. $100 per mo. Call 288-9533. Lost & Found  Classified Ads PLEASE!!! 1 desperately need one Alabama tix. Call Dave 1010. Notre Dame 35 Alabama 0. Tom Clements, Wayne Bullock & Greg Collins need many Alabama GA tix. Call 3300 or 3315.  1 Miami ticket and 1 GA Barna. Call 1060. Need 2 or 4 Alabama tickets. Call Claire 6833. Will pay top dollar for 2 Alabama GA lix Call 8401. Need ONE tickets to Miami (lame. Call Patty, 4-4904.  Chevy-RALLY WHEELS used 1 season by conservative Accountinn major. Terry 288 2825. Aloe cosmet•cs. A wide variety of products 4565. For Sale­H1tach1 rece,ver BSR turntable $200. 233 2608  
Tickets for the November 11 Chi· cago Stadium concert with The Eagles, featuring Joe W a Ish, and John David Soutler are now on sale at the River City Review Ticket Outlets: Just for the Record (lOO Center) and Boogie Records (Col­lege Square). Accurate, fast typing_ Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. Hours: 8 AM to 8 PM. Experienced guitarist to teach be­ginners. Call Jamie in Lyons 7966. WILL DO TYPING: THEMES, MANUSCRIPTS. CALL 287-5162. Pandora's Books: has all used books on sale at one half oft the regular price. These new books on sale for 25 percent off: Blind Ambition, Final Days, All the President's Men, Jimmy, I'll Never Lie fo You, WhyNot the Best. MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune Basement. M-F 11:15-12:15. Anyone interested in startinQ an Asian-American club call Crarg at 8693.  Lost-to the graduate Business stu­dent who picked up the hitcher to the Library Thurs. night. I left my calculator in your car. (S R-50A} Please return. Call 233-4222. Lost: Nickies parking lot "borrow­ers" of gym bag and back pack, please return to 717 SL Louis Blvd. 233-3743. To the bstd. who stole Calif. license plate 565 JMV I want it back! Call 1747­Lost: Last seen on cafeteria shelves -blue nylon pack containing 5 books. Please call Pete 8337. Wanted Foxy SMC chick needs 2 Chicago tix for herself and foxy friend from out of town. Decent padded or center bleacher. Call Mar 4397.  Need 5 Barna tickets. Please have pity! Call Lisa 1343. Need 2 Alabama tickets. Call Martha at 1715 or 2116. Need 4 GA tickets for Alabama football game. Have unlimited funds. Call Bob 1461. Addressers wanted immediately! Work at home--no experience nec­essary--excellent pay. Write Ameri­can Service, Suite 132, Minne­apolis, Mn. 55426. Need 2 or 4 Alabama tickets. Call Peggy 4-4381. Need Alabama tickets. Will pay good price. Call Martha 4819. Need 2 GA Alabama tickets. Need not be together. Call 289-1056. Need 1 GA Barna ticket. Tony 288-5675. 3 GA tix needed for Alabama game. Call Bob 255-8660.  DES PERA TELY NEED · GA and student Ball'a tickets. Call 1487. Wanted: riders to Peoria Ill Nov_ 12. Call 1678. Help' If I don't find another ticket I'm noin(l to have to go to the Barna game Fredless! Ginger 4829 Need Alabama tickets somethin' fierce. Call Martha at 4819. Desperately need 3 GA Alabama tickets for parents & a priest. Call Stephanie 1364. For Sale For Sale: set or 8 long-stemmed Coors glasses. Nice. Make offer. 1478. MEXICAN BELTS: finest leather belts available. Only S10.00. Call BIG MONEY MURF anytime at 234-8858. Book Shop. Used books. Students Parc.dise. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7 _ Ralph Casperson Books, 1303 Buchanan Road. Niles, Mich. 683-2888-.  Personals Yes, Spacey Rose, that personal Friday was for you. You'd better believe il 1 JBM Wouldn't you love to be as lucky as a raP Cracker.; Oh boy! crackers is back' Unlike Mary Jo K., famous death competition resurfaces. Come root for you favontes on Thursday in F-line_ All invited! The Contestants P.S. I need corn! Keith, Doug and Don. Thanks for the honor. Too bad nobody elde knows about my eligibility! October's Bachelorette  

, 
12 the observer Monday, November 1, 1976 
Irish barely squeak by Navy 27-21 
l 
I J 
... 
by Fred Herbst Sports Editor 

ClEVELAND-It's hard to believe, but Navy came close to beating Notre Dame Saturday. In fact. they came within a fingertip of pulling off what would have been one of the most shocking upsets of the season before dropping a 27-21 decision to the Irish. 
The fingertip belonged to Irish freshman Dave Waymer who with 
4:47 remaining in the contest and Notre Dame desperately clinging to a six point lead, made a diving fingertip deflection of a Navy pass at the Irish two-yard line to prevent a Middie touchdown and secure the Notre Dame win. 
After driving his team 64 yards to the Notre Dame 16. Navy quarterback Bob Leszczynski fired a fourth-and-two pass toward split end Steve Scott that could have given the Midshipmen a victory if it weren't for Waymer's play. 
"That was a touchdown," Navy Coach George Welsh said. "I thought we had a touchdown. Waymer deflected it with a finger­tip, a heckuva play." 
"I just let him (Scott) drift across the middle," Waymer explained," "and when I saw the ball coming I knew I had to dive." 
Waymer's effort was certainly the key play in staving off the upset-minded Middies, but it didn't finish them. Navy got the ball back with I:SO remaining at their 16. With Leszczynski throw­ing ten times, the Middies marched to the Irish 38 before Luther Bradley intercepted a desperation toss in the endzone as the game ended. 
"I don't want to detract from Navy whatsoever," Notre Dame mentor Dan Devine said. "but we didn't play our best game either offensively or defensively. We were ripe to be upset and I'm proud of the team that we weren't. I'm just very glad to be out of here with our lives." 
Despite allowing 21 points, the Irish defense did establish a new school record for most consecutive quarters without allowing a touch­down by shutting out the Middies in the first quarter. The first quarter ended with Notre Dame ahead 3-0 a 47-yard Dave Reeve field goal and the Irish completting their 21st consecutive quarter with­out allowing a touchdown. 
But Notre Dame only enjoyed their new record for 1 :58 as Leszczynski victimized Jim Browner on a 17-yard scoring pass to Dave King as Navy took a 7-3 lead. On their next series, a fake punt backfired on the Irish, with Navy getting the ball on the Notre Dame 45. Leszczynski then took his team to the Irish one where Larry Klawinski powered his way into the endzone to give the Midshipmen a 14-3 advantage with 
II :36 remaining in the half. 
Notre Dame got back into the game on their next possession as Rick Slager combined with Dan Kelleher on a 58-yard scoring strike. After an exchange of punts, the Irish marched 60 yards behind the passing of Slager and the running of Steve Orsini for their second touchdown with AI Hunter covering the final five yards to take the lead 17-14 with 2:53 remaining in the quarter. 
Five seconds later Ted Burg­meier recovered a Navy fumble at the Middic 13. Following a penalty and a 12-yard loss, Slager found Hunter free on the sideline for a 28-yard touchdown pass. The play gave Notre Dame a 24-14lead with two minutes to go in the half. 
The Irish had another chance to score in the first half as a pass interference call put them on the Navy two-yard line with 47 seconds remaining. But a dropped pass in the endzone cost Notre Dame another score as time ran out. 
In the first half the Irish could manage only 24 yards rushing while gaining 184 yards passing. Sla~er threw 21 times in the half, Dan Kelleher [left] had a great day with one touchdown and receptions and ~teve Orsini [right] rushe~ for 78 yards to help lead 

completing 11. Neither team scored in the third quarter as the Notre Dame defense settled down and the offense used the running of Steve Orsini to control the ball between the twenties. Navy closed the gap to three with  make the score 27-21 with 11:49 on the clock. From that point on, it was simply a battle between Leszczynski and the Notre Dame defense. Lesczcynski connected on 21 of 46 attempts for 294 yards. King tied a Navy record by being on the  attempts for 241 yards. Dan Kelleher enjoyed his best day of the season hauling in seven of Slager's tosses for 162 yards, including a 58-yard scoring pass and a brilliant diving catch to set up another score.  Terry Eurick responded with 60 yards in the second half as the Irish tried to hold the ball and use the clock. "It was a great day for me." he said. ''All I was asking for was a chance to play, and that's what I got."  
13:34 to play in thegame,as Reggie Thompson hulled into the endzone to cap an 82-yard drive. Dave Reeve answered for the Irish with a 24-yard field goal to  receiving end of ten of those completions for 179 yards. For the afternoon. the Middies only man­aged 55 yards rushing. Slager hit on 12 of 26 pass  AI Hunter and Orsini led the Irish ground attack with 78 and 75 yards respectively. Orsini, who was pressed into action due to injuries to Jerome Heavens and  The Irish are now 6-1 on the campaign, having won their last six in-a-row. They will travel to Atlanta to face Georgia Tech this Saturday.  

Irish blades split with Michigan State 
preseason poll. The Irish may have hestitated in stopped all twelve shots he faced. 
by Dave O'Keefe But Saturday night's loss put a scoring but they wasted no time in Michigan State opened the scar-Sports Writer quick stop to that. The same team piling up penalties. Terry Fairholm ing in the second period when right 
that had demonstrated great ability went to the box first with less than wing Jim Johnson beat Moher over 
The Notre Dame hockey team and tremendous poise the night a minute gone in the season. In all the left shoulder. But the Irish 
split their season-opening series before suddenly came apart, con-the Irish were hit with ten minutes came right back 32 seconds later 
with Michigan State this weekend, tributing to their own defeat with in penalties in the first period while when Donny Fairholm scored the 
. defensive and mental mistakes that the Spartans logged eight. first Irish goal of the season with
wmning the opener 7-3 and losing
the following night by a score of finally caught up with them in the The only scoring of the period assists from Kevin Nugent and . . final period. All in all it was the came at the 13:17 mark when Terry Fairholm.
75 kind of weekend that leaves Michigan State defenseman Pat Duke Walsh tied the score withThe Irish were as thrilling and
encouraging in victory as they were coaches shaking their heads in Betterly slipped a one-handed 7:48 gone, taking a pass from Allen 
. amazement. backhander past Lenny Moher Karsnia and flipping a quick back­
dtsappointing in defeat. Friday h
night's win without the services of Friday night's game got off to a while carrying Jack Brownschidle ander past Versical for his first Geoff Collier, Dan Byers and sluggish start. ''It looked like it was and Dick Howe on his back. It was goal of the night. The Irish seemed last-minute scratch Clark Hamilton going to be a long, tough night," the only shot of a total of twenty to ready to surge ahead moments · II f commented coach Lefty Smith elude the busy Moher during the when Betterly was sent to the 
gave nse to a sorts o optimistic
conjecture about the potentials of later. "We played tight that first opening period. The Irish man-penalty box for slashing, but the the icers ranked third in the ~er~~dt d ~~.~ere stiff and we ~ged one lood flurry. against [Continued on page 11] ...........·.·················-~-~!-•.~.S......~}?.:............ ................~~:!an goa te Da~e Verstcal, who
hip Spina ···-·········································-·.-.-.-..:-:-:-=-:·:·:·=·=·=·:·:-:-:-:-:::::-=-=·=·=·=·=-=·=·=·=-=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=====:====================:.>:::==·====x=:::::=:.:=============================::::=======:::::=:=:::::::::::=:::::::=:=:::::::::::::::~===:::r.::::============:
C 
On the Shore of Lake Erie 
·-~·················-·..·.·~·~··.·~---..-.-..-...-.-.-.-.-.-..-......-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-...-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-----------·---·-----------H1·gh and lns,·de
'•-.'•'•'•'•'•'•'•'•'.,'•"''•~'•'•'=•·•=•:o:•:•:•:O:o:.:.:•:O:•:o:o:o:.:o:O:o:O:o!•!•!o:o!o!•!o!o!o!o!o!o!o!•!•!o~o:!•!•!:!•!•!•:•:~:•!•!•!•!•!.!:;•::;O:•"!•:i'-'•!•!•Z•!•!•!-):0!•!•!•!•!>!•!•!•!•!•'•!•:0'•'•'•'•'-:•'''•''''•'>'>'o'o'•'•'•'•'•'•""'•'•'•'•-----.;.:;.~...-......................................• ..•.•.•••• .. •."•... ..........
--...... J4'--..·~--~-..................•.•.•.. , 
Cleveland The Fighting Irish took on the supposedly inept Middies of the first quarter became the 21st consecutive wttnout ail owing a TD. And 
Naval Academy Saturday in dying Cleveland's dark, dreary, and decrepit perhaps it was better for all concerned to get the streak over with and 
Municipal Stadium. The results left Dan Devine saying he was ''glad to return to merely playing the game without any extra pressure of trying for 
get out of here with our lives''. There is no exaggeration in those words. a record. But when it rains, it pours, and the defense as a whole seemed 
The awesome Irish defense returned to earth after the first (and to crack under the sometimes spectacular passing of Navy's Bob 
(record-setting) quarter and barely held on for a 27-21 win as Luther Leszczynski. 
Bradley intercepted a Navy pass in his own endzone with no time left. This is not to undermine a fine Navy performance. The Middies, who 
One must first wonder why the Irish agreed to play in a dump like had lost to Michigan 70-14 and Pittsburgh 45-0 had "our best game ofthe 
Cleveland's stadium. It is reported that each school received $200,000 for year, no doubt about it" according to coach George Welsh. Leszczynski 
appearing in this first major college football game there in 24 years. went 21 for 45 with 294 yards and receiver Dave King equaled team 
Perhaps that is incentive enough to try it once, but 1 think the results may records with 10 catches for 179 yards. Navy nearly outgained the Irish in preclude any such ~ppearance in the near future. With due apologies to overall yardage (349-384) and had more first downs and more plays, Clevelanders, the ctty leaders and some organizers ought to be ashamed Many felt, and I would agree, that there were two teams of equal prowess 1 of the environment which they provided. Stadium authorites forced both on that ~eld last Satur~ay . teams to use the tiny baseball locker room facilities for their respective .. ~he I.~tsh were not wtthout great perfon_nances m the ~ear loss. ~an entourages. The field was in terrible condition--it is amazing that Pete Ktller Kelleher had the be~t gam~ of hts career, catchmg seven Rtck Rozelle allows the pro ~rowns to perform in such shoddy surroundings. Slag~~ tosses for 162 yards, mcludmg a, specta~u~ar 58 yard T~ .. and Mayor Ralph Perk pro~tded both head coaches with a key to the city prior recetvmg ~he pl_ayer ofthe game award. Ste~e Orsmt ~eplaced the t~Jured to the game. I wouldn t be surprised if both coaches tossed the keys into Terry Eurtck wtth a c?mm~ndable 75 yards m 16 car:te~. Joe Resttc had Lake Erie before they gladly left for home. another fine day puntmg wtth a 45.2 yard average whtch mcluded a terrific 
one handed save of a high center snap. This is not being offered as any excuse for our near defeat, only as a But overall, the Irish played what may have been their worst game since protest to the treatment received by both squads. One would think that if the Pitt debacle. In his post-game interview, Devine understated when he Cleveland hoped to sign such major attractions on a regular basis that the said "we didn't play our best game offensively or defensively". 
city fathers would make their best efforts to bring comfort to an optimum Hopefully this trend can be arrested before next week. Even with a 6-1 level. I for one suggest that the Irish and Middie athletic departments record, the Irish don't have a bowl bid secured yet. Any future look elsewhere in the future for a major market to hold such games. perfomances like Saturday's against the superior teams remaining on our 
Getting to the game itself, one has to wonder what happened to the schedule may find the varsity enjoying New Year's at home for the second team which demolished Oregon just two short weeks ago. The Irish have straight year. now on two consecutive weeks been saved from defeat only by defensive ************* heroics of Jimmie Browner (key interception at SC), Dave Waymer (key Congratulation's to John Pont of Northwestern for going after a win pass deflection Saturday) and the aforementioned Luther Bradley instead of a tie in Iowa City Saturday. Seriously! Unfortunately for him, it interception. True, the Irish D did set an amazing record when Navy's failed and the Pussycats have now lost 14 in a row. 




