
No gynecologists needed 
Infirmary little changed since co-education 
NO Cheerleaders "Rockette" to number two spot In poll. 

by Maggie Waltman One of the major consideration Dame, only Notre Dame does not Starr Reporter of the student health service was have at least a part-time the need for a gynecologist. gynecologist. Four of the five Although Coeducation at Notre However, Sr. Dolores said hiring a other schools have some type of \ Dame has caused innumerable gynecologist, "hasn't seemed service to handle, not only •
' changes in the university struc­necessary." womens' illnesses, but also con-.1 ture, the student health service "We haven't really had many traception, venereal disease, rape
"hasn't changed drastically," request for a gynecologst here. We and pregnancy. according to Sr. Miriam Dolores, have more calls for a bone doctor These are not huge state schools administrator of the infirmary because of the number of injuries supported by the tax-payers. They facility. in the intramural sports do not necessarily have liberal 
Sr. Dolores said that in 1971, program," Sr. Dolores noted.ln the attitudes towards various when Notre Dame decided to 1974-75 academic year about 1000 problems of sexuality, but they do 
' {

admit women, university officials women attended Notre Dame. all realize that women have thought the infirmary facility This year the number has in­specialized needs. might be inadequate to serve creased to 1250, with 1400 The schools contacted are all women. The university had so long estimated for 1976. private schools with an average Marquette. Two are in the East: been attuned to strictly male needs Comparing the women's ser­undergraduate enrollment of just Princeton and Boston College. and attitudes, that there was some vices at the student infirmary with over 7000. Three are in the Mid­Like Notre Dame, Boston and apprehension concerning womens' five other private schools of the west: Northwestern, Washington Marquette are Catholic in­medical problems. same size and caliber of Notre University <St. Louis), and stitutions. Also like Notre Dame, 
Boston and Princeton have gone coed within the past five years. 
Washington University has been branded by many as "Jew U. of the Midwest." Approximately 65 per cent of the enrollment is Jewish and 25 per cent are from either New York or New Jersey. 
Upper middle class Jews are known to have liberal attitudes and Washington U.'s health service reflects these attitudes. the university also has an excellent medical school, and the health service has been able to draw upon the school's own resources to serve the students. 
uniVersity of noire dome sl. mary's college 
According to the nursing supervisor,Washington U. has two 
VoL X, No. 64 Thursday, January 15, 1976 
part-time gynecologists who 

Vacation crime wave 
Burglars rob 0-C homes 
by Maureen Flynn said. were spared serious loss by storing the source. "The police told us that Senior Starr Reporter The cold air admitted to the their valuables on campus over the nearly 80 student houses were unheated house through the broken break. burglarized between the time 
Off-campus student residences windows caused the water pipes to Two other burglaries of student students left to go home and were targets for burglary over the freeze and break, Gilinsky said. "A houses were confirmed by ian-Christmas day," the home-<lwner semester break. The Observer was waterbed froze and broke, too," he dlords, but details were not said. able to confirm four reports of continued. "We have water coming available. In neither case did "The boys are usually covered breaking and entering of homes through the ceiling. The house is a students suffer significant loss, by home-<lwners' insurance," the occupied by Notre Dame students, mess." since valuables had been taken landlord said, "but insurance for but there are indications that the Gilinsky said the students had home or stored with friends for the landlords is very expensive." The actual number of burglaries little hope of recovering their holidays. home-<lwner estimated property involving·ND student residents is property, but that damage to the One home-<lwner claimed that loss at approximately $80, but said much larger. Actual figures will building would be covered by their there were a great many cases of the cost of replacing window glass not be available until February, landlord. burglary involving student and locks would cost a substantial when burglary reports for the In another instance, burglars residences, citing police officers as amount. months of December and January jimmied open the front door of a will be compared with listings of residence occupied by six ND off-campus student addresses. seniors. One of the students, Chris 


ND beats SC.. 
One student residence, occupied Hearne, told the Observer that by ND senior Gerry Gilinsky and nothing of value belonging to them four housemates, was entered over was taken except a desk chair and the vacation period by way of a a leisure suit. window and robbed of two clock­The thieves also managed to radios and an electric typewriter. steal a 12-foot long couch, an easy 
"They broke the windows, but chair and a space heater belonging they didn't take much," Gilinsky to the landlord. Both the landlord sa1d. "There really wasn't much to and Hearne believed that the take." The five students removed burglars were looking for drugs their valuables from the house for when they ransacked the rooms. the period of their absence, he They also agreed that the students 

Kissinger goes to Moscow: will conduct arms talks 
WASHINGTON <AP) -Sec­profound concern for the long­retary of State Henry A. Kissin­term future." ger said Wednesday he is going While apparently optimistic to Moscow on the strength of about his mission to Moscow, ·•a clear promise'' that the So­beginning next Tuesday, Kissin­
viet.s would make a significant ger insisted that the two princi­modification of their position on pal negotiating hangups, the So­a new nuclear weapons treaty. viet Backfire bomber and the 
But Kissinger warned that American Cruise missile, re­
the brightened prospects could mained unsettled at this point.be clouded by prolonged Soviet "There has been no dis­support for a Cuban ex­cussion with the Soviets except

peditionary force that he said is they have assured us they are The Notre Dame cheerleaders provement from fifth to second trying to take over all of Ango­about to modify their last pro­were voted the second-best place to the increased talent in this la. posal," he said. Again, Kissin­cheerleading squad in the country year's squad and "much harder "The United States considers ger declared: "We do not know in the tenth annual "Top 20 stunts." such actions incompatible with the details of the Soviet propos­Collegiate Cheer Squad Survey" Grabavoy is very proU<\ of the 
a genuine relaxation of ten­al." recently published by the In­squad's performance so far this sion," Kissinger said in a state­It has been almost 15 months ternational Cheerleading Foun­year. "It's been a difficult year ment at a news conference. since President Ford and Soviet dation. since so many of the kids were 
He emphasized, however, leader Leonid I. Brt>zhnev set Cheerleaders from the new. We've done alot though_ that harnessing nuclear weap· the stage for a new treaty to University of Illinois became the We've been very innovative," she ons technology is a paramount last until 1985 by agreeing to a 1975-76 national champions after said. concern to the two superpowers ceiling of 2,400 long-range mis­improving their showmanship, "We do so many things in dif­and the world itself. siles and bombers for both versatility, and crowd rapport ferent areas: dancing, gym­
Even with the conflict in An­sides. since their fourteenth-place rank nastics, partner stunts, big 
gola, Kissinger said, "we Subsequent negotiations by in the 1974 survey. mounts; and we.ve done it all on should not play with the strate­technical experts in Geneva Mary Anne Grabavoy, Notre our own," Grabavoy continued. gic arms limitations negotia­sputtered, first over fast-devel· Dame cheerleading captain, at­"We don't have any choreo.arapher tions. It is a matter that is of (continued on page 8) tributes Notre Dame's im-or outside help. It all comes from practice at the infirmary a total of. seven hours per week. A nurse trained through Planned Parent­

hood is always there. 

It might seem unnecessary to employ three persons of the ~y­necological staff at a school of 4500. However at Washington U. con­traceptives are readily available and this fact necessitates the service of specialists who can prescribe the devices and treat the various problems which may arise. 
Birth control pills can be ob­tained right at the Washington U. pharmacy in the infirmary facility for about $1.25 a month. Diaphragms are also fitted there and the gynecologists make referrals to private clinics in St. Louis for IUD's. All women are required to fill out a physical form and pay $12 for the gynecologists's exam, which includes a Pap test. 
The infirmary at Washington also employs a staff of psychologists who counsel pregnant girls. The nursing supervisor said, "about three girls a month come in for a prgnancy test, although not all are positive. We feel it's important for a girl to have someone to advise her of alternatives to having an un­wanted baby." 
The Washington infirmary is also equipped to run venereal disease tests.. According to the supervisor, "Everything is kept strictly confidential although we do have to send the blood tests to the county health department." 
As for the students' attitude towards the health service facility, 
(continued on page 3) 
inside the group. I'm very proud of that fact." 
The rest of the top twenty were ranked as follows: University of Southern California <second last year l, Auburn University (first last year), UCLA, Pennsylvania State University, University of Texas, Wake Forest University, University of Florida, Ohio State University, University of Oregon, Indiana State University, Tulane University, Kansas State University, Michigan State University, US Naval Academy, University of South Carolina and the ·University of North Carolirv Thursday, January 15, 1976 · 




,---News Briefs--­
I=========International Horse ransom foiled
~ 
MONTREAL-Two men were arrested last night when police foiled 
r 
an attempt to ransom two/stolen race horses for $200,000. The two horses, Bob Hilton and Baron's Boy were recovered unharmed. Two suspects were arrested and two others are being sought in connection with the ransom plot. 
I===========National 
r 
NYC may need permanent.funds 
WASHINGTON -A study of New York City's finances and ac­counting methods released W~esday says N~w Yor~ 'already is lagging in its efforts to balance ·~ts budget and 1t. cautions that the city may not be able to repay its federal loans Without permanent financing. 
The report also said New York .~ay not be. able to re~urn to the public bond market in 1978 unless 1t 1mproves 1ts accounting. 

Acne ruins career 
DAYTON, Ohio-Norman W. Noel, who turned 19 this week, says he wants to serve in the Air Force, but has been turned down because he has acne on his face. 
"I had excellent scores•on all the tests," Noel claimed, "but when 1 took my physical, the doctor told me I couldn't join the service because I had acne." 

Harris complains 
WASHINGTON-Fred Harris, a democratic hopeful, filed a formal complaint to the Federal Election Commission asking for in­vestigations of President Ford's appointment of Rogers C.B. Morton to a White House post. See story page 9 

I============Local 
Justice to deliver annual message 
INDIANAPOLIS-Indiana Chief Justice Richard M. Givan is to deliver the annual "State of the Judiciary" message to a joint session of the legislature today. 
Givan said he would thank the lawmakers for replacing the justice court system with the new county courts and would also ask the legislature to make public defender offices separate from the courts and establish the federally funded Indiana Judicial Center as a state-supported agency. 
New bills to be heard 
INDIANAPOLIS-Bills to bring no-fault auto insurance to Indiana, reduce penalties for speeders, and declare jimson weed a dangerous drug are scheduled today for hearing in House com­mittees. 
The no-fault concept would allow motorists to collect from their own insurance agencies no matter who was at fault. Drivers who did not exceed 70 m.p.h. is scheduled for the Highways and Trar.­sportation Committee and the jimsonweed bill is to be heard by the Public Policy Committee. 

'-----------------------------------~
. d 
coming tonight

Tallarl a leaves post 
The fine movie "Bonnie and 
by Valerie Zurblis Wire Editor 

Fr. Thomas Tallarida resigned the directorship of the Off-Campus Housing Office effective Dec. 18, 1975, the office of Student Affairs announced yesterday. 
Father John Mulcahy, director of student residence, will in­
corporate the Off-Campus Housing Office with his existing program of on-campus houing. 
Tallarida said he resigned for ·•strictly professional reasons" and that the 1975 report is in. He will continue to be rector of Zahm Hall.· 
''Father Tom's services will be sorely missed in the Office of Student Affairs and by the many off-campus students," commented Bro. Just Paczesny, vice president of student affairs. "His reasons for resigning are personal and I respect his decision." 
Tallarida, who took on the position in September 1974, developed the off-campus service 
New labor sec'y 

Usery may succeed Dunlop 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Chief federal mediator W.J. Usery Jr. is expected to be named secretary of labor now that John T. Dunlop has quit. In ex­plaining his resignation, Dunlop said Wednesday he had lost the "sense of trust, confidence and respect" essential between gov­ernment and organized labor. 
Knowledgeable White House aides described Usery, director of the Federal Mediation Serv­ice and President Ford's chief trouble shooter in Ia bor-man­agement disputes, as a natural replacement. 
Usery, 52, widely respected by both labor and management, was passed over for the Labor Department job last March when Dunlop was named to succeed Peter J. Brennan. 
With Dunlop leaving, the ad­ministration is counting on Use­ry's mediating expertise to maintain industrial peace in this election year. Major con­tracts affecting 4.5 million workers are up for renegotia­tion, and a rash of strikes and inflationary settlements could abort the economic recovery and damage Ford politically. 
Although considered the lead­ing candidate, Usery's nomi­nation is by no means certain. He is expected to be opposed by the same conservative groups that persuaded the President to reverse his posi­tion on the "common site" picketing bill, which would have given unions th~ right to picket an entire construction site. 
Ford vetoed the bill, sought by. organized labor since the Truman administration, after earlier assuring Dunlop and la­bor leaders that he would sign it. The switch destroyed Dun­lop's credibility with the labor chiefs who accused Ford of a double-cross. 
Dunlop, 61, a Harvard econo­mist and long-time mediator and arbitrator in construction industry disputes, met with Ford at the White House Tues­day evening. He submitted a one-paragraph letter recording his resignation, and thanking Ford for the opportunity to serve. 

'Bonnie and Clyde 
Clyde," starring Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway, will be shown 

The Off-Campus Housing·Office is open Monday through Friday with tonight and Friday night in the 
a full-time secretary on duty. Engineering Auditorium at 7, 9 and Tallarida's assistant, Bob 11. Admission is $1.00. 
Ford said he received Dun­Wednesday to explain his deci­lop's letter "with the deepest sion, Dunlop stressed that his regret" and added: "You will determination that he could no be greatly missed by all who longer effectively serve in the have had the privilege of work­administration. ing with you." "I have resigned because 
In meeting with reporters since the veto an atmosphere 


BOOK BARN 
ws~ NEW and OLD 
IN THE NEW GEORGETOWN CENTER Just off Cleveland. Turn left at the Georgetown Sign at Emmons Road. 272-5520 
Pitcher Beer Night WITH 
BRUCE CARR 
White House Inn 
8 mi. N. of State Line 
Take 31 to Niles then North on 51, 
3 miles. 683-9842 
WELCOME BACK! 
and a welcome to you at the 




BULLA SHED 
ioin us this friday and every friday at 5: 15 for mass & dinner 
(BULLA SHED -LOCATED AT THE CORNER OF BULLA & JUNIPER RDS., ACROSS FROM GRACE HALL 

Morganthaler has left the ~!:::!:::~:=:~:::!:::~:t=~=~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::~::::::::::::~!::::::::::::::::::::::!!~m::::::::::::.:.:.!.:-.:·=·=·=·=!!:;::=::::::!<.::::::::::::::...:::::::::::::x:-::::::::::::::::::::*;:~~==·=·=:;!:!:-:.!.!:::~ University and assistant Tom Wilson is no longer working for the office. 
~----------........ 
( The Observer l 
~tlllll1 
s 
Night Editor: Kareem Abdul O'Relley Assistant Night Editor: Jim 
VIe

Stevens Layout Staff: Jim Commyn Day Editor: Eileen O'Grady & Jim Commyn Sports: Bill Brink 



I APARTMENT~
Typists: Howard Halle, Terri Harlan, Mel Celeste Compugraphic: Chip Spina Night Controller: Robert Joseph Steinmetz Picture Screener: Tony 

INOW RENTING FOR SECOND SEMESTER!! I
Chlfarl lAd Layout: Mike Miller, Pat J 
Ryssell :!l~-FULLY FURNISHED ONE AND TWO BEDROOM A~Tsii 
from a few printed listings of 
mes-for-rent to a well-()rganized 
1d sophisticated department. fhe personal inspection of homes­to-be-rented was initiated by Tallarida and his staff along with the editing of two informative booklets-Qne-for students and one for landlords. 
Names and appointments of student aides will be announced by .the Office of Student Affairs as 
soon· hs 'they na·ve ~>eeri !iel~tea: • 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during exams and vacation periods. The Observer os pubI ished by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 10 dollars per semester ( 18 dollars per year) from The Ob server, Box Q, Notre Dame, In diana, ~6556. Second Class postage 
paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556.

...... , ................. :·· .. .. 
:~jj:-SPECIAL 5 MONTH LEASES ARE AVAILABLE. ljl~ i~~f -INDOOR POOL WILL BE COMPLETED SOON \llt 
I I 
i.-NEW SECURITY LOCKS HAVE BEEN INSTALLED [l~~ i -NIGHTIME SECURITY GUARD ON DUTY ~l~I. -24 HR. MAINTENANC~ I ··~ ~ .!i'.tJJ~~~~*~W~ 
Thursday, January 15, 1976 the observer. 

ND infirmary compared to other campuses 
(continued from page 1) Evans said. have pills becaue of the cost and to the gynecology clinic wheich is has considered getting a 
the supervisor notea, "1t's a l,ittle Northwestern University has what it would do to out budget." held twice a week at the Boston gynecologist for the past four 
hard to say, but at least we haven't alway been coed and now has an The director said at Marquette a College Infirmary. years, that is, since Notre Dame 
had any bad letters in the student undergraduate enrollment of woman would be referred to a Mazur said there is no direct went coed. 
newspaper." approximately 9300, 3000 of whom Planned Parenthood agency in counseling for pregnant girls at Jones said, "We would benefit 
She added, "Some students don't are full-time women. Milwaukee. In fact many medical Boston College through the health beautifully from a gynecologist."want any part of it, of course. At Northwestern, there is a problems encountered by service, but there is a student 
r 
However. she added, there are Many students here are from the gynecology clinic on the third floor Marquette students are not han­psychologist and a chaplain who problems with getting such a East and are used tohaving their of the infirmary. Barbara Ber­dled by their infirmary. It is open handle such cases. specialist at the infirmary.parents pay for specialists, so they ngard, the clinic's counselor said from 8:30 to 5 and only on week Mazur added, "Boston hospitals "Because of the size of the want to see a 'real' doctor in whn it comes to womens' days. are excellent and vary in their school, we might be compromizing
downtown St. Louis." problems, "Northwestern is The director said, "Since religious orientation. There are the quality of the gynecologist,"
Washington, although it has conservative." Compared to Notre Marquette is right in Milwaukee, Catholic hospitals with a Jones said. always been coed, only hired a Dame, however, there certainly and it is an urban area there are traditional Catholic view point, but She explained, "In any givengynecologist for its health service are big differences. several hospitals nearby where there are more liberal hospitals week, there may be only 6 to 24 within the last ten years. The 
too." calls for a gynecologist, and it is 
supervisor explained, "Several Because there are many clinics difficult to find a doctor who is 
years ago the students picketed the in the Boston area which are easily willing to spend his time at the 
infirmary because there was no I accessible to the students, Mazutr Notre Dame infirmary to answer 
gynecologist, so we decided we had siad, "It is hard to say if there is an only a few calls." 
to come along with the times." increase in venereal disease." When discur;sing the availability"We try to go with the students' ··.._j These clinics are excellent and of gynecologists at other schools,needs," she added. may be are preferrable to the Jones referred to the fact that Princeton University went coed students, he said. Mazur said if a many of those schools were af­about the same time Notre Dame -VD case is treated at the Boston filiated with a medical school. "At did. It has some 1500 women College health service, the matter Notre Dame we can't program the enrolled witt> full-time un­is kept strictly confidential. need for a gynecologist. Who dergraduate -:.talus. The total Parents are not informed of the knows if anyone would have a 
enrollment at Princeton is near situation. problem on the days a gynecologist 5000. was scheduled to visit the in­Princeton has a sex education Though Notre Dame's firmary," Jones said. clinic in its health service facility enrollment, religious affiliation and She also mentioned what th according to Susan Fox, the coeducation status are closely infirmary has been able to do clinic's coordinator, Princeton related to Boston College's, Notre concerning the service of a employs three physicians whose ,Dame has been more conservative 
gynecologist. "There are doctors 

primary care is in the field of in its health policy. in the South Bend area who have gynecology. ,. ,. said they will try to schedule Notre 
At Princeton, every type of birth Sr. Dolores said there is a rather Dame women within 48 hours so 
control method is dispensed. limited need for a gynecologist at they don't have to wait so long to 
According to Fox, about 40 women Notre Dame. "Frankly, I don't see a gynecologist." 
a month come in for con-think we have that problem," she Jones said she has no hard data 
traceptives, including IUD's and Photo by Tony Chifari stated. on whether this sytem is actually 
diaphragms. The Princeton clinic Like Washington University students can go." One student said, however, that­working. "If the doctors that the 
also dispenses "morning-after" Northwestern is closely affili~ted Though the Marquette infirmary there "should be one for practical infimary refers a girl to are not 
pills, but only when "it is ab-with its medical school in down-may sound inadequate for a school purposes." going by this arrangement, then 
solutely indicated," Fox said. town Chicago. There are seven of 10,000 there is a part-time "It would be so much easier to we haven't profited. Notre Dame 
She noted, "We will only give it part-time physicians on the gynecologist who comes in once a get to a doctor if there was one women should have priority," to a woman once while she's a suburban Evanston campus. week. He is paid by the university, right on campus," she stated. The Jones noted. student at Princeton." There is also a full-time and the medicine he may prescribe woman added she thinks birth Because Notre Dame is a 
control pills should be dispensed
Fox said if a student ?oes not gynecology-nurse and a counselor is free from the infirmary phar­Catholic university, it is hard to 
because "It's ·very common thing.
have the money at the time, the at the sex clinic. macy. However, the gynecolosist discuss one result of having a 
clinic gives a free sample of birth Northwestern has a policy like is limited in what he can do The University should face the gynecologist-an increase in 
control pills for the first month. Princeton's when it comes to because no pathologist is available facts." contraceptive requests-without 
Fox also said all women must contraceptives. Berngard ex-in the laboratory, according to the attend a birth control session to plained, "Before we'll prescribe a director. discuss the advantages and contraceptive, that girl must at-He also said there is a counseling disadvantages involved. If a girl tend an educational session or see service for pregnant girls, but it is learns she is pregnant, the clinic a nurse." separate from the health facility. pushes alternatives to abortion but Northwestern stocks birth He stated, "We can only wait nine will refer those who decide they control pills in its pharmacy. They months and find out in case of a want an abortion to a small clinic usually charge clinic prices which pregnancy." "fortunately," in New York. are lower than drug store prices. he added, "we don't have to 
Counseling is a major part of the In cases where the student is worry much about the problem of work at the Princeton sex clinic. without the money, free samples pregnancy." Besides the birth control and are given. Berngard said, "We But Catholicism is not pr<!gnancy sessions, there is also a don't feel bad about charging the necessarily an indication of con­team of two chap1,ains and a minimal fee because we feel that servatism. In contrast to consulting gynecologist who deal birth control may be a respon-Marquette is another Catholic with sexual dysfunction and sibility a girl needs to take." school, Boston College. With an Masters-Johnson therapy. The clinic at Northwestern undergraduate enrollment of some 
provides individual counseling for 9000, the college went coed five pregnant girls. Berngard said years ago. Boston now has almost such counseling is necessary "to 4000 women and seems to offer a explain procuedures and look at direct comparison to Notre Dame. the alternatives." Dr. Arnold Mazur, director of 
"We explain what action we health services said certain 
Iwould take in the same cir-changes were necessary since Photo by Tony Chlfarl . cumstances, and if a girl still coeducation came to Boston One sophomore woman said considering the religious doctrine · wants an abortion, we usually College. birth control pills should only be involved. i refer her to one clinic in Chicago," The changes included a given out by the patient's home Sr. Dolores said, "Since this is a 
Physician because individuals Catholt'c unt'versty we assum d
Berngard said. gynecology clinic in the health • e an 
. f .1. d th . react so differently. However she would expect the doctors on the 
The sex clinic at Northwestern servtce act tty an e stabhsh-said the infirmary should have a staff to observe the moral codes of has been operating for more than ment of a women's center on gynecologist once or twice a week. the church., 
jfive years. The students expressed campus where female students can She noted, "such a specialist is One student noted, "The an interest in having one so con-obtain information and peer necessary for the same reason you University of Notre Dame shuts its venient to the campus. There has counseling . have an orthopedist to handle eyes a d t d h th' d
been continuous improvement in Mazur satd birth control pills are n pre en s sue mgs o
breaks and sprains-specialists not go on It is the safest way for 
its services, according to Ber-used "for limited purposes" at · 
with speicalized knowledge should them to handle such delicate
ngard. She said they are in the Boston College. "We dispense handle special problems." matters." process now of setting up a small them for medical illnesses such as Another junior said a gyn-Another student agreed with library at the clinic so information pain relief during menstruation," ecologist was necessary at Notre what Fr. Evans at Princeton said. Photo by Tony Chlfari is readily available to all students. Mazur said. Dame because "women need She said, "the university should 
It may be argued that while the Berngard said there have not Because Boston does deal a little special attention requiring such a refrain from a moral or ethical health service at Princeton is fine been any problems with he with birth control pills, the Boston service." She said the University judgement of women in this area." for Princeton, the school is not Catholic priests and organizations pharmacy does stock common should have a reputable staff "It is certainly not immoral or un­affiliated with the Catholic Church. on the Northwestern campus brands of such medication. The doctor to look after these needs. Catholic to provide information 
But Fox said, "We have the ~oncernin~ the clinic:s somewhat $60 annua~ he~lth fee takes care of Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant about birth control and sexuality," complete support of the Catholic hberal poh~r about.btrth control. such medtc~b~?· . to the Provost, disagreed with Sr. she added. chaplain who helps us inform She noted, The prtests are more Mazur satd, We are now m the Dolores. Jones said the universitv (continued on page 9)
liberal thana Iotofotherpeopleon process of discussing con-,_--------~--------­students about birth control and 

sexual problems, both physical the Northwestern campus." traceptives for the purpose of birtht ARMANDO IS NOW LOCATED NEAR CAMPUSf and mental." The administrators at Marquette co~trol. We're not sure what ourf ....I 
Fr. Evans, one of the chaplains university are not so liberal pohcy s~ould be ~ecause Boston TO GIVE YOU THE CUT OR STYLE YOU WAN It and a Notre Dame alumnus said, probably because of Marquette'~ College ts a Catholic school." f c;tf'lmando'j, rz3a'lbe.'l & c)f,d'l ~h [e ~/;of:l f "There is nothing wrong with affiliation with the Catholic Mazur thinks perhaps the pillf Y f dispensing information." He Church. could be used in a limited way. OPEN SIX DAYS A WEEK stated sex education counseling is Marquettehasanundergraduate "Forinstance,wemightbeabletof MONDAYTHRUFRIDAveT05:3o. sATuRoAveTo4 • available for any and all people enrollment of about 10,000,4000 of refill perscriptions a girl already PERSONALIZED SERVICE ' 
and sees no conflict with Catholic whom are women. has, but not perscribe them our-' f doctrine. The director of health services at selves," Mazur noted. 
"I inform students of the Marquette said they have never He said present policy at Boston ARMANDO FEM lA, 14 37 N. IRONWOOD DR. f Catholic Church's stand and of the given contraceptives. He did not Collegeistoleteachwomandecidef PHONE 277-0615 souTH BEND. INDIANA options available, but I let each cite religious doctrine or morals as morally about the use of birth FOR APPT f 
person make up his own mind," the main r,eason but sa,id•."~~ don't cont.rnl. Rnt they do refer womenA-_-~-:_._. __________._j ' :>. •· -• ' • • •· • ·• • • -·-• • • • • • • ' ~ \ . • •f I 

the observer Thursday, January 15, 1976 
Vatican decriesextra-marital sex 
VATICAN CITY (AP) -The Vatican reasserted Thursday the Roman Catholic Church's condemnation of sex outside marriage but said homosexuals who are "incurable" should be treated with understanding and judged with prudence. 
A special church document on sex also: -Described masturbation as a "seriously disordered act." -Said sex education for youngsters should be prudent. 
-Accused the mass media and entertainment sectors of spreading "licentious hedon­ism." 
Acting on the order of Pope Paul VI, the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith issued a 6,000-word declaration criti­CIZing theologians, psy­chologists and churchmen who challenge traditional sex mor­als. 
In the document, the congre­gation assailed what it called ·'unbridled exaltation of sex." It said it acted "in view of the urgent need to oppose serious errors and widespread aberrant modes of behavior." 
Several priest professors have lost their teaching posts in recent years for departing from official doctrine on sex matters. Sex ethics have been swept by an urge for change more than any other doctrinal field among Roman Catholics, especially in Europe and North America. 
The president of the United States Conference of Bishops, Archbishop Joseph L. Ber­nardin of Cincinnati, welcomed the document as "a clear, pas­toral and timely proclamation of values which are fundamen­tal to the defense of human dig­nity." 
"Chastity is not a negation of sexuality; it is a way of placing the God-given gift of sex in the context of a full, mature human life, rooted in respect for one­self, others and the law of God," he said. 
On homosexuality the declar­ation was more explicit and un­derstanding than any previous public Vatican document. 
Without discounting what the Church considers the gravity of all homosexual acts, it drew a distinction between homosex­uals "whose tendency comes from a false education, from a lack of normal sexual develop­ment, from habit, from bad ex­ample or from other similar causes" and a second group "who are definitely such be­cause of some kind of innate in­stinct or a pathological con­stitution judged to be incur­able." 
Of the latter, it said: "In the pastoral field these homosex­uals must certainly be treated 

Israelis review position in Geneva negotiations 
By The Associated Press 
Israel on Wednesday threat­ened to "reconsider its com­mitment" to the Geneva peace talks as Arab nations readied a proposal to ask the U.N. Secur­ity Council to add Palestinian "national rights" to the frame­work for a Mideast peace. 
Foreign Minister Yigal Allon, speaking to the Israeli parlia­ment in Jerusalem, warned that any changes in Security Council resolutions on the Mideast could lead to "paral­ysis, if not to the abolition" of the Geneva conference. 
The Geneva conference was convened after the October 1973 Mideast war, with the United States and the Soviet Union as cochairmen. It met once, then recessed to await Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger's per­sonal diplomacy. 
Arab ·countries want the Pal­estine Liberation Organization invited to the next Geneva ses­sion, but Israel refuses to nego­tiate with the guerrilla organ­ization and is boycotting the current Security Council ses­sion because the PLO was in­vited to participate. 
Allon said "the Palestinian problem must not be ignored, but the PLO does not represent any people and is not fit for ne­gotiations on any subject." 
At the United Nations in New York, Arab delegates said they had agreed in principle on a resolution to. put before the Se­curity Council calling for Is­raeli withdrawal from all occu­pied Arab territory and recog­nition of the "inalienable na­tional rights'' of the Palestin­ians as the basis for any peace settlement. 
The Security Council's two main Mideast resolutions ­adopted in 1967 and 1973 -call for Israeli withdrawal from ter­ritories captured in the 1967 war but do not specifically say "all" territories, an in­tentionally vague reference to allow for negotiation. The Pale­stinian demand for a homeland is not mentioned in the existing resolutions. 
High-level U.N. sources said some differences remained among the Arabs over the reso­lution and the assessment of the U.S. position, but a draft was expected by the end of the week. 
The sources said Washington may be amenable to a resolu­tion promoting the ''h~_gitimate interests" of the Palesti'nians but will veto one that calls for Israeli withdrawal from all oc­cupied territories. · 
In the Lebanese ..civil war, Christian fighters broke into-. a Palestinian refugee camp north of Beirut .and t!laimed' to. ba\le repulsed an assaul( -by leftist Moslem forces aimed at cutting off the last Christian bastions in the hotel district. 
The fighting came as plans were reported for an Arab min­isummit in Damascus to try to end the nine-month-old. civil war. 


with understanding and sus­tained in the hope of over­coming their personal diffi­culties and their inability to fit into society. Their culpability will be judged with prudence. 
"But no pastoral method can be employed which would give moral justification to these acts on grounds that they would be constant with the condition of such people." 
It added that Scripture does "not permit us to conclude that all those who suffer from this anomaly are personally respon­sible for it, but it does attest to the fact that homosexual acts are intrinsically disordered and can in no case be approved of." 
The Catholic Church has frequently tempered uncompro­mising moral condemnation in principle with leniency in prac­tice. But in the past, the Ameri­can Catholic Encyclopedia says, homosexuals often had been depicted by the Church as "moral monsters for whom God had selected special punish­ment." 
Sex outside marriage is al­ways sinful, the declaration said. 
"The Church holds from di­vine revelation and from her authentic interpretation of the natural law . . . that the use of the sexual function has its true meaning and moral rectitude only in true marriage," it said. 
It avoided going into the eth­ics of sex in marriage, refer­ring to Pope Paul's 1968 Ency­clical which restated con­demnation of artificial con­traception. 
The declaration rejected the opinion of those upholding the moral legitimacy of premarital sex as the external expression of "an affection which is al­ready in some way conjugal in 

· 
,.. 

• 
------COUPON 

the psychology of the subjects." 
The document puts a positive value on human sexuality itself, however, speaking of the "mor­al goodness" of the sexual act in marriage, both in mutual self-giving and human procrea­tion. 
On masturbation, it said that "subjectively there may not al­ways be serious fault." But it added: "Whatever the force of certain arguments of a biologi­cal and philosophical nature, which have sometimes been used by theologians, in fact both the magisterium of the Church -in the course of a constant tradition and the moral sense of the faithful have declared without hesitation that masturbation is an intrinsically and seriously disordered act." 
On sex education, the docu­ment urged parents and teach­ers to "prudently" give their children and pupils "informa­tion suited to their age." 
It said mass media and en­tertainment were responsible for "infecting the general men­tality" and spreading "li­centious hedonism." 
The theologian who irked the Vatican more than anyone else on the question of sex morals was a Swiss Dominican priest, the Rev. Stephan Pfuertner. 
FOR APPT. CALL: 272-7222 18381EDISON RD. AT SO. BENDAVE. 


$1.00 off 
any 

14 inch Pizza. 
713 E. Jefferson Expires Feb. 1 limit 1 coupon per 
AUDITIONS for~NO ARTHUR MILLER'S
SMC THE CRUCIBLE 
THE AT RE Sun., Jan 18 at 1 :30P.M. 
and Mon., Jan 19 at 7:30 P.M. 
(callbacks -Tues., Jan 20 at 7:30 P.M.) 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
OPEN TO ALL ND/SMC STUDENTS 


rnictlael.!s 
hairStLILinQ
etc. 
------COUPON -----­
I 
I 
$.50 off I 
I 
any I I 
I 
10 inch Pizza I 
71 3 E. Jefferson Expires Feb. 1 .limit 1 coupon per 
....... 

, 
Thursday, January 15, 1976 the observer 
Patty Hearst to testify against psychiatrist 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) Patricia Hearst broke her si­lence of the four months since her capture to testify Wednes­day that a government psy­chiatrist had driven her to hys­teria by asking accusing ques­tions. 
In a surprise move by her de­fense, the jailed heiress took the stand at a special hearing called to consider defense com­plaints about the conduct of the psychiatrist, Dr. Harry Kozol of Boston. 
"Everything was like an ac­cusation," she said in a soft but firm voice. "He didn't care what I said or didn't say." 
Clad in a blue blazer, match­ing slacks and a turtleneck sweater, Miss Hearst was asked about her Jan. 7 meeting with Dr. Kozol. one the psy­chiatrists who has examined her prior to her Jan. 26 trial on federal bank robbery charges. The examinations are for pos­sible use as expert testimony about her mental state. 
After preliminary questioning from chief defense attorney F. Lee Railey showing that she had been interviewed by sev­eral psychiatrists at San Mateo County Jail since her capture Sept. 18, Miss Hearst was asked about her questioning by Kozol. 
She testified that among oth­l'r things, Kozol had asked if she was congratulated by mem­bers of the terrorist Sym­
bionese Liberation Army after p·ff b h D 11 
the April 1974 bank robery in l S Urg • a aS 
which she is charged. 
"I told him I didn't feel proud about it," she answered. She was kidnaped by the SLA two months before and later de­clared she was joining her cap­tors. 
Kozol could not immediately be located for comment. 
In opening the hearing, U.S. District Court Judge Oliver J. Carter said the session was called to consider whether the psychiatrist had acted "in a manner inconsistent with ap­propriate procedures for inter­viewing the defendant." Her lawyers had said they planned to make "serious charges" about the encounter. 
Bailey began the questioning hy asking Miss Hearst to relate the circumstances of the inter­view a week ago. 
"I was in the cell and a dep­uty came back and told me he was here," she said. "I asked if (defense attorney AI J Johnson was there and was told no. I 

-if -if 
Law team rankedi .i?HAWAu •v•.• , '1 t 
among top lour 
Notre Dame's Law School Moot Court Team is ranked among the nation 's four best after its per-f ormance in the 26th Annual National Moot Court Competition in New York City in mid-
Decem her. 
The Notre Dame squad defeated teams from Hofstra, South Dakota and Mercer law schools before losing in the semi-final round to the University of California at Davis team. Notre Dame qualified for the New York City competition by winning its Regional in November. 
Over two hundred teams had participated in the competition which involved arguments of a simulated anti-trust case before the U.S. Supreme Court. The 
~ 
: 
-tc 
-tc -tc 
: 
• 
-tc -tc 
~ ~ ~ 
: 
-if 
competition is co-spons?red by the -if Young Lawyers Comm1ttee of the ~ Association of the Bar of the City of ~ New York and the American College t of Trial Lawyers. -if 
Members of the team are Dennis il Bonucchi, Kathy Comfrey and i Kevin Gallagher, with June 
then said I had been told not to see anyone without the advice of my counsel. She went out and came back and showed me a court order and told me I had to go out." 
"He said I seemed kind of upset," she continued. "I told him I had not been feeling well and had not felt well that day." 
Asked if she told him the spe­cific illness, she said "Yes." Bailey then advised her not to 
name  the illness.  
Miss Hearst's  mother  said  
over  the  weekend  that  her  

daughter was suffering from an ailment that was "gynecologic­al in nature." The San Mateo County sheriff, in charge of the jail, confirmed Wednesday that she had such an ailment but said it was not serious. 
Miss Hearst said she was asked general questions about her family and about her nurse as a child. She testified that Kozol asked whether the nurse was mean to her and asked, "What's the matter, was it be­cause she couldn't break you?" 
Miss Hearst said she didn't recall her answer to that and then she suggested to him that they continue to discuss her family history. "He said let's go to Feb. 4 0974). You got yourself kidnaped," she quoted the doctor as saying. 
Asked what she replied, Miss 

NCAA defeats new plan 
ST. LOUIS <APJ -The Na­tional Collegiate Athletic Assoc­ciation on Wednesday over­whelmingly defeated a pair of proposals that would have di­vided the money from college football bowl games and the regular-season television series among all members of the as­sociation. 
The NCAA completed action on 79 pieces of legislation left over from last summer's spe­cial session on methods of econ­omizing by killing most of the proposals through one means or another. 
MIAM-I CAP) -Counterfeit 
tickets are being sold for Super 
Bowl X between the Pittsburgh 
Steelers and Dallas Cowboys, a 
National Football League offi­
cial said Wednesday. 
Jim Kensil, executive direc­
tor of the NFL, said the bogus 
tickets came to his attention 
when a resident of Hallandale, 
Fla., a Miami suburb, brought 
18 tickets to NFL officials at 
Super Bowl headquarters, com­
plaining that the seat and row 
numbers were smudged. The 
tickets were purchased by the 
man in "a commercial estab­
lishment in Hallandale" for $30 
each, Kensil said. 
The face value of every Su­
per Bowl ticket is $20. 
Kensil said the phony tickets 
had a white spot in the lower 

# ...-if • -if 
t FINAL WEEK! ~ 

-if .. 
.. MEN wi·NTED •

! II -if 
-.. Prlnte company with lalie C.I.A. contract seeks -if
• men wiliingto risk life. Perfect physicaicondition. -if .. Exper1ence w1th weaponry, mcendiaries. Karale/ ·!'f .. Judo. No Joyal11es No dependents. Constanl dan· if.! ger Lon&carmdoubtful. -if 
-l' 
~ 
! 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
-if 
~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
• 

Gottschalk serving as alternate. Phone 288-8488 ~· The team will argue the case in-: 

for times I it 

tramurally in March to a court ~ presided over by the Hon. Tom ~ Soon· Clark, former Justice of the U.S. • • h h. Supreme Court. •·Gone wtt t e 
:J 

However, the delegates did do away with paid in-person scouting of opponents in all sports except basketball for University Division-that is, bigtime-teams, and abolished spring football practice for Di­vision III schools. 
But they refused to extend preseason practice limitations to all sports or to modify exist­ing legislation regarding pre­season practice in football and basketball. 
They also refused to limit the length of seasons in sports oth­er than football and basketball. 

game 
Bogus bowl tickets sold •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
: 

left-hand corner of the picture • and the seat and row numbers 
smudge easily. They also are • printed on coarser and heavier • paper and the color is less • 
brilliant. .: 
All 18 of the bogus tickets • bear non-existent rows in the • Orange Bowl. The upper stands • in ~he stadium go up to Row 26, • 

wh1le the counterfeit tickets in •DRAFT 
the NFL possession are num-• bered Row 27 or higher. • 

Kensil said he had no idea • how many other counterfeit • tickets might be in circulation. • He said the league had advised • 
the organized crime bureaus of e 

FEATURING AN ALL NEW MENU ••• 

Dade and Broward counties. • 
Get more out 
ofyourlastl years


ofcoUege. 
If for some reason you missed taking Army ROTC in your first two years of college, you can still take it in your last two. But only if you apply while you're still a sophomore. 
In orde_r-to mak~ up for the years you missed, you'll have to ttend a·speCI::JI camp m the summer before your junior year 
get some sion as an 
1 
1 
I I 
l 

'~total of $2,900 i~ the Two-Year Program. You'll maff~gement exJ?enence. And you'll get a commis­
·~<:_~ce:_along~Ith a college degree. 
--------------.., 

Annv R'k I 
,~ •Da~e, r.N 46556 1 
NPlL .. rli :1c' mewore mfom1ation about the Army ROTC 1
cJ·Program.
sc
Twn.Ye 
I Ms.
I Mr 
. 
1 Addr,t". . J City--\ 
I :""ttnt-~
I \
I College Altending 1 Graduation Date 

Hearst said, "I don't remem­ber." 
"So you took offense because you felt it meant it had some­thing to do with your own kid­naping?" Bailey asked. 
"Yes." 
Under cross-examination by 

U.S. Atty. James L. Browning Jr., Miss Hearst said Kozol also asked about her contact with SLA member Willie Wolfe, for whom she proclaimed her love after he died in a May 1974 shootout with police in Los An-
THE POSTER PLACE 

100 11x17 POSTERS only $10.00 


geles. 
"Isn't it a fact that he asked you if you had deep relations with Wolfe?" Browning asked. 
"It is possible," she said. 
She testified earlier that Ko­zol also asked about a second SLA member, Donald "Cinque" DeFreeze. She testified that he "asked about Cinque and how dark he was, whether he had any white in him." 
Miss Hearst said she told the doctor she did not know DeF­reeze's racial composition. 


RIVER BEND PUB· : 
•
NILES & LASA
LLE AVE. • 
• 

TODAY FRIDAY SATURDA •
Y:• 

DRAFT .20
.25 
From 8 pm to closing 
• 
• 
• 
•



DRAFT .25 • 
•
•
•
• 
County 
Zip 
I 
I
I I
1 
I Phone I 
I I 
I
1

\ @TheAnnyROTC 'IWo-Year Drn.tram 
I • ·~ 1 
I 
"Under the authority of Tille 10 USC 2101 2111 d 1•
provide you materials on the Army ROTC • your a dr~s Is needed toI form is voluntary. Not completing this fornf~Cfflr~r~v crm~letlon of this I _L~~~p'ci's~~~~}al. Information obtained will be used toF'k~h!~';!;'r~r~~~~ 
Wind ~-------------------------------·--·-----l--____j 

,

!-~-~--~~~ DOONESBURY -. I by Garry Trudeau· 


' *1~J.Q~,~~ver 
FoundEd November 3, 1966 

The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Muy•s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­mentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, cartoons and regular columns express the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and leHers are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Editorials: 283-1715 News: 213-1661 Business: 213-7471 
Business Manager Tom Modglin Advertising Manager Tom Whelan 
Thursday, January 15, 1976 

seriously folks 
Oh, Ron! Poor Ron! 
art buchwald 

WASHINGTON -Ron Nessen has been complaining about the clumsy image the media has been giving President Ford. Angered by the press coverage devoted to Mr. Ford's fall in the snow while skiing, Nessen told reporters it was "the most unconscionable misrepresentation of a President" he'd ever heard of. 
He went on to say that President Ford was the "best co-i>rdinated President in history." 
Now any press secretary worth his salt should know you don't get anywhere by complaining about the image the media is presenting of a President. What you do is turn an act of clumsiness into one of skill and dexterity. 
I don't like to tell the White House press secretary how to run his business, but this would have been a much better wav to handle the situation. 
The afternoon briefing at Vail: 
Q-Ron, we have a r~port ~~at 
the President fell wh1le skung 
today. What do you have on that'? 
A-Yes the President fell as 
planned this afternoon in six inches 
of snow near a large Aspen tree. 
Q-As planned, Ron'? 
A-That's correct. Before he left 
Washington, the President made 
plans to fall just once so all the 
photographers would get the only 
picture thev had made the trip for. 
Q-You mean the President rlidn 'I have to fall'? 
A-He certainly didn't. As you know, the President is the best skier who ever lived in the White House. 
But despite this it took great skill to fall exactly where the photographers were stationed. His Secret Servicemen were against it, but the President overruled them. 
The President said, "If I don't fall down once while I'm skiing, everyone will think I'm not a nice guy." 
Q-Ron, when the President left for his skiing trip from the White House lawn, he tripped over the leashes of his dogs. Was that planned also'? 
A-Well, I'll be frank with you. I asked the President to trip over the dogs' leashes because we were trying to give you fellows a story for the afternoon papers. I knew the President wasn't going to make any news going to Vail for Christmas. But I was certain if he tripped over his dogs' leashes it w.:-uld make th front pages-and I was ;i~ht. 
Q-Ron, are you trying to tell us that every time the President stumbles, it is thought out in ad­''::tnce'? 
A-Let's say it's discussed beforehand. As you know, Ford is the most co-i>rdinated President we've ever had, so we don't want him to stumble too often. But when the occasion arises where we think a slip or a fall will help his image, we urge him to do it. 
Q-Whose idea was it for the 

_-sided~ome will pay instead of receive. They must be able to find work and therefore not need it. Children will go to the best parent, not just !o the mother. In probate the husband must be able to get a share of the wife's estate (in most states a wife can legally leave her husband out of the will. Fair is fair.) No longer will a woman expect to be supported by her spouse. She will have half the responsibility. On the national front they will be able to be drafted and fight like any other citizen. Why make distinctions'? Let them be on the front lines. If they are going to have rights let them have all of them, even those that are not desired. Let them serve in the military even sometimes in the intolerable conditions that soldiers get into. Let them fight and die without qualms. Women can and should have equal rights in every area. Let's give them a chance. But do not bend over backwards. If you must choose between two applicants (male and female) and th­e woman is the superior, by all means hire her. But if the male is clearly the superior, the male should get the job. In many places, women, because of their sex, not their ability, are being given jobs they rightly do not deserve and where there are more qualified males available. If they wish equality, let them enter into com­petition with others and may the best person win. That is equality. 
Give equality to· the wom-en of he world. Face it men, why shouldn't they have equal rights'? Let them have the rights ... and t~e responsibilities that go along with them. Let them have all the rights and then there will be real equality ... what this nation was 
bas~ upon. :;-,:,~,,!t:;1j;d:i; ..!.'~'ll' 
c-•• ,,.. f• "..· 

EDITORIAL BOARD Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief AI Rutherford Managing Editor Jim Eder Executive Editor Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor 
Ken Girouard News Editor Bob Mader Campus Editor Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor 
Ken Bradford Copy Editor Val Zurblis Wire Editor Tom O'Neil Features Editor Bill Brink Sports Editor Chris Smith Photo Editor Dan Sanchez Senior Night Editor 
President to fall down the steps 
getting off the plane in Salzburg 
last June? 
A-Henry Kissinger's. He wanted to show President Sadat that we weren't putting pressure on him. 
Q-So you feel President Ford's fall at Salzburg turned President Sadat around? 
A-Well, the Suez Canal is now open isn't it? 
Q-Wouldn't you say the President was deceiving the American people by stumbling when he doesn't have to? 
A-On the contrary, I think it helps his credibility. The dif­ference between Mr. Ford and former Presidents is that we've only found out how badly they stumbled after they left office. President Ford has insisted the public know about his stumbling while he's still in the White House. Don't forget the President stumbled into his job, and since it worked then it should help him with his election. 
Q-Is that it, Ron? 

A-I hear a funny joke about the President the other day. It's really a Polish joke, but we switched it around to fit Mr. Ford. Would you like to hear it'? Well, anyhow, there was a power failure at the White House and Mr. Ford was stuck on an escalator for three hours. Ha, ha, ha, ha. I'll pass on any new ones to you as soon as I hear them. 

Equality's Other Half 
paul herbig 
What are the differences between men and women'? The physical ones are the most obvious. But what are the real differences'? Mentally there is no true difference. Reports that men are more intelligent than women are based upon cultural pressures. Women have been traditionally told during their adolescent years not to show up males. Intellectually if the cultural and social biases were to be removed, there is very little difference between the sexes._ 
Emotionally and psychologically, differences abound. Many are due to the physical make-up of the sexes. Lots more are due to that evil of past history--cultural bias. Women cry; men are Rocks of Gilbraltar. Between the sexes the differences are there but none have major influence on the topic. One sex is better in one area but the other is just as superior in another equally important one. So summing all of it up, what is found is equality. 
An amendment that proposes full equality is the ERA . Proponents call it, justifiably, one might add, the last and greatest of all civil rights acts. The opposition condemn it as countering every concept and tradition our great nation was built upon. In Montana, a fundamentalist went down on his knees and was heard to say, "Dear God if you meant to make women equal, you would have had 6 female apostles." Which ranks as an all time great behind only the immortal, "Ifmen had been meant to fly ... " 
Another argument is given. "Can you imagine," says one op­ponent, "an eighteen-year-i>ld gi.rl raised in the church suddenly thrown into a military barracks'!" Shocking isn't it. But review the situation. What, may we ask, is the trauma of an eighteen year old boy, raised in the church, thrown into a military barracks? Nothing. It is his obligation and his duty, Strange isn't it'? 
What is proposed in this "radical amendment'?" Women would gain rights only men previously had. They would be able to be drafted and fight, to work in dirty foundries, to lift heavy objects, to work in dangerous coal mines and everywhere no one really wants to work. The rights they would get are strictly those we men have. If they wanted such jobs, I wouldn't fight against it. Wouldn't it be fair to allow the ladies all the "rights" we have'? 
Let them have all the rights we men have. Let them be doctors and lawyers and professionals. Let them be thrown into jail for scandalous behavior. Let them have malpractice suits thrown against them. Let them have the rights. Allow them to hold senior corporate offices, high political positions and be widely respected. But if they do let them also be prepared to have the not-so-wanted rights wej)ave: ulcers, high blood pressure, heart attacks, the right to be assassinated if you're not liked. If they want the privileges and rights involved in the job, they must be prepared to pay the consequences. In order to achieve full equality, there are some responsibilities 

.. ---tfl..sl-l_women must accept. Alimony will no longer be entirely one 
"For shame! In the clutches of Demon Rum again and underage!" 
,. . 
" ,, )~ ­
r • 'I' .. 1 ,··. · '1."t, 

Thursday, Jan'uary )5, lt76' '·.' 


N. Vietnamese returnfive bodies 

c 
Cft 


Abraham & Straus has been in business for over a century and has always been recep­tive to inno.vation and "new thinking". Per­haps this explains how A&S came to be the largest division of the most profitable d9partment store group in the country, Federated Department Stores, Inc. 
To keep pace with our continuous growth, we are seeking college graduates with Asso­ciate, Bachelor, or Master's degrees in sub­jects ranging from Liberal Arts to Business Administration. 
Here at A&S you will find a broad spectrum of career opportunities in merchandising and management. For individuals with good scholastic records, energy, ambition, and no fear of hard work, the rewards are rapid and many. 
To get you off to a good start, we have the industry's finest Executive Training Pro­gram that is supported by every member of our management team_ Upon completion of this program, the doors are open to an excit­ing career in merchandising, administration, or financial management. 
For full information about your career with A&S, see our Campus Interviewer on TUES. JAN 27 or send resume to: 
Director of Executive Recruiting 
ABRAHAM & STRAUS 
'420 Fulton Street 
Brooklyn, New York 11201 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 
THE 

STONE BUFFALO 
CLOSE-OUT SALE ON ALL POTTERY 
minimurn purchase PHONE: 259-0261  $6.00 DAY $8.00 WEEKEND  
STORAGE  
TROPICAL  
GENERAL &  
IOUTIQUE, PLANTERS, DOLLS.  

GAMU & AMUSEMENTS. FESTIVE DICORATIVE. PIISONAL ITPQ NOVELTIES, DICORATIVE PIUOWS, WOODINWAal a IOXES •• ,.u
1

lttQNSI IUINEIS, CANDLES a CANDLE HOlDIIIS. Wt"~D~··· 1.. 
as50111ES, IEDSPIEADS a SOFT GOODS, VASF• _,, 1J DICOIIATIVE METALWARE. FIGU.NIS a ~... 1111 ott\''' \'1 • NAruRAL MA nRIAu. DEcoRAr1v• 1.:. o\~ ~ s•"~ ...c011. 
WHITE PORCELAIN, DINNEI\11..-. ...IIIAMIC
""8 •q 

nw1cE ITEMS. GLAs• • ..,,et '"~...,. \0 • .,.,. H1V1c1 
GlASSWAaE, .,. t8'' • ~v ~ UIVICI, PlACIMATS ~TAILE TOP .-11, "Qt\•.·•1'1 UTILSILS, POTS a PANS, ntnntwv HOtJSE~lEEPING ~ ~..,.UIS, ACCESSOIIIS, 
~--­

-~ 

----~~------------------~-------------~----------------~­
·#· ~ 
0 •••\' •• 

Gulf Oil board chairman resigns 
PITTSBURGH <AP> -Board chairman Bob R. Dorsey of Gulf Oil Corp. resigned under fire Wednesday as directors sought to end the company's political contribution scandal. 
Three other Gulf officers were forced out by the board. They all were mentioned in the investigation of Gulf's illegal contributions that surfaced al­most three years ago when a $100,000 donation to former President Richard Nixon's po­litical campaign came to light. 
Dorsey vowed last June that he would not resign as chief ex­ecutive, a job he had held since 1972, despite board acceptance of a report of Gulf's legal and illegal political contributions made from a slush fund. He has declined comment since that time. 
The 300-page "McCloy Re­port" said that Dorsey "per­haps chose to shut his eyes to what was going on" with the political slush fund. 
There had also been in­
dications that the Mellon fami­
ly, which controls between 15 to 
18 per cent of Gulf stock, want­
ed Dorsey ousted from the na­
tion's seventh largest corpo­
ration. 
"They have got to clean out from the top," one source close to the Mellon family was quoted as saying recently. 
Other officers affected by the shake-up were: Herbert C. Manning, vice president and secretary, who resigned as a Gulf officer but will remain as an employe; William L. Henry, president of the Gulf Oil Real Estate Development Co., who 
Sen.Bayh pushes for new tax cuts 
WASHINGTON (AP) Democratic presidential hopeful Sen. Birch Bayh of Indiana said 
on Wednesday proposals of 
President Ford and Ronald Reagan to cut federal spending smack of political gimmickry and fiscal irresoonsibilitv. 
Instead of cutting the budget, more money should be pumped into the economy to combat the recession, Bayh said. He called for at least $5 billion in new tax cuts. 
On his own campaign, Bayh, one of 11 candidates seeking the Democratic nomination, 
said  he  believes  the  party's  
nominee  will  be  one  who  
emerges  from  the  primary  

route rather than from a bro­kered convention. 
Kissinger goes to Moscow •••• • •• 
(continued from page 1) 
once the Russians come for­oping missiles with independ­ward with a new offer. 
ently targeted warheads, and more recently over the Russian bomber and the Cruise mis­siles. 
The Russians have insisted that the Backfire cannot be considered a strategic weapon and therefore should not be counted against their total. The United States, with consider­able pressure from the Penta­gon, has tried to exclude its low-flying, pilotless Cruise mis­siles which are capable of car­rying nuclear or conventional warheads. 
Kissinger said there now ap­
pears to be "unanimity" within 
the U.S. government and that 
the "Joint Chiefs of Staff are 
signing on" in support of the 
stand he will take in Moscow 
Quality Medical Identification Jewelry 
Beautifully Polished Stainless Steel ID's with Raised Alert Symbol of 18% Nickel-Silver. 
By Health Enterprises 
Available in necklace, fine chain bracelet or heavy chain bracelet. 
MAR-MAIN PHARMACY 426 N. MICHIG 

234 ·-3184 


Soviet and Western sources have indicated over the last six 
•

weeks that the Ford adminis­
•

tration is prepared to exclude 
•

the Backfire bombers provided 
•

they are positioned beyond 
•

striking distance of the United 
•

States and is prepared to ac­cept restrictions on the range •
• 

resigned immediately; and Fred Deering, its senior vice president and secretary, who will remain as an employe until April 15. 
Jerry McAfee, 59, president of Gulf Oil Canada, Ltd., and a Gulf employe for 30 years, was named to succeed Dorsey. 
Neither Dorsey, the other of­ficers, directors nor McAfee were available for comment Wednesday. 
At 63, Dorsey had two years to go before retirement from the company he joined 35 years ago. 
He had stated that he had nothing to do with the slush fund, which dispensed $12.3 mil­lion to politicians from 1960 un­til 1973. 
Meantime, in Washington, Securities and Exchange Com­mission chairman Roderick M. Hills said Wednesday that 30 major U.S. corporations are un­der active investigation for al­leged bribery, kickbacks and il­legal campaign contributions. 
He said an additional 15 cor­porations have made voluntary disclosures of such contribu­tions and that nine others are the subject of civil suits brought by the SEC. 
Hills made the disclosure as Sen. William Proxmire, D-Wis., 
chairman of a congressional Joint Economic Committee sub­committee called for the resig­nation or firing of all corporate officials involved in proven fi­nancial misconduct. 
Hills said that major changes have been made in the account­ing systems of many corpo­rations that concealed illegal payments in their books and of­
ten  hid  them  from  their  own  
auditors.  
Hills  declined  to  give  the  
names  of any of the  total of 45  

corporations that are either being investigated or have vol­untarily disclosed past activi­ties. 
.• • 
• • • • • • • • • 
• • • • • • • 

of sea and air-launched Cruise missiles. 
What college women are being pinned with. 
• • • • • • • e e e e e e e e • e • • • • • • • e • e e • • • e e e e • e e • e e e e •. 
• To the Facuity and Students of the University of Notre Dame: •On December 3, 1975, the undernamed committee was elected by the Academic Council from the •
Council's elected members, to conduct the formal review of the Provost, mandated every five years 
•

by Article II, Section 1, of the Academic Manual. 
•

The Committee hereby Invites you to submit to It, In written form over your signature, any In­formation or assessment which you wish to provide and which you believe would assist It In the task • of evaluating the stewardship of the Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., as Provost. Such letters • should be mailed to 
•
•
Provost Review Committee 
•
Box 744 
•

, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, 
or should be personally handed to any Committee member, by February 2, 1976. The Committee will maintain in complete confidence all communications which it receives. No copies will be made of letters to the Committee, and the Committee's flies will be destroyed after the completion of its !unction. In its report to the President, the Committee will not Include information which would • l~entlfy the source unless It first receives permission from the source to do so. The Committee will • disregard any unsigned communications which It might receive . • 
The Committee expects to complete Its enquiry and make its report to the President within the • Spring.1976 s~mester, but will extend the duration of Its enquiry should this prove necessary. The • Co~m1ttee WII conduct confidential Interviews with persons whom It judges would, by virtue of their positions, be able to provide information highly relevant to Its enquiry. The Committee may also mvlte further persons for interview on the basis of the written communications It receives. 
The Committee believes that the complete confidentiality of Its proceedings Is essential to the •successful execution of Its task. Hence, Its members will Individually provide no information to any •person concerning any activity of the Committee. The only communications will be those made bythe Committee as a whole. 
•
•
Gerald F. Jones • Edward Manier • James L. Massey (Chairman) • Ernan McMullin 
0. Timothy O'Meara : Robert M. Panoff 
•
• 

;'::·_:; ::: :~ :· :· .. 
As a woman ROTC stu. dent, you'll' compete for your commission on the same footing as the men in ¥Our etas-:.. 
There arc 2·yea~. 3·ye:or, ?.ild 4-year sch->larship pro· grams available. A young 
AEROSPACE STUDIES

Put it all together in Pair Force ROTC. 
283-6635
----------==-=--=....:=-=-=-----~ 
woman enrolled in the AFROTC 4-ye·:r program is also qualified to compete for an AFROTC college·­scholarship which will cover the remaining 2 or 3 years :she has as a cadet. Tuition is covered ... all fees paid ... textbook costs re· imbursed ... plus $100 a month allowance, tax-free. 

A woman's place is def. initely in the Air Force and 


Contact:

our pinning ceremony will be the highlight of her col· 


CAPT. M.L. STOCKDALE 

lege experience. 
ASST. PROF. OF 


Thursday, January 1.5, 19?6 th@ .Ob.$.,ryEH' 
9

Made lor sell-defense · · .... ,.... ··'·'·' · · ·· · · · 
Electric dart gun now utilized by criminals 


WASHINGTON <APJ -The inventor of an electric dart gun designed as an alternative to firearms and sold for self de­fense said Wednesday the weapon has been used as much by criminals as by persons pro­tecting themselves from attack. 
John H. Cover, president of Taser Systems, Inc., said he has received reports that his controversial "Taser Public De­fender" has been used at least 20 times, "one half in self de­fense and one half by crooks." 
The Taser. a hand-held de­vice resembling a flashlight, fires two, inch-long barbs con-

Harris challenges Morton job 
WASHINGTON <APJ Democratic presidential candi­date Fred Harris filed a com­plaint with the Federal Election Commission on Wednesday night. asking for an investiga­tion of President Ford's ap­pointment of Rogers C.B. Mor­ton to a White House post with political duties. 
A spokesman for the Harris campaign said Harris called for a "full investigation and full 
disclosure  concerning  the  
mixed  White  House  and  politi­ 
cal duties of  Morton."  

University provost, will be the 
Health Servl•ces compared p~incipal 
celebrant at a Respect

L1fe Mass planned for 8 p.m. 
(continued from page 3) 
Unlike all the other schools 
mentioned, Notre Dame does not 
even make the information 
available to its students. There are 
no pamphlets or booklets of any 
type offered by the university. 
However. S. Dolores does think it 
is a good idea. "After all, the 
students are a captive audience 
when they are in the waiting 
room," Sr. Dolores said. She said 
two years ago, the infirmary did 
have information concerning 
examination for breastcancer, but 
nothing has been done since. 
Besides these inadequacies, one 
student rather summed up a 
popular attitude about the in­
firmary concerning its con­
fidentiality policy. The student 
said, "I would be very hesitant to 
go to the infirmary for any type of 
sexual or gynecological disorder or 
problem." 
She explained, "I feel that there 
is a lack of privacy in the in­
firmary. A woman (or for that 
•
···················+••·························..••····• • 
: 
•
i 
• 
.:•
•
:
• 
•
•
i
•
t 
i •• 
nected to a battery by a 15-foot copper and stainless steel wire. The electric charge that pulses through the wires is sufficient to immobilize a person, but not cause permanent tJamage, Cov­er said. 
Cover met for 75 minutes with staff members of the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Com­mission to review the medical and engineering tests per­formed on the device since he began developing it eight years 
ago. 
The device has law enforce­ment and other government of­ficials nuzzled. The Bureau of 
Ford on Tuesday named the with Cabinet rank, Morton former Commerce secretary a would receive a government counselor on economic and do-salary of $44,600. mestic policy with "incidental "If, as his own comments in­duties of liaison with the Presi-dicate, his primary duties are dent Ford Committee and the to help President Ford's cam-Republican National Com-paign ... he should not be re­mittee." ceiving $46,000 a year as a Cab-
White House spokesman Ron inet-ranked White House offi­Nessen said Morton's political cial," Haris said in the letter to duties would be limited, al-FEC chairman Thomas Curtis. though it had earlier been un­der~tood that .~orton would act Respect Life Mass 
mamly as a ha1son between the White House and Ford's elec-Set "or 'an 25 
lion committee. As a counselor • .II J' • Fr. James T. Burtchaell, 
matter, a man) should not be forced to explain the nature of her illness in the hallway to the nurse." 
Oe student said that is exactly what happened to her when she visited the infirmary to inquire about birth control pills. She said, "I accepted the fact that the Notre Dame infirmary is pesently inadequate to handle such pre­scritpions, but when the nurse referred me to the South Bend Planned Parenthood agenc~ without eveo askirig me into ar, office, I was a bit outraged." 
She added, "If the infirmary is so nonchalant about disucssing personal problems, I can imagine how they respect a stud'enfsfile." 
As one senior woman siad, 
"Notre Dame has certainly 
ignored the needs of its newly-
admitted women when it comes to 
health care services.There is just a 
total lack of understanding when it 
comes to certain matters, 
especially when it concerns the 
'taboo' matter of sexuality." 

•
Let your family know ., : what's going on. i• • •• .. •
• • 
• 

•
Send home The Observer: •
• 
, 


For only $10 a semester 
NAME 



ADDRESS 

Alcohol•. Tobacco ~n~ Firearms has decided that It IS not cov­ered by the federal Gun Control Act of 1~68. . . 
In Cahfo~m~, where It was developed, 1t IS ter!fied a gun and must ~e registered and bear ~ senal number. New York C1ty has ruled that carry­ing a Taser is a crime, as has Canada. 
"The risk of this potentially lethal weapon falling into the hands of criminals is too great to allow it to be sold, manufac­tured or imported into Cana­da," said Canadian Justice Minister Ron Basford, in an­nouncing the decision to ban the Taser. 
Sunday, Jan. 25, in Sacred Heart Church on the campus.
The observance is jointly sponsored by Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Students for LIFE <Life Is For Everyone) and the St. Joseph County of Indiana Right to Life, Inc. 
Joe Corpora serves as chairman of the student group. The public is invited to join in the observance, which asks "that the right to life may be restored to unborn children and life at all stages be respected and revered." 
Jazz band tryouts jSELLERS DROP OFF YOUR USED: to be scheduled ; BOOKS, INCLUDING YOUR : Students interested in ; PRICES. WEDNESDAY JANUARY 5 auditioning for the Notre Dame 
i 14, or THURSDAY JANUARY 15. i ·­
Jazz Bands have been asked to contact band director Fr. George 
5 WE'LL SELL THEM :
Wiskirchen as soon as possible. 
•
The bands are beginning 

i FOR YOU AT NO COMMISSION. ;
rehearsals for the second semester 
...............................................•
and are especially interested in finding new bass players for their 
various combos and two large jazz ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
groups. 
•
• 
.• •
• t •
•

• !• •• •
• 

£ : • 
• : 
i• : : 
lvoloth ~ •til Nr,., )·n·~
HAROLD "A JOY!" 
and 
RUTH GORDON 
-PG­
BUDCORT
MAUDE 
SPECIAL REDUCED PRICE! 

sr•············································
IStu ent Unloni !Book EHchang•(tl 
:OUTSIDE STUDENT GOV'T OFFICE -:i 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE i : STUDENT CENTER. : 
: JANUARY 14 -18 ; 
5 1pm-Spm ! 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
' c
• 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Jeans $3.50 off : 
Jackets 30%-50% off : Shirts 20%-50% off : Slacks 20% off : North Village Mall : 

........................................+................................. ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
-·· 


---~---------------­

10 the observer Thursday, Janoary 15, 1976 


r
• 

Stock up and Save Now on Some Outstanding Calculator 
CASIO fx-20 Scientific. 8-digit por­table has independent memory, trig. square root. A great value! 
LITRONIX 2230. 8­digit, with all basic func­tions plus memory. 
s~a\5 $2288 
LITRONIX 2230R. Same as above, but with AC recharger. 
s~a\5 $2995 
Tl-1500. Complete 4-function SRSOA. Easily solves complex capability, percent key, auto scientific functions. Full func­constant, 8-digit tion slide-rule calculator. Does 
Beg. $39.95 display. it all! Rechargeable.
$:5288 Rechargeable. 
$7995 Beg. $99.95 

E GUAl\AHttt
AYBACR'S fl\lC I" Antl in the event PL stLLS11 LOWER:~!~ ~~!!!~~gaiiy_ "ain~~:~Bf:li NO O~tintl aStereo or 4-C atu\\ two-month perao 'our purchase yohu reo e\se tor \ess -lotrh: tlillerence or relou;n !avertisetl sys· 
w e . \ ake up . h y ol our a·t&l11'
wi\\ qutck y II\ ho\tls true wit ai IS ALWAYS P • price.l;e ~UYBAtl, TIE PRIC ~~ tems. sALE ENDS 
LITRONIX 2240. Ht>rnrnlrrrh 8-digit eleven-function with on/off keys, auto shutoff, B $ auto constant. $ 29 ~/s 2288 
LITRONIX 2240R. Identical to 2240, but with rechargeable capabilities. A great 
and Tape Buys! 
LITRONIX 2260. The unique slide-rule calculator. Has auto ex­ponential notation, store-recall-memory, re­chargeable. 
LITRONIX 22708. 
Beg. Statistical data at your
$49.95 fingertips! Fully re­
chargeable.
$3995 
s!9~9s $3995 
Reg.  4For  
C-60 Album Box  $2.39  $695  
C-90 Album Box  3.59  $995  
C-120 Album Box  4.79  SJ295  
45-Min. 8-Tr.  2.59  $749  
60-Min. 8-Tr.  2.79  $849  
90-Min. 8-Tr.  2.89  $895  
7"xl800' Open Reel  6.99  SJ795  

I0¥2"x3600' Open Reel 18.99 •s995 

817 W. McKINLEY MISHAWAKA (COLLEGE SQUARE) 








PLAYBACK
PHONE 256-1514 
FIRST COME, 
~G~cti 
FIRST SERVE -A Quality Company of Hydrometals. Inc. QUANTITIES LIMITED 


·';p I
' '·'"J 't/.., <'f -~ ,.., C.· ' ~ ..' ·. 
• ' • \ • • •, •. I I ' 

Thursday, January 15, 1976 the observer 1 1 
Spring training may be delayed 
PHOENIX <AP> -Commis­the Giants and Oakland A's league franchise in the future. At least one franchise prob­formality to close a deal nego­sioner Bowie Kuhn indicated competing for crowds, is over-Kuhn brushed off a report in lem was solved Wednesday tiated last month, was an­Wednesday that baseball's populated. Wednesday's edition of the when the National League ap­nounced. spring training will not start "I think two teams in the Washington Star that he would proved the sale of the Atlanta But the Toronto group hoping until owners and players reach area is excessive," he said. resign unless baseball sup-· Braves to millionaire yacht­to buy the San Francisco Gi­a contract agreement. Kuhn, a practicing lawyer be-ported his long effort to return sman Ted Turner. ants and move them to Canada 
"There are no definite dates fore becoming commissioner, a team to the nation's capital. "I'm in," said Turner after next season remained out in the 
for the start of spring train­also remarked that the suit "I would only tell something approval, considered a mere cold. ing," Kuhn said at a meeting of brought in Seattle seeking dam-like that to my wife," he said. owners. ages for ·the loss of an Ameri-Morris Siegel, a Star colum­~
,............................. 
Most teams had announced can League franchise in 1970 nist, reported that Kuhn told a earlier that opening dates "doesn't bother or impress congressional committee of his would be in late February. me." threat to resign. The committee 
: Applications are being : 
The basic agreement with the He added, however, that he is demanding a replacement for Players' Association expired felt Seattle would be an ex-the Senators who moved to • 
Dec. 31. The 11th meeting in a cellent location for a major Texas in 1971. • accepted for position of ••series of negotiations is sched­
ul~'~h~r A~~~rs~:S~ersmith case State GOP backs 
• • was discussed extensively," • h • 
Kuhn said after a joint meeting Campalgn C ange • Observer : 
of American and National League owners. INDIANAPOLIS <AP> -The Messersmith, Los Angeles R~publican State Cen~~al Com­
: News Editor :
Dodgers pitching star, chal-mtttee supports a modtfted elec­lenged baseball's reserve t~m. pract~ce~ .bill th~t remov~s • •clause by refusing to sign a hmtts on mdtvtdual gtfts, Chair­contract for last season and man Thomas S. Milligan said 
: Apply in person :
last month was declared a free Wednesday. agent by a baseball arbitrator. The bill was stripped of lim­The owners have a court suit its on individual donations by pending in Kansas City which the Senate Elections Com­: at The Observer office : 
they hope will uphold the mittee. Contributions by corpo­legality of the reserve clause. rations and labor organizations 
: third floor of LaFortune :
Kuhn said he hoped for a set-would be limited to $3,000 a tlement with the players soon, year for statewide candidates • •"but the matter is not resolved and $1,000 a year for candi­and I won't be satisfied until it dates for local office. 
: Deadline: 5 p.m. Friday i
is." He said the committee oposes 
Asked about the proposed a bill eliminating the require­move of the San Francisco Gi-ment to declare party affilia­ants to Toronto, the commis-lion when voting in a primary sioner said, "we'll have to see election. Experience in other how the litigation works out." states has shown that such laws 
He reiterated that he felt the lead to abuses of the primary San Francisco Bay Area, with syst~m. Milligan said. 
Jehovah's Witnesses must 

$AYE
allow blood transfusion 
WITH THESE 
CINCINNATI (AP> A to lawyers for the hospital. Hamilton County judge has or­There was some improve 
MONEY SAYING
dered a young Jehovah's Wit­mt>nt after the hospital gavt ness to receive the blood trans­her dialysis but her conditior. 
COUPONS THRU
fusion that doctors claim is became more severe, with needed to keep her alive. some loss of blood, increasing 
Judge William McClain ruled strain on her circulatory sys­Jan. 18 Tuesday that General Hospital tem and requiring transfusions had the authority to give what­to prevent possible death, ac­ever transfusions are needed to cording to a doctor. keep Robin Broach alive until Miss Broach was in fair con· such time as she regains suf­dition Wednesday. 

ficient strength to defend her­
self against the court order if 
she wishes. 
Doctors said without the 
blood or a blood product, the 
19-year-old Cincinnati woman 
could die from shock or a lack 
of oxygen. 
Both Miss Broach and her 
mother refused to allow the 
transfusion on religious 
grounds. Although hospital offi­
cials say they doubt Miss 
Broach's ability to make a de­
cision at this time because of 
her weakened condition, they 
are powerless to give the trans­
fusion without court approval 
and without also risking court 
action in the future. 
Miss Broach was admitted to 
General Hospital on December 
26, acutely ill of chronic renal 
failure, with uremia, according 
Feminist leader to speak Sunday 
Patricia Goltz, international 
president of Feminists for Life, 
will speak at the St. Mary's 
Clubhouse on Sunday, Jan. 18, at 
3:30p.m. The topic of Goltz' ad­
dress will be "The Essence of the 
Truly Liberated Woman." 
Goltz was a member of the 
Columbus, Ohio, chapter of Na­
tional Organization for Women 
<NOW>, the nation's largest 
feminist organization. She was, 
however, expelled for her out­
spoken pro-life views and founded 
another feminist group which has 
similar goals as NOW but is anti­
abortion. 
The public is invited to the ad­. dress and there is. no . admission 
~H8r"ge ~ ' f/ ' • " .. r ... II • , ••• ' ... ' " 
·;.
Classified Ads 3 LOCATIONS TO SERVE YOU 
NOTICES 710 W. McKINLEY AVE.-MISHAWAKA 
IBM Selectric II typing, student (Town & CouRtry Shopping Center)
rates, dissertations; Linda's Letters; 289-5193. 
1702 S. MICKIGAN -SOUTH BEND 
ND-SMC Council for the Retarded 
Sat. rec. begins this Sat... 9am 1807 LINCOLNWA Y EAST -SOUTH BEN 
For info, call Tom Horbln 287.66n or Cathy McGlynn 288-4315. 
FOR SALE 
YOUR KIND OF PEOPLE Serious high.fldellty sound systems to keep you loose, yet at a price that won't get you up tight. Stereo Components 20-40 percent Discount RMS Audio 321 s. Main South Bend, Ind. 
COUCHES .. $20 -$30. Free delivery to dorm. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004 
WANTED 
Will pay big bucks for two UCLA tickets. Please Help! Call Jim 8950. 
Need 4 tickets to Maryland game. Call Mike after 6 p.m. 288-0088. 
Female housemate wanted to share house 2'12 blocks from Angela-Notre Dame Ave. in­tersection. Call 289-4303 between 5p.m. and 10p.m. 
Wanted: six tickets tor Maryland· NO basketball game Jan. 31. Call Mike or Ann after 6 p.m. at 272­5884. 
FOR RENT 
Rent my upstairs for $50 a month. 
233-1329. ....... I I I I I I \ ! t 0 !' , .. ! 't'• r, ··,···~ t ... 
0 1 

___,............. 

12 the observer 
'Tired' Irish lay Cardinals to rest 
. · k 10 streak, with Duck Williams 
111 8 wts mg d
bY 8 rm·t turmng· m· severaI t · t' rives· 
bk

Sporst Ed1or to the as et and Dantley· con­necting on some offensive reboung ·' · -grueling twenty-one hour goals. Leading 97-65 with 7:02 left 
.. -'rip from Pittsburgh that in the game, Phelps began to 
6:00 a.m. Tuesday empty the bench. included no less than two 
"They are a hell of a ball club," in Cleveland and•; a 
said State coach Jim Holstein. Chicago, and finally got 
"Notre Dame played aggressive ' South Bend at 3:00 a.m. 
and that is what it takes to win. .•· -Jay morning, the Irish Our shooting has carried us in di, · · of Ball State last night in 
other games but it left us tonight. iitl i, . 0re time than it takes to We are usually not a bad 
load the baggage. rebounding team, but we were Ir. _ ·d. the airlines proved to be killed on the boards. Playing the tougher test for Digger Phelps 
Notre Dame has got to help us in sqmHl as they combined good 
the Mid-American Conference." movemE'nt and torrid shooting to swamp the Cardinals 119-78 before High scorer for the Cardinals ;1 t:ro•. d of 11,345 in the Notre 
was forward Pete Kuzma, who !JamE' /\CC. The point total was 
came off the bench to score fifteen <he lnsh·s highest of the year, the 
points. Boarden added fourteen previous high being a 117 point and Hahn totaled twelve. Duck 
output against Valparaiso. Williams followed Dantley and Although is was the Irish who Batton in the Irish scoring column were supposed to be tired after. 
with twelve points. Ray Martin 
their day-long excursion, it was hitting on some spinning drives t~ State which finally succumbed to the basket and having a perfect weariness. Phelps, as he has done 
night at the foul line, notched ten all year.shuffled his players in and points. Toby Knight, Paterno, out. keeping them fresh and Bruce Flowers and Randy 
allowing them to maintain an Haefner all had eight. Dave aggresive style of pl~y that left the 
Kuzmicz scored three points while Cardinals lagging. 
Myron Schuckman and Roger Anderson had two apiece. Dantley"It was strange because people tied Batton for the re~ounding leadtelt we were going to get tired," by pulling down nine caroms.
said Phelps. "But we kept changing personell and finally rebounds. Bill Paterno also played and put in six points in the last two Dantley and Batton continued to The win upped the Irish record to wore them dowm." well in his conversion back to the minutes to give the Irish a 56-41 be hot at the start of the second 8-3 for the season while Ball State 
Not -surprisingly, it was All­forward position, which Phelps halftime lead. half and they propelled the Irish to dropped to a 6-5 mark. Saturday dictated in order to make up for a 67-47 lead with 2:40 gone in the 
Notre Dame travels to Cincinatti,American forward Adrian Dantley Phelps, meanwhile, had picked Ohio to face Xavier University.
Laimbeer's absence. Rencher period. Teey then rattled off a 20­
who paced the Irish attack, scoring up a technical due to his protests
kept the game moving with skillful 
33 points on 13 of 19 from the field about what he believed to be and 7 of 9 from the free throw line. overly-rough coverage of Dantley
ballhandling and some fine passes, and put in eight points as well.
Dantley dominated the offensive by the Cardinals. Dantley was also
"It was good to see Bernard and
boards and capitalized with a hit with a technical in the second
Billy get their game going so
number of layups. He was also the half when he vocalized similar
well," said Phelps. "They make a
recipient of some dazzling protestations to the referee. 
*Observer
solid contribution to the ballclub.
assists, most notably from 
"A.D. got knocked down in the

Paterno was back at forward, evenfreshman guard Bernard Rencher. 
first half," explained Phelps. "It

though he started at guard, and he 
"We moved around well was similar to how he got hurt last 
playeded well there. Dave
:onight," said Dantley. "They year when he caught five stitches
<Batton) was very physical on the 
were in a man-to-man defense all and a broken nose. I'm going to
boards which is what he's got tonight and Bernard really played a 



Sports
protect him if the ref doesn't see it,

be."
good game and had some great The game was close throughout · even if it means getting a passes. I was tired, physically, but the first seven minutes as both technical." 
mentally I was ready to play." 

teams displayed accurate "There was a lot of contact offJust that fact was bad news for shooting. Then, with 13:08 left in the ball," added Dantley, "but youthe Cardinals, but the rest of the the half and the Irish up 18-16, ND have to expect that."
teams' play made it fatal. Though gained the advantage. Dantley hit playing without the services of three straight baskets, two onfreshman center Bill Laimbeer, beautiful passes from Rencher and 
Parseghian announces
who is academically ineligible for one after he had stolen an in­the semester by University bounds pass. Williams then added standards. the Irish compensated two quick buckets and Notre Dame for the loss through some fine had a 28-16 advantage with 11:01 
plans lor upcoming year
individual pertormances. 

remaining. Randy BoardenMost impressive was sophomore retaliated for the Cardinals with 
by Fred Herbst

center Dave Batton, who poured in some lay-ups, and Jim Hahn and 17 points and completed a fine Larry Heinbaugh connected from 
When Ara Parseghian resigned

night under the boards with nine the outside but Dave Batton got hot as head football coach at Notre Dame last December, he didn't retire. 
Despite the fact that he hasn't returned to coaching, Parseghian has been busy with a number of business enterprises, the most recent being a sports-()riented television show that he will host. 
Jhe show, "Ara's World of Sports," will appear for 26 weeks beginning this fall. The program will feature 11 to 17-year-()lds competing in different sports and receiving instruction from a guest professional athlete along with Parseghian. Sports ranging from rodeo riding to golfing will be featured in the half-hour shows. 

The program will be shown on a syndicated network across the nation and is being produced by I Viacom Enterprises. At present, Parseghian plans to film only 26 programs. But should the show be a success, it could continue in· definitely. 
Form~r Notre Dame football coach Ara Parseghian has spurned pro
Parseghian, along with former 

coa~htng ~ffers to host a sports show and continue work in his other 
Notre Dame assistant coach Tom 

busmess mterests. · 
Pagna, also has an insurance 

Parseghian Enterprises to handle Parseghian resigned following
business in South Bend known as 

all of his personal appearances and the 1974 season due to poor health, 
Ara Parseghian and Associates. 

speaking engagements. He also but indicated that he may be in­
He has been involved in this since 

spends a great deal of time terested in returning to coaching
last July and plans to continue in 

travelling and working to raise after sitting out the 1975 season.
the field. 

funds to fight multiple sclerosis. However, he hasn't re-entered
The former Irish head coach is 

Regarded as one of the out-coaching, turning down at least
also making television com­

standing coaches in college foot-one professional offer from the
mercials for the Ford Motor 

ball, Parseghian left Notre Dame New York Jets. He said that his
Company as well as doing public 

after 11 years. He compiled a 95·17-health was not a factor in his
relations work for several com­

4 record, won national cham-decision not to coach, and in­panies.
Bernard Rencher leaps high to defend against Ball State's Jim Hahn. pionships in 1966 and 1973 and was dicated that he may be interested 
Parseghian has also created Ara 

voted Coach of the Year twice. in coaching after next season . 




.. 



