Mishawaka move planned 
Sears announces downtown store closing 
by Patrick Cole Senior StaH Reporter 

The Sears Roebuck and Co. has decided to close its store in South Bend at 411 S. Lafayette because of "poor experiences" and to open a new one at University Park Mall in Mishawaka, according to the South Bend Tribune yesterday. 
The Marchmont Kovas story in yester­day's edition of the Tribune reported that South Bend Mayor Peter J. Nemeth had been called by Arthur M. Wood, Sears chairman of the board, late Monday. Nemeth quoted Wood as saying that Sears has had poor experiences in downtown locations in other cities and does not want to take that risk with a new store in South Bend. 
B. L. Wade, manager of the South Bend Store, announced in a press conference on Monday afternoon that the company will open the new store in 1979 at the mall located at Grape and Ind. 23. The area was recently annexed by Mishawaka. 
Wade also indicated that the present store building, which is owned by Sears, will eventually be sold, and ground will be broken for the new store in about six months. It will take about a year to construct the new two-story building. 
"After the most thorough consideration and review of the proposal for the downtown structure and location, we have concluded that the interests of our cus­tomers, as well as our employers and stockholders, will be best served by building a new store at University Park Mall," Wade said in a story by James W ensits of the Tribune. 
Nemeth expresses disappointment 
Nemeth expressed disappointment about the Sears Roebuck and Co. decision. "We gave it our best shot, and lost," the Tribune reported him saying at a news conference. 
Nemeth will now put "heavy emphasis" on attracting employers and developers that are service-oriented instead of retail businesses. He added that it is unfor­tunate that "a decision of this magnitude affecting our downtown was made by a corporation outside our own state.'' 
Nemeth's plan is called ''City in a Box,'' which will aim at luring new businesses here in South Bend. Hope for its success lies in the close relationship between the Downtown Development Committee and South Bend 2000, Inc., 13 local businesses that had "proposed to provide the finan-


MONTREAL [AP]-Speculation and concern about the future of Canada swept the country yester­day after the election victory of the pro-separatist Parti Quebecois in Quebec provincial elections. 
A number of politicians and business leaders called for a quick referendum on independence for the French-speaking province to get the question settled. Others said the Quebec electorate had merely been turning out a govern­ment they didn't like rather than voting for independence. 
Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau told the Parliament in Ottawa that the federal govern­ment will not negotiate any form of separation with Quebec or any other province but offered to have an early meeting with Rene Lev­esque, the 54-year-old Parti Que­becois leader and future premier. 
"We have only one mandate," Trudeau declared. "That is to govern the whole country.'' 
Levesque has promised a referen­dum on secession within two years. 
Though once considered a radical, Levesque assured Canadians that there will be "no Berlin Wall on the Ottawa River" and generally cam­paigned on the alleged economic failures of Premier Robert Bouras­sa's Liberal government. 
When counting stopped Monday night, the Parti Quebecois, or Pequistes, had won 66 of the 110 seats in the National Assembly ­the Quebec legislature -and was leading for three others. The Liberals had 27 seats and were leading for one more. In the last assembly there were 102 Liberals and six Pequistes. 
The Union Nationale party, which ruled Quebec from 1944 to 1970, staged a resurgence and won 11 seats. The Creditiste and Popular National parties won one seat each. 
The Parti Quebecois received about 41 per cent of the popular vote; the Liberals got 34 per cent; Union Nationale took 18 per cent; and minor parties got the rest. 
This meant 59 per cent of the popular vote went to antiseparatist parties, and opinion polls before the election indicated only about 20 per cent of the voters were diehard separatists. 
Many observers interpreted this to mean that secession will be voted down whenever a referen­dum is held. 
But to the crowds of Pequistes who celebrated in the Montreal streets and mobbed Levesque at party headquarters early Tuesday, their victory seemed complete. 
"We shall have the Quebec of which our ancestors dreamed," declared one jubilant rally speaker, referrring to New France's defeat by the British some 200 years ago. 
Levesque, a former broadcast journalist who quit the Liberal party in 1967 to campaign for Quebec independence said he hoped Quebec would become an "adult society" by voting for independence.· 
cing for the $50-$60 million downtown enclosed mall." 
"From that unity will come strength; it has the resources," said George A. Wing, chairman of Nemeth's Downtown Devel­opment Committee. 
Side effects 
According to the Tribune, the employees of the present store will be transferred to the new one, and additional jobs will result from the increased facilities. 
Wade said the local residents have shown interest which "has been gratify­ing'' to Sears, although he realized the disappointment of the advocates of the Downtown Shopping Mall supported by Nemeth. 
Mishawaka -Mayor Margaret H. Prickett expressed pleasure about the Sears move. She indicated that one of the side effects will be the action by South Bend residents to keep sears in the downtown area. She also maintained that the side effects of business benefit the entire Michiana area, not just the local a 
Prickett added that the major benefit to Mishawaka will be the eventual effect on the tax rate. 
Furthermore, there was no comment from a Sears official in Niles about the future operation of the store there since the Sears store would be closing in South Bend. The Tribune reported there had been rumors that the Niles store would be affected. 
Also there has been speculation that the downtown store in Niles might be used as a catalogue outlet while the new store in the University Park Mall would serve this entire Michiana region. 
J. C. Penny's affected 
South Bend Mayor Nemeth observed that the Sears decision will mean that J. C. Penny's will also move out of the downtown South Bend area. However. Jack Buffington, manager of the local Penney's, said, "Only our real estate department knows.'· Local store decisions for Penney's are made bv the Central Region Office in Chicago. ­
The Tribune reported that Penney's may not be in a hurry to leave since the company has a lease on its present building for the next five years, expiring on Dec JI. 1981. 
Concerning the Penney's store in Nile'>. the Tribune has learned that plans arc "moving ahead" in Niles for a move of Pennev's from its downtown location to the East Gate Shopping Center. 


server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol XI, No. 50. Wednesday, November 17, 1976 
Poor communication cited 
Mix-up causes Form 50's delays 
by Don H. Reimer Copy Editor 
Sophomores in several halls did not receive their Form 50s until late Sunday night or Monday morning because of poor communication between the University Registrar's Office and hall mail clerks. 
According to University Regis­trar Richard Sullivan, the forms were available to the mailmen at mid-afternoon on I;riday, but sev­eral of the hall mail-clerks said yesterday that they were unaware they were to pick up the forms on Friday afternoon. Although ap­proximately ten clerks did get the sophomore forms on Friday, many of the forms were delivered Sunday night under the direction of the Ombudsman. 
Sullivan said his staff had in­formed the clerks that the sopho­more forms should be picked up Friday, but all of the clerks contacted denied this. 
The clerks picked up the senior Form 50s on Friday, Nov. 5 and the junior forms on the following Monday. One clerk said he was told to ~·come back Monday for the rest of the forms'' when he got the senior forms. When he stopped Monday for the junior Form 50s, he asked if that was all of the forms and was told "yes." He said he 
1 

was not informed that the sopho-·~· more forms were separated from the others. 
"I know for a fact that no one ever told me to come back on Friday," h.e said. 
A south quad clerk, who normal­ly makes his pick-up on Friday afternoon, did get his hall's sopho­more forms. He said, however, he never received any special message to pick-up the forms. 
Another clerk said that when he picked-up the forms for the juniors at 8 a.m. on Monday, a representa­tive of the Registrar's Office was in the campus mailroom and told him that the sophomore forms would come in "next week" but did not tell him to return at any sp~cific time. 
Sullivan said the Pangborn mail clerk called him on Friday morning and asked ·to pick-up the forms then. The forms were given to him on the condition that he not distribute them before the after­noon. 
''I went there (mail room) Friday morning at the usual time," said another clerk, "and they (forms( weren't there. There was never any word about picking up the 
sophomore forms.'' 
Teresa Sullivan, a Walsh junior and Ombudsman staff member, said she was informed about 4 p.m. Sunday that the Ombudsman had 

received several calls from sopho­1 mores worried about the forms. After calling the registrar and 
. discovering that the forms were in the mail room. Sullivan informed Walsh Rector Sr. Kathleen Ross­man of the problem. Rossman made several phone calls in an attempt to get into the Administra­tion Building and the mailroom. At 9 p.m .. Sr. John Miriam Jones opened the building and a student mailroom employee opened the room. Rossman said fifteen volunteers from Walsh and Farley then deli­vered the forms at 10 P·'?· Sunday I[continued on page 2j 

, 
' 
. 


The 'Indiana Banana' story is told on p. l. 
------------~--­
... ' 
r 
Wednesday, November 17, 1976 
2 the observer 

----~~~~~~~----------------------­
On Campus Today_---..... 
3 pm-career workshop, "assertiveness training," by dr. susan areson, smc. rm 170, lemans hall 
3:25pm-lecture, "kinetics of cellulose combustion as influenced by diffusional parameters," by dr. a. murty kanury, n.d. rm 269 chem. eng. bldg. 
3.30 pm-lecture, "it doesn't 'add' up: the role of human rPsource accounting in effecting work human­llation," by dr. ken milani, c.p.a., n.d. rm 122, hayes healy 
4 lO pm -reilly lectures, "trimethylenemethanes, a new class of reactive intermediates," by prof. jerome a. bt>rson. rm 123, nieuwland science hall 
'l -b lO pm ~ balloting, "biggest turkey on campus" contest. one pt•nny buys one vote. n.d. dining halls 
') l'i Jllll -mass, for all world hunger coalition tasters, walsh chapel. everyone welcome 
6 00 pm -film, "the food crisis," following the 5:15 mass, in walsh chapel 
6. 10 pm -career workshop, "skill identification," by karen o'neil, smc. 2nd floor, holy cross hall 
7 00 pm -meeting, senior class trip information, washington hall 
7 (X) pm -meeting, general meeting of cip students. 118 o'shag 
7. .!0 & film, "the man who shot liberty valance." eng. aud. 10:00 pm-tickets $1 
7 30 pm-american scene, "the student as king: an epistemo­logical reversal," by robert m. barry, Ioyoia univ. ci-Jicago. carroll hall 
lecture, dan devine, question and answer session, grace hall pit 
8 00 pm­

8 15 pm-concert, katherine glaser, piano. lib. aud. 
Problems with registration explained by registrar 

[continued from page 1) night. She estimated that ten to fifteen halls did not receive their forms until Sundav. According to the registrar. the practil'C of withholding the sopho­more forms until Friday was begun three years ago. at the recommen­dation of a student committee. to encourage adherence to the regis­tration schedule. Sullivan said the people handing out cards in the departments did not check the forms dose enough to prevent students from obtaining cards ahead of schedule, so the stagger-
Work lectures 
continue today 
Dr. Ken Milani, C.P.A., assis­tant professor of accounting, will discuss "It Doesn't Add Up: The Role of Human Resource Accoun­ting in Effecting Work Humaniza­tion" during a talk at 3:30 pm Wednesday. Nov. 17. 
The program in the auditorium of Hayes-Healy Center is part of the design of Humanistic Work lecture series. financed by a grant from the Sperry and Hutchinson Company, and is open to the public. 
The author of several articles on taxation and accounting, Milani ha~ been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since Jq72. He has been the recipient of Fellowships from both the Haskins and Sells Foundation and the American Ac­nmnting Association, and is a member of the American Taxation Association. American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the National Association of Accoun­tants. 
Previous speakers in the lecture series have included Dr. John Ryan of St. Anselm's College; Dr. Stanis­lov Kasl of Yale University; Ted Mills, director of the National Quality Work Center, Washington, D.C.; Drs. William Sexton and John Houck of Notre Dame; Dr. David Bowers, program director for the University of Michigan's Cen­ter for Research on Utilization of Scientific Knowledge, and Irving Blueston, vice president of the United Auto Workers Internation­al, Detroit. 

ing procedure was instituted. 
This year. sophomores who wish to select a checkmark course in the College of Arts and Letters must procure the class card at Stepan Center on Wednesday, Nov. 17, so the delay in distribution of the forms did not hinder most sopho­mores in registering. Arts and Letters Pre-professional students, however, did have to obtain their cards for lab on Monday. 
One such student from Stanford, whose sophomores did not receive their cards until late Monday morning. commented, "Some peo­ple had problems and didn't get the labs they wanted." 
Another sophomore from Kee­nan said he had no actual problems 
in  registering,  "just  worry  and  
frustration."  
"It  was  unfair  to  people  who  
didn't  have  them  on  time  and  

caused many people anxiety," one student said. 
Hot air balloon to highlight Homecoming 1976 this weekend 

by Mike Towle Staff Reporter 

A Friday night dance, hot air balloon, cheerleader poster contest and Doobie Brothers Concert are only several of the many attractions which highlight this year's Home­coming Weekend according to Chairperson Nancy Budds. 
The festivities begin on Thurs­day and will continue on through early Sunday morning with every­thing centered around the Miami football game. 
The theme of Homecoming Jq76 is "Around The World In 80 Days," a theme that was contribut­ed by Jill Pascuzzo. a roommate of Budds. "It is a workable title and is unique in .that it lends itself to the idea of the hot air balloon,'' the chairperson explained. 
The hot air balloon that Budds referred to is arr eight-story tall contraption that is being construct­ed by Peter Krieg and a crew of about ten helpers. The yellow balloon has been adorned with the name "Indiana Banana." It will be 


You cantoo! 
Call:{219)234·3515
What youhear maychange your life' 
on the stadium parking field across from senior bar between 4:30 and 5 
p.m. on Friday afternoon, if the weather permits. 
The dance is also scheduled for Friday and will begin at 9 p.m. in Stepan Center. ''Catch will be the featured band at the dance," Budds added. "They just recently signed with London Records and arc a big and upcoming group." Budds also stated that although it costs $5 per couple, it is not strictly a couples dance. 
"I'd like to think of the dance as an 'informal formal' where groups of people can come and just have a good time," she stressed. "Food. and other refreshments will be provided. Tickets arc on sale at the Student Union offices." 
Two different happy hours will be included in the weekend's activities. The first will be on Thursday lft The Library from 4 to 7 
p.m. 
with the second one to be held after the Miami game from 4 to 7 

p.m. 
at Fat Wally's. Thursday's happy hour will feature drinks at half-price while Saturdays will have 


80-cent beer pitchers and 30-eent hot dogs, Budds related. 
A hall decoration contest and cheerleader poster contest are to be judged at 3 p.m. on Friday. Although Budds is disappointed with the lack of interest about the former, she is optimistic that both will be a success. 
"Applications for the cheerlead­er poster contest must be filled out with the Student Government sec­retary by noon Friday," Budds indicated. "A prize of $30 will be awarded to the best poster, but it must be related to the Homecom­ing theme of the Miami football game." 
In regards to the football game, Budds stated that there will be a Miami pep rally at 7 p.m. on Friday. but will be held in the ACC instead of Stepan Center because of the dance. 
Following Saturday night's Doobie Brothers concert, an after concert party will be held in the Nazz beginning at 10:30 p.m. and will continue into early Sunday morning. 
Budds emphasized that the dining hall supper with an interna­tional flavor which was slated for Wednesday, will be on Thursdav instead b~cause of a mix-up i~ planning with the dining hall staff. 
Breitenstein replaces Reher 
Barbara Breitenstein, a junior American Studies major from Kan­sas City, Kansas has been ap­pointed news editor of The Obser­ver. She replaces Mary Reher who resigned last week. 

--~~----------------------------------------------------,
'. 

Wednesday, November 17, 1976 the observer 
3 

Presidents' Council holds omnibus meeting 
by Tom Byrne Senior Staff Reporter 

The Hall Presidents Council was informed last night that the Stu­dent Union is "evaluating" the merits of armory parties, because of recent difficulties associated with the events. 
Mary Charchut, administrative coordinator of the Student Union, distributed a survey designed to assess student attitudes about var­ious activities sponsored by the organization. She noted that a decision to discontinue the parties had not been made yet. 
"If there is a strong desire for the campus to have them, then we'll reconsider having them," said C~archut. "We've had a little bit of the problem with the armory, in fact the past two armories. We lost $1200 on one of them." 
Rossen defends Trustee presentation 
In another matter, HPC Chair­man J.P. Russell defended the presentation made by student gov­ernment officials last week to a committee of the Board of Trustees. 
"I was quite impressed with the presentation," declared Russell. "Contrary to what you read in The 
Senior Death March scheduled this week 
by Alicia Denefe Staff Reporter 

Plans have been finalized for the Senior Death March. Chairman of the event, Jim Wolf. stated "All the bars and the police are being very cooperative." 
"If an::thing happens, it will cancel others in the future," he 
said.  "and  we  want  this  Death  
M arch to be the best!"  
The activities will begin  at  Fat  

Wally's at noon on Friday, Nov.l9. Pitchers of beer for $.77 and hot dogs for $.15 will be featured at Fat Wally's until l :45 p.m. 
year. exchanging ideas." He predicted 
will meet behind The Library in the r.fo • l
Following Fat Wally's, seniors ······················~···--. 
r;;k~~~;~~~~!.will 
proceed into 

senior tn·p
Seniors will then head toward 
~o;~~~~ ~~~ ~h~~-~~ ~~~1!~!e~st a~ 
until 6 p.m. Corby's and Brid­gette's will feature $.35-beer and at 
Nickie's it will cost the seniors $.~~11owing the afternoon activi­
ties, seniors will meet at the ACC, 
entering at Gate Three, for the Senior's Last Rally. This event will be held on the track at 6 p.m. 
Wolf hopes there will be no 
problems. "We are stressing
order... he said. "If anyone is caught doing any damage. that individual will pay for it. If damage does occur and no one individual is l 
responsible for it, the Senior class will take full responsibility," Wolf 
stated.
Two years ago, the University said absolutely that no Death Mar~h could take place. However, "this year they're taking a neutral stand on it," Wolf said. "Dean Roemer neither condemns or ap­proves of the Death March. If they approved it, the University would be liable." 
"Policemen will be patrolling the area," Wolf continued, "and he asks that no student give them any trouble. They don't want it and we don't want it. They are there for our safety." The police can and will arrest students for drunk and disorderly l;Jehavior." 
"Wetriedto apply for a 'Parade Permit'," Wolf said, "but we didn't have time, and they wanted $300.00 liability bond. We couldn't 
Sec'y. Kissinger
.,. ­pledges support 
for Pres. Carter 
WILLIAMSBURG, Va. -Secre­

tary of State Henry A. Kissinger 
yesterday pledged to support 
American foreign policy under 
President-elect Jimmy Carter. 
The secretary said "I cannot 

fully speak for the policies of the 
forthcoming administration. Nev· 
ertheless the basic foreign policy of 
the United States has always been 
treated as non-partisan." Kis­
singer then added that "you can be 
certain" that the basic thrust of 
American policy "will be supported afford it." 
Wolf asked students to be careful and considerate in crossing streets, especially at the "six-corner" area. 
"We don't want any students stopping traffic," he said. 
"If there is any trouble, it will put a damper on further acti­vities," Wolf stated. "We want evervone to have fun. but keep within the limits." 
Wolf is happy with the Senior Class participation this year and feels "we've had a lot of fun and have had no trouble." He hopes that will continue throughout the Observer, I thought the students made a good presentation." Russell conceded that he may be "a little biased" since he partici­pated in the program with other student leaders. 
"I told them what the HPC was and what we're here for," he explained. 
The council devoted much of last night's meeting to the results of the recent Alcohol Awareness Semi­nar. HPC Secretary Mary McCor­mick presented a report on the conference, which was chaired by 
J.P. Russell. 
Among the proposals mentioned in the report were a uniform disciplinary policy regarding alco­hol violations, a de-emphasis of alcohol at social events, and the formation of a rector's council. 
"I think it would really help the rectors to get together and discuss mutual problems,'' said McCor­mick. "When somebody breaks the rules it's handled in so many different ways. depending on the circumstances. I really think it would be a good idea for the rectors 
to form a council." 
Russell commented that a meet­ing Monday night with social commissioners from several halls had been helpful in communicating the goals of the conference. 
"I think two important things happened last night," Russell re­marked. "The social commission­ers recognized their responsibility to do something about the alcohol issue, and they recognized the value of getting together and 
• 

IDf0 
t • t
ODI e 
7:00 pm 
wash•Ington ha II 
'1111111............................... 

n 
John Wahman 
Agent 


Karen Wentland 
Agent 

Diane Long 

'll·araftt·r \l'ar. 
I ~l'llll'~t t•r'aftl'r 
~t·nw~tt•r. tlw 
( 'ollt•gt•\ la~h.•r 
from Fidt•lih 
l ·nion I.ift• lia~ 
ht•t·n tlw nh,...,, 
at'l'l'j)lt'tl. llHI"t 
popular plan on 
_rampu~ott•..., all m t•r ..\nwrka. 
Find out"In. 
(·all tht• 
Fidl'lih l'nion 
( 'ollt•gt•\ la~tt'r 
.Fil'ld ..\~~oriatt• 
111 \our arl'a: 
91 '> l:. \ Cedar South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 

J 
~ 

· · · · · · · '­
party." _________________...,.____,
by the main line of the Republican .· . A.ger:'t .-<··,.:_,. ::,.->~, 
that the meetings might become regular events next semester. 
Several hall presidents com­mented on the seminar's findings and on efforts in their halls to fulfill its goals. 
Farley Hall President Tracy Kee disagreed with the report's charac­terization of student social life as "poor." Compared to other col­leges, she noted, the social situa­tion at Notre Dame is "not that bad." Russell agreed, adding that "it's actually better than most." 
Flanner President Mark Eck cited his hall's recent "computer dating" night with Regina Hall from St. Mary's as a successful social event without an emphasis on alcohol. "It was one of the best times I've seen people have at Notre Dame," he said, ''and all we had were Pepsi and cookies.'' 
Kathy Kane, president of Walsh, told the council that "theme part­ies" to be held in her hall were designed to de-emphasize alcohol consumption. 
In other business, the HPC unanimously approved a proposal drafted by Sorin President Dave Bender to enable halls to operate football concession stands located near their halls if they obtained rights to a position through the Student Activities lotterv. 
The proposal would affect only those halls having one of the 12 approved concession stand sites. and will be presented to the Office of Student Activities for considera­tion. 
Happy f<eynolds. president of Augusta Hall. represented the Hall Presidents council of St. Mar~··s at the meeting. 


d .

Intro 
ucmg 

efDeli ' 
• 


4 pounds of pizza pleasure-cheeses and sausages. pepperoni and fresh mushrooms. green peppers and onions. tomatoes and olives and pineapple-even shrimp. and more. 
c.And a fabulous buy,too! 
r-----------------,
$2.000FF I

I  .  
I  \'  FAMILY SIZE  I  
I~ •'&&~',.0II" P"'"'" onWttfDeli! I $1.00 Off Double Size Deli 1  
\  Limit one coupon per pizza ordered.  1  
I  EXPIRES DEC. 9, 1976  I  

L!~~~!~!~~~!~~~!~~J 
J.·,J 

---~----------------~------~-----------------------------------------------------~
r----------------------------------------------------------~~-­
the observer Wednesday, November 17, 1976 
Flanner-Regina computer-match mixer helps to break 'drink-and-dance' habit 
by Jack Pizzolato Staff Reporter 

What happens when 100 guys from Flanner Hall get blind dates with I00 girls from Regina? "A good night of fun,'' said senior Neil Washburn, co-chairman of the "computer match-up mixer" which was held for residents of the two dorms Monday evening in Regina Hall. 
Students filled out survey sheets before the event, indicating their height and class, and their own preferences for a date. An impar­tial committee then "matched-up" the participants. "There was a one hour obligation period to stay with your date." Wa.shburn said, "but I noticed most couples continued together the whole night.'' 
The idea, according to Wash­burn. who is a Resident Assistant (RA) in Flanner, came up earlier this semester at an RA get-together at. St. Mary's. "We wanted to break the social ice, especially for freshmen, and have an evening full of varied activities, at a place where people could mingle and that was easily accessible,·· Washburn explained. 
After a meeting with some RAs 

in Regina Hall, Washburn and 
Terease Chin, an RA in Regina 
North, decided to try out the idea. 
The entire first floor of the hall was 
open the mixer which featured not 
only disco dancing but also pocket 
billiards. table tennis, free gam­
bling and $60 in door prizes. "We 
were very happy with the out­
come," Chin said. "I think 
everyone had a good time." 
"It was a huge success," Wash-

Public service to highlight talk 
A presentation on careers in government, public administration and public service will be held tonight in Room 122 of the Hayes­Healey Building at 7 pm. 
Featured speakers will be John Melssen of the South Bend Social Security Administration and Roger Beesley of the Indiana State Per­sonnel Division. 
The presentation is being spon­sored by the Notre Dame Place­ment Bureau, the St. Mary's Career Development Center and the St. Mary's Business Club. 
ERRATUM 

In the Free University Course Descriptions, course number 108, "Environmental Education," should list the recommended, but not required textbook as A Sand County Almanac. 
"Shout at the Devil" 

Starts 
Friday 

Weekdays 7:00-9:20 
Sat-Sun: 2:00, 7:00. 9:20 

They hav something spe­cial planned for "THE NEXT MAN" 
burn commented, "and partly unexpected. We anticipated about 40 or SO guys from Flanner, but almost 20 per cent of the hall turned out." 
One of the objectives of the mixer, was that matched couples might date each other again. "I talked with a lot of guys who are going to give it another shot," Washburn noted. He also men­tioned that there was a suggestion of running a full fledged match-up service for the entire campus next semester. 
Participants Enjoy Match-up 
''It was excellent,'' said Margar­et Turk, a Regina freshman who won a $20 dinner for two at the Boar's Head Restaurant. "A great way to meet people." 
Sarah Biety, another freshmen, commented that it was something different. "I'd love to see it happen again," she said. 
Ed Burns, a Flanner junior, pointed out, "All the guys knew each other, and so the shy ones opened up. It was a very, very good social event." 
'Oliver,' "1776' to air over break 
A Thanksgiving Party, featuring 
the movies "Oliver" and "1776", 
will be held Thanksgiving after­
noon and evening. This third 
annual Thanksgiving bash was 
announced by host Darby O'Gill, 
official University grace minister. 
It will be held at Darby's Place, in 
the Lafortune Rathskellar. 
O'Gill, who is still awaiting 
University funding of a program to 
insure an apostolic succession of 
heirs, is also still looking for money 
to pay for the Thanksgiving gala. 
''Any and all contributors wishing 
to be remembered in the hearts of 
lonely Domers are invited to con­
tribute to this worthwhile but 
expensive event," O'Gill an­
nounced through his spokesman, 
Fr. Robert Griffin, University 
Chaplain. 
Donors may leave their contri­bution with Griffin who can be found at 101 Keenan or at Darby's Place. 
Darby's will open 2:00 p.m. Thanksgiving day; refreshments will be available. Griffin will say a Thanksgiving Mas at 6 p.m. in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel. Darby's will reopen at 7 p.m. At 7:30 "Oliver" will be shown, followed by "1776" at 9 p.m. 
O'Gill wishes to thank especially theKnightsof Columbus as well as Joe Gill, business manager of Darby's Placer and part-time leaf chaser. for their aid in making the evening possib:e. Anyone wishing to help out should contact Joe Gill at 3214 or the Knights of Columbus at 7018. 
David Dornbus, a freshman in Flanner, also agreed. "It was the best few hours I spent since I've been here." 
Washburn emphasized there was no alcohol at the mixer. "We wanted to get out of the dance­drink syndrome," he commented, "and I think we've proved that you can have fun without being drunk." 
"We may have created a spark of potential for this new brand of party-mixer," he concluded. 
Soloist Glasser performs Wed. 
Concert pianist Katherine Gla­ser, a guest soloist of network television, symphony orchestras and chamber ensembles, will re­turn to Notre Dame for a recital at 
8:15 pm Wednesday, Nov. 17, in 
the Memorial Library Auditorium. The Program is sponsored by the 
Music Department and is open to
the public without charge. After completion of study at the Juilliard School of Music and the 
University of Michigan, Glaser was accepted for further training by two noted musicians of the 20th centu­ry, Arthur Schnabel and Pablo Casals. She was honored in 1967 as the only North American artist to perform the piano collaboration in the Masters Classes of Pablo Casals in Puerto Rico. 
Glaser has also performed as guest pianist with the Symphony String quartet of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and with the Harper Theater Chamber Music Concerts in Chicago. 
Her Notre Dame concert will include compositions of Bach, Brahms, Bartok, Schubert, Debus­sy, Joplin and Chopin. 
11 a.m. to 11 p.m. 233-0385 526 Western Ave., South Bend 

OMECOMING 1976 HOMECOMING 
wednesday nov. 17 
friday nov. 19 Dining Hall meals with international flavor 
3:00 judging of hall de­coration contest and cheerleader poster con­test 
4:30-5 :00 Hot air ballon
thursday nov. 18 weather permitting, site to be determined but you won't miss it! 
4-7 Happy Hour at "lib­7:00 ACC -Miami Pep rary" Rally 
Come · and boogie "a-9:00-1 :00 Homecoming round the world" Dance Stepan Center ­Music by Catch -Food 
All drinks half price and refreshments provi­ded • tickets on sale in Student Union and Din­ing Halls $5.00 couple 
1 
HOMECOMING 
' I ~ 
*'1 t 
~"­
\ ' 
" 

Registration for next semester's classes continues today. Sophomores must register by 4:30 this afternoon. [Photo by Leo Hansen] 
~~H~E~~L~O~U~.D~S~P~E~A~K~~E~R~--------. 
COMPLETE STEREO SYSTEMS • MATCHED COMPONENTS Featuring
IWI SCOTT.
m 
The Name to I" t t
IS en o. 

Receivers/Tuners/ Amplifiers/Turntables/Speakers 
12-8 Weekdays 9 -5 Sat Ph. 277-3121 Across from Radio Shack near Fat W allys 
When: Dec. 4th (3 p.m.)-Dec. 5th (about 3 p.m.) Where: beach house in Michigan Fee: $4.25 ($3 non-refundable) Sign-Up: before Thanksgiving break in Campus 
Min" office (lOl Jib.) 
saturday nov. 20 
1:30 Miami vs. Notre Dame 
4-7 Happy Hour -Fat Wally' a 
8:00 Doobie Brothers concert at ACC 
10 :30~2 :30 After concert party -in the Nazz 

1976 

L__. ______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
------
----------------~------~--------~---­
------------~­

Records 

American Flyer, the debut album I by the group of the same name, is a record that rises and falls with the whims of producer George Martin (of Beatie and America fame). 
American Flyer itself is a band formed in the typical method of the seventies: all four official members played in other well-known bands and joined together hoping their different styles will mesh together to form a unique and distinctive style. 
Looking at the group's personnel even before playing the record, it is evident there are a lot of different styles involved here. Craig Fuller was the leader of Pure Prairie League for two albums and was the man responsible for songs like "Arnie," "Early Morning Riser," "Tears" and "Call Me, Tell Me." Steve Katz was one of the instrumental leaders of Blood, Sweat and Tears during their heyday. Eric Kaz is a fairly well-known songwriter and Doug Yule used to play with Lou Reed in the Velvet Underground. 
One can be excused for wondering how a countryrocker like Fuller can get along with somebody who used to play with Lou Reed. 
Like Crosby, Stills,Nashand Young, the four have a permanent rythmn section in the persons of Alvin Taylor on drums and Scott Edwards on bass. It seems as if Martin was called in to mesh these different musical backgrounds into a coherent sounding effort. 
Since this is the group's first effort, Martin can take the blame or credit for its subsequent failure or success. In this case, he's at the .500 level, for the album is a victim of how Martin wants the different styles to succeed. 
• 
A Four-Way Solo Act 
The mood of the album is a soft, country rock style with acoustic rhythm guitar and piano being the instruments responsible for the very laid-back sound. The group is at its best when each member is allowed to gear this country-rock style to his own personal style. By allowing Fuller & Co. to do this, Martin lets the group expound on a basic theme and put out an album where no song sounds like another, which is some trick in the country-rock business. Fuller's best effort is "The Women in Your Heart," a three versed afterthought about a love affair. Fuller generally sings love ballads, but sounds surprisingly at ease in this Eagle-style macho ballad. 
Although he is not known for his writing, Doug Yule puts out a unique song in "Lady Blue Eyes." Yule is paying homage to a woman who owns his soul, but the lyrics alone can not convey what he is trying to get across. Pianist Katz, Taylor and Edwards provide a medium tempo jaL:l beat to compliment soft vocals that sound as if they were designed to sound mesmerized (they do.) Joe Sample's Fender Rhodes give eerie feelings to the whole piece. Yule produces the best song in the album. 
"M" and "Such a Beautiful Feeling" have so much orchestration they sound candy-colored. Any lyrics are rendered impotent by the tacky, lush background given by Martin. This is the type of production that is ruining America. Martin and Katz fare better with Katz's "Back in '57", a sentimental, soul-searching song that is sung well by Katz and accompanied perfectly by his own piano and Ernie Watt's sax. 
American Flyer has promise. Their four different members have different styles but have given a little effort to sound like a group instead of four different solo performers stuck on the same disc. (Which is exactly what Souther, Hillman Furay was--a three way solo act) If they get Martin to stick to basics, this group should produce more interesting listening--just like half of their debut album. 
Wednesday, November 17, 1976 
Cinema '77 
When the Good Guys Wore White Hats 
The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance Directed by John Ford Starring John Wavne, James Stewart, Lee Marvin, Vera Mil~s 
A movie can be one of three things. It can be a stimulating intellectual experi­ence, full of meaning and me!'sage. pregnant with significant thoughts and sober celebrations. Or it can inspire intense emotional reactions, carrying the audience through the peaks and valleys of human feeling, inciting anything from fear to happy tears. Or it can be just plain fun. 
The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance, like most films, contains elements of all three. But is comes down heavily on the side of fun in film and stands even today as testament to the days when Hollywood could still be simultaneously straight-laced and straight-faced. If it came out today. it would be blasted for being heavy-handed and rigidly' moralistic. One can only be glad that it didn't come out today. 
John Ford's style of directing typifies those golden days when the Dream Factory didn't take itself quite so seriously. when the hero always got the girl and the good guys wore white hats. He was an unpretentious genius who unashamedly filled his films with caricatures and cliches in tribute to the Old West. So it is with The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance, a delight­fully simplistic fable whose beauty lies in the telling. 
Ransom Stoddard (James Stewart) is a youthful enthusiast who comes to Shinbone armed only with ideals and a bundle of law books. He learns the legend of Liberty Valance the hard way when he is robbed and savagely beaten by the outlaw. But despite his brutal baptism into the Old West, he remains convinced that the ultimate solution to any problem comes from laws and votes. not guns and fists. 
Tom Doniphon (John Wayne) is a product of the West. a tough. hardened man who is respected for it. His power isn't derived of fear. like Valance's. Rather, it is a sure yet silent strength that 

Dauid 0 'Keefe 
manifests itself in word~ a'> well as action. "Liberty Valance is the toughest man south of the picket wire." he tells Stoddard. "Next to me." You never douht it for a minute. 
When' the film open'>. "e sec Senator Stoddard returning to Shin hone. He ha~ built a spectacular political career a'> thl' man who shot Liberty Valanl'e. but now he is returning to Shi-nbone to attend the funeral of an old friend. The young newspapermen want to know who he has come to bury and why. who exactly was Tom Doniphon and how did the Senator come to know him. The movie is a flashback. a portrayal of the events and people that Stoddard describes for the insistent newspaper reporters. His story ends with a confession. a senet he can finally tell. Over the casket of the dead Doniphon. the unknown cowboy whose death marks the passing of the West. the Senator makes his confession: Tom Doniphon was the man who shot Liberty Valance. 
Une reporter, who has listt•ned patiently and intently for hours, wa1ts for Ransom to finish. He takes his sheaf of notes and. while Stoddard looks in amazement. tears them up slowly. He offers an explanation: "There's an old saying in the newspaper business: When the legend becomes fact. print the legend." 
Indeed. 

• 

Hlast chance for a kerry slide!'~ 
The musicians tooted the uilleann pipes, rumbled the bodhrans, squ·eezed t}le concertina, plucked the tim pan and created such a merry din that the audience wanted to dance a jig. Last night at O'Laughlin auditorium the Chieftains, a seven­member band of musiciar•s from Ireland improvised on traditional Irish melodies on their Celtic instruments and showed Americans how to have a good time. It was as free and breezy as a jazz concert and the musicians were just as interesting as their ancient instruments. 
Paddy Moloney, the leader of the group who produces the records and arranges the music, introduces each song. And though his quick humour was hard to grasp from the thick Irish brogue and merry inflection of his voice, everyone ends up laughiJtg at 
e right time. It may be because many of the music lovers nearly filliug O'Laughlin auditorium are Irish_ Studies majors, Irish sisters, or Irish priest&.-Sean Keane, who at nearly 7 feet towers above leprechaun­like Paddy, and Martin Fay begin toying a bright jig from their fiddles as their bows tickle back and forth across the strings. Blond Kevin Conneff, the newest Chieftain 
to this group which as been together for 15 years, whips his small baron on the bodhran. a large drumhead held between the knees. As he taps the cadence, he moves his shoulder and head sensuously to the 1.000 year-old rhythm. People in the audience begin tapping on the arm rests. Then they start clapping. The musicians tap their feet as they rock in their chairs to the rhythm. Sean Potts pipes in with his tin whistle which sounds like a recorder. Michael Turbridy, a civil engineer before the Chieftains turned professional a year ago, solemnly picks up his flute and joins in the merry making. Paddy gives a whoop and warbles a "Ya-diddle-dum, Ya-diddle­
.. /
da. 

Derek "Ding-Dong" Bell toys with the harp and then moves to the timpan, a 12th-century instrument which is like a large zither on legs. Paddy takes up the uilleann pipes and squeezes the bag of this bagpipe-like instrument which was popular in the 16th century. with his elbow to produce a variety of nasal-like sounds. 
The piece is over too quickly. Each number exploits the versatility of the musicians who exchange one instrument for another. A brash solo give~ way to a teasing duet to a merry din with the full group. The songs vary from haunting laments displaying intricate harp passages 
Christie A. Herlihy 

of Elizabethean charm. to jigs and reels with funky blasts from the uillcann pipes and warm-blooded runs from the violins. Kevin Corneff sings several verses of '·Bonaparte· s Last Retreat.'· the title of the Chieftains' new album. in a warm tenor voice which warbles like a vibrating string. Several songs later Sean Potts breaks into a modest Irish jig. The audience loves it and ealls for more dancing. 
"When we performed in England. people just got up and started dancing in the aisles," Paddy said. When the group called back for an encore Paddy announced that it was "the last chance to do what you want to do --the last chance for a kerry slide (Irish jig)." If the Chieftains had done one more number the Notre Dame-St. Mary's audience might have lept to its feet before the standing ovation --dancing. 
I 
~ 
j j j j 
~ ~ 
j l I ! l l I I l I 
! 
I I I I 
1 
l I l 
I 
l 
I 
' 
~ 
t 
1 
l 
'l 
j 
~ 
I l I 
j l t 
l 
• 


6.__--=-t=-.:h:..=e::__:o=...:b~s-=e:...:.r......:v:....::e~r~__w_edn_e_sda_y_,_N_ov_e_m_be_r_1_7_,_19_7_6 
Mardi Gras planning already underway 
As part of this idea to foster a Cila, the missions, Logan Center having fun -has been lost in the O'Gorman added, "We're tryingby Kathy Mills carnival atmosphere, there will be and neighborhood help-study pro­past few years. "We're really to make it better in every respectNewsEdJtor a "gala opening night" according grams, he pointed out. "Mardi going to try to make it a good time for the students and the Universityto Bishop, which will be a costume Gras made about $23,000 last this year," he commented. as a whole." 
Although Mardi Gras is not until night. Other special nights are year," he commented, "and we next semester, plans are already being planned. intend to surpass that this year." being coordinated for the annual More entertainment will also be More games will be added to the 
'"""we~e~_uaw~rst~u
winter event which transforms a part of this year's Mardi Gras. activities at Mardi Gras this year, Stepan Center into a Las Vegas O'Gorman said the Michiana Jazz according to Bishop. He said that ~ SMC soc.~iJso~~¥MISSION ~ 
gaming hall. according to Mardi Band, a 17-piece brass goup, will roulette, Kino and craps will be Gras Chairperson Don Bishop and play at the opening, and a rock added to the usual games of poker Coordinator Allan O'Gorman. band will play at each of the two and dice. He also mentioned the Saturday nights the carnival spans. possibility of having non-gambling 
~ CHRISTMAS ~ 
Mardi Gras will run from Feb. 11 The committee is also trying to add games.through 19, yet the booth chairper­a bluegrass night, O'Gorman 
Bishop also said more people 
~on~ have already met several added. 
from Notre Dame's Architecture 
~ BAZAAR ~ 
time~. Bishop said. and the booth "We're going to have a lot of Department are involved in the r . ~ designs will be in before Thanks­entertainment," he added. "This 
carnival than in past years. Lisa
giving. He also said the car for the is a social event for the campus." 
Becker is the architect for the event 
~ Dec_.7,8,.&? ~ 
raffle. a 1977 Cutlass Supreme, and "We would like a lot more 
and Dan Pichler is her assistant. 
the r~ftle books have already been student participation this year," 
The accountant for this year's
,,rdercd. f Anyone Interested In _bavtng ~ 
Bishop said. "It's for the students. Mardi Gras is Sean Casey. Claire We hope to do this by getting Boast and Beth Delucenay areBoth Bishop and O'Gorman em­better entertainment." ! a booth Call -4833 or ~­
handling the raffle, and Larry
pha~izcd Mardi Gras this year will O'Gorman noted that the pur­Kerigan is in charge of Specialhave more of a ''carnival atmos­poses of Mardi Gras are two-fold.
phere" than in previous years. Projects. ~ Write P.O. Box 1221 HC ~ 
"It's to raise money for charities," Bishop noted more work will be'"We're trying to make it a lot more he said, "and to fulfill a social done on Mardi Gras next semester.
fun for everyone involved," O'Gor­! SMC Notre Dame, IN ~ 
function for the students." "We're getting things lined upnan noted. 
All the profits from Mardi Gras now," he noted. ~ 46556 ~ go to Notre Dame charities, inclu· The chairperson also said heHonorary degree ding the World Hunger Coalition, thinks the real goal of Mardi Gras -~e"tr~~~~~~tr~~~ 
nominations being accepted 
bv Katie Kerwin Senior Staff Reporter 
The Senior Class Honorary De­

gr-ee Committee is seeking nomina­
tions from all members of the 
~enior class for the recipient of an 
honorary doctoral degree to be 
awarded at graduation in May. 
Seniors arc asked to submit their 

suggestions to Allan O'Gorman, 
chairman of the committee, by 
Monday, Nov. 22, at 115 Sorin 
Hall. O'Gorman said the written 
~uggestion should include a short 
description of the nominee's back­
~round and must be signed by the 
~enior making the nomination. 
O'Gorman explained that there 
s no limitation on the field for 
10mination. Any person from 

~ntcrtainment. government, edu­
:ation. professional. social service 
1r professional areas is eligible. 
"We're looking for someone who 

?xemplifies what the senior class 
.\·ants to honor." O'Gorman stated. 
He added that tlw committee is 
ntcrcsted in someone who has 

m.de a contribution to societv and 
1a~ exhibited Christian attittide in 
1i~ public life. "Humanitarianism 
1a~ to enter into it." he said. 
·~plaining that accomplishments 
m· not the sole criteria for the 

.cll'dion. 
The committee. composed of a 

hairman and a student from each ,f the colleges at Notre Dame, will ubmit three names to Fr. Theo­iorc Hesb.urgh. University presi­lent. by Dec. 3. Hesburgh. who 1·ill make the final decision. will nnounce the recipient of the 1nnorar~· degree early next semes­lT. Hcsburgh usually chooses one ,,r the nominees sugg·~sted by the 
.enior class committu:. 
O'Gorman stressed that the 

m ard is flO! something to be taken i~htly. "After four years of work ·ere. most seniors should appreci­te the value of the degree se're 1rescnting... he said. He said the ·ommittee hope~ to receive nomi­lations that are the r~sult of .l'fious consideration. and not joke 
uggestions. 

The committee. all senior<>. in­ludes: Allan O'Gorman. chair­nan; Ruth Zurcher. of the College ,f Science; Leann Russ. of the ~ollege of Arts and Letters; Jim ;mith. of the College of Engineer­ng; and Joe Fiorella. of the College ,f Business Administration. 
The committee was instituted by Jniversity Provost James Burt­·haell to bring seniors into the romination process for honorary iegress. Frank O'Malley received he first Senior Class Honorary )egree·in 1971. .. 
RUSTY WIER 
BLACK HAT SALOON 
including: I Thtnk It's Time (I Learned How To Let Her Go) The Devil Lives In Dallas/Coast 01 Colorado Htgh Road-Low Road/Tell Me Truly Julie 
STEREOLPS SERIES 6.98 
$3.99 
THESE TOP HITS FROM THE CBS FAMILY 1\\RE ON SALE NOW: 
RUSTY WIER-BLACK HAT SALOON, MARY KAY PLACE-TONITE! 
ATTHECAPRI LOUNGE LORETTA HAGGERS, BOSTON, 
PHOEBE SNOW-IT LOOKS LIKE SNOW, BURTON CUMMINGS 
AND WILLIE NELSON-TROUBLE MAKER 
STEREOLPS SERIES 5.98 
$3.59 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
PRICES GOOD THROUGH NOV 20 
'-------------------.....-..-...~.,...... ,
• • t \. t l' ' I• • • \1 t t' • • • .f.' ,• • 1 , t ... t 1;' •',t< , • t • o t .• J t;' • , •' 
• • • ...• -· .: ~· ' ..• ... ~ ~ 4' ... ' \ -.... ' " .. .. • • • • • • • • 
--,-----------------------~-------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, November 17, 197& 
the observer

_Had wanted firing squad 
Utah prisoner and girlfriend attempt suicide 
by David Briscoe Associated Press Writer 

SALT LAKE CITY (AP)-Gary Mark Gilmore, whose wish to die before a firing squad has been delayed by a reprieve, and his girlfriend were found uncounscious yesterday in an apparent suicide pact. 
Authorities said they believed both had taken drug overdoses. "He tried to take his own life," prison medical technician Tom Anguay said of Gilmore. "he tried to OD." 
Gilmore, who has contended he prefers death to languishing in prison and asked a court to disregard appeals on his behalf, was rushed from the Utah State Prison to the University of Utah Medical Center. His condition was listed as serious, but hospital spokesman John Keahey said it was believed Gilmore would pull through. 
Nicole Barrett, 20, was in a coma and in critical condition at Utah Valley Hospital in Provo, 40 miles to the south, hospital officials said. She was rushed there at 9: 13 am after being found in her apartment in Springville. 
The development came one day before Gilmore was scheduled to appear before the Uta! Board of Pardons for a decision on whether it would commute his death sen­tence to a lesser penalty. 
Board chairman George Latimer, 
said yesterday that if Gilmore is 
unable to appear as scheduled 
Wednesday his case will not be 
considered until the board's next 
meeting Dec. 8. 
Springville Police Chief Leland 
Bowers said Mrs. !BArrett was 
found lying uncounscious on a 
living room couch, covered with a blanket, with a photo of Gilmore on her chest. 
He said two empty pill bottles were found by her bed, one of Seconal, a prescription sleeping pill, and one of a milder sleeping pill. He would not comment on whether she left a note, but television station KSL said two envelopes were found near her. 
Reporters knocked on her door yesterday morning but got no response. Neighbors went to check and the door was opened by her three-year-old son. 
Smith said it was not known how Gilmore got pills. He said it was possible he got them during visits from outsiders. and hid th em under his tongue when searched afterward. 
Mrs. Barrett, Gilmore's attor­m;ys and family members had visited the inmate, Smith said. 
In addition, Deputy Warden Leon Hatch said he warned Mrs. Barrett prior to her visit to Gilmore Monday that the prison knew she bought 20 sleeping pills recently and that she was not allowed to bring them to the prison. Hatch said she assured him she acquired the pills only for helping h er to sleep and would not smuggle them to Gilmore. 
Gilmore, who has spent 18 of his 35 years in penal institutions. was critical of Gov. Calvin Rampton when Rampton stayed Golmore's scheduled execution so the board could review the case. Gilmore. originally scheduled to die this past Monday for killing a motel clerk during a robbery in July, said delaying the execution subjected him to the "stress of cruel, unusual and inhumane punishment.'' 
Gilmore is known to have attem­pted suicide while an inmate in the Oregon prison system. There also have been reports of a pact between him and Mrs. Barrett. a mother of two, under which she would commit suicide after Gilmore was executed. 

Make Your Place The Roma TONITE : SMIRNOFF PARTY Dance to "Reborn" Weds. , Fri. & Sat. "A real paisana pizza from un paisano" 
Friendly atmosphere call 234-3258 group discounts for free delivery 
KEN'S DEN
SMC downs ND in volleyball 
by Win Palmer Sports Writer 

St. Mary's College upended the University of Notre Dame women's volleyball team in a best of three match Monday at the A.C.C. For the Notre Dame women it was their fi~st home game of the year after losing three matches on the road last weekend. It is the first year of active competition for the women of Notre Dame who are applying for club status for next year. Astrid Hotvedt, coordinator of women's athletics at Notre Dame, said after the game, "if the girls show an interest in volleyball in the future then another goal would be to have a coach." 
For St. Mary's it was their final game of the season. Last year was the first year that St. Mary's had a volleyball team and this year they were funded by the university. Although the team finished with a losing record this year after a 6-4 finish last year, coach Barbara Burlingham feels that "the team has shown improvement this year" and she thinks that next year can be a good year for the SMC volleyball team. 
·Trish Bertke and Kathy McCann helped Notre Dame to an early 6-2 lead in the first game but St. Mary's came from behind to win 15-11, aided by the efforts of captain Dianne Klucka and Mary King. The second game was a very exciting one as the lead seesawed back and forth between the two teams. St. Mary's jumped off to a 7-0 lead and it appeared that the more experienced SMC squad was on its way to an easy victory. But co-captains Judy Shiely and Mary Ryan brought ND back. Notre Dame grabbed their first lead of the game at 14-13 as Bertke made a successful spike. The game was tied at 15-15 on a winning serve by Kelli Conlin of SMC, but Notre Dame won in overtime 17-15. 

r LSummer Prog'---ra_m_s--It·~ 
LONDON ( May 24-June 24) 
Ireland, Scotland, England and France.
iTravel: 
Or 

ROME (June 23-July24) 
Traver: France, Germany,· Switzerland and Italy. S~onsored by S.M.C. Courses Available in Ar1, Archeology, History and Theate-r. 
CINEMA 77 

THE GREAT WESTERNS ••
• A Film Festival 
4 THE MAN WHO SHOT 
LIBERTY VALENCE NOV 17 
5 LONELY ARE· THE BRAVE 
NOV 18___ ALL SHOWS 7:30 & 10:00 pm ENG. AUD. ONE DOLLA 
HAIR STYLING-­
The third game was all St. Mary's as they jumped out to a 
MEN &WOMEN 
quick lead and held on to win 15-6, winning two out of the three games 
ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER
played and the match. Anyone interested in joining the Notre 
(LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA}
Dame women's volleyball team is encouraged to come to practice 
PHONE 255-6500 
Sunday, November 21, at 6:30p.m. 
APPOINTMENTS PREFERRED
in the Stepan Center. 
Classified ·Ads 
NOTICES 

TYPING $.35 a page. Call Dan 272-5549 
Will do typing, themes, manuscripts Call287-5162 
AUDIO OUTLET · stereos, televi­sions, tape decks, CB's. Wholesale Cail283-1181 
ND-SMC Council for the Retarded: Coffeehouse Wed.• 8-10 p.m. at Bulla Shed. All volunteers and friends are invited. 
Any Sr. interested in working on the St. Mary's and Notre Dame Sr. formal Committee should attend the sr. class meeting Wednesday at 4:15 
p.m. first floor Hayes-Healy 
Accurate, Fast Typing. Mrs Donoho 232-0746 Hours 8 am to 8 pm 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND S20 . 150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune basement M-F 11:15 to 12:15 
Tickets for The J. Geils Band ­James Gang concert Friday, Nov­ember 19 at Kalamazoo's wings Stadium are now on sale at the River City Review ticket outlets: Boogie Records (College Square) and Just for the Record (100 Center) 
Sign up for SMC FAST DAY (Rice and Tea Meal) outside of SMC dining hall on Tues. Nov. 16th and Wed. Nov. 17th. 
Place your order early for fresh turkeys $.79 lb. Ekrich hot dots 1 lb. pkg. $.89 Jim's Meat and Sausagy Shop 
1916 Lincoln Way West 
FOR RENT 
Will rent my upstairs. S40 mo. Girls 
only.  Call 233-1329  
Three  bedroom  house  for  rent  
unfurnished.  fenced  yard.  Near  

Memorial Hospital. Reasonable for married student. Quiet neighbor­hood. 232-9128 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost and Found: If you picked up the wrong camel hair jacket by mistake at Morrissey's Campus View party, Sat. Oct. 30 please call Shannon 5150 SMC. I've got yours-reward for mine back. 
Lost: SMC Gold Class Ring engraved with Mary Esther Hall. BS, '78. Reward 
if found. 
Call 4524 
Lost: Between Farley and o.1 parking lot. A gold and purple earring, lost last Friday. Call 6868 
Lost: St. Mary's Green Italian spiral notebook Call 4-4777 
Lost: Silver N.D. '77 class ring. Engraved with F. James Dragna. Will pay reward. 8552 
WANTED 
Need ride to Columbus. Ohio over Thanksgiving break. Can leave as early as Tuesday (23 ). Share driving and expenses. Call Tim at 1658 
Girlfriend needs ride from N.J. to 
N.D. for Thanksgiving break. Call 3408 
Chicago-Evanston, Friday. Need passenger. Halvies on gas. Call 283-7791 
HELP!!! Ride needed to east coast 
(N.Y.C. · CONN.) for Thurs. night or Fri. morning. Will help pay and drive (auto. or standard) Call Debbie at 7515 
Need ride to Iowa, Dubuque tor Thanksgiving break. Will share expenses. Call john 1723 
Miami Football (G.A) tix wanted. Need block of 4-6 tickets. Phone Ray 288-2323 
4 barmaids for the GRAND OPEN· lNG OF Notre Dame's 2100 CLUB this Sat. Call Carl 3038 
Help: I'm homesick! Going my way for Turkey Day ? Syracuse, New York. Call Karen 6737 
Need a ride to Amarillo, Texas. Will share expenses. 272-9799 
I need 3 G.A. Miami tix. Call 4047 
WANTED: PART. TIME Cocktail Waitress. Wed., Fri., Sat., 4:30 ·until close. Apply at Stewart's Down Under 900 E. Ireland Rd. South Bend. 
Need ride to Bloomfield Michigan this weekend. Call lan 3451 
Need 2 tix for Doobies Call Bob J. 289-1431 
FOR SALE 
Swiss Wrist watch (Day-Date), Or­nate Indian Bedspreads, Necties, Etc... Call Ed. 288-0018,8:30-10:00 any-------------­" miami Game: For Sale a set of married tickets. $15.00. Call: 6140 after 9:00 pm."
____________..:___ 
Excellent Opportunity for NO Stu­dent Business . Record Shop · Sold Complete. Unbelievable price. Call 232-0000 
For Sale: Sherwood S-7225 Sten~c Receiver, Realistic L.ab-14 tumtabll!, 2 MC-1000 speakers. Stereo ht:dd phones and Cabinet. S250 or best offer. Call Curt at 8711 after 5:00. 
BOOK SHOP. Used Books, Studens Paradise. Open Wed., Sat., Sun.• 9-7. Ralph Casperson Books, 1303 Buchannan Road. Niles Mich. 683-2888 
Texas Instrument Sr-50 for sale. Half year old S45.00. Call 1196 evenings. 
Miami GA tix for sale. Kevin or Jack 1816. 
Two Doable Brother tickets. Row 6, Row 9 Bob 8872 
ForSale Skis, Hart Freestyle, 190 em. Used twice. Call 277-3762 'lights. 
PERSONALS 
There once was a girl named Molly, 
Who always got drunk and was jolly 
Although she comes from Holy 
Cross 
She frequently manages to get lost 
On her way to stanford for folly 
'Yankee Mike' is comino back to the personals this week. · 
Spes Unica on your 19th birthday, Nancita!!! Love. The SBS Gang 
Nancy Rang is having fun!!! 
Nancy E., Sorry about the many lonely nights. La La La La 
Nancy Rang, Could you help me chisel some rice krispie treats? 
The Ralloping Rourmet 
P. Puller­1feel like TWISTING and BITING. How about you?? 
C. Clipper 
Will import the California sunshine if you'll stay here with us next year. Nancy. Happy Birthday! 
Love, 
Debbie, Ruchs. Bidita, Denise 
I'll blow you a million kisses tonight honey. Love. Care 
Hostile girls nned to express them­selves with beautiful. decorative wraught iron. Need estimate-please call. 
Linda and Jan: Beware! Your time is comino. Th.e innocent half of 243 Lyons 
Awareness of you and direction toward goals. Come to the Lite Planning.Values Clarification wor1<­shop, Sunday, Nov. 21 in the Counseling Center, Room 400; Ad· ministration Bldg. 3 two-hour sessions, begins 9 a.m. To inquire or register, call 1717 
Get your fantasy teet together on a magical ride witn the WIzard at the 2100 CLUB 
Interested in tutoring South Bend schoolchildren from 4 5 on Tues and 
Thurs.? Call Katie at 1275 
General CAP meeting lor all mem bers. Wed. 17th at 7:00 in 1\8 O'Shag. Please allend. 
Candace. Happy 22nd Birthday Yankee Mike 
Westembound Lemon Babies and friends: Party one week form tonight. 
Lourdes and Leo's massage parlor: 6772 Rob Civitello not invited. Terry Riley need not apply 
Hello everybody in Rome again. Hope you're enjoying yourselves, Sandy, Dick and all our friends-
The girls In Lyons 
~-----~---------­

----~~~---------­
the observer Wednesday, November 17, 1976 

The soccer club ended their season with a win. This year's ten victories is a school record. 
*Observer . 
-.•". SJ)orts 
-' 

Munson captures MVP 
NEW YORK AP -Thurman Munson. the catching mainstay who led the New York Yankees back to glory with their first pennant in 12 years. was named Tuesday the American League's Most Valuable Player for lq76. 
Munson, New York's team cap­tain who batted .302 with 17 home run~ and I05 runs batted in. was a runaway winner of the MVP award. easil~· outdistancing runner-up George Brett of Kansas City and Yankee teammate Mickey Rivers. who finished third. 
The 2\)-vear-old Munson re­cciYcd 18 ·first-place votes and a total of 304 points from the 24-member panel of the Baseball Writers Association of America. two from each league city. Four others voted for Munson second while the remaining two placed him third. 

Munson is the first Yankee to win the award since Elston Howard in 1%3. Howard also was the last catcher to win MVP honors. 
Brett. the Royals third baseman who won the AL batting crown with 
a .333 mark. was second with 217 points. including two first-place votes. Rivers. the speedy center fielder who hit .312 with 43 stolen bases for the Yankees, garnered J7q points, including one firstplace ballot. 
'Big Ten Bowl' approaches 
CHICAGO AP -The Michigan­Ohio State confrontation at Colum­bus to determine the Big Ten's Rose Bowl representative Saturday ligures to be another low-scorin:::. slam-bang affair according to t·oarhes Bo Schcmbcchler of Mich­igan and Woody Hayes of Ohio State. 
"I look for a t~·pical Michigan­Ohio State contest." SChembech­lcr told Chicago Football Writers Tucsda~· in a telephone interview. 
"It"ll depend on the breaks and who makes the fewest mistakes,'' added Bo. "It'II be hotly con­tcstt·d. hard hitting with great plays. It could be highscoring but I doubt it." 
Haves concurred and said. "Coa.rhcs arc the most pragmatic people in the world and they do "hat has worked for them. It'll be a hm scoring game." 
"We've studied one another prctt~· well." said Hayes. "Both teams have good defenses and it \\ill be difficult to surprise each other." 
Could the quarterbacking make a difference what with Michigan having sophomore Rick Leach who now has nearly two full seasons under his belt against Jim Pacenta 1\'ho recently earned the starting assignment at Ohio State when Rod Gerald was injured. 
Our offense has not changed drastically with Pacenta,'' Hayes ;;aid. "He's almost as good a runner and passes better. Leach is 

.·,improved from last year and Mich­
igan passes mainly off running 
action." 
Schcmbechler agreed that Leach 

is better than he was a year ago but 
was wary of Pacenta's potential. 
"He's veteran who has been around three years," said Schem­bechlcr. "He is competent and the only reason he has not played is because they had Cornelius Greene and Gerald. I think they'll throw some. . .probably more than if Gerald were playing. But they will also use a lot of option football." 
Haves said. "The home field is a definite advantage" but Schem­bcchlcr was not as assertive. 
"The home field always is an advantage but not as much in this game as it normally would be," said Bo. "The game simply menas too much.'' 
Hayes said he would play for a tie, depending on the situation and time left in the game because "a tie would give us the Big Ten cham­pionship and that's waht it's all about." 
A tie would give Ohio State a 7-0-1 record, the conference cham­pionship and a trip to the Rose Bowl. 
Michigan must win to claim a share of the title since the Wol­verines' record is blemished by a loss to Purdue. A Michigan victory would leave both teams with 7-1 records in the conference but the Wolverines would get the Rose Bowl bid because of defeating Ohio State head-to-head. 
Soccer clup captures finale 
by Ray O'Brien Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame Soccer club closed their fall season on a positive note last Friday with a 7-3 drubbing of Xavier College. The cold weather Friday night at Carti­er Field posed more of a nuisance than the Xavier squad as the contest was never in doubt. 
The Fighting Irish wasted little time in getting on the board as they scored in the opening minutes of play and continued the barrage throughout the first half totaling six goals in the first thirty minutes of play. 
Sophomore standout Bill Hag­gerty led the offensive assault for Notre Dame finding the net open 
Four schools unbeaten in top 20 
Four major schools remain un­beaten as the college football season begins its "Battle for the Bowls,'' and all four teams, finally, are in The Associated Press' Top Twenty ratings. 
Pitt, with only its annual battle against intrastate rival Penn State remaining in the regular season, increased its record to I0-0 Satur­day with a 24-16 triumph over West Virginia and remained in the No. I spot. The Panthers received 44 first-place votes and 1,206 of a possible I,260 points from a nation­wide panel of 63 sports writers and broadcasters. 
Texas Tech retained its unblem­ished record with a 34-7 walloping of Southern Methodist and held on to the no. 5 spot. 
But Maryland, despite a 20-0 victory over Clemson, had to share sixth place with Georgia, seventh last week, and Rutgers. holder of the nation's longest winning streak among major colleges, made its first appearance in the poll by tying Missouri, for 19th. 
UCLA. Southern California and Michigan retained their 2-3-4 spots, Oklahoma climbed back into the 'Top Ten and Houston jumped three places to ninth while being idle last weekend. 
UCLA, a 45-14 winner over Oregon State, landed 13 first-place ballots and 1,093 points, narrowing the gap between the Uclans and Pitt's Panthers. Pitt led last week. by 1,226-1,093. 
Southern Cal received one first­place vote, Michigan two and Texas Tech, Maryland and Texas A&M one each. 
Ohio State, which takes on Big Ten rival Michigan on Saturday, is eighth. Houston, ranked ninth, and Olkahoma, lOth, complete the Top Ten. 
Irish climb to 13th in AP poll 
The Top Twenty teams in the Associated Press college football poll, with first-place votes in paren­theses, season records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18­20-18-16-14-12-10-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1 
1. Pittsburgh 44 10-0-0 1,206 2. UCLA 13 9-0-1 1,093 3. Southern Call 8-1-0 866 4. Michigan 2 9-1-0 834 5. Texas Tech 1 8-0-0 786 6. Georgia tie 9-1-0 663 
Maryland 1 10-0-0 663 8. Ohio State 8-1-1 S55 9. Houston 6-2-0 315 
10. Oklahoma 7-2-1 285 11. Tex A&M 1 7-2-0 271 12. Nebraska 7-2-1 203 13. Notre Dame 7-2-0 189 14. Iowa State 8-2-0 188 15. Colorado 7-3-0 100 16. Okl State 6-3-0 99 17. Penn State 7-3-0 31 18. Alabama 7-3-0 28 19. Missouri tie 6-4-0 26 -Rutgers 10-0-C 26 
three times in the course of the night. Junior Jim Moellering, who has been a consistent scorer all year, added two goals in the offensive onslaught. Tim Nauman and Tony Bezouska, a freshman and junior respectively, each added single tallies in the winning cause. The Irish outshot the meek Xavier team by a lopsided margin of 38-6. The defense had little to do but to stay warm in 'the freezing temper­atures. 
The victory upped Notre Dame's record to 10-6-1 on the year. The ten wins were the most in the Fighting Irish's soccer history.The crowd attending the game was also the largest in recent memory. The season proved to be a huge success in the team's bid for varsity status. 
The soccer team's main strength Jay in the offense and the team's depth. The team started many underclassmen. The Irish dressed 40 players for this game and each played a substantial amount. Leadership came from senior co­captains John Thorton and Tom Mulvey. Bob Connoly, a Notre Dame graduate student coached this year's squad. 
The Irish plan a trip south during the spring break with the probable tour going through Texas.They also will stage the first student versus alumni game. In addition, an exhibition game has been set up with Joliette State Penitentiary. Anyone who is interested in play­ing can sign up and try out for the spring squad. Sign-up announce­ments will be made at a later date. 

Pigskin Potpourri 
Davis quits CFL 
TOR0'\'1'0 (AP) -Anthony Davis, the Toronto Argonat'. 
controveiloiai $1 million running back, has purchased his c• 
tract from th~ Canadian Football League team with an t'~' · 
toward joining the National Football League. 
Argos owner Bill Hodgson announced Monday that 1tw 
fOrmer University of Southern Califomia star had purchasef 
his outright release from the club. Davis, 24, had completed 
only the first of a five-year contract with the Argos which was 
J'e'ported to be worth $1 million. 
Reasons for his departure were not elaboratf'd on. but Mike 
Trope, Davis' agent, indicated Davis wants to return to the 
United States so he could be close to a possible acting career 
and have an opportunity to play in tht> NFL. 
Dick Shatto, Argos managing director, said: "Anthony and 
the Argonauts al'e' parting on amiable tenns. 
"A.D. is a great athlete," he said, "but if you have someone 
in your organization who is not completely happy, then it's best 
for both parties that he have the opportunity to try his skills 
elsewhere." 
The announcmcnt opened the door for Davis to resume his 
football career next season in the NFL with the Tampa Bay 
Bucaneers. He had been drafted by the New York .Jets. the 
team Toronto outbid for his services a year ago. When the Jets 
failed to sign him, he tx>came available for this past year's 
draft and was taken by Tampa Bay. 
Yale's Cozza steps down 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. (AP)-Carmen Cozza. Yale's gentle­
manly football coach, says his dt:'cision to leave the locker 
room for the front office was difficult, but one with which he is 
satisfied. 
The dapp('r, soft-spoken Cozza, th(' winningest football coach 
in the ancient Ivy League school's hic;tory, announced his 
coaching resignation Monday night. 
He steppoo down to lX' fulltime athletic director. a job to 
which he was appointro in .June. 
"It was a very difficult decision. It was an agreement I had 
made with the administration when I accepted the athlt>tic 
directorship in June, that at the end of this year I would give 
up coaching," Cozza said. 
In his 12 years as coach, Cozza compiled a 77-3~1 re·cord and 
guided five teams to Ivy Leagut> championships. This year. 
Yale tied Brown for the league title. 
Brown grabs honors 
AssociatPd Pl'l'!iS 

Aaron Brown of Ohio State has be('n s<'leetPd the Big Ten 
defensivP player of the week by The AssociatPd PrPss for his 
efforts Saturday in a 9-3 victory over l'vlinnesota which assured 
the Buckeyes a share of the conference championship. 
Brown, a &-foot-2, 22&-pound junior from Warren. Ohio, was 
credited with 10 tackles. six of which \\-We solos and had four 
sacks for a total of 42 lost yards. 
He and his teammates consistently put pressure on quarter­
back Tony Dungy. prompting Coach Woody Hayes to argue. 
"The defense won it for us. our br~1 defenS(' this y<'ar by far." 
Brown lx'comes the fourth BuckPyc to v.in the defensiw 
player honor thL<; seaSCin. Otllers wrre ~it:k Buonamid. Bob 
Brudzinski and Ed Thompson. 
High and Inside 
Quarterback Randy Dean of Northwestrrn has lK'Pn selrcu'd Big Ten player of the week on offense by th<' Associatrd Prrss for hi<; outstanding prrfonnance in a 42-21 victory over Michi­gan State which ended a 15-game losing streak. 
Dean, a &-foot-3, 195-pound senior from Whit{'fish Bay. Wis.. completf'd 12 of 23 passes for 272 yards. He threw touchdown passes of 30 and 5 yards to Mark Bailey. 
Dean also gained 44 yards rushing to account for 316 yards. second in th{' Big Ten this year only to the 323-yard perfonn­ance by Michigan Stat{''s Ed Smith against North Carolina Stat£'. 

