--~-~---~ ----------~--~--------­
Dr. Hofman to resign in June as dean of Freshman Year Program 


by Peter Arndt 
Staff Reporter 
Dr. Emil T. Hofman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies Prog­ram, will resign as dean on July 1st, announced the University Info­rmation Services yesterday. 
Hofman, a member of Notre Dame's faculty since 1953, and dean of Freshman Year since June 1971, said he is resigning to devote full time to developing new teach­ing methods and techniques, and also to prepare two chemistry textbooks for publication. 
"The two books will cover just general chemistry," Hofman said. "The book we have now is a preliminary edition of one not finished yet. However," Hofman added, "they won't be ready in time for use next semester.'' 
Hofman said his new teaching methods include among other things, films and video tapes, with the use of educational technology. Hofman has produced a series of "home movies" of laboratory ex­
periments  as  a  part  of  his  
classroom  teaching.  "This  was  
done"  he  said,  "principally  be­ 

cause most chemists can't make films and most film-makers don't understand chemistry." 
Hofman is originally from Pater­son, N.J. After attending the University of Miami in Florida, he received his master's and doctoral degrees at Notre Dame. After joining the University faculty in the early SO's, he was appointed a professor in 1968. He has also served as assistant chairman of the Department of Chemistry and as­sistant dean of the College of Science. 
Hofman refused to speculate on who his successor would be. He said no one knows just yet and that a selection committee will be 
formed to make that decision. He 
added that the selection of the 
committee is in the hands of Fr. 
Burtchaell, University provost, and 
will probably be discussed at the 
next Academic Council meeting. 
As to teaching additional cour­ses, if any, at the University,' Hofman said, "What the future will be, I just don't want to say that much." 
Hofman was one of the main supporters of the Board of Trustees decision to allow the admission of women to the University back in 1972. Hofman said that the decision was "the best thing that's happened to the place." 
Burtchaell, cite~d Dr. Hofman for his accomplishments and said. "While we regret his leaving. we can appreciate his desire to concen­trate on classroom activities where he has achieved such a high degree of success." 

by Phil Cackley Senior Staff Reporter 
After warning the audience that novelists are long-winded, John Gardner read for an hour from his new book last night at the second lecture of the Sophomore Literary Festival. 
Gardner. a noted American nov­elist and scholar, spoke to a standing-room only crowd of 400 in the Library Auditorium. He partic­ipated earlier in the day in two workshops with students. 
The new book, entitled October Light, has been sent to Gardner's publisher and may be published later this year. Gardner said he has been working on the novel for the past five years. 
The author, who has written books set in ancient Greece, med­ieval Denmark and modern upstate New York. has placed his latest work in Vermont. 
In his reading Gardener adopted the accents of his Vermont farmer characters. The story has Vermont colloquialisms scattered through­out, a by-product of Gardner's time spent teaching at Bennington Col­lege in Vermont. 
The section Gardner read gave descriptions of a pair of coeds from Bennington College which drew bursts of laughter and applause from the audience. 
Gardner prefaced his reading by explaining that there are thousands of languages spoken in the world today. Some linguists carry this observation so far as to say that each individual has a personal language. 
Men speak a different language from women, just as children speak differently from adults, Gardner noted. With everyone communicat­ing on different levels, he wonder­ed how it is possible in America to have democracy especially when people "fundamentally refuse to communicate." 
October Light explores and illus­trates this thought, by juxtaposing the conservative, Yankee world of a 73-year-old Vermont farmer, and the liberal, sophisticated New York world of his 80-year-old sister who comes to live with him. 
The problem of communication is further compounded when the two have a fight and refuse to talk to each other. Gardner said he ex­poses both characters to a variety of forms and types of communica­tion throughout the book. 
Gardner explained that he is trying to contrast the worlds of old and new America --the mythology of Washington and Lincoln, and the liberalized America of today. 
The presentation lasted over an 

An overflow audience in the Library Auditorium listened to john Gardner last night as he recited from his latest book. (Photo by Mike Kron) hour and was followed by enthus-At an afternoon workshop, 
day morning featured Borges ad­
iastic applause from the audience. Gardner answered questions from 
dressing an audience in Spanish.
Several times during the reading, students, and spoke a great deal on 
The Sophomore Literary Festival
the crowd burst into laughter in writing, focusing on student writ­
will continue tomorrow with a 
response to descriptions or state-ing as well as his own. 
lecture by poet Robert Hass at 8
ments made by characters in the Another workshop held yester­
p.m. in the Library Auditorium.
book. Shortly after the start of the lecture, knocking was heard on a 
ND professor participates in 
fire door in the rear of the auditorium. After the knocking persisted for a while, Gardner 
scientific ethics workshop
interrupted his reading and comic­
by Mike Villani Fetal tissue appears to be "very
ally asked the audience, "Is that 
Staff Reporter useful, of great importance, and
for me?" · 
unique in human research," ac­
After the lecture, Gardner re­
Dr. Harvey A. Bender, Notre cording to Bender. He attributes
sponded to a question, stating that 
Dame geneticist and professor of this uniqueness to its experimental 
he did not feel he was turning away 
biology, participated in a workshop value. In a genetic sense, fetal
from his medievalist background 
on "Ethics and Human Value 
tissue is capable of a maximum of
by usfng modern themes and 
Implications of Science and Tech­50 passages, whereas human tissue 
settings for his most recent works. 
nology" last month at Lake Placid, allows for only 15-20.
He explained that October Light 
New York. Passages are different in succes­
uses much 19th century American 
The meeting was organized by 
sive generations. Each generation
philosophy, "the old style capitalist 
the W. Alton Jones Cell Science allows the scientist more study
ideas," in its plot and structure. "I 
Center for scientists and adminis­
material. Due to fetal tissue's
steal from those guys all the time," 
trators who are concerned about unique qualities, certain advances­
he said, referring to medieval 
the use of human tissue for 
in medicine were attained. Bender
authors in general. 
research. cites, "the development of polio
Using ideas or word structures 
Bender said that a combination vaccines and the discovery of
from older works is a ''way of 
of factors determine whether or not 
RHOGAM to immunizue a child
getting added richness" into his 
a fetus is alive. He claims, "a 
with a negative RH blood factor
own work, he commented, also 
consideration of heart-pulse, 
again~.t the dangers involved with
adding that he feels many of his 
E.K.G. readings, respiration, and 
such.
lines echo Dante's. 
other deciding factors together are 
The scientists at the workshop all 
Gardner took part in two work­
necessary to determine a fetus' 
agreed with Bender that it is
shops earlier yesterday, appearing 
functioning state." He stressed 
critical to do experiments and use
at one in the morning with Jorge 
that not just one of these factors 
fetal materials for the benefit of
Luis Borges, the Argentinian 
should be a determinant. In obtain­
superior results in medical re­
author who opened the Festival on 
ing fetal tissue for research, Bend­
search. The ethicist faction felt an
Sunday. The two authors discussed 
er said "therapeutic abortions al­
increased sensitivity to what's go­
BeowuH and other Anglo-Saxon 
low for such and the strictest 
ing on in fetal research, the moral 
poems, and answered questions 
controls and methods are used in 
from the audience. (continued on page 3)
acquiring them." 


r
r----2---~-h-e_o_b_s_e_r_V_e_r____T_u-es_d_a-y,-F-e,-b-ru_a_ry-17-, 1-9-76--~-----~---·----------­

; ,___-News Briefs-­t:=======Intemationat f Publisher's passport impounded 
NEW DELHI India--The Indian government as impounded the passport of a prominent newspaper publisher who has been a critic of Prime Minister Gandhi's clampdown on the press. 
The action was revealed yesterday when Cushrow Russy Irani, managing director of the Statesman and an active member of international press associations, filed suit in the Calcutta high court to get his passport back. 
Kissinger goes to Latin America 
CARACAS, Venezuela--Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger began his much-postponed trip to Latin America yesterday hoping to keep divisive issues such as Cuba and the Panama Canal as far in the background as possible. 
Peron cancels special session 
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina--President Isabel Peron decreed an end to a special session of congress last night in the midst of a 24-hour business strike against her economic policies. 
A government announcement said the congressional session was closed because of recent Cabinet shakeups and the need for new legislation to cope with the national crisis. 
I==========================Nationa 
Escaped love bird found dead 
LAWRENCEBURG, lnd.--A 6-foot-2-inch, lovesick Rhea bird that tore down a five-foot fence and escaped from its owner's home here three days ago was found dead yesterday, apparently from exposure. 
The 160-pound bird, valued at $500, apparently became tangled in a fence and died from exposure. The bird's owner, William Brasier, said the South American bird named Boomer probably was more agressive than usual because it is the mating season. 
Truck hits school bus, four dead 
LAKE PLACID, Fla.--A tractor-trailer smashed into a school bus loaded with children at a fog-shrouded intersection yesterday, killing the bus driver, three youngsters and injuring 52 other pupils. 
''The truck apparently failed to yield and hit the bus on the right front side," said a spokesman for the Florida Highway Patrol. 
Tenneco pays politicians 
WASIDNGTON--A Houston-based international conglomerate has voluntarily revealed making payments to politicians in the United States and to individuals in 24 countries. 
Tenneco Inc. reported the payments in a report filed over the weekend with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Company officials said the statement was filed voluntarily because of growing concern about such payments made by other companies. 
~-On Campus Today--.. 
12:15 pm --seminar, "computers in life science", by dr. theodore crovello, rm. 278, galvin center. 
3:30pm --computer course, "introduction to basic", rm. 115, math bldg. 
4:30 pm --seminar, "the mystery of maize", by dr. george beadle, rm. 278, gal. aud. 
7 pm --freshman fencing, fencing gym, ace. 
7:30 pm --prayer meeting, charismatic, Iafortune rathskellar. 
8 pm --televised seminar series, "the application of career education concepts in the post secondary institution", by dr. kenneth hoyt, rm. 106, northside hall, iusb. 
8 pm --recital, marcel bardon, little theater, smc. 
8 pm --sophomore literary festival, robert haas, lib. aud. 
9:30 pm an tostal committee, Iafortune amphithe­
r t 
by Frank Tennant Staff Reporter 
St. Ed's is the October winner of the Rockne Trophy. The HPC presented the award at their Tues­day meeting. 
The award, initiated this year, is presented for superb achievements and excellence in hall activities. Each hall submits an activity sheet every month and a panel with Fr. Robert Griffin, Dean of Students James Roemer and Assistant Pro­vost Dr. William Burke determine the winner. 
Steve Hoestersy, St. Ed's pres­ident, noted three areas in which the hall excelled. The first, activities within the hall, included a talk by Dr. Emil T. Hofman, a hall party without alcohol and the hall's unique newspaper. 
The second area is Community Service. Hoestersy praised Paul Campagna, community service commissioner, for his management of the job. St. Ed's collected for United Way and had the largest contribution per person of all halls, over a dollar person. St. Ed's also ran a Renew program with Lewis Hall where they helped fix-up 
Petrovich to speak on art at IUSB 
Dr. Michael Petrovich, of the University of Wisconsin at Madison will speak on "The Religous Art ol Old Russia" on Wed. Feb. 18, at 8:15p.m. at IUSB. 
Petrovich, whose lecture will be 
accompanied by slides, will discuss 
such subjects as the purpose of the 
icon in Eastern Orthodox Christian­
ity, the connection between Rus­
sian and Byzantine art and the 
evolution of distinct schools of 
iconography within Russia. 
There will be a reception for 
Petrovich in the faculty lounge 
after his talk. The public is invited 
to attend the lecture. 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and lo'l'eekJy during the sumner session, except during the eXiiiT6 and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Carre and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $18 ($10 per semester) fro"Tl The Observer, Box Q, Notre Carre, Indiana 46S56. Second Class postage paid, Notre Darre, IN 46556. 
THE 
RESUME PLACE 
8 1
25 /2 X 11 
RAG BOND 
Only $2.55 
insly·prints 
203 N. MAIN SO.BEND, IND 
289-6977 
St. Ed's wins 2nd Rockne Trophy for excellence in hall activities 
housing for poorer South Bend service project. Lewis and Flanner residents. also held a dance without alcohol. 
In the third area, campus-wide Tack said it was a success and events, St. Ed's co-sponsored the praised by both rectors. Halloween Dance. Hoestersy said, Hoestersy believes it significant ''Although we lost money on it, we that Lewis, the newest girls' dorm, felt it necessary to have a dance on and St. Ed's, the smallest dorm, campus for Halloween." are the first two winners. "It 
Hoestersy is pleased that the shows what a hall can do,'' he said, HPC initiated the award because "a community working together." "it recognizes the fact that hall life is important." "It encourages hall 
(*The Observerl
governments to provide a mean­ingful experience for the resi-Night Editor: Bob Brink dents." Assistant Night Editor: Jim 
Hoestersy said his officers, Guy Stevens Wroble, Steve Euvino and Joe Layout Staff: Bill Rivard Kusper helped a great deal in hall Day Editor: Don Reimer government cooperation. Copy Reader: Giacomo Luigi 
The first recipiant of the of the D' Aurora Rockne Trophy was Lewis Hall for Editorials: Ken Girouard the month of September. Features: W.S. Nichols 
Lewis Hall President Pat Tack Sports: Fred Herbst, Ray cited freshman orientation and O'Brien, Bill Brink community services as major activ-Typists: Mel Celeste, Tess ities for the hall. "The orientation Clemens went well because of good organ-Night Controller: Dave Rust ization," she said. Picture Screener: Mike Kron 
Le~is sent g!rls to. Health ":in lAd Layout: Joe Graif J Nursmg Home m thetr commumty -­
~~~~.__.~~~~~~~~~~..-,.-.~ 
~RMANDO IS NOW LOCATED NEAR CAMPUSf tTO GIVE YOU THE CUT OR STYLE YOU WANli 
I 
c:;4!7..m.ando'1. 8a7..be7.. & c;)fai7.. ~t;le ~/;oj2 ~~ 
vPEN SIX DAYS A WEEK 
MONQ.\Y THRU FRIDAY 6 TO 5:30 -SATURDAY 6 TO 4 
t PERSONALIZED SERVICE t 
'ARMANDO FEMIA 1437 N. IRONWOOD DR. ' ' PHOr~E 277-0615 SOUTH BEND. INDIANA ' 

f FOR APPT. t 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
! · TED ! 
I iNUGENTI 
t ~ t
I SPECIAL! I I TILL I 
t NEXTt
I 
MONDAYI 
I $4.29! I 

t 
t
AND SEE TED NUGENT 
t WITH STYX LIVE AT THE t MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM I 
SUNDAY FEB. 22nd 
I 
AT 8:00 P.M. t 
• 
-L-----­
RECORDS 
I 
919 I College Sq~are Mishawaka, lldia1a 
' 
' 

-~ ~-------­
~-----------------~ 
Tuesday, February 17,.1976 the observer 3 
SLC favors increased social space 


The Proud Bird with the Golden Tail. 
by John DeCoursey Staff Reporter 
The plans for increasing social space for students, endorsed by the Student Life Council (SLC) Feb. 10, arc presently being implemented or studied further according to John Reid, chairman of the Social Space Committee. 
The Social Space Committee presented 13 proposals to the SLC for consideration and the Council voted to support 12. The proposals arc designed to provide places besides dorms where students may gather after studying or on week­ends. The proposals also provide activities for the students at these places. The majority of space and activities are located in La Fortune Center. 
Two proposals which will be implemented shortly are a sound system to be installed in the main lobby area of LaFortune, and a 
Biology professor attends workshop 
(continued from page 1) questions involved, and the ques­tion of who decides what research is justified. The scientists also established the fact that more understanding on our society's part is needed towards fetal research. They ques­tioned the moral implications on uterine research between mother, fetus, and the two taken together. For example, it's unethical to operate or perform experimental investigation on a woman without regard to whether or not she is pregnant. The attorneys present felt that with all the opposing viewpoints from various groups within our society, the law cannot resolve whether such research is permis­sible or not. The legal concern arises with the discovery of new scientific ad­vances and the problems that arise from such. One of today's such issues is the subject of Informed Consent. There is no real definition to this consent that a person gives to his doctor before an operation. According to Marshall S. Shapo, an attorney present at the work­shop, "there is very little in the way of what attorneys would call law on the subject." The profes­sionals at the workshop grappled with this question and came to no real decision because no real definition exists. Is it self-decision? Is it a person's approval to have his body exploited? According to the Nuremburg Code, adopted in theGerman War crimes trials, the subject of exper­imentation "should be situated as to be able to exercise free power of choice, without the intervention of any element of force, fraud, deceit, duress over-reaching or other ulter­ior form of constraint or coercion.'' The most rending problem here involves the acquisition of tissues from patients who are unable to make an informed decision to submit to an investigation that is a promise for mankind, but not for themselves. Shapo cites a particu­lar case of the injection of cancer cells into debilitated elderly pat­ients in a test of the speed by which their bodies would throw off the foreign cells. The researchers were certain of the results but not so certain that they would make themselves sub­jects of the experiment. These subjects were not told that the (continued on page 6) 
Chess Club plays South Bend team 
The Notre Dame Chess Club will play the South Bend Chess Club in a match this Wednesday night in the basement of the South Bend Public Library, 122 W. Wayne at 6:30p.m. The chess match is open to students and faculty. For transportation, call John Newcom­er, club president, at 272-1913. 
television for use in LaFortune. Plans also have been made con­cerning weekly activities in the ballroom of LaFortune. Presently the Social Space Committee has scheduled a series of comedy film clips to be shown in the ballroom. 
On Feb. 24 and 26, scenes from old TV comedies like Leave It To Beaver will be shown. On March 2 and 4, film clips of bloopers made while shooting scenes for movies and TV will be presented and on March 9 and 11 the Committee will present a spoof on horror shows. Also scheduled for the ballroom is a weekly card night. 
Other plans which Reid hopes will be fulfilled shortly are the opening of the Rathskeller 24 hours a day on a trial basis. In conjunc­tion with this is the possibility of the Nazz featuring campus talent every night from 8:30 to 11:30, with Darby's continuing to open at midnight. Food prepared through the University Food Service is tentatively to be served at the Nazz and Darby's from 10 p.m. til2 a.m. 
According to the proposals, the major renovation planned for La Fortune is the construction of a 
Now, Continental's United States at 37%off. 
LOS ANGE HOLL YWOO BUR BAN LONG BEAC ONTARIO SANTA ANA 
Spring for less by getting your ticket 14 days before SpringVacation. 
large restaurant •'based on the Barnaby's concept of good food and a relaxing atmosphere." 
"This restaurant along with the activities in the ballroom and the Rathskeller will hopefully attract students from around the campus to a central location," Reid said. 
"We want 'to get students out of their dorms to meet people from other dorms. The renovations of LaFortune in themselves will not attract people to the building, but people will frequent the building if 
there  are  various  services  and  
activities  offered  within,"  Reid  
added.  

Other proposals designed to provide meeting spaces outside the dorm are the development of the area between Nieuwland, Hayes­Healy, LaFortune and the Hoynes Building as a park-like setting including tables, benches and an outdoor stage. 
Plans are being made to use the pay cafeteria in the South Dining Hall as a large food sales room during the evening. Pizza and Stewart Sandwiches can be served without the use of the main kitchen equipment. 
"Hopefully the park plan can be 
realized this spmmer, and we hope 
to use the pay cafe in this manner 
on a trial basis before the end of the 
school year," Reid said. 
The Social Space Committee Report also suggests that the dining halls be used more often during non-meal hours as social space areas. 
The two remaining proposals are student lounges in each of the major classroom buildings and use of unused space in dormitories for small informal social gatherings. 
"We want to provide other places besides the dorms for stud­ents to get together after studying to relax and socialize," stated Ken Girouard, a member of the Social Space Committee. 
"All the proposals," he contin­ued, "are basically feasible. We have been working on them since November. Prior to presenting the proposals to the Council we con­tacted all the people who would be affected by the proposals, and they were receptive to them." 
Reid added that a suggestion box will be set up during the films and during other activities and that 
You save 37% off the cost of a regular round-trip Coach ticket. There's no lower fare available. For example, you save $60 between Los Angeles and Denver; $105 between Chicago and Los Angeles; and $66 between Houston and Miami. 
With our new lower fares, you still get many of the extras that Continental is famous for. 
On most ofour wide-bodied domestic DC-10's you'll enjoy free filmed entertainment, free stereo, the only Coach Pub in the Sky at no extra cost, and optional food service. 
On our spacious 727's you get overhead storage, fold down middle seats when unoccupied, and free stereo. 
And with Continental it doesn't take a lot of extra effort to save a lot of money. All you do is make your reservations and pay for your ticket at least 14 days before your flight. 
You must stay at least 7 days and no more than 30 days~ That's all there is to it. To take off37% this Spring Vacation, call your travel agent, our partner in getting things done, or Continental Airlines. 
*Continental will provide information rc~arding specific flights and numbn ofseats available. Our 37% d1scount apphes throughout the year, excluding the period from June I. 1976 to S<·ptember 15. 1976 when a 28% discount applies. Children's fare applies a~es 2-11. Coach Pub is not available on Hawaii through scrvic<·. Fares subject to change without notice. 
students are encouraged to give suggestions for other activities. Students can also contact other members of the committee: Judy Arenson, Susan Darin, Kathy ,De Pauw, Kevin Kenney, student members, and Jim Brogle of Psvchological Services. 
JULIO'S 
NOW HAS 
PAN 
PIZZA!!! 
PHONE 232·7919 

-~----~--~-~--------------­

*1J~J21~~~~rver 
Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­mentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, cartoons and regular columns express the views of their authors. Column;space is available to all members of the community, and leHers are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Editorial~: 283-1715 News: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Business Manager Tom Modglin Advertising Manager Tom Whelan 
EDITORIAL BOARD Teny Keeney Blitor-in-Chief AI Rutherford Managing Editor Jim Eder Exealtive Editor Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor Bob Mader News Blitor Maureen Rvnn Campus Editor Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor Ken Bradford Copy Editor Val Zurblis Wire Editor Tom O'Neil Features Blitor Bill Brink Sports Editor Dan $anchez Senior Night Editor 
Tuesday, February 17, 1976 
~ 
Our First Reply 
The Observer has sometimes been accus­ed of missing the really big stories. Sometimes we are inclined to agree: one suspects that the key decisions at Notre Dame are made behind closed doors, months before anyone outside the Dome hears anything. But we do get the small stories, so we could hardly have missed our illustrious SBP' s recent protests that we have been ignoring his accomplishments. 
One of these protests was a handout modestly entitled ''Our First Newsletter.'' The other was a column appearing on this page last Fiiday. <We were glad to give Byrne the space and corrected his punctua­tion and grammar free of charge. ) Even on first reading, these epistles reveal a major misunderstanding and several notable omis· sions. 
Adversary relationship 
Byrne obviously misunderstands what an ''adversary relationship'' between the press and the government means. It does not mean, as he seems to think, that the two are in a permanently hostile relation. It simply implies that the press should not become so friendly with the government that it fails in one of its primary functions: to present an independent and even-handed critique of the government's activities, showing its succes­ses, failures, and ordinary worldngs as accurately as possible. Certainly this is not a relationship that honest and effective politi­cians need to protest. 
Byrne feels that we have not met this standard. It is a high one and he may not be entirely wrong: although the Observer tries to be fair we may not always succeed. In fairness, however, we must point out that some of the items on Byrne's list of 
"problems  he  'solved'  "  are not quite  
accurate:  
Problems solved?  

In his newsletter Byrne mentions the food co-op registration drive. He fails to mention that the co-op never got off the ground and that one of the "difficult problems" blocking it was Student Government's loss of the records of those who registered and deposit­ed their money last year. 
He mentions that his people spoke against a neighborhood zoning proposal. Strangely, he forgets to mention that the proposal passed. 
He takes credit for the "restructuring of the Student .life Council'' but fails to note that the tripartite body restructured itself, doing much of the job last year. Flexibly adjusting time as well as memory, he also takes credit for the fact that last year's SLC asked Father Hesburgh for the extension of parietal hours. 
With a reiilalitable reach, he pats himself on the back for getting the Administration to set up a place to cash University payroll checks. If we were immodest we could do the same, since we made the suggestion in an editorial soon after Gilbert's closed. 
Failing memory 
This list of omissions could go on but we certainly do not want to appear one-sided. Byrne is correct on several points. Tom Black and his team did a superb job of lobbying for the drinking age bill. Mike Gassman and his team succeeded in getting a reasonable calendar out of the Academic Council--which is quite an accomplishment. Diane Merton and the rest of the Student Government group were crucial to the success of the 50 +12 Seminar on alcohol. 
But again our respected president's memory seems to fail him. He forgets that we praised Black's and Gassman's efforts in editorials and that we devoted a four-page supplement (graced by Byrne's own picture) to the alcohol seminar. 
Byrne begins his column by admitting that until the Observer republished his platform he "hadn't thought about (the) 'promises' in quite a while.'' Reminding forgetful politicians of their campaign promises is just one of the services an "adversary" press performs for the electorate. We were, of course, quite surprised to see the president protest so much. 
Ftnther investigation needed 
We do find ourselves in complete agree­ment with at least one of his newsletter's reiilalits: "You should seek confirmation of every claim made here before accepting it as true." Many of his claims require fuller investigation and we will investigate them in the fairest and most thorough way we can. 
We trust that Mr. Byrne will not protest. 

0Eli6HTCIJ, MR.. YCS, 511<­
6000 
t/. SAY, 00 YOU YOU W/f.L BE
HI. 50R.RY tV£NIN&, 
I'M LATe. MR. f)(Jf<C. I'M 
KMJWANY7H!N6 EXP/3CTW TO 
Predictable 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii andy waterhouse 
Thursday evening at LaFortune one could have witnessed a somewhat predictable meeting: the students versus the administration versus the faculty and so on. Some important questions were raised although some panelists managed to use the meeting as a convenient podium. Three administrators said in summary that ND is a great place to be, a great community, you students are great and you are all going to be greater persons when you leave (because of ND). Three cheers for Notre Dame. In other words you students do not have any real problems, just trivial concerns. All in all, everyone managed to talk right past each other, except when it got down to nitty gritty and well worn trivia. In other words, drinking on campus, in one's room, by the keg, by the drink, etcetera. 
Parietals were another subject for debate, as the question of hours is concrete and easily disputed. Despite the theory that parietals are supposed to preserve privacy, I can't think of anything more invasive of privacy. However, when some asked whether or not the halls might be allowed to decide how to restrict their own privacy, the matter was put to rest because the Board of Trustees has had to decide on parietals four times in four years and Fr. Hesburgh doubted they would consider the matter again. Fine. The matter is settled. Our ''Christian community'', a term so often alluded to in reference to ND, is ruled by decree (admittedly only in ultimate policy decisions) by a body of persons who only visit the campus, at best. 
When the parietals question was "settled" as noted above, not one person questioned whether or not this kind of decision-making leads to Christian community. Granted, the Board of Trustees does have the legal right and power to hand down and enforce these rules. I am not arguing this point. However, it appears that a person or organization's power in governing our community is inversely proportional to their closeness to the community itself. How can an organization physically and socially estranged from our Notre Dame community purport to know what rules we need--what life style is best suited for us? 
It seems that a true Christian community would imply equal footing and mutual concern among its members. But there are those in our present situation who think of themselves as our parents, and use the family as an analogy to the ND community·, although they are not in touch waith our everyday life and are not available when a crisis hits--like real parents are in a real family. I think these people are mistaken in attempting to model the ND community after a family. 
The effect of modeling the ND community after a family has left the students in the position of children, powerless to change the rules imposed from above. This situation creates frustration in the students which results in outbreaks such as food fights en masse where the students resort to physically throwing something as an outlet. 
So, what can we do to eliminate this type of decision-making which has caused ND to be termed a corporation (among other things)? The suggestion of laying the burden of physically maintaining the community on the members themselves--the students, faculty and administrators-might be an effective beginning to create a Christian community. But the impact of this step could also be limited by the community's lack of independence. 
Everyone then would actually be living with each other and not be just spatially juxtaposed. However, until changes are made away from our present direction, the concept of Notre Dame as a "Christian community" will be meaningless, only to be used in PR material. And the responsibility for finally enacting these changes lies with those presently in power. 
This isn't to say that the Board hasn't served the University well, (ND does provide high 4uality education and is an essentially though debatable free institution), but perhaps they should differentiate between internal and external affairs of the community and recognize where their forte lies.. I don't really expect any big changes during my stay at Notre Ilawe-the attitude at ThUfsday evening's Town Meeting convinced me of that-but no ~son, president or student can contin~~¢ to call "us" a Cbnstian community until there are some baste changes. 



f.J) 0
::::J
-z
.....J 
u..l
::::J CQ 
<( 
Q.. CJ 
~ ><(
0 1--CJ 
..
. . ...... 
t: 
~ 
<( 
~ 
Tonight at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium the Sophomore Literary Festi­val will proudly present Robert Hass, one of America's finest rising young poets. 
Born in San Francisco in 1941, ·Mr Hass was educated at St. Mary's College (Oakland, California), from which he received his bachelor's degree in 1963; in 1965 Hass obtained his master's from Stanford University. 
Field Guide, published in 1973, is Mr. Hass's famous volume of poetry. Mr Hass's poetry is also published in The Young American Poets and American Poetry Anthology (1975) as well as many magazines, including The Hudson Review, Nation, choice and Poetry. "Lament for the Poles of Buffalo" is one of his best-known poems. 
Mr. Hass has taught at State University of New York at Buffalo and is currently teaching at St. Mary's College in Oakland, having been faculty advisor to SDS in 1970 during the escalation of the Cambodian War. Mr. Hass writes of nature and. social issues as well as alienation and war. 
In the foreword to Field Guide, Stanley Kunitz comments, "Some poems present themselves as cliffs that need to be climbed. Others are so defensive that when you approach their enclosure you half expect to be met by a snarling dog at the gate. Still others want to smother you with their sticky charms. Reading a poem by Robert Hass is like stepping into the ocean when the temperature of the water is not much different from that of the air. You scarcely know, until you feel the undertow tug at you, that you have entered into another element. Suddenly the deep is there, with its teeming life." 
Kunitz continues, "Hass is permeated with the awareness of his creature self, his affinity with the animal and vegetable kingdoms, with the whole chain of being. The country from which he has his passport is the natural universe, to which his imagination He is most at home writing of his native Pacific coast. but he carries his 

********** The Bicentennial * * ********** *********** * and Notre Dame ********** **~-*******  

Fr. Sorin Meets Dulac 
by Bob Grant 
Upon their arrival at Vincennes, Indiana, nine weeks after their departure from Harve, France, Father Sorin and the six brothel's had to decide where they would settle in the Vincennes Diocese. 
Bishop Hailandiere had several places in mind for the group. One of these was at St. Francisville on the Wabash River, only a few miles from Vincennes. But Father Sorin declined it. The bishop and a priest in the diocese, Father Delaune, then suggested St. Peter's, one of the first missionary stations in the Vincennes Upon inspection, Father Sorin The group would settle at St. 
Father Delaune agreed to help Father Sorin and the Brothers acquaint themselves with the mission, especially since neither Father Sorin nor any of the Brothers could yet speak English. 
Bishop Hailandiere enumerated various tasks for the group--among these included 


establishment .of a school for the 
The school was a great success. was worthwhile to leave St. Peter's. For Not only did the school at St. Peter's attract days, they prayed, pondered, and consult­a numerous enrollment, but a few months ed with one another. They finally decided later Brother Gatian also opened another to move on to South Bend. 
In view of the progress, Father On November 16, 1842, Father Sorin and 
n thought of building a college. The hi!> group left St. Peter's. Of the seven 
objected to this idea, however, Brothers that accompanied him, only two 
ng that there already was a college in were of the original group from France­
diocese at Vincennes. Another college Brother Marie, formerly Francis Xavier, 
not needed. and Brother Gatian. The others were 
iut the Bishop offered the group a piece Brother Patrick, William, Basil, Peter and 
land in South Bend, in northern Indiana, Francis. After 250 miles of rugged 
order to build a college. Father Sorin traveling, they reached South Bend about 
the Brothers had to decide whether it November 26. The group went first to the 
j I
Tuesday, February 17, 1976 the observer 5 
I 
passport with him wherever he goes. Natural universe and moral universe coincide for him, centered in a nexus of personal affections, his stay against what he describes as ''the wilderness of history and political violence.' For one so caring, an occasional lapse into sentimentality would be understandable, but a reliable sense of humor and a certain aspecat of down-to-earth plainness in his makeup prevent him from going soft. He does not, for example, break into tears over the sufferings of his skillet-bound cabezone: it is enough that he has transformed its 
ugliness into beauty and dignified its fate in the act of confrontation. To a troubled friend in another poem he remarks, 'This 
world did not invite us' ". 
Kunitz also quotes Mr. Hass's statement of poetics from a collection of young poets, "I like poems for the peace involved in reading and writing them. I began writing seriously when I found that I could write about myself and the world I knew, San Francisco and the country around it, in a fairly simple and direct way. For a long time I felt a compulsion to direct myself to a large issues; this was mainly due to the cant I acquired around univeristies about alienation. About the time that the Vietnam War broke out, it became clear to me, that alienation was a state approaching to sanity, away of being human in a monstrously inhuman world, and that feeling human was a useful form of political subversion.' ". 
The conclusion of "Palo Alto: The Marshes", a poem of American history, displays Hass's style: "Bird cries and the unembittered sun,/wings and the white bodies of the birds, /it is morning. Citizens are rising/to murder in their moral dreams.'' 
Comparing Mr. Hass to other writers, and pointing out the forces which have influenced Mr. Hass, Stanley Kunitz explains, "At first glance Hass appears to be an expansive poet in the open tradition of Walt Whitman and William Carlos Williams; but gradually we perceive his attachment to more private imaginations, including those of Wallace Stevens and Theodore Toethke. Some of the energy of his writing can be attributed to the contradictions of th is ancestral line. An added element is the influence on his ·work 
of Chinese and Japanese poetry, evident in the scrupulous purity of his observa­tion." 
Considering Mr. Hass' most important works, Kunitz writes, "Two of Hass' most ambitious poems, "In Weather" and "Lament for the Poles of Buffalo," considered in conjunction, display the versatility of his gifts. The former is that rare contemporary phenomenon, a testi­mony to the persistence of married love 
through a long winter of the metamorpho­
ses of the heart. Hass already knows what 
i
it took Pound a lifetime to learn: "If love 
I 
be not in the house there is nothing" (Canto 116). "In Weather" is intimate, lreflective, tortuous, sensuous, a compul· jsive journey through the labyrinth of 
I
landscape into the mystery of affections. In contrast, "Lament for the Poles of Buffalo" is a public poem with a documen· tary base, dense with allusions to the local history of upper New York State, agitated and propelled by the thrust of current 
I
affairs. It is the most topical of Hass' poems, and one best served by a commen­tary. A note on its background will 
l 1
illuminate many of its details." 
Kunitz also recounts Hass' experiences with the SDS at the State University of New York at Buffalo in the following: "In 1970, at the time of Cambodian escalation, Hass 
I
was faculty advisor--an entirely titular 
l I
position--to SDS (Students for a Democrat­ic Society) at the State University of New York at Buffalo. In this capacity he was subpoenaed by the grand jury convened to 
I
investigate antiwar activity on the campus . 
I
At one level this is a poem of civil 
I
conscience, an outcry of sorrow and 
j
dismay, complicated by the irony of the 
l
poet's investiture as a leader of mad 
l
bombers and subversives. At another, 
j
more meditative level it is a probing for the 
A
meaning of roots in a deracinated commu­
j
nity, by a man who is himself cut off, at 
I
least temporarily, from his Pacific source as well as from the mainstream of the national will." 
"Robert Hass," Kunitz adds, "is a poet who sits easy in his skin. One is not accustomed to encounter, in the work of a contemporary, this much elan, this much celebration of 'the quick pulse of blood.' Almost every page demonstrates, with singular clarity, the satisfaction of an art committed to making 'felt connections' between words and body, between body and world. These poems are as much anm expression of an organic principle as the activities of which they are an extension-­walking, eating, sleeping, lovemaking-and they are equally pleasurable, equally real. Field Guide is an event as much as it is literature. 
It Is ancient 
Imagination and It begets, 
this order with the random symmetries 
of mallow poppies In the Deld 
the dying and green leafing of the 
grass, 
meadows crackling In the midday heat, 
alive with seed. It translates easily. 
(from "Lament for the Poles 
of Buffalo") 
home of Alexis Coquillard, a prominent citizen, and sometime later, saw their new community. Father Sorin expressed !lis first reactions upon seeing Notre Dame in a letter to Father Moreau, his very close personal friend and associate in France. 
''A few hours after our arrival in South Bend, we came to Notre Dame, where I write you these lines. Everything was frozen, yet it all appeared so beautiful. The lake particularly, with its mantle of snow, resplendently white, was to us a symbol of the stainless purity of Our Lady. 
pur accomodations here appear-as indeed, they are-but little different from those of St. Peter's. We hurried about looking at the various sties...like little children, in spite of the cold, we ran from one end to the other perfectly enchanted by the beauty of our new home...We found the place too small to accommodate ns for the night. And as the weather was becoming colder we hurried back. to the village where we stayed that night." 
NEXT-Building Notre Dame 6 the observer Tuesday, February 17, 1976 

Art exhibit opens in O'Shaughnessy 

by PhD Cacldey Senior StaH Reporter 
Over three hundred people at­tended a reception opening an exhibit of "The History of Notre Dam!! in Art and Photography" Sunday I afternoon at the Notre Dame Art Gallery in O'Shaugh­nessy Hall. 
The exhibit consists of over 100 photographs, paintings, etchings and sculpture showing the growth of Notre Dame from the 1840's to well into the 20th century. The largest percentage of works are photographs. 
Especially noticeable in the ex­hibit is the change in the physical layout of the campus and the structure of many buildings. Photographs show baseball dia­monds where the North Quad presently is, or horse. barns on the site of the South Dining Hall. 
Also expressed by the show is the change in student life that has taken place over the years. A number of pieces show the grade school children who used to attend the University and who lived in St. Edward's Hall, and photographs of students' rooms in the 1880's are crammed with Victorian bric-a­brac. 
The reception was planned to coincide with the release of the book The University of Notre Dame: A Portrait of its History and Campus by Dr. Tom Schlereth, professor of American Studies. Schlereth was supposed to auto­graph copies of his book at the reception. 
Schlereth was present at the reception, although the book was not, due to problems with the printer. The book is being printed by Ave Maria Press and is expected to be released within 10 days .. 
Peter Winkler, assistant to the director of the gallery, said the attendance was about average for the type of event. He did note however, that probably 50 per cent of the people were students, which is very high. 
The exhibit has drawn large numbers of students, Winkler felt, because of its local interest to members of the Notre Dame com­munity. "It gives people a sense of where Notre Dame's been and their book," he noted. sources, such as photographs, can 
He has spent three years work-show about the past. ing on the book, one and a half of Dr. Dean Porter, director of the which has been for collecting gallery, said he was disappointed materials, and another year writing the book was not available for the the book. Schlereth said he has reception. He said he was pleased combined written and visual mater-with the turnout, especially the ials to show what student turnout, for the reception. 
SHOP THE TOWN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER 
-THE BEAD GALLERY- 
millions of imported beads  f·  
JUTE....,;,WAXED LINEN-POLYESTER  -r· I  
TWINE-READYMADE & MADE TO  
ORDER-MACRAMEJEWELRYCOMPLETE  
LINE OF MACRAME surPLIES  
919A' W. Mc~inley Ave.  1  

(next to Boog1~ RecordsL_J 
~iiiimm~iiiiiiii-m ~~~-------. 
-COUPON­THIS COUPON WORTH $5.00 OFF ON ANY PAIR OF BLUE JEANS 
Good thru Feb. 22nd 
TOWN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER STORE 
I( ., CCII S 
men's shop, inc. 
The reception was also the public continue until March 7, and the opening for a showing of photo-Walker Evans show will remain graphs by Walker Evans from the until March 14. Also presently Harry Lunn Gallery. Evans was one being shown is a collection of of America's greatest photograph-American art from the permanent ers, best known for his portrayal of collection, titled "An Almost Chos­everyday life in the Depression. en People--the Moral Aspirations 
The Notre Dame exhibit will of Americans." 
Jl.__ Macrame Beads & Supplies Lll Shop and compare before you buy 
S 
~·~ Largest bead and macrame f~ J!t_ supplies selection in 
lilA Michinna! 
2340 miracle lane mishawaka, indiana 46644 
219/256-0111 
Now aBose Direct/Reflecting bookshelf speaker and its under $100. 
If you thought it couldn't be done, you don't know BOSE. Because the new BOSE MODEL 301 speaker is just that. A bookshelf speaker that provides reflected and direct sound performance in the tradition of the internationally-famous BOSE 901 ® and 501 speakers. 
It provides such astounding performance for its size that frankly, it's hard to believe that this speaker costs under $100. But it does. And, it's easy to place and can be adapted to all 
room environments. Come in this week and ask to hear a demonstration of the new BOSE MODEL 301 Direct/ Reflecting® bookshelf speaker system. You really won't believe it ... until you hear it. 
m  
SM  
~  
i £  _.DOS~  
:i TOWN AND COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER  ~[)­ 
~­ 
RT.20  
431 No. Hickory Rd. So. Bend  

where it's going," he commented. 
Most of the pieces in the show have not been framed, Winkler explained, because of difficulties in framing a number of the photo­graphs and etchings. He also said the pieces have a more direct appeal to the viewer mounted directly on white walls. 
Schlereth said he was very pleased with the reception and the exhibit. "Not many authors have the chance for a gallery showing of 
Biology professor attends workshop 
(continued from page 3) injected tissue was cancer cells, because the resultant bodily reac­tion would gradually disappear and the investigators considered it not to be a source of increased risk. Such cases were discussed by Bender and his fellow professionals as to the legal, ethical, and scientif­ic judgments involves. They all agreed that the existing strict and rigorous governmental controls on the acquisition of human tissue for experimentation are mandatory and critically needed. In comparison, Bender found Notre Dame's policy on the protec­tion of human subjects to be thorough, complete, and within the realm of law. They further discus­sed the implications involved in the government made it difficult to obtain tissues. According to Bend­er, due to our critical need for it, such an instance would be detri­mental to future advancements in human research. Bender sees the future as "re­vealing mandatory answers to present-day and upcoming ques­tions with the continuance of scientific research." 
Come You Fightin' Irish 
TO TOWN &COUNTRY  
FOR YOUR FAVORITE  
WINES-LIQUORS  
Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM  
LIQUOR • WINE  
10% DISCOUNT  WITH ND-SMC 1.0.  
BEER· BEST PRICE IN TOWN  
VOLUME  DISCOUNT  
WE'RE  FREE DELIVERY  
BEHIND  FREE DELIVERY  
THE  
IRISH  


Tuesday, February 17, 1976 
the observer
Athletics first priority 
Loeffler and staff keep ACC running smoothly 

by Paul Stevenson Staff Reporter 
Running an athletic complex that's larger than Houston's Astro­dome is no easy job. 
Preparing the main arena of the ACC for basketball practice, for example, the immediate day after the last performance of the Icc Capades is made possible by 
Robert  Loeffler  Jr.,  operations  
manager of the ACC.  
Loeffler is the  man  behind the  

scene in charge of maintenance, housekeeping and preparation for athletic and special events at the ACC. Loeffler and his full time staff of 27 people and 40 part time students do the work that is frequently taken for granted. 
Loeffler. a 1958 Notre Dame graduate, has been operations manager since 1968, before the ACC was even completed. His work entails preparing the arena for basketball games, preparing the north dome or pit for other varsity sports and setting up for and cleaning up after different shows, concerts and dances. 
The Ice Capades, an event that will keep Loeffler and his staff busy through the weekend, will be performed on a temporary rink in the main arena. "After the last performance on Sunday, we will run up the compressor until the ice becomes very brittle. Then we will chop up the ice, load it on dump trucks and haul it away," Loeffler said. "Then we lift up the tarps and the arena is ready for basketball once again." 
Loeffler and his crew have to prepare for every varsity sport played in the ACC. "The Great Lakes Fencing Tournament," in March, is scheduled to take place in the north dome of the ACC, but 
Barnum on campus-wide campaign to help dritJkers 
by Frank Tennant Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame's Alcohol Counsel­or, Peggy Barnum, is on a cam­paign to make people aware of drinking problems. 
A recent addition to Psycholog­ical Services, Barnum is in their offices on the third floor of the Infirmary. She was hired in Nov­ember, 1975, to fill the need for a counselor solely concerned with alcohol problems. Barnum said other schools have recognized this need and Notre Dame is a few years behind. 
Barnum's primary activity is providing education and informa­tion about alcohol to University faculty, staff and students. She emphasized that she is here for everyone and not just for students. 
Also involved in consultation, Barnum meets with individuals and in group sessions. Private or group meetings arc the choice of the individual. Barnum said she also wants to provide an awareness of Alcoholics Anonymous to all per­sons, men and women, at Notre Dame. 
As part of the campaign, Barnum has been visiting dorms this semes­ter to educate hall residents and staff about alcohol and drinking problems. The program is flexible and she runs it the way hall staffs believe would be best. 
Viewing the film "Chalk Talk" is a central part of the meeting. The film, featuring Fr. Joseph Martin, was made by the U.S. Navy to increase awareness of drinking and alcoholism within the Navy. Bar­num said, "Martin is effective because he is an alcoholic and speaks from personal experience." 
Barnum found many people did not know Notre Dame had an alcohol counselor. The Observer is part of her campaign to let every­one know she is available to the Notre Dame community. 
Barnum called the Observer articles on drinking "informative." She stated they were good because they could "stir people" to realize a problem, possibly not with them­selves but with another. Explaining that she is here to help people help others, Barnum noted that through education one may see a problem with a friend or relative and then Barnum can counsel that person in helping the other. 
Alcoholics Anonymous is just one phase of the campaign. She plans both open and closed Alcoh­olics Anonymous meetings on campus. The first open meeting will take place on February 23 and will feature Red K. from Michigan State. 
RESEARCH 
FREE CATALOG! 
Write or call for your copy of our latest catalog of over 5,000 re­search studies. These studies are designed to HELP YOU IN THE PREPARATION of: 
• Research Papers 
• 
Essays • Case Studies 

• 
Speeches • Book Reviews WE ALSO DO CUSTOM WRITING 


MINUTE RESEARCH 1360 N. Sandburg, #1602 Chicago, Illinois 60610 312-337-2704 

WENEED200 ENTERTAINERS 
Singers, Dancers and Variety Performers 
Marriott's Chicago area family fun center opens May 
29. Be part of the action by participatmg in open audi­ttons for one of 200 summer performing positions. Cassette recorder. record player. and piantst avatlable for your 3-mtnute audttion. 
.Mornoll'5 
IIIIA7 ANIRICA.. 
Saturday, February 21-10:00 a.m.-7:00p.m. Sunday, February 22-12:00 Noon-3:00p.m. Indianapolis Marriott Inn. Indianapolis, Ind. 
if the hockey team continues their excellent play and makes the WCHA playoffs, we'll have to fix another location for the fencing team," Loeffler commented. 
Of the many events in the ACC, the Notre Dame community has priority over the South Bend area. "One way to describe how things are done would be to say that the Athletic Departments are the ten­ants of the ACC, and they have first crack at the scheduling," Loeffler stated. "All the other events are scheduled around athletics and the student body." 
Preparatory work for an upcom­ing event may be started very late. Preparations for the annual Ice Capades have been started in the past as late as midnight the night before. At the conclusion of the engagement, Loeffler and his crew have been known to work all night so that the arena will be ready for basketball. 
Often, numerous events are scheduled at the same time, just complicating the work for Loeffler. "On Saturday, March 13, there will be two NCAA regional games and a high school game in the ACC main arena. After the regional games, the baskets will be moved in and the floor remarked so that the court meets high school regulation size," Loeffler remarked. 
Robert Loeffler Jr. knows he will be busy continuously. "All Satur­days and Sundays are filled up for at least the next year,'' Loeffler Robert Loeffler Jr., operations manager of the ACC, prepares the complex for coming events. (Photo by Mike Kron) said. "Some events arc scheduled tionship to dances now calls for three or four years in advance." preparing the Monogram Room for 

"Students seem to be participat-student affairs. ing more in dances," Loeffler There arc many chores involved noted. "When I attended school in the upkeep of the ACC. Many do here, we used to have to wait in line not realize the work involved from for prom tickets that were handed caring for the racketball courts to out by lottery. The dances then preparing for a basketball game, were held in the now extinct Old but Robert Loeffler Jr. and his staff Navy Drill Hall." Loeffler's rela-know how much it takes. 
WANTED!!! 
Editor-in Chief of Dome '77 
SUBMIT APPLICATIONS (EXPERIENCE & PERSONAL STATEMENT) TO DOME OFFICE, 3rd FLOOR LAFORTUNE. For More Info, Call Dana: 7524 OR 8067. 
WANTED 
Need 3 Marquette tix. Jack 3597. 
Need 2-4 GA Ma·quette tickets, will pay ~ur price. Call Tom 8334. 
Three girls need ride to Indianapolis, Feb. 20 or 21. Call 4662. 
Salesmen, part-time irrmediately. lnlan· gible sales, oommissions. Call AIMS 277-2922. 
Need manyWMUtix. Call233-9841 after 11 P.M. 
Desperately need 1 or 2 GA Marquette tickets. Call Bob 1214. 
Desperately need four Marquette tickets. Call 1683. 
2 Marquette tickets. Rease call Terri 287-6638. 
GA tickets for Marquette. Call Tom at 7781. 
Need GA and student tix for Marquette badly. Please call Pat 1654. 
Need 5 Marquette tickets. Call Eileen or Marion 6798. 
Need 4 Marquette tickets for old alullTli willing to negotiate$$. Call 3258, 9-12 
P.M. 
MANAGEMENT TRAINEE 
To$14,000 Ready for a new career? We are interviewing for a management training program that will allow ~u to earn $25,000 or rrore in 5 years v.tlile representing our top team of financial specialists in Slulties, Insurance, Niort· gages and lac shelter.;. Send ~ur resume to : cnartes M. Nevvt>anks 120 W. LaSalle Suite 906 South Bend, IN 46601 
Need rider.; to Pittsburgh this Thursday. Bill 1653. 
Classified Ads 
NOTICES 
TYPING: $.35 per page. Pick-up and Delivery $2.00. Call Dan 272·5549. 
Village Voice with the CIA Report leaked by Daniel Schorr now at Pandora's Books, 937 South Bend Ave. 
LIFE IN THE SPIRIT SEMINARS BEGIN Tuesday, Feb. 17. For information, call Karen 1312 or IV1iJry Anne 1338. 
Freshmen: Last dlance to buy a '75 dogbook! If ~u'd like one, oome to Student Union. 1·3 P.M. MWF. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. DJnoho 232-0746. 
FOR SALE 
Blue-gold NO jacket. $ or will barter for drugs. Call 287-6758. 
1968 D;x:tge Charger 318, automatic, power steering, great oondition, snow tires and Mag v.tleels included. $600. Call272-1710 or 272-4777 after 5:30P.M. 
Disneyland Murals from Mardi Gras for sale. Call 1348. 
Brick ranee within walking distance to Notre Dame, 2-3 bedroom;, finished basement, auto11111tic sprinkler.;, garage door opener, air oondition, and many extras. $42,000. Call 232-0780. 
LOST AND roUND 
Acked up bro1M1 ski jacket identical to my OIM1 In Fat Wally's Sat. night, with glasses in pocket. Need my o\Ml bro1M1 jacket back desperately. call Dennis or Mark 8944. 
Found: set of keys in front of Lewis. Saturday rroming, identify, call Britty at 287·8826. 
Found: near the north door of the Huddle, St. Mary's dass ring, 1967. Call Mike 288-1237. 
PERSONALS 
Pat. See ~u at the prayer ~TEeling in Rathskeller at 7:30 tonight. 
A ash!! My surprise is not 11111king me guess happily. Who are ~u? IV1iJry c. 
My dear sweet Bobo: Is my love truly unrequited? Give me some sign of affection. Secret Worshipper 
Weight Waidler.; of Notre Dame have a lot of dead -ight lying around. Meeting every night at 12 midnight for tree oounseling, pasta. Call Ma11111 "B" 6798. 
Got a question about drinking? Red K. of Midligan State Univ. will have some answers at the open discussion ~TEeling of Alooholics Anonyrrous. 7:30 P.M. IV'OO. Feb. 23, Athletic Aud., ACC 
Everybody -!come. For rrore informa· lion. Call R809. 
IWNOISANS CAN YOU SPARE WEEK-END TO HELP IN GOVERNOR WALKER'S RE­ELECTION CAMPAIGN? TRANSPORT­ATION,LDDGINGANDMEALS PRO­VIDED. FOR DETAILS, CAU. THIS WEEK, CATHY 284-4103. 
You deserve a treat. Come to TACO RICO, Scottsdale Mall. 
Countess, Your royalty is really showing through. You certainly have that touch of dass, even if ~ur thoroughbred isn't from the LDIIIIIands. Beau geste. 
The name of the hall Is IQ'lOIM1 to all. 
Wad<.y Its said, Is In a place v.tlO's namesake Is dead. 
Secret admirer, You gave me your hENri. Now .how about ~ur name. It's leap yel!l'. 
LDST· Auld Mechanics book and note: 
book. Reward . call Cris 3328 LDST-keys ill, 1067 and 2 small key5. Reward. call 57 54 
-
the observer Tuesday, February 17, 1976 
A.D. blitzes Butler, Irish win 92-79 
by Bill Brink ~ Sports Editor ~ 
Indianapolis--While the rest of the state watched Purdue bow to Indiana on television, a few hearty fans showed up at Indianapolis' Market Square Arena to see the Irish of Notre Dame down the Butler Bulldogs 92-79 last night. 
A crowd to only 4,500, the smallest number to witness an Irish contest this year, watched Adrian Dantley, Notre Dame's All-Ameri­ca and resident punching bag, score twenty-one second-half points to pull the Irish away from the scrappy bulldogs. In between elbows and hipchecks the battered Dantley connected on 11 of 21 field goals and 5 of 5 from the gift line for a total of 27 points on the night. 
"Obviously Adrian is a super player," said Irish coach Digger Phelps after the game. "He was in a position where he was getting a lot of coverage and yet he still controlled the game, as he did down the wire. And he's an unselfish player too. That's why he's so great." 
Dantley's second-half surge was accompanied by an aggressive full-court press that flustered But­ler and forced several crucial that's how we're going to play." few minutes, and the game pro-turnovers during the Irish's spurt. It was the press and a resurgent ceeded to get rougher and rougher. Tenacious pressure in the back­Dantley which pulled the Irish off With 9:43 left Bruce Flowers got court caused several turnovers on to a quick start in the second hal.f, poked in the eye, and on the inbounds plays and a number of with both A.D. and Ray Martm ensuing inbounds play Dantley other errors. leading the way to as 51-41 margin appeared to be fouled also. When 
"As far as the press, that's our with 3:34 gone in the period. The no penalty was whistled Phelps, style," asserted Phelps. "We play Irish kept the pressure up and soon who always protects his players, a full-court game. That's how we moved out to a 62-45 lead three drew a technical foul for hi!. want to play, and when we're going minutes later. protests. The Bulldogs then staged with nine or ten players in a game, Both teams traded baskets for a a comeback which threw a scare 
Shake-up in interhall basketball standings occurs; leaders upset 
the lead change hands several points as Joe Burger and Daveby Ray O'Brien times. Grace II jumped off to a fast Bushelle added 10 points apiece. start, but St. Eds I pulled within a Flanner III notched their eighth 
Interhall Basketball action was point, 28-27 at halftime. They decision in a row in a forfeit ;lowed this week as the Irish entered the fourth quarter with a decision over Stanford II. oasketball team played two week­four point lead but could not protct Cavanaugh I bounced back later night games at home. Neverthe­it. Ken Harris and Randy Harrison in the week by crushing Off-Cam­less several upsets were posted scored five points in overtime while pus V by a score of 63-27. over top teams in the games that St. Eds I was shut out. Both Harris Cavanaugh I relied on a balanced were played. and Harrison scored 17 points for attack with ten players scoring. 
Fisher I (5-0) remained a half the upset minded Grace II team. Greg Garcia led the way with a game ahead of Morrissey I (6-1) in Dave Schlitchting played brilliantly game high of 19 points. Luke League I as neither team saw any in a losing cause while scoring a Phillipsen sparkled in a one man action this past week. show as he scored 17 points for the
game high of 21 points. ·John 
losers. Cavanaugh I is now 7-1 and
• Off-Campus III (7-0) sat quietly Dziminski added 14 points for St. at the top of League II this wee!< Eds I as they dropped to 5-2 and a one game out of first place. 
after posting two wins last week. tie for second place with Keenan I. Alumni II stretched their unbea­
ten streak to nine games with aHowever, their lead still increased Flanner III broke the undefeated victory this week in League IV. 
as second place St. Eds I dropped a tie for first place in League III by Second place Off-Campus VI nar­squeaker to Grace II in overtime by romping over Cavanaugh I 58-44. 
rowly escaped with a 42-39 decision a score of 50-45. This game saw Bob Mcquade led the way with 12 over Grace IV and weren't so lucky later in the week as an upset minded Flanner IV team trampled them by a score of 56-43. This knocked O.C. VI to 7-2 on the season and two games behind league leader Alumni II. 
Cavanaugh III looked unimpres­sive in a 42-34 win over Flanner V early in the week. This was an omen of bad things to come for Cavanaugh as second place Pang­born II upset them 53-51 to halt their unbeaten streak at eight games. The teams were deadlock­ed 24-24 at halftime. Pangborn II jumped out to an eight point lead and held off a late Cavanaugh surge for the victory. Larry Packenham, Todd Sladek and Larry Shepard scored 10,10 and 12 points respectively. Marty Kopenhaffer took game honors with 16 points for Cavanaugh III. 
Pangborn II came from behind to nip Stanford II 60-61 later in the week. Larry Shepard led the way with 18 points as Ted Stepovich added 13 points. Jim McCaron, Dave Gorecki and Tom Thompson scored 20, 16 and 17 points respectively in a losing cause. Pangborn II had a four point lead at halftime but quickly saw that evaporate after being outscored by eight points in the third quarter. This set up the late fourth quarter scoring spree that clinched the win. 
Pangborn II wins upped their record to 8-1 and pushed them into a tie for first place with Cavanaugh III in League V. 


Irish took a quick lead as Bill 
Paterno scored their first six 
points. Butler came right back on 
driving scores by forward Barry 
Collier and outside bombs by 
Burris, and the game was tied at 11 
apiece with 13:47 left in the half. 
Dave Batton, who was back in the lineup after missing last Satur­day's game because of an ankle injury, came on to score nine points in eight minutes, and ND opened up a 32-23 lead with 5:40 to go. But Burris hit a fifteen foot jumper and then a three-point play to bring the Bulldogs back, and the Irish finish­ed the half with a slim 41-37 margin. 
Butler's .615 shooting percent­age from the floor in the first half kept them close, as did their opening 2-3 zone defense which effectively handcuffed Dantley. They switched to a man-to-man defense midway in the half which, if it did not handcu"ff A.D., certainly cudgeled him enough to neutralize him. The rest of the Irish picked up the slack until A.D. found the openings in the second half. 
Once again it was a balanced team effort, as ND was just three points shy of listing seven players in double figures. As it was, five hit the ten-or-better mark. Bernard Rencher and Toby Knight both notched twelve and Don "Duck" Williams and dave Batton hit for eleven. Bill Paterno finished with nine, and Martin had eight. Dantley led in rebounding with eleven, while Knight pulled off ten caroms. 
For Butler Burris finished as the game's high scorer with thirty points. Barry Collier chalked up 18 and center Jeff Fehn scored four­teen. The Bulldogs trailed ND in the rebounding category, 40-24. 
The victory was the Irish's twelfth out of the last thirteenth games. Butler dropped to an 11-12 record. Notre Dame continues its road trip on Thursday when the Irish face Fordham in Madison Square Garden. 
kers for the winners. Judy Shiely contributed a number of fine assists to aid the Irish offense. 
The N0tre Dame women aided their effort with marked improve­ment from the free throw line. 
Duffy was pleased with the team's overall performance, noting that their offense was clicking and that their defense was consistently strong. The coach is looking forward to the team's remaining three games. 
The team hosts St. Joseph's from Rensselaer on Thursday night in the ACC Pit at 7:30. The Irish then have a rematch with St. Mary's on Feb. 25 and take on Marquette on Feb. 28. 


into Phelps and the Irish. 
Led by Wayne Burris, who shot from everywhere on the court and hit almost half the time, Butler cut the sixteen point margin to ten, and then a dangerous eight, 79-71, with 3:311eft. But Dantley hit a leaping layup, followed it with a three-point play and then Toby Knight sunk four straight points to put ND up by fifteen with 1:53 remaining. Both coaches then substituted freely. 
"Butler played very well," said Phelps. "They had a high shooting percentage and really hung in there. I'm happy to win on the road. We're 18-4 and very happy to be where we are." 
Notre Dame was charged with a technical before the game began when Dantley was caught dunking the ball in pre-game drills. But Burris missed the foul shot and the 
by Eileen O'Grady 
The Notre Dame women's bas­ketball team defeated Indiana Uni­versity-Purdue University at Fort Wayne 56-49 Friday night to avenge a loss earlier in the season. 
Coach Sally Duffy saw the win as significant since it indicated the improvement of the team. "The team has had a change of atti­tude," she said. "Now we have a lot more confidence and pride." 
Led by Barb Frey and Marge Meagher, the Irish played a tight zone defense that kept the visitors 
from penetrating to the basket. 
Guard Carol Lally led the Notre Dame attack with 21 points while Maureen Malonev added 15 mar-

