


Barbara Breitenstein Senior Staff Reporter and Reed King Staff Reporter 
An Tostal. the annual Irish spring festival, is a 
weekend of "fun and frivolity," and this year at Notre 
Dame it was ··a tremendous success,'' accoridng to 
Bob Quakenbush, An Tostal executive committee 
chairman. 
"Keep the show going." was the An Tostal staff's 
unoflicial motto, and. although the weather was 
threatening throughout much of the weekend. most 
at'livities went ahead as planned. 
"We were fortunate with the weather," Quaken· 
hu!>h commented. "The rain was well-placed. It 
rained on Fridav night. when most of the activities 
were inside arivway, and the rain on Saturday 
afternoon didn .,-spoil the activities in the mud." he 
remarked. 
Gentle Thursday 
The festival began on "gentle Thursday" with the Trivia Bowl. held on the South Quad before a crowd of 
over 200 people. Contestants went through six rounds 
of trivia questions. with remaining participants 
winning special An Tostal mugs. 
Next on the agenda was a "Jock's vs. Girls" basketball game, played before a capacity crowd behind the bookstore. The girls defeated the jocks. who were slightly handicapped by boxing gloves. The frequent antics of the players and referees often broke the crowd up with laughter. 
After the game, a hungry group of students moved over to St. Mary's for a large An Tostal barbeque. At the ~amc time, the semi-final round of the Bookstore Basketball Tournament was being played on the hoohtore court. 
I hat evening several other events were held on the North Quad. A Chicago band. "Sahara", played throughout the entire evening. complementing the other al'livitics. A jail was set up in the middle of the quad to hold the captives of student "vigilantes". For a quarter. a person could impriso_n ~nothcr student, and the captive was able to buy hrs freedom only by bribing the jailer with fifty cents or by subm_itting to a barrage of pies, bought by spectators at a ~rme ea~h. 
A dunking booth was also set up on the quao.. Bystanders purchased baseballs and attempted to htt a small target. Good shots were rewarded by dunking such celebrities as Mike Gassman, Candy O'Connor In the group grope, several couples were blindfold­
ed, spun around, and allowed to feel around for their 
mate. The funcathlon was a strange form of 
Olympics, with teams of contestants nvolved in 
unusual races and other events. In the unusual object 
contest. participants brought in the strangest 'm 
they could find. The winning object was a coat rack 
made out of three deer's hooves. 
The climax of the evening was the Mr. Campus 
contest. About 400 people watched the event which 
was held on a special lighted walkway constructed in 
front of Sorin Hall. 
The winner of the contest was Tom Young, a senior from Cavanaugh Hall, who mimicked Tom Jones as his display of talent. The crowd went into an uproar when Young appeared on stage for the swimsuit competition with two bikini-clad women. This performance earned him the top place in the swimsuit contest. 
Tom Maschmeier, a senior from St. Ed. 'sHall, took second place with an imitation of a "seductive" woman. His evening gown earned him first place in the evening wear divison. 
Frivolous Friday 
Despite a late afternoon rainstrom that drenched bookstore basketball finals and caused the "jam­ming" competition to be cancelled. Frivolous Friday was ''a big success,'' according to Mike Casey, Friday co-chairman. 
Beginning at 1 p.m. with a giant sack race and lasting until midnight with Recess 176, Friday was full of games. These games included an Pgg toss, a jello toss. in which one player attempted to throw a block of jello in the mouth of his partner, an Aaron Burr-Alexander Hamilton-style water balloon duel, car stuffying. a keg toss, impersonation and amateur hour competitions, and the most popular event, the tinals of the bookstore basketball tournament. 
"The early events weren't that well attended," Casey commented, "because people were going to classes. They didn't want to join in because they might mess up their clothes but I was surprised with the turnout anyway, especially at the egg toss." 
The line of participants for the egg toss, the second event, the jello toss and the water balloon duel stretched across the width of the South Quad, where Friday's events took place, and thirty people stuffed themselves into a car to win the car stuffing contest. 
"The keg tosswas one of the biggest attractions of the afternoon," Casey said. "It was really exciting to see those guys throwing those big kegs around, especially when Ross Browner threw one wide, into the crowd." 
(continued on page 2) 
Being the more experienced mudslingers, The Observer naturally won over Student Government in the three-legged mud soccer event on Sunny Saturday. (Photo by Chris Smith)
... 
-i, 1 
Pennsylvania primary slated for tomorrow 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Two Democratic presidentail candidates said yesterday President Ford want s to delay the revival of federal campaign subsidies because he doesn't need the money for his own Republican race. 
But Jimmy Carter said Congress was at fault and predicted the aid probably won't be restored before the primary elections are over. 
Carter, Sen. Henry M. Jackson of Washington, Rep. Morris K. Udall of Arizona, Alabama Gov. George C. Wallace and Sen. Frank Church of Idaho spent an hour answering questions on a national­ly televised interview program. All but Church are on tl:l.e ballot in Pennsylvania's presidential pri­mary tomorrow although Wallace complained that his candidacy is not getting proper attention. 
"I wish that the national news would dictate that I am a candidate , " he said. " ...I want the people of Pennsylvania to know I am running." 
Most of what the candidates had to say in their joint appearance on the ABC-TV program "Issues and Answers" was in restatement of positions and forecasts that they have been discussing on campaign platforms. There was a moment's confrontation between Jackson and Carter over salary scales and the union shop in the South. 
The former Georgia governor insisted workers in his part of the country are paid wages comparable to those in other regions. Jackson scoffed at the claim. 
But the five-man show was hardly a deba te. When it ended, Carter, Jackson and Udall went back to their personal vote-hunting on a rainy, chilly day. Wallace already has concluded a brief Pennsylvania compaign. Church is not entered in primaries for anothr two weeks, running first on May II in Nebraska. 
Carter was campaigning in the Pittsburgh area; Udall met with black supporters and then went to work on a five-minute speech he is to give on national television tonight, and Jackson went to Harrisburg for a private fund rasing meeting. 
All three candidates have com­plained about the lapse of federal campaign sabsidy funds, cut off for more than a month because of congressional inactin after the Su­preme Court rules that the Federal 
Election  Commission,  which  su­ 
pervises  the  campaign  aid,  was  
improperly appointed.  

A bill to revive the election commission is expected to gain passage this week, but the Presi­dent has not said whether he will sign it. Republican congressional leaders have said there is a risk of veto because Congress revised the campaign spending law instead of simply reconstituting the election commission. 
Presidential candidates of both parties have a total of more than $2.5 million in subsidy claims awaiting approval by the commis­sion, once it gets into business again. 
Congress to meet 
by Neal Mongold port among student government Staff Reporter members, expecially the new on­es.'· commented Moschella. ·'All The new Student Body Congress of the hall presidents arc newly will hold an introductory meeting elected and several of the new class tonight at 7:00 in the LaFortune oflicers arc unfamiliar with Notre 
amphitheater. The congress is an Dame government." 
experimental assembly intended to The alliance among student go­unite and inform the various stu­vernment associations according to 
dent government -associations on Moschella. should provide the stu­dent government with better focus­ed and more potent influence on uni1 L'l'~ity m'\Uers. The meeting will deal in p!rt with ~ummer plans so that next year the government will be ready to start when Sl·hool docs. "Such past disasters as outruge· ous basketball ticket prices, and the calendar contlil·t hopefully wou­ld be more easily handled," Mos­chella said. · The new congress is inten<kd for the benefit of the student govern­ment members and all of the student body, according to Mos­chella. who added that the idea has been well rel·eived by many, inclu· ding J. P. Russell of the HPC and former SLC Chairman Ed Byrne. It has been tentatively planned to have three Student Body Congrl'Ss meetings for next year · one at the beginni,.g of the fall semester. bctwel'n semesters. and at year's end. 
'1-...._~, .. 

~~Jilt'--.::;'i_ 

~-----------------­
the observer Monday, April 26, l976
2 

News Briefs----.. Art Best 'grows up' at Kent State 

t=========lntemational 
No military aid 

DAR ES SALAAM, Tanzania -Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, on a seven-nation African tour, said yesterday the United States "does not plan to give military aid in any form to the nationalistic movements in Africa." But he said the Ford administration will use its economic and political influence to bring about black majority rule in southern Africa. 
Nationalist guerrillas gain 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -Black natiuonalist guerrillas waging hit-and-run border warfare are scoring mounting successes in their tirhgt to topple white minority regimes in Rhodesia and South Africa. 
Portugal moves to center 
LISBON, Portugal-Returns from Portugal's first free parliamentary election in SO years showed a move to the political center resulting from a conservative backlash that would exclude the Communists frnm the go\'ernmcnt. The results set the stage for the ouster of the Communist party from the government of this NATO country for the fir'it time since the overthrow of the rightist dictatorship two years agl). 
IRA supporters march 
DUBLIN, Ireland -Nearly 10,000 defiant supporters of the Irish Republican Army marched through Dublin yesterday in an illegal demonstration in memory of Ireland's 1916 Easter uprising against Britain. 
t:======================National 
Robbery and kidnap spree 
JACKSON, Ga. -Apparently angered over a drug deal, an ex-convict went on a two-state robbery and kidnap spree, killed three people and wounded 13 others before killing himself, authorities said. The outburst began in Jacksonville, Fl.. left a bloody path up Interstate Highway 75 through central Georgia and ended here yesterday when 31-ycar-old Moses Pearson of Jacksonville killed himself. 
Health costs national problem 
W AS·HINGTON -A presidential panel, calling rising health costs "a national economic problem,'· reported yesterday the average family now pays 10 percent of its total income for medical care. 
.,._,On Campus Today---... 
3 p.m. --academic council meeting. room 100-104, cce. 
3:30p.m. --faculty colloquium, "the critical theological dialogue between orthodox and roman catholic churches" by rev. edward kilmartin s.j., n.d. library lounge. 
5:15p.m --evensong vespers, log chapel 
6 p.m. --play, "the balcony" by jean genet. administration~ bldg. no admission charge but tickets required. limited seating. for futher information call 284-4176. 
7 p.m & --film,· 'henry V" with sir laurence olivier. engineering aud.
10 p.m. 

7:30 & --old tv classics, Iafortune ballroom. admission 75 cents free popcorn.
9:30 p.n1. 

7:30 p.m --meeting, alcoholics anonymous. library aud. 
H p.m. --lecture, "I iterature and violence in twentieth century ireland," gratton freyer, Jirector of irish humanities center. ­
8:15 p.m. --cameo recital, prof. sue h. seid, organ and marie 
-parnt:'ll, viola room 204, hoynes hall. for reservations 
call 6211 or 3025. limited seating. 
'l )()p.m. --talk, digger phelps at stanford. 
111 idn ight --the album hour, wsnd 640 am 
KENT, Ohio (AP) -"I've got peace of mind now. I think I've grown up a Jot. I want to show I'm not what people have heard I'm supposed to be," said Art Best. 
The 6-foot, 205-pound running back once was a regular at Notre Dame before he was dis­missed • 'for violation of university regulations." 
So instead of finishing his college football career with the Irish, Best will he performing this fall with Kcm State in the Mid-American Conference. 
··1 don't want to get into what h1ppcncd at Notre Dame." said ;he youngster from Columbus. 
Ohio. "All I want to do is produce at Kent State. 
"I want to gain 1.000 yards, do well enough to get a chance at pro football. Today and the future are what counts." 
Best has speed, 4.5 seconds for 40 yards, and size. He has demonstrated he has the ability to be a superb runner. In three Notre 
Injuries and complications with the coaching staff cut down his playing time as a junior. 
Dennis Fitzgerald, Kent State's coach. has encountered no prob­lem~. 'aying. "if was supposed to he a difticult person. He hasn't hcl'n that wa\ here. I thi11k he's pretty good people and a darn good prospect. .. 
Still, Fitzgerald takes a low key appraod1 on his outstanding trans­fer. "We're not building the team around Best. We're building the team around the best 22 players. Art has demonstrated he can be one of them," said the coach. 
It's ironic that Best should wind up at Kent State since he signed a conference letter of intent before going to Notre Dame. 
This time Kent won out over Georgia Tech, Miami, Fla, and Tennessee because of its architec­ture school and a two-year scholar­ship for a single season of eligibili­ty. 
ND celebrates An Tostal 

(continued from page 1) 

Dom Famuele, a JUntor trom Morrissey Hall won the impersona­tions contest for the second year in a row with his impressions of characters ranging from Howard Cosell and Ed Sullivan to campus personalities such as Fr. Robert "Griff" Griffin. Second place was taken by Terry McHale, a junior from Zahm Hall, who along with four others, imitated Mick Jagger and the Rolling Stones. 
The crowd's favorite performer, however, was not a Notre Dame student, but a 31-year old man named Mark Ludwig, whom the emcee introduced as from Misha­
waka. Ludwig, who at first would not perform, briefly imitated 
Professor's son found dead 
Donald Duck, then stomped of the stage, hollering. The crowd roared with laughter, and kept calling for Ludwig to return throughout the remaindrr of the show. Ludwig failed to repeat his performance. 
Although the sky hadclouded by late afternoon, threatening weather did not drive away bookstore basketball fans, who climbed trees, 
ladders, the roof of the bookstore and whatever else they could find to see the final game of the between the TILCS 

and the Average White Team. 

Rainfal began shortly before the half of the game. but the spectators remained to see the TILCS win in a driving rain. The award for the "jamming" or "dunking" compe­tition, which was to follow the game but was cancelled due to the rain, will be given to Bill Laim­beer, who had the most dunks in the tournament. 
Two musicians, Mike Yelle and Kenny Jones, tied for first place in 
(continued on page 6) 
SPECIAL SPRING SALE 
/Koda~J 

lnstamatic 50 Outfit 
includes camera, magicube, film, wrist strap, instructions. 
SPECIAl $82.50 liST $119..95 
AUL T CAMERA CO. 

127 S. Michi n SOUTH BEND 233-6145 

--~~ 

Huttinger to replace Johnson 
Senior Bar changes hands 
by Frank Tennant Staff Reporter 

Gil -Johnson. manager of the Senior Bar. announced the mana­gers for the upcoming year yester­day. Chuck Hullinger will replace Johnson as bar manager. with Jim O'Connell and Rich Johnson as his assistants. 
Huttinger is a junior accounting major from New Kensington, Pa. He operated food sales in Fisher Hall this year and will be head manager. i{ich Johnson is a fifth­year Architecture-Civil Engineer­ing student from Havertown, Pa. .Johnson worked as a carder and bartender at the bar this year and will he promotions manager. 0'­Connell. a junior English major from Washington. D.C .. will be bar managl'r. O'Connell was bar man­ager of a Wall's Drug Store in South Dakota. 
Twenty-nine students applied for the jobs. The selection process con~isted of submitting an applica­tion and three recommendations to the prcsl·nt managers. .Johnson said they interviewed all appli­cants. A list of Sl'Ven names were sent to Fr. Lally at Stlllknt Affairs. 
who chose the ·trio. 
''The most important thing for the new managers is that they will be starting off without any debt," said Gil Johnson. He revealed that a debt of $7,000 was paid off and a $3000 tire escape was financed by this year's operations. 
In addition to this, the Senior Bar donated $2,500 to the Senior Emer­gency Fund. Johnson said this money was given to Fr. Hesburgh and June McCauslin, financial aid officer. will grant the money on a financial need basis to seniors next year. 
''Although it seems like we made a lot of money this year, we lose money on every beer we pour now," said Johnson. He explained that enough money was made on bar cards to make a cushion to fall hack on at the end of the year. He eitcd this as the reason why the price of beer was not lowered at the beginning of the year. 
Hullinger said. "We want to continue the success of this year by providing just as enjoyable a place for seniors to get together next year." He said their main concern is to improve the general appear­ance of the bar. inside and out. 
Rich Johnson revealed two major changes he wants to effect next year. First, he hopes to have someone operate a food sales, including pizza, at the bar. He said. "It will be a nice place to bring a date and have something to eat and drink." 

The second change will be an additional bar in the smaller room behind the fireplace. Food sales will be locatecf in this room. 
''The prima y concern is to make the best use t · every room in the building," Joh 1son said. They will move the televi3ion upstairs to ease the traffic flow. He noted the dooce floor will be a flexible area with the possibility of campus talent play­ing. 
''The idea is to give the bar the ability to easily change its atmos­phere from night to night," he explained. 
O'Connell said his major concern is streamlining operations to make them more efficient. For example, he would like to reduce the number of companies from which the bar orders. 
General maintenance is the maj­or job O'Connell sees ahead of himself. The bar has not had to be renovated in two years and much work needs to be done. 
ND Debate Team wins in Hawaii 
ThL" Notre Dame Debate 'I cam ended it~ ~t'a\on ol'lT the Easler lwlid;l\ with 1ar,it1 debaters Jim Mania.n· and 1\.1;11·1..' IL·ngn taking lir\1 plan· at the llniH'r\ity of I1<111 ai1 lntL"rnational Invitational !khat,· .1nd '>)ll'l'l'h Tuurnament. 
M;1111an· and Zen~n won four and lo\t llllc' in prc·lin;inar\ debates to qualil.' for scmi·rinal~ to meet the UniHT\it\' of Oregon in the final round. The pair won the final n>uut.l on a uuanimous decision, iucluding a ballot from the Lieuten­ant (imTrnor of Hawaii. 
In addition w their debate victor­il'\, Zvngn plarL'd tir~t and Mani­aL'l' plared third in extemporaneous 'JlL'aking. NotrL· Dame was the onh \vhool to win two events. 
il·ngn. from Portland. Oregon. i' JliT\itknt of the debate team and a junior majoring in accounting. Maniacc. from Columllll\. t)hio. is a \ophonwrc. majoring in l'L'onom­il'\. 
lhi, 11 in top' an impressive dl'hall' 'l'a">n. 11 ith freshman Brian llogo~n and Tom l.ul'id taking 'L'l'llnl! pl<il'l' <II <I (OUrmnamL'nt at 
l.l .. l'.l I. .1nd gaining 'JlL'l'ial rc­cugnitl<'ll at (,eorgl'!llll n Univer­\il\. 
In lliL·c•ntt•nnlal Youth Debate eompetition in the Northern Dis­tril't of Indiana. Mark Zenger plarl'd lirst · in extemporaneous spl'aking. and Jim Maniacc and Brian Kenney placed first and second. respl'rtively. in persuasive S)ll'aking. All three were awarded bicentennial commemorative med­allion~. presented by U.S. Cong­ressman Floyd Fithian. Zenger. Maniacc. and Kenney all qualitied to participate in the Indianan State Finals. where Zenger placed secong in extemporaneous speak­ing and Kenney placed second in pcrsuadivc speaking. 
Juniors .Judy Rohb and Phil Burk\a/L' plael'd lir~t and third in L'XtL·mporanl'ou~ spl'aking at a major tournaml'nt at Appalachian Statt· llniiLTsity. quallifying them for National Extl'lllJl. Finals. Robb and Burksa;w, together with senior John Lund and frc~hman Ed Cald­well, posted winning records in debate at Appalachian State, Niag­ra Universitv. and Kent State University. Jim Maniacc and Tom Lucid also placed in the top half of a national invitational tournament at Miami lJ nivcrsity of Ohio. 
Dr. Frank Zink. a speech com­munication teacher in the Dcpart­ll1l'nt of Speech and Drama. is Director of Forensics and faculty 
'Attorney's Night' Tuesday evening 
Thl' l'rc-Law Society of Notre Dame i~ condul'ting its annual Attornl'y·~ Night on Tuesday. April 
27. in the lounge of the Memorial Lihrarv Auditorium. The meeting willl'l';llure attornl'\'.~ from Chicago and South Bend discussing various a~pcl'ls of thl'ir law practice. 
Speaking at the meeting will be David Slawkow~ki. a graduate of Notre Dame and Harvard Law School. He is now a member of the Chicago lirm of Lord, Bissell & Brook. and will offer insights into the pral'tice of law in a large corporate firm. 
Mr. .James Hall. a patent attor­ncv for the South Bend area. will di~cuss opportunities in patent law as wl'll as civil practice in a moderate-size community. 
Mr. William Voor. Jr.. chief prosecuting attorney for St. Joseph County, will describe the role of an attorney in the criminal justice system. 
· The meeting will begin at 8:00 
p.m. Hcfreshmcnts will be served following the meeting. All stud­ents are invited to attend. 
advisor to the debate team. The team is coached hv John Borkowski a third-year I;;,,. student. and Dante Orfci. a future law student who has received his degree in Speech and Drama. 
~n,;;-;s·~···1 
: difference!!! : 
: ,_MitE 1"011 : 
• MCAT 011, 15,,." •
e al llptlltMI e 
: DAT "'':em : : LSAT S.,llclnsn : 
: G R E Yolum~nous '-• • 
: GMAT ''""';,,,,.,, ! 
: Q(AT •
Courm lhal "' 
: (pAT 

const:!IJ up411td : 
• VAT Tape IK1illots lor : 
• ...,,., ar c1111 •
• SAT 

ltuons •nd lo1 ust •
• flEX olsuppltmtnlary e 
: malrtoals • 
: ECFMG .....:p, lor : 
• m11srd ltuons :
! NAT'L MED BDS : 
: NAT'L DENT BDS : 
• Moll ctaues 11ar1 8 ...,..oks : • pnor to Exam • 
Sprmg & Fell compacn Some courses offered on 

•
•
MaJor C1mpu~oe• 

• 
•
INDIANAPOL!S 

•
6620 Greenthlfe Dr1ve 

•
lnd11napoha. lnd 46220 

•
!3171 642-1267 

•
.. . . . ... . : 
CHICAGO CENTER • 

This year's Senior Bar manager Gil johnson with next year's managers, Chuck Huttinger, jim O'Connell and Rich johnson. (Photo by Frank Tennant) 
THIS WEEK 
1

MONDAY ALL DRINKS /2 PRICE WEDNESDAY DRINK 'N DROWN THURSDAY PITCHER BEER NIGHT MAGIC DAZE 
THE WHITE HOUSE INN 
CLOSED TUESDAYS 

ELSA PERETTI OPENS HER HEART 
Elsa's sculptured heart is on a chain, but it flirts up, down and around. Sterling silver heart with fifteen-inch chain,~ 34.'/ 
TIFFANY&Co. 
CHICAGO 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE • ZIP: 60611 • TEL: (312) 944-7506 
Add two dollars for shipping and handling plus sales tax where applicable American Express • BankAmericard Design Copyrighted © T. & co. 
,---------------~
I~ \


!~The Observer,I1 of course! 1 
I I
I I
Name. 

1 I
I will come to the barbecue. I I will come to the evening party. I I JI
I want a T -Shirt. Size. 
\ Now ya know who loves ya. 
~---------------' 

(~ORKY SJE(;EL BLA(KSTONE BU<:K HORN 

~\)MUSIC ~ Sat. May 8 r~ lla.m. to dusk
,.:;..-v 8 BANDS <:ON(:ESSIONS 2 STA<a:s .,-BEER (W/J.D.) ON 200 A<:RES 2 
Tickets 3.50 Advance. 4.00 Day ol Available thru Boogie Records, Record Joint, Vegetable Buddies. Suspended Chord 
MARTIN BOGMAN & THE ARMSTRONGS BRlJCE CARR SHOW 




---~----------­
the observer Monday, April 26, 197~ 
•




Hughes death rema1ns a mystery 
ACAPULCO, Mexico (AP) -The same mystery surrounds the death of American billionaire Howard Hughes that characterized the last 20 years of his life isolated from the world. 
Exactly how did Hughes, who 
was 70, enter Mexico from the 
Bahamas before dawn on Feb. 11? 
What did he do while enclosed in 
a huge 20th floor suite at Acapul­
co's luxurious Hotel Princess in the 
almost two months he was there? 
Did Hughes die in the Hotel Princess April 5 or in a small rented jet the same day on the way to a Houston hospital as authorities in Texas said? 
California, was held for three days 
before a federal judge ruled the-re
Vocal trio holds recital 
Saint Mary's music department 
will host a vocal trio recital by three upperclassmen of Notre Dan-le and Saint Mary's tomorrow night in the Little Theatre of Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's. The recital will begin 
at 8 p.m. 
Two of the featured singers in 
tomoiTow's performance. David 
Rust and .J. Craig Sullivan, are 
Notre Dame seniors,' while Pamela 
McGinley is a junior at Saint 
Mary's. None of the three is a 
music major. Their accompanist is 
Kit B. Fisher; Carol Dzikowski and 
John Fisher will play recorder. 
Tomorrow night's program will 
include pieces by Claudio Monte­
verdi, Henry Purcell, J.S. Bach, 
W.A. Mozart. Hans Pfitzner, Claude Debussy, Ralph Vaughn­Williams and Charles Gounod. The three singers will form various combinations to perform solos, duets and trios from these compos­ers. 
Rust is an English major from Greensburg. Ind., and has ap­peared in Man of La Mancha at Notre Dame, as well as other singing and dramatic productions. Sullivan, a government major from Short Hills, N . .J., appeared in The Magic Flute in 1973 and in many 
Our jet
lares to
Buropeare
lessthan
anrother
sclieduled 
airline's. $380 throug_h
Junel5,anll 
JOUcanbook
anrtime. 
If you are under 25, our youth fare is made for you. $360 round-trip New York-Luxembourg, through June 15; $410 June 16 through September 15. From Chicago, $401 through June 15; $451 from June 16 through September 15. Direct flights from New York and Chicago to Luxembourg in the heart of Europe. Fares subject to government approval. See your travel agent, write or call: Icelandic Airlines, 630 Fifth Ave., N.Y., N.Y. 10020. 800-555-1212 
~ 
ICElANDIC 
CN 
Is a will disposing of his $2.5 Acapulco immigration chief Fel­billion empire locked inside the icites Blanco and inspector Jorge impounded equipment and office Campo said they were ordered furniture that he left in Acapulco? from "higher up" to assist the 
These are some of the questions billionaire recluse's arrival. agents of the Mexico federal attor­ney general's office would like to Hughes arrived in a rented plane answer. and his aides told Blanco they had 
After two weeks, the file compil­forgotten his passport and tourist ed under the supervision of a card. They exhibited Hughes' birth federal judge is already two inches certificate instead, Blanco said, thick with sworn statements and and a new tourist card was made reports. out immediately. 
The only official record of Hughes arrival with a party of eight Blanco and Campo testified men is in the testimony of two Hughes "signed in person his Mexico immigration employees\ who immigration document," but police said they went to receive him at graphologists subsequently claim­Acapulco airport. ed an aide, Clarence Waldren 
signed Hughes' signature. ' 
Waldren, 41, of Sun Valley, 
Positions open
other performances. McGinley, a psychology major also from Short 
at Senior Bar 
Hills. has had many roles in opera and musical scenes. All three have The managets of the Senior Bar been members of Saint Mary's announce that applications are now Madrigal Singers, Collegiate Choir available for the positions of bar­and Opera Workshop. tender and bouncer. The position of 
Admission to tomorrow night's operating a food sales at the bar is 
recital is free, and a reception will also open. The applications may be follow in Stapleton Lounge, Le­picked up at the office of student Mans Hall. All are cordially in­affairs. They must be submitted to vited. that office by Monday, May 3. 
Eyeglasses-Contact Lenses-Sunglasses Sport Goggles-Binoculars-Magnifiers· 
HOUSE OF VISION 
Expert repair service -lenses duplicated The Sherland Building, 132 South Michigan Street-23.;-1468 
was insufficient evidence for a charge of forging a public docu­ment. 
The attorney general's office appealed the judge's ruling and impounded all the belongings Hughes left behind, placing them in sealed boxes. 
Anyone claiming them will have to make out an inventory in the presence of c_ourt officials. 
Lt: Col. VIctor Montemay~r, a Mexican army doc~or who also IS on call at the Hotel Prmcess, may have 
been the last outside to have a_ close.-...---~ 
-~~~~~g;;a;e~~~e;~~oa 1 -:;~Y~=~ ~ 
''Junior Nita'' 
ThL· .Junior Class will sponsor a ".luniur Nite" at the Senior Bar h'·-~inning at nine tonight. The L'' • '· · ,._ill feature a pool tourna­nh Ill. dance contest, and a raftle of 
fi\e bar membership cards. 
Beer prices will be reduced tn 30 l'L'Ill'> lor the l11 -;t hour ol the alTair. and mixed .i1i1,ks will be reduced 
ab<J. to 50 •L'IIIS. Regular prices \\ill prn;•i; l.'r the rest nf the 
C\ l'lllllg. _ . " 
Juntor ( lass Secretary Ken G1r­ouard explained that the event was 1 designed to "give our class an idea how the ~c·nior bar works." 
Proof ol age will be required. 
deep coma April 2. 
Previously, Montemayor had handled some blood and urine laboratory tests at the request of Hughes' attending physician, Dr. Lawrence Chaffin. 
Montemayor testified Hughes probably had been bedridden for months. He said that when he entered the room April 5. 
An inquest in Texas ruled Hughes died on the way to Houston but Mexican authorities are not 
sure of this 
tt··~  1  
~  
·  '  ~  
~  
"NIGHT LIGHTED''  
9 HOLE • PAR 3 GOLF COURSI!  

~rlYing Range 18 Hole Miniature~ Open Down Til 10:00 PM ~ LOCATED US 33 AT IRONWOOD iillll
I It! 
Call 288-0033 
1 
lfNaAnsCaii 2S2-2366 
171.5 LINCOLN WAY EAST SO. liND
.._&--, 11 iiilll -·-'-~WW~ 
o ~ 
~~~~ 
-:\~ ~'\ ~ 9'0~:\':J (J~~~~~
':J~~ 
measurments will be taken for 
CAPS and GOWNS 
Tuesday 
April 27 
and 
Wednesday April 28 
between 
9:00AM­
4:30PM 


Art Mt!nda_y, Ap:..:ri.:....l=2&::..!.'....:1c..:::.9.:....7&=--____t:..:h..::..e.;::____..::.o.c=b:...cs.:....e"'-'-r-'-v-=e-r_ 


Student Art Exhibit 

·~,..,.-.
Dave P. Thomas 
The annual Notre Dame Student Art They show go;d painting technique, but 
' 
Exhibition opened yesterday with a public the subjects come off as being a bit too tn-eption in the University Art Gallery in statuclikc. bringing to mind a faint O'Shaughnessy Hall. The show is sponsor­association with the humanoid ghostly ed hv the Notre Dame Art Department and figures that populate Edward Hopper's l'lll'OIIlpasscs all mediums. displaying sel­cityscapcs. Anne Peeler employs bone-like ection~ from !>tudents in art courses. Greg shapes while Sharon Ladewski utilizes Con~tantinc. chairman of the Art Depart­large washes in her abstracts which ment of Andrews Univcrsitv. located in comprise the watercolor facet of painting. Mid1igan. judged this year's. event. Printmaking is only adequately repre­
sented in the exhibition, highlights being(h cr;dl. the selections arc rather good, Billv Hassell's two "Distance" works, with 
,
dominated by paintings and sculptures, their dcvc application of straightbite and -.
while featuring outstanding works in other usc of aquatint areas in the etching
area~. Mon.: and better works could have ---,,
~~~,:-:-_.,_,:.·~
medium. His mixed embossing-collage
hccn di~pla:-.ed. hut it seems that the 
"Desert Landscape with Three Windows" ...... 
cll'mcnt (or cxcu~c) of time was working uniquel~· applies embossed minute focus. 
again~t the student artists. 
Marv McGuire has one untitled Litho­Painting is one area which everyone will graph ihat is very imposing with its lluidiclind -.ometlllng pleasing. It is primanly black shapes. accomplished through a very ,---. Ifilled "ith abstract and non-ligurativc diflintlt handling of tuschc, coupled with11orb that lean toward~ well thought-out an excellent printing technique. Rounding
uw of volur ..lim .knniewin's paintings arc Kevin O'Brien's "The Cat's Out of the Bag" (above) and Vivian Engelson's
oJT the litography :t'>Jll'l'l of printmaking arc
L'\L'L'pttonal. hi-, hL''>I work being "Thought "Spret's Delight" (below). (Photos by Tom Paulius)
t\\o of Tinwthv M. Tavlor's Relations.
~hilt". ;1 huge compo~ition dominated hy Thv~ give c:-..an.lplcs of c.olor registration,plaiiL''> of white and blue. m:-.·stcriously 
twing two and three color lithographs made arl'a of sculpture. both hard and soft.
di1 idcd h1 a gllm ing red streak. Betsy up of diagonal .I cllow tones.
.faq(L'I' ha~ t11o large oih in the show. with two prints. Ml'\al sL'Ltlpturc is well represented. as 
Along hi~ Taylor IWintcd out by Davey Cunningham'snotL'IIorthv lur their coloring and motion. 
L'\hihit'> a combination of canvas painting/ intl'I'L'sting combinations of wood and( appinl! oil thL· ab.,tral'l lield i~ Michael .1. 
con-..truction. that could be classified as L"ircular steel forms. As for soft sculpture,B,·,·k ·, gn·1 and white paintings. streaked eithl'l' a painting or a sculpture. Made up of Vivian Engelson's wool-tilled openings arc"ith ''"'''"' n1111 ing anoss the white/grey h to K inl'11 strips of ran vas interwoven on a vaguely erotic. inviting the viewer to enterL'llil II' ltl'ld-.. 
tliagunal frame. it otTers a rather unusual into them. They become a puzzlinglit•· mu'>t ,·on'>i'>IL'Ilt painter of the show. vi,ual c:-..pcriL·ncl'. 
vic11 ing experience for the spectator,hot It 111 '>II k and ,·omJHl~ition, i~ without a In '>ilk'>LTL'l'n prints. Karen Cahill's wondering what sort of secrets they might duulll 1\l'\ in O'Brien. Ik displays two very "One W;t~·" and Tom Paulius' "#5: possibly hold. Along the same line. Dennis 
po\HTiul \\ork'>. "llll' Cat's out of the (iarri.,on N.Y." from his Road series Doran a work which also
entered is an 
Bag" oil "" L·ardhoard. and "Beating the dL·wne mL·ntion. 
enigma. His "Locked Box" (an 18 inch 'I ail-ing Bu~h" an acrylic on canvas. The ticld of photography is rather bleak. 
block of wood with nail borders and 
1\L'\ in·-. 11mk~ arc vcr:-.· expressionistic; he hut with outstanding photographs of padlocked) invites examination of it. It po'>W\~,·~ a ,.,.r_1 strong sense of composi­textured smfaccs as subjects. A sidewalk, appears as if it contains a fetish. 
tion. rl'inforrl'll by hb mastery of painting mount of earth. brick building by Jack
a The Student Art Show runs until May 24. 
qualitv and dynamic brushstrokcs. His Kupsa proves his mastery of darkroom with many of the works exhibited up for tigure-. arl' built up of planes of color, munipulation. Williston Dye chooses some sale. The exhibit collects the best works 
coni ra~tl'd h1 ltcaV\' black areas such is excl'ill'nt images. his most interesting done by students over the last nine 
u~cd in "lk;;ting...· being a matchbook posted on a photograph months. It will prove to be an unusual Did Wilknhrink'~ portraits deserve of a tlamc. 
experience for both knowledgeable and the mL·tttiunon an·ount of their size (four feet). Till' other strong point of the show is the 
laymen! in art. 
Theatre 
Godspell, Virginia Woolf, and more 
Dave Rust 
The floodgates have opened, and now dynamic, was handled with much good reprimands; towering over him, Regan plays produced by or in cooperation with care and grace. widens his eyes, tweeks his nose and does the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre are But what is often hardest to make work a quick about-face on stage to get himself cvcrywherc...Stcpan Center. O'Laughlin in a production of Godspcll is the out of each ethical pinch. Finally, he is auditorium and its foyer, even under the "audience rapport" it is constructed to sealed on all sides into fulfilling the task he Golden Dome. There arc plays being engender, that overworked concept which, has already been paid 30 pieces of silver calendar, many of them directed by directed by frcclanccrs, authors, directing when it is pursued, often goes sour under for: the betrayal of Christ to the Jews. students in partial fulfillment of require­class students--and the regular season's the strain of making it work. Probably the biggest role after these ments for an advanced directing class. final offering. directed by Charles A. The problem with getting the· audience two, in a swirling cast which is constantly Earlier this month Maggie Dakoske put Ballinger: Godspcll. excited. clapping in time to the music, crystallizing into different roles and rela­on Broadway Revue 1976 in O'Laughlin 
Ever since the musical based on the what-have-you, is two-fold: to put on a tionships in order to realize Jesus' parables auditorium, and Katherine Wales offered gospel according to Matthew opened decent, solid musical, something people on stage, is the temptress/Mae West The Mlrrorman in the foyer of O'Laughlin off-Broadway in I 971, its songs and will want to clap to; and to have a group of personal played by Sally Paulis. As she this weekend. popular theology have become very much a performers who can take that extra step twirls her tassles, swivels her hips and And on Saturday and Sunday nights, part of religious celebration in the United from their restricted stage personalities whines "I like that!", she brings out the Susanne Brinkley presented a 3-hour States, and many foreign countries in and transmit something of their own sexuality latent in all Christ's followers. ten-minute-production of Edward Albee's different languages as well. personal energy to the crowd. She appears to find this sexuality even in Who's AfraJd of VIrginia Woolf'? 
But the Godspcll that opened Friday Perhaps one doesn't expect to see this Jesus himself. Her two solos, "Learn Your One might wish that, in its effort to night in Stepan Center was in the original kind of thing work these days. Expect it or Lessons Well" and "Turn Back of Man" present a season of plays by American English, which left it open to all of the not, however, audience rapport, contact, were excellently done, and she remained a playwrights in this Bicentennial year, the dangers to which the production of a very involvement was what the cast got, at least powerful personality throughout the play. ND-SMC Theatre had chosen to put on a familiar play can be susceptible. Ballin­at Saturday night's performance. play of this caliber instead of the 19th
Most people left Godspell talking about
ger's production sidestepped almost all of The cast is led by Sean Coleman (Jesus) Shevawn even if they century Fashion presented last semester.
O'Connor, didn't
them. in his first starring role, propelled by a fine But it is hard to imagine that any
know it was her name. She was the one
Could it be that "Day By Day" has been light voice and a powerfully contagious director at ND-SMC could have done a
whose body bent at all the wrong joints and
heard just too many times to be exciting smile. His energy is central to the total better job with it that Brinkley; or how the
angles and yet still stayed whole. Her 
any more? Lisa Anne Colaluca sang it acting effort. roles of Martha and Greg could have been 
passages from mock high seriousness to 
Friday and proved that false. Or"All Good His opposite is Matthew Regan, playing joyous abandon some played any better by anyone other than 
were of the most 
Gifts?" Mark Ferring's performance was the intriguing John the Baptist/Judas Theatre veterans Kathleen Rink and Daniel
memorable moments of the play. It was
evidence to the contrary. And so on. lscariot figure. His announcement of the Daily.
O'Connor who began the play, held high by 
A play that could have slid back into its Christ ("Prepare Ye the Way of the lord" Daily was fascinating as a lanky,
cast members in sweatshirts bearing the 
own crowded past, or sputtered out in a is a majestic beginning for an essentially middleaged professor playing savage life­
names of great philosophers, and who put
burst of silly gags and props that would non-majestic play. He makes a good and-death games with his wife and their
in motion the mechanical babble that two guests (J. Matthew McKenzie andwould give way to John the Baptist's Cathy Buzard). Rink was the otherannouncement of Christ's coming. 
shrieking half of this partnership whichRobin Salem sang authoritatively on her killed the son their own feverish imagina­solo number, "Bless the Lord," including tion had created as morning dawned onthe high A which climaxes the song. 
this tortuous but thoroughly engrossingOthers of the cast--Michael Ball, Sheila play.
O'Brien, Patricia Dondanville, Thomas Kathy Kelly was assistant director ofFelts and Steve Rodgers--were just as fine. 
VIrginia Woolf; Dan Duncheon was in Richard Bergman was back in his charge of set and lighting design, while •familiar position as technical director. His 
Laurie McCarthy designed the cosumes. 
set was a raked stage on metal supports at Tonight The BaJcony opens a two-nightthe north end of Stepan Center (happily, an 
stand under the golden Dome. Directed by ~arlier plan to make Stepan a theatre-in­
Mike Hudock (costumes: Melody Owens; the-round for Godspell was abandonned). 
lighting: Tom Waldoch), it will be Fronted by ramps for easy access to the presented at 6 o'clock tonight and tomor­and threeaudiem;e area portable micro­row night. Tickets must be gotten at the .. 
backed by the now-tradi­
phones, it was programming office (call 4-4176). Fresh­
tional chain link fence upon which Jesus is 
man Jeannie O'Meara is the female lead in 
finally crucified. 
this play., 
GodspeU will run next weekend at 8 p.m. Closing the season is Bill McGlinn's on Thursday, Friday and Saturday, and Beyond the Horizon, May 3-4. Monday and May 14, the Friday of graduation weekend. Tuesday evenings in O'Laughlin auditori­
Godspell is the regular season offering 
um. Check the poser entitled "Our Second this week. But other plays crowd the Scene" for times. 




the observer Monday, April 26, 1976 
Craziness continues to 'muddy' Saturday 
NW. Complete Scientific Programmabilityfrom Hewlett-Packard for $30 less than ever before. 

fcontinued from page 2) 
the amateur hour contest Friday evening. Jones, who played a harmonica, and Yelle, a guitarist, had tied, but instead of a run-off. agreed to play together. 
The final event of the day was Recess 176, a continuation of Recess 101 last year. The affair included jumping rope and other childhood games and an ice cream-eating contest. 
Swmy Saturday 
"Sunny Saturday" turned out to be "Muddy" Saturday, for many students, with most of the day's events taking place in the mud field across the street from Stepan Center. 
The highlight of the day was the announcement that "Beppo" Guido, a junior from Holy Cross Hall, had been voted "Ugly Man on Campus.'' Guido, who received 49,313 votes, finsihed ahead of ''Ace'' Harris the second place winner with 32,675 votes and J.J. DeCoursey who took third place with 21,064 votes. ­
"We had a big problem with people who wanted to get into the mud pits before it was planned to,'' Pa-ula Griffin, Saturday co-chair­man commented, "and this was the hardest it's ever rained, but there was a big crowd and as long as everybody was having a good time and coming to it, the day was a success," she said. 
The day began early for partici­pants in the decathlon, who compe­ted in ten different events, includ­ing golf, swimming, jogging, ice skating, basketball and other sports starting at 6:30 a.m. Joe O'Neill, a sophomore from Pang­born Hall, won the decathalon, with Scott Jessup, junior, Paul Blum, a graduate student, and John Hedges, senior, finishing behind O'Neill in that order. 
Winners of the chariot race was a team headed by Randy Hadley, a graduate student, with second place taken by a team from Keenan Hall, led by senior Jerry Welch. The Observer team defeated Stu­dent Government in mud soccer, and Karen Zagrocki and Ellen Lawlor, St. Mary's students won the An Tostal scavenger hunt, coming up with items such as ice cubes still frozen, a "Monkee's" single, Senior Class President Au­gie Grace's autograph, and a January Observer. 
The tug-of-war, which took place in another rainstorm, turned into a free-for-all. as the last ourdoor event of the festival. Many of the students who were watching the event joined the teams and ended up being thrown into the pit. 
After the final event, many students participated in a sponta­neous "swimming contest" in St. Joe's Lake. 
An Tostal closed with the annual 
:r: 


LLJ NDGODSPELL
r-­
April 23,24,29,30, May 1 at 8:oo P.M. Stepan Center !Notre Dame)
SMC 
$2.50 General Admission
THEATREj 
$2.00 Students, Faculty & Staff For Reservations Call 284-417 6 
1975-1976 
(Show Nights Call 283-7559)
Our 10th Joint Season 
• 
.. 
an electronic slide rule you can program com­pletely. The reason: It 

solves repetitive problems easily and quickly. Here's how. Switch to PRGM. 
Enter the keystrokes you need to solve your problem once and then flip the PRGM switch to RUN. That's it. The only thing you have to do for each iteration from then on is enter your variables and press the R/S (Run/ Stop) key. It's that simple. 
The result: Repetitive problems are no longer a repetitive problem. 
But that's only part of the HP-25 story. Here's more. You can add to, check or edit your programs at will. You can also write one­second interruptions into your program in case you want to note intermediate answers. 
And because the keycodes of all prefixed functions are merged, the 49-step program memory can actually store up to 147 key­strokes. (How's that for a memory capacity!) What's more, you can store numbers in eight data registers and perform 7 2preprogrammed functions and operations (logs, trig, mean deviations, rectangular-polar conversions, summations-you name it). Not to mention RPN logic; fixed decimal, scientific and engineering notation; and much, much more. 
In fact, if you wanted to know all the HP-25 can do for you it would take a book. But don't worry, we've already written one­125 pages-worth -just chock full of applica­tions programs and problem solutions. Such as Algebra and Number Theory, Numerical Methods, Statistics-even Games. In detail. 
The HP·25: Just $165!< 
And don't forget the best news. The price. The HP-25 was an exceptional value at $195. Right now it's an out-and-out bargain at $165:~ 
The HP-25. There's never been a calcu­lator with this kind of capability at this kind of a low price before, with HP's name on it. And you know what that means. Design, performance and a back up support system you just can't get anywhere else. 
The HP-25 is almost certainly available at your college bookstore. If not, call 800·538·7922. (In Calif. 800·662-9862) toll-free to find out the name of your nearest 
dealer. ­
HEWLETTiiiPACKARD 
Dept. 658F, 19310 Pruneridge Avenue, Cuperrino, CA 95014. Sales and service from 17Z offices in 65 countries. *Suggested retail price, excludmg applicable state and local taxes-Continental U.S.,Alaska & Hawaii. 6t6/15 
Irish Wake armory party Saturday night. Over 900 students attended the party which "went very well, according to Quakenbush. "Eden Rock," a group from Chicago, provided music for the dancing. 
Throughout the weekend, An Tostal assassins were at work throwing pies in the faces of unsuspecting victims. According to assistant assassin Jo Ann Stu­ber, upwards of sixty pies were delivered. 
Every year, according to Quak­enbush, the Jim E. Brogan award is given to the hall or organization which contributes most to the success of An Tostal. This year the award went to Brian Dowe and Steve Callahan, who were in charge of physical arrangements for the weekend. 

-
~shde~atBethel ~ in extra inn,!!!Jl!,,.!.:.~.,,,m ITO MY NOTRE DAME FRIENDS! 

by D. H. Reimer 
The Notre Dame baseball team beat intra-city rival Bethel College _0 in extra innings in the first 
game of a double-header Saturday at Jake Kline Field, but lost the chance for a sweep when rain ended the second game with the Irish ahead 2-0 in the 4th inning.Notre Dame scored the only run 
of the contest on a two-out single
by first baseman Mitch Stoltz in the eighth inning which drove in Dave Lazzcri from third base. After a ground out and a strike out to open the eighth inning,
freshman second baseman Lazzeri grounded a single to ccn~r and went to third on another single into left by Tom Walbrun. Stoltz then stepped up and on the first pitch lined his game-winning single to c·enter to give the Irish their tirst victory after a seven game losing 
~trcak. 
The game was marked by strong pit<'hing performances by Notre Dame's Hob Stratta and Bethel's .Joe Leatherman, a right handed 
fre~hman from South Bend. Stratta allowed only three hits in the game 
and struck out three, while Leath­l'rman allowed but five hits until the eighth inning. 
Stratta's tine pitching was back­ed up by the errorless fielding and two double plays by the Irish infield despite poor field conditions. Rick Pullano and second baseman Frank Fiaski turned in double plays in the 
NOTICES
Blue defeats White 21-0 
PLAY BETTER TENNIS! 
(rontimwd !rom page 8) sUrJ.!erv. 'I hL· Irish \\il praL·tice Monday. WcdnL·sdav and Friday before clos­ing out th,: spring can.lpaign Satur­dav. De\ inc is !>till mulling ovn the fW~~ibilitv of anotlwr scrim· mage WL·dncsda~·. But he said. "It'., highlv doubtful." lkvine was happ~· with the play of .Joe HestiL·, the former 411arter­hack now pla~·ing in the defensive haL·kfil'ld. "Without seeing the films, I'd haw to sav Rcstic did a finL' job." Devine ~aid. "He's L'Oilll' olT an injury and this is the first snimmagc he's had at the position." lkavL·ns \\<IS the leading ground gainer\\ ith l.lcarrics for o2 yards. lluntn added 4H yards on ten c·arric•.,. 
Sailors-openings for two exper­'I ill' only two pass interceptions 
ienced crew to help race winning 34
U.S. 31 NILES 
toot sloop on Lake Michigan. Racing at Michigan City most 
canJL' on L'llllSL'l'Utivt• plays. Mon-

Sundays from May 15th to Labor
!.................. 


i SBAIEY'S 
:•: 

•
i
• • 

lot. Call Ann 4-4343.
• 289-5555 

WORLD'S GREATEST PIZZA OPEN n:OO A.M.-7DAYS AWEEK 
BACK AGAIN! SHAKEY'S FAMOUS 
BUNCH-OF-LUNCH 
11 A.M. to 1:~0 P.M. 7 Days a Week 
Pizza . Ch~cken • Spaghetti • Salad 
All You Ages 10 Care to and Under
$'i) 16 Plu> 
Eat! .,& Tc>K 20c per year 
7 FT. CCLOR TV [ 8EER ON SUNDAYS 
SHAKEY'S FAMOUS 
SUPER SUPPER 
5 to 7:30 Mon. • Tues. • Wed. Pizza · thi::kcn • Spaghetti • Salad AIIYou $216 Agn 10
Care to Plus and Under Eat! lox 20c per year 
323 E. IRELAND RD. 291-7500_ 2l13 EDISON RD•. 

po~cntial Bet~el r~llies, as ~tratta ~ retired the s1de m order m the ~ 
Oil 
third, six_th and eighth inning. ~ Bethel fatted to advance a runner ~ past second base in the game. Oil 1 th d N D ~ 
sco~ed; :~~~~ t.;ea~r~t i~~i~g ~~= ~ 
three htts and p1cked up another m ~ the third before two downpours ~ ended the game in the fourth Oil 
inning. ~ 
Stoltz commented on hist hit ~ 
which gave the Irish their eighth ~ 
victory of the year. "Tom (Waf-~ 
;IIIIIburn) was running on the pitch and ~ 
I just went with the pitch," said ;11111 Stoltz. "It's nice to win like this in ~~ 
the bottom of the eighth." -.,
•

Stoltz also said that the Irish io'ii_.Oiittiro.itiiPoiititl.._riittir.-"""'-r_...,.,.....,......,....,.,.......,_..._,...._..._,....,_...,.,....._..._,....,_..._,.....,.._,.....,..
baseball team is not as bad as thdr record indicates. "We have been losing because of errors,'' he said. He noted that many of the players this year arc young and he pointed to the teams .294 team batting 

average as a sign that the team is better than their record shows. Errors, have certainly plagued the Irish who have committed 68 of them through the first 27 games 
.,.
of the season, but Coach Tom Kelly hope the team's nearly error-free performance Saturday will carry over to future games. "We made good plays today," he said, "and I 
hope it will carry over into other games. Our players have hung in there." 
The doubleheader against the Michigan State Spartans scheduled for Sunday was cancelled due to bad weather. 
Vote For 
''LITTLE JOEJ J 
ZAPPIA 
DEMOCRAT FOR 3rd DISTRICT COMMISSIONER 
O M 4 C f Y \J' f
n OY OS OUr V 0 e 
for "LITTLE JOE" 
Oil 
~ 
~ 
;, 
011 
f ~ ~

';!'.~ ~ ~ 
~ 
• ~ 
~ 
. Oil 
~~ ~ . :.til

! ~ ~ 
•"' • ;IIIII 
1 ~~ 
Day. Call 234 1056 M F 9 4. 
Typinq wanted pick up & delivery Call 683 7759. 
Typing 35 cents a page. Call Dan, 272 5549 
Linda's Letlers. 
Dissertations, specialists, typing at 
sludenl rates 289 5193. 
STEREO COMPONENTS 
20-40 PERCENT Discount. All quality name brands. RMS Audio 321 S. Main 288-1681 M F 12 :00 6 :00 
Accurate, fast typing. Hours 8A.M. lo 8P.M. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. 
• 
i• RUGBY SHIRTS · IDENTYICAL SHIRTS AS CHEERLEADERS FOR $13.00 IDEAL FOR GIFTS. ALSO, FOOTBALL T-SHIRTS fN NAVY OR YELLOW FOR $3.50. CALL DAVID BOSSY 277-0948. 
Will do typing. Experienced. Term papers, etc. Call 233-8512. WANTED On(' soul strutting partner for Becky. 
Need ride to Ph illy or NJ area, May 10 or later. Call Cathy 4-5349. 
Wanted: one small refrigerator 
Call 4-4104. 
Babysitter wanted tor summer to care tor 3 boys age 7 to 9. Good pay and close to N.D. Hours 7am-4pm, M-F If interested, call Kevin at 8593. 
LOST & FOUND 
Found: Pair of Glasses by the lake. Scott on stem. Call 1715. 
Lost: Gold watch between Grotto and Grace Hall or student parking 

sMc Professor desires 1 or 2 bedroom home or apartment to

Classlrtl•ed AdS 
Lost: light brown wallet. between pay cafeteria and 2nd floor Library sometime last week. If found please return, I need I. D.s, license, etc. Call 234-0267, Bob. 
Lost: Ladies silver watch in vicinity of Nickies. Great sentimental value Please call 5741 or 5368. 
FOR SALE 
Smith Corona Electric Typewriter. Automatic return, excellent cond­ition, ·1•-• yrs. old, 5 yr. guarantee. Call 284-4744. 
Selling 6 rolls of good Tri-X film for $4. Call John 1145. 
Dark blue military style flight jacket. Men's large size 42 $15. Call John 1145. 
Brown & Gold Shag Perfectly Cut for Regina Single. Also good for any other small room. Call 4 4226. 
For Sale :two matching bedspreads­blue, green, yellow and white striped muslin. Machine washable. Excellent condition. Call Mo or Jean 4 5486. 
Pirahna for Sale. Call 8645. 
Fiat 128 4-door '73, as new. Fernando after 6 P.M. 277 0188. 
1973 Fiat 128 SL 29,000 miles. $1,300 call 277-2420 after 7:OOpm. 
For Sale: Dual 1229Q changer $180. Call Len 289-8990. Less than 1 yr. old -excellent condition. 
Need a Refrigerator for next year? Still have plenty left tor a super price!! Call Biv 6891. 
Must sell stereo one month old. Pioneer SX-950, PL-112 D, OM EGA 4 way speakers, Call 1623. 
FOR RENT 
House tor summer rental. 
Excellent Condition. Call 1292 . 
4 Bedroom Suburban h :.~se 3miles from N.D. Completely furnished available tor one year beginning June 1st 1976. Rent $350. Call 283-7215 or 

!!!.:_~~Je~e.!:'_i~~-----­
For Summer Rental. Super 4 bedroom fully furnished house near Jeff-Eddy. Washer, dryer, all utilit­ies. $175. 234-1972. 
Milliken Rentals 282-2089 or 233-5833 House and apartments available tor June or September. 
House tor 3 people. $150 plus utilities. 914 Notre Dame Ave. 234-5646. 
2·7 Bedroom Houses tor 3 month summer rentals. All furnished. Call 288-6259 after 6 p.m. 
3 Bedroom House Available May 20; Fireplace, garage, basement. Rent is neg. otiable. Call 237-4023 or 277-3461. 1142 Portage rent. Please call 284-4095 8-5 
House for Summer, rated superior Furnished, W & D Very cheap. Call 1760. 
Summer sublet. 1 Bedroom unfurnished apt. Rent negotiable. 288-9646. 
3 BEDROOM FURNISHED APARTMENT, ONE-fHALF OF A DUPLEX, DEPOSIT, LEASE, FOR FALL TERM. Call 255-3205. 
6 bedroom. and 3 bedroom turn ished houses. Contact Mr. Gatto, 234-6688. 
Close to Notre Dame. House, tully furnished. Reasonable. Call alter 4 p.m. Phone 232-7180. 
Homes completely furnished, ranging from 2 to 7 bedrooms. Call Mrs. Humbarger, 234-9364 
PERSONALS 
Marlene, Thanks for watching in the rain! 
Todd R. 
"If the Senior Class Officers can find a date so can you. Come to the Senior Class Formal, Monday, May 10." 
Secret Worshipper: Thanks for the flowers: Glad to know Pack opened your eyes-better late than never. But don't dawdle as you did w 1:al.s. Bobo: Gather ye rosebuds while ye may, Old time is still a flying; And this same flower that smiles today Tomorrow will be dying. That age is best which is the first When youth & blood are warmer But being spent the worse and worst Times succeed the former Then be not coy, but use your time$ And while you may, come meet me; For having lost but once your prime, You may never greet me. 
Angolan warmonger 
Yo, WARMONGER: Next time write a book! 
Susan Foley wearsboxer Shorts 
That's the last time I fix the AP machine for you! 
LEMANS HALL: Vote JAWORSKI and LIBERT Pres. and V.P. on April 28th. 
Class of 1977: Vote Korhumet. Storino, Hyde, 1-iellinghausen!! Vote Wednesday! 
G.L. B.: 
Thanks for making it my best year dt N.D.! Try for another? 
T.J. T. 
Need a place to stay in Chicago this June, July and August. Any info will help. Call Gregg at 1615. 
Rackets restrung to desired ten­
sions; with nylon $7, gut $13.
tan.1 threw the ball into the hands 
Picked up and delivered. Call B.J. 289-8948. 
of .John Dubenetzky while playing fo1 the Blue~-Forvstck returned tilL· fa\<\1', as Honnie. Cullins picked 
N.Y. MET Club Baggage Truck to 
'Long Island Loading May 8, 9, 10. Send $5.00 deposit to Doug 
the ball pff 011 the 20 and returned 
it 2J y•• rds to the 43. 
Schumacher, 1315 Elwood Ave.,
Forni<'r Irish assistant coach 
So. Bend 46628. For info Call 
"Doc" l'nch was in attcndencc. 
288 0498. 
llrid1 i~ nuw an assistant with the 
YEAR END SALE AT Fl.ANNER
Lknvn Hroncos. 
RECORDS! PURCHASE ANY
Saturdav's Blue-Gold contest 
ORDER ALBUM FOR OUR 
will begi;1 at 2:00 p.m. All EVERYDAY LOW PRICE OF $4.55 AND YOU CAN BUY ANY STOCK ALBUM FOR ONLY $4.05 OR BUY
pnlL'L'ecb go to scholar~hip fund set 
up h~· the Notre Dame Club of St. 
ANY STOCK ALBUM FOR ONLY 
Joseph's Valley. 
$q,JO. WE HAVE THE NEW AMERICA, SEALS AND CROFTS PAUL McCARTNEY, LED ZEPPELIN AND PETER
NOW OPEN 
FRAMPTON. 
KELLEY'S 
AND MORE!' IN STOCK!! COME TO 807 FLANNER OR CALL 1488.
SPORTLAND 


the observer Monday, April 26, 1976 
Batton, TILCS leave AWT at altar 
by Rich Odioso As the rain fell harder on the Bookstore finals Friday, Dave Bat­ton's shooting percentage rose like an avenging tide, sweeping TILCS to a 22-20 victory over Average White Team. TILCS thus requited a quarter final defeat a year ago and left AWT a soggy bridesmaid for the second consecutive year. "If anything I guess the rain made me shoot better.'' said Batton. "I think it mainly affected the people who tried to drive and dribble." One dribble and drive that didn't seem affected was a shifting lay-up bv TILCS' Tom Kirbv late in the g;1me. The picture-perfect drive ~1round Kevin Dohe1 ty tied the e·,mtest at 19-19 after TILCS had trailed by two and three throughout· most of the second half. Batton then defeated the A' IT defense, the swirling wind, am the pelting rain for a pair of oub1de shots to more than offset a Doherty mortar shot that. as usual, disappeared  The first half, played in a moderate drizzle, was close and hard fought as AWT moved to an 11-10 lead. Average White opened up a second half lead as large as 17-14. Then Batton hit a pair of free throws and started his outside barrage. "It certainly was a thrill to win the tourney," said Dave, a unani­mous choice as MVP. "It's the type of tourney you really get excited about. After it was over we just hugged each other even though it was raining and we were all wet. We really wanted it." Batton's shooting was off in the first half and midway through it he turned his ankle. It was here that the yeoman work of Dubenetzky on the boards kept AWT from assum­ing command. "The ankle really hurt at first but as the game got near the end and the adrenalin started flowing I just put it out of my mind," said Batton. Posedion Adventure claimed the consolation game from the Nut­meggers 21-16.  Dave Kelly scoreless...John Dube­netzky of TILCS also deserves special mention for his consistently fine play... Batton delighted the crowd when he held up his finger at the free throw line to measure the wind and the rain late in the final ...The dunking contest was a victim of the elements. Bill Laim­beer was awarded the Dr. J trophy based on his jamming during the tourney...Dubenetzky is the fifth player to play on two title teams. His teammates on 31 Club last year are the other four-Tom Clements, Mike Bonifer, Steve Sylvester and Norb Schickel...This year's was the first final to go into overtime... Bat­ton is the first varsity player since John Shumate in the tourney's first year to win the MVP Award...tour­ney director Tim Bourret and his staff deserve one final mention for their conscientious work through­out the tourney that made this year's Bookstore the biggest and best yet...Rick's Picks were 20 of 23 on the tournament but gagged on the final and consolation...Jeff  ,.........................................................................,1 Bookscores ~ !TILCS FG-FGA FT-FTA REBS PTS I ~ ~ Kelly 0-J 0-0 3 0 DubenctLky 4-10 1-1 13 s Batton 9-24 2-J 13 II Sahm 4-13 0-1 4 4 Kirby 2-8 0-1 2 19-58 3-h 35 22 AWT FG-FGA FT-FTA REBS PTS Paterno 4-1:' 0-1 4 Horton 3-S 0-0 6 J l'nhlen 5-9 0-0 8 5 Doherty 7-14 0-0 3 7 Sullivan 1-9 0-0 2 6  
into the low-hanging clouds before plunging safely through the rim. Down 21-20, AWT's attempt to tie the score was foiled by a rain-induced turnover. Batton's bid to win with a third straight jumper was off the mark but John Dube­netzky grabbed the rebound and powered home the winning basket.  BOOKSTORE BANTER -The AWT Sports Information Office set a Bookstore first with its distribu­tion of a "Kurt Horton for Mr. Bookstore" flyer. Horton was pos­sible the steadiest performer in the entire tournament, shooting over SO percent. In the finals he held  "Floyd" Pink of Nutmeggers set a record that will never be broken when he attempted no shots in either the semi-final or consolation game. BOOKSTORE AWARDS MVP -Dave Batton Mr. Bookstore -Mike Meyer.  ~ ~ ~  20-52 0-1 Halftime: AWT Il-l0 Turnovers: TILCS 14. AWT 9 Team Fouls: TJLCS 10, AWT 15 Technical Foul: Paterno  ·  27  20  ~ ~ ~  
Nutmcggers Golden Hatchet  -Greg  Marx,  ~  Assists:  TJLCS 10 (Sahm, Kirby 3), AWT 7 (Horton, Doherty 3)  ~  

......................................................................
Marxists Hoosier Award for Exotic Shot John Dubenetzkv. TJLCS Dana Snopf. Marxists Selection -Jim Fritsch, Poseidon Rusty Lisch. Act 5 Billy Sahm. TILCS Adventure Luther Bradley, SWAT Paul Martin, Goat RopersBest Team Name -Adolph Eich­Joe Montana. Firin' Myron second teamman and the Gas House Gang Pat Pohlen. AWTHonorable Mention -I Felta Thi, Mark Meyer, NutmeggersScott May and the Others Will, All-Bookstore Jim Fritsch, Poseidon AdventureThe, Reggie Jackson and the Kiss first team (asterisk indicates unani­'John Powell. Boogie Fever
My~s O's. 

mous selection) Monk Molloy. Riders of the Apoc­All-Devine 
alypse Mike Meyer, Nutmeggers * Mike Howard, NutmeggersKevin Doherty. AWT Kurt Horton, AWT * 
Jim Budde, Boogie Fever 

Blue gridders down Whites 
''I'd have to say. Rick had the next pia\. Hunter bulled into the by Ernie Torriero 
best day running ihe option since end zom· from eleven yard~ away I've been !Jere... Devine agreed. for a 1-l-0 Blue advantage. For many, the virtues of spring "We sat him out for almost two ··Ranch b starting to come practice arc lost in the seemingly 
periods and it's hard to maintain a ·!round.·· Lkvine explained. "He endless hours of toil geared toward 
il'vcl of con-,i.,tenc~· that way." 111ade !>ome kcv hits and he seems participation in the annual Spring 
Joe Montana opened at quarter­to be coming hack to form."
TILCS overcame an April monsoon and 
Game. But just to make sure his 
back for the Whites. He was later Slager came back to engineer a Basketball championship. (Photo by Tony Chifari) boys did not lose sight of reality. replaced by Gary Forystek. Before tina! scoring drive late in the fourth sophomore coach Dan Devine add­
Billy Paterno's AWT to capture the 5th Annual Bookstore 
the end of the day, both would don period. He hit on passes of 15 and ed some new wrinkl~~L for Satur­
Blue jer~eys and Russ Lisch would 22 yards to MacAfee and another to
1976-77 basketball tickets 
day's scrimmage. 

direct the Whites. Steve Schmitz for 17 yards. He "We ran Pittsb 1rgh' s offense 
For their efforts the Whites could later spotted MacAfee again on a today," Devine announced after 
muster an anemic total of 31 total crossover pattern for an 11 yard
go on sale this Tuesday 
the highly-favored Blue team yard~. six of which came on a scoring play. ·.e·~''' '-' 11: not go un reserve until downed the Whites, 21-0. "We Forystek to Kevin Hart pass. the IRISH ITEMS: Hunter wasSt11dcnts wishing to purchase liH· Ltll. wanted our defense to take a look at only White completion of the day. forced to leave the contest afterseason tickets for the 1976-77 Notre :\11 ,•;;cc,·ni' will be required to it. The offense did a real good job Fullback Frank Bonder paced the being poked in his right eye in the
Dame ba~ketball season can do so Ida,,· a '>10 ckpo~it at the time of of execution. The only thing Whites in rushing with six carries third period. His eye was swollen
beginning Tuesday April 27, ac­
:•clr,·ila-.,·. IIJc balance will he missing was Tony Dorsett." 

cording to Ticket Manager Mike 
e·,l)I,·<"LLd .:Jthc fall when the tickets The first time the Blue squad 
Midway through the second for Saturday's Blue-Gold game.
H"'il·k. 

:Le' ,li..,lrihukd. touched the ball, the reincarnated period, Forystek was rolling to his Safety John Soutncr suffered aI'· ._ , . .., for 'ocason tickets will be 'i1ucknh h;1ve the option of not Pitt Panthers looked like the real left, when he lost the ball and knee· injury and he may require~ •' 1 •r lower arena seats and $24 
btl\ in.'-! tiL·kct>. this spring and thing. Field general Rick Slager safety Randy Harrison came up
!"1 .,,._.,, her ...cats. This constitutes with it for the Blues. On the very
ll.;illll.l! !o hu~ tickets in the fall at marched the Blues 70 yards in 12 (continued on page 7);, i , increasL in total amount tlk' ~<lllle· price. However, there is plays. consuming all but 4:54 of the
1·,., );.,, \'l'ar.l>tJt thisisduetoan 
11<' .c•tl<ti<Jnt<·L' that the supply of ten minute period. AI Hunter
'''·. heel. numl'•·r nf home games l<•'.ll't <Jre·na seah will still be cappedoff the drive by jitter-bugg­I· ·•·tile· upcnminc.: ..,cason. The pr1cc 
a• ,JiLl hie' 11 hen students return. ing in for the score from the nine. 
p<·r game rcm.1ins $2 for lower ll,l'n· i.., illl' possibility that all Thuugh the running of Huntera1c:lla scats and $1.50 for bleacher lt'lle'l' ar,na seats will be sold and fullback Jerome Heavens do­scat>. as it ''a~ last season. This dnill,'-! the \lll'ing. and only bleach­minated the drive, it was the play
compares to a public reserved seat e·r w;ll.., 11ill remain in the fall. of Slager which sustained the
prin of $-I and $3. 

T1!,,..,,. '' i'>hing to sit together offensive momentum. The 5-11,Till' season ticket will be good for nH,,t cithL·r place their deposits at 11:18 pound Columbus, Ohio nativeI h home game!>. including the 
the· '><1111e' tinll' this 'Pring or buy hit on his first two pass attempts.
annual battle with UCLA and 
tilL ir 1ivkc1' cunsccutivel~· during He found tight end Ken MacAfee 
games 11 1th South Carolina and the thL tall. The Ticket Orticc will over the middle for 12 yards. TwoHill Cart\\ right-led San Francisco ac,···pt onh one ID and one plays later, split receiver ChrisDons. ll1is compares to 14 home pa1 mutt hlltt each individual. Haines was the recepient of a 3 games last .vear. The Irish will play 
rY1arriL'l 1 ~tuclcnts desirous of yard Slager toss. 

one game .<t home that will not be pure·ha,ing adjacent tickets for For the day, Slager was to hit onincluded in the season pass. 
their spouses mu~t V\aive class seven of 12 pass attempts for 104 
StudL·nt'> wi'ihing to reserve a prinrit\ and wail until the fall yards . On the ground, Slager lo11 ,r arena ticket for the upcoming wmcsll'r. at a tillll' and place to be netted 24 yards on six carries "''"'"It e·an do !>Oat the Ticket Sales ann.,un,·,·d. 'liekets for married including a nifty 13 yard keeper \\'ind''" Dll the second floor of the '>ttHknh will be $24 plus $28 for the early in the game. ·\l'<.' IlL'.'' 1\l'ck: present juniors on '>]1llil'>e·-, ticket. ''Yes. I felt good,'' Slager admit­iue·'>d<ll April r from 9 a.m. to 5 St. Mary·, students will also ted. ·'I like the offense we were p.nt : pre-.cn! sophomores 011 Wed­haH' an opportunity to buy season running. It gives me more time at nc·'>dal !rom Y a.m. to noon; tickeh in the fall. The price will be the line of scrimmage because the graduate and law students on the same as for Notre Dame defensive linemen have to be 


Wcdnesdav from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.; students. $24. However, only conscious of my running backs. I 
AI Hunter scored 2 touchdowns in Saturday's scrimmage as the
and present fre5hmell on Thursday bleacher seats will be available for like having the option of either 
Blue team defeated the White team 21-0. (Photo by Tony
trom 9 a.m. to noon. Bleacher sale. running or pitching it back." 
Chifari) 




