
Mondale to address campus on Friday 
"America's tour. The Mondale party and its 
Values and America's Future" will traveling press contingent will stay be the subject of what is described overnight at the Albert Pick Motor as a major address by Sen. Walter Inn in downtown South Bend. 
F. Mondale, Democratic vice pres­Friday morning at 8 a.m. Mond­idential nominee, Friday, Sept. 10 ale will greet guests and speakat Notre Dame. 
briefly at a Third District Democra-
While open to the public, Mondale's 10 a.m. speech in tic-Committee fund-raising breakf­Stephan Center is expected to be ast in the Monogram Room of delivered to an audience composed Notre Dame's Athletic and Convo­mainly of students and faculty of cation Center. the University. The Minnesota 
University president, Rev. Theo­senator is the first major party 
dore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., will presidential or vice presidential 
introduce Sen. Mondale at the 
candidate to accept Notre Dame's 

Stepan Center address. Followingtraditional 1uadrennial invitation to his talk, the. Democratic vice-presi­speaK on campus during,he national dential nominee will meet bneuyelection campaign. with student volunteers who helped Mondale will arrive without air­with arrangements for his visit in port ceremonies Thursday afterno­the study lounge of nearby Grace 
on and proceed with Third District Hall. He is scheduled to leave Congressman John Brademas to campus for Michiana Regional South Bend's Bendix plant for a Airport at 11:30 a.m. Approximately 1,500 Notre Dame students partic­last night. SMC Security reported little property 
ipated in the traditional pre-home-game panty damage as a result of the raid. 


SMC student government reviews parietal policy 
by Barb Langhenry Smits stated, "This is not an and effort to conform to any universities Mary Browne or college's parietal policy, in Staff reporters particular N.D.'s, but is a positive and constructive attempt to make St. Mary's a better college with a 
The parietal system at St. Mary's student body who can grow in will be discussed at 8 p.m. this maturity both academically and Sunday in the SMC Clubhouse. The socially. We feel the present par­purpose of this meeting is to give ietal system hinders academic and Student Government an opportu­social growth." nity to understand student opinion Dr. Kathleen Rice Dean of SMC in this regard. student affairs stated, "I have 

A poll was taken during the formulated no opinion because I 1975-76 school year with a large have not heard enough from stu­number of students stating that dents about what they want relative For fres1~menthey were dissatisfied with the to parietals and why they want" it. present policy. Student Govern­Furthermore I don't know about ment is presently researching the the history of the parietal issue at issue. SMC and how the entire SMC 
Housing problems eased
A committee, consisting of Diane community feels about it.'' Rice Smits, Cathy Harahan, Peggy Rod­also views the Sunday night meet­
byJoeGm been taken, stating that the first

gers and Sherry Antonini, stated ing as informative. Father Robert Huneke, rector at 
Staff Reporter priority was to "free the two

that its function is not to institute a Rice will be at the meeting Grace, commented that the situa­change in parietals if it is not Sunday night to act as a resource lounges at Holy Cross, and that's tion at Grace is "fine, but it's
The freshman housing proble~

desired by the student body. The. person and not as a representative been done.'' "Secondly," she said becoming a bit of a strain. Most 
at St. Mary's is "under control,"

committee has presently been of the administration. Several other ''the students housed in the emer­of the freshmen," he said "would
according to St. Mary's Dean of

working on formulating student members of the administration gency rooms, that are uncomfort­like to settle down somewhere
Students Kathleen Rice.

opinion. have also been invited. able, like classrooms and study permanently for the year."
"We've now taken care of many 
areas, are being taken care of, and Fr. Richard Conyers, rector at
of the undesir able sides of the 
that's being done now. Fin­Keenan, said the cooperation be­
problem, such as people in class­
ally," said Rice, "those students tween all involved has been "extra­
rooms and lounges," she said, 
housed in some of the nicer rooms, ordinary. The upperclassmen
"and the rest of the freshmen are 
such as lounges, will be moved." 
that are rooming with freshmen arepretty content.'' 
Of the 73 originally placed in being very solicitous," he said. 
Meanwhile, the situation at 
emergency ·housing, 30 of them ''Although the situation itself is not 
Notre Dame has been cut in half, 
were "in really bad situations" ideal (a freshman rooming with an
according to Housing Director Fr. 
said Rice, "and twenty of these upperclassman), as an alternative,

.John Mulcahy. "We're making 
have been moved into dormi­it's working really well," he added. 
good progress and should be 
tories.'' When asked how soon the Rectors -at McCandless and
through in a few weeks," he said. 
others would be moved, Rice Regina were unavailable for com­replied. "I can't tell you that just
The housing problem at Notre ment. Holy Cross Rector Kathy
yet because the information will
Dame though, is markedly differ­Mathews said she "has no com­
be unavailable until I Friday, when
ent from that of St. Mary's. At ment for the Observer." 
the computer results will be in. 
Notre Dame, the freshmen have 
Rice commented on the morale at 
rooms, but with RA's as room­At Notre Dame, of the 56 St. Mary's, saying that "Some mates. At St. Mary's, the problem originally rooming with 35
RA's, have worried about student morale, is more extensive; the freshmen have been placed in other room. but I haven't heard anything about 
have no actual rooms and are living 
The remaining 21 are occupying it. The cooperation of the staff, the in study lounges and classrooms. alumni, Grace, Stanford, and Flan­fresnman and the RA's over here Rice outlined the steps that have ner. 
has been excellent.'' 

'Tin Men' sick cancel ACC concert 
by Joe LaCosta ticket office starting next Monday.
Staff Reporter The ticket office is located at gateThe scheduled appearance of the 10 and will be open from 9 a.m. to 5 rock group America on Saturday, p.m. Monday through Friday. 

Sept. 18 has been cancelled. 
The refund will be a large scaleAccording to the group's manager operation since nearly 7500 ticketsthe reason for canceling was illnes­and 45,000 dollars will have to be s. Dan Peek developed bronchitis exchanged.

and the rst of the group had started America will probably schedule ato catch it. In addition the stage spring tour to make up for the crew had begun to develop colds. 
concerts stops missed. The concert America consisting of Dan Commission for the Student Union, Peek, Dewey .B""unnell and Gerry headed by Ken Ricci and JimBeckley, had to cancel the second Speier has said that they will try toleg of its fall concert tour. This tour schedule America the·n. 

included sold out performances Speier stated that the grouphere at Notre Dame, Chicago regrets having to cancel and Amer·Kansas City, and at the Mississippi lea's manager labeled Notre Dameriver festival. 
as a good place to play. TheJohn Sebastian and SUver, the concert Commissioners also stated groups touring with America, will that the concert could have been analso not appear here or at any of the "obvious success."

other scheduled stops previously There are three other dates openmentioned. 
for concerts this fall but negotiatio­Refunds for anyone who bought ns are still under way for all threetickets will be available at the ACC dates at the present time. 


ND community sails & suns at St. joe's. [photo by Paul Clevenger] 


Ir
. 
Thursday, Sept. 9, 1976
2 
the observer

! 

,..-...-Qn Campus Today­
9 a.m.-meeting, meeting, alumni board of directors 5 p.m.-meeting, room 220, cce. 
5:30 p.m. -meeting, college of engineering advisory council, cce. 
7:30 p.m.• discussion, by al sondej, a 1976 notre dame graduate and member of the world hunger coalition, on the overseas development council where he­worked this summer and the campus-a-day progrm for this fall, library lounge. 


Roemer OK's annual Dillon Run 
by Bob VareUonl dorms through-windows. He ·added said she does not know what to Staff Re(lorter expect. She fears to open the doors
the run would not be 'considered 
tcr the Dillon freshmen "mayStudents planning to be a part o( trespassing if _students stayedjout 
ed.'~ourage unnecessary vandal­

tonight's "Dillon Run" should of dorms where th~y were :';fmt isi:lt."
anticipate no problems from the wanted and ifthey traveled togeth­University, if they are careful, er in smaller numbers. 
Sr. Jean Lenz of Farley hall saidaccording to James Roeil\er, Notre "Of course there is no objection the first time it happened while sheDame dean of students. • to a Notre Dame student entering was rectress she tried to lock theRoemer said the Dillon Run was any dorm he wishes, but if 30 of 40 doors.

basically "not related" to the 
people at a time genuinely cause a

trespassing violations that concer­disruption, there is something wr­"I'll never forget it." she said,ned him during the panty raids. 
ong,'' he noted. "I didn't know what was happeni­However, he also warned descipli­ng. But we've never had anynary action would be taken in cases A few rectresses may feel less damage or any trouble from the

optimi~ic. This will the first run

of injury, damage or complaint. 
Dillon people. They usually run
for four of the six on campus. Sr.The Dillon Run traditionally tak­
right in and right out.'' 

es place before the start of the Kathleen Madden of Lyons Hall
Tickets available now 

hall's unofficial, courtyard pep rally. Dillon freshmen run through ••••••••••••4SAVE••••••••
the halls in each dorm, knocking on • .,-· .,... . · •

for NO-Navy weekend 
doors, trying to get people to. . ...... '\:.c.~ WITH COUPON by Marti Hogan Ballroom later that night from 11 attend the pep rally. ln the past, 3 GAMES • St. Mary's Editor p.m. to midnight. "It'll be like a 
~~~~~~­
. 

big cocktail party," Coyne stated. about the activity, and Dillon hall. FOR PRICEOFONE-EXPl0-3-76 • The Notre Dame-Navy football The cost is $2.50 and tickets will be president Tom O'Neill said he 
game will highlight "one helluva . sold at the door. expects no problems this year. 8 306 W McKinley, Mishawaka 259~4171 • weekend," according to Cathy Following the game, Saturday Roemer said trespassing violati-• . 2 blocks E. of T & C Shopping Cnt. • 
Coyne, president of the SMC-ND night will feature a pool party at the ons during panty raids related to • • Cleveland Club. The Cleveland Sheraton. There will be music and matters where, for example, stud-MAKE NEW FRIENDS PLAYING PUTT-PUTT Club and Notre Dame Student beer. "The $7 room fee will cover ents would break their way into,•••••••••••••••••••••••• 
Union are co-sponsoring a trip to admittance to this party," Coyne 
this game. said, "but it will cost $1 for 
Tickets will be on sale at the others." Cleveland Club table during Activ­Students taking the buses will ities Night at Notre Dame and in leave for south Bend at 1 p.m. on the Student Union ticket office Sunday, Oct. 31. "We'll have beer Tuesdays and Thursdays between and pretzels on the bus to and from 


2915 Mishawaka Ave. 

"A $5 deposit is mandatory for a Once the club has sold all the ticket order," Coyne said, adding tickets, "we'll hold a huge meeting that this deposit is non-refundable. before leaving for everyone who is vn,;;-1§·~···~ "You can reserve a room, ticket, going to get organized," Coyne 11 a.m. and 4p.m. until Sept. 17. Cleveland," Coyne said. 
: difference!!! ~ 

transportation and a rally ticket stated. The Club also hopes to have when you pay your deposit," she a rally at Notre Dame Thursday 
.• ~,.lifE /fiOit • 

said. Students may also make their night before leaving. • • 
•

final payments during this time. Students don't have to be mem-. • MCAT ofo..,tlperltnct 1~'"" •.• Rooms will be available at the bers of the Club to buy tickets. "A : DAT ,...'':"" : Sheraton Hotel in Cleveland for $7 mailing list went out this summer 
: LSAT :
5NIIclane,..._· 

per person per room. "There will to notify all members," she said. be four people to a room, and you ''The tickets left are open to the : G R E Yo\u,.~nou' hoMe : 
•tully "'a''"'t'

may room with friends," Coyne student body." These tickets are • GMAT explained. "If you come alone, you in a student section on the 30-35 : QCAT 
Courm that lrt : will be arbitrarily assigned to a yard line. : CpA T con•t:"' updlttd : room." This $7 fee also includes Anyone with questions about the Iapt,,;,,,..., lor
transportation to and from the trip may contact Coyne at 4359 or : VAT : 
rtWtiW\ ol CIUl e

game which is at 2 p.m. Dave Beno at 3805. : SAT 
·Ienon• and lor u\f • 
1

The buses are tentatively sched­• flEX of lupplt,.tntar, e 
"''trroah •

uled to depart Friday, Oct. 30, at 1 
p.m. and should arrive in Cleve­Griffin to hold •: ECFMG • :
Ma~t up\ tor e· 

land around 5 p.m. A "party in the • "''"'d ltnon• • Park" is scheduled to follow at 6 Grotto Mass 
: NAT'L MED BDS :

p.m. "Kids from Cleveland will know where 'the Park' is" Coyne Father Robert Griffin will be 


! ~!' ~'L.D~~T.B~S.:

explained. celebrating a Mass at the Grotto 
e ~ott t.!auet start 8 Wf!ek\ •The Cleveland Alumni Associa­after Saturday's Pitt game at 6:15 • poor to E~tam • 
Sprong & Fall compact\

tion and the Cleveland Club are p.m.yriffin stated that the Mass : : 
• SorT'Ie courHI offered on e ·

sponsoring a rally at the Sheraton was for ''the convenience of the 
• Ma1or C1mpu"'s e

people who want to go to mass · 
before they hit the road." : Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Center :· This mass is in addition to the
Cheering section 
Mass that he usually celebrates in Sacred Heart at 5:15. There will be : Bloomington, Indiana 47-401 :

starts Saturday 
a group from the glee club singing 
: • CHICAGO CE~TER •• :· 
A football cheering section has at the Grotto mass. 

been formed in section 32 and 33 of the Notre Dame Stadium in "an attempt to boost school spirit" stated Bob Lombardo, one of its coordinators. The section will have cards and will also work in conjunc­tion with the cheerleaders in ex­pressing school spirit. 
The card section of the cheering section, those in section 33, rows 25 through SO, are asked to be in the stadium by 2:30p.m. on Saturday. Other members of the section should be at Stepan Center at 6:30 
p.m. on Friday or follow the band into Stepan Center. 

Night Editor-Marti 'Peaches' Hogan Ass't Night Editor -Giacomo 'Rimandami in ltalia' D' Au­rora Layout -Drew Bauer Copy Editor -Barb 'Miss Apple Pie' Langhenry Day Editor -Mary Mungovan Editorials -Pat Hanifin, John Murphy Features -Chris Smith Sports -Paul Stevenson Typists -Gwen Coleman, Susan Shellenburger, Kathy Egbart, Nancy Cueroni Night Controller -A Very Tired Morey Blinder Ad Layout-Tom Walrath 

.1:Cutline Specialist -Tom 'TheJ ;\..;Wiz' O'Neil _ 
zaz. 

·\ 
: ((812)339-1127 :, 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday <11d weekly during the surrmer session, except during the 

Tile Fireworks .Festivall 
exams <11d vacation periods. The Observer is publ is/led by the students 

3 days of muall:, food, refreshments and fireworks Of the Univ. Of Notre Dame <11d St. 
i=~-tt!:!!TtONAl CfN! i 
\ 
• fiSf "'fll'.t.IIIIA1t()H ' Frldey September 10-rock and roll featuring 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be 

..i. ,
'"-CIALI$15. SINf""( 11»
purdlased for-($10 per semester) fro-n The Observer, Box Q, Notre 

.__,.,• ._,~;;:.; ., IIIII 
4
Dame, lndiil'la 46556. Second Class 






BROWNSVILLE STATION
postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
~·····~· " ....... u ~-~-····~··' 
aDd the electric blues of 
LUTHER ALLISON a.-d MAGI
BOOK EXCHANGE SELLERS 
S.turday September 11 
rock from Detroit

MAY PICK UP MONEY AND 
FRIJID PINK 
and formerly of Ides of March 


UNSOLD BOOKS. 
Jim Peterik Blackstone,
Thursday-----Sept. 9 
and 
Sunday September 12 country & western _ 

NARVEL FELTS 
and South Bend's own 
Sout~ S~ore 
and Finals of Battle of Ue hnds 
battle of the bands 11:00 a.m. · 7:00 p.m. daily!
from 6:30 9:30pm. 
llllhUJ Fireworks Display

2nd Floor LaFortune 
corn Roasttsausaue/Re1reshmentsAfter Thursday, all the books 
Tickets: $7.50 for three day pass; $4.00 for Friday and Sunday individual day tickets; $3.00 for Saturday tickets and now on sale at the foUowios River City Review Ticket· Outlets: Just For The Record (Mishawaka), Boosie Rec«ds (Mishawaka). Record Joint (Niles). Suspended Chord (Elkhart & Goshen), Notre
that have not been picked up 
Dame Student Union. Pandora's (South Bend). Jennifer's (Scottsdale Mall), World of Sound (Plymouth) and Cripe's Home Entertainment Ce•ter (Nappunee). Stay tuned to WRBR for further details. 
will become the property of 
Outdoors at Wander Conservation Club 13040 Day Road-Mishawaka 
Directions from South Bend: Edison Rd. East to dead-end at Grape
the Student Union 
Rd. North I block to Day Road. Take Day Road East 4 miles. Gat~s 
open 4:00 p.m. Friday, 11:00 a.Jil. Saturday· ud Sunday. · . 

Thursday, Sept. 9, 1976 the observer 
3

Lacks needed finances 



South Shore may cut rail service to Chicago .. 
by Mike Towle Staff Reporter 

"We can't do the job anymore," stated Albert Dudley, president of the South Shore Railroad in South Bend. His remark came in anticip­ation of a probable discontinuation of rail service by the end of this year. 
The South Shore service from South Bend to Chicago has been a favorite for Notre Dame students. 
"We've had to admit defeat," he said. This problem has been building up over the years, making for a bleak situation. Our passeng­er cars, being more than 50 years old, are rundown and in bad op~rating condition.'' 
In order to remedy their plighl. South Shore sees the need to formulate a public finance plan in the near future. Otherwise, it will be necessary to file for discontinu­ance of service with the Interstate Commerce Commission. Dudley 
belleves that such a decision will be 
made in early December. 
"We can't go on indefinitely," he adds. "There is no money to replace the cars, so the situation grows steadily worse. We have been a private enterprise since 1925, forcing us to depend on gate receipts to cover costs. Presently, our operation is costing us $2.7 million per year." 
Many Notre Dame and St. Mary­'s students have used the South Shore railroad for travel to and from Chicago. Jeff Dargis, a junior 

Carney picnic kicks off weekend 
by Marian Ulicny Staff Reporter 
Carney '76, an annual evening of outdoor festivities will be held on a Friday this year instead of a weeknight as was done in past years. 
Nanette Bufalino, Carney co-ch­airman stated, "We thought it would be to everyone's advantage to have it on Friday, and people would appreciate it more. When it was on a week night, people drifted away to study. On Friday, it'll be the first thing in the big weekend." 
A picnic on both the North and South quads will begin the evenin­
g. The menu includes such typical outdoor fare as foot-long hot dogs, cold fried chicken, lemonade, and watermelon. 
The remaining Carney activities will center on the South quad where the band "Broadcasting Company" will play from S-7 p.m. Fr._Theodore Hesburgh, University president, is tentatively scheculed to speak at 6 p.m. 
Throughout the evening. a disc jockey from WSND will ask trivia questions, with prizes awarded for the correct responses. 

St. Mary's offers voter registration 
Caroline Casey Staff Reporter 
Thursday, Sept. 9, will be the 
last day registration for the' Nov­
ember elections will be offered in 
the St. Mary's cafeteria. Any 
student 18 or over may register 
during the dinner hours by filling 
out a form provided in the lobby. 
No period of residency is required 
for students wishing to vote in the 
St. Joe District. 
Students already registered in 
different districts, who will be at 
school during the elections, should 
write immediately to their district 
requesting an absentee ballot. 
However, if a student perfers to 
vote in the St. Joe District, she 
should register here and it will 
cancel her previous registration. 
The deadline for registering for 
the fall elections is Sept. 20. 
O:tudents who are unable to register 
Thursday should contact one of the 
following students: Karen Rinks, 4197; Anna Monardo, 4093; Susi Gauthier, 4217; Mary Jo Hester, 4222; Ann Bathon, 4456. 

~~Pllltltlb'''J'


i ~ENUR

GOL.F ~ 
'





I -' ~ ~ 
"NIGHT LIGHTED" ~ 

9 HOLE • PAR 3 GOLF COURSE ~ Jorivlne Range 18 Hole Miniature~ 
Open Down Til 10,00 PM ~ 
LOCATED us 33 AT IRONWOOD 

IICall I 288-0033 I I 
: If Nn Ans Colt 282-2366 ~ (_ 1715 LINCOLN WAY EAST SO.•ftojp ~ 
.,,,,,,,,,...-...r. 
•

Due to the cancellation of the onstage. The drawing will be held America concert, two Bruce Sprin­at 6:30p.m. gsteen tickets will be given to the Carney's activities will conclude student who guesses their location. in time for students to attend the 
Those wishing a chance to guess Pitt pep rally at 7 p.m. in the can drop their names in a box Stepan Center. 
Carney raffles Springsteen 
Since the America concert has been cancelled, the Carney'76 co­mmittee has announced it will be offered two tickets to the Bruce Springsteen concert. The tickets will be hidden in the same location as planned for the America tickets. 
Here is the third clue to the hidden springsteen tickets, along with a repeat of the first two clues. Additional clues will be given throughout the week in the observ­er. Anyone has the chance to win the tickets by placing his or her name in the box which will be on the ~tage at Carney '76 Friday night. A name will be picked from the box at 6:30 p.m. and that person can then guess where the tickets are. 
Clue #1 To get to the Springsteen tickets, you must meet at the crossroads, but don't get wet. 
Clue #2. In continuing on your way to finding the Springsteen tickets, looking south, you'll see new before old. Forget the new, and pursue the old. 
Clue# 3 
The tickets will be found in a place you well know--it's near to the place where business majors often 
go. 

~~~/~~~ 
SMOKE STACK 100 CENTER MISHAWAKA 
SPECIALIZING IN QUALITY PIPES, TOBACCO & SMOKERS' ACCESSORIES IF YOU CRAVE FOR IMPORTED CIGARETTES, LOOK NO FARTHER ROTHMAN, DONH ILL EXPORTS AVAILABLE. 
15% DISCOUNT ON ALL PIPES WITH ND-SMC ID. 


~~~ ~ 
PIZZA KING Welcomes back 


NO students 
We invite you to try our delicious 
pizza, hot sandwiches and tasty salads. BEER Special Monday nights. 
Pitchers of Budweiser $1.50 Michelob $1.75 Tues. nite after 4pm--$1 ,00 off 
on all large pizzas. 

130 Dix 
North 272-6017 
fromm Arlington Heights, states, "I've used the South Shore about four or five times since I've Ot:c::ll here. It's less expensive than other available transportation, but is in lousy condition. From npw on, I'll probably either hitchhike home or take an airplane. I think it's worth taxing the people of Indiana to help improve and finance the railroad." 
Another resident of Arlington Heights, sophomore Barb Langhe­nry adds, "It's a pity that South Shore will probably not be operati­ng in the futhre. It has been an economical way to travel." 
At the present time, the South Shore charges $3.10 for one way fare and 6.10 for roundtrip fare, to and from Chicago. Not only is this price less expensive than busfare 

What college women are being pinned 
As a woman ROTC woman encoiled in the paid ... textbook costs student, you'll com­AFROTC 4-year pro­reimbursed ... plus pete for your commis­gram is also qualified $100 a month allow­sion on the same foot· to compete for an ance, tax·free. ing as the men in your AFROTC college schol­A woman's place is class. arship which will definitely in the Air 
There are 2·year, cover the remaining 2 Force and our pinning 3-year, and 4-year or 3 years she has as ceremony will be the scholarship programs a cadet. Tuition is highlight of her col· available. A young covered ... all fees lege experience. 

Put it all together in Air Force ROTC. 
HELD OVER.. JAMES. CAA N 
ELLIOT GOULD-MICHAEL 
CAINE-DIANE KEATON .. IN 

A HARRY-{iWAJ:tER !i..ooTONEWYORK 
W EEKDAYS-7 :00-9:30 SAT.SUN.2:1S-4:40·7 :00-9:30 P.M 
"THIS MOVIE IS A ZINGER AT HEART"·LIZ SMITH COSMOPOLITAN 

or planefare, it is also cheaper than AMTRACK, South Shore's comm­llter counterpart on rails. 1 
Dudley explains, "Although A­MTRACK costs more than 51 1 million per day, it is funded by the federal government. since it was established by the National Rail 1 Service Act in 1970, AMTRACK has realized increasing losses in revenue, but it is still supported by 
l 
the government." 

-Like other modes of public ~ transportation throughout the cou­1 ntry, the South Shore is facing , firtancial problems that necessiata­te concern on the part of the public. Unless a plan is drawn up in the 1 near future. the South Shore servi­ce will be obsolete before the year is out. 
1 
i 
l 
1 AND... SPECIAL REDUCED PRICEI 


DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
*l:t~d.~,~~rver
The Observer is published ion of a majority of the Edito­Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chiefby students of the Univer­rial Board. Commentaries are Dan Sanchez Managing Editor sity of Notre Dame and St. the views of their authors. 
Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed. 

Mary's College. It does not Column space is available to Gregg Bangs Executive Editor necessarily reflect the policies all members of the community, Val Zurblis Executive Editor of either institution. The news and letters are encouraged to Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor 
is reported as accurately and promote the free expression of Bob Mader Exec. News Editor 
as objectively as possible. varying opinions on campus. Maureen Flynn Campus Editor 
Editorials represent the opin-Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor Business Manager Tom Fronczak Don Reimer Copy Editor Advertising Manager Mike Miller Tim O'Reilly Features editor Photo Editor Tony Chifari Fred Herbst Sports Editor Production Manager Martha L. Fanning 
Thursday, Sept. 9, 1976 


Panty Raids 
Anything that happens twice at Notre Dame is a tradition; if it happens three times it is an old tradition and change is taboo. Let the rest of nation's universities advance into the twentieth century if they wish, Notre Dame remains loyal to the nineteenth century style of student life. Panty raids are a beloved part of this style but perhaps it is time for a switch to a new way of expressing the annual pre-game insanity. . 
Though juvenile, there is nothing wrong with the raids as long as they are not destructive. Unfortunately, the last ones were destructive. Notre Dame paid St. Mary's $1300 compensation for panty raid damage in 1974 and 1975. In their eagerness to snatch a piece of underwear, several hundred domers stampeded over shrubbery, knocked out light fixtures, broke doors . and windows, and ransacked rooms. At the end of the festivities most of them did not even have any panties to show for it. 
As unusual as it is for The Observer to agree with the administration, we do think Roemer is right to oppose the raids as long as this sort of destruction is part of them. We hope, though, that his · hard-line 

To Drink: Vote 
What if they held an election and nobody voted ? The question is not as absuid as it seems. The Notre Dame and St. Mary's student bodies have shown an amazing apathy towards student governments elec­tions, and one can't help but wonder if this attitude will be transferred onto the big scale. 
Granted, state and national politics are generally more important and more inter­esting, but the election process also calls for more effort on the part of the voter. Most states require that an unregistered voter register in person with his county ooard of election commissioners. All states require that absentee voters apply for a ballot in writing, at least one month before the election date. 
Students who wish to vote in their home states and are already registered will have to take the time to write to their county clerk, requesting an absentee ballot. 
But many students who have not yet registered as voters will find that they are unable to do so in their home states (without returning home) before October. Others may wish to vote as residents of Indiana, in order to influence legislative decisions especially on the 19-year-old drinking bill. All of these students will have an opportunity to register in the coming week. Members of the Law School and Congressman John Brademas's staff will be sponsoring voter registration drive tomorrow at Stepan Center before and after Sen. Mondale's speech and Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday in front of the dining halls. 
So if you want to drink in Indiana, attend Susan's next White House prom, or chat with Miss lillian in the Rose Room, register. Vote. 
"trespassing is a crime and will be treated 
as such" remark was only intended to 
worry prospective raiders. 
Destructive or not, panty raids show a tremendous lack of originality. H you have seen one pair of panties dangling out a window you have seen them all. With a little imagination students can invent more creative alternative for this popular, but often destructive fall sport. There are many other ways they can release the energy that accumulates before the first football game. They could: 
Strip naked, paint themselves red, white and blue, and go for a mass skinny-dip in the lake. 
Run over to the laundry during the day and have the workers throw men's underwear out at them. They will get something useful and will have as much chance of getting their own clothing as they would if they waited for the usual bundles. 
These possibilities are not traditional but that is only a temporary obstacle. In future years the annual pregame skinny­dip could become a much-beloved Notre Dame tradition. Think of how proud you would be if you could tell your Domer son or daughter, "Itook the first dip." 

OON'TKNOIAI 
fJJI-IY NOT/ 
U?T'5 STAI<T fJJITH 7H& RHO/JtS!AN "­5/TIJATION. 
opinion~~~~~~~~~ 
Here and Loafing 
at Notre Dame 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
"I think we are In rats' alley 
Where the dead men bones"  lost T.S their .Eiiot  
St. Louis bus terminal  

August30,1976 3:00AM 
Despite the fact Eliot was a native Louisian, I'm reasonably sure he never saw this bus station. In fact, if he had, he probably would have thought even in Eng­land he was still too close to America for his own good. The only proof I have that he might have seen 1this unique structure (the only building I know that looks like they built the bathrooms first and then decided to enlarge it) is that line of poetry from The Waste Land ... This Is rats' alley. 
Every time I come here I look to see if the sign has been changed, but so far it's always "Bus Termin­al". The last time I was here I meant to suggest my proposed name change to the station manag­er, but on my way over to his office I was stopped by a man calling for a homosexual or calling me a homo­sexual or some combination of the above.... Still, "Bus Terminal" is appropriate too because there is definitely something very terminal about this place .... 
If I had more energy I might be prompted to infuse this story with a narrative structure and explain just what I'm doing in this godforsaken place at three in the morning but it's not my business to catologue Greyhounds' incompetence . . . The latest episode just ended with my girlfriend screaming at bus officials, "We're not getting on this busI" . . . unfortunately our luggage did. I just hope whoever finally gets my luggage is someone who needs it. 
Admittedly our nerves were al­ready shot. Coming to St. Louis I had awakened from an· uneasy sleep to gaze out my window and, in my state of drowsiness, had mistaken the St. Louis Archway for the opened jaws of a giant land­shark trying to swallow our bus. In my considerable anxiety I grabbed my girlfriend's leg which startled her enough to make her let out a scream that woke up the entire bus. 
My traveling companion has now 
******************* 
john zygm u nt 
calmed down enough to go find two straws for our cokes, leaving me alone to ponder my situation ...All hope of reaching Notre Dame by 3:00PM has vanished. Registration shall have gone on without me. I've gone full circle now: As a freshman, they misplaced all re­cord of John Zygmunt; now as a senior, all of John Zygmunt is misplaced. 
Did I really write that? It must be fumes from the bus. But what does one explain about the past three years having just realized that both your majors are prerequisites for unemployment? How as a fresh­man I had the luxury of being an aspiring writer whereas now as a senior I've become a perspiring one? 
W}\at do you say when half your idealistic freshman friends are now walking around campus wearing T-shirts that say "Willy Loman Did Not Die in Vain," and the other half are doing papers on "The Aesthetics of Sickle Cell Anemia". 
Ah... bad haziness. . .The memories of last year's breakless fall semester. I remember last December my adrenalin gland com­pletely 'dried up with maybe one drop of fluid in it; so pitiful the blood stream doesn't even bother to pick it up. . . I used my final burst of energy and started stag­gering over to the telephone (well, not really staggering; you reallv can't stagger when you're crawl­ing). I somehow knocked the receiver off the hook and began dialing the number with my ton­gue. 
"Hello . . . This is Student Government. The office is now closed, but we will be happy to record your message. Please begin speaking after the tone. You will have 30 seconds." 
I begin jabbering completely out of control telling them of my plan to do immoral things to their bodies with large chunks of crabmeat wrapped up in the results of that idiotic poll they took . . . This goes on unabated for about 20 seconds till I completely lose coherence and begin sounding like a porpoise .... 
This is all becoming too strange. I was supposed to write an article offering sage advice from a battle hardened Senior .... 


Thursday, Sept. 9, 1976 the observer 
a small, very good band 
Editor's note: Whether playing blues, jazz, the thing I like do~ng m~st is. music. I get 
or the beer barrel j>olka Bogen Martin and the Armstrongs cau;e an earthquake of tapping feet in the audience. Perhaps the most popular group at last weekend at Vegetable Buddies. The following inter­view with lead string [often mandolin] player Carl Martin was conducted by features editor Tim O'Relley. 
Observer: Can you tell us how youi' band started? Martin: My band started years ago. My brother, I played for him awhile, he started me on the guitar. He had a string band himself. He was blind, my father's oldest son by his first wife. My daddy was a fiddler, but my brother, I didn't see him until he was in his late forties, when I first met up with him. 
And I don't know what my brother like to play. When I saw him, he had a string band, and he heard me play a piece on the guitar. My brother played back in the days of the blind rollers. And so he said, Carl, come out and play a little; guitar. He said, "You can come out and hit a number or two. I'll take you and teach you how to play. I'd come home in the afternoon from school, and sit down and practice the guitar, and in about two or three weeks I was playing with the band. He'd play all those hillbilly tunes, and I don't know how they couldn't play harder; one or two horns, he played some horn pipes and everything else. He could play that fiddle. Couldn't nobody beat him playing that. They used to have those fiddlin' contests, but they never did let my brother get in, 'cause nobody else could beat him. They knew it, so they let him play a piece or two before the program, but never did let him get in no contest. · 
At that time, I think I was playing guitar and bass fiddle, and then there was another fellow playing the guitar. We would go into little neighboring towns and play, and then I run into Armstrong. He wanted to learn to play; I think my brother inspired him to play the fiddle, because he never played the fiddle before. At first, his mother wouldn't leave home, so we had to keep going back and forth. I was living in Knoxville, Tennesse at the time, and he was living in LaFollette, Tennessee. We grew up together, so eventually he came down to my house, and stayed with me, and we played around together. They made him start out playing the banjo, and I was playing the guitar. 
We played together for a while. Then we left home and travelled around for a couple of years. Washington, Gettysburg, Har­risburg, Roanoake, Virginia, just running around like troubadors. Then when I got home to Knoxville, Armstrong was taken sick, so I went to New York to record at some studio. 
Then I met Bogen one day, he was drunk on the street. He tried out to play guitar for me, but I didn't like the way he played guitar. He was using a thumb pick, so I made him throw it away and pick up a real pick, and had him play a complement, and me and Bogen have been together ever since. Later, me and him and Armstrong got together. That was in '34, then later he went back home, and I retired from music, and we didn't see each other again until '70. 
In '70, some guy who had my records came looking for me, asking, "Where's Carl Martin at?" Someone told him "Well he's right here in Chicago." So he found me, and asked me to play at a festival. I said OK, but that I had a fellow with me, and I thought we would be better playing together. I persuaded him to let me take Bogen with me, and it went over pretty nice. Everybody liked it, and we played around like that in different place. 
Then I told the manager, "I know this other boy named Armstrong who used to play with me years ago. If we get him, we might still be a little better." So he got Armstrong. Then, we played awhile like that, and the people told us. "Boy, you ·all so good you ought to play all over the country. 
I wasn't thinking nothing about that, but I said if I could get a bass fiddle, that will give me a good background. So we got the bass fiddle. We've been going ever since, for six years now. Observer: Have you been on the road a lot since then? Martin: Yes, we've been on the road. We went to South America, we played in Washington, D.C. for the folk festival. They wanted us to go to South America on a good will tour. There were 26 in the group, with some Puerto Ricans, and a string group out of New York. We went to about nine different countries, played for mayors, 'governors, presidents, and am­bassadors, played in hospitals, in arm­ories, at all the colleges and universities, and other institutions for unfortunate kids. We had a nice trip down there for six weeks. 

Once I remember some anti-American feeling. We were in Lima, Peru, and we went down to the dining room to get something to eat. The lights in the dining room were on as bright as day, and the waiters were all standing around, but they wouldn't pay any attention to us. So we walked in, but they all said "nothing more." We asked, "Haven't you got anything, maybe a little eggs and bacon?" And they just answered, "Nothing more." I thought maybe they didn't have any food. 
But that didn't make any sense, since they wouldn't be standing around in their white jackets. So we started ut the door, and here comes two native girls. One was a mestizo, and the other was white, and sat down, and the waiters scurried around like a bunch of rats, getting them all kinds of food. And the next morning, when we had breakfast, we ordered coffee, and they brought it first, so it would be cold before your eggs and bacofi got to the table. Ifwe ordered the bacon and eggs first, it would be cold before you got your coffee. That's what they did to the Americans, to us. 
Then, we went to El Paso, Texas and Salt Lake City, the West Coast, and colleges all over the place, Iowa, Minnesota, the east coast, Ohio and Canada. It's a long road, but I like to reach the people, and when they're happy, I'm happy. I don't play just for myself. 
Observer: When did you first start? Martin: It was back in the late 20's. Today, I'm 70 years old, approaching 71. I've been going pretty good. Observer: Back then, dido 't you face many problems that you don't today? Martin: Yea, there were a lot of problems, but we managed to solve the problems that we had. At a lot of places, we didn't make much money, but the world likes music, everybody likes music. Everywhere we would go, folks would treat us pretty nice. We didn't have much trouble. Sometimes, they would pick us up at a place, take us over the the radio station, and we would broadcast music, and things like that. We didn't have it bad, but things could have been a lot better. There wasn't much money for us. We played in taverns, and night clubs, and places like that. Some­times, years ago, we used to pass the hat 
·around, on the streetcorners, every­
where, ballgames, dances, churches, all 
kinds of places. 
We didn't have a car till practically the 
end of the line. We were walking all over 
the place. We didn't know where we would 
stay or nothin' like that. When we would 
get to the next town, someone would say, 
sit down, and give us a place to eat and a · 
place to spend the night. I'd offer to pay 
the fellow, but he'd say, "No, I've got a son 
somewhere in the world, and I don't know 
how he's doin'," and we just kept on gain' 
like that, and got to be pretty well-known 
around Virginia, Tennessee, Ohio. 
I was born in Virginia, but raised in 
Tennessee. At the age of 12, I left Virginia. 
I came back, but they had to put a tag on 
me because I was too young to go to the 
army in World War I. 
I went in World War II, and played in the 
Special Service band. They bought me a couple instruments. A girl gave me a mandolin. Water in the foxholes ran all over it, so the Army gave me a new one, another fellow bought me a guitar, so I kept the morale up in the Army. When I came out, a lot of people would sing, make a lot of noise in the taverns, so I put an electronic pick-up on it to raise the volume and make it better. Observer: I Imagine that most of your audiences were black. What kind of music did you play to them? Martin: Most of our audiences were white, everywhere we went. That's why I play so many songs other than blues. You see, I never did want to make myself exclusive with just blues alone. People would come in with request, "Can you play this, can you play that," so that's what I learned. In Chicago, you go four blocks and you're in a different neighborhood, in a Polish, Irish German neighborhood. I had to learn the music for everyone of them. That's why I play so many different kinds of music. That's what my partners, play, because that's what the people want. If someone asked for something, and I didn't know it, I'd learn it, go out there again and I've got something. Observer: How do you choose what you play for a show? Martin: Mostly what ever comes into my mind. We haven't got no recipe, or anything like that, just what ever I think of. Mostly, I look at what the people want, I look over my audience, and I can tell what they like. If they don't like what I'm playin', then I change up and give 'em something different. I like to see every­body, you know, happy, happy faces, smiling. I can tell when they are enjoying the music, I can tell from the applause of the crowd, and I try to reach all of them. Observer: I've noticed that you never have any printed music on stage music. How do you do It? Martin: I don't need no music. I look at a piece two or three times, and then I've got it down and don't need it. I throw it away. I've got it all up here, I've got a pretty good 
memory. Observer: But you add your own touch to the tunes, don't you? Martin:That's right. I play the way I feel. I may add to something he's (the composer) got, because when a man puts something on paper, that's just his version there, but there's a whole lot of improving to be made, so I play it constructive, the way the audience wants it. Observer: After so much travelllng, haven't you ever wanted to stay in one spot for awhile? Martin: Oh, year, I like playing in one spot for i\while.Sure, I like that all the time. We used to stay in one spot and just play. Of course in festivals, you play five or six numbers and your time is up, because there are so many performances behind you. But I like to sit and play clubs. I can get to know the music, and somebody will want requests, so it keeps you on your toes 
all the time. 

Observer! You sound and still look very young man. What has kept you going so weD? Martin: Well, music has kept me going. I've never been no fellow to do a lot of drinkin', though folks in the clubs would buy me drinks sometimes, so I would take it.Bnt I never go getting high or drunk. But 
out of bed some ntghts tf a ptece comes to my· mind, and if I can't get it, then I write it down, and practice it the next day. Observer: You never ran around with women very much? Martin: No, I never ran around very much, 'cause you can't carry around w?men. Now, they always hang around, chng to you, and they like musicians, but I never carry none around with me anywhere 'cause it's too difficult, too much involved. What I want to do is to get out and play, and make the people happy, and see if I can reach the people, things like that. Observer: Have the recent civil rights chang~s made much of a difference In your life? Martin: Yea, it would make lots of difference in anybody s life. When I come up, I never had no hard feelings against anybody, and I've been with people all my life, all grades of character, and never had no trouble, anywhere I went. They've all treated me nice. 
I think civil rights is a good thing, I don't have anything against that. A lot of people they accept it, a lot of people don't want ot accept it. But I can face the world, I don't care who it is. The bigger the crowd, the better I like it. Observer: Do you try to keep up with all the new trends In music? Martin: I do. I don't play rock 'n roll music, but I don't have nothing against it. There are so many people playing it that I just play a little something different. Observer: How long do you think you can keep going? . Martin: I can keep going as long as I can move my fingers, a long time yet. Observer: What made you retire the first time? Martin: I played with one boy that did a lot of drinking. I'd get engagements, he'd get drunk and I couldn't show up. I was getting a bad name because of that. I got a reputation of being undependable, so I had to go to work. I worked for the Bureau of Electricitv in the Cityl of Chicago. Then I got the O'ffer to start up again, and have been busy ever since. Observer: Do you try to pattern yourself after any other musician or composers? Martin: I know a lot of fellows who try to pattern themselves after me, but I never play nobody's style. I play my own style. Observer: What do yo think of the young musicians coming up today? Martin: They have a wonderful future. They have a lot of inspiration through the festivals that they have here, because a lot of young people are learning to play guitars, and mandolins, and other instru­ments. People have a good chance to learn today, and get sent all over the world, because people everywhere love music. 
The fellows from the record companies, they set their apparatus in you hotel room, and give you a chance to make good, but they're nothing but con men. Your go in with the intention of making good, and they tell you they will pay you back when the record is cleared. Then they record all the music, clear it up and tell you that they'll call back, but never do. They exploit the music for their own purposes. 
That's why I like to do live music. If I can make 5,000 people happy that makes me happy, and we've got no problems. 
· A lot of young blues players come from the plantations, they live the life, pick cotton in the fields, sing them very close to life. When they live the life everyday, it is easy to put it into words. A city boy grows up in the wrong environment, he'll never make a good blues player, they don't have the right inspiration. Observer: Who are some of the more famous people you've worked with? Martin: I've worked with Chapel Ridge, Memphis. Barnaby Slim, Muddy Waters, Leroy Cline. I've worked with most of the famous ones. But I didn't go with them because they play exclusive blue. I like to play all styles of music, so I went my own way. Observer: Do you think your musical talent Is a gift? Martin~ It is, it is. For some people, it's easy to learn, while some people never learn. It takes a lot of practice, a lot of patience, but it can be licked. . Observer:Over your long life, can you look back on It with any complaints? Martin: No, not really. I can remember a lot of time when things could have been better. But I've always had my music and that's all I need to keep me happy. It's been a good life, so I've got no complaints. 
Observer: Thank you Mr. Martin. 


Thursday, Sept. 9, 1976
the observer 




ND women's golf team varies style 




SR-56 
The super slide rule programmable powerhouse 
...with 10 memories and 100 prOgram steps. 

The edge you need. Now. And in your career. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Texas Instruments will rebate $10.00 of your original I SR-56 purchase price when you return this coupon and your SR-56 customer information card post­Name marked no later than October 31, 1976. To apply: 
1. Fill out this coupon  Address  
2. Fill  out special  serialized  customer  information  City  State  Zip  
card inside SR-56 box 3. Return completed coupon and information card to:  University  
Special Campus Offer  Name of SA-56 Retailer  I I  
P.O. Box 1210 Richardson, Texas 75080  SA-56  Serial No. (from back of calculator) Please allow 30 days for rebate  I I I  

L-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
by Mark Scribner strictly competitive approach of periodically give lessons to the past seasons will be modified to club's members. Miss Hotvedt 
A new technique is being introd­include personal instruction on all feels these sessions are especially uced to the women's gold team this levels of the game. beneficial to the five freshmen on year which hopefully will improve Miss Hotvedt, along with men's the squad, since they will be the club sport's program and golf coach Noel O'Sullivan and afforded many extra hours of caliber of play. According to Astrid Kathy Cordess, a new addition to practice outside of a competitive Hotvedt, the squad's coach, the the women's athletic staff, will atmosphere. · 

Irish women hold track tryouts 
by Mark Perry will be ex~rcisi_ng. working on followed by the tryouts and the weights, swtmmmg and" doing beginning of the indoor season. other activities to develop strength The schedule for the indoor season 
Approximately sixty girls will and stamina. is still being worked out, and the begin an intense six-week workout The workout program is open to amount of meets scheduled will be program this Thursday in prepara­any girl, even if she doesn't intend dependant on how much interest is tion for the upcoming girls track to try· out for the team, but just shown over the fall. season at Notre Dame. wants to get in shape. Any girl who Any girl interested in trying out 
Sue Behnke, who is in charge of has serious intentions of trying out for the team or who just wants to the girls track program this season, is advised to work out some on her know more about the workout said that practices will be held own in addition to the scheduled program should contact Sue every Tuesday, Thursday, and workout. Behnke at 6169 or at 131 Lewis Saturday at 5 pm at the Rockne Also scheduled are two intra­Hall, or come to the first practice Memorial. mural meets, to be held in late session, tomorrow at the Rockne 
In addition to running, the girls September and early October, to be Memorial. 
These freshmen will be valuable tournaments; the major tourney is additions to the golfers returning sponsored by the Midwest Associ­from last year who will be led by ation of Intercollegiate Athletics for captain Barbara Breesmen. The Women and will be held in mid-O­senior from Lewistown, Pennsylva­ctober. The Notre Dame women nia expects to be ably supported by hope to compete well enough '­senior teammates Louise Karas, advance to the national tournament Sue Fitzpatrick, and Kathy Riorda­in June. 
n. Further help should come from Anyone who is interested can Ellen Hughes and Linda Sisson, still join the team and is urged to two experienced golfers who didn't attend the club meetings which are play last season. held every Wednesday night at 
Coach Hotvedt's group is already .6:30 in the driving range room of invited to a number of weekend the Rockne Memorial. 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT All club leaders who missed meeting on Monday; MUST call Jodie 1333 today if they wish to participate in Activities night 

The SR-56 is a tremen­dously powerful slide rule calculator. Yet you can pro­gram it whenever you're ready. 
T h e r e are 7 4 p r e p r o ­grammed functions and op­
erations.  You  can  do  
arithmetic  within  all  10  
memoriesf.  It has AOS-a  

unique algebraic operating system that lets you handle problems with up to 9 levels of parentheses. There's also polar to rectangular con­version-built in. Mean. Standard deviation. De­grees, radians, grads. And, it works with TI's new printer-the PC-100. 
Chances are, you'll be pro-
SPECIAL SR-56


s1ooo 
Rebate Fill out coupon 
gramming. That's what pro­fessionals in your field are doing-right now. And with an SR-56 you're ready. It has 100-merged prefix pro­gram steps. 6 logical deci­sion functions. 4 levels of subroutines. You can decre­ment and skip on zero to iterate a loop as many times as you specify. There are 4 levels of subroutine to let you use your program steps to maximum advantage., And, you can even compare a test register with the dis­play to make a conditional branch. So you can check an 
intermediate  result  ~  
for convergence, or a  Vr  
maximum.  

·Suggested retail price. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS
t11 with the T-register. ([) 1976 Texas Instruments Incorporated INCORPORATED 65539 



--~ -~~---------


Notiaes 

Desperately need 4 Pitt tickets. Call. Colleen 4-5170.
Will teach flute in )OUr spare time. Call Beth -8112 for rmre info. 
Need one Pitt ticket. Call MaryIBEER BEER BEIR For the best 1280. 
buy.; on kegs & a!lleS call Chip 
288-7878. 
Babysitter Mon-Fri 9:00-1:30. 233-8822. 
Sl$1 ASPEN X-masl:nlak. Low, low group rates. /1/v:re info call in 
Needed:. 5 G. A. tix for Purdue.
afternoons 2-4 John 283-2613. 
Call Tim 1802. 

Doc. Pierce's Salem & Restaurant General Admission tix needed for 
is hiring Full or Rrt-time NOW. 
Pitt game. Call 6153. 

Bartenders, W aila1i, Waitresses, 
Busboys. Will scta:Jule around Desperately need 4 G.A. Pitt academic commitmrrts. Apply in tickets -at least two together. 
person between 2 a'1d 4 PM at Money is no object. Call Dick 120 North Main Sln3et, Mishawaka, 1657 or 233-1115. 
Phone 255-7737. An An Equal 
Opportunity Employer. 
Desperately need one GA Pitt ticket. Contact Chuck 1376. 
Morrisey Loan R.rd $20-150. 1 day wait. 1 pertEnt interest 
Desperately need 2 tickets to Pitt 
due in 30 days. LaFortune Base­game. Call Joe 283-1007. 
ment, M-F 11:15-12:15. Desperately need 1 Pitt tix. Will 
First meeting Gay Community of pay top$. Charlie 6813. 
Notre Dame September 9. lnfo­
P. 0. Box 206 Notre Dame. 
Desperately need 1 Pitt & Purdue ticket. Please call JoAnn -5489. 
Final copies of the 1976 Mock Convention Platform are available 
Mr. Leo C. Hansen is hereby 
to any interested student at the announcing he is seeking a Purdue 
Student Gov't Offices on 2nd floor ticket. Inquire 1650~ 
LaFortune. Ask the secretary for a copy. 
I will pay top dollar for G.A. Pitt tickets. Call Tim 1868. 
Accurate, Fast Typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. 
Desperately need two Purdue tix. Call Russ at 8764. 
For Rent 

2 pair Gen. Adm. Pitt tickets needed. Mark 287-5713. 
Roomate needed. Own room $62.50 mo. plus utilities. 702 Howard. 
Need 2 Pitt tix. Call Tom at 
No phone yet so come by ­7471 or 288-8417. 
Robert. Willing to swap 2 Pitt tix for 2 
4 bedroom house for rent in NO Alabama or Purdue tix. Call collect 
area. $350 plus deposit. Call Jim 314-227-8673. Ask for Jim. 
Zimmer, (616) 445-2471. 7 a.m.~ 4:30p.m. 
Need 4 tix tor Arrerica. Preferably padded seats. No ripoff, please. 
Lost& Found Call 289-1431. 

Lost ~ Kubiak's -8-31 -1 Cross In dire need of 2 Oregon tix. 
pen, great personal value -Reward Call Don at 8183. 
Call Pat 683-0956. Need 1 Pitt tid<et. Call Jim 
Wanted at 277-0067. 

Desperately need 1 Pitt tix, GA Must have 2 PUrdue tix for 
or student. Call Mark at 8330. 
(tuition paying) parents. Please help! 3540. 
Need 1 Pitt tid<et desperately. 
Call Mark at 1079. 
Need 2 GA tickets for Oregon. Will pay$$$. Call Steve 3185. 
Needed! Football tickets to any ND home games. Call 6617 ask 
Babysitter needed for 1. 2, or 3 
for Mark. 
full days per week; in our home; 
Desperately need one Pitt ticket must have own transportation. 
for favorite Hoosier farm girl. 
$1.50 per hour. Phone 283-6619 
Call Tom, 8684. 
or 288-9892. 

------------------------------... 
Come to Barb's massage parlor. 435 McCandless. Call 4160.

On Monday, September 6 The Ubrary submitted an advertisement CUbrary Notes 1 ) to be inserted 
Rumor has it that TJK's birthday 

in Tuesday's observer. A cnntroversy arose over 
is coming up soon. 

the cnntent of the cartoon strip and without first 
Ed Van Tassel wants to ·see his

cnnsulting Rick Kanser of The Ubrary, the ad was 
name in the paper. The Observer

removed at the last minute. We apologize to Rick 
always strives to please, so:

for our lack of foresight and would like to assure 
ED VAN TASSB_. 

him that such actions will not be repeated in the future. 
For Sale 
For sale: 2 GA Pitt tickets. will take best offer. Call 4-4006. 
Teac cassette ded<. $315 or make offer, Loft !10 1689. 
For sale, REFRIGERATOR--Large, Regulation l~oom Size. In excellenl condition. Contact 233-3721. 
For Sale: 1973 Chevy Van. Interior finished. $2000. Call in afternoon, 2-4. 288-2613. 
1967 VW Bug $265. Call 272-5435 between 3 :30 and 5 P.M. 
For Sale: 2 rugs 10' by 14' 
dark green; 6 rrnnth old albums. Must be sold, ~ condition. Call Jim 3333 after 6:30 pm. 
'64 Dodge pick-up. Runs. Needs work. $200 or best offer. 272-7360. 
Plants for sale. Reasonable prices. 920 Notre Dame 232-5164. 
Ladies 3-speed bicycle-excellent condition. $50. 272-7360. 
MEXICAN BELTS: Leather; Leathe -Suede with wooden or leather buckles. All sizes only $10.00. Call "Big Money Murf" anytime. 234-8858. 
Wanna sit with the Wildcats? Give 'em a little Irish grief? Sit on the Northwestern side Sept. 25 and pass a few up. For tix call Mary 8125. 
Personals 
Male Kitten -8 weeks old. Need good home. Call 234-9189. 
For all you girls who have been trying to locate Mark Lucas, Morrissey Manor sweetheart, his phone number is 3430. 
WELCOME BACK LEMON BABIES! Can't believe you're seniors! Ready for another year of studying? Well, at least you'll be able to go to the Senior Bar-­after all those long dry years o waiting. And the cow jumped over the moon. J. & J. in CA. 
Yo there, The above ad was placed by the Dlugolecki, fellas. VRT 
Will trade 2 Pitt tickets for date. St. Camille 4829. 
Realize your full potential. Call Karen 4050. 
Sue Margiotta put dov.n that fork! 

S25!! To the lucky finder of a clear SONY 7015 STEREO RECEIVER. framed pair of glasses, lost in the 15 watts per dl11nne1. 6 wks old. vicinity of the bars. Thomas S170 new, sell S115. Cilll Dave, Walrath 5-76 is imprinted on frame. 8810. If found call immediately--my eyes are going bad. Tom, 288-0088. 
Close to Campus NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS 
2 bedrooms -Completely Furnished 
$260.00 per ·Month 
Up. to 4 Stude~ts 
23_3·6363 or 234·6647 

J

L----------= 

DO WE HAVE ENOUGH COLD DRAFT BEER FOR EVERYBODY AT NOTRE DAME & STMARY'S? 
/ 



;JUST 


BARREL-Y. 

•


10% DISCOUNT 
with ND-SMC 1.0. 

FOUR LOCATIONS 

12th St. Uquor Store POrtage Party Shop 12th St. in Mishawaka 826 Portage Avenue Phone 259-8634 Phone 232-8858 
River Park 11 Mishawaka Ave. 
ALL STORES OPEN NIGHTS 'TILL 11PM 

.. 
• 
Thursday, Sept. 9, 1976
the observer 

The Irish football managers: an integral part of ND sports 
by Bob Keen on road trips so that these plans the feelings of the group when he may be promptly kept." stated, "Itgave me the opportunity 
The question always arises du­ring the football season as to who Tom Hackett, an accounting to become an active participant in are· the most underrated people in major from Middletown, Ohio is the Notre Dame football program." 
the last member of this hard They did concede, however, thatthe athletic program. One might 
working team. He is Associate this was not the sole benefit ofoffer the names of Dan Buck, Bob Football Manager in Charge of being a football manager. SuchHull, and Tom Hackett as possible Equipment. His duties require him things as travel, financial aid andcandidates. You might ask, "but to work closely with Gene O'Neil, personal contacts with people inwho are they, and what do they varsity equipment manager. Ha­the football program were regardedhave to do with the Notre Dame ckett is directly responsible for all as major benefits of the managerial football program?" They are the the equipment on the practice and profession.
head football managers. 
game fields. "I am responsible for They all believe that their pers­This tireless trio of seniors is 
headed by Dan Buck, a metallur­making sure that all players' pective down on the field is much equipment bags are properly pack­different from that of the ordinary
gical engineer from Allentown, Pa. 
ed, with the help of many sopho­fan in the stands. Hull explains,He explains, "I am the direct more and junior managers, the "We feel the same intensity ofliaison between Coach Devine and night before every game,'' says emotion as the players and coach­the other managers, in that it is my Hackett. es. The playing field is a complete­responsibility to make sure that his They were in total agreement in ly different world." 
directives are accomplished. •• expressing that their first and Hackett expresses his feelings ofBuck is also directly responsible for 
foremost function was: "To make pride when he says, "Saturdaythe actions of the underclassman things as comfortable as possible afternoons make all the work of late managers in all other varsity for the coaches and players during Friday nights worthwhile." 
sports. 
practices and games.'' The head football managers per­The Associate Football Manager Through active competition dur­form an essential service for bothin Charge of Personnel is the title 
given to Bob Hull, an accounting ing their underclassman years each the football team and Notre Dame. member attained a very high This Saturday afternoon when the
major from North Haven, Ct. 
ranking in the minds of their
Hull's duties require him to work in Notre Dame football team charges
predecessors which enabled. them some
close conjunction with Joe O'Brien, onto the field perhaps app­business manager of athletics. 
to become head football managers. lause should be reserved for Dan 
Hull's responsibilities concern tra­This duty requires 35 to 40 hours of Buck, Bob Hull, Tom Hackett, and vel plans, pre-game meals, and their time a week. their hardworking staff whose work academic conflicts. "I am respon­You might now ask why were may often go unnoticed by the fans sible for informing players and they interested in becoming foot­but never by the players and coaches of scheduling plans when ball managers? Hull summed up coaches. · 

NFC Predictions 

The past few seasons in the NFC have been rather and Larry Gaines leading the way. And the defense, repetitious; the same teams arll always in the led by CB Lem Barney and DT Herb Orvis, is playoffs. This year should bring the changing of the reminisent of Lions during the early sixties. The guard. The teams that should reach the playoffs Lions should finally get the top spot in the NFC are: St. Louis, Dallas, Detroit, and Los Angeles. central. The St. Louis Cardinals should come out of this Minnesota -The Vikings ar getting old. Last year playoff scramble to reach the super B.owl for the first may have been their last chance to vie for the title. time in their history. The winner of this Pittsburgh -Ageless Fran Tarkenton should be as good as ever, St. Louis battle is a toss-up for the time being. but elder statesmen such as Carl Eller and Jim 
Marshell are not as effective as they once were. The NFCEAST Vikings will have all they can do to win their division. 
.. St. Louts -The Cardinals have won two consectutive Green Bay-Bart Starr must be wondering why he Eastern divisional titles, but they have yet to win a -ever left the car business. Jim Carter, the .Playoff game. This season should bring an e~d to cornerstone of the defense, broke his arm and will that losing skein. The offense, which has carried the be out indefinitely Lynn Dickey will be a good QB, Cardinals these past two seasons, is as good as ever. but he needs help. 
Quarterback Jim Hart, running backs Terry Metcalf .Chicago -Well the lowly Bears must face yet another and Jim Otis, and wide receiver Mel Gray all return season. GM Jim Finks is doing a rebuilding job, but to the NFL's most explosive offense. The formerly he needs time. In the meantime fans can only hope mediocre ~efense has many new, talented indi­that the Bears will, as their fight song says, bear viduals. Defensive linemen John Zook, Marv down. Upshaw, and Walt Patulski, a Notre Dame product, will help to improve the defense. The Cards goad is, NFCWest of course, to win the Super Bowl and, at his point, it is a distinct possibility. Los Angeles • The Rams are the class of the NFC Dallas -While new personnel continues to infiltrate West. Talented players such as John Cappeletti the old Cowboy faces the level of performance rarely see playing time. The offense has a bevy of continues to be outstanding. The Cowboys need backs, a powerful line, and fleet wide receivers. The good performances from the likes of middle defense has Jack Youngblood and he could make linebacker Randy White, outside linebacker Bob any defense great. The Rams will be in the thick of Breunig, and safety Randy Hughes to have a chance things at playoff time. to return to the Super Bowl. While this is only a San Francisco-The Forty-Niners may finally return possibility, a playoff bid seems certain. to the form they showed in the early seventies this Washington-George Allen and his ice cream lovers season. New coach Monte Clark and Jimm Plunkett, Bought some new faces during the winter, notable the 49ers' new quarterback, give this team a much running backs John Riggins, and Calvin Hill, and needed fresh look. The offense has a plethora of tight end Jean Fugett. While these additions running backs and they should be able to control the certainly will not hurt, the Redskins need more help ball. The defense is adequate and has no major in the offensive line and cornerback areas. The weaknessess. A second place finish seems likely. Over-the Hill-Gang may have peaked two years ago. Atlanta-The Falcons are in a holding pattern; they 
N.Y. [N.J.l Giants -The 1976 Giants have a new are somewhat improved but not enough to make a stadium in the New Jersey Meadowlands, a ne\v run for the title. Steve Bartkowski is yet another fullback in Larry Csonka, and the toughest schedule young QB who is approaching stardom; he too lacks in tht NFL. Many of the younger players, the supporting cast of a contender. The trade of DE particularly offl!llsive tackle John Hicks, strong John Zook illustrates the fact that the Falcons safety Clyde Powers, and outside linebacker Bran themselves realize that they are still a few years VanPelt, are approaching star status, but he away from a title. won-less record of this club may not improve New Orleans • Hank Stram is the new coach on because of the monstrous schedule. Bourbon Street, but there is no excitement there. Pblladelphia-If new mentor 1Dick Vermiel dupli­Folk-hero Archie Manning is injured again and the cates his UCLA feat of reaching Pasadena this Saints appear headed for another forgettable
• January, the city of Brotherely Love will be in a state season. Rookies Chuck Muncie and Tony Galbreath of shock. This year, however, his troops are the will gain invaluable experience this season, but the lowly Eagles not the mighty Bruins. Mike Boyryla rest of the team will only grow old. will be a star at quarterback, but the rest of the team Tampa Bay • Former Irish foe John McKay may needs overhauling. ' experience his first losing season in recent memory 
.. 
this year. The Buccanneers do not seem to be quite NFCCentral as bad· as the new Seattle franchise, they at least 
have a QB with some NFL experience, Steve Detroit -Coach Rick Forzano has promised that the Spurrier. The Selmon brothers could help make the Lions will reach the playoffs by 1977, or he would defense reach NFL standards, but no winning record quit. He may achieve his goal a year early. The is in sight. offense is fine with running backs Dexter Bussey Dan Buck, Bob Hull and Tom Hackett, Notre Dame's head football managers, perform duties which often go unnoticed. 

St. Mary's tennis team scores opening victory 

participated in a tight match be­by Patti Doyle tween Munari and Velozquez; it 
Last night, St. Mary's tennis ended with a tiebreaker, 11-10, in team defeated the women's team favor of Purdue. from University of Purdue at SMC coach Mark Peterson is Calumet in their first match of the extremely optimistic about this season. years' team. He feels the new 
On the singles lineup, all six freshmen are very promising and women from SMC recorded wins. that they will add good depth to the Noreen Bracken, a freshman from team. Out of the twelve girls New Jersey, defeated Nelson 6-3, competing last night, seven were 6-3. Ann Daniels, also a freshman, freshmen. came out a 6-3, 6-0 winner in her "We're relying heavily on fresh­match against Munaki. Tami men in the upcoming matches this Griffen and Marie McKee defeated season and I feel they need the both their opponents 6-0, 6-3 and experience,'' Peterson said. ''This 6-3, 6-1 respectively. Maura match was an excellent opportunity Finneran took Velozquez 6-0, 6-4 to give the girls some experience and Karen Midock, co-captain, before taking on Indiana State this defeated Saliga 6-0, 6-0. In Saturday. Our number one and two doubles, Lynn Griffin, co-captain, players Barb Timm and Louise and Lisa Donovan defeated Repax Purcell didn't play tonight in order and Pastenak 10-1. to allow some practice for the new 
The same score was the outcome freshmen." for the doubles match between , Mary McManas and Susan Tyrell 
Track meeting

of SMC and Dowling and Nelson of Purdue, Calumet campus. Kath­leen Bracken and Sue Marget, both There will be a meeting for all freshmen competing for SMC, those interested in going out for 
either indoor or outdoor track this Tuesday, Sept. 14, at 4 p.m. in the 
Dillon hosts rally ACC auditorium. 
Dillon Hall will host its annual SMC volleyball pep rally tonight in the Dillon courtyard. Featured speakers will interest meetingbe co-captains Willie Fry and Mark McLane along with Luther Bradley Volleyball tryouts for all St. and linebacker coach George Kelly. Mary's students interested in join­
The rally gets under way at 8 p.m. ing the team, will be held tonight, with a special appearance by Tony Sept. 9, at Moreau Semi~ary from Dorsett. 5:30 to 7 p.m. 




Cross-country 


The Notre Dame community is understandably excited over this weekend's battle with Pittsburgh, afterall, this is without a doubt the biggest opener the Irish gridders have had in years. But it's not the only home opener for Notre Dame on Saturday. 
At 11 a.m. Saturday the Irish cross-country team open their season at the Burke Memorial Golf Course against Purdue. Granted, cross-c'Ottntry doesn't quite rate with football as the most glamorous sport on campus, but to the members of the team victory brings the same feeling of accomplishment that it brings to the football team. . 
In any sport, practice is drudgery. But consider cross-country, an athlete runs 80 or more miles a week in practice--for what? It's not for scholarship, Notre Dame doesn't give full NCAA scholarships to their harriers. It certainly isn't for a big professional contract after graduation. How many pro cross-country runners do you know? And heaven knows it's not for glory. It's not often that one hears of a Notre Dame runner being mobbed by adoring fans. 
So why does a guy run around all week without any .apparent reward? The answer is simple--it's because he's an athlete, someone who thrives on competition. Not so much competition against others such as in football and basketball, but rather competition within yourself. 
In no other sport is competition within as prominent as in cross-country. The cross-country runner is a rare type of athlete today. One that deserves both recognition and respect . 
Saturday'.s football game doesn't start until3:20 p.m. so there shouldn't be too awful much happening around 11 a.m. Nothing much that is, except for the cross-country team's season opener. Why not go down to the golf course to watch the team run and give them some of the recognition and respect they deserve? 
.. 





