
server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary'sVol. XI, No. 45 Wednesday, November 10, 1976 
According to WSND manager 
Hockey broadcasts allowable under FCC rules 
by Barbara Breitenstein According to Bro. Just Paczesny, 
Senior Staff Reporter University vice-president for stu­
dent affairs, in an Oct. 13 article of 

Licensing regulations for WSND the Observer, the coverage of radio provide for enough air time tp hockey games on the FM station permit the broadcasting of Notre was prohibited because WSND is a Dame hockey games on the FM fine arts station and hockey is not a station, according to Dom Fanuel-fine art. le, station manager. However, according to Fanuele, 
The license renewal for WSND the FCC originally chartered which was approved by the Federal WSND-FM as a "non-commercial Communications Commission educational station," not a "fine (FCC) in August of this year. arts station," and does not specify includes approximately 20 hours what should be broadcast by the per week for local programming. station. including news and sports cover-"It's non-commercial." Fanuele age. The approximately six hours explained, "which means we can't which would be required to broad-sell advertising and must avoid all cast hockey games out of 117 total commercialism. It's also educa­weekly broadcasting hours for the tional. which means informational station could be contained within programming. I don't think that 

Other topics discussed last night were the Student Affairs 
Advisory Board and the Rockne Trophy. (Photo by joe Burns) 

Roemer to receive request to speak at HPC meeting 
byTomByme to Student Affairs." 
Senior Staff Reporter Asked about the reaction of 
Student Affairs to Saturday night's 

Dean of Students James Roemer disorder after a dance in LaFor­will be invited to address next tune, Lavender revealed that the Tuesday's Hall Presidents Council board has suggested measures to meeting as a result of concern prevent a similar situation from expressed by council members occurring in the future. last night about recent disciplinary "The problem was that the actions. police were not called in for 45 
minutes," she said. "We recom­

''I'd like Dean Roemer to explain mended that security have a con­his disciplinary procedures," said tingency plan to call the South Flanner Hall President Mark Eck. Bend or state police rather than "I'd like to know the procedures he just waiting around." goes through to determine the Another board member, Mark punishment for each violation of Klein, remarked that an existing University regulations." policy against large congregations 
Several other hall presidents also of persons not enrolled in the voiced their confusion about recent University had been overlooked incidents in Sorin and Lyons. Saturday night. "They made an 
HPC Chairman J.P. Russell exception because the Black Cul­pledged to "extend an invitation" tural Art!> Committee didn't have to Roemer to speak at next week's enough members to throw a par­meeting in Grace. ty." 
The HPC also heard from the The Rockne Trophy for the Student Affairs Advisory Board, a month of October was awarded at panel of four students which pro­last night's meeting to Stanford vide student input for the Office of Hall, in recognition of its "superior Student Affairs, headed by Bro. activities," and "overt hall spirit," Just Paczesny. displayed in the construction of a 
"We meet with Student Affairs new food sales facility and in the to provide feedback,'' explained opening of their new television Jerry Klingenberger, one of the lounge. Lewis finished second, board members. "We just want to followed by Howard, while Holy let you (the HPC) know that there is Cross and Pangborn received hon­a channel." orable mention. 
What we'd like to happen," · The trophy is awarded monthly added panel member Robin Laven­to the hall sponsoring the most der "is for you to take this back to activities for that month. A rotating your hall councils and let them committee of former hall presi­know that there is a channel open dents judge the entries. 
needed to air hockey would endan­"discontinue the practice" of cov­ger the purpose of the station." ering hockey. Fanuele took this 
Fanuele explained that when the statement as merely a request and WSND license was renewed by the continued to investigate the possi­FCC, the number of hours which bility of broadcasting hockey. the station would be using. for Paczesny took this action as a various types of broadcasting mat­"threat" to defy the University erial was . also approved. This authority over programming and included 17.31 percent of the total responded with a statement that hours for local broadcasting, 79.48 the station budget would be cut and percent for recorded programs and the station manager fired if WSND 
3.21 percent for network broad­aired the hockey games. WSND casts. therefore, decided against covering 
"We do have a committment to hockey. broadcast more public affairs," In the publicity following this Fanuele said. "but this would fall decision, Paczesny explained that under the recorded programming the Uniwrsity administration is the heading." The broadcasting of "boss" of WSND and can order it hockey games would be local not to broadcast hockey games if it broadcasting, Fanuele continued. chooses. "He who pays is in 
The eontroversy began when charge." Paczesny said. Paczesny "requested" the station Paczesny also replied he inter­

'Mildly illuminating' report shows less grade inflation 
by Maureen Flynn Five percent of those responding Campus Editor said "concern for students' com­petitive advantage in seeking post­graduate or professional educa­The results of a Faculty Senate tions" had "great influence" on survey on grade inflation were their grading patterns and 28 "mildly illuminating, but not part­percent said it had "some influ­icualarly startling." according to a 

ence. 
report presented to the Senate last Seventeen percent indicated that 
night by its committee on Student "the designation Of B-as the Affairs. 
average grade" had "great influ­The committee, under the direc­ence" on their grading patterns,
tion of Dr. Sheridan P. McCabe. 
while 27 percent said it had "some conducted a survey last spring influence." 
among the teaching faculty of "No average grade is designatedNotre Dame covering "current 
in the current catalogue, du Lac, grading practice. opinions regard­Faculty Handbook, or gradeing the rationale for grading and sheet;" the report notes, "but B­opinions on various options in the has been designated "average" on revision of the grading practice." 
some grade sheets in the recent 
The report also contains tables of past" (Fall, 1974)grade distribution by department 
The report observes that the high in the Spring semesters of 196(-. 
scon: of the designated average1969, 1971 and 1975 and the factor "may suggest a general
average cummulative and semester 
misperception regarding the stan­GPA's by college in the Spring dard for average on campus."semesters from 1961 through 1975. These figures, the report notes, "support the opinion of some national experts that the grade inflation effect is levelling off and is not an accelerating process." Sixty-three percent of the faculty responded to the Senate Survey, and responses were correlated with their rank, college, age and years of teaching experience. Respondents reported an aver­age grade of B or B-for undergrad­uates and A-or B for graduates. They were asked to rate the importance of various factors in determining grades and to state their attitude toward a number of grading options. 

man of the Faculty Senate, makes Thirty percent of those respond­a 
point at the Senate's meeting
ing "strongly agreed and thirty ­last night. (Photo by joe Burns)
five percent agreed" that "an average grade ought to be specified In other business, the Senate in any system." discussed the experimental policy 
The respondents also voted · of giving midsemester grades to overwhelmingly not to eliminate freshman. Senate members gen­the grade "F" or "Fail." erally agreed with Prof. Norman 
The Senate recommended that Haaser, that it is "a good idea its Student Affairs Committee fur­where it can be done," but ther investigate the possibility that expressed reservations regarding the quality of students at Notre the decision-making process and 
Dame may have increased. Senate some aspects of the policy's imple­Vice-Chairman William E. Biles mentation. 
noted that the introduction of Chairman James Danehy said women at Notre Dame has given that Senate recommendations con­Admissions a wider base of stu­cerning the 8 a.m. examination 
dents from which to choose. policy have been forwarded by the 
"In general," the report states, Provost, Fr. James T. Burtchaell. "the faculty believe that their to the Executive committee of the grading practices are relatively Academic Council. The Council unaffected by external factors and will consider the Senate's resolu­pressures and that they continue to tion that the policy be suspended be based primarily on the perfor­and evaluated at one of its future mance of the students." meetings. 
fered in the station programming in this instance to keep the station consistent with its original princi­ples. 
Station to submit report 

Fanuele plans to draft a report describing the reasons why WSND had decided to broadt·ast ho.:kcv. This report will be submitted to Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. Universit\ president; Fr. Edmund Joyce. Uni­versity executive vice-president and official station license-holder: Paczensv; Bro. John Benesh. direc­tor of student a~tivities. the Faculty Senate and the Hall President"s Council. (HPC). 
The report will be a "concrete 
statement as to the rights and 
freedoms" which student media 
are guaranteed in the du Lac 
student manual. Fanuele stated. 
"The issue is not so much what we 
cannot air hockev as it is that the 
administrations ·stepped into our 
programming.·· he said. 
""In the past. we have had the 
diversity to air hockey." Fanuele 
continued. ·'The decision which 
prohibits our doing so is in violation 
of the guidelines for the freedom of 
the student press stated in the 
duLac student manual. 
Fanuele stated WSND has re­
ceived letters both in support of 
and against the station· s view, but 
"we have been encouraged that the 
other media and students back us 
up. 
Fanuele quoted a letter written by Joyce in response to a letter of support for WSND from Pete Webber. ND alumnus. who origi­nated hockey coverage on WSND. "We shall sec what happens in regard to hockey broadcasting." Joyce stated. "I generally try not to get involved in decisions affect­ing the student radio station. It is good for them to work out their own problems." Joyce's letter was dated Oct. 4. three davs after Paczesny's decision against hockey broadcasts. 
Fanuele also quoted a Jetter from University Provost James T. Burtchaell to Paul Bollwerk. WSND station manager in 1974-75. According to Fanuele. the reply made references to the effet·t that programming on WSND was "not as excellent" as station WAUS at Andrews University in Barion Springs. Michigan. 
"Our problem is the money." Fanucle complained. "That station has paid staffs and full-time em­ployees. It is a fine arts station, but we are looking into the possibility that it is almost a professional station." 
"One stipulation we made about covering hockey this year was that we would not go into the hole," he continued. "We can cover awav football games on AM because the travel expenses are minimal. They are close, within driving range." 
Fanuele explained that the AM station does not have enough money to cover away hockey games, while the FM station does. 
These points will be included in Fanuele's report. which will be completed by the end of this semester. Fanuele hopes the report will enable WSND to broad­cast the hockey play-off games in March. 
Paczesny refused to comment or to be interviewed until the report is completed and submitted to him. 
Joyce, the official license-holder for the station, explained he was not t involved in the decision against hockey coverage. "It's a student thing and would fall under the Contlaaecl on paae 7 
the observer Wednesday, November 10, 1976 

-On Campus Today­
~ecture, "discussion of crisis in international lending
10. Wam 

arrangement" by dr. arthur darasz, former director, european office, international bank for construction and development. lib. lounge. 
I pill symposium, film, literature and painting. opening remarks by dean porter, n.d. "tradition of realism as the imitation of nature" by joseph rushton, n.d.; "contrasting images of realism in 19th century pc1inting" by steven spiro, n d., "the real, the ideal & the pornographic" by john mcconald, university art gallery. 
seminar, "flow over non-streamlined bodies" by dr robert h. page, prof., mechanical & aerospace engineering, rutgers univ. rm. 303, eng. bldg. 
\ \(lplll computer course, "fortran" rm. 115, computer center, math bldg. 
4: IOp1n lecture, "making plans to inform the world's t>conomy" by dr. arthur karast area studies reading rm. 1201 lib. 
4 IOpm seminar, "yersmia enterocolitica enteritis" by dr. philip b. carter, trudeau inst., inc., saranac lake, 
n.y. galvin aud. 

4: lOpIll seminar, "exciplexes: importance of geoflletry and solvation" by dr. e.a. chandross, bell laboratories, murray hill, n.j. 123 nieuwland science hall. 
S 1Spm mass, for all fasters, walsh chapel. everyone welcome. 
1> IOpm dinner, united way banquet, st. mary's dining hall. 
7pm symposium, realism and the arts, "reality and the film image" by miles coiner, n.d.; "realism and recent american writing" by ronald weber, n.d.; "realism in american painting: 306 years of information pictures" by thomas fern, n.d., and "successive realities" by marjorie kinsey, n.d. univ. gallery · 
7pm lecture, "careers in government, in public service and public administration" by dr. john melssen, district manager, social security administration, south bend, and roger beesley, indiana state personnel division. rm. 122 hayes-healy. 
7:JOpm lecture, emil t. hofman on "academic integrity," fisher basement 
7<W & 10pm film, "thieves like us" eng. aud. $1 
7: lO & 10pm film, "holiday" at carroll hall $1 
8:15pm 8:15pm 
midnight 

concert, yuval piano trio from israel. lib aud. $1 
concert, thomas kirch knabenchar, leipzig, e. germany (first american tour) sacred heart church. tickets: $4 general, $2.50 smc/nd students 
album hour, presents kansas and their new album, "left overture," on wsnd 640 am 
Placement bureau· offers workshop 
The Placement Bureau has 
announced the last of a series of 
four workshops on career choices. 
"Careers in Government . Public Service and Public Administra· tion." is scheduled for Wednesday, Nov. 10. at 7 p.m. in Room 122 Hayes · Healy. Many of the posters announcing the workshop indicate the date as Nov. 17. A spokesperson for the placement bureau stated that this information 
is incorrect and emphasized Nov. 10 as the correct date. 
Speakers for the final workshop will include John Melssen from the Social Security Administration in South Bend and Roger Bessley 
· S
from the Indtana tate Personnel Divison in Indianapolis. 
The workshops are sponsored by the Notre Dame Placement Bureau, the St. Mary's Career Development Centerand.the St.Mary's Business 
Club. · · · ·. · ·, •·. ' , ·, ' 

*The Observer 
Night Editor: Joe Bauer 

Asst. Night Editor: Frank Kebe Editorial Layout: John Murphy Features Layout: W.S. Nichols Sports Layout: Ray O'Brien 
Typists:  MeiCeleste,  Joan  
Martel, Anne  Giere, Martha  
Fanning  

Early Morning Typist: Martha Fanning Day Editor: Joe Gill 
I ~opy Reader: Pat Cole \,f>hotographer: Joe Burns ) 
llw Ofht'nt•r 1' publl'twd Monday through I ml.ty <~nd wt>t>klv dunng
tht> 'umnwr '><''>'!On. PX<Ppt dunng tht· Pxam and vacat1on pPnud'> ThP Ob,Prwr I'> pubil,hPd by '>tudt>nts of tht> Un1vt>rs1tv ot NotrE' DamP and St Mary·~ CoiiPgP Subscnptlons
mdy bt' purcha<>t>d for $20 pPr yPar 
($10 w·r sPmPstPr) from ThP ObsPr­ver, Hox Q, Notrt> DamP, lnd1ana 46~56 St;>wnd cla~s po~tag<> paid, NotrP DamP, Indiana 465~6 
ThP ObsPrver is a mPmbPr of the Assouated PrPss All rPproduct1on . nghts arE' rpservpd ... 

By popular demand 


Keenan Revue to repeat 
by Pete Newell Staff Reporter 

The New Keenan Revue, which took place last Saturday, will be presented again on Friday, Nov. 12 at 8:30p.m. 
According to Keenan Hall Rector Fr. Richard Conyers, there are a variety of reasons for the second show. "First of all. many people within the hall missed the show because of the formals, the Mid· west Blues Festival and other evcn.t~ that took place last week­end. 
Conyers cited "popular de­mand" as another factor. "Many people came up to me this week and said,'we're sorry we missed the show,' or something of that na­ture." The second show will give the residents of Keenan and those others who were unable to attend another chance to witness a pro­duction with "much class and techni~al smoothness" according to Conyers. 
Keenan Hall also received a letter from the Dean of the Fresh· many Year of Studies Emil T. 
Hofman. In the letter, Hofman thanked the performers for "one of the most enjoyable evenings I've spent in my years at Notre Dame." 
student ingenuity and initiative take over." Finally, Hofman thanked Keenan Hall for the hospi­tality he and his wife received at the successful party which followed the revue. 
As a result of the positive response, the Keenan Hall Council asked the cast and stage ere"' members if they would put on the revue again. "Considering the large amount of time required to put on the show," Conyers stated, "we decided that it would be up to the members of the cast and crew to decide whether or not the show would be performed again. We also required that it be a unani· mous decision." Each member of the cast and stage crew voted for a second performance. 
According to Publicity Director Erin Dwyer, "approximately 900 to 1,000 people attended the first performance of the semi-formal revue." He added, "we're a little concerned that there won't be as much support as last week. However, I do believe the word has gotten aroun~ that this is a quality, class performance so there should be a large audience on hand." 
Both Conyers and Dwyer com­mended directors Tom Lenz and Rick Thomas, technical director, 
Bob Zajac and especially the performers and stage hands who worked on the show. The second performance of the First Annual New Keenan Revue will take place at Washington Hall on Friday, Nov. 12 at 8:30p.m. 
WCitai11 blllldill 
129 north michigan 234-1431 
downtown south bend· ,across from the bi~ hole 
Thursday, November 11th THE NOTRE DAME JAZZ COM 80 
This weekend, Nov 12 and 13, The Old Time Black Strino Band 
Martin Bogan and The Armstrongs 
ednesday is Ladies INi ht All Ladies Drinks half price 
He also congratulated the members ~~=>-=--~~~~~~=~~~~~~~~~~~~~::~~~§
of Keenan ''for showing the rest of the campus what can be done when 
Look twice at CLUB ORGANIZERS and all others wanting course booklet \ 
to sponsor films for the Spring 1976 -1977 
All 300-. 400-, and 500-level 
semester, applications are availabfe in the 
courses in the Department of English are checkmarked courses 
Student Union office,'2nd floor LaFortune
and students must register fo~ them as they have in the past, 
and are due by November 19, 1976.
according to Donald Sniegowski, director of undergraduate studies in the English department. 
An error in the spring 1977 course description booklet for the English department indicated that some courses were not check· marked due to a printing mistake. 
Therefore, by seeing the approp· riate departmeptal representative, Starring Keith Carradine & Shelley Duvall 
students may register for courses in the department. Seniors should 

7:30 & 10:00 Wednesday Nov. 10. 
go to the LaFortune Student Center ~ 
on Thursday. Nov. 11, juniors on Friday, Nov. 12 and sophomores to 
the ACC on Wednesday, Nov. 17. 
L1 
The Prouram of 
thelear isn•t on 
T'~ 
It"s in the .lirforce ROT(:. 
Find out about the two and four­year Air Force ROTC programs today. They both get you an Air Force commission, an excellent starting salary, challenging work, responsibility, promotions, and a secure future with a modern ser­
vice. 
Air Force ROTC also prepares you for leaderbhip positions ahead. Positions such as aircrew memu•,r . . . missile launch of­ficers . . . mr.thematicians ... engineers ... and ·research and development scientists.. 
Find out today about the benefits of the Air Force ROTC program. It's a great way to serve your country and to help pay for your college education. 
For Information, Contact 
Capt. Davis 
283-6635 

Air Force ROTC Gateway to a ·.of Life· 

ENG AUQ ~ Admission $1.00 
.................................. 

'Tearaf'll'r 'car.I ~cmc~tcr ·after n ~t·mt·~tcr. tlw ('olk•J,.!t'\ la~ft•r 
fnun Fidelit\ l ·nion I.itt.· lia" het•n tlw nh.,, i.H.'l'l'jlh.'tl. IHO"if popular plan on 

rampu"it'" all John Wahman en cr.\mcrira. 
Agent 


Find out "In. 
Call tlw Fiddit\ l'nion ( 'olll'J..!l'\]a"iter ~·idd A"'odatc 


d m~our area: 
915 E. Cedar South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 
.~:. 
~ 
( ( ;lk·~l~\ b'ltl'l' 


Diane Long
Agert 

• • ~ • .1o ot. 6 .. .I A .. • • • • A • I •• .# • ol I I I I of I I I .f I I • I • • • ·, .. -•• • 
--~---­
The Yuval Trio will make a concert appearance tonight at 8:15 pm in the Library Auditorium. 



Yuval Trio to perform 


The University of Notre Dame Concerts announces teh appear­ance from Israel the interna­tionally acclaimed Yuval Trio on Wednesday. Nov. 10. at 8: IS 
p.m. in the library auditorium. The Yuval Trio was first organized in 1968 and in 1971 they made their first American tour. All three of the members of the Yuval Trio were born ;n IsraeL Two of them received da major portion of their education in the United States at Julliard School of Music in New York 
City. Two of them have taught at American colleges, two of them are Concertmaster and principal Cellist of teh Israel Philharmonic, all three teach in Israel when they are not con­certinzeing. 
Their program at Notre Dame includes two of the great piano trios of the chamber music world: that of Maurice Ravel in A minor. and the Trio in B flat major by Franz Schubert. Also on the program is a contempo­rary Trio in Two Movements by Leon Kirchner. 
This program replaces the previously announced program of the Thomas Kirche Knaben­cher, from Leipsig. East Ger­many. / 

Wednesday, November 10, 197& 
the observer 

SLC discusses cable television, town meeting, new committees 
byJoeGm StaH Reporter 

The acceptance of a cable televi­sion proposal that would provide educational as well as entertain­ment benefits, and the establish­ment of a town meeting for off-campus students were dis­cussed at the Student Life Council (SLC) meeting yesterday. 
The proposal, which would allow television to handle overflows of class sessions in adjoining rooms, enable the campus to "receive lectures and educational material from other college campuses,'·' provide a feasible way of displaying popular classes for purposes of auditing from one's room, and continue the development of Uni­versity studies in the field of Communication Arts and broad­casting was sent back to the Council for further study. The apporximate cost of such a system is between $750,000 and 1.000,000. 
The town meeting will be held Nov. 16at the firehouse, located at 801 Notre Dame Avenue, according to off-campus committee chairman John Steinham. "Members of the police force will speak about burg­laries and the prevention of 
crime." Steinham said. In addi-..~·~~·~~~ 
tion, information billboards will be set up at strategic locations · South Bend. 
In presenting the television pro­posal, Student Body President Mike Gassman commented on the 
25¢ 

~BEERS 

AT LOUIES MON--THURS 
744 N.D. AVE. 

pool-pinba11-pi_zza 
educational benefits that would be obtained, but also noted that students would be required to pay $20 to $30 each for the installment and maintenance of the system. Pete Haley, campus life committee chairman, however, questioned whether or not the money could be put to better use, asking. "How valuable is it for a million dollars, considering that one·could build a whole new student center for this amount?" 
Fr. James L. Shilts, assistant professor of physics and SLC committee member, agreed, saying that ''the overall cost is stagger­ing." and Dean of Students James Roemer said that he "would like to know a little bit more about it." The SLC agreed to study the proposal in greater depth. 
Haley announced the establish­ment of several ad hoc committees. 
The Club Sports Committee will study the intramural athletic pro­grams. particularly in the area of funding problems. The Social Space Committee will explore "opportunities where students and faculty have a common room where they can 'socialize," and the possi­bility of "using the North Dining Hall for activities.'' 
\ ~· :....~ -. I! , n r . /
., SH­



"One of the 
LUSitllla COSIIOPOLIIAII •

Year's Best" PG 
LEE MARVIN AN[I ROGER MOORE 
·, ·a-"trrl-·--,AT-lilEW. 
Now Showing ~ .!11.,~~-; ;", ~ : . ·-~« : AT 6 :50 9 :20 P.M. BARBARA PARKINS :iAN HOLM-RENE KOLuiEHOFF 
The Memorial Library Commit­tee will try and establish a common space to socialize in the Library. "The second floor lobby has be­come too disruptive and noisy for many students," Haley said. A Freedom of Speech Committee will explore underlying feelings of hos­tilities that are present on campus and haven't been recognized, and the "Committee to delineate re­sponsibility" will study ways to prevent the overlapping of respon­sibilities and also inform students who have ideas where to go with them and how to initiate their acceptance. 
The Hali Fellows Committee will continue its work. 
Brother Just Paczcsny prcsl·ntcd a proposal from the Rules and Regulations Committee which would allow the SLC to review the prepare reports of various sen·iccs on campus every five years. The 
proposal will  be  voted  on  during  
the next meeting.  
Sallv  Duffv,  chairman  of  the  

above-committee announced the facult\· nominations for the Judil·ial Board. Norman Haaser. Sheila Brennan. Thomas Fen and William Richardson were all accepted unaninmously. 
.... ~ LJ ... , ._ I 
. 

-·rm· 
SAVE WITH THESE MO EY SAVING~Ifffp~~ 






Arby's® 

MICHl ANA 
~ ~ 

U.S. 31 N (near N. Village Mall, Roseland 
1702 S. Michigan, South Bend, Ind. 
. 1807 Lincolnway East, South bend, Ind. 
r(J!!;-~Jl. 

710 W. McKinley, ~~ Mishawaka, Ind. 
~ 

Get 2 SUPER Arby'~ 
REGULAR $1 19 3uy one ~ get the second for 
69c 

. ~im1t 2 per COUPON Coupon expires Nov. 24th 

Get 2 SUPERArby'~ 
REGULAR $1 19 Buy one ~ get the seL ond for 
69c 
Ltmtt 2 per COUPON Coupon expires Nov. 24th 
~ 



~ 

Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Phones: (219) 283-8661 [NO)



, *The Observer 
(219) 284-5365 [SMC]
anindependentstudentnewspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 

EDITORIAL BOARD Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief The Observer is published by students of the University of 
Notn• Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily Dan Sanchez Managing Editorn·flect the policies of either institution The news is reported Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed.

a-. accurately and as objectively as possible Editonals Gregg Bangs Executive Editor

rPprPsent the opinion of a majority of the Editonal Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their 
Val Zurblis Executive Editor 
Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor.1uthors Column space is available to all members of the Bob Mader Exec. News Editorwmmunity, and letters are encouraged to promote the free 

Maureen Flynn Campus Editor
Pxpre-.sion of varying opinions on campus. 

Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor Business Manager Tom Fronczak 
Don Reimer Copy Editor Advertising Manager Mike Miller Tim 0' Reiley Features Editor Photo Editor Tony Chifari 
Fred Herbst Sports Editor Production Manager Martha L Fanning 
Wednesday, November 10, 1976 
SLF: Soph Lit Folly 
The Sophomore literary Festival may very well be a failure this year as a result of the lack-lustre appeal of its attending speakers. Whether its failure can be forecast or not, it is presently the target of considerable criticism both within and outside of Student Union for its failure to produce prominent writers as guests and its dependence this year on obsure international poets. 
Although the Sophomore literary Festi­val (SLF) is formally part of the Student Union structure, it operates mostly auton­omously from the SU hierarchy. This year, however, SU officials, among them its director Ken Ricci, have argued that the SLF consumes a disproportionate 20 percent of the annual budget in terms of other services offered, considering its limited appeal to students. Since the festival is entirely student-funded, Ricci has said, it should appeal to the varied interests of all students. 
SLF Chairman John 'Santos, however, has answered that the festival is entirely responsible to certain ethical principles: namely, that it should invite and entertain the most talented contemporary poets, novelists and playwrights, regardless of their widespread popularity or obscurity. He believes quite strongly that this years speakers are talented and points out that they are critically celebrated in interna­tional literary circles. The festival is disproportionately funded, he argues, because its revenue is not recovered through monies collected at the door. 
The clash between SU and the SLF has been a traditional one. It is complicated this year by the guest program which is generally perceived as a lack-lustre one, despite Santo's assertion to the contrary. 
The SLF ideally should offer something for everyone, as Ricci contends. It should include such guest speakers with the reknown and stature of Arthur Miller, Kurt Vonnegut~Jr., and Norman Mailer, all of whom have attended in the past. For those more familiar with lesser-known yet criti· cally-acclaimed writers, it should feature writers such as George Luis Borges (who attended last year.) Furthermore, an important function of the festival snould be to introduce the unknown talent who may lack popular exposure but who can nonetheless make a valuable contribution to the festival. 
This year's festival promises only the last. We are willing to believe that these 

writers (mostly poets) are as talented as 
Santos claims but we fear that general 
apathy over the event may cause many 
studentl' to sidestep the festival for the 
Mardi Gras events scheduled elsewhere on 
campus. Considering the awesome cost of 
the festival (about $12,000) and the 
idealism of its goals, the SLF would be 
deemed a failure if there were a poor 
student response. 
In fairness to Santos it should be added 
that he has invited some notable writers to 
attend, but they have either declined or 
have not answered his invitations. It is his 
dedication to securing the attendance of 
these writers that we question. 
As a student-sponsored ~vent, the SLF should at least be sensitive to widespread student interest in well-known authors by attempting a delicate balance bet ween the prominent and the lesser known guests, bet ween authors and poets and even between varied tastes of prose and poetry. Permitting one person to decide the guest list unfairly limits the scope of the festival. We are not saying that the structure of the festival be changed by placing it under the direct control of Student Union or any other body. But we strof\gly urge that the SLF chairman be responsive to the ideas of others and that the committee as a whole assume a-larger role in the decision-
making process. Presently, there are two more speaker selections to be made for the up-coming festival. It is expected that two more obsure writers HortenseCalisher and Lara Riding Jackson will fill them. Those selections, not yet final, should probably not be made before considering the opinions and interests of many students. 
The SLF Chairman, Santos, has told us "It's understandalbe that people don't recognize these names" and "its a sign that we're-not reading contemporary poetry.'' Our reply to this is that there are certainly more characters in the worU arena of writers than obsure poets. H we are not reading their obscure poetry, perhaps we should. But we should also be exposed to the writings and of popular and obsure novelists and playwrights. 
The Sophomore literary Festival is an internationally-respected event and its prestige should not be jeopardized by the individual and alienating preferences of any one person. like the root of the word "festival" suggests, it should be a feast offering something for every palate. 
opinion~~~~~~~~~ 
The Myth of Notre Dame 
_.._._._._.robert jacques 
Pervading Notre Dame is a myth which, like an essence to its object, is the essence of Notre Dame. The essence can be summed up suc­cinctly and precisely in the phrase, "the Catholic, familial communi­
... 

ty. Such a community is of diversified peoples, all acting to­gether in a unified group. The members are friendly, helpful, courteous, loving, considerate, humble, patient, tolerant, warm, hopeful. It provides shelter for the lost and uncertain as well as it provides a base for the bond and aspiring. It offers stimulation for the curious and tranquility for the reflective. It is, in actuality, a small cosmo~;. a world into itself. 
Such is what the myth of Notre Dame is. Such is what Notre Dame is not. 
Behind the facade of the loving, happy family lurks selfish small­mindedness, vicious back-stabbing childish power assertions, and ignorance. 

Consider the administration. It consists of such figures as Price, Director of the dining halls, who plays petty power politics with pig farmers; Roemer, Dean of Stu­dents, who photographs strippers and panty-raiders for future refer­ence, and raids rooms to tear down posters bearing obvious double­entendres; Paczesny, Vice Presi­dent for Student Affairs, who claims "I am student affairs," and states the Scholastic can criticize the administr~tion only as long as it is done in good taste and is humorous (Is the subject of any criticism ever truly humored?); Burtchaell, Provost, who thinks he has 8,000 children and who believ­es that "virtually all universities in Europe and Latin America" repud­iate "certainly all responsibility for the personal growth and integra­tion of the students,'' thus making Notre Dame the only concerned university left; Hesburgh, Presi­dent, ,. ho gets "grim and white­
faced "in the presence of jokes (What when confronted with reali­ties such as starvation, war, and ignorance?). 
These and others are the people who run the loving family in such a pyramidal fashion, stricter than most factories and more status-quo oriented, that the Provost felt moved to observe, "The students are guests." It becomes apparent that amidst the struggles for asser­tiveness and dominance and super­iohty, there can be no time for love and consideration and improve­ment outside of mere lipservice to the ideas. Such is the administra­tion. 

Con~ider .the .students. _Of geographical dt:verstty and upbrm­ging and of superior ability and knowledge, one would expect supe­rior human beings. But quite the contrary is true. What one finds is obnoxious, immature, naive, and socially impotent children running about, crying for a relevant identity. Most feelings are expressed in booze (or grass) which delivers one from the very intensity of the feeling besides creating innumera­ble pot-bellied disgraces to the species. The rest are poetically expressed in writing on tables, chairs, and bathroom walls. 
Knowledge is something regurgi­tated on paper; understanding is an unnecessary superfluity. Intel­lectual growth and gain are measur ed in grades; these grades are so lusted after by some that all else, even life itself, is sacrificed to them. Means become ends; growth is forgotten about. 
Saddest of all is the uninquisitive nature of the students. The opportunity to rigorously question all aspects of life and to seek out the truth is so neglected that the opportunity has all but vanished. Such a seeker is too often viewed as a skeptic, an agnostic, a cynic, if not an antichrist; these few people are forced to hide so as to protect their sensitivity. So well imbibed is the myth of Notre Dame that-not only is it not questioned, but it is enhanced and spread by these complacent sub-humans. Thus the myth perpetuates itself. Such are the students. . 
Consider the faculty. The members are intelligent, well versed, and dedicated to their studies and students. Yet they are not without fault. The promised brilliance is too often conspicuously missing in the classroom. Too often the difference between good and excellent appears during the semester. The responsibility lies with the size of the classes, the students, and the professors. All share the guilt. 
Change is needed. Yet most of the faculty cowers beneath the tyranny of the administration; 
even collectively. the Faculty Sen­ate is a mere shadow of a body. Apparently for fear of job, advance­ment, and treatment, individuals and groups refuse to stand up for, what they believe. Such a position as they hold is unenviable, but equally unsatisfactory. Knowing that change won't come from above, it must begin here. Revolution is neither imminent nor eminent, but change is needed. It must start with the wise and ma"\ure. Such is the faculty. 
The Notre Dame of myth and the Notre Dame of reality can thus be seen to be quite different if not mutually exclusive of one another. Although most will agree that the one is more desirable than the other, even that is not of para­mount concern. Rather, it is one of when the University will cease being a hypocrite; being one thing and claiming to be another. If Notre Dame is ever to be a ;ommunity of loving, considerate people in pursuit of the truth, the truth of itself must first be known. Then it must choose -either to accept itself for what it now is or to change to equal or excede the lofty myth. 
Regardless, the dissemblence must end. I ask, when will the fraudulence and deception perpet­uated by the members of Notre Dame cease? 
Or in my asking am I asking too 
much? 


t 

'Thanks' 
Dear Editor: In last Thursday's Observer (Oct. 
28) there was some talk of review­
ing  the  infirmary  in  respect  to  
reform.  I  believe  Sr.  Marion  
Ruidl's  points  on  visitation  are  

sound in nature and protect the students, both those in and out of the infirmary. In regard to medical excuses from class, it appears as though the inf!!:mary has little control over the issue. 
Respecting Mike Gassman's con­cern for progressive reform, I also favor giving credit when and where it's due. Please allow me to relate a timely event. 
Recently, I visited the campus infirmary for a couple of days, ' thanks" to a viral infection. In consideration of those warm, friendly, and helpful employees I came in contact with, not only is it a nice place to visit, but you would alm)st be tempted to live there! 
Tlmo!by Koch 

~~--·~----~---~--~-----­
My major consideration is to explore, through painting, .'\ field of phenomena, 
founc' expressed in and through nature, 
but, not limited to nature. 
Nature as a manifestation; 
Nature as a cosmic photograph; 
Nature as a graph photographed 
of something not visible made concrete, 
and, at the same time: 
elusive and mysterious. 
The photograph acts as a benevolent 
screen 
to look through 
bringing me to a space of feeling 
permitting me for a moment 
the inhalation ;md the exhalation of 
poetry's air. 
-Joseph Raffael 

Tacky'n Cheap 

by Anna Monardo 

fhe Ritz 
Directed by: Richard Lester 
Starring: Jack Weston, Kaye Ballard, 
Jerry Stiller 
The Ritz begins poignantly and dramati­cally with a big Italian Family holding vigil at the death bed of their sick Papa. With his last bit of energy, Papa summons his loved ones to his side; the rosary beads are dropped and the family rushes to the old man only to hear his dying words, "Kill Procol. Kill Procol." the husband of Papa's only daughter, Vivian. So Papa's ~nly son, Carmine, Vespucci (his name indicative of all the underworld tendencies in his character), assumes responsibility for eliminating Procol, the husband of Papa's only daughter, Vivian. 
. At t~is point .the movie makes a huge dtgresswn; nothmg after this makes much sense. But if you like to laugh, and are not too selective about the things which humor you, The Ritz may even prove tolerable. 
The movie is disappointing, even in its title. The Ritz is not about the goings-on at an elegant high-rise hotel. In this case, the Ritz is an exclusive men's bathhouse, exclusive in that all the guests are gay. Procol goes to the Ritz to remain anono­mously secluded from his brother's hit men. 
Upon registering, Procol (Jack Weston) is unaware of the contingencies of the place; he learns fast, however. A little guy with a briefcase, Claude the Chubby Chaser, quickly tries luring Procol with candy bars thrown through the transom and eclairs served by candlelight. 
A lot of people chase Procol, but Chubby Chaser is the only one who wants the real Procol. The rest pursue him because of mistaken identity. There is Brick, the private detective, who becomes Procol's co-conspirator, despite the fact that he has been hired by Vespucci to spy on Procol. Poor Brick--a handsome young man whose voice never made it past adolescence-he is funny but that voice just grinds the nerves. 
The staff of the Ritz includes Googie (Rita Moreno), singer, dancer, bombshell in search of a career (Why does she work in a gay bath house?) who believes that Procol is the great producer who will make her famous. 
The action is a bizarre conglomeration of chase scenes through the steam bath, 1 escapes down the laundry chute, and escapades in the swimming pool. The slapstick reacHes a climax at the end when Vespucci (Jerry Stiller) registers as a guest. He walks around with a pistol strapped to his chest, trying unconspicu­ously to kill his brother-in-law. To top it off, Vivian (Kay Ballard), arrives in disguise to save her husband. 
After everyone who possibly can has gotten involved in the mess, there is a confrontation. The scoop comes out: Vespucci, in fact, owns the bathhouse. He is trying to set Procol up in "an unnatural act with one of the fruitcakes in this place'' so that his murder of Procol, which was meant to keep Procol out of the family's garbage business, could be justified as a "delitto di passione"--a crime of passion meant to protect Vivian. It doesn't work; Procol emerges victorious, returns to Cleveland with his wife, and life at the Ritz goes back to normal... 
And that just about sums it up. The movie is redeemed a bit by some of the acting--KayeBallard and Jack Weston are true comedians. All that needs to be said now is that The Ritz is· technically a rather cheap film and it~> subject matter, well, that's cheap too and a little tacky as well,• 
·---~---~---------~--~----~--~---~~---~---., 
Wednesday, November 10, 1976 
the observer 
5 







Aspect of Realism 
Three years ago the directors of the Art Gallery in O'Shaughnessy Hall decided to put together an art show based on a specific theme: the various aspects of Realism with an emphasis on Photographic Realism and its use in contemporary art. The directors' work, planning and coordi­nating have lead to a surprising and intriguing show that opened this week titled Aspects of Realism. 
Photographic Realism, which is incor­porated into many works in the collection, deals with the tendency in art to paint or draw things as they are and as they appear in photographs. 
The works in the show take on many attitudes. but are unified by the idea of painting with images that are either remotely or directly based on a specific photograph. The photographic images are used as stepping stones to achieve a great degree of intimacy and vitality in the works. 
The artists translate the images into acrylic on canvas, watercolor and graphite on paper, or wooden sculpture. Also notable is the use of the airbrush, an instrument that sprays a fine mist of paint over the canvas. This technique, used extensively in the show, softens the edges and suggests a more photographic surface quality. 
The show explores the depth and variety of attitudes within the field of Realism Each artist, by using the photograph as a 
by Maureen Sajbel 
tool, arrives at an individulil interpretation of the image and its essential nature. 
Joseph Raffael, author of the poem above, paints in an attitude peripherally related to Realism that incorporates a light, impressionistic quality, as in his Muir 
Creek D. He paints the reflections in the 
ripples of water to look like an intricate 
stained glass window. 
Mark Christian Wethli's realism in the work Paris is stated with an air of stark desolation. The picture is done in soft tones of grey, evoking a loneliness felt in an empty room during the late afternoon. 
The hard-boiled realism of Ben Schonzeit is shown dramatically in But­tons, a photographic blow-up-like painting. 
Another Schonzeit painting, Gold Mine. is technically flawless in reproducing the original photograph on a monumental scale. 
Many of these artists are young and their work represents what has been going on in the field of Realism withing the last eight years. Their works are fresh, technically outstanding, and startling at times because of their absolute accuracy. 
The art gallery is located in O'Shaugh­nessy Hall at Notre Dame. No admission is 
charged  and  the  gallery  is  open  on  
weekdays from 10 a.m.  to 4:45-p.m ..  on  
weekends from 1 p.m.  to 5 p.m.  and  on  

Thursday nights from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. The· Aspects of Realism show, which opened November 7, will continue until Janu.try 2. 
) 
' 


Trashy Do'ins 
' 

by David O'Keefe 

Larrie Directed by Brian DePalma Stars: Sissie Spacek, Piper Laurie, William Katt, AmJ Irving 
The opening should have been a 
warning. In it we meet Carrie White. a 
seemingly innocent introvert who j, de­
tested and abu!-.ed by her adolescent pl'l'r!o,. 
While taking a shower after g\'m cia,~. !o,hl' 
begins to menstruate. Obvio~sl\' unaware 
of what is happening to her. sh~ becomes 
hysterical and screams to her clas!'.matc~ 
for help. They respond by pelting her with 
tampons. chanting and jeering. until she 
collapses, sobbing uncontrollably. in the 
corner of the shower. 
As the film progresses. we discover 
more about Carrie. Her sexual ignorance is 
only one manifestation of the effect that 
her mother, a psychotic religious zealot. 
has on her. When the charming Mrs . 
Whit~ hears of her daughter's frightening 
expenence at school. she locks Carrie up in 
a closet to beg God's forgiveness for the 
sins that have led him to visit her with the 
curse' of blood. 
But Carrie is far from being the 
defenseless child she appears to be. for she 
possesses the power of telekinesis, the 
ability to energize inanimate obJects and 
make them perform her will. As she 
develops this power, she graduates from 
the simpler tricks to more involved and 
impressive feats that will come in handy 
later. · 
Her t,'rmentors are punished for treating her as cruelly as they did, which only makes them more resentful of her. In an inspired bit of adolescent humanity. they persuade the handsome star athlete to asi her to the Senior Prom so that they may manipulate her election as Queen only to humiliate her at her moment of glory. All goes smoothly for the dear things and their little prank is a tremendous success: Carrie is basking. disbelieving, in the spotlight onstage when she is deluged by a bucket of pig's blood from above. 
There is more. including the predictable telekenetic slaughter that follows which wipes out the entire senior class and half the faculty of Bates High School, but it is all just as depraved and senseless as the rest. 
What it all adds up to is one of the most repulsive pieces of bloody fi.lth to splatter is guts on the screen in a long time. It is a confused and meaningless film whose feeble implicit claims-to some sort of allegorical profundity are drowned in a flood of blood and incinerated in fiery explosions. Its excesses leave the audience shocked and emotionally numb. save the anger that arises out of having spent time and money on such rot. 
Cll!rie has one lucid moment, at the prom. when Carrie's date begins to react to her honestly and emotionally. Their waltz is as tender and poignant a~ any romantil· moment in film, but in the end ·it is but a diamond under a dunghill, buried and forgotten. There are also some truly fine perf~rmances by a great screen vet (Piper Laur1e as Mrs. White}. a brilliant new­comer (William Katt as Carrie's date). and a young actress whose considerable talents ha.ve.been consistently stifled by poor roles (Stsst.e Spacek as Carrie). Spacek is t.he emotwnless mute once again. a role she handled so very well in the otherwise menial Badlands. She deserves much more than this film offers. 
Will success spoil Brian DePalma? The 
!ur~ . is ~ti!l out o~ this powerfully mdJVtduahsttc young d1rector. The thing that . makes Carrie so disconcerting is the 
knowledge that DePalma can do so much better, as was most recently evidenced by his masterful Obsession. Hopefully, he w,ll be able to wash his hands of this filthy deed and go on to bigger and inevitably better things. · the observer Wednesday, November 10, 197& 


*********** *********************** 

: THE SENIOR BAR ROLLS IN A TIDE OF SPECIALS !!! ~ 
~ * 
~ Wednesday TA~A?~~K Thursday * ~ ~ live Disco Music All Night Live Disco Music Again! * 
~~ ··~n Beers $.25 10 -11 Post Sugar Bowl Films Special * 
• * 
tc Drink Specials 9 -1 ~ Beers $.25 10 -12 ~ 
: Firecracker $.50 FRIDAY HAPPY HouR 4-s Drink Specials 9 • 1 ~ ~ S O Beers 5 for $1 * 
~ Food pecials 1 -11 Mixe~ Drinks $.so H · $ o * 
" urr~canes .5 ~ 
~ Hot Dogs $.25 FOOD SALES OPEN AGAIN * 
* 




/lllusic department to celebrate its new home in Crowley Hall 
The· University will dedicate its building; her brother, John B. William Cerny, chairman of the 1cw home for the Department of Caron, a Notre Dame alumnus Department of Music; Patricia \1usic--Patrick F. Crowley Hall--on and trustee whose family is under-Crowley and John Caron. Tours 'lov. 12-13. writing the cost of converting the conducted by departmental faculty 
Among those present will be former Hoynes Hall to use by the will follow the program. ;>atricia Caron CJ'tlwley of Chicago, Music Department, and Jerome J. A dedication Mass will be cele­vidow of the 1933 Notre Dame Crowley, a brother of Patrick who is brated Nov. 13 at 9 a.m. in Crowley dum nus memorialized bv the also an alumnus and trustee of the Hall, concelebrated by Father 
University, as well as chairman of Hesburgh with clerical officers of
Parietal the board of South Bend's O'Brien the University and clerical faculty 
Corporation. of the department. The homily will
opinions The University's trustees, on be preached by Msgr. John J. 
campus for their annual fall meet-Egan, director of the Center fl,r
to be scanned ing, will participate in the two-day Pastoral and Social Ministry at 
by Denisa Lynk program. which begins with a Notre Dame. 
Staff Reporter dinner Nov. I2 in the Center for The renovation of Hoynes, built 
Continuing Education. Rev. James in 1890, has enabled the Music 
T. Burtchaell, C. S.C., University Department, which moved this fall, The St. Mar~,·., Parietal Commit-provost. will be the master of to more than triple its space. ·LT met in an organizational meet­ceremonies at a subsequent dedica-Included in the 13.000 square feet ng la~t night forming the Central tion program in Crowley Hall of Crowley Hall of Music are a 
~ 'ornmittcc. The Central Commit­featuring Notre Dame's Glee Club sorely needed choral and instru­et· l'Onsi'>l'> of Diane Smitz. Chair­and its Chorale. as well as several mental rehearsal room, which can nan: and Sherr~· Antonini, Peggy student ensemble performances. also serve as a large lecture hall t{odgcrs, and Cathy Harahan. Speaking will be Edmund A. and a student recital area. The new !'here arc three sub-committees: Stephan, chairman of the Univer-facility also contains 12 teaching i>uhlic Relation'>. which is headed sitv·s Board of Trustees; Rev. studios, 20 practice rooms, two 1\' Sandv Parnell and Suzv Plavbac; Th-eodore M. Hesburgh. C.S.C.. small classrooms. and an adminis­{.escarch. headed bv Maria-Lisa University President; Professor trative area. vtagnanclli and Jerri Plumb; and 
he Survey Committee. headed by Linda Schultz. Donna Noonan, Kt·ll~· Doni~· and Angela Andrews. 
Srnitt. '>tated. "The committee's ~·ork will be time .consuming and he data will have to be compiled by .'hristma.,. We must have the ·epmt tini.,hed by .Ianuary so that Mr. Duggan will have a chance to ,tT it." She noted that the Board of Kegcnh will meet again in April _ and that thev should receive the report by March. 
Srnitt spoke of how the same >arit•tals propo~al was defeated in lJ7J. She indicated the survey will hat will be passed around to .tudcnts is the most important actor. The survey will be passed mlllnd and collected bv R.A. 's. In 
l)7J. 94% of the stud~nts were in a\ or of the proposal. but only 60% 1f the students responded. "This Tar we have to aim for 75",;, or 1igher. .. Smitz stated. 
Cindy Callahan. student gov­rnrnent liason said "not all girls :ant these parietals. and some ave good argu mcnts as to why. Ve have to consider if there are 
·nough and what can be done for 
hem. They arc the most impor­
ant. 
Letters will be sent to parents, lumni and the faculty and admin­.;tration. but there would be prcs­UI c on the students. 
Smitz emphasized that letters rom the students. even group etters would be a great help. and ,·ould be "positive proof of the 
"Ordinary diamonds are cut with 58 facets. The unique "144" is cut with 144 facets, makin[l it the world's most
tudcnts' concern." 

scintillatinD diamond. Yet it costs the same. Come in and see
"Everyone should aim at having 

our maCJnificent selection of "144" diamonds. We'll show you 
how you can have the world's most brilliant diamond for the 
same price as an ordinary diamond.
·ver:.·thing under eontrol and ready 
o go by next week." Smitz .trc.,sed. She also stated that "the 

@ 
MEMBER AMERICAN GEM. 
esponsc from the other survey was 

Joor. Evcrvonc came to talk at the 
nt•eting. btit didn't take the time to 
Our 50th Year 
ill out the letter. If the students 

OUiNwluLf -...]lltu·Jus.:-Je14.tlr1J
hm't respond and are apathetic, 
Convenient Credit r...m• 
234 -2919 

dw bother. it's not worth it." 
SMC vaccination 
"Nov. 10 is the date that the swine vaccination will be admin­istered at the St. Mary's Club­house," according to Dr. Kath­leen Rice. Rice, dean of student affairs at St. Mary's, stated, "The St. Joseph County Board 'Jf Health informed us that there would be enough vaccine avail­able for St. Mary's." 
Previously the date had been changed due to a shortage in the vaccine and had been set back for Dee. 1. "There will now be a limited vaccine for St. Mary's students and the staff and their families,'' Rit-e .said. 
The St. Joseph County Board of Health will administer the vaccine on Nov. 10 for all St. Mary's students 18 years old or older. The time will be 10:00 
a.m. to 1:00 p.m. Any Notre Dame student will be allowed to receive the vaccination, but Rice stressed this may have to be limited due to the small amount of vaccination available to St. Mary's College. Registration forms have already been distri­buted to St. Mary's students. Notre Dame students can re­ceive forms at the clubhouse today. 




Introducing eCVeli! 

4 pounds of pizza pleasure-che,eses and sausages. pepperoni and fresh mushrooms. green peppers· and onions. tomatoes and olives and pineapple-even shrimp. and more. 

~ ' Now serving Hot Dogs, Fresh Hot Popcorn and all snacks Hot Dogs $.25 10 -12 
~************************************************** 
.---------------­
Wednesday, November 10, 1976 
the observer 


Action 

Irish's Hunter, Restic rank high 
•


1n NCAA statistic department
Express 

~--------------------------­

AP -Purdue tailback Scott Dierking, who gained 162 yards and two touchdowns in last week's Q. It's been over a week and I'm still confused about. 
16-14 upset of Michigan, is sixth in the time change. What's the story? 

the nation in scoring, seventh in rushing and eighth in all-purpose running in this week's NCAA A. Notre Dame is in one of several counties that do not football statistics. 
observe the time change. When we first came in Dierking, named Associated August, we were on Central time. the same as Chicago. 
Press Big Ten back of the week,Now, since the country has changed for Day Light has averaged 124.4 yards perSavings Time, Notre Dame is on Eastern Standard game. Including rushing and passTime and is the same as New York and Michigan. 
recieving, he has aver;iged 134.9 yards per game. He also has 
Q. When is the next Quickie running? 
J. GeUs band 
A. The Quickie will be running on Dec. 3. Next weekend is the Armorv Dance, the week after is 

at Kalamazoo 
Homecoming. and the. week after is Thanksgiving 

The J. Geils Band, ·'the bad boys Break. 
from Boston·'', will return to the 
Midwest next week for a Friday, 
Nov. 19 concert at Wings Stadium Q. What is the story on the Homecoming Ticket 
in Kalamazoo. The James GangPackage Sale? Are there any tickets available? 
will open the show. Tickets for the Geils--James 
A. The Honwcoming packages, 2 G.A. tickets to the 

Gang concert are now on sale Miami game and a couples ticket to the Homecoming 
locally at the River City Review Dance. did not sell out. To allow for the fastest 
ticket outlets: Just for the Record distribution of all the tickets, the remaining packages 
(100 Center), Boogie Records (Col­were broken up. Check the ACC for both the Doobie 
lege Square). Suspended Chord Brothers and Football tickets. Also, Homecoming 
(Eikart). Record Joint (Niles) and Dance Tickets will be sold beginning the week of Nov. 8 
Fanta-C Records (Benton Harbor). at the tkket office and the following week at the dining 
-All tickets are general admission. halls. 
1\ny questions? Drop them off at the OMBUDSMAN 
NOTICES
OFFICE in the La Fortune Student Center or call us at 283· 7638. 
Accurate Fast Typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. Hours: 8 am to 8 pm 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20 to 150. 1 day wait. 1 Percent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune



ND lobby supports­
basement M-Fll :15-12:15 
Tickets tor the J. Geils band and James Gang Concert Friday Nov. 19

lower drinking age at Kalamazoo's W in<Js Stadium are now on sale at the River City Review 
by Michael Lewis Staff Reporter 
Lobbyists from Notre Dame will soon be contacting Indiana state legislators to work for passage of a bill lowering the drinking age to 19, according to Buzz Reynolds, assis­tant head of the Notre Dame stud_ent lobby. 
The lobbyists will be sending letters to all legislators. The letters will include facts, statistics and argl\ments supporting the bill. 
Speaking of this year's effort, Reynolds said, "We're optimistic ­we have to be." 
''There are many legislative hurdles to overcome, but hopefully, with a little more preparation, better arguments and the new makeup of the legislature, some­thing can be done," he added. 
Last year, the lobby killed the bill because they did not have the necessary votes. This kept the bill alive for the January session of the General Assembly, and the lobby­ists have been working all summer in the hope of receiving a favorable vote in the January session. 
Reynolds said the lobbyists will be working for a "large, bipartisan sponsorship" for this year's bill. Reynolds also said that the Notre Dame lobby will join forces with the Indiana Student Association and many other student leaders from all over the state. 

The arguments for passage of the bill deal with the inconsistency of Indiana law and conflicts with Indiana's border states. 
Concerning the inconsistency. Reynolds said, "In Indiana a 19 year old can legally vote, pay taxes, marry, choose a profession, enter the armed services, possess a firearm. be held responsible for debts, make wills, be tried in a civil or criminal court and sentenced to a penitentiary, hold office, own a corporation and hold a liquor license. 
"In Indiana a 19 year old can do everything but take a drink." 
Additionally, Michigan, Illinois and Ohio all have lower legal drinking ages than Indiana. Of course, many Indiana youths travel to these states to purchase liquor. 
Notre Dame lobbyists will be requesting the help of some stu­dents as Thanksgiving break nears. 
At that time, all students who reside in Indiana will receive a letter asking them to contact their legislator in an attempt to gain early support for the bill. 
The letter will include the legis­lator's name, how to reach him, and all the information he should know about lowering the drinking age to 19. 
Call 1354 or 4-4820
WSND aired with Trustees 
Continued from page 1 jurisdiction of student affairs. I am the license-holder, but that's just a technical thing," he said. Joyce stated it was Paczesny's decision. 
Burtchaell, whom Fanuele has accused of making the final deci­sion to stop hockey coverage, also refused to comment. 
Meeting with Trustees 
The situation will probably be discussed at a meeting of student media officials with members of the University Board of Trustees this Saturday, Nov. 13, according to Mary Ellen Keenan, WSND news director. 
The meeting, which was arranged at the beginning of the semester before the WSND contro­versy began, will, cover several topics, including the student inedia "as an educational and profession­al vehicle." It would be under this heading that the issue would arise. 

"We won 't make any sugges­tions," Keena:n said, "We just want to make them aware of the situation. It is a concern all three (student media) share. It is not a personal gripe. It affects all of us," she stated. 
Trustees will meet with Keenan, Tom O'Neil, Observer editor-in­chief, and John Phelan, Scholastic editor. They ~ill include John Schneider, president of CBS, Alfred C. Stepan, Jr., Chairman of the Board and Jane C. Pfeifer, vice-president of communication, of IBM. 
''The main thing we would like to come out of this," Keenan conclu­ded, "is that the Trustees are a\Yare ~f the 'situation." . 
scored 11 touchdowns for 66 points, Notre Dame's Joe Restic is 18th 
an average of 9.4. 
in the nation in punting, with 45 Notre Dame's AI Hunter is lith punts for a 42.5-yard average.
in scoring at 8.2 points per game, As a team. Ball State is seventh 
and Ball State's Art Yaroch is 14th in the nation in scoring defense at 7. 7. 
10.8, Fourth in punt returns 13.3 and fifth in kickoff returns 23.2.
Hunter also is 18th in all-purpose Notre Dame is 14th in rushingrunning at 123.7 yards a game, and defense 131. 7, and Indiana State isYaroch is 11th in total offense at lith in passing defense 89.4.

181.6. Ball State's Rick Morrison and George Jenkins also are high Notre Dame among national leaders in punt returns and kickoff returns. 
boasts olympians
Morrison has returned 15 punts 225 yards for a 15.0 average. third Notre D;:mc probably did nntbest in the nation. Jenkins is 14th know they had live Olympic medalwith 12 kickoff returns for 286 winners cnrnlll'd at the universitv.
yards and a 23.8 average. Bruce but it's true. David Liebowill.
Montagner of Indiana State is Steve Urban and Carl Blettc wereeighth in kickoff returns with a 26.7 
all members of a Notre Dameaverage. 
men's basketball team that won first place in the Mexican Mini­
..-
Oiympics. Annther Domer Maria Chuca won th~· girls· !>hot put event
*Observer 

while Bruce Blanco. a member of the univcrsitv's track team. cap­tured the high jump event. Thl· mini-Olympic~ took place at the Universidad Anahuac where the five students arc members of the Sophomore Year Abroad program. 



Sports 

Classified Ads 
Will pay bigS for 4 GA Alabama tix. Call Diane 4435 or 255-5528 
Need ride to Purdue or Indy Friday-12th. Will share expenses Call 7?83 
Alabama 2Ga wanted SWill payS Charlie 287-4931 (No. Ans 129'5) 
Wanted 1 Alabama ticket. Cal 
Mike at 8376 
Need 2 GOOD Doobie Bros. Tix 
Call Paul 1066 
Desperately need 2 GA Alabama tickts. Call 4 5237 
Needed: Two Chica<Jo Concert tickets. Call Ed at .683:7506 
Desperately need 2 GA tix tor Miami Call Peggy 4-4381 
Need ride to M.S.U. on friday Nov. 19 Call Nick 8225 
Need GA tix for Alabama Call 6153 
Need 2 GA Alabama tickets call John 1757 
Please HELP!!! 1 desperately need 3 GA Alabama tickets tor parents and a priest. Call Stephanie 1364 
Need two Alabama tix. CAll Nancy 1276 
Must get 4 or 5 Alabama tickets or 1 will be disowned by family. Call Stan 283-4740 
NEED 6 ALABAMA TICKETS AT 
LEAST 2 GA CALL BEV 287-2219 
Will pay dollars tor 2 GA Alabama 
tix. Call Tom 3693 
Really Desperately need 2 GA 
Miami tix. Call Cindy at 4-4092 
Typing wanted-picked up and deli­vered. Reasonalbe. Diane 683 77 59 
Need 2 GA Alabama tickets. Call Claire 6833 
SKI FOR FREE!!! 15 Min from Notre Dame. Are you a Certified Ski Instructor or just an ardent skier who would enjoy instructing? Apply immediately Royal Valley Ski Resort Main St., Buchanan, Mich. (616) 695-3847 
Wealthy relatives 1 ~ed 2 GA Ala­bama tickets top dollar! Call Leo 3278 
Need Alabama Tickets somethin' fierce. Call Martha 4819 
Need BAMA tix's Emergency. Call any time. Judie 4452 
Desperartely need Barna tix. Call Ruth 7136 or 272-3513 
Need up to 10 'Barna tix. SS Call Jim or Kevin 234-8083 after 5 
Need GA tickets for Alabama or Miami, Call 6617 
Need 2 GA Alabama tickets ·Call Gary 3075 
Desperately need 2 GA Alabama tickets. CAll 5154 
Barna tix needed tor 1 or more student or Ga name your price-Joan 1334 
Will Pay S2U tor two good Chic •" · tix call Chris 288 9768 
FOR SALE 
Two Chicago tix together, padded seat. Call Tom 1022 
Are you lonely? Go to the Chicago concert! One (1) 9th row ticket for sale. Call Terri at 7853 
H EIERLING SKI BOOTS Top flight. Like new. Size 11. S75 Call 233-8622 after 5 
BOOK SHOP. Used Books Students Paradise. Open Wed., Sat., Sun., 9-7. Ralph Casperson Books, 1303 Buchanan Rd., Niles Mich. 683-2888 
Red girl's Austrian ski boots-like new-size six and a half. $9.00 call 4-5428 
71 MG Midge!. New lop, 26.~')0 miles $1750. Call 289-4702 
IBM SELECTRIC TYPEW RITE'R For Sale Excellent Condition. Call 7037 
Texas lnslrumenl SR-50 For Sale. Half year old $45.00 Call 1196 evenings. 
2 St.Jdent Bama tic~.ets. Call 5154 
PERSONALS 
Afraid to speak up with people? Learn to be assertive at the Asser. tion Training workshop. First session of four on Thursday, Nov. 11, 7-9 pm. Room 400 Adm. Bid. Inquire Counseling Center 1717 
Watch out tor the "Indiana Bana 
na" 
Jude, 21. what a woman! The Gang 
Jude, She's leqal! Watch-out Missouri Bars. · 
Dear Judy, Happy 21st Birthday. Love, Your Roomales 
Lookin<J tor a Hot Dale be at Stepan-'s main <Jale 9 :30 to 1, November the lith Don't be late. 
You can'! come with a date and you can'! leave without one-Sadie says "Give !hat 'HTH' a jill 
I want my 43.38. 
STRIDER: Here's lo our state of happy confusion. Happy Birthday and thanks for a wonderful weekend. 
ARWEN 
Andre, BON ANNIVERSAIRE! Je pense loujours a toi et tu me manques! 
Je t'aime, Tracy 
Sorin 7 Housewarming Party Friday 
4:00 on. 10 kegs, 10 houses down • from Nickies. 
Hey HTH Thanks tor the fantastic 4 day weekend! I had a helluva time! My birthday was just GREAT! 
"HAW, HAW" "The Big Kollege Kid" 
P.S. I Love you 
SENIOR ADVISORY COUNCIL MEETING TODAY AT 4:15 PM. ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY
____._...___._.__ 
ticket outlets: Boo<Jie Records (College Square) and 'Just tor the Record (1 00 Center) 
Audio Outlet: . All top-name stereo equipment wholesale. Call 283-1181 
Having a Kegger? For free beer delivery and Low Prices Call Chip 288·7878 
All persons who purchased Home­coming Packages. The Dance coupons MUST be redeemed for dance tickets. Redeem at S. U. ticket office this week. 
Neat, accurate typing of term paper Manuscripts. Call 287-5162 
FOR RENT 
Will rent my upstairs $40 mo. Girls only. Call 2JJ,J329 
Garage for rent. Call after 5:15p.m. 287-5718 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: at Campus View apts. Fri. nitt, Nov. 5. A light tan suede winter coat with white sheepskin lining. If found contact Jim (321 0) no questibns. Reward. 
Losi-Calculator(SR50A) between the circle and the Library on· NO Ave. Thurs. night Oct 28. Please return. Call Ben 233-4222 
To the bstd. who stole Calif license plate 565 JMV I want it back! Call 1747 
Lost: Camera and attachments from occupant's room in Old Field House 
(Art Dept.) over October break. 
Film in camera is important. Owner would greatly appreciate its return. 
Green down jacket mistakenly traded at North Dininn Hall, Line A-B, on Nov. 1 You've-got my large and I've gol your extra-large with gloves. Call 1160 
Pair of keys on Cartier Field sidelines. Please call 283-7516 
Lost and Found: If you picked up the wrong camel hair jacket by mistake at the Morrissey's Campus View party, Sat. Oct 30 please call Shannon 5150 SMC. I've got yours­reward for mine back 
WANTED 
Need 1 or 2 Alabama GA tickets Call 1571 
I NEED ALABAMA TICKETS. CALL CHRIS AT 288-8417 OR 283·8661, AF1'ER NOONS ONLY 
1 BAMA ticket GA or student. Any reasonalbe offer. Call J. R. 1802 
Will trade two Miami GA for one Alabama. 287-2621 

-------------------------------~ -­
---------------~ ---·­
the observer Wednesday, November 10, 1976 
I 



Wohlhuter discusses ND,Oiympics 
Last night, Notre Dame graduate and Olympic bronze medal winner RickWohlhutcrspokc with Observer -.porh writer Gregory Solman. 
Obsencr: How docs it feel to return to vour alma mater an Ol_vmpic Bn;nzc medalist. and what dwnges have you noticed on your 
return? 
Wohlhuter: I don't think the university has changed that much ~inn: I graduated --of course, l'\er~· graduate likes to think that the university hasn't changed since thn lived there. Of course, the 
advent of girls has changed things considerably. Obsencr: . How would ~-ou sum­marit.e the hendits of your Notre 
Dame eduvation'! Wohlhuter: I think that Notre Dame is a \'LTV uni4ue institution, and you probably appreciate it a little hit nHll'l' after vou\·l' been out of it for a fc\\ vears: You look back and rcalit.l' that the times were more simple when ~·ou were in vollegc. The univcrsit~· has a good 

reputation and a good alumni association. This does help me to a certain extent in my business. Observer: Was it very frustrating for you to have excelled at a sport and have it overshadowed by the football image? Wohlhuter: I realized that being overshadowed by the football team would be part of it, but I knew that there were other things to gain from Notre Dame besides having good seats at a good football game. I knew the school offered much 
more than that and that's what I look toward. Observer: Do you think Notre 
Dame will ever become a national track and field power? Wohlhuter: I don't think Notre Dame will ever become a national track and field power as far as the team is concerned. You may have certain individuals on the team that might excel!. Observer: How did it feel to work nine to live every day and then prepare for the Olympics knowing that in other places in the world 
Ray O'Brien 

Wake up the echos ... 


It st·•.ms that latl'lv Notre Dame football has not been living up to its tradi.llln. l'rilll' to last vcar Notre Dame had not lost more than two games dtt! tng the regular ';l'a..,on in II straight years. In this span the Irish were ranked in the top 10 nine times (the other two years they were ranked thirtl'L·nth and fourtl'enthl and clinched two national championship~. These team.., boa~tcd 42 All-American candidates, including a Hcisman ·1 ropll\ \\·innn. 
Ma\hl' it i~ not fair tol·ompare today's team with those of yesteryear. Times han· changed andl tradition sometimes gets lost in passing. The college game and the rules arc not what they u~cd to he. The NCAA has L'Ut the edge.., on big time football. Spending must he cut down and this ha~ alltm ed motT sdwot... to gl't their share of the top football player~ making the college game more competitive. Perhaps some of those planT.., would have gone to Notre Dame. Maybe that b why the Irish have ..,Jumped. It seems that if you don't break these new recruiting rules you can't form a nationalchampion~hip team. 
This is giving up too easily, crying that "the good guys can't win." ~llll'l' Notre Dame is a "good guy" their chances for another national ,·ontender arc slim or next to none. I don't accept this because Notre Dame is still one of the most respected football powerhouses in the country and the publicity they get is second to none. Fifty-three of the members of this year's squad recieved some type of All-American recognition in their hi~:IL school years. This proves th~ talent is definitely there. 
Maybe the reason that these players don't perform as well as they used to is because schoolwork is so demanding. A pia) er cannot major in phv~iral education at Notre Dame as many pi 1yers do at other universities. However, when one looks at the record books he finds that Ioplayers of the teams in that previous eleven year ~pan were Academic All-Americans. So it can be done. 
Notre Dame's football reputation was founded by Knute Rockne, carried on by Frank Leahy and resurrected by Ara Parseghian. People like Gipp. Sitko, Scwartz, Bertelli, Lujack, Hart, Lattner. Hornung. Huarte, Lynch, Page. Hardy. McCoy, DiNardo, Patulski. Casper. Niehaus and many more each added their two cents to Notre Dame's million dollar name. 
Perhaps it is unfair to compare today's players and coaches to these legends. But why shouldn't we if the.>e players are going ot grab the limelight and live off the reputations others have made. Notre Dame's reputation is hurting them because they hold onto it but fail to live up to it. 
The Irish have been playing more like the "Defensive Irish" then the Fighting lrish.Thc team is simply not sharp and cannot seem to get up for ever~ game. Do they assume that since they are Notre Dame they're going to win'! t may be painful but look at the last three games. Notre 
Dame grabbed a 4uick lead against South Carolin in he first half and then ... a. on it. Gamecock coach Jim Carlen commented, "\fter ovenoming the ncn ousness of playing Notre Dame, we played a sL·ong second half." 
T'1c same dull play continued into t.he game agains: Navy. The Middies got l'syched for a game against a legendary football power and found the' Irish clawing for their li' es. A defens ~ that had S( t a school record for kLTping teams out of th?ir end zone I >oked like S'<iss Cheese the way aerials went through the secondary. 
,\nd then the inevitable came. Yello·.vjacket ccach Peppu Rodgers aroU'-L'd his team for an unmotivated Iri ;h squad md put Notre Dame awa' with little trouble in the second half. "They pi: yed a perfect garr.e," ,·om.mcnted Coach Dan Devine. But the uismal pia) of the Irish had a lot t<l do with Georgia Tech's perfection. The Irish defense proved they could be a-; inept against the run as they were against the pass. There is no excuse for one of the best rushing defenses in the cc·untry to crumble tha: way. Beating the Icge•1dary Notre Dame team "made our season," is the wav Rodgers described the victory. 
It is time for the Irish to wake up and realize the potential they have. All this worrying may seem premature with only two losses showing, but the
• season could easily end with a 7-4 (6-5?) record with two of the last three games being against teams ranked in the top ten in the country. 
Notre Dame must work to keep their spot as one of the top schools in the country. Regardless of what the oddsmakers say, the name Notre Dame will not always speak for itself If there is time to recover, that time is now. The Irish can prove themselves against Alabama and get a post
... season bowl bid. It probably won't be Sugar or Cotton Bowls, but the Irish should take what they earn and expect no more. If the players, coaches and backers cannot achieve this excellence, they should stop getting the first class treatment they enjoy and expect from people that expect the quality of performance that comes with the name Notre Dame. 
there were athletes in a situation where training was their job? Wohlhuter: Well, that's just the way things are. Even some athletes in this country don't work during the day. Most of those, of course, are in college or are attending some school on a scho­larship. But after you graduate from school. you have to start paying your own way, and if you want to throw in little endeavors like training for an Olympic game, you just have to add that to your program and try to keep it as organized as possible. I think it is a worthwhile effort, and I put a lot of time and effort into it. I have no regrets over the last few years that I have been running at the interna­tional level. Observer: Would you consider your greatest athletic achievement your Olympic gold medal or your world record half mile? Wohlhuter: I suppose I would say mv world record means a bit more to-me. I worked hard, and it was an achievement that wasn't as plan­ned running in the Olympic games. It was more of a happening, yet it was a natural consequence of all the training and efforts I put into it. Observer: Do you have any ideas for a reform of the Olympics? Wohihuter: I think that any reform has to take place here in the United States' amateur athletic program before we start worrying about the structure of the whole Olympic games. The Olympic gam~s are very large and commercial but I think there is so much money, ideas and revenue exchanged tht the games are good in themselves. 
They have become polluted with political elements and that has hurt the games. but I guess that is true with most anything as large as that. Observer: Do you think that the process of selection of Olympic runners needs reform? Wohlhuter: Presently we have a kind of cut-throat, one-shot affair in making the Olympic team. It is not always the best runners that make 
Lacrosse team loses finale 

The Notre Dame Lacrosse Club finished their fall season on a losing note Sunday, as they were defeated by the Chicago Lacrosse Club, 9-8. 
The Irish controlled the game for three quarters but finally fell to the adroit stickhandling ability of an older Chicago team. Midfielder John Gray and attackman Tom Bingle paced the Irish offense as each scored two goals. Rounding out the Irish attack were single tallies by Club President Jay Williams, co-captain Bobby Dris­coll, and attackmen Jaimie Joyce 
and  Pat  Clynes.  In  goal,  Rich  
Mazzei  once  again  turned  in  a  
stellar performance.  

The loss proved costly to the stickmen, as starting attackman Tim W a Ish suffered a knee injury and defenseman Jim Philbin sus­tained a minor concussion. 
McLane suspended 
by Fred Herbst Sports Editor 

Mark McLane, co-captain and starting halfback for Notre Dame, has been suspended from the squad for the remainder of the season it was announced yesterday by Bob Best, assistant sports information for the University. The suspension is the result of viola­tions of team rules. 
Best declined to give the reasons for the suspension. "By university policy, we are not allowed to comment," he said. 
McLane carried the ball 18 times for 56 yards this season and caught nine passes for 110 yards and two touchdowns. 

Notre Dame graduate and Olympic bronze medalist, Rick Woh huter, spoke in front of an enthusiastic crowd at Howard Hall last night. 
the team but those who had the need in order to be ready to 
best time on that particular day compete on an international level. 
when the team was chosen. Observer: Do you have any plans 
A year or two prior to the for the next Olympic games? Olympic games, I would like to see Wohlhuter: I suspect that I will be us select ten or twelve people that a viewer rather than a participant. have the greatest likelihood of I probably won't be good enough to finishing in the top three positions. make the team any more. I don't I would like to see us watch those want to make my life solely running people; give them a phone number competitively. There arc other to call if they are injured, need things I'd want to get into such as training advice, or if they have any reorganizing my job, and my social problems. We can make sure they life. I will now have more time for receive the kind of competition they my family. 
*ObServer ... · ·. 





Sports·.· 
McKay lashes out 
TAMPA, Fia. (AP) -"I think they just want to show me I'm just a college coach--a losing college coach,'' says john McKay, still sour after facing a bitter rival in Denver and suffering another defeat. 
The Tampa Bay Buccaneers' boss stomped off the field after Sunday's 48-13 loss to Denver, refusing to shake hands with Bronco Coach John Ralston and severely criticized the Denver coaching staff for allegedly running up the score on his expansion team. 
After many victories through m• ,,, of his 16-year coaching tenure at the University of Southern California, McKay has walked off the field a loser in 13 of his last 14 games. That includes 0-9 in regular National Football League play and 1-5 in the Bucs' prest:a­son. 
When McKay made the jump to the NFL this year, he scoffed at questions about the difference between coaching in college and pro ranks. There wasn't any difference, he insisted. 
He asked for patience, saying it would take three or four years to build a contender. 
But now, McKay's misery and frustration is obvious. 
"I will not concede until the 14th game," he said. "But winning one or two won't make me that happy. A 2-12 record is repugnant. An 0-14 record is equally repugnant. I don't want to be a Denver or any of those jerks who've been in the league 17 years and never won anything. 
"I have been in the other position a lot more than that horse's ass," the Bucs coach said of the Denver coach. "I don't like any part of him. His day is coming." 
McKay admitted that his dislike was kindled when he was at Southern Cal and Ralston was at rival Stanford. 
McKay charged Denver with using devices to further mount the score--a reverse to tight end Riley Odoms and a last-moment punt return by Rick Upchurch. 
"My idea is that when you've got the game out of reach, you first try to protect your best players . Odoms or Upchurch could be hurt and out of the season on plays on plays like that," McKay said. 
"Secondly, I think you have to think about the guy on the other side of the field who is miserable. We had some high scores at S.C., but we were never plotting to pour it on." 
Ralston, told Sunday about Me Kay's displeasure, pointed 'Out that many of the Broncos' touchdowns came on fumble recoveries and interceptions. 
"If anything, we were adamant about not throwing against them," Ralston said. "Those were defen­sive points we scored. Hell, you can't tell your linebacker who intercepts the ball not to run with it." 
With an 0-14 expansion season a possibility, McKay could get the No. 1 draft pick. If that happens, it's likely McKay will reach back to his old campus and grab Ricky Bell, a 6-foot-2, 228-pound running back. 



