

Behind Nickies 
ND students assaulted 
by Chris Datzman Staff Reporter 
Two Notre Dame students were assaulted Sept. 4 on Georgiana St. behind Nickie's. This area around the bars has one of the highest crime rates in the city according to South Bend Police. 
The victims notified the police immediately, but did not report the story to the Observer for several days because of personal reasons. One of the students involved told the Observer that he and his girlfriend were returning from campus late Friday night after seeing Dr. Zhivago. 
"As we came down the street we saw a large crowd of people having a party on their front lawn. As we passed the crowd a kid yelled, 'Hey, get off those bicycles.' Another kid, maybe 18 years old, stepped out and grabbed our bikes," the student said. "For a few seconds we just looked at them in shock and held on to the bikes. Then I told my girlfriend to get into the house and to get my roommate. She ran to the house and began pounding on the door." 
The student said he had let go of his bicycle and joined his roommate on the porch of their house when "some older guys, also at the party. told us to go ahead and get our bikes. They thought, as we did, that maybe it had just been a joke," the student continued. "As we (he and his roommate) approached the street, another guy stepped from the crowd and pushed my roommate. In seconds we were on the ground being hit and kicked. I would guess that there were between five and ten people hitting each of us," he estimated. 
The student said he was pulled from the ground and 

e server 

un1versity of nofre dame sf m.:-~ry's college _ 
Volume XI, No. 13 


The Observer 

changes route 

1om O'Neil, editor of the Obser· ver, announced today that the Observer will rearrange its delivery route to increase the distribution to the Notre Dame dining halls. Complaints have been received that the supply of newspapers is depleted within 15 minutes of delivery. No complaints have been recevied from St. Mary's, where the number of newspapers delivered was boosted at the beginning of the semester. 
The number issues of the Obser· ver delivered to Notre Dame's south dining hall will be increased 150 percent, while the number to the north dining hall will be increased 116 percent. To compen­sate for this increase, delivery to the dean's office and the basement of the Memorial Library will be suspended. 
In addition to the two dining halls, the Observer will be de­livered to the following locations on the Notre Dame campus: LaFor­tune Center main lobby, Memorial Library hallways, the O'Shaugh-; nessy hallway outside the art gallery and the main bus stop. St. Mary's College will continue .to receive the Observer at the dining hall and the Madeleva study lounges. 
Thursday, September 16, 1976 

Roemer relates party policy 
by Mariam UUcny Staff Reporter 

Restrictions on the size and advertising of dorm parties at Notre Dame were recently explained by James A. Roemer, dean of stu­dents. 
' 'The party policy is pretty well 
set down in the bulletin I issued at 
the beginning of the year," stated 
Roemer. The policy is also outlined 
in duLac, the student handbook. 
The bulletin, issued Aug. 31, 1976, states, "At Notre Dame, alcoholic beverages. cannot be con­sumed by students in any location on campus except in a private room. Alcoholic beverages cannot be consumed in corridors, common rooms, lounges, in the stadium, or on the grounds.'' According to Roemer, the direc­tives are a reiteration of last year's policies, and there has been no 
change. · 
Large, widely advertised parties 
are discouraged because of the 
private room restriction. Accord­
ing to du Lac, '' small private room 
obviously does not have the facilit­
ies to hold many people, nor can 
larger parties in the living areas of 
the halls without proper planning 
remain isolated enough to respect 
the rights of other residents.'' 
Roemer considers party advertis­
ing "pretty much of a common 
sense thing,'' adding, ''if he (a 
student) puts out an ad, it appears 
he is inviting more than a private 
room can handle. It would be 
obvious that the party is in violation 
of the intent of the private room 
policy." 
Advertising an admission price to a party is prohibited. "If anybody on campus were to have a ·party and charge admission for the purpose of reimbursing them­selves for the costs of beer or alcohol. it is contrary to the laws of 
helped back to the porch by a neighbor and her son. By this time my roommate was coming up to the house bleeding very badly," he said. "We went into the house and locked the doors. Since we didn't have a phone, I ran to Nickie's and asked them to call the police. I returned to the house with three Notre Dame guys who helped clean us up." 
The police arrived immediately, he said, but by that time most of the people had cleared out, taking the bicycles with them. The police drove the students to the hospital where they were treated for cuts and bruises. "The worst injured was my roommate," the student source said. "He had to have a plastic surgeon repair his ear. Afterwards, we locked up the house and spent the weekend with my parents." 
"For several days the three of us discussed whether or not we would bring the story to the Observer," he explained. We didn't ask the Observer to do a story just to have something to write about, but to inform the community as best we could about how we felt and what the facts were." 
He said the students knew that the area had a high burglary rate, but had no idea "anything like this" could happen. "We haven't stayed in the house overnight since," he stated, "and we are planning to move to another house as soon as possible." According to the student source, the woman next door was threatened the next day "because she helped us." She has moved her children ou-t and has her brother and mother stay with her, he said. "We feel on of the main reasons we had trouble was because we weren't cautious. We were just too naive," he concluded. 
(Continued on page 8) 
the state of Indiana,'' Roemer stated. "Only bars can do that, " he added. 
According to Roemer, charging admission to a party is "running a bar without a license." He further noted, ''If the University allows such business, it jeoparaizes our 
licenses, such as the one at the Morris Inn." 
Roemer stressed the need for regular, conscientious enforcement of the party policy by individual rectors in order to provide "some kind of fairness and uniformity among the halls.'' He added that if one hall has rather lenient restrict­ions, it is not fair to those governed more strictly. 
Rectors agree 
A sampling of individual rectors expressed opinions in general a­greement with the dean. 
Fr. Daniel Jenky, Dillon rector, commented, "I generally don't allow 'come-one-come-all' parties only the kind with invited guests, not general admimssion. I don't want any big ad campaigns.'' 
According to Fr. John Mulcahy, Flanner rector, he enforces the party polilcy "exactly as it's writt­en". The residents are not allowed to advertise. 
"We follow the directives that we're given," stated Fr. Matthew Miceli, Cavanaugh rector. "We have small parties, but the trouble you have is to try to define what 'small' is. I don't allow any floor parties or section parties,'' he said. 
Sr. Jean L~nz, Farley rector, said, "I don't think the residence hall is the place to have a big public party in the living areas. My policy for the ordinary weekend thing is to abide by the. Univers'ity policy." 
"I Think parties are a part of Does this man look like your father? In today's op-ed page (pg. 


6] we reprint Fr. james Burtchaell's original in loco parentis article. Burtchaell presents the theory of i'l loco parentis as a total, parentaly concern and love for the students. 


Speck denied parole 
JOLIET, Ill. -It took only five minutes for the state parole board to deny freedom yesterday to ~ichard Speck, convicted of killing etght young nurses in their Chicago townhouse 10 years ago and now serving 400 to 1,200 years in the state penitentiary. 
Law enforcement officials and relatives of the slain women appe­ared at a public hearing on paroling Speck. 
"I would rather come to his execution than his pardon," said John Wilkening of Lansin_g, Ill. His only daughter, Pamela, was one of Speck'svictims. 
It became known several weeks ago that Speck was eligible for parole. Since that time, officials said, they received about 3,000 letters demanding Speck be kept behind bars. 
The Illinois Parole and Pardon Board deliberated for only five minutes before denying Speck par-
life," commented Sr. Kathleen Rossman, Walsh rector, "but I feel I have an obligation to the University to follow what Dean Roemer says." 
Ms. Sally Duffy, Lewis rector, stated that her residents • 'know they're allowed to drink in their rooms, and they know they're not allowed to drink in any public place. We've never had any reason to go farther than that." 
ole. The board said setting him free at this time "would depreciate the seriousness of the crime.'" 
The  board  had  held  a  private  
meeting  earlier  with  Speck  at  
Stateville, Penitentiary.  Peter A.  

Kotsos, board chairman, said he and two other members talked with Speck for 40 minutes in a prison hearing room. 
Speck was dressed in blue denim prison work clothes, Kostos said. "He had no remorse during the questioning period concerning the crime and maintained his innocen­ce," Kotsos said. 
The public hearing followed the board's meeting with Speck. 
"I think Speck should stay in prison as long as the girls are in their grave," ' Wilkening told the board. 
Joseph Matusek of Homewook, Ill., the ·rather of another of the girls, appeared before the board. "People come up to me. They tell me 'if you don't do something about him we will... ~e will cut him with a razor blade.' and I believe they will," Matusek said. 
Speck, who is now 34 was sentenced to die in the electric chair following his trial in Peoria. He was saved with the death penalty was declared unconstituti­onal by the Supreme Court. 
After the ruling he was sentenc· ed to served eight consecutive terms of from SO to 150 years in prison for each murder · a total of 400 to 1,200 years. 
Speck will automatically receive ·another parole hearing in Septe­mber of 1977 and every year thereafter, Kotsos said. 


...:2:..__...:...·...!.t!..!h:..=e~o~b=-s=-e=-.:..r...:v...:::e::...:r:..___---=.T.:..:h.::;ur;.;:s=day L ~eptember 16, 1976 
,.---News Briefs--......_. 
t=================lnternational 
Less hope 
DARES SALAAM* Tanzania -President Julius Nyerere said yesterday after meeting with Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger he was "less hopeful than I was before" about chances of averting a rafial bloodbath in southern Africa. Nyerere said it would be a miracle if Rhodesia, where 270,000 whites rule some six million blacks, were to accept majority rule in two years as Kissinger and others have proposed. Both men spoke to reporters after a meeting yesterday. 

t===================National 
State can intervene 
OKLAHOMA CITY , A healthy, 3-year-old boy has been made a ward of the court because his parents say their religious beliefs would forbid medical care if he became ill. The boy's infant sister died of pneumonia after his parents refused to call a doctor. A five-man, one-woman Oklahoma County District Court jury ruled the state has the right ot intervene in the family's affairs because the parent's religious beliefs might result in harm to a child. 

Cases may be reopened 
WASHINGTON -The path was cleared yesterday for a House vote next week on reopenting investigation of the assassinations of President John F. Kennedy, Martin Luther King and possibly Sen. Robert Kennedy. The House Rules Committee approved consideration of a resolution for a special investigating committee, and sponsors predicted revelations in the case s of the president and the civil rights leader. 
....-.-on Campus Toda!J'---.. 
4 pm-
4:30pm­
6:30pm­6:30pm ­7:15pm 
& 9:30pm 7:30pm_ 7:30pm_ 
8 pm-
midnight­
12:15 am-
seminar -"the study of primary charge carriers ir irradiated systems by microwave conductivity" by dr. john m. warman, interuniversity reactor insti­tute, delft, the netherlands, sponsored by radiation laboratory, radiation lab conference room. 
meeting • college of arts and letters scholarship meeting for marshall and rhodes scholarships, 105 o'shaugnessey. 
placement night • for seniors and graduates in business administration, cce auditorium 
film . "the legend of sleepy hollow," sponsored by english department, carrol hall. 
film • "american graffiti", sponsored by social commission, tickets, $1.25, o'laughlin auditorium. 
meeting • nd/smc council for the retarded, library auditorium. 
I 

meeting • college of arts and letters scholarship meeting for fulbright scholarship, 115 o'shaugnes­sey. 
recital • faculty harpsichord recital with dr. arthur lawrence, st. mary's college, sponsored by music department, stapleton lounge. 
album hour, rich spellman plays a new release in its entirety, wsnd am [640[. 
nocturne night flight -steve slater plays the best in progressive music, wsnd fm [88.9[ 
*The Observer 
Night Editor· Marti 'Big Bag' Hogan Ass't Night Editor • Paul Schappler, Giacomo D' Aurora Layout -Steve Odland, Karen Ann Zalecki, Barry Tillis, Joe Wheaton, Sara McDonald, Maria Frigyesi, and Drew Bauer in last place but still in the race Copy Editor -Barb Langhenry Day Editor-Mary Mungovan Editorials ·John Coldcuts (4 days) Features -Chris What color is my hair today? Smith Sports -Paul Stevenson Typists -Gwen Coleman, Susan Shellenburger, Kathy Ebgert, Nancy Cueroni, Gia­como D' Aurora 
Night Controller -Morey 'Bcok 
Bag' Blinder and his very tired dancing digitals Special late guest -Joe Bauer 
Resident Masochist -Carolina Co-martyrs Morey & Giacomo 
Hello to the observer 'Bag' people --Paper, Book, The and Nickel. 


Soviets 
MOSCOW -Three weeks after the 
return of two cosmonauts from 
space, the Soviet Union yesterday 
launched two more men into orbit, 
this time on a shorter photographic 
mission. 
One of the new cosmonauts, 
Vladimir Aksenov, said the Soyuz 
22 spacecraft will not dock in space 
with the Salyut 5 space station still 
in orbit after the conclusion of last 
month's space mission. 
In that mission, two cosmonauts spent seven seeks aboard the orbiting space lab, after docking with it in their Soyuz 21 spacecraft. 
In a television interview taped before the launch, Aksenov said he and cosmonaut Valery Bykovsky were making a relatively short "solo" flight. He did not say how long it would be, but said the spaceship is a "self-contained craft for the fulfillment of economic tasks." 
Also interviewed on television, 
Grateful Dead tix 
available at SU 
Tickets for the Grateful Dead Concert in Indianap9lis are now on sale at all River City Review ticket outlets and at the Notre Dame Student Union Ticket Office. General admission tickets are $6.25 each. The concert will be held at the Market Square Arena on Fri­day, October 1. 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday CV'ld weekly during the surrmer session, except during the exaiT6 CV'ld vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame CV'ld St. /11\ary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $18 ($10 per semester) Iro-n The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, lndiCV'la 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

SHOPPING CENTER -PHONE-259-9090 
TOMORROW "WOMAN" 4:00-9:00 IIALICE" 2:00-7:00 
TWo Women's Approach to One Common Issue: Womanhood. 
Academy Award 'Mnner: Besl Actress 
ELLEN BURSTYN KRIS KRISTOFFERSON AliCE DOESNT 
UVE HERE ANYrv10RE 
Techmcolor ® From Warner Bros ~ AWarner Communrcatrons Company"' 
TOMMORROW 1:45-3:45-5:45-7:45-9:45 
NOr SINCE tolE SfCRY_ 
'THE OTHER SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN' 
......__A-UN-'V-ER-sA-LP-'c-Tu-RE-·TE_c-~N...,:c_.o~-~R_:~-~-~·-· 




launch Soyuz 22 
veteran cosmonaut Vladimir A. hatalov said, "Soyuz 22 has nothi­ng to do with the work of orbital station SalyutS. It is an indeoend­ent flight. The apparatus of Soyez 22 is designed for independent observation and a large volume ot photography. This is not to be a prolonged flight.'' 
Col. Bykovsky, 42, the comman­der of the mission, is a space veteran who first orbited in 1963 aboard the Vostok 5. On that mission he teamed up with the world's first woman cosmonaut, Valentina Tershokova, who was aboard Vostok 6. 
Aksenov, 41, the flight engineer, has worked in spacecraft design since 1963 and joined the cosmona­ut corps three years ago, Tass said. 
The Soyuz 22 spacecraft was originally designed as a backup to the Soyuz 19 which docked with the American Apollo spacecraft in July 1975, the government newspaper Izvestia reported. The backup spacecraft was not needed. Izvest­ia said, anq was modified for this mission. 

In place of its docking unit, a sophisticated "multizonal" camera manufactured by the East German firm of Karl Zeiss Jena was placed in the nose cone, the newspaper said. According to the Tass report, a major part of the spacecraqft's missiuu will be photography of East Germany and the Soviet Union. 
The evening television broadca­st, five hours after the blast off, 
./
said the spacecraft was functioning normally and the cosmonauts were feeling well. 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiJiil 

BOOK EXCHANGE 
LAST 



CHANCE 
TO PICK UP UNSOLD BOOKS & MONEY FROM THE BOOK EXCHANGE. 
Thurs 6:00 -9:00 pm LaFortune Ballroom 
Unsold books become the property of Student Union after Thursday. 

I'm an Air Force of­
ficer and this is my 
sweet chariot. When I 
visit home people are 
happy to see me. And 
proud. They say I'm 
doing my part in the 
community by show­
ing the young people 
and the adults that 
you really can make 
it. You really can get 
your share of the 
good life. 
I also feel good about my position in the Air Force commu­nity. I'm a leader 
there, too. I'm some~ 
one the other broth­
ers and srsters I meet in the service can look to. And it reas­sures them to know they have a voice in Air Force matters that concern them. 
Th•' Air Force needs more leaders... pilots ... aircrew members ... math majors...sci­ence and engineering majors. You might be one of them and the best way to find that out is in an Air Force ROTC program. There are two, three, and four-year programs. Scholarship and non­scholarship. Why not look into all of them and see if one fits 

Yt~ubr~!~~~: It's worth Contad Capt. D. T. Davis 283-6634 
Put it all together in Air Force ROTC. 
, , 


Thursday, September 16, 1976 the observer 

Unlike national trend 

NO enrollment increases 
continue as the quality of the school 143 7 N. Ironwood
trl ers prepare .or 1ong wa out; inc;.ft~s;~g~v~~ph~:~i~~s 0
are at an South Bend
d I d t ., t L all time high of 6309, both Conklin Appointment only 
S t• 6 's

un I nex weent~:1 

277-0615 
to 10.1 million in Cl?lleges anu
by Drew J.Bauer 


Staff Reporter 
While the total number of stu­dents attending the nation's col­leges and schools has declined recently due to the lower birth rate, the number of applicants to Notre . Dame has increased 12 percent over the last two years. 
"1 thiRk that lower enrollment is going to be a national phenom-enon that is ·not going to effect every individual school," provost Fr. James T. Burtchaell said "We are confident that due to the quality of this school. applications will continue to rise," he added. 
"Unlike other schools that h;we serious problems getting appli­cants, our only problem is that we have to turn down so many quality


B-P left in the dark 
An electrical problem iti Breen-Phillips caused a slight pow­er failure in most south-wing rooms between 8pm and 9 Tuesday night. Repairmen were working yesterday afternoon to make sure it does not happen again. 
Sue Olin, secretary of Breen-Phillips and a resident in one of the rooms which had power failure, said that the electricity was off and on five or six times. However, she said that it was "no major catastro­phe.' • 
Sr. Vivian Whitehead, rector of Breen-Phillips, also stated that it was not a major problem. She said only the rooms lost electrical 
power. Hallway lights remained · ooccur so infrequently. high school and jump four percent
•k lk 

mee lngs
DETROIT -Negotiators m the 
strike against Ford Motor Co. 
indicated yesterday that contract 
talks will not resume unti.I next 
week, and a union source said the 
autoworkers were bracing for a 
strike of at least three weeks. 
United Auto Wot;kers President Leonard Woodcock, who called ff
22 0

170,000 workers in states 
~~~i~~~:i~~i:;n~~~i!th~~~:~~c~: f~:! 
short strike. A union source close to Woodc­ock said union bargainers feel the 
two sides are far apart and are not 
sure how to get talks going again. 
"We know how to get in touch ... meetings can be arranged on very short notice," a Ford spokesman satd, and' the UAW said, too, that negotiators would be available to resume talks before Monday. 
The coast-to-coast walkout, the
first agauist the nation's No. 2 automaker since a 66-day work ·stoppage in 1967, became inevita­ble last weekend when Woodcock announced there had been no progress made on any major issue despite eight weeks of discussions. 
A Ford spokesman said a survey of truck operations -inclu­ding 19 a..semply plants, 33 parts depots and 43 manufacturing plan­ts-indicated "all picketing is going along smoothly'' without incid~nt. 
Bag Brothers, 
new social club, hold first meeting 
A new campus social fraternity, 
the Bag Brothers, met for the first 
time at the Senior Club last night. 
At the meeting, Steve ''Duffel 
Bag" Plain was elected the chair­
man. 
The Bag Brothers, founded by 
Rob Tully and Steve Plain was 
given its name by Morey Blinder.· 
Membership is limited to 77, with 
67 places already filled. New 
members must be nominated by a 
.ijag and approved by unanimous 
vote of the membership. 
The next meeting of the organi­
zation will be 8:15 p.m. this 
Wednesday, September 22, at the 
Senior Club. 
applicants due to a lack of space," 
said Richard W. Conklin, director 

of information services. "But as lit. the birth rate continues to fall and 
John Moorman, assistant direct-the number of students available or of maintenance, said the main get smaller, we are going to have to problem was overloaded condit-work harder for good students.'' he ions. "A new transformer system further stated. and main switch gear has been According to the Department of installed, so the problem is very Health, Education and Welfare's unusual," said Moorman. "How-(HEW) annual "Back to School" ever, the problem will be eliminat-report published in the Associated ed." Press, officers are expecting a 
I 00,000 drop in the total number of 

Director of Security, Arthur students from last year's historic Pears, said that a black-out a few high of 60.2 million. , years ago in one of the dining halls Enrollments are forecast to dec­prompted emergency lighting to line more than one percent to 34.2 be installed in the dining halls, but million youngsters in elementary no such device has been installed in schools, increase less than one the dormitories because black-outs percent to 15.8 million students in 


e aye :hBcu;~s~;eN~~~~e~:!eh~:it~~~ 
He added that 60,000 non-union 
employes reported for work as usual, although, auto output had come to an abrupt halt. 
Financtal analysts have said a brief walkout would have no signif­icant adverse impact on Ford, the 
strikers or the national economy, but a strike of more than a month would begin to hurt everyoneinvolved as well as the economic recovery. Striking workers are eligible for weekly benefits ranging from $40 for a si1,1gle person to $50 for a family. The union has a 
record $175 million in its strike fund, enough to survive a four-mo­nth walkout at Ford. 
"We have many issues between us; we have done almost nothing," Woodcock said in an address Wednesday before the annual con­vention of the Michigan AFL-CIO. "We've settled only minor matte­
-----------------------------------------~~--------------. 
1 13LOCK SOUTH 
OF HOUDAYI~N 



rs." m.ght effect applications in the He said he told his bargaining futu··e. Close to Campus committee, which must approve "We are concerned that as.__________...;; _ _. 
any tentative settlement, to go home and rest until late Sunday or early Monday. 
One major issue dividing the two sides is a top union demand for 12 more paid days off each year to preserve current jobs and create new ones Ford has offered up to fiv e move days a year, based on seniority and attendance. The company began the strike with about 490,000 cars and 180,000 truck'> in stock. Analysts said the autos would last 65 days, based on recent selling rates. However, most of the car stocks are comprised of slow-selling 1976 small cars. The company said its inventories include 150,000 new 1977-models, which normally are in hot demand this time of year. 


ANY COLLEGE OF SCIENCE STUDENT INTER­
ESTED IN REPRESENTING THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE ON THE ACEDEMIC COUNCIL SHOULD SUBMIT NAME AND BRIEF STATE­MENTOF PURPOSE BEFORE OCT. 8th TO: 
STUDEiNT CHAIRMAN 
THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
STUDENT COUNCIL c/a THE OFFICE OF DEAN OF SCIENCE RM 229 NEIWLAND SCIENCE 
universities. 
This year's enrollment at Notre Dame is 8797, including law, graduate, oversea study programs and 6858 full tirre undergraduates This compares to 8750 total in the 1975-76 and 8808 in the 1974-75 school years. The number of teach­ing and research faculty has re­mained around 650 during the last three years. 
''The popularity of Notre Dame will always keep the enrollment up," said Admissions Counselor Lawrenct• P. Burns. He continued, "It is becoming more evident in the minds of this nation's juniors and seniors that Notre Dame is an outstanding quality university, not just a football college." 
"But in the future, with the 

national applicant pool decreasing r------=F""A,..,S="T=-------, in quality, we are just going to have to work harder," said Burns. TYPEWRITER 
"We have a great alumni and we ICE have them organized across the country to represent us in functions that we do not have the time to 2915 Mishawaka 
Ave. do," he continued." This kind of '----=:..:.....::..=.....:..:.;:.:.=::..:..=:..:..:.=::....::~.::.:...­personal outreach will help us getr--------------. the quality kids here in the future." 
arm 
The alumni outreach program also was one of the causes of the increased enrollment this year. 
a 

·'Actually, we accepted SO less Barber & Hair freshmen this year. But as the Style Shop usual confirmation rate is between 54 and 55 percent, this year, thanks Open six. days a 
dn 

partly to the alumni program, it Week was 59 percent. Mon-Fri 8 to 5 :30 
"We are very gratified with the increase in applicants," Burtchaell Sat 8 to 3:00 said, "and we are sure that it will tUitiOn rises, we will price our­selves out of the middle class group which usually supplies the bulk of the Notre Dame student body," said Conklin. "Notre Dame doesn't want to be a school just for the rich, or the poor who can find grants from the government." 
"Cost is the adverse factor," said Burns. ''It will work against us more th~n the birth rate as quality people go elsewhere because they can't afford us." 
Even with last. years increase in tuition, student tuition make!. up oni• 38 percent of the University's j,tJ{, million operation budget for ti~, al 1977. The other 62 percent :mnes from such sources as the bookstore, cafeterias. varsity athlc· tics. endowment fund~ and gifts. 

5ALE RUNS THRU SEPT. 2.2 



Ford outlines national goals in speech at Uof M 
President Ford, formally opening tough law enforcement and peace his fall casmpaing y(.sterday with a for all mankind. nostalgic visit to his Michigan alma Echoing the words of his accep­mater, sketched his vision of tance speech at the Republica Ameri~a's future as a job for National Convention, Ford pro-· everyone with a desire to work and mised a campaign of 'specifics -not a home for every family with a smiles, performance -not promis­dream vf owning one. es.' But his text was sprinkled with 
In a speech at the University of generalities, and he drew few 
Michigan, where he was most specific paths for achieving his valuable football player in his goals. senior year, the President also set Ford aides said his speech was as his national goals affordable intended to refute any notion that 
health care, quality education, he lacks intellectual ability w 
******************** 
CAMPAIGN 
76 

P.8. 

******************** 



Stoltz clarifies class officer duties 
by Paula Carroll committee. She advised the hall Staff Reporter presidents to attend the meetings 
Mary Ann Stoltz, vice president of the board, to which they would of student affairs, tried to clarify act as an advisor, but hold no questions, explain responsibilities voting privileges. and offer suggestions for the The meeting continued with an coming year at the first meeting of explanation of the responsibilities St. Mary's hall and class officers of hall government, hall council last night. 
and representatives. Stoltz sugge­The group discussed the Student sted systems that would enable hall Manual, which lists procedures, presidents to run their meetings 
and strucutre and explanations of more smoothly. the class and hall governments. The editor of the interhall news­
Stoltz called attention to the two letter, Connie DePyper, suggested areas that were changed. Interhall that the hall officers contact her for Relations Board and the Fire Saftey any news article they want pub-
Morris announces contest 
NEW YORK, N.Y., Sept. 6--Philip Morris Incorporated has announc­ed its eighth annual Marketing/C­ommunications Competition for co­llege students. It has also announ­ced that the program has been expanded to accommodate a large increase in response from the academic community. 

This year Philip Morris will offer separate awards to graduate and undergraduate students, reco­gnizing the varied degrees of training and levels of experiencr :between the two. A $1,000 grat• ' will be awarded to the winning Jcommittee in each division; runne­. rs up will receive $500 grants, and other finalists in each category will 
, receive special merit awards!. 
1 · The purpose of the program is to pr.ovide students with a practical and realistic business project, bri­nging them into direct contact with the business community. Entries may deal with any aspect of the broad area of marketing/commun­ications related to Philip Morris Incorporated, its operating compa­nies or any of its non-tobacco products. Student chapters of profession! societies, regular classes or ad hoc committees of no less than five students and-a faculty advisor may submit proposals. They should include the purpose and objective of their program. In addition to the grants, two student representatives and the faculty advisor from each of the winning and runner up committees will be invited to be Philip Morris's guests at corporate headquarters in New York or at another corporate location to discuss their proposals with Philip Morris executives. A distinguished committee of ·t marketing/communications exper­. ts will judge selected entries. They 
are: Eugene Kummel, chairman of the board McCann Erickson; Mary Wells Lawrence, chairman of the board, Well, Rich Greene; Arjay Miller, dean, Stanford University Graduate School of Business; Will­iam Ruder, president Ruder & Finn; and James Bowling, vice president and director of corporate affiars, Philip Morris. 
For additional information, cont­act Market/Communications Com­petition, Philip Morris Incorporat­ed, 100 Park Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017. 
govern the nation, and show that he deserves election in his own right for restoring confidence in the presidency after Watergate. 
The text of the President's speech did not mention his chal­lenger, Jimmy Carter, by name. 
TheDemocratic· nominee, mean­while, linked up with running mate Sen. Walter F. Mondale for an appearance at a farm exposition in' Minnesota, then went to Dearborn, 30 miles from the university where Ford was speaking at Ann Arbor. 
At a Michinga AFL-CIO conven­tion in a Dearborn hotel, Carter said Ford has compound­ed errors by his predecessor, Richard Nixon, in economic policy, turning 'difficulty into disaster.' He._said Nixon-Ford mistakes 
caused 'our current economic cri­sis.' 
Carter said Nixon's mistakes included 1971 wage and price controls, 1972 wheat sales to the Soviet Union and a 1973 cutback in the money supply, which the Democrat said caused interest rates to skyrocket. He said Ford's mistakes were his request for a tax increase in 1974, 'deliberate at­tempt to raise energy prices,' and scrapping programs to reduce un­
lished. 
Stoltz explained that the class officers do not have a structure as rigid as-the hall government, but they are responsible for the variety of annual events sponsored by each class. 
Cindy Callahan, past junior class prl'sident, offered suggestions to th1 current officers. She said that th( biggest problem is finding where to look for information and who to ask. She also suggested becoming familiar with Steve Wernig, assistant dean to Stu-dent Affairs. "That's some­thing that's really important," she added. 
Therese Chin, former sophomore 
class president, told the present. 
officers that their m:tin responsibil­
ities will be Sophomore Parents': 
Weekend and the formals that the 
class will sponsor. 
Callahan and Chin advised the 
officers to involve as many girls as 
possible. "They're a lot of capable 
people who aren't involved in 
student government who can really 
help. Don't try to do it yourself or 
you'll go crazy,'' they concurred. 
Stoltz concluded the session 
listing a variety of names, numbers 
and sources that will help the 
officers. She included telephone 
numbers of newpapers, art supply 
stores and sources for fund raising 
activities. 



CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS 
Applications for considerations this year's Student Government 
. Budget can be picked up the Government Offices 

Deadline for completion is Wed., Sept 22. 

employment and increase produc­
tivity. 

He didn't specify the programs. 
For both candidates, the day marked a return to the scene of important primary victories. Ford regained his 'momemtum against Ronald Reagan with a thumping home-state victory, and Carter enhanced his nomination prospects by holding off Rep. Morris K. Udall in Michigan. 
The President's trip was his first since the traditional opening of the presidential campaign on Labor Day. 
His strategy is to stay near the W~ite House as much as possible, make news in the Oval Office and stress his incumbency. Except for his· Sept. 23 debate with Carter in Philadelphia, the Michigan trip is the only visit the President plans outside Washington this mont. 
On his arrival with Mrs. Ford at the Michigan campus, the Presi­dent met with two dozen students and answered questions for nearly an hour. 
One student suggested he was an unelected president who thwar­ted the will of elected representa­tives of the people with his vetoes. 
Ford replied with good humor , 'I can justify every single one those vetoes.' He said 42 of them were sestained Congress. Records show Congress has voted to sustain 15 Ford vetoes, but that the President· won in showdowns over bills 29 other times when Congress had no chance or made no attempt to override him. 
Ford said it would be unfair to those who fought in Vietnam to 
BE PREPARED TO BREW 
THE BOILERMAKERS 
AND BUY YOUR BEER BEFORE!! ,.~ ~ 

12th St. Uquor Store For1age Party Shop 12th St. in Mishawaka 826 Portage Avenue 
offer pardons for war resister. On labor unions, he said, 'Just be­cause a union is big doesn't mean it is bad.' And in reply to a question about abortion, he said he voted agains a Michigan proposal for abortions-on-demand during the first 20 weeks of pregnam:y. 
The President watched Michi­gan's 1976 football team •tt practice and arranged to eat dif,ner at its training table. 
'They're an awful lo bigger today,' he said. 'Not only are they bigger, but they're better.' The Wolverines are ranked number one in the latest Associated Press football poll. 
In his speech, Ford asked the country to ask which presidential candidate will act on his vision. 'the question in the campaign of 1976 is not who has a better vision of America, the question is who will act to make that vision a reality,' said the President. 
Although there was no mention of Carter's name in the President's text, Ford did refer to what he has described in the past as Carter's fu~ziness and his'flip-flops' on issues. The President declared: 
'Trust is leveling with the people before the election about what you're going to do after the election. 
'Trust is not being all things to all people, but being the same thing to all people. 
Trust is not cleverly shading words so that.each separate audience can hear what he wants to hear but saying plainly and simply what you mean -and meaning what 

ALL STORES OPEN NIGHTS 'TILL 11 PM 



Reflections on a Special Place 
Robert leader Professor of Art 

I didn't like Sacred Heart Church at all The present Church, built between when I first saw it in the summer of '52. It 1869-92, replaced a smaller brick church seemed a fossile of traditionalism . . . a begun in 1846 which, in turn, had contradiction to the supposed modernity of superseded the first log chapel of 1842. this Catholic college aspiring to greatness (The present log chapel is a replica as a university. I wondered why they 
constructed in 1906.) T.W. Brady of St. 

hadn't pulled the damn thing down? As an Louis appears to have been the architect of avowed young Cubist, I despised romantic the new Church. Curiously, somewhateclecticism. My God, I thought, ogive earlier, Patrick C. Keely of New York City arches on a Hoosier prairie and only a few had designed a scaled-down copy of thehundred miles from Wright's Taliesin Roman Jesuit church, 11 Jesu, for FatherEast, at that! It was a real put-down. 
Sorin. However, an Administration build­The old Curch seemed dark and chilly ing and Sorin Hall were being erectedinside; it was empty and silent. I recall concurrently so monetary considerations

broken linoleum and splintered pews. Everything squeaked. We looked at the 
led to the acceptance of Brady's Gothic relics and wax effigies, said a short prayer Revival plan over the preferred domed, for a safe trip home, signed the visitor's Baroque church of Keely. · book and left. Once outside in the blinding The building of a Gothic church here light, the campus seemed to doze in a was, to a considerable extent, a matter of humid , verdant beauty. I was troubled seeking respect and recognition in some­though. I thought of the new chapels at times hostile environment. A sense of 
M.l.T. and I.l.T. and of Breuer's great continuity and of cultural security was church for Collegeville ... even Yale had a assumed by identifying with the greatmodern Catholic church! 
artistic tradition left behind in Europe. On We trudged about sightseeing. I pushed a more banal level; it constituted provincial my little son in his stroller while my wife, aping of urban sophistication. 

in her eighth month with ,our unborn Brady's church is mostly French in itsdaughter, labored in the heat. She pointed stylistic origins: a cruciform plan without to me that unlike the collegiate Gothic choir, ambulatory, anc chevet chapels.
architecture that we had known in the Ivy There is a nave arcade, a triforium andLeague. here at Notre Dame the various clerestory, on the main aisle, and groined, niches were filled with figures of the ribbed vaults on the ceiling. Yet thesaints. of Jesus' friends. I liked that. 
Reflecting on this observation as the _placement of a single tower on the facade, 
afternoon wore on, I began to instinctively the base of which functions as a narthex 
realize that I had cone home although I had (entrance hall), is more reminiscent of 
never seen this place before. English Norman, or even German, medi­
The following summer I joined the Notre eval form. Nevertheless, this tower and 
Dame faculty. spire are exceptionally well proportioned 
I had no way of knowing that first and remain visually refreshing under 
summer that some 20· years later that son constantly changing seasonal patterns of 
and unborn daughter would graduate from light and weather. This spire is rightly 
this place followed by other siblings. Nor famous as one of the symbols of the 
did I sense that Sacred Heart Church would university. 
see the marriages of these children and the In the study of the Medieval Style, I have 
requiems of colleagues. It would become a walked thousands of art history students 
very special place for me infused with a through the Church to examine what was 
force that seemed to transfigure the old , typical in the original style and what are 
bricks and timbers. anomalies in the revival. Surprises like the 
With time, I came to realize that the glazed triforium gallery that functions as a 
building of this church in 1869 was a brave blind clerestory emptying into an attic in 
effort by a man of refined taste living in the plaster pendants that hang like icicles 
what must have been a very grubby place. from the choir arcade. An while conduct­
And that this effort, sustained for twenty­ing these classes•. in the company of 
three years, demonstrated the stamina and Cardinal O'Hara and Orestes Brownson 
resourcefulness of his community. ~ho are buried within the Church, I've 

always felt a dull.sense of violation, if not indecency at least indelicacy, at dissecting the fabric of this holy place. 
Among the more notable furnishings of the Church are the two old altars. The distinguished, double-faced high altar and tower tabernacle were made in Paris by the ateliers of Froc-Robert for the Church of St. Etierrne at Beauvais. They were brought to Philadelphia for the Centennial Expos­ition of 1876 and mysteriously acquired by Fr. Sorin for his new church. In the Mary Chapel, directly behind the sanctuary (choir), is an exuberant, gilded 17th century Baroque altar from the bottega of Bernini. This great sculptor-architect designed the baldachino and the colonnad­ed piazza of St. Peter's in Rome. Fr. Sorin purchased the altar in Rome and shippeJ it to Indiana where it remains a very rare artifact. 
In a niche above the Bernini altar is a particularly graceful statue of Notre Dame, a gift in 1886 from the Empress Engenie, wife of Napoleon III. An old issue of the South Bend News Times reports that the very day Fr. Corby had the first telephone installed on campus, workmen in the Mary Chapel stole . the gold jeweled crown from the statue. Upon Discovery of the loss, Fr. Corby called South Bend on his ne~ gadget wftere upon the police apprehended the thieves at the railroad station and recover­ed the crown I 
From 1875 to 1882 the visiting Italian painter, Luigi Gregori, labored overhead in the vaults of the Church. His heavy 
Mannerist style and mode of form descrip­tion were ill suited to the ~othic style but
ROBERT LEADER 
*Observer 

· Features 

restored during the recent renovation. 
Today, in their dark unintelligibility, they 
add a peculiar sense of enrichment and 
elaboration. 
I am, perhaps, overly critical of the 
stained glass in the Church because of my 
experience with the medium and because 
of the often heard opinion that the windows 
-are the chief glory of the Church. They are 
no such thing-even if one is wearing 
sunglasses! The windows were fabricated 
in Le Mans, France and installed in the 
Church in 1873. Stylistically they repre­
sent a period of low repute to contemporary 
glass designers. The natural beauty of the 
glass was smothered under a heavy patina 
of paint. The design is overly representa­
tional and didactic. It must be regretted 
that these glaziers from LeMans did not try 
to "revive" the superb 12th century 
windows in the cathedral of their own 
town. 
Surely, the most notable image in the 
Church is Ivan Mestrovic's Roman Pieta, 1942-46, which was first exhibited at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New york City. In 1955 Fr. Hesburgh appointed Mestrovic a Distinguished Professor and Scuptor-in~residence at Notre Dame. In time, the Pleta was loaned to the univers­ity. The great stone was trucked over the road from New york and placed in Sacred -Heart Church. It was deemed dangerous to move such-a great weight over the old floors of the Church so it was decided to open up one of the chevet chapels; that is 
remove part of the exterior wall. 
One morning, during this period, I was 
in the Church with the Maestro (Mestrovic 
was always addressed in this manner.) As 
we arrived the masons were completing the 
closing up of the exterior brick wall of the 
chapel through which the sculpture had 
been introduced into the Church. The 
great white marble was now irretrievably a 
part of its setting. The Maestro prowled 
around checking sight lines and consider­
ing the lighting. Finally, he beckoned that 
we should return to O'Shughnessy. As we 
were leaving, he looked back at his Pieta 
and with a twinkle said to me, "Now, 
Leader, that's what I call a permanent 
loan!" A few years later, in 1962, 
Mestrovic's funeral was held in Sacred 
Heart. 
Of little notice, but of some interest is, 


the East decorated portal. It is vaguely reminiscent of the great sculptured trasept porches found on French Gothic cathedrals. Ours is pathetically modest and incomplete memorial to Notre Dame's war dead. (I find it a sad irony that there have always been funds and the will to honor our pantheon of athletic heroes with plaque, cup, and structure, while those heroes of the Republic who have given their lives have never been granted proper recogni­tion in their collegiate church. This portal is a constant reminder of this serious omission.) 
The period of renovation in 1968 could have been a perilous time for the old Church. In a day when numerous architectural mutilations and senseless amputations were being performed in the name of Vatican II, our Church was spared. 
The renovation of Sacred Heart Church was intelligently and sensitively carried out. The original character of the architecture was preserved, indeed, often heightened, while much of the clap-tra­and sentimental bric-a-brac of earlier times 

was removed. The choir stalls vanished as did the ponderous Communion rail thus opening up the sanctuary and ambulatory to the people. Wisely the high altar and tabarnacle were left in place while a new low altar facing the people was placed under the crossing, creating a unity of liturgical and architectural focii. The only real regret was the destruction of the great suspended pulpit. It was truly an authoritarian thing and surely full of bombast; it took a real preacher to fill that space) )t has obviously become an embarrassment and was pulled down by men who could not or would not measure up to its demands. It was reconstituted in to the present lecturn of unsure proportio­ns This act would weem to reflect the current evolution of the sermon into the ·homily. And lastly, of course, the Church was catpeted wall-to-wall in typical Ameri­can aybarite fashion. (It boggles the mind to visualize wall-to-wall carpeting in Char­tres of Amiens, but then, we Americans would install florescent lights in the Pantheon and an Otis elevator in the Tower 
of London if given a chancel) 
It is said that a house is not a home until 
it has truly been lived in. Our old Church is 
worn. It has been stained with the patina 
of generations of faculty, students and 
alumni. Their fears and doubts, their 
sorrows and joys are part of its texture. 
Their prayers seem to have permeated the 
very structure. 
As in all progressive educational institu­
tions, we are justly proud of our panelled 
seminar rooms, of our air conditioned 
athletic facilities, and of our nuclear 
laboratories. But these can be found in any 
good university. What makes Notre Dame 
different is Sacred Heart Church: the 
authentic HONEST-TO-GOD Notre Dame: 
the Notre Dame of the Real Presence: the 
Notre Dame of Fr. Sorin and all Mary's 
entrepreneurs. Tell yourself you are more 
at ease in the hall chapels which have often 
been transformed into multi-purposed 
space -space that has a tendency to 
confuse the Sacred Dance with studnt 
ribaldry. 

Spend some time with God in Sacred 
Heart Church. The mute walls may speak 
to you! This is a special place, it could 
mark you forever. This is the Institutional 
Church -don't settle for less. 

------~-------­


P.O.BoxQ 
clerics, faith without works is dead. 2?" (O'Gill will not believe me, prefer­· As it turned out, my underclass­
Sport'S 

ring Kerby as his theologian.) man friend was not as well read as I Otherwise, in the shadow of those was. He had not, believe it or not, pearly gates, the parakeet, Basil 
read "A Guide to Student Life"
has Guts 
cover to cover and was not familiar

the Great, having left St. Peter's 
with Article II, Section 2. In

shoulder, may end up as a handful
Dear Editor: addition, he had not been out to his

-uf feathers in the teeth of an
I, for one, would like to congratu­car that week to find the printed
unborn again representative of a
late fhe 'Observer sports depart­sheets which reminded students to
breed that listens to neither the
ment for running Chip Spina's move their cars before the football
Law nor the Prophets.
column, "The 4:49 Game". I games. In short, he simply did not would like to first thank Chip for know he was supposed to move his 
[Rev.] Robert F. Griffin, C.S.C. car.
"having the guts" to be frank and 
The University Chaplain 
And since he didn't know, he had direct about his assessment of ·to shell out $12.00 to pay for theSaturday's game. I would like to towing ~rvices. By the way, howthank Sports Editor Fred Herbst for much of that $12.00 does the"having the guts" to publish the Little Men Texaco station give back to Notrecolumn. Having been an editor at Dame or are you just partial toThe Observer myself, I know only 

Texaco stations? too well the pressure there is in Blue Maybe, just maybe, little men in
around here to "sugarcoat" every-. 
blue, you could warn or even ticket thing, especially the pressure from first-time offenders instead of pull­Dear Editor: Sports Information and the Athletic ing their cars off that preciousdepartment. 

I think the little men in blue asphalt.
I think that Monday's column By the way, I would like to point
masquerading as Security should
was the first time that I've seen the out Article III, Section 1-I of the
reevaluate their purpose in life. .. Why, little men in blue, do I feel 
students' attitudes adequately ref­traffic and Parking Regulations lected on the sports page, and says, "Driving or parking on the
you are out to get me? · 
frankly, I'd like to see more of it. I didn't mind you telling me to lawn or on the grass--$10 fine plus Its high time that the sports page move my car to the Green Field for damage." Then, Article II, Section 
2-H says, "The Green Field is a

catches up with the rest of the the football game. I thought may­
paper. be, just maybe, there is someone large grass-covered area ,located .. '' Once again, thanks and congrat­who nee.ds asphalt parking more Either get your wording right and describe the Green Field as an area
ulations! than I do. Even though I pay an of mud and some grass or one ofKen Girouard annual fee for that parking space your little men in blue will figu.re
Ciasso£77 and have invested a substantial out that he can, playing by your
sum into this university, if Article 
rules, fine us $10 for parking in the

II, Section 2 of the Traffic and
Darby 
Green Field on football Saturdays.

Parking Regulations tells me to move my car for home football
to Heaven 
Maureen O'Brien

games, so be it. Dear Editor, However, when my friend called I am writing on behalf of my me Saturday morning and said she cocker spaniel, Darby O'Gill, to was stuck in the mud in Green 
Erratum

thank Farther Kerby for his assur­Field, I thought maybe, just may­
be, Article II, Section 2 of the
ances that beast like Darby and the Due to errors in typing and 
dog named Poochie will indeed Traffic and Parking Regulations proof-reading two lines were drop­was not my favorite regulation at ped from Fr. Toohey's article on
inherit the Kingdom of _Heaven. 
Notre Dame. the bishops, Carter, Ford andThe forceful theology of arguments So the day went on and a friend abortion. These lines should havebased on the vision of canary's 
came to me aroung 7 p.m. and said, read:
song, parakeet's hymn, and hip­"My car was towed to a Texaco "Millions of good Catholics,pity-hoppity bunnies sweetening 

station on U.S. 31. Could you drive including not a few bishops andthe tedium of Paradise, has planted me there so I can pick up my car?" many theologians, are themselveseternal hopes of canine salvation 
Naturally, I asked why his car opposed [to a constitutional amend­both in Darby's heart and mind. had been towed. Lo and behold, he ment, while still vehemently]One letter from Bob Kerby has had violated Article II, Section 2 against abortion." been more consoling to Darby than and had not moved his car before But last year the President 
the televised evangelism crusades the game. supported [governmental federal of Billy Graham and the Oral I then said, "Impetuous fool, did funding for a reported] 300,000 Roberts Easter show. I suggest that you think you could pull a fast one abortions." Father Kerby now be kind enough on Neither-rain-nor-snow-nor­The , Observer regrets these er­to remind both Darby and Poochie wind-nor-student Security? Aren't ors and wishes to apoligize to Fr. 
you familiar with Article II, Section Toohe for them. 
that for cocker s aniels as for 
WHAT 
cJ.SE >W 
60T? 
/ 

seriously, folks~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~!!!!!!!! 
The Pop Sculptor: 
Picasso Looks Sick 
art buchwald 

(Art Buchwald was so disap-inspired to put the Ritz crackers on pointed he wasn't chosen as Pres-top of the can of Crisco,'' a lady said 
*1~d.Q~~~r,ver
The Observer is published ion of a majority of the Edito­
Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief

by students l of the Univer­rial Board. Commentaries are 
Dan Sanchez Managing Editor 

sity of Notre Dame and St. the views of their authors. 
Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed. 

Mary's College. It does not Column space is available to 
Gregg Bangs Executive Editor 

necessarily reflect the policies all members of the community, Val Zurblis Executive Editor 
of either institution. The news  and letters are encouraged to  Pat Hanifin  Editorial Editor  
is reported as accurately and  promote the free expression of  Bob Madet  Exec. News Editor  
as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opin­ varying opinions on campus.  Maureen Flynn Marti Hogan  Campus Editor St. Mary's Editor  
Business Manager Advertising Manager Photo Editor  Tom Fronczak Mike Miller Tony Chifari  Don Reimer Tim O'Reiley Fred Herbst ·  Copy Editor Features editor Sports Editor  
Production Manager  Martha L. Fanning  

Thursday, September 16, 1976 
DOONESBURY 
GOVERNOR, I IAJ{){jUJ 
/..IKE. W RECOMMcNO W ~ YOU 711~APOPTION OFA : TEN-POINT PROSPeRITY 
o PRIJ6RAM. FIRST, I IAJOULP.. "' 
by Garry Trudeau 
MR. RUM!ifl, I PONT 7HINK Ya'l UNPCRSTANP. I II/ANTA IW6RAM THAT 
REFtECT5 77£ 81l1JA[) A5­PIRAT/ONS OF 7H& AMeRI­CAN l'tfYJU, NfJT fNI/M&Mffl} SP&­
C/F/03 orSOCIAL 
_.. £N(jJI/CCRS! 

ident Ford's running mate that he has decided to take a few weeks off. He left behind some of his all-time favorite columns.) 
One day the Canadian author­ities refused to allow 80 wooden crates, which looked like cartons of Brillo soap pads, Kellogg's corn flakes and Mort's apple juice, to go through customs as works of art. The cartons, painted by American pop artist Andy Warhol, were not, said the Canadians, works of art but merchandise, and subject to $4,000 duty. 
I thing the Canadians are all wet. A few days after the incident in Canada, I went down to the supermarket to buy some groceries for my wife. On the way home I stopped in at an art gallery where they were holding a pop art exhibit. Unfortunately, the carton of gro­ceries got heavy, and I left them on the fl9or. 
Then, being so moved by what I saw, I left the gallery and went home. 
"Where are the groceries?" my wife demanded. 
"Oh, my gosh," I cried, "I left them at the art gallery." 
"Well, you'd better get them if you want any supp~r tonight." 
I rushed back to the gallery, but I was too late. The groceries had been awarded first prize in the show. 
"We've been looking all over for 
you," the gallery owner said. "Why didn't you sign your work of art?" 
"It's not a work of art. It's my dinner for tonight." 
The gallery roared with ap­preciative laughter. "He's not only a great sculptor, but he has humor as well," a judge said. 
"You can see that in his work," another judge added. "Notice how the bottle of Heinz catsup is leaning against the can of Camp­bell's pork and beans." 
I'll never know how he was to her escort. 
"It's pure genius," the escort replied. "Notice the way the Del Monte can of peaches is lying on its side. Even Warhol wouldn't have gone that far." 
"I think the thing that really won the prize for him was the manner in which he crushed the Sara Lee Cheesecake on the bottom of the box." 
"It makes Picasso look sick." 
"Look," I s11id, "I'm very grate­ful for all these honors, but my wife is waiting for this stuff and I have to get it home." 
''Get it home?" the gallery owner said in amazement. "I've just sold it to that couple over there for $1,500." 
"The groceries cost me only $18," I replied. 
"It isn't the groceries. It's what you did with them. You have managed to put more meaning into a box of Rinso than Rodin put into 'The Thinker.' Nobody will ever be able to look at a can of Franco­American spaghetti without think­ing of you. You have said with this bag of groceries in one evening what Rembrandt tried to way in 1,000 paintings. " 
I blushed modestly and accepted his check. That night I took my wife out to dinner, and the next day I went back to the supermarket and bought another bag of groceries, much more expensive than the previous ones, which I immediately took to the gallery. 
But the reviews were lousy. "Success has gone to his head," said Washington's leading art cri tics. "Where once he was able to produce simple jars of cat food and peanut butter in a wild, reckles~, I-don't-give-a-damn-manner, he ts now serving up elegant cans of mushrooms and mock turtle soup. The famous touch is gone and all that is left is a hodgepodge of tasteless groceries." 
(c) 1976, Los Angeles Times 

Thursday, September 16, 1976 the observer 
Fr. James T. Burtchaell 
In Loco Parentis--life With(out) Father 
"in loco parentis" is a phrase that Is the center of much controversy here at Notre Dame. To most students It suggest rigid rules Imposed by the administration whihc "interfere" in their "private" Uves. It is also commonly associated with Fr. James Burtchaell, University provost, Its most articulate spokesman. Yet few students have read Bwtchaell's interpretation of in loco 
·parentis which appeared in Notre Dame Magazine four years ago [Aug., 1972]·-and interpretation much different from the usual student understanding. 
Since in loco parentis will continue to be controversial It is best that both sides of the argument know what the other Is talking about. So, in the interest of clarity and in the hope of sparking some rational debate on how Notre Dame should be run, The Observer reprints Burtchaell's article. 
We thank Fr. Bwtchaell and Mr. Ron Parent of Notre Dame Magazine for permission to do so. 
Time was when universities and differently than its despisers. It need colleges proposed to exercise parental not imply, for example, that the student authority over their students. That is a juvenile, while his teacher is adult. was a time, be it said, when every-Admittedly, when one says "parents and thing about parenthood itself seemed children'' the imagination tends to picture somehow less ominous: when "family a couple in thejr twenties or thi~ies, planning" meant planning to have one; with the customary two or three children, when childbirth could be contemplated probably at elementary school age or without the aid of Spack; and when young-younger. But surely parenthood is a sters could generally count on growing lifelong identity, and the parent-child up with a single set of pa.rents. But relationship remains asymmetrical today surrogate parenthood, like its natural throughout all the long seasons of seasons model, has fallen upon hard time. of its maturation. This same young 
Few today acquiesce in the notion of couple will still be parents-and, please a university's standing in loco parentis, "in God, actively parents-when they are in the parents' stead." The last decade their eighties and their children are has seen this once traditional legal grandparents. Indeed, parenthood does doctrine virtually extinguished by the not lapse when one's offspring move onto federal and state courts. The results their own. It really comes into its own have gone in both directions. In some only when one's children are adults. 
cases, students have successfully re-Nor need that parent-child relation sisted peremptory dismissal; the courts always be colored by authority. One of the held that university authorities were frustrations of being mother and father is obliged to state their rules more clearly that so much of the early experience of and administer them with due process. families demands firm parental control. In other cases, students have failed to When comes the time for tearing loose, win damages claimed for negligence for taking wing, the season for the since the colleges were no longer children to gather their own privacy and expected to exercise such a careful vi-autonomy about themselves -in short, gilance over them. Hitherto, nearly when comes the end of command and all of these cases have dealt with public control -so many fathers and mothers institutions, and the courts have, with feel th~ir parenthood lifted from them rising consistency, been holding that the and are at a loss to negotiate new ways student-school relationship should be that of· dealing with sons and daughters. of a citizen to any state agency, just Yet parenthood should have a fuller as professors in state schools are in-• abundance of gifts to share than that: creasingly likened to civil service em-much of what parents can bestow is ployees. Private schools will not be only availabl anyway in those years 
'And why should a university educator not stand in the same situation of total concern: in loco parentis?' 

Fr. James Burtchaell discusses the role of administrators and 
faculty at a university which adopts a spiritual, not legalistic goal of 
in loco parentis. to encounter the same disappointment, domestic varietals. Sometimes we frown but we publicly profess and hold ourselves too often when encouragement is needed. accountable for a personal regard for We can be too protective or not demanding our students. I like to think that we enough, or lose our tempers, and (worse) live up to this commitment better even our wits, and we can give in to the strain than many of _those few universities that and fatigue and simply not give a accept the same charge, and that we do damn. But there are .times when the it in some special and precious "'ays work goes will, and we sense somehow that make our tradition distinctive and just when ·to push, wh~n to sink, when to deeply memorable. commend, when to laugh, when to ridi­
cule, when to listen, when to explode.
To assume to stand in loco parentis is to share the chancy fortune of any Particularly in these years when student father or mother of an intelligent young rights, and dignity, and prerogatives have man or woman. Just as at home, in been struggled for and enlarged, one of a residential college there is the re­the slur words for the over-authoritarian 

curring struggle to determine who is teacher or administrator is ''paternalistic.''

really master of the house. It is no I hope the word can be purged of this good simply pounding the table, reminding unpleasant meaning, for so many of us the students that they are on our in the profession do feel that fatherhood turf, and showing them the door if is in our blood, and while acknowledgingthey fail to abide by our rules. On the great risk it presents, don't reallythe other hand, little challenge and want to be ashamed of it. 

slight growth will ensue if older and younger scholars simply turn their backs We tend to remain in correspondence on one another. Like parents, academics with many alumni -and this mail care about more in their students than continually impresses me with the similar­they can control and must often forego ity of fortune between teacher and command in favor of persuasion and parent. One young man who had liveddebate. Often, but not always. There is an 

in our hall (Dillon) wrote recently after asymmetrical exchange: teachers always his first year in grad school. have new insights afforded them by their junior colleagues; yet the whole As you predicted, there Is no place academic enterprise would not exist Uke Notre Dame. The University save by the common belief that teachers of ----------Is such a sterile, see, hear, and know more and perceive Ufeless institution -more of a parking indefinitely immune to this gro~ng legal tradition and to the philosophy behind it, surely alien to that older view of the campus as a domestic household. 
tv1any university officials seem pleased to shake the onus of supervision that was theirs in loco parentis. The issue of room visitation 'between the sexes provides a contemporary illustration. When several Oxford colleges announced this year that they would admit their first female undergraduates next fall, Hertford College explained that coeds would lodge in no special wing of college buildings. Asked if that would not lead to cohabitation, the master of Hertford stated emphatically that it was none of his concern. The former president of Parsons College has recently founded another proprietary school in the East with open dorm visitation. Asked ·the same question, he snorted that he was running a college, not a church. 
The most vociferous dismantlers of the In loco parentis policy, of course, have been the students themselves. Entering into the university often relieves strained relations at home between paren­tal authority and the striving for inde­pendence by the child. He does not leave home in pursuit of new authoritarian adults, but to breathe new adult freedom for himself. Curriculum requirements, disciplinary rules, university decision­making bodies without student involve­ment -all can seem disconcerting to a young man or woman whose driving personal need at the time is to assert his or her own arrival at adult freedom. 
Well, despite its unpopularity and un­timeliness, the notion of senior members 
of the university standing in loco parentis 
to their undergraduate students is one that 
I should like to sustain. 
While standing for the formula, I suppose I shape its meaning somewhat 
'We are terribly vulnerable and we do our work for love and not for gain. 
when their children are no longer de­
pendent uupon them. It is a mutual 
devastation if at the very age when the 
parent has the richest wisdom and perspec­
tive to share with his child, both have 
likely shut each other off in the 
belief that the family's interchange is 
at an end now that they have quit 
the same roof. 
A parent, then, at whatever age or 
maturity, no matter what his degree of 
control, authority, or involvement, retains 
a total concern for every feature of his 
child's life. 
And why should a university educator 
not stand in the same situation total 
concern: in loco parentis? We have the dubious privilege of entering the scene at exactly that awkward and restless period of breakaway (a matter of years rather than the crises of a moment), when young men and women of 18-22 years' age are renegotiating their relations with their parents. They are no longer at their . command, nor have they yet cast off lines completely. It is an ambiguous 
time, and strained, and quarrelsome, 
and critically influential 
Bear in. mind that I speak specifically of ~ur stand at Notre Dame. At virtually all universities in Europe and Latin America, at most state schools in North America, and now in many of our priyate colleges too, the senior scholars decline and often repudiate all active concern and certainly all responsibility for the personal growth and integration of the students. The interchange is specifically academic. Students may be fortunate enough to find one or another professor or administrator with a shrewd eye and a giving heart for them, but will more often encounter resentment if they impinge on faculty .time or seek their attention beyond what is statutorily required. At Notre Dame it is possible 
more deeply than their students . 
Like a patent, a stringently effective teacher will be appreciated only in retro­spect ... and will often have to do without the satisfaction of hearing much by way of thanks. Like a parent, a teacher invests his mind and heart in the growth of the students he loves, and can only hope that the seed he plants is sound and the soil sweet enough for future fruit. One always teaches with one's heart in one's mouth, and doesn't always succeed. But then again he often does. 
We are terribly vulnerable and we do our work for love and not for gain none quite so vulnerable, 'I imagine, as those who lay aside natural parenthood to give their whole soul and strength to this other begetting and have such single-minded desire that these, their sons and daughters, succeed. 
Our vices and virtues are the common lot than a university. The transition from a private, residential university and , relatively small enroUment to a pubUc commuter university with an enroUment of about 28,000, was an experience even at the ripe old age of twenty-two. More and more I appreciate the commJtment to a university community that Notre 

Dame has made. I sound like an "alum," already! 
Hopetully every set of parents receives a letter something like this after their own son or daughter has moved out of the home into other circumstances. 
The second part of 
this article will appear 
in tommorow's Observer. 

Police advise caution for Georgina St. area 
(Continued from page 1) Assaults infrequent Georgina St. is included in the area listed by police as "Tract 10," one of the highest burglary rate tracts in the city. Included in this section are Nickies, Corby's, the Library and many student resi­dences. Most of these student houses are inspected by Notre Dame's Off-
Campus Housing Office. This ser­vice includas physical statistics of the house, a crime prevention checklist for burglaries, informa­tion regarding landlords and other information about neighborhoods. According to Darlene Palma, stu­dent director of off-campus housing, the house on Georgiana St. had not been inspected. Assaults in this area, according 
ND student mugged in park 
by Chris Datzman Staff Reporter 
A NotreDamestudent was robbed late Saturday night while walking through Leeper Park in South Bend. 
Frank Byrne, a sophomore, was returning from a party to his home on Marquette Ave. Being unfamil­iar with the area, Byrne took a wrong turn into the park. As he appraoched the outlet, a car pulled up and three men jumped out and grabbed him. While two of the men held him, the third struck Byrne in the face and took his wallet and watch. 

Police authorities stated, "people see someone there late at night and assume they're there to buy drugs. Muggers think they'll be carrying large sums of money.'' 
Byrne's wallet was recovered Wednesday, but five dollars, his Notre dame I.D. and drivers license were missing. His season football ticket was still in the wallet. 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Sen. Vance Hartke responded with anger Wednesday to a report that his daughter. Sandra, had held jobs requiring little in the way of a regular work schedule with firms that benefitted from his votes. 
"All I can say is this," said Hartke in a statement released by his office. "My opponents" can take all the shots they want at Vance Hartke but. by damn, leave my children out of it.'' 
He was referring to a story by syndicated columnist Jack Ander­son which reported that Sandra Hartke "came to work only when she felt like it'' and sometimes had her checks mailed to her home ''while her father tended to their employers' interests in the Sen­ate." 
Anderson reported that Sandra. 

32. was employed at $10,000 a year by the Brotherhood of Railway and Airline Clerks from 1967-1971. The union listed Hartke as casting votes it recommended 114 times against only 17 times for measures it opposed. Anderson said. 
Sandra Hartke also worked for Travelers Insurance Co. at $12,000 a year from 1971 until she left a few months ago when the company insisted she follow a regular work schedule, Anderson reported. 
A company spokesman said San­dra hartke had simply lost interest in her job, while Anderson quoted he as saying she left because Travelers had wanted her "to prowl around Capitol Hill and she didn't want to do it because it would put her father in an awkward position.'' 
Anderson wrote that a spokes­man for the railway and airline clerks union said Sandra Hartke had a record of excessive absences -which she attributed to medical reasons-but was especially good at "locating her father quickly" when a union official wished to speak with him. 
She also campaigned for Sen. Hartke while on the union payroll in 1970, Anderson said. 
Sen. Hartke. denied to the col­umnist any conflict of interest and both Hartke and Sandra said the senator had not obtained the jobs for her. 
Hartke's statement said his daughter had worked most of her adult life to save enough money to 
Soph class plans activities 
by Joe Gill Staff Reporter 

Notre Dame sophomore class picnic held in conjunction with St. Mary's and plans for a class tee-shirt were discussed last night 
at a meeting of the Sophomore Adivsory Council. according to John Ryan, sophomore class vice­president. 
The picnic is scheduled for this Sunday. Designs for the tee-shirt. should be submitted to hall repre­sentatives before Wednesday, Sept. 29. 
Other activites include a class party in Michigan on Oct. and a formal on Nov. 5 or 6. The party date is definite and details will be announced later. The formal date is contingent upon the number of conflicting hall formals. 
Ryan stressed the effectiveness of the Advisory Council in terms of I'adership and organization of class related activites. "The soph­omre officers are finding the Advi­sory Council very helpful in plan­ning class activities and finding out what the class wants to do," he stated. "We are very pleased with the interest the council members are taking.'' 
The sophomore hall representa­
tives for the coming year are as 
follows: Alumni-Jim Martin; Ba­
din-Patti DeCoste, Breen-Philips­
Ruth Hohl, Cavanaugh-Kevin 
Buckley, Dillon-Tim Beaty, Farley~ 
Laurie McNulty, Fisher-Chuck del 
Grande, Flanner-Bob Bellissimo, 
Grace-Tony Pace, Holy Cross-Bob 
Fontana, Howard-Tim Cisar, Kee­
nan-Pete Curcio, Lewis-Jan Pilar­
ski, Lyons-Sharon Prindiville, 
Morrissey-Ben Elliot, Pangborn­
Tony Summers, St. Ed's-Greg 
McCann, Stanford-Jim Canfield, 
Sorin-Dane Taylor, Walsh-Terri 
Pucevich and Zahm-Bruce Boivin. 
Services planned for Episcopalians 
A celebration of the Eucharist according to the rite of the Episco­pal Church will take place every Thursday at 4:15p.m. in the chapel of Grace Hall. The celebrant will be the Rev. Leone! L. Mitchell, a priest of the Episcopal Church who is a member of the theology faculty. 
to Chief Molnar of the South Bend I Police, are very isolated cases. 
"In the past we have had incidents in that area with students coming and going to the taverns, but our big problem is burglaries," Molnar said. "If students do go back and forth, they should do so in groups of two or more. The later the hour, the greater the danger. This is just common sense." 
Molnar advised students who run into any difficulty to contact the police as soon as possible by calling 
911. He said that if there were more incidents there would be 
more patrols, but "when the population increases by 8000 in two weeks (the opening of schoo~) there is a greater chance of crime." 
A bartender at Nickie's, also a resident of the area, described the atmosphere as "a little tense." 
"I really don't like walking down any of the streets except for the main ones," he said. "I feel the police have been very good. There's only so much they can do. It's not a matter of protection by common sense.'' ''Some of the kids 

Hartke accused of political favors to keep daughter on payrolls 
start her own business, and that if she had even worked for companies as far away Europe or Spokane, Washington, "people would say she got the job because of her father.'' 
A Hartke spokesman also cited an instance when Sandra Hartke had been interviewedlO years ago for a job with the U.S. Transporta­tion Department but failed to get it after Hartke "specifically told us the interviewer and agency to consider Sandy on the merits." 

are very inconsiderate walkingbetween houses, yelling and litter­ing," the bartender added. "There needs to be some mutual respect. This is my home too so I don't like the trash. These kids don't do it at home so they shouldn't do it here," he stated. Another bartender agreed that there have been very few cases of violence. "I've been here for four years and have never had any trouble, he said. "Some of the' neighbors want to see this place closed because of the noise and 

trash. We try to keep it cleaned up 
and recently switched from plastic 
cups to glassware," he added. 
Although all reports indicate that 

assaults in ths area are infrequent, 
students are advised to practice 
caution when going out at night. 
Notre Dame Security Director Arthur Pears said, "I would never walk that area alone, male or female. I recommend this to all students. This area is a fringe area and a high crime area, particularly at night." 
SMC SOCIAL COMM· 
PRESENTS 
AMERICAN GRAFFITTI 
15 THURS SEPT 7:15 and 9:30 O'LAUGHLIN AUD-SMC ADMISSION $1.25 
N. D. Karate Club 
Master instructor: Raymond Sell, 1973 World Champion 
TONIGHT ONLY ! --$5 off membership fee. --Free training manual. 
6:00 to 8:00 p.m. in Wrestling Room, ACC. For more information contact Jake Thomson at 1846. 
The Notre Dame Student Union Concert COmmission presents 
IN CONCERT 

Bruce Springsteen and theE Street Street Band 
Saturday October 9 

AT THE NOTRE DAME ACC 
TICKETS ON SALE MONDAY SEPT 10 

Available at the ACC Box Office, the Student Union Ticket Office, and all ACC ticket outlets. Umit 10 tickets per person. All tickets are front­stage. No lines before 6pm Sunday, September 19. 
$6.50 ~ $5.50 


Thursday, September u~, 1976 the observer 
ND,SMC coordinate job placement services 






321 S. Main Downtown Next to Indiana Bell 288-1681 Open 12-6 dally 
0

I I • • ' ~ , t f I -' I I I I ' ' I ; • I ' ' ; : , t I " 
10 the observer Thursday, September 16, 1976 
Two cyclists treck long road to Buenos Aires 
Buenos Aires -Two American students have completed a Chicago to Buenos Aires bicycle trek after 10,000 miles, nearly three years of adventure and 54 flat tires. 
In Mexico, thieves stole one of their two bicycles, nearly forcing them to call off the trip. · They recovered the bike, only to have one of the students fall ill with hepatitis, requiring a long post­ponement. 
I 
After resuming the trip, they pedaled almost uneventfully through Central and South Ameri­ca. until they hit Argentina where they were mistaken for guerrillas and nearly arrested. 
But on the whole, Jack Foreman, 

25 of Pittsburgh and Grant Wag­
l ner, 23, of Chicago, said people were hospitable in the 12 Latin­American countries they went
t through. Also, the two Univesity of Chica­go English literature majors said they became fluent conversation­alists in Spanish after starting from home without knowing any. 
"We did it only because we wanted to see the world.'' they said in an interview shortly after their arrival in Buenos Aires last month. 
They left Chicago on Nov. 4, 1973, riding French-made racing bicycles bought for $240 each. On the first day they traveled six hours, an average daily cycling time they kept up throughout most of the trip and set up camp for the night at a surburban Chicago cemetery. 
They entered Mexico more than six months later and rested for almost a week in Veracruz at the 
home of a  restaurant  owner  who  
gave them free  room  and board,  
Wagner reported.  

''As we were getting ready to leave, my bike disappeared from 
London 'bloody dry' 
as water taps cut off 
London -Water taps in private homes were catoff around the clock in parts of southwest England yesterday in the toughest measure so far in fighting Britain's worst drought in 500 years. Annoyed householders began trekking with buckets to hydrants in the streets. 
The measure will affect some 160,000 persons in Devon County by friday. Many Devon house­holders complained the i!l4efinite
•l 
<;utoff would have been unneces­sary if the local water authority had taken action earlier. 
Workmen began the water cutoff at 8 a.m. and by Friday night some 30 towns in the area will be · affected. The main ones are Okehampton, Holsworthy and Tavistock. 
Work also began on cutting off! parts of Bideford, Northam, West­ward Ho, Apledore, Barnstaple,' Fremington, Braunton and Ilfra­combe. All of these are to be on hydrants by Friday night. 
The measure took effect despite heavy rains in the area and throughout much of Britain over the past few days. But a spokes­
... 
man for the South Western Water Authority said, "The rain has fallenheavily insome parts, but the ground is just like a dry sponge. It's not getting into the reser­voirs." 
nne cent piece about the good old days of penny inaugurated in 1909.
Until now the people most af-_;.;.,;.,;,;.;.;...;..._______~--..;..---~-..;.;.;;...;;;,;,;;;.;;...;;~~..;,;:......;~~;.;.:;;.;.;;;.;;;..;,;;:..;.;;.;;.;..;...____ 
fected by the drought have been the million or more residents of South Wales who have had their watershut offfor 17 hours a day -2 
p.m. to 7 a.m. -for the past month. South Yorkshire County in northeastern England is also criti­cally short of water. Some 750,000 residents of the area were due to start getting their water from hydrants this week but the recent heavy rains gave them a reprieve. John Brown, chairman of the Yorkshire Water Authority, said in Leeds that despite the rains a ''knife-edge situation'' still exists in the southwestern part of the county, which includes such towns as Wakefield, Dews bury, Rudder­field and Halifax. ''The decision as to whether we 
start operating on standpipes hy­drants or ,iive anoi.ber rc:Ptieve will 
oe maae· on Monday." . 
St. Mary's graduate joins Century Center staff 
The Civic Center Board of Man­agers has announced the addition of a new member to the Century Center staff. Ginna Anderson, a 1972 St. Mary's graduate, will act as Community Publicity Coordin­ator, working closely with John Everitt, Executive Director, and John Sheehan, Program Manager. 
Primary responsibilities of the position will be to create and direct the publicity and promotion for events sponsored by Century Cen­ter. Presently a major area of focus is to encourage community partici­pation in Festival '77, a series of events to take place at the Morris Civic in South Bend. Another major responsibility is to form and super­vise a corps of volunteers for Century Center. 
Anderson majored in Spanish at St. Mary's and spent a year abroad studying at New York University in Madrid, Spain. From 1973 to 1975 she taught Spanish in Janesville, Wis., and participated actively in the Public Relations Committee for Jamesville Education Association. 
Most recently she worked in the bilingual Latin American area of the International Sales Department 
~ for Motorola Inc. Communications Divison in Schaumburg, Ill. Her responsibilities there included pre­paration of sales proposals and distribution of promotional litera­tur... to customers in Latin America. She and her husband Louie, a native of South Bend and graduate of Notre Dame, returned to the city in April. "I am really thrilled to join the staff at Century Center and hope to make a significant contribution to 
its successful opening," said Anderson of her new job. 
Anderso~t's first assignment will be to coordinate the sales and volunteer program for Michiana Festival '77. Festival subscriptions 
are currently on sale, with the first r 
event scheduled on Saturday, Oct. 
9 at 7:30p.m. 
Additional information on ticket 
sales, subscription discounts or 
opportunities to usher or volunteer 
time for the Festival may be 
obtained by calling the Festival 
office at 284-9711, or by writing 
Festival '77, c/0 306 S. Notre Dame 
Ave., South Bend, Indiana 46617. 
Church laws equ_al/y applicable 
The House of Bishops voted 95 to 
61 Wednesday at the Episcopal 
legislative convention to make 
church laws 'equally applicable' to 
men and women where they con­
cern admitting candidates to the 
holy orders of priest and bishop. 
The proposal was expected to be 
taken up today by the House of 
Deputies, which is considered more \ 
hostile to the proposal. 
If the House of Deputies ap­
proves the resolution, it would 
ordinarily go into effect at the end 
of this year. However, another 
proposal would make the change 
effective immdiately to coincide 
with the Canadian start of the 
pr,actice. 
In recent years the church has 1 
been in turmoil over the issue. ·' 
Fifteen Episcopal women were j 
ordained in 1974 and 1975 without the living room ... the owner told us he thought thieves had taken it." 
They reported the loss to police, and when the bike was not recov­ered after several days they went to Mexico City and told of their plight in radio, television and newspaper interviews. 
Wagner continued "A Mexico City bike manufacturer announced publicly that he would give us a bike forfree ... When we got there hundreds of photographers and cameramen were waiting. We posed with the manufacturer and this incredible 'superbike' which must have cost more than $1,000. 
"But when the photographers left, the manufacturer took the nice bike away and gave us a cheap one instead, not strong enough for the trek." 
They sold the cheap bike, he said, and planned to use the money as a reward for the return of the stolen bike. But when they got back to Veracruz the stolen bike had reappeared near the house from whick it had been taken and no reward was needed. 

T)Je next day Foreman con­tracted hepatitis and had to e flown home to a hospital. Two months later, in July 1974, they returned to Veracruz by plane and restarted. 
''Throughout most of our trip we slept in churches, cemeteries and on the road," said Wagner. "But at other times many people would help us and we stayed at their homes ... " 
Now they are planning to return home. On Bikes? "This time we are flying," Fore­man said 
Elimination of penny requested 
Washington (AP) -Remember penny candy, the penny wight machine, penny parking meters and penny stocks? 
Inflation has led most people to toss their pennies in jars or desk drawers, stuff them in piggy banks or let them mount up quietly in the cracks behind the sofa's cushion. Becuase the truth is, a penny
goes much farther today than it did just 10 years ago . Y<'ll l:an carry one around for weeks and never find .;nything it will bu_y. 
So a government-sponsored stu­dy is recommending that the U.S. Mint eliminate tl.e 
by 1980 The study, made for the government by Research Triangle Institute, says pennies are too c:xpensive to m:>ke and, besides, since they are so hard to spend, 
people squireel them awawy in-
ste~d of spending them. 
;i also recommended replacing half dollars with a new, smaller $1 coin· 
The loss of the penny, n·, ;nstay of the U.S. monetary systeJ,• since its beginning, could be the ca.1se of a major crisis in the English 
Most references made to pennies these days are in conversations 

candy which is now a nickle or, or 
penny matches now two cents, 
penny stocks now extinct or penny 
parking meter; now museum 
pieces. 
Without the penny, penny ante poker ,yould become more expen­sive, mavbe turning into nickle ant~ poker, and it would take at least a nickle for your thoughts. 
But for fans of the 16th president the big issue may be that eliminat­ing the penny would eliminate Abe Lincoln from coinage for the first time since the Lincoln penny was 
UNITED STATES READING LAB OFFERS SPEED READING COURSE AT NOTRE DAME 
United States Reading Lab will offer a 4 
week course in speed reading to a limited 
number of qualified people at Notre 
Dame. 
This recently developed method of instruction is the most innovative and ef­fective program available in the United States. 
Not only does this famous course reduce your time in the classroom to just one class per week for 4 short weeks but it also includes an advanced speed reading course on cassette tape so that you can continue to improve for the rest of your life. In just 4 weeks the average student should be reading 4-5 times faster. In a few months some students are reading 20-30 times faster attaining speeds that approach 6000 words per minute. In rare instances speeds of up to 13,000 wpm have been documented. 
Our average graduate should read 7-10 times faster upon completion of the course with marked improvement in comprehension and concentration. 
For those who would like additional 
information,· a series of free, one hour, 
orientation lectures have been schedules. 
At these free lectur~s the course will be 
explained in complete detail, including 
classroom procedures, instruction meth­
ods, class schedule and a special 1 time 
only introductory tuition that is less than 
one-half the cost of similar courses. You 
must attend any of the free meetings for 
information about Notre Dame classes. 
These orientations are . open to the 
public, above age 14 (persons under 18 
should be accompanied by a parent if 
possible). 
If you have always wanted to be a speed reader but found the cost prohibi­tive or the course too time consuming ... now you can! Just by attending 1 evening per week for 4 short weeks you can read 7 to 10 times faster, concentrate better and comprehend more. 

If you are a student who would like to make A's insiP.ad of B's or C's or if you are a bush ~s~ person who wants to stay ,abreast of lodJy's everchanging acceler­ating worid then this course is an absolute necessity. 
These free special one-hour lectures will be held at the following times and P!aces. 
NOTRE DAME MEETINGS 
Tuesday: Sept. 21, at 6:30 p.m. and again at 8 :30 p.m. Wednesday: Sept. 22, at 6:30 p.m. and again at 8:30 p.m. Thursday: Sept. 23, at 6:30 p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. Friday: Sept. 24, at 6:30p.m. and again at8:30 p.m. 
Sunday: Sept. 26, at 2:30p.m. and again at 5:30p.m. Monday: Sept. 27, at6:30 p.m. and again at8:30 p.m. 
TWO FINALMEETINGS 
Tuesday: Sept. 28, at 6:30 p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. 
THESE MEETINGS WILL BE HELD AT NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR CONTIN­UING EDUCATION 
If you are a businessman, student, housewife or executive this cause, which took 5 years of intensive research to develop, is a must. You can read 7 -10 times faster, comprehend more, concen­trate better, and remember longer. Students are offered and additional discount. This course can be taught to tindustry or civic groups at "Group rates" upon request. Be sure to attend whichever free orientation that fits best in your schedule. 
the authorization of their bishops. ,L.--..;......;....;..;.. _ _._.______________________________. 
Schorr refuses questions Thursday,~ Sept-:_~b_e_r_1_6-'--,_19_7_6__--'t'-'-h-'-e-=---o-=--:..::b--=s'-e::....__rv-'---=e--'-r__--=1----"1 
Reporter protects his source; risks sentence 
Washington • Television reporter Daniel Schorr risked a possible jail sentence yesterday by repeatedly refusing to tell a congressional committee his source for a secret House report on U.S. intelligence activities. 
The hearings, described as a confrontation over the constitu­tional rights of the Congress to investigate vx. the rights of the press to publish news, quickly focused on the issue of who gave Schorr a copy of the classified report. 
Before a midday recess, Hous ethics committee chairman John J. Flynt Jr. warned the CBS newsman eight times that he could be sent to jail and fined for contempt of Congress for refusing to answer 
questions. Eight times, Schorr refused to answer the questions. 
"My rights to withhold my sources are protected by the First Amendment WhiCh IS absolutely essential to the free press of this country," Schorr told the commit­tee. 
He said he would not turn over his copy of the report nor his notes about the proceedings of the Select Committee, on Intelligence. To do so, Schorr said, would violate his constitutional rights and might jeopardize his source. 
schorr also refused to state whether his source was connected with Congress, the CIA or the Executive branch, what date he received a copy of the report or how many copies of it he duplicated. 
"In some 40 years of practicing journalism," Schorr said, "I have never yielded to a demand for the disclosing of a source that I had promised to ·protect I cannot do so now.'' 
Americans ultimate losers 
"To betray a confidential source would mean to dry up many future sources for many future reporters. The reporters and the news organi­zation would be the immediate losers. The ultimate losers would be the American people and their free insititutions." 
The report was published in the Village Voice, a ~New York City weekly, in February, several days after the House voted to classify the report as secret. Schorr has stated that he provided the Voice with its copy of the report. 
The committee cannot by itself convict Schorr of contemot of Congress action. The entire House would have to approve any con­tempt citation before it could be forwarded to a U.S. attorney for prosecution The maximum sen­tence on each count would be one year imprisonment and a $1,000 fine. 
Clay Felker, editor of the Village Voice and publisher of New York magizine, testified that he never talked with Schorr about the report and never asked the reporter to reveal his source. 

Aaron Latham, a senior editor for New York magazine who wrote a forward to the Village Voice edition of the intelligence report, also refused twice to answer committee questions. 
Latham's rfusal came on ques­tions asking if he knew any details surrounding Schorr's acquisition of the report. He also was warned that he faced a possible jail term for remaining silent. 
Shelly Zalaznick, who edited the intelligence document for the Voice and who is now managing editor of Forbes magazine, said he burned two copies of the report in his backyard barbecue grill after the Voice published the text of the document. 
Wanted 

Need GA til< for Purdue game; call Chris at 8336. 
Need three Purdue tix: Will pay $10 a ticket, no more (Sorry)..Call Bob at 255.8660. If not in, leave mess.Jge. 
Need two Purdue tix. Can pay ..mly $10 a ticket. How 'bout it anyway? Call Tom at 7471, or 288·8417. Leave message. 
EMERGENCY! I need 2 Purdue tickets! Please call Chris 6881. 
Need 2 GA Purdue tickets. Call 5194 SMC. 
Need 6 Oregon tickets not neces. sarily together. Call Robbie 87tl6. 
Bloomington, L.ouisville.neec ride for weekend of Sept. 18. 793l . .>ue. 
Need two GA tickets for Purdue. Call MaryKay 687 4. 
Need Purdue tickets. Call Ron 8958. 
Need Purdue tickets badly. Will pay $$$. Call Matt 1469. 
I need 2 people for interesting sales , work, car necessary, call 272·1966. 
3 GA Purdue tix needed for family . call Chaps 287·3975. 
Waitresses needed . apply in person between 2.5:30 PM daily at Vegetable Buddies. 
Need desperately 2 Purdue tickets. Call Chris at 6864. 
Mr. Leo C. Hansen is hereby announcing he is seeking a Purdue ticket. Inquire 1650. 
Needed many GA tix for any home game. Call 4l68.SMC. 
Need ride to Cincinatti area Oct. 1 will share driving and expenses. Call 1653. 
Need two Purdue tickets. Call Jim at 
277·0067. 
.. 

Need 2 Alabama tickets. Please 
help. Call Peggy: 4·4381. 
Notices 

Gay: having or expressing a joyous feeling. Gay Community of Notre Dame. P.O. Box 206. Notre Dame, Ind. 
Student Health Insurance still avail· able. For info come to Rm. 105 Infirmary or call 657 4 3 :30·4 :30 Mon. Fri. 
Flanner records now open for busi­ness. L. P. 's in stock and on ordel'". List $6.98. Our price $4.65. 8-tracks and cassettes also available. List $7 .98. Our price S5.75. Ask for prices and information on car decks and speakers, blank tapes, C.B.'s, and other accessories. Call 1492 or stop by 809 Flanner Hall. 
Building full of antiques and used turn iture at Traders Village -13000 
Block  U.  S.  20.  Mishawaka,  
255-0314.  
Morrissey  Loan  Fund  $20·150  1  

day wait. 1 percent interest due in 30 days. LaFortune Basement, M. F 11 :15-12:15. . 
Any ND·SMC student of UKRA N lA N background wishing to join the newly organized Ukranian Club call Orest at 1469 or Roman at 1374. 
Forget to pledge your Wednesday evening meals? Can still sign up until noon Friday at Student. 1\>.ctivities, 1st floor LaFortune. 
For free delivery & low prices on kegs just call Chip 288-7878. 
Will teach flute in your spare time. Call Beth . 8112 for more info. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-07 46. 
For Rent 

Students 3 bedroom apartment for rent $55 per person lease and deposits 255-3205 . 1134 Lincoln Way West. So. Bend. 
.4 bedroom house for rent in NO area. $350 plus deposit. Call Jim Zimmer, (616)445-2471, 7 a.m..4:30 p.m. 
311 North Cushing . Ready now! 3 bedroom furnished house in ex. cellent condition. Call 234-6688. 
For Rent: furnished six bedroom 
. home, two baths, fireplace, 2 blocks from Notre Dame in safe neighbor. hood. $225 a month plus utilities. Also four bedroom furnished, four blocks from Notre Dame $175 a month plus utilities. 277-3604 even. ings. 
Lost & Found 

Lost: gold watch by Trad. No band . Reward. Call Mike 3207. 
Glasses to go! Glasses to go! Glasses to go at McDonald's. But where are mine? Clear framed glasses lost in vicinity of bars. If found call Tom at 289·0114. 
HELD OVE ! FINALWEEK "HARRY AND WALTER GOTO NEW YORK" 
"AN ABSOLUTELY DAZZLING FILM -N.Y. TIMES 
· Carmen F. Zollo presents 
Ingmar Bergman's 
~8-AAGIC Gf'ElJTIY 
A S·.eng" Rod"· A B Pm<luct..r. • A ~Uf1f>OGATE RELEASE ~ ~ 
FRI. 6:45-9:15 SAT.SUN. 1:45-4:15-6:50-9:30 IF YOU LIKED "SILENT MOVIE" .. DON'T MISS .. 
MEL BROOKS MIDNITE FUN 
SHOWS 
.~FRIDAY and SATU RDA Y MEL BROOKS' 
~MIDNITE RON MOODY-DOM DELUISE-· MEL RP~"' .....·,~~-BIG CAST 
~-·-· 
.._______________-!:: •. r_. ,.<• :' _....,_...
·-~>1o-*-:.iJo _.~r ~­
Classified Ads 
found: Beige sweater near LaFor. 
tune. Call 8042. 
For Sale 
3·piece bedroom set. $50.00. Good condition. Call 272-2520. 
Mexican Huaraches-all leather with tire tread bottoms. Sizes 3 to ll (will f;t guys and gals). For more infor· mation call Tony at 8212 or come by 1028 Grace to see...$13. 
'74 Toyota, low.mileage, excellent condition, fair price. 272·2131 even· ings. 
Sale: l senior season ticket. Best offer 287 ·4770. 
For sale: REFRIGERATOR--Large, regulation room size. In excellent condition. Contact 233·3721. 
'62 Mercedes, 4·dr, fine condition, radials, stereo S-track. $1100. 287·7693. 
USED BOOKS and paperbacks. Large stock of general reading material & o.p. books. Bring this ad & receive one free paperback with any $1.00 purchase. The BOOK· STACK, 112 W. Lexington, Elkhar1 293·3815. 35 min. via U.S. 20 to downtown Elkhart. 
NEW LONDON LAKE CONDO­M IN IUM 2 bedrooms, den, 2 car garage. $33,900. Sandy Stroes 272-7750 . 272-2696. 
Personals 
Candace C. Carson has a new car. 1977 Trans-Am. You're welcome, Candy. 
Robins are red And also quite pretty Happy Birthday to Raher From all in Sioux City! 
P.S. Mrs. Mayrose says hi! 
WINE-BASTED HOT DOGS, AP­PLES AND CiDER. SODIOLOGY CLUB CONCESSIONS. SATUR­DAY, BADIN HALL.. 

Happy 21st Robin . love, your roomie Interested in a Bible Study or fellowship group? Call 7591 or 3214. Five minutes Nanovic. The JUGGLER will hold a generalDear Robin, meeting for all interested ND-SMC 
Now that you are 21 students and faculty of Sunday,And so much more mature Sept. 19, at 8 pm in the Scholastic We hope you'll learn to drive a Offices.thira floor LaFortune. Call 
car 8211 tor further information. 
So that you can endure. We hope you'll learn to paint a Don't expect any more birthdaysign personals, Fred Dear. I'm flat And discover all the cures busted (I'm also broke!) Love,
For now that you are legal age Ginger.

You will improve, we're sure. (You can't get any worst.) 

C.J. 
Love, The cold is catching.

the ducks of third floor. Frigidaire 
Hi Jerry & John. Sorry I missed you Hey Robin! Dis must be de daylast time. GC 
right? Happy 
Tolkien fans: Help celebrate Bilbo Hey Robin! Dis must be de dayand Frodo's birthday, Sept. 22. For right? Happy Birthday! more info, call Mike, 3280 or Greg, 3344. 
RETREAT WEEKEND time for reflection and prayer 
MORTON KELSEY 
Old College -Friday eve through Sunday mom -Sept. 24-25-26 
Fee:$6 
($3 deposit is non-refundable) Sign-up: Campus Ministry Office 
{1 03 Ubrary) 
• 
Irish await traditional Purdue clash 
by Chip Spina 

The Fighting Irish will take on Purdue's Boilermakers Saturday in the 48th rematch of this traditional intrastate battle. Purdue rides in with a three game win strea~. their most recent victory being an impr­essive defeat of Northwestern last Saturday. The Irish, meanwhile, will be trying to bounce back from the Pitt debacle. 
Team records, however, have not always been a factor in this emotionally-charged series. In fact, Purdue might better be nam­ed the Spoilermakers. Even thou­gh the Irish hold a 28-17-2 edge in this seasonal encounter which beg­an in 1896. the stats show that Purdue has more wins over ND than any other opponent. The upstarts from West Lafayette have pulled off enough upsets to be proud of their record. 
1950 is an example. The Irish were on the crest of a 39 game winning streak, ranked #1. Then ND played Purdue, and in the upset of the year lost to the Boilermakers 28-14 in Notre Dame stadium. 
No one will forget the 1974 clash, also on Irish home turf, in which the Riveters ended Ara's 13 game national championship win streak, at the time the longest in the country. By a 31-20 score, Purdue subdued the Irish, mainly with 24 points in the first 12:47 of the game, ending Parseghian's perso­nall4 game win streak against Big 10 teams. 
In fact, Notre Dame stadium 
Women's hockey 
takes to the field 
by Tony Pace 
The growing acceptance of 

women in intercollegiate sports is 
in evidence here at Notre Dame. 
The women's field hockey team is 
one of those teams experiencing 
this improved status. 

Under the tutelage of coach Astrid Hotvedt last year's young team placed fifty within the state of Indiana. With a year's experience this squad figures to go far. Coach Hotvedt states, "Even in our few scrimmages, our experience is really showing." 
Hotvedt also stated that she expects the attack to revolve about the play of Mary Anne Dooley, who occupies the center forward positi­on. Sophomore goalie Mary Hums will be the key for the defense. 
This team will be put to the test early in the season as they will play 5 games within 7 days. The first game is at Northern Illinois on September 21. 
The home opener is on Septem­ber against Goshen College. The site of the game will be Cartier field and the time will be 6:30 (p.m.). 
The following Saturday, Septe­mber 25, the Irish will host DePauw College and Kalamazoo college in a round robin tourname­nt: Notre Dame plays Depauw at 
11:00 a.m., Depauw faces Kalam­azoo at 4:00. Once again, the site is Cartier Field. The final game in fuis five game series is against Western Michigan on Sept. 27 · 
Once the team has run this gauntlet Coach Hotvedt and the team members should have some idea of the level of play that they am attain. 
Pep rally slated 

There will be a pep rally Friday at 7 pm in Stepan Center. Speakers ilr the Purdue rally include Ross Browner, Jerome Heavens, Dave iluffman and linebacker coach George Kelly as well as special
• guest speaker George Connor. 
The band will step off from llashington Hall at 6:45 pm and, ::IS usual, request that all bicycles te removed from the pathways. 
has not exactly been the friendly confines for the Irish in this series. PU has won seven of the last eleven games in South Bend. 
Since 1957 ., the Shillelagh trop­hy has been awarded to the winner of the clash. Donated by the late Joe McLaughlin, an Irish fan, the trophy has not exactly been lucky for ND. Purdue holds a 10-9 lead since its inception. 
Football fans seem to find the game popular. The Irish biennially pack in 59,075, while the ND-PU games in West Lafayette were witnessed by three of the 5 largest crowds in Indiana football history. Among these is last year's 69,795, which holds the #1 position for state attendance records. 
The game has not always been a battle of also-rans. In 1968, the #1 Fighting Irish (UPI) took on the #1 Boilermakers (AP) in one of the greatest offensive battles ever. The teams combined for 933 yards total offense and 55 first downs. 
Unfortunately, Purdue won 37-22 as Mike Phipps went 16-24, includ­ing two TD passes to Bob Dillingh­am, who had 11 receptions on the day. The Irish were not without chances, however. Terry Hanratty attempted 43 passes, and ND got closer than the Boilermaker's 30 yard line seven times without a score. The victory for Purdue's Jack Mollonkopf made him the first coach to defeat Parseghian three times. 
The previous season's game ('67) was not exactly a sleeper either. Terry Hanratty set an Irish record with 63 passing atempts completin_g 29 for 366 yards. Jim Seymour was on the receiving end eight times for 114 yards. As luck would have it, so was Purdue. They intercepted four times and won the game 28-21. 
Mike Phipps career record agai­nst the Irish, ~panning 1967-1969, was nothing to cry about. He totaled 42-78, a .538 clip, with 645 yards in passing and 723 yards total offense. 
Bob Griese was another Boile­rmaker QB who did not exactly slump when playing ND. His career totals against the Irish, 1964-1966, show 43 completions in 67 attempts. This includes the 1965 Purdue victory(25-21) in whi­ch Griese hit 19-22 for 283 yards and three TD's. Or as Ara said after the game, "My God, it's hard enough to pass that well in practice. " 
The Irish have not gone without accomplishments recently. In 1970 Joe Theismann broke a three-year PU win streak by going 16-24 in a 48-0 ND romp. Tom Gatewood hauled in 12 passes for 192 yards and three touchdowns. 
In 1972, Tom Clements directed the Irish to a 35-14 win, running up 636 yards in total offense with a 17-24 performance. Eric Penick sparkled with 133 yards in 12 carries and one TD. 
But perhaps the most exciting games occurred in 1971 and last year. In '71, ND was behind 7-0 with 2:58 to play when Clarence Ellis blocked a Purdue punt near the end zone. Fred Swendsen fell on it for an Irish TD, and the two-point conversion gave the shaken Domers a 8-7 win. 
*Observer 
Sports 
Baseball Summary 
Pirates 7 -Phillies 2 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Bill Robinson slammed a two-run homer, a single and drove in three runs as the Pittsburgh Pirates beat Philadelphia 7-2 Wednesday night and moved to within five games of the front-running Phillies in the·National League East. 
Left-hantler John Candelaria earned his 15th victory in 21 decisions, allowing only three hits, striking out four and walking three in seven innings. Kent Tekulve finished up with two innings of scoreless relief. 
Astros 4 -Braves 3 
ATLANTA (AP)-Right bander Dan Larson hurled a six-hitter and Bob Watson keyed a three-run, sixth-inning rally with a two-run single, leading the Houston Astros to a 4-3 triumph over the Atlanta Braves Wednesday night. 
Cards over the Mets 
NEW YORK (AP) -John Denny and John Curtis pitched 
complete-game victories and Joe Ferguson hit the first grand slam 
home run of his career as the St. Louis Cardinals swept the New 
York Mets 7-0 and 4-1 in a twi-night double header, Wednesday. 
Denny, 10-7, backed by Ferguson's slam, pitched his third 
shutout in the opener with a four-hitter, while Curtis, 6-9, came 
back to stifle the Mets on six hits in the nightcap. 
Yankees 2 -Indians 0 
CLEVELAND (AP) -Doyle Alexander gave up four hits and 
posted his third shutout of the season as the New York Yankees 
beat the Cleveland Indians 2-0 Wednesday night. 
Alexander, 12-9, got the only run he needed in the first inning 
when New York scored with two out on a single by Thurman 
Munson and Lou Piniella's run-scoring double. 
Reds 4 -Dodgers 3 
CINCINNATI (AP) -Pete Rose rapped four hits and rookie Pat Zachry became the first pitcher in seven years to beat the Los Angeles five times in one season, pitching the Cincinnati Reds to a 4-3 victory Wednesday night and reducing their magic number for the National League West title to six. 


Last year, Dan Devine's rookie yards (a record) for the touchdown season with the Irish, ND headed and iced the game for the Irish with into Lafayette for their second road another interception soon after. game in 5 days. As the fourth ND 17, PU 0. quarter began, the Irish held a So, regardless that this may not precarious 3-0 lead with the Boile­be a battle of the Titans, the series rmakers threatening at the ND 6 record shows that an exciting game yard line. Alex Agase tried some with the unexpected always possi­razzle-dazzle, but the ever-alert ble is in the forecast, as one of the Luther Bradley picked off a halfba­nation's great rivalries continues ck to quarterback pass, raced 99 Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium. 
ND women's tennis team edges two competitors 
by B.J. Lavlns attitude." Senior Ellen Callahan and Juni­
The women's varsity tennis team or Ginger Siefring paced the Irish lambasted Franklin College, 8 to 1, victory over Franklin College by and made mince meat of Indiana decimating their opponents by the Central, 9-0 , as they rolled to same margin, 10 to 2. victory in their matches held Tues-During the Irish's fe&st on Indiana 
. day afternoon at Franklin College. Central, Paddi Mullin held the Coach Cathy Cordes said of the number of games won by her obdurate and efficacious demonst­opponent to a goose egg as she ration of tennis, "I wa~ really coasted to a 10-0 victory. Senior pleased with the play of all the Jane Lammers "slipped," howev­women and will be glad to be going er, as she only ripped her opponent to Saturday's tournament (at Ball by a 10-1 margin. State) with a 3 and 0 record. We'll The Irish will travel to Ball State be facing some of the toughest this Saturday for a tournament competition in the state there, and which will include, among others these. wins will toughen our mental St. Mary's College and DePaul. 
SMC downs Anderson 5-1 
by Debbie Dahrling SMC Sports Editor 

The St. Mary's tennis team gained another win yesterday against Anderson College with a team score of 5-1. Two of the doubles matches were cancelled due to rain and darkness, but this did not stop the team from chalk­ing up their fourth straight victory to remain undefeated. 
The outcome of the match was of no surprise as the team had expected an easy victory. Due to their expectations, the use of the top-seeded women netters was not 
needed • allowing the remainder of the team to gain experience. 
In singles, St. Mary's had no difficulties by capturing five out of six matches. Anne Daniels easily downed her opponent, 6-2,6-2. With an initial win behind them, the St. Mary's team went on to win the next two matches. Marie McKee dominated the nets compi­ling scores of 6-2,6-7,6-2, while Maura Finneran easily outscored her opponent 7-5, 6-0. Karen Midock fell to her opponent 2-6, 7-6, 6-4. Lisa Donovan put St. Mary's back on top gliding by her opponent 6-1, 6-4. In the final match, Susan Tyrell was overpow­ering her opponent 7-6, 6-3, when the match was shortened due to darkness. 
In doubles, only one out of three matches were played due to dark­ness and rain. Lisa Donovan and 
Mary McManus posted a 10-2 pro-set. This victory was the team's fifth , enabling them to win the 
team match. 

The St. Mary's teqnis team will again be in action this weekend hosting St. Joseph on Friday at 4:30 
p.m. and travelling to Ball State on 
NO sailing team hosts regatta 
The Notre Dame sailing club enters its fall season this week­end hosting the Notre Dame Inter­sectional Regatta at Eagle Lake near Edwardsburg,Michigan. 
Fourteen schools will be partici­pating in the" contest, including Florida State University, University of Michigan, Michigan State and Wisconsin University. 
The team placed second in the 42 school Midwest Collegiate Sailing Association last spring. This show­ing qualified them for national competition in which the team finished fourteenth due to performances of Buzz Reynoll Paul Makielski and John Goodill. 
This weekend, the sailing club is coming off a win at Wisconsin. The upcoming regatta should give the team an indication of their strength. Anyone interested in sailing at any level can attend the club's meetings held every Wed­nesday at 6:30p.m. in room 303 of the engineering building. 







