
-----------~-~~---~ 

Women undergrads return to Badin 
by Dave O'Keefe · ing than the modernness of Lewis, Staff Reporter a sentiment echoed by many. After a year's absence, under-'"Badin i~. ol~er and has.. m~re 
graduate women once agaih are inhabiting Hading Hall, the South Quad dorm that was used last year to house graduate women because of a shortage of facilities. 
Most upperclassmen as well as some of last year's freshmen chose to return to Badin after living in Lewis for a year. They cited several reasons and as a general rule were in almost unanimous agreement that Badin has more advantages. 
Jean Sculati, president of Badin Hall. pointed to the location of Badin Hall. pOinted to the location of Badin as its primary advantage. ''The conveinece of it is a big thing. The distance of Lewis prevented you from doing a Jot of things.'' she said. 
Sculati also cited that there are 
singles and a variety of ~ooms. in 
Badin, a feature that Lewts, whtch 
has all double rooms, Jacks. "One 
of the advantgaes of living over 
here is that Badin has different 
sized rooms, but also a Jot of 
singles. I don't know why but girls 
seem to get along better in sin­
gles." 
Sophomore Kittie Barrett also 
mentioned the convenience of Bad-
in • s location and the different sizes 
of rooms as important factors in her 
decision to move. 
She then pointed to the age and 
tradition of Badin as more appeal-
Roemer states attitude1 
about parietal policy 
by Barb Breitenstein Senior Staff Reporter 

A parietals policy which could include forcing second offenders to move off-campus will be followed this year by Dean of Students James Roemer. 
With this policy all parietals violators will be referred to Roem­er, who will review each case. First offenders will "probably get some kind of work assignment," while secondtime violators will be asked to move off-campus, according to Roemer. 
"My attitude as dean of students is that ifthere's a rule on the books 
it should be given credence and enforced, " Roemer explained. "This is my attempt at some kind of consistency between halls. But every situation is different," he said. 
Roemer added that his decisions 
will be made with the recoMmenda­
tions of the rector and assistant 
rector of the violator's hall. The 
Church looks for anti-abortion plank 
by Gregg Bangs E.J:ecudve Editor 

Democratic presidential nominee Jimmy Carter c~ntinued to withold support for a constitutional amend­ment to ban abortion said a spokesman for the Roman Catholic hierarchy following a Tuesday meeting between six Catholic bishops and the former Georgia governor. 
According to an article written by Charles Mohr that appeared in the Sept. 1 edition of the New York Times, the clergymen remained "disappeinted" with Carter's pos­ition following the meeting, which was set up by Carter a11d held in W asbington.l 
However, Archeishop Joseph Bernadill, chairman of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops said that Carter had "indicated he would not oppose an effort ot obtain a constitutional, amend­ment" to overturn a Supreme Court decision in 1973 that legal­abortion in the first trimester of pregnancy. 
Carter, contacted later in the day in New York City, confirmed he had taken this position. He also said that he opposed his own party's hall staff will also be used for discretionary purposes. 
"It will be up to the staff as to what is bona fide policy in each hall," he said. "It is up to their discre~ion as to what exactly is a problem. I'm speaking of situa­tions of a matter of minutes.'' 
"This is not a crackdown," Roemer continued. "I don't want to use that word. Let's just say that after a year, I can be more articulate as to what my attitude and enfor<;ement of parietals sho· uld be," he said. 
f.>Jemer stated his policy to tht hall rectors and assistant rectors last week in an orientation meet­ing. He read the rules of the university concerning parietals and urged rectors to be conscientious and enforce the rule. 
"I want to be fair and consist­
ent,"Roemer said. "The rule 
should be abided by in some 
consistent way, making sure the 
dean of students handles any 
violation in mutual cooperation' 
with rectors," he concluded. 
charact~r: satd ~arrett.. I hk_e the tradttton. Lewts was mce but tt was like a motel. 
Junior Marianne Murphy agreed. "Lewis was nice for a year but it was too modern. I ~i~e th.~ 1wide hallways and tall cethngs, 
Murphy added. . 
Although many gtrls moved, senio~ Robi~ Jenkins dec!ded to stay tn Lewts ~fter spendtng _her first two years tn Badtn. She ctted the nicer ~acilities a~d the fact that ~ Jot of fnends dectded to ~tay as tmportant reasons, but sa~d that . she also thought that ~ewts Hall has a lot of potentta.I as an undergraduate women s dorm. ''As far a~ h~ll government and hall orgamzatto_n are concerned, we're really dotng rather well. I think ,there's. a .. definite identity here, she satd. Last year, a lot of the upperclassmen k~ew they_ w~r movin~ ba~k to. Badtn and .~tdn t 
really tdenttfy wtth the hall. 
Jenkins admitted that Lewi~ has it~ incoven_iences as well as a htghly dtsproporttonate number of f~esh­men and sophomores, but beheves 
that th,t;se pro?Iems can be _over­come. I thmk tts good to get tnto a new situation, to experience a new atm_o~phere." And as far ~s her dectston not to return to Badtn! ~he added, "It. was a difficult ~;ctston to make. I m glad I stayed. 
platform plank on abortion because no assurance that his position it "insinuates that Catholics, Prot­would change." estants, Jews or private citizens Acccrding to a Sept. 1 Associ­don't have a right to seek such an ated Press report, Archbishop Ber­amendment. nadin was also encouraged that 
"I would never try to block such both presidential candidates have 
******************** 
CAMPAIGN 
76 
P.l. 

******************** 
an amendment," he adde asked for meetings concerning the 
The article noted that although issue of abortion with church 
the clergymen publicly expressed officials because they are giving 
disappointment at Carter's views, the issue "visibility." President 
in private" they seemed encour-1' Ford had previously asked for a 
aged by his willingness to study the 1 meeting on the issue, which con­
question further, though they had cerns many Catholic voters. 
Convenience and variation in rooms makes Badin a favorite over lewis with most women undergrads [Photo by Paul Clevenger] 
crowding for at least two weeks 
by Tom Byrne Staff Reporter 

An unexpected increase in enrol­lment at Notre Dame and St. Mary's has created a temporary overcrowding problem in the resi· dence halls on each campus. Officials at both schools said yes­terday that they expect congestion will be alleviated during the next two weeks. 
At Notre Dame, Director of Admissions John T. Goldrick attri­buted the situation to a climb ill confirmation by male students who had been accepted by th admis­sions board. ''There was a three percent in· crease in confirmations this year, up to 59 percent by males," explained Goldrick. "Whether or not Notre Dame is mot'e attractive than even last year, I don't know. ' A questionnaire will be sent to freshmen males to find out if this is the case," he added. 
Fr. John Mulcahy, director of student housing, indicated that past solutions to overcrowding, difficulties had not been satisfac­tpry. "We used to use study lounges and places like that but we now put students in RA rooms instead," remarked Mulcahy. 
Approximately 55 freshmen were originally assigned these alternate accomodations. Mulcahy predicted that the problem will soon be rectified. 
Bernadin, who is archbishop of Cincinnati, also said: ''we do not oppese or support any individual candidate. We address oursevles to the issues and the practic of moral and religious issues. 
''A by-product of these meetings is that there is more visibility of the issue and it will be discussed not only by the candidates but by the people themselves," he pointed out. 
Bernadin also made reference to the abortion planks of the respec­
., tive parties. He said there was "considerable difference" between the Republican and Democratic parties on the issue. The Repub­lic&ll viewpoint, unlike their Demo­cratic opponents, enoourqes an aati-abortion amendment. He said that the bishops would like to meet with Presideat Ford, who has expressed support for an amendment to give the states "local options" on the matter. Carter divided his appearences in New York and Washington. Aside from th~ meeting with the bishops, Carter also met top labor leaders and Sen. Edward Kennedy 
(D. Mass.) while he was in Wash­
(continued on page 3) 

"In two weeks it will all be 
settled," he stated. "we're avera­
gingsix>r more open beds each day 
from no-shows and kids deciding to 
move off campus,'' said Mulcahy. 
According to Mulcahy, halls such as Fisher, Sorin and Howard which have only one basic type of room, were not assigned extra students. Keenan, Stanford, Grace, and Fla­nner, however, accepted a large number of freshmen. 
Fr. John Conyers, rector of Keenan, asserted that there was "no physical way" to overcrowd Keenan or Stanford halls since all the rooms are small doubles. Conyers added that while earlier in lthe year about eight students in Keenan were Jiving with RAs; only one freshman is still doing so. He also expressed a preference for placing extra students in RA rooms instead of the use of the beds in the infirmary or study lounges. 
''Admisssions is usually right on 
the money," said Mulcahy. "This 
is a minor error which actually 
works in favor of the kids, since 
more can be accepted. " 
Admissions Director Goldrick re­
vealed that policy revision in the 
near future may prevent future 
instances of overcrowding. 
"We're already proposing that 400 
fewer students be accepted next 
year and instead be put on the 
waiting list," he stated. 

St. Muy's problem llmllar St. Mary's has experienced simi­lar problems this fall, according to Minnie Owens, coordinator of Housing. Extra students were settled temporarily in lounges in LeMans, but are gradually being moved into regular rooms. "We did have 60 students more than we expected but we are now taking them out ot emergency housing," explained owens. She also stated that LeMans bore most of the burden because it was the largest hall. Elisa Brooks, recently appointed admissions director, pled,ed that "admissions adjustments' will be made in the future to forestall this problem. She cited various reasons for the situation, such as higher than expected enrollment and few­er off campus students. 




~---News Briefs----~ 
t=========lntemational 
National emergency approved 
DUBLIN' IREL\ND-Both houses of the Irish rarliament gave their approva~ yesterday to setting up a national state of emergency as part of a government plan to smash the outlawed Irish Republican Army. 


F=============::::::==::::::==::::::==::::::=====National Flu vaccine reduced 
WASIDNGTON-The Ford administration has disclosed a drastic reduction in the amount of swine flu vaccine expected to be ready by Oct. 1, and it appeared to drug companies to speed up delivery. About 20 million doses, only one-forth of the expected total, will be ready for inoculations next month, the National Influenza Immunization Program sai~ yesterday. 
Welfare programs audited 
FORT WAYNE, IND.· The U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare has begun an audit of the Indiana's administration of the Meidcaid and Medicare welfare programs. A federal grand jury at South Bend is investigating alleged fraud in the two welfare medical programs. 
sohpomore from Albuquerque,

.,..__On Campus Today----.... N.M., and John Calcutt, a Notre Dame sophomore from Parkers­
8:30 am -student football ticket pickup, for juniors, graduate, law burgh, W.Va., have been promoted4 pm and all students in the ninth semester and higher ; from the position of assistant night windows 1 and 2 of the ace. ' 
editor to night editor. They will supervise the design and layout of 1 pm-book sale, Iafortune. 
the newspaper on their respective 5 pn·. 
nights. ' 
meeting, sophomore advisory council meeting, Ia­7 pm 
Tuition increased
fortune. 

The University has announced a 
tuition, bringing it to $3,230 a year,

'76 graduates pick jobs 
as well as a $50 increase in room and board charges, which will now average $1,350.

over continuing education 
The increases were voted by the 
A recent survey indicates that more University of Notre Dame graduates than last year chose to enter the job market following the May commencement and that wo­men fared better than men in the salary category. While experts· predicted up to a five percent decrease in job openings this year, the Notre Dame student achieved the same acceptance rate as last 
year. 

The survey of 1,963 graduates, labeled by school officials as a preliminary sampling because it was taken before May 1, received an amazing 91 percent response from undergraduates and 83 per­cent overall. It showed more than 
44 percent planning to begin job careers this year, compared to 38 percent a year ago, and almost half of them receiving one or more firm offers. The number planning to 
continue their education beyond the baccalaureate degree dropped from 49 percent last year to 46 per­cent. 
Women graduates with career plans, who last year reported starting wages $600 below the Notre Dame average, were re­
porting offers running $150 ahead of average this year. The typical job applicant here could expect a starting annual-salary of $13,248, compared to $11,791 last year. In­cluded in this group were five Law 

(*The Observer1 
Night editor-Bob Brink 

Ass't Night Editor-Paul Schap­
pler, Giacomo D' Aurora 

layout -Dan Meuleman, Drew 
Bauer ' 
Copy Editor -Barb Langhenry 
Day Editor -Mary Mungovan 
Features -Cregg B. Bangs 

Forgotten About: W.S. Nichols 
Sports-Paul Stevenson 

Typists -Gwen Coleman Sue 
Shellenberger,Kathy Egbert, 
Nancy Cueroni 

Night Controller -Morey Blinder 
Picture Screener -Paul Clev­
eng~r 

Starting wages for all graduates responding to' the survey ranged ; from a $9,900 average for an· 1 undergraduate in English to 1 $19,300 for a doctoral degree recipient in environmental health engineering. Business administra­tion students majorin8 inaccoonti~ · are averaging$13,000 while ,gr~d­uate degree holders are hstmg average salaries of $17,200. Engin · eering undergraduates range from $11,200 in architecture to $14,800 in metallurgical engineering, and science majors from $11,000 in preprofessional studies to $12,550 for mathematicsuajors. 
Members of minority groups, making up more than five percent of the survey group, reported a 57 percent rate of success for job offers. Five undergraduates were promised starting salaries averag­ing $12,650 while the average for all responding to the survey was $13,650. 
the percentage of students plan­ning to participate in volunteer programs -·Peace Corps, Vista, etc.--dropped from 17 112 percent last year to IS percent this year. All four branches of the military are 
represented by ROTC programs on the campus and a significant number of students are committed to participate in active service following their graduation. 
Finally, the survey noted that ' grade point averages of students planning to begin law studies were at an all-time high. A record number of students were reporting acceptance from many of the nation's top law schools. 
The survey was directed by Charles W. McCollester, coordina­tor of analytical studies in the office of #teDean of Administra:tion, and 
1 ' I, 41 I ' I I I f ' 1 I I' I • • I ' I' ' • • " 
,·, ,R,il;h~~;rsJ.-J;>,·.Wute~in, director of
• '1 1 '1 11 ·, I ., f I I I I I # I I I I I I I I 
tlie Placement Bureau. · · · · · 
I 

Facilities nearly doubled 




Radiation Labratory expands 
The Radiation Laboratory re­search staff at Notre Dame has nearly doubled as a result of the recently announced consolidation with the Radiation Research Labor­atories of Carnegie-Mellon Univer­sity at Pittsburgh. 
Consolidation also means new equipment, including a Van de Graaff generator being transferred here from Carnegie-Mellon. An underground concrete vault is being added to the south side of the Radiation Research Building to house the Laboratory's second generator. 
According to Dr. Robert H. Schuler, who assumed the director­ship July 1, the new personnel will expand research activities, broad­
Dahrling,Calcutt 
promoted to 

night editors 

Two new night editors have been ening the Laboratory's scope of The former director of the Car­interest. "We will be engaged in negie-Mellon Radiation Research basic aspects of energy research," Laboratories brought five scientists Schuler said, "particularly re-with him to Notre Dame and made search activities analyzing the ef-17 new appointments, for a total fects of ionizing radiation and light research staff of 48. The facility is on chemical systems. The new staff located adjacent to the chemistry, is interested in study of interme-physics and biology departments, diates in chemical reactions on and fourteen members of the microsecond time scales using research staff also hold faculty optical and electron spin resonance appointments in chemistry. Others (ESR) spectroscopy," he explain-hold appointments in biology, mic-ed. robiology and engineering. 
SMC Junior Class Presents : TRIP TO THE DUNES Saturday Sept. 4 100:00 -4:00pm 
BEER & HOTDOGS 
Sold SMC-ND dining halls on Wed. and Thurs. 
TIX-$2.00 
Maps given out with tickets. Sponsered by SMC Junior Class 
appointed to the OBSERVER staff, , ,------------------------,-------, 
was announced yesterday. Debbie Dahrling, a St. Mary's 
The ND-SMC Theatre announces TRYOUTS Open to all ND-SMC students. 
for 

HEARTBREAK HOUSE 
by BERNARD SHAW 
O'Laughlin Aud... 7:30 p.m. Wed. Sept 1 Thurs Sept. 2­Callbacks Fri. Sept. 3. 7:30p.m. 
$250 increase in undergraduate ••••••••••••••••••••••• 
University's Board of Trustees and 
School graduates report!ng $1? ,400 announced in a letter to parents of salaries, five masters m busmess undergraduates written by Rev. administration averaging $15,320, Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., and 24 undergraduate degree re­president of the University. Father cipients expecing a wage averaging Hesburgh said he regretted the $12,580. additional burden .on parents but noted that Notre Dame's tuition
Advanced education was in the 
and other charges remain below
future for 38 percent of the women 

those of many other independent r='--=:..._::"'--'=-=--=--=~~~~=-=--=--=--='--""r:....::=-:""'-=-~-""'--"""-"~
while 50 percent reported interest 
universities in the nation.

in beginning work. Forty-one 
Graduate tuition was also in­
percent of these had one or more 
Job offers before May 1. creased $250 to $3050 annually. 






ROCCO 
Close to Cam pus NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS 

c~~~'\~' 
FREE FRI~EE with any $2.00 purchase. 
We serve pizza, sandwiches and your favorite beverages. 
Frisbee coupons expire Sept. 8. 


Thursday, September 2, 1976 the observer 
3 

JD-Boards receive attention 
Gassman outlines plans, lists appointments 
by Bill Shaughnessy ordinators Bob Bode and Phil in hall activities. mer." between the North and South 

Staff Reporter 'Mancini will soon be meeting with Co-exchange tickets between Concerning the policy of having dining halls. 
'the rectors of the halls to discuss Notre Dame and St. Mary's will be departmental examinations at 8' Activities Night will be conduc­
Mike Gassman, student body the hall judicial boards. "Our goal handled by commissioners Rich a.m., Gassman stated, "I would ted by Ken Girouard and held in president, listed several cabinet this year is to make the hall judicial Littlefield and Barb Frey. They will eventually like to see all tests given Lafortune Student Center on Sept. appointments and outlined plans boards more effective and respon­also be in charge of relations in class, however, Fr. Burthchaell's 13. Carney '76 will be held Fri., 
for the school year in an Observer sible so that their jurisdiction may between the two campuses. interview yesterday. be extended to violations of parie-
The appointments include Bob tals and liquor laws," Gassman Plans outlined Bode and Phil Mancini as judicial stated. -co-ordinators, John Kinney and Bill Off-campus commissioners John Once again Notre Dame student Salm as off-campus commissioners Kinney and Bill Salm are discus­lobby will attempt to get the and John Clemency as Alumni sing the merits of a system which drinking age in Indiana lowered representative. Rich Littlefield and would giye each off-campus stu­from 21 to 18. Heading the 20 Barb Frey were also appointed as dent a hall designation for purpo­member lobby will be Jerry Kling­commissioners who will handle ses of parties and athletics. Gass­enberger and Buzz Reynolds. Gass relations between Notre Dame and man feels that this program could man said, "Our chances look good St. Mary's. prevent the isolation of off-campus this year. Jerry has already spoken 
Gassman said that judicial co-students who wanted to participate to many legislators over the sum-
House overturns pay increase 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The House voted yesterday to deny a cost-of­living pay raise this year to its own members and also to senators, federal judges, Cabinet members and other top executive officials. 
It adopted, 325 to 75, an amend­ment to the legislative branch appropriation bill barring funds for the pay raise, then went on to pass the appropriation bill by voice vote. 
The issue now goes to the 
· Senate, which is expected to act on the appropriation after the Labor Day congressional recess. If the Senate disagrees with the House action, a conference will be needed to settle the disputed provision. 
The pay raise, the exact amount of which still si: to be determined, would be automatic Oct. 1 in the absence of congressional action. 
A House vote to remove its own salaries from this election year's cost-of-living adjustment had been considered likely, but the broaden­ing of the pay freeze to the Senate and the other officials came as a surprise. 
Rep. Morris K. Udall, 1-Ariz., proposed the broader provision as a modification of the pay freeze amendment, applying only to the House, that had been introduced by Rep. George E. Shipley, I-III. 
The House had listened to argu­ments that by denying itself an increase while allowing others to receive it would be demeaning to the House as an institution. It accepted the modification by unan­imous consent. 
Some Republicans contended that the House action does not preclude the possibility of a p&.J raise later within the next year. They said it applies only to the operation of a 1975 Jaw tying congressional and other pay to the general provisions for cost-of-living adjustment for federal employees. 
Under a different law, a special commission reviews top salaries 
Classtfied Ads 
Notices 

. Available for typing reports'lthesis at a proper cost. Please contact Mary Jo at 6296. T. Y. Legible writing required. 
Sailors needed, no experience necessary. Club meetings every 'Wednesday at 6 :30 Room 303 
Engineering Building 
1six bedroom house with fireplace for rent. Completely furnished and just 2 blocks from campus at 1034 N. Eddy. No security problem. Listed with Notre Dame Housing Office. Also, 4­bedroom, completely furnished house, real close at 1126 N. Hill. Completely safe, good neighbor­hood. Call 277-3604. Best time, 6-11pm. 
House for Rent 1018 N. Eddy (near Logan Hospital) walk to campus. Five bedrooms, partially furnished. 9 mo. lease. Very reasonable rate. Good for college students. Call 233-2613 between 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
House for Rent: Between Logan Hosp. & Nickies Bar on 1018 N. Eddy -Partially furnished ­excellent condition. Walk to NO. 5 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms -very reasonable price -good for group of college kids. Call 233-2613 between 8:00 pm-10 :00 pm. 
PANDORA'S BOOKS 937 South Bend Avenue 233-2342 5 blocks south of campus Open 11 to 7 daily. 9-7 on Sunday. 
Doc. Pierce's Saloon & Restaurant is hiring Full or Part-Time NOW. Bartenders, Waiters, Waitresses, Busboys. Will schedule around academic commitments. Apply in person between 2 and 4 PM at 120 North Main Street, Mishawaka, Phone 255-7737. An Equal Oppor­
.tunity Emolover.  
Accurate,  Fast  Typing.  Mrs.  
Donoho  232-0746  
For Rent  
Garage  for  rent.  Call  after  5.  
287-5718  

Three nice Fully Furnished houses tor rent. Super close to campus (couple blocks). One 6 bedroom with fireplace and two tour bed­room houses. Call 277-3604 evenings til 11pm or weekends. All houses registered with N.D. housing. If no luck call 232-7263 evenings only. 
bedroom house, furnished, East Navarre Street, South Bend. Call 259-6021. 
Interested in 10-speeds? Help is needed to organize a club at ND-SMC. Call Russ 288-5192. 
Wanted I will pay top dollar for G.A. Pitt tickets Call Tim W868 
Desperately need two Pitt tickets Call Bill 8764 
I will pay top price for 1 Pitt and 3 Purdue tix Call Russ at 8764. 
Pitt tix (2) needed desperately. Call 7471 or 288-8417. Ask for Tom. 
Need eight tix to Oregon game. Call Tom at 1715 or 288-8417. 
Wanted: Football tickets two to­gether, multiples thereof. All NO home games. Call 287-3021. 
Wanted: A faculty advisor for the Sailing Club. If interested, Call 1325 or 5408. 
Need 3 or 4 roommates to share 
house on E. Colfax. Low rent . 
Good Neighborhood. 284-5726. 
For Sale For sale couches, chairs, misc. Free delivery to campus. Call Mrs. Delphine Cooper at 272-3004. 
Ladies 3-speed bicycle excellent condition. $50 272-7360. 
'64 Dodge pick-up. Runs. Needs work. $200 or best offer. 2727360. 
'62 Mercedes 220, very good con­
dition, radials, stereo S-track, 
electronic ignition. $1200 or offer. 
Call 287-7693. 
Personals Is your life empty? Order the Chicasgo Tribune Call 8670. 
Pandora's Books has used books 
for the following classes 
Am. Studies -351, 381, 471, 
476, 482. Col. Sem. -420. 
Gen. Prog.. 180, 191, 241, 243, 
281, 345, 381, 441, 443, 445, 481. 
English . 109, 180, 185, 303, 311. 
320, 322, 325, 328, 383, 386, 388, 
392, 395, 396, 405, 425, 463, 
482, 486, 490, 494, 575, 578, 
596, 674. Speech -390. 
Sociology . 227, 229, 511. 
Gov't . 180, 343, 407, 467, 545. 
History . 109, 111. 115, 180, 215, 
341, 345, 346, 413, 425, 453. 
Philos . 1Jl1, 180, 201, 245, 272, 
275, 301," 306, 351, 363, 408, 
441. Psych . 180, 377. 
Theology . 122, 124, 136, 180, 
225, 226, 336, 367' 411' 453, 454, 
526, 536. Mod. Lang. · 180, 
304, 324, 393, 430, 441' 473. 
Used paperback books tor these 
and many more clasSEt_S. 
new policy has merit because Sept. 10 on the South Quad. evening tests detract from a stu­dent's social life and college exper­iences. Also, professors will not be Carter campaign 
able to give excessively long tests in the morning." 
(continued from page 1)

Gassman added that this exper­iment is being conducted on a trial 
ington. basis and will be reviewed by the The labor leaders promised Co·­academic council at the end of the ter that they would stage "the semester. 
strongest most effective get-out­

Gassman also clarified the func­the-vote campaign ever conducted tion of Student Union: "Student by the labor movement" the aut-Union is concerned with the non­
umn. political business of Student Gov­This pledge came when Carter ernment. It must be responsible to 1ddressed 109 presidents of the Student Government because it 
affiliated unions of the American uses its funds. It can never be Federation of Labor and Congress separated from Student Govern­of Industrial Organizations. George ment. Meany, president of the 14-million­
Events in the near future include member labor federation. said the Activities Night, Carney '76, and unions would do everythLlg pos­the allocation of exchange tickets sible to help elect Carter. 



CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
* 
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT * 
--Vacancies this fall --Furnished 2 bedroom apartments --$300 per .month 
--9 ..month lease 

--Convenient location 
Contact office Mon -Fri, 9 -4 272-1411 


Planet safe 

' 
I 




~ Quake fears unfo-unded 
' 
By Jack Saunders shKe 1970. That year 67,000 lost Cloud says, where the Pacific plate 
Pacific News Service their lives when a normal number grinds mightily against the north­of quakes hit viciously at heavily west-moving North American settled regions in Peru and Turkey. plate. 
But earthquake frequency along
Fears that the planet may be the North American plate, Cloud coming apart in a thundering storm PLATE THEORY says, is entirely unconnected with of tremors--with the U.S. West that along the Asian plate.Coast an imminent next victim--are Therefore, even if earthquake acti­
A leading but recent theory of

groundless, according to one quake vity did pick up in Asia, there
earthquakes--called the plate tec­
expert here. would be no reason to predict an
tonic theory--holds that the earth's 
associated increase along the U S.
What appears to be a quake land masses sit atop a set of huge 
West Coast. 1
epidemic, says William Cloud, plates that move around ever so earthquake researcher at the Uni­versity of California's Berkeley slowly. That, according to the Jazz Band tryouts
Seismographic Station, is actually theory, can give rise to tremendous nothing more than increased news pressure points that occasionally attention given normal quakes that break free with potentially city­to be held Sunday happened to cause unusually heavy wrecking violence. loss of life. 
Auditions for the Notre Dame 
The recent Chinese and Philip-The north China coast and the Jazz Bands will be held on Sunday --pine earthquakes, said Cloud, oc­Philippine Islands, Cloud says are Spet. 5 at 1:00 p.m.
curred in two densely populated both situated on Asian plate :Oar­The Notre Dame Jazz Big Bands areas known to shake frequently gins--where history's most deva­and combos perform regularly dur­and violently. Most Asian quakes, ing the year in the Nazz and at the he said, occur in sparsely popu­statmg quakes have struck. 
Collegiate Jazz Festival where the lated areas and are little noticed. A 13th century quake killed combo received an "outstanding
100,000 Chinese. A 16th century 
performance" award last year.
The August quakes struck both Chinese tremor killed 830,000. 
This year members of the big bandregions with massive force and in J~pan suffered 143,000 deaths in can receive one hour credit. 
places where urban centers made 1923, and a year later a Chinese There are openings on all instru­vulnerable targets for crushing quake took 70,000. 
ments with bass players and saxo­
devastation. Tsunamis--tidal waves that fol­phonists especially needed. Again
low earthquakes--are a special
More than 25,000 persons have this year there will probably be two 
danger to populations huddled in
died in earthquakes this year, big bands and several small com­
coastal Asian cities. Japan lost
according to U.S. Geological Sur­bos.
22,000 in a wave that followed an
vey data--not including heavy fata­Auditions will be held on the
1896 jolt, and waves were an
lities suffered in huge Soviet and second floor of the Band Annex
important wrecking force in the
Chinese quakes where figures were building (across from the Huddle).
Philippine quake earlier this
not available. Amplifiers and drum sets will be
month. 
provided. Further information canMeasured for damage, however, The West Coast of the United be obtained from Fr. Wiskirchen at 1976 quakes are the most costly States is also along a plate seam, 
7136. Saturday, Sept. 3, the Notre Dame Jazz Combo will hold a "jam
Marxists join opponents 
session" at the Nazz in the basement of LaFortune from 9:30 
p.m. to 1 a.m. All jazz players are
in fight against Gandhi 
welcome to sit in and listeners are invited.
NEW DELHI (AP) -Prime Minister 
Indira Gandhi's political opponents 

LSA T registration
of both', left and right stalked out Parliament on Wednesday and vowed to boycott debate on sweep­nears deadline ing legislation that they said would turn India into a constitutional dictatorship. 
In a rare display of unity, the Marxist communists joined four major non-Communist parties in denouncing a proposed constitu­tional amendment enhancing exec­utive powers. 
They also protested the deten­tion of some 30 opposition lawma­kers since the start of a national emergency 14 months ago and continued press sensorship. 
"For opposition members fo 
Senior Bar opens Tuesday 

The Senior Bar has undergone a completerenovation and "previous customers will hardly recognize it," stated Jim O'Commell, one of the student managers. 
The Senior Bar, which will open on Tuesday, Sept. 7 at 8 p.m., has gained among other additions a dance floor, a public address system, an extended bar, a new bar in a room-that wasn't utilized last year, and intercom system between the bars and new game machines. 
There are also tentative plans for a type of disco night and food sales stated O'Connell. "The disco night would work well because of the 
P.A. system," he added. O'Con­nell is looking for someone to work a food sales which would give a percentage to the bar. 
O'Connell along with Chuck Juttinger and Rich Johnson, also student managers, has been wor­king at least 15 hours a day for the past two weeks. All of the work is being done by the managers and student volunteers, with the excep­tion of the floor, which is being done professionally. 
O'Connell stated that the open­ing of the bar was delayed from the anticipated Friday date because the floor is not yet completed. 


SAN CARLOS Calif. (AP) -without our roses." "We can put a man on the moon, but we can't get the deer out of San . "People with water and gardensCarlos," said one resident who is m~dvertantly are helping some tired of watching deer dining in ammals through the summer that rose gardens. might not otherwise make it " said 
The deer, driven by thirst and Gil J:'homson' of the ' state 
hunger because of a drought in Department of Fish and Game. Northern California which has "Every animal is affected to some lasted since last winter. are extent, including fish and even 
water fowl." 

inva,-~ing backyards and being Descending from the wooded kill· d on highways in their hills around San Francisco Bay are des Jerate search for water. racoons, skunks, owls, hawks, 1he deer march boldly into rattlesnakes, rodents, quail and yards, stroll down streets and even even bobcats, and other wildlife, wander into towns like San Carlos 
said Martha Williams at the Marin seeking water. Museum of Science. 
"We're experiencing quite a ''A lot of animals are getting run problem," said Herb Martin, exec­-over because they're closer to utive director of the Marin County roadways," Miss Williams said. Humane Society. "We're going "And there1 is an upsurge in out to collect three or four dead poaching-people just shoot the 
deer every day-maybe more." deer s!anding by the roadside.'' 

Thursday, September 2, 1976 the opserver 
5 

~ Ji 4 J!
¥-.., .. ., ... .,... 
W II
...... ¥• """ .. 
-. ... .,.. .,...... I 
.. ¥>• ¥s• ¥e .. • 
a of Noise Engulfs ACC 


Kiss and Bob Seeger put on as fine a show as one could ever hope to see in South Bend, Indiana. Seeger came out smoking and fully confident with a mixture of both old and new material designed to exhibit his sudden new-found confidence. He was able to move the crowd at will. Kiss, seemingly in_spired by Seeger's "sucess proceeded to put on frentic and highly­charged show. 
Seeger put on an extremely esoteric show. For a man whose last album went Top Ten, he played a very unusual set. Relying mostly on old blues tunes such as "Mary Lou" and "Nutbush City Limits" and even the Bo Didley chestnut "Who Do You Love?" Seeger won over the crowd with splendid vocal delivery and a rather sophisticated and talented band. The usual raucous versions of obvious Seeger Favor­ites were instead performed with panache and abandon. The highlight of the set was Bob's recent hit "Katmandu" that com­bined funky instrumental breaks with a wild shouted vocal. This brought the crowd to a frenzy. Seeger wasted little time in hustling back to the stage to perform a medley of "Let It Rock" and "Whole Lot of Shakin'." It was heartening to see the enthusiastic response accorded to the 
by dominick salemi 
veteran singer-songwriter whose following has never extended beyond the midwest. 
Kiss took the stage shortly afterwards amidst smoke bombs, lights and splendid applause. They were not at all intimidated by Seeger's spiried set and quickly launched into a lively set that included fine versions of "Hotter Than Hell", "Nothing To Lose" and "Cold Fire". Throughout the opening set, Ace Frebley's obnoxious lead guitar power chords and stunning feedback solos provided a powerful base that offset the repitiious vocal delivery. 
Perhaps the most interesting aspect of the Kiss show was their abandonment of stage effect. With the exception of two towers on either side of the stage which were designed to spotlight instrumental solos, Kiss relied very little on theatrical staging, choosing instead to concentrate on garrulous versions of crowd favorites. Playing the crowd rather than at them­selves, Kiss was called back for two encores after a rab-ble-rousing "Rock and Roll All Night" which brought tqe usually apathetic South Bend crowd to their feet. Their highly powered, encore, "Deuce" and "Firehouse", \marked by surging guitar and a seeming wall of noise affirmed the power and glory of obstrperous and light-hearted rock and roll. 
the summer in music ---tquick cuts' 
Editors Note: The following three People write record reviews for the feature page. The ensuing stories are "quick cuts" of records they happened to review this summer. 
w.s.nichols 

This summer will go down in musical history as the "Siege of Disco". The immense surge of popularity that the disco sound has enjoyed has also become a damnation to the other forms of rock music. It has cut down emmensly on the amount of live music that appears in the bars, the principal breeding-ground of some of our finest bands. After all, a taped band is cheaper to pay for, and easier to abuse and ignore. So, it still remains to be seen if this new music form is temporary or not, but things do look bad for live rock artists and rock music, as we know it. Who knows, maybe it's time for a change of popular music? 
There have been some interesting relases that have come out between the springtime-allnighter-crazy time and the fall version of the same. 
Jeff Beck, Wired-··With Led Zepplin stW recovering from a nasty auto accident and Eric Clapton just "recovering", Jeff Beck is now in line to b·ecome England's foremost rock guitarist. If he keeps up like he has been doing, then the others will have to hustle. Incredibley crisp and quick guitar runs are his tradmarks and his band are the topping for the cake. 
Grateful Dead, Steal Your Face---Unfor­tunately, somebody didn't do something right, because this collection of live recordings are not as clear, as energetic or creative as their earlier recordings. Either "Europe 72" or a boot-leg tape from a en~erprising student would be a better buy. 
Asleep At The Wheei,'Wbeelin·' and Dealin'---You say that you have never heard of Asleep At the Wheel? It figures, because their form of Texas Music is not gut, window and speaker--busting crud, but a flowing mix of fiddles, guitars and vocals. They're the newest form of Swing Music and it sure is a mighty relaxing !bit of music. 
Firefall, Firefall---What happens when you mix a Burrito with a Byrd with a Spirit-Gunne and a Zephyr, with a few extra ingredients? Well, the people in Boulder Colo. did it and came out with a hot little band who put out the best country-rock album since' the first Eagles album or the Manassas album. 
Marshall Tucker Band, Long Hard Ride---By default, the Tuckers have be­come the standard-bearers of the Southern Rock banner. Their new album is more 
Countryishbut it still features precise guitar work and excellent interweaving of vocals and the different instruments. A new star in the band is Toy Caldwell's brother, Tom, who contributed the best bass solo that I have heard recently and the best songs. 
J•.Geils, Live··· This will be the finest live album released this year unless the Stones release one. Live captures all the excitement and vivacious, raw energy of their live sets. It is impossible not to dance to this album. 
Rod Stewart, Night on the Town··· Rod's second album lor Warner Brothers is a more studied and subdued work. There ar only four originals on the album, including the wonderful "Killing of Georgie," but Stewart is such an effective stylist that he subtly transforms everything he sings into a moving personal statement. Ramones, Ramones··· Yeah, I know they can't sing, and that they turn their amps up all the way to disguise the fact that they can't play their instruments and all their songs use the same three chords, and judging by their lyrics they're probably illiterate, I like 'em. anyway. They are a slap in the face of pretentious art-rock. 
Arrogance, Rumors---This generally B h B 15 Bi -Th B h
f shin 1 eac oys, g 0 nes··· e eac
un_known band put out a re re g Y Boys are supposed -to be an importantbrtght album on the Vanguard label. If one A · · t't t' I 11 't 
. . . · db mertcan ms t u ton. rea y can 
had to cl~sst~y thetr mustc, then .tt woul e understand why and this album of mostly a combmatt~n of a countnfied P3:ul reworked tunes doesn't make anything any 
McCartney, Ltttle Feat, early Pure Prarte 
. . l't I c1earer.
League and a large amount of ongma t y. like them, but I'm predjudiced because Alice Cooper, Alice Goes to Hell··· I'll · they're personal friends of mine from resist the obvious pun and tell you to go see 
Chapel Hill. Try them. 

dominick salemi 
John Cale, Helen of Tro.r··· Cale is known in this country mostly for his work with the Velvet Underground, but he has released many fine solo albums of which this is no exception. His interesting imagery and playful melodic structures show him to be a songwriter of considerable talents, with Helen of Troy one of his finest albums. It is a sodden, vindictive, drunkP.n masterpiece. Rolling Stones, Black and Blue··· This album has gotten a lot of uncalled-for criticism, most of it unfair. It is a courageous album that is startling in its simplicity because the Stones have chosen to release an eclectic selection-of songs that draw on all sources of popular music: reggae, disco-soul, jazz, and of course rock 
and roll" . 

the staged production of this opus. Alice dies and finds himself in hell which just happens to be a disco. Usual fine support from guitarists Hunter and Wagner. 
Eno, · Discreet Music and Just Another Green World-·· Two fascmating albums 
produced by the unusually gifted guardian 
of the avant-garde. Discreet Music is a 
work that uses the machine as much as the 
musical instrument to create a patterned 
tonal system. World is a beautiful series of 
short musical pieces to evocatively portray 
the artist in a lyrical state of mind. Arrowsmith. Rocks··· Why listen to this when you can hear the real thing on Black and Blue 
gregg bangs 
. The Ritchie Foray Band, I've Got A 
is surrounded by a lot of orchestration. It's not Poco, but it's not bad either. Furay's voice is still his strongest asset. 
Chris Hillman, Sllppln' Away---Like Furay, Hillman is coming out with his first solo album after years of playing on several country-rock bands. Hillman has been labelled as being a fine musician, but an unemotional, if not downright boring singer. This album should help him shed that description for his vocals are fine (nice harmonies by Rick Roberts help) and his playing has never been better. 
Steely Dan, Royal Scam---Walter Bec­ker. Donald Fagan & Co. have put out another class album. The only problem with this group is that they don't tour. This is something of a concept album in that all the songs deal with some sort of violent act, although it is not necessarily a physical one. 
Spirit, Farther Along---The group that spawned Jo Jo Gunne is back together again. Howver, it is sans lead vocalist Jay Ferguson and although guitarist Randy California can can play very well. he can't sing a lick. The material is sort of flat 'as is the overall album. 
Crosby and Nash, Whlslln' Down the Wire---This album is somewhat of a disappointment after Wind on the Water. Although Crosby and Nash have always tended to favor a laid back approach, the lack of spark in this album can put you to sleep. They should've waited for better material. 
_Fool's Gold---Dan Fogleberg's back-up band sounds exactly like some of Fogel­berg's best friends---the Eagles Their best material was also written by Fo~eiti-e'l and the album was produced by Glenn t~y who happens to be a guitarist for the Eagles. 'Nuff said? 
Steve Mlller Band, Fly Like An Eagle--­"Keep Rockin' Me" is not only a line from this album but is exactly what the album does throughout the whole playing time. How somebody can manage to mix country rock with oriental music is beyond me, but Miller does it quite well. 
Doobie Brothers,· Takin' It-.Toi The Streets··· Reason---Furay practically abandons the and then leave it in the middle of the road. country-rock style he lived by in Buffalo diane Carrol sang the title cut on the Springfield, Poco and the Souther, Hill­Tonight Show. man, Furay for a harder electric sound that 


~--------------------~--­



programmable powerhouse 
...with 10 memories and 100 program steps. 

SPECIAL SR-56
s1ooo 
Rebate 
Fill out coupon 
The SR-56 is a tremen­
gramming. That's what pro­dously powerful slide rule fessionals in your field are calculator. Yet you can pro­doing-right now. And with gram it whenever you're an SR-56 you're ready. It ready. · has 100-merged prefix pro­
T h e r e are 7 4 p r e p r o -gram steps. 6 logical deci­grammed functions and op­sion functions. 4 levels of erations. You can do subroutines. You can decre­arithmetic within all 10 ment and skip on zero to memories+. It has AOS-a iterate a loop as many time~ unique algebraic operating as you specify. There are 4 system that lets you handle levels of subroutine to let problems with up to 9 levels you use your program steps of parentheses. There's also to maximum advantage. polar to rectangular con­And, you can even compare version-built in. Mean. a test register with the dis­Standard deviation. De­play to make a conditional grees, radians, grads. And, branch. So you can check an it works with TI's new intermediate result ~o printer-the PC-100. for convergence, or a ur 
Chances are, you'll be pro-maximum. 
The edge you need. Now. And in your career. 
---------------------------------------~-------------~-----------------------, 
! . 6 
the observer Thu<oday, Septemb., 2, 1976 
I 
~ 
t Sex scandel forces resignation
I I 
I 
by Jim Adams

I 
~ 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Rep.

~ 
Wayne L. Hays, the once powerful House chairman who was toppled by Capitol Hill sex scandel, submit­ted his resignation from Congress yesterday, effective immediately. 
House Speaker Carl Albert told reporters he assumes the resigna­tion automatically ends the House Ethics Committee's investigation of the Ohio Democrat. 
"I think he did it to save his family," Albert said. 
The inquiry was on the charge by Elizabeth Ray that Hays kept her on his House Administration Com­mittee payroll only to be his mistress. 
The charges forced 'Hays to resign as head of. the Democratic Campaign Committee, quit as com­mittee chairman and then to an­nounce he would not seek re-elec­tion to Congress. 
Hays himself asked for the Ethics Committee inquiry saying it 
Texas Instruments will rebate $10.00 of your original SR-56 purchase price when you return this coupon and your SR-56 customer information card post­marked no later than October 31, 1976. To apply: 
1. 
Fill out this coupon 


2. 
Fill out special serialized customer information card inside SR-56 box 

3. 
Return completed coupon and information card to: Special Campus Offer P.O. Box 1210 Richardson, Texas 75080 


would exonerate him by establish­ing that Miss Ray did committee work for her $14,000-a-year pay. 
But Hays said when he dropped his re-election campaign three weeks ago one reason was "I don't want to give that woman a chance to make another appearance." 
There was some confusion about when Hays actually leaves office. 
Hays told Ohio Gov. James A. Rhodes he would resign Sept. 8. 
But in a letter distrubutecl by his staff, Hays said, "I hereby resign my office as a representative in thje Congress of the United States from the 18th District of Ohio, effective immediately.'' 
Members of the Ethics Commit­tee, meeting after Hays' announce­ment, said they were not sure which would be the resignation date. 
Before Hays would resign, his aides pressed for an assurance first that the resignation would halt the 
SR~56 
The super slide rule 
Ethic Committee's payroll-sex 
probe against him, sources said. 
They said Hays' aides were ready to submit the resignation letter Speaker Albert yesterday morning but did not when they learned they had no promise the committee would vote to halt its investigation. 
The Ethics Committee had voged Mon day to begin hearings for its probe Sept. 16 despite a plea that Hays was to mentally depressed to defend himself. 
Albert said the Ethics Committee told Hays the probe would automa­tically be dropped if Hays resigned from Congress because he would no longer be congressman. 
The Ethicws Committee Tuesday took no action on a proposed resolution declaring that whereas Hays was resigning as of Sept. 8 the committee would suspend its investigation and then terminate it on his resignation. 
I  
Name  
I  
Address  I  
I  
City  State  Zip  I I  
University  I I  
Name of SR-56 Retailer  

SR-56 Serial No. (from back of calculator) 
Please allow 30 days for rebate 
I:.l~IV 
SENIOR 
SENIOR 
Fri. ~~~~J~OOpm 

L-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------J 
·Suggested retail price. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS
111 with the T-register.  
.10 1976 Texas Instruments Incorporated  INCORPORATED  65539  
• • ,'  ,'  '.,  l  .,  \  ,·  ,·  ... ...... \'  


'Thursday, September 2, 1976 the observer
In graduate study 
National consortium formed to aid rriinorities 
A national consortium of 19 universities and eight research laboratories to encourage minority students to seek graduate degrees in engineering has been announced 
The consortium's goal is to increase by 100 the annual number of minority students receiving a master's degree in engineering. In 1973, only 104 of the 17,700 grees went to Spanish-surnamed Americans and only 15 master's and one doctoral degree wee awarded to American Indian stu­dents. 
sortium apporach to the education and trainng of engineers could offer a model for similar solutions to the problems of minority repre­sentation in other career fields.'' 
may decide to pursue the doctorate will require other support. . The program is funded by a $15,000 annual membership fee paid by each laboratory or industri­

by Dr. Joseph C. Hogan, dean of engineering master's degrees and The consortium's vice-president al member of the consortium, and
"The great battle is still in the
the College of Engineering at Notre 13 of the 3,890 doctoral degrees is Theodore 'J. Habarth, affirma­by partial tuition remission by the
field of economic opportunity,"
Dame. tive action officer at the Applied universities. Hogan said the
were awarded to Bla~ Americans, said Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, Physics Laboratory, Johns Hopkins consortium will seek foundationThe consortium will offer finan­according to a 1974 report of the C.S.C., a supporter of the consor­University, and Philip J. Faccenda, support for administration and will
cial support and practical labora­Planning Commission for Expand­tium. "Too often our commitment 
general counsel for NotreDame, is try to expand the membership base
tory experience to minority stu­ing Minority Opportunities in En­to achieving equal opportunity in secretary-treasurer. Dr. stuart T. to include private industries as welldents, specifically, Black Ameri­gineering. At the same time, only this country is not accompanied by McComas, professor of aerospace as federally funded laboratories.
cans, Puerto Ricans and American 93 master's and 11 doctoral de-positive action programs. A con-
and . mechanical engineering at The participating universities in­Indians, while they pursue a mas­Notre Dame, has been appointed clude the California, Georgia, lll­ter's degree in engineering. An temporary executive director. inois and Masschusetts InstitutesIndiana nonprofit corporation, the of Technology; Tuskegee Institute;
National Consortium for Graduate Capable minority engineering
Latest poll shows 
Arizona State, Boston, Cornell,

Degrees for Minorities in Engin­students will be recruited during Howard, Johns Hopkins. North
eering, Inc., will be located at their junior year from every ac­Carolina A&T, Purdue, Rice and
Notre Dame. credited engineering school in the Stanford Universities, and the Uni­country. Applicants may be offer­
Ford gains on Carter
Hogan, who is chairman of the versities of Florida, Illinois, Michi­
ed summer employment by one of 
board of directors and president of gan, Notre Dame and Texas.
the participating research centers. 
the corporation, said that while by Patrick E. Cole ~oters who lack confidence in continuation in the program then Participating laboratories in­recent efforts have increased the Senior Staff Reporter America's future· will, according to depends on satisfactory perfor­clude Argonne National Labora­
number of minority students pur­the survey, vote .53 percent for tory, Bell Telephone Laboratories,
mance and acceptance in the 
suing undergraduate degrees in Carter and 33 percent for Ford. Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Johns
graduate program of one of the 
engineering, most minorities are At the end of the Democratic and Hopkins Applied Physics Labora­
participating universities. Each 
underrepresented in research la-Republican National Conventions, tory, Oak Ridge National Labora­
student will receive a $3,000 fel­
President Gerald R. Ford has cut Nixon and change favor Carter tory, Sandia Laboratories, Savan­
boratories. Most professions in a lowship for the academic year as
down Jimmy Carter's lead in the nah River Laboratory and Sanford
research lab already have graduate well as tuition, which will be shared
polls according to a survey released Linear Accelerator Center.
degrees, Hogan said, and anyone by the consortium and the univer­
by Time magazine. Ford's pardon of former Presi­
hired with only an undergraduate dent Richard M. Nixon and the sity attended. Most students will ~''-"•t••·~"~""''ltt..'-'-'-'-~ sentiment among voters for change
degree is at a distinct disadvantage Carter now only holds 46 percent spend three summers working at a 1 PLAYLANU -i in that atmosphere. The univer­of the public's vote while Ford in the White House are the major research laboratory. Participation I GOLF CENT'II:R . OJIII 
sities and laboratories recognize commands 40 percent. Fourteen factors maintaining Carter's lead in in the program terminates when iii I" the need for a co-operative effort to percent of the voters remain unde­the survey. the student receives the mashter ,.~11!
ff1

attract more minority students to cided. These findings are a result Fifty-one percent of the respon­degree in engineering, and neit er ~ r: 
of a nationwide telephone survey
pursue graduate degrees, he said. dents were against Ford's pardon laboratory nor student has a further
taken of 1,544 registered voters by 
of Nixon. According to the commitment. Those students who ~ Yankelovich, Skelly and White, 
Yankelovich study, this factor " German chemist Inc., an opinion research firm, continues to hang like a cloud over 
between August 20 and August 24. Senior picnic ; "NIGHT LIGHTED" ~ 
him." The need for new leadershipvisits ND lab was indicated by 81 percent of the I 9 HOLE • PAR 3 GOLF COURSE ~ 
~DriYing Range 18 Hole Miniofure~ 

Jimmy Carter-a factor Carted voters. 
Set for FrI "d ay I Open Down Til 10,00 PM ~ 
First lady Betty Ford predicted a
Dr. Arnim Henglein, director ot .The annual .Senior class picnic ;jl LOCATED US 33 AT IRONWOOD ~ 
The research of the Yankelovich very close race between her hus­
the Hahn-meitner Institute for wtll be held Frtday, Sept. 3 senior~ ;J ,.
firm clearly displayed that 65 band and Democratic hopeful, Car­Nuclear Research and professor at class officers announced yesterday. ~ Call 288-0033~ ~ 
percent of the Ford voters indicated ter. Yet she pointed out in an 1the Technical University of Berlin, 
The picnic will begin at 4 p.m. at r. r.
an uncertainty about Carter as the interview by the Associated Press
is briefly visiting the Notre Dame the St, Mary's Clubhouse. Food ~ If Nn Ans Coli 282-2366 ~ 
reason for their choice of Ford. in Vail, Colorado last Monday that
Radiation Laboratory. He opened and beverages will be served at low :oJil 111~ LINCOLN WAY EAST so. lf"'P ~ 
the president has an advantage.
his three-day visit of Sept. 1 with cost. · .._._.,.,.,,,,,,,,.,..,-..:
Other reasons listed by the votersthe seminar "~ctron Attachment were Ford's popularity advantageand Detachment Reactions in Hy­over Carter, his experience in thedrocarbon Solutions." 
Oval Office and effectiveness as a 
During his stay at Notre Dame president. Ford, being a Republi­Dr.Henglein will be conferring wit~. can, had little impact on the voters' the resident chemists and observ­decision to choose him since only ing current radiation research pro­15 percent listed this as a factor. 
jects. His work in electro-and photochemistry will also be discus­According to Time Magazine's sed. State of the Nation Indicator, a 
measure of the people's confidenceDr. Henglein, born in Cologne in in America, of those who are1926, completed his undergraduate optimistic about the nation's future work at the University of Karlsruhe 
49 percent favor Ford while 37in Germany. He obtained his percent are bound to Carter. Those
Ph.D. at the University of Mainz, Germany, while working at the Max Planck Institute for Chemistry 
r-:r;,;;-;.s·~···~
and was affiliated with the Univer­sity of Cologne from 1955 to 1958 
: difference!!! :
and Mellon Institute (Carnegie­Mellon University), Pittsburgh fr­: l'lffMif! 1'011 : om 1958 to 1960. C Ower ~ '"" •
• M AT 
OlfllllllfftCI • 

: DAT ··-:CIU : 
""'11

: LSAT '""" :
CAPITAUSM AND SEX 

: GRE Voluiii~IIOUI hooRt • Two dynamic themes of : GMAT ''udy:'''"'1' : : QCAT Coursu 1~11 '" · •
American civilization come 
: (pAT 
corlll:lly updlltd :

to life on the screen of the Western Drive-In Theatre • VAT fapt IKohltu lor : 
• ,.,,., ol c1111 •
this weekend in these : 5AT ltnons 1nd lor un • R-rated films: • FLEX ol suppl'"''"''"' • 
• "''trro•ls •· : ECFMG .....:,1., :
Nurses for Sale 

• lllosnd ltuons ::
Females for Hire 

Girls for Rent i NAT'L MED BDS : : NAT'L DENT BDS ; 
o o o II '

The Western, exclusive o o o • • 
•. Most claoMo otar( 8 weeks :
exhibitor of meretricious pnor to Exam 
Sprong & Fall compacu :

movies in the area, •• 
Some courses offered on e

recommends these three • MaJOr Campuoes e films for students in pre­• • • • • • • • • ••
•

: Stanley H. Kaplan Agency
med, economics (macro), • 
• 
Park Square Avenue
sociology, and American • 831 _ , : 
Bloomington. Indiana 47401 •

studies as well as for Georgina Spelvin freaks. • CHICAGO CENTER : • 
1 

The Western is located six 13121 764-5151 : 1 miles west of Main Street on scenic Western Avenue (St. Rd. 2). (Unfortunately, 
=~·-fl!:
iMIUN i
one reaches the Western 
• .EDUCATIONAL CENTfll ~
before the scenic part.) The 
.. .. 1'151' Nfi'AtiiiA1't(Mtit 
U'lCIAliS.. SIWf .,. '•

driver will be admitted free A 
.,....---......... ~

· with this ad. Passengers •
·11'12):1».. 

pay $2 each. 
_.c-'4':'7-~' "~: ~ ~ c·•~• ·­

As seen in the Yankelovich study, Mrs. Ford said her hus­band's strength lies in his experi­ence in Congress and in the presidency. She labeled the Carter -Mondale ticket as a "strange combination" since Carter was a Southern Baptist conservative and Mondale was "to the extreme the other way." 
Mrs. Ford said that the Presi­dent's pardon of Nixon has been raised as a campaign issue al­though Carter and Mondale said they would not mention the pardon issue. 
WELCOME HOME SPECIAL!!! 

$125.00 UNBELIEVABLE!! 40 WATTS/CHANNEL 
321 S. Main downtown Next to Indiana Bell 288-1681 open 12-6 daily 



Toman a~~ed to Irish coaching staff 
by Paul Stevenson 
The Irish coaching staff has a new face this season in Ron Toman, coordinator of quarterbacks and receivers. Toman replaces Ed Chlebek, who left to· become head coach at Eastern Michigan during the summer. 
Toman should easily adjust to the Devine system, having played for Devine at the University of Missouri until graduating in 1960. Upon graduation, he remained as a graduate assistant coach while earning his master's degree in education. 
In 1962 Toman became a full­time coach, spending a year at ~1 S~ringfiled (Mo.) High School a:1d Rich Central High School in Park Forest, Illinois. 
After two years on the high school level,Toman moved on to serve as head coach at Missouri ~outhern ~unior College from 1Q63­
66. From Missouri Southern:;'· he went to Witchita State and North­east Missouri State, spending two

I years at each school.
I 
Then in 1970, Toman advanced

I 
to Tulane University where he 

~ 
coached the offensive backfield for five years.

~ 
He went into the private bus­
iness field after leaving Tulane, a 
busines career which lasted only four months, before being tempted with the opportunitY to coach at Notre Dame. 

''This place is top-drawer; ev­erybody knows about Notre Dame," Toman remarked. "This school has tremendous loyalty in its alumni and the recruiting is excellent. I'm very pleased to have a chance to coach here,'' he added. 
Coach Toman found the transi-


Ron Toman 

tion to life at Notre Dame a fairly easy one. "When you move to a different place, it's usually pretty hard to adjust,'' he stated. ''In my case the change was a little easier, having already known Coaches 
Notre Dame football tickets distributed to students 
Juniors, Graduate, Law and all students in their ninth semester or high may obtain their football tickets today from 8:30a.m. to 4:30 
p.m. Sophomores may pick up their tickets tomorrow from 8:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. Freshmen tickets will also be available tomorrow from 1 :30 p.m. to 4:30p.m. 
Distribution will occur through Windows #1 and #2 on the second floor of the ACC. Students will be given season tickets upon presenta­

'· tion of their athletic certification cards (GREEN punch card). Students wishing to be seated together must present their certifi­cations at the same time. No student may ·present more than four certifications for adjacent seat­ing. Crowd control gates and security personnel will be utilized during distribution. Students are asked to go directly to the end of the line when arriving at the ACC and to avoid pushing and shoving. Secur­ity personnel will confiscate the certifications of any student acting disorderly. Students having their certifications confiscated will be issued after all other students have been accommodated. 
Since the Oregon game will be played on Saturday, Oct. 16, the first day of the fall midsemester break, a ticket for that game will not be included in the student season ticket. Students desiring a Oregon ticket may obtain one by presenting their season ticket and ID card at a time and place to be determined later in September. There will be no charge for this ticket. 
While there is no charge for tickets to undergraduates, gradu­ate and law students will be charged $12 for a season ticket. This ticket does not include the Oregon game. Oregon tickets will be available to these students in late September for $3. 
Married students cannot procure their tickets with their class. These students should present their ath­letic certification along with evi­dence of their married status, at the Ticket Office in the ACC between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. 
Turn in the certification with $12 (again, this ticket excludes the Oregon game) for a spouse's ticket for which the student will be issued a receipt. 
Couples wishing seats adjacent must turn in certifications together and advise the ticket clerk accor­dingly. 
Tickets can then be picked up on Tuesday, Sept. 7, between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. by presenting your receipt at the ACC Ticket Office. 
No applications will be accepted after Sept. 2 for any reason. 
Attention! 
There will be a meeting for anyone, male or female, who is interested in joining
• "f''7e Observer sports staff tonight at 7:30 in The Observer office 
Devine, 'Johnson, Kuhlmann' and 
Peay," the new coach acknowl­
edged. 
Adjusting the · the change in 
scenery may have been an easy 
undertaking, but coaching a posi­. tion that was so controversial last 1 season is not quite as simple. 
"I wasn't here last season, so 
those problems are not as well­
known to me," Toman said. "Last 
year is in the past and we have this 
season to look forward to,'' he 
added. 
Deciding who is going to fill the 
number one quarterback spot is an 
extremely difficult tast. · "Both 
Rick (Slager) and 'Joe (fv.i.ontana) 
are great athletes,'' Toman com­
mented. ''They each excel in 
different areas of the game." 
"We'll just have to play it by ear, 
one week at a time,'' he added, 
"and decide which type of quarter­
back will be most successful in the 
upcoming game." 
"Even though one of them 
starts, ;1e could be having a bad 
day, so we can replace him, giving 
the substitute the advantage of 
having been able to see what's 
going on from the sidelines," 
Toman said. 
This season could find the Irish 
with a little more speed in their 
receivers. MQving sophomore Tom 
Domin to flanker should boost the -to make their contributions to the ND passing attack. starting line-up. 
..-------·::--------.. 
*Observer 
Sports 
Montana injured in scrimmage 
Quarterback Joe MontllDa left yesterday's scrimmage with a sep­aration of the right shoulder. The 
extent of the InJury  Is  not  fully  
known at this time.  
The  shoulder  will  be  set  and  

placed In a cast for the time being. If the InJury falls to respond to this treatment, surgery may be deemed necessary, In which case Montana would miss the entire season. 
Band members and prospective band members will not be issued student tickets, but must turn in athletic certification cards to the Band Director's office in Washing­ton Hall. 
Students must present an lD card for admission to all home football games. 
Dahr/ing named 
Debbie Dahrling has been nam­ed to the new position of St. Mary's Sports Editor. The appointment was announced last night by Obser· ver Sports Editor Fred Herbst. 
Dahrling, a St. Mary's sopho­more from Albuquerque, N.M., willbe in charge of coordinating coverage of all St. Mary's athletic 1 news and events. 
Correction noted 
In yesterday's football article listing the probable starting line­ups for the opening g:1me, Ted Horansky was mistakenly listed as a probable starter at offen::;ive tackle. 
Elton Moore is currently rated slightly ahead of Horansky on the team's depth chart and therefore appears to be a probable starter at this point in time. 

Rick Slager: Coach Toman's m :.1ber one man. 
"Our speed is good and Tom should be able to help us out a lot, "Toman stated. 
"We are also looking at fresh­menSpeedy Hartand Tighe Dicker­son and hope that they will be able 
Ron Toman seems to have ad­justed quickly· to Notre Dame, and with the combination of his coach­
. ing ability and the talent he has to work with, the Irish can expect a lot from thier quarterbacks and re­ceivers. 
Rozelle limits NFL squads 
NEW YORK (AP) -National Foot­ball League teams, with the excep­tion of Seattle and Tampa Bay, will be limited to 43 players this season, NFL Commissioner Peter Rozelle 
said Wednesday night. 
The twt· expansion teams-the Seattle Seahawks and Tampa Bay Buccaneers-will be allowed to carry six additional players for the

Cagers take to first two games, then 45 after that. However, the teams may only the diamond dress 43 players for any game. Rozelle said the teams must 
Head Basketball Coach Digger reach their player limit by Monday, Phelps and his cagers foresake Sept. 6, at 2 p.m., EDT. the hardwood for the diamond this 
In other action taken at an all-daySunday for their annual softball meeting here, the NFL ownersgame. The battle will be staged at extended the interconference tra­Jake Kline Field at 2 p.m. and will ding deadline to 4 p.m., EDT,involve the entire varsity team and coaching staff. 
Wednesday, Sept. 8. The intracon­
Admission is free and Coach ference trade deadline is Oct. 19, Phelps urges students to attend the Tuesday following the sixth and JOin in the fun. week of the regular season. 
Pro football lottery begins 
DOVER, DEL. (AP) -Delaware 
kicked off its controversial pro 
football lottery games Wednesday 
with high hopes of turning a profit 
and indications that plenty of fans 
and some other states will be 
watching to see if the court block 
the betting games. 
Spot checks with a few of the 150 
lottery agents handling two million 
tickets for the football wagering 
showed player interest higher than 
for other new lottery games. 
State lottery officials said it was too early to predict first-week volume because sales are not made until tickets are filled out, bets from $1 to $10 are placed and the lottery agent validates the ticket. 
Peter M. Simmons, state lottery director, said he expected most players to take the tickets home over the weekend to watch National Football Le.eue exhibition games before makiRg tlaeir sele~ions. The first tickets list NFL games for the week beginDinl Sept. 12, the start of the regular season. 
Delaware is offering two football­related games. In "Touchdown," players must pick the winners of three, four or five NFL games along with the correct point spread from printed tickets that resemble computer printout cards. In "Foot­ball Bonus," a player must simply pick the winners of 7 or 14 games, depending on his bet. Prizes are determined on a parimutuel basis. 
Delavware faces a federal court 
fight next month whether it is 
infringing on trademark rights or 
violating federal laws by offering 
state run lotteries tied to profes­
sional football. 
Last week, a U.S. District Court 
refused an NFL request for a 
temporary restraining order to 

immediately block the betting. A 
trial is scheduled for the same 
court, beginning Nov. 1. 

Simmons is hoping for total sales of about $6 million during the 14-week pro football season. That would net the state about $2 million. 
There are indications that lottery officials ir other states are more than casually-interested in the NFL-Delaware fight but none has reported plans to immt>diately jump iate the sport pool game&. 
Peansylvania already had a state attorney general's opinion that it& lottery law would allow sports pool betting. One member of the state lottery commh;sion, Donald Cox, this week predicted that sports pool betting could raise $SO per year in Pennsylvania. 
The NFL contends that allowing betting on pro football will harm the game. A spokesman said it will compound the problem of policing illegal gambling, and could hurt the integrity of the game because fans might worry more about their bets than their home team. ­







