
Through Alumni Club 
Summer placement plans underway
by Barbara Breitenstein 
~~ 
Tentative plans for a summer placement program through the Notre Dame Alumni Club presidents were made during the national board of the University's Alumni Association's annual winter meeting last week. 
By coordinating the effort with club presidents and students here, the program hopes to relieve some of the work now left to the University placement office, according to Ed Byrne, student body president. 
"The alumni club presidents don't have any idea where to start," Byrne stated. "With student effort here, we could get much better results. It wouldn't be such a burden on the presidents." 
Byrne discussed the program with two members of the board 01 directors, Joe White and Jim Hunt, who began work on the project last year. 
"They checked things out before," Byrne reported, "and said last week that things had almost reached the point where we can start work on this end.'' 
The program will consist of sending a list of students' resumes to alumni club presidents who will contact ND graduates in their cities in order to tinct available jobs for students. Students here will keep in weekly contact with club presidents and will gather and send resumes. 
"We hope to start a pilot program in Washington, D.C.," Byrne continued, "but we probably won't place too many students this summer. It's all very tentative now." 
A Senior Alumni Night at the Senior Bar is also tentatively scheduled for Senior Week. according to Byrne. This will afford seniors the l.'hance to meet the Alumni Club presidents from the cities where they will be working after graduation. 
The selection of 12 nominees for six board positions to be chosen at the Alumni Senate meeting in April and the selection of this year's recipient of the Association's Sorin Award for distinguished service as an alumnus were discussed in last week's meeting. 
The board, chaired by Association President John O'Brien of Birmingham, Ala., also made plans for the Senate meeting, the Universal Notre Dame Night, a meeting of one hundred Alumni Clubs, by Jayne Rfzzo and for the June reunion. A five-year plan of future Alumni Board Staff Reporter meetings to be held on campus was also approved. 
Among those who addressed the board were Just Paczesny, vice 
The Notre Dame Student Union president for Student Affairs, John N. Cackley, executive director of 
has experienced an extensive over­the Association. and Richard "Digger" Phelps, head basketball coach. 
haul of its operational processes Other projects approved by the board, which will be put into effect 
during the last semester, according to Tom Birsic, director.

this year, are an extension of the Alumni Continuing Education program and the establishment of an alumni summer hotel in Lewis 
The most important difference, according to Birsic, is the attitude

Hall. The directors also approved applications for membership to the 
of the· personnel. The commission­Alumni Association, and received a report on their annual fund. 
ers are all responsible, and increa­sed co-operation between the vari-

Formerly exclusive universities seek more women, minorities 
EDITOR'S NOTE: This Is the third In a three-part series of articles Investigating d.e poUcles for the admission of women and minorities Into undergraduate col­leges and unlvenltles. The .first story examined the admissions policies for women at Notre Dame and the second explored the admis­sion of minorities to the Unlvenlty. 
by Patrick Cole 
Staff Reporter 

Those predominantly white and formerly all-male colleges that switched to a coed student body generally have a common goal in their admissions policies: to in­crease the number of women and minorities. 
We have seen how the policies of Notre Dame's admission offic~ have been used to attract and increase members of these two groups to the University. What is the nature of the admissions poli­cies at colleges similar to Notre Dame? 
Sex-blind admissions 

Unlike Notre Dame, other col­leges formerly all-male and now coed have a sex-blind admissions policy for women. In selecting applicants for a given incoming freshman class, there exists no quota for women. "Women are admitted without any differentiat­ion at our school," said James Schweikhardt, director of admiss­ions at the University of Santa Clara in California, operated by the Society of Jesuits. 
Santa Oara University, which went coeducational in 1961, has 3,200 students, of which 41 per cent are women. 

Most Ivy League institutions such as Yale, l:larvard and Prince­ton, adhere to the same policy for women. 
Harvard College, in Cambridge, Massachusetts, is experiencing its first year of a unified admissions· office. "Harvard is coeducational through Harvard College and Rad­cliffe College," revealed Bill Fitz­simmons, co-director of under­graduate admissions at Harvard. "Nevertheless, all students receive a degree under the name of Harvard College and there exist no quotas for women." 
Yale and Princeton Universities introduced coeducation to their student body in the late 1960's. In 1972, Yale abandoned a quota for women; last year, Princeton swit­ched to the sex-blind admir.sions policy. 
Ohio Dominican College in Col­umbus, a formerly all-female col­lege which went coed in 1964, has abandoned the quota policy for men. Of the 1,100 students, women compose 55 per cent of the student body. "Once scholarships were offered to encourage men to come 
here," stated Bob Anderson, assis· 
tant director of admissions at Ohio 
Dominican. Said Susan McGough, 
director of admissions at Ohio 
Dominican, "I am very opposed to 
having quotas--especially for wo­
men." 
Notre Dame, having limited fe­
male accommodations, must limit 
the number of women admitted. 
Since these other colleges have coeductttional housing facilities, a blind-sex policy for admissions does not call for drastic changes to be made in facilities. Ai!cording to Timothy C. Callard, director of admissions at Princeton, if more women enroll in the University, "it would not affect the campus." 
'''The facilities can be used by either men or women," he said. "Some dormitories are single-sex and some are coed. In the event that many women enrolled--more than anticipated--only the bath­room facilities would be of concern; they would have to be converted." 
Princeton has 4,400 undergrad­uates of which 1,400 are women. 
Minority enroUment poUcles 
At other admissions offices of predominantly white colleges, one finds the emphasis on increasing the number of minority students. "As for minorities," continued Schweikhardt of Santa Clara Uni­versity, "we admit the student who is qualified. Yet we make every effort to encourage minorities to come.'' 
"We recruit for minorities," he continued. "But this is a popular misconception. This may be be­lieved to pertain to students who are not prepared. We admit those minority students who are able to succeed." 
At Harvard, all students are evaluated by the same criteria according to Fitzsimmons. Like Notre Dame, efforts are made to encourage minority applicants in the applicant pool. 
(continued on page 3) ous areas of the Student Union makes it a much smoother running organization than it has been in the past. 


The facet of the Student Union which met with the most criticism last year was its finances. Changes implemented in the budget policy have shrunk last year's $91,000 deficit figure considerably. ''The emphasis has been on foresight and budgeting," stated Birsic, "and we're pretty pleased with the results so far." 
With a cash flow of approximate­ly $750,00 per year, management of finances is critical. This year, the money power has been centralized, whereas in the past, each commis­sion had its own business mana­gers, and no one co-ordinator was aware of the organization's overall financial state. Comptroller Jim Hummer says the commissions have all stayed in their budgets except one. 
The Services Commission was one of those that made money last semester. They started an Off ­Campus Newsletter containing events on and off campus, but it will not be kept up this semester due to the cost. Last year's controversial summer storage pol­icy will be reviewed in the next few days, and Services Commissioner Casey Nolan stated they were open for suggestions. The campus re­frigerator sales went well this year, but hopes for next year include the elimination of a middle man to increase the profits for the Student Union without over-charging the student purchasers. The movie policy on campus was revamped to reduce the number of conflicting show times. Also the number of clubs participating was limited. This year, every club sponsoring a movie made money, while last year many clubs lost money due to audience over-saturation. 
The Services Commission is re­sponsible for putting together the Freshman Register, distributing telephone books, and running the book exchange. Between semes­ters, over $4,000 changed hands in this operation. "There is always a need for more people to help on special projects," said Nolan. "We want to be of the greatest service to the greatest number of students." 
Last semester's concert lineup was one of the best in years, according to Birsic. There is a new 
~ 
chairman of concerts who contacts the groups directly, rather than dealing with a mediating agent in New York, which was much more expensive. The concert schedule is expected to be just as appealing this semester. 
The Academic Commission 
sponsored many diversified speak­
ers last semester. Many well ­
known figures spoke about their 
special areas of concern. Toward 
the end of the semester, the rather 
sparse attendance began to pick 
up. This semester, the commission 
is planning to bring in a few 
speakers in conjunction with other 
groups. 
Senator Sam Irvin may be able to speak, and a lecture series in conjunction with the economics department is featured. Academic Commissioner Dennis Pijor stated, "We're bringing in the larger names so the whole University will want to come." 
The major accomplishment for the Social Commission according to Charlie Moran, was the re-estab­lished confidence at the South Bend Armory after a year and a half of distrust. 
There are three armory parties slated for this semester and the first, on Friday night, was deemed most successful by Moran. Two other dances are scheduled also: one for the Mock Convention and a dance marathon for Logan Center. 
Headlining for coming attract­ions are The Amazing Kreskin, and the National Lampoon Comedy team. The Wackie Winter Week­end promises fun in the snow. The Quickie was a much-utilized and much-appreciated asset which is continuing during this semester. Both the Nazz and Darby's Place featured a variety of special talent. Homecoming was a financial suc­cess as well as being "definitely one of the best dances at Stepan in quite some time," according to Social Commissioner Kathy Smouse. 
Annual events comprise many of the activities sponsored by the Student Union. These include the Sophomore Literary Festival, the Midwest Blues Festival, Mardi Gras, An Tostal and the Collegiate Jazz Festival. New activities com­ing up include the Mock Political Convention, the Black Cultural Arts Festival and the Bicentennial 
(continued on page 7) 

r 
2 the observer Tuesday, january 27, 1976 
------~~~~~~------------------~ 
r ~-News Briefs 
I=========International Worst is over 
BEIRUT, Lebanon--Cease-fire "enforcer teams" toured Beirut yesterday using bullhorns to urge rival gunmen to clear the streets. . Despite the aura of impending peace, Christian concern mounted 
over the growing Palestinian role in Lebanon. 
The general feeling in Beirut was that the worst of civil war is over. However, the country remained virtually partitioned between heavily armed Moslem and Christian camps with a political settlement on paper only. 
UN vetoes Palestinian state 
UMTED NATIONS, N.Y.-:The United States vetoed a resolution last night that would have put the Security Council on record in favor of Palestinian statehood. 
It was the 13th Security Council veto cast by the United States and the fourth dealing with a Middle East issue. 
I===============National r= Another tax cut possible 
WASIDNGTON--President Ford told Congress that another major tax cut for Americans will be possible by 1979 if federal spending is held in check. 
Ford gave no indication how large the new tax cut could be. But he made clear it would be in addition to the $28 billion in permanent reductions he already has proposed for this year. 
Pot doesn't affect brain 
NEW YORK--Chronic marijuana use was not found to be associated with any permanent or irreversible impairment in higher brain function or intelligence in a study of native Costa Ricans. 
The study results were said to be compatible with earlier controlled studies, but went further by employing additional controls. Researchers cautioned, however, that a final answer is not yet in. 
On Campus Today 
3:30p.m. --computer course, "ibm job control language and utilities," room 1125 math building 
6:30p.m. --seminar, "the impact of federal income taxes on business decisions," by ken milani and james witten bach, hayes-healy. 
7 p.m. --me~ting, mock convention platform committee, room 127 meuwland. 7 p.m. --lecture, "origami aerodynamics," by prof. vincent goddard, room 12 aerospace lab. 7 p.m. --meeting, graduate student union, room 317 admin. building. 7:30p.m. --prayer meeting, Iafortune rathskellar 
St. Mary's students to tour Bendix, Uniroyal, Tribune 
by Kathy Byrne Staff Reporter 
St. Mary's College is hosting a 
series of detailed tours of several 
corporations in the South Bend 
area. 
Sponsored by the Community Relations Council, the tours will take groups of25 to Bendix on Feb. 9th, Uniroyal on Feb. 12 and the South Bend Tribune on Feb. 17. 
Sue Devita of the council stres­
sed that the project was primarily 
for sophomores and juniors. 
"We feel that it will give 
students a chance to see what can 
be done with their majors. Most 
seniors already have a pretty good 
idea of what they'll be doing, or 
else are working with the career 
development office already." 
Sign ups for the tours are being 
held on a first come-first serve 
basis, with priority given to soph­
omores and juniors. Final sign up 
days are: Bendix -Jan. 26; Unirov­
( ·;The Observer ) 
Night Editor: Bob Brink 
Ass't Night Editor: Maureen 
Flynn 
Layout: J eff Norkus 
Copy Reader: Jack D' Aurora 
Day Editor: Don Reimer 
Editorials: Ken Girouard 
Features: Corby St.reet Ma­
rauders 
Sports: Bill Brink 
Ad layout: Joe Graif 
Typists: Mel Celeste, Tessie 
Clements 
l.Ni~ht Control~er: . David Ru~t ) 
al -Jan. 28 and South Bend Tribune by Feb. 3. 
The council has asked the com­panies to provide female speakers in as many areas as possible. They feel that this will give St. Mary's students a clearer picture of the roles women play in large corporat­ions. 
This is the first year that the Community Relations Council has sponsored a project of this nature. It is being tested out on an experimental basis. If the project goes well this semester, the council hopes to expand it next year. 
Tile Ob~erver i~ published Monday through Friday and weekly during tile ~ummer session, except during exam~ and vacation periOds. The Observer os published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and sr Mary's College: Subscriptions may lie purchased for 10 dollars per semester 118 dollars per yearl from The Ob· server, Box Q, Notre Dame, In diana. ~556. Second Class postage 
paid. Notre Dame, IN ~556. 

ND World Hunger Coalition sets goal of 1000 volunteer tasters 
by Mary Mungovan Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition will launch a pledge drive today and tomorrow in the dining halls to recruit volunteers for the Wednesday Night Fast Program, Co-chairman Doug Allen announ­ced yesterday. 
"Each student who signs a pledge agrees to fast on Wednes­day evenings from Feb. 4 until May 5, excluding finals week," Allen stated. "For each participant, the Coalition receives 75 cents per night from the Dining Hall." 
Approximately 500 students par­ticipated in last semester's pro­gram for which the Coalition re­ceived over $4,000, according to Ceyl Prinster, communications dir­ector. When the fast program first began in the spring of 1975, the Coalition raised only $1100. 
"We've intensified this semes­ter's campaign in the hopes of reaching our new goal of 1,000 

volunteers,'' Allen related. 
"Money is not our only goal," he continued. "By fasting, we hope people can come to realize how it feels to be hungry, even if it's only for one night a week." 
According to Greg Gramelspach­er, Coalition research director, three-fourths of the money goes to overseas agencies such as CORR, CARE, and UNICEF and one ­fourth to the poor of South Bend. 
"Each of the agencies has been thoroughly researched by the Coal­ition's Research Committee," Prinster explained. "All overseas charities have to be international in scope and operate with maximum efficiency and minimum overhead to be selected," she added. 
The World Hunger Coalition was begun in November, 1974, to "educate the Notre Dame and South Bend community about glo­bal hunger" and to raise money for the hungry, according to Allen. Last semester, in addition to the fast program, the Coalition spon-
Busing for Mardi Gras ends; defeated by vote of HPC 
by James Flahaven Staff Reporter 
This year marks the first time that Notre Dame will not invite women in from outside schools for Mardi Gras. 
It had become a tradition, before Notre Dame went co-educational, to invite women from various mid-west colleges here for the Mardi Gras weekend. But with the growing enrollment of women at Notre Dame, tiJere came to be a strong resentment of bringing in outsiders. So this year there will be no invitations sent to women of other colleges. 
Stanford Hall President Bob Ryan said, "It was brought up before the Hall President's Council and was voted down because there 

But Keenan Hall President Bill Fallon stated, ''It was a good idea in previous years, but it has phased itself out." Donna Crowley, Farley Hall President, said, "I think most of the women at Notre Dame are glad it is not going to be held." 
Even though there will be no women guests brought in this year, there will still be a party on the North Quad, as in past years. Again this year the party will be held in the North Dining Hall. The 
North Quad halls, including St. Edwards, Cavanaugh and Lewis are sponsoring the party. Mem­bers of those halls will be admitted free, all others can pay a one dollar admission fee at the door. Music will be by "Flight." 
sored an Offering of Letters Drive to support a Right-to-Food Resolut­ion in Congress and sent four delegates to the National Univers­ity Conference on Hunger in Aus­tin, Texas. 
"Activities for this semester 
include a community education 
program to inform campus and 
South Bend communities about the 
problems of global injustice, a 
monthly newsletter and a monthly 
vegetarian meal," Prinster said. 
"The World Hunger Coalition is 
concerned not just with hunger, but 
with the problems of global poverty 
and injustices which cause hun­
ger," Prinster stated. 
Gardner guest 

artist for festival 
John Gardner, fiction-writer and medieval scholar, will complete the list of guest artists to appear at the Sophomore Literary Festival, SLF Chair Michelle Quinn announced yesterday. 
Gardner is the author of six novels as well as several textbooks and articles on medieval history. His critically acclaimed book Gren­del relates the story of Beowulf from the viewpoint of the hero's monster-antagonist. His novel The Sunlight Dialogues appeared for 14 weeks on the New York Times Best-Seller list. 
While still in graduate school, Gardner was awarded fellowships by the Woodrow Wilson and Dan­forth foundations. He held a Guggenheim Fellowship from 1970 to 1973 and has been honored by the National Endowment for the Arts. 
Gardner, who is currently teach­ing medieval English literature at Southern Illinois University-Car­bondale, will appear at the Festival Mon., February 16. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
was so much flack over it." Denis lARMANDO IS NOW LOCATED NEAR CAMPUSf Sullivan, president of Grace Hall, felt that the "no" vote reflected a 
TO GIVE YOU THE CUT OR STYLE YOU WANTf 
preference on the students' part to avoid the controversy of previous 
years. 
't 
H!~~~~~~~e~:~·:h~;~t~=~~~:~~. 
much the resentment by the wo­men at Notre Dame that brought l
the "Cattle Drive" to an end. "The event itself was a let-down. After a big build-up, the weekends were kind of anti-climatic.'' 
Before Notre Dame went co-edu­cational, as many as 900 women came for the Mardi Gras and the annual party each year. Originally the Office of Student Affairs ex­tended the invitations, but because of the controversy, it ended the practice two years ago. When Student Affairs ended its involve­ment, the extending of invitations became the prerogative of the halls. Last year only 350 women were asked to come, with the invitations being extended by Grace, Keenan, Stanford and Zahm residence halls. 

of'C.mando'j_  Ba'C.bt:.'C.  & c:Hai'C. St!J[E Sf~oj2  f  
vPEN SIX DAYS A WEEK  t  
PEMORNDASYTQHRNuFRAIDAL,·e/TZo5E:30D·  sSATEURRDAYVeT/OC4E  t 

t 
ARMANDO FEMIA 1437 N. IRONWOOD DR .• 
"0615

FOR APPT. f 
------------------' 

IS YOUR CAR INSURANCE 
· 

TOO HIGH??? TRY OURS 
Gerry Conway 
First Equity Insurance 256-0263 or 277-1964 LIFE-HEALTH-AUTO -FIRE 

from 5:15-6:30 p.m. or call7085or7524 
from 7 p.m. -9p.-m. 
NO '68 
Ryan saw some advantages to ._--------------------------~
bringing in  women for the week­ 
end. "I kind of wanted it because it allowed some people who would not normally go out the chance to.''  Juniors!!!  
With  more  women  there,  those  
that usually wouldn't go might be  
Sign up for Senior Portraits Now!  
VVed.Jan.21-Fri.Jan.30  
at Dining Halls  


3 


Minority scholarships offered 
(continued from page 1) The John F. Kennedy Memorial minorities have good grades ana Fund. consjstent career goals.
"We recruit minorities through · "Based on this research, I think 3,100 alumni and a number of Effects of admitting Harvard is a good place for students," Fitzsimmons stated. minorities and women minorities," he said. "But it is not "Also we utilize the Talent Search a utopia.'' 

program. We tried to do this all of The initial reaction of women on Conclusion
the time. In recruiting, you cannot campus has varied at formerly
do just one thing. One must touch all-male colleges. "Women were In comparing the admissions all phases of it. We write to not received well at first," said policies of Notre Dame and other National Achievement Semifinal­Schweikhardt about Santa Clara. colleges, one finds similarities as ists, and the students and staff "Santa Clara was a bastion of male well as differences. 
make visits to students who may be supremacy and this had been a For women, Notre Dame uses a considering to apply to Harvard." tradition since 1841." quota system to aid in the transit­Through the support of the Schweikhardt further stated that ion of switching to a coed student 
admissions and financial aid offices women have pushed for athletic body. ·In other formerly all-male 
at Harvard, the black students have equality. Women participate in colleges, a quota system has been 
produced a booklet for potential club sports, but there are no abandoned since many of these black students to Harvard, Harvard scholarships for women athletes. schools went coed long before Radcliffe: An Introduction for Pro­According to Callard, some peo­Notre Dame and have passed 
spective Black Students, to sup­ple were for coeducation while through the transition stage. 
plement admissions brochures. others opposed it at Princeton. 
Callard of Princeton emphasized Overall, there was a "favorable, that there exists no special prog­overwhelming response for coed­rams for minorities. "We have ucation." faculty advisors and tutors for all Concerning the minority atmos­students to serve them," he stated. phere on campus, Fitzsimmons "Yet there are no special prog­spoke of the effects of admitting rams. Minority students may have minorities. "Initially, there is some problems, but we have a three tension when minorities, particu­
week orientation program to help larly blacks, are admitted," he them become acquainted with indicated. "When a small number Princeton. We want them to know of minority students enter, the what the work is like." effect is not so great. But when you 
A special recruitment program get a larger· group, there may be exists at Yale University. "This pressures in the minority commun­program is funded by the Univers­ity." ity and is headed by a director," Despite these pressures, Fitz­
said Worth David, dean of under­simmons pointed out that minority graduate admissions at Yale. students do better than their 
This program allows for travel in Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) order to reach minorities, and it has scores indicate suggesting that the an advisory committee consisting College Entrance Examination Boa of faculty members and deans of rd (CEEB) tests "are not the same 
the colleges ~ithin the University. for everyone." 
The Ivy League institutions, "I believe there is tremendous unlike Notre Dame's provision for a diversity among minorities at Har­special $3 million endowment for vard," Fitzsimmons continued. 
minority scholarships, have no "For example, with black students, special scholarship funds for minor I find there is no 'typical' black -ity students. student. I think that is very important.''
All tinancial aid is awarded on Fitzsimmons said that Harvardthe basis of need at Harvard and has passed through the tensionYale according to Fitzsimmons and stage. "We have a sizeable groupDavid. 

of minorities here," he stated. "A"At Princeton, we have been minority can come to Harvard andable to admit students and fulfill all be his own person. There is noneeds as stated by the Parents' pressure to be in a group or not."
Confidential Statement (PCS),' 'Cal­He cited a study done by research­lard remarked. 
er Bill Boyd the program, AAt the University of Santa Clara, Better Chance (ABC). The studyhowever, there is a special scholar­reports that Harvard has had good
ship fund for minority students minority student relations and that 
SMC fund-raising phone-a-than set 
by Jean Powley two hours and wtll then be allowed 
Staff Reporter to make one free phone call anywhere in the United States," she explained.
St. Mary's will appeal for alumnae Cost of the phone-a-thon will be
support through a phone-a­minimal because the college hasthon to take place every Tuesday, arranged to rent a Watts line forWednesday and Thursday evening the month.
in April, it was announced yester­Coordinator of the project isday by Cathy Coyne, student Terry Green, Director of Sustaining representative to the Development Programs in the Development Of­
Committee of the Board of Re­gents. 
fice. According to Coyne, Green This method of raising funds was thinks "we'll get more support if chosen because of the personal the students are involved" in the contact a phone call affords, as project. compared with that of the mail 
Anyone interested in volunteer approach. 
ing should contact Cathy Coyne at Students, faculty, staff and 4985 as soon as possible. 

alumnae will man 15 phones per night in an effort to contact between 7,000 and 8,000 St. Mary's alumnae across the country to reach the goal of $25,000. 
The money raised will go to unrestricted funds such as faculty salaries and scholarships and will help to prevent future increases in tuition costs. 
Coyne is responsible for student involvement in the project and is appealing for volunteer support from the entire student body. 
"I will need volunteers to go to the South Bend public library in groups of six or eight to look up the phone numbers in the national directories, first of all. I will also need students to do the actual calling on each of the 12 nights. Volunteers will be asked to work for 
THE 

RESUME PLACE 
25 8 1/2 X 11 
RAG BOND 
Only $2.55 

insty-prints · 
203 N. MAIN 
SO.BEND, IND 
289-6977 
As for minority recruitment, Notre Dame and other universities as well have made diligent efforts [Photo by Mike Kron]to reach out to these members of ethnic groups. As we have seen, Yale has a university-funded min­ority recruitment program. 

ND student body struck 
What future responsibilities does Notre Dame's admissions office face in light of the policies of other 

by influenza epidemic
universities? 

by Joe Gill epidemic, but "after seeing the"I wish that we did not have a Staff Reporter number of students who came toquota for women," stated Sister the infirmary this afternoon, IJohn Miriam Jones, assistant to the Dr. Helen Calvin of the student would say there was an epidemic."
provost. "But I think we have come infirmary said yesterday that there Today, Thompson said, he willa long way. I am encouraged by 

"definitely" is some type of flu bug be taking blood and throat washing what I see. We have no class that on campus. "At least 200 people samplings from various studentsexperienced an all-male Notre checked into the infirmary on already afflicted with the illness.
Dame." 

Sunday for treatment of the flu," These samplings will then be sent"I see more easiness amongst she said. to Indianapolis to determine whatmen and women," she continued. 
''There is a flu epidemic, and it type of influenza it is. 
"The women--they are competit­is characterized by high fever, Dr. William McCraley, countyive, and the men respect them for 

chills, generalized aching and physician, said that "the source ofthis. Some say that coeducation has coughing," she said. the illness must have come from onfailed. But I firmly believe we are 
Dr. Robert Thompson, Univer­campus. There is no local epidemic moving in the right direction." 
sity physician, said that it is hard to either in the city or in tht: county,''Father Theodore Hesburgh, 
define what and when there is an he said.
president of the University, ex­
pressed his sentiments about Notre 
Dame's commitment to minorities. 

New Detroit busing program
"Although we have a $3 million endowment for minorities, this amount does not begin to fully take care of their needs," he stated. "I 

unmarked by racial violence 
would like to see an endowment of $6 million." Detroit began the first stage A little less than 10 per cent "I have never been satisfied with of a court-ordered school in-of the city's 247,000 pupils will the number of minorities at Notre tegration program without 
be bused under the new pro­Dame," added Daniel J. Saracino, trouble on Monday, but the gram. Another 6,200 pupilsassociate director of admissions in struggle over busing continued 

have been transferred to new

charge of minority applicants. "Fa-in Boston with new disturb­ther Hesburgh said that we should ances at two high schools. schools, but will not be bused. never be satisfied with the number Thousands of black and white Detroit is the largest city in the of them." elementary school pupils board-United States to implement a 
However, these deficiencies, so ed buses in Detroit under the 
court-ordered integration plan.

little that they are, provide a path new program, although there About 75 per cent of the pupils
for the University to follow in were scattered indications of are black.
achieving these goals. support for a "yellow flu" boy­
"1 do not think coeducation is cott urged by antibusing 
GIVE OUR finished," Sister John Miriam groups. ENCHILADAS Jones continued. "I really think we Only pupils from kindergar-ATRYI! can make it better." ten through fifth grade had 
And with this intention, hopeful-classes on Monday. The older THE "BIG" AD Iy the responsibility to women and pupils will res.ume classes and scorrwu IWl RUNS ON minority admissions can be fulftl-start the busmg program on 291-3142 FRIDAY..... 
Jed. Tuesday.

'*************************************************:
!*TOhbe REPORTERS! f.
: server : 
*

Jpresents a 
*
*
* 

* *
*

!NEWS MEETING *
*
* 
*

* *
* *
* AND WORKSHOP *
** :* 
*
*

* TONIGHT 7 P.M. 
*
*
*
* for all Reporters 

* I 
* *
! --old, new and potential * 
*
*

Ifeaturing Prof. Ronald Weber i 
J 
I (Meet in LaFortune AuditoriumjJ
********************•••••...................... 
--~-------------~-~­
*~J.Q!?.~~rver
Founded November 3, 1966 

The Observer is published by the students of the University EDITORIAL BOARD of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported 
AI Rutherford Managing Editor as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent Jim Eder Executive Editor

the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com· 
Pat Hanifin Editorial Editormentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, cartoons and regular columns express the views of their 

Bob Mader News Editor authors. Column space is available to all members of the Maureen Rynn Campus Editor community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor expression of varying opinions on campus. Ken Bradford Copy Editor Val Zurblis Wire Editor Editorials: 283-1715 News: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Tom O'Neil Features Editor Business Manager Tom Modglin Bill Brink Sports Editor Advertising Manager Tom Whelan 
Dan Sanchez Senior Night Editor 

Tuesday, January 27, 197& 
..J 


WASHINGTON--You would think "That's stupid. I didn't want it, counts." 
opinion 

Laissez Faire 
....iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiierrico ang i u oni 
In reply to Mr. Buchwald's article on the "Machiavelli Plan," I 
would like to elaborate on several key points. Despite the author's profound knowledge of international politics, in ridiculing the role of the CIA in Italian politics, he does present a distorted picture to most Americans, who know little about the present political situation. Therefore, in this article, I will present a realistic Italian perspective to clear some of the distortions. 
Obviously, the article's purpose is to ridicule politics and the CIA; however, it overlooks three important factors: the complex structure of the Italian political system, the Italian economy, and recent electoral behavior. When these factors are considered, one can see the impossibility of blocking the inevitable--a "historic compromise" between Communists and Christian Democrats. This compromise would give the Communists a role in the actual government, which they have not held in thirty years. Consequently, it is irrational to pour American tax payer's money towards a futile cause. 
Perhaps, the U.S. does not realize that the money given to the center parties, and to non-communist parties is never used for the urgent needs of social projects. The scandals in the government, as the Italians say, "disappear in the sand." This situation is worsened when the scandals coincide with hyperinflation, increasing unemployment and a nebulous economic future. These deficiencies have been caused by a lack of authority-authority that the Christian Democrats, because of their complex structure of dissenting factions, have not been able to provide. The leaders of the party have been around too long, and have been corrupted by power. Instead of pursuing the interests of the majority, they have pursued their own. If the Christian Democrats had done to themselves what they have done for the Italian people, they would realize the scoundrels they have been. The party is corrupt, and the Italian electorate is too intelligent, and too proud to resign themselves to a dishonest system. 
Since the mid-60's the Italian electorate has been moving toward the left. The need of change is imperative to solve Italy's economic, political and moral crisis. Once in the government, the Communists, with respected and responsible leaders, will provide a new and better leadership. Its disciplined and organized structure will bring the reforms needed. Therefore, a "historic compromise" is inevitable despite the no's of the U.S., the Church, and of industrial pressure groups. 
There is no reason to be paranoid about the Party's true intentions because they do not advocate a violent revolution. Theyby now that Christmas would be and if it doesn't fit, why should I "How's this?" Tommy said as only want reforms, and have repeatedly affirmed that their politics over. But for millions of children in say I liked it?" he was writing. "Dear Uncle Jack are congruent with Western European ideologies. Also, they areAmerica, it isn't. "Because when someone sends and Aunt Arlene. Thanks for the faithful to the Italian Constitution; therefore, they can be voted outI discovered this when I visited you a gift, you're supposed to great Walt Disney plate. I really of office like any other party. Enrico Berlinguer, thethe Carmichaels the other evening. thank him." liked it and would have eaten from secretary-General of the Party, has affirmed that the Soviet model is As I walked into the house, Mrs. "Okay. If I write them, can I go it except my sister Estelle stepped 
to a movie?" on it and broke it the same day." fine for the U.S.S.R., but not for Italy. Also, the CommunistCarmichael was yelling at her Mrs. Carmichael took out a list "You don't have to mention theoretician, Luciano Barca, has repeatedly affirmed that, "In12-year old son. "No, you're not and said,' 'There are several more Estelle broke it," said Mrs. Car­accepting the role of small private enterprises, we have to acceptgoing to any movie until you write 
your grandmother, thanking her for people you have to thank. Grand­michael. "Just say you love it and private profit, but assuming a satisfactory tax system, there is no the lovely scarf she sent you for ma Collins sent you a sweater, had wanted one for three years." reason to limit it." In a remarkable admission for a communist. he Christmas." Aunt Harriet a pair of gloves, Uncle "I thought you told me I wasn't adds, "There is no substitute for the free market." 
"Aw, Ma, I'll write her tomo­'Jack and Aunt Arlene a Walt supposed to lie." As a member of NATO, and as the seventh largest economic rrow.'' Disney cereal plate. Wait a "That's not lying. Well, it may power in the world, Italy is strategically very important to the U.S. 
minute--I think Aunt Arlene sent be lying, but it's all right to fib
"You've been saying that for However, a "historic ·~ompromise" will not destroy American 
you the gloves and Uncle Jack the where Christmas gifts are con­
three weeks. You haven't written interests in Italy; on the contrary, I believe the U.S. will benefit by a 
one thank-you note, and you're Walt Disney plate. I can't make cerned. If everyone told the truth change in the administrative system of the government. 
going to do it tonight. And while out my own handwriting." about the gifts he received, there The next general election, which will be held in the Spring of you're at it, you can thank Uncle "Why can't I say 'Thanks for the would be no Christmas. While 1977, will be vital; but, I will not be appalled to see the Communist Arthur and Aunt Sue for the gift'?" Tommy wanted to know. you're at it, don't forget to thank in the government. I am not a Communist; on the contrary, I am afruitcake." "Because it's not personal Aunt Ellen for the electric tooth­practicing Christian Democrat! "Laissez faire" is my"Who are Uncle Arthur and enough. Relatives want to make brush and the Baxters for the recommendation for Dr. Henry Kissinger, and for other foreignAunt Sue?" sure when they buy something for woolen shirt which we had to policy experts because the "historic compromise" is near.
'"They're not really your uncle Christmas that the gift is really exchange. But don't say we 
and aunt. Uncle Arthur works in appreciated." exchanged it, as you wouldn't want Daddy's office. He's Daddy's "What am I supposed to say?" to hurt their feelings." boss." Tommy asked, taking out a yellow "I'll never get to the movies," 
"Good grief." lined pad. Tommy protested. "And don't forget to write a note "Tell them it was the best gift "Start writing," Mrs. Carmi­to Uncle Lester who sent you the you got all Christmas, and it was chael said," and be careful of your Washington Redskins wool hat that just what you wanted." spelling." 
didn't fit." "You want me to say that about a "Boy," said Tommy,"adults "Should I tell him it didn't fit?" Walt Disney cereal plate?" sure take the fun out of Christmas. "Don't you dare. Tell him it was "I don't care what they sent All they make you do is tell one lie 
perfect and just what you wanted.'' you," Mrs. Carmichael said. "It's after. another. '· 
tions? is the evil done justified by 

best look at the whole picture in its 
what is accomplished? How is

P.O. Box Q historical context. 
modern war's destructiveness to 

We should note his mandate to 
innocent civilians justified? 

love our enemies. This is not 
To me is seems time we stop
Dear Editor: 

footnoted ·to read 'except the 
assuming military strength makes
I've never met you, Stephen 

Russians or Cubans. We can take 
us right and justifies America's big 
Judge, but had I, I would be among 

note of his ordering his disciple to 
bully attitude. It seems logical that
those people who would question-a 

put down his sword in the Garden 
for nations to turn their swords into 
Christian in ROTC? Affirming an 

of Gethsemane, saying those that 
plowshares, they must stop prepar­
Anabaptist tradition and being part 

live by the sword will die by the 
ing for war. Can you sincerely pray 
of the Mennonite Church, puts me 

sword. 
for peace as you prepare for war?
in your category of "a small 

In a world where hunger is a real 
To go through all the classic
number of other sects." Do not 

issue to continue military spending 
debates is not my intention. You're
assume so quickly that a small 

at the cost of people's starvation 
correct in observing the world is
minority implies inaccuracy in the­

doesn't seem like the most Jesus 
not a Mickey Mouse Club, never

ology. thing to do. 
was and never will be, but we who
In your reference to Christ you 

I'm not all that familiar with your 
claim allegiance to a very radical
talk only of his not telling Roman 

Catholic tradition, but from what I 
Jesus should not be so quick to
soldiers to lay down their swords. 

understand of St. Thomas Aquinas' 
determine our behavior from the
We can do all sorts of things with 

just war theory, if taken seriously, 
way the world is; after all we're
the Bible, from justifying war and 

no war really makes the standards. 
part of the New Order. Should we
racism to justifying women's inferi­

Who decides what is a really just 
meet, perhaps we can talk further
ority. When we start looking at 

cause and from whose point of view 
of our visions.
Jesus teaching on some issue, we'd 

do we decide who had just inten-Jane L. Short 
DOONESBURY 
EXCUSE ME -7HE 
t../8/?ARJAN T&US M/3 
YOu'Ve 60T 7}{13 ClOSW /?£S&R.VE CIJPY OF ..TOP~s:~. \ 
UM•• 5AY... I'M AlMOST 7HRIJU6H.• I IAIONP!il< IF I C£)(Jt.f) CAN TAll< YO(J /NllJ L.£TT/N6 ME K#P THE 8(}QA( FOR. A FetUMIN~S 
/101?/3 •. \ 
by Garry Trudeau 
OH, HtY, :tM 5a?RY-I (j{j/355 I toST 71?AC,t:. OF THE TIM&•• I RJIJN/? 
A FA5CINATIN6SUIT 1-1/i.RE, ANEARJ...YSEX PISCRJM/NATION CfiSE.. 
\ 
II&Y.. 
YOU'R£ NICE•. 
;TIN6l&!~
.• I<£AU.Y. 
~TIN6tef;
I 
0 
0 


kindly disposed and inclined to take life 
easy. 
i he plentiful nature in which the Indians lived not only provided their food, clothing and shelter, but also a god to worship. The Potawatomis, like many other Indian tribes were sun worshippers. They offered sacrifices to the sun, whom they believed to be the ruler of the world, and pleaded for protection, cures from sickness and safety from their enemies. One of their major feasts, the Feast of Dreams, consisted of the roasting and consumption of dog meat and the carrying out of various actions directed by their dreams. The Potawato­mis also practiced polygamy. 
In contrast to the easy going Potawato­mis, the Miamis were a sober and serious people, though friendly and polite. They lived in log houses roofed with rush mats, and the Miami social and political systems were quite strong. They were also known as tough adversaries in battle. 
The Miamis were very industrious and enterprising, traits not possessed by the Potawatomis. The Miamis were described as shrewd traders as well as fine trappers, and their Indian corn, maize, was consi­dered to be the most delectable among any of the tribes. 
The religion of the Miamis was orderly and simple, much the same as their daily lives. They worshipped the sun and the 
thunder, and their dead were interred in carved out log coffins or buried in the ground in tightly sealed log cabins built for that purpose. 
A brief lrlstory 
The history of the native American inhabitants of this area began thousands of years ago during the late prehistoric period, when Miamis began to wander down from their Wisconsin homes. These migrating Indians settled around the southern Mich and 


EDITOR'S NOTE: This Is a series of articles about the growth of Notre Dame and the American nadon. 
The early inhabitants of the present 
Michiana area were Indians and mission­
aries. The St. Joseph River comes down 
from the northeast, makes a sharp bend, 
and continues northwesterly for 30 miles, 
emptying into Lake Michigan. The "south 
bend" of the river provided a convenient 
stopping place for the Miami Indians. 
After Indiana was admitted to the Union 
in 1816, a series of treaties opened the 
teritory to American settlers eager to 
expand the western boundary of the United 
States. The Indians were being pushed farther away from their reservations. 
In 1823, Alexis Coquillard, a young Canadian, established a trading post in the area and called it South Bend. This new settlement attracted even more pioneers to South Bend. Indian Chief Pokagon appealed to his missionary friend Father Gabriel Richard of Detroit to send a priest to the village of South Bend in order to serve the religious needs of the Indians and to hopefully settle the disputes between the Indians and settlers. 
Stephen Theodore Badin was born in Orleans, France in 1768. In 1792, because of the French Revolution, he left the Sulpician seminary in France for America and became one of the first students at St. Mary's Seminarv in Baltimore, Maryland. 
tctc==;,Nn•c:=:::Mw:l"l"==~wl" ,..,. 
He was ordained by aishop John Carroll on May 25, 1793, the first priest to be ordained in the United States. 
Father Badin had been described as small in stature. But what he lacked in physical size he made up in zeal, even in his later years. He was at Detroit at the time Chief Pokagon's request arrived, and Father Richard asked Badin to go. Badin accepted the challenge. At the age of 60, 


northern Indiana, thus by the time white men found them, they were firmly rooted in this area. 
Though there is certainly dispute, many historians believe that the famed Jesuit missionary Jacques Marquette was the first white man to view the Indian land around South Bend. In 1673 he passed up the Kankakee River and crossed the portage to the St. Joseph River on his way north after a journey among the Indians. Also, soon after Marquette in 1679, LaSalle discovered the mouth of the St. Joseph River on Lake Michigan and eventually established a fort there. 
In approximately 1680, the Jesuit mis­sionaries Frs. Allouez and Dablon estab­lished a mission on the banks of the St. Joseph River, about sixty miles up river from the mouth. This site is located about one mile north of the present city of Niles. Some time after the establishment of the mission, a fort, Ft. St. Joseph, was built by the French on the same high bluff overlookilng the river. Together, the fort and the mission became the center for commerce, French power and conversion of the Indians in the area. 
The next major event in the area was the departure of the Miamis in the early 1700's. They were driven southward into southwestern Indiana and southern Ohio by an alliance of several tribes, including the Potawatomis who had lived with them peacefully for nearly fifty years. The few Miamis presently living in the area did not return until the 1930's. 

In 17oJ, however, au abrupt ana permanent change occurred. The French and Indian war had broken out in 1756 and in 1760, Montreal was taken by the British, who in the articles of capitulation gained control of much of St. Joseph County. Thus the Indians lost their priests and were not to re_gain them until sixtv years later. 
After more than 100 years· of gradual scattering of the Indians remaining in the South Bend area, there remain today less than 1000 Miamis and Potawatomis com­
""' 
The original Mission of St. Joseph, as the South Bend area was called, was found approximately 150 years earlier by Jesuit 
missionaries and explorers. The famous 
French explorer, LaSalle, had also passed 
through the area about the same time. The 
new pastor ,Badin had to build upon this 
groundwork. 
Although Badin labored among the Indians and settlers, he had a strong desire to start a home for orphans scattered in the area between Fort Wayne and Chicago. He decided to purchase an enclave of 524 acres of land situated next to two lakes in the South Bend mission. He named this settlement St. Marie des Lacs 
At the time Father Badin made his purchase of land, he began to clear the forests and cultivate the land. He built his home on the southern shore of St. Mary's Lake, near the side of the present log cabin. His meager cabin was approximate­ly 35 feet long and 20 feet wide. He also built an all-purpose chapel nearby in order to meet the needs of the community. 
The strains of such labors were now affecting his health. In 1835, three years after he arrived at St. Joseph Mission, he transferred the title of the land he purchase, St. Marie des Lacs to the Bishop of Vincennes. He stipulated that an orphan asylum or some other charitable or religious institution be established upon the grounds. Badin then left for Cincinnati to rest. 

bined. There are approximately lOU Miamis living in the Darden and Hastings Roads vicinity and nearly 800 Potawatomis throughout southern Michigan and nor­thern Indiana. Because many of them are intermarried and there is no formal reservation, the tribal structure is practi­cally nonexistent. 
The culture once so rich and colorful is now disintegrated and lost to the point where most of the Indians can no longer speak their native language. 
Joseph Winchester, who is the president of the Potawatomi Indians of Michigan and Indiana, commented on the present danger of losing the language completely: ''There are not too many people left that ~eak fluently," he said. "We eventually hopt!'to bring in some older people to teach the youngsters." 
Among the Miamis the loss of culture is "spectacular", according to Dave Albert, a South Bend attorney who has been involved with the Indian community for several years. "Many of them could not even be recognized as Indians anymore," he remarked. 
Albert, who now advises and helps the Miamis run their small neighborhood center, noted that the Indians are trying to recover some of their tribal culture, but they have not been too organized in their c.:fforts. A 24ft. by 24ft. renovated garage, which serves as the community center, is the central focus of the effort to revive culture. Headwork classes are presently offered at the center, along wtth adult education and other crafts. 
Besides the loss of culture, other prob­lems also confront the area Indians. Alc!>holism and social disintegration beset the ancestors of the once strong Miamis. 
Social disintegration has resulted from tremendous outside pressure, according to Albert. The old morals were shattered and no new ones were formed to replace them because the tribe was scattered. Tradi­tional Indian society can be extremely disciplined. Older people, however, must be able to control the young, according to Albert, and the tight tribal unity needed for this is not present anymore. 
In the old society everyone grew up together and thus knew what was expected of them, Albert explained. Today, however, with the great transfer to the 
suburb!>, this element is gone. 
The cultural loss and social problems besetting the Miami and Potawatomi Indians today are merely the end product of an inevitable process--the advance of civifization. The Indians, natu;·aJ inhabi­tants of the 'forests which once stood in place of South Bend, are no longer in an environment' conductive to many of their cultural traits. Whether rightly or wrongfy, they have. lost much of their heritage and land and are now part of a society alien to 
much of their past. 
HI" ll" HI" "'I" NIC 
Bob Grant 

The St. Joseph Mission seemed to flounder after Father Badin's departure. Father De Seille, the immediate successor, died only 2 years later in 1837. In 1838, the United States government decided to remove the last Indians from their homes in Indiana to new reservations in Kansas. Father Petit, the second successor to Father Badin, decided to leave St. Joseph Mission and accompany his beloved Ind­ians on their journey to their new homes many miles away. He died shortly thereaf­ter in St. Louis. The remains of the two successors to Father Badin are in the crypt of Sacred Heart Church. A void now seemed present in this once promising mission. 
It was at this time that the Bishop of Vincennes, Bishop Brute, sent Father Heillandiere, an assistant, to Europe to gQt additional clergymen for the diocese. In France Hartlandiere secured the good will of the newly organized Society of Holy Cross at Le Mains. Father Edward Sorin was chosen to lead a small group of missionaries to serve in the Vincennes Diocese. They would continue the work of Father Badin. They would build Notre Dame. 
Next: Father Sorin Comes to America. 


6 

the observer Tuesday, january 27, 1976 
'Parish partnership' succeeds 
ND-SMC students serve South Bend parishes 
by Mary Mungovan Pat Cathey from Grace Hall ex­the Catholic communities of South volunteers, but student partici­can be expanded and modified this Staff Reporter plained. "Most of the classes are Bend and Notre Dame," Longano pants in "Parish Partnership" semester to better satisfy the needs 
conducted outside, or in the case of stated, "and it can help both generally found the program val­of both the parishes and volun­On any given day of the week, bad weather, in a small chapel." students and parishioners to see uable for a wide range of reasons. teers. 
some fifteen to twenty Notre Dame In Holy Cross Parish, twenty the potential of the parish as a •'The parish has needs, and ''This semester we hope to have and Saint Mary's students take to volunteers from Sorin and Walsh kingpin of the neighborhood and a students have a lot of unused community service projects estab­their cars and head out in five 

halls direct an arts and crafts vehicle for social change." talents," Fitzsimmons explained. lished well enough in the halls to be directions for South Bend. No, "mini-program", a recreational ''A lot of people thought they able to coordinate the cross-over of
Workers ftnd satisfaction
they're not hitting the Burger King program and tutoring, under the wouldn't be able to do anything volunteers into other hall's pro­

or shopping at the mall. They're all direction of Mike Fitzsimmons and significant, I jects," he explained.
really but didn't
Several hall directors weighed

part of "Parish Partnership", a Kathy Rost. Lyons and Pangborn realize how much good I could do ''That way people with different
the successes and difficulties of
volunteer program sponsored by 

volunteers teach CCD classes and Parish Partnership in its first until I got in there and tried." interests and schedules canarrangeCommunity Services. work with the St. Vincent de Paul "Volunteer work helps you learn their time and talents where they
semester and on its present scale.
Between 85 and 100 volunteers society in St. Patrick's Parish, a Mike Fitzsimmons of Sorin be-• a Jot about dealing with people and will be most effective," Longanofrom ten Notre Dame and Saint predominantly middle lowerto relating to other age groups," said said.

Iieved, ''Despite our inexperience
Mary's halls work in five different income community on South Mark Eck of Flanner. Hall directors will be recruiting

in setting things ups and recruiting

parishes in the South Bend area Bend's near west side. Bob a Flanner volun­additional during the
Heisler, volunteers
people, we were able to get the
each week, according to Don teer, simply likes working with first weeks of this semester.

project pretty well established in
Longano, Community Services dir­Program expansion planned the hall. But it's just a start!" kids. "I have a lot of little brothers Anyone interested can contact the ector. 

and sisters, so for me it's like going community service director in his
Other leaders in the program
Each of the five parishes--St. 

In the spring semester, "Parish cited problems with transportation, home!" he laughed. hall or call the Volunteer Service 
Joseph's, St. Patrick's, Holy Cross, Partnership" will "expand Longano hopes that the program
to in­Office at 7308.
organization and recruitment of

Holy Family and Christ the King-­clude at least one more parish -St. is paired with two sponsoring Matthew's -and possibly an­residence halls. Volunteer activity other," Anhut announced. "The in each parish ranges from tutoring program will also expand to include 
sao tax exemptions unclaimed 
or teaching gym classes in the more activities in already estab­elementary schools to visiting the lished parishes," he added. sick and the elderly in cooperation "At Christ the King next se-Many taxpayers have failed to credits. He encouraged all taxpay-Other examples of sideline in-with parish St. Vincent de Paul mester, we hope to reach more claim the $30.00 Personal Exemp-ers with any questions whatsoever come from work done in the home societies. people in the parish by working tion Credit on their tax returns, the about either of the credits to call might include TV and radio repair, "Each parish is a little different with the elderly, the teen group Internal Revenue Service reported the free federal tax assistance sewing and alterations, and income 
and each has its own potential," and project RENEW," Conley in-yesterday. This credit should be number listed in the local phone tas preparation. 
Longano commented. ''Getting to dicated. "We will also conduct a claimed on line 16B of the 1040 book. Sideline income can also be 
know what each parish is like is door-to-door survey to determine long form or line 13B of the short Significant numbers of Indiana earned outside the home. Week-0 
part of what makes it interesting." the needs and resources of the form 1040A. A taxpayer is entitled taxpayers who perform part-time end musicians and bricklayers, and 
According to John Anhut, co­parishioners." to claim one $30.00 credit for each work as a sideline may be unaware people who officiate at school ordinator of "Parish Partnership", Holy Cross and Holy Family personal exemption claimed on the that this additional income could be sporting events are often subject working under Longano, ''The parishes will be conducting similar return. subject to self-employment tax, to self-employment tax. program was originally Longano's surveys to determine potential according to the Internal Revenue "You must file an income tax idea and began in the spring of areas of volunteer involvement, James W. Caldwell, district direc-Service district office in Indianapo-return and pay self-employment 1975 with Flanner and LeMans according to Anhut. "St. Patrick's tor of Internal Revenue Service said lis. tax if you have net earnings from volunteers working in Christ the may also conduct a survey to see if that taxpayers who have already Mr. James W. Caldwell, district self-employment of $400 or more, King Parish." there is the desire and the financial filed and have failed to claim their director of Internal Revenue Ser-even if you would not otherwise be 
"When he saw that the program resources to reopen the elementary credit should not attempt to correct vice in Indiana, pointed ou that for required to file an income tax could work in one parish, he school which was shut down for the ereor by sending an amended self-employment tax purposes, reture," Mr. Caldwell added. expanded the program in the fall lack of support." returen or by any other means. "self-employed" means more than Self-employment tax is computed semester to include five parishes, Several of the parishes have also Such attempts will only cause regular full time business activi-on From 1040 SE and attached to Anhut explained. "We went from indicated a desire for students to further delays in processing. ties. It also covers certain part-the taxpayer's regular 1040. parish to parish interviewing pas­help set up guitar groups for young "If a taxpayer has already filed, time work, and can include what The self-employment tax applies tors in an attempt to find parishes people's liturgies. and did not claim the full tax you do at home or on the side in only to the person who actually with needs our volunteers could Longano announced that hall credit" said Caldwell, "the IRS will addition to your regular job. earns it. For example, if a husband fill." community service directors will be automatically recompute the tax "It is important for the person and wife file a joint return, but only 
Father Martin Reeny, pastor of taking a two-credit "Work-Study" and/or refund including the allow-with sideline income to pay the the wife has self-employment Christ the King Parish commented, government course taught by Pro-able credit. The taxpayer will tax," Caldwell stressed, "since income, then only she would attach "Just the fact that last year's fessor Kromkowski of South Bend receive a notice that the correction these payments ensure the taxpay-a 1040 SE to the income tax return. volunteers were asked to come next semester. The course is has been made, and will automati-er of full social security credit for If both the husband and the wife back this fall shows they were designed to help directors be more cally receive the credit." all earnings." earned sideline incomes, then each appreciated. They encourage us a effective in their parishes and will Caldwell also noted that many Caldwell said that earnings sub-one would attach a separate 1040 lot just by their enthusiasm." consist of a series of lectures on low-income families are failing to ject to self-employment tax are SE to their joint return. 
social service. claim their Earned Income Credit often erroneously reported as As a reminder, Caldwel also Ballsandparlshespahed "Besides being an attempt to on line 16D ofthe 1040A short form "Other Incaome" on the From noted that it is not uncommon for integrate community service into or line 21C of the 1040 long form. 1040 or 1040A. people who are subject to self-em-Joseph Conley of Zahm Hall the curriculum,"Anhut comment-Eligible low-income taxpayers who As a common example, the ployment tax, to be also required to directs the 15 to 18 Zahm and ed, "the course will be a general have already filed and failed to District Director cited housewives compute and pay quarterly esti­McCandless volunteers now work-meeting place where parish direct-claim this credit will be contacted who, since they are unable to seek mates of their taxes. Taspayers ing at Christ the King, an upper ors can keep in touch and inter-by mail and given instructions on outside employment because of with questions about self-employ­middle class parish of 1020 families change ideas." how to claim it. duties at home, sell items to friends ment tax are encouraged to call the on the north side. .. 'Parish Partnership' has great . Cald~ell pointed out that the and neighbors such as plastic toll-free tax assistance number 
"We've been tutoring grammar potential to bridge the gap between mstruct10n books for both the long products, soaps and household listed in the local telephone direc­school students on a one-to-one and short forms explain these products, or cosmetics and jewelry. tory. 
basis i~ re~ding, math and. English~~******************************************************************~ and dtrecting the recreation pro-~A­
LIE

gram," he explained. Notre Dame ~& * volunteers are also involved in the ~ . ~ parish's RENEW project. (RE· * '/' * NEW, Inc. acquires run-down * * homes, and volunteers restore * .. , * them for lower income families.) * -t))·"f · : at-= * Sixteen volunteers from Flanner * • • • 1\ ~ .. ;. • •. * and LeMans tutor St. Joseph* · ' .. · * Elementary school students in * • ' · * small .groups. and individually.: ~
Br1ngs Back 

~;;7~.::::::~::iAMERICAN BANDSTAND NIGHrri
by Father Sonn, Notre Dame's * 1~ founder, and at approximately the* $ 50 A}} M• d Q . k * 
same time,"Fr. Donald Dilg, St.* • IXe flO S # Joseph's pastor-related. "It was* All Night I $ 75 H • 7 1Qp M $ 15 Drafts * 
originally just a log chapel, too, but * . . -. . . *
urncanes 

it is now a parish of 2600 people * Q * ranging from lower to upper-mid-• 
$ • 40 rafts I * 
die income." f a soI * 
Dilg said of the volunteers, ''Our ,._ R A R d ~ 
principal has been very pleased IE-ate--ecor with Contests for Bump, Hustle
with the people who've been f * working here. They've rendered a • lt.mbo, Twt·st, and Jt.tterbug. ' * 
real service to the school." ! * At Holy Family Parish, a middle M • * i~come community on the west* any Prtzes and FREE T-Shirts # stde, 25 to 30 volunteers from * * ~;:~~n~n:le!:~~~~c~::se~-: Enter, THE GALA GIVEAWAY ~ 
"The school has no gym m-JE. ~ * 
~=~ctl~~i~:d~;r;.:::::/~e~:r: 200 Bushel of Booze!! : 
-'************** **~****************~************************~ 
Topic: job placement 
Graduate Student Union plans workshops 
in Room 317 of the Administration vices of which we should availby Stephen L. Tnlnor 
Building, will be followed by ourselves, especially now that theStaff Reporter 
weekly workshops to be held on job situation is so difficult." Wednesdays during the lunch hour 
The Graduate Student Union Following an informational talk
in the Advanced Students Lounge
finalized plans for a series of by Mr. Richard Willemin, Directorin LaFortune.
workshops to be held throughout of the Placement Bureau, and the
Margaret Grounds, President of
the semester in conjunction with remarks of several guest speakers
the GSU, urged that "All graduate 
the University Placement Bureau at from business, industry and gov­
students who will be on the job
its weekly meeting on January 22. 
ernment, the Placement Office will 

market within the next two years 
be open so that students can

The initial session, scheduled for should attend this meeting. The familiarize themselves with its7:00 p.m. on Tuesday, January 27 Placement Bureau has many ser­location and services. The Bureau will provide coffee and soft drinks to accompany cookies served by the
Peace Corps, Vista recruit GSU. Grounds also noted that, '"Only 
Notre Dame volunteers 
if we indicate by our attendance at Notre Dame Peace Corps and Vistas work for a local non-profit this opening session . that we are Vista reprsentative Bernice Roy agency for one year and participate interested in obtaining the Bur­in many activities outside their eau's help will they take our future
will be available this semester major jobs, depending upon the requests seriously." 
every Wednesday between noon 
and 5 p.m. in room 220-L of the needs of the community and their Discussion of the Placement Administration Building to talk interest and skills. Bureau workshops was followed by with students interested in partici June-August openings begin to a financial report from Char­pating in programs abroad or in the be filled in February, so it is lotte Single, Graduate Student 
u.s. important to apply early. The Government Treasurer. The report application itself is comparable to 
indicated that the organization'sPeace Corps volunteers serve 

the initial step in a job interview 
overseas in response to requests expenditures for the fall semester 
and the final decision on the part of 
from the host countries. These had stayed well within the budget
the student comes when he is
requests outline the specific quali­guidelines adopted in September,
actually offered a particular posi­
fications and skill necessary to fill 1975.
tion.

volunteer assignments. The report revealed that of the
Many Notre Dame graduates
Sixty developing nations have $400 allocated for activities, $306 
now serve with the Peace Corps or
requested volunteers for 1976 with had been spent, and that of $212
Vista.

skills in areas such as architecture, agriculture, business, the sciences, math, health, English, engineering 
Farley Striders revive
and education. There are also openings for liberal arts graduates in community development, health, teching English and in youth work. 
tradition, stride again
Vista volunteers work among this by Karen Sikorski group is not competitive and mem­country's poor. Communities re­Staff Reporter bership is open to anyone onquest volunteers with a variety of campus, regardless of athletic ex­skills to assist with specific prob­Members of "The New Improved perience. Times when the track is lems as defined by the poor Farley Striders '76" are giving a available will be posted by the club; themselves. 
new style to an old Notre Dame non-members are also free to run tradition. The club is a modern during these periods. "Official"
Student Union 
version of the Farley Striders, an members are requir«rd to complete athletic group which was poplular 76 laps (about nine miles) beforereviews semester when the dorm's residents were they can ordet: a Farley Striders men. T-shirt, designed by Tom Paulius. 
(continued from page 1) The Striders also plan to organize 
Celebration just before March The club's main activity, as its warmup sessions where members break. "The way they're put on name implies, is running. Striders 
can learn stretching exercises,and the financial handling makes of the past ran outdoors, usually breathing tecbniques and other the difference," said Tom Birsic. around the lakes; but current ways to improve their running. 

"This year both the quantity and members use the ACC's indoor the quality of the activities are up.'' track. Most run two to two and a The advantage offorrning a club, Brother Benesh, first year direc­according to McElroy, is that . it 
half miles (16 to 20 laps) per day,
tor of Student Activities is very well helps individuals to maintain a
but the amount of running dllae is 
pleased with the progress Student regular routine of activity. "Run­
strictly voluntary. 
Union personnel have made. He ning every day is a type of summed up the hopes of many Striders run for enjoyment as commitment," ;he says. "Mor;t when he said he hopes "the wetl as for fitness. "We're not a people don't lik to run alone, and 
incoming people pick up where this bunch of masochists/' laughs Ka­give up easily. Heing part of a club group has led them and continue thy McElroy, one of the club's makes it easier to fulfill the 
the high quality efficiency I've organizers. "Running gives you commitment you make to your­experienced this year." 
the feeling that you're alive." The self." 
set aside for operations, only 561 had been paid out. The services budget, some $835, had been held to $103.14 in expenditures. 
Grounds explained the GSU's fiscal conservatism in terms of the organization's plans for the future, particularly in regard to the Advanced Students' Commons to be opened in the Aquinas Book Store in the fall. 
Grounds foresaw "greater grad­uate student activity after the Commons and students begin to develop a greater sense of place and membership in the community. They will need all the assets which we can pass on to them in order to build upon the foundation we have laid." 
The Thursday meeting also includ­ed a report from Don Roy, GSU vice-president and representative to the Academic Council, on the ·recent calendar decision, which he characterized as "a victory for the students and for good sense.'' 
Roy expressed his hope that "the great majority of students will disprove the Administration's be­lief that a Thanksgiving holiday is disruptive of that half week of classes. If a majority of students attend scheduled classes that we­ek, then there will be no calendar problems in the future." 
Roy went on to note that, "It would be an unfortunate as well as a questionable tactic to use the calendar to enforce attendance during Thanb.giving week." 
The meeting also included dis­cussion of plans for the new Advanced Students' Commons and of the possibility of sponsoring a film on assertiveness for women. A final decision on the film was deferred to a later m 
Student Government elections scheduled 
by Mike Hogan Staff Reporter 

Student Government elections are scheduled for Feb. 23 and 25, announced Pete Gottsacker, chair­man of the Election Committee. 
Officers to be elected are the Student Body president, vice pres­ident, and the three representa­tives for the Student Life Council from the North and South Quads and off-campus. The president and vice president will be elected together on one ticket. 
An organizational meeting will be held by the Election Committee on Thursday, Feb. 12 for potential candidates for any of these offices. Gottsacker said that all rules for the election will be disclosed to the candidates at that meeting. Peti­tions for candidacy will also be distributed. The petitions must be completed and filed by 6 p.m. on Monday, Feb. 16. 
Campaigning will begin the next day. Candidates will have six days to make themselves known to the Student Body, and at 1 a.m. on Monday, Feb. 23, \ampaigning will end, and the primaries will be held. 
Any candidate or ticket polling better than fifty percent of the votes will be announced the win­ner. If no one receives a majority, the two front runners in the primary will participate in a run ­off, held on Wednesday, Feb. 25. 
NOTICES 

Need a tune-up? You buy the parts. will Install plugs, points, CXII'ldenser, and set timing for sa. call Bob 8610. 
Desperately need 5 Marquette fix. call Eileen 6798. 
Student Government T-Shlrt Agency--lop quality and low priCli!S on wstom INde T-shlrts, Cllil David Bossy 233-3647. Ideal for domitories and dubs. 
The Album Hour Is here. Usten to WSNO. 640 AM for details. 
Moniuey Loan $20-SlSO, one day YAIIII, 1 percent Interest. LaFortune, M-F, 11 :15­12:15. 
Aa:urate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho, 232-0746. 
Gay CorTYnJnlty of Notre D!lme, lnformlt­tion : P.O. Box 206, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556 
IBM Selectric II typing. Manusalpts, Dissertations, experienced. 289-5193. 
Interested In Photography? The N.D. Photo Club Is holding their first meeting of the semester In 121 O'Shag on 7:oo Tuesday. Mr. Stevens, the advisor, will g lve a presentation. New l'l'1!t'Ttlers welcome. 
NO.SMC Council for the Retarded. Dance Wed. nile, 7:30. Questions, Tom Harbin 287 ·6673. Kathy Mc.Giynn 288-4315. 
FOR SALE 

Your Kind of People. Serious high-fidelity sound systems to keep you loose, yet at a price that \WI'l't get you uptight. Stereo Components, 20-40 percent diSCDUnts. RMS Audio, 321 S. Main, South Bend, Ind. 288-1681. (12-6 P.M.) 
Clllrulator at less than half original price. R1. 3248, 134 Keenan. 
12-strlng guitar, good condition, Call Usa, 8089. 
1973 Mustang Grande, air, power, stereo tape, one OIM1er, undercoated, 33,000 miles, no rust. 234-1372 after 5 P.M. 
Dolomite ski boots, size 9, used one season. Call 1924. 
3 GA Marquette tid<ets. Reasonable price. Call Bill 1222. 
WANTED 

Desperately need ride to Milwaukee, Frl, Jan. 30. Call 1956 after 10 P.M. 
Need 2 Marquette student tlx. AI 3388, 1715. 
HOUSEMATEWANTED: AT 1124 COR­BY, $75-•MONTH,A..US UTIUTIES. CAU. 288-8417. 
Must have 5 GA fix. any saturday game. Call Terry, 1609. 
Classified Ads 
Desperately need 4 Non-student tid<ets to 

Need 2 Davidson tickets for parents. call Villanova, Call Larry 283-1791. Mike 1624. 
Need riders to Oneonta, NY. Leave Need 4 tid<ets to Maryland game. Please Thurs, Jan 29, back Mon nite. Shares. call Peggy, 4-4198. Chris 1471. Need 4 Marquette tickets. Call Pat Wanted: GA Marquette tid<ets. call Pat 4-4161. 1654. Desperately need 2 tix tor Marquette. Need Maryland and Marquette tid<ets. Cllll1341. Call Henry at 272-5133. Three or four basketball tickets any Need 2 student tickets to Maryland or 
saturday game. call Tom 1044. Marquette game. call Jane 5135. 

Desperately need Marquette tickets. call Need 2 DePaul basketball tid<ets. Call sheila, 8135. John 233-5315. 
Ranner Rll!aJrd5 now open for secDnd Need one ticket for Maryland game Ann 
semester. New Janis lan, Bob Dylan, 8803. Grand Funk. I.Dggins and Messina. plus Jethro Tull's Greatest Hits. call 1488 or 
Need 4 Maryland tickets. Call Ron 8917. stop in at 807 Ranner. 
Need 2 Maryland tlx. Please call Kathy, Mock Stock Martcef. Feb. 2 tllru Feb. 27. 

272-5539. 

Old Business Bldg., 10 A.M. -3P.M., Mon thru Ai, Win $100, $50, $25. 
Need 2 Maryland or Davidson tickets for Sponsored by N.D.Rnanc.e Club. 
a f<>b next year. Please call Mike 1438. 
REMEMBER THAT DISASTROUS Need 2 Marquette tickets, student or GA. 
PROM? 
Call Julie 4456. 

Write down your best story about !hilt awful prom or formal cW1c:e and sent It InDesperately need 3 or 5 GA tlx to West for the OBSERVERR1claythe 13th-Val­va. or Marquette. call Tim 272-9566 entine's Day special I Names (yours and anyone else's) Withheld upon request.
Second ·semester senior looking for a Submit trve stories to:reasonably good paying job. Available all 
A-om Disaster 
day Mon, Wed, Frl, and weekends. ca11 
BoxQ
Howard at 234-8952. 
·'Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

The Ombudsman service will be running the balloting procedure. 
Because the existence of the SLC was in doubt last spring, elections were not held then. Since that time, the SLC has been revised and elections were then held last Oct­ober, explained Gottsacher. SLC elections will now be held at the regular election period. 
The Election Committee plans to organize a series of caucuses and debates in the residence halls. If any hall is interested in sponsoring debates during either the primary or run-off periods they should contact Gottsacker or committee members Jim Cawley and Jim O'Connell. 
Student Body President Ed Byrne said that his office will be open at any time for candidates to inquire about the duties of the office. Any questions about the election should be referred to Pete Gottsacker. Any candidates for the SLC can take their questions to present SLC members Ed van Tassel of the North Quad, John Salveson of the South Quad, and John Lynch of off-campus. Further information concerning elections will be forthcoming from the Elec­tion Committee. 
Gottsacker pointed out that act­ion by the committee has been hampered by the fact that the proposals of the COUL Report are still undecided. 
LDST AND FOUND 

Lost: Friday, gold Bulova VR~tch; gold band. Reward. Joe. 1188. 
Rlng Lost. It's only a reconstructed ruby, but It has sentimental value. Call Jeff 1857. 
Found: white cat on CllflllUS. Call 234-3892. 
PERSONALS 

Sacrament of Conflrrretion. If you haven't been CDI'lfirmed, and wish to be, contact Carrpus Ministry In Ubrary (6536) and ask !!bout Confirmation pro­
gram 
Happy 20th B-Day Mllry. LDoklng ~to a Wild weekend. From D.H.R. ANDM.J.T. 
1'81, See you at the prayer meeting In Rathskeller at 7:30 tonight. 
J. J. with the blue eyes: You've made me very happy the past four months have been the greatest. Looking torv.erd to I'Tl!ll'ly rrore. Love, Corky. 
Rlr fresh home-made food all of the time, try TACO RICO at the Scottsdale Mali. 
.. 


8 the observer Tuesday, january 27, 1976 
Top three fencing squads in country meet here tonight 
By Tom Kruczek team is a hell of a super team. We 
tralia in the 1976 Olympics.

The Notre Dame fencers, whlle are balanced at each weapon, 
Russian sabreman Uri Rabinowitz

just starting to scratch the surface although sabre does need a 
has spent fourteen years on the 

on a long season, will face probably boost." 
Russian national team, and will

their toughest opposition of their He rejects the notion that since 
also compete for the Tartars. Carl

entire schedule tonight when they the fencers have had only 2 
Kludke will handle the epee.
take on Wayne State, NYU and matches this year, winning both, 
The aspect that separates the

Tri-State in a quadrangular meet in that it may be too early to face such 
Irish from Wayne State is that the

the basketball arena of the ACC. awesome competition. 
Irish will rely on a team effort from 

Wayne State, last year's national "It probably is better that we are 
each of the fencers, in each

champion will be looking for re­facing them early in the season 
weapon, while Wayne State will 

venge against the Irish, as during because it will give us a chance to 
rely on these three mainstays and

the regular season last year, Notre see actually how good we really are 
try to have them fence as much as

Dame dumped the Tartar's 15-12. and in what areas we need to work. 
possible in each weapon.

NYU, was the number two team in Also, the best time for these teams 
NYU has an Olympic fencer of its 

the country last season and was the to travel is early in the semester, 
own in Sweden's Hans Wieselgren, 

1974 national champ. Notre Dame when the boys won't miss many 
an epee specialist who helped his

last year finished third. classes." 
country to the world championships 

Fencing coach Mike DeCicco was As usual, Wayne State has its 
in 1972. He will also compete in
optimistic in regard to the Irish share of foreign athletes. This year the 1976 Olympics.

foes. "We have a better team than the foreign corps is led by Austra­
NYU, according to DeCicco is
last year, and we think that this lian Greg Benko, who won seven 
probably one of the best teams in

Wayne State will meet NYU at gold medals in the Australian 
the country this year and will be

5:30 followed by the Notre Dame­National Championships this past 
solid opposition for Notre Dame.
Wayne State clash at 6:30. NYU summer, finishing first in all three 
"This year we have to concentrate
and the Irish duel at 7:30. 
weapons. He will represent Aus­

..
and make sure we don't make the 

Notre Dame and St. Mary's women scramble for a rebound in SMC's
mistakes that will give them the 

59-50 win over ND Saturday. [Photo by Chris Smith) 
easy bout. It will be tight, but I think we can win." Notre Dame is not without 

SMC women's basketball 
Olympic caliber fencers as fresh­

*Observer 
man Mike Sullivan will compete 

team downs Notre Dame
under the USA banner this sum­mer. Nationally-ranked epeeist 

by Eileen O'Grady through the second half. with 
Tim Glass, still an Olympic candi­

continual fouls called against them. 
date, will lead the Irish tonight. 

The Irish really slowed down Pat Gerard, junior Olympic champ 
The UCLA game was not the only when Clemency fouled out, with and Mike McCahey give the Irish a
Sports 
tense basketball game played Sat­8:57 remaining, and co-captainstrong foil combination while Sam 
urday afternoon. Another rivalry, Patti Coogan left the game because DeFiglio will team with Sullivan in 
equally as fierce, took on one of a knee injury.sabre. 
another in front of a 500 plus crowd Taking advantage of the loss, in the ACC. For the second time in SMC once again outscored the Irish their three meetings, St. Mary's at the end of the half, 24-9. Diane emerged the victor, coming from Klucka, playing guard, and start­behind to beat Notre Dame 59-SO. ing center Kathleen Cullen, initiat­The game was marked by incon­ed the attack. Klucka connected 
lnterhall basketball standings 
sistencies by both teams. After for a score on a 10-foot jump shot leading the scoring 6-0, in the early off the jump ball. Cullen dunked by Ray O'Brien ively. part of the game, St. Mary's began the rebounds. 
led by host of undefeated teams 
of the undefeateds. 

Interhall basketball has moved League II is paced by defending to lose the touch. Notre Dame, In the final minutes, SMC guard 
Dillon III, Flanner III and Cava­

into full swing again this year. interhall champions Keenan I (4-0) naugh I all sport unblemished playing tremendous defense, forc­Meg Holland dominated the scor­There are fifty-two teams spread with St. Ed's I and Off Campus III records and are tied for first place ed the SMC offense to make the ing, connecting for six points in a 
right behind with 3-0 records. shots on the outside.

among five leagues. Over six-hun­in League III. Dillon relies on its row. But Cullen ended up the high dred and fifty students are partici­Keenan I is led by Irish grid leading scorer Dave Hoffman, At the same time, Notre Dame scorer of the game, with 15 points. pating in the program. standout Mike Banks (17 ppg.) and while Flanner III is led by a came on strong to score the next 14 Clemency led the Irish with 12 
League I leaders are Morrissey I captain Greg Wilks. Another grid three-man assault consisting of points. Captain Mary Clemency, points.(4-0) and Fisher I (3-0). Morrissey star, Joe Montana, is the leading Mark Hogan, Sal Cosimaina and playing in the guard position, Monica Doyle, head coach for St. is led by Bill Murphy, Mike Vadas, scorer for Off Campus III along Pete Johnson. Jim Singer is the accounted for nine of them. 
Mary's, called it a "very defensivewith Tom Monagham. St. Ed's I
and Kevin Hart, all averaging in top scorer for Cavanaugh I. Dillon With three minutes remaining in game. A couple of times therethe double figures in scoring. relies on a balanced attack led by III takes on Flanner III in an the half, St. Mary's revived again, were three of four minute spansFisher I is paced by Tony Crudelle Reggie Reed, John Dziminski, and all-important game this week. 
outscoring the Irish 10 to 3. Kathy where no one could score. What it Dave Schlichting. St. Ed's I meets
and Dan Knotts. These two players The winner of tomorrow night's Maddox, playing guard, broke the came down to was endurance,'' sheOff Campus III this week in a battle
average 16 and 14 points respect-clash between Flanner IV ( 4-0) and spell scoring one basket off a steal said. "In fact, five out of our last
Alumni II (5-0) will own sole 

and pass from forward Martha nine points were free throws.
possession of first place in League 

Kelly. Notre Dame kept fouling because
IV. Flanner IV is paced by captain 

Farley, Breen-Phillips, 
Mary Fran Liebscher, also play­they were tired," she added. 
and top scorer Paul Hakel. 

ing forward, aided the attack Notre Dame coach, Jeanne Ear­
Player-captain Doug Ogburn leads 

scoring three points and finally ley, attributed the loss to St.
the undefeated Alumni II team.

Lyons victors in interhall 
tieing it up, 23-23. The half ended Mary's use of their height in the
Off Campus VII (3-0) and Cava­naugh III (4-0) are on top of League with a lay up shot by Mary center. "They had more height in
Farley scoreless during the third

by Eileen O'Grady V. Cavanaugh III is led by captain Clemency, making the score 25-23. the center than we did and they
quarter. 

Marty Koppenhafer while John The second half again went in used it effectively aRainst us."
BP's offense was led by center

The six Women's Interhall BAs­Wirth and Jeff Adams average streaks. The Irish took the early Notre Dame and St. Mary's will 
Andrea Smith, who scored 10

ketball teams completed their third double figures in scoring for a lead in scoring, with lay-ups by meet again in the confines of the 
points, and guard Maureen Geary,

week of play Sunday, with Farley, defensive minded Off Campus VII Shiely and excellent jump shots by ACC auxiliary gym Feb. 25. Notre 
who scored 9. 

Breen Phillips and Lyons victor­team. Off Campus VII plays a big Maureen Maloney, playing for­Dame's next game will be this ious. game against the second placer ward. But Notre dame began to Saturday against Northwestern at 
Lyons 31 Walsh 20 
Stanford III team tomorrow night.

This year each women's hall lose their momentum half way 11:00 in the main arena ofthe ACC. entered one team into the tourna­
In this contest, Lyons dominatedment, along with a second team the whole game with an evenlyfrom Farley which won the cham­balanced attack. Forward Katepionship last year. 
Dickinson accounted for most of the steals in the game and made them
Farley 22 Lewis 18 
good on quick lay-ups. The present ratings stand:
This was the closest game during 
Farley 3-0, Walsh 2-1, Lyons 2-1,the afternoon. Farley's champion­BP 1-2, Farley (1) 1-2, Lewis 0-3.
ship team looked in the old form again as they finally edged over Lewis in overtime. Laurie Reising, 
Haefner injured 
Farley's center, was the high point scorer of the game with 12. 

Lewis was ahead at the half, in b-ball practice10-8. But with 44 seconds remain­ing in regular time, Reising scored 
Randy Haefner, a reserve for· ward for the Notre Dame basketball 
the tieing basket. In three minute team was injured yesterday during overtime, Molly McGuire scored practice. Haefner, a sophomoreonce and Chris Datzman racked up from Cincinnati, Ohio, received atwo points off foul shots. 
severe back injury when he leapt high in the air for a rebound and
Breen PhJUJps 23 Farley (1) 15 
was knocked off balance, throwing 
.,.,.,..,
the full force of his landing on his 
This match was also fairly close back. He was taken on a stretcher 

f.:9l
up to the half. In the second half 

to St. Joseph's hospital for diagno­Breen Phillips pulled away, holding 
sis and treatment. 

The Irish capitalized on layups to take a halftime lead before eventually bowing to their foes from 
across the street. 

J 


