
--~---------------------------------------------------------------------------~~­

by Molly MacCourtney Convention for consideration by the 
and Maggie Brydges presidential candidates as part of 
Staff Reporters the convention platform. 
The ND-SMC Women's Political Of particular interest to the Caucus last night adopted platform . Caucus were the planks relevant to positions in favor of abortion, women. Other issues included family planning, national health , national economic policy, busing, care and adoption of the Equal gun control and national defense. Rights Amendment (ERA). Caucus members cited medical 
The Caucus positions will be and constitutional arguments to submitted to the Notre Dame Mock support their pro-abortion stand. It resulted from the conclusion that 
the majority who may oppose 
abortion should not be able to inhibit the minority who may desire an abortion and whose constitu­tional rights may include abortion. The decision was also strongly based on a concern for proper medical treatment. 
The pro-family planning plank gained whole-hearted aom;;oval by 

To traditionally wind up this year's Mardi Gras activities, Father Hesburgh draws the winner of 
the raffle. Earl Floyd of Waterford, Michigan won the 1976 Chevy Nova, and Tom Burke, a 
sophomore from Grace Hall won the 19" color television. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
At St. Mary's 
Golden to leave admissions post 
by Mary Rukavina Staff Reporter 
Sister Anna Mae Golden will leave her post as St. Marys' Admissions Director effective June I, 1976. 
Golden's plans are to return to the teaching ranks after her four years as head of admissions. She will be a math instructor at Holy Cross Academy in Kensington, Maryland. 
A search committee is already in the process of looking for a replacement to fill the admissions post. 
liolden explained the hiring pro­cedure for her position. "The school advertises in chronicles of education. That is the usual pro­cedure for administrative positions. The search committee then follows up on resumes, conducts inter­views, and then makes a final decision." 
The admissions department was completely revamped under Gol­den's directorship. Several new policies and changes were made during her four years as Admis­sions Director. 
She commented on several ot the changes. "I came here right after the merger with Notre Dame fell through. Soon after, Notre Dame became coed which meant we had to re-evaluate our position, partic­ularly in terms of admissions." 
She continued, "We realized we had to revise our admissions sys­tem and some changes were made." Golden listed some of the changes. "We revised our admis­sions literature, organized an ex­tensive recruiting program, and conducted studies on different parts of the country where we receive heavy enrollment." 
"We instigated a volunteer pro­accomplished but said she was 
gram within the college where our generally well satisfied with her students act as hostesses to pros­success. pective applicants who have come 
As far as problems her replace­to visit the campus," she contin­ment might encounter stemmingued. 
from the job Golden pointed to the 
Golden added, "Probably our many pressures and headaches biggest change has been our associated with such a position. enlargement. We have almost She stated, "Admissions at St. 
doubled our department personnel Marys is considerably like Notre size in order to fulfill the demans of Dame's as far as alumni pressures, more personalized follow ups and although not as intensified." inquiries." 
Golden explained what St. Marys "This is natural though with admissions policy has been and will such a family oriented community continue to be. "Our recruiters in as St. Marys and Notre Dame," the field are looking for young she added. women in the upper one third of their class, well-rounded, and of 
Golden noted, "It is a rewarding. course interested in a small worn-· 
job and was an enjoyable exper­ens liberal arts college." 
ience, but it is time to move on to' "St. Marys is always looking for diversity in its student body," she added, "but diversity can be attained in many ways. For in­stance, we draw SO per cent of out student body from public high schools and the other SO per cent · from private or Catholic schools." 
The admtnistrator stated, "Al­though our student body isn't as economically as diverse as it could be, there are many reasons for this." She added, "Funds are necessary to bring in minority and economically disadvantaged stu­dents. You need a large endow­ment and most private schools just can't afford it, St. Marys being no exception." 
Golden commented on the aca­demic diversity. "We don't feel we are doing anyone any favors by admitting someone academically unacceptable, just because we want to achieve a diversity in our student body." 
the members of the caucus. Government appropriation for birth control and improved agricultural methods were the main features of the plank. 
Passage of the ERA also met with majority approval of the Caucus . Equal rights in social, political and economic areas were seen as an inherent part of the amendment. The caucus added the stipulation that women should take full responsibility for participation in the armed forces. 
The first issue discussed con­cerned economic growth through shared tax responsibility among military, corporate, and personal sectors. Boards comprised of equal representation would be set up to regulate federal spending. 
The Caucus unconditionally ac­cepted the pro-health-care plank of the platform. This advocated the institution of government-support­ed free clinics run by doctors fulfilling their military service re­quirements._ It also allowed for a national health insurance system and mandatory checkups for ele­mentary school children. 
Economic inconsistencies were determined to be the root of the busing problem. The caucus decided equality of school and administration standards should be strictly enforced. The majority affirmed that integration in the schools could prove beneficial. 
The caucus adopted a platform position in favor of stringent gun control. Provisions included strict registration laws, a three-month 
(continued on page 7) 
Syria may attack Israel in retaliation 
by Alex Efty Associated Press Writer BEIRUT, Lebanon AP -Syrian Defense Minister Mustafa Tlass said in an interview published Sunday that Syria will strike at Isreal if Isreali forces attack Leba­
non  to  sabotage  the  civil  war  
settlement.  He  also  said  an  
estimated  2,000  troops  of  the  

Palestine Liberation Army PLA, who entered Lebanon from Syria in the last days of the 10-month war, will pull out within a "month or two at the most. ""Gone is the time when Isreal used to threaten and attack," Tlass told the Beirut newspaper AI Hayat. "If Israel attacks to abort the settlement we shall strike out at her." 
AI Hayat, a Moslem-owned but right-leaning newspaper, said 
Tiass made his statements in an 
interview in Damascus, where 
Presidents Hafez Assad of Syria 
and Suleiman Franjieh of Lebanon 
put the final touches on the 
Syrian-sponsored agrement Satur­
day. 
Israeli leaders have expressed concern that Syrian sponsorship of the cease-fire could lead to Syrian dominance of Lebanon and turn this country into a belligerent state in the Mideast conflict. 
· Tlass said 67 Syrian army offi­cers superintending the cease-fire in Lebanon also will pull out with PLA units·. The PLA force rein­forced leftist Moslem Lebanese before the cease-fire went into effect Jan. 22. 
damascus meeting, Syria also pled­
ged to guarantee regulation of the 
presence in Lebanon of Palestinian 
guerrillas and their anti-Israeli 
activity here. 
The political agreement, an­nounced Saturday, reapportions power evenly between Lebanon's Moslem and Christian communities A constitutional document contain­ing the Moslem-demanded reforms will be announced this week, followed by formation of a national reconciliation government under Moslem Premier Rashid Karami, the Damascus communique said. 
"Hopes pinned on the Damascus summit to work out solutions for the crisis have now come true," Karami said after flying back to Beirut with Franjieh, a Christian. ''The course of the future is now paved." 
In the streets of Beirut, the faces of some of the 10,000 who died in the war stared ablankly from hundreds of posters as the living walked past Sunday. Each neigh­borhood and practically every street has its own open-air gallery of wall-poster photos of ''fallen martyrs." 
"He dies so Lebanon might stay alive," says a frequent slogan under pictures of men with names like George, John or Tony ­Christian names in Lebanon. "He died defending the dispos­sessed and the Palestine revolu­tion," say slogans on posters of persons named Ahmed, Mohham­med, Mustafa or Ali-Moslem 

Golden admitted there were still some things she would like to have close yesterday afternoon. (Photo by Chris Smith) 

--~-------------~-~~---~ 

the observer Monday, February9, 1976 
~--News Briefs--­
I========International 
More than 15,000 dead 
GUATEMALA CITY,,Guatemala.-At least 15,035 persons perished in Guatemala's devastating earthquake and aftershocks, the emergency relief committee announced Sunday. 
The committee said its death toll was revised on the basis of new reports from the Chilmaltenango area, 40 miles north of the capital. It estimated 40,000 persons were injured and 200,000 were made homeless by the quakes that began Wednesday. (See story page 7). 
Hua warns of 'bad elements' 
TOKYO--Hua Kuofeng, China's new acting premier, is a man who has warned of bad elements within Communist party ranks and called strongly for clearing them out. 
It is not known whether Hua's position is a stepping stone toward permanent premier status or whether he is to be caretaker during a long, sharp fight within the party over who would succeed the late Chou En-lai, China's premier for a quarter century. 
Speed skaters settle controversy 
INNSBRUCK--The United_ States' Olympic Committee refused again to budge in the controversy that has shaken the American speed skating team here, so the skaters settled things themselves Sunday. A skater many believed belonged in the Winter Games got his starting spot when a teammate stepped aside. 
Charles Gilmore of Anaheim, Calif., said yesterday he voluntarily was surrendering his berth in the men's 1,500 meters to Eric Heiden of Madison, Wis. Only a few hours earlier, the USOC rejected a request by Dr. Jack Heiden, Eric's father, to let his son start in next Friday's 1,500 race instead of Gilmore. 
I===============National 
MDs drop malpractice insurance 
WS ANGELES--Some doctors in various parts of the country have dropped their malpractice insurance because of its cost and are continuing to practice. This method of beating the high cost of liability coverage is a gamble which could cost uninsured doctors all their wealth and even future earnings. 
·~Goi~g bare" -pra~ti~ing without insurance -is occurring in Cahfornia, Nevada, Michigan, Tennessee, Texas, North Carolina and Alaska, according to spokesmen for the medical associations in those states. But they say it's hard to calculate the exact numbers of doctors involved. 
..,___On Campus Today-1 
2:30 pm --meeting, college of science college council in room 150, cce. 
3:30 pm --cardinal o'hare memorial lecture, "the american press 200 years later: still fighting" by maxwell macrobon, managing editor, chicago tribune, mem­orial library aud., sponsored by business administra­tion. 
4 pm --swim meet, st. bonaventure at n.d., rockne memorial. 
6:30 pm --mock national convention, platform committee & 
state reps., public invited, 127 nieuwland. 7 pm --meeting, chess club, rm. 227 computer-math bldg. 
7 pm --film, william shakespeare's "twelfth night" in 10 pm engineering aud., sponsored by the english dept. 
7:30pm --faculty seminar, "role of the press as a social force" by maxwell macrohon, managing editor, chicago tribune. room 121 hayes-healy center. 
--black cultural arts festival, panel discussion: "academics and athletics for the black athlete at n.d." with paula dawning, oscar t. brookins, larry I. thomas, willie fry, randy payne, gene smith and dan knott. library aud. reception following the cultural arts center, Iafortune. 
8 pm 
8 pm --basketball, st. bonaventure at n.d., ace. 
8 pm --travelogue series, "jamaica--island in the sun" by richard Iinde. o'laughlin aud. sponsored by scottish rite. tickets: $1.50. 
'-------------r~~~~~~-~~~-~-~~~~~~~w~i~lll~b~e:_:c~h~a~rgg_ce~d~a $10 late fee. 
(*The Observerl 
Night Editor: Val Zurblis 
Asst. Night Editor: John O'Calcutta 
layout: Bill Holtsnider Copy Reader: Don Reimer Day Editor: Mary Pat Tarpey Editorials: Martha Fanning Spo,-ts: Bill Brink 
Typists: M. Keefe, Karen Chiames, Z. Bidzinski, Hank Van Dyke. Night Controller: Howard Halle 
Ad layout: Joe Graif, Tom 
lWhelan ) 
..___-------­
The new Minolta SR·T i01. h makes fine photographyeasy. And easytoaftord. 
The Minolta SR-T 201 is loaded with features, quality and value. Come in for a demonstration, and see why Minoltas are the best selling 35mm single lens reflex cameras in America. Full 2-year Minolta U.S. A. warranty. 
AULT CAMERA CO. 
127 S. MICHIGAN 
SOUTH BEND 
233-6145 
Calls for 'Black agenda' 
Poinsett addresses festival 
by Nick D'Giuvine Staff Reporter 
Mr. Alex Poinsett, senior editor of Ebony Magazine, called for a "Black Agenda for the 1970's in the first address of the Black Cultural Arts Festival, given in the Library Auditorium last night. 
Speaking before a crowd of about 100, Poinsett explained that this agenda should encourage an effort to obtain a reformed income tax; a full employment program (citing that 25 per cent of all black workers are unemployed); quality health care; and full enforcement of voting and civil rights acts. 
Poinsett also proposed the for­mation of a Black Party, which would be entirely concerned with black problems and issues. He stressed, however, that the intent of this new party ''would not be to replace the existing Democratic and Republican Parties." Instead, it would give blacks a chance tc express their opinions on black issues and secondly, serve as an effective lobby. 
Black America today is in a state of crisis, according to Poinsett. Many of the racial victories won in the sixties have been lost in the seventies. He encouraged all blacks to re-evaluate themselves and their goals. 
Poinsett revealed that many black leaders are doubtful as to whether they will accept an invita­tion to join in the Bicentennial Celebration. They fell that, in Poinsett's words, "we have no­thing to celebrate." Also, they feel that the celebrations would merely "over shadow two centuries of' black oppression." 
Poinsett also expressed his sur­prise and displeasure in finding out that there were only two hundred black students at Notre Dame and only fourteen blacks on the faculty. 
Another important issue discus­sed by Poinsett was discrimination of blacks on the college level. He felt a need to publicize the discrim­inating actions of many universi­ties, which he termed "hypocritical cathedrals of liberalism," to the public. 
In Poinsett's opinion, black col­lege students of today do not have the same enthusiastic academic drive that black students of the fifties and sixties did. He noted that poor study habits and perhaps laziness could be reasons. 
Poinsett has a B.S. degree in journalism and a masters degree in philosophy, both received from the University of Chicago. He also 
Pay up, you guys! 
All undergraduate students pre­sently enrolled who plan on return­ing to the University for the fall semester of 1976, must advance register at the Office of Students' Accounts, room 102, Administra­tion Building. Registration must be made during the week of Feb. 9 to 13, from 9 a.m. to 11:30 p.m. and from 1:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. Students are required to make a $~0 deposit. Any student who advance registers after this period 
with 1.7 lens 
!"e editor, Alex Poinsett said last night that the r~ciai won m the 60s have been lost in the 70's and blacks are enc.ouraged to re-evaluate themselves and their goals. [Photo by Chris 
Sm1th] 
attended the University of Illinois. 
He is presently employed by the 
Johnson Publishing Company and 
an editor on the staff of Ebony 
Magazine. 
Among other things, he was a twelve-day guest of the govern­ment of the Republic of Kenya where he interviewed the presi­dent, Jomo Kenyatta. 
He has also written several books. Two of the best known are: Black Power Gary Style and Be­yond Watergate: The Challenge to Black People. 
Several-other activities have been planned for the rest of the six day Black Cultural Arts Festival. Tonight at 8:00 there will be a panel discussion in the Library Auditorium on the subject of "Academics and Athletics for the Black Athlete." 
On Tuesday there wiii be a 
The Obsenler is published Nonday through Ff'iday and weekly during the suiTI'Tll!l' session, except during the ex.am; and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St. Mlry's College. Subsaiptions rray be purdlased for $18 !$10 per semester) fro., The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
.l;iiiiiiiaiiiaiil•iii•nw;wiiiiiwii;iwiiiiiw;;iaiiiii=~-..-~.;;.~.~-~-~------, 
ARIETIES OF ITALIAN FOOD~
I PLUS STEAKS-CHOPS I 
DOROTHY, KITCHEN MANAGER AT THE II0LD FRANKIES, NOTRE DAME &HOWARD ST .11AlSO PREPARES CHICKEN VESUVIUS EVERY I 
TUESDAY. WE ARE PROUD TO CONTINUE A 1 FINE NOTRE DAME TRADITION AT vAlERIE'S. II
I
I BREAKFAST 6am -Mon thru Fri 
I I
1 7am · Saturday 1 LUNCH llam-3pm I DINNER 3pm-9pm Mon thru Fri I 
3pm-Spm Saturday Closed Sunday • 
VALERIE'S ~tf'P 
Restaurant ') • 
!N~t !0G~$~~ ~:9~:1 l tfw.IFQOD 
Li&lltttl frtt 1'1ltill& ill Our Lot 2 DHrs h. 011 lichipn 
Just a few blocks south of River Bend Plaza
..----------~~~~~-~------~ 
discussion of "Blacks in Business" at 8:00p.m. in the Library Lounge and on Thursday and Friday the movie "Sounder" will be shown in the Engineering Auditorium at 8:00 and 10:00 p.m. 
Organizers of the Festival stress that it is open to everyone. 
'li~ 
* : * :
'* ::
. . . 
STAR smuckl 
Be a star in your own realm with the most popular fashion accent of the year. Small stars, large stars, pierced stars . . all are stunning complements to your wardrobe .. in 14 Karat Gold, Gold Filled and Sterling Silver 
V4tt~9.~N!.gCn 
CONVENIENT CREDIT TERMS 
certified germlogists armrican gem sodety 
OUR YEAR OF SERVICE 
---------~-~-­
Law plagerism cases clarified by Dean Link 
Monday, February 9, 1976 
the observer 
3 
by Christie A. HerUhy 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Rumors of a ''Witch hunt against the first year class" were dispelled by Dean David T. Link Friday as he clarified the results of the ten alleged violations of the Notre Dame Law School Honor Code. 
Although it was a record number of cases, the dean later denied that the number reflected any trend in the law school. 
To an open forum assembled in the law school lounge the dean clarified that the plagerism cases involved the final projects of the legal research and writing, a first year course. Three students were found guilty and of those, two will be suspended for one year. Sanction is still pending on the third. 
The trials which followed the procedure outlined in the Hoynes Code were held in secrecy, names undisclosed. Two of the accused students chose to appear before the Honor Code committee consisting of three faculty members and three 
Candy and Pat of Lewis Hall entice gamblers to come to th Grace-lewis McDonald'sbooth. Breen-Phillips won the prize fo best designed booth, followed by Flanner and Grace-lewis. Keenan's Snoopy booth collected the highest amount of proceed for the second year in a row. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
Platform committee to vote on first planks thisevening 
Littlefield, Platform Chair, stressed 
A Mock Political Convention 
that all Platform Committee meet­
Platform Committee meeting will 
ings are open to the public and that 
be held tonight, Feb. 9, at 6:30 
his meeting is very important
p.m. in room 127 Nieuwland. Rich 
because the first planks will be voted on by the committee. 
Intruder enters 
Littlefield also noted that all State Representatives to the Plat­O'Shaugnessy form Committee should attend the meeting. All Platform Committee members should also attend the
bY, Kathleen McEntee 
meeting.
Staff Reporter 
An unidentified intruder entered 
In other Convention activities,
O'Shaugnessy Hall early Friday 
the Women's Caucus will sponsormorning, upsetting bookshelyes an orientation night for all dele­
and overturning desks. accordmg gates and interested parties on to Arthur Pears, director of securi­Tuesday, Feb. 10 at 7:30 p.m. in ty. rm. 127 Nieuwland. Nancy Bren­ner will discuss the Convention Pears noted that ''there was no rules and Harry Cepadano will 
sign of a break-in" and that a key discuss the campaign situation. 
students selected by the president of the Student Bar Association (SBA). Seven others, however, opted to go solely before the dean. 
The investigation involved re­searching the papers, talking with the professor and grader, and then finally confronting the individuals with the papers in which a co-oc­curence was detected. In three paired cases, final papers appeared to be similar. In one case the papers were duplicates. The two students had their papers typed by a South Bend typist who accidently typed the same drafts twice. 
"There was no forced use of lie detectors as rumored,'' Dean Link affirmed. "The law of polygraphs will not allow it. Two students volunteered to take polygraphys and we gave them the opportuni­ty." 
Although lie detectors have been shown to be 90 percent reliable in affirming innocence, they are not completely reliable in proving guilt, the dean added. 
''The evidence was helpful to the two students. Ifthe tests were bad, the results would not have hinder­ed them. The tests, however, were not necessary in either case," Link said. 
The large number of allegations arose in part from the vague rules defining the amount of assistance permitted in completing the final projects. In practice, projects students were allowed to work together, but in the final they could talk about their projects to others only in "general terms." 
The problem of looseness in the final was definitely a factor which we weighed in these cases, Link said. "The students had different understadnings as_ to how far they could go." 
The two convicted students were suspended rather than expelled from the law school on grounds that there was no "character flaw" which would prevent them from becoming ethical professionals, Link clarified. 
''They admitted their guilt at the first hearing. These were salvage­able cases. There was no reason that these two could not become future lawyers," Link continued. After one year the students will be readily accepted back into the law school. 
The allegations prompted an investigation as to whether the present honor code should continue at the Notre Dame Law School. The honor code is a student operated set of rules and proce­dures regarding the ethical taking of exams and the preparing of research papers. In signing to uphold the code upon admittance to the law school, the students also agrees to "report to the dean or president of the SBA those circum­stances suggesting a violation." The withholding of such informa­tion is therefore a "dishonest act" according to Article 2. 
An alternative to the honor code would be aj faculty imposed set of rules enforced by faculty police­ment. The difference involves taking exams in proctored rooms and a reduction in the number of take-home finals. 
Dean Link also suggested an optional honor code, a successful procedure which existed prior to 1962. Those students who did not sign the code took exams in different rooms. Those who com­mitted themselves to the code, on the other hand, were responsible for turning in their fellow students if violation occured. 
Link passed out a questionnaire to those attending the open forum. The questions sampled student opinion towards the ethical invi­ronment at the law school as well as the desireability of continuing the present honor code. 
"The code only works if the students are willing to turn in fellow students," Link believes. "I think there should be a student policed honor code and that we should live under it." 
Riots paralyze Barcelona 
Catalans demand home rule 
BARCELONA, Spain -AP -Thou­sands of Catalans demanding home rule and political liberty defied police Sunday in the biggest anti­government demonstrations in Bar­celona since the Spanish Civil War. 
Police fired rubber bullets and smoke grenades, bullied demon­strators and pounded on honking automobiles but were unable to stop the scores of protests that paralyzed the Catalan capital for more than five hours. 
The city's streets were littered with broken glass and park benches as demonstrators fired back with stones. Some sectors of the city were in a virtual state of siege. Several injurtes and arrests were reported. 
Police did not give an estimate on the number of demonstrators, but an organizer of the protest said at least 50,000 persons took part, and that the number of participants !conceivably ·ould have been twice that many. 
The protest was the biggest show of opposition power, despite mas­sive police precautions, against the new government since it took over after the death of Gen. Francisco Franco last November. 
The Catalan region in northeast Spain won autonomy in 1932 from the republican government. Fran­co abolished it after winning the civil war 7 years later. 
But the region, the wealthiest in Spain, and its 7 million people have retained strong feelings for more independence from the central government. The Catalan lang­uage still is banned from official use although it is widely spoken. 
the height of Sunday's protest, police jumped in and out of buses and jeeps chasing demon­strators. But it soon became evident they could not keep up with the street protests. One politician estimated as many as 20 street demonstrations were under way at one time. 
The demonstrators shouted against King Juan Carlos and leaflets called for the ouster of Premier Carlos Arias Navarro. 
The protests peaked when youths wrapped the Catalan flag around a monument in Victory Square. The monument honored Franco's victory in the 1936-39 Civil War. 
Hundreds of motorists joined in the demonstration by honking their horns in time to chants for "liberty, 
liberty." Others left their stalled cars to wave handkerchiefs in sipport of the street marchers. 
Police bloodied several passers­by. They clubbed one girl to the sidewalk in front of a bank and left her there screaming. 
Amon~ those arrested was Rev. 
Our 49th Anniversary! 
Special Prices thru Feb. 12 
ALL SEATS $1.00 
MaQAc:tJIX....CONDOil IN ltW: NEXT IEYBII'Y·TWD ..,._ M.IIDS1' nurwDHI: ..~ 
Wl.l.TWY'1'01QLL ... 
CUPP-1­
IIAX-­
Ill 

GIVE YOUR LOVED ONE 
what he or she really deserves ­an Observer 
VALENTINE Classified 
Special Issue Feb. 13 
for only $1.00. 
intruder or as to motives for a deal !
~~ ~ ~ the ~~tity ~ the~~---•••••~~~~~=~~-------~-~,~~~~~;;~===~-~
action. 
Luis Maria Xirinachs, 43, a Roman Catholic priest who has been staging a series of vigils across the street from Barcelona's provincial prison in support of amnesty. He was seized in a downtown cafe. 
Catalan political leaders called the demonstrations a success al­though they did not reach their main objective -massing in front of the Catalan Parliament building to demand autonomv. 
Called by the illegal Assemblv of Catalonia, 11 political groups ranging from the Communist party to the center-left and Christian Democrats, the demonstration ex­panded to what has ballooned to national dimensions -amnesty for political prisoners. 
down and around. Sterling silve( heart with fifteen-inch chain,$ 34. 
DFFANY&CO. 
CHICAGO 715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. ZIP: 60611 TB-: (312) 944-7506 Desiun Copyrlf!'l, I litany & Co. 1976 
~-­
*~d.~~ver 
Foundfd November 3, 1966 
EDITORIAL BOARD of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessuily Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief reflect the policies of either Institution. The news Is reported The Observer is published by the students of the University AI Rutherford Managing Editor as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent 
the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­mentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, cartoons and regular columns express the views of their  Jim Eder Pat Hanifin Bob Mader  Executive Editor Editorial Editor News Editor  
authors.  Column space is available to all members of the  Maureen Rynn  Ci1111JUS Editor  
community, and leHers are encouraged to promote the free  Mary Janca  St. Mary's Editor  
expression of varying opinions on campus.  Ken Bradford  Copy Editor  
Val Zurblis  Wire Editor  
Editorials: 283-1715  News: 213-1661  Business: 283-7471  Tom O'Neil  Features Editor  
Business Manager  Tom Modglin  Bill Brink  Sports Editor  
Advertising Manager  Tom Whelan  Dan Sanchez  Senior Night Editor  

Monday, February 9, 1976 
P. 0. Box Q 

whores; in which babies are a punishment for active heterosex­
Asexual 
uality; in which guilt and hurt surround normal expressions of affection; in which feeling good and 
Outpost 
being yourself are considered sin­ful; in which homosexuals are more Dear Editor: 
despised the more normal their life-styles are; in which producing I was appalled by the inhuman 
and abusing unwanted children is attitudes presented in your article 
considered natural; in which the about the Vatican's latest assault enjoyment of one's own body in 
on natural and healthy sexual private is considered shameful: behavior. "The obvious purpose of unless we wish to live in that kind sexuality is reproduction"--unless 
of world, we must resolutely reject you happen to be a human being. or wisely ignore teachings, from Alien creatures observing genital 
whatever source, that deny the sex from an asexual outpost on 
humanity we should enjoy as the Mars (or the Vatican) and trying to 
images and children of God. figure out what it was all about without being able to experience it 
Ron Grove themselves would probably first inv~stigate purely biological expla-Wh t 
nations. 
The evolution of sexuality un­doubtedly began as a means of reproduction insuring a greater diversity of genetic characteristics within the same species, but in the higher animals it became more than a mechanism by which the stock survives. Those who allege that the reproductive possibilities of sex are the most important ones (or even necessary at all) for individual human beings debase the human spirit, deny almost universal human experience, and encourage neurotic and damaging patterns of sexual behavior. 
Interest in genitality begins long before puberty and continues after fertility has disappeared precisely because mutual pleasure, not nec­essarily including animal reproduc­tion, is the main function of human sexuality. With all the things in the world that make life hard and painful, denying the only universal­ly available creature comfort to oneself or others is criminally cruel. Limiting it to the confines of heterosexual marriage (as if marri­age were a license without which sex is impermissible) is a decision no one can make for anyone else. 
Unless we wish to live in a society in which women must be either housewives or nuns or 
a Does the Pope know? 
Dear Editor: 
The following is a statement provoked by the recent Vatican declaration concerning sexual con­duct and misconduct: 
To the People of Gentle Upbring­ing: 
Is there no end to the wretched­ness and degeneration which we, as people of articulate sensitivity, must bear? Is man specifically, and society in vivo, merely-a medium through which filth-mon­gers and cesspool philosophers inject perverse glee into the hea­ving expectations, yea, the sweet­bloated hissings inherently crouch­ing in the anterooms and styrene liners of humankind's psyche, weak under the bludgeon of temp­tation, stained and torn by the passing shadows of that which man fails to criticize? 
Surely religious confusion is, in part, to blame for the descent of man, parcheesi-like and swift, to the dung-laced shores of ebbing passion. Compassion replaced, not 

"Nothin' to It!" I 
. . . I 
with empathy or understanding, but by soft, blind reassurances that every man, drawing upon his own inner resources, has within him the capacity of failure. 
What then does the Pope know? Can he, an alienated representative of spiritually archaic thought-forms commit himself to more than a statutory rapport with those of us who are his more unsavory sheep? I speak, I think, for all of those at this university of Our Lady who have been persecuted and reviled salivatingly by other members of the academic and religious com­munities because we hold dear to us beliefs, desires, needs, and stimulatory wishes and techniques that run "contrary to the moral philosophy expressed by most ho­mo sapiens." 
I speak for flashers, neurotics, fetish lovers, Teutonics, psycho­tics, ax-handle murderers, compul­sive lavatory gigglers, stamp col­lectors, those of multi-sexual in­clinations, and anthropoids when I say that our behavior is not "ser­iously disordered", but rather a natural outgrowth and beautiful expression of the specific emotions and special perceptions that God has seen fit to bestow upon us 'in our development of unique personali­ties. We are a heaving, vital community which seeks fulfillment, as everyone does in life, through the means which best equip us for functioning in today's world. 
We fail to see any concrete motivation, other than blind pre­judice, for such persecution direc­ted towards ourselves, and we have been known to get quite agitated and often, in human weakness, lose control in the face of such unseeing stupidity. 
Therefore we ask that those in places of authority recant contrite­ly the damaging statements made concerning life-habits before we are forced to crush their systems of organization viciously and with the most frenzied malevolence. 
Yours In Notre Dame, 
Section 9-C 
Grace Ball 
DOONESBURY 
ANO'I_ I 6t//35S IUHAT I NEE/? JOAN!&, 
10 KNOW 15 .. tuHATAR& • 11/EU., IF )(}t/.. 'ttJtJT~YIN13 
• YOt/ KNOW, IF.. TO ASK ME? \ I 
OH, FOR 60/JSSAI<E, Y&5! I 
Misconstrued History Lesson 
Dear Editor: 
Pat Hanifin concluded his "His­tory Lesson", Tuesday's commen­tary in the Observer, by voicing his fear that there would be no peace in our time. Indeed, if we all misconstrue history to the same magnitude as Mr. Hanifin, his fear will no doubt become reality. 
Mr. Hanifin states that the Senators and Congressmen who votedoverwhelmingly to cut off aid to the pro-western groups in Ango­la have learned the wrong lesson from Vietnam. The lesson to be learned, according to Mr. Hanifin, is that we did not fight to win in Vietnam, that we "put too many limits on the use of our power." I wonder how the Vietnamese people would react to such a view -these people who wept during the most massive daily bombing raids in history-raids which make Hitler's bombings of Britain seem trivial in comparison. 
Must we stand by once again and watch Americans look at a small country as a battleground for the United States and the Soviet Union, instead of what it actually is -a small country which has recently 
gained  its  independence,  and  
which  is  trying  to  unify  and  
nationalize  its  people  under  one  
government?  

Perhaps it is Mr. Hanifin who has learned the wrong lesson from Vietnam. What our Congressmen have finally learned is that you cannot stop a revolutionary idea from spreading with military might; if Vietnam taught us no­thing else, it taught us that bombs cannot destroy ideas. It taught us · that America has no right to use its great military-industrial complex to support corrupt, quasi-democratic governments in nationalistic fights against opposing communist go­vernments which have the support 
of that nation's people. 
It taught us that the fate of Vietnam was ultimately, as John F. Kennedy once stated (whom Mr. Hanifin also misinterpreted), for the Vietnamese to decide, just as ultimately the fate of Angola will be decided by the Angolans. 
But our most important lesson of all was that we. should never again listen to the Mr. Hanifin's who urge us to rush into civil wars when we understand neither that na­tion's history or culture. Ameri­cans are only now realizing that we fought a war which was both morally wrong and unnecessary in Vietnam. Our Congressmen are now seeing to it that we don't repeat this tragedy. 
With all of Mr. Hanifin's worries that the US is somehow _losing a 
by Garry Trudeau 
I',+t TI<Y/N(J 
TO ASK YOt/.. ..W&U ... ANI?Y­A80t/T I JU5TWIWT /JJHAT, 
TO KNW HOW JOANt5? YO(J F&&l-.. I 
I 
Monday, February 9, 1976 the observer 
Hoynes renovation to be completed by MarCh 
by Cathy Nolan January. 1976. of 120 each. They will serve as cal tile for soundproofing has been number of students taking piano 
Staff Reporter "The proposed completion date choral and instrumental rehearsal installed in every room and in the lessons had increased from 32 to of January was very flexible," areas and will also be used for halls and lobby as well. New light 200 since 1973. stated Cerny. "We had to post­lectures and ·recitals. fixtures were put in. The build­Cerny also noted the growth of
Completion of Hoynes Hall reno­pone the move because the renova­The renovated building will also ing's interior has been painted and student choral groups as a factor.
vation, originally scheduled for tion is not yet finished. We are have 20 practice rooms and 12 carpeting is being laid down. "When I came to Notre Dame, theJanuary, 1976, will be delayed until optimistic the building will be teaching studios. Sixteen of the The renovation of second floor is only student group was the men'smid March according to Dr. Will­ready for occupancy by spring practice rooms will contain pianos, finished," said Cerny. "All the Glee Club. We now have Chapeliam Cerny, music department chai-· break in March." while the other four will contain major work has been completed. Choir, University Chorus, and rman. Hoynes Hall is being The music department is cur­organs. The studios will also Now it is simply a matter of a few Chorale. There are also manyrenovated to accomodate the De­rently located in O'Shaugnessy function as faculty offices. details that must be taken care of." students ensembles.''
partment of Music. Hall. Hoynes Hall will provide the The renovation of Hoynes Hall Cerny added that the department
Renovation of the building began department with approximately Cerny noted the need for more
has virtually transformed the entire 
hopes to move the pianos during
music space as an important factor in the
in August, 1975. The three times as much space. The building, ;according to Cerny. The spring break. Once the instru­
department had tentatively plan­building will have three large decision to renovate Hoynes Hall.
divisions were removed and all new 
ments have been moved, the the added room will
Cerny feelsned to move into Hoynes Hall by classrooms with a seating 'capa~ity rooms were constructed. Acousti­building will be ready for use by enable the music department to the students. 
attain its full potential. "Music is a Cerny cited increased enrollment competitive field," he commented. 
in the music department as a
'Pop' Farley brought back to life 
reason for the move. "Student "Notre Dame has never really interest in music, whether· it be a been a part of this competition.
by Jim flahaven choral group or a music apprecia­With new fadlities, Note Dame canStaff Reporter 
tion course, has grown tremen­compete musically on a national dously," commented Cerny. The level."
Father Farley had just two greetings for students and faculty: "Hi boy", or if your shoulders 
Freight train kills 11
drooped, "Hold 'em back." Such colorful greetings, well known to the all-male student body 
children in camper
here SO years ago, were brought to life again by Professor Tom Schler­BECKEMEYER, Ill. (AP) Southern Illinois town's business eth last night at Farley Hall. "They didn't suffer," a Baptist district before stopping beside a 
Schlereth, an associate professor minister said hollowly in a hospital grain elevator. 
of American Studies, gave a slide waiting room filled with the parents Scattered among the bodies were presentation on Farley who dedi­of 11 children killed when a freight about 10 pairs of roller skates. The cated most of his life to Notre Dame train slammed into a camper truck town's part-time police chief, Rob­before his death in 1939. at an unguarded railroad crossing ert Phillips, said the children were 
In portraying the many facets of here. bound for a roller rink in nearby Farley, Schlereth told of the "dis­Leonard Lowe, 60, or Carlyle, six Highland where they skated every tinctly Farley" way of doing things. of his grandchildren and five other Saturday evening. For instance, his method of deliver­youngsters ranging in age from "He -Lowe-couldn't have been 
ing mail. When Farley was the four to 18 were killed Saturday going more than 5 m.p.h.," said 
rector of a hall, he did not allow night when the camper van Lowe Phillips. "He was going across the students to get the hall mail as was driving was struck by a 56-car tracks to pick up more kids." other rectors did. Instead Farley Baltimore and Ohio freight train. There were no bells, gates or himself got the mail, then gathered Four other youths in the vehicle warning lights on the crossing, a his students together, and person­survived. One suffered minor injur­cement street which rises several 
ally distributed it. ies but another was in critical feet as it traverses the railroad 
"If the letter had any suggestion condition. right of way. The railroad said the that it was from a young woman, train was traveling at about 56 Farley would embellish on it,'' said The wreckage, unrecognizable as miles an hour. Schlereth, "and if the letter was for a truck except for two rear wheels All but two of the dead and all of a student trying to remain incon­which remained inflated, careened the injured were taken to St. spicuous by standing to the rear of down the tracks past this tiny Joseph's Hospital in Breese 
the group. Fr. Farley might drop the letter making the student come In Flanner forward through his fellow students who added further embellish­ments." 
Bomb threatened 
Other high points of Schlereth's by William Shaughnessy Mr. Pears termed these types ofpresentation included stories of Staff Reporter incidents rare, but stated, "TheyFarley's monitering of the infam­are dangerous because they wouldA bomb threat was phoned into detract from Security's capabilitiesNotre Dame Security last Thursday if a real emergency occurred."
morning, according to Mr. Arthur A false felony report such as thisPears, director of Campus Securi­one is punishable by up to sixty. 
months in jail.
bv Louise Cook The caller, phoning at 12:19 from Associated Press Writer 
phia meeting. It decided instead, chairman, said the group will an off-campus location, warned 
~···········~· 
To advertise or not to advertise? to recommend only that lawyers be submit a broader report for consi-that a bomb would explode in 
r_.·-!IJere IS a ••• 
That is the question facing lawyers, permitted to provide a limited deration at the ABA meeting in Planner Hall twenty minutes later. doctors and other professionals amount of additional information in Atlanta in August. Father John Mulcahy, Rector ofd : difference!!{ -;. who are under growing pressure directory listings and some other The Supreme Court ruled last Flanner, was immediately notified. : llfWMMI'Oit : from government and consumer publications. June that Virginia lawyers could He ord~r~d a thorough search_ of • C o.., n ,.,,. • groups to end traditional bans on Lewis H. Van Dusen Jr. of not enforce orice-fixing schedules. the b utldmg by Campus Secunty, • M AT ,,lllllltlfiCI • advertising. U "t d St h. but decided agl!inst evacuating it. : DAT -~CIII : 
The issue will be a key one at the 
American Bar Association meeting n1 e ates t trd •-----------------. : LSAT ""'" ctn... : 
YOIUIIUIIOUI '-t
in Philadelphia later this week in Olympic medals I A4, I •. GRE • •• 
when the lawyers consider and : GMAT ,,..., ""'''..~' : 
INNSBRUCK (AP) -The Medals I 'i... •·'" • •ethics code change that would ease 
: QCAT Courtn 1~11 '" •
tabulation after Sunday's events in I \J'y
the group's flat prohibition on : (pAT 
conll:lly IIPUIH :
the 12th Winter Olympic Games I · advertising. 
table reflects gold, silver, bronze {"~ 2 DAYS OF REFLECTION
The ABA's committee on ethics •. VAT r.,. IKohlt•l IOf : 
IIVIfWI If CIIU e
and professional 'responsibility had and total medals. Positions based 1 ~V : SAT ItI lOft I llld lor Ulf e 

been studying a proposal to allow on gold medals won: advertising in all media, including newspapers, radio and television. 7 2 5 14
USSR
The proposal would have retained E. Germany 4 4 2 10 the ban on advertising that "im­
u.s. t 3 2 6 
plies unusual legal ability." Law­W. Germany 1 2 1 4 yers also would have been prohi­Finland 1 1 1 3 bited from recommending their Austria 1 1 1 3 own employment or that of an a switzerland 0 1 1 2 associate. Canada 0 1 0 1 
Earlier this month, however, the Norway$ 0 0 1 1 committee decided not to push for Italy 0 0 1 1 

~~ 
• FlEX of IUfiOittMnt•r, • 
......,..11 •
DATE: FEB 15, SUNDAY 
: ECFMG • :
• Mth up1lor
1 PLACE: OLD COLLEGE • 
"'''"• l•non• :
1 DIRECTOR: BILL TOOHEY • NAT'l MED BDS :
I •• 
CSC •• NAT'l DENT BDS :
I • • • • • • • • • 
• 
Molt CIOIMI IIIII 8 WHkt :
• 
proor 10 e..m • 
Sprong & Foil compacu •
I DATE: MARCH 21, SUNDAY •
• Somo courMt otJered on e
I 
PLACE: OLD COLLEGE • Mooor CompuMt e
2 •• • • • • • • • • • • 
DIRECTORS: DAVE BURRELL INDIANAPOLIS • 
6620 Gr"n1h.re Dr•ve lnd~tnopolol. lnd 48220 
I • • 
I esc 
13171 842-1287 
JOHN GERBER, 
:• . • • • • • • • • • 
CHICAGO CENTER :
I 
• 
(312) 754'-5151 •
I esc 
• 
I 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION & SIGN-UP: 
CAMPUS MINISTRY, 103 LIB., 6536/8832 
BABY-SITTERS PROVIDED IF NEEDED 
==tJ-tt!:i • !!TIONAL CIN! • i. 
..., ........,tON •
LIMIT OF 15 PERSONS EACH DAY 

..riOAloiiUIOOrl •1• ~· 
II'JI-­
----····-.e• 
••..-.: .... ,_ illlltOO U' ':•1... 

By experimenting on germ-free rats, a team led by Dr. Morris 
Pollard has found evidence of genetic susceptibility to intestinal 
cancer. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
Bentson may withdraw 
OKLAHOMA CITY (AP) -Sen. Lloyd Bentsen was reevaluating his campaign Sunday after trailing badly in Oklahoma precinct cauc­uses, signalling that he may be dropping out of the race for the Democratic presidential nomina­tion. 
Bentsen said in a statement telephoned here from Texas by a spokesman that he is ''taking a close look" at his future campaign plans. The spokesman declined to answer specifically whether the statement meant the Texas senator might drop out of the race for the nomination. 
But two weeks ago, after Bent­sen finished fourth of five candi­dates in Mississippi with less than two per cent of the vote, a source close to him said if he finished a weak third in the Oklahoma cauc­uses, he might have to drop out. 
In fact, with nearly 70 per cent of the precincts counted, he had only 
l 
11.97 per cent of the committed delegates, just slightly ahead of Alabama Gov. George Wallace and considerably behind the uncom­mited delegates, 35.4 per cent; former Oklahoma Sen. Fred Harris, who had 19.89 per cent and former Georgia Gov. Jimmy Carter, who had 19.87 per cent. 
"It would be pretty tough," the Bentsen source said of the possibil­ity of a poor showing in Oklahoma. "He'd have to slide out or say it ain't possible. That's his neighbor­ing state. He's got to run strong." 
Bentsen, from neighboring Tex­as, had one of the largest campaign organizations in Oklahoma and spent heavily for media exposure ­television and radio spots and newspaper advetisements. 
"In light of the outcome in Oklahoma, I'm taking a close look at my plans, talking to supporters in Texas and across the country," Bentsen's statement said. "I'll have a statement after I can evaluate the situation." 
Just days before the caucuses, Bentsen had said Oklahoma was not a "make or break" state, and he planned to stay in the campaign regardless of his showing. 
His supporters had predicted, however, that he would run well, and his campaign was pitched primarily to his closeness to Okla­homa and his understanding of the problems facing Oklahoma farm­ers, ranchers and oilmen. 
Ford addresses UNH 
Gene~ code linked to cancer in Notre Dame's laboratofies 
by L. Abraham Rowe, Jr. Staff Reporter 
Scientists at Notre Dame's Lo­bund Laboratories have been inves­tigating long-range microbial ef­fects, with germ-free and gnoto­biotic animals for almost thirty years. Recent cancer research at the laboratories has shown a direct link between the genetic code and susceptibility to cancer. 
Dr. Morris Pollard, director of Lobund and chairman of the de­partment of Microbiology, said, "We have revealed clear evidence of genetic susceptibility to intes­
ln Angola 
tina) cancer." 
A research team led by Drs. Pollard and Tomoaki Asano fed a chemical called dimethylhydrazine to three pure strains of germ-free rats in order to induce cancer of the colon. 
The rats received identical treatment; however, their reactions were far from identical. One hun­dred percent of the animals in one strain developed intestinal cancers. In the second strain, none of the animals developed cancer. Some of the animals in the third strain developed cancer, while others did not. 
Reds gain control 
By The Associated Press 
Soviet-backed Popular Move­ment forrces have taken control of the town of Santo Antonio do Zaire, "an important populated area" in northeast Angola, Tass said Sunday. 
The official Soviet news agency said '' a large number of enemy personnel were captured during the seizure of this port town situated close to the border with Zaire." 
Opposing United Front FNLA and mercenary forces continue to hold two other towns along the Angola-Zaire border, the Luanda­datelined dispatch said. 
On the eastern front, Popular Movement MPLA troops captured the town of Lomege, opening the way to a major transport junction on the Benguela railway known as Lozo, Tass said. 
-The news a~ency also quoted from an i':!_terv~ew given by MPLA Defense Minister Enrique Carrera to an Italian newspaper, RepubUca, in which he said the northern military operations are nearing completion. 
After mop-up and consolidation operations in the north, Carrera was quoted as saying the MPLA troops would concentrate on the southern front against South Afri­can troops and forces of the Union for the Total Independence of Angola, UNITA. 
Tanzanian Foreign Minister I­brahim Kaduma, who just returned home after a tour of Angola and 
audience 
announced trip to China on the eve of the-voting here. He said Nixon was going as a private citizen and had no obligation to report to Ford. 
-Repeated his call, issued in Washington last week, for a consti­tutional amendment turning the abortion issue over to the states. 
-Said he still favors a constitu­tiona) amendment, first offered in the 1960's, to allow prayer in public schools. It was the first time in the two-day trip that Ford directly attacked Reagan, or any of the Democrats in the field, although in h_is public .statem~nts he _has con­ststently trted to pt~ture htmself as the sohd, . responstble leader a?d 
other African countries, said the MPLA controls 70 per cent of Angola militarily and 100 per cent politically. 
He told an interviewer from government-owned Radio Tanzania that the Organization of African Unity should grant membership to the People's Republic of Angola, as thea_ MPLA calls its Luanda-based 
re~me. 
In Bloemfontein, South Africa, meanwhile, Interior minister Con­nie Mulder launched a scathing attack on U:S. policy in Angola. 
He described the Soviet involve­ment in the southwest African state as the most blatant act or interference in the affairs of an­other country since the Cuban missile episode of 1962. 
Mulder told a political rally that the Angolan situation had been an ideal opportunity for the United States to take revenge on the Soviet Union for what had happened in Vietnam. But he said every fourth year the United States became virtually powerless because of the sensitivities of candidates in presi­dential elections. 
Mulder said the Russians were thoroughly aware of this and exploited it. 
The interior minister also · said 
the U.S. Congress apparently wanted to show who was boss in the 
United States after the Watergate 
scandal, and that it was question­
able whether such a country was 
still worthy of being considered the 
leader of the Western world. 
Because the experiment was conducted in a controlled environ­ment, the only differences were in the genetic characters of the ani­mals. The susceptible rats did not develop cancer spontaneously, but every rat in the susceptible strain which consumed the cancer­causing drug developed intestinal tumors. _ 
"This further supports our view that very important factors in the production of human colon cancer are found in the environment--very possibly in the diet--and that the disease will appear most frequently in those who are genetically sus­ceptible," Pollard said. "The pos­sibility that susceptible individuals will develop colon cancer may depend on their exposure to the cancer-inducing agent.'' 
The next step for Lobund scien­tists is to determine the chemical nature of resistance to cancer. 
The germ-free animals obtained by Caesarian section, are main­tained in a germ-free environment for their entire life. The gnotobiotic animals are obtained by the same method, but they are raised in an environment which contains a spec­ific microbial flora, that is, the experimenter knows exactly which microbes the animals are living with. The researcher may then study and accurately define the effects of a singular microbe on the animal's life-cycle. 
One of the revelations to come from studies at Lobund Laborator­ies is that germ-free rats have less lymphoid tissue and lower serum gamma-globulin. Both of these are part of the body's immunal system. With no microbes to fight, the defense system is decreased. Also, germ-free rats have a lower cardiac output and decreased blood flow to certain areas. 
Studies on germ-free intestinal tracts indicate that conventional animals, those which are not germ-free, have a chronic intestinal inflammation. Also, germ-free rats live longer than their conventional counterparts. The males generally outlive the females, a trend which is reversed in conventional rats. 
MICHIANA TAX SERVICE 
gets you more $$! we do out of state returns 684-6063 or 289-5193 

DURHAM N.H. (AP) -Presi­dent Ford told a student audience dotted with hecklers Sunday night that "acrimony and antagonism 
left over from another day" only get in the way of progress. 
Ford addressed some 3,500 peo­pie at the University of New Hampshire basketball arena in an appearance marked by periodic jeers from the crowd. But the applause for the President repeat­edly drowned out heckling. 
Earlier, Ford had made his first direct attack on challenger Ronald Reagan in his two-day trip cam­paigning in the nation's first pri­mary state. He said he thinks the voters will accept him on his record in the New Hampshire presidential 
primary rather than Reagan's "rhetoric and words." During a question period follow­ing the speech, Ford was asked if Angola were a Vietnam situation, 
would the United States get into it with manpower and support. His answer was: "There is no possibil­
ity that this country in any way mine our abililty to face the future with better results," Ford said. "Blind criticism is no better than blind faith." 
In an earlier news conference for New Hampshire reporters, Ford voiced confidence the voters will accent his record. 
Although Ford's campaign aides have conceded he faces a tough fight against Reagan in the Feb. 24 voting, the President said, "I'm quite optimistic" and that he sees no necessitv for debatin~ Reagan. 
In answer to other questions asked by New Hampshire reporters at the University of New Hamp­shire here, Ford als~said \te 'bad no 
e would get involved in Angola withe LARGE, OVEN-BAKED : 
American manpower.'' e · • Hostile placards alternated with e APPLE PANCAKES e 
friendly ones in the stands. Mem-e ., 
1
bers of the People's Bicentennial • -A REAL TREAT-e Commission held signs reading: • · "Ford, Btg Business President." • WE NEVER COMPROMISE WITH QUALITY : 
1!tat group also demonstrated out-ei U.S. 31 (Dixieway North) • 
stde the arena. e ( · . .-• "Acrimony and antagonism left & ACROSS FROM, HOLIDAY INN) • over from another day only under-........• e e • • e • • • • • • e e • • t ••._._. • • ea 
objections~o 'former Presid~nt~ixon's pthers as tmpetuous, controversial · and unstable. 
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • e • • • • • • • • • • • •• 
: , .., QlolJJUlll -: 
• •r • 
e ' k 31; 
e anca f arJiliJf .:~ 
• 
• FEATURING : 
~ -----~~ ~-~·-----,l 
Monday, February 9, 1976 the observer 7 
Death toll rises in Guatemala quake l 
GUATEMALA CITY,Guatemala •  false Red Cross  arm  bands  were  · and estimated another 30,000~per­ 
AP-At least 12,804 persons per­ arrested for distributing sleeping  sons were injured and 200,000 were  
ished in Guatemala's devastating  pills as antibiotics with the plan to  homeless  from  the  quakes  that  
earthquake  arid  aftershocks,  the  loot  homes after  the  owners  fell  began Wednesday.  
emergency relief committee an­ asleep.  Foreign correspondents in rural  
nounced Sunday.  President Eugenio Laugerud or­ areas saw hundreds of still un­ 
Police reported two looters were  dered police and soldiers to shoot  buried bodies bloating in the sun,  
shot and killed by residents defend­ looters.  An aide quoted  him  as  and private relief agencies predic­ 
ing their homes in Guatemala City  saying, "Ladron visto, ladron  ted  the  final  death  toll  would  
and there was sporadic gunfire in  muerto" -thief seen, thief de a.  exceed 14,000.  
three  of  the  capital's  districts.  . The emergency committee based  Two field hospitals, from Nicar­ 
They also said five  men  wearing  its new death toll on burial reports  agua and the United States,  were  

ABC covers sports 'olympic style' 
being set up over the weekend. The Nicaraguan unit, used during the 1973 earthquake that destroyed Managua and killed 10,000 has 40 beds. Two hundred people were being treated by it. The most seriously hurt were transferred to Guatemala City in a cracker factory truck. 
Even before the 100-bed U.S. hospital was set up, doctors were treating a long line of injured lying 
in the dust. · · The Red Cross distributed beans and corn meal near the main plaza, the first food to be handed out since the quake. A riot almost started 
The distribution continued. Each person got a small container of black beans, one of corn to make tortillas and a handful of powdered milk. Women with no containers carried food in their skirttails. Children scampered under the food truck picking up fallen beans. 
Distribution began at 7 a.m., and by noon 600 people were still in line. The truck held 660 pounds of corn meal, 550 pounds of beans and I I() large cans of powdered milk ­all there was for Chimaltenango on this day. 
Some Indians walked four miles 
from surrounding villages to get 
NEW YORK AP -In case you Anchored by Jim McKay, one of haven't noticed, the Winter Olym­the best general sportscasters in pics are at large on ABC, with five the business, ABC's 12-day, 43'12­events on tap tonight from nine to hour Olympics coverage opened II p.m. EST and from II :30 p.m. to Wednesday night with a spectacu­midnight. lar helicopter view of the Austrian 
As usual, ABC Sports is handling Alps. the proceedings in its customary eye-catching style, with 43 video The show ran two hours, about cameras, six film teams and more 90 minutes of it devoted to the 
than 300 troops on hand to cover colorful, though at times repetitive, the ice and snow epic at Innsbruck. opening ceremonies and lighting of 
Firemen injured also 
Four killed in crash 
Phillies owner Ruly Carpenter. crewmen were killed Sunday in the 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Three 
The cause of the Maryland crash crash of a four-engine charter 
was not determined, but represen­aircraft which later reignited and 
tatives of the National Transporta­injured 10 firemen, several serious­
tion Safety Board were at the ly, as they tried to rescue those 
airport investigating. One eye­persons trapped aboard the plane, 
witness reported a puff of smoke just before the jet crashed short of authorities said. 
the runway, but the plane did notThree other persons -two ste­burn on impact.
wardesses and a 16-year-old part The dead in the Los Angelestime employe -escaped serious 
injury when the DC6 aircraft, 
crash were identified as Jim Sec­owned by Mercer Aviation, plowed 
cumbe, 38, of Glendale, the pilot; into the fringes of a golf course 
Jack Finger, 55, of Carpenteria, the copilot; and Arthur Banker, theafter an engine disintegrated on 
takeoff, authorities said. 
flight engineer, whose age was not available immediately.
Meanwhile in Easton, Md., three Fort Lauderdale, Fla., residents, including the aunt of the owner of Women's caucus the Philadelphia Phillies, died in 
(continued from page 1) 
the crash of a private jet Sunday afternoon. waiting period and a mandatory jail 
A State Police spokesman ident­term for crimes involving firearms ified the Maryland crash victims as and their illegal sale. The respon­Louisa d 'A. Carpenter, 68, Nancy sibility of the gun manufacturers to 
K. Latrobe, 57, and John F. deter black market sales was Founds, 59. The spokesman said strongly emphasized. Mrs. Carpenter was the owner of The focal point of the national the $800,00 twin-engine Japanese defense issue concerned naval jet that crashed just after 12:30 appropriations. The Caucus felt 
p.m. He said Founds was the pilot that funding should go toward of the craft, which left Fort naval defense. The importance of a Lauderdale at 9 a.m. for the flight. review board for monitoring "white 
A spokesman for the family said elephant" defense projects was Mrs. Carpenter was the sister of stressed 

FEBRUARY SPECIAL EVERY MONDAY & TUESDAY 
FAMILY NIGHT BUFFET ALL YOU CARE TO EAT: PIZZA-CHICKEN-SPAGHETTI MO-JO POTATOES-SALAD 
$2.40 PLUS TAX 
AGE 10 YEARS & UNDER ONLY $.20 PER YEAR 323 E. IRELAND 291-7500 2313 EDISON RD~ 289-5555 
when the relief committee tried to food. No doubt aware that opening 
the famed Olympic torch. 
stop the distribution because a "The roads are gone, but in my nearby building was about to fall. village we only had old tortillas and ceremonies sometimes take forever "Give us food," a woman shouted. dirty water. " said Genraro Gamezto finish, ABC sporadically cut "Don't stop." as he held his crying 4-year-old
away to introduce its additional commentators and experts, among "We don't want to let happen here daughter by the hand. 
them Pierre Salinger. 
what happened in Guatemala City" "She and I are all that's left," The portly ex-White House press said a Red Cross worker in charge said Gamez. "My whole family secretary, cigar in hand, seemed as of the distribution. "People from was buried. My wofe and my 
the government kept everything other three children were crushedout of piace in the sports atmo­there." to death."
sphere as door buzzer on a tomb. 
But he explained that in comtng shows he'd give us the lowdown on life in Innsbruck and try to ''give some idea of the ambience of 
Editor-in-Chief 
Innsbruck.'' 
Former ski jumping great Art Devlin, standing near a ski jump, dwelt on the hazards of his sport and won a gold medal in the 
The Observer is accepting
dubious taste category when he allowed that "if a jumper goes too 

pplications for the post
far he'll wind up in the graveyard down there." Although ABC's taped opening­
f Editor-in-Chief. 
day show was crisply packaged, it really didn't light up until it got down to the business at hand at The Observer Editorial Board and Night about 10:30 p.m., with figure 
Editors will elect the next editor-in-chief
skating and down-hill skiing time trials. on Tuesday Feb. 17 
From that point, though, ABC's coverage augered good viewing in 
Interested students may submit resumes
future shows for even casual view­ers-I have reference to me-who 
to Terry Keeney at The Observer office 
don't normally care about skiing, skating, bobsledding and all that. top floor LaFortune Student Center ' 
However, it'll be interesting to see whether large numbers of viewers stick with ABC's coverage· which cost the network a reported Deadline Friday Feb. 13 at 5 p.m.$10 million for broadcast rights alone-until it ends on Feb. 15. 

WANTED 
Need 11M> West Virginia tickets. 1285. 
Need ride to Milwaukee area, Feb. 13. call Debbie 4-4844. 
MEMORIAL HOSPITAL PSYCH WARD VOLUNTEERS: those ~ filled out applications, first training session is TONIGHT. Transportation provided for allll'.tlo meet at Volunteer Services Office, 6:30P.M. Adrienne 7308 (8:30·5P.M.) 
Want tickets to Marquette game or any other Saturday game. Call Tom 1795. 
Need Marquette tix. 3 GA and 2 student. 1364. 
Need 4 GA West Virginia tix. Call Maggie 5408. 
Too GA Marquette tix. Call 6804. 
Need 2 Marquette student tix. AI 3388, 1715. 
Will do anything (almost) for Marquette tix, Call D:lrothy, 277-1838. 
Needed: volunteers for gym Instruction and tutoring one hour a WJek for Pirisll 
Partners. If interested, call 8042. 
Wanted : 1 NDor SMC Art student to do cartooning, muple hours per WJek, $$, call Rick at 233-1115 between 4.7 P.M. 
Applicants over 21 for part-time deridng etc. Apply 11 :00-6:00 P.M. Pllrty Shoppes of South Bend Office, 913 Clover Street. 
Need ride to Penn State, week.ene of Feb. 
13. Call Jan 6859. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found: silver necklace in L.eMans lobby. Call Camille, 4773. 
Found: rmney on carT1)US. Call Tom 288·3819 or 277-1076. 
Classified Ads 
NOTICES 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. O:lnoho. 232-0746. 
Need a tune-up? You buy the parts, I will install plugs, points, CDndenser and set timing tor $8. Call Bob 8610. 
TERM PAPER-THESIS-LETTER· A little or a lot-· We can help. A CDITl)lete typing Service; 207 Dixie w~ North; South Bend, Indiana. (277 -2922). 
Monissey LDan $20-$150, one day wait. 1 perCI!flt interest. l.aFortiXIe, M-F, 11:15­12:15. 
Ute in the Spirit seminars begin Tues., Feb. 17th. For information call Karen 1312 or Mary Anne 1338. 
IBM Selectric II typing. Manuscripts, dissertations, experienced. 289-5193. 
FOR SALE 
74 Javelin AMX21,000 miles, all options. Call Da\Ml, 272-3236. 
For sale: 8 GA Marquette tickets. Best otters, Greg, Jim 1578. 
Univox electrical guitar. Nice sound and good action. Call Bob at 1487. 
NIKKO RMAT Fn SO nm.fl.4 $275; TEAC 360-A cassette dedi wl1h Dolby $170; 234-6535. 
PERSONALS 
Got a question about aiCDhol? Or a problem? Call Peggy B!mum. 8809· AICDhol Counselor, lkliversity lnfirllW)'. 
Mis Amigos, 1hanks for ';Our patience illd love. Di~W~e Cerrbruch. 
Modi Stock Mar11et, Feb 2-Feb. 27, Old BusiMSS Bldg., 10 A.M.-JP.M., Mon thnl Ai. Win $100, SSO, $25. 5ponsonld by N.D. AIYIICl! Club. 
Unda Slaughter's birthday Is soon !next lM!ek). We need practical joke sugges.. Call12<48. 
There once was a laddie named Tom Who could not find a date for the Ptom. He seardled the whole town, But they all fumed him down, So he ended up taking his Moml PROM DISASTER 
BOXQ 
NOTRE DAME. IND. 46556 
Happy, Happy 21st. I've always liked older men, so now is ';OUr chance to "~b 
myaadlel" Love and Butterfly kisses, 
Your 91/• year.old sport. 
Dear Bunny Rabbit, Thinking of ';OUI The Red Baron. 
Martha Ann, Happy 21st birthday and happy first personal from ';0\JI' best friend, Love 
Burford. 
For a real taste treat, try TACO RICO, Salttsdale Mall. 
To the CDIXItess, Detergent is real I y better for laundry than popmm, anyway. R"omthe CDITiy, phony line-giver. 
Debita, they're on to us, kid1 (B1ough of these dasslfieds, youse guys. We know who you .-e.) 

8 
the observer 
Irish maul Wildcats; Bonnies next 
points. Flowers hit for nine and
by Bill Brink 
:lill Paterno, in one of his bestSports Editor performances recently, added eig­Notre Dame's highly-tout~d be­ht. Dave Batton had six and Raynch lived up to it's reputation Martin five. For Davidson, GerdySaturday afternoon by outscoring notched 12 second-half points to the starting lineup and leading the lead the Wildcats in scoring with Irish to a 117-74 drubbing of the 16. Powell had 14 and Hickert 12. 
Davidson Wildcats before a slightly Adrian Dantley's 15 free throw depleted crowd of 11 ,000 plus in attempts catapulted him past Aus­the Notre Dame ACC. 
tin Carr into second-place in the Chief contributors from the re­most free throws attempted cate­serve corps were guards Don gory. Jack Stephens is the leader. 
··Duck'' Williams and Bernard Dantley, however, only needs to Rencher, both of whom came in to make three more foul shots to take 
spark the Irish with career-high on most
over first place the free scoring efforts. Williams totaled 24 throws made list. 
points in 19 minutes played, while Tonight the Irish host St. Bona­Rencher notched 12 in just 17 venture in a game which was added minutes. The freshman also dis­to the ND schedule when an extra 
played his well-known talent for was allowed
regular-season gamepassing by dealing off some spec­by the NCAA after it's meeting last tacular passes that brought the August. St. Bonaventure is 11-5. 
crowd to their feet in an otherwise Jim Satalin's Bonnies boast four 
sluggish game. 
double-figure scorers, led by 6-7 Not suprisingly, it was All-Amer­senior Bob Roxyczko. Roxyczko,
ican forward Adrian Dantley that who was season
aii-ECAC last is 
topped the Irish scorers. A.D. led hitting 19.7 points per game and all players with 29 points on 8 of 16 shooting 55 per cent from the field. 
from the floor and 13 of 15 from the He is joined up front by 6-6 Gregfont line. 
Sanders, a sophomore who is"It was a great team effort "Duck" Williams heads in for two of his career-high 24 points in the lrishs' 117-74 victory over averaging 17.1 ppg. Center Essietoday, everybody got involved," Davidson Saturday. (Photo by Chris Smith) Hollis rounds out the front line with said ND Digger primarily for his uncanny passing, fine assists, the first a full-court ers, and Dantley began come
coach Phelps, to a 17.4 scoring average. Hollis
acknowledging the fine play of the the East Elmhurst, NY native pass from Flowers to Dantley and alive, hitting two free throws and a leads the Bonnies in reboundingreserves. "We wore them down enhanced his shooting reputation the next a fine return pass from basket to put the Irish up 37-25 with 8.5 per game.
and got our momentum going in by hitting six of nine shots from the A.D. to Bruce, who hit the three with 4:53 left. Williams then began The backcourt boasts sophomorethe first half. Our guards played floor. point play and made it 5-0. But to go to work, scoring on a beautiful guard Glen Hagan, who is hittingwell today. Duck and Jeff (Carpen­''The coach just told me to go to Davidson took advantage of some bank shot, then stealing the ball at a 14.9 clip. Jim Baron, a ter) got some valuable experience the hoop more, instead of passing sluggish plays by ND to fight back. and hittin_g a lav-up to make it playmaker, joins him. Satalin also and of course Bernard needed a off like I usually do,'' he explained. Freshman center Tom Dore scored ND led 57-36 at intermission. 
enjoys a fairly strong bench, having game like this to build his confi­"So I did." three buckets inside, and forward Dantley started the Irish off in retained his top three substitutes dence." Still, Rencher's performance did Pat Hickert hit three baskets in a the second half by hitting a free from last year.
"I felt I could beat the man that not omit his passing. Midway row to give the Wildcats a 14-13 throw, then remained a frequent "St. Bonaventure has a goodhad me," said Duck, who consis­through the first half he hit Bruce lead with 13:25 left in the half. visitor to the line the rest of the record, and some big wins to their
tently did, hitting 7 of 14 from the Flowers with a beautiful assist, Phelps called time out to re­game: He scored nine points in the "They beat
credit," says Phelps.
field and all ten of his free throws. then astoudned everyone in the group, and a little over a minute first seven-and-a-half minutes to DePaul by so it will be
21,''I used my quickness to get a lot of second half when he hit two quick later Rencher hit a 20 footer to lead ND to a 74-52 lead. Williams interesting to see what we can do fouls. I just try to come in and buckets in a row then dealt off an make it 17-16 and put the Irish on then took over for Dantley at the with them." 
spark the team, to keep it all amazing overhead pass to Adrian top for good. Davidson tried foul line as the Irish had Davidson Game time is 8 p.m. 
going." Dantley who hit the two points as swib:hing defenses but could not in continual foul trouble. Dore 
For Rencher, the game was the crowd stood and roared with stop Notre Dame. Toby Knight fouled out only six minutes into the particularly satisfying because of delight. came off the bench to sink a couple half, and Wildcats Eppa Rixey and Irish swimmers his shooting performance. Known The Irish took a quick lead on two hook shots and some short jump-Marvin Lively also fouled out 
before the game was over. Dantley 
host Bonnies too
hit 7 of 8 free throws in the second half, while Duck added a perfect 7 
St. Bonaventure will be in double for 7. With ND up 102-66 at the 
jeopardy Monday when they ven­
ND hockey teamsplits again 
ture west as they will meet Coach5:00 mark. Phelps began to substi­Dennis Stark's varsity swimmers as say Thomson and wing Tom Zajac, duct to ND in the first period alone tute freely.
by Paul Hess well as "Digger" Phelps' basket­
the latter coming with only 14 by the officials, who obviously were Once again, the Irish maintained 
ball squad. 
"Denver is a defensive-minded seconds left in the stanza. not about to let things get out of their strong rebounding game, club,'' Irish coach Lefty Smith Following the intermission DU hand. They couldn't prevent an finishing with a 59-47 advantage Notre Dame will be trying to cautioned before his hopeful band picked up right where it had left off Irish score, however as sopho­over Davidson. Notre Dame which repeat big swimming performances of icers headed for Colorado on as senior Bob Graiziger beat ND more center Geoff Collier tipped in leads the nation in rebounding from Bob Reilly, Ed Fitzsimons, Thursday for a crucial two game netminder John Peterson from in a Jack Brownschidle blur from the margin, has not been outrebound­Jim Severyn and Bob Wardell who 
series with the scrappy Pioneers. front of the ·net for a 3-2 lead. That pointfor a 1-0 lead after 11:01, and ed this season. Toby Knight led game strong performances last By the end of the weekend his was the way it was to end up, too, the lead stood up till the second ND with 10 caroms, while Dave Wednesday against Western Mich­players undoubtedly knew exactly though the Irish had their chances-­stanza. Then goals by Zajac and Batton pulled down eight. i_gan. what he meant, as for the second Alex Pirus hitting the post twice, blue-liner Cal Sandbeck gave DU a "It is Notre Dame's board stren­St. Bonaventure will be led by week in a row they rebounded from for example, first with just over 2-1 lead, and it began to look as if gth which killed us," said a John Closs, an all around swimmer a disappointing Friday night defeat three minutes left, then on the history was going to repeat itself dejected Brickels after the game. who can compete in almost every to win Saturday and gain a split in game's final shot with but one for the luckless Irish. But Brian "They are awesome rebounders. event, and also Fred SanFilito, a the two game series. second remaining. Walsh brought them back as he so You can't well do very much when consistent performer for the "Bon­
Both games were played in the But turnabout is fair play, and often does with a nifty goal at the four or five guys are getting five or nics." majestic DU Arena, the site of this Saturday night belonged to Notre 16:59 mark of period two. A pair of six rebounds per game." Monday's meet will begin at 4:00 year's NCAA Championships. Dame. As was the case the sizzling third period slapshots by Knight also became the fourth p.m. at the Rockne Memorial. 
Both were played before enthusias­previous evening, the officials were Paul Clarke and Brownschidle Irish player in double figures in the Admission will be free and open to tic crowds, partisan to say the more than generous with their quickly put an end to the Pioneers scoring column by adding 11 the public. least,\both. were highlighted by penalty distribution--three minors sweep aspirations, earning Notre hard-hitting and close checking, were handed out to Denver, five Dame a split for the third consecu­and both games could have gone minors and a ten minute miscon-tive weekend by a final score of 4-2. 
either way. In fact, they did. The Irish came to Denver badly needing a sweep in order to 
Nelson wins bronze medal 
enhance their chances for a fourth 
place finish and the home ice by Wick Temple skater took the lead in the first advantage in the opening series of round of men's figure skating and the WCHA playoffs. And for INNSBRUCK (AP) -On a day an East German moved toward a 
awhile Friday night, it appeared as when Russian speed skater Tatiana gold in the Nordic combined event. if they just might get it. In a first Averina became the first double In the exciting and dangerousperiod highlighted by twenty pen­gold medalist of the Winter Olym­women's downhill, Rosi Mitter­alty minutes (twelve of them ass­pic Games, the United States maier of West Germany, who never 
essed to the overly aggressive continued its strong performance had won one of these races in 100 Irish) and some clutch goaltending as daredevil skier Cindy Nelson tries, scored an exciting gold medal on both sides, neither ND nor upset· several favorites to win a victory. And behind her in third Denver was able to notch a goal. bronze medal in the women's place came Miss Nelson, a gutsy
At the 5:49 mark of the second downhill race. 20-year-old who flashed down the period, however, the Irish broke Meanwhile, the young and de­mile and two-thirds course to the ice, capitalizing on the second termined U.S. hockey team' went deliver America its sixth medal. 
of consecutiv~enalties against the down to defeat for a second1 time, The total exceeds predictions of home team. Kevin Nugent was the losing to the Czechs 5-0 after the entire medal harvest for Uncle culprit, following up his own holding their heavily-favored rivals Sam's athletes, and there are 
missed backhander for the game's close through much of the game. several other medals the Ameri­initial tally. Less than three The Soviet Union remained the cans figure to win. minutes later Nugent's linemate dominant force of the Games-tak­Miss Nelson, of Lutsen, Minn., Don Fairholm upped the margin ing seven of the 15 gold medals had fallen in five of her eight
2-0, skating around bewildered thus far-with Miss Averian winning practice runs down the twistingDenver defenseman Mike Zatine the 3,000 meters in speed skating course. This day she sta yed
and beating goalie Ernie Glanville, and Nikolai Bajukov taking the gold upright. 
and it looked as if the visitors were medal in the 15-kilometer cross­In hockey, the awesome Russian 
off and running. The undaunted country ski-race. team slammed Poland 16-1 and Pioneers came right back, though, The Soviet race with Communist­Finland defeated West Germany to knot it up before the period's end bloc partner East Germany for the 5-3 in other games in the round­on goals by star defenseman Lind-medals lead continued. A Soviet robin medal tournament. 
L_ 


