Bleier appears before enthusiastic crowd, reflects on career 
by Cathy Nolan Staff Reporter 
Speaking before an enthusiastic 
crowd at Washington Hall last Rocky Bleier, Senior Class , stressed the importance of 
~--~n~~~:·setting attainable goals" and 
unrversrty of notre dome st mary's college 
Vol. X, No. 119 Tuesday, 
Tryouts may be reheld 

New cheerleaders disputeU 
by Jim Commyn Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame cheerleaders arc currently under tire because of the proccchircs used in selecting the 1976-77 squad. Tryouts con­cltHbl last Friday night with the ~election of the 12-mcmbcr squad and one leprechaun. 
In a meeting in the Black Cultural Arts Center in LaFortune la~t night. representatives of both ~ide~ discussed the issue. The group indudcd the cheerleaders and over firty students represent­ing over 400 students who had ~igucd a petition to protest the way the final selections had been made. The controversy stems from cer­tain violations in the cheerleaders conqitution governing tryout pro­cedures. The petition also includes four counh of moral and ethical violations against the management and handling of this year's tryouts. According to the constitution, which was drawn up and approved by the 1975-76 chccrlcading squad and is the first of its kind, nine points were established to control tryouts. The points include specifi­cations concerning the number of 
. the use of a point system, idcration of injuries, the process, and signed cnts by all finalists promis­
ing to uphold the constitution. From an original field of over IOU candidates, comprised of 65 to 70 females to about 15. On Friday the women and 20 to 25 males, squad of five males and fiveeliminations procedep in the fol­females was selected to completelowing pattern. No males were the squad headed by Hank Carricoeliminated in the first cut. After and Becky Braclren, who had the first cut the number of women earlier been elc ed co-captains was lowered to approximately 30. 

and were thus <emp•ed from 
The second cut lowered the number of males to ten and the number of (Cont: •ed on page 3) 
earst's sentence delayed; more sychiatric tests to be performed 
by Linda Deutsch firearm in a felony -35 years. Associated Press Writer Carter said, however, he plans to reduce that penalty when the 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Patricia heiress comes before him for final Hea~st's judge delayed final sen-sentencing-"How much, I am not t~n~mg on her bank robbery con-now prepared to say." v1~t10n ycsterd~ty and ordered the As outlined by Carter, the opt­heiress comnuttcd to a federal ions include 25 years with the institution for extensive psychiatric maximum sentences served con­studies. currently, probation with no further 
The surprise move by U.S. jail term, or anything in between. District Court Judge Oliver .1. In explaining his choices, the Carter prolonged the suspense judge sternly indicated his own surrounding the ultimate fate of the view that Miss Hearst's conviction kidnap victim-turned-bandit. as a willing bank robber was 
·'The court finds that it requires sustained by the evidence in her mort• detailed information before it eight-week trial. His comments can make a final determination of made it appear that the 65-year-old 
sentence to be imposed," Carter jurist was not inclined toward explained. leniency at this time. 
He chose a course of action Three weeks ago, a jury found suggested, by Miss_ Hearst's chief the 22-year-old Miss Hearst guilty attorney, F. lee Batley, who urged of willingly joining Symbionese 
"further in-depth medical eva!-liberation Army members in rob­uation of this case." The exam ina-bing a Hibernia Bank branch in San lions could take 90 days, and Carter Francisco on April 15, 1974, 10 said he ~ould grant another three weeks after the tiny band of months 1f needed. terrorists had kidnaped her. 
As a required formality, the judge She was calm and unsurprised by temporarily imposed "the max-the judge's ruling. Her attorneys sentence under law" for had prepared her for the possibil­
ed bank robbery and use of a i . 

U.S. Marshal Frank X. Klein said after the court proceedings Miss Hearst would undergo the psychiatric evaluations at the Metropolitan Correctional Center in San Diego. 
He said the bank robber-heiress would be flown to Los Angeles tomorrow for a pretrial hearing on state kidnaping, robbery and as­sault charges stemming from a crime spree there a month after the Hibernia Bank holdup. 
She will be taken to the federal facility in San Diego after the Los Angeles hearing, Klein said. 
In brief comments after the hearing, Bailey mentioned in pas­sing Miss Hearst's potential "cooperation" with law enforce­ment authorities as a possible mitigating factor in her sentencing. 
The judge said he would not consider that issue now. 
The heiress' mental health has been a point of dispute since she was arrested last Sept. 18. Her attorneys contended from the be­ginning she was a disturbed young woman, plagued by "traumatic neurosis" as a. result of her violent 

'putting things in the right priori­ty ... 
Bleier, presently a fullback for the Pittsburgh Steelers, reflected on his four years at Notre Dame, his football career, and his tour of duty in Vietnam. Bleier said it was 
a "privilege to come back as a Senior Class Fellow, but I didn't know if he really deserved the recognition.'' 
Commenting on coeducation at Notre Dame, Bleier said, "Notre Dame hasn't really changed for me. The only difference I noticed is that now when I speak, I must say hello ladies and gentlemen, instead of just hello. gentlemen." 
Bleier recalled an earlier visit he made to Notre Dame in 1969. "I was on leave from the service, so I decided to come back for the NO-USC game. They asked me to speak at the pep rally," Bleier stated. "It was really an emotional thing for me to come back and speak." 
Bleier continued, ''I was asked to present the flag to the honor guard before the game. There I was on the field with Father Hesburgh, who must have just flown in, and before we got started, Hesbugh had to ask the class president who I was." 
The basic difference between college students today and his classmates, Bleier noted, is a greater interest today in world events. "I came out of the 1960's apolitical," Bleier said. "It wasn't until I went to Vietnam that I became aware of what was going on in the world." 
Bleier, a 1968 N.D. graduate, majored in Business Administra­tion. "I majored in business for two reasons: I didn't want to take a language, and, the second reason, I thought business administration sounded professional," Bleier commented jokingly. 
If he had the chance to relive his college years, Bleier said, he would like to take more reading courses. "Whatever you do. reading is important," Bleier emphasized. "My wife has a doctorate in psychology. She is a good reader and has excellent retention. I married her so that she could answer all my questions," he added jokingly. 
Bleier currently works for the National Association for Retarded Children. As a senior at Notre Dame, he became involved in mental retardation. ''I had to spend the summer here, furthering my education; so to keep busy, l started working at the Northern Indiana Children's Hospital," Bleier reminisced. 
"At the end of my senior year, I went up to a steering committee in Minnesota concerned with organiz­ing youths all over the country." Bleier continued. From this visit, Bleier developed the idea for a youth center in South Bend, spon­sored by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. The center was eventually developed and is known today as Logan Center. 
Commenting on the social life at Notre Dame. Bleier mentioned, "Frankie's, Sweeney's and St. Mary's" as his "usual hangouts." The Senior Bar was located at the time in the basement of the Flamingo. "] spent many a night at the circle, just waiting for a car to come by," Bleier joked. 
"The greatest social event for me," Bleier recalled, "occurred on football weekends. When I 
came to N.D. in 1964, Ara had just come in, too, and brought football back to Notre Dame. 
"Before every game, I used to say a prayer at the Grotto," Bleier said. "I asked for two things: either let me be All-American, or a 
team captain." Bleier was chosen 
team captain. He contributed his 
responsibilities as captain as "hav­
ing helped hirn to look at his life'· 

and "put him in the right direc­
tion.''

--·... 
Reflecting on his profes 
football career, Bleier recalled 
first day at practice. "The l"n:«·rws• 
started off by telling us we were 
good and then we spent the 
day going over the basics. At 
end of the day. I was so 
knowing that ·tomorrow I'd have 
do the same." 
In 1969 Bleier was drafted 
the armed forces and sent to 
Vietnam. "Everybody always :savs 
how busy and active duty 
Vietnam is, but our activity was 
really boring.'' Bleier commented. 
"I was able to finish the com 
works of Hemingway, Faulkner an 
Fitzgerald." 
In August 1969 Bleier was injur­
ed in combat activity. He 
three weeks in a Tokoyo 
and was shipped to Fort 
Kansas. There, he formulated 
"ceiling philosophy" (he had to lie 

on his back for weeks). 
After leaving the armed services, 

Bleier returned to pro football. He said his reason for returning was threefold: "First, I didn't want to disappoint my parents; secondly, l 'didn't want to face failure; and finally, it was the only thing I could 
reaIIy do we\1. " 
Bleier concluded his speech by 

reemphasizing the need for "con­
stantly reviewing yourself' and 
"setting goals, so that when you 
achieve them, you have somewhere 
else to go." 
At the end of the speech, Bill Macauley, Senior Fellow commit­tee chairman, presented Bleier with a Senior Class Fellow t-shirt. The day's activities, commemorat­ing Bleier's visit to Notre Dame, concluded with a reception at the Senior-Alumni Bar. 
This is the last issue of the Observer to be pub­lished before Easter. The staff wishes you a good break, but feels it only fair to warn you: 




2 the observer Tuesday, April13, 1976
i 
i 
~--News Briefs--­
~ 
f I================================International 
Italian market plunges 
I 
I 
ROME --Panic selling sent stocks and bonds plunging to record lows on Italian markets on a "Black Monday," reflecting investor 
fears that impending parliamentary elections may bring the Communists and their radical policies into the central government. 

Women vote violently 
NABLUS, Occupied Jordan --Palestinian Arab women, voting for the first time in a land where some still wear the veil, shoved and yelled their way to the polls yesterday in an election sponsored by the Israeli military occupation. The women joined men in voting for new mayors and councils in 22 West Bank towns and villages where Arabs have rioted for two months. 

Sermon ends in tragedy 
RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil --A melee touched off by a sermon on faith healing killed 21 persons, including two children, and injured 29 others during a packed inaugural service at a Protestant church in suburban Neves, police said yesterday. 
t==:::=::========::::::=:====::::::=:::::::=:=======Na tio nal 


Taxpayers angry at strikers 
Monday for dinner.

SAN FRANCISCO --Commuters battled new transit hurdles 
yesterday while angry taxpayers hurled public trash and picketed 
The Observer is published N.onday
city strikers who have halted municipal transportation for 13 days. 
through R"iday and ~kJy during the surrrrer session, except during the exam; and vacation periods. The ObserJer is published by the students Of the Univ. Of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be 

Government loses tax money 
purchased tor $18 ($10 per semester) fro-n The Observer, Box Q, Notre 
WASHINGTON --A congressional subcommittee was told 
yesterday, four days before income tax filing deadline, the 
Dame, Indiana 46556. Serond Class 
government loses hundreds of millions of dollars in taxes because 
postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
the In.ternal Revenue Service cannot verify how much money many
Amencans make. 

Robbers wound two guards 
NEW YORK --Three robbers in ski masks mortally wounded two armored-car guards in an exchange of gunfire yesterday in a Times Square theater where the Ziegfeld Follies once reigned. Their take 
was zero. 
.,___On Campus Today--.. 
12:15 pm --mass, Iafortune ballroom 
3:15pm --lecture, "free enterprise or controlled", by paul f. oreffice, president of dow chemical u.s.a. and executive member of dow chemical company, library auditorium 
8 pm --play, reader's theater, "don't close the door, i'm coming out that side," by peter korth, free refresh­ments, saint mary's clubhouse 
12 am --album hour, wsnd am 640; the doobie brothers, "takin' it in the streets" 
12:15 am --nocturne night flight, tonight's host: dave szymanski, wsnd fm 88.9 




Poisonous gas leak causes near panic 
DWIGHT, III. (AP) --Dawn was 
still an hour away yesterday when 
Dwight's 3,800 residents were 
scared out of their beds by sirens 
and police bullhorns warning of 
deadly bromine gas creeping to­
ward them like fog. 
The gas poured from the back of 
a truck and hung menacingly in the 
still morning air over Interstate 55, 
two miles north of Dwight, before 
dissipating seven hours later. 
(*The Observer1 
Night Editor: Martha Fanning , 
Ass't Night Editor: Bill Rivard 
Layout· Mike Massetti 
Copy Reader: Pat Cole 
Day Editor: Mary Mungovan 
Editorials: Jim Stevens 
Features: Tim O'Reiley 
Sports: Paul Stevenson 
. Typ1sts: Mel Celeste, Howard 
l 
·Ha.l-l,e,-,J.eri·t"lar·tan.•.•·.·:;·:::.".'around 10 a.m.\ Edwarcl Mc~w.an was nursing a can of beer. Night Controller: Dave Rust J "Desperate times call for desper­--(Continued on page 4) 
"We gave the order to evacuate about 4:30, maybe it was 4:45. It got so damn crazy for awhile I didn't even notice the time," said Marvin Ringo, Dwight Civil De­fense director and police captain. 
"By P.A. system, Civil Defense sirens, door to door and mouth to ear," the word got out, he added. 
The gravel roads leading out of the farm town 80 miles southwest of Chicago were lined with hun­dreds of cars, all with their heaters on in the 29-degree weather. 
Most persons took time to dress before fleeing, but the residents of 
the Continental Manor Nursing Home were whisked out of town in their night clothes. 
One resident of the home who identified herself only as Eva said she felt fine but it was "the first time I've ever gone out without any clothes on." 
About 400 persons crammed into the clubhouse of the Dwight Coun­try Club, a small frame building with seating for about 75. 
"Most people were just drinking coffee. We didn't really sell much liquor," said bartender Paul Golie. 
But as the all-clear sounded 
Dining halls cite 
Easter schedule 
Lunch on Thursday will be the last meal served at the North Dining Hall before Easter break. The South Dining Hall will be open over the weekend for all students remaining on campus. at the following times: 

--Thursday: dinner S-6 p.m.; 
--Friday: breakfast 9-10 a.m., lunch noon-! p.m., dinner 5-6 p.m.; 
--Saturday: breakfast 9-10 a.m., lunch noon-] p.m., dinner 5-6 p.m.; and 
--Sunday: brunch 9:30-11 a.m., dinner 2:30-5 p.m. 
All meal times on Monday April 19 will be those normally followed during the semester. The North Dining Hall will reopen at 5 p.m. 
A record number of 64 teams entered the field this year for the annual An Tostal Mud Volleyball Classic. The teams have been trimmed down to the remaining "Great Eight" this week after the first three rounds of action. 
Leading the pack in the quest for the mud are the returning champion Zoomers, who have held title to the Mud Volleyball Championship since the tournament was initiated three years ago. The Zoomers boast a lineup including: Terry Theisen, Karl Ponick, Jim Hardy and Bruce "the Goose" Gibson, the original four members. 
Among the teams threatening to zap the Zoomers are the mud slingers, captained by Jay Rafter, the Oral Six, led by Mike "the Spike" Bartosch and Motts Mudflappers, spurred by Mark "Moose" LeCiuyse. Other teams promising to add excitement to the tourney are the Dirtballs, Parufi and the Water Boners. 
The tournament will resume after Easter with the quarterfinals and will climax with the semi-finals and campionship matches in the mud pit by Stepan Center on Sunny Saturday of An Tostal, April 24. 
3 LOCATIONS TO SERVE YOU 
710 W. McKINLEY AVE.-MISHAWAKA (Town & Cour::~try Shopping Center) 
1702 S. MICHIGAN -SOUTH BEND 1807 LINCOLNWA Y EAST -SOUTH BEN 




Selection process contested 
(Continued from page 1) tryouts." associated with the cheerleader tryouts by the constitution. The second point of contention selection, suggested that two types 
For the second year the tryouts concerns the random order of the of questions be used in the future. were open to the public. Sources tryout positions, an order that was "One type should deal specifically indicate that about 200 people not followed. The constitution with the general activity of cheer-watched the various eliminations. states that before each cut, candi-leading," she stated. "The other 
The constitutional violations cit-dates will draw numbers for tryout should deal with the general ability cd in the petition brought against order. Bracken explained the way of people to get along with others in the selection procedure employed ' the procedure was handled. "We all senses." by Carrico and Bracken include the assigned numbers to all the candi-Carrico stated that over half of following: first, the judges were 'dates' names alphabetically and the candidates were asked to rate not in the 2:3 ratio that the then drew numbers randomly to their individual potential as a constitution specifics. The petition establish order," she stated Sun-cheerleader. In addition they were said that this ratio was not present day afternoon. questioned about possible prob-on Monday and Wednesday nights The third constitutional violation lems concerning partners if they when the first and second cuts were has to do with the point system made the squad. made. used in this year's tryouts. While The last citation in the petition 
The constitution specifically calls the constitution states that a 0-10 states that judges were not located for a ratio of two "outside" judges point range will be carried out in an isolated area. Students (those who arc not presently Notre through all session!., Bracken ad-criticized Reid on the charge that Dame cheerleaders) for every three mitted that certain events end up his wife was probably well aware of outgoing cheerleaders. Outgoing being weighed more critically and every vote he cast. seniors of this year's squad include heavily than the others. "A guy's The petition calls for tryouts to captains Mary Ann Grabavoy and ability to dance cannot be given the be reheld. The feasibility of George McLaughlin. Amy MeDon-same weight as a girl's ability to rescheduling them was discussed ald. Sally Naxera and this year's dance,·· Bracken noted. "Points at length. Linda Slaughter, who leprechaun. Pat Murphy. Captains were varied in that respect. The had tried out in previous years, for the 147o-77 unit Bracken and interviews with each candidate said, "Tryouts arc hell. The people Carrico were also included among were considered very important as involved drop everything they are thl· judging squad members, which well." doing. It is a mental. physical and 
The South Bend community school corporation's Fife and Drum
i~ provided for by the constitution. The petition also criticizes the emotional drain on everyone." .Judges who were not squad manner in which the votes were Slaughter noted that the proximity C~r~s performe~ military _music and drills at the St. Mary's W1lltamsburg Drnners thrs weekend. The dinners which
members included l{ay Sepcta. tabulated. The constitution calls to finals would create tremendous fare, in
Notre Dame wrestling coach. Bar-for the outgoing captains to be the hassles for those who would have to included colonial were planned celebration' of the bara Durkin, a South Bend dance ofticial tabulators. The protesting go through the grueling process for 
nation's bicentennial. Guests were invited to dress in colonial fashion.
in~tructress. Shelley Mueller. a students cited Reid's presence in a second time. Others questioned Sl'nior and former cheerleader not the room as a violation. Reid the competence of those selected (Photo by Mary Egan) associated with the J975-7o squad. clarified his position there, saying already. and argued that those who and .John Reid. assistant of Student that he acted only as a recording have made it once should be skilled ------------, _---­Activities and advisor to the cheer-secretary for Grabavoy and Me-enough to do it a second time. Y'RMANDO IS NOW LOCATED NEAR CAMPUSf leaders thi~ year. Laughlin. who counted the ballots. Further problems arose when 
Hracken pointed out that the Not only was the validity of the discussion focussed on how much ~TO GIVE YOU THE CUl OR STYLE YOU WAN"Jt members outside the squad who cheerleaders constitution challeng-of the tryout week would have to be • _a J ' --. b & 11 '-, L' '-~1 ' a 
0

judged were not the original choic-cd. but the qualifications of some of rchcld. Some suggested that the Ic..-/'Zflhlfl j_ !..:la 'Z .::::r _ .._:_/ d i'Z ·--~-Jt_ij £ ~) h-'(1 :' cs by the members of the selection the judges were questioned as well. final cuts just be re-run. Others 0 pEN c; 1;., 0 A y 5 A WEEK committee. "Originally we had One judge was criticized for not insisted that the entire process be
' h' Jf f h · Ml' THRU FRIDAY B TO 5 30 S"TUilDAY u TO 4
hoped that Pauline Hess. a cxemptmg tmse rom t e votmg done over. Bergin favored redoing 
~:;'~~~~~~~:~,~~~!~!~~;~~~~~~1 ~~d~ ~~~{~:~gt~~~~~~n:i~at~~~~r~~~dca:;i~ ~~:rt?~i~~et~~~d~~.ts~cr;;:po~nc~~·: t PERSONALIZED SERVICE t 
judge." Bracken said. "We were date in question made the squad. end to get it back to the other," he a ARMAN 0 Q FEMIA 14 3.7 N. 1RON woo o oR a also informed that her assistant in Bernadette Merluzzi, a partici-said. ' PH or. E 2 7 7 ·06' 5 souTH BEN o 1No 1AN A ' Chicago had consented to be a pant in last night's meeting and not Bracken agreed with those stu-fFOR APPOINTMENT A judge also." Both Hess and her otherwise associated with the dents who thought that re-schedul-. ' assistant were forced to cancel cheerleader selection. did not ing tryouts prior to the end of the -----------------__,. about two weeks ago, according to question the integrity of the judge, semester would be nearly impossi-•••••••••••••••••••• Hracken and Carrico. but stated that a certain amount of ble. She expressed her own • • 
Another scheduled judge was justice must be built into the opinion by suggesting that they be • 

SMC JUNIORS 
Dan Poe. a gymnastic instructor system to make it the most equal as held in the early fall and that a • and coach at .John /\dams High possible right from the start, committee be set up now to • 
A • 
School in South Bend. "Poe eliminating all possibility of an organize the specifics of them. 

ND FRIENDS 
backl·d out." according to Carrico, individual's bias entering into the Bonita Bradshaw, who taped the • • "after he learned that five of his process in the first place. entire meeting, stated, "I would be • • sttHenI ts hatI macIc 1't to the Another point of dissension is (continued on page 10) CQM£ SKATE AT THE ACC 
national championships last Satur-that tabulation of votes was not • • day." Poe decided to accompany held in the open. Votes were • TUESD' A
hi~ team members to the finals and counted in a separate area away WSND-AM NEEDS 1'"'1 Y APRIL 13 • n 1nccled because he could not be from the contestants by Grabavoy PROGRAMME:.RS • • JHL'~ent for the entire duration of and McLaughlin. Reid recorded If you have a good • 
i

the Notre Dame tryouts. Carrico them. All ballots were signed by knowledgeof a variety explained. each judge. of music---• FOR $.7 5 YOU GET: 
Black students at the open In order to eliminate the possible Call us now a.t 6400 • meeting Monday night questioned bias factor in any of the selections, a..l both Reid and the cheerleaders one student suggested the procc-.,.-__J,,~~ • • 
present why no black judge was durc used by the Olympic commit-~~ GOL·F CENtiR ~~ • SKATING 9:15-10:15 • 
part of the selection panel. tees in which the highest and "H tl ·t1 d t ·d lowest votes arc eliminated. The 0. 
ones y. may soun s upl ' topic was discussed for several Ill'! 



61. ii • 
but we never really thought about ~ • it,·' Bracken stated. minutes but no consensus could be -& Most at the meetmg. agreed that reached. .:. , • • 
professionals should have been Another major point on the • brought in to make the decision. petition stems from the fact that ~ The discussion then turned to the the same questions were not used "NIGHT LIGHTED" ~ • A FREE BEER OR MIXED • 
linancial feasibility of extending in the interviews of all the candi-0,,.,,;8 H~~~~~: PAR 3 G?i'H~~u_:;lalu,..iili • DRINK AT THE LIBRARY • 
such invitations, considering the dates. Bracken, Carrico and Reid Ill'! 
10 00
cheerleaders' minimal budget allo-noted that this was not possible in Open Dawn Til ' PM ~ • F Q • cation from the University. . all cases because some of the LOCATED us 33 AT IRONWOOD ~ • R M 10:30-12:30 • 
Frank White. a member of this candidates had been on the squad 28S Ill'.: year's squad, stated. "The consti-previously and others had never Call -0033 ill • SPONSORED BY • tution never specifically states that tried out before. tf N<> Ana Call 282-2366 Ill'.: • SMC JUNIOR ( the ratio of judges has to be two to Bernadette Merluzzi, a partici-/ 17U LINCOLN WAY EAST so. BEND LASS OFFICERS,_,•
, _______________________________________ 
three on all three nights of the pant in the meeting not otherwise 1 aw . ··············~· 
t ~t LIBu"h 'I
ruEs. APRIL 13 wED. APRIL 14 
I JOIN US AS WE CELEBRATE ~\\ ~~r LIVE ENTERTAINMENT I ···~ bL.... "WORKINGMAN'S TALISMAN" 1 
I ALL NIGHT WITH $.50 DRINKS. ~ THIS IS YOUR LAST CHANCE TO IIPLUS JOIN us FOR OUR TRIBUTE HAVE A HOE-DOWN BEFORE BREAK. IITO ALL THE YOUNG JUNIOR THE LIBRARY WANTS TO WISH I I LASSIES FROM ST. MARY'S AS EVERYONE A HAPPY EASTER & WE WILL I 
REMAIN OPEN OVER BREAK II\WE DEDICATE THIS NIGHT TO THEM. FOR EVERYONE WHO IS STAYING.J 
.
~------------------------------------------·' 



Two dollar bill available after ten year absence 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The $2 bill will come to you today, via your bank, via the Federal Reserve Board, via the Bureau of Engraving and Printing and via the Treasury Department. 
Success is Hoped 
One of the bills came to Presi­dent Ford yesterday. The Presi­dent received it from Treasury Secretary William E. Simon. Ford gave Simon two $1 bills in return and said he hopes the two will be a "popular item." 
The Treasury decided to reissue the bill after a 10-year lapse, the bureau did the printing, the Feder­al Reserve Board ordered and distributed it. 
And today, you can get it at your bank. 
There were hundreds of other steps in-between, including the dozens of different inspections to make certain the bills were being properly printed. 
About 225 million of the bills have been printed during the past five months to be ready for distribution today, April 13, which is the birthdate of Thomas Jeffer­son.. whose portrait will be on the bill. 
Another 175 million will be printed later to bring the total production of the bill for 1976 to 400 million. The production in subsequent years depends on how· well the bill is received by the public. 
The government hopes to begin cutting down on production and distribution of one-dollar bills, at least half of which are expected to be replaced by twos. Officials say the reduction in printing and handling costs could save the government $4 million to $7 million a year and the Federal Reserve System as much as $27 million over five years. 
Distribution Process Critical The role of the nation's banks in the distribution process will be critical to whether the $2 bill will be successful. or whether it will fall victim to the past disinterest that caused the government to discon­tinue it in 1966. Thomas Brooks, an assistant vice-president at Riggs National Bank, Washington's largest, said it has ordered a block of 4,000 twos for each of its 21 branches in the city. The bank's tellers have been instructed to give them out in c:hange as people cash checks, said Brooks, who added he thinks they "will go over" with the public if they are made available. In Washington, banks deal dir-

Bromine gas 'fog' escapes truck 
(Continued from page 2) 
ate measures,'' he said. 
The gas was finally dissipated when a team of chemical specialists mqved the truck to an isolated area and hosed it down with water. 

The truck, owned by Continental Freightways, was hauling 200 cas­es of bromine for the Michigan Chemical Co. The truck was also carrying "a couple hundred cans of freon ... a pool table and all kinds of men's and women's clothes," said driver Edward Merriman, 53, of Joliet. 
The driver said he was stopped by a Dwight policeman about 2:15 a.m. 
"He said he saw smoke coming out the back,'' Merriman recalled. "Well, we checked, didn't see a flat or anything and we stood off and talked a big and then the stuff reallly started spewing out." Several hours later. after the town had been evacuated, about 300 cases of aerosol deaodorant in the trailer exploded and split the truck in half, officers said. 
State officials said bromine is usually a deep red, corrosive liquid that gives off a vapor that can irritate skin, eyes and nostrils. It can be fatal if inhalted over a prolonged period of time, they said. 
l ' r 
4 • .. • • • • 
.........

r ~ 
,,_ 
ectly with the U.S. Treasury. But roller of the currency. in the rest of the country, they The comptroller, who is in the place their orders for currency with Treasury Department, passes the one of the 12 district Federal order to the Bureau of Engraving Reserve banks. and Printing, a Treasury agency, 
Once the district banks have which does the printing and prod­determined the currency needs of uction. banks in their areas, they forward The Treasury Department char­
their order to the Federal Reserve ges the Federal Reserve System for Board in Washington, which in the cost of producing the bills, turn sends the order to the compt-currently about $15 per thousand, 
• SHOP
: 
TOWN& COUNTRY 


MALL 
tN'Ew-Lo&iidN..t 
:MILANO'S l t Have a t t Happy t t Easter t t Break' t
! For those st~ying ! ' here remember -' ! PIZZA DELIVERY ft ' AVAILABLE TO!ND-SMC CAMPUS I 
' MILANO'S
! 815 W. McKINLEY ! 
' MISHAWAKA ' 
f(COLLEGE SQUARE): 



L~~N!~~1_!5!.J
• --· 
irrespective of the denomination. 
When the bills are ready, the Federal Reserve Board takes charge of picking up the bills, in blocks of 4,000 each, and transport­ing them to the district bank then distributes the money as it is actually needed by commercial banks. Large banks may have money delivered weekly from the district bank stockpiles. 
James A. Conlon, the director of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, takes credit for having made the initial recommendation in 1970 to bring back the two. He said the goal is to have the two account for 17 percent of all currency in circulation, reducing at the same time the percentage of ones in circulation from 60 to about 35 percent. 


Low -Low Prices on Macrame Hangers and Pots!!! 
Many unusual items.


J;~~&~~-t
~~~..1.:·. yj
;L ..·, ~-. ~\_\_• 
town & country ~,;'!\J'\1 ! -*:1 2340 miracle lar.e 
shoppong center ~<t-L m1shawaka, indiana 46544
.. 
219/256-0111 


•.··CLOCK SALE!!! r·.. 
•
• 
••••••~Q?{c. ~~f•~n. =I! .c~o~~: ••••

•• Great Gi[t Ideal!!! •• • 


Come You Fightin' Irish 
TO TOWN &COUNTRY ·FOR YOUR FAVORITE 




WINES-LIQUORS 
Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM 
LIQUOR • WINE 10% DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC 1.0. BEER · BEST PRICE IN TOWN VOLUME DISCOUNT FREE DELIVERY 
FREE DELIVERY 

BEFORE YOU DROP IN ON YOUR FRIENDS THIS BREAK, 
DROP IN ON US. 
............................. ~·-·.-.. ~.-... -.. -..-.--.-.. -.--..-..-..---.. ----.--­
• 
WATCH REPAIR 

• 
CLOCK REPAIR 

• 
JEWELRY REPAIR 


• 
ENGRAVING 

• 
ANTIQUE WATCH 


& CLOCK REPAIR 

•TIMEX 
REPAIR 



MARK D. HIRTH 


·!!J.~ 
Licensed Watchmaker 
~ 

HIRTH'S JEWELERS 
913 W. McKinley Hwy. Coli ege Square Mishawaka, Indiana 
(21 9) 255-381 7 (21 9) 287-9893 Business 
Home 


5 

a day in the life of the senior fellolf5.~ , , w~ky ble1er 
rr=========================================== --dipaoo~~--==========================================~ 
6:00-7:15 p_m 8:00-10:00 p.m. 
10:30 p.m. 
12:15 p.m. 5:00p.m. 6:00 p.m.-6:00a.m. 
8:00p.m. 
11:00 p.m. 
3:00p.m. 3:15p.m. 3:15p.m. 
11:00 
p.m. 

11:00 
p.m. 

11:00 
p.m. 

11:00 
p.m. 


9:30a.m. 
10:45 a.m. 11 :00 a.in 11 :00 a.m. 
11:00 a.m. 
12:15 p.m. 
4:30p.m 
II· 

•~------------Ll_' 


HOLY WEEK SERVICES 
Wednesday of Holy Week 
Special Holy Week Confessions 
~nitential Service Homilist: Rev. Matthew M. Miceli, C. S.C. (FolloiJ'ved by Mass) 

Holy Thursday 
Mass Celebrant: Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. Mass Celebrant: Rev. William M. Le~rs, C. S.C. Homilist: Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C. Traditionally a watdl is kept at The Altar of repose after the evening Mass of the Lord's Supper. The dlurdl will be kept open all night. Mass Celebrant: Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
Mass Celebrant: Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. 

Good Friday 
Celebration of the Lord's Passion Celebrant: Rev. James T. Surtdlaell, C.S.C. Good Friday Servic,;e Good Friday Service Celebrant: Rev. William Toohey, C. S.C. Stations of the Cross 

Holy Saturday 
Easter Vigil Celebrant: Rev. Eugene F. Gorski, C.S.C. Easter Vigil Celebrant: Rev. Matthew M. Miceli, C.S.c .... Easter Vigil Celebrant: Rev. James T. Burtdlaell, C.S.C. 

Easter Sunday 
Mass Celebrant: Rev. Joseph Carey, C.S.C. Mass Celebrant: Rev. John C. Gerber, C.S.C. Mass Celebrant: Rev. Oliver Williams, C.S.C. Mass C~~ebrant: Rev. Matthew M. Miceli, C.S.C. 
Children's\Mass Celebrant: Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. Mass Cele~rant: Rev. William Toohey, C. S.C. Easter DC{y Vespers Celebrante: Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C 
' 



LL-J--------~----------------------~ 
Saaed Heart. Churdl t.avanauyl,r...hapel 
LaFortune Ballroom 
Saaed Heart Churdl 
Sacred Heart Churdl 
Keenan-Stanford Chapel Dillon Chapel 
Saaed Heart Churdl Keenan-Stanford Chapel Walsh Chapel Cavanaugh Chapel 
Saaed Heart Churdl 
Cavanaugh Chapel 
Di lion Chapel 
Saaed Heart Churdl Saaed Heart Churdl Dillon Chapel Cavanaugh Chapel Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Sacred Heart Churdl 
Saaed Heart Churdl 
--_____,.,....-~------­

*~~d.Q~,~~rver
Founded November 3. 1966 The Observer~~ publ"h"d by studt-nts ot the Un1vers1ty of Notr<> Danw and EDITORIAL BOARO ~t .'1.1dr\ , Collt>gt' It dot's not necessanh reflect the polic1e' ot e1tht>r " lll,tltUtl<lll Tht> nPW\ ,., rPportPd a> acturatPIV and obwct1v!-'ly a> poss1biP Thomd' 0 Nt-11 I chtor~~rl~ t>t 1 dttondl' rPpre.,Pnt the op1mon ot a matontv ot thP F:d1tonal Board D.u1 ~.tn< hl't Managms Ed1tor ( ~omnH•nt.Jrlt'' ME' tht' VIP\\S of tnd1v1dual Pdltor., Opm1on>. cartoons and Crt•gg B,tng' I "'~li't1vP E:d1tor n·gul<~r tnlumn, pxprPss thP VIE'WS ot the1r autho" Column >pact' ,., \<~llurhl" I ~,-:-,ut1ve Fd1tor ,1,.td.tblt• to all nwmbt'r> ot the tommunlt\. and lettPr> art' PncouragPd to f .tt Hdnllln Ad1tonal I d1tor pr<lllH>tt· th<> trt't' exprPSSIOn ot varvmg op1n1on., on campu., Bob ,'V\.tdt•r • f "'<U!IV<' New> fcUtor .'1.\,lUrt•t•n I 1, nr, C,m\f!"U' f d1tor...._ .'1.\,,rt• Hog.Jrl'~ St 'Mdry·, f d1tor 1 d•ton.tl' 2Hl~171S Don ~'' 111 ,..r Gl'pv Edrtor
Bu,lnt'" 2H 1~7471 

l 1111 0 ~eile\ I • ·•t<'rt'' f dttor I rt•d Ht•rb't Sport., E dttor Tom ,'.1\odgltn Ad\t>rtl'tng Man.tgt·r Tom \\'ht·ldn MM\ I g<~n Contnbuttng f dttor 
Tuesday, April 13, 1976 


DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
The Notre Dame Three 
Dean Roemer's decision to suspend three students arrested for selling drugs . has drawn strong protest from hundreds of other students who point out that suspen­sion before a trial contradicts justice. It does that, but the contradictions go much deeper. In fact Roemer's whole reaction to the matter seems to be a futile attempt to satisfy a series of mutually contradictory desires. 
Clearly if he has no new evidence that proves beyond a reasonable doubt that the "Notre Dame Three" are guilty as charged then he is grossly violating the most elementary standards of justice. 

------~--&ren.if Roemer has somehow discovered evidence which proves guilt evidence which he has not chosen to make public, he has still entangled himself in contradictions. lf he does have solid proof, he apparently wants to use it in the University proceedings but does not want to give it to the court. But by suspending the Three he implies that he may have evidence. This could prejudice the trial (though not as much as an expulsion would). It might even prompt the prosecutor to put him on the stand and demand that he tell the court what he knows. This is unlikely, but the Dean has really put himself out on a limb if the r.rurt finds the three innocent. The Tinversity might then facPAkwsuit for penalizing the people .vrio are legally innocent 
.v hether he has evidence or not, he has str~tched 1 the rules far beyond the breking pomt. Drug-selling is a violation or Rule 7 but apparently Roemer either has no solid evidence of such violations or he does not want to use it yet. Instead of starting regular disciplinary procedures he has tried to use Disciplinary Procedure 3D. Three-D gives him the power to temporarily suspend students if they are a threat to ~he future safety of persons or property, or if they have done something in the past 


which is such a "serious obstruction of University life'' that they cannot be allowed to stay until the regular proce­dures are completed. 
Obviously 3D does not apply to the case of the Notre Dame Three. Even if they have sold drugs they are very unlikely to do so again while charges are pending. Three instances of selling small amounts of drugs~were hardly "serious obstructions" to the life of the University. 
Roemer's problem seems to lie in the contradictory desire to follow the written rules but at the same time to do whatever he thinks is best. The second wish is based on a paternalistic attitude that fundamen­tally contradicts the idea of having writte9-· rules at all. -· 
The Dean may have the power to 'lliake new rules, at least if he is backed oy the broad prerogative powers of the U11iversity President. Fr. Hesburgh, as the.!~al court. of appeals, has the power t.{' mterpret the rules any way he likes-11o matter how strained others may thi.Ill that interpreta­tion. But if they use t.tese powers they are syaing that thel'f' are no rules for the Administration. 
They vuuld be saying no more than the trnt.t. Here we hit the basic question underlying most of the disputes between the students and the Administration: should we at Notre Dame live under a government of laws or of the unlimited wills of a few men? More directly, why should a student be bound by rules which do not bind the men who made them? 
This may all be stated grandiosely. Granted, administrators usually behave themselves even when not limited by written rules. But there are exceptions, and the case of the Notre Dame Three is one of them. Dean Roemer may well be in a very complex logical, legal and ethical situation. However, he is not going to get out by entangling himself in contradic­tions. 
seriousIy foIks!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
The Dirty Dozen 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~art buchwald 
WASHINGTON--House Minority Leader John J. Rhodes of Arizona is fuming mad because he was listed by a group called "Environmental Action" as one of the "Dirty Dozen" congressmen who have consistently voted against environmental bills. He also got a very low rating by the "National Council of Senior Citizens." Mr. Rhodes was so angered he released a letter signed by 77 congresmen (mostly Republicans) calling on the Fair Campaign Practices Committee to "expose" what they called "the most flagrantly unfair and perverse of all campaign practices ... the publication of ratings of public interest groups based upon votes of narrowly selected bills ... " 
Mr. Rhodes is, of course. right. There should be an investigation of any organization that monitors the voting record of congressmen. A congressmen's vote is a private matter between him and his wife, and should not be revealed by any public interest group whose sole purpose is to defeat him in an upcoming election. 
It is sad on the 200th anniversary of our country that private citizens feel they should hold th eir legislators accountable for the way they vote in Congress. 
Our forefathers, who drafted the Constitution, never intended that organizations in this country would make up lists of congressmen who had opposed legislation affecting Americans. 
Anyone who lives in Washington is aware that Congress knows what is good for the people and if they vote against environmental issues or senior citizens, they are doing it only because it is for the best interests of the country. You don't have to take my word for it--ask any congressman or senator and he will tell you the same thing. 
Mr. Rhodes said the House Republican Research Committee is reviewing rating practices of special interest groups and may recommend legislation to restrict them. 
This is the best way to deal with the matter. If Congress cares about its integrity, it must pass a law to prevent organizations in this country from publicizing the voting records of its representa­tives. 
I think the bill should impose stiff criminal penalties, as well as large fines, against any group of citizens who disclose, verbally or in print, the vote of any elected official of the legislative branch of government. 
They should be held in contempt of Congress and lose all voting privileges for five years. 
Not only should the people who revealed the vote be punished, but those who print it in pamphlets, newspapers or magazines must suffer the grave consequences of violating "congressional security.'' 
I suggest that anyone accepting a list of the "Dirty Dozen" or a similar list be sentenced to read the Congressional Record from the first page to the last for one year. 
IfCongress does not want to pass a special bill they could include the penalties in the S-1 Bill, which is now being debated in Con~ress. S-1 is a 750-page revision of the Criminal Code, which includes harsh penalties for anyone in the government releasing confidential and top secret papers to an unauthorized source. 
These measures may sound tough, but there is a serious credibility gap in the country now and people are very suspicious of their politicians. One of the reasons for this is that we are being told how l.bey vote. 
Any fair person can understand House Minority Leader Rhodes' indignation that his vote, which is the most personal thing a congre,ssman has, would be exposed by environmentalists and senirjr citizens who are working for his defeat in the upcoming elections. 
I ;.usually don't like to take sides, but I hate to see anyone, Re~blican or Democrat, put on a list called the "Dirty Dozen.", It make\, you lose faith in the First Amendment and the whole principle)of "the pu~iic's right to know." . 
~L__ _____l._\----~ 
~ 
"Happy Easter!" 

'----------------------....;-......~iiiii!:>.J 

P.O. Box Q 
Dear Editor: In this election year it seems to us that there are two important characteristics that the Notre Dame Student Body should be looking for in a candidate. First, in this period of low confidence in our public officials, we must have a candidate of integrity. Secondly, we must have a candidate who listens to and respects the view­point of the student. Phil~ Hayes, Congressman from Evansville, is such a candidate. In his race for the Democratic nomina­tion for U.S. Senator on the Indiana Primary Ballot, Phil Hayes has attacked "legislating for special interests." Clearly this is an election that should draw our attention. Phil Hayes will be at Notre Dame on Wednesday, April 14 at 7:30 p.m. in the library auditorium to speak out on the issues and to answer your questions. Vance Hartke was invited, but he will not be there. We urge you to please attend. 
Cress Hizer 
Tom Black 

Phil Hayes for Senate Committee 
·• Tuesday, April13, 1976 the observer 
----~~~--~------------~~=-~~~~~~-----­
letters to a lonely God 
when the band pla~ed, ·nearer, m~ god, to thee' 
Reverend Robert Griffin 


Otto, the father of the bride at Satur­day's wedding, was simply marvellous as the host at the marriage feast. Otto was German-born, and Lutheran Protestant to the core, and as crisply urbane and efficient as though he were Clifton Webb playing a World War II General, without sounding a bit like Henry Kissinger. The ceremony itself had been a simple ex­change of vows in a Lutheran church following the ·Lutheran liturgy, with me representing the groom's faith and witnes­sing for the Pope. All of us were very sincerely on our hest ecumenical behavior, and there were t•ourtesies extended me that nearly cancelled the effects of the Reformation. 
At thl' wedding supper, I sat next to the bride's parents. "I understand." I said, "that the band that will play for the dancing, specializes in polkas." 
"The hand specializes in every kind of music." Otto said, in the tone of one who cares enough to rent the very best. "Every kind of music at all." 
"I bet they don't specialize in 'Nearer. My God, To Thee,"' I said. in an attempt at humorous one-upmanship. 
"Well. we'll see," said Otto. At that point the wedding cake was served. Wedding cake is, I think, the strongest argument in favor of marriage, making it seem regrettable to have been merely ordained, in ceremonies that cakes do not celebrate. No decent man thinks about polka hands when wedding cake is being served. 
The band, when it arivcd, did play polkas. It also played waltzes, mazurkas, and foxtrots. It wasn't until I was leaving that the band showed its true versatility. As I was saying goodbye. Otto said: "The hand is now going to play your song." I didn't even remember that I had a song. Suddenly. the band leader announced that in answer to a special request of Father Griffin's, the next number would be a 
hymn. The hymn they played, of course, 
was "Nearer, My God, To Thee." 
"Nearer, My God, To Thee" was the hymn that the ship's orchestra played as the Titanic went down. At Protestant funerals, it is the dirge that is sometimes sung when the body is lowered into the earth, and everlasting farewells are said. Now, extraordinarily. as the result of a witty remark, this .sad, mournful anthem had become my song, my farewell to the marriage feast. Jesus, at Cana, is remembered for His gift of the bubbling grape. Griffin will be remembered in Michigan for "Nearer. My God. To Thee," 
I would rather be known for the wine than for the music. 
I imagine priests have left Lutheran towns with more sullied reputations. I suppose on the Saturday before Palm Sunday, "Barnacle Bill" would be a more inappropriate song for a Christian to be ' identified with than a t.YJmn that goes: "Nearer, my God, to Thee,/ Nearer to Thee!/ E'en though it be a cross/ That raiseth me;/ Still all my song shall be,/ Nearer, My God, to Thee!/ Nearer, my God, to Thee,/ Nearer to Thee!" It is always the vocation of Christians to sing of the cross that raises man to God; yet it seems tacky and unprofessional for a priest to do it when. so to speak, he is off-duty and out of uniform. 
Though like the wanderer, The sun gone down, Darkness be over me, My rest a stone, Yet in my dreams I'd be Nearer, my God, to Thee! Nearer. my God, to Thee, Nearer to Thee! 
By the time we left that reception on Saturday, the sun had long gone down; it was also raining. The roads in Michigan are very dark, and there were times in that six hour trip home when, in our weariness, we wouldhave settledfor a stone as a place where we could rest our heads. Yet I can't say that all our song was "Nearer, my God, to Thee." There were a few snatches of show tunes from 'My Fair Lady; everything else was conversation. Yet, for a Christian, every journey homeward is seen as a metaphor for the travelling we do toward the refreshment of sleep and the awaken­ing that finds us in our Father's house. 
As our hours of travel moved past the midnight hour towards the dawn of Palm Sunday, I thought of the traditional images that see the events of Calvary as a marriage between earth and heaven. The mystical marriage was foreshadowed in the exchange of vows at Cana, I thought, though it was only later that the friends of Jesus would recognize the elements of a Eucharist in the water turned to wine and in the loaves and fishes of a supper in the wilderness. Yet all His miracles, it seems pointed toward the covenants of redemp­tion and toward the Cross. 
I must admit that I have the instincts of a worldling. A libertine was lost to the Smart Set, I think. when the chrism was smeared upon fingertips prepared for rituals, as chalk is rubbed onto cue tips to prepare them for games of pool. I could have swung a shoe with the best of them, I say to myself, thinking of those who come to dance at weddings rather than to bless them. In place of the swinging shoe, there are the ·sobering verses that numbered me with the Hebrew children: 
Then with my waking thoughts/ Bright with thy praise,/ Out of my stony griefs/ Bethel I'll raise; So by my woes to be/ Nearer, my God, to Thee! Nearer, my God, to Thee, Nearer to Thee! 

the watchful villages of wales 
Six seasick sailors, as the story is told, awoke the sleeping town. clamoured, raged and sang. searching for the festive virgins that no longer be. In a tavern they drowned in drink, and belched whaling stories. tales of mermaids, sirens and brave men. Then they ld't. In defiance they challenged the sea, that laughed and with the winds tossed their vessel about. devouring the sea men. 
And now in the harbor. a lighthouse warns ships of the perilous rocks summon­ing the voyage's end for· sailors astray. Like a mechanical god it sits and casts ljght against the black and grey landscape. But it has been years since anyone has seen a ship wrecked or heard stories of a voyage lost. 
Down the main road which parallels the South Wales coast, three fishermen throw darts in a puh while old men reminisce, standing near the bar stools. A couple play billiards, another sit quietly in the corner. From the juke box comes "A Salty Dog" followed by "Hurricane." 
By eleven the town retreated into its coral bed. The moon, now resting behind a cloud, will awake at intermittent intervals· 
to keep a watchful eye  on· the town,  the  
garbour and the sea.  
Quite early the  next  morning the first  

rays of light tickle the stone feet of the houses and inns. Sea gulls greet the morn 
• 

with a peculiar, eerie language which will persist the day long. In the early morning fog a lone figure strolls along the shore. Dylan Thomas, playing himself, speaks to a vacant audience: "The town was not yet awake, and I walked through the streets like a stranger come out of the sea." 
The sea is calm after several days of disturbance. The sun is fresh and bright after a leave of absence. All along the shoreline sailboats lay in a flat bed of sand. 
Behind simple facades, houses protect their caretakers from the cold winter wind, the waters and the evils that lurk within. 
leo hansen 
Not least of which be the twentieth century whose inhuman and indecent reputation has made him an unwanted stranger by those who can still remember another time. 
His satanic majesties' feet have already forced their way inside the threshold of the town's sobriety. 
Once the cradle of humanity, the city now symbolizes the sepulchre of man. ln the villages and towns of South Wales, urbanization is watched with a discernful eye. Happy be the man who can reap the benefits of industrialism without serving the consequences. 
The Welsh village is no slave to commercialism. Its structure has not diverged far from its foundation; nature still lies close by. Technology here is used in a cooperative effort with the environ­ment, not in conquest as is done in the city. 
The sounds of the city are quite noticeably, pleasantly absent. The physi­cal and spiritual decay are also not to be found. The bright colours of the buildings have not yet turned to grey; pornography graffiti and bills are unseen. A nocturnal walk near the water's edge is peaceful not threatening. Behind the back doors of the village there is the virgin landscape. On the hill the ruins of a medieval castle still nest the buildings below. 
In days past the enemy was human: certain and seen. Now unseen, uncertain the towers peer the countryside in terrify­ing anticipation of the suburban snake. 
The best lesson of the Michigan wedding did not come from the homilies and liturgics of the Lutheran pastor and the Catholic priest, but from Otto, that faithful Christian. He could sec no reason why a priest would be ashamed to be identified with a grand, old hymn. It was I, not he, who identified that hymn with burying bodies and icebergs and sinking sh ips. He gave it to me as a special moment I could identify with, and be identified by, as when the Marine Corps plays "Hail to the Chief" for the President. It was an inter-faith courtesy, and a gesture of hospitality that recognized we were bro­thers in the Cross. For all the guests. there was music: polkas, mazurkas. foxtrots; for the bride and groom. there were waltzes; for the visiting priest, there was a hymn. There was nothing imappropriate in having a hymn; it merely recognized that through the priest, Christ was a guest as at the wedding in Cana. 
In ancient Jerusalem, the Apostles fled before the Cross; they were fearful and ashamed to be recognized as disciples. Some of us still get embarrassed at discipleship; and to tell the truth, I am one of the most embarrassed when it is a case of being credited with "Nearer, My God, To Thee" as I am knocking back the wedding cake. Maybe Otto preferred other tunes too, but it had seemed to him to be my request, and no one commented that it was inappropriate. If, by the time that hymn was over, they had found me hiding under a table, I think those other guests would not have understood why. They wouldn't have understood how I feared that "Nearer, My God, To Thee" at that wedding feast would damage my reputa­tion as a tasteful and sophisticated man. 
There are hymns appropriate for sinking ships; there are seasons appropriate for sinking faiths. I don't know what Good Friday lessons I have to learn this week, but I do remember at the Reformation, at least half the battles were won by Lutherans; in Michigan, they are still winning battles. Otto is a better witness to his faith, I think, than I am to mine. He seemed to be a pretty good dancer too, swinging the best shoe on the floor. But he shouldn't have asked the band to play "Nearer, my God, to Thee," not at his own 
daughter's wedding. 
------~--­
~-~ 




CampusBriefsCampusBriefsCampusBriefsCan 
Sophomore Class elections today 
The sophomore election run-off election will take place in th.e residence halls today during lunch and dinner. 
Two tickets will be on the ballot headed by Reed King and Mike Clancy. Joining King on his ticket are Terry Getth for vice-president, Mike Mullen for secretary, and Dane Taylor running for treasurer. 
Ticket members with Clancy are John Ryan running for vice­president, Kris Quann for secretary and Rav Rai for treasurer. 
Chem students enter contest 
The twenty-sixth annual Tri­State Convention of the Student Affiliates of the American 'Chemi­cal Society was held last weekend at Central Michigan University. 
The convention. attended bv schools throughout Ohio, Indian~ and Michigan. included the com­petitive presentation of 20 under­graduate research papers. Notre Dame was represented by four chemistry students, Joe Fornatola, John Garofalo, Mike Desmond and Paul Bohn. Each contestant was judged on clarity of their IS-minute talk, use of visual aids. knowledge of subject matter, and ability to answer questions. 
Judges were provided by Central Michigan University and local in­dustries, such as Dow Chemical of Midland, Michigan. Of the three overall awards, Bohn received sec­ond place for his paper, Thermal Studies of Divalent Metal Chelates of 8-Mercaptoquinoline. 
The research performed under the direction of Dr. Bottei, consist­ed of decomposition analysis of metal complexes upon heating. 
The convention is hosted by a different school and state in the region each year. Notre Dame and St. Mary's College jointly organiz­ed the convention in 1973. 
Frosh orientation recruits sought 
St. Mary's students interested in working on the Freshman Orienta­tion Program should contact Stevie Wernig before April 23. 
Two co-chairmen for the entire orientation program and two co­chairmen for the Big Sister prog­ram will be chosen. Other areas for positions include: social, banquet. academic, transfer and spiritual chairmen. Students are also need­ed to work on all committees. 
in selling furniture, rugs, etc. Administrative Assistant for Spec­ial Projects Charlie Moran stated, ''The idea for a Trading Times is an excellent way for students, espec­ially seniors, to get rid of furniture that they no longer need." 
All interested students are re­quested to come to the Student Union offices, located in second floor LaFortune and fill out an ad sheet. All ads will be free, with Student Union paying the costs of the ads. Each ad should list the name, address and phone number of the person and a brief descrip­tion of the item for sale. Moran stated that the Student Union will reserve the right to omit or censure any ads that are submitted. 
All ads must be submitted to the Student Union office by 4:30 p.m., Thursday, April 22. ~ 
Alumni seek student rooms 
The Notre Dame alumni Associa­
tion is looking for students willing 
to share their room with an 
alumnus on April 29 and 30. 
Lodging needs to be found for a 
number of Notre Dame alumni who 
will be attending a meeting of the 
Alumni Senate on those dates. The 
Alumni Senate, composed of offi­
cers of Alumni Clubs from 
throughout the nation, meets once 
a year on campus. Students are 
asked to host alumni to give them a 
better idea of student life and to 
give students a chance to meet 
alumni. 
Students wishing to share their 
rooms should contact Paul Holow­
czak at the Alumni Office on the 
second floor of the Administration. 
Building, or call 7267 as soon ·as 
possible. 

Reagan to visit? 
The Ronald Reagan Campaign 
begins for the Indiana Primary on 
March 4th, according to Leo Buch­
ignani. a Notre Dame senior just 
appointed St. Joseph County Reag­
an Youth Coordinator. 
"We'll be forming committees at 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's to blitz 
precincts. pass out flyers, call 
citizens, and get out the vote for 
the former governor Reagan, Buch­
ignani stated. 
"I can reveal now that negotia­
tions are well under way to bring 
Reagan to Notre Dame sometime 
around the beginning of May." 
Buchignani continued. ''This cam­
pus has seen almost every speaker 
from the mildly liberal to the 
extremely radical. However, bal­
ancing conservative opinion is very 
rare.'' 
Buchignani urged any Reagan 
supporters to call him at 1376. 
Campus billiards Boating festival to 

finals tonight 
The finals in the campus-wide billiards tournament will be held on Wed., April 14 at 7 p.m. in the poolroom located under the Hud­dle. Ed Reardon will take on Bill Ellsworth. The public is invited. 
Free ad space for buyers, sellers 
The Student Union yesterday announced the creation of a Trad­ing Times advertisement sheet to be placed in the Observer on Monday, April 26. The purpose of the sheet is to provide free adver­tising space for students interested 


include raft race 
On Saturday, May 8, 1976, the attention of Michiana residents will be focused on the Sixth Annual St. Joseph River Run. 
The United States Canoeing Association and American Canoe­ing Association sanctioned race will attract over two hundred and fifty canoes, kayaks and rafts, entered in eighteen divisions. Four hun­dred contestants ranging from eleven-year-olds to internationally known Olympic competitors will paddle the miles from Leeper Park in South Bend to the French Paper Company Dam in Niles, Michgan. 
Feature attractions will be the High School Novice Open with Adams High School defending their title. Included will be a new Senior Men's Novice class. Also, 


STEREOLPS 8·TRACK TAPES SERIES 6.98 SERIES 7.98 



$3.99$5.99 


PICTURED ITEMS ON SALE. 
NDBOO TORE PRIC GOOD THRO GH 4/17/76 

Calloway protests 
Ski resort hearings in recess 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A Senate subcommittee yesterday abruptly recessed its hearings on Howard H. Callaway's alleged efforts to win Forest Service approval to expand his Colorado ski resort after the former Army secretary protested he was being treated unfairly. 
Callaway, who recently resigned as President Ford's campaign man­ager because of the controversy, complained those who had initially accused him of using improper influence in allegedly trying to persuade the Forest Service into approving the expansion had not been summoned to testify. 
Chairman  Floyd  K. Haskell,  
D-Colo.,  of  the  Senate  interior  
environment  subcommittee,  said  

these individuals would be sub­poenaed as a result of Callaway's protest. He then postponed the hearings until these witnesses can appear, which Haskell said would be after the ten-day easter recess which begins tomorrow. 
Callaway immediately reversed his position, telling the panel he would waive all rights to be confronted with his accusers just to get the proceedings over with. 
''I have a desire to get this behind me, more than anything. Please, sir, finish today," Callaway pleaded with Haskell. 
But the senator was unswayed, telling Callaway: "I don't want this hearing to go on with any implica­tion of unfairness." 
No pressure 

Callaway acknowledged earlier in the hearing he sought Forest Service approval to expand his Colorado ski resort but denied exerting political pressure to re­verse an agency recommendation opposing the expansion. 
The subcommittee began its probe after three citizens of Gunni­son County, Colo., -where the resort is located -alleged that the Forest Service was pressured by Callaway into approving expan­sion. 
Haskell identitied the three as Crested Butte Mayor Tom Glass, Gunnison County Judge John Levin and Myles Arber, a Crested Butte newspaper reporter. 
Arber was at the hearing but the other two had returned:" Colorado and when Callaway said testimony from Arber would be sufficient Haskell said all three must appear. 
Ucclaring "I have nothing to hide," Callaway conceded discuss­ing the proposed expansion in a meeting last July 3 in his Pentagon office with Forest Service and Agriculture Department officials. 
The Forest Service is part of the Agriculture Department. 
Callaway said that meeting had been initiated by two of the Agriculture Department officials who were longtime friends. He said the main purpose of their visit was to pay a social call on him on his last day as army secretary. 
The following day he became chairman of President Ford's elect­ion campaign. He recently resigned that job following published reports of his alleged efforts to win federal approval for the expansion of his Crcstt•d Butte ski resort onto a nearby federal mountain. 
Caliaway owns a two-thirds int­erest in the ski resort company. 
Callaway acknowledged a Forest Service ofticial was brought along to the .July 3 meeting to give him a status report on the Crested Butte expansion. 
But he strongly denied having 
RESEARCH 
FREE CATALOG! 
Write or call lor your copy of our latest catalog of over 5.000 re­search studies These studies are designed to HELP YOU IN THE PREPARATION of 
• Research Papers 

• 
Essays • Case Studtes 

• 
Speeches • Book Revtews WE AlSO DO CUSTOM WRITING 


MINUTE RESEARCH 
1360 N. Sandburg, 111602 
Ch1cago. IllinOIS 60610 
312-337-2704 
anything to do with a decision later in the year in which the Forest Service overruled the earlier rec­ommendation against the expans­ion. 
"If I had wanted to exert 
pressure, I would have gone to the 
secretary of agriculture," Callaway 
said. "And I would have called him 
not once, but once a week." 
"Perhaps I was naive," Calla­way said, "but I just didn't see anything wrong with that meeting. 
Denies financial motive He also denied the expansion was sought because the company was in deep financial trouble, although he acknowledged the firm had debts of more than $7 million. Callaway said, "there is not a breath of truth" in an allegation by Haskell that the firm wanted the expansion not to develop the federally owned mountain for ski­ing but to increase the value of its 

~AffY 


~A~'l 


Why hunt all over town for Easter gifts and goodies? We have everything you need in one place... and at lower pricts. You might say we have all your eggs in one basket. Come see ...join the Easter parade of bargains at the Greatest Place on Worth. 
CAVALIER CAMERA 
BELLE PLAZA AT NILES; SCOTTSDALE MALL 
land holdings at the base of the mountain. 
"I don't question your motives and I deeply resent your question­ing mine," Callaway told Haskell. 
He said the firm had been seeking the expansion onto nearby Snodgrass Mountain since 1970. "We've always considered it to be part of the same area," he said. 
THE VILLAGE SCENE 
APPAREL FOR THE 
GUYS & GALS 
OF THE ND-SMC 
COMMUNITY 

SCOTTSDALE MALL 
Tuesday, April13, 1976 the observer 
THE POSTER PLACE 
100 11x17 POSTERS only $10.00 
insly·prints 
203 N. MAIN ST. 
SOUTH BEND 289-6977 

FRESHMEN • 
INTERESTED IN JOINING 
SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL COMMITTEE 1976-1977 
SIGN UP ROOM 309 O'SHAG 
••••••••••~ r. WfP.~.E.~Qfl'f.6e~J~.l1••••••••• 

........................ ' ......... ' .... . .. ' , ." " , 
-

New 'pragmatic' Democrats gathering support 
MADISON, Wise. (PNS) -With But the central core of those old but they clearly plan to take a tack with an expose of Carter's use hammered away at Carter's unwil­Jimmy Carter mowing down liber­answers, at least for the Democrats harder look at costly programs. of non-union labor, paid only $2.54 lingness to lay out concrete prog­als even in liberal states like was big spending. And Carter's One of Carter's main proposals is per hour, on his peanut farm. Since rams to deal with unemployment, Wisconsin and darkhorse candidate and Brown's talk of belt-tightening to reorganize and streamline the then its leaders have publicly urged urban problems and the like. Jerry Brown leaping to fourth place and re-examining old assumptions federal bureaucracy. And unlike the Democratic Platform Commit­But polls show that only Carter, in the polls without yet campaign­has struck a nerve throughout the his opponents Henry Jackson and tee to reject the idea that govern­at this point, could beat Ford. The ing, there is more than noise and country. Morris Udall, he opposes large­ment has grown too large. groundswell is clearly with Brown clatter behind the Democratic pri­Carter. for instance, has won scale federal spending to create Their favorite, party stalwart and and him, not the traditional Hump­maries. support from fiscal conservatives, public service jobs for the unem­big spender par-excellence Hubert hrey wing of the party. 
The rise of Carter and Brown former Wall ace supporters, South­ployed, as well as direct federal aid Humphrey, has launched his own And it is no coincidence that signals a profound ideological shift erners, but he has also won a to New York City. "stop Carter"movement. Hoping Brown is a governor and Carter a within the Democratic party, unlike significant percentage of the black to be drafted at a deadlocked former governor.
Brown says that as president,
any since Franklin Roosevelt and liberal vote and enough aid convention, Humphrey campaign­State government, because it
"I'd work hard and ask a lot of
launched his New Deal. from those associated with the ed for Carter's main opponent in cannot print money or rack up huge
questions," suggesting it is better
Both Carter and Brown represent McCarthy and McGovern candidac­Wisconsin, Morris Udall, and re­spending deficits, has been the
to answer complex problems with 
a new "pragmatic" wing of the ies to be labeled a "warmed-over portedly won the backing of a large proving ground for the new prag­
"I don't know" and a serious effort 
Democratic Party, rejecting the McGovern" by George Wallace. number of uncommitted delegates matism. The vast majority of the
to investigate than by putting more
traditional big spending approach Brown, with his phenomenal elected in New York. nation's 36 Democratic governors,
money into ineffective bureaucrac­
to social problems. 80-plus percent approval rating in He has repeatedly spoken whether originally elected as con­
ies. 

In the face of the recession, California has had much the same against Carter's fiscal conserva­servatives or liberals, have taken to 
He has proven himself willing to
traditional Democratic spending to success. tism and anti-bureaucracy stance. budget-cutting and belt-tightening
suggest radical approaches. But
help the poor and unemployed ran Joseph Holzinger, an early Mc­In Virginia recently he said, "This in an effort to bring state finances 
although he is now telling the press 
up dangerous deficits, forcing bud­Carthy supporter who was North­business of less government, this under control. 
that unemployment will be the
get cuts and tax hikes at the city ern California Democratic Party slogan of 'Less Is More', is a Should Carter or Brown win and 
number one issue in his campaign, 
and state level and fueling runaway Chairman from 1968-71 and is now shoddy. phony business. remain true to their campaign
he has yet to demonstrate an
inflation in the national economy. number two man in Carter's Calif­"Don't buy the phrase," promises, the long-range conse­
inexpensive answer to the problem.
Against this backdrop, Carter ornia effort, says "What we are Humphrey cautions, "Take a look quences could be profound. and Brown talk of streamlining seeing is an end to the old His recently unveiled jobs prog­at the specifics. Take a look at what Whether a fiscally conservative bureaucracies, re-examining costly liberalism, absolutely. The party is ram in California--though creative­they mean. Less for whom? Less Democratic Party could over the programs and holding down federal ready to return to fiscal conserva­ly bypassing government bureau­for the people who can least afford long run hold onto those constit­spending. And they stress that tism. to Jeffersonian-style democ­cracies by paying private compan­to suffer the pains of having less." uencies which have relied heavily complex problems cannot be racy." ies and community organizations to The Democrats, he contends, on New Deal-type programs and solved, in Brown's words, "by When Brown declared himself a hire the jobless would create only must remain true to the Roosevelt­made up the heart of the party's throwing money at them." candidate, hoping to be chosen as a 3,000 new jobs a year. Truman-Kennedy-Johnson heri­Humphrey wing--organized labor. 
Yet they remain liberals on many fresh spirit if the convention dead­tage of trying to use government to minorities, and the cities--is per­
Party stalwarts counter-attack 
social issues. combining social locks -he presented his candidacy help people. haps the major question. liberalism with fiscal conservatism as an alternative between "Repub­This new fiscal conservatism is Jackson and Udall have similarly in a way that makes them impossi­lican philosophies that government now under heavy attack by the 
~........................~..........~............,
ble to classify by the old liberal­can't do anything" and "tradition­traditional New Deal wing of the moderate-conservative labels. al Democratic approaches that are party, including organized labor 
~ Business Manager o~ 6e~:· ~~~-~
1
Much of their popularity un­running into the difficulty that and candidates Henry Jackson, 
o[&. ~ ~b ~ 
doubtedly comes from style--both there are limited resources." Morris Udall and Hubert Humph­are in their own way running as Both Brown and Carter have rey. Art Director :t19 c1('c c1vo ! fresh faces in a new era, rejecting remained vague about how they Labor, anxious for a president 
e~ ~ ~.s-~ 
the well-worn answers of Washing­hope to achieve what Holzinger committed to federal spending for ton. calls "cost-effective liberalism," full employment, signalled its at-! ~ Sports ~;.o~. ~eQ' ! 
~ .b( -'q/ Fo ~ 
i ~~ (). Student Life ~o~. :r i
Cheerleaders challenged; ~ ~.bs~ ~v0 ~ 
~ .( ~( S(/. Events ~~ 
review committee formed I /~ /o~~~ Q ~-~ 
II. ~Q~ ~170 '/)'~ ~ Activities ~ 
(continued from page 3) had no official document to go by," of discussion, the meeting broke up 
willing to sacrifice the hrst two he said. He commended this with no conclusion reached. Cur­
~ tv. OA....: 0 q,s ~/)' ~ ~ 
games to have the whole selection year's squad for taking the initia-rently a committee of concerned 
~ q/r .. 7 ~ 0~ )'0. )'~ Seniors ~ 
process be fair." tive for drawing up such a docu-students. cheerleaders and mem-Others suggested that a student-ment, and asked everyone present bers of the Student Activities staff 
~ ~4 ;ytJ ~ · IV ~ 
wide poll be taken by the Observer to consider the spirit in which the is being formed to resolve the ~................................~............................: ~..............t 
to find the true feeling of the issue tryouts were handled. Both he and contlict. They expect to meet 
on campus. Throughout this Bracken stated throughout the sometime within the next few days. 
portion of the discussion it was evening that the tryouts were held Results will be released as soon as 
emphasized that the cheerleaders in as fair a way as possible. the committee reaches any deci­
are representing the entire Notre "We were hoping to get a new sion. 
Dame student bodv. image for the cheerleaders, trying r---------------. 
Merluzzi suggested that there to get away from the select clique 
NOW OPEN 
may be other alternatives besides business," Bracken said. She reholding tryouts. "Are we con-noted that the tryouts were a huge KELLEY'S sidering everything we possibly improvement over previous years could?" she asked. She hoped that in her opinion. "We tried to be fair SPORTLAND more suggestions would be voiced ali the way. We did the best job we before the final decision is made. could. If people have complaints, U.S. 31 NILES She suggested the possibility of we are willing to listen to them." ~'-'-'-'-"""'-"""'a: 
adding more positions on next After nearly two and a half hours ~ ~ year's squad to alleviate some of -~ Graduating Seniors ~ the problem and called for a ~ ~ committee of concerned students to ~ Congratulations! After 4 ~ study and rewrite those portions of ~ :. the cheerleaders constitution that ~ years of hard \I\A1rk you ~ were vague and needed improve-~ deserve a new car. No ~ ment. "The constitution of any ~ payrrents until August. ~ 
organization is only as good as the ~ Jll'.: 
peopfe who uphold and honor it," !'-~ 
Merluzzi said. ~ Call or See Art or Jack at: 
Reid stated that he felt that the jjll Metro Un 1 ~ 
relationship and credibility of the '-m n-mera.Jry ~ cheerleaders with the student body ~ Mishawaka, Indiana ~ was the real crux of the issue. I~ 256-0211 I ·'Prior to this year the cheerleaders .........~ 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
t mct•Hii:ll:lllliiHIIIJill:lf•lYl~
f Call for Appointrrent 
f RUSS & Ll BERTY DRIVE 

t  259-6391  AN UNTUNED ENGINE WASTES GAS!  
t t t  $19.95 PLUS PARTS, MOST CARS  
t  MILEX ELECTRONIC TUNE-UP SAVES GAS!  
t  INCLUDES:  

, 40 Step Engine Analysis
f MISHAWAKA 

, Electronic Carburetor Adjust , Calibrate Timing
f (1 BLOCK SOUTH OF K-MART) 
, 30 Step Tune-up

f MON-SAT 8-5 P.M. , Guarantee Parts & Labor 6,000 miles-120 days
f -~alists in Brakes, A-C cr1d Electrical Servire! 

~~~~~...-.~~..-...-~...-.....-..._. ....~...-.~~~...-. 
I J ., 

•' 
" " "' "' 
~~~~...-.~ 
WITH THIS COUPON f RECEIVE ~ 
~
$5.00 t 
OPENS HER HEART
OFF t 
Elsa's sculptured heart is on a chain, but
~ 
it flirts up, down and around. Sterling
legular Rice t 
silver heart with fifteen-inch chain, s 34. MILEX PRECISION 
t 
' 
TIFFANY &Co.
I 

ELECTRONIC t 
TUNE-UP 

CHICAGO 715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE • ZIP: 60611 • TEL: (312) 944-7506 
t 
Add two dollars for shipping and handlingplus sales tax where applicable
I BRAKE ' 
American Express • BankAmericard Design Copyrighted © T. & Co.
-~!.u!. __t 

II I • II I I • .. •• 1P.......... • • '• "'• • • t. • .• ,. .,. • .. ·-~ ... '• •.· "'• '• "'· • 

Tuesday, April13, 1976 the observer 1 1 
Thirsty 32 seek Bookstore b-ball title 
by Rich Odloso 

The wheat is being separated from the chaff in the fifth annual Bookstore Basketball Tournament as the Thirsty 32 go after Sectional championships tonight. 
Highlights of yesterday's sect­ional semi-finals: 
In the Vince Meconi Regional David Feldman canned ten baskets in leading Xavier and the 4 Hollanders to a tense 23-21 win over Jay and the Straps. and Big John Powell hit 9 of 10 attempts as Boogie Fever had a surprisingly easy time with Black Prince and the 4 Knights 21-11. 
In other Meconi games, Bill Laimbeer scored ten baskets (only two dunks) and blocked eight shots as Poseidon Adventure tloated to its third lopsided win. 21-5. In a foul and fight-marred game Capons used nine free throws to edge Sta.. h and His Cold Showers 22-20. 
The feature game in back of the Bookstore saw Average White Team stave off a furious rally by Reggie Jackson and the Kiss My O's to eek out a 21-10 decision. 
In Austin Carr Regional action ­
ND Rowing Club remains unbeaten 
The Notre Dame Rowing Club continued its winning ways this weekend. easilv rowing past Wayne State, G~and Valley State. and Culver M.A. Saturday's five victories leave the Irish undefeated in their first seven races of the new sca!>on. 
The men's lightweight varsity set the pace in the lirst race of the afternoon by trouncing the Wayne Statt· lights, crossing the finish line a full thirty-three seconds ahead of the competition. In the next race, the men's novice crew steadily pulled away from the Wayne State, Grand Vallev. and Culver boats, covering the. 2000 meter course in 
6:16. twenty-two seconds in front of second place Wayne State. 
The women's crew defeated Grand Valley in both the novice and varsity races. After falling behind on a 'slow start, the novice crew walked through Grand Valley and at the end of the thousand meter race had buried their opponent by 26 seconds. The varsity had command of their race from the start. never allowing the other boat even a hint of victory. Notre Dame crossed the line in 4:14. nineteen seconds ahead of Grand Valley. 
The afternoon ended as the Notre Dame varsity heavyweights rowed past Wayne state and Grand Valley. Notre Dame won with the time of 6:05, nine seconds ahead of Grand Valley and ten ahead of Wayne State. 
Next Saturday, April 17, Notre Uame plays host to crews from the University of Nebraska and Michi­gan State. Races start at one o'clock at the Mishawaka Marina Landing. 
Pure Prairie Leaeue 
~~ 

I,_ 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM APRil 19, 1976 8:00 P.M. 
SPECIAL GUESTS TO BE ANNOUNCED 
Tickets: $5.00 In Advance, $6.00 At Door 

Outlets: Morris C1vic. N. D. Student Union. Boogie Records. Just for the Record. The Record Joint & The Suspended Chord (Elkhart) 
CAIIIliNAI. ~I'IIOIILICri<INS 

Luther Bradley scored 10 as SWAT fiercely contested matches Heils II at 5. speared the Space Cowboys 21-11. Hoops edged Uneaged Cagers CARR REGIONAL -SWAT vs. Bred Still Flows edged the Refrig­23-21. Bred Still Flows on Bookstore 9 at erators 21-19 behind Ted Slaughter The Towers Regional saw the 6:45, TILCS vs. P. Posse on Stepan and Jimmy Ryan. Dave Batton hit 9 day's biggest rout and leading 8 at 6:45, Teddy Roosevelt vs. Goat and Dave Kelly added 8 as TILCS individual performance. Act 4 Ropers on Bookstore 10 at 4:45 and destroyed Danik's Dirtballs 21-9. raced past the Posse 21-1 while Longneekers vs. Marxist-Manson TILCS' John Dubenetzky is now 3 Dave Kuzmicz was connecting for Family winner on Stepan 1 at 6:45. for 27 on the tourney. 14 baskets as A and the 4 Holes 
NORTH QUAD REGIONAL-Oreo 
Controversy ensued when Last dumped Diamond Dogs 21-9. 
and Vanilla vs. White Heat on Hurrah edged Teddy Roosevelt and Football practice starts late on Stepan 2 at 6:45, Shooters vs. the Rough Riders 26-24 only to be Tuesday and Thursday so Tim 
disqualified for using an ineligible Bourret has had to reschedule a 
player. number of today's sectional finals. THE FARMWORKERS ARE 
In the North Quad Regional Ross Here is the schedule (Rick's Picks Browner and Ron Crews dominated are in bold type): LOOKING FOR DEDICATED MEN the boards as Oreo and the Vanilla 
MECONI REGIONAL -Boogie
Wafers edged the Steel Rods 21-19. ND WOMEN. WE NEED 50 FULL­
Fever vs. A. Mahrad and the Joe Montana's slam block ignited 
Cream Co. on Lyons 11 at 6:45. 
Firin' Myron and the Bad A's to a Average White Team vs. Capons TIME VOLUNTEER ORGANIZERS. hardfought 21-18 win over Oblivion 
on Bookstore 10 at 6:45 and Rebel 
RECRUITMENT HOURS
Express. In one of the day's most Yell vs. Xavier Hollanders on Lyons 
11:00 a.m. to 3:00 v.m.SMC punishes Irish women MEETING 1:00 p.m. TODAY 
La FORTUNE RATHSKELLER
in softball season premiere 
by Betsy Carey 
Notre Dame's women's softball 
team went down to a disappointing 
defeat in their season opener 
Sunday afternoon at the hands of 
the Saint Mary's College team, 19 
to 17. 
Saint Mary's dominated in the early innings of the game which was played in the windy 40 degree weather behind Notre Dame's Athletic and Convocation Center. 
The Irish, coached by Sophomore Joe Ungashick were held scoreless until the third inning when Fresh­man Maria Choca sliced a double into left field with bases loaded. The hit brought in three runs to counter the early 9-0 lead of SMC. 
Saint Mary's. came back with eight quick runs in the 4th inning before ND's rally in the 5th. Behind the batting talents of pitcher Maureen Maloney, Notre Dame scored nine times, including a grand slam home run by Malo-
An Tostal plans fourth Decathlon 
Plans have been finalized for An Tostal's 4th annual Decathlon. the decathlon will be held on Sunny Saturday, April 24 and will feature 9 holes of golf, free throw shooting, swimming, speed skating. 100 yard dash, softball throw, shot put, long jump, ohstaele course, and the mile run. Individual and 5-man team competition will be held with trophies being awarded to the top individual winners and also a special prize to the team champi­ons. There will be a $1.00 entry fee. Volunteers are also needed to help as judges, timekeepers, and scorers. Anyone wishing to enter as a contestant, volunteer as a worker, or those with questions should contact Greg Wilks at 3349 or Kevin Shortelle a 3340. Dead­line for entires is Wed. April 21st. 

ncy. In the sixth inning.freshman 
SPECIAL SPRING SALE
Carol Lally tied the game 17 all with a double, driving home three Irish runners. The Irish had come 
IKocl~ 

from a 17-3 deficit to a tie game only to go down in the last inning by two Saint Mary's scores. 
lnstamatic 50 Outfit 
This was ND's first use of the fast pitch softball game. The rules vary somewhat from slow pitch and 
includes camera, magicube, film, wrist 
the terms of this game were 
strap, instructions.

decided upon after the last practice session of the ND team. But Coach Ungashick expressed 
SPECIAL $82.50 LIST $119 .. 95 
a desire for a rematch with the SMC team. "I hope we will get the chance to play Saint Mary's again with a slow pitch game," Unga­shick said. The Irish bench echoed 
AUL T CAMERA CO. his sentiment. There are 9-10 games tentatively set for ND's 
. 127 S. Mic . 
SOUTH BEND 
women's team. 
NOTICES 
Typmg, professionally done, thesis, dissertations, resumes, term papers Barb al 259-4894. 
Will do typing, experienced. Term papers, manuscripts, etc. Call 233-8512 
0 
Nominations for SMC class and hall officers and Student Assembly open Thursday, April 8. Platforms due to Room 298 LeMans by midnite, Wednesday, APril 14. Questions call Mindy 4849. 
Typing, $.35 per page. Call Dan 272-5549 
0 
Morrissey Loan closes Tues. April 
13. All loans must be paid by then. Hours 11 :15-12:15. Call 7442, 8220, or 8105. 
Linda's Letters, dissertations spe­cialists, typing at student rates, 289-5193. 
Stereo Components, 20-40 percent discount, all quality name brands, RMS Audio, 321 S. Main, 288-1681, M-F 12:00-6:00. 
Accurale, fast typing. Hours 8 A.M.-8P.M. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746 
Rugby Shirts, get the same shirts as the cheerleaders in blue-gold, green gold, and red-blue for $13. Call Dave at 277-0948. 
Typing wanted: pick-up and delivery reasonable. 683-77 59. 
Anyone interested in babysitting for faculty and staff members, please call the Ombudsmen Service, ext. 7638. 
Having a Party? For the lowest prices on kegs, cases, and free delivery, call Dave at 277-0948. 
FOR RENT 
2-7 bedroom houses for 3 month summer rentals. All furnished. Call 288-6259 after 6 P.M. 
House tor rent, 3-people, $150 plus utilities, 914 Notre Dame, 234-5646. 
For Rent: 3-bedroom Duplex, also tour . .,d six bedroom houses avail­able f Sept. Completely furnished, call 23.. -9364. 
4 and 6 bedroom houses for Sept. 1976. good neighborhoods, near 

ND, .reasonable rates. Contact .Mr.-••\ ......~~~~~._._._,_ ___...._,_,_..._ • • Gallo at 234-6688. Ride to Boston tor Easter, leave 
---------------I' 

anytime, or a ride back from Boston, Steve 1771. 
Classified Ads 
Summer houses and rooms for rent, real close to campus, furnished ridiculously reasonable. 233-2613 or 232-7263. 
5-room house within walking dis­tance of ND, 233-6438. 
For summer rental. Super 4 bed­room tully furnished house near Jeff.-Eddy. Washer, dryer, all utili­ties. $175. 234-1972. 
Milliken Rentals, 282-2089 233-5833 House and apartments available for June or Sept. 
FOR SALE 

1 blue.gold ND jacket. Real cheap. 287-5218. 
My father is liquidating appliance store. Must sell 50 refrigerators. Will sell for unbelievably low price! Call Bill 6891. 
Waterbed, king-size double, $35, call Frank 8656. 
Slereo for sale, Sansui AU-7500 Amp, Kenwood K T 6005 Tuner, Garrard Zero 92 turntable, Pioneer 3-way speakers. Call Frank 234-6535 
Dual 1229Q changer, $180, call Len at 289-8990, less than 1 year old, excellent condition. 
Under. Pioneer car stereo cassette player, used 6 months, auto. reverse $60, call Tom at 3579. 
1973 Fiat 128 SL, 29,000 miles, $1.300 call 277-2420 after 7 P.M. 
Mazda 1973 RX3, 34,000 miles, new tires, air conditioning, $1,000, call 234-5939 evenings. 
For Sale: 10-speed Huffy Olympia bicycle, $60 or best offer. Dan 288-3025 
0 
WANTED 

Need ride tor two to Milwaukee. Leave Thurs after 2:30. Call Kathy 1272. 
Need ride for Easter-anywhere around Ph illy after 12:30 Thursday. Will pay, drive, etc. Call John 1061. 
Need ride to Chicago tor break, call Mary 4438. 
Two girls need ride to Columbus, Ohio for Easter, will share driving and money Call Anne 4-5325, or 
·Kathy 4-4202. 
'son. Welcome to God's earth-Isaiah Gabriel Casey Robert Dylan David Ishmael Rumpelstilskin Daniel a. dam Z. Shiel. Cougar. Chris and all Moreau. 
There once was a BizBag named Crust Who insulted and dumped with a lust. Cut you down anytimE', day or night, rain or ~hrine, Yes, her mouTh was as big as her 

. -ust. 
ALJAY, Roses are red Red-eyes are pinker rgive the woro . You lick my shpinkter 
Ragin' Ralph 
P. S. I gotta bone 
Kardlac 5 on Stepan 2 at 5:30. : 
'Skins vs. Flrln' Myron on Stepan 4 at 7 and Last 5 vs. Hells Hoops on Bookstore 10 at 4. TOWERS REGIONAL -Butcher Bros. vs Nutmeggers on Stepan 5 at 6:45, Anul Explosions vs. Ml1 Fandsome 5 on Stepan 6 at 6:45. A and 4 Holes vs. Costello's Kids on Bookstore 9 at 4:45 and Act 5 vs. Surprises on Stepan 9 at 6:45. 
Driving to LosAngeles, April 15, will share expenses and driving. Keith 234-2960 (home) or 237-2698 (work) 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: female Irish setter, call 287­5218. 
Losl: 1 pair of men's black framed bifocals, on campus. If found, call 8661. After 5 P.M. call 232-3217. Reward. 
LosI: one large copper, brass, and silver twist bracelel. Vall Duff 1470. 
Lost: beloved earthenware coffee mug in library basement seminar room G236, after noon on Monday, April 5. $5 reward. 234-9386. 
Found: Male, mostly Pekingese small dog on Sun. morning, April 11 on ND campus. Gentle, friendly, teeth indicate older dog. Obviously from good home. At Humane Society, 2506 Liberty, Mishawaka. 255-4726. 
Lost: 1 Bancrofl tennis racket and 3 balls. Call 3369 ask tor Mark. 
PERSONALS 
Our Ziggy Baby says: She's never fell so loose--Is that true Tobin? 
Nobody ever had a rainbow baby until he had the rain Keeches. 
Bonehead, Your eyes are bad, your hair is kinky, you have a Iettish, for action in the shphinky. 
L.J. (the Incredible Hector) 
Kelley, Happy 21st birthday and many more!! PeeWee 
Congratulations to Bob and Margie at the birth of your Sunday morning 
..,.=~A-!:.... 
• I• el • 
:1 ___ --· ]: 
·--~'!'
. . 
·u·
~~~ ~! 
·r_.........
.L:.
•• I•••
.• I.. 
.• . ..I• 
. 
:·__:· li 
:tf.;
., ·• 
•! •
.. . 
2 -6145 
12 the observer Tuesday, April 13, 1976 

NO's All-American Niehaus awaits career in pro football 
by Ray O'Brien 

Notre Dame will have a very large gap to fill at defensive tackle this year as the 6-5, 260 lb. All American, Steve Niehaus, will be graduating to the pro ranks. 
Niehaus was the second college player chosen in the NFL draft this past week. The Seattle Seahawks, an expansion team, were impres­sed with Neihaus' size and speed. Seattle coach, Joe Patera is making the Notre Dame senior the nucleus of his defensive team. 
As a unanimous All-American, very few doubted Niehaus' skills, but to be drafted second out of all college players in the country is a very high honor. Niehaus wasn't a-. surprised as some of his fullowcrs as he commented, "I was out to Seattle the week before and their doctor checked my knees and said they were OK and they told me they wanted me." 
Niehaus had also visited New Orleans who had the third pick in the draft but the Saints never got a chance at him. Although pleased by the results. Niehaus took it in stride. 
"It all really depends on what a team needs. If they are filled at your position, they will just pass you by. Patera is a defensive coach who worked with the "Fearsome Foursome" of the L.A. Rams. He decided to start building a de­fense." 
Seattle was Niehaus' first pick out of all the pro teams he was interested in playing for. He explained that as a new team there will be many other young players and everyone involved will be in a going to do against the pros. At the top of the line experience means a

Miranda breaks records in meet 
bJ Paul Stevenson 

The Notre Dame track team placed seventh out of twelve teams in a roughly contested track meet at Arkansas State University this past weekend. 
Kansas University claimed top honors. followed by hosting Arkan­sas State and Western Kentucky. "All the teams in the competition were super, and I feel that we performed very well in placing seventh." Head Coach Joe Piane stated. 
There were many outstanding individual performances turned in by Irish athletes. The highlight of the meet had to be the performance of Notre Dame's Jay Miranda. 
Miranda set a stadium and school record. streaking his way to a 1 :48 time in 800 meters. Miranda broke the previous record held by Alex Wilson. a bronze medalist in the Olympics, established back in 1932. of 1:SO flat. The time exhibited by Miranda qualifies him for the NCAA championships. 
"Miranda is the first person on the team to qualify for the NCAA's so far, but we hope to have more as time goes on," Piane commented. 
There were numerous personal bests compiled by the Irish track­sters. Jim Reinhart and Bilf Allmendinger posted 4:06 and 4:09 times respectively in the mile .. Allmendinger also notched a 1:53.5 time in the 800 meter event. 
Co-captain Mike Hogan pole 

vaulted his way to an individual 
high of 15.6 feet. Joe Nicholson 
Lacrosse 'A' Club notches two wins 
by Tom Bingle 

The weekend proved both bene­ficial ·and detrimental to the Notre Dame Lacrosse Club. The "A" team wa~ victorious in their con­tests while the "B" sid~ fell short on two occasions. 
On Saturday, the "A" squad 

defeated the Spartans of Michigan St.. 12-7. Co-captain Don Trabert led the Irish with four goals. Bob 
Thibodeau and Jay Williams added two goals apiece and Bob Driscoll, Thad Naquin. Jim Rice and Paty Clvnes contributed single tallies. 
The game with Indiana the following day was different. as the Irish achieved revenge from a fall defeat. by trouncing the Hoosiers, 11-4. The awesome Irish offensive exemplified a complete team effort, as nine different players scored. Jay Williams and Geoff Johnson pa.ced this barrage with 2 goals cash. 
The "B" team was not so fortunate, as they lost to the University of Miami (0.) 8-4, and Chicago Lacrose Club (B), 4-3. 
The "A" side, now 6-2, will travel to West Lafayette to play Purude on Wednesday while the "B" team will battle Albion at 3 
p.m. on the Stepan Center Fields. 
new situation. 

Professional football is ''a dream 
come true" for the Irish grid star. Things were not always thisbright as Niehaus explained, "I have thought about this since high school but after the two knee operations I thought my chances were really 
small.'' 

In the past two yers Niehaus has 
had no trouble with his knees but 
he feels he still must improve 
physically to make it in pro football. 
I have got to get a lot stronger 
because at every higher level the 
players get bigger and better." 

As any senior in college, Niehaus 
feels the pressures facing him in 
his new occupation. These worries 
are compounded by the fact that he. 
is 22 years old and a nucleus of a 
pro football team. In regard to this 

situation he commented, "I feel a lot of pressure. I am scared right now because I don't know how I am 
lot." 
Niehaus plans on taking the streaked his way to a 49.7 time in that as we're getting into the heart adjustment to the pros one step at a 400 meters. while freshman Dennis of the season we seem to be time. Notre Dame has prepared VanderKraats placed third in the running our best. and this is at a him in many ways to meet these steeple chase, turning a time of time when it is most important," pressures. On his decision to come 
9:15. Paine noted. to the University Niehaus related. 
Coach Piane was pleased with This weekend the Irish track "It was between Ohio State and his teams' performance. and is team travels to Columbus. Ohio to here. The football programs were looking to the future. "It appears participate in the Ohio State relays. pretty equal but I couldn't pass up 
the education Notre Dame had to offer." The Notre Dame senior reflected on his four years at Notre Dame. 
"I enjoyed it here. I have been lucky to be able to play here for four years. If I had to choose all over I would come here again." 
Steve "The House" Niehaus is used to success and there is no doubt he has worked hard to get it. That is why Notre Dame fans arc willing to bet a healthy Niehaus will rise to these new standards. 
Tony 

Pace=;=====================================================================================================================================;=========================================================================================================================================================;============: 
Looking Back 
==================================================================================================================================================================================================:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::=:::=:=:::=:::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:===================================================:=NFL Draft 
Two days, seventeen rounds, and 492 players later. the National Football League draft was completed. There are no losers in a draft. every team helps itself to some extent. but those teams who draft best can usually be found in the playoffs and eventually the Super Bowl. 
Here:s a team by team evaluation of this extravaganza: 
AFCEast 
Baltimore -The three players most likely to help the Colts are : Purdue's defensive tackle Ken Novak. Texas A & M's linebacker Ed Simonini. and Ron Lee, a running back from West Virginia. This can only be an average draft for Joe Thomas. 
Buffalo -Defensive back Mario Clark of Oregon and offensive linemen Ken Jones of Arkansas State and Joe Devlin of Iowa will all help, but the Bills need defensive linemen. Pat Toomay and former Domer Walt Patulski have moved onto greener pastures and the only replacement in sight is Mississippi's Ben Williams. This, too, is only an average draft. 
Miami -Don Shula got the linebacking help he needs in the form of San Jose State's Kim Bokamper and Arizona State's Larry Gordon. Both of these players have superstar potential. The Dolphins had a good overall draft. 
New England-Blue chipper's Mike Haynes, Tim Fox and Pete Brock should all provide immediate help for the Patriots. ASU's Haynes and Ohio State's Fox are defensive backs, while Colorado's Brock is a center, the first to be chosen on the first round in five years. 
New York Jets-Lou Holtz had a very good first draft. Richard Todd will eventually be Joe Namath's replacement at quarterback. Local boy Shafer Suggs of Ball State is a solid defensive back and Penn State's Greg Buttle is a fine outside linebacker. Bob Martin of Nebraska could also help there. 
The Jets had two consecutive picks during the twelfth round and selected the Buckey brother combination, quarterback Dave and receiver Don, of 
N.C. State. AFC Central 
Cincinnati -The Bengals had an excellent draft. Billy Brooks and Archie Griffin will put some more scoring punch in the offense, as will Chris Bahr. There are also two sleeper picks here -Reggie Williams, a Dartmouth linebacker and Bob Bateman, a 6-6 Brown quarterbacker. 
Cleveland -The Browns had an average draft. Running back Mike Pruitt of Purdue and wide receiver Dave Logan of Colorado should help, but many of the other picks are questionable. The Browns will now have two Pruitts, of no relation, in the backfield. 
Houston -The Oilers had a poor draft. Tight end Mike Barber of Louisiana Tech is the only player who should aid this club right away. 
Pittsburgh -The Steelers built themselves on the draft and they are perpetuating their dominance by it. Tight end Bennie Cunningham of Clemson and center Ray Pinney of Washington fill the Steelers only two possible weak spots. The Steelers also drafted the best name, Wonderful Monds Jr.. a defensive back from Nebraska. He has talent to go with his colorful name. 
AFCWest 
Denver-The Broncos selected offensive guard Tom Glassic of Virginia, defensive back Kurt Knoff of Kansas, and quarterback Craig Penrose of San Diego State. All three could start right away. 
Kansas City-The Chiefs may have made up for last year's draft fiasco with their selections this year. Defensive linemen Cliff Frazier and Keith Simons, of UCLA and Minnesota respectively, are sorely needed. Iowa's offensive tackle Rod Walters and Oklahoma's linebacker Jimbo Elrod · should see immediate service. A sleeper choice here is running back Rod Wellington of Iowa. 
Oakland -AI Davis had a typically Raider draft, a few solid picks and a number of sleepers. Defensive tackle Charles Philyaw of Texas Southern and center Rik Boness of Nebraska are highly regarded, while Fred Steinfort of Boston College may be groomed to replace ageless George Blanda. 
San Diego -The key to the Chargers draft is the performance of Joe Washington, some say he is too small to take the pounding a pro running back gets. Two other choices here are center Don Macek of Boston College and flashy wide receiver Larry Dorsey of Tennessee State. 
" • • • -.. .. .. ... ... • ~ ---• ~ ' ~ ' -' ' • • ~ • • z 1 : • ' 
Nt'C East 
Dallas -Aaron Kyle. a Wyoming defensiveback, and Jim Jensen. an Iov. a running back. were the Cowboys top two picks and both should fit in very nicely. Just about anyone drafted here could make the team, but the best sleeper is.Colorado's Dave Williams. a quarterback who the Cowboys project as a running back. 
New York Giants-The Giants had a typically poor draft. Troy Archer, a Colorado defensive end, was their top pick. He may be good but he may also be too light. The performance of Michigan's Gordon Bell and South Carolina State's Harry Carson, a linebacker, is the key to the Giants draft. Even if these two come through however. the draft here is below average. 
Philadelphia -The Eagles need defensive linemen and they drafted to fill that need. Florida's Mike Smith, Florida State's Greg Johnson. or Maryland -Eastern Shore's Carl Hairston could be the answer. Herb Lusk. Long Beach State's running back, also deserves a look. 
St. Louis -Defensive tackle Mike Dawson of Arizona will start right away but. other than that, these are no super prospects. 
Washington-As usual. George Allen did not have many draft picks. Defensive back Tom Marvaso of Cincinnati may find himself a job. Two of Allen's selections are of interest Wayman Britt of Michigan and Quinn Buckner of Indiana, both are basketball players. Buckner did play some football at IU but Britt was soley a basketball man. 
NFCCentral 
Chicago. Top pick Dennis Lick should be a star, but the rest of the draft is questionable. UCLA's John Sciarra and Ohio State's Brian Baschnagel may both be shifted to defense. It remains to be seen whether they can make that transition. 
Detroit-The Lions got two super players in Grambling's defensive back James Hunter and Wyoming running back Larry Gaines. Tight end David Hill of Texas A & I is also excellent, but incumbent Charlie Sanders is of All-Pro caliber. 
Green Bay-The Packers' top two picks were both from Colorado, tackle Mark Koncar and defensive back Mike McCoy. (The Buffaloes had eleven players drafted; all in the first 10 rounds.) Pitt's Tom Perko could also make the grade for the Pack at linebacker. 
Minnesota • The Viking's top two choices are both named White, though there is no relation. James of Oklahoma State is a defensive end and Sammie is a wide receiver from Grambling. Sammie has been likened to Pittsburgh's Frank Lewis, another Grambling alumnus. 
NFCWest 
Atlanta-The Falcons drafted for running backs: Texas A & M's Bubba Bean and Kentucky's Sonny Collins. Both are smallish scatbacks and should help the Falcons offense. Defensive lineman Stan VArner of Brigham Young is another good choice. 
Los Angeles -After being massacred by the Cowboys in the playoffs, the Rams decided to draft for defense. Linebackers Kevin McLain of Colorado State and Ron McCartney of Tennessee should fit in, as should defensive back Pat Thomas ot Texas A & M. Jackson State's guard Jackie Slater may be a surprise. 
New Orleans -The Saints had an excellent draft. Running backs Chuck Muncie of California and Tony Galbreath could form an awesome backfield. Tinker Owens will become a target for Archie Manning's passes. For blocking the Saints picked Texas' Bob Simmons, Utah's Scott Parrish, and Notre Dame's Ed Bauer. Defensively, the scouts say Ken Downing of Missouri is too slow for a deep back, but he reminds me of Larry Wilson. 
San Francisco -Defensive backs Eddie Lewis of Kansas and Anthony Leonard of Virginia Union could start right away. Randy Cross, the UCLA guard, is a good additon. 
Expansion Teams 
Tampa Bay -Oklahoma's Selmon brothers give the Bucs one-half of a defensive line. Because this is an expansion team there will be many rookies that make this team. 
Seattle -Steve Niehaus of Notre Dame was the second pick in the overall draft. Here too there will be many 1st year players on the squad. 



