For graduate women 
Teamster's strike stalls townhouse completion 

the interior may be held up if the room, kitchen and a half-bath. the University reserves the right toBy Frank Tennant everything is based on the town­enter rooms without a search

Staff Reporter houses being done in time. strike persists. "Even if they were The kitchen facilities are all electric Jones said,"The initial comple­not finished until the first week in upstairs there are four private warrant for the purpose of main­August," she added, "we would study-bedrooms which Jones said taining security, discipline and the
The only barrier to a smooth tion date was June I. so women could move in for the summer still be in good shape." are essential to the graduate stu­orderly operations of an education­

move of graduate women to the Notre Dame Townhouses and un­session but the recently announced There is not much work to do in dent. A full bath is also located on al institution. 
dergraduate women back into Badin Teamster's strike could crimp thi­Badin before the undergraduates the second floor. Sr. Maria Garlock, rcctrcss of 
move back. The only major work The units are fully furnished. Badin, will be the rector of theio; late completion of the town­ngs." 
Other features are wall-to-wall townhouses. She described thehouses. Sr.· John Miriam Jones. All the materials have not been would be taking out two of the 

kitchens installed for graduate carpeting in every room and a attitude in Badin as "enthusiastic"
assistant to the Provost, said delivered. she noted. and work on 
women this year. telephone in the living room. towards moving to the new com· The Townhouses, located on There is an off-street paved and plcx. She believes the new Bullar Road one block from the lighted parking space adjacent to complex will increase social life 
Memorial Library. consist of 36 every unit. because off-campus grad student~ units. 
There are two rooms equipped can come and engage in activities 
Jones announced the Aquinas for the handicapped in the complex at the commons. Bookstore will be renovated and They arc connected to regular units Garlock said the compll'x will he become the Graduate Student Co­and share the living-dining room of safe security-wise. She pointed out mmons. She said the basement that unit. .Jones said these rooms the great advantage of student~ will be a laundromat and there will allow a person in a wheelchair to being able to park in front of their 
be apartments on the second tloor be totally independent. unit. for the rector and her assistant. The rector of the townhouses has 
"When undergraduate~ rl'lurn The tirst tloor of the commons two functions. according to Jones. to B;•din it will he thL· one girl·~ hall will have office space and a lounge First. she is the personal minister with a good balance lwtWL'L'Il the 
area. like a graduate student's to the residents and second. an classL'S," Jone~ stated. Thi~ will union. The Quonset hut behind the apartment manager. Although he accomplished by setting a~id<' bookstore will also be renovated to they arc independent units, .lonLs 40 places for freshman and control· 
provide space for meeting rooms believes there will be interaction ling the number of each cia~~ in the and social gatherings. "The between the students. She sees the hall. Commons will be a center for rector as "a catalyst in bringing "All girls who moved to Lewis residents of the townhouses and all people together." 
from Badin will have a room. if they graduate students." Jones said. The townhouses will not be run want. in Badin." she assured. She Four students will live in each 
like dorms. There will be no is not certain about those who two-story townhouse. The first parietals. according to Jones. But moved to other halls from Badin an tloor has a living room. dining as with on-campus resident halls, (continued on page 2) 


e 
server 
university of notre dame st. mary's college
Vol. X, No. 110 
Wednesday, March 31, 197& 
Ford's campaign manager resigns to avoid controversy over ski inquiry 
WASHINGTON (AP) --Howard your best interest, nor in the amid the controversy over the ski 
H. "Bo"Call-.wavended his troubl­interest of the campaign commit­area expansion, which would be on ed tenure as President Ford's tee, for me to continue," he wrote government land. campaign manager yesterday. Ford. He said in a telephone interview Political handyman Rogers C. B. Callaway also told the President he decided to quit when the Justice Morton was appointed to succeed "your nomination is virtually as­Department advised the White him. sured." House it would take up to two 
Ford announced the change in weeks longer for it to complete an campaign management, saying Reluctant acceptance FBI inquiry into the ski resort Callaway resigned "in his typically matter. unselfish way" to avoid any cloud Ford said he accepted the resig· "You can't subject a campaign to of controversy while the govern­nation reluctantly. But Callawa) that..." he said. ment investigates his role in push­said Richard B. Cheney.thc White Callaway said he is returning to 
Fortune in chain letter? 
ing for expansion of a Colorado ski House chief of staff. had wanted it Atlanta and will have no further resort he owns. about lO days ago. Callaway said role in the Ford campaign. 
by Matt Kane After making an investment ofCallaway said in an interview he he had asked then for more time to Morton, 61, is a former Mary­and $13.13, which includes a fifty-centquit rather than subject the cam­exonerate himself. He said he land congressman and Republican Barbara Breitenstein service charge per money orderpaign to rumor and innuendo stepped aside when it became clear national chairman who held two Staff Reporters and a thirteen-cent stamp. theduring the Justic Department in­the investigation would not be Cabinet positions before joining purchaser attempts to sell the two"It's against Indiana law," St.
quiry. concluded quickly. Ford's staff in January with the letters and money orders to contin­Joseph County Assistant Prosecu­''I'm confident there will be The resignation is effective Fri­title of counselor to the President, 
ue the chain. When the purchas­tor Edward Chapleau stated. "but
complete exoneration," Callaway day, but Callaway left the cam­and the job of resident politician at er's name comes to the top of thethe attitude of this office is that we!.aid. paign more than two weeks ago, the White House. 
list, he will receive, theoretically,will only take action if complaints
Ford said the same thing. "I suspended at his own request. 
$6000 from other purchasers.
are made."

know very deeply in my own heart Callaway said he did not believe Callaway controversial Although they have not yet
that Bo Callaway is an absolutely the controversy had hurt Ford's What Chapleau is referring to is honest person who would not campaign against Republican chal­Callaway, 49, had been a contro­a chain letter now circulating on the rcecived their $6000. the two originators do not expect to. They
undertake anything improper." he lenger Ronald Reagan. versial campaigner almost from the St. Mary's and Notre Dame cam­will be satisfied with four or fiveadded. The shakeup had been expected. day he took the job, July 18. 1975. puses. The letter, from which hundred dollars. they said.
Callaway submitted his letter of Callaway, a Georgia textile heir He had suggested Vice-President purchasers are supposed to make resignation Monday. "In view of who had served as Secretary of the Nelson A. Rockefeller was a politi-money. was brought to Notre Dame Although there arc laws in recent publicity. I do not feel it is in Army, was suspended March 13 (continued on page 7) from Minnesota a week and a half Indiana against chain lcttero;, the 
ago by two Pangborn hall resi­county prosecutor will not take dents. action unless complaints arc madl'. Complaints are unlikely. according
One of the originators has made $30 from the letter. The other. who to Prosecutor Chapleau. hcraust.' has only received $6, said. "We ''the complainers who have lo~t didn't pay much attention to the 
money arc violating thl' law a~ letter when we tirst heard about it 
much as the person who sold it to over break, but towards the end we 
them and ju~t as liab!l' to prosl'L'U· heard how much money other 
lion." people were making from it. So we Dean of Students James Hocnwr bought in on it," he explained. will not get involved, either. "If The chain letter, which is bought people get involved in the scheme, for $6, contains instructions and a it's their business." he said. list of the names and addreS!ics of Hocmer added that laws concern­II persons who have bought it ing chain letters arc to protect poor previously. With the letter is a people. not affluent college stu· money order made out and to be dents who can afford the loss. mailed to the person at the top of The Postal Service cannot do the list. 
anything about the letter, because 
Two copies of the letter arc it is not being sent through the made, removing the top name and mail. If it were, it would be placing the buyer's name and considered a lottery. according to mailing address at the bottom of Bro. Thomas Balaz. University Post the list. Two three-dollar money Office postmaster. orders made payable to the next "My interpretation of the law," person on the list arc purchased Balaz said. "is if someone is Practicing for the real thing, Army ROTC 
from the post office to accompany promised something in return from students go out on maneuvers in the woods 
the copies. (continued on page 7) 


the observer Wednesday, March 31, 1976 
----News Briefs--........ 
I=============================International Calm shattered in Israel 
NAZARETH Israel--Security forces shot and killed five rioting Israeli 
Arabs yesterday as violent clashes shattered years of calm between 
Israel's three million Jews and 500,000 Arabs. 
Bomb scare forces evacuation 
MOSCOW--The American Embassy was evacuated for the second time in a week yesterday because of a bomb !>care. No bomb was found either time. 

Brink's truck hijacked 
t~ONTREAL--A Brink's armored truck carrying more than $1 million was hijacked in Montreal's financial district yesterday by thieves armed with anti-aircraft guns, authorities said. 


====:::::::::::===:::::::::::=========:::::::::::=====National 
Refugee named good citizen 
SAN FRANCISCO--A Vietnamese refugee who chased and captured a man later convicted of murder is to receive the San Francisco Police Department's "good citizen's" award. 
Nuclear test site inspections 
WASHINGTON--Soviet and American negotiators, meeting in have reached basic agreement on the need for on-site inspection of each country's nuclear test sites. a high administration official said yesterday. The accord would, for the first time, allow one country to check the other's nuclear facilitiies to see that treay provisions are not being violated. 

Efforts intensified to avert strike 
ARLINGTON HEIGHTS, 111.--Top federal labor officials intensified efforts yesterday for a "peaceful, reasonable and responsible settlement" before a national trucking contract expires. However, ··a lot of negotiatin'' is ahead before a threatened deadline of midnight tonight. they said. 
~-On Campus Toda~/_. 
12:15 pm --seminar, "interferon, virus and cell: an intimate look at a love-hate relationship" by dr. edward simon, dept. of biology science, purdue university, rm 278 galvin auditorium 
3:25 pm --lecture, "water pollution abatement with recovery of organics" by chester r. fox, fluid process chemicals dept., rohm and haas co., philadelphia, rm 269 chemical engineering bldg 
3:30 pm --seminar, "the generation of I itt at low forward speeds" by dr. barnes w. mccormick, chairman, aerospace engineering, penn state university, rm 303 engineering bldg 
7:30pm --folk dancing, free instruction, Iafortune ballroom 
8 pm & --film, "magnificent ambersons," engineering audi­10 pm torium, tickets $1 
--lenten talk "sin and a forgiving god," an
10 pm introduction to the new rite of penance by fr. james 
t. burtchaell, mass follows, morrissey chapel 
12 am --album hour, tonight's featured album--phoebe snow: "second childhood," wsnd 640 am 
12:15 am --nocturne night flight, the best in progressive rock, jazz and blues, tonight's host: tom paulius, wsnd 
88.9 fm 

Primary timing aids 



New York democrats 
Brings total to eleven 



New internships available 
Placement Director Richard Wil­lemin announced that four addit­ional federal summer internships have been received. 
These internships bring the total of the University up to eleven. "We are honored to have received this many," Willemin said. "Several universities receive only one or two.'' 
Requirements for the internships include United States citizenship and the completion of at least 60 semester hours by June, 1976. Willemin stressed that all appli­cants should be in superior stand­ing in their respective colleges. All positions are located in Washing­ton, D.C. 
One internship is offered by the Department of the Interior's Bur­eau of Land Management. It is designed for students majoring in political science, history, sociology or American Studies interested in working in public administration. 
Another internship is designed for students majoring in civil engineering. It is being offered by the Federal Railroad Administra­tion under the Secretary of ~rans­portation. No job description has been released at this time Willemin pointed out. Interns usually work with department heads or division directors during the summer prog­ram, he noted. 
The Labor Department is offer­ing a third internship in its office of 
Graduate housing not finished 
(continued from page I) Pat Tack. Lewis Hall President, said there will be no governmental problems. "Since two-thirds of Badin is coming from Lewis. we are electing the presi­dent and vice-president from Lewis and the other positions will be filled when Badin is complete," she said. 

(*The Observerl 
Night Editor:  Marti  "Penn­ 
sylvania" Hogan  
Ass't  Night  Editor:  Debbie  
Dahrling  

Layout Staff: Leigh Tunakan, Julie Pel Iettiere, Frank Kebe, 
H. Brophy and visiting munchkins Day Editor: Marianne Schulte Copy Reader: Barbara Breit­enstein, Kathy Nolan Editorials: J. Commyn Twit Features: Tim O'Reilly, W.S. Nichols Sports: Ray O'Brien Typists: Mel Celeste, Hank Van Dyke, Karen Hinks J
l Night Controller: David Rus! 
NEW YORK (AP) --Because of good timing and a new law, Democratic voters in New York State next Tuesday will get their first chance to have a significant say in their party's presidential nomination. 
The New York primary, which for decades was overshadowed if not outright ignored, comes now at a major turning point in the race for the White House. It is important and perhaps crucial to the chances of two major contenders. 
As usual, the presidential candi­dates themselves are not on the ballot in New York. But for the first time, candidates for convention delegates will be identified with the presidential candidates they sup­port. 
For Sen. Henry M. Jackson of Washington, New York offers his best shot at a convincing win in a major state. With his appeal to old-line Democrats, labor and the Jewish vote, Jackson looks on New York as a good opportunity to demonstrate his appeal to the New Deal coalition on which the Demo­crats have always depended for national victories. 

For Rep. Morris Udall of Arizo­na, New York and the same-day Wisconsin primaries offer a make­or-break opportunity to test his claim to leadership of the progres­sive wing of the party. In the judgement of many politicians, Udall needs to finish a strong second. 
Former Georgia Gov. Jimmy Carter seems to regard New York as a "can't lose" situation. He has not made a major effort here and has deliberately downplayed his own chances. If he comes close to or defeats Udall in putatively liberal New York, he may eliminate the Arizonian and turn the rest of the primary battles into a choice among himself, Jackson and a convention deadlock. 
Deciding who is the real winner in New York won't be easy because of the problem of counting and making sense of the vote. The vote-counting process is saddled with procedural problems left over from the days when the New York primary was one of the oddballs of the nation's political system. 
The Observer is published Monday ltlrough Friday and ~M*!kly during ltle surrmer session, except during ltle exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by ltle students of ltle Univ. of Notre Darre and St. Mal'y's College. SubscTiptions may be purdlased for $18 ($10 per semester} froTI The Observer, Box Q, Notre Darre, Indiana 46556. Serond Class postage paid, Notre Darre, IN 46556. 
Operating Personnel Services. The job assigns the intern to the major functional areas of personnel work such as classification, employment and staffing. Business, psychology and social science majors are desired, but other majors will be considered if interest in personnel is shown. 
The last internship is available with the U.S. Government Printing Office. English and journalism majors will be considered for this position. It will involve research­ing, reviewing and analyzing legal materials. In additions, interns will aid the General Counsel in publish­
ing  a  manual  concerning  certain  
legal questions.  
All  interested  students  should  

complete applications by Fri., April 
2. Applications and other forms can be obtained from Willemin or Jean Schell at the Placement Bureau Office, Room 213 in the Adminis­tration Building. 

REPEATED BY SPECIAL REQUEST 
a lenten talk on SIN AND A FORGIVING GOD 
FR. JIM BURTCHAELL, CSC MORRISSEY HALL CHAPEL WEDNESDAY, MARCH 31 10 P.M. 
celebration of mass following the talk and discussion 
NEED A JOB NEXT YEAR? 
The Observer is looking for 

ad salesmen 
Earnings on a commission basis great potential. Must have use of a car. 
o 
Q 

FOR INTERVIEW CALL MIKE MILLER 

AT 7471 OR 288-0088 
Business Majors: Management positions available 
The U. S. Navy has a limited nurber of m~nngement positions available to Cjunlific.d husinpss r.l<J.jors. The }~nvv Supply Corps is responsfhle for all staff phases nf naval lo~istics. As a Navy Supply Corps officer, yon'll develop and practice modern manarement techniques while serving in a challenging 

and  exciting environment.  If you want  a  p0sition with  
authority,  responsibility  and  accountability,  the  Navy's  
Supply Corps  hns  i.t  :tll.  Tc  apply,  contac-t  

Lt. Bill Hughes (312) 657-2169/2170 Call Collect 
What you do now determines whether you'll follow or whether you'll lead. 
Wednesday, March 31, 1976 the observer 3
Communications unsatisfactory
I 
HPC seeks 'open line' with student government 


By Paul Waller Coordinator usually serves as its Sunday, April 4 at midnight is Staff Reporter chairman. All halls were urged to the deadline for applications for the sponsor chariot race, tug of war, position of HPC representative to 
Student Body President Mike and decathlon teams. Greg t~e Student Life Council. Applica­Gassman and Vice-President Mike Wilks. An Tostal Committee mem­twns should be made to Elton Casey are to periodically attend the ber announced that anyone inter­Johnson. 
Hall President's Council(HPC) ested in being a scorekeeper. Farley Hall won the f{ocknc meetings next year in an effort to timekeeper, or judge in the decath­award for excellence in hall activi­stay in contact with the hall lon should contact him. ties for the month of February. 
presidents, it was decided last night at the HPC meeting held in Walsh Hall. 
COLLEGIATE JAZZ 
Gassman and Casey, attending at the invitation of the HPC, 
FESTIVAL 
discussed with council members 
the problem of the Student Gover­
STEPAN CENTER 
nment keeping an open line of 
communication with the HPC. 
FRIDAY APRIL 2 7:30 P.M. $3.00 
Since the HPC is independent of the Student government. the best 
SATURDAY 12:30 P.M. $2.00
way of keeping the two bodies in contact with each other is to have 
APRIL 3 7:00 P.M. $4.50 
the student-body president and vice-president attend at least one 
All SESSION PASS $6.00 
HPC meeting per month. In this way. they could be informed of any activities or problems which the Council might have. The Council suggested that the Director of the Student Union might also attend meetings on a regular basis. 
Elton Johnson, HPC Chairman. announced that the HPC Executive Coordinator will serve on the SBP Cabin<?! next year in place of the HPC Chairman as in previous years. All hall presidents will also by Mike VUianl the possible termination of the 
be on the Student Body Congress
Staff Reporter department of graduate studies in 
which Gassman and Casey hope to 
Education. 
organize next year.
The Academic Council received Dr. Isabel Charles, Dean of the ~wo issues of importance during 
In other business, the Council
College of Arts and Letters, was inMonday's meeting. 
pointed out that An Tostal is
favor of the department's discon·The first concerned an Executive 
sponsored and financed by the
tinuance and said, "Several yearsCommittee proposal to establish a 
HPC and that the HPC Executive
of effort to reorganize the graduatestanding committee of the Academ­department of Education and workic Council on the Academic Manu­with the faculty on such mattersal. This proposal was passed didn't work out. Conflicts ofunanimously. 

interest within the departmentThe standing committee's pur­further added to insurmountable pose is three-fold: to receive and differences."
consider all proposals for manual changes together with recommen-In favor of maintaining the dations, to keep the manual intern-department is Professor James ally consistent with Councillegisla-Michael Lee of the department of tion. and to be appointed by the Education. He was unavailable for Executive Committee to maintain a comment. continuous membership. Following almost two hours of 
Dr. Robert Gordon. vice-presi-debate, a motion was given to dent for Advanced Studies, com-decide on whether or not to vote on mcnted, "In the past, proposals for this issue. It was defeated by a Academic Manual changes were vote of 27-22. This indicated that brought directly to the Executive more discussion on the issue was Committee. Now, however, with desired by the Council before the existence of this new standing reaching a decision. committee. such proposals will be Further discussions will continue given more specialized attention." at the next Academic Council 
The second issue discussed was meeting in two weeks. 
~................... 
• ATTENTION : : ATTENTION!!!! : 
: APPLICATIONS NOW AVAILABLE : + for + 
Scholarships t
•• * * •
•:. Loans * Grants * Jobs i• 
(renewable or new) 
Note: Deadlines for filling • 
: APRIL 15, 1976 : 
+ Parents' Confidential Statement t : MAY 1 , 1976 : : Application for Aid : 
t CONTACT: t : OFFICE OF FINANCIAL AID :.
+ 
Room Ill-Administration Bldg. 

+ 
University of Notre Dame : 


~...............~···· 
PRE-ADVANCE REGISTRATION PROGRAM 
A-e-advance registration programs will be oonducted for freshrren in all college program areas on WEDNESDAY, MARCH 31 at 7:00P.M. 
At eadl program, corrplete inforrn:rtion will be given on the advance registration procedures and on the sophorrore year and its relationship to the degree rurrirulum. At sorre of the programs there will be mixers with the faculty and upperclass students, as ~II as tours of the facilities. 
The rreeting places for the programs, according to college 
program, are as follows: 

Arts and Letters College A'Ogral'f!S Call, induding AL Preprofessional) 
Washington Hall 

Business Adrrinstration College A'Ogram 
Hayes-Healy Center, Room 122 (A through G at 7:00 P.M., H through 0 at 8:00P.M., 
P through Z at 9:00 P.M.) 

Engineering College Augrams 
Aerospace & Mechanical Engineering Bldg., Rooms 301, 302, 303 
Architecture Architecture Bldg., Room 201 Chemical Radiation Lab., Conference Room Civil Engineering Bldg., Room 205 Electrical Engineering Bldg., Room 212 Mechanical Engineering Engineering Bldg., Rooms 301, 302, 303 Metallurgical . Engineering Bldg., Room 5 
Engineering Science Engineering Bldg., Room 22 
Sdence College A'Ograms 
Biology Galvin Ute Science Auditorium, Room 278 Chemistry Nieuwtand Science Hall, Room 343 Earth Sciences Earth Science Bldg., Room 101 
Mathematics 

Corrputer-Mathematics Bldg., Room 226 Microbiology Galvin Ufe Science Hall, Room 105 Alysics 
Nieuwtand Science Hall, Room 327 A-eprofessional (Science only) 
Center for Continuing Education, Auditorium 
All FRESHMEN ARE REQUIRED TO ATTEND 
THE PROGRAM OF THE COLLEGE OR DEPARTMENT 
THEY INTEND TO ENTER IN THE SOPHOMORE YEAR. 
*1t~d.Q~,~~rver
Founded November 3, 1966 The Observer 1s published by students of the University of Notre Dame and EDITORIAL BOARD St Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the poliCies of either Thomas O'Neil l:'ditor-in-Chief 1nst1tut1on The news 1s reported as accurately and obJeCtively as possible D.ln Sanchez Managing Editor 
E'dltonals represent the opinion or a maJOrity ot the Ldltonal Board. .G H Executive Editor Commentanes are the v1ews of 1ndividual editors. Opin1ons, cartoons and Vrl~g h~ngs Executive Editor rt>gular columns express the views of their adutlhors. Column spacd ;s P:t Hu:ni/i~ Editorial Editor 
availahle_to all members of thfe community,_ an etters are encourage o Bob Madt>r Executive News Editor promotP the free express1on o vary1ng opinions on campus. Maun•en Flynn Campus Editor Marti Hogan St Mary's Editor Ed•torials _ Don Reimer Copy Editor
281 1715

~. '\\' 28 l-8bb1 Bus1ness 283-7471 
Tim O'Reiley Features Ed1tor 1-rpd Herbst Sports Editor Advertising Manager Tom Whelan Marv Egan Contributing Editor
llLhlll~'" Manager Tom Modgl1n 

Wednesday, March 31, 1976 
Very Funny 
The women of St. Mary's have made a letter to the Observer telling people to joke of their student government. Admit­abstain. Not only did they call for a vote of tedly it is a funny joke (though perhaps the uninterest, they were too uninterested to humor has been worn a bit thin by stand up and be counted as uninterested. repetition). But it has a darker side as lincoln's remark that "They have no well: it has caught St. Mary's in a vicious right to criticize who have no heart to circle of apathy and inaction. help'' applies to these non-voters and 
Everybody had a good laugh over lunch abstainers: having done nothing to when they read about a woman who was improve Student Government they have no the only one to run for president and yet right to criticize it--or to criticize the few 
came in second--behind apathy. There she people like Bilek who are active. 
was, beaming brightly about being swept No doubt the SMC administrators had ainto office by a tidal wave of support from good laugh over the election too. No doubtless than 9 percent of the student body, they will keep laughing when Bilek walks while nearly 90 percent of the students into their office and claims she is speaking could not find the interest or energy to for the whole concerned student body. Hcheck "yes" or "no." 
the last three repetitions of the joke did not It was even funnier to read the excuses entirely destroy the Student Government's as to why students did not bother to vote: credibility in the Administration's eyes,"I don't like the fact that only one ticket is this farce should finish the job.
running"; "I don't like what Student 
Government has been doing." Perhaps The students' sense of humor has got these students are just playing along with them into a vicious circle. Since almost no the joke. Or perhaps it never occurred to one supports their government, it can do 
them that they could have opposed Bilek if very little. Since it does very little, few they do not like the way things are. The people support it. And with almost no one height of absurdity was reached by the supporting it, the cycle begins again. anonymous women who put up posters and The joke is funny. But why do they keep 
sent an unsigned (and hence unprintable) playing it on themselves? 
---P.O. Box Q 
their dorm. If Security is busy I think that what is of great 
enough escorting maybe then ad­importance in this issue which Ms. 
mission policy for cars will be Moore has raised is the fact thatthe Gates changed. 
Open 

students who want to live off Students should be granted 15 campus must realize that they have Dear Editor: 
minute campus passes any time a responsibility--to the College, if Kathy Mercer's letter of March pick up or leave off women at their no one else--to plan their move 24... Burtchaell as Porter", pointed I such
dorms. do not believe a sufficiently ahead of time so as not out only one of the ridiculous change in policy will cause traffic to violate the established housingpolicies of Notre Dame s~curity at jams on the main quad every 
selection procedures.
the main gate in the evemngs. The Friday and Saturday night. ln response to Peggy's accusa­current policy of access to campus 
tions to the contrary. I can assure
George McLaughlin

for student automobiles is unfair you that no one is more aware of and potentially dangerous, partic­
"student concerns" than the office 
ularly to the women of Notre Dame. 

which handles housing situations. 
I became aware of the situation If by "consideration" Peggy means when I was denied a campus pass Show to suggest that students. on a to pick U1) my date for a hall form~\. 

whim, should be allowed to break 
Mv hall had failed to make spectal Consideration agreements (legally
their room 
ad-vance arrangements with Art binding contracts which clearlyPears. I called security that night to Dear Editor: 

state that they hold for an entire attempt to make the necessary I would like to respond to Peggy academic year) because they have arrangements at the last minute 
Moore's "warning" to St. Mary's the "second semester blahs". and but there was no one with enough Juniors who wish to live off campus move off campus without regard for authority available to authorize my next year and to the College, lest St. Mary's, i.e. the institution, and passage through the sacred gate. they treat these students badly and its needs, then I think she is 
A policy that is potentially more thereby forfeit their monetary sup-equally inconsiderate. dangerous to the women of Notre port in years to come. 
Leslie Wilson, SMC '76 Dame is that a girl who is dropped off at campus by friends after dark must walk back to her dorm because campus passes are not granted after 6:00 pm except for a medical emergency. It is not right for security to make a girl walk, not only to the North Quad, or Lewis Hall. down the unlighted walkway beside Sacred Heart Church, but to any dorm after dark. 
As a protest of this ridiculous 
policy of granting campus passes 
after 6:00 pm, all the Notre Dame 
women that have to walk from the 
circle, whether coming from an off 
campus friend's house at 9:00 pm 
or Niekies on Thursday night at 
3:00am should go to the mam gate 
and demand a personal escort to 

DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
ALL I A5.t: IS YO/JR. CO-cP~
l3!WlON. 'rtJU 577Ft& 7HE Y&UOW l&..AVE.s, AN/?IU. Q~ M 
SE& 70 YO/JR. BASIC ~ NtJTR.mONAL NEE{)S! )Yo SCE YOV .o SOON.' "'b 

-? SHVI?I?ER.!? 
0 = 
To Turn the Tide 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii... phil quadrini 
A year ago thirty-six hundred of you signed a petition demanding a re-investigation of the assassination of President Kennedy. I can remember many of you saying as you signed it, "It won't make a difference, but... " At the same time a single congressman, Henry Gonzalez (D-Texas), was in support of his resolution calling for a congressional investigation of the JFK, RFK, King, and Wallace shootings. Many of you sent letters to your congressmen urging their support, and some of you told me afterwords, "It won't make a difference, but. .. " 
But it has. A lot of other people have been writing letters and signing petitions, too, and at the moment 64 congressmen are co-sponsoring the resolution, including Morris Udall of Arizona, Don Riegle of Michigan, and approximately a third of the New York and California delegations. Eighteen other congressmen are supporting a resolution dealing specifically with the JFI<" assassination. Another major factor in this turnabout has been former N.Y. Congressman Allard K. Lowenstein. A close friend of the late Senator Robert F. Kennedy, he is one of the few people speaking out on pokitical assassinations that members of Congress and the news media will listen to. He is currently engaged in a court battle with the Los Angeles Police concerning the assassination of Robert Kennedy and has recently been joined by Vincent Bugliosi, the prosecutor who put Charles Manson and his Family behind bars, and author of Helter Skelter. 
There is another development that you should know about. All of you, except the freshmen, certainly remember Rusty Rhodes and his account of "Superbullet", the bullet that could go thru John Kennedy and John Connally, execute the up and in and the down and out, smash bone without a single scratch, et'-~ It you've read any of Lowenstein's magazine or newspaper articles on the RFK assassination then you know about a 22-caliber bullet that can best be described as "Superbullet's Smarter Brother". It was, according to the L.A. Police, able to go thru Senator Kennedy and into a ceiling panel, bounce off the floor above and come back down, bounce off the floor and strike a lady in the forehead. Well, these bullets must have cousins because Cornelia Wallace, the Governor's wife, writes in her soon to be published autobiography, Comella that Bremer's five bullets struck Gov. Wallace six times and hit four bystanders, with one bullet ending up in the asphalt. Not even Sirhan could do that. One has to wonder why the FBI never questioned this, but with the experience they gained in investigating the JFK and Dr. King assassinations they undoubted­ly knew what they were doing. 
As far as the Gonzalez Resolution is concerned, it remains stuck in the House Rules Committee in spite of its large sponsorship because many congressmen are afraid of it. You can help unstiek it by writing a letter to your congressman demanding that he eo-sponsor it. You see, there is one fear greater than the fear of the truth and that is the fear of not being re-elected. 
MS. CAt/Cl/5, rv& J.lfAI<I) YOt/'VE 
ALR!@HT;

ASK£/) lf1{!<£K.I-IARJ?JS 70 IAKJRK FO!< ZONK&I<? ME
MAY I 
IAJW'S

MS. SLAPE! I'{) AfJVI~A(j,4JNST IT. YOt/ Klf)f)!N6 '?
SPtAI<WITH 
(jO/NG
MS. CAIJCIJS, 

HE's A CJAN~IJS, SICK BOY-AN{) SAY, tiJHO IS 
ONH&RE?/
PL-EA5£. 7 

HE 8WJNf3S ATHOME tuHE/l$f.IE 7JIIS ANY«<AY?! 
\

' 
8£ lOOK£() \ 
AFTeR! ttz. 



~---------------------, 
~ednesday, March 31, 1976 the observer 
5 

Musk fans in South Bend have recently 
been discouraged by the lack of concerts. 
or by the appearance of high-decibel 
liascos like Sunday's Uriah Heep/Mon­
trosc affair. 
Last night at the Morris Civic, however, 
a small enthusiastic crowd was treated to 
an evening of music of Arlo Guthrie and his 
Massadlllsctts back-up band. Shenando­
ah. The performance did not rely upon 
brute clct·tronics or erotic stage rout'ines. 
hut rested upon the seasoned expertise of 
Arlo Guthrie's mellow music and satiric 
humor. 
Even though all the proceeds from 
Guthrie's current 26-date tour will be 
donated to the faltering Fred Harris 
campaign fund. there was no mention of 
llarri~' political stance. Instead. Arlo 
Guthrie maintained his usual blend of 
comcdv. ~atirc. and social commentary 
throughout the concert. Various songs 
lamented the plight of the workingman in 
America. the murder of an outspoken folk 
~inger in Chill'. and the activities of former 
Prc~itknt Nixon. 
This aspect of the concert was small in comparison to the rest of the numbers. Backed by the extremely competent Shen­andoah. liuthric presented a variety of ~ongs. ranging from a very melodic Hawaiian tllllL' to a hanjo-pickin' version of the Bcatll'~· "I've Just Seen a Face." The arr;mgcnll"nts were well constructed and tightly played. with notable performances 
------------------------------~ 

an innsbrucker in paris 
by all the musicians. The lead guitarist and drummer provided the right amount of texture which did not interfere with Guthrie's particular style of singing. The back-up vocals also contrasted with Guth­rie. and more importantly, were very much in tunc. Arlo added the final musical laver by his own work on piano, harmonica and guitar. 
After opening the set with a fast country-rocker. Guthrie alternated his own compositions with selections that high­lighted his down-home. folk singer atti­tude. Many of the numbers were humorous. narrative tales about his ex­ploits in ridiculous situations. like his experience in a fantasy motorcycle crash. In "Clam Song." Guthrie related the storv of the extinct Giant Clams of New England. coupled with a "clam shanty" called "Heubcn Clamzo." A cute rc~dcring of "Tumblin' Tumbleweeds" included the usc of comic cowboy hats and accents. This kind of act is ha~·d to perform without seeming unprofessional, hut Guthrie and the band had more than enough class to pull it off. 

a time to change 
Editor's Note: One of the most important recent developments in the Catholic Chu­rch is the introduction of a new Rite of Penance. This is the flrst of two articles about the subject. 
At Notre Dame and elsewhere this spring. the Catholic Church is pumping new life into an ailing sacrament--the Sacrament of Penance. 
In recent years the number of confession has dropped sharply here and around the world. Last fall. for example, 47 percent of Notre Dame freshmen said they go to confession "hardly ever or never." Probably the percentage is even higher for other classes. 
Now a ncv.· Rite of Penance has been introduced which may counterattack this trend. The rite, which is the prescribed form or procedure for receiving the sacrament. alrcadv is in effect in some parishes around tl~e nation and will be in general usc by next Ash Wednesday. 
Spccilicd in the new rite arc three different forms of sacramental reconcilia­tion. The first is what we know as private confession. The other two arc similar to communal penance services "''"L" .,.._ probably have taken part in here or at 

You arc an American in Paris; better yet, you arc a foreign student (ND-Innsbruck Program) in Paris for the first time, to get down on white wines, the Latin Quarter atmosphere and some art. But the Louvre closes in forty minutes. With luck and fast footwork a visit is almost possible. The pressure is on. J 
You sprint along the Seine towards Rue de Hival, puffing and fumbling-with city maps and tourist guides. A cold rain falls. It seems litting to curse the present predicament. To be in Paris and totally miss the creme de Ia crop of art galleries would be failure. negligence even--abroad programs claim that even semester vaca­tions can he educating. 
lnnsbruck students enjoy their role as tourists during vacations. But they cringe at certain tourist images--like the type who misses Vatican City and yet buys a rotating St. Peter's in gold, which plays "Arriva dcrei Roma". So after reconsideration, it's vaguely apparent that running through an art gallery is a tawdry deed. 
And, yet, you're quite taken with the idea of racing along Parisian streets in panting physical pursuit of art and beauty. The pursuit grows in importance and drama. Suddenly cxagcrrated dimensions like. symbolism. romance and adventure have been thrown in. This is a noble deed now and you jog across Pont Hoyal. hungering for a taste of artistic perfection. 
lsn't your sensitive should yearning to open itself up to universal messages and glimpses of the utmost in harmony? To be able to stand in reverence before the Mona Lisa and have your mind blown by her enigmatic smile--to be able to realize art--this is the lnnsbruck Program at its finest. You 'vc been rushing pcll-mcll and a Michelin Tourist Guide is ruthlessly trampled underfoot. There arc thirty minutes left until the Louvre closes. 
After map readings and tricky maneu­verings the Louvre is in sight. Anticipation of great things makes for a breathless frantic jog past the ticket counter. The museum entrance is stately, impressive, but long. Twenty minutes until closing. 
Well inside those hallowed halls, it is stifling and stuffed with Sunday afternoon tourists. The typical museum spectacle. a Japanese busload armed with fiercelooking camera equipment marches en masse from Giotto to Giotto. Keeping to block formation, they should make good time covering the pre-Renaissance. A French couple though, seems to effect an air of passionate curiosity and is seen lingering over a Titian portrait in the Italian School Hall. The man scrutinizes it from awkward angles as the woman obviously a Parisian gestures French-flamboyantly and whisper "magnitique" over and over again. It must he nice to be able to get down at the Louvre on a Sunday afternoon. 
Now inside, the question is where to start in a gallcrie of 400,000 entries. Because it's there your breeze through the Dutch School, casually aware of what hangs on the walls--Hembrandts and a few Hals. The pressure for time is making a mockery of art and fools of students let loose in Europe. Right now a tour looks pretty absurd. It seems as though insurmountable obstacles have placed themselves between you and esthetic bliss (an irrational state caused by too much running and psyching.) 
But then a small blue and white sign catches your eye. It says" Mona Lisa" and an arrow points to the depths of the building. Only divine intervention of the muses could have caused you to see this sign, modestly situated at the junction of the French and Italian Schools. It's clear now. sec the Mona Lisa. To sec just one masterpiece as compelling and memorable as this one supposedly is would be poetic consolation for botching up a Louvre visit. Motivation replaces defeat. The mind focuses out of urgent necessity, for somewhere among those thousands of paintings she hangs, gracefully reposed home. Though one of these includes general confession and absolution. the Church is still very reluctant to allow those in serious sin to receive absolution except by going individually to a priest. Nevertheless. this last form is an important development and may tell us something about the future of the sacrament. 
What arc the changes in going to confession'? There arc a few, which I will describe in the second of two articles. More importantly, however, the new rite suggests new ways to look at topics like sin, reconciliation and conversion. 
Sin: We arc moving away from the idea that sins arc "black marks on our souls," or simply the "bad things we've done." Sin is also the absence of something--the failure to love when that response is called for. How often we lack generosity toward our parents and friends, for example, and hence fail to give a truly Christian response to the opportunities placed before us! 
Furthermore, we see more clearly that sin is not only an individual and personal transgression of some law or precept. We are witnessing today a new awareness of the social dimension of sin--the common responsibility of all men and women for 
and admired by a~atie flynn 
With mere minutes left before closing. you slip between crowds from hall to hall on the look-out for Mona Lisa signs and Italian looking paintings. It's exciting but control is demanded, for one false turn and the last minutes could be spent lost in the Louvre maze instead of communing with beauty. One Italian hall is particularly dense with tourists. It looks like Da Vinci territory and in your zeal (it's closing time) it takes restraint to keep from bullying through. 
A semi-circle of noisy onlookers keeps you about tiftecn feet away from the mona Lisa. They had enclosed her in an air-tight, bullet-proof, shock-resistant glass casing. The bouncers come to usher you out just as your eyes are accustoming to the distortion and glare. She has been many things to many people throughout the years. 
To you, she was bent out of shape. What a pity. It could have been so sublime. 

: Think you can do better??: iJoin ObserverfeatUdrieys 
• ---=2±££9A"'-'-'-~~~""'\i.~~.'~~U£~A.RE?-=--IIIII ·.
• 9./././.J~~.~~~!-"\.\..'-'-'V 
•

:come to the Observeroffice : : Thursdaynightat11:00 : : 3rd floor LaFortune : 
• 
During their solo set. Shenandoah revealed their barroom background with several songs that obviouslv had been practiced in many bcer-drer;chcd halls. After two trucking tunes. the band played a country version of "Sweet Georgia Brown" followed by a series of satiric gospel parodies. Again, the band had plenty of showmanship which resulted in an ex­tremely effective stage presence. Arlo Guthrie returned to do a solo set comprised of gentle ballads and a few more funnv songs. His ability to capture the altcntio;, of the audience (especially the u~uall_v rude South Bend crowds) was as impressive a~ his skill in creating a laid-back atmosplwre. 
It was too bad that Arlo didn't attract a lar·ger showing hut the audience IlL'\ ntllc­less showed their appreciation for .111 excellent concert by howling (no ligllled matches) for an encore. Arlo L'omplic'd with lour ~ong~. including "Okil' fr11111 Muskogee." "This Land is Your Land" with additional lyric~ from his father. and "Amazing Grace." 
It is hard to lind fauit with sud1 a line show...cspecially when you ha\'L' notlnng to compare it to. 
fr. thomas mcnally 
conditions in society. 
Granted. social sins don't lit neatly into black-and-white categories. We may argue how personally responsible each one of us is for sinful structures whil"h oppress millions. Nevertheless. each one has to be sensitive to the social dimension of sin and examine his or her conscience on this score. 
Reconciliation: We have sinned. Thnc­forc. we seck reconciliation. The task of the sacrament is to help bring about a reconciliation between the human race and God, and among members of the human race. Reconciliation includes forgivcrll'ss of sins, of course, but goes far beyond this objective. Ultimately it means bccom ng one with Christ and with one another. 
Hence. reconciliation is the work o a lifetime. It is a life process which bcgms long before the time we receive r he sacrament and extends, hopefully, for l"ng aftPrwards. In fact, the new rite says t 'lat the sacrament docs not achieve its purp ·se if it fails to take root in our whole lives 11d move us to more fervent service of God nd neighbor. . By ourselves. all this is impossible. -ut the truth is that reconciliation is not sin· 1lv something that we do for ourselves; i is something that God docs for us, with ·ur cooperation. 
Conversion: Conversion is a rad• ·al transformation of one's life. The sa• ca­mcnt of Penance expresses the truth 1hat we arc called to alter our lives at the r"ot. 
Like reconciliation. conversion is an ongoing change of life--a life-long prOL'L'SS of growth from selfishness to generosity. After all, reconciliation is a kind of healing, and healing is always a slow process as anyone knows who has been laid low by sickness or operation. 
We cannot expect to be healed overnight from the alienation which separates us from God and from one another. Nevertheless. the new rite of Penance calls on us to be about the task of conversion. 
I think it true to say that the heart of the new rite of Penance lies in a deeper understanding of sin, conversion and reconciliation. But we also have to deal with some basic questions which surface when we talk about the new rite. or talk about Penance at all. Questions like--Why should I confess my sins to a priest? And. what should I confess? We'll consider these and other questions in the tina! article tomorrow. 

the observer Wednesday, March 31, 1976 
One credit offered for summer live-in program 
HJ MarJ Mungovan 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Students can visit social action organizations in major American cities this summer and receive course credit in Theology. Fr. Tom Stella, director of Volunteer Ser­vices. announced Tuesday. 
Volunteer Services will sponsor the one-credit course. "The Church 
•tnd the City" (Theology 375) in cooperation with the Catholic Com­mittee on Urban Ministry (CCUM). 
CCUM is a national network of l)\'er 3. 000 priests. sisters. brothers and laity working in prisons, hous­ing programs. drug clinics, hospit­al~. legislatures. and various school and community projects. CCUM i~ centered at Notre Dame under the d1airmanship of Msgr. John J. 
r~an. 
· · ~llldents will live-in for a 48­hour period with CCUM workers in 1 arinu~ cities. usually in the con­I L'llt or rectory of th.e parish they arL' visiting." Stella explained. "Egan's oftice will set up contacts bL'tll·cen the students and the CCl:M members they'll visit. pre­krablv in a citv near their own lwmctown." he added. 
Few course requirements 
Course requirements include at­tending an advance meeting this semester. the experience itself, a few short readings. keeping a journal. writing a short paper and attending de-briefing sessions ear­ly next semester. There are no prerequisites. 

·'The purpose of the experience is to acquaint students with the problems of the city and the people who are addressing themselves to their solutions-·hopefully discover­ing in them Christian motivation for social involvement,'' Stella commented. 
The course was offered twice before over the past two Christmas vacations, with approximately 30 participating each time. The idea originated with Prof. Jay Dolan and was developed by the Undergrad· uate Committee for Theology and Religious Studies, according to Stella. 
·'The experience really had an impact on those involved," Stella reflected. "Most were struck by the largeness and complexity of the problems of social injustice, but many were also struck by the hope of the people attempting to allevi­ate those problems." 
Sue Gretkowski, a junior from a small town in Pennsylvania. visited a convent in downto~·n Boston. "I found after only two davs that Boston was ve~y neighb-orhood­oriented. Topmost on everyone's mind was the busing issue, a serious threat to neighborhood unity." she reflected. She visited several social agencies, including a home for homeless men and a consumer protection agency. 
"As a result of the program. I have a job this summer at that consumer protection agency,'' she added. 
Donald C. Nokes, a senior from Grace Hall, stayed with Josephite Fathers, an order dedicated to black Catholics, in Washington and Baltimore. "I got a chance to sit in on criminal court proceedings. which showed me an example of the injustice in our legal system." 
Increased awareness 
"The experience gave me an increased awareness of the great needs of the black community and helped place the Catholic Church in perspective." he noted. 
Kitty Barrett and Kathy Peters, from Lewis Hall. visited New York City. living with sisters in a tenement house. 
"In just two days we were really bombarded.'' Barrett related. 
"We visited a drug center. a mental health clinic, a renovated housing site. a youth center. and a grammar school, and we talked to a social worker, a poverty lawyer. a visiting nurse and city planners.'' 
"I was most impressed by the hopelessness of the people fighting against the system. It seemed as though the system worked only for the rich." she commented. 
"I didn't think it was hopeless because many really were succeed­ing in fighting the bureaucracy," Peters countered. "For these 
workers, this was more than just a the elderly and various other job, it was total dedication. My activities. visit just confirmed my own desire 
to work in cities myself... "Volunteer Services encourages and promotes extracurricular in-The Office of Volunteer Services volvements in the area of social 
is in its fourth year. "It was service in the hope that students originally the brainchild of Fr. Don will become aware of persons and McNeil to center the activities of problems they would otherwise be students already involved in volun-oblivious to, coming from more teer work." Stella indicated. protected environments," Stella 
"Since then it has grown, especi-stated. ally since Community Services brought volunteer work into the "This course will hopefully ac-halls, .. he added. complish this goal in cities other 
Over 1800 Notre Dame and St. than South Bend," he added. Mary's students are involved in at Interested students should con-least 25 organizations, tutoring. tact the Office of Volunteer Ser­working with the~ retarded, visiting vices in LaFortune by April 7. ~~~~oooc~~~~~~~~~oo~occca~ 
Pipes 
Papers 
'Etc. 

newstond and general store 113 w. monroe st. 
~I(~O!;~OQoc..,..,_,.,, ·o:;<Qo.'l>(~..)QOU""..r..r...e~ 

Marketing course offered for small business owners 
A short course for owners and managers of small to medium-sized businesses, "Marketing: Strate­gies for Success and Survival," has been scheduled for the Center for Continuing Education beginning April 20. 
The classes will run from 6:30 to 
8:30 on four consecutive Tuesdays followed by one-hour consultation periods. 
Two marketing faculty members. Robert Drevs and James Stock, will conduct the classes in the Hayes­Healy Center. They are sponsored b~· the Small Business Administra­tion in cooperation v.:ith the Center 

Tom McMahon General Agent 

Manny /wila Agent 

Karen Wentland Agent 

Diane Long Agent 

for Continuing Education. 
Class sessions will focus on an overview of marketing, consumer behavior, emerging trends in re­tailing, company images, and pro­duct, price and promotion strate­gies. Market segmentation and research, as well as distribution, operations, evaluations and expan­sion will be course themes. 
Persons wishing to participate in the course are asked to contact Dr. James Powell at the Center for Continuing Education, 7508. Cost 
of the course, including all material, is $75. 
I 'Tearafter year. 3 l 
I semester 'after 
semester. the 
College Master 
from Fidelity 
l :nion Life has 
ht.•cn the most 
atTcptt.'<l. most 
popular plan on 
t•ampust.'S aiJ 
on·r Anwrka. 
Find out win. 
Call the 
Fidelity l'nion 
(·(,llt.•gt•:\1astt.•r 
~·idd Associate 
m your art.•a: 
915 E. Cedar South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 

Howto flyhome in theface ofinflation. 
Flying home economically is simple when you take off on Allegheny. And take ad­vantage ofthe big choice of discount air travel plans. For instance: 
The Liberty Fare. 

You can go home and a lot ofother places besides, with unlimited air travel at one, low price. You get a choice of plans, too. 7 days for $135, 14 days for $155, or 21 days for $185. Good everywhere we fly, except Canada. Advance purchase required. 
Group 4 to 9 

Groups of4 to 9 save up to 20.% roundtrip between any ofour U.S. cities. Simply make reservations and pur­chase tickets 48 hours in adv~nce--and travel to­gether. Our Group 10 Plan saves larger groups up to 33-1/3.% roundtrip. 
Fares subject to change without notice. 
The Freedom Fare. It's brand new, offering up to 30% savings before June 1 and after September 15. Dur­ing the summer season, the discount is 20%. Freedom Fare seating is limited on each flight, so advance reserva­tions and pre-purchase of tickets are required. Good everywhere, except Canada. The Weekend Plan. Take offas early as 7 PM Friday--return as late as noon Monday and save up to 25.% roundtrip between our 
U.S. cities. Good anytime-­including holiday weekends with advance reservations and pre-purchase oftickets. 
It's your move. See your Travel Agent for complete details on our dis­count air travel plans. Or call Allegheny. We'll show you how to fly in the face ofinflation. 

------------------~--·-··_.,_·~· ·~·~..~··~··~·~~~------------------------~--~ 

_W_e_d_n_es_d_a.:_yc_,M-'_~a_rc::__h_:3:...:1.:_,...:.1.::...:97_:6:_____t h_g_ Q QS e r V~_!_ __ _7
'Cuckoo's Nest' dominates event 
-
Burns, 80, wins Best Supporting Actor award 
FOR RENT 

Summer Apartment. Furnished twoo bedroom, Air Conditiong, Shag Carpeting, dishwasher, ets., quiet & clean. Short walk to N.D. Rent Negotiable. Chris 277-0953 
Milliken Rentals 282-2089, 233-5833 House & apartments available for June or Sept. 

5 Room house, two bedrooms for rent fenced yard, gas furnace, garage, fire place near Notre Dame. 
1 block from St. Joseph Hospital. 
House for rent. 5 Bedrooms, furnished. Utilities paid by owner, located near campus $250.00 per month. Deposit lease, required. call 234 7925 anytime or 232 2088 
Summer houses and rooms for rent 
real close to campus. Furnished ridiculously reasonably. 233-2613 or 232 7263 
4,5,6. bedroom houses. Completely furnished. Extremely nice. Real close to campus. Sept. 1976 9 month lease 233-2613 or 232-7263 
Summer rentals 4 bedrooms 5 bedroom house. 1 bedroom apt. .. all furnished. Near N.D. very reasonable 234-2626 
For rent next school term 5 bed­rooms 2 baths all furnished . porch · off street parking. Near N.D. 9 month lease 234-2626 
NOTICES 

ND-SMC Council for the Retarded Dance tonight 7:30-10:00 pm. 
Greyhound bus to Chicago leaves from Main Circle at 5:45 every Friday. Call Tom at 8338 for further info. 
Linda's Letter, dissertations special­ists, typing at student rates 289-5193 
Set your own hours and income selling our line of handmade Indian Jewelry. Free details. Bluebird Manufacturing 524 Bryn Maur SE. Alburquerque, N.M. 87106 
Papers professionally and promptly typed. IBM Selectric II and comp­plete typing service. Call 277-2922 
Stereo Components 20percent 40 percent discount All quality name brands. RMS Audio 321 S. Main 288-1681 M-F 12:00-6:00 
Accurate, fast typing. Hours 8 AM to 8 PM Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746 
FOR SALE 

72' Fiat 124 Spider 287-3059 Ask for Bob 
TEAC 1600A Reel to Reel. $195 Call Chris 3485 
Early Spring Bargain! Scout 10-SPD Good coindition, $25, Call 7434 
Classified Ads 
LOST& FOUND 
Lost -Men's gold watch with balck face between Nickie'S and North Quad. Call Denis 1245 
Nellie Lawlor lost her puka shells near Campus View .. if found call 5432. 
LOST: two male Labrador Retrie­vors. One Black, other black with white chest. 6 months old. Recent surgery. Require medication. Reward offered. Call, 232-1557 or 283-3193 or 283-6157 
Lost: Pair of glasses, brown plastic frames. Tinted lenses, brown case. Call Doug 8858 
Lost: Set of keys on Friday, March 26, possibly in small foreign car coming back from Nickles. If found, please call Craig at 3336. 
PERSONALS 
Desperately need ride to Cleveland, Friday, Apr. 2, Call Kathy 7995 
Need ride to Pitt. April 2. Call Bob, 3665 
N.D. Jazz Band Warms up for 
C.J.F. Wed. Mar 31 at 9:00PM 
LOS ANGELES (AP) "When I got home last night, I had time to think about the whole thing. My main concern was that I didn't want to disappoint Jack." 
veorge Burns didn't disappoint Jack Benny, his best friend for SO years and the comedian originally scheduled to costar with Walter Matthau in "The Sunshine Boys." 
Benny died in December 1974 
I • 

the Oscar for the best supportmg actor at the Academy Awards on Monday night. ' 
Burns' victory' at the age of 80 was the most heart-warming event at the awards, d<;Jminated by "One Flew Over the ~uckoo's Nest.:• The United ArtifStS film won ftve major awards, including those for best picture of I975 and for stars Jack Nicholson and Louise Flet­
cher. 

gest night of my life," George Burns was in bed with a cold. But not for long. 
He was scheduled for a guest appearance on Mac Davis' televis­ion show and will also fulfill a Las Vegas date postponed because of the strike at major strip hotels. 
"It was really like a dream," said the comedian, whose career seemed doomed with the 1964 death of Gracie Allen, his wife and 
"It was really easy for me," said Burns. "I was supposed to be old, which I am. I was supposed to be a New Yorker, which I was. I was su pposed to have been in vaudeville, which is where I came from. 
"It came natural to me. l knew the rhythm of the lines, and I had a lot of help. When you're a comedian, you're standing up there alone with all those lines to remember. 
emy competition. Louise Fletcher, who retired for 10 years to be a wife and mother. scored foil-best actress and sent a message n sign language to her deaf-mute parents in Birmingham, Ala. 
Saul Zentz, who financed ''Cuck­oo's nest" with his own money. and Michael Douglas, who inherit­ed the project from his father, Kirk 

and the role fell to Burns, who won On the morning after the "big-33-year-long comedy partner. But he carried on as a single, intersper­sing his wry jokes and rapid-fire old-time songs with Puffs on the
ND money orders increase 
omnipresent cigar. When Benny died, Burns was too
as a result of chain letter 
broken up to speak at the funeral. Two months later he overcame his(wntinued from page 1) who had a chanf'C to buy and did 

grief and assumed the Benny role
not were skcptibl either because 
in "The Sunshine Boys." It was
thcv had bad experiences with 
his first movie since an MGM
cha.in letters bcf(lre or could not sec 
musical, "Honolulu," 37 years
how evervone could make money 
ago.

without someodc losing. Others 
could not find jwo buyers before 
huving in thcm~clvcs. 
Callaway resigns
Not even thtt originators com­pletely understand how $6000 (continued from page I)
wuld be made1 without someone 
cal liability for Ford. Two top
losing $11000. btlt they did not feel 
campaign aides quit last fall, 
~omething and doesn't get it through the mail. it is fraud. If it involve~ cham-e of some sort. it is a lottcn· and illegal. but only if it is ,l'nt ·through the mail." he cx­
plainnl. . . 
Bala1 ~u~pect~ the cham letter ts till' t·aust· of soml' increase in nwnt·v oniL-r sales. "Our normal ,ail-s· arc u... uallv 25 a da_v," he 
,aid. "l.atelv Ill: have been selling ftl'l' time~ ·that manv." Bala.! c~timated that H5 pcr~'l'nt of their 'all'~ arl' for S..l nHmev orders. 
The two ,ltldenb fr~Hll Minneso­ta ha~t· been rea~-.urcd by reports from tlll'ir horne state. The creator of the chain ktter. a school administrator in St. l'aul. said he ha-. depo-.ited $2700 in hi~ an·ount and i-. -.till rl'l'l'iving money ordl·r-.. Om· ''oman t'l'l'l'ived Q7 mone~· onil'r-. in one da.v. act·ording to the 'tudenh. 
"'I Ill' letter ~aid if a person has 
douhh." ont' stated. "to call up 
a person at the top of the list and 
check it out." 
Thev admit that the letter is not 
~elling as fast as it did at the 
beginning. because some people 
think it is either too late to make 
anv monev. do not understand it, or 
ar~· basic~lly skeptical. 
Some of the skeptics who bought 
a letter. one of the letter originators 
explained. "waited until they were 
sure it would work or had two 
people to buy their letter." Those thi.?V have cheatL·d anvone either. 
criticizing the way he was running,;1 don't fed bad· if someone the operation.
dol'sn't sell their letters," one said. 
Republican critics had urged he 
"I figure it is !heir fault. It isn't be ousted then, but Ford defended that hard to sci the letters. and if his performance. thcv lack the en/husiasm. I can't do At issue is Callaway's role in an~:thing about lit." seeking U.S. Forest Service ap­
proval to expand a ski resort atYet !>ome of the recent buyers Crested Butte, Colo., into 2,000arc lo~ing enthusiasm. One soph­additional acres of federally-ownedornot-e in Morrissey tried selling his land. The resort, like most of itshut found it diiTiL-ult. Another said competitors in the Rocky Moun­he did not have the time to rcallv tains, is on federal land and payspu-.h it. A St. Mar~··s student saicl royalties to the government.
~he did not full\· understand it and 
regretted gctti;1g involved. She While there has been no final 
hoped ~he could sell her two letters decision, the U.S. Forest Service 
and hrL·ak even. has reversed initial recommenda­
The two originators report that tions on the case and now favor the 
the letter has been ~prcad to other expansion Callaway sought. 
campu"·~ in the midwest. includ­Callaway said there was no 
ing Valparaiso, Michigan, Michi­pressure, no conflict of interest and 
g;lll State and Purdue. nothing wrong. 
Callaghan leads race 
LONDON AP--Forcign Secretary The 64 year-old foreign secretary
.lames Callaghan led the second defeated Employment Secretary round of balloting today for a new 
Michael Foot. 62. and Chancellor of 
prime minister and head of Britains the Exchequer Denis Healey, 58.
ruling Labor Party but failed to get The vote was Callaghan 141. Foot the clear majority needed to suc­
133 and Healey 38. A majority ofceed Harold Wilson. 
157 was needed to win.
Callaghan's strong showing in 
the vote by Labor members in Healey will drop out under party Parliament made him the clear rules. His votes are expected to 
favorite to win the decisive third go to Callaghan in the third and._____________(JUST•f•OR-TH.E R.EC•OR•D•A•HD-TH•E•R•EC•.•JO•I•HT•)•H il•es_____l 11111 11
ballot April 5. final round. "' 111 
1 
t' 

"Acting isn't really hard. You get to sit down. You don't have to remember all the lines. And you've got two great actors like Walter Matthau and Richard Ben­jamin standing at each side." 
Although Monday night's a­wards seemed less exciting than in previous years, the event offered a number of human interest stories: 
Jack Nicholson won as best actor after four previous losses in acad­
********************************~ 
*~Cinema 76 presents 8 & 10 pm. * 
i ~ ~ 
*
~ 

~ Engineering Aud. Admission $1 ~ ~********************************>­
THE BEATLES 
THE ~

TONITE ­
MAGNIFICENT j AMBERSONS ~ 
ORSON WELLES *~ 
Douglas, took Oscars as producers of the best picture. 
Milos Forman, who left Czechos­lovakia after the Russian invasion of 1968, collected the award for directing his second American film. Forman is separated from h is wife. His twin 11-year-old sons. who live I' ith their mother and whom he has not seen for five years, were reunited with him for the ceremonies. 

Looking for energetic people to Run for lnPirg's Board of Directors. 7 positions open. If interested pick up form at In Pirg Office and return by April 1. 
To the best rucking ruggers east of the M ississippi--"rots of ruck" this season. 
H. W rathalwray, 

S.O. 
B. •s out on bail and Johann ate her goobers. How's Tammy? 

K. 
Lee 



Hey girls, camping can be fun ...call Dirt 272-3816 
To the freshman SI\.,C girl who sat next to me on the midnight bus on the way back from the Bull Moose party and who lives on 2nd floor LeMans: I have to get in touch with you. Call George 1410 
RUGBY SHIRTS --GET THE SAME SHIRTS AS THE CHEERLEADERS IN BLUE&GOLD, GREEN&GOLD, AND RED&BLUE FOR !l.i·a.??. CALL DAVE 272-0948 
HAVING A PARTY? FOR THE LOWEST PRICES ON KEGS & CASES & FREE DELl+ VERY. Call dave 272-0948 
Happy Birthday, Butch! Mary,anne, Julie, Anne 

Chris Jaeger needs a date to the Stanford Formal Please call 8670 and make a date 
SUNDEF 9, Formerly of Angers, France (alnsi que Avrille, Monplaisir, Trelaze Et Les Ponts.De-Ce) is proud to an­nounce the engagement of a fellow Angevine, Mary Flack, to Bill Hammond. From all of us, congrat ulations and best wishes. 
Jaye, 
Happy 22. May you have another year of great salads. ·Nance, Booby, Crowlette, Dodo, 
Betho, Kerry 
ATTENTION: SOUTH QUAD RES+ 
!DENTS. SIN-HEALING-WHOLE­
NESS-INNER PEACE. Whatever happened to confession? A talk and reflection by Fr. Burtchaell, SIN AND A FORGIVING GOD. This Wednesday, March 31. 10:00 PM, Morrissey Chapet. .. liturgy will fol­low talk. All invited, South Quad Especially. 
NEED A RIDE 
HOME AT 
EASTER BREAK? 
GET ONE 
THROUGH 
The Observer 

AWAY WITH WORDS 
6 UNFORGETTABLE PERFORMANCES 
$ e-u. us MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
3
29 3
&:oo p.m. SATURDAY SUNDAY $ 75 lO:OO•p. m. 
APRIL 3•4 
$350 Perlorlllnces II 6, 8 &10 p. m. s:oo P· m. EACH IIIBHT AT ADVANCE MORRIS sox OFFICE -BOGGlE RECORos THE TICKETS ADVANCE TICKETS (SUSPEHDFD CORD) Elkhart and Goshen DOOR 


the observer Wednesday, March 31, 1976
8 

Gridders boast 'brains and brawn' 
by Ray O'Brien showed 24 ND products in the NFL, explained further, "If the people all possessing a diploma. It was knew the recruiting processes they also evident that this was a trend in wouldn't be surprised." Catholic universities as Boston The recruited players must have College was the third most success­the required amount of prerequis­ful school with nine of 11 former ites and possess a minimum of a

The Notre Dame football team is students (.833) in the NFL holding "C" average (along with other the national champion of academia. 

a sheepskin. The University of considerations). While offering
According to a recent article by a 

California had the second best statistics DeCicco stated, "Out of Cleveland sports writer, Hubert record with 10-of-12 (.833) gradu­30 players offered scholarshipsMizell, the myth of the "Dumb ated players. The Big Eight each year maybe three are margin­
Notre Dame football player" just is Conference had the worst showing al acceptances.'' He explained that not true. Notre Dame was praised 
of any league with a horrible .222 athletic and scholastic abilities are for its educational accomplish­
percentage (30 out of 135). The coordinated so that a player would ments with football players wl>o survey listed only colleges with at almost have to recieve a degree if 
have gone on to play professional 

least 10 veterans on NFL rosters. he met the eligibility requirements. f<lotball. One person responsible for this As the statistics indicate. this is 
This praise was initiated by 

success is the Athletic Counselor not true at all colleges. ~tatistics revealing the number of 
Michael DeCicco. DeCicco was Notre Dame has had five Rhodes prn football players with degrees proud of the published ~esults but Scholars in the past twenty years fnHn various colleges. commented reservedly, "I am up­(although none in the past decade). 
~ntrc Dame boasted a perfect 

set that anyone should believe it The Irish have been honored with rL'L·ord in the survey. The tindings could by imy other way.'' He 17 NCAA awards for scholar-athlet­
ic ability which is second only to the Air Force Academy (21 awarded). The last recipient was fencer Paul Angelo. Two grid stars, Pete Demmerle and Reggie Barnet, won 
-
the award the previous year.
*Observer 
DeCicco said that he tended to agree with many coaches' belief that academic performance is refle­cted in various ways on the field. More importantly, he emphasized 
that performance on the field should not influence the school­work of a player. It is the players that never make it to the pros that will need the diploma the most he 
Sports 
Captain O'Donnell relied upon to guide Notre Dame tennis team 
by Tom Powanda "High school tennis is so much become an accomplished player different from college tennis," such as Jimmy Connors, time, 
More known for its accomplish­states O'Donnell. He still plays dedication and hard all are needed. ments in sports during the fall and tennis fot the .saq~e reasons. Few ever become successful winter months, Notre Dame seems O'Donnell claims that tennis is pl<rying only part-time. destined to mediocrity during the giving him many friends from all O'Donnell does feel he owes alot spring season. Bad weather and over the country. His desire to to tennis. The game has provided the lack of funds for spring sports travel is also being satisfied as him with his philosophy for life. It can be given as excuses. Many, already he has traveled to Mary­may sound corny or foolish but however, do not believe this to be land and twice to California. tennis has given him more than just true in 1976. Mike O'Donnell is Tennis is the nucleus of his life. fun. It has tested his mental skills one of the disbelievers. For the past five years now and improved his character. 
O'Donnell is a senior and captain O'Donnell has spent the summer Although tennis is virtually a of this year's varsity tennis team. instructing at a tennis club just 
forgotten sport • at Notre Born and raised in Deerfield, Ill., west of Chicago. He plans to Dame, O'Donnell feels he owes alot he started playing tennis the continue his instructing and hopes to this University. Giving up summer before his freshman year to play in some small tournaments opportunities to receive scholar­in high school. "I had to struggle following graduation but will not ships to play tennis at such schools 
to make the team my first two make tennis his career. This fall, as Georgetown of Washington,years," says O'Donnell of his O'Donnell will attend the Universi­
D.C. and Trinity University in 
initial attempt at high school ty of Denver Law School to further Texas, O'Donnell chose Notre tennis. But his hard work and his education. 
Dame because of its high academic 
determination helped him to an O'Donnell has realized that ten­standing. Now on partial scholar­undefeated season in his senior nis is not a sport in which a player 
ship, he pays for the remaining year as he captured the Chicago can move from the back of the pack part of his tuition by giving tennis Catholic League title in singles and to the top echelon in a short period lessons in South Bend. 
doubles. That season O'Donnell of time. Very few players in college The only complaint that is regis­was also given the Lawless Award today can afford the time away tered by O'Donnell is that evenas the outstanding tennis athlete in from their studies to adequately small schools in this area award full 
a professional career. To 

tennis scholarships. Tennis is catching fire all over the country and it will only be a question of time before that fire strikes this University. The only bad part about it is that guys like Mike O'Donnell will not be around to share in the benefits. 
O'Donnell and the rest of the Notre Dame team will be looking to improve their 4-3 record with a home match against Western Michigan on Thursday followed by DePaul on Friday. Starting time for both matches is 2 p.m. 
Brownschidle cited as ND MVP 
Irish All-America hockey defen­seman Jack Brownschidle was tab­bed the team's Most Valuable Player at last night's hockey ban­quet. The 6' I", 187-pound junior from East Amherst, N.Y. scored 12 goals and 24 assists as the team's fifth leading scorer. Brownschidle has previously been named to the Denver Post AII-WCHA team. the Hockey Coaches All America squad and the WDAZ all-star team. 
Brownschidle was also named to co-captain the Irish next season. Brian Walsh, Notre Dame's lead­ing point getter with 65, will return for a second season as co-captain. 
Mike O'Donnell, senior captain of the tennis team, is hoping to lead the Irish netters to their best record in recent years. 
Mizell's Survey 
SOUTHEASTERN CONFEHENCE 
Players Degree Pet. 
Florida 
13 6 .462 
Aloboma 
11 s .455 
Georgia 
ll 5 .385 
Kentucky 
13 4 .Joa 
Tennessee 
IS 4 .266 
LSU 
10 1 .100 
lliG TEN CONFERENCE 
Iowa 
12 8 .667
Wisconsin 
11 7 .636
Purdue 
21 13 .619 

Mlchlg11n 25 .000
15 

Indiana 12 .583
7

Mich. Sl<~le 
17 7 .412
Illinois 
13 5 .385 

Ohio St&te 28 .359
10 
Minnesota 
20 6 .300 
BIG EIGHT CONFERENCE 
Missouri 
12 6 .500 

Nebr;,ska 27 
9 .333 
low& State 
13 4 .JC8 
Okl11homa 
18 3 .166
K&nsi!IS 
18 3 .166

Kansas Sl11te 
13 2 .1~
Color&do 
22 2 .090

Okl11homa State 
12 1 .083 
PACIFIC 8 CONFERENCE 
canfornla 
12 10 .833 
St~~nford 
16 8 .500 

Oregon 15 7 .466 Southern Cal AI 18 .439 UQA 24 9 .375 
W&shlni)IOO )4 5 .357 
SOUTHWEST CONFERENCE 
Houston 14 s 
.357 

Tex&s 13 2 
.1~ 
\ 

WESTERN ATHLETIC CONFEHENCE 
Ul11h Sl11te 13 8 .615 Arizona 11 .455
5 

Arlzon& Slllle­26 8 .308 Utoh 11 3 .274 
INDEPENDENTS AND OTHERS 
Notre Dllme 24 24 1.000 Boston College 11 9 .818 Penn Stole 28 17 .607 Florida Stole 13 7 .53a Tulsa 
13 7 .538 
Tenn. St11te 

19 10 .526 Jackson Sl&te 17 8 .471 Prairie VIew 
13 II .462 

Grambling 20 9 .450 Alcorn A&M 17 7 .412 Syracuse IS 6 .400 Miami (Fla.) 
17 6 .353 

Southern (La.) 17 6 .353 North Texes St. 10 3 .300 San Ole90 St. 28 8 .286 Tex&s Southern 15 3 .200 
Wilkerson to be all right 
PHILADELPHIA (AP)--"1 didn't· x-rays and did a full study. He's remember nothing until today, not alert and doing well. We will even that we won," said Indiana's probably discharge him Wednes­Bobby Wilkerson Tuesday from his day." 
hospital bed. Wilkerson of course, is thrilled 
The 21-year-old Wilkerson suf­with Indiana's 86-68 victory over fered a cerebral concussion only Michigan and the national title that two minutes and 43 seconds into came with the Hoosier's 32nd Monday night's Indiana-Michigan triumph in an unbeaten season. NCAA championship basketball ­
"Evervbodv else is home cele­
game. 

brating ·and-I'm here in theThe 6-foot-7 Wilkerson was still hospital," Wilkerson lamented. 
woosy after spending the night at "But it could have been worse,"Temple University Hospital. 
he said trying to console himself.
"I remember now (Tuesday) "I guess I'm very fortunate."
Coach (Bobby) Knight coming in Wilkerson said he's never beenlast night and telling me that we hurt before, "not enough to leave awon," Wilkerson said slowly. 
game."

Wilkerson's face is swollen and "I just wish I could have beenhe has a discoloring under one eye. 
there. Everybody worked so hard. IDr. Joseph Torg, head of Tem­worked with those cats all year. Itple's sports medical clinic, dis­doesn't seem to me as if we woncounted initial reports Monday night that Wilkerson suffered a 
because I wasn't there." Wilkerson said the whole inci­mild concussion. 
dent was hard for him to believe.
"It was severe," said Tor g. 
"I just don't remember," he"The boy was unconscious for six minutes. But he's ok now. We took repeated softly. 
noted. 

He presented statistics which showed that the varsity athletes average G.P.A. was very closetothe University average and the football team was no exception to the rule. Several teams' academic averages are higher than the total student body average. 
The stigma that most people have about football players or any athlete is unfounded with no basis at Notre Dame as the numbers prove. There are academically weak athletes just as there are academically weak non-athletes. The obsolete generalization that college football players are not intelligent has been disporved by these findings. 
Mizell closes his article by saying, "Notre Dame obviously works hard to make sure football players have every shot at hanging up a sheepskin. Notre Dame is a strong school academically and deserves a strong sis-boom-bah." The Fighting Irish can proudly claim they are a blend of brawn' and brains. 





