SMC votes in newSBP-SBVP 
by Pat Payne opmwns. One freshman stated, "I people running. I haven't liked Staff Reporter didn't even know the election was what's been done in the past--no­today." Another added, "I didn't thing." Another said, "I never "I abstained because I think 
vote because only one party was got around to it. I'm apathetic." 
more people should be running.'' 
running." Montesi commented, "I don't 
This was one sentiment express­
Last week signs were anony­know what their beef was. Nomi­

ed by a St. Mary's student in mously posted advising students to nations were March 4-11 and thev regard to the student body election abstain, saying that the election didn't put themselves up." · held yesterday in LeMans Hall. should be a democratic one and 
This is the third sucressive year
The ticket of Mary Lou Bilek, Cathy 
that others be given a-chance to that only one ticket has campaign-
Coyne and Mary Ann Stolze won, 
run. ed for student body elections. 
·carrying 142 votes. 

In response to the question of .loan McDermott, student bodyOf 246 votes cast, Bilek's ticket, whether student government is a president, remarked, "It th~·
was 
the only one on the ballot, collected 
rcpre~cntative voice of the student same last year. Only one part.\'

57.9 percent of the "yes" vote. body and worth continuing, Mc­
running has a lot to do with poor"No" votes amounted to 14.1 Dermott replied, "It does repre­voter turnout." percent. and 27.9 percent abstain­sent the voices of the students. If "This ticket is really strong,"ed. According to election rules, the 
people want something done, all she added. "the positiou~ demand 
must SO

winning ticket receive they have to do is call us.'' a lot of time aud respon~ihility, and 
percent of the yes vote plus one for Coyne emphasized, "Student many students don't have the a majority. 

government did a lot of important time." According to Mindie Montesi, 
things this year. the kids really Bilek noted, "I would have been election commissioner, "The elec­
worked. However, it was student more pleased to have had a greatertion wasn't even a close race. 

government's own fault that more number of student votes. We did Fifty-eight to 42 percent is a big positive results weren't made out best to let people know where margin. Many underclassmen 
known to the students.'' She then we stood.'· Bilek then asserted. ·"I probably abstained because they noted, "It's not used to its full still think student government is a 
didn't know the candidates and 

potential. Student government has vital force." were just doing their duty." an effect on you whether you know When asked why more peopleStudents, however, voiced other 
it or not." did not run for oftice, Bilek 
Bilek discussed the probability of observed, "I don't know why more initiating a student government didn't run. Everyone had the same newsletter. She stated "The news­opportunity to nominate them­letter will be the tirst step in the selves." process of making students more She then commented on poor aware of us, our function and what voter turnout. ''I'm not pleased 
we are doing for them." with the fact that only 250 people 
Bilek pointed out that a survey voted and that some abstained, but will be taken hopefully before there's nothing I can do about it. Easter to see what the students It's not in my realm to call another want and what kind of ideas they election." have regarding student govern­Bilek continued, "People didn't ment. "We have to move ahead," vote because only one ticket ran." she said. Coyne, candidate for vice-presi­
Stolze, candidate-elect for vice­dent for academic affairs, explain· president of student affairs, re­eel, "since no one ran against us 
marked, "I am very sorry about and voter turnout was not as good the small number of people voting. as it could have been, we have a lot 
umvers1fy of notre dome sf mory's college 

Vol. X, No. 109 Tuesday, March 30, 197& It shows we·need to get the interest of -work to do to get more people back into student government now, aware of student government." and I plan to give it a11 I have to "It affects every student," she 
Ricci appointed generate that interest.'' added. "People know there's a 
Other students not voting stated student government out there their reasons. One .student com­sqmewherc and we have to get mented, "I don't know any of the them aware of it."

Student Union director named 
by Valerie Zurblls Ricci's main goal for the coming into the position, Ricci replied, "I Exel·uth·c Editor year is to make the students more think anyone who has the job aware of the Student Union and its should be competent. A junior is Ken Ricci will be the next function. He plans to establish just as competent as a senior." 
Student Union director, it was more Student Union positions. Ricci applied for the position announced last night by Student "The Student Union has always because he felt there was a need for Union Director Tom Birsic and been a tight-knit organization and I tinancial control. "You have to hope to change its image," Ricci
Student Body president-elect Mike have someone in there to keep (}as~man. Ricri assumes his new financial controls on. I felt I was
said. duties April I. Ricri commented on the past just as competent as anyone else, The '>ophomorc accounting in­year. "I think Birsic and his and my financial background would tent is from Cleveland, Ohio and administration have come so far help," he said. 
~erved as assistant comptroller this from last year. They have improv­Birsic said, ''I think we had a year. He was the tinancial trouble­ed 1000 percent. Out goal will be to fine field of candidates and the one ~hooll'r and developed a budget to improve that." we picked was the best one." 
keep Student Union expenses When asked about his feelings Birsic was one of nine committee concerning a sophomore stepping members who elected the new
down. director. "The committee felt the Student Union was a blend be­
tween fiscal aspects and personali­ty skill, and we felt Kenn has the best qualifications," he said. 
''A Jot of new procedures were 

Hesburgh speaks on 
school's character 
initiated this year that can be and state or· non-sectarian private continued next year," he added. 
hv Marv Rathburn 
universities. Theology faculties Birsic cited the revamping of the · Stufr'Rcportcr 
and even buildings arc most often budget as the biggest change of the ~eparatcd from the university it­year.

""WL· have a long way to go. but selL Birsic said he received calls WL' owe it to oursl'lves to trv to He~burgh emphasized the im­claiming the election was unfair LTL'atL' a Catholic Univcrsitv." 'said portanrc of integrating theology from a few of the losing candidates. l/nivcrsitv l'resi,knt Rev·. Theo­
and philosophy departments in the ''We had a good year this year and dore Hesburgh in a speech last university. These departments, he I would hate to have a controversy night in the l.ihrary auditorium. 
said, "arc concerned with trans­at this point in time. I feel the 
The world's population passed the four billion mark this 

Ahout 70 graduate students and 
weekend. profe~sor~ heard Hesburgh's talk 
cendence and ask larger questions thing was handled as wc11 as it 
about human values and God and could be,'' emphasized Birsic. 
According to the computerized population clock at the 

on till' Catholic Character of the 
the universe." He indicated that "You can tell more about a 

Museum of Science and Industry, the population had climbed to lJ niversity. there are only two great Catholic candidates's character in accepting 
4,000,125,900 shortly before noon Sunday. At a growth rate of 

Sharing the stage with Hesburgh 
universities in the world today, defeat than in accepting a victory.'' 
about 2.2 per second, the clock would have hit the 4 billion mark 

were Professor James Danehy of Louvain and Notre Dame. "Every candidate was qualified, 
Saturday night.the Chemistry department, Profes­
Disagreeing with George Ber­and I hope they all decide to stay 

However, a museum spokesman said, "Nobody stuck around sor Carole Moore of History and nard Shaw's statement that "a with the Union next year," Birsic 
to watch it, and the night watchman evidently didn't care." 

two Ph.D. candidate~. Father Ro­
Catholir university is a contradic­said. 
Although figures from the Population Reference Bureau are ger McGrath and James Stewart. 

tion in terms," Hesburgh argued Gassman said that the election used to keep the ten-year-old clock as accurate as possible, the Hcsburgh cited the historical thatVatican llaffirmcd the universi­came out all right and he feels Ricci spokesman conceded there is some guesswork invovled. "It force'> of the Reformation and ty's right of free inquiry, free will be good for the job. 

could be right, and it could be off some," he said. "It's obvious 

French Revolution responsibleas thought and freedom to express "There is no reason for the 
that we get some poor-quality from countries such as China." 

for thl' disappearance of the origi­and discuss controversial views. "I controversy. I heard there were 
He added that it took from the dawn of mankind until 

nal Catholic universities. When cannot recall in my 31 years at some problems, but there should 
1850--little more than a century ago--for the Earth's populationuniver~ities were reestablished by 
Notre Dame a single violation of be no reason for it." Gassman to reach one billion, 80 years more to hit 2 billion, 31 years more the State, theology was relegated intellectual freedom," he remark­reiterated. 

to reach 3 billion and only 15 years more to make 4 billion. to seminaries. ed "The Student Government and 
The Washington-based population bureau estimates the EvL·n today, Hcsburgh thinks, Danchy, who is president of the Student Union will work together 
figure will be 5 billion in another 13 years and close to 7 billion there is an uneasy co-existence closely next year,'' Gassman pre­
by the end of the century.bl'tween departments of theology (continued on page 6) dicted. 




the observer Tuesday, March 30, 1976 
,_--News Briefs--­
t==============================lnternational Witch doctor succeeds 
KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia--Officials here claim shining success for the witch doctor they hired to keep away the rain from the Malaysian Open Golf Championship. Torrential rains had drenched the city four previous days, but none fell on the golf course Sunday until play had ended. 
No money for Sadat 
BONN West Germany--West German officials said yesterday that Egypt''s President Anwar Sadat will not get the massive financial aid he is hoping for from the Germans. 
====================================National 
Airline fares will increase 
WASHINGTON--Prices for first class airline tickets will increase between 4 and 7.3 percent on all domestic flights, April 1, and coach class fares may rise by 3 percent on some routes, mostly in the South and Midwest. 
Homosexuality and the state 
WASHINGTON--The Supreme Court ruled yesterday a state may constitutionally prohibit private homosexual acts between consenting adults. 
Hearst arraigned 
LOS ANGELES--Patty Hearst, convicted of bank robbery charges 10 days ago, was arraigned yesterday on 11 felony charges of kidnaping, robbery and assault. She was ordered to return April 14 to enter a plea. 
The 'Cuckoo' crows 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest," a story of rebellion inside a mental hospital. won 1975's best-picture award Monday night, and its stars, Jack Nicholson and Louise Fletcher were honored as best performers of the year. 
.,__On Campus Toda~i-_. 
10 a.m. ---book sale, n.d. library association book sale, 5 p.m. library concourse, proceeds to go to rare book room. 
--lecture, "the history of economic though as it pertains to economic dependency and development in latin america," by lloyd raines, queens college and cambridge university, room 2c Iafortune, sponsored by economics dept. 
10 a.m. 
12:15 
p.m. --mass, Iafortune ballroom. 

12:15 
p.m. ·-in-house lecture, a reading from a novel in progress, "the economics of enjoyment," by cynthia davis, room 220 o'shaughnessy hall, sponsored by english dept. 


3:30p.m. --computer course, "pl-1", room 115, computer center 
4:30p.m. --seminar, "effects of the mishigan city powr plant on salmonid movements in trail creek, indiana," by dr. david w. morgan, n.d., room 278, galvin aud., sponsored by biology dept. · ·,;, l': ·· ·1 · • 
. .. I 
7:30 p.m. --prayer meeting, charismatic prayer meeting, Iafortune rathskeller. ' 
. . "" ~ . ~· .:. '"' 
7:30p.m. --lecture, transcendental meditation, libr lounge, also 9 p.m. r 
8 p.m. and--film, "magnificent ambersons", engineering aud., 10 p.m. sponsored by cultural arts commission, ticket $1. 
12 p.m. --album hour, wsnd 640 am, genesis, "a trick of the tale." 
12:15 a.m.--nocturne night flight, wsnd 88.9 fm, the best in progressive rock, jazz and blues, tonight's host: 
dave szymanski. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Martha Fanning Asst. Night Editor Bill Rivard Copy Reader: Pat Cole 
Day Editors: Bob Mader & Jim Commyn 
Features: Chris Smith 
Sports: Paul Stevenson Typists: Terri Harlan, Tess Clemens, Mary Celeste 
Night Controller: Howard Halle 
ERRATUM 
There was an error in the story in yesterday's Observer about the co-exchange pro­gram between the North and South Dining Halls. The program will begin today, instead of Tues., April 30, as was printed. 



~-~ tSir 'Richard's 
~ BARBER STYLING 
~~~~~~~~~ 
UNISEX HAIR SULINC 
129 DIXIEWAY SOUTH ROSEt.AND IN PORTAGE R£Al.TY BUILDING 277-8734 

Joyce speaks at ND night 
by Tom O'Neil Editor-in-Chief 

Universal Notre Dame Night came to the Monogram Room of the ACC last night. 
Sponsored by the Alumni Assoc­iation, the activity intends to promote the "spiritual character" of Notre Dame, according to Fr. Edmund Joyce, University Vice President, and guest speaker for last night's event. In honor of Notre Dame, dinner celebrations of this type are conducted throughout the world during a three-month period every year. 
The evening began with an informal reception before the din­ner and concluded with the pres­entation of Notre Dame's Award of the Year, presented to Jerry Ham­mes, a prestigious citizen of the South Bend -Mishawaka commun­ity. 
Fr. Joyce, in his address to the dinner crowd, traced the history of Notre Dame, and, in particular, the financial problems the University has faced historically. 
"It costs the University $60 million to operate today," Joyce explained. "As administrators, we are forced to deal with the constant rise of prices and the increase involved with operating a private university. We cannot be forced to pass that onto the students who enroll here." 
"Private education no longer has a favored place in society," he continued. ''The federal govern­ment and independent corporations 
Have you been ripped off lately? 
Persons encountering probelms with the vending machines of campus are encouraged to notify the Vending Department according to Dean Winter, vending manager. 
With the machines, there are many things that can go wrong, Winter noted. The machine may reject or steal your coin, it may not give you the correct change, the wrong product may be recieved or the desired item to be purchased may not be available. 
"The policy of the vending operation is to return any money that the vending machine has accepted without giving a product in return," Winter indicated. He emphasized furthermore, that the vending department strives to pro­vide the products the consumer wants and to provide products of high quality. 
If you have been short-changed or have any suggestions to improve vending, Winter encourages those to call 8888 or write to the Manager 
of Vending in the  North  Dining  
Hall.  
Help  and  suggestions  may  be  

found also by contacting the Direc­tor of Food Services in the South Dining Hall at 7253. 
The Obsel"Ver is published Monday through Friday <11d v.Eekly during the SUill'Tlff session, except during the exafT6 <11d vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Darre <11d Sf. Miry's College. Subscriptions may be purdlased for $18 ($10 per semester) fro, The Observer, Box Q, Notre Darre, lndi<11a 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Darre, IN 46556. 
® 
are putting their money elsewhere, and considering the falling birth rate, education will become more expensive in the future." 
Joyce offered no solution to the financial problems the University may face in the future, but confess­ed confidence in the continued financial stability of Notre Dame. 
Near the conclusion of his ad­dress, Joyce commended the sup­port of "The outstanding people" in attendence last night and cited the "spiritual character" of Notre Dame as a reason for their dedi­cated support. 

''If it had to be summed up into one word," he noted, "Notre Dame could be said to have charisma." 
The continued successes of the Univeral Notre Dame nights throughout the world were cited as evidence of a growing concern about the University world-wide by another member of the event. At present, there are over 100 similar celebrations elsewhere throughout the world, the first of which was conducted in Gary, Indiana on March 15 with Fr. James Burt­chaell, Provost ofthe University, as the guest speaker. 
Fr. Edmund joyce was the guest speaker for the Universal Notre Dame night in the Monogram room of the ACC last night. (Photo by Mike Kron). 
THE BEATLES 

AWAY WITH WORDS 
6 UNFORGETTABLE PERFORMANCES 
$ e-u-2su MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
3 
&:oo p.m. SATURDAY SUNDAY 

$375 
lO:OOp.m. 





APRIL 3•4 
$350 
Perfon111ces 11 &, 8 & 10 p. 11. 

s:oo p.m. EACH NIGHT AT 
ADVANCE MORRIS BOX OfFICE .• BOGGlE RECIJ\OS THE TICKETS ADVANCE TICKETS (SUSPENDED CORD) Elkhart and Goshen DOOR (JUST FOR THE REC\J\0 AND THE REC. JOINT) Niles 
NEED A JOB NEXT YEAR? 
The Observer is looking for 

ad salesmen 

Earnings on a commission basis 
-great potential. 
Must have use of a car. 
o 
Q 
FOR INTERVIEW CALL MIKE MILLER AT 7471 OR 288-0088 

L______J.,,-~--~-l!IFKtfi~•JIAI~miiBUIUl~'Sl~llll~.---,~.._j,.•.~.~--~.--~-~--~-~--~-~--~--~.~••~.~•.~.~--~-~.~..--------------~ 
( , , , ' ., ., , . . 
T_u_e_s_d_a.:...cy,_M_a_rc_h_3_0...:_,_1_9_76____t.....:h...:.....::e_'-=o-=b ~~rver 


designed to better satisfy student's needs. For St. Mary's shuttle bus implemented a new 
Some confusion resulted when the Notre Dame­
story and revised schedule see page 6. (Photo by schedule yesterday. The new timetable is Paul Joyce). 

Pre-registration policy changes crack down on student violations 
by Cathy Nolan 
ink pen. The secretaries will com­to allow them first choice of Staff Reporter 

pare the J.D. numbers on the two cards. The Registrar's Office is forms, to make sure they corres-considering the use of different Scveral pre-registration policy pond. colors on the forms for each class. changes have been implemented "This is the only practical means "We would not be able to switch 
by the Registrar's Office, effective 
this semester. 
The aim of the policy changes, stated assistant registrar Beverly Fisctee, is to reduce the number of pre-registration policy violations. 
In previous semesters, students obtained class cards at the various department offices by showing their form SO cards and by signing a class roster. Under this system, it was possible to obtain class cards for another student, prior to his assigned registration date. 
To safeguard against this pract­ice, the registrar's office has eliminated all "M-chcck cards." To obtain a class card, a student must first show his form SO at the respective department office. The student will then be required to fill in his identification number on the class card with a felt-tip or black 
SMC Law Society elects new officers 
The St. Mary's Law Society held elections to determine next year's officers Feb. 29. As a result of these elections, sophomore Cindy Raccuglia was chosen president, junior Donna Berndt was elected vice-president, freshman Telana Stokes was chosen secretary and junior Rosemary Bruckner was elected to be treasurer. Also, freshman Mary Pat Butler was chosen to head publicity. 
Next year's plans and activities will be announced at a final 
• 
TONIGHT 11IE UBRARY INVflm YOU TOWATCH 11IE FONZ AND DRINK $.50 MIXED DRINKS AIL NIGHT 
• 
WED. MARCH 31 

• 
llVE ENTERfAINMENT BY 

• 
"WORKINGMAN'S TAIJSMAN'' 

• 
COUNTRY NIGHT WEAR YOUR OVERAllS AND HATS $10 TO 11IE ~T COUNTRY W~TERN


•+ ourm. 




~•••.•.••... 
available to us," Fisette com­to color-coded form-SO's at this mented, "to enforce the pre-time because of the large supply of registration policies. We realize white forms in storage right now," this change will create more work Fisette said. for the secretaries of the depart­Advance registration for the ments, but we feel this system will 1976-77 fall semester is scheduled be beneficial to everyone." for April 8-13. Seniors will register 
Another possible safeguard be­on April 8, juniors on April 9, and ing considered by the registrar's the sophomores on April 12 and 13. 
· oftice is color-coding of the form­The major cards will be distributed SO's. Presently, the senior class earlier in the week. Students must form is blue, while the forms for return their completed form-SO's the other three classes are white. and class cards to Stepan Center, The senior forms are colored blue April 12-IS. 
Food, beverages, waitresses now offered at Nazz 'deli' 
by Joe l.opina 
Staff Reporter 

The Social Space Committee of the Student Life Council revealed plans for a delicatessen-style res­taurant opening in the Nazz on April I. 
Food will be served from 9:00 
p.m. to 12:00 a.m. on Wednesday through Saturday for the remainder of the semester. These hours will serve as a basis for the schedule next semester. The delicatessen will include waitresses at tables serving an array of sandwiches, snacks and various beverages with live entertainment. 
"Our special attraction will be the 'Nazzwich,' a sub-sandwich served by the inch with a maximum of 22 inches," said Kathy Van Effen, a member of the Social Space Committee. "It will be good for large groups." 
The food will be prepared by the Huddle staff, but nothing on the menu is available in the Huddle. A variety of food will be offered at various prices. ''Thanks must go to the University Food Service for their help in choosing the bill of fare," stated John Reid, a member of the Student Life Council (SLC). 
The restaurant is designed to bring people out of their dorms as an alternative to off-campus drink­ing activities. Plans for the future include an extension of operation hours to seven days-a-week. The first month of operation will be experimental. 
Comments and suggestions are welcomed by the Student Activities Office on the first floor of the LaFortune Student Center or by calling 7308. 

Economic index is still favorable 
by David Wallace Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The government index designed to predict future economic trends climbed for the fourth consecutive month yesterday. but at a slower rate than the previous month. 
The increase of eight-tenths of one percent for February indicated sustained economic growth in the next few months. but at a more modest rate. 
The February gain compared to a 
I.S percent advance in January. That figure was revised downwarc from the 2.2 percent originally reported. 
The index is compiled by the Commerce Department from a dozen individual sensitive statis­tics. Eleven of the 12 were reported in time for inclusion in the monthly computation. and eight of those p,)inted upward. 
The major upward intlucnce came from a higher percentage of firms reporting ditticulty getting fast deliveries. Slower deliveries arc considered a sign of increased demand. The preeentage of firms saying deliveries had slowl~d increased from 42 percent in Janu­ary to SO percent in February. 

The index also showed indica­tions of economic growth in thesr' statistics: lower layoff rate in manufacturing, higher wholesale prices for key commodities, a faster formation of new businesses. high­er stock prices, a larger money supply after adjustment for intla­tion, a greater volume of orders for manufacturers of consumer prod-ducts and ;~ larger numbet· of building permits issued. 
The upward forces more than made up for the downward fon:t·s exerted bv a shorter work week. a snwllcr ~olumc of eontrach and orders for production facilities. and a ~lower rate of growth in the volume of cash and securities which can quickly be converted into cash held by eonsumcrs and busi­ncsscs. 
~IOOIIIRIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIbJIIIIIIIIIIIII....._miUihllltltllllllfillttli~ 
~ --- THE POSTER PLACE  ~ --- 
=  =  
~ - 100 11 x17 POSTERS only $10.00  ~ - 
ii ~i  insly·prints 203 N. MAIN ST. SOUTH BEND 289·6977  iiI =  

elliiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIII_I_WIIIRIRRIIIII.IIIIII~~ 
COLLEGIATE JAZZ 
FESTIVAL 
STEPAN CENTER 
FRIDAY APRIL 2  7:30 P.M.  
SATURDAY  12:30 P.M.  
APRIL 3  7:00P.M.  

All SESSION PASS $6.00 
The fabulous 

THURS. NOTRE~ APR. 8th DAME ., 
A. C. C.
7:30 P.M. 

Tickets Ticket Prices: Blt~chtn ---------· $3.00 On SaIe Lowwlr•• 
Daily At the (E•d court) -----·--$4.50 
Lowwlr••
ACC, 9-5 SiHCOII't) ________ $5.50 
N.D. & S.M.C. 
STUDENTS, FACULTY, AND STAFF $1.00 OFF ALL TICKETS 
$3.00 
$2.00 $4.50 

r 
the observer Tuesday, March 30, 1976
4 
Would you belieue holy orders for WOMEN, too? 
The earth-shaking issue 
of equal rights for women 
in matters of the Church. 
EDITOR'S NOTE: This Is the final part of a two-part article. 
''It's much deeper than hearing· voices in the ear," said Sr. Mary Walden of Ft. Worth, Texas. who fl'l t so called. "It is a deep '>piritual conviction. Thatcall i~.so tkep you cannot not respond. 
Bonding together not to "de­fine" church but "to be" church, lav and women religious agreed that the success of the conference proved ordination to be a signifi­cant issue. Instead of allowing the ta'>k Ioree which had organiz­ed the meeting to self-destruct, the women approved the designa­tion of a national group to keep the is'>UC alive. This is to be done through a constant dialogue with the bi... hops and the people in the 
pew. 
"It has been difficult for the church to accept the idea of lay ministers. They arc SL'l"n as invading sacred space," believes Sr. Hughes. "It is the same on the ordination movement. The people need time to explore the issue." Ordination will eome not through a "wild revolution" hut through a "peaceful on-going dialogue." 
"It is our duty to keep this dialogue alive.'' .'>he added. Dr. Josephine Ford, professor of theology at the University of Notre Dame disagrL'l·d with this mild strategy and advocated a more agressive call to action. 
"The general atmmpherL' of the confer­ence was gentle, unthn:all'ning, prayerful. The strategcms discu....sed were mostly what not to do and in the end we should he nunlikt·, good girls. mcl'k and mild. I think the time has come to take an aggressive approach.'' 
William Storey, also a Notre lhmc tl!l'ology professor agreed that women '>hould he "adamcnt" hut should he careful not to isolate the regular parishoncrs. 
"Women arc not asking for piddly L'Oilcl·ssions. I think it gratuitously in-.ulting that women arc not rccogni~.cd to be official readers at the mass. Women won't gl'l a L·hangc standing around wi-.hing 'wouldn't it he nice'!'. But only through patient insistence will the move­ment gain respect." 
Storey advocated dialogue with the hislw.ps as a mclhod of insistl'ncc which will causL' "the male authority structure within the church to numhll'." 
SOCIAl. AND TltEOWGICAt TENSION 
The real tTUX of the ordination move­ment is that its theological roots complicate the is,ut· hevond that of sexual discrimina­tion. No ont: can daim a right to ordination as om· would daim a right to equal pay or equal joh opportunities. 
.. It would Ill' a mistake I hl'lievc to rnlun· the questiou of the ordination of \\Oill<'ll to <lllL' of injustice," Al'l'hhishop lkmadin assnll'd. "It would be correct to do thi~ onlv if ordination were a (;od-gin·n right ;,revery individual; only if .'>llllleholl' one·..., human potential could not he fulfilkd without it." 
Svripture and tradition, lhcu, must be ,. ~ plornl to dl'!ermilll' w hl'l her there are tht·ologil'al rea~on~ why women should he deuicd <'lltrv. Fr. John Gallen, Direl'lor of the Nolr<· · Dame Murphy Center for I.iturgi,·al Research stressed that the ordiuation liturgic~ must be examined. The liturgics arc the documents written ovn the church's 2,000 year history pertaiuing to the sacrament. 
"The ordination issue is not solely a social one," <.lallen aflirmed. True, one half of the mystkal body has been denied entry into the priesthood. But. using the same reasoning. one half of the population has been prevented from having babies. What should we do? Alter the chemistry of nll·n? Just so, there may be solid theological reasons to prevent women from entering the priesthood," he added. 
Gallen personally believes the liturgics pose no rcal'impcdiment t9 women's. entry into the priesthood. The qualifications described emphasize a "spirit of holiness" resident in the eandidatc along with wisdom. maturity, and cxamplic behavior. 

"There are no anatomical distinctions." 
he affirmed. But although there arc no 
explicit restrictions regarding gender there 
nwy he other difliculties. 
"The ordination liturgics arc a tradition but they may have to he qualified by other aspects of tradition," Gallen cautiously added. 
WOMEN IN SCRIPTURE 
Those theologians moved by the wo­men's issue have delved into Scripture and diseovercd that women surround .Jesus from I he nadlc to I he cross even when men like l'l'ln flee from a real lest of fait h. Women arc also the first to receive the l't'lltral mes.~age of the He.~UITL'l'lion. 
Not only do the advocates of ordination marshal biblical evidence to support the importance of women in witnessing the institution of the church. The fundamental Christian message docs not delineate the sexes. To allude to the gender of those who bring the message is to unjustly limit ih intended meaning. 
" 'In Christ there is neither male nor female, "Sr. Karen Stepien of the task force quoted Galatians. "For this reason, I personally believe that there is no charac­teristic. once having been made unimpor­tant by rebirth in Christ, which renders any person unlit to exercise the fullness of the priesthood which was initiall'd through Baptism." she emphasized. 
The fad that women were not among the twelve chosen apostles was a funetion of the social conditions of the time, the proponenh of ordination stress. Women in the .Judaic faith were considered "un­clean" because of the menstruation pro­cess. This mentality through the centuries has excluded women from kadcrship roles. 
"Women were thought to be essentially passive not active, emotional not intellcc­t(::d, destined to contribute to human ctf~J'tmwnity through reproduction and not production," asserts Sr. Margarl'l rarlcy a leading speaker at the ordination confcr­L'nt·l'. 
The pric~thood connotes leadership. Farley argues. When the dwrch is viewed as an institution. the priest is "govenor"; when viewed as a servant of the people. the priest is "mediator". In both old and new conceptions of church the priest is still fundamentally a leader. 
To deny onlination would not only affirm that women arc ''incapable of leadership,'' Farley believes, but it would also "perpe­tuate an unjust pattern of relationships between women and men" in the commun­ity of God. 
RIGHT TO TEST VOCATION 
Advocates of the ordination movement agree that people may not have a right to ordination, as Bernadin stressed, but that they do have a right to test the vocation to which they feel called. In this sense the issue becomes one ofjustice which calls for a break with customary tradition. 
"There are two types of tradition," said Professor William Storey of the University of Notre Dame. "There are those traditions rooted in scripture and those based upon customs. The Spanish Inquisition was a tradition. The popes have been shown through the ages to be good at breaking customs. Why don't we do it again and allow women to enter the priesthood?'' 
Sr. Patricia Hughes of the conference task force agrees that the issue is one of injustice. 
"To deny the testing of one's vocation catagorically is an injustice," she affirm­ed. "Basil' humanity involves being able to be of service, as Christ said in Mark's gospel: 'I came not to be served but to serve others.' In denying one a manner of service is in effcet to deny his or her humanity." 
The urgency •1f permitting women to celebrate the sacraments, she believes, is underlied by the fact that "God is calling". 
"The church is a structure which administers to the call of the kingdom and it docs this through an ordained ministry.'' 
Sr. Anne Carr, who spoke on "The Church in Process" at the ordination conference, believes that intrinsic to the idea of a sacramental priesthood is that "the grace which it mediates cannot be hoarded or claimed. It is given freely and is received freely." She reeognizes the ordination movement as being a sign of "generosity and freedom of Christian grace". 
TRANSFORMATION OF THE PRIESTHOOD 

Women, however, are cautious about entering the present priesthood. The chureh itself is eurrcntly examining how the model of a powerful hcirarehical elite can be transformed to one that is service oriented, one in which the priest is a facilitator of eharisms. 
"I think any woman wanting to enter the present priesthood is nuts," said Storey. "Many priests feel that they are trapped in an elitist system." 
The change would be one in whieh priest and bishop are "instrumental in bringing out the talents of the group; come down to the same level as the group." believes Dr. Jospehinc hml, theology profcsor at the University of Notre Dame. In such an environm-ent both priest and the people would undergo a learning experience togdhcr. 
If women would he allowed to enter the priesthood. it would be liberating for priests in general, Storey emphasized. "Women who advocate ordination have already transeendcd one stereotype-­women subordinate to men. It will be unlikely that they will enter a system which views the bishop's power as absolute," he added. 
Women feel the eall to a transformed mini~try. witnessed Sr. Hughes at the ordination l'tlllferenee. "They arc not dying to put on a Roman collar and live in a rcl'lory. They have no desire for power and it is without this desire for power that they will transform the ministry." 
The movement to ordain women marks a growing awareness hy women of their role in the chureh. Women demand that the church recognize their human call to be of service. The church ean no longer remain silent hut must examine scripture and tradition for reasons why women should be denied the blessing of ordination. And this can only be accomplished through dialogue between the bishops and the people; "a painful proeess," as Archbishop Bcrnadin acknowledged. 
"We must remain in dialogue, even if the dialogue docs not seem to be leading to mutually satisfactory solutions. At all times we must he ready to hear what others arc saying--really sayi.ng." 
-e''tid-tie ~e~t(i''l 


Got problems with your love nfe? 
Write to Clydemnestra 
for all the answers. Address all letters to: 
Dear Clydemnestra 
Box Q 
N.D., Ind. 46556 



,________ 

I ~'
I ·~o; I f'~~ I ~ 
I ~~ '"} I ~· ~" 
I ~ ~ 
I o:.~~
I -u· I I I I I I I I I I II -------­I I I I I I I I I I I I I I



1---­
1-+-+-+-+ 
I _..... _..... __,. __,. I I
I ALL DELETIONS I 2 FOR 1 I 
~---~~~~ .. .. 
I~ I ·~ ~ 
I ~ ~o
I ~o o I o~~~ 
I ~ :0 <"~
i ~~ ~~ 
I ~ ~~ ~ ~(j) I ~ ~ ~~ 
I Cb ~ I ~~ I ~~~ 
I 7~ ~ 
I ~ I I I 
I 
.. • 
I I I 
FREE DONUTS

I 
I ·A~T 1~ P.M. 



I

Spectacular Music •••lncrediiJie Artists I I 

P....l&.w.. SJ.II '""'l'f """".11 tJ..u ,....... 
~ ...... 
'WI-,elot_lll:_lo­M,t,.._lf,....I...,...AILHI 
_l,eoi"--Al.ooodl...,. 
'~ \llli\lt·ula
l.and«U I ht• 
,. . \lidni~d~~~::.:l 
, .... w.,..., 
• ....... louk..niJ•w" ..hmtloololoOI
'"""'"' ~' ...... 
luwelloo",.'"""
'1<H..II:::;,:7,: 

~o~~ .......;........ 
'flle.Rt1$~r1]! 
II•Y' in the i\ttk 
---.
_,....,_,............,....... 
·~·~·::::.:~7:;:~1 
, ~ " 
P{: .U4/!1 
NATIONAL LAMPOON 
(im~tl-hy!' l'ot• 
""""'"'II
'""' ''"' tf,_ • !Ou•l• k"''U I u~ "''~'"'~~ '"" ""'' K,.,,..., ""'''" Atl•-h~1 Utllt•IJ".otl,.~ ()ldMIIIII!Moui,..,I!I.OMto•~.OK<"'II' 
Sw~-~~'~:~·-~un 
,,.......,...... 
... ....,.,..,.Qr,O..Hoi!Mooo.._.. 
..,1'1,.,01ft,."'-11BvNal•o(.....,'P>nl.l..... 

PI 33851 
I.IIJ.:J.:itrs & Ml'nitru .\'aril•t•So,, 
,..._...... "V 
fuof11e B<.J.ov,...,..,, 
s..",..,..,,.,Pe.,•m•ket W••ll"90u• ,,,... 
·=-·· 
Phoebe Snow Second Childhood 
~-.. t:toetolnft'M>Ft&t-.dl~IA.O..

s-·Do--oon/Pto.O•wn ""-'""' 

JOURNEY 

LOOK INTO THE FUTURE 
.k111i1 lan/-fjiertont'' 
ot\ChJdlnQ 

IWnuldloloeloO•"'-• 
H.,~~~~t~~~·a:.•;,.. 

Sutherland Brothers &Quiver 
REACH FOR THE SKY 
on(luc:Jong 
~ 

CHICAGO'S GREATEST HITS 
~-­
..U.111nu'HMa/Cok>ufllyWo<1d 

,.......... n.. .......,2~0rll!llt>4 
u......,s......:,..,lk>tO<"'II 
WW..V¥DuW....-.. 
PC 33900 
BOB DYLAN DESIRE 
...... ,MlJAliiiiiCOf!DN:. 

II AN I'IHUU HA'I.ii'AI fluu~• 
SUITE" • FLUTE 
ANO JAZZ PIANO 
l'l,\lii>IIU>I UN<, 
--f~~::~=-~" 

•-~­
"'•••AWc:wnen•L..ow411o ...... A ...... I 
Alln..WotldllwoC........., Cholk!OI""-'...c:•IY.,.I-Andw..-.. 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I ! I. I I I I I I I I 
I I 


PZ 33806 

.DtfftwtmR Leonard Cohen CAPTURED UVE! The Best Of 
tn(I...,."V BunyMtwun,.RoiiWtlh ... 
Howft,..•rfiiAOI•••rl..tRoc:•&"ool~ 
lloAM0...."'-5-IP-..Iol'lon 
.Johnnil· 'laylor Eargao;m 
'"''"""""

O.t<ul_., OUr\ I''"" ~Hetlloucly!HVowC ... Ilour~•He<.....,~ Someb<><IJ•U."'"III'Ioo.!tlfM&.ollnfMWotkl """"'"90...10fl ... 

...: .,..• I-... •··' • t t :: '"'" 4 •• •• l'l .•. ·.
I a•ua______________fllf,,-yN;~~,'!;,'1'1Y 

·--~.' .. 

-~-­

the observer Tuesday, March 30, 1976 



Action Express 
ACTION EXPRESS sponsored by the OMBUDSMAN SERVICE Monday thru Friday 9:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday thru Thursday 9:00 p.m. to midnight phone 283-7638 
Q. Who should I call to fmd out about parent housing for graduation? 
A. To find out any information about housing for graduation you can call Mr. Foss at 7640. 
Q. Who owns the boats on St. Joseph's Lake? May anyone use them? 
A. The boats belong to the Notre Dame Sailing Club. To use the boats you have to be a member of the club. 
Q. When is the deadline for submitting works to the Juggler? 
A. The deadline is April 4. You can turn them in to the Juggler office which is located on the 3rd floor of LaFortune in the Scholastic Office. For any further information you can contact Gary Zebrun at 6362. 
Q. Where can I call to find out about Senior pictures? 
A. For any questions or information about senior pictures, you should call 3557. 
Danehy, Moore speak on problems at ND 
(continued from page 1) United Religious Community of St. into the university community is a Joseph County, expressed concern continuing problem. '"If I had 
about the preference in hiring more leverage, I'd move faster." Catholic facultv at Notre Dame. "I Hesburgh said. think it is wrong." the Chemistry 
Both Moore and a questioner inprofessor said. He added that the audience disagreed with Res­Protestant. Jewish and agnostic burgh's statement that tenure isfaculty members contribute spiri­not necessary for academic free­tually-to the university. Danehy is dom. Moore said that facultyalso disturbed by problems of women are reluctant to speak outhonesty and lack of loving concern on their status because they might among students. faculty and ad­be labelled feminists and deniedministrators. 
tenure. Moore is chairperson ofMoore noted that there appears the American Association of Uni­to be discrimination in hiring versity Professors Committee on women faculty. There are fewer the status of women.
faculty wome~ now than in 1972. Hesburgh admitted his concern Last night's program was the last about tokenism. He added that in a series sponsored by the integrating Blacks and Chicanos Graduate Student Union. 


Arlo Guthrie 
and Shenandoah IN CONCERT 
~rut~~' MIA-~ ae, 'Pt4 

MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM. SOUTH BEND. 
$5.50 in Advance TICKETS: 
6.50 At the Door 

Tickets Availableat: 
Auditorium Box Office Boogie Records Suspended Chord Just for the Record The Record Joint (Niles) 


• •. • •._.• ' II
.'·, 

Ombudsmen, OSA implement revised shuttle bus schedule 
Due to continued problems and confusion with the Notre Dame-St. Mary's shuttle bus, the Office of Student Affairs and the Ombuds­man Service have implemented a new schedule of operation. 
The new schedule has been established to make the shuttle simpler and more efficient in meeting students' needs. The schedule went into effect yesterday and will continue to the end of the semester. 
During class periods, there will be an express bus leaving both campuses three minutes after each class, and arriving before the next class begins. The buses leave from behind Nieuwland Science Building at Notre Dame and from the LeMans Hall parking lot at SMC. Other stops will be at Madeleva Hall, the Grotto and at the Notre Dame power plant. 
During classes, the buses will take a new route. The buses will go from the ND Library to the LeMans parking lot and back, while stopp­ing at the Main Circle, the ROTC Building, the Grotto and Made leva. These buses will make three trips each way, every fifteen minutes after the start of the class period. 
At night and on weekends the bus leaves the ND Library Circle at fifteen minutes after and before the hour. It leaves the LeMans parking lot at the hour and at the half-hour. 
There is a new route for all night and weekend runs. The bus will go from the east side of the Library Circle to the Main Circle and down Notre Dame Ave. to St. Mary's. This bus does not travel within the Notre Dame campus at any time. At SMC the bus stops at Holy Cross 
A-e-advance registration programs will be oonduded for freshrren in all oollege program areas on WEDNESDAY, MARCH 31 at 7:00 P.M. 
At each program, oorrplete information will be given on the advance registration procedures and on the sophorrore yeer and its relationship to the degree curriculum At sorre of the programs there will be mixers with the faculty and upperclass students, as well as tours of the facilities. 
The rreeting places for the programs, acoording to oollege 
program, are as follows: 
Arts and LeHers College Programs Call, induding AL A-eprofessional) 
Washington Hall 
Business Adrrinstration College Program 
Hayes-Healy Center, Room 122 
(A through G at 7:00 P.M., H through 0 at 8:00 P.M., P through Z at 9:00 P.M.) 
Engineering College Programs 
Aerospace & Medlanical Engineering Bldg., Rooms 301, 302, 303 
Architecture Architecture Bldg., Room 201 
Chemical Radiation Lab., Conference Room Civil Engineering Bldg., Room 205 Electrical Engineering Bldg., Room 212 Mechanical Engineering Engineering Bldg., Roorrs 301, 302, 303 Metallurgical Engineering Bldg., Room 5 Engineering Science Engineering Bldg., Room 22 
Science College Programs 
Biology Galvin Ute Science Auditorium, Room 278 Chemistry Nieuwtand Science Hall, Room 343 Earth Sciences Earth Science Bldg., Room 101 
Mathematics 
Corrputer-Mathematics Bldg., Room 226 Microbiology Galvin Ute Science Hall, Room 105 Alysics 
Nieuwtand Science Hall, Room 327 A-eprofessional (Science only) 
Center for Continuing Education, Auditorium 
ALL FRESHMEN ARE REQUIRED TO ATTEND 
THE PROGRAM OF THE COLLEGE OR DEPARTMENT 
THEY INTEND TO ENTER IN THE SOPHOMORE YEAR. 
.-··o · ... 

-~--------------------------------------., 
At $3300 per minute Tuesday, March 30, 1976 the observer 




Reagan acquires television time 
NEW YORK (AP) . Ronald Reagan finaly gained assurance yesterday of the half-hour prime network time he sought for a nationally televised presidential primary campaign speech, re­portedly at a cost of $100,000. 
The National Broadcasting Co. said it would make an exception to normal policy and offer the Republ­ican presidential candidate 30 min­utes at 10:30 p.m. tomorrow. On the other side of the cam­paign fence. live Democratic presi­dential aspirants converged on New York City for a locally televi­sed debate on "Who is Responsible for the Citics"--a prime issue in the tinanciallv stricken city. Included among the debators 11 a, Sen. Frank Church of Idaho, in the initial Eastern appearance of hi' lkdgling Jlrimar.v campaign. Other' taking part in the debate and 'ecking the 274 nomirwting
vote~ at stake in the April 6 New York primar.v \1 ere former Gc·orgia liov . .limmv Carter. Sen. Hen!"',.lack~on or" Wa~hington. forme.r Oklahoma Sen. Fred Harris and 
Reagan's North Carolina victory over President Ford led him to change tactics, and switch tempor­arily from campaigning in the field to network television,where he is comfortably at home. 
Reagan is on the ballot in only one of three primaries next month-­the April 6 Wisconsin race. So he cancelled a full slate of appearan­ces this week in Virginia, Wiscon­sin and Indiana to concentrate on his television address. 
Turned down 
However. all three major net­
. 
works inittally: turned down his bid for prime ttme. contending the notice was too short to allow 
schedule changes. 
NBC made its decision after 
Reagan sent telegrams to all three 
net11orks over the weekend asking 
for time "in the interest of fairness 
and justice as well as the people's
right to know." "Ordinaril_v." NBC said in res-jJOn'L' to the telegram. "NBC would not sell national network time to a candidate this early while 

process. 
"However, in view of the unique situation of the campaign for the Republican Presidential nomina­tion where Gov. Reagan is one of two major candidates and opposes an incumbent president. NBC feels an exception to its general polt'c t' 
Y s
warranted... " 
An industry source tixed the cost of the half hour at about $100,000. the amount the Reagan campat'g 
nt'ttee h d b d t d f h 
comm a u ge e or t e
time slot. 
In Washington. White House Press Secretary Ron Nessen said h e foresaw no move by President Ford to counter Reagan's TV address · with a televised news conference of his own. However. 
Nessen said Ford mav hold one of his scssons with locai news media 
rcpcsentatives when he is in Wis­consin later this week. 
Udall campaigns hard 

In advance of the Democratic 1 1 U j 11 h ·
ce wtc. ca got t c Jump on his New York primary rivals. In town ahead of the others. he took part in 
Rep. Morrb Udall of Ariwna. the state primaries arc still in a series of speeches and inter-
Business ethics, federal controls,I~:0~,;~~;"~~5MIA 143.7 N IRONV\IOOn o·-~ ! 
SOUTH BEND INDIANA ' 

alternatives discussed in lecture t'=~':-A!:~'~r~~~--------J 

by David O'Keefe Staff Reporter 
"Do that whil'h you would feel most L'Omfortablc explaining to your conscience." This was the advice offered by executive Leo­nard M. Savoie, vice-president and c·ontrollcr of the Clark Equipment Co., yesterday in a lecture on business ethics. 
The lecture. entitled "Business 
AAUP bargaining poll taken here 
An opinion poll conducted among members of the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Associa­tion of University Professors shows strong support for collective bar­gaining. 
A key question asked in the poll was "At this point, as a Chapter member or affiliate, do you favor an effort on the part of the Chapter to offer itself as a collective bargaining agent?" Seventy-six members (64 percent) answered "yes." There were 35 (25 percent) "no" answers and eight absten­tions. 
Ninety-four percent of the AAUP Chapter members polled indicated a need to poll the entire faculty for their opinion on the collective bargaining issue. James E. Robin­son, professor of English and president of the Notre Dame AAUP Chapter, said such a questionnaire to be distributed to all the faculty is being prepared. 
The Chapter will meet Wed., March 31, at 7:30 p.m. in the Library Lounge to decide the final shape of the questionnaire and to discuss such issues of academic governance and financial situation that may be relevant to a need for collective bargaining at Notre Dame. 
(Late-breaking) 
lassifiedA 
PERSONALS 

Attention: South Quad Residents. Sin..Healing..wholeness.. lnner' Peace. Whatever happened to con­fession? A talk and reflection by Fr. Burtchaell, SIN AND A FORGIVING GOD. This Wednesday, March 31, 
10:00 P.M., Morrissey Chapet. ..ll­turgy will follow talk. All Invited, South Quad especially. 
Ethics and Government Regula­tion." was the final talk in the Cardinal O'Hara Memorial Lecture series sponsored by the College of Business Administration. 
Savoie, past executive vice­president of the American Institute of Certitied Public Accountants. spoke to the group of business students and faculty of the recent corrupt business practices uncov­ered by investigative agencies. Although he later named Gulf Oil Co. and Lockheed as specific examples, Savoie said, "All of business has been tarnished by a gu illy minority." 
He went on to say the public has demonstrated it will not tolerate unethical business practices and one of the most important tasks in business ethics today is to reestab­lish public confidence in industry. 
He proposed two options, both of which have certain limitations. 
The first, according to Savoie, is to allow businesses to establish their own ethical codes and enforce them themselves. This might not be the best way, however, Savoie said, because the competitive nature of business might lead to doubts as to whether the bus­inesses would act on ethics or self-interest. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: set of keys on Friday, March 26, possibly in small foreign car coming back from Nickles. If found please call Craig at 3336. 
Lost: pair of glasses, brown plastic frames, tinted lenses, brown case. Call Doug 8858. 
Lost: two mate Labrador Relievers, one black, other black with white chest. 6 months old, recent surgery, 'require medication. reward offered, call 232-1557, 283-3193 or 283-6151. 
Lost: Complete Works of Shakes­peare (sometime before break) fam­ily heirloom. Reward, 3378. 
Lost: shopping bag full of books in Library lobby Sat night. Please return, kay 1271. 
Our son lost his class ring ('77 l at a pep rally not long ago. It had a sapphire stone and we are unable to replace it. The ring means a great deal to us. Could the finder please contact the editor of the Observer tor positive identification of the ring? We would be extremely grateful. 
NOTICES 
Accurate, fast typing. Hours 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Mrs. Donoho, 232-0746. 
Stereo components, 20-40 percent discount. all quality name brands, RMS Audio, 321 S. Main, 288-1681. M-F 12:00-6:00. 
views, during which he proposed that the federal government take over welfare costs, which total $2 billion a year in New York alone. 
The Arizona congressman men­tiones no precise figures but other experts said a national program like the one he proposed would cost the federal government between $17 billion and $20 billion a year. 
While saying he doesn't like Cuba's government, Udall advoca­ted renewed relations with Cuba. and also with North Vietnam. 
In Washington during the day. Democratic convention planners voted to open their <~lready crow­ded convention tloor to all of the party's congressmen, governors and lieutenant governors. 
The decision bv the convention Arrangements Cl;mmitke overtur­ned earlier action by the Dcmocra­

tic National Committee limiting floor access during the July nomin ating comvcntion. 
Sen. Robert C. Byrd. D-W.Va., withdrew Monday as a candidate in Tennessee's May 25 Demonatic primary. the second man to do so. Sargent Shriver of Massachusetts, bowed out last week. Eight other Democrats and four Republicans remain on the Tennessee ballot. 
Former Michigan Gm·. Gcorgt: Romney. himself once a GOP presidential hopeful, said in Atlan­ta. Ga .. that he believe~ Ford is the best man in the GOP ract' and that. in his opinion. Reagan's presence in the primary ha~ helped the incumbent president. 
"Ford has proven that he c·an stand a pnlitical challenge." Rom· Ill'\' said. "I think that is a health1· 
thi.ng." · 
t'\R -----------­
MANDO IS NOW LOCATED f
NEAR CAMPUS 
•TO G 

' IVE YOU THE CUl OR STYLE YOU WANTt
I_f] J ' .., L' ,(;' · lj '-' f· ~ ' f
~771/la.JZ u .i Qa'Z T.::"l_ ~o..,::_ff' __ dh .__:;Ji_Lj .-. \/1.'/' 
~ -~ f

vPEN SIX DAYS A WEEK 
M. THRU FRIDAYs TO 5 3o ··•Turn1A, t• 1, :
PERSONAL/ZED SERVJCE '6 
The second alternative Savoie discussed is federal governmental regulations, which he opposed because such interference by out­siders unfamiliar with the problems and practices of the industries would be undesirable. 
Savoie proposed a third alternat­ive that would be initiated by businesses that took "alert, timely and responsive action" in the tield of ethics. 
Quoting economist Peter Druck­er's theory that the sooner an element recognizes and initiates regulation the bigger role it has in framing the legislation, Savoie leaned toward cooperation between business and government in estab­lishing ethical standards. 
Savoie admitted such formalized standards are not going to be initiated in the near future. For the present time, he said, he places the burden of responsibility on the individual company's top manage­ment executives whom he said are in the best position to insure ethical business practices. 
When presented with the situat­ion in which his competitors use illegal or unethical practices to obtain sales, Savoie said, "I would gladly lose the business" before engaging in similar abuses. 

REPEATED BY SPECIAL REQUEST 
a lenten talk on SIN AND A FORGIVING GOD 
FR.' JIM BURTCHAEll, CSC MORRISSEY HAll CHAPEL WEDNESDAY, MARCH 31 10 P.M. 
celebration of mass following the talk and discussion 

Classified Ads 
Papers professionally and promptly typed. IBM Selectric II, and complete typing service. Call 277-2922. 
Typing $.35 per page, call Dan 272-5549. 
Set your own hours and income setting our line of handmade Indian jewelry. Free details. Bluebird Manufacturing, 524 Bryn Mawr 
S.E.. Atburqueque, N.M. 87106. 
Linda's letters, dissertations speci­alists, typing at student rates, 289 5193. 
WANTED 

Looking tor energetic people to run for In PI RG's Board of Directors. 7 positions open. If interested pick up form at In PI RG office and return by April I. 
FOR RENT 

For rent next school term 5 bedroom 2 bath all furnished, porch, off street parking. Near ND. 9 month lease, 234-2626. 
Summer rentals, 4 bedrooms, 5 bedrooms house, 1 bedroom apt., 3 bedroom apt. all furnished. Near ND, very reasonable, 234-2626. 
4, 5, 6 bedroom houses. Completely furnished. Extremely nice real close to campus, Sept. 1976 9 month lease, 233-2613 or 232-7263. 
Summer houses and rooms to~ rent, rea_! close to campus, furnoshed, rodoculously reasonable. 233-2613 or 232-7263. 
Furnished houses, two to seven bedroom, available for September or June. Call 234-9364. 
Houses for rent, 5 bedrooms, fur­nished utilities paid by owner. located near campus, $250 per month, deposit lease required. Call 234-7925 anytime or 232·2088. 
5 room house, two be.~rooms for rent. Fenced yard, gas furnace, garage, fire place, near Notre Dame, 1 block from St. Joseph Hospital. 
Milliken Rentals, 282-2089 233-5833 house and apartments, available tor June or Sept. 
Summer apartment, furnished, two bedroom, air conditioning, shag carpeting, dishwasher, etc. quiet and clean. Short walk to ND, rent negotiable, Chris 277-0953. 
FOR SALE 
Must sell quality stereo components call Ron at 287-0885. 
TEAC 1600A reel to reel. $195, call Chris 3485. 
'72 Fiat 124 Spider, 287-3059. Ask for Bob. 
Early spring bargain! Scout 10-spd; good condition, $25, call 7434. 

Looking for something to brighten up your fish tank? How about a pirahna? Call Paul 1188. 
PERSONALS 

Dear Roxita Colden, Take Kare that Jul control your selves next Sat. Augusteal people should see to their biz ness and not rum wild. 
Julie, Patty, Anne, and Anne, Hitler is tough, but weighed oul, to abhor acknowledgemtn (white dri­nking tea, Jay said) would not help learn Cagey history. Love, M. Gerard B. 
Beautiful Beast: Happy 12th going on 92nd! Re member lhat angels fly because they take themselves -and their room mates--lightly. Actually, we even love Betty Swanson the doper. Snoopy, and your green tights (bag the red ones) Love, NJ, MI. IL 
Barb, I don't usually date older women, but I'll make an exception. Happy (belated) birthday. Love, Kevin 
Cutes, "Oh, better than the hunting of a gold-crowned king is the safe-kept memory of a lovely thing." Thanks for the greatest 6 months, hoping for many more! Fireman 
Boy Wonder and SnoMo, Congratulations! San Luis Osbos. bos here you come! Love, Hot Coco 

~ ­
the observer 




Irish gridders open spring practice 
by Fred Herbst Sports Editor 
The weather was damp, but the spirits weren't as Notre Dame officially started preparation for their 91st grid campaign this fall with the opening of spring practice yesterday afternoon at Cartier Field. 
After being led onto the field by Dan Devine, the squad huddled around the head coach as he delivered a pep talk. Following Devine's remarks, the team was led in calisthenics by co-captain Willie Fry and Mike Banks, substituting for co-captain Mark McLane. The team then broke down to the defensive and offensive units for individual workouts. 
-... The squads re-united after an hour as the first team offense ran plays
~-· 
against the second team defense and the second team offense ran plays against the first team defense. While there was no actual scrimmaging, the plays were run with controlled contact. 
Joe Montana, who suffered a sprained ankle playiPg basketball, didn't
iii 
wear pads ) esterday. While he threw during the passing drills, he didn't participate in any other workouts. 
As expected, Jim Weiler was working out at the tight end spot and Ted Burgmeier was in the defensive secondary. Last season, Weiler played as a running back while nurgmeier played split end. 
But the surprise of the year's first practice session was the shift of Jim Browner from fullback to the defensive secondary. Browner, last season's 
."""' 
leading ground gainer before receiving a knee injury. was working with the first team defense at strong safety as practice concluded. Yesterday's practice lasted two hours before Devine closed the se!.sion. The Irish have 18 more workouts remaining this spring before the annual Dan Devine led the team onto Cartier Field yesterday afternoon, as the Irish opened their spring Blue-Gold game on May I at 2 p.m. in the Notre Dame Stadium. The workouts . (Photo by Mike Kron). team will resume practice this afternoon at 4 at Cartier Field. 
IU claims NCAA championship; downs Wolverines 86-68 in final 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -All-Ame­ The closest Michigan could get  ies over  St. John's of New York,  
ricans Kent Benson and Scott May  after  that  was  four  points  when  Alabama, second-ranked Marquet­ 
united for 51  points  as  Indiana's  Steve Grote converted a pair of free  te and defending champion UCLA­ 
unbeaten  Hoosiers  rallied  in  the  throws  with  6:22  left  to  cut  the  probably the toughest opposition in  
second  half  to  cruch  Michigan  Indiana margin to 63-59.  But may  the 32-team field which entered the  
86-68 Monday night and win col­ hit  from  the  field  and  Quinn  playoffs  which  led  to  Monday  
lege  basketball's  1976  national  Buckner and Tom Abernethy each  night's championship game in the  
championship.  collected a  pair of free throws to  Spectrum.  
The 6-foot-11, 245-pound Benson  quickly  boost  the  Hoosiers  to  a  Michigan, which finished second  
scored 25 points  on  II field goals  10-point margin, 69-59.  to Indiana in the Big Ten, defeated  
and  three  free  throws  as  he  
overpowered  the  Wolverines  in­ Indiana  FG  FT  TP  Michigan  FG  FT  TP  
side, while May collected nine field goals and six from the foul line for 26 points. The victory for No. !-ranked Indiana was the 32nd of the  Abernethy May Benson Wilkerson  4 10 11 0  3-3 6-6 3-5 0-0  11 26 25 0  Britt Robinson Hubbard Green  5 4 4 7  1-1 0-1 2-2 4-5  11 8 10 18  
Hoosiers' perfect season. Ninth­ranked Michigan wound up 25-7-­with three of those losses coming at the hands of Indiana--after the  Buckner Radford Crews Wisman  5 0 0 0  6-9 0-0 1-1 2-3  16 0 2 2  Grote Burgess Staton Baxter  4 0 2 0  4-6 0-0 3-4 0-0  12 0 7 ()  
tirst National Collegiate Athletic Association final in historv between  Valavicius Haymore  1 1  0-0 0-1  2 2  Thompson Hardy  0 1  0-0 0-0  0 () Despite a sprained ankle, joe Montana participated in t opening  
teams from the same confernece.  Bender  0  0-0  0  Totals  27  14-19  61:1 spring practice. Montana is one of several quarterbacks vying for  
Trailing 35-29  at  halftime.  the  Totals  32  22-28  86 the number one starting position. (Photo by Mike Kron)  
Hoosiers drew even at 39-39 on an ]].foot fadeaway jumper by May with 15:13 remaining. The score was tied five times and tilt: kad changed on six occasions before May. college basketball's Plaver of the Year. drove the lane for· an eight-footer at 9:.58 to put Indiana out front 53-5I. The Hoosiers steadily pulled away ther­eafter. Indiana went on to outscore the Wolverines 10-4. boosting their margin to 63-55 with 6:43 left on the clock.  Halftime: Michigan 3'i, Indiana 29 Total fouls: Michigan 25, Indiana 19 Fouled out: Britt, Hubbard A 17,540 This was the third national Wichita State. Notre Dame. Mis­championship for Indiana. which souri and previously unbeaten Rut­won it in 1940 and 1953. each time gers to reach the championship defeating Kansas in the finals. game for the fourth time in its And it was the first national title seven appearances in the NCAA for Indiana's volatile 35-year-old tournament. coach, Bobby Knight. Indiana's 32-0 season equaled Indiana rolled into the champion­the best perfect record in major ship game with tournament victor-college basketball history. accom­ plished by North Carolina in 1957. The Hoosiers were able to win handily despite a discouraging injury with the first half only 2:43 old. Bobbv Wilkerson, the 6-foot-7 senior g~ard. suffered a slight concussion and had to be carried from the tloor on a stretcher. Wilkerson, who had collected 19 rebounds in the semifinal victorv over UCLA on Saturdav, wa·s admitted to Temple University hospital for observation. UCLA, last year's national champion, won third place by  beating Rutgers I 06-92 in the consolation battle which preceded the championship game. Marques Johnson scored 30 points. grabbed II:! rebounds and triggered a game-breaking 1 S-8 burst midway through the second half that carried the Bruins to victory. Johnson scored four points as UCLA pulled from a 75-75 tie to a 90-83 lead with 6:41 to play. and the Bruins later put the game away with a 14-2 burst. Andre McCarter added26 points for fifth-ranked UCLA, which fini­ 



Final Irish Basketball Stats  
Won 23, Lost 6 (Home 14-2, Away 8-3, Neutral 1-1)  
Player  G  Time  FGM-FGA  PCT.  FTM-FTA  PCT.  REB.  AVG.  PF-FO  A  TP  AVG.  
Dantley, F Williams, G Batton. C Paterno, F-G Flower~. F Kn1ght, F-C Martin, G Rencher, G Carpenter, G Haefner, F Anderson, C Kuzmicz, G Schuckman, C ~~~Laimbeer, C TEAM  29 29 28 29 29 28 29 28 24 8 12 16 15 10  1056 725 645 636 672 543 633 343 221 35 28 63 29 190  300-510 146-300 115-236 103-232 100-166 90-196 60-136 59-139 15-40 9-26 5-7 4-20 3-6 32-65  .588 .487 .487 .444 .602 .459 441 .424 .375 .346 .714 .200 .500 .492  229-294 59-83 2'i-41 40-57 28-45 29-44 29-46 13-27 6-12 1-2 7-10 8-12 5-5 18-23  .77Y 711 .610 .702 .622 .659 .644 .481 .500 .500 .700 .667 1.000 .783  292 63 162 116 166 192 51 42 23 5 11 14 12 79 115  10.1 2.2 5.8 4.0 5.7 6.9 1.8 1.5 1.0 0.6 1.0 1.0 0.9 7.9 4.0  7 3-0 61-0 59-1 62-1 95-6 HS-5 73-4 34-0 38-0 5-0 3-0 6-0 6-0 22-1  49 48 43 46 49 24 112 55 45 0 3 7 0 10  829 351 255 246 228 209 149 131 36 19 17 16 11 82  21:1.6 12.1 9.1 8.5 7.9 7.5 5.1 4.7 1.5 2.4 1.5 1.0 0.8 8.2  
TEAM  
..  Notre Dame 29 1041-2079 .501 497-701 Opponents 29 ~~880-1928 .456 409-604 ~Deadball rebounds not included in totals: ND 73, OPP 81 ~~One fieldgoal tipped in by Notre Dame player ~~~Ineligible for second semester  .709 .677'  ~1343 ~988  46.3 34.'  622-18 632-38  491 359  2579 2171  88.9 74.0  

shed its season with a 27-5 record. Phil Sellers scored 23 points and Mike Dabney 21 for Rutgers, which entered the tina! four unbeaten but then lost twice to finish the season at 31-2. 
Indiana hit 52.5 percent of its shots from the field, including a torrid 60 percent in the second half. Michigan was red-hot in the first half, shooting 61.5 from the field, but in the final 20 minutes slipped to 35.5 for an overall 47.4 percent. 
Indiana's Knight leaped off the bench as the clock ticked off the final seconds and hugged each player as he cleared his bench. 
''For two years this has been our objective," said the jubilant Knight. "Not just this year. but for two years these kids have worked hard. No one knows how hard any better than I do." 
Bookstore b-ball 
registration set 
Registration for the Bookstore Basketball Tournament will end this Friday, April 2 at midnight. To enter contact Tim Bourret at 3470 or 151 Morrissey Hall. 




