
At ND Press Conference 
Candidate Hayes raps Hartke 
by Thomas O'Neil Sen. Hartke took trom the Northwestern from Indiana's Eighth District, was Editor-in-Chief Railroad's Ofticcr's fund," Hayes said. elected to Congress in November of 1974. 
"or the $4.500 he accepted from the "Phil Hayes had big plans" when he Rep. Phil Hayes, candidate for the Burlington Northern Railroad Employ­joined the Congress, according to the Democratic nomination for the U.S. ees' fund." June 17, 1975 Wall Street Journal. He 
Senate seat in Indiana, brought "the He also rcferrred to an additional said he had hoped to join the Government number one issue" to the Notre Dame contribution fof $5,000 made by the Operations Committee, among others campus yesterday. The "issue," he Transportation Political Education Fund. things, but was only minimally successful 
insisted, was his opponent, incumbent Hartke's congressional sub-committee, in realizing his original goals. 
Sen. Vance Hartke. he explained, " supposedly regulates the Today Hayes has been termed "a In a press conference address delivered trucking. railroad and other transporta­goddamn good legislator," and tak•:s yesterday at the Morris Inn, Hayes dealt tion industries.'' pride. as he says, "in taking part in thc almost exclusively with the subject of Sen. Hartke's day is over," he assert­decision-making process" of the U.S. 
his opponent's integrity. ed, "because there are new rules in government. Hartke, he said, is "the least effective politics. The voters won't tolerate money At his press conference ycstcrd:~v, 
Senator in America today," citing the buying special privilege for spcdal Hayes stated, "The task that lavs before results of a Capitol Hill News Service poll interest.'' our party, and our countrv is t~) re~tore as evidence for this opinion. "I will win the Democratic nomination faith--to make the people believe that the 
Hayes also accused Hartke of having for Senator," he continued, "because our politicians who represent u~ arc honest. "the least integrity " among U.S. party's voters want a good legislator not and that their instituti,ms will respond." Senators. married to special interest." · "Asa U.S. Senator," he concluded, "I 
REP. PHIL HAYES "Perhaps it is the $5,000 contribution Hayes, the U.S. House representative believe I can accomplish that goal." 



late Juan D. P~ron returned to president was arrested and tlown to ment.
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina rather tnan mm1stcrs. (AI') -The military junta that power in 1973 made it doubtful the interior just after midnight and A statement issued by the junta The new foreign administrator is Videla and his colleagues could within hours the military dissolved as it was sworn in before top
ousted President Isabel Peron in a Rear Adm. Antonio Vanek, until bloodless coup began Wednesday solve the economic problems. The congress and took over municipal officers gave no indication how the recently the military attache of the the gargantuan task of imposing military also had some trouble with governments and main labor new government plans to stop the Argentine Embassy in Washing­movements.
order on this chaotic nation. Troops guerrillas when it ruled before, and inflation, which ran 334.8 percent ton. moved swiftly -with occasional partly for these reasons was slow to The long-expected coup met last year. Each member of the junta made practically no resistance.
gunfire-against traces of Peronism end the 21-month rule of Peron's There was also no clear plan for an oath to respect the Christian 
and left-wing political groups. widuw. A number of Mrs. Peron's stopping political violence, which Gospel as he was sworn in by the Mrs. Peron, 45, was believed The coup left only Venezuela and ministers a!ld aides and some labor was taking an average of nearly government notary in a brief Colombia with civilian govern­leaders in addition to Miguel were three lives a day.
llown to a resort-like air force ceremony at the army high com­
arrested, according to official
compound in the interior. Reliable ments in South America's major Besides Vide tal, members of the mandbuilding behind the pink Gov­
nations. communiques and military sources. junta are the navy commander,
sources in Madrid said the Spanish ern mentHouse. 
Among those reported arrested
government had been unofficially By contrast to the last previous Adm. Emilio Massera, and the air The junta gave no indication 
informed that she might travel to South American coup, the bloody was her private secretary, Julio force chief, Gen. Orlando R. Agos­when it expected to return the Gonzalez, charged with crimina; ti. The three men announced an
Spain this weekend. overthrow of Salvador Allende in country to civilian rule but said it 
acts. Gonzales was regarded as t};c eight-man cabinet made up of four 
Commanders of the three armed Chile in 1973, the Argentine over­would operate as a sort of "collec­
power behind the Peron presiden~:y
forces set up an austere military throw was done with finesse and army generals, two navy admirals tive government" until the next 
in recent months. and two air force brigadiers. They
government, ordered an end to apparently little violence. Several president is appointed by the 
Isabel Peron, a former dancer, are to be called administrators
political and labor activity and said thousand persons were believed armed forces "in due time." 
became Peron's third wife after he
they would attack Argentina's pol­killed in the fighting in Santiago, 
was overthrown and exiled in 1955
itical violence and economic woes. and Allende himself died in his 
during his first rule of Argentina. 
Social Space Commission
The junta led by Gen. Jorge H. flaming palace. The Chilean armed 
They returned in triumph in 1973
Videla. moralistic SO-year-old army forces said he committed suicide, 
and at 77 he was elected president
chief, also said it would reorganize but Allende supporters claimed he and she vice president. 
offers film presentations
the country for an eventual return was killed. 
to "republican democracy" and The new Argentine junta said it A heart attack killed Peron in this to the fact that it was the firstby John O'Donnell 
would align Argentina within "the will welcome and promote foreign July 1974, and she became presi­day back form break and thereStaff Reporter Western and Christian world." investment, paralyzed ~v restrict­dent but was unable to quell hasn't been enough publicity.
However. the poor performance ive laws for the past three years political terrorism, check the "The main problem," Reid states,
of the military during the many under the Perons. world's worst rate of inflation or Where can you enjoy fine enter­" is that people are not aware of years it ruled Argentina before the The hemisphere's first woman unify the divided Peronists move­
tainment at a low price with free what is actually happening. If refreshments? The Social Space people know this is going on, 
Committee of the Student Life people will enjoy coming." What Council is currently presenting is going on is a Movie Orgy these attractive features every (G-rated, of course). Monday and Thursday night at 7:30 Reid acknowledges the great 
and 9:30 p.m. in the LaFortune effort put into the committee by its Ballroom. For 75 cents, students members: Kathy Vaneffer, Judy are invited to relieve their tensions Arenson, Jim Brogle, Susan Darin by watching comical film presenta­Kathy KePauw, Ken Girouard and tions. In addition, free popcorn Kevin Kenney. This committee is and soda will be supplied. presently planning the coming 
John Reid, the assistant director attractions. which will include more of Student Activities, states that old time films such as those the objective of this program is for presented in the first series. 
students to relax and have a good Another future attraction will con­time. "The emphasis is on comedy sist of movie out-takes. which arc and to have a lot of laughs." Reid the mistakes taken from films. stresses, "and in doing so it is also Under this heading, the mistakes possible for the students to meet from a Don Rickles and a Don 
more people and establish more Adams series will be presented. relationships. The first series was On a long range basis, the Social really funny since it consisted of old Space Committee is scheming oth­television classics such as Super­er. student activities. For example, man, The Lone Ranger and Ozzle beginning April 1 there will be a and Harriet. We even had some type of food service located in the old Brylcream commercials, the Nazz 'that will consist of sandwiches kind where greasers comb back not presently found in the Huddle. 
their oily hair." Other events for the following year Tonight, the feature is a presen­may be the proposal of a six foot tation about gangsters. The first 30 long submarine sandwich, which 
minutes is devoted to the history of will be sold by the inch, and gangsters in film, which includes designating every Tuesday as Card such stars as Humphrey Bogart. Night. The next portion is a special It must be understood, however, 
attraction for the many Star Trek that these activities and ideas are fans because it will contain a 50 merely suggestions and it will take minute Star Trek episode in which student participation in present 
Students rehea~sing a scene from "The Star Spangled Girl," \fhich the Nazz will present this friday 
gangsters movies are spoofed. activities to make these proposi­and Saturday mght at 8:00p.m. as part of their efforts to expand their variety of entertainment. (Photo 
Monday night's film attendance tions possible in the future,, Reid '------'-To_ny_Chif~i}. _____________________________-J was rather low and Reid attributes ·. state4...· , , _ , 


2 

theobN;~s B~~j;Mmh''·"'~ Scientists study tornadoes, t====================National T sto . th I d.
Five-state quake hits 5 on scale -rms In nor ern n lana 
[AP]--An earthquake rumbled through parts of at least five WEST LAFA YETIE* Ind. AP -Clare said "area boxes" are "These little centers of action states Wednedsay causing minor damage but no reported A team of scientists fromPurdue included with tornado warnings to are sometimes called suction vor­InJUries. University is studying the paths of advise as many people as possible tices and this is where the most Seismographic equipment at three colleges registered the tornadoes in the hopes of saving of impending severe weather. It intense winds are," Agee said. tremors in Tennessee, Alabama, Mississippi, Arkansas and lives and reducing damage form may cover several counties. He "That's why as the thing moves 
said reducing that box would
Missouri ranging in magnitude from 3.5 to 5 on the Richter future twisters. along some buildings can be dam­
enable forecasters and civil defense 
scale. ag-ed severely or destroyed and
The team, headed by Dr. Ernest ~uthorities to better pinpoint where others not damaged as severelyAgee of the Geosdences Depart­the tornadoes will hit. 
because they may fall in between

Wallace 'bugs' blamed on Carter 
ment, has found evidence that may 
Agee will publich a paper in May these centers of strong rotating

help in determining which thunder­
containing some of the findings, winds, these suction spots.''
storms are more likely to spawn the
ATLANTA*GA. Two crude listening devices were discovered Clare said. 
According to Agee, the multiple

destructive funnel clouds.
Tuesday in the off1ce of George Wallace's campaign coordina­Agee and his assistants traced vortices develop when wind speedstor. Soon after finding one device in his telephone and another 
"Since 1973 we have been 
the path of a thunderstorm that reach between 175 and 200 milestaped to the light fixture over his desk, Ned Young told the 
studying the tornado family-prod­
produced tornadoes in the Lafay­per hour.
Associated Press in a telephone interview, "It's either Carter or 
ucing characteristics of thunder­
ette area Saturday.
a Carter supporter." 

storms," Pat Clare, a graduate 
student and member of the re­The professor said the aerial Organic Chemistry 
Young later denied specifically implicating Carter, while Wallace told reporters, "There is no need to make 
search team said. survey of the storm's path showed 
to be offered 

it produced three or four smallerimplications." 
"Further study of these storms 
twisters that developed form the during summer 
may help us to reduce the size of 
main funnel. 
A two-semester course in organic

the area box for which tornadoes
.,..__On Campus Toda!J'-~ chemistry be during
Authorities estimated the tor­will offered nado caused between $1 million the University of Notre Dame's ':):15 p.m. --bicentennial symposium, "the contribution of 
have been forcast." 
and $2 million damage in Carroll Summer Session for undergraduate spain to the american revolution" by dr. albert 
US warns Cuba and Tippecanoe Counties. Other students with the prerequisite one Iemay, n.d., also "the coincident influence of french 
tornadoes struch Marshall, Vigo, year of college chemistry, including writers upon jefferson and boliver" by dr. thomas 
W ARINGTON (AP) --President Madison and Delaware counties. laboratory. renaldi, n.d., and "turgot, the 'philosophes' and the 
Ford today answered to a group The thorough, intensive course,
"Those would be what a witnessamerican revolution" by jacques wendel, n.d., 

of senators U.S. warnings against providing eight credit hours for
would call three different twisters participants, will include 90-minnte library auditorium. 
Cuban military activity abroad, and 
emerging and converging into illustrated lectures each week day
one participant said afterward that 
one," Agee said. "This is really a1:30-4:15 taught by Dr. James P. Danehy;--bicycle pick-up, gate 14, football stadium. 
"there are contingency plans being multiple vortex phenomenon.·'
p.m 
two four-hour laboratory periods

drawn and reviewed at this point."
1:45p.m. 

Agee said the path of the tornado each week taught by Dr. K't!nner A. Secretary of State Henry A. also showed its intensity by leaving Christensen, and voluntary prob­--meeting, history of science society, "american· 
mathematics until the civil war," by prof. dick j. 
"cycloidal looping debris marks,"
Kissinger has refused specifically lem-working sessions, also twicestruik, mit, center for continuing education auditor­which he said are caused byium. 
to rule out a U.S. invasion of Cuba weekly. The first section, equiva­if its troops engage in further "intense suction vortices" in the lent to the first semester, will run 1:30 p.m. 
parent tornado. The marks indi­from June 21 to July 23, and the--computer course, "pl/1," 115 computer centerI intervention in Africa. 
cate the tornado looped backwards second section from July 26 tomathematics building. 
Sen. Richard Stone, D-Fia., who and crossed its own path. he said. August 27. 0 p.m. --meeting, history of science society, "arthur halley 
attended Ford's meeting with the Many of those marks were Early application is advised. compton and the rise of physics in america'' by prof. 
bipartisan Senate group, said the present in areas devastated by the Additional information is available roger h. stuewer, minnesota, center for continuing 
President underscored this nation's April3, 1974 tornadoes, document­from the director of summer ses­education. 
warnings to Cuba by declaring: ing the severity of the storms, Agee sion, University of Notre Dame, +00 p.m. 
"We mean it." Stone said Ford said. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
--seminar, "triplet state stark spectroscopy of 
spoke "in a very convincing tone of 
carbonium molecules" by dr. shan-jen sheng, 
department of chemistry, university of california ­
voice." los angeles, conference room, radiation research 
(*The Observerl r THE
The senator said the President 

building. 

did not disclose any of the repsonses under consideration Night Editor: Bob Brink
5:15p.m. 

--vespers, evensong, log chapel. 
should Cuba continue military Ass't Night Editor: Paul y· 'Ves in Africa or elsewhere. Schappler 7:00p.m. --auditions, st. mary's theatre production of mirror Layout: Claire McCarthy,+, asked if an ivasion of Cuba man, o'laughlin lobby. 
Laura Beth Hartruled out, Stone replied: "All Day Editor: Mary Mungovanof the options that would fit the7 & 10 p.m --film, "romeo and juliet" rudolph nureyev ballet Copy Reader: Mike Villani,offense are being studied."

engineering auditorium. ' 
Barb Langhenry, Gregg Stone, reporting his feeling that Bangs7:30 & 9:30 --film, gangster film classics plus star trek, Iafortune this was "not a bluff", told Editorials: Jim Stevens ballroom, 75 cents includes free popcorn and coke. 
newsmen: "There is no question Features: Gregg Bangs there are contingency plans being Sports: Fred Herbst, Ray
8:00p.m. 

--meeting, sociology club, 203 o'shaughnessy hall. 
O'Brien, Tom Powandadrawn and reviewed at this point. 

Typists: Sue Shellenbarger,
8:00p.m 

--recital, "forgotten vocal music -1900" by susan Judy Arenson, Terri Harlan
Bender asked
stevens, faculty voice recital, little theatre. 
Night Controller: Bob Steinmetz 8:30p.m --meeting, history of science society, "natural 
to serve on panel Photographer: Tony Chifari ,
..
h1story in a new world" by dr. john c. greene Harvey A. Bender, professor of \, Ad Layout: Pat Russell )university of connecticut, center for continuing biology and specialist in develop­education auditorium. 
mental genetics, has been invited 
to serve on a biomedical consultant 12·15 a.m. ~-nocturne night flight, the best in progressive rock, 
panel.
Jazz and blues, tonight's host: brian shanahan, wsnd The panel will study the ethical,
88.9 fm. 
1

legal and social implications of 
advances in biomedical and beha­
vioral research and technology.
House committee urged 
The study is being conducted by the Center for Technology Asses­sment of the New Jersey Institute
by bishops to ban abortion 
of Technology. It is under contract 
WASHINGTON AP-Two promi­has a constitutional right to choose with the National Commission for nent Catholic bishops urged a to have an abortion. the Protection of Human Subjects House subcommittee today to pass The 1973 ruling "is a terrible 
~!a~~~~edical and Behavioral Re-
Ff1iler-ll(Ju~e r=lix 

a constitutional amendment ban­violation" of human rights for the ning abortions from the moment of unborn, said Cardinal Cook, the The 125 panelists, including 2 55 9575 conception. chairman of the Catholic Bishops eminent or well-known ethicists, ­The testimony of Terence Cardi­Committee for Pro-Life Activities. lawyers, public interest represen-r-====~~=:=:E:::!:=:!::~~~~~~~===~=H==:!.,
tatives, medical scientists and
nal Cooke of New York and "Abortion is wrong in and of social scientists, will evaluate N D -SMC FRESHMAN CLASS PRESENTS
Archbishop Joseph L. Bernardin of. itself," added Archbishop Bernar­Cincinnati came one day after the din, president of the National ~f~~~c~:~~natives in various areas "THE FRESHMAN SOCIAL EVENT OF THE YEAR' Supreme Court heard arguments Conference of Catholic Bishops and 
Bender, who is executive direc-
FRESHMAN SPRING

on whether states may curb the the U.S. Catholic conference. "But tor of the South Bend-based Nat­court's 1973 decision that a woman with the approval of law and the ional Center for Law and the sanction of the nation's highest Handicapped, recently served on a 
FLING

ERRATUM court, one million human beings consultative panel which studied fetal research for the national
are destroyed each year by abort­
The Obsener regrets the sen­commission. He is also a member 
MUSIC PROVIDED BY FLIGHT

ion in this country," he said. 
sational headline announcement of of the Yale University Task Force
The bishops testified before a
Prof. William Sexton's lecture on Genetics and Reproduction.
House Judiciary subcommittee 
FRI. , APRIL 2 9 to 1 am
"The Design of Humanistic Work" which has been holding hearings

published in yesterday's Observer. The first three letters of Sexton's 

on whether to amend the Constitu­name were capitalizes in the head­tion of the abortion issue. More line, falsely relating the topic of than 40 proposed amendments sexuality to the subject of Sexton's have been introduced, ranging lecture. T~e Observer regrets any from giving the states absolute unpl'~. «lll~~rn~&mi::nt. which. this power over abortions to a federal oversight may have caused to Prof. 
prohibition on all abortions. 
Sexton. 
RESUME PLACE 
25 Ri\C BOND 

Only $2.55 
insty-prints 

203 N. MAIN SO.BEND, IND 
289-6977 

The Observer is published Mlnday through Friday and \M!ekl y during the surrmer session, except during the 
ACC CONCOURSE 

exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Darre and St. Mary's College. SubScTiptions may be 
$7.00 per couple 

purchased for S.18 ($.10 per sen-ester! fro"Tl The Observer, Box Q, Notre 
Tickets available now from

Dame, Indiana 46556. Sea:Jnd Class postage paid, Notre Darre, IN 46556. 
hall representatives. 





American Revolution Symposium examines the impact on Europe 
by Tom Byrne 
Staff Reporter 
The Department of Modern and Classicla Languages presented the first segment of its symposium on ''The Foreign Response to the American Revolution" before a gathering of 80 onlookers last night in the librarv auditorium. 
"We hope that tonight will help clarify what the American exper­ience has meant to the family of nations," slated Department Chairman Konrad Schaum in his intmductory remarks. "This in turn will help us assess our relationship and committment to thi~ lll'loved land." 
Professor Emeritus Stephen D. Kertesz of the Department of Government and International Studies lectured on two of the announced topics, the impact of the Revolution on European diplomacy and the role of France in the American Revolution. 
The French role 
''France and Spain supported the colonists for reasons of power politics," asserted Kertesz. AI-

Field Marshall Montgomery dies 
By ARTHUR L. GAVSHON Associated Press Writer 
LONDON AP-Britain will give a full-dress military funeral to her famed soldier. Firld Marshal Vis­count Montgomery of Alamein, who died in his sleep Wednesday at age 88. 
Montgomery's death left behind arguments over whether his strat­egy nf swift penetration into Ger­many would have ended World War· II six months sooner than the plan of the supreme allied com­mander. Gen. Dwight D. Eisen­hower. 
A key point of the t·ontroversy grew out of one of Montgomery's hallie plan'> launched in 1944. That wa.'> an operation dubbed "Market (iankn" in which an allied air­hol'lll' force sought to capture key bridge.., in llolland as an opening 
Chess tournament slated for April 3 
by Karl Blettc Staff Reporter 
For all would-be Grand Masters and those with idle interests in the game of chess, the sixth annual Observer Chess Tournament will be held next Saturday and Sunday, April 3 and 4, in the LaFortune basement. 
The tournament. which is spon­~nrcd by the Notre Dame Chess Club, is open to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. John Newcomer, president of the club, described the contest as a "four­round Swill tournament" in which the player who wins the most games wins the tournament. 
Newcomer explained that inter­est in the campus chess tourna­
. men\ was boosted four years ago when Bobby Fis,·her's boisterous style in the famous Fischer-Spas­
dky tournament brought publicity 

to the sport. t BULLA SHED --t
Prospective entrants may regis-t J 
~~·~~~i:.~~:~~~~~~r~~i~:t ?~~:~~~~ tEVERYONE WELCOME~ 
a~ardcd to the top three place t wm ners. 
6 
Thechcssclub,whichispresent-' 
ly composed of serious players, i would like to see those students ' with a c~sual interest join, New-t 
comer sa1d. Meetings are held every Monday f night at 7:00 in room 227 of the i Computing and Math Center, and ' interested may contact John New-a comer at 272-1913 or Jim Stevens f 

at~OIO. ....~.-...~ 

'.,... ..
.,, ....... 
• • a tt ..... _... .... ' ,.___... -·· .... ·-·............. I • r-.-.~. 
though the ideas of the Revolution were "political dynamite," he ex­plained, the two nations saw in the revolt little else but a chance to weaken their rival, England. 
Their support, however, was vital, according to Kertesz. "The colonists would have lost the war without Frence support," he stat­ed, citing overwhelming British superiority in numbers and sup­plies. Kertesz noted that although France held official recognition of until they were certain of the determination of the colonists, 
clandestine  aid  "antedated  the  
Revolution."  
Kertesz also stated.  to the  sur­ 

prise of some panel members, that the ''financial drain'' on the French treasury was an indirect causitive factor in the French Revolution. 
Early foreign diplomacy 
In their early diplomatic over­tures, the Americans, according to Kertesz, labored under the "ob­vious handicap" of being a revolu­tionary regime "in the courts of the monarchs." However, despite these limitations, American diplo­mats "performed superbly in this strange environment." 
"A policy on nonentanglement in 
across the Rhine River into Gcr­many. 
Because of inagequate planning. allied troops suffered heavy casual­tics, among them a division of British paraproops pinned down and captured at the Dutch bridge in Arnhcm when German defenders held off a relief column of tanks. 
Montgomery defended the strategy but later acknowledged that the attack through Holland had not been thoroughly executed. 
The government announced that Montgr)mcry will receive full hon­ors at a service in St. George's chapel at Windsor Castle just west of London on April I. Then he will be buried beneath a 250-ycar-old yew tree in the grounds of the church where he worshipped in the Hampshire village of lsington. 
The colorful battlefield com­mander-micknamed "Monty" by his troops -died with his son David and brother at his bedside. 
"My father died peacefully," 
David said. "He was in no pain." 
Montgomery was reported by familv and friends to be convinced to the end that allied armies could have captured Berlin before the Russians if only Eisenhower had taken his advice. 
From the summer of I 944 when the allies crossed the Seine in France, Montgomery duelled with Eisenhower over the conduct of the campaign. 
Monty wanted to lead a million­man thrust on a limited front to Berlin, by way of the Ruhr. But Eisenhower chose a more general, all·around advance, feeling his suply routes were uncertain and regarding Berlin as a secondary objective. 
The quarrel between the British and American commanders went 
f THIS FRIDAY AND EVERY '6 
_ 
RID
F A Y M f II
OSS 0 
~ 
European wars became basic to foreign policy of the early nation," said Kertesz, pointing to the ab­scence of alliances with Europe until the second world war. 
Kertesz found Jay's Treaty par­ticularly significant because it re­vived arbitration techniques used in Greek city-states but "abandon­ed in the seventeenth and eight­eenth centuries." 
Kertesz concluded his disserta­tion by attributing an enormous role to diplomacy in the early years on the United States. "Great Statesmen and diplomats recogniz­ed the foreign interests of America nad acted forcefully." 
Austrian-American relations 
Consul General Eduard Adler, from the Austrian Consulate in Chicago, spoke on the first decade of Austrian-American relations, emphasizing that the two nations experienced difficulties communi­cating. He noted that the monar­chy in Austria was concerned about the spread of revolts similar to America's. 
Adler indicated that Austrian efforts to mediate the dispute aided the colonists' position diplomatical­
on for months, reaching a point wehn Eisenhower considered tiring Montgomery. 
The brisk, wiry Mongomery and his jaunty black beret gained world fame almost overnight in October 1942 when his British 8th Army smashed through the Nazi forces at Alamein in North Africa for the first major allied victory of the war. 
Mech Engineering
• 
h opportunities made possible by the as the embodiment of the hope for undergrad researc change in he balance of power." 
human freedom. An inquiry conducted by Lan-The symposium concluded this 0 ffered for summer zinger of various foreign libraries 
morning with three speakers and a · 't f N t D • yielded a common reply: "Outside final discussion.
The Untverst yo o re arne s Department of Aerospace and -----------------­Mechanical Engineering will offer tt'RMANDO IS NOW lOCATED NEAR CAMPUSf a ten-week Undergraduate ResearchjiT G .....t 
Participation Program this sum­
mer.This program is open to engin­eering and science sophomores and juniors interested in COnducting 
independent research in energy
related fields. The program is 
sponsored by the National Science Foundation and each student par­ticipant will receive a tax-free 
stipend of $900. "This program is particularly suited to area students attending schools elsewhere during the academic year, but wishing to broaden their training in indepen­dent studies this summer while they reside at home," Dr. K.T. yang, chairman of the Department of Aerospace and Mechanical En­gineering and program director, said. 
Students interested in the pro­gram, which begins June 7 and ends August 11, should direct their inquiries to Yang at room 306, Engineering Building, University of Notre Dame, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 or phone 219/283-7466. 
a 
A J ' 
T 5: 5 p.m. t 
6
f 
d b d • i 
OWe  Y  Inner  f•  
_  ___  
~._..~ ...... ~  
. . .  '  t I·  
v·  ~,_ •  h"t""· •"" ~ t•  

.: :. n . ... '4 ,. , :• ! ·I • ~ r' •. 'J.

r. •·: 
.. '' .. \ 
the observer 
3 

Professor Stephen Kertesz spoke last night on aspects of the American Revolution in the first segment of "The Foreigh Response to the American Revolution" svmoosium [Photo bv tonv Chifaril. 
ly. He further explained that a the English speaking world, the posture of "armed nuetrality" declaration had very little distri­protected important shipments to bution." Lanzinger explained that the colonies during the war. After it was "very unlikely" that the the revolution, Adler stated that document had much impact on the the "ineptitude" of the Articles of liberal democratic movements in Confederation. damaged the Amer-Europe. ican position throughout Europe. "The long range, indirect for­
eign response to the declaration as 

Tbe Declaration's Impact embodied in the ideals of America 
has been phenomenal," argued 

The final speaker of the evening Lanzinger, noting massive immi­was Professor Klaus Lanzinger, gration to the United States. who also coordinated the program. "Certainly the idea of America He considered the foreign response must have loomed large in the to the Declaration of Indepen­hearts of these people who came dence. here with such great sacrifice." 
"The world did not listen," Lanzinger concluded that "evo­asserted Lanzinger, "Or if they lution" of America has had much did, not forth~ right reason. The more impact than the revolution, European nations sought trade and that the world looks to America 
f 0 JVE YOU THE CUl OR SiTYlE YOU WAN If \ 0-wzanLfu'j_ 3c.t!L;.::.7.. <$' ~lf<ti7. ~~tc1JL~ ..J::..~/;'-'/1 :' 
vPEN SIX DAYS A WEEK 
Me' THRU FRIDAY 8 TO 5 30 S~TUfHJA\' l! TO ·I 

~ PERSQ,J\.T ALJZED SERVJC'C: a
f 1 ~rt C::. f 
~ ARMANDQ FEMIA 143.7 N. tRONVvOOD DR a f PHONE 277·06'5 SOUTH BEND INDIANA ' 
l FOR APPOINTMENT f 
' 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

SHA-NA-NA 
with special guests Ace and MartinMull 
-------._ ---·-----­
.Monday, April 5, 7:30 pm at ACC 
Tickets on sale at . the Ace-&student ullion-~sJ $4--&-S3 
•. t.', ··-', 


Reds draw big despite small park 

CINCINNATI AP -In the par­lance of the theater, the Cincinnati Reds are boffo at the boxoffice. 
That means that despite operat­ing in the second smallest major league baseball market, the World Champions have passed the million mark in advance ticket sales and could become the second big league team to draw two million fans in four consecutive seasons. 
Reds ticket sales which had been 

worth $1,200 for the past three "It's the only I can get a 1 ' good seat.:· sa~d Lanier, in a
Earthquake •ocks South years. 
telephone mtervtew. A former 
MURRAY· Ky. An earth 
h' h d between tremordw tc mtheasuR~eht le 
3.5an 4on e tc er sea , 
according to geologists at Memphis
State University, was felt in West­ern Kentucky as well as Western Tennessee, Southeast Arkansas andNorthern Mississippi Wednes­day night. 
David Lundsden, assistant prof­essor of geology at Memphis State, rated the quake "very mild," and said there was "no reason for am·one to worry about it." 
The National Weather Service 
forecast office in Memphis report­
ed the first tremor there at 6:33 
p.m. CST. 
"The weather service shook for about 10 seconds rather strongly with minor tremors for another minute or so," the weather service reported. Another brief light tremor was noticed at 7:00 p.m., CST." the report added. 

"There were some tremors here 
in Murray," police said. "I didn't 
feel them here on the ground 
floor,'' Simpson added, •'but there 
was a detective directly above me on the second floor who felt it. All the reports that I got came from people in taller buildings or out on higher locations like on hills and they were all within the Murray city limits.'' 
Murray State University secur­ity spokesman Cindy Dam said one dormatory residence director called to ask if an evacuation of the building should be ordered, "but we said it wouldn't be necessary. 
While no injuries were reported 
as a result of the tremoir, some 
damage to utility lines and tele­
phone circuits was reported in 
Western Tennessee, the Jones­
boro, Ark. area and in several small 
communities of Northern Miss­
tsstppi. 
Switch to metric system doubtful in Great Britain 
LONDON AP-A behind-the­
scenes hassle in Parliament indi­
cates that Britons are clinging to 
their pounds, ounces, feet and 
inches-afraid of a planned convers­
ion to the metric system. 
The labor government, threaten­ed by a revolt of its own members who claim that compulsory metrifi­cation would push up prices, quietly postponed debate Tuesday night on its Weights and Measures Bill. 
The delay was "to allow time for further consulations," cabinet min­ister Edward Short told the House of Commons. 
The bill is designed to make Britain metric by 1980. The Metrification Board, set up to tell the nation how to think in metric terms, admits a gradual changeov­er begun in 1965 is ''running several years late." 
In America, President Ford dec­lared the United States "an island in a metric sea" and signed a bill last December making increased use of the metric system a national policy and creating a Metric Board to oversee voluntary conversion. 
Several U.S. states have passed laws on education in the metric system, which is widely used in industry and commerce. Ford said more than 90 percent of the world's people now use the metric system in their daily lives. 
In Britain, about a score of Labor lawmakers told the government 



c;FvAND 

proceding at a healthy clip anyway, are now growing like Jack's bean stalk since the team's World Series triumph. Fans have already pur­chased one-fourth of the season's available tickets two weeks before the start of the 1976 season. 
"Our mail order and group sales have doubled," said Dale Stoeber, director of ticket sales. One of the largest orders was filled Tuesday when Col. Harlan Sanders, on fried 
privately they would not vote for the measures bill. Many of them opposed Britain's entry into the European Common Market, which in 1971 ordered all members to go metric within seven years. 
Opposition Conservatives, who also plan to vote against the bill, charge the government with failing to provide information on convers­ion dates and consumer safeguards against price increases. The bill's opponents would prefer voluntary instead of compulsory conversion. 
More than half of Britain's engineering output is now metric, the construction industry is almost completely metric and food manu­facturing and the clothing industry is changing over. But metrification is in trouble in the nation's stores and shops. 
chicked fame, picked up over $18,000 worth of tickets for a promotion. 
Ticket sales office people say they have been swamped with out-of-state fans who are seeking summer apartments. 
Among them is Mark Lanier, a 31-year-old funeral home director from Denton N.C. 
Though 500 miles away, he has been buying four season tickets 
New ~ork Yankee f~n, L~nier said he swttched to Concmnatt because "they had the players that capture 
· ·

Don I. s speaks to RepubII.can cIub 
by Leo Buchignani Staff Reporter 
Jack Donis, Republican candi­date for the nomination to U.S. Congress in opposition to incum­bent John Brademas, spoke last night to a small group of College Republican Club members about his bid for the House of Represen­tatives. 
In his speech, he focused on the irresponsibility of the "18-year incumbent, Mr. Brademas, who is no longer responsive to the needs of our community." "Mr. Brad­mas," he emphasized "talks about balancing the budget here in Indiana, but goes back to Washing­ton and votes for almost every spending bill that comes along. The· inflation which is destroying our country is a result of the huge deficits Mr. Brademas and his established colleagues continue to create." 
Brademas is chairman of a committee set up by Congress to improve its image, Donis noted. ''They have hired an expensive media coordinator to boost their standing with the public, which we have to pay for!" Donis also objected to Brademas's "involve­ment in the power politics of Washington. He has been there too long." 
Later, in an informal question and answer session, Donis promis­ed to tke clear stands on issues. He came out against gun control, saying it would "take guns from citizens, but not from criminals." On abortion, he stated that there should be ''no interference with the right to life from the moment of conception except in cases of rape, incest, and threat to life.'' He claimed he is for legislation to 
~EAL JV\.USIC~ FOOD J\ND DR1N~. 
Homemade Food, Popular Prices & No Computers 

t**********************************
* SPRING CONCERT ~ 
* * 
a NOTRE DAME CONCERT BAND i * * 
~ FRIDAY MARCH 26 ~ 
* * 
: Athletic and Convocation Center : ;* University of Notre Dame ~* 
# Admission Free ~ 
* 8:15pm * 
*********************************** 


129 north michigan street, downtown south ber.d 
OPENING THE WEEK OF MARCH 15 
AppearIng soon: Sugarfoot, Max Bunster & qthers Fri., Sat., March 19, 20 The Bluegrass Alliance Thur., Fri., Sat., March 25, 26,27 Collegiate Jazz Festival Fri., Sat., April 2, 3 
09E'N"l"N"c; CELESR..A.TIONs A9RlL q,10 
with the string band of Martin, Bogen, and the Armstrongs featuring blues harpist Big Walter Horton Sat., April 9 
your interest." It was tough, he 
admits to turn his back on the 
Yankees because "Mickey Man-

tie was always my idol." Reds' attendance has jumped almost 200,000 a year for the past . three seasons, setting all-time marks each year. 
Not even the most lopsided 
divisional race ever cooled the Reds 
fans, who flocked to Riverfront 
Stadium at a pace of an. average 
30,874 per game. They twtce broke 
a previous single game high when 
the Los Angeles Dodgers came to 
town. 
Only once did the attendance fall 
below 12,000. 
Cincinnati's success? "It's a 

combination of the team, the stadium, easy access and fan interest," said Stoeber. 
"The amazing thing is our average last year more than the capacity of old Crosley Field," he said. The Reds moved from Crosley in 1970 and have averaged 
1.9 million for the past six seasons. 
The demand for tickets could push the Reds over the Dodgers in the standings at the Ticket office. The Dodgers have led the majors in attendance the past three years 
with two million plus, but narrowly outdrew Cincinnati a year ago. Los Angeles lured 2.5 million fans to Dodger Stadium in 1975 to Cincinnati's 2 3 million 
reduce the size of government, and said he believes that control should reside in local governments as much as possible. 
Donis is a citizen of Elkhart, Ind, who has been active in a number of civic organizations. He has won the Jaycees' Outstanding Young Man award in two different com­munities, Elkhart and Madison, Wis. Donis has headed fund drives for the United Fund, Junior Ach­ievement, and the Elkhart County Retarded Center. 
The College Republican Club then went on to other business, announcing a meeting April 7, when Bob DuComb, local state legislator, will report on progress in Indianapolis. Also, club elec­tions will be held. The club members decided to continue dis­tribution of the flyers on issues which have appeared at times around the campus, and to circu­late a newsletter to members. 

Committees for Ford andReagan are being planned to work for the Indiana primary, May 4th. Those interested in working for either candidate are urged to contact the club by acalling 283-1376. 
THE 
1\ntgbts 
NJo:W CONCEPT in hairstyling for Men l.OCATED on our lower level with Its o"n private entranre way. COMPLETE PRIVACY in our individual styling units. SIP COFf'EE by the fin>place in a relaxed atmosphere. FAST SERVICE for carefree cuts and blow styles. WE FEATURE RK products. 

MANICURES for men $4 PRECISION CUTS $5 
$4.50
HAIRCUTS $4 BLOW STYLING 
PERMANENT WAVING bv NATURAL MAN $25 $1 .00 OFF A PRECISION CUT WITH BLOW STYLING WITH YOUR ND OR SMC ID 
~uttn'g (a!)tlt
54533 TERRACE LANE 
Tues., Wed., Sot. 8:30 -5:30, Thurs. & Fri. 8:30-8:30 
PHONE 277 -1691 


WANT TO DO SOMETHING DIFFERENT? ANDGETAWAYFROM IT ALL? -ANNOUNCING­THE BULL MOOSE 
PARTY 
·FEATURING­
A REALLY CLASSY DISCOTHEQUE LIVE MUSIC BY "SAGE" ALL THE BEER YOU CAN DRINK! HUGE DANCE FLOOR TRANSPORTATION 
THIS SAT. 
8:00 P.M. -1:00 A.M. 
AT THE ELKHART ELECTRIC CIRCUIT 
TIX: $3 PER PERSON ON SALE AT -FLANNER LOBBY 5-6:30 THUR. & FRI. -SMC DORMS -ND WOMEN DORMS 
CO-SPONSORED BY: 
FLANNER HALL SMC SOCIAL COMM LEMANS SOCIAL COMM 


If • ,. ~ • • ~ "' • 
t I • t I lo t t ,.. f t ' f ' ' • ' 
• , • J 





----------~--------­
T.:__h_:__u..:...r_sd_a....:.y...:..,_M_a_r_c_h_2_5_,_19_7_6 ____~t~he obServer 
5

Sophmore elections re-instated 
Class election details outlined for next week 
Dinner and 6) Senior Fellow Award. Grace also stressed that success­Senior Class President Augie guidelines. Campaigning will begin the Freshmen have the Freshman 
have class officers

Grace has just released the details Friday April 2, and end midnight Ycar Office. Grace said, "they Two events. which recently ful must be able to for this year's class elections. Monday, April 5. would not have any set responsibil· become traditional, are the Senior work in co-operation with Student but would be encouraged Picnic and the last home football Government and that of St. Mary's.
Primaries will be held on Tuesday. ities. to 
A slate ot officers must win the
April 6 with voting in the residence start working out their own activ­weekend including the Death The present senior class president anti dining halls. If necessary the primary election by SO per cent of ities." March. The senior class has also encourages all students to consider the total vote plus one vote for the taken a greater involvement in the running for a position adding that
run-off elections will be held Thurs­

majority. Otherwise, the two tickets "Class events are so instrumental honorary doctorate award. The sen­''s~rving as a cl~ officer is truly aday, April 8. 
with the largest vote totals will enter in that they socially bring together ior class officers must also work umque experi~ which requiresGrace announced that the organ­
the run-off election. Grace stated, everyone in a class. I think it's closely with the Senior Bar man­much work. bul nrovides greatization of this year's elections will be 
"this was the first year class officers ridiculous to wait until you're a agement. personal satisfaction."slightly changed and will serve as a 
would be elected by a majority." He junior before you have the opportun­precedent for ~uture y7ars. f!' slate hoped in this way the elected ticket ity to get to know people," heof officers wtll constst of class would be ''truly representative of added.
president, vice-president, secretary 

the class.''
and treasurer. The sole responsibility of the 
Each slate must pick up petitions Sophomore class officers will also junior class officers is planning the at the student government office be elected after a three year Junior Parents Weekend. All other starting Mo-nday. March 29. These absence. Three years ago the class events such as the junior class must be returned by 5:00 p.m. officers felt that sophomore class formal and Happy Hour are left up Thursday, April I. Fifty signatures officers were not needed and they to the discretion of the class officers. and student J.D. numbers are discontinued them. But Grace dis­The senior class officers have rl·quired for each slate _of offtc~rs. agrees and stated "as it now stands many more responsibilities. They 
A meeting of all candtdates wtll be the sophomores are the only class include: I) senior trip, 2) senior 
held on Thursday. April I at 7;00 with no organized structure. Seniors formal. 3) senior week activities, 4) 
p.m. It will outline all campatgn and Juniors have class officers and graduation. 5) Senior Women's 

-=-=-=--~ ROCK LP'S AT ~ A 

Supreme Court decision 
Seniority goes to black victims 
ROCK BOTTOM PRICE! 


~~r~ca~~~s~ct~~~~~~i\o :)~~:~ si~-c.~~~~ r,-__ 
"'upcr-scniority" for black truck 
drivers hired in recent years by 

the Bowman Transportation Co. t (RUDOLf NURYEV) f 
STEREOLPS 

The federal Civil Rights Act empowers federal courts to deal f t with job discrimination by ordering A f workers hired, reinstated, given ' 7 & 1Q pmback pay "or any other relief as the f t court deems appropriate." A 
The divided court on Wednes-' TONIG f day found that retractive seniority t H T A was "appropriate." ' 

Plus Many More of Your Favorite Artists 

"Without an award of seniority f f 
and Titfes to Choose From! 

dating from the time at which he t E g·ne r·ng A d"1tor·1um , 
PRICES GOOD THRU MARCH 30

was discriminatorily refused em-n I e I U ' 
ployment, an individual...will nev-f f er obtain his rightful place in the f Ad . . F NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
hierarchy of seniority" the court mISSIOn ree t said. 
L
ThecourtalsodisagreedSto3 in __________________, 
,.................................................l 
t TRY THE LIBRARY'S NEW \.\.~ l{B~ OUR COMIC STRIP WILL t t STEAMED HOT DOGS & ~.\\U U ~.b START AGAIN TUES. + + POLISH SAUSAGE ·.~~ / MARCH 30 + : DANCE ALL NIGHT TO ~··· WEHAtfSOME : : THE LATEST DISCO THURS. MARCH 2S DISCOURAGING _: 
HITS & THE NEWS THIS WEEK_!_ AND + 
GREATEST OLDIES 7 & 7 WEREN'T 1)\J_f~NNY t 
+
CHECK OUT THE NEW $.25 7-11 MOODS. : 

t. 
REMODELING .."...... 


····················································~ 
WASHINGTON AP -The Sup­reme Court ruled on Wednesday that black victims of job discrimin· ation should be granted special seniority even though this gives them an advantage over previously hired workers when it comes time for layoffs. 
The 5-3 decision applies to workers who sought jobs, were turned down because of their race and were subsequently hired by the same employer. The court said they should ordinarily be given seniority dating from their original rejection. 
In other action the court ruled in favor of the armed services in two cases, holding that enlisted men arc not entitled to legal counsel in summary courts-martial and that l'Ommanders have broad authority to keep political campaigners off of their posts. 
Another of the court's rulings may force hospital pharmacies to charge walk-in customers higher prices than hospital patients for prescription drugs or turn away 
such customers entirely. 
The employment discrimination dedsion stem\ from complaints of blacks that. having been the last to be hired. they arc also the first to be tired. 
The court reversed a decison of 

rnictlae~s 
nair st~linQ
etc. 
FOR APPT. CALL: 272-7222 18381 EDISON RD. AT SO. BEND AVE. 

_R_O_M_E_O_AN_D_J_U_Ll-ET---,t 
holding that servicemen do not have a constitutional right to be represented by attorneys in sum­mary courts martial, which are military trials for minor offenses punishable by confinement for up to one month. If a serviceman wants to be represented by an attorney, he has the right to refuse trial by summary court martial and choose to go through a special court martial instead. 
By a 6 to 2 vote, the justices upheld the action of the comman­der of Fr. Dix in New Jersey in barring Dr. Benjamin Spock and hissupportersfrom campaigning on 
the base dunng the 1972 presiden­
tial campaign. 
By another 6-2 vote, the court held that sales by hospital pharma­cies to outside customers are not exempt from federal restrictions on discriminatory pricing. Other drug stores had complained that the hospital pharmacies were harming their business by offering cut-rate price to former patients and to doctors for family of office use. 
The court said the hospital pharmacies could correct the situa­tion by either not making such sales or by adjusting the prices to comply with the law. 

...-------------------~ 



'CAN 'bU HELP MR.CARTER.DOC?-HIS SMILE IS SlUCK... ' 
1. 
--------------------------------------~------------J 
*T~d.Q~t~~rver
Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and EDITORIAL BOARD St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policieS of either Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief inst1tution The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Dan Sanchez Managing Editor Editorials represent the opiniOn or a ma)onty ot the f:dltonal Board. G B Executive Editor Commentanes are the views of individual editors. Opinions, cartoons and Vr~~g b:ngs Executive Editor regular columns express the views of their authors. Column space IS pa Hur Editorial Editor
/s 
available to afll members of t~e community •. and letters a~e encouraged to B~~ ~;~~~ Executive News Editor 
promote the ree expreSSIOn o varying opiniOns on campu · 
News  28l-8h61  Business: 283-7471  Ed•torials. 283_1715  
Bus1nes~ Manager  Tom Modglin  Advertising Manager  Tom Whelan  
Thursday, March 25, 1976  

opinion 

Playboy Opened My Eyes 
----------------------robert jacques 
The following is a conversation which took place between myself and Hildebrand Bloop, a Notre Dame student, who is announcing that he is a practising heterosexual. 
H.B. For years I have hidden my true natur·c from other people for fear of repercussion from them and society as a whole. I have been forced to express a natural part of myself only in corners and shadows where there was safety in dark­ness. The person I presented mvself as to others -friends, family and rector-was not the true me. By announcing that I am a hetero­sexual. I will end the pretentious fraud. I am what I am. I want to be myself. Others will have to accept me for what I am. Me: How long have you known that you are a heterosexual? H.B.: I knew years ago when I saw my first Playboy fold-out. I was filled with a fiery passion as I stared for hours at the pictures. Thinking there to be nothing abnormal with my desires, I asked my mother for asubscription for my birthday. Between the cracks of the whip and the cries ''But he isn't even engaged. let alone married!" I knew I was different. She took my pictures. I hid my true self. I began to make contacts with members of the opposite sex. We were never caught. In time my parents be­lieved I was cured. That was long ago. In between are years of repression and deceit. Now they will soon be over. I want to be human. And free. Me: How will you react to social pressures? 

P.O. Box Q 
Dear Editor: 
We have just returned from the Stanford-Dillon interhall hockey in which we saw Dillon reach the nadir of poor sportsmanship. We cannot say that it surprised us, but tonite they really outdid them­selves. Their fans did not have much to cheer about, so they took out their frustration upon the officials and upon the Stanford players by spitting on them and by throwing objects on the ice. Stanford let 4-0 with a few minutes H.B.: I will try to approach each situation individually and person­ally. I want people to learn that there is more than one way to express human sexuality , and that there is no one way better than any others. Me: What about pressure from the administration and vour rector? And what about University sexual­

ity  and  parietal  rules  which,  by  
your admission, you violate?  
H.B.:  I admit  the future  will  be  

trying. I guess I will try to get the University to see the light, to open its mind, and to put away its sexual guillotine. Even in view of the threatened punishments and even expulsion. I know I must try. I am sure that with the help of God and my religion I will succeed. Me: Are you Catholic? H.B.: Yes. Me: Considering the Church's condemnation of heterosexuality outside of marriage, how can you claim to be a member of the Church? H.B.: I am very religious and I am a Catholic. Disagreement on one issue does not necessitate incom­patibility. We both must be flex­ible. The Church is just beginning to do this and still has much changing to do to catch up with the ways of the times. Me: Can a person like you have a meaningful love relationship with a member of the opposite sex without introducing exploitation? H.B.: Yes. of course. Me: How do you know? H.B.: Because I have done so for years. Me: Are you a member of any heterosexual organizations? 
left in the game when Dillon walked off the ice; the "Big Red" took this act from some other "Reds" whom we all know and love. After their forfeiture one fan 
tried  to  assault  the  referee,  and  
another  told  him  they  would  be  
waiting  outside  for  him.  As  a  

result, a man at the ACC had to call the police to give the referee the assurance of a safe passage home. 
This sort of behavior typifies the Dillon spirit. They are bold and brave when in groups. but when 
Maureen Flynn Campus Editor 
Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor Don Reimer Copy Editor Tim 0' Reiley Features Editor Fred Herbst Sports Editor Mary Egan Contributing Editor 
alone they run and hide. They have this grave misconception that their teams are infallible; whether win or lose, they have to be the biggest bunch of losers we have ever seen. If we had a nickel for every time that Dillon acted like this, we could cover Stanford with gold leaf. Dillon, clean up your act. 
Jerry Majewski 
Bob Ryan 
Tom Stoy 
Norm Greer H.B.: Although I once belonged to one such campus group -it is well disguised from unsuspecting eyes ­I realized they were cheap and fake. I quit. My Jove and sexuality will always be shared only with a person. not a club. Me: Do you see yourself as a liberator of your kind? H.B.: No, not at all. I work for no movement or group. I want only what belongs to me -the right to be myself. Me: Do you consider yourself to be less than human or psychologically imparied? H.B.: Why, no. Of course not. Do you think you are? Me: Why. no. Of course not. If you had a choice between being hetero­sexual or normal, which would you choose? 
H.B.: !make no choice. I am what I am. Me: Is there a typical heterosexual attitude? H.B.: If there is one, it must be the fear of being abused by those who don't understand. Other than that, there is none. We are only people. Me: What about your future after you reveal your name? H.B.: Many people will be shocked. I will probably Jose some of my friends. But then. I guess they weren't really my friends. A few professors might hassle me. Certainly the administration will. No doubt that a close eye will be kept on me at all times. I look to the future when all people will accept each other and find beauty. not ugliness. in the variety of ways of being a human being. Me: Thank you for your time. H.B.: I thank you for yours. 
DOONESBURY 
by Garry Trudeau 


seriously folks~~~~~ 
Fingering Gun Control 

--iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiart buchwald 
WASHINGTON--The House Judiciary Committee in its infinite wisdom sent the latest handgun control bill back to a subcommittee for further "revision." thus probably killing it for another year. After a committee vote of 18 to 14 to send it to the floor, the National Ritlc Assn. put on so much pressure that three congressmen 
reversed their previous positions and that was the end of this year's hope fl'l' a safer and saner America. 
When my friend Mindcrmann heard the news on the radio he called me. "You owe me $5. I told you Congress was too yellow to pass a gun control bill." 
"That is not nice to say. The committee probably voted their consciences." I said. 
"Yeh. right after they got the mailgrams from the NRA. Listen, you 'rc living in a dream world if you think Congress is ever going to pass any kind of a handgun control law." 
·'I can always hope.'' I said. 
"The trouble with you bleeding hearts is that you're going about it the wrong way. You're trying to outlaw weapons that are as sacred to an American as underarm deodorants. You have to figure out some way of letting the people keep their guns. but at the same time do no harm to anyone." 
"What do you suggest, wise guy?" I asked Mindermann. "Well. you're going to think I'm crazy. but I have an idea. You 
cut off everybody's trigger finger at birth." "You are crazy." "Hear me out. We can't do anything with the present 
generation. but we can save future generations from ki11ing each other through accidents and anger and despair.'' ''But you can't cut off someone's trigger finger at birth." I protested. 
"Why not? The Constitution gives everyone the right to bear arms. which is the main argument the NRA throws at us a11 the time. But there is nothing in the Constitition that says an American has to have 10 fingers." 
"But. Mindermann," I said, "it sounds so gory." 
"It's a simple operation. Any doctor can perform it. The baby would never know it. When he got old enough the parents could explain to him or her that since Congress would never pass a law prohibiting the manufacture and sale of guns. the only road open to them was to pass one forbidding any American to have a trigger finger." 
"But the gun manufacturers and the NRA would be up in arms if you tried something like that.·· "Why would they? We're not saying they can't se11 guns or ammunition. They can do anything they damn please." "But what good would a gun or ammunition be if no one has a finger to squeeze the trigger?" 
Mindermann said. "Now you're getting the point. Listen, I've researched this thing. I took a po11 of the House Judiciary Committee and the Senate, and not one of them had any strong feeling about fingers. There is no finger lobby to speak of. In fact, everyone I talked to said they couldn't see any reason for their constituents to object to having one finger removed providing the 
government paid for it under Medicare.'' ''1'11 have to admit it sounds simpler than trying to get a handgun control bi11 through Congress.'' 
"It's the only answer to the problem." Mindermann said. "The slogan for the bill would be, 'If you can't take the trigger out of the gun, take the trigger finger out of the boy.'' 
''1'11 make a deal with you, Mindermann. 1'11 suggest it in my column, but you have to answer the mail." "'Deal. And don't forget to send the $5." 

Thursday, March 25, 1976 
____the observer 


should women take on a larger role 
in the catholic church? 
christie herlihy 

Edilor's note: This is the first article in a vestments and celebrate the sacraments. "People need ministry but we arc officially recognized. They lack the power series by Christie Herlihy dealing with the The women's movement is devoted to the powerless to provide," said Mary Schaefer to administer the sac:·amcnts which ne­question of whether women have a place In meaning of human personhood and women in her homily at the ordination conference. 
gates the worth of thdr role in ministry.

feel today that the church ignores their "Behind us lies the pain of a call we may
the Church. "By listening to the confessions of the 
presence daily and does not answer their not heed, and the tears and sorrow of many 
dying, I have established a rapport with

needs. women since that time when women first 
that person. What should I say to him after 

"Will serious women drop out of church. ministered to Jesus. Before us stretches 
he has poured out his heart to me'?" asks"If women'-; experience today has told 

withdraw their energies because no sup­an uncertain period of testing," she said. 
Sr. Elizabeth Carroll. member of thethL·m anything it has told them that they. 

port, no home is to be found there but only
no lcs,; then men. must lay claim to their Center of Concern. "I want to help you but 
tokenism. half-way gestures. pious words
identity as human persons, resisting the you have to tell what you told me to a
CHURCH PRESSED in solemn assemblies of men?", asks Sr. 
priest?"

tcmpta~!on to remain forever without Anne Carr. assistant dean of the Divinity One sister who works in a school for'>elves. The Catholic Church feels the pressure
School of the University of Chicago. "We exceptional children felt that her duties toto ordain not only because of a socialThose words might be those of a ·ask the church. its all-male heirarchy and the children were hindered without sacra­awareness but because of the acutehomL·mak~·r. a secretary. or a female its male-dominated diocesan structures not mental powers. No priest in her area newshortage of priests. The top ten religiouspolitician but they are the words of Sr. ju&t to permit our thinking in new ways but how to respond physically and orally to theorders noted a 20 per cent decrease inMargaret Farley as she addressed the to join with us." 
needs of the retarded children to whom shemembership over the past ten years.

Ordination of Women Conference held in administered daily.
This new consciousness has made wo­Confronted with this fact, bishops have
Detroit. 
In order for ministry to have meaning it

men aware that they arc doing the work of begun inviting sisters to serve virtually as 
must be "blessed." and this blessing

Not L'vcn the church is sacred to women a male clergy but not receiving equal curates in the parishes, visiting the sick, comes in the form of ordination. says Sr.
"ho question their role in society. As their blessing or recognition. Women feel called distributing the Eucharist. giving marriage Kathleen Hughes. a theology graduatel'llll~ciousncss grows. women arc no longer to ful!ill a grater role in the church, to counseling. But although the duties of student at Notre Dame and participant inl'Oilll'nt to sit quietly in the pew or to tend assume leadership positions within their women ministers have naturally expanded the ordination conference.
bakl' -;aks. but feel called to don .___priestly_:____ growing_ ministries. 
_ to a quasi-priestly capacity, women arc not 

"We must move towards difk ..cntiating the ministircs and ofticially blcs ng these forms of sC"rvice.'' 
The Catholic Church recognize the need
monticello: 
for women to assume leadership 1sitions. Pope Paul spoke of the rise • women within the church as a "sign of I · times" and a "call of the spirit", .:cl 1ing the personhood doctrines of the Se('·l!ld Vati­can Council. Archbishop Bcrnad 1 ret1ect­ed this cunsciousness at the National Council of Catholic Bishops (N(', B) warn­

jefferson's unwillingness 
to accept the status quo 
ing that "the church will suffer ndeed it will be betrayed, if women arc gi ·n only a secondary place in its life and n .sion." 

tim o'reiley 
TRADITION RESISTS CHA GE The tourists will come in record numbers had to live in house of these dimensions. this year. almost as if on a pilgrimage. The Yct the proportions of Monticello arc very 
Though the church recognize~ he spirit hunt will begin for parking spots; they will subtle and dignified. It blends harmoni­ures of ingenuity and unwillingness to 
of awareness. it feels thrcatcnt I by the buy the souvenirs and shuffle their feet ously with the surroundings instead of accept the status quo. 
demand to change 2,000 ye.• rs of a male-dominated tradition. p,,pe Paulth~ough the tours. But somehow. the trying to overwhelm them. Rooms and Indeed, Jefferson's entire life was denied the Vatican Commission on the Rolemajesty of Thomas Jefferson and his facilities to accomodate everything from dedicated to these goals. In his twenties, of Women in the Church and Society toMonticello will stave off all the gaudiness music to meteorology were built into the he taught himself law and was elected to study the ordination issue.

of the Biccntcnniel extravaganza. house. everything for a full and complete the Virginia House of Burgesses. At the Perched on a hill some 850 feet over the life can be found on the estate. age of 33, he wrote the Declaration of 
Feeling that church silence might enco­Virginia countryside, the home holds a Jefferson's active imagination shows up Independence, then served as the wartime 
urage "unrcasonalbe hopes ami expecta­tions". Bernadin reaffirmed the church'sGovernor of Virginia, in its quest for teachings that women arc not to befreedom from British domination. During ordained to the priesthood. He appealed tohis presidency, the Louisiana Purchase was tradition. quoting the report of a 1972 made, while peace and a general prosper­NCCB committee on Pastoral Hesearch. 

ity firmed the foundation of the fledgling 
The committee ruled to maintain the status country. One year before he died, he 
quo "until a contrary theological develop­realized his final goal of the founding of the 
ment takes place, leading ultimately to a University of Virginia. All this time he 
clarifying statement from the magis­held one goal: finding a way to improve life 
terium." Women believe that such a developmentand above all, to lessen the tyranny over has taken place but the Catholk Churchthe mind. 

refuses to recognize it.

On the side, he taught himself an The Priestly ordination of eleven Episco­assortment of languages. He taught palian women in .July of 1974, and the himself to be one of the greatest architects 
designation of International Women's Year of his time. Advances in agriculture 
sparked the organization of the Ordination introduced by him helped the production of 
Confcrcnce--"Womcn in Future Priest­many American farms. He kept abreast of 
hood Now: A Call for Action." One of the and furthered numerous scientific (astron­
goals of the conference was to force the omy. chemistry. physics) and mathematic­
Catholic Church to acknowledge a contro­versy which the Anglican Church firstal advances. He was also recognized for raised in 1927 at the World Council ofhis talents in music, anthropology. and his Churches and has been settling ever since. 

great contribution to the philosophy of the Thirty of the 33 largest Protestant andAmerican Revolution. Very little slipped Orthodox denominations ordain women. 
by the exceptional mind of Jefferson. 
"The conference is both a moment of Despite all his great work, he died a very 
history--a moment of truth and justice. and

commanding view of the surrounding area, 
in the many innovations incorporated into poor man, at times relying on help from his a global. life-giving process for themuL·h as Jefferson did--as he stood over the the structure. He designed the 7-day clock church,·· said Sr. Donna Quinn, a memberneighbors to pay debts. Though manyevents of his day. The peace and beauty for his front hall that also told the date, of the conference task force. "Women arcopportunities came to acquire wealth, he arc still there, too, just as they were two along with a fold-up ladder which he asked again to lead, to call for Action, toresisted them all, since he thought it ahundred years ago. Urban areas have not renew the church. The spirit has moved,climbed to wind the clock. The rooms on privilege to serve the American people.
yet come close enough to seem consequen­
the church is responding."

either end of the house are octagonal in Notwithstanding all his accomplish­tial. The setting, if nothing else, should The response to the conference wasshape so he built a special brick mold just ments, he directed that his epitaph shouldremind us of our heritage. 
overwhelming. The location was changedfor those walls. His closets were among read, "Here was buried Thomas Jeffer­from the University of Detroit to a nearbyThe house itself reminds one greatly of the first anywhere, as were the dumbwait­son. Author of the Declaration of hotel in order to increase enrollment toits owner, architect and builder. The er, all-weather walkways to the kitchen and American Independence, Virginia Statute 1200 members from 44 states and sixdesign is relatively simple, not. too large or storerooms, and storm windows. 

of Religious Freedom, Father of the foreign countries. One hundred womenimposing; no doubt many of Europe's Besides a scientific genius, these feat­freely acknowledged that the spirit wasUniversity of Virginia." A legacy such asroyalty would have felt degraded if they ures exemplify the tauted American feat-calling them personally to the priesthood.
this needs nothing more. . 

P"---------------------------~------­
t ·-.f 
Thursday, March 25, 1976
the observer
8 


In loco Parentis? Graduation is just weeks away ... 
Supreme court defends officials over citizen 


WASHINGTON (AP)-The Cons­titution does not always protect a private person from being defamed by public officials, the Supreme Court ruled Tuesday. 
In a S-3 decision, the court held that Louisville, Ky., police were within their rights in distributing to shopkeepers the names and photo­graphs of persons who had been arrested. but not necessarily con­victed. on shoplifting charges. 
The procedure was challenged by Edgar Paul Davis. then a photographer for the Louisville Courier Journal and Times, who was labeled an "active shoplifter" on a flyer distributed by police in 1972. Davis had been arrested 17 months earlier on a shoplifting charge which was subsequently dismissed. 
He contended that police had placed a "badge of infamy" on him without giving him a chance to defend himself as guaranteed by th~· due process clause of the Con~titution. 
That clause prohibits govern­
mental officials from depriving a 
person of life. liberty or property 
without due process of law. 
Speaking for the court, Justice 
William H. Rehnquist said there 
was "no constitutional doctrine 
converting every defamation by a 
public official into a deprivation of 
liberty within the meaning of the 
due process clause.·· 
He also said that "reputation 
alone. apart form some more 
tangible interest such as employ­
ment, is not a constitutionally 
protected right either of liberty or 
property. 
In additiOn, the court rejected 
Davis' claim that his constitutional 
right of privacy had been violated, 
saying the police were not trying to 
"'restrict his freedom of action in a 

3 students named Hoosier scholars 
Three students attending the 
Univcrsit•: of Notre Dame have 
been named to the Top Twenty 
Hoosier Scholar list for the 1975-76 
academic year. For the second 
L·onsecutivc vcar a student from 
South Bend -was honored. it was 
reported by June McCauslin. direc­
tor of financial aid. 
Honored this year are Margarety 
McKiernan. South Bend; Thomas 
P. Zahm. Huntington. Ind. and Joseph M. Hughes. Hammond, Ind. Thomas F. Lyon. South Bend, received a similar award last year. 
Scholarship awards of $500 are presented each year by the State Scholarship Commission to 20 quali 

tied stt,J<J~qt~; ~~<? .l!a.v;. tt£~ifye_d, • ;, •• ~ • academic ment. · · sphere contended to be private." 
In a sharply-worded dissent, Justices William J. Brennan Jr.. Byron R. White and Thurgood Marshall said that "the potential of today's decision is frightening for a free people." 
"It is not difficult to conceive of a police department, dissatisfied with what it perceives to be the dilatory nature or lack of efficacy of the judicial system in dealing with criminal defendants, publishing periodic lists of 'active rapists,' 'active larcenists' or other 'known criminals,"' Brennan wrote for the dissenters. 
Washington metrorail to open 
WASHINGTON AP-Five 'llears late and without a long-range plan to finance its operations, Washing­ton's Metrorail subway system opens its first 4.6 mile leg in the center of the capital on Saturday. 
The full 100-mile, 86-station Metro system will not be operation­al until 1982, Metro officials say. They predict it will cost at least $4.65 billion. The combined annula ridership of Metrorail and its auxiliary Netrobus system is pre­dicted to be 460 million riders that year. 
Critics chide the Washingtion Metropolitan Area Transit Author­ity for 10 delays in the opening date. But Metro's supporters say that since the rail system passes through two states, four counties and the District of Columbia, it's a wonder Metro ever got going at all. 
Metro officials bill the subwayO as the most modern mass transit system in the world, and the b-iggest single public improvement project in the history of the nation. 
But its critics. most of them in 
the suburbs it will servP. way 
Metro is a boondoggle, not a boon. With 4.6 miles operational and 
40.7 miles under construction Metro has spent 2.762 billion dollars so far. About 40 percent of that or $1.1 billion has come from American taxpayers as federal grants. However, plans for paying Metro's operating costs have not been formalized. Subway fares, which for the first leg will be 55 cents during rush hours and 40 cents during the rest of the day, are not expectd to cover the operating costs. 
Metro officials predict the sub­way will lose $11.3 million during its first IS months of operation. 
All the jurisdictions involved ­Montgomery and Prince George's counties in Maryland, Fairfax and Arlington counties in Virginia, both those states and the Bistrict of Columbia -are working out a formula for local government sub­sidies which probably will be based on a combination of the number of passengers. miles of track and hours of operation in each area. 
Sen. Charles McC. Mathias Jr.. 

R-Md., has suggested some kind of regional tax to pay the subway's operating costs. 
However, Virginia Gov. Mills E. Godwin threatens to veto state funds budgeted for the subway, saying he's not sure all Virginians should share the cost of what he sees as a local transit system. 
Francis Francois, a Prince George's County councilman and chairman of the Washington Met­ropolitan Council of Governments, spearheaded a drive to curtail Metro construction at the number of miles already being built. 
Francois says reduced popula­tion projections for the Washington area indicate the entire 100 miles are not needed. A preliminary study by the Library of Congress concluded the question should be studied in depth. 
However, Francois' proposal has gotten little support from local officials or members of Congress. who fear state and local govern­ments would hold up funding while the study was completed. 
I'm an Air Force officer and this is my sweet chariot. When I visit home people are happy to see me. And proud. They say I'm doing my part in the community by showing the young people and the adults that you really can make it. You really can get your share of the good life. 
I also feel good about my posi· tion in the Air Force community. ..... I'm a leader there, too. I'm some· one the other brothers and sisters I meet in the service can look to. And it reassures them to know they have a voice in Air Force matters that concern them. 
The Air Force needs more lead· ers ... pilots ... aircrew members ... math majors ... science and engi­neering majors. You might be one of them and the best way to find that out is in an Air Force ROTC program. There are two, three, and four-year programs. Scholarship and non-scholarship. Why not look into all of them and see if one fits your plans? It's worth it, brother. 
CONTACT : CAPT.M.L. STOCKDALE, ASST. PROFESSOR OF AEROSPACE STUDIES 
283 -6635 
Put it all together in ..Air Force ROTC • .. 
Thursday, March 25, 1976 
the observer 
9
$413,020 awarded 

Advanced Studies accepts research grants 
-

-----, I I 

The University of Notre Dame 
has accepted $413,020 in awards 
for the month of February to 
support individual faculty research 
projects and innovative educational 
and service programs as well as 
facilities and equipment, according 
to Dr. Robert E. Gordon, Notre 
Dame vice president for Advanced 
Studies. 
Awards for research totaled 
$.117.124 and included: 
-$100,000 from the Energy Re­search and Development Adminis­tration (ERDA) for studies of the effects of radiation on matter by the Radiation Research Laboratory. 
-$80,555 from the National Ins­
titutes of Health (NIH) for labora­
tory development of parasitic 
worms by Dr. Paul P. Weinstein, 
professor of biology. 
-$45.000 from Miles Laboratory for studies of the care and maint­enance of germ-free animals in Lobund Laboratory, directed by Dr Morris Pollard, chairman and pro­fessor of microbiology. 
-$29.244 from American Pre­cision Industries, Inc. for study of pressure drop in dust collectors by Dr. Tcoman Ariman. associate professor of aerospace and mech­anical engineering. 
-$27,89H from the National Aero­nautics and Space Administration for a study of burning of liquid pools in reduced gravity by Dr. A. Murty Kanury. associate professor of aerospace and mechanical cng­int·t·ring. 
-$9,000 from the American Che­mit·;.ll Sot'iety for study of catalytic organometallic complexes by Dr. Jay A. Labingcr, assistant profes­sor of chemistry. 

-$9,000 from-the Cancer Society of St. Joseph County for study of genetics and cancer by Dr. Harvey 
A. Bender, professor of biology. 
-$8,500 from the Cancer Society of St. Joseph County for electron microscopy studies of neoplastic lesions by Pollard. 
-$6,227 from NIH for study of microbial effects in cholesterol metabolism by Dr. Bernard Wost­mann, professor of microbiology. 
-$1,000 from the AIR FLO Co. for smoke visualization studies by Drs. Raymond M. Brae hand Vincent P. Goddard, associate professors of aerospace and mechanical engin­eering. 
Awards for educational program stotaled $82,916 and included: 
-$37,612 from the National En­dowment for the Humanities for a seminar on model as metaphor directed by Rev. Ernan McMullin, professor of philosophy. 
-$16.394 from-the Environmental Protection Agency for a program in environmental engineering and law directed by Dr. Robert L. Irvine, associate J)rofcssor of civil engin­eering. 
-$15,000 from the Indiana Arts Commission for an exhibition of art in Indiana: 1776-1976, by Dr. Dean 
A. Porter,  director  of  the  Art  
Gallcrv.  
-$7)50  from  the  National  Sci­ 

ence Foundation for a student st'icnce training program directed 
Buisness Dean invited to 
White House 
Brotht'r Leo V. Hyan. C'.S.V .. dL"an of the College of Business Administration at the University of Notre !lame. joined a grmq) of cdul·ator~ at a White House Confer­ence Tue~day to explore new are:ts of cooperation between government agcncie.., and business colleges. 
The two-day meeting includes dis­cussions with director~ of the dom­t".. til' Council, Council on Wage and Price Sti.lhility. Office Management and BudgL't. and the Justice Depart­ment. In addition, the educators will meet with representatives of 
Jr. happy hour at Fat Wally's 
The .Junior Class will rccekbrate 

Conference 
SEC. GAO, CAB. FDA. and FTC'. as well as chief counsels for the major 
congressional  committees  concern­ 
ed with regulative reform.  
Topics  of  discussion  arc  the  

regulating reform proposals of the Ford administration and the pos­sible parti1:ipation of business sdtOo)s, faculty and students in regulating reform and public policy. The invitation, extended by William Seidman. economics advi~or to the president. said "The conference could possibly facilitate areas of collaboration for research, consulta­tion. L'asc material preparation and exchange of government officials and college faculty in the growing ticld of regulatory reform and public policy." 
St. I'at rick's Day in a happy hour at r---~$-.S~O~BOO=-=:-:-K~S-:A:-:~LE~'~"'!!----. Fat Wally's this Friday. March 26.' LIBRARYCONCOURSE 
from 4-6 p.m. A 21 1D is required RCH d for entry to this celebration, which MA 29 an 30 will fe~ture disco dancing. Irish jsR:>NSORED BY N.D. LIBRAR'l dancing, hot dogs for $.25 and ASSOCIATION 
pitchers of green beer for$ J.25. 


by Irvine and Dr. Lloyd H. Ket­chum, Jr., assistant professor of civil engineering. 
-$6,160 from the Indiana Com­mittee for the Humanities for a program entitled. "Continuing the American Revolution: The Roots of Our National Identity,'' directed by Dr. A. Edward Manier, associate professor of philosophy. 
Notre Dame also received a $7,000 grant from ERDA for facil­ities and equipment in the Radia­tion Laboratory, and $5,980 from Catholic dioceses toward develop­ment of a diocesan needs assess­ment program by Rev. Vincent Dwyer, O.C'.S.O., associate profes­sional specialist of theology and director of the Center for Human Development. 

STEREOLPS  8·TRACK TAPES  
SERIES 6.98  SERIES 7.98  
$3.99  $5.99  

PRICES GOOD THRU APRIL 3 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
PICTURED ITEMS ON SALE 
.' I ( 

10 the observer 

Sea offers escape for Vietnamese 
BANGKOK, Thialand --AP--For trapped by revolutionary authori~ inside South vietnam. out. Westerners returning from such as family seperation. ties.
South Vietnamese who do not want Price for this service range up to Saigon say that some Vietnamese There have also been a few
Recently, a 60-year-old fishing
to live under the new Communist $1,000 per person. A Westerner with the necessary money and stowaways who steamed outboat captain claiming to have an
regime, the sea still offers as who recently made inquiries about connections try various ruses to foreign vessels calling a South
interest in politics brought out 12
escape route, if they can pay the getting a friend out of South obtain an exit visa and a one-way Vietnamese ports.
refugees, charging each $75 for the
price. Vietnam said the Thai Chinese air ticket. Some reportedly try to The most dramatic escape know
four-day voyage. Interviewed at a
The refugees usually must make operators he contacted seemed to marry foreigners or bribe officials to date came earlier this month
Thai police station, the seaman 
a clandestine dash to the Vietnam­be well-organized in Thailand and to obtain such permits, while when a test-pilot stole a helecopter
said he had been impressed into a 
ese coast, pay a shadow "broker" Vietnam. others plead with authorities to let and flew his wife, four children and
fishing cooperative after the Com­
and boat captain and take a The sea route is not the only way them go on humanitarian grounds a mechanic friend to Thailand.
munist take-over, but that the fixed 500-mile voyage in small craft over price the authorities paid him for open water, recent escapees say. 
his catch was insufficient to makeThey usually end up in Thailand. 
ends meet. 
Massive immunization plan
The sea escapes have been going Although he said he himself had on since the Communist victory last no intention to flee, the 20 day's April and show no signs of ending. fuel supply provided by the author­Initially, there was a flotill\l that ities each month was enough to set 
may be instituted by Ford 
pushed off from Vietnam to all him up in the sea-flight business. points in Southeast Asia. But in He said control of boats in South WASHINGTON (AP) -Some of against time. They currently pro­living at that time, indication
an 

ecent months the boats have come Vietnam was very tight but not the nation· s leading scientists duce about 20 million doses of that they had been exposed to the one by one. Thai officials say they always consistent, with no security Wednesday were considering vaccine annually for protection virus and built up a natural 
cannot estimate how many arrive in checks at all during certain times. recommending an unprecedented against the common B and A flu immunity to it. the country during any given The sources say that besides campaign to immunize every strains, but those vaccines are period. such "freelancers" as the old American against a potentially virtually worthless against the Adding to the concerns is the fact 
lethal new flu virus this winter. swine flu virus. that. in the past. virtually every·'The escapes are not well­fisherman--who faces an uncertain 
planned and many who try are President Ford called various The federal effort would require time a new flu strain appeared, it
future if he returns to Vietnam-­scientists to a meeting at the White at least 48 million fertilized chicken eventually spread around the
caught," a Western source in there are those who simply steal a House after hearing concerns ex­eggs to grow the virus, and many globe.
Bangkok said. From time to time boat and others who make use of 
pressed by federal health experts
radio broadcasts from Vietnam the "Chinese Connection" opera­thou~a.nds of new vaccine guns to St dents organ,·ze
that the new swine flu virus might admtn1ster the flu shots. U
tell of would-be refugees being ting out of Thailand with agents kindle another worldwide epidemic There is proof that global S similar to the 1918-19 outbreak that 
no a 

outbreak of swine flu virus will ociology Club 
killed 20 million persons, including occur next season but it is safer to
Church, city, contractors 
The Notre Dame Sociology maj­500,000 in the United States. gamble with dollars rather than ors have formed an undergraduateThe President probably will an­human lives, the President's health Sociology Club. Officers have

nounce his decision soon, govern­advisers said.
argue over trash in Seattle 
been elected and include: Edwardment sources said. 

SEATTLE (AP) -The Holy dirt at the site last August and Concerns first arose after a flu Signer-President, Carl Bitler-Vice 
They said the goal would be to 
outbreak at Fr. Dix, N.J., that
Temple Church of God in Christ September at the invitation of the President, Mark Trieden-Treasurer
immunize the entire U.S. popula­
killed a 19-year-old Army trainee
wanted to fill in a sloping area so it church. Since then, he said, at least and Mary Mayer-Secretary. 
tion during September, October 
Feb. 4 and spread to about 500
could build a new place of worship. SO other contractors, spotting the The Club is currently sponsoring
and November, a scale that has 
But dump trucks carrying landfill pile of rubble, have dumped mater­other personnel on the post. a careers program that will last
never been tried before in this 
kept coming. and now their slope ial there. That was the first documented through April in which admissions
country.
runneth over. Church leaders asked the trucks evidence that swine flu virus can be personel are speaking to the Soci­
Basically, the federal govern­
Some 18 feet of broken concrete to stop. They didn't. A Building ment would pay for the develop­transmitted from person to person, ology majors about opportunities pavement, steel reinforcing rods Department inspector ordered the although it had been suspected for and admissions to various profes­
ment and manufacture of the 
and just plain rubble have buried contractor to dig a ditch alongside some time. Isolated cases in the sional schools. 
vaccine by manufacturers. States 
the property. There have been the fill to catch drainage water that past have been traced to persons Future club events include a May
would coordinate immunization 
floods in surrounding homes. the landfill had begun diverting living on farms with pigs. which convention and banquet for the
programs, with most patients pay­The lot used to slope. In Nov­into the basements of nearby ing for the vaccination and the frequently suffer from colds and majors. ember 1974. the church decided it homes. influenza. Membership is open to all under­
doctor's fee. It would cost the 
needed about two feet of landfill, He did. But the dumping went graduate students interested in
government an estimated $130 to Flu experts suspect that a swine
1,500 cubic yards of dirt. But on. sociology. A meeting for anyone
$140 million to get enough vaccine flu virus was responsible for the
before the parade of trucks stopped Neighbors complained and interested in the club will be held in 
for everyone. 1918-19 worldwide outbreak, called
this month, at least 17,000 yards threatened lawsuits against the room 203 O'Shaghnessy on Thurs­
Drug manufacturers have said a pandemic, because the antibodies 
were deposited. city. Two more stop work orders day, March 25 at 8 pm. All
they need an answer before April!, against it was found frequently in
Who's going to haul away the were added to one already posted sociology majors are asked to
and that even then it will be a race the blood of persons who were
mess? at the site. The last two apparently attend and bring a dollar for fe "We aren't." said the City Hall did the trick. The trucks stopped. bureaucrats who issued the landfill Seattle, meanwhile, has filed a 
Swedish government protests .........~~ 
permit. criminal complaint in Municipal "We won't," says the contractor Court against Merlino Construction charged with illegally hauling in Co .. charging it with violation of 
alleged US spy activities 
some of the excess. -the till permit. 
STOCKHOLM Sweden AP -tion by the Swedish security police. 
"We can't," say the people who As for the Building Department The Swedish Foreign Office today The U.S. Embassy has refused to own the property. inspector who allowed the dumping comment on the case.
summoned the U. S. charge d'af­
Contractor Gary Merlino said his to continue in the face of stop work trucks dumped about 350 yards of orders. Supt. Lester Gillis said: faires to deliver a verbal protest 
"He's got his years in this July and against alleged spy activities by an 

will be leaving so I'm not really American diplomat who alreadyCivil Engineering raking him around." has left the country. 
Meanwhile, the Holy Temple Church of God in Christ is contin­
The ministry .c·~~~~~~Q edx.pressed
plans workshop uing to meet in an old house at the the government s stru'I't Isappro­corner of what grew into a small val" that Bruce Hutchins, a former 
The department of Civil Engin­

mountain. secoP.d secretary at the U.S. Emba­eering at the Unviersity of Notre 
ssy, had been operating in Sweden
Dame will offer a six-week Student Black Law Students as an agent for the Central Intelli-

Science Training Program in envir­onmental health engineering this diSCO dance gence Agency, it was announced.
hold
summer for area high school stud­The diplomatic move followed a
The Black American Law Studentsents who are entering the senior Association will hold a disco at
year. claim in a leftist magazine that ~======:::;:;:;:;;:==============-.::==::..
Hutchins about one year ago tried t
Stepan Center this Saturday, MarchSponsored by the National 
to hire a Kenyan citizen, Arthur
27, from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m..
Science Foundation, the program 

Admission is $2.00 at the door but Opot, to get informationwill be oriented around investiga­only $1.50 if tickets are purchased in certain African embassies in Stock­tion of the urban pollution problem advance. Tickets and further infor­holm and some Swedish newsmanproduced when sewer and storm 
discharges are combined. The mation can be obtained from Her­who covered the war in Angola. 
research project is designed to bert Hawkins at 288-4341. The charges led to an investiga-1--...;.;.;..;.;...;.;.;;.;.,;,;~.;..;.;.;..;,.;.;.:~..;.;,;,;.;;..;;.;.;..;;.;,;;~.;..;,;;.;.;..;;.;.._~.;.:..;;.;.;;...;.~;...--l involve students directly in the 
CHICAGO TRIBUNE­
t«JW! HIGHEST RATING 
SUN TIMES

approaches used for engineering ~****************************** ** 
-II ~

and scientific investigations. Each * * student also will conduct an indi­vidual study of some narrow aspect 
! Abby wouldn't touch ! 
lllluman Wllo would Bu King,."
of the water pollution problem. There is no tuition charge for the 

* * 
program, which will be taught by 

~ the material she does!!! ~ 

Dr. Lloyd H. Ketchum, Jr., project 
D 
derictor and assistant professor of 

i* **
civil engineering, and Dr. Robert L. 
JACKanclthe IIANSDU.K~
P'loo ....... 
Irvine, associate professor of civil engineering. Participants will be 

~ Write to: ! 
expected to be on the campus from 
SPECIAL .3 NITES ONLY! 

8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday, from June 14 to July 23. * * 
FRI.SAT.SUN. AT 10:30 P.M.

* * 
Early application is advised. Interested students may direct 

!Dear Clytemnestyrai
inquires to Ketchum at the Depart­ment of Civil Engineering, Univer­sity of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, 
~

i P.O. Box Q !
Inidana 46556, .or phone 219/283­6173. '. 

' *:******************************~ 

\>:: ';.~, \. ',('!-f!' '( ,•o',L ·~ L:~· ,_."1 0 \o •". 1 .~ ' ,.......· .. . 'I ' ,., f· ; 
0 '

.:< 
., !, .,..... • ·~" ., \ ,' Op# \, ' .·., .· --................... .. 
•. ~-.,
···.. 

SMC b-ball team finishes 2nd in state, loses in Midwest Regional 
by Patti Ruocco 
After placing second in the state tournament, St. Mary's losses at the Midwest Regional Tournament on March 12 and 13 seem super­fluous. Their two losses came from Morris Harvey of West Virginia, 75-40 and from Carrol Colege, Wisconsin, 81-56. 
The regional tourney, held at Concordia! College, River Forest, Ill., hosted eight teams and some interesting turns of events. The double elimination play was con­ducted in sucha way that if a team lost in the first round, it was eliminated from the final four teams but could continue to play. 
Ashland College, Ohio, won the tournament by beating George Williams College, lll., in the finals. 

Ordinarily this would mean that Ashland alone would advance to the nationals, but since, by a quirk of fate, Ashland is the host team which can play anyway, second place George Williams is also bound for the nationals. 
What may be considered another quirk is Coach Monica Doyle's optimistic outlook despite St. Mary's losses. 
"A lot of things just didn't click, but in view of all their other accomplishments, this was just something else we've got to strive for in the future," she said. 
This future looks particularly bright when one considers that only one player will be leaving this year and Coach Doyle will now have the experience of past experience to rely on. 
Aiming for the state tourney next year is her outstanding goal, and she sees no reason not to acheive it. 
"We know what to expect, we have move information, but most importantly, we have a very special group--they're truly a team. Still, we're different from most teams in that we don't have a 'star player' although we do have hight scor­ers." 
Possible improvements Doyle would like to effect with next year's team include starting practice later, having more concentrated practices, and spending more itme on offensive and set patterns. 
One quality Doyle doesn't want to lose (along with SMC's strong defense) is the fact that they "don't play aggressive basketball, they play aggressively," with a noted absence of elbow throwing. It's to St. Mary's credit, then, that they have done this and still come up a winning team. 


Ohio couple charged with murder 
YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio (AP) ­John and Valura Biles and Arthur and Regina Feisley had been friends since before they were married. But police said about 18 months ago John Biles and Regina Feisley began living together. Now they have been charged with murdering their spouses. 
Biles, 31. and Mrs. Fcisley, 30, both of suburban Austintown, were being held in Mahoning County Jail. each in lieu of $100,000 bond. 
Each was charged with aggra­vated murder, kidnapping, and aggravated murder during kidnap­ping. A hearing was scheduled Wednesday. 
Under Ohio law they face the dl·ath penalty. 
The bodies of Valura Biles. 26, and Arthur W. Feisley, 31. both of nearby Sebring. were found early Sunday by policemen who were investigating an illegally parked car along a rural road. 
Inside the car, which belonged to Fcislcy, were the bodies, each repeatedly stabbed and slashed. 
Acquaintances said Biles and Feisley were best friends in high school, growing up about eight houses apart in the small, rural community of Austintown. 
Feisley was described by an acquaintance as "a darn good auto mechanic'' who was always build­ing something or working on cars. 
Biles, hampered by thick glasses and wearing a hearing aid in each car even in high school, was described as a "follower," who was ''always ready to lend a hand and good at it." 
Valura Biles grew up as Valura Deiwert in the nearby small com­rnunity of Girard. and wasn't part of the high school friendship. Little could be learned about Mrs. Feis­lev's early years. 

About 18 months ago, the mar-William and Emily Harris. 
·;~ ,~~;;;;;;;~;d r==-· Attentio-;rrr==· ·K~ 
a~~!~.~!~.~"~~~!,~.~ ~Applications are now b~ing~ 
for .the Ninth Annua~. Michiana ~accepted for the salarzed ~ 
Regtonal Art Competltton to be • .; held at the South Bend Art Center 
p0Sltl0n o{• 
from 25 •
April through May 16, 
1976 
Judges for this year's Michiana 
Show,. which is open to all artists ~ residing in Indiana and Michigan, areDr.JoshuaKind,artcriticand ~t 
Associate Professor of Art at DeKalb University. and Dr. Franz 
~~~~~;-eA~u~i~~~~;i~~·~ank~ p;~~:~~ ~ 
College. 
Prizes totaling $2,000.00 will be awarded in the categories of pain­ting. sculpture, prints, photogra­phy, crafts, and drawing. 
Further information may be rec­eived by writing the Sout,h Bend Art Center: or by calling 219-23.3-82-. 
01. Entries will be accepted until April 18th. 

about one year ago, Mrs. Feisley inquire about their spouses' deaths moved in with Biles. Both couples and were questioned about the case filed for divorce, and Mrs. Biles b)' deputies. 
moved in with Feisley. Sgt. David Allen of the Austin­
Both couples were in court last town police said Biles led officers to Friday for a hearing on custody of a creek and showed them where he their children. The hearing was said he had thrown the knife used continued. The children were being in the slayings. Allen said the knife cared for by relatives. was recovered. 
About 10 p.m. Saturday, police One of the four children is Biles' said Biles forced Feisley and Mrs. son Richard, 8. The other three are Biles to drive him in Feisley's car to the Fei'sleys' sons William, 2 and a residential area while Mrs. Roger Williams, 7, plus a Feisley followed in Biles' car. daughter, Shana Williams, 5, born 
to Mrs. Feisley before she divorcedBiles and Mrs. Feisley were her first husband and marriedarrested Monday when they went Feisley.
· to the Austintown police station to 
Lawyer says Patty Hearst can't get a fair trial in US 
SAN FRANCISCO AP -A lawyer for Patricia Hearst said Wednesday that the newspaper heiress cannot receive a fair trial "in the foresee­able future" in Los Angeles or anywhere else because of publicity surrounding her bank robbery con­viction. 
AI Johnson, who will represent Miss Hearst at her arraignment in Los Angeles, said he would con­sider seeking a change of venue for her trial on kidnaping, robbery and assault charges. But he said he felt such a move would be futile. 
"I cannot understand how any jury can ever by empaneled in Los Angeles that would not have prior knowledge of her conviction," he said at a news conference at the federal building. 
"I would say that applies to the rest of the country as well . that leaves us with a strong conviction that she could not be tried in the foreseeable future anywhere," Johnson said. 
If a trial is ordered, he said, he and partner F. Lee Bailey definitely will seek to sever Miss Hearst's 
case from that of codefendants 
The Harrisses, members of the Symbionese Liberation Army, were accused by Miss Hearst in her San Francisco trial as being her abduc­tors and tormentors. 
Johnson said her defense in Los 
Angeles will stress the mind-bend­
ing tactics of the SLA and all but 
ignore the physical torment Miss 
Hearst described at her bank 
robbery trial. 
''The defense down there would 
be more along the lines of coercive 
persuasion and thought reform 
than physical coercion," Johnson 
said, indication there would be les~ 
emphasis on Miss Hearst's con­
finement in a closet and her 
allegations of sexual abuse by her 
captors. 
Bicycle pick-up at Stadium Gate 14 
All students who have stored their bicycles in the Stadium for the winter must claim them at Gate 14 between the hours of 1:30pm and 4:15pm on Thursday March 25. There were no visible damages to any of the stored bicycles this year. 
Busz"ness Manager o{
h Ob fi
e server Or nextyear. Accounting maJ"ors only. 
Send resume to · 
0 
Tom Modglin, P.O. Box Q 


Thursday, March 25, 
1976 11 
0. 
Parts & accessories for imported ca for all makes at lowest prices. 
*******272-7187 ********* 
**For ND Students, Faculty & St<"ff: :10 percent~discount with ID & * * P~rchase of $ 10 or more. * 
*************j~*********t 

~iiiiiiiiiiiiiii~~~--·~"' 
. ' 

DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS i 
f()~V'c-JEWELERS ~ ~--SINCE 1917: 
0 

Downtown South Bend ; Town & Country Shopping Ctantf'r 1 Concord Moll, Elkhart 'Biockmonds, Nilf!s .r 
I I 101 I 101'1 101 I 101·1 101 I fOI I fOI I 101.1 101 I fOJ I 
SPECIAL 10% DISCOUNT ON AL 
... 
MERCHANDISE TO NOTRE DAM & ST. MARY'S STUDENTS 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Need riders FROM Milwaukee. Leave Sunday at 4 p.m. Call AI at 3388 
Need ride to Cleveland Friday 26th for one or two. Call Mary Kay 4338. 
Need ride to Toledo Friday. Call Peggy, 6661 
Ride wanted to Purdue, Friday or Saturday. Call Cathy, 5148. 
Need ride to Pitt. April 2. Call Bob 3665 
FOR SALE 

For Sale: Dual 1229 turntable with base, dust cover and Shure V-15 cartridge. $260. Call 1924 
Must sell quality stereo components Call Ron at 287-0885. 
FOR RENT 

UMOC is coming . save your pennies, dirtballs. 
For Rent: furnished houses, two to seven bedrooms. Available for September or June. Call 234-9364. 
Summer houses and rooms for rent-real close to campus. Furnished ridiculously reasonable. 233-2613 or 232-7263. 
4,5,6 Bedroom Houses. Com­pletely furnished. Extremely nice. Real close to campus. Sept 1976 9.month lease 233-2613 or 232·7263. 
NOTICES 

ATTENTION: All persons interes­ted in working in student govern­ment and student union pick up applications at the student govt. offices, 2nd floor LaFortune from 
9-S. 
Will do typing, experienced. Term papers, manuscripts, etc. Call 233­8512 
~~------------­
Concert-March 27-0'Laughlin Aud.­8:00 p.m.-Students $1.00-We To­gether singers of South Bend plus Faith Unlimited from Canada and Spirit Inc. from Iowa will share their gift of song. Join us. 
Come celebrate and meet your vacationed friends at the Dillon Derelicts "Welcome Home" kegger Friday March 26 at the Campus View Community Center, 8-2. 
STEREO COMPONENTS 20-40 per­cent' discound. All quality name brands. RMS Audio, 321 S. Main. 
88-1681, M-f. 12:00-6:00. 
We are your roomate, your profes­sor, your sister, your priest. Gay Community of Notre Dame. Hotline 8870 Fri. and Satr. 8-10 p.m. Or write Box 206. 
Accurate fast typing. Hours 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Mrs. Donoho, 232-0746. 
Papers professionally and promptly typed. IBM Selectric II and complete typing service. Call 277-2922. 
LOST & FOUND 
Found: Neclace, near Sorln. Call 8507. 
Reward for return of Vivitar attach­ment lost Sat. Feb. 21. Call 6834 or 1715. 
Lost-Pipe, around LaFortune or Archy Bldg. Call 287-0742. 
Our son lost his class ring t'77) at a pep rally not long ago. It had a sapphire stone and we are unable to replace it. The ring means a great deal to us. Could the finder please contact the editor of the Observer for positive Identification of the ring. We would be extremely grateful. 
PERSONALS---------­Lonely Texicans seek castaway biz bags. Object: round up.Will provide saddles. 
La Gala Guggenheim! 1976 Beaux Arts Ball, Architecture Building, Saturday March 27, 9 p.m. 3 a.m. Music by Stratus. Tickets available in Arkie Library. $5 per couple, $3 single. DECADENT! 
Happy Birthday Grady ! 
Twenty one shots is enougtl 
to wish Happy Birthday to Gruff 
to the bars he'll walk tall 
but home he will crawl 
unless his friends drag him back 
in ghe buff. 
P.T., M.H., T.L. 
Mary, Bill, Jack and Ron-­These things do happen. Get well soon. Observer Staff 
To the SMC Saga employee who swiped the N D band jacket before break:Keep the jacket, if you must, but please return the deys and ID. 
Brian Donovan-Happy Birthday! Love, K.K. 
The Freshman social event of the year. See ad page 2 

-·----

Brownschidle given league honors 
the U.S. National Team." Brown­play backed up Notre Dame's 
schidlc explains. "We played a premier scoring line of Brian 
tough schedule of 18 games which Walsh. Clark Hamilton and Alex by Ernie Torriero 
Notre Dame junior defenseman included the best teams in Europe. Pirus for most of the season. 

Jack Brownschidlc was named I vividlv recall how good the "Part of the reason I had all tnda\ to the highly regarded Den­Russians were and they proved it those points," he emphasizes, "is \Cr Post All-league squad. This is by what they did against the NHL that the Walsh line is probably the in addition to his previous honors of teams this past winter. Against best line in college hockey. Playingbc·ing !>lected All-America by the that type of competition I couldn't with them gives me a lot of Cnlkgc Hockey Coaches Associa­sec the U.S. Olympic team finish­opportunity to score. 

ti,,n ,,f America and ali-WCHA by a ing higher than fourth." Though Browschidle is from the pia\ cT vote conducted by WDAZ 

There is another factor of inter­East. he has no regrets of leaving
lbdin in Grand Forks. N.D. Wing national competition which Brown­that hockey harvestland to come to Ak:-. Pirus was nominated for schidle has not yet forgotten. "I Notre Dame. 

~c·c·oncl team in that poll. 

remember when one of my team­"While I was being recruited I Hnm n-.chidle is Notre Dame's mates on the National team got was playing junior hockey in Can­third Ali·America selection. He hurt." he recalls. "Instead of ada," he remembers. "Schools j.,in~ dl'fcnwman Bill Nyrop. now waiting for him to heal, the coach like Brown, Clarkson, Michiganwith the Montreal Canadiens and flew someone else in from the Tech and Minnesota were inter­
cvntc·r Eddie Bumbacco, both of States to take his place the very ested in me." 
"lll'n: held the honor after the next day. I just couldn't help but When the time came to make a 

1'1-2--.lnunpaign. 

think what would happen if I got choice Brownschidle decided on ~~~tre Dame goalie len Moher. 
hurt in the Olympics. They'd have Notre Dame. "I had visited Notre ,kknseman Paul Clarke. center 
someone else replace me and I'd Dame as a sophomore and reallyBrian Walsh and wings Alex Pirus 
lose a whole year of hockey liked the place," he continues. ;111d Chtrkc Hamilton received hon­
experience. "Minnesota and Michigan Tet·h ''r mc·ntinn distinction on the 
Brownschidle is not one to were too far away and the Eastern Dcn\Cr Post Ali-WCHA squad.
... belittle the value of a college schools based grant-in-aids on the h1r many. a chance to perform in education. "It is really hard to basis of need. My parents also the 01~ mpic~ is a once in a lifetime come back and go to school after liked the image of Notre Dame." thrill. Few would ever dream of taking a year off,'' says the East Browschidle's career at Notre turning down such an opportunity. Amherst. N.Y. native. "At least if Dame has not gone undetected by Yl't for Brownschidle, Notre I get hurt playing hockey while in the professional hockey hawks. Dame's premier defenseman, the school I always have my education The Cleveland Crusaders of the lure of Austria proved uninviting. to fall back on." WHA and the St. Louis Blues of the He was one of the few who decided The man who has appeared in NHL thought highly enough of ths' 
to forego the Olympic experience. 112 consecutive contests since his Irish blueliner to claim rights to 
'·A lot of people asked me that opening game as a freshman did him. question." said Brownschidle not want to leave Notre Dame for "I was surprised and definitely ''hen asked why he declined the another important reason. honored," says Brownschidle. free trip to Europe. "It took a long "I had thought all along. and I "Yet I'm reatiy interested in get­time to decide. I thought about it a still feel this wav. that our team ting my degree first. The economic lot and often still do." had a good chance of reaching the situation of hockey is not such 
The 6-1. 187-pound junior surely NCAA finals," Brownschidle where teams arc throwing out big had his reasons for thinking the confides. "I felt if I went away I'd money to lure kids out of school." way he did. His experience with be missing all that.· Though the Irish finished barely the U.S. National Team last spring For the vear Brownschidle netted above .500 this season, Brown­and the interruptions of his Notre 12 goals imd 24 assists. His 36 schidlc reflects an optimism for Dame education arc two of the point total was II more than the 25 next year which has prevaded the reasons. he accumulated during his first two Notre Dame camp for the latter 
") remember what went on with seasons. Brownschidle's defensive part of this season. 
Notre Dameruggers place first in...__________.... 
Gator Invitational on trip south 
The rugby A team opened Uf­had its first trophy for the spring
by Ray O'Brien 

thcir spring season with a perfect season. The Atlanta team had won 11-0 romp over the Miami Old seven of their last nine tourna­Notre Dame did not come up Smugglers. The B squad dropped a ments over the past two years.
empty handed in tournament play 
12-4 decision to the Miami Tri­The Notre Dame club was giventhis spring vacation. While many dent's A team. Mark Lukanich did high rugby praise from the Old'itudcnts were sunning themselves the scoring for NO. This win Whites' captain who called themin Florida over the break, the primed the unheralded rugby play­"the best rucking team we haveFighting Irish rugby club was ers for their spring tourney. There ever played." Afterwards theyworking for a gold cup as they were sixteen teams in the field and were the highlight of the party
captured the "7th Annual Gator 
the winners had to play two games celebration which as everyoneInvitational Rugh~· Tournament" each day. knows is an essential facet of rugbyagainst stiff competition. 
competition.
There were teams from New York down to Florida and as far 
The win was an outstanding featGolfers finish 6th west as Michigan. Two inter­for the Notre Dame ruggcrs. As a 
national teams were included in the club sport they are allocated ain Florida tourney impressive lineup including a team limited amount of funds and had to 
from Windsor, Canada. Michigan 
arrange all transportation accom­The J\otrc Dame golf team State and Palmer College. two 
modations. Most of the teams theyfini-.hcd a surpri-.ing 6th m the midwest powers. also competed in 
played were well subsidized. The Ih-tcam Uni\ crsit\' of Miami lnvit­
the tourney. citv teams consisted of older men 
t ion. held at the. Biltmore Course aglng from twenty to thirty yearsThe first ND victim was Spring­,:1 Coral Gables. Fla. over spring old with much more experience infield College from Alabama who·•;l·ak. The lri-.h logged a total of the game. The most amazing fact iswere swamped 27-9. The second20-~huh. in the four-day, 72-hole that the rugby team is self­match of the first day was against a 

•L'Ilt. H11st Miami University won organized with no coach. The teamvery tough Tallahassee team who 

: !lL' champinn~hip with a 1160 shot 

relics on the guidance of seniorswere citv team Florida stateo~tal. The live schools ahead of the Mike Hallman. Steve Dewan. Chetchamps. This game was tied at the ,t'>h \HTc :til southern schools, as Zwalich and captain Bill Sweeney.
end of regulation time. Notre Dame lL' lri'>h bc'>tcd other "'>now-belt" continued their relentless attack
lwnl'> likl· Yale. Providence and The team attributed their suc­
and Scan Mcdonald scored a try
lkl'aul. cess to spirit. hustle and sheer
with twcntv seconds left in the first
"lc·niur Captain Paul Koprowski determination. Each win consisted
tivc minut~ overtime period to give
,;artnl hi.,; final season on the right of a total team effort with Mike
Notre Dame the 8-4 victory. This
'"''' a'> he broke 80 all four rounds, Hallman leading the way with
seemed to be the turning point for
·c·.~i~tning a 76, two 75's and a excellent kicking and overall su­
the ruggers as they became more 
upL'I'h 71 on the final day. Fresh­perb play. Leo Airline kept the
confident with each victory.
rna n Tiln Saurs was al~o under 80 opponents from scoring with boom­lm all lour rounds, tallying a 71 and The Irish got into the finals by ing kicks from his fullback position. ;t -;~ to go with a pair of 79's. virtue of their 12-4 decision over The serum consisting of Terry '>ophomorc Rich Knee started the University of Florida who Roche. Joe Olsen. Lou Drago. Tom ,J,m·lv with an 84 and a 79, but hosted the tournament. Tony Bvrnc, Paul Minniclairc and Bobo rallit•d with two excellent rounds of Mendiola turned this game around O-lsen dominated every game as 
.. ~2 and 74. Freshman Biv Wadden with a key steal that set up the they consistently got the ball out to "nd Bob Kennedy were under 80 in winning tally. The final game was the backs. The backfield, led by three of four rounds. Koprowski's never in doubt as Notre Dame Scan Mcdonald Doug Moser and 2Y7 earned him 14th position in the impressed everyone by taking it Jim Kovac, ran over and through field of 87, while Saurs was 21st right at the Atlanta Old Whites people in each game. and Knee 35th. from the start of the game. The Irish will open the "north­George Spiegel scored twice The ruggers are now looking to ern" part of their schedule in two against the Old Whites who are improve on their fall record of 6-2. weeks as they will be hosting considered by many the best rugby They are presently 5-0 and their Aquinas College at the Burke team in the south. In the end the next game is Wednesday March 31 Memor.ial Course in a dual meet. score read 22-11 and Notre Dame at 8 p.m. on Cartier Field. 

GP  Record  GA  AVG  svs  PCT  
18  10-6-2  79  44  610  .885  
20  9-11-0  94  4.7  620  .868  
38  19-17-2  173  4.6  1230  .877  
38  17-19-2  170*  4.5  1357  .889  

*Does not include one ope.n-net 'goal 


