
Avid Bruce Springsteen fans form lines at Student Union 
· 

Carter's tax statement draws Republican fire 
WASHINGl;ON, (AP) -Jimmy interview, as in his campaign he plans a drastic reform and taxes at a certain level." he said. were talking about Carter's refer­Carter has urged a tax overhaul "to speeches, were general and did not simplification of the tax code to "What are you thinking ot as ence to the mean or median income shift a substantial increase toward include any specific recommenda­curtail exemptions and re­higher?" he was asked. leveJ. as the dividing line between 
those who have the higher in­tions on income tax levels. duce rates. "I don't know," Carter replied. higher and lower incomes. comes" and reduce levies on lower Led by Sen. Robert J. Dole, the ''The overall effect would be to ''I would take the mean or median Powell said the real goal of the and middle income taxpayers. Republican vice presidential nom­sbift a substantial increase toward level of income and anything above Republicans always has been to Republicans claimed Carter had inee, campaigners for President those who have the higher incomes that would be higher and anything defeat meaningful tax reform. advocated increasing the taxes of Ford contended that Carter was and reduce the income on the lower below that would be lower." "They have never shied away from 
half the American people. Q. "The median family income bending the truth in order to
advocating increased taxes on half and middle income taxpayers." The controversy erupted Satur­the nation. Carter said. today is somewhere a­protect their privileged friends." day over Carter's statements in an The· Republicans' interpretation In a partial transcript of the round $12,000. Somebody earning he said. "Gov. Carter's promise to interview with The Associated Pr­was denied and denounced by interview. transmitted on AP wires $15,000 a year is not what people the American people is clear --to ess and centered on his comment Carter campaign officials. Friday night for publication in commonly think of as rich ... " shift the burden away from low and that anything above the mean or Sunday newspapers, the words Carter: "I understand. I can't miodle income families · and to
Jody Powell, Carter's press sec­
median level of income would be "and middle income" were drop­answer that q!Jestion because I simplify our tax system.'.'
retary, accused the Republicans of
considered higher, and anything ped because of a transcribing error. haven't gone into it. I don't know
'·typical political distortions and In the interview. Carter said his
below it would be lower. After the controversy arose, a how to write that tax code now in
misrepresentations." debate with President Ford on
tape recording of the interview was specific terms. It is just not
Despite repeated questions dur­Stuart Eizenstat, Carter's chief Thursday will "alleviate a lot of the 
reviewed Saturday and the omis­possible to do that on a campaign
ing the interview on Friday, the concerns about me" among voters
adviser on issues, said increases
Democratic nominee did not set a sion was corrected. trail."
would apply to the wealthy, and who think him too vague on the
Carter said he is committed to do
figure as the income level at which issues.
certainly not to people earning Carter vague 
it if elected. and already has talked 
he would seek to increase taxes. 
$12,000 or $15,000 a year. But he The former Georgia governor
to congressional leaders about the
He said four times that he did not In the interview, Carter was also said: 
said it will take further study to 
need for change, "as far
know what the break point between determine the level of income at asked to explain what he meant but as -He believes that as President he 
telling you specifically what the tax
decreased and increased taxes which taxes would go up under the about shifting the tax burden. could spearhead an unprecendent­
code would be, there is. no way I
would be. Carter plan. ''That means people who have a ed total overhaul of U.S. tax laws 
can do that."
Carter's tax statements in the 
Carter said in the interview that higher income would pav more through Congress. 11 A major blunder'' -He will see to implement such Democratic platform promises as Dole met with Ford at noontime welfare reform and national health Saturday. then told reporters Cart­insurance only when a revived er wants to' 'raise taxes for half the economy produces the revenues to American families." He displayed pay for them without tax increases. a copy of the interview, available -He already is sizing up the on AP teletypes at the White foreign policy experts he meets and Chris Smith 
House. consults as possible candidates to Ass't Managing Editor ''I'm astounded to read here that become secretary of state in a he's going to raise taxes for half the Carter administration. 
The following notice appeared in 
American families --anyone above -He thinks he can curb unem­
the Notre Dame Security daily 
the median income," Dole said. ployment by using federal funds to 
bulletin dated 9-i7-76. 
Eizenstat said that was a total stimulate private industry jobs misunderstanding of what Carter without heavy reliance on public Attn: All Security Personnel had said. He repeated that Carter employment to put people back to "Students are advised that does not know what the turning work. He put no price on .his plan.
the University has desig­
point between tax increases and 
nated certain grass areas for 
cuts would be. But he said it would 
games. These playing fields Debates begin Thursday 
be at a high income level, describ­
include the football parking 
ing families making up to $25,000
lots. Many, many acres are Carter and Ford meet Thursday
at middle. income taxpayers who 
equipped with back stops would benefit from the 'Carter plan. night in Philadelphia in the first of and field goals. These areas their three nationally televised
White House Press Secretary are located around the peri­Ron Nessen said Carter had com­
campaign debates. meter south of the University "I think the debates. unless
mitted "a major blunder." Budget
Club, south and east of the Director James Lynn said the President Ford or I make a serious ACC, between the Library Democratic nominee had taken "an mistake, will probably solidify sup­and the Grace and Flanner incredible position ... '' port and. naturally. leaning voters Towers. east and north of Secretary of the Treasury Will­--it would make their degree of Stepan Center, etc. Students committment more solid." he said
iam E. Simon said Carter "calls for 
in the interview with a panel of AP 
are not permitted to play or increased taxes on all families walk on the grass in the mall earning more than $14,000 a year." editors and reporters. 
and or quad area since a That figure does not appear in the "I think it would help to alleviate considerable investment has a lot of the concerns about me."
interview.
These football players are apparently violating a security bul­
been made by the University the former Geogia governor said.
Simon said Carter's statement
: letin issued by Arthur Pears. (photo by Tony Chifari) 
for environmental and aes­was similar to the $1,000-an-Amer­"President Ford is much better 
thetic purposes to make this damage to the lawns. What broke expressed anger at the ruling: ican grant plan proposed and known than I am. He is much more one of the most attractive the camel's back is the volleyball "Last year they put the fences on eventually dropped by Sen. George predictable than I am. And I think the juxtaposition of myself with
ca~~us settings in the coun­nets.'' the south quad to keep us from McGovern, the Democratic nomi­
try. him in the debates will accrue to
Joe Bauer, a south quad junior playing there. Next year, they'll nee in 1972. 
Arthur N. Pears, ·agreed that this is not a new rule. have barbed-wire up. I think this is Nessen and William Greener, my own benefit if I do a god job in Director of Security "I've seen Fr. Hesburgh tell guys ridiculous." chief spokesman for Ford's cam­the debates --which I intend to 
.. 
playing football to get off the grass An unidentified member of. se­paign committee, said the Republi­do. Pears commented that this notice because of the way it tears it up.'' curity played down the harsh tone can attack on Carter's tax com­Carter said l,e thinks the debates is circulated to security officers An Observer staff members added of the bulletin. ments was not affected by the will demonstrate he is not the every year. "This is something that that she has seen Hesburgh him­"As far as any punitive action transcript correction that added the radical candidate Republi­
goes on here every year; or the last cans claim he is, "that I am a
self playing Frisbee with some such 'as I.D.-card-taking, this isn't reference to middle income taxpay­
l2 years --since I've been here. substantial person'' with some
students. that strong a rule. We've only ers as among those whose rates 
The boys play on the quads, and we knowledge of defense and foreign
A Dillon Hall resident, who been told to ask offendres to go to would be lowered. 
ask them to refrain because of the affairs.
asked to remain unidentified mem-the designated playing ares.'' Greener said the Republicans 
.· '·~:~.~~~~~=.. V;.· 
Lafortune Student Center was scene as these lounged around waiting to buy tickets for the Bruce Springsteen Concert. (photo by Tony Chifari) 

server 
Monday, September 20, 1976 
by Maureen O'Brien Staff Reporter 

Would you wait 66 hours for Bruce Springsteen tickets? Mike Rice and Bob Ebel were the first students in line for tickets. They came at 2:45 P.M. on Friday afternoon to wait in line. 
They hope this system will work so that nobody will be able to cut in front of people who have been waiting for hours. 
Students had to sign a list when they arrived at LaFortune for tickets. Then either the student · who signed the list or someone 
Vol. XI. No. 14. 
· representing the student had to be present for spot checks conducted by Rice and Ebel. Each person in line could purchase ten tickets. Students forfeited their position in line if they were not present for the spot checks. 
According to Kathy Denney, one of the students waiting, Security consented to the camp-out on the LaFortune lawn. They would not let anyone camp out at the ACC until 6 P.M. Sunday, but they said we could wait at LaFortune,'' she said. 
According to Security, students have been allowed to camp out since they don't have any tents. Securtiy would not guarantee that the students could continue this practice in the future, however. 
Chad Tiedemann, another wait­ing student said the waiting list was a good idea. "Last year the homecoming tickets were also run exceptionally well by Student Union. But this is the best system I've ever seen for purchasing concert tickets at Notre Dame," Tiedemann said. 
If Springsteen is cancelled, will the 66-hour wait be worth it? ''I'd rather not think about it, " Rice said. 

r 2 
the observer Monday, September 20, 1976 
,._--News Briefs--­
DETROIT -The united Auto Workers and Ford Motor Co. will resume formal contract negotiations today in an effort to end the five-day-old walkout of 170,000 workers in 22 states. The session will be the first official contract talks between the union and te nation's No. 2 automaker since the strike began at midnight Tuesday.. 
.,___On Campus Today-.. 
3:25, 4:30 & 5:45 pm -film series -ascent of man film series: 
'''the grain in the stone," sponsored by college of science, eng. 
aud. 

3:30pm-lecture series-cardinal o'hara lecture series: "social responsibility of business: more action and less rhetoric" with john w. humble, fellow of international academy of manage­ment sponsored by business administration, lib. aud. 
7 pm -meeting -chess club, 326 math and computer building 
7 pm -meeting -notre dame world hunger coalition, all interested persons are welcomed to attend. Iafortune theatre 
7:30 
pm -meeting -alcoholics annonymous, sponsord by nd chapter of aa, lib. lounge. 

7:30 
pm -seminar -faculty, graduate seminar with john w. humble,. sponsored by business administration, board room, hayes healy. 

7:30 
pm -nd-smc young democrates organizational meeting tonight. all students are welcome. rm 2-d Iafortune 


.

' . bl d 't d t 
Workers have to sort each bag of
ItaIy s pro ems on e erlaundry to make sure every g_ar­

h•t t t d t
ND A rc I 9C Ure S U en S 
by Alicia Denefe Staff Reporter . 
Political problems in Italy do not seem to be a deterrent to students in the College of Architecture who spend their junior year studying in Rome. Despite recent rioting, demonstrations and monetary ·in­stability, 65 architecture students left for Rome early this month. Sixty-seven were enrolled in last year's program. 
According to Professor Ambrose 
M. Richardson, Chairman and Professor of the Architecture de­partment. the year spent in Rome is still thought to be one of the "strong features of the depart­ment.'' · 
Bill Malewitz, a senior architec­ture student, who spent last year in Rome, said the political problems were hardly noticed, except for an occasional riot or demonstration, and of course, the ever-changing Italian lire. Though th!! lire was subject to change overnight, the students usually knew where to go to get the best rate. 
Ed Bleiszner, who also spent last year in Rome, said "Things sound worse ovei: here." As. for the recent presidential election in Italy, Bleiszner said, "It was a beneficial experience arid I was able to see things first hand." 
The fact that students are "out of 
touch· with the University" Brian Brady's only corppaint. . 
Brady also spent last year overseas and said that obtaining 'desired classes .in registration was a bit difficult this. fall, but that the "structure of the program is gre­at." 
Last year, several Notre Dame students had a chance to observe a riot that took place near the hotels where they lived. Bleiszner related that a peaceful demonstration tur­ned into a riot when a group of leftist Roman students attacked policemen. Shots were fired and the police spread tear gas through­out the crowd. The riot took place around lunchtime when N.D. stu­dents were giD_pg to lunch. Bleiszner said they went inside until the crowds dispersed. 
Architecture students have had the opportunity to study in Rome their junior year since 1969. The Architecture College does not re­quire the year abroad, but it is strongly recommended. Richar~­
The Obserller is published 111\onday through Friday il'ld weekly during the SUilTl'lel' session; except during the exam; and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students Of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St. 1\N!ry's College. Subsa'iptions I'TlilY be purchased for S18 C$10 per semester) fro, The Obser\ler, Box Q, Notre Dilme, Indiana -46.556. Sealnd Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

son said over the years there have been individual complaints, but nothing about the program in general. 
The cost of year overseas is dependent upon the amount of traveling done, and money spent for gifts and entertainment. The architecture students are also re­quired to buy all their meals. Malewitz suggested that "it would be better if they had a program to provide meals. We had to buy all three meals and it got pretty expensive." ' 
Aside from minor individual complaints, the consensus is that the year overseas is a beneficial opportunity. An accrediting board that recently visited the Architec­ture College said the year in Rome is one of the strong points of the whole college. 



Laundry experiences snags 
by Greg Desio This problem should be resolved "We've worked overtime three Staff Reporter after the inplementation of new times this week just to try and get If you are a male student pick up hours. things back in line," Keglovits residing on campus, you are prob-Mr. Keglovits asserted that, said. "We would probably work ably aware of the new laundry pick after the new system has been this Saturday if it weren't a football up system and its apparent de-through a few "cycles" and all the weekend." In the meantime, ficiencies. garments have been marked, laun-students will have to put up with 
This is especially true for the dry service will improve. the inconvenience of delays. residents of Keenan Hall. Mike w:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
~~~nv~!~p: ~~n~~s re~~~~~~y us:~ :.~.:.~_1::1 wHAT's ;_~~.=:.~~-;
Monday mornings and picks it up ~~:e:::~~:ler~~~~noons. but this ~;_=~~-= 
"I went to pick up my laundry 
:~~~:::? ~~:~fi~~~i~~t..\\~:~ 
1i1i 
again on Thursday morning and I was told that my laundry wouldn't be ready until Monday." This situation prevailed for all of Keenan's residents. "We wouldn't have called you (the Observer), but we were pretty mad," Monville explained. "We are running out of underwear." 
The laundry for the other dorms is only about one day late, accord­ing to Adolph Keglovits, Director of the Laundry. • 'The garments are not marked," Keglovits stated, "That's slowing our production." 
ment has a laundry number on tt. Another time consuming prob-Iem is picking up laundry. "Usu-@
ally we have to go back to the .. · · dorms four or five times," Keglo-~~~1 We knOW Where tO find all the best buys 1 
vits said, "because students leave bundles at the pick up sites after ~:~: in town :~:~ 
the laundry truck has gone by." ~~~~ Call 233_6161 NOW! [~~~

(::.~;.~~:~~~er1. I,,.,,,,,.,<.,,,,,,,~,?!~~~'~'~?,!~~!:,_,,,,,J
Ass't Editor -Joe
Night Bauer Layout -Paula Carroll Copy Reader -Katie Kerwin Day Editor -Mo 0' Brien Editorials -Pat Hanifin Features -Tim O'Reiley Sports -Chip Spina Typists -Karen Chiames, Gwen Coleman, Mary Ann Keefe, Rusty Espinosa Night Controller -Martha Fanning 
l Happy B-day Debbie Bill, Happy 22nd B-day ) 


The Notre Dame Student Union Presents IN CONCERT 

BRUCE . 
SPRINGSTEEN 
and the E STREET BAND 
SAT· OCT. 9 Tickets $6.50 & $5.50 At the Notre Dame ACC Tickets on sale, Monday, Sept. 20 Available at the ACC Box Office, the Student Union Ticket Office, and all ACC ticket outlets. Limit 10 tickets 



HAPpEN N ING ;_=~_==.;~.= OUT THERE? 1~1~ 


READ THE SOUTH BEND TRIBUNE Everyday to find out! 
We'll show you where to SHOP... t 

I I '"~·· 0 ~ICk r= IIOftiY """ lor S.--00 00 0-.. ·-lor .• 00 ... 00-,J, llaktllo I 0 1dull 0 stu4ent ::::J llex I llil tlcklb It: I I ~~-.. 00 .........,............00..................................... I 
~-:::·.::::::::::::::::::::::::::5~~~--~--.·.·.·.~·:····· :::::ii~· ..;.·.::·.:::.__! 
-------------------~­
3

Monday, September 20, 1976 the observer 





Possible gunshot fired at Nickie's 
by Jack C. Silhavy StaH Reporter 

What may have been a gunshot was heard· late Sat. night outside Corby's Tavern but the police would not give details as to what actually happened. A Nickies' checker also reported that a man leaving Nickie's a short while earlier dropped a gun on the front steps of the bar. 
Several persons reported . that 
they heard a loud sharp crack 
which could have been a gunshot, 
• but no one could give a specific. time. Three police cars pulled up a few minutes later and a witness said that "the police had some guy across the street." The police stayed for at least one hour. 
An anxious crowd gathered, but, again no one could be found who knew anything definite. 
The South Bend Police first denied having dispatched the cars. They then refused to release any information, saying that it could not be given over the phone. 
No preliminary report wa·s filed with the South Bend Tribune, which ususally receives accounts of all police activities. 
A Nickies' checker, who asked that his name be withheld, stated that he saw a male come out of 
Mowatt lectures on Shake:speare 
by Donna Berndt 
StaH Reporter 

Women in Shakespeare was the topic of a presentation by Barbara Mowatt last Wednesday evening at the first of the American Scene Lecture Series. The associate professor of English at Auburn University was greeted by a capa­city crowd in Carroll Hall. 
Mowatt began her talk by ex­plaining her unusual title, "The Wicked Witch is Dead." "The image of female characters in Shakespeare," Mowatt said, "is that of a wicked woman symboliz­ing evil, who is destroyed in a Wizard of Oz-like manner." 
Mowatt then illustrated the divi­

sion of Shakespeare's women into 
two categories; goddess and en-
Keenan coals cause chaos 

A fire broke out in a trash recepticle behind-Keenan Hall Sunday afternoon. 
According to John Quinn, who reported the fire, two men, about 20 years old, dumped barbeque coals in the receptical shortly before the fire started. 
''I thought at first that some­thing in my room, like my' fan, overheated," Quinn said. · 
"Then I looked outside and saw these five-foot flames jumping out of the trash recepticle ," he added. 
The Notre Dame fire department put the fire out and received a standing ovation. 
chantress, witch and harlot. The ijrst group "had the purity to bewitch and seduct" and the latter "had the power to attract and transform." 
"Midsummer Night's Dream exemplifies the young maiden who bewitches her lover'' said Mowatt. She went on to say that the whole play deals with this "bewitching power-'' Mowatt pointed to similar uses of the "enchantress" in King Lear, Love's Labor's Lost, Much Ado About Nothing, and Two Gentlemen of Verona. 
"In Shakespeare's romances the pattern changes," said Mowatt, for the young maiden remains pure and beautiful in contrast to wicked stepmothers and lustful mother figures. Mowatt further explained, "the incarnation of female evil is destroyed in these plays." The Tempest proved to be a good example as the evil harlot and wicked witch are dead at the end of the play while the young innocent lives on. 
Shakespeare's depiction of "go­ddess, enchantress, witch, and harlot" has a deeper meaning, stated Mowatt, for he describes the hero's reaction to the female character as different to that of the audience and other characters. 
This discrepancy, argued Mowatt, is based on the fact that the hero's attraction for the beautiful maiden makes him susceptible to her power. Thus Shakespeare's use of the various images for his female characters merely explains the Nickie's and drop a gun out of his coat. He was unable, however, to give the time. 
"He came out of Nickie's with a long brown coat on and I don't know if it was in his pocket or sleeve or what," he said. "He walked to the bottom of the stairs and it dropped there on the sidewalk. It looked like a toy and he started twirling it around his finger like it was a toy gun." 
The man then pocketed he gun and walked away. 
A short time later, the checker heard a sharp report he thought might be a gunshot. Several others • standing around him commented 

Not ~erely a Graduate Level Engineering Program 
The Navy Nuclear Power Program is a total systems approach 1to problem solving. Admiral H. G. Rickover implemented this program to train intelligent men to address complex problems through knowledge and understanding rather than rote compliance to set procedures. This is the most selective and highest paying Engineering specialty in the Na~. In addition to full pay and benefits, it includes a $1,500 bonus for completion of Nuclear Power School and a $20,000 four year continuation bonus. 
The Navy needs some very special Notre Dame Graduates who aren't afraid to find out how good they are. 
NAVY ON CAMPUS 
OCTOBER6-8 

MAKE APPOINTMENTS WITH PLACEMENT OFFICI: 
about it too, he said. They said it robbed in Leeper Park on Sept. 11. may have been a firecracker or a During the summer one 18-year-old truck backfire, but their initial was also shot in front of Nickie's. thought was of the gun. "I don't Prof. Arthur Quigley of the know if it was him, but it makes Northeast Neighb<1thood Confer­sense and it.fits," said the Nickie's ence said taht this violence is very employee. unusual. He stated that the area 
This adds to the apparent rash of has a rather high pilfering rate, but violence in this bar neighborhood. a very low rate of violence. Two Notre Dame students were The Observer will follow this beaten last week in front of their story up in later issues as more home and another assaulted and facts become available. 
"fantasy element of male/female 
relationships.'· 
In this manner, the male charact­ers of MidslllDlmer Nights's Dream· fantasize the bewitching power of the female characters. Further, in the Winter's Tale, the King hallu­cinates the bad qualities that do not exist in his wife. 
Mowatt's talk covered the entire range of Shakespeare's women and their role in male fantasy. She suggested that female fantasy was not given equal treatment because Shakespeare, like all other major writers of the time, was writing from the male point of view. 

Mondale to tour northern Indiana 
Senator Walter Mondale, Demo­cratic Vice Presidential candidate Rosalyn Carter and Mrs. Monda!~ will make a whistle stop speech in Plymouth at the LaPorte St. Station on Tuesday, September 21 at 5:30 
p.m. 
A rally will precede at 4:00 

p.m. 
They will be joined by Senator Vance Hartke and Robert Strauss, chairman of the Democrat­


ic National Committee. FAST  IJ 
TYPEWRITERREPAIR  - 
lfHlttltl  
2915 Mishawaka Ave.  



~~----~~==~~ 
RETREAT WEEKEND I 
I 
I time for reflection I 
and prayer_ 


MORTON KELSEY 
Old College -·Friday eve through 1 Sunday mom -Sept. 24-25-26 Fee:$6 ($3 deposit is non-refundable} 



The Observer is published ion of a majority of the Edito­Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chiefby student!>, of the Univer­rial Board. Commentaries are Dan Sanchez Managing Editor . sity of Notre Dame and St. the views of their authors. 
Chris Smith Asst. Manioging Ed. 
· Mary's College. It does not Column space is available to Gregg Bangs Executive Editor necessarily reflect the policies all members ofthe community, Val Zurblis Executive Editor 
of either institution. The news and letters are encouraged to Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor 
is reported as accurately and promote the free expression of Bob Mader Exec: News Editor as objectively as possible. varying opinions on campus. Maureen Flynn Campus Editor Editorials represent the opin-Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor 
Business Manager Tom Fronczak Don Reimer Copy Editor Advertising Manager Mike Miller Tim O'Reiley Features editor Photo Editor Tony Chifari Fred Herbst · Sports Editor Production Manager Martha L. Fanning 
Monday, September 20, 1976 

seriously, folks 


Foxbat Repair Inc. 
~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii art bu c hw a I d 


opinion Bishops for Justice 
~~~~~--------~---john clapp 
For several weeks now, there seems to have been a big "to-do" over the Catholic bishops who first met with Mr. Carter and then with Mr. Ford. There have been articles about them in Time and Newsweek magazines, various newspapers throughout the country, and even our own Observer. None of those articles seem to be very compli­mentary to the bishops. And I think that is a shame. 
The ultimate crime in any soc­iety. no matter how "primitive," is murder--that is--the unsanctioned taking of human life. The bishops are of the firm belief that abortion is such a crime. They have there­fore taken steps, within the rights granted to all Americans, to fight such a crime by working to change the law as it now stands. 
I have unfortunately nothing to say to those people who believe that abortion is right. But those who feel that it is wrong and yet will do nothing to prevent it, are indeed like Pontius Pilate. He knew that Christ was an innocent, yet he did nothing but wash his hands. of the whole, disturbing affair. 
It is the duty of these bishops, as Christians, to tight all injustice. It 

ingalong junk 
has nothing to do with sectarian morality. Ifthat were the case, then the millions of other Christians and 
Jews who are fighting abortion as well, would certainly not be doing so. It is not even the only ''Cath­olic" issue, as some people believe the bishops think. It simply has gotten more press than other issues, such as aid to parochial schools. Rather, it has to do with whether responsible men and wo­men of all faiths or none, will allow this or any taking of human life to go on; whether it be in sterilized hospitals, on the streets, in an electric chair, in old-folks homes, or even in war. "Silence is con­sent" is the old adage. · 
If we as a nation maintain that all murder is illegal no matter what the Supreme Court rules, we must then go on record acknowledging that fact. This is certainly not to say this will eliminate all abortions. Those who believe that are fooling 
.only themselves. Programs, both private and public, must be insti­tuted to aid and educate those who do not want or who cannot afford to have children--that goes for men as well as women. 
Finally one must ask those who say that Catholics do not listen to their bishops any more, or that they do not represent the feelings of the majority of Catholics: If this is true, then why is there such a fuss being made? Why have these men received so much attention from the press or the two presidential candidates? Perhaps those that think that Catholics do not listen to their bishops are really, to use some ''pop psychology,'' reflecting their own lack of respect for temporal or spiritual authority. It seems to be the fashion. 
Anyways, let all responsible people in this country unite not under the banner of some secular morality but under the banner of Justice--Justice for the poor, the aged, women, the Black-American, the Native-American, the His­panic-American as well as the unborn American, who has no voice at all. We are personally against the injustice done to these people everyday. Are we to do nothing about them as well? Then how dare we smirk at men who are trying to fight at least one segment of this injustice? 
What's Your Maior? 
~~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii joe giII 
During the two weeks that have direction as opposed to another. elapsed since school began, one Secondly, individual majors posess frequently-asked conversational general characteristics that aren't question when meeting new friends always applicable · everyone. · unless one make a conscious at-("Pre-med? You must be a tempt to avoid it, has been the cutthroat." But · the major that quintessential query: What's your you choose doesn't necessarily major? guarantee you'II be doing what 
As one who has answered this you'd like to do later on in life. question time and time again, I can truthfully say that there is no real During the summer, I met dif­satisfactory reply. First of all, the ferent people who weren't very concept of a major is too isolated, happy with their 'chosen occupa­too vague, to fully explain the tions. They were all college 
reasons that I'm heading in on graduates, yet somehow, the posi­tions they were in (arising primari­ly from their collegiate back­grounds) weren't particularly satisfying. They just weren't happy. 
One of these people was a Buffalo policeman who had just begun his own ice cream shop after ten years on the force. His name is Jim, and he lives across the street from my sister, Terri. After dinner one night, she and I stopped at his ice cream parlor for dessert, and 
luckily, he was there, too. Terri and I ordered hot fudge sundaes and sat down to talk with him. 
After he mentioned that he had only been in business for three weeks, Terri asked "Whatever gave you the idea of doing this?" Jim, who's in his late thirties with greyish-black hair, paused a min­ute and then replied, "Well, I was kinda disappointed that you could never get a good hot fudge sundae around her." We laughed, and Jim continued, "Most of the places add some kind of chocolate syrup that waters it down; but anyway, I've always wanted to do something like this. And everyday, I've driven past this place on my way home from work, noticing that it was always boarded up, but think­ing that it would be a really good location for something like this. And so, I talked it over with my wife, she agreed, and I bought it." 
With that, Jim smiled, the proud smile of an entrepreneur in busi­ness for the first time. 
''I've always wanted to do some­thing like this" --that's what Jim said, and it really struck me back then, just as it strikes me now when I wonder about my major in terms of a career. Jim had gone through four years of college and then to a police academy, but it was only· now, finally, that he was doing what he really wanted to do. 
WASHINGTON--When Lieu­tenant Viktor Belenko of the Soviet Air force delivered a spanking new MIG-25 "Foxbat" fighter plane to the Japanese last week, there was tremendous excitement amongst all Western military commands. The Foxbat ·is considered the world's fastest warplane and every­one, especially the U.S. Air Force intelligence people, were dying to have an opportunity to examine every toggle switch on it. 
The Japanese knew the Soviet Union would put tremendous pres­ure on them to have the MIG-25 returned immediately so they ask­ed the United States how they could stall for time. Pentagon officials huddled for a few days and then a general came up with the answer. "What we need is an expert in stalling--someone who can keep the .M~G from being sent back and at the same time not offend the Soviets." 
"Whom do you have in mind?" the secretary of defense asked. 
"Charley Muleback." 
"Who the hell is Charley Mule­back?" another general asked. 
"I  can't  tell  you  now,"  the  
general replied.  
Muleback  was  flown  out  that  

evening. He arrived at KHakodate airport and was taken to the Foxbat which had been completely sealed off by the Japanese and under heavy guard. In another part of the airport an angry Russian Embassy official was screaming at the Japanese officials that the Soviet Union wanted its MIG back immed­iately, and if they didn't get it there would be serious consequences. 
The Japanese introduced Mule­back to the Russian. 
"Tell him," Muleback said, "tnat the plane's been completely totaled .and we're going to have to start from scratch to rebuild it.'' 
A Japanese official translated this. to the Russian. 
The Russian protested that the plane was in perfect condition and there wasn't a scratch on it. 
Muleback shook his head. "That's what all MIG-25 owners say, but they never look under­neath the plane where the real damage is. Besides, we're going to have to replace the two afterburn­
ing jet engines. At the impact ot landing, they were wrecked beyond repair and I believe they wouldn't 
' 
last another 500 miles. Tell him I 
personally called the spare parts 
factory in Lansing, Mich., and they 
promised they would air freight the 
engines in two months." 
The Russian made a telephone 
call to his superiors and then .returned. "We'll take the plane as it is," he told the Japanese, "and make our own repairs." 
Muleback, when told what the 
Russian said, replied, "Even if the 
afterburning engines worked, 
we're going to have to put in all 
new air intake valves. They're a 
mess. And we have to replace the 
grill on the radar nose cone and the 
wheels will have to be realigned. 
And we have to change the oil 
filters which means removing the 
radar equipment from the cockpit. 
We found some dirt in the gaskets 
that control the air-to-air missiles, 
and we'll have to send away to 
Shreveport which is the only place 
that still makes them.'' 
The Russian was screaming at 
the Japanese, "Just give us the 
plane as it is!" 
Muleback listened to the trans­
lation and shook his head. 
"I'm sorry, mister. It's too late now because we've got the whole thing torn apart. We were under the impression you wanted your MIG plane fixed so no one would ever know it had been totaled on a Japanese runway." 
The Japanese officials were hor­rified to see the Russian Embassy official beat his head against the ticket counter. 
That night the general in the Pentagon received a cable which said, "I did like you said. Regards, Muleback." 
The elated general showed it to everyone at the meeting. 
"All right," the secretary of defense said. "Who the hell is Muleback?'' 
The general replied, ''He runs a body shop in Alexandria. My kid smashed up my Mustang and it took Muleback six months to repair it. I figured if it took him six months to repair a Mustang, it would take him three years to patch up a MIG-25, providing he can get all the parts. " 


exactly what I was doing here, and if my chosen major would help in the quest for happiness. Unfor­tunately, the answers eluded me. 
And although I'm not ready to go out and buy an ice cream parlor in a fit of despair, I'm going to keep looking for these answers. Until I find them, until I'm happy with them. 
What's your major? 

All he really wanted in life, or so it seemed, was a chance to talk with others and make them smile, and work at a place in which both were possible. And now he had it. 
I was somewhat jealous. With six years of school left, I have few expectations of being successful, or better yet, happy. It's just too far away, and I began to question 
r--------------------------------------------------------------­
The Fall TV Preview 


David 0'Keefe 
The new television season usually holds out about as much promise as the coming of winter. The fall premieres serve not so much to get us excited anout the new upcoming shows as much as they remind us of the vast intellectual wasteland that lies within the borders of the 24-inch screen. 
In fact, one can more accurately gauge the mood of the three networks not so much by what they offer in the way of new shows as by which old shows they retain, and this season they've retained some beauties. High on the lost of flaccid trash we can expect for at least another season are Starsky and Hutch, The Six Million Dollar Man, The Bionic Woman, Emer· gency! and Switch. Lest these shows become lonely, they have been provided 
with  all  sorts  of  new  friends.  
Some samples:  
Delvecchio  (9:00 P.M.,  Sunday, CBS):  

Judd Hirsch plays Delvecchio, who is, amazingly, a cop. But he is a very special cop. He is the systhesis of every endearing salient feature of Baretta, Kojak and Elliott Ness with a dash of Mike Stone. He is a contrived character artfully designed to attract a chunk of the cops-and-robbers audience. but its going to take some fine acting by Hirsch as well as at least a modicum of creati've originality for this show to survive. Executive Suite (9:00 P.M., Monday, CBS): This show might die young just 
because it's so confusing. I guess the best way to describe it is as a prime-time soaper. But the collection of characters is astounding. Adulteresses, bigots, alcohol­ics, power-hungry executives, mistresses, rebellious children and God knows what else promise to make Executive Suite-a bust... Unless, and this could well happen, it happens to catch the fancy of the same audience that made Rich Man-Poor Man such a phenomenal success. But until such time, and even afterwards, this program remains a vaccuous exploitation of the more embarassing side of TV viewers. 

The Quest 

Baa Baa Black Sheep (7:00P.M. Tuesday, NBC): Robert Conrad plays World War II flying ace Pappy Boyington, who assem­bles a gang of misfits for special tasks, ostensibly for their "lack of brains and talent for trouble." Given half a chance this show might have gotten off the . ground, but the time slot erased its half a chance. Whoever at NBC put this show opposite Happy Days and Laverne and Shirley has a definite talent for trouble. 
Gemini Man (7:00P.M., Thursday, NBC): Ben Murphy is a typical television actor, pretty face and trim body. Except in this show it all disappears for 15 minutes at a time. 
It seems there was some sort of nuclear accident and Ben got zonked by some weird rays. Now he can make himself disappear, but only for 15 minutes at a time or elas he'll just fade away. You can probably imagine how valuable Ben is to spies and governments and the sort, and you can just imagine how his 15-minute deadline will lend itself to all sorts of frenetic, nail-biting conclusions each week. I don't know about Ben but I think this show might fade away. Soon. 
Best Sellers (8:00 P.M. Thursday, NBC): The idea is to adapt popular fiction for television. While there may not be any problem with the execution of these movies, the trend in the quality of recent bestsellers will probably be enough to doom this one. 
Spencer's PUots (7:00P.M., Friday, CBS): It looks like it's going to be a bad season all in all for the airplane shows. This one promises to be one of those cutesy crime-fighting chase-sequence formulas that makes Starsky and Hutch so incredibly bad. 
Serpico (9:00 P.M. Friday, NBC): There are really only two major problems with this one. First of all, a series based on the career of undercover cop Frank Serpico hardly stands a chance in the inevitable comparisons with Sidney Lumet's film and Peter Maas' book. And David Birney, a talented actor whose previous nightmares have included Bridget Loves Birney, will be hard-pressed to be nearly as convincing as was AI Pacino. Pitted against ABC and CBS movies and preceded by a strong lead-in in The Rockford Files. however, Serpico could be a very pleasant surprise in 
a not-too-di·~·~·· 
The comedy-variety offerings are varied. Old reliable Carol Burnett is back on Saturday nights, unreliable Sonny and Cher precede Kojak on Sunday, Tony Orlando and Dawn have added George Carlin to their Tuesday night show, and Donny and Marie Osmond are back on Friday might with their shiny teeth and sequins. The new entries: Cos(6:00 P.M., Sunday, ABC): It's good to have Bill Cosby back on TV. This is his second go-around, if you want to count his show in which he played a high school phys­ed teacher, but not many people want to count that. This program is aimed at young viewers, but it is hard to believe that Cosby's brilliant and sometimes hectic humor could be aimed at any one group. Armed with a strong series of guests, Cos could take a run at Walt Disney's show, the perennial powerhouse in the time slot. 
The Captain and Tennille (7:00 P.M., Monday, ABC): This show had a lot of promise when it first started out; an attractive and talented couple with all sorts of recent hits. I don't like the show myself because the Captain comes off as sort of a lemming while Toni Tennille impressed me as an over-bearing Amazon. They'll probably be around for a while, though, just out of sheer desire on the part of ABC to make it work. 

Van Dyke and Company (9:00 P.M., Thursday, NBC): It is very hard to hazard a guess anout the eventual success or failure of this show. Betting against Dick Van Dyke is like betting against Sectrtariat There is no doubt that on the basis of sheer talent and energy Van Dyke is one of the best performers in the history of television, but even his multi-faceted talents might not be enough to overcome the awesome power play that ABC is using to take over Thursday night. 
The comedy shows seem to follow the established pattern: a few innocuous sitcoms with ethnic orracialunderpinnings, made in good faith and intended to be taken with a few grains of salt. With few exceptions, however, the growing reluc­tance of television audiences to laugh at anything may cause a few producers to bite their tongues-in-cheek. 
Holmes and Yoyo (7:00 P.M., Saturday, ABC): Holmes is a regular cop and Yoyo is his partner. Fine, except Yoyo is a robot. John Schuck, a creditable television actor, plays the mechanical man in this bizarre comedy from the people who brought you Get Smart sans Mel Brooks. This haywire series will probably short out halfway through the season unless some fine writing and the almost impossible avoid­ance of robot gags recharg~ its batteries. Mr. T and Tina (7:30 P.M., Saturday.: ABC): The Japanese finally have a sitcom they can call their own, if indeed they wan1 to. Pat Morita (Arnold of Happy Days) plays Mr. T (for Takahashi) and Susan Blanchard is his flaky housekeeper, Tina. The r~ationship between householder and housekeeper has provided a lot of good stuff for Maude and almost all the humot for MacMillan and Wife, but it is doubtful that an entire series on the stuff wouldn '1 become rather dull and dizzy. All's Fair (8:30, Monday, CBS): Another 
l I 

Monday, September 20, 1976 
the observer 5 

entry from the Norman Lear stable, this is the story of a conservative political reporter and a liberal newspaper photographer who fall madly in love and argue happily ever after. If this show makes it, it will be because of the combined efforts of Writer­Producer Lear and two very talented performers, Richard Crenna and Berna­dette Peters. 
Ball Four (7:30P.M., Wednesday, CBS): Jim Bouton doesn't have a whole lot of class. He wrote a somewhat raunchy expose of professional baseball, and spent a considerable amount of time revelling in his role as the intellectual iconoclast of the nation's pasttime. Now he hopes to capitalize again by scoring with this series. I don't know how it ever got up to bat. I hope for Bouton's sake it strikes out on three pitches. 
Alice(8:30 P.M., Wednesday, CBS): A takeoff on Alice Doesn't Liv.e Here Any More, Alice concerns itself with the lives of the working girls in Mel's Diner in Phoenix. There seems to be potential here, and the entire success. or failure of the se~ies will lie where it should be, with the 
writers. NancyWalker(8:30 P.M., Thursday, ABC): Nancy Walker is a very funny and talented lady. Norman Lear has created for her the role of a Hollywood talent agent with a neurotic daughter, a recently-returned­from-29-years-at-sea husband and a gay border. If anyone can handle the mess, it's Miss Walker, but she'll need some assistance from the supporting cast to make a go of it. 
And so it goes with the new shows. Television seasons are like the food at the dining hall; you don't really like it but you grin and bear it. But things aren't a total 


Mouies 
The Magic Flute 
Charlie's 
Angels 
loss this year. The season does offer us an occasional "Steak Night" in the form of five shows that have every indication of making it. 
The Five to Watch: 
Most Wanted (9:00. Sawrday, ABC): A Quinn Martin production starring Robert Stack, Most Wanted deals with a special task force within the police department whose mission is to bring to justice only the most wanted criminals, usually the perpe­trators of particularly heinous or brutal crimes. But this is not just another violent cop show. The last time Martin and Stack teamed up, the result was the classic series The Untouchables. The combination of Martin's simplistic narratives and Stack· s relentless anj:l believable acting could make lightning strike twice. 
The Big Event (8:30P.M .. Sunday, NBC): NBC. has lined up an exciting variety of spectals to be shown in this time slot. Under the appropriate heading The Big Event will be movies (Earthquake, Gone With the Wind), documentaries, TV novels children's specials and concerts. CharUe's Angels (9:00 P.M., Wednesday, ABC): I don't mind being pandered to in the least. Seriously. the premiere episode was cleverly crafted if a little incredible. But there are a lot of incredible things on television these days. If you don't believe me just look at Farrah Fawcett-Majors. 
The Quest (9:00 P.M. Wednesday, NBC): The television Western is a vanishing breed. The Quest rides the range alone this year. But it is a different type of Western, one that promises to portray the American West with the necessarily violent historical accuracy. But it is not the predictable and obligatory violence that 
(continued on page 7) 


TimO'Reiley 
''Enchanting ... The New York Times," "Warm and charming ... Billboard:" so read the cliche-ridden ads for Ingmar Bergmann's producton of The Magic Flute (Die Zauberfloete.) But for once, these and a plethora of other synonyms do accurately describe the movie, a greatly different version from many others that have been staged over the work's long history. 
Composed in 1791 by Wofgang A. Mozart, it proved to be his last opera before his death later in the year. He wrote it as a defense of the Freemasons, of which he was one, at a time when they were falling out of favor at the Austrian court. Traditionally, this calls for a very heavy and serious interpretation, emphasizing religious and feminine overtones. . 
Bergmann, however, intentionally drowns the original meaning with lightness and an almost fairy-tale atmosphere. The music (all sung in Swedish with English subtitles) the typically precise and delicate Mozart style, perfectly fits Bergmann's concept. This unusual attempt to film a stage play also features some back-stage vignettes, such as Papageno awakening from a nap, seconds before his entrance on stage, or actresses smoking under no­smoking signs, which further undercut the props of seriousness. 
The story line is simple, almost to the point of being inanae, and definitely subordinate in quality to the music. A­handsome young man (Tamino) is saved from a dragon (wearing something of a Sesame Street costume) by three women who serve the queen. Papageno, a wandering pipe player who wants nothing but a woman out of life, appears and trys to take credit for the slaying, but is caught and rebuked by the women. They show Tamino a Iockett of Pamina (with a picture that comes to life), the daughter of the queen who was kidnapped by Zarastro, described as a rival and evil king. Pamino falls madly in love with the princess, and 
goes off to rescue her, with the magic flute 
given him by the queen. 
Once he reaches Sarastro's land, he fins the flute powerless (except on Papageno, who came, too), and is soon brought before Sarastro's court. There Tamino, along with Pamina, undergoes tests of Earth, Fire, Air, and Water and passes them all. Papageno fails them all and is about to hang himself when three children spirits, who earlier replaced the three women, bring him a wife Papagena, and together they have a flock of Papagenos and Papagenas. Meanwhile, Pamina has rejected her increasingly shrewish mother, and joins Tamino in marriage in Sarastro's kingdom. They then achieve a higher state of spiritual happiness than they had ever known before. 
To Mozart, this all symbolized a rejec­
tion of the contemporary society and its 
women. The initiation into Sarastro's 
kingdom somewhat mirror the rites of the 
Freemasons, and higher order they achieve 
thereafter. 
The outlook of the child, however, 
exemplifies Bergmann's interpretation. He 
focuses on the face of one child repeatedly, 
between and during several long shots 
during the overture. The movie opens with 
scenes of the greenery surrounding the 
theater, complete with sunset and twit­
tering birds. None of the actors appears 
any too serious either, re-enforcing the 
child's view that it is all a fairy-tale. 
Despite all he plot and thematic conjec­ture, the dominating force of the play is Mozart himself. He is the only person that gets a credit. During the overture, the camera flashes to a variety of people besides the girl, of all races and ages, and 
·eventually flashes back to portraits of 
Mozart. His genius for entertaining people 
Rlakes him a man worthy of such 6dulation. 


Monday, September 20, 1976
the observer
6 




Record 950 students pledge Wednesday fast 
by Mary Mungovan 75 cents, according to Kathy Rost, thoroughly researched by the Coa­''The Mass will also provide an in front of the dining halls. 
Senior Staff Reporter Fast Drive chairperson. lition to insure that they are alternative activity for those who Activities for this semester in­"With 950 people fasting every international in scope, and operate will be fasting Wednesday, since it clude the fast program, weekly Wednesday from Sept. 22 to Dec. with maximum efficiency and mini­takes place at the dinner hour," Masses and the dining hall col­
''A record 950 students pledged 

8, we should receive over $7,000," mum overhead," Allen explained. Hinicker stated. "We hope that lections. Approximately 40 Coali­to fast one night a week all Rost stated. "If a pledge is broken Off-campus students carr also every Wednesday at this time we tion members collect outside of the semester to demonstrate their con­for even one meal, however, the participate in the fast program by will be able to provide some form of Notre Dame and St. Mary's dining cern for the problem of hunger," dining hall will not be obligated to fasting one night a week and worship service for the fasters," he halls this year, replacing AI SondejKitty Warner, World Hunger Coa­
contribute for any other meals that mailing the price of that meal to the added. at Notre Dame and Greg Gramel­lition representative, announced a student skips," she emphasized. Hunger Coalition., according to The Notre Dame World Hunger spacher at St . Mary's.yesterday. 
According to Doug Allen, Coa­Rost. Coalition was first formed in No­The hunger organization will The Coalition ran the pledge 
lition advisor, 75 per cent of the ''The purpose of the fast is not vember, 1974, to "educate the sponsor a meeting tonight at 7 p.m. 
drive, now in its fourth semester, 

money received will go to overseas only to contribute money to under­Notre Dame and South Bend in LaFortune theatre for all current from Sept. 13 to Sept. 17 in the relief agencies such as CORR, developed countries for food and Community about global hunger" members and all those interested Notre Dame dining halls. For each CARE and UNICEF, and 25 per development programs," she ex­and to raise money for the hungry, in becoming members. 
meal pledged, the Notre Dame 

cent to the hungry of South Bend. plained, "We also hope that stu­according to Allen. Last year, in "Over 16 million people die each 
Food Service has agreed to donate "Each of the agencies has been dents can become more aware of addition to the fast program, the year from malnutrition and star­the problem and what it means to Coalition sponsored an Offering of vation," Rost declared. "This year be hungry by experiencing hunger Letters Drive to support a food the Coalition plans to .get involved 
for themselves.'' resolution in Congress, sent dele­not only economically, but political­
Riegle speaks in Niles area, 
attacks Ford administration 
VincentMsocheUa toes of 57 bills "intended to help Political Reporter the people'' and his retention of 
Michigan Democratic Senatorial Nixon policy planners Arthur candidate Donald Riegle made his Burns, Alan Greenspan and Henry tirst fall campaign swing through Kissinger. the Niles area this past Saturday. Riegle called Michigan's 1Oo/o Riegle, a five term Congressman rate of unemployment "a dis­from Flint, was seeking support in grace" and called the Carter-Mon­his bid to replace the retiring Philip dale-Reigle ticket Michigan's best Hart (Democrat) in the U.S. Sen­chance "to get moving again". ate. He also spoke on behalf of Shirt sleeved and with tie askew, local Democratic candidates during Riegle pledged that he would be "a his visits to the Niles Democratic fighter in the Senate for the people headquarters and an-Edwardsburg of Michigan" the same way he was fundraising barbeque. in the House, where he became 
The 38 year old Congressman known as a leader of the anti-war addressed his remarks throughout movement and a major antagonist the day towards what he termed of Richard Nixon. the lack of leadership in the Originally a Republican, Riegle's "Nixon-Ford Administration." He ideological disagreements with the labeled Gerald Ford a "nice guy" Nixon Administration led him to but a "poor President". and a switch parties in early 1973. Riegle "figurehead" for the continuing is best know outside of his home­policies of his predesscessor, Ri­state for his 1972 bestseller, 0 chard Nixon. As evidence of this Congress which dealt with the life continuum, Riegle cited Ford's ve-of a young Congressman. 



rnichael.!s ---­
tlair st~LinQ
etc. 
FOR APPT. CALL: 272-7222 18381 EDISON RD. AT SO. BEND AVE. 

' 
I 
r 
~ 
BUNCH-OF-LUNCH 
All You Care To Eat! ­
$216 

11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.-7 Days Week 
Pizza-Chicken-Spaghetti-Salad ~~uxs 
Ages 1 0 and under 20c per year 
ALL MAJOR SPORTS ON 7FT T.V. 



LIVE MUSIC 
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY NIGHTS BEER AND WINE 7 DAYS AWEEK 
When the fast program was gates to the University Conference ly in the fight against global initiated in the spring semester of on Hunger, and collected donations poverty and injustice." 
1975, the program raised only $1100. Last year, the "Wednesday Night Fast Program" brought in $4,000 first semester with almost 500 participating and over $5500 second semester with over 750 participating_. 
"Such an increase is an indica­tion of a growing awareness both on campus and nationwide," Coali­tion ·member Tim Hinicker com­mented. "The hunger issue is becoming, like abortion, an issue of particular importance to Catholics'' according to Hinicker. 
HEWLETT PACKARD REPRESENTATIVE TUESDAY 10-12 IN BOOKSTORE 
UNITED STATES READING LAB 

OFFERS SPEED READING COURSE AT NOTRE DAME 
United States Reading Lab will offer a 4 If you are a student who would like to week course in speed reading to a limited make A's instead of B's or C's or if you number of qualified people at Notre are a business person who wants to stay Dame. abreast of today's everchanging acceler­
ating world then this course is anThis recently developed method of absolute necessity. 
instruction is the most innovative and ef­fective program available in the United These free special one-hour lectures States. will be held at the following times and places.
Not only does this famous course reduce your time in the classroom to just one class per week for 4 short weeks but it NOTRE DAME MEETINGS also includes an advanced speed reading course on cassette tape so that you can Tuesday: Sept. 21, at 6:30 p.m. and 
again at 8 :30 p.m.
continue to improve for the rest of your life. In just 4 weeks the average student Wednesday: Sept. 22, at 6:30 p.m. and 
again at 8:30p.m. 
should be reading 4-5 times faster. In a Thursday: Sept. 23, at 6:30 p.m. andfew months some students are reading again at 8 :30 p.m. ·20-30 times faster attaining speeds that Friday: Sept. 24, at 6:30p.m. and againapproach 6000 words per minute. In rare at 8:30p.m. 
instances speeds of up to 13,000 wpm have been documented. Sunday: Sept. 26, at 2:30p.m. and again at 5:30p.m. 
Our average graduate should read Monday: Sept. 27, at6:30 p.m. and again 7-10 times faster upon completion of the at8:30 p.m. 
course with marked improvement in comprehension and concentration. 
For those who would like additional TWO FINALMEETINGSinformation, a series of free, one hour, 
orientation lectures have been schedules. 
Tuesday: Sept. 28, at 6:30 p.m. andAt these free lectures the course will be again at 8:30p.m. 
explained in complete detail, including classroom procedures, instruction meth­ods, class schedule and a special 1 time only introductory tuition that is less than one-half the cost of similar courses. You 
THESE MEETINGS WILL BE HELD ATmust attend any of the free meetings for NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR CONTIN­information about Notre Dame classes. 
UING EDUCATION
These orientations are open to the public, above age 14 (persons under 18 
If you are a businessman, student,should be accompanied by a parent if housewife or executive this couse, whichpossible). 

took 5 years of intensive research to develop, is a must. You can read 7 -1 0 times faster, comprehend more, concen­If you have always wanted to be a trate better, and remember longer.
speed reader but found the cost prohibi­Students are offered and additionaltive or the course too time consuming ... 
discount. This course can be taught tonow you can! Just by attending 1 evening tindustry or civic groups at "Groupper week for 4 short weeks you can read 7. 
rates" upon request. Be sure to attendto 10 times faster, concentrate better and whichever free orientation that fits best in comprehend more. 
your schedule. 
Monday, September 20, 1976 the observer 
overall, unusuaL It is the product of 
network executives who are de­
monstrating a faint response to
The Fall TV Preview ERRATUM
even feebler sings from audiences, 
(continued from page 5) 
marks most programs. Rather, it is more like another feature of the landscape that the two heroes ride over in search of their sister, who was kidnapped by Cheyenne In­dians. 
The Tony Randall Show (8:00 P.M., Thurday, ABC): Judge Walter Franklin is the perfect character for Tony Randall: a man who is seemingly on top 'of things but in reality is victimized and confused by the people and the world that surround him. Be it his children, his secretary, his court clerk or his housekeeper, he always comes out on the short end of the exchange. This show will probably be a smash just out of the sheer endearment inspired by both Wal­ter Franklin and Tony Randall. 
The fall season will be a little less violent, a bit more creative and, that are not easily amused or entertained. Perhaps they are, but I don't believe so. I think there is probably a widespread ignorance of the potentials of TV that breathes new life into the Starskeys and Hutches, the bionic people, the police women and blue knights. It is a sad art that shows distant signs of achievement, and this season is no exception 
Due to a typographical error, the column printed Friday entitled "Shaking Off The Gipper's Ghost" read "We hope that our season is I and 10." The original copy of the article read "We hope our season is 10 and 1." The Observer regrets the error. The editorial layout man has been hanged. 
Notices 
Will teach flute in your spare time. Call Beth-8112 for more info. 
For free delivery & low prices on kegs just call Chip 288-7878. 
Morrissey Loan Fund $20-1 SO 1_day wait. 1 percent interest due in 30 days. LaFortune Basement. M-F 11:15-12:15. 
Flanner Records now open for business. L. P. •s in stock and on order. List $6.98. Our price $4.65. 8-tracks and casse«es also avail­able. List $7.98. Our price $5.75. Ask for prices and information on car decks and speakers, blank tapes, 
C. B.'s, and other accessories. Call 1492 or stop by 809 Flanner Hall. 
Student Health Insurance still avail­able. For info come to Rm. 105 Infirmary or call 657 4 3:30-4:30 Mon-Fri. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. 
For Rent 
For Rent: Furnished six bedroom home, two baths, fireplace, 2 blocks from Notre Dame in safe neighbor­hood. $225 a month plus utilities. Also four bedroom furnished, four blocks from Notre Dame. $17 5 a month plus utilities. 277-3604 even­inns. 

4 bedroom house for rent in ND area. $350 plus deposit. Call Jim Zimmer, (616)445-2471. 7 a.m.-4:30 p.m. 
Lost & Found 
Lost: Kodak instamatic camera. No questions. Cash reward. Brian 8462. 
Lost: 1 high school ring--says Benet Atademy. Red stone, yellow gold setting, 1974 ring, initials P.A.R.; 1 St. Mary's class ring; traditional diamond chip, 1978 ring, initials 
P.A.R. B.A. gold antiqued setting. They were lost somewhere between .'llotre Dame & St. Mary's. 
Lost: Clear and black lighter with fish hook at Jungle Jim's birthday party. If found call Harsh at 8212. Great sentimental value. 
Found: Beige cardigan sweater. In vicinity of LaFortune. Call 8042. 
Wanted Needed: 2 or 4 GA Oregon tix. Call Steve 287-6058. 
Need 2 Oregon tix. Will pay $$$. Call Steve at 287-6823. 
Part-time work; telephone ticket sales. Evenings & Saturdays. Pleas­ant working conditions. Salary & bonuses. Call 237-1976 Mr. Richard­son. 
leather with tire tread bottoms. Sizes 3 to 11 (will
Classified Ads 
Mexican huaraches all 
fit guys and gals). For more infor­
mation call Tony at 8212 or come by 
1028 Grace to see.-$13. 
Keep laughing, but I still need two 'Bama tickets, GA preferred. Paul 1154. 
3 'Bama' tickets needed -anything reasonable-8775. 
Need 2 to 4 Alabama tickets. No scalpers please. Call 8042. 
Need 6 Oregon tickets, not necessar­·ily together. Call Robbie 8706. 
I need 2 people for interesfing sales work, car necessary, call 272-1966. 
Need 2 Alabama tickets. Please help -call Pengy: 4-4381. 
Need 2 or 4 GA Oregon tickets. Call Mark 1473. 
Aggressive gentleman to help Gen­eral Manager part-time. Will trade salary for room and board. Call 272-7522 for interview. 
Ride needed to and from Cincinnati, weekend of 24th. 1334. 
For Sale 
'62 Mercedes, 4-dr, fine condition, radials, stereo 8 -track. $1100. 287-7693. 
12-string Giannini Guitar -asking $90-will talk -swwap for 6 string (steel) of comparable value. Call Bill 8795. 
3-piece bedroom set -$50.00. Good condition. Call 272-2520 after 3 p.m. 
NEW LONDON LAKE CONDO­MINIUM 2 bedrooms, den 2 car garage. $33,900. Sandy Stroes 272-7750-272-2697. 
For Sale: Northwestern tix. Call 289-8316. 
Personals 
On Monday evening, the Night Editor would be overjoyed if she had a staff of 40 or 50 to help celebrate her birthday-Happy 19th, Debbie! Je t'aime. 
JBM 
.. I love you! 
.... Crackers 
Crackers??!!? 
S.A.D.' -Happy 20th you. sweet thaing. P.T.L. 
Sr. Kathleen Rossman -you're terrific! W a Ish loves you!. GBC. 
Happy Birthday to our Darling 
Oahrling! We couldn't get Mel 
Daniels and the hobos (they sent 
theH-love), but we'll have a party 
anyway. 
.. With love and eternal devotion, 
... Th Observer Sports Staff 
P.S. Since we're all functionally illiterate, we got Mo to write this. 
John, You really do have a nice voice! G 
Ellen, May you have a Happy 21st and straight 6 o. 6-0 matches. Signed. Guess Who? 
109 Walsh can't cope. 
Aufmerksam! Oktoberfest '76 is coming. 
Honey bunny, Happy 22nd birthday, my little pumpkin plant. Drink an extra beer for me. PW V 
Patty, Happy Second! Love, Tom 
OK! This is getting serious! I sat and watched a tailgate party and thought it was the game! Where are those glasses?!?! $25.00 reward for clear framed glasses lost near the bars-Call Tom at 289-0114. 
u PEN lNG 1HIS WEEK! Ray's Massage Parlor. Experienced mas­seur, bring own Jergen•s lotion. 


Banquet MAN 
PLEASERS DINNERS $1.09 
A<g. while ­supplies last 

USDA Grade A Swiss or 
ROUND STEAK lb.
$1.09 

MURRAY'S COOKIE$ 11 oz. pkg.



SUPER 


1016 HOWARD, SOUTH BEND 
E&l COUPON E&LCOUPON 
CORNER ACROSS FROM NICKlES 
1SUGARDALE Hardwood II ECKRICH -6 Great Varieties I Smoked Sliced Slender
I II I 
I Bacon ~~g~z. $1.19 1I Sliced Meats ~~gz.. $1 .39 I 
one-half percent low-fat gallon II Coupon Prices Good With ~ I Coupon Prices Good With 1 $1.05 This Coupon Only. One II This Coupon Only. 1
-carton

PRIDE MILK I Co~pon Per Family. Coupons I! One Coupon Per Family. I 1 Valid Thru Sat., Sept. 25, 11 Coupons Valid Thru Sat., 1 1976. • Sept. 25, 1976.
I 
32 oz. boHies 

-------------~-----------~ 
E&LCOUPON E&LCOUPON
CANFIELDS FLAVORS 4/$1.001 II OSCARMAYERAII Meat
SWIFT All Beef or All Meat I II or Beef Sliced 
12
Franks oz. 69~ lb
2 lb. pkg. 1 pkg. 11 Bologna ~kg; $1.19 
Banquet I Coupon Prices Good With I I Coupon Prices Good Wlth ass't I This Coupon Only.·one II This Coupon Only. OneBUFFET SUPPERS 99¢ varieties I Coupon Per F~mily. II Coupon Per Family. Coupons • 1 Coupons Valid Thru Sat., II Valid Thru Sat., Sept. 25, 1 Sept. 25, 1976. · 1976 
HOURS: 
~--~--------~~-~----------· 
PRICES EFFECTIVE
MON. thru SAT. 8 A.M .. to 9 P.M. SUNDAY 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. 
THRU SAT. SEPT_. ~25 
.. 
--~--­
Monday, September 20, 1976
the observer 

Irish rebound, trounce Purdue 23-0 
happen and two are bad. We
by Fred Herbst 

practiced it all week,l'mjust glad it 
Sports Editor 

worked." The touchdown was setup when difference a week can Purdue coach Alex Agase called for 
What a 

a fake punt with 3:12 to play in the
make. 

half and the ball on the Boiler­
A week after suffering one of 

maker 49. The play backfired on
their most embarassing losses in 

the Purdue mentor as Luther
their proud history, Notre Dame 

Bradley nailed Purdue punter
rebounded Saturday to turn back 

David Eagin for a 13-yard loss
Purdue 23-0. 

attempting to pass.
"I'm proud of our team, we 
The first half was an exercise in
didn't quit," Irish Head Coach Dan 

futility for the Boilermakers as they
Devine said. "Let's face it, last 

let three almost certain touchdowns 
week was last week and this week 

slip from their grasp. In the second 
is this week. We needed this pretty 

quarter Purdue quarterback Mike
bad and I thought we beat a pretty 

Vitali had Reggie Arnold~treaking
good football team." 

wide open to the endzone. Instead
The game was a battle of 

of firing the pass to his receiver,
defenses for the most part with 

Vitali softly tossed the ball to him
both coaches avoiding the use of 

giving Bradley the opportunity to
the passing game. Purdue didn't 

recover and make a diving de­
throw a pass until 6:49 was 

flection of the pass at the two yard
remaining in the first quarter. 

line.
Notre Dame avoided the air route 
Later in the quarter, Paul Berry
until a mere 52 seconds remained 

intercepted a Slager pass and had
in the opening quarter, and then 
' 

only Slager and five blockers
only put the ball up three times in AI Hunter rushed for 96 yards, passe for a touchdown and received the Offensive Player of the 
between him and the goal line.
the first half and eight times in the Game award as the Irish dumbed Purdue 23-0 for their first win of the season Saturday. (photo
Interestingly, none of the blockers 
by joe Burns)
game, completing four and having 

bothered to block Slager who made 
one intercepted. way to p~ydirt, giving the Irish a last season and was good for a 
Jeff Weston, Vince Klees and Pat

the score-saving tackle.
Asked why he didn't pass more comm.a.ndmg 17-0 lead. . two-pont conversion. 
Boogs on the list of Irish who are
Finally, on the last play of the 

Trailmg by 17, the Bo1l7rmake~s Reeve's field goalleaves him just
in the game, Devine would only out for the season. Joe Montana
half, Arnold hauled in a Vitali pass
answer that ''I wanted to finish were forced to go to the atr, and tt one short of tying Bob Thomas' may or may not be out for the
at the Notre Dame two yard line
with on.: point more than Purdue became apl;larent why they .hadn't Irish career mark. The junior now season. 
only to fall, without having an Irish
scored. passed e~rher. It was practically a has 20 three-pointers to his credit. • 'This was n heckuva better
defender within five yards of him, 
After Dave Reeve had put the moral vtctory when a Purdue Randy Harrison was lost to the game than last week," said a
before he could reach the endzone.
Irish ahead with a 39-yard field receiver managed to touch a Vitali team for the season when he smiling Devine. "The way we
On their first possession of the

goal. Notre Dame completed its pass, let alone catch one. For the fractured his left forearm on the played today, we could have beat a
second half Notre Dame drove to
first pass of the day , a 33-yard afternoon, Vitali could only manage last play of the first half. He joins Jot of eo le." 
the Purdue 17 where Reeve's f:eld 
to connect on nine of 32 passes and FCCIOC:IOCICCCIOC:IOCICIOCIOI::aoccoc:oococ,O.~cciOC::IOCICICCIOC::IOOCIOC~
scoring play, with 1:51 remaining goal attempt was blocked. But the had one intercepted. .


in the first half. 

luck of the Irish was evident on this Notre Dame closed the scoringOddly, it was not quarterback drive as Purdue was ruled offside early in the final period on a HunterRick Slager who threw the pass, it and Notre Dame was awarded a dive that capped a 49-yard drive.
was halfback AI Hunter. Hnter's first down on the penalty. On the Reeve missed the point-after­surprise touchdown pass to Mark play before, Hunter had fumbled touchdown attempt and the finalMcLane gave Notre Dame a 10-0 only to have Harry Woebkenberg score stood at 23-0.

lead at the half. 

reclaim it for the Irish. 
Hunter finished the afternoon"There was a lot of luck involved From there, Notre Dame drove to with 94 yards on 23 carries, thein that pass," Hunter said. "When the one where Slager edged his most vards he has ever £ained atyou pass, only three things can 
Notre Dame. Jerome Heavens added 73 yards on 22 carries for the Irish. 
Scott Dierking, Purdue's All­America Halfback candidate, 
managed 95 yards on 21 carries against a tough Irish defense. 
''Execution was the key today,'' Devine said after the tilt. "We were a bit more mature, poised and older than last week. I have to emphasize that we'll get better 
*ObServer . 
Sports 
with age."
-
Hunter's touchdown pass was the second pass that he has thrown in his Notre Dame career. The other was against Southern Cal 
;::~:::. •:::::::~ :::·,:::::.:.::::::::··:=:::::::::::::::;::::!·::~.:::::::::::::::::;:::::::~:;:. ~. ~::::;::::~ =:=:;;.:~:!:·:·:~:·:·:·:~:-:~:;:~;~:~:~:;:~:~:=:·:~:=!':;~ ~ .~·
Chip Spina 

Thanks, We Needed That 
:::: =:=:::=:::=:=.~=====·:::::(.v.:r.:=======~:.::::·:::z;:j:;;~:·.. ·.. ======:·=:::;;::::::-:.::-. ·=-==::·.~.=::===~===.::==--=·::·=·=:~==-==::·===·=~ High and Inside 
Saturday's one-sided Irish victQI'y over the inept held-to a minimum, which is probably a lot easier on Purdue Boilermakers provided a welcome respite for the health of weak-hearted fans who have seen the victory-starved followers of ND football. The enough interceptions in the last two weeks to last a game climaxed a week surely characterized by ner­year. The offensive line looks to have jelled since last vous tension and anxious anticipation on the campus week's sieve-a-thon. And the coaching staff even of the Football Factory of the Midwest. Now that its rolled out a little razzle-dazzle of its own with such all over, perhaps the best reaction would be "Oh what innovations as AI Hunter's halfback-option TD pass a relief it is." We needed to bask in the sunshine of and David Waymer's end-around. Both plays had the conquest again. And what better way to do it than a Boiler defense rolling in confusion and the spectators second straight shutout over archrival Purdue. The rocking in disbelief, ingrained as they both are to the team and the fans executed well. Possibly a mutual old "up the middle, sweep around theend"playbook. back-patting is appropriate. On the personnel side, Hunter looks to be returning 
to his old swift self, piling up 96 yards in rushing, andThe defense, of course, deserves the most credit. 
getting the Offensive Player of the Game Award. ItPurdue really only got close to a score a few times, looks like the speed demon of the 1973 Sugar Bowl isand on each occasion the ND big D sealed off their still in town after all. Rick Slager finally got to finishendzone, granted through unusual means. Time ran what he started, playing boo-Iessly before beingout in the first half as Mark Vitali completed a pass to replaced along with the first string offense late in the 
the ND 2 yard line. The Boilers fumbled the ball away game, when the victory was assured. Rick even made 
at the Irish four. A Scott Sovereen kick went wide up for his interception by saving a sure TD with a 
right on a 38-yard field goal attempt. But the results 
rolling tackle of the interceptor. 
are the same-impressive. In fact our home-towners Last, but certainly not least, the greatest student 
have . allowed Purdue only one TD in the last 11 body in the world showed the entire squad that we are 
quarters of play dating back to 1974. 

behind the Irish and above bush league tactics, Individuals stand out, especially in the secondary. especialiy when the game starts at a normal holir and 
.. 
Ted Burgmeier seemed possessed, intercepting a doesn't have us all crashing from the effects of Mark Vitali pass and running back a punt 33 yards to four-hour long pregame parties. You couldn't have start scoring drives. Luther Bradley narrowly missed asked for a better supporting cast. a couple of interceptions while helping to shut off the So, the storm 1s behind us. The Irish can head for Riveter's passing offense, and for the second straight the. 2-game road trip breathing a lot easier. There is year ruined an Alex Agase razzle-dazzle sacking no longer a zero in the win column; nor an emptiness punter Dave Eagin on a fake punt-attempted pass in the hearts of the diehards of ND. Whatever may
... 
play. One could legitimately have claimed either as lie ahead of us, for now we feel safer, more secure in the true defensive player of the game. the knowledge thatthe world hasn't come to an end 
The offense looked sluggish through most of the after all. As the coach said, "this was a game Notre first half, but performed when the need arose while Dame had to have." Thanks, guys, we really needed using a slightly revamped game plan. Passing was that. Now let's keep the rally going. 
Scoreboard  
National League East  
Philadelphia Pittsburgh  w 89 85  L 59 63  Pet .601 .574  GB. 4  GR 14 14  
Kansas City Oakland  American League West w L Pet. GB. 87 63 .580 81 69 .540 6  GR 12 12  

Saturday's re~ults MIDWEST Anderson 27, Taylor 24. AU9US1tnt 43, Carthaqe 35. Albion 27, Mount Union o. Benedictine [Kan.] 47, Culver-Stock· ton 10. Belhtl [Minn.] 20, S. W. Minnesota 13. Bulltr 34, Hillsdale 28. Ball stat• 23, Miami [Ohio! 6. 
Bowling Green 53, East. Michigan 12. Capilli 14, Wilmington 0. carroll 17, Oiivet 6. 
Cent. Michlt•n 9, Toledo 7. Ctntrt 21, Oberlin o. Chadron 28, Minot 14. Concordia [R. F.J 28, Ktlemuoo 28. 
Concordia !51. Paull 41, Pillsbury 7. Cornell [Ia.] 28, Ripon 24. Dena 42, Martin Luther 26. Denison 14,•Valparaiso 14. Eureka 20, Lakei~nd 9. F11Tril 41, N. E. Illinois 3. Grand Vallty 10, Michigllll Tach 1. Grinnell 21, Iowa Wesleyan 7. Htnovtr 41, Earlham 0. Hasl!ngs 21, Sioux Falls "· 
Illinois Benedictine 28, Dubuque 1. IllinOIS Colltll 34, St. Ambrose 13. Indiana Central 26, Ros•Hulman 6. Illinois 31, Missouri 6. Illinois wesleyan 47, Elmhurst 0. lowe 41, Syracuse 3. John Carroll 20, Hiram 17. Kansas 38, Kentucky 16. Knox 28, Itloll 7. La Crosse 22, Oshkosll 10. Llkt ·Fortst 42, Marquant 14. Llwrtnce 36, Mount Slllarlo 7. LoriS 13, Marantht 3. Mlelligan 51, Stanton! o. Michig•n State 21, Wyomlnl 10. Minntsota 28, Washington St. 14. Nebraska 45, Indiana 13. 1>4o. Mlchitan 65, St. Norbert o. Notre Damt 23, Purdue 0. Ohio U. 14, Kent State 12. 
Ohio Wesleyan 23, DePaw 20. Oklahoma 28, Cali'lomia 17. Dlivet 28, 51, JOJIPh's lind.] 19. "l•ttevllll 17, River Falls 7. 
ROlli 17, Wtynt [·Ntb.] O. Satlnaw 31, Adrltn 7. 5outllern Illinois 27, Drake 15. 
51. John's [Minn.] 58, Htmlint 21. St. 0111 42, Clr~ton o. 
s. Dill. Tech 21, Roctcy Mountain 14. Tennessee Tech 13, YounutoWII 10. Valley City 37, N. Oak. Science 12. Wabllll 22, Hou 19. 
Werburt 14, Col •· 
WIY~I [Mich.] 29, Northwood 0. Whuton 41, •North Peril o. Wm. Ptnn '7, Monmouth 0. Wiscon•ln 45, North DIMte 9. Writht 31, Tttomtoit Community 7. 
I AIT All"lltnY M, Case Wllttrn 12. Allllrl~an llt'l. 27, so. Connedlcul 7, ArMy 26, Holy Cross If. Blti!Jty o, W. New lntltnd o. Brl...1¥tlar 28, Min. Mtrilillll 11, 
•rown 14, Yilt •· 
California [Pa.) 7, Mansfield o. . 'ent. Conntctlcut 28, 5prlnlfilld H. .C. W. "liSt 27, HOfstra '· 
1:IIJ'Ion 1'6, Dll1w•e State 0. D1tt1110uth 20, Plnnsylvanil o. -111!1.J4. ~·rfiiM.stlll 11­
Fairlellh DICkinson ~7, Rutgers NtW· 
Ilk 0. Frtmlnlhtm 20, New Haven 7. Franklin. & Marshall 20, Gettysburg
II. 
Htrvord l4, Columbia 10. Hobart 44, Rochester 16. lndiena [Pa.J 14, Wilkes o. ltllece 14, Albany state o. :uniato 14, Westminster [Pa.J 7. Keen 7, New York Tech 6. Kinga Point 10, Lafayette 7. Lthlgh 21, Baldwin·Wallace 14. Lock Haven 12, BIOQ.msburg 10. Marvland 24, Wtst 91rginia 3. Mi!Nehusetts 24, Maine 3. Mornian 21, Dickinson 7. Navy 21, Connecticut 3. New Hampahlrt 13, Boston U. o. Nichols 27, curry College 14. Norwich 35, Worcester Tech o. Ohio Stele 12, Penn Stele 7. Plymouth Stele 15, Boston Stall t, Princeton 3/ Corntli o. Rhode ltland 15, Northeastern 14. Rutsers 19, BUcknell 7. Seton Hall 31, Rochester 19. Shl,pensburg 21, Kutztown 13. Sli~lltrY Roell 21, Mllltnvllle 17. 
II. John's ["'.Y.l 7, Stony Brook 0. lt. Llwre~ce 27, Bates 13. 'l'tmple Jl, Gralftblilll 30. WtYIIIIIIurw [..1.] U, Welt Liberty
17. Wtst. ConneciiCIII :w, Mlrlst 6. Wldtntr 16, Ltbtnon Velley '· 
W111. Petterson 22, Trenton St. 19. 
SOUTH Atoballlll 56, soutllern MtthOdlst 3. A'palechlta St. 31, Virttini~ Milll•y
12. Austin Pen '1"1, Man Hill o. Beylor 15, Auburn 14. Bowie State :u, Prostburt '· 
Ctrntlil Mellon 16, Bttlleny [W.
Va.)14. Catawba 25, Carson·Ntwmtn 17. Colgate 17, Davidson 7. Conconl 24, w. Va. State 21. lies! ~entu<kY 28. WiHenflerg 0. Ftflrtl City 20, GtiiJUdll 0. Ploridl A. & M. 35, Alblny [G •.] U. lmory & Henry 24, WISh. & LM 17. GtorMtown [Ky.) 21. Htidelbert a. 
GtOI'!IIa 41, <;lt!Mon 0. . Rl•nboro St. ll, Sali..urv 19. Gltnvlllt 23, W. VI. Tech 8. Homoton tnst. 33, Shaw 0. H•"'~~•n·SYd•e• 14,' Sewann 7. Howard U. 42, Meryl10d-E. Sllon '· 
Mo~;<on 28, Towson ~taft 26. Mis•iulJPi M, Tultnt 7. Mls•is•iPPI St. 30, Louisville 21. Norfolk .State 7, FtYtlttvillt 7, North Caroline 12, Northwtsltm 0 • 
N. Cuo. Ctntrel Jl, Winstoa Stltllt 7. 
S~tPhtrrl 1~, RandGiDh MacOII 7. st. Paul's 7; lri~IIWt!tr {lla.J '· TUJktHI ''-Merrll Brown t.. · Vanderbilt 27, Watt Porest '4; Vlrtlnlt Still 40, lllublth City 28. Virtlnla Ttdt 17, St. Misllnl~ 7. 
. West Maryland 2:1, Uninus 14•. wm. & Mtrv 14, Vtnllnlt t. SOUTHWasT So.•Utah 24, W. Now Mtldco 11. 
PAR WEST . Ct..,HO 21, Wtllllnqton 7. IIWI Still 41, Air P-,, Long Ileac-st. n, Utlh st. 10. 
. Mtl\!.1 Stett 14, Nort!J 1M 







