

· Sponsored by St. Mary's government d«;Pt· 
Washington semester: 'unequaled learning' 


by Marjorie lrr government, international held on how the students' it really is and you don't learn that Asst. St. Mary's Editor relations, international develop­internships applied to their from pro(essors in the ment, urban studies and areas of concentration. Field trips classroom," Williams said. 
Brenda Williams, a junior 
economics. Students in the were taken to places of special On Thursday and Friday, government major at St. Mary's program attend seminars, lecture~ interest. Williams worked in internship for has just returned from Washington and discussions in their area of Congressman Donald Riegle of D.C., where she participated in the concentration three days per week. "Most of the speakers were very Michigan. Riegle asked Williams Washington Semester at American good. Some showed real interest in
The two remaining days are spent tow years ago if she was interested we worked on the campaign,"
the students," said Williams. She
University. in a government internship. in an internship in his office. She Williams added.
noted that field trips were in­
Although she noted a few weak An extensive research paper on declined at that time, but contacted 
points in the program, Williams a specific topic must be submitted teresting because they provided so him when she decided to take the "I really loved working on said that the semester was an at the end of the semester. The much first-hand information. Washington Semester. Capitol Hill. I could see the unequaled learning experience. paper is worth one fourth of the "We went on one to Columbia, Williams explained her work as govenment at work. It inspired me 
She recommended it highly to any fnal grade. Sixteen credits are Maryland, which is a new town. an intern. "At first I was running to work hard," she said. "The students who are interested in earned through the Washington There we saw how they were errands. That was to be expected, 
people in my office made me feel a 
setting up plans for housing. We
government. Semester. since I was new. Then I started part of what was going on and that 
The Washington Semester in­Williams explained that at the also went to the Supreme Court doing constituency mail. That gave me incentive." cludes five different areas of beginning of every week students and saw Justice Douglas just involed reading the mail, doing 
Williams cited other advantages

concentration: American were given schedules of the before he retired," she said. research on the specific problems of the program. "You learn to do various seminars and lectures they "On a trip to a manpower office, and the congressman's policy on thing for yourself. I don't think it's 
were to attend. Almost 90 percept I talked to a man who was on it," she continued. "I then wrote hard to find an internship . Ym 
of the lectures are at various welfare. He said that he'd rather and typed the replies. have to be outgoing, though," shf'
* 
Observer 
Insight 
locations around the city. just pick up his check than go out Congressman Riegle is now run­emphasized.On Wednesday, discussions were and look for a job. That's .the way ning for Senator, so toward the end (continued on page 11; 



server 
university of notre dome -st. mary's college 
Friday, January 16, 1976 

Dedicated to Dr. Bartholomew 
Convention plans outlined 
by Phil Cackley It was reported at the meeting professor of government and Staff Reporter that all the major presidential Gerh.art Niemeyer, professorcandidates have been asked emer~tus of Government and In· 
The 1976 Mock Political Con­toattend the proceedings, but that ternational Studies. The N D vention will be dedicated to the nonehave given definite answers to Band will open each session memory of the late Paul Bar­date. There will be student cam­with 20 minutes of music. tholomew, professor of gover­paign managers for each of the 11 All three weekday sessions will nment and international studies, candidates who include Sen. Fred open at 7 p.m. and will run pastwho passed ~way Dec. 24, Mark Harris, Gov. Jimmy Carter, Rep. midnight. The Wednesday session Frieden, Press secretary for the Morris Udall. Sen. Henry will deal with reports from the convention, revealed last night. Jackson, Sen. Lloyd Benson, Gov. rules and the credentials com­
Bartholomew originated the Terry Sanford, Gov. Milton Shapp, mittees. conventions in 1940 and had been Sargent Shriver, Gov. George Platform decision
involved in their development Wallace and Sen. Robert Byrd. since. He will be recognized in the The platform will be decided
Convention speakers

dedication on the first page of the upon Thursday night, with the convention booklet. There will also The major speakers for the con­actual nomination of the be a ceremony on the opening vention will be Robert Strauss, Democratic presidential candidate night. chairman of the National coming Friday night. Saturday's 
Candidates Democratic Committee, who session will run from 12 noon to 4 will address the opening session on p.m. and will be used to choose a The convention will run from March 3. Donald Riegle, con­vice-presidential candidate. March 3-6 and will act as a prelude gressman from Michigan and 
Frieden said the Saturday

to the Notre Dame-St.Mary's candidate for the senatorial seat session will be followed by a danceBicentennial week, March 7-13. being vacated by Philip Hart, Saturday night sponsored by theVince Moschella and Nancy will give the keynote address on Bicentennial committee. It will
Brenner, co-chairpersons for the Thursday night. 
have a theme modeled on the

event, held an executive com­
John Brademas, congressman Inaugural ball.

mittee meeting last night. 
for the South Bend area, will speak at the closing session on Saturday All of the convention sessions are 
afternoon. There is a possibility open to the general public,although 
Soviet, Cuban troops gaining in 
that Sen. Philip Hart of Michigan only delegates and authorized will also address the convention. personnel will be allowed on the floor of the convention, Frieden
Also speakin~ on the opening


Angolan crisis; seize key ports 
stated.

night will be Fr. Theodore 
JOHANNESBURG, South Af-edly was led by about 7,000 Cu-but the reports suggest the Hesburgh, president of the Therewill be two public hearings rica ( AP > -Soviet-backed ban combat troops and used ships may be sent to reinforce University, and Peter Nemeth, on platform issues held in thenear forces, led by Cuban troops, tanks, helicopter gunships and other Russian naval vessels al­mayor of South Bend. Fr. Robert future on the topics of the Equalhave scored major military vic­concentratad rocket attacks to ready off West Africa. Griffin, University chaplain,will Rights Ammendment and Abor­tories in northern Angola, rais­seize the cities. The conservative London give the invocation at the opening tion. There were three previousing fears of direct intervention U.S. Secretary of State Henry Daily Telegraph reported from session. 'learings on gun control, busingby neighboring Zaire, reports A. Kissinger said Wednesday the Angolan capital of Luanda Invocations will be given another and the riminalization of reaching Johannesburg said the Cuban forces were trying to that the only town held by the sessions Fr. Cour Thursday. take over all of Angola and FNLA in northeast Angola is 
In another development, said fighting in northern Angola Santo Antonio and it now ap­South African officials at Wal­"is being conducted almost en-pears threatened. vis Bay in South-West Africa tirely by Cuban forces without Angola's richest offshore oil have refused to let 23 ships car­even the pretense of participa-fields are located off Santo An­rying an estimated 2,500 Ango­lion" by the MLPA. tonio, south of the oil-rich Cabi­lan refugees unload their hu­Meanwhile, U.S. intelligence nda enclave. The MPLA-con­man cargo nd ordered the ships sources in Washington said the trolled enclave is separated to return to Angola. The ship Soviet Union may be preparing from Angola by a 20-mile sliver captains have refused to budge. a further buildup of its naval of Zaire. 
The London Financial Times strength off the West African Reports have said much of and the Yugoslav news agency coast within cruising distance the FNLA's war supplies have Tanjug both reported that of Angola. been channelled recently from forces of the Soviet-backed The sources said U.S. in-Zaire across the Congo River Popular Front for the Liber­telligence has been tracking a into Santo Antonio, and the Na· ation of Angola -MPLA -Soviet cruiser, which has tiona) Front is expected to have seized the key Angolan moved through the western wage a bloody battle to hold port of Ambriz, its airfield and Mediterranean toward Gibral-the town. the nearby city of Ambrizette. tar in recent days, and a Soviet MPLA clashes with forces of 
The Western-backed National guided missile destroyer, which another Western-backed group, Front for the Liberation of An­has been spotted south of Por· the National Union for the To­gola -FNLA -has main­tugal. tal Liberation of Angola tained its military headquarters Intelligence reports reachin@ UNITA -were also reported at Ambriz. the Pentagon said the destina~ Thursday in four areas of 
The MPLA offensive report-lion of the ships is uncertain, 1 southern Angola. 

The typically frigid month of January in Indiana has driven everyone into their heavy clothing. Fear not--following a brief but lovely Spring, we shall be wooed by a hot and humid Indiana summer. (Photo by Mark Muench) 

played on the tattered Polylurf carpet at the qrange Bowl. 
The Miami City Council voted this week to mstall a new surface next season with a substance called grass. 
F=====================Local 
Racegetting hot 
FORT WAYNE--The race for U.S. Senate warmed up yesterdaywhen former Governor Edgar D. Whitco!'Tlb called De!llocrat!c 
Senator Vance Hartke a disaster and said former Indianapolis mayor Richard Lugar can't win. 
"Vance Hartke is a disaster. He'll do anything he can to get votes. He caters to special interest gr!>l;lPS .~nd l}e spends !llo.ney.
He has no regard for fiscal responsibility, Whitcomb said m an interview. 
---OnCampus Today-.. 
"sports, travel and boat
friday, january 16 show" ace fieldhouse,
12-10 pm --sports exhibition, 
$2, adults, $, children.
"first annual michiana sports, travel and boat 
10 pm-1 am --nan, "arne brav"
show", ace fieldhouse, 
Iafortune basement,
$2 adults, $1 children. 
$.50. 

sunday, january 18 of lens spaces and ap. 12-8 pm --sports exhibition, plications" by prof. "sports. travel and boat larry smith, indiana show", ace fieldhouse, univ., 226 comuting $2 adults, $1 children. center. ' 2 pm --recital, "young 7,9,11 pm --film, "bonnie and people's concert" clyde", engineering featuring children of ND aud. $1. faculty and staff, library aud. 8 pm .-world travel series, "iceland--what's in a --lecture, "the essence 
4:30 pm --colloquium, "framings 
3:30 pm name?" by jay gierkey, of the truely liberated o'laughlin aud., $2. woman" by pat goltz, international president 10 pm-1 am --nan, "arne brav" of feminists for life, st. Iafortune basement, mary's clubhouse. 
$.50. saturday, january 17 7 pm 
--meeting, "world hunger coalition", lib. 
10 am-10 pm --sports exhibition, 
aud., public invited. 
: VALERIE'S RESTAURANT : 
• 801 S. MICHIGAN. SO. BEND • 
• (NEXT TO GilBERTS) 289-0681 • 
• Just a few blocks south of River Bend Plaza. • 
: OPEN 5 am to 9 pm BREA~:.::~~~RVED : : Mon thru Sat : • II am to 7 pm Sunday • 
:-!TALIAN SPECIALTIES : ,: 
:sPAGHETTI : 
• S;~un• l.ti5 !\kat Sauce 1.80 Meat Balls 1.90 • 
•MOSTACIOLLI • 
• S;~uce t.ti5 l\1eat Sauce 1.80 Meat Balls 1.90 • :LASAGNA 2.35 RAVIOLI 1.75 • 
e 'I lllllll'rs ine. Italian bread & salad and soup) •~ !PASTA FAGIOLI 11talian bean soupl .45 &.65 : ,ITALIAN SAUSAGE SANDWICH 1.1~ •MEAT BALL SANDWICH 1.00 • 
• USE OUR LIGHTED PARKING LOT • 
~DOORS NORTH ON MICHIGAN ST! 
• CARRY OUT ORDERS WELCOME •
:-A QUALITY RESTAURANT OPERATED BY •• 


purposes." ----­
1------------------------------------·__.______--.J 
Friday, January 16, 1976 the observer 3 

Grocery store to close on the ~7th 

.by Mo Flynn Sentor Staff Reporter 

The A&P grocery store at the corner of Howard and Eddy streets will close Jan. 17, 1976 for economic reasons, according to a representative of the Atlantic and Pacific Tea Co. 
Peter Koukas, president of the company's Midwestern District, told a group of South Bend citizens that presnt stoe sales are $30,000 per week and that the amount is 
insufficient to provide profits for A&P. Koukas added that stock shrinkage through pilferage is not the reason for closing the store. 
Koukas was consulted by members of the Grocery Store Task Force, organized by the Common Council of the City of South Bend. According to Council President Roger 0. Parent, the Task Force will work to have another grocery store operating at the Howard Street location no later than June 30, 1976. 
The grocery store provides a "vital service" to the people who live in the Northeast area, Parent said, and is a jamor strength in maintaining the neigh­borhood. Many Notre Dame students and faculty members are residents of the area. 
The Task Force has outlined the 
Wave paranoia strikes Aussies 
ADELAIDE, Australia (APJ 
South Australian workers are poised to desert their facto­ries and the state premier has appealed for calm following a part-timeclairvoyant's "mental flash" that an earthquake and tidal wave will hit Adelaide on Monday. 
"It appears a degree of hys­teria has been whipped up about some nonsensical prophe­cy that there will be an earth­quake and tidal wave on Mon­day," Premier Don Dunstan said in a radio broadcast sought by community leaders who feared a down under ver­sion of California's San An­dreas fault scares. 
"There is no basis for it at all," Dunstan said, adding that he will stand on a jetty at Gle­nelg Beach near Adelaide on Monday morning to show he has no fear of a tidal wave. 
Adelaide seismologist D. J. Sutton termed the prediction "poppycock." Adelaide suffers about 50 earth tremors every year but most are too weak for people to feel. 
Maj. Gen. Alan Stretton, chief of Australia's natural dis­aster organization, also is un­perturbed. He plans to be in Adelaide on Monday to address a Rotary Club meeting. 
But many residents are still planning to leave the state cap­ital of 800,000 or at least stay at home with their families on the supposed doomsday. 
Dunstan predicted such high absenteeism from work would force many businesses to close. 
Clairvoyant John Nash, a house painter by trade, said Nov. 3 that the vision came to him while he was gardening. He said he saw in his mind's eye a newspaper front page re­porting the disaster, complete with Monday's date. 
Nash has since fled 1,500 miles to western Australia "to a void the disaster." 
His prediction was first picked up by a chatty news­paper column and has gained more publicity ever since. 
Darby's Place 
Darby O'Gill announces the re­opening of Darby's Place, at its regular hours this Sunday from 12:00a.m. to 4:00a.m. O'Gill's, the clean, well-lit place for the Notre Dame night folk, returns to its regular schedule, open from midnight to four Sunday through Thursday nights. All are welcome. 
important points of its campaign to establish another grocery at the present &P location. 
--To bring together all available 
information about the present A&P operations at the Howard Street location, including financial history and professional assessment of the physical plant. --Assist any seriously interested indicidual or group to secure needed financing. --Keep the neighborhood informed about any developments and secure its active support of any 

ND!SMC-South Bend set for bicentennial festivity 
by Chris Hopkins 
"An Almost Chosen People" is the theme for the national bicentennial festival to be hosted by Notre Dame, , St. Mary's and the South Bend community. This bicentennial event will take place during the week of Mar. 7-11 and the activities will be held in the Center for Continuing Education, O'Laughlin Auditorium and Morris Civic Auditorium. 
On Sunday, Mar. 7, from 7-10 
p.m. the keynote address, "200 Years Later: Where Should America Go," will be delivered to open the ceremonies. Following this will be a Patriotic Concert by the University Band and Orchestra along with St. Mary's and Notre Dame Choral Groups. 
The Monday activities will begin with a two and one-half hour address entitled "Understanding the American Revolution." From 2-4 p.m. a talk will be given on the "Declaration of Independence: Its Promise and Problems." Monday evening activities will include "A 
Court rules 
new store operator.Members of the Task Force include representatives of AC­TI.ON, Inc., the South Bend-

Mtshawaka Chamber of Com· merce, St. Joseph County U~ba~ League, the ~ortheast Netgh b?rhood Counctl and REAL se.r. vtces. ~he Task Fore~ wtll· enentually mclude at.least ftfteeen members, P.arent satd. . Koukas satd he w?uld co?perate m every way posstble wtth any 
individual group  who  wishes  to  
take  over  the  Howard  Street  
facility.  

Moore sentenced to life 
Tribute to American Music" by the South Bend Symphony and Or­chestra and Symphonic Choir at the Morris Civic Auditorium. 
Among Tuesday's activities there will be two addresses, "Is America in any Sense Chosen?" and "The Religious Dimension of American Aspirations." There will also be a Liturgy at Sacred Heart and a Williamsburg Dinner at St. Mary's. A theatrical per­formance will be given at O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Two addresses will be given on Wednesday, "Moral Aspirations In American Literature" and "Science Technology and American Goals.'' Other activities include a St. Mary's and Notre Dame poetry reading, Choral Group from South Bend Public Schools and a Notre Dame-st. Mary's Instrumental Ensemble. 
The final activity on Thursday will be a morning address, "American Aspirations and World Community." 
A discussion period will be held each day for the pros and cons of the addresses. 

on shooting: 
SAN FRANCISCO (APJ Sara Jane Moore, onetime FBI informant with radical con­nections, today became the sec­ond woman in a month to be sentenced to life in prison for attempting to kill President Ford. 
Before she was sentenced by 
U.S. Disrict Court Judge Sam­uel Conti, Miss Moore read a lengthy statement detailing her political beliefs and what she said led her to fire a shot at President Ford on Sept. 22. 
She said she was not sorry for trying to shoot the Presi­dent, except that she "accom­plished little than to throw away the rest of my life .. . I tried because it expressed my feelings at the time and could have triggered the kind of chaos to bring the upheaval of needed change." 
She described how she had become involved with the peace movement, the Black Panther party and other activist groups that forced her "to face the 

raw  reality of the  things  I had  
spoken  of  before."  
She  said  her  involvement  

with these groups helped her to become sympathetic to "those who found their only recourse in violence." 
After the sentencing, there was a loud cry of protest from Joyce Halvorsen, a friend who had previously rented the apartment Miss Moore lived in at the time of the shooting. 

The matronly divorcee read her statement in a clear voice, facing the judge in the same slacks, blouse and vest she had worn in other court appear­ances. Judge Conti leaned his chin on his hand as he listened to her. 
Butz blasts farm favoritism claims cooperatives aided 
WASHINGTON  (APJ  -Agri­ 
culture  Secretary  Earl  L. Butz  
told  leaders  of  the  nation's  

farm cooperatives Thursday that some of their members have abused their legal advan­tages and been "aided and abetted by the Department of Agriculture." 
"This has not been done for good marketing but for mo­nopolistic price enhance­ment ... I'm firmly convinced we have done that," Butz said at the final session of the Na­tional Council of Farmer Coop­erative's annual meeting. 
The secretary was not specif­ic about the abuses he alleged except to say they involved marketing orders. He did refer to one unidentified "ruthless dairy cooperative" that grew by "cannibalism" which "re­flects on all of us." 
Butz previously has singled out some cooperatives for criti­cism. He told a Harvard Uni­versity audience last fall that grain marketing in some areas of South Dakota was dominated by cooperatives. 
Butz said cooperative abuses "turn consumers off on us. Let's not kid ourselves, they're the majority." 
He said the only way farm cooperatives will survive in­freasing attacks from several government agencies and out­side groups "is by living right and gettinl'! credit for it." 
"I believe in co-ops ... on the other hand, I believe in com­petition. We must avoid even the appearance of evil," Butz said. 
. ~~ 

1'I 'l , 
' 


uJ NO
I 
f-
SMC 
THE AT R E Sun., Jan 18 at 1 :30P.M. and Mon., Jan 19 at 7:30 P.M. (callbacks -Tues., Jan 20 at 7:30 P.M.) O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM OPEN TO ALL ND/SMC STUDENTS 
SUNDAY MASSES  (Main Church)  
5: 15 p.m. Sat.  Rev. Robert Griffin, CSC  
9:30 a.m. Sun  Rev. Tom McNally, CSC  
10:45 a.m. SWl.  Rev. Patrick J. Sullivan, CSC  
12:15 p.m. SWl.  Rev. Bill Toohey, CS C  

Evensong will resume on January 18, this Sunday, at 4:30. 
DYLAN HAS ARRIVED! 
CELEBRATE THE NEW SEMESTER WITH THE NEW BOB DYLAN ALBUM "DESIRE" HIS LATEST AND GREATEST 
AND CHECK OUT OUR NEW SELECTION OF CLASSICAL MUSIC 
WE JUST RECEIVED A SHIPMENT OF 120 CLASSICAL RECORDS FROM BOULEZ TO MOZART ... BEETHOVEN TO RAVEL TO BERNSTEIN. • 
RECORDS 
255-0266 919 B COLLEGE SQUARE 
(Across from Town and Country) 
.. . . . ' 

-------------------------------------------------~ 

~ 4 
the observer Friday, January 16, 1976
' 
l r 


~ Solemn Gregory leads Louisville marchers 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. <AP) -Thursday morning for a back "America's got a lot of hang­check into a Boston hospital award by the Southern Chris­Led by an unsmiling Dick problem, according to the Rev. ups, but the big hangup isn't this week to be treated for his tian Leadership Conference at 
Charles Kirby, president of the busing, it's the niggers on the
Gregory, an estimated 1,000 to back trouble. a dinner Thursday night. Mrs.. 1,500 persons marched through Kentucky Southern Christian bus," Gregory told the group. Others participating in the Stovall, the state's first woman 
downtown Louisville Thursday Leadership Conference. "We didn't ask to be bused. We march and rally included Ber­lieutenant governor, was being to celebrate the birthday of the At a rally at the Jefferson only asked for equal education. nard Lee, of Atlanta, Ga., ex­honored for her work in worn· late Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. ecutive vice-president of the en's rights. SCLC' officials said.
County Courthouse, Gregory "I'm sick and tired of living SCLC, and the Rev. CharlesThe marchers were spirited, spoke to the crowd, blasting in a nation that teaches one Kirby, president of the KSCLC.
shouting and singing, "We Shall American leaders for hypocri­thing and does another," he 
WANTED: Overcome" and other protest sy. He spoke briefly on court­said. "I would say to white Louisville Mayor Harvey I. songs, but the march was ordered busing for school de­America in this bicentennial Sloane proclaimed Thursday 
BASS peaceful, and there were no in­segregation, a subject that has year, 'Be honest with us. If you Human Relations Day in honor cidents reported. caused unrest in Jefferson don't want to be fair with us, at of the 47th anniversary of 
PLAYERS 

County since a desegregation least be honest.' King's birth. The KentuckyGregory, who joined the plan went into effect last Sep­General Assembly also took the 
NDJAZZBANDS
"If white America was
march late, had been treated tember. day off to honor King.
treated for three days the way black Americans have been Kentucky Lt.Gov. Thelma 
Contact

States now spend money treated for 200 years, they'd Stovall was to be presented 
tear this country down," Grego­with the Martin Luther King 
ry said. "In 200 years we've Jr. "Woman of the Year" IFr. Wiskirchen 7136
intended for future use 
come a long way. We just want 
America to know in its bicen­
WASHINGTON (AP) entire $28 million capital outlay 
tennial year that black people
Faced with "an increasingly planned for the current fiscal Ir-------------------------,
are not its problem. You've
bleak fiscal future," states are year was frozen, with $10 mil­RADIATOR ~ 
been our problem."

delaying capital expenditures lion reserved for Medicaid pay­and meeting current financial ments and the rest going into Gregory said after his 30-min­I Repairinc; I 
obligations with money ear­the general revenue fund for ute speech that he plans to 
I I 

marked for future growth, a the coming fiscal year. 
survey of the states' financial positions reported Thursday. 
The survey of the financial health of 37 states found that capital outlays increased 31 per cent from 1974 to 1975 but that they are expected to drop 14 per cent from 1975 to the end of this year. 
"Virtually every state is doing it," said Joseph Rhodes, deputy director of the Ameri­can Association of State High­way and Transportation Offi­cials, when asked how many states were forced to use mon­ey earmarked for capital ex­penditures on current oper­ations. 
"The states have a choice when they foresee a deficit," said Pricilla Schwab, a staff member of the National Gover­nors Conference, which spon­sored the survey. "They can put off capital expenditures or go to the bond market and bor­row money against the future." 
Using proceeds from bond sales to meet current needs can be risky, bringing about such problems as those facing New York City, said James Martin, deputy director of the confer­ence. 
He said the survey did not turn up evidence that states were doing this and it found "none of the ingredients of a default." 
What New York City did was to transfer day-to-day expenses into the operating budget. This put the city in the position of paying for operating costs by floating bonds and led to the hidden budget deficit that even­tually cost the city its credit rating. 
Martin said an earlier study performed for the governors' conference last autumn found . that the states were combining several tactics to deal with eco­nomic problems. 
He said 22 states had reduced services below their budgeted levels, 23 had cut the number of existing state jobs or had frozen their hiring, and 25 had delayed capital expenditures. 
The current study found that the surpluses the states had built up in previous years have disappeared and that despite belt-tightening measures, gov­ernors and legislatures must in­crease taxes, cut spending, or do both to keep their budgets balanced. 
The study found that ex­penditures in the 37 states sur­veyed are expected to reach $71 billion during the current fiscal year while revenue will total only $67.7 billion. 
"This appears to indicate that the effects of the recession more than offset the revenue growth attributable to in­flation," the report said. 
In Atlanta, Dwayne Riner, a spokesman for Georgia Gov. Ceorge Busbee, said Georgia's 
1 Mile North of NOTRE DAME on U.S. 31 North Just South of NORTH VILLAGE MALL • (219) 277-1522 "LUCKY LADY" is as charming and NOW--CRITICS RAVE! happy-go-lucky as 'The sting'.· rnomnr•n•ilan Mag. GENE LIZA------~BURT ~ 
HALUcKYiAIWI;:I'~~ 
AT 7 : 00 9: 20 .. SAT. AT 2: 00 4 : 20 7 : 00 9: 30 .. SUN. AT 1 : 45 4: 00 6: 40 9: 10 
/, I I~ I olf 
.... ,. .. ''" ~
"A JOY!"
HAROLD 
and 

RUTH GORDON 
-PG­
BUDCORT
MAUDE 

SPECIAL REDUCED PRICE! 

Were looking for certain majors to become Lieutenants. 
Mechanical and civil engineering offering full scholarships. All offering majors ... aerospace and aeronautical $100 a month allowance during the last engineering majors ... majors in elec­two years of the program. Flying oppor­tronics ... computer science ... mathe­tunities. And all leading to an Air Force matics. officer's commission, plus advanced 
The Air Force needs people ... many education. with the above academic majors. And If you'd like to cash in on these Air AFROTC has several different pro­Force benefits, start by looking into the grams where you can fit ... 4-year, Air Force ROTC. 3-year, or 2-year programs. Some 
CONTACT: CAPT. M. L. STOCKDALE 
ASST. PROF. OF AEROSPACE 
STUDIES 283-6635 
Put it all together in Air Force ROTC. 
I MWE CAN HANDLE THE TOUGH ONES" I I SINCE 1922 I I I I I I I I I I I 
I -1 
I I 
II II 
.CLEANING • RECORING 
I • G A.S TANK REP AIRING I "TOUGH GUY" I
Weldinq . Heaters

II I
Fleet Trc;ck Contracts Welcome 
I I
SAME DAY SERVICE 

I I 
I 1136 MISHAWAKA I I I I"JF YOU HAVE A ROUGH TRIP AHEAD I I OF YOU, CHECK OUT THE I I 'TOUGH GUYS'." I 
~-------------------------J 
~F~r·~·d~ay~·~J~a~n~ua~r~y~1~6~·~19~76~------~t~h~e~o~b~s~e~r~v~e~r_____ 5 

Would lower Indiana's legal drinking age 

Conflicting reports surround bill's future 
ny Harb Langhenry and 
John Shaughnessy 
Staff Reporters 

It will be passed. It won't be passed. 
Depending on who is doing the talking, the future of the bill lowering the Indiana legal drinking age to 19 is excellent or it hasn't got a chance. 
Student lobbyists say the bill can pass but an area legislator says, "No way." 
"As to where things stand right now, I really don't think the bill will be approved by the House," drinking age, he also noted one
Avery predicts passage 
"surprising" factor which leads to his contention that the bill won't pass. In Marion County <In­
of anti-child abuse bill 
INDIANAPOLIS <AP> -The sponsor of a controversial anti­child abuse bill said Thursday he's optimistic the bill will be passed by the Indiana House Human Affairs Committee. 
Rep. Dennis T. Avery, D­Evansville, said he expects the bill to be out of committee and on to the floor by next Tuesday. 
On Wednesday night, about 300 persons gathered in the House chambers for a public hearing on the bill, and about three-fourths of the audience displayed opposition to the measure in a show-of-hands vote. 
The bill is designed to protect children from physical, sexual and institutional abuse. 
Most of the measure's oppo­nents come from church-related schools. And fundamentalist 
Notre Dame has accepted $706,276 in awards for the month of December to support individual faculty research projects, facilities and equipment and in­novative educational programs, according to Dr. Robert E. Gor­don, Notre Dame vice president for advanced studies. 
Awards for research totaled $627,800 and included: $300,000 from the Energy Research and Development Administration (ERDA) for study of the effects of radiation on matter by the Hadiation Laboratory, $225,000 from the Ford Foundation for study of the implications of military law violations during the 
Vietnam era directed by Lawrence 
M. Baskir, former general counsel and staff director of the Presidential Clemency Board,and Dr. Donald Kommers, director of the Notre Dame Center for Civil Rights, $53,800 from the National Science Foundation for study of the :State Senator Robert Kovach At the present time, Jones stated. estimated there are 36 members 
Kovach made his statement who support a 19-year-old legal age after conferring with Represen­while 30 have announced their tative Stanley Jones <D­opposition to the proposal. These 
Lafayette >, one of the co-sponsors figures leave 34 legislators un­of the bill, HR1104. committed on the issue. The Jones informed Kovach that he support of 15 more House members 
would not ask the Speaker of the would be neeced for the bill's 
House to call a vote on the bill until passage.he was able to determine the Accordng to Kovach, it isn't position of more House members likely that the necessary votes will 
on a lower drinking age. Ac­be obtained. He cited several cording to Kovach, this means a reasons. vote on the bill won't come until While re-emphasizing the strong next week. influence of a conservative in the state opposed to lowering the 
dianapolis area), little support has Baptist ministers have voiced been shown for the bill. According fears the measure will prevent to Kovach, this is unusual since the parents from disciplining their county is considered one of the children for fear of legal action more liberal counties in the state. against them. Another factor which might hurt 
However Indiana University the bill's chance for success is the forensic psychologist David lack of a Republican sponsor the Walters, who said he has han­bill in the House. Presently, Jones dled more than 3,000 cases of and Marilyn Schultz, both child abuse, said the bill is Democrats, are sponsoring the needed to prevent disturbed bill. Kovach has suggested to parents from mistreating chil­Jones to find a Republican spon­dren. sor. 
"The bill does not seek to Dexpite the lack of a Republican break down the family struc­sponsor, however, Kovach con­ture," Rep. Avery said. "Rath­tends the legislators are not er, it will strengthen it. following a "party line." The 
"The bill does not interfere representatives, he said, are with freedom of religion, but it merely voting according to their reaffirms that freedom with constituencies. specific language. It assures Asked if the Senate would pass parents the right of discipline the bill if the House approved it, while guaranteeing the child a Kovach replied, "I'm not op­far greater right to life." timistic. In fact, from my ob-
ND faculty receives $700,000 in grants during month of December last year 

glycoproteins by Dr. Roger K. Engineers for a pre-engineering Bretthauer, associate professor of program for minority students chemistry, $24,000 from the directed by Dr. Jerry J. Marley, American Chemical Society for associate professor of civil study of heterogeneous catalytic engineering, and $5,000 from the sintering by D. James J. Carberry, Small Business Administration for professor of chemical engineering, a small business institute directed and Dr. George C. Kuczynski, by Dr. Francis A. Yeandel, professor of metallurgical assistant dean, College of Business engineering, and $15,000from Lilly Administration, and assistant Endowment, Inc. and $10,000 from professor of management. an anonymous donor for a sym­NotreDamealso received a grant posim on evangelization in the of $23,000 from ERDA for facilities American context coordinated by and equipment for the Radiation Rev. David Burrell, C.S.C., Laboratory. 
chairman of the Department of Theology and associate professor 
·-------------~ 

of philosophy. Awards for educational 
ATTENTION ALL HALL 
synthesis of yeast cell wall American Society of Civil
,.•...........................
~ 
: Applications are being : 
• 
•
: accepted for position of •
•
• 
•
•
•
• Observer : : News Editor : 
: Apply in person : 
programs totaled $55,476 and in· eluded: $32,026 from Lilly En­dowment, Inc. for practice-based education for ministry directed by Evelyn Eaton Whitehead, assistant professor of theology, and Dr. James D. Whitehead, adjunct assistant professor of theology, $18,450 from the 
servations, the mood of the Senate noted. is very negative." Darlene Palma, one of the 
Kovach added that many lobbyists, stated that she hopes to senators seem to be actually talk to the representatives on the ignoring the bill until tey find out aspect of responsible drinking. what the House will do. She is planning to show and explain 
According to Tom Black, head of posters and information she ob­a student lobby group, the group tained from the National Alcohol will try to convince the undecided Clearing House in Washington, representatives to supportthe bill. D.C., which held a conference at Student Body President Ed Byrne, Notre Dame in November. She a member of this lobby, said they believes that education about will speak to the uncommitted responsible drinking is necessary legislators individually the mor-"to help people to form responsible ning before Congress goes into drinking habits." session. Black is "skeptically optimistic" 
Hyrne said the student lobbyists and sid "the votes in the House are will be armed with this knowledge there if we go out and get them. and will also be able to present And, it is going to take a lot of their personal feelings as well. "It work." He added that the students will give the legislators a chance to might surprise everyone and also 
neet students who are sincere," he get it passed in the Senate. 
I .---SPECIAL----SPECIAL----I
~-------------------------~ 
I I 
I * vALENTINE SPECIAL * I
I WITH THIS COUPON I 
I NOWTHRU FEB.l4 I RECEIVE: I 
REDKEN PROTEIN CONDITIONER $1.50 I 
I 
, HAIRCUT, AND BLOW DRY I I
SHAMPOO $8.50 
I TOTAL VALUE $10.00 I 
I 
NOW ONLY $6.50 I ALSO ~ 
20% OFF ANY PERMANENTI 
WE CARRY A COMPLETE LINE OF I I REDKEN PRODUCTS. 
I 
I
OPEN 6 DAYS A WEEK, INCLUDING 
I I
THURS. & FRIDAY EVENINGS 
I 
I 
~VIVIAN's I I '11.\IH JH·:SH:N STl'IHO I 
II 
203 N. MICHIGAN I Ph. 232-2194 1 
I I 
I ---COUPON----COUPON---I 

MARDI GRAS RAFFLE CHAIRPEOPLE: 
PLEASE CONTACT 
PEGGY FORAN, 7813, ABOUT DELIVERY OF RAFFLE TICKETS. 
TICKETS AND LISTS MUST
: at The Observer office :
• d •
• thir floor of LaFortune •
• • BE RETURNED BY 
: Deadline: 5 p.m. TODAY : 
THURSDAY, JAN. 22. 
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

~ ~-------------:-----­
DOONESBURY bv Garry Trudeau 


*~J~~~~~rver 
Founded November 3, 1966 

The Observer is published by the students of the University EDITORIAL BOARD of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported AI Rutherford Managing Editor as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent Jim Eder Executive Editor the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor mentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, Ken Girouard News Editor cartoons and regular. columns express the views of their Bob Mader Campus Editor authors. Column space is available to all members of the Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor community, and leHers are encouraged to promote the free Ken Bradford Copy Editor expression of varying opinions on campus. Val Zurblis Wire Editor 
Tom O'Neil Features Editor 
Chris Smith Photo EditorBusiness Manager Tom Modglin Dan Sanchez Senior Night EditorAdvertising Manager Tom Whelan 
Friday, January 16, 1976 




Losing Your COUL 
The SLC has a reputation as a do-nothing of late elections. It is designedly a discussion body. But currently the subcommittees of the body, not a legislature, and empowered only to committees of the Student life Council are recommend action to Father Hesburgh and the preparing to begin to write reports on the Board. Past recommendations have been reports of the subcorrunittees of COUL (Com­shunted off to other corrunittees or simply mittee on Undergraduate life) which will be ignored. Currently the COUL report, hailed considered by the Council and forwarded to the last year for its suggested improvements in Student Affairs Corrunittee of the Board of student life, is heading toward the same 'lhlstees which will consider it and possibly graveyard. forward it to the full Board and the Administra­There is a slight chance some action will tion. This may seem to be doing nothing, but come out of the SLC's eventual report--if SBP SLC members claim it may tum out to be Ed Byrne, current chief comic of the Adminis­something--if anything gets out of the commit­tration Building steps and alleged student tee report stage. leader, cuts the comedy for a while and pushes Judging from past perlonnance, this is for some real results for once. unlikely. The SLC began late this year because That, too, is unlikely. 
P. 0. Box Q 
exactness. The exception of course Honestly, I think this is an unfair was the class day between arrangement and a more just Thanksgiving and the following situation could be negotiated. weekend. Father, I also ask, what does it
Open Letter 
matter if those students who don't 
I firmly believe this out of place have pressing test or mandatoryclass day is an injustice to us as attendance in classes decide to students and Americans. First, it take off a couple of days early? 
Dear Father Hesburgh, prevents those who are within They may or may not be hurtinggeographical proximity and-or themselves, and being the caliber 
I'm glad to see that the Council financial means to be with our of student you profess us to be it was informed well enough to see families for this national holiday. seems that we could correctlythat a mid-semester break is Secondly, for those of us who will make that decision. needed. As for the first day of an have mandatory exams on this day Also, it is my experience that 
early commencement of classes, it will prevent us from unjoying those· students who can't afford two 
such as 26 August, and an ex­Thanksgiving Thursday, because breaks or whose parents can't tremely late beginning date, such whether we stay here or not we will afford two breaks will forgo one or as 8 September. have to study for the tests the both of them. · · 
I also commend the victorious following day. Do you realize how My solution, Father, is to use the 
efforts of Mr. Gassman in his drive may tests a student could be fall calendar of my freshman year for a representative view of the scheduled to take if a mandatory (1973-1974) as an annual system.student's thinking on this volatile or in less harsh words highly issue. The Council followed the recommended test date is 
Gregory G. Garcia 

plurality's wants with near-.initiated? 
'ltcanbe 
...J,
uone1'.. 
said.Ronnro 
'And lm 
the.ttnmltt''
touo . 
.' 



The Machiavelli Plan 
art buchwald 
WASHINGTON--The question of whether or not the United States should finance political parties abroad through the CIA doesn't seem to be a problem to the Administration. The only debate is about what parties should receive the money. Rumor has it that the CIA plans to give $6 million to the Christian Democrates in Italy to make sure the Communists don't get elected. But there are some people in Washington who feel that now that the cat is out of the bag, the contribution could be counterproductive. 
One of them is my friend Giulio Machiavelli who knows the political situation on Italy as well as anybody. "I think we should give money to a political party in Italy only if we're certain it will produce results." 
"You mean to the Christian Democrats?" I said. "No, I mean to the Italian Communist Party." "Have you gone mad?" I said to Machiavelli. "Why would we 
give money to the Italian Communist Party?" 

"It's very simple. If the CIA hands over the funds to the Italian Communist Party, everyone will say the Communists in Italy work for the CIA and the center parties will win the election." 
"But that's Machiavellian," I told my friend. "The American people would never stand for it." "Neither would the Italians," Machiavelli said. "Look, right now 
every political party but the Communists are tainted in Italy because It is widely believed their politicians are on the CIA payroll. The only way we can reverse this is by putting the Communists on the payroll and cutting off everyone else." 
"But you can't cut off non-Communist politicians from CIA funds," I protested. "The Right, the Center and the Non­Communist Left depend on that money for their own personal expenses. They have villas to pay off, new cars to buy, Swiss bank accounts to keep up. You can't take money out of their pockets just to defeat the Communists." 
"Ah, but that's just the point," Machiavelli said. "They won't be cut off. 'when the Soviets find out the CIA is supporting the Com­munist Party in Italy, the KGB will have no choice but to support the Christian Democrats. If we're to believe our government, the Soviets pour in a lot more money for an election in a foreign country than the Americans do and, therefore, the Christian Democrats will have more funds to salt away for themselves than when they were financed by the CIA." 
"It's an interesting proposal," I said. "But what happens if the CIA financing is so successful the Communists win in Italy?" 
"There i very little chance of that happening. In almost all cases whichever side the CIA supports in an election loses. But we must make sure that there is a great deal of publicity that the Com­munists in Italy are being financed by the Central IntelligenceAgency." 
"How would you publicize something like that?" 

"We'd get Director William Colby to brief a congressional watch­dog committee in secret session that the CIA was going to five $6 million to the Italian Communist Party. He would make them all swear that they wouldn't reveal a word of it to anyone. 
"Five minutes after the briefing was over, every newspaper bureau in Washington would know about it. The day after the story was printed the White House would deny it. As soon as the denial came out, everyone in Italy would believe it was true. 
"It's brilliant," I told Machiavelli. "But if the CIA starts sup­porting Communist parties in other countries, won't it hurt detente?" 
'It might," he replied, "but what better way to show the Soviets we mean business?" 



----~-------~------------~~~~~----------------~ 
Friday, January 16, 1976 

Letters to a Lonely 
happy birthday, tom dooley 
reverend robert griffin 
It was three o'clock last Tuesday af­the United States, together with Madame books like Bob, Son of Battle, or The Five your dinner, or not. You remember the ternoon, and I was just staggering through Nhu. Since that time, all the children have Little Peppers, and How They Grew. They eighteen year old girl who came with her the door of my room with a leashed dog been placed in American homes, and must have listened to Tom Mix on the father to speak to you after the New Year's after an eighteen hour train ride on Am­Madame Nhu makes her home with the radio, and sent away box tops to become Eve Mass. She was threatened by the trak from New York City, and I and Darby Tisdales in thei lovely home, also named Ralston Straight Shooters. They must Mafia, she siad, for a theft she had been and his leash and our luggage were An Loc. have heard the news in 1933 that Roosevelt guilty of. The Mafia had threatened to kill covered with snow from that day's bliz­And so it was, last Tuesday, as the snow had closed the banks, or, in 1936, that Italy her that very evening if she did not leave zard. Immediately, the phone began to melted into puddles around me and my dog had gone to war with Ethiopia. They must town, she said. Was there some convent I ring: it was Betty Tisdale from Columbus, and his leash and our luggage, I sat talking have worn corduroy knickers that swished knew of where she could be hidden away Georgia, reminding me that Saturday, by phone to Patrick and Betty Tisdale, when they walked, and bought Mary Jane from death? You thought to yourself: how January 17, was Dr. Tom Dooley's forty­knowing that I wanted to celebrate Tom candies for a penny, and Charleston Chews tough it must be to be a father in a jungle 
ninth birthday, and that Sunday, January .Dooley's anniversary on Saturday; for a nickle. They must have exploded where there are no hiding places. You 18, was the fifteenth anniversary of Tom wondering if, perhaps, one could get an torpedoes and ground red devil fire remember a meeting arranged by the Dooley's death. enormous birthday cake and serve slices crackers under their heels on the Fourth of social worker with some nurses from St. of it at the Grotto to all who came to read July, and read Big, Little Books featuring Vincent's hospital who wanted to establish
There was going to be a great the Dooley letter about the beauty of a Flash Gordon and Chandu the Magician. a mobile clinic for the people of the streets.
celebration in New York for Tom Dooley's place where the lights flicker among the· They must have gone around the neigh­None of the street people would bother tobirthday, Betty Tisdale said; and Penn­winter snows, as though faith itself were a borhood singing: "The Indians threw take care of their health, and few of themsylvania was declaring Saturday to be celebration needing candles like a bir­rocks at Columbus -'Cause he sang a song would come to the clinic. Those nursesTom Dooley Day. Tom Dooley's friends in thday. To tell the truth, after eighteen that didn't swir.g." They must have wept asked you the questions of how and why, asNew York were meeting to discuss plans hours on Amtrak, you need to celebrate at the sight in the newspaper of the empty though you could give them the anser.
for building a Dooley Hospital, Betty Said; somebody's birthday. After eighteen wheel chair at FOR's funderal. On last Monday evening at the dinnerthose friends are also promoting the cause hours in a compartment about the size of a Out of all the trivia and nonsense and hour, when the city is liveliest, you left the of Tom Dooley's canonization. She and her second bathroom in a very cheap house, drama of an American childhood like your city with your mind full of images of love 
husband, Dr. Patrick Tisdale, were 
you need a special kind of holiday. After own, they grew up to have a passionate and death at each other's throat. Youplanning to attend the New York and the dark streets of New York, whose winter caring for people, and they had the energy come lame back to a campus that seems aPennsylvania celebrations. "Tom Dooley mood is sooften rain, you need something and the grace and courage and gifts that peaceful, snow-bound village; but underloved Notre Dame very much," Betty as cheerful as the freshly falling snow. dared them to face the suffering, and try to the shouts and laughter of theTisdale said. She wondered if Notre Dame Tuesday's homecoming was as full of mend it. When they died young, they left homecoming, you could hear the news thatwas observing Dr. Dooley's birthday, too? 
welcome as though the storm had showed you with an example to follow, and with told you that even here, all the victories do I am not a human being who is much 
up at the station to greet me as a long-lost the challenge of needing to try harder, like not belong to love.
given to the promotion of causes; I am too friend. Then, coming through the storm soldiers closing the ranks after their Yet there were phonecalls from Georgiaundisciplined, too maverick, to lazy to be a into my room, looking like an Alp escaping prince has fallen on the field. that told of a faith that celebrates thepromoter of causes. But if there is one from a skier's holiday, I settled into a melt Tom Dolley and Robert Ken­anniversaires of death as well as the birth·name that melts the resistance inside me 
at a voice on the telephone, and my pup nedy ... contemporaries whom I love as days.
as though I were made of ice cubes, it is melted beside me. Both of us were com­heroes. It is comfortable to have heroes Tom Dooley is as important to us now asthe name of Tom Dooley, and a second forted like the prodigal sons reminded of who belong to your own generation. By he ever was as a missionary doctor inname is that of Dooley's devoted desciple, ghe heritage of decency and love that God, you think to yourself: it is not the Vietnam. That is the message BettyBetty Tisdale. Betty was a secretary in awaits them in their Father's house. age of the anti-hero. There are giants who Tisdale was giving me over the phone.
New York who heard about Dooley, and Saturday, January 17, then, is the bir­have walked the earth who are neither my That is the implication of the efforts ofwent to see him when he was ill with thday of Tom Dooley. I suppose at Notre sons nor my fathers; we could have been in Tom D()(Jiey's friends to have himcancer. After his death, she went to Dame, the calendar is filled withthe bir­high school together. It is not necessary to canonized, and I am not even talking of theSoutheast Asia to find out how she could thday events of men and women who have make them saints. It does not seem eternal hopes that canonications cause.
help continue the projects Dooley had touched our lives with their greatness. possible, according to the newspapers, to An eighteen hour mediatation on Am­begun there. One project that especially Why, then, should I care more for Dooley's make Kennedy a saint. it is not necessary trak can leave you feeling pretty moody.
touched her heart was the orphanage life than for some of the rest? Among to make Tom Dooley a saint. I do not think That is why we make heroes of chaps likecalled An Loc ("Happy Place") that other reasons, I suppose, because Tom the Church has done well by her saints: Tom Dooley, who faced even grimmerDooley had co-founded with a Madame Dooley, if he had lived, would be my they become remote, stained-glass realities, inside and outside themselves,Nhu in Saigon. When I first met Betty contemporary. Robert Kennedy, if he had figures, the unreal figures on a side altar than the discouragement and self-pity weTisdale two years ago, she was raising, by lived, would have been contemporary to whom the hagiographers have reduced feel for ourselves. Tom Dooley was neverherself, twenty-five hundred •dollars a both of us. into bores. We end up losing them as defeated. One of his greatest victories aremonth to support the orphans of An Loc. 
heroes because they seem made out of some of the commitments Betty TisdaleShe was also raising a family of ten Not exact contemporaries, perhaps, but different stuff from the rest of us. I really has made in her life. But there are other,children: five of them were sons belonging close enough. They must have remem­must ask Betty Tisdale whether she wants more inward victories he won. If you don'tto the widowered Dr. Tisdale, whom Betty bered, as I remember, the first time King to risk doing that to Tom Dooley. believe me, read his letter which is per­met and married in Vietnam; five of them Kong climbed the Empire State Building manently placed in the Grotto. A good daywere Vietrfamese girls adopted through with Fay Wray in his arms. They must So you come back from the great, gray to do it would be Saturday, January 17, histhe orphanage after Betty and Dr. Tisdale, have gone to the movies on some of the city, and you remember the looks on the forty-ninth birthday; or Monday, thea U.S. army doctor, were married. Last same afternoons when I went to the movies faces of old people gathered into the parish fifteenth anniversary of his death.
year, before the fall of Saigon, with the to see Shirley Temple in The Blueburd, or hall from the streets and lonely rooms to Happy Birthday, Tom Dooley. Thankhelp of the United States army, Betty Mickey Rooney as Andy Hardy, or Snow eat their Christmas dinner, and all of them you, Betty Tisdale.
Tisdale brought the orphans of An Loc to White or Bambi. They must have read were worried whether you had eaten 
foreign notes I tu preuiew·---------------------------------------------------------------------· 
angers journal ! 
it's super bowl time
by katie kerwin I 
First impressions of France are fading where pastries are works of art. I by tom o'neil from memory now as we settle down to the 
Right now we are m the midst of what I
reality of daily routine. The "first time' Super Bowl X is this week's decendents of John Adams through ISO 
everyone told us would be the "worst.'' I
excitements arc rarer, but there is a sort of major TV attraction, an expected-to-be years begins Tuesday at 9:00 on PBS. At 
It's rained for five days straight and home
comfortable familiarity now with things firey match between the Super Bowl an overall cost of $6 million, this special
is on everyone's mind. Every letter from
that were formerly strange. defenders from Pittsburgh and the come­Bicentennial series focuses mostly upon
home and every Observer reminds us of all 
Angers is neither a picturesque fairy-tale from behind Cowboys. And despite the the courtship between Adams and Abigail
! 

village nor a booming metropolis, Ameri­can-style. Angers is a city of 150,00 people--about the same size as South Bend (and about as exiciting). It has its old sections of town, its new housing develop­ments and appartment buildings, and its factory zones. The history of Angers dates back to pre-Roman times. Anders, like so many places in Europe, blends old with new in a way that startles many American tourists. 
Surprising too, is Angers' lively down­town area, where everyone goes to do their shopping, and where open-air markets take place several times a week--a far cry from some of America's big cities with dying urban cores. 
Another shock for Domers, accustomed to the night-owl existence of students, was the discovery that in Angers everyone goes to bed by 10 p.m.--at the latest. Even on weekends, the town seems to close down after dark. At eight o'clock, they close the shutters and roll up the sidewalks. 
Outside of the Restaurant Universitaire, 
of course, French food is very good. We're 
becoming spoiled in a land where wine is 
cheaper than Coke, where there are more 
than 500 differenty kinds of c~eese, and the things that are going on without us. Christmas vacation seems too distant and June seems like a mirage that keeps getting farther away. Exams and papers are piling up. Worst of all, mail has slowed down to a trickle and neither threats nor pleas are working to get friends and family to write (so have a heart, all of you out there, will you?) 
Our only consolation is that everyone said this would happen and we've been assured that by Christmas, miraculously, things get better and the time flies by. That helps--a little. Right now, Wf:. can only hope that it's true. 
However, despite the lonliness and the frustrations, there are compensations. Traveling thus far has been good and plans for Christmas vacation give us something to look forward to. And at least we have more free time than we ever ;lad at Notre Dame, we're catching up on our sleep, and some are even taking up crocheting or knitting. 
But most of all, there's a certain satisfaction i11 being independent and in having the nerve to leave home for a whole year because you want to see more of the world. 
I 
recent and much-publicized findings of a college professor who has determined that 
there are actually only seven minutes of
I 

action to the average Super Bowl, few fans 
I 

I 
will be discouraged from watching it. To be aired at 2 p.m. on 22. President Ford will deliver his State ofI The Union Address Monday at 9:00, to be I carried live by all major networks. He is 
expected to recommend a $10 billion tax cut as well as the usual decrease in government seending. 
The 1936 World Series between the Yankees and the Giants will be the subject of "The Way It Was" on ch. 34 at 8:00 on I Thursday, hosted by Hall of Famers, Lefty I Gomez and Bill Terry. Firing Line will feature John Connolly Saturday at 9:00 on 28, and Leonard Bernstein presents a I Harvard lecture on music Sunday at 2:00 I on 34 demonstrating how simple tunes can I be transformed into complex musical I compositions.1 "Search for the Great Apes", a docu­1 mentaric look at orangutans and gorillasI (with special emphasis on the latter's newly-discovered language of 17 words),I can be seen Sunday at 5:00 on channel 34. I_. . A 13-week episode on the life and Smith beginning in 1762. 
The best of the movies on television this week is Jeremiah Johnson, 1972 adventure film starring Robert Redford (Sunday at 
9:00 on 28). It concerns the travails of a soldier-turned-trapper who confronts In­different Nature in the Rocky Mountains. Redford remains appropriately silent throughout most of this movie, (directed by Sydney Pollad), and proves adequate for such an excellent movie. It was filmed in Utah. 
The second of the big films is The Midnight Man, a suspense yarn starring Burt Lancaster (also co-authored, co-dir­ected and co-produced). Based on the novel •'The Midnight Lady and the Mourning Man' by David Anthony. It's an excellent mystery with lots of plot and a final juicy twist. It involves a Pears-like campus security guard who investigates some strange campus killings. Co-stars Susan Clark Saturday at 9:00. 
Lastly, the Walton& have their home gutted by fire this week in a two-hour special Thursday at 8:00 on 22. 



-------,-,-...-.-ore-~------­
' ' ' ,· . \'.
the obser'ver. Friday, JanuarY 16,'1976 
25 percent of faculty now favor; 50 percent interested 
Collective bargaining: a growing trend at ND? 
by Maureen Flynn three years later the question of 
process whch is confusin~ to many. members of the Notre Dame
*
Observer

Senior Staff Reporter collective bargaining at Notre 
While taking no position on the community more fully about a 
Dame is being raised with in­
issue,the Faculty Senate is at-process which is confusing to
Insight

Collective bargaining at Notre creasing frequency. 
tempting this year to inform (continued on page 11) 
Dame, 1973: "I don't think we In a tollow-up report adopted by should get involved in that sort of Senate researches issue the Faculty Senate in September thing and the whole idea is 1975, the ad hoc committee at­

i··riMM·P·AR1:Y·s·rawE:···i 
distasteful to me."--"All they want In December, 1974, the Faculty tempted to examine the case for to do is grind out more money for Senate approved and distributed to collective bargaining specifically !OPEN : MON-SAT 9am-11pmithemselves, less work, more the faculty at large the report of an at Notre Dame and to stimulate privileges, more time off."-"The ad hoc committee on collective debate on the subject. : SUNDAY 12noon 1 1 pm :university sits on sacred ground. I bargaining. The purpose of the The Senate committee report don't want it soiled by union jack­report was to describe briefly the discussed the goals attainable :• COLD BEER,WINE, LIQUOR, i boots, no matter how much unions mechanics of the collective through collective bargaining, have contributed to the quality of bargaining process, to discuss summarized previous Senate ! GORMET FOODS 
life in other areas." possible applications at private reports and the administration's :• Despite an accelerating trend universities like Notre Dame and responses and outlined the !3114S. 11 St. NILES, MICHIGAN: toward collective bargaining in to present arguments for and situation.at Notre Dame with 
: "BIGGEST LITTLE i
higher education, a majority of the against collective bargaining at reference to specific governance faculty members contacted by the Notre Dame. issues. Resumes of collectively :••••J..I9Jls:2Ji.§1.9.1Jf..IJi.Ml<;.iiJ~At\~ ••••:
Observer in January, 1973 said that A referendum conducted last bargained contracts from St. Johns they were opposed to its institution spring among Notre Dame faculty and Temple Universities were 
at Notre Dame. by the Faculty Senate revealed appended to the report. r--------------------------.I I 
Three years later the trend is that approximately 25 percent of While taking no position on the 
I I
still spreading, to the extent that those responding favored issue, the Faculty Senate is at­
I I 
an estimated 15 percent of the collective bargaining, 25 percent temptimg this year to inform 
I

American professoriate is opposed it and 50 percent wished members of the Notre Dame collectively represented. And for more information. community more fully about a I 
I 
I

St. Mary's language professor I I edits dictionaries for travelers I 
by Pat Payne series' French-English dictionary. Italian, French, Arabic and Turki­Staff Reporter Berberi and Winje authored the sh. A native Albanian, he attended Italian-English version. the Military College of Milan, 
In Italian, it's "aiuto". It's "au Berberi, also the creator of Italy. In addition, Berberi holds secours" in French, "Hilfe" in Arabic in a Nutshell, one book in a and M.A. degree and a Ph.D. in I German, "socorro" in Spanish and series published by the Institute linguistics from Indiana I for English-speaking travelers for Language Study and Funk and University and joined St. Mary's I abroad it's "Help". Wagnall, has studied Albanian, Faculty in 1967. I 
A series of travel dictionaries co­I edited by Dilaver Berberi, assistant professor of modern 
Engineering department I 
languages at St. Mary's,and his 
Hot pies FREEatMcDonald's. I
wife, Edel Winje, have recently 
I I
been released by Grosset, Dunlap names honor students 
1 One hot apple or cherry pie of your choice. It's the 1
and Cortina publishers. The books, 
11east we can do to help you take a break. Just present your 
featuring verb tables, pronun­26 students were initiated the graduating Senior Class and 
ciation guides and a menu reader, into the Notre Dame, Indiana top one-eighth of the Junior I student 1.0. and buy the Big Meal, (a Big Mac· are available in Italian-English, -Gamma Chapter of the Tau Beta Class, every department I or Quarter Pounder"*, large fries and large soft drink of French-English, German-English Pi Engineering Honor Society on within the College of Engineering, I your choice). Offer ends Feb. 29, 1976. Good only at and Spanish-English. Dec. 4, 1975. are eligible for membership. The 
Also included to assist the final decision is made on con­
The students are: Anthony ~ McDonald's,.~~:~~:~~~South Bend.
foreign traveler are numerous sideration of each individual's
Arena, Walter Bak, William
idioms and phrases ranging from integrity. breadth of interest and
Barrett, Christopher Bednar,
''Quanto costa questo?" <Italian character. These new members
Donald Byrne, Jean Dudek,
for "How much does this cost?) to join 16 students who are currently "Man hat mich bestohlen" active members.
Theresa Fritz, Michael Gassman,
<German for "I've been robbed" (. Richard Greenwell, Michael The Tau Beta Pi Association was Berberi noted that he considers Gyorog, Mary Hagan, Michael founded in 1885 and has elected 


i C:A~. 

conversation to be a very im­Hahn, Mary Heasly, Arlene over 190,000 members into 171 ac­portant part of any language and Hunter, Richard Johnson, Brian tive collegiate chapters across the 
I "We do it:IItc!'tbu" " 

for that reason has incorporated nation. many useful phrases into the Kirk, Thomas McKenna, John books. Mortimer, Robert Policastro, 
·--------------------------­
Teresa Nutting Marcy, govern-Hugh Reilly, Mary Resnik, ment lecturer at St. Mary's and Gregory Schuster,Mark Sinsky, her husband, Michel Marcy William Sturm, Kevin Warapius assistant professor of French at and Daniel Wilks. the college are co-authors of the Students in the top one-fifth of 
.• .•
-...
. .
'·' "'. 
~CAMPUS VIEW~ 
: APARTMENTS : 
: LIMITED VACANCIES : 
: CALLNOW : 
: * 272-1441 * : 
~········~····················' 


Univ. of Texas professor says 
Solar energy seen as feasible, but costly 
<A P l Due to the soaring costs of heating fuels, many are looking to solr energy to meet the nation's future needs. 
The cost of installing a solar energy unit to heat and cool a 2,000-square-foot house in Aus­tin, Tex., is about $12,500, or $11,000 more than a con­ventional system burning fossil fuels, says Dr. Gary Vliet, a University of Texas professor. 
Leonard, head of the Sandia Laboratories in Alberquerque, N.M., which has an ERDA con­tract. "But cost is the driving factor." 
A more difficult job for solar energy is generating electricity. Two methods are being devel­oped, one using collected sun heat and the other direct con­version of sunlight to power, a process called photovoltaics. 
The collected sun system energy use. There is cost, in­vestment in existing energy in­dustries, the availability of oth­er fuels, financing, building and construction standards, public acceptance, and even the legal question, "Who owns sunlight'?" 
Nevertheless, necessity may lure people to solar power, if the experience of Bridgeport, a small Texas town, is any ex­ample. 
When Bridgeport's 5,000 crease to the Texas Power & Light Co., the utility threatened to cut off the city. 
"They said they were going to pull the plug on us so we decided to go shopping for oth­er sources of power," said city councilman Jack Vandeventer. 
What they found was Solar-King Inc. The Reno, Nev., firm offered to install a 4.2-million kilowatt power pant operating on sunshine. 
plant and the city will furnish the land. It's expected to be in operation in 1978. 
The project will have no fed-era! help and Solar King presi­dent Brian Pardo calls it "a case of American ingenuity, of the common man solving a problem." 
"It's not the government pro­jection of 1990 when solar ener­gy. is going to be a reality," said Pardo. "It's a reality 

Much of this cost is in the water storage tanks holding 8,­000 to 12,000 gallons, buried and insulated, that are needed to store heat for an average home in a moderate climate for up to three consecutive cloudy, sun­less days. 
The simplest solar energy collectors, and the most com­monly used today, are called flat plate collectors. They look like sandwiches 3 to 6 feet by 8 to 10 feet, and they're made of glass, metal and insulation. A clear top layer of glass or plas­tic allows sunlight to strike a metal panel. The panel, painted black, concentrates the heat. Liquid-filled tubes or moving air carry the heat to a storage system which can be a buried tank of water or a basement full of rock. This system can achieve temperatures of up to 210 degrees even in winter. 
Such systems easily provide heat for buildings when air is pumped around the storage unit and back out into rooms. With various adapters, the flat plate collector system also heats wa­ter in homes and swimming pools, and operates absorption air conditioners. 
"We can build a storage sys­tem that would hold heat vir­tual forever " said James uses concentrators that produce people refused to pay a rate in-The company will pay for the now." 
temperatures of 1,000 degrees +.: JtfJtfJfJtfJtfJtfJtfJtfJf.ltf.ltf.ltf• •••••+•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 

Let your .fiamz·ly know :t : 
'?' 
-+: 
h t' • ~ 
W a S gozng on• -+: : -+: 
-+: 
-+: 
-+: 
Send home The Observer! -+: 
'?' 
-+: 

rlr:'or only $10 a semester : -+: 
t 
~ ~ 


rAM -+: 
~ ~

Nn E ~ 
~ ADDRESS : ~ 
~ 
-+: 
~ 
: 
-+: -+: -+: . ~ 



or more with sunlight. Such : processes use liquid to move t
the heat and drive a turbine. '?'­They usually are called "liquid ~ transfer" systems. ~ 
A concentrator invented by ~ Ronald Winston, a University of : Chicago professor, is a trough-~ shaped mirror with a black-~ coated pipe along the bottom of ~ the trough. Liquid run through -+: the pipe collects heat. -+: 
A similar system is being ;
used by a Sandia Laboratory '?'­team, headed by Leonard. In-~ stead of mirrors, the Sandia : 
team is using curved plywood, -+:
coated white, to save money. -+: An oil collects and stores the -+: heat. Leonard said the system -+: can collect up to 600 degrees of : heat, enough to power steam -+: turbines and others that gener-~ ate electricity. ~ 
Another "liquid transfer" -tc system under study has fields : of curved mirrors tracking the ~ sun across the sky and reflect-~ 
ing its heat onto a globe atop a +.: tower. Liquid circulated ~ through the globe is heated and : returned to a central power il generating station. ~ 
Despite the possibilities, ~ widespread use of solar power t is limited by the complex fac­
tors that influence the 

Mandatory Meeting for booth chairmen!! Tonite 7;00 p~~m. LaFortune -first floor lobby Bring booth plans plus $100 deposit from sponsor. 




Be There! 

.. 
. . 
o ••••• o I •••• t •• t 9 ~ 9 • I f •• -' 0 0 e I , 0 


10 the observer Friday, January 16, 1976 
Moslems'·Vs·Christians .. , ...".. ··· ... ,· 
Religious civil war continues in Lebanon 
B ALEX EFTY The fighting i~ .over Moslem uing Christian blockade . of two and. keep main highways open. alty toll as available. ~ t d p w 't demands for pohbcal and eco-other refugee camps tr1ggered F1ve armored cars of the se-Rocket and mortar fire fromAssocJa e ress n er . f d Ch . t' . th A b ld A 't f d h 11 . . . .
nof!IIC re orms an ~IS Jan an u~roar 1~ e ra wor . . cur1 Y orces ~umpe s e s m Chnstlan neighborhoods ringing 
resistance to them until the Saud1 Arab1an statement sa1d the square m1le where more Quarantina also slammed intoBEIRUT, Lebanon <APl ­government clamps down on the Lebanese crisis "entered a than 15,000 of Lebanon's poor-the area which was enveloped
Moslem-Christian fighting 
the Palestinian guerrillas. new stage of defiance of human est Moslems live in tightly-packed in thick smoke from numerousraged in Beirut and a score of 
In the latest action, Lebanese values by the siege of the refu-makeshift shacks. No casu-fires.
other points across Lebanon on 
Thursday, bringing new calls security forces shelled Beirut's gee camps" and blamed "ele-••••••..• ..•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Moslem slaughterhouse slum ments opposed to cooperation." • s·t t u Ill Ifor outside mediation to end the area to safeguard a main The government of Kuwait : /8y • 
n•
nine-month-old civil war. 
bridge link to the north. expressed dismay over "the • -• 
i 
At least 17 persons were The shelling came just a day provocative clashes initiated by • killed and 33 wounded during after Christians overran the some groups against Palestin-; a the day, bringing the over-all 
small Palestinian refugee camp ian settlements," and North • I k ~ HCh ~& ~n~ g.. ft• 
casualty toll since April to at Dbaiye, five miles north of Yemen proposed the dispa~ch : Ill [!I '),1.. "11il~ = 
more than 8,800 dead and 26,600 the slum battle. of a Pan-Arab peacekeepmg • · ·-. • wounded by official count. Dbaiye's fall and the contin-force to Lebanon. ; : 
shelling ?f th~ slum . a~ea •ouTSIDE STUDENT GOV'T OFFICE -• 
came as nght-wmg Chnstlan : : 
forces continued their push to : 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE ·:
The Super Bowl Game: 
clear the northeast of the city • STUDENT CENTER • 
of pockets of leftist Moslem and • • • Palesti~ian guerrilla :esistance : JANUARY 14 -18 :
from a different angle controlling v1tal : :
other road ~inks to the C~ristian hinterland : 1pm _ Spm :By JAY SHARBUTT pects of Super Bowl activity, in m the mountams. • •AP Television Writer the week preceding the game
NEW YORK (AP) -This and during the game. The security forces inter-• SELLERS DROP OFF YOUR USED •
vened against Moslem snipers : :Sunday, when the nation pauses Allen Rucker, who is super­
for its annual Super Bowl fix­firing from the~r "Quar.antina" : BOOKS INCLUDING YOUR :
vising the work, says six basic slum and stoppmg traff1c over • ' •ture on television, a small band areas are being inspected for the bridge of the highway next : PRICES. WEDNESDAY JANUARY ;
of young video visionaries will what will be edited to a 55-min­to the shantytown. • JA •be taping the final part of their 
ute show. The predominantly Christian : 14, or THURSDAy NUARY 15. : own show about the Super 
Bowl. Two concern how the cities of Lebanese. army is th~oreti~ally • WE'LL SELL THEM • 
Dallas and Pittsburgh, their neutral m the sectanan fight-; ;They're members of Top Val­
ue Television -TVT -an in­football players and how the ing. But special army rein-• FOR YOU AT NO COMMISSION • 
players' wives are reacting to forced security squads have in-: • :dependent production company. 
Their show, which will air in 
the game. structions to maintain order r••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• mid-March on public TV, won't cover much of the actual Pitts­burgh-Dallas joust. Nope. The TVT gang is ap­proaching Super Bowl 10 as a kind of sociological phenomena, 
1olhaeka big-money bash that mixes big business with big sport to produce a massively publicized event which this year is earn­ing the National Football 
REALISTIC® RECEIVERS ... 
League $3.5 million for tele­vision rights alone. For TVT, the event is the thing. The game is secondary. 
FOR THE MUSIC-MINDED 
Spokesmen for the TVT workers say it is being done on a budget of $55,000 -or about $175,000 less than the maximum CBS is charging per 
YOUR CHOICE 95
minute for sponsors who don't normally advertise during CBS' regular season coverage of pro football. CBS says it has more than 150 troops at the Orange Bowl in Miami to help cover the Sunday game, not to mention 18 cameras, four videotape machines, four replay machines and 60 microphones. 
TVT, by contrast has but 42 persons working on its project, broken down into seven crews that are covering various as­
fiili-ff)
~ ..,UHAWUA AVI. Af 1011!., ~ 
.. -... 
£FINAL WEEK! i 
... and you can
: MEN WANTED : 
iC Private company with 1a11e C.I.A. contract seeks iC iC men willing to risk life. Perfect physical condition. iC 
CHARGE IT
-t1 Experience with weaponry, incendiaries, Karate/ iC 
At Radio Shack
-tl Judo. No loyalties. No dependents. Constant dan· iC iC ger.lone career doubtful. iC 
.. 
..
.. .. .
.. .. 
.. iC .. iC
.. .
.. .. 
.. iC
.. . SENSATIONAL 43% DISCOUNT ON OUR MOST POPULAR AM-FM 
AM-FM 2/4-CHANNEL RECEIVER! STEREO RECEIVER AT 35% OFF!. 
...

. .. 
.. .. 
A dual performer! Our QTA-720 delivers Music lovers appreciate our STA-47 with
.. .. 
superb stereo and opens the world of such outstanding features as main/remote
.. .. 
4-channel when you add a second pair of speaker switch, tape inputs/outputs with
.. .. 
.. .. 
speakers. Exclusive Glide-Path'fl: monitor, magnetic phono input. Plus
. 

volume/balance controls. tape inputs/ 4-speaker capability, tuning meter.
.... .. 
outputs. tuning meter and much more. headphone jack. An ideal receiver at a great A terrific audio valuel Reg. 229.95 low price! Reg. 199.95
i I
t Phone 288-8488 : ·t for times I ~. 
SCOTTSDALE MALL ();;J 
Moat it~• atso av.Uble at Radio Sh~~ek De•ters.

~ Soon: • 
Look for this sill" in your neiaflborhood.

~Gone With the Wind 
• ' • • ~ ,J / J J • " J ,J J • ~ • • • • • • • • • " • " ., J • ~ ~ .. J ~ " ,J J ., .. J ~ " " 
.. • ~ .... J ' ~ J .. ~ .. ' ~ ' • • • =. 'l '; '\ •••••••• ~ ... ' 



.. :~ '. ·, ·. ......, ,.~·~ •. . .·... ~ .. Friday, January 16, 1976 the observer 1 1 
Collective bargaining evaluated 
(continued from page 8) any question ar1smg thereunder, Such contracts, the <;ommittee In the two former cases, the Faculty Senate," the report stated. many. Together with the local and the execution of a written noted, require approval of a report stated, "It is not the claim The administration has yet to chapter of the Aerican Association contract incorporating any faculty appointments and or suggestion of this report that acknowledge receipt of Senate of University Professors (AAUP), agreement reached if requested by promotions committee in all ad­unqualified persons were ap-committee reports on the ap­the Senate is sponsoring a series of either party, but such obligation ministration appointments to the pointed to the academic positions pointments and promotions fora. does not compel either party to faculty. In cases in which a tenure in question. The point," the report process, the legal implications of agree to a proposal or require the recommendation made by the stressed, "is rather that faculty religious preference in em­Industrial process in education? making of a concession." faculty committee is overturned participation in the academic ployment at Notre Dame, and a Section seven of the NLRA by the administration, the~ governance of the University was request for a faculty salary in­
The Notre Dame faculty has states, "Employees shall have the provide for appeal to a university· denied by the Trustees and the crease, the report stated. found, like many other such right to self-organization, to form, wide committee, whose decision is Administration of the University, "I think the complaints people groups, that collective bargaining join or assist labor organizations, final and binding. Persons even in cases where there were have are very real," one professor
is not a simple question to explore. to bargain collectively through selected as chairmen or deans clearly defined procedures and stated, "and I am by no means In addition to the initial un­representatives of their own must be nominated by faculty statements for such par-satisfied with the status quo. I just 
certainty about the application of choosing, and to engage in other majority or by an elected com­ticipation ...endorsed by the don't think collective bargaining is an industrial process to an concerted activities for the pur­mittee in the appropriate President of the University and the the answer." educational institution, it seems to pose of collective bargaining or academic unit, under these con­Board of Trustees." Answer or no, collective many that there are as many mutual aid or protection, and shall tracts. They also establish binding It seems unlikely that greater barg~ining is certainly a very real 
versions of collective bargaining also have the right to refrain from grievance procedures to protect involvement in governance will be questiOn and one which shall un­as there are collectively bargained any or all such activities ... " faculty members' academic achieved for the faculty through doubtedly continue to arise at contracts. freedom and tenure rights, ac­the present channels open to the Notre Dame. 
Indeed this last observation is cording to the Senate committee true to the extent that collective Sanctioned by AAUP report. bargaining relationships vary In addition, these contracts ----COUPON ---­


r------------------------­

widely in composition of the Sanctioned by law in 1970, -require that the administration 
bargaining units, issues of con­collective bargaining in higher make available to the faculty m~r Qhdouial ~­cern, specificity and legality of education received official sanc­representative detailed financial
tion from the AAUP in 1972.

agreements, as well as a number information "so that it can make of other points. Once the legal responsible proposals which may
Recognizing the involvement of a 1·'aucakt l;~ust , ~ 
number of its local chapters ,the 
definitions have been exhausted, include general salary increases, 
THIS WEEKEND:

there remain many areas of un­AAUP voted overwhelmingly at its merit increases, removal of certainty. Annual Meeting inequities, salary minima, and "Golden Brown Waffles" I<,ederal law defines collective Joseph Duffey, general fringe benefit improvements," the 
buy one and get one tree

bargaining as "the performance of secretary of the AAUP, claimed committee stated. 
I

the mutual obligation of the em­that the 1972 decision "was based in Following its examination of the I with this coupon ·•· ployer and the representative of large part, on the belief that goals of collective bargaining at 
ExPIRES MON., JAN. 19th ·.

the employees to meet at collective bargaining can serve to other institutions and the methods reasonable times and confer in advance the most important of achieving them, the Faculty U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North 
good faith with respect to wages, principles of the AAUP." I his Senate report addressed itself to Across from Holiday Inn)hours, and other terms and con­preface to the AAUP-published 
the question of collective 
ditions of employment, or the Primer on Collective Bargaining bargaining at Notre Dame. ----COUPON ---­
l 

"only where the participants
at work and at parties who were charged, "the recommendations of 
,__ClassifiedAd~-­

clearly understood their goals and 
the be 

negotiation of an agreement, or for College and University Faculty, • "The present situation at Notre Duffey lists these principles as Dame," the committee concluded, "the need for tenure to secure "shows increasingly a tendency
Insurance hours 
academic freedom; the need for 

toward a management-employee
academic due process, with peer
changed rather than a collegial relationship 
judgement the essential ingredient 
between admistration and faculty. 
The Student Insurance Office in 
in faculty personnel decisions; the 
A number of channels for faculty
the Student Infirmary will have central role of the faculty in the 
involvement in university.
new office hours for the second governance of their institutions; governance are specified in the
semester. The office will be open and the need to attain and secure 
Academic Manual, the report
daily from 4 to 5:30p.m. instead of 
economic justice for the 
continued, "but it reserves to the
from noon to I p.m. as previously. professoriate." 
administration large areas for 
"We have experience now," 
action and decision-making
Duffey states, "to conclude that 
without input from the faculty."

DC internships collective bargaining can, where other means have failed, work to (cnntinued from page 1) establish a strong and meaningful Academic Manual ignored "In the internship, you meet faculty voice 'consistent with the best features of higher education.' 
people and make contacts. I meet! "In areas where faculty inputs to 
But this has occurred," he warns,
a lot of congressmen and senators decision are specified," the report 
very nice. "The people that you faculty may ignored; 
meet can help you get a good job the means they selected to pursue neither accountability nor after graduation," Williams noted. them." grievance procedures are Williams stated that she was provided."
Collective 'contracts examined

somewhat disappointed because In an appendix to the main she did not see as much of In its second report on collective report, the Senate committee Washington as she would have bargaining, the Notre Dame detailed four instances in which liked. "Also, I think we could have Faculty Senate committee cited the administration failed to learned more if we had worked "Principles of bilateralism and comply with the provisions of the more in our internships. I was shared governance in matters of Academic Manual. Two cases here to learn more from the ex­academic financial priorities" and involved appointments of ad­perience than from lectures and "gains in compensation" as goals­ministrators and two involved readings," she stated. of faculty bargaining units. Te irregularities in university 
"I could criticize everything, report listed provisions of recent governance procedures relating to though. It really is what the AAUP-negotiated collective the reorganization of the Graduate student makes it," concluded bargaining contracts aimed at School in 1971 and of the Radiation 
Williams. achieving those goals. Laboratory in 1974-75. 
• •• at the NEW MEN'S STORE •
•

• January Sale~ 
20-50% OFF : 
•

NAME BRAND 
•

SUITS SPORTCOATS OUTERWEAR 
LEISURE SUITS LEATHER COATS 
• 

DRESS SHIRTS SLACKS TIES 
• 

BELTS SWEATERS LEISURE SHIRTS • 
• 

PLINTLDI:Il •
•

MEN'S SHOP 
• 100 CENTER sJ:J~vv~~-:-6 • 
WANTED  NOTICES  
Transfer student needs basketball season ticket. Call 1081. ask for Kent.  IBM Selectric II typing, student rates, d issertatlons; L lnda •s Letters, 289-5193.  
Desperately need Marquette tickets. Call Mike 8720. Wanted: six tickets for Maryland. N D basketball game. Jan. 31; Call Mike or Ann after 6 p.m. at 272· 5884.  ND·SMC Council for the Retarded. Sat. rec. begins ths Sat 9 a.m. For Info, call Tom Horbln 287·6673 or Cathy McGlynn 288·4315. FOR SALE  
Female housemate wanted to share house 2'12 blocks from Angela·Notre Dame Ave. In· tersectlon. Call 289-4303 between 5 p.m. and 10 p.m. Will pay big bucks for two UCLA tickets. Please help! Call Jim 8950 .  Your Kind Of People Serious h lgh-fidellty sound systems to keep you loose, yet at a price that won't get you uptight. Stereo Components 20.40 percent Discount RMS Audio 321 S. Main South Bend, Ind.  
Need 4 tickets to Maryland game. Call Mike after 6 p.m. 288·0088  COUCHES .. $20·$30. Free delivery to dorm. Call Mrs. 'Cooper 272.3004  
Need 2 tickets to Maryland game; Call 1633.  PERSONALS  
LOST & FOUND Lost: Calculator, Checkbook, oth. er items of value in plastic box in back of Stanford. PLEASE call 8738 . FOR RENT Rent my upstairs; $50 month. 233­1329 . Country house for rent; very reasonable; twelve minutes travel; 233-2613 House for Rent partially fur­nished; extremely reasonable; 287-7018 or 233·2613  UPWARD BOUND Wi.shes a prosperous second semester for the following volunteer tutorers Liz Adamson Edward Alexander Clinton Berry Karl Blette Vincent Brolley Albert Callahan John Delaney Dee Devlin Bob Froehlke James Gajewski Carlos Gutierrez Bill Henry Steve Konstant Kweku Laast Reyn Lentz Barbara Mackey James Martin Deborah Mciver John Meyers Gary Pelke Mary Lynn Plha Ellen Rocheleau Michael Roohen Robert Stell Rosemary Tlrlnnanzl Donna Townsend Tony Wesley Belinda White Mark Grove Thomas Lillen Roland B. Smith, Jr.,ActlngDirector  
Rent my Patty  upstairs  $50.  233-1329  Elizabeth L. Wappenstelnn, Ad· m lnlstratlve Asst.  

1 ''HARD TIMES'' 
Fri. & Sat. 7:45, 9:45 
Fri. & Sat. 7:30. 9:45 
~ "SUNFLOWER"
L and A BOY NAMED CHARLIE BROWN 
13()iler-tl()use t=lix 
TWIN THEATRES-100 CENTER-MISHAWAKA-255-951 


~'·''~·~"~"~"·~'--------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, January 16, 1976

12 the observer 
Cagers • Cincy to face Xavier
lD 

by Rich Odioso Indeed they can -the last team to 
Rockin' steady play at Xavier, St. Joseph's (Pa.), hrr-;• a comparatively easy part fouled out eight players and ' tJ;; •.-hedule Digger's Irish will finished the game with only two 
: mcinnati Saturday af-players on the c.ourt. 
. ~nc.·.. to take on unsung Xavier. Leading Musketeer point ·ay ""' :-r's Musketeers stand 7-5 producers are forward Dale .. , lh• .cason after winning the last Haarman and guard Gary Whit­-·o g<~ 1es over Canisius and St. field each averaging around 17 ,1osepl· ·: of Pennsylvania. points per game. Both started 
The lwo teams have had only one their college careers elsewhere, l .lmm.-n opponent to date -Kent Haarman spending a year at · ; ate. The Irish downed the Mississippi State while Whitfield is , :olden Flashes 90-61 in the season a transfer from Brewer Junior l' ,)Cner while Xavier lost to Kent College in Alabama. ; .i -71 during the Marshall In-Whitfield's backcourt mate is 
;!ational freshman Terrence Daniels who This is Notre Dame's first visit to prefers to be called Nick. He's !J:e Queen City after home games hitting twelve points a game. Baker with the Muskies each of the last has been shuffling his lineup lately three years. Xavier has been an although Joe Sunderman has been easy touch for the Irish in the past starting at center and Tony with Notre Dame holding victories Hubbard figures to be the other by margins of 26, 43 and 38 points. forward. Mike Plunkett, Xavier's 
• The contest was originally leading scorer a year ago, has been planned for Cincinnati's new relegated to a sixth man role but he Riverfront Colliseum but the still hits ten points per contest. 
The Irish will try to extend their winning streak to four games against Xavier tomorrow. 
Soviet Circus was already booked Gone is Gary Deidrick who broke 
so instead the 2 p.m. EST tip-off Adrian Dantley's nose in a crun­things can happen on the road." was the highest total by an Irish final warmup tilt prior to the will be in the dilapidated Cin­ching ACC collision one year ago. percentage. His 13 of 19 against player other than Dantley whose crucial eight days that find cinnati Gardens best known for its That helped limit A.D. to 23 points Ball State puts his percentage back lowest point production is 18. nationally ranked UCLA, De Paul defuncting of the NBA Royals. as the Irish cruised 96-58. up to .602. The .563 team shooting against and Maryland all -invading the "They're a scrappy team that Dantley's 33 points in Wed­Dave Batton began picking up Ball State raised the Irish shooting ACC. Before all that though, Notre runs its patterns well," says Notre nesday's ll9-78 thrashing of Ball St­the slack left by the ineligibility of average on the year to .502. Notre Dame must deal with Xavier about 
Dame assistant Frank McLaughlin ate raised the All-America's Bill Laimbeer with a season high Dame is outscoring its opponents whom McLaughlin is trite but true of Xavier, "They have a number scoring average to 28.3 ppg. A.D. 17b points and 9 rebounds. Batton is 87.4 to 71.5. in saying a win Saturday on of good new players and they're has recovered from the now averaging 8.4 points per The Irish return Wednesday to national TV will make theirwhole better than in years past. We disastrous Manhattan game both game third on the team to Duck host St. Joseph's of Indiana in a season. should be favored but still strange in his scoring and in his shooting Williams 9.2. Batton's 17 points 
ND hockey team hoping 
*Observer


to rebound at Michigan 
by Ernie Torriero league, the Maize and Blue sport a has a tremendous head about him mediocre 9-7 ECHA record. 
on the ice." Manery has netted 19 "They have big strong defen­goals and 11 assists, giving him 55 


Sports

In what may prove to be the semen," Smith further argued. career goals which places him in a
turning point of the Notre Dame "Michigan moves the puck around tie for 16th place amonghockey season, the Irish travel to very well." 
Michigan's all-time goal scorers.
Ann Arbor, Michigan to battle the Though the Wolverines have yet 
always mighty Wolverines. Face­Michigan is exceptionally strong 
to put it all together, they do earn 
off is slated for 7:30 EST at the in goal where All-American Robbie 
the title of one of the most ex­
Yost arena. Moore occupies the position. In 
Wrestlers host dual meet
plosive teams in collegiate hockey. 
"On paper,'• Notre Dame coach just under 18 games, Moore boasts 
Juniors Pat Hughes and Doug
Lefty Smith explained, "Michigan a 4.9 goals-against average.
Lindskog head up the list of im­
against DePauw, MTSU

is about as good as the best teams pressive forwards. Hughes (8 For -only the third time in eightin the country. They have to have goals and 12 assists) and Lindskog seasons, Notre Dame enters the The Notre Dame wrestling team were the other Irish winners. The 
will face DePauw University and

the best personal in the league." (nine goals and 14 assists) ranked last half of their schedule with a score was 12-all going into the 190 If the Wolversines are that good, three and four on Michigan's winning percentage. The first two Middle Tennessee State University and heavyweight matches, where their record certainly does not scoring list last season. times this happened was the initial at home in a double match this for the third time this season,the indicate it. For Michigan is Yet it is junior right winger Kris two years of Notre Dame hockey. Saturday at lp.m. lack of a big man meant the dif­
presently mired in-a fourth place Manery which is chruning up the This figure is an important The Notre Dame wrestling team ference as the Warriors scored on
one 
tie with Colorado College in the came off the long holiday break on a pin and forfeit.
Michigan scoring column. "I wish because if Notre Dame puts on the 
WCHA. The Wolves have 18 points, a sour note last Saturday as they The addition of Notre Dame
I had a whole team of Manery's," kind of late season surge that they 
just two points ahead of the Irish Wolverine coach Dan Farrell have been known to do in the past, dropped a 24-12 decision to the footballers Bob Golic and Joe who !>olely own sixth place. For bellowed. "He plays his position the result could be a high WCHA Marquette Warriors in Milwaukee. Pszerackito the Irish roster is the 
There was one bright spot for the

having the best people in the well, skates hard all the time and finish. long-awaitedstrength at the top
Irish however. Senior co-captain

This weekend's play will mark two weight classes needed by
DaveBoyer, making his first ap­

the third and fourth times coach Ray Sepeta's squad. Golic, Michigan and Notre Dame have pearance of the year, was vic­a freshman, was last year's Ohio 
torious at 158 with a 4-l decision.

met this season. In early Heavyweight Schoolboy Cham­
That decision gives Boyer 51 career a vereran
November the teams split a two pion,and Pszeracki is 
victories, eclipsing the Notre Dame senior at 190.

game series at Notre Dame. The 
career victories record of 50 held

Irish won Friday night 5-3 behind The Irish will beon the road the
by Ken Ryan and Al Rocek. The

the two-goal effort of Kevin following Wednesday and Thur­
Michigan native has a career

Nugent. Angie Moretto's hat trick sday nights as they travel east to
record of 51-19-5, a .732 percentage.

powered the Wolverines to a 9-6 meet Cleveland State and Slippery 
Mike Merriman 026), Pete
win the following night. 

Rock State on successive nights .. 
Murphy 042) and Rob Dreger 077) 

Notre Dame will once again be without the services of junior wing Alex Pirus. Pirus has missed the 
Kush, Maurer named as 

last five games after injuring a knee in practice. The 6-1, 210 pound Pirus has netted 17 goals 
top· Coqches of the Year 
and 10 assists. He plays on Notre 
ST. LOUIS <AP> -Frank ond time in three years. In sev~
Dame's premier line with Brian 
Kush and Dave Maurer, who en years as Wittenberg's · head 
Walsh and Clark Hamilton each of 
grew up less than 60 miles coach, after 14 seasons as an
whom have 32 points on the season. 
apart in western Pennsylvania assistant, he has compiled 1
His place will be taken by senior 
and whose only coaching jobs record of 60-10-2, including a Il­Tim Byers. 
have spanned 21 years apiece l mark last fall and a thi:·d
"I didn't think we would miss the schools, won NCAA III
at same the Division national
Pirus as much as we do, " Smith 
coveted Coach of the Year championship . 

confided. "He really is a spark 
awards Thursday from the Maurer's career winning per·
plug and we missed his presence 
American Football Coaches As­centage of .833 makes him thelast weekend." 
sociation. winningest coach in the coun­
Once again sophomores Len Kush, 46, who came to Ari­try, one point ahead of Penn Moher and John Peterson will zona State in 1955 and has been State's Joe Paterno. share the goal-tending duties. head coach for 18 years, was "My mother always told me Earlier in the year, Moher turned named major college Coach of that honesty is the best policy, away 48 Wolverine drives in a 9-6 the Year for leading the Sun and to be quite honest I'm a loss. Moher played exceptionally Devils to the best record in the little embarrassed," Maurer well in the 4-4 overtime tie with country-12-Q-and a No. 2 na­said in accepting his award. "If Minnesota Saturday night posting tional ranking in 1975. Arizona you have the good fortune to 48 saves in the contest. State capped its campaign with have a good team and a good 
The rise or demise, whichever, a 17-14 triumph over Nebraska coaching staff, one of these of the Notre Dame hockey squad in the Fiesta Bowl. awards should be all the law al­
Len Moher and John Peterson will once again share the goal-tending 
may be heard locally over the Maurer, 43, won the honor in lows. To receive two ... well, myduties as the Irish face Michigan this weekend. 
radio waves of WSND and WNDU. the College Division for the sec-cup runneth over. 






