
lnnsbruck offers differe11t kind of learning 

server 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. IX, No. 18 Friday, September 24, 1976 


Carter, Ford clash in TV debates 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Presi­their records in a nationally tele­and perhaps as much as $200 he asked for was a $4.7 billion posal that seeks to cut adult dent Ford and Jimmy Carter vised confrontation that will shape billion to the federal budget. increase. In December 1975, he unemployment to 3 percent. debated taxes and unemployment the campaign ahead. Carter has said in the past that vetoed an $18 billion to $20 billion Ford also said his tax-cut recom­Thursday night. the Democratic At one point, Carter said Ford he has no firm figure for the cost of tax reduction bill, then came back mendations would help curb unem­nominee accusing the President of docs not take into account the the programs he advocates, but later and did advocate a $10 billion ployment. The President said he insensitivity toward the jobless, the human dimension of unemploy­that he would defer the programs tax reduction." could cut taxes bv $28 billion if President asserting that his chal­ment. "a terrible tragedy in this until funding was available without The former Georgia governor ~ongress would cooperate by keep­lenger is short on specifics and long countrv." increasing taxes. said Ford's position has been in mg down expenditures. on federal spending proposals. "Th-is affects human beings. and After Carter outlined his pro­line with Republican philosophy, "If we keep the lid on federal 
From the stage of the antique his insensitivity ... has made this a posals for action tJ deal with which Carter said has been to "pile spending as we could, with the help Walnut Street Theater. the White welfare administration, and not a unemployment, which he said · taxes on low-income people and 
(Continued on page 9)
House rivals argued the issues and work administration," Carter said. would get top priority if he is take them off the rich." 
He said 500,000 people have lost ele.:ted. Ford said he didn't think In addition, he said, he would their jobs in the last three months the Democrat had been "any more "increase production in every way "and they are human beings." specific in this case than he has possible," seek to alleviate and Government unemployment fig­been in many other instances.'' reform the burden of federal taxes ures for August showed 7.9 percent Carter soon got his chance for a and consider a program to have the of the work force was unemployed comeback, calling the current tax government pay part of the salaries 
or nearly eight million people. laws a disgrace and a program for of jobless workers rehired in pri­
Ford said the way to spur the the rich. vate industry. economy and create new jobs is to Ford said he wanted a $28 billion He said that with such programs, keep the lid on federal spending tax cut, and had recommended it unemployment can be cut to 4-4.5 and let the taxpayers have the along with a lid on federal spend­percent of the work force within money to spend themselves. The ing. four years, inflation can be control­President said he favors an addi­"It seems to me that with more led and the federal budget can be 
tional $10 billion tax cuL money in the hands of the taxpayer balanced. 
He said that would permit him to· and more money in the hands of Carter said that because the recommend moderate spending in­business to provide jobs, our nation's productive capacity is not creases "in the quality of life economy will be stimulated," Ford being fully utilized and because area," and still submit a balanced said. unemployment is now at 7.9 per­federal budget to Congress in Ford indicated he probably will cent, the programs he advocates January 1978. sign the tax bill now on his desk, to would not kindle inflation. 
"I cannot and would not endorse continue tax reductions already in Then came Ford's turn, a two­the kind of programs that Gov. effect. minute rebuttal he used to go on Carter recommends," Ford said. In his comeback, Carter said: the offensive by asserting that He said Carter has endorsed a "Mr. Ford is changing consider­Carter had again failed to provide Democratic platform that envisions ably his previous philosophy." specifics. He noted that Carter had 
JAMES E. CARTER 

about 60 additional spending pro­He said, "When Mr. Ford first not mentioned the Humphrey­grams that would add $100 billion became president, the first thing Hawkins bill. a Democratic pro-


GERALD R. FORD 

St. Mary's hall presidents organize Inside 
by Paul Carron for the group. The council consists receive no budget and operate with closed for the time being, until the 
today's

Staff Reporter of the presidents of four halls and the money allotted to each hall -$2 formative process has been com­two representatives from Augusta, per resident. pleted." 
*

The new Hall Presidents Council which does not elect a president. "As of now, we have no budget, The council expressed gratitude at St. Mary's met last night to list However, these representatives no power, but a lot of ideas," to the Notre Dame HPC for Observer goals, discuss their constitution hold only one vote. stated Susy Gauthier. permitting them to attend their and to organize the structure of the The HPC was for~ped because of "The council will meet once meetings. Gauthier stated that the council. Susy Gauthier was unani­the need for better hall government every two weeks," noted Julie St. Mary's HPC hopes to continue 
lebanon has a new

mously elected chairperson of the and improv«::d interhall relations, Pellettiere, president of Holy to send representatives so they can 
president

six member council. according to Gauthier. They will Cross. "The meetings will be keep communication lines open. ... on page 3 '"The HPC plans to be a vehicle · 
~ !

to improve hall life,'' explained 
Henry Kissinger made

Gauthier. The finai goal listed last 
breakthroughs in his

night was the council's planning of 
African shuttle

long range projects, including 
diplomacy

activities with the women's dorms .. on page 4 at Notre Dame. Gauthier cited "a greater degree 
St. Mary's will have 

of unity" as a major aim of the new 
LSAT prep sessions on 

organization. She commented that 
Thursday, September

the council hopes to set policies and 
30. ...on page 5 
"establish consistencies" in inter­hall government. Regarding the constitution, the Another magnificent
\

presidents discussed the preamble Michiana meal at the and certain aspects they felt neces­.\ Country Inn ... on page 7 sary for a complete constitution. The constitution is presently being written and will be submitted to the Children's poisoning
~~ 

next Student Assembly meeting. dangers discussed 
1.' -~ . .. on page 10 
Due to the small number of council members, it was agreed \,. 
Football picks 

...on page 12 person who w;· ..1ct ·'iS a coordinator that the officer will be the chair­
Long range plans were considered as a means to make the St. Mary's HPC a vehicle to improve hall life. (Photo by jim Hofman.) 
by Kate Flynn Staff Reporter 

While most Notre Dame sopho­mores choose to nestle comfortably back into campus life, there are usually forty or so who hop aboard a 747 for abroad. Destination: Innsbruck. Austria. Reason: To learn the Dewey way. 
American educator John Dewey taught that education out of the classroom or education of action is most effective. Innsbruckers are anonymous Dewey disciples who consider Innsbruck as a unique setting for learning-by-doing. 
What are the doings of Inns­bruckers? They travel the continent by stream-lined German trains or maybe rickety Spanish Expressos. They struggle with Austrian dialect or French phrase books. They barter t-shirts for Moroccan jabala robes, or when Innsbruck hosts the Winter Olympics, as it did last 
*
Observer 
Insight 

year, they work for ABC; that is, if they are not in Paris or Madrid during semester break. 
But the Innsbruck experience entails more than exotic travels to European countries. It is a twelve­year-old structured program designed to broaden the liberal education of today's student. Two semesters of cultural and language studied are conducted by Austrian professors hired by Notre Dame While attending the university, students are housed throughout Innsbruck in private and student homes. 
Study begin in late August. By then Innsbruckers have moved into the renovated stables of Schloss Klesheim in Salzburg for five weeks of intensive German study. 
Once outside the classroom though. the real learning begins ­in Salzburg laundrymats, village Gasthauser (inns) or atop Unters­
berg.  the  favorite  of  Salzburg  
mountain climbers.  
As Sheila Pfister.  former  lnns­ 
brucker  explained.  "You  start  

learning with language skills from the classroom. But opportunities to learn outside are limitless. You've got to talk to the people, bike into 
(Continued on page 9) 

the observer Friday, September 24, 1976 
128 north m1ch1gan street, downtown south bend phone 234-1431 

frioay & saturday, september 24th. 25th BLUES HARPIST 
BIG \NALTER HORTON 
FREE ADMISSION every monday night for an oldies dance party featuring CLEAN GENE'S RHYTHM & BLUES EXPRESS 



MUSlC, 
• 

~--News Briefs--.....,. 
l=========lntemational Energy wasted 
PARIS·· The International Energy Agency accused Americans yesterday of wasting valuable energy resources because of cheap fuel prices. It said prices must rise soon if conservation is to be taken seriously. 


Postmaster fined 

WASHINGTON--Former Postmaster General W. Marvin Watson was fined $500 yesterday after he pleaded guilty to assisting in the cover-up of an illegal contribution to Richard M. Nixon's 1972 presidential campaign. Watson was charged with helping conceal the identity of Armand Hammer, chairman of the Occidental Petroleum Corp., as the source of $54,000 given to the Nixon campaign after April 7, 1972. 

Progress in strike 
DETROIT--For the first time since the United Auto Workers struck Ford Motor Co. nine days ago, bargainers said yesterday they were making progress toward a new three-year contract. A company analyst said the strike probably cost Ford several thousand sales because ·'people may have assumed we don't have any cars." 
friday 

On Campus Today-....... 
'l:15 p.m. 
noon to 
10 p.m. 
4 p.m. 
8 p.m. 
8 p.m. 

9 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
sawrday 
7:30p.m. 
11 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
10 a.m. to 
3 p.m. 
noon to 10 p.m. 
1:30 p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
o;;unday 
noon to 

5 p.m. 
~2:30p.m. 

--mass and dinner at the bulla shed. 
--antique show at the ace. 
--seminar, "pulse radiolysis study of radical cations from sulphur organic .compounds" by dr. k.d. asrnus, hahn-meitner institute, berlin, in the conference room of the radiation research building. sponsored by the radiation laboratory. 
--bobby vinton concert at the ace. 
--bible study, campus crusade for christ, in the flanner penthouse. 
--pre-victory dance in the Iafortune ballroom, sponsored by the knights of columbus. music by bagshot row from chicago. charge of $1, members admitted free. 
--meeting for the society for creative anachronism in th·· Iafortune ballroom. 
--world hunger coalition picnic in the carroll hall yard for all members. in case of rain, will be postponed to sunday. 
--film workshop on bolivia in the audio visual theatre, kellog center, sponsored by the indiana consortium for international program. 
--antique show in the ace. 
--football, northwestern vs. notre dame at evanston. 
--film, "amanush", in the library auditorium, ~!Jon sored by the india association. 
--antique show in the ace.$ 
--knights of columbus first degree initiation in the !<nights of columbus hall. 


Campus clubs to split $6,000 
by Jack C. SUhavy Staff Reporter 

A Student Government commit­tee will decide Sunday which University clubs and organizations will receive money for their opera­tions this year. Sixteen groups have applied for a share' of the approximate $6000 available 
Campus organizations applying for the money were required to submit a written statement to the committee this past week. Each 
In Hearst kidnapping 


Harrises plead innocent to charge 
BERKELEY, Calif. (AP) -Com­plaining that a guard had scuffled with them outside the courtroom, William and Emily Harris pleaded innocent yesterday to the kidnap­ing of Patricia Hearst, who is to be sentenced today for a terrorist bank robbery. 
The Harrises appeared in Mun­icipal Court here, about a mile from the apartment where the Sym­bionese Liberation Army snatched Miss Hearst from the life she had known and held her captive until she swore them allegiance. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Daniel "Boone" Sanchez Ass't Night Editor: Katie Kerwin layout Staff: Rosemary Mills, Jane Knight, Mary Ann Moor­man, Paula Carroll, Joe "J o­JocJo" Wheaton Editorial layout: Pat Hanifin, Jerry Hickey Features layout: Gregg "Nickel Bag" Bangs, Don Salemi Sp •rts layout: The beautiful and seductive Lady M Typists: Morey "Book Bag" Blinder, Nancy Cueroni, Mary McCormick Early Morning Typist: Terri Harlan Day Editor: Jean Powley Copy Reader: Tom Byrne, Barb Langhenry, Don Reimer Ad layout: Pat Russell Photographer: Jim Hoffman 
1 hP Ob>t>rwr" puhl1'h"d Monddy through I nda~ dnd weekly dunng tht> sumnwr ""'s1on, exc t>pt dunng tht> exam and Vi!Ciltlon JWrJods The Ob>Prver i; publ1shed by studt>nts of the Un1vPrs1ty of Notre Dame and St Mary's Collt>gt' Subsmptiom may he purchasPd tor $20 per year ($10 per semester) tram Tht> Qb,er· ver. Box Q, Notre Dame, lnd1ana 46556 Second class postagP paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductiOn rights are rest>rved 
was to explain the purpose of their club and present a budget from last year as well as a proposed budget for this year. In addition, the group was required to explain why they should funding. 
Each group will present their case before the committee on Sunday evening. The committee will decide Sunday night which groups will receive money. Stu­dent Government Treasurer Eric 
Ryan  stated  that  all  available  
money is used  to help  the  most  
needy groups.  

The decision committee is made up ot seven students including 
While the Harrises were being arraigned on a criminal complaint, Miss Hearst was in a cell in the Federal Youth Correctional Facility in Pleasanton, about 40 miles southeast of here. The 22-year-old newspaper heiress was flown there Wednesday from a San Diego facility. 
The Harrises, already serving 11-year-to-life prison terms for kidnaping, robbery and car theft in a Los Angeles crime spree for which Miss Hearst still faces trial. smiled frequently amid whispered conversations with each other dur­ing their arraignment. 
Defense attorney Leonard W ein­glass complained during the arraignment a guard manhandled the Harrises while the defense team was conferring in another courtroom about an hour before the arraignment. 
Weinglass, representing Harris, said a sheriff's deputy interrupted the conference to seize Mrs. Harris. When her husband tried to intervene, Weinglass said. he was 

BUS TRIP TO GRATEFUL DEAD October 1st to and from 
MARKET SQUARE 

ARENA sponsored by NO Social Commission 
Tickets on sale Monday $5.00 
Student Union Ticket Office 
LIMITED SUPPLY 
·Student Body President Mike Gass­man, Vice President Mike Casey and Ryan. Three Student Life Council members, Ed Van Tassel, John Steinman, and Pete Haley as well as Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) J.P. Russel will also serve on the committee. 
The money will come from what is left over from the University allocation made to Student Union, Student Government and the HPC. Each year, about $6000 is left over, "give or take," said Ryan. This is then given to various campus clubs and organizations to help them out, he stated. 
wrestled to the ground by a deputy 
and his glasses were knocked off. 
Judge Wilmont Sweeney said he would look into the ma'tter and set a preliminary hearing for Oct. 7. If a grand jury indicts the Harrises before then, as is expected, the indictment would replace the crim­inal complaint and the case would go directly to Superior Court where they would be arraigned again. 
Miss Hearst is among 45 witnes­ses scheduled to testify before the grand jury. She could be sentenced to a maximum of 35 years in prison or a minimum of time already served on the bank robbery char­ges. 
Erratum 

The story on St. Mary's student assembly elections on Wednesday, Sept. 22 stated that all off-campus and day student positions were filled. However, these positions are still vacant. 
Palestinian cease-fire ordered 





New Lebanese president is inaugurated 
by Alex Efty Associated Press Writer 

CHTOURA, Lebanon [AP] -Protec­ted by Syrian troops and armor, Elias Sarkis was sworn in yesterday as the new Christian president of war-torn Lebanon. In a gesture of support, Palestinian guerrilla lead­er Y «sir Araft said he would tell his forces to cease fire. 
Arafat said: "I shall order my forces to cease fire on all Lebanese territory and avoid answering any provocations... I hope the coming days will bring the beginning of the end of the agony of both our people, Lebanese and Palestin­ian.'.' 
Arafat did not specify a deadline for putting his unilateral cease-fire order into effect. 


Another pledge of support for Sarkis came from Egyptian Presi­dent Anwar Sadat in an interview published by the Beirut newspaper An Nahar. He was quoted as saying "Egypt is fully behind Sarkis." 
Sadat was further quoted as saying he is ready to give Sarkis ''the heaviest and most modern weapons in Egypt's arsenal" to 


ND food co-op appears doomed 
by Paul Hess Staff Reporter 

Unless a reasonable alternative emerges in the next few days, Notre Dame's off-campus commun­ity will be without a co-op food program for the 1976-77 school year. 
This is the assessment of Student Body president Mike Gassman and Off-Campus Commissioner John Kinney, both of whom expressed reservations yesterday as to whether the co-op program would ever be initiated. 
"To be honest. it's not too promising,'' said Gassman, citing last year's faifure as a less than encouraging precedent. "You need money and a good_ facility to get a program like this going, and right now we have neither. 
Kinney, a junior who resides off campus, said that he has not yet given up hope. "We're still not sure about it," he said. "Right now it doesn't look too good, but there are as yet a few possibilities." 
One such possibility is an arrangement with one of the local grocery stores, the E & L Super­market, which is locatP-d across from Nickie's Bar on Eddy Street. Such a deal would involve sori1e type of discount for off-campus Notre Dame students. "As of now 


rilll-.. .... ·-... 
Senate clears way to discuss bill to strengthen civil rights laws 
by John Chadwick Associated Press Writer 

WASHINGTON (AP) -The Sen­ate cleared a major hurdle yester d~y toward passage of a bill designed to strengthen enforce­ment of civil rights laws. 
A move to put the Senate's anti-filibuster ·rule into effect passed 63 to 26, or three more than the required three-fifths majority of the 100 senators. 
Seven roll call votes were neces­sary -to force a showdown on curbing debate. 
Sen. James B. Allen, D-Ala .. battling to prevent passage of the bill. threw up one roadblock after another and closure was voted over his shouted protests that his at­tempt to raise a point of order was being ignored. 
The court would permit the courts to award attorneys' fees to private citizens who bring success­ful civil rights I'Cnforcement suits. 
This already is permitted under some civil rights law but is not specifically authorized under others, as required by a Supreme Court ruling last year. 
The bill's supporters said it is necessary so citizens can afford to vindicate in the courts the rights granted them by Congress. 

Box Office Open Mon. Thru Fri. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. $7.50, $4.50, $2.50 
1 0 percent Student 

the E & L is our most feasible alternative," Kinney added, "but we probably won't know for sure until next week. 
The problem with the co-op is twofold. First, a considerable in­vestment is needed to establish it, involving money and personneL But there is even a greater prob­lem. according to Gassman. , 
"Last year the co-op was a failure," he admits, "because there just wasn't enough student interest. Without their commit­ment, it won 'twork." 
Tom Soma, director of special projects for student government, has been assigned the task of searching for a viable alternative. 


Sen. John V. Tunney, D-Calif., civil rights lawyers' relief act. floor manager of the bill, said that Tunney and others challenged help him end the 17-month civil war but would not send troops. 
In Washington a U.S. State Department spokesman assessed the inaugurlltion of Sarkis as an opportunity to end the war and rebuild Lebanon's shattered struc­ture. 
As Sarkis took the oath of office in this Syrian-occupied town, right­wing Christians and the alliance of leftist Moslems and Palestinian guerillas continued to battle along the urban front dividing Beirut, the capital. 
Though a relative calm was reported during the day along the three main civil war fronts. hospital sources estimated the casualty toll as at least 100 killed and 146 wounded in a 24-hour period. 

Chtoura, 30 miles east of Beirut, was chosen as the site for the most bizarre presidential inauguration in Lebanon's 30years of indepen­dence because it was considered the safest spot for parliament to meet. The town, under Syrian military occupation since last .June when 13,000 Syrian troops and 500 · tanks took over two-thirds of Leb­anon in an effort to end the civil war. was ringed by hundreds of Syrian troops. tanks, armored cars and_missle launchers. 
Lebanes deputies arriving for the inauguration traveled in motor­cades escorted by truckloads of armed men of the numerous pri­vate militias, with the bodyguards fingering the triggers of their heavmachineguns and other weap­ons. 
The Park Hotel. where parlia­
ment met for the inauguration,was 
cut off by lines of red-bereted 
soldiers of the select Syrian Special 

Security Regiment, who forced the 
accompanying troops and guards to 
stay outside. 

The security precautions imposed by the Syrian occupation troops were so strict that Chtoura dtzens were allowed on the streets. The people Were even barred fgrom watching the proceedings from their balconies. which together with numerous rooftops. were occupied by more armed Syrian troops. 
A smooth transfer of oftke ot Sarkis as the elected president was 
in  doubt  right  up  to  the  last  
minute. A bloc  of  Moslem  and  
Christian  deputies.  ranging  from  

the moderate Premier Rashid Kar­ami to Kamal Jumblatt, the leader of the leftist alliance. boycotted to ceremony to protest its being staged in a town under Syrian occupation. 
Despite this a quorum of o' members of the 98-member par­liament finallv assembled and one hour after the scheduled time Sarkis stoop up in the packed conference room of the hotel to take the oath. 
He pledged to end the civil war in a w.•y that would insure Leban­on's iuerests and also safeguard the Palestinian cause. 
'''I hts. however. require!> an immediate cessation of hostilities and a resort to dialogue." he added. 
"I shall spare no effort to help the Palestinian guerrilla movement regain its homeland. The differ­ences that touched off the civil war should be dealt with positively. to rescue Lebanon from the current disaster without hurting the Pales­tinian rights." he said. 
His moderate tone contrasted with the farewell address Sunday of outgoing President Suleiman Fran­jieh, also a Christian, who blamed the guerrillas entirely for the civil 
war. 

it "will close a looJ:""We in our Allen or anyone else to, name-a:FOC:IOCIOI:.OOCIOC:IOCIOIIOI:.OOCIIOCIOI:.OOCIOCliOCIOIIOI:.OOCIOCIIOCIOI:.OOCI• present civil rights enforcement lawyer who has gotten rich off a 1 · laws." civil rights case. "It just doesn't 
Attention Junior Class 
Allen argued it would not pro-happen," he said. v.ide for a single additional civil The vote to apply the Senate's 
Buses for northwestern leave at 10: am. 
nght but would only help to enrich anti-filibuster rule was crucial to lawyers ar.d encourage them to stir the bill's chances for pas~age his 
Sat. from CCE. Must bring ticket & ID 
up litigatic·n. vear. Hto said it should be called the -Acting majority leader Robert C. 
Any questions Call 

Byrd, D-W.Va., said that had the move failed, the bill would have, Pat 1854 had tv be shelved because of other
Study HeIp group legislation to be handled before! or 


to meet Mon. 
The Neighborhood Study Help Program, a volunteer organization, will hold a meeting at 7:30 p.m. Monday in LaFortune ballroom. All those who previously signed up or who are interested should attend. 
The program involves tutoring children in South Bend elementary schools in basic subjects such as math, reading and spelling. 
Those unable to attend or having questions about the program should call Tom Sheffield at 272­4%5. 

Like agood 
neighbor~ 


·State Farm 
isthere. 
with help for your · car, home, life and health insurance. 
See.me. 
STEVE J. BEHR Agent 
800 E. Jefferson South Bend. Indiana 46617 
Bus. Phone:
STATE FARM 
A 
288-4718 
Res. Phone: 
INSURANCE 
234-5380 


STATE FARM 
Insurance Companies 
Home Offices: Bloomington, Illinois ' 

Congress' scheduled adjournment 
Marylou 8148

late next week. 

Not Merely a Graduate 


Level Engineering Program 
The Navy Nuclear POwer Program is a total systems approadl to problem solving. Admiral H. G. Rickover implemented this program to train intelligent men to address complex problems through knowledge and understanding rather than rote compliance to set procedures. This is the most selective and highest paying Engineering specialty in the Navy. In addition to full pay and benefits, it includes a $1,500 bonus for completion of Nuclear Power School and a $20,000 four year continuation bonus. 
The Navy needs some very special Notre Dame Graduates who aren't afraid to find out how good they are. 

NAVY ON CAMPUS 
OCTOBER 6-8 

MAKE APPOINTMENTS WITH PLACEMENT OFFICE 

r 
4 the observer Friday, September 24, 1976 
~----~~~~~~~~-------~~~~~ 




Kissingerglobetrots in African mediation effort 
LONDON lAP] -Henry A. Kissin­
ger arrived last night from ten days 
of shuttling around Africa in 
search of a peace settlement bet­

ween black African leaders and the 
white  minority regimes  of South  
Africa and Rhodesia.  
Secretary Kissinger  said  

hethoughtit would be surprising if Rhodesia did not accept his plan for transition to majority black rule. 
Kissinger made the statement to reporters on the doorstep of N. 10 Downing Street. where he went immediately to give Prime Minister James Callaghan and Foreign Sec­rctan Anthom· Crosland a report on hi'> ses.,ions with Rhodesian l'rilllL' l'vlini'>ter Ian Smith. Prime Mini'>!LT .John Vorster of South Africa and the black leaders of Tant.ania. Zambia. Kenya and ZairL'. 
He will urge Britain to press for a Rhodesian constitutional settle­ment if Smith's government ac­cepts black majority rule in the breakaway British colony. 
Kissinger wound up his African trip with talks with Kenyan Presi-

On majority rule 

dent Jomo Kenyatta, then told reporters. he was leaving Africa with "a warm feeling and a sense of hope." 
The success of the secretary's attempt to persuade Rhodesian whites to accept black majority rule hinged on Smith's success in persuading diehards of his all­white Rhodesian Front party that the time for change has arrived. 
Smith met with the party's SO members of parliament -a 75 percent majority in the 66-seat body -for several hours yesterday. He said the caucus had decided on whether it would accept Kissin­ger's proposals but the decision would not be revealed until his radio and television address to­night. 
The secretary of state was to brief Callaghan and Crosland on his African negotiations because under the plan he is pushing for, majority rule in Rhodesia within two years is essentially a British one. 
The secretary is flying on to Washington today. 
Britain still claims sovereignty over Rhodesia, which. unilaterally declared independence 11 years ago. This would seem to entitle London to convene a constitution­writing conference between the Smith regime and delegates of major black political groups inside and outside the country. 
U.S. officials think it could be, politically disastrous if the British were to permit those talks to grind on for 18 or 24 months. Kissinger IJlay be expected to impress upon Callaghan and Crosland the urgent need for speed in the process ahead -providing Smith's govern­ment agrees to the talks. 
Kissinger's feeling is that the Rhodesian constitutional confer­ence can produce a charter for a black-ruled Rhodesia quickly -in weeks, not months and certainly by the end of the year-if there is good staff work, meticulous preparation and quick-moving diplomacy. 
.This means Britain would have to convene the talks among Rhod­esia's white and black groups and factions as soon as Smith accepts 
Newsmen traveling with Kissin­
the American-British settlement 
ger's party were told that the
terms. The Callaghan government 
secretary also intends pushing to
could issue its call by next week 
get talks on independence for
with negotiations beginning two or 
South-West Africa, or Namibia,
three weeks later -just before the 
going as soon as possible.
U.S. presidential election. 


Crosson honored 
Dr. Frederick J. Crosson, the first O'Hara Professor of Phil­osophy at Notre Dame, will deliver a lecture entitled "Philosophy, Religion and Faith" at 4 p.m. today in the Center for Continuing Ed­ucation auditorium. He will then be honored at a dinner held in· the Morris Inn tonight. 
The lecture is part of inaugural ceremonies honoring the holder of the John Cardinal O'Hara Chair in Philosophy. The chair commemor­ates the 12th president of Notre Dame, a Holy Cross priest who served from 1934 to 1940. 
Crosson was the first lay dean of the University's College of Arts and Letters, a position he held for seven years before returning to teaching in 1975. A specialist in phenomenology and existentialism, he earned his doctorate at Notre Dame and has been a member of its faculty since 1953. Crosson was chairman of the General Program of Liberal Studies for four years and he also served as associate director of the Institute for the Philosophic Study of Artificial In­telligence. 
He is editor of The Reyiew off Politics, a quarterly published by the University. As holder of the O'Hara Chair, he directs the De­partment of Philosophy's newly established Center for the Phil­osophy of Religion. Crosson's inaugural lecture is also part of the Center's first conference, being held Sept. 23-25 at Notre Dame. 
SALISBURY, Rhodesia [AP] 
Prime Minister Ian Smith will tell the nation today whether his w!lite minority governme_nt will yield to international pressure andhandover power to Rhodesia's black majority under a plan pushed by Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger. 

Smith said his ruling all-white Rhodesian Front party decided at a meeting yesterday whether it will accept the proposals for transition to majority rule made by Kissinger in meetings with Smith last week. But he said the deCision will not be revealed until his radio and tele­vision address tonight. 
''It will be a clear and positive and unequivocal statement. there will be no doubt in anybody's minds." Smith said after meeting for five hours with the SO Rhodes­ian Front members of parliament. 
Informed sources close to the party said the caucus accepted the proposals put to them b.f Smith. But there was no indication if they were the same as those made by Kissinger at their meeting in Pretoria, South Af.rica. 
Smith reportedly told Kissinger 


Rhodesian decision expected 
Rhodesian troops claim to have 
The killed 1,609 guerrillas iri the last four years while losing 163 sol­White diers. The deaths of 508 civilians, including 42 whites, since Decem­
.House

ber 1972 have been on the guerril­las. The details of the plan to obtain Inn majority rule in Rhodesia and avoid 
he would recommend approval of the plan. However, he must also win agreement from the Rhodesian Front. 
The party has a 75 percent majority in the 66-seat parliament. it rejected two earlier British proposals for transfering power from the country's 278,000 whites to its 6.4 million blacks. 
There was "realistic talking from all of the members" at the caucus, Smith told newsmen. "At no time was there any irresponsible talk." Asked if he • might meet with Kissinger again, Smith said, "I don't think that will be necessary. That was never part of any agree­ment." ' · 
The war between black national­ist guerrillas and the Rhodesian government forces continued, meanwhile. Government officials announced Rh,.Jesian security force killed 18 more black national­ist guerrillas, bringing to 27 the number killed in the past five days. 
A communique said three white­owned homesteads were atacked by guerrillas but there were no casualties and only minor damage 
v. as reported. 

escalation of the war have not been made public. However. the proposal is believed to call for a constitu­tional conference of both blacks and whites, with majority rule within two years, a $2 billion fund financed by the United States and· other Western nations to compen­
sate Rhodesian whites who leave the country and to help in future development of Rhodesia; and
guarantees by Rhodesian blacks .____________________.;._________. 
and thetr sponsors in black Africa that the security and interests of Rhodesian whites will be safe­guarded. 
Kissinger received support for the proposals from several black African leaders during his shuttle around Africa, including Presi­dents Kenneth Kaunda of Zambia, Julius Nyerere of Tanzania and Mobutu Sese seko of Zaire. 
/USB to host Polish cultural exhibit 
The Chopin Fine Arts Club is presenting an exhibition at the

f Indiana University South Bend Library summarizing 1000 years of Polish history and culture Sept. 26 through C'ct. 11. The exhibition. titled "Perspek­t~wa Polska" (Poland's Historical Per~pective), features a collection of photographic images of Poland's arts, architecture and her famous men and women. 
I D distribution delayed 
Because of a delay in the processing of the student perma­nent J.D. cards, all student temporary I. D. cards which have an expiration date of Sept. 24 will be honored at all campus facilities, including the library and dining halls, until the permanent cards are distributed. The estimated delay in this distribution is seven to ten days. 
Students who eat in the dining halls are requested to pick up their permanent l.D. cards in the South Dining Hall. All other students are to obtain their l.D.'s from the Registrar's Office. Signs will be posted in both dining halls and published in the Observer inform­ing students of the distribution dates and procedures. 

• • 1 ; j 1. I 6 1 I 
The exhibition has been touring various universities throughout the 
U.S. for almost two years. It was organized for the American Insti­tute qf Polish Culture of Miami, Fla., by George Riabov, art histor­ian. lecturer and authority on Polish art and culture, at the direction of Blanka A. Rosentiel, Institute chairman. 
The exhibition is open to the public at the !USB Library from 8 
a.m. to 10 p.m. Monday through Thursday, 8 a.m. to 5. p.m. on Fridays and Saturdays and 1 p.m. 
to 5 p.m. Sundays. There is no admission charge. 
The preview opening will take place on Sunday, Sept. 26 with a lecture by Riabov at 3 p.m. entitled "One Thousand Years of Polish Arts and Architecture.'' A recep­tion will follow during which Polish specialties such as paczki and kielbasa will be served. A tour of the exhibition will follow the recep­tion. 
An exhibit of Polish books and crafts will also be on display in the library. 
EINS ZWEI GSUFA 



0KTOBERFEST '76 kommt · 
Sponsored by 
SMC Social Commission 
I 1 I I I I I ~ I I I I ~ I , I I ~ , f. I ' I I I I t _f ' ' 
ROCK & ROLL WITH THE BEST BANDS IN THE MIDWEST NITELY (Except Tues) 
THIS WfEK:BRUCE CARR BAND 
The White House Inn . 683-9842 2839 No. 51th St. Niles Take U.S. 31 to Niles, North on 51, 3 miles. 





mbr. 
JSnigl)t~ 
MEN'S HAIRSTYLING
t 


\ · 
HAIRCUT AND BLOW STYLING COM INATION -$8 SO
I "1 

i•) 

----~~---------------­

Next week at SMC 
LSAT prep sessions offered 
by Donna Berndt Staff Reporter 

The St. Mary's Law Society has scheduled three prep sessions next week for the Law Sc_hool Admis­sions Test (LSAT) according to Dr. Sokolowski, associate professor of English and pre-law afdvisor at SMC. Sokolowski said that the sessions' basic goal will be to familiarize students with the nature of the exam in terms of types of questions, directions given, and areas emphasized. 
Mary Pat Butler, publicity chair­man of the Law Society, said that the sessions will begin on Thursday Sept. 30, at 7:30 p.m. in room 245 Made leva. The first session will be presented by an English professor on writing proficiency in order to prepare for the error recognition and sentence correction sections. In addition a mathematics profes­sor will begin the first part of the 
' data interpretation section. The second section is scheduled for Monday. Oct. 4, at 7 p.m. in the same room. After the data interpretation section is completed, 
Coex commission explains program 
by Kate Smelser Staff Reporter 

The Coex program for Notre Dame and St. Mary's will continue, while expandihg to include an exchange lunch program between the North and South Quads, ac­cording to Rick Littlefield, Coex commissioner with Barb Frye. 
Coex ticketsare available from 9 

a.m. to :, p.m., Monday through Friday, in the student government office. There are 75 tickets provided for each night with a limit of two tickets per person. They may be used any· night of the week except Saturday, St. Mary's regu-

Sondej praises efforts of ND Hunger Coalition 
by Mike Lewis Staff Reporter 

Speaking at an organizational meeting of the World Hunger Coalition 'last night, AI Sondej said he is "proud of what is happening at Notre Dame." 
Sondej praised the student coop­eration at ND, and stressed the importance of the coalition's con­tinued efforts here. He reported that he will soon leave the campus to continue his work at over thirty schools throughout the lJ .S. 
Sondej has spent the last few weeks at the campuses of Mar­quette, Emporia State and St. 
· Benedictine, continuing the work he started at Notre Dame. He predicted that there is "a very good possibility" that the Coalition's work will spread to these schools. 
•'There are things I think that we can .do economically and politically at the grass roots level to help the poor. Hopefully the dining hall program can incorporate these types of responses," commented Sondej. 
Jack D' Aurora, coordinator of campus collections. opened the meeting with general comments about the World Hunger Coalition. 
"The main purpose of the coali­tion is education," explained D' Aurora, who emphasized the 
-need for students to know "where their money goes." 
According to D' Aurora, the coali­tion has researched several chari­table organizations carefully. The money the coalition raises will go to CARE, UNICEF, the Catholic Re­lief Services and other agencies. 
These groups donate over 90 percent of their funds di~ectly to the poor. The remainder is spent on educational· and administrative ex­penses. 
an attorney will begin to talk about the correct approach for the princi­ples and cases section. This section will be completed at the last session, scheduled for Thrusday, Oct. 7, at 7:30 p.m. 
Sokolowski said that the reading comprehension and reading recall sections will not be reviewed as it is something learned throughout one's education rather than pre­pared for. 
Butler said the LSAT prep ses­sions will be open to all Law Society members as well as any other interested students. She encour­aged freshman, s-ophomores and juniors to attend this session in addition to the session offered in the Spring. Butler requested a $5.00 donation from non-Law So­ciety members to help defray costs. She added that the LSAT Prep Book (Simon & Schuster) used for these sessions, will be available in the St. Mary's B ookstore next week.· 
The LSAT is a half-day examina­tion that is as an admission requ-irement at mo~t American law schools. This examinition is of­fered at Notre Dame on Oct. 9 and 
Jar steak night, or on a Notre Dame steak night. Tickets are valid for only one day after they are ac­quired. 
These limits were imposed when the commission found that many students were taking Coex tickets without using \them, thus de­priving other students of the visit another dining hall. Any student who needs Coex tickets on a regular basis, however, may arrange with Littlefield to receive them in a larger quantity. 

The Coex commission's newest program is the North-South Lunch Exchange. Under this plan students can have lunch in the dining hall to which they are not regularly as-
In addition,• most countrtes that receive. this aid have a matchingfund program. For the amount of aid received by a nation, an equal amount will be contributed by that government. ' 
Turning the meeting to the problems the collectors encounter, 
D' Aurora urged the collectors to ''instill a little concern in people'shearts." 

He also urged the collectors notr-h;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;___;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~====================:::::::::::::::::=~
to pressure the students and to "make it as easy as possible for them to share in our concern." He reminded the workers to always thank contributors for donations. 
The meeting also outlined the procedure for collecting, and dis­cussed the slogans and signs the coalition will use. 
Nazz to present 

theater, music 
Theatre and music highlight Nazz activities this weekend. The ND-SMC Lab Theatre will present two short plays: "Santa Claus". by 
E.E. Cummings and "The Love­liest Afternoon of the Year'', by John Guare. The plays, directed by Michael Feord, will begin at IC 
p.m. on both Friday and Saturday nights. 
George Adelle, singer-guitarist, will perform at midnight on Friday, with other singers appearing at 9 
p.m. 
and 11 p.m. On Saturday Dave Shaheen will perform at 9 

p.m. 
followed by ,Jack Kelliher and John Steinman at 11 p.m. and 12 midnight respectively. The Nazz is located in the basement of LaFor­tune and admission is free. 



Dec. 4 of 1976, and Feb. 5 and April 16 of 1977. The examination covers the areas of reading compre­hension, reading recall, data intre­pretation, principles and cases, error recognition, and sentence correction. 
Cindy Raccuglia, president ofthe Law Society, said, "the Law So­ciety hopes to build the students confidence in approaching the exam. The prep sessions offer a minimal amount of preparation from materials available to any student. We are doing the sessions merely as a service activity." she added, "the Law Society is most grateful to the speakers who have graciously donated their time." 
Sokolowski further emphasized that the exam changes from year and that there is no guarantee that the student attending the sessions will score well. She added, "the Law Society had not intended to run the prep sessions but instituted them at the request of numerous students.'' 
"A good night sleep, a clear mind, and no sense of panic will be the best preparation for the LSAT'', Solowski said. 
TH.E OUTPOST ANNOUNCES ITS 
1st Annual 






Ski-Free Sale 


Ski Free With The Savings You Get At This Sale 
SATURDAY SEPT 25 
Reg. Now
SKIS Reg. Now t;LOTHING Reg. Now 
125.00 Hot Dog Vest ' 32.50 25.00 ,:::_::::..::::...!..:lt-
Rossignol Carrera II 55.00 37.50 
210 00 1::·: Selected Roffe Parkas. 30% off
Rossignol Roc Comps 55.00 44.00
• • Warm Up Pants 30.00 19.00
Rossignol Smash 
175.00 149.95' Obermeyer Sweaters 42.00 26.-30. 
CCESSOR!ES 

SKI PACKAGES 
Ski Hats 5.-8. 
Beginner . Carrera II, Caber Lancer 
PRE-SEASON

Salomon 202, Barrecratter Pole: 
Intermediate . K2 202, Scott Poles:. 
MANY MORE ITEMS 

signed. Twenty-five lunch exchange tickets are available every day from the student government office. 
The lunch \program was started last year. According to Littlefield statistics show that on an average day only six of seven sudents took advantage of the exchange plan. 
Littlefield added, "If we improve the lunch program can be suc­cessful, we may be able to initiate a dinner exchange program.'' Cur­rently, students who wish to try dining on another quad may call Ed Price, Director of Food Services two or three days in advance, specifying which night they wish to exchange and how many students wiii be in their party. 
Students with suggestions or opinions on the Coex programs are encouraged to call Littlefield at 272-0979. 
NEED TYPING? EXECUTARY INC. 
Professional Typing ServiCe 
Resumes, Term Papers, Manuscripts, dissertations Downtown South Bend 
across from the tourt House. 
232-0898 
SKI TUNE -UP

231.00 179.95 
222, Salomon 
SPECIAL 

219.00.199.00 
Hot wax, Edges sharpened,I Bindings checked, regular)) $12.00 now onlJ $6.95. 
~Tr~ 
MORE

~ 100 CCNTEA ~ 
ITEMS

'~ ~~.~~~~~VIDIIItJ'I ~ 
Protest can take many forms as these NO students dramatize the inconvenience -not to mention the chilliness -of the ne\\ laundry pick-up. (Photo by Jim Hofman.) 

.~8vfAGICPLVTE­
w DAY -9:15 SAT. SUN.1:45-4:1_5-6:50-9:30 
Special Fri. and Sat.-Midnite Shows! RUTH

HAROLD ~· 
GORDON BUDCORT
and 
REDUCED 
* 

PRICE 

Boot Trees 8.95 6.95 Raichle Goggles 8.95 6.50 Mirrored Sunclasses 6.00 3.00 
MANY 


*The Observer 
_ an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Business Manager Tom Fronczak Advertising Manager Mike Miller F:JOto Editor Tony Chifari Production Manager Martha L. ~="anning 
O'Reiley Fetishist? 

Dear Editor: 
I see from his reply to my letter that Tim O'Reiley feels as strongly ever about waitresses' bodies. What can I say? We all have our fetishes. 
What I can say though, is that 

The Observer failed me not in being inaccurate. In my letter of inquiry as to the importance of a waitress's weight to a restaurant review, I did not use the word sexism, imply it, nor charge the reporter with it, yet my letter was headlined so. Now, I would like to charge Mr. O'Reiley with sexism by way of the old double standard. He said the waitresses at the Boar's Head were an improvement over the "tan­kers" at Holly's Landing. What about the physique of the waiters? 
That, Mr. Culinary Critic, sounds like sexism to me. As for your dinner invitation, what are your measurements?
. 
Mary Kane 

(Editor's note: Mr. O'Reiley wants to know which measurements you want.) 
Leave Abortion to Individual 

Dear Editor: 
The presidential candidates have announced their stands on abortion but I don't think it will make much difference in this election. Presi­dent Ford is personally strong against abortion but the Republi­can platform doesn't take a strong stand against it. Carter is personal­ly against abortion but the Demo­cratic platform doesn't take a 
by Garry Trudeau 
THANK YO~ 

5/R. MR.>-OFCOURS&. fLIP. FLIP, FLIP, CAR:Tf3R?'-BASICALLY, I Fl.lf'. .. ANO FLIP. 
FLOP. I

::J 8£LJ£V/3.. FLIP FLIP-FL./PI Ft/P, 
HAV& AL!IJAY5
FUP, FL./PI

..c SAIOFLOP 
{/) ! / r
/
(J) 
c:: 
0 
0 
0 

opinio n !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
· Phone•(219)283-8661 [ND] (219)284-5365 [SMC) 

Revive Hall
\ ' 

EDITORIAl BOARD 
Thomas O'Neil Dan Sanchez Chris Smith Gregg Bangs Val Zurblis Pat Hanifin Bob Mader Maureen Flynn Marti Hogan 
Don Reimer Tim O'Reiley FrPd Herbst 

Will this turkey go to
line and lead paragraph, neces­sitates that the Irish players get 
heaven? Write for the
equal coverage. If ever the Notre Dame women 
editorial page and join in
sports writers were accused of being biased, this certainly is the 
. the great controversies of
worst-.-headline and article. EUeen O'Grady 
the age.
ND Women's Sports Editor 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor 

J~Boards 
Asst. Managing Ed. Executive Editor Executive Editor 

tom byrne
Editorial Editor 
One of the principal goals stated
Exec. News Editor 
during SBP Mike Gassman's cam­
Campus Editor 
paign last year was the creation of 
St. Mary's Editor 
an improved system of hall Judicial 
Copy Editf,r. 
Boards. With that aim in mind, 
Features Editor 
Judicial Coordinator Bob Bode has 

Sports Editor recently begun the difficult task of reviving the j-boards. Bode's ad­suddenly move off-campus. Not all rectors employ their authority in such a manner, but each rn'i sufficient discretion to do so, a reality which is in need of change. 
Stricter regulation of the rector's power imposed from the Office of Student Affairs would have the undesirable effect of damaging the individual character of each hall. There is a better way to accomplish this aim, from within the hall, by modifying the concept of the judicial board. 
One such arrangement would be a board of nine equal persons, six students and three members of the hall staff, including the rector. Each member would have an equal vote, and possibly the option, along with the accused, of appealing the decision to the Dean of Students. Since all rectors are at least relatively reasonable, the fre­quency of such appeals by board members would likely be very rare. The jurisdiction of this type of j-board would be all violations of the hall order. 
By making the rector a member of the board, with an equal vote, an effective limitation on any arbitrary use of authority would be achieved. The role of the rector in the hall, however, would not be reduced but rather enhanced by this type of arrangement, as it creates an environment that encourages gen­uine respect for his position. The hall itself -might become more cohesive as a consequence of having a representative body re­sponsible for its own discipline. 
The goal of any judicial board should be to create an atmosphere of self-discipline within the hall that will alert each resident to the responsibility he must accept as a member of the community. The present disciplinary situation, in­cluding the j-boards, does little to accomplish this end, and is at times ridiculously juvenile. While it does serve to maintain order within the halls. the tactics used also promot"e resentment and immaturity. Hall staff members and students often seem to be antagonists in a relationship similar to guards and prisoners in an academic peni-· te11tiary. Administrators subse­quently point to resultant immature behavior by students as proof that they cannot accept greater respon­sibility. Such warped roles are not inevitable, but will endure as long as the present state of the halls continues. 
University officials are fond of speaking about the personal re­sponsibilities each student must grasp, but discourage such a­chievement with a deluge of rules. Rectors emphasize similar respon­sibilities within the hall, but must force them on the residents with even more rules. Reform of the hall judicial boards will not reverse these policies, but it is one of the 
· most feasible places to start. 
Friday, September 24, 1976 

u STEP RIGHT UP FOLKS ,. AND GET A BOTTLE OF JIMMY'S SNAKE Ofl­YOURS FOR ONLY ONE THIN VOTE ! " 




P. 0. Box'Q 
mirable efforts, however, might be 

, best prefaced by a consideration of the current concept of the judicial board, and with the question: Is it worthwhile? The hall judicial boards stood last year in most halls" as simply a charade, providing little else but an opportunity for pre-law students to sharpen their command of legal jargon. They lie in this unfortunate state because they currently must exist in the shadow of the rector's primacy, depending on him to determine what cases they receive, how many they will hear, and even whether they will be permitted to function at all. Instead of a con­structive intrahall disciplinary body, they have become a virtual plaything of the rector, which he may reward or punish as he sees fit. A particularly ludicrous twist to this situation is apparent upon examination of University regula­tions outlined in du Lac. They stipulate that "students subject to disciplinary action may choose to have their cases considered by the rector, providing the rector ac­cepts." The code further assigns the hall judicial board all disciplinary matters that the stu­dent does not choose to be heard by the rector. Such an arrangement exists in few halls, and even if it did it is questionable whether this concept is ultimately beneficial. Giving the student this "choice," or an alternative to arbitrary punishment by the rector, is frequently cited as the chief asset of the j-boards. But even this is clearly an illusion, both in theory and in practice. Any maverick board issuing a verdict different from what the rector had in mind has usually guaranteed that it will receive no more cases. And while the rector may not be present at the preceedings, he looms over them, as he must be informed of the verdict .and in several halls, re­
• serves the right to an immediate veto. Thus the accused student has no real "choice," nor any excape from the rector's will, and even if such an alternative was available it would be insigni-ficant. 
It is of course necessary that the rector, as the individual respons­

. ible for what occurs in his hall, has~ top authority. But there is also a need, acute in some halls, to have the power of the rector more clearly defined. It is, for example, within the rector's power to eject a student from the hall at any time that he feels is appropriate. Appeal 
to the Dean of Students is of little solace to a student who' must 

Pro-SMC Bias 

Dear Editor: I am writing in response to the 
Sept.  22  article  and  headline,  
entitled  "St.  Mary's  netters  
trounce  Notre  Dame;  lose  to  

Purdue." • 
In the first place how can St. Mary's "trounce" Notre Dame when they only played four of the 10 Irish players? Secondly, Notre Dame wasn't trounced at all. In fact they were very proud of their second place position in the five team tournament. 
Also, why is it that the article itself made no reference to the Notre Dame players and their matches? This is a joint publication between Notre Dame and St. · Mary's. The mere fact that Notre Dame was mentioned in the head­strong stand against it. The whole issue is ridiculous in judging the candidates b<';cause only the legis­lative branch of governm.ent can pass a constitutional amendment against abortion, not the executive branch. Any constitutional amend­ment must be passed by a two­thirds majority of the Congrc ss and a three-fourths majority of the state legislatures. The president can only try to influence them~ 
On the other hand, abortion is probably the most controversial -issue in the United States since the Civil War. It is one issue that cannot be compromised on. How­ever, there is one big difference between slavery and abortion-­abortion has religious ties whereas slavery didn't. Why should one religious group try to force its 
beliefs on everyone else? 
Legislation for abortion should be made available for those who want it. Granted, as advances are made in birth control methods and people are educated about them unwanted pregnancies will become a thing of the past. But because abortion decisions are based on religious beliefs, they should be left up to the individual involved. 
VaiZurblls 



She was a plain-looking little thing with complexion so pale itneededrouge, yet so poor that cosmetics would have probably enflamed it. Wherever I could see her body--on her ·arms, legs, neck, bosom--the skin looked as though it were about to erupt into rashes for which Noxema has no cure. Her hands, especially, I had to avoid watching, though it is hard to ignore the hands of someone with whom you are drinking coffee and smoking cigarettes. They were sick-looking hands, as though detergents had hated them for years, yet they had been condemned, anyway, to endless dish-washing; the nails were so badly bitten they had nearly disappeared. On her blouse· she was wearing a pin that 
urged: "Boycott Gallo Wine". She wore no jewelry, but every tim~ I ever saw her she was wearing that pin. 
-"The only time Gallo wine was ever advertised on the television during the Democratic convention," she said, "was right after Cesar Chavez's speech. When I callec the network to register a protest, the operator said:' 'I know exactly what you are going to tell me; the switchboard has been deluged with calls." 
Her voice was distinct and deliberate. She pronounced her words as though they were lozenges she was trying to suck.. 
"I'm very alone," she said. "I worry a lot about the grape pickers, but I have no one who cares what happens to me. Sometimes I think to myself: if my brother, whom I can see, hates me and ignores me, how can I possibly believe there is a Father in heaven whom I can't see Who really 
' gives a damn? That's when I try to commit suicide.'' . ­"How many t:imes have you attempted suicide?" I said, trying to sound as casual as though I were inquiring about sexual habits or the frequency of nights spent at the bowling alley. She smiled the shy smile of the · hopelessly incorrigible. "Over at St. Vincent's," she said, "they have me down on record as habitually prone. There have been many attempts in the past three years." . ''Are you really so intent upon dying?'' I said. "I'm never really sure," she said. "Last week, when I tried it, it was tranquillizers I used; I knew they probably wouldn't kill me. I took a bunch of them. Just after 
magnificent meals 


letters to a lonely God 
melchizedek as a terminal case 
that, my shrink, whom I had been trying to reach all day, finally returned my phone ·call. I told him what I had done, and he 
sent an ambulance for me right away.' 
She looked at me, and said again: "If 
my brother, whom I can see, hates me and 
ignores me, how can I possible believe 
there is a Father in heaven, whom I can't 
see Who really cares a damn?" 
I had a feeling that she didn't mean what 
she was saying; that she was just playing a 
game of ''turn-about is fair play'' with the 
texts of Scripture. 

"What happened at the hospital?" I 
said. I couldn't tell her I thought she was 
using God as the scapegoat for her 
loneliness (which was genuine enough) in 
order to discomfit a priest. 

"The bastards," she said. "They gave 
me an emetic to make me throw up. Then 
they sent me home, sick as a dog, I v.as so 
weak I could hardly walk. I had to keep 
sitting down on the curbstone, or else l 
would have fallen down." 

"Where did you get the tranquillizers?" 
I said. I thought it IJiade me sound 
competent to ask questions like that; 
actually, I didn't know what else to say to 
her. 

"From the doctor," she said.· "He 
prescribes them for me. Sometimes I use 
them and sometimes I don't. But I always 
save them, and I always keep asking for 
more. I've gto a couple of hundred 
sleeping pills now. I've got two or three 
hundred tranquillizers." 

"Is there no one," I said, "no friend, no 
family you could turn to?" 

"There was a priest once," she said. 
''He helped me for two and a half years. 
Then one day he left, and he didn't even 
say goodbye. Later, at the church, they 
told me he had gotten married, but he 
never even wrote to tell me." 
"How did he help you?" I said. 
"We used to go off upstate and work on 
a farm that some Catholics ran to help the 
poor," she said. "A couple of times, when 
I overdosed, he came to the hospital, 
brought me home, took away my pills and 
gave me hell. Then, one Christmas, he gave me a Christmas card with a hundred dollars in it. He said he knew I didn't have any money to buy presents with, and he gave me a hundred dollars." 
"Was he a young priest?" I said. 

in indiana: the country ·~tl· 
It is the sort of place that might exemplify the essence of Indiana: nothing fancy or pretentious, but a down-home family business, where the owner wants to shake hands with all his customers. One might expect to find the parking lot filled with tractors and plows, or more patrons wearing overalls. than suits. As a coup-de-grace, The Country Inn is located far enough south on U.S. 31 to be back in farmland, dotting the "i" of the Hoosier haven. 
The dining room itself exudes an open and friendly atmosphere, a perfect en­vironment for a family dinner on Sunday. Also, the retaurant has a separate banquet room for 60, and a small lounge for cocktails, both decorated simply but hos­pitable. (The bar is in the-kitchen, so that those under age can remain legally in the lounge.) . 
As a forerunner to the over thirty s_elections on the menu came a plate of toasted cheese bread( which got a bit cool on the pewter ptate), along whh a basket of crackers and a lively cheese spread. The :;ervice was prompt and always attentive, though delivering the entree a shade before completion of the salad. 
Each dinner includes soup and salad, both of which are executed in fine style. Special guest goumette Valerie M. Zurblis professed great pleasure with her french onion soup, while the creamy bean soup proved equally delectable. The dinner salad that followed was of a mixed lettuce variety, also good. 
Getting down to the main business, fellow food critic Frederick C. Herbst trustingly followed the "Chef's Recom­mendation," the prime ribe at $6.95. Obviously the chef knows his art well; he serves up a slab, not a mere slice, cooked in a way that seducedMr. Herbst's pallette 
by tim o'reiley 
with a torrent of terrific taste. Ac­
companied by a choice of. potato, this 
recommendation, for the price, rat$')s 
among the most magnificent meals in 
Michiana. · 

But no danger awaits in exploring other 
parts of the menu. Mme. Zurblis delved 
into the New York strip, a cut of meat that 
pleased her "most immensely". I tried the 
London Broil, a steak prepared in a rather 
unusual manner: sliced into small strips 
placed on a pile of rice and covered with a 
meat sauce. The tenderness of the steak, 
and the mild sauce, made an overall good 
dish. The potato .I tried, a mix of sliced 
potato and onion, was just a little too heavy 
for a proper side dish. The wine 
(Almenden burgundy), was satisfactory, 
~'-!t could be improved upon. 
Asgoodas the dinner had been thus far, 
if W&s matched by mom's homemade 
cheesecake, a delightful dessert. After 
dinner, we had the pleasure of meeting 
"Mom" Piekarski in the kitchen cooking some more of her crowd-satistying pine­apple and cherry cheesecake, topped with real whipped cream (you can taste the · difference). Happily, she confided that 
she is not about to change her recipe. 
The owner, Dick Piekarski, frets that since his restaurant is so far away, most students never find it. He hopes to arrange special Notre Dame date nights in the future, and we hope he succeeds. In the Country Inn, he has developed a res­taurant, distinguished not only for its fine food, but, as Herbst put it, "the charming ~ervice, from Mr. Piekarski on down." For those who have found nothing but negative things about South Bend arid Indiava, should give the area a chance by trying the Country Inn, a part of the midwest's best traditions. 
Reverend Robert Griffin 
"He was about seven years older than me," she said. "I think he was about thirty-two. But he went off, and he never said goodbye. People had to tell me that he was married." 
"Were you in love with him?" I said. 
"I loved him, but I wasn't in love," she said. "We had good times together, especially at the farm. But I never exp~cted him to marry me, and I didn't want to marry him." 
"Why are you so bitter about him?" I said. 
"He could have said goodbye," she said. "If he had cared anything about me, he could have told me what he was doing. Once, afterwards, I saw him at a prayer meeting, and he didn't even come over and say hello." 
"Maybe," I said, "he was tired. Maybe after two and half years of trying to be strong enough for both of you, he was worn out. If there were other people like yourself he was trying to help, maybe he just over-extended himself.'' 
"What really bothers me," she said, "What really makes me resentful is that he walked out on something I want more than anything else, and they won't even let me have it because I'm a woman. Do you know what I mean?" 
I shook my head. I had no idea what she meant. 
''He was a priest,'' she said. ''He walked off on his priesthood. More than anything else, I want to be a priest, and they won't let me be ordained a priest because I'm a woman.. What he left behind and didn't care about, they won't give me-because I'm not a man." 
"Oh, God," I thought to myself, "Never let me be casual in my attitude toward being ordained. There are so many, men and women alike, who want to be where I 
am, to stand where I stand, when I am 
presiding at the altar. Let me always 
recognize that there is a mystery of 
vocational grace; and in my ordained life, 
let me never take anything for granted." 
She was, as I said before, a plain looking little thing; but she was also a girl you wanted to take home and keep. But I couldn't adopt her, or lock her as godly into a tabernacle for safe-keeping. Instead, I had to send her home to share a lonely room with a couple of hundred sleeping pills and two or three hundred tran­quillizers. I had to send her off on her own to boycott Gallo wine, and to smoke .cigarettes with hands I couldn't bear to look at, and skin and complexion I couldn't stand to touch, without wishing I had the funds to send that scabby little body off to Lourdes. · 
Sometimes, in the evening. I call her, just to remind her there is a brother. whom she can't see because he is seven hundred miles away, who neither hates her nor ignores her. I tell her that when she is blue, she should call me collect. but she never does. She says that what she needs is someoneto be physically close before she gets blue. I can hardly be close to a plain-looking little thing before she gets blue, if I'm in South Bend and she's in New 
York. 

Some evening, she's not going to be there when I call. Where she will be, I can't tell; but'l will remember her track record, and I'll be worried. Worrying as a form of ministry seems very weak. I wonder if she would know of better things to do than worry about me, if she had been ordained as priest, and I were the Christian with sacerdotal longings, down on record at St. Vincent's as a patient habitually prone. 


the week in entertainment 
ON THJ!; TUBE 

Friday, September 24 
Magnum Force (8:00 PM, 22): Clint Eastwood is "Dirty Harry" Callaham once more as he uses his own brutal brand of police work to solve the murder~ of several mobsters who escaped the vengeance of the law. Midnight Special (12:00 PM, 16): The Kingston Trio, the Drifters, Del Shannon, Danny and the Juniors and a gang of other oldies do their stuff. 
Sunday, September 26 
NFL Football (1 :00, 22): The undefeated and awesome Chicago Bears take on the Atlanta Falcons at Soldier Field in Chicago. NFL Football (3:00PM, 16): The Baltimore Colts travel to Irving,. Texas to play the Dallas Cowboys. Earthquake (7:00PM, 16): Camera magic, Sensurround and an all-star cast in a typically' slick and professionally made disaster flick. Watch an hour out of curiosity, but then turn to: Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid (8:00 PM, 28): A very fine modern Western with Paul Newman (ooh) and Robert Redford (ahh). Easy, girls. Director George Roy Hill and Scenarist William Goldman won well-deserved Academy Awards for their fine work on this classic. 
M11nday, September 27 
Monday Night Football (8:00 PM, 28): The Washington Redskins meet (and will probably kill) the Eagles in Philadelphia. Unless the Redskins check into the Bellevue-Stratford and. all catch Legion­naire's Disease, this will probably be a very dull, very one-sided affair. If they do catch Legionnaire's Disease, it could be do~ e. 
Tuesday, September 28 
Happy Days (7:00 PM, 28): Boy, has this show gone down the pipes. The producers have seemingly become overly impressed with their owri success and have assumed 
by dauid o'keefe 
invulnerability. The result as indicated by 
.last week's hour-long episode is a tedious, dull, strained, boorish attempt at humor. Narcissus drowned, and Happy Days is barely keeping its head above water. 
Wednesday, September 29 
Charlie's Angels (9:00PM, 28): I can't go on with the article. I'll be back in a minute. 
ON THE SCREEN 
Engineering Auditorium: Lady Sings the Blues is a very powerful biography of blues singer Billie Holliday. The primary sources of the films power are its willingness to tell the truth, and the strong performance of Diana Ross as Billie. (Tonight and tomor­row night, $1.00). Cinema '77 presents Meet Me In St. Louis, a delightfully idyllic musical, on Tuesday and Wednesday nights. Boiler House 1: Gum Ball Rally Boiler House II: Family Plot Colfax: Mahogany and Lady Sings the Blues River Park: Allee Doesn't Uve Here Any More and Woman Under the Influence Scottsdale: The Shootlst Town and Country 1: Obsession Town and Country II: The Other Side of the· Mountain Forum 1: Monty Python and the Holy Gtall and The Producers Forum II: The Magic Flute 
ON THE ROAD 
The Quickie: Friday Night, leaves Main Circle ND and H.oly Cross SMC every half hour except 10:30 PM, beginning at 8:30 and ending at 12:30. Stops are Kubiak's, Boar's Head, Heidelberg, Shula's, Forum Theaters and Denny's. 50 cents one way, for 75 cents you can ride the rides all night. 
ON STAGE 
Vegetable BuddJes: Big Walter Horton, blues harpist, plays Friday and Saturday nights. (Coincidentally, the first two drinks are half price on those nights.) 
---------------~----~------­
• 
the observer Friday, September 24, 1976
8 

ROTC reports major changes in curriculum 
by Kevin M. Walsh Staff Reporter 

Military officers from the Navy, Air Force, and Army Reserve Officer Training Corps branches at Notre Dame report the significant changes have been implemented in this year's programs. 
In the Navv R.O.T.C. program, according toMajor David Garner he principal change has been the reorganization of the orientation program for new students. In previous years, many of the neces­sary preliminary formalities were incorporated into the first week of classe~. thus slowing down the start of the semester's work. This fall bowever. orientation for new personnel was held a week prior to the university's orientation period, which enabled the prospective oflicers to blend in with upper classmen once normal activities such a~ drills began. 
In addition to such periods of instrudion as drill labs, the orient­ation also included a Human Re­search Management Program in which the Navv's views on such area~ as race ~elations, drug and alcohol abuse, equal opportunity, leadership and management, and overseas diplomacy were explain­ed. ''This early orientation became 
more extensive so that once classes 
started students would be suffic­
iently integrated into the pro­
gram," explained Garner. 

Garner also noted that scholar­
shins awarded to incoming fresh­men this year aimed to recruit more students intending to major in science and engineering than ever before. "The percentage of stu­dents with intents in science and engineering has rised from approx­imately 25 percent a few years ago 
to 75 percent now.'' 

Other new aspects of the Navy 
R.O.T.C. include the formation of a drill team which will compete against the Army R.O.T.C. unit as well as in regional meets, and an increased interest in the rifle and pistol club. 

Storm strikes tall ship 
LONDON [API -The Norwegian sailing ship Christian Radich, returning from the American Bi­centennial Tall Ships celebration in New York harbor, lost some of its 
sailsin a violent storm in the Bay of Biscay yesterday and was drifting helplessly. the Falmouth coast guard. said. 
The training ship had 113 crew and cadets aboard. The coast guard said the ship reported by radio that it also had lost some rigging. 
The Bay of Biscay lies between the southwest coast of France and the north coast of Spain. The ship's exact location was not given. 
The storm was rated by the coast was standing by. 
The coast guard spokesman said the stricken ship's main radio was out of operation and messages were being relayed by the Cate Brovig. He said the sailing ship reported she had lost eight sails and could not put up more until the winds subsided. 
All crewmen and cadets w~re reported well. 
Seniors may buy Michigan St. tix 
The senior class of Notre Dame 
guard as carrying winds between and St. Mary's has a select number 64 and 75 miles per hour. A of Michigan State tickets available hurricane has minimum winds of 75 to seniors only. Descriptions and 
m.p.h. directions to area bars and restaur­
A Falmouth coast guard spokes­ants are included with the ticket. man quoted the crew as saying that Interested seniors should contact if the storm continued the ship AI O'Gorman at 8460, 115 Sorin 
would require assistance. He said Hall. bef?re Tuesday, Sept. 28. The the Norwegian tanker Cate Brovi~;t price of each ticket is seven dollars. 
FRIDAY 5:15­MASSS SUPPER 
A very informal gathering of good people, at Bulla Shed, the Campus Ministry Activities Center, the little green house at the comer of Bulla Rd. and Juniper (in the middle of the block, across from Grace Tower and the Ubrary). 
Everyone welcome -new students · especially! 

The awarding of s~;holarships has been a major area of renovation in the Air Force R.O.T.C. program. Captain George Finan, asst. pro­fessor of Aeorspace Studies , dis­closed that the number of four year 
scholarships  has  decreased  this  
year.  This  policy  change  was  
implemented  to  familiarize  stu­ 

dents with the program before granting them a scholarship. 
Students majoring in chemistry or chemical engineering are, for the first time, being offered schol­arships for three years. Previously most Air Force scholarships were awarded to those intended to be pilots, but Colonel Norman Muller, chairman of the department of Aerospace Studies stated that the Air Force has had an overabun­dance of pilots since the end of the 
There has also been a surge in interest in the Arnold Air Society, a social organization which performs services to the local community. and in the rejuvenation of the Angel flight Program, an organi­zation of female cadets similar to the Arnold Air Society. 
Plans are also being made this year to bring cadets to Grissom Air Force Base near Indianapolis to observe operations and to Patrick Air Force Base in Texas to view the · launching of a NATO satellite. 
The three year scholarship pro­gram was also adopted by the Army ROTC this fall. "Last year, said Lt. Colonel James Musselman, the Army gave out 1200 four year scholarships. this year, however, only 750 four year scholarships were awarded, while the remainder were for three years." 
There has also been an increase in the number of women who received scholarships. Out of the 58 freshmen in Army ROTC, nine are women. This figure is seven per­cent higher than the national collegiate average. In fact, appli­cations for Notre Dame's Army ROTC program ~~have increased 20 percent over ,each of the last three years. In total, this year's Army ROTC program has more members (124) than any other school in the nation, with the next closest school having 74 in its ROTC program. 
Another new Army ROTC pro­gram allows veterans who are now college freshmen to join ROTC as a junior. Similarly, students who participate in their high school's junior ROTC program can start in college with credit equivalent to two years in ROTC. or wait until their junior year of college and then join the program. • 
"The purpose of the Army ROTC program," said Musselman, "is to have a pool of officers that can be tapped in case of a national emergency.'' 


UNITED STATES READING LAB OFFERS SPEED READING COURSE AT NOTRE DAME 
United States Reading Lab will offer a 4 
week course in speed reading to a limited 
number of qualified people at Notre 
Dame. 
This recently developed method of instruction is the most innovative and ef­fective program available in the United States. 
Not only does this famous course reduce your time in the classroom to just one class per week for 4 short weeks but it also includes an advanced speed reading course on cassette tape so that you can continue to improve for the rest of your life. In just 4 weeks the average student should be reading 4-5 times faster. In a few months some students are reading 20-30 times faster attaining speeds that approach 6000 words per minute. In rare instances speeds of up to 13,000 wpm. have been documented. 
Our average graduate should read 7-10 times faster upon completion of the course with marked improvement in comprehension and concentration. 
For those who would like additional 
information, a series of free, one hour, 
orientation lectures have been schedules. 
At these free lectures the course will be 
explained in complete detail, including 
classroom procedures, instruction meth­
ods, class schedule and a special 1 time 
only introductory tuition that is less than 
one-half the cost of similar courses. You 
must attend any of the free meetings for 
information about Notre Dame classes. 
These orientations are open to the 
public, above age 14 (persons under 18 
shou!d be accompanied by a parent if 
possible). 
If you have always wanted to be a speed reader but found the cost prohibi­tive or the course too time consuming ... now you can! Just by attending 1 evening per week for 4 short weeks you can read 7 to 10 times faster, concentrate better and comprehend more. 
'­

If you are a student who would like to make A's instead of B's or C's or if you are a business person who wants to stay abreast of today's everchanging acceler­ating world then this course is an absolute necessity. 
These free special one-hour lectures-will be held at the following times and 
places. 

NOTRE DAME MEETINGS 
Tuesday: Sept. 21, at 6:30 p.m. and again at 8 :30 p~ m. Wednesday: Sept. 22, at 6:30 p.m. and again at 8 :30 p.m. 
Thursday: Sept. 23, at 6:30 p.m. and 
again at 8:30p.m. Friday: Sept. 24, at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. 
Sunday: Sept. 26, at 2:30p.m. and again 
at 5:30p.m. Monday: Sept. 27, at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. 
TW 0 FINAL MEETINGS 
Tuesday: Sept. 28, at 6:30 p.m. and again at 8 :30 p.m. 
THESE'MEETINGS WILL &E HELD AT NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR CONTIN­UING EDUCATION 
If you are a businessman, student, housewife or executive this couse, which took 5 years of intensive research to devElop, is a must. You can read 7 -10 times faster, comprehend more, concen­trate better, and remember longer. , Students are offered and additional discount. This course can be taught to tindustry or civic groups at "Group ratesM upon request. Be sure to attend whichever free orientation that fits best in your schedule. 

-~ 

Friday, September 24, 1976 9 
j 
l 
ND women lose 
bJ Mo Flynn Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame field hockey team dropped its second game of the season yesterday to Goshen College. Despite the 2-0 loss, team member Mary James said the team had ··a lot of good attacks'' and ''a lot more shots on goal'' than they had against Northern Illinois Tues­day. 
Barb Krieder scored for Goshen in the first half. and Doreen Bieber put one past Irish goalie Mary Hums in the second half for the 2-0 win. 
The Irish will participate in a three-wav round-robin with DePaul and Kalamazoo tomorrow on Car­tier Field. the ND-DePaul game is set for 11 a.m. and the ND · Kalamazoo mate-up will be at 4 p.ri1. The two visiting teams will play each other at 2 p.m. 
Notices 
Will teach flute in your spare time. Call Beth . 8112 tor more into. 
Friends. Domers, and countrymen: Anybody interested in helping Mike Howlett tor a ittle while before the Northwestern Game, call Pat 8403. 
Morrissey Loan Fund $20 -150, 1 day wait. 1 percent interest due in 30 days. Lafortune basement. M. F ll :15. 12:15. 
Free kittens, 3 mos. old. Phone 272-2520 after 3 p.m. 
Notice. Opie, this is not a personal. but sometime before you leave Notre Dame, maybe someone will put one in for you. Maybe. 
The Senior Class announces that auditions are now being held for the (bikini-clad) naked klunkeress for the final home games. Apply 1650.
_........___ ____________ _ 
Accurate, Fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-07 46. 
For Rent 
GaraCJe tor rent. Call after 9. 
287-5-718. 
Lost and Found 
Lost: One black wallet last week in eitherO'Shag or Haggar Hall. Need important into. Please call 288.727 6 
Lost: Mana'lerial Econ., Data processing and-Plato books outside cashiers office on Wednesda¥. Call Dave, 234-8611. 
Light blue pullover sweater with desinns on front. In vicinity of statfum. Call. Linda 4-4489, SMC. 
One brown address book. Call Gregg at 1683. 
A woman's watch in the ACC parking lot. Call Mary at 6179 to identify. 
1 girls pearl ring. Washington Hall stage. Identify and it's yours. Call Ed. 234-7967. 
Gold hoop earring; Sat. night at parties or bars. Great sentimental value. Please call. 4255.. 
Clear and black lighter with fish hook at Jungle Jim's birthday party. If found call Harsh at 8212. Great 
sentimental value. 


Sports .Shorts 
COLUMBIA, S.C. (AP) · Frank McGuire, basketball coach at South Carolina who was hospitalized Wednesday with a bleeding ulcer, was reported much improved Thursday. a school spokesman said. 
McGuire, 60, pecame ill while making a speech to a civic club. 
****** 
SEATTLE (AP) ·The Hawaii franchise in World Team Tennis will be moved to the Pacific Northwest next season, Leis' majority owner Don Kelleher announced Thursday. 
Kelleher said the Leis' 1977 schedule of 22 home matches will be divided equally between Seattle and Portland. The team office will be in Seattle. ,.. 
No players have been signed. The Leis finished last season with IIi Nastase, Owen Davidson, Margaret Court, Nancy Gunter and Helen Gourlay. All are on the team's protected list. 
****** 
BUFFALO (AP) · The Buffalo Bills of the National Football League said Thursday that safety Tim Anderson had been placed on injured reserve list because of a thigh injury suffered against the Houston Oilers Sunday. 
****** 
NEW YORK (AP) -ABC-TV announced Thursday that the UCLA-Ohio State college football game of Saturday, Oct. 2 will be televised nationally. 
The kickoff in Columbus, Ohio, will be 1:50 p.m. EDT with air time 20 minutes earlier. 
"Due to the attractiveness of the UCLA-Ohio State game, featuring the nation's No. 2 and No. 5 ranked teams in addition to the rematch of the Rose Bowl, we've decided to televise the game nationally," said Jim Spence, vice president of programming for ABC Sports. 
****** 
TAIPEI (AP) -The taller and faster Georgetown University basketball team beat the Lung Kung retired servicemen's team 78-66 in its opening game here Thursday night. 
The Americans and the Taiwanese fought to a 38-38 tie in the first half. Top scorers for Georgetown were Steve Martin with I 6 points and Larry Long with 14. The Georgetown squad arrived Wednesday for an eight-game series. 
****** 
TAIPEI (AP) · Dave Crutcher pitched a three-hitter and Mark Naehring drove in five runs Thursday to lead the United States to a 7-0 triumph over Nicaragua in an international baseball tourna­ment. 
In other second-round games Thursday. Japan ovem heImed the 
Philippines  2-0  in  seven  innings  and  South· Korea  stopped  
Nationalist China 8-0.  
******  

OPELIKA, Ala (AP) -Mike Henley, a running back on Auburn University's football team, has been indicted by a grand jury on two counts of selling marijuana. 
The Lee County grand jury returned the indictment Wednesday. Henley was released on $2,500 bond on each count. His trial has been set for Oct. 11. 
Henley, a senior from Oxford, Ala .. has been one of Auburn's outstanding running backs. Coach Doug Barfield was unavailable for comment, but a spokesman in the sports information office said no decision has been made on whether Henley will remain on the squad. 
****** 
NEW YORK (AP) · Major league baseball has established an all-time attendance record, it was announced Thursday. 
The 1976 total through games of Thursday had reached 30,109,174 passing the record of 30, I 08,926 which was set in 1973. Last 'year's tot-al was 29,789,916, the only year in the last four 
when baseball attendance has missed the 30 million mark. 

hi'lh school ring--says Benet Academy. Red stone, yellow gold settinf1, 1974 rin[l, initials P.A.R. 1 St. Mary's class ring, traditional diamond chip, 11978 ring, initials, 
P.A.R. B.A. antiqued gold setting. They were lost somewhere between Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
1 pair gold rim glasses at Armory Friday, (9-17-76). If found please contact John 2,83-3828. 
No-I haven't found my glasses! I just couldn't find the Observer office to put in another classified! Please find clear framed glasses lost in vicinity of bars. $25 reward. Call Tom at 289-0114. 
Wanted 
Need 4 Orenon tix. Can be 2 and 2. No thieves need call. Call 288-5667. 
Ideal part-time employment. School year, 10:30. 3 p.m. Mon. thru Fri. St. Mary's College Food Service. Call 284-4011 for appointment. Equal Opportunity employer. M-F. 
Ride to Michinan St., Oct. 1 or 2. Will share expenses. Carol 7834. 
Needed: 2 or 4 GA Orenon tix. Call Steve 287-6058. ­
Need 2 Oregon tix. Will pay $$$. Call Steve at 287~6823. 
Part-lime work; telephone ticket sales. Evenings and Saturdays. Pleasant working conditions. Salary & bonus. Call 237-1976. Mr. Richardson. 
Need 2 or 4 GA Oregon tickets. Call Mark 1473. 
Aggresive gentleman to help gen­eral manager part-time. Will trade salary for room and board. Call 272-7522 tor interview. 
Need 4 Orenon tickets. Must be together. Call Dave 8528. 
Need ride to Dayton or Columbus any weekend. Call Jan 4037. 
Needed: 3 GA Oregon tickets. Call Pat at 3683. 
aged, but alive bicycle. Jean 1292. 
Need 2 GA Bama Tixs. desperately. Call 1785. 
Desparately need ride to Columbus Ohio weekend of Oct. 9. Call Gary 1785. 

ossified Ads 
Go West!! In search of Oregon tickets. Call Gregg at 1650. 
Help! Need 2 or 4 GA Miami tix. 
Call Mary 4694. 
Girl seeks housing urgently. Prefers seperate room. Call Annalisa, 6584. 
Need ride to Madison, Wis. Firday, 24 Sept. 76. 8982. 
Typing wanted: picked up and delivered, reasonable. Diane 683-7759. 
Wanted: used typewriter, manual or dexterious. Led 1650. 
Pizza delivery help wanted with car. 
Fat Wally's. 2046 S. B. Ave. 
Waitresses wanted. Must be 21. 
Apply 4-7 S.B. Ave.  p.m.  Fat Wally's.  2046  
For Sale  
For  sale,  3  pc.  bedroom  set.  

Includes 4 drawer chest. 6 drawer dresser with mirrow. Foot Board and Head Board. Call 272-2520 after 3 p.m. 
New London Lake Condominium. 2 bedrooms, den, 2 car garage. $33,900. Sandy Stroes 272-7750 or 272-2696. 
12 string Giannini guitar. As-king $90 will talk . swap tor a 6 string (steel) of comparable value. Call Bill 8795. 
Rugby jersey rugby jersey rugby jersey exactly like bookstore. Our price, $11.00 Great Midwest T Co. 289-5941. 
Directors chairs, personalized all color & finishes. $22.50. Great Midwest t co. 289-5941. 
2 tix for Northwestern game. 40 yard line seats. Call Terry 1521. 
Factory sealed Maxell UP-XL 90 min. cassette tapes. $4.75. Call 1182. 
For Sale: two transaud io speakers, brand new. 27 inch high, walnut cabinets. $175 for both. Call Pat 3059. 
1972 Honda 450 excellent condition, cash or trade for car. Call Charlie, 277-0692 after 6 p.m. 
62 Mercedes 220. 4 dr., stereo, radials, fine condition. $1100. 287-7693. 
I 
l 
1 
l 
j 
I 
1 
l 
1 
j j l 
l 
l 4 
~ 
.. 

I
I 
Children's poisoning could be 



prevented by parental 

I I I 

observation 

I t 
by Rolinda B. Baker Pacific News Service 

Sunday mornings, while adults sleep late or lie in bed with the newspaper, small children roam their homes looking for something to do or eah Every week, many of them eat poison. 
When Dr. Howard C. Mofenson, director of the Poison Control Center of Nassau County Medical Center in New York, recently surveyed 119 hospitals throughout the country he found Sunday morning to be one of the busiest times in the emergency room. Children who ingested poison, he discovered, often did so while their parents slept. 
Dr. Mofenson also found other poison hours. Between 4 pm and 6 pm the poison control centers could predict visits from distraught par­ents and their too curious children. The fatigue of the day, the rush to prepare dinner and finish house­hold chores, left children unsuper­vised. The same hunger that enables a child to eat a good dinner also contributes to his search for "food". 
Common items found in most 
homes are among the 10 top 
sources of poisoning, according to 
Dr. Allen B. Coleman of the 
subcommittee on accidental poi-• 
sonings of the American Academy 
of Pediatrics. -Aspirin, furniture polish, bleach, 
thyroid tablets and birth control 
pills lead the list of hazards. The 
old standby from medical and 
prenatal clinics, the iron pill, may 
be a killer. 
Plants can be another source of 
danger. Though a child may not 
eat the daisies, other plants may 
look good enough to eat andbe 
dangerous enough to kill. Elephant 
ear, poinsettia, mistletoe, caladium 
(a type of potted plant) and castor 
bean can be lethal decorations. 
Dr. Mofenson and the American 
Red Cross recommend: 
Keep crackers and cookies read­
ily available to discourage forag­
ing. For those sunday mornings, 
put dry cereal in a bowl on the 
kitchen table the night before and 
explain to the child that he or she 
will find a snack on the table in the morning. 
Make purses off limits at all times. A nurse explains, "We get a lot of emergencies in the middle of the morning, too. Mothers may be visiting friends. The child plays with the contents of mommy's purse. He finds medication to play with, and eat." 
Put dangerous products and cleaning materials on high shelves or in locked cupboards--not food shelves. 
Flush unused medicines and poisons down the toilet. 
Never call medicine "candy". Keep it in a locked cabinet. Stress that only mommy or daddy can give it. 
Purchase cleaning materials in "child proof" containers. Though they are not really child-proof, since children can chew off lids, most children don't have the dexterity to open them in the usual manner. 
Caution the child not to eat any 
part of any plant unless you give it. 
Keep jewelry made from impor­ted seeds or plants locked up. Make a special effort to super­
· vise your child when either of you is tired, rushed or hungry. Keep an emitic (something to induce vomiting) in the house. Only induce vomiting if the child is conscious and has not swallowed a petroleum product, acid or alkali like bleach or liquid plumber. After you've given the emitic, hold the child on your lap on his or her stomach with the head down. There are several emitics you can keep in your home. For children over one year old, Dr. Mofenson recommends syrup of ipecac, four teaspoons with enough water to fill the child's stomach. The universal antedote, one part strong tea, one part milk of magnesia and two parts burned toast, makes a visit to the drug store unnecessary. An­other good remedy is one to three teaspoons (.)f powdered mustard in a glass of lukewarm water. If your child does swallow a dangerous substance. call the local poison control center, usually lo­cated at the county hospital. Ifthey recommend bringing the child to the emergency room, bring the poison container with you. 
I 
I ~ 



Crime rate rises 3 percent in first six months 
by Margaret Gentry Associated Press Writer 

t 
WASHINGTON (AP) · An increase 10 thett pusned tile nation's crime rate up three p1-rcent dunng th1· tirst six months of this year, compared with the same oeriod a year ago, the FBI reported yester­day. 
Although the six other crime categories declined, an 1 I percent surge in thefts was 1 :Jough to produce an over-all increase in the crimes measure by the FBI's Uniform Crime Reports. 

Thefts were up in cities, suburbs and rural areas alike and in a.I parts of the country. 
Theft 1 figures are based on crimes reported to 9,160 state and local police agencies. Other studies have shown that the number of crimes actually committed far ex­ceeds the number reported to police. 
Atty. Gen. Edward H. Levi noted that the 3 percent overall increase was much less than the 13 percent boost reported for the first half of 1975, compared with the previous year. 
He called the trend encouraging but said, "there remains a net increase in serious crime· -a dear reminder that all segments ot the criminal justice system must con­tinue working to solve the prob­lem." 
Retracts Playboy interview 
Carter apologizes to Lady Bird 
AUSTIN Tex .. [AP]· Jimmy Carter the Democratic presidential nom­inee. has apologized to Mrs. Lyn­don B. Johnson for comments he made about the late president in an interview with Playboy magazine. 

Carter. in an interview that will appear in Playboy's November issue, was quoted as saying, " ... 1 don't think I would ever take on the same frame of mind that former President Richard M. Nixon or Johnson did -lying. cheating and distorting the truth ... " 
Jody Powell. the candidate's press secretary, said Carter tele­phoned Lady Bird Johnson on Wednesday "to express his regrets about the story and in particular that implicating that he considered Nixon and Johnson were in the s;1me category.'' 
Powell said Carter was not making excuses for the statement, but apologizing for it. He said Carter was trying in the interview to point otlf-"we all have our shortcomings and because of that we ought not to judge others too harshly for their mistakes. 
''And I am sure his hope was that Mrs. Johnson would accept his regrets and apology in that spirit,'' Powell said. 
Mrs. Johnson was in San An­tonio on Wednesday to meet Rosa­lynn Carter, in Texas on a two-day campaign trip for her husband. Carter is due in Texas on Friday for campaign visits to Houston and Dallas. 
Mrs. Johnson and Gov. and Mrs. Dolph Briscoe met Mrs. Carter at the airport. Mrs. Johnson made no public comment and neither wo­man referred to Carter's remarks about Lyndon Johnson. 
The official party line in Texas remained one of unity, though some Johnson Democrats in the state said they felt otherwise. 
Bird publishes Cultures in Conflict 
Cultures in Conflict: An Essay In the Philosophy of the Humanities,. by Dr. Otto A. Bird, professor of Arts and Sciences, has been pub­lished by the Notre Dame Press. 
In writing the book, Bird, the founder and first director of the General Program of Liberal Studies at Notre Dame, drtw extensively on his experience as a member of the committee which planned the innovative 15th edition of the Encyclopedia Brittanira, expecially the introductory volume on the organization of knowledge. He explores the intellectual history ~f the West using three models--the literary-humanistic ideal of antiqui­ty, the medieval theological ideal. 
SMC library 

to give tours 
Orientation tours of the SMC 
Library will be given every Wedne­sday, beginning Sept. 29 and 
t;:ontinuing through October 27. The tours will begin at 11:45 a.m. and last 30 minutes. 
A general introduction to the use of the library Iwill be given with emphasis on the use of the catalog 
and the reference and periodical 
collections. 

and the scientific ideal of the modern world--and analyzes cul­tural crises arising from their conflicting claims. 
The author suggests that the current questioning of our scientific technological culture means that we might well be entering another watershed. "Science and its remak­ing of the world," Bird notes, "have come to be recognized as not entirely unmixed blessings; ap­peals and demands are put forth in favor of a 'c0unter-culture' .that is directed mainly against a culture based on science; and for the first time in many generations, there is again widespread interest in reli­gion. If such mar ifestations should prove to be more than passing fads, there will be no doubt that we have 
been undergoing a cultural crisis, a • WINE, GOURMET FOODS :. crisis in which one of the great and • 311.4 S 11 ST NILES MICiflGAN • 
central issues is a conflict of ideals • • • ' • 
and.intellectual c~Iture." . i1 MILE NORTH OF IND.-MICH. STATE LINE ON U.S. 31• 
Bird, who studied at the Un!Ver--• sities of Michigan and Chicago . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ~ • • • • • • • • e before taking his doctorate in,...---~~----~------------------. 
medieval studies at the University of Toronto in 1939, has written two other books, "Syllogistic," pub­lished by Pentice-Hall in 1964, and 
"The Idea of Justice," published in 1967 by Praeger. Much of his current work was written while a fellow during the 1973-74 academic year at the Institute for Ecumenical and Cultural Research at St. John's University, Collegeville, Minn., and its publication was supported in part by a grant from the Institute for Philosophical Research. 
... Cinema:: 77 : Patron Cards 
l b · ' W d d
on Sa e egznnmg e nes ay, September 22, 1976 at the Stud U '• T k Qlii
ent nzon ic et 'JJ ice 
1 4 pm Daily $5 00 
-~ • . 
...,__~!""!"'--"""!".·"''"'· "'· -."'!""'.--.-.______,.__...,.___. 
' ~' \ ·' .. \ .\ ,\ ' \ -~· ~ 't . • • ~. • , • 
: ... ll' ~ ~· :~. ..:"' • \ • 
_.. ·....i 

Nationally, the FBI report show­ed murder declined 12 percent, rape and assault each dropped 1 percent, robbery was down 10 percent, burglary dtopped 5 per­~ent and motor vehicle theft dec­
lined 3 percent. 

The pattern of an increase in thefts and a decline in all other crimes was true for cities of 25,000 and more in population. But there were variations from city to city. 
Among the largest cities, the number of crimes reported in all seven categories declined in Chi­cago, Los Angeles and Philadel­phia, but rose in New York and Houston. 
In the nation's suburbs, the report. showed a 1 to 2 percent increase in assault and rape as well as a nine percent increase in theft. The other crimes declined. 
In rural areas, theft was up 8 percent and motor vehicle theft increased 4 percent while the other crimes decreased. The number of rural murders plummeted 21 per­cent, the largest decrease in any category. 
By region, the overall crime rate was up 9 percent in the Northeast, 3 percent in North Central states, 1 percent in the South and 2 percent in the West. 
SUNDAY MASSES 
(MAIN CHURCH) 
5:15 p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C.
9:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. James Flanigan, C.S.C.

10 :45 a.m. Sunday Rev. David B. Burrell, C.S.C.

12:15 p.m. Sunday 

Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. Vespers will be at 7:15p.m. Sunday in Lady Chapel. Rev. David B. Burrell, C.S.C. will be celebrant. 
:. TWM PARTY STORE-·:: :oPEN: MON -SAT 9 am -11 pui: : SpNDAY 12 noon-11 .pm ·•
·• 

: COLD BEER, PACKAGE UQUOR,:
• 

Psst!! How 'bout a Quickie 
Leaves Main Circle N.D. 
H.C. SMC 
8:30 11:00 9:00 11:30 9:30 12:00 10:00 12:30 
Stops at Kubiaks Boars Head Heidelberg Shulas Forum theaters 

Denny's · .TONIGHT Sept 24 
I . ~ 


Carter , Ford clash in televised debates 
(Continued from page 1] 
of the Congress, we could fully justify a $28 billion tax reduction," 
Ford said. 
As for the tax bill recently passed by Congress, Ford said he was "not entirely" satisfied and that he would have preferred another $10 billion reduction. 
The two candidates also debated Ford's record of vetoes, the Presi­dent saying he has saved the taxpayers $9 billion that way, Carter insisting that the rejected bills have retarded economy ­spurring programs and thus added to the deficit. 
''Gov. Carter complains about the deficit that this administration has had and yet he condemns the vetoes that I have made,'' Ford said. " ... Now he can't have it both ways." 
But Carter said the record shows that unemployment has been in­creasing, and said against the background of bleak economic stat­istics, Ford's claim of recovery "just doesn't go." 
The President said Carter "has played a little fast and loose with the facts about vetoes." Ford said his have cut $9 billion in spending and would have saved $13 billion more if the Democratic Congress had not overridden them. 
Later, Ford renewed his charge that Carter had advocated a tax program that would increase the burden on half the American people. And Carter, again, heated­ly denied it. 
Ford was asked, in light of his casting blame on Congress l,lnd the likelihood of a Democratic Con­gress next year, if he could work with such a Congress. 
But Ford said he thought the Republicans have a good chance of winning a majority of House seats and of making gains in the Senate. ''And as president, I will be able to work with that kind of Congress," he said. 
But i:n the event a Democratic Congress is elected, Ford said the 
lnnsbruck offers study variety 
(Continued from page 1) Germany or see a Mozart opera. Even enduring the red tape of mailing a package can be a lesson on the socialist system.'' Fr. Lawrence Broestl, one of the original coordinators of Foreign Study programs, and Innsbruck director for his third time last year, maintains that the individual stu­dent holds the key to the program's success: "'Last year the students made a good effort to take advantage of all opportunities. They did so many things on their own. It tends to mature a person and give him a sense of responsibility. Fr. Broestl also pointed out that the group does not make as many Austrian contacts as they should, but the choice lies with the student. He thinks that students tend to form such a tight group because it's difficult to find separate hous­ing facilities. Classes are conduct­ed for Innsbruckers alone because 
they are not fluent enough to keep pace with Austrian students. 
Fr. Broestl is not particularly concerned with the group's tight­ness, however, because he finds that Innsbruck is a friendly city, and students can find contacts where their interests lie, whether that's sports, music or chatting with the Haus frau. 
Dr. Charles Parnell, present director of the Foreign Study Programs, visited Innsbruck last year to evaluate the program. He sees a constant dilemma of the program as trying to balance travel with academics. The director may oversee a student's activities, but in the end. to travel or to study is a student's decision. 
"If a student were to spend as many hours with the books in Innsbruck as he does at ND, he'd be better off here at the library,'' remarked Parnell. 
Since Parnell has been the director. he has worked with the 
Philosophy of Religion conference continues 
Dr. Frederick J. Crosson, newly­installed as O'Hara Professor of Philosophy, will discuss "Philoso­phy. Religion and Faith" today at 4 
p.m. in the Center for Continuing Education. 
Crosson's address is scheduled for a session of the Philosophy of Religion conference which opened yesterday in the CCE and which continues today and tomorrow.. 
University President Fr. Theo­dore M. Hesburgh will be chairman of today's session. Fr. David Burrell is chairman of the closing Saturday morning symposium, "Religious Belief and Rationality." 
Other speakers and their topics are George Mavrodes, University of Michigan, "Rationality and Re­ligious Belief''; Langton Gilkey, University of Chicago, "The Dia­lectic of Christian Belief: Rational, Incredible and Credible"; John Smith, Yale University, "Faith, Belief and the Problem of Rational­ity in Religion"; Alvin Plantinga of Calvin College and Notre Dame, "Is Belief in God Rational?"; Robert Adams, University of Cali­fornia at Los ·Angeles, "Moral Arguments for Theistic Belief,'' and G.E. M. Anscombe, Cam­bridge University, "What is it to Believe Someone?"' 
Other Notre Dame faculty mem­bers participating in the conference as session chairmen or commenta­tors are Dr. Cornelius F. Delaney, chairman of the sponsoring Philos­ophy Department; Dr. Joseph Bobik, Dr. A. Robert Caponigri, Rev. Ernan McMullin, and Drs. Gary Gutting, Kenneth Sayre, Michael Lous, Ralph Mcinerny and William Frerking. 
Visitng participants include John Post, Vanderbilt; John Meagher, l.:niversity of Toronto; Barry Miller, University of New England, Astralia; William McClendon, Church Divinity School of the .->acific. Berkeley; Harry Nielsen, University of Windsor, and Nicholas Wolterstorff. Calvin Col­lege. 
A biannual conference on a specific theme'in the philosophy of religion, possibly resulting in a series of publications in this area, will be sponsored by the Center, which will provide focus of interest for the Philosophy Department and attract visiting scholars. · 
For Hockey Cheerleaders 
Tryouts announced 
Jennifer Durot is the new captain nates will serve in a more active of the Hockey Cheerleading Squad role than they have before. They this year. She will be assisted by 
will be on the ice with regular advisor, Fr. McGrath, and assist­squad for the flag ceremony and ant captain Mickey Finn. will also perform in the sideline Tryouts will be held Sunday 
routines with the regular squad. evening at 8:30 p.m. at the ACC, Qualifications are as follows: 1) Gate 3. All skaters (girls f!'om both skating ability, 2) neat appearance, St. Mary's and Notre Dame) are 3) attendance at all games and invited to try-out. practices, 4) enthusiasm! The format for this year's pro­If interested in becoming a gram will differ slightly from those hockey cheerleader contact Jenni­in the past. There will be a total of fer Durot 4-5155 (SMC), Cindy approximately ten or twelve cheer­2-3429 (ND), or just come Sund.ay 
leaders. Six girls will make up the night at 8:30 p.m. to the Athletic regular skating squad and the . and .Convocation Center· at .Notre remaining will be alternates. Alter-Dame. 
Foreign Study Committee to insti­tute the AL 299 lA Local Elective, a course listing which permits Inns­bruckers to elect Austrian courses for credits acceptable by Notre Dame. Also a field trip from Salzburg to Vienna'is being contin­ued since its start last year, and this year's director Professor Klaus Lanzihger will be allowed to allo­cate money to students for concerts in Salzburg and Innsbruck. 
Parnell has also effected student interaction with the committee in terms of voting rights for selection of freshmen candidates. He would like to see more input from students and suggested that a monthly report from Innsbruck would be useful. 
Parnell sees no drastic change in the Innsbruck format. "We wouldn't want to destroy the vitality of the group, but we don't want a ghetto either. We want a strong group which seeks to open itself to the exterior." 
Perhaps former Innsbrucker Scott Appleby summed up the year's experience best: 
"It's the most freedom we'd ever 
had in our life and probably the 
most freedom we'll ever havE 
again. What better conditions tc 
learn about others and rself?" 
voters should keep him in office to "check their excesses with my vetoes.'' 
Carter said, however, it was a "question of leadership" and said Presidents Eisenhower and Nixon had worked with Democratic con­gresses. He accused Ford of "pub­lic relations stunts" and said Ford never attempts to get what he wants from Congress by working with the Congress. 
"This is government by stale­mate," Carter said. 
Ford said there is considerable anti-Washngton feeling outside the government, "but I think the feeling is misplaced. Any anti­Washington feeling should be focused on Congress,'' he said. 
"That's where the problem is and I hope there will be some corrective action taken," he said. 
Near the conclusion of the 90· minute question, answer and re­buttal session, the Great Debate became a silent debate. The tele­vision networks lost their sound for 27 minutes, and the candidates stood silent. 
The candidates wrapped it up on overtime, with summations that were, in essence, reviews of their standard campaign speeches. 
"We have suffered because we haven't had leadership in this administration," Carter said. "We've had a government of stalemate." It is a theme he hits from every platform -and one he raised at intervals during the debate, the first of three between the White House rivals. 
Carter said the nation needs 
unity after a time of division. 
cooperation between Congress and 
the White House after a time of 
confrontation. He had earlier said 
Ford had vetoed legislation at a 
rate not seen since the Civil War, 
but the President said that was FAST 
I TYPEWRITER J
REPAIR 
fJ:I:#:fij,j 

2915 Mishawaka Ave. 
playing fast and loose with facrs ­and at the same time contended his 
vetoes  have saved the  taxpayer's  
$9 billion.  
Ford  said  a  major  campaign  

issue is trust. "A President should not be all things to all people," he said. "A President should be the same thing to all people." He already had accused Carter of imprecision and wavering on eco­nomic issues including taxes. 
Furthermore, Ford said in hi~ summation, Carter has endorsed a Democratic platform that advocates more programs, more spending. and would mean higher taxes and bigger deficits. He said Carter embraces the record of the Demo­cratic Congress. and "'it calls for more of the same.'' 
In an earlier exchange. Carter had said that if he was to be tied with all acts of a Congress in which he never served. Ford should be identified with the administration of Richard M. Nixon. in which he did serve. 
"I think the real issue in thi~ campaign and that which you must decide on Nov. 2 is whether :-·ou should vote for his promises or my performance in two year!> in the White House."' Ford said. 
Minutes later. as he left the theater. Ford said the debate had been great. "I enjoyed it very much.'" Asked who had won, the President replied: 
"The American people."' 

The next Ford-Carter debate will be held in San Francisco on Oct. 6. It will deal with foreign policy and defense issues. 
Tired of the same old bars? 
Come to 
LOUIES Serving pizza & beer till 3am 

919 COLLEGE SQ. Mishawaka 
10 -20% Savings 
Tomorrow lOam to lOpm 
on entire stock of  
*JEWELRY  *BUCKLES  
*CLOTHES  *BONGS  *T-SHIRTS  
* 8-TRACKS  *BELTS  *ASSESSORIES  

* *FREE Refreshments provided by Canfield Beverages 
RECORDS Store-Wide 
SALE 
RECORDS 
919 I College Sqnre Mishawaka, l1diau 46544 
· 

HOURS MON-SAT 10-9pm SUN Noon to 6pm 

1 
1 
1 
l 
1 
j 
l l 
l 
1 
j I l l I 
l 
l 
j j l 
4 
j 
I j 
1 
l 
~ 

12 the observer 

~~--~~~ ~~---­
Irish invade Wildcat lair for finale 
by Ray O'Brien Sports Writer 

A rejuvenated Notre Dame team hits the road this Saturday with their destination Evanston, Ill., home of the Northwestern Wild­cats. This annual confrontation is most special this year because it marks the conclusion of a tradi­tional confrontation between the Irish and the Wildcats that began in 1889. Notre Dame has captured the last ten contest. 
This game comes at an oppor­tune time for the Irish. Last week's 23-0 drubbing of Purdue was encouraging but the team still had a lot to prove and improvement in several areas is necessary. The offensive line was well coordinated which enabled the entire offense to execute more efficiently. Each game should show marked im­provement in this area. North­western·s defensive line has been inconsistent in the first two games and should prove to be a good test for Irish's front line. 
The offensive backfield is heal­thy and beginning to roll. Halfback AI Hunter and fullback Jerome Heavens look in top form and should gain decent yardage against Northwestern's rubber band de­fense. Rick Slager is finally in good favor with the fans. A good game for the Irish quarterback could give the team a big lift an,d initiate some momentum which has been lacking since the beginning of last year. 
For the second straight week the defense has lost a starter for the season. The experience of three­year starter Randy Harrison will be a significant loss, Sophomore Joe Restic will replace Harrison. Coach Devine has confidence in Restic. "Joe is a fine athlete and should be able to work into the free safety spot even though he doesn't have 

Fred Herbst 

Football Picks 
The Irish Eye 
Quarterback Rick Slager will need the help of an improving offense line if he is to move the ball 
for the Irish against Northwestern tomorrow in Evanston. (Photo by joe Burns.) 
the experience Randy gave us," he touchdown. back to Dyche Stadium after losing said. Luther Bradley and Ted Burg-its first two road games against 
Last week's shutout was not the meier are coming off stellar perfor-Purdue and North Carolina. The case of an overpowering defense. mances against Purdue. Ken Dike Wildcats' defense was very weak The Irish needed a few well timed put in a solid performance last in their opener against the Boiler­breaks to ensure them of their shut week at the defensive tackle spot makers. The role was reversed last out. "We bent a little on defense, while filling the gap left by an week as the defense allowed only but we didn't break," commented injured Jeff Weston. Ross Browner one touchdown while the offense Devine. continues to play like a potential failed to score. 
Notre Dame's defense has been All-American so another shutout is The performance of the offense outstanding against Northwestern very possible. depends on the health of quarter-in the past five games. They have Northwestern comes crawling back Randy Dean. Dean, a walk allowed the Wildcats only two on, was second in the Big Ten in touchdowns and a total of 17 points *Qbs t passing last year. He missed last 
in this five year span while the Irish server week's game but is expected to have compiled a phenomenal 211 start against the Irish tomorrow. points in these confrontations. Last Dean's favorite target is flanker
p0 r 5 year's defensive standout was cap-Scott Yelvington. Yelvington is a tain Willie Fry who blocked a deep threat who has been the Wildcat punt which set up an Irish leading receiver in the Big Ten for 
As usual. the college football season has produced its share of upsets and surprise teams. After a rash of upsets in the opening week, most of the favorites managed to win last week, with Missouri being the notable exception. Ranked the top team in the nation by the Sporting News last week after romping over USC, the Tigers were humbled by Illinois. 
Illinois has to rank as one of the surprise teams in the country thus far. The Illini are undefeated to date, including last week's impressive win over Missouri. South Carolina is another surprise. The Gamecocks raised their slate to 3-0 last week, beating Duke. Fans will find out tomorrow how good South Carolina is when they face powerful Georgia. 
Perhaps the biggest surprise of the young season is Miami of Ohfo. After compiling a 32-l-l mark over the past three years, the Redskins are winless on the campaign with a 0-3 record. 
So with the help of Ray O'Brien, here are the Irish Eye picks for the weekend: 
California at Arizona State: California is a fine team that has had the misfortune of opening on the road against Georgia and Oklahoma. They're a much better club than their 0-2 record inc)icates. Arizona State is 0-1 following their stunning upset loss to UCLA. They've had two weeks to think about that one, and they know that another loss would mean that Coach Frank Kush would kill them one-by-one. Arizona State by 3. O'Brien: ASU by 10. 
Vanderbilt at Alabama: Vandy has a decent little team, but Alabama has an ?wesome one. After losing their opener, Bear's boys made up their minds to play football and leveled SMU by a mere 53 points. They should do more of the same this week. Barna by 17. O'Brien: The Tide 14. 
San Diego State at Bowling Green: Both teams are on the way up. and it should be an interesting game. Bowling Green has the edge since they're at home, but Features Editor and sometimes sports expert Tim O'Reiley says it's the Aztecs by 11. So, the Aztecs by 11. O'Brien: Bowling Green by 6. 
Miami [0.] at Cincinnati: This has to be one of the most bitter rivalries in the nation. Located only about 40 miles from each other, their confrontations resemble wars more than games. The Redskins are in desperate need of a win tomorrow and feel that they've solved their quarterback problem. The Irish Eye just can't say 'no' to Miami 0. The Redskins by 7. O'Brien: Bearcats by 3. 
New Hampshire at Dartmouth: New Hampshire is the fourth-ranked Division II school in the country so they're going to be tough for Greg Robinson and the rest of the Green and White. Still, Dartmouth is probably the class of the Ivy so they should take it. Dartmouth by 3. O'Brien: New Hampshire by 4. 
Baylor at Dlinois: Are the Illini real? It's hard to say, so far they've only played lowly Iowa and vastly over-rated Missouri. Baylor's nothing to write home about so the Illini sholdn't have any trouble. Illinois by 7. O'Brien: lllini by 10. 
Lehigh nt Penn: This is the first of five games against Division I schools for the Engineers this year, and they have something to prove. Lehigh, defending Lambert Cup Champion and 2-0 for the season, wasn't ranked in this week's Division II poll and they're a bit angry. Look for big John Matt to take out his rage on the Quakers. Lehigh by 3. O'Brien: The Engineers by 10. 
Maryland at Syracuse: The Orange are making progress. Slow and painful to be sure, but all the same, progress. Maryland is already where they want to be, in the top ten. A rugged Orange defense should make it respectable, but that's all. Maryland by 10. O'Brien: Terps by 14. 
Navy at Michigan: The humane society should outlaw games like this. If Navy plays its best game ofthe season and Michigan its worst, it'll still be a rout. Wolverines by 21. Ford and O'Brien: Michigan by 28. 
Missouri at Ohio State: This is an interesting battle. Everyone knows how good the Buckeyes are, but what about the Tigers? Missouri made shambles of Southern Cal only to be routed the next week by Illinois. The Tigers that played in Los Angeles could beat Woody, but the Tigers that played last week can forget it. Will the real Missouri please stand up? Ohio State by 14. O'Brien: Bucks by 10. 
Texas Christian at Nebraska: TCU has long been known for their great looking coeds and their football, or lack of football as the case may be. On the other hand, Nebraska is one of the best teams in the nation, despite an opening season tie. Huskers by 17. O'Brien: Nebraska by 21. 
Texas Tech at New Mexico: The Red Raiders have been on the verge of a great season for the last ten years and have yet to have one. Irish Eye scout and SMC Sports Editor Debbie Dahrling says that New Mexico can't be beat. Lobos by 3. O'Brien: Tech by 7. 
Florida State at Oklahoma: Florida State doesn't play bad football, but there's no way on earth they can match them Sooners. Oklahoma is a power again this year andshouldn'tbe stopped before their showdown with Nebraska. And who says crime d~esn't pay? Oklahoma by 10. O'Brien: Sooners by 14. 
Southern Cal at Purdue: The Trojan team that rolled over Oregon (53-0) last week is awesome. The Boilermaker team that played here last week is pitiful ~t best. Still, Purdue is.better than they looked against the Irish and could make a game of it. Just don't bet on it. USC by 21. O'Brien: USC by 7. 
UPSET OF THE WEEK 
South Carolina at Georgia: The Bulldogs are a good football team, as is evidenced by their convincing win over California. The Gamecocks are under-rated and have a sound club. Carolina is off to its best start in 12 years, winning their first three games. As Notre Dame will find out, South Carolina is a good football team. Gamecocks by 3. O'Brien: Georgia by 7. 
LAST WEEK: 10-5, 67 pet.; Guest Picker Gregg Bangs: 12-3, 80 pet. 
the past two years. 

But the real star on North­
western's team is tailback Greg 
Boykin. Boykin passed up the NFL 
draft to return to play out his red 
shirt year. The All-American 
candidate became the Wildcat's 
all-time leading rusher with 2,080 
yards. In the two games this year 
he has totaled 158 yards. The Irish 
must stop Boykin to shut down the 
Wildcat's offense. 

Northwestern's defense remains 
a question mark. The secondary is 
fairly strong led by strong safety 
Pete Shaw who is also a dangerous 
punt returner. However, the 
defensive line has been very weak 
in Northwestern's first two outings. 
Outside of middle guard Paul Maly 
the line is very inexperienced. 
Purdue sliced through this five 
man front line for 310 yard.> 
rushing. They improved somewhat 
last week against the Tar Heels but 
still look vulnerable up front. 
Defensive end Kevin Sprouse stood 
out last week garnering 19 tackles 
(12 of which were solos). A~ 
unpredictable as they are, the 
defense can shut the door on their 
opponents. 

The Wildcats are healthy and are 
finally at home. They will be up for 
Notre Dame in this last battle of the 
midwest rivalry. Notre Dame can't 
take anything for granted anymore. 
The Irish still need a success to 
settle things at home and get tht 
students and fans checking the 
schedule ahead. This is a good 
game to work out the kinks and 
weaknesses and it can't be wasted. 
Northwestern has been kind in the 
past and the Irish hope history will 
once again repeat itself. 

IRISH ITEMS: The last coach to 
lead the Wildcats to a victory over 
the Fighting Irish was Ara Par­
seghian. The 1962 contest found 
ND on the short end of a 35-6 
decision. Dave Reeve needs one 
more field goal to tie him with Bob 
Thomas for the all-time career 
record. 

Kickoff for tomorrow's game is set for 1:30 p.m. The contest will not be televised, since it failed to sell out. It will be·broadcast bv the Mutual Radio Network and WSND. 
Oregon student 
tix distribution set for next week 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
students desiring a ticket to the 
Oregon football game for their 
personal use may obtain them at 
the #1 and #2 Ticket Windows on 
the second floor of the ACC 
beginning next week. 

A ticket to the Oregon game is 
not included in a student's season 
football ticket, since it will be 
played on the first day of mid­
semester break, Oct. 16. 

Seniors may pick up their ticket 
on Monday, Sept. 27; juniors, 
graduate and law students on 
Tuesday, Sept. 28; sophomores on 
Wednesday, Sept. 29; and fresh­
men on Thursday, Sept. 30. 
Married students desiring tickets 
for themselves and spouses will be 
able to procure tickets with their 
class. 

The ticket windows will be open 
from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., including the 
noon hour, each of the four days. 
When reporting to the ticket window, students must present their ID card along with the 4-game season ticket that they were issued earlier in September. At that time students will fill out an application to present with their ID. One student may present four ID cards and submit four applications for adjacent seating. 
There will be no charge for Notre Damt undergraduates. However, St. Mary's students will be charged $6 for their ticket while Notre Dame graduate and law students will be charged $3 as will the spouse of a Notre Dame student. 
No Oregon student tickets will be issued after Oct. 1. 












