
Convention to convene Wednesday 
by Phil Cackley Senior Staff Reporter 
Wednesday night marks the opening of the 1976 Mock Political Convention which is being called the most uni4uc political conven­tion to be staged on campus since its inception. 
Following almost a year and wuntless man-hours of preparation time. the convention will begin at 6 
p.m. March 3 in Stepan Center. Over 900 delegates and alternates will participate in the four-day event featuring addresses by the L'hairman of the National Demo­cratic Party and various congress­men and senators. 
This will be the first convention to have a detailed platform written by the students. Another notable li~st is the earlv date of the convention. which contributes to the large field of 10 candidates in the running for the nomination. 
Other precedents to be set this year arl' the extensive participation of both the black and the women's t·aucuses, and the fact that this will he the first year Notre Dame coeds will take p<trt in the event. 
The convention begins Wednes­day night with addresses by Robert Strauss, chairman of the National Democratic Party, Father Theodore Hesburgh, president of the Univer­sity, and Peter Nemeth, mayor of South Bend. 
The main item on Wednesday night's agenda is a report by the Credentials Committee, election of 
permanent  chairpersons  for  the  
convention,  and  a  report  by  the  
Rules Committee.  

Mark Frieden. press secretary for the convention, termed Wed­nesday "an introductory night so the delegates can get the feel of' how a convention is run." 
Other events for the opL•ning night include performances by the Notre Dame Band. the Glee Club, an invocation by Father Robert Griflin, University chaplain, and presentation of arms by the Army ROTC. Presentation of arms and 
performances by either the ND Band or the ND Jazz Band will be given every night. 
Invocations will be given on other nights by Dr. Gerhart Nie­meyer, professor emeritus of gov­ernment, Father William Toohey, director of Campus Ministry, and Father Raymond Cour, professor of government. 
DemOCf8tS scramble 
day night with the nomination of 

Mass Prl·mary next~i~l ~~~~~d:l~t~! ~~~d~d:st:-col:r~~~ 
• mght, wtth numerous demonstra­
BOSTON (AP) --With a flurry of forecasts about the outcome, cam­paigning Democrats deployed ac­ross Massachusetts Sunday, their scramble for presidential primary votes dramatizing Rep. Morris K. Udall's wry observation that "in a crazy. eight-man field, anything l'an happen." 
Sen. Henry M. Jackson of Wash­ington said what will happen is that he'll win Tuesday. So did Sargent Shriver. 
Udall said he thinks he has a good chance to top the field himself. hut insisted that his show­ing will he a plus so long as he tinishL'S "ahead of the other pro­
gressive candidates." 
Handful of votes 
In television interviews and at 
rallies and receptions from Boston 
to Springfield. six candidates were 
at work. in a race so divided that a 
relative handful of votes could 
juggle the order of finish. 
Former Georgia Gov. Jimmy 
Carter. front run ncr among Demo­
crats by virtue of his New Hamp­
shire primary victory, already has 
wrapped up his Massachusetts 
campaign. with Democratic odds­
makers generally agreed that he 
probably will run near the top of 
the field here. 
Gov. George Wallace of Alabama 
was staging the last of 17 campaign 
rallies Mouday night in Boston. 
and his primary strength was a 
major imponderable, particularly in 
;t city torn by controversy over the 
busing of srhool children for racial 
integration. 
·'He's a factor; he will distort the 
re~ults in Massachusetts," Udall 
said on the C'BS-TV program "Face 
the N;ttion." 
Shriver and Pennsylvania Gov. 
Milton .I. Shapp shared the televi­
sion cameras. while former Okla­
homa Sen. Fred R. Harris was 
campaigning in Somerville, near 
Boston. and Chicopee in western 
Massacusctts. 
Shriver said he is in the presi­
dential campaign to stay, "and 
we're going to win on Tuesday." 
With his wife, the former Eunice 
Kennedy, Shriver held a Family 
Day rally at Faneuil Hall, empha­
Thursday night features the key­note address of the convention, to be given by Rep. Don Reigle of Michigan. Reigle is a candidate for the Senate scat being vacated by Philip Hart and has been cited as 

one of the top leaders in American politics today. 
The delegates will begin their real work Thursday night with the consideration of the 32-plank plat­form committee. A number of controversial issues must be dealt with, including abortion, women's rights. busing and gun control. 
The convention will climax Fri­
tions in support of the candidates. 

~casar Chavez, president of the Friday will also feature an ad-Umtcd Farm Workers Union, also dress by Sen. Gary Hart of Colora­appeared with Shriver. do. Hart .served ~s Sen. Geor~e 
Vermont also holds its primary McGovern s ~amp~tgn man_ager tn on Tuesday, with Carter, Harris the 1972 prestdenttal campatgn and and Shriver entered. 
was a key figure at the '72 Democratic Convention. 
Both the Thursday and Friday night sessions will begin at 6:30 
p.m. and will run until business is completed, probably past mid­night. All of the convention sessions will be held in Stepan Center. 
Saturday afternoon's session will begin at noon and end at 4 p.m .. and will be highlighted by addres­ses by Rep. John Brademas, con­gressman from the South Bend district. and Sen. Patrick Leahy. the first Democratic U.S. senator ever to be elected from Vermont. 
Saturday's agenda calls for elec­tion of the vice-presidential candi­date and the acceptance speech by either the presidential nominee himself or his representative. 
There will be a semi-formal dance Saturday night from 9 to I in Stepan Center in commemoration of the convention and the Bicen­tennial. 
A figure noticeably absent from this year's proceedings is the late Dr. Paul Bartholomew. Bartholo­mew was the government professor who originated the convention in 1940 and who took an active part in its development since then. 
The convention is being dedicat­ed to the memory of Bartholomew and there will be a memorial service for him Thursday night. Cour will present a speech and there will be a presentation of a plaque to Mrs. Bartholomew by Nancy Brenner and Vincent Mo­schella. convention co-chairper­sons. 
760 delegates ami 200 altL•rnatl.:-. representing the 50 -.tate\ and -1 territories will vote for one of thl' I 0 Democratil' candidates who inl'ludt· Sen. Fred Harris. former GO\. Jimmy Carter. Rep. Morri~ Udall. Sen. Henry .Ja,·kson. Sen. Birch Bavh. Gov. T .:rrv Sanford. Gm·. Mihon Shapp. Sargent Shri\'L'I'. Gov. George Wallace and Sen. Robert Byrd. 
Frieden said the early datt· of tht· convention meant that wt•'rl' sticking our necks out and taking our chances. There·~ no rll'ar-nl! leadership in the party." Thi-. increases the chances of picking a different candidate from the one picked by the Democratic National Convention. 
The Mock Political Convention has picked the same candidate five out of eight times since )')40. 
Brenner said the delegate parti­cipation and visitor participation will be the key to the convention's success. 
She commented that the com­pleteness of the platform which has been drawn up for this year's convention and the very effective participation by the black caucus have been noteworthy. 
The women's caucus has had less effective participation in the convention process, Brenner noted, because of the small number of women from the ND-SMC com­munity who have taken part. 

President Ford is unopposed on the Republican ballot there. Ford 

Committee to select SU director
and Ronald Reagan buth arc on the Massachusetts ballot. but neither has campaigned here. by Cathy Nolan 
Jackson said on the ABC-TV Staff Reporter program "Issues and Answers" that he has a poll showing him A special committee has been ahead in Massachusetts. He did formed to select the 1976-77 Stud-not say when it was taken, who did cnt Union director. The committee the polling or how many voters provided for by a recent Student were surveyed. Government constitutional amend-' 
Jackson ~lso looked for a lift from ment, represents a change in the the endorsement of Daniel P. selection process. Moynihan, the former United Na-In previous years, the director tions ambassador, which was to be was chosen by the acting Student promoted in an election-eve adver-Union director and the administrat­tising blitz. tve supervisor. The former selec-
Hc said the endorsement did not tion procedure, according to direct­involve any commitment or discus-or Tom Birsic, was a very muddled, sion of the possibility that Moyn-informal process. ihan might become secretary of The new selection committee will state, although the senator has include the Student Union director, been mentioning that in campaign associate director and comptroller, speeches. the outgoing student body presi-
Bayh. appearing on WCBV-TV, dent and Treasurer. the incoming said he agrees with Udall on most SBP and the Student Activities major issues but insisted he would director. 
be a stronger Democratic presi-fi~<==::::H dcntial nominee. He said that is because Udall voted in the House 
II years ago against repeal of the federal law permitting states to ~ 
pass legislation barr;ng the union 
shop. 
Udall cast that vote in 1905, saying later that he did so for the ~ sake of political survival in an increasingly conservative Arizona constituency and after discussing 
the issue with state labor leaders. ~ 
He has since said that as President he would lead the tight for repeal of the so-called right to work laws. 
At a news conference in Cam­bridge. Bayh kept up his offensive against Carter, saying the former Georgia governor has taken posi­tions that "look like planks in the Republican Party platform." 
Among those points, Bayh said, ~ arc opposition to the public service jobs program backed by other Democrats and to legislation that 
Under the new selection policy, anyone interested in the position must first fill out a:n application. The applicant is asked to list his qualifications and discuss any imp­rovements which could he made in Student Union. The applicant is also requested to submit a tentative organizational chart. 
After reviewing the applications. the committee will interview each candidate. The candidates will be interviewed by two or three mem­bers of the committee. The entire committee will then meet to pre­sent their opinions and a decision will be made within two weeks. 
The new selection system is valuable, Birsic commented, be­cause it recognizes the importance of outside opinion. In pr_evious years, the candidates did not even fill out a formal application. Student Government was not con­sulted when choosin_g a director. 
w-w~ >t~ w-

sizing his tie to the biggest would provide special revenue [ sharing grants to high unemploy-Pare"'~s of a Notre ~arne junior meet Fr. Burtchaell and Fr. Joyce at the Junior Parents
Democratic name in Massachu­
setts. mcnt areas. banquet Satur.daY.Il•ght •.S.ee story page 3. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
r -• w" wr -r N~ HP wr MP .... 

r 
I 
r 
r 
~ 
~ 
the observer Monday, March 1, 1976 

,_____News Briefs--­
I=================International ·Nixon returns to US 
TOKYO --After basking for eight days in the pomp and honor of China. Richard Nixon headed back to California yesterday from his trip that brewed controversy at home. An aide said the forme.r president planned no public statements or appearances. 
The departure from Canton, China, was informal. There were no ceremonies, speeches or departing statements. The ranking government official seeing Nixon off was Yao Lien-wei, vice chairman of the standing committee of the National Peoples' Congress. 
~=================Nationru 
Former double agent killed 
SOUTHBURY, Conn. --A former Mobil Oil Co. engineer who reportedly sold important oil industry know-how to the Soviet Union before turning double agent for the FBI died Sunday of what authorities said was a self-inflicted gunshot wound. 
Norman John Rees, 69, admitted accepting money for information he gave to Soviet intelligence agents and said that from 1971 to 197S he acted as a double agent for the FBI, according to a published interview. 
~,.--Qn Campus Toda~}--.1.1 
7 pm --lecture, general interest lecture on energy prob­lems, emphasis on oil and gas demand and their availability by dr. max pitcher, director of geology, continental oil co., rm 101 earth sciences bldg. 
--film, "a midsummer night's dream," engineering 10 pm aud. 
7 pm & --lecture, "the value of women'~ values'' by sr. ann8 pm 

ida gannon, b.v.m., nd library aud. 
8 pm --lecture," some peculiar catholic views of marriage promises" by rev. james t. burtchaell, c.s.c., nd library loungE'. 
8 pm --basketball, western michigan at nd, ace arena. 
midnight --the album hour-wsnd 640 am featured release: chick corea--"the leprechaun." 
12:15 am --nocturne night flight-wsnd 88.9fm, the best in progressive rock, jazz and blues, tonight's host: mark x. sullivan. 
7 pm --meeting, chess club, rm 227 math bldg. 
8 pm --meeting, philosophy honor society, with father james tunstead burtchaell, library lounge. 

by Jane Neff Staff Reporter 

The Notre Dame Glee Club is completmg preparations for a tour that will take them south to Florida. March 11 through 24 were chosen as tour dates to closely coincide with Spring Break. 
Pat Scott, the Club's business manager, explained that the group tries to play as many different cities over as large an area as possible. "We act as a promotional arm of the University, hoping to further an image of Notre Dame other than a Saturday afternoon football school," she said. 
In addition to concert stops in Florida's Fort Lauderdale, Tampa and Walt Disney. World, the Club will be singing in Greenville, Mississippi, New Orleans, Louis­iana, Savannah, Georgia, Mem­phis, Tennessee, and Cincinnati, Ohio. 

Bicentennial Ball 
$1 coin may follow 




Treasury to release $2 bill 
WASHINGTON (AP) _ The government's latest experiment with a $2 bill begins in about six 
weeks. Ifit works, a midget-size $1 coin may not be far behind. And if that works, the govern­ment may bury the $1 bill. 
The $1 bill is being victimized by inflation, which has robbed it of about 40 cents of its former value just since 1966. 
No decision has been made yet on a new $1 coin, but several key Treasury Department officials indi­cated they will support the move if it is shown the public will approve and use it. 
Frank H. MacDonald, deputy director of the U.S. Mint, a treasury agency, said the thinking is to have a coin larger than the current 2S-cent piece but smaller than the SO-cent piece. 
The feasibility of the move, including whether the public would accept and use such a coin, is part of a year-long study of u.S. coinage needs being made by the Research Triangle Institute of Raleigh-Dur­ham, N.C. under a $116,000 con­tract with the government. 

The report is due in May. savings in government printing MacDonald said if the Treasury costs of about $27 million in five Department decides to recommend years. 
the new coin, and Congress ap-It costs the government about proves, it could be in circulation in $13 to print a thousand bills, of any about 18 months. denomination. 
"I would say indications so far About 400 million twos will be are positive" for such a coin, he printed annually. The two will said in an interview. .have the same life expectancy as 
He said he thinks both a $1 bill the one, about 18 months. and a $1 coin would circulate Conlon said 60 per cent of all initially before any decision would bills now in circulation are ones, be made to eliminate the $1 bill. but it is hoped to reduce this to 
The existing large $1 coin and about 37 per cent with the advent of the SO-cent coin have been judged the twos. as failures, in part because the 
banking system has failed to circu-Fr. Griffin to say late them widely, he said. 
The Treasury Department alrea­daily Lent Mass dy has decided to go ahead with a $2 bill, and it is scheduled to go Fr. Robert Griffin will be saying into circulation on April 13, the Mass daily Monday through Friday birthdate of Thomas Jefferson, during Lent in the LaFortune whose portrait will be on the bill. Ballroom. The Masses will be 
James A. Conlon, director of the celebrated each day at 12: IS p.m. Bureau of Engraving and Printing, beginning this Wednesday (which said the $2 bill. if successful, is Ash Wednesday). All are should make it possible to cut the welcome to come to the services. annual production of 1.8 billion Ashes will be distributed at the paper dollars in half, resulting in a Mass on Wednesday. 
,...._.._.._.._.._.._.._.._.._.._.._.._.._.._.._.._.._.._.._.._.._.._.._~ 
r~~~;.,0~~:~~~~1 i PRE-CANA ! Ass't Night Editor: John ~ ~ Calcutt ~ A . I f th ~ 
Layout Staff Bob Bellissimo, ~ SpeCta program Or OSe ~ 
6~~n~~:o~e Mary Pat Tarpey I Notre Dame students and their ! Copy Reader: Ken "The ~ ~ Le~pe~" Bradford . :. partners preparing for marriage.~Ed1tonals: Martha Fanmng ~ ~ Features: _Gregg B. Bangs ~Sign up in the Campus Mt.nt•str ~ Sports Bill Bnnk ~ Y ~ Typists Mel Celeste, Mary ~ Off• . 103 M . I L•b ~ 
Anne Keefe, Hank Van Dyke, ~ tee In emona I rary ~ Karen Chiames ~ b f S :. Ad Layout: Joe Graif, Tom :. e ore pring Break. ~ Whelan ~ ~ lNight Controller: Dave Rust J ~ ~ 
-

~................................................... 
in the Center Theater 
Singers, Dancers and Musicians prepare athree minute performance selection.
Time: 12 :00 noon to 6:00P.M. 
BRING YOUR MUSIC. Musicians bring your own instruments. Equal Opportunity Employer For further information. please write: Ellen Lem Administrative Fine Arts Coordinator, Disneyland • 1313 Harbor Blvd .. Anaheim, CA 92803 
,., 
' . 
' 

Monday, March 1, 1976 the observer
---------------'~--=--=-=~~~­

Seniors elect Class Fellow this week 
by Neal Mongold -John McKay, former USC foot­culture Gonzo Journalism. just a big name, Jim Ferry, Staff Raporter ball coach and a gentleman on of -Rocky Bleier, a Notre Dame committee member, said. off the playing field. graduate, a war hero, and one of In November the Senior Fellow 
Notre Dame seniors will vote for -Geraldo Rivera, an investigat­the early leaders of Notre Dame Committee received nominations 
one of five candidates for Senior ive television reporter in New York involvement in the Logan Center. for the competition. Since then the 
Class Fellow this week. City who is deeply concerned with This year's choices represent a committee has researched the 53 
The voting will be from 9 to l :30 social issues. push by the Senior Fellow Commit­nominees and the group was on Wednesday night at the Alumni -Robert Keeshan, better known tee to establixh a precedent for narrowed down to 20 choices. Of Club and during lunch and dinner as Captain Kangaroo, and yet a high quality candidates. In recent these, 15 were unable to attend or Thursday at the dining halls. controversial university lecturer. years the program has not been as showed no interest in being Senior Ballots will be collected at the He is a powerful advocate in strong as it once was, Senior Fellow. Therefore, five finalists Huddle from lO to 2:30 on Thurs­television programming theory. committee chairman Bill Macaulry remain in the competition schedu· day. -Dr. Hunter S. Thompson, the said. led for this week. 
In a nutshell, the candidates are: controversial master of counter Some former Senior Fellows are The celebrity who is elected will 
J. Edgar Hoover, Werner von give a speech for the seniors during In Patty's case Braun and William Rucklshaus. the last week of March and 
The Senior Fellow award is students will be encouraged to presented to a personality whom meet him while he is on campus. the seniors choose for his outstand­Macauley .md Ferry are looking
Jury may decide Thursday 
ing accomplishments in and out of for a big voting turnout this week his special field. A sense of from seniors. The organization ha~ 
relevancy. rapport with students been updated. revamped and tight·SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -One of Feb. 4, 1974. same day Miss Hearst was arrested and a broad range of knowledge are ened up this year in an attempt toPatricia Hearst's lawyers says the ''If that had in fact occurred, we at a nearby apartment. Miss other criterion for the award. The improve the status of the Seniordefense will rest Monday and would be trying Tania. not Patty Hearst and defense psychiatrists Senior Fellow should be more that Fellow, Macauley said.
predicts that her bank robbery case Hearst. and she would be doing have testified th at the heiress was could go to the jury by Thursday. just what Emily Harris told her to under the control of the Harrises 
"Depending on what the prose­do--jumping up and down and during much of her 19 months 
THE FAUJLTY AND SfUDFNTS
cution docs. I expect the case to go calling the judge a pig," he said. underground. to the jury by Thursday." AI "If I had been confronted with a Miss Hearst faces uf to 35 years 
OFTHEGFNERALPROGRAM
Johnson said in an interview Sun­flaming revolutionary. I probably in prison if convicted o robbing the day. would have turned the case down." Hibernia Bank here on April IS, 

OF LIBERAL STUDIES 
;,We haven't ruled out the Mrs. Harris and her husband, 1974--about two months after her possibility of Patty taking the stand William, are SLA members who abduction from her Berkely apart­again." Johnson said in response were captured here Sept. 18, the ment. 
invite all freshmen and others interested in joining 
to a question. "But I can't imagine circumstances which would bring 


the Program to a social and informational meeting 
her back." 
U.S. Atty. James L. Browning 


Junior parents visit 
at7:00Tuesday,Marc:h 2, 1976, in Room 101
Jr. has hinted he might have a 
suprise rebut~al ~it~ess and. ha~. 


law Building.

by Ed Gauvreau tained the 1600 people in attend­said "somethmg IS m the wmd. 
But the tall, easy-mannered prose­

Staff Reporter ance, up from last year's 1100. cutor is playing close to the vest 
On Sunday morning, basketball 

William Saroyan'sentering the sixth and perhaps final "It was absolutely a super coach Digger Phelps spoke at a week of the celebrated bank rob­weekend," Junior Class President special breakfast in the North 

MY HEART'S IN THE 
bery trial. Rob Tully said oflast week's Juniof Pining Hall. 
HIGHlANDS 
Johnson also was cautious not to Parents Weekend. ·'Both my parents and I were tip his final hand. However, he "The only thing that went awry thrilled with all the events and the 
With HEUO OUT THERE as said that Dr. Margaret Thaler was at the coc~tail party Friday weekend in general," Tully said. 
anfain raiser. Songer, a clinical psychologist from night when the bar went dry for a "But I really have to say something 
(In mnjundion with the national Bicen­
Berkely, would be called to testify short time," Tully said. for Nancy Cueroni and her commit­
tennial Festival-"An All11)5t
Monday. Along with the cocktail party, tee. They spent a great deal oftime "We're considering the testimo­many parents attended the hockey and effort, with a smooth and 
THEATRE Chosen A!ople") 
ny of several other witnesses," he game Friday night. On Saturday, successful event the result." 

Tuesday, March 9 at 8:15P.M.
added, but declining to name them. 
most of the guests either attended 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 

•'They will not be psychiatric the Marquette game or gathered to Sr. Ida Gannon 
St. AI:>J\AISSION FREE-TICKETS 284-4176
experts." 
watch it on television. 
Johnson said he doesn't know 

Before the game, parents to discuss values
how long closing arguments will were 
able to discuss career opportunities
take. but said he expects his 

and job prospect_s for junior class Sr. Ann Ida Gannon, B.V.M.,
partner. the stylish Boston barris­

students at a number of collegiate immediate past-president of Mun­
ter F. Lee Bailey. to handle that 

workshops. The workshops were delein College, will speak on ''The
chon· for the defense. 

well-atended and received praise Value of Women's Values," Mon., 1
As though warming up for this 

from the parents, Tully said. Mar. 1, at 8 p.m. in the Library
week· s climax. Bailey appeared 

On Saturday night. University Auditorium. This will be the last in 
Saturday before 400 students at 

President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh the series of lectures sponsored by 
Stanford University Law School. 

was the principal celebrant at a the Advisory Council of Women
He restated a number of key 

special mass for juniors and their Students.
defense contentions including one 

parents. Fr. James Burtchaell. Gannon was the recipient of the
that Miss Hearst never became the 

University provost. delivered the 1975 Latare Medal, awarded an­
revolutionary Tania. nor a convert 

homily and the Notre Dame chapel nually by the University. She is
to the terrorist Svmbionese Libera­

tion Army which kidnapped her choir performed. currently pursuing advanced stu­After the mass. Hesburgh served dies at Notre Dame. Admission to the lecture is free,
Self-defenseClaSS as t~e ~ain s~eaker at the Presi­

dent s dmner m Stepan Center. and all students, faculty and inter­The Notre Dame Glee Club enter-ested persons are invited to attend. 



to begin Mar. 23 
Another session of Women's Self-Defense will begin after spring break. Classes will be divided into four areas: Basic self-defense; defense against guns and weapons; arm bars; and throws. Classes will begin at 8 p.m. in the ACC pit and will be on Tues., Mar. 23 and Mondays Mar. 29, Apr. 5, and Apr. 
12. If interested please contact Keving Buckley at 283-1815 or Frank Bright at 283-6654. Wear jeans and sweatshirts. 






JULIO'S 
NOW HAS 
PAN 


PIZZA!!! 

,PHONE 232..791 
~------------------~ 


Engineers:Find out about the Nuclear Navy. 
If you think you have the ability and desire to 
master nuclear engineering, the Navy's Nuclear 
Propulsion Program has openings for about 
200 outstanding college graduates. There's a 
Navy Recruiting Officer ready to give you all the 
details on how you can become someone special 
in the new Navy. 

U. Bill Hughes will be interviewing at the Plarerrent Bureau on March 9 & 10. 
Acareer in law­WithOUt laW SChOOl. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon· srble career. The Lawyer's Assistant 1s able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can g1ve you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the seven courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970. The Institute for Paralegal Trarning has placed more than 1200 graduates 1n law firms. banks. and corporations in over 75 cit1es. 
If you are a senior of high academ1c stand1ng and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assrstant, wed lrke to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an mtervrew wrth our representutive. 
We wr/1 vrsit your campus on 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
;>3~ Suulll 1711> Slrt•l'l PtHiadPI~IH,t, Pennsylv.tr>>.t 19103 (:' 15) 73?-6600 
---------~------------­

Founded November 3, 1966 

The Observer is published by the students of the University EDITORIAL BOARD of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief
reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported 

AI Rutherford Managing Editor 
as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent 

Jim Eder Executive Editor
the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­

Pat Hanifin
mentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, Editorial Editor cartoons and regular columns express the views of their Bob Mader News Editor authors. Column space is available to all members of the Maureen Rynn Calt1)US Editor community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Ken Bradford Copy Editor Val Zur1Jiis Wire Editor
Editorials: 28J-171S NeNs: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 

Tom O'Neil Features Editor Business Manager Tom Modglin Bill Brink 
Sports Editor 
Advertising Manager Tom Whelan 

Dan Sandlez Senior Night Editor 
Monday, March 1, 1976 



P.O.BoxQ 
ment. because as all the candidates tuition. Yet. despite this monetary mentioned the Student Govern­support, the library administration ment cannot be made effective by seems unresponsive to the academ­two men -it takes more, it takes a ic needs of Notre Dame students.
Best of Luck 

team! Once Again, First of all, the administration seems to consistently fire those Congratulations, members of the refe;ence who are Mike Sweigart most knowledgeable and helpful. 
Dear Editor: Bill Walsh Secondly, library action on order­ing and reordering books seems Recently, the Student Body unbelievably slow. Last of all, made its choice in electing Mike despite a high rate of book theft
Money's

Gassman and Mike Casey as your and loss, the administration has not SBP and SBVP. We offer our installed a mechanical system to congratulations to them and the prevent theft. Instead, monitors of

Worth?

best of luck in pursuing their goals greatly varying efficiency have 
which they have set. been hired. Because students pay More importantly, we want to Dear Editor: for library services, they should encourage the Student Body to have greater jurisdiction over lib­
actively support and participate Half of the Memorial Library's rary administratiOn. with them and Student Govern-funds are taken from student 
Michael John Zakour


seriously foIks!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Armed Forces Union 103 
.........iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii art b u chwa I d 
WASHINGTON --There is a lot 

"That's the Navy's fault. They "You can't put on your life 'Jf talk that American unions are didn't hire enough carriers. By jacket, Padre. Members of the sertously considering organizing passing shells to the gunner, you Deckhand Dresser's Guild are the members of the armed forces. are taking a job away from some­only ones who can put on your life 
Rumor has it that the unionization one who needs it. The union rules jacket for you."of military personnel will begin at specifically say that chaplains must "When the ship sinks, is it all the end of the year. pray and that's it." right to swim?" 1 can't see anything wrong with "All right, give me my Bible and "Yes, but if you get into. a this. except that if the unions in the I'll start to pray." lifeboat you can't row. That Job 
military get into job classifications classification has been given to the
"I can't touch your Bible. Only

it may be harder for our soldiers, Pastry Chef's Local 135."
members of the Boatswain's Union

sailors and marines to fight another The soldiers may also find them­
can move a Bible from one place to 

war. another. selves in trouble. Cpl. BarneyHad our fighting boys been McNeil is manning a machine gun
"Oh, for God's sakes. All right,

organized during World War 11 this at Bastogne. As each wave of
I'll sing, 'Praise the Lord and Pass
is what might have happened. 

Germans attack McNeil fires away.
the Ammunition."'
The scene is aboard a battleship. 

dropping them in their tracks. Sgt.
"I'm sorry, Padre, if you're
It has been hit by the Japanese and Roy Bender, shop steward fo~ the

going to sing, you 'II need at least
several sailors have been knocked Machine Gun and Mortar Ftrer's

10 musicians, and since this action
out of action. 

Union, crawls over to him.
is taking place at night they will

A chaplain realizes the serious­"What do you think you're
have to be paid overtime after

ness ot the situation and starts doing, Barney?"
midnight."

passing shells to the gunners as he ''I'm killing Germans," Barneysings, "Praise the Lord and Pass "We're at General Quarters. says, letting another blast go.the Ammunition." Where am I going to get 10 
"You're killing too many Ger­

The shop steward comes up to musicians?" mans!" Bender shouts at him. him. "I'm sorry, Padre, but you "You can use a phonograph, but "Slow up or the other guys will can't pass shells to the gunner. you'll have to pay for a standby 
think you're an eager beaver. Out orchestra.''
You're not a member of th Amuni­contract says we're not supposed to tion Carrier's Local No. 4." "It doesn't seem to make any kill more than 10 Germans a day. I 
"But," the chaplain says, difference," the chaplain says. can see a hundred bodies over "there aren't enough men to pass "we're sinking. I'm puttmg on my there." the ammunition so we'll be free." life jacket.'' •'But dammit, we have to win the 


war," Barney protest~. . 
"Listen, you dope, tf you ktll 190 Germans in an hour the Army wtll expect us all to kill 100 Germans in the same time. Relax, go have a cigarette or get into a crap game somewhere. In an hour we'll ~o into overtime and then you can ktll some more Germans if you want to." 
"But ---, I'm going to win me a Congressional Medal of Honor,'' Barney says. 
"You try it and I'll bring you up on charges with the union board. They can fine you three months J?ay for winning a medal and makmg the rest of us look bad." 
"Here they come agai_n!" B~r­ney says, raking the hortzen wtth bullets. 
Sgt. Bender is hit in the sh­oulder by a German fragment. "I'm hit, Barney! Stop the bleeding.'' 
"I'm sorry, Sarge. If I touched 

you the Corpsmen's Union would "Touche!" "Touche!" never forgive me." 

opinion~~~~~~~~~~~ 


New American Revolution 
-----------robert jacques 

The United States is facing a 
revolution which will be more 
wide-spread, pervasive, and upset­
ting than those which have been 
known by most nations including, 
most recently, Angola and Lebanon 
The revolution-the violent, rapid, 
and radical transformation of capit­
alism into something that is no 

longer capitalism be any means of 
measure. And the day of reckoning 
is soon. 
A number of vital factors point 

towards the collapse of the econo­
my as we know it: 
Growth is an essential of capital­
ism on both the level of the firm 
and the nation. For the nation, 
indices such as the GNP are used 

to measure the annual growth. 
when the GNP dropped S. 7% ( in 
1958 dollars) in 1974 and 1975, 

economists were quick to note the 
concomitant recession and the rise 
of unemployment. When the GNP 
is constant, the economy suffers 
from stagnation-unemployment 
and inflation, but no growth. 
For tJ"te firm growth is necessary to increase earnings so as to make investment more inviting. Funds gained from investors are used to further raise growth and attract more funds. A firm unable to constantly grow will weaken its credit rating and chase away investors, thus causing growth to further decline and more sources of funds to dry up. The tradition­bound cycle is a viscious and inescapable one. 
Two elements sustaining growth for firms ( and therefore the nation) are the availability of long-term capital and inexpensive netural resources. James J. Needham, chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, recently noted that the next ten years will face a shortage of $75 billion in funds, or 30% of the $250 needed. ·With govern­ment and larger corporations get­ting first choice of the money, as usual, the smaller comoanies will get the leftovers--in this decade, nothing. 
Concerning natural resources, enough is said daily in the media. It is sufficient to recognize that availability is decreasing while extraction and processing costs are skyrocketing. 
Another factor of change facing capitalism is the evolution of the relationship between owner and employer and the employee. Workers are beginning to demand and get shares of the responsibility and management of firms and cuts of the profits. At present, most are satisfied with a piece of the action, not the entire pie as socialists demand and which Marx believed the workers would get as early as a century ago. 
This change was recognized by Ted Mills, director of the National Quality of Work Center, when he recently spoke at Notre Dame. Calling it one of the greatest revolutonary events of the century, he noted its "profound" implica­tions and expressed his concern and fear that the upheaval result­ing from its implementation will result in undemocratic structures which will pervade all aspects of society, not just industry and farm. 
Another area of concern is the plethora of red tape which has grown since 1933 and will only serve most firms by hamstringing then in the upcoming crisis when immense freedom and flexibility will be needed if the companies are to survive. There is no reason to believe that improvement will soon be coming. 
One last area to be studied is the trade-off between unemployment and inflation. While always a problem, the trade-off has been bearable in the past: with no unemployment one could suffer low inflation or vice versa. It now appears that no unemployment can be had only with skyrocketing inflation and no inflation with disastrous unemployment. Consi­dering the last recession when inflation was at 6% and unemploy­ment at 9% and considering that economists have no answers, the future looks grim. 
Any one of the factors of change could by itself be weathered by a strong economy over a short period of time. However, it appears that all of them are going to strike simultaneously and with violent rapidity. 
Will the nation's economy be able to withstand such punishment to its already weakened founda­tions? Will it be able to bend and flow with changing needs? Or will it collapse, taking with it other institutions of society and creating hardship, discontent, and uncer­tainty amongst the people of the country and the entire world? 
If you aren't sure or want to know, watch the next twenty years or so. The collapse of the economy is uncertain. But the revolution is imminent! 

c::=::::::)IIIC=::;:)t:JC=:::::)CIC==M)Coi(n=d=a~y,=M)Ci(a=rc=h=1~,)111(9=76=::Mtc __ _!be ob_§~rver 
~~~~~·~w==:::-~oe:-c=~.,tc~==>c:~~==)C"'~ .,~ ..-.. ~oetc -~~~,. ""'c:=:=:::>c>c~~===~oe~oewc==:::>~>c,.U 


theatre ~ 

hsa moore 

own virtue. McKenzie is handsome, strong-voiced. sensitive and natural on stage and is the highlight of this production. 
Abigail Williams, the seductive adoles­cent who invents the game of accusations out of vengeance for Proctor who has refused to continue his sin with her, is perverted sense of love. 
Dan Daily portrays Judge Danforth as more of a fool than the revered spokesman for absolute and twisted Puritan justice, but does so with his usual theatrical skill and ease. Another veteran, William McGlinn. paints the sensitive and torn Reverend Sanford, sounds like Grandpa McCoy and ~ 
is perhaps slightly overdone. With 
precision, Bridget Ragan plays Elizabeth 
Proctor whose cold justice "could freeze 
beer". Her scenes with Proctor couple the~ 
play's two most outstanding performers 
and .are the emotional peaks of the 
evemng. The supporting cast in most 
collegiate productions have a tendency to~ 
~e somewhat weak-this play b no exccp­
twn. 

A versatile set successfully creates a~ 
sense of claustrophobia in the vastness of 
O'Laughlin Auditorium which accentuate.., 
the drama's theme. Pcrhap!> to thl' 
surprise of most, the costumes were~ 
atTuratc depictions of Puritan drt•ss, for 
they arc colorful. varied and printed. quill' 
contrary to the myth which states that 
P.u:itans wore.basic.black. gray. brown :md ~ 
whttc. A mustcal tape opens and do..,es the 
show. a shabby and u nsucces!>ful tech­
nique. creating an "Edge of Night" moocl. 
In fact. one cringes when the bello\\ ~ 
jumped on the play's closing line. Thl' 
abandonment of the curtain call to extend 
the dramatic mood was defeated before it 
had a l:hance ~l~ work. The finale is a SOJT~ ~ place tor a fallmg technique. 
All considered, it is a magniliccnt and 
enveloping production of a great Amerkan ~ 
playwright's art. the most brilliant so far in 
this Bicentennial season. One cannot help 
but be sucked into the tension and tragedy 
and share in the catharsis of John Proctor ~ 
at the conclusion. Danforth boasts, "We 
burn a hot fire here; it melts down all 
concealment." Like Salem's courtroom the 
s.tage becomc.s a .cruci~le and the produc-~ 
t10n burns wtth mtenstty due to Miller's work. We. as audience, do some sweating in its presence. 
The production will run March 4,5, and 6 ~ 
at 8:00 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
H"<"":==>'~K==-,c~tc= 
~ 

caught with an underage girl and has great throwaway lines like: "If I ever sec Sharon again I Think I'm gonna punch... ~ 
her face in." 

"She's My Best Friend" is a retlcctive piece with a forceful melody. It sounds very much like an old Velvet's song with~ lou's effortless lead moving in and out of the foreground. 
"Kicks" which follows is an ominous 
and threatening song with Lou asking ~ somebody at a party what he docs for fun. Over the sounds of coke snorting and 
moronic chatter we have Lou in his best 
punk style forcing his listener to admit he ~ likes cutting people up. The music is just some muted rhythm track that emphasizes the banality of the situation. 
The best song on the lp is the most ~ ferocious rocker of the set, "ooohhh Baby." Behind the blistering lead and 
driving ryhthm, Reed groans and snarls in~ 
a lustful plea for sexual satisfaction. Not all the songs are this good though. "A Gift" is probably the worst thing Reed's 
'~ 


~ ~ 

ever done and shows that he is still capeable of the Olympian feats of stupidi­ty. Also placing a very personal and moving piece like "Coney Island Baby"~ after a silly song about a homosexual hustler is not the most effective use of 
juxtaposition. Still CIB is better than what~ 
I expected and restores the belief that the 
man who wrote Berlin is still capable of 
writing great songs. 
Wtc Wt< W~ Wto """' X 

~~~----------­
Monday, March 1, 1976
the observer
6 








Howard to speak on 'grass roots' in America 
Stan Lee, will speak on Mon. Apr. Cornell, on Apr. 27; and Denis Magazine, was co-sponsored by the Bringing in more "entertain­
by PhD Cackley 
5, at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Goulet, of the Overseas Develop­commission on Feb. 8, as was the ment--type speakers" was some­Senior Staff Reporter 
Lee was the originator of the comic ment Comm., on May 4-5. ~onference "The American Future: thing Pijor said the commission series Spiderman, Fantastic Four, The speakers will deal with A Radical Perspective" which was was experimenting with this se­
Ted Howard. co-director of the Thor and Daredevil; and has done various economic issues from the held Feb. 23-25. mester. "The social commission People's Bicentennial Commission much to develop Marvel Comics. perspective of their organizations, Pijor said one more major spea­doesn't bring in speakers, so we (PBC), will kick off the Academic The Kennedy assassinations will Pijor said. ker will probably be announced for decided we would try' something Commission's second semester pr­be the topic for Allard K. Lowen" Another event .to be co-spon­later . in the semester, possibly besides just academic speakers," ogram of speakers ~ tonight, stein on Wed. Apr. 7 at 8 p.m. in sored by the commission is the Rocky-Biier, a '68 ·graduate and Pijor explained. 
at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. the Library Auditorium. Lowen­Mock Democratic National <;on­halfback for the super bowl-chain­Audience turnout · was also a 
Howard will speak on "The New stein will emphasize the Robert vention from Mar. 3-6. Speaking pion Pittsburgh Steelers. concern for Pijor. He said a Grass Roots Movement to Apply Kennedy shooting. will be Robert Strauss, chairman of ·t·so much is going on this number of speakers last semester Democratic Principles to American The Amazing Kreskin will ap­the Democratic .National Commit­semester that we've had difficulties drew very small audiences and that Life--and How to Participate." pear Sun. Apr. 11, at 8 p.m. in tee, Rep. Don Riegle of Michigan, with scheduling,"Pijor said. He this semester was being planned to 
The PBC is a citizen's group Washington Hall. He will present who will be the keynote speaker, p0inted out that" it is impossible to facilitate &tudent .attendance at the founded in 1970 by Jeremy Rifkin demonstrations of his Extra Sen­Sen. Gary Hart of Michigan, Rep. run speakers against' such events events. Among other actions being to provide "revolutionary alterna­sory Perception powers and his John Brademas of Indiana, and as Mardi Gras, the Sophomore taken, Pijor said the events will be tives for the bicentennial years." abilities as a mentalist. Sen. Patrick Leahy o(Vermont. Literary Festival, or. the Bicenten-publicized more in advance this Rifkin is co-director with Howard, The Academic Commission will Alex Poinsett, .editor of Ebony nial Week. · semester. who has served in that capacity co-sponsor a number of events. An since 1972. economic lecture series beginning 'One of finest panels'
A motto of the commission states on Miu. 2 and 3 with Nancy "If the patriots of 1776 were alive Barrett, director of the congres­today. they·d be raising all kinds of sional budget office, will be co­
Finance club to present forum 
hdl." Rifkin and Howard see in sponsored by the commission with the Bicentennial a challenge to the economics department. by Don Reimer Business. Weisz is a graduate of advisor to the Federal Deposit re~tore democracy and individual The lecture series includes Ja­Senior Staff Reporter MIT and became president of Insurance Corporation and joined rights in America: mes Weaver. of the U.S. Agency The Notre Dame Finance Club Motorola in 1970 at the age of 43. the John Hancock Mutual Fund in This semester's schedule of e­for International Development, on 1958.
will present the sixteenth annual 
On Wednesday at 10:10 a.m.,
\'Cnts was announced yesterday by Mar. 23-24: Carmelo Mesa-Lago, 
Finance Forum Tuesday and Wed­
Sax will speak on Banking Today". Each speaker will talk for ap­Dennis Pijor, Academic Commis­prof. of economics at the University nesday in Hayes-Healy Auditorium proximately 45 minutes, after
of Pittsburgh, on Mar. 24; Peter Sax has been active in government
sioner. 
according to forum chairman Mau­
economic agencies, serving as chai­which a question-answer sessionThe publisher of Marvel Comics, Knight, prof. of economics at 
reen Creighton. rman of the Regional Advisory ,will be held, according to CreightonScheduled speakers for the for­Committee on Banking Policy and The speakers will also be available um include Winston McAdoo. exe­
Practices and attending White to talk with individual students cutive vice president of Prudential 
House conferences on the economy following each session.
Staffs make changes 
Funds; William Weisz, president of 
He holds a graduate business Creighton said the main purpose
Motorola; Samual Sax, chairman of 
degree from Harvard and has of the forum was to give people atIn Scholastic Krepitch was chosen at a staff the board at the Exchange National received several humanitarian aw­the University a "chance to seemeeting last night after which Bank; O.C. Carmichael, chairman ards including the Abraham Linc­how business really does operate."
John Phelan, managing editor of other leadership positions for next of the board at the Associates oln Humanitarian Award. 
the Scholastic, has been elected to year's staff were announced. Corporation; and Daniel A. Miley, She noted that "many other edit the magazine next year. He treasurer of John Hancock Mutual Carmichael, the second speaker factors influence the world of will succeed Sally Stanton as Other staff appointments are Funds. on Wednesday, will discuss "The business" besides the formulas editor. Dom Fanuele, news director; Ted Professor Paul Conway, faculty Citizen Executive: The Last, Best found in textbooks. 
Phelan was elected last night by Robinson, sports director; John ·advisor to the Finance Club, called Hope for Business" at 11:15 a.m. 
Conway explained than when thea combination of the full Scholastic Foster, director of production engi­the group "one of the finest panels A Notre Dame Trustee presently on forum was begun in 1959 the ideastaff and its editorial board. Other neering; Eric Tweedell, chief engi­of speakers that we've had." leave, Carmichael holds a Ph.D. in was to get a group of distinguished
editorial board appointments are neer; Charles Kenney, FM pro­McAdoo, who \\·ill present a case public law and a law degree from expected to be made by Phelan in gram director; and Steve Thomas, study Tuesday at 9:30 a.m. on Duke University. He has also financial executives together to 
AM program director. provide a service for the University
the next few weeks. natural gas resources, is the chief served as dean of students at He emphasized that the forum wasStanton said Phelan may not take financial officer of his corporation Vanderbilt University and as presi­
Arminio said Krepitch has serv­meant to be something for the
full control of the magazine until and holds degrees from Southern dent of Converse College.
ed three years in the radio news entire University communitv.
next year but that they will work Illinois University and Northwest­Miley will present the final talk on 
department and has a summer's
very closely on the last issues of ern University. 'Financial Disclosure: The Media "The fact that the stude-nts put
experience in WSND business af­
this semester. Weisz, who is scheduled to and Regulation" at 1:15 on Wedn­this program together is very
fairs. "We're leaving WSND in speak Tuesday at 11 a.m. will esday. After graduating from important," noted Conway. Nobo­capable hands,'' he said. 
discuss the "Impact of Inflation on Boston College Miley worked as an dy gives them much credit."
At WSND 
ceed Mark Arminio as station A. manager of the campus radio iC / .· 
NOW OFFERING 10 ~ 15% 
iC /'i ~\
station. 
-
iC /./ *'
iC /A/.~~,\ DISCOUNTS ON iC ( {,~ ~ ~
~n;;"is·~···~ 100 CASES OF WINE/liQUOR.

EQUIPMENT ! . ~~' 
: difference!!! : 
: ~-liE fiiOill • 
HOURS: 
e 01!11 JS ''"' • s~~o~T;!v i .·~~· 
• MCAT olnprrotnct : 

MON-SAT
: DAT ..,.. '"!Cf" : Center $8.00 WEEKEND ! ~~ 


""'11
: LSAT ''""' : 
YOIUI""IDUI hooftt
•. GRE • • 
: GMAT ,,udy;··~~~~~· i : Q(AT •
Courltl lhlllrt 
: CpA T "'"':"' u~~U••• : 
•. VAT fapt IKohlotl lor : 
.,.,,., ol c11u •

: SAT 
ltnon• and lor Ult e 
• FLEX ,, 'u"l'"''"""' •
lllllflllll • 


!ECFMG ,.,k,:P'''' i 
• IIIOUtd ltUOftl • 
.: NAT'L MED BDS :
• 
•• NA T'L DENT BDS : 
• 
• Most clanes start 8 weeks : 
• 
pr1or ro E•am • 
Sprmg & F•ll compacts 
•
• Some courses offered on 
: Maoor Ctmpuoes •
• 
INDIANAPOLIS 
6620 GrHnst·ure Ortve 
• 
lndotnipoloa. lnd 46220 13171 842· 1267 
: CHICAGO CENTER 
•
• (312) 764-5151 





~~~·i 
: -o•"""~'"" ~ • 
• ..,...................... ' 11111 • 
• 12121--• 
• 8•t"'t~l " ..AtD' U!. ':•t+H :
i MCAT SOON: 
~.5~.~!~~~~.~!!~i 
9:30 -MIDNIGHT
Freeon Wednesd • ,
=:==:=;:=====t! CATERING 
FREE DELIVERY




KEN'S DEN ! SPECIALLY
:TO THE (with $15.00 minimum purchase.) --HAIR STYLING --ie ND-SMC :COMMUNITY PHONE: 259-0261 
MEN &WOMEN ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••+•• 
ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER • +++++++++++~<~~•.,.~~·~<~~•.,.~"~~~ (LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA) • PHONE 255-6500 : j 
Budweiser® 
APPOINTMENTS PREFERRED • 
d 
Cf) 
• ::..J 






~eagles~ 
+::3

.u +P ~oritt 
100 CENTER COMPLEX
·~ 
Ou ouv•JK~o•rou• STORAGE 
.(1) 
. ·-~ 
TROPICAL 

any regular

GENERAL & IOUTIQUE, , DOLLS. GAMES & AMUSEMENTS, FESTIVE DECORATIVE, I"ERSONAL ITEMS • 
·~ 
OFF priced item 
NOVELTIES, DECORATIVE I'ILLOWS. WOODENWARE I IOXES .~ .. 'SE INCENSE IURNEIS, CANDLES & CANDLE HOLDERS. SMf"'-D. 6.,.et 1.• CESSORIES, IEDSI'READS & SOFT GOODS, VASJ• -'S vf b with this ad. DECORATIVE METALWARE, FIGURINES & CY' lfQ\\\''' \'l •,, 
•c:o ~ 

NATURAL MATERIALS. DECORATIVF ,.. ~~ ~ \\)t\~ o~tCOR, .WHITE PORCELAIN, DINNERW" • t\ \\\6 1\ • q .~tRAMIC MUGS. 
SEIVICE ITEMS, GLA~• • t\\et \ c. ~ • \" ~ :BUSCH® MICH~LOB~ A&Eagle
LIIINK SEIVICE GLASS, MISC. GLASSWARE, • Aft (.e • ~0 ~ SERVICE. I'LACEMATS & NAI'KIN$, 'TAILE TOP A\v"...,oc. ,..Qt\• ..eN UTELSILS, I'OTS & I'ANS, OUTDOOR 
HOUSEkEEI'ING 1-~r'UE$, ACCESSOIIE$. GAIDEN TOOLS 
• 



Monday, March 1, 1976 
the observer 

7 
Irish hockey team sweeps (at last!) 
virtue of its first sweep at the ACCby Tom Kruczek since November 7-8 last year against Bowling Green, move into a After facing the number one, two tie for fourth place with Michigan.
and three teams in the country in Coach Charles (Lefty) Smiththe past three weeks, the Notre pointed out that anything canDame hockey team undeniably was happen with Minnesota playing atfacing the possibility of a letdown North Dakota and with the Michi­for this weekend's series with gan series to be played home-and­seventh-place Minnesota-Duluth. 
home. "Lots of things couldFriday night the Irish showed that happen this weekend. If Minneso­letdown and luckily got out with ta would lose twice and if Michigan their lives, after playing three would lose both games then welistless periods of hockey, yet could end up in third place. But if managing to win 7-5. Saturday we sweep against Wisconsin, thenight, though, Notre Dame came minimum we would end up wouldout and blew the Bulidogs off the be fourth."
icc in a 10-4 slugfest. 
But if the Wolverines sweep,The Western Collegiate Hockey that fourth place tie would not beAssociation now moves into its final good enough because the spot inweek of action in one of its most the event of a tie is decided bybizarre seasons ever. The Irish, by goals-for and , and 
I 
was 1-1 at the period. In the second period, Notre Dame outscored Minnesota-Duluth 
jack Brownschidle excelled on defense and also scored three goals this weekend as ND swept Minnesota-Duluth. (Photo by Tom Paulius) 
ND fencers win four 
by Paul Stevenson 
The Notre Dame fencing team easily out-dualcd four opponents this past weekend, defeating Pur­due (23-4), the University of Illinois (20-7), the University of Wisconsin (19-K) and Miami of Ohio (22-5). The victory extended the Irish streak to 39 straight wins. 


Bengals finish with a blast 
(continued from page 8) Albers around the ring. Albers had been leading up until that moment but it won the fight for Cooler on a split decision. 160 POUNDS -Tom Brennan seemed to undergo a metamorpha­sis in the second round in his fight with Peter Cannon. Cannon car­ried the first round easily but in the second Brennan unleashed a pair of flurries that backed Cannon into the ropes. In the third round Brennan won the fight knocking Cannon down with a right enroute to a unanimous decision. 165 POUNDS -Matt Ratterman won a split decision from Brian Temme in an active but rather uneventful fight. 170 POUNDS -Much the same could be said of Pat Concannon's 
unanimous win over John Thorn­ton. Cocannon showed a strong left jab. 
175 POUNDS-Dan Ruettigcr and Jeff Bartlett mixed it up in a remarkable fight that drew a standing ovation from an apprecia­tive crowd. Ruettiger scored a split decision win, doing his best work in the first and third rounds. 
185 POUNDS -Chct Zawalich appeared frustrated by the clin­ching tactics of the bearded Jim Wolf but he emerged with a unanimous win. 
The captains for all three weap­ons (epee, foil, and sabre), demon­strated their leadership, as they were all undefeated Saturday. Captain of the foil team, junior Tim Glass, an Olympic Trial Team member and All-American, went S-0. Sabre captain, senior Mike Sazdanoff and foil captain , junior Terry McConville were both 6-0 at the conclusion of Saturday's match­
es. 

"Although our starters are young, we have great depth, especially in our seniors," Tim Taylor, assistant coach of the fencing team, stated. "These seniors have pushed our youngs­ters along through the season." 
The seniors were an instrument­al part in this weekends vistories. They put on a fine performance for their final regular home contest, Taylor commented. 
Dueling with the epee were seniors Tom Henzler, who was S-0 on the day, Drew Brehm, who went 4-0, and Bill Ub!Jing, who while only 2-2 on Saturday, upped his season's record to 18-3. 
The senior foil specialists were Tony Arena (4-0), Ray Puckna(3-l) and Ken Kelleher (4-0). 
Working with the sabre were seniors John Packo and Manny Joaquin who were both S-0. 
The women fencers performed equally as well, downing Purdue (6-3) and Miami of Ohio (6-3) in women's foil. Starters Cathy Buzard and Chris Dziqure demons­trated their great ability, while Kathy Valdisseri was a usual stand­out, going 4-0 without having a touch scored against her. 
This Friday the Irish fencers travel to Cleveland to take on Case Western Reserve and Oberlin Col­lege. On Saturday the Irish move to Buffalo where they will meet the University of Buffalo, SUNY at Binghamton, and William Patter­son of New Jersey. 
the Wolverines by virtue of that would edge out Notre Dame from their four-game series. 
There were no ifs, however, about this weekend. Notre Dame won twice. Friday night the Bulldogs got off to a quick start, keeping Notre Dame bottled up in their own end. Irish goalie John Peterson made a key save less than a minute into the contest as he stopped Mike Newton at point blank range after a defensive lapse. 
The Irish got on the board at the 
9:12 mark of the first period as Jack Brownschidle rifled a shot from the point which Bulldog defenseman Curt Giles deflected past goalie Rick Heinz. Monty Jones tied it up eight minutes later, beating Peter­son with a wrist shot that the Irish netminder just got a piece of, and it 
S-2 as Heinz looked helpless, bordering on pathetic, letting in three comparatively easy shots. Irish tallies came by Steve Schnei­der. who is looking better with each game and shows promise to be a 
star.  Alex  Pirus,  Brian  Walsh,  
Clark  Hamilton  and Jack  Brown­ 
schidlc.  

The third period saw the Bull­dogs put a scare into the Irish as goals by Tom Milani. his 24th of the season and Rodney Jones put the score at 6-5 in favor of the Irish with IS minutes left. Both teams played equally listless hockey until there were five minutes to play. Kevin Nugent then grabbed the puck from behind Heinz and bring­ing it in front faked the sophomore goalie out and down. Nugent then flicked the puck to a wide-open Donny Fairholm, who easily notch­ed his 14th goal of the season. 
Peterson, who looked very good 
in goal, made several key saves, turning away 30 shots while Heinz stopped 28. 
Saturday was much different from Friday, as the Irish shook off the cobwebs and began to skate, something they didn't do Friday. Unfortunately, they also did some things which the three officials did not take to, chalking up 30 minutes in penalties including game mis­conducts to Alex Pirus and Kevin Nugeut. Both will miss the first 
WANTED 

Desperately need any NCAA tix. 
Call Laura 4264 any price!! 
Student or GA tix tor Western Michigan. Will pay bucks, call 289 9793. 
Wanted: vehicle able to transport less than $60.00, call 1168. 
Wanted: your laundry to do, com­plete finishing and pressing. Fast service, Monticello Laundromat, 441 
E. Howard St., Phone: 289-0049. 
want ride to and from Denver over spring break. Will help drive and pay for gas. Call Jim 3258, late evenings or at lunch. 
Ride needed to Oklahoma City, call Greg 8833, $$ and drive. 
Need a ride home for break? Wilson Driveaway has cars going to many destinations in the U.S. and all you pay is gas. For information and applications, call Jim at 1745. 
Wanted: sales person that is willing to put out the effort to make good money. CANNOT BE BASHFUL. Apply in person to Honda of Michiana, 4035 US 31 South, South Bend. 
Need ride for two to Annapolis, MD. area for spring break. Call Anne at 7836. 
NOTICES 

Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. 
IBM Selectric II typing. Manuscripts dissertations. Experienced 289-5193. ~ -------------­


Classified Ads 
Traveling during spring break? Cut costs of getting there! Vans and cars to many points in USA, call Auto Driveaway, 232 1414. 
Stratus: qualify rock 'n roll at reasonable rates, Neil 289-9763. 
Typing $.35 per page, pick-up and delivery $2.00, call Dan 272-5549. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: in ACC locker room, one gold braided wedding band. Reward offered, no question asked 277-1568 or 282-7516. 
Lost: gold men's Benrus wristwalch in front of Walsh, 1875. 
PLEASE! If you found a blue wallet, return to 229 Badin or NO Lost and Found, Brenda 6936. 
Lost: one gold Bulova watch inscrip­
tion on 1633.  back.  Reward,  call  Dave  
FOR SALE  
Blank 8-frack 90 min. tapes at a bargain price. 8089. --- Memorex Call Lisa,  
Nikon 53. 35mm. rangefinder 50mm 


11.4 Nikkor Lens, Paul 8131. 
Disneyland Murals from Mardi Gras for sale, call 1348. 
1968 Dodge Charger 318, automatic, power steering, great condition, snow tires and mag wheels included $600, call 272-1710 or 272-4777 after 5:30P.M. 
Florida for Easter? Avoid the airlines strike and buy a '68 Buick 
~;;.~~~eo, i;_ ~0 ~~M~o~:~i~~~~ils. Call
1 

game of next week's series as a result. 
Alex Pirus found his ejection at the 7:13 mark of the first frame following a check he administered to the wandering Rick Heinz. Dave Langevin promptly came over and attempted to punish Pinis for his transgression. Langevin was clear­ly the aggressor in this case, and by rights should have been the only one assessed with the 5-minute penalty and the game misconduct. Smith pointed out that in preseason meetings with the coaches it was made clear that the aggressor in the fight would be given the game misconduct and the other player would receive two roughing penal­ties. 
This didn't happen. Pirus was also chased for the game and Smith reacted to this with a stick-banging incident on the boards, for which another penalty was assessed. this one a bench minor. 
"I should be chastised for get­ting the bench minor," Smith pointed out later. "But Pirus was not the aggressor in the fight and was not justified in getting the misconduct. He had gotten hit with three of four good punches, and a person is only going to take so much before he starts to hit back." End of fight one. 
Tom Milam then capitalized on the opportunity and scored a power play goal. Notre Dame countered with scores by Allen Karsnia, Roger Bourque and Paul Clarke before Monty Jones could retaliate at 14:03. Bourque added his second goal of the period and his fourth of the season to end the first period action at 4-2. 
Tim Byers, filling in one the Walsh line for Pirus. then scored 
~~  NJJ  r---------------------~ THE CRUCIBLE  
SMC  Arthur Miller's po~ul drama exarrining events surrounding the Salem witdl hunts.  
1 H f  I~  1fH  
Mar. 4, 5, 6  
at 8:00 P.M.  

All Seats $2.00 

OlAUGHliN AUDITORIUM
(Std Fac. $1.50) Alone: 284-4176 (St. Mary's) 
once 48 seconds into the period on 
a backhander and again at 5: 16 
from a tight slapshot past a 
stunned Heinz. 

Kevin Nugent then got into the act and at 5:28 found himself and Joe Nelson leaving the game on fighting charges, both getting five­minute misconducts. Nelson also was assessed a two-minute minor for hooking which started the whole incident. Jim Augustine filled in for Nugent on the second line. 
Don Fairholm and Geoff Collier's 
tallies made it 8-2 in the second 
period before Monty Jones scort•d 
the lone Bulldog goal with just mer 
6 minutes to play in the oerinrl 

The third period was rather uneventful with Mike Newton scor­ing once for Duluth. while Steve Schneider and Jack Brownschidlc notched for the Irish in a period where just 12 minutes in pcnalril'~ were called. 
The weekend. which 'i:l\\ ""'.4Jh fan~ come to the game~. 11 a' espel·ially memorable because i1 was Parents-Alumni Weekend for the hockey player.., and the junior class. so the parent~ had a chance to sec the Irish win twice. Individual leaders in ~coring OH't'r the weekend were Brownschidle. who scored thrct• times, along with Schneider. Don Fairholm. Roger Bourque and Tim Bycr~ who each S('Ored twice. Clark Hamilton upped his point totals to 19 goals and 34 assists following live help· ers in the two games. Walsh also had 4 assists while Paul Clarke had 3. 
Next weekend is do or die for the Irish. now 15-13-2 in the league, as they play Saturday at 7:30p.m. and Sunday at 2 p.m. (CST) to rap up another regular season. 
FOR RENT 2 rooms for rent. $40, call 233 1329. 
4,5,6 bedroom houses completely furnished, extremely nice, close to campus, September 1976, 9 month tease, 233-2613 or 232 7263. 
Summer houses and rooms tor rent, real close to campus, furnished, ridiculously reasonable, 233 2613 or 232-7263. 
Furnished houses, two to seven bedrooms, available for September or June, call 234 9364. 
PERSONALS 
Jamie. Congratulations. Now you can lay off Prokofiev. Arthur. 
To the Kid: 
You sultry bitch with fire in your eyes. It was great! many thanks. Cerg, Jim, Doug. 
Shall we dance? Waltzing party March 6, 7:30 P.M. LaFortunE Ballroom, tix $1.50, NO Music Dept 
Wags, 
Congrats! You're fops. JoMac 
To Scot Kelly: 
Thanks for everything. Blue Eyes 
Dear Ruth, 
Is 272 6303 your answering service? 
The Gang 
Why pay more? Get your green and gold, blue and gold, or red and tJtuE· rugby sh lrt for $13. Call DavE' 277-0948. 
H · ? 
avmg a party. Call Dave for low discounts in kegs and cases. 277-0948, free delivery. ~ 


·~.----.,-~-----------­
.. ------------~-~-~-~--~--~--~---·-~ 



8 the observer Monday, March 1, 1976 




Marquette scrambles to 81-75 win 
bv Bill Brink their horrendous first-half shooting. Phe.lps for getting out of his seat Sports Editor Notre Dame shot an ice-cold .275 dunng the play, a rule which is . 
After all the pre-game buildup. points. their lowest output of the called about as often as a spinster the showmanship the psyche jobs season. on Saturday night. When a and the strategy. what it all came "Our shooting in the first half bewildered Phelps demanded to down to was which way the ball killed us." admitted Irish coach know what the "T" was for, he was bounces. Digger Phelps. "You can't shoot hit with another technical. Mar-
Because with less than a minute like that and expect to win. We did quette retained the momentum and to go in the annual Notre Dame-nothing different in the : econd half took a 34-24 halftime lead. Marquette battle the ball bounced except that we hit our shots." ND adjusted in the second half into Llovd Walton's hands, and the The Irish's cold shooting typified by puling Dantley out to a guard Warrio~s kept control and finished the pace of the opening half. The positon, so he could see what was 1\ ith a 81-75 victory over the Irish game progressed slowly, with NO going on. This enabled him to before 11.345 fans in the Notre having trouble against Marquette's counter the box defense by drawing Dame ACT Saturdav afternoon. tight zone defense and the Warri-the flow to him and quickly getting 
The play came in the midst of an or's playing a patient offensive the ball across court to the open lri~h ~urge. one which had brought game. waiting for the good shot. man. The opcn man turned out to thL'Ill '' ithin onc point of the McGuire instituted a stifling box-be Don "Duck.. Williams, and W:.~rrior~. 74-73. Marquette's Wal-and-one dcfcnsc. isolating little unlike the first half. he responded ton had lo~t the hall and a wild Llo~·d Walton on Adrian Dantley with some dazzling outside shoot­~LT.illlbk followed. with NO's Ray because. as he savs, "I wanted ing. So after falling behind 60-46 Martin L'11ming up with it. But someone quick on-Dantley, and with 11:10 left in the game, the \1artin lo~t control ncar midcourt also Earl (forward Earl Tatum) Irish began to tight back. Dantlcy and thL· hall ended up in the hands would have gotten in foul trouble slid around Walton and between of Walton again. who flirted with a earlier... him and another defender several duuble dribble call. then called With Dantlcv down low, and thus times to notch some amazing time out with 0:51 left. Butch Lee. virtually out of· the game, the Irish 'floating' jumpers. and Williams Walton and Bill Neary iced the win offense relied on a few turnaround hit his line-drive jump shots. With 
baskets bv freshman Bruce Flowers 2:16 to go NO had chiseled thefor Marquette. 
and seve-ral rebound buckets bv Warriors lead to five, 74-69.
"The kc~· to the game." said A.D. Meanwhile, the rest of th~ Dantley put in another floater thenWarrior coach AI McGuire. "was Irish performed with more inaccur-added a rebound goal to bring thethat scramble at the end when we acy than the Warren Commission. Irish within one with I: 15 remain­ended up getting the ball back. 
Marquette took advantage of this ing. It was then that Walton picked Despite Adrian Dantley's 25 point effort, the Irish bowed toNotre Dame was charging at us cold streak to build a ten-point up the ball off the scramble to save Marquette Saturday, 81-75. (Photo by Chris Smith)then but we got it. We were very 
lead. using some fancy drives by the Warriors. shot or pass it off. They played a The loss sets Notre Dame'sfortunate to win. it was a one-point guard Butch Lee and a couple of "We were in a semi-delay at the tough ~one: b~t if we could have record at 21-5. They close out theballgame." 
long shots by Tatum. NO's woes end." explained McGuire. "Our gott~n 1t gomg tn the ~rst half like regular season tonight as they hostOnly for a minute. though. The were compounded when the refs kids are all tough to handle in that we dtd the second. I thmk we could Western Michigan.
Irish spent most of the game eight slapped a phantom technical on situation. That's why we go to have won."
to ten points behind. largely due to 
almost a four-guard set-up. Earl Adrian's 19-point second-half ef­Eldon Miller's Broncos have BiII Brink left us for a while there. I sat him fort earned his 25 points for the ~urpriscd everyone whis year, soar­
t=============:==================================================================================================================== 
down and said'Earl. you left us, day. tops in the game. He hit II of mg to a 22-1 record and share of you took. a sabbatical.' But he put 14 shots from the field. 3 of 3 from first place in the Mid-American 111 two tmportant baskets at the the foul line and led all rcbounders Conference. They arc led bv 6'3" 
with 13. Duck Williams was next forward Jeff Tyson who is hitting
The Irish Eye 
end. Dantiey's shots were frighte­
for NO with 16 points and Knight 17.4 points a game. Guard Jimmie ' 
nll1g, absolutely frightening. And he never lets up, you can't get to added 14. Quick Butch Lee topped Harvey has a 13.0 average while 
him mentally. He's like a great the Warriors with 18 points. while center Tom Cutter and forward boxer.·· Walton enjoyed one of his finest Paul Griffith add about II points shooting games all season and per game. Cutter scored 19 points
The box-and-one defense. "It's nothing new," says AI McGuire, . "I came out to a guard position notched 17 points. Tatum had 16 m last year's game which the Irish
"it's been around a thousand years." 111 the second half." said Dantley, It must seem like that to Adrian Dantley. He's certainly seen it "and I could see the whole court and Bo Ellis 14. Again the Irish won 73-71 on two free throws by 
Dantley in the last seconds.
enough. In fact as Adrian puts it. "I've seen everything." then. I could either move for the maintained the rebounding edge 
with a 41-31 margin. Game time tonight is 8:00 p.m.
He has. What kind of defense are you going to throw at Adrian Dantley that hasn't already been tried? Teams have used everykind of zone imaginable. they've used brute force. kamikaze tactics--they've 

Rousing heavyweight bouts end
used everything. 

But Marquette's zone was deadly. It had the best planning and the best personnel that have ever been used against Adrian. In a box-and-one the defender squares off against the player, ignoring the 

45th Bengal Bouts with a blast 
rest of the game, concentrating only on stopping his man. As AI 
by Rich Odioso a round a
McGuire says. "The best was to beat the box-and-one is to take the ''He's good boxer." said right that sent stunned star and tell him to take lunch and go walk on the boardwalk." Becker about Browner afterwards. Ross to the canvas. But Browner 
Capped by two of the greatest
"I hate box-and-ones." says Dantley. "I hate all these zones they "He beat the hell out of my face. shook it off and commanded most 
tights in its storied historv the 45th 
play on me. They should be outlawed like in the pros. You have to go It's a great experience of my life of the fight. In the second round
a roaring
out and play against it for a day to know what it's like. There's nothing Bengal Bouts came to getting my nose beat in like this." Ross used uppercuts to send Mac­
afternoon a 
a human being can do." close Sunday before Jim was subdued but gracious Afee reeling into the ropes.
record crowd of 7,604. Twelve "We both were seemed tired
Dantle~··s performance then was truly superhuman. He broke commenting that MacAfee very in 
champions were crowned although throwing all I round. was
around. over and through Marquette's defense for 25 points. many on sorts of punches. the final Browner a 
there were no real losers in most of 
knew I couldn't knock him out." unanimous winner.
unbelievable off-balance jumpers. He defied the undefiable. He 
the fights. certainly not in the final 
This could be the first in a series of "I was trying to manouver," saidpunctured the box-and-one. 
pair of epic battles.

·'Adrian was just unbelievable," said McGuire with true admiration. Jim Browner-Becker match-ups as Browner of his first round trip to 
Each boxer hit the deck once in 
both indicated they would compete the canvas, "but he caught me with"You can't get to him. can't get him frustrated. He just keeps coming 
the 200-pound battle between Doug 
next year. a good one. My whole body feelsback at you. I think that's his greatest asset." 
Becker and Jim Browner. Becker 
"Boxing's a tremendous sport," like its been through a beating. IDantley also played team ball too. When he wasn't charging 
sent Browner down late in the first 
Becker said. "it's one-on-one. want to thank everybody for
through the zone for a bucket he was snapping quick passes back to his com­
round with a straight left. In the the greatest and are
Nappy's so ing out. All the boxers, win or lose.
teammates who hit the open jumpers in the second half to put the Irish 
third Browner responded with a 
these guys here. Chet Zawalich showed they were men for partici­back in the ballgamc. "Adrian's very unselfish," asserts Phelps. "He 
lightning series of punches that 
taught me anything I know about pating."
got the flow going his way and got the ball back the other way. We're a 
battered Becker to the canvas but 
boxing." "That definitely puts football tobetter team because of what he's sacrificed." 
Becker bounced back immediately 
The climax of the evening came shame." commented an exhaustedBut it's getting to Dantley. He doesn't show his frustration on the 
like a deranged rubber ball and 
in the heavyweight bout where MacAfee. "I didn't think I'dcourt. but you can see it later as he resignedly says "There's nothing I counter-attacked furiously. The Ross Browner and Ken MacAfee knocked Ross out in the first round.
could do, nothing." He beat the defense as well as any player could, 
two appeared as evenly matched as 
threw bricks at each other for three I knew he was so strong andbut it isn't as fun when they stack everything against you. It's work, possible although Becker was awa­rounds. MacAfee landed the well-conditioned that there was no
and when you work, you should get paid. rded a unanimous decision. 
hardest of the . a first putting him away easy."
Tonight. when the Irish square off against Western Michigan, watch Nine other champions were deci­Adrian Dantlcy. It may be the last time you see him here. 
ded. a summary of these fightsIt may not be. Dantley hasn't made his decision about whether to follows: 
return next year and with the NCAA playoffs coming up he's not thinking about it yet. But you should be, because if he doesn't come 125 POUNDS -Law student Bob back. this is it. Mohan came out with a relentless 
1here arc a lot of factors involved. One is a degree, which Dantley windmill attack in the first round has proven he wants badly. Another is the Olympics. which he wants and went one to defeat Dan to compete in. But Adrian is close to his degree, close enough so that Romano in a split decision. he can rctu rn to get it fairly easily. Also. the ABA is close to folding. 135 POUNDS -In a battle of and if it did it would end the price war going on betweetnhe two pro former champions Dave Reyna took 
... leagues for top players. thus bringing his price tag down. And, maybe a split decision from Dave Tezza . \l!arquettc's stifling zone made Dantley think a little about being a 145 POUNDS -Sophomore Pat ~uperstar in college basketball, about whether it's still fun when you O'Connell won a battle of Morris­have to fight and scrape like a dog to play like people expect you to, sey Hall boxers. rallying to stop about the grief you take when a defense geared only at stopping you, Mike Murphy on a split decision. 
ISO POUNDS-Speedy Jim Quinnworks. 
TKO'd Kevin Ricotta at the conclu­
Five years ago. on March 4, 1971. Austin Carr finished out his spectacular career at the ACC with a 31 point performance against, 
sion of the second round. Quinn that's right. Western Michigan. Irish coach Johnny Dee took him and 
opened up his final attack with a the rest of the stars that year, Sid Catlett and Collis Jones, out of the 
series of punches that sent Ricotta reeling. then as Ricotta shied away
ballgame, then put them back in at the end of the game. The crowd Quinn sent tumbling
gave Carr a twenty minute standing ovation. They wouldn't leave the him to the 
canvas with a powerful right. 
arena. They cried as Carr stood on the scorers table and addressed ISS POUNDS -Joe Cooler un­them. 
leashed a hard left early in the thirdWatch Adrian Dantley tonight. He might be back. But if he isn't round and followed it up with agoing to be. maybe he'lllet you know. Maybe he'll give you a subtle series of punches that backed John
sign of appreciation for everything you've done for him. Watch for it, then give it back. (continued on page 7) 





