~--~-----­ ~------------­ 
e  server  
Vol. X,  university of notre dome  - st.  mary's college  Thursday,  February 2&, 1976  

North Quad recount needed 
Haley, Steinman win SLC elections 

by Mary Pat Tarpey Senior Staff Reporter 

Peter Haley from South Quad and John Steinman from off­campus were elected yesterday to fill two of the three Student Life 
Council  (SLC) posts.  The  North  
Quad  representative  will  be  an­ 
nounced  later  today  following  a  

recount requested by North Quad candidate Mary Charchut. 
The election on South Quad was close, with Haley edging Simnick 589-573 out of the 1180 ballots cast there. Simnick also asked for a recount which resulted in a five­vote difference in the totals, but did not alter the outcome of the election. 
The off-campus election which had an 8 percent voter turnout, gave Steinman the victory, 72-56, over Len Moty with 56 percent of the vote. 
The recount request on the North Quad was made by Charchut after learning she had lost the election to opponent Ed Van Tassel by 571­562, a margin of nine votes. 
Concerning the recount, Char­chut explained, "At first I didn't want a recount. Then I was informed that there was a six-vote difference on South Quad after the recount and I was advised that a recount would be best." 
Charchut notified the election committee of her decision after the majority of the committee already left. Bridget O'Donnell, Ombuds­man director, stated, "The recount will be held Thursday night be­cause I have no manpower.'' 
She added it would be best to wait until tonight because "we want it to be done carefully." 
South Quad voting 

Pete Haley, who had only 32 percent of the votes compared to 
Simnick's 42 percent in the primary 
election, carried eight halls Alum­
ni, Cavanaugh, Dillon, Howard, 

Lyons, Morrissey, Pangborn and 
Walsh. Haley did best in Lyons 
where received 72 percent of the 
vote. 

On the other hand, Simnick, who 
carried the remaining six halls on 
South Quad, did well in Holy Cross 
where he collected 76 percent of 
the votes. He also had strong 
support in Sorin Hall where his 35 
votes gave him 65 percent of the 
votes. 

In Lewis, Simnick received 60 
percent of the votes with 55 votes 
cast, and in Fisher he accumulated 
46 votes for 66 percent. 

The remainder of South Quad 
halls were relativelv close, with 
neither of the candidates receiving 
more than 55 percent. 

Haley stated. "I would like to 
express 'my appreciation to all 
concerned. 

Haley said he wished to hold 
comment on any future plans. "I 
won't be able to say anything 
definite until I get involved." 
Simnick, who was the victor in 

Monday's primary, said, "I would 
like to thank everyone for coming 
out and voting. I would also like to 
thank the people who worked for 
me." 

"Simnick added, "I hope I helped stimulate interest in Stud­ent Life Council. 
·North Quad race tJght 

The race on North Quad was 
tight in all halls. Neither of the 
candidates was able to get more 
than 55 percent in any hall except 
Zahm and Stanford. 

After the first count, Van Tassel led, holding four of the seven halls. He carried Farley with 55 percent of the vote. He also was strong in Planner, Keenan and Zahm where 
he received 50,53 and 64 percent of The North Quad had a slightly the votes, respectively. higher turnout with I, 139 voting 
Charchut was able to win in out of 2,340 for 49 percent, an Breen-Phillips, Grace and Stan­increase of 35 votes over last year. ford, with the largest' margin in The South Quad ~esidents cast Stanford where she received 99 I. 180 votes or 4i percent of the votes for 56 percent. population. This figure represent­
ed 46 more votes than last year.

Voter turnout 
The only drop was off-campus where i28 students voted for 8The total voter turnout was J8 percent of the vote, compared topercent as 2,447 students voted out the 148 who voted last vear.
of a possible 6,847. This surpassed the 2,386 students who turned out Matt Cockrell, counter for the for last years SLC elections. elections, commented on the re­count, saying he was not surprised that tpe candidates asked for a recoutft. 
Cockrell also stated, "We were extremely careful. Our procedure was that one person called out the candidate voted for on the ballot while the other ticked it off on a mas tel' sheet. After everything was count~d. we counted the ballot~ and the tick marks again and made sure they matched so we did insure that it's fair." 
He added "We did everything we could think of to make it fair." 
Fr. Hesburgh answers questions at informal Stanford discussion 
by Barbara Breitenstein Staff Reporter 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Univer­sity president, responded to ques­tions on University and national problems for about 60 students in an "informal discussion" last night in the Stanford Hall chapel. 
Stating, ''I'm perfectly willing to tell you about anything," Res­burgh commented on the problems of over-crowding in the business school, the over-emphasis on com­petition and professional aspria­tions of many students, the sex regulations of the University and the lack of leadership and poor quality of policies in the country. 
"I've had conferences with all the deans," he said, "and we're trying to get the business students to take more courses in other areas. 
We're trying to move some faculty toward business, but the trouble is moving the faculty where the students move. 
Due to a possible over-load of tenured professors in a certain department, Hesburgh continued, 
Rectors view resident assistants; look for balance, NO experience 
by Patrick Cole Senior Staff Reporter 

EDITOR'S NOTE: This Is the sel'Ond of a three-part series exam­Ining the role and responsibilities of resident assistants. The first part looked at resident assistants (rom the viewpoint of the admin­Istration and at the selection pro­cess. The second part will examine resident assistants from the view­point of the rectors. The third part will discover how the resident assistants look at their role. 
Before the semester ends, the rectors of resident halls will have to make an important decision: which resident assistant to choose for sections of their dorms. 
Rectors usually seck the candi­date for their halls. The rectors examine the file of acceptable resident assistants developed by the Office of Student Affairs. 
Grad student or senior? 

Do rectors have a preference for graduate students or seniors? 
··Rectors prefer graduate stu­dents with the extra years, or a senior who is accepted by his peers," Fr. Terence Lally, vice­president of Student Affairs, related. 
"As long as the student has the good qualities, the rector will base it on that," he said. • 
"I don't have any preference," 
said  Fr.  Carl  F.  Ebey,  rector  of  
Fisher Hall.  
''One  of  the  most  effective  

resident assistants I knew was a junior," he pointed out. At one time, juniors occupied the resident assistant position. 
Fr. Matthew M. Miceli, rector of Cavanaugh. tries to achieve a balance in the background of his residence assistants. 
"In a re~idcnt assistant, I look for someone who has interest in the students, someone who can help academically--I don't want to get all lawyers or engineers, a student who shows leadership, and llookfor a type that will be around the dorm a lot," Miceli emphasized. 
"In Cavanaugh," he continued, "I have a student who majors in music, one law student, an English student, two in accounting, one MBA student, and one chemical . engineering student." 
*
Observer 
Insight 

"I try to get a balance in this hall,'' he added. 
Sr. Jean Lenz. rcctress of Farley Hall. prefers a resident assistant that "has had some experience at Notre Dame." 
"I don't mind a graduate student new to the campus," Lenz stated. "For example, I have one graduate student with valuable experience who was a resident assistant at another college. So I decided to include her on the staff." 
"There are advantages to both," said Fr. James L. Riehle, rector of Pangborn Hall for three years. "My mind is not closed to anyone. It depends on the person's qualities, but I do not have any preferences." 
"The biggest advantage of hav­ing a graduate student is that they are usually here for more than a year." Miceli pointed out. "Some­times you can count on a graduate student for two or three years," he said. 
The rector and resident assistant 
The resident assistant has a 
responsibility to work with the hall 
staff to maintain order in the 
residence halls. 
What is the role of the resident 
assistant as seen by the rector? 
''A resident assistant is someone 
who works with the student," Lally 
mentioned. "His responsibility is 
to help the student in any way he 
can." 
Ebey expressed his views on the resident assistant's role. "I see the resident assistants as 'supermen,' he said. "They must act as a counselor, friend, authority, and staff member." 
''The eftictive resident assistant is someone who personalizes their effort, someone who makes them­self available to others," he ex­plained. 
Ebey has confidence that the resident assistants do their job. 
"I trust that the job will be done," he mentioned. "I don't have a checklist to make sure they do their responsibility. I hope I would be aware if something wrong is happening." 
"To build community in the hall is the main function of the resident assistant," said Lenz. "While discipline is important, I don't see their whole role as a disciplinary 
one." 
(continued on page 7) 

There are too many people becoming lawyers and doctors now," Hesburgh explained. l have this theory that large numbers of students here represent families or classes of people on the way up, but when on the way up, they feel they have to have some security by becoming a professional, like a doctor or lawyer." "I wish everyone around here 
would  not fall  into that rut,"  he  
said.  
"It is  good  to  be just  a  wise  

man," Hesburgh continued, "but competition is a fact of life . It's a competitive world, too competitive. 
There's nothing on earth you can do that you won't be compared to other people." 
Discusses aemallty 

Commenting on the recent Vati­can statement on sexuality, Res­burgh discussed the state of sex­uality today. 
''Sex is considered vulgar and ct)eap today, but it shouldn't be trivial or petty or meaningless. It should be meaningful," he remark­ed. 
"The important thing for the Church is to put out a good statement on sexuality with a fresh new way of saying it," he said. 
"The rules we have on sex are important because they have to do with exploiting people and with this meaningfulness,'' Hesburgh added. 
National leadership 

Hesburgh also discussed his opinions on the quality of leader­ship in the nation. 
''It is full of ambiguities, in many areas," he stated. "There is not a very consistent foreign policy today. It is geared to the use of 
~power." 
He compared the amount of time which the policy allots to world powers with that alloted to the "poor" countries. 
'' Kissenger spends 99 percent of his time with the powers of the world, and last week we went for the first time to Latin America," he continued. "There is no reason on earth that there should be such great pockets of poverty in the richest nation on earth." 
"There are festering-problems that are getting worse. We spend so much for armaments that we can't spend money on the prob-­!ems," Hesburgh stated. 
"We need a complete new look for things," he said. "This is the one country which could really 
show how people can live togetherwith tolerance and peace." 
"It is a great dream and we are not true to it because we don't have the leadershio." he continued. 
Comments on alcohol 
Hesburgh also .repeated his statement on the alcohol policy, made at the Town Meeting two weeks ago. 
"] wish the drinking age were down to 18," he said, "and I wish there were placesori campus where­students could learn how to drink in a fairly relaxed way." 
The trouble with drunkeness comes when they need a special means to get to places and have· to drive back and forth across lines, he said. Hesburgh added, "It is an uncivilized way to drink." 
The sports program at Notre Dame and privacy were other topics Hesburgh discussed during his hour-long talk. 
. The University reserves the right to enter a room when deemed necessary, according to the hous­ing contract, one student pointed out, and Hesburgh replied, "It should be done by way of serious exception only," he said. "Your room is your castle and you have a right to privacy." 
Hesburgh stated he did not know the circumstances of the removal of a sign on Dillon Hall by Fr. James Burtchaell, University Provost, last semester :tnd would not comme'nt on the case. 
The controversy involved a "questionable" ,sign which was removed by University officials who entered a student's' room 
(continued on page 7) 

B""--------­
--~ 

the observer Thursday, February 26, 1976 
,_,___News Briefs--­
I==================International 
US Embassy officials released 
BEIRUT, Lebanon-Leftist g: .....rrillas yesterday released two U. Us. Embassy officials kidnaped last October, a spokesman for the Lebanese Socialist party reported. 
=============================National Dick wants to divorce Liz 
NEW YORK,--Richard Burton wnats a quick divorce from Elizabeth Taylor so he can marry Susan Hunt, a 27-year-old British blonde he has been seen with lately, columnist Earl Wilson reported yesterday. 
The Burtons were first married in 1964 after a romance that began in Rome while they were making the motion picture, "Cleopatra". They were divorced June 6, 1974, and remarried last October 10 in Botswana. 
I================================Local Explosion kills one; two hurt 
KOKOMO , lnd.-One man was killed and two others injured in an explosion and fire that erupted when sparks from a welder ignited grain dust in an elevator here, officials said. 
Fire officials said that 800,000 bushels of corn in the building were still burning as of 8 p.m. The elevator holds 2.3 million bushels. 
--On Campus Toda!J'_. 
3:30p.m. 

--computer course, "cobol," rm. 115 comp. ctr. 
4 p.m. --seminar," "electron tunneling mechanism and its alternative in radiation chemistry of aqueous solutions at 77k," by dr. kiochi p. funabashi, n.d. rad. lab. 
4:15 p.m. --lecture, "the ubiquitous platinum catalyst as a single crystal," by dr. eugene petersen, rm. 269 chem. eng. bldg. 
8 p.m. --lecture, "the wasp and the bottle: charles pierce and the logic of science," by prof. max firsh, smc clubhouse. 
8 p.m. --concert, "music of ives," jose serebrier, little theater. 
8 p.m. --boxing, bengal bouts, ace arena. 
8 p.m. 

--symposium, "an evening with art," by dolores frese, moira geoffrion, sonia gernes and sue seid lib. aud. ' 
Goldwater favors extension of Nixon's China vacation 
PEKING AP-Richard Nixon United States that Nixon could do 
predicted Wednesday night that the country a favor by staying in China and the United States will China. He also accused Nixon of 
complete "the bridge of understan­breaking a law by making state­ding, mutual respect and lasting ments in Peking about U.S. foreign 
friendship" begun four years ago. 
policy.He told his guests at a banquet 
He said he referrred to the Loganclosing his visit to Peking that both 
Act which reserves foreign policynations share a common interest in discussions for the president and 
helping to build a "new world in 
secretary of the state. There was which every nation, large and 
no immediate comment from the 
small, can be free to chose its own 
Nixon party on Goldwater's re­way to be independent and to live 
marks. without fear of aggression from any 
Earlier in the day Nixon denied 
power.'' 

he had criticized the Helsinki 
The Nixons invited 300 guests to declaration in a banquet toast the banquet in the Great Hall of the Sunday night and that he later People. The engraved invitations applauded a song calling for "liber­
began: ation" ofTaiwan. · 

''The Former President of the An aide quoted him as saying in 
United States of America and Mrs. 
connection, with the toast, "MyNixon cordially invite ..." 
God, I've used that a dozen times before and I used it in a generalGoldwater comments context.'' He referred to his banquet comment that it is naive to 
About the time the banquet was 
believe that the signing of state­
underway t in China, Sen. Barry ments alone will bring lastingGoldwater, R-Ariz., said in the peace. 
Statement interpreted
(*The Observer1 
Some quarters had interpreted Night Editor: Bob Brink the statement as critical of Presi-Assistant Night Editor: Jim dent Ford and Secretary of State Stevens Henry Kissinger for joining the layout Staff: Laura Beth Hart, Soviet Union in the Helsinki agree-Claire McCarthy, Matt "scrib-ment of European security and bles" Kane, Giacomo l'artista cooperation. But both Ford and D' Aurora (isn't that a funny Kissinger said they saw no criti­name?) cism. Day Editor: Don Reimer As for applauding the song, he Copy Reader: Kathy Mills said he was simply being courteous Features: Chris Smith to his hostess, Chiang Ching, wife Sports: Fred Herbst of Chairman Mao Tse-tung. "I Typists: Susan Shellenbarger, stood for a lady who was standing, Judy Arenson not for the song," he said. His 1~ight Controller: Bob Stein-applause was notably limp com par­
. \,metz .5 , -s :·.{•• ;e_d ~.th ~e~ ~avish c~app_ing ...• 
;.,, ,, ~'''·,._ •• , ....... ,. ... cr •• _... ..'t····.•,,. ~··· .,. .J, .. ,_ ..: 


India's current sterilization trend criticized by communist party 
disincentives can only make the to government employees, a smali NEW DELHI India AP-India's disparities more callous.'' percentage of the reproductivedramatic turn toward sterilization population of the country.
to curb the crippling birth rate was 
Plan outlined

critized Wednesday as unfair to the Poor may suffer 
poor. 

The plan, which is expected to
The Patriot, a daily generally become a model for new legislation Both p<;J.pers also pointed out that supporting the pro-Moscow Com-
in several Indian states, provides under the new plan the poor, munist party in India, sharply 
preferential consideration for gov­especially in the villages, might ernment jobs to applicants with suffer the most because of lack ofattacked the Delhi administration's 
small families. easily available and inexpensivenewly announced system of penal­ties and incentives to convince 
The plan also bars current gov­birth control means. ernment employees from certain The Delhi plan does not go as far
government employees and Delhi residents to limit their families to job benefits and government hous­as draft legislation in the states of ing unless they agree to limit West Bengal and Maharashtra
two children. "The measures constitute a glar­families to two children or undergo calling for compulsory sterilization ing discrimination that directly sterilization if they already have of either partner after a couple has more.
contravenes the spirit of social had three children. The West justice," The Patriot said in an The Indian Express, largest cir­Bengal proposal mandates fines, 
culation daily in India, gave quali­imprisonment or both for coupleseditorial. 
"If it is true that the poor fied support to the new iniative but who do not undergo sterilization. families are larger and less planned joined the Patriot in pointing out The new sterilization iniative than the rich, such incentives and that the Delhi plan applies mainly follows government acknowledg­ment that its traditional family planning aproaches will not pre­
vent this country of 600 million from growing to one billion by the end of the century. 
First Undergraduate Press 
established by Harvard U. 
The Observer is published Monday
The Undergraduate Press, the first 
through Friday <Yld v.Eekly during the
man. including fiction, collectionsknown American book publisher 
surrrrer session, except during the
of poetry. and writings on social or 
exam; <Yld vacation periods. The
run entirely by college students, 
Observer is published by the students
political themes of immediate con­has been established by a group of 
of the Univ. of Notre Darre a1d St.
cern to an undergraduate audience.Harvard undergraduates who will 
Nla"y's College. Subsaiptions may be 
Outlines and correspondence may
publish three books in the coming year. The purpose of the Press, accor­ purcnased tor $18 ($10 per serrester) be sent to the Undergraduate fro, The Observer, Box Q, Notre Darre, lndi<YJa 46556. Sea:lnd ClassPress. Harvard University, Cam­postage paid, Notre Darre, IN 46556. bridge. Massachusetts, 02138.  
ding to John Whitman, a senior  
from Bethesda, Maryland and its editorial chairman, is to give both fledgling editors and young writers  . . . DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS •  
a practical introduction to the publishing field. Original funding will be provided by grants from the  f()~V'c-JEWELERS ~  
Harvard University Press and friends in the communications pro­fession.  ~--SINCE.1917 : 0  
"Right now there is no well-es­tablished route," said Whitman, "for college students to get general experience in publishing. Some  Downtown South Bend ••Town & Country Shopping Ce-nter , Concord Mall, Elkhart 'Biackmonds, Niif!s .:  
hard professional experience is  I I fOI"I 101"1 fOI I fOI"I fOI I fOI I f01·1 fOI:I· fOI I fOI I  
almost a necessity for entering this  
field. We are excited about offering a partial remedy to thisi  SPECIAL 10% DISCOUNT ON AL  
situation." "For young writers," continued  MERCHANDISE TO NOTRE DAM  
Whitman, "we hope that a small organization run by students, like  & ST. MARY'S STUDENTS  
the Undergraduate Press, will pre­ 
sent a possible alternative to the  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
rejection slips received by so many talented writers."  ~RMANDO IS NOW LOCATED NEAR CAMPUSf  
Joining Whitman on the execu­ fTO GIVE YOU THE CUT OR STYLE YOU WANli  
tive board for the current school year are Elizabeth Bounds, a junior  lc7f7.manJo'j_ ~a7.bt:7. & d-fai7. 3t:;L~ Sf;'-'/.! f  
from New York City, managing editor; John Chesley, a sophomore from Pittsburgh. business and  vPEN SIX DAYS A WEEK ~ MC. · THRU FRIDAY 8 TO 5 30 5'1TURDAY tJ TO 4 f  
promotion manager; and Bruce Brumberg, a senior from Rochester  t PE:RSONALIZED SERVICE t  
New York, production chairman.  i ARMAND() FEMIA 1437 N. IRONWOOD DR A  
In a spring competition, they will  ' PHONE 277·06'5 SOUTH BEND. INDIANA '  
select about 30 other students to work within four divisions--editori­ f FOR APPT. f  
al, business, promotion, and prod­ 
uction.  
A Board of Founders, composed  
of publishin_g professionals, will  
counsel the Undergraduate rress.  
Members include Simon Michael  
Bessie, senior vice-president of  
Harper & Row Publishers, Inc.;  
David Godine, president of Godine  
Press; Helen Meyer, president of  
Dell Pt.Jblishing Company, Inc.;  
and Arthur J. Rosenthal, director  
of Harvard University Press.  
The Undergraduate Press plans  
to give priority to works by writers  
affiliated with universities, especi­ 
ally those of notable interest to  
college students, Whitman said. The Undergraduate PrP.ss invites manuscripts from all areas of composition, according to Whit- WINTERHAWK1M -TH 7:15 , 9:15, F 7:45, 9:45  
s;s 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 1:45, 9:45  
ERRATUM  BUSTER AND BILLIE  
The article in yeste~day's Obser­ver incorrectly stated where profits  ~ M -Th -F -SIS 7:30. 9:30 L TARZAN AND JUNGLE  
from deposits for special "Quick­ie" bus service would go. Profits from deposits for bus service for hall parties at The Four Flags in  BOY SIS 1:30, 3:30, 5:30 · l]()ller-llf)use t=lix  
Niles, Mich. will go to the Student Union Social Commission, not to  255 -9575  
the Ombudsman Service.  


Thursday, February 26, 1976
Platforms in Campaign '76 the observer 



Students present candidates'views 
by Mary Beth Mlracky Staff Reporter 

Personality was the key to last night's Campaign '76 panel discus­sion as Wendall Walsh successfully stole the show with his three-piece blue suit and polished delivery. The audience response was the spark for a lively discussion. 
Mock Convention Campaign Coordinator Harry Capadano intro­duced the representatives to a crowd of over 100 students in Hayes-Healy last night. The event was the second of its kind this week and involved speakers for Morris Udall, George Wallace, James Carter, Sargent Shriver and Birch Bayh. 
Scott Brinkman, a junior gov­crnment major, spoke for Udall, l'itiHg his pro-environment stance, his concern over living standards, l'ivil liberties devotion and his proposal to break price fixing. 
Doug Kenyon followed with a presentation on Wallace, who is running. according to Kenyon, "because he believes our nation has suffered too long from crises at home and abroad. 
Carter was represented by Mar­ita Spadola who outlined his bio­graphy and noted his emphasis on the reorganization of government burcaucraey and his environmental protection laws which, she stated, were among the strongest in the nation. 
Joe Anderson, a sophomore ac­counting major, gave an introduc­tion entitled, "This is Your Life, Sargent Shriver," followed by Walsh's opening remarks contrast­
ing Bayh to. the other candidates, with his "liberal philosophy,.. 
strong record and his ability to "withstand the test," according to Walsh. 
The program centered around four questions put to the candidate representatives by Capadano. 
The audience was invited to participate after each question was discussed among the panelists. The final minutes were devoted solely to audience questions. 
Unemployment discussed 

Unemployment brought a unan­imous response from the panel in support of the philosophy "every American has the right to a job." 
Both the Shriver and Wallace 

representatives mentioned tax cuts among possible solutions and when asked how to enforce such a cut, the Shriver man replied, "In good times, tax more. In bad times, tax less. It's as simple as that." 
The next topic was energy. According to Carter. "The mis­handling of the energy problem is a cause of the current economic crisis." 
Udall, according to his spokes­man, is opposed to nuclear power because it is too dangerous, and the Shriver representative called for more information on nuclear energy to prove its safety. 
Carter favors strict environment­al protection laws, according to Spadola, "even at the cost of losing new industry. 
Fiscal changes favored 

Fiscal policy comes to "reappor­tionment," according to Walsh, as defense spending is used to pro­vide jobs and solve the problems of 
Cri!~~!.,nee~,~~~..!~ pres~,~~~ ideals i ~~Ch~~::~~::::mmo~~noo! 
Staff Reporter 

Our society institutions must renew their commitment of critical roles to remain independent from state and corporate powers and act as mediators forsocial renewal, Dr. 
Rosemary Ruether, Howard Uni­versity theologian, said yesterday. Ruether spoke to approximately 1SO people on ··Humanity s ulotJal Crises: America's Responsibility" in Washington Hall. 
Such critical roles are to be advocates of our American ideals 
and should attempt to defend our 
democratic institution, she con­tinucd. 
Ruether claimed, "Presently a deterioration of these institutional roles is occurring and can be 
political system have feelings of being betrayed as we see a decrease in our self-deter­
minism,justice and prosperity, she no~eudrthermore, according to Reu· ther, government and corporate
business "must be cloaked with a great web of deceit to make us believe they participate in foreign intervention only to free peoples 
from oppression when the main
intention is to finance military 'coup's' in Latin America for purposes of obliterating the facade 
of elected governments in such countries." From this. noted Ruether, "In reality, there's an increasing con­
sciousness  of  a  sponsoring  of  
militarydictatorships."  
Ruether covered many  areas  of  

confrontation between two Ameri­
cas, "colonial reality -what is actually occurring and ideological rational -what Americans believe to be occurring." These confronta­
tions included important questions that faced our society in the early 60's and 70's, among them civil 
rights, the poverty movement and government secret intelligence. 
Ruether, elaborating on this last subject, said, "Our government has come to rely on a vast network of secret intelligence to pool money 
into militaristic regimes while ap­
pearing to promote democracy and 
Here again she related back to an ideological rationale of Americans 
~~~fnv~~~ ;e~;et;e:~~r:~s~~. ~~~r~ 
from a colonial reality rationale, government is actually· contribut­ing to militaristic regimes. 
This governmental insurgencyabroad has ahd certain negative affects in the United States by giving less attention to problems at home, Ruether noted. City health, education and many other deficient ares in our society should be of more concern to our politicians, she stated. 
Ruether has been named of 11 

major shapers of Christian Thought and Life.' She spokeas part of the lecture series ''The American Fu­ture: A Radical Perspective," which commemorates the national 


~~ 

<;ampaign '76 panel members represent their presidential candidates for this year's Mock Conven­
hon [Photo by Tony Chifari] you_th in Bayh's plan. Carter and s_treet," said Bayh's representa-Shnvcr .w~uld also cut . defense ttve. budgets.111 favor of d~mesttc needs, Udall's spokesman mentioned, but Shrtver would mcrease gov-"In the future our economic ad­ernn~ent sp~nding altogethe:. _ac-vantages should be exploited to the cordmg to hts spokesman, butldmg fullest degree" in order to equalize
.. I t .. . d 
up peop e ype agenctes. etente. 
Udall would see "all welfare Only Wallace wanted to increase assum~d on th_e federal level," defense spending, while Bayh'!. accordmg I? Bnnkman, but Wal-representative came on strongly ~ab~l~twouldd mcrethase state .respbonds-wk.i t ~. ?·:~hy promote dollars for 
1 

1 1 Y a? cut e c_xecuttve u -I11 mg · . . . get, whtle encouragmg t.he space T?e open dtscusston wtth the program, defense spendmg, nuc-audtence revealed both Udall and lear de_ve~opment, public works Wa~lace are ag.ainst the multi­approprt~twns ahnd funds. for the naWttona1 corporations. .. nav~ an mere ant matmes, as a11ace wants to turn the outlined by Kenyon. econo"!r back . to the United 
Defense and foreign policy were States, accordmg to Kenyon, discussed with the panel •
next, .,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..._.._.._.._.,..._.._.,..._.._.,.,.,..,..,...., coming out in favor of detente, but, ~ M • d ::IIIII 
"we cannot let it become a one-way i anagement-onente i 
In response to Watergate, Rue-~ be the second largest city in the state of lllinois), will be on ~ ther cited the scandal "as a broad ::IIIII fl! 
:!~~~~ ~ov::~~s:nt a~~accc~~~::bl: i ~=~::s~~!sru:~· ~:~dto.:~!=~~~n~r ~ 
to Congress using tools and agen-I· opportunity with outstanding growth potential in the retail ~ cies of an idternational cold war to ~ autorm~ile business. We are interested in young, ~ defend itself against the American ~ aggresstve sales personnel who will have the knowledge and fl! public" ::IIIII abilit t0 gro 'thth fut 1 0fth ~ As for our future and avoidance ~ y WWl e ure P ans e company, who will ~ of the second Reconstruction per-~ lbe able to rmve on into management positions and become ::11111 iod, Ruether stressed "the need for ~ eaders of men. ~ our institutions of church, univer-I The personnel we are seeking should have the desire for an ~ sity, and the press to retain some ~ ambitious career which would lead them to dealership ~ autonomy in retaining their manda-~ management-ownership. ~ tory roles of social criticism." ::IIIII iilll She also noted the existence of ..._.,..._.,..._.._.._.,..._.._.,...._.._.,..._.._.._.._.,..._.,..._.._.._....aii 
informative and public groups of 
concerned individuals whose pro­jects are based in Washington with the purpose of exposing and con­trolling, by public newsletter, the apparatus of secret government. 
avoided." This is apparent when ··I'!I~!!!!!!I•!!I!!!I!J!!!I•IIIII!~!!I!III!I..•~·-·-11111111•1!!!!1~ our causes us to 
F .Dn a r 0
•car . 
\ orelf, 

'.J,I Parts & accessories for imported cars. 11.::::1 for all makes at lowest prices. ' 
,Oistrobutor ******* 272 _ 7187 *********
* 

*For ND Students, Faculty & Staff-~ :+ 10 percent !discount with I D & * ~pur chase of $ 10 or more. * 
*************"'* ~*********j 
THE NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 
d 

announces au itions f GQDSPELL
Of 

by Tebelek and Schwartz 
Singing Auditions: 

Sun. Feb. 29 at 1:00 P.M. a1d 7:00 P.M. Acting Auditi~~hington Hall Stage 
u--March 
1 

IYUI. at 6:00P.M. WashinQton Hall Lab Theatre (Use Rea-Stairway) To be considered for a role everyone m.Jst attend both singing ald acting auditions. 
M.Jsical preparation is required. Audition materials available at Room no,~ ~al! 
'************************************ 
Jt
* 
* 
~
* 
:+
*
* 
* 
~ ~ 
*
*
* 
: 
:+ :+
* 
* 
*~ * 
~ 
; 
; 
* .... 
lt 
* 
*~ 
** 

while Udall would break up the "pricc-tixing monopolic!. under the disguise of corporate competition," as Brinkman stated. 
Bayh is the only candidate to speak out in favor of btt ·· 11
Sl g.
According to his representative Walsh. "We've got to ke · alternatives open." ep our 
He stated busing was a means of attaining the best education pos­sible. Walsh said that Bayh will 
oppose any anti-busing legislation. 
At the end of the progran Jo Barbera, assistant campaign ~~ord~ inator, commented, "Audience participation was good and 1 think the candidates conveyed their views well." 
* 
:+
* 
* 
: 
:+
*
* 
* 
: 
~ 
*
*
* 
:
* 
*
* 
lt 
*~ * 
"'~~ -• _ / '1/-##~ ~ 
~ ,.,L;.,f¥"' :::: 
....
IN CONCERT ; 
....
S d :+ 
un ay March 28 * 
ACC lt ~
*
* 
Tickets go on sale Monday morning *
* * 
: March 1 at ACC and Student Union ~
* ; 
l4-Jt 
* $6 & $5 * 
lt *
* * 
: Student Union & Sunshine Promotions~ 
************************************ 
~-­

---------------------.­
the observer Thursday, February 26, 1976 
Carole Moore lectures on feminism 
By Karen Sikorski Staff Reporter 

''Choice is the basis of the feminist movement," Assistant History Professor Carole Moore told a predominantly female audi­ence in a lecture on feminism at the Librarv Auditorium Tuesday night. 
"Fe-minists do not say we should cease to be mothers, cease to be wives, or cease to be in love," she said, but added that women and men are deprived of choice "from the time we receive pink or blue booties." 
._,peaking on feminism in the context of the history of American women. Moore also respond­ed to qr estions about the role of women at Notre Dame. 
Asked about the women's sports program at Notre Dame. Moore conceded that men would have to share the athletic budget, primarily made up of football and basketball revenues. "Men are going to have to sacrifice," she said, "but that kind of cooperation is vital if we are to be a community that looks out for each other's best interests." She added. "I want us to remember why we play sports, for the satisfaction, beauty, and discipline of participating in them." 
In response to a question about the role of women at Notre Dame, Moore first joked, "You're trying to get me fired.·' She then recalled her first year at the University, which coincided with the beginning of coeducation in the fall of 1972. "I couldn't believe that a place like this still existed," she said, ex­plaining that most institutions had already solved the problems that Notre Dame was only beginning to face. 
One of the problems with early coeducational efforts at Notre Dame, according to Moore, was that competition for grades, dormi­tories, and other benefits caused 
men  and  women  to  be  pitted  
against each other.  "The women  
were  constantly  on  display,"  she  

said, and brought laughter from the audience by describing how women were "rated" when they entered the dining halls. "I always got a low one," she complained. 
Moore emphasized that a mere increase in the number of women on the campus would 'not solve the problems, but that attitudinal changes must also occur. She also commented on the improvement in attitude within the past four years, saying. "I think of what my speech would have been like four years ago. All three of us would have had a good conversation." 
In her lecture, Moore traced the progress of women from colonial times, pointing out that 17th and 18th century women were economic assets in society. She placed the beginning of the feminist move­ment at the Seneca Falls Conference 
of 1848, where a resolution to give women the vote was "viewed as almost absurd," according to Moore. 
During the early 19th century, Moore attributes many problems of the women's movement to the "Cult of Domesticity," an ideal which, according to Moore, defined the woman's place in society as the "wife, mother, civilizer, and moral­izer." 
The Civil War and its outcome were seen by many women as a chance to advance the rights of all human beings, but, Moore said, "They were told by black men and white men that this was the 'Negro's hour'. and how bitter, bitter, l:)itter, they (the women) 




FDA may lower PCBs 
were. This frustration, 'Moore said, led to the rise of racist and nativist sentiments within the wo­men's movement. "I can't possi­bly defend them to you,'' she said. 
Women were given the vote after World War I, Moore said, because they had "proved themselves worthy" in the eyes of politicians. The vote did not solve all the problems of equal rights for women she pointed out, because women did not unite as a bloc. This disunity, Moore claimed, is keep­ing modern women from effecting a social change. The '20's, seen by many as a period of women's emancipation, was only ''women aspiring to be male-like because male was better," she said. 
Feminism as a movement enter­ed a period of dormancy until the late 'SO's and early '60's brought the emergence of what Mc·ore called "the problem with no name.' Secure suburban women, she said, "began to wonder 'Is this all there is? Why isn't there a me?'" These questions, according to Moore, led to a re-emergence of feminism. 
Fen,inism encounters opposition both from men and other women, Moore said, because it is "threat­ening. frightening, and challenging In order to make gains, women must be willing to sacrifice as well. "We can't expect to be handed these things just because we're women," she said. "A new order must be forged in which human qualities are emphasized." 
Moore specializes in medieval and women's history. Her lecture is part of a series sponsored by the Advisory Council of Women Stu-
Ford appoints Scranton to U.N. 
WASHINGTON AP -President Ford said Wednesday he is giving former Gov. William F. Scranton the job of "standing up for the United States against some of those unfair attacks in the United Na­tions.'' 
Ford appointed his "good, close, personal friend" to succeed Daniel Patrick Moynihan as U.N. ambas­sador and reaffirmed administra­tion promises that it will take a firm stand in the world organization. 
The actions of Moynihan. Ford said. "have been good from the point of view of the United States." 
Scranton, appearing before cam­eras and reporters with Ford and Secretary of State Henry A. Kis­singer in the White House Oval Office. said the job was "a great honor" but a very difficult one. 
Moynihan fan 

"I'm a Pat Moynihan fan," Scranton said. "I'm delighted with the way he handled the job. I'm proud to be his successor and I think we are on the upbend." 
Moynihan turned in his resigna­tion three weeks ago saying he would lose his tenure at Harvard if he did not return to teaching. In his seven months at the United Nations he had been the target of stinging criticism within the admin­istration and in the diplomatic community for his vehemence in rebutting attacks on the United States and on Israel. 
At the White House gathering, Ford told Scranton: "You have a big job to do carrying out the policy of standing up for the United States against some of these unfair at­tacks in the United Nations and in carrying out my decisions." 
Middle East policy 
even-handed policy" in the Middle lican, he once was considered a 
East. He argued that the U.S. presidential contender but by the 
position in that region was overly time he made up his mind in 1964 
slanted towards Israel. to challenge Sen. Barry Goldwater, 
Scranton is 58. a multimillionaire the Arizonan and his conservative 
and, like Ford. a graduate of Yale forces had captured a commanding 
Law School. A middle-roadRepub-lead for the GOP nomination. 
: ar~r Cllnlonial : : Jlancakt -nust : 
• FEATURING... : 
: LARGE, OVEN-BAKED • : APPLE PANCAKES : 
T

• -A REAL TREA -• :WE NEVER COMPROMISE WITH QUALITY . : • U.S. 31 (Dixieway North) /A) • : (ACROSS FROM HOliDAY INN) .... : 



rnictlae~s 
hair Stl.llinQ
etc. 

FOR APPT. CALL: 272-7222 18381 EDISON RD. AT SO. BEND AVE. 
SPECIAL SPRING SALE 

[Kodak\ 
INSTAMATIC 20 OUTFIT 
INCLUDES CAMERA, MAGICUBE, 
MAGICUBE EXTENDER, FILM, 
WRIST STRAP, INSTRUCTIONS. 

SPECIAL $24.75 
LIST $39.95 

AUL T CAMERA CO. 127 S. MICHIGAN SOUTH BEND 233-6145 
************.*** 
. 
. ' 
12:00-12:15 
1¢ BEERS 
f.lct: KAI.JSEt. 
:iJE CAMM.DA 


ri?k1f*** 
Thursday, February 26, 1976 

The distinction between insanity and genius is not that transparent, especially to one so !>anc; creativity flounders within him who sees with a conscious eye. 
More often than not, he who ventures to think beyond the norm is pcnanccd by alienation, paranoia, and an insecurity complex, coupled by a lacking of the social abilities recognized by all to be components of sanity and good being. 
We (a!> human culture) have always immortalized the "popular" man and looked over the true artist, whose bio­graphy is generally characterized by agony and frustration. with satisfaction granted only from within. 
We (now as first person) speak in reference to the storv of a Bavarian king, Ludwig II (1864-1886) who, according to popular belief at the time.' was quite mad and very incompetent and even somewhat strange. Bearing out some historical facts one may reach a different conclusion: he was a genius. But psychologists and psychiatrists may disagree. 
At this time we should enter three more 
legendary qualities which compose the 
mystique of Ludwig II: he was the most 
handsome king in the world at the time, he 
was only eighteen years of age, he was 
unmarried (cynics may score this as proof 
of his sanity). 
The tragic source of the king's demise 
was the conflict during his reign which be­
seigcd him until his fall. First, he thaught 
to talk his way to peace with Prussia, but 
yielded to his advisors who led Bavaria to 
an embarassing defeat by the Prussians in 
1866. His second and most vigorous strug­
gle was that for the position of authority 
th_at was rightly his. 
Depressed by a series of stunning 
frustrations, he built three castles, the 
most notable being Neuschwanstein, near 
Fossen (southern Germany). Like his 
father's castle which can be seen from the 
site, it was designed by a stage designer, 
in a style that can now be called "Disney" 
(The castle was the model for the Magic 
Kingdom structures in California and 
Florida.) 
Ludwig II instructed the builders how 
the building was to be constructed, 
decorated and trimmed, to the extent of telling the artists how to paint the frescoes on the walls and ceiling. He had installed plate glass windows for thermal and visual effects, the first large scale use of plate glass anywhere. He designed a steam lift system to carry meals from the kitchen on the bottom level to the dining room on the upper level. The dining room was lowered into the floor when not in use. 
One of the seventy-three centrally heat­ed rooms in the castle is a grotto, based on instructions by Ludwig. The transition from the pure formality of the castle's interior, which is rich hut with flavor and a human quality (unlike Versailles), to the cave is achieved by a single door, an imitation of contrast, which is the theme of the whole building. 
The mountain landscape becomes a focus point for the upper and lower entrance halls, whose walls gradually merge beyond in the view framed by the uninterrupted glass. The transparency allows the landscape to penetrate through the structure of the castle to the interior. 

But the king was bashful and a lonesome man, who enjoyed solitude in lieu of glamour and other refined regiments of the courtly life. He never really exposed him­self to his people, who were fed, by his ad­versaries, with reports of his insanity. Finally, they committed a doctor to sign a document proclaiming him unfit to fulfill his regal duties, declaring Ludwig legally insane, without benefit of an examination. Three • days later Ludwig II and the doctor were found drowned in a lake. 
And now the legend grows: the fairy tale 

king, his life of "madness," his "myster­
ious" death. The recent movie "IZSTO, 
mania" was filmed at Neuschwanstein 
Castle, several years ago. Ingmar Bergman 
made a biographical film entitled 
"Ludwig," and the castles receive eight 
thousand visitors a day and have paid for 
themselves many times over. The fairy 
tale is immortal hut has eulogical conclu­
sion in these words borrowed from Keith 
Reid: "I went to the river but I could 
not swim. 
Knew I'd drown if I went in. 
Lost my faith in a terrible race. 
Rest in peace hereafter." 

leo c. hansen 
Making It:Barry lyndon 
Barry Lyndon. which recently opened at the State Theater, is a visually stunning and highly entertaining film. Set in Europe in the 18th century, it is a picaresque tale about the rise and eventual fall from fame and fortune of a clever Irish peasant. Adapted for the screen by Stanley Kubrick from the novel by William Makepiece Thackeray, it is not an ordinary movie in the sense of plot and character develop­ment. By dispassionately and objectively recounting Barry's life, Kubrick literally places the viewer in the world of his protagonist and forces him to draw his own conclusions. Caught up in the amoral and complicated world of the European aristo­cracy, one watches in fascination as Barry struggles to acquire wealth and social status. As a result of Kubrick's objectivity. the viewer sees Barry's life without prejudice and is moved or angered as he experiences and shares in it. Barry's triumphs and defeats become, in a sense, the viewer's own. 
To describe Barry's downfall and loss of fortune as tragic. is to impose one's own feelings or opinions on a film that makes little statement about Barrv one wav or the other; for Barry Lyndon is mer~lv the portrait of a man corrupted by other-s and the society in which he moves. He is an ordinary man. one whose cleverness eventually avails him little because of his twisted sense of values which force him to pursue wealth and power at the expense of others. 
In the novel, Thackeray had Barry narrate his own story in a pompous and exaggerated style to illustrate his lack of knowledge and self-confidence. Kubrick, however. makes very little use of conven­tional dialogue, relying on the camera to reveal character and mood. His subtle use of light and landscape to complement emotion and dramatic intensity is master­fully done. 
The film is beautifully shot; so beautiful­ly that almost every frame could be taken and placed in an art gallery. One could call the final result then, a complete visual · work of art. The landscapes and interiors remind one of nothing so much as eighteenth-century landscape and portrait paintings. Much of Kubrick's effect!> were due to an innovative filmmaking technique that enabled him to shoot the scenes in their natural light. The night interiors benefited most from this innovation. 
Barry's story is neither memorable nor particularly well told. The strength of the film lies in the individual scenes that make up the story and in the ability of Kubrick to fashion the proper clements that compose it. The music also functions a~ an important connective device. It serves to complement some of the more dramatic moments in the tilm hy the repetition of motifs that underscored earlier ~cene~. In a·ddition, the usc of the Ban>yue with it~ precise textures and rhythm~ cmpha~ill' the sterility and spiritual 'apidity of Barry's environment. 
BarrJ Lyndon is neither a l'OStUilll' drama nor a period piece. The charat·ters arc not profound nor is the story particu­larl~· intriguing. What makes Barr)· Lyndon such a brilliant tilm is its ahilitv to capture the pulse and look of another.era while producing an insight into human nature and its relation to its environment. 
dominick salemi 
.--------------------





IOcc: 

Get the Jump on Spring 
The reasons for this album's January release must be financial, because IDee is not a winter band. Quite simolv. their music is Spring --cheerful, lively, fresh, exhilarating. 
Describing the songs as fast or slow, loud or soft, is irrelevant since the tempo, dynamics, instrumentation, meter, even the lead singer change every few seconds. The unifying factor is the lyrics, which are usually clever without being cute, and which usually have something to say. 
So with that information in mind, How Dare You? opens with the title track, a rather pointless instrumental which is merely adequate. It segues into "Lazy Ways." a relaxed song with strong melodies and excellent vocal harmonies, extolling the pleasures of leisurely love 
making. •­
"1 Wanna Rule The World" introduces the hundred-songs-in-one formula to present the ambitions of a very un-dictator­
like narrator. The vocals take the form of anthems, political speeches, and nursery rhymes, but one gets the feeling that this fellow's bark is worse than his bite. 
The following song, "I'm Mandy, Fly Me," tells the everyday story of a man in a plane wreck being saved by the airline's poster girl. Rather silly, actually, but the music is very professional, with a mellow atmosphere similar to "Lazy Ways" and an exquisite main melody. 
Side one's final offering is by far the best of the lot. "Iceberg" is lOcc doing what they do best. In less then four minutes, I counted a dozen different themes, all of them the short. instantly appealing little gems that Paul McCartney turns out by the truckload. It's a dull story of the singer pursuing his girlfriend, but the music is so overwhelming, it doesn't really matter. 
Further support of my explanation of the mid-winter release is provided by "Art for Art's Sake," which leads off side two. It suggests a mercenary motive behind everything and is the closest that the band comes to a heavy metal sound. Downright funky in spots, just to show that they can do it. 
They abandon the smorgasbord approach for the next two tracks, which arc, by theme, related. "Rock n Roll Lullaby" is a straight twelve bar blues tunc and probably the second best song on the album. It tells of the innocence of childhood, a topic that is further developed in "Head Room". The subject of awakening sexual urge is supported by a suggestive beat, and if you're so inclined, you can read a multitude of dirty puns into the lyrics, the title being not the least of these. Musically, it's similar to "Lullaby", only a little more driving. 
These last two selections arc minus the arsenal of exotic instrunl<'nts that arc prominent on the rest of the album. All of IDee's members are_ proficient on numer­ous instruments, and they don't hesitate to make use of them. 
The record has an obvious telephonic theme which is evident on the cover. centerfold, jacket, and even label. ("How Dare You" is the reaction to obscene calls and telephonic notification of marital infidelity, as shown on the sleeve.) Curiously. none of the songs follow this idea except the last one. "Don't Hang Up" has many of the same qualities as "Iceberg," but its six minute length destroys the rapid tire bombardment technique that was so effective in the latter. It's still a good song, each of its sections works well, and the opening melody is one of their most attractive. Basically, it's a man calling his ex-wife and rcwunting the collapse of their marriage. 
The closing sound effect is predictable 

yet unexpected; and on reflection, the only possible ending to a fine record which is a bit premature. I'm playing it out my window in hopes of attracting that first robin. 
ted twardzik 
. ."' . "" , . ~ .. ' 

Thursday, February 26, 1976
the observer 

Campbell outlines history of racism in America 
by Karl J. Blette Staff Reporter 

Finley Campbell, professor and former director of Afro-American Studies at the University of Wis­consin, outlined the history of racism in America and commented on its place in society last night before a group of approximately 40 people in Washington Hall. 
Although small. the audience responded with alternating laugh­
.,~,
,,;Jt. -~ ~~-1'--.... -~ 
.,.,,,~
. ... ·" 
:-:t.lJil ~\'If. ~-(mJ ' ,\~,
.-...~ -·-....•,..-
Jto. \ok Ill" ~-. IIIII ' 
....
~ ~ a.·t• ··~-... 
::~· :..: :..: -~ 
• • • ... • (liJ :· 
• 
l IJR•• ··i·.,.'-':
•III•IUfil'"" ... 1Ji •

_, _ _,..~ 
': ·::r:=,ff11 1 1 
1.&i ~-'""'' -~ ; ~ 
-~ ., ,.,-...ffl J. • • 

Finley Campbell, professor at the University of Wisconsin lectured on racism last night. [Photo by Tony Chifari] 
2nd Operation Brainstorm gets underway this week 
by Jim Commyn Staff Reporter 

Bridget O'Donnell, Ombudsman Director, has announced the open­ing of the second annual Operation Brainstorm Contest. The contest began Mon., Feb. 23, and runs through Fri., March S. Winners will be announced in the March 10 issue of the Observer. 
·'The purpose of the contest is to get an input of new ideas from the students to improve Student Gov­ernment and the Ombudsman Ser­vices," Jill Pascuzzo, chairman of this program, stated. "If people 
have good ideas, this is where to channel them," she added. 
Pascuzzo explained ideas for the contest should fall in one of three categories: social , service or poli­cv. 
· "The social category," Pascuzzo said, "usuall~ has a major on entertainment. ' She cited the North Quad Party. An Tostal ideas, and suggestions for LaFortune as examples of this area. 
''The service category should 
explained. 

Quickie, Summer Storage, and' 
Refrigerator Rental as suggestions i 
that would fall in this category.  :  
Pascuzzo stated the third policy area pertain primarily to the man­ ' i  
agement of University procedures. "Ticket policy, Freshman Orienta­ ' i  

tion ideas and suggestions concern-' ing the activities calendar would be t 
included in this area," she said. 

O'Donnell and Pascuzzo also discussed the prizes which will ber awarded in each of the three areas. 
''Actually ten prizes will be giv­en," Pascuzzosaid. 
"This year's grand prize is $76 , a substantial increase over last year's award," she noted. 
"The first prize awarded in each area will be two tickets to next year's Homecoming game against
Pittsburgh," O'Donnell said. The ter and gravity to Campbell's fiery, satirical and descriptive speech. 
The lecture, entitled, "200 Years of Secret Multi-Racial Battle against Racism,'' was the final part of the series "The American Fu­ture: A Radical Perspective," sponsored by the Departments of American Studies, Anthropology and Sociology. 
"The River is Rising," as Prof. Campbell retitled his talk, centered around his definition of racism as a "metaphysical system" propogat­
three criteria; originality, practical­ity, and implementation. 
Judging will be done by three members of the thirteen-member Ombudsman Advisory Board and two members of the Ombudsman Service to be selected at large. Pascuzzo said the judges had not be selected yet, but were being contacted. 
Former Ombudsman Matt Cock­rell pointed out nearly 70 suggest­ions were submitted in last year's contest. "Cathy Faulkenberg Rus­sell's winning suggestion for a campus hotline has been imple­mented this ye_ar," Cockrell noted. 
Other suggestions concerning new registration practices and re­modeling ideas for La Fortune were also among last year's entries. "These ideas were not abandoned, even though they didn't win," Cockrell emphasized. "Most sug­gestions are still being studied and worked on." 
Entry forms for this year's contest can be obtained in the dining halls, Darby's Place or at 
focused on furnishing services for the Ombudsman office in LaFor­the University community," O'Do-tune. nneII She used the i--­
i 
' 
& 
•' 

ed by the elite , f American society, 
He used the analogy of the Olympic gods in Homer's Diad watching over and toying with the combatants in the Battle of Troy as an enjoyable diversion and means of keeping themselves in power. 
He compared this to the promo­tion of racial conflict by the ruling class in the United States as a means of keeping its power intact. 
"Prejudice," Campbell said, "is ignorance deliberately maintained by separating human behavior." He called it an ignorance of black people caused by the cultural separation of whites and blacks in the United States. 
American history outlined 
Outlining American history in a different light than usual, Camp­bell told of movements for and against racism which are not recorded in history books but whose existence nevertheless can be backed up by existing docu­ments. 
He divided this history into three periods, the first beginning in the 1600's and lasting until roughly 1800. 
It was during this period that blacks were brought from Africa to America as slaves, and also that white indentured servitude became widespread in the New World, Campbell related . 
This slavery of both white and black people caused artistic, lin­guistic and religious mixing be­tween the cultures, thus establish­ing the Southern black culture as a unique and distinctly American phenomenon, he said. 
The "Rights of Man" movement in the late 1700's went against racism and succeeded in abolishing slavery in the northern states, but soon died out as theU.S. Constitu­tion defineo the black as "three­fifths of a human being," accord­ing to Campbell. 
The Abolitionist move111ent, which eventually became one of the causes of the Civil War, was another strong anti-racist move­ment, but Campbell pointed out soon after the war a racist attitude again became predominant in the 
u.s. 
Campbell discribed Abraham Lincoln as taking an apathetic position on slavery and the condi­tion ()f the black man, his main concern being to save the Union through whatever means neces­sary. 
It was Lincoln's generals, Camp­bell said, who ultimately convinced htm to· free the slaves in order to gain the support of the blacks. It was this which Campbell felt gave the Union the power to win the war. 
The third period which Campbell discussed was highlighted by the 1896 Supreme Court decision es­tablishing segregation and the 1920's movie "Birth of a Nation," which he called a racist tool to keep bla{;ks in a subordinate position in 
~ociety. 
Indoctrination 

. Throughout his talk, Campbell ctted examples of indoctrination of 
THAT CAN REVIVE DYING '
t* Not recommended HAIR ROOTS BY INCREASED t 
BLOOD CIRCULATION. 
• for high blood pressure RESULTS DETERMINED BY f BULLA SHED 
' h . INDIVIDUAL RESPONSE. i 
A or eart patients. ' a warm spot on a cold day! ' A THE See lYNN b t I i' JOIN US -meet new people
: ~ ,Mt 'i ap~ on Yt 
FALLING OR'' THINNING i' 
t
HAIR? 
A 

• ' Before it's too late -:& 
$3oQQ ' 
HAVE A SERIES OF ELEC-t per treatment TRICAL SCALP TREATMENTS A 
people toward racist attitudes. He pointed out how evil, dirt and violence are associated with 
•"blackness," causing an automatic hatred of blacks in many people. 
Campbell is the former director of Afro-American Studies at the University of Wisconsin, and is presently co-chairperson of the International Committee Against Racism (!NCAR). He discribed the organization as a group promoting "multi-racial unity." 
The position of INCAR is to defend all people from all forms of racism. Campbell stressed white children is South Boston are 
as much victims of racism as are blacks in other parts of the nation. 
The former Congressional and gubenatorial candidate for the Peace and Freedom Party called himself a "non-candidate" in the 1976 presidential election. He ex­plained this by commenting that none of the major presidential candidates can achieve any signifi­cant changes in the status quo and urged citizens to express their disgust by not voting. 
"If 51 percent of the adult population does not vote," Camp­bell said, " then I wiJI have won the election.'' 
* SPECIALS* $1.49 
Mon: Chopped Steak Dinner 
OPEN

Tues: Ribeye Steak Dinner 11 to 9 P.M 
Wed: Ham Steak 

Dinner EVERYDAY Thur: Chopped or 
1516 N.
Ribeye Steak Fri: Fish Dinner IRONWOOD Includes Angus Potato, 
289-0755
Salad and Toast 
IN AFILMED

REDUCED 
CONCERT

PRICE! 
"YESSONGS" 

CHRIS SQUIRE Bass RICK WAKEMAN Keyboards STEVE HOWE Guitar o JOHN ANDERSON Vocals o ALAN WHITE Drums 
~~~o~~~~~:t!~.$3lnn ~~~;n:~~~~ : ~nt»vtS 
,~§( _~--~ especially if you have 
graphed glossy of an NO favorite of ' 54533 TERRACE LANE ......._ . ~ 
never come

the_ winner's-choice is the third i T w d s 8 30 30
' ues., e ., at. : -5: , prtze. Thurs. & Fri. 8:30 -8:30 This Friday and every Friday
O'Donnell and Pascuzzo explain-f ed th~ j4~ging wQu)d be based oJt. A... PHONE 277 ~ .1691. Mass.... n·mner-5:15 pro 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Thursday, February 26, 1976 

Hearst admits to having used drugs 

SAN 1FRANCIS\'0 ·AP psychiatrist who portrayed Patricia Hearst as "a naive schoolgirl" before her kidnaping, conceded under cross­examination Wednesday that she had smoked marijuana, used mes­caline and may have experimented 
with LSD. 
But Dr. L. J. West insisted that information had nothing to do with his evaluation of the 22 year-old heiress. He said he meant she was politically naive. 
The prosecution's questions a­bout drug use at Miss Hearst's bank robbery trial were allowed despite heated objections from Miss Hearst's attorney, F. Lee Bailey, who said it was an irrel­evant subject. 
West, testifying for the defense, then gave a narrative of Miss Hearst's drug use, portraying her former fiance Steven Weed as instigator of the experiments. 
Weed's experiments "My understanding is that Mr. Weed was conducting experiments with marijuana and growing it hydroponically in water on his back porch," the doctor said with a smile, "and that he had introduced the defendent to it and she had smoked it occasionally. Asked about LSD, he said, "She had been given by Mr. Weed on several occasions drugs which she was told were . . . LSD and mescaline. I inquired what her 
Rectors express satisfaction with resident assistants 
(continued from page 1) 
"I look for someone who can get 
along with their peers," she emph­
asized. "Also I look for someone 
who can listen well, who knows her 
limitations when she can't handle a 
situation, and for someone who is 
basically unselfish." 
"But most important. I look for 
someone who will challenge others 
to grow deeper," she pointed out. 
({iehle said he likes a resident 
assistant who will "coordinate 
things in the section." 
"I look for someone who is going 
to make a contribution to the hall." ({iehle noted. "Someone who will look up to the student academically he should be a person a freshman could benefit frome academically. He should be concerned with the health and personality of the 
South Bend woman financial benefits which it provides 
student." 
The rectors interviewed expres­sed satisfaction with the help given them by resident assistants. 
"Farley was the largest women's dorm three years ago,'' Lenz remarked. "But I never could have started things without the resident assistants. I am very fortunate to have had the staff I did." 
"I think it is necessary to have resident assistants,'' M-iceli em­phasized. "I would be at a loss without them. In general, I am satisfied with the ones I have had." 
Hesburgh answers students' questions 
(continued from page 1) 
during the ''Southern California football weekend. Hesburgh praised the sports program not only because of the 
died Monday night 
A young South Bend woman who has been participating in an infor­mal discussion program with Notre Dame students died suddenly Mon­day night. 
Thirty-two-year-old Diane Ma­gers and her husband Tom were involved with residents of Farley, Breen-Phillips and Grace in a program called "Making It With­out the Games." As part of the program designed to provide an opportunity for young people to meet outside classroom and dating situations, the Magers couple hosted a group of students in their home last week. 
Director of Student Development Mary Clare McCabe extended to the Magers family the sympathy of the University community. "We feel saddened at the death of Diane," McCabe said, "but we are grateful for having had the oppor­tunity to share a part of her life." 
Mrs. Magers was the mother of four children, ages two months to five years. Funeral arrangements have not yet been announced. 
for the Unviersity. but also because of the spirit which it brings out. 
"I wish we had a wide variety of sports," he said. "I'd like to see the guys around here learn how to dance or play bridge, too." 
Hesburgh was also asked if he favored any presidential candidate, but would not endorse anyone " as a matter of principle." 
JULIO'S 
NOW HAS 
PAN 


PIZZA!!! 

.PHONE 232-791 
VISIT 

THE HOUSE OF SOMETHING BETTER 
"HELP INCREASE YOUR STAMINA AND ENDURANCE WITH HIGH 
PROTEIN AND VITAMIN SUPPLEMENTS FROM JOE WEIDER, BOB HOFFMAN, AND VIOBIN" 1612 S. MICHIGAN 
SOUTH BEND. IND PH.ONE 287-5310 
.
-

effects had veen and couldn't determine whether she ever had LSD. But the experiences she recounted on mescaline made me think she actually had been given mescaline." 
Asst. U.S. Atty. David Bancroft then asked whether Weed hadn't given the doctor a different recol­lection -"Didn't he insist the defendant was constantly after him for LSD?" 
After hedging on several further questions, West answered, "Yes, she wanted to try it. He had had experiences with it and whe wanted it and he finally gave her some." 
PolitlcaJ naivete 

Then, in an angry speech from the witness stand, West cited the "political naivete" which he claim­ed made Miss Hearst's conversion into the revolutionary "Tania" difficult for the terrorist Symbion­esc Liberation Army. 
· When "Tania" was created, 
WANTED 

Student or G.A. tix for Western Mich. Will pay bucks. Call 289­?793. 
Just transferred from there. Need many Western Mich. B-ball tix, student or GA. Call Don 1008. 
Desperate for 2 G. A. or sh dent Marquette fix. Will pay$$$. !"lease call 7801 anytime. 
Want to trade my 2 GA Marquette tix for 2 NCAA regional fix. Call 289 5231. 
Wanted: Your laundry to do. Com­plete finishing and pressing. Fast service. Monticello Laundromat, 441 
E. Howard St., Ph. 289-0049. 
Desperately need 4 GA Marquette tickets. Call Chris 272·1400. 
Need 2 Marquette tix. Student or GA. Name price. Jim 3252. 
Need 5 Marquette tickets. Call Eileen or MariQn 6798. 
Desperately need 1 G. A. Marquette ticket. Call Stacy 6893. 
Wanted: 2 Marquette fix. Pis. call Terri 287-6638. 
Need GA and student tickets for Marquette badly. Please call Pat 1654. 
Wanted · need desperately as many Marquette tix as possible. Call Peggy 6896. 
Desperately need GA Marquette tickets. Call Tom at 7781. 
'Need Marquette tickets. Call Joe at 287-5113. 
Need many Western Mich. tix! Call 233-9841 after 10 p.m. 
Need Western Mich. tix. Call Joan 1327. 
Must have 3 Marquette tix. Call John 1462. 
4 girls need rides to Houston, San Antonio, or anywhere South of there tor spring break. Will share driving, gas. Call Debbie at /J798. _
________..~:.·_...,.. ___ 
Ride needed to Kalamazoo, 2-27-76. Call Mary, 5384. 
Need Marquette tickets. Call Ron 8917. 
Need Marquette tickets. Call 4773, Camille. '­
Need ride ..~Illinois State Univ, Feb. 
27. Call Cartlille 4773. 
Help a young girl find happiness 
under  the  Golden  Dome.  2  G.A.  
Marquette  tickets  please!  Christie  
6800.  

Need 2 GA Marquette tix. Call Tim 8685. 
Need 3 Marquette tix. Call Russ 287-3897. 
Desperately need 2 GA Marquette tickets. Call Ward, 1697. 
As many Western Michigan tickets as you are willing to sell. Call Phil 289-9164. 
Wanted: Ride to East Lansing (MSU) for this weekend. Call Rose 4-4698. 
.. 
West said, "she was a creature of the surface -all form and no substance," and the terrorists had to give her political ideas. 
West, director of the UCLA Neuropsychiatric Institute, gave defense testimony earlier which paralleled Miss Hearst's own wit­ness stand account of fear and torture with the SLA. The doctor became visivily angered by Ban­croft's effort to shake his credibil­ity. 
The young assistant prosecut~r. who is handling the psychiatric testimony protion of the trial, had cross-examined West all dav Tues­day and part of Monday. ­
Repeatedly, he tried to show that Miss Hearst, portrayed by the doctor as a helpless victim, was actually a fearless, independent woman whose headstrong views made her ripe for conversion to the SLA doctrines. The witness denied this. 
THE CRUCIBLE 



~ NJJ 
Arthur Miller's po~rful dra­rm examning events sur­
rounding the Salem witdl hunts. 
SMC 
111[ /1 1 f~ [ Feb. 27, 28, Mar. 4, 5, 6 All Seats $2.00 
at 8:00 P.M.

(Std-FCIC. $1.50) Alone: 284-4176 OlAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM (St. Mary's) 
Classified Ads 
Desperatly need ride to California for spring break. Can leave anytime. Please call Charlie 8822. 
Need ride lo Pillsburgh Fri. FebI 27. Call Dan 8729. 
Need 2 GA Marquette tix. Mary 1285. 
Desperately need ride to Hollywood, Fla. area over spring break. Please call 3279. 
Ride needed to D. C.· Baltimore area for spring vacation. will drive, pay and bring chocolate chip cookies. Call 7802. 
Two girls need ride to Chicago area Friday. Call Mary 4537 or 4438. 
Need ride to Purdue this weekend! Call 4954. 
Desperate! Need ride to Ft. Lauder­dale tor spring break. Call 4430. 
DESPERATELY NEEDED: SOME DECENT CONCERTS THIS SEMESTER! 
FOR SALE 
For Sale: 1968 Dodge Charger 318, automatic power steering. Great cond. Snow tires & Mag wheels included. $600. Call 272-1710 or 272-4777 after 5:30 p.m. 
Disneyland murals from Mardi Gras for sale. Call 1348. 
For sale: Dual 1218 complete with AT BE.ea Cartridge. Steve 1024.$ 
Fired . must sell stereo components. 259-8447 6-9 p.m. 
House tor sale. Edison Park, 3 bedroom, full basement, fenced yard. Call 233-8512. 
For Sale: Nikon 53. 35mm rangetin­
der  50mm  f1 .4  Nikkor  lens.  Paul  
8131.  
FOR RENT  

Next school year . 9 (nine) month lease. Two furnished houses 4 bedroom and 5 bedroom. Near N.D. Call 234-2626. 
Furnished houses, two to seven bedroom. Available for September or June. Call 234-9364. 
Summer houses and rooms tor rent. Real close to campus. Furnished. Ridiculously Reasonably. 233-2613 
or 232-7263 

4,5,6 bedroom houses. Completely furnished, extremely nice. Real close to campus. September 1976 9-month lease. 233-2613 or 232­7263. 
2 rooms tor rent $40. Call 233-1329. 
NOTICES 
Meeting . Mass., N. Mex., W.Va. & Del. delegations. Th. 6:30 Keenan basement. 
Traveling during spring break? Cut costs of getting there! Vans & cars to many points in U.S.A. Call Auto Driveaway 232-1414. 
Rich Man Poor Man now at Pan­dora's Book 937 So. Bend Ave. 10:00-7:00 daily. 
IBM Selectric II typing. Manusc ripts, dissertaions. Experienced. 289-5193. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost in ACC locker room 1 gold braided wedding band. Reward offered no questions asked. 277 1568 or 283-7516. 
PERSONALS 
S.J.P. Fox, Bunny, feel free to laugh since 
this personal Is a joke...really! Anita Bryant and the Night Owl 
''Zeus,'' 
Four days ''yes!''  to  go... Practice  your  
Mary Shelley  

"There are lots of ways to get to Pittsburgh." Gay Community of Notre Dame. Hotline 8870 Fri. and Sat. 8-10 p.m. Or write P.O. Box 
206. 
Rugby Shirts -why pay more? Get your green & gold, blue & gold or red & blue rugby shirt for 513.00. Call Dave 277-0948. 
CASE: The orange Moose pulled through. Jamieson our campus or yours? 
J.G. etc. 
Angolan Warmonger . 
Tell him this: 
I am your spaniel, and, Bobo, the more you beat me, the more 1 will fawn on you. Use me as your spaniel, spurn me, strike me, neg­lect me, lose me; only give me leave, unworthy as 1 am to follow you. What worser place can 1beg in your love, and yet a place of high respect with me, than to be used as your 
dog? Secret Worshipper 
Beware: 
Yente lives. 
Scarecrow: You may scare birds but you don't scare me. A boy 
Having a party? Call Dave for low discounts in kegs and cases. 277. 0948. Free delivery. 
ILLINOISIANS: CAN YOU SPARE A WEEK-END TO HELP IN GOV. ERNOR WALKER'S CAMPAIGN­ING FOR REELECTION? TRANS­PORTATION, LODGING, AND MEALS PROVIDED. FOR DE­TAILS, CALL THIS WEEK, CATHY 
284-4103. 
About that problem: have you thought that maybe alcohol IS the problem? Call Peggy Barnum 8809, alcohol counselor, University lnfir­
mary. 
HOOSIERLAND ROCK FEST­BLACK SABBATH, BLACK OAK ARKANSAS, GRAND FUNK, SWEET, QUEEN, SLADE, MOTT, HYDRA, NAZARETH, NEW YORK DOLLS, AND SPECIAL GUEST JOHN DAVIDSON. 

c o e •. " " " 
the observer Thursday, February 26, 1976 
Flyers crash in Dayton; end ND hex 
by Ernie Torriero 

DAYTON -In a game reminis­cent of a scene from "Shoot-Out at the O.K. Corral." Notre Dame did something it hasn't done since I'll I. The Irish won at Dayton. 
The 85-79 victory was also the first time Irish mentor Digger Phelps has won within the hostile confines of the Dayton Arena. Notre Dame. now 21-4-. heads home to close out the season versus second-ranked Marquette and highly-rated Western Michigan. 
"Davton came out with a Jot of mspir;;tion. admitted Phelps. "The~· were well-prepared and really juiced up. I am just happy to win. You know. it's the first time J' ve ever won here.'' 
The game featured a classic match-up of the stronger Irish versus the quicker sharp-shooters from the Miami Valley. Powerful All-American Adrian Dantley paced the Irish cause with 30 points on 12 field goals and six free throws. 
Leading the Flyer challenge was the pestery junior from Detroit. Michigan, Johnny Davis. It was Davis with his thunder-like speed which kept the' Flyers in the game most of the way. 
Davis did it all. scoring on baseline drives and popping with consistency from all points on the court. He notched 38 points for the night. 
"He's one of the best guards in the country." Dantley said of Davis. "He was on the Pan­American team last year and he will probably be on the Olympic team this year. He really is quick." 
Whereas Davis was lauded for his quickness, Dantley amazed the 
13.149 Flyer partisans with his powerful attack. At times Dantley was the man responsible for bring­ing the ball up the floor and it was Dantley's dangling drives up the middle of the Flyer defense which kept the Irish in the game early. 
With 2:44 left in the game and the Irish clinging to a mere 
three-point  advantage,  79-76,  
Notre  Dame  went  into  the  four­ 
corner  stall.  It  was  here  that  

Dant!ey put the game eventually out ofreach, as the 6-5 junior found an opening in the Dayton middle and drove for the score. 
''They were supposed to give it to me in the four-corners,'' Dantley explained. "But I made a mistake. I thought I could beat Paxson (Jim) up the middle and I did. But then I got the charge called on me." 
The lead see-sawed back and forth throughout the second half. Yet the highlight was definitely the Davis-Dantley duel. 
With 5: 16 to go in the game, Davis hit on a long jumper to tie the score at 72-all. Back came the Irish and Dantley with a tip-in to give Notre Dame the lead back. Then Davis rushed the court to tie it once again with a sweeping lay-in. The action was characteristic of the play all night. 
Yet all the scoring was not restricted to Davis and Dantley. Center Dave Batton threw in 18 points for the Irish and Dayton's Ervin Giddings and Leighton Moul­ton both netted 14 for the Flyers. Duck Williams played well throughout, scoring 17 points. 
"The whole team played well," 
*Observer 



Sports 
Seniors Yates, Hurt lead Irish distance runners 
most of one year of track competi­by Mike Towle tion lying out there for them to grab 
Notre Dame distance runners ahold of. So, what does each Joe Yates and Jim Hurt have runner hope to come away with several things in common. Both of before trheir collegiate track car­them have run a 4:09 mile, each of eers are forever interupted by them has competed for both track graduation? and cross country team while at In a matter of fact manner Yates Notre Dame and finally, both explains, "I plan to concentrate on Yates and Hurt are seniors in their running the mile to the best of my last year of collegiate competition. ability and to better my fastest time One might now understand why a of 4:09 by several seconds before rivalrv has existed between the two the track season is completed." throughout their four years here. Philad~lphia is the destination Don't be misled though, this rivalry for Hurt if everything goes his way. has been a friendly one. He explains, "Hopefully, I will 
"There has definitely been a qualify for the NCAA outdoor rivalry between us, but a friendly championships in the three mile one at that," Yates says as a grin event. I'd really like to go to comes over his face. "We are the Philadelphia in our Bicentennial onlv two senior distance runners celebration." on ·the team. so naturally we've One can understand why if it is developed a rivalry the last four realized that Hurt is a history major vears. at Notre Dame. After graduating · Hurt shares that sentiment and with his degree in the spring, he goes so far as to say that their looks forward to a teaching and competition has been an added coaching career, eventually to re­inspiration to their respective per­turn to college and work for a 
formances. masters degree in physical educa­
"It really helped me a lot during tion. my junior year on the cross country Yates, who will be getting a team. Joe's a pretty competitive degree in finance this spring, plans runner and he inspires strong on staying in the world of business, performances from those who run hopefully as a sales manager. against him," Hurt says. Even though they will be going 
In reference to their junior year their separate ways after gradua­on the cross country team, both tion, you can bet that the essence of runners must have benefitted from the rivalry which has developed their competitive spirit. The pair between Joe Yates and Jim Hurt qualified for the NCAA champion­over the past four years will stay ships, a feat that requires finishing with them for a long time. It has a head of hundreds of the best stayed with them this long and runners in the midwest. have made them good friends in 
If Yates and Hurt haven't fulfill­the process. Pretty good distance ed all of their goals, they still have runners too. 

... 
Dantley admitted. "But we knew Dayton would be psyched for us. So we were psyched for them." 
Early in the game it appeared the Flyer hex over the visitng Irish would surface again. Dayton opened up a commanding 16-8lead as Davis drove up the middle at the 
16:10 mark. Giddings and Moulton contributed six and eight points respectively in that span. 
When Williams entered the con­test for the first time with 13 minutes left in the half, the Irish began a comeback surge which was to vault them into the lead until the final minutes of the half. Williams' nine points along with Dantley's halftime pacing 18. helped the Irish to a 34-27 advantage at the 7:09 mark. 
Davton chizzled away at the Notre Dame lead, as Giddings, who was to net 13 in the first frame, hit on a tip-in and a short jumper. 
But it was the amazing Davis who was to turn on the crowd and help the Flyers to a 44-44 standoff at the half. Davis' lightning quick, seemingly undeniable, driving lay­ups gave Dayton a 41-40 lead with 
I:48 left in the half. Two Dayton free throws by Terry Ross knotted the score at 44. 
IRISH ITEMS: Dantley threw a scare into the Irish fans, when he fell to the ground unexpectedly with 8:02 left in the game. Dantley was slow getting up and it appeared an elbow by a Dayton player caught him in the side. He went out for a while and came back to play out the game. 
The Irish got a gift basket in the middle of the first half when a whistle was blown in the stands. The Dayton players thought it was an official's signal and Williams made a lay-up unmolested. 
A late rebounding surge gave Dave Batton scored 14 of his 18 points in the second half to help the 


Irish beat upset-minded Dayton last night. Notre Dame the slight edge on the 12 of 19 from the field, 6-for-6 from boards, 49-47. Notre Dame has still the line, 13 rebounds, 3 assists and not been beaten in rebounding this only one turnover. year. The teams shot pretty evenly, Davis put up 30 shots, hitting 12. Dayton with a 45 per cent field goal He was 14 of 18 from the line. average and the Irish with a 40 per Batton also had a big night from cent mark. The squads both shot the field hitting 9 of 12. The big over 70 per cent from the charity center spent most of the night away line. from the basket splitting the 
Dantley had one of his best Flyers' 2-1-2 zone by hitting long statistical nights of the season with jumpers from the top of the key. 
SMC cagers rally to edge ND 
by Eileen O'Grady 
In a very close and controversial 
game last night, St. Mary's won 
their second match in a row over 
Notre Dame, 28-27. 
The teams looked evenly 
matched. St. Mary's excelled in 
rebounds and foul shooting, while 
Notre Dame hustled more for fast 
break-aways and had a higher 
percentage of successful shots 
from the floor. Both teams played 
an excellent defense. 
But St. Mary's won out in the 
end, giving them their third win 
in four games between the two 
teams in the last two years. This 
game also completes St. Mary's 
regular season with a 10-3 record. 
In the first half, SMC definitely 
out rebounded Notre Dame, but the 
Irish connected for more points, 
giving them the halftime lead 
16-13. 
Mary Clemency led the Irish 
scoring at the half, with six points 
on three single-handed drives 
down court. 
For St. Mary's, Martha Kelly led 
their offensive attack during the 
half, scoring three outside shots 
and one point from the gift line. 

Both teams played sloppy ball. St. Mary's continually missed good shots while Notre Dame missed all of their free throw shots during the half. 
In the second half, both teams improved. St. Mary's shooting began clicking right off. In the first minute, center Kathleen Cullen scored on a rebound, followed by a short jump shot by guard Meg Holland, giving St. Mary's the early 17-16\ead. 
St. Mary's kept the lead for the rest of the half but Notre Dame continually challenged them. 
With four minutes left in the half, Clemency scored on a fast break-away down court followed by a one-point foul shot, tying the score at 25-25. But SMC. came back on a rebound basket by Martha Kelly, and one point scored by Kathy "Mad-dog" Maddox at the free throw line, making the score 28-25. 
With 10 seconds to go, Notre Dame center Bonita Bradshaw scored on a rebound, but St. Mary's managed to keep the lead and win the game 28-27. 
SMC forward Martha Kelly was the high point scorer for the game with 13 points, while Clemency led the Irish with 9. 
St. Mary's head coach, Monica 

Doyle commented on some of the calls by the referees. "It was poor officiating, to the point that it got out of hand,'' she said. ''There were too many elbows as far as Notre Dame was concerned, and a lot of pushing and shoving." 
Doyle claimed St. Mary's won the game on stamina. "The girls stuck with it all the way. They were down and they kept their cool," she commented. "That's how they've 
pulled  out  a  lot  of  games  this  
year."  
Notre  Dame coach  Sally Duffy  

called it a "really good hard game" and claimed "it could have gone either way." 
Notre Dame plays their last home game of the season against Marquette on Saturday morning at 10 in the main arena. St. Mary's heads for the Indiana tournament in Manchester this weekend. 
IH swim meet results 
Event 
200 Medley Relay 200 Free­style SO Freestyle 100 IM Diving SO Butterfly 100 Free­style SO Back­stroke SO Breast­stroke 200 Free­style Relay 
Men Winner 
Dillon (Schmidt, Graff, Black­well, Graff) Bence (Fisher) 
Debruyne (Off-campus) 
Blackwell (Dillon) 
Mlynarski (Grace) 
Debruyne (Off-Campus) 
Jenkins (Grace) 
Schmidt (Dillon) 
Schwartz (Stanford) 
Stanford (Ballas, Hall, Schwartz, Tarpley) 
Team Standings 
Alumni 6 Morrissey 6 Time 
Stanford  39  Keenan  4  
Dillon  27  
Grace  24  Women  
Pangborn  16  
Off-Campus  12  Farley  56  
Fisher  11.5  Lyons  45  
Flanner  10.5  Lewis  12  

157.5 208.3 
23.7 105.6 207.8 25.6 54.9 
29.9 
33.8 
143.4 



