
----~-------------­
~' 


WASHINGTON CAP) -Pres­amount individuals would pay ported petroleum, and propos­ident Ford reported Monday to hospitals and doctors. mg moves away from narrow night that "the state of our Un­As expected, Ford also called federal social welfare efforts ion is better -in many ways a for a $4.2-billion increase in So­toward block grants to states, lot better," but called for ef · cial Security taxes, to take ef­Ford first dealt with what he forts to devise "a more perfect fect in 1977. termed a "major step" to get 
union where the government Americans to "invest in the fu­
Tight budget requested
serves and the people rule." ture." 
In an election year State of In discussing what he sees as As an example, he said he the Union address that coin­the need for a belt-tightening wants tax law changes "at the cided with the beginning of the federal budget, Ford said: earliest possible date" that presidential campaign season, "By holding down the growth would give businessmen in· Ford recalled that a year ago of federal spending, we can af­centives to expand their plants he had said the state of the Un· ford additional tax cuts and re­and buy new equipment, chiefly ion was not good. In reporting turn to the people who pay in areas where the unemploy­that 1976 finds it much im· taxes more decision-making ment rate now exceeds 7 per proved, he added that it is power over their own lives." cent. "still not good enough." The tax cut he has in mind Saying "we can have a 
Placing heavy emphasis on for individuals, he said, would healthy recovery in 1976" in the economic issues in his text for reduce by $227 the taxes paid sagging housing industry, Ford a joint session of Congress and for a family of four making said his budget would allow for a nationwide broadcast au­$15,000 a year. "additional housing assistance dience, Ford said his new fed­"Hard-working Americans for 500,000 families." eral budget proposal would hold caught in the middle can really Most of these families would spending to $394.2 billion and use that kind of extra cash," be aided by rent subsidies. lower taxes by another $10 bil­Ford said. Ford called for regulatory re­lion starting July 1. He an­The President pictured his form of the airlines, trucking, nounced he will propose tax in­economic program as one that railroads and financial in· centives to encourage low-and would produce more jobs, espe­stitutions. middle-income persons to in­cially for the young, and 
Foreign policy 
vest in common stocks. whittle away at currently high The President also declared unemployment rates. 
Although the President dealt
that he wants Congress to pro­He also set as a goal a bal­
only briefly with foreign af·
vide Medicare beneficiaries for anced federal budget by 1979. 
anew legis­fairs, he declared, "The statethe first time with protection While calling for 
of our foreign policy is sound
against catastrophic illnesses lation to spur programs aimed 
and strong," and added: "We
by limiting to $750 annually the at lessening dependence on im­
are at peace -and I will do all in my power to keep it that 
way."
Supporters remove 
He said a new agreement
with the Soviets to curb the nu· 
clear arms race "may be
drinking age bill 
achieved," stated that the na· lion's military manpower "is
by Phil Cackley and 
without equal," and gave his
Maureen Flvnn view that "the key elements for lessons from past mistakes. It frontation."
Staff Reporters peace among the nations of the is our duty to see that they nev-Middle East now exist." er happen again. But our great-Bicentennial opening The bill to lower the drinking age to 19 was killed yesterday he steps er duty look to
before reaching a vote in the Indiana House of Representatives. But said must be is to the future 
taken to maintain an effective .. Beginning his address on aThe bill was withdrawn by supporters to prevent certain defeat. 
intelligence capability for with· In the near future, Ford said Bicentennial note, ~<'vrd said allHcp. Stanley Jones (D-Lafayette), co-sponsor of the bill with Rep. 
out it, he argued, "the United he will act to "reform and Americans can declare in uni­Marion Schultz (0-Bioomington), said that supporters had mustered States stands blindfolded and strengthen" the intelligence ap-son:
only 47 votes, four shy of the 51 necessary for passage. am of
hobbled." "I proud Ar erica and 
"In withdrawing the drinking bill," the wire report stated, · h h · paratus. proud to be an Amuican. L1"fe
Assertmg t at "t e Amencan The President also said, with·"Jones said it still was inconsistent for persons under 21 years old people have he~rd too mu~h out giving figures, that he will be better here for my chil­to be able to serve in the armed forces, buy property and marry--but about how t~rnble our mis-would submit a new defense (continued on puge6)not be served in a bar." 
takes, evil and Wednesday "will
.Iones acknowledged the role of the Notre Dame Student Lobby in how our deeds, budget that attempts to secure the bill's passage. 
Dropping exam week rejected
Bad timing 
Jerry Klingenberger, co-coordinator of the ND Student Lobby, 
as possible calendar solution
blamed the failure to secure the needed votes on bad timing. "It was a short session," Klingenberger said, "and the primaries in two months mean that people won't vote with a losing or byDaveBeno finals week. Pressure upon tea almost as a necess1ty." controversial bill." Staff Reporter ehers who do decide to distribute According to the vice president ''Rather than hold the vote, which would have meant putting 
finals and upon students who might of Indiana University (IV), their people on the spot in the primaries,'' Klingenberger 
have exams in all their classes on final exam week was eliminated 
The idea of dropping final exam 
the last two class days were also four or five years ago, but they do 
week from the academic calendar 
cited as problems. plan to reinstitute one next year.
"Rather than hold the vote, which would have meant putting 
as a possible solution to the
people on the spot in the primaries," Klingenberger explained, Pointing out the difficulties of The exam week was originally done 
calendar problem is opposed by
''we withdrew it before it could be killed. such a move, Mike Gassman, away with "to abolish the lame 
deans of the colleges of Notre 
Council representative, stated that duck period after Thanksgiving.'' a major setback." Dame. the abolition of finals week might At that time IV students had "If it had been defeated," he continued, "it would have been 
In a survey taken yesterday, the 
not provide sufficient study time their finals after the Christmas 
deans and Academic Council fac­
for those with final exams and break. The only way to combat thisUphill struggle 
ulty and student representatives 
might force some students to have interval of laxity, it seemed, was to were polled for their reaction to the 
final exams too close together. do away with the final exam wv:.:k idea of dropping the final exam Sr. Madonna, assistant professor and end the semester beforeKlingenbergcr termed the lobbyists' efforts "an uphill struggle" 
and said that they were "frankly disappointed" and "seriously hurt 
week. Of the six deans polled (one 
of American Studies, noted that Christmas.
by the lack of support from Indiana University and Purdue. 
from each college plus the· Dean of Indiana University (Bloomington) IU's final exam week for next"Notre Dame was the dominant force down there," Klingenbcr­
Administration), four were 
and some other colleges do not year (1976-'77) has been "approvedgcr stated. "We're optimistic for next year. NO made a good name 
for itself." opposed to such an action, one have a finals week. At these on a one-year basis because of a 
reserved comment, and one was 
schools, however, the professor survey in which the faculty said theStudent Body Vice President Tom Fitzgerald echoed Klingenber­
unavailable at the time. 
may give an exam if he wishes. pedagogicully
gcr's statements and praised the efforts of coordinator Tom Black. two-hour exam was 
The two Academic Council stud­
desirable," said the vice president. 
"Tom Black stepped into a newly created position," Fitzgerald 
ent representatives polled favored
sui d. "He showed tremendous leadership and laid good Sr. Madonna Kolbenschlag, as­It has already been recommended,
the proposal, while the remaining sistant professor of American Stud­however, to dispense with examgroundwork for next year." 
four were unavailable for comment. 
ies, noted that Indiana University week once again during the 1977•78Twelve student leuders traveled to Indianapolis last Thursday to (Bloomington) and some other school year.
try to convince lcgislutors of the bill's merit. At that time lobbyist Two faculty representatives from colleges do not have a finals week. Purdue University Provost Felixand Student Body President Ed Byrne estimated the bill's chances each college were randomly polled. At these schools, however, the Haas stated that Purdue did notas "SO-SO," while other members of the Student Lobby expressed Four opposed the idea, two had no professor may give an exam if he have a week set aside for finalsmore optimism. 
and two not wishes. about 15 years ago.
"We thought we had a better chance than we really did," comment, were However, the 
available. Kolbenschlag pointed out that "faculty thought it educationallyKlingenberger admitted yesterday. Still, he added, "the bill has Elimination of all final exams Notre Dame is "so science-orient­desirable to employ a final exammade progress; it has come out of committee." 
was most commonly cited, as a ed. In the science classes, the final week," said Haas. Purdue has had"Next year," Fitzgerald said, "we'll take it further." 
reason for opposing abolition of exams seem to be perpetuated one ever since. 

the observer Tuesday, January 20, 1976

,__--News Briefsto-o--__,.. 
t==========International King drafts soldiers; protestresults 
MADRID* Spain--King Juan Carlos drafted 120,000 more Spanish workers into military service Monday in an attempt to stem fresh labor and political unrest and avert a nationwide rail strike. 
Anti-government forces ranging from Communists to moderates responded by preparing a protest march to demand national elections to decide the country's form of government. 
Civil war ceasefire announced 
BEIRUT, Lebanon--A new cease-fire worked out with Syrian help and aimed at ending Lebanon's nine-month-old civil war between Moslems and Christians was announced Monday night. If it holds, Rashid Karami, a Moslem, might reconsider his resignation as premier. 
1==============1'-!." ational 
Government bans dye 
WASHINGTON--The Food and Drug Administration today banned Rd Dye No. 2, the most widely used color additive in the United States, from all future production of foods, drugs and cosmetics. 
The decision by Commissioner Alexander M. Schmidt came after a new statistical analysis of a three-year-old laboratory study upheld findings that the dye had produced malignant tumors in test animals. 
Highestaverage in 3 years 
NEW YORK--The stock market carried its early-1976 rally to a new peak Monday with a sharp advance fueled by a continued decline in interest rates. 
The Dow Jones average of 30 industrial stocks jumped 14.09 to 943.72, its highest close since it finished at 948.83 on Nov. 1, 1973. 
I=====================Local 
Bicentennial footnote. 
INDIANAPOLIS--Lt. Gov. Robert D. Orr named a seven-member committee on Monday to organize a statewide youth conference to plan Indiana's future into the 21st century. 
Orr said the conference, a Bicentennial event to be called "Hoosier Horizons '76," would be held at Indianapolis in September, with 2,500 young people expected to attend. Two hundred years ago today, General George Washington wrote to General Benedict Arnold outside Quebec, saying of Canada that if it falls into American hands, "success, I think, will most certainly crown our virtuous struggles." 
On Campus Today 
6:00p.m · karate dub meeting, ace, rayrrond I. sell, instructor 7:30p.m-"dlarismatic prayer'' meeting, rathskellar, Ia fortune baserrent 
St. Joseph Right to Life to sponsor 'Rally for Life' 
A "Rally for Life" sponsored by The rally program features pro-
the St. Joseph County Right to Life life music and speakers, including: Committee will be held from noon Fr. Richard Kennedy, C.S.C., to I p.m. Thursday. January 22nd Chaplain of Faith, Hope and Char­
on Riverbend Plaza in front of ity Chapel, South Bend; Dr. Char­Robertson's. les Rice, Professor of Law, Univer­
The rally commemorates the sity of Notre Dame Law School and third anniversary of the legalization Mrs. Marshall Smelser, member of of Abortion in the United States by St. Joseph County Right to Life the Supreme court. Spokesmen for Committee. the group report that the rally is also scheduled to "re-emphasize Local representatives from both our goal of reversing the decision of St. Joseph County Right to Life and the Court thru a Constitutional Indiana Right to Life will attend a Amendment which would protect national rally scheduled for the human life from conception." same day in Washington, D.C. 
:~;~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::8::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:;:: 
~ ~~t~\B~r ~ 
···~ ~··· 
CELEBRATES ITS NEW REMODELING. 
NOWTHRU THURS. JAN. 22 
BOTTLE BEER & ALL MIXED $.50 
DRAFT $.40 
:::: ~~ 
=~: ~~ 
I ~
. 
. ~ 
~:: HAPPY HOUR THURSDAY 5-11 p.m. :::; 
~[ 7-7's $.25 I 
~ ~==.:,.·.························,;,•;,;;-.-..··········•JO,•·..-.·····--·-···-···---·····--···-· =~ 
·~-!--~~=-~~=·=·=·=·=·~·=·=-=--"A......·=·=·=-=·=·=·:·:.:·:·:·.·».-~~~=~=~=~:...:-..:-..:~-===~:=~::::::::::::-.:-.:-.::::!!!!::!!:~:!:?.~:~:~:~:=:~:=:~!!:?.~:!:!:!:!:?.8 
FCC votes increase 
AT&T to raise long-distance rates 
WASHINGTON <AP) -The while an increase of $365 mil­authorized. Federal Communications Com­lion wa.s justified by increased In Monday's ruling the com­mission voted Monday to allow cost of debt, further proceed­mission found that AT&T's American Telephone & Tele­ings were needed to determine existing capital structure of 49 graph Co. to increase its long­whether all or part of the re­per cent debt, 51 per cent distance telephone rates enough maining request could be justi­equity and 6.9 per cent em­to raise its rate of return on its fied on the basis of increased bedded cost of debt were appro­investments from 8.74 per cent cost of equity. priate bases for establishing its to 9.5 per cent. During this proceeding Bell over-all earnings requirements. 
It was not clear immediately contended that changes in the what increases it would mean economic environment war­The commission further con­in telephone costs for Bell Sys­ranted an increase even grea­cluded that Bell's present cost tem customers. ter than that originally sought of equity was 12 per cent, lead­
The vote was 7 to 0. -$660 million in addition to a ing to the over-all required rate 
The commission rejected a $365 million increase previously of return of 9.5 per cent. request by Bell to increase its rate of income between 10.5 per cent and 11 per cent, for an in­crease of general revenues of 
BOOK BARN

V5~ NEW and OLD
$660 million. 
IN THE NEW GEORGETOWN CENTER 
The commission concluded 
Just off Cleveland. Turn left at the
that an increase of only about 
Georgetown Sign at Emmons Road. 272-5520
$225 million annually had been 

justified by the record of the 
preceding period stretching r------~~------------· ---,
I ----SPECIAL----SPECIAL ----I 
over the past seven years. 
I I
AT&T said it will be unable 
I
to indicate how much rates will 
I * VALENTINE SPECIAL * 
be raised until after the FCC issues the full text of its deci­I WITH THIS COUPON sion and sets a filing schedule. I 
Initially AT&T had requested I NOWTHRU FEB.14 an annual increase of $717 mil­
I 
lion in January 1975. The com­RECEIVE:
I 
mission found at that time that 
I 
REDKEN PROTEIN CONDITIONER $1.50
( ) I 
SHAMPOO, HAIRCUT,
the observer 
$8.50 
AND BLOW DRY 
Night Eifitor: Bob Brink 
Assistant Night Eifitor: AI Ruther­
ford TOTAL VALUE $10.00 I I
Layout Staff: Kathy McEntee, 
NOW ONLY $6.50
Jeff Norkus, Bill Rivard I Day Eifitor: Don Reirrer ALSO I Copy Reader: Jack D'Aurora I Eifitorials: Ken Girouard 
20% OFF ANY PERMANENT I 
Features: Tom 0'NeiI 
I 
Sports: Bill Brink WE CARRY A COMPLETE liNE OF 
I
Typists: Howard Halle, Tessie 
Clerrents, Mel Celeste 
REDKEN PRODUCTS. 
Picture Saeener: Mike Kron 
OPEN 6 DAYS A WEEK, INCLUDING
L 
Ad Layout: Joe Grail J 
Night Controller: David Rust 
I THURS. & FRIDAY EVENINGS I 
l he Oo~erver is pubIished Monday through Fr1day and weekly during 
I 
the summer ~es~10n, except during exams and vacation periods The 
I 
I ~.~.~ ~~~~~:~l'l}(()
Observer 1S published by the 
I 
students of the Univ of Notre 
I
D'ame and St Mary·s College Suo~cr,pt•ons may be purchased 
I 
tor 10 dollars per semester 1t8 
I 203 N. MICHIGAN 
dollars per year) from The Ob server. Box Q. Notre Dame. In 
I 
I Ph. 232-2194
d1ana, 46556 Second Class postage 
Paid, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
I 
---COUPON----COUPON--­
L ~ 
=============-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
r Get more out 
ofyourlastl years
ofcollege. 
Iffor some reason you missed taking Army ROTC in your first two years of college, you can still take it in your last two. But only if you apply while you're still a sophomore. 
In order to make up for the years you missed, you'll have to attend a special camp in the summer before your junior year. You'll earn up to a total of $2,900 in the Two-Year Program. You'll get some good management experience. And you'll get a commis­sion as an Army officer along with a college degree. 
.--------------------------,
Army ROTC 
NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 
Please send me more mformatlon about the Army ROTC _ 
Two-Year Program. 
Ms.
Mr._____________________ 
Address___________________ 
City_________County__________ 
State_______Zip_____Phone______ 
College Attending_______--'---------­Graduation Date _________________ 
@'lbe Anny ROTC 1Wo-YearProgram 
l 
I "Under the authority of Title 10, USC 2101-2111, your address is needed to · provide you materials on the Army ROTC program. Completion of this form is voluntary. Not completinjl this form will prevent us from mailing 1 you material. Information obtamed will be used for ROTC enrollmenl_L
purposes." 
______J 
Concerns rights of faculty the observer
Tuesday, January2o, 197l 
3 
Academic Council to discuss two proposals 
by Kathy MIUs procedure, Cushing said. He ex­on appointments and procedures 
Senior Staff Reporter plained this would prevent the recourse to a "neutral third party." 
administration from "unilaterally ''There is a good chance for the 
The Academic Council will dis­overturning positive recommendat­Academic Council to pass the first cuss tonight two Faculty Senate ions, which they can now do." proposal," Cushing stated. "how­proposals giving faculty members ever, the one on the appeals board more rights in appointment decis­is a much more radical change. It ions, promotions and tenure. Appeals board will be a tough one." 
Under the present system of Cushing explained the ex officio appointments and promotions, a According to Cushing, the ap­members of the Academic Council faculty member has no right to an peals procedure would make it are mainly members of the admin-explanation if he is rejected for incumbent upon the administration istration. "That's 30 promotion or tenure, explained to defend its case before a Univers­votes," he pointed out, "and they James Cushing, member and 1974 ity-wide, neutral appeals board. normally vote as blocs, whereas the -75 chairman of the Faculty Senatr. "This would entail getting expert faculty members do not. We must One of the Faculty Senate propos­opinion from outside the Univers­work to neutralize their voting." als would require the dean and ity," he noted. "These decisions, ''These recommendations have provost to give reasons for reject­especially about tenure, should be been around for a while," Cushing ions to the department committee made on a professional basis," he commented. He said the Faculty on appointments and promotions continued, "and a professional Senate sent them to the executive which made the recommendation, decision should require profession­committee of the Academic Counci' as well as to the faculty member. ally qualified people." last April. "However, the Academ 
The second proposal would es­Cushing added this appeals pro­ic Council was not called until tablish a grievance or appeals cedure would give the committees December. One reason for this was 
Ombudswoman? 
O'Donnell appointed director 
by Maureen Flynn 
OunptLo; Editor 
Ombudsman Director Matt Cockrell announced yesterday the appointment of Bridget O'Donnell as Deputy Director of the Ombud­sman service. 
O'Donnell will hold that position until March, at which time she will take over as director with the approval of the new Student Body President. 
O'Donnell has served as a tele­phone volunteer and as a member and then as head of the Community Relations division. 
·'Bridget has worked for the organization for a year and a half,'' Cockrell said. ''She is very close to 
us; she really knows what the Ombudsman is about." 
"She has worked in many in­stances directly with the stud­ents," Cockrell explained. "She has a close sense of contact with the students' needs." 
O'Donnell was chosen by the Steering Committee of the Ombud­sman Service from six candidates interviewed for the position, and her appointment was ratified by SBP Ed Byrne. 
"The Steering Committee is confident that Bridget has the ability to seek advice from other responsible students," Cockrell said. "She knows where to go and how to respect the advice of others." 
O'Donnell. a junior American Studies major from Rocky River, Ohio, said she plans to spend the period of her service as deputy "Boning up on all the aspects of Student Government." 
Concerning future plans, O'Donnell said, "It's almost im­possible to foresee a definite program. We can't tell what situat­ions might pop up next year. They might decide to eliminate summer vacation," she said. 
"We will continue the telephone service. That's a big part of the operation," the new deputy direc­tor said. "I'd also like to define jobs more distinctly within the organization." 
O'Donnell said she foresees a major part of her job as "trouble­shooting. I'd like to sit down with student leaders prior to next sem­ester to see where the troubles 
THE 
RESUME PLACE 
25 
R/\G ROND 
Only $2.55 
insly·prints · 
203 N. MAIN SO.BEND, IND 
289-6977 
the Faculty Senate proposals alone up of these committees is deter­were not enough business," he mined by the respective depart­added. ments, although the department 
An ad hoc committee of the chairman is always a member of Faculty Senate drew up these the committee. recommendations during the sec­The role of these committees is 
ond semester of last year, Cushing to make recommendations concern­said. "The work was done quick­ing appointments, promotions and ly,'' he commented. ''The people tenure. These recommendations on the committee had thought and a report from the department about it a lot." chairman are sent to the dean of 
the college, Cushing said. The Present system dean then adds his comments and sends everything to the provost. Under the current system, as The administration makes a dec­
outlined in the Academic Manual, ision based on these recommendat· each department in the University ions and reports. The faculty has its own committee on appoint­member is then informed of the ments and promotions. The make -decision. 
Teacher evaluation forms receive favorable response 
by Brigid Rafferty who distributes them to each Staff Reporter individual faculty meamber for consideration. After studying other tcadK·r 
New teacher evaluation forms evaluation forms, the Purdue form used by some St. Mary's professors was selected by the committee a~ last semester have received a an option to the traditional St. favorable response, according to Mary's form, which many students Dr. David Sever. chairman of the and teachers were discontl·nted committee for the restudy of teach­with. er evaluation forms. 
"All the faculty were gJVen the choice of using the Purdue form
Under the Purdue, or "Cafeter­instead of the standard St. Marv's
ia" form, the instructor can choose 
~as
35 items from a possible 195, form," said Dr. Sever. "It which best provide an indication 
entirely voluntary. Thirty five members representing 65 course~of student opinion on his teaching 
used the new style."
methods. In addition to the He noted that most students and
questions he selecats, he is requir­teachers agree that this method
ed to include five "core" items on enables them to be more hone~!
the form. He may also write in his and personal. The results arc also
own questions. "It gives the faculty ·member more flexibility," easier for the faculty member to interpret than the standard form.
stated Dr. Sever. Dr. Sever added. however. "A
By employing the Cafeteria number of faculty members consid­
form, St. Mary's is participating in an experiment by Purdue Univer­er the matter of having students evaluate a teacher from theit· own
sity. After being completed by the viewpoint as an inappropriate way
students, the collected evaluation of evaluation.
forms are sent to Purdue, where 

they are tabulated and the results recorded. They are then returned to St. Mary's vice-president of academic affairs, who distributes them to each department head. 
If you're good enough, you can be a Navy Nuclear Officer. 
The Navy needs some very special college graduates who aren't afraid lo find out how good they really are. Who will consider our extensive and demanding training pro­gram. the most exciting chal­lenge of their lives. A challenge that leads to an exciting future as a Naval Officer aboard a nuclear-powered surface ship or submarine. 
Find out more from your local recruiter, or call toll-free 800-841 -8000. 
Be Someone Special in the Navy. 
Lt. E. M. Schaefer Military Science Building 
283-6442 
*lJ~J.Q~~~ver
Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­mentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, cartoons and regular columns express the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and leNers are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Editorials: 283-1715 News: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Business Manager Tom Modglin Advertising Manager Tom Whelan 
EDITORIAL BOARD Teny Keeney Editor-in-Chief AI Rutherford Managing Editor Jim Eder Executive Editor Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor Bob Mader News Editor Maureen Rynn Campus Editor Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor Ken Bradford Copy Editor Val Zurblis Wire Editor Tom O'Neil Features Editor Bill Brink Sports Editor Dan Sanchez Senior Night Editor 
Tuesday, January 20, 1976 
.J 
P.O.BoxQ 
Irate Parents Respond 

Edltor's Note: The following letters are among those sent to Ed Byrne from irate parents of stu­dents who will be unable to go home for Thanksgiving because of the Academic CouncU's vote last December. Byrne has forwarded them to the Observer so that the entire University community may see the kind of response he has received. 
Dear Edltor: 
As you can see by the black border, this is not an "irate" letter, but a sympathy letter. Sympathy for the death of a tradition. Sympathy for all of the families who will be separated next Thanksgiving, and most of all-­Sympathy for the "irates" who don't want their families together. 
Christmas Day, families, especi­ally those with small children, usually prefer to stay at home with their toys and presents, but Thanksgiving is traditionally a family day. A day when relatives and friends all get together. 
We can't imagine parents, even "irate" ones, not wanting their sons and daughters home for a holiday. For families who love one another, there is no sadder time than a holiday spent alone. Since a few, who do not want their children to come home chose to ease their conscience by demand­ind that the vacation be eliminated, the rest of us will be punished. Surely we should have the option of having our loved ones at home on this family day. If the "irates" don't want their children at home 
--send them home to the rest of us. At our house it's... The more the merrier! 
Please reconsider this decision. 
Barbara and John Ossenfort To Whom It May Concern: 
Upon reading the several articles on the 1976 calendar it seems to me that: 
1. 
The students are in favor of an October break; 

2. 
This was accepted by the Administration; 

3. 
The Thanksgiving holiday was cancelled; 

4. 
This was not accepted by the students; 

5. 
A few parents were not in favor of two trips home by their offspring; 

6. 
I can hardly believe the reasoning was because of the expense. I might go further and say I would not like to believe this 


was the reason I 
What is more important to a parent than the child God loaned to them to care for to the best of their ability. There is more than one way to travel and it need not be the expensive airplane trip! 
As a parent I would wish to have as we have had so many Thanksgiv­ings beforehand; my entire family together to give 'Thanks' befitting the occasion. This is possible distance-wise by my daughter at­tending Notre Dame. 
If it need be arranged that some other days other than Christmas, Easter and Thanksgiving be taken out of the calendar I for one would wholeheartedly approve. 
Hoping you will consider this letter important enough to recon­sider your decision on the 1976 calendar, I remain: 
Sincerely, Ruth C. Hohl [Mrs. John Q. Hohl] 
Mr. Byrne: 
Our son has just informed us consideration is being given to eliminate the Thanksgiving holi­day. 
Since Greg is not our first, but our last in the family, to go away to college, we feel we have at least some knowledge and experience in such matters. 
We protest any such action for the following reasons: 
1. 
We believe the Holiday has meaning, not only to the parents but to the majority of students. 

2. 
It allows the student a short holiday at home when possible. (This is especially important with freshman). Many times when a student cannot go home because of distance, they are invited to the 


homes of their friends which can be a rewarding experience. 
3. 
The four day Holiday comes as a pleasant, unpressured break -with a reason -prior to finals starting. 

4. 
After reviewing Jhe school schedule. it is evident if one additional day of class study is necessary, there are many other ways of adding that day instead of eliminating the traditional Thanks­giving Holiday. 


Regards, Mr. & Mrs. Carl Skraznas 3642 Ross Avenue San Jose, Ca. 95124 
Dear Mr. Byrne: 
We have just been informed that the students of Notre Dame may not have a Thanksgiving vacation next year. 
We hope that this is just a rumor. 
We feel that Thanksgiving day is a very traditional holiday in our small family, and wish to have all our loved ones together at this time. 
This is also a time when our son can see his friends who are attending other schools in other states. 
Thank-you. 
Sincerely, 
Mr. and Mrs. M.E. Leary 
. -·· -~ --­
'11-IE FOLLONIN' BLAST IS BROUGHT TO YOU BV 1HE LOVIN' VONAllONS OF OUR lDVAL AMERICAN 
COUSIN$ IN lHE IRISH NORIHERN AID COMMIITEE, MAV 11[1R NAMES BE BLESSED!' 
DOONESBURY 
Ml?. AMBAS5A{)()R, ~ I UNClfiRSTAN{) YOU ~,...., MET lf/ITH 711~ ~~­~....,___.., OENT 8EFO!?£ U/& 
• ,..~ /£fT. PIP H& SAY ANY7H/N6 70 YOU ABOUT 'rOUR ACL£/..­E!<ATING 085&55/0N U/ITH PRI/65? 
~8/JST&~.t-me PResJ­
o&m KNfJt(JS r uve IN A ~CIJ()J(GR OF Hlf7H­tCVEL OIPtOMACYJWP INT&R­NATIONAL-INTRJ(j()e! H& R£aJ&Ntze5 7/IATA MAN 
IN MY frJSITION Nl!iePS 
Dear Father Hesburgh, 
I'm writing this letter because 
our son just informed me of the 
1976-77 calendar. 
He carefully explained all sides 
and I saw all newspaper articles 
and the plans given to the students 
which they were to vote on and the 
results. 
I realize the enormous task and 
problems involved but please re­
consider about the Thanksgiving 
break. 
We want our son home for 
Thanksgiving. That's what it's all 
about. Thanking God for every­
thing, including family. 
I'm sure whatever decision you 
make will be what you are truly 
being led to do. Thank you for 
reading this. I just had to make my 
appeal. It's important to have Ron 
home on Thanksgiving Day. 
God Bless! Mrs. Maureen Tucker 
Dear Mr. Byrne, 
This past weekend we learned from our daughter Barbara (a Notre Dame junior), of the Laugh-in to protest the schedule for the 1976-77 school year. May we add the "ha-has," uttered through clench­ed teeth, of two irate parents. Ironically, while the rest of Amer­ica is up to its eyeballs in tradition in 1976, Notre Dame vetoes tradi­tion by denying its students the customary family gathering for Thanksgiving. 
There are much more serious objections to a nine-day break in October. Such a long interruption of the academic program makes it difficult to resume studies and to maintain continuity in courses . For freshmen, who are just becom­ing accustomed to college life, the lengthy hiatus could be disastrous. Further, in the world in which we bill-payers live--apparently far re­moved from academe--an extended vacation is not in order a mere six weeks after a three-month summer vacation. We have no objection to a short break at mid-term, but nine days is ridiculous. 
We hope you will relay a message to the Notre Dame admin­istration and faculty: "Stop play­ing games with our sons and daughters." 
Very truly yours, 
Car and Dorothy Heck 
Dear Sir: 
It has been brought to my attention that the University of Notre Dame, in preparing its schedule for the academic year 1976-77, is contemplating the elim­ination of a break for the Thanks­giving holiday. As the father of a student I am surprised that such action would even be considered. 
by Garry Trudeau 
OF C:OIJRS& NOT, /JICK!­JY?RY ANP I HAV& AN VNOfRSTANOIN6-I {)(;NT MAKff ANYCOMM&NT5 YOfJ ABofJTH/5 L-ACK OF MMN, H& MrJlOR SKil[4ANPHe ACTIJAUY /JOESN'r HA5SI£ M~ C0N{)()N6S 

ABOIJTMY INTeREST YOUR IN STIMVtANTS/ BEHAVIOR? 
88510&5, Cli,CMON­
HISSCWts I H&ARI? --A POT-H~ /JOCSN'T \. H&AO. INHALE.. 
Thanksgiving, more than any other 
holiday, has always been consi­
dered a "family" day, one that 
even the young people cherish and 
now we find that the University of 
Notre Dame, the only college that 
we know of to do so, is ready to hav 
e the students forego one of the 
great American traditions. I 
understand the student body is 
disturbed by this and I can fully 
agree with it. 
I trust that further consideration 
be given this matter--certainly the 
one-day break (the day after 
Thanksgiving) could be made up at 
some other time during the sem­
ester. 
RespectfuUy yours, 
Robert E. Burchett 
Mr. Ed Byrne: 
I should like to protest the 1976 
Thanksgiving ruling of the holiday 
only and not Friday. My grand­
daughter Nina Burrell will not be 
able to come to us in Akron for this 
short period. I am 78 years old and 
my husband is 80. As the Burrell 
family lives in Arizona we have 
looked forward to this visit. 
Agnes M. Breen [Mrs.C.M.] 
Dear Father Hesburgh, 
Mrs. Olehnik and I were very much surprised at the unbelievable decision to limit the 1976 Thanks­giving break to a single day. 
Thanksgiving being what it is, traditional and a national holiday as well, it is important to us to have our family together on this day of thanks. It has been traditional for twenty years to have both sides of the family (now numbering 20) for Thanksgiving dinner at our home. Your decision will preclude a complete gathering of the "clan" for the first time in twenty years. 
We enjoin you and your staff to please reconsider the recent deci­sion so that those that so desire can have their young adults at home for a traditional Thanksgiving Day. 
WalterV. Olehnlk 
Dear Ed Byrne 
. I think you should convince the administration to let the students of Notre Dame have the Friday after Thanksgiving off. I only get to see my sister at Thanksgiving and Christmas therefore I think she should be able to return for Thanksgiving at home with our family. Therefore I rest my case that the students of Notre Dame have The Friday after Thanksgiv­ing off! Please do what you can. 
Renee Rozelle's Brother Kacy 
. 


TV in the hands of students-­
HBe~ond Our Control" 
Due to circumstances beyond our con­trol. "Beyond Our Control" will begin its eighth season on WNDU-TV, Channell6 in South Bend next January. 
The program is directed and written entirely by high school students participat­ing in a local Junior Achievement com­pany. Beyond Our Control is a humorous, satirical reflection of the American culture through the "entertainment" available to the average television viewer. It is describ­ed in promotional material as simply, "A 
T.V. show about T.V." 
Skits on the show have included parodies on game shows such as "The Nearly-Wed Game or How Do You Play This Game"; early morning talk shows in "The Yester­day Show" and "Good Morning, Ameri­ca," and the daytime favorites, soap operas in "Love of Lust." 
Of course, not all of the material is based on current programs. Many of the skits are based on original ideas created by the show's writers. Such as WIMP-TV, Chan­nel I, a station with big ideas and no money. This has been a regular on and off during the program's existence. 
Along with their skits on programs the show also depicts commercials. For the would-be mechanic their advertisements offer "Betty Rockers' Mechanics Cards." The benefits are detailed: _ 
When you subscribe, we send you a 
new category every month, with tempting 
projects like: 'Quick and Easy Lube 
Jobs'••• ' Budget-Stretching Your Fan Belt' 
...and 'Under the Hood When Company 
Comes.' 
Producing the program is fun --thirty 
company members dedicate a substantial 
amount of time and hard work to the 
project. Preparations and writing have 
made this show a year-round operation. 
In the fall the company announces a membership drive through local high schools, word-of-mouth and by advertise­ments on Channel 16. Anyone who hears the announcement, WNDU provides a 70 mile radius, is eligible to be interviewed. A committee consisting of three advisors, employees of the station, and the top four returning achievers interview the candi­dates. · 
The company is under the Junior Achievement program. JA is a youth-ori­
\ I
'' ·­
~~-fr. bill toohey
Beginning a new year -a new semeste'r ­might not be a bad time to look anew at the most basic questions of life (some ground­work for issues and themes for some future columns in the coming weeks). 
Might as well start at the beginning. How does it all begin? It starts with love. Or it doesn't begin at all. From the very first moment of existence, love :s indispen­sable for survival. To an infant, for example, love is indispensable for survival. To an infant, for example, emotional warmth is as crucial as vitamins and fresh air. We kid a lot about TLC [tender loving caret. but people can't live normal lives without it. Deficiency in love causes emotional retardation and even death. Hl'w many death certificates issued from old­age homes and one-room apartments could read--"Cause of death: lack of affection and esteem." 
We come into the world with a thirst. but don't always realize that essentially it is a longing for God, whose love alone can sustain us, a love that is invovled in every experience we have of authentic love. We hear Jesus' question lin last Sunday's gospel 1. "What are you looking for?" and frequently all we know for sure is we're looking to satisfy that thirst; we want to tind happiness. contentment, fulfillment. 
Only too often. however, what we see all around us seems to verify Thoreau's assessment: "Most people live lives of 4uict desperation." 
We find ourselves standing, like the Samaritan woman at the well, with our bucket in hand, striving in every choice to satisfy our thirst. We get lots of advice from the commercial hucksters who born­
martha fanning 
entated operation that teaches high school students about business in a "Learn by Doing" situation. Individuals who have heard about JA probably associate prod­ucts such as lamps, key chains and similar items with Junior Achievement companies. Beyond Our Control is unique. 
Under the guidance of Sales and Production Advisor Joe Dundon, employed by the station as a T.V. Accounts Executive, the salesmen of the company learn the basics about how to sell commercial spots. Dundon started in the BOC program one year after its premiere. 
From this revenue the company pays bills, including studio costs at the station. 
Along with dealing with finances the company must write and produce scripts. Writing is done by six or seven individuals with a core of three generating most of the material. Involved with this aspect of the operation is the show's producer, Dave Williams, Promotional Manager of WNDU-TV. 
Every Wednesday night the entire 
company meets. Scripts are distributed 
and parts assigned for the various roles. 
From Wednesday to Saturday the roles are 
learned and the set designer, along with 
his committee, are hard at work preparing 
sets and acquiring the necessary props. 
The set designer, aided by Art and 
Production Advisor Denny Laughlin, Art 
Director of WNDU, makes "Mock-ups" on 
paper of the sets needed for the weekend. 
The Beyond Our Control program dates 
back to the 1967-68 company year. WNDU 
had been sponsoring a Junior Achievement 
company since 1959. In the first years the 
students produced programs that included 
panel and game shows. However, in 1967 
the students wanted to do something 
different; Beyond Our Control was born. 
The show set out to mirror the American 
culture as seen through the eyes of 
television. They wanted to poke fun at all 
aspects of that culture. Popular television 
shows, movies, commercials and social 
issues all became fair game. 
The show opens with an artwork type 
film of a family assembling before their 
television set. Then a series of pictures are 
flashed on the screen showing scenes of 
our culture. Some slides are from the show, 
that cosmopolitan girl 
bar<l us from morning to night with their enticing call. 
A little over a month ago, Cosmopolitan magazine ran a full-page ad in The New York Times that seems to capture an ideal of American happiness... an answer to Jesus' question, "What are you looking for?" 
Its message [a interpreted by writer, Roger Rosenblatt) is brought to us by a brunette of, say, 26, wearing a Japanese robe open to the sash. On her left hand, posed on a lapel, is a thick, shiny bracelet, like Wonder Woman's. On her right hand, posed on her waist, are three more bracelets. She wears earrings, nail polish, a small pearl necklace, and her long hair looks terrific. She looks a little like "Creamy" [of Noxema Shave Cream fame]. 
Well, anyway, her mouth is .a perfect mouth, slightly puckered, to rexeal perfect teeth, but not as in speech or a kiss. Her nose Is also perfect, her eyes at once attentive and vacant, perhaps dangerous. You feel it would be very bad manners to suggest in any way that she isn't one of the most beautiful creatures you've ever seen. 
Then she speaks. The ad copy has her say: "Let's see -tive friends who love me and think I'm funny ... an apartment that's finally the way I want it {lots of wicker, ferns and light]. the grey coat that cost too much but feels like butter... three new accounts at the agency directly traceable to me, plus the last of my baby fat gone [for good, I hope], and the man !love coming to dinner tonight with wine and love and magic. Yes, I've got everything to be thankful for ... and I ainl By the way, add to the list my favorite magazine. They've helped me month after month acquire all those lovely blessings, and I love them. I guess you could say I'm that Cosmopolitan Girl." 
It's no wonder she loves the thing: Keading Cosmopolitan has helped her assemble her life. And [we are to infer) if we read Cosmopolitan faithfully, we too will be loved, popular, tasteful, prosper­ous. We will be good to wildlife (ferns], yet be able to lay our hands on some expensive property; have a nose for business, romance, and true fulfillment. God, what a magazine! 
To give a sample of what you can look forward to, the current Cosmopolitan runs pieces on "How to Handle Two ']or more) Lovers at the Same Time," and "Beauty Tips from Beautiful People," in which Angie Dickinson recommends brushing with Colgate as a dietary measure. 
And that'!. the way it is for us in America, 1976. All the beautiful people are solicitously trying to help us answer Jesus' question, "What are you looking for?" Surely Ricardo Montalban, Cather­ine Deneuve, Bob Hope [and friends] wouldn't lead us astray. They're only trying to help us find what they know we need. · 
Still, we can't help feeling we've been 
conned. So we ask the obvious question: 
Ifthe diversionary, hedonistic, erotic quest 
-the acquiring, filling, gorging -really 
worked. why would so many who have tried 
all, done all, acquired all, end up empty, 
frustrated, suicidal? 
Could it be because that's what happens 
when you don't start out empty -available 
and accessible? Perhaps one ends up but most are borrowed from the WNDU files. 
Channel switching occurs during the show. The scenes are short and between skits are test patterns. The impression of the "family" frequently changing channels to find a program worth viewing, is the goal of the format. A few seconds of a scene may be shown then the "channel changes" and another program is on the air. Some skits are split up and shown at several intervals during the entire show. Though confusing the first time one sees BOC, it allows for a variety well worth watching. 
During the eight years of its existence, the duties of the company members have also evolved. In the early years the students acted only as floor directors and prop men. WNDU personnel performed the duties of cameramen, directors, audio men and advisers. Now the students do all the work, with the advisors always on hand to help out if necessary. 
Beyond Our Control appears on Satur­days and is viewed within a seventy mile radius. The area goes as far west as Chicago and east to the state lin During the season the show requests fan o write in to the station, expressing v ws and opinions on the show. BOC ;erages I 00-130 letters per year or I 0 ' show. Popular bits in the past include • nimated skits and last year's Flash Gherk1.. series. 
The 1973 edition of Beyond Ou Control was awarded a George Washingt••n Honor Medal by the Freedoms Foum!ation of Valley Forge in the Economics Education competition. On Feb. 20, 1974, the National Association of Television Program Executives (NATPE), named BOC the nation's best locally produced vari•·ty show in its market class. Beyond Our Control competed with professionally produced programs and there was no COffiJ'''nsation because it was produced by hig,, school students. 
N A TPE's citation described the ·;eries as "outstanding variety programmin : actual­ly produced by students in South Bend, that provided a new and ent.-rtaining insight into the status of contt.nporary American culture as mirrored hv the television industry itself." · 
== 
empty when he begins too filled up. 
There is a touching story a I ·nut a professor who comes to a Zen ma~tn. The professor says: "Hello, I'm doctor -11 and so, I'm such and such, and wouhl like to learn from you about Zen Buddis111 The master says: "Would you like to sit <lnwn. Would you like some tea?'' He pour· some tea and continues pouring even urtt·r the cup is full, and finally the professor ~ays, "Exactly. You came with a full cup Your cup is already spilling over, so hm, can I give you anything? You arc already overflowing with all that knowlt·clge. Unless you come with emptinc' and openness, I can give you nothing." 
I suspect the God of love and life says the same to us. We arc not looking for a "what'· -not if we are looking for true happiness. We're looking for a person; because the question, "What arc you looking for?" leads inevitably to another: "Whom are you looking for?" 
Commercial America, with all her polish­ed hucksters [spiritually bankrupt and antiseptic to gospel values]. has failed to show it has the least notion of the authentic answer to that question. For that we would do well to listen to a man who is too unkempt and scruffy to sell anything to consumer America. It's John the Baptist; and he says it well: "Look there. It is the lamb of God." 
Not a bad idea, beginning a new year by hearing that announcement again. And if we have the good sense to empty our cup of all that crowds out life and beauty and grace, we too might find the answer to our thirst. As He himself put it, "Come and see." 


6 
the observer Tuesday, January2o, 1976 
Motor vehicle citations increasing 
a single car may be ticketed more If students do not pay their fines than once for not being registered, and do not appeal their ticket, but the student will actually only price of the ticket is charged 
pay one fifty-dollar fee. their account. Faculty and In contrast. faculty and staff who refuse to pay recieve a members pay a ten-dollar fine for from Joseph O'Brien, director 
Ford Ylants tax cut, ceiling on spending 
!continued from page I J cnme cities "to help local au­thorities stop criminals from
dren than for me. 
selling and using handguns."
"I believe this not because I 
In talking about using block
am told to believe it, but be­grants instead of individual fed­cause life has been better for 
eral programs, Ford said: me than it was for my father "Including my health care re­.tnd mv mother. 
forms, I propose to consolidate"I krww it will be better for 
some 59 separate federal pro­
;,y children because my hands, grams and provide flexible fed­:1y brain. my voice and my 
eral dollar grants to help
• 1Jte. can help make it hap­states. cities and local agenciespen." 
in such important areas as edu­Calling for "a new realism" 
cation. child nutrition and so­m the conduct of government, 
cial services. This flexible sys­·· ord said the nation needs "a tem will do the job better andbalance that favors greater in­do it closer to home."
dividual freedom and self-re­Concluding with a Bicenten­
liance ... a balance that favors 
nial theme, Ford said: ~rea ter responsibility and free­"I have no doubt that our Un­dom for the leaders of our state ion will endure better,and local governments." 
stronger and with mors individ­ual freedom ... 
\lcdicare imprm;ement proposed 
"I see these United States of America moving forward as be­
While proposing catastroph1c 
fore toward a more perfect un­fwalth insurance for those cov­
ion where the government
(·red by Medicare, Ford said: serves and the people rule."
··we cannot realistically af­tord federally dictated national fwalth insurance providing full 
Johnson wants
coverage for all 215 million Americans'' However. he said he does 
housingproblem
"envision the day when we may use the private health in­surance system to offer more 
solved by RAs 
middle-income families high­quality health services at by Pat Payne prices they can afford and Staff Reporter shield them also from catastro­phic illnesses." Susan Johnson, appointed
In arguing for a 1977 increase Mary's housing coordinator Jan­in Social Security taxes, the uary 2. suggested yesterday that President said "simple arith­students first attempt to solve their metic warns all of us that the housing difficulties in conjunction Social Security trust fund is with their RA's,. Previous housing headed for trouble. Unless we coordinator Nannette Blais resign­act soon to make sure the fund ed to assume a position with IBM. 
takes in as much as it pays out, Johnson first came to St. Mary's there will be no security for in August to work for Project young or old." CHOICE, a government-funded
As with health insurance, program exploring sex discrimina­Ford said federal welfare pro­tion. She has had no previous ~rams cannot be radically al­experience with housing.tered overnight. 
She stressed that her most He said: "Surely we cannot 
time-consuming task is record­
simply dump welfare into the 
keeping. · • A large amount of laps of the 50 states, their local information comes from this office, taxpayers or private charities, including where students are 
and just walk away from it.Nor housed, their telephone numbers, is it the right time for massive and meal numbers. All records and sweeping changes while we 
must be accurate and constantly are still recovering from a re­kept up-to-date."
cession." 
With the school at full enroll­
Nevertheless, he said, "I will ment, Johnson pointed out that she 
ask Congress for presidential has been quite busy trying to authority to tighten up rules for 
accomodate students. "There are 
eligibility and benefits." 
very few vacancies at present, even 
though students are going to and 
Anti-crime program suggested coming from Rome and moving off 
campus." She added that the 
He also called for changes in withdrawal rate is extremely small. what he termed "the scandal-Johnson commented that she riddled food stamp program," applied for the job because she called for enactment of an anti-thought it would be "interesting." 
crime .pr.ogram he proposed She also not.ep, ··~t:s.so refreshing. :ast June, and recommended to be where students are really personnel, requestmg payment. Members of faculty and staff who still refuse to pay could theoretical­ly have the amount deducted from their paychecks, according to Roe­
mer. 
The Traffic and Parking Regula­tions state, "Motor vehicles must 
*
Observer 
Insight 
be moved at least every 48 hours.'' 
''That is for the students benefit and is not really enforced," Pears said. "If a car should be needed to be removed for some reason, we will contact the owner and ask him to move it." 
KEN'S DEN 
--HAIR STYLING -­MEN & WOMEN ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER (LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA) 
PH0NE 255-6500 
D 

Budweiser. ,\&Eagle 
WALLPAPER · WALL PLAQUES 
PUB MIRRORS "BUD" TELEPHONES FURNITURE · BEACH TOWELS 
COOLERS • SHEETS & PILLOW CASES 
SKI CAPS · SCARVES • T-SHIRTS TIFFANY LAMPS · 
PLAYING CARDS· TOTE BAGS SKI SWEATERS· HATS
t 
SALT & PEPPER SHAKERS BEAN BAG CHAIRS
oar(T e _, 
HASSOCKS · LAMPS lJ ~~ s WOMEN'S SLACKS MEN'S SLACKS SHIRTS . 
CHAIRS • MUGS 

ICE CHESTS GLASSWARES 
FOOTBALLS BASKETBALLS 
FLASHLIGHTS CANDLES 
COASTERS BAR STOOLS 
POOL CUES BLANKETS 
KEY RINGS BANKS · STEINS 
PILLOWS · RUGS 
CARD TABLES SERVING TRAYS ~ WALL CLOCKS CAN HOLDERS ~~ NAPKINS· 
PEWTER MUGS AND MANY
'i!!'n · " 1, 
MORE ITEMS
:~~;:Es~~::~RS ~orttN 
FROM WHICH 
TO CHOOSE
BELTS··· 
ltd. 
100 CENTER COMPLEX MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46544 259•0886 
+••··~··························
~ WE CATER FOR .{: . ;·\ \ VICTORY PARTIES 
KEG BEER 
(IN STOCK) 
HOURS: MON-SAT 
9:30 -MIDNIGHT 
FREE DELIVERY 
{with $15.00 
THE STONE 
BUFFALO 
CLOSE-OUT SALE ON ALL 
POTTERY 
CENTER 
minimum purchase 
PHONE: 259-0261 
0\JIIJU''-'1<·\,,..IJ\ 
STORAGE 
TROPICAL 
GENERAL & G 
IOUTIQUE. PLANTERS, DOLLS, 
GAMES I AMUSEMENTS, FESTIVE DECOlATIVE. PIISONAL ITEJAS II NOVELTIES, DECOIIATIVE PILLOWS, WOOOENWAIE I IOXES .. t'i'SE I INCENSE BURNERS, CANDLES I CANDLE HOLDERS, W"-tlfe.,.e .. AC, CESSOIIES. IEDSPREADS I SOFT GOODS, VASJ• ~ S U '). • b IELLS, DECORATIVE METALWARE, FIGURINES I CY.i tiO(\\ \ ,,0()1) I NATURAL MATERIALS. DEcoi!AnvF ,.. 0\v. ~ S\)"~ ..tcoR. IOOICS, WHITE PORCELAIN, DINNERW' ·, \\ \\\e \"" • q ,..tRAMIC MUGS, DIIINI( SEIIVICE ITEMS. GLAS• • ..,\ef t £.Q~ V ~ IJIIINK SEIIVICE GLASS, MISC. GLASSWARE, • i.ft te•• • ~ _; SERVICE, I'LACEMATS I NAPKINS, 
'TAILE TOP A\V"...,II. "'ot\• ..crl UTELSILS, POTS I PANS. OUTDOOR HOUSEkEEPING ~ ~•1'UES, ACCESSORIES, GARDEN TOOLS & ~ur'l'Unl11 
some lots, such as the Stepan Center lot, are checked often while other lots are not checked at all, Pears said, "All the lots are checked daily. The only time a lot may not be checked is when an incident like last week's heavy snow preoccupies security person­nel." 
Pearsz said the majority of the violations in the Stepan center lot come from Grace and Flanner students who for various reasons do not park in their assigned lot. 
The money accumulated from fines goes to supplement road and parking lot maintenance. Although he does not know the exact amount of money that comes in annually, Pears said he is sure it is not any where near the total amount of 
If a car gets more than five unpaid citations, and the car is not moved, the car can be towed away. Most of the cars that are towed are cars in the stadium lots before home football games, Pears siad. 
When Security resorts to towing, they hire the nearest available service station. The car is hauled to that station and the owner must pay the towing charge to get his car released. In addition, Security may impose a five dollar fine, Pears added. 
Pears said when someone com­plains to him about a ticket he will listen, and if the security depart­ment is in error he will revoke the ticket. But if there is any question in his mind, then the person must go before the Traffic Appeals 
EQUIPMENT RENTAL $6.00 DAY $8.00 WEEKEND 
By James Flahaven Staff Reporter 
With full enforcement ·of the Notre Dame motor vehicle regula­tions beginning again this week, the number of citations and the number of students complaining about fines is expected to rise accordingly. 
The complaints students usually make is that the fines are too severe. Student fines range from one dollar for improper parking to $50 for an unregistered car. In addition any combination of fines can be issued to a student making a citation in excess of $100 possible. 
Such massive fines can be de­cieving however. Arthur Pears, head of Notre Dame security, said all violations, and have to pay only after recieving two warning cita­tions. 
The Traffic Handbook, issued during vehicle registration, states that all fines are set by the dean of students. But James Roemer, dean of students, states the fines were already set before he came to Notre Dame in August. Pears said the fines had been designated by the Faculty Senate and the Student Life Council. 
Roemer said he could see rea­sons for leniency toward faculty and staff. "It is a courtesy the University may feel necessary. They can't really ask someone to come here and work and then turn around and sock them with a ticket for fifty dollars." 
the hiring of 500 more federal people and not treated as numbers. agents in the 11 largest high-Every student is important here." 

African states participate 

Talks initiated to aid war-ravaged Angola 
By The Associated Press 
Moderate African states were holding secret talks Monday in a new initiative to bring peace to war-torn Angola, reliable sources in Zambia reported. 
The sources said states taking part in the talks sought a coalition government and the withdrawal of all foreign troops to end the civil war which has ravaged the oil -and mineral-rich former Portuguese colony since last August. 
The African initiative coincided with U.S. Secretary of State Henry 
A. Kissinger's preparations for talks in Moscow on Angola as well as strategic arms limitation. 
Sources in Lusaka, the capital of Zambia. said the African states plan to create a government of national unity by merging the Marxist Popular Movement MPLA -and the pro-Western National Union -UNITA. 
The plan. however, would ex­clude UNITA's current ally, the National Front -FNLA -which has suffered serious military setbacks in northern Angola. 
Fighting continued in the south­west African country, with UNIT A forces planning a two-pronged offensive in the north and south, according to field reports reaching neighboring Zambia. 
UNITA sources said the move­ment is planning to airlift several battalions numbering over 2,000 men to northern Angola to aid the FNLA which has been mauled by Cuban troops leading MPLA for­
ces. 
The MPLA at present controls a broad strip across the center of the country, dividing the two Western­supported movements. 
Taking part in the effort to form a coalition arc the 22 African states which at the recent meeting of the Organization of African Unity op­
posed recognition of the Soviet and  coalition  government  led  by  the  what Kissinger had in mind when  
Cuban-backed  MPLA  as  the  sole  MPLA's  Agostinho  Neto,  would  he recently told African diplomats  
representative government of the  meet the demands of Africa's more  in  Washington  he  believed  the  
former Portuguese territory.  militant states which have already  conflict  would  be  over  within  a  
Zambian sources say the plan to  extended diplomatic recognition to  month.  
make  UNITA's  leader,  Jonas  the MPLA.  Cuba now has an estimated 9,000  
Savimbi,  the  No.  2  man  in  the  Such  an  agreement  could  be  troops  in  Angola  supporting  the  
Classified Ads  

NOTICES 
THE ALBUM HOUR IS COMING. 
Will do typing, experienced. Term papers, manuscripts, etc. Call 233-8512. 
R>r home delivery of the Chicago Tribune, Call Bi II 8659. 
IBM Selectric II typing, student rates, dissertations, Unda's Letters, 289-5193. 
All Orriludsmen, get your yearbook picture taken tonight! Everyone invited. Be at CCE at 7 :00 P.M. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: calculator, checkbook, other items of value in plastic box in back of Stanford. Please call 8739. 
Lost:a blue-striped flannel shirt with a pair of glasses in the pockets, near the ACC, Thursday attemoon, Jan. 14th. Reward. Call 287-0076. 
R>und: black Labradour puppy in Ubrary Call 1646. 
FOR RENT 
Must sublet spacious, one-bedroom Crest'MJOCI Apt. Pried negotiable. 277. 0648. 
R>r rent: large house, 1 acre, 5 min. walk toN. D., 4beds available, 701 St. Vincent, leave name and number at Observer office. 
Available now. Large furnished house suitable for 5 students. $200 per month. All utilities included. Call 289-8262 or 234-2212. 
Rent my upstairs, $50. 233-1329. Patty. 
House for rent, partially furnished, extremely reasonable, 287-7018 or233­2613. 
Country house tor rent very reasonable, twelve minutes travel. 233-2613. 
Rent my upstairs, $50 per month. 233-1329. 
FOR SALE 
R>r Sale: '73 Renault, 4-door, $1700, 3260. 
Couches-$20-$30. Free delivery to dorm Call Mrs. Cooper, 272-3004. 
Your kind of people. Serious high-fidelity sound systems to keep you loose, yet at a price that won't get you uptight. Stereo components, 20-40 percent discount, RMS Audio, 321 S. Main, South Bend, Ind., 288 1681 {l2-6P.M.l 
Henke Ski boots, size 8, good condition, call Ray 1754. 
Pair cleated Remington snows, mounted; Chevy Rally wheels. F-70-14. 289-8063. 
Panasonic SA-6800 X. tour channel receiver with SQ decoder. Call Greg 3361. 
WANTED 
UCLA tickets, Joe or Marty, 287-5113. 
St. Mary's needs a new editor tor the 1977 yearbook. If interested in applying, please send resume to: Dr. Mary Alice Cannon; L.eMans Hall, SMC, by Monday, Jan. 26. 
Need 4th roommate Campus View Apts., 272-6639. Student preferred. 
Wanted 2 UCLA tix and any number Marquette tix. Call John, 8168. 
2 UCLA tix needed, student or GA, Call Joe 3689. 
Need 2 tickets to Maryland, call 1633. 
Need 4 tickets to Maryland game. Call Mike atter 6 P.M. 288-0088. 
Transfer student needs basketball season ticket. Call 1081, ask tor Kent. 
MPLA while South Africa has an estimated 4,000 troops bolstering UNITA, which is supplied with 
U.S. arms. Some 400 Soviet advis­ers are also believed to be 111 Angola assisting the MPLA. 
Desperately need Marquette tickets, call Mike 8720. 
Female housemate wanted to share house 2 blocks from Angela-Notre Dame Ave. intersection. Call 289 4303 between 5 
P.M. and 10 P.M. 
Need 2 UCLA tix, call Frank 1589. 
John desperately needs 3 UCLA tix, student or GA will pay! 3015. 
The Mock Convention is in need of stenographers and typists. Pay is negotiable, according to abilities. Call 8407, 8309, or 8311 . 
Need 5 UCLA tickets!! Call Martha at 5437. 
Desperately need 1 UCLA ticket! Will barter. Call Britty, 287-8826. 
PERSONALS 
B. B., welrome back! The system is inefficient without you. T.C. 
Attention G. Hall: Will exchange our Moose lor your mice. R>rward inquiries to Flanner Grace Warden Room 705. 
I need a Money and Banking book lor the semester. If you've got one you'd like to sell or lend, please call Tom at 234-8952. 

is looking for afew good men and women for:  
reporting (ND&SMC) lay-out  sports features  

columns 
drop by our offices 
(top-floor LaFortune) Tonight thru Thursday between 7&9 PM 
_.,, ••• ~ •• ~~··, .... ~.11~ 
• I I r t -. ~ f : f • ~ • I t -t 1 f ~ , ' -f • 1 f I f I ~ I! P f II -f " f ) I I f • ' 
the observer Tuesday, January2o, 1976 
High school recruiting has ND coaches on the move 
if possible. This is to allow the coach an opportunity to determine
by Fred Herbst The higher academtc require­
ments means that Notre Dame has 
The football season may be over, the quality of the bo_v's attitude and considerably fewer candidates to but the hard work is just beginning to check on the boy's physical size. 
recruit than do schools with lower 
for the Notre Dame coaching staff. At each step, a large number of academic requirements. "It's a This is the time of year that college athletes are removed from consid­handicap, but it's also a benefit,"coaches across the nation begin eration. The top 70 or 75 candi­Kelly said. "Athletes who do well their annual quest for the future dates that remain will then be in class are generally outstanding All-Americans that will assure their asked to visit the campus to performers."
school a successful football pro­familiarize themselves with the Notre Dame's coaches attempt to gram, and Notre Dame is no University. Then, according to follow up on every prospect6 that is 
exception. NCAA rules, a member of the recommended to them. This 
The Irish coaching staff leaves no coaching staff will visit the boy and creates a problem due to the largestone unturned in their search for his family three times. On the third number of athletes that are brought quality football players. "We're in visit, if the athlete wants to attend to their attention. 
contact with virtually every high Notre Dame and if he is one of the The coaching staff is constantlyschool in the country that plays final30 that the University hopes to receiving recommendations fromfootball." said George Kelly, line­recruit, the boy signs a national priests, nuns, alumni and subwaybacker coach, "and we actually letter of intent that commits him to 
alumni across the nation. "Welook at about 2,500 boys a year." Notre Dame. 
appreciate these recommenda­In March or April of an The major porblem faced by tions, but these people aren'tathlete's junior year, Notre Dame Notre Dame in recruiting, is that of always in a position to evaluate asends a questionairre to his high finding athletes that meet the kid," Kelly noted. "Still, in ourschool coach, asking for an evalua­University's academic require­attempts to be polite we end uption of the boy. Upon its return, a ments. "We have the name of spinning our wheels to see a kidfile is made on the boy and it is every good high school football that might be a one-man show in adetermined whether or not the player in the world, unfortunately
• 
small town.''
athlete is academically acceptable. they all can't meet our entrance 
The next step is to view films of the requirements," Kelly said. "The Kelly pointed out that the Irish boy in action, and finally a coach important thing, and I think it's just don't recruit athletes, rather will go to personally observe the why Notre Dame is what it is, is they recruit according to the team's athlete participate in a winter sport that they have to be students." need. He said that this year, the 
team is in particular need of linemen, defensive backs and line­backers. 
He also noted the necessity of projecting players in positions 
other than what they played in high school. Kelly used former Irish linebacker Drew Mahalic as an example. Mahalic was an All-State quarterback in Michigan before he came to Notre Dame. 
*Observer 
At Notre Dame, each coach is responsible for recruiting in a particular area of the country. Consequently there is a great deal of travelling and heine awav from h 
Sports 

Future shock in pro sports? 
::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:::::::::::::by Tom Kruczek :;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::c:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
The reactions to Larso-n's ruling varied from one 
On December 31, the headline of the Chicago extreme of Chicago Bear general manager Jim Finks Tribune's sports section read, Future Shock, and the who said that this would be the "beginning of the entire page was bordered in black. Individual end" of the NFL. On the other end of the continuum headlines read U.S. Judge Sacks Rozelle Rule, while Ed Garvey, the NFL Players Association executive another read Kuhn Fears Bankruptcies, Loss of director felt that there would not be any widespread Baseball Minors. The only headline missing was one movement of players. proclaiming that hell had frozen over. Any statement coming in regard to Larson's ruling 
In a two-week span in late December, professional has to be regarded cautiously, as the football players sports suffered two large blows to its structure. The association is currently bargaining for a new contract first came as Andy Messersmith and Dave McNally and will use the court decision as an advantage over were declared free agents because they had played the owners. the past season without contracts. The decision The entire legal framework of these two cases in rendered by arbitrator Peter Seitz and commissioner addition to other court cases facing the leagues (in the of baseball Bowie Kuhn was upset enough after the NFL case, there are 10 cases pending) has created, to ruling to fire Seitz. say the least, a confusing situation. Notre Dame Law 
Then two weeks later, Judge Earl Larson in U.S. Professor Francis X. Beytagh tried to unravel part of District Court in Minneapolis ruled that the device the confusion. Beytagh teaches antitrust law and is a used by the National Football League to bind players sports enthusiast. to specific teams, commonly known as the Rozelle Beytagh has not read the judge's decision yet, but Rule, was declared to be in violation of antitrust laws. made his comments from what he has read in the 
The Larson and Seitz rulings are significant in that newspapers and from his knowledge of antitrust law. players are no longer bound by a reserve clause to any "From what I can see the NFL has three main one team. Reactions to the two rulings vary, and in a avenues of recourse. First they can appeal Larson's special two part series, the Observer will attempt to ruling at an Appellate Court. Or they can seek relief look at the two rulings and try to discern the effects from Congress by statute exemption. the rulings will have on the two sports. Today, football ''Congress would pe very reluctant to grant such and Judge Larson's decision is examined. carte blanche relief to team sports,'' Beytagh 
Larson's ruling forbade the NFL from enforcing the continued. ''The reason is because it raises several Rozelle Rule, but the judge stayed the ruling and the questions. How do you exempt them, entirely, or just restraining order, pending an appeal from the league the Rozelle Rule or do you include other aspects as which is expected to follow. well? If so, which ones? 
The suit that Larson ruled on was filed by former ''The third avenue open is to try to negotiate a NFL Players Association president John Mackey and settlement of some sort with the players-association.'' 14 other former and present players. The core of the The professor disagreed in part with Garvey's matter is that the NFL or any team can not forbid its statement that there would not be widespread players from attempting to sell their services to the movement of the players. It was Beytagh's contention highest bidder and thus starting what could be called that there would be movement if the rule were to be an open market for talent. completely dropped. But he isn't so sure the reserve 
Under the Rozelle rule, if a player is dissatisfied clause or Rozelle Rule will be dropped. with the team he is playing with, he may become a "I feel that there are people in the players free agent by playing one year beyond his contract. If association who realize that some sort of control of the that player does reach agreement with another team, players movement is needed and that in the course of the team must be compensated for the loss of the negotiations with the owners for a new contract,· the player. Players Association will concede that the Rozelle rule 
Larson said such a system held down salaries, kept is needed, and the owners will concede on other other clubs from bidding for free agents and points to the players," he said. combined with such things as the college draft, Comparisons of the football and baseball situations prohibited players from earning their true market do bear merit on the grounds that both deal with value. players' freedom. The two sports share many of the 
Larson, perhaps feeling the repercussion that were same problems, yet legally the two sports are in sure to follow from the owners, added that "if the diametrically opposed positions. Baseball has been to effects of this decision prove to be too damaging to court before and won, while the prospect for football professional football ... Congress could possible grant is not so bright. special treatment to the National Football League Tomorrow we will examine baseball's "unique" based on its claimed unique status." situation and the court case that preserves it. 

orne involved. K~lly, who is Will George Kelly be glad when responsible for the midwest, said, the season begins and recruiting "In my area, I probably drive 800 ends? You bet he will. "The miles a week visiting different season's the easy part of the job," kids." he sighed. 
ND womens B-ball team bows to IU at Fort Wayne 
by Eileen O'Grady trouble adjusting to the man-to­man defense, accustomed to play­
The Women's Basketball team ing against zone, the ND womenplayed their second game of the 
found many of their passes inter­
season Saturday, losing to Indiana cepted. The center position onlyUniversity at Fort Wayne 58-49. 
scored three points, despite going
Freshman guard Carol Lally was 
through three women in the posi­
the high scorer for Notre Dame, tion. 
scoring 23 points. Judy Shiely Patty Coogan started at center,
added six points. 
but fouled out with three minutes 
Coach Jeanne Earley said the into the second half. Bonita 
women played a "super defensive 
Bradshaw replaced her, but also game." with much more confi­fouled out. Maureen Maloney then 
dence and aggressiveness than in came in as center, after playing
the last game. 
forward, "And did a good jobShe attreibuted the loss to sever­rebounding," according to Earley.
al key factors. "The major problem The team's next game is Satur­
was the number of unnecessary turnovers we lost by traveling and 
day against St. Mary's at 12:30 in fouls," Earley said. "We just 
the main arena of the ACC. Last couldn't get the baskets when we 
year the two teams split, each needed them," she continued. 
winning one game. Both games Indiana began the game playing 
were close, with Notre Dame a man-to-man defense, before beating St. Mary's only by one switching to zone. Notre Dame had 
point. 
SMC tops Purdue-Calumet 
by Mary Janca 
If last Saturday's game is any indication of the type of basketball that St. Mary's will be playing this season, the team is headed for an extremely successful year. Open­ing its second varsity season Satur­day night at Purdue/Calumet, an extension of Purdue University, the SMC team won by 61-36 score. 
Although ''the game started rough" according to coach Monica Doyle, the half-time score stood at 24-9, St. Mary's. High scorers for the St. Mary's team included junior Cathy Maddox, with 14 points, freshman Diane Kluka with 12, and senior co-captain Anne Van de Motter, with 8. 
"Everyone on the team played, and we had a balanced team," commented Van de Motter. "We concentrated on speed and on being a fast team, as well as having a strong defense." 
All eyes, now, however, are turned to next Saturday's game with Notre Dame. 
"It could be anybody's game," said Doyle. "Last year's two games between us were very close, with only one point separating the score. Both teams are looking forward to Saturday's game," she continued. 
The ND-SMC game is slated to begin at 12:30 p.m. in the main arena of the ACC on Saturday, just prior to the UCLA game. 
Doyle commented that the St. Mary's basketball team currently practices in various school gymnas­iums in South Bend, and as a result, does not have a chance to practice in a full gym. 
"We usually practice in half ­
courts or in the Logan gym, which 
is nowhere near regulation size. 
And this hurts us when we play a 
game. But the team adjusted well 
Saturday," she said. 
This coming weekend also marks the beginning of the season for the SMC fencing team, coached by Dick Rosinski, as they meet Cleve­land State, Culver, and Indiana University. Gymnastic competition for St. Mary's gymnasts also opens on Saturday against Valparaiso in 
Valpo. 
ND Sailing Club banquet slated 
The Notre Dame Sailing Club is hosting its annual nominations banquet Saturday night at 7 p.m. The cost of the banquet is $2.50 per person and will be held at the Commodore's apartment. For more information and reservations contact Carole, 8073; Bruce, 234­5512; Lory, 5749; or Meme, 1366. 
Officers will be elected for the upcoming year. Formal or semi­formal attire is requested but not required. Members are allowed to bring one guest, and we ask that you make your reservations before midnight Thursday. Nomination procedures will be discussed at the meeting this Wednesday night at 
6:30 in room 203 of the Engineering Building. Anyone interested in joining the club this semester is welcome to attend this meeting Wednesday evening. 
