
Burtchaell preaches: Respect all life 

widespread abortion. The number
by Joe La Costa ''Forum of Faith.'' Its purpose was 
Staff Reporter of infants dying before birth ex­
to convince others of the value of ceeds the number of those dying atlife. Burtchaell declared that birth.
"absent judges" and other sup­
Rev. James T. Burtchaell last 
porters of abortion should not be 
night asked in his sermon at the Persuasion failure Right to Life mass for a respect for the subject of our anger. He called life of all ages. He addressed the pulpit a place to lecture Burtchaell stated, "Those of us himself to the 700 in attendance on ourselves. He also stated that the who are so concr:rned... have failed the issue of abortion by calling for gospel was to sober and embarass to persuade the majority of our lament over the extermination of us. 
fellow citizens that abortion is 
unborn children. He also com-
homicide." He stated further, Savage instinct ''The concern that we have for the failure of the Jaw to protect them
mented on the controversial tssue 
(the fetus) is a relatively minor
of birth control by stating "Our 
Burthcaell cited abominable pri­matter." He suggested that on the
church, because of disagreements 
son conditions as an example of a third anniversary of the Supreme
of various sorts over the legitimacy 
savage instinct apparent today. In Court decision we "draw those who 
of birth control, has very unfortu­
addition, he berated the United are sincerely compassionate to the
nately chosen to ignore the seri­
States for its unlimited sale of cause of the helpless, weak and
ousness of poverty in large house­
arms. He cited the Cyprus incident exploited.''
holds." He concluded "that our 
as an example of our encourage­
claim to protect the littlest of 
ment of this savage instinct. He 
Another observation was that chided the countries whose leaders 
''There is nothing peculiarly Catho­
children is weak unless we do our rely on force and violence for rule. lic about this cause." part to prevent the careless, Our country's assistance of such thoughtless and loveless creation of institutions distressed Burtchaell. 
The mass was held in Sacredchildren." 
Heart Church last night at eight WASHINGTON CAP> -Con­would ban foreign ships from Burtchaell claimed that South o'clock. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce gress resumes its disputes with fishing within 200 miles of the Burtchaell labeled the mass a America is the area of most was the main celebrant. President Ford this week over U.S. coast. 
U.S. covert aid to Angola and House Speaker Carl Albert 
also on federal spending. has predicted representatives The House plans to vote will approve the same Angolan­
SMC activity center planned
Tuesday on a Senate-approved aid cut-off that passed the Sen­
by Margie Irr
ate by a 54-22 vote over Ford
ban on the Angola aid, two The necessity of a new athletic
Staff Reporter
days before a Senate Foreign administration objections on facility was cited by the Committee
A multi-purpose activity center
Relations subcommittee opens Dec. 19. on Physical Requirements as a part
to accommodate physical educa­
public hearings on U.S. policy 
of In
The Senate vote came after tion, recreation and sports pro­the Planning Process. 
in Angola by taking testimony 
disclosures that the CIA had grams at St. Mary's College is in February, 1974, the Board of from Secretary of State Henry Regents approved the concept of afunneled $30 million in U.S. the planning stages. Stevie Wer­A. Kissinger. 
funds to two anti-Soviet factions nig, assistant to the vice president new facility. The House also will make an fighting in the Angolan civil for student affairs, emphasized the Wernig commented that al­effort Tuesday to override an­war. 
need for a center large and though sudden interest and expan­other of the 44 vetoes of the Despite disclaimers from the versatile enough to accommodate sion in sports programs contitute Ford presidency. Chances are Ford administration, members various activities simultaneously. an immediate need for the center,
rated good that the House, and "Our sports schedules overlap.
of Congress are expressing St. Mary's is not becoming a 
later the Senate, will repass 
fears that secret U.S. aid to An­We need an area so that all sports-oriented college. "We over Ford's veto a $45-billion gola could become the first step physical education classes, intra­won't go to athletic scholarships,"appropriation bill for the de­in an escalation such as oc­mural and intercollegiate sports she said. "We encourage deve­
partments of Labor and Health, can practice," said Wernig.
curred in Indochina in the early lopment of the whole person.
Education and Welfare. 
1960s. According to Wernig, tentative Although we've always been lack­Ford vetoed the bill on floor plans drawn last year were ing in the sports area, we can now
Others have said that any
grounds it is $1 billion over his "not flexible enough." She ex­provide avenues to develop in all
confrontation between U.S. and
budget for the 15 months end­plained that the gymnasiums would areas," Wernig concluded.
Soviet interests in Angola could
ing next Sept. 30. accommodate only one sport at a 
damage the slowly emerging 
time. "We field nine intercolle­
Seven of the 44 Ford vetoes 
relaxation of tensions between
have been overriden by Con­giate teams. All except swimming
the two superpowers.
gress. could make use of the facility. A multi-purpose center can accom­
In the Senate, a vote will The Ford administration has 
modate two or three different
come Tuesday on the nomi­urged withdrawal of all non-An­
nation of George Bush to head golan forces but has indicated classes or activities at the same time," Wernig said.
the Central Intelligence Agen­the United States cannot stand cy. idly by while the Soviets seek 
Also included in the center wi1J to extend their influence be ra~quet ball courts, locker 
Senators will vote Wednesday through the developing sub­rooms, flexible seating for 1,500­House-passed that
on a bill Saharan nations. 2,000, classrooms and offices. 
Fat Wally's raid 
Students relate arrest experience 
by Cathy Nolan The first indication of a raid was a weapon. The police also confisca­Staff Reporter song dedication relayed over the ted their wallets and said they loudspeaker to the "Men in Blue." would be returned to them after 
What happens to the student The vice squad, which included bond was posted. who is arrested for violation of the at least three plainclothes officers, When the students arrived at the state drinking laws? Six Notre did not ask to see the identifica­station, they were placed in indivi­Dame and St. Mary's students tions of everyone at Fat Wally's. dual monitored cells. The Sample found out first-hand when they "I was sitting at a booth when one Street jail does not have facilities were arrested for underage drink­of the officers approached me, for women, so they were placed in ing, Friday, Jan. 23, in a raid asking to see some sort of I.D. a visitor's lounge. conducted at Fat Wally's. Rather than try to pass off a fake "The police questioned each one 
''Once you have been busted, card, I showed him my schooii.D. of us individually," one student you just have to accept the conse­He informed me that I would have said. "They filmed and recorded quences,'' stated one of the six to be taken down to the station. He the entire questioning period, to students. "I knew it would be did not state what the exact use as evidence in court, if useless for me to become hysterical charges against me were," said necessary. The-officers read me ot to panic. I realized that sooner one student. my rights and told me I would be or later someone would post bond The six students were taken in allowed one call. I talked to my 
and I would be released." the police paddy wagon to the roommate who said that someone 
The raid occured around mid­station located on Sample Street. was already on their way to post night. It was conducted by seven The male students were frisked by bond. I knew that it would just be a South Bend vice squad members. the police before entering the matter of time before I was According to several students pre­wagon. According to one of the released\" sent at the bar, no announcement students, they were asked to The police took three sets of of a raid was made prior to the remove belts, shoelaces, jewelry or fingerprints and several mug shots. arrival ofthe police. "We were not any other article on their body The fingerprints will be sent to the aware that the police had arrived. which sould be considered as a 
---News Briefs 
l=========lnte·rnational 
Cubans fight in Angola 
LUSAKA, Zambia--Cuban troops with the Soviet-backed Popular Front MPLA in Angola's civil war are playing an ever greater part in the command and fighting, a report from the embattled west African country said yesterday. 
Another report quoted National Union UNITA leader Jonas Savimbi saying his pro-Western faction is preparing fallback positions as part of a west-east defense line across the middle of Angola. This would be to block the MPLA's southward drive toward the trans-Angola highway. 
Cease-fire relaxing 
BEIRUT, Lebanon--Thousands off Lebanese poured into Beirut's warm, sunny streets in a relaxed mood yesterday after months of civil war, and the blare of car horns replaced the sound of gunfire as traffic piled up along seaside boulevards. 
Premier Rashid Karami announced that under the Syrian-spon­sored cease-fire the warring sides had agreed to reopen all roads by Sunday evening and to withdraw all their barricades and gunmen from the capital's streets by Tuesday. 
National 
Desegregation begins 
DETROIT--Some 15,000 black and white elementary pupils are scheduled to be bused away from their neighborhood schools today as public school integratiop begins in the nation's largest city that is operating under a federal court desegregation order. 
The city's two antibusing organizations have called for an indefinite class boycott but have also urged parents and students to protest the desegregation order in a peaceful manner. 
CIA Operation disclosed 
WASIDNGTON--The Central Intelligence Agency collected infor­mation about political dissidents at Utah State University, Brown University and Boston University in 1970 and 1971, according to newly released documents from the CIA's Operation Chaos. 
The 141 pages of CIA files, the first Operation Chaos documents to be made public, also showed that the agency followed the movements of American political dissenters traveling abroad and kept track of foreign visitors to U.S. dissident groups. 
Quinlan case to be heard 
TRENTON, N.J.--The New Jersey Supreme Court will hear arguments today on whether Karen Anne Quinlan has the right "to die with dignity.'' 
Joseph and Julia Quinlan are seeking court permission to shut off the respirator that sustains their daughter at St. Clare's Hospital in Denville. Miss Quinlan, 21, has been in a coma since Apri115. 
.,._..._On Campus Today 
11 :30 a.m ---rmd< convention opening, Iafortune. 
12-1 p.m fiiCIIHy, staff and student skating, i(E rink, ~ 
1-3 p.m an exhibit from the hisby of. the notre dame ard1itedure departnart, Including wnent senior 1hesls projects. 
7 p.m chess dub meeting, rrn 227 rrath and <DI'T"pUtlng cenier. 
7 p.m meeting, Clll those Interested In v.a1< with elderly, haggcr hall aud. 
7-9:30 p.m nardi gras dealer school, s1epa1 Cl!l'lfer. 
7:30 p.m tax assistanc2 PI'Q9ram. rm 101, I~ building. 
( The Observer ) 
Night Editor: Val Zurblls 
Assistant Night Editor: Jim Stevens 
Layuut: Bill Holfslllder, Jim Com 
ITT)ITI, Jeff Norkus 
Copy Reader: Don Relrrer 
Qly Editors: ~. ·Rynn, Com 
ITT)ITI 
Editorials: Pat Hanifin 
Spor1s: Bill Brink Typis1S: H.U.D., ~.C., M.A.K.l Night Contlvller: David ~t J 
Volunteers needed to help elderly 
There will be a meeting for all those students interested in work­ing with the elderly on a volunteer basis tonight at 7 p.m. in the auditorium of Haggar Hall. Back~ ground information about the vol­unteer opportunities will be pro­vided.. 
ERRATUM 
Friday's Observer article on Mock Democratic Convention correctly identified Vincent ella, Convention as being from Grosse p,.;nt,.w,-v...l 
Michigan. Moschella Staten Island, New York. 
Richard Littlefield, Committee Chairperson, who not mentioned in the article, from Grosse Pointe !Woods, Michi­gan. 
Both students ernment majors. 
The Observer is published Monday lhrough Friday and weekly during the summer session. e•cept during e~ams and vacation periods. The Observer os pubI ished by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. 
Subscriptions may be purchased lor 10 dollars per semester ( 18 dollars per year l from The Ob server. Bo~ Q, Notre Dame. In diana. 46556. Second Class postage paid. Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
Blood drive scheduled 
by BID Stejskal Staff Reporter 
After a successful effort last semester, the St. Joseph County Red Cross, working through stu­dent coordinators from N.D., is planning to hold another campus blood drive. The drive will run from Jan.27 through April 29, with thirty-four days scheduled for the halls to donate blood. 
The drive will be conducted in the same manner that was initiated last semester. Student represent­atives will canvas the members of their halls, drumming up volunteers and arranging the donor schedules. 
On the assigned days, a Red Cross Blood Services team will be set up in the campus infirmary to handle the student donors. 
Since the donating of blood was made entirely voluntary two years ago, when a donor previously could 

coordinator of the campus blood get up to ten dollars for a pint, drives for this year was pleasedstudent involvement in drives such with the students' willingness to as this one has been literally participate in last semester's drive,
a life-or-death proposition for people 
and is looking for even more donors requiring a supply of whole blood. 
this time around. When asked how Though donors are no longer paid, students should prepare for givingthey do receive the benefit of free 
blood, Clarke stressed the fol­blood for themselves and their lowing: families anywhere in the U.S. if the need arises. Normally, a unit of -Eat a good meal before you give. blood can cost as much as sixty-five dollars. -Do not drink any alchohol within twenty-four hours before-hand 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's students have become a vitally -Do not_donate if you are illneeded source of blood for St. Joseph County since they began -Do not be nervous about the pain; giving blood on a large, well-organ­it hurts less than a shot. 
ized scale last year. In recognition of this, the ND-SMC community Clarke encourages students to be was presented with an award by . 
attentive to when their hall is duethe American Red Cross for their to give, and to be generous whengenerosity in donating blood. 
their representatvie asks them to Senior Dave Clarke, a chief take part in the drive. 
KEN'S DEN 
--HAIR STYLING -­MEN & WOMEN 
ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER (LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA) PHONE 255-6500 
AP 

~ eagleJ:N\,~oritt''. 
100 CENTER COMPLEX 
any regular priced item with this ad 

A& 

•.......~ ................41~·-..••••••••••••••••••···: 
THE STONE 
BUFFALO 
CLOSE-OUT SALE ON ALL POTTERY 
SHOP 
THE 
100 
CENTER 
NOW OFFERING 10 S 15% : 
* 
DISCOUNTS ON : 
CASES OF WINE/LIQUOR. *
*
*
* 
HOURS: 
* 
MON-SAT 
9:30 -MIDNIGHT 
STORAGE TROPICAL GENERAL IOUTIQUE, GAMES I AMUSEMENTS, FESTIVE DECORATIVE. l'liiSONAL ITEMS NOVELTIES. DECORATIVE P'IUOWS, WOODENWARE I IOXES •· t't'E INCENSE IURNEIIS, CANDLES I CANDlE HOLDERS. W~"~a_1e'fl8 .. CISSORIES. IIDSPHAD$ I SOFT GOODS, VASF~ 'I 9 DECORATIVE METALWAH, FIGURINES I ~T· ti.O((\((\ \'l" NATURAL MATERIALS, DECORATIVf '\: o\' ~q \\)\\~ o~ECOR, WHITE P'OICELAIN, DINNEJIW• ·.\\ \"e \O • . ~ERAMIC SEIIVICE ITEMS. GLAS• • ..,\ef t c...,\ LIRINK SEIIVICE
4 
GLASSWARE. • ~ te•• • ~¥; SERVICE, PI.ACEMATS TOP A \VV_..-11, "'0\\• ..cl'l UTELSILS. P'OTS I PANS, non-nnt'• HOUSEkEEP'ING I ~<"I'UES, ACCESSOIIIU, GAIIDEN . 
r 
L_______________________________________________________________________________________ -­
• • • ~ ~ ~ , • ; • ,. • • , • f • 
--------., 
Monday, January 26, 1976 
the observer 
3 
Mock convention '76 gets underway 
The 1976 Mock Political Conven­tion Campaigns for the office of President get under way today January 26 at 11 :30 a.m. with the opening of Campaign Central in the main floor of the LaFortune Stu­dent Center. 
The purpose of Campaign Cen­tral is to offer the ND-SMC community in general and the convention delegates in particular the opportunity to find out more about the Presidential candidates. The focal point of the campus campaign will be the issues. All student representatives have re­ceived campaign literature political issue fact sheets from their respect­ive national headquarters and their items will be available for study by the general public. 
On February 2, ''Candidates at a Glance" will begin its display. This display consists of a large chart presenting each candidate and his stand on 12 major issues. This format will allow one to quickly compare and contrast the candidates and will serve as a catalyst for thought which will hopefully move interested people to further involvement and support of one particular candidate. A quick look at campus campaigns finds us with: 
Senator Birch Bayh--Recently, Bayh has brought himself into serious contention by winning labor support in New England and liberal support in New York. The Indiana Senator, known most for his fight against the Carswell and Hayns­worth Supreme Court nominations by Richard Nixon and as the principal participant in drafting the 25th and 26th amendments. Re­cently he finished second in the Iowa caucus. Presenting Senator Bayh's stand on the issues to the campus is Wendell Walsh. a junior government major from South Bend. He and his campaign team welcome the questions, support, and help of all interested; the phone number is 234-0741. 
Senator Lloyd Bentsen·-The 
Texas Senator seems to be content 
with occupying the middle ground 
on the ideological continuum for 
this year's race. His strategy is to 
be the compromise candidate after 
the front runners fade. He has 
shown great concern for domestic 
affairs, introducing a bill to 
encourage investment and opting 
for a gasoline tax to conserve 
energy. The Notre Dame Bentsen 
for '76 Committee is forming 
around the efforts of Mark Till, 
Tom Adolph and Pascal Piazza. 
These gentlemen from Houston, 
Texas, are eager to get underway 
with the proceedings and welcome 
questions and assistance from all 
interested parties. Contact 283­
1052. 
Jimmy Carter--In this year's crowded field of candidates, former Georgia governor Jimmy Carter is the only one who will run in all 31 primaries. His efficient campaign organization and tireless youth corps have produced two early victories: a straw ballot victory in Florida and a first place finish in · government major from Wellsboro, the Iowa delegate caucus, which he Penn. The number to call to join carried with 28 percent of the vote. the team is 288-0088. He presents himself as the New Sargent Shriver--With past en­South--the moderate alternative to deavors such as chairing the War Wallace. He points to vast cutting on Poverty for the Johnson Admi­and reduction of the Georgia nistration and forming the Peace bureaucratic structure while he was Corps in 1961, Sargent Shriver may governor and desires similar revi­have the most readily recognizable sion at the federal level. Co-Chair­name of any of the declared ing the Carter campaign are Martin candidates. He calls for preserving Spodola, a junior major from the military balance in the Middle Denville, New Jersey, and Carol East and looks for a working, Simmons, 11 junior government progressive policy of detente with 
major from Daytona Beach, Flori­the Russians. He sees a public da. For more information, call service program as the answer to 283-3352. unemployment, combined with in­
Fred Harris--The former Senator vestment incentives and an expan­from Oklahoma is noted for his sionary monetary policy. The ability as a speaker and for his Shriver for President campaign on staunch supporters. He is consi­campus is chaired by Joe Ander­
dered a Populist candidate who son, a sophomore accounting major looks to get the rich off welfare and from Bristol, Connecticut. The who considers a job, "a personal, team is willing to entertain ques­
enforceable right." He has called tions concerning and enlisting sup­for the outright abolition of the CIA port of the Shriver campaign. Call and believes government's foreign 283-1069. relations should be controlled by Morris Udall -·The Arizona Con­the people and not by and for the gressman has the backing of a 
benefit of, "big, multinational number of liberal colleagues in the 
corporations." While in the Harris House and in hoping to score 
camp, "the basic issue in '76 is impressively in the early primaries 
privileges!", the basic concern of sees Wallace and Jackson as his 
the ND Harris committee is the strongest opposition down the 
issues. The team under the stretch. He ha~ proposed higher 
direction of Tom Clements, a taxes on big corporations and 
junior majoring in pre-professional favors government control of oil 
studies from St. Paul, Minnesota, exports as opposed to letting it stay 
is eager to discuss them. If with the private companies. He is 
interested in further involvement opposed to busing and favors gun 
with the Harris campaign, call control and was given a 100 percent 
283-6898. rating by the AFL-CIO and the 
National Farmer's Union. Direct­
ing the Udall in '76 Notre Dame 
Senator Henry "Scoop" Jack­campaign is Scott Brinkman, a son --One of the few repeaters from junior government major from the 1972 campaign, Jackson has Minster, Ohio. one of the best financed campaigns George Wallace --No other can­and the best organized effort of any didate elicits as strong an emotion­
of the candidates. He shares the al response either in favor or in 
conservative right with Wallace opposition as does Governor and hopes to move Wallace out George Wallace of Alabama. He is while the more liberal contenders a major contender in every race he fight each other out of contention. enters and is a formidable foe to The Senator from Washington state Carter in Flordia, Bentsen in 
has warned of the dangers of Texas, and Bayh in Indiana. His detente with the Soviets and is also stand on school busing as a means in favor of drastic limitations on of school desegregation is highly court-ordered busing as a means of. conservative, opting against it on school desegregation. Heading the the grounds of interference by the newly-formed Jackson for Presi­Federal government. He recently dent campaign at ND is Steve lashed out against attempts by the 
Reynolds, a senior finance major 
from Destin, Florida. As the Tax Assistance 
campaign organizes, the Jackson 
people hope to be a major force in 
training tonight 
the proceedings. Anyone desiring 
more information should call 287-Training sessions for the Tax 8805. Assistance Program begin tonight at 7:30 in Room 101 of the Law 
Milton Shapp --Governor Shapp 
Building. Other sessions are beinglooks forward to the oncoming 
offered Tuesday, February 3, campaign claiming he can bring 
Thursday, February 12, and Wed­"managerial skill and common 
nesday, February 18. Volunteers 
sense" to the White House. He 
for the program need only attend claims he has broken the race open 
one of the four meetings.
and cites his second place finish in 
the Florida straw poll as evidence. 
He shares the liberal wing of the 
party with Udall, Harris and others 
and looks for success from limited 
effort in Massachusetts and Flori­
da. Working for the Pennsylvania 
Governor is Tom Walrath, a junior 


BRINGS BACK THE "SUPERSPECIAL" WEEK STUDY HELP PROGRAM 
NEIGHBORHOOD 
MONDAY-THURSDAY: 14 Oz. Drafts .
TUTORING! 
Mixed Drinks . 
(GRADES 2-6, 2 HOURS/WEEK) 
Bottle Beer . at the 

THURSDAY "HAPPY HOUR" 5-11 P.M
ORGANIZATIONAL 
7&7's Only 25c!
MEETINGS 
AND THIS TUESDAY,(THAT'S TOMORROW!)
MONDAY & TUESDAY (JAN. 26-27) 
THE LIBRARY BRINGS BACK: 
7 p.m. 
La Fortune Ballroom 
---· 
SIGN UP FOR 
Federal government to force Ala­bama to reform her prisons, ex­claiming, "Now the government expects a country club atmosphere within our penal system." Pre­senting himself as the candidate of the working man, Wallace says, ''This is my last campaign. If the voters don't want me this time, I'm not giving them another chance." "Send(ing) them a Message!" at ND is Doug Kenyon, a senior government major from Ft. Laud· erdale, Florida. If you would like to know more or get involved call 272-3016. 
Anyone interested in forming a Campaign on campus for Senator Robert Byrd of West Virginia should contact Harry Capadano at 287-8805 for information and sources. 
There are two prominent Demo­crats who have created political stirrings among important party officials and may be strong forces in the Democratic nomination. 
Interest in Hubert Humphrey and Ted Kennedy is so great that each has campaign teams attempting to draft them onto the ballot at the Mock Convention. 
Ted Kennedy --Senator Kennedy, the powerful Massachusetts sena­tor plans to sit out the '76 election year, citing personal commitments and the wishes of his family as the main reasons. But, he has enough supporters with enough political power to draft him onto the ballot. The Kennedy name and obvious leadership connotations satisfy the voting public's desire for a readily recognizable name and true leadership capabilities. His 
youthful image appeals  to  many  
young  voters  and  his  repeated  
attempts  to  ins·£itute  a  National  

Health Insurance Program give him wide-range appeal and the solid foundation necessary for a National Convention draft. Form­ing the Draft Kennedy campaign 
Cc:untinued on page 6) 

Mon: Chopped Steak Dinner Tues: Ribeye Steak Dinner Wed: Ham Steak Dinner Thur: Chopped or Ribeye Steak Fri: Fish Dinner 
Includes Angus Potato, Salad and Toast 
IS YOUR CAR INSURANCE 
TOO HIGH??? TRY OURS 
Gerry Conway 
First Equity Insurance 
256-0263 or 277-1964 
*SPECIALS* $1.49 
OPEN 
11 to 9 P.M 
EVERYDA 
1516 N. 
IRONWOOD 
289-0755 
ND 
MC 
All Sects $2.50 (Std-Fa: $2.00) Hme: 284-4176 
'DIE SAN QUENDN DRAMA WORKSHOP Frodudimof 
ENDGAME 
by Sarruel BedB1 
JANUARYao, 1976 a s:oo P.M. O'IAl.OIUNAl.DIOIIUM (ONE Hmt>RMAN::EONIA') 
irish bull!!!!!!!!~~~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!! 
*1~JQ~€2rver
Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­mentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, cartoons and regular columns express the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Editorials: 283-1715 News: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Business Manager Tom Modglin Advertising Manager Tom Whelan 
EDITORIAL BOARD Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief AI Rutherford Managing Editor Jim Eder Executive Editor Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor Bob Mader News Editor Maureen Rynn Ca~us Editor Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor Ken Bradford Copy Editor Val Zurbiis Wire Editor Tom O'Neil Features Editor Bill Brink Sports Editor Dan Sanchez Senior Night Editor 
Monday, January 26, 1976 
P. 0. Box Q 
Man of Integrity 
Dear Sir: 
This letter is prompted by The Observer article pertaining to Professor Charles Rice of the Law School and comments reported concerning his recent Torts exam­ination. 
I do not speak as a 'defender' of Professor Rice. He is more than capable of defending himself, if such be necessary. I speak because I believe an unjustice is being done to someone I know very well and admire even more. 
One of the premier law teachers in this country, Professor Rice is a man of exceptional ability and uncommon courage. Moreover, he has an abundance of something that is always in short supply--inte­grity. He is, most assuredly, not "a reed swaying in the wind." 
It is reported that there were some twenty failures on the Torts examination. What is the teacher to do when confronted by a performance that does not meet his standards? Pretend that it does? In a school dedicated to the pursuit of justice that would be the worst kind of mockery. 
I have been informed of collect­ive efforts, including among other things a direct appeal to the President of the University, to force a change in the grades. One may be certain that Professor Rice will not be intimidated by these or any other improper pressures. He is professionally responsible. Such efforts would be better directed toward seeking his counsel and advice as to how the deficiencies mi~ht be corrected_. 
Edward J. Murphy Thomas J. White Professor of Law 
One of the Best 
Dear Editor: 
First of all I would like to state that 1 know of no fairer or more ethical a man than Dr. Rice. If there is one professor in the law school that would be most willing to listen to your problems or to help you out, it would be Dr. Rice. 
I have had Dr. Rice for three courses. He is a demanding instructor, but there is a reason for this. He realizes that in order for a law student to become a lawyer he must pass a very difficult bar exam. Unless a student applies himself diligently Ito his courses in law school, he won't pass the bar. 
Dr, Rice's tests have always been very difficult, but never unfair. I always had the feeling that if heally worked in Dr. Rice's courses, I would do okay. 
Dr, Rice is a teacher both in and out of the classroom. His impec­cable personal life is a good example that I'm sure has inspired many a future lawyer's life ­including my own. He is one of the few professors who treats the students as equals and is willing to sacrifice a great deal of his own spare time to help the students. 
I just wanted it known that not all of the students in the law school share the views of those who were interviewed in Wednesday's paper -some of us think that Dr. Rice is the best professor in the whole law school. 
Bob Mohan 
Reflects On Prof 
Dear Editor: 
In the article "Law Professor Counters Charges" in the January 22 edition of The . Observer. there was made the implications that those who received poor grades in Torts could not adapt to the heavy workload in law school. 
I, as a student who received a "D" in Tort, strongly disagree with that implication. I can handle the work load and my grades give evidence of that. I will not be bothered with the grade of D in tort. When my other grades are compared with the D grade and in the light of the fact that there were 52 (!) D's and F's, the D will be seen for what it is. It will not 
DOONESBURY 
BIJJNPI~ t/)()K-&VEN 
If I WANT&!) 71J RUN FOR. C1JN61?ESS, fT'P 8e A UIAST& OF TIMe/ VCN!l/RA 15 AN etfiHT-T&I<M tu!NNSR .' 
reflect on my ability to do law 
school work but on the teacher and 
his test. 
Vincent Ochva 
Don't Count St. Mary's 
Dear Editor: 
Your article "Admission Policy Reviewed" was good because the question of the quota for women was brought up. I've been wonder­ing for years how many women will finally be established at N.D. 
There was a particularly interest­ing point though. Sister Miriam Jones stated that "a student body composed of 40 percent women ... ( as in most co-ed universities) would mean we would have 3,000 women. .. should we balance the number of women with that of St. Mary's?" 
I hate to sound unconcerned, but what does the number of women at St. Mary's have to do with the number of women admit­ted to N.D.? I should think the admission of an individual to N.D. should be totally independent of the number of persons attending another institution! 
If other institutions manage to get along with a 60-40 ratio, N.D. should be able to do so also. 
Sister Jones and Admissions Committee: Please don't set a quota dependent upon the number of women at St. Mary's. 
Bob Tracey 
by Garry Trudeau 
I KNOW AU ABO(JT MR. V8NTIJRA-FROM tuHAT I'V& 
H&ARI?, 7HI3 MAN 15 7HI3 PffS­
!NC1JMP&TENT, 1Ns&N51Tifll3, 
RACIST, ANI? SCNSAT/ONA/..1-Y 
When I Was 
A Kid • • • 
paul starkey 
Casey came into the room and threw his books down on his desk. "Whew! I just got back from town. Those Right-to-Life people .... " He looked up and saw Obie lying on the top bunk with his long legs propped against the ceiling and his hands resting curiously on his stomach. With his undershirt pulled up half-way, Obie was making a bridge over his navel with his index fingers. He seemed oblivious to Casey's presence. 
"Those people," Casey went on, "they're out there with their placards and armbands. Pro-Life ... ,"Casey humpffed. "I couldn't believe this one sign. It was red, white, and blue, with a Revolutionary soldier and a big 1776, and said:'Protect our Unborn Patriots'. Patriots! Fetuses aren't even people! 
Obie gave no response, but continued to concentrate on the bridge over his navel. Casey came over and looked at Obie's bridge. 
"What's up, Obe?" 
"Oh, I was just thinking." 
"I guess!" Casey laughed. "What about?" 
"About when I was a kid .... " 
"Yeah? How old?" 
"Oh, about two or three." 
"Hey, you can remember back that far? TWO years old?" 
"Months." 
"Huh!" Casey sniffed and took a quick look around the room. "Man, are you high?" 
"I'm serious!" Obie said. 
"So am I!" 
"Case', you know I don't do that .... " 
"Well, then, what are you talking about.. two months! Nobody can remember that soon after being born." "I mean before I was born, Casey. I mean two months in the womb!" "Give me a break!" Casey roared. "Hardly a week into the semester and you've flipped out already. Be real!" Obie sat up slowly, calmly. His face grew very sober. "Case'," O'Brien raised one eyebrow,"want to hear about it?" "Get out of here." Then Casey smiled. "Sure," he mocked, "tell me all about your intra-womb experience!" 
"What do you want to know?" 
"What the hell do you mean, what do I want to know? How should I know what I want to know? I've never been inside a womb before ... " Casey felt stupid. "I mean, that I can remember." 
"Well," O'Brien said, "I can. Every detail. It was super!" 
"Like heaven," Casey was sarcastic. 
"Almost"O'Brien continued, "Nice and warm. Really comfort­able. A little dark,though. Couldn't read at all." "Read!" "Well, it was either read or sleep. After all, no one was around to talk to .... " 
"And you couldn't ... read?" 
"Not for a while. My baby blues weren't developed until the third month .. and even then they weren't open." "That's too bad." "Yeah,but after being an English major for three semesters, 
really don't think I missed all that; much." 
Casey unwrapped a Mars Bar and munched slowly, obviously 
now interested. "Hey, Obe," he made smacking sounds, "how 
about your stomach? When did you get that?" 
"I guess around the eighth week .. I woke up one morning and 
had this overpowering urge for a cheeseburger. About the same 
time, all of my organs started popping up." 
"Even your ... uh ...." 
"Yeah, that was all taken care of, Case'. But, boy, was I scared 
for a while! Right after I was conceived, I had to sit around for a 
whole week waiting to find out whether I'd be a boy or a girl! Talk 
about anxiety! Just think! If things had been different we would 
have broken parietals last night!" Obie puckered his lips. 
"O'Brien, you've a warped mind!" 
"You love it! And that reminds me. Guess what comes first, 
brain waves or the heart beat?" 
"Heartbeat, obviously." 
"You remember!" 
"No, I read it somewhere," Casey reported. "The heart starts 
pumping around the eighteenth day. A little over three weeks later, 
the brain waves begin to register." 
"Right you are! I got my first brain waves at 6:30 P.M. on the forty-third day." "6:30?" Casey was incredulous. "Eastern Standard Time." "Well,"Casey pressed, "what did you think?" "About what?" "I mean, what was you very first thought?" "My first thought? Let's see. Oh, yes. Where the hell am I?" "Profound." "Well, what would you say if you suddenly found yourself in 
some stranger's womb?" 
"I never really thought about it," Casey admitted. Then he added, "Hey, Obe. I just thought ofsomething really heavy. When did you get your soul?" 
O'Brien closed his eyes and said nothing for a long while. At last, he turned to Casey and smiled, "You know ,Case', I can't remember ever being without it!" 
Neither said a word, but sat quietly until Casey cleared his throat. 
"Obie," Casey said softly,"l'm glad you made it." 
"Me, too, Case'." 

,--­
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 
t : 
!t Special Offer,$10.00 Value: l t 
I Free HP-21 Applications BookI with the purchase of any HP-2LOffer expires March 15,1976. t t See your dealer for details.
t 
t 
Offer void where prohibited by law regulation, or otherwise. Available only with the purchase of a new HP-21 before March 15, 1976. 
t 
t The second generation is here.
t t t 
t 
One of our second generation calculators can save yout 
countl~ss hours am! errors en route to your diploma and on the job thereafter. Each offers problem-solving tech­
t 
nology you probably won't lind on competitive calculators. 
t t 
t t
t Newlow price.
HP-21 Scientific, 
t 
t
$100.00:
t 
t 
The HP-21 makes short work of the technical calcula­
t 
tions even so-called "non-technical" courses require today.
t It performs most arithmetic, log and trig calculations auto­
t 
matically. It's also the only calculator at its price that offers 
full display formatting: you can choose between Hxcdt decimal and scientilk notation. t If you need a calculator that does more than simple arithmetic, this is it-especially at its new low price.
t 
t 
New.
t 
t HP-22 Business Management, t $165.oo: 
t 
t The HP-22 takes the starch out of the calculations you face in business courses today, in management tomorrow. You can solve most time-value-of-money problems in sec­t onds. You can breeze through business math calculations 
t
(logs, roots, %s, etc.). And, most important, you can usc
t 
the HP-22's statistical functions to build existing data into tt more reliable forecasts. No other pocket calculator at any 
t
price offers you a comparable combination of financial,
t 
math and stat capabilities. t t
t 
t t New. t t t HP-25 Scientific Programmable, 
t
t $195.00~' 
t
t Our HP-25 docs everything our IIP-'21 can do-and much, much more. It's programmable, which means it can t
t 
solve automatically the countless repetitive problems every tt science and engineering student faces. With an HP-25, you 
t
enter the keystrokes necessary to solve a repetitive problem
t 
only once. Thereafter, you just enter the variables and tt press the Run/Stop key for an almost instant answer dis­
t 
played to 10 digits. You gain time, precision, flexibility. 
t 
t 
All three offer you HP's efficient RPN logic system thatt cuts keystrokes and scratch pads. All three are easy to use (e.g., the HP-25 requires no prior programming experience). 
And all three are almost certainly on display at yourt bookstore.** 
t t t t 

Sales and service from 172 offices in 65 countries.t Dept. 658E, 19310 Prunericlge Avenue, Cupertino, CA 95014 
t 
t "5Ut:C~ested retail price, excludin~ applicable state and local taxe~-Conlinental U.S., Alt~skill & Hawaii. 
t 
"If not, call 800-538-7922 (in C.lif. 800-662-9862) for the name of a dealer near you. 616/0l 
t 
t t t 
t t 
t .. '· • 
~~~~~~~~~.._..._.~~~~~~~~~~...~~~~~~~ ..... ~~~~~~~~~~~ .........~~ 
I 

NewPh.D's finding jobs harder to get 
by Mary Rathburn ments. At a recent meeting of the 
Staff Reporter Association of Graduate Schools, 
'Can a new Ph.D. get a job? deans of 51 major research univers­
A young woman with a PhD. ities rejected the idea of imposing hopes for a college or university job quotas. Instead they favored while she waits on tables. A recent "informed free choice" for the history Ph.D. with a wife and two prospective graduate student. 
children earns a frugal living "Students seeking a doctorate in teaching in a Catholic grade school. preparation for a career in research More and more young Ph.D.'s are and teaching should understand 
offered one-year academic appoint­that competition for academic posi­ments. Should they uproot families tions will be fierce," their report with such a limited prospect for job states. The deans concluded that 
security? Two new Ph.D's from more graduate students will have to Notre Dame, unable to find univer­get non-academic jobs sity jobs in the U.S., became Interviews with graduate stu­
professors in Iran last September. dents at Notre Dame indicate that 
They are returning this year, they would choose academic jobs if disenchanted with poor living con­they were available. Marilyn ditions, lack of text books, lang­Lawson, a graduate student in 
uage barriers, and a multitide of physics, would like to do college other problems. Their common research and teaching. She says problem: a dearth of academic that post-doctoral work is relatively jobs. 
easy to get but that full-time faculty 
Graduate schools have tradition­positions are at a premium. 
ally prepared their students for "Although Notre Dame has a research and teaching jobs at quality Ph.D. proe:ram, most grad­colleges and univesities. Now the uates go into industry , "Lawson job situation is so critical~at so.me says. She notes that the physics 
administrators talk of imposmg department discourages people 
quotas on graduate school enroll-from theoretical physics because 
Mock convention 
Crontinued from page 3) Humphrey is enjoying his position on campus is Joe Cosgrove, a above the thick of it. "The best freshman from Pittston, Penn. If politics for a man in my position is you'd like to promote Kennedy, call no politics at all." ND-SMC 283-8921. Humphrey supporters rally around 
Hubert Humphrey--The Senator Jim Kresse, a senior electrical from Minnesota is the most famil­engineering major from Evergreen, iar of all the Democratic figures Illinois. All interested in drafting and his waiting game may be the Humphrey should contact him at best strategy of all. President Ford 283-8725. has said Humphrey is the unifying All are urged to drop by Cam­force the Democrats need to make a paign Central in LaFortune and see serious challenge to the Republican the ND version of this important nominee. Some leaders are urging process whereby our leaders arise. him to enter at least a few The hours are 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. primaries, such as California and on Monday and Thursday, and 7 New Jersey. But as of now to 10 p.m. Wednesdays. 
jobs  are  virtually  unavailable  in  
that area.  
Don  Ray,  Ph.D.  candidate  in  
Government,  strongly prefers  an  

academic appointment. He con­tends that the Government depart-
* 
Observer 
1
Insight 1 
Grounds says. There are potential employers who won't hire a PH.D. because they are afraid he will be snobbish or consider a non-aca­demic job inferior. 
Clearly the trend toward non-ac­ademic jobs is strong. Lewis Solomon, executive director of the Higher Education Research Insti­tute notes that betwen 1980-85 the size of the college-aged group will decline by 25 per cent. Although colleges and universities expect more adult part-time students, it takes four to six part-time students to fill the space of one full-time undergraduate. Fewer professors will be needed. This trend indi­cates that Ph.D.'s will need to look to other professions and that graduate schools should reappraise their placement procedures 
OPEN 11 to 9 DAILY 
WATCH FO OUR AD ON FRIDAY!! 
Monday, .llnuary 26, 1976 the observer 
Irish hockey team splits with UMD 
by Paul Hess Minnesota in wintertime is a study in contrasts. At times it is gorgeous, its picturesque sub-Arc­tic landscape a source of exhilarat­ion and content. Moments later it can be awesome and menacing, however, desolate and disenchant­ing to the unwary visitor. For the Fighting Irish hockey team it was both this weekend, as Coach Lefty Smith's charges continued to excel on Friday only to come up short on Saturday, though this time not by much. Minnesota-Duluth was the oppo­nent, and Notre Dame proved its resiliency in game one of this hard-fought series before a highly partisan throng in the spanking clean Duluth Arena. With memor­ies of their previous outing, a 10-3 lambasting at the hands of Michi­gan, still haunting them, the Irish set out to prove to themselves and their fans season was a long way from being over, new-found convincing. In a first period high­lighted by checking, ND came out on top as hustling defenseman Roger Bour­que rifled the rebound of a Kevin Nugent slapshot past the prostrate 
NOTICES 
Morrissey Loan $20-$150, one day wait, 1 percent Interest. LaFortune, M-F, 11 :15· 12:15. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. 
GayComrunltyof Notre Dame. Informa­tion: P.O. Box 206, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Typing, $.35 per page. call Dil1 272-5549. 
IEINI Selectric typing. Manuscripts, dissertations, experienced. 
Interested In Rlolography? The N.D. Rloto Club Is holding their first meeting of the semester In 121 O'Shag on 7 Tuesday. Mr. Stevens, the advisor will give a presentation. New men-ber.; 
welcome.  
R>RRENT  
Rent my 233-1329.  upstairs.  $50  per  month.  
R>RSAL.E  

12-strlng guitar, good condition. call Usa 8089. 
calculator at less than half original price. 
Rl. 3248, 134 Keenan. 
Your kind of people. Serious high-fidelity sound system; to keep ~ loose, yet at a price that 1.1o00't get~ uptight. Stereo Components, 20-40 percent discount, RMS Audio, 321 S.Main, South Bend, Ind. 288-1681 {12-6 P.M.) 
W73 Mustang Grande, air, power, stereo , tape, one 0\Mler, undercoated, 33,000 
miles, no rust. 234-1372 after 5 P.M. 
Dolomite Ski boots, size 9. Used one season. cau 1924. 
WANTED 
Will pay big money for Marquette tickets. cau Mike 8720. 
Ranner Rec:ords now open for seaJild seln!Ster. New Janis tan, Bob OVfan, Grand Funk, Loggins and Messina, plus Jethro Tull's greatest hits. Call 1488 or stop in at 807 Ranner. 
Need 4 tickets to Ma-yland game. Call Mike after 6 P.M. 288-0088. 

Bulldog goalie, Rick Heinz. with 21 seconds remaining for a 1-0 lead. 
The lead was short-lived, though as Bourque's counterpart on the UMD side, senior defenseman and All-America candidate Dave Lang­evin deflected a Keith Hendrickson shot past the current Jrish goalten­ding sensation, sophomore Lenny Moher, who was to tum back 36 Bulldog shots before it was over. That tied it at 4:48 of the second stanza, and it stayed that way till the 17:59 mark, when UMD's Curt Giles received a belated Christmas present from referees John Ricci and Dick Haigh. A heated dispute resulted when the shrewd fresh­man deflected Tom Milani's cen­

Desperately need Marquette tickets. Call Sheila , 8135. 
Three or tour basketball tickets any Saturday game. Call Tom 1044. 
Desperately need 2 tix tor Marquette. Cali 1341. 
Need 4 Marquette tickets. call Pal 4-4161. 
Need 4 tickets to Maryland game. Please call Peggy 4-4198. 
Need 2 Davidson tix for parents. Call Mike 1624. 
Second semester senior looking for a reasonable good paying job.. Available all day Mon, Wed, A"i, and weekends. Call Howard at 234-8952. 
Desperately need 3 or 5 GA tix to West. Va. or Marquette. call nm 272-9566. 
Need 2 Marquette tickets, student or GA. Call Julie 4456. 
Need 2 Ma-yland or Davidson tickets tor a job next year. Please call Mike 1438. 
Need 2 Maryland tickets. Please call Kathy, 272-5539. 
Need 4 Ma-yland tickets. call 101, 8917 
Need one ticket to Maryland game. Ann 8803 
Need 2 DePaul basketball tickets. Call John 233-5315. 
Need 5 Davidson tix and 4 tix to any other Saturday game. 1031 or 1135. 
Need 2 student tickets to Ma-yland or Marquette game. call Jane 5135. 
Need Maryland and Marquette tickets. call Henry at 272-5133. 
Wanted: Ga Marquette tickets. Call Pat 1654. 
Need riders to Oneonta, NY Leave Thurs. Jan 29, back Mon nile. Share S. Chris 1471. 
Desperately need 4 non-student tickets to VIllanova. Cali l.arTy 282-1791. 
wasn't such a bad idea except for 
the fact that he used his skate. Moher and his mates clamored for justice but, not too surprisingly, to no avail, and Duluth held its first and only lead of the game. 
The Irish came right back, however, with Paul Clarke knotting the score at 2-2 with a backhander at the 19:03 mark. Don Fairholm then gave the visitors a 3-2 lead with only 2:34 gone in what is usually the final period, beating Heinz with a quick wrist shot along the ice. But a Milani slapshot at the 
14:02 mark got by Moher and sent the game into overtime, the second in as many Friday nights for Notre 
Must have 5 GA tix, any Saturday game. Call Terry 1609. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Ring lost. It's only a reconstructed ruby, but it has sentimental value. Call Jeff 1857. 
lost: a liquid silver necklace with hiShi. In the vicinity of O'Shag. Please call 234-3892. 
Found: IMlite cat on caflllUS. Call 234-3892. 
PERSONALS 
Marilou, life is a tale told by an idiot full of the sound and the fury signifying nothing. What idiot keeps talking? 
Peggurelia lives as MF. 
T.C. Grazie Mille. PUo venire fare una vislla? Grazie per prime" A!rsonal" anche. B. B. 
Observer staff, Thanks to all of ~ for being so kind and thoughtful during the Christmas holidays Hope to be back with ~ soon. Love, 
IINvJrr(l 
Happy Birthday Oinks!! Love Biog Deb and Big Ter. 
Dear Patrick. Thanks so much for the beautiful gift. Love, Joyce 
Mock Stock Mar1a!t-Feb. 2 thru Feb. 27. Old Business Bldg., 10 A.M.-3 P.M., Mon thru Fri. Win $100, $50, $25. Sponsored by N.D. Finance Club. 
REMEMBER THAT DISASTROUS PROM? Write doYK! ~r best story about that awful prom or formal dance and send It in tor the OBSERVER Friday the 13th· Val­entine's Day special!! Names (~rs and anyone else's) withheld upon request. Submit true stories to: Prom Disaster BoxQ Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
Juniors! Dealers and lliHleY holders are needed for the dass Mardi Gras booth. Interested? Call RDb (3610) or Ken (3342L ' 
1226HC: Your fellow inhabitants hope ~ and "Brad I" don't hitch up too soon: we don't want to lose a roorrmate. Hope ~ur 19th Is the happiest of all birthdays. Love 117. 
You like hot sauce? Get as much as ~ want at TACO RICO-Scottsdale Mall. 
as ifthe Irish were going to have to 
for his teammates, as they with­settle for their third tie of the 
stood a frantic third period rally by season, Clarke tallied his second 
the never-say-die Jrish. Alex Pirus, goal of the night, the third of the 
returning to the lineup for the first evening for the defense, picking off 
time in three weeks in this series, an errant Langevin pass and beat­
made his appearance a source of ing Heinz high on the glove side for consternation to Heinz (who had 45 a savory 4-3 win. 
saves) with three unanswered go­Saturday night it was the same als, two of them coming in a zany 
old story for Lefty's troops, as final minute. But in the end it was Duluth scored often and early, Heinz who had the last laugh,building up an insurmountable 4-0 winning his battle with hard-luck 
lead in the first two periods, two of 
net-minder John Peterson of Notre the goals by the talented Langevin. 
Dame by a rather familiar score of His play was a source of inspiration 4-3. 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF FF.BRUARY 2 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 213, Main Building. Interview times must be sighed for in person, Law School sign-ups are at the Pre­Law Society Bulletin Boards, O'Shaughnessy Hall, The sign-up period at the Placement Bureau will be from 8:00 am. to 5:00pm., Monday through Thursday. 
Ayr-Way Stores. Mon. B in AL with business interests, All BBA. 
Continental Can Co. Corrugated Division. All BBA. Kaufmann 1 s. B in AL and BA. Leeds & Northrup Co. B in EE, ME, ChE. Procter &Gamble Co. International Divisions. 
BMD in Al, EG, SC. BM in BA. (Refer to citizenship requirement in Spring Manual.) Reliance Electric Co. B in EE, ME, MEIO. MBA with Tech Undergrad. 
degree. Mellon Bank. B in Acct. 
~ 
Ca ma tlon Co. 
Tues. B in Fin, Mgt, Mkt, Econ, Corps of Engineers. Chicago District. liM in CE. Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. MBA with Mgt., Fin, Mkt Background or cone. Reliance Electric Co. Dodge Manufacturing Div. 11 in ME. MBA with Acct, Mkt or Engr. Background. Westinghouse Electric Corp. liM in EE, ME. Whirlpool Corp. All BBA. MBA with Mkt or Acct. Background or cone. York Air Conditioning. B in ME. 
~ 
FEB, 3/4 Mead Johnson & Co, Tues/Wed. Cancelled. 
FEB. 4 Action/Peace Corps/Vista.
Wed:-liM in all Disciplines, JD. Clairol, Inc. B in AL and BA. 
W. R. Grace & Co. Davison Chemical Div. Changed to Feb. 19. Inland Steel Co. Indiana Harbor Works. B in EE, ME, ChE, CE, Acct. RM in Met, Manufacturers National Bank, All BBA. MBA with Fin. background or cone. 
U.S. Energy Research & Development Adm, B in Acct. MBA. aM in EE, ME, ChE. United Technologies Corp. Norden Dlv, Cancelled. 
Allegheny Power Service Corp. W, Penn Power. Cancelled, CPC International, Inc. 11 in ME, EE, ChE. General Motors Corp. MBA --New York City only. ( GM will return Feb. 25 for MBA--Detroit only. Do not aign for both,) George Washington Univ. Grad. Sch. of Engr. Joint Inst. for Acoustics ~ Flight Sci, RM in all Engr Diaclpllnes & Physical Set. Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. B in ChE, ME, EE, Acct. 
W.R. Grace & Co. B in Acct. MBA with Fin. background or cone. Packaging Corporation of America, BM in AL. All BBA, Procter & Gamble Co./Plant Management. BM in ChE & Chern, MBA with B in ChE or Chern. Procter & Gamble Co/Product Development. Cancelled for permanent employment. Watch for bulletin regarding summer employment. Wilson~ Co,, Inc, All BBA. Bin Bio, Chern, Microbic. 
FEB. 6 Davison's. Div. of R. H. Macy & Co. 
Fri. B in AL and Mkt. Firat Wlsconaln National Bank of Milwaukee. B in AL and BA. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp. B in CE, EE, ME, Met, ChE, Mobil Oil Corp. Cancelled. Penn Central Transportation Co. 
B in CE, EE, ME, MEIO. BBA and MBA. Warner & Swasey. Changed to March 4. 
FEB, 4 Aerojet Liquid Rocket Co, Wed, BM in ChE and ME. 
Employer Information, Alternatives. Teaching. 
Summer. 
Action/Peace Corpa/Viata, Federal Service. 
Room 213, Administration Bldg. 
. l/22/1.6. 
'. 
• 
.. 
• 
. , ' ' . ~ , ' '
~ 
• 
-__.-­
~---­
Inspired Irish ruin Bru•InS again, 95-85 
by Bill Brink Sports Editor 
Sure. It happeru; every year," right? Notre Dame beats UCLA in South Bend. You can turn the channel to'Star Trek' as long as you're watching reruns. 
Before the game even began the crowd had a ten-point lead on the Bruins, and when it was all over, so did the Irish as they soundly whipped UCLA 95-85 before a madhouse crowd of 11,345 in the Notre Dame ACC Saturday afternoon. 
The victory was the Irish's third in three years over the Bruins here in South Bend, beginning in 1974 when they pulled off a spectacular 71·70 upset and continuing last year when they topped UCLA 84-78. In both games the frenetic crowd that shook the ACC gained a reputation for giving awesome inspiration to the Irish, and Saturday was no exception. 
"You can feel it for this game," said jubilant Irish coach Digger Phelps. "These students are unbelievable. They really psyched up at the rally Friday night, and they psyched us up today. We were very uptight and we needed a big win." 
"The crowd makes me do things I don't think I'm ordinarily capable of doing, "added ND All-American Adrian Dantley, who did his thing will enough and often enough to score thirty points, tying him with UCLA's Richard Washington for scoring honors in the game. 
But if A.D. got a lot of help from the crowd, he also got a lot of help from his teamates, most notably from two non-starters, Toby Knight and Don "Duck" Williams. Knight, removed from his starting role for the first time this season, pulled out of his slump by scoring ten points
.. 
and leading the Irish in the rebounding category with eleven. Williams 
cracked the Bruin defense with his long outside jumpers to notch 18 rttre Darm's "Dud<" Williams and Toby Knight carm off the bench to spari< the Irish's 95-85 vidory over UCLA 
points, second to Dantley for Notre Dame. !Murday. 
In fact, the whole Irish team played well. Dave Batton, cold from the "I'm proud to be a part of this," for there was exactly 3:22left in the Hawkins and second place on the outside in the first half, began to drive around his defender and up to said Phelps. "We've got great UCLA-Notre Dame game two years all-time scoring list. The loss set the basket, a move which earned him eight second-half points and a kids. They listen and they do whay ago when the Irish began their UCLA's record at 14-3, while game total of twelve. Freshman Bruce Flowers, starting his first you tell then to do, and that's what historic 11 point comeback. But ut raising Notre Dame's to 11-3. The collegiate game, responded well to the pressure by hitting for ten coaching's all about." was not to be for the Bruins. The Irish are home this week for two points and playing aggressive defense under the boards. Guard Ray The Irish jumped off to an early Irish controlled the game, and tough games against DePaul on "Dice"Martin controlled the ball superbly for the Irish, dealing off six 10-4 lead, but Richard Washington inched farther and farther ahead at Wednesday and Maryland next assists and scorinl!: seven points on his own. hit four straight shots for UCLA to the foul line, once leading by as Saturday. 
put them up 12-10 at 14:21 of the much as 14 points. first half. The game see-sawed "Notre Dame played a great NOTRE DAME f•)
back and forth until with 8:26 to go 
game today," said UCLA's Bartow. fg " 1ft pf pll
Adrian Dantley ... 12-19 6-7 8 4 II
Bruin forward Marques Johnson "It seemed like we had to play 
Bluet> Flowers ... 3-6 4-4 4 3 10
Extra Points hit a lay-up to gove UCLA a 26-24 catch-up the whole game. We had Dave Ba!ton ...... 1-ll Cl-O I 4 ttl lead. It was to be their last of the get over the hump never Bill Paterno ....... ~3 2-2 3 0 I
to but 
Ray Martin ....... 2-5 3-6 4 I 7
game. 
did .. Their pressure was very good, Duck WIIIJams . .. 6-13 6-7 I I 18~~~=s::::*=:::::::::::::::::::::::::=========================::::::::::::::::::::;;;;;:;:;::8;:;: The sixth man With UCLA in a zone defense, the very quick, and very hard." Bernard Rencher . 1-4 0.0 0 I 2 
.... 4-1 2-4
They said it was silenced, nevermore to exist. They said it was rude, Irish had gone to Dave Batton early Though the Irish captured the Toby Knight.. II 4 10 
Jeff C~nter .... 0.0 0.0 0 1 0
crude and a cheap imitation of its former self. But let it be known to to hit the outside jumpers. When glory, the Bruins received a fantas­Dave-kuzmicz . . . 0.0 0.0 0 0 0 one and all that on January 25, 1976 the critics were silenced. For the Batton's shots proved to be off tic performance from Washington. Totals 36-70 ~30 33 18 115 
UCLA(IIi)
spirit of Notre Dame is very much alive. mark Duck Williams began to take The junior from Portland, Oregon 
fg " reb pf pts
Indeed the day of Notre Dame's 95-85 victory over UCLA was a very over. Hitting two of his patented hit 14 of his 17 shots from the floor, Rich. W2llhlngton 14-17 2·3 5 2 30 special one. It was so special that Ray Martin's family came in from line-drive shots from the corner, for an unbelievable .823 shooting Ma111ues Johnson .4-11 1-3 11 I 4 9 6
R. Drollingl'r ...... 3-5 Il-l 4
New York to see Ray play in the A.CC for the first time. Duck put ND up 30-26. A jumper percentage. He was two for three Ray Townsend . . . H2 • 2·2 1 1 12 
It was so meaningful to Adrian Dantley's mother that she came all by Bernard Rencher and a three­from the foul line. Sharpshooting_ Andre McCarter . 3-8 0.0 I 5 6 the way from Washington to see the game. Gavin Smith followed with 16
point play by Dantley put the Irish Jim Spillallf' ....... 2-4 6-0 I 2 4 Wilbert Olindl' .. ~ 0.0 Cl-0 0 0 0
It was such a unique event that Peter Crotty, Goose Novak, Dwight up 35-28, forcing a time-out by points. Townsend added twelve Gavin Smith.. . S-13 0.1 3 16
e 
Clay and Chris Stevens, along with a host of other alumni, streamed in concerned Bruin coach Gene points, and Johnson nine. Roy Hamilton . . . 0.2 0.0 0 0 0 
Brad Holland ...... 0.1 0.0 I 0 0
from all parts of this vast land. Bartow, and bringing the crowd to Dantley's thirty points gives him 
David Greenwood . I-I 0.0 0 2 2
It was such a big game that NBC flew John Wooden, the man who its feet. But UCLA regrouped 1,799 career 21 behind Tom Totals 46-74 !).J9 27 24 85 Digger Phelps once likened to deity, out from the coast just to be a behind Washington, who was near­guest commentator. perfect on his long-jumprs, to fight 
The win meant so much to Notre Dame that Father Hesburgh back within four points, 44-40, at personally came to congratulate the participants. halftime. ''I don't know about UCLA,'' Phelps explained,' 'but this was a game UCLA had remained close in the
·' 
we had to win. Yesterday we did not perform well in the first hour of first half through a sixteen point practice. I was really worried about our mental attitude. Then came effort by Washington, a 26-18 the pep rally and our students really were psyched. Our students are rebounding edge and, as usual, a really great." high shooting percentage. They The desire for victory was so fervant that the student body, shot .526 per cent from the field. otherwise known as ''the sixth man'', came off the bench to put on a "We had four defenses ready," performance which would inspire even the deadest of souls. he explained. "We were supposed 
The sixth man was untiring. The student body showed up early and to put on full-court pressure when greeted the Bruins with a chorus of "Abuse, Abuse." we scored and half-court pressure 
The pride of the Irish had been stung, 86-70, three weeks earlier in when we didn't. But after the first Bruinland. The crowd resembled a charging elephant, one who never nimute-and-a· half, when I saw we forgets. could force them into turnovers 
The cheers for the Notre Dame five were undying and the jeers for with our half-court pressure, I told their opponents in constant evidence. UCLA was the intruder and they the kids to forget the other defense. were treated as such. Before the game even started it was painfully We went with what is called our apparent to the Bruins that they were headed for trouble. They were "pressure man" the rest of the finished before hardly a second had been played. The crowd with its way." taunting and Phelps with his cold stares had psyched the Bruins out. Batton and Dantley put the Irish 
"People seem to think we are going to have an easy time with up by eight with two quick buckets UCLA," Phelps had said earlier in the week. "Yet they have to be the at the start of the second half, and favorites." they continued to streak and stall 
Phelps was right on both acounts. The Irish did not have a man as for the next ten minutes. Twice tall as Ralph Drollinger. They did not have a forward as quick as they went up by eight points on the Marques Johnson. Nor did they have a consistent outside shooter the Bruins, 57-49 with 15:36 to play likes of Richard Washington. UCLA had trounced Notre Dame earlier and 63-55 with 12:48 left, but they in the year. They had to be the favorites. could not shake the Bruins. With 
Yet the air on campus reflected the thought that thre was no way Washington in the process of UCLA would come close to winning. For UCLA's big problem would be hitting eight field goals in a row, to find a psychological defense against the Notre Dame crowd. Simply, and reserve forward Gavin Smith our sixth man was much stronger than theirs. getting a hot hand, UCLA fought 
There is no way of gauging just how much the crowd is worth in their way back, until finally, with terms of points. Adrian Dantley said it this way,' 'The crowd makes me 11:02 remaining in the game, do things I am not capable of.'' Marques Johnson tied the game at 
Dantley's superhuman efforts were nothing short of amazing. His 65 rebounding, ball-hawking· and second half shooting culminated in a Dantley then went to work, game tying high.of 30 points. The spirit of the Irish moved in the form hitting three baskets in a row, and Alrian Cantley hits for fWl points on a fast break. (Riolo by Chris Sni1h) of Adrian Dantley. the Irish had a 77-71 lead with 8:02 
=~=;===========i:========================l:'Nom'V~=-;~Tty"';;=-s~~;=;;-~z========================================
Quickly that fever spread to the rest. Duck Williams was deadly to go. Then, with 5:39 left, and the from the outside. Toby Knight atacked the boards for 11 rebounds. Irish up 81-75, Digger called time Ray Martin's steals and passes were pivotal. Dave Batton scored with out. When ND came back out they FENCING authority. Freshman Bruce Flowers played like a seasoned veteran. went into their semi-stall offense Notre Dame -24, Cleveland State -3 
They never let up. The crowd cheered every movement. When it where they wait for the good Notre Dame-19. Indiana-8 was finally over, the fans stormed the court and boasted their heroes percentage shot only. Ray Martin SWIMMING up to cut down the nets. It was the final scenerio to a perfect and Duck Williams handled the ball Bowling Green -66, Notre Dame -49 
composition. . magnificently and the Bruins were 
TRACK
" January 25,1976 will always be remembered not in terms of statistics forced to foul. When Williams' Notre Dame -92, Illinois at Chicago Circle -54, DePaul _5 
or records. But it was a time when the entire Notre Dame community free throw made it 85-75, Bartow came together for a common cause of victory. called time out with 3:22 left. 1 WKESTUNG It was Notre Dame at its best for the whole world to see. Bartow's timinP" was svmbolic, Cleveland State -30, Notre Dame -6 Slippery Rock State-32, Notre Dame -14 
.. 




