Vaccine not responsible for deaths 
Federal health officials said yes­with a bad batch of vaccine." an had joined the list, with officials terday they found no evidence The agency said it will conduct reporting three deaths following swine flu vaccine in the Pittsburgh other tests on purity and potency in innoculations. area was responsible for the deaths about a week. A spokesman for the Center for of three elderly persons who had Officials of nine states suspend­Disease Control said there was no been vaccinated. ed the free, public vaccination evidence the deaths were connect­
The preliminary results of the programs. One of the nine -ed to the vaccine. He said a certain tests were reported by the Food Louisiana -announced the clinics number of deaths could be ex­and Drug Admini~tration (FDA) would reopen today and another -pected each day among elderly or after more swine flu clinics were Vermont. -said its inoculations chronically ill persons whether they shut down temporarily as a result would resume tomorrow. There receive vaccinations or not. of deaths among elderly people. were local or county closings in There were 12 other deaths,
Health officials stressed there about half a dozen other areas. 
including three in Michigan, two in was no known connection between The mass immunization progr­Oklahoma City, two in Kansas, two in Texas and one each in Tennessee Aorida and Louisiana. Authorities indicated these people were vacci­nated with a different batch of vaccine. 

The Louisiana death, announced yesterday afternoon, involved a 75-year-old woman who suffered heart failure the day after getting a flu shot. Dr. Hypolite Landry, the coroner, said the flu shot had nothing to do with the death. "Six 
1 elderly people died in Baton Rouge over the last two days and she was 1 one of them. The other five didn't 
1
have the flu shot and they died 
too." 

l
Parke-Davis & Co. of Detroit, which manufactured the batch involved said, "Scientific evidence confirms that the Parke-Davis infl­

1 
uenza vaccine could not have been ~ responsible for the Pittsburgh inci­jdent . . . In addition, no major 
(continued on page 4) 

1 
the $135 million vaccination pro­am started less than two weeks gram and 15 deaths reported in at ago. It had not yet begun at all in least eight states. 21 states. Most of the 500,000 
Spokesmen for the Center for people vaccinated so far have been Disease Control in Atlanta repeat­over 65 or chronically ill -the group ed that "there is no evidence that considred expecially vulnerable to the program should be curtailed in the dangers of swine flu. any way" and some officials re­White House press secretary opened closed innoculation cen­Ron Nessen said he didn't know ters. President Ford's reaction to the 
The FDA said it had completed deaths. but he said Ford, 63, tests of 35 vials of swine flu vaccine planned to go ahead and get his gathered from the Pittsburgh clinic vaccination today. where innoculations were given to The furor started Tuesday with three elderly persons who later the announcement that three Pitts­died. burgh-area residents, all in their 
"The tests did not indicate the 70's and all with a history of heart presence of any foreign materials" or lung trouble, died after receiving an FDA spokesman said. "On the the flu shots. Eight states, basis of the tests, the FDA has no including Louisiana, suspended i­evidence that the deaths in Pitts­munization programs immediately Thursday, Oct. 14, 1976 burgh were associated in any way and by midday yesterday, Michig­

Editorial 

WSND Censorship 
The administration's recent ultimatum were broadcast last year. 
to WSND radio to stop broadcasting While the Observer is neither owned nor 
hockey on FM or face losing their budget subsidized by the University, it receives 
and station manager constitutes censor­valuable benefits such as on-campus office 
ship of a student medium, a matter which space and automatic collection of sub­
should be of concern to everyone. scription fees. According to Paczesny, 
It does not much matter who, if anyone, these benefits could be cut off it the paper 
covers the hockey games. What does displayed gross irresponsibility and the 
matter is the administration's implication editors refused to reconsider their conduct. 
that the freedoms of thought, speech and We have always realized that there are 
the press are merely privileges and limits to the administration's tolerance, 
luxuries at Notre Dame. but have expected no difficulty as long as 
Bro. Just Paczesny, acting for the we comply with the standards of journal­
administration, used the University's istic responsibility which we have set for 
financial power over WSND to interfere ourselves. The current Observer­
with the content of its programming. administration relationship is based upon 
Paczesny, apparently supported by his reason and mutual respect, and both sides 
superiors, explained his actior with a wish to maintain it. 
sweeping theory that could justify much Such a relationship should also be 
further interference. maintained between the University and the 
Because the University owns and sub­media which it owns. If the administration 
sidizes the station, Paczesny claims that recognizes the students' right to express 
the University administration is "boss" themselves, and if the students recognize 
and can order WSND not to run some­the pressures under which the admin­
thing. He did stress that this would not be istrators sometimes work, then mutual 
a common thing; that the administration respect is possible. Reasonable adults can 
would intervene only to bring the station disagree without resorting to ultimatums. 
back to its original purpose. He would also Normally, the media and the admin­
intervene in the Scholastic, which is owned istration display mutual respect. That is 
and paid for by the University, if the why we find the incident with WSND's 
magazine showed "bad taste" and hockey coverage so disturbing. Bro. Just, 
"ugliness" of attitude and if the editors speaking for the administration, now 
refused to "listen to reason." seems to be saying that it will intervene 
But the relationship between the admin­whenever it wishes, but seldom wishes to 
istration and student media is not a simple, do so. This claim is also put forward by Fr. 
boss-employee connection. The purpose of Burtchaell, according to WSND staff 
the student media should be to give members who spoke to him on the subject. 
students a chance to learn journalism, to (Burtchaell refuses to either confirm or 
learn the responsibility that goes with the deny those reports. ) 
job, and to express their thoughts. This implies that freedom of speech and 
Bureaucratic boss-subordinate control of the press are merely privileges and 
would have a chilling effect on both luxuries, magnanimously granted to 
student expression and student responsi­students by a condescending administra­
bility. tion, as long as the students behave. But The University would be justified in freedom is not a luxury. It is a vital part of interfering with the business side of the life at a university --a place dedicated WSND and the Scholastic if the organiza­to the exploration of ideas. The student . tions were grossly misusing the University journalists explore these ideas in print and 
funds. They would be justified in on the air. Other members of the 
interfering with content if the editors were community --students and faculty --use 
so irresponsible as to allow libelous other methods. All should totally reject 
statements to be broadcast or printed for any implication that their liberty of 
which the. University would be legally expression is a mere privilege. 
responsible. · The coverage of hockey games is a small 
The University's actions would be thing and we may seem to be ·over­justified if they were taken to protect the reacting, but this case has major implica­station license when students departed tions. It is because our freedom of from the license ~rovisions. However, the expression is so valuable that we speak out FCC renewed ~ SND1.S license in August so strongly. Any institution• that denies of this year, although 34 hockey games this freedom loses all respect. 
~----......................................................~~ 

by Chris Smith 
Aa.t. Managing Editor 

A slide show presentation in 
Lewis Hall basement presented by 
a student representative of the St. 
Joseph County Health Department 
gave the national overview and 
local details of the Federal govern­
ment's swine flu vaccination pro­
gram. . 
Notre Dame senior, Joel Burian, 
the Health Department ;tudent . liaison, began the slide show with a history of the flu in the United States. "The virus that causes 
influenza," he explained, "is co'b­
stantly changing at a slow rate. 
About every ten years, an antigenic 
change occurs. That is, a strain of 
the virus forms which is vastly 
different from former strains.'' 

When this happens, an epidemic 
breaks out. Burian cited the 1957 
Asian flu and the 1968 Hong Kong 
flu as the last two outbreaks. 

"The cost of the 1957 Asian flu 
was $3.9 billion," he said. Worse 
damage is feared for this year's 
"swine flu," unless the public is 
immunized. Usually, Burian ex­
plained, an epidemic is over and 
has done its damage before the 
public is immunized. 

"However," said Burian, "this 
year's 'swine flu,' properly re­
ferred to as A-New Jersey-76, is 
similar to the virus that caused a 
world-wide epidemic in 1918, .and 
killed one-half million people. For 
this reason, the United States 
J 
Vol. XI, No. 33 
government decided to finance a program to immunize more than 200 million citizens. This massive of a program has never been undertaken before; nor in so short a time." 
''The immunization program be­gan October 1." Burian continued. "High-risk groups will be vaccinat­ed first. This group includes not only those over 65, but also anyone with chronic bronchial or muscular disease, diabetes or disease of the heart or kidneys. Also. those under 18 should not be immunized.'' 
He urged everyone to check with their parents and family doctor over vacation, to check for 'any history of reactions to other injec­tions or allergies to eggs. 
Because the vaccine is made from eggs, anyone with an allergy to eggs will react when injected. Sue Reis, a senior, majoring in immunology, pointed out Hiat reac­tions to the injections do not come from the virus itself. "It is the egg albumen and the chemicals that go into it when the serum is made the 
cause  an  allergic reactions,"  she  
said.  
Burian  outlined  the  plans  to  

make the immunization available to students. ''The shots will be given one day only, Thursday, Oct. 28, at Sepan Center. Nurses will be there from 8 a.m. until4:30 p.m." 
Application forms, which must be filled out before the immuniza­tion, will be distributed in the halls. 

2 the observer Thursday, Oct. 14, 1976 
----~~~~~~----------~----~~ 
News Briefs 1~or~er Sec!eta!yButz noted 
J:====::::=::::=::::::-:=:::::::::====:::::=::::=:::::fnternational I 0 r IncreasIng I arm eXports 
Earl Butz may be remembered its aid to the pro-U.S. junta in Chile Consumers complained that what today for his ethnic jokes, his and to the Middle Eastern nations they saved in taxes through the
Flood threatens Venice 
attacks on food stamp recipients of Syria, Jordan and Egypt in hopes reduction of government programs 
and the $150,000 dining room he of influencing the diplomatic situa­was more than offset by higher 
built at the Department of Agricul­tion t,here. food prices. · VENICE, Italy -Flood waters sloshed around St. 
ture during the height of the world

Mark's Square yesterday in a grim reminder to 
food crisis. History of the controversy And the Federal Trade Commis­Vcnctia~s of how little has been done to protect the sion charged that consumers paid
But he will go down in history as

l~goon cJt_y that suffered its worst flood 10 years ago. 
an extra $2.6 billion for foodButz's administration was sur­

the man who oversaw the most

S1rcns wailed at dawn for the first time this year to alert dramatic change in U.S. farm rounded by controversy from the because of concentration in the
the 60.000 re~idents of the city's historic center of industry.
approaching "high water." policy since the New Deal and the start. At his nomination hearing, 
biggest jump in food prices--45 his appointment was almost Farmers were furious over the percent in the last four years--in blocked when consumer and small brief embargo on wheat and soybean recent memory. farm groups accused him of being sales in 1974, a move designed to
---:-=-=-=~~~::::::::=:::::=:::==============National 
Under Butz's stewardship the an agent of giant agribusiness slow the rise in food prices. (Butz. USDA: corporations. They pointed to his however, opposed the embargo.) 
*eliminated taxpayer-financed directorship and stock-holdings in a Farmers, watching their income price-support program's that had number of large corporations, in­begin to decline from its 1973 peak. idled 38 million acres at a cost of $4 cluding Ralston-Purina, J. I. Case also objected bitterly to the grow­

Dean identifies 'Deep Throat' 
NEW YORK -Former White House Counsel John 
billion annually; (a tractor-producing subsidiary of ing share of the farm dollar goingDean concl~dcd _while in prison that "Deep Throat," *pushed farm exports to their Tenneco) and Stokely-VanCamp. to middlemen identified by Butz asthe mvstcnous mformer in the Washington Post's present all-time high of $22 billion. The small farmers and consum­the main cause of the rise in foodem erage of the Watergate scandal. was Nixon making farm exports the single ers foc.used particularly on Ralston­prices.
\(1eL-chwriter David Gergen, the New York Post said largest'item in U.S. trade; . Purina. on of five corporations that\T~terday. The Post said Dean arrived at his conclusion *drastically reduced the Food for control 90 -percent of the broiler In the future Butz sees "moreaftn talking with former White House friends and after Peace program: a foreign-aid chi<;ken industry, as an example of highly concentrated capital. higherlong (1LT'>onal deliberation. bean. however. declined to 
name Gergen as the figure in his just-published book, effort, set up in the wake of World the growing domination of fanning levels of management. m()re spe­
cialization of labor, and. if youWar II, to help poorer nations and by large corporations.

··Blind Ambition-The White House Years," because 
Then came the housewife's boy­choose, with a higher degree of
get rid of U.S. surpluses; *took on an unprecedented role cott of rising beef prices. followed integration." His warning to farmers: "Adapt or die!" 
he wa'> not absolutely sure. 

in foreign policy by pushing the use by more controversy during the Earl Butz was the last of theof the U.S.'s massive food supply Soviet grain deal over the tight
....-Qn Campus Toda!J'-/--' 
interlocks between the USDA and brash. innovative policy-makers of
as a diplomatic weapon in interna­

the leading export firms that the Nixon administration. Despite
tional power struggles.
thursday, october 14 virtually control U.S. grain sales his departure his policies will abroad. · continue to be the center of

Skyrocketing prices

12 pm colloquium, "sponsored research in the humanities: Food prices continued to soar, controversy for years to c::>me in the opportunities and proposal writing'\, by dr. edward The grain sales plus the elimina­though at a somewhat lower rate. nation· s number one industry.
manier, n.d., sponsored by center for study of man, 
tion of U.S. grain reserves. another
room 1131, library Butz scheme, drove wheat prices-­and the price of bread and grain­4 pm colloquium, "vi~ual habituation and cognition during 

fed meat--skyward. In 1973 prices 


Hysterectomies in demand
infancy," by dolored miller, n.d., sponsored by 
rose 20 percent. According to a
psychology dept., room 119, haggar hall 
New York Times estimate, this one 

CHICAGO -More ar.d more Dunnihoo said one to three
deal cost consumvers close to $5 
women arc demanding hysterec­
7:30pm tour and discussion, "behind the scenes at the notre percent of tubal ligations fail and
billion on their grocery bills. 
tomies as a means of sterilizationdame art gallery" with peter m. winkler, asst. to three women subsequcntlv become
In addition. massive grain sales 

even though the operation meansdirector, n.d. art gallery pregnant. The physician ~lust wei­
concentrated greater power in the 
greater risks than tying the Fallop­gh this in making a decision. he
hands of the five huge grain 

ian tubes, the usual method.
lecture and demonstration," the psychology of sacre­sa_id. as. well as how a pregnancy
exporters. two of whom control half 
physicians said yesterday.

mental use of peyote among american indians: special m1ght affect a woman psychologic­
of U.S. grain exports. Later Butz 
This increased demand poses areference to shadow aspects", by john and edith laney, allv and phvsicallv.
identified the growing share of the 
problem for physicians. who are
san diego, calif., sponsored by depts. of theology, Women also arc four time~ as
f""::l dollar going to middlemen-­
trained to remove the uterus only if sociology and anthropology, library aud. 
like!~· to become depressed after

proc· ssors. exporters. distributors 
dbease is present. they said at the hysterectomy than after other sur­
and commodity speculators--as the 
clinical congress of the American
discussion, "flight test programs at edwards air force gcrv. he said.
main cause_ of higher food prices. 
College of Surgeons. center, sponsored by aerospace engineering dept. 
base," by donald berry, nasa dryden flight research 
The Soviet grain deal coincided Sterilization of women usually (aiaa), room 303, engineering bldg. 


ERRATUM

with a worldwide reduction in food is achieved by tubal ligation, the 
output and the onset of famine tying of the Fallopian tubes. a 
~ re~resentative of the Boston

8:15pm meeting, advisory council meeting, college of arts and particularly in Africa, but Butz relatively simple procedure. ~mve:s•ty Law School will conduct letters,cce 
continued to push sales and reduce Hysterectomy to achieve sterili­mterv1ews on Thursday, Oct. 28. It zation has been likened. to "crack­
foreign aid--"giving the stuff was erroneously announced that 
away," as he called it. ing walnuts with a sledge hamme­friday, october 15 Bo~ton C:ollege Law School would r" in that it is excessive for that
This led to a bitter attack on the be mter~lewing candidates on that 
purpose. said Dr. Dale Dunnihoo,9am meeting, parents council of saint mary's college,board date_. Signup sheets are located
U.S. at the 1974 Rome Food 
an obsteritrician-gynecologist atroom, lemans hall outside room tot O'Shaughnessy.
Conference, where third world
~ 
Keesler Air Force Base. Miss.

nations condemned the U.S. for But. he said, if one doctor will12:15 pm travelogue, "rumania, by albert Iemay, n.d., sponsored 
f 
failing to meet its responsibilities not do it for a woman "another oneby biology dept., galvin aud. . 
to poor nations. Butz's response down the street will.'' 
sparked further controversy: 
The age of "medical paternali­computer course, "vsbasic",room 115, computer
3:30pm 

"Some people are always starving
~ 
sm" is in past. he said. In those
center/math bldg. 

somewhere." 
days, he said, the doctor would sit 
Meanwhile. the shrinking food down and say to the patient. "My r 
4:30pm colloquium, "fir.ite groups and non-associative com­
aid dollar was being distributed dear. this is what you should have illinois at chicago circlel, sponsored by math dept., 
mutative algebras", by dr. stephen d. smith, univ. of 
according to principles of food as a and what you will have." room 226, computer center/math bldg. 
diplomatic weapon advocated by "Today. however. the liberated Butz and the CIA. For a time aid woman does not want this medical 5:15pm mass and dinner, bulla shed 
was increased dramatically to the paternalism. but rather desires to failing pro-U.S. regimes of Viet­make her own decisions as to 6:30pm 'rugby, b-team vs. michigan, cartier field 
nam and Cambodia. whether she wants children, or More recently, the U.S. has sent even as to whether she wants to 7:30pm rugby, a-team vs. michigan, cartier field 
retain her uterus," he said. 

Prof to address 

7:30pm travelogue, "focus on finland" by sid dodson, sponsored by south bend lions club, o'laughlin aud. 
Berlin c~nf~rence (~The Observerl
• 
8pm concert, earth, wind and fire, tickets: $6.50 and 
On mOtiVatiOn Night Editor: Marti Hogan
$5 50, ace 

Dr. William P. Sexton. associate Ass't Night Editor: Paul professor of management at Notre Schappler, Giacomo D'Aurora
8 pm ceremony, capping cer~rr.-1nv, sponsored by nursing 
Dame, will join a group of Ameri-layout Staff: Steve Odland,school, reception follow: 1g.church of loretto 
can scholars presenting talks at the Barry Tillis, Chris Stuhi­saturday, october 16 
International Research Institute dreher, Dan La'ckner, and Symposium in Berlin, Germany on Drew Bauer Friday. Features layout: TimBam exam, graduate record exams, engineering aud 
Sexton's discussion of "Work-O'Reiley Value Alienation as a Mediator in Sports layout: Fred Herbst,conference, society for adolescent medicine, "recent
'lam 

the Structure-Productivity Link-Colleen Clucas, Paul Steven­advar-ce:; in understanding mechanisms of puberty" by age" is a result of research of a son . c.r. allen w. root, prof. of pediatrics, univ. of florida & new contingency theory of motiva-Typists: Gwen Coleman, Dondirector university serviCe, all children's hospital, st. 
tion which was conducted in insti-Roos, Susan Shellenbarger,
peters~urg; "the impact of chronit illness in adoles­tutions and firms located in the Kathy Egbart, Mary Anncence" by dr. derek miller, prd. assoc chairman, dept. 
Michiana and Chicago areas. Keefeof psychiatry, univ. of mict1igan; "advoc.~cy and The fourteen American scholars Early Morning Typist: TerritdolescPnts" by dr. thomas shaffPr, n d. law school,cce 
attending the symposium in West Harlan Germany will be joined by a similar Day Editor: Mary Mungovan11 am film, "nfltre dame in review" sponsored by alumni number of European educators Copy Reader: Tom Byrneassociatiun, washington hall ' 
interested in the problem of hum-Ad layout: Tom Walrath 1:30pm 
anizing work in diverse organiza-A special thanks to my layout
football, o~egon at notre dame tions and cultures. \staff! 
J 

Last call for Navy tix 
Tickets for the Notre Dame-Navy 
football game to be played in 
Cleveland on Oct. 30 which were 
purchased through the ND/SMC 
Cleveland Club can be picked up on 
Tuesday. Oct. 26 at the Student 
Union Ticket Office. second floor, 
LaFortune Center, from noon to 5 
p.m. 
In order to pick up tickets under someone else's name, the appro­priate !D's must be presented. STudents desiring adjacent seating should come together to pick up their tickets. Seats are still avavilable for the Cleveland bus scheduled to leave at 12:30 p.m. Friday. Oct. 29 from the CCE and returning from downtown Cleve­land at 2 p.m. Sunday, Oct. 31. Round trip fare is $20. 
Deadline for bus tickets is Friday Oct. 15. Rally tickets are ~till available from Cleveland Club of­ficers for $2.50 each. 
llw Olht'r\t>r" pui>l"lwd Mondo!\ through I nd.1v and v.t•,.kl\ dunng thP '>Umm!'r w<>'lon. PX< <'PI dunng tht> Pxam and va< d!1on pPnod' Th!' Obwrvpr ~~ publ"h"d by '>ludPnt'> ut thP Llnlv!'r'>l!y of Notr<' DamP and St Mary·., Collt>gP Subscnptions may be purchasPd for $20 pN yPar ($10 per semestPr) from The ObsPr· ver. Box Q. Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 St-cond class PO'>t~gt> pa1d, Notre Dame, lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a membPr of the Associated Press All rpproduct1on rights ar<' re'>erv!'d 




ND students unaware of unique mail service 
by Mike Towle Alumni Hall to the Administration 
Staff Reporter Building for improved service, 
noted Burke. Its centralized loca· 
The Student Union has. recently tion is much more convenient for· 
reactivated the campus mail ser­the hall ma,ilmen. 
vice, providing 'free delivery of The four campus mailboxes are 
)etters directed to on-campus ad­located in front of Lafortune Stu­
dresses. dent Center, the.. Knights of Colum­
"Stamps don't have to be put on bus building and , both dining • 
campus mail because the campus allowing for easy access to a box 
service is independent of the U.S. from anywhere O'n campus. In 
Postal Service," · stated Genny addition, mail can be delivered 
Burke, director of the Student anywhere on campus except for 
Union Services Commission. "We Moreau Seminary, Carroll Hall and 
hire our own mailman out of the new town houses. 
Student Union funds and he is "However, people must caution 
responsible for the pickup of all , against putting stamped mail in the 
campus mail on a daily basis, campus boxes because that must 
Monday through Friday." be handled by the U.S. Postal 
Burke added that this year's Service," warned Burke. "In addi-· 
campus mail service is .quite effic­'tion, all people sending campus 
ient although most students are not mail should always address their 
aware of its fUrrent operation. mail properly so as to include the 
room number and name of building "Our mailman picks up the campus along with the person's name ~omail from each of the four various insure proper deliverY:"mailboxes at 5 every day. He then Burke reiterated that not manytakes it to the mailroom in the people are aware of this unique · Administration Building wh_ere he service on the Notre Dame campus puts each piece of mail into one of and have thus far failed to take fullthe slots reserved for each dorm. 
advantage of the service. "TheThen it is up to each individual hall campus mail service is quite bene­mailman to pick the mail up there. 
ficial because it allows students toThere is usually a two day span send things like birthday cards tobetween pickup and final distribu­their friends across campus. Be­tion." 
sides, everyone loves to receive The point of distribution to each mail because it is something differ­hall mailma~ was switched from ent to look forward to.'' 
Permanent ID di.Strl.bUti•On begl·ns after October break 
card with more futUre p·u os-eS. A
by Marian Ulicny 

· rp .
Staff Reporter future;! added feature Will be a strtp
of recording tape containing coded 
· f t' Th t 'II
Permanent student ID's will be m orma ton. ese apeswt a11ow distributed when students return for more security controls, such as in the dining halls, Kil revealed.
from the October break according to Dave Kil, assistant re9istrar. Kil felt the delay problems arose ' Students Jacking permanent ID's primarily because of the company change. "Like the initial phase of
will receive letters with information concerning distribution times and most new situations, problems are 
locations. Students eating in the bound to occur, but we hope 
dining halls will receive ID's there, problems of such magnitude will 
and specific procedures will be not continue in the future," Kil 
posted. Other students can obtain sail 
their cards in the registrar's office. In addition to the distribution 
Students whose pictures did not delay, another problem has arisn develop will also be informed when with cards already ·in use. "The they can be retaken. lamination seems not to be approa­
The major reasons for the post­ching the standards for normal ponemenr·of lD distribution are a use," Kil stated. He has received shipping delay and a company numerous complaints of the cards processing error, Kil stated. prematurely cracking. 
"We've been getting a Jot of "There is no reason why the inquiries by phone and in person," cards should crack under normal Kil said. "The students are use, especially at this early date,'' becoming impatient, and rightfully Kil noted. He advises students to so. Basically. we can only apologi­report defective cards to the regist­ze not only to the students, but also rar's office and attempt to identify to other service-affiliated offices in under what conditions the cracks the University like the bookstore developed. With such information, and the dining halls. They all "we can better correct the situati­suffer from the delay.'' on,'' Kill stated. 
Kil stressed that the processing When the new ID's arrive, the error is a direct result of "growing faulty cards will be collected and pains," This year, the University returned to the manufacturer to switched to a different company determin.e what. ca!Jsed the lamina­that will be able to pr.ovide a ty.pe of tion defe,cts. 
.''. 
r 1' "' 'l ' • I 1 c ~ -:; \ 
.. ·... 

T_h_u_rsd_ay_,_Oct_._1_4,_1_9_76____....::t..:.:h:..::e:......=observer 


Counseling center offers aid 
by Kathy Mllls News Editor  pointed out tests counseling.  are  part ot the  McCabe said he wnnltt like to have 15 percent of the staff's time  
The first session with the coun­ concerned  with  counseling  about  
selor is an intake session, McCabe  problems  and  85  percent  with  
You  don't  have  to  have  a  said.  During  the  session,  the  people who do not have problems  
problem to climb the stairs to the  counselor fills out  a  form  on  the  but who "could be more effective."  
· fourth floor of the Administration  person.  However, the Counseling  'The Counseling Center operates  
Building and go to the Counseling  Center follows  a  policy  of strict  administratively under the Office of  
Center, according to Dr. Sheridan  confidentiality, McCabe said, and  Academic Affairs since its concern  
P. McCabe, director of the Center.  those  who  seek  counseling  are  is ''with the educational mission of  
"The Counseling Center mostly  made  aware  of  this  before  a  the University.  We  hope to help  
helps students respond better to all  counselor sees them.  '}'he in for·  the student be more effective as a  
Notre Dame has to offer," McCabe  mation does not go on the person's  student," McCabe stated.  
explained. "We want to help students become better students, and not only in an academic sense.'' The Center offers counseling to students with educational, voca­tional, personal and marital prob­lems who request help from the Center, but it also tries to reach those students who do not seek help, McCabe said. "We have special programs that we hope will meet the needs of students as best we can detPrmine them," he said.  record, and it is not released to anyone unless the person requests it," he stressed. McCabe said the Center will refer students who seek counseling to other facilities if their problems are not appropriate for counseling from the Center's staff. "For example,'' he said, "some academ­ic problems may be handled better by a dean's office, and if someone seeks vocational counseling, we may refer him to the Placement Bureau for information."  The Counseling Center was es· tablished in 1967 and took over the space formerly occupied by the Department of Guidance and Tes­ting. Besides its function to help students become more effective, the Center also is involved in training students, both graduate and undergraduate, in the skills of counseling psychology. McCabe said one of the Center's perennial problems is making stu­dents aware of its services.  

"People's awareness will not al­T.hese "special programs" are ways be high," he stated. "Part ofcalled outreach programs or devel­Reaching Out the problem is that Notre Dame is

opmental groups and are usually short-term projects, often lasting "My one criticism of counseling such a transitory place. You must only one day, according to Mc­is that we only get to provide cont.i~ually teach people who you Cabe. The groups are divided into service when the problem gets so are. the four general categories of bad that the person comes and "What bothers me is people not personal development, life plan­seeks us QUt," McCabe empha-knowing we're here." he added. ning and career development, sized. "We need to find ways to McCabe said he would like · study skills and academic develop­reach people well in advance of this ''everyone to feel we have some­ment and organizational develop­stage.'' This is the purpose of the thing to offer him. They don't have ment. outreach programs, he noted. to take it. But if the students know "We want to help as conveniently we're here. if they know we've got 
The personal development cate­and as unobtrusively as possible," something, then they can come orgory includes a weight loss pro­he stated, "but we'll always be not. For them not to know is togram, an assertiveness training here for people." eliminate their free choice."

program, a training program in anxiety management and a training program in parent effectiveness. 
******************** 
McCabe noted only the weight Joss program. which runs for eight to t Thursday 3-6 Pre-Break Happy Hou~ i ten weeks and is primarily for staff and faculty, is not being offered 
this semester. ~ Beers 5 for $1 * 
Included under life planning and career development is a life plan­ning group and a test feedback group for vocational counseling and 

~ senior bar i
a job interview training program. , McCabe noted the career informa­tion library formerly locate~)n the 
~ Saturday ~ 
Counseling Center wa~ donated to the Placement Bureau's career 

iC open before game 11 am. *
information library. The division of study skills and ac.,ademic development has a pro­

~iC Hot dogs and Hamburgers ** 
gram on time management and one· on test anxiety management. 
The ,organizational-development ~ open after game till 2 am. ~ services include environmental as­sessment of the University resi­dence halls, leadership training, 
******************** 
consultation with staff, facutly and students and educational program-. 
SUNSHINE PRO~OTIONS & BILLY _SPARKS PRESENT: 
ruing. McCabe said-he has been working on the environmental as­
sessment prdgram this semester. "We would like to feature these 




EARTH 
programs this year," McCabe sta­
ted. and mentioned the Center 
wou1~ probably begin with the 1,ife planmng workshop. "They re
fr .. h dd d ..All h t 

&FIRE
.ee,. e a t'e • , you ave 0 gtve ts your 1me.
"St d t b' t t 1 t f
0

u e~ s are su Je~. a o o pressure, he stated. !hey need all t~e help the~ ca~ g~t tn terms of gettmg everythmg m. tn ~ compre~: sed semester and domg 1t better. 
Counseling Procedure Explained 
McCabe explained the procedure used for the Center's other func­tion--counseling. "Everyone on the staff is, in turn, on call through the week. If someone comes in, he and Special guest NS is invited to see a counselor right there--no questions asked, no 
Friday Oct. 15 8:00 PM
forms filled out," he said. 

Notre Dame ACC
If it is someone who wants counseling and it is "a good idea," Tickets $6.50 Main floor and all padded seats the Center obtains the necessary information about the person inclu­5.50 Bleachers ding where to reach the person and the scope of the problem he contin­ued. The staff then makes a On Sale now at: ACC Box office, Robertson's, decision on who can best help the St. Joseph Bank and Branches, First Bank 
person in regard to both the nature 
(Main Branch only), The Elkhar1 Truth, Just 
of the problem and coincidence of 
For The Record noo Center), Suspended
schedules. According to McCabe, 
Cord (Eikhar1), The Record Joint (Niles),
the person is contacted by the staff member within three or four days Boogie Records (Mishawaka). and is usually given an appoint­
ment within a week. and Notre Dame Student Union Testing is another service of the Co~~;reling ~~nter, . but .McCabe 
• .t.. • ~· 
I jl ~" •' -· " .-" ,• • \' 


the observer
4 


Football concessions 
ALABAMA Nov. 13 
lcontlnued from page 1) 
adverse reaction had been reported in any of the 118,8000 people who were immunized with this vaccine lot at 25 ~?ther locations." 
Samples of the batch involved ­lot No. A913339A -were being tested by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) at its Bureau of Biologica in ockville, Md. The FDA said it was testing other vials of unopened Vaccine collected from the clinic where the Pittsburgh victims were inoculated. Results were expected late yesterday or early today. 
''One the basis of all records available to date, th~; FDA has no evidence that the deaths in Pittsb­urgh are in any way associated with a bad batch of vaccine," a spokes­man said. 
The states where the program was canceled -at least temporarily -were Michigan, Wisconsin, Loui­siana, Vermont, Alaska, Maine, New Mexico, lllinois -except for 
Chicago, and Texas -except for the · Houston area. 
Clinics also were closed in pennsylvania's Allegheny County­where Pittsburgh is located. Officials in Bucks County, at the other end of Pennsylvania, closed their clinics briefly but announced resumption of the program yester­day afternoon. 
There also were isolated local or county suspensions in Florida, New Hampshire, North Carolina, West irginia and California. The opening1 of two clinics in Virginia was postponed until today. 
Medical authorities in areas wh­ere clinics were closed said they were simply being extra ca~tious. 
s~~e-authorities expressed con­cern that publicity about the deaths could derail the program, which is designed to vaccinate up to 200 million Americans. 

Dr. Elina Haavio-Mannila of' Helsinki, an international authority on changing sex roles, will present a talk at noon Monday in the Memorial Library Lounge. The lecture, "Gender Roles in Northern Europe: A Cross National and Historical Analysis," is sponsored by the Department of Sociology and Anthropology and is open to the public. 
A professor of sociology at the University of Helsinki, she has done research in the area of changing gender roles in Scanda­navia, as well as in medical and family sociolo y. She is vice resi-


FEATURING FINE EQUIPMENT BY: 
•tAmpeg  _ • Guild  
• Marshall  • S. L f<'ossman  
. • Gibson  • Swede  
• Musicman  • M.X.R.  
• IYamaha  • Blessing  

feraJssion instruments and \accessories, Dnlm mnter now opeo home of professional ·. and ft_Jture proftsslonal musician~ 
finest seledions of guitars, amps and acc:essones 
50921 u.s. 31 North, South Bend.\lndiana)77-3850\ 

Evidence uncovered in probe of major assasination attempts 
Dr. Martin Luther King Jt. may have been the victim of "security stripping"··a technique used by intelligence agencies to expose a victim to assassination by removing his protection--involving the Mem­phis police and possibly a federal intelligence agency. 
This is the theory that convinced the House of Representatives to create a special 12-member com­mittee to probe both the 1968 King murder and the 1963 assassination of President John F. Kennedy. 
The Black Caucus in the House · acting on new information in the King case, was responsible for breaking a stalemate and pushing the investigation through, accord­ing to several appointees to the committee. 
The new information was given the Black· Caucus by two investiga­tors: Mark Lane, author of the best-selling book on the JFK assassination, Rush to Judgment, and Abby Mann, and Academy Awary-winning screenwriter and author of Judgment In Nuremburg. 
They and Newsday reporter Lew Payne found in scores of interviews with those involved in the King investigiation that: 
Chi Epsilon ~ailing Club Am. Radio Club Celtic Society Omaha Club ND Rowing Club La Crosse Club Lyons Hall 
MIAMI AISEC-AIAA Class of 77 
NSHP Badin Hall Fisher Hall Lewis Hall Finance Club 

Joint Eng. Coun. soc. Women Eng. Dancin' Irish 
Morrissey Hall 
Beta Alpha Psi 
Management Club 
Nov. 20 Geology Club Class of 78 

Chicago Club Class of 79 Pitt Club ND Photo Club 

States cancel swine flu programs 
Dr. J. Donald Millar, director of the bureau of state services of the Center for Disease control, said, 
•'The program will come to a screeching halt" if reports linking the vaccinations to the· deaths continue. "The continued empha­sis on what is an expected pheno­menon .. . is going to have a deleterious effect on the program.'' 
Dr. David Sencer, director of the center, added, "We have no evidence to suggest that these Pittsburgh deths were caused ,by vaccine or the vaccine programs.'' 
Dr. Sidney M. Wolfe, director of Ralph Nader's Health Research Group, an early critic of the mass immunization plan, said, however, the program should be halted for a few days. 
Reaction among the public was mixed. A Florida clinic said the number of people seeking flu shots dropped off sharply yesterday. But a 71-yr. -old man waiting in line in California said he was not worried. "A shot's a shot. I get 'em every year," he said. 
· In Nebraska, Ray Soles, director of the Lincoln-Lancaster county Health Department, said, "Immu­nization clinics haven't been start­ed yet and won't be until word is received ... as to whether or not the vaccine has anything to do with the deaths or if they were coincident-
a.) " 

Officials in New York, Utah, Florida and Massachusetts discon­tinued use of the vaccine shipped in the same batch as that given to the Pittsburgh victims. A spokesman for Parke-Davis said he could not provide a breakdown of the 25 locations where lot A913339A was given out, but Sencer said 1 million to 11/2 million doses had been shipped, mostly in the East. 
Maurice Reizen, Michigan health director, said the investigation to see if the shots are related to the deaths could take as long as three days. 
Pennsylvania Health Secretary eonard Bachman said "The 65-co­unty swine flu program is moving ahead and I feel confident that the program will be a success despite the recent controversy surrounding the nonconnected immunization d­eaths in Alegheny County. 

Presentation on sex roles scheduled for Monday 
dent of the Finnish Social Science Association and has served her ·government as a member of the Law Committee. She has also been .a/consultant to the Department of ·Labor of the Swedish government. 
Books written by Dr. Haavio­
Mannila since her graduation in 
1958 have dealt with the subjects of 
village fights·, need of domiciHary 
care in Finnish rural'communities, 
physicians under study, Finish 
woman and man and roots of 
Finnish sociology. She engaged in 
post-doctoral studies at Northwest­
ern University and University of 
Minnesota in 1964 and 1965. . 


arm 
Barber & Hair 

a·
Style Shop. 

Ed Redditt, the black Memphis police detective in charge of pro­tecting King, was removed from his post across the street from the motel where King was shot just two hours before the slaying. Redditt told PNS he had set up a contin­gency plan to seal off the area in the' event of violence, but it "was never implemented.'' 
Director of the Police Depart­ment Frank Holloman--a former FBI agent of 25 years whp had worked with Director J. Edgar Hoover--told him he was being removed because a murder plot against him had been discovered. After being taken home and watched by Memphis police for two days, he was put back on duty--and never heard another word about the murder plot. 
Because Holloman told him of the plot in the company of a man he identified as a Secret Service agent, Redditt assumed •'that Hol­loman had gotten this information from the Secret Service." But that agency denies having any record of sending an agent to the meeting. 
Representatives from the FBI, military intelligence, National 
' 

Guard and other agencies were there, howeve.r. 
Redditt's assistant told investiga­tor Mark Lane that he too had left the command post oppostie King's hotel before the slaying, but re­fused to discuss the circumstances surrounding his removal. 
Both were temporarily trans­ferred to other stations the night before the murder. One, Floyd Newsum, told Lane that the deputy chief of the Fire Department told him the transfer order had come from the Police Department. 
According to Redditt, "The FBI never talked· to me about this even <hough I told my story to anyone willing to answer." Newsum says he has never been questioned by a )flw enforcement agency about his removal either. 
Arthur Murtagh, a former FBI 
---l 
·agents in the· Atlanta office "liter­ally jumped for joy'' when they learned King had been assassin­ated. He said the FBI intelligence squad in Atlanta--King's home town--was assigned "to somehow or other get King, to bring him down, break him or destroy him." 
After the murder, Lane says, the 
-same Atlanta intelligence squad was assigned by Hoover to head the investigation. "My superiors, both in the Atlanta bureau and Washington," Murtagh told PNS, "washed out leads suggesting a right-wing conspiracy." 
"Had a more thorough investiga­tion been conducted by the FBI, I believe links would have been established between the King assassination and the Kennedy murders--both those of JFK and RFK," he added. 
Agents provocateur 
_ In an interviewwith ONS, Redditt pointed to another area he thought should be investigated. He says he learned after the assassination that the Memphis police had heavily infiltrated a black militant organi­zation called the Invaders that was directly responsible for King's return to Memphis. Newsday's Payne has reported that police and FBI informants may have played a part in the violence. The Invaders had organized the disruption of a massive Memphis march led by King a week earlier, launching a riot that killed one, injured scores and led to 238 arrests. After the violence, appar­ently intended by the militant group to discredit King, the non­violent leader vowed to return to prove he could still lead a peaceful demonstration. • Newsday has reported that. ac­cording to-a former leader of the Invaders, a Memphis policeman who had infiltrated the group "was one of the most provocative mem­bers of the Invaders," very active 

agent in Atlanta, has stated that in planning, confrontations. 
................................. 
: -'fJMM -P-ARTY STORE _: :oPEN: MON -SAT 9 am -11 pm! : SUNDAY 12 noon-11 pm· : :· COLD BEER, PACKAGE UQUOR,: : WINE, GOURMET FOODS a 
:: 31-14 S. 11 ST. NILES, MICIDGAN • 
·• 1 BLOCK NO OF IND.-MICH. STATE LINEQN U.S. 31•.
·• 
' 


~······························ 


AcaNer in law­
without law schoOl. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­
sible  career.  The Lawyer's Assistant  is able to  do  
work traditionally done by lawyers.  .  
Three months of intensive training  can  g1ve you  

the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose-one of the seven courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. . . 
Since 1970 The Institute for Paralegal Tramtng has placed m'ore than 1600 graduates in law firms, banks and corporations in over 75 cities. 
If you are a senior of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant, we'd like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our rep,resentative. We will visit your campus on THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 Operated by Para-Legal, Inc. 
AC-0035' 
------'·---.·---­



Developmental workshops to be offered by StMary's 
by Louise Enyedy ume clinic, interview prep sessions mmcatea tne students experience Staff Reporter and job search, assist the student the interview through role-playing. in preparing for employment. It enables them to see both sides of 
St. Mary's Development Center hunting. the interview. (CDC) and the Student Affairs The first five workshops are "The Job Search is a seminar on Department are co-sponsoring offered daily at the CDC. The how to conduct a job search, how to eight career development work­remaining three workshops will be locate job leads and how it puts you 
shops this semester. scheduled after the October break. 
in charge of the job hunt and how to "The workshops are designed to make you stand out among the
Although O'Neil advised taking 

cover all stages of career devel­thousands of students looking for
the workshops in the following
opment," said Karen O'Neil, di­jobs," she explained.
order,a student can attend one 
rector of the Career Uevelopment The workshops, which are a
workshop or all in any order. 
Center. "We want to help students combination of lecture and dis­to be in charge of their own lives, to The Decision-Making Workshop cussion, are open to all students know what options are open to trains the student to make deci­from both St. Mary's and Notre them. We are equipping them with sions, thus providing a basic foun­Dame campuses. To sign up for dation in one's life. "It is very
life skills in decision-making and these workshops. put your name on skill identification," she added. important for a student to Jearn to the sheets outside the CDC office If The first four workshops helll the make her own decisions," O'Neil you cannot attend a workshop when student to research herself. These said. it is offered, students should let the workshops include decision-making The Values Clarification Work­office know. If enough students are values clarification, information shop helps the student discover unable to attend at the scheduled and skill identification. The last what her work values are. "What times. additional workshops will be 
four, assertiveness training, res-i:; important to you after gradu­offered. 
ation? Money? Advancement? O'Neil and Dean of Student Prestige? These are your work Affairs Kathleen Rice organize and values," she explained. teach the workshops as well as train the leaders. The leader's are
The Information Workshop

Concert tix to be allotted to halls 
Diane Benjamin. McCandless Hallshows how to gather and evaluate director; Mary Laferty. Reginainformation. "It will teach you how

Ginger McGowan receive preferential treatment. "If one hall wants too many Hall director; Mary Fran Bert Le
to locate sources of information for
Staff Reporter All seats will be in Sections 7 and tickets. we'll set a limit since we're Mans Hall director; Dr. Suzanne
the job hunt," O'Neil s'id.
8, and are located in the highest trying to provide service for all the Areson, director of counseling;
The Skill Identifcation Workshop 

Student Union will distribute padded seat sections. Tickets will halls.·' McCabe stated. He per-Gail Ritchie, assistant director of
is designed for liberal arts student~
blocks of lower arena seats after the sell for the regular lower arena rate . sonally felt that no more than 200 who are told by media counseling and Jean Gorman, direc­
the that

october break for the Doobie Bro­of $6.50 and non-refundable. tickets will be allotted per hall. wr ot student aid.
there are no jobs available. The
thers concert among the halls in a ''These tickets are not the best Currently. the new policy does For an introduction of CDC.
workshop helps the students find 
new ticket policy aimed at "saving uut they are very, very good," not extend to off-campus students. O'Neil has also designed an Intake
out what skills they have. O'Neil
the time and pain of camping out," McCabe stressed. He explained "There is no program for off­Program to provide students with
said.
according to Student Union Ticket that the people who do not want to campus right now," McCabe said .. information on various jobs, on
The Assertiveness Training

Manager Chris McCabe camp out will still have the oppor­However, he noted that Student their outlook, on earnings and
Workshop teaches the student how
McCabe explameo that ~sign-up tunity to obtain the best seats. Union has no more responsibility on required background. Students 
to speak up for herself. "It helps
sheets will be posted in the halls by mce it sells the tickets to the halls. are encouraged to participate in the 
you to know the difference between
the president or a responsible hall Vhether halls allow off-campus Intake Program before attending
assertiveness and non-assertive­
representative. When the halls pay Applies to all halls ;"1dents to place their names on the workshops. The CDC is 
ness; aggressiveness and non-ag­
for the designated number of the hall list will be up to the open from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
gressiveness without offending
tickets on their lists, Student Union discretion of each hall. Monday through Friday. The
others' rights," O'Neil com-
will place the hall names in a The new ticket policy, credited to The Student Union expects to center is located in the Student
mented.
lottery. Student Union director Ken Ricci re-:eive approximately 1600 tickets Affairs wing of Le Mans Hall. "The hall that come out first will and Walt Ling, will apply to all for the Doobie Brothers concert. Beginning after the mid-sem.~s­ter break, the Resume Clinic will be
get the first 100 tickets," McCabe 
halls. McCabe acknowledged that Si:1ce the Student Union, instead of said. He stressed' that the lottery some halls, such as Flanner or a promoter. is presenting the offered. The students learn how to 
write the rough draft of a resume in
selection process will be completely Grace, will probably request more concert. McCabe believes that if arbitrary, so that no hall will tickets than others. the t.cket demand is high" ''we a work session. 
Following the resume •writing,

could probably secure more sec­
"The Interview Prep Sessions helptions." 
you prepare for and participat• · in

Dorms to be locked 
''This is a big break for the 

interviews," O'Neil said. She
students," McCabe emphasized. and urged students to take advan­

to increase security 
tage of this opportunity. 
by Maureen O'Brien This Sunday the Rockne Memor­McCabe also noted that Student 
Senior Staff Reporter ial will be open from II a.m. to 6 Union will again offer package ­p.m., and will extend its hours deals for Homecoming Weekend on during the vacation to 8 a.m. until Nov. 19-20. the Homecoming 
II p.m. The pool will be open on theme will be ·'Around the WorldAll dormitories will be locked sunday, from I p.m. to 5:30p.m. in Eighty Days" according to
and secured all day during the duration of the October break, and from 7 p.m. to II p.m. The Hof'lecoming Chairman Nancy auxiliary gyms in the ACC will be Budd.
accordin,g to Arthur Pears, director of security .. open until 5 p.m. during break. The package deal includes: a "We hope to lock the dorms up A hall can collect its mail during ticket to the Homecoming Dance 
as soi'Jn as possible,'' Pears said. break if the hall carrier or a held in Stepan Center on Nov. 19, 2 substitute goes to the post office tickets to the miami game and 2
"Female students will be able to use their detex cards to get into and picks up the mail. tickets to the Doobie Brothers their dormitories. Male ~·tudents 
LaFortune Center will be open concert. who are staying for break, r. Jwever next week but may close earlier at Budd stressed that the price and will have to obtain keys fi'om their night, depending on how many number of the package deals hav.! halls in order to get into their students use the facility. not been officially set but approxi­dorms,'' he continued. Most buildings will be opened mately 250 packages will be offered "Dorms will be checked fri­
during the day for the students who at $36 each. The dance will be quently during the day to make are staying for the break. the semi-formal and refreshments will laundry, the Infirmary, the Math
sure the doors are locked," Pears be served. Budd stated that more added. and computer Center, the Music information on Homecoming acti­The dining halls will also be Building and the Cashier's Office, vities will be available after Octo­closed, with dinner on Saturday for instance, will all remain open. ber break. CYRIL RICHARD 
being' the last meal served 'Jefore 
in
the vacation. (The dining halls are staying open an extra da) to accomodate the students w~o are 
THE HEIDLEBURG INN 
attending the Oregon game.) The 
t~ :H I'\ '\ILE~ \llc:ll.
dining halls will begin serv 'lg again on Oct. 24 for the dinner 






/Vaugltf!f
meals. 
*ANNOUNCES BIG SAVINGS* 
The pay . ..cafeteria will maintain the same hours during break, from ON 
7:30 a.m. until 7 p.m. On Saturday, the Huddle will be 
open from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m,, closing PIZZA & PITCHER NITES 

arietta
on Sunday. It will be reopen on Monday from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. until 
EVER.Y TUESDAY & THURSDAY 

TONIGHT!
Saturday, when it will close. It will open again on Oct. 24, at 2 p.m. 
Morris Civic-7:30 pm.
The memorial Library will be 
REDUCED PRICES 

open next week but the hours will be shorter. Beginning Saturday, 
9pm-lam

through Oct. 23, the first and 284-9711 232-6954 Tickets-$7 to $4. second floors of the library will be locked at 5 p.m., but the towers will 
Dail~ II :am-I am Tukt> tht• Quit·kit• tu remain open until 10 p.m., except tht· lh·idlt•hur!! on Sunday October 17, when the library will be closed. 
ilo \ •• 4o • "l • I " • t .II: "'I t I ~ l A:' I l o . . ·'··~~-'·' \\ \~\~~\\'~~·' 

the observer 
There was a little moppet I saw at lunch 

today, and the sight of her made bells ring 
in the church towers of my heart. She is, 
she says, my special girl, sophomore and 
red of hair; one whose name I would like to 
register at Tiffany's, if I had the money to 
buy her jewels at Christmas. If I were 
allowed to keep her, I would, though that 
would be as impossible as trapping the 
sunbeams playing games with the glass of 
unicorns, or taking home the moonlight 
surfacing the darkness of the campus lakes 
at midnight. Besides, the care I give to 
creatures consists mostly in getting them 
rabies' shots and'scratching them behind 
the ears. Moppets would never bel content·· 
eating Prime Variety and sleeping on 
newspapers at the foot of my bed. 
Moppets, I think, are really nifty people; 

I've always been in love with one or 
another of them. I should think of them as 
daughters, I suppose, and as playmatJes of 
a 'Children's Hour, as grave Alice and 
laughing Allegra were playmates to old 
Longfellow, though I think whiskers tended 
to make old Longfellow sentimental: 
Do you think, 0 blue-eyed banditti, Because you have scaled the wall, Such an old mustache as I am Is not a match for you all? 
I have you fast in my fortress, And will not let you depart, But put you into the dungeon In the round-tower of my heart. 

King Lear, also an old mustache, was not the least bit sentimental, though I doubt that Lear, at his blandest and most redeemed, ever winked as flirtatiously at his brood as I have winked at mine. Of course King Lear didn't have as much reason for winking, except in those final hours when he based all his hopes on Cordelia. 
Corrie, let's away to prison 

·we too alone will sing like birds 
i' th' cage; . 
When thou dost ask me a blessing, 
I'll kneel down 
And ask of thee forgiveness; so· 
we'll live, 
And pray, and sing, and tell old tales, 
and laugh 
At gilded butterflies ..... 
.....And take upon's the mystery of 
things 
As if we were God's spies ... 
1 have been in iove with moppefs since 

before the days when I was in love with 
moppets' mothers. Today I saw one of. 
them at lunch; and alone, by myself, could 
have sung from pure happiness like a bird 
in the cage. 
Of course none of them are moppets, really; they are women, and the beardless chaps who date them are Notre Dame men. They tell you that, and they tell each other that, and I guess they really mean it, and none of them are moppets at all. Moppets and urchins are the tiny folk who come to Mass at Keenan at eleven o'clock on Sunday morning; it embarrasses men and women to be sentimentalized like munch­kins, as though they were trudging the acres of the Emerald City, singing, "Ding, Dong, the witch is dead." 
I think of Yeats in Ireland making a prayer for his infant daughter. Once more the storm is howling, and 
half hid 
Under this cradle-hood and coverlid 
My child sleeps on ... 
I have walked and prayed for this 
young child an hour 
And heard the sea-wind scream upon 
the tower ... 
Imagining in excited reverie 

That the future years had come, 
Dancing to a frenzied drum, 
Out of the murderous innocence of 
the sea. 

Looking on the beauty of young men and women; hearing already, like a Hasidic milkman, the Sunrise, Sunset-notes of their marriage song; saddened by the constantly quick change of April bud into November leaf; mourning the failed beauty, the lost innocence, of my own generation; understanding that the future years are now at hand; in order to appear detached, in speaking and writing, from my fear of the dangers that wait, I, too, sometimes play the role of sentimental mustache. I confine these young adults to the whimsey of nurseries, gaming -with them as urchins and moppets who can still be prayed for like sleepin~ children, able to be protected by a father s watching from the ni~ht winds that come from the ~ea. 
T~rsday, ~· 14, 1'76 


letters to a lonely God 
A Prayer for Jeannie 
· 
I 
Yeats in his poem asks beauty for his , 
daughter; begging beauty, yet fearing 
beauty of the wrong kind: 
May she be granted beauty, and yet not Beauty to make a stranger's eye distraught ... 
In courtesy I'd have her chiefly learned; Hearts are not had as a gift, but hearts are earned By those that are not entirely beautiful... 
May she become a flourishing hidden tree , That all her thoughts may like the linnet be, And have no business but dispensing 
round Their magriaminities of sound ... Oh, may she live like some green 
laurel Rooted in one dear perpetual place. 
And may her bridegroom bring her to a house Where all's accustomed, ceremonious ... 

_.ltiiiiiMtRfi.IIIRPJI!t.\II:Afllll•lllll!!.~,...~_.::::::::::::::::~:~::::'i$.:::::::'JS.'$~:~:::8:::::::::::::::::::::!-;.::'X?.:s::::s-;.::::~:;z:;:;:;:.~~=='S:='K-:"«:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::'K-::s::'i-:::::::::~:... 
Magnificent Meals i~ Michiana l~l~
1 The St. Mary's Dining Hall I 
:i B~ Tim· O'Reile~ 
~~ The animals in the dining halls havei been rattling their bars louder than usual,\~ while the food becomes increasingly more 
~ 
• mysterious. Unfortunately, neither the ; · transportation nor the money are available to facilitate a civilized dinner. Hope is not
~~ 
~-: lost, however, since the St. Mary's Dining §: Hall off~~s ~f chanhge ...~?f s~be.n_ery fanhd
~: persona ttles, 1 1 not t e 4tgestt 11 tty o t e ~: food. ··~ The doors are flung open at 4:.30, with ~ about a ten minute wait for those in the :::: back of the line (sorry, no reservations ~~ accepted). Sometimes shortages crop up 
later in the evening. so it is best to arrive 
I
~ early, according to the women in line. "If ~ they have anything good at all, the people ~ will glut themselves on it quickly," noted ;~. one veteran line stander. ··~ After passing the somewhat inhospitable ;~ hostess, and grabbing a tray (either dull ;:;: red or tan, terribly unmatched colors), the ~ prophesy seemed to be true. The bowl of ;::: cole slaw held more water than anything ~l.l~. else, but abundant quantities of food 
awaited on the rest of the meal assembly ~~ line (a line terribly misarranged; small ~l~ salads first, then dessert, entree, soup and ··~ finally large salads). ' Perhaps the surplus 
of available cuisine indicated its quality. 
The small bowls of cottage cheese(large curd) with peach slice and crumbled blocks of fruity jello were ordinary at best. The salad bar featured three dressings, par­mesan cheese, and garbanzo beans, plus lettuce that packed more of a thud than crunch in every chew. The soup was notable only for the interesting ways in 
· which the light reflected off the layer of 
• grease on top. So much for the opening . . co!Jrses. :::: The entrees of tonight's repast, to be :;~ generous, offered little more solace to the :;=: palate. By a consensus of two to one, with ;:;: two undecided, those at our table decided ;:;: that one of the dishes was meat loaf. After ;~ finishing as much as he could of his ~*-portion, however, special guest gourmet 


~~!=~O'Keefe The L~~~~d~~e~~;~:~fu~~~k 
Tonight 
American League Playoff (8:15 p.m., Channel 28): Paul Splitoroff will probably go against Ken Holtzman in the fifth and deciding game between the Kansas City Royals and New York Yankees. Keith Jackson, Howard Cosell and Reggie Jackson report live from Yankee Stadium. 
1 
Sb Characters In Search of an Author (8:00 p.m., 34): A _fine cast (John Houseman, 
•veriy Todd and Andy Griffith) performs 

Reverend Robert Griffin 
Oh, Jeannie; moppet, you were; women, you are, whom I have tucked as a child in my heart. I make a prayer for you, and for all those others, moppets and urchins alike, children of the heart; sons and daughters prayed for by fathers who hear the sea winds scream. In the noonday and the darkness, I see you all, God's spies, taking on themselves the mystery of things; and there is a singing within me as though robins had discovered rose~ after winter. 
May the summer never leave your face. May your moods be a summer mood, gentle like butterflies, patient like friendly spiders building bridges where the sun can meet the dew. 
May your friendships be like the strength of oak trees constantly green, refreshed by happy streams. 
When grief is a guest at your table, may peace be her companion; may you be gracious in their presence, recognizing hoth as friends from christ. 
May you drink often of wine filled with laughter, and with light, as though the sun had left her candles at a joyful shring. 
May your children neve·r leave you lonely, and may God be more dear to you than your nearest child. 
And may death, when it comes to you at evening, seem as sweet as the singing of birds. 
Moppet Jean, sophomore and red of hair, I hope my love and prayers do not embarrass you. In caring for you, and for those others, urchins and moppets, men and women, whom, through you, I love and praise, I would not usurp the role of a father who has his own prayers to make for you. Have I told you lately that I love you? Perhaps so; but before the days and miles of vacation come between us, I wanted to tell you, and them, just one last time. 
How many love your moments of glad grace, And love your beauty with love false or true; But one man loves the pilgrim soul in you, And loves the laughter of your summer face. 
God bless you, Jeannie. May the urchins and moppets be blessed. 
Mike Griffith changed his vote from pro-meat loaf to undecided, so it joined the great Notre Dame tradition of mystery meats. Its distinctive texture and appear­ance cannot be overlooked, however. 
The Spanish omlettes afforded no improvement in the situation. In fact, in the verbatum verbiage of special guest gourmette Elizabeth White, "It stunk." A cold, scrambled egg omlette shed of the outer layers of its eggy skin, it was covered with day old taco sauce. The peppers in the sauce caused Mme. White to blurt out, "It tastes like the meat loaf looks," shortly before she dashed to the bathroom. 
The baked chicken did redeem matters somewhat, wearing some good spices in the places that it did have spices. The meat survived the cooking well, and proved to be the best overall entree of the night. The plate also preferred a portion of rice drowned in chicken gravy, a concoction that equally special gourmette Happy Reynolds described as "completely lacking any flavor." Well, Happy, you can't have everything. 
If nothing else, this whole scene made that unique St. Mary'sdelection,the do-it­
llll 

~;1; 
·:·: 
~.·1~.·1 
;:;:
~.111. 

~:_;::l:
...l:. 
@ 
:;:; :;:: :;:; ·•·· 
~~~~ 
:;:; 
\~1~ 
.;.; 

:·:· yourself ice cream cones, even more ~~~~ appealing. Coming in your choice of ;~;~ chocolate or vanilla, there are two rna-:;:; chines that make cones of the Tastee-:;:; Freez variety. Both flavors are good, :;:; though vanilla has a tendency to melt in ~;~; your cone before it ever gets to your :;:; mouth. Either way, the cones are a fine :;:: way to finish the meal, or if things are ::;: really bad, become the entire meal. ;:;: 
For those who get tired of standing in ~;: line and eating amidst sweat pants and ::;: sweaty bodies, or just want to escape c::: eating with the same people, St. Mary's is l~; the way to go. With smaller tables and a :;:; generally more convivial atmosphere, just :;:; the change of pace of eating on the west :;:; side of U.S. 31 can make the trek ;:;: worthwhile. ;:;; 
In all fairness, it must be confessed that :;:; St. Mary's dinners usually do not sub-;;~; merge the standards of this night's fiasco. :;:; Institutional food will never escape the :;:; taste of institutional food, but night in and :;:; night out, St. Mary's does a better job than :;:; their counterparts at Notre Dame. If only :;:; as an experiment, the gourmet goodies at ::;: St. Mary's do deserve a chance. :;:; 
play-within-a-play. A must for GP majors, who are probably the only people around who can understand it. 
Tomorrow Night Vll!e Presidential Debate (8:30, all stations): Robert Dole and Walter Mon­dale meet in the unprecedented debate between candidates for the nation's second-highest office. Hopefully, these debates will provide some substantive and worthwhile issues to replace the ridiculous series of gaffes that have been the major issues of the campaign so far. 
World Series (11:30 a.m., 16): The fall ~;:: classic begins today in Cincinnati with the ~;:: defending champi?n Red fav~red over the ~~ as yet undetermmed Amencan League t::~ champ. The second game will air i::~ tomorrow night at 7:00 p.m. On Tuesday :;:: the Series will move either to New York or ~: Kansas City, where games three, four and i::l five (if necessary) will be played on ~ Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday ~;; nights. May the best team win. ;~ CoUege Football (2:45 p.m., 28): This game between Alabama and Tennessee probably looked promising at the begin­
· (continued on page 7) 
~•••RIIIIIIISIIIIIRallllllliii:A:II.~~~~:c:~~lfd~~~~~~~~~~Sd~~~~R,~tq~~-==~;;~:;uu~· 

The Entertainment Week 
(continued from page 6) ning of the season, but both ~earns currently sport uncharacteristically poor 3-2 records. Both the Volunteers and the Tide are not as good as they have been in recent years, but a victory here could be meaningful in the long run. 
Sunday Notre Dame Highlights(9:30 a.m., 16): Paul Hornung and Lindsay Nelson describe the action in this not-so-instant replay of the Irish victory over the Oregon Ducks. Having Babies(8:00 p.m., 28): I'm not really sure what the tone of this made-for­TV movie will be, but every indication points to a kind of curious hybrid between soap opera and documentary, combining emotional personal stories with real-life footage of the delivery of a child. 
Monday Sherlock Holmes In New York (8:00p.m., 16): Holmes (Roger Moore) and Watson (Patrick Macnee) are transplanted to turn-of-the-century Manhattan in this masterfully self-satirizing version of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's tales of the super­sleuth of all time. Monday Night Football (8:00 p.m., 28): The New York Jets travel to Foxboro to take on the New England Patriots. The Jets upset the Buffalo BiiJs last week while the Pats were losing to the lions after upsetting Miami, Pttsburgh and Oakland on the three previous Sundays. In short, anything can happen in this one. 
Wednesday Madame Butterfly (8:00p.m., 34): Mirella Freni plays the Poor Butterfly in this filmed adaptation of one of Puccini's finest tragic operas. The story concerns a young Japanese woman who falls in love with an American sailor, Capt. B. F. Pinkerton. Pinkerton marries Butterfly only to aban­don her when his ship leaves Japan. Butterfly remains faithful and waiting for three years with their little son, only to have Pinkerton return with an American wife. 
Thursday The Day oftbe Jackal (7:00p.m., 16): Fred Zinneman's film of Frederick Forsyth's novel about an assassin whose target is Charles de Gaulle is as chilling and taut as any movie in quite some time. Edward Fox is very convincing as the cold-blooded and scientific Jackal. 
ON THE SCREEN 
Forum I: The Bad News Bears Forum II: The Killer Inside of Me Boiler House I: Porn Porn Girls Boiler HOuse II: Buffalo Bill and the Indians Colfax: Special DeUvery River Park: From Noon Till Three Scottsdale: A Matter of Time State: Burnt Offerings and Massacre at Central High School 

Joe Savage, about whom entertainment columnist David O'Keefe proclaimed "This 
is talent," appears at Shula's this weekend. ON STAGE the songs that gained him the title, not a plastic act tailored to the tastes of Las Vegas nightclub goers. I hope this concert
Earth, Wind and Fire (Friday, 8:00 p.m., 
is a little less hyped-up than the last. ­ACC): "Getaway", "Shining Star", Joe Savage(Thru Sunday night at Shula's):"Reasons" and more from one of the best Now this is talent. Joe Savage is a Lasdisco-soul groups around. 
Vegas nightclub performer who does a Elvis Presley (Wednesday, 8:00 p.m., song and dance with ths 21-foot boa ACC): Elvis returns to South Bend, but constrictor. On top of that, he looks like a with what? His concert two years ago cross between Kojak and the Crusher. excoted a lot of people in anticipation but This is for real. In any event, parental disappointed many in experience. Elvis is discretion is advised. Thisshowis a must King, perhaps, but the faithful go to hear for boa constrictor freaks. 




WAKE UP THE ECHOES! 
At the Notre Dame Bookstore. 

Music of Notre Dame 
Christmas with the Notre Dame Glee Clus. Memorable renditions of the music of Christmas, superbly recorded in Stereo. JPJ 1953.................................................$3.95 
Wake Up the Echoes. A New recordir1<1 of Notre Dame's favorite school songs recorded bythe tamed Notre Dame Glee Club in Stereo. JPJ 8653._. ..............................................$3.95 
Music of Notre Dame. One side of this Stereo Album features the Notre Dame Glee Club and Notre Dame band combined in a medley of popular Notre Dame music. The reverse side features the Notre Dame band. NDSS 2001 .............................................$3.95 

The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame. The story of Notre Dame Football as told by Ara Parseghian and the stars, coaches and personnel of Notre Dame. Produced by the National Broadcasting System. A two record album plus a 12 page picture history book of the Fighting Irish. 15G1 ...................................................$9.95 
The University of Notre Dame 
A Portrait ofIts History and Campus 
-r•C hn,unl tu 

teton·. 
. \ ( '1\n M1k k • ollht ·.\It111111i ·~ ~" ! "'" '""'' ·~ '""' I""'" 
' 




15G2 ONWARD TO VICTORY by James E Armstron<1. A chronicle of the Alumni of Notre 

Dame · · 1842·1973.. ............. .. .........$8.95 15G3 THE HUMANE IMPERATIVE by Theodore 

M. Hesburgh, C. S.C. A challenge for the year 2000 
..................................... ... .. .. ...... ..$5.95 
15G4 THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME by Thomas J. Schlereth. A portrait of its History and Campus, profusely illustrated.... .. .. $25.00 In paperback.........................................$7.95 
• 
1SG5 SHAKE DOWN THE THUNDER by Wells Twombly. The official biography and legend of Frank Leahy............................................$8.95 
15G6 A COACH'S WORLD by Richard "Digger" Phelps and Larry K ieth. An inside look at big time college basketball as it could only be played under the Golden Dome........ .. .............$1.95 
15G7 WE REMEMBER ROCKNE by Jon D. 
McCallum & Paul Castner. The story of Rockne and 
his legacy to Notre Dame...........................$7.95 
15G8 KNUTE ROCKNE YOUNG ATHLETE by Guernsey Van Riper, Jr.............................$2.95 
15G9 PHILEMON'S PROBLEM by James Tunstead Burtchaell, C.S.C. The daily dilemma of the Christian. Paperback only..........................$2.95 
15G10 WAKE UP THE ECHOES by Ken Rappo. port. The story of Notre Dame Football..........$8.95 
ISG11 FUNDAMENTAL IRISH HISTORY FROM EARLIEST DAYS by Edmund J. Murray, Ph.D. ...........................................................$10.00 
ISG12 IN THE KINGDOM OF THE LONELY GOD by Robert Griffin......................................$2.95 
15G13 THE GLORY OF NOTRE DAME edited byFred Katz. 22 great stories of Fighting Irish Football SPECIAL PRICE.....................................$1.95 
NEW RELEASE: THE NOTRE DAME BEFORE AND AFTER THE GAME COOKBOOK edited by Flo Yeandel. ...........................................$6.~5 
Shake Down the Thunder! 
TI'II''Jfh:... Boc:qoii7T>t01"-Xrro..tw\ 
~~.~~.~.~eatw 



•.j,.' 

8 
the observer 




Action 

Express 
Action Express sponsored by the Ombudsman opt.:.n from 9:30 to 5:00 Mon.-Fri. 283-7638 
Q. What are the hours of the Cashier's office? A Tht> Cashier's office is open Monday thru Friday from 9 a.m. ­11 55 a.m. and from 2 p.m.-4:55 ~.m. 
Q What are the hours for skatingl A You can skate at the ACC on MWF from 12 to 1 for free. On F-nday you can skate from 7 to 9 for $.50. On Saturday you can skate from 2 to 4 and from 7 to 9 for free. 
Q. What is the phone number for the Farley motel? A Kit Baron is in charge of the Farley Motel and the number is 7180. 
Q. How can I get to the airport from N.D. if I have no car? -\. You can call the airport limousine service whose number is 
2. {4-3682 or you can call a cab such as Courtesy Cab 233-4040 or ::>(}uth Bend Yellow Cab 233-9333. 
Any questions? Drop them off at the Ombudsman Office on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center or call 281-7638. 

Alumni express political views 
Four Notre Dame alumni prom­inent in politics and journalism give their views in the current issue of Notre Dame Magazine, the Univer­sity's alumni publication. 
Responding to eight questions on topics ranging from the impact of pack journalism on campaign cov­erage to the necessity of candidates hedging on certain issues are John 
T. Elson '53, a senior editor of Time magazine; Pete Flaherty '51, mayor of Pittsburgh, Pa.; Thomas 
L. Judge '57, governor of Montana, and Paul A. Theis '48, President Ford's former chief speechwriter now deputy undersecretary of agri­culture for congressional and public affairs. The candid answers of the four men give an unusual perspective on how politicians and journalists view themselves, each other and their work. 
On the matter of pack journal­ism, for example, Judge and Theis believe it is a problem while Flaherty and Elson express the opposite opinion. 
"Too often the words of a respected newsman become the 'conventional wisdom' among seg­ments of the press corps within hours after their publication," Theis charges. "This situation results...from a shortage of respon­sible porch climbers in the press corps who truly dig for news instead ofaccepting what is handed to them." 
On the other hand, Elson says, '"It seems to me that the correspon­dents are acutely aware of the charge. I certainly don't see many examples these days of reporters playing follow the leader. There are plenty of times when Dave Broder of The Washington Post. say, and c?lumnists Evans and Novak pro­vtde such differing views of the same event that it almost seems as if they were covering different stories." 
''Time's political reporters, for example, often have strong and cvnflicting views of politicians and political events. We have corres­pondents who are enormously im­pressed by Carter and correspon­dents who remain suspicious of the man and his motives." 
While Elson. Flaherty and Judge believe the press does an'-.adequate 
job of revealing presidential candi­dates to the public, Theis thinks otherwise. 
The former White House aide says there are at least two reasons for the failure of the press. First, most candidates' staffs "will not level with newsmen about what the candidate is really like" and, second. Theis·says, reporters often are reluctant to write adverse stories because they fear their sources will dry up within the candidate's organization. 
Often in disagreement, the group surprisingly was in consen­sus on at least one point. Under certain circumstances each be­lieves it is justifiable for a candi­date to hedge on an issue.' 
''Politicians should be frank and honest in their campaigns," Gov. Judge notes. "Until you get into office, however, you cannot know how you will deal with every situation.'' 
Elson adds that he can envision situations when full disclosure might be difficult. "Suppose a politician has strong views on a 

Warren Commission overlooks actions of an Oswald look-alike 
by Dick RusseU Pacific News Service 
The existence of an "identical twin'' for Lee Harvey Oswald--liv­ing here and arrested and released on a federal gun charge shortly before the assassination of JohnF. Kennedy--has been confirmed by a former agent for the Treasury Department's Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms unit. 
With a congressional probe of the JFK assassination in the offing, Frank Ellsworth, now a Regional Public Affairs officer in that agen­cy's Dallas bureau, broke a 12-year official silence to describe "an absolute dead-ringer for Oswald" active at that time with the right­wing Minuteman organization. 
"I have a vague recollection that this man was questioned about the assassination, but not by me," Ellsworth told PNS. "Possibly nobody paid much attention be­cause Oswald was in custody. We weren't looking for a fugitive." 
While refusing to divulge the individual's name and passing off the incident as probably "sheer coincidence," Ellsworth admitted that the look-alike still resides in Dallas. 
He also said that a number of state, federal and local officials had been aware of the man's existence 
after  the  assassination.  Yet  no  
mention  of  him  appears  in  the  
Warren  Report  or  any  of  the  
unclassified  file  material  at  the  

tough issue like busing or abortton, suppose also that, if elected, he must vote on a bill that is in accord with his views but otherwise is seriously flawed. In that situa­tion," Elson says, "I can imagine a conscientious politician having trouble being totally candid with the voters about his intentions." 
Other topics which the panel discussed include the rise of non­political or nonestablishment cand­idates, the desirability of charisma the future of democracy, media distortions, the necessity of com­promise and improvements in the American political system and press coverage of politics. 
Notre Dame Magazine is pub­lished five times per year for friends and alumni of the Univer­sity. The magazine, which has been designated one of the top 10 university alumni magazines for the past four years by the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education, was cited by News· week this year for ''achievement in alumni publication content relating the university to public affairs." 

Pill has no effect on sex determination of children 
BOSTON [AP] -Researchers say 
taking the pill has no apparent 
effect on which sex children will 
turn out to be, everi though earlier 
reports said women who use oral 
contraceptives are more apt to have 
girls. 
Harvard researchers say they 
found of 6.109 children born to 
Boston area women who took the 
pill, the babies were divided almost 
evenly between boys and girls. 
Their findings contradict a wid­
ely publicized report two years ago 
by a team of Hungarian doctors. 
The Hungarians said of 560 
infants born to women who had 
taken the pill, 46 percent were 
male. and of the 170 babies born to 
women who had been on the pill 
more than two years, only 34 
percent were boys. 
The report was published in 
1974 in the Lancet, a respected 
British medical journal. The 
Harvard rebuttal was scheduled to 
appear in today's issue of the New 
England Journal of Medicine. 
, , J'pe latest. study was directed by · Dt.' Kenneth J. Rothman at the 
.... .•"'... ' .. _.. ......... -~ .... 
Harvard School of Public Health. 
"Their results don't conform 
with ours," Rothman said in an 
interview. "We had a much larger 
sampling." 
Rothman said other scientists 
have speculated the Hungarians' 
findings were simply a quirk that 
resulted because the women they 
studied were not representative of 
pill takers at large. 
In their study, the Harvard group 
concluded; "It appears that oral 
contraceptives have no bearing on 
the sex of subsequent offspring.'' 
Of the group they looked at, 3,064 
of the new-born babies were boys 
and 3,045 were girls. 
They said it did not make any 
difference how long the women had 
been taking the pill or whether they 
had stopped and they started 
again. 
Although the Hungarian study 
received extensive publicity, Rot­
hman said it did not appear to have 
much impact on women's attitudes 
toward the pill. 
"I don't think very many people , believed it," he said . 

National Archives. 
Almost from the moment of Oswald's arrest, numerous wit­nesses claimed to have seen the alleged assassin driving a car, though Oswald didn't drive. They had also seen him in a gun shop, at a rifle range and cashing a check in a grocery store. 
But while the person they saw gave his name as "Oswald" and apparently matched the description perfectly, the Warren Commission concluded there was overwhelming evidence that the real Oswald was elsewhere at those times. The witnesses were discounted as 
""confused" or "mistaken." 
For years. the commissions's critics have speculated that an Oswald look-alike may have been used by conspirators to imperson­ate and possibly help from Oswald­-blazing a trail of misleading evidence to implicate him as a lone assassin. 
A Dallas deputy sheriff, for example, gave chase to a man who ran from the Texas School Book Depository and climbed into a Rambler station wagon a few minutes after the assassination, later positively identifying him as Oswald. But according to police sources cited in the Warren Report, Oswald was already far away, riding a bus toward his home. 
Now Ellsworth confirms that witnesses who believed thay saw · Oswald target-practicing at a Dal­las rifle range--some of the more incriminating sightings--were actually seeing his "twin." 
"I do remember two instances where Oswald was supposed to have been at someone's house in North Dallas, and I was able to ascertain after the assassination that it was actually the look-alike,'' Ellsworth said ''These were times where witnesses thought they saw Oswald in the company of several Minutemen. 
"One of these times did involve a group of Minutemen at a , rifle range. Several of their names came up in my conversations with him, and I'd noted at the time that he was out shooting· with them." 
Double-take 
The Oswald look-alike first came to Ellsworth's attention ''sometime in the summer of 1963," when the agent began tracking him to try to determine his connection with local arms smugglers. That fall, Ells­worth arrested him on "one of the gun violations," then released him on bond a short time before the fateful Kennedy trip to Dallas. 
Immediately after the assassina­tion, when Ellsworth was called to question Oswald about the rifle found in his supposed assassin's nest, the agent first believed that is was the same man. 
a  police  interrogation  room  to  
,..  


"Oswald was sitting in a chair about 10 feet from the doorway when I entered, "Ellsworth re­membered. "All I could see was headlines that I'd just turned loose the man who killed the President. 
"When Oswald spoke, I realized they were two different people. But they had identical build, weight, coloring, facial features and hair. They could have passed for each other." 
Ellsworth refused to speculate on whether the man he'd arrested might have known of Oswald. He did say the fellow "claimed to have done some arms smuggling in and out of Mexico," where Oswald reportedly traveled in September 1965. 
While the real Oswald was apparently a leftist and member of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee, !;is "twin" was an equally commit­ted right-winger. 
In a Warren Commission inter­
view with Ellsworth dated April 16, 
1964, there is no mention of the 
look-alike. But the interview does 
credit> Ellsworth with several reve­
lations "of value": 
At the time of the assassination 
of the Presided, there was almost 
no information available to the 
government concerning the activi­
ties of Dallas Cubans and other 
groups in illegal armaments. 
An organization known as the Minutemen is the right-wing group in Dallas most likely to have been associated with any effort to assas­sinate the President. 
The Minutemen are closely tied to Gen. Edwin Walker and H. L. Hunt. 
Uhe 




fPinOjammet 
CREATIVE HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES 
RElAXING ATMOSPJIER.E' 
·FREE HAm ANALYSIS RK RET All.. CENTER 

1637 LWW 
So. Bend 
232-6622 
Appt. only. 



Pizza King 

We invite you to try our delicious pizza' hot sandwiches and tasty 
salads. BEER Special Monday nights. Pitchers of Budweiser $1.50 
Michelob $1.75 Tues. nite after 4pm--$1.00 off 
on all large pizzas. 
... 130 Dixyway North 272-6017 
the observer 
9 


Injuries, sickness plague campaign 
WASHINGTON AP-The trick, it seems, is exercise. Eating right. And, for one of the candidates, three cigars a day. 
Week in and week out, Jimmy Carter, Bob Dole and Walter Mondale criss-cross this country, hop-scotching, from city to city, talking, shaking hands, trying to remenibernames, faces, answering questions, making speeches, early, late. campaigning almost constant­
ly. 
Gerald Ford, as President, 
spends more time at home. But in 
recent weeks, he has been travel­
ing too. Down the Mississippi on 
the steamboat. Across the South 
by car. To California and the 
Southwest. And on Tuesday and 
yesterday to New York and New 
Jersey. 
How do they keep it up? How do 
they stay healthy in spite of it all ? 
No uppers, or downers, say aides of all four candidates. Mondale icans with high blood pressure. Otherwise, none of the four takes as much as a vitamin tablet to keep going, the aides say. · 
It doesn't always work. 
Republican vice-presidential candidate Dole caught cold last week. His aides blamed it on his scheduJe, which begins at dawn and ends at nearly midnight, day after day. Former Texas Gov. John Connally reportedly warned him a couple of weeks ago he was ruining his health with his frantic pace. 
Dole stayed home and nursed the cold. He ventured out to a Republican fund raising affair Tuesday night in tennessee, then came back home to prepare for the vice-presidential debate Friday in Houston, Tex. But there'll be no slow-down in Dole's schedule. From Houston, he tours the Mid­west and then the Pacific North­
we~t. 
Larry Speakes, his press secre­

takes daily medication for hyper­. tary, says Dole takes frequent tension, like 23 million other A mer-catnaps to overcome exhaustion, 
but gets little opportunity for exercise. Reporters and staff members have noted that at the end of a long day he gets testy, blinks a lot and occasionally muffs his lines. 
Dr. Freeman H. Cary, the con­
gressional physician, gave the Kan­sas senator a check-up on Sept. 21 and pronounced hitn in excellent health for ·a person his age and considering his war injuries. Dole is 53. He was wounded in World W~:~r II, losing one kidney, the use of his right arm and hand and the partial use of his left hand. 
Ford and Carter, the Republican r • •d Democratic presidential candi­dates, exercise regularly. Man­dale, 1he D.~:nocratic vice-presiden­ti~~ cand:l'ille, plays tennis when­ever he ~~· s a chance. All try. to scheduk " good night's sleep and eat regula,._ to keep the campaign pace from wearing down their resistance. · 
Carter aides say his routine is better for his health now than it . 

Co-ex tickets often wasted 
by Alica Denefe Staff Reporter 

A large number of co-exchange tickets enabling students to eat dinners at St. Mary's are being picked up but are not being used, according to Co-ex Commissioner Rick Littlefield. This deprives others from using the tickets. 
Both ND and SMC are each allotted 75 tickets daily. Usually most of the tickets are picked up by 2 p.m., but only about 55 are used, explained Littlefield. This results in 20 wasted tickets and other students are "shut out." 
Until now, the policy has been to allow students to obtain co-ex tickets on the day before as well as on the same day that they will be 
used. However, starting tomor­row, students will be_ able to pick up a co-ex ticket only on the day that they wish to use it. 
"Hopefully this will cut down on the number of unused ticikets,'' said Littlefield. If students pick up a ticket the day before, he added, there is a ''good chance'' their plans will change and they will not use the ticket. 
Littlefield is trying to increase the number of tickets allotted to ND students. He speculated that if the number of tickes was increased to 100, then possibly at least 75 students will eat at SMC and equal the number of SMC ~tudents eating at NotreDame dining halls. He explained that SMC students us­usally use all their 75 allotted tickets while ND does not. 
Littlefield hopes that by increas­ing the number of tickets to 100, there will still be some unused 

Hawaiian tour offered1 


by Karen lllnks Staff Reporter 

There is a new option available to students and /acuity of St. Mary' · and Notre Dame who were not iiu•c to sign-up for the senior trip to 
U.S.C. A Hawaiian tour is being planned for Nov. 27 to Dec. 6 by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joe Valley. 
Fr. J .R. Rious C.S.C. is the tour sponsor for Notre Dame and St. Mary's. According to Rious, the tour package, costing $495~00 for 1976 dues paying members and their spouses, and $520.00 for all others, includes round trip jet transportation from Chicago O'Ha­re Airport to Los Angeles, tickets to the U.S.C. football game, transpo­rtation to Disneyland: Knotts Berry Farm, and "new" and "old" Hollywood. 
The tour will depart for Honolulu ot11vw•1day, Nov. 29. tour membe­rs will be greeted with leis and will be then transpoted to Hotel Napu­alani. The excursionists will be given an hawaii orientation briefing and will then be on their own to become acquainted with the nativ­es and enjoy beautiful Hawaii. 
A sightseeing tour of Honolulu Mount Tantalus is scheduled for Tuesday Nov. 30th. 
Wednesday, Dec. 1 through Sunday, Dec. 5 are reserved for individual activities. the Notre Dame Club of St. Joe Valley stresses that there is "lot's to do." Optional sightseeing trips could include the Circle Island Tour, Pearl Harbor, Polynesian Cultural tour,_ or a trip· to one or more of the outer islands. 
No meals are provided on the tour with the exception of one breakfast. Rioux also stated that optional excursions are available but must be arranged by individu­als through local travel agents. 
the plane will depart from Hono­lulu to hicago on Monday, Dec. 6. 
Only sixteen places are availab­le. Students and faculty are urgP.d to make their reservations early. A. deposit of $200.00 per person is required no later than Nov. 1. Checks may be made payable to Hodgeon Travel Service. 
tickets, bt the number of students actually using the co-ex tickets on each campus will be equalized. 
He related that Director of food Services Edmund T. Price is "in tavor ot mcreasing the number of ND co-ex tickets. but until he can speak with SMC Food Services. the plan is still tentative. 
Lunch Co-exchange 
Littlefield also commented on the co-ex lunch program between the North and south dining halls. the two dining halls are allotted a total 25 tickets between them which can be picked up the day before. 
If a student has a need for tickets ·on a regular basis, Littlefield stated that he will arrange for students to pick up tickets every two weeks in stead of every day. He added that the program will be expAnded if a demand is demonstrated. 
Littlefield in addition announc­ed a trial basis dinner co-exchange between dining halls. This _pro­gram, which will begin after the October break, will be operated in 
the  same  fashion  as  the  lunch  
program.  
Littlefield  also  noted  that  

although it is officially stated in the off-campus meal plan that students must eat only at the South dining 
· hall, they are also eligible for co-ex tickets if they wish to eat in the North dining hall. 
All co-ex tickets for both SMC and the two dining halls may be picked up at the Student Union 
. office in La Fortune. 
SUNDAY MASSES (M!Iin 'Church) 
OCTOBER 17,1976 
5:15 p.m. Saturday Rev. Thomas McNally, C.S.C.
9:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. Edward Mal1oy, C.S.C.
1 0 :45 a.m. Sunday Rev. M. Terrance Lally, C.S.C 
.12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
Vespers will be held at 7:15 p.m. in the _Lady thapel. 
B.ev. M. Terrance L:ally, C.S.C. will be celebrant. 
OCTOBER 24, 1976 
5:15p.m. Saturday to be announced 
9:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. John Fitzgerald, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sunday Rev. David T. Tyson, C.S.C. 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
Vespers w!l_lbe ~t 7:15 p.m. in the l.adv Chapel. 
Rev. David T. Tyson,. C.S.C. wll(be atlebrant. 

was during the primaries. when he ate on the run and often ~kipped1meals altogether. Durng the primary campaign, Carter occas­ionally got through the day with a 
quick sandwich in his car. 
Now he travels by c·hartered 
aircraft, and Greg Schne,ders, his 
administrative assistant says "it's 
easier to cat meals in a fairly 
relaxed setting." ' 
"He's very c.rreful about th:" l\' 
he eats," says Schnieders. · 
"He hasn't gained or lost two 
pounds the whole time-unlike some 
Q{ the rest of us." 
In recent weeks, Carter's aides 
have cut back on his schedule. 
"We are keeping the pace of the 
schedule with¢ definite limits to 
avoid exhaustion," Schneiders 
said. The goal is to give Carter six 
or seven hours of sleep a night. 
Because he hasn't c;tepped up his 
travels until recently, Ford has not 
been under the same pressure. 
Most of his campaign trips have 
been on weekends or have been ·short visits during the week. , While he's in Washington, how­
ever, Ford swims 22 laps-about a 
quarter mile-in the White House 
pool. When he's campaigning, he 
often manages to take a swim in a 
borrowed pool. 
In addition, the President exer­cises every morning and does special daily exercises to strength· en his knees, both of which required surgery after cartilages were injured in football and skiing. 
Mondale's doctor says he doc~ 
not have to restrict his activitv 
because of his high blood pressur~. 
Aides say the problem is a mild one. 
He sleeps about six hours a night and gets another hour of sleep every day napping on a day-bed in the forward cabin of his chartered plane. . Francis O'Brien. Mondalc's press secretary says the candidates smokes three cigars a day. O'Brien calls them the "most important 
.thing in hisJ.Iife." 

The White 
~House 
Inn 

ROCK & ROLL WITH THE BEST BANDS IN THE MIDWEST NITEL Y (Except Tues) THIS WEEK: ' FAITH The White House Inn 683-9842 2839 No. 51th St. Niles Take U.S. 31 to Niles, North on_Sl, 3 miles: 



Hans Haus 
210J S.. Mich..... St. ...... 291-5522 

c.... ........... ..... 
.............1..... .....
......._,....
_ 
South SetHI' I F ineat Benquet Room• 
TM Alpine I laverlan "­

WHEN YOlJ' Buy 3 ITEMS 


SCOTTSDALE MALL 
291-3142 
............................ 
MORE AND MORE : 
,,.....,,.,, 
• 
TMII 

• 
lllllfll 

• 
EICIUNS 

• 
TOSTAMS 

• 
TAIIMIS 

• 
TACO HI 

• 
lfU TMO


•
• IMIEGIE TAM IMYTMO 
........TMI : IIEUEIIHII 
...­

1U111SS TAliS, TAIUIIS, RIIUIAS........ ..,..... Mllllf...lll 



Scoreless duals highlight lnterhall. 
by Gas Anderson . _ 
Sports Writer Carrigan and Pat Concannon from a 0-0 tie. Holy Cross, intercepted a pass and to Zahm's 37 but they stopped Keenan doing exceptional jobs. Stanford 18 Holy Cross 0 it looked as if the Hogs might come there and the half ended. 
Last night's interhall football Keenan established the only real Holy Cross was hurt badly with alive but the half soon ended, As play resumed Zahm found saw two of the fiercest defensive drive of the final half being the five turnovers and two early Stan-killing their drive. themselves punting deep in their battles all year as Keenan and sparkling running of Frank Hopke ford scores. The first of four As the second half opened Holy own territory. A bad snap and Grace deadlocked along with Zahm and Mark Mulligan. Led by fumbles was recovered by Stanford Cross lost the ball again and Cavanaugh had the ball on the 10. and Cavanaugh at 0-0. Stanford quarterback Bob Brucale they on thet'r own 21 yard It"ne. They S & d d th 5 d Zahm's defense was solid and
tan.or recovere on e yar
and Holy Cross was a rather one marched deep into Grace territory subsequently marched 79 yards line. Two plays later, QB Dom Cavanaugh was forced to attempt a sided battle as the Studs rolled over but were stopped by the efforts of behind the skilled quarterbacking Guarda bootlegged for Stanford's drop kick that missed. Holy Cross 18-0. the Grace line and forced to give up of Dom Guarda who handed the final score. Zahm went to work with running 
Keenan 0 Grace 0 the ball. ball to Ray Oliu for the last 3-yard Just before the third quarter back Mark Wertzel picking up Dave Betlack, the leading rusher sprint to make the score 6-0. The ended McCrief took over at quar-some grueling inside yardage and 
In a game marred with injuries, for Grace, attempted to bully his extra point attempt fai1ed. terback for Holy Cross and fired the Mark Fallon running brilliantlyKeenan was the first to threaten way out of his own territory but Holy Cross immediately threw an team up for a short spell but the outside. But the Cavanaugh de­but fumbled on Grace's thirty. another Grace fumble gave Keenan interception as they started their Stanford defense was up for the fense led by defensive end Joe They later got the ball back again the ball on Grace's 40 yard line. second series. Ray Oliu took the task. The fourth quarter was dom-Browder held the offensive once on a Grace fumble but once again a The teams then traded intercep-ball 10 yards on the next play for inated by Stanford's defense but they got too deep into their good drive was stifled as the ball tions and Keenan managed to the touchdown. Once again, the their offense could do no more and territory·squirted loose from Frank Hopke. bring the ball inside the 10 yard extra point attempt missed. the game ended Stanford 18, Holy Penalties started to hurt both The second half was defense marker. An attempted field goal Late in the first half Larry Cross o. teams especially when Cavanaugh dominated with linebackers Jim was missed and the game ended in McCrief, the one bright spot for returned a punt to Zahm's 25 yard 
line only to be charged withZahm 6 Cavanaugh 0 clipping. A middle screen to Wert­zel appeared as if it might go forBoth teams came out hitting hard , some yardage but the ball poppedand never let up throughout the loose and Cavanaugh recovered onentire contest. They traded turn­

Duffy returns to ND women 
the 24. The game quickly closed out "' overs on the first two series and 

0-0.

by Eileen O'Grady the start of the season." then punts until Zahm made the 
coach there for seven years and

Women's Sports Editor "I'm not necessarily looking for first real threat of the game which 
racked up an impressive record of

Sally Duffy returns this year for a the player who can score the most, was quickly terminated when they · second season as coach of the but the player who hustles all the 131 wins and 17 losses. fumbled on Cavanaugh's 17 yard Ruggers to play 
Presently at Notre Dame, she iswomen's basketball team. time," described Duffy, "a real in her second year as rectress ofAlthough many interested parti­team player." 

Lewis Hall and is taking courses incipants have already been condi­"Especially with girls, they have the graduate theology departmenttioning for the team for nearly a a tendency to play well only when to broaden her counseling intomonth and a half now, Duffy they have the ball," she said. "I'm what she calls "Christian counsel­officially kicked off the season with looking for the type of player who ing."

passes well, moves well, positions

an organizational meeting last nig­Duffy looks forward to a good
herself well and also plays defense 

ht. 
season for the women. "I feel Iwell."
Described as a "quickie," the have a greater advantage this year 
In terms of overall improvement

meeting explained to women tryout as coach after seeing a lot of them 
for the team, Duffy would like to

procedures for the team and took last year and during the condition­
build on the fundamentals she

applications for manger of the ing program," she commented. 
stressed last year. "I'd like to 

team. The women's season begins Dec. 
develop a little more complex
Duffy would like to see as many 6 and continues on for 13 games to
systems this -year in both offense 

women as possible come out for the Feb. 22. On the weekend of Feb.
and defense," she explained.

team, even if they did not partici­25 and 26, the team will compete in 
Specifically she names: picks,

pate in the conditioning program, the northern district state tour­
screens, rolls, blocking out for 

or "have had no previous experi­nament for small colleges, which
rebounds, and cutting down on 

ence on a basketball team." She Duffy really looks forward to.
turnovers, as areas that need a lot 

expects to narrow the team down to She cites Northwestern and
of work. 

between 12 and 15 women. Northern Illinois University as es­
Duffy brings the team plenty
Try-outs will be in the form of pecially tough competition this
of basketball experience. She 

informal scrimmages, with Duffy. year, since they have the advan­
graduated from Ohio Dominican 

observing the women and making tage of women's scholarships over
College in 1971, where she started subsequent cuts. She hopes to as forward on the team all four Notre Dame. 
complete cuts by the beginning of As always, St. Mary's will pro­
years.

November, in order to get "three vide some good games. "They
In 1970 she was selected by the 

solid weeks of practicing in before wer~ good last year, so I look for
U.S. Olympic Committee as one of 
them to be equally as good this
the top SO women players in thbe 
year," she commented. 

Irish face Ducks -country to try out for the U.S. team. 
Summarizing, Coach Duffy en­
While working on her masters in 

[continued from page 12] couraged women to come out for
education, specifically guidance

first quarter of the Northwestern the team, "since it is not a real
counseling, at Xavier University, 

game, has undergone surgery for pressure atmosphere, but a chance
she began coaching basketball at 

torn knee cartilage. Terry Eurick to play basketball and work hard
Bishop Waterson High School in 

has been shifted from halfback to for their potential. 
Columbus, Ohio. She continued to 

fullback to fill the void h;ft by Heavens. Eurick has responded with 134 yards in 20 carries, an average of 6. 7 yards per attempt. 
Basketball tickets available

"There is no doubt that the loss of Jerome Heavens is a tremendous Season basket ball tickets are deposit will either be refunded or blow to our team," Devine remark­applied toward purchase of a
available. The cost of a reserve 

ed. ''The normal recovery period is bleacher seat.
seat season ticket will be $32 for six weeks, although he may con­the lower arena and S24 for the Any students who did not make a ceivably be ready before or after 
bleachers. There is a limit of one deposit last spring, but would now that time." ticket per student. These costs like to purchase a season ticket may No matter when Heavens recove­so
average out to S2 per game for a do after midsemester break. rs, the important factor is that lower arena seat and Sl.SO per Seniors may purchase tickets from Heavens cannot be red-shirted. game for a bleacher seat as 9 a.m. to noon on Wednesday, Oct. The rule states that , if a player is 27; juniors, law and ·graduate
compared with the public reserved 

injured after his second game, he is 
seat price of S4 and $3. Approxi­students on the same day from 1 ineligible for red-shirting. p.m. to 4 p.m.; married students
mately 5,000 seats will be held for 

The Irish have had two weeks to students. and sophomores on Thursday, Oct. prepare for Oregon. The Ducks 28, from 9 a.m. to4 p.m.; freshmen 
Those Notre Dame students who 

may be looking to make up for last on Friday, Oct. 29, from 9 a.m. to 4 
made a deposit in the spring to

week, but the 1 p.m. These hours include the noon 
reserve a ticket for the basketball

Irish will be looking to resume their hour.
season can obtain their ticket at the

schedule on a positive note. Married students desirous of
Ticket Sales Windows on .the
Irish Items: AI Hunter is but four purchasing adjacent tickets for
second floor of the ACC from 9

yards shy of gaining the 1,OOOth their spouse must waive their class 
a.m. to 4 p.m. (including the noon

yard of his career. priority as stated above and wait
hour) on Wednesday, Oct. 13
Dave Reeve's 47-yard field goal until Thursday, Oct. 28. Tickets for 
throught Friday Oct. 15.

against Michigan State gives him the married student will be S24 21 for his career. The junior . Upon presentation of a student plus S28 for the spouse's tickets, kicker's next three pointer will give ID the "Balance Due" will be only bleacher seats are available. him the Notre Dame career mark, collected and the student will St. Mary's students will also 
moving Bob Thomas down to the receive his ticket. Seating priority have an opportunity to purchase number two standing. was determined at the time of tickets according to the above Finally, Ross Browner has recov­deposit in the spring, so the time schedule. The price for St. Mary's
• ered eight fumbles in his career, and day that a student obtains his students will be the same as the tying him with Jim Stock for the ticket will not affect where he is Notre Dame students, $24. How­Irish all-time mark. seated. The Ticket Office will ever, only bleacher seats will be Saturday's game is set for 1:30 accept only one ID and one available for sale. p.m.lt will be broadcast over the payment from one student. Notre Dame and St. Mary's Mutual Radio Network by Don If a student does not obtain his students wishing to sit together. Criqui and Pat Sheridan. The tilt ticket before Friday, Oct. 15, that must purchase their tickets con­
will also be televised locally on student will lose his seating prior­secutively according to class pri­WNDU TV. Due to the mid-semes­ity. All unclaimed tickets will be ority. The Ticket Office will accept ter break, WSND radio will not offered for sale beginning Wed-. one ID and one payment from one carry the battle. nesday, Oct. 27. The stUdent's individual. · · 
l.'t'. ' \ I ' 
4 I. l"'' 
' 

line. Power running by Larry The Notre Dame Rugby Club Morris and Ralph Miranda, includ­plays Michigan this Friday night on ing a 37 yard middle screen tc Cartier Field. The '8' game is set 
Miranda, moved Cavanaugh down for 6:30 with the 'A' to follow. 

luddill 
michigan_ south bend 234-1431' 

downtown south bend on river bend plaza across from the bi(l hole 
thursday, friday, & saturday, october 14, l5, 16 
LAZY RIVER 
formerly blue[lrass alli.!lnce 
cover charge only $1.00 
il'-r Clolontal .Jl~.nraltt -oust 

FRIDAY 5:15­MASSS SUPPER A very informal gathering of good people, at Bulla Shed, the Campus Ministry Adivities Center, the little green house at the comer of Bulla Rd. and Juniper (in the middle of the block, across from Grace Tower and the Ubrary). 
Everyone welcome -new students especially! 
I.,­
' ,I ~ I ::: 


C· .-,. . . .....
·•··. ":.'.' \ \ ' .' ' \ .' ' ·, ~ ' ' . ' .... ' . . . ~ .. . . . ..' '.. '.. -. -· .('
~ \ \ ~r. ~ -'­
~~-..................................................................................................................................................... 
~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, Oct. 14, 1976 
the observer 1 1 

-
I

Walsh, Lewis, Lyons score victories 
by Chuck Dressman paydirt, giving Walsh a 12-0 lead. aerial to give lewis an 8-0 lead. conversion. After stopping Breen­Andv Hoffman who marched into and With only two minutes remain­Although both offenses played Phillips. Lyons scored again.as Jilly the end zone. 
Win Palmer ing in the half. Farley generated its well there was no more scoring in -Delucia went for 45 yards and a The first time Lvon'> received the Sports Writers best scoring threat. Star halfback the half. Lewis deensiv6 back touchdown on a reverse.. Lyons ball in the second. half they scored Chris Datziman took a· handoff, Helen Wathan was mainly respon­was not able to score the extra again as Shirley Seufert swept in 
Wide open offenses and long runs turned the corner, and dashed 60 sible for containing Badin's sharp point on this occasion or any future fron II vards out. Brccn-Phillip'> characterized Wednesday's inter­yards to the Walsh 15. The offense passing attack while linebackers extra point attempts in the game. drove down the field a., Kate Sarb hall clashes between Farley and stalled there. however, and the Maureen Sullivan and pat Meyer The next time Lyons gained completed SC\Tral long pa'>SC'> to Walsh and Lewis and Badin. In the halftime score remained 12-0. played well against the run. On the possession of the ball. Shirley Cathv Schneider and Jo Anne opener, Walsh blanked Farley 20-0 The second half was basically a other side, Chris Burns. Karn Seufert scampered 56 yards for a Moo~cv but Delucia '>topped thi' and Lewis down Badin 16-6. On defensive struggle with several Lipuma andTherese Tavis led the touchdown and a 20-0 lead. ·dri\·e al<,o a., she picked off Monday. Lyons shutout Breen players standing out. Walsh ended Badin charge. Brecn-Phillips then put on their another pas-;. Phillips 32-0 the day's scoring when Thornton The second half featured the onlv drive of the half but the drive The re'>t of the game \\a~ a 
again scored. this time on a 35 yard offenses. as both teams marched stailcd on the Lyons 23~~·ard line defensive ~trugglc a-. Lvons ''a'> Walsh 20 Farley 0 run. Kirn added the conversion to up and down the field. The where Jill Delucia intercepted a content to let the clm·k run out late finalize Walsh's 20-0 shutout. running of Badin halfbacks Julie pass. in the game\\ hen thL'\ \\LTL' on tht· 
Three breakaway touchdowns Walters and Lisa Yartenburger Lyons completed their scoring in Bree-Phillip'> 20 \ani line. were the difference as Walsh Lewis 16 Badin 6 ignited a long drive which culmi­the first half on a r;,~zzle dazzle zapped Farley 20-0. Both teams nated on quarterback Judy play. Lopez handed the ball to moved the ball well early in the Lewis nudged Badin 16-6 behind Temple's 27-yard pass to Trish Seufert who handed off to Delucia SMC plays to tie game but interceptions by Farley's the two touchdown performance of Bertke. The conversion run failed. on an apparent reverse but Deluci..1 Marge \1eagher and Walsh's Ann halfback Erin Burns. Badin took however, and Badin still trailed stopped and tossed a long pass to 
b,l Patti Do.\ lc

Eisele snuffed out scoring threats. the opening kickoff and punted to 8-6. 
Sports WriterWalsh broke on top to stay midway Lewis after failing to get a first The Lewis offensive unit then through the half when quarterback down. With the Badin defense sealed the victory with a long 

Franklin to



Irish booters win College tra\·elcd
Eisele passed 32 yards to Becky keying on Lewis' star Sue Benke. sustained drive. the backfield duo SMC last Saturdav to take on '11.
Thornton for a score. The W a ish quarterback Robin Jenkins crossed of Burns and Benke accounted for Man·'s field hockcv team. '11.
defense then forced Farley to punt them up with a give to Burns, who nearly all the yardage with Burns b\ Bob Keen Mar~··s displayed ~n imprcs'>ivcon their next offensive series and jaunted 35 yards untouched for a scoring her second touchdown. on a Sports Writer hockey performance. Despite thefreshman Jay Decio sprinted 50 score. Marcia Mach added the 30-yard run. with only a minute to 0-Q outcome. SMCs game \\a.,
yards down the right sideline to conversion with a catch of a Jenkins play. 
The Notre Dame Soccer B Team much improved over their pre\·iou.... defeated Goshen Tuesday. in a appearance'>. Sand\ Parnell. a
Lyons 32 Breen-Phillips 0 

hard fought defensive battle. 1-0. sophomore on the icam. stated The game was played before a "We tinalh got our offense and

Hockey tix still available 
Lyons trounced Breen-Phillips 

large and very vocal crowd at defcn'>e working together; there
Monday by scoring 26 po.ints in the

Season hockey tickets are avail­year. There are eight tow-games Stepan Field with noted pro­was a unitv to the team and it rcallv
tirst half. Lyons opened up the

able. These tickets will be on sale series this season. A ticket for all fessional soccer superstar K~-le helped to .improve our entire gani­
game 14-yard

on a first-come, first-serve basis at 16 games costs students $16 and a with a touchdown Rotc. Jr. in attcndanco:. e." Since this is a trial vear for the 
run b~-quarterback Sh:.tron Lopez.

the #3 Ticket Window on the student's spouse $24. Students can Nick Schneeman scored the team. the women are n;1t consider­
Kathy McCann scored the two point

second floor of the ACC. also purchase a first-game-of-the­winning. and onl~· goal. for the ed a varsity sport and they don't 
Notre Dame students may pur­series-ticket or a second-game-of­Irish. Goalie Brian Cullather. with get the benctits that a varsitv sport chase their tickets on Wednesday, the-series-ticket which would enti­the help of excellent defensive. would normally be granted. But Oct. 13 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. St. tle a student to see either the first pla~-ed superb!~· in recording his with the experience from this

Duck pep rally set 

Mary's students may purchase game of the second game of ~ach of second shut-out of Goshc·n this season behind them and such tickets on Thursday, Oct. 14 from 9 the eight home series. Each of There will be a pep rail~-this year. enthusiasm from the team membe-· 
a.m. to 4 p.m. Each student may these tickets ar $8 apiece for Friday at 7 p.m. in Stepan Center. The vil'torv raised the team's rs and spectators. the women look 
present only his own ID. Students students and $12 for a student's Featured speakers include Paul record to tht:cc wins against one forward to getting support next wishing adfocent seating must spouse. Shoults. Hank Kuhlman. Rick los-; and a tic. The team is idle year. purchase their tickets at the same No season tickets will be sold Slager and Joe Rcstic. during mid-semester break but will St. Mary's and Notre Dame will time. after Oct. 14. Single game tickets The Band requests that all rc~umc play Tuesday. Oct. 2o clash in each team's final battle of 
There are three types of student are $1.50 for student with presen­bicycles be removed from against St. Joseph's College at the season on Thursdav at 4:30 on tickets available to students this tation of an ID card. pathway~ Stepan Field. Cartier. · 
Notoces tound please call 233 2608. 11'5 tile From now on all those who know G Hmmm. 

warmest thin'l I have. 

refer to her as the Cookie Monster. .4n'lel Flinht Or<lanizational meet BAN, The next to last personal was

Classified Ads

ir· .,· 25 Ociober ai 6 :30 pm in room Lost. Womaf''S CJOid 'Gruen' watch'l I'm hurt. G a comment on beinn "H inh School" 
1 ~ W a Ish. Questions call 8042 with mesh band. Somewhere be­JBM -. 
tween Holy Cross and (or 1n I Field Interviewers Male or Female. 

RNG Even thou(Jh your brother &
Must have car and be will inn to work
Madeleva. Reward 4 437 4 

~ YPIIIoG >.35 per paCJe. Call Dan, the Captains have nice ones I like Help! Need ride to Cincinnati (pre
evenin'lS and Saturdays. No sellin'l

')_1~ 5549. yours the best. C fer Oxford) or lndianpolis or 170
draw available if you are (JOOd. Call Call Pe'l'lY 7957. 

Found. 1 'lOid earrin'l on S. Quad. at for appoint east. Call Mike at 8692 (please!')
Mr. Slade 277 3191

'.JVEREATERS ANONYMOUS in­DON'T ASK!!! can leave Fri. or Sat.
ment.

i._rmation srite P. 0. Box 1265 Holy 
-
Cross Hall SMC. Blue Come over toni'lht and we'll Blue Happy Sweetest Day I love
Two need ride to Batof' Rou'le. Call 

(Jet (Jross! Yours in lust, Crackers you! CrackersTerese 7879 or .A.nne 7848. · Greyhoond bus to Chicago leaves 
Wanted

circle every Friday at 4:45. Call Tom Jack be nimble, Jack be quick, NEED 2 RIDERS TO BALTO.­
2 'l iris desperately need ride to

by midnif]ht area Jack I can't think of a limerick, FOR
at 8338 Thursday tor Need ride back to N D from Conn. Washinnton DC (one way) for WASH. DC AREA BREAK. 
!jl!at reservations and further info. With the Yankees in town, LEAVING EARLY SUNDAY MOR­
NY area after break. Share drivin'l Oct. break. Willin<l to leave ANY I can hardly sit down, NING. MARY ELLEN 8121.

& $$. Eric 1194. -TIME and will share driving and

Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho So I'll sirm it with a TOUJOURS 1 
expenses. Call 6561 or 7995.

232-0746. Hours: 8 AM to 8 PM -Dick Crackers Teasing three guys is not
NEED RIDERS TO LONG ISLAND, wise, but very NO.
N.Y. AREA. OCT. 18. CALL 1655. Desperately need 2 GA tix for

Will teach flute in your spare time. ROTC Jock You must now be
Oref]on. Call Mary Pat or Nan 6789.

For info call Beth 8112. certain that the name tits. Crackers Kevin Huston's birthday is Friday,
Need 5 Gen. Adm. OreC~on tix. Call 
Oct. 15. Call that "bunny rabbit" of
Mark 287-5713. Help Wanted. Part-time evenin(Js

NO Club sponsors tour to USC-NO Ron I could never have notten this a guy at 1847 and say HAPPY
Spen i's Pro Shop 321 S. Notre 

C~ame plus week sunny far without you. Cappin(J-is tor you. B-DAY. He loves phone calls.
one in BEER !=ree delivery and low prices. Dame. South Bend ________:-______
Hawaii. Game ticket included. De­Love, Kathleen.
Chip 288-7878. ~-­
part Nov. 27 & return Dec. 6. JBM Does it matter if it was the
Riders needed to Pittsburgh. Leav

$520.00 from Chicano. Call 1577 tor Blue Why do we need home movies 13th, 14th, or 15th? At least it was.
WANTED: Three men in blue. 109 in'l Oct. 15 back 17th. Call 287-6613

details. · when we can see it live? Crackers Smooch. Crackers
Walsh atier 5 :00. 

NOTICE: Fat Wally's now deliver Gump How does everyone know Welcome to Notre Dame Bear Cub.
Need 3 GA tix to Oreflon name. Call Need ride back to Notre Dame from 

inC~ pizzas and sandwiches, Monday about the Cookie Monster, and the Love, P.C.
Mary 7877. --Pittsbur'lh after break. Great Com 

· Saturday, 8 till midnight. Mini­Cookie Monster doesn't know them.
pany!! Will share expenses. Call 

mum order $3.00. Phone 277-0570. This is quite a riddle. Let me in on To P (alias Patti Coleman l. You're
Need 4 GA Orenon fix. Call Joe Jean 8158. 

it! c bi'l time now, kid' You not your
277 3307 after 5:00 pm. "'----------------­

NOTARY PUBLIC Mike Borders 300 name in the NO Observer'' Love, G
Desperately need 6 GA tix for

Morrissey.. Absentee ballots usually Happy Birthday Cindy. I love you.
Desperately need 4 GA tix for OreC~on. Call Rick 8685.

need tc be notarized. Neely Happy Birthday early?"
Alabama. Call Bob 1461. 

H urb, L. G. Rybo, and 0 B, Thanks Love. Edy, Jimy, Pauly & Jeffy
NEED 1 to 3 student tickets for

Will do typing: manuscripts, themes for the super time and the transpor­
Urgently need a BAMA ticket for a Alabama or Miami. Frank 8705.

Call 287-5162. tation Love, Maura and Sheila GEC. BAN, CCC. JOG. and JBM
returninn Domer! Call Maureen at Come on over for home movies and
4829. -Need student or GA Bama tickets Deebles You're the only (JUY I know we'll fix the sprinf]s.

Call 1487.

For Rent who'll put in a birthday Personal to
WANTED: Help wanted: waitresses 
JOG, I don't get it. GEC

full, part-time; must be 21. Apply himself. Gump 
Furnished apartment tor rent: 2 For Sale
Fat Wally's, 2046 South Bend Ave.

bedrooms. utilities furnished, pri­Happy B-day to the best Juapatula Delch inski Your cookies are nreat
4-7 P.M.

vate bdlh & en-trance, no pets, quiet 4 GA Orerton tix for sale· at cost. creator John Hanale. Love from the (even though they're small). R(de is adults, deposit. Forest Ave. Off Joan 1334 _-Triple Troublemakers, Susan, Kath still oood. Teli E. P. I'm noin'l to
Need two tickets for Elvis concert.

Portage. 291-0556. leen, and Lisa AIaska tor breaks. Thanks. ·Pup
Call 232-7469. 

One half caret diamond rin<l with For Rent: turn ished six and four matchinn weddin<l band. Excellent Is it true that GC can't cope and Is it true that Blue and Crackers use
WANTED: 2 GA tickets for Ducks.

bedroom houses couple blocks from trade-in 'value on stone where it was won't even try anymore? mirrors?
$$Call Dennis 8164.

Notre Dame. Also sinole rooms. purchased. Best offer. 234-5735. 277-3604 evenings. -Aw, Come on! I coped real well last Hey, GC. stop typing that kinky
Need ride Kansas Ks.

to City, or Hand crochet pom-pom hats, official Saturday!! GC (alias Cookie Mon stuff.
Glenville, W. Va. tor Oct. break. 

NO colors and seal. Call 6265 to ster?)
Please call Matt at 3386.

LDst & Found place orders. Crackers, I only type what I'm For time dial 1633 given. GC
Experienced student seeking house a (JOOd or 1639 
Lost: blue jean jacket with fur linino. and have a lau(Jh'!
painting, lawn jobs. Mike 289-2632

Call Pitz at 6970. · Personals Suzie Congratulations
(evenings). P. on your
Happy Birthday John! Everythin(J is cappinCJ. We're proud of you. Lisa & Lost: Gold St. Mary's class rino. JBM-Don't you like us anymore? under control. No Allinators! Love, Marylu
Need 2 GA Orenon tickets. Call

En(Jraved with Mary Ester Hall, BS, TNM, CCC. RNG Susan · 
Henry at 288-2618-.

78. Reward. Call 4524. Gump, Thanks for lunch Tuesday.We still like you. C, R, T It's been comin(J tor 200 years ...the I've always gone for men in uni
Need 2 Bama tix tor· parents who

Lost: 2 rings in vicinity of ROTC why-centennial Beaux Arts Costume form! G buildings. High school-green stone; never have been to an NO game. ROTC Jock Don't you like me Ball. Come as your favorite Amer­
Mary8125. ­

and turquoise with mother of pearl. anymore? C ican hero, monument or food. Oct. Observer Staff Have a ClOOd break. Reward offered. Please call Kevin 30 You need it and so do !.·Love, Mom 233-4222. JBM -Don't you like me anymore?
Addressers wanted Immediate­ly! Work at home..no experience 

TNM Blue-Sorry. I'm just trying to cope. Thanks Mom. You too. OSnecessary--excellent pay. Write
Let a smile be your umbrella on a Crackers 
American Service, Suite 132, Min­

rainy day, but I need my light brown JBM -Don't you like me anymore? J.O. Happy Birthday, you JIZ
neapolis, Mn. 55426.

wrap-lie raincoatt Reward. Call RNG Simon Who was that girl you gotKaren -6994. drunk? Attention: Kevin "C-FACE" has aNeed 2 GA Bama tix desperately. JBM -Plants miss you. Oh, and so birthday on Oct. 18. but will be
Call 1785.

Lost: Texas Instruments SR-11 'bout do I. Crackers Tommy -How scared were you? celebrating tonight at the 'brary_
.

2 weeks ago in Organic lecture. ---------------Everyone is invited, drinks on
ZING, SPACE, GIDGE & PRON­

Please help me keep my head above Ride needed to Wash. D. C. area tor Kevin.
TO, Thank you nine times for the Gren Is it true what the rumor 
the rising Physics-infested Oct. break. Call Donna 8112. Keenan The •
waters. excellent duisine. La­says?
Call 291-8·329 after 5:00 pm, Mark. Support your local Soccer Club!
sagna's in the W innaDego · · 
Can identify it. oven. wha;-r~~;:?w-;hl~;o7?___ · 
Part-a-Party 

BAN, CCC, RNG, TNM, JBM, Lost a blue jean ja<::ket at the Library BAN, 1oraduated from NCHS in 73. Gump, Deebles, Jeffy, Murp, & the
Jeffy-He really can't help it if he's

Bar on Sal. Jim Strong 31077. If How about you? JBM Guys, Have a good break! LDve, G
a slob! C 



Thuraday, Oct. 14, 1976
12 the observer 






Irish to go 'Duck' hunting Saturday 
by~~;;;:-· , , , · . ·· However, Ross Browner and Willie 
--r 
This Saturday the Fighting Irish return to the gridiron after a one-week sabbatical to take on the University of Oregon. The Fighting Ducks are 3-2, losing their most recent outing to the University of California 27-10 last weekend. 
Saturday's clash will be the first confrontation between Notre Dame and the Webfoots. Head Coach Don Read and his team enter the contest experienced, returning eight offensive starters and five defensive regulars from their 1975 squad. 
Jack Henderson will be the signal-caller for the Ducks for the second consecutive year. He will be relying on fullback George Bennett and tailbacks Jim Johnson and Greg Gilchrist to lead his 
running game. 
Bennett is the leading scorer for the Ducks with three touchdowns. 
H. 228 d 69 · · 
IS yar s on cames gtves him a 3.3 yards per try average. 
Johnson has picked up 151 yards in 34 carries, while Gilchrist has run for 117 yards in 28 attempts. Neither has reached paydirt this season. 
Likely targets for Henderson's aerial attack will be tightend Greg Bauer and wide receiver Tom Cafferty· Henderson has complet­ed 66 out of 124 passes for 570 yards, throwing eight interceptions and one touchdown pass. Bauer has snagged 17 catches for 164 yards,. and Cafferty has added 13 receptions for 162 yards. . 


· Fry have shown great leadership and the younger people have given a really good overall perform­ance." 
The Notre Dame defensive line has sacked the opposing quarter­backs and runners 19 times for a negative 92 yards. Likewise, the Irish secondary has performed with great expertise, having not allowed their opponents to complete a touch­down pass, and limiting opposing quarterbacks to a minimal .343 pass completion percentage. 
The offense, although question­able against Pitt, has been per­forming well as of late. "The offense needs time, and over the last three weeks there has been improvement with the team playing together," Devine commented. 
One of the main problems com­ing into the 1976 season was the task of rebuilding the offensive line. Ernie Hughes was the sole returning lineman from the 1975 The improved play of the offensive line has been instrumental in Notre Dame's success since openin~ campaign. 
day. (Photo by Tony Chifari.) 

The Oregon defensive unit will the middle of the season," Irish be led by linebacker Darrell Mehl mentor Dan Devine stressed. "The and middJeguard Rod Rickert. main thing is that the players don't Mehlleads the team in tackles with lose any physical or mental sharp­
37. Although Rickert has only had ness. It is important to remain 18 solo tackles, he holds the physically active, but not work as number one spot for assists with hard as if preparing for a game. 
25. There's a fine balance between 
The Irish were void of gridiron physical and mental aspects of competition last Saturday. The preparing a team.'' Ducks will be ready to compensate On the other hand, instead of for last week's loss to California, finding the Irish unprepared, the trying to catch Notre Dame lacking Ducks may find Notre Dame well sharpness due to the week layoff. rested after a very physical Michi-
The line may have a new face in Dame defense yielded their first the starting line-up, depending if points since the forst the fourth the injured Harry Woebkenburg quarter of the Pittsburgh clash. will be ready by Saturday's 
Although allowing two field contest. If not, Ted Horansky will goals to be scored against themm be starting in place of Woebken­the Irish defense has yet to permit burg at tackle. Horansky will join a touchdown since their opening Hughes and other regulars Mike game, a total of 12 quarters. Carney, Dave Huffman and Steve 
"We are particularly pleased McDaniels. with the defensive effort over the Another strike against the Irish last three games," Devine stated. offense is the loss of starting "We were very concerned when fullback Jerome Heavens. Heav-Jeff Weston and Randy Harrison ens, who has not played since the were injured a few weeks ago. [continued on page 10] 
"There are advantages and dis-gan State battle. In that contest, r----------------------------. 
Fred Herbst ~::=~=:=:::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::=======:=:::=:::::::=:=:=:::====::=:::::=:=:=:"-=::=:=:::::::::::::======== 
Football Predictions 

advantages to having a week off in which the Irish won 24-6, the Notre 

Is there a single powerhouse team in college football this season? 
Ohio State, Penn State, Southern Cal, Alabama, Notre Dame and Texas all suffered early losses this season. Teams that appeared to have the best chances of having perfect seasons, like Georgia, UCLA, and Oklahoma, have all had their records blemished as oflate. 
Maryland, Pittsburgh and Michigan are the only

-major college teams that still have a shot at perfect records. Even then, one has to wonder just how good Maryland is, while Pittsburgh has lost starting quarterback Bob Haygood for the season as well as his backup, Cavanaugh, for at least six weeks. So the
1 
Panthers, despite the presence of Tony Dorsett, are 
questionable. 
Only Michigan looks to be awesome, but security is a luxury that they can't afford with everyone gunning for them. 
It adds up to an interesting season, and it's getting more and more interesting as bowl bids draw nearer. With only three at-large bids available to the four major bowls, there's a mad scramble shaping up. 
So, with the aid of the "Pigskin Prophet" Morey Blinder, here are the Irish Eye's picks for this weekend: 
Michigan at Northwestern:A lot of complaints have 
been lodged concerning Chip Spina's rough treatment 
of Northwestern in his column "Goodbye Northwes­
tern,'' but what people don't seem to realize is that in 
reality Spina was overly kind to the Wildcats. 
Northwestern has lost their last 11 in a row and 
they're certainly one of the worst teams in the 
midwest, if not the country. Michigan by 30. Blinder: 
Northwestern is worse than you think! Michigan 
42-0. 
Ohio State at Wisconsin: Woody Hayes is the real 
Badger in this game. Watch for him to take out his 
frustration on Wisconsin. OSU by 17. Blinder: 
Already stung twice this year, Woody will roll it up 
this week. Ohio 44-17. 
Harvard at Dartmouth: Defeat doesn't set well with Dartmouth's defensive tackle Greg Robinson. Look for Robinson to lead the Green and White over the «rch-rival Crimson bv 6. Blinder: Dartmouth will 
rebound after last week's loss. Dartmouth by E=mc 
scuared. • M;sslssippi at South Carolina: Ole Miss is tough, but· H··-' Gamecocks are just too good to be beaten at home tt. .5 week. Gamecocks by 7. Blinder: This one follows a formula that I haven't quite figured out. Rebels 24-13. Dllnols at Purdue: Illinois got out of the gates fast, but h..ve stumbled since. Purdue is yet to do anything impressive. In a battle of losers, 111ini by 4. Blinder: I dread this pick, but Purdue is going to upset somebody this year and when it happens, I want to be on the right side. Purdue 24-20. Alabama at Tennessee: If Bill Battle thought he had troubles with the Vols' alumni, just wait until he tries to tackle the Bear. Tide by 14. Blinder: Alabama is on 
the road to recovery--Vol effort subterfuged by dump Battle spirit. Tide 31-10. Mlami[O] at Ohio: The Irish Eye has picked Miami four ti.nes this season has yet to be proven right. Still it's hard to say no to Miami 0. Redskins by 3. Blinder: Miami looks to keep their perfect record intact. Ohio U 24-16. Kansas State at Nebraska: Last week Colorado put a scare into the hearts of Cornhusker fans.· This week they can relax and enjoy the fun. Huskers by 14. Blinder:Kansas State is bad, real bad, Cornhuskers should coast through this one. Nebraska 41-7. Georgia Tech at Auburn: In a battle of two evenly matched teams, Pepper Rodgers could spell the difference for the Yellowjackets. Tech by 4. Blinder: This one will be aired on theatre-TV at Cecil's filling station. On a hunch, Tech 31-21. Rutgers at Lehigh: This game shapes up as a ferocious battle to be waged in the pits. Rutgers offensive line is led by center John Fedorchak and has been able to push opponents up and down the field at will this· season. But Saturday will be different as they meet a brutal Engineer defense led by the amazing John Matt. Lehigh will stop the longest winning streak in the country by 2. Blinder: Engineers are the only threat to undefeated season for the Scarlet Knight machine. Rutgers 24-7. West Virginia at Boston College: B.C. is vastly overrated, but they're still good enough to handle the Mountaineers. B.C. by 9. Blinder: B.C. passing attack too much for Moonshiners to handle. B.C. 34-19. Oklahoma at Kansas: The Sooners choked against Texas last week and need a win badly. But they're not going to get it Saturday as Nolan Cromwell will give a clinic on how to run the option. J ayhawks by 11. Blinder: Don't ask me why, byt I've got a feeling the Jayhawks are going to do it. KU 21-16. Oregon at Notre Dame: The webfoots are all wet. They'll probably lose by SO, but my friend who likes to feed the ducks feels sorry for them and insists it won't be any worse than 17, Blinder: Irish caught looking ahead: Do not win big,don'tmove up in the polls. ND 23-3. 
UPSET OJ:o' THE WEEK: Miami [Fia) at Pitt: The Panthers have lost each of their quarterbacks, but they still have Tony Dorsett and that's enough to weather the Hurricanes. Morey, you're dreaming. Pitt by 10. Blinder: Spy in the field, Bob Steinmetz, has helped me with this one: Pitt has a senior walk-on quartt~rback, ergo Miami 17-14. Syracuse at Penn State: After dropping their first three games the Orange have come back to take their last two and to save Frank Maloney's job, for the time being at least. Penn State is down, Syracuse is up. Orange by 6. Blinder: Nittanys get a chance for some ego builcling this week. Wrongo Fred, no one ever called you Joe Paterno's best friend. Penn State 28-7. 
Past week: 9-3-3, 70 percent; Guest picker Mary Reher: 8-4-3, 64 percent. 

Ted Robinson 
' 



'It's a sad case' 
Editor's Note: Ted Robinson is Sports Director at WSND. This column expresses his opinion and not necessarily that of the members of The Observer editorial board. The view of the Observer editorial board on the University's decision to ban hockey coverage from WSND Is expressed on today's front page. 
There is a radio station on campus, supposedly designed for students, 
called WSND. WSND-AM, which revolves around a progressive format, 
operates on a carrier current, broadcasting only to the campus. 
WSND-FM, licensed by the FCC as a non-commercial station, has tended 
towards a fine arts format over the last few years, and broadcasts 
throughout the Michiana area. 
Both stations are totally operated by students, with a few volunteers 
from the South Bend area. As there is no longer a communications major 
at this University, WSND is the only tool available for students who have 
an interest in learning about the radio industry. 
0\'f:r the last month, there has been a complex battle raging both within 
and outside WSND regarding the merits of broadcasting Notre Dame 
hockey. Our investigation of the matter covered four weeks, and included 
discussions with student volunteers from as far back as 1970. Since no 
commercial station had made a commitment to carry Notre Dame hockey 
as of last Thursday, WSND decided to carry the games if adequate 
sponsorship could be found. In order to find sponsors, the games must be 
carried on FM, due to the 30 to 40 mile radius which its signal reaches. 
Last Friday, as the final details of the package were being ironed out, 
we were dealt a severe blow. We learned from a University source that if 
hockey was carried on WSND-FM, our funds necessary for broadcast 
would be cut off. Faced with the possibility of being shut down, we were 
forced to cancel our broadcast plans. 
If the University does not want hockey carried on FM, why have they 
never said anything during the last six years which we have covered 
hockey? LastYear, we covered 34 out of 37 games, more than any other 
commercial station in the area. The University claims ignorance. I doubt 
if many people in the Administration could name three people or three 
programs at WSND, and this ignorance reinforces my belief. Yet, theyy 
have now declared themselves authorities on programming decisions and 
are dictating them to WSND. 
Ifthe University is going to continue this policy, what will become of our 
student management? In the long history of WSND, every decision 
concerning programming and policy has been administered by the 
students. Ifwe can no longer have the right to decide what programs go 
on the air, the University should simply board up our offices and hang our 
"Station Manager" sign in the Dome. 
Since WSND exists for the students who operate it , our desires need to , be considered also. We are billed as the "creative sound of a great 
·University.' 'Hockey was our opportunity to be creative, yet the University 
shot us down. Producing programs like hockey would help many students 
at WSND, including myself. land jobs in the very competitive field of 
broadcasting when we graduate. This is eddenced by the fact that such 
people as Don Criqui and Tim Ryan, who are highly successful in the 
broadcasting industry. are WSNO alumni. Yet the University ignored that 
also. 
So. I can only _presume that the University has decided that WSND-FM jexists for the listeners first, and the students second. The administration wants WSND-FM, in a fine arts format, to exist as their showcase for public relations. Well, I want no part of that, and not many people at WSNDdo. 
I think I'll make a suggestion to Brother Pascezny and the rest of our ~ewfound programmers. Ifyou want WSND-FM done your way, find your ~wn people to spin records and run tapes, because that's the only 
reativity there. Better yet, give me 11 call. I know where you can get a ~ood deal on a jukebox. 







