--~-­
Police suspect arson 
Fire disrupts Holy Cross formal 
by Marianne Schulte Senior Staff Reporter 
A fire originating in the basement of the Four Flags Motor Inn in Niles. Michigan early Saturday morning abruptly terminated the Holy Cross formal and sent some 200 students, hotel occupants and bar patrons into the streets to escape the flames and dense smoke. 
Five persons were injured and several others treated at the sce~e for smoke inhalation during the three-and-a-half hour battle to contam the spreading flames to the basement of the structure at the cor~er of 4th and Main. Some of the injuries occurred when occupants pamcked and jumped from first-and second-story windows to the sidewalk before ladders could be raised to rescue them. 
City police said there were about two-hundred people in the hotel when the fire broke out at 12:45 a.m. Approximately ISO Notre Dame and St. Mary's students were attending the Ho~y Cross_ formal in the Queen Anne Room on the street level of ~he 111n, whtle some forty people were overnight and resident ~uests ot the h~tel. A!lother dozen persons were present in the cocktaal bar located JUSt oft of the ho~el lobby when talk of tire and thick smoke sent everyone towards extts and 'Window~ for escape. 
No panlr 
"There was no panic." explained Tom Black, a former Holy Cross rt•sident present at the formal. "I was standing near the entrance to the room where the dancc'was being held when the owners came up and calmly informed us that there was a fire downstairs and everyone should ml;Vl' to the outside of the building." 
"After the band made the annoutt<.:cment," he continued. "as many people as pos~ible exited through the front cntran~e before the smoke became too thick." Black added that the fire exits were not clearly marked, and he could not locate a fire extinguisher anywhere in the room. 
The main entrance was blocked off quickly in the heavy smoke which l'mcrged from the adjacent stairwell as flames climbed upwards from the ha~ellll'nt level. 
According to owner lknni:-. Fortier. some students overreacted to the "noke and certain damages could have been avoided had a calmer apprnadt been taken. . . 
''In thl' nr~t place, the rear exit could have been used alter the ma111 
History department revamps curriculum 
b~· Patrick Cole Scni-;,r Staff Reporter 

The lkpartmcnt of History has · introduced some changes to the l'U rricu I u m. 
Thl· required credit hours for major~ have been reduced and new "mini-wurses" have been added. 
Under thl' former plan, the Department of Hist~)fy rc~.uircd J.O credit hours for maJors. Stx credit hours l'adt had to be taken in European history before 1500, in modern Europt:an hi~tory and in American historv. Six cn•dits were required in clc~·tives and in the SL·nior Seminar in which a major papl'r b to he writtt:n hy the 'tudent. 
Effective in the fall semester 197h. thL' required l'fedit hours will ht: reduced to 24 hours and the Senior Seminar is no longer a requirement. Also six c:cdits are required in European htstory be­fore 1600 instead of before 1500. 
"'we wanted to make history more livclv," commented Rev. Marvin R. O'Connell, chairman of the Department of History. "We want to offer a variety of courses without cheapening the quality of the curriculum.'' 
"The present curriculum has been in effect for some time," added Professor Carole E. Moore, assistant professor of history. "We wanted to innovate within the (1cpartment." 
Mini-courses 

Six "mini-courses" will be ad­ded to the curriculum. The courses will be worth one credit hour and will last one month. 
Why have mini-courses? 
"Each professor has projects he could not develop into a semester­long course," Moore explained. "He can now go into a specialized topic hut not be committed for a semt•stcr.'' 
"I think this makes the program better." remarked Professor Tho­mas E. Blantz, assistant professor of history and University archivist. "It gives greater variety to the history program." 
O'Connell said that if a studcn. wants to obtain three credit~. he may take three of the mini-cour­ses. "They will concentrate on things of interest to the student," O'Connell explained. 
" 

Added Blantz. "I think a student docs best in the field or topic in which he is interested." 
New courses added 

An addition to the history de­partment's courses, History 301. "Oomination and Dependency." will be offered in the fall. The course will be team-taught for two semesters. Either semester may be taken independently. The course will he directed by Professor Frederick H. Pike. 
"We arc going to experiment with this course," Hlantz stated. "The students will meet with a professor who is an expert in each lil·ld." 
"It is a good course," Blantz continued. "It gives a student the opportunity to meet professors who they may like to take in the future." 
The first semester of • 'Domina­tion and Dependency" deals with external domination and considers patterns and ideologies of imperial­ism. It explores "the causes and consequences of situations in which one nation or culture establishes domination over foreign nations.'' 
The second semester deals with groups within particular nations or societies, including women. Blacks. Indians, Chicanos and reli­gious minorities. With less de­veloped countries, an attempt is made "to consider a possible connection between foreign eco­nomic imperialism and the power­lessness of various sectors of local citizens.'' 
Moore emphasized that the course will be highly structured in which about half of the faculty will be involved. "The student will be exposed to more issues," she indicated. 
According to O'Connell, the advantage of the team-taught course is to make use of a variety of faculty in their specialities. 
Advisory system, scheduling 
Moore announced that the his­tory department will attempt to strengthen the advisory system for majors this fall. . 
''The junior faculty members wtll have a group of students they will advise starting at the sophomore year," Moore revc?led. Junior 
(continued on page 2 entrance was closed," Fortier claimed. "The rear exit was used by about forty students, and the aCtion of others jumping from the windows was unnecessary as well as causing avoidable damage. Even if they did use the windows, it would have been just as easy to open them instead of breaking through the glass.'' 

"I was amazed at how extremely calm everyone was," remarked Darlene Palma, Notre Dame junior class vice-president. "The reason for this was probably that the word was only 'a small fire downstairs.' Palma said that only few students were concerned about getting their coats which they had left in tlle lobby. 
John O'Lear. newly-elected pres­ident of Holy Cross hall, felt that 
considerable speculation among onlookers. Paul Bohn, a Notre Dame student, said, "The fire departme'bt got there quickly, but once they got there, they seemed to be understaffed." 
According to the South Bend Tribune, about thirty city and Niles Township firemen fought the blaze while volunteers from Morris Farms Fire Department stood by at the fire station. 
O'Lcar believed that the firemen worked "pretty efficiently." and owner Fortier was also pleased with the squad's proficiency. 
"Instead of hacking through locked doors with axes. they cktmly asked me for the keys to the doors and routinely evacuated the sleep­ing residents." Fortier explained. 

unrversdy of notre dome st mary's college 
This past weekend, Saint Mary's sponsored a Sophomor~ Parents Weeke~d. campus, met administration and faculty, and attended dmners and cockta1l parties as part of the festivities. (Photo by Mary Egan) 
~~~~-------------------------­
Choose your officers on Tuesday 
by Gregg B. Bangs Executive Editor 
some students overreacted in help­ing to evacuate the hotel residents on the third and fourth floors above the banquet room, where there was no danger of actual flame. Howev­er, police and firemen from the Niles fire department credited manv Notre Dame students in alerting occupants and getting them out of the building. 
Former Notre Dame student Joe Yanik was treated at the scene for smoke inhalation after crawling along the 3rd floor to evacuate sleeping residents. Other Holy Cross residents aided in the evacu­ation by climbing up fire escapes and getting ladders to occupants on lower tloors. 
Attitudes towards the Niles fire depa 'tment and the way in which they handled the situation raised 
Sophomore 
Freshmen, faced with the oppor­tunity of having sophomore offices for the first time in three years, have responded by fielding a slate of five tickets; two more than arc running for junior class posts and four more than the sole official ticket running for senior class offices. 
Curcio ticket 

The primary concern for all five tickets is that of class participation. "My primary issue is getting the class together. This year's sopho­more class had no organization and I want to work on having more unity," Pete Curcio, candidate for sophomore class president stated. "We feel there is an urgent need for class participation in all activit­ies," he added. 
One of Curcio's major platform ideas is the formation of two class newsletters. One of these newslet­ters will service on-campus stud­ents while the other will be mailed to sophomores in the foreign studies program. 
Curcio plans to "insure involve­ment by having an executive counsel composed of sophomores 
(continued on page 6) 


Junior 

Both tickets running in tomor­row's junior class elections stress that they are going to unify the junior class. While the ticket headed by presidential candidate Mark Klein stresses they are "working with juniors for juniors," Pat Flynn's ticket urges that "it is time to unify as a class" because up till now, most sophomores have regarded themselves as members of a hall or major. 
Flynn ticket 

Pat Flynn and his ticket of Mary Lou Mulvihill--vice president, Sue Bailey--secretary, and Bob "Tex" Keffler--treasurer, plan to "use hall representatives as a unification device to serve as direct channels of ideas." There would be one representative in each hall to air the gripes of the juniors. Flynn feels this "line of communications in the hall will produce results.'' 
Another hall-oriented activity the ticket would like to work on is "organizing lists of tutors for each major." "Freshmen have the opportunity to get free tutors through freshman year, but once you're out of the freshman class 

Senior 

Junior Class President Rob Tul­
ly, vice president Darlene Palma, 
secretary Ken Girouard and trea­
surer John Donahue arc running 
unopposed in Tuesday's senior 
class elections. 
This is the same ticket that won the junior class elections last year with the exception of Girouard, who was serving as news editor of the Observer at that time. "Ken was very active in junior class activities and helped us alot," Tully commented on the new addition to his ticket. "With his work on the Observer and the Commission on Social Space, he brings alot of experience in varied fields to us. His work in public relations will help us," he added. 
Tully is basing his campaign on the record of their junior class activities which included: Juniors Parents Weekend moving the hap­py hours from Kubiak's to Fat Wally's, the class trip and the upcoming junior night at the senior bar. 
Next year he's looking to im­prove the happy hours, have class picnics and change the senior death week into a death month in addition to "doing little thin-'ls to improve 
I (continued on page 7) 

,---­
Monday, April 5, 1976
2 the observer Class officer elections Tuesday 


~---NewsBri~s--­
l===========lntemational 
Sihanouk resigns 
BANGKOK, Thailand --Radio Phnom Penh announced today that Prince Norodom Sihanouk has resigned as Cambodia's head of state. 
·-On Campus Today-a 
9 am -5 pm --workshop, silkscreen workshop with larry stark, 
12:15 pm 
6:30pm 7 pm 
7:30pm 8 pm 
8 pm & 10 pm artist, fieldhouse 

--mass, Iafortune ballroom 
--meeting, sociology majors and prospective majors, rm 104 o'shaughnessy 
--meeting, chess club, rm 227 math and computing center 
--department meeting, the "new" history, to explain the new history program, library lounge 
--philosophy perspective series, "rationality: four problematic concerns" by prof. richard bernstein, haverford college, galvin auditorium 
--film, "dead end," engineering auditorium, tickets $1 
..,.. 




Fire disrupts formal 
(Continued from page 1) 

Other onlookers w.:re doubtful as the) watched a fireman drive an engi 'le around the corner and snap a firehouse connected to a distant fire hydrant. 
After investigation by a state fire marshall late Saturday, Fortier cited arson as the probably cause of the blaze. Most of the $30,000 damage was confined to the base­ment and the stairwells, with very littk damage to the hotel itself. Fortier said that the stairwells were con.;iderably damaged as they act­ed as .a chimney for the flames. 
T te Stanford Hall formal, sched­
uled to take place at the inn next week,·nd, will be held as planned. lniured were David Steinman, 
34. with an injured right eye; David Mortimer. 36. with second degree bun's, an.d John Peterson, 40, who suffered a fractured ankle r.f~er jumping from a window. Maurice Clements, 36. was treated and released at Pawating Hospital for arm cuts, and Fire Captain Steve Waldren and Jerry Clement suf­fered from smoke inhalation. Notre Uame student Glen Villano, 20, was treated for head , :1ts at South Bend Memorial Hosph '.1 and rele,tsed. 
Curriculum revamped 
(continued from page 1) 

faculty members are "relatively 
young professors who have not 
obtained tenure.'' 

"The assistant department chairman did most of the advis­ing." Blantz indicated. "But more of us will be involved in the advising of students." 
··Hopefully we can advise the students on what courses to choose or what career or field of employ­ment to enter," Blantz added. 
Other plans for the history department curriculum are making it possible for students to know courses a year in advance. O'Connell remarked that some courses will be taught in alternate years to offer more courses in a given semester. 
Moore further emphasized that the cham>es in the curriculum are "on a trial run this year." 
After the conclusion of the 
Volleyball deadline 
Wednesday at S p.m. is the deadline for registration in the An Tostal mud volleyball tournament. 
A minimum of five playerS' is required per team, although as many as eight can be on one squad. The teams may be coed. 
Those interested should contact Steve Slater at 3172 or Diane Merton at 3113. 

(*The Observer1 
Night Editor-Val Zurblis Ass't Night Editor-John Cal Cutt layout-Frank Kebe, Kevin Walsh Copy Reader-Tom Byrne Day Editor-Mary Pat Tarpey Editorials-Pat Hanifin, Mar­tha Fanning Features-Tom Paulius Sports-Fred Herbst, Chip Spina, Tom O'Neil Typisis-Hank Van Dyke, Mary Anne Keefe, Terry Harlan, 
lNig.ht KC Controller-Dave Rusty ) 
1976-77 academic year, the chang­es made will be re-evaluated. "We have a standing committee on curriculum," Moore stated, 
"and they will evaluate the pro­gress at the end of the year.'' 
O'Connell expressed optimism concerning the changes made. "We are hoping for a good student reaction," he said. "Before we passed this new plan, we consulted history majors.'' 
"The whole faculty is excited about this," Moore commented. Further information on courses 
offered  by  the  Department  of  
History  or  copies  of  the  course  
listings  can  be  obtained  at  the  

History Department Office at Room 347 in O'Shaughnessy.



;1. : 
...1111............-. .. 
... 

Flynn, Klein vie for office 
(co.,tinued from page 1) you have to hire one," Tex Keffler says. "We would like to find seniors majoring in subjects who are willing to tutor and distribute the lists." 
The ticket is accenting the social aspect and state that their ideas are "feasible and not far-fethced." They promise to continue Happy Hours and "increase the success of the Junior Parents' Weekend and the fall junior class formal. They also plan to work on a football bus trip to Northwestern or Michigan State, a trip to the dunes, a junior class picnic and a ski trip. They would also like to see if they could work on providing buses to the concerts in Kalamazoo. 
Flynn would also like to see the formation of a placement service for juniors which would find part­time jobs for juniors while they are at Notre Dame. This service would help students unable to find work on campus. 
Finance raising will fall to events 
such as a Mardi Gras booth, a hot 
dog stand at football games and 
movies . 

Flynn says his primary interest is 
to "pry out the 'shut-ins.' If we 
can do that, then we've done a 
lot." Keffler would like to have 
more of the responsibility filter 
down to others so more people can 
get involved in class activities and 
Sue Bailey would like to get 
sophomores to think in terms of 
class. 
Klein ticket 

Mark Klein and his ticket of John 
Talbot--vice president, Kathy Mc­
Elroy--secretary, and Patty 
Kulick--treasurer, claims to offer 
"well-thought-out ideas and a wil­
lingness to provide superior social 
organization." 

''The important thing is the 
organization and structure faze,'' 
Klein comments. "This platform is 
ready to go the day of the election. 
I've talked to John Reid, who is in 
charge of class governments, and it 
is feasible," he adds. 

Like Flynn, Klein plans to initi­
ate a junior class council which 
would take in a cross-section of 
student opinion on several issues. 
Klein would have one representa­
tive from each hall, excep1 
Flanner and Grace which would 
have two each. Elections of these 
'lle Observer is published /llonday through Friday and weekly during the surrrner session, except during the exam; and vacation periods. The Obser\ler is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Darre and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $18 ($10 per semester) fro-n The Observer, Box Q, Notre Darre, Indiana 46556. Sealnd Class postage paid, Notre Darre, IN 46556. 
Monday, April 5, 1976 

MAN IN THE CITY · CONFRONTING THE AMERICAN DREAM 
Humphrey Bogart in 

"DEAD END" 
directed by William Wyler ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM Adm. $1.00 8 & 10 P.M. 

THIS WEEK 
MONDAY ALL DRINKS 1/2 PRICE 
WEDNESDAY DRINK 'N DROWN 
THURSDAY PITCHER BEER NIGHT DANCE TO 

COMMON PEOPLE THE WHITE HOUSE INN 
CLOSED TUESDAYS 
2839 N. 5th ST. NILES 683-9842 
officers would take place as soon as tative. possible after the class elections. Klein notes that he's been 
Klein also has already planned working closely with Rob Tully, the the following activities for next year's junior class president, so he year: juniors parents weekend, is familiar with the job he is happy hours, a class trip to either running for. "Hopefully, we're Michigan State or Georgia Tech, a impressive enough to get elected. class formal, sponsored by movies, But if we don't, the work we've a booth in Mardi Gras and the done will be handed over to the participation in the Drinking lobby winner to help the junior class, by having a junior class represen-Klein commented. 
: There is a new math : 
: IS THERE A : : NEW HISTORY? : 
: Come and see : 
• MONDAY APRIL 5 • • 7:30P.M. LIBRARY LOUNGE • 
: Refreshments : 
50th ANNIVERSARY SEASON!!! 
The fabulous ('18

\&/ Tl 
THURS. NOTRE~ 
DAME .

APR. 8th 

A. C. C.
7:30 P.M. 

Ticket Prices:Tickets Bleachers __________ $3.00 
on Sale Low• Ar•a Daily At the (End Court) --------$4.50 · Low• Ar•a
ACC, 9-5 (SidetourtJ ________ $5.50 
N.D. & S.M.C. 
STUDENTS, FACULTY, AND STAFF $1.00 OFF ALL TICKETS 
~e :u'l-njtle :J.adftlu'J'ed /o-J'~n 
6ea11 i-J. ca'lr.'Nedt>7r :Jlf.FJ~l!f 
Ji:tll&fl.. Jl{t~ f5~inclt chain, 12{f•. 






TIFFANY&Co. 
CHICAGO 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE • ZIP: 60611 • TEL: (312) 944-7506 
Add two dollars tor shipping and handling plus sales tax where applicable · • American EXPf!JSS • BankAmericard 
'I 'I·,. 


Monday, April 5, 1976 the observer 





Carl Jung conference comes to ND 
Dr. Singer analyzes Wm. Blake and Jung 
by PhD Cackley Staff Reporter 

Dr. June Singer studied the writings of English poet William Blake in the light of psychologist Carl Jung's concepts at the fourth annual Jung Conference on Satur­day. 
Singer was a last minute substi­tute for author Joyce Carol Oates who was scheduled to speak but was unable to attend because of illness. 
A Chicago analyst who studied at the Jung Institute in Zurich, Singer has written several books on psy­chology and a number of works on !:!lake. She spoke for an hour to an audience of over 300 in the auditor­ium of the Center for Continuing Education at the morning session on Saturday. 
Singer described the general process of creation and creativity in art. utilizing quotations from works of l:llake and Jung, and dealing with Blake's creative experience in a framework of Jungian concepts. 
Blake was described as a "prod­uct of freedom and liberation" whose childhood visions "seeded his unconscious" for a later creat­ive life. Singer pointed out that an early apprenticeship to a London engravet revealed to the poet a "mother lode of creativity" in his "collective English heritage." 
Later in life. -Blake entered into a "partnership with divine inspira­tion'· when the spirit of his dead brother showed him in a dream a new method of making copper plate etchings which could then be colored with paints. Singer called this a "treasure from the uncons­cious. 
According to Singer, .lung said the purpose of art was to educate the spirit of the age. She said Blake did this and anticipated Jung. "He didn't confuse the unconscious with the ego," she explained. "Hlake wrote from inspiration and vision rather than will." 
Blake also described Jung's "archetype" with poetics I 00 years before the psychologist formulated the term. 
Describing the first phase ~f creativity. Singer said that "a~t ~s an act of faith," faith that 11 IS possible to complete a task and obtain a true piece of art. Art implies the ability to call on the unconscious, she added. 
A second phase of creativity involves "entering into a covenant with the muses,'· which Singer said 

Stan Lee to speak llll tonight on comics ~~ll 
Stan Lee publisher of Marvel ;!;! Comics and 'creator of such legend-1111 ary characters as Spiderman. The :::: Hulk, Fantastic four, Silver Surfer, !;:;
Dr. Strange and others, will discuss !;!; "Communicating with Young Adu-;:;: Its" at 8 p.m. Monday. April 5 in :1:~ the University of Notre Dame's ;;:; Washington Hall. Spons~red by :;:; the Student Union AcademiC Com-:::: mission, the program is open to the :;:; Pli!Jlic without charge. ::.::. A popular guest lecturer at :;:; 
Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Colum-;:;: 
bia Duke and other universities, :;:; 
· ···· 
Lee has written no less than two :::: 
complete comic magazines per :;:; 
week for a period of 30 years. :;:; 
Lee's concepts have been credit-:;:; 
ed with revolutionizing the comic ~== 
book industry by introducing a new ;:;: 
theme--tales of superheroes which :;:; 
are both realistic and relevant. He :;:; 
has brought new life to such lll~ 
long-abandoned characters as Cap-:::: 
tain Marvel, the Human T?rch, :=:; 


Women attack Jung's theory 
includes ''submission to the muses. 

"The only problem is that the muses don't .always respond," she exclaimed. She listed four barriers for an artist to avoid in this second phase: premature judging of a creation, the inability to play with ideas, premature organization of a work, concern for what people will think of the creation. 
A final phase of creativity is determining the content of a creat­ion, Singer explained. Content comes only from a life experience, which provides the "real stuff" out of which creativity rises, she said. 
by NeD Mongold Staff Reporter 

Three speakers attacked Jung's views on women at the Saturday afternoon meeting ofthe C.G. Jung Conference. The session, entitled "Women and Psychology" listened to Sr. Madonna Kolbenschlag of Notre Dame, Carol Rupprecht of Kirkland College and Naomie Goldenberg of New Haven, and featured lively debate following their lectures. 
Kolbenschlag led off the meeting with an introduction to Jung's concepts of masculinity (animum) and femininity (anima). Kolben­schlag brought forth some of Jung's ideas of archetypes and how they may conflict with feminist views. 
Naomie Goldenberg then pre­sented her speech "Jung after Feminism" in which she criticized many Jungians for not challenging Jung's ideas enough. Contrary to Jung, Goldenberg asserted that "Men and women are driven by the same basic force." She also disa­greed with Jung's belief that women are naturally more sure of themselves in eros (about love) and less sure in logos (about logical thinking). 
Rupprecht then spoke on "Jung and the Language of Masculinity." She claimed that the Jungian concept of animum and anima "is no longer applicable to the femin­ine psyche. Jung was unsure of himself anyway in this area," Rupprecht said. 
The floor was then opened to questions which resulted in an often heated debate. Several con­troversial issues came up, includ­ing the relative psychic stability of men and women, homosexuality, and the value of Jungian terms such as animum, anima and arche­types. At times the discussion was spiced with obscenities. 
Dr. June Singer was asked several time~. to come up to the podium and elaborate on Jung's views on androginy and its bodily implications. The session closed late in the afternoon with many progressive and controversial opin­ions having been voiced. 


Bly's poems emphasize dream significance 
by Karl J. Blette Staff Reporter 
Poet Robert Bly startled, chal­lenged, and amused a capacity crowd during a poetry reading Sat­urday night as part of Notre Dame's fourth annual Jung confer­ence. 
Students and conference partici­pants at the Continuing Education Center thought and reacted rhyth­mically with Bly's readings as the program often seemed more like a revival than a poetry reading. 
Bly spoke of dreams both in his poetry and in the work of Jung. "We don't pay enough attention to our dreams," the poet said. "Jung knew this." He then proceeded to read several of his poems which had come to him through dreams. 
Later in the evening Bly donned a donkey mask while reading selections from Whitman's "Song of Myself.'' ''The only way you can be willing to teach Jung is to be willing to make a fool of yourself,'' he explained, stressing the import­ance of individual and unique expression. 
Bly emphasized the need of "grounding" oneself in one's work, meaning what one does must be something which he has person­ally experienced. "Jung was very good at this," Bly said. 
Bly used the examples of "arche­type" and "collective uncons­cious" as terms which are not grounded. He explained that these words were coined by Jung, that others have not experienced what Jung has, and therefore cannot use them. 
"What they want is the concept behind the words," Bly said. He suggested that people describe ideas in terms of the physical world, in order that the listener will come to his own conclusion of what a person is trying to say. 
When asked by a member of the audience to explain his allusions to the moon in a particular poem he read. Bly became noticeably angry. 


I
~ 
~l 

Captain America and Submanner. ~:::::~;:;:::::::::::::;;:::~::::::~Y.!:~·:-:·:~:-:·:-:;;;;o:;:;;;:::;::::*':::::r::..~~~:::::::;:;:;:;::::::::::::::=::::::::::~· 
I
~ 
~~ 
llll 

"It's hard to top l~ll 

the challenge and reward ~:~; 
:;:;


NUPOC offers." ==~ 
;:;:

It's true. The opportunities you'll have as.a Nuclear :1:1 Propulsion Officer Candida~e are far from ordinary. Just ;:;: ask Lieutenant Charles Collier, from Baltimore, Maryland. ;:;: Chuck's a nuclear trained Naval Officer and his next as-:1!l signment will be in a nuclear powered Polaris submarine. ~ Destination: the world. =~~ 
If you think you have what it takes to become a ;;:~ NUPOC, we'd like to talk to you: . . ;:,::.• 
. 1ng you'll reCeiVe In our
The gradua te IeveI t ram . . :;:; NUPOC program will prepare you. for superv1smg. the ;:;: operation of our nuclear propulsion plants on e1ther :;:;
surface ships or submarines. NUPOC: it means N!.Jcl~ar .. 
Propulsion Officer Candidate. But it spells opportunity. :;:;
;:;: 

The opportunity is for real... :~: 
d N A' TV :;:; an so are we. 1"\..v I.. :::: For more information. see: ;!;! 
:;:;

Lt. Bill Hughes, Officer Programs ~1 Bldg. 41 N.A.S. I, Glenview ' Ill. 60026 !:§Call (312) 657-2170/2171 !l;: 

"You want me to explain it in bad reception for Bly and a movie on 
English. I said it in the best English Jung. 
I know," he said, explaining that The four-day conference ended 
the poem speaks for itself. Sunday afternoon with a lecture The reading ended at about entitled "On Jung and Religion" 
11:30 p.m. and was followed by a by Thomas Kapancinskas. 



You·lle
beenthere. 

rtow you 
canhelp
them. 
They've got a long way to go. In a world that isn't easy. But with someone's help, they'll make it. What they need is a friend. Someone to act as confidant and guide. Perhaps, it could be you as a Salesian Priest or Brother. 
The Salesians of St. John Bosco were founded in 1859 to serve youth. Unlike other orders whose apostolate has changed with varying conditions, the Salesians always have been -and will be, youth oriented. Today we're helping to prepare young­sters for the world that awaits them tomorrow. Not an easy task but one which we welcome. 
And how do we go about it? By following the precepts of our founder, Don Bosco. To crowd out evil with reason, religion and kindness with a method of play, learn and pray. We're trying to build better communities by helping to create better men. 
As a Salesian, you are guaranteed the chance to help the young in a wide range of endeavor ... as guidance counsel­ors, technical and academic teachers, as coaches, psychologists ... in boys clubs, summer camps ... as mission­aries. And you are given the kind of training you need to achieve your aims. 
The Salesian family is a large one (we are the third largest order) but a warm one. A community with an enthusiastic family feeling where not only our talents are shared but our short­comings, too. If you feel as we do, that service to youth can be an important mission in your life, we welcome your interest.



p----------..
I I
For more Information about Salesian Priests and Brothers, mail this coupon to:
I I
Father Joaeph•, S.O.S. Room B-536
sI
aBStans OF ST. JOHN BOSCO
I I
Fllors Lane, West Haverstraw, N.Y. 10993I I am Interested in the Priesthood 0 1 Name 
I Street Addr••• 
I City Stele
I 
CollegeAHendlng 
Brotherhood 0 
I 
A"• • 
1 
Zip I
I 
~ 
' Cl81a of . .... ----------., 

-------------~--­

*~d.Q~~~rver
Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is publ1shed by students of the University of Notre Dame and EDITORIAL BOARD 
St Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either Th O'N . · · Th · t d t I d b. t. I ss'ble omas el1 
mst1tut1on e news IS repor e as accura e y an o 1ec 1ve Yas po I · Dan Sanchez Editorials represent the opm1on ot a maJOrity of the _E:dltor~al Board. Ba CommentarieS are the views of 1nd1v1dual ed1tors. Op1n1ons, cartoons and ~rf~g blngs regular columns express the views of their authors. Column space is pa Hur ·/s available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to atb Mandl In 
h f · f · · · 6o a er 
promote t e ree express1on o vary1ng opm1ons on campus. Maureen Flynn Marti Hogan Ed;torials: 283-1715 Don Re1mer
News 283-8661 Business 283-7471 

Tim O'Reiley Fred Herbst Advertising Manager Tom Whelan Mary Egan
Bu'>lllPSS Manager Tom Modglin Edl'tor-ln-Chl·ef Managing Editor 
Executive Editor 
Executive Editor 
f;rlitorial Editor 
Executive News Editor 
Campus Editor St Mary's Editor Copy Editor 
Features Editor 
Sports Editor 
Contributing Editor 

Monday, April 5, 1976 
A Time to Die 
Last Wednesday the New Jersey Su­preme Court reversed a lower court decision on Karen Ann Quinlan's right to die and gave her father the legal right to allow his daughter to die. 

The court's ruling regarding Karen Quinlan is a sensible and correct solution to a difficult and tragic case. Karen is in a vegetative state, being kept technically "alive" by artificial means, with no hope of recovery. Her parents, who are Roman Catholics, gave long and agonized thought to their daughter's predicament, consult­ing physicians and priests before making their decision, then sticking to it through a long court battle because of their love for their daughter. There is no reason to prolong Karen Quinlan's "life," and her parents are the ones best capable of making the decision to end it. 
But Karen's case is unfortunately not unique and similar situations are going to find their way into the courts with greater frequency. 
The improvements in medical technolo­gy inevitably create moral problems that we will have to cope with sooner or later. Tehnology gives people more power, hence raising the ethical question of how and when to use that power. Medicine could conceivably advance to the point where no one has to "die" at all in the 
current  legal  sense  of  the  term,  thus  
leaving  the  choice  of  life  or  death  
completely up to us.  

The New Jersey Supreme Court's at­tempt to vest the choice in the hands of the family and doctors is an attempt to provide a general rule. But in the current state of legal and moral confusion it raises more questions than it answers. 
There is, for instance, a whole series of questions about the definition of death. One could argue (though her parents did not) that Karen is really not alive. The old legal definition of death is based on the cessation of breathing and heartbeat. With the advent of modern respirators, heart-and-lung machines and transplants this definition is plainly antiquated. Some physicians and philosophers suggest a definition based on the cessation of brain activity. The attempt to pinpoint the end of a human life will ultimately take us to 

"According to the computer I no longer exist but if I doa't pay up it will break both my legs!" 
the metaphysical but unavoidable question 
of what human life is in the first place. 
There are the questions about euthana­
sia brought up in the Quinlan case itself. A 
distinction is generally made bet ween 
passive and active euthanisia. Passive 
euthanasia is doing nothing and allowing 
the patient to die of natural causes or 
removing artificial supports for his life; 
active euthanasia involves "producing 
death through non-natural methods such 
as the administration of lethal drugs. 
Some may question the validity of this 
distinction since both have the same 
deadly result. There is the question of 
particular concern for Catholics of what 
"extraordinary means" of preserving life 
are. 
Another set of questions concerns the 
role of government in these matters. 
There is definitely a need for some general 
and legal and moral principles for deciding 
matters of life and death, even if the 
principle is that individual cases should be 
left to the individuals involved. 
In a society so philosophically and 
religiously fragmented as America, those 
general rules are going to have to be made 
through governmental organs. And only 
legal rules are going to avoid a ceaseless 
stream of confused court cases and random 
murder trials arising from the issue of 
euthanasia. 
One could argue that the government should allow a terminally ill person to die if he wishes. Bc.t in practice, this would require complex and perhaps unworkable safeguards to ensure that the decision is really his own. 
Further, this rule would not reach cases like Karen's, who, if anyone, should be able to "pull the plug" if the patient is unconscious? Leaving the decision up to the family and doctors is probably the best way in most cases. But what if the family members disagree among themselves? What if they are less loving and conscien­tious than the Quinlans? 
If the government is going to have to lay down guidelines, what branch of govern­ment should draw the lines? Legislatures and Congress have avoided entering the legal and moral morass, but the courts hav£: to consider whatever cases are brought to them, even if the judges have little to guide them but their own consciences. Probably neither legislatures nor courts are particularly well-designed or well-equipped to meet their underlyng metaphysical and moral questions. 
The questions of when life ends and when, if ever, it should be ended, are enormously complex ones. But they are not going to go away. In fact advancing technology will soon be tossing us even more puzzles--problems such as what kind of children to make when you can tailor a set of human genes or mass produce genetically identical clones by the hun­dreds. We certainly do not know the answers to any of these question~. The disturbing thing is thqt no else does either. 
We do know one thing though. An awful lot of hard thinking is going to have to be done awfully quickly. 
DOONESBURY 
tuHY? JlJ5T11XJI<5 LrxK AGAIN. 
UK& 50VI£T PA-5/R. NJT& 71<015 70 M&!PJHAT lH£ KHAKI /)() YOU &XPCCTON FATI6lES, THC TH& FR.ONTI£1<.? TEUTAU 
""­
by Garry Trudeau 
HtG&MONY? Y&5. 511?, 8/JT HON&Y,tu~ SOWTHIN65 COM& [{}VtP HAV& UP. IF Ya/U JIJ5T 
TAtK£1J ABoUT T/?AIN YOUR 6/.A!!I3ES 
HE6&MONY OV~ 711& FI&WS 8ACI<INMY BUOPJ US... 
O!I... MY(i()[)/ YES, 51R­
RIN6&R5,

CUBANS! 
FRESH FROM 
AFRJCAl
I 


Sign Please 

--and Thank You 

------------~al sondej 
~as~ summel'thanks to Father Hesburgh. I had the opportunity of a hfcttme -I got to go to Bangladesh and see millions of people slowly starve to death. 
On March 17. 1975, President Ford came to Notre Dame at the invitation of Father Hesburgh. Since that time, the Notre Dame President was criticized for a few of his decisions concerning campus life. However. I'll always remember the words of our nation's President. "The students of Notre Dame are lucky fo have a University President who has many interests outside the campus. Largely because of the selfless effort of Father Hesburgh. l have decided to increase food assistance to the poor of this world by two million tons." Ten million people eat that much grain in a ·year. 
On February 4. 1976 an article appeared in the New York Times. It cuncerned the ethical and pr~.ctical implications of the United States using developmental assistance to poor people as as tooL Briefly. it stated thaf'the new policy is a major setback for Uuited State foreign relations. Indeed, it is both immoral and counterproductive: immoral because it subordinated the survival and well-being of millions of suffering human beings to winning votes on transitory political issues: counterproductive because it may well achieve the opposite effect." Soonafter. it was quoted in the Congressional Record. Its author: Father Hesburgh. 
Also, Bread For The World, a Christian Citizen movement drew up a resolution declaring the "Right To Food". In brief. its four provisions are as follows: 1) Every person has a right to food. 2) This right has legislative and administrative implications in the areas of trade, assistance, monetary reform, military spending, and other. 3) All Americans should have an adequate diet and the e-conomic opportunity to realize that right. 4) Food and Developmental assistance should be increased to I "lo of our GNP. and concentrated in the most severely affected nations, with particular emphasis on helping the rural poor help themselves at food developmental projects. It was put into the Congressional Record on September 25, 1975. 
For the past two years, you have selflessly contributed over $25,000 at the dining halls. Thank you very much. The nation is gradually becoming aware of what you have done economically to make this a better world for alL But perhaps there are things that we could do politically as well. 
Tomorrow will be my last panhandling day under the Golden Dome. On this day, you will also be offered a way of freely responding to the problem of inequality. Ten sheets of paper will be placed on a table outside the dining hall during collection period. The sheets of paper will record the names of students who support Father Hesburgh's Article and The Right To Food Resolution. Wedne1.day, the petition will be sent to President Ford. 
All that }uJ have to do tomorrow is take some time out to sign the petition. Sure there is a possibility that nothing will come from giving your signature. But the alternative is to do nothing. The decision is yours. 
Father calls you "The Greatest Student Body in the World", agree: For the past two years, l have been pestering you by standmg out there and the worst thing that you have done is given over $25,000 to poor people whom you will never see. So, students of Notre Dame, thank you very much for being you, I'll never forget 
you. And Father Ted, thank you very much for being you. l hate to think what this world would be like without you in it. 


--------------------------------~-­

!I) 
0 
...... 
0 
..!:: 
c... 
a review by tom paulius, tim o'reiley, gregg bangs, 


and w. s. nichols 
The Collegiate Jazz Festival can serve as a number of 

things. To the unknowledgeable and eager to learn, it 
can serve as an enlightening and learning experience. 
To the jazz enthusiast it provides the best in jazz from 
the college ranks. The players get to perform in front of 
reputable judges. And to those who were lucky enough 
to be involved in anv facet of this festival. it was a hell 
of a jazz experience. 
Starting off the evening Friday was the Big Band 

from Notre Dame. The big band played very well, 
showing a detinitc improvement over last year. Their 
arrangements also sounded better. including some 
outstanding solos by Nick Talarico on trombone in a 
tunc he arranged, "Dcm Ole Bonehead Blues," along 
with the arrangement of Frank Zappa's "Wakka 
Jawaka" for the big band. 
Next came "Moses," a really outstanding jazz l'Ombo from Indiana University in Bloomington. Their set was highlighted by an -outstanding duct Synergy by the keyboards player Alan Gerber (who won recognition as top pianist, sharing the honor with Alan Gant from Chicago State Big Bane!). The bass lines of the duct, at least to this reviewer, showed very heavy influence of the Paul Winter Consort. 
Third up for the evening was A-Fram from Oakland Univl·rsity, Rochester. Michigan. Highlights of their set included a tuba solo (never seen at the festival before). Brad Felts won an award for his solo in the miscellaneous instruments, a superb performance by the dynamite alto saxophone player. 
And then the crowd got to see what they had paid for, an inspired performance. The Notre Dame Jazz Combo took the stage beginning with an acoustic guitar duct of Bill Boris and Kevin Chandler, so excellently perform­ed that it merited them the best guitar awards in the acoustic category. Starting with the mellow composi­tion "Autumn Leaves," then making a quick transition into the theme of "Woody Woodpecker." 
Pleasing the nowd so far, the combo (strange with an absence of any woodwinds) excited the audience with Chick Corca's."SOO Miles High." An ecstatic response resulted as the combo performed rather loose, not as structured as last vcar. 
The end of the combo performance came with Steve Calonjl•'s composition "Asphyxiation," capturing the crowd's as well as the judges' hearts. For their effort, they captured a share of the best combo award, the first ND b~tnd to win such recognition in the 18-year history of the festival. 
The Northwestern Big Band followed the combo with a very well coordinated (or "really tight," as the judges later noted) saxophone section. 
Ending the festival Friday Night was the Freedonia State Jazz Ensemble. an entirely student-run and -directed jazz band. Emil Palla me, director and pianist. ran another tight band, noted for its tine saxophone arrangements. They turned in a rather enthusiastic performance, which endured despite the loss of an all-important high hat symbol, which he professionally covered for by a loose and friendly stage presence. They provided an up-tempo ending to an entirely satisfying first night. 
Saturday attcrnoon's fine jazz music outshone even the weather. Outstanding in this session was Michael Neal with the Wa<;htcnaw big band, who won recognition for the best flutist. A disappointment for some was the performance of the Ohio State Jazz Quintet. Really smoking with their music, their pi<~no was unfortunately too loud. which had a dcvastatmg effect on their wh())e set, shrouding the subtle melodies of their territic horn players. Ending the Saturday pCI'formancc was the MIT Jazz Quin~ct. _not as _tight as last year, having some problems wtth mtona_llon, ?ut some excellent arrangements nevertheless, mcludtng Duke Ellington's "Satin Doll." 
The Saturday evening session played to a full house, 
with Stepan Center overflowing with jazz enthusiasts 
and others wishing to learn a little about, not to 
mention enjoy, jazz. 
Governors State University Big Band took the stage 
after the winners of the high school band contest 
performed. Earl "Chico" Freeman, winner of the best 
overall musician and soloist, provided highlights with 
exciting and energy-tilled sax solos. Myran Parker was 
also notable on her tine solos, walking away with the 
best vocalist award. 

The University of Illinois Big Band also had excellent horn performances all around, but the soloists were not as dynamic as they could have been. A little contrast in their performances was offered by arrangements of Russian jazz numbers. 
Fourth up for the evening was the Chicago State Jazz Combo, supervised by Bunky Green who was, as they say, "on top of it." The Combo was "good," judges were heard to say, as the audience became enthralled with the combo's arrangement of Charlie Parker's "Donna Lee," featuring the best alto saxophone player, John Symarzuski, of the festival. Adding color to their set was the female trumpet player, Paulette Hradnanski. 
In the fifth slot for the festival, the Indiana University Big Band took the stage, directed by the Director ~f Jazz at Bloomington, George Ross, winner of the ovcral musician at last year's CJF. The big band's most outstanding performance was Ross' own composition that turned the crowd on at the previous CJF, "Reflections in Ebony." Awards taken by the Indiana group included best pianist, Alan Gerber, and best trombone player, Flip Miller. Some dissatisfaction was noted at Indiana's lack of timing, for they were not as concise as Northwestern and Fredonia bands. 
Ending the competition Saturday was the Northwest­ern Combo, whose songs were accented by dynamic bass lines. The festival's best bass player, acoustic player Steve Rooby. led this strong point of the combo. Along with the fine rhythm section. Northwestern generated a good feeling among the audience. 
Ending the evening was the SJWcial performance of the Eastman School of Music .Jazz Ensemble, with a great solo by alumnus Lew Soloff. formerlv of Blood. Sweat and Tear\. Soloff also was joinl·d h~· .I udge .Joe Farrell on 11utc for one number. 
All taken into account. it proved to he a thrilling experience both for veteran jazz enthu~ia~ts and tho~· who came to the nation·~ longest-running collegial< jai.Z festival to hear a distirll'tivc part of American culture: the manv faceted creature callt-cl jau. 
(Don' l forget next year... ) . 



the awards 
Outstanding Pcrformam·c  
Big Band Combo  Fredonia Governor's State Northwestern Notre Dame Chicago State  

Outstanding Instrumentalist 
Chico Freeman, Sax (Governor's State) 


Best Composer-Arranger 
John Altieri (Fredonia) Vandy Harris (Governor's State) 
Saxophone Trumpet 
Drums Electric Guitar Acoustic Guitars Flute Piano 
Trombone 
Electric Bass Acoustic Bass Miscellaneous 
Instrument 
Soloists 
Gary Smarzuski (Chicago State) Carter Hatfield (W. Mich) Jim Powell (Ohio State) Larry Banks (Indiana U.) Gary Aprillc (Kent State) Bill Boris & Kevin Chandler (ND Michael Neal (Wahstenaw) Alan Gerber ("Moses" of I.U.) Dean Gant (Chicago State) Flip Miller (Indiana U.) AI Keith (Chicago State) Steve Rooby (Northwestern) 
Brad Felt (A-Fram Oakland State) (Instrument: Tuba) 


Monday, April 5, 1976
6 t~e observer 


~················· 

In class elections 
Five '79 tickets running i SBAEBY'S 

(continued from page 1) from each halJ to provide the ofiicers with the feelings and opinions of the class." Curcio stated that positions on the counsel would be of a voluntary nature. 
Cooperation with Student Union and Student Government is another part of Curcio's plank as is working with branches of student govern­ment and organizations such as the Hall Presidents' Council. He would 
also have the class involved with the Sophomore Literary Festival. A hot dog stand and movies 
would be two of Curcio's fundrais­
ing activities and plans for social events include: ice cream socials, dances, happy hours and a footbalJ 
bu~~~i~~her members of the Curcio ticket are: Mark Huard -vice president. Mary Moore-secretary, 
and Bob Kennedy -treasurer. 
King ticket 

t-shirts, according to King. 
King felt he had a weJI balanced ticket in view of the fact that his candidates are from· halJs which cover both quads. This "will keep the class officers in touch with aU parts of the sophomore class." Running with King are: Terry Garth -vice president, Mike Mul-­len -secretary and Dane Taylor ­treasurer. 
Adolph ticket 
Presidential candidate Tom 
· "I k Adolph is runmng a ow-ey
campaign" in which he is relying 
on word of mouth as his major · publJ·c1·ty "I'm JettJ'ng
campa1gn . 

friends spread the word about our 
candidacy. If people like us, they'IJ 
vote for us," he says. Adolph's ideas for next year are 
basicalJy socially oriented, but he is 
also "keeping it open and looking around." "There have not been sophomore class officers in quite a while, so it is pretty much up in the air what we're going to do. We'IJ have a happy hour, parties and a formal and I agree with the idea of having a sophomore advisory coun­cil, although I'm not quite sure how we'd get it together," he com­mented. Adolph is trying to "get the sophomore class together into a close-knit group." 
Running with Adolph are: Bill Baker -vice president, Bill Brittan ­secretary and Joe Baum -treasur­er. 
Clancy ticket 
You have something to share with the people of the rural South and Appalachia-yourself. Find out about the opportunities open to vou as a Glenmary Prif.st, Brother or Sister. 
For frerJ Information about OPP')r­tunities w1th Glenmary Home Mis­sioners, write: 
GLENMARY. Room 132. Box 46,-i04 Cincinnati. Ohio 45246 
D Also please send free 17" x 22" God Made Me Poster. Shown Above. 
D Send free poster only. 
having a Mardi Gras booth, a sophomore formal and a few happy : hours. _ 
Clancy's main political concern is the formation of a Sophomore 
• 
Advisory Council. He has also 
:
talked to Student Body President Mike Gassman and the SBP is open to the idea of having a representa­
•tive from each class on his council. He would also like to see the sophomore class have more impact in the SLC and other government functions. Arndt ticket 
"We alJ have interest and want to make the sophomore year 'mem­orable, meaningful and fun'," states Peter Arndt, candidate for president. Arndt gives no guaran­tees about what he is going to do in 
i
the social aspect, but says he is going to "initiate class activities." 
His "only political" responsibil­ity is getting a "sophomore from each hall who will meet and talk about sophomore class events." 
Like Clancy, Arndt claims exten­sive experience in social activities. He has been in charge of the freshman happy hours and ran the ticket committee of the freshman •
• formal. Running with him are: • Debbie Cafaro-vice president, Bob 
WORLD'S GREATEST PIZZA OPEN fl:OO A.M. -7 DAYS AWEEK 
BACK AGAIN! SHAKEY;S FAMOUS 

BUNCH-OF-LUNCH 
11 A.M. to 1:~0 P.M. 7 Days a Week 
Pizza • Chicken • Spaghetti • Salad 
All You Care to Eat! 
SHAKEY'S fAMOUS 


SUPER SUPPER 
!ito 7:3a Mon.-Tuc~.-Wed. Pizza -Chi::kcn • Spar,hctti · Salad All You $216 
A•es 10
Care to . Plus a:la u~der Eat! · To• 20.: per year 
323 E. IRELAND RD. 291-7500 2313 EDISON RD. 

Davoli-secretary and Tom Moore­• 289-5555 • treasurer. 

* 
•
: 
• 
•
:
i
• 


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------,1 
Monday, April 5, 1976 the observer 7 _J 
I

Senior slate runs unopposed~ ATTENTION sT. ~ I 
• MARY'S WOMEN ! ! • I 

(continued from page 11 (Student Affairs officer in charge of march ;-,to concentrate more in : OW IS YOUR CHANCE 0 :
cl~s spirit like making t-shirts. • • class governance and cheerleaders) private property so we can avoid • N T • 
Tully has also already finalized decided that there should be an the hassles of damages to bars.~ • GET INVOLV D • 
plans for next year's senior trip to election where there is some sort of A senior trip. a USC trip, a party at • 
E • 

Southern California. choice. Regardless of whether or the Dunes, and a senior movie are • APPLICATIONS ARE BEING • 
Although Tully is the only ticket not write-ins were running, we also planned. • • 
On the ballot. he ·sl not assured of wanted to have a real election," ACCEPTED FOR :
Faainuinu urged everybody who • e an easy win. The ballot is drafted Grace commented. wanted to vote for them or see an •
1 SOCIAL COMMISSIONER • 
l·n a way so that J·uniors can vote Thus far. only one comp etc . h " " •
d open election to: ·e1t er vote no • "yes-no" on having Tully's ticket. ticket has attempte to run a on the ballot or write '·Duke" in • 

DEVELOPMENT • 

This is the same ballot used in last write-in campaign. Presidential the ballot box. Duke is the name • • week's St. Mary's election. It is candidate Dave .Faainuinuis head-for his ticket. If more than 50 • 

COMMISSIONER • 

also the reason why there has been ing a ticket of Tom Faiver--vice . . • •
M k s bl percent plus 1 1s a negatiVe or a conspicuous lack of campaigning president, ar tro e--secretary write-in vote, there will be another • 

HALL LIFE COMMISSIONER • 

on Tully's part. and Jerry Graham--treasurer. election. • • 
"We were never told there was "We're running for two reasons," • • 
going to be a yes-no vote. I talked Faiver stated. "First of all. we "I think Tully has done a good e e 
to Augie Grace (senior class presi-think that an unopposed ticket is job this year for juniors, but I think • SUBMIT APPLICATIONS TO • 
dent) and he never mentioned it," terrible. We're hoping to force a everybody deserves to be able to e e 
Tully states. "Otl:erwise I would runoff where we can expose the run for senior class offices. Our e BOX 966 LEMANS OR ROOM 434 e 
have been campaigning this week-ticket and the candidates. Second-posters show us trying to sing away e 8 e 
end." ly, we're quite serious about the apathy. People are foolish if they • LEMANS DEADLINE : APRIL . • 
Grace said he told Tully about job--we want to win." don't· care. Hopefully, they'll • QUESTIONS: CALL 5425 • 
the "yes-no" vote and that there Faainuina plans to work on more vote." he concluded. e e e e • • • e • • • e e e • e e e e e e e e e e e e e e • e 
~~=:~~is~== =~~h~~;t:~~~~~~ 



On grad level I STONE INN DOCKSIDE I 
d
~~~: SPRING DINNER SPECIALS ~~~~ 
DepartmentS evaIUBte ~~~: Mon. & Tues.: Date Night l~l\ 
by Bill Barnes program and performance of the Bring your wife or girlfriend & she receives anything on 
Staff Reporter department. 

Within six weeks after the ap­menu at Y2 price -Gentlemen pay full price 
The graduate departments of praisals, the reviewers each submit 
Physics. Sociology-Anthropology a report on the results of their visit. Wed.: Shrimp & Catfish ­
and Historv arc currently under­This report is then delivered to a 
going an · evaluation aimed at three member university review All the shrimp or catfish you can possibly eat all 
improving their utilization of man­committee, whose chairman is 
for $4.50 (Let's see who can eat the most.)

power and resources, according. to chosen from the membership of the 
Dr. John .1. Fitzgerald, Asst. V1cc graduate council. 
All specials include a trip to our famous salad bar, choice of
President for Graduate Studies. The report is sent also directly to 
"The department can get a good !1e reviewed department for study potato, coffee or tea -22 lb. wheel of cheese & garlic toast. 
look at itself seeing its strong and and response. The reviewed 
weak points.'' stated Fitzgerald, <k·partment's response is deliver~d 
who initiated the review program to tLe graduate office and the Open 7 days a week for dinner & lunch 
last spring. university review committee. 
The first phase of the process The tl;ird phase begins with a 
hegins within \he ranks of the studv of all the review documents 
department under review. The im:lt;ding the departmental review 
department undertakes an extend­document, the outside reviewer's 









I Eas~:;:~:~~:~u2~:~:~:~:a;~-60: I
ed review of all aspects of its report and the department's re­
operathm including faculty. stud­sponse to this report. This study is 
~:~':::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::«~~~;::
t•nh. programs. facilities and sup­conducted bv the chairman of the 
port funding. and produces a university rt~vicw committee. 
t'acultv review document. The r~sults of their studv and 
In itw st•cond phase this review recommendations arc reported in document is sent to three distin­writing to the gradual..: council gubhcd peers from other universi­through! the graduate offtce. The ties. These individuals arc selected discussion of this report by the by the department from a list of graduate council terminates the distinguished scholars involved in review process. The department that department's licld of study. and the offiec for advanced studies This list is furnished by the Council then undertake implementation of of Graduate Schools in the United the recommendations in a practical States. >equcncc. 
Two to three weeks after receiv­In tic fall semester of the current ing the departmental review docu­academic year the graduate depart­ment. the reviewers make a two ments of Mathematics, Aerochemi­day visit to the department. cal Engineering and English were During this visit the scholars meet reviewed. Thus far. only Aero­with faculty and graduate students chemical Engineering has complet­to studv and assess the overall Pd the OrOl"'S<;. 

Classified Ads 
NOTICES 4,5,6 bedroom houses, completely furnished. Extremely nice real close 
A. & J. of Lyons:W 111 do typing experienced, themes, to campus, Sept. 1976, 9 month Nice talking with you; I was seriousmanuscripts, call 233 8512. 

lease, 233 2613 or 232 7263. 
about the cookies. 
T.

Morrissey Loan closes Tues., April Summer houses and rooms tor rent,
13. ALL loans must be paid by then. 
real close to campus, furnished Hours: 11:15-12:15. Call 7442, 
ridiculously reasonable, 233 2613 or Dear Grateful Fred,8220, or 81 OS. 
232 7263. (And all other wisemen), Shalom and Merry Christmas No. Strom the

Free puppy! 3-and.a-half months 
Milliken Rentals, 282·2089 233-5833 one in white. Many electric returns!

old, male, mixed breed, needs a House and apartments, available for Your favorite fan,good home. For more information, June or Sept. 
Andy I. Bonzo

call Lynda 7668(9-5) or Mrs. Gard 
ner 27 2 6869 after 5. Summer rentals, 4 bedroom, 5 
Kitty-Queen of the Green Beans: bedroom house, 1 bedroom apt. 3 For your birthday we're buying you

Looking for a place to get away on bedroom apt., all furnished, near your very own Frankenstein kit. AllLake Michigan. For rent lodge and ND very reasonable, 234-2626. 
you need Is a needle and thread andcabins during April and May. Only 

a banana. Tried to get you a beaver,30 min. from campus: Gintaras For rent next school term, 5 bed­
but they were out ot season. Enjoy.

resort, 15860 Lake Shore Rd., Union 
rooms, 2 baths, all furnished, porch, 

J,J, and NPier, Mich. Ph. (616) 469-3298 off-street parking, near ND, 9 month 
lease, 234 2626. 
Carmie,Accurate, fast typing. Hours 8 A.M. 

Thanks for Introducing us to highto 8 P.M. Mrs. Donoho, 232-0746. LOST AND FOUND 

society. But really, in the bushes? 

J, J, and NTyping-$.35 per page, call Dan Found on shuttle bus: yellow tinted 272-5549. eye glass lens. Contact bus driver 
There once was a biz bag named after 6 P.M. 
Vo--,

Stereo Components, 20-40 percent 
Who for hitting the bars paid a loll.

discount, all quality name brands, Found: one Indianapolis high school 
"One more drink," she did call

RMS Audio, 321 S.Main, 288 1681 ring. Call Jack 3597. 
In her slow Hoosier drawlM F 12 :00 6:00 

Then bobbed for apples on her FOR SALE 
knees in a stall.

Linda's Letters, dissertations speci­
alists. typing at student rates. 
'72 Fiat 124 Spider. 287 3059, ask The John C. Holmes for President289 5193. 
tor Bob. Committee in coordination with the Hillcrest Road Barbeque Club, an

Set your own hours and income WANTED nounces Its mid-week exercise inselling OL'r line of handmade Indian libation. Open to new members, calljewelry. Free details, Bluebird 
Wanted: one used 5-10 speed bike. 

289·8014, ask for Pipe.Manufacturing, 524 Bryn Mawr Good condition. will pay $10-$50, 
S.E.. Alburqueque, N.M. 87106 call Kitty 1328. 
MORGAN: 
Here it is. Are you still on hold?

HAVING A PARTY? FOR THE Wanted: unscrupulous pilot to drop from the one you love.
LOWEST PRICES ON KEGS AND 
bomb on Laughlin Stables SaturdayCASES ·AND FREE DELIVERY, night, call Ted or Jim. 
The "W here's Blair?" Committee 

CALL DAVE, 277-0948 
will meet Monday to decide his first Need a job but want to help people? name. Call K FC tor details. Rugby Shirts-get the same shirts as 
be a Peace Corps volunteer. Talk to the cheerleaders in blue-gold, green 
recruiters today at Memorial Library To the guys in 126 Castaways:gold, and red-blue tor $13. Call 
MUCH!, from the girls in 213.

Dave 277-0948. 
Interview for an overseas job today. Talk to Peace Corps representative For a relaxing massage call MadameFOR RENT Phil Skiles at the Placement Office. 
Therese 4632. 

, For rent: 518 So. Falcon Street. 
One night stand Anne, Miami all the
PERSONALS'I Completely furnished, 6-room house way...

3 bedroom, basement, drive-in, 
closed yard. $150 a month, plus 
To the St. Louis Visitation Alumnae: Take a hike with Karen. Mocches
Sister Mary Ann died last week ofsecurity and utilities. Call 233-4425. 

and P.R. ·s encouraged. Call 4521.
liver cancer. Please keep her in your 
prayers. 

Approved by Off-Campus Housing. 
Miz Bzara, Miz Bzara,5 room house, two bedrooms, tor 

BAHAMA MAMAS & GENTS: You keep dat room clean since Marent, fenced yard, gas furnace, 

...
The ol' tour director announces and Pa are here this weekend or we garage, fire place, near Notre BAHAMA NIGHT AT THE SENIOR will take away your POsition. The

Dame, 1 block from St. Joseph 
BAR Kitchen Help.

Hospital. 233-5991. 
Tuesday night April 6 P.S. Scrub and work... 
8-J~P.M. 

the observer Monday, April 5, 1976 
Devine appoints Peay to JV position 
Green Bay in 1968 and played for Peay's interest in coaching, con­by Fred Herbst Devine in 1971 and 1972 before tacted his former player.
Sports Editor 

being traded to the Chiefs. "My decision to come to Notre Dame was cut and dry," the new
Former All-American and pro­He retired from professional 
Irish coach said. "Any time you

fessional offensive tackle Francis football at the beginning of the 
have the opportunity to start with

Peay was named junior varsity 1975 season and began his coach­
the number one institution in the

coach at Notre Dame Saturday by ing career at University City High 
business you have to , regardless

Head Coach Dan Devine. Peay School in St. Louis. Despite being 
of what field you're in."

replaces Greg Blache. who left an offensive tackle in college and 
Despite the fact that the prep

during the off-season to join the professional football, Peay was a 
team is forced to practice against

coarhing staff of Tulane University. defensive coach at University City. 
the varsity everyday without re­

··we feel very fortunate in being Besides being head junior varsity 
ceiving any reward on Saturday

able to add Francis to our staff," coach at Notre Dame, his other 
afternoon, Peay doesn't anticipate

Lkvine said. "He was an outstand­duties are unsettled but it is 
any problems in keeping the prep

ing player at Missouri as well as in believed that he will aid offensive 
squad's morale up. "I was one of

the National Football League and line coach Brian Boulac. 
those guys once so I can appreciate

he i~ the type of person that will "I've always had a great deal of 
their situation," he said. "There

atld an immeasurable contribution respect for Coach Devine and I'm 
are a lot of situations in football

t<' our program. grateful that he has given me this 
that are. regretable but necessary.

l'cav won All-American honors chance to further my coaching 
There would be no Notre Dame

umkr. Devine in 1965 where he experience." Peay said. "To be 
football without these guys. You

~tarred and helped lead the Tigers associated with him again, espe­
have to bring out their dedication,

10 a victorv over Florida in the cially at Notre Dame, is a great 
they all have pride. I won't have to

Sugar Bowl: After graduating with opportunity and I appreciate the 
keep them going, they'll do it

a degree in sociology in 1966 he confidence he has placed in me." 
themselves."

11 a-; a top draft choice of both the Peav said that he had decided 
The former professional player is 

NL'II York Giants of the NFL and with five years remaining in his 
pleased with his new position.

the Kansas Citv Chiefs of the professional career that he wanted 
''The only place I've never heard

American Footb~ll League. Peay to enter coaching and he geared 
anyone knock is Notre Dame,"

pla1·cd nine seasons of professional himself in that direction. When the 
Peay said. "Pro coaches I've

football. starting with the Giants in posttton on the Notre Dame staff 
played under and players I've

llJno and llJO7. He was traded to became open Devine, aware of played with have all spoken very highly of Notre Dame. I've never had any negative feedback con­cerning this place. You really don't understand the meaning of an 
institution like Notre Dame until you get the opportunity to coach here." 


%Observer 
Irish nine sweep twinbi/1 against



Sports 
NIU; win 12-11,15-4 in slugfests 
by Rich Odioso 
The Irish grabbed the lead in the Marty Isaac hit a two-run triple for opener with three runs in the first Northern Illinois in the top of the Dave Lazzeri punched an oppo­inning. The rally was highlighted second to cut the gap to J-2.

Hitting highlights season's 
site field single in the bottom of the by Stratta's rocket shot double to ND put the game away in theseventh inning to score Frank the base of the wall in right-center bottom of the second though with aFiascki with the winning run as for two runs. Bobowski then five-run inning as Stratta rammed aCoach Tom Kelly's Notre Dame singled Stratta home. NIU starter


opening football scrimmage 
grand slam over the left field fence.
baseball team battled back to down 

Mike Avallone was as wild as Another bright spot at the quart­Northern Illinois 12-11 in a three­Dallas the night before the Texas­"He hung a curve," Bob explained 
simply.
hour plus marathon yesterday

erback position was freshman Russ as Oklahoma game. logging an incre­Lisch who was 4 for 9 for 49 yards. the home season got off to a wild dible 51 pitches in the first inning Don Wolfe kept the Huskies at start. 
by Chip Scanlon 

The Irish gridders capitalized on Lisch ran the second string offense alone. He and three other Huskic bay thereafter. scattering eight hits
Things were a little bit easier for pitchers in

dear skies and the warm sun as against the first team defense and issued 13 walks the on the game. Notre Dame added
the Irish in the day's second game

they held their first scrimmage of moved them quite well at times. opener. The bottom of the first six runs worth of insurance in the 
as ND pounded the Huskies 15-4.

the spring season on Cartier Field Lisch had Orsini. Dan Knott(27 inning alone took over 30 minutes tifth with Bobowski's three-run Saturday. Despite hitting which yds., 5 carries) and Terry Eurick Bob Stratta hit a grand slam homer to play as the game dragged to 3: I 0 circuit to center the big blow.$and Bobowski
was unu5>ually hard for an initial (14 yds .. 7 carries) in the backfield Stan powered a elapsed time. 
scrimmage. the Irish escaped ma­and. split end Kris Haines as his three-run shot as Notre Dame's The Huskies scored a total of six "We're really playing agressive jor injury, somehing that plagued primary receiver. biggest foe in the nightcap was runs off Stratta in the second and baseball." Stan enthused after them last year. encroaching darkness. third innings although all of them wards. "We seemed to come of "It was a typical scrimmage with The first team backfield was The opener more than made up were unearned. NIU went on to age on the tinal day of the spring some good and some bad," said composed of AI Hunter, Jerome for the second game's lack of claim an 8-5 lead as the Irish hit in trip when we took Ohio State and head coach Dan Devine after the Heavens. and Mark McLane. tension. Notre Dame took a 10-8 the fifth. Alabama and we kept it up today. I McLane his lead into the top of the seventh know we lost our whole infield but I
day's proceedings. "We weren't showed usual all .4 single and four walks brought 
looking for individual performan­around ability. rushing for 39 yards inning but a walk, three infield the Irish to 8-7 and then Galloway think we can be a better team than while hauling in several Gary hits, a sacrifice fly and hit to left by we were a year ago. We just don·
ces today. we were primarily knocked a two-run double past the
NIU's Mark Agnew gave the give up.''

interested in the improvement that Forystek passes. Jerome Heavens bag at third for a 9-8 lead. Stratta
Huskies an 11-10 lead as the Irish

players are beginning to show." closed out the day with 60 yards in then singled in the final run of the 11 attempts with his longest run a came in for their last licks. five-run outburst. IRISH ITEMS Co-captainThe goal Saturday was to get 24 yarder. AI Hunter had trouble Freshman shortstop Rick Pullano 
Mitch Stoltz was in an aut0everyone on film so that in future finding the holes, managing only started the inning off with his third NIU came back though with accident Thursday night and will be 

tilms there will be some basis for II yards on seven rushes. walk of the game (he had six on the three in the top of the seventh to a week with a
idled at least back

comparison. Four players were day). Mike Galloway sacrificed set the stage for Lazzeri and problem. At least Mitch is in better
conspicuously absent, though, The crowd' pleaser turned out to Fiascki 's heroics.
him neatly to second. Pullano 
shape than the car he was in--it waswhen things got under was: Joe be Steve Schmitz who had 45 yards came roaring home with the tying The second game started as the totaled ... The Irish players wereMontana, Rick Slager, Joe Restic on five attempts. Schmitz snaked run as Fiascki poled a high fast ball 

and Willie Frv. All four are his way for 25 yards down the first had with Stratta's double talking about big league style pia:.
deep into the left field corner for a 
highlighting a three-run Irish rally. after the game.

suffering from .minor injuries and sidelines on a run that drew the 
double. their eligibility is on a day to day only appluse of the day. Stratta was intentionally walked ba<;is. 
The defense was its hard hitting to bring Lazzeri. hitless for the 

Tracksters open outdoor 

self. recovering several fumbles by game, to the plate. Lazzeri took aEven though the coaching staff the offense as a result of their strike and then as he recalled it,wasn't looking for individuals there "sticking". John Dubenetsky look­"He threw a low curve and I kind of were several players who played 

season at Champaign

ed at home at his new outside swept at it." The result was a softexceptionally well. Steve Orsini linebacking spot, and Jim Browner line drive the opposite way down ran very well against the first string didn't see, too unfamiliar at strong the left field line. by Corky O'Brien chase in a time of 9:10.4. Thedefense. totaling 75 yards on 10 
safety either. "I didn't know if Frank was closest competitor was 24 secondscarries. One of Orsini's runs was a going to be able to scvre on it," Notre Dame opened its outdoor off Vanderkrats' quick pace.
25-yard gallop in which he showed 

Browner stepped in front of Lazzeri said but Fiascki was deter­track season this Saturday against
exceptional field running as he 

halfback Dan Knott and picked off mined, at least, to find out. "There stiff competition. The Irish harri­
went in for the score. a Gary Forystek pass, turning it wasn't any way I was going to ers traveled to Champaign, Illinois Coach Joe Piane was pleased into a 33-yard touchdown. Luther where they took on the University with the results. The other Irish
Halfway through the scrimmage, stop.'' said Fiascki of his plateward 
Bradley was his exceptionally of Chicago Track Club and the meet times were not winners but every­
Orsini was shaken up with what dash. Huskie leftfielder Bill Harri­
tough self, using an awesome host the UnivPrsitv of Illinois. one competed well. Notre Dame
looked like a knee injury. Fortu­son made a fast pickup and a very
forearm at times to prevent recei­Once again Not~e Dame was Jed i~proved much ~ver last year when
nately for the sophomore fullback it strong accurate heave to home but 
vers from running their patterns. by the underclassmen as Dennis t ey were practically shut out by
was only a sprain that shouldn't be Fiascki slid in ahead of it with the M.k M Ch k these two track powerhouses. The 
too serious. Devine summed up the scrim­ballgame. Vanderkratts, 1 e eyer, uc h' h · · 
w·m d J M' d II d. tg gustmg wmds slowed every-

mage as a good outing overall, 1. s an a~ tran a a P1ace ts one down considerablyRunning the first string offense thetr respective events. ·
"the highlight of the scrimmagein the absence of Montana and 
being the hitting". It gave several Venderkratts and Wills led the The next Irish track meet is thisSlager was Gary Forystek. Forys­
individuals experience at positions Schedules set way for the Irish with first place Friday and Saturday at Jonesboro,tek took advantage of the opportun­they were new to. These prepara­Bookstore basketball schedules finished. Vanderkratts, a freshman Arkansas. The Irish will be upity and completed 7 of 14 for 82 tions are building to the Blue-Gold can be picked up tonight and from Canada who has been improv-against Arkansas State, University
.. yards. One of Forystek's tosses Game, the annual benefit scrim­tomorrow in Tim Bourret's Book­
ing greatly towards the end of the of Kansas, Ohio State, Memphiswas to Irish All-American Ken mage held in the stadium May 1 store Central, room I51 Morrissey indoor track season, ran away from State and the University of Arkan­
MaeAfee for an eight yard TD. 

at 2 p.m. Hall anytime after 6 p.m. the field in the 3,000-meter steeple-sas. 





