
Volume XI, No. 12 
September 15, 1976 
170,000 idled 

Auto workers strike Ford 
$1 billion additional to Ford "It is our sincere and ferventby Donald Woutat workers over the next three years. hope that for the economie andAssociated Press Writer 
He said he did not know what the social good of all affected that we package meant as a percentage can resolve our differences in a DETROIT AP -The United Auto increase over current benefits. minimum of time." 
Workers yesterday declared a Key issues believed to have con­Woodcock's announcement,midnight strike against the Ford tributed to the deadlock include coming before the strike deadline,Motor Co., The walkout, second job security, reduced worktime and was unprecedented.
in nine. years against Ford, will benefits for laid-off workers. He said there was no pointidle 170,000 Ford workers in Declining to speculate on how in continuing talks up to the 22 states. 
long a strike might last, McKenna midnight strike deadline because "We will work toward the said, "We know how to keep in the bargainers were so far apartshortest possible strike," VAW touch." on key issues. 
President Leonard Woodcock said The company's chief bargainer "We're not going to go through

in announcing the strike. Both. also "We the con­staying mid­
said: regret a_ charade, until Woodcock and Ford officials sequences of this . strike to the mght, there's nothing magic about declined to speculate how long ·company's employees and their 

that,'' a somber -woodcock saidthe strike might last. Ecnomic families, our stockholders, sup­in a terse exchange with re­
analysts say a strike of less than pliers. dealers and customers." 
porters.
four weeks would have no serious 
He said he and Ken Bannon,
impacton the nation's economy. 
chief UAW negotiator with Ford,
It is the fourth straight time would be available for talks with 
in the triennial auto talks that Ford officials, for the remainder the union has struck one of the of this week, but that the major auto companies. In 1967, VA W's Ford negotiating com­when the successive strikes began, mittee would be sent home 
Ford workers hit the bricks for immediately and be recalled late 66 days. In 1973, the union Sunday or early Monday. 
struck Chrysler Corp. for nine There was no immediate com­
days. 
ment from the.company.
"We regret that the UAW has Woodcock charged· Ford had been forced to call a strike been "unresponsive and unwillingagainst Ford at 11 :59 tonight,'' to engage in serious bargaining"a terse Woodcock said yesterday. 
during 56 days of negotiations. 
His statement came an unpre­"We are aware of the impact acedented six hours before the long strike might have on our mem­three-year contract was to expire. 
bers, the communities in which

Ford Vice President Sidney McKenna said the firm offered they live and the nation as a a contract worth more than whole," Woodcock said. 

NO Security reports rash of bicycle thefts 
by Jim Bowler ''The best preventative measure Staff Reporter that a student can take," according tpo Pears, "is to register his 
A rash of bicycle thefts was bicycle with the security depart­another one of the bitter conse­ment." For the one dollar registra­quences remaining from the foot­tion fee, the bicycle's serial num­ball season's home opener this ber will be entered in the area by Katie Kerwin weekend. A reported nine thefts computer. If it turns up anywhere Political Reporter occured in the Flanner and Grace in the Michiana area, police offi­Hall areas on Saturday or Sunday cials can trace the owner. nights. 
"It also forces the student to 
According to Notre Dame Securi­record his serial number, which is ty, most of the bicycles were sometimes · the ·only identifiable chained to the bike racks in front of characteristic on similar models," the towers. Complaints from Pears indicated. students began on Monday after 
be registered

noon after a radio announcement Bicycles can in requested all robbery reports to be 
room 150 of the Administration filed at the security office. Campus 
Building, Monday through Friday officials immediately reported the 
after 4:00 p.m. incidents to the South Bend Police Department. 
Flanner resident, Mike Reitz, one of the bicycle-owners, had his ten speed "locked right in front of the hall, with double cables" when he left it Sunday evening. Monday, it was gone. " 
His bicycle was one of seven recovered by authorities. Accord­ing to Police Cadet Zurak, "Seven bicycles were found in a garage at 922 Beale St. in South Bend on Monday at 2:00a.m. However, the owner of the house was unaware of their presence and no arrests were made. 
Mr. Arthur Pears, director of campus security, claimed, "The fact that most of the bicycles were not registered :, " his department Nine bicycles were stolen from the towers are<t over the pastmade matters more difficult.'' 
weekend. 
Drug offenders given one year probation 
Two of three Notre Dame stu­dents suspended last spring after their arrest for drug pos­session and dealing are now on a one-year court probation. The other student still awaits trial scheduled for January. All three are now attending other schools. 
Thomas Aynn and Michael Kohlmiller pleaded guilty this July to the lesser charge of possession while the state agreed to move that the count of de­livery of illegal substances be dropped. The court then sus­pended judgement and placed the two men on probation. 
"The court gave these kids a break by withholding judgement,'' Judge Norman Kopec, the pre­siding judge in both cases es­explained. Aynn and Kohlmiller were tried separately. "This means," he continued, "that they have not been technically con­victed.'' 
The third student, Christopher Cannon, has been granted a continuance and his trial is scheduled for January. The exact date has not been determined 
at this time. Cannon is reported to be attending Marquette Law School. He was unavailable for comment. 
Kohlmiller is now attending Cannon College in his hometown 
of Section Four of the Fair Cam­paign Practice Code, which states that a candidate will not offer to the public campaign material that is misleading or untrue. 
Lugar signed an agreement to abide by the standards of the Fair Campaign Practices Committee and returned it to the organization on May 2'6, 1976. The alleged violation concerns a television com­mercial being aired statewide. 
In an advertisement, Lugar claims to have been instrumental in bringing 8,000 jobs per 'year to Indianapolis during his eight-year term as mayor. His campaign headquarters said the figure is based on U.S. Department of Labor Statistics. 
In fact, only 47,600 new jobs were created during Lugar's may­oral term, according to the U.S. Department of Labor Statistics. The jobs were not only in Indiana­polis and Marion County, but also in the seven surrounding counties. If Lugar's claim of64,000 jobs was true, the unemployment rate in Marion County would now be Jess than zero. 
Unemployment figures rose from 
2.2 per cent in Jan. 1968 when Lugar took office, to 5.9 per cent in Dec. 1975 when he stepped down. The Economic Developement Ad­ministration has qualified the area for public works assistance funds, a program designed to aid economic-of Erie, Pennsylvania while living with his parents. He , was unavailable for comment. but his father. Elmer Kohmiller, said 
he. was "happy" and had no plans to re~urn to Notre Dame. 
Flynn is attending Villanova while living with his parents in Malvern, Pennsylvania, a suburb of Philadelphia. 
In a phone conversation Flynn said he was resigned to his fate and was not bitter. He did not 
blame Dean of Students, James 
Roemer, the man who originally suspended the trio. He said it was not Roemer's own action" and that "somebody put 
pressure  on  him."  Flynn  did  
not say might be.  who  the  "someb odv" ·  

Asked if the three's suspension was a result of their privately admitting to Roemer that they dealt in marijuana and ampheta­mines, Flynn stated. "I never admitted· anything to Dean Roemer." 
The three were arrested last April on separate but related counts of possession and also delivery of marijuana and am­phetamines to South Bend under· cover policemen in their off­campus home. · 
ally depressed areas. 
Asked last Friday in South Bend to comment on the discrepancy between unemployment figures and his claims to have boosted employment during his term. Lug­ar replied that it is necessary to look also at national figures for the same time period; He implied that Indianapolis had a rate of unem­ployment lower than the national average during his term. "We brought more jobs to Indianapolis and kept more people employed in the face of adversity,·' he declared. 
Another document cited to dis­prove Lugar's claim of aiding the employment situation is an article written by Robert S. K.irk, associate professor of economics at IU-Pur­due University in Indianapolis, and published in the Indiana Business Review recently. 
In that article, Professor Kirk writes, "How well is the Indiana­polis economy recovering? Rel­ative to (Indiana) and national economics, Indianapolis is lagg­ing.'' 
LeRoy stated that the complaint to the Fair Campaign Practices Committee is based on the facts. "We want to run a campaign based on the issues, but this clear violation of the agreement Richard Lugar signed must not be allowed to continue." 
"If RichardLugarllelieves he can 
(continued on page 2) 


~--News Briefs--"'""' 
I===========================International 
Canadian Cabinet 
OtTAWA Ont. -Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau announced 15 Cabinet changes yesterday night which included three resignations, one of them a surprise, imd several fresh faces from Parliament. 
Kissinger Is Critidzed 
DARES SALAAM Tanzania-Tanzania's Government newspaper says Secretary of State Kissinger may be making a ''worthless effort" as Kissinger heads here to start his search for peace in southern Africa. 
India Birth Control 
NEW DELID.lndia-Under intense government pressure, more and more India's 610 million people are being sterilized. Some, however, still openly resist and the battle for population control is far from won. 
t:=============National Socialist Probe Ended 
WASHINGTON-Attv. Gen. Edward H. Levi has ended the FBI investigation of, the -Socialist Workers Party, a probe which has lasted without interruption for nearly 40 years and produced no criminal charges. 
Freeze Tax Withholdings 
WASHINGTON -The Senate passed and sent to the House yes­terday legislation to freeze present tax-withholding rates through Sept. 30. 
Hi-jackers To Be Tried 
NEW YORK Five anti-Yugoslav terrorists will be tried in federal court for the hijacking of a Trans World Airlines passenger jet in state court for the death of a New York City policeman. 
t==================Local 
Encephalitis Returns 
INDIANAPOLIS -Another case of encephalitis in Indiana was 
confirmed yesterday by state health officials but they said there was 
no reason to fear a repeat of last year's epidemic. 
.,___On Campus Toda~'--.. 
3:25 pm -~eminar, "selecte'd topics in solvent extraction" by dr. ruth blumbe,rg, head of process development dept., imi institute for research and development, haifi, israel. rm 269, chemical engineering dept. 
4:30pm-scholarship meeting, law scholarships. 105 
o'shaughnessy 

4:40pm-seminar. "regulatory agents on metastatic spread of carcinomas" by dr. morris pollard sponsored by microbiology dept. coffee at 4:15, galvin aud. 
6-8 pm -meeting, notre dame karate club, beginner's classes, new enrollments accepted. wrestling room, ace. 
6:30 pm -meeting, membership in aiesec, Iafortune ballroom. 
6:30pm-placement night, for seniors and graduates 
in science and engineering, eng. aud. 
6:30 pm -meeting, sailing club, room 303 engineering building. 
7:00pm -meeting, sophomore advisory council. rm 
2d, Iafortune 

7:30pm-scholarship meeting, danforth scholarship, 
115 O'shaughnessy. 

12 am -music hour. (640) tom goettings plays jeff 
beck's new album, "wired" in its entirety 
12:15 am -nocturne night flight, wsnd-fm (88.9), with joe viola playing the best of jazz. 
Lugar charged 
(*The Observer1 
Night Editor-John Calcutt (5 days) Ass't Night Editor-Frank 
Kebe Layout-Joe Wheaton Copy Reader-Pat Cole Day Editor-J oe GiII Editorials-John Murphy Features-W.S. Nichols Sports-Fred Herbst Typists-Judy Arenson, Celeste, Joan Martel, Giere 
:-ight Controller-Martha 
~mg 
Mel Anne 
Fan­

(continued from page 1) win this race by fooling the people with a half-million-dollar Madison Avenue advertising campaign, I think he's in for a rude awaken­ing," he stated_. 
Saying he hoped the Fair Cam­paign Practices Committee will take quick action on the complaint, LeRoy added, ''The people of this state deserve the truth. This complaint may take us a step closer to a Senate race in which our 
opponent bases his advertisements J on facts, not fiction." 
Ford's programs attacked 
by Gregg B. Bangs Executive Editor 

Democratic presidential nominee Jimmy Carter and his vice-presi­dential running-mate Walter Mon­dale claimed the Ford Administra­tion's management of health funds has resulted in Medicaid scandals and wasted money. 
According to a Sept. 14 Assoc­iated Press report, Carter, while campaigning in Pheonix, Arizona, said he'll raise the issues of aging and health care in his Sept. 23 debate with President Gerald Ford. 
"I'd like to know why after eight years of a Republican administra­tion, we're still losing 25 to SO per cent of all the Medicaid money that's supposed to be for good health care," he said. 
Carter continued, ''The Republi­can administration has just not provided tough, competent man­agement to make our scarce health dollars go to help patients or to prevent disgrace." 
According to the AP report, a Senate sub-committee has recently documented instances of unneces­sary and duplicated health exams and laboratory work for which the government foots the bill. Perhaps as much as half of the $lS billion spent on Medicare is wasted, according to Senate investigators. 
Medicare pays some health bills of the elderly and is financed 
. through social security. Medicaid, on the other hand, is financed by general federal revenues and oper­ated through states. It helps to pay the medical costs of poor people. Carter also said he wanted to ask Ford at the debate why he voted against Medicare when he was in Congress. Carter stated, "When an administration opposes the basic concepts of helping with public funds to provide good health care for our people, it is almost inevit­able that health care programs will not be operated properly." The report said Carter called for "unspecified fiscal and quality controls, investigations, and reor­ganization in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare." Meanwhile, in Pinellas Park, Florida, Sen. Walter Mondale called the Medicaid scandals the result of "a government that is not in charge and rich folks ripping off senior citizens." 
Carter meets with Wallace 

Before leaving for Phoenix, Car­
ter met in Birmingham, Alabama 
with Gov. George Wallace and 
reaffirmed his Southern heritage 
with a strong commitment to the 
area's indigenous conservatism. 
According to a Sept. 13 New 
York Times story, Carter became 
the first member of his party ever 
to seek votes in Alabama, which · last went Democratic in the John F. 
Kennedy year of 1960. 
"We southerners believe in work, 
not welfare," Carter told a crowd at 
a suburban shopping center. 
Wallace, who has always favored 
that type of concept, joined in with 
the applause that followed the 
statement. 
Carter also attacked the tax 
system, labeling it a "disgrace to 
the human race," and said that 
advantages for the wealthy causer' 
troubles for the middle class ar d 
poor. 
He also added that ''The Sc 1 :h 
has always been extremely pa ri J­
tic." 
Throughout all of Carter'& p~r­
formance, Wallace sat in his wheel­
chair and nodded his approval. 
Most of Carter's statements were 
once championed by Wallace, but ' 
not in such a refined way, accord­
ing to the Tim_es story. 
Prison rights sought by Liddy 
DANBURY Conn. AP -G. Gordon Liddy. Watergate burglar and onetime counsel to former President Richard M. Nixon's re­election committee, is now fighting for inmates' rights in the federal prison here. 
Sentenced to teh federal peniten­tiary for his role in the ·watergate scandal. he works as a clerk in the prison power plant and wages war against prison regulations that he says violate prisoners' rights. 
Liddy, who organized the Water­gatl break-in team for the June 1972 burglary of Democratic na­tional headquarters in Washington, is serving 6 to 20 years. He is not 
Regina Pool out of order 
by Karen Hinks Staff Reporter 

The Regina Hall pool at St. 
Mary's is temporarily out of order. 
The problem is being attributed to 
the filtering system. 
According to Stevie Wernig, vice president of student affairs, the present filtering system cannot adequately clean the volume of water. 
The laxity of hours and the casualness of pool use have kept restrictions to a minimum. En­forcement of showers, essential to entering the pool, was impossible. Both men and women were not required to wear swim caps. 
Another contribution to the filter­ing problem is a leaky roof. The roof was built over the pool two years ago. During rainy periods, impure water leaks into the pool. 
W ernig went on to say that the cause of condensation of water on the ceiling is due to the exh.aust 
system. THe unclean water drips· into the pool. 
W ernig stressed that every effort is being made to repair the system. Student Affairs anticipates com­pletion after the October break. 
''The swim team appears to be at a loss because it is a growing sport at St. Mary's and practices have been temporarily put off," W ernig said. "However, St. Mary's has rented other facilities and practice will begin shortly." 
The Obser\ler is published 111\onday through Friday and v.Eekly during the surrmer session, except during the exams and vacation periods. The Obsenier is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St. Mays College. Subsa'iptions rnay be purdlased tor $10 per semester frc''Tl The Obser\ler, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana. 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
eligible for parole consideration 
until 1981. 
Last February, he was placed in one of several small,· locked cells reserved for disciplining Danbury Federal Correctional Institutional inmat.es. He was accused of being insolent to a guard but was cleared later during an administrative hearing. 
On Aug. 19, Liddy represented himself and other inmates in U.S. District Court in Hartford, where he complained that prisoners placed in "administrative deten­tion were not given adequate explanation for the disciplinary action against them. 
He also argued privileged mail, which can be opened only in the presence of the inmate to whome it is addressed, is being opened outside the inmate addressee's presence. 
U.S. District Court Judge Jon 0. Newman ruled last April that prisoners put in dentention must be given a written explanation. At the same time, Newman designated more categories of mail as "privi­leged.'' 
Liddy's complaints about alleged violations of those decisions are under consideration by Newman, and Danbury Warden George C. Wilkinson refuses to discuss them. 
:  .  ·..-: ~..__;,..~  WITH COUPON  •  
• . PIJT1­ 3 GAMES  :  
•  •  FOR PRICEOFONE-EXP10-3-76  •  
e  306 W McKinley, Mishawaka  259-4171  e  
e  2 blocks E. ofT & C Shopping Cnt.  · e  

• MAKE NEW FRIENDS PLAYING PUTT-PUTT • 
california 
CHARTER FLIGHT AT X-MAS: ANYONE INTERESTED IN FLYING ATTEND 
MANDITORY MEETING: WED· SEPT 15 
7:00-S:OOpm 
IN THE LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
OR CALL: JOHN 8679 ANYTIME·.. 
Liddy refused, under a grant ot immunity, to answer a Watergate grand jury's questions, and he still refuses to be interviewed. 
"My decision, taken four years ago, not to discuss Watergate matters, is not under review," he wrote in response to a request by the Associated Press for an inter­view. 
Liddy lives in a dormitory where 80 men sleep in bunk beds. The prison houses about 745 offenders, about half of them sentenced on drug-related charges. He has not been granted a space in the preferential housing section, a set of small single cells set aside for the mnst cooperative prisoners. 
Happy Hour at the Huddle 
This Thursday on September 16, the Huddle will pr~sent a Happy Hour from 5 to 7 p.m., featuring 25 cent boilermakers. 
A boilerma.ker, according to Thomas Grogan, manager of the Huddle, consists of root bee. and vanilla ice cream in a 12-ounce cup, topped with hot fudge and whipped topping. 
4SAVE•••••••• 
---~-­

Nine states report vigorous primary action 
By the Associated Press Here are highlights of primary 

elections  held  Tuesday  in  nine  
states:  
New Hampshire  

Gov. Meldrim Thomson beat Ge­rard Zeiller for the Republican nomination for the governorship. Harry Spanos, a former state senator, won the Democratic nomi­nation. 
Rhode Island Gov. Philip W. Noel, in early returns, was locked in a tight fight with Richard Lorber for the Demo­cratic nomination to U.S. Senate. Lt. Gov. J. Joseph Garrahy beat former Lt. Gov. Giovanni Folcarelli for Democratic nomination for gov­ernor. 
Colorado Democrat Frank Evans, the only one of Colorado's five congressmen facing a primary challenge, appear­ed the winner over William Grad­ishar. 
Minnesota Democratic Sen. Hubert H. Hum­phrey easily won, renomination for a fifth term, beating Richard Bullock. College professor Gerald 
Russia may undermine 
black-white conflicts 
DAR ES SALAAM Tanzania AP-A senior American official a­board Henry A. Kissinger's plane charged yesterday the Soviet Union is plotting actively to wreck the secretary of state's bid for black­white peace in turbulent southern Africa. 
Kissinger is portrayed as being not unduly worried or surprised by the alleged Soviet tactics-and to 
., feel that Moscow is struggling as much against the influence of China in Africa as that of America in Britain. Accusations about Soviet moves with regard to Africa emerged as Kissenger landed in Tanzania for . talks with President Julius Nyer­ere. . KLsinger's ali-day meeting with Nyerere today will start the secre­tary's latest attempt at personal shuttle diplomacy. He aims to end what he: "ays is already an i'ntensi­fying war between Soviet-armed black guerrillas and whitle rulers in and around Rhodesia, South Africa and Namibia, South-West Africa. Kissinger hopes also to get, negotiations going for a peaceful transition to black majority rule in both Rhodesia and Namibia and to persuade South African whites to 
dismantle their system of apar­theid, or racial separation. 
The Tanzanian government said Kissinger faces demands from black African presidents that the United States actively support the black guerrilla forces battling white supremacy regimes. 
Reporters traveling with Kissin­ger were told Jacob Malik, the Soviet ambassador to the United Nations and a deputy foreign minister, is a key figure in Mos­cow's alleged attempts to wreck the secretary's mission. 
The senior official aid according to official reports reaching Kissin­ger. Malik is personally warning African envoys to beware of Kis­singer's plans, telling them those plans are racist and aimed at preserving British-American dom­ination in southern Africa. 
Echoed by Moscow propanga media, Soviet ambassadors in most of the 49 countries of Africa and in key European and Asian centers are pushing the Malik line in all their contacts, the senior official said. Their message in essence is that Kissinger's aim is to preserve Western and therefore white sup­remacy in a region whose resources 
(continued on page 8) 


Flu vaccines-Oct. 8th 
by Alicia Denefe Staff Reporter 

The tentative date for those wanting a swine flu vaccination is October 28, announced vice­president of student affairs, Brother Just Paczesny. Faculty and administrators can receive the vaccination from 8:00 a.m. to 
10:00 
a.m. on this date. Student vaccinations will begin from 

10:00 
a.m. to 4:00 p.m. The program, sponsored by the federal government, is free of charge. 


Swine flu, a strain of human influenza, was isolated during an outbreak of respiratory disease among recruits at Ft. Dix, New Jersey. Twelve cases were con­firmed with one death. Further blood testing of the recruits showed that several · hundred more were infected. With these f<~cts, influenza experts saw the potential for an epidemic. 
"If such an epidemic were to hit the Notre Dame campus, stu­dent health would be over­whelmed," said Notre Dame Viro­logist, Dr. Morris Pollard. 
Fever. aches and pains, head­ache, coughing and difficulty in breathing are some symptoms of the flu. "These last for about 3 or 4 days." said Pollard. 
According to a recent story by the Associated Press, minor side. effects can occur from the vaccin­ation: soreness in the arm, a low fever or a brief tiredness. However, the vaccine contains a killed virus and therefore cannot cause swine flu. Pollard suggested that older people and those in charge of the community, such as firemen and policemen, should definitely re­ceive the vaccination. ''It is vol­untary for others, but it certainly wouldn't hurt," he added. 
:•••••••••••••••••••••a 
: SMC SOCIAL COMM. : e -.. PRESENTS e 
: AMERICAN GRAFFITTI : 
e Wed Sept 15 Thurs Sept 16 • 
: 7:15 and 9:30 : e O'LAUGHLIN AUD -SMC e • d . . $ •
• a miSSIOn 1.25 • 
. ' . 
' I t ~ , • .. ' 
W. Brekke defeated four other candidates for the Republican Sen­ate nomination. 
Massachusetts Sen. Edward M. Kennedy beat three Democratic challengers for renomination.· House Majority Leader Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. claimed victory for the Democratic House nomination in his district. 
North Carolina James C. Green, speaker of the state House, beat Howard Lee, former mayor of Chapel Hill, for the Democratic nomination for· lieutenant governor. Republican was ahead of his primary rival in an attempt to recapture the U.S. House seat he lost two years ago. 
Utah 

Scott Matheson was ahead of John Preston Creer for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination, while Dixie Leavitt, minority leader of the Utah House, led Atty. Gen. Vernon Romney for the GOP's nomination. Dan Marriott led Dr. Jay Hughes for the Republican nomination to face incumbent Democratic Rep. Allan T. Howe in November. 

'>. 

David T. Flaheny defeated Zaptist minister Coy C. Privette for their party's gubernatorial nomination. 
New York 

Former U.N. ambassador Daniel Patrick Moynihan held a thin lead over Rep. Bella Abzug for the Democratic nomination to run 
against  Republican  Sen.  James  
Buckley.  Buckley  easily beat  
primary  challenger  Rep.  Peter  
Peyser.  

Wisconsin Republican Harold V. Froehlich 
Many students have oeen stuaymg outside in order to soak up those last rays of fall before the cold winter arrives. 

Arby's onnounces a sole that'll break your hamburger hob,t. Q,nner for a dollar. ne three-course meol for one low pr,ce. One d1nner. One dollar One ploce Arby's 
Offer Valid: Everyday, After 2 PM. 
lBreak theHambutger Habit without goingtiroke. Ci975 ~·bys 
toe 

y4tt·llii':~g;~H!l·lll• I
Arby's 

Coupon expires Sept. 26. 1976 
I 
~oupon expires Sept. 26, 1976 ~ VALID EVERYDAY AFTER 2 PM VALID EVERYDAY AFTER 2 PM 
DINNER FOR DINNER FOR 
A 
Rear~y~!:l:~a~1ch I A R~ar~~~~~~a~•ch. I
Cn~PY. Potatoes. Cole SiaN Cf!Spy Potatoes Cole St::~w No Lim i I. 
Dl..fil_..•• No Lrm1•t.••--.L•••._---11!11• North Village Mall (US 31 N) Town & Country Mall (US 20) Playland Park (US 20) Scottsdale Mall -Coming Soon 

' ' 

Collegiate Seminar examined ·restructured
' 
by Karen Hlnks Staff Reporter 

An evaluation of the Collegiate Seminar incurred several changes in the program. 
Collegiate Seminar was instituted in 1954 as an addition to the General Program of Liberal Stud­ies. 
The program is a required two-se­mester course for all liberal arts students except American Studies and general program majors. 
According to Sr. Isabell Charles, dean of the college of arts and letters, a committee was formed last March to evaluate the pro­gram. The committee was com­prised of faculty members and students. The committee found that students objected to the read­ings assigned and the quality of teaching. 
Richard J. Thompson, assistant dean and associate professor of arts 
. and letters. explained the problems arising in having graduate students and law students teaching the seminars. "There is a 'profession­al' and 'chronological' distance between the student and the tea­cher." Thompson said. "We have eliminated this distance. Without exception, the current teaching staff is very qualified." 
Thompson also explained that the readings have been restructured to include a reading list that reflects human culture. The material is very diver~>e andencompassesmany areas. 
"The general feeling of the facul­ty is that to send a student out of Notre Dame with a B.A. degree without having read the classics is doing the student a grave disser­vice," Thompson said. 
The result of the committee investigation also showed the stu­dents' liking of the course. Few took a negative attitude toward the overall program. The Seminar ws rated as being very effective by approximately 54 per ·cent of the students. 
Thompson expressed his feeling that the Collegiate Seminar is the only course offered that is truly interdepartmental. The professor cannot pretend to have all the answers and the result is good discussion and a give and take relationship between student and teacher. 
"I hope the students will give the books and the teachers a chance this year, " Thompson said. "We don't want students to base their opinions on the program of the past." 
Bi-monthly 'Grapevine' to outline SMC activities 
by Maureen Sajbel Staff Reporter 

In an effort to inform Saint Mary's women and get them involved in campus events, Student Government has initiated The Grapevine, a bi-monthly newsletter of activities. 
,The publication acts as a guide to upcoming academic events, club meeting dates, Social Commission 
Dancin' Irish to perform again 
by Kate Smelser Staff Reporter 

The first organizational meeting for students interested in joining Notre Dame's Dancin' Irish was held Monday night in the Lafortune Ballroom. The Dancin' Irish, a drill and precision dance team, will return encouraged by the success of last year's debut. 
According to Bonita Bradshaw, assistant to the coordinator of women's athletics, "The Dancin' Irish are an expression of women's support for Notre Dame, compara­ble to the Irish Guard." The men's dance and drill team carries a longer tradition than the young Dancin' Irish but, in Bradshaw's words, "People got over the new­ness of the idea once they saw us perform." 
At a meeting late last week, last ·semester's members discussed by­laws, promotion, fund-raising and new uniforms. The date for try-outs was left unsettled, and the expected size of the squad is also undetermined. 
The format for Dancin' Irish routines will resemble last year's. Recorded music or the-Notre Dame Band will accompany the squad during their appearnaces at basket­ball games, Mardi Gras, and benefits. Performances at football games were ruled out . because half-time shows were already plan­ned far in advance. 
If interested in trying out for the squad, students, both men and women, are encouraged to volun­teer for activities in Dancin' Irish planning, promotion, fund-raising, and choreography. Bradshaw de­scribed the Dancin' Irish as an excellent opportunity for student _>articipation. "As with any other ~ampus club or organization, one oarticipates for personal growth as well as involvement. The intent of the Dancin' Irish is no different," Bradshaw said. 
news, dorm and pariental an­
nouncements. It also includes 
articles of interest specifically writ­
ten for Saint Mary's students such 
as the freshwomen's first impres­
sions of the school, who's who in 
SMC tennis and even why Lake 
Marion was not filled when stu­

dents arrived in August. 
"It's a central way of letting 

SMC students know about what's 
going on within their own cam­
pus,'' Barb Abell stated, produc­

tion editor of the publication. "We 
hope to put out an artistically 
interesting brochure that people 
will really pick up and read." 
The editors plan to get away 

from the traditional mimeographed 
newsletter by including artwork, 
photographs and a monthly pullout 
campus calendar. 
The first issue scheduled for . distribution on Sept. 10 was delay­
ed because of duplication pro­
blems. 
"We apologize for the delay," 

Conie DePyper said, editor of the 
newsletter. "Some of our first 
articles will be out of date." The 
second issue is scheduled for Sept. 
24 and information about activities 
may be submitted to DePyper by 
callin 494 
1 13LOCK SOUTH OF HOLiDAY I~N 


Students had expressed concern in the cancellation of evening seminars. 
Thompson explained that the evening classes were cancelled in the best interest of students. Scheduled classes in the evening were essential because the classes were being taught by graduate students and law students who must also attend classes during the day. Thompson stated that stu­dents were being cheated of extra­curricular activities because their classes were in competition with basketball games and concerts. The class also conflicted with studying. Evening classes were seen as invitations to the local bars where the seminars turned into bull sessions. The commitees' feeling was that students were being deprived of the full value of the seminars. 
Student reaction to the new change varied. Mark Kline, a junior at Notre Dame viewed the overall change as questionable. 
"I would like to see the return of evening classes because the semi­nar conflicts with a few required courses in my program," Kline explained. "The work load seems to be a little heavy right now, but I do like the idea of students leading class discussions because it en­ables the student to get another viev!point. '' 
Mike O'Connor, another Notre Dame junior, found the revision as being very favorable. "I like it a lot," he said. "The seminars are informal and the books read are the type of books that every one should read at least once in their lives." 
I 

As uranium prices skyrocket, 
U.S. oil companies prosper 
by Alan Miller Pacific News Service 

EDITOR'S NOTE: Alan Mlllear Is a former energy and environmental editor for PNS who now teaches on environmental affairs at the Uni­versity of California, Berkeley. 
Although federal grand jury revelations of a secret uranium cartel of foreign governments and corporations have spotlighted in­ternational price fixing, a related area under investigation by the same grand jury has received little attention: big oil's takeover of the 
U.S. uranium industry. 
Over the past decade, major American oil comapanies-including 18 of the top 25--have moved quietly but rapidly to acquire a majority interest in the business of mining and processing uranium, the fuel base of nuclear plants. 
By 1971--the last year the gov­ernment got statistics from the highly secretive uranium industry-­major and minor oil companies controlled 61.8 percent of uranium mining and 50.4 percent of all re­serves, the latter up sharply from 31 percent five years previously. 
Since then, while the price of uranium has skyrocketed from roughly $8 to $40 a pound, the tide of acquisition has accelerated. Gulf has joined Kerr-McGee Oil Co. among the nation's largest ura­nium comapanies, while Atlantic Richfield (Arco) has signed a preliminary merger agreement with Anaconda, another leading uranium mining corporation. 
Exxon, which hdd 5. 9 percent of all reserves in 1971, has obtained uranium mining leases on 400,000 acres of Navajo land in the South­west. And in Washington state, where prospecting for uranium has reached a fever pitch. Reserve Oil, Getty, Exxon and Conoca are all looking for new mining sites. 



Phillips Petroleum, Conoco, Mo­bil and Standard Oil of California have also joined the shift to uranium. 
Ford Foundation energy expert Thomas D. Duchesneau, in a 1975 report to the foundation's Energy Policy Project, concluded that the extensive control of oil companies over "drilling activity, ownership of uranium reserves and mining and milling ... virtually assures the oil interests will continue to be the dominant force in uranium for a long time to come." 
Oil companies also want to buy into nuclear fuel enrichment, cur­rently the reserve of the federal government. The Ford administra­tion is pushing for private rather than public ownership of the next generation of enrichment plants, and Exxon, Signal Oil atld Arco have all expressed interest in building them. 
Oraganizing the end of oil 
This reach into uranium, along (continued on page 9) 

~--------------

<!rbr 

J!ntgbtg 
MEN'S HAIRSTYLING 
NEW CONCEPT in hairstyling for men 

t 
LOCATED on our lower level with itt 

own private entrance wayCOMPLETE PRIVACY in oil' individual styling units SIP COFFEE by the fireplace in a \ 
relaxed abnosphere HAIRCUT AND FAST SERVICE for carefree cuts BLOW STYLING and blow styles COM I NATION -$8.50 
WE FEATURE RK products t 1 
PERMANENT WAVING by NATURAL MAN $25 
<ft·uccn's 
~astlc 
54533 
TERRACE LANE Tue., Wed~ Sit. 1:30.5:30 Thurs., Fri. 8:~:30 
PHONE 277-1691 
I 

ior NO-5MC student~ on all 
' ' 
4<)11 OIXIEWAY NORTH 272._-fo3fc3 
0 
,
l , " .. 
I 
I 
D~c.o It;.:
{) IJ ~
Y 

-'" 

Mao: the Visionary who called for Rebellion 
In the power centers of the world, down to one sentence, 'It is right to politicians, diplomats and scholars rebel." have launched a simultaneous Newspaper readers in the West quest to decipher the legacy left by are familiar with some of the 
the Chinese giant---Mao Tse-tung. official Maoist quotes put out over 
The detective work is concentrat­the years. The ordinary CHinese ed for the most part on uncovering citizen is quite familiar with these which person or persons may writings as well--and well aware emerge as legitimate disciples to that Mao's words are utilized by carry on the master's work. The. ' one group of leaders for one search seeks the discovery of the purpose and other leaders for Cinese equivalent of the Christian another. Paul, or perhaps a Peking version But the words of chairman Mao of the Roman Emperor Constan­often cherished most by the person tine. in the street come from his unof­
But whether or not such succes­ficial writings, conversations, pri­sor surfaces may in the long run be vate talks and off-the-cuff com­less important to history than the ments. These salty and iconoclast­effect of Mao's long reign on the ic phrases are copied down and CHinese people. passed about hand to hand and are 
Wile press reports in the West knwon to millions. have often emphasized the ppublic 
Few Chinese are familiar withcult of Mao as a deity worshipped Mao's private talks with his niece,by weeping masses, there is a­distributed widely during the Cult­nother side to the magic of Mao ural Revolution, when he told her among the Chinese people that to violate the rules of her scholl may carry more historical weight. 
deliberately and to rebel against allAs Mao the man fades into the regualtions when she returned.
history, the Chinese at the grass When she protested because sheroots will undoubtedly associate his was afraid of being criticzed, Mao name and thought with the princi­told her, "I don't think you will beple of rebellion. To the CHinese very capable in the future (she isdand the world Mao will be remem­now a deputy foreign minister).
bered as the great rebel, the poet You are afraid of being accused ofwho clelbrated the ancient Chinese violating the school system, offable of the Monkey King wielding criticism, of a bad record, of beinghis goldn cudgel to sweep away the expelled from school or failing toevil dust in the world. 
get pary membership. Why should One of the most popular Mao you be afraid of so many things?
quotes shouted by millions during The worst that can come to you isthe Cultural Revolution of the explusion from school. the schoolssixties and taken to heart by hould allow the students to rebel.
workers, peasants and students Regel when you return to school."
under 40 is the CHairman's state­ment. "Marxism consists of thou­Mao asked his niece if she ws sands of truths. but they all boil required at school to study the Holy 
Grand jury investigating uranium price · fixing 
(continued from page 4) with the international cartel dis­
with a similar move to a position of covered by the grand jury. 
control of over half the nation· s coal Few industries are more often 
supplies. has been eummbed up by accused of driving prices up by 
the noted French economist J. M stifling compet!tion than is teh U.S. 
Chevelier as a strategy "to organ­oil business. the world's largest 
ize the end of oil." industry. 
"During the short time. remain­Oil companies have in fact been 
ing for continued oil exploration charged with monopolistic legisla­
(20-50 years)." Chevalier notes, tures in recent years. And in 1973, 
"they (oil firms) intend to extract the· Federal Trade Commission 
mazimum profits from oil in order released a major report concluding 
to finance their own conversion to that ''the majros demonstrate a 
new sources of energy over which clear preference for avoiding com­
they will exercise monopolistic petition through ·mutual coopera­
control." tion and the use of exclusionary 
Whether the oil industry's move practices." 
into the uranium industry has Experts now extimate the petro­
affected skyrocketing uranium leum industry (including utilitities, 
prices is unknown. But the federal which sell oil industry products 
grand jury investigating possible such as gas and electricity) already 
price fixing has subpeonaed over a accounts for some 20 percent of 
dozen uranium companies, includ­over-all industrial sales in the U.s. 
ing Kerr-McGee, Exxon, Gulf. and 
other asking for a broad range of 
documents specifically asked for information about possible links 
Fasting pledges 
.\. '~ ~ 1.

still available 
l·J ~•J...:. r 
by Patrick Cole 
Ito: tntj
Senior Staff Reporter 

Bible and Buddhist sutr.as. When his startled niece replied, "No, why should we read them?" Mao  listening to lectures." No Longer Cowed  you lecture people all the time.? Do you listen to what people have to say?"  
replied, "How can you do transla­ Chinese like pithy sayings and the  Citizen  Yang  may  no  longer be  
tions or handle foreign affairs if you  favorite  American  quotation  of  cowed by authority.  He  or  she  
do not study the  Holy Bible and  Peking students studying Enlgish  ' certainly  remembers  what  Mao  
· Buddhist  sutras?"  These  are  is Abraham Lincoln's clasic, "You  said off the cuff about Bureaucrats:  
quotes the people enjoy and trea­ can fool all of the people  some of  "Their  bureaucratic  attitude  is  
sure  and  may  some  time  use  the time, and some ofthe poeple all  immense; they have  no  direction;  
against  those  authorities  who  of the time, but you can't fool all of  they  are  egoistic;  they  beat  the  
would close off avenues of informa­ the people all of the time.''  gongs to blaze the way; they cause  
tion to the common people.  After  a  decade  of  tumultuous  people  to  become  afraid just by  
Everyone in Peking knows of Mao's remarks that "teachers giv­ politics. leaders  of conservative political mouthing revolutionary  looking at them; they repeatedly hurl all kinds of abuse at people;O  
ing lectures should allow students  rhetoric and radical leaders mouth- their work stvle is crude; thev do  
to fall asleep.  If the lecture is no  ing dogma and ill conceived pro- not treat  people equally.  This is  
good, it makes  no  sense  to force  grams,  the Cinese  people  at  the  the bureaucracy of the overlords.··  
others  to  listen.  Listening  to  bottom  have  lost  much  of  their  Any  leaders  who  take  power  
distasteful things with eyes opened  former political naivete,  They will  towmorrow in Peking withoug win­ 
wide  is  worse  than  sleeping  in  undoubtedly  recall  Chairman  ning  over  the people  below  have  
class.  Sleeping may help  one  to  Mao's inspection tour of the coun·  their worJ. cut out for them.  Mao's  
recover  from  fatigue.  Students  try in 1968 when the old revolution- legacy of rebellion will be ditlicult  
should be given the choice of not  ary asked every leading cadre. "Do  to bury.  

Cou1ncil makes 'value' course new undergrad requirement 
by .1\Uke Towle Staff Reporter 

Beginning with the Class of 1978, a Senior Seminar course on values will be a requirement for all Notre Dame students, according to the Academic Council. This course will be a one-semester, one credit requirement for all under­graduates on a pass-fail basis and is to be administered by each college seperately. 
The creation of this course is a mandate passed by the Academic Council in April, 1975. In sum­mary, the mandate called for the dean of each college to be respons­ible for course organization an dlogistics, and that a pilot Senior Seminar be set up by each college during the 1975-76 academic yfar to be implemented as soon as possi­ble. 
After a year of experimt;ntation, the Senior Seminar on Values has been labeled a partial success and will become a regular part of the curriculum starting with the 1977­78 acad~mic year. 
Dr. Isabel Charles, dean of the College of Arts and Letters stated "It's hard to say just how success­ful the seminar was last year. Some of the Arts and Letters courses were quite successful while others were not. It is clear that student interest waned in the second semester, but that is under­standable. The second semester is always the worst especially for seniors.'' 
Charles added that the seminar is still in the experimental stage ..::?..-! teaching methods are not totally satisfactory. 
PIZZA KING Welcomes back ND students 
Students still interested in pled­

We invite you to try our d_elicious
g!ng to sacrifice their Wednesday 
mght meals may do so until noon 
?n Friday, September 17, accord­
pizza, hot sandwiches and tasty 
mg to Kathy Rost and Terry 
Barrett, co-directors of the fast 
salads. 
program sponsored by the Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition. Pledge sheets will be available at 
BEER Special Monday nights. 
the Student Activites Office on the 
first floor ofthe La Fortune Student 
Center or at the office of Edmund 
Pitchers of Budweiser $1.50 
T. Price, director of food services at the ·south Dining Hall. 
Michelob $1.75
The fasting program for students will officially begin on Wedneday, September 22. 
Tues. nite after 4pm--$11,00 off 
"The World Hunger Coalition is pleased with the student response to the Wednesday night pledges," 
on all large pizzas. 
Rost stated. She indicated as of Tuesday night, there are "close to 900 pledges. · 
For more information, contact K.athy Rost at 8066 or Terry Barrett i ... 130 Dixyway North 272·6017 lt 1696 
~~------------------~ 
"The matter of course orgamza-Fiore, these speakers were busv tion was pretty much left up to each people whome ordinarily had little professor last year," she said. time to spare. Included were Rev. "There was a problem starting Theodore Hesburgh. Universitv from scratch without having pre-President, and Thomas J. Murrin. pared materials to work with." president of Public systems Com-
The resulting loose structure of pany of Westinghouse Corporation. the Arts and Letters seminars gives Fiore added, •'There were also students the opportunity to concern individuals sessions where the two and confront themselves with ques-participating professors. Dr. John tions of values and issues that are a Lucey and Dr. Thomas Theis, dealt part of society, according to Char-with topics selected by the organiz­les. ing committee. Among the topics 
"In the values seminar, students covered were 'Ecology and Mis­clearly address the issues," she management' and ·Morality, De­said. "There are no correct or tente and War'." incorrect answers in class. Stu-Following the presentation of the dents experience issues that arise seminars, Dr. Fiore conducted a in other courses, but with a wrap-up session with about a dozen different approach." students. Their consensus opinion 
The College of Engineering and of the values seminar was "quite 
Architecture is not offering values favorable." seminar this year but presented a Dean Charles is aware of the formalized structure of the seminar need to add more formal structure in 1975-76. Dr. Nicholas Fiore, at the Arts and Letters values chairman of the college's commit-seminar. tee to set up the values seminar, "We're planning to develop a more outlined last year's program. formalized structure," she indica­
" Our values seminar was in the ted. "Materials will be prepared format of a minicourse," he ex-for use by the professors who can plains. "The courses_ran for ha~f of , re-interpret them by adding their a semester and consisted of etght own experiences." weekly sessions of two hours Charles admitted that it has been each." Idifficult finding professors willing 
The structure of the seminar was to take on the added duties of ~he~ ?roken do_wn into plenary and teaching a values seminar. It is mdtvtdual sesswns. In the plenary this interest factor which could part. students were able to hear foretell the futre fate of the values noted speakers. According to ,seminar at this University. 
A 

Tom McMahon 
General Aqen! 
• 

John Wahman 
Agent 

. 

Karen Wentland 
A£ent 
~~ ~-. 
~--~· 
,\ 
.,\ 
Diane Long
Agent 
' .. 

'Tt.·araflt-r \ l'ar. 
I '-~l'IHl''-ltl·r ·aftt·r 
'l'IHl''tl'l'. the 
( ·c,llt1,!t\ la'tlT 
from Fidl'lif\ 
l nionl.itt.·lia.., 
hel·n tlw lll•l~t 
alTtpled. mo~t 
popular plan on 
rampu"t'" all 
c n t•r. \merira. 
Find out \\ln. 
(·all Ihl· 

Vidl'lit\ l niT1n 
{·ollt·1,!~·\ la... fl•r 
Vil'ld .\"'NKiatt• 
m ~our area: 
'JI ') l. cl'd.H South Bl•nd, Ind. Phom• 28/-. .nr 


Chile: brutal police state 

SANTIAGO CIULE As the military government celebrates its third anniversary of rule here, the tail is wagging the dog. 
The tail in this case is the National Intelligence Bureau (DINA), Chile's fanatical secret police agency that is ruining the country's image abroad and in­creasing discontent at home by its severe violations of human rights. 
The dog is Gen. Augusto Pino­chet, who--three months after a military coup overthrew elected President Salvador Allende on Sept. 11, 1973--created DINA out of police and military intelligence units and made the semi-autono­
mous  group  directly  responsible  
only to himself.  
DINA  has  become  a  monster  

with a willing master in its grip, because President Pinochet needs DINA to survive--eveP •= ~~ it has already accompl' ;hed it; ori­ginal purpose by ·ushing any semblance of extrerr : left opposi­tion. 
Now, as Pinochet and his rightist civilian advisers establish a top­down, authoritarian regime and impose rich-get-richer economic policies, they must face the active or latent opposition of a growing majority of the entire population. 
Many Chileans--especially among the middle or wealthy classes--hand initially supported the military regime or at least looked the other way when DINA atrocities were first reported be­cause they expected the country would soon return to democratic rule. 
But with the outlawed Allende parties (which won 43 percent of the vote in elections six months before the coup) trying to put together resistance movements, 
Warm weather in the fall always brings hibernating book worms Chile's largest party (the centrist out on the quad. Christian Democrats) in declared • • • opposition and the Catholic Church Ford Will makeflrstcam palg nin open conflict, Pinochet:s survi~al 
t • d w h-t
t • e aS
rIp 0 U S I 
President Ford is making his first campaign trip outside Waspington, a brief jaunt for a speech at his alma mater that will take him within a few miles of where Jimmy Carter is to make a major address. 
Ford. who has been under fire from Carter for staying in the White House instead of meeting voters. says there will be "some surprises·' in his speech tonight on domestic and foreign policy at the University of Michigan. 
At the same time Ford is to speak at Ann Arbor. Democratic nominee Carter is to deliver what aides called "a major speech" to a state AFL-CIO convention about 30 miles away in the Detroit suburb of Dearborn. Mich. 
Ford is to depart immediately after his speech adn his aides savs he may not leave Washington again 
Board of Regents at SMC to meet 
by Chris Smith Assistant Managing Editor 

The St. Mary's College Board of Regents will meet this weekend at the College. The board is divided into committees, which will discuss development, education, student affairs and the budget. 
St. Mary's College Student Body President. Mary Lou ... ,B-ilek, a member of the Board of Regents, stated that the board would discuss routine matters dealing with the running of the College. She added that the status of parietals would be discussed at the next board meet­ing in January. 
Four other student body officers, Kathy Coyne, vice-president for academic .affairs;~ May Ann Stoltz, vice-president for student affairs; Patty Schirmer, development com­missioner; Patty Schirmer, de­velopment commissioner; and Laura Costanzo, student body trea­surer, will meet with various board 
I n Q 0 n 

all month except to fly to Philadel­
phia for the first of his debates with 
Carter. 
Carter started out in Arizona on Tueday and worked his way to Montana and the Dakotas. Both he and his running mate, Sen. Walter Mondale. accused the Ford ad­ministration of poor management that has turned the Medicare programe into a "National Dis­grace.·· 
Mondale and Carter were to join forces today for appearances in Minnesota. 
Ford spent the day at the White House, but his running mate, Sen. Bob Dole, was campaigning in the West. 
In Pheonix, Ariz., Carter said, 'Td like to know why after eight years of a Republican administra­tion, we're still losing 25 to SO per cent of al the Medicaid money that's supposed to for good health care." 
The Democratic nominee said he wanted to know why Ford, as a congressman, had voted against Medicare, adding "When and ad­ministration opposes the basic concepts of helping with public funds to provide good health care for our people, it is almsot inevit­able that health care progrmss will not be operated properly.'' 
And Carter continued to twit Ford for his stay-at-home campaign strategy, scoffing at Ford's conten­tion that he won't leave Washing­ton until Congress adjourns be­cause he is afraid he House and Senate will "go off the deep end" without him. 
Carter noted that Ford wasn't afraid of leaving Congress alone in Washington during the Republican presidential primaries, recalling that Ford traveled extensively to such states as Mississippi in order to win delegates from Ronald Reagan. 
Turning to his plan for a national health care system, Carter said: "Our country's ready for it, you're ready for it, I'm ready for it, and 
committees. ·' we're going to have it. 
DINA's most important target, the proportion is said to be one in 15. 
In human rights reports com­piled by various international or­ganizations--including the Human Rights Commissions of both the United Nations and the Organiza­tion of American States--DINA has been named responsible for institu­tionalizing torture. Prisoners who survived DINA's secret torture ceenters were transferred to open prison camps have brought out gory accounts of DINA's methods.$ 
In one such report, smuggled out of the Pirque women's prison in late 1975, 66 out of 90 women replied to a uestionnaire about their experiences while being held incommunicado in DINA interro­gation centers. The accounts were written on small scraps of toilet paper and compiled by women prisoners in the relative privacy of women's toilets. 
The women described 11 differ­ent kinds of torture to which they had been submitted. Forty-six wo­men reported being tortured with electric shock; four hanging by arms; three hanging and electri~ city; five immersion in water; 47 beating; 11 "the telephone"-­heavy blows to both ears that frequently result in broken ear drums and deafness; five rape; two broken bones from being run over by cars; seven drugs and hypnosis; one beating with a chain; and ten forced standing for long periods without sleep. 
Thriteen women said they had 

Internally, DINA has imposed its tentacles_on virtually every element of community life--the university, the law profession, unions and the church. 
In August, for example, DINA orgnized a demonstration against three progressive chilean bishops, known for their anti-junta senti­ments, who had been expelled from a church meeting in Ecuador. 
Unfortunately for DINA and Pinochet, the bishops recognized three of the DINA agents and identified them publicly. The revelation and the Church's subse­quent excommunication of the a­gents--the first such retaliation against the junta--caused the pub­lic consternation and even led the ultra-conservative daily El Mercu­rio to call for an investigation. 
But DINA's tactics go far beyond simply organizing rock-throwing crowds. After three years of what the Chilean military calls ''internal war," a pattern of Dina operations has emerged. 
The pattern mcludes periodic mass arrests of suspected activists and their families, interrogation-­usually under torture in secret DINA centers--and, most tragic of all, hte disappearance and pre­sumed murder of up to one-third of those arrested. 
ROCCO'.S 
BARBERS & HAIRSTYLISTjS 0 
';· ... 
I(. I I·:. 1\ 

... ' ! '0 
New LaFortune hours to be implemented 
by Pete NeweU Staff Reporter 

The LaFortune Student Center will push back its closing hours until 2 a.m. on Friday nights. The new hours will go into effect "sometime before October break," according to John Reid, assistant director of student activities. 
Previously, the Student Center closed its doors at 12:30 a.m. 
Reid stated that before the new schedule is implemented several problems must be ironed out. Due to several thefts last year, security guards must be present at all time. The longer hours mean a larger bill for security, so the money must be 
To pass bill 
found somewhere. Also, it is uncertain whether the whole build­ing will be open or just the basement portion, the Rathskellar. Reid added that. depending on student response to the new hours, consideration will be given tc extending the hours even further. 
Last year,The Social Space Com­mission proposed that the Student Center be opened 24 hours. The SLC approved the recommendation but the proposal was never imple­mented. Mike Casey, SLC presi­dent, seemed supportive of the 24 hour lounge, calling it a "good idea.'' He added that the proposal will probably come before the SLC again this fall. 
Congress hurries 
WASHINGTON. AP-Itme IS run­
ning short for the House and 
Senate to reach a compromise on 
legislation that would renew the 
federal revenue-sharing program 
that has channeled billions of 
dollars to local governments to use 
pretty much as they wish. 
Members of a House and Senate 
conference committee are faced 
with a $16.3-billion difference in 
S-0-S program seeks volunteers· 
The women's Committee on Sex Offenses is seeking prospective volunteers for S-0-S (Sex Offense Staff), an outreach program for victims of sex offenses and their families. 
S-0-S is a confidential, emotional support and information service available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week through Hotline. The nature of S-0-S is crisis intervention. The volunteers work in pairs and can accompany a victim at all points of crisis: hospital. police station, prosecutor's office and court. 
The service is free to any person who calls Hotline. Although the outreach service is limited to St. Joseph County, the volunteers have had telephone contact with people from Michigan and other nearby Indiana counties. 
All volunteers are screened and trained. A ter-session training program will begin in October. The sessions focus on the needs of victims, pshycholgically and emo­tionally. Volunteers are educated in the areas of medical and legal procedures, referrals, and intake procedures. All areas of sexual abuse are discussed; from rape to child molestation to indecent ex­posure. Volunteers are prepared to handle situations which they might encounter as outreach workers. 
Only after successfully com­pleting the training, are volunteers accepted to the staff. The staff currently consists of 28 male and female volunteers. Anyone in­terested in learnin_g more about the two revenue-sharing bills, and they have 2 1/2 weeks to resolve differences before adjourning Oct. 2. 
The Senate on Tuesday voted 80 to 4 for a 5 :Y. -year extension of revenue-sharing that would return $41.2 billion to state and local governments. The House version, passed last June, would continue the program for 3314 years at a cost of $24.9 billion. 
Paul Myer, the White House staff member who worked closely with members of the House and Senate seeking to continue the program, said, "We like the Senate Bill." He predicted that few "on­erous" changes would be made in the House-Senate bill." He pre-
My main concern is, that they have to act quickly." he said. 
In a statement issued after the Senate vote, the White house said President Ford was "extremely pleased" by the bill's passage. He urged the House and Senate to work quickly on a compromise s he ccan have hte Iegilation on his desk before adjournment. 
"To do less would only serve to aggravate the fiscal problems of state and local governments and undermine ecomomic recovery," 
said. 

Vietnam considered 
UNITED NATIONS, N.Y. AP­The Security Council agreed ye~­terday to postpone debate on U.N. membership for Vietnam until after the U.S. presidential election in an apparent effort to avoid an American veto. 
By returning to the question af<cr President Ford has won a new term or Democratic candidate Jimmy Carger has been elected, coun•:il members evidently hope the U.S. government will no longer be under domestic poEtical pres­sure to maimain a hard line against Hanoi. 
The French delegation initiated the postponement with the re­ported concurrence of the Vietna­mese. but informed U.N. sources said American oficials asked French officials last week in Paris to seek the postponement. U.S. officials at the United Nations denied this. 
ANY COLLEGE OF SCIENCE STUDENT INTER­
ESTED IN REPRESENTING THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE .ON THE ACEDEMIC COUNCIL SHOULD SUBMIT NAME AND BRIEF STATE­MENT OF PURPOSE BEFORE OCT. 8th TO: 
STUDENT CHAIRMAN 
THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
STUDENT COUNCIL c/e THE OFFICE OF DEAN OF SCIENCE RM 229 NEIWLAND SCIENCE 
St>cretary of State Henry A. Kissinger was in Paris last week. 
U.S. Ambassador William W. Scranton announced in Washington Monday after a meeting with the President he had been directed to vote the Vietnamese application for 
U.N. membership because Hanoi ha~ faikd to account for about 800 
by UN 
Ford's decision to block Vietnam 
membership. 
It had been expected all mem­bers of the IS-nation Securitv Council except the United States would support Vietnam's applka­~ion. But the United States is ont· or five maj~r. powers with veto rights over dectswns of the council. The 

CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS 
Applications for considerations this year'··s Student Governmen 
Budget can be picked up now the Government Offices 
Deadline for completion is Wed., Sept 22. 
128 north michigar1 str~eet downtown south bend. 234-1431 
STARTING FIRST 2 DRINKS ARE 1/2 PRICED Wednesd21yto 
THIS WEEK S21turdny 
th1s wednesday septemb~r 15. chicago blues n1ght 
blyThER SMiTh ANd ThE NEW hoUSE ROCkERS bANd 
this weekend. friday & saturday. september 17 & 18 FIRST BLUEGRASS BAND EVER TO PLAY CARNEGIE HALL 
EARl TAyloR ANd TltE STONEY MOUNTAiN boys 
watch for cLEAN GENE's Rhyrlt~ &blues EXpRESS mondeiy nghts 

~---­

The Observer is published ion of a majority of the Edito­Thomas O'Neil by studentl. of the Univer­rial Board. Commentaries are Dan Sanchez sity of Notre Dame and St. the views of their authors. 
Chris Smith Mary's College. It does not Column space is available to Gregg Bangs necessarily reflect the policies all members of the community, Val Zurblis of either institution. The news and letters are encouraged to Pat Hanifin 
is reported as accurately and promote the free expression of Bob Mader as objectively as possible. varying opinions on campus. Maureen Flynn Editorials represent the opin-Marti Hogan 
Business Manager Tom Fronczak Don Reimer Advertising Manager Mike Miller Tim O'Reiley Photo Editor Tony Chifari Fred Herbst · Production Manager Martha L. Fanning 
Wednesday, September 15, 1976 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor Asst. Managing Ed. Executive Editor Executive Editor Editorial Editor Exec. News Editor Campus Editor St. Mary's Editor Copy Editor Features Editor Sports Editor 

DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
I t/Nt:JEI5TANIJ 771117; 
GOm?Na<!ANO I 7HINK THE PROPOSAlS I HAVE PR/3PAREP/Ill£ RESPON­
5/V& 70 7llff KIN571C5 
OF MOIJE!?N "­50CJAL. EVOW­T/ON/ 
Give a Damn, SMC 
In past years, St. Mary's student body proposal. You should not ne~lect these 
has been sadly apathetic. This apathy was surveys, thinking that your opiniOn will not 
more than evident when less than ten matter. You are the student body; 
percent of the student body bothered to parietals is your issue. Student govern­
vote in last year's student government ment is willing to act as your voice but can 
elections. However, the large crowd only do so if it receives your response.
present at the recent parietal meeting is an Attending the parietal meeting was a step 
indication that students finally realize that in the right direction, but you cannot stop
they can and should push for reform of there. A tremendous amount of time and 
school policies. It also demonstrates the effort will be necessary to prepare a sue-­
new life in this year's student government, cesful proposal toextend parietals. Student 
themeeting's organizer. Government cannot,nor is it their respon­
This public showing of student govern­sibility to, do it alone. The proposal must ment and students working together could come from a joint effort of the committee, be the first of many. In a student govern­student government and the student body. ment survey conducted last year soon after The plan should be ready for the Board of SM C Student Body President Mary Lou Regents when they meet in January, but Bilek took office, eighty percent of the for this to happen. action must be taken students responding disliked the present now. parietal policy. Acting on this response, This issue has sparked general interest 
Bilek's administration appointed a com­because the limited parietals are unpopu­mittee to review and research parietals. lar. However, there will be many other Dean Rice has also offered her assistance, issues directly or indirectly affecting you opening her "library" of information this year. Bilek and her staff have been concerning parietals to anyone interested. admirably (and unusually) active but to 
During the course of the semester, the succeed, they must receive more of the committee will be distributing survey after same support that they received Sunday survey to compile information for their night. If you do not give a damn no one 
else will. 

P.O. Box Q 
Dear Editor: us to His garden of delight and is the coming Kingdom nothing 
more than an endless theologicalUsually one can only admire the leading us into pastures where debate?
gentle wisdom of Fr. Robert Grif­lions and shaep gambol together, 
fin's humane epistles, but vehem­will He deprive the earth which we On September 7th--the 1,SOOth ent exception must be taken to an inherit of all of the beauty which anniversary of the fall of the 
Western Roman Empire, a dayinstance of theological casuistry in animal life can contribute, leaving 
omens curse--my friend, advisor, confi­the letter he wrote to God on 10 us with no companions other than a which the stars and the 
September. Simply because Darby few mangy lions and some dumb dant, poker buddy, and family
O'Gill happens to be a cocker sheep? spaniel, and another poor dog On the eighth Day, will He really parakeet, by name Basil the Great 
(or, more familiarly, Basil Byrd),named Poochie shared Darby's perfect creation be revoking the passed on. Although this articulate canine ancestry, Fr. Griffin argues mandates which He uttered on the and witty parakeet was a ghost­that neither Darby's friends nor Fifth and early Sixth Days of writer for most of my publication,
Poochie's may expect to meet them creation--and, indeed, negate the again in the Lord's coming King­Third Day as well, because green researcher for most of my course 
lectures, and always a stimulating
herbs and fruit trees can't last very 
dom. 
and insightful conversationalist,While acknowledging that Fr. long unless bumblebees and hum­both he and I accepted his avianGriffin's premises ar correct--ani­mingbirds keep fooling around with nature with serene simplicity, andmals are not persons, and there is them? 
neither of us was wont to sentimen­no need to sentimentalize them into During those boring eons when talize his parakeetness as if hehuman beings--must one necessar­we must sit on clouds and strum were merely human. Yet I firmlyily agree with his bitter conclusion, harps, will God never entertain us believe that when I arrive at thethat beyond ' death "Darby and with the sight of a white bunny threshold of the pearly gates, IPoochie will have to shift for hippity-hopping on very importam shall find Basil the Great perchedthemselves''? business, or permit a canary's song on St. Peter's shoulder, gleefullyWhen God comes to dwell with to make our music harmonious, or _chirping a litany of welcome. 
men, recreating for us His new let us squash a mosquito who is Heaven and new earth, restoring feasting on our ankle? God forbid: Bob Kerby 

opinion!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
Bishops Blow It 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~~ fr. biII toohey 
Understandably, millions of couraged" by Ford's stand on Catholics were stunned and deeply abortion. But last year the Presi­disappointed at the behavior of six dent supported 300,000 abortions. leading bishops of the U.S. Catho­When the bishops complained of 
lic Conference at their recent this, Ford threw them a bone. He 
meeting with Jimmy Carter. As said he would order a study of the 
one prominent Catholic leader put matter. 
it, "the bishops just blew it; they Ford also told the bishops that he 
are so politically naive it isn't even favored a constitutional amend-· 
funny." ment that would give the states the 
What happened? The bishops' right to decide to outlaw abortion if spokesman, Archbishop Joseph they wish. However, since about Bergardin, announced to the press half the states have already enac­
that Candidate Carter's unwilling­ted permissive abortion laws, it is ness to adopt unequivocally the improbable that such an amend­bishops' position C)n a constitution­ment would be ratified by the 
al amendment to reverse the necessary three-quarters of the Supreme Court's abortion decis­states. The bishops seemed not to ions was unacceptable. It is not understand this. They emphasized very hard to interpret this to mean, they were pleased to be able to "His abortion policy is unacceptab­support any such amendment. le, so Carter should not receive the Ford executed yet another "end­vote of a conscientious Catholic." run" on the bishops. They were 
The bishops have thus painted extremely pleased, according to the themselves into a corner. They press, when Ford said that his 
have opted for a no-win position. If position coincided with the Repub­Carter loses, they will be blamed lican platform, which the bishops for being at least partially respon­had hailed. Again the bishops sible. If Carter wins, they can just missed the contradiction: The 
forget about having any influence Republican plank, according to the over U.S. executive decisions for common interpretation, goes much the next four years ... or more. further than the states-rights amendment Ford says he supports. How can supposedly intelligent All in all, Ford made out much 
church leaders so misrepresent me better than Carter. For example, interests of their church? Abortion seeking to be conciliatory, Carter policy is a moral issue and church told the bishops he did not rule out leaders should address it. Yet, to the possibilitythat some acceptable 
deal with this one issue as if it anti-abortion amendment might 
were the Catholic issue -the later be drafted. But even this was 
"price" of the "Catholic vote" --is not good enough for them. They an insult. The bishops seem to be persisted in their "all-or-nothing" applying a single-issue test to approach. candidates for public office. A Perhaps the greatest tragedy in candidate's opposition to an anti­the bishops' militant rejection of abortion constitutional amendmant Carter (columnist David Murray disqualifies him, the bishops seem reported that the bishops • 'tongue­to be suggesting, from Catholic lashed'' him) is that he and the support at the polls. Democratic platform espouse num­
"By what theological, not to say erous issues that substantially em­doctrinal, reasoning does a Catho­body stated positions of the Amer­lic arrive at that principle of ethical ican Catholic bishops on policies of ' judgment?'' askt!s theologian Rich­social justice and world peace. 
ard McBrien. "Millions of good Unfortunately, the prelates did not Catholics, including not a few see fit to acknowledge and appreci­bishops and many theologians, are ate this significant convergence. themselves opposed against abor­Most of these issues are in the tion." This should hardly surprise Democratic platform, but the bish­anybody. After all. there hasn't ops didn't like one item; and so all even been an a'mendment sugges­these other pressing issues that ted that has a ghost of a chance of also go to the heart of human life passage. were largely ignored. The bishops 
Unfortunately, while claiming flunked Carter and the Democratic non-partisanship, the bishops have party. In so doing, at precisely the given the false and unfair impres­moment they could have accredited sion that Carter is much worse on themselves so magnificently, they abortion than Ford. After their dealt themselves (and their al­recent meeting with the President, ready-deteriorated credibility) a the bishops said they were "en-mortal blow. 

------------~-------~ _, 
Quiet, but graceful splendor...... . 

by Gregg B. Bangs 

Imagine being an outsider residing for the summer in the Evanston-Wilmette area of Illinois and deciding to take a bicycle ride shortly after you arrive. Not being familiar with the area, you ~et onto Sheridan Road, a north-south thoroughfare that parallels Lake Michigan. 
Sheridan Road, as is all of Evanston, is dominated by half-acre plots that are practically filled by houses built during the twenties. Back then, the plots may have looked merely crowded, but with forty to fifty years of tree and shrub growth added on, the houses now look ridiculously out of proportion to the size of property they-stand on. · 
After passing Evanston General Hospi­tal. you head north toward the Evanston­Wilmette Town border when you see a large expanse of grass on your left. Your eyes follow the grass up to a well-cropped hedge which forces you to look up--and up--in utter amazement. · 
What on God's name is this beautiful, seemingly Oriental type temple doing in the middle of middle America'? And what is the thing anyway? Your curiosity forces you to explore and the trip is well worth it for the Bahai House of Worship is as interesting as it is beautiful. 
The House of Worship was dedicated to public use in 1953. Since then over three million people have visited the structure, which also boasts lovely gardens to match the impressive splendor of its architecture. 
Although deemed a house of worship, there are no outward signs of this building resembling a church or synagogue any way. There are no pulpits, no sermons, no 
Sweet Southside 
by Dominick Salemi 
I remember the first time I heard "I Don't Want To Go Home," I was sitting in some cheap little room with a few of my friends staring at the lodge trophies on the bar and thinking about the date I blew with some sorority. type the week before, why my life was such a failure, and just feeling sorry for myself. All of a sudden from out of the Juke Box. I heard some fine sounding slide and brass with this oh too subtle backdrop of strings. sweep through the bar. 
But it was the chorus that really knocked 
me out: 
I know we had to try 
To reach up and touch the sky, 
Baby whatever happened to you and I 
Hey, I don't want to go home 


In four simple lines I caught all the hope and excitement of getting some unknown girl's attention and knowing at that instant that the sick, funny feeling in the pit of your stomach means you ·don't want to be anywhere or with anyone else but her and then just as suddenly becoming hopelessly lost because you see that she has turned away, leaving you alone again. It wa's at once an exhilarating and depressing sensa­tion. provoking emotions that I could barely explain, much less handle. 
So I listened, and when the song slowly faded with the singer pleading for his girl to come back, I realized that this guy, whoever he was, and I, were attuned to each other. After ascertaining what B12 was on the box, I stumbled out of the bar, oblivious to all my friends who were in the process of drinking themselves into a stupor, and went into the first record store I could find and bought this album. 
Needless to say, I was not disappointed. The Ip was everything I knew it would be only better. Now, if you don't believe it possible to get so worked up over a lump of plastic, then check out for yourself the fine versions of "Broke Down Piece of Man" and "It Ain't the Meat, It's the Motion;" inspired renditions that show the band to be more than mere practitioners of the art of r & b. These guys don't just play this stuff, they live it. , 
If those two cuts don't convince you, then dig the splendid orginals by Stevie Van Zandt and some unknown, but hip dude, named Springsteen who happens to be a good friend of the band. This guy sounds like a real comer if only on the basis of the two originals penned here. 
The band itself is as tight as you could ask for. Perhaps the best thing about the Ip beside Southside's soulful vocals is the s.upport lent by the Miami Horns, who joyfully punctuate most of the up tempo stuff on the disc with some ear-splitting licks. And listen to this hipster Spring­steen shooting straight from the hip, who, while reminiscing about the band's early days, says, "They were each in their own way a living spirit of what, to me, rock and roll is all about. It was music as survival and they lived it down in their souls, night after night." 
If this album is any indication of their present state of mind, you can bet that somewhere tonight a bar in Asbury Park, New Jersey is gonna be open till late. 
rituals and no ceremonies. In fact the only services consist of readings from the texts of the world's known religions. According to the Bahai view, an emphasis is put on individual worship and meditation because they believe every person is responsible for his or her own spiritual development. 
But what is the Bahai religion? According to an informative and colorful brochure given out, the Bahai faith came into being in the middle of the nineteenth century when Baha'u'llah, its prophet­founder. was born in 1817 to a noble Persian family. The brochure states that, "His cause--stands identified with, and revolves around, the principle of the organic· unity of mankind as representing the consummation of the whole process of human evolution.'' 
''This stage in this stupendous evolu­tion','they assert, ·;s not only necessary but ine-vitable, that it is gradually approaching, and that nothing short of the celestial potency with which a divinely ordained Message can claim to be endowed can succeed in establishing is,'' the brochure 
Ramones II?/! 
by Dominick Salemi 
The Ramones are four morons who wear leather jackets and sneakers and think they are very cool. They also happen to be one of the most popular and influential rock bands in NYC. 
Led by Joey Ramone, formerly Sylvain Sylvain of the New York Dolls, the Ramones are a musical phenomenon who have gained prominence by playing some on NY's smaller clubs. notably CBGB in the Village, which has suddenly become the center of a burgeoning underground musical scene. This is not to imply that the Ramones are composers of "music" in the technical sense of the word. What they have chosen to do instead is play simple three-chord rock and roll, very fast and very loud. 
The band has naturally been accused of playing in such a volatile fashion in order to disguise the fact that they don't know what they're doing; but this of course is a misconception; the Ramones know exactly what they're doing. they're just not always in control when they're doing it. 
RAM ONES is Joe and Co.'s first album and most probably their last. Any group that habitually uses the same three chords in every song will rapidly run out of imaginative ways to arrange them. Yet most of the cuts cleverly average around goes on. This explanation is also given in numerous slide shows and films given in the basement of the building. 
The first Bahai community in the United States was founded in Chicago in 1894. Plans for the first House of Worship were begun in 1903. An open competition was held to decide what design would win approval of the Chicago Bahai's. All designs were exhibited in the Smithsonian Institute and French-Canadian architect Louis Bourgeois was declared the winrer. Bourgeois, who had studied at the E.:ole des Beaus Arts in Paris. was the unani­mous selection of forty-nine delegates. 
Bourgeois struggled for eight years previous to the cc.mpetition trying to get an inspiration for the building. When it hit him, he decided to shape the top of the temple in a bell shape because this bell "was the greatest musical instrument we have: it is the conveyor of sound to the greatest distance. It conveys our sorrow~ and our joys--this temple--it is the Great Bell. Calling to America." 
The bell shaped top of the temple stands out from the rest of the building. The white. ornamental forms a combination of religious symbols. make an intricate maze of patterns. When the sunlight pours through them in the early afternoon. the patterns are beautifully reproduced in the shadows cast on the floor. 
The house always seems to have visitors; whether they have come to pray. gawk or enjoy the gardens. After a few visits to the house. you realize that the Bahai house is not out of place at all in Wilmette. In fact, its quiet. but graceful splendor becomes a focal point for this lakeside town. If you're ever in Chicago, whether it's for a day or a summer, on bicycle or car, try to get up to the Bahai House.__ 
two minutes, so you can never really get tired of hearing any of them even though they ALL sound exactly alike. 
As for the individual songs themselves, (if one even bothers to pay attention to such things), they are as idiotic as one could expect, more stupid by far than anything, say Sam the Sham and the Pharoahs or The Royal Guardsman, ever 
.. 
c < 
~~ 

did. Then again. one has no right to expect <Wlything from an aJl-,um that was produced 
on a penurious budget of $12.000 and was mixed.so that it is impossible to distinguish whet e one cut ends and another begins. 
So why are the Ramones so good? All I 
can say is that you either-like their 
self-styled punk sensibility. with its con­
temptuous attitudes and tacit postures of imbecility inherent in songs like "Now I Wanna Sniff Some Glue," or you don't. Still there's no denying the splenetic energy found in "Blitzkrieg Bop." the playful sadism of "Beat on the Brat," the inarticulate sensitivity of "I Just WannaBe Your Boyfirend," or the existential dilem­ma posed in "I Don't Wanna Walk Around With You": 
I don't wanna walk around with you 
I don't wanna walk around with you 
I don't wanna walk around with you 
So why do you wanna walk around with me? 
As any fool can plainly see, this is not the most sophisticated band ever to emerge from New York. yet the release of this lp has found a lot of hip critics attempting to justify their professed enthusiasm for so pedestrian a band by pedantically pro­pounding theories purporting to explain the group's artistic and cultural value. The Ramones haven't any, of course, so there's really no need to allay anyone's suspicions regarding the Ramones by indulging in sesquipedalian antics. After all... , it's only rock and roll. 
NO's Knights of Columbus determined to break its record 
by Kate Flynn attempting to break fund-raising Masses, retreats, communion Staff Reporter records. Aid will be focused on 
breakfasts and Lenten observances three areas: campus, community will also be sponsored. Program and church. chairmen are now planning a 
Notre Dame's Knights of Col­Campus activities will include communion breakfast with Fr. umbus, the world's oldest and smokers, pool and ping-pong Theodore Hesburgh, University largest college council, donated tournaments and semi-formal dan­President, as celebrant. $1500 to Corvilla, a non-profit ces. This year's chairmen are President, as celebrant Jrgani;:ation which cares for the planning the first Halloween mas­Knights of Columbus leaders area's mentally retarded. This querade ball. have already attained one goal--the year's donation, raised through Community service will include a signing in of one hundred new football game steak sales, is a $500 variety of projects. Members will students at Activities Night. This 
increase over 1975. work at Logan Center, tutor at month, the chapter will contribute 
For the last three vcars, this Swanson Elementary School, visit $500 to Gibault, a home for Knights of Columbus. has been the aged at Dor-A-Lin every Sun­wayward boys. Chairmen hope to rated by the head chapter as third day, sell steaks for Corvilla nd 
successfully negotiate with the best in the nation. This year, they sponsor free basketball tourna­Student Union for movie nights and will try for the number one spot by ments for the youth. are also investigating the possibility of installing a Squires of Columbus at Marion High. Charity, Unity, Fraternity and Patriotism are the traditional aimes of the Knights of Columbus.
Russia intervenes 
According to Grand Kjlight Steve 
Lucero, this year's policy will be to continued trom page j) asked. follow examples set by the more feed the industries of capitalism. successful years since the chapter
"Why cannot the American gov­
Senior American authorities ac­ernment say that if a peaceful was chartered in 1910. In 1967, the knowledge southern Africa's transfer of power is impssible Knights of Columbus donated half chrome, vanadium, platinum, gold, because of the intransigence of the a million dollars in scholarships to 
diamonds. manganee, uranium, racists, then it will be on the side of the University, and in 1969 the old coal and other materials are vital to those who fight for freedom? post office was remodelled into hte the West economically and stra­present K of C building. 

tegically. 
In New York, an aide to MaLIK IS DISMISSED THE CHARGE WITH THAT "it is difficult to see" how Malik could be working against Kissinger since he has been in the Soviet Union since 
mid-July  on  vacation  and  under­ 
going surgery.  
On  arrival  in  Dar  Es  Salaam,  

Kissinger stressed to reporters that "The United States wants nothing. for itself'' from his initiative and ''The progress we are trying to bring will benefit above all the peoples of Africa. We will do what Ne are requested to do. We will do 1othing that is not requested." 
Nine killed 

As Kissinger flew from Switzer­and to Africa for shuttle talks ;eeking racial peace in Southern .\fica. reports !>aid police gunfire dlled nine persons in the black iouth African township of Soweto. fhe deaths brought to 13 the 1umber of lives reported lost in two lays of a job boycott by tens lfthousands of workers. 
A Tanzanian government state­nent issued just hours before (issinger was to arrive here to Jegins his African diplomacy, 
The document continued: "Such statement would dishearten Rho­desian Premier Ian Smith and South African Prime Minister John Vorster and would make a peaceful solution more likely. It would also assuage the worries and suspicions of free Africa. 
The statement said a demand for such a declaration would be made toKissinger by black African presi­dents with whom he will be meeting. 
A Tanzanian government news­paper earlier commented Kissin­ger's new diplomatic shuttle may prove to be a "worthless effort." 
The Tanzanian Daily News claimed the United States is more interested in containing Soviet influence in Southern Africa than achieving black.majority rule. 
Still, it said, Kissinger was welcome "To see for himself the victories and revolutionary con­quests of the people of Africa. He can go to Pretoria and Salisbury and tell the old rascals there that there days are numbered." 
Sammy Mdee, press secreteary for Tanzanian President Julius Nyere, said the position of all blacks Africa's "front line" staes. These are Tanzania, Zambia, Mo­zambique, Botswana and Angola, the countries most involved in efforts to promote minority rule in southern Africa. 


UNITED STATES READING LAB OFFERS SPEED READING COURSE AT NOTRE DAME 
If you are a student who would like toUnited States Reading Lab will offer a 4 make A's instead of B's or C's or if youweek course in speed reading to a limited are a business person who wants to staynumber of qualified people at Notre abreast of today's everchanging acceler­Dame. 
ating world then this course is anThis recently developed method of absolute necessity. 
instruction is the most innovative and ef­These free special one-hour lecturesfective program available in the United will be held at the following times andStates. 
places.

Not only does 1niS famous course reduce your time in the classroom to just 
NOTRE DAME MEETINGS
one class per week for 4 short weeks but it also includes an advanced speed reading 
Tuesday: Sept. 21, at 6:30 p.m. andcourse on cassette tape so that you can again at 8:30p.m. 
continue to improve for the rest of your Wednesday: Sept. 22, at 6:30 p.m. andlife. In just 4 weeks the average student again at 8 :30 p.m.
should be reading 4-5 times faster. In a Thursday: Sept. 23; at 6:30 p.m. andfew months some students are reading again at 8:30p.m. 
20-30 times faster attaining speeds that Friday: Sept. 24, at 6:30p.m. and againapproach 6000 words per minute. In rare at 8:30p.m. 
instances speeds of up to 13,000 wpm Sunday: Sept. 26, at 2:30p.m. and again have been documented. 
at 5:30p.m.

Our average graduate should read Monday: Sept. 27, at6:30 p.m. and again 7-10 times faster upon completion of the at 8:30p.m. 
course with marked improvement in comprehension and concentration. 
For those who would like additional TWO FINALMEETINGS
information, a series of free, one hour, orientation lectures have been schedules. 
Tuesday: Sept. 28, at 6:30 p.m. andAt these free lectures the course will be again at 8:30p.m. 
explained in complete detail, including classroom procedures, instruction meth­ods, class schedule and a special 1 time only introductory tuition that is less than one-half the cost of similar courses. You 
THESE MEETINGS WILL BE HELD AT must attend any of the free meetings for NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR CONTIN~information about Notre Dame classes. 
UING EDUCATION 
These orientations are open to the public, above age 14 (persons under 18 
If you are a businessman, student,should be accompanied by a parent if housewife or executive this couse, whichpossible). 
took 5 years of intensive research to develop, is a must. You can read 7 -10 times faster, comprehend more, concen­If you have always wanted to be a trate better, and remember longer.
speed reader but found the cost prohibi­Students are offered and additionaltive or the course too time consuming ... 
discount. This course can be taught tonow you can! Just by attending 1 evening tindustry or civic groups at "Groupper week for 4 short weeks you can read 7 rates" upon request. Be sure to attend to 10 times faster, concentrate better and whichever free orientation that fits best in comprehend more. 
your schedule. 


Danforth Fellowship applicants will meet 
Inquiries about the Danforth reys maJormg in the General Graduate Fellowships, to be award­Program of Liberal Studies. She is ed by the Danforth Foundation of pursuing graduatye study in the St. Louis, Missouri in March 1977, history of science. are invited to an information meet­The Fellowships are open to all ing at 7:30p.m. in O'Shaughnessy qualified persions who have serious Hall tonight, according to Professor interest in careers of teaching in Walter Nicogorski, associate pro­colleges and universities, and who fessor of general program. plan to study for a Ph.D in any field 
The University is able to nominate of study common to the undergrad­four members of the current senior uate liberal arts curriculum in the · class and one recent graduate who United States. has not yet begun graduate study. Approcimately 60 to 65 Fellow­
In last year's Danforth competi­ships will be awarded to seniors tion, Notre Dame graduate, L. and recent graduates who are Martin Nussbaum was among the considered "Early Entry" appli­65 Danforth Fellows selected in the cants in the Program. Another 35 nation. Nussbaum majored in to 40 awards will be made to theology and is pursuing graduate postbaccalaureate persons who are study in American Studies. Notre called "late entry" applicants and Dame also placed two of its who apply directly to the Founda­nominees among the finalists in the tion. Preference is given in "early Danforth competition. These final­entry" component to persons un­ists who were awarded honorable der 30 years of age and in the "late mention by the Foundation were entry" component to persons 30 to Claire Gordon, a biology major 40 years of age. pursuing graduate study in bioan­Applicants for the early entry thropology, and Margaret Humph-awards may not have undertaken 
Vietnam's UN membership 
(continued from page 5) Security Council has recommended 
Atter the meetmg tor one hour it. and fifteen minutes yesterday. the An informed source said the 
Security Council said the debate Soviet Union had held out for 
over membership for recently uni­limiting the deferment to the fied Vietnam was being postponed Month of November and the United 
"To a date in November so that the States settled for that in return for 
General Assembly may discuss the inclusion of the reference to cor;­candidacy during the course of teh sideration in the General Assem­
31st session. The Vietnamese side bly. Other sourGes said the Unite.:i 
has agreed to this position." earlier insisted on
States hasd 
The reference to the General delaying consideration without any
Asse. 1ble was reportedly inserted deadline. 
at the behest of Pro-U.S. delega­The Vietnamese said Monday
tions in order. it was said, to make they had made extensive efforts to 
it less obvious that the postpone­
enter into discussions with the ment was being timed to put it past United States on the missing men the election. The General ASsem­
and the American reconstruction bly normally takes up a member­aid promised them b¥ 1973 Paris ship ani:'llication only after the oeace argeement. 
ROTC awards 
Two Air Force ROTC officers and courses for the past two years. 20 cadets were honored in an award Also, twelve other cadets were ceremonies conducted here recent-presented second academic honors ly. ­
for maintaining a cumulative GPA 
Capt. Daniel T. Davis received 'lf over 3.00 and a 3.50 in their · 
the second Oak Leaf cluster to the AFROTC classesJor one year. 
Air ·Force commendation medal 
while the basic medal was preseat­
ed to Capt. Victor E. Renuart. 
Both officers are assistant pro­lnterhall requires fessors of aerospace studies and received the awards for meritorious insurance proof service a their last duty stations before coming to Notre Dame. 
The Dean of Students has e•ab­Cadet senior Michael Healy, lished a new policy this year involving the Interhall Department. 
received the Vice-Commandant's The Interhall office must see someA ward for his outstanding perfor­proof of insurance of all studentsmance at AFROTC field training participating in any of their pro­this past summer. 
grams.
Seven cadets were awarded first Proof may be in the form of anacademic honors: Kevin A. Bern­actual copy of an insurance form, aing, Daniel J. Towle, Karen Daneu, photocopy, or letter from theBrian P. Brodfuehrer, Mary S. 
parents indicating insurance cover­Jordan, Kevin J. Malloy, and age. Students will only have toWilliam S. Noakes, Jr. All had show insurance proof once duringmaintained a cumulative GPA of the year. 
over 3.00 and a 3.50 in AFROTC 

rid 

GRAND OPENING SALE! STARTS·SEPT. 16 10% Discount on all purchases with $aint Mary's or ·Notre Dame I.D. 
. BEDSPREADS, NORTH VILLAGE MALL
COMFORTERS 
us 31
IN STOCK 

DARDEN RD. 
ALL SIZES. 
277-3330 

~--------------------------------------------~ 
any graduate or professional study mericans and Puerto Ricans. William H. Danforth in 1927, is a beyond the baccalaureate and must The Danforth Graduate Fellow­national, educational, philanthro­be nominated by Liaison Officers of ship is a one-year award but is pic organizaton. dedicated to en­their undergraduate institutions by normally renewable until complet­hancing the humane dimensions of November 15, 1976. The Danforth ion of the advanced degree or for a life. Activities of the Foundation Fundation does not accept direct maximum of four years of graduate emphasize the theme of improving applications for the Early Entry study. Fellowship stipends are the quality of teaching and learn­Fellowships. based on individual need, but thev ing. The Foundation serves the 
The Foundation is currently mak­will not exceed $2275 for single following areas: higher education ing a special effort to bring Fellows and $2450 for married nationally through sponsorship of qualified persons from the racial Fellows for the academic year, plus Staff-administered programs; pre­and ethnic minorities into the dependency allowances for child­collegiate education nationally profession of teaching. Approxi­ren. The Fellowship also covers through grant-making and program mately 25 percent ofthe awards are required tuition and fees. activities; and urban affairs in St. expected to be awarded to Ameri­The Danforth Foundation, estab­Louis through grant-making and can Indians, Blacks, Mexican-A-lished by. the late Mr. and Mrs. program activities. 
At 75 
One woman rules Nevada town 
AUSTEN. Nev. AP-Kittie Bonner them and that's good enough." she "See, I've been on the Red Cross packs a gun, badge. bullwhip. said. board for about 42 vears now and it scissors and spatula. She's the just seemes like l.keep accumul••· 
Though she's led armed posses,
barber, constable and baker in this ting all these clothes and don't 
most of her work is in the Lander
central Nevada mining town. And have enough places to put them ... 
County Courthouse in Austin.
sh's 75 years old. she said. 
She's the bailiff when court is in 
When there's a wedding 111session.
There was a time she broke Austin, the couple might come to 
mustangs for fun-got $12 apiece for Kittic for a professional job on a
Austin was once a booming
the job. But she doesn't get cake. Somehow out of a cluttered
town. It's sleepy. now, cradled in a
around like she used to. though kitchen. she manages to turn out
steep canyon, whose surrounding
she's still able to roust drunks off wedding cakes of uni4uc quality.
mountains coughted up about $50
the street .and over to jail. 
She stores them in her bedroom so
million in silver before the mines 
mice won't scurrv down a chinkedKittie-as she's best known in played out. 
kitchen wall and nibble awav a\ "erAustin-was appointed constable 13 Kittie lives on Highway SO, the hard work. · years ago. not long after her town's main street. Her 89-year­Kittie ·says she likes people. buthusband, then Austin's sheriff, 
old brick home is back from the is having a hard time adjusting todied. She's never hasd to use her road, hidden by an overgrowth of the younger generation . 
. 38, her bullwhip or blackjack, but shrubs and trees. Inside is a "You know. al these hippies aresays she knows how and wouldn't 
wealth of antiques. mostly buried moving to Austin. They're realbe afraid to wield them. 
now by her painting equipment or nice. but I can't get used to that "Most people just do what I tell , by piles of secondhand garments. long hair. .. 
~--------------­
NOTICES 

1 senior season ticket. Best offer 287-4770.
Building full of antiques and used 
Classified Ads Sale: 
furniture at Traders Village . 13000 
block U.S. 20. Mishawaka, 255-0314 TEAC cassette deck, $315 or make offer, Loft$80. 1689. 
Morrissey loan tund $20-150, 1 day 
wait. 1~rcent interest due in 30 
For sale, Refrigerator--large, regu days. LaFortune basement, M-F 
lation, room size, in excellent condi­tion. Contact 233-3721.
11 :15-12:15. 
© 

'62 Mercedes, 4-dr., fine condition, Need 2 Purdue tix. Can only pay $10 radiasls, stereo S-track. $1100.
Will teach flute in your spare time. 
Call Beth at8112 for more info. 
a ticket. How about it anyway? Call 287-7639. Tom at 7471 or 288-8417. LeaveAny ND-SMC student of Ukranin­
message. 3 piece bedroom set . $50. Goodian background wishing to join the condition. Call 272·2520. 
newly organized Ukranian Club call 
Need Purdue tickets badly. will pay
Orest at 1469 or Roman at 1374.. 
$$$ Call Matt 1469. USED BOOKS and paperbacks. Large stock of general readingForget to pledge your Wednesday materila and op books. Bring this ad
evening meals? Can still sign up I need 2 people for interesting sales and receive on free paperback withuntil noon Friday at Student Activ-work, car necessary, call 272-1966. 
any $1.00 purchase. Thj! Books tack, . ities, 1st floor LaFortune. 
112 W. Lexington, Elkhart 293-3815.
Roommate needed. Own bedroom, 
35 min. via US 20 to downtown
For free delivery and low prices on utilities, living, bath, kitchen. 
Elkhart.
kegs just call Chip at 288-7878. $67.50. Connie 8491 days, 289-9110, 255-7571 eves. 
PERSONALS

Gay: Having or expressing a joyous ------------,--­feeling. Gay Community of Notre 3 GA Purdue tix needed for family. Dame. PO Box 206. Notre Dame, Call Chaps 287-3975. 
Sally-
Ind. 
I'm still thinkin' about you. Just Need one Purdue ticket. Call Greg. wanted to put it into black andAccurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 
288-0088. white!!
232-0746. 
me Needed! Football tickets to any N D ,FOR lllENT 
home games. Call 6617, ask for Dear TC, Happy Birthday. Love BB. 
Mark.------------­
311 North Cushing -Ready now! 3 
Mr. Leo Cl Hasen is hereby an­WELCOME BACK LEMONbedroom furnished house in excel­nouncing he is seeking a Purdue BABIES !Can't believe you're sen­lent condition. Call234-6688. 
ticket. Inquire 1650. iors! Ready tor another year of studying? Well, at least you'll be4 bedroom house for rent in ND Needed many GA tix for any home able to go to the Senior Bar. after all area. $350 and deposit. Call Jim 
game. Caii4168-SMC those long dry years of waiting. AndZimmer, 616-445-2471, 7am.-4:30 
the cow jumped over the moon. 
pm. 

Need ride to Cincinatte area. Oct. 1 J.and J. in CA 
Will share driving and expenses.
Students 3 bedroom apartment for 
Call1653. Yo there,rent $55 per person. Lease and The above ad was placed bydeposits. 255-3205 -1134 Lincoln Need 2 tix to Purdue. Will pay! Call Dlugolecki, fellas.
Way West. South Bend. 
291·307 5. llRT 
LOST AND FOUND Babysitter needed for 1,2 or 3 full Here's an early Happy Birthday days per week; in our home; must wish to Carol Malone, new BP Do you need $25.00? I need my 

have own transportation. $1.50 per resident. Happy Birthday Cola!! 
glasses. Clear frames with Thomas 
hour. Phone 283-6619 or 288-9892. From your twin-JA. 
Walrath imprinted on inside frame. Luckily I couldn't see the Pitt game 
Must have 2 Purdue tix for (tuition Tolkien fans: Help celebrate Bilbo but wduld like to have them back by paying) parents. PIear help. 3540. 1 and Frodo's birthday, Sept. 22. For Southern Cal. Use your eyes to save more info, call Mike, 3280 or Greg,mine. I foum call Tom at 288-0088. 
In c.ire need of 2 Oregon tix--call 3344. Don at 8183. SiiiYGiri-
Lost: Gold watch by Trad. No band Need GA tix for Purdue game. Call Just cllelcing to see. If You're . Reward. Ca11Mike3207. 
Chri~ at 8336. reading. How about the Armory party Sat.?? Need 2 Purdue tickets. Call Jim at PR 1 WANT'ED 277-0067' To the nice rector and the g·eat guys Need two GA tickets for Purdue. Purdue ticket please please! Call on North Quad who resc~.;ed 3 girls Call Mary Kay at 6874. 
Hogie at 1785. and one overheated car at 2 AM Sunday morning ... Thanks alot for EMERGENCY!!! I need 2 Purdue 2 tickets. Please all your help.
Need Alabama And a special thanks tickets. Please call Chris 6881. 
help. Ca11Peggyat4-4381. to the golf cart ... 11 was fun! 
M& D& K Bloomington, Louisville -need ride Need 1 Alabama ticket urgently. for weekend of Sept. 18. 7938 Sue. 
Call6561. Interested in a Bible study or fellowship group? Call 7591 or 3214. Need Purdue tickets. Call Ron 8958. Need 2 GA Purdue tix. Call 5194 
SMC. Hi there Sue Shellenbarger. I miss Need 3 Purdue tix: Will pay $10 a ----------~---­
our Friday night manicures!! tic';et, no more (sorry)..Call Bob at FOR SALE Signed, Your old roommate :..:.:.-8660. If not in, leave message. '74 Toyota, low mileage, excellent The Bag Brothers constitutional condition, fair price. 272-2131. convention will convene Weds even­evenings. ing at a:00 in SeniOr Bar. All Bag Brothers are required to aHend. 
Need Purdue tickets. Call 233-111 5' 
A true chariot of the gods! 1971 VW
between 11 AM--5 PM Super Beetle. Absolutely divine condition! $1200. 272·1639. 
********* 

Boulac: Notre Dame must execute 
by Paul Stevenson 
The Fighting Irish started last Saturday's game against Pitts­burgh in a style reminiscent of Notre Dame of the past, driving from their own 14 yard line, 86 yards to paydirt. 
The Irish tally would turn out ot be their only touchdown of the day as the momentum soon shifted behind Pitt. 
··As the game progressed we became more erratic," Brian Bou­lac. offensive line coach, commen­ted. "It was an uphill battle. We had to throw the ball and Pitt knew it. As we went passing, their defensive changes became more pronounced." 
When a defensive team suspects their opponent will mount a certain attack. their job is simplified. The yuarterback has to lead the team against a prepared defense, thus making his job all the more difticult. 
"We had assignment errors up front and a couple of times a lineman was just beaten," Boulac acknowledged. "You can't blame Rick (Slager) alone for the offensive performance. No one could have gotten out of the situations he was presented with. The quarterback always has to take the blame when he was forced to throw or take a loss be~.ause of assignment break­downs. 
"We take the responsibility of performance as a team." Boulac mentioned. "No one man is singled out, we're a unit." 
A quarterback cannot operate unless he has the 'protection of the offensive line. If the line was deficient. the need for some chan­ges in offensive line personnel may 

St. Mary's tennis team sweeps past Valparaiso 
by Patti Doyle from SMC easily handled Gast 6-0,6-4. Tami Griffin took Thal­mann 6-1,6-2 and Susan Starck 
St. Mary's tennis team easily defeated Ferguson 6-4,6-0. Kelee won all nine matches against the Brogger also took Schoop 6-4,6-3. women's team at Valparaiso Mon­In doubles, Timm and Purcell day night. Playing slightly short­competed against Valparaiso's handed, the women still controlled number one and two coming out on the entire match. Due to class top, 6-0,6-3. Bracken and Starck conflicts, the team had to travel took Thalmann and Gast 6-2,6-2 without their number four and six and the doubles match between players. Griffin, Brogger and Green, Red­
Number one singles player Barb een ended up 6-1,6-4 in favor of Timm defeated JoAnn Paul from SMC. Valpo 6-4,6-3. Louise Purcell came The team will play at Anderson out a 7-5,6-0 winner in her match College Wednesday and compete 
against Cannon. Noreen Bracken at home against St. Joe on Friday. 
Chip ·ScanIon =:=:=:=:===============:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Chip Shots 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::. · Saturday the greatest student body in the world became just another group of students watching their footl;>all team on an autumn afternoon. Seeing the student body sitting for most of the debacle against Pittsburgh Saturday was as disappointing to the football team and the coaching staff as it was to observers from outside the Notre 
Dame community .. Granted it was not the type of game that Notre Dame likes to see; a 
. game that the Irish were never really in after the first half. But in the past the Notre Dame student body has cheered their teams on to some of the most remarkable comebacks in collegiate sports history. 
Two years ago when the Irish were losing a homeopenerto Purdue the students never gave_ up until the final moments of the game. The Boilermakers greeted the Irish with 24 first quarter points and led 24-7 at the half. Irish field general Tom Clements narrowed the score to 24-14 and then 31-20 before time was to run out on the Irish. To all those in the stands it seemed inevitable that the Irish would reverse the situation and that Purdue would find themselves faced with a long ride back to Lafayette. · 
-. On Saturday the present generation of Irish fans were faced with a similar situation and have nothing to be proud about in the losing effort. From the press box, a vantage point that has always yiel.ded visiting sports writers a glimpse of the unusual antics employed by the student body to inspire their Irish, the view was one of serenity. Gone was the sea of arms that was such an awesome sight to intruding teams when they entered no mans land in front of the student body. Missing _ was the roarthatoften halted opposing quarterbacks from calling their cadences and sent them back to the huddle on many occasions. If this is the pattern that the student body is going to follow in the future, aJ.I well and good. But at future pep rallies when a speaker comments on Notre Dame students being the greatest student body in the world, it will be a false pride that starts the crowd cheering, not an intense spirit that used to account for the accolade. 
h ...... 

Quarterback Rick Slager must receive better protection from the offensive line if he hopes to improve the passing game in Saturday's game against Purdue (Photo by Paul Clevenger) 
~ 

be necessary. 
"We're not going to make changes after only one ballgame," Boulac stated. ''The starting lineup will be the same, we're just going to have to work hard on our weaknesses. We're not satisfied with the over-all performance and all the mistakes." 
"We're going to take a good look at the backup men, and if we have anymore breakdowns, then changes will be made," he stres­will be another long afternoon." sed. "If we expect to beat Purdue, we 
The lineup may remain the have to play better up front. We same, but definite improvement is have to work on blocking and needed by Saturday's clash with become more assignment compe­Purdue. tent. We not only have to get our 
"Execution is the key work in our biDcks but also sustain them to give game plan," Boulac stated. "If the backs a chance to run,'' he we're unable to execute, Saturday added. 
Parseghian keeping busy 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) -Last 
Saturday, Ara Parseghian rose ear­
ly, as usual. 
"My first thought was that Notre 
Dame was playing a football game 
and we had to win," he said. 
"Then I realized it's not my 
responsibility any more.'' 
The next morning, following 
Notre Dame's 31-10 loss to Pitt, 
Parseghian went out and hit a few 
golf balls, attended a social brunch 
and flew to Miami to make a 
speech. 
"I didn't have to face all the 
problems a losing coach has to 
face," he said, "but I know how 
Dan Devine must have felt on 
Sunday morning. Then I looked at 
the paper and saw that Bear Bryant 
lostDarreii Royal lost, John Robin­
son lost his debut at Southern Cal, 
.and I thought maybe I'm better off 
doing what I'm doing. I didn't 
have to face all the problems a 
losing coach has to face·.'' 
'.'In fact, I mentioned to my wife how two years ago the pressure to win had become almost an obses­sion and we were both grateful at no longer having to face the consequences of it one way of the other." 
These days, Parseghian--two years removed from the Notre Dame coaching job--is narrating a new syndicated television sports series, some public relations work, fund-raising for multiple sclerosis, selling credit insurance, making .speeches. "I have more than 
enough to do," he said. "I don't 
think I could slow down. I'd 
probably be back in coaching if I 
had nothing to do.'' 
Saturday he also served as color commentator for ABC's telecast of the Notre Dame -Pitt game, an offer he refused a year ago. 
"It was difficult because I spent 11 years coaching at Notre Dame," he said. "I don't think I'd have been able to do a Notre Dame game last year." 
And "coaching" from the TV booth isn't the same as it is down on the field. Early in the second quarter, Parseghian said Notre Dame probably wouldn't pass from its own territory. The Irish 
promptly threw two interceptions possible return to those problems less than 11/2 minutes apart. as a pro coach. But despite all his "I tried to be objective about the current activities and his insistence game," Parseghian said, although that he never again will coach at 
it's doubtful he found many good Notre Dame or any other college, things to say about a 31-10 loser. Parseghian still finds it hard to be "I didn't really criticize. The impartial about the Fighting Irish. 
interceptions were obviously the Pitt fun bled a punt Saturday, turning point, and I said so, but Notre Dame recovered and Parseg­I've never been one to rip anybody; hian commented, "That's a big it's not my nature. I guess I'm 
break for us." During the next more understanding of coaches' commercial break, play-by play announcer Keith Jackson reminded 
problems." 
him, "It's not 'us' any more, Ara."
And he still hasn't ruled out a 
Irish fall from Top Twenty 
Michigan and Ohio State, the big 
two of the Big Ten, took over the 
1-2 positions in The Associated 
Press' first regular season college 
footbal poll Monday with just one 
point separating the two arch-ri­
vals. 
As a result of the weekend's 
wave of upsets, Nebraska surrend­
ered its No. 1 preseason ranking 
and dropped to eighth place while 
Arizona State skidded from third to 
18th. Nebraska was held to a 6-6 
tie by Louisiana State and Arizona 
State bowed to UCLA 28-10. 
Louisiana State, previously unrank­
ed, now is No. 16 and UCLA moved 
up from No. 17 to fifth place. 
The biggest gain was made by Missouri. Unranked in the presea­son poll, the Tigers walloped Southern California 46-25 and zoo­med to sixth while the Trojans reeled from eighth to an also-ran. 
Michigan's Wolverines, runners­up to Nebraska in the preseason ratings, trimmed Wisconsin 40-27 and received 28 first-place votes and 1,077 of a possible 1,220 points in a nation-wide poll of 61 sports writers and broadcasters. Ohio State, which clobbered Michigan State 49-21, pulled down 18 first­place ballots and 1,076 points. 
In third place was Pittsburgh with nine first-place votes and 892 points for a 31-10 thumping of Notre Dame, a setback which dropped the 11th-ranked Irish out of the Top Twenty. 
Oklahoma, trying to make it three national championships in a row, moved up from fifth to fourth with four first-place votes and 865 points for a 24-3 triumph over Vanderbilt. 
The other two first-place ballots went to fifth-place UCLA. The Bruins totaled 731 points. 
Rounding out the Top Ten were Missouri, Penn State, Nebraska, Georgia and Maryland. Penn State, No. 10 in the preseason voting, defeated Stanford 15-12; Georgia climbed from 16th to ninth by outscoring California 36-24 and Maryland jumped from 12th to lOth via a 31-7 trouncing of Richmond. 
Top 20 
1. 
Michigan 

2. 
Ohio State 

3. 
Pitt 

4. 
Oklahoma 

5. 
UCLA 

6. 
Missouri 

7. 
Penn State 

8. 
Nebraska 

9. 
Georgia 

10. 
Maryland 

11. 
Tex. A&M 

12. 
Arkansas 

13. 
Kansas 

14. 
Alabama 

15. 
Boston Coli. 

16. 
Lo'siana St. 

17. 
N. Carolina 

18. 
Arizona St. 

19. 
Texas 

20. 
Mississippi 


Although there were weaknesses 

in the offensive line against Pitt, 
there were some good performan­
ces on the parts of Mike Carney 
and Dave Huffman. 
"Mike (Carney) played an out­

standing game, coming out of the 
infirmary after two days with the 
flu," Boulac mentioned. "Dave 
(Huffman), who started his first 
game at center, played extremely 
well against Pittsburgh's AI Roma­
no, one of the top defensive 
linemen in the country." 
"They both played a very good game with very few execution errors," Boulac stated. "However, we still look for them to improve along with the rest of the team.'' 
The Irish must continue to 

improve until they gel as a team. 
This improvement is a difficult 
task, something that will come with 
experience. 
"I feel strongly that we have the talent to be a good offensive team," Boulac said. "We have talented backs, quarterbacks, re­ceivers and linemen. I don't believe we'll face any defense tougher than Pitt's." 
"We're young and we can only get better. We are going to improve. Experience is essential in an offensive line, and we're gaining this experience," he said. 
The Irish have a great deal of improving to do before this Satur­day's contest with Purdue. Past events are only memories now, and Notre Dame can only await the future. "With support, this team can come around and show the student body the potential the have," Boulac concluded. 
------------------------------------------~----------------------------------~ 


