------~--------~------------------~----------~----------~----------------------------------------------~---------'--­
Over recent firings 
Student Dining Hall workers voice complaints 
by Jim Flahaven management for various dining hall know they were dependent on the mund Price, stated, "I feel I am a ment." Staff Reporter rule violations. One student was jobs to pay for their room and Trustee of the students' money for The students said the coordina­fired for lending his meal card to a board.'' food, and feel a deep responsibility tors, who are also students, better 
Recent incidents in the North friend. another for bringing in a Another employee agreed that for seeing that money go as far as it understood and better represented Dining Hall have caused a group of guest not allowed to eat in the the students involved should be can.'' He went on to ask how he the students' problems to the student workers to voice concern North Dining Hall. The third and penalized but not fired. could allow his employees to take management. But with more over the situation of student em· fourth students were let go because Laurence Aronson, manager of that money wrongly. supervisors taking up more of the ployees. one student punched out the the North Dining Hall. responded At a gripe session attended by work previously done by both the 
The students interviewed gene­other's time card 55 minutes late. that he did not want to fire the Price, Aronson, and some twenty­student coordinator, and the hall rally thought that the management One student who had been an students. but had no choice. "I five student employees, one of the manager, there has developed a had adopted a tougher attitude employee of the dining hall for four feel like a failure when I have to fire students fired said he had been lack of communication. toward student employees. and years stated, "I think all four were somebody." said Aronson. "But in caught in a previous year lending At the meeting on Friday. were less concerned with student ~rong. but I think they should have essence they were stealing. Some out his meal card. and Price had former employee Rich Martin sug­problems. been given fines or suspensions students may not interpret it as simply fined him. Price said he did gested that a three-man student 
Last month, four North Dining instead of being fired. Two of the such, but it is." not remember the incident. committee make regular reports on 
Hall employees were fired by the students are friends of mine and I Director of Food Services, Ed-A number of the students felt the the student situation. to both Price management had become tougher and Aronson. The suggestion met with the student employees since with general approval from both an article was published in the students and management. October 9. 1975 issue of the "I think Rich· s suggestion is .a Observer. The article dealt with good one." said one student. "If alleged mismanagement in the we can get the three to be really North Dining Hall. Aronson said representative of the employees a'> that there had not been anv a whole, we may make some real changes in management's attitude progress. toward the students since the Aronson also approved of the article as far as he was concerned. suggestion. "I think ifs a good 
Another problem, according to idea. I should express my view. the students, is that the increased and they should express their amount of supervisors in the past view.·· few years reduced communication Price's comment echoed that ot between the students and Price and Aronson. "Maybe they don't know Aronson. Said one employee, "In what we are trying to get across," past years the student coordinators he said, "and maybe we don't see acted as a kind of go-between for what they are saying. This. I think, the students and the manage-will help.'' 
Howard predicts 1980's revolution, movement against big business 
U.S. District Court Judge Oliver 

by Barb Langhenry  ever,  ao not understand this simi­ trated  into  the  hands  of  a  few  
Staff Reporter  larity because they have an  incor­ people, power is concentrated into  
rect idea of what really happened in  the  hands  of  a  few  people;  for  
"In 1976 and in the 1980's there  events  such  as  the  Boston  Tea  wealth is power."  
will  be  a  full-fledged  movement  Party.  Howard  continued  saying  that  
against big business and a revolu­ He likened the  East India Tea  we  celebrate the bicentennial be­ 
tion  in  America,"  stated  Ted  Company,  towards whom  the  re­ cause  it is  now  time for  another  
Howard. co-director of the People's  volution  against  taxation  without  revolution in America and like the  
Bicentennial  Commission  (PBC),  representation  was  directed,  to  Maryland  farmers  we  have  a  
who spoke last night to kick-off the  International Telephone and Tele­ condition where wealth is power.  
Academic  Commission's  second  graph (ITT) and Lockheed.  Benjamin Rush,  a  founding fa­ 
semester program of speakers.  The  East  India  Company  had  ther and patriot, stated in 1783 that  
The  PBC  has,  according  to  become the most powerful trading  the American war is over, but this  
Howard, no association with, affili­ company in the universe as a result  is far from the case in the American  
ation with or endorsement from the  of help from Parliament in gaining  revolution for this is only the first  
official Bicentennial Commission.  a  monopoly  over  the  word  tea  act in the drama.  Howard noted  
The  PBC  is  a  citizen's  group  trade.  The patriots  rose  up,  and  that another part ot this drama is  
frounded in 1970 by Jeremy Rifkin  once they did. tea parties ocurred  coming.  
to provide "revolutionary alterna­ throughout the colonies.  
tives for the bicentennial vear. ''  "Most of us don't know what this  Corporations becoming  
He  further  explained -that  the  country stood for 200 years ago,"  Multinational  
PBC was set up because the idea of  Howard said.  He continued s~ying  
the  establishment  celebrating  a  the  Declaration  of  lndependance  The big corporations are looking  
Ted Howard, co-director of the People's Bicentennial Commission, opened the Academic Commission's semester schedule of speakers last night. (Photo by Mike Kron) Hearst's lawyers rest case after move for dismissal SAN FRANCISCO (AP)-Patricia bank robbery films. took over for Hearst's lawyers rested their case partner F. Lee Bailey in pressingMonday after a last-minute attack the matter Monday. He said the on the government's most crucial omitted portion showed Symbio­evidence--movies which depict the nese Liberatipn Army terrorist heiress defendant as a guntoting Camilla Hall pointing her gun at bank robber. Miss Hearst.  revolution appeared bazaar. ''Here we are 200 years after the American Revolution where radi­cals were running around rock throwing and revolting, and now we have President Ford, the estab­lishment of today, celebrating a revolution." Predicts a revolution in 1980's Howard believes there will be a revolution in the 1980's because there is a great anger seething below the surface in America, similar to the situation 200 years ago. The American people, how- sent shock waves through the world when it was written. The Declara­tion also causes shock today. This was exemplified when the PBC wrote a portion of the Declaration into a petition and brought it around to key government agen­cies. Sixty-eight per cent of these agencies refused to sign it because they claimed it was anti-govern­ment. He elaborated on this idea of radical views with quotes from patriots of the 1976 era. He read a quote from the Maryland farmers that he felt was especially pertinent t_oday. "Where wealth is concen­ abroad and are becoming multina­tional; they don't need America he stated. For every dollar invested for jobs here, 32 cents is being invested abroad." With the big companies moving abroad the U.S. tax base is eroding and there are fewer U.S. jobs. The final irony, he stated, is that our government is rewarding and encouraging these comapnies to move overseas.. He quoted from P.T. Barnum, "A sucker is born every day," and concluded, "we haven't learned our lesson from history. We can't even name the  

"1 believe it's pointing more at .---------------------------------------'------'.....;..;_..;;_~~~~ 
J. Carter quickly rejected a defense the persons behind the counter motion to dismiss charges against than her," said agent Vernon Miss Hearst on grounds of gov­Kipping. ernmental misconduct in handling Hrownmg, objecting strenuously the films. to Johnson's presentation, leaped 
But he left it up to jurors to out of his scat at one point and tried decide whether attorney ·Albert to show jurors pictures he said Johnson was right when he accused Johnson was ignoring. Carter the government of purposely slic­scolded Browining and said, ''I'll ing out an important edge of the instruct the jury to disregard Mr. dramatic film showing the fast­Browning's comment and his at­moving April 15, 1974 robbery of tempt to demonstrate." the Hibernia Bank. 
"I would tend to agree with Mr. 
The battle over the film ended an Browning that this is not exculpa­11-day defense case which featured tory," the judge said. "But I Miss Hearst as star witness and would have to let the recordportrayed her as an innocent victim 

stand."
of brain-washing and torture. 

Johnson insisted the defense wasThere were 12 witnesses in all, far deprived of a key advantage by notfewer than the 32 called by the being able to cross-examine gov­government. 
ernment witnesses about MissU.S. Atty. James L. Browning Hall's position in the photographs.
Jr. said he would begin his rebuttal case Tuesday. Asked who his first Bailey and Johnson held a news witness would be, he said, "I'm not conference soon after Carter barred free to say." Browning has hinted testimony from a defense psycho­previously at the possibility of a logist who said Miss Hearst was "surprise witness" waiting in the reading from a script when she wings. made underground tape recordings 
Johnson, who had studied the as the revolutionary "Tania." 




r---­
, , I I I • -• ·, 1 I I I I "1 ,/ I 
..:. . 

0 0 • ! I •
2 the observer Tuesday, March 2, 1976 

Solzhenitsyn: West near collapse

On Campus Today 


because of detente capitulations 
·--finance forum, case study of natural gas resources, ·
9:30am 

LONDON (AP) -Exiled Russian ded the Nobel prize for literature in your hands. But your partners with by winston mcadoo, hayes-healy aud. 
author Alexander Solzhenitsyn said 1970, said he was not against whom you are conducting detente Monday night the West "is on the East-West detente but against the have a stone in their hands and it is 11 am --finance forum, "impact of inflation on business," 
verge of a collapse'' because of way it is being conducted. so heavy that it will kill you with by william weisz, hayes-healy aud. 
"capitulations" in pursuing de­"Detente is necessary, but de-one single blow. Detente becomes 
12:15 pm  --lecture "to rosemounde: traumati~ monologue," by prof. 202, o'shaug.  chaucer's gentile edward vasta, rm  
1:15 pm  --seminar, "semiconducting memories", ralph jackodine, rm 327, nieuw. sci. hall.  by  dr.  
3 pm  --workshop, "tibetan meditation," by prof. reginald ray, lib. lounge.  


tente with the Soviet Union. tente with open hands," he said. self-deception, that's what it is all ''I wouldn't be surprised at the "Show that there is no stone in about." sudden and imminent fall of the 
t"""'"""'''...."".................., .............,
West," Solzhenitsyn told intervie­wer Michael Charlton of the British 
~ Management-oriented
Broadcasdting Corp. on the weekly television news proram "Panora-

I Sales Trainees ~ 
.. 

rna. "I would like to make myself ~ Ed Fanning Chevrolet, located in Aurora, Dlinois (soon to ~ clear: the situation at the moment ! be the serond largest city in the state of illinois), will be on ~ 
3:30pm --lecture, II critical theology and work'', by dr. francis fiorenza, hayes-healy aud. 
3:30pm --computer course, "cobol", rm 115, math bldg. 
4:30pm --lecture, "sexism in the u.s. economy", by nancy barrett, grad. stud. lounge, Iafortune. 
4:30pm --seminar, "the evolution of domesticity and the yellow fever mosquito", by g.a.h. mcclelland, rm 278 galvin aud. 
6:30 pnl --meeting, ladies of notre dame, lib. aud. 
7 pm --meeting, sophomore students interested 1n the irish studies program, rm 121, o'shaug. 
7 pm -·meeting, fresh·nan interested in entering the coli. of arts and letters, rm 101 law bldg. 
7, 9, 11 pm --film, "monty python and the holy grail", eng. aud. $1. 
7:30pm --meeting, faculty senate, rm 202, cce. 
7:30pm --meeting, charismatic prayer, Iafortune rathskeller. 
8 pm --lecture, "meditation and higher education: a buddhist approach to learning", by prof. reginald ray, Iafortune amphitheater. 
8 pm --lecture, "an historical review of desegregation in public schools," by john buggs, rm 101, law bldg. 
9:30pm --meeting, an tostal, Iafortune amphitheater. 


Six accounting students to receive awards tonight 
Beta Alpha Psi will present to junior level Accountancy majors. 
several students in the Accountan­cy department with awards for the Academic Year of 1975-76 tonight during their Spring initiation meet­ing at the Holiday Inn, Niles, Michigan. Dr. Ray M. Powell, CPA and chairman of the Depart­ment will make the awards. 
The recipients and their awards are: 
--Thomas F. Modglin will receive the 20th Annual Haskins and Sells Award for Excellence in Account­ing. 
··Richard Alan Deak who is a 

nominee for The State Farm Com-~Wt-­
panies Foundation $1,500 Scholar­
1 

is such that the Soviet Union's Ill'! campus Thesday, March 9, 1976 to recruit management-on-.­economy is on such a war footing ~ ented sales trainees who would be interested in a career ~ that, even if it were the unanimous 
! opportunity with outstanding growth potential in the retail .­
opinion of all the members of the 
1111'! autmmbile business. We are interested in young, ~ 
Politburo not to start a war, this 
~ aggressive sales personnel who will have the knowledge and ~ 
would no longer be in their power. 
! ability to grow with the future plans of the rompany, who will ~ 
"To avoid this," the author went 
~ be able to move on into management positions and berome ~ 
on, "would require an agonizing 
~ leaders of men. Ill'!
change from a monstrous war economy to a normal peace econo­~ ~~personnel we ~ seeking should have the desire for an ! mv. The situation now is such that I ambitious career which would lead them to dealership ~ o~e must think not of what might I management-ownership. Ill'! 
happen unexpectedly in the Soviet 
~........................, .....,,,,,,,,...............1
Union, because in the Soviet Union nothing will happen unexpected­
!y. " t'\RMANDO IS NOW LOCATED NEAR CAMPUSf "One must think of what might 
tTO GIVE YOU THE CUl OR STYLE YOU WANtl
happen unexpectedly in the West. The West is on the verge of a f c:..-/fvn~..1.nJo'j_ da.7.bt:7. & _..lf."Lh ~~t!J{~ S/;~.1 /2 f collapse created by its own hands.'' 
t t
0PENSIXDAYSAWEEK

Solzhenitsyn, visiting his publi­
t t
M_-.. · THRU FRIDAY 8 TO 5:30 · SATUF-li!AY l:l TO -1

shers in England, said he has noted a particular decline in the strength 
t PERSONALIZED SERVICE t
and resolution of the West during the two years since he was expelled 'ARMA.ND0 FEMIA 1437 N._IRONWOOD DR. ' from his homeland. ' PHONE 277·06'5 SOUTH BEND. INDIANA ' He attributed the decline to an 
fFOR APPOINTMENT f
illusory detente and cited the success of Soviet-backed forces in 

~----------------~ 
Angola as the latest indication of the Soviet Union's long-range goals. 
Solzhenitsyn, 57, who was awar-


SCHOLARSHIPS 


Night Editor: Bob Brink 
LOANS-GRANTS-JOBS

Asst. Night Editor: Bill Rivard 
layout Staff: Frank Kebe Day Editor: Don Reimer 

--Mark 0. Zenger who has been Copy Reader: Don Reimer nominated for the Arthur H. Carter 
NEW AND RENEWALS
Editorials: Jim StevensAmerican Accounting Association 

Scholarship. 
The Observer is published Monday through R"iday a1d weekly during the surrmer session, except during the exams a1d vacation periOds. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame a1d St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purdlased for $18 ($10 per semester) froTI The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, lndia1a 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556.
ND 
Sports: Fred Herbst 
FOR 1976-77 

Typists: Mel Celeste Howard Halle ' 
Night Controller: Howard 
Halle ·APPLICATION DEADLINE: 
Ad layout: Joe Graif, Paul MAY 1, 1976
l Timmons 
J 
William Saroyan's 

MYHEART'S INTHE
ship for graduate study in Business and Law. 
HIGHLANDS. 
--Randal E. Suttles who will 
SMC

receive the Indiana Association of With HEU.O OUT THERE as CPA's Award. an1ain raiser. .. Philip A. Delaney who will {In mniundion \Nith the national Bimn­reccive the Robert Hamilton Award tennial Festival-11 An Alrmst
THEATRE.

in Accountancy. 
· Chosen n.-ple")
··Daine L. Wolfe and James o----------1 n:u Richard Windmiller who will re­
Tuesday, Marrn 9 at 8:15 P.M.· 
ceive the 9th Annual Ernst and 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM
Ernst Foundation Awards for 
St. Mary's Ar»AISSION FREE-TICKETS 284-4176
Achievement in Accounting given 

: $.50 mixed drinks all night ···~ . 
Parents' Confidential Statement-Renewal 
Forms to be filed by April 15, 1976 
University of Notre Dame 
Financial Aid I Scholarships Room 111 -D Administration Building Notre Dame, Indiana 
Since St. Pat's day faDs over : break we will be having a : 

: Wed. March 4 Dates to Remember; St. Pat's Party early. : + Spring Break Party $.50 all mixed drinks. + 
+ Everyone invited Green beer, and dancing to + 
Sat. March 6 +
M h McNamara's band, ..&.
+ 
Thurs. arc 5 Live entertainment 10-3 .... 

+ 
$.25 7 & 7 7-11 formerly the Talisman Four Leaf ~lover, a~d :

+ 
f 1 t · many other Insh favontes. 


......................~~~··';~•••••••••••••••~••••.: 
. ' .. 
3

Tuesday, March 2, 1976 the observer
From Capt. Kangaroo to McKay 
Senior Class Fellow candidates vary widely 
The five candiates for this year's York. A Ralph Nader type news­appeared in the Rose Bowl 7 out of of television. In the past, he has for his role in the "Aspen Freak Senior Class Fellow exhibit a great hawk, Rivera has also reported on · 9 years during his tenure as USC's been connected with the Suffolk Power Uprising." Running for variety in their interests and occu­prostitution in Ne\v York City, head football coach. Though his County Hearing and Speech Cen­Sheriff in a free-for-all electionbs pations. The nominees range from consumer affairs, and the after­overall record at Southern Cal ter, Police Athletic League, the which shattered the integrity of the an NFL halfback to Captain Kanga­math ofthe Attica uprising. Rivera stands at 127-40-8, more important United Fund, Good Samaritan local major parties, Thompson roo. was also the host of last summer's to Irish fans is his 8-6-2 record Hospital in West Islip, N.Y., and drew national attention. The Freak 
Rocky Bleier, the former ND Good Morning America for ABC. against Notre Dame. A gentleman the College of New Rochelle. Power ticket was narrowly defeat­halfback and team captain, heads The third nominee is the Univer­on and off the gridiron, McKay A dynamic speaker, Keeshan ed. Thompson has also inspired the list of nominees. Bleier played sity of Southern California's John stands for "class" to those who received the Sylvania Award in Gary Trudeau's "Uncle Duke" in a vital role in .starting ND-SMC McKay. For the Class of 1976, nominated him. 1956, the Peabody Award in 1958, the popular "Doonesbury." invovlement in the Logan Center John McKay has meant one thing Though the fourth nominee is the Freedom Foundation Award in All Notre Dame seniors are during his year here. The only NFL three out of four times: embaras­best known by millions as Captain 1962 and 1972, and the Ohio State encouraged to vote for one of these player to serve in Viet Nam, Bleier sing, shocking, and bitter defeat. Kangaroo, Bob Keeshan is also an Award in 1973. candidates. The voting will be was a key member of the 1976 The Head Football Coach and accomplished producer and an Commenting on the fifth nomi­from 9 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. ot• World Championship Pittsburgh Athletic Director of Southern Cali­outspoken critic of television pro­nee, Kurt Vonnegut wrote: "Hun­Wednesday night at the Alumni Steelers. Despite a serious foot fornia has lost but once to the Irish gramming. A former Marine, ter Thompson is the most creatively Club and during lunch and dinnet injury incurred while aiding others during the four years the seniors Keeshan first appeared as Clara­crazy and vulnerable of the New Thursday at the dining halls. in the war, Bleier fought back to have been at Du Lac. bell on the Howdy Doody Show in Jouranlists. His books are brilliant Ballots can also be cast at the gain a starting berth on the McKay has always been recog­1947. He also appeared in and and honorable and valuable...the Huddle from 10 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. Steelers. nized for his outstanding coaching produced several other children's literary equivalent of Cubism: all on Thursday. 
Geraldo Rivera first gained abilities in Notre Dame circles. His shows before beginning as the rules are broken." Dr. Hunter S. If anyone has any questions tht y national attention when his investi­teams have been declared National popular Captain Kangaroo in 1955. Thompson mans the National Af­should call Jim Ferry at 3692. gative news team exposed the Champions four times (1962, 1967, A consultant on children's pro­fairs Desk of Rolling Stone Maga­shockingly squallid conditions at 1972. and 1974). They have gramming, Keeshan's interests zine as the crown prince of Gonzo 
Fr. Griffin to say

Willowbrook State Hospital in New finished in the top ten 9 times and can also be found outside the realm journalism. Adhering to his counter-cultural outlook, Thompson has surveyed daily Lent Mass
Ford proposes $3.5 billion fund 
the social and political phenomena Fr. Robert Griffin will be sayingof the 60's and 70's in his books, Mass daily Monday through Friday Hell's ·Angels: A Strange and during Lent in the LaFortuneTerrible Saga of the Outlaw Motor­
for educational aid program 
Ballroom. The Masses will becycle Gans, Fear and Loathing in celebrated each day at 12:15 p.m.

Las Vegas, and Fear and Loathing
WASHINGTON (AP) · President tionally deprived," Ford said, dary education. most of it shannel­beginning this Wednesday (which
on the Campaing Trail '72.
Ford sent Congress plans Monday "with a minimum offed~ral regula­ed through numerous narrow cate­is Ash Wednesday). All are
Thompson, who spoke to a capacity
for a $3.5 billion education grant tion and a maximum of local gorical programs. welcome to come to the services.
crowd in Washington Hall last
for the states, mainly to aid por and control.'' Pushing his philosophy that Ashes will be distributed at the
year, is perhaps best remembered
handicapped youngsters. Ford's program would give the more control should be transferred Mass on Wednesday. 
The program for fiscal year 1977 states $3.3 billion to aid elementary to state and local governments,would replace 24 separate educa­and secondary schools and educa­Ford said in pormoting the block Irish Studies 
tion funds now in effect and the tion for the handicapped, adult grants:President emphasized that no state education and vocational educa­"It is time that we reconcile our 
meeting tonight
would get less money than it did tion. good intentions with the recogni­
before. 
"To assure that students with tion that we at the federal level There will be a meeting for allThe aim is to end the heavy special needs." such as those in cannot know what is best for every sophomores interested in the Eng­burden of regulations and red tape poverty areas, "receive proper schoolchild in every classroom in lish Department's Irish Studies
that states now have to cope with attention to proposed legislation the country." Program Tues., March 2, at 7 p.m.and to give thme more control over provides that 75 per cent' of a He added: "My proposal is in Room 121 of O'Shaughnessy..
education, Ford said. state's allocation be spent on based on the conviction that educa­The main feature of the IrishThe main focus would be "on 
educationally deprived and handi­tion needs can be most effectively Studies Program is a junior year in
improved education opportunities capped and that vocational educa­and creatively met by allowing 
residence at the School of Irishfor those with very special needs-­tion programs continue to be states greater flexibility in the use Studies in Dublin. the handicapped and the educa-supported,'' Ford said in a mes­of federal funds." 
Students who are interested in sage to Congress. He told Congress, in seeking becoming English majors and who 
For the next three fiscal years, their prompt and favorable action have a special interest in Irish
Fiorenza to give 
ford said, he proposed increasing on his proposal that "this legisla­literature should attend this meet­the block grant by $200 million in tion will allow people at the state 
ing.
theology lecture each year from 1976 through 1980. and local level to stop worrying He proposed that the funds be about entangling federal red tape 
Impress your chick, or man. Enter 
Dr. Francis Fiorenza, assistant 
and win the C.A.U.S.E. Arm Wrest­
made available before the start of and turn their full attention to 
ling contest.
professor of theology at the Univer­
the school year. educating our youth."
sity of Notre Dame, will discuss Under the present separate cate­"Critical Theology and Work" at 

gory grants tht include aid to the Philosophy intents 
3:30 p.m. today in the auditorium disadvantaged, the handicapped,of the Hayes-Healy Center. the deaf and blind, special pro­to meet tonightThe program is part of the grams for vocational and adult 
College of Business Administra­education, school libraries, re­The Philosophy Department will tion's "Design of Humanistic search and other programs, the hold a meeting Wednesday night at Work" lecture series. federal government provided $3.24 7 p.m. in room 118, O'Shaughnessy 
Fiorenza will compare diverse billion in fiscal 1975. for any freshmen interested in historical attitudes toward work in · A While House fact sheet esti­becoming a Philosophy major or a religion and theology. He also will mated that the federal government double major including philosophy. explore how contemporary work supports about 7 per cent of the All interested freshmen are en­
experience critically questions tra­total cost of elementary and secon-couraged to attend. 


JULIO'S 
now starring 
PAN PIZZA 
Phone 232-7919 







/ea~Jtojt f'-Mzda•n,l 

llFFANY&CO. 
CHICAGO 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE • ZIP: 60611 • TEL: (312) 944·7506 
Add one dollar tor shipping and handling plus sales tax where applicable
. 

. . ·-· ' • American _fxpress • BankAme1icard 


Proceedings to 
Mock Political Conventic 
Fred Harris of tax reform. ant1-monopoly legis­Birch Bayhlation and human issues. In 1967. Harris took membership 
Indiana Senator Birch Bayh hasAccording to Tom Clements, on the National Advisory Commis­the potential to emerge as thecampaign manager for Fred Harris, sion on Civil Disorders and later ''leading liberal candidate on a"For those liberally minded, Harris served as co-chairman of the Urban liberal campus,'' according to his presents a good view." Clements Coalition's Commission on the Notre Dame campaign managerstated that Harris has a "fairly cities in the 1970's. In 1969 and Wendell Walsh.

good chance" at the N.D. Mock 1970. he was chairman of the Bayh, born near Terre Haute,Political Convention nomination. Democratic National Committee. 
Indiana, received his agriculturalHarris was born in Oklahoma He has also worked with tax reform degree from Purdue University inand received a degree in govern­and food monopolies. 

1951 and his law degree from the ment and history. including a law Clements stated that Harris "is University of Indiana. He was firstdegree from the University of probably doing better nationally elected to the Senate in 1964 at the

Oklahoma. than on campus. The basic age of 34 and has since beenAfter establishing his own law problem is that he is not very well 

re-elected in 1968 and 1974. Bayhpractice he worked with the Okla­known" Clements said, and thus is presently a member of thehoma State Senate and, beginning "he will have problems." 
Senate Judiciary and Appropria­in 1964. was twice elected to the So far there has been a "Fairly tions Committees.

U.S. Senate. There he built a good response at campaign head­
record as a plain spoken advocate quarters" Clements noted. As chairman of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Constitutional Amendments, Bayh has guided through the Senate Constitutional Amendments pertaining to presi­
Delegates debate "conservative" platform: 
dential succession and the 18-year­old vote. The pending Equal Rights Amendment is also a

abortion, busing, aid to education, economy 
product of Bayh 's efforts. by Terry Keeney Bayh also chairs the Judiciary Editor-in-Chief tee rejected a proposal from the Foreign Policy tior> in the schools. The proposals Committee on Juvenile Delinquen­
Women's Caucus to permit govern-seek to improve the quality of cy and led the fight for the passage The Mock Political Convention will ment-regulated abortion. This --Greater cooperation with the education in poorer schools and of the Juvenile Justice Act. debate a platform which advocates plank appears as a minority report NATO. countries of Western Eu-allow greater neighborhood control Walsh explained that Bayh's greater government control of the in the formal platform and is rope and promotion of the Western of the schools. It also proposes a national strategy is to "emerge as 
. economy, state aid to private and expected to be brought to a vote on Europe Common Market. system of vouchers to allow stu-the last liberal in the field." He 
~ 
! parochial schools and a constitu­the Convention floor Thursday --Continuation of detente, but dents to select the school they wish pointed to Bayh's strong stands on I( tional amendment to prohibit abor­night. not at the expense of American to attend. the issues and noted that Bayh's'/ tion. interests abroad and at home. campaign on campus has been 
The 43-page document, adopted Some provisions unconstitutional? --Continuation of relations with Health Care "geared towards the issues."
~ ~ 
,.. by the Platform Committee for China to maintain pre-Western ties consideration by the entire Conven­Some planks of the Convention with the New Chinese leadership. The platform recognizes health as a tion beginning tomorrow night, platform may be unconstitutional. --Reduced support of overseas necessary part of an individual's also favors decriminalization of The plank on campaign financing military forces. but the strengthen­ability to enjoy life. and liberty. It Morris K. Udall marijuana, stricter licensing of advocates maintainance of "rea­ing of the navy. proposes subsidized clinics for firearms and an end to court-ord­sonable ceilings" on individual depressed areas where medical Morris Udall"stands a real good ered busing for school desegraga­campaign contributions. The Su­Defense personnel are lacking. Compre­chance" ofwinning the Democratic tion. preme Court last month struck hensive National Health Care In­nomination at the Mock Convention 
The platform is representative of down limits on individual contribu­--Reduce the number of military surance is also advocated to help this week, according to his Notre the political beliefs of the Notre tions as unconstitutional. personnel stationed overseas. relieve the financial burden of Dame campaign manager Scott Dame student body, Mock Conven­Platform proposals to provide --Reduce Federal spending on skyrocketing medical costs. Brinkman. tion organizers claim. financial aid to parents of students the military be controlling ''white "After the New Hampshire pri­
"It's an interesting document," in private schools may also conflict elephant" defense projects. Energy mar~· he seems to be the head of said Vince Moschella, co-chairper­with Supreme Court decisions --Improvement of the navy. the liberal forces,.. commented son of the Mock Convention. which have struck down similar The platform advocates strict safe­Brinkman about Udall. "After Moschella said that the platform state plans to aid private schools. Funding of Education guards on the use of nuclear or Carter and Humphrey, he is a could not be classified as either The Convention is scheduled to fossil fuel energy, greater concern strong third." liberal of conservative, but he begin consideration of the platform --Urge the states to adopt pro­for environmental effects of energy After four years of service with termed it "cautious". on Wednesday and conclude grams to aid in financing provate and renewed search for new sourc­the Air Force in the Pacific during 
Thursday. Much debate is expec­education on the primary and es of energy. the Second World War, Udall
,\ 
Platform seen as conservative ted on items for which minority secondary level. The Platform --Decrease aid to build roads and returned to his native state, Arizo­
'( planks have been submitted: urges the adoption of a tax write-off increase aid for mas transportation. na. and received his law degree in ( Although many of the economic abortion, busing, family planning, or outright stipend to parents of --The platform advocates strict I949 from the Universitv of Arizo­proposals are liberal in the classic labor relations and health care. private or parochial school stu­safeguards on the use of nuclear or na. He was elected to Congress in 
Democratic New Deal tradition, Important planks of the Mock 1961. 
l 
( dents. fossil fuel energy, greater concern '( Moschella noted that much of the Convention Platform include the for environmental effects of energy Presently Udall is serving as the I platform reflects the conservatism following: Abortion and renewed search for new sourc­chairman of the Environmental of the students. He cited the plank es of energy. subcommittee of the House Com­against abortion, which passed the The Economy --Constitutional amendment. mittee on Interior and Insular Platform Committee by a two to The platform recognizes the fetus Crime Affairs. As a member of the 
one margin. and the anti-busing --Government should consider as a human life from the moment of Interior Committee. Udall has been f plank, which passed almost unani­becoming "the employer of the last conception. Because no person of --Decriminalization of marijuana. involved in the passage of many 

~ 
mously. resort," with responsibility for law should be allowed to denyf The platform was actually writ­creating jobs at the community human life, the platform calls for ( ten by a small group of students, level. the extension of the 14th Amend­( but represents the input of over 100 --The Federal government ment rights to the unborn by all students, according to Moschella. should encourage corporate plan­legal means, including a constitu­Platform hearings were open to the ning for future needs. tional amendment to prohibit abor­public and included reports from --Tax reform to index the rate of tion.} the Women'sCaucus and the Black progressive tax to individuals to the Caucus. rate of inflation and to raise the tax Busing ~ The most heated plank on the rate on incomes over $30,000. ~ 
platform was its anti-abortion --Provide greater assistance to The platform proposes alternatives stand. In a debate lasting two and farmers in the form of subsidy for to court ordered busing of school a half hours, the Platform Commit-crop parity. ., children to acheive racial integra­
} 
( 
r 
( 
( 
~ 
t 
( 
AGARDEN Cf WE~DS 

Marijuana users should be treated conservation measures, including in the same manner as alcohol his amendment to the Alaskan users. Native Claims Settlement Act 
--Greater control of the sale and which saved more than 80 million 
use of handguns. Provisions acres of land from private exploita­include firearm registration and tion. licensing, greater enforcement of In 1971. Udall led a coalition on existing legislation and increased the successful passage of the penalities for crimes involving fire­Campaign Reform Act, which has arms. been the law responsible for many 
Encouraging Words 

Dear Delegates: to continue your involvement in the 
This is a time of intense national political process at the local, state debate concerning the directions and national levels. that we should choose as a nation 
I deeply believe that our nation'sas we begin our third century. I greatest strength in its first twoknow that the Demo~rats and other hundred years has been the wide­concerned citizens across the coun­spread participation of our citizenry try will join me in following closely in the political system. Activitiesthe results of your 1976 Mock such as this convention, bringingNational Convention. The diversity together so many enthusiastic and· of your . backgrounds and the well-informed young people, de­thoughtfulness and vigor of your 

monstrate the continued desire todebates will combine to make your participate in our system. Theydecisions instructive to us all. 

inspire my confidence in the basicBut perhaps even more impor­strength of this republic in thetant to our nation's future is the century ahead.

practical experience that you as individuals will gain from participa­Sincerely, ting in a national party convention. Robert S. Strauss I am hopeful that many of you will 
Democratic National use the skills that you develop here Committee Chairman 



' I I I 
begin Wednesda~ • f Mock Democratic 1 >n to nominate Pres1dent: National Conventionl 
of the Watergate-related prosecu­
tions. 
On the national level, Brinkman 
said that if Carter can be stopped. 
Udall has a good chance as the 
leading liberal. Since his strong 
showing in the New Hampshire 
primary there has been a renewed 
interest in the Udall campaign, 
noted Brinkman. and he expects 
that after the Massechusetts pri­
mary there will be even more 
interest in Udall. 
George Wallace 
When asked what George Wal­lace's chances were at the N.D. Mock Political Convention. Doug Kenyon. campaign manager for Walace stated: "We expect a fair amount of support on the first ballot. From there. it will depend on what Jackson docs." 
Coming from a politically-mind­ed family in Alabama. Wallace graduated from the University of Alabama in 1942 with a law degree. 
In 1946. after serving four years with the U.S. Air Corps, he became .at age 27. Assistant Attorney General of Alabama. From 1952­1953. Wallace served as the Circuit Judge of the Third Judicial Caircuit and in 1962 was elected Governor of Alabama. He has since held the office for three terms. 
He pursued presidential cam­paigns in 1968 and 1972 and has been involved in the allocation of funds for health. recreation and education. 
Nationallv. Kenvon stated Wal­lace's cha.nces are "not very good." Kenyon said that "the base support of the party is not there." 
When asked how Wallace's campaign is progressing on cam­pus. Kenyon noted: "people have been generally apathetic, including the delegates." 

Henry M. "Scoop" 
Jackson 

The success of Henry Jackson's campaign for the nomination at the Mock Democratic Convention "depends on what the students are looking for," according to his Notre Dame campaign manager Steve Reynolds. 
"Nationally, however, his chan­ces are a lot better," explained Reynolds. "He represents the flow of what people feel." 
Jackson, who at the age of only 26 was elected County Prosecutor of Snohomish County, Washington, has served in the House and Senate for 34 years. During his years in the House, Jackson was known for his strong pro-civil rights stance, and following his election to the Senate in 1952, Jackson established an outstanding leadership record on environmental issues. 
As chairman of the Senate inquiry into the Russian grain deals, Jackson has argued that there is a difference between a detente based on fundamental reciprocity and one which helps camouflage a series of unequal bargains, like the grain deal. 
"Jackson bears more looking into," commented Reynolds. "His programs dealing with busing, detente, energy and economics are probably the most workable pro­grams.'' 
Crosby S. Noyes, a syndicated columnist, has stated, "Jackson can demonstrate the charisma of competence. After 34 years in the House and Senate, he knows what he is talking about.'' 
Jimmy Carter 
Ascertaining Jimmy Carter's chances in the upcoming N.D. Mock Political Convention, Marita Spadola, Campaign manager for Carter, stated: "We think he has a really good chance to win, probably the best chance of any of the delegates." 
Carter. a native of Georgia. graduated in 1946 from the U.S. Naval Academy and did graduate work on the development of the world's first atomic submarines. He was elected to the Georgia Senate in 1962 and in 1970 was elected Governor. 
While Governor, he sponsored legislation to equalize education funds between .the rich and the poor, raise teachers' salaries, unify government agencies. His admini­stration bills, which were passed, included environmental protection laws and prison reform legislative packages. 
On the national scene, Spadola stated that "he is one of the prime contenders," but "right now it is hard to say". After the Mass. and· Florida primaries, "we'll be able to have a better idea," she noted. 
According to Spadola, Florida, particularly, will be an important state. If he can gain support in this traditionally pro-Wallace state, he will be that much more effective in the Democratic Convention this summer. 
Spadola stated that the Carter campaign on campus is "going real well." 
Milton Shepp 
Milton Shapp, governor of Penn­sylvania, has a ''big problem in name recognition'' and because of this is not taken seriously national­ly by many people, according to Shapp's Mock Convention Cam­paign Manager Harry Capadano. 
Shapp's campus campaign has been designed as a "favorite son" campaign while his major hope is "to be an influential candidate on the vice presidential nomination Saturday," Capadano said. 
A former advisor to the Peace Corps during the Kennedy Admin­istration, Shapp was elected gover­nor of Pennsylvania in 1970 and was re-elected in 1974. 
Capadano said that the candi­date's "economic policies are im­pressive." Shapp received much acclaim for his work with the Jerrold Electronic Company, which he founded and in which he encouraged the hiring of minori­ties. 
Shapp has run in gubernatorial races in Pennsylvania on his merits as a businessman capable of wiping out deficits in the state budget and received national attention several years ago when he met personally with truck drivers in an effort to end a nationwide Teamsters strike. 
"He's really not a big gung-ho guy," Capadano commented, but persons interested in Shapp on campus have found out what they wanted to know. Capadano added that he would like to see more 
interest though. 
Shapp plans to set up a commu­nication system "to let the people know at campaign headquarters what is going on on the floor," according to Capadano. Shapp is a 1933 graduate of Case Institute of Technology (now Case Western Reserve University) and served as a captain in the U.S. Army Signal Corps in North Africa, Italy and Austria. 

Edward Kennedy 

Although Senator Edward Ken­nedy of Massachusetts is not a declared candidate, a campaign to draft him at the Mock Convention has been organized. It is specula­ted that if no candidate emerges on the first ballot at the Democratic Convention this summer, a similar draft may occur. 
Hubert H. Humphrey 
Senator Humphrey of Minnesota is also not a declared candidate. Yet he has received the endorse­ment of the campus Black Caucus. 
Mark Frieden, press secretary for the Mock Convention, commen­ted on the possibility of a Kennedy or Humphrey draft. "There is an effort on camrus to try to draft either Ted Kennedy or Hubert Humphret and, as such, they are recognized as official groups at the Mock Politic~ I Convention,'' Frie­den said. "This is not to say they will be successful. They are recog­nized though." 
Robert Byrd 

The campaign of Senator Robert Byrd of West Virginia, Senate Majority Whip, is more intended to secure him the vice presidential nomination. Frieden said, "As I understand his campaign, he would be willing to accept a vice presiden­tial nomination." 
Sargent Shriver 

Shriver, who was the Vice-Presi­dential candidate on the unsucces­sful McGovern campaign in 1972 "is doing better on campus than he is nationally," according to his Notre Dame campaign manager Joe Anderson. 
Anderson credits Shriver's visit to campus several years ago as the main factor in his campus seccess, but cautions that "most people on campus have a wait-and-see atti­tude" towards the large field of candidates. 
Shriver, a native of Maryland, graduated from Yale Law School in 1941 after which he served in the Navy for 5 years during the Second World War. When he returned to civilian life in 1946, Shriver took a job as the manager of Joseph P. Kennedy's Chicago Merchancise Mart which he held unti11960 when he joined the Presidential camp­aign of his brother-in-law, John F. Kennedy. 
After Kennedy's election, the President-elect asked Shriver to organize the newly formed Peace Corp. Wtlile in the position as head of the Peace Corps Shriver visited more than SO countries in Africa , Latin America and Asia. Under President Johnson Shriver directed the Office of Economic Opportuni­ty, which was the first full scale effort to attack the problems of the nation's poor. 
From 1968 to 1970 Shriver served as ambassador to France, and since 1970 he has specialized in interna­tional law and foreign affairs. 
On the national acene, Anderson noted that if Shriver doesn't do well in Massachusetts" he will probably drop out or take a vice-ppresidenti­al bid.'' Shriver is presently short of money, Anderson noted, but he is still very serious about his campaign. 
It Agenda for 1976 !t f Wednesday; Ma.rch 3 f 
"I
!6:00 pm University of Notre Dame Varsity Band, Directed by f : Mr. Robert O'Brien, playing a variety of traditional f ' and patriotic songs. 
f 630 pm Invocation given by Rev. Robert Griffm, C.S C., ! 
University Chaplain. ' t Presentation of Arms by Army ROTC. f ' National Anthem, University of Notre Dame Varsity ' 
: Band. '' Introduction of the evening's guests, Temporarv ' Chairperson. 't' Official Opening Address by Rev. Theodore Hes-f 
' burgh. ' 
' "This is myCountry,"sung by the Notre Dame Glee ' ' Club, Mr. William Hillstrom, Student Director. f ' Welcommg Remarks by Mr. Nemeth, Mayor, City of ' 
' South Bend. 'f Keynote Address by Mr. Robert Strauss, Chairman, ' National Democratic Party. ' t Program bv the Notre Dame Glee Club. f 
' Official Call to Convention by the Temporary j ' Chairperson. 'f Report of Credentials Committee, Mr. Kevin j 
' Bouffard, Chairperson. ' ' Consideration and adoption of the credentials ff Committee Report by the Convention. f 
Election of Permanent Convention Chairperson.f Election of Permanent Convention Vice-Chairper-f 
son.t Report of Rules Committee. ff Consideration and Adoption of Rules Committee f 

Report by Convention.f Adjourn for the Evening. f 
f Thursday, March 4 f 
f 6:30 pm University of Notre Dame Jazz Band, Directed By ft Rev. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C. f 
t7:00 pm Invocation given by Dr. Gerhart Niemeyer. ff Presentation of Arms. f National Anthem, University Jazz Band.t Memorial Service in honor of Dr. Paul Bartholemew. ff Memorial Speech, Rev. Raymond Cour, C.S.C. ' 
Presentation of Memorial Plaque to Mrs. ' t Bartholemew, Ms. Nancy Brenner and Mr. Vincent ft Moschella, Conventio.n Co-Chairpersons. ' 
Introduction of the evening's guests, convention'f Chairperson. ft Keynote Address, Congressman Donald Riegle, ' 
Dem., Michigan. ' f Report of the Platform Committee, Mr. Richard f Littlefield, Chairperson.
f Consideration and Adoption of the Platform Commi-f ' tee Report by the Convention. ' ' Adjourn for the Evening. ' 
: Friday, March 5 I 
' 6:30pm University of Notre Dame Varsity Band, Directed by ! ' Mr. Robert O'Brien. ' 
f7:00pm Invocation by Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. ff f
Presentation of Arms. 

National Anthem, University Varsity Band.t Introduction of the evening's guests, Convention ff Chairperson. f 
Roll Call for Presidential Nominations.-f Keynote Address by Senator Gary Hart, Dem ., f 
Colorado.t Ballotting for Pre.sidential Nominations. ff Appointment of Committee to Advise Nominee. f 
Adj-ourn for the Evening.

t t fSaturday, March 6 f 
t tf12:00 noon University of Notre Dame jazz Band, Directed by ff Rev. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C. f 
t 
f12:30 pm Invocation by Rev. Raymond Cour, C.S.C. f Presentation of Arms.f National Anthem, University Jazz Band. f Introduction of the Afternoon's guests by convention' Chairperson. ' f Keynote Address by Congressman John Brademus, f Dem., Indiana.t Sen. Patrick Leahy, Dem., Vermont. f Roll Call for Vice-Presidential Nominations. 
t

t 
Appointment of Committee to Advise Nominee.f Acceptance speech by Presidential Nominee or his f Representative.t Adjourn Convention. f 
f 9:00 om-Semi-Formal Dance, Stepan Center, in commemora-f tion of the 1976 Mock Convention and the
1:00am 
Bicentennial 


. ' .. 
the observer Tuesday, March 2, 1976
6 

-
. 

Soviets praise 'martyrs and heroes' 
security"--and  to  a  proposal  to  
build  a  statue  in  their  honor  in  
Moscow.  

MOSCOW (AP) -Flushed by the victory of Soviet-backed forces in Angola, the Soviet Communist party congress gave unanimous praise Monday to leftist-revolu­tionaries abroad and vowed contin­ued support for their efforts. 
There was also an attempt to tone down the chief problem con­fronting the congress--ideological differences with Communist par­ties in the West. Party leader Leonid I. Brezhnev met with his outspoken Italian counterpart, En­rico Berlinguer, and they issued a communique affirming "respect 
for each other's independence." 

Double agent found dead hours after paper exposes espionage 
THE CRUCIBLE 
~NO 
Arthur Miller's powerful drama examning events surrounding 
SMC 
the Salem witch hunts. 
I H E. t~ T F r: 
Mar. 4, 5, 6 
at 8:00 P.M. 
All Seats S2. 00 
OlAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM
(Std-Fac. $1.50) Alone: 284-4176 (St. Mary's) 
DALLAS (AP) -The Dallas Times Herald said Monday it published a report on the spying activities of retired oil company engineer Nor­man John Rees despite a telephon· eel threat by Rees that he would commit suicide if the story were published and he were identified. 
Rees was found shot to death at his home in Southbury. Conn .. Sunday. hours after the newspaper reported his espionage activities. 
"In this instance, it was decided that the story could not be suppres­sed even in the face of Mr. Rees' threat." Ken Johnson, executive editor of the Times Herald, said in a statement Monday. 
The newspaper said in a copy­right story Sunday that Rees pas­sed pertroleum industry secrets to the Russians and became a double agent for the FBI in 1971 when federal agents told him they knew of his work for the Russians. 
The Times Herald statement Monday said its story about Rees' spying activities was developed from various sources over a period of some three months. 
"Once the basic information had 
been verified, Mr. Rees was con­
tacted and asked to comment. He 
acknowledged during the tele­
phone interview that he had been 
an agent for the Soviet govern­
ment," the newspaper said. 
The FBI, in a weekend state­ment, also verified that Rees had been a spy for the Soviets. 
The Times herald said Rees twice came to Dallas for interviews and voluntarily submitted to poly­graph lie detector tests. During these contacts. he asked the news­paper to withhold the story and refrain from identifying him. 

The 4,99<) Soviet delegates and 100 foreign Communist delegations gave a standing ovation to a resolution in favor of legal and unaerground Communists--''the consistent advocates of peace and 
Delegates also unanimously ap­proved Brezhnev's report of last Tuesday on the progress and future course of the Soviet leadership, which pledged support for both detente and Marxist movements throughout the world. 
The Soviet Union believes that but to commit suicide, .. the news­"On Saturday afternoon, just paper said Monday.
hours prior to publication. Mr. 
Rccs. 69, a former engineer withRces telephoned the Times erald the Mobil Oil Co.. admitted takingand asked if the story was going to monev for indust:-v information andbe printed and would he be that the Soviet Union also gave himidentified. When he was told that a medal and a $;;.,ooo pension, thehe would be identified. he said that Times Herald reported.
such a disclosure left him 'lo choice 
Scotland Yard corruption tobe examined at hearings 
LONDON (AP) -Twelve retired or suspended British police detect­ives were ordered Monday to appear at hearings March 30 in what may be the biggest corruption scandal in the 147-year history of prestigious Scotland Yard. 
Two decorated ex-commanders are among the dozen men charged with conspiring to collect bribes and other considerations from por­nography merchants. Bail was set at $10.000 for each man. 
Official sources said it was the first time an officer of commander rank had been charged with corrup­tion, and the number arrested was reported to be the largest in any police scandal for at least two decades. 
Fabled in fiction and the theater, Scotland Yard has built up over the years of its existence an interna­tional reputation for integrity and incorruptibility. In recent years, however. general police criticism from left-wing and minority racial groups has included the Yard. 
After Monday's appearance in court, a lawyer and two of the accused compalined of the way the Saturday arrests were handled. 
Keneth Drury, 56, retired com­mander of the Yard's emergency 
WHYLIVE ALIFE 
WITJDJT MEANI~? 
Too many of us are in places we don't want to be. Doing things we really don't want to be doing. Sometimes, it's because we can't think of anything better to do-but that's no way to live. 
Since you have onlv one life to live, you might as well live it with joy ... with a feeling of satisfac­lion and accomplishment ... and the kno\\'ledge that you are git:ing, not taking. \\11y not decide to live 
for the best ... for a great purpose ... for something bigger than you are? 
If you want to change the di­rcction of your life, you might in­vestigate the Pauli-.t way of living. 
The Paulists are a small group of Catholic priests dedicated to preach­ing the Gospel of Christ to the American people. For over 100 years the Paulists bave done this through the communication arts­hooks, publications, television and radio-on college campuses, in par­

ishes, in ··missions in the U.S., in downtown centers, in working with young and old. Because we are flex­ible, we continually pioneer new approaches. To do this we need dedicated, innovative men to carry 
on our work. To find out \Vhat road God has chosen us to walk is one of the most important tasks of our life. \\'hich road \\'ill be yours? For more information on the Paulists, fill out the coupon and mail today. 
~-JHE\=o~~= to .\lodern A=c-a--------~ 
I IWJLISlS Name I 
Address 

I 
.\fail to: 

I 
I Re\'. Frank D1·Siano. C.S.P., City . I Room l. 143 PAl!LIST F.\TIIERS State Zip 
I 
-t 1.'5 W1•st .'59th Stn·t't Colle~e 

L~~~~~~~~~-----~~ ~ 
supporting so-called national liber­ation movements in Third World countries is not contrary to its policy of detente with the United States and other Western coun­tries. 
Speaker after speaker at the 25th congress has lavishly praised national liberation movements since Brezhnev set the line with a condemnation of "fascist-style programs" agains~ liberation fighters.
·'The congress expresses its full support for the martyrs and heroes of the revolutionary liberation movement and sends them its fraternal greetings." said the reso­
"flying squad," compalined that remarks last week by Police Com­missioner Sir Rober Mark would prejudice the case. "How can any of us have a fair trial now?" Drury asked. 
Mark said in the speech last Wednesday that a number of guilty officers have been acquitted in the past because juries are reluctant to convict policemen on the testimony of criminals. 
THE RESUME PLACE 
2 5 8 1/2 X 11 
RAG BOND 
Only $2.55 

insty-prints 
203 N. MAIN SO.BEN D, IN D 
289-6977 

. 
lution adopted Monday. It gave no specifics on what kind of help would be given. 
In great part, the resolution dealt with ''persecution and discrimina­tion against Communists" and expressed support in particular for jailed Chilean Communist leader Luis Corvalan and Communists in Uruguay, Paraguay, Guatemala, Brazil, Argentina and Haiti. 
Italian delegates interpreted the wording of the Brezhnev-Berlin­guer statement as a concession to the sovereignty of their party but would not go so far as to suggest that Brezhnev had backed down from his oft-repeated criticism of ideological revtsJOnism within Communist ranks. 
Other Western observers tended to regard the meeting and com­munique as not so much a Soviet concession as a peace gesture at a time when the congress is striking a theme of Communist cohesion. 
Berlinguer, in his speech to the congress last week, defended the right of the largest Communist party in the West to forge a path independent of Moscow and to cooperate with non-Communist I­talian parties. The Communists are the second most powerful party in Italy and have been gaining on the Christian Democrats. 
we were Here. 
Where were You? 
If you missed our last visit-and if you're a 
senior without firm post-graduation career 
plans-you might just find it worthwhile to 
investigate a career as a Lawyer's Assistant 
by speaking to us the next time we visit 
your campus. 
Why not check us out? Contact your 
placement office and find out when our 
representative will be here again. 
Don't miss us this time. Opportunity knocks but twice. 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street. Philadelphia. Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 
PROGRAM APPROVED BY THE AMERICAN BAA ASSOCIATION 

r-------------------------­
1You are invited to teach in the ! : Freshman 
J 

: Colloquium 1 t t 
t 
f Teaching the Seniol'-Freshman Colloquium is a f rewarding personal experience and a valuable contnou­tion to life at Notre Dame. Hfteen juniors will be ff chosen now to teach next year. This is the only time ' f you may enter the program ' 
I I 
1If .)UU are Interested In teaclling, rome to a meeting on II tWednesday, Mareh 3, at 4:30 in 104 O'Shaughnessy. Full infonnation will be given then. H' you cannot make Itthe meeting, call 7421 'Thursday, March 4. It will NOT fI be possible to enter the program after Thursday. t 
L-------------------------~· 

a  a  a  -­ 
• I  ;  - 
,  '  ,  ,  0  
Massachusetts primary  Tuesday, March 2, 1976  the observer  7  
'Ill;:  

Eight candidates wind up Bay State campaign 
BOSTON (AP) -While the din Gov. Ronald Reagan is on the expected a turnout of between 35 and big government will be out appearing at a Boston news confer­of campaign loudspeakers echoed Massachusetts ballot with him. and 40 per cent of the voters. voting for him. ence with former United Nations through narrow downtown streets, Niether Ford nor Reagan has Alabama Gov. George C. W al· Carter, ranked among the Mas­Ambassador Daniel P. Moynihan. Democrats waged their election­campaigned here, bQt the Presi­lace, out for his first primary of the sachusetts leaders after his victory "He is a hell of a good man," eve search for votes Monday in a dent's organization has spent about year, made a four-stop tour of the in New Hampshire's presidential said Moynihan, whose endorse­Massachusetts presidential prima­$200,000 on telephone and adverti­state before wrapping up his primary last Tuesday, wound up ment of Jackson had been disclosed ry where the ballot reads like a sing efforts. campaign in Boston, where he was his campaign Friday. He said he earlier. It was emblazoned in candidate census. There are 43 Republican dele­expected to ride a wave of opposi­expects to be among the top three full-page newspaper advertise­
With eight major candidates and gates at stake in Massachusetts, to tion to the court-ordered busing of candidates in Massachusetts. ments for Jackson. a no-preference line carving up the be divided in proportion to the Ford schol children for racial integra­Carter was attending to his Jackson said he hadn't talked vote, Massachusetts will produce a and Reagan showings. tion. southern flank, appearing in Mi­with Moynihan about the possibil­minority winner Tuesday while There are 1.31 million registered "I'm going to send a very big ami, with Florida's presidential ity that he might be appointed dividing its 104 national convention Democrats, 1.1 million indepen­shot into the Massachusetts politi­primary coming up in eight days. secretary of state if the Washington 
delegates in proportion to the dents, and 461,000 registered Re­cal establishment,'' Wallace said in Sen. Henry M. Jackson of Wash­senator wins the White House. 
popular vote share each enry gets. publicans in Massachusetts. Worcester. He said people who ington came away with the biggest State Scretary Paul Guzzi said he have been turned off by inflation name in the endorsement race,
So Monday .is a day of endorse­ments, speeches, leaflets, final 
In 1980's 

efforts to persuade voters in a contest so divided it won't take many ballots to alter the order of 
Howard predicts revolution 
finish. Vermont votes Tuesday, too, in a (continued from page 1) percent would like to see a revolu­noted, and it is time we took steps primary that will rank candidates tionary movement. The majority of to form a democratic economy in
businessmen that are running our 

but will not commit delegates. these people said that business this country.
government today," he said. 

Former Georgia Gov. Jimmy Car­should attempt a democratic sys­Howard stated mat America can
He cited World War II when 

ter, 1 <)72 Democratic vice presiden­tem operating in a political way establsih a democratic system
General Motors and ITT helped to 

tial candidate Sargent Shriver and with one person-one vote. where firms vie and compete, and
build German army tanks. They

former Oklahoma Sen. Fred Harris There are plants today it is crucial to open issues to a
had plants in Germany and when 

are on the Democratic ballot there. in a democratic wa . national debate.
these were destroyed by American President Ford is unopposed in bombs. the U.S. government paid Vermont, but former California them for the destruction of their 
plants.

Cranberry picking, "The white flag of defeat hovers over this country," Howard said.ferry obstruction He also noted that just as there was 
silence directly after the Bostonfinally legalized Massacre in 1770. there is a silence now. But, Sam Adams said then INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Prize that the movement would be spark­fighters, duelers, generals and ed again. and Howard believes that marathon dance promoters take this will also happen in America 
heart, beginning July 1, 1977, your today. activities will no longer be against "I think it will start," Howard the law in Indiana. said. He listed labor as a force that 
will start the action. "Possibly byThat's when dozens of old laws, becoming internationally organiz­

some dating to the 19the century, ~............................................................................. ~
, .. 

will be repealed when Indiana's new penal code goes into effect. 
Americans dominated Once the new code is in force, it by big business 

ed." i PRE-CANA !
will no longer be illegal to talk loud in church, race horses on public ~ 
He also cited public opmton ~ 
highways, build boats for privat­surveys in which 58 per cent of theeering or curse in a public place. 
I A special program for those I
people in America felt that big business dominated them and 49

Other laws that will disappear 
I Notre Dame students and their I
include: -Pick cranberries on public lands, 
state lands or lands owned by Music recital Ipartners preparing for marriage. I 
non-residents between May 1 and 
Sept. 16. tomorrow night ISign up in the Campus Ministry I
-Accept a challenge to a duel -Sell slugs for vending machines. Rev. Patrick Maloney, C.S.C., -Alter or deface brands on a horse. will join Marjorie Hayward Madey 
IOffice in 103 Memorial Library I 
-Obstruct ferry boats. for a concert at 8:15p.m. Wednes­-Overload animals. day in the Memorial Library Audi­
I before Spring Break. I
-Promote marathon dances, walk-torium. Dr. Milton Hallmann of athons or shatathons. Louisiana State University will be ~ ~ 
-Begin an unauthorized military the accompanist and present his ~._,,,.,,,,,................, ........, ............., ...................... 
Our jet
fares to
Burogeare
lesslhan 
any other
sclieduled
airline's. 
But our
•
SfrVIC8 ISD't. 
If you are under 22, our youth fare is made for you. $360 round-trip in April &May-$410 in June, July and August. Great food and service, direct flights from New York and Chicago with connections from other cities to Luxembourg in the heart of Europe. Fares subject to change. See your travel agent, campus rep, or write: Icelandic Airlines, 630 Fifth Ave., N.Y., N.Y. 10020. 
.:&~ 
ICElANDIC 
CN 


expedition. version of DeBussy's "L'Jsle -Engage in a prize fight or attend a Joyeuse." prize fight as a ''backer, trainer, The concert will include solo second, umpire, assistant or repor­groups of American songs and 
ter." vocal duets from song and opera. -Be a tramp by begging outside The Wednesday concert is open 
your home county. to the public without charge. 

Engineers:Find out about the Nuclear Navy. 
If yoo think you have the ability and desire to master nuclear engineering, the Navy's Nuclear Propulsion Program has openings for about 200 outstanding college graduates. There's a Navy Recruiting Officer ready to give you all the details on how you can become someone special in the new Navy. 
U. Bill Hughes will be interviewing at the Aacerrent Bureau on Marrn 9 & 10. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED Disneyland murals from Marcti Gras PERSONALS 
tor sale. Call 1348. Desperately need any NCAA tix. 
To NL

Call Laura 4264 any price!! Nikon 53 35 mm. rangefinder 50 Thanks tor accepting my apology. I mm. f1.4 Nikkor lens, Paul 8131. 
did have too much to drink. K.M.

Desperately need to buy a vehicle able to transport less than $60.00, 
Pat,call 1108. 

Blank S-track 90 min. Memorex See you at the prayer meeting in tapes at a bargain price. Call Lisa Rathskeller at 7 :30 tonight.
Want ride to and from Denver over 
8089. spring break. Will help drive and 
Shall we dance? Waltzing party, .

• pay for gas. Call Jim 3258, late FOR RENT 
March 6, 7:30 P.M. LaFortuneevenings or at lunch. 

Ballroom, tix$1.50, NDMusic Dept.

Furnished, 4 bedroom home, ND Ride needed to Oklahoma City, call 
area, $350 per month and utilities, Dear Ruth,Greg 8833, $$ and drive. 
616-445-3543, 8A.M.-5P.M. 
Is 272-6303 your answering service? The Gang

Need a ride home for break? 
Furnished houses, two to seven wilson Driveaway has cars going to 
bedrooms, available tor September To my beastly Bobo,
many destinations in the US and all or June, call 234-9364. 
Make me your coy mistress. I must you pay is gas. For information and remain anonymous a short while

applications call Jim at 1745. Summer houses and rooms for rent, 
still. Until our eventual meeting,real close to campus. Furnished, know me as the Blessed Damozel.

NOTICES ridiculously reasonable, 233-2613 or Will call you soon about a midnight
232-7263. 
rendezvous. Your secret worshipperStratus: quality rock 'n roll at P.S. I'm not ugly either.

reasonable rates. Neil 289-9763. 4,5,6 bedroom houses completely fumished, extremely nice, real close 
Countess,

Traveling during spring break? Cut to campus. September 1976, 9 Now that I'm on food deprivation, 
I

costs of getting there! Vans and month lease, 233-2613 or 232-7263. 
think I' II burn me some heretics! 

cars to many points in USA. Call Auto Driveaway, 232-1414. 2 rooms for rent, $40, call 233-1329. 
OBITUARY IBM Selectric II typing. Manuscripts 
--------------­
LOST AND FOUND dissertations, experienced 289-5193 
Lost: one gold Bulova watch inscrip­TEDDY Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho, tion on back. Reward. Call Dave 
.... 

232-0746. 
K.

1633. 
FOR SALE Lost: gold man's Benrus wristwatch BEAR in front of W alsh.1875. Teddy Koala Bear, 10, retired
Florida for Easter? Avoid the spokesbear for Qantas Airways, has 
airlines strike and buy a '68 Buick Lost in ACC locker room, 1 gold died of a kidney infedion. A LeSabre in good condition. Call braided wedding band. Reward resident of San Diego Zoo, he would 233-5030,7-12 P.M. for details. have been 11 this month. He was no
offered, no question asked 277-1568 relation to Max Baer, Jr.
or 283-7516. 
.. . .. ,. .. . . 
. ... 



-----~­
Tuesday, March 2, 1976
the observer
8 

Irish nip Broncos in overtime 95-88 
r----­
by Bill Brink The two teams outdid them-· "I couldn't believe it." said selves in providing the thriJl'i. Dantley of Tyson's shot. "But it
Sports Editor 

Notre Dame's Duck Williams p ·1l­made the game better. it was a Western Michigan. Pretenders ed the classic heroic feat when he great game." 
to glory. right? Tyrants of the broke a 76-76 tie connecting on a The Irish came out in the 
MAC (Mediocre American Confer­long jumper with but six sc-:-onds four-corners offense in overtime to 
ence). right? Western Michigan, left in the contest. Eldon M:~Ier's force the Broncos out of their zone,
~ 
r . who opened their season with Broncos called time out with :04 and when the Western Michigan .' Grand Vallev St.. Wisc.-Parkside, remaining and Jeff Ty::.on worked team responded. NO's Bill Paterno 
r ' 
Wisc.-Green. Bav and Northern the final miracle of the game when gave the Irish the advantage with a Iowa. who coasted into the top he hit a desperation 25 footer at the driving three-point play. 'Apple· 
I • 
twenty on a wave of nameless buzzer to send the game into added five more O\ ertime points
' 
'\ npponents. overtime. and ND retained control to capture Well. last night this same Wes­''I was just trying to go to the the victory. tern Michigan team shed a differ­hoop." said Duck of his seemingly "They played well the whole
'' 
.-· L'nt light on their reputation asthey game-winning shot. "I made my game," said a relieved Digger joined with the Irish of Notre Dame move and the man didn't go with Phelps. ''Their penetration was w produce one of the most exciting me. so I turned up and hit the good, they executed very well and !_!ames of the season. a thrilling jumper. That last shot of his they played smart basketball. It 95-1'18 overtime victory for the Irish (Tyson) \Vas something. We just was great for us to get back in there before a capacity crowd of 11.345 in didn't want to foul him and give against a team that's ranked like the Notre Dame ACC. him the three-point play." this one." 

"We got in foul trouble and had to change our game," explained Miller. "When you get them
'. 
shooting free throws in double figures you're in trouble. It's that simple. We came here to win and we didn't get it done." 
~· 
u The game was neck-and-neck all 
.' the way. The Broncos opened up an early lead. capitalizing on the hot outside shooting of guard Jimmie Harvey. With Western up 20-12 seven and -a-half minutes into the game the Irish began to 
come back. Toby Knight hit two 74-72. with a driving lay-up. Dave line for 29 points. Cutter was 7 of 9 baskets and Adrian Dantley scored Batton then drew Western's Marty from the floor for Western. For seven straight points for ND to give Murray into an important charging Notre Dame. which boasted a .587 them a 25-24 lead with 8:28 to go. foul with 2:46 to go. Batton missed field percentage. Dantley ended up The game sec-sawed back and the free throw. but freshman Bruce with 33 points on 12 of 18 from the forth. but four more Buckets by Flowers tipped in the rebound to tie ticld and·a perfect C) for 9 from the Dantley gave the Irish a slight the game. foul line. Flowers had a perfect 44-43 halftime edge. Phelps called time out when the scorcacrossthe board. hitting all six 
Bronco star Jeff Tyson took on Irish held and got the ball back, of his ticld goal attempts and his the scoring burden in the second sending his team into the four-cor­one foul shot. He also brought half. hittingthe first eight points of ner offense afterwards. Dantley hit down 11 rebounds. Bill Paterno's the half for Western. Dantley and two foul shots to make it 76-74. and late surge earned him 18 points Duck Williams. who hit several ND got the ball back, but A.D. was while Williams notched 16. Dant­nice driving bank shots. kept pace called for a ten-second violation. ley joined Flowers with 1 1 re­for ND. Midway through the half WMU's Tom Cutter tied it at 76 bounds. but for the first time this the Broncos switched to a zone with a pair of free throws. vear the Irish were beaten off the 
defense to try to stay out of further Williams and Tyson then provided boards. The Broncos came up with foul trouble. A long breakaway by their fireworks. a slim 33-32 rebounding edge. Tyson gave WMU a 70-68lead with "We really got a lot of mileage The loss set the Broncos record 

4:40 remaining. Two minutes later out of our four-corner offense," at 22-2 as they look forward to a Paterno brought ND within two. said Phelps. ·'Our kids executed it crucial conference game at Miami really \veil." (Ohio) on Wednesday. The Irish 
The contest featured some spec­finish the regular season with a tacular shooting by both teams. 22-5 record. They will take this

lnterha/1 basketball powers gain 
The Broncos finished with a .567 week off and await the expected 
percentage from the field. Tyson NCAA tournament bid. due to 
hit 13 of22. and 3 of 3 from the foul come out later this week.

playoff berths as season ends 
by Ray O'Brien The tournament will have two season and grab the tirst round bye 
Women lose to Marquette

winners this year coming from in the playoffs. Steve Dover and .. At the beginning of the season There was a mad scramble for Divison I and II. Division I consists Sal Cosimano led the way with 11 by Eileen O'Grady this team started out as a group of
of the top four teams in each of the Both
playoff spots this week as the and 10 points respectively. individuals and they've finished
first three leagues. Division II has teams came out cold while Cava­Not even the women's basketball
lnterhall Basketball playoffs begin. 
this last game as a team. That's,

eight teams competing from the top naugh I never did get its offense in team could pull off a win from 
how they should be measured."

four teams in Leagues IV and V. gear. Jim Singer scored 10 points Marquette Saturday. as they were
ND swimmers she stated. "From a coaching
for the losers. nudged out by the Warriors 45-41. 
standpoint. who could ask for

Division I Dillon Ill defeated Sorin upping Once again they played a tight 
more.'' she added.
fall to Bradley 

their record to 8-1 for the season. game. both defensively and offen­Fisher I captured League I with a This knocked Cavanaugh I (7-2) sively. but they were unable to 
by Chip Scanlon perfect 7-0 record. They own one down to third place. Dillon II has score the points when they needed Irish track team of the four first round byes in the an excellent chance of obtaining them. playoffs. Morrissey I finished one the fourth playoff spot given to the The first half went in streaks. wins tri-meet 
Notre Dame's varsity swimmers half a game out of first with a 7-1 best second place team. Grace III Notre Dame took an early 6-0 lead 
wrapped up their dual meet sched­record. They have a chance to grabbed their fourth spot while on two outside jumpers by Mary Sophomore sprinter Jim O'Brien ule Friday night as they lost to capture the fourth bye given to the finishing with a 5-4 record. Clemency followed by a break­and freshman phenom Jay Miranda Bradley by a score of 62-51. For second place team with the best away and a score. again by paced the Notre Dame track team r the Irish it was their tenth loss record. Dillon I finished with a 6-2 Division II Clemency. to an impressive triangular triumph against two wins. record and owns the third playoff But Marquette quickly began to over Northern 111inois and Wiscon­
Varsity records were set by spot in League I. Alumni I Alumni II completed a perfect find the basket. They took the lead sin this past weekend at Sterling, Gordon Drake in the 200-yard captured the fourth spot by virtue 9-0 season by posting a win over 10-6. capitalizing on better re­Illinois. The Irish amassed a total breaststroke and by Bob Reilly in of its win over Holy Cross this Off-Campus VII. There are no byes bounding and Notre Dame's poor of 87 points as compared to the 200-yard butterfly but the Irish week. in this tournament. So Alumni will foul shooting percentage. Northern Illinois' total of 63 1/2 and were still not close to the talented In League II Off-Campus Ill face Off-Campus VII tomorrow Bonita Bradshaw entered the Wisconsin which was third with Bradley. Bradley took the first five finished unblemished at the top night. Off-Campus VI 'finished in game for NO and helped them 11 1/2. events: setting three meet records with an 8-0 record. This has earned third place with a 7-3 record. regain their momentum. Carol O'Brien covered the 440 in 50.4 while doing so. them a first round bye. Keenan I Flanner IV. 7-2. finished in second Lally scored succes!i_ively on a seconds and the 600 in 1:12.2. to 

It was freshman Fritz Shadley clobbered St. Ed's I this week to place. Keenan Ill squeezed out a jumper and lay-up. tying the score win both of the events. Meanwhile who put Notre Dame back on the capture sole possession of second big win over Sarin II by a score of at 10-10. The Irish kept this pace Miranda managed to score in a pair winning track as he won the place with a 7-2 record. Grace II 37-35. John Mahoney led the way as thev took the half-time lead, of races. winning the 1,000 yard one-meter diving with 243.85 also ended up 7-2 by way of a win with 17 points. Thompson had 10 21-17.-run and finishing third begind points. also a meet record. The over Pangborn I but had lost to points for the losers. Keenan Ill The second 1-'alf started out in victorious teammate Bill Allmen­next event. the 200-yard butterfly Keenan I earlier in the season. St. will go up against Pangborn II much the same "'ay. Good hustling dinger in the 880. Rounding out was won by Bradley's Tim Harris Ed's I trampled Dillon II by a score tomorrow night. by Bradshaw and Jayne O'Reilly the array of Notre Dame winners But Bob Reilly's second place time of 53-38 to capture the fourth Pangborn II captured first place kept the Irish in the lead for the were football star Luther Bradley in was still an Irish varsity record. playoff spot in League II. As in League V by virtue of Grace V third quarter 25-21. But this was the 60 yard dash with a 6.5. 
Notre Dame captured the remai­always Dave Schlichting and John upset win over Cavanaugh Ill. This the last Notre Dame would enjoy clocking, Jim Reinhart in the mile ning three events on the strength of Dzminski did thebulkof the scoring 46-44 triumphuppedGrace's record such a comfortable lead. at 4:12.2, Tim Kardok who cleared Gordon Drake; Bob Ebel and the with 24 and 16 points respectively. to 8-2. Cavanaugh Ill dropped to In the final seconds the Irish 6'2" in the high jump and pole relay team of Bob Reilly, Pete Dave Faainiunu scored 18 in a 8-2 and third place. Stanford Ill seemed to have a victory in reach vaulter George Matteo with a Kinsella, Bob Wardell and Jim losing cause. St. Ed's I overcame a grabbed the fourth playoff spot by as they brought it to within a one clearance of 14'6". Severyn. Drake swam his best time three point halftime deficit by trouncing Off-Campus VII by a point difference. Maureen Malo­The Fighting Irish return to the of the year in the breaststroke wh outscoring their opponents 34-16 in score of 59-42. Stanford Ill had a ney scored on a rebound making it ACC this Saturday for a home meet ile Ebel set a meet record in the the second half of this all important balanced attack led by Tom 40-39, followed by a lay-up by with Louisville, Loyola and Ken­three meter diving. game. Thompson (12 pts.). and Jim Bradshaw bringing it to 42-41, with tucky State. The meet is schedul­
.. The Jrish take to the road for the Flanner Ill rolled over second McCarron (10 pts.). John Wirth the Irish still behind. ed for 2:30 and will be the final Motor City Invitational in Detroit place Cavanaugh I by a score of poured in 14 points in a losing But Coach Sally Duffy was pleas­home event for Notre Dame this where they will swim Mar. 4-6. 56-42 to complete and undefeated cause. ed with the team • s performance. year. 









