


Crime problems take priority 
Mock Convention backs eight platform planks 

Black Caucus drafts political bills 
by Karl J. Blette Staff Reporter 
The Mock Democratic Conven­tion's Platform Committee accept­ed a plank calling for an "over­haul" of the present criminal justice system and the decriminali­zation of marijuana at its meeting last night. 
The delegates voted to largely uphold the status quo in areas of military spending. national security and campaign reform. 
They later adopted a more liberal stance in voting for the decriminali­zation of mairjuana. the establish­ment of a r.ational health insurance program and the legalization of gambling. 
by Mary Pat Tarpey Senior Staff Reporter 
Chuck Wilson, head of the Black Political Caucus, outlined two bills which will be presented to the platf<irm committee of the mock convention tonight. These bills advoc11te busing and more concen­trated action on minQrity rights and employment. 
The pro-busing ·bill, drafted by Gene Berry, a .member of the caucus.'cites busing as the hope of a quality education for all people in America. "We choose busing as th~ only realistic alternll.live in the ir~plementation of quality educa­tion," he stated. 
The following planks were voted on and passed by the committee: 
Crime Prevention: The most ardently discussed topic at the meeting was that of crime preven­tion. The final plank called for an "overhaul" of the present criminal justice system, an expansion and upgrading of the penal system, an increase in the number of Federal judges to more efficiently handle the number of court cases and Federal medical aid to the victims of violent crimes. It also called for the decriminalization of marijuana, and the removal of obstacles to state legalization of gambling. A minority plank included the legali­zation of prostitution with govern-
equality in education and busing should be upheld and enforced by "whomever should occupy the position of chief executive of the United States." 
According to the minority rights bill. drawn up by Wilson, the caucus is, "mainly concerned with racial and ethnic subgroups which have "been fot'ceably kept in subord­inate psitions in both public and private sectors through oppressivP. policies and practices." 
Wilson said all ethnic and racial subgroups have common problems and the most pressing today are unemployment and underemploy­ment. 
ment regulation. 
After much debate, the commit­
tee voted down a plank which 
would abolish "victimless" by 
legalizing the use of marijuana and 
other drugs, prostitution, gam­
bling and pornography and do 
away with laws against public 
drunkenness, disorderly conduct, 
vagrancy and other so-called 
"nuisance offenses." 
A few of the points were added to 
the majority and minority planks as 
ammendments, however. 
The following planks were voted 
upon and passed by the committee: 
National Defense: Discussion on 
this topic was continued from 
Tuesday night's meeting. 
The committee supported the 
government scrutiny of decisions concerning unemployment made by private firms. 
These two proposals will be submitted to the platform commit­tee for consideration tonight. 
Wilson said he planned to have the completed platform by Friday so the caucus can review and begin to discuss amendments to the platform at the convention. 
Wilson also announced plans to meet with the women's caucus in hopes of combining support for the two group's proposals. 
The caucus has plans to vote on a· Presidential candidate later this week. 
establishment of a civil agency to oversee defense spending and de­fense contracts, the increased re­duction of overseas U.S. military forces. a governmental study with the end of reducing bureaucracy and increase efficiency in the military, a rebuilding and upgrad­ing of the present military, and a reaffirmation.of ourcommittment to the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks (SALT). 
An amendment for the reduc­tion of spending for the mainten­ance and development of nuclear weapons failed to pass. 
Government Secrecy: The com­mittee voted to put an end to unnecessary secret classification of information or classification which serves individual political needs and provided for automatic declas­sification of material after a given period of time. 
A minority plank included de­criminalization of disclosure of classified documents which expose illegal activities. 
Security: The committee expres­sed concern over power abuse by the FBI and CIA and voted to establish a supervisory committee with members from all three branches of the Federal govern­ment. 
The committee would have ac­cess to files in both agencies, and would see that they remain within the guidelines of the law and of their established purposes. 
Seniority: This plank called for abolishment of the seniority system to "decentralize power in Con­gress" and "make committee chairmen more responsive to the ideas of committee members, their colleagues in Congress, and their constituents." 
Campaign Finance: The commit­tee upheld the maintenance of limits on individual and corporate 
campaign contributions and provid­
ed for federal aid to candidates, a 
re-evaluation of the national pri­
mary system and a plan to equalize 
the election chances of incumbents, 
major-party candidates and inde­
pendent party candidates. 
Lobbyist Reform: Stricter lobby laws were called for including the mandatory registration of all lobby­ists and periodic financial reports submitted by lobbyists. These reforms would apply to lobbyists in all branches of government. 
Health Care: Legislation was called for to protect doctors from rising malpractice insurance costs, to establish guidelines for malprac­tice suits, to provide free medical checkups for elementary school children, to subsidize doctors who would practice in free clinics and to establish a form of national health insurance. 
A minority plank would set up a more comprehensive nation health insurance program as well as set up Health Maintenance Organiza­tions (HMO'S), groups of doctors and nurses who would function more effeciently than private prac­titioners. 
Discussion by the Platform Com­mittee will continue tomorrow night and possibly into the week­end, committee assistant chairman Mike Meissner pointed out. 
• Tomorrow night's topics will be school finance, busing. privacy, abortion, family planning and wo­men's and minorities' rights. 
Chairman Rick Littlefield noted the discussion will very likely be quite heated and he urged both delegates and visitors to attend. 
The meeting will begin at 6:30 
p.m. in Room 127 Nieuwland Science Hall, and discussion of the abortion topic will begin promptly1 at 8:30p.m. 
"School financing has been suggested as an alternative. It is a fine goal but it isn't realistic. It's not concrete enough and is too time consuming," Berry added. 
Berry said busing children would result in parental concern on both sides. 
"They would have a legitimate interest in both inner-city schools and suburban schools. B'oth would be irpgraded ··and the hope of a quality education could be actual­ized," he noted. 
The bill also states busing should be conducted only when it is clel'lliCU necessary to attain quality education and racial balance. 
Cites court case 
In stating its position, the caucus cited the 1954 case of Brown v. the Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas. In its decision, the Warren Court stipulated each American has the right to receive a quality education regardless of race. Sev­enteen years later, schools were still segregated .and the quality of education less than adequate, the · bill notes. 
The busing bill holds the decis­ion of the Supreme Court on 
The bill calls for a full employ­ment economy whose interest is in securing a job for every American citizen. Wilson termed this the most important section in 'the bill. 
He noted, "More black people are out of work than whites and the gap is widening. The unemploy­ment rate is near 13.8 per cent for black Americans." 
He further stated 59 per cent of the black youths between 16 and 19 are out of work. 
Requests more workers 

Related to this, the bill asks for more workers in the health care and related areas such as day care, education and low cost housing. ''This is in the interest of expan­sion of federal help to the needy," the bill states. 
The third point mentioned con­cerning minority rights is ''a guaranteed adequate income to all and elimination of waste in such areas as defense spending and tax loopholes. 
Finally~ the bill requests an increase in manpower training programs to provide more manag­erial apprenticeships. It calls for 
Have Your Say 
There will be a "town meeting" of the (including the Observer) gives them credit, University community tonight at seven in then give them the credit they deserve and LaFortune ballroom. Featured at this lambast the ingrates. meeting will be such campus notables as Ifyou believe the faculty are ignored and Fr. Hesburgh, Bro. Just Paczesny, Dean underpaid stick up for their rights. Roemer and Student Body President Ed You who claim that the professors are out Dyrne. The meeting is intended to give to wreck your extra-curricular life (or your students, faculty and administrators a sanity) with petty details like tests and chance to talk about campus problems and papers, come tell them how educational hear what each other have to say. the non-academic side of life can be. 
Those of you who think that the You poobahs who may come under fire Administration is maltreating you, come tonight, show up to defend yourselves. on down and tell Hesburgh, Paczesny and If you know the answers to the 
Roemer what you really think of them. University's problems but find your solu­
Those of you who think that the folks tions ignored, come on down and tell the under the Dome are terrific but maligned, rest of the University at a meeting where come let them know that someone has you have a captive audience. something nice to say. In short, all of you who have gripes, 
If you think that Student Government suggestions, questions, brilliant and witty has been as active as the mummy of comments, compliments, innovative ideas. Rameses n come see if you can wake the pent-up tirades--that is, everyone at this dead. University--come on down, speak out and 
But if believe that Student Govern-hear the speaking. ment has done a solid job for which no one ··The Editorial Board 

r-------­
2 the observer Thursdjty, February 12, 1976 
-----~~-------------~-------­

,_--News Brief--~ 
Thieves romp in Austria 
INNSBRUCK--While 2,500 Austrian policemen are protecting the lnnsbruck Winter Olympic Games, thieves seem to be having a field 
day in other parts of the country. 
During the past 13 days, 11 armed robberies have been reported that have left one policeman dead and a mailman seriously injured. Five arrests have been made. 
But eight other suspects still are being sought, including the killer, who escaped with one million schillings ($55,500) robbed 
from.a(j~nkCampus Today_......,. 
3:30pm-­4 pm-­
4:30pm-­
7 pm-­
8 pm-­
8 pm-­
8 pm-­computer course, "introduction to basic," rm. 115, computer center. 
seminar, "theoretical alchemy: effective 'nuclear transformations' associated with applications to real chemistry," by prof. m. e. schwartz, cont. rm., radiation research bldg., sponsored by radiation laboratory. 
lecture, "predator-prey interactions at the neurophys­ical and behavioral levels, between toads and bombadier beetles," by dr. jeffrey dean, dept. of neurobiology and behavior, cornell univ., rm. 278, galvin center. 
freshman fencing, fencing gym, ace, all invited. 
information session, ·'financial assistance for graduate students," by dr. robert gordon, lib. aud. 
recital, faculty piano recital with dana spencer, little theater, smc. 
film, "sounder," eng. aud., $1, also feb. 13. 

Violinist Gordon to solo with Chamber Orchestra 
by Mary Rathburn Staff Reporter 
Violinist Cora Gordon will be featured soloist with the Mid-West Chamber Orchestra, Feb. 14 at 
8:30 in O'Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary's College. 
Gordon began her violin studies at the age of eight and gave her first solo performance in New York's Town Hall at 11. By the age of 15 she had performed major concertos of Mendelsohn, Bruch, Mozart, and Bach with the East coast orchestras. 
She has performed as soloist with the Marlboro Festival Orches­tra under Pablo Casals and the American Symphony under Leo­pold Stokowski. 
Presently on the music faculty of Long Island's Dowling College, Gordon also directs the New Cham­ber Orchestra of Long Island. 
Her concert tours have taken her most recently to Israel, where she appeared with the Israel Pro Music Orchestra. She is currently plan­ning a tour in Sweden. 
Highlighting Saturday's perfor­mance will be Bach's "Concerto in 
D Minor for Two Violins anc · " · h G d d d
Stnngs, w1t or on an con uc­tor-violinist Seymour Rubenstein. Rubenstein's credits as violinist 
"th
include soloist performances WI 


CIA denies involvement in Angola 
CAMBERLEY, England (AP) ­Questions about where the money came for the ill-starred British mercenary effort in Angola have 
brought  reports  and  denials  of  
Central  Intelligence  Agency  in­ 
volvement.  

Les Aspin, managing director in charge of pay and administration for Security Advisory Services ­SAS -which recruited the mercen­aries, tells newsmen the money comes from the pro-Western Na­tional Front -FNLA. The soldiers were sent to aid that faction in its battle against the Soviet-supported Popular Movement -MPLA in Angola's civil war. 
Night Editor: Tim O'Reiley Assistant Night Editor: Jim 
Stevens 
Layout Staff: Jack D'Aurora, 
Laura Beth Hart, Claire Mc­
CarthY, Barb Breitenstein 
Day Editor: Eileen O'Grady 
Copy Reader: Kathy Mills 
Editorals: Ken Girouard 
Sports: Bill Brink Typists: Terri Harlan, Sue Shellenbarger, Judy Arenson Controlled by the Night: Bob Steinmetz lAd Layout: Pat Russell 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the sumner session, except during the exaiT6 and vaCation periods. The ObServer is published by the Students 
of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St.
1\Aary's College. SUbscriptions may be purd"lased tor $18 ($10 per semester) fro11 The Observer, Box Q, Notre 
Dame, Indiana 46556. Sealnd Class 
postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

the Manhattan Orchestra, City r!:jiiiiiiiiii~
College Symphony, and Tenafly 
and Hudson Symphonies in New Jersey. 
Rubenstein earned a doctorate of music from Columbia University and received conductorial training from JoneI Perlea of the Metropoli­tan Opera and Richard Lert of the American Symphony Orchestra. 
After conducting New Jersey's Hudson Symphony for 12 years, he became conductor of the South Bend Symphony. In the spring of 1975 he took over the direction of the newly-formed Mid-West cham­ber Orchestra. 
Saturday's "Violinist Showcase" will also include Mozart's "Concer­to No. 3 in G" Corelli's "Suite for 

Our 49th Anniversary! 
Special Prices 
thru Feb. 12 ALL SEATS $1.00 


ry V: Two Pieces for Strings," and Bartok's "Roumanian Folk Dan-· 
............................... 

BULLA SHED 
a warm spot on a cold day! JOIN US -meet new people ­especially if you have never come 
This Friday and every Friday Mass -Dinner 5:15 pm 
ces." 

Tickets for the concer are avail­able at St. Mary's box office or at : the door. General admission is $4.50 and student tickets are $2.50. 
• 
• + 
i 
• 

: HOT WINE
. 

• FOOD 
: : 

• MUSIC 
• 

Some newspapers and SAS spokesman John Best say it comes from American sources involving the CIA and the American Em­bassy in London. The U.S. Em­bassy says it has nothing to do with the recruiting of mercenaries. 
John Banks, a 33-year-old ex­paratrooper who recruited for the Angolan operation, said Wednes­day the money has been coming from a man in the northern city of Leeds named Don Belford. 
"In this business, it doesn't pay to ask too many questions," Banks said in an interview here. 
His apartment 35 miles sv-u\tb­west of London served as head­quarters for the SAS until recent developments, including return of SO of the mercenaries and reports that 14 of their comrades were executed after demanding to go home. 

1976-77 STUDENT BODY PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 
Prospective Presidential & SLC Candidates 
Mandatory Organizational Meeting 
TOMORROW 11 pm STUDENT GOV'T OFFICES 
Petitions, Procedures to be explained 



J00 CENTER :
•
2nd ANNUAL + 
•




WINTERFEST i 
•  FRI -SAT -SUN  •  
:  FEB 13, 14, 15  :  
•  10 tillO  • 

t............................t 
•
~ c_~o"t\ : 
~~ 

. 
P't>'~~ v • 

'?F>-v.~~ tt-~"t\" i 
~~~ 

~~ : 
• 



-----"~-----------------" ------" --~~-----­
Thursday, ·February 12, 1976 
the observer
Safety is lacking 



Architect sees present bathrooms dangerous 
AP Newsfeature 
Think "old age" when you plan to build or remodel a bathroom. That way you may reach some conclusions that will benefit every member of the family. 
•'Things that are necessary in the bathroom for the elderly are necessary for all," says Alexander Kira, professor of architecture at Cornell University. "It is just that younger people are more tolerant of inadequacies and are likely to single out necessary things as being geriatric devices or solu­tions." 
Although in the past few years bathrooms have improved, it is still the most single underdeveloped area in the average house, Kira says. 
Burdened with arthritis, eyesight problems, back problems or other physical disabilities, some older persons may find the bathroom ceasing to be a convience . They shun it because it may be unsafe, poorly lighted, unhygienic and a mechanical failure with fancy faucets that are difficult to manip­ulate. In fact, some older people may resort to sponge baths in the kitchen, he said. 

Kira was discussing his book, "The Bathroom," which has been revised and reissued. First pub­lished 10 years ago, it took seven years to write and includes the social and psychological aspects and design criteria for cleansing of the body, as well as other aspects of the subject. 
He contends that every tub or shower should have grab bars at the entry and on the sides so that there is something to hold on to when you step in and out and get up and down... nonslip bottoms can supply or for which decal strips may be used...controls that are opposite the shower head and that are placed at the entry and at standing height. 

"Unless there is an enormous amount of room," Kira says, "the lavatory should be built into a counter with storaJ,::e below and storage above. There you can put cleaning supplies...hot water bot-


Noted actor dies 
LOS ANGELES AP-Lee J. Cobb, a character actor most noted on the stage for "Death of a Salesman," in films for "On the Waterfront" and "The Virginian" in television, died Wednesday, a county coron­er's spokesman said. Cobb was 64. 
A coroner's spokesman said Cobb died at his suburban Wood­land Hills home at 11 :42 a.m. of an apparent heart attack. 
Cobb was a leadtng actor over a long period of American theater, film and television, rising to the heights of his professional career with his 1949 performance in Arthur Miller's "Death of a Sales­man" on the broadway stage. He acted the same role on television in 1968. 
Miller himself declared, "Lee is the greatest dramatic actor I ever tie...cleansing tissues... sanitary supplies. Why should one run tn the kitchen or basement for that stuff? 
"If one is doing a bathroom from scratch, I would not use the typical solution of installing a shower head in the tub. Some elderly persons might want to take a shower sitting down and even some of the one-piece molded plastic units have built-in seats and other built-in features. A hand shower also is extremely helpful. 
The bathroom usually is the first place people go in the morning and the last place they go at night, he points out. I( it is cheerful and it works, it can be a pleasant way to start the day. We should want to bathe and enjoy it. Soaping, lather­ing and scrubbing serve useful massage purposes as well as removing dirt. They can improve 
blood circulation, nourish the skin and help maintain muscle tone. 
Lighting is important to the whole scheme and good light is particularly necessary if one has failing eyesight. Older people may need to adjust contact lenses ­some may have cataracts and need special mirrors. 
The floor should be considered, not only as a matter of safety; it can 
Three Stooges Follies 
6 Classic Shorts Starring IWJe, Larry, Curty A'i. & Sat. Feb. 13th&14th 
7, 9, & 11 p.m Morrissey Hall Olapel 
be made warmer with bath mats. 
And every bathroom should have a 
night light or night switch. 
"People often spend a good deal of money in bath boutiques and what they are doing usually is decorating the bathroom after the builder has left," Kira says. "They buy additional bath racks, mirrors, trays, special holders, whereas many of the necessary items could have been built in. They succeed only in havinga good deal of clutter that doesn't really solve their problems. 
"It is like applying a little adhesive bandage to a bad cut. Real luxury should be something that works. You need a place for your hair blower, water pick, toiletries, and any number of other things necessary to personal com­fort." 
Kira is particularly concerned with the plight of many older persons who live in rent-controlled apartments with antiquated bath­room facilities. Landlords simply won't soend the money to remodel these b~ildings. Sometimes it costs a little more to get the proper fixtures, but such things are not really expensive, he maintains. It is just a matter "of using your wits" when you put the ~athroom pack­age together. 
"You can go to a discount place and buy the whole works -tub, lavatory and toilet for maybe $100, even though you can also spend $600 for a bathtub if you can afford it," Kira remarked. 
Study in Guadalajara, Mexico 
The GUADALAJARA SUMMER SCHOOL, a fully accredited UNI­VERSITY OF P,RJZONA program, will offer July 5-August 13, anthropol­ogy, art, education, folklore, his­tory, political science, language and literature. Tuition and fees, $195; board and room with Mexican family $280. Write to GUADALAJARA SUMMER SCHOOL, Office of Inter­national Programs, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85721. 

SPECIAL 10% DISCOUNT ON AL MERCHANDISE TO NOTRE DAM & ST. MARY'S STUDENTS 
which almost every manufacturer saw." 
.................................................t 



i TO MEETING i 
i LAFORTUNE BALLROOM i 
i Thursday evening at 7pm i 
t PANELISTS : FR. THEODORE HESBURGH, C.S.C. t. 
:•+ 
• ~h
+ ~nO
•( ~ 
: /t-, (()" 
• ~ '-..d
• 0 l&~

i q...~ 
. ~ 
• v 
*• t 
Br. Just Paczesny Dean James Roemer 
Prof. Paul Conway 
Prof. Carol Moore 
•

Prof. Peter Walshe +
: 
• 


Ed Byrne t
. 
: 


Tom Fitzgerald + 
i• 

Diane Merten 
.
• 

MODERATOR MR. PHIL FACCENDA t 
•

................................................, 


..---------~---------­
4 the observer Thursday, February 12, 1976 



Swede attacks nationalism at Winter Olympics 
INNSBRUCK AP-Outside, the beyond her years, surrounded by many people don't have good his edged analysis. idols, pay athletes fortunes of 
12th Winter Olympic Games were coaches, trainers, and officials. houses or enough food. "The West-they are bad, too," kings. Sports are wonderful in 
winding down their carnival of ice She should be playing hopscotch or "Is it so important that you must he continued. "Sports, to them is a their proper framework. But what 
and snow. Inside, a tall Swede with skipping rope with her young win more medals than your political fantasyland. It is like Disneyland. of housing, schools, food, greater 
a flowing yellow mustache sipped friends. Instead, she is a prisoner enemies? What has happened to Sports are an opiate. People wrap opportunities for blacks and the 
from a beer stein at a corner table of a system. She will never know a sport? Why cannot men contend themselves into sports and close impoverished." 
and pondered the worth of it all. childhood.'' against each other in good humor their eyes to all the social evils that He looked at a man's Olympic 
"Medal ceremonies, anthems, The poor man's philosopher from and without bitterness?" confront them. press tag. national aggrandizement--what Scandinavia recalled an American The man took a pencil and drew "They don't want to know about "And you," he added, "you help does it mean," he commented in a report that U.S. athletes were two sharp lines on the tablecloth. injustices. They shut their minds grease the wheels. It is the media solemn tone. "It is like a page disturbed because their bland in­"This is the East," he said. to their poverty, their bias, their which creates these sporting gi­
from pagan Rome. The gladiator formal attire was not as magnifi­"The Soviet Union, East Germany, failure to meet modern problems ants. They are really figments of must spear the lion. The lion must cent as Russia's sumptuous furs. the satellites, Socialist republics. head-on. It is like being on drugs. our imagination. They are unreal devour the Christian. The specta­"Now," he said with a bewilder­Sport is very important to them. It "It is indeed a tragedy. They fantasies. But we made them. tors scream for blood.'' ed shrug, "another great nation is a great propaganda weapon. spend billions for sports, create Now we must live with them." 
The man picked up ;an Austrian measures its magnificence by the The rationale is: If a man can run 
fD111DIIntntiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIUIIHIIUIHIIII.._IIZUMihhllildnlli-mlli..... 
paper and read a small dispatch thread of its hat folly. Are we, after the fastest, throw the fartherst, 
from Moscow: ''The Moscow news­all, peacocks? Or are we sports­skate the best, then he is best 
paper Sovietsky said the Soviet 
men? Isn't it the Bible which says, qualified to cure a people' ills. j THE POSTER PLACE I medal harvest reaffirms the indis­'Pride goeth before a fall'?" "What rubbish. It is actually a E a putable advantages of the socialist J100 11 x17 POSTERS only $10.00 I
The mustachioed Swede reached means of keeping a people under system of physical education." 
across the table for a biscuit and a thumb of the government, building slice of cheese. pride on muscle and speed, still giving them little chance to breathe
Sports and ideology Financial considerations1 free." 

i5 insty-prints I5 
"Look at it," he said. "This big Fantasyland of sports. country stakes its ideology on the "In your country, the president § = 203 N. MAIN ST. a i 
appoints a commission to study ~ ~ • • E
waxing of it skis and the razor-like The big man from the roof of 
blade of its skates. Olympic sports," he continued. Europe was not ready to let the ~ SOUTH BEND 289-6977 ,. § 
"There is a little girl of 12 "Maybe he spends a million dol­western world-Britain, France, Au­wearing the hammer and sickle of lars, maybe less. Yet I read so stria, the United States, and Can­mUIUIIIIIIUIIUIU_UIUWIWWUIUWUIUIIIIIIIIIII--1-IWIAdillllllllll.llli.l the USSR. Already she is aged many men are out of work. So ada, the free democracies-escape 
"LA 


TUESDAY & THURSDAY 
DANCE THIS WEEKEND TO


Marijuana has 'clean bill of health' 
SOUTH SHORE 

. WASHINGTON (AP) --The gov­constituents may eventually have es in asthmatics. MICHIGAN'S TOP ROCK ernment says marijuana still · be some va,lue in treating glaucoma, 
Eventual medical applications NIGHT CLUB!
given a "clean bill of health," but a cancer and asthma patients. 
are likely to use synthetic com­
new. report issued Tuesday con­Marijuana has had a demon­
pounds, however, and some prob­
cludes research is turning up strated value in reducing internal 
lems are anticipated because
,promising new medical uses for the eye pressure in glaucoma patiems, 
chronic use appears to develop a 
drugs. relieving vomiting in cancer pa­
tolerance to marijuana, it said. 
The report said that in some tients undergoing chemotherapy, instances where in alcohol is consi­and dilating pulmonary air passag­dered harmful--such as driving-the same is true of marijuana. .t\nd the Pre-regiSfrafiOn two together may be more harmful than either alone. fee due this week 
The fifth annual "Marijuana and Health" report to Congress said 
All undergraduate students pre­sently enrolled who plan to return
pot sm~king "poses significant to the University for the fall
hazards" for drivers, pilots and semester of 1976 must advancefactory workers if their psycho­register at the Office of Students'motor performances is impaired. 
Accounts, room 102 in the Admini­Research conducted since last stration Building, during the weekyear's report failed to support the of Feb. 9 to 13. Students at this concern that chronic marijuana use time are required to make a $50leads to genetic damage, lower deposit.
fertility rates or more serious The Office of Student Accounts is impotence problems, the report open from 9 to 11:30 a.m. and from said. Results at this time are 1:30 to 4 p.m.
inconchtsive on those points, it Any student who advance regist­said, because studies involved ers after this period will be chargedsmtdl numbers of persons and a $10 late fee. 
would not detect rare adverse 
reactions. 
.------------,
On the plus side, the report said marijuana or some of its chemical 
i'1:~ '9'-"' 
There will be an instructive

Purzycki retires presentation pm,
at 7:30 Wednesday and Thursday,

as postmaster i &94e~ February 11 & 12, in the LaFortune TV Room I Auditorium. Note that 
*
Brother Ramon Purzycki, C.S.C., 

your first chance to attend this
retired as postmaster, Feb. 1, from the Notre Dame Post Office. I 602 N. Michigan seminar has passed. However, the
I
Purzycki has worked there in presentation will be repeated thisI Across From evening.
various capacities for the past 32 
I
years, and he served as postmast­Memorial Hospital
I
er since 1968. He wishes to thank the Notre Dame and St. Mary's communities Call
I 
for their cooperation during his years of service at the Post Office. ~~··The officer-in-charge until a new II 233-2232 . Come and be turned-on to dynamic postmaster is appointed by the rrn Wire Service • 'I layout design. Refreshments will 
___________... 

be served.
U.S. Postal Service is Bro. Thomas 
L
Balaz, C.S.C. 
In Cll effort to arruse Clld abuse we will be publishing every Tues. & Thurs. the "Ubril'y Notes." We will be poking fun at you Clld ourse­lves in Cll effort to bring sorre hurror to this dull, boring, hurrdrum paper. 
Don't niss the Ubray's Valentine specials for lOYer'S ·beer lowrs, that is. Fri. nite nidnight I'TliKiness to help stcrt Valentine's Day, Midn­ight to 12 :30 1 cent beers. Sat. nite from 7-10 25 cent beers. Corre cbMl Clld spend a happy Valentine's 
Day at the Ubril'y. 

I 



-

Thursday, February 12, 197& the observer 




Parents, children in conflict over religious cults 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The battle of the cults has come to Washing­ton. 
On one side are some parents who claim their children have been brainwashed by some of the newly organized religious cults. 
On the other side are some young people who claim their First Amendment right to worship whom they please. 
In separate hotels, the two groups held news conferences to hurl charges and defend them­selves, each claiming to be mis­understood. 
The parents have formed a group called the Individual Freedom Foundation, which is based in Ardmore, Pa., and are appealing to President Ford, Congress and the Justice Department to have the cults investigated. Twenty-five members of the group marched in front of the White House W ednes­day and talked with individual congressmen. 
Hundreds of these controversial, new religious cults have sprung up across the country, but the best known and largest are the Unifica­tion Church of the Rev. Sun Myung 
FDA follows court order 
Red Dye No. 2 banned 
obligation of proving that the colorWASHINGTON (AP) -The Food was safe.
and Drug Administration banned The court action was brought by Red Dye No. 2 effective Thursday the Certified Color Manufacturersafter getting permission from a Association of Washington, anfederal appeals court. 
industry trade group; Warner-Jen­
The artificial dye used in hun­dreds of foods, drugs and cosmet­kinson Co. of St. Louis and H. Kohnstamm & Co. of New York,ics cannot be used in any product unless processing already has both dye manufacturers, and Mon­arch Nugrape Co. of Doraville, Ga., 
started. The U.S. Court of Appeals on 
a soft drink concentrate manufac­Monday had ordered the ban 
turer. 
years. 
Consumers will have a difficult time determining which products contain Red. No. 2, because manu­
THE

facturers must note that artificial coloring was added to a product 
STONE

and are not required to identify the specific color used. 
Red No. 2 is sometimes mixed BUFFALO with other colors to produce shades of brown and purple and may be used to make cake frostings and fish appear whiter. CLOSE-OUT 
The FDA based its ban on an SALE ON agency scientist's report at the end of last year that rats fed the dye 
ALL

had statistically significant more cancerous tumors than those that did not eat it. POTTERY 
Commissioner Alexander Schmidt said while it had not been shown conclusively that Red No. 2 100 CENTER was a weak cancer-causing agent, Moon, the Children of God Sect, 
the Divine Light Mission of the 
Guru Maharaj Ji, which says it's 
not a religion but a way of life, and 
the Hare Krishna movement. 
Some critics have called the 
groups "withdrawal groups," be­cause of their demand for total devotion of converts, many of them in their teens and early 20s. 
Critics have also accused them of 
brainwashing converts, and par­ents have had their children kid­naped from the groups and had them "deprogrammed." 
Some of the groups, such as the Hare Krishna and the Unification Church, are big business, and young, idealistic converts often relinquish their possessions and live in near poverty to hawk flowers, candles and candy for the church. 
"We want to bring to the attention of the nation the horren­dous problem of mind control and brainwashing by these cults," said 
Ben Roeshman, president of the rr========:==================:::::;l newly organized foundation and 
Ed•t • ch • f 
father of a child who joined one ot I 0 r-I n -Ie 
the cults. "We want to educate the ~~~~:~_.?uck victims who get in-The Observer is accepting 
Roeshman, who said he didn't 
applications for the post 
try 



KEN'S DEN 
Art Gallery holds 
--HAIR STYLING -­
two exhibitions MEN & WOMEN 
The Art Gallery will hold a reception for two exhibitions from 
ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER
the Harry Lunn Gallery, Sun., Feb. 15, from 2 to 5 p.m. These (LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA)
exhibitions, currently on display, are titled "The History of Notre PHONE 255-6500 
Dame in Art and Photography," 
APPOINTMENTS PREFERRED
and "Photographs by Walker Ev­
ans." 
Dr. Thomas Schlereth will also 
be honored at the opening for his 
book, The University of Notre 
Dame: A Portrait of Its History and 
Campus. Schlereth will attend the 
reception to autograph his publica· 
tion. 
Hockey tan club 
meeting tonight 
There will be an organizational , meeting for all students wishing to : join the Student Fan Hockey Club ' tonight at 7 p.m. in the 24-hour lounge of Breen-Phillips. All hockey fans are welcome. The purpose of the club will be to promote hockey among the student body. If you •cannot attend the meeting, call 134.7 . for further information. · · want to discuss his child's situa­tion, claims the cults often enc(Jur­age the young people to quit school, get menial jobs to raise money for the group, work long hours and disassociate from the family· 
Once under the influence of the cults, he said, many young people lose all interest and emotional attachment to anyone but those in the cult. 
Roeshman said he has received letters of support from about 200 families across the country. 
One goal of the group, he said, is to have laws passed to protect the public from the cults' influence. But when pressed on what kinds of laws they had in mind, the parents were vague. 
Ted Patrick, a controversial 
"deprogrammer" whom parents have hired to "kidnap" their children from the cults, said there should be laws against "psycholog­ical kidnapping." 
stayed but lifted the stay Wednes­day without explanation. The jud­ges announced they would begin 
Challenge To Be Free of Editor-in-Chief. 
hearing arguments April 15 on the 
M-F 7:30, 9:30
merits of the industry appeal. 
1 
The FDA announced immediate­
S-S 1 :30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 The Observer Editorial Board and Night
ly that the ban would go into effect Thursday and that any products 
Editors will elect the next editor-in-chief 
manufactured with it after that date 
Little Big Man on Tuesday Feb. 17
would be subject to seize or recall. The FDA said it will not require 
F 7:00, 9:45 M-Th 6:30, 9:15 
Interested students may submit resumes
recall of products already prepared 
with the color additive, however, 
S-S 1 :30, 4:15, 7:00 
to Terry Keeney at The Observer office,
and industry sources said those products may be on the market 
U(!ilt~r-t-i()USe t=lix top floor LaFortune Student Center 
place for as long as one or two 

\HE * :•+••••~•••••••••••••••••••••• 

EQUIPMENT -tc -tc RENTAL ~ 
$6.00 DAY ~ $8.00 WEEKEND ~ 
Freeon Wed t 

//~\ 
//·~ ·~·,_,·\'. 
~ I ~~ '
~~' ~~~r 
~\S· ~ 
there was no indication that indus­would be able to meet its 


~=====:::L===~===~ :cATERING 
Patrick is one of the main targets of the young people who claim they have a right to worship as they please, in this case members of the Unification Church, one of the fastest growing of the cults. 
Neil Salonen, 30-year-old presi­dent of the Unification Church, said his members have been • 'victims of unjustified attacks on their relig­ious freedom." 
Patrick's charges of brainwash­ing and mind control are "totally ridiculous," Salonen said. "We're interested in promoting harmony and cooperation of different groups in our society. Communism is the antithesis of our beliefs." 
One of the young men present, 19-year-old Mark Goodman, said he was kidnaped in New York by Patrick last month and has a lawsuit pending. 

"I feel terrible that I have to press charges against my par­ents," Goodman said, "but this must be stopped." 
~SPECIALLY 
~ ~0 THE -tr D·SMC 
~COMMUNITY 
~........................................+••• 
t ++++++++++++..4•~·.. 4••~4 
• : j 

Budweiser® 
• 
d 

·~ ~eagles~ 
t:3

.u tP ~oritt 
100 CENTER COMPLEX 
·~
.Q)

··~ 
any regular ~ OFF priced item with this ad.
~ 

BUSCH® MICHELOB® A&Eagle 
NOW OFFERING 10 G15% DISCOUNTS ON CASES OF WINE/LIQUOR. 
HOURS: 
MON-SAT 
9:30 -MIDNIGHT 
FREE DELIVERY 
(with $15.00 minimum purchase.) 
PHONE: 259·0261 

-~--~ ----~---~­
---~--~--­
Thursday, February 12, 1976 
the observer 

Kelley warns against restrictive FBI guidelines 


WASHINGTON (AP) -FBI Dir­ector Clarence Kelley said Wed­nesday that too much restrictive legislation over the agency's dom­estic intelligence activities may hamper its ability to investigate terrorist groups in the future. 
Kelley, in testimony to a House Judiciary subcommittee, said he endorses FBI guidelines proposed by the Justice Department, but added that restrictions should not go too far. 
"I want to emphasize that these domestic intelligence investiga-
GUATEMALA CITY, Guatemala (AP) -The government said Wed· nesday it plans to have Guate­mala's tourist trade back in full swing in two months, despite the ravages of the earthquake and aftershocks that killed an estimated 17,000 and left one-sixth of the population homeless. 
Guatemala Tourist Institute dir­ector Jose Senn Bonilla told a news conference that most of the centur­ies old Maya ruins are largely undamaged. 
"We are doing everything pos­sible to return to normality," he said. 
Two months of repairs 

He said it would take two months to repair some of the damage, principally to the main hotels in Guatemala City. 
Most of the luxury hotels in the Guatemalan capital of 1-112 million people underwent extensive super­ficial damage, but their structures were not affected and they can easily be repaired, Bonilla said. 
He said a large part of the damage was windowpanes and pipes shattered by the heavy vibrations unleashed by the earth­quake and after-tremors. The smal­ler hotels which cater to the Central American tourist trade suffered much less damage "and practically have not interrupted their serv­ices." 
Crisp swing-like weather and the archaeological remains, some of the foremost in Latin America and renowned worldwide, are the two main tourist attractions of this mountainous Central American nation of six million people. 
An estimated 412,000 tourists visit Guatemala every year, 114,000 of them Americans. The tions are not undertaken for the purpose of collecting information on those who hold unpopular or controversial political views," Kel­ley said. 
''Their focus is on conduct, not ideas -conduct that involves or is likely to involve a violation of federal law," he noted. 
The proposed FBI guidelines prohibit the commission or instiga­tion by the FBI of criminal acts; the dissemination of information for the purpose of holding an individ­ual or group up to scorn, ridicule, 

Guatemala tourist trade to resume despite quake 
State Department estimated there were 5,000 U.S. citizens in the country, counting visitors and resi­dents, when the earthquake hit before dawn Feb. 4 
Tourist trade revenue 
The tourist trade earned Guate­mala $85 million last year, making it this country's largest single source of revenue after coffee which netted approximately $130 million. 
Authorities said the biggest immediate problem for restoring the tourist trade as well as bringing life back to normal is clearing the roads of landslide. Rocks and debris from ountainsides have cut the country's major thoroughfares. 
A 20-man road construction team due in from tourist-conscious Mex­ico, Guatemala's neighbor to the north, is expected to speed up the work. The United States also has expert teams helping open up the roads. 
Spencer to give piano recital 
Dana Spencer, instructor in mu-or disgrace; the dissemination of information anonymously or under false identity; and the incitement of violence. 


Kelley stressed that domestic security cases are undertaken pri­marily to thwart illegal activities, not to prosecute. 
"As a consequence, intelligence work involves the gathering of information, not necessary evi­dence. The purpose is to insure the government has enough informa­tion at its disposal to either frustrate or minimize the conse­quences of the intended harm,'' he said. 
"If we are to accomplish these objectives, the FBI must initiate the investigation in advance of the crime," Kelley declared. 
He said terrorist acts are grow­ing in the United States. In fact, Kelley said, four recently pub­lished issues of the Weather Un­derground's newsletter contained this threat for the Bicentennial: "The rulers have set the time for 

the  party;  let  us  bring the  fire­ 
works."  
In  that  light,  Kelley  asked,  

"what would you have us do about 

STAR Smuck! 
Be a star in your own realm with the most popular fashion accent of the year. Small stars, large stars, pierced stars . . all are stunning complements to your wardrobe . in 14 Karat Gold, Gold Filled and Sterling Silver. 
~.~9.~~§.gCn 
CONVENIENT CREDIT TERMS 
certified germlogists american gem society 

the presence of revolutionary or­ganizations in our society? 
"Should they be totally ignored on the premise that somehow government will receive an ade­quate warning that violence is imminent and will be able to take the necessary measures to prevent the crime or at leas to minimize its consequences?" he said. 
Subcommittee member Rep. Herman Badillo, D-N.Y., an­nounced at the hearin_g he is filing a 
MANICURES for men HAIRCUTS 

House resolution asking for rejec­tion of the proposed FBI guidelines on grounds they are not tough enough. 
Tax seminar 
There will be a seminar tonight for those interested in working on the Tax Assistance Program. The seminar will be held in room 101 of the Law Building at 7:30. Anyone wishing to work on the program should attend at least one session. 

Thurs. & Fri. 8:30 -8:30 
present a piano recital Thursday,

~ ~ ~ M~'s c~F ~~~~~~~~~,~~~~~~~;~~i~i~iii~i~~ii;ii==~=~~~~
February 12. The concert will begin at 8 p.m. in the Little Theatre 

1,v1 nJ:. Uft!VIt:. J-\ V t:,. At'1\H I MI:.N-1-~ 
on the St. Mary's campus. The Program will feature works by Beethoven, Debussy, and Brahms. i NOWLEASINGSf,OR 76-77TERM 
Spencer is a graduate of University of North Carolina .·I ensboro), and earned her Master Music degree at the University of

. : $ AFANTASTICRENTREDUCTION $.
Illinois. She is certified in piano by the Music Teachers National Asso­ciation and is a member of the National Guild of Piano Teachers and the South Bend Piano Teachers • ·NEXT SEPTEMBER'S RENT WILL BE REDUCED FROM 
$300.00/mo. TO $260.00/mo. 
---·--··-··-·­
VALENTINE SPECIAL 
• -THAT'S $65.00/STUDENT AT 4 STUDENTS/ APT. 
SKI WITH YOUR LOVED ONE • ·OR $55.00/STUDENT AT 5 STUDENTS/ APT. -$275.00/mo. 
-ALSO­

SAT. 14th 5 P.M. TILL 9 P.M. 
ALL SECURITY DEPOSITS BEING REDUCED FROM 
COUPLES LIFT TICKETS $8.00 
$100.00/STUDENT TO $50.00/STUDENT 
REGULAR $14.00 
• REMEMBER --THE N.D. AVE. APTS. ARE SOUNDPROOF
LESSONS -$2.00 PER PERSON 
&FIREPROOF
IN GROUP OF 10 -REGULAR $4.00 
• .FOR YOUR SEGVRITY·---ALL APTS. HAVE 'SARGENT' MICHELOB BEER -20~ PER CUP STAINLESS STEEL T AMPRR PROOF LOCK SETS. FOR EVERYONE HAVING A LIFT TICKET • FOR ADDITIONAL SECURITY----NEW 'SARGENT' 
AT DEADBOLTLOCKSAREBEING INSTALLED ONALLAPT.DOORS.
ROYAL VALLEY SKI RESORT 
CALL OR STOP IN--SEEOUR MANAGER IMMEDIATELy
FEATURING 11 RUNS, T-BAR, J-BAR, 
-234-6647-MGR. APT. 820N.D·A VE·-APT.JC­
5 ROPES 
IF NO ANSWER-CALL MR. FAR MER 272-7656
ONLY 15 MILES FROM N.D. MAIN ST BUCHANAN, MI. NOTRE DAME AVE. APARTMENTS 


Thursday, February 12, 1976 
the observer 
7

California's Jerry Brown 
Unorthodox governor wins wide voter support 


SACRAMENTO, Calif. AP-Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. is winning broad public approval in California with an unorthodox politics of pessimism and a rejection of the traditional of governors. 
Brown's message is that things are getting worse every day, and that he can't do much about it. He says he's trying to make people face reality, reject a preoccupation with material possessions and work harder to get less in return. 
His style is described even by 
some friends and supporters as 
abrasive and brusque. Fors call 
him arrogant, calcualting and cold. 
The 37-year-old Democp!"! known 
as Jerry, has scrapped gubernator­
ial protocol, angered state and 
national leaders of his party and 
made himself a symbol of antipoli­
tics, 1975 style. 
He rejected the mansion, limou­sines and executive jet that go with the job. His personal schedule is chaotic. His working hours are long and unpredictable. He makes few promises for speeches or appointments with more than a day's notice. 
But Brown likes to drop in unannounced at public events or in state offices. And telephone calls from the governor at midnight -or even 2 a.m. -arc reported by people involved in issues that catch Brown's personal attention. 
Hrown has stunned the liberals who helped elect him last with a tighter budget than his conserva­tive Republican predecessor, Ron­ald Reagan. And he has annoyed conservatives by giving top state jobs to people they consider ultra­liberal or radical. 
But after just a few months in office, the intense, serious-minded bachelor is enjoying the greatest personal popularity of any CaHfor­nia governor in modern times. 
Several national publications and columnists now are touting him as a dark horse democratic candidate for president in 1976. That's a role Brown says he is not thinking about. Still, he does not reject it either. 
But last November, Brown was elected governor by the narrowest margin in generations-just 2.3 per cent. 
He was front-runner from the day he entered the race, due largely to name identification with his father, Edmund G. "Pat" Brown, who was governor from 1959 through 1966. 
By avoiding controversial stands, Brown lost his commanding lead in ploos. He squeaked through to a I 78,694-vote victory in a state in which Democrats have a 2.1-million voter registration edge. 
But as governor, Brown quickly struck out to make his own mark, different from his father's. 
The father is an amiable, hand­
Valentine's party at Darby's 
There will be a Valentine's Day party tonight at Darby's Place. An invitation is extended to all mem­bers of the University community by dr. Darby O'Gill, proprietor of the Place. 
The party will feature potato chips. candy, soda, punch and, as a special Valentine's Day feature, kisses for all female guests from Fr. Robert Griffin, University Chaplain and O'Gill's official spokesman. The gala affair, in the tradition of O'Gill's legendary soc­ial events, will begin precisely on the stroke of midnight and extend into the wee hours of the morning. 
O'Gill, University Philosopher-in Residence, was recently awarded an honorary degree in Shakespear­ian dialectics from the University of Puddlby-on-the Marsh for his superb article "Was Ophelia Really Mad or Did She Just Like to Skinny-dip by Moonlight?" 

Us means Greyhound. and a lot of your fellow students who are already on to a good thing. You leave when you l1ke. Travel comfortably. Arrive refreshed and on time. You'll save money. too. over the increased air fares. Share the ride with us on weekends. Holidays. Anytime. Go Greyhound. 
GREYHOUND SERVICE 
ONE­ ROUND­ YOU CAN  YOU  
TO CleveliWld  WAY 13.45  TRIP 26.90  LEAVE 10:00 a.m.  ARRIVE 4:20p.m  
Chicago  4.70  9.40  10:20 a.m.  11:15a.m.  
B-le, Pa.  18.45  36.90  7:15a.m.  4:55p.m.  
Cincinnati  18.50  35.10  10:15 a.m.  5:00p.m.  
Buffalo  22.95  45.90  9:40 p.m.  8:40 a.m.  

Ask your aoent about addition;'!! departures and return trips. 
GREYHOUND BUS TERMINAL 210 W. MONROE 287-6541 

GO GREYHOUND 
...and leave the drivinu to us~ 
shaking politician  who  advocated  
.progress,  growth  and  new  pro­ 
grams.  

The son is aloof, disdainful of much of the politics he grew up with. 
The younger Brown says many of the social programs liberals sup­ported in the last decade have failed and should be abandoned. 
"We have got to learn you don't solve a problem just by throwing money at it," he says. 
And maybe some problems can't be solved at all, he adds. 
"Lower your expectations of what government can do for you," Brown said. "Lower your expecta­tions about more of the kind of never-ending acumulation of pos­sessions people have gotten used to. 
"I don'.t offer a great promise of a rosy tomorrow. I think we're going to have to work very hard just to stay where we are. 
As governor, Brown has pur­sued a mix of conservative and liberal goals. 
He joined Democrats in control of the state legislature to enact liberal ]programs which had been stalled in the Reagan years. 
They reduced marijuana penal­ties, repealed laws against homo­sexuals, plugged so-called tax loop­holes for business and extended unemployment benefits to farm workers. 
ND SKICLUB 
ASPEN: MARCH 13-20 INFO: THURS. 7pm LAFORTUNE 
WANTED  
Need GA and student tiCkets for Marque­tte badly. l'lease call Pat 1654.  
Need 6 G.A. West Virginia tickets. Call Tom 3527.  
Desperately need 1-4 G. A. Western Michig.., tickets. Good rroney. call Dan 3526.  
Desperately need one or t'AO G. A. Marquette tickets. call Bob 1214. Need ride to Rllla. this ~.Wekend. Will share driving iW'ld e>q:>enses. Call 6825 after 12.  
Need t'AO West Virginia tickets. /1/iiry 1285.  
Want to buy ­used refrigerator in good CDIIdition. Call 233-8579 after 5 p. m Need 4 G.A. West Virginia tickets. Call Maggie 5408. Need Workers for III'Ock Convention. To print posters-rep! icas of old political buttons.for StepiW'l center walls. Need ~oWrkers from now until March 1. If ~u can help, call Nancy 1365.  
Desperately need Marquete tix,. call Dorothy, 277-1838. Desperately need 1 GA ticket for W.Va. Call /1/iiry 5480.  
WiW'lt to sell my place in Bahamas trip. Asking $45.00. Mike 3363.  
Ride needed to Kalamazoo Feb. 13. Call /1/iiry 5384.  
Need miW'lY WVU tix! Call 233-9841 after 11 p.m.  
Salesmen, part-time-immediately. lnta­ngible sales, cniTTTlissions. Call AIMS, 277-2922.  
Ride needed to Colurrbus, Ohio Febl 13, 283-6954.  
Need t'AO West Virginia basketball tlx. Call Joe 6740. Three girls need ride to lndiiW1apolls, Feb. 20 or 21. Call 4662. Need ride to Penn State Feb. 13. Call .lal, 6859.  

 

cent ot i<eagari's most severeWelfare rights attorneys now run criticism of big government. 

the state health and welfare 
agency. Former Sierra Club offic­
Brown's state budget grew by only 6 per cent compared with anials now run the state resources 

agency. 
average 12.2 per cent annual increase in the Reagan years.

But Brown's top priority was a 
pledge there would be no general He set a dozen legislative goals new tax increase. He also support­for his first year in his inaugual ed and signed legislation for man­address and achieved 11, including datory prison terms. He attacked a landmark farm labor election state bureaucracy in terms rem in is-measure. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~_..~.._,~~ 
I 
tt'RMANDO IS NOW LOCATED NEAR CAMPUSf tTO GIVE YOU THE CUT OR STYLE YOU WANli c:47.mando'1. 8a7.be7. & d/ai7. d)t;i~ SJ;(.)/1 :' 
0PEN SIX DAYS A WEEK 
MONDAY THRU FRIDAY 6 TO 5,30 5ATU"l0AY 6 TO 4 
t PERSONALIZED SERVICE t 
& ARMANDO FEMIA 1437 N. IRONWOOD DR t ' PHONE 277·0615 SOUTH BEND INDIANA 
f FOR APPT. f 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

I NOW SHO~~tt~aris2024..1UZA 
GENE MJNNEIJ.J BURT 
a future you'll probAbly hve to ae•. 

HACKMAN REYNOLDS UJCKY 
,-~.• ; t \ 
lADV 
IPlil 
Weekdays -7:00-9:20 
Sat.Sun.·2 :15-4 :40·7 :10 Sat.Sun.-1 :45-3:45·5:45 


9 :40 (Sorry no passes) 
7:45·10:00 .m. 

SPECIAL MIDNITE SHOWS-FRI & SAT 

FOR SALE 

Feb. 16 NO-Butler Ondpls.) B-Ball tix for sale. Call 3580. 
Nikkormrt FT2 SOmm\f. 1.4 $275; TEAC 360-A cassette deck with Dolby S 170; 234-6535. 
For sale-8 G. A. Marquette tickets. Best offer.;. Greg, Jim 1578. 
FOR RENT 

Summer rental -super rates for houses or rooms. Real dose to carrpus iW'ld fum ish· ed Call 233-2613. 
Rve iW'ld six bedroom houses for rent . for next school year. Excellent condition, dose to carTl>US. Completely furnished. Call 233-2613. 
LOST& FOUND 

Lost: 10 card,No.731226 637. Call 1340. 
Lost: Blue 3-ring binder notebook. Call 288-2618. 
Lost: Aease help me find: 1 miWl'S silver bracelet with inlaid turpquoise. Of great sentimental value. Lost at North Quad party. Reward. ca11 sam 3304. 
R>und: 2 sets of keys -one set in front of Nickle's iWld one key In front of the Bookstore. Call Tom at 234-8952 or 283·7471 iWld identify. 
NOTICES 

Term Paper -Thesis . Letter-A Uttle or a Lot -We CiW1 Help. 
A Complete T"')ing Service 
207 Dixie Way North 
SOuth Bend, Indiana 
277-2922 

Rlsition open . Student lklion Movie OrgiW1izer. Apply to secretary. 2nd floor LaFortune. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrr.. Donoho. 232-0746. 
Morrissey l..ocr! -$20-$150. J.day \Wit. J percent Int. LaFortune, M-F, 11:15­12:15. 
IBM Selectric II typing. Mllnuscrlpts, Dissertations, elCI)erienced . 
-
PERSONALS 
LET YOUR LOVE R.OWERI RoMrlng plants for Valentine's day delivered to their doorstep, on cai11JUS. South Dining Hall, MWFS-6:15. North Dining Hall, TT 5-6:15. 
Hax & Shirley: Happy Valentine's Day to my t'AO fawrite people. Can't wait to see 
~u. 
Got a question about aiCIJhol? Or a problem? Call A!Qgy Barnum. 8809 . AIOJhol Counselor, l.kliveBity lnfimwy. 
MOCK STOCK MARKET -Feb. 2 thru Feb. 27. Old Business Bldg., 10 a.m-3 
p.m Mon. thru Ai. Win $100, $50, S25. Sponsored by N.D. Rnance Club. 
Did ~u see that picture In the O:lgbook? If ~u didn't get a O:lgbook iW'ld \Miuld like one, CDme to Student lkllon. MWF 1·3 p.m. S2. 
Celebrate Abe's birthday! Contact Kathy Farrelly, 8056. 
SOme of our best friends are gay. Gay CoiTlTlJnityof Notre Dame. Hotline: 8870 A-i. iWld Sat. 8·10 p.m Or write P.O. Box 206. 
The Quickie rvns this A-iday night, from the Main Circle. 8:30, 9:00, 9:30, 10:00, 11:00. 12:00. 12:30, 1:00, 1:30, 75 cents for iW1 all-night pass. 
A-iW'l DeMcrlo says: 
Ally A"eshmiWl, SOphorrore, Junior or Senior wishing to continue da1ce lessons may do so . casses every Tues. Eve.. 7:30-9:30.$2 ea. dass. 
To: 
Goobs, Rudy, KII'IO, Mtrcv. Ann, Betsy, Ccrol, Kit, Joan, Mlndie, Renee, Terry, Miry, Katie, Bl!rtl, Marybeth, Jane, Kathy, Sleen, Cindy, Annette, 
Judy, Loretta • .Jo, ~. Sally, Kim. Reesa, Mi!rty, Laura, Claire, Mi!ryfr51, Nancy, Trlsh, Chris. Maureen, Sister .Je5\, Colleen, Reggie, Josle, Michelle. Kath· leen: Be my Valentine? 
W. Skeffington Higgins 
t:le.Y Count' Aease get well. The Countess II\MIIts ~ur !IITival. casey 
Weight Watcher.; of Notre Dllme have II lot of dead ~~~~eight lying around. Meeting every night at 12 mdnight for tree cnunsellng, pasta. Cllll Ml!lrll "B", 6798. 

.. 

·-~---~ . 
the observer 
by Rich Odioso 

Like Lon Chaney in "The Mum­my's Revenge," Bill Paterno re­turned from the netherworld last night and wrecked havoc on an unwary opponent. Digger Phelps took the wraps off the Blond Bomber for his longest playing stint of the season (34 minutes) and Paterno responded with a nearly faultless performance as the Irish entombed Villanova 84-57 in a satisfying, albeit unspectacular, game at the ACC last night. 
"Everyone has some good nights," shrugged Paterno after­ward following his 14 point, four assist and four blocked shot effort. 'Digger kept me in there after the ten minute mark and I really got in the flow of the game. I was really tired near the end but since I was playing well, it got the adren~!in pumping to hang in there. _ 
·'On a couple of the shot blocks I was lucky. They beat me on the baseline and I had to recover. If I'd fouled those guys instead it would be a different story. 
Paterno's picture shot has been in-and-out all season but it shows signs of returning to its once magnificent form after his seven for nine display of last night. 
Paterno played the entire second half at forward, a position he played his first two years at Notre Dame. "I suppose I'd rather play forward but actually I haven't really been playing guard all season but more of a swing position," he explained. "I feel I'm quicker than a lot of forwards. I've really been working on my guard play this year and my ball-handling has improved a lot, although I'm still a long way from Duck and Dice. My quickness in comparison to the Villanova for­wards really helped tonight. 
Phelps praised Paterno's play but didn't indicate whether Apple I would be at forward more in future , games. • 'Whether Billy plays forward depends on the situation," he said. 
On the other hand the Villanova 
zone that opened the door for 
Paterno frustrated Irish All-Amer­
ica Adrian Dantley. A.D. was held 
to only four shots and two points in 
the first half. Dantley recovered to 
score after intermission and finish 
with 18 points, good for team 
honors for the 20th straight time 
this season. 
"They did a good defensive job," Dantley explained afterward. 
"They sagged some on me and 
kept forcing the ball to the left. 
That set up Bill and Duck and they 
came through. As long as we win 
the game it's okay with me." A.D. 
finished S of 13 from the field and 8 
of 9 from the line. 
It was Dantley who pumped in 
eight points in the opening five 
minutes of the second half as the 
Irish pulled away quickly from a 
34-27 score at the half. Paterno 
and Duck Williams then took over 
as the Irish burst to a 20-point lead. 
Two fine passes from Paterno to Dantley foiled a Villanova come­·back bid as the Irish pulled away down the stretch. 
Digger was pleased afterwards 
with the Irish defensive effort 
which limited the Wildcats to 57 
points, the fewest Notre Dame has 

!:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::-::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::;:;:;:;:;:::::;::::: 
Getting psyched for ND hockey 

Pep rallies are, and always have been, an integral part of the Notre 
·Dame mystique. Since the days of Knute Rockne and the Irish emergence as an athletic power to be reckoned with, the traditional Friday night psyche sessions have become as much a part of The Football Weekend as the game itself. More recently, with the arrival of Digger Phelps to the basketball scene and the subsequent rise of Notre Dame roundball prowess, the pep rally's scope has been broadened to include the more pivotal basketball games, a Ia UCLA and Maryland. 
Two weeks ago, Coach Phelps consistently, often vehemently extolled the virtues of the Notre Dame Student Spirit. "you've gotta do it for us ... you've gotta make things happen," he excitedly proclaimed on the eve of the annual UCLA upset. "This is your game," he concluded, and he was right. 
Unfortunately, there is no such hoopla surrounding the crucial hockey games. In fact, many die-hard Irish football and basketball addicts readily admit to never having seen a Notre Dame hockey game. their reasons range from "I just don't like hockey" (having never been to a game, it's hard to figure how they'd know) to "I can't afford it" (student ticket prices are admittedly exorbitant at a buck and a half, or somewhat less than a pitcher of beer at Corby's) to "I've gotta study" (on Friday night?). At any rate, whatever the reason, it is all too easily apparent that the vast majority of students just don't support hockey as they could, or perhaps 1they should. 
Nonetheless, there is ~ause for enthusiasm as this weekend approaches and, for once, it appears as if the long dormant student body is at last taking notice of its icers. Which brings us to the subject at hand--the pep rally. For on Friday night at 7:30, Coach Lefty Smith's crew of hopefuls takes to the ice for the opener of a two game series with the nation's #1 team, the Michigan Tech Huskies. And an hour earlier, outside of Gate 3, the traditional frenzy that precedes basketball and football games will become a part of the hockey scene for the first time ever. Ernie Torriero, Sports Information Department Student Assistant supreme, is the catalyst of this latest innovation in delirium, and Indefatigable Italian promises a good time for all. And, as Lefty is quick to point out, student support is important; even vital. "It really means a lot to the players having their peers there," he says, candidly. 
At present, Notre Dame is in fifth place in the perenially tough WCHA,the nation's #1 colligiate conference, likened by Smith to college basketball's ACC. A look at the standings clearly illustrates his point--from first place (Tech) to sixth (Colorado College) there is a difference of only seven points, I or three and a half games for you baseball fans. There are eight games left in the regular season for the Irish, the upcoming six at home, and Lefty's goal right now is to win five of those next six. 
The task is a mammoth one to say the least, as #2 ranked Michigan State invades the Irish lair next week, but Smith feels that his troops are up to the challenge. In preparation, he took them to Ohio Tuesday night for what might~':! called a "warm-up" against a less highly rated team--#3 ranked Bowling Green. They came home with a S-4 overtime victory and "showed a lot of character," as Lefty puts it, winning despite the absence of three regulars. 
The stage is set, so to speak. Not it remains to be seen if the students will "show their character" tomorrow night. "We'd really appreciate all the help we can get," the coach anxiously concludes in a 
.. Phelpsian appeal for student support. He, like his basketball counterpart, believes in the students as much as his players. It's up to us not to let him down. 

allowed so far this season. "We continued the intensity and pres­sure we showed in the first half into the second," he said. "Our big men had some foul trouble inside but otherwise I was very pleased. We've got to keep working on defense." 
"We're a little tired," he contin­ued. "We need a break. We're going to take off tomorrow. We've been preparing for games for two straight weeks. We will come back strong on Friday to prepare for West Virginia." 
The Irish broke to an early lead using balanced scoring to move in front 25-12. Notre Dame was lethargic for the next couple of minutes allowing the Wildcats, behind Reggie Robinson, to close to 28-25 with two minutes remain­ing. Dantley returned to the lineup at that point and Notre Dame outscored Villanova 6-2 the rest of the half to take the seven point halftime lead. 
Villanove quickly fell out of the game early in the second half but Phelps sounded a word about the Wildcats. "That was a fine young team. They are a lot better with Larry Herron in the lineup." Herron, Villanova's second leading scorer, missed the contest with a sprained wrist. "We play them next year in Philadelphia and it will be a lot tougher," asserted Phelps. 
IRISH ITEMS ­
Notre Dame won the battle of the boards for the 20th straight ti~e 40-26. Dantley 
topped the Irish with seven caroms ... Toby Knight fouled out after playing 13 minutes ... Notre Dame finished dwith 33 of 60 from the floor for .SSO ... Keith Herron topped the Wildcats with 19 points while Reggie Robinson added 16... The Irish conclude the four game homestand Saturday at 1 P.M., hosting West Virginia ... Notre Dame is now 16-4 while Villanova goes to 13-6. 

Irish track team on road again 
For the third week in a row, the Notre Dame track team takes to the road as they travel to West Lafayette Friday for the Indiana Big State Meet. Slated to get underway at 6:00 p.m., the meet will feature Indiana, Indiana State, Purdue and Ball State along with the Irish. 
This past weekend, Notre Dame coach Joe Piane and his thinclads journeyed to East Lansing for the Michigan State Relays. A number of Irish competitors left their mark among the field which included some of the best in the midwest. Jay Miranda, a standout freshman middle-distance runner, placed third in the 1,000-yard run. His time of 2:13 was only two-tenths of a second off the winning time. The 

ND wrestlers lose,' to W. Michigan 
The Notre Dame wrestling team was defeated yesterday by Mid­American Conference rival West­ern Michigan. The Broncos tallied seven decisions, one of them a five-point superior decision, in registering their 25-11 victory. 
For the Irish, only Pat McKillen at 150 and Bob Golic at heavy­weight were winners by of a decision and pin respectively. McKillen's win raises his record to 13-3-1 on the season, while Golic remains unbeaten in nine matches. 
Joe Pszeracki was responsible for the other Irish points, as he and his Western Michigan opponent battled to a draw. 
The Irish, now 4-13 in dual meets, will be on the road this weekend as they will travel to 

Illinois  State  University  for  a  
tri-meet ·with  Illinois  State  and  
Indiana  State  Universities.  The  

Irish will be in action at home, next Wednesday, February 18th, when National Catholic Champion John Carroll University comes to the 

A.C.C. in a 7:30 p.m. start. 
distance medley quartet of Bill Allmendinger led off the race for the Irish, running the hals-mile in the excellent time of 1:54.5. Anoth­er victory for Notre Dame came in their heat of the mile relay which they won in a time of 3:24.4. Members of the medley crew were Chris Haines, Jim O'Brien, Chuck Wills and Joe Nicholson. 
Saturday's meet will also present a strong contingent of athletes including Rich Hyatt of Indiana in the 1,000-yard run and teammate Steve Heidenreich a sub-four­minute miler. Notre Dame's prosp­ects for victory have been bolstered by the return of distance man Dennis Vanderkraats and shot thrower Mike Meyer. 

On Saturday, a two-mile relay team of Miranda, Allmendinger, Yates and Reinhart will travel to Cleveland for the Knights of Colu­mbus meet. 
MICHIANA TAX SERVICE 
gets you more $$! We. 
do out of state returns 684-6063 or 289-5193 
~·For ND Stuqents~. Faculty & Staff~*10 percent. discount with I D & ·* ~ pul51cnase of $ 10 or more. * *~*~~wwww~~~~**~*******l 
8 mi. N. of State Line Take 3 J to Niles then North on 5 J, 3 miles. 683-9842 









