
The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XI, No. 21 Wednesday, September 29, 1976 
Scholastic faces budget cut 
Notre Damealumni contributions rise 
by Mike Towle Staff Reporter 

University of Notre Dame alumni contributed more than $3 million to the University in fiscal year 1976, 
. according to a report released by Notre Dame's Public Relations and Development Office. This total ranks as the third highest in the history of the University. Compared to other major schools across the nation, Notre Dame conststently ranks among the top in alumni contributions. Richard Conklin. director of the department of information services at Notre · Dame reiterates this fact. "In past years, the percentage of solicitable alumni giving money usually ranks quite high among 
The number of contributing alumni in 1976 constitutes about SO percent of all solicitable alumni according to Conklin. He added. "In determining this percentage. only solicitable alumni are counted which leaves out unreachable alumni and those who are religion affiliated. All schools do this in arriving at their final percent· ages." 
Notre Dame also receive~ sub­stantial contributions from non· alumni. In fiscal vcar 1976. this total was $5.1 million. an increase of almost $1 million over the previous year. Likcwbc. Notre Dame places high among schoob receiving such contribution'>. 
"In 1974-75. Notre Dame wa., third behiTid Harvard and Yale in 
by Marian Vlicny battle when you're independent." According to Phelan, other schools," he stated. the amount of moncv rccci\·cd from Staff Reporter he noted. "I could see tremendous Scholastic's purpose is to provide "During the 1974-75 academic non-alumni. "Con.klin added. 

benefits from going weekly. If we "a medium to investigate, explore year, Notre Dame was ahead of all "This total include., gift~ from could talk the University into and comment on subject matter other Catholic schools and even corporations. alumni family foun­Because of a budget cut by the subsidizing us as a weekly, it'd be relevant to the student-body in­ranked third among major inde­dations. other individuals. parent~
University, Scholastic. the Notre 

marvelous." depth.·· pendent universities behind Van­and deferred payments.··Dame student-operated features 
To publish Scholastic on a weekly Phelan presently finds no reader derbilt and Dartmouth. We won't Conklin explained that deferred magazine, reduced its size in order basis. the University would have to competition between Scholastic know what our standing for this payments include wills. bcqucsh to maintain a bi-weekly publication increase the pres~nt budget by and The Observer. commenting, "I year is until a nationwide report is and life income trusts among othn status. 
approximately 80 percent, Phelan think The Observer's function is to released next spring." things.
According to the editor. John estimated. He added. "I don't report news, editorialize and carry During the 12-month period Of all the states. lllinois had the 

neces­

Phelan. the reduction was know if the University will give us a little opinion. The focus is which ended June 30 of this year. most contributing alumni (2. 980) sary because all money was re­that. I don't know if it exists. I'd entirely different in a features sort 17.813 alumni contributed a sum of and non-alumni (3.953). Their 
moved from the printing division of be skeptical that we-could talk the of magazine.·· $3,023.424. This total represents alumni put in a total of $709.278. 

the budget. "We were faced with University into it now. I don't know Phelan further explained, an increase of $215.000 over last The Notre Dame Class of 1975 the choice of whether to print 27 that they have that much faith in "Magazines tend to gtve greater year but runs behind the amount of led all other alumni classed with 70 pages of copy nine times a year or 

the viability of the public accep­depth at a variety of angles which money collected in 1972-73 and percent of their members gi\·ing . whether we wanted to keep the tance of the magazine." [continued to page 4] 1973-74. contributions. 
, bi-weekly status." stated Phelan. 
"We felt frequency of publica­tion was more important than length." Phelan added, stressing 

Waste disposal,laundry discussed by HPC 
the need of Scholastic to be readily visible. 

Like WSND and other Univer­Soma characterized Ryan as sity-subsidized organizations, "stubborn... and added that stu­Scholastic must turn in its revenues dent government often encounters to the University general fund. this difficultv in their work. He According to Phelan. this money is expressed confidence that Ryan not enough to replace the subsidy. would "at least listen if we come up ''The revenue we receive from with a proposal." adverti.,ing would in no way cover Breen-Phillips President Nanc~ the' cost of printing." he stated. Siegler noted the delays in laundry 
Scholastic's advertising would deliveries had forced some males to have to be greatly expanded in use the washers in the women's order to support itself. Phelan halls. "It causes a lot of wear and estimated that the ads could in­tear on the machines.·· she re­crease I 00 percent if the magazine marked. came.. out on a weekly basis. This Mark Eck. president of Flanner would be due to weekend specials Hall. reported that a delegation and activities. from his hall had met with laundrv 
·'The irregularity of the maga­officials to discuss the possibility ~f zine hinders the advertising. The installing machines in Flanner. He ads are not verv time-oriented and indicated the group was told that tend to be very general." Phelan plumbing costs and the welfare of noted. the laundry employees that would 
In addition to ad expansion, be laid off would make such a move changes to a weekly size and a impossible. press would be necessary for 
Dining hall waste self-support. "It'd take a lot of work. and it 
Soma turned to the question of could be done, Phelan stressed. 
dining hall waste disposal. and said "But it would take a year or two of that he sought to "present the
byTomByme closed that proposals are being "back to normal" bv this week.preparation. This would create Senior Staff Reporter drafted to resolve both problems. human side" of the situation. He 
difficulties because editors are Student Governn-ient is consid­
commented that a meeting with usually not in position for longer Soma told the council that Bro. ering developing alternatives to the Food Services Director Ed Price than one year." Student Government Special Kiernan Ryan, asst. vice-president campus laundry, according to had proven unprodu.:tivc. and 
Phelan added, however, that Projects Coordinator Tom Soma for Business Affairs, had attributed Soma. "We're working on it, but asserted that the Observer had 
there is no great need to break with discussed the campus laundry and · the delays in services to "guys nothing definite," he said. given inadequate coverage to his the University. "I don't know that the Brown-Price waste disposal turning in laundry without name "Hopefully we'll have a present­point of view in Tuesday's paper.it makes any sense for Scholastic to controversy with the Hall Presi­tags.'' He added that Ryan had able proposal for the Student Body "There's something wrong with 
Stop 
go independent. It's more of a dents Council last night and dis-assured him that service would be Congress." throwing away good fnlld." he declared. expressing hi~ belief that pig farmer George Brown should
Farley imposes fine to 
be allowed to continue to collect dining hall garbage that would be otherwide unused. "We think we

male laundry machine use 
can come up with a compromiseby Jack D. Silhavy She added that one male put a proposal." he added. 
Staff Reporter pair of jeans in with her load after 
HPC Chairman J. P. Russell the machine had started, and did 
commented later that any possibleMale students using laundry not restart the machine. The council resolution in support of machines in women's dorms may money she had put in was lost and 
Brown might be "feasible... but soon have to pay more than 35 her clothes were pretty "soggy." 
would have to wait until all the 
cents to do their wash. "It's been a lot worse this year facts can be gathered. '.'I'd rather Hall presidents and residents than 'it has been," said Tracy Kee. 
see the problem's circumstance.,
expressed sympathy for the men's Farley Hall President. Blaming defined more clearly before takingpositions, and the laundry prob­delays in the University Laundry any action." he said. 
lems, but said that something must Service, Kee said that men are be done to insure that only women needing to resort to other ways to Halls to receive money 
use the machines. get their wash done. Following Farley's example, at "We need more machines to 
HP.C Exenltive Coordinator 

least two other women's dorms are service the girls," stated a Farley Keefe Montgomery presented the considering imposing a $5.00 fine resident, "let alone guys. If we procedures for determining how on men caught using laundry had more, it would be one thing," much of the $12,800 the HPC machines. Lewis Hall has already but she added that if the situation received at Sunday's Student Gov­declared that they would enforce stays the same the men should be ernment budget hearings would be 
the fine, and Breen-Phillips may do kept out. 
allotted to each hall. Of that 
so if nothing else works. Breen-Phillips President Nancy amount, $4,500 has been desig­"The big thing is waiting," Siegler agreed that men have a real nated for An Tostal. 
noted one Farley resident. "It's a problem with laundry. She said, ''The procedures are prettylot of hassle and the guys can be however, they should be kept out of much the same as last vear,'' he 
really rude.'' 

[continued to page 41 [continued to page 3] 





2 ___:t:...:.h.:..:e~o=b:..=s:...:e::..:r:....v:...e=--=-r___w_e_d_ne_s_da-'y_,_Se_;p_t_em_be_r_29_,_1_976 
,..---News Briefs--...... 
·~====================International 
Offensive launched 
BEIRUT; Lebanon -Syrian forces launched an offensive against Palestinian guerrilla and leftist lebanese positions east of Beirut. and Damascus radio claimed early today they had cleared all Palestinian­leftist clements from the country's Christian enclave. The drive brought statements of anger and alarm from Egypt and from factions supporting the Moslem-leftist 
,.;rJ,. in the civil war. 


Flu shots begin Friday 
ATLANTA-The nationwide swine flu immunization program gets underway Friday in three cities after more than a month's delay caused by vaccine production problems and demands by manufacturers for protections from potential lawsuits over sideeffects. A National Center for Disease Control spokesman said ye~tcrday swine flu shots will be administered to senior citizens Friday in Pontiac, Mich .. at a "health fair" in Indianapolis ·and by the city health department in Philadelphia. 

Nessen clams up 
WASHINGTON -President Ford· s pre~s secretary refused yesterday to reply to qucstio'ns about whether Ford. while a congressman, ever converted campaign funds to his personal usc, saying that no charge has been made and he does not have to answer. 
L-On Campus Toda~}----.. 
4:30 --seminar, "similarities between suppressor cells in akr leukemia and in newborn mice" by dr. e.s. golub, dept. of biological sciences, purdue univ. n.d. galvin aud. coffee at 4:15. 
5:15 --mass, all wednesday "fasters" are invited. sacred heart church. 
6:30 --meeting, sailing club, rm. 303 engineering aud. 
7:00 
--meeting, n.d. and smc world hunger coalition. "bread fer the world" filmstrip to be shown. all invited to attend. library lounge. 

7:00 
--meeting, aiesec, Iafortune ballroom. 


7:30 --reading, poetry reading by prof. ernest sandeen, library aud. 
-·:30 &--film, "meet me in st. louis". engineering aud. tickets 10:00 $1. 
8:30 --lecture, "american youth sails and institutions", Iafortune amphitheatre. 




Senior Bar atmosphere will be diversified 
by Jim Hersuey 
Staff Reporter 
To diversify the atmosphere of the Senior Bar, a house south of the football stadium, the management has initiated a plan to develop a coffee house in the area of the dancing floor. 
Rich Johnson, assistant manager oi' theSenior Bar, said "One thing we felt we were lacking was campus talent ... lt (the coffee house) would be like the Nazz, but it would not take any­thing away from the Nazz." He said that they have plans for comedy entertainment as well as musical entertainment. 
Johnson also said, "We want to give the bar a different atmosphere on different nights. Last year it was the same every night. People basically came to drink and listen to loud music. 

He explained, "It's supposed to be a club, and every club that I've ever been in tries to alter its programs." He emphasized that they want the Senior Bar to be more than a bar. 
Included in this plan is a food sales room adjacent to the dance floor, live entertainment and the possibility of showing short films in the dancing room. 
The food sales operation, which is worked by Deb Mather and Kathy McGah, is a private business not affiliated with the bar. It opened last Friday night. Present­ly, they are selling sandwiches, hot pretzels and other items. They will probably start selling pizzas after the football season. 
Johnson said that, with the live entertainment, the coffee house will have a real bar atmosphere on Wednesday and Friday nights. On Thursday and Saturday nights, the pace will be slower. 
Johnson mentioned that, if the response to this article is favorable, live entertainment will start as soon as possible. 
rooms on campus. 
While waiting for their numbers to come up on the waiting list, the girls were assigned to Farley by the Housing Office. According to Kit Baron, Farley Hotel proprietress, and lately the basement R.A., "The girls have shown good spirit. lhey're trying to make the best of things here." 
Sophomore transfer student, Ann Buzald, noting that although the rooms are very cluttered, added, "I'm just happy to be on 
campus.  At  least  I'm  meeting  
more  people  and  making  some  
friends.''  

Another problem which has ari­sen is the decreased capacity of Farley Motel. "Normally we can accomodate 36 visitors, but right 

Jimmy blasts Ford's policies 
by Gregg B. Bangs Political Staff Editor 
Charging that President Ford's economic policies have placed a record 2.5 million Americans below the official poverty line last year, Democratic Presidential nominee Jummy Carter said the Republican administration has helped create a new class of poor for whom the American dream has been denied 
While speaking to a crowd of 8,000 at Portland Harbor, Carter said most Americans were "born to hope for a better life, trained for self-sufficiency and confident in the American dream.'' 
"But eight years of unemploy­ment and inflation have cancelled the promise, destroyed the self­sufficiency and denied the dream." 
According to a September 27 Associated Press report, Carter, while campaigning in Portland, Oregon, vowed he would never raise taxes on Americans who work for a living, or whose major source of income comes from salaries, instead of capital gains, interest and dividends. 
In several speeches made in Portland, Carter charged most tax loopholes benefit those who have an income above $50,000 and do nothing for the middle class wor­ker. Although he did not directly 
FAST 
TYPEWRITER 
REPAIR 



·ROCCO'.S 
BARBERS & HAIRSTYLIST.S 0 FULL SERVICE ~ 
~QN"EXSHOP~ 
~0 
,.?, "~ ~t!·~o 
...?~"'\.0~ ;zS:a~~ 
.?,9p 'Co~. , ::;) flj ~ 0 .t.> ~ ~., ...J m


\$'"' w 
...J ~ 
-IL::;) <' 


say so, he indicated that the $50,000 and above income level would feel the greatest impact of his tax revision programs. 
Carter also told a crowd in front of the Federal Building Plaza in Portland that the "bloated mess" in Washington could be rectified only by an outsider. 
According to a Charles Mohr story that appeared in the Septem­ber 27 New York Times, Carter was "apparently trying to exploit re­ports that President Ford had received hospitality from a lobby­ist." 
Carter said change could not be expected from a "leadership that has been bogged down in Washing­ton for the last 25 or 30 years, deriving their advice, their counsel, their financing support from lobby­ists and from special interests." 
''They go to the same restaur­
ants," he continued "they belong to the same clubs, they play golf on the same golf courses, they com­municate with one another, they support one another in the absence of participation, understanding and control by the people ourselves.'' 
The article infers that Carter was referring to reports that William Whyte, a United States Steel corporation lobbyist. had confirm­ed that he had footed the bill for several golfing weekends for Ford when the President was a United States Congressman. Whyte also said he still has a "golfing friend­ship" with Ford. 
However, Carter has supposedly not made any mention of other reports that the Watergate special prosecutor's office was investigat­ing campaign contributions made to the President between 1964 and 1974. 
Saturday and Sunday, Oct. 2 and 3, at the Michiana Regional Airport, South Bend, Ind. Gates open at 9 a.m. Show begins at 1 p.m. 
Static display of more than 100 antique, classic and home-built aircraft. A flying bug's paradise 
More than 4 hours of high-speed thrills by the masters of the skies, the world champions of aerobatics. These are the top pros. 

The RED DEVILS, world championship aerials acrobatics team performing unbelievable, spine-chilling maneuvers. One of the most exciting formation acrobatic routines witnessed in eyars. 
U.S. Army's GOLDEN KNIGHTS* Currently holders of 8 of 10 
world parachuting accuracy records. Free falls and formations from . up to 13,000 feet at speeds of nearing 200 m.p.h. 
The fabulous J A YHAWKS --world's first civilian jet acrobatic team flying intricate maneuvers in their miniature jets at more than 300 
m.p.h. Straight aup at 2,400 feet per minute. 
56 WARBIRDS of AMERICA, the greatest collection of World War II fighting planes, in a live presentation of "Tora, Tora, Tora" ---a spine-tingling recreation of the attack on Pearl llarbor. ~he Warbirds, flying B-25s, P-51s, P-38s, P-40s, Bearcats, Corsair~, Wildcat dive bombers, T-28s, Chipmonks, Au6s and T-28s, also wtll fly military formations. Flying with them will be hte only Janpanese z.~ro now in the u.s. 
U.S. Army's SILVER EAGLES show the versatility of helicopters in intricate, beautiful formation maneuvers that testify to a pilot's ability and training. Syncopation in the skies in small observation copters. Also, Bozo the Clown copter adding some interesting antics. 
JOE HUGHES and his daring wing walker. An act right out of the 30s with a crack acrobatic pilot and an expert gymnast in daring acts--the only true wing-walk act in the world today. 
JIM LEAHY performing intricate solo patterns. A beautiful exhibition fo flying expertise in an ancient aircraft. 
And Many more, including low-level fly-bys of some of the world's fastest military jets. You'll have to be at the show to see and comprehend hte supersonic speeds they'll be traveling. 
You have to be there to see and hear all the action. 
tickets: Adults $3 at gate: $2.50 in advance. Children 6-12, $1.50 at gate: $1.00 advance sale. Refreshments on grounds. 
Parking: Problems of 1975 worked out. Twice as much parking space with shuttle buses to make getting in and out easier, but the earlybirds will get the best spots and enjoy the most. 
All proceeds to the Indiana Speical Olympics and 
recreation. . 
P~oduced by Michiana Air Salute, ,Inc: A civic Project of the Spo~s­
liner, Inc., Michiana Regional Airport, South Bend, ~nd., a flytng 
travel club devote3 to fun for its members and those ktds who need 
our help. 
8 
-


~·\ ·~
p. 
Adrian Dantley visited the Notre Dame campus two weeks ago for the Purdue game. 

HPC examines hall 
[continued from page 1] 

records by past councils. explained. "We hope to. get it out "We hope to pick up on what of the way early this year.'' was worked on last year and follow 
Each hall will make its request through on that. Our biggest role for money on Oct. 10. along with a is to provide a forum for feedback statement of purpose and financial from the halls. and channel prob­records of the hall. Several lems to the appropriate authority. presidents complained that there "I don't think it's our role to was insufficient time to draw up an research things like laundry prob-accurate estimate of what they [Photo by joe Burnsl 

budgets 
!ems, .. he continued, "though we 
will if necessary.'' 
Russell expressed hope that the Student Body Congress would help campus organizations "to find out who's doing what," in order to 'relieve duplication of effort that hampers student government 
organizations. 
would need. but Russell stressed the importance of the time factor, 
Conrad wages campaign
recalling that last year's hall funds were not distributed until Decem· Democratic gubernatorial candi­ber. date Larry A. Conrad, whose 
"No one"s going to be fully campaign has been forced to cut satisfied," said Montgomery, "but back on television advertising we'll try to disperse it out equally." because of money shortages, Tues-
He added that money allocated to day said Hoosier voters "arep't the halls that fails tQ be used will be being fooled by slick commercials redistributed in the spring, or used Jacking in substance." for An Tostal. The reference was to Gov. Otis 
Russell explained that $755 in R. Bowen's well-fmanced televis­unused funds last year "looked bad ion advertising campaign. Last at the budget hearings.'' He added weekend, The Associated Press that the new budget procedure reported that Bown would spend would try to force the halls "to another $500,000 on electronic justify t~at they're going to use the advertising by election day. money. "This is a campaign of issues-
In addition to the budget com-not a contest of charisma,'' Conrad mittee report, the Rockne Trophy said, adding that voters "are not for the month of April was pre-looking for a glossed over picture of sented to Holy Cross. The award is how good life .is in Indiana.'· given to the hall sponsoring the "Despite the massive spending most activities each month. Farley of hundred of thousands of dollars was also acknowledged for "Little by Republicans on the part of the Sister" weekend. Bowen campaign for television and 
Russell commented after the radio commercials, our following meeting that he was encouraged by around the state is holding strong the operation of the HPC so far this and the gap is closing fast,'' the year. Democratic challenger said. 
"1 think we're well organized Conrad offered no figures to and running smoothly," he re-support his claims. 
marked. "Just the fact that we're Bowen was in Carbondale on of Israeli business concerns. 

doing what we've done efficiently .lllllllll•ll•ll••••••••••••••••••••••llllll.
is good." He stated that he "had 
been putting together a puzzle since April." due to the lack of 
Wooden to spea about youth jail 
by Peggy Schumaker Staff Reporter 

Author Kenneth Wooden will speak in the La Fortune Amphi­theater at 8:30 on Wednesday. September 29. Sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commis­sion, Wooden will speak on the corruption of American Youth Jails and Institutions. 
Wooden is the investigative author of Weeping in the Playtime of Others, a book concerning the evils of lost, neglected and abused children. 
Wooden, 39, has lead a multi­career life from a semi-literate laborer to a national consultant. He has recently worked as writer-
advisor for political campaigns and for public and commercial TV. His investigative work has lead to a number of national investigations. As a member of the National Coalition of Children's Justice, Wooden is extremely interested in stirring concern for the imprisoned youth of America. 
Tuesday for the dedication of U.S. 
41. The governor said the state's transportation system has a major impact on the state's economy and the quality of life of its people. 
Bowen also said an attempt is being made to bring a major natural gas pipeline from the arctic slope to the Midwest. He w'as referring to a pipeline that would run through Canada, but c;l_id not say how far the 'plans have been developed, nor what it would cost. 
"Many people tend to· ignore pipelines as transportation arter­ies, but they are no less vital to our economy than other modes," Bowen said. "The trans-Canada pipeline would bring vast qualities of natural gas. our premium in­dustrial and agricultural fuel." 
In the senate race Sen. Vance J-fartke issued a statement saying 
•'the latest blackmail threat by the Arab nations marks a new low in international anti-Semitism.'' Hartke said he was responding to reports that Saudi Arabia is putting pressure on the U.S. State Depart­ment not to interfere with a boycott 





SENIORS 
LAST CHANCE 
TO SIGN-UP FOR THE CALIFORNIA TRIP 2ND FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE&l68 LEMANS WED & THURS 1-3PM There still are limited openings and the. first 30 people on the waiting list 
are expected to be able to go!!! 
JUNIORS 
ARE NOW ABLE TO SIGN-UP FOR THE WAITING LIST 
Wednesday, September 29, 1976 the observer 
National debates viewed, discussed 
A discussion with refreshmentsby Teresa Cosiano was held directly following theStaff Reporter 
debates. The first question dis­cussed was on who really won theLast Thursday night at St. 
debate. The majority of the people Mary's, the Presidential debates in Carroll Hall felt that it wasn't awere viewed by an audience of over 
300 students and faculty members debate situation; after one candi­in Carroll Hall. Four television 
date responded, there was no ·chance for a rebuttal. Many feltmonitors were placed at certain points around the room. According that this would have made a much more interesting situation. It wasto Kathy Coyne, vice president for also found that Ford produced aacademic affairs at St. Mary's and more favorable impression.
organizer for the viewing of the debates, "It was 100 percent One person stated that the successful. The turnout was phe­candidates' appearance was the 
nomenal and everyone was 
least important thing in his mind. 
pleased." 
He would vote entirely on the issues at hand.
To determine the amount of influence the. debates had on the Kathy McNally, a senior at St. crowd, a survey was takerl. A vote Mary's, thought it was better to was cast by each individual before watch the debates with a big group. the debates actually began. Ap­"You got the added effect of the proximately SO percent were for responses from the crowd instead Ford, 25 percent in favor of Carter of just your own opinion." and the remaining 25 percent 
Because of the success of thisundecided. By the end of the night, viewing session, the debate sche­more people changed their mind in duled for October 6th will also befavor of Ford and less people were shown in Carroll Hall.
undecided. 
From CBS news 


Schorr resigns 
NEW YORK (AP) -Daniel Schorr. who weathered a con­gressional hearing about a leak of secret information, resigned Tues­day as a CBS news correspondent. He had been with the network for 23 years. 
Under suspension with pay since last February, Schorr said in a letter to CBS News President Richard Salant that remaining with the network might prove "a source of tension within the organiza­tion." 
Schorr said in an interview in 
Washington that his immediate 
plans were to accept a short-term 
professorship at a large university 
which he would not name and to 
begin thinking about writing a 
book. 
In accepting the resignation, 
Salant wished Schorr happiness in 
the future and added, "You will 
hereafter, of course, be fully free to 
pursue whatever line of endeavor 
you may choose--including full time 
employment on another network.'' 


Tom cMahon 
General Aqenl 



John Wahman 
Agent 



Karen· Wentland 
Agent 

'\ 


Diane Long 
AgenT 

"I think I'm out of network television for good in any regular way," Schorr said. "I'm not interested any more.'' 
He said he's not disenchanted and ''I'm not criticizing television and I'm certainly not criticizing television journalism.'' 
Schorr was suspended by CBS News after he turned over a secret congressional report on the CIA to the Village Voice, a Manhattan­weekly newspaper. He went before the House Ethics Committee last week but refused to reveal who gave him the report, on grounds that as a newsman he had a right to keep his source confidential. 
In reference to Schorr's appear­ance before. the committee, Salant wrote in accepting the resi'gnation, "You did a superb and eloquent service to all of us in journalism and, above all, to the principles of the First Amendment and the public's right to know." 
'Tt·araftl't 't•ar. I ~t·mt·~trr ·aftt·r ~l'llll'~h·r. till' ( 'ollrgt• \Ia~it•r 
from Fidl'lil\ l ·nionl.ifl.· ha~ ht'l'll tIll' llh )~I <ll'l'l'pft'<l. llH)~f 
popular plan on rampu~t·~ all 

•ntor.\ merira. 
Find out "In. 

Call the Fiddil\ t nion {"ollt·gl.·\ la~tt·r Fil'ld .-\~~oriatt• m 'our an.·a: 
'Ji5 1;:. Ced.u Soulh Bt•nd, Ind. Phone 287-2327 

"r.r l-' 1 • l' 'I'' I''
'.. 

the observer Wednesday, September 29, 1976 

House phone calls costing taxpayers 
EVANSVILLE. Ind. AP-Hundreds of telephone calls that cost Indiana taxpayers over $72,000 were made on Indiana House and Senate credit cards during a 12-month period ending June 30, the Evansville 
Press reports. 

In a copyrighted story, the newspaper said calls were made to such far away places as the Virgin Islands,-California, New York City and Alabama. 
"The calls were only part of the Senate and House long-distance calls that cost taxpayers $72,885 for a 12-month period ending last June 30." the newspaper said. 
"Lame duck Sen. Rudolph Clay, D-Garv. was the champion out-of­state ~aller. From June 8 to July 6 this \Tar. he rang up a record 85 interstate c·alls alone," the story continued. 
The calls. the story said, were made to relatives. business con­tacts. hotels and motels. and homes and offices of state legisla­tors when they were out of Indiana. 
A search of state records turned up the calls when the Legislature was not in session, the newspaper also said. 
In addition to credit card calls, there were three calls charged to the Senate's information-reception telephone placed from the Virgin Islands, including one number discovered to be a Bronx, New York apartment, and another from Puerto Rico to Beverly Hills, Calif. · 
"The out-of-session credit card calls ranged the width and breadth of the nation, from large cities to rural hamlets, from mountain re­sort areas to Florida vacation spots ,'' the story said. 
The newspaper also says Indiana taxpayers have been paying for hundreds of dollars worth of bou­quets for members of the Indiana House, their families, staff em­ployees, lobbyists and others. Most of the bouquets, it said, were given as an expression of sympathy during times of illness or death. 

NO women restrict clothes-washing males 
[continued from page 1J 
women's laundry rooms. because, 
"girls have it worse off." She also 
cited the lack of machines to 
service Breen-Phillips 213 total 
residents. 
Siegler stated that if men were 

kept from using women's dorms 
they would push more for some 
l}niversity solution. "Maybe 
they'd push for machines in guys' 
halls." she said. 
Kathy Kane, Walsh's President, said that they would definitely not in1pose a fine, but instead, are "encouraging girls to lock the room behind themselves." She noted that all room keys fit the laundry room lock. 
"It's not to be mean or anything, but we figure that if we keep guys out, they'd be willing to fight more to get machines in their dorms or something," Kane stated. She realizes the problem of the men, but said that women should have a right to use the machines tn their own dorms. 
Farley has had the policy of a $5.00 fine for the past three years. This is the first year of great enforcement though, because of increased male u.se of the machines, Kee said. 
Breen~Phillips is currently using a verbal and sign system to try keeping men out of the room. This, however, has not been too success­ful as the sign explaining the rules was ripped down just after it was put up. Breen-Phillips's laundry room is closed 24 hours td. males. 
Lyons Hall locks their laundry room to outsiders after 5 p.m. Hl\11 President Molly McGuire was un­available for comment, as were residents of Badin and Lewis. 
Farley President Kee said that if men refuse to pay the fine in her hall, she would then work through the individual's hall government. If the person refused to oav. she 
Judge Hunter's suspe·nsion to be future consideration 
INDIANAPOLIS AP -The h{diana Supreme Court probably won't consider a petition to remove Justice Donald H. Hunter from the bench until a regularly scheduled court conference Monday, Chief Justice Richard M. Givan said Tuesday. 
The petition was filed Monday by suspended Ripley Circuit Court Judge Lendall B. Terry. 
Terry alleged Hunter engaged in an unlawful conspiracy to protect Batesville attorney William W. Greeman from criminal prosecution for allegedly filing forged docu­ments in Terry's court. And he claims the conspiracy resulted in his suspension without pay from the Ripley County bench for alleged improper· conduct in April 1975. 
Terry petitioned the supreme court earlier this year for reinstate­ment. And he repeatedly made references to the alleged conspir­acy during a three-day hearing earlier this month to determine whether he is now fit to resume his official duties. 
In the petition filed Monday , Terry asked the supreme court to suspend Hunter from his position on the court and order the Judicial Qualifications Commission to in­vestigate Hunter's activities. 
"I t will be taken up in the due course of things,' Givan said. 
Givan questioned why Terry filed the request with the court rather than taking it directly to the judicial 
commission,  where  most  com­ 
plaints are filed.  
But he said the supreme  court  

had the authority to refer the matter to te commission if it deemed the situation worth investi­gation. If it does not vote for referral, the issue is dead, he said. 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS PRESENTS A POETRY READING BY 
ERNEST SANDEEN 
Tonight at 7:30 in the Library Auditorium Professor Sandeen will autograph copies 
of his new book following the reading. 
would have the power to charge the person through Student Accounts. 

In Farley, the Hall Council decided to impose the fine but resident assistants refuse to en­force it, said Kee. Sr. Jean Lenz, 
the  hall's  rector,  was  also  not  
responsible  for  enforce ment,  she  
said.  

Breen-Phillips will decide after a few weeks if they will start fining men caught using machines, said Siegler. They will first, however, try to relieve the problem through communication of their rules. 
One Breen-Phillips resident stated a counter-view saying that she could see situations where men could use the machines: "I would say that if they don't use' it on a regular basis and no one's down there, and if they really need it, then it would be all right.'' She cited the example of a male with a broken leg whose roommates would not bring his laundry down to be done for him. 
S~holastic Magazine perseveres 
[contmued from page 1] · allows a lot m?re freed~m in style. A newspaper s style 1s set. In Scholastic, f~om ~rticle to artie!~· the style ~anes w1th the author. , 
Accordmg to Phelan, Scholastic tries to maintain a balance between 
Pro-1 ifers to meet 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's Pro Life will hold its first meeting in the LaFortune Amphitheatre tonight at 7:00pm. 
lnclqded in the meeting will be a 15 minute slide presentation, the formation of the education, legisla­tive, publicity and newsletter com­mittees and an information session about the pro-life political picture. 
news, cultural and athletic stories. Phelan sees the future of Scho­
"We go with a ~hematic issue when Jastic emphasizing feature stories. 
we feel there s a theme worth "Given the fact The Observer and 
pur.suin_g." he stated. The football the Juggler exist as the newspaper 
r~v~ew 1s the only standard thema-and literary magazine, the purpose 
tic 1ssue. of Scholastic is to be a features 
The eleven-member editorial magazine," he stated. "I can see board generates 90 to 95 percent of .no change.'' the story ideas. The board assigns
the stories to writers whom it feels would have a good viewpoint. The sse meeting 
remaining articles are unsolicited. 
The first meeting of the Student 
Scholastic, in its 108th year, is Body Congress will take place in the oldest campus publication. the LaFortune Auditorium tonight Until 1965, it served the dual at 6:30pm.· function of newspaper and topical The Student Government cabi­
magazine. Witil_the advent of The net, Student Union commissioners, Observer in 1966 the value of news all members of the HPC and SLC in the publication declined and student members and class officers 
turned to features. will be expected to attend. 
Viel Vergnugen 
.OKTOBERFEST '76 
ONE DAY LEFT 
Donnerstag Sept 30 
Freitag Oct 1 
4:30-6:15 

-German Dinner & Skits  
6:15 9:00  -7:00 -Hall Decorating Contest Judging -12:00 ~ -Dance with SAHARA Regina North Admission -$.50  

(Hall Decoration Winner Announced) Beer Garden ($2.00) Regina North Basement Lounge 
Sponsored by SMC 
4-7 Happy Hour -Library Beer $.25 /glass Mixed 2 for 1 Polka Contest ­Chugging Contest 
8 and 1 0 Movie 
-Carroll Hall SMC Marx Bros. ­"Horsefeathers" 
Admission -FREE 
Social Com·mission· 
-----------------------------~­

EDITOR'S NOTE: George A. Brown lives with his wife Mimi, and five year-old son, Cannon on a farm in Buchannon Michigan. For nearly ten years, Brown has removed non-consumable food from the dining halls at no cost to the University. 
Observer: Whl(n did you come to the United States? 
Brown:l came to this country from Jamaica in 1940. I came during the Second World War when the United States recruited men from other countries to work. I was twenty years old then and worked in Michigan picking mushrooms on a mushroom farm. OBSERVER:After your citizenship was reinstated, what did you do upon returning to the United States? 
BROWN: I left America for a few years and returned to Jamaica. I came back to Michigan, got married, and worked for the Clark Equipment Company. My wife and I oecided to buy a farm. Neither one of us had ever lived on a farm in .our lives. The family we purchased the farm from were only the fourth generation of farmers. The land was virgin land. My wife and I became farmers fast. We built the home we live in and cultivated the land ourselves. Our feeling is that this is God's country. You cannot take away what the Lord has blessed. I feel we have been blessed. 
At first I began my farm with a few goats. I now grown corn and raise pigs. 
OBSERVER: What are the proceedures you Jollow when feeding your pigs? 
BROWN: My farm as it now stands has ninety pigs. My farm has been inspected by the government and meet the proper standards. 
Each day grain must be fed to the pigs. They require a daily supplement of grain. Eight years ago I went to Notre Dame and asked if I could haul away the excess non-consumable food and waste from the dining halls. I was told that I could. I took the garbage away each evening. Accord­ing to the health standards, before the garbage can be fed to the hogs. the garbage must be cooked. I have a cooker 
A telephone call started things off: "Hey Gregg, we're sitting in line for Springsteen tickets. Wanna take a shift?" 
Waiting in line outside LaFortune didn't hit me as the 111ost appealing thing to do with a weekend. After all, just two short weeks before, I sat in line one morning for football tickets and ' come back the next night to purchase some America tickets. America's subsequent cancellation did not make me look forward to sitting out for nothing again. 
However, a good show sounded appeal­ing and my time shifts were very reason­able--7:00am to 1:OOpm on Saturday and 3:00pm to 9:00pm on Sunday. I could still see the Purdue game and possible get in some greatly needed study time to boot. To top it off, our group would start waiting at 3:00 pm Friday--two and one-half days before the sales. The promise of excellent seats won out over the concern of rain pounding on my head while sittin in line so I told my friend I'd join his waiting group. 
Although I did not sit straight thru the entire two and one-half days, twelve hours is a sufficient amount of time to observe any usual or unusual occurences that are intrinsic in a waiting line's nature. What follows are a few incidents that occurred during the weekend: on the farm. I cooked the waste from the BROWN: My wife and I understand the Despite the fact the women are in the dining halls and mixed it in with the grain. lonliness that the students feel when they kitchen for days on end. all it takes is for 
This proceedure cuts down the amount of ·are so far away from home. That Ionliness one person to say. "I've really been grain that I must use and as a result, the is especiaiiy magnified during the holi­looking forward to this, thank you," and cost is cut drastically. days. We encourage students to come here the tiredness leaves completely. and you 
at Thanksgiving and share a good meal feel fulfilled. 
OBSERVER: I understand that students with us in our home. Sometimes they come Both my wife and myself feel what the visit your home regularly. How is It that early in the morning and leave early the students have given to us both spiritually students began visiting your home? next day. We try very hard to cheer them and emotionally is far more than we could 
up. That is all we feel we can do to make ever give to them. BROWN: I can't remember exactly what them feel they are at home. happened, but the students all of a sudden OBSERVER: Are there any restrictions started coming. The students from St. OBSERVER: What do the students like to you have set in your home? ­Mary's and Notre Dame got whiff of the talk about? 
idea in a breeze, I guess, and latched on to BROWN: No drugs. We absolutely forbid the idea. All I can say is that my wife and I BROWN: We realize that there are a lot of the use of drugs. We don't mind if the love it. things we don't know about and there as kids drink, because in mv book. there i~ many places we've never been. But as nothing wrong with that .. When I lived in OBSERVER: Have students expressed long as they know there is someone here to Jamaica. a man who lived in ourcommunitv their feelings as to why they enjoy visiting? listen and someone here that will try to was very well known and respected. I sa\~ understand, they will come and talk-. I this man destroy his wtfe and famih while BROWN: Yes. Students have told us they know nothing about Colorado. I have never under the influC'nce oi" a drug. I ''ill neH·r enjoy coming to our home and our farm been there in my life. I am told the forget that. and I will never condone ih because they can walk for miles in the countryside is beautiful and the skies are usc. What the students du when thev are woods and relax. The walk helps them to blue. When they tell me they are , away is there business. but \\l' do not ;t!I,m 
temporarily escape the pressures of school homesick, even though I have neve~ been such things in our home. I am pil'as<:d tu and the books. The students know they are there. I try to understand and sympathize. sav that no one has ever gone again~! our always welcome no matter what the hour I am always willing and ready to listen. no wishes. 
jmay be. They can stretch out, rela)!:. and matter what the problem may be. talk. No matter how tired or out-of-sorts OBSERVER: In \'our thirh Years in this 
i ~ 
l 
they've been, the students have come. I country, what are the lalues-_.~u attempt to
OBSERVER: I understand that you both 
com·ey?

think they like the idea of just siting in 
enjoy entertaining your friends. Besides 
a Iiome rather than the structured and 
work around the farm and small discus­
BROWN: Our home is very simple. We dodisciplined atmosphere of a dormitory. For sions, what else do you offer? 
without many things here. But we arewhatever reason they choose, the students happy people. I am at peace with my Makerare welcomed with open arms and an open 
BROWN: We also have hayrides on the 
and myself. I am a ver~· happy man.
heart. 

farm. Every year we sponsor a hayride in 
Even though we lead a simple life we are 
the fall. The kids sing and party and me that
content. I see people all around appear to have a grand time. 
arc concerned with monev and materialOBSERVER: When students are miles Ever since we've been married, my wife wealth. I am saddened that thev cannot
from home they feel alone. How do you and I have given one big party a year and always find happiness in the simpie things compensate for the Ionliness? invite all of our friends. For the past few of life. This house has seen manv 
years we have had a pig roast. We used to 
millionaires who have humbled themselves 
hold the feast in our home but the crowd 
to come and visit with mv family.
BROWN: My wife and I understand the 
keeps growing each year so now we rent a 
Who is happier and richer thi~n I am?
loneliness students feel when they are so 
halJ _in Niles Michigan .. I have the pig 
With all of the wonderful friends who comefar away from home. That loneliness is 
professionally roasted and my wife and more
to visit. who could be happier andespecially magnified during the holidays. 
We encourage students to come her at three other women spend several days with fulfilled? I am a black man and I have the preparation. We both decided to 
many beautiful friends. I cannot under­Thanksgiving and share good meals with 
sponsor the roast in the spring so all of the 
stand why there are people who cannot andus in our home. Sometimes they come students could attend before going home will not love.
early in the mornin£ and leave early the 
for the summer. We 'have home-baked
next day. We try very hard to cheer them 
pies. rum cakes, pate. and all kinds of
up; that is all we feel we can do to make 
goodies---all homemade. The kids love
them feel they are at home. 

home-cooking. Karen Hinks 
Waiting for Bruce 
Gregg Bangs 

of a ''wait.'' Saturday morning proved to be most people had their allotment filled by a good time for some vigorous frisbeeing. Sunday. as the five waiters and a friendly Purdue --Sunday afternoon was a good day for 
student engaged in some long pass being in the sun. It was in the high sixties patterns. This took place inside the and (for once) there wasn't even a breeze. previously mentioned piece of grass bet­A lot of people were studying. but an equal ween the LaFortune and the Band buil­amount of people were talking. This was a ding. With both wires and football fans chance to either talk to people you haven't surrounding the throwers, it felt like we seen in awhile or get to know some people 
were in some sort of stadium ourselves. you've wanted to, but never had the time Later on, it felt like being in a fishbowl. for. The time went quickly. with people looking in at the ''weird kids --When it got dark, people went to study 
waiting for Bruce "hype" Springsteen." under the various light fixtures this --After the game, the line started to campus seems to have. It was pretty funnv grow. Close to twenty people would sleep to find out the person next to me -was o~ 
--A friend of mine who had the first shift out Saturday night. It was cold again, but a practically the same page of the same ended up giving his blanket away to a girl good supply of beer and other such related novel. When it started raining. the whole 
who was rather lightly dressed. Since it cold remedies helped fight the weather. entourage moved indoors to Darby's place. was rather cold that night, he was forced to One waiter told me the weirdest part of the After a firm announcement by Br. Gorch quickly find some way of staying warm. night was lying half asleep hearing people reminding us how we should get out by The place to sleep is in the narrow cement say "Springsteen?" "It was like some­4:00 am because -we had no right being trench that surrounds LaFortune under a body made a tape--every five minutes in there, the atmosphere became very heat vent. Although John still froze, a you'd hear a passer-by say that word,'' she pleasant. People watched TV. others person can at least "think warm." For the related. played bridge. some studied and a lot ·person who prefers his waiting at the ACC, --Sunday brought the onslaught of the slept. It was interesting to note the faces of the large heat vents on the sides of the masses as the line count on the list quickly the people who use this room for studying gates are suggested sleeping areas. zoomed up to the sixties. This brought when they walked in to this room. which 
--Saturday morning saw the mixing of about two occurences. · First, a line had been turned into a Thieves Carnival. Springsteen and football. The corridors "checker" appeared, usually the fi~:st You had to notice quickly because thev between LaFortune and Washington Hall person in line (he must feel paranoid about generally turned around and went right tend to get crowded before games, because people getting in front of him or some­back out. that's where the Marching Band meets to thing. Or maybe he feels responsible for --Somebody mentioned that they enjoyed 
step out. Therefore, there were a lot of the line. Whatever, it always seems the sitting in line as much as going to the ' band members, students and football fans first person is the checker). He has a copy concert because it gave you "an idyllic in the area. There were also a lot of of the list and every hour or so goes around chance to halt time and get away from the strange looks and equally strange ques­to see if the name on the list (or member of hectic pace of ND." He must have meant it tions by older fans who wanted to know the·group that name represents. Remem­for when his shift ended at 10:00 pm. he 
who this guy Springsteen was, and why we ber, one name can buy up to ten tickets.) is decided to stay all night anyway. were sitting around for him. Too bad we responsibly waiting. If not, that name is --After the tickets were bought, I ran into didn't have a pile of Times and News weeks crossed off the list. No cheap waiting here. quite a few people who had been waiters. 
with Springsteen on the cover to answer Another noticeable event were the After asking how the tickets were. we their questions. appearence of people who just wanted a generally would wish each other a good 
--Frisbee throwing has got to be the ticket or two and would announce that time at the concert. Hopefully, the show sport of line waiters. Practically anybody they'd be willing to join a group. Usually will be as good as the wait. Besides. a lot can throw one and the lighthearted nature they check out the high numbers, then get of people will need one somewhat rational of the sport lends itself to the timelessness desperate and go with anybody. However, reason for staying in line. 

the observer, Wednesday, September 29, 1976 
Shuttle provides ride to' Scottsdale 
by MicheUe Leahy 

to SMC. 
Staff Reporter 

The night and weekend route will run every half-hour. This route takes U.S. Highway 31 to .\ngela
As of Sept. 7, the schedules for, 

Boulevard, and from Angela it goes 
the shuttle and downtown bus 
to Notre Dame Avenue, where it 
services have been changed. 
stops at the Main Scurity Gate and continues on to the library. From
The shuttle between the Notre 

there it turns around and follows
Dame and St. Mary's campuses 
the same route-back. There is a
consists of three routes. According 
charge of 15 cents. Bus service will 
to the South Bend Public Transpor­
terminate at 12:45 am on the
tation, the express route runs· 
weekdays and at 2:45 am on the
Monday through Friday beginning 
weekends. 
at 7:45 am until 6:00 pm. This 
shuttle stops at the Grotto and 
Flanner Tower. From Nieuwland Students planning to go down­
Science Hall. it turns around and town or to Scottsdale Mall, the 
follows the same route back to St. City of South Bend provides trans­
Marv's.Scheduledtimes from Nieu­portation Monday through Satur­wla~d Science Hall are 7:45am, day. The bus lines are on an ll:53am, 9:58am, 11 :05am. 12:08 interchangeable basis. Notre pm. 1:OSpm and 2:08pm. Dame is at the northern end of the route. If you desire to go to The local route will run in the Scottsdale you would board the morning starting at 7:45 and will . Miami-Scottsdale Bus and this will continue till 6:00 pm. This runs take you directly to the mall. This every 15 minutes and will stop at bus runs every half-hour from the St. Mary's in front of LeMans. Notre Dame library and from Holy Sandeen will readf 
SUNSHINE PRO~OTIONS ~BILLY SPARKS PRESENT:
From there it stops at Flanner Cross Hall at St. Mary's. The first Tower, the Northe'rn Security bus runs at 7:58am. The last bus from his poetry _ 

Gate, the Library and the Main from Scottsdale to Notre Dame is at Security Gate on Notre Dame 8:15 pm. There is a charge of 30 ur. ernest Sandeen, professorAvenue. At this point it goes back 
cents. emeritus of English, will read from his poetry at 7:30pm Septem­ber 29 in the auditorium of the Memorial Library. The reading is open to the public.
Utility wants rate hike 
Last spring, Sandeen's third 

HAMMOND, Ind. -The Nor­tomer using natural gas for home volume of poems, "Like Any Road thern Indiana Public Service Co. heating will pay approximately Anywhere: New Poems,'' was (NIPSCO) says it needs $65.2 $3.40 per month or $40.85 per year published by the Notre Dame 
million more from its customers to more for natural gas service begin­Press, and he will autograph copies offset the increases in prices the ning in November, while the aver­following the readings. utili!) pays for natural gas. age NIPSCO residential customer using natural gas for purposes Sandeen has taught at Notre 
The firm said the price increase other than home heating will pay 81 Dame since 1946 and ·is a former is a result of the July 27 order by cents per month more or $9.69 chairman of the Department of the Federal Power Commission annually," the utility said. English. In addition to previous allowing producers to charge high­collections of poems published in er wholesale prices. The increase NIPSCO said that even with the 1953 and in 1961, his verse has 
latest price increases natural gas
was to encourage producers to appeared in several periodicals,
will be more economical for heating
supply more natural gas. including Poetry, The New 
purposes than other fuel. 
Yorker, and Saturday Review. 
The order applied only to wells that went into production since Jan. I. 1973. Most gas now in use 
Flip to host Nadia special
is from "old" wells that went into production before that date, 
Nadia Comaneci, Olympic gym­Comaneci and Wilson will visitN IPSCO said. 
nast and gold medal winner, greets her hometown: a small village in America in a special, "Nadia-­the Carpathian Mountains called "To offset the increases from its 
From Romania With Love", to be Gheorghiu-Dej. Comaneci also pipeline suppliers for "new" gas, filmed on location in Romania this introduces Theodora Ungureanu,NIPSCO yesterday filed two peti­fall for broadcast on the CBS her best pal who achieved a 9.90 in tions with the Public Service Com­television network Nov. 18. 1976. competition at the Olympics.
m•sston "to recover such supply 
8 p.m.-9 p.m., E.S.T. Flip Wilson Comaneci and Ungureanu, alongincreases," the company said. 
will host the one-hour landmark with the Gheorghiu-Dej Gymnastic The utility said the first increase, broadcast. Troupe, give performance in the if approved, would go into effect "Nadia--From Romania With village stadium.
Oct. 27. The second hike would Love'', marks the first Entertain· "Nadia--From Romania Withbecome effective Nov. 1. 
ment Co-Production between the Love" is a Co-Production with··As a result of the increases, the 
United States and Romanian televi­Clerow Productions, Inc. and Radi­average NIPSCO residential cus­sion. oteleviziumea Romania. 
EARTH 
WIND 
& 

FffiE 
and Special guest to be announced 
Friday Oct. 15 8:00PM Notre Dame ACC Tickets $6.50 Main floor and all padded seats 
5.50 Bleachers 

On Sale now at: ACC Box office, Robertson's, St. 
... 

Joseph Bank and Brances, First Bank (Main Branch only), The Elkhart Truth, Just For The Record (100 Center), Suspended Card (Elkhart), The Record Joint (Niles), Boogie Records (Mishawaka;. 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~ 

by Ed Girardet Pacific News Service 

Priolo is a small, grimy town on the Italian island of Sicily. The few trees that ·survive bear dust-cover­ed leaves, the air smells chemically foul and the fresh linen hanging on the balconies turns grey before it is even dry. 
For years, Priolo's 12,000 inha­bitants have stoically accepted the bronchial and intestinal disorders caused by the town's sprawling petrochemical factory, cement wo­rks and chemical magnesium refin­eries. 
But now Priolo is beginning to have second thoughts, in the wake of the disaster at Seveso, a town in northern Italy where the accidental escape ofTCDD dioxin poison from a factory forced the evacuation of 1500 inhabitants. 
Priolo's authorities are consid­ering a mass evacuation of the town because of its "intolerable" pollut­ion rate. 
In the rest of Western Europe. the press has zealously dramatized the Seveso disaster and examined in glossy detail the '· danger industries" and anti-pollution safe­guards in their own countries, asking: can it happen here? 
And no doubt a large partof the public has been shocked to learn that not only could it happen "here," but it had been happening "here" for years. 
Western European countries like France. Italy, Portugal and Spain have never considered the environment issue a high priority. Only in the Scandinavian countries,. Great Britain, West Germany and Holland has there been a show of concern. 
No pollution borders 
' I .

But unlike concern, po luuon knows no borders. Britain's heavy industries in the south billow out toxic fumes causing acid rains to fall on the pine forests of Norway, retarding or destroying tree grow­th. 
"<tctories in Switzerland, West Germany and France pour tons of mercury wastes into the Rhine River, \1 hich carries pollution thro­ugh Holland and into the North Sea. 
Threatened as well are historic towns like Venice, whose buildings and statues are menaced not so much by the rising tides of the Adriatic as by atmospheric polluti­on from the industrial complexes at nearby Mestre and marghera. 
And in Base, northern Switzerla­nd, the townfolk have suddenly become worried by a meteorologica I office report warning that their medieval town could turn into the "filthiest in the world." The villain: sulfur dioxide waste prod­ucts from local industry and excess heat from the nearby Kaiseraugst nuclear power station, Switzerlan­d's largest. 
What angered the Swiss most of all was the supression of the report by authorities for more than three years. while environmentalists fo­ught fruitlessly to halt the opening of the nuclear plant. 

Among Europe's major pollution problems in the Mediterranean, where the dumping of DDT. merc­ury, cadmium, crude oil and high-level radioactive wastes is threatening to turn a great sea into a dead mass of water much like some of America's Great Lakes. 
With more than 30 million touri­sts visiting the Mediterranean eve­ry year, its death would be a economic blow to the 18 European, Arab and African states bordering it. Tourists are already feeling the effects of pollution on their holida­ys. 
Shoreline waters in Greece are devoid of life, polluted by the massive, uncontrolled industrial complexes outside Athens. Beach­es along the Italian Riviera are littered with plastic and petrol wastage. And fishermen in France are bringing in fewer fish. 
In February of this year, 16 of the 18 Mediterranean states agreed at a TJnited Nations Environment Program (uNEP) conference in b.;rcelona, Spain, to take construc­tive steps towards halting the pollutinn before it is too late. 
And in order to help the experts and the public prevent further Sevesos, says Hans Mollenhauer, UNEP director in Geneva, they are now preparing a special register of toxic chemicals and ways to cope· with them 
Environmentalists try to arouse public 
But although the scientists may agree it will be up to politicians to apply the controls. And in the wake of Seveso, environmentalists are still wondering if the public is aware or aroused enough to make 
PLUS PARTS, MOST CARS 
SPECIALISTS IN ENGINE TUNE-UP, BRAKES, AIR-CONDITIONING 
%BLOCK SOUTH OF MISHAWAKA K-MART
.,.

...259-6391"
I.U~AMERICARO 

OPEN MON.-SAT. 8-5 
sufficient demand on its represent­atives. 
For until Sveso, the public in countries like France suffered, as a journalist at the nouvelle observat­eur put it, "from 'he m'en fouris­me"' (literally, "I couldn't give a damn-ism'' 
Environmentalists have te.nd­ed -to be scientists, left-wing un iversity and political groups or lone crusaders such as Switzerland's Franz Weber. an energetic journa­list often compared to Ralph Nader. 
And with few votes at state on pollution issues, government offic­ials regard environmentalists, esp­ecially the "non-qualified" ones like students, as little more than a n).lisance. 
But a few groups have managed to overcome government or indust­ry resistance and scored environm­ental victories. 
Last July. youthful demonstr­ators joined the farmers of Lanne­nmezan, in the Pyrenees mountai­ns of southwestern France, to blockade a factory for almost two weeks and force the management to halt the flouride waste rejection 
that was ruining crops and contam-j Phone: 284-417 6 
inating farm animals. 
Similarly, despite the promise of newly-created jobs, the p..:upk of Marcholsheim in the Alsace, ir. eastern France, opposed the cons.­ruction of a German chemical factory which threatened to release dangerouli lead wastes into the atmosphere. 
And in 1975-, the French Minis­ter of Living conditions made a move to slow industrial pollution in populated areas by closing -eight factories until they complied with anti-pollution regulations. 
Wednesday, Septembe.:.:r....:2:.:9.!_,_:_19:.:.7--=6____...:t.::h:.::e:__:o::.:b=-=s...::e:..::r_v:.._e=-=-r___~S 
Irish women may. come to~ United States 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland ­Two leaders of Northern Ireland's women's peace movement said yesterday they will take their crusade to the United States next week to plead anew with Ameri­cans to stop sending money that, the women say, fuels terrorism. 
Betty Williams and Mairead Corrigan, co-founders of the non­partisan and nonsectarian six­week-old movement, said they will fly Monday to Buffalo, N.Y. at the invitation of the Public Broadcas­ting System (PBS). 
Williams said that they will appeal in a nationwide telecast to Irish Americans to cut off the flow of funds that they claim supports the Roman Catholic and Protestant gunmen waging terror warfare in Nortehrn Ireland. She and Miss Corrigan are Catholic, but their movement includes both Protes­tants and Catholics. · 
·'The people who give the money have no idea about where it goes.'· Williams said. "They are third­generation American Irish. They have just no idea about what is going on over here." 
She said U.~. money has been helping sustain the main guerrilla armies-the Provisional wing of the Irish Republican Army, the pre­dominantly Catholic guerrilla ar­
•my, and two Protestant paramili­tary bands, the Ulster Defense Association and the Ulster Volun­teer Force. 
Britain and Ireland have fre­:JUently alleged that Irish-Ameri­~ans send money to Northern Ireland thinking it will be used fm rehabilitation. In fact, officials say, 
I 
1­
I w NO 
SMC 
Oct. 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 at 8:00p.m. 
THEATRE 
All seats $2.50
O'LAUGHLIN ($2 Std-Fac-Staff)
AUDITORIUM Special Rate 4 Plays 
-
r----------------------------, 
Interviewing for L~~-r::fership Positions Officer Selection Team On Campus, LaFortune Student Center Sept 2 8 -Oct 1 , 9am-4pm 
the major recipient is the IRA. No figures were immediately avail­able. 
The Provos are waging a bomb­and-bullets terror campaign to unite the Protestant-dominated British province of Northern Ire­land with the Catholic-led Irish Republic. The Protestant militants are fighting to maintain th.:ir control over the province. 
''Many people have gone across to the United States to try to stop the flow of cash to the terrorists and have failed but we hope we'll be more successful... Williams said. "That monev could be channeled in~o factori~~ to provide work for our menfolk.·· 
Corrigan. 23. said there had 
been considerable support for the 
Northern Ireland women· s peace 
movement in the United State~. 
"We are going over there to tell 
the people. particularly the Irish. to 
be very careful about the money 
that they give to organizations for 
the 'aid· in Ulster." she said. 
The two women said they also 
plan to talk to New York church 
leaders about the situation in 
Northern Ireland and the desire of .the people here for peace. They return home Oct. 7. 
The women formed their peace movement after three Belfast child­ren were killed bv a runawav auto during a gun battle betwee~ IRA terrorists and British troops. 
The children's funeral brought together 2,000 Catholic and Protes­tant mourners, and convinced Wil­liams, 32, that the time had come to put an end to the killings. Corrigan, an aunt of the slain children, joined her, and other housewives quickly flocked to their banner. 
Heartbreak House 
G. B. Shaw's propheticcomedy. 

Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 .., Phone•(219)283-8661 [ND]
"%The Observer 
(219)284-5365 [SMC] an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
EDITORIAL BOARD
The Observer is published by students of the University of Thomas 0'Nei I Editor-in-Chief
Notre Dame and St Mary's College. It does not necessarily Dan Sanchez Managing Editor
reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed.
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Gregg Bangs Executive Editorrepresent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. 
Val Zurblis Executive Editor
Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor
authors. Column space is available to all m.embers of the Bob Mader Exec. News Editor
community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free Maureen Flynn Campus Editor
expression of varying opinions on campus Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor
Business Manager Tom Fronczak Don Reimer Copy Editr,r
Advertising Manager Mike Miller Tim O'Reiley Features Editor F:wto Editor Tony Chifari 
FrPd Herbst Sports EditorProduction Manager Martha L ~="anning 
Wednesday, September 29. 19711 

Pigs, Price and Pride 
The on-going fracas over how to dispose of 
dining hall garbage, through George Brown's 
pigs or through mechanical disposals and a 
trash removal service, is not a burning issue. 
However, it is a matter marked by contra­
dictions and at least apparent arrogance on the 
part of Edmund Price, director of food services. 
The dispute began early this semester when Price banned Brown from picking up garbage to feed his pigs. Price gave as his reasons "professionalism" and the fact that he did not want to be "pushed around" by student pressure. His action has brought student protests that he is wasting food which could be recycled through the pigs and that his arbitrary action mistreats Brown. At a meeting Monday with concerned students, Price cited problems with county sanitation standards, improved 
·efficiency and economy as reasons for the change. The students, led by Tom Soma, chairman of the Food Services Advisory Council, are not satisfied and plan to keep fighting (see Soma's letter on this page). 
Clearly Price's plan contradicts the Univer­sity's stand against food waste. Food services has berated students for wasting food and has decorated the dining halls with propaganda posters encouraging people to eat everything on their plates. Notre Dame has become a leader in the fight against world hunger; Fr. Hesburgh travels about the country warning of the need to conserve food for the starving 
billions abroad. Yet Price prefers to throw the food down the garbage disposal rather than recycle it. 
The arguments Price offered at Monday's meeting are generally weak. Brown has gotten the license needed to meet county sanitation regulations. In the broader view the new way is not more efficient since it replaced a closed recycling process with a dead-ended, energy­consuming, mechanical system. Economy is another dubious argument since the University now pays for disposal whereas Brown picked up the usable garbage for free. Price points to the fact that new disposals have been installed recently (presumably at some cost); garbage must be found to keep them busy. This is like saying, "Now that we have spent billions on a new army, we will have to find a war to put it to use.'' Even more ironically, dining hall workers report that the new system has choked on the increased garbage. 
Why then is Price so determined to drop Brown? Perhaps the true reason was revealed in his remark that he does not want to be "pushed around." That is a juvenile statement at best and hardly consistent with any "professional" attitude. Considering the weakness of his rational arguments perhaps he fears loss of face. Efficiency and economy dictate that Mr. Brown's pigs should get what garbage they can use. We hope that Price's 
pride will not stand in their way. 
P. 0. Box Q 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
54MMY, WHATAR& 
GOOO GOOO 

YOIJ STIL.L. TOIL.IN& 
!'IOR!VING, H&UO, MORNIN6, 

fOR. TH/5 01/ TYRANT NOT IN 
SAMMY, NATe. N/3/oH-

FOR.? HAveN'T YOU VIR61NIA,
! J05Hl 

HCARIJ ABOIJT SIR.
\ BfR!
" 



Brains 
vs. Brawn 

Dear Editor: We would like to respond to Chip Spina's article entitled "Goodbye, Northwestern." What does Mr. Spina have against Northwestern? Maybe he always wanted to enroll at N. U., but was refused. He must have some motive for writing such 


below-the-belt remarks concerning Northwestern's athletic depart­
. ment. Suggesting Northwestern join a high school legue, and referring to them as a ''Sesame Street Team" is not our idea of classy Journalism. The series between N. U. and 
N.D. probably should have been ended. We realize N.U. is not a football powerhouse like N.D, but they look at football a little dif­ferently than N.D. does. I think it would prove interesting if the grade point averages of the two teams were compared. We're not saying that Notre Dame's recruit­ing techniques are wrong, but neither are Northwestern's. They are just different. 
We have been under the impres­sion that Notre Dame exists in an atmosphere of class. I hope that impression is not an illusion which such as Mr. Spina create with their cranial-rectal inversions. The only thing worse than a poor loser is a poor winner. We hope N.D. contin­ues to win and also continues to have "class.' 
Nick Schn(leman 
Perry Thomey 
Question 

of Morality 
Dear Editor: 
As chairman of the Food Services 
Council, and as one of the students ' who attended Monday's meeting concerning the Farmer Brown con­troversy, I feel that I must express some of our concerns regarding the situation which were not made clear by Tuesday's Observer arti­
cle . 
All of us who where present feel 
that there is more involved here 
than simple sanitary aspects of 
garbage removal. First of all, we 
are deeplv concerned by the neg­
lect to the dignity of Mr. George 
Brown. The way in which his 
services were terminated leaves 
much to be desired. I find it hard to 
justify the letter, followed by 
further cold letters in response to 
Mr. Brown's appeals on his own 
behalf. We are talking about a 
human being here, and I would find 
it very difficult to live with myself if 
I treated a man the way Mr. "Brown 
has been treated by our University 
hierarchy. 
Secondly, ' I seriously question 
the basic morality behind the 
disposal of large quantities of 
excess. food. This wasted food 
(example-leftover chickens, hams, etc) which cannot be consumed by students since it has been heated twice, is still usefull, valuable, and legally fit for consumption by animals -namely Mr. Brown's pigs. The sad reality that Mr. Price fails to elucidate is the fact that there is a large amount of food which is simply being placed down our University disposals. We are aware that the very nature of a large food service such as ours is often the cause of this excess food, and we are not condemning the fact that this excess exists. We do, however, question the moral justi­fication for destroying this left-over food. 
we realize that we are pleading a human issue in an increasingly professional-oriented society, but maybe it's aboul time someone started to confront the issues from the human standpoint for a change. We feel that, if a sincere effort is made, the university will not have to compromise their sanitation standards in order to re-instate Mr. Brown's service. 
As a result of our convictions, we are consulting experts and examin­ing the situation further. When we conclude our investigation we will present our findings to Mr. Price and any other necessary university personnel. I sincerely hope thatthey will be willing to listen, but, so far, I am really not convinced that they will. 
Thomas G. Soma Jr· . Chrm. Food Services Advisory Councll 

--~----...,....----~-~ 
·~------.--~~·----------·~-----------.---------------------...,... 
Wednesday, September 29, 1976 
the observer 
9 

Fear, whites still rule South Africa 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -sha Buthelezi, leader of the four There are no government figures already live in those countries. Fear pervades this white-ruled land million Zulu tribesmen, said in an on whites leaving South Africa to In Rhodesia, the white exodus is as never before. After months of address earlier this week to a group settle elsewhere, but there is at a record level, with more whites black riots and strikes, some white of white students at the University growing talk among some of them leaving last month than in any South Africans are looking for new of the Witwatersrand: "The future of trying to make new lives in month since Prime Minister Ian homes abroad. Others are buying is a black future and we blacks Canada, the United States, Britain, Smith broke the country away from guns and digging in. want our future to begin now." or Australia. Many South Africans British rule 11 years ago. 
"We have completely sold out," said a Cape Town gun dealer. "People are panic buying. Their 
Workers promised democracy 
requirements have included shot­
guns, automatics, revolvers, rifles CINCINNATI ~ Delegates andand even hunting knives." 
their leaders at the United Mine''Most of the buyers expressed a Workers constitutional conventiongenufne fear at the unrest that is now under way here are walking asweeping the Cape Peninsula and fine line between democracy and
said they were arming themselves for protection," he added. disorder. 
' Whether stimulated by President The upheavals in the segregated Arnold Miller's promises of a moreblack townships since June have open convention, by organizedtaken more than 340 lives and disruptions, or just by plain ornery-injured more than 2.0.00, the cas­ness, the convention has been
ualties being almost all black. Though the violence has eased regularly punctuated by disrup­recently, it has left deep racial tions. · 
Miller has continued to call on allbitterness and distrust among the those who desire to speak. But16 million blacks, four million often his determination to letwhites and 2. 7 million mixed race everyone have a say at the conven­and Asian people who make up tion has met with little apprecia-South Africa. 
tion.
Whites fear the violence will resume. This is punctuated by "We now have a democracy in isolated 'Cases of fire-bombings in 
this union," said Miller, who is white shopping areas, militant 
running his second convention speeches by black leaders and a since replacing Tony Boyle, who general sense of uneasiness. ran a much more restrictive con-
The situation m neighboring vention, according to longtimeunion observers.
Rhodesia, where black rule in two years or sharply escalated guerrilla "In the past, our conventions warfare now appear inevitable, has were totally dictatorial and any-also caused concern in South Africa, the most powerful bastion 
:~~dw;~~~~~f~:~~~~~i·~:~~;~~
of white supremacy on the conti­nent. • who ran the dictatorial union of our 
Nor was there any joy for South past wouldn't last a day at this African whites when U.S. Secretary convention." of State Henry A. Kissinger, Miller has managed to last five 
during his peace mission in sou­days, but there have been many thern Africa, met with a group of opportunities when he may have black leaders in Pretoria to under­wanted to forget his promises of an line American opposition to South "open convention." Africa's racial separation policies. For example, on Friday, the 
One of those blacks, Chief Gath-convention decided to pause to 
Carberry receives award for engineering efforts 
Dr. James J. Carberry, professor of chemical engineering at the University of Notre Dame, has been granted the R.H. Wilhelm Award in Chemical Reaction En­gineering by the American Institute of Chemical Engineers. 
The award is the highest honor given in the field of chemical reaction engineering. It is spon­sored by the Mobil Oil Corporation and consists of a certificate and $1,000. The award is given for distinguished contributions to the field of chemical and catalytic reaction engineering. 
Carberry has made significant contributions to the field for more than 20 years in both research and teaching. Before joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1961, he was process engineer in the Explosive Department of E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company (1951-53) and senior research engineer at the Du Pont Experimental Station (1957-­61). 
A founding member of the USSR -USA Working· Committee on cooperative research in chemical 
Chess match set 
The .University of Notre Dame 
Chess Club will play a match against the South Bend Chess Club in the basement of the South Bend Public Library (122 West Wayne) at ·7 p.m. on Wednesday, September 
29. 
This is the third annual match 
between the two clubs for posses­
sion of the Donald Brooks Trophy; 
the score presently· stands at one 
match apiece. Padraig O'Briain 
will play first board for Notre 
Dame, against Saul Wanetick, 
s.tate champion of New Jersey, now 
playing for South Bend. For 
further information , call 234-9648. 
catalysis, Carberry was a National Science Foundation Senior Fellow at Cambridge University in 1965-­
66. He received the Yale Engine­ering Association Award for Ad­vancement of Pure and Applied Science in 1968 and was named Hays-Fulbright Senior Scholar at the University of Rome in 1974. 
Carberry is author of the book, Chemical and Catalytic Reaction Engineering. Since 1974, he has been coeditor of "Catalysis Re­views-Science and Engineering," an international journal published by Marcel Dekker, Inc., and is an advisory board member of Cataly­tica Associates, Inc. He has had more than 60 articles published in professonial journals and is a fellow and member of several professional societies. 
He will accept the Wilhelm Award at the annual meeting of the AIChE in Chicago, Nov. 28-Dec. 2. AIChE is the chemical engineers' professional society, with 39,000 members in industry, education, government, and private research throughout the country. 
1
~~­
tj 
,.') ... 
BEERS $.30 LIVE DISCO 

eject coal operators who might be ·that there is an organized effort among the visitors. On Saturday, being made to disrupt the conven­the delegates adjourned to look for tion, but they admit that they communists who might be infiltra-cannot say how Miller could keep ting the press covering the conven-his promises. tion. "I was hopeful that this would be 
At the opening of yesterday's the most democratic convention of session, about one-third of the all," said one delegate. "Everyone ocnvention refused to be seated should have the freedom to speak because of a lack of microphones in their mind, but there are so many 
Rhodesian government immigra­tion figures show a net loss of 4,030 whites during the first eight months of 1976 -compared to a net gain of 1,5 I 0 for the same period last year. Last month, Rhodesia lost 1,520 whites and attracted 611 new settlers. Rhodesia has a population of 270,0(]0 whites and about six million blacks. • 
For South Africans not thinking of leaving their homeland, gun training courses and shooting gal­leries are becoming increa.singl' popular. 
Volunteer ci\il defense organi­zations are heing mohilized and widely publicil'ed on the .'>tate­owned televi~ion lll'l\\ork. White'> are learning fir'>t aid. how to light 
tires and protcl't their homes.
the back of the convention hall. disruptions.," _Finally, Miller ag~eed to a 
15-'..,_._'Jt"lt'lt'lt'lt'lt'************J\
mmute recess until order was 1L Cl'nema t 
restored. llf" 77 presen S Miller's open convention policy t )has not gone unnoticed by other .t... )
11 

leaders and delegates. ~ Meet Me In St. LOUiS'' 
"I believe you are giving 'em a 1t ).little more democracy than I would ...... starring Judy Garland 
give 'em," said Wilber Hobby, ...-Directed by Vincent M' )I
president of _the North Carolina ~ _ . . lnne/1 )l AFL-CIO durmg a speech to the ...._ 7:30 & 10:00 p.m. · )I co?.vent!on. . llllf' Engineering Auditorium Admission $1.00 Patron 
~ou re bendmg over b~ckwar_d ~Cards $5.00 on sale at the door lf to give everyone a say m their ""'-Tu d & W dn d . .... 
union." ~ . es ay e es ay 28-29 . .... Some of the believe
delegates "******************* 
Wednesday 9 -1 ''DANCE YOUR PANTS OFF" 
~-_· --~! 
~i'l. ~/'f-~
.. (~-~r1 ..
1
--r .._· 
;1 

SAVE WITH THESE MONEY SAVING~u~57~~~
A b 1®
r ys 

M I (HIi AN A 

Get 2SUPER Arhy'~ 
REGULAR $1 19 Buy one ~ get the second 
69c / 
l,.tmtt 2 oer COUPON Coupon expires Oct. 13th 
Thursday Night 
_STROH'S SPECIAL 
14 oz. Stroh's Dark 
$.25 

J-;. · 

U.S. 31 N {near N. Village Mall, Roseland 
1702 S. Michigan, South Bend, Ind. 
Get 2SUPERArhy'~ 
REGULAR $1 19 
Buy one ~ get the sel ond 
69c 
Ltm1t 2 per COUPON Coupon expires Oct. 13th 
~ 

Friday 4-7 HAPPY HOUR BEERS 5 for $1 
FOOD SALES NOW OPEN 
S.E. CORNER DANCE FLOOR 
VISIT MAC N' MATHER , INC. 


Fire ant 
By Don Gardner Pacific News Service 

The controversial pesticid.e mirex -used widely throughout the South against tire ants-will be banned by the Environmental Protection Agency by the end of this year. 
An agreement between the EPA, the state of Mississippi and envi­ronmentalists to curtail use of the substance was reached last week following three and a half years of hearings into the' environmental and health dangers of the DDT-re­lated pesticide. 
Evidence presented indicated that aside from being relatively ineffective. the pesticide is toxic to many species, causes cancer in rats. and accumulates in human fatty tissue. It has been found in 40 pcr~ent of human tissue samples taken in the Southeast, leading scientists to fear the possibility of extensive cancer casualities. 
Fearing an almost certain EPA 

ban, Mississippi --the sole mar­
keter of mirex ant bait --petitioned 
the EPA one month ago to make 
the phase-out gradual. 
The resulting plan will allo\\­

Mississippi to continue to sell 
mirex in a diluted form for aerial 
spraying through 1977. Any re­
maining stocks will be sold through 
1978 for non-aerial application 
only. ­
However, the end of mirex may 

come even sooner from a different 
corner. The Hooker chemical plant 
in Niagara Falls. N.Y. which 
produces the chemical from which 
the bait is manufactured. has 
--~ ~---~-­
-Wednesday, September 29, 1976 
~ 

pesticide banned 
TRANSCENDENTAL MEDITATJoNrw·E-o.-sE-PT-.2----,
9 

PROGRAM 7:30 P.M. tNrRooucroRv LEcruRt:. O'SHA1S~NESsYi, 
TM 
DISCOVERIN~ INNER ENERGY AND I 
OVERCOMING STRESS I 

CALL 277-2900 I 
*THIS WEEKEND* 
700 Lincolnway w. MISH. 
announced it will no longer sell mirex to Mississippi unless the state idemnifies the company a­gainst all potential lawsuits. 
Hooker already faces the possi­bility of hundreds of millions of dollars in lawsuits resulting from mirex contamination of Lake On­tario. 
According to a high official in the EPA. "What we have hl!re is almost identically another kepone situation, only this one has inter­national implications. Mirex is all over the lake and Canada would like to use the lake for fishing." 
Mirex is known to decompose into kepone, the same chemical which has caused numerous severe illnesses and other environmental dangers in Virginia, where it was produced under contract with the Allied Chemical Co., which had developed the pesticide in the · 1950s. 
Allied also used to manufacture 

mirex, until the company sold out 
all mirex production to Mississippi 
earlier this year. 
War On Fire Ants 
The _dangers associated with 

mirex have been known since 1971. 
when the EPA first announced an 
intent to cancel the registration for 
the pesticide hecause of "a sub­
stantial question about the safety of 
mirex." 
. Allied appealed, however, and 
two weeks laterthe EPA reinstated 
the cancelled registration for both 
ground and aerial application. 
Since that time thousands of 

pound:, of mirex ant bait have been 
sprayed over millions of acres, blanketing the farm belt from East Texas to the Atlantic coast. 
The spraying, much of it done by federal and state agriculture de­partments, is continuing through­out the South despite the EPA decision to discontinue mirex pro­duction at the end of the year. 
The intended victim of the pesticide is the tiny fire ant, which was accidentally imported to the 
U.S. in 1918 from South America. The ant is feared for its painful sting. which leaves a small, itchy blister. Two persons with severe allegic reactions are known to have died from the sting. 
More important, the ants build large mounds, sometimes a yard high, which farmers say interfer with hay baling. 
Since the early 1960s, the U.S. 

Department of Agriculture has 
spent more than $150 million to 
control the pest. 
But th(' use of mirex and the eradication program itself have been controversial from the begin­ning. 
In 1967, the National Academy of 

Sciences issued a report which 
concluded that "eradication of the 
fire ant is biologically and tech­
nically impossible, and i-nadvisable 
were it possible." 
The report argued that the ant is 
a general predator, a beneficial 
insect because it eats other insects, 
including the harmful termite, 
sugarcane borer, soybean loopers, 
and corn earworms. 
A similar study revealed that when mirex killed most of the fire [continued to page 11] 


Not Merely a Graduate 
Level Engineering ~rogram 
The_ Navy Nuc_Jear Power ~gram is a total systems approad1 to· problem solvmg. Admiral H. G. Rickover implemented this progr~m to train intelligent _men to address complex problems through knowledge and understandmg rather than rote compliance to set procedures. This is the mos.t _selective and highest ~ayi~~ Engineering specialty in the Navy. In add1t1on to full pay and benefits, 1t mcludes a $1,500 bonus for completion of Nuclear Power School and a $20,000 four year continuation bonus. 
The Navy needs some very special Notre Dame Graduates who aren't afraid to find out how good they are. 
NAVY ON CAMPUS 
OCTOBER 6-8 
MAKE APPOINTMENTS WITH PLACEMENT OFFICE 
. . ' ' 

Oktoberfest schedule undergoes·changes 
by MicbeUe Leahy Admission to the dance in Regina 
Staff Reporter North lounge, featuring "Sahara" 
will be SO cents. During the dance, 
the Nursing Club will sell candied 
"Plans for Oktoberfest at St. apples and an assortment of pret­
Mary's have undergone some zels and chips will be provided. 
changes,'' according to Mary Klas­Since no buses will be available, 
sen, social commissioner at St. the dance at the Heidelburg on 
Mary's. On Thursday night, Saturday has been cancelled. 
dinner music will be provided by a Because of this, Oktoberfest will 
German band. The halls will be close a day earlier with the Marx 
judged at 7:00pm. and results will Brothers' movie, "Horse Feath­
be announced later in the evening. ers." Show times on Friday are 
The Beer Garden will be from 9pm 8:00pm and 10:00 pm in CaroB 
to 12pm and will cost $2.00. Hall. There is no charge . 
.BFW uses citizenshipfor world's hungry 
by Marty Standiford Staff Reporter 

Bread for the World is a movem­
ent of Christian citizens who seek, 
through contact with government 
leaders, to make their citizenship 
work for hungry people at home 
and abroad. 
In keeping with the BFW goal of a committed, informed and politic­ally active nucleus of Christians in every congressional district, a gro­wing number of members and ·friends are banding together inloc­al groups to maximize their impact. With these goals in mind, members of ND-SMC's World Hu­~nger Coalition will establish a 
Bread for the World movement in 
South Bend, starting with an 
organizational meeting Wednesay, 
Sept. 29. It will be held in the 
library lounge at 7:00 p.m. 
Bread for the World is involved 
in issues of world hunger. It 
supports church agencies working 
against hunger and encourages 
citizens to contact their congress­
men on pertinent issues. 
Being informed about relevant 
legislation and current hunger 
programs is one of BFW's basic 
goals. Monthly meeting and 
newsletters are employed for this 
purpose. Current reports on issues 
that are before congress and the 
administration are distributed reg­
ularly. 
BFW is organized by state and 
congressional districts. A coordin­
ator in each state and most districts 
works woth a committee to organi­
ze membership. A phone system 
has made quick communication 
possible. 
Wednesday's meeting will start 
with a film based on Arthur Simon's book Bread for the World. It will outline the needs that exist and show how the U.S., and the world in general, has done little or nothing to eleviate these needs. 
The U.S. spends less than 1/4 of 1 percent of its GNP on developm­ent assistance abroad, while it spends literally billions of dollars on defense and proliferation of nuclear arms. One of the richest countries or the world, it ranks 13th out of the 18 industrialized countri­es who contribute. Congress has continued to decrease this assista­nce even further. 
Baby busted, but not fined 
CHICAGO -Frank Gauss IV 
tore up the legal notice that made 
him a fugitive from justice, stuffed 
some of it in his mouth and burped. 
The City of Springfield's Traffic 
Violation Department had just 
charged him with refusing to pay a 
parking fine. 
Frank Gauss IV had no comment 
when he got the notice Monday. 
He's 4 months old, the violation 
was on Sept. 3, 1975, in Springfield 
and that, said his parents, is an 
airtight alibi. "He wasn't born 
until May 21, 1976," said Mr. and 
Mrs. Frank Gauss III, both 22. 
The father said he wasn't near 
the Springfield area at the time. 
Mrs. Eleanor Baker, treasurer of 
the City of Springfield, said, "Let's 
just call it a combination of a 
computer error and a human error. 
The baby will not go to jail." 

Rick Slager cited as AP Back of the Week 
SOUTH BEND, ln. AP-Quarter­back Rick Slager, who set a Notre Dame record Saturday by comp­leting 12 of 14 passes for 231 yards and three touchdowns, was named the Associated Press national col­lege back of the week Tuesday 
night. 
"It's a thrill," said the S-foot­11, 190-pound senior from Colum­bus Ohio. 
"But the team is so much a part of it," he quickly added. "I just think it's even greater for the team. The offense has come a long way. It shows we do have an offense that can move and can score." 
Slager had completed only nine of 29 attempts for 114 yards and three interceptions in the first two Irish games, a 31-10 loss to Pitt and a 23-0 victory over Purdue. 
But his 12-of-14 passing in a 48-0 victory against winless Northwes­tern gave him a game completion percentage of 8S.7, breaking the former Notre Dame record of 81.3 set by Bob Williams against Michi­gan State in 1949. 
"I honestly had no idea the percentage was as high as it was," Slager said. "I didn't know I had thrown as many times as I did, or that the yardage was that much. 
"But throwing passes is SO per cent you and SO per cent receivers. It was nice the guys were holding on," he laughed. 
Slager put the Irish on top 6-0 late in the first half on the eight-yard touchdown pass to Wil­lard Browner. Seven plays into the third quarter, he connected on a 70-yarder to Tom Domin and the rout was on. The third touchdown pass was to Ken MacAfee. 
Breaking the record is always nice, Slager said, but "breaking any kind of record at Notre Dame is an honor." 
How was he able to do it? 
"Mostly because the offensive line had a super game," Slager said. "After the Pitt game, thetie was a time when everybody could have just given up. It's a tremen­dous credit to the coaches and th!e team they didn't give up, they had the guts to come back." 
Slager said his performance a­gainst Northwestern was the best of his career "passing-wise." 
"But I don't know if it was the most exciting. I think he most exciting game was in the opener against Boston College last eyar, the first game I started." 
Slager, who also is a member of the Irish varsity tennis team, doubts whether he will play pro football because of his size. A good offer, however. could change his mind, he admitted. 
"Everybody would like to say they'd like to play professional ball, but right now I'm looking toward law school. I haven't really thought about pro ball. I enjoy college football. b.ut I think this probably will be my last year." 
SMC netters finish third 
by Patti Doyle 

In the 1976 State Tennis Tour­nament, both the St. Mary's and Notre Dame women's teams fi­nished in respectable positions. Purdue placed first in the tourney with a total of 28 team points and Indiana U. followed them totaling 21 points. St. Mary's chalked up 18 total team points, placing them in the position of third out of 19 teams across the state. Behind SMC came DePauw with 14 points, and in a tie for fifth place was ND and Taylor with a total of 10 points each. 
For SMC, the number one sin­gles player Barb Timm was upset in the quarter finals by Taylor with a score of 6-4, 6-0. In the number two singles position Louise Purcell lost in semi-finals to I. U. 6-2, 6-3. Noreen Bracken, number three singles player for SMC also lost in semi-finals to I. U., 6-4, 6-4. Ann Daniels number four singles player was outscored by her opponent 
Pesticide 
[continued from page 10] ants in one area of Louisiana, crop losses from the resurgent sugar­cane borer soared to 69 percent in one year. Another study showed that while one application of mirex could kill up to 9S percent of the fire ant population, as many as 100 appli­cations might be required to elim­inate the remaining S percent. In addition, the EPA's fire ant expert, entomologist William Hol­laway, testified in 1974 that "there are no ... criteria for establishing that a significant nuisance or economically damaging infestation ·exists in the area where the interest for treatment has been shown." Holloway cited a study which showed that almost 30 percent of the more than eight million acres sprayed with mirex in 1972 "con­tained almost no ants and therefore probably should not have been treated." Effective Against Humans While the pesticide has failed to eradicate the fire ant, its effect on other species --including humans --has been striking. The National Cancer Institute 
from I. U. in semi-finals 6-S, 6-4. In doubles, the number one team of Timm and Purcell upset the num­ber one team from I. U. in semi-finals 6-2. 6-3; in finals they 
played in a tight match with the end result being 6-4, 6-4 in favor of Purdue. The number two doubles from SMC. consisting of Tami 
Griffing and Ann Daniels outscored their opponents in semi-finals from DePauw 6-1, 6-2 but fell to the Purdue team in finals 6-3, 6-3. 
leers scrimmage 
The Notre Dame hockey team will scrimmage this afternoon at 
3:30 and again Friday afternoon at 
3:30. They will also scrimmage at 
3:45 on Thursday. 
Coach "Lefty" Smith invites all those interested to stop by and get a sneak preview of this season's club. 
banned 
revealed that up to 20 percent of 
the lab rats exposed to the pesti­
cide developed cancer of the liver. 
Dr. Earl Alley, a chemist for the 
state of Mississippi. testitied in 
hearings that "mirex would be 
likely to remain in living and 
non-living matter for longer peri­
ods of time than would such 
chlorinated hydrocarbon pesticides 
as DDT, aldrin-dieldrin and hepta­
chlor, pesticides noted for their 
persistence in the environment." 
Other scientists have found that 
mirex inhibits cell division in 
plankto, accumulates in fatty tis­
sue, and passes through the food 
chain to humans. 
The most startling evidence 
against mirex came this summer 
when the EPA released survey 
results showing that 40 percent of 
all persons tested in the South has 
some level of mirex in their bodies. 
The EPA plans to conduct fur· 
ther tests beginning next month to 
find out whether the 60 percent of 
the population that was free of 
mirex might show signs of the 
deadly kepone, the mirex deriva~ 
tive. 


Notices 

MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20 150, 1 day wait. 1 percent interest due in 30 days. LaFortune Base. ment. M-F 11:15-12:15 
Will teach flute in your spare time. Call Beth 8112 for more info. 
Greyhound Bus to Ch icar10 Leaves Circle Every Firday at 4:45. Call Tom at 8338 by Midni(lht Thursday for Seat Reservations and further info. 
GAY HOTLINE: 8870 October 1 and 2, 8:00p.m. to 10:00 p.m. G.C.N.D. 
P.O. Box 206 Notre Dame 
Trader's Villar]e open ·10-4 Used Fruniture, Antiques and Col­lectables 255 0314 13000 Blk McKinley Mish. 1 Blk North Frances St. 
Accurate, Fast Typin'J. Mrs. Dono­ho 232-0746 
Absolutely the bi(l(lest Junior Lea­'JUe Thrift Shop ever. Over 35,000 items. New and used cloth inC], toys, housewares, furnitures, etc. Sat. Oct. 2, 9:00a.m. 4:30 p.m. 4-H Fa•rr]rounds. Parkin'l and admission free. 
BEER Ker]s, Free Delivery and Low Prices 288-7875 Chip 
Lost and Found 

Lost: 1 hi(lhschool ring..says Benet Acasemy. Red stone, yellow-'lold settin'J, 1974 rin'J, initials P.A.R. 1 St. Mary's class rinr]; traditional di,lmond chip, 1978 rin'l, initials 
P.A.R.. B.A. 'JOid antiqued settin'l. Lost somewhere between N D and SMC Call Patti 4 5723 
Lost ND School Rin'J-LaFortune. Reward. Call C.A.B. at 1812 
Wanted 

Need four Oregon tixs. Can be 2 and 
2. Not thieves need call. For friends. Call Cole 288 5667 Thanks. 
BAMA TICKETS NEEDED 1.4 G.A.'S TOGETHER. PRICE FLEX IBLE. CALL DAVE 8528 
1 ' G. A. Alabama tix needed. Des­parate. Call John 287-6823 
Girl seeks housin'J urr]ently. Prefers separate room. Call Annalisa 6584 
Need for pairs of G.A. Ore11on tix. Call Tom at 1715 or 288-8417 
PLENTY OF CASH for 3 G.A. Oregon tickets Gus 6726 
Really need "Cryan Shames" album "A Scratch in the Sky" Call 4-5236: 
Will pay bi'l $  
Need Oregon kathy, 4418  G.A.  tickets.  CAll  
Need  Oregon  G.A.  tickets.  Call  

Ruth, 7136 or 272-3513 
Wanted 4 Oregon tickets and 2 Miami tickets for brother who couldn't C]et into this C]reat school. Ray 1417 
"Rich Uncle." needs Alabama tic­kets. 
Mike 3452 

Desperate I'd sell my mother for 3 'Bama' tickets 8775 
WE WILL T-RAIN YOU Part-time or full-time. We will train and provide steady employment to honest, dependable persons who are willinr~ and able to learn. 
We are a large company involved in the inside cleanin'l and house. keepin() of buildinr~s. Apply at ITT Buildinr~ Services, 1608 Commerce Drive, south Bend, Ind. Applica. lions ac-:epted on Tues.. Wed. and Thursday between 9-11 a.m. and 
1:30 to 3 p.m., and on Sat. from 9-11 
a.m. Egual opportunity employer. M-F. 
Classified Ads 
Need 2 G. A. Bama Tixs des~eratelv. Call.1785. 
Desparately need ride to Columbus Ohio weekend of Oct. 9. Call Gary 1785 
Go West!! In search of Ore'lon tickets. Call Grer]'J at 1650 · 
WANTED: Assistant Householder for psychiatric half-way house facil ity. Primarily weekend work invol vin'l overnir]hl stay. Room, board plus small salary. An excellent experience for anyone interested in social services work. Call 234-1049 for further informalion. 
Roll Tide· got some extra G.A. tix you wanna get rid of fast? Call mary 8125 
Addresers wanted Immediately! Work at home.. no experience nee. essary. excelient pay. Write A mer ican Service, 6950 Wayzata Blvd., Suite 132, Minneapolis, Mn. 55426 
Ride available to Micir]an State C]ame. Call Tim at 8618 
Urr]ent. Need a place to live quiet, non-smoker. Please contact Bill at 7437 till 5 p.m. weekdays. 
Need two tickets to Bama 'lame Call AI at 1762 
RIDE TO Toledo this Friday. Call Pe'l'lY 8125 
Need 2 Barna fix for parents who have never been to a NO game. Mary8125 
For Sale 

Set of 8, lon'l stemmed Coors C]lasses. Best offer .. call Steve 1478 
NEW LONDON LAKE CONDOM! N IUM 2 bedrooms, den, 2 car C]arar]e. $33,900. Sandy Stroes 272 7750 or 272-2696 
CALCULATOR FOR SALE Texas Instruments SR 11. Ori11inal box with full accessories $90 ·new, sell for $35, Dave 8528 
For Sale: Mich. St. Tix Call 289-8316 
67 Muslan'l Conv., Classic, very 'JOOd condition, new top, new tires, 289 enr]. $1100. 287-7693 
62 Mercedes 220 4 dr, stereo, radials, fine condition $1100 287-7693 
Good Condition Oldsmobile F-85 year 66! call 289-4736 for informa­tion-------------­1972 Honda 450 excellent condition, $60 or trade tor car. Call Chari ie 277-0692 after 6 P.M. 
AM-FM 4 channel stereo receiver 66 watts channel stereo, 4 month old. Brian 1777, $400.00 
1972 Porsche 914 SHARP 39,000 miles also new 8 track stereo recorder-player call 287.7818 
75 Nova, 6 cylinder, stick, power steerinn. Clean 288-9413 eveninr]s. 
Personals 

Mike, Want to have an INCIDENT ON 57th street? me 
Patricia O'd We're tied! "Buster" the Body Crab 
Mary Did you enjoy your animals at the 
;;;;j;---------.---­
office dOC].  yesterday?  I  liked  the  blue  
MLF  

11 was really Hollywood this week­end 
Jim, Last weekend, livin'l; next week<·''-' dead. Lon~ l1ve senior year' A 
A Zahm Fan, Sllots 

Be a political Hack' Work for the AI Lowenste•n ConC]ress;onal cam paign. See wonderful New York City durin'l October Break. Contact Tim 6701 
RAINBOW This personal is for you ( you know who you are). This is only a joke. 
Junr]le Jaws, blueberry pies are on sale this week. Yo' 
Tex, Zenith wants to see you tonite. I'm Hip 
Yamoo Wish you'd hurry up 1 Yeah 1do! When "Kent" you come? Ripplepotomus 
Dear J.P., "Happy Birthday" to a man of violence. From a women of quiet passion. 
Love, Your sweet young "friend" 

To Ryan O'Neal alis C.A.C. Have fun in Chicar]o! Keep an eye on those lips! 
Your most adorin'l fan, MJ 

Kath, I love you Bob 
MAID MARION , Need a Robin Hood? Call 6821 Pweeze 
Bella, How about Friday for theW ax Job-The Sheep 
Wish Tom "T.D.", "LITTLE MAN" SHEFFIELD A HAPPY BIRTHDAY. ALTHO FULLY DE PRECIATED AT THE AGE OF 21. WE ALL KNOW HE'S GOT A CAPITAL FUTURE AHEAD. Man-n-n!! 
Luv, Everyone 

Happy Birthday Paco' Beware old man, on the racketball courts! 
Your Idols 

EnC]aC]ement announcement PARTY AT DAVE KELLY'S Thursday night. It's been a secret lon'l 
enou'lh. · 
Live band includes Dave Batton rhythm broom Bruce Flowers bass hat rack Bill Paterna-space vocals Larry Jurkers-lead mop 
10 KEGS-check sinr]s on campus for directions. ADDED ATTRACTIONS · Tuck and Joanbone 
Mes deux comarades de chambre. 11 taut celebrer comme "Chez nous•· un peu de cafe dans le Grand Marnier. Tant pis, c'est lrop lard. Mais Bon Anniversaire .Ma 
Fluteist, Now that you know how it's done, wanna practice?? 
Duncan 
P.AGMEETING 
8:00 Tonite ATTENDANCE MANADATORY 

Senior Advisory Council Meetin(), Wed., Sept. 29, 1976 4:15 PM 124 Hayes-Healy. 
Important 

Lady, My sheeJ~ are Vir()in, but yours t use tonir~ht. Baa Baa Black Sheep 
Bella I'll sleep by your couch anytime Mies 
I
•l 
1 
• 
• 
Wednesday, September 29, 1976

Ali decisions Norton; retains crown 
by Ed Schuyler Jr. AP Sports Writer 

NEWYORK AP -Muhammad Ali, calling on every trick he has learned in his long and controversi­al career, pounded out a unanimous IS-round decision over Ken Norton Tuesday night and retained his world heavyweight championship. 
The 34-year-old Ali, sometimes 
in the first six rounds were short right hands, many of them leads. 
But Norton gave as good as he got and after eight rounds it seemed to be anybody's fight. 
Then, in the ninth, Ali came out dancing and jabbing and the jab was effective. The champion also shook Norton with a left-right-left to the head in the round which ended with Norton scoring a solid right to the head. 
of three bouts with Joe Frazier--an opening loss and then two victor­ies. 
And Ali's final victories over Frazier and Norton came as cham­
. pion. "I'm at the end of my career," he said befor~ the fight. "I can't lose it now." 
The win, Ali's 19th in 20 cham­pionship fights, earned him at least $6 million and set up a possible $10 
The live gate apparently will top $3 million and break the all-time record of $2,658,660 paid by 104,943 people for the second Jack Dempsey-Gene Tunney fight in 1927 at Chicago's Soldier Field. 

Revenue also will come in from :lased-circuit television to 300 loca­·ions holding 1.5 million seats in ;he United States and Canada and from telecasts to 57 other coun­tries. 
round. Norton spat out a challenge to Ali to come in and fight. 

But Ali would not be intimidated into doing something that he hadn't decided on doing. 
On the other hand, Ali failed to upset Norton with any of the congames he has used to psych opponents in the past. He went right to Norton before the introduc­tions and glared at the challenger. 
floating like the butterfly he has bragged about, other times sting­ing like a bee with solid jabs and short right leads, seemed to control the tempo from the outset although Norton kept moving forward and landed the harder punches. 
Ali even resorted to the rope-a­dope defense he used when he wrested the title away from George Foreman. 
There was only one thing he did not do. He did not destroy Norton as he predicted he would do. 
Referee Arthur Mercante scored the fight 8-6-l for Ali while judges Harold Lederman and Barney Smith each had it 8-7 for Ali. 
The Associated Press had is 9-8 for the champion. 
Norton now has gone 39 tough rounds with the man who proclaims himself the greatest fighter of all time. The only thing he has to show for it is one victory, some real good money and a night of frustra­tion. 
The defeat probably wrote an end to Norton's boxipg career. At 31 , movies seem to be more in his future than fights. 
Ali, who predicted the fight would not go more than five rounds, came out flat-footed, gun­ning for power. His best weap.ons 
In the lOth, Ali was dancing and jabbing again and Norton couldn't do anything about it. Ali made it three rounds in a row, at least on the AP card, when he took the 11th round, in which Norton imitated Alis rope-a-dope, a tactic the champ had used earlier in the fight. 
Then in the 11th, Ali scored with two telling rights, both of them leads, ·and two good lefts to the head. 
But Norton kept coming and punching with all his power, al­though he was never able to land the punch that could turn the tide for him in the final four rounds. And Ali remained effective with his left hand right to the final bell, although he missed more in the final 12 minutes than he had for most of the fight. 
The 15th round ended with 
Norton,  weighing  217V2,  hulling  
the 221-pound Ali into  a  neutral  
corner  and  scoring  with  several  

hard punches to the head and body. 
When the final bell rang, Norton had a look of jubilation on his face. 
But when he left the ring a few minutes later, there were tears in his eyes. 
The victo.ry enabled Ali to end this rough-tough series the same way he closed out his historic series million match with George Fore­man sometime next year. 
Ali was to get SO percent of all revenue over $9 million, but it was not known what the final financial 
figure  would  be.  Norton  was  
guaranteed  $1  million  and  five  
percent of all revenue.  

An announced crowd of 42,000-­many paying $200--showed up for the first fight in Yankee Stadium since Ingema~ Johansson knocked out Floyd Patterson June 26, 1959. And it was the first outdoor heavyweight championship bout in the United States since Sonny Liston's kayo of Patterson at Chi­cago's Comiskey Park Sept. 25, 1962. 
*Observer 
Sports
I...___-----·--­
Walsh, Lewis cop lnterhall victories 
by Win Palmer 

Girl's interhall football began its second week of the season last night as Walsh Hall defeated Farley Hall by the score of 14-8 and 
Lewis Hall edged Lyons Hall in a thriller 18-14. 
Walsh 14 Farley 8 

Losers by the identical score last week to Badin Hall, Walsh came out throwing the ball and complete­ly dominated the first half. Quarterback Anne Eisele of Walsh completed 6 of 8 passes in the half, many of them coming on crucial third down plays. 
On their second series of plays Walsh, aided by a personal foul committed by Farley, 
scored on a 25-yard touchdown burst. The extra point attempt was no good. Then, after a Farley fumble, Anne Eisele com­pleted a succession of passes to Jay Decio that moved the ball to the one-yard line where Eisele sneaked into the end zone. She then tossed a three-yard pass to Decio for the two;point play. The score stood at 14-0 at the end of the first half. 
Farley came out fired up in the second half. Mary Ellen Burchett intercepted a pass and returned it to the Walsh 35-yard line. Several plays later, Debbie Bieber scamp­ered 28 yards to give Farley its first points of the afternoon. Chris Datzman ran it over for the two-point conversion to make the score 14-8. That was the final score as the Walsh defense would not allow Farley to get within 30 yards of the Walsh goal line. 
Lewis 18 Lyons 14 

In a match of two powerhouses, Lewis eeked out a victory in a miraculous manner. The first half was nothing out of the ordinary, in fact the play was often sloppy. Lyons received the opening kickoff and promptly managed to fumble the first two times they ran plays. Fortunately for Lyons, each time they recovered their own fumble. The teams traded interceptions 

• 
Under the direction of Coach Brian Elpers, lewis edged lyons. Walsh also won in yesterday's action. [Photo by joe Burns] . 
CBS also paid $1 million to show the fight on United States home television at a later date. 
Ali was the 8-S favorite and an even bigger favorite with the crowd, which chanted "Ali, Ali," as he entered the ring. 
Then, true to his word, the champion led the fans in a cheer of "Norton must fall. Norton must fall." 
Ali also talked to Norton in many of the rounds and, on two occa­sions, was told by Mercante, "Stop talking and start fighting." 
Norton wasn't completely silent, however, in the rounds when Ali was dancing, especially the final 
with Lyons· seemingly gaining the advantage as they pinned Lewis behind their 10-yard line. Then Sue Behnke broke off tackle and outdistanced the Lyons defense to score a 73-yard touchdown. The extra point attempt was no good. The half ended as Lyons was trying 
to score from the Lewis 15-yard I . h If t k 
line. TIS go ers a e 
On the opening drive of the 

second half the Lewis backfield tore Second in tourney
up the Lyons defense. Mary Ellen Pierce ran for 20 yards up the middle. Erin Burns squirmed for 22 more yards. Then Burns dashed for a 23 yard touchdown run to make the score 12-0 as the extra point attempt failed again. At this point it appeared as if Lewis would break the game open. But Lyons stuck back. On the ensueing kickoff Jill Delucia broke five tackles to score a 60-yard touch­down. The extra point attempt was no good. 
Both teams were stopped on their next possession and as Lyons took possession of the ball with less than five minutes remaining dark­ness was setting in. On an end around play, Michelle O'Haren galloped 60 yards to score the tying TD. On a crucial extra point attempt Delucia competed a pass to O'Haren for the twq-pointer to make the score 14-12 in favor of Lyons. 
The situation looked desperate for the Lewis players as they took possession of the ball with 2 minutes togo. The first two plays went. nowhere and Lewis was forced to use their remaining timeouts. Fifty yards away from the goal line, and with only 1:35 showing on the clock, Lewis ap­peared destined for a loss. 
But on the next play quarterback Robin Jenkins handed off to Erin Burns. Burns bumped into Sue Behnke while handing the ball off and the halfback came up to completely outrun the pack and dash to a SO-yard game winning touchdown. So what appeared to be a busted play turned out to be the winning touchdown. 
Oregon ticket d istri b ution continues today 

Notre Dame and St. Mary's students desiring a ticket to the Oregon football game for their personal use may obtain them at the ##1 and ##2 Ticket Windows on the second floor of the ACC be~innin~ today. _ · 
Seniors may pick up their ticket on Monday, Sept. 27; juniors, graduate and law students on Tuesday, Sept. 28; sophomores on Wednesday, Sept. 29; and fresh­men on Thursday, Sept. 30. Married students desiring tickets for themselves and spouses will be able to procure tickets with their class. 
The ticket windows wil1 be open from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., including the noon hour, each of the four days. 

When reporting to the ticket window, students must present' their ID card alo:ag with the 4-game season ticket that they were issued earlier in September. At that time students will fill out an application to present with their ID. One student may present four lD cards and submit four applications for adjacent seating. 
There will be no charge for Notre Damt undergraduates. However, St. Mary's students will be charged $6 for their ticket while Notre Dame graduate and law students will be charged S3 as will the spouse of a Notre Dame student. 
No Oregon student tickets will be issued after Oct. 1'. 
by Tom Desmond 

The Notre Dame golf team turned in one of its finest perfor­mances in recent memory as they captured second place in the rain­shortened Indiana Intercollegiate Golf Championships yesterday. 
A field of 19 teams toured the 7 ,059-yard, par-72 Golf Club of Indiana course with host Ball State University coming out on top with a score of 375. Coach Noel O'Sull ivan's Irish were two shots back at 377, last year's champion Purdue was third at 381. 
Individually for the Irish, soph­omore Biv Wadden carved out an outstanding two-over par 74 on the rain soaked course to put himself in a four-way tie for the individual champtionship. A bogey on the second sudden death hole stayed the Glenview, Illinois native from victory as he came away with the runner-up trophy. Scott Steger of champion Ball State took the individual honors. 
Notre Dame Open champion Tim Saurs came in with a 75 as did freshman John Lungren. The other freshman on the squad, Dave Knee, finished with a 76 while Bob Belmonte, a senior, closed with a 
77. Team captain Rich Knee was plagued with penalty strokes and had to settle for an 81. 
The Irish will close their fall golf season with the Notre Dame Invita­tional on Monday, October 4. The 
ten-team event is slated to begin at noon on the Burke Memorial Course. 





