St. ~1ary's housing 
Opinions differ on crowding 

by Debbie Dahrling Staff Reporter 
A new dimension has been added in the past few days to the overcrowding situation at St. Mary's. What started out as a unanimous group of irate parents and confused and upset freshmen, has branched out into different viewpoints of this problem. 
Although many freshmen have already been moved from tempor­ary housing to permanent housing, the majority of them are still waiting for the word from housing to move. Each day more girls are being moved from lounges, typing rooms and classrooms into per­manent rooms in the various dorms on campus. 
"The parlors in Holy Cross are being emptied first because the entire hall is affected," stated Dr. Kathleen Rice, Dean of Student Affairs. "The students' visitation rights are being infringed upon so this became the first priority," she said. 
The first parlor room in the lobby of Holy Cross should be cleared out by this afternoon. The room had been converted into a quad, there­fore cutting off the visitation hours for the residents of Holy Cross. The two remaining parlors should be cleared in the next few weeks. 
Kathy Vilona, one of the "luc­kier" freshmen to be placed in the beautiful, spacious parlors of Holy Cross, could not believe her new room. "It is so nice," she said, "this is what they call being stuck?'-' Six other girls living in a study lounge in the basement of Holy Cross also have no complaints They have fixed up the room and now they don't want to move again. This is a new probl~m because the girls in some of the rooms have begun to like it, and now don't want to be separated, having become very close to their room­mates. 
In McCandless Hall, the emer­gency housing consists of the typing rooms and the corner lounge-kitchens on each floor. However, as with the girls in Holy Cross, they are beginning to adapt to the rooms. The lounge-kitchens are either triples or quads, and to make up for the inconvenience, housing is paying for refrigerators in each room. 
The worst conditions are in Regina Hall where girls are living in the language classrooms. "The 


Sept. 5. For more information about this and other Student Union services see story on page 6. [Photo by jim Hofman 

Migrants seek assistance from ND-SMC community 
by Maureen Flynn Campus Editor 
Members of the Student Bar Association at Notre Dame have responded to a plea for help from striking migrant workers at a tomato processing plant in Warren, Indiana. • 
The students are asking mem­bers of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community _to help them support the workers by bringing non­perishable foods and other needed supplies to the Student Bar As­sociation office in the basement of the Law School. 
The supplies will be taken to Warren. where migrants have bar­ricaded themselves inside the workers' camp to protest conditions at the Morgan Packing Company. 
According to a press release from the Warren Camp Strike Committee, the migrant workers' grievances against the Morgan Company include unfair hiring practices, unsatisfactory pay, lack of a grievance system aAd poor camp conditions. 
"We recognize that to negotiate in good faith this must be a give and take situation," the statement said. "However, it has been our experience that when a poor and powerless people negotiate with a party of the stature of the Morgan Packing Company, there always is more give than take unless the powerless people can wield an economic weapon strong enough to compel the opposition to be more considerate." 
A negotiating session between the two factions took plac_e on Aug. 
·2s. but was terminated by a walk-out of Morgan's attorneys "who refused even to discuss guidelines by which the negotia­tions could be made meaningful," according to a subsequent state· ment from the workers' camp. 
The statement from the migrant group said that workers will take "economic and non-violent" action by remaining on the picket line and calling for a walk-out of other field workers "until out grievances are listened to and negotiated." 
John Morgan, owner of the Warren plant, is seeking a per· manent injunction in the Federal 
court  against  the  workers,  who  
have been  on  strike for ten  days  
now.  

To help sustain the migrant workers and their families during the strike period, "the Farm­workers Camp Committee ask the support of interested persons for the following critical needs": meat; milk-fresh, Enfamil, lsomil. Similac, Pet Milk; baby food -all types; flour -masa harina, flour for flour tortillas; coffee; sugar; fruit and fresh vegetables; eggs; lard; butter; baking powder; salt, garlic, pepper; cooking oil; potatoes; toilet paper; Clorox or bleach; soak ­laundry, bath; pampers (baby dia­pers); canned goods -all types; bread; cookies; vegetables; pinto beans by lbs; cereals; rice; trash bags; tomato sauce. 
Contributions for additional food and medical supplies may be sent to The Warren Farmworkers Food Committee, care of Jesus Ramirez, 
P.O. Box 124, Warren, Indiana, 46792. 


by Katie Kerwin Staff Reporter 
Curb ramps, dorm modifica­tions and other renovations de­signed to accommodate handicap­
ped students  were  added  to  the  
Notre  Dame  campus  during  the  
past summer.  

More than 25 curbs were ram­ped, making it now possible for a student in a wheelchair to cross the campus from one end to the other. Ramp entrances were also installed in the Hayes-Healy Center, the Nieuwland Science Hall ahd the Infirmary. These three buildings 
were chosen according to Br. Kieran Ryan, Assistant Vice President of Business Affairs, as important campus facilities which were not easily accessible t<> the handicap­ped and for which modifications were feasible. A ramp to the South Dining Hall was constructed last spring. 
A section of Howard Hall was modified for paraplegic and other handicapped students. This invol­ved the complete rebuilding of the shower room to create a special wheelchair shower room, as well as the addition of a ramped section of hall leading to adjacent rooms and a ramp entrance to the dorm. 
Another major project, Br. Ryan said, was the modification of women's restroom facilities in the Law School. The project included widening doorways, entailing wall restructuring and other construc­tion complications. 
Many of these changes are implementations of suggestions submitted by the Committee for the Integration of the Physically Handi­
capped (CIPH), a student organiza­
tion at ND. 
This year the new University 
Committee for the Handicapped 
will study the special problems 
faced by handicapped students on 
campus and make recommenda­
tions for future projects. The 
committee will be composed of 
University members, appointed by 
University Provost James Burt­
chaell and of students representing 
CIPH. 
The Notre Dame renovations for 
the handicapped, explained sister 
John Miriam Jones, Assistant Pro­
vost, are part of an increasing 
recognition of the rights and needs 
of the han'dicapped. 
"I think it's growing," she said. "We've always had handicapped people among us, but now there is a national effort to recognize their needs and the national conscious­ness is more sensitive to the problems of the handicappeo per­

son.'' Br. Ryan views the program as a step-by-step, on-going process. "It is only in recent years that the problems of the handicapped have been given much more public attention and their needs publicly addressed." He stressed that many changes are necessary, but added, "It can't be done overnight." New buildings are now built to standards to fit the requirements of the handicapped but many older buildings pose problems, and renovations such as elevators, ramps and wider doors are impos­sible or extremely expensive. Not all the renovations that could be wished are structurally and eco­nomically feasible, Ryan pointed out 
halls are so noisy with classes all 
day that it is impossible to study," 
one girl said. "I don't have a class 
untillO a.m. but I have to get up at 
8 a.m. because classes start and it 
wakes me up." 
One room houses six girls and 
they are next door to a Spanish 
Lab. The only thing that separates 
the two rooms is sliding panel 
doors. According to these girls, the 
noise from classes all day is 
overwhelming and they are furious. 
"This is ridiculous," one girl 
said. "We are paying $5,000 a year 
for an education. How do they 
expect us to get one with conditions 
like this?" 
"I want to transfer," said 
another girl. 
Another problem for these girls 
is the male teachers and students ­
that roam the halls for classes. The 
girls have to keep a close lookout on 
the haHs before going out in the 
mornings and the afternoons. 
''All colleges run into problems 
like this," said Dr. Rice. "We had 
to create space and we wanted the 
freshmen to become a part of the 
campus life. The alternative we had 
were to keep the freshmen here on 
campus or rent an off campus _facility." 
Public telephones, elevator but­tons and drinking fountains placed high on walls are among the other inconveniences experienced by people in wheelchairs. 
"Put yourself in a wheelchair for a day and go around the campus," Br. Ryan challenged. "There are all sorts of details and difficulties that never occur to most people." 
Ryan hopes the new University committee will evaluate the situ­ation at Notre Dame and make realistic suggestions for a contin­uing program so that ;handicapped students can fit more comfortably into U life. 

which includes a fountain and picnic tables, has been built this summer in an area adja­


2 the observer 
On Campus Today 
Saturday, September 4, 1976 
7:30 pm -meeting, society for creative anachronism, in spite of popular demand, Iafortune ball­room. 
Sunday, September 5, 1976 
8 am, 10:30 am, 4:45 pm -mass of the holy spirit, beginning of the school year, regina hall chapel. 
1 pm-forum, black cultural arts forum, cce aud. 
2 pm -softball, varsity basket­ball team and coaching staff, all invited, jake ktine field 
8:15 pm -concert, david clark isele, baritone, sacred heart church, sponsored by music dept. 

Seniors expand class trip plans 
Mike Miller, chairman for .ne senior trip to Southern California football game in November, has announced several new develop­ments in plans for the trip. 
A fourth plane has been secured which increases the number of 
>I' seniors going on the trip to 700 and insures places for the trip for those on the waiting list from last year. The cost of the trip is expected to remain at approximately the ori­ginal price of $250 or to possibly be lowered due to the arrangement made for this fourth plane, Miller 
said. ~;:~;;~~;-~~;;~~;;~;;~;;~~;;~;;~~~~
Miller also said he will in a few ;-, . weeks start taking the names for a ~ new waiting list of those who did Student Union Concerts Presents · 
not not sign up last year but who __. _ desire to go on the trip. When K:> __.-----....._ openings on the trip become avail-K:> / ~ able, they will be filled according to >c::;:> this list on a first-come, first-serve :5 basis. ~ 
The Alumni Club of Los Angeles >co 
is very excited about the seniors attending the game, Miller noted, and it has indicated the seniors will be invited to its activities for the weekend, including a drink-a-thon scheduled for the night before the game. 
Miller pointed out the travel agent who is handling the trip is arranging for an information night for all those going on the trip in order to fill out the trip's details and to supply general information on the Los Angeles area. 
f· ,_ The trip committee is compiling 
i: 
a comprehensive list of somet'jptional activities of Los Angeles. 1 r·.:._ ·Final payment on the trip will ~ "1'>robably be due sometime in

f. 
mid-October, be stated. However,l·.Miller emphasized those who have r signed up for the trip and are . considering not going will not 


· receive their deposits back. "We made it very clear last year that if they signed up it was a final commitment and that they would Jose their deposits if they dropped 
out, " he stated. Announcements about the prog­ress of the trip arrangements and a more specific time schedule will be made in upcoming weeks, ac­cordinrz to Miller. 


(*The Observer1 
Night Editor-Martha Fanning Ass't Night Editor -Katie 
Friday, Sept. 3, 1976 



·Security_...clarifies campus car policy 
by Gerry Delgado Staff Reporter 
Bringing one's car on campus for the first time can be a traumatic experience if the student is not forewarned ofthe tough time at the gate. 
According to Arthur N. Pears, Director of Security, "Regulations concerning the driving of cars on campus will be getting stricter in the next few years. It seems a lot of 
people  would  like  to  see  the  
university  go  back  to  being  a  
pedestrian  campus.  As  a  conse­ 

quence, the rules are very clear-cut and absolute." 
Most of the security regulations were quite reasonable when seen from an outsider's standpoint, according to Pears. A fifteen minute pass is readily granted to unload groceries or "heavy, cum­bersome objects.'' 
Other cases where permission to drive on campus would be granted include driving an injured student to his or her dormitory and picking up band insfruments which are stored in Washington or Holy Cross Halls. 
STUDENT UNION PRESENTS 

Dr. Zhivago 
(in cinemascope) 

1
in the engineering aud. 6:30 and 9:30 p.m. Friday, Sept.3 Saturday, Sept. 4 Admission $1.00 
special guests 
JOHN SEBASTIAN 
and 


SILVER 
Saturday , September 18 at the Notre. Dame ACC TICKETS $6.50 and $5.50 
On Sale Thursdayat 9:80_ AM at the following locations: 
·Student Union TICket Office -ACC Ticket Office -and all ACC outlets 
/'Sl-.lUI_x_;ILX.JULJLJL)(..Y-...X..X.JLJ''-"-.._._........._"'--'--A->uc....J<..](.J<-"-"-..A.....Juc....J<..]('-"-"-"--"-· 

When asked about the contro­enough to take out, she should be versial subject of picking up stu­nice enough for the guy to want to dents on campus for a date, Pears walk her to the car." replied, "Rule 18 states, 'Requests "In conclusion " Pears added. 
from students to drive on campus to pick up a girl friend for a formal affair in formal dress at night shall be honored.' 
"Normally, in any other case," "the University advertises itself as a pedestrian campus and the Department of Security will work to make sure that it stays one." 
be refused. If the girl is nice 
So.ph. dance 

rescheduled 

The Sophomore class "Summer Finale" dance, originally sched­uled for Saturday, Sept. 4, has been rescheduled for sometime later in October, according to Sophomore Class President Mike 
Clancy. Those students who have already purchased tickets for the dance will be given refunds at dinner today in the North and South dining halls. The dance was to be held at the Electric Circuit in Elkhart. 
: "TIMM PARTY STORE : :oPEN: MON -SAT 9 am -11 pm! : SUNDAY 12 noon-11 pm •
• 

: COLD BEER, PACKAGE IJQUOR,: : WINE, GOURMET FOODS : : 3114 S. 11 ST. NILES, MICIDGAN: 
:1 MILE NORTH OF IND.-MIC::H. STATE LINE ON U.S.31: 
l~r <loloutal 'ancaltt -oust 
WELCOME BACK 



N.D. -S.M.C. STUDENTS 
U.S. 31 {Dixieway North in Roseland Across from Holiday Inn 
BENCH 


CRAFTED FRYE BOOTS 
Great pull on boots for guys or gals sure to be that special touch your wardrobe has been needing! Choose from a selection of colors and heights. Come in and try a pair on ..• you'll take them home with you! 

ADLER'S 
N& COUNTRY 
SCOTTSDALE 
Kerwin 

september 2.3.4 
Copy Reader -Barb Lang­
henry MARTIN1
Day Editor -Kathy Mills 
Editorials -Pat Hanifin 
september 10. II 

Features -Chris Smith, Griff 
-·-... _
Sports -Fred Herbst 

Typists-Nancy Cueroni, Mary 
~EAt.. MUSIC,
McCormick, Morey Blinder, 
l 
Marie McCarthy Night Controller-Terri Harla"J 
I I I • 



Friday, Sept. 3, 1976 the observer 
At Saint Mary's 

Rice heads Student Affairs 
by Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor 

Dr. Kathleen M. Rice has joined St, Mary's administrative team as Dean of Student Affairs replacing Dr. Mary Alice Cannon who re­signed after five years as Vice President for Student Affairs. 
According to Rice, many people don't know exactly what function Student Affairs serves "so it is easy to blame them. However, I intend to make sure all areas of Student Affairs are concerned with evaluating the effectiveness of what they do," Rice said. 
As an example, Rice cited a research project that they are currently conducting. Resident assistants at St. Mary's are now obligated to take a two credit hour psychology course for two semes­ters. "The counseling research project is designed to evaluate this course to determine its influence on the R.A. 's," Rice explained. 
Financial Aid and Campus Min­istry are also under the jurisdiction of 'Student Affairs this year. ''These two areas are counseling functions in a basic way", said Rice, "and it's good that they are here." 
Everyone i• concerned with stu­dent development, Rice explained, but she indicated that the emphasis is slightly different. "Student Af­fairs emphasizes student develop­ment in extracurricular activities," 
1 Rice said, whereas the faculty would be concerned with the academic aspect of student life. 
However, Rice stressed that Stu­dent Affairs and the faculty should "Work together as co-practition­ers." 
Prior to her job at St. Mary's, Rice was a professor at Northeas­tern University in Boston and a consultant for the College Entrance Examination Board's New England Regional Office, Waltham, Massa­chusetts since 1971. 
She has also held the position of associate director of admissions 

Dr. Kathleen M. Rice 

Close to Cam pus NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS 2 bedrooms -Completely Furnished $260.00 per Month Up to 4 Students 23_3-6363 _or 234-6647 
SUNDAY MASSES 
(Main Church) 
5:15 p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C. S.c. 9:30a.m. Sunday Rev. Oliver Wiliams, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sunday Rev. John C. Gerber, C.S.C. 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. Evensong will be at 7:15 p.m. in Lady 
Chapel. Homilist will be Rev. John C. Gerber, C. S.C. 






aai\aaaaaa
£1 £1  TENTION : ALL Leaders of  l3 l3  
£I  CLUBS & ORGANIZATIONS  l3  
£1  If you wish to have your club  l3  
£1  represented at  13  
ACTIVITIES NIGHT,  
£1 to be held Sept 13, please attend a  13  
£1  short meeting Sept 6, in  13  

£1 LaFortune BaUroom at 7:30pm. 13 
£1 Thank You 


aaaaaaaaa 
and director of transfer admissions for Boston College 1972-1973 and direct~r of counseling and testing at Graham Junior College from 1969-1971. 
Rice received her B.A. from Northeastern University in 1967, her M.Ed. from Bostion College in 1969 and her Ed.D. from Teachers College, Columbia University in 
1976. 
FAST TYPEWRITER SERVICE 288-8721'1 
2915 Mishawaka Ave. 

SALE! 

MEADOW DAY PACK 
~ 

PADDED SHOULDER STRAPS WAIST BAN 
LIFETIME WARRANTY 
REG . $15.95 

NOW $12.00 

SIERRA SPORTS 2216 Miami South Bend, Ind. 233-8383 


~J:.l~IV~ 



SENIOR 
SENIOR 
Fri. S~~~lQ-~OOpm 
The Fireworks Festival! 
3 days of music, food, refreshments and fireworks 
Friday September 10-rock and roll featuring 


BROWNSVILLE STATION 
and the electric blues of 
LUTHER ALLISON a~d MAGI 
Saturday September 11 
rock from Detroit 
FRIJID PINK 
and formerly of Ides of March 
Jim Peterik Blackstone, and TOUCH 
Sunday September 12 country & western 

NARVEL FELTS 
and South Bend's own 
South Shore and finals of 
Battle of The Bands 
battle of the bands 11:00 a.m. -7:00 p.m. daily! 
liUhUY Fireworks DISPlay corn Roast/Sausaue/Retreshments 
Tickets: S7.50 for three day pass; S4.00 for Friday and Sunday individual day tickets; $3.00 for Saturday tickets and now on sale at the following River City Review Ticket Outlets: Just For The Record (Mishawaka), Boogie Records (Mishawaka), Record Joint (Niles), Suspended Chord (Elkhart & Goshen), Notre Dame Student Unicn, Pandora's (South Bend), Jennifer's (Scottsdale Mall), World of Sound (Plymouth) and Cripe's Home Entertainment Center (Nappannee). Stay tuned to WRBR for further details. 
Outdoors at Wander Conservation Club 13040 Day Road· Mishawaka 
Directions from South Bend: Edison Rd. East to dead-end at Grape Rd. North,1 block ·m Day Road. Take Day Road East 4 miles. Gat~s open 4:00 p.m. Friday, 11:00 a.m. Saturday and Sunday.". 
--~-------------­
*T~d.Q~~~rver

The Observer is published ion of a majority of the Edito­by students of the Univer-rial Board. Commentaries are sity of Notre Dame and St. the views of their authors. Mary's College. It does not Column space is available to necessarily reflect the policies all members ofthe community, of either institution. The news and letters are encouraged to 
· d . 
IS rep~rte . as accurately . and pro~ote th_e ~ee expression of as. o~JeCtlvely as poss1b~e. varymg opm1ons on campus. Ed1tonal~ represent the opm-
Busmess Manager Tom Fronczak 
Advertising Manager Mike Miller 
Photo Editor Tony Chifari Thomas O'Neil Editor-!n-Chi~f Dan. Sanc_hez Managmg E~1tor Chns Sm1th Asst. ~anag1_ng Ed. ~rfgg Ba!lgs Execut~ve Ed~tor 
a Zur~hs Ex~cU!IVe E~htor BPatbHMandlfin EEd!torN!al EdiEtod~t 
o a er xec. ews 1 or 
Maureen Flynn Campus Editor Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor Don Reimer Copy Editor Tim O'Reilly Features editor Fred Herbst Sports Editor 

Production Manager Martha _L:::.-:F-:a:-n_n:;:in::!ig!...-_____________________-JJ Friday, Sept. 3, 1976 ~ 


Drop Parietals Rule 
The parietals rule is unchristian and contrary to conceptions of the University as a free society or as a family. It is unenforceable without unchristian and un-American tactics which would break the ties of mutual respect binding the University community. Even if it was enforced, the rule would not necessarily instill Christian sexual ethics. So, while we do not object to Dean Roemer's belief that it is his duty, as Dean, to enforce the rules, we strongly object to the parietals rule itself. The University is not a monastery. If the "Nine Command­ments" are going to be enforced, this one should be dropped from the list. 
What we object to is not the Univer­sity's concern for moral education but rather the tactics by which that concern is expressed. The parietals rule is designed as a buttress to the sexuality rule. However, an attempt to instill private sexual morality by rules and coercion is improper at a Catholic university. To show one's concern does not require showing one's teeth. 
As an attempt to impose morality by 
threat of coercion, it violates Vatican II's Declarations on Religious Freedom and on Education. Religious organizations, said the Council, "ought at all times to refrain from any manner of action which might seem to carry a hint of coercion." Youth has a "sacred right" to "weigh moral values with an upright conscience and to embrace them by personal choice.'' Because this right rests on human nature, the Council pointed out that it "continues to exist even in those who do not live up to their obligation of seeking the truth and adhering to it.'' 
The parietals rule would violate consti­tutional liberty if it were passed by any government of the free American society. But the Preamble to the Rules and Regulations seeks to distinguish Notre Dame from the rest of America on the ground that it is a "voluntary society." This is ludicrous. The laws of American society are restrictions its members voluntarily place on themselves by the democratic process. At Notre Dame the parietals rule has been imposed on the student body by the Administration with the implication of "love it or leave it." So as far as rules go, America is more voluntary than Notre Dame. 
The parietals rule even contradicts the administration's own in loco parentis theory as that doctrine is set forth by Fr. Burtchaell in his famous "Life With(out) Father" article. Burtchaell stresses that in loco parentis "need not imply ... that the student is a juvenile, while his teacher is an adult ... Nor need that parent-child relationship always be color­ed by authority." But the parietals rule is an exercise of authority which can be justified only if the student is a juvenile, too irresponsible to determine when he or 
she  should  entertain  members  of  the  
opposite  sex.  Parental  concern  is  re­ 
placed by nine commandments.  
Because  the  parietals  rule  is  so  
unpopular with  the  student  body,  the  

Administration cannot depend on volun­tary compliance. The situation is similar to Prohibition: when a law is contrary to the beliefs of the great majority it will be obeyed only when authority is watching. Like the Prohibition laws, the parietals rule teaches disrespect for the rules in general and for the rulemakers them­selves---certainly the wrong lessons for a Catholic university to teach. 
If Roemer is really serious about enforcing the rules, he is going to have to resign himself to frequent invasions of privacy, reducing the hall staffs to the status of "house dicks." That is the only way he is going to catch offenders. The University has made students waive their legal right to privacy to get a room on campus, but it cannot change the fact that barging into someone's room, unwanted, unannounced and warrantless is contrary to the principles of American liberty. It is also contrary to the Christian liberty set forth by Vatican II which specifically includes "the right to protection of privacy." To have rectors and R.A.'s padding about the halls in the wee hours of the morning, looking for illicit visitors and handing over students to the Dean for punishment will strain the bondr, of mutual respect fundamental to comm •n­ity life. 
Even if the rule is enforced by such measures, it will fail to teach students proper sexual ethics which will last after graduation. The poet John Milton made the point best in his classic defense of liberty, Aeropagitica: 
''I cannot praise a fugitive and cloister­ed virtue, unexercised and unbreathed, that never sallies out and sees her adversary, but slinks out of the race where..that immortal garland is to be run for, not without dust and heat ... Banish all objects of lust, shut up all youth into the severest discipline that can be exercised in any hermitage, ye cannot make them chaste that came not thither so." 


Puzzling Provost 
One of the best things about the Administration-Student Body relation­ship at N.D. is the effort the top administrators make to keep in contact with the students. The interview Fr. Burtchaell gave in Wednesday's Ob­server was an instance of this, but some of the contents of this contact are puzzling. 
Burtchaell compares the students to guests who should do as the "senior people" say. We have always thought that students are part of the University community and not merely guests here (and paying guests at that). Is this remark inconsistent with Burtchaell's statement in his in loco parentis article that ''it does no good simply pounding the table, reminding the students that they are on our turf, and showing them the door if they fail to abide by our rules"? 
Burtchaell's comments that "the sen­ior people are in control of the Univer­sity" is also puzzling. "Senior people"? Are the faculty included? And "control," as Burtchaell himself noted earlier in the interview, ''is probably not a very useful notion to pursue." Students would prefer to have more "influence" and to have the opportunity to exercise more "initiative" (the Provost's terms) but no one is suggesting seizing "control" of the University. We have always felt that a. community is a cooperative venture. 

opinion~~~~~~~~~ 
SBP Speoks 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii mike gass man 
Now that parents have left, classes have begun, and food at the dining halls has returned to "nor­mal", I would like to welcome all returning Domers, and especially the Class of '80 to du Lac. The 76-77 school year offers much for the students at Notre Dame. Of course there will be a National Championship, but perhaps even more important, Student Govern­ment this year will take the oppor­tunity to serve the student body as· never before. 
Many things have been accom­plished so far, and many more are to follow. The most visible accomplishment was the imple-· mentation of a proposal from the Student Life Council's Social Space committee. Led by its chairman John Reid, and with help from Brother Just Paczesny and Student Affairs, the "Crossroads Park was constructed behind LaFortune. A 1976 graduate, Paul Linehan, de­signed the plaza and oversaw its construction during the summer. I personally wish to thank Paul for his many hours of devotion to the park, as I know all ND students will during the coming years when it becomes an integral part of our campus life. 
In addition, plans and proposals are being worked on to develop a more viable Student Center, with emphasis now on the expansion of the Huddle. The SLC will meet soon, with Student Body Vice-­President Mike Casey as Chairman and an excellent group of faculty, administrators and students ready to assume last year's work as well as pressing new material. 
We plan to meet often with members of the Board of Trustees, to bring the voice of the students directly to the top, with possibly even a discussion of parietals. Our Student Body Congress shall meet within the next two weeks to facilitate the immediate and unified action on behalf of all student leadership groups. And, perhaps most important to the majority of ND students, an even more de­voted effort will be channelled into our lobbying for the lowering of the drinking age in Indiana led by Jerry Klingenberger and Buzz Reynolds. 
Our goals and projects promise a very challenging year, a challenge that will be met with a staff of competent and devoted workers. Vinnie Moschella serves as the Executive Coordinator, his major duties including the organization of the Student Body Congress, Acti­vities Night, and the Faculty For­um. Ken Girouard will be Press Secretary and Co-Executive Coor­dinator. In addition to assisting Vinnie, he will act as a liaison between Student Government and the media in order to keep students informed of our activities. 
Our "money man" this year is Treasurer Eric Ryan. Eric will 
, oversee the Student Government budget and finances. Bridget 0'­Donnell will head up the Ombuds­man Service, the trouble-shooting and information hub of our opera­tions. Rounding out the Cabinet is Pat Tack, Academic Council Rep­resentative; Tom Soma, Special Projects Commissioner; Bob Bode and Phil Mancini, Judicial Coordi­nators; John Kinney and Bill Sahm, Off-Campus Commissioners; john Clemency, AluiJlni Representative; and Rick Littlefield and Barb Frey,' Co-Ex Commissioners. As you can see, it takes people and ideas to make your Student Government successful. I would like to encourage students to come to our Activities Night scheduled of September 13, in order to discover the many aspects of Student Gov­ernment and the activities it en­compasses. It is only as good as people behind it. Have a great year! 

Current Quotes 
~'A pareut, then, at whatever age "Frankly, I don't see myself .or maturity, no matter what his standing in the shoes of parents. I degree of control, authority, or doubt seriously that hall staff involvement, retains a total con­personnel view themselves in that 
cern for every feature of his child's awesome capacity. The relation­life. ships between University staff "And why should a university people and students is completely educator not stand in the same different from a parent-child rela­situation of total concern: in loco tionship. The parent can spend all parentis?" day and all night with an individual son or daughter when that person
Fr. James T. Burtchaell; is sick or in trouble or in need of In Loco Parentis: Life With( out) help. Father Aug. 1972 
Dean James Roemer 8-28-76 

DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

.... 




Friday, Sept. 3, 1976
letters to a lonely God 
Arrows in their flight 
This is the beginning of my seventh year as an Observer columnist and my tenth year as a resident of Keenan Hall. In those early years on campus, I was terribly worried about students who use drugs. I am still worried about them, but drugs are not a subject I now feel like writing jere­miads against. Today there are other kinds of mind control I dread nearly as much as drugs; for example, a contemporary spec­tacle that frightens me is the ease with which human beings give away the freedom of their wills to the first religious charlatan that promises them heaven. As a priest, I know how easy it is to "play God"; Catholics ask me to "play God" all the time. The woman who wants me to give her permission to have an abortion, or to practice birth control, for instance; she does not want to take the responsibility, for such a decision herself, but if the priest will take the responsibility, she can ignore all the rules and condemnations that seem to say she mustn't do it. The truth is that I am willing to instruct anyone on the principles from which such moral decisions can be made, but I am extremely reluctant to say, "You can't do this" or "You must do that," because before God, every human being should be willing to be answerable for his own life. Who am I that I should intrude on so holy an arrange­ment? 
In New Jersey this past May, a seventeen year old high school girl was killed when a fifteen year old boy threw a firecracker at a plate glass window. A shard of flying glass lodged in the girl's jugular vein, and she died instantly. The New Jersey community where the girl lived was stunned by the tragedy, and her high school classmates were heart-broken. The girl's mother was reported in the press to be saying over and over again, 'Why did God do this? Why did God let it happen?" 
IfI were to have talked with that mother, I don't know what comfort I could have given her. At a time when we are faced with senseless accidents, chaos rather than Providence seems to be ruling the uni­verse. But in the rletachment of my living remote and secure in a New York city rectory, reflecting on the death of a stran­ger's child, I could reason:"It was not God who threw the firecracker. It was a fifteen year old boy who threw it." The boy had probably been warned again and again not to endanger himself and other people with his lethal toys, just as we warn students who mess around with M-80's in the halls. He had thrown the firecracker anyway. The result was a funeral to which the community and the high school and the family came as mourners. 
God could have created a simpler world. He could have made us creatures who are programmed to follow pre-established routines like the wooden horses prancing on a carousel or the pendulum that swings on a grandfather clock. Instead, He gave us freedom which involves choices: free­dom to serve His love or our own selfish­ness; freedom to be gentle or vicious; freedom to create or destroy beauty. As aids to our freedom, He may beguile us with graces and mob us with angels; but, terror of terrors, having allowed us to set our wills in motion, He will not stop the arrow in tis flight. 
Perhaps, of course, He stops many arrows in their flight--"the sun shall not smote thee by day, nor the moon by night"--but I do not know the mystery of His arrangements; I cannot guess at His interceptions; I do not have a calendar of the days when the wind is tempered to the shorn lamb. I only know there are choices, good and bad, for which I must bear the responsibility, and there are sadnesses for which I may be blamed. God would rather praise me than chide me, but He has made me as His child who is sometimes wilfull, and not as His machine. Even if it means grief to Himself, He will not always J>lace His omnipotence between my act and the sometimes predictable horror of its con­sequences. 
Christians and other deviants are always trying to hand back the gift of freedom to the Santa Claus of creation. Sometimes I almost hate the phrase "God's will". "I would like to have become a priest, Father," says the aging playboy at his drink, "but it wasn't God's will for me." 
"Oh, come off it, Mac," I think to 
myself. "Don't let's bring God into it. for 
Reverend Robert Griffin 
.. 
Roberl S.C. University Chaplain [Photo by Zenon Bidzinski.] 
reasons best known to yourself, you didn't 
want to be a priest, and there's no harm in 
that. But don't pretend that vocation is an 
invitation written in the stars." As for the 
priest who speaks of his holy vocation as 
though he had responded to the whisper­
ings of eternal decrees, let it be admitted: 
men sometimes become priests for entirely 
selfish reasons. Ifthe man is a good priest, 
nobody minds, God least of all, I suspect, 
but please, Father, wipe the unction off the 
baloney. I do believe .. .I do believe ... in the 
Destiny That Shapes Our Endls,rough hewn 
them though we may. I do have faith in the 
Father Who watches the sparrow's fall. I 
am as convinced as any nun at her prie-dieu 
that God writes straight with crooked lines. 
"In God, we live and move and have our 
being," says the Word, and I have read the 
pages in theology that tell of the Divine 
Concomitance. But our comings are goings 
are bounded by a mystery, and the 
overness and underness and within-ness of 
God's presence is a mystery. More than 
we dare to dream of, more than we care to 
accept, more than our solemn posturings 
("The Lord want me to do it, Henrietta!") 
are willing to admit, God lets us choose the 
paths we walk in. I trust He is somewhere 
there in the darkness, and I can approach 
Him from many directions. But He waits 
for me to move, and not to be pushed like 
some stupid rock. Like it or not, that is 
what it means to be human. 
Remember the Legend of the Grand 
Inquisitor, when the Cardinal sends Christ 
away because, he says, Christ offers men 
freedom, and the Church has given them 
authority in place of freedom, and they are 
happier that way. This summer, the 
sidewalks of New York were filled with 
groups offering authority in place of 
freedom. The Jesus-people offered the 
Book; thi\ Hare Krishnas offered the 
Indefinite; the Moonies offered the Moon 
seen as Son. I fear those petty popes met 
on summer sidewalks, offering their twobit 
redemptions. I fear them because, 
whether they intend to be or· not, they are 
liars thrusting their half-truths on desper­
ate, searching children as the revelation of 
God's Holy Wiii. Even in the Catholic 
Church, where the Pope is venerated as the 
Vicar of Christ on earth, despite doctrines 
and dogmas on infallibility, we would not 
allow our primest prelate the glibness and 
arrogance of the sidewalk evangelists. If I 
give them, or any man, my conscience, I 
fear that he may hurt me rather than heal 
me, because I am living on his graces 
rather than my own. The woods are full of 
the burnt-out victims who submitted to the 
religious bullies who appear among us as 
though they were coming down from the 
mountain, bearing the new tablets of the 
Law. 
I cannot tel.l you enough of the ways in which I hope you will love the Church: her 
experience, teachings, traditions, doc­
trines, sacraments. But never, never 
over-simplify the truth, though in the end 
you may find that the truth is much simpler 
that the metaphysics of faith has ever 
shown it to be. God will bless in your life 
all things that are decent, compassionate, 
loving, generous. You must disapprove in 
yourself the actions that are vicious, cruel, 
selfish, petty...though who am I that you 

should take my word on such things? think some men must sail by the stars; others use charts and compasses; and the rest just seem to drift home on the tides. My task is to keep my little boat in motion, then trust the Pilot to bring me home to the harbor. 
For thirty years or more, I have been on the God-quest. I have sought Him every­where I thought I had the carfare to go. The nearest, closest and best place I have found Him is in my own heart. I trust no man's experience with God as much as I trust my own experience, though that man be a saint and scholar. If this be pride and self deception, I beg Christ to deliver me, but another man's sanctity and scholarship cannot bring God as close to my life as my own prayers bring Him. 
In conclusion, may I suggest this: reverence your own religious tradition, but except for brief times of discipleship, allow now one to "plaY, God" in your life. God has His own role to play there. He already found U!> and claimed us before we even began to understand that it is the work of a lifetime to be constantly searching for Him. 
Magnificant meals in Michiana: 

Holly's Landing 
Tim 0 'Reiley 

No, the title of this column is not a contradiction in terms. Beyond the culinary wastelands of the dining halls and Rose­land, the area offers some fine food at prices that won't deplete the beer budget. Should you want to wear something more than a football jersey and Levis, Holly's Landing is just such a place. 
Upon entering. the sight of the mostly heavyweight waitresses may scare away the unknowing. (Some of them proudly wear the title, "Holly Girl," perhaps a subtle hint for a big tip.) But overall, the atmosphere is conducive for a relaxing meal, though the lights are too bright and the lady at the piano bar plays as though she had arthritic fingers. Even though you can't see the river (the restaurant is too high), you do get a pleasant view of the nearby park greenery. 
For the desperately hungry, the tray of 
· crackers and a sharp, very appetizing cheddar cheese spread satisifies the pallet­te. Rounding out the pre-dinner refresh­ments were a whiskey sour, which fellow food critic Fred Herbst pronounced "too tart", plus a most stimulating dry red house wine (Almaden). 
The salad was crip, flavorful. with a most adequate bleu cheese dressing (the flavor of which was partially distorted by the bacon bits). Chopped egg and cherry tomatoes rounded out a generally excellent course. 
Then came the only snafu of the meal. Our waitress (probably not a "Holly Girl"), delivered the main course before comple­tion of the salad, thrusting upon the diner the agonizing choice of eating the salad too quickly, letting the main course get cold, or returning later to a soggy salad. 
Nonetheless, the entree admirably per­severed the error. My "sword-key-bob" (all the main dishes have some such name) was cooked precisely to order, though the meat was a bit tough, with a small pitcher of sauce accompanying the rice. The Shanghai chicken, choice of the articulate taste buds of Jorge Ferreiro, was praised as most succulent and tender. The rice also ~w races as more than just a filler, but a dish that could stand tall on its own. Everyone was most satisfied with the portions, too. Sr. Ferreiro was so overcome with the house bread, that he devoured the entire load (much to the disparagement of his dining companions.) 
Dessert, as is the norm for South Bend, offered little more than pie and ice cream, very easy to skip. At $22.30 for three meals and drinks, it was certainly an enjoyable, though not great meal. You won't be making a mistake by docking at Holly's Landing. 


6 the observer Friday, Sept. 3, 1976 
Student Union operation 

Refrigerator rentals start today 
Student Union Services Com­

missioner Genny Burke yesterday 
announced that refrigerators will 
be available for rental today and 
tomorrow in Stepan Center. Stu­
dents may rent the appliances on a 
first-come first-served basis from 
I p.m. to 4:30p.m. today and from 
8 a.m. to4:30 p.m. Saturday. Fees 
may be paid in cash or by check. 
In order to reduce the cost of 

refrigerator rental to the students, 
the Student Union has purchased 
Darby's Place 
to reopen Mon. 
Free donuts and drinks will be served at the reopening of Darby's Place Monday, Sept. 5 at midnight. 
Located in the basement of La Fortune Center, Darby's will once again be open from 12:00 to 4:00 
a.m. on Sundays through Thurs­days during the school year. 
Business manager Joe Gill de­scribes Darby's as a "warm and friendly place, where people can meet and talk." Father Robert Griffin, university chaplain and resident conversationalist at Dar­by's, adds that it is "a clean, well-lighted place, where students can socialize in comfort." 
Darby's, which will celebrate its second anniversary in October, is a non-profit place where donuts, coffee, tea, and soft drinks are served at a nominal charge. In addition to a Student Government appropriation of $1000 a year, Darby's relies on volunteer workers to exist. Anyone interested in working from 12-2 A.M. or 2-4 
A.M. should contact Joe Gill. 



200 two-cubic-ft. and 'too 4.3-­
cubic-ft. Avanti refrigerators. The 
appliances are walnut-colored, have all-steel cabinets and are available for rental to member of the Notre Dame community at a cost of $35 and $50 per semester. The rental fees will go into a special Student Union fund to replace refrigerators and buy new ones, Burke said. 
"There will also be a $10 · deposit, in addition to a University surcharge of $15 per semester to cover the ,cost of electricity,"she explained. If students return their regrigerators in poor condition, the $10 deposit will not be returned, Burke added. 
Students who have not yet turned in their books to the Student Union Book Exchange and wish to do so, may take them to the second 

~--Plll'L~''J CAPITAIJSM AND SEX 
~ GOLf11F _ Two dynamic themes of
CENTER 
!
' 
--~ -­
. ' 
.. ~ 
I 
~ 
"NIGHT LIGHTED" -­
9 HOLE • PAR 3 GOLF COURSE ~ .DrivinQ RanQe J8 Hole Miniature~ 
' Open Dawn Til 10,00 PM ~ ' LOCATED US 33 AT IRONWOOD ~ 
: Call I 288-0033] ~ 
I If N<> Ans Call 282-2366 :illll 1 171!1 LINCOLN WAY EAST SO. lf"'!P ~­
...........................,.; 




HUNGRY? 
no need to go far 


LOUIES 
KITCHEN OPEN TILL 3:AM 

floor of Lo.f'ortune today from 9a.m. until noon. Students are asked to write their names, ad­dresses and asking prices on the inside cover of each book and to fill out a sales contract. 
The book exchange will continue operations today through Sunday from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. each day. 
Students who did not pick up their summer storage goods on the day designated for their halls may pick them up today between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. at Stepan Center. Attendants will be on hand to check receipts for stored belongings. 
Students with items still in storage after today must deal directly with the carrier, Bekins. Students with insurance claims should also deal directly with the Bekins company. 
American civilization come to life on the screen of the 
Western  Drive-In  Theatre  
this  weekend  in  these  
R-rated films:  

Nurses for Sale Females for Hire 

Girls for Rent The Western, exclusive exhibitor of meretricious movies in the area, recommends these three films for students in pre­med, economics (macro), sociology, and American studies as well as for Georgina Spelvin freaks. The Western is located six miles west of Main Street on scenic Western A venue (St. Rd. 2). (Unfortunately, one reaches the Western before the scenic part.) The driver will be admitted free with this ad. Passengers 
$2 each. 
NOW! JAMES CAAN 
MICHAEL CAINE-ELLIOT GOULD DIANE KEATON 

Something good has happened in mid-town Mishawaka since you've been gone. Doc Pierce's Saloon has opened its doors to lavish stained glass ... everywhere. Dark woods set the mood for live entertainment six nights a week. A lavish menu that boasts of prime steaks and shrimp steamed in beer. And we certainly can't fail to mention our house specialty. Three, original portions that come in 32 ounce doses is bound to cure anything thatales ya! 
-------~~--~-------~-~­
Friday, Sept. 3, 1976 
the observer 
7 






Classified Ads 

NOTICES 
Available tor typing reports'lehesis at a proper cost. Please contact Mary Jo at 6296. T. Y. legible writing required. --88888888888888888888888888888 Sailors needed, no experience nec­essary club meetings every Wed­nesday at 6:30, Room 303 Engine­ering Building. 
Doc. Pierce's Saloon & Restaurant is hiring full or part-time NOW. Bartenders, waiters, waitresstlS, busboys. Will schedule· around academic commitments. Apply in person between 2 and 4 p.m. at 120 North Main Street, Mishawaka. Phone 255-7737. An equal oppor­tunity employer. 
Interested in 10-speeds? -Help is needed to organize a club at ND-SMC. Call Russ, 288-5192. 
Garage Sale, 130 E.Angela, Sat. 10-5. Furniture, Stereo, N.D.-SMC Text books. 
Accurate, Fast Typing. Mrs. Dono­ho 232-0746. 
FOR RENT 
5 bedroom house, furnished, East Navarre Street, South Bend. Call 259-6021. 
Garage for rent, call after 5. 
287-5718. 
3nice Fully Furnished houses for rent. Super close to campus !couple blocks(. One 6 bedroom with fireplace and two four bedroom houses. --Call 277-3604 evenings til llp.m. or weekends. All houses registered with N.D. housing. If no lucK. call 232-7263 evenings only. 
House for ent: 1018 N. Eddy (near Logan Hospital( walk to campus. Five bedrooms, partially furnished. 9 mo. lease. Very reasonable rate. Good for college students. Call 233-2613 between 7 p.m. and 10 
p.m. 

1-six bedrrom house with fireplace Desperately need two Pitt tickets ­for rent. Completely furnished and Call Bill 8764. just 2 blocks from campus at 1034 N. Eddy. No security problem. Listed I will pay top dollar tor G.A. Pitt with Notre Dame Housing Office. Tickets. Call Tim, ~868. Also, 4-bedroom, completely fur­nished house, real close at 1126 N. Hill. Completely sate, good neigh­borhood. Call 277-3604. Best time, 6-11 p.m. 
FOR SALE House for Rent, between Logan For sale; couches, chairs, misc. Hosp. & Nickies Bar on 1018 N. Free delivery to campus. Call Mrs. Eddy-Partially furnished -excellant Delphine Cooper at 272-3004. condition walk toN. D. -5 bedrroms, 2 bathrooms -very reasonable price Ladies 3-spped bicycle: excellent -Good tor group of college kids . condition. $50. 272-7360. Call 233-2613 between 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. '64 Dodge pic~.-up. Runs. Needs 
work. $200 or best otter. 272-7360_ 
62 Mercedes 220, very good con dition, radials, stereo 8-track, elec­tronic ignition. $1200 or otter. 287-7693. 
WANTED 
PERSONALS Is your lite empty? Order The Chicago Tribune. CallNeed 3 or 4 roommates to share 

8670. 

house on E. Colfax. Low rent -good 
neighborhood. 284-5726. --------------­
Pandora's books has used books tor the folowing classes:Wanted: A faculty advisor for the AAm. Studies-351, 381, 471, 476,sailing club. If interested call 1325 482. Col. Sem. -420. Gen. Prog.. 

or 5408. 
180, 191, 241, 243, 281, 345, 381, 441. 443, 445, 481. English . 109,Wanted: Football tickets two to­180, 185, 303, 311, 320, 322, 325,
gether, multiples thereof, all N.D. 
328, 383, 386, 388, 392, 395, 396,home games, call 287-3021. 
405, 425, 463, 482, 486, 490, 494, 575, 578, 596, 674. Speech, 390.
Need eight tix to Oregon game. Call Sociology, 227, 229, 511. Gov't.
Tom at 1715 or 288-8417. 
180, 343, 407, 467, 545. History, 109, 111, 115, 180, 215, 341, 345,Pitt Tix (2( --needed desparatety. 
346,413,425, 453. Philos. 101. 180, Call7471 or 288-8417. Ask for Tom. 
201, 245, 272, 275, 301, 306, 351' 363, 408, 441. Psych. 180, 377.
Wanted: Telephone extension, Call Theology, 122, 124, 136, 180, 225,John 1081 or Dave. 
226, 336, 367, 411, 453, 454, 526, 536. Mod. Lang. 180, 304, 324, 393, I will pay top price for 1 Pitt and 3 430, 441, 473-. Used paperbacK.
Purdue tix. -Call Russ at 1764. 
books for these and many more classes. Pandora's Books 937 SouthPart-time, evenings and weekends. 
Bend Avenue 233-2342 5 blocksShould have knowledge of cameras south of campus. Open 11 to 7 daily.
and photography. Apply Mon. -Fri. 
9-7 on Sunday.

9-5, Niles K.-Mart. 
J 
1 
l 
l 
l 
1 
l 
l 

~If' .• ..,..~ 

. Wertake Off~ and . puton -· lots 9fextras everywhere we fl.~ 
Whenever you take off on Continental, we'll On our spacious, wide-look 727's you can put take off 28% from the cost of a regular round­on your headset and enjoy the free stereo trip Coach ticket to all our mainland cities with entertainment. There's overhead sterage plus our Economy Excursion Fare. It's a great a middle seat in Coach and Economy that way to keep your money in your pocket. folds down when unoccupied so you can relax or 
Then sit back and watch Continental put spread out the books. on a snow. Call Continental or your Travel Agent and We've put the Pub on our wide-bodied ask for our 28% Economy Excursion Fare. 
Continental will provide information regarding specific fijghts and number of
DC-lO's, with electronic Pub Pong games and free 

seats available. popcorn. Plus exclusive specially conde.nsed Purchase your ticket at least 14 days prior to depanure. and stay 7 to JO days. Our 28% discount applies from September 16. 1976 to January Jl. I<Yn.double feature films, old-time newsreels and your Fares and savings subject to change without notice. The Coa.:h Pub is available on all Continental OC·IO's excluding Hawaii through service.
favorite animated cartoons. You can also put on the feedbag for only a dollar with our 

We really move our tail for you.
Good Times Snacks. 

The Proud Bird with the Golden Tail. 


,. 
t 
.. 
.. 
8 the observer Fridav, Sept. 3, 1976 
Talented Notre Dame frosh must still play back up role 
by Ray O'Brien Rayam and Dave Waymer should seasons in his junior and senior see some action on defense. years and was named to an 
Dan Devine left no corners of the Ferguson brings the highest high All-America team. Browner will country unexplored when recruit­school credentials of any of the also have to wait patiently on the ing last spring and came up with a freshmen. The 6-1, 193 pound sidelines as Jerome Heavens han­bumper crop of graduating high halfback was selected to two All­dles the fullback duties. school seniors. The admissions America teams in his junior and One of the hardest things to do in office rigid academic requirements senior years at Richmond High any sport is to switch positions and make the jcb of recruiting even School. Ferguson will have to get learn a new trade. This is more of a more challenging. use to watching from the sidelines feat when you are a freshmen just 
This year's group of freshmen while playing behind a quality back getting used to the college level. Ty bring with them impressive high like AI Hunter. Still Deivne noted, Dickerson has handled the switch school records. Indications are that "Vagas Ferguson .has the best from defensive back to split end this year's frosh may be the best chance of any freshman of playing. with the composure of a veteran. recruited group in years. He's very coachable, quick and Dickerson is another consensus 
This year's team will most likely talented." high school All-American. As cap­have no freshmen in the starting Willard Browner has the last tain of his team Dickerson broke line-up which is an indication of the name that everyone has heard of. the Lawrence Central High talent of the starting team. Several He has the talent to make his first School record for yards gained in a freshmen will earn a spot on the name a household word also. career and points scored in a traveling squad and will see some Willard hales from Warren Reserve season. He will keep Kris Haines Halfback Vagas Ferguson is action. High School in Ohio where his and Dan Kelleher on their toes the most likely of Notre Dame's 
With the Pittsburgh game com­brothers and teammates Ross and while vieing for the split end outstanding freshmen to see ing up Devine is relying on the Jim also graduated from. There, he position. in an offensive line. Foley was a ses. Waymer is waiting in the more experienced players. He com­ran for two consecutive 1,000 yard Speedy Hart has the kind of teammate of linebacker Stever wings as Ted Burgmeier's under­mented: "I don't think the frosh name you can't forget and many Heimkrieter at Roger Bacon High study.will play as big a role this season as WSND airs show schools will wish they never heard School. He is the brother of Buffalo With the loss of All-American last. This isn't to say that we don't of him by the end of his career at Bill standout Dave Foley. Foley will Steve Niehaus the defensive tackle have a good freshmen crop. It's This Saturday, Sept. 4, 6:30 to Notre Dame. The 6-1, 191 pounder be watching Steve McDaniels start spot was empty. Hardy Rayam a just that we are deeper this year." 7:30, WSND-AM will air its first owns just about every aerial record at the tackle position but will be 6-5, 235 pound Floridian will help
Some of the freshmen that will Sports Extra show of the year with at his aim mater, St. Mary's High waiting anxiously on the sidelines if fill that gap in a back up role. become familiar names on offense co-hosts Ted Robinson and Monte School. Hart was selected to the a need arises. Rayam captained the Jones Highthis year are Speedy Hart, Vagas Towe (Not the N.C. State basket­All-Arizona State squad in both his Dave Waymer has had an excel­School football team and was 
Ferguson, Willard Browner, Tim ball player). The show will discuss junior and senior campaigns. The lent fall season at right cornerback. selected to the All-Florida squadFo_ley and Ty Dickerson. Hardy major sports events of the week. speedster was elected student body At West Charlotte High School he his senior year. Fred Herbst ;=:=:::=:=:=:=:::-wh!===:=:::=:--:--?.::::::.;~~-1X;:=:=====================:=:=:=:=:::;:============== president as a senior. earned All-America status as a With freshmen like this not 
The offensive line has added wide receiver. Waymer has been a starting Devine can be very opti­depth this year with the enrollment pleasant surprise in the defensive mistic about the upcoming season of Tim Foley. At 6-5, 228 pounds backfield and will get some needed and confident about the winning 
the Cincinnati native fills a big hole experience as the season progres·· seasons to come.

Touching All the Bases 

~:::::::::::::~~~~=*~~!§:!:!:::::::.::::::::::::!:!:!.:~-:::::.-:::::::.:::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!:::::~~=:::t!t:::::::::::::::~:: 
One has to wonder if Joe Notre Dame next year. He has been 
Irish harriers rely on youth
Montana was meant to play football informed that the University will omores Joe Strohman, Miranda tiona!. This year's race will consist 
this season. After seeing a good not consider re-admitting him un­by Greg Solman deal of playing time last year, and less he carries at least a GPA of and freshman Kevin Kenny, Mark of three events. At two, the colle­
Novak, Fred Stepan and Peter giate team rac.es will be held. At
sparking the Irish to two spectac-3.0. Whenever you have the urge to ular come-from-behind wins, it Laimbeer regrets last year. "It complain about that walk from Burger. three, a race open to any runners looked as if Joe had a good shot at was entirely my fault," he said. mid-campus to the Rockne Mem­No one, however, will be tested and tentatively at three, a third the starting quarterback job this "Coach Phelps would ask if I was orial, consider first that there are more than Captain Jim Reinhart, a race for the area high schools. 
fourth year runner from Sioux Rick Wolhuter, a former winner
season. But the day before spring going to class and I'd tell him yes, men around you who willingly drills began he sprained his ankle even though I wasn't. The classes undertake a training schedule that, Falls, South Dakota. Reinhart, as of the ND Invitational. and a playing basketball and missed val-didn't seem all that difficult or among other things, entails run­the captain, has a big burden both graduate of Notre Dame, will be uable practice. Rick Slager took worthwhile. They seemed like high ning over eighty miles a week. on and off the field. contacted and invited to run. Wol­advantage of Joe's misfortune, as school classes. I didn't think I had They are the men of the Notre "As captain, I am trying to get huter, among other things. is the any good football player would, and to go. It all seems pretty silly to me Dame Varsity Cross-Country team, everyone together as a unit. I must world record holder in the half mile gained a lock on the number one now. If I had to do it over, it would who kick off their season in a keep the other runners feeling and most recently an Olympic 
job. Since recovering from his be different." Sept. 11 confrontation with Purdue. important, working and feeling Bronze medalist. 
ankle problem Joe hadn't been able Bernard Rencher is another man This season, under the leader­they're accomplishing something." A tough season lies ahead for the to recapture the form that he who wants to do things differen­ship of Coach Joe Piane and Senior On the field, Reinhart should ND Cross-country men, who not enjoyed against North Carolina and tly. So much differently in fact, that Captain Jim Reinhart, the Blue and experience, according to Piane, only will face last year's champion Air Force last year. he's going to do things in his God! harriers will attempt to over 
"the best season of his career." Michigan State, but will also rival Joe suffered a shoulder separa-hometown of New York. The flashy come a rash of injuries and remain Perhaps the biggest and most other fine clubs including Univer­tion in Wednesday's scrimmage backcourt player is now a Redman a strong threat in the Central exciting event of the cross-country sity of Michigan, Wisconsin, East thatmaysideline him for the season. of St. John's University. Collegiate Conference. season is the Notre Dame Invita-Michigan, Bowling Green, and 
Western MiChigan.

The shouldeer has been set and is Piane had higher aspirations for in a cast, if it fails to heal properly •••••••••• his team earlier . this year. The Falll976 Cross Country Schedule he may need ·surgery. Luckily, team, in fact, looked extremely doctors don't think the need for Despite these departures, Notre strong before the loss of three key Sept. 11 Purdue at Notre Dame; 11 a.m.
surgery is likely. Whether or not Dame has made two additions. men. Joe plays this ~eason remains to b~ Dan Nee has been added to the Injuries to Steve Welch, Jay Sept. 24 Notre Dame at Michigan State seen. basketball staff on a part-time basis Miranda (former NCAA qualifier) 
Oct. 8 Notre Dame Invitational, races at 2, 3, a!!d 4 p.m. 
Rick Slager has been impressive for the upcoming season. Nee, a and the complete loss of Bill Oll­all fall, and is a competent quarter­native New Yorker, graduated from mendinger, has left the team Oct. 16 Notre Dame and Loyola-Dual meet; 11 a.m. 
back. He's our number one man Power Memorial High School in dependent on an unusually young Oct. 22 Notre Dame at the Indiana State Meet now, and he would have been 1964 and went to Marquette on a squad. 
regardless of Joe's injury, but the basketball scholarship. The past The brundt of the weight must Oct. 30 Central College conference at Kent state Irish will still feel the loss of Joe. five years he has been a head coach fall on sophomores Dennis Vander 
Nov. 13 NCAA District Four Championship 
He's a tremendous athlete with a in cross country and basketball in Kraats and Dave Gutchenritter and knack for making the big play. the New Jersey area. junior Dim Horgan. Rounding out Nov. 22 NCAA Nationals, at Denton, Texas, (North Notre Dame needs Joe Montana. Ron Toman has been added to the squad of ND dalers are soph-Texas State) 
the football staff to work with ********** quarterbacks and receivers. Toman replaces Ed Chlebek, who was 

Freshman Pat Boggs was also named head coach at Eastern injured in Wednesday's scrim­Michigan. Toman played under mage. He has undergone surgery Devine at 'Missouri. to repair ligament damage to a knee and will miss the entire ********* season. Boggs is the second member of the Bob Best, assistant sports infor­team to fall victim to a knee injury. mation director for the University Vince Klees injured a knee earlier has joined with former Notre Dame in the fall and will also miss the assistant football coach Tom Pagna 
season. to write a book on former Irish head football coach Ara Parseghian. The 
•••••••••• book, Notre Dame's Era of Ara, has Dan Devine isn't the only Irish been called "one of the dandiest coach to lose a couple of players football books that'll ever be pub­Basketball Coach Digger Phelps lished" by Chicago Tribune sports also lost two players over the columnist David Condon. summer, but not by injury. Tower­ing Bill Laimbeer was forced to ********** leave the University after being placed on academic probation for For those who like to keep track two consecutive semesters. of such things -Elliott Walker, 
Laimbeer is now enrolled at Tony Dorsett's backfield mate, was Owens Technical College in Tol­injured in practice this week and edo, Ohio where he hopes to raise will probably miss the game· here Coach Joe Piane is counting VanderKraats, Jim Reinhart Jay his grades in order to re-apply at next week, but that's not definite. Miranda and Dan Horgan_ to'lead
(1. to r.) Steve Welsh, Dennis 









