Psychological help relieves rising academic pressures 
by Frank Tennant people need help to determine Staff Reporter students who can be aided by a superficial level of information and 
Seeking relief from increased guidance advice from those who class pressures last semester, ma­require a considerably deeper level ny students turned to the Psychol­of work. ogical Services Center for help. Dr. Of those who seek professional Charles Arens, director of the help 85 per cent come on their own. Center, said it was "inundated Arens said that there is not any one with students worried about grade major problem at Notre Dame -­inflation" and their school work. students have a wide variety of 
Each year between 350 to 400 emotional problems. students come to the Center, On the first visit to the Center located on the third floor of the the student sees one of the thera­Infirmary, for therapy. This is pists for a preliminary interview· to about five percent of the student help him assess the dimensions of body. his problem. If further evaluation is 
Psychological evaluation and psy­indicated, the student tr.kes a small 
biting winter wind. However, many have com­chotherapy have been the primary battery of psychological tests. The plained of its blustery drafts due to the shelter's interview test are
concerns since the Center opened and re:..:ults 
open air design. [Photo by Mike Kron] in 1967. This year, Arens hopes discussed by the stat: in their they can ·offer more consultation to semi-weekly case confe ~nces. If rectors, administrators and faculty accepted for treatment. the student regarding a wide range of topics. is assigned to individual or group 
Arens said, "since the Center therapy. Most new patients choose deals with considerable intimacy individual therapy. with almost five per cent of the The Center uses an e~o-enhan­
population it has some highly cing approach to psychotherapy. specific knowledge of some of the Treatment is primarily oriented proWems facing a portion of the toward helping the student cope student population." with his present. conflicts. Arens 
''The mental health professional said ''providing the student with should 'thus be available to univer­support and structure for his life sity corpmittees,administrative offi­strengthens his ego so that he can cers and department chairmen,'' more effectively direct his actions he added. toward meaningful life goals." 
The Center is available as a Concentrating on present con-resource to those members of the flicts leads. to ,shor-term ~reatment. University responsible for counsel­Past experience shows that most ing students. Arens believes these students require an average of only 
seven visits. 
Arens said that everything the "help-seeker" reveals will be held in complete confidentiality. "Per­sonal information andeven the fact 
that one consulted the therapist, will be communicated to no one, nor to any agency, without the 

House stops all Angola aid 
WASHINGTON AP -The sider its decision, or to send up Some Lusaka analysts said the in Washington that a victory for individual's expressed permis­House voted overwhelmingly Tues­separate legislation cutting the battle could signal the end of the pro-Soviet forces in Angola would sion," he emphasized. He clarified day to halt further U.S. aid to two Angola issue away from the de­uneasy, six-month alliance bet­be a Russian ''masterstroke.'' He this by stating the only two Western-backed factions fighting fense appropriations bill, ''maybe ween UNIT A and the FNLA. said it would give them an addition­exceptions. Outside help will be in Angola, and a White House with different language th(l.t will The two liberation movements al base from which to threaten vital sought when the student clearlyspokesman said the action ''can give the Congress more flexibil­have been fighting for some time oil-tanker lines to the United States intends to commit murder or only result in serious harm to the ity" with the MPLA for control of and Russia. They already have a suicide, or when he is clearly so interests of the United States.'' Western supported troops were mineral-rich Angola, which was base in Somalia and operate out of psychotic that he is unable to Prior to the 323-99 vote, Presi­reported under heavy attack in granted independence by Portugal Conakry, Guinea. manage without such help.dent Ford had sent a letter to their central Angolan stronghold by last November. 
The Center charges nominal fees House Speaker Carl Albert asking Soviet-backed forces Tuesday. --Roy Innis, leader of the Congress of $5 for the initial evaluation and that the aid not be cut off. Albert They were also reported clashing A Western diplomat in Lusaka of Racial Equality, said in Lusaka $7.50 for each therapy hour. These spoke forcefully on the floor in among themselves. was quoted as saying the MPLA after a four-day trip to Angola that can be scaled down to $5 or $2.50 favor of the cut-off. · A vote by the House of Repres­apparentlly was "going for broke" he planned to aid the anti-Commu­according to the studnet's financial 
After the vote, White House entatives to cut off American aid to in an effort to crush UNIT A before nist forces in Angola's civil war. circumstances. The Center offers Press Secretary Ron Nessen said in the pro-Western forces ended lin­Western aid could bake good the The head of the U.S. black rights unlimited credit to all students. 
a statement which he reported had gering hopes that the United States loss of U.S. military aid support. organization said: "Every African, 
The Center's staff includes fourbeen approved by the President: would stay in the conflict. In other developments: at home or abroad, has got to be full-time therapists, one of whomThe House voted 323 to 99 to --Gen. George S. Brown, chairman involved. I will not sit idly by and handles alcohol and· drug abuse''The Congress has stated to the stop aid to Angola despite a of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told the let Cubans and Russians determine cases, and a consulting psychiatr­
world that it will ignore a clear act last-minute plea by President Ford 
House Armed Services Committee the fate of Africa." 
ist.

of Soviet~Cuban expansion by brute who expressed "grave concern" if military force into areas thousands the United States backed out. of miles from either country." British correspondents in Luan­
Nessen said Ford regrets the da, capital for the Soviet-backed 
Bush approved as CIA boss
vote which he said prohibits the Popular Movement MPLA, quoted use of funds in the defense MPLA military spolesman as say­
appropriations bill to assist the ing their drive toward the main W ASIDNGTON (AP) -President want to know all that much about it that ''appointment of so clearly 
people of Angola in resisting central ~own of Huambo, Silva Ford's choice of former GOP because it could be embarrassing perceived a political figure" was Chairman Bush th(fm "certain to insure skepticism."
Soviet-Cuban intervention in their Porta to the east and Lobito to the George to suc­to politically'' if exposed, Mcintyre pointed out that Bush
country. west ws spearheaded by at least SO ceed William E. Colby as director Helm!' told the Senate Government The Senate earlier approved the old T34 Soviet tanks armed with of the Central Intelligence Agency Operations Coimmittee. would be the fourth man to head 
was confirmed Tuesday by the Senate approval of Bush came the CIA in the last three years.
prohibition that came in the form of 75mm cannon. 
Senate. nearly three months after he was Although Ford's promise that Bush
an amendment to a $112.3 billion An apparent shoot-out in Huam­defense appropriation bill. bo between UNIT A troops and Former CIA director Richard nominated. Several Democratic would not be his running mate seemed to assure that Bush would
Nessen said the President is renegade soldiers fro!ll their ally, Helms said, meanwhile, that mem­senators said that Bush's political considering two options to try to the National Front FNLA, who . hers of Congress sometimes did not past should disqualify him from head the CIA for the rest of the 
current administration ''where is
revive aid for the Angolan factions. refused to go to the front was want to be told about "dirty holding the highly sensitive post. These are to -veto the bill in an reported by travelers from Angola tricks.'' the guarantee of tenure if anyone 
Before the vote, Senate Majority other than President Ford is sworneffort to force Congress to recon-to Lusaka in neighboring Zambia. "On occasion they really didn't Leader Mike Mansfield told report­in" on January 20, 1977, Mcintyre ers the Bush homination would be asked.
Median at 2.950 
approved easily, although ''there Armed Services Chairman John will be a decid(;d number of votes C. Stennis, D-Miss., said he was against him." supporting Bush "on the basis of

Fall semester GPA increases 
One administration official had the character an integrity and by Chris Hopkins the case in the University's aver­break the pattern as its average estimated there would be 20 to 25 proven ability and judgment of this Staff Reporter age, the '74-'75 freshman average votes against the former chairman nominee.''
climbed from a 3.069 of the '74-'75 of the spring semester was \higher fall semester campaign to its of the Republican party. than this fall as it showed a 2.906 present 3.084 average. In an effort to quiet concern that In addition to heading the Re­
The grade point average for the average compared to this fall's Bush's political ambitions would publican party during the second 
The colleges averages dropped
University's undergraduates at the 2.892 average. further injure public confidence in administration of Richard M. Nix­
end of the 1975 fall semester has from the '74-'75 spring semester to on, a two
the CIA, President Ford has ruled Bush, former termThe four colleges of the Univer­
according Mr. this fall semester just as the Bush out as a possible vice presi­congressman, also has served as
risen to 2.950, to sity all displayed an increase in this University and freshman average
David Kil, assistant registrar. dential running mate in 1976. U.S. ambassador to the United
fall semester over the '74-'75 fall 
did. The College of Arts and 
Mansfield said he was "not Nations and chief American repre­The fall semester G .P.A. of this semester. The College of Arts and Letters slipped from 3.035 to a concerned about a politician being sentative in Peking.
year showed an increase from the 3.020 G.P.A. 
Letters increased its average G.P.­named to that office" and said he He was picked by Ford as part of '74-'75 fall semester average of A. from a 2.986 of the '74-'75 fall The Business Administration believes Bush will rise above last November's administration2.921. However, the G.P.A. of the semester, to a 3.020 average this college dropped from a 2.908 to a politics once he takes on the job. shake-up which included the firing'74-'75 spring semester proved to 
fall semester. 2.886 average. The College of of Colby and defense Secretarybe greater than this fall semester Engineering dropped from 2.872 to Sen. Thomas J. Mcintyre, D-­James R. Schlesinger.
as it displayed a 2.968 average. The College of Business Admini­a 2.862 average. The College of N.H., one of four members of the The White House said there hasstration increased its average from
The freshman G.P.A. also show­Sciences took a noticeable decline Senate Armed Services Committee been no date set yet for Busch's
a 2.878 '74-'75 fall semester G.P.A. 
ed an increase over the ·,74-'75 fall from a 3.110 '74-'75 spring semes­who opposed the nomination even swearing in, but a CIA spokesman
to a 2.886 G.P.A. this fall semester.
semester, climbing from a 2.837 to ter average to the present 3.084 after Bush was removed from vice said Colby would ''pick up his this fall's 2.892 average. As was The College of Sciences did not G.P.A. presidential consider!'tion, argued pencils and go home" as soon as 


' ' I t '1 
2 the observer Wednesday, january 28,1976 
~--News Briefs.,.._......-----­t==:~~=========lnternational 
'Many dead' inN. African battles 
ALGIERS -Fierce fighting erupted yesterday between Algerian ar.d Moroccan troops along the border of the Spanish Sahara. Morocan officials said ''apparently there are many dead'' in this first reported clash between the armies of the two North African states in their Sahara dispute. 
Last November Morocco's King Hassan II sent tens of thousands of unarmed Moroccan volunteers on a "March of Conquest" into the phosphate-rich desert territory and won from Spain an agreement to divide it between Morocco and Mauritania. 

King plays darts 
MADRID -Spanish King Juan Carolos has taken up darts, standby of British pubs, a spokesman for the royal household said Tuesday. 
Juan Carolos, second cousin to Britain's Queen Elizabeth II, played his first game five years ago while visiting England. He beat Iavid Lawrence Edgar Balls, a London businessman who recently sent a darts set to the king to remind him of the game. 
1======================~====~:::::: National 

US must act now 

WASHINGTON-Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld warned Congress on Tuesday that the United States must act now to reverse a military power shift toward the Soviet Union. 
The secretary said U.S. forces currently are strong enough to balance Soviet strength, but he warned that the Russians have been making substantial gains in nuclear and conventional forces. He urged approval of the Pentagon's record $101.1 billion porposed budget. 

Higher rates if no taxes 
WASHINGTON 1 More tax money will have to support the 
Postal Service or Americans must face continuing increases in mail 
rates, Postmaster General Benjamin F. Failar said yesterday. 
"Unless increased public funding enables us in the near term to slacken the pace of rate increases, we may be caught in a vicious cycle of rate increases to compensate for volume decreases brought on by rate increases,'' Bailar said. 
..........,.._Qn Campus Today---..... 
3:25pm 
3:30pm 
4:30pm 
--seminar, "correlations in catalysis" by prof. john butt, dept chem eng northwestern university, 269 chem eng bldg 
--lecture, "coherent structures 1n turbulent sheer flows" by robert brodkey, dept chem eng ohio state univ. rm 203 eng bldg 
--lecture, "pancreatic deoxyribonuclease" by prof stanford moore, rm 123 niewland 
5 -6:30 pm --pledge drive for fasting, world hunger coalition, 
dining hall lobbies  
6:30pm  --meeting, sailing club, 204 engineering bldg  
7:30pm  --american scene, "dragons"by michael murrin, univ. of chicago,carroll hall  
8 pm  --basketball, depaul at nd, ace arena  

Giancana investigators are 

close to solution of murder 
CHICAGO (AP) -The state's attorney's office said today it has a prime suspect under investigation and may be "very close" to solving the June 19 slaying of reputed mob boss Sam Giancana. 
Giancana was found shot to death in the basement kitchen of his Oak Park clwelling. 
"Things point to one guy who we think did it,'' said investigator. "We are very close to a solution. We have to find one missing link.'' 
He said the missing link was the time factor. The suspect was described as a crime syndicate member who attended a small gathering for Giancana at his suburban home earlier in the evening, authorities said. They said they hope to be able to show 
( -*The Observer ' 
Night Editor: TJm O'Reiley 
Asst. Night Editor: Debbie 
Dahrling 
layout Staff: Paul Schappler, 
Paul Stevenson, Joe Bauer 
Day Editor: Marianne Schulte 
Copy Readers: Ken Bradford, 
Mary Reher 
Editorials: Iim Eder 
Features: Chris Smith 
Sports: Ernie T., Val Zurblis 
Typists: Neil Viii, tvfary 

Celeste, Tom Whalenl Night Controller: Howar) 
~aile , 

that the suspect was inside the house at the time of the crime. 
Two days before the slaying, the 67-year-old Giancana had returned from a H puston hospital after having gall bladder surgery. The gathering at his home was a welcome back party. 
f * 
~ 
: 
~ 
* 
~ 



Games relaxed in lnnsbruck 
INNSBRUCK,.Austria-The Olympic 
Village opened its doors to athletes and Games' officials yesterday, and word spread quickly that visiting rules for men and women competitors aren't nearly so prud­ish as the Austrian hosts initially claimed. 
With the Winter Games' opening ceremony eight days away, Japan­host of the 1972 Sapporo Games raised its flag just ahead of Sweden to become the first nation officially in residence here. 
"Men can't come to our part of the village, but we can go to their quarters. Not bad, huh?" said a pretty Austrian luge racer after a midday visit, with two girlfriends, to the Austrian men's residence. 
Heavily armed Austrian police and soliders guarding the fenced complex only smiled when an attractive blonde walked into the 11-story building where the first 16 British male athletes and 10 team officials had just arrived. 
"There's a recreation center, dan­ce floor, film theater and shops where men and women athletes can visit one another. They shouldn't have to go to men's quarters," village press spokesman Ludwig Stecewicz said. 
But an Austrian woman at the athletes reception desk confirmed that there are no rules against women visiting in the men's dorm­itories. 
"The girls are free to go in as long as the soldier at the door lets them pass," the receptionist said. 
The security-conscious Austrians earlier had reported that athletes from various nations would be forbidden from entering each­other's qurters, and that men and women would be strictly segre­
gated. 
Dressed in navy blue great coats, with matching berets and red, white and blue scarves hanging to their knees, 30 Japanese bobsled­ders and ice hockey players stood to attention as their national hymn was played at the brief ceremony in the mid-village square reserved for flags of the 38 competing nations. 
"We will do all we can to make 
your stay here pleasant and we 
hope you will leave here satisfied.'' 
Olympic Village mayor Hans Jilg 
said in welcome in bright sunlight 
and sub freezing temperatures, 
with the snow-capped Tyrolian 
Alps towering in the background. 
Sweden also raised its flag of sky blue with a yellow cross for its early-arriving 25 luge and bobsled racers. 
Jerry Lace, 39, of New York, the first American _in _th~-village,_ 
The Observer •s published Monday through Friday and weekly during lhe summer !>ession, except during exam!> and vacation periods. The Observer •s published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St Mary's College Subscription!> may be purchased for 10 dollars per semester [ 18 dollars per year I from The Ob server, Box Q, Notre Dame, In diana, 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame. IN 46556. 

·············~······················ 
1 14 Oz. DRAFT· .. ··40~ : MIXED DRINKS ·····SO¢  1i  
:  BOTTLE BEER··  · · ·50¢  !  
*  *  

!THURSDAY " HAPPY HOUR " 5-11 pm. ~ : 7&7's ONLY-----25¢!!!! ~ 
* ~ 
.................................... 


~~t~\B 7 f * 
···~ . ~··· ~ 
BRINGS BACK ~ THE " SUPER SPECIAL " WEEK! ~ * 
MONDAY-THURSDAY: ~ 
praised the residences and said selves in a separate residence," Austrian security precautions a­said the U.S. Olympic Committee gainst political terrorists seemed official. sufficient. He said the U.S. team would ''The Austrians have done a have 121 athletes, 26 trainers and wonderful job. Our men's team coaches and 20 administrators. has its own buidling and our The first U.S. athletes were to 

'ND 
MC 

All~$2.50 
(Std-Fac $2.00) lh:ne: 284-4176 


at Student Union Ticket Office Good for all shows ( weekends too! ) except advertised Special Features Scottsdale, State, &Town &Country. 



Tom McMahon 
General Agent 

Manny Avila Agent 


Karen Wentland Agent 

'DIESAN QUFNDN DRt\MA WORKSHOP Iroductioo of ENDGAME 
by Samlel J3ed(ett 
JANUARY30, 1976 • 8:oo P.M. O'IAlGIIJN Al.UIDRlUM 
(ONE PJ!l«<O~ ONI.¥> 


MOVIE TICKETS 
ONLY $1.50!!l 


'Tearafter vear 
Isentesterafte; 
sentester~~ the 
College Master 
front Fidelit\' 
Union Life lias 
ht~n the rnost 
acceptl'<l" rnost 
popular plan on 
cantpuses all 
o\·er Arnerica. 
Find out why.
. 
Call the 
Fidelin· LJ nion 
('ollt.•gcMaster 
Field Associate 
. 
. 
111 ~·our area: 
1 005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend, Ind. 
Phone 287-2327 
~·~~ .. ;:"'~ . -. 
4/;t,
~
l
( ( )llc~ctvt1stcr
I, 
t ' • • • • 
. 

Wednesday, january 28,1976 the observer· 


Mock stock market opens dealing 
by Jim Hershey Staff Reporter 

The Notre Dame Finance Club's Mock Stock Market will open at 10 
a.m. Feb. 2 in the Hurley Business Building lobby. 
Prize money for the market, which will be open weekdays from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., will be awarded 
after  Feb.  27  when  the  market  
closes.  
Students  and faculty  members  

can open single $10,000 accounts for one dollar or three accounts for two dollars. The speculator with the largest dollar increase over the 
•.ding period will win $100, with SSO and $25 going to the second .tnd third finishers. 
The prizes are being donated by fhomson, McKinnon, Auchincloss and Kohlmeyer, Inc., a South Bend brokerage firm. The firm's dona­tion has allowed an increase in total 'rize money this yer from $85 to 
~75. 

Included in the simulation will be a mock brokerage commission, charged on all purchases. Broker­age fees mostgreatlyaffect investors who participate in many, small transactions. 
A telequote machine will 
provide up-to-date prices on all stocks. Also, each day the previous day's transatction will be posted at the trading booth so each trader will know where he stands. To provide this information, the spon­sors will type out a computer card for each of the day's transactions. Neil Vill and Ted Ursu are the co-chairmen for the Mock Stock Market. "If you go in blindly, you still have a good chance," Vill said. "The guy who won last year knew what he was doing, but anyone can win. What we're really doing is giving people an educational exper­ience without making them spend 
Scientists block rat cancer 

Scientists at Notre Dame's Lo­bund Laboratory have successfully blocked prostate cancer spread in germfree rats. They also have found a way to treat smaH multiple tumors in the lungs. 
Dr. Morris Pollard and his associates have been studying pro­state tumors in aged germfree Wistar rats, which spontaneously develop the same type of prostate cancer which afflicts many middle­Dr. Morris Pollard aged men. They are looking for the causes of prostate tumors, reasons blood or lymphaticas to distant for tumor spread, and methods of organs where they begin to grow treatment. again. Many of the distant organs 

Some cancers--in the breast, are difficult to treat surgically and, intestines, or prostate gland, for to further complicate matters, in instance--often can be treated sur­the new location the cancer often gically because the tumor is acces­shows up as many small lesions sible and can be removed. Surgery rather than a single larger tumor appears to be successful, but like the original. eventually the patient may develop Researchers don't know why cancer in the lungs, liver, brain or cancers spread to other parts of the bones. The problem is metastasis-­body nor why some cancers do not. tumor cells spread through the But at Lobund, Pollard and Drs. 
Brademas charges Ford with hostility to education 
Rep. John Brademas charged House vote Tuesday to override Monday that President Ford's pro­that veto. posal to cut about $1.2 billion from Along with the separate educa­Federal education support next tion appropriations bill, Brademas year "demonstrates the same hos­said, "this measure is the back­tility to education that was current bone of the Federal government's during the years of Richard Nixon. domestic programs,'' including 
Brademas said that Ford's bud­"job training, unemployment assi­get recommendation for fiscal year stance and programs for older 1977 to slash an estimated 15% in Americans." appropriations from comparable In vetoing the bill, Ford objected programs for fiscal year 1976--"to­to the amounts Congress approved tally disregards the drastic impact for such programs as head Start, of inflation on education and marks nutrition for the aging, rehabilita­a retreat from the Federal commit­tion for the handicapped, maternal tment to strengthen education at all and child health care, prevention levels." and treatment of drug abuse, 
A member of the House Educa­alcoholism and mental illness, and tion and Labor Committee and the research on cancer, heart disease chairman of its Select Education and other killing diseases. Subcommittee, Brademas spoke The $36.1 billion measure is only Monday before a meeting of the 2.6 percent over the President's Federal Relations Network of the budget request and is intended to National School Boards Associa­keep those programs funded at tion. current levels instead of suffering 
That disregard for education is the cutbacks Ford proposed. shared by Ronald Reagan, who has "The biiJ provides little more joined Ford ''in a commitment to than the amounts needed to keep slash or eliminate Federal efforts pace with inflation," said Brade­crucial to the lives of )millions of mas. Americans, including programs for "Federal support for these ser­jobs, health, housing and nutrition, vices is crucial and a vote to as wen as education," Brademas override the veto of this important said. money bill is critical," he added. 
Dr. Harvey Bender 

(Photos by Paul Cleve.1ger) Gary Burleson and Chienkuo Chang have used drugs to control tumor spread. 
"We do have evidence now that we can interfere with this metasta­tic spread if immunostimulants-­drugs' which stimulate the body's immune system--are applied early enough," PoHard said. "We also have found drugs which, if given in large enough dosages to germfre(· animals, will so shrink metastatic lung lesions that they are difficult to find.'' 
By controlling tumor spread with drugs, they have been able to extend survival of sick animals at least three times the usual 40 days to 150 days and longer. But, Pollard emphasized, the animals survive the drastic drug treatment without evident discomfort because they live in a sterile environment. The problem in applying the ther­apy to human patients is that the large drug dosage would destroy the body's immune mechanism as well as the cancer. A patient might survice cancer only to die of infection. 
Pollard, who has directed Notre Dame's germfree research labora­tory for 15 years, noted that germfree facilities are being devel­oped in many of the world's large medical centers where infection is recognized as one of the great complications of cancer therapy. A sterile environment also is vital to protect individuals born without an immune system until it can be restored, as well as to protect burn patients, who have lost their natur­
al barrier of skin, from antibiotic-resistant bacteria. 
WE CARRY A 
FULL LINE OF 
VEGETARIAN 
FOOD. 
ENTIRE MENU CAN BE SEEN


SCOTTSDAI.E IWl 
HERE ON FRI.

291-3142 

Brademas, who also serves as chief deputy majority whip in the House, called the attention of the school board members to Ford's veto of the $36.1 billion bill that provides money for the Depart­

Pipes

ments of Labor and HEW and the 
ARCHITECTURAL & MODEL SUPPLIES 


Papers
STRUCTURAL SHAPES BALSA WOOD 


8ol:t 
'-Etc.

HOBBY SHOP IIC. 713 NORTH MAIN ST. 
MISHAWAKA, IND. 
newstand and general store 
money.'' ket theory: ''Theoretically, the 
Ursu noted, "We're really in a best method, on the average and in good position thisyearbecause the the long run, is to keep the same stock market is going up drastical­stock, because the commission eats ly. It could open the door for some away at the account if you make very interesting transactions." many transactions. This is called 
Urus explained some stock mar-the random-walk theory. 
Hearst judge choosing jury as Patty goes to trial 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Patricia reasons. Hearst, flanked by a team of Defense attorneys F. Lee Bailey lawyers and supported by the and Albert Johnson appeared to be family she once denounced, went explaining the proceedings to her on trial Tuesday, Her judge in detail. At times they would refer declared his intention to seat a jury to a largt-notebook containing within two days. information on each of the some 
U.S. District Court Judge Oliver 250 persons summoned for possible 
J. Carter launched jury selection in jury duty. the trial with mass questioning of Lawyers Stewart Herrick and some 120 prospective panelists _ Thomas May sat facing Miss most of whom affirmed their will-Hearst at the defense table, while ingness to presume the jailed in the front row, Miss Hearst's heiress innocent of the bank rob-mother, father and two of her four bery with which she is charged. sisters sat in silence. 
Before court adjourned for the Most of the more than 100 day, some had come forward to reporters on hand for the trial were confess their prejudices, and one not allowed inside for the morning woman admitted that her family session. But by afternoon, enought feared ·"retaliation" if she served potential jurors had been excused on the jury. to allow some spectators and more 
The judge, maintaining a kindly reporters to gain seats. 
attitude toward the group, quickly The defendant's father, still excused anyone expressing even stunned by his daughter's status as the slightest fear that he or she accused felon, said before the start 
might be unfair i~ deciding the of the first day's session that Miss case. A total of 40 persons was Hearst's kidnapers were to blame 
fexc~:;;;;,;~m ~;er;;;l;:~ ~~D j PLUS STEAKS-CHOPS. 
DOROTHY, KITCHEN MANAGER AT THE OLD FRANKIES, NOTRE DAME S HOWARD ST , ALSO PREPARES CHICKEN VESUVIUS EVERY TUESDAY. WE ARE PROUD TO CONTINUE A FINE NOTRE DAME TRADITION AT VALERIE'S. 
BREAKFAST 6am · Mon thru Fri 
7am · Saturday LUNCH llam-3pm DINNER 3pm-9pm Mon thru Fri 
3pm-Spm Saturday Closed Sunday .~

VALERIE'S ~!;~~r~. 
Res-rant 
JJfA 

801 So. lich~an, So. Bend lf~F"'o' 0­
(Next to Gilbert s -289-0681) 0 lilllltd frH Pariin& in Our Let 2 Doors No. on lichican 
: NOTRE DAME WED. FEB. 18th : 
: Athletic and thru • 
: eocv,:~on SUN. FEB. 22nd : 
• + WED. NIGHT SHOW : 
e ABicenttmial C.bration Special • 
• (All TICKETS HALF PRICE) 
• PRICES: e : '3.00 '4.50 '5.50 8 PERFORMANCES : 
All Slits Rt~trYIIII tWED. 8 P.M. e 
112 Price Tid<etS for (All tickets haH price) • 
NO.SMC Students on THIItS. 8:00P.M. e
• These f1erformlnces: FRI. 8:00 P.M. WED. 8:00p.m. SAT. 12:00 • 4:00 • 1:00 e
• THURS. 8:00p.m SUN. 2:00 and 6:00P.M. e SAT. 12:00 noon e SUN. 6:00 p.m. e SHOWS ONLY e 
Tickets on sale: e NOTRE DAME A.C.C. e BOX OFFICE MON.-SAT. 9 to 5 : ROBERTSON'S e 
• 
South &end and Can~ard Mall 
ST. JOE BANK e 
and branches • 
ELKHART TRUTH e FIRST BANK e 
Main offic:e only • 
• 
46544
PHONE 255-IUIJ 

113 "''· monroe st. 
~OCIOOOO~:'»>C)C)C)()CIOOOOOOOOC:>OC)QC~ICCCOC.OCIOI:::IOC:IOC:M:C~ •••.•e ••••••• • 
The Observer 
on independent student newspaper 
Founded Novem~r 3, 1966 

The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. . ~om­mentaries are the views of individual editors. Openeons, cartoons and regular columns express the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and leHers are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Editorials: 283-1715 News: 213-1661 Business: 213·7471 
Business Manager Tom Modglin Advertising Manager Tom Whelan 

Arbitrary Party Rules 

Dear Editor: 
Every year various Administra­tion policies are invariably discus­ed and re-examined. This past
j 
weekend amidst the celebration
• 
after th~ UCLA game, punative measures were imposed on several students for violating University policies on drinking and parti~s. This seems to be an appropnate time to reanalyze the school's stand on these issues. 
It is evident that the University's regulations are wholly . ar~i!rary and reinforced by techmcahtles. For example, the legality of alco­holic consumption in the privacy of a student's room is determined by the size and shape of the container 
from which the beverage is poured. To be more precise, beer in bottles is permissable, while beer in a keg
( 
! 
is strictly taboo. The rationale behind this regulation is ostensibly to deter large parties. This, 
I 
however, leaves one question un­answered. "What is the difference between beer in a keg and an equivalent amount in bottles?" 
Well thought out workable regu­lations regarding parties are sadly 
lacking here at Notre Dame.I Attacking the issue indirectlyI through alcohol policies is extreme­
( 
ly combersome. The solution lies 
I 
in utilizing some of the existing
{ 
~ 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Teny Keeney  Editor-in-Chief  
AI Rutherford  Managing Editor  
Jim Eder  Executive Editor  
Pat Hanifin  Editorial Editor  
Bob Mader  NeiNS Editor  
Maureen Rynn  CalllJUS Editor  
Mary Janca  St. Mary's Editor  
Ken Bradford  Copy Edi1or  
Val Zurblis  Wire Editor  
Tom O'Neil  Features Editor  
Bill Brink  Sports Editor  
Dan Sanchez  Senior Night Editor  

Wednesday, january 28,1976 
P. 0. BoxQ 
regulations and making slight cha­no University mandate will put an nges where weaknesses exist. end to parties here at Notre Dame. 
The University states that con­James A. Kahl
suming alcohol in one's room and parties which are kept behind ~losed doors are permissable. 
Letter Policy

Bearing this in mind, punative 
measures should only be taken when a party is clearly out of control. That is, if many people are loitering in the corridors and obviously disturbing the privacy of other students on the floor. 
The time has come to put an end to the friction that exists between students, rectors, and rector's assi­stants. The issue here should not be kegs, nor should it be parties. The important question is whether we will be reasonable with each other. It seems the only hope for a solution is if we work together and formulate good rules. As unthink­able as it sounds, perhaps students and R.A.'s could even collaborate in organizing parties. Let's face it, 
:::::::J 
~ TH~ AMAZJN(j THIN6 AIJO(JT 
Q) '!He11/HITTI~ Rl/t/Nti tuAS 'THAT

'B 
ITli/A5 50 AfiEAJ) OF 175 T!Mc.'.= ~ I M~ IN l(/4q, /1/HO 
: CA~ABOIJT ~X OH, ~ o [)ISC/liMINATION? fMJIA/•• ... \--­

>C) ~ 
a: 
::J 
tD 
en 
w 
z 
0 
0 
c 
All letters to the editor should be sent to The Observ­er, Editorial Editor, Post Of­fice Box Q or brought to the office of The Observer located on the top floor of the LaFor­tune Student Center. 
Only letters with names and addresses will be considered for print. Signatures will be withheld upon request, but signed letters will be given priority. 
All letters are subject to editing for length and taste, and should be concise as possible. 
,:. ~ A Christian in ROTC? 
( ( 
} 
I was enraged upon reading "A 

I ( Christian in ROTC'', by Stephen K. Judge in the January 21 Observer. Although Mr. Judge clarifies the basic purpose of the program, his further attempts to justify his participation in the light of Christi­
i an morality distort fact and defy 
I ( logic. While presenting the well­known political rationale for maint­enance of the Armed Forces, he dodges the moral issues involved. 
The author's initial point is well taken: that Notre Dame students in ROTC are not war mongers, and that the aim of ROTC is to
j 
''familiarize the officer candidate with the principles of leadership,
{ 
personnel management and the nation's defense policy". Such an education of future officers is, in Mr. Judge's estimation, essential to the preservation of a dem~ratic society as well as to the proper functioning of its military. 
It is important to bear in mind, however, that even if our military leadership is "drawn from a pool of intelligent, sensitive and educated young men and women" , one cannot simply conclude that such status implies an allegiance to Christian ethics. But this discrep­ancy is minor compared to the 
barrage of twisted logic which 
follows to defend an already weak 
argument. 
The author insists that ''very few Christian churches have a consist­ent doctrine on the morality of war". I quite agree: in the past, faith in Christ's love has not been strong enough to include the immediate enemy, considered unr­edeemable by love and thus subject to violence. But does this ambival­ence permit us to endorse war? Emphatically not! The author proc­laims, "Each war has different moral problems attending to it". While this may be true to a certain extent, it is essential to remember that all wars do share one indisput­able moral problem -killing. And to rationalize killing is a serious per version of the life and teaching of Christ. 
To retreat, as Mr. Judge does,. behind the largely misunderstood "just-war theory" has no place in modern society. James Douglass, founder of the Program in Non-vio­lence at Notre Dame, remarked that the just-war theory is "a doctrine whose theoretical purpose has never been to justify war as such but rather to provide those norms by which particular wars could be judged justifiable or not....the just-war doctrine today serves the primary function of condemning as unjust all warfare in the Nuclear Age." 
Next, Mr. Judge infers that because Christ did not stage a verbal assault on the Roman legio­ns, He therefore condoned the existence of a military establishm­ent. The logic behind this mislead­ing insinuation is idiotic. I could think of many things which Christ did NOT say, but such idle specula­tion proves nothing. Besides, in searching for justification of the military, I'm afraid the choice of the Prince of Peace as a proponent leaves much to be desired. 
Furthermore, St. Francis Xavier 

was  neither  a  soldier  nor  the  
founder  of  the  Jesuits,  as  the  
author  erroneously  indicates.  St.  

Ignatius Loyola, after renouncing his years as a soldier in the Spanish Army, founded the order. "Ignati­us' emphasis upon obedience has often givena misguided impression of inflexibility and militaristic reg­ime,'' cites the Catholic Encyclop­edia. "The love from his subjects and the admiration of contemporar­
opinion 
On Fasting 
Barb Robinson 
Today the Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition will again be soliciting support for the Campus Pledge Drive begun last year. 
. Students who wish to fast on Wednesday evenings will be asked to complete a Pledge Drive form and return it at the dining halls or to their dorm representatives. As in the past, the money saved from these meals will be distributed to the poor within our own community and overseas, by voluntary agencies. 
This drive is a concrete means for students to spark and show their concern for millions who lack the basic requirements for a humane and dignified existence. Money is essential to help these millions. 
But for many who participate in this drive, it is not an end in itself. It is only a first step. Our temporary hunger can direct our attention to the permanent hunger of millions of other people. It can prod us to stand against the global injustice that is the root of mass starvation. 
The figures on maldistribution ar jolting at best. As individuals we often find ourselves so overwhelmed by famine, drought, massive starvation, that we despair or allow ourselves to become ~ paralysed and unable to work for change. Undoubtedly, our easiest choice is to give up, to claim that this is a hopeless struggle and that no individual can affect the institutions and patterns that need to be changed. 
Perhaps at this point we are the ones who stand in greatest need. The questions and complexities of global development can all too readily be dismissed, forgotten, exchanged for the more "pressing" problems of ur everyday lives. We have choices before us, however. We have an opportunity to fast for a short time each week within a community of other caring persons. If we so choose, that time can give us a commitment to live out our concern for those 
·,
lacking the freedom to make such decisions. 
It can become a means of sensitizing ourselves to poverty we have I never experienced. For those who have worked in underdeveloped areas images of children lethargic from malnutrition remain vivid. The ;tark reality of insufficient food (!nd medicine are not easily forgotten. Still, one seeks to forget such disturbing memories. But starvation wi II not go away if we turn away. We need to be reminded and to participate in some act of fidelity to those experiences. 
In starting this Pledge Drive, the Coalition is not contending that fasting, by itself, will cure global inequality. But it helps us realize the suffering of a distant world. Hopefully, we will understand that our own patterns of consumption do in fact bear some relationship to the resources others have to live free from want. 
The present world food situation and maldistribution are not crises. They are more alarming than that. They are permanent conditions--unless we as individuals make certain choices in our own lives and find ways to act on those decisions. 
\ OH,He'/... 

t!STCN TO Me I THINK OOWN, BABBLe AWAY-YOV~ OH•. UM .. JOAN, Yat Pf?OBABlY BeiWTIFUL.. f)()WN! THINK. I'M... ) I 0 
!TI' (1 I 
•
• A Rebuttal 
ies...prove such a view unjustifi­ed.'' To declare, as Mr. Judge does, that the Society of Jesus was "founded on military principles" is inept and crude. 
Not content to let his alleged case rest, after a brutal torture of reason that would make a logician cringe, the author proceeds to take potshots at those who ''pass them­selves off as firm believers in non-violence". In exposing the ''shallow dishonesty'' of these hypocrites, whose ''reasoning is more political than moral'', Mr. Judge conveniently skirts the very real problem of confronting a truly non-violent stance. · 
Mr. Judge's apparent distaste for war (which he finds "about as appealing as a case of tuberculos­is") might seem commendable, except for the fact that he implicitly endorses it. For in perceiving war as "the most desperate sort of diplomacy", he admits that it remains a viable, albeit desperate, course of action. This. is hardly a Christ-like attitude. If I may borrow one of Mr. Judge's more enlighte­ned comments, it is obvious that his ''reasoning is more political than moral." More precisely, he 
Edward Small 
parrots national defense policy rationale while his argument gasps hopelessly for air, lacking any moral validity. 
To "hope" for world peace, as the author does in his conclusion, a peace "which should be the life's work and prayer of every Notre Dame graduate", may appear well­intentioned. But to then assert that "Until that day comes, we must deal with the world on its own terms" is contradictory, hypocriti­cal and disgusting. By supporting an establishment which counters violence with violence, which main­tains and perpetuates the very problems he purportedly hopes will be solved, the author displays an acute lack of reflection, as well as a dearth of moral sensitivity. The lyrics of a Mose Allison song "Everybody's Cryin' Mercy" help to illustrate Mr. Judge's confusion: 
Well, you know, the people running round in circles 
don't know what they're headed 
for;  ·  
Everybody's cryin',  "Peace  on  
Earth!  

just as soon as we win this war.'' 


--------, 
Wednesday, january 28, 1976 the observer 
5 Part I
Let's go... 

Soph Lit Tid-bit Teasers 
Match each description below with the names at left and learn more 
about the authors who wiU be appearing at the Sophomore Uterary 
Festival, February 15-21. 
Jorge Borges John Gardner 


Louis Simpson May Sarton Robt. Penn Warren Galway Kinnell 

l. This author has an extensive "hate list." which includes the state of California, large audiences at readings and the editorial staff of The New Yorker (which has published several of his poems). 
2. 
This author was once jailed for Civil Rights activities in Selma, Alabama. 

3. 
This author attended Washington University in St. Louis, where he fancied himself to be a 


poet-destined-to-die-tragically-at-a-young-age.  In.  
stead, he became a noted medievalist.  
J;)upJ11D uqor  

"f II;)UU!)I A11M(119 ·z uosdw!s s!n<YJ ·t :!i.laM.suv 

''An Almost Chosen People'' seems like a very cynical title for a bi-centennial art show. It is a deliberately ambigous choice (taken from a sppech by Abraham Lincoln) and reflects some of the unique aspects of America's growth. By thinking ourselves immune from the passage of time and history, we deny the inevitability of a fall. Because we believe so strongly in our own immortality, we are almost chosen. Also implied in this quote is the misuse of potentials and resources. We had all the potential to be really great, but something still went wrong, and we missed the mark in the end. For a more positive view of this statement,. Profes$or Ronald Weber says, "Well, at least we were in the running." 
The current exhibit in the Notre Dame Gallery, running from now until March 21, does not force itself on the viewer because the objectives of the artists are extremely diverse. Since either a positive or negative atitude can be drawn from the show, Dean Porter, the Gallery Director, would like the viewer to decide for himself. When looking at America through the eyes of several of its artists, one will find striking contrasts Some American artists are grotesquely cynical, while others indulge in the practice of over-sentimentality. Certain patterns, however, do emerge. Five divisions in the current show can roughly be assigned to the pieces. Wars, the Frontier, rural and urban life and leisure or play. Even within these catagories, both positive and nega­tive statements of the respective artists reveal themselves. 
War is an aspect of history which is treated by artists of all countries. As many different opinions on the war arise in the nation, so too, the art concerning it will express radically different standpoints. Monuments and commemorative paintings will be done to praise the leaders and glorify the great battles. The portrait of General Sherman exemplifies his great capacity for leadership, but then not all American artists take such pride in the wars of their countries. In a subdu~d opposition to violence, an oil by Scott portrays peace and beauty in the raising of the flag of truce. Oddly enough, the only expression of the real brutality of war is an Indian wall hanging done in 1840. The Indian artists portrayed themselves as 

most......... . 
methodically destroying each other with guns and horses, both gifts of the original white settlers in North America. 
One of the most powerful pieces in the show, this Indian Wall hanging provides an ironic contrast with "The World was All Before Them'' by Russell. Done around 1900, this work depicts the frontiersmen of about 80 years before. Purple sunrise glows mystically in the background as the men gaze piercingly Westward. This historical event took place before the wall-hanging was done. What practically became a great empire in North America, was brutally wrenched from the Indians so the prophecy of Manifest Destiny could be fulfilled.. Also hanging in this section, are two photographs of Ansel Adams. These photos of untouched land in America lament its loss and destruction, yet point out its beauty and grandeur. 
Moving from the frontier to the rural areas, we can still see a great division of the treatment of the various subjects. Rothstein's "Dust Bowl" shows the plight of the Oklahoma sharecroppers during the dust storms of the 1930's. It is a bleak photograph of the Depression and the natural disaster which caused destruction to many Americans. Hanging nearby is another portrayal of American rural life. Farm boys plough the fields in an atmosphere of peace and abundance. 
As the move from the rural areas to the cities took place, life became much more complex and fast moving. Cynical views of the entr~pment of urban life are obvious in many of the works dealing with existence in the city. A photograph of a polluted factory at sunrise shows the oppressive implications of mechanization, a garish lithograph of a prospective pick-up,"One and.One" by Lindner, reflects the isolation and cynicism which breeds in the city. Lonelinessand isolation in the city are also treated by Edward Hopper in his etching, "Night Shadows." Other urban artists, however, show a positive side to this theme by finding and pointing out aesthetic beauty in the technological aspects of the city. A Standard station (with olive) and a neon sign, "HOT" become objects for artistic appreciation. Even the human form can become an object purely for its aesthetic qualities. This is shown in "Falling Man Variant", a serigraph by Trova, which depicts a cyclic progression of figures. 
The final section of leisure and play expresses a concern for the personal lives of the subjects. Children swirl around in a blur of color in an oil by Potthast, and play crack the whip in one of Winslow Homer's etchings. "Newport Beach" captures a moment of peace by the ocean; a lone figure fishes on the shore. These glimpses into the private lives of the subjects demonstrate their ability to find pleasure and relaxation in any environment. It is not a function of rural or urban, or of wartime or peacetime. The search for pleasure and solitude is an essential part of existance, and the concentration on child­ren as subjects of these works implies a direct hope for the future. As the phrase, "An Almost Chosen People" can refer to a process of time, it can also imply that, although we are not the chosen ones, our children will be. 
Maria 0 'Meara 
EDITOR'S NOTE: This is the first part of a tri-partite article by Kathy Mills, Observer Staff Reporter. In this series, we shall examine the situation and phllosopby of drinking at Notre Dame. . 
Let's go out drinking tonight." 
How often does this suggestion come up 
when students are looking for something to 
do on a Friday or a Saturday or even a 
weekday night? How often do students go 
to beer parties and drink for the entire 
evening? Surveys on U.S. college campus­
es report that between 71 and 96 percent of 
college students drink. 
"The amount of drinking at Notre Dame 
is getting higher and higher,'' stated 
Margaret Barnum. Barnum was recently 
hired to work in the Psychological Services 
Center with alcohol and drug problems on 
campus. 

"The whole setting is ideal for heavy 
drinking," she pointed out. "The amount 
of other things to do isn't all that great." 
"I've noticed an increase in drinking 
problems lately," said Father Terrence 
Lally, assistant vice-president for student 
affairs. "More people are drinking now; 
our revenue at Senior Bar tells us that," he 
added. 

Lally attributed the increase in student 
drinking to greater academic_ pressures. 
"Students don't know how to relax," he 
explained, ''and drinking is a way to wipe 
away the strain." Barnum also said 
drinking is involved with academic .pre~: 
sureas well as the lack of "other things to 
do." 

"I have a feeling that there is much more 
heavy drinking that is quietly tolerated 
here," Barnum stated. "I would guess it 
would be more than one out of ten at Notre 
Dame who will have a drinking problem; 
over ten to 15 percent are heavy drinkers." 
Maggie Waltman, cocktail waitress at the local bar Fat Wally's, said the bar is crowded when she works on Monday nights. The crowd comes because F~t Wally's has a giant television screen for Monday Night Football she explained. Waltman also works on ithursday nights. "Fat Wally's is "slow" then, she said. 
Senior Bar, the on-campus bar which is open Wednesday through Saturday nights, has its largest crowd on Wednesday nights, according to Betsy Kall, who tends bar there. Kall added the bar "tends to get crowded later at night" on the weekends. The Thursday night crowd is "better than the weekends," she said. 
...drinking 
Tom Conaty, one ofthe bartenders at the "student bar" Nickie's, said the bar gets "really crowded" on Thursday nights. He noted Nickie's also has a crowd on Monday nights for Monday Night Football and on Friday and Saturday nights after 11 p.m. Many students also go to Nickie's on Wednesday nights after Senior Bar closes, Conaty added. Senior Bar closes at 2 a.m. while Nickie's is open until 3 a.m. 

The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) defines a prob­lem drinker as "one who drinks enough to cause trouble for himself and society." 
According to the NIAAA, about ten percent of the 95 million Americans who drink are problem drinkers or full-fledged alcoholics. The-Rutgers University Center of Alcohol Studies defines an alcoholic as "one who is unable consistently to choose whether he shall drink or not, and who, if he drinks, is unable consistently to choose 
whether he shall stop or not." 
Delegates to the alcohol conference held in November at Notre Dame which involved 62 colleges recognized that in­creased use of alcohol among students is a problem. 
As the April 22, 1974 issue of Time magazine noted, alcoholism is the coun­trty's biggest health problem after heart disease and cancer. An alcoholic's life span is shortened by 10 to 12 years. Ac­cording to the August, 1974, Reader's Digest, alcoholic liver disease, especially cirrhosis, is one of the world's chief public health problems. In large U.S. cities, cirrhosis is the fourth-leading cause of death for people between the ages of 24 and 45. 
Reader's Digest also noted recent animal 
research has shown alcohol can do profound, long-term harm to mental pro­cesses. The mental troubles of alcoholics had long been attributed wholly or partly to malnutrition, but the experiment's results were achieved with •excellent diet for the animals. 
Also, Time said at least one-half of 55,000 auto deaths that occur in the U.S. each year and one-half of the one million major injuries resulting from auto acci­dents can be linked directly to a driver or a pedestrian who was "under the influence" of alcohol. Many of the deaths and injuries are caused by those in the under-21 age group, Time pointed out, and arrests of young people for drunken driving have soared since states began lowering the legal drinking age from 21. For example, in the year after Michigan lowered its legal drinking age, the state reported an increase of 141 percent in such arrests. 
Finally, alcohol misuse and alcoholism cost the American people approximately $25 billion each year in lost production, health and medical costs, property damage and welfare and criminal justice costs, according to Alcohol and Health; New Knowledge, published by the U.S. Depart­ment of Health, Education and Welfare. 
Kathy Mills 
\ 

the observer Wednesday, january 28,1976
6 

,.... 
'\ by Mary Rathburn Staff Reporter 
Speaking to 60 graduate students last night in the Administration Building, Director of the Notre Dame Placement Bureau Richard Willemin discussed the declining academic market and the Bureau's services. Willemin stressed that despite the scarcity of academic careers ''there are always jobs out there." For students intent on teaching careers, the Center offers a dossier service. After the student has prepared his or her dossier (academic record and letters of recommendation), it is sent to any potential employer on 24 hours notice. 
For the student who pursues a non-academic career, the Place­ment Bureau issues weekly annou­ncements of job openings and interviews on campus. 
Willemin urged graduate stu-

FAA baggage device tested 
W ASIDNGTON (AP) -The Fed­eral Aviation Administration plans to test new equipment capable of locating explosives inside baggage at several airports in the near future, administrator John. L. Mc­Lucas said Tuesday. 
McLucas told a news conference the equipment currently is being modified and probably will be in place at the selected airports within two to three months. 
If the tests prove successful, the FAA may require all major airports to install the equipment, McLucas 

·~ said. · 
l I 
\ 
1., 
I 
,. 
\ 
\ ' 
~ 
·~ 
( 
I 
,-I 
'• 
\ 
( 
' 
l 
( 
' 
J 
1 ~ 
J 
Willemin speaks on declining academic market 
Are you ruining your valuable records? 
Find out at The Sound Room·s Free Changer and Cartridge Clinic 
Bring your record changer or turntable to The Sound Room's Free Changer and Cartridge Clinic and have it checked out. The performance of your turntable will be charted, your stylus Inspected, and your tone arm calibrated and properly tracked. All these tests and services will be performed without charge and you will receive a chart of your units performance. 
dents intent on teaching careers to pressure departments and advisors to send letters to colleagues in other universities for job contacts . 
He advised them to attend professional meetings in their fields. He cited booklets of resumes made up by the English and Government departments sent to colleges and universities as useful in stirring up interest. 
Though reevaluating career choices is a traumatic step, Wil­lemin encouraged students who decide on business careers instead of academic to "go 100 percent in that direction.'' If the potential employer senses hesitation, "you won't get a nibble," Willemin said. 
Training a new employee is too costly to risk on a person who will return to teaching at the first chance. 
The Director advised: avoid dis­couragement, take stock of your skills, intelligence, problem solving and communication abilities. Sign up for interview spots that are not filled, even though your degree is not specifically called for by that 
company . 
The Placement Bureau provides 

~ir Richard's 
BARBER STYLING 


UNISEX HAIR SDLING 129 DIXIEWAY SOUTH ROSELAND 
IN PORTAGE REALn BUILDING 277..0734 

employer literature, facts about companies that will be interviewing applicants. "Don't go to an interview without knowing some­thing about the company," he stressed. 
Willemin's presentation was fol­lowed by brief talks by Larry Carlson of Northwestern Mutual Insurance and Jim O'Donnell of Northern Trust of Chicago. Both recruiters urged liberal arts gradu­ates to consider financial fields such as insurance and banking. 
O'Donnell pointed out that 40 to SO percent of his bank's new employ­ees are liberal arts graduates, many of whom have advanced degrees. O'Donnell echoed Wille­min, "There are jobs out there. You have to be aggressive." 
The Placement Bureau and the Graduate Student Union will spon­sor a series of workshops on jobs every Wednesday at noon, begin­ning Feb. 4 in the Advanced Students Lounge, 2nd floor LaFor­tune. 
IS YOUR CAR INSURANCE 
TOO HIGH??? TRY OURS 
Gerry Conway 
First Equity Insurance 256-0263 or 277-1964 LIFE-HEALTH -AUTO -FIRE NO '68 




Friday Jan. 30th Saturday Jan. 31st 
Qon't ruin your records. Attend this once a year clinic. 
KALAMAZOO I GRAND RAPIDS I SOUTH BEND 
Noon-8 p.m. Noon-6 p.m. 

CJ) PIONEER~ 
Turntable Special 
During our clinic week. Stop in and save. 
( ~~~~~~~SOUTH BEND: 52578 US 31 NORTH/277-1515 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
r 

' j 
Wednesday, january 28,1976 the observer 
7 
Tracksters face wolverines, falcons '· 
Coming off an impressive trian­Wolverine sophomore Mike McGu­Notre Dame's forte also happens gular triumph over the University ire earned All-America laurels as a to be its long and middle distance freshman while teammates Bill
of Illinois at Chicago Circle and runners led by senior co-captain DePaul, the Notre Dame track team Donakowski and Greg Meyer gain­Jim Hurt, winner of the two-mile in will begin its road schedule this ed similar status through their Notre Dame's first meet. He will be weekend. They will travel to Ann performances on the cross-country joined by freshman Steve Welch 
Arbor, Mich., Saturday to meet the team last fall. The Falcons also who will be competing for the first host Wolverines and Bowling Gre­have good depth in the distance time this year. In last year's clash events led by another All-Americ­
en. Starting time has been set for 4 at Ann Arbor, Notre Dame's Jim 
p.m. Reinhart emerged victorious in the 
an in Tim Zumbaugh. Bowling 
mile event with a strong showing of The Fighting Irish will have their Green's distance team is the same 4:08. He also won last week's mile hands full with the excellent middle one that produced 1972 Olympic run beating out teammate Joe 
gold medalist Dave Wottle.
and distance crew of Michigan. Yates, a senior also making the trip 
Wrestlers hindered by injuries 
The wrestlers of Fighting Irish coach Ray Sepeta were on the road last week, but injuries kept the Irish from exploiting fine showings from Rob Dreger (177), Dave Boyer 
(158) and Bob Golic (HWT). Dan Heffernan (134), Pat McKillen 
(150) and Joe Pszeracki (190) were all left in South Bend as the Irish were defeated twice, 30-6 by Cleveland State and 32-14 by Slippery Rock State. Heffernan, McKillen and Pszeracki were aU injured in practice during the week. 
Dreger, a sophomore, is sporting a 9-4 record as he tallied a decision at Cleveland State and a pin at 
'"'' Slippery Rock. Boyer, who set the 
Notre Dame career victories mark a couple of weeks ago, ran his record to 3-2 with a superior decision at Slippery Rock State, having drop­
sw•lmmerS take to the road pedacloselycontesteddecisionin
Cleveland. Golic, a freshman who joined the team just two weeks ago, ran his season's mark to 4-0, 
Notre Dame's swimming team Boyd, a backstroker, and Larry notching a superior and regular packs their bags this week as they Christiansen, a butterflier, will decision in his two bouts. head into a two-game road trip round out the scoring threat for The team will be in action this against Oakland and Wayne State. Oakland. week as they will entertain Drake Both teams finished ahead of the Then on Saturday afternoon the Thursday evening at 7:30 in the Irish in a preseason tourney and Irish tangle with Wayne State. ACC's auxiliary gym. The Irish will this weekend will be a test of how Wayne State also finished ahead of be hoping to break the Bulldogs' 

far Coach Dennis Stark's swimmers· Notre Dame in the Notre Dame dominance of the series which has 
have come along. Relays andean not be slighted by seen Drake capture all six meetings Friday afternoon Notre Dame the Irish tankers. between the two squads. 
jumped out to a quick lead with a 
victory in the 400-yard medley 
relay. Then on the strength of Jim : iiJJrt <!lolunial : 
Severyn and the Fitzsimons brothe­. " .' 
rs, Ed and Rick, Notre Dame found ' 
:Jancakt -oust '-.:.._ _ :
themselves further ahead. Unfortunately this lead was shor­
tlived as Bowling Green roared : EVERY WEDNESDAY & FRIDAY ~ : 
back by dominating the next three 
• PERCH DINNERS •
events. By the time Ed Fitzsimons 
could capture his second victory of •• ( All YOU CAN EAT ) •• 
the day it was too late for the Irish. Friday afternoon Notre Dame 
$ ~A •
will be at Oakland for the stop on • 1. 95 ~ • the trip. The Irish will have to be mindful of Oakland's Paul Karas, a 
: INCLUDES CHOICE OF POTATO, :
distance freestyler who took two firsts in last year's meet. Tom • SALAD , AND ROLL • 
Observer Classi 
WANTED LDST& R>UND

Need 2 Marquette Student tix. AI 
I need G. A. Marquette tickets. carr 3388,1715 LDst: Friday, Gold Bulova watdl; GoldPat 1654. 
Bane!. Reward Joe 1188.
Desperately need ride to Milwaukee Need Maryland & Marquette Tickets; Fri. Jan. 30, call 1956 after 10p.rn 
Found: White Cat--on Carr-pus. Call carr Henry 272-5133. 
234-3892.
Grad Students need rool'll'l'late, rent Need one ticket to Maryland game; dleapCall 232-1861. 
NOTICES

Call Ann 8803. 
Greyhound Bus to Chicago. Leaves Main
Need 4 Maryland tickets, carr Ron Need tix for Maryland 8386. 
Circle every Friday at 5:45. carr Toms8917. 
at 8338.
Desperately need 2 Maryland tickets. Need 2 Maryland or Davidson tickets for Call 272-6086 after 6P.M. 
Need a tune-up? You buy the parts_
a job next yr.. 
I will install plugs, points, condenser and
Please call Mike 1438. Will pay big rroney for Marquette set timing for $8. call Bob 8610.
tickets. Call Mike 8720. Need 2 Marquette tickets, student or 
Desperately need 5 Marquette tix_ cau
G.A. call Julie 4-4456. Management Trainee Eileen 6798.
To$14,000 Second Semester Senior looking for a 
The album hour is here. Usten to
reasonably good paying job. Available Ready for a new career? We are WSN0-640 AM for details.
all day /Vton., Wed., Fri., & weekends. interviewing tor a l'l"a'laQerrent training Call Howard at 234-8952. program that will allow you to eam 
MORRISSEY LDAN $20-$150, 1 day
$25,000 or rrore in 5 years 'Attile 
~it. 1 percent interest. LaFor1une,
Three or tour basketball tickets any representing our top team of finandal M-F, 11:15-12:15.
SATURDAY GAME call Tom 1044_ specialists in EQuities, Insurance, f./crt­gages arrd Tax Shelters. Send oyour 
ACOJrate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho
Desperately need Marquette tickets. resume to: 
232-0746. 
call Sheila, 8135. Charles M. Ne.Wanks 120 W. LaSalle SUite 906 
Gay Corrrrunity of Notre Came, Inform.
Desperately need 4 Non-studemt tickets SOUth Bend, IN 46601 TION: to Villanova. call Larry 283-1791. 
P.O. Box 206, Notre Dame, lnd 46556
Need atickets tor Maryland. carr Joe Must have 5 GA fix, Ally Saturday at 287-5113. 
IBM selectric II typing. Manusaipts,
Game. ca11 Terry, 1609. 
Dissertations, Experiena!d. 289-5193.
Need 2 GA tix to Maryland. call7471. 
HOUSEMATE WANTED: 1124 CORBY; 
NO iMC Council for the Retarded. 
$75 MONTH, PLUS UTIUnES. Need ride to Madison !WiSCDnsin, that 
Dance
is),any weekend. call 7906.
CAU. 288-8417. 
Wed. nite 7:JO_ Questions, Tom Harbin 287-6673 or Kathy McGlynn 288-4315. 
north. Notre Dame coach Joe Piane jump. Wills won his event in the is also looking forward to receiving same meet last year. strong performances from ·Chuck Saturday's meet begins a stretch Wills in the high hurdles, Jim offive weeks when the Irish will be O'Brien in the 600, Mike Hogan away from home. Their next home and George Matteo in the pole meet is slated for March 6 at the 
raul! and Tim iHmERgAGRAN~ 
For mixed vitamin deficiencies 


,;irfJt~J=· 
Recommended by more physicians and pharmacists than ar.y other high potency vitamin formula 
MAR-MAIN PHARMACY 426 N. MICHIGAN (NEXT TO McDONALD'S) 
234-3184 
®

SQulBB 'The Pnceles~ 1ngred1ent of every product rs the honor and mtegnty of 1ts maker:,.. 
rL-CM@NGzE~~;~;~;----: 
t CAMERA WITH 50 mm f 2.0 I 
' CHINON LENS AND 
I 
t CAMERACASE I LIST PRICE t
t t 
,, $239.50 t ' AULTS ~ SPECIAL PRICE tt 
t $164.95 CASH I
I Ault Camera Co. , 
tT.!·~;~~"~--s~t~B~~-~~·}.!~_t-
Fine German Food and Draft Beer 
Hans tfr;t:Seciali 
2803 South Michigan Street-Phone 291-552 
German FOQCI Our Specialty 

Created with Old World Atmosphere. Specializing in German and American Foods. 
• Sot,lth Bend's Finest Benquet RoorN 
The Alpine & Bllvari.n Rooms Open 10:30 a.m. to 10:30 o.m.-Closed Sundays and Holidays 
FOR SALE 

3 G. A. Marquette Tickets. Reasonable price. Call Bill 1222_ 
Dolomite Ski Boots, Size 9. USed one season. Calll924. 
1973 Mustang Grande, Air, R:M.e-, Stereo Tape, one 0111111er, Unden;x)ated, 33,000 miles, No nJSt. carr 234-1372 
after 5p.m 
12-String guitar, goeJ oondition. call Usa, 8089. 
FOR RENT 

None today......... 
PERSONALS 

Admirer: Tbanks for the terTarium. You've got me sturf1*i. 
Sacrament of <Xlnfirrration. If oyou haven't been oonfinned, and wish to be, CXlfltact can-pus Ministry in Ubrary (6536) and ask about CDnfirmation program 
Juniors! Dealers and nnney holden are needed for the dass Ma-di Gras booth. Interested? call Rob (3610) or Ken (3342). 
MOCK STOCK MARKET-Feb. 2 thru 
Feb. 27. Old Business Bldg., lOa.m. ­lp.m. Mon. thru Fri.. Win $100, $50, $25. Sponsored by N.D. Finance Club. 
Remenf:.\er that Disatrous prom? 
"I thought she said'dart< blue' and rented a purple tux •• she said 'chart­reuse'." "I ordered a dozen roses and they sent me a cactus plant." 'I was fixed up with a friend of a friend of a friend who turned to be mv cousin." "She looked like Frazier did after the 
Ali fight.II "I didn't look mudl better." "You say you wanna hear a real story·· ask me, Joe-Bill-Bob-Boy Graif." 
Avm Disaster Box Q Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
To Our MiJI:1 on the Inside: Well, Ter, Is it an epidemic? Staff Infection 
Kate, The "bare" facts are irresistable. Soon things will be in Black and White. 
L.oYe, Willie 
For food just like Senora Pancho Villa used to rreke, stop in to TACO RICO Scottsdale Mall, next to the theatre. 
Classified Ads 
get results. 

.. 

r the observer Wednesday, january 28,1976
8 

ND to confront DePaul's ire tonight 
'' 
Toby Knight came alive versus UCLA. The Irish hope to out-muscle the Blue Demons tonight at the ACC. 
by Ernie Torrlero ing the trio the best box office attraction since the Marx Brothers. Notre Dame and DePaul will Ifyou believe that it is a bunch of 

meet toflight for the 60th time horse feathers, just ask Digger renewing a religious vendetta­Phelps. "DePaul plays well toge­which has been aired at least once a ther up front," he concurs. "They season since the days of the second really know how to help each other World War. Game time is at 8:00 out. If we are to win, we must 
P.M. in the ACC and it is a sellout. 

control the boards with our size.'' ''The DePaul basketball program Notre Dame's Dave Batton cer­has been on the rise the past few tainly figures to have his hands full years,'' explains Notre Dame coach with the likes of sophomore pivot­Digger Phelps. "They are getting man Dave Corzine. Corzine gave back to the type of program which the Irish fits last year pulling down once made them a powerhouse in 18 rebounds in the 75-70 DePaul \ ) . ( the early sixties." upset victory. Always a colorful Up until a few games ago Phelps performer, the 6-11 Corzine, who
'I ~ 
was correct about the newly found measures 7-2 if you include his fortunes of Blue Demon basketball. Afro hair style, has scored 14.1 But the path of success recently points-per-game while leading the 
-( has taken a detour, as DePaul has team in rebounds with 125. lost three of the last four games. Aggressive sophomore Joe Pon­Overall, the Blue Demons are 11-5 setto is DePaul's second leading and are very much alive in the p-oint getter with an 18.1 average. battle for an at-large NCAA berth. The 6-7, 220 pound Ponsetto is 
Junior guard Ron Norwood is the known for his vocal presence and is catalyst of the DePaul offense. The best remembered in Chicago cir­versatile, 6-4, 180 pound Norwood cles for leading Proviso East to the played at forward last season Illinois State crown in 1974. where he averaged 14.3 points per Andy Pancratz, once a teammate contest. This year the transfer of Corzine in high school. is the from Providence, by way of Essex only senior on the squad. A heady County Junior College, is pumping performer, the 6-9, 230 pound in just over 19 points a game. Pancratz has been averaging just 
"Norwood is as good as any under 10 points per game. player we have seen," Phel?s ''We expect to see a zone from explains. "He is smooth, quick., DePaul," Phelps added. "DePaul and really a spark plug to that is always well-coached and we DePaul squad." expect to see some good execution 

When the spark plug is connect­on their part." ed to the Blue Demon front line To say DePaul is well coached is then the hook-up makes for the an understatement. For Ray best DePaul offensive attack since Meyer has been as much a part of the days of Emmette Bryant. In the the DePaul legend as the Vincen­center slot a guy named Corzine tian Fathers who founded the plays straight man to two forwards place. The former Notre Dame star named Pancratz and Ponsetto rna~-of the late 30's has been at the 

'. 
' '· 
' ' 
Student Managers
' _.( 
' I 
. • ) i 
' 
I 

Freshmen entering Notre Dame are special people. One look at their
' { 
high school records show that some were valedictorians, some class
' 
officers, others the editors of school newspapers and yearbooks, or the 
captain of a varsity sport. When they come to Notre Dame, they want to build on their talents. While only a small part of their education takes place in the classroom, they want to explore the larger part of their education, the extracurricular activities at Notre Dame. They see four years spent' in the dorm as a waste of time and money. Notre Dame is blessed with a wide range of activities for all different interests. Student n~anaging is one of these activities. 
Many people have preconceived notions about managers--those short, weak waterboys who carry dummies during practice and always have a football on them. Well, that's part of the manager's job, but not nearly all of it. Next to the basketball office in the ACC is the student managers' office. In that office managers keep records and files about all the athletes, in case they're needed by a coach or sports information. The managers prepare all the paperwork and accounting for every game. 
Managers. work not only with coaches but also with the athletic business directors. College sports today is big business and student managing has had to adjust to meet the increasing demands. It is an education in itself to see the efficiency of a modern athletic 
r 

r, department. dI To most, the image of a manager is limited to football. The Notre ' \ Dame Student Manager's Organization works with all varsity sports, 
including basketball, hockey, wrestling, fencing, tennis, swimming, track, cross-country, and baseball. A manager gets a well-rounded view of all these different teams. Working these different sports provides a change of pace for those managers who may prefer to work hockey or basketball. This too is part of a manager's education. 
Managing is hard work which many times seems to interfere with the ability to survive .in the classroom. The long hours are just another part of the manager's education, a lesson .. in self-discipline. Class, studying. and managing must be scheduled and arranged to fit into 
/ one day. Sophomore managers prepare equipment on Thursday nights 
I 
for away football games; they know well that studying for a quiz Friday 
must be done on Wednesday. \ The manager's creed is very simple: "We expect 100% from 100% ( of our managers 100% of the time". Hustle--that's what managing is ( all about. Managers have to be on their toes all the time to be on the 
lookout for anything, whether it be a missing uniform or a missing player. Some days it is tough to hustle, but those are the days hustle is / I ' needed the most. The coaches and players constantly depend on the managers at a moments notice. One slip could make matters difficult for everyone. The coaches and players respect the managers for their 
' 
hustle and the only way to maintain that respect is by more of that same hustle. 
Right now we are in the midst of a recruiting drive for freshmen managers. The work is there, but so are the rewards. If you're interested in becoming a student manager now is the time to get involved. There will be a meeting on Sunday, February 1 at 6:30pm in the auditorium of the ACC for all prospective freshmen managers. Please bring a pen or pencil and your class sche~ule 
f" 
< 
( 
' 
Chicagoland school since the days 
of World War II. His 520 victories 
in 35 years at DePaul makes him 
the winningest active basketball 
coach. 

The Irish and DePaul have met at 
least once a season since Meyer 
took over as the head man of the 
Blue Demons. Over the span the 
Irish have won 35 and lost 22. 
Notre Dame has won nine of the 
last ten meetings. 

Last year Phelps' and crew were 
stung by DePaul, 75-70, before an 
overflow crowd of almost 6,000 in 
the cozy confines of Alumni Hall. 
Adrian Dantley had 19 points and 
13 rebounds in a losing cause. 
The DePaul victory touched off a 
bit of furor and controversy when 
the NCAA Tournament Committee 
chose the 18-8 Irish for an at-large 
berth and left the 16-9 Blue 
Demons to contemplate about the 
future. 

The Blue Demons might catch 
the 11-3 Irish ripe for upset once 
more. For DePaul has found itself 
sandwiched in between the form~­
dible basketball powers of Mary­
land and UCLA in the Notre Dame 
schedule. It is conceivable DePaul 
might find the tenth ranked Irish 
either coming down off of the b1g 
UCLA win or keying up for the 
Maryland game. 

"We realize," Phelps concludes, ''that this is a big week for Notre Dame basketball. We played real well against UCLA, now we must keep up that sort of tempo versus DePaul. We must be very careful to take one game at a time.'' 
Due to conflict of interest, Chan­
nel 16 will not air tonight's game. 
Ski trip planned on February 6-8 
A ski trip to Crystal Mountain, Michigan, sponsored by Student Union, has been arranged for Feb. 6-8. 
The cost of the trip is $37. This includes lift tickets Friday night through Sunday, Saturday break­fast and dinner, live entertainment at night and two nights lodging. Weekend ski rentals cost $13-$14. 
Skiers will be accommodated at either Frankfort or Thompson con­dominiums, with four persons to a 
room 

Transportation must be arranged by the skiers. By car, it takes about six hours to reach Crystal Moun­tain. 
A $10 deposit must be paid by Friday, Jan. 30. Reservations and deposits will be taken until Friday, from 11-4 at the Student Union Ticket Office. 


Fencers score three wins; continue national assent 
Notre Dame's fencing team con­tinued its rise toward national prominence by scoring three victor­ies, including two major upsets, last night at the ACC. The 5-0 Irish downed heavyweights Wayne State 
• )19-8), N.Y.U. (15-12) and crushed 

Tri-State (24-3). 

Freshman Mike Sullivan was a 
standout for the Irish as he posted a 
perfect 6-0 record on the night. 
Sullivan defeated defending NCAA 
champion Yuri Rabinovich, 5-1, in · one of the key matches of the night. Olympic contender Tim Glass downed Swedish Olympic squad member Hans Weiselgren by a S-3 margin._ 
The women's fencing team also did well on the night. Notre Dame defeated Tri-State, 5-4 and Culver Military, 7-2 in women's action. 
In one other match, Wayne State edged N.Y.U., 14-13. 
The fencers swept their initial 
matches of the season last weekend 
by defeating Cleveland State 24-3, 
and Indiana, 19-8. Cleveland State 
overcame Indiana 14-13 to round : out the triangular meet. 
All Irish weapons showed good 
strength with the foil fencers 
highlighting the competition by 
sweeping all nine of their bouts 
against Cleveland State. The epee 
team was led by All-Americans, Ed 
Fellows and Tim Glass, as they 
defeated all opponents handily. 
The Irish fencing team travels west this weekend to take on three foes. ~riday ~ight they will compe­te agamst Milwaukee Area Techni­cal College while on Saturday they move to Minnesota to fe·r,ce both the University of Minnesota and Winnepeg College. All three schoo­ls are new on Notre Dame's schedule. 






