
-~l 

server 
-st. mary's college

Vol. X, Monday, February 23, 1976

by Phil Cackley Staff Reporter 

Forty students were present last night at Grace Pit as the six candidates for SBP and SHVP reiterated their stands on a variety of issues and answered questions from the audience. 
Candidates Tim Boyle and Peter Gaa, Mike Sweigart and Bill Walsh. and Mike Ga~~man and Mike Casey largely restated their platforms and explained their posi­tion~ at the Grace forum held at 7 p.m. 
Also at the forum were North Quad SLC 
candidates Mary Charchut  and  Ed  Van  
Tassel.  who m:ide  brief stateme nts  and  
also answered questions.  

The studcnh present seemed generally unimprc~sl·d by the candidllles' presenta­tions and sometimes evasive responses to qut·stions. Towards the end of the otw-;tnd-a-half hour forum. one student a'kcd. "Do you guys have a gut reactions to anvthing'!" 
Boyle said that he would attempt to work for change, particularly in the area of parietals, by soliciting support from the alumni. He would do this by contacting "contributing alumni" at reunions held on football weekends. 
Improving student life on campus would al~o be a major part of his program, Boyle ~aid. One social event per week would eliminate the necessity to go off campus for social life and would preserve the Notre Dame community, he explained. 
Sweigart clarified several points on the hond fund he has proposed for students arrested for underage drinking. He said the fund would be for loan only and that no money would be lost by the Student Government. 
Bill Walsh, Sweigart's running mate. explained that reducing the level of a parietal violation to the hall level would help ~eparatc the ideas of sexual code violations and parietal violations, which he implied were two different things. 
Walsh also asserted that the issue of 
Sen. Hartke visits ND 
by Terry Keeney Editor-In-Chief 

Senator Vance Hartke said Sat­urday that the American people cannot have confidence in their government until inflation and unemployment are brought under control. 
The Indiana Democrat, appear­ing on campus Saturday for inter­views with the campus media, said that his re-election campaign this 

SENATOR VANCE HARTKE year for his fourth U.S. Senate term 
would focus on the failure of Republican leadership to improve the economy. 
"If you are going to re-institute confidence, you must give the impression that will create a land of opportunity," Hartke said. "An individual wants the right to be himself and he can't do that in an economy that has high unemploy­ment, high interest rates and high inflation." 
Harke argued that President Ford's recent veto of an important public works bill was based on a myth that large government spend­ing causes inflation. Ford justified the veto, which was later overrid­den. on the grounds that the bill was too costly and contributed to inflation. 
Hartke favored the bill because it created jobs and did not necessarily cause inflation. He said that the Federal government would get a return in increased income taxes from persons employed in such public works projects. 
Hartke argued that the Federal government should closely exam­inc what areas it should and should not regulate. He favors greater regulation of toxic substances and less regulation of the railroads. 
He cited recent Federal efforts to de-regulate the railroads. "Presi­dent Ford said in a letter to me that it was the first effective de-regula­tion of any magnitude that has been enacted since President Ford first acted for de-regulation in 1947," Hartke said. 
Toxic substances, such as ke­pone, must be regulated because they pose a serious hazard. (continued on page 2) 

experience. which he said was a major issue in the campaign. was not as crucial as some candidates were claiming. 
He pointed out that the past three Student Government administrations were experienced but left "alot of students disappointed." whereas Student Union Director Tom Birsic and Comptroller Jim Hummer, who had little experience. have "done a fantastic job this year." 
"Experience isn't the actual issue in the campaign. It's more a matter of keeping an open administration and the policies to be followed," Sweigart added. 
Mike Casey. Gassman's running mate, explained that the proposed Student Body Congress would not be another bureau­cratic body. Its purpose would be to de~elop communication, which Casey pomtcd out would have been especially helpful during the calendar situation last semester. 
Gassman expounded on his previous statement that he would try to eliminate the overcrowding in the College of Busi­ness Administration. He said that the Administration and the Academic Council have already started action on the matter and that this should be continued. 
Responding to a question, Gassman said that he did think experience i<> necessary 
,-------~~~~~~~~~~~--------------------­
SLC contenders speak on future plans 
by Tom Byrne 
Staff Reporter 
Candidates for Student Life 
Council representative from the 
North and South quads appeared in 
Zahm and Morrissey halls last 
night to present their positions on 
the various issues. Despite small 
crowds, all five candidates discus­
sed their future plans for the SLC. 
At the hastily organized South 
Quad forum at Morrissey, a 
handful of spectators attended the 
discussion between contestants 
Jeff Simnick, Peter Haley and Pat 
Russell. The trio addressed them­
selves in particular to problems of 
student apathy and the proper 
function of the SLC. 
Russell, a junior, stressed the 
importance of improving commun­
ication between the students and 
the SLC: 
"We've got to change the image 
of the SLC from an elite group to 
something that's more representa­
tive of the students. This can be be 
done best by going to the individual 
halls, and finding out what's going 
on through the hall government." 
Russell plans to facilitate com­
munication with the halls in parti­cular by an "associates" program, which entails the utilization of his personal contacts in the halls as a meth()d of gathering student opin­ion more efficiently. He also noted U;hat the administration will "res­
and outlined his own background in Student Government and Student Union. Casey described his role in Pangborn hall 
affairs. "We know the people and we know how to get things done," Casey said. 
On the subject of parictals, Walsh said that his personal view was that they should be eliminated. Sweigart agreed, saying that he saw "nothing magic about two o'clock." He said the problem was in getting 6500 opinions, not just two. 
Walsh commented. "I don't think any administration is going to change parietals in one year." When a student shouted, 
•"Can't you try?", he responded, "Yeah, we can try." 
Boyle came out in favor of "total abolition of parietals." 
One student asked if the candidates would be willing to take more drastic action to achieve their goals. in particular would they support a student strike. Boyle was the only candidate to positively support such an action. 
Gassman said that Sweigart's proposed bond fund would need to have over $2000 in liquid funds to work, because most bail bonds are set between $500 and $700. He said that Father Terrence Lally in Student Affairs already has a bond fund set up with 
SWEIGART (R) ·WALSH (l) 
pond better" to a group they recognize as genuinely representa­tive. 
Simnick emphasized improving student involvement through ad hoc committees and "increasing cooperation with the administration and faculty." 
"I'd also like to speed up by the process to reduce the time between when a proposal is made and when it is implemented," he explained. "I'd like to see more efficient use of the SLC in getting the views of the students to the administra­tion." 
Simnick endorsed the idea of "going to the halls, if necessary, to tell people what is going on." The sophomore stressed throughout the need to involve the student body in the affairs of the SLC. 
Peter Haley, also a sophomore, expressed his belief that the re­structuring of the SLC committees has made the organization "pretty sound," and that the responsibility of the candidates was to develop the new image. 
"This is the implementation stage," declared Haley. "The SLC can become a dynamic organization if the ideas on the COUL report can be implemented. We've got to work with the power we have," he added. "We can't afford to be harping on dead issues." 
"Apathy stems from a feeling of Student Activities money which can be used by students. 

Sweigart responded by explaining that their fund would be used only for underage drinking violations and that the bail for this is automatically set at $50. Walsh said he 
had never heard of bond being set at $~00 
for a misdemeanor. adding that he had 
never heard of student who used Lally's 
fund. · 
Towards the end of the forum. the candidates were asked by a student to tell in "twenty-five words or less whv I should vote for you." Boyle stated. "l'.m in~anl'. but I'm not stupid." pointing to the t-~hlrt he had on saying, ''I'm insane." Sweigart emphasized that meeting the admini~tra­tion halfway would result in the adminis­tration meeting the students halfwav, Gassman stressed his experience. · 
In closing statements, Gassman called for mo_re student involvement, Sweigart called tor a more open administration and involvement of student opinion, and Boyle stressed the need for more agressivc student government. 
The candidates also spoke last mght at II p.m. in a forum held in Stanford hall. 

GASSMAN (l)-CASEY (R) 
hopelessness,·' commented Haley. "If the students can see the SLC programs are in some way success­ful. they will become more involv­ed." 
Russell viewed apathy more as u problem of "frustration." "The SLC should get more involved ir• student problems because now th<· students have nowhere to go with 11 complaint,'' he stated, citing as ;w example complaints about rectors. 
According to Simnick, academk pressure accounts for much of th(' student apathy. "I hope. through my candidacy, I can show that students can be involved in gov· ernmcnt and study." 
A gathering of about thirt) students attended the appearance of the North Quad SLC candidate~ Ed Van Tassel and Mary Charchut. They appeared along with the SBP contestants in the Zahm chapel. 
In a brief address to the crowd, Van Tassel, the incumbent, em­phasized the accomplishments of the SLC and the need for leader· ship and experience in the upcom­ing year. 
"We have no continuity from one year to the next and so there is a problem working with the faculty and administration," he explained. 
"We have to continue the espec­ially good rapport we have now.'' Van Tassel asserted that he could 
(continued on page 6) 

Monday, February 23, 1976
the observer On Jaws and Nashville 
~--News Briefs--....... 
t=========================Intemational 
Last two return 

BANGKOK. Thailand -Encased in metal coffins draped with American flags, the remains of the last two U.S. military men known to have been killed in Vietnam were flown out of Saigon yesterday. 
Two aides of U.S. Sen. Edward Kennedy flew into the South Vietnamese capital and returned to Bangkok five hours later with the coffins of Cpls. Charles McMahon Jr., and Darwin L. Judge, two Marines killed by a rocket blast one day before Communist forces captured Saigon last April. 
.,.__On Campus Today__,_,. 
3 pm  --meeting, academic council meeting in rooms 100-104,  
cce.  
4:15 1m  --peter c. reilly lecture, "poisoning in a diffusion reactor: a two-faced approach" by dr. eugene e. petersen, dept. of chemical engineering. univ. of california at berkely. radiation laboratory conference room, sponsored by chemical engineering dept.  

-l:30 1m --ceremony, afrotc change of command ceremony. main concourse, ace. sponsored by air force rotc. 
6:30 pm . --panel discussion, campaigns '76, 122 hayes-healy. participants: harris, humphrey, kennedy, shapp, jackson. 
7 pm --meeting, HPC round table meeting, first floor lounge of Iafortune, for the 3 section leaders from each hall. 
7 &10 pm·-film, "macbeth" engineering aud. sponsored by the ~nglish dept. 
7 pm --meeting, chess club, meeting room 227 computing and math center. 
7 30 pm --panel discussion, "the family practice center" by dr. lou frank, and "health services in st. joseph county" by ms. roberta hoffman. respondents: prof. len fleck, 
7:30pm smc, and frank emmick, comprehensive health plan­ning agency. memorial hospital aud. 
8 pm --meeting, alcoholics anonymous meeting. red k. of michigan state, speaker. ace. gate 1-2. 
8 pm --american future series, "humanity's global crisis; america's responsibility" by rosemary ruether, prof. of historical theology, howard university. washington hall 
--lecture, "jaws and nashville: extremes in american films" by roger ebert, chicago sun-times. library aud. 
Sen. Hartke reacts 
(continued from page 1) 
be opposed. Necessary regulations should be favored," Hartke said. 
Favors anti-abortion amendment 
Hartke favors a constitutional amendment to reverse the Su­preme Court decision on abortion. He noted, however, that the word­ing of the amendment is still not certain because Congressional committees are currently consid­ering several versions. 
Hartke expressed concern over the recent dismantling of the Federal Election Commission. He believes the recent Supreme Court 
decision to lift the restrictions on individual contributions to political campaigns will make politics the arena for the rich. 
He cited the example of Nelson Rockefeller. "Should he really be allowed to saturate the air waves simply because he happens to inherit money from some big oil company?" he questioned. 
Hartke is afraid that the Repub-·, licans may take advantage of the1 Court decision and outspend hisl campaign by using large contribu­tions from few contributors. 
The Observer is published N'onday through Friday and VloEekl y during the su1T1111!1" session, except during the exams and vacation periods. The Observer is pubI ished by the students of the Univ. of Notre Darre and St. 1\Airy's COllege. Subsaiptions rrsy be purdlased tor $18 ($10 per semester) fro-n The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

·'The decision opens the door to Republicans trying to buy the election," he charged. 
Harke said that the only Repub­lican who has filed candidacy for his Senate seat is Richard Lugar, former mayor of Indianapolis who was defeated in 1974 in a Senate race by Birch Bayh. 
(*The Observer1 
Night Editor:  Val Zurblis  
Ass't  Night  Editor:  John  
Calcutt  
Layout Staff:  Bill Holtsnider  

Day Editor: Mary Pat Tarpey Copy Reader: Jack D'aurora Editorials: Martha Fanning 
Sports: Bill Brink 
Typists: Hank van Dyke, Mel Celeste, Mary Anne Keefel Night Controller: David Rust) 
Sun Times critic to speak 
by Jill Truitt Staff Reporter 
Roger Ebert, Chicago Sun Times 
movie critic, will speak Mon., Feb. 
23 at 8 p.m. in the Library 
Auditorium on "Extremes in Am­
erican Films: Jaws and NashviUe" 
Over 100 newspapers carry Eb­
ert's five wekly reviews and a 
Sunday "think piece." The New 
York Times, Esquire, Reader's 
Digest, Rolling Stone, Chicagoland 
and other publications publish his 
free-lance articles. 
Time magazine describes his reviews as "chatty, erudite." 
"Ebert is a community critic; he 
is not, as he disdainfully phrases 
it, 'an emissary from some outside 
theory of taste'," Time added. 
Saturday Review film critic Art­
hur K.ntght aescnoed Ebert. "He 
is a cultural resource of the 
community," he said. 
Ebert is the first motion picture 
film critic to receive the Pulitzer 
Prize. 
Ebert, 34, began his newspaper 
career in Urbana, Illinois. He 
worked as a reporter in high 
school for the Champaign-Urbana 
News-Gazette. 
In 1960 he entered the University 
Indiana no. 1 in encephalitis poll 
by Jorge Ferreiro Staff Reporter 
Indiana! Tht:; state that brought 
us corn on the cob and outstanding 
basketball teams now brings us 
encephalitis. 
In the past year in Indiana there 
were 304 cases of the disease, 
which resulted in 20 deaths. So now 
besides ranking #1 in the basket­
ball polls, Indiana merits the 
dubious distinction of having the 
highest per capita rate of encepha­
litis in the country. 
Encephalitis, a viral disease, s 
transmitted by mosquitos. There 
are no vaccines or drugs for the 
disorder, so once it is contracted, 
all one can do is hope one isn't 
killed by it. A variety of encephali­
tis, Eastern Equine Encephalitis, 
kills between 70 to 80 percent of 
those who contract the disease. 
This type of encephalitis was active 
in horses in St. Joseph County last 
year. 
As of date, the Indiana state 
legislature has refused to act on a 
program to reduce the incidence of 
encephalitis. One of the most 
vociferous critics of this inaction is 
Dr. George B. Craig, professor of 
biology at Notre Dame. Craig 
wants affirmative action taken to 
control the mosquito pests which 
transmit encephalitis. 
''The official Indiana attitude 
seems to be that encephalitis is a plaque rained on us by God and we should bow our heads and accept 
it,'' Craig said. 
At present there is a bill in the 
state legislature that is aimed at 
controlling mosquitos but in reality 
it is far from adequate. Concerning 
the bill Craig stated, "It's a very 
mild law. Many states have more 
effective legislation." 
Thus the people of Indiana must 
continue to suffer with the burden 
of encephalitis. At present 38 
states have mosquito abatement 
program. 

THE NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 
announces auditions 

for GODSPELL by Tebelek and Schwartz Singing Auditions: Sun. Feb. 29 at 1:00 P.M. and 7:00 P.M. 
J\....1. 
Washington Hall Stage

1"'\\...ing Auditions: Non. Mard11 at 6:00 P.M. Washington Hall Lab Theatre (Use Recr Stairway) To be oonsidered for a role everyone rrust attend both singing Clld acting auditions. IV'v.Jsical prepcration is required. Audition materials available at Room 110, MoreaJ Hall, 
of Illinois. He wrote a weekly newspaper's Midwest magazine 
column on the arts from 1961 to and Showcase section. The Sun­
1964 for the student newspaper, Times named him movie critic in 
the Dally lllini. April, 1967. 
He became editor of the lllini his Ebert wrote An lllini Century. 
senior year and president of the The book, published in May, 1967, 
U.S. Student Press Association. is "a lively record" of undergradu-
Ebert graduated from Illinois in ate life, according to Mark Van 1964 with a bachelor's degree in Doren, author of the book's for-journalism. He did graduate work ward. at Illinois, the University of Chica-Ebert's first screenplay, Beyond go and the University of Cape Town the Valley of the Dolls, opened in in South Africa. theaters across the country in June 
In 1966 Ebert joined the Sun-1970. "The film was a camp, Times as a reporter and feature sexpliotation, horror musical," E­writer. His stories a)Jpeared in the bert said.
r-----------------,
t ·~,.. C.A.U.S.E. t
,.":) G';"-'b •
0

!~v{~~e~ INVITES YOU TO ~ \S'~ : ' y..o''. %0 19,._ ' t \ WORK WITH c ;.o-(9..._ t 
~ 0 -~ 
t .,;,_,o~ THE ELDERLY /0 '?,.,_ t
t~v\{'{',e{~ "'~· ..,~'"J. t f Ge MEETING TONIGHT AT 7:00 in 19C"1-"~f 
L---~L~~~~~~E~---~ 
~ 
•
•
•
•
•
•: • 
: : 
• 

VISIT 
THE HOUSE OF SOMETHING BETTER 
"HELP INCREASE YOUR STAMINA AND ENDURANCE WITH HIGH 
PROTEIN AND VITAMIN SUPPLEMENTS FROM JOE WEIDER, BOB HOFFMAN, AND VIOBIN" 
1612 S. MICHIGAN SOUTH BEND, IND PHONE 287-5310 
~"<v~~~<v ~<v~~\~$. 
~~~~v<v*c

1-~~X'-~ SPEND A WEEKEND IN ~ DISCUSSION, PRAYER WITH 
OTHERS WHO HAVE FEB.27:28~9i SIMILAR INTERESTS I~~~o.:L:?!I 
SIGN-UP CAMPUS MINISTRY OFF~CE 
SHAKESPEARE'S 
MACBETH 
DIRECTED BY ROMAN POLANSKI 
ENGINEERING AUD. 7:00 10:00 MON., FEB. 23 ADMISSION FREE ! ! 
Monday, February 23, 1976 

the observer 
Kunitz and Kinnell conclude festival 
by Phil Cackley 
and Maureen Flynn 
Staff Reporters 

Poets Stanley Kunitz and Galway Kinnell concluded the 1976 Soph­omore Literary Festival Friday and Saturday nights with presentations of their poetry and prose. 
Kunitz, who spoke Friday, open­ed his reading with a short prose piece about e.e. cummings, who was a close friend of his. The piece was a private remembrance of 
Stanley Kunitz talks to some students after his readings Friday. 
en by his governess to nickelodeons to see movies instead of going to school. Kunitz commented that this is one of the reasons he gives for becoming a poet. The poem was entitled "The Magic Curtain." 
Kunitz closed with a piece prais­ing women folk artists who he said were producing the good art of the 18th and 19th centuries while their husbands were "doing their bad professional art." The poem was insJ?ired bv an American folk art 

(Photo bv Chris Smith) cummings. filled with anecdotes, including the time cummings was asked by fellow poet Marianne Moore to change "an inelegant word--spitoon--to cuspidor." 
Other prose selections read by the Pulitzer Prize winning poet included a number of short de­scriptions of the nature of poets: "A poet without a sense of history is a deprived child," and "Poems would be easy if our heads were not full of the day's clatter. Our task is to get to the other side, to the connectors with the stars and the tides." 
Kunitz presented a number of 
poems.  beginning  with  his  older  
poerns  and  progressing  to  more  
recent ones.  

One poem which amused the audience, entitled ''The Thief," was written after Kunitz was pkkpocketcd on a streetcar in Rome. The incident upset Kumtz and hurt his pride so much that he wrote a poem about it immediately after it happened. The audience burst into laughter as he read the lirst line: "Somebody Roman picked my pocket." 
Another work described his childhood experience of being tak­
"ff /

C0mm1 ee P BnS 
pane/diSCUSSIOnS audience listened intenselv to the 
The Mock Convention Cam­

paigns Committee, chaired by Harry Capadano, will sponsor two panel discussions on "Campaign '76" today and Wednesday Feb. 25 at 6:JO p.m. in room 122, Hay~s Healey Building. The panels wrll be composed of the campaign managers for each candidate. who will present a short presentation on their candidates followed by a question-answer period. Today's panel will include repre­sentatives of Fred Harris, Hubert Humphrey, Ted Kennedy, Milton Shapp and "Scoop Jackson. On Wednesday the panel will repre­sent Jimmy Carter, Birch Bayh Morriss Udall, George Wallace and Sargent Shriver. Everyone is invited to attend and delegates are especially urged to attend. 
JULIO'S 
NOW HAS 
PAN 
PIZZA!!! 

PHONE 232-7919 
exhibit Kunitz saw several years ago. 
He began the poem "In Celebra­tion of Women" by reading an epigraph written by the wife of an 18th century tinsmith. The epi­graph said, "Remember me is all I ask, and if remembering is too hard a task, forget me." The woman's name remains unknown. 
Saturday night poet Galway Kin­nell departed several times from the readings of his own works. 
The high point of Kinnell's presentation was the playing of a taped reading by the late Chilean poet. Pablo Neruda. Kinnell prefaced the tape of "Let Me Explain" by reading his English translation of the poem. 
"My theory of translation," the poet explained, "is to try to say as exactly as you can what the original poem said. This translation is not very good. I don't know that much Spanish." he admitted. "There's one line I'm not even sure I know what it means. but it's accurate!" 
The poem was written just after the outbreak of the Spanish Civil War, when Neruda was a diplomat in Spain. The tape of Neruda reading the poem in its original 
Spanish was made 35 years later. Despite the lack of familiarity with the Spanish language. the 
~IJ&"'P~ 
l~1~~~~2 f!~~lG~~y
~-00 day ad11ance payrilent requ1red
:-AM Call 
1.::\ toll free 800·325·4867 
'::'! Un;Travel Charters 
evident emotion behind Neruda's reading. The conclusion to the poem was greeted by thoughtful silence, broken only by a few sighs. 
Other highlights of the evening included a poem dedicated to "Ernest and Eileen and Evelyn :Sandeen." .Sandeen is a member of the English department and advisor to the Sophomore Literary Festival Committee. His daughter served as Kinnell's escort and his wife held a reception for the poet the preceding evening. 
Kinnell said he had written the poem that very morning and warn­ed, "For a few hours after one's written a poem, there remains a conviction that it's okay." 
Later in the program, Kinnell recited a poem by a former convict-poet Etheridge Knight. "When Etheridge was released from prison," Kinnell said, "I heard that he was back on heroin and I wrote a poem reproving him. It turned out it wasn't true at all," the poet explained, "but Etheridge told me it could happen any time, and I should keep it around." 
Kinnell read the poem addressed to Knight entitled "Brother of My Heart," and drew applause from the crowd. "Is there any tactful way I can ask you not to clap after a poem'?" he asked. "What that does is, well, there comes a poem and you don't clap... " The audience did not applaud again until the end of Kinnell's presenta­tion. 
Other selections included in Kinnell's program were "The Bear," describing an Eskimo hunt­ing a polar bear, and "Little Sleep's-Head Sprouting Hair in the Moonlight" taken from The Book of Nightmares. 
Kinnell closed with a section of the final poem from the same book after which the audience applauded for several minutes. The poet came back on stage to give the only encore of the festival. "Since it's the last night of the festival, you can probably stand one more 

TONITE ONLY ALL SEATS 1.00 

PHONE 288-8488 
FOR TIMES 

poem," he said, and read the mented on the success of this entire conclusion to The Book of year's festival. "The authors gaveNightmares. their hearts, and the audience 
Following Kinnell's closing pre­realized their own. We saw, at sentation, Michelle Quinn, chair­least for one week, something man of the SLF committee, com-beautiful," she said. 
*SPECIALS* $1.49 
Mon: Chopped Steak Dinner 
OPEN

Tues: Ribeye Steak Dinner II to 9 P Wed: Ham Steak 
Dinner EVERYDA Thur: Chopped or 
1516 N.

Ribeye Steak Fri: Fish Dinner IRONWOOD 
Includes Angus Potato, 
289-0755

Salad and Toast 
,................,.......................................,.
1 Management-oriented ' ~ Sales Trainees ' 
I ~ 
~ Ed Fanning Chevrolet, located in Aurora, illinois (soon to ~! be the second largest city in the state of illinois), will be on ~ '-! campus 'fuesday, March 9, 1976 to recruit management-on-~ ~ ented sales trainees who would be interested in a career ~! opportunity with outstanding growth potential in the retail ~ '-! automobile business. We are interested in young, '-! ~ aggressive sales personnel who will have the knowledge and !! ability to grow with the future plans of the oompany, who will ~ '-! be able to move on into management positions and beoome '-! ~ leaders of men. ~ ~ The personnel we are seeking should have the desire for an ~ ~ ambitious career which would lead them to dealership ~ ~ management-ownership. ~ 
k ................................................l 
Are You Graduating Soon? 
* 
Are You Eligible to Teach in High School? 

* 
Are You Willing to Help Young People Through Education? 


We Are The Christian Brothers
* We Are a Roman Catholic Religious Order of Teaching Brothers 
We Have a Live-In Program for You 
* 
You Will Become Actively Involved with Us: -In Our Living of Community -In Our Educational Service 

* 
You Will Have an Excellent Opportunity to See if Religious 


Life Is for You.  BROTHER  LAWRENCE  PORRETTA. F.S.C.  
Write  or  Call  for  More  Director of Vocations  
Information:  200 De La Salle  Drive  
GIVE  IT  A  TRY!!  Lockport. Illinois bO# I 1815) 838-8900 -Ex. b8  

* *
:Here's a chance : 
* *
:foreveryoneto i 
~ * A A ,.. * 
i learn about • • i 
* *
* *
* *
* * 
~ ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS ~ 
*
*

$ OPEN PUBLIC MEETING 
~ 

! MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, * 
* 7·30 p M
: * . . . 
! 
* 
*
* 

Featured Speaker: ! "Red" K. : Michigan State University $ 
* 

A.C.C. ATHLETIC AUDITORIUM ** 
~ (Enter Gates 1 or 2) ~ 
* 

L-------------------········································································· 

Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame ano St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­mentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, cartoons and regular columns express the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Editorials: 28~· 1715 News: 283-8661 Bl·siness: 283-7471 
Business Manager Tom Modglin Advertising Manager Tom Whelan 
EDITORI.AL BOARD Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief AI Rutherford Managing Editor Jim Eder Executive Editor Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor Bob Mader News Editor Maureen Rynn Ca1111us Editor Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor Ken Bradford Copy Editor Val Zurblis Wire Editor Tom O'Neil Features Editor Bill Brink Sports Editor Dan sanchez Senior Night Editor 

Monday, February 23, 1976 
~ 

SBP: Gassman 
Today the student body votes for its next president and vice president. After exten­ded interviews with all the candidates, the Observer Editorial Board believes that Mike Gassman and MikeCasey should be our next president and vice president because of their experience, their solid proposals, and be­cause they are the best qualified team to carry out such proposals. 
. Mike Gassman has had three years of experience in student government, including this year's tour of duty as Student Govern­ment Academic Commissioner. Of course, experience is not everything, but it does give one a chance to get one's basic mistakes out of the way early and to learn from them. It has given Gassman a thorough understand­ing of the workings of student government and a knowledge of many of the people he will have to work with among the students, faculty and administrators. 
Gassman's record of service includes the 
notable victory of getting the Academic 
Council to pass a reasonable and acceptable 
calendar. Even for a second try this is a rare 
accomplishment in the history of the 
calendar feud. 

Mike Casey, Gassman's running mate, 
has also had experience in student govern­
ment as president of Pangborn Hall and as a 
member of the Hall President's Council. 
The platform put forward by Gassman and 
Casey contains several sound proposals: 
Their Student Body Congress would coordi­
nate the activities of the SBP, SBVP, HPC, 
SLC and Student Union. Representatives from Student Government and Student Union at the HPC meetings would improve communication between these groups. A student government press secretary would help to improve the currently poor relations bet ween Student Government and the me­dia. Gassman and Casey plan to continue the work that has been done towards lowering the drinking age, developing the hall judicial boards, investigating the serious overcrowd­ing in the Business College, and pushing through the proposals of the COUL Report. 
Joint action by students and faculty to get their proposals accepted is one of Gassman's best ideas. Both faculty and students often find their proposals neglected or rejected by the Administration, yet by working together they would form potentially powerful majori­ties in bodies like the SLC and Academic Council. Gasman has already started work on closer facUlty-student relations in the Aca­demic Council. The student-supported calendar could not have passed without faculty votes and student votes were crucial in passing the faculty's proposals on hiring and promotions. 
Two men cannot run student government by themselves but Gassman and Casey have gained the support of many other active student leaders from the halls, Student Government and Student Union. Gassman's success as Academic Commissioner has shown that he knows how to work with others and direct a coordinated staff effort. 
Overall, the Gassman-Casey ticket stands out in this year's field as by far the best. 
Three for SLC 
For the SLC races the Observer Editorial 
Board has conducted interviews with the candidates and has rated them as ''above average," "average" or "below average" in terms of the whole field of candidates for SLC seats. Then for each seat we have endorsed the person we feel to be the most qualltlea of those running for that particular 
office. 
North quad 

Mary Charchut: Above Average 
Ed Van Tassel: Above average 
We endorse Mary Charchut. 

It is unfortunate that these two people are 
running against each other since they are the 
best qualified of the whole field. Although 
Van Tassel is the only incumbent running for 
re-election, and was chairman of the 
committee which put together the social life 
survey, experience is not everything. Since 
this year's SLC did not really get moving 
until November, the difference in experience 
is not great in any case. Van Tassel has 
failed to keep in personal contact with 
constituents outside his own hall, thus 
weakening the student support the SLC 
needs to be effective. 

Charchut, on the other hand, has done her 
homework before running for 
the seat. H she keeps her promise to stay in 
touch through the hall councils she will 
provide an excellent combination of compe­
tence and communication. 
South quad 
Jeff Simnick: Average 
Peter Haley: Average 
Pat Russell: Average We endorse Jeff Simnick. 
On the South Quad no candidate stands 

out as particularly well-qualified. Of the 
three Simnick seems most informed about 
the issues the SI.C may face and puts 
particularly intelligent stress on cultivating a 
good working relationship with the rectors 
who will be enacting the SLC's proposals on 
the hall level. 
Off-campus 
len Moty: Average 
Tom Digan: Below Average 
John Kinney: Average 

John Steinman: Did not come for interview 
We endorse len Moty. 

Moty has several good ideas about the key off-campus problem: extremely poor com­munications among off-campus students and between 0-C students and the rest of the University community. He proposes having regular noon office hours in LaFortune to keep in contact with off-campus students. 
Vote! 

The fact of the matter is that there are a great many things about life around this place that need improving. None of those things are going to be improved by students who just sit around and spend all their time on a relentless four-year effort to become alumni. Student leaders who are ignored by the students are certainly going to be ignored by the Administration. So if you want anything done around here, get off your rears and vote. 
s e riousIy, foI k s !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
The Secret Factory 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-.art bu c hwaId 
WASHINGTON--Probably the biggest business in Washington is the manufacturing of secrets. In the past 20 years the demand for secrets has increased tenfold and. because the government cannot keep up with it, all federal agencies are now subcontracting their orders for secrets to private industry. 
I visited one of these secret manufacturing factories the other day. It is called Hush Hush Ltd .. and is located in a suburb outside Washington, D.C. 
arnold Zankel. one of the founders of the company. was my escort. 
"We're going 24 hours a day," he said proudly. "Everyone in the government is desperate for secrets and they all need them immediately." 
··t thought the CIA hearings and the disclosures about the FBI and the Watergate scandal would have hurt your business." 
Au contraire." said Zankel. "As soon as a secret is revealed to the public, the agency involved orders a new one to replace it. The demand for full disclosure of what the government is up to has made every government department search for more sophisticated secrets that can't be discovered." 
Zankel took me into a large room which was completely automated. There were machines typing up documents and other machines stamping them ·'Confidential.·· 
"This is our bread and butter business," he explained. "We supply 80 percent of all the confidential papers used by the federal government." 
"How do thev order them'?" 

"By the ton. We might get a call from HEW or HUD and they'll 
say we need three tons of confidential papers for the week.·· "Don't they specify what kind they want?" "No. confidential papers do not have a high rating in the 
government. but it does make the department look good to have them in their tiles. So nobody really cares what's on them. We just program our electric typewriters to type up anything that looks official. then we stamp them 'Confidential,' bale them in hundred-pound packages. send them over by truck and throw them on the steps of the agency every morning.'' 
We came to some swinging doors. "This is something that might interest you," Zankel said. The large airy room had three long tables at which were seated men and women in white smocks. Thev were working on binding volumes of mimeographed papers. ­
"What are they doing?" . 

"They're binding secrets to be subpoenaed. These arc secrets 
that can be given to congressional committees." I looked perplexed. Zankel explained. "Congress is demanding more and more 
secrets from the executive branch of the government. So we are manufacturing secrets especially tailored to satisfy congressional subpoenas. For example, these chips have been ordered by the Federal Reserve Board and have to do with the private affairs of banks. When Congress demands to see the secret papers in the Fed's files. the Federal Reserve Bank will send these over. Obviously. they're so complicated that no one can understand them. But since they have a lot of bulk to them the .committees are usually satisfied. 
''The people over there are working on energy secrets. and down there they are dealing with agricultural exports. Our job is to see that no one can make head or tail out of them.·· 
Before we went into the next room Zankel made me put on rubber boots. We entered a hall with three inches of water on the floor. "This is probably our most difficult work. We have to make secrets here that can be leaked." "You have government orders for secrets that leak?" I asked in surprise. 
"It's our bigge~t item. Bet~een _Henr~ Kissinger. Pat Moynihan and the congresswnal committee Investigating the CIA. we can't 
keep them in stock.·· 
DOONESBUAY 
'ff/..L M&, MR. 
ll, HOW !XJ&5 TH& OfAIRMAN THe FOR&16N HA5 A SAYING MINISTRY VI/3W P&RT!N&NT TO NORMAL-IZATION YOUR QU£iST/ON. NOtv? I 
' 
by Garry Trudeau 

tau.., r TH()(J6HT H£M16HT.. 
\ 


----The Candidates Speak---­
opinion!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!I 
Experience Counts 
t--iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii gassman-casey 
Student interest and involvement I)Work closely with the academic arc the keys, strong leadership and council and Business College Coun­experience are the tools that must cil to alleviate the overcrowding be used to give students at Notre and scheduling problems in the Dame a stronger and effective School of Business. Work was Student Government. We will begun here by us in the academic work with that experience and commission this year. leadership to develop a student 2)Continuc efforts and follow-ups government that better serves the .to the COUL reports. The reports students. By improving communi­shoulc not end. but be continued, cations and cooperation between reevaluated, until all plans are the bodies of student government, realized. with the people it works for, and 3JPrcpare to work closely with with the faculty and administration the Indiana Student Lobby to it deals with. the students will be reduce the drinking age. This was given a stronger voice. an election year, making voting on 
!laving all branl·hes of student such a controversial issue difficult. government working together, effi­Next year, things will be better, dcntly, there will be more effective and with our strong efforts, the bill actio~ and cooperation. To esta­will have a good chance of passing blish a united, effective govern­the legislature. ment, we propose to: 4)1ncrcasc services offered by 

1 )Have a representative of student government and student 
opinion 

student government and student union. With good people involved, union present at each hall presi­we can do even more for the dents' council meeting. These students. 
Insane But Not Ignorant
representatives will be there to S)Pursuc further involvement 
facilitate better interaction bet­with the Board of Trustees. speak­
boyle-gao

ween the bndies, alleviate misun­ing to them at every opportunity. derstandings, and provide for a By doing so, we will keep them Things arc more like they arc side the classroom experience. 3) Revitalize S.M.A.M.D. the unitied and directed effort with the aware of the students feelings and now than they ever have been We heartily approve and endorse committee to improve relatinns most representative body of stu­problems. 
before. Never before has the Notre the immediate establishment of a between St. Mary's and Notre dents on campus 6)F~rther develop our Judicial Dame student body been as voluntary co-ed dormitory. Be­Da111c 2)Dcvclop a student body congress Board System. By having the 4) Improve the athletic program
apathetic as they arc now. Never cause we arc mature adults, we The congress will be composed of J-Boards recognized as capable 
have we been more frustrated in alone should determine the hours for women the members of the HPC. SLC, and efficient, more responsibilities 
our attempts to achieve vital im­that we keep; the university has no 5) Advocate a more aggressive Student Union Board of Directors, can be given to them, and possible provements which we feel arc place establishing rules to govern student government. especially SBP. and SBVP. Congress will solutions to parictals and parties concerning an improvement of
neccs~arv to better this institution. this arc;t. We therefore, advocate bl·~t guide the directions and needs may stem from their work. communications with the student
The purpose of this column is not to and will persistently work for the of all student oriented groups. By Finally we will work to improve hodv
throw more rhetoric in the face of abolishment of all parictals.inducting the Hall Presidents, Stu­student-faculty relations. The im­the student body but to state the The other things we would like to o) lndudc a sccurit~· rating in dent government will be closer to portance of this was seen in the fact~ of student life as we see it. do to improve the on-campus social the off-campus housing evaluations 
In order to achieve these goals,the people it represents. It will also calendar struggle this year. The 
The platform we arc about to set life are : 

we must make a concerted effort toba a strong and unified voice at key to our success was the working forth doc~ not include unreason­I) Continue the student lobby to gcty the support of the alumni,times of crisis, such as the calendar closely with the Faculty Senate and able goals but goals we feel are the state legislature whether during home footballissue. the faculty members of the Acade­
reali~tic fand ncccssarv. 2) Increase the number of 

weekends or via the Alumni Asso­])Improve student government's mic Council. The faculty tends to The mo~t pressing issue this ,lfl-campus social functions. sul·h cwtwns. With their hacking wepublic relations, with the students sec things in much the same light universitv faces is that of co-educa­a~. more speakers from outside the will be in a better position to deal.111d the media. A liaison or press as docs the students. By working 
tional hl;using. This is probably a number

·.miversity, greater of with the administration, whid1 willo;;cl·retary will be established for closely with them on the SLC and one of the greatest educational Stepan concerts, and the re­rause the administration to hecommunication with campus media Academic Coundl, we will have opportunitic!> this university can opening of bowling lanes which are more attentive idea!>
to our andto ensure accurate and complete more input and a better chance of provide ih students in the area of presently used for merchandise goals. _We may be insane but wecoverage and improved relations. success. 

beyond-the-books learning and out-storage beneath the bookstore arc not ignorant.

Student government must be a These are our proposals to continuum of effort, working for 
Khie~ an C~ctiR ~Rrnm9t opinion~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
many things on a long range scale. for the students. They are feasible, Our experience with the workings practical goals that we can and will of student governments for the past 
achieve. Butmostimportanttoany 
Issues and Answers
three years gives us an overview of government is the interest and things that should be continued backing of the student body. We and others that should be initiated. urge students to show their interest We will: 
and involvement by voting today. --------------------·
sweigart-waIsh 
It seems the major issue of the 
these people and not in student of student representation. At thisDOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau student body election has become orgamzation experience. Their 

IA/Ut.., 
THANkS, M!i!.M!NG. I 

•.IN THE CNO, 7HEY tJeSTROY THE as­YOU'Ve f'OT /..AN{)LIRP, ANlJ ALREAOY CH£tRS RING ACfliJSS SEEN IT/
THE 5KJES IN PRAISE 

r
OF OIAI!lfr/AN MAO. 
\ level, communication and effortexperience. With all due respect, 

competence and inner qualities are 

coordination are of supreme im­the past three student body admin­
the differentiating factors of their 

portance. However, the SBP andistrations have been the product of 
administrative ability. Sweigart 

SBVP and their representativesexperience, generation from within 
and Walsh have exhibited these 

must move to attend hall meetings.
yet the student body has been 
qualities in their past endeavors. 

It is here the roots of studentdissatisfied. 
Sweigart-Walsh feel the real 

opinion are formed.
It might be interesting to note 
issue of the student body elections 

This view of administrative pol­the work of two "relatively" inex­
is the policy of administration. 

icy is what differentiates the Swei­perienced people this year. Every­
There must be a concerted effort by 

gart-Walsh ticket from "the other one has acclaimed the work of Jim 
both the SBP and SBVP to bring 

guys". Once again we ask allHummer and Tom Birsic. Toget­
student government closer to the 

students (including seniors) toher, these two have been the main students. Efforts must be made to express their opinion. Show thedriving force in reorganizing and 
make the SBP more visible, more 

Administration, faculty and fellowadministrating the now financially 
available and to get more students 

students they care. Please vote!
successful student union. 
involved in student governmentIt's true Jim Hummer's student 
and student union. union comptroller was assistant 
Editor's Note

This is where the Sweigart­!Comptroller last year. However, ~~--~-~----~~---­
Walsh concept of an "open" In the interests of cncourag·last years assistant comptroller's 

administration may be seen to be 

ing a full discussion of the job has been described by Jim as 
more than a political cliche. Not 

issues of this student bodynothing more "than carrying time 
only must the doors of student 

presidential and vice-president­cards to the Administration Build­
ial campaign the Obscn·er edi­ing to have paychecks drawn up on 
government be open, but more 

torial page has offered all three Friday afternoons." 
importantly, the SBP and SBVP 

presidential-vice-presidential 
Tom Birsic had only one seme­
must be open to interaction with 

tickets column space. ster of strong experience as assist­
the students to exchange observa­

The candidates wrote what­ant commissioner for the Social 
tions, complaints, and criticisms. 

ever they wished regarding
We feel this kind of informative Commission before taking the res­

their platforms and the cam­
exchange will lead to the desired ponsibility of student union director 

paign. We have run their
"positive resolves". this year.· 

comments uncut and as they
To implement this type of ex­

were submitted in order to letThese two most notedly and change, the SBP and SBVP must be them speak to the student bodycertainly among others had little 
integrally involved with the SLC, 

directly without having theirexperience but were extremely 
HPC, Academic Council, and Stu­

remarks filtered through a thirdsuccessful. The reason lies within 
dent Union, for these are the basis 

party. 
~-------6-----t-h_e_o_b--se_r_v-er-
Monday, February 23, 1976 
~ Disco dance andKlein concert salvage www 
by Nick DiGiovlne Staff Reporter 
Despite the weather conditions, the Wacky Winter Weekend, spon­sored by the ND-SMC's social commission, was declared an over­all success by Kathy Smouse, social commissioner and John Rooney, 

Conference starts 
The Bicentennial conferenc..~. or­ganized by the Notre Dame Bicen­tenial Committe begins tonight at 8 
p.m. in Washington Hall. Due to a schedule revision, a professor in the Harvard School of Divinity, Harvey Cox, opens the three day conference. Rosemary Reuther now speaks on Wednesday at 1: IS p.m. 
Cox entitles his speech. "secu­larit~ and Seduction: the Ambig­uous l<nle of American Religion in Social Change." Cox is expecially intere~ted in the ability of the religiou~ community to criticize the 
U.S. and the world. He views religion as very important to the human experience, as well as in dealing with world problems. 
Cox has written a number of hooks: The Secular City, The Feast of Fools, God's Revolution and Man's Responsibility, and the Se~ duction of the Spirit. Most recently he has authored Not Leaving it to the Snake. 
SLC election 
(continued from page 1) • provlCie the necessary leadership, due to his experience. 
Charchut. hall coordinator for the Social Commission, stressed communication with the various halls. 
Charchut expressed a desire to establish continuity in the SLC by possibly implementing two-year terms. She voiced the need for more student involvement in the SLC and suggested that apathy could be combatted by bringing the representatives closer to the halls. 
Van Tassel. pointed to the im­plementation of matters already pending before the SLC, such as coed housing, party proposals, and judicial board renovation as his prime goals for the upcoming year. 
r:.-:n;;-;s·~···~
f difference!!! : 
: ~'flffE 1'011 : 
• MCAT Ooler lSy11n • 
e of IIPiftiiiCI a 
: DAT *'':CIII : : lSAT ""'" ""'" :
•. GRE • •.
WolurnoiiOUI ._. 
: GMAT ''udy '"''""'' : 
: QCAT Courm 1~11 art • 
: CpAT con'':"' •lldl••• : 
• vAT r.,. IKohlou lor :
• 
rtwot•l ol CIIU a
• SAT 
Itnons 1nd lor "" •
: flEX ol supple"''"''"' a
.....,...,. . 
•• ECFMG • •
M1~1 ups lor : • nunrd lruons • 
: NAT'l MED BDS : •• • NAT'L DENT BDS • 
• 
• Mo11 clan•• start 8 weeks : 
• 
pr~or fo Exam • 
Sprong & Fall compacn •
• Some courses offered on e• Ma1or Campuse1 e 
• 
INDIANAPOLIS 6620 Grt!enshtre Dr•ve lnd11n•pol11. lnd 462:10 
• 
13171 842-1267 
• CHICAGO CENTER :
• 
(312) 764-5151 • 
~~~~~ 
• P'ICIALtS'S.SIHCf tt• e
.• ,.,...................... ' ..,. .• 
• lli2)~1D • 
• .,,,.( ..... ,., ...,oo v!. -,:., ••, • 
i MCAT SOON i 
~egister No~j 

Weekend chairman. 
Rooney attributed the success to two main events: "The weekend was a success because two new ideas were introduced on campus and enthusiastically accepted, the Disco, held on Friday night, and the Kline concert, held Saturday night.'' 
The conference continues with a panel discussion at 10 a.m. and a lecture by Lester Thurow at 4:30 p.m., tomorrow in the Library Auditorium. 
Rosemary Reuther speaks at l: 15 
p.m. Wednesday. Finlay Camp-well speaks at 8 p.m. that same day­
· The Disco packed LaFortune's second floor ballroom with students dancing to the music played by the WSND D.J.'s. Tom Henning, representative from the Sound Room which donated the equip­ment for the event and the WSND 
D.J .'s said they were willing to put on another such event in the future. 
The winner of the Wacky Wabbit contest, Brian McCurdy of Cava­naugh, was awarded the $100 at the Disco for guessing the "Wah­bit's" whereabouts. McCurdy said 
that the "7 and 3" clue, referring to the row of seven windows one way and three the other in Hoyne's College, was the deciding clue. A dance contest was also held at the Disco. 
Smouse recalled hearing one onlooker say that Friday night was the first time in a long time that 

*************************************
i SHOP TOWN & ~ COUNTRY 
LaFortune has looked like a real student center. Rooney added that the Disco proved that LaFortune had the necessary facilities to accommodate such an event and should be used more often in the future. 
Robert Klein nationally re­nowned comedian, entertained the audience of 636 students for two hours and was called back on stage for two encores. Because of the response Klein was given, Rooney suggested that more comedians be brought to the campus in the future. 
•'The hardest part has been done by introducing these events to the Notre Dame campus," commented Rooney. He feels that the student interest shown in them is enough to warrant other events like them in the future. 

The unpredictable South Bend weather cast a dark cloud over the events planned for Saturday after­noon. "We were hoping for good weather or snow, but there isn't much you can do in the rain," said Smouse. Because of the rain all of those events planned for snow were cancelled. 
The future of such outdoor events next year will depend on the new Social Commission which will take over on April 1. Possibilities of moving the events indoors are being discussed. 
Other events which lent to the weekend's good times were the Happy Hour at Kubiak's Friday afternoon and the Square Dance held in LaFortune Saturday night after the Klein performance, noted Smouse. 
--+--SHOPPING CENTER ­

~tUft~~
I RT.20 • 
431 No. Hickory Rd. So. Bend 
Come You Fightin' Irish 

TO TOWN &COUNTRY ·FOR YOUR FAVORITE 
WINES-LIQUORS 
Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM 
'" 

'I \ LIQUOR • WINE® 10% DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC 1.0. BEER· BEST PRICE IN TOWN VOLUME DISCOUNT
11 
FREE DELIVERY
WE'RE 
TWO FREE
BEHIND LOCATIONS DELIVERY THE IRISH 
Now aBose Direct/Reflecting bookshelf speaker and its under $100. 
If you thought it couldn't be done, you don't know BOSE. Because the new BOSE MODEL 301 speaker is just that. A bookshelf speaker that provides reflected and direct sound performance in the tradition of the internationally-famous BOSE 901® and 501 speakers. 
It provides such astounding performance for its size that, frankly, it's hard to believe that this speaker costs under $100. But it does. And, it's easy to place and can be adapted to all room environments. 
Come in this week and ask to hear a demonstration of the new 
hear it. 
~{1 
SM J ~ 
li 
§()(),._,() 


Monday, February 23, 1976 the observer 
Women ministers discussedr••••t~Trtrte~~~r····l 
raised a lot of expectations," said yet may not distribute Communion • ONE OF AMERICA'S OUTSTANDING BOYS' CAMPS, LOCATED IN NORTH· •
by Mary Rathburn 

Storey, but he added thl\t the kinds or annoint a dying patient. • ERN WISCONSIN, ANNOUNCES A LIMITED NUMBER OF OPENINGS ON THE •
Staff Reporter STAFF FOR THE 1976 SEASON. DATES ARE JUNE 21 · AUGUST 11. 
of "absolutely ridiculous docu-A controversy arose when Storey COMPENSATION INCLUDES SALARY OF $425-600, ROUND TRIP TRANSPOR-
In a lively panel discussion on ments" he has received recently stated that priests are oppressed • TATION, LIVING QUARTERS, BOARD, AND LAUNDRY. THIS IS AN • from the U.S. bishops serve only to and denied basic rights within the • UNUSUALLY ATTRACTIVE SUMMER JOB. CONSroUENTLY, ONLY MEN •
Women in Ministry held last night discourage women from participat-structure of the Church. "I "t WITH THE HIGHEST CHARACTER AND INTEGRITY WILL BE CONSIDERED.
in the library auditorium, panelists agreed on several issues. ing in ministries. He cited recent wouldn't wish priesthood on my • • documents on the minor orders of worst enemy. Would you like to FOR COMPIEI'E INFORMATION, WRITE: A consensus was found in the acolyte and reader which specifical-invite a nice woman to share that?" • D.C. BROADBRIDGE • following: that there is no sound ly exclude women. Storey asked. • 2863 SHANNON COURT • theological argument to excluding Ford questioned whether bish-Egan disagreed with the pessi-NORTIIBROOK, Ill.. 60062 women from ordination, that it is ops might have a "psychological mis_tic view of ~he . pr!esthood, ~..................., 
unjust and discriminatory to ex­hangup" about the "purity" of saytng that all tnstttuttons are,_;;;......;......;;.....;;......;.....;..._....;_.;.._______....,-.._________ clude women from the priesthood, women. "What is in the bishops' oppressive. "I believe the struc­that women have been engaged in minds and what is impeding tures have got to be changed and I 
THE CRUCIBLE 
various ministries in the Church for them?" she asked. She proposed believe they can be from the 
~NO 

Arthur Miller's po~rful dra­
centuries and that the language psychological testing and sabbati-inside," she stated. Ford ques­and symbols of the Church are in cal years "so that they can descend tioned, "Will we ever get a change 
rra exarrining events sur­
need of change to eliminate sex­from their thrones and live among in the Church until women are 
rounding the Salem witch
SMC 

ism. the people." admitted to the priesthood?" 
hunts. 

Egan asserted that the negation Panelists and speakers in the 
THEATRE

An audience of 100 heard panel­
Feb. 27, 28, Mar. 4, 5, 6
of the rights of women to ordination audience agreed that changes ofists Msgr. John Egan, chairman of is due to presuppositions, social or language and symbols are neces­
All Seats $2.00

the Catholic Committee on Urban 
at 8:00P.M.
canonical. and not founded on sary to eliminate sexism in liturgy.
Ministry, Dr. Elizabeth Fiorenza, 
(Std-Fac. $1.50)

theological principles. The ques-He advocated, among other chan­
Dr. Josephine Ford and Dr. Wil­
Alone: 284-4176 OlAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM
lion of justice, he said, relates not ges, the use of "human race" orliam Storey of the Notre Dame only to the individual who desires "people of God" instead of 
(St. Mary's)
theology department. Sister Kath­ordination but more deeply to the "man."
leen Hughes, Ph. D. candidate in 
pastoral needs of the people. ''The •••••••••••••...........,..........................................................••••¥++
the theology department, served as moderator. 
poor and oppressed of the world* *
SCHOLASTIC'S EDITORIAL BOA
aErgeacnr.ying out for ministers," said : 
RD ! 

The recent conference on the ..­ordination of women held in Detroit Fiorenza pointed out that it may : : last Thanksgiving was a spring-be a mistake to focus on ordination * *
PRQUDLY ANNOUNCES THE 
board for much of the discussion. of women to the priesthood and * * Hughes pointed out that the con-overlook the many leadership roles : * fcrcncc attracted 1,250 participants and ministries that women have lt * 
~;J(~l~~~~t~~cr~e~~~~:dn~~~y "}~~ ~~~~ ~-~:r;; ~~~dc~~:~~pr~~ ~~n~~::i~g :1 09th SPRING ELECTI0 N GALA: 
ol space. sisters who perform pastoral duttes lt :
•••••••..~•••••••••1: GRAND PRIZE: ONE YEAR'S !
+ The Amencan Future: t * * : A RADICAL PERSPECTIVE .: TENURE AS 1 
: I I : ~ EDITOR-IN-CHIEF ~
• c0 RRECTI0 Ns .•* 
!NlliRIS1ED CONTISTANIS ARE INVITED t 
• . . • : 'ID SUBMIT RESUMES TO SAlLY STANI'ON : • • : BY 5 P.M. ON FEB. 27, 1976, AT 'IliE * t Monday February 23 t! scHolASTic oFFicE. FOR FURI'HER t • • : INFORMATION, CONTACT SAlLY AT 7419 : 
OR6728. t
• ~~ll VEY cox •*........................................................................................................... 
Classified Ads 

4, 5, 6 bedroom houses completely
•t 8 pm Washington Hall:• 
furnished, extremely nice, real close Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho to campus, September 1976, 9
WANTED 

at 232 07 46. month lease. Call 233-2613 or. 232-7263.
Must ha~e 3 Marque!:J tix. call 
Rich Man, Poor Man now at

i --------------· :
John 1462. 

Pandora's Books. 937 So. Bend Ave. PERSONALS 10-7 Daily.
Need Western Mich tix, call Joan

: Wednesday February 25 : 
Secret Admirer,1327. 
SMC-ND Sumr. er Programs l.ondon How nice it would be to thank you in (May 18-June 1Hl; Rome (June 17-oerson. Nancv
;;e~o-m~~~-;s-;;:;:;,~~;;-t-:;-;--zall 
July 16) college credit available.
233-9841 afte.-10 P.M. 

For information c.111 Prof. A. R. Jim "The Loiter" E.,
:llosEM~Ry RUET~ER •• ------­
--~-------­

at Black at 284-4938 (off.) or 272-3726 Congrats brother-in-law's
Need Marquette tix. ,-au Jf)e on your 
(home). success.
• 287-511:,.

• FOR SALE rlelp! Help! Would the persons who
+ 1: 15 pm Washington Hall+ ~-;p~r~~y-n~~-~;~;;,~te 
"borrowed" the resume books from Must sell orange 1973 Super Beetle, the Placement Bureau please return 32,00 miles, AM-FM, defogger, them. Other students are waiting. 
excellent tires and interior. recent

~*t~t*t~t*t~t*t~*·*·**·*·**'*·*·*:* ~:~~-~~~~a:~u~~~~~~'Zall
* :*~ :*: . Mike or Ann at 272-5884 after 7 
tune-up, phone or leave message lor To Our Secret Admirees: Benj at 234-2'01 ext. 50 9AM-6PM, RSVP or you'll break our hearts. 9 Asking
: ALL SENIORS ON THE i 2~~~;~~;;~~~;a~;M~~-289-8111 PM-12AM. xxoox 
$2150 or best offer.
quette tix p.Jssible.

* * as Caol Peggy "Winning Pants" please clarify.* * 6896. For Sale: dual 1218 complete with 13ea cartridge, Steve 1024. To the "Best" DJK of WSND, May
~ WAITING LIST FOR THE ~ ;;e~d-~a-~;~~~~~;~;e~-;or the big bird of that big radio station
* * Marquette badly. Please call Pat Disneyland murals from Mardi Gras in the sky pool) on you!! Detachedly for sale. Call 1148. The Stoopid Studiers. 
1968 Dodge Charger 318, automatic Sam, 
power steering, great condition, The sun shines for you. Rainbow. snow tires and Mag wheels included 
I SENIOR TRIP I ~~~=:~~~:':~:'=T~,,
Tickets for WPs*Jrn Michigan game 
$600, call 272-1710 or 272-4777 after

: ** 4 GA and 2 ~tudent, please call Jim Sue H. (Ft. Wayne), 
5:30P.M. I haven't seen you around much.
* 6931. But I'm still looking. Mike (NYCJ.
* 
1967 Olds Della 88, aged .veil, best

~* TO FREEPORT *: ;;e~d-;:-,;~~;;;;;~;-~ou Beau,
offer 289-8032, keep tryi:~g.
name f:.IICe call 8121. 

How's my Dutch Rabbit? Casey's
* * ---------------House for sale, Edison Park, 3 jealous. I can't wait until we are
* * Need Marqu.ctte fix, call Brian, 
bedroom, full basement, fenced formally together again.* * 1606. yard. Call 233-851'.. Countess du Barry (oh, BARRY!), 
FOR RENT Time sure has flown when we're having fun. To the 23rd, Salut. 2 rooms for rent, $40, call 233-1329 The Duke 
i CONTACT ANY SENIOR ! %e2~2~~~~~~;;e-;~k;.~~all 
* * ;e~d~;;;;--;;,;;;;;;-,~~;;-t~,--;;.;-;;;nt* * or GA, will pay an-1 price, call Pete Got a question about drinking?
Next school year, 9-month lease,

: CLASS OFFICER : ~~~~~~---------two furnished houses, .ot bedroom Tonight's the night to get some 
and 5 bedroom near ND. Call answers. Come to the open discus.
* * Need 5 Marquette tickets, call 
234-2626. sion meeting of Alcoholics Anony.
* * Eileen or Marion at 6798. 
mous, 7:30, Athletic Dept. Audit., 
..

* * --------------­
Furnished Hous.,s, two to seven A~C Enter Gate 1 or 2. 
bedroom, available for September or --------------­
LOST AND FOUND
June.

*** THERE ARE A FEW *~ ------~~~~'=-----Call 234-9364.
will do typing, experienced, term .* * papers, manuscripts, etc. Call ---------------keys 511, and
Lost: 1067 2 sm1<11Summer houses and rooms for rent,
* 233-8512. keys. Reward, call 5754.
real close to campus, furnished, ridiculously reasonable, 233-2613 or ---------------,.­
~ SEATS AVAILABLE. ~ :;:-y;~~s~~~~p-;;-g~--p~;u-;;nd Lost: ladies' silver wrist watch on
232-7263.

"-* delivery $2.00. Call Dan at 272-5549 center quad. Call 7621. ********************************** --------------­
for good 62-60 with a short jumper.  
But  the  Gamecocks  refused  to  
yield.  and  it  was  up  to  Duck  
Williams to keep the Irish on top.  
Williams connected on six of ten  
in the second half, many in the final  
minutes of the game when ND was  
in  its  4-corner  offense ,  and  the  
Irish held off the scrappy Game­ 
cocks for the victorv.  
"They had the superior talent,"  
conceded McGuire.  "Thev had the  
size, rebounding, and Paterno had  
a great game. They're just a better  
team."  
English's 32 point effort was the  
most points scored against the Irish  
this season.  The  senior center hit  
on II of 19 from the field and I 0 of  
II free throws.  Dunleavy was next  
for Carolina with 20 points.  Gilloon  
had twelve.  
Dantley  came  back  with  IJ  
second-half points  to  tinish  with  
17. third  highest  for  the  Irish.  
Williams  added  1o to  complete  
another balanced scoring effort by  
Phclp's crew.  Dave Batton led ND  
in rebounds with eight.  The Irish  
barclv  retained  their  string  of  
outrcbounding their opponents this  
season as they gained a slim 34-32  
advantage over the Gamecocks.  .  
The ei~hth  victory was Notre Dame's in a r;lw. and ISth in their  I '  - 
la~t  Io  outing.,.  Their  record  
stand., now at 20-4.  South Carolina  
dropped to a  15-8 rccnrd.  
The  Irish  conclude  their  four  
game  road  trip  on  Wednesday  
night when the~·  tra1cl to Da~·ton.  Bill  Paterno,  here  driving  against  West  Virginia,  scored  a  
Ohio to meet the Dayton Flyers.  career-high 23 points as the Irish topped South Carolina Saturday  
[photo by Chris Smith].  

Monday, February 23, 197b
the observer
8 

Paterno, Batton batter Gamecocks 


b\ Bill Brink Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's constantly-rotat­ing wheel of fortune spun around again. and this time it was numbers 
55. 45. and 25 that came out on top. Fitting perfectly into the "new hero every game" design, Bill Paterno,(SS) and Dave Batton. ( 45), came up with career-high ,c·oring efforts and Duck Williams, '?.5). added IS important second­ll;df points to spur the Irish to an 
impressive 90-83 victory over South Cawlina before a sell-out crowd of 
12.3 Io fans in Carolina Coliseum 
'\aturdav. The defeat was the second in a

t 
row t'or Frank McGuire's Game­n>ck.,, the tirst time thev have ever lost 1\1 o consecutive games in the

t 
t 
c·oliwum. The Irish'~ seven-point margin al~ll prnved to be the widest margin of dckat ever for Carolina 
bdorc a Coli!-.<.'Uill crowd. Irish c·oach Digger Phelp~ breathed a '>i~h nf relief after bucking such

r 
llltds. 
"Snuth Carolina has nothing to he ashamed of." he said. "They're a~ golld a team as we've played on the road. We got the spurt at the L'nd and that''> what counted." 
Paterno and Batton became the :;tar'> nf the da1· when Carolina's 
NOTRE DAME (tf) 
rg n "'b p1 pts 
Adrian Danll!'v 5-13 1·H 6 3 17 
Btll Paterno ·. ll·IR 1-2 4 I 2:1 
Dave Batton ~16 2·2 8 2 20 
Don William~ 6-12 4-6 2 I 16 
Bruce Flowen; 2-3 f).J 4 2 4 
Toby Kni~ht 3-7 1).0 4 5 6 
Ray Martm 14 0.0 5 2 BemardRencher 1·2 1).0 I 1 2 Totals . 33-75 14-19 34 17 90 
SOlTTH CAROLINA (SS) 
lg It rell pf pts Alex English .. 11-19 10.11 5 2 32 Nate Da~is .. .. 7·13 1).6 8 5 14 Bob Mathias . 2-6 1).0 II 4 4 Mike Dunleavy 10.15 1).0 3 5 20 Jack Gilloon .. 6-14 1).6 3 I 12 Rilly Truitt . f).J H I I I Stu Klitenic . . 1).0 fi..O 0 6 6 Mark Greiner 0.1 ().6 1 0 6 Bryan Grevey o.n 0.0 0 0 0 Totals.. 36-69 11·12 32 IM 83 
Women's b-ball team wins twice 
by Eileen O'Grady 
The Notre Dame women took a doubleheader weekend of basket­ball, defeating St. Joe's Renssalaer on Thur~dav and St. Francis on Saturday. This brings their record to t-5. 
In the St. Joe's game. the Irish defense proved victorious once again. Mary Clemency at guard and Bonita Bradshaw at center were especially successful at blocks and steals setting it up for the h ot Irish offense. 
Notre Dame dominated the boards in the first half. 26-18. Clemency took the scoring in the half with 10 points. capitalizing on fast breaks and rebounds. The Irish also proved more accurate on foul ~hots. connecting on more than 
oO "'" of them. 
THe second half proved fairly uneventful until the last four minutes when the Pumettes began 
to put it all together. Bringing the '>core up to 40-34. the Irish starters came back in. 
But St. Joe's came back again on ~ucccssful foul shots building up the pressure to 45-42. With good lri.,h hustling. .Judy Shiely scored on a lav-up. followed by another lay-up and rebound score by Lall, making the final score 51-47. Carol L.dlv. at guard. was again the highpoint woman for the Irish. ~c·oring 15 points. 
In the S'l. Francis game Bonita Bradshaw. starting at centeer, led the Irish to a 49-44 win. Bradshaw, hustling for good second efforts ont the boards. connected for 12 points and was the Irish high point scorer. 
Coach Sally Duffy also used a lot of substitution. After four minutes, she pulled out some of the starters. 
Becky Banasiak. Byrne Murphy and Jayne O'Reilly replaced them and kept St. Francis scoreless for 10 minutes. 
The cagers take on St. Mary's Wednesday night in the ACC pit. 

tough 2-3 zone. defense shackled Irish All-America and leading scorer Adrian Dantley. The Game­cocks doubled up on A.D. and took away his inside game, leaving Paterno and Batton free to hit the outside jumper. something they both did consistently throughout the game. Paterno's 23 points and Batt0n's 20 broke their career highs in scoring. 
··Adrian came to me in the first half and said 'They're dropping off on me. I know Billy will be open'," explained Phelps. "That's the kind of kid he is, unselfish and readv to do what's best for the team." ­
For their part. 'Apple' and Batton were rcadv for the chall­enge. Batton -hit three long jumper., at the beginning of the game, and with the Gamecocks shifting toward Dantley 's corner. Paterno cam through with some of hi., patented long bombs and a few btll·keb inside. too. But Carolina's star center Alex English was nearly unstoppable underneath the basket and coupled with some fine outside shooting b~· Mike Dunleavy and .lack Gilloon. the Gamecocks mov­ed to a -tl-38 half-time lead. 
Dantlev went to the outside in the seco;1d half and began to hit from the 15 foot range and Paterno continued hi., tenacious all-around play. The two teams battled back and forth fnr the tirst few minutes 
until Dunleavy was hurt and had to leave the game. The lri-.h fought back from a four-point deficit and Dantley put them on top 
NO Hockey team splits with Spartans 
by Chip Scanlon 
Notre Dame's Irish leers found as many weaknesses in the Michigan State defense as the NCAA found in the Spartan recruiting program as thev outscored MSU II to 9 cnroute to a series split. Lefty Smith's squad lost another tough one on Fridav. 7-6. but trounced the Spartans in a penalty filled 60 minutes, S-2. on Saturday. 
Friday night saw Lefty's bunch experience a roller coaster ride that had them up and down all night. The Irish saw the visiting Spartans take an early lead on the strength of the high scoring Tom Ross, but ll'ss than two minutes later Notre Dame blueliner Dan Byers scored his first goal of the season. 
The early going was to be indicative of the style of the game that the boisterous crowd was to see. Daryl Rice. the sixth leading scorer in the WCHA, whipped a wrist shot past a surprised Len Moher from the face-off circle and again the lead switched hands. 
Notre Dame's objective this weekend was to give their best effort and show their fans the kind of hockey they are capable of playing, and in the last half of the second period the Irish used goals bv stellar dcfenseman .lack Brown­schidle and the explosive Brian Walsh to do just that. 
The second period was the one that broke the back of the Irish as Michigan State scored four goals to two on an even number of shots on goal. 
Joe Campbell started things off for the Spartans with less than two minutes gone in the period and Brian Walsh followed his score with his fifteenth of the vear. 
But the seesaw battle-continued and this time it was MSU's Marty McLaughlin and NO's Alex Pirus who were along for the ride. Then the exchange that decided the game occurred when .John Sturgess and Tom Ross scored back to back for the only two scores of the second half of the middle period. 
All this left for the Spartans was to match the Irish goal for goal the rest of the way and that was exactly what they did. Don Fairholm scored early in the final period and it looked like it was comeback time again for the Irish, but Daryl Rice scored on the power play while Clark Hamilton and Pat Novitzki 
were  serving time in  the penalty  
box.  
The  Irish  penalty  killers  had  

handled everything that the Spart­ans threw at them pretty well, but 

the two man advantage for State was just too much. Again MSU scored at clo.,c range and Lenny 
Moher was the victim of unattend­ed Spartans standing on the door­step. 
Moher. who was not as bad as the seven goals scored appears, made three stops in succession from point blank range and one was made on his back as he batted the puck out of mid-air into the corner. 
But a bigger factor in Moher's demise was the fact that twice Irish dcfensemen tipped in shots on the sophomore goalie. Those things happen but it is exceptional hard luck when it happens twice in one night. 
The following night the hard luck didn't bother Notre Dame as much and they thoroughly dominated the Spartans winning S-2 in a game that had everything.especially pen­alties. The Irish were able to score five goals and commit 16 infrac­tions enroute to one of the soundest wins of the season. 
Although Tom Ross got Michigan State rolling early on his third goal of the series. Notre Dame directed the action from here on in. Paul Clarke, the Irish defenseman who ignites the crowd whenever he touches the puck, beat Dave Versi­cal to the far side as he raced down 
the right wing after Geoff Collier 
sent him in with a break-out pass 
from the Irish zone. 
Then. less that two minutes 
later. lightning struck again and 
Dave Versical was again the victim 
of Paul Clarke's crisp wrist shot. 
This time Clarke's goal was a 
powc!' play one rather than a 
short-handed one and it was set up 
by passes by Clark Hamilton and 
Alex Piru.,. 
The talc of the second period turned out to be Donny Fairholm's stick as it provided the referees with some aggravaton, the crowd with someting to boo about and the Irish with one less center. 
Fairholm was caught using an illegal stick which had a Iitle too much curve and it cost him a 10 minute misconduct. But as soon as Donny got out of the box he was able to reallv "stick" it in State coach Amo Bessone's ear by sett­ing up wingers AI Karsni·a and Kevin Nugenf for goals' in the remaining five minutes of the middle period. 
In the third period Daryl Rice kept his torrid scoring pace by beating Irish goalie John Peterson with alittle more that two minutes left. but the real highlight of the final frame was John Peterson. 
For the second week in a row Paul Clarke caught an edge and found himself on the ice while an opposing attacker skated in alone on Peterson. But unlike last Friday night. Peterson was equal to the task and made a pad save to thwart a possible Spartan comeback. 
This may have been a turning point for the Irish goalie who has been having a rough time of it lately. According to Lefty Smith, "John came up with the key saves to keep us ahead all night." and this is just what the Irish need going into the WCHA playoffs. 
Another strong point was what Smith called "titanic forechecking that stifled the MSU offense." Defense is what wins hockey games, the Irish found oot on Friday night. 
The part of the defense that stands apart from the blueline sorps, penalty killers Olive, Novit­z,ki. Karsnia. and Don Fairholm, managed to smother the State power play on all but three of twelve attempts oner the weeken 
The Irish remain home next weekend to take ori the Bulldogs of Minnesota-Duluth. 


