-~----­
Absenteeism approaches 25°/o 

idemic grips campus

by Mike Vlllanl Staff Reporter 

,;'II 
An epidemic, according to Notre Dame biology professor Ralph E Thorson, "occurs when a large number of a cetain areas' popula­tion are affected by a specific disease." 
Such is the case on the Notre Dame campus where classroom absences approach 25 per cent yesterday due to the existence of an irritating flu bug. Prof. Thorson, a parisitologist, suspects this flu bug to be a new strain of influenza virus, whose origin and length of duration have yet to be found. 
According to Dr. Robert Thomp­son. University physician, it "wouldn't be inaccurate to guess that its start began over Christman recess and spread on campus with the return of the students and a change in weather. He recommen­ded rest, high fluid intake and to avoid contact with known sources. 
The change in weather and improper dress [no hats, open coats] have helped to contribute to the recent outbreak of the flu. If already under the weather, it is recommended that you get plenty of sleep, and have a high fluid intake. A cancelling of 8 O'clock classes would go far to n>medy the lack of sleep problem. [Photo by Tony Chifari] 
Tomorrow marks the start of Mardi Gras, the traditional winter event for Notre Dame and St. Mary's. Mardi Gras will last until Sunday, Feb. 8. 
Mardi Gras committee member Peggy Foran indicated some of the problems they've run into. "Mardi Gras has a spirit all its own; but with anything which involves prep­arations, problems do arise." 
She continued. "Our biggest problem right now is getting enough time to do everything and getting enough manpower to do it." 
Foran singled out senior John Hedges as an example. "John's work has just begun," she said. "He is in charlle of bookkeepin~ 
Algerians report violence against Moroccan troops 
ALGIERS, Algeria (AP) -Algeria reported "violent combat" Wed­nesday between Moroccan and Algerian troops in a cold, bleak area of the Spanish Sahara as other Arab countries scrambled to avert a desert war between the two North African neighbors. 
There were no independent re­ports of the second day of fighting on the rock-covered plains, and the official Moroccan press agency said it had no confirmation of the Algerian communique. 
Algeria, which opposes the plan­ned division of the phosphate-rich territory between Morae and Maur­itania when Spain ends colonial rule Feb. 28, said the fight ran from morning through afternoon. 
The Algerian government news agency did not specify the place but said the clash was in relation to one Tuesday, reported around Amg­hala oasis about 175 miles south­west of the Algerian border along the Saharan frontier with Mauri­tania. Moroccans have also clashed in recent weeks with Saharan guerrillas of the pro independence Polisario liberation front in the area. 
There was no mention of casual­ties or the number of troops involved Wednesday. A Moroccan official had said there apparently were many deaths in Tuesday's action. 
The-.combat area is covered by dry washes and stagnant marshes with low bushes. Sand dunes are a rarity, and at this time of year temperatures are often below freezing. Constant icy winds whip up dust storms. 
In the diplomatic effort, Pres­ident Anwar Sadat of Egypt and Habib Bourguiba of Tunisia were reported to have telephoned both President Houari Boumedienne of Algeria and King Hassan II of Morocco. 
Boumedienne talked with Pres­ident Hafaz Assad of Syria, who dispatched his army chief of staff, Maj. Gen. Hikmat Chihabi, to Algiers. 
Sr. Miriam Dolores, infirmary administrator, estimated a report­ed student cases since Tuesday, Jan. 20 and suspects that many more exist. In the past two days, 30 students have remained over­night for short-term ivsits. Sr. Dolores attributed the number of recent cases to "improper dress and contact with known sources." 
When questioned as to the possibility of administering flu vaccine to the student body, Thompson said ''there would not be a sufficient time period for the immunity to take hold and would would therefore be useless.'' Thompson cited Holy Cross Hall as showing the earliest indication of the influenza and claimed that to his knowledge and that of local practioners only a few faculty members were among the original cases reported. However, such cases have increased in number since faculty-student contact began with the new semester. 
Investigation on the St. Mary's campus revealed similar condi­tions. 
According to Mrs. Verna Woods, director of student health, 63 influenza cases have been reported since Sunday, Jan. 18, and the seven-bed infirmary has been ex­tended to 18 of which 14 beds are occupied. 
At present the Notre Dame infirmary is waiting for results from samples sent to Indianapolis, which will help determine the virus' origin and lenght of duration. 
It appears that this inflrJCnza is confined to the Notre Dame con­munity. County Physician Dr. William McCraley claimed that no epidemic exists in the city or county. 
However. there may be residents of the county who are ill and do not report to their doctors or clinics for reasons of cost. The free health service at Notre Dame enables the infirmary to get a better idea as to the extent of the illness here. 

by Margie lrr Staff Reporter 
J 

the observer Thursday, january 29, 1976 

----News Briefs--­
~:::::::=::::::::=::::::::=::::::::=::::::::=::::::::=:=======N ational 
Woman ambassador named 
WASHINGTON-Anne Armstrong was confirmed unanimously by the Senate yesterday to be the first woman U.S. ambassador to Great and Northern Ireland. 

Jury selection closed 
SAN FRANCISCO -Acting at the request of both sides, a federal judge abruptly closed jury selection in the Patricia Hearst bank robbery trial to the press and most of the public yesterday. 
The unexpected secrecy, believed to be without precedent in this federal court district, was imposed only momements after U.S. District Court Judge Oliver J. Carter invited the press to follow him to an adjoining courtroom for questioning of potential jurors on the impact of publicity about the case. But they found the doors locked. 

(:;ongress overrides Ford's veto 
WASHINGTON -President Ford lost his first battle of the 1976 session with the Democratic Congress on a spending issue yesterday. -The Senate, by a comfortable a70-24 margin, joined the House in overriding Ford's veto of a $45 billion money bill and thus enacted it into law. The House rejected the veto Tuesday 310 to 113. 
The appropriations measure carries funds for politically popular health, welfare and job programs, but it is almost $1 billion over the President's budget request. 
====:::-::====~======================Local 
INDIANAPOLIS -A proposed constitutional amendment to allow a state lottery died Wednesday night in the Indiana House. 

---On Campus Toda!;'--­
3 p.m. meeting, college of arts and letters, college council meeting, room 202 cce. 
3:30p.m. computer course, "ibm job control language (jcl) and utilities," room 115, computer center math bldg. 
3:30p.m. design of humanistic work series, "current blue and white collar perspectives" by ted mills, director, national quality of work center, washington, d.c. hayes-healy aud. sponsored by sperry & hutchinson foundation grant and business administration. 
4:30p.m. discussion, informal discussion with the san quentin drama workshop, little theatre smc.
I7,30 p.m. ..,...l;ng, dcake un;ve,.;ty at nd, ace aux;l;a'Y gym. 
Dr. Schuler named director of ND Radiation Labora~ory 
Dr. Robert H. Schuler, director of the Radiation Research Labora­tories at Carnegie-Mellon Universi­ty in Pittsburgh, has been named director of the Radiation Laborator­y at Notre Dame 
In making the announcement, Fr. James T. Burtchaell, provost, also said that Schuler and Dr. Richard W. Fessenden, professor of chemistry at C-MU, have been named professors in the Depart­ment of Chemistry. The appoint­ments are effective July 1, 1976. 
Schuler and Fessenden expect to be joined by several colleagues in a 

B t h as 
ey ag SpeakS tO Chemistry Department from 1967 
Pre-Law Society 
Notre Dame Law Professor Fran­cis X. Beytagh will address the members of the Notre Dame Pre­Law Society on Feb. 2, in room 117 of Hagger Hall at 7:30. 
Prof. Beytagh was assistant to the solicitor general of the United States before he joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1970. He is a magna cum laude Notre Dame garaduate and holds a law degree from the university of Michigan, where he was editor~ in-chief of the Michigan Law Review. After grad­uation from law school, Prof. Beytagh clerked for Chief Justice Earl Warren. 
Monday night's discussion will center around the University of Toledo Law School since Prof. Beytagh will assume the deanship there in the fall. Other aspects of law school will also be included in the meeting. 
Anyone interested in applying to law school is urged to attend this session. 
consolidation of the Carnegie-Mel­lon and Notre Dame radiation laboratories. 
Schuler succeeds Dr. John L. Magee, who has resigned to return to teaching and to his research in theoretical radiation chemistry at Notre Dame. Dr. Bernard Wald­man, dean of the College of Science, is serving as acting direc, tor in the interim. 
Magee has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1948, serving as acting director of the Computing Center from 1960 to 1963 and chairman of the 
to 1970. He was appointed as the laboratory's second director in 1971, secceding its founder, Dr. Milton Burton. 
A specialist in radiation and phy­sical chemistry, Schuler was a chemist with Brookhaven National Laboratory before joining the Mel­lon Institute anq.,Carnegie Institute of Technology, he also has been a professor in the Department of Chemistry. 


San Quentin Drama 





Workshop to present Endgame 
ett's "Endgame" on Friday, Jan.
By Ann Barnard 
30, at 8 p.m., in O'Laughlin 

Staff Reporter Auditorium at Saint Mary's. 
This special production will be The San Quentin Drama Work­presented at the Royal Court shop, under the direction of Rick Theatre in London to celebrate Cluchey, will present Samuel Beck-Beckett's seventieth birthday in 
Faculty Senate to sponsor collective bargain lecture 
The Faculty Senate will sponsor the third in a series of informative discussions on collective bargain­ing tonight at 7:30 in the University Club. 
Keith R. Kleckner, associate provost at Oakland University in Rochester, Michigan, will give a 
Sen. Bayh travels to Maryland 
COLUMBIA* Md. (AP) -Indi­
ana Sen. Birch Bayh brought his 
Democratic presidential campaign 
to Maryland on Wednesday and 
was confronted by opponents of 
legal abortion. After outlining his 
platform before about 150 persons, 
Bayh threw the meeting open to 
questions. 
Two women, representing a 
group of 20 people wearing "Right 
to Life" buttons and holding red 
roses, chided the senator for not 
endorisng a constitutional amend­
ment to ban most types of abor­
tion. 
"You are saying it is all right to 
kill," one ofthe women said. Bayh 
replied that he was "Personally 
opposed to abortion" but that he 
believes "each individual must 
make that decision." 
"I don't want the federal govern­
ment coming into the lives of 10 
million women who use birth 
control devices saying 'You are 
committing abortion.' It's an 
invasion of privacy," he said. 
ERRATUM 
Dr. Vincent Goddard ofthe Notre 
Dame Aerospace Engineering De­
partment was incorrectly identified 
in a picture cutline as Dr. Vincent 
Pollard in yesterday's Observer. 
A picture of Dr. Harvey Bender 
was incorrectly included in the 
article about Dr. Morris Pollard. 
Dr. Bender is involved in tissue 
research. 



(*The Observerl 
Night Editor: AI Rutherford 
Ass't Night Editor: Jim Stevens 
layout Staff: Jack D' Aurora 
Day Editor: Eileen O'Grady 
Copy Reader: Ken Bradford 
Features: W.S. Nichols, Tom 
O'Neil 
Sports: Tom Kruczek 
Typists: Neil Viii, Judy A. S.S. 
late Typist: Bob Steinmetz 
Picture Screener: Tony Chifari lAd layout: Pat Russell 
The Obserller is published Nooday through R"iday illd week!y during the surrrner session, exrept during the exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subso"iptions may be purdlased tor $18 ($10 per semester) fro'Tl The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Sealnd Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

1 RACE WITH THE DEVIL 
7:45, 9:45 MON -FRI 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 SAT & s_uN 

MAN DINGO 
7:00 , 9:30 MON -FRI 2:00, 4:30, 6:45, 9:15 SAT & SUN 
l?()iler-tl()u~e r=lix 
TWIN THEATRES-100 CENTER-MISHAWAKA-255-951 
I • • • , • , f 'f t t • • ..... ' ~ / ' • I I • fl' " f' ' ~ "' ' • 
(' ( ' t . • , • , 1-"" ~ ~ ~ • 
short presentation on the issue asnd answer questions from a panel of Notre Dame faculty. The floor will then be opened to questions from the audience. The meeting is open to the public and faculty members are especially encouraged to attend. 
The Faculty Senate is sponsoring discussions in response to a faculty referendum conducted last spring. At that time, 25 per cent of the faculty indicated they favored col­lective bargaining, 25 per cent said they opposed it, and SO per cent requested more information. The discussions were designed to present both sides of the issue in an informative manner. 
Members of the faculty panel tonight will be professors Fred­erick Dow, John Lyon, Edward Manier and Michael Francis. 
April of this year. The play is billed at Beckett's apocalyptic vision of life in the aftermath of nuclear holocaust. 
In "Endgame", there are but four characters -a blind man who cannot walk, his arthritic servant who cannot sit, and the blind man's parents, who are nearly vege­tables. They present an embittered yet fascinating picture: of life. 
Cluchey, who grew up in Chica­go's South Side, founded the San Quentin Drama Workshop as an inmate at the prison in 1957. A celebrated writer himself, Cluchey has experimented with the works of Beckett since early 1961. Recently he assist~.d Beckett in the play­right's own production of "Waiting for Godot" in West Berlin. 
The San Quentin Drama Work­shop has been highly endorsed by Beckett. He permits them to perform any of his works without payment of royalty. The Workshop has played extensively throughout the United States and Europed, to wide critical acclaim. 
Tickets for students, faculty and staff are $2. General admission is $2.50. Additional ticket informa­tion may be obtained by calling the Programming Office at 284-4176. 
525 N. HILL ST.

GOLD TRIANGLE SAT. ,JAN 31 
*EDDIE FLOYD* 
Singing his No. 1 TOP HITS ­(KNOCK ON WOOD & CALIFORNIA GIRL) 
Also Appearing DEVIL 'S WORKSHOP 
i n 0 & Sat. Jan 31



fnumomnllrH·e;OsreRPiAcEmi 
l100 11 x17 POSTERS only $10.00 I
·I • • ~ 
i •nsty-pr•nts ~ 
I i203 N. MAIN ST. i SOUTH BEND 289-6977 I 
.imuuut01UWIIIIII801--UWIIIIIIIIIIIIIII·m•t-IIDII&IIIIII 'IIEP"d 
DIRE<T. DIAMOND IMPORTERS ~ 
f
.I\V~--JEWELERS ;VA_. SINCE.1917: 
0 

Downtown South Bend .~. Town & Country Shc;»pping C~nter , Concord Moll, Elkhart 'Biackmonds, Nii(l!s II' 
1·1 fOI'! fOI"I fOlll fOI'I fOll'l fOll I fOil fOIL'I fOI'I •ot ~ 
SPECIAL 10% DISCOUNT ON AL MERCHANDISE TO NOTRE DAM & ST. MARY'S STUDENTS 
Pitcher Beer Night WITH 

COMMON PEOPLE 
White House Inn 
8 mi. N. of State Line 
Take 31 to Niles then North on 5 J, 
3 miles. 683-9842 
,'' 

Thursday, january 29, 1976 the observer 
Men remained fortified 



Lebanese troops armed despite cease-fire 
BEIRUT• Lebanon (AP) -Armed  last night," a Syrian army lieuten­ The deadline, fixed by the mixed  
men  remained  in  their  fortified  ant admonished a group of leftist  truce commission of Syrian, Leban­ 
positions Wednesday along a strip  Moslem gunmen. All gunmen were  ese  and  Palestinian officers,  was  
devastated1 houses separating the  supposed to have withdrawn by 6  accepted by all the warring sides.  
embattled  Moslem  and  Christian  p.m. Tuesday.  Despite the delay in clearing the  
sections of Beirut despite efforts by  'We haven't  received  any  such  streets of gunmen and rival fortifi­ 
a  cease-fire  truce  commission  to  orders, so we are staying," replied  cations, Moslem leftist and right­ 
clear the area.  the local leader of the gunmen in  wing spokesmen claimed publicly  
"Why  are  you  still  here?  the Moslem residential quarter of  that  the  five-day-oidSyrian-spon­ 
Everyone was ordered to move out  Chiah.  sored disengagement program "is  


Men mass murder mice 
by Matt Kane so happy about the mouse hunt. work has been done on the site and Jim Twist of room 1120 said he 
since the beginning of January. He Ken Bradford thought the mice were carrying had no evidence on how the mice Staff Reporters some sort of insidious disease. "It entered the building, but hinted MASS MURDER IN GRACE seems to be a standing joke around 
they could have been brought in as 
I here," Twist said, "But it could be a prank. Other opinions defied credibility: 
Thirteen trapped, poisoned and serious." ffocated in week-long spree. Twist also complained that the Desmond jokingly accused It never even made the front hall rector, Fr. Robert Huneke, was administration of planting the 
of the campus paper. But 13 not very responsive to the situa­to stir up controversy in an wise uneventful year; Talamo
field mice were liquidated last tion. 
the mice naturally moved to
week on the eleventh floor of Grace Fr. Huneke said he heard Twist's r in the largest extermination request and filled out a work order eleventh floor since there would drive in recent Notre Dame history. for the maintenance departmcn1t. no stomping from above to disturb "As long as I don't hear anything, I their sleep; and Hartigan blamed The Rodents, which had invaded presume the problem is solved," his roommate. "They seem to be attracted
dormitory in early January, Huneke said. first spotted by Frank Cos­Walter Jaworski, University in­the grubbiest people," noted. ' 'And Talamo hasn't
ana of room 1127, on Jan. 15, as a terior maintenance director, was mouse emerged from under unaware of the Grace mice slaugh­changed his pillow sheet. That' no's bed. Other residents of ter until he was approached by an how much of a dirtball he is." section were reluctant to be­Observer reporter. Grace residents Talamo was not available to added that they have had no showhis pillow sheet and refute
Cosiano's story, but the t assistant, Pat Desmond, contact with any maintenance per­Hartigan's charges. finally persuaded to buy some sonnel concerning. the incident. While other members of the section await the arrival of the
traps. 

exterminators, Talamo, Casiano
began on Sunday, and Hartigan would rather the professional mousers never come. They claim they haven't had soTwo mice died of neck wounds 

much fun in the four years they
received in a mousetrap set in 
have been here. They are all
1125. On that same day, another 
pre-meds.
mouse ventured forth from beneath 
The mouse invasion has "'"'"'''iPn
Casiano's bed. 
a rich source of jokes and pranks.
"It hid in some papers," Casiano 
One early incident occurred when 
reported. "You wouldn't believe 
mouse ran up a janitor's leg,
the way they can hide. So we 
throwing him into a panic. One
(Casiano and roommate Dan Harti­
resident's mother refused to be­
gan) flushed it out and Jim Talamo 
lieve her son's claim of mice in the
bed his pillow and clubbed it to 
dorm so he sent her one in the mail. The method the mice useu to Another dead rodent was present­won the nickname of 
infiltrate the eleventh floor is still ed to the hall rector, but most were
'Great White Hunter" by bagging 
unknown and the topic is widely unceremoniously flushed down toi­
total of three mice in the next 
debated. Huneke said he believes lets or sent out with the trash.
tops in the section. 
the mice were chased from the A coroner's list is posted in
The majority of the mice, how­
excavation site for the new grad­suite to keep score for the mou
were killed by traps set in the 
uate housing complex on Bulla hunters and on one door a picture
lings at night. "They were so 
Road. He postulated that they of a mouse is posted each
d they woke me up one night," 
entered Grace through the receiv­another rodent bites the dust.
no said. "So I got up and put 
ing room door and somehow Talamo, Casiano, and Hartigan
trap up in the ceiling and 15 
worked their way up to the top said they hope to capture at
utes later -snap! -Unbelieve­
floor. one live mouse so they can conduct Jaworski said Huneke's theory is a scientific investigation into the 
-Fri.­
7 :30-9:45 
-SAT.-SUN.­1:45-3:t15 S:tiS-7:45 10:00 

tiD @@~ t[l[[Q@] [}TI[j@ @J©® Ian R rated, rather kinky tale of survival! 
LQ/Jaf'"H"" 'A BOY AND HIS DOG' """"• DON JOHNSON· SUSANNE BENTON'"' ALVY MOORE J.,"....""'""""'""''JASON ROBARDS! Technicolon• ~ I NOONE~~~~~~s;r--rs... 
Reduced Price!'------~----" Midnite Shows Fri.-Sat. -Take Your Pick! "The Ro · 

a remarkable success." tourist hotel towers in downtown 
The cease-fire ended a 10-month Beirut. An official announcement civil war. The Moslems wanted Tuesday said the area had been changes in the minority Christian­cleared. dominated government but the 
Lebanese armored cars took upChristians maintained they could positions at several road intersec­only occur after settlement of the tions in this area and an official issue of Palestinian refugees in announcement said they had orders Lebanon. 
to shoot any gunmen disobeyingApart from isolated shots in the their orders. 
adjacent heighborhoods of Moslem Lebanon's six-man cabinet had 
Chiah and Christian Ein Rumman­
ND 
MC ENDGAME 
bySarrl.e~ 

JANUARY30, 1976 a 8:oo P.M. All Seas $2.50 
O'IAl.ODJN AlDIDIIUM (Std-~ $2.00) 
(ONE mn<DRMAN:E ONOO
Rme: 284-41.76 


rnictlae~s 
hair st~LinQ
etc. 

FOR APPT. CALL: 272-7222 18381EDISON RD.ATSO.BENOAVE. 
I $1.00 off $.50 off 
I 

I any
I any
I 

I I I 14 inch Pizza 10 inch Pizza 
I 

limit 1 coupon per pizza
I limit 1 coupon per pizza
I 
I 
713 E. Jefferson

I 713 E. Jefferson 
IJ Expires Feb. 1 Expires Feb. 1 


~-------------------J-------------------~ 


---~
-~-.,,, ,.,.,,.,.,·~·.. 
• • I l I I • .·,•. '•', ', '' 

4 the observer Thursday, January 29, 1976 



AnTostal preparations underway 
by Joe Straub Staff Reporter 
In the spring semester, students have two big events to look forward to--Mardi Gras and An Tostal. 
An Tostal is an ancient Gaelic term meaning "festival" and Notre Dame's Hall President Council sponsors a three-day affair that is just that--quite a festival. 
This year, An Tostal will run from Thursday, April 22, through 

British mercenaries go to fighting Angola 
LONDON (AP) -Dozens of tough 

looking British mercenaries, hired 
to fight in Angola, flew out of 
London for Africa on Wednesday. 
They were bound via Burssels for 

Kinshasa, Zaire, which backs the 
Western-supported liberation 
group known as the National Front 
-FNLA -in heighboring Angola. 
The FNLA and its ally, the National Union-UNITA-has been losing to Soviet-backed forces of the Popular Movement -MPLA -in the civil war for control of the former Portuguese colony. 
The men were generally close­

mouthed and dodged photograph­
ers as they went through security 
checks and sat drinking tea await­
ing their flights. 
But some were quoted as saying 

they had been recruited by a firm 
called Security Advisory Services 
inSurrey, a county soughwest of 
Londod, and were to be paid $300 a 
week, tax free, by the Zaire 
government. 
Between 40 and SO men departed on a first flight and about 100 others followed later Wednesday. 
''This is a spearhead. There could be a lot more following," one of the many Scots in the group said before boarding the plane. He spoke with a reporter from Bre­nards, a news agency specializing in airport coverage. 
It was the first reported move­ment of troops from Britain into teh conflict, where South African mer­cenaries have backed one faction in the south. Some 10,000 Cuban soldiers are reported fighting for the MPLA. The U.S. Congress is blocking Ford administration ef­forts to support the FNLA. 
The British government has re­mained officially neutral in the struggle, deploring all foreign in­tervention. 
The London Evening Standard identified the recruiters as Les Aspin, not to be confused with the Wisconsin congressman of the same name and Frank Perren. Another recruiter, named as ex­paratrooper John Banks, was re­ported to have taken off with the contingent. 
************************..***** 

! JUNIORS!! ! 
* * 
:** Last Chance for Senior! # Yearbook Pictures! 
I 

II Thurs, Jan29 -Fri, Jan 30 f
1 
SIGN UP IN DINING HALL 
1 

FROM 5:15 6:30 pm OR CALL 7085 or 7524 from 7pm-9pm 
I 


****************************.. 
Saturday, April 24, about a week­
and-a-half before final exams. Although it is a Notre Dame event, the An Tostal committee is compos­ed of about SO per cent St. Mary's Students. 
Sixty-four students attended the first meeting of the An Tostal committee last week. Bob Quakenbush heads this year's group, with Don Opal and Mary Siegel serving as assistants. 
"Anyone who wants to join or 

Brenards quoted a 6-foot-6 for­mer paratrooper in dark glasses, leather jacket and jeans who re­fused to give his name as saying: "We're in it for the money, nothing else. 
"We've been told to keep our mouths shut. This is worth hun­dreds of pounds to me, and there's no way I can get that kind of money doing anything else." 
"I found out about the job through a friend who had a friend who knew someone." 
Brenards quoted the Scotsman as saying the men had been promised a month's paid leave after six months of fighting and an air ticket ''to anywhere in the world" at the end of their service. 
The mercenaries were closely checked by Belgian state police before they left Brussels for Kinsha sa aboard a charted flight. 
A man who was wearing dark glasse and was not identified accompanied the group. He said: ''These men are going to fight world communism. Since Ameri­cans don't want to do anything, some people have to. In a few weeks, I'll be back with pictures of Communist prisoners." 
BAnks said the men had been recruited by Maj. Norman Hall, an adviser to FNLA leader Holden Roberto, who had also recruited for the Irish Republican Army and was linked to Middle East arms traders. 
Banks said four other smaller groups of British mercenaries passed through Brussels earlier on their way to Angola. 
Drama meeting cancelled today 

A discussion meeting with the San Quentin Drama Workshop scheduled for today at 4:30 p.m. in the St. Mary's Little Theatre has been cancelled. 
The Friday night performance of Endgames will go on as scheduled, at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditor­ium, the ND-SMC Drama De­partment announced yesterday. 
who missed last week's meeting is About 700 players participate in race about the track in a death­
welcome at this week's meeting the annual Iron Man bookstore defying race for fame. 
tonight at 9 in La Fortune Ball­basketball tournament. Another Further information about An 
room,'' Quakenbush said. ''The highlight is the famed Ben Hur Tostal can be obtained from Quak­
committee members usually have Chariot Race, in which gladiators enbush in room 407, Keenan Hall, more fun than work. They also 
or calling him at 336S.

r• ,............__________.,
receive An Tostal T-shirts." St. 
Mary's girls are especially needed 
I I
on the committee, Quakenbush 
added. I STARTS FRIDAY 1 
An Tostal is a complation of I I various events and activities. A 
I A. LAUGH FILLED FUN FLICK! ! I 
concert is usually included and past performers have been Santana and 
I 8111119 NITIIB ......OISB9 I
The Beach Boys. This year's concert group is yet to be announc­

ed. 1 ~~~~lhesamelwod~fr~ LEI'S II •: · I
1 Uptown ~~rda!l N!9ht... '1,.·.·:-I 
An abundance of various games I bullh1s lime lhe!jre IT lli&l• .;.,.. 
and contests also characterizes An I \ ~k wilh kid d!jn-o-milel U . ·.· I Tostal. The contests provide an ~ ~-\ RonWII<I/ERI!UiCI)AWII<IIIROJ,4W,I[AI(l't,(XMI<Wf lpGl rr-.. ' 
I ~<::i~, ~ <•o I
opportunity for the individual's single outstanding talent to come L--~.a.-.wa_.~I1M~--.J to force. Events like the imperson­
ation contest, the pie-eating con­test, the jello toss and the Ugliest Man on Camous competition are 
JUst a few examples. Many of the would-be entertain­
I
ers on campus take part in the An Tostal Amateur Hour, performers range from the gifted to the 
:
sorrowful talentless. 

: 
: 
*
i 
~ 
: 
: 
* 
:THURSDAY H HAPPY HOUR" 5-11 pm.: 
*

i 7g7's ONLY-----25¢!!!! : * * 
*••································~ 
TH( 





<ftuttn's (astlt 
WRCOMES 


I\nig(Jts 

• NEW CONCEPT in unisex hairstyling for Men and Ms., located on our lower level. 
e SIP COFFEE by the fireplace in a relaxed atmosphere. e COMPLETE PRIVACY in our individual styling units. 
latest in men's hairstyling -• FAST SERVICE for carefree cuts and 
the FREEDOM look! blow styles. 
e WE FEA TVRE RK products. 
MANICURES for men $4 PRECISION CUTS $5 HAIRCUTS $4 BLOW STYLING $4.50 
PERMANENT wAviNG bv NATURAL MAN s2s $1.00 OFF A PRECISION CUT WITH BLOW STYLING WITH YOUR ND OR SMC 10. 
~~~. 

Fill e~ Faa~e SlgrWe 

Shopping Center. Tues., Wed., Sat. 8:30 -5:30, Thurs. & Fri. 8:30 -8:30 PHONE 277 1691 

"~t\i\B{lifr ~ 




···~ ac-:··· :*
BRINGS BACK : THE H SUPER SPECIAL , WEEK! : :
MONDAY-THURSDAY: : 14 Oz. DRAFT·····40¢ ~ MIXED DRINKS ·····SO¢ t BOTTLE BEER····· 50¢ ~ 
* 



.--.·..,..-,-· T -;-rr-;-; I ' • • . • . • •• ••.••: •:.•:' 

EDITOR'S NOTE: This Is the second part of a tre-partlte article by Kathy Mills, Observer Staff Reporter. In this series, we shall examine the situation and phUosophy of drinking at Notre Dame. 
In view of the facts and the large number of college students who drink, the alcohol conference, cosponso.red by the NIAAA and Notre Dame's student govern­ment, stressed prevention of alcoholism and emphasized the need to promote attitudes of "responsible drinking" es­pecially on college campuses. 
"We must address ourselves to the 
business of prevention. This is the key to 
the goal of re-educating and preventing 
alcoholism and alcohol abuse in our 
country." Donald G. Phelps, director of 
the Division of Prevention of the NIAAA, 
t01d the delegates to the conference. 
Phelps also noted academic communities are often the places where people take their first drinks. "This may be the most ·•mrwrtant one," he added. There are pressures to drink on the campuses, delegates noted, and, because of these pressures and the desire to belong and be accepted, a "responsible decision-making may not occur." Representatives from the University of Wisconsin at Madison point­
ed out the example of a student, they said, who was being initiated into a fraternity. His blood alcohol level (BAL) reached 0.4 percent during one of the initiation rites, and he died as a result of this. (A BAL of 
0.1 percent is considered "under the influence" for traffic purposes in most states. Yet even a BAL of 0.04 percent can impair a driver's judgement and ability.) 
First. the three average film!>. Todd browning's Freaks was released five years ago, amidst a great deal of publicity generated by the fact that the film had been under censor's ban for 30 years. Offended by the multitude of deformed physiques in the film (snake-skin women, two-headed men, left-overs from Rugby games), it was decided that the movie was objectional, probably by someone with a weak stomach. Later, de-sensitized by pictures on TV, the censors let the film out on the streets. Once the ban was lifted, the crowds came out in droves to see this circus melodrama. The characters in the film are 
treated as "normal" people in a "normal " 
dramatic situation, and it is this problem 
with the suspension of disbelief that leaves 
the film somewhat unsatisfying. 
Dead End, partofCinema '76's "Man in 
the City: Confronting the American 
Dream" (in which tht: '76 group pays tribut­
to the ~reat god bi-centennial) stars 
•· 

Last Tango in Paris starring Marlon Brando opens Cinema '76 this weekend. 
.~• 
Thursday, january 29, 1976 the observer 
5 

~~Exam tomorrow? let's go drinking" a look at student alcoholism at ND 
Kath~ Mills 
One way to promote an attitude of responsibility in drinking, delegates said, is to provide alcohol education and information. At the University of Nebra­ska, journalism students compiled, wrote and published an overview booklet on alcoholism. Washington University in St. Louis, Mo., is one of several schools with courses in alcoholism. Barnum called courses of this nature "ideal", but added she does not know if Notre Dame students would accept such a course if it were offered. Metropolitan Community College in Minnesota offers a two-year associate degree training program which is structur­ed like a two-year program for registered nurses. Students in the program are offered l3 three-credit courses on drugs and alcohol. 
A recent survey indicates that there are over 600 campuses where wine apprecia­
nwhat's the best way to enjoy a drink? Slowly'' 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
tion courses are offered for credit or through extension or continuing education programs. According to the Wine Insti­tute, these courses promote drinking awareness because students recognize overindulgence is contrary to that taste a­wareness. "To understand the history, traditions and technology of wine, itis necessary to devote some thought to the role wine has played in other cultures, to the alcohol content of wine and to the role of wine in one's own life," Wine on Campus, a publication of the Wine Insti­tute points out. Administrators at the University of Northern low a have instituted 
Humphrey Bogart as a returning convict, set on re-gaining his turf among the "Dead End Kids"(later the Bowery Boys). The film inspired a whole slough of social-re­form dramas in the late Depression. Gregg Toland did the camera work(he also did the -work on Citizen Kane and Night at the 
Opera among others.) 

The third "average" film is also in the 
"Man in the City I' series. Mickey one 
was directed by Arthur Penn (Bonnie and 
Clyde, Little Big Man, Night Movies) and 
stars Warren Beatty as a stand-up com1c 
(Lenny Bruce?) who is running away from 
everybody and everything in a1Kafkaesque 
city that turns out, upon examination of the 
film, to be shot in Chicago. Its ambitions 
exceed its accomplishments, resulting in a 
general uneasiness. 

West Side Storydirectly preceeds Mickey 
One in the •'City'' series, and begins the 
category "good films". If you haven't 
;een it yet, I recommend' this musical 
adaptation of the Romeo and Juliet theme 
for its imagination, vitality and choreo­
graphy. If you know the film, then you'll 
knpw if a second viewing is worth it for 
you. 

The second "good" movie is Josef Von 
Sternberg's last film The DevU Is a 
Woman, which stars Marlene Dietrich as a 
19th Century Femme Fatale who pits lover 
against lover. Dietrich says she has never 
ltrked more beautiful than she does in this 
film. 

Now for the six excellent movies planned 
for thi:; semester. Perhaps the largest 
draw for the season is scheduled for this 
Friday: Last Tango In Paris. Cinema '76 
has scheduled three movies with excellent 
women's roles in them. Maria Schneider ·plays opposite Morlon Bran do, two people who meet when trying to rent an apartment in Paris, and remain for three days to complete one of the most intense and exciting screen trysts ever. . 
Jeanne Moreau's role in Truffaut's Jules 
a "Wine 'n' Dine" program on the campus. Each week, a group of students dines with four to six faculty members on six gourmet courses accompanied by wine. 
According to Time magazine, the liquor industry has also noted a need to promote responsible drinking. Time quoted Jack Hook, board chairman of the National Alcoholic Beverage Control Association, as telling of plans to use "the unmatched power of education to convince every American, young and old, that responsible drinking is the only kind that anyone would tolerate." Licensed Beverage Industries, Inc., the public representative of the distillers, allots $250,000 each year for a national advertising campaign that pro­motes responsible drinking, Time noted. One ad urges, ''Know when to say when. •• and another encourages, "If you can't stop drinking, don'f start driving." In 1973, 
Time said, Seagram's spent $250,000 for 
magazine advertisements against exces­
sive drinking. In 1974, the Distilled Spirits 
Council of the United States, Inc. (DISCUS) 
had as the theme for a consumer advertis­ing program the slogan "If you choose to drink, drink responsibly." One ad sponsored by DISCUS says, "What's the best way to enjoy a drink? Slowly." Another ad paid for by the liquor industry asks "Your're old enough to drink. But are you mature enough?" Ads of this type, 
Time pointed out, are obviously contrary to those directed toward the young that imply not even a weekend in the country 

Fred Grauer 
and Jim signaled another revolution in the treatment of women in films, calling for a higher, more absolute morality among film 
women .It's abeautiful story of two fritmds: one French and one German, who meet as students before World War I, fight on opposite sides in the war, and return to face the reality of loving the same woman, whom one of them has since married. 
Celebrating the changing face of Amer­ICa in the light if commg urbanism( say that fast and sees what happens), Orson Welles' Magnificent Ambersons remains perhaps his greatest triumph of actor directing. Agnes Moorehead, Joseph Cotten and other stalwarts from Welles' Mercury Theatre Company perform an exceptionally crafted film, with stunning visuals, and a tense, insightful perspec­tive. 
In a bit of smart scheduling, that film about the coming of urbanism precedes the "Man in the City" series. Initiating that series is Charlie Chaplin's City Lights. The 

Soph Lit Tid-bit Teasers 
Match each description below with the names at left and learn more about the authors who will be appearing at the Sophomore Literary Festival, February 15-21. 
1. This author once taught at the same college as
Jorge Borges ND professor Ernest Sandeen, who has written a review of his work, The Cave. 
John Gardner 
2. This author has been described as "a citizen of everywhere and nowhere;" he is a specialist in Old
Robert Hass 

Norse, the tango, gaucho poetry, Dante, Cervantes, Schopenhauer, Hawthorne, Emerson, De Quincey,
Louis Simpson 
and Chesterton. 
May Sarton 3. This author was born in Belgium, but fled from the armies of the Kaiser during WWl, and became aRobt. Penn Warren U.S. citizen in 1924. UOl-J11S A11W '£ sa8Jog S!n1Galway Kinnell a8JOf ·z: U;;JJJ11M UUad lJaqolJ: ·1 11.19A\8UV 
can be truly enjoyed without drinking. 
Although educational and informational programs are gaining in acceptance at colleges, Jon Jensen, state alcohol preven­tion co-ordinator for North Dakota, ques­
tioned whether they, alone, will make a difference in drinking patterns. Jensen cited the information campaign on cigar­ettes, and noted more people smoke cigarettes despite the campaign. 
The atmosphere and enviornment in 
which students drink can determine their 
drinking habits, delegates to the alcohol 
conference said. They pointed out campus 
bars, especially student union bars, can 
promote responsible drinking through 
atmosphere. The Rathskeller at the 
University of Wisconsin at Madison looks 
like an open cafeteria and is the student 
meeting place on campus. The "Rat" 
serves beer, but students do not make a 
"big deal" out of it. Some of the 
conference delegates visited Senior Bar on 
the Notre Dame campus and said its 
relaxed atmosphere is conducive to respon­
sible drinking. They pointed out the 
students at the bar did not simply drink. 
but they also danced. Membership in the 
Senior Bar is restricted to seniors 21 and 
over. It is operated by a general manager 
and two assistant managers, all students. 
These managers are responsible for 
keeping order. Student bartenders are 
also responsible for the amount of alcohol 
they serve to individuals. 
Several delegates also commended the 
Notre Dame "Quickie," a shuttle bus 
which transports students to the Michigan 
bars and restaurants. (The legal drinking 
age in Indiana is 21 while it is 18 in 
Michigan The Quickie eliminates the 
necessity tor students to drive home from 
Michigan after drinking. It was begun and 
is run by students, and the bus carries two 
volunteer students to help sic~ passengers. 


silent film made in the midst of the talkie boom, tells of the tangling lives of the Tramp, a millionaire, and a blind flower girl. Perhaps one of the mosttouching and memorable moments in film history occurs at the climax of the film, as the Tramp watches the girl regain her sight The camera focuses on Charlie's face·, and we see the joy of the girl's new sight and the realization of her love for him witnessed in his eyes. 
At tile end ot this senes 1s John Schlesinger's masterful Midnight Cowboy, starring Dustin Hoffman as "Ratso Rizzo" and Jon Voight as "JoeiBuck." A must-see especially if you're only familiar with the balderized version shown on TV last year. 
Finally, at the end of the year, when you 
think you've seen it all, they bring 
in Fellini's Amarcord. Definitely one of 
Fellini's finest movies, the title mean "\ 
Remember", and the movie is a touching, 
funny and sad memoir of the coming of age 
of a young man in an Italian village. 

6 exellent, 1 good, 3auerage films 
•. 
6.___t.!..:h~e~o:..:b~s=-e=-=-r...:.v--=e:...:r~___T_h_u_rsd_av:....;.'...:.J_an_u_a....;ry_29_,_19_76 


Government adds foliage to offices to cut costs 
S.1.N FRANCISCO (AP) -The Eighty-seven large plants, in­gnvernment says it's actually cut­cluding eight potted palms, were ting costs by "office-landscaping" installed last week in the sprawling a federal office with $10,000 worth offices of the Manpower Adminis­of tropical plants and a $10,000 tration that occupy the ninth floor C<: nned music system that features of the federal building here, Phillip tl:e sound of whispering surf. Lawlor, Manpower's deputy reg­
But one employee in the labor ional administrator, confirmed dL·partment office says, "If they'd Wednesday. 
turn the fans on for a tropical Lawlor said a sound system soon breeze and haul in a couple of tons to be installed throughout the floor of white sand we could be in Fiji." will alternate 15 minutes of back-
Publication of intelligence to come to House vote 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A decis­ion on whether to publish details of secret U.S. intelligence operations in the final report of the House intelligence committee was ordered W cdnesday to be put to a full vote uf the House. 
The House is expected to act Thursday on a resolution approved in the House Rules Committee that the intelligence committee be dir­ected not to publicly release the information unless it gets approval from President Ford to do so. 
The Rules Committee action was a victory for the committee's senior Republican, Rep. Robert McClory of Illinois, and three other mem­bers who contended that public disclosure of the secret information would violate an agreement that had been worked out with Ford to obtain it. 
However, much of the informa­tion on operations including U.S. submarine spying on the Soviets and CIA support for Angolan troops and Italian political parties has already been publicly disclosed through news leaks. 
Chairman Otis Pike, D-N.Y., estimated to the Rules Committee that "interest-wise or titillation ­wise" about 75 per cent of the report has already been publicly disclosed. 
Asked why his panel had voted 9 to 4 to publicly disclose the secret information without reszard to an _,greement giving the President the 
ina! word on disclosure, Pike gave 
he Rules Committee two basic 
easons. 
First, he said, "the majority '·onclusion of the committee was ~ imply that we could not sweep the 
trocious and horrendous things · nder the rug." 
Second, Pike said, "we could not ' arry out our mandate if we said to the President -and that means saying to the CIA and the FBI -you can veto anything you want in our final report.'' 
The committee had agreed to a compromise with Ford in Septem­ber after a confrontation over secrecy. The panel said it would not disclose any secret information whose disclosure Ford personally declared would be detrimental to the national security unless the committee went to court for author­ity to do so. 
But Pike and the committee majority contended that no such agreement could dictate what the committee could say in its final, official report to the full House. 
The action by the Rules Commit­tee put to the full House the decision on whether the secret information could be publicly dis­closed. 
ground music with 15 minutes of a "whirring, soft air-like roar," sim­ilar to the sound of surf. 
The embellishments are part of a $90,000 "office-landscaping" proj­ect recommended by the General Services Administration to save money by substituting foliage and low room dividers for costly interior walls, Lawlor said. 
The GSA says it developed the concept for offices of federal agen­cies so they can be expanded or made smaller simply by moving around the portable room dividers and plants. 
"We're using this new concept throughout our four-state region and it's unquestionably saving us money -especially with all the changes that are constantly being made in the size and shape of federal offices," a GSA spokesman said. 
But some employees in the manpower administration think the project may be a waste of money at a time when the department's own programs are being cut back. 
New Hotline no. 
The telephone number for the 
Hotline-Crisis Intervention Service 
has been changed to 232-3344. 
If talking about a little problem 
keeps it from becoming a bigger 
problem, call Hotline. 
SERVING BOTH HARD & SOFf SHELL TACOS. 
THE WHOLE 
STORY IS IN 
FRI. PAPER••. 

"Here we are facing cuts in badly needed job training pro­grams and they're spending $10,000 for plants," said one staff member, who asked that his name not be disclosed. "Somebody's got their priorities mixed up." 
The plants were supplied by Courtney Borrecco, owner of the California Street Nursery, who said they cost $57 each, plus another $57 for each ceramic holding pot. 
Borrecco said he has a $1,100 -a ­year contract to take care of the plants. 



Last dealer's school tonight 
The last Mardi Gras school will Peggy Foran at 7813 by 7:30. be today at 7:30p.m. in Stepan There will also be a short but Center. All card dealers who have important meeting at 6:30 tonight not attended the school must show for all hall booth chairmen. The up tonight or they will not be meeting is with Dave Pegan, allowed to deal. Persons unable to security chairman, and John Red-
attend the should call finance chairman. 
presents 


ST TANGO IN PARIS 
Starring Merion Brando 
in the uncut version 
FRI JAN 31 SAT FEBl
I 
7:00, 9:30, 12:00 
ADMISSION $1 

Engineering Auditorium 
Patron Cards available at the 


BULLA SHED 
a warm spot on a cold day! 
JOIN US -meet new people especially if you have 
I
Thursday, january 29. 1976 the observer 7 
~------------~~~~~~~~~-----I 
--l 
1


Former NBC executive to kickoff lecture series I 
j 
by Phil Cackley Staff Reporter 
The "Design of Humanistic Work" lecture series will resume today with a talk on "Current Blue and White Collar Perspec­tives" to be given by Ted Mills, director of the National Quality of Work Center in Washington, D.C. at 3:30 p.m. in the Hayes Healy Center Auditorium. 
Mills, as a former broadcast executive for NBC-TV from 1948 through 1960, won twenty-six a­wards including the Peabody A­ward, the George Polk Memorial Award in Journalism, and was twice nominated for the "Emmy" Award of the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences. 
Mills also has extensive experi­ence as a consultant for AT&T, Kodak, and other companies speci­alizing in Quality of Life and Communications research. In this capacity he developed the Peace Through Understanding exhibit used by AT&T at the 1963 New York World's Fair, among other projects. 
As Special Assistant for Produc­tivity to DR. C. Jackson Grayson, Chairman ofthe Price Commission, Mills created and developed the Quality of Work Program, serving as its director in 1972. He was also a member of the National Commis­sion on Productivity. 
Fro;n this position, Mills formed the National Quality of Work Center two years ago. He serves as 
Controversy is ended 
Ford gives Moynihan backing 
f'RMANDO IS NOW LOCATED NEAR CAMPUS· 
tTO GIVE YOU THE CUT OR STYLE YOU WANT\ 
WASHINGTON--U.N. Ambassador Daniel Moynihan received full pub­lic support Wednesday from Pres­ident Ford and Secretary of State Henry Kissinger after a new con­troversy arose involving Moynihan. 
The ambassador had sent a classified cable to Kissinger last week complaining that elements in the State Department are under­mining his work at the United Nations. 
In the cable, which became public Wednesday, Moynihan also said he had made progress in breaking up an anti-American vot­ing bloc in the U.N. 
Ford issued a statement saying he "completely approves of and supports the way Moynihan con­ducts his office at the United Nations." 
Ebony editor is 
director of this private organiza­tion. 
This is the first lecture in the series for the second semester. Last semester three talks were given. The series is funded in part by a grant form the S and H Foundation and is sponsored by the College of Business Administra­tion. 
Series co-director Prof. William Heisler said the talks are aimed primarily at business students, but that the entire Notre Dame com­munity is invited, as well as members of the Michiana business 1 ommunity. He said faculty from aearby colleges have also attended . he talks in the past. 
"The series is an explanation of :he nature of work in our society, and what can be done to make it more human and Jess alienating," Heisler explained. 
The series continues this semes­ter with talks by Mills; Dr. Francis Fiorenza, asst. prof.of theology at Notre Dame, on ''Critical Theology and Work" on March 2; Irving Bluestone, vice-president of UA \· International and director 1 of th General Motors Department i1 Detroit, on ''The Design of Human istic Work: What can Labor do?· on April 28; and other programs, t• be announced. 
NOTRE DAME -SAINT MARY'S THEATRE TRYOUTS FOR 
MY HEART'S IN THE HIGHLANDS 
by 

William Saroyan 
Tuesday, February 3 at 7:00 p.m. Wednesday, February 4 at 7:00p.m. 
Callbacks Thur.;day, February 5 at 7:00 p.m. Laboratory Theatre Washington Hall at Notre Dame Rease use iron staircase in rear Open to all Notre Dame . Saint Marv's students. 
..~~~~~~~~~---...-.~~~~~.-... 
Kissinger also said he was fully behind Moynihan, "who is doing an outstanding job in the United Nations with the full support of the President and the Secretary of State and the Department of State." 
In New York, Moynihan said he had received Ford's go-ahead to continue "committed but candid American participation" in the United Nations. 
''The Pre~ident called me at midday to express his complete confidence in the manner in which United States policy is being car­ried out by the U.S. mission to the United Nations," Moynihan said in a statement. 
At the White House, Press Secretary Ron Nessen said of Moynihan's complaint: "It's a routine exercise in Washington bureaucracy that not everybody always agrees with what someone else might be doing." 
At the State Department, spokesman John Trattner read a statement to reporters which he said had been approved by Kissin­ger, saying: "Newspapers must ask themselves what their respons­ibility is when they consider pub­lication of such documents." 
Late last year Moynihan all but 
publicly charged Kissinger and the administration generally with fail­ing to support his statements in the 
U.N. criticizing the tactics of some black African leaders. 
The secretary and the President ·d th th fid
1 h d full 
~: Moy~~ha:.Y M~yniha~0~~d:nce 
known he intended to resign in protest and agreed to stay onlyafter Ford and Kissinger publicly 
• c;/f'lmando'j_ 8a7.be.7. & d-/ai'l. ~tyfe. ~1;(..1/1 f 
I ~
uPEN s1x DAYS A WEEK 
' MONDAY THRU FRIDAY 6 TO 5,30 SATURDAY 6 TO 4 ~ 
t PERSONALIZED SERVICE t 
t ARMANDO FEMIA 1437 N. IRONWOOD DR. & ·pHONE 277·0615 SOUTH BEND. INDIANA ' 
I FOR APPT. f 
•~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

F0r e I
0' n
!#•c:~\ {, 0. 
:.t; Parts & accessories for imported cars. 
~ 
Re:onal for all makes at lowest prices. 
Ci~tr.butor ,.
************************* r:· 
:For ND Students. Faculty& Staff-~ ·
*10 percent fdiscount with ID & * ·;! pur chase of $10 or more. ! •· *******'flr+++++++*********'Jc •1 
27 2 _71 87 (' .i 

key speaker,st-at-ed_t_h_ei_r_su_p_po_rt_£_or_h_im_._______________________·: 
The Black Cultural Arts Festi­val, an annual highlight of the spring semester at Notre Dame, will feature talks by noted speak­ers, exhibitions, films and other entertainment on the campus Feb. 8 to 14. The theme of this year's festival is "The Black Student: 
"A Need for Unitv." 
Rev. Marvin Russell, an ordain­ed Methodist minister and a senior on the Notre Dame football squad, will open the week's ceremonies with a religious service at lla.m. Sunday Feb. 8 in the chapel of Lyons Hall. This will be followed at 3p.m. in the Memorial Library Lounge by a discussion of "African Art" by Floyd Coleman, assistant professor of art and design at Southern Illinois University, Ed­wardsville. Art works of Coleman will be on display from Jan. 31 till Feb. 9 in the Isis Gallery. 
Black American Law Students Association (BALSA) will sponsor a dinner at 5 p.m. in the Law Lounge with proceeds to be used to finance festival activities. Honored guests at the Sunday dinner will be Paula Dawning, counsellor in the Fresh­man Year of Studies Program, and Maben Herring assistant professor of English. Reservations for this event may be made by contacting Lucille Brown, 283-3631; Pete Can­non, 283-1603, or the BALSA office, 283-3609. 
Alex Poinsett, senior staff editor of Ebony magazine, will be a keynote speaker at a program beginning at 8p.m. Sunday in the Memorial Library Auditorium. The day's activities will be concluded with a reception in the Black Cultural Arts Center of LaFortune Student Center. 
A panel discussion, "Academics and Athletics for the Black Athlete at Notre Dame," is scheduled for 8p.m. Monday in the Library Auditorium. Participants will be Paula Dawning, Oscar T. Brookins, assistant professor of economics; Larry Thomas, philosophy instruct­or, and athletes Willie Fry, Randy Payne, Gene Smith and Dan Knott. 
A reception will follow in the Cultural Arts Center. 
The Tuesday program at p.m. 
in the Library Lounge wil'  .1ch1de  
discussion of "Blacks in P  in ·~ss"  
by Miss Vansetta Child~  ~~.rl"  :•  
ing  officer  for  IBM;  I  Phill1p  

Dabney, U.S. Navy anj Freddie Howard, director of ~ minority business enterprise for Venture, Inc. A reception will follow in the LaFortune clubrooms. 
The highly-acclaimed film , "Sounder", will be shown at 8 and lOp.m. Thursday ar.d Friday , Feb. 12 and 13 in tl-.e Engineering Auditorium. Admission for this event will be one dollar . A student directed talent and fashion show , "Black Extravaganza," is also scheduled for 8 p.m. Friday in Stepan Center. 


TUESDAY & THURSDAY 
DANCE THIS WEEKEND TO 
SOUTH SHORE 
MICHIGAN'S TOP ROCK NIGHT CLUB!
•4, 
•IUIIAOY'I
•...,__f1fi!JJ'l 
WANTED 

Desperately need 5 tickets to Maryland game. Call Mike after 6 P.M. 288-0088. 
r need GA and Student tickets for Marquette. Give me a break. Rease call Pat 1654. 
Need 8 tickets for Maryland. Call Joe at 287-5113. 
Need too GA tix to Maryland game. Call 7471. 
Need ride to Madison, Wismnsin the IM!ekend of Feb. 27th. Call 7906. 
Will pay big rroney for Marquette tickets Call Mike 8720. 
Desperately need 2 Maryland tickets. Call272-6086 after 6 P.M. 
Need tix for Maryland game 8386. 
Gr<· · ·tents need roorrmate, rent chec, .1 232-1861. 
Need 2 Marquette $tudent tix. Call AI 3388,1715. 
HOUSEMATEWANTED: AT 1124 COR­BY • $75-A·MONTH, PLUS UTIUTIES. CALL 288·8417. 
Wanted: 2 Maryland tix. Call Bob, 234-6352. 
Must have 5 GA tix. any Saturday game. Call Terry, 1609. 
Desperately need 4 non-student tickets to Villanova. Call larry, 283-1791. 
Desperate! y need Marquette tickets. Call Sheila, 8135. 
Need one ticket to Maryland game. Ann, 8803. ~ 
Need Maryland and Marquette tickets. Call Henry at 272-5133 
Ride needed to Aloria or Quincy, Ill. area, Feb. 5 or 6. Call Karen, 6752. 

Classified Ads 
Volunteers needed: to visit short-term and emergency psychiatric patients at Merrorial Hospital. Training and transp­ortation provided. Contact Adrienne at 7308. (8 :30-5). 
Need too Maryland tickets. Call Tom 8684. 
Need 5 tix to Davidson game. Call 1031 or 1135. 
Wanted: 2 Marquette tickets. Call Jim 1767, 278 Dillon. 
FOR RENT 
Available for Sept. TIM> to seven bedroom houses. CofTl)letely furnished. Call Mrs. Hurrl:larger, 234-9364. 
FOR SALE 
For Sale: Dolomite Ski Boots, size 9. Used one season. Call 1924. 
1973 Mustang Grande; air, power,. stereo tape, one ov..11er, undercoated, 33,000 miles, no rust. 234-1372, after 5 p.m. 
For Sale: 12-string guitar, good !Dildit­ion. Call Usa, 8089. 
NOTICES 
Need a tune-up? You buy the parts, I will install plugs, points, !Dildenser a1d set timing for $8. Call Bob 8610. 
Desperately need 5 Marquette tix. Cal Eileen 6798. 
THE ALBUM HOUR IS HERE LISTEN TO WSN0.640 AM FOR DETAILS. 
Monissey I.Jlan • $20-$150. 1-day wait. int. LaFortune, M-F, 11:15-12:15. 
Accurate, fast typing. /lArs. O:lnoho, 232-0746. 
IBN\  Selectric  II  typing.  Manuscripts,  
dissertations.  Experienced.  289  
-5193.  

Student Government T-Shirt Agency ­Top quality an... row prices on 01stom made T-shirts, call Oilllid Bossy, 277 • 0948. Ideal for donnitories and dubs. 
Typing, 35 cents per page. Call Dan, 272-5549. 
LOST& FOUND 
lost: R'iday; Gold Bulova watch; gold band. Reward. Joe 1188. 
Found v.tlite cat on cat'llJUS. Call 234· 3892. 
Lost last week: dark grey stocking cap. Reward. Call 284-4342. 
PERSONALS 
MOCK STOCK MARKET· Feb. 2 thru Feb. 27. Old Business Bldg., 10 a.m..J 
p.m. Mon. thru Ai. Win $100, $50, $25. Sponsored by N.D. Rnance Club. 
Sacrament of Confilll\ltion. If 1-QU have n't been <Dilfirmed, and wish to be, <Diltact CafTl)US Ministry in Ubrary (6536) and ask about Confirmation pro. 
gram. 
Remermer that disastrous prom? "I thought she said 'dark blue' and rented a purple tux -she said chart­
reuse.~~ 
"I ordered a dozen roses a1d they sent me a cactus plant." '' rwas fixed up with a friend of a friend of a friend v.tlo turned out to be my oousin.'' 
From Disaster Box Q Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
Paul Me. -This is ~<QUr newsletter. Reduced Rates this week only. Take advantage. 
The Madame and Her Girls 
D:>es becoming a man IT1ea1 the sillies have to stop? Happy 21st! With love, Your 5ealt1d f<M>rite sport. 
Zhivago, It's 4 veers today-did 1-QU remerrber? La-a 
Oh, You, You, O.Di-Diane. Happy-B.D. love, B,B,&A. 
Happy 21st Di., and may ~<Qu have many 
rTDre. 
Kcnn. 
You're only 12 minutes away from the finest taoos and tamales this side qt Guadalajara. TACO RICO -SCDttsdale 
Mall. 
.. 

~ 
I l 
i 
l 
l 
l 
l 

· ~8____~th~e~o~b~s~e~r_v~e~r______~T~h~ur~s~da~v~·~J=an~u=a~~~~~·~19=7~6
1--.· 
r 
' 
~ 
I Irish win gang war against DePaul
I 
by Ernest Torrlero 
They looked like the roughest, meanest bunch the city of Chicago could send. It was the Blue Demon gang, the vengeful group which controls the collegiate basketbar, underworld in the Windy City. They came to Indiana to make a hit on the proud, arrogant Irish. But somehow the plan went amiss and the men from the west were driven back to sleep with the fish in Lake Michigan. 
"It was a very physical game," said a man named Digger whose mob had just buried the roughians from DePaul, 89-68. 
"We were just beaten by a better team," conceded Ray Meyer, ring­lo:ader of the Demon bunch and a man who has been unsuccessful ten out of eleven times in gaining revenge over the Irish clan to which he formerly belonged. 
The leading hit man for the Irish once again was junior Adrian Dantley. The 6-5,210 pound Wash­
ington import, hit for 31 points on twelve of seventeen field goals and seven of eleven free throws. His performance earned him the Wen­dell Smith A ward reserved for the most valuable performer in the Notre Dame-DePaul grudge match. 
''Adrian Dantley seems to have a sixth sense for positioning himself for rebounds and drawing fouls," Meyer continued. "He's position­ing himself for a rebound correctly before the guy even makes up his mind to shoot.'' 
For a while it appeared Notre Dame had come with unloaded guns. Front-liners Joe Ponsetto, Andy Pancratz and Dave Corzine notched the first three marks on the scoreboard and after a minute and a half of play, DePaul was up, 6-0. 
All through the first half, DePaul was relying on pivotman Corzine to generate the Demon offense. His dump passes, give and go's, re­bounds and shots off of return feeds, helped DePaul to climb to a 22-15 advantage with eleven min­utes left. 
From that point on the Irish took over, scoring 16 quick points while DePaul could only muster up two baskets. After Duck Williams and Toby Knight combined for the first eight points of the spurt, Phelps replaced everyone except Dantley. When the onslaught was over, Notre Dame was up, 33-28. The five-point edge held up till half­time, 45-39. 
"We just wore them down," 
... 


afro-haired Demon to foul out at the 4:44 mark. Batton out-scored Corzine, 16-10, and more import­antly out-rebounded him, 10-3. The Irish had succeeded in their goal of controlling the boards as they held a 48-38 advantage in that category. 
"We wanted to take Corzine to the outside," said Batton. "When I shoot well from the outside, it brings the center out. Corzine is real powerful when he is inside. But he is not as mobile as many of the centers we face." 
"Dave Batton played one of his better games," Phelps agreed. "He has gained the confidence to play that way. We are really counting on him with Bill Laimbeer ineligible.'' 
IRISH ITEMS: Dantley demoted Tom Hawkins to third on the all-time ND scoring column. He has a long way to go to catch Austin Carr who heads the list with 2560 points. .Res~r~e forward Randy Haefner IS ~till m St. Joe's Hospital ~fter su~ermg a severe back injuryBatton goes up against DePaul's Dave Corzine Ill practice a few days ago. DantleyDemons last night. [Photo by Tony Chifari] and Ponsetto got into a shoutingPhelps emphasized. "Our bench climb to second on the all-time team that would win. We were match in the second half. But 

came through for us." Notre Dame scoring list with 1,830 
fortunate enough to get that mo­nothing developed out of it except "Notre Dame plays a lot of P 0 ~?ts. . mentum." sore lungs. Phelps got on the refs 
men," Meyer admitted. "It is T~e second half was JUSt a The key to the second half deluge for calling so many fouls. He 
tough for one of our kids to play quest.wn or. momentum," Phelps was the play of Dave Batton on wanted the tempo of the game 
fifteen or twenty minutes against explamed. Whoever came out and DePaul's Dave Corzine. Batton was speeded up. He admitted television 
the three fresh men they throw on got that momentum would be the to neutralize Corzine. forcing the time outs did not help any. 
the court.'' It took almost two minutes for a team to score in the opening part of 
Kathy fences way to the top
the second half. Ponsetto hit from 
the corner cutting the Irish advan­think that's my ultimate goal intage to three. Then, with Dave rivals in fencing. You see a lot of 
Batton and Adrian Dantley leading by EUeen O'Grady really good fencers who lose be­fencing. But that probably would be in about 1990,'' she laughs.
the charge, Notre Dame rattled off cause they slack off. It all depends nine points to DePaul's two and the on the kind of day you have," she "Maybe Mr. DeCicco would take
With the women's athletic pro­
Irish were up top by 11, 54-43. commented. time toi give me some more 
gram so new at Notre Dame, it's
Back came DePaul to pull within lessons," she hints. But right now
If Kathy ever loses a match, it isunusual to find a veteran woman
five, 55-50, at the 13:46 mark. It not because of a bad, but often all Kathy is concerned with is the
athlete who is completely dedicated 
was here the Irish went into a surge because she prepares for only some Notre Dame-St. Mary's fencing
to her sport. Yet Kathy Valdiserri
which was to put DePaul on ice, club and its newly opened season.
of her competition. She has ais dedicated, and her sport is "I think as the year goes onpumping in 24 points to the tendency to beat the best fencers,
fencing.
Demons ten. Midway through this and lose to easier competition. we're going to get a lot better. We
Although only a sophomore,
romp, Dantley hit on a jumper from Last year!, in the Great Lakes have 10 women on the team this
Kathy begins fencing her fourth
near the top of the key for his 22nd Tournament, she beat Karen Beck­year. I have the most experience
year for Notre Dame and continues
point. The shot enabled Dantley to man in the semi-finals, went on to and the other girls have one or two 
to rack up the honors. 
years behind them. But the men'sdefeat an undefeated girl fromPresently co-captain of the Notre team works with us everyday, andOhio State 5-l, but ended upDame-St. Mary's women's fencing

Pep rally set 
we get a lot of help form them,"placing third in the tournament dueclub, she took first place in the she exolains. 

to earlier defeats that she probablyGreat Lakes Tournament her senior Valdiserri raves about the coach­should have won.
The all important victory over the year in high school, third place iln ing of the fencing team:"Mr.
,Maryland "TERPS" begins Fri­the same tournament the next year, "I do have a tendency to be really prepared for stiffer compe­DeCicco is a fantastic coach," sheday, at 6:30 in the ACC Pit. won the Indiana State Divisiona\s tition. I guess I key on certain commented. "He makes you doFeatured speakers are; "Digger" two years in a row and competed in people and forget about other something until you get it right.
Phelps, All-American, Adrian Dan­both the Midwest Regionals and people who stand in the way. I Then he makes you do it again untiltley, and Bill Paterno. Help psyche Junior Olympic Nationals in Ore­don't think I have to work as hard you have it down." Her onlythe team up and keep their winning gon. 
streak alive. against inexperienced people, but complaint is that the women have
Kathy began fencing her sopho­they often surprise me," she to share DeCicco with the men's more year in high school after team.
explained. "I guess I'll have to cut
watching the Junior World Fencing that out this year though. It's For this reason and more sheCompetition held here. " I just getting obnoxious," she added. would like to see women's fencinghappened to see the championship Kathy attributes part of her eventually go varsity. "Wed have abouts and I thought it was really inconsistencies at tournaments to bigger budget to spend on equip­exciting,'' she said. 
her lack of experience. "I would ment and traveling. And we could"I was really good firends with have liked to have started fencing definitely use the recruiting. Also,Mr. DeCicco, since my father is on when I was eight," she said. "I we'd be recognized as a varsitythe faculty. So I took lessons from would have had eight more years team and maybe that would givehim in the summer. I really experience behind me. You pick up more incentive for kids to try out,"enjoyed learning how to fence. It's she comments.
so many things along the way. I
different form playing basketball or would have been primed better for Kathy Valdiserri marks the be­any other sport. It's really individ­bigger tournaments:" ginning of a new type of athlete toual. You' rs out there fending for She hopes to continue fencing the Irish. She's a woman totallyyourself the whole time." she after college through the Amateur dedicated to her sport. ''I loveexplained. 
Fencing League of America. t'"'ncing. I wish I didn't have toKathy first competed in a Wo­study; I could just fence all the
The 01 is not out of the
men's Junior Tournament in llli­time," she explains. 
nois her junior year in high school, and took home second place. This initial win proved plenty of incentive for Kathy to continue fencing and begin com­peting with the ND-SMC fencing club. 
In this first tournament, Kathy lost first place after losing a fence-off, in a tie for first place to Karen Beckman. Beckman, the same age as Valdiserri, has since gone on to compete with North­western University, and has be­come one of Kathy's biggest com­petitors. Last year Beckman won the Great Lakes Tournament, while Kathy took third. "She is one of my biggest rivals,'' says Kathy. Every time we fence, it's only a one point difference between us. But she always manages to come up ahead,'' said Kathy. 
Valdiserri is quick to point out that she really: hates to use the 
[Photo byword rival. "There really are no 








