~-~­

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Tuesday, December 7, 1976 Vol. XI, No. 60 
Carter considers '77 tax break; prepares for cabinet meetings 
PLAINS, Ga. AP -President-elect direction the economy is taking. Carter announced he is going to 
Carter said vesterdav that he's The President-elect said he has Atlanta today to begin a series of keeping an ~>pen n{ind on the not gone into the details of how meetings with Cabinet prospects possibility of a tax cut next year,. large a tax cut might be if he that will continue in Washington but he isn't as certain of the decided to ask for one or whether it later in the week. prospect as his newly selected bud­would be permanent or temporary. In Atlanta, Carter will hold his get director. But he said he will be ready to meetings in the governor's man­
Carter, preparing for a series of move quickly when the time for sion he once occupied. In Wash­face-to-face meetings with prospec­decision comes. ington, they will take place mainly tive Cabinet members, said a tax Lance, however, told The Los at Blair House. the government cut is "one or the possibilities, if Angeles Times the Carter's econ­guest house on Pennsylvania Ave­the economv need~ stimulation and omic plan with likely include a tax nue across from the White House. I think at this point it appears that reduction of up to $15 billion, a jobs Carter would not give the names wav. program and tax investment credits of any of the people with whom he 
:. I wouldn't say it is virtually to spur industrial expansion. will be meeting. certain." he said, referring to a He said the tax cut would But Sunday, Hamilton Jordan, comment Sunday bv Thomas probably take the form of a rebate Carter's chief talent scout, con­Dr. Benjamin Spock related his controversial views to students .. Bert" Lance. the. Atlanta banker on 1976 taxes as the quickest way firmed that Attorney John Doar and faculty last night in Washington Hall [photo by Dominick he ha~ chosen to head the Office of to stimulate the economy. Such a [continued on page 7) Yocius]

Management and Budget. "I rebate was proposed Sunday by wouldn't put it that strongly." economist Andrew F. Brimmer, a LanL'L' had said that the choices Carter adviser and former member 
to ~timulate the economv are so of the Federal Reserve Board. 
Spock speaks to students 
limited that a tax cut is .:almost a Carter did emphasize that he has certamty. other options, including some type medical care," Spock used as an
by Patrick Cole innocent person in his earlier 
· T m deliberately keeping my of job-creation plan to stimulate the Senior Staff Reporter example to the group of approxi­years. he eventually became a mind open.·· the President-elect econorny and help reduce unem­mately 100 students, "you can go spokesman for the peace move­said. "I have advisors who arc ployment, which now stands at 8.1 to a public library and see we can ment.
Condemming the lack of social
IL·aning in all different directions. percent of the labor force. 
have the best medical care. But we "And I quadrupled my anti-war
justice in America, Dr. Benjamin
hut I'll wait and ~ee." ·Til he consulting with my stand between tenth and twentieth activity," Spock stated about his
Spock spoke to a crowd of students 
Carter commented at an im­economic advisers and also with in the world -we're far behind." life during the Vietnam war years.

and faculty last night in Washing­
promptu news conference that congrc~sional leaders before I The only criteria of success in He mentioned that he had been
ton Hall.
occurred after he cast his vote in make anv dcci~ion." Carter said. industry, Spock said, is that it gets arrested with former Yale Univer­
Called the ''father of a whole
thi~ town's municipal elections. " ... It will be a joint decision, I maximum profit. If people do not sity Chaplain William S. Coffin.
generation," Spock told his aud­
Carter's younger brother, Billy, is guess, between m~·self and the receive the proper necessities such "It's always nice to be arrested
ience as a father speaking to his
running for mayor. congrcs~ional leaders. I'd like to as housing, "it's too bad," he said. with ministers," he said, which
children that today there are many
What Carter is waiting for is the work out something harmonious brought a humorous response from 
In his 35-minute presentation,
unsolved problems in America.
end-of-the-year economic indica­with them before we make a final the audience." tors which will provide a look at the commitment." "Concerning the distribution of This and other experiences, he
Spack's main reason for the dis­
comfort in society is what he termed as "rugged individual­said, "opened up his eyes to the ism." sins ofthe American government." He added that our government has 
"We have this tradition of been imperialist.
rugged individualism in which "Our government has interferedeveryone is on his own," he said. 
with Mexico, Guatemala, Nicara­"Back in earlier days, people gua and the oil industries," healmost wept over the idea of said. As a result, Spock "convert­rugged individualism.'' 

ed to socialism."

Spock denounced this philosophy "And today, you have somesaying that it has caused our people in poverty,'' he pointed out. 
society to fragment. 
"But in Scandinavia, they elimin­"When you travel in other ated poverty years ago.''

countries, you can see the differ­Unparalleled riches, a high level ence," Spock revealed. "The of education and resourcefulness 
people are more cooperative and were some of the strong points of less competitive." 
American society, Spock indicated. 

And competition was the second 
''Americans are friendly cause of stress in America, accord­
people," he stated, referring to 

ing to Spock. "Competition is comments made by foreignersinstilled in children," he said. 
when he traveled abroad. "But if 

"When a child gets, for example, you ask blacks, Puerto Ricans or three A's and two B's, his mother other minorities, we haven't been might ask, 'why didn't you get all that friendly. In general, we A's?' " haven't been friendly with those 
Third, Spock emphasized that who we don't identify with." there is a lot of violence. Telev.i-Spock also cited the idealism sion, he said, comes along and present among people. "It was glorifies violence. wonderful to see people refusing to 
"Good statistical evidence shows be drafted, opposing the war -just it brutalizes people," Spock insist-being adventurous," he praised. ed. He continued by saying that He also commended the youths society, through media, suggests of America in the early 1960's who 


SMC Assembly acts on parking 
by Maureen S~jbel Staff Reporter 

The Saint Mary's Student As­sembly unanimously passed a pro­posal last night allowing students 
to park in the LeMans parking lot on weekends. The proposal, which is not in effect yet, will give all St. Mary's students free access to the centrally located LeMans lot from 6:00 p.m. Friday to 6:00 p.m. Sunday. This extension of parking privileges will allow students a safer and more convenient access to their vehicles and free Security from the job of taxiing students from their dorms to the McCandless parking lot. 
The proposal wiii go to Stevie Wernig, Assistant Dean of Student Affairs, the Student Affairs Com­mission and the Student Affairs Council for approval and endorse­ment. 
"It's a reasonable proposal," said Mary Lu Bilek, student body president, "and I think it wiii go through, but probably not until February. I'll try to push it through because it would be nice to have it when we get back from vacation." 
A second part of the proposal recommends that only students from McCandless be allowed to park in the first three rows of the McCandless lot on weekends. This measure was added to reduce security risks for those residents who choose to park in that lot. 
Visitors will still be allowed to park in the LeMans lot. During special campus events, however, the visitor overflow wiii be directed to the back of the McCandless lot, still giving students free access to the central Le Mans lot. 
A second proposal, concerning study days before finals, was. brough tup by Cathy Coyne, Vice President for Academic Affairs. Coyne's proposal which will be presented to the Academic Council today, recommends that the Mon­day, May 9 classes be moved to Saturday, May 7, to allow for three consecutive study days before the spring finals beginning May 10. 
As it stands now, the academic calendar for the next two years will remain the same, with no study days before fall finals and one before the spring finals. 
In her proposal, Coyne hopes to arrange these future calendars so as to include extra study days. 
Members suggested that careful consideration be made before ap­proving the Saturday class day. Job schedules and the Kentucky Derby will conflict with classes on that date. 
that violence is "fun" or "plea-responded to giving more justice to sure." blacks and women. "They were 
Finally, the infamous child ex-also interested in better curriculum pert said that the American society and parietal rules," Spock noted. is a materialistic one. The import-, However, Spack returned to his ant thing is the money you make or critical analysis of American soc­the position you achieve, he stress-iety. "What trends will become ed, denouncing the lack of spiritual strong is the big question for convictions among Americans. America," Spock stated. He 
"And that's why young people suggested that society will "gra­have turned to Eastern religions," dually be torn apart" if things Spack explained. "They are look-remain the same. ing for more exotic, more exciting "It's hard for Americans to things. This is why we are so conceive of things (American so­selfish." ciety) ending," he warned. "But 
Spack was born in New Haven, it's happened to the Greeks, the Conn. in 1903. He attended school Romans and the French. I'm at Phillips Exeter Academy and reminding you that the countries graduated from Yale University in who don't solve their problem can 1925. In fact, he rowed on the Yale fall in a relatively short period of Crew Team which won a gold time." medal in the 1924 Olympic Games. To clarify his idea of socialism, He received an M.D. degree from he said he was not "preaching Columbia in 1929 and practiced poverty'' to be embraced. He pediatrics from 1933 to 1947 in New emphasized people should work for York City. ·a better society which can "gratify 
Although Spack told the aud-and fulfill the needs of society." ience that he was a relatively [continued on page :ZJ 


the observer Tuesday, December 7, 1976
2 

~~-=~~~~~------------­
t r 
l I 
t 
~ 
---News Briefs--­
1=-:-:-===-=======:::::::::=====-=========National 
House dems pick leaders 
WASHINGTON · Thomas P. "Tip" O'Neill of Massachusetts _was se~ected yesterday as speaker of the Ho~s~. and J1m W_nght of Texas won the post of maJonty leader. Wnght scored a one-vote victon over Philip Burton of California as House Democrats-voted 
148 to 147. 

--On Campus Toda~,__. 
9 a.m. · christmas bazaar, Ieman's lobby.5 p.m. 
daily advent mass, celebrated by rev. robert griifin,
U:1.5 p.m. Iafortune ballroom. 

3:30p.m. cardinal o'hara memorial lecture series. "the search tor a new conceptual framework of accounting" by philip I defliese, managing partner, chairman of P>.t>cutive committee, accounting firm of coopers & lvbrand, n~w city library aud. 
4:30p.m. seminar. "immunobiology of taenia metacestode" by dr. j_f_ williams, michigan state univ. galvin aud. 
_,
' 
7 p.m. meeting. ski team, room 1c Iafortune. 
7,9 & film. "shampoo'' engineering aud. 11 p.m. lecture. "an evening with mr. spock of star trek" 7:30p.m. with leonard nimoy stepan center. 

panel discussion. "the long childhood" with frederick j _ crosson, james I massey, ernan mcmullin, n.d. library lounge. 
7:30 
p.m. seminar. for faculty and graduate students only with philip I. defliese, room 121, hayes-healy center. 

7:30 
p.m. charismatic prayer meeting. Iafortune student center. room 2d. 


8 p.m. basketball. northwestern at n d ace. 
8 p.m. fiction reading series · presents michat->1 gregory stephens, author of "season coole" and "para­graphs'· reading from his own work_ special collections room of memorial library. 
8 p.m. immaculate conception mass. stapleton lounge smc. all welcome_ 
10 p.m. meeting. knights of columbus meeting in council chambers. christmas celebration after the meeting 
; 
'" -,. 
OC students: secure your valuables 
Off-Campus students returning home for the Christmas holiday should secure their valuables, stat­cd Darlene Palma, associate off­campu\ housing director. 
Palma warned "If you will miss the article, don't leave it." She suggested several means of secur­ing valuables during the break. 
She said students should contact apartment landlords to store "m-crsized articles" which they could not bring home with them. She <ilso !>uggestcd that off-campus residents contact friends living on 

~----~­
I • Your Source for the Unusual in Diamonds and Precious Gems Platinum and Gold Jewelry 
You'll find untold treasures of the finest quality brought to you by the eye of an expert.* And sold with the care of a professional.* 
Insurance appraisals and purchases of fine diamor,ds and estate jewelry provided. 
"Graduate Gemolog1st Gemologtcal Institute of America 'Fellow Gemmologist Gemmological Assoctatton of Great Brttatn • BA lnd1ana Untverstty 
Lobby St. Joseph Bank Bu'lding South Bend, Indiana Telephone: 287-1427 
John M. Marshall's 
COiamond 9mporrt Company 
campus and ask them to lock up their valuables. Apparently. Palma comments, there is a smaller chance of theft on campus during break. 
Due to a lack of student response Palma explained, a program set up last year by the housing committee has been discontinued. Under this program, a list of professors willing to store student's valuables in their homes. was compiled. However, very few students contacted these professl•rs and the program was abandoned this year. 




Spack gives reason for book 
[continued from page 1] Because of the emphasis on monetary profit, this system is not geared to produce that goal, he stated. 
·-After his presentation which was 
received warmly by the audience, 
Spock answered questions from the audience. One of those questions involved his reasons for writing Baby and Child Care in 1946. The book has sold some 22 million copies and has been translated into 18 languages. 
"I was the only doctor at the time 
who had both pediatric and psycho­
amlytical training,'' Spock explain­
ed. "So I was asked Ly some 
doctors to write a book about child 
development.'' 
"I wrote each day from 9 a.m. to 
p.m. for three years," he continued. "I was scared doctors would be very critical. In fact, it was very successful with parents and pediatricians as well." 
When asked how students should become involved to change society, Spock encouraged the stu­dents in the audience to "join political movements." He further emphasized the need for people to get involved in community organi­zations and even encouraged people to join, if interested, the People's Party with which he is affiliated. 
One student challenged Spock's support of socialism, which he did not elaborate on in his talk, saying that Britain fell because of social­ism. Spock responded by saying, "The problem is that Britain has not gotten into socialism. Their form of socialism is a combination 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Debbie Dahrling 
Asst.  Night  Editor:  Steve  
Odland  
layout  Staff:  Theresa  Riche­ 

son, C111dy McKiel, John Cal­cutt Editorial layout: Chris Smith Features layout: Tim ()'Reiley Sports layout: rred Herbst Typists: Kitty Conklin, Susan Shellenburger, Mel Celeste, Kathy Egbert E.M.T.: Karen Ch1arnes Day Editor: Mary Pat Tarpey 
Copy Reader: Cathy Nolan Photographer: Dominick 
Yociu~ 
Happy B-day to Julie Pt•llet­tit>re, the long lost Observer layout pPrson! 
ll11· ( )!'"'"'''" puhl"h,-cl Mond,!\ throu~l> I rtd.11 .11111 '"'''h l1 dur111~ tht· r.,tmllllPr ..,t •.,. ... ll,ll, -,.,, t•pt dunng th" ,.,,un .1nd 1 '" ,lt!IHl l~~'rtod, I hf' Olh<·• ll'r" publ"lwd h, 'tud••nt~ ol tht· lol\"r"t' ot Notr·•· [),mw ,md )I ,\1M\ ' Collt-~1· '>uh'>< rlption'> m.l\ ht• pun h.l"'d ,lor '1>211 pt•r \'f'olf ($illjll'r "'llii''IPr) trom I ht• ( lhwr­\t'r. llo\ Q. ~otrt· l),ww_ lndt,lnd 4h'i'ih 'wumd • I"'·' IH"Id~o· JMtd, 
NotrP D.tmt•_ lnd1.tn.t 4b'i'ih Tht• ()b,PrvPr " .1 nwmher ot thP A,"n< tdlt•d Prt''" •\II n·produ<tton 
nght' drt• n·..,t~nt>d 
········································•e•••••e••••••••••••••e••••ee•• 

a a a a SENIORS!a a a a 
Who will be your Senior Fellow? 
Nominate one today! 
just fill out the ballot below and drop in any one of the ballots boxes at the dining halls, the huddle, student activities office, and yes, the senior bar NOMINATIONS CLOSE WEDNESDAY NIGHT, SO HURRY!! *** 
Your name and address* 
Nominee's name & accomplishments* 
of socialism and capitalism." spent a great deal of money ­"My socialism believes in de­including my father's money, and mocracy," he clarified. I've worked hard. Now I'm going 
Finally, concerning a faculty to get it back,' " Spock stated. member's inquiry about why med­Spock's appearance in Washing­ical students, though demonstrat­ton Hall concluded with an informal ing high ideals, become preoccu­discussion on the stage with a small pied with making money Spock group of students. explained that it is because we "we His presentation was sponsored live in a profit society." by the Notre Dame Student Union 
"The student probably says, 'I Aciidemic Commission. 


the senior bar 
is having their first annual 
Christ01as Party wednesday dec. 8 9-2 with a rash of specials see tomorrow's large ad. 
CJ"here IS • tJifferen~e!!! fi! 
PREPARE FOR: 
MCAT• OAT• LSAT• SAT 
GRE • GMAT • OCAT • CPAT • VAT 
O~~t~r 31 years of experlenQe 1nd succ:eu. Small classes. Vol­
uminous home study mat•rllls. Courses thlt are const1nt1y
Updated. Centers open ~YI lo wMkends 111 year. Complete 
tape flcllltles for review of cl1ss lessons 1nd lor use of 
supplemerftlry materlall. M•ke-ups for milled lessons 11 
our centers. 
ECFMG • FLEX 
NAT'L MEDICAL & DENTAL BOARDS 
Flexible Program• & Hours 
Our broad range of programs prov•Oes an umbrf'lla oiiP~IInQ kno~A~ how that @nables us to otter the best prf'paratron av;:utahlt-lur!ht•r 
•morov1ng the tndlVIdual course vou ve ll.Pieclc>d 


~~~;~:~;~~~~:~olis also ~-~N-t{
Other campuse<i 
MM! 
Most classes · 8 weeks before exam EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
Outs•de NY State Onty 
~~~~rH 800·221•9840 TEST PREPARATION C,r~tpr•'" MIJOJ us C•IIE'S SPECIALISTS SINCE 1038 
::.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:::.:::::::::::::.:::.:.:::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ ~ ~ ~ 
•••• c~~~::Ji::~~~:J~f:~itt ·· 

• -
Your Source for the Unusual 
....... ,.... 
Five co-signers* 
··································~··································· 




Tuesday, December 7, 1976 the observer 


Stoltze resigns as VP for SMC student affairs 
by Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor 

Mary Ann Stoltze, Vice Presi­dent for Student Affairs at ~amt Mary's announced her resignation yesterday "due to personal rea­sons." According to Stoltze, this resignation is the first of its kind at St. Mary's. 
"I really like the workings of 
student government, but I can't continue it at this time," Stoltze explained. She declined to com­ment further on her resignation. 
Student Body President Mary Lu Bilek also declines to comment on the reasons behind the resigna­tion. stated. "I think it will say in her resignation letter'for personal reasons.' She was competent and capable. She filled the position well. and I am sorry she has resigned." she added. 
The resignation was effective yesterday. According to Bilek. she is required to give three weeks notice. but the three weeks will be 
Water main broken in Fischer 
Bylom Eder 
Staff Reporter 

On Friday morning at approxi­mately 3:00am. !I student working in the study lounge in Fischer Hall's basement found water rising above his ankles. He quickly alerted members of the hall staff. who discovered that a water main had broken outside the hall. 
According to Father Ebey. rector of Fischer Hall. "The tremendous pressure caused by the breakage rc.,ultcd in water coming through the maid's room in to the base­ment." He stated that Hanley Plumbing and a representative of the power plant had the water flow stopped at abput 5:30 am. By that time about four inches of water had accumulated throughout the base­ment. 
"Since there are also students' room~ in the basement. there was some damage to rugs and car­pets." Ebey noted. "But we are very happy that no one was hurt and there was as little damage as there was.'' he added. 
Mr. Kenneth Kempf. assistant director of the power plant. stated, "The water main outside Fischer is eighteen years old. Other than that. "I can give no definite explanation of why the main broke. There are several things that can go wrong with such an offset main. 
But none of these occurred. Iguess it can he termed as just one of those things.·· Kempf concluded. 
The pipe breakage in Fischer was unrelated to the one in Keenan which occurred last Wednesday. 
Reporter meeting for Observer 
There will be a pre-Christmas Observer staff reporter's meeting Wednesday, Dec. 8 at 7 pm in LaFortune Theatre. 
Present staff reporters should attend this meeting. Any students who want to write next semester are also welcome. 
need posters in a hurry? 
.· 
I

• • A
•nsly·pr•nls 
the wiz of the printingbiz! 

100 -11 x17 posters Only $10.00 
203 N. Main SoBend 289-6977 


she added. 
As vice president for Student Affairs. Stoltze was resl?onsible for the Student Life Commission (SLC) and was instrumental in the forma­
tion o SMC Hall Presidents' Coun­cil (HPC). she also planned the Thanksgiving celebration and su­pervised the publication of The Grapevine a student government newsletter. 
"Under the manual, my only duty was Student Life Commission. The HPC just kind of happened. since we had no hall life commis­sioner, the job fell to me," Stoltze said. The responsibility of direct­ing the HPC has recently been 
LLJ 
I 1­
NO 

SMC 
·THEATRE 
Two-Year Scholarships Now Available The Navy will pay the tuition and furnish books plus $100 a month subsistence for your Junior and Senior Years at college, if you can qualify for one of our special 2-year NROTC Scholarship pro­grams. For further information, no obligation of course, call 283-6442. 
You Have Your Degree 
Now Preparefor a Career in One of A111ericasNeJ,Yest Growth Industries 

Fund Raising Management 
Adelphi University offers an intensive post baccalaureate program in fund raising management. The program is the first of its kind in the country to train individuals for leadership in this dynamic profession. 
A career in Fund Raising Management offers multiple opportunities to use diverse talents and knowledge in a professional capacity, and to make a contribution to the community in association with industrial, civic and cul­tural leaders. 
Two convenient times and locations: 
DAY PROGRAMS: 
June 13-September 2, 1977-Adelphi Campus 
September 26-December 16, 1977-Adelphi Campus 
EVENING PROGRAM: 
April 11-0ctober 1, 1977-Mid-Manhattan 

For a free brochure about this career opportunity mail the coupon below: 
-----------------------cP~--­
Name Phone~ _ ~~ __--_ 1 Address 
--------1 
___state

City ~ 
I 
D Spring Day 0 Fall Day D Spring Evening 
Mail to: I Fund Raising Management Program 1


Adelphi I I 
Adelphi University I Garden City, New York 11530 I

ADELPHI UNIVERSITY 
Adelphi University is committed to ex-1IN COOPERATION WITH THE NATIONAL CENTER 

tending equal opportunities to all Who I FOR DEVELOPMENT Qualify academically. I TRAINING 
DELICATE BALANCE 
Edward Albee's portrait of disintegrating love. 
Dec. 3,4,9,10,11 
added to the duties of the Vice 
President of Student Affairs listed 
in the manual. 
"You can add to the job what you want. If you have thepeopleand are flexible, you can be creative and initiate new ideas," Stoltze said. 
She indicated that The Grapevine was initiated "so we could better inform the students of the workings of Student Assembly and student government in general. 
When asked about the possibility that she may run for a student government position in March.­Stoltze replied, "It's debatable at this point. I just don't know." 

over Christmas break. Stoltze formally announced her resignation at the Student Assembly meeting last night. 
According to St. Mary's Proce­dural Manual. which illustrates the structure of St. Mary's community government, the new vice presi­dent must be elected by the student body. Both Bilek and Stoltze expressed their dissatisfaction wih this policy. 
"We ran as a team. and let's face it. I'm breaking up the team," Stoltz said. "To keep it a cohesive 
group.  Mary Lu  should  have the  
perogative  to  appoint  some­ 
one  rather than  having  to  run  a  

whole election." Stoltz called the 
that Mary Miganelli's #4902, is in charge of nominations. Campaign­ing is scheduled to start Monday, Jan. 17. the first week back from Christmas vacation. "Usually the platform is due at the end of the campaign, but this time it is due at the beginning of the campaign period," Bilek said. 
The election is scheduled for Jan. 24. "We go out of office April I, so she should only hold office 
from  Jan.  24  to  April  I,"  Bilek  
explained.  "It's  a  real  good  
opportunity  for  someone  who  

wanted to run next year to get a taste of student government," she added. 

-----------------------------~ 
*The Observer 
anindependentstudentnewspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College It does not necessarily reilect the policies of either institution The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their author~ Column space is available to all members of the communrt\. and letters are encouraged to promote the free e\pre~sron oi varying opinions on campus. 
Business Manager Tom Fronczak Advertising Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor Tony Chifari Production Manager Martha L Fanning 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Phones: (219) 283-8661 [NO] (219) 284-5365 [SMC] 
EDITORIAl BOARD 
Thomas 0'Neil  Editor-in-Chief  
Dan Sanchez  Managing Editor  
Chris Smith  Asst. Managing Ed.  
Gregg Bangs  Executive Editor  
-Val Zurblis  Executive Editor  
Pat Hanifin  Editorial Editor  
Bob Mader  Exec. News Editor  
Maureen Flynn  Campus Editor  
Marti Hogan  St. Mary's Editor  
Don Reimer  Copy Editor  
Tim O'Reiley  Features Editor  
Fred Herbst  Sports Editor  

Tuesday, December 7, 1976 
Editorial 



0 Christmas Tree 
It is hard to get into the Christmas spirit at Notre Dame. The rush of finals is on, the snow is piled deep, a decree has gone forth banishing nat ural Christmas trees from the dorms. So, Fr. Robert Griffin, the Univer­sity chaplain, and those helping him have done the University a service by arranging for a Ctlmmunity Christmas tree as a focus fllr the season's spirit. 
The tree will be one of those growing near LaFortune and will be dedicated in a ceremony Thursday night. The blessing will be followed by a party at Darby's Place, providing a welcome break from s1 udies. Griffin has recruited the support of S1udent Government and the Office of S1 udent Affairs (which is really not staffed wi1 h Scrooges and Grinches ). Contribu­
tions  are  still  needed  to  pay  for  the  
dec1lrations;  it  would  be  fitting  if  the  
mrmey  came  from  many  people  in  the  
c~ •mmuni1 y.  

In 'he midst of the last dreary push to The end of the semester, Griffin's project offers a bit of Christ mas cheer. 

Doonesbury 
MR.PAIN/i,I IUHY, JHANf( 
ACTUAUY, I 6NJOY 
MUST TI3L.L YOU YOU, MRS. 
MOST OF 7J.I/3 SHOU/5 YOUOON7 
I'M AN AVID fAN OAVCNPOI<T! 
ON PBS. IT's ~UY SAY. 
Of YOUR PU8UC I'M V13RY 
THe ONL.Y R£A50N I 
AFFAIRS SHOW! F£A77F:R£1?/ 
OWN A TEil.EV/5/0N.
I I 
I 
(}(, I'M AN A850/..IIfC REAUY? ARE YO// APOICT.' ESP£0AUY YOIJ &V/3N S/3R/OU5'? IN 7J.I£ MORN!N6I I IUATCH OUR YOUR ()(GKJIJV MAO#f. YOU MEAN, TH£R.E'5 JIJST MORNING HOIJR SlJlKTS A5TONISH Nf!THIN6 ftse ON! MY OAY! M£! 
I I
~· I 


A Challenge 
Dear Freddy: 

~ I don't want ot waste my time writing you a letter. I'd rather settle the matter where it counts. How about a basketball game someday--1'11 spot you 6 points. 
Carol Lally 751502014 
P.S. You set the time and place.

• ~ Supports 
Dear Editor: 

' 
I would have to offer my support for Fred Herbst's story regarding women's basketball at the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community. You• cold think that a women's college basketball team would have lear­t ned fundamentals by now. I hope we aren't serious about making 
• Notre Dame women's basketball a varsity sport. My younger sister, a sophomore in high school, could 
~ beat either team singlehandedly on any given day ... Varsity status? Let's wait a few years. 
Mike 'Monte' Towle 


Raps Herbst 
Dear Editor: 
I for one am appalled at the radio comments and recent column of my so-called boss and. his even more dubious title, Sports Editor: Mr. Fred Herbst. _ 
In the first place, what really galls me is that is not his depart­ment. What gives him the right to make such rash, uncalled for, and obviously ludicrous remarks that come only under my and the SMC Sports Editor's jurisdiction? 
Let me make it clear that none of h is remarks reflect my attitude in the slightest. How could they? How could his remarks be indica­tive of anyone who has followed women· s basketball, at least during last vear? 
After following ND women's hasketball very exensively last vear. both as an announcer and ~ports writer. I feel a little more qualified to comment on their play last Saturdav. Yet is it really necessary? An article summarizing the play-by-play action would have sufficed. THe rest is obvious, it seems to me. 

Fred, if you and women's basket­ball "don't agree", as you say, then why did you insist on writing this story? Why did you not let one of the members of the SMC of ND women's sports staff cover it, as is their job? Anyone would have done it more justice than you. 
Finally. as one of the women's sports editors. I would like to apologize to both teams for the obvious injustice done to their play, and for the poor journalistic com­ment appearin15 in my department of the sports page. 
Eileen O'Grady ND Women's Sports Editor 


Another Rap 
Dear Editor: 
This letter is being written in response to the article entitled ··Banana Oil'' written by Mr. Herbst. In our four years at Notre Dame we have never seen a more cynical sports editor. All year long his critical barbs have been flung at the Notre Dame athletic programs. but in this article he has reached an all-time low. 
Mr. Herbst fails to make a mature comment in the entire article. He did not mention that since it was the first game of the year, the teams could be nervous and that this factor may have caused some of the errors commit­ted. Nor did he take into acacount the hard work Sally Duffy did to prepare her team for the game. She gives two hours of her time five days a week with no pay just so she and her team can have fun playing organized basketball. All die joy she experienced in seeing her team win must have been tarnished by his base story. Maybe Mr. Nerbst does not understand the purpose of the athletic pro­grams at Notre Dame. If he doesn't, we suggest he develop such an understanding so as to improve his reporting ability. If he does understand this purpose he sh should spend more time analyzing his reporting methods to enable him to report the total picture rather than the limited scope he recently presented in the Observer. 
Either way his ability to cover a story will improve. 
In conclusion, we wish to em phasize that the aforementioned opinion of Mr. Herbst is held by inany people of theNotre Dame community. We believe that Mr. Herbst should at least give some credit where credit is due, rather than incessantly carp on the ath­letic activities here at Notre Dame. We believe the inadequate and biased reporting of Fred Herbst should be upgraded to the more professional level that the Observer 
has dem onstrated over  the  past  
years.  
JamesHage  

Geroge Brengel Elton D. Moore Frank Aiello Ted Schade 


Yet Another 
Dear Editor, 
I would like to thank Mr. Herbst for showing this campus what real male chauvinism is in his com mentary, "Basketball At Its Fi­nest." The only conclusion I can come to is that after having been stifled all football season. (the football players are too big to pick on). Mr. Herbst, needing someone to criticize, chose women's basket­ball. He says in his article, ''I'd rather have personality than a win any day." Sorry Fred, but you don't have either. 
Mary Ellen Burchett Sandy Mertensotto 


And Another 
Dear Editor: 
Anger isn't the word. 
Fred Herbst and women's bas­ketball don't agree. We are sorry. We are also sorrv that The Obser­ver would bow so.low as to print his article as "coverage" of a sports event. Herbst not only failed to report objectively on the game. he also managed to slander both Notre Dame and St. Mary's teams, coaches and fans in one mindless motion of the pen. 
Women's basketball is not a varsity sport at NO. Women are not offered scholarships. THey are not recruited from around the nation. High school athletic pro­grams for girls have improved tremendously over the past few years. Six years ago basketball still followed "girls' " rules: six players on a team, three on ofense and three on defense and you couldn't cross the center line. Women's basketball may not be equal to the play of the men, but is is through no fault of their own. 
The time devoted by each mem­ber to the sport is extraordinary. The dedication of Coach Sally Duffy to her team and to women's athletics at Notre Dame is unmat­ched. If she "was like a little kid" at the game on Saturday it was a true display of excitement, emotion and concern for a team that she has shaped over the past two years. 
If what is important is how many turnovers we have each game then women should give up basketball altogether. But we will not give up basketball. or any other sport, simply because we cannot play up to the standards of men like y ou, Mr. Herbst, who insist on a serious game yet are delighted by the "cute" cheers of the St. Mary's fans. If you could know how much that game meant, and how much women's sports mean, to the players, coaches, and women stu­dents of Notre Dame then maybe you would realize what your article stnads for. We cannot ignore your article, but we will survive it, just as we have survived all the cruel, insensitive words we have heard in the past. 
Please, Mr. Herbst, do not come watch women's basketball if it offends you, and do not write any 
more us.  articles because you  offend  
Barb Frey Martha Dwyer Marietta Martin and 17 others  


Still Another 
Dear Editor: 
In regard to Mr. Herbst's article in yesterday's Observer, I feel he has overstepped the boundaries of acceptable journalism by reverting to a series of unsophisticated personal attacks. • 
There seem to be several differ­ent levels with which one oculd view this article. First, it is a piece· of reporting, relaying the scores and some of the events of the game. This, of course, is journal­ism at its most basic level. Second, it is a commentary on the events of the game and ·of th ose who participated in it: it is an obvious right of Mr. Herbst, as a columnist, to criticize the game and the events that took place. It is going beyond this to which I object. 
I cannot acdept his personal attack on the people, the players and coach, who participated in this game. Ignoring women's issues, women's rights. women's move­ment. Mr. Herbst seems to have side swiped the whole point of the game. 
What Notre Dame's women's basketball consists of. in my opin­ion, is a group of players. headed by a coach, all of whom take seriously themselves as waell as the gave of basketball. Most have played for years and have put much time and work (ie. dedication) into the game and their personal devel­opment as well as team growth. 
After competing with many others to make the team. these players practice several times a week under the direction of their coach who in turn puts in more hours handling the team's adminis­trative details. 
Granted he may not have liked the quality of the game and granted he may not like women's basketball (this is his prerogative as a sports columnist) , he cannot be justified in insulting people's integrity, to actually make fun of those who are serious about themselves, as play­ers, and the game. 
If Mr. Herbst feels he is justified in printing this attack then I must confess that I think Mr. Herbst, and all that he stands for as a columnist in the Obsen·er, is a farce. 
.iudy arenson 
Editor's note: 
The above is a sample of the letters we received in response to Fred Herbst's column which appeared in yesterday's Obser­ver. We emphasize that this was a sports opinion column and does not speak for the entire Observer staff. 
Space does not permit us to print aU of the letters we received. By 8:30 p.m. last night, we had received 191etters -18 opposing the column, 1 supporting. 


B~ Leo Hanson 
Man lives in a dual environment. That which man has constructed, since his conquest of the of structure and form, we call the artificial or built environment. All else is termed nature, or the natural environment. 
Within the natural environment man encounters a succession of interactions and relationships which potentially affect man's personality, development and well­being. The patterns of an earthly culture pattern our thoughts, fears and actions. For example, an individual may be psychologically intimidated by a personal fear of an unknown entity, such as a dark and secluded forest. Yet one senses a sense of security within the enclosure and protective territoriality that the forest yields. A palm tree in the midst of a desert defines a focal point which may attract a wanderlost traveler. and may imply a sort of psychological balance. A grassy plain is less stimulating than rolling hills or a ragged shore. All such factors play an important role in the ecological system, nature's mechanism of harmony and balance. 
Man is also responsible for his actions within the built environment, which, significantly, portray similar functions as its natural counterpart. With everything man builds. he requisitions a new relation­ship with the world in which he lives. 
The University of Notre Dame is an "academic village" in concept and form, even from its initial conception. Within the boundaries of his miniature environment, all life functions exist: life. work. learning, and play. Each life function plays an important role in the determination of the village criteria, and from the beginning the founders of the University sought responses to these criteria. 
As early as 1849. Father Sorin envis­ioned the Grande Avenue lined with trees and leading to the monument focal point. now Notre Dame Avenue and the Golden Dome. respectively. This was a deliberate 

d d • • 

psychological nee s. An not surpnsmg y, it was an historically French response (Versaille imitation) to the environment, since the land on which the university is located was dominated by French explor­ers. 
The site, founded on Nov. 27, 1842 by Father Sorin and company after eleven days of explorations, is a reaction to a natural amenity (St. Mary's Lake) which typically serves as the source of human settlements. 
Thus. Notre Dame duLac began it's progression of growth. From a melting pot of planning ideas, including those of Jefferson at Virginia. and French Baroque and English Garden traditional beliefs, gradually the campus took form. 
An administration building, built in 1879 to replace an earlier one destroyed by fire, a gothic revival church, and a music hall (now Washington Hall) formed the first triad of buildings which dominated the landscape. This set the precedent for the central complex, is which the main building served as vertex and link between an academic line of buildings: Music The addition of the Memorial library an the high atmosphere which earlier planning concepts idealiz­rise residential dorms [bottom] revolted against an ed. The result is anomie -t~ere is no clear sense historical precedent of a subdued but formal of direction or dramatic relief. 

(Washington Hall), Science (LaFortune) and technology (Hoynes Hall) and the religious and residential side, Walsh, Sorin and Sacred Heart Church. The quadrangle was enclosed on the south by a post office and Porter's House. Old Door Road crossed the axial avenue at the entrance, now he center of South Quad. 
The central quadrangle incorporated functionally, aesthetically and psycholo­gically sound ideas. The urban landscape was stimulating; relatively at ease of perception; it introduced dynamic tension and a sense of movement; it resolved that tension through the use of a focal point at one end; it created a sense of enclosure within the space, by the buildings and the trees. Perhaps no lesser significance was the fact that it provided a space suitable for the life-activities of a collegiate environ­ment. allowing for an inward focus and an emphasis on social communication. 
As the University continued to expand, similar ideas were pursued by the develop­ers of the religious community. The private, territorial spaces assumed by the morphological forms of Dillon and Alumni Halls (reminiscent of Oxford and Cam­bridge) and the triad of Lyons, Howard and MOrrissey. expound further on creative urban exploitations. The South Quadran­gle at least equals the success achieved in the central core complex, as a planning unit. The space i~ more linear, though less climatic, and more definitive and enclo­sing. And, with the exception of the modern buildings of Pangborn. Fisher, O'Shaughnessey and the Bookstore, the building textures are diverse and enrich­ing. Ao; a focal point of activity, it is possibly without too many equals within 
these United States. 
Still. mysteriously, the quadrangle turns 
it back upon the lake, a non-figural but still 
symbolically important element. Chairman 
Kerrick of the Architecture department 
fought for lake orientation, but managed 
only to incorporate the Lyons Hall arch in 
the design. 

This, a blessing in disguise, is perhaps 
one of the most dramatic urban expres­
sions on campus. The arch serves as a •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
prelude.. in either direction. between thee c· ·n So th Be d • 
natural and built environments, it is a. dynamic transitional form, which frames or prefigures the ensuing experience. • Still intense are other campus-planning. phenomena in which a sense of urban. 
drama is portrayed within certain paths and nodes, such as the linear, axial. progressio!l which prece~es the an; hit~c-· 
ture buildtng (the Old Ltbrary), wtth tts. 
· t 'tt tI Th
monumenta entry. e tn ermt en appearance and disappearance of the. Sacred Heart steeple and the dome, the. essence of the traditional Notre Dame. village-scape, as one proceeds around the 
many walks around the campus highlight8 this urban expression. • Such excitement, unfortunately was lost.. when the planners of modern Notre Dame went to work. It seemed they lost contact8 or feeling for all the environmental and. psychological energies, which had been. the historical precedent but now became 
lost in a morass of extreme functionalism. • In cities and towns, this architectural. boredom has enriched pathologies such as. 
isolation, aggression, insecurity, monot­ony. 8 According to A. E. Parr, sociologist, "As. 
we make surroundings more and more. uniform, well-regulated and predictable, we force the adventurous to resort to more. 
and more irregular, unpremeditated or. rebellious behaviour." While social aggression is perhaps not a
• serious problem at Notre Dame. the. creation of a suitable collegiate environ-. mentis. How much a Flanner or Grace or a Stanford-Keenan detracts from the atmos-· phere of the campus is perhaps worth. 
consi?ering.. But ~he lack of impetus is a. horses while topless, all with a totally clear defimte ~ons1deratwn. . , . . • conscience. 
The climax of Father Sorm s Imagma-, . . tion, the grande entrance, is now some-· . Well, that s all very well, llmagm~. ~ut what lost behind a guard house, a bus. m th~ end, Alice In Wonderlan.d IS hke 
station, the Morris Inn, the Post Office. An watchmg Henny Youngman dehver one-
even greater offense is their extreme•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
blandness and lack of response to any external criteria, save for the functionality of the automobile. The abberation of O'Shaughnessy tfall is an even greater addition to this mysterious and sudden failure of planning. Even the minor details. such as the countless silver wire poles which augment the natural aesthetic expression of the "village" green detract fromthe attractiveness of the campus. 
The cold and sterile new "crossroads area" was obviously designed for the summertime, although most ND students attend school during the winter. This contradiction is further continued by the statement "The trees will eventually grow and hide the surrounding buildings". If the buildings were interesting to begin with, such a need would not arise. Again historical precedent (for example, Place. du Vosges in Paris) should have been heeded. 
Future plans only extend the modern failures, and further the delocalization, sterilization and insensitivity of functional­ism which has stagnated and destroyed envigorating atmosphere upon which the university's foundations exist. lnscnsitivi­ty to and overutilization of material'>. lack of creativity in design, pseudo-morphologi­cal form response, and ignoranc eor denial of urban/historical precedent are architec­tural abberations which contribute to urban problems in the design of this campus. 
Future considerations should keep these concepts at hand. As the univcP.. ity expands. Functionalism is not a glas::.-cn­closed shelter from the cold or heat; architectural creativity is not a plastic flower bed on either side of an entrance to a hotel lobby; and certainly a huge mural attached to the main facade of a building, is not an aesthetic response much beyond naive. 
Once these definitions are mastered, then perhaps responses to more human needs might evolve, naturally. 
·'o/ 
the observer 

merna I U n •
G -A k AI'
0 S B D ·d O'K (.
y avl ee.e 
Alice In Wonderland 
Directed by Bud Townsend Starring Kristine de Belle 

Alice, in the real world, is a virgin librarian who refuses to go out with Tom because he likes "that kind of girl," whereas Alice is saving herself for mar­
·
riage. She sings about wantmg to grow up again all over when all of sudden the White Rabbit appears and leads her through the looking glass into Wonderland. Wonderland is something else again. It's a forest infested with all sorts of neurotic erotics. The Mad Hatter is an exhibitionist. Humpty Dumpty fell off the wall and has been rendered impotent. Tweedle Dee and Tweedle Dum are a charming young couple that frolic in the 
glade wearing nothing but goofy little beanies. The Queen of Hearts is a Nazi-nympho-Amazon-lesbian type, and 
the King is a black stud. 

Alice gets a lesson in sex from each character she meets, stopping on occasion to sing a song. (Example: She encounters 
'd d k · h 1 · · 
a young ma1 en an a mg t copu atmg m 
a meadow and belts out, "What's a nice girl like you doing on a knight like this?") And in the end, she is liberated. She returns to the real world relieved of all her archaic notions about sex and is able to enjoy making love with Tom and riding 
JCe • 
liners with his pants down. It's not all that. funny and hardly sexy. • 
Producer Bill Osco seems to have. assigned himself a difficult task in life. He appears to be dedicated to making a movie. that successfully combines sex and come-· dy. After Flesh Gordon and now Allee, the. search very definitely has not been completed. Whether or not it can be donee 
is doubtful. Laughter and lust seem to be. inherently irreconcilable in such great. degree, although they worked together rather nicely on a less intense level in more. than one film (Lovers and Other Strangers. and Play It Again, Sam are good exam-. pies). 
The sex in Alice is as bad as the puns. and one-liners. After Humpty Dumpty. suffers his calamity. Alice takes pity on. him and performs a charitable service that 
restores his manhood. All the while he. laments that he has been reduced to "ae shell of a man" and insists that people. always said of him, "He's a good egg." 
His costume, and all the others, look like. Mrs. Osco sewed them in her spare time.• One br1'ght spot 1's the music, which is 
• 
surprisingly good and gives a lively pace to 
the whole thing. • 
The X-rating isn't as serious as it. sounds. Omitting some of the unnecessar-. ily lewd scenes probably would have earned it an innocent R. In any event,. Allee In ~on~erland is onl:,: ~ 'To'il~ly. offensive d1vers1on and entertammg m 1ts. 
own way. The soft-pedalled porn and 
soft-soaped story are, as in most films of. this type, mere excuses for a boys night.2!!!· 


Tuesday, December 7, 1976
the observer 



Billy Carter unlucky in Plains mayoral race 
PLAINS, Ga. AP -President-elect 
Carter's kid brother. Billy. lost the 
Plains mavoral election to the 
town's barber Monday by a 90-71 
margin. 
"I think I cost him the ekction," 
said the more successful politician 
in the familv. 
"I'm sorr\• \'OU lost." the Presi­
dent-elect ioid his 39-year-old­
brother at a win-or-lose celebration 
in Bill,. Carter's service station 
next dl)ur to the cit~· hall. 
"People in Plains proba~ly 
thL'\ 've got enough Carters wm­
nin.g clt:L;i,ms." 
Billv Carter lost to A.L. Blanton, 
"hu i~ abo an air traftic controller. 
He \\Una wcond two-vear term in 
the $SO-a-month job. · 
"I think it's tough with a 
brother "ho·~ President," the 
President-elect said. "I think I cu~t 
him the ell'ction. He would have 
made a great mavur. .. 
When the (\\ u men first faced 
each other in a mavoral election 
t\\ o \-cars aP,o. Carter lost b~· six 
n1tes. although he has sometimes 
L'laimed he lost b~· onh· four. 
Billv Carter had expected day­
long rain~ to boost his chances. 
telling reporters that the weather 
''ould not deter bee;)drinkers from 
'i~iting the polls. Billy Carter's 
'>ervice station. next door to citv 
hall. is one of onlv three establish­
ments in Plains that sell beer. 
ThL' younger Carter. who cam­
paigned on a platform of preserv­
ing thi-. city of 683 much as it was 
bdorc his brother was elected. 
began dispensing free beer to his 
friends and supporters at the 
service station as soon as the polls 
closed. 
Billv Carter's campaign mana­
ger. Leon Johnson. a local contrac­
tor. took the defeat stoically. saying 
"We fouled up." 
But Billy Carter himself was not 
especially gracious. 
"I see Plains going straight to 
hell." he said before television 
cameras. 
"Is it took late to save the 
to,,n?" someone asked. 
"I think it is probably too late," 
Billy Carter replained. "If the 
peoplewant it to go to hell. I'll back 
out and let it go." 
"Do vou think vour brother did 
all he could tohelp?" the younger 
Carter was asked. He replied with 
one word: "No... 
Earlier in the dav. however. he 
acknowledged that ihc onlv vote he 
''as counting on for sure was that 
of Jimnl\ Carter. 
Billv Carter has campaigned on a 
Volunteers needed for South Bend 
The Office of Volunteer Services i'> 111 need of students to fulfill the 'arious volunteer requests from members of the South Bend Com­munitv. These volunteer oppor­tunities include: 
-tUILlring a 12 year old boy in reading who reads at the 4th grade level. preferably male 
-assist the Clay Neighborhood Center in providing food items and preparing Christmas food baskets for needv people 
-tutoring a 20 year old in accounting who attends the Michi­ilna College of Commerce 
-helping the YWCA with a CIJri'>tmas party for their retarded girls club 
-hl'lping the YWCA with their Inner Citv Basketball League as officials. ~corekeepers and coaches 
-participating in a discussion on college life which is being held for high'>chool senior girls this Thurs­dav night. Dec. 9. from 4:30 to 6 pm. Six girls arc needed and dinner i~ included 
-babysitting every Wednesday night from b:45 to I 0 pm for three handicapped children ages eight, ten. and eleven. Transportation will be provided. 
Any students interested in fulfil­ling any of these volunteer oppor­tunities are welcome to stop by Volunteer Services at 1.5 Lafor­tune or call Joan Griffin or Pete Wolf at 7308. 

platform of avoiding drastic changes in his home town, invaded by tourists, real estate operators and entrepreneurs since his bro­ther was elected President. 
Walking from the Carter peanut wareh<>usc to city hall, Carter engaged in a spirited exchange with reporters: 
Q. Do you have aspirations for hil.!her office? 
..........~ 

~ir Richard's
g ®
HAIR SULING
Member of 1976 Award Winning State Hairstylin') 
FOR MEN & WOMEN Stylist 
277-0734 129 Dixieway South 277-0734 (31 N in Roseland, half mile N. of Campus) 
CAMPUS MINISTRY WEST offices ground floor of Badin 
now student operated from 8 p.m to midnight throu h Thursda 
Q. Do you plan to maintain the A. At least one every two or three culture of your city? years anyway. 
A. I'm not sure Plains has any Q. What about appointing some of culture. the good old boys for some of the 
Q. Will you seek federal funds? posts you're going to have? 
A. You always seek federal funds. A. I'll only appoint friends and 
Q. Will you hold regular press supporters. I will not appoint the conferences? best man for the job. 




CHRISTMAS 
WILL BE HERE SOONER THAN YOU THINK···· SO DO YOUR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING AT THE 


CHRISTMAS BAZAAR 

Dec. 7,8,& 9 in LeMans Lobby 
Sponsored by SMC Social Commission 

A. Yes. I'm going to build an office upstairs. City hall has one floor so I can live a little higher. 
Q. Are the Carters looking to build a political empire like the Kennedys? 
A. No, we are not. 
Q. You don't plan to use this as a stepping stone? 
A. I imagine it will be stepping down, if anythinP_. 
Tuesday, December 7, 1976 the observer 
----~--------~~~~~~~~~----~ 


Bethlehem has busy post office 

BeTHLEHEM* Conn. AP--Jean Majauskas and three part-time clerks are working overtime in the tiny post offfice. They will mail !50.000 cards and letters--200,000 if the weather stays good-during this busy time of year in the little town of Bethlehem. 
"We do as much in three weeks as the rest of the year," said Majauskas. Bethlehem's postmis­tress. 
Thousands of persons visit this small town in werstern Connecticut during the three weeks before Christmas to mail their holiday greetings with the Bethlehem post­mark and something extra--sea­sona! sketches stamped on each envelope. Others send boxes of cards for mailing from Bethlehem. 
"We also get quite a few 
requests for the Dec. 25 postmark
Olga Korbut dazzled the ACC audience last night with her 
Carter considers INotre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre 
Doar for Atty. Gen.' 
[continued from page I] and Rep. Bob Bergland, U-Minn .. arc under consideration for Cabi­net-level post. 
Doar. who was cou;.sel for the House Judiciary Committe when it voted to recommend the House impeach. former President Richard 
M. Nixon,  has  been  reported  
under  consideration  to  the  U.S.  
attorney general.  

Bergland, a dose political asso ciatc of Vice President-elect Walter 
F. Mondale, is reportedly being considered for secretary of agricul­ture. 
On another subject, Carter said he planned to meet later with Charles Kirbo. the Atlanta attorney and close personal friend who is researching the form of the pardon Carter has promised to issue to Vietnam-era draft evaders. 
Carter said he has not decided whether to expand the pardon to other categories of violators. 
ND skiers to meet 
This evening the Notre Dame Skt Team will meet in room lc LaFor­tune at 7:00 p.m. all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's skiers planning to tryout for the 1976-I977 squad must attend. Topics to be discus­sed by men's team captain Tom Lux and women's team leader Nora Duffy will be team tryouts. the University's insurance policy and Christmas workouts. 
TRYOUTS FOR 

THEY 
~e~.t~n~l7:~i:;b~~~ 
(callbacks Dec. 8) O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
OPEN TO ALL ND-SMC STUDENTS[ 
SpecialHOlYDaYMasS~ IMMACULATE CONCEPTION 
5:00 p.m. Wed, December 8th 
Sacred Heart Church Celebrant: 
.. 

Rev. Wilham Toohey, C·S·C· 
There will also be a mass in Sacred Heart Church at 11 :30 a.m. on 
~:~:s~oa/.time~h!~M::!~s b~~~~~ 
dor• ~; .. 

dressed envelopes," said Majaus­kas. 
Bethlehem. Conn., is a Christ­mas-card scene this time of year with its oak and maple trees. three churches and snow covered land­scape. 
Earl Johnson was postmaster in 1938 when extra service, the rub­berstapped Christmas scenes, was begun. Johnson, now 72, said he wanted something extra for his own Christmas cards. Word got out and requests began pouring in. 
Today. the postmark and 32 t w 0 -inch-bY-two-inch rubber stamps are laid out on a table in the lobby of the post office for people to imprint their own cards. Artists and others have donated designs that include the to\\ n "s t_hrec churches_. Santa Cla~s. th~ V1rgm Marv wtth the Chnst child and Christmas bells. 
For years, Johnson paid $150 for the stamps. but two years ago the Postal Service began picking up the bill to promote goodwill. 
"I live here in town, .. said Jean Smith, as she stamped designs of her church, the First Church of Bethlehem, on letters she was mailing abroad. "This is our church," she said, pointing to the imprint she had just made on a card she was sending to Greece. 
Stuart Wilson Jr. and his "·ife. Carolyn. drove 2.5 miles from their home in Southbur~ to stamp and mail a packet of cards. 
··We·ve been makmg the trip since 1965... said Wil~on. "Pcopol' usuallv writ<: u~ a ktter comment· ing o~ hO\\ plca~ed they arc "tth the stamycd em-elope \\llh lklhlc· hem on tt. 

gymnastic prowess. [photo by Dominick Yocius]. for collectors. They send self-ad-~~~'f3~qs~~~1J:~~lf~~'IJ 
~  THE LIBRARy  ~  
~  
~  is having a  ~  




lcHRISTMAS PARTyt
t TUESDAY NIGHT t t1f, 9 12 w Q) All D ·. k -H lf p · "11 ~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 

t1f,t 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 

~ away ~ 

rm s a -nee.··· ~ 
We will be giving
lb & r
100 
a UfflS ·S 
So. come and 
~  
~  
tstt  
h"rt r I S.  a. ~ ~ ~ CoY ~  


~join in the Christmas Spirits! ~ ~~tJ'~~"~~~tf~~"~"' 
Classified Ads NOTICES Typina, Call Carolyn 232-9061. ANYONE FROM N.Y., N.J. CONN. OR MASS INTERESTED IN TAK­ING AMTRAK FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK PICK UP FORMS IN STU­DENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE IN LAFORTUNE BLDG. IMMEDI+ ATELY. REDUCED GROUP RATES AVAILABLE Accurate, Fast typina. Mrs. Dono­hoe, 232-0746 Hours 8 AM . 8 PM Need typina? Professional typina Service -Top Quality -Convenient location 232-0898 MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20 . $150. 1 day wait 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune basement M-F 11:15. 12:15 "MEDICAL SCHOOL in Mexico acceptina American students. Prac­tice in the US, WHO listed, HEW approved, 4 year course loans available, for December appoint­ment in your area call 219-867-4331 RIDES AVAILABLE!!! Cars goina to many destinations. Gas is the only expense. Call Bruce 8906 FOR RENT Roomates wanted for NO apt. Startina Jan. 1. Call 288-4113 Four bedroom house for rent . close to campus. Very reasonalbe. Well insulated and partially furnished. Call 277-3604 evenings. LOST AND FOUND Found: On senior trip in hotel, Man's watch. Call 8068 Jumper cables at St. Joe Airport. Monday mornina; call 287-5655  Found . 1 B-Ball ticket at the Library Sat. niaht. Call 8953 Lost Fri Dec 3 in the ena. auditorium a black osmiroid 65 pen with a left hand fine italics tip. Neat Huh? Sentimental value. Please call Mark 8540, Thanks WANTED 1 need a student packaae of B-ball tix!! Willina to pay Call Mike at 288-0088 Need 2 Indiana B-Ball tickets. Call Jimat8610 Riders needed to Ft. Lauderdale -Miami for Christmas Break. Must leave Friday, Dec. 17. Call Bob, 1419 Missed plane tor senior trip. Need a ride to San Dieao on About 2oth. Call Tim at 1715. niahts Need housemates, 4 miles; aood neinhborhood; furnished, color TV, pool table $60 inclues utilities. 233-2706 Wanted to buy: 1 Good 35mm SLR camera. Call Mark 259-3446 Wanted 1 packaae of Student B-Ball tickets for the remainder of the season. Call Mike at 288-0088 Need ride -Stamford Conn. Area Leave Sat. Call Kevin 8906 For Sale: Philips GA 212 Stereo Turntable. Shure V-15 type Ill cartridne. 6 months old. Call 7122 . Paul askina $150 '73 Veaa GT Hatchback, new en­nine, new tires, new exhaust sys. tern, A-c, Best offer, call 287-5655 Book Shop. Used books. Students Paradise. Open Wed., Sat., Sun., 9-7. Ralph Casperson Books, 1303 Buchannan Road. Niles Michiaa. 683-2888  FOR SALE Popcorn, For Sale: Philips GA212 stereo Please thank the munchkins for turntable. Shure V-15 type Ill everythina they did. How's hte cartridae. 6 months old. Call 7122 . queen munchkins leg. You're Paul. Asking $150 invited out tor a chocolate cip ice cream cone. '73 Vega GT Hatchback, new en­NUT gine, new tires, new exhaust sys­tem, a-C, Best offer, call 287-5655 Do you want to be a Catholic? Please call 283-6536 or 283-3820 for Book Shop. Used books. Student information about the Notre Dame Paradise. Open Wed., Sat., Sun., Catechumenate Program 9-7. Ralph Casperson Books, 1303 Buchannan Road. Niles Mich. 683­Campus Ministry West offices 2888 ground floor of Badin -now student operated from 8 p.m. to midnight, Skies, Hart Freestyle, 196 em., Sunday through Thursday excellent condition call 277-3762, nites till midnight. Do you have a package of B-ball tix you now feel you won't get the full AUDIO OUTLET top name stereo use of? Do you need some quick equipment wholesale. Call 283-1181 cash for Christmas? I desperately want and need a package for the rest Fur Coats for sale: Mouton Lamb, of the home season. Call Mike at Muskrat, sheered Beaver and mink. 288-0088 Call after 6 at 291-2258 Happy Birthday Peggy! (Alias-pop. Bankruptcy Sale! Dual 1219 auto­corn kid) From Sue, nancy, nellie, matic turntable. Low miles asking Betsy, Jerri, Linda, Teresita, Mary $120.00 Call Chet after 6 p.m. Jane, Kathy, Kim, Denisa, Sue, Colleen and Eva. Lange competition ski boots. Size PattyAnn-01310, $75, 8760 Thanks much for the shirt, coke """""an& fine noise. I'm holding my breath still. And you still don't PERSONALS believe me? Jimmie ATTENTION RUGBY PLAYERS Fonz and Koebs, you have to be the TEAM PICTURE TAKEN THURS. greatest guys in the world. You 4:00 AT CORBYS made our wedding the best ever. We' II never forget you both Bev. Duff and Michelle I love you (Meet me at Corby's)Love, Members of Stanford hall and other Leo friends. Thanks for the TV set. We really appreciate it. DEAR MARSA, Duff and Michelle. . You should know by now that the best laid plans don't work when I'm Gass, involved! Thank you, thank you, Thanks for the wheels on our Thank you -and BOY, was I ever wedding nile. surprised!!?! Duff and Michelle  Fran, Ur, er, Gilbert, Happy Birthday Fond Flanner Friend -s~~o;;:lfftf*-**••Only one more day to nominare' the Senior 11ass Fellow of your Thanks Tals, Patty for giving me a~~~'-*•*****great 19th. To everyone who come to surpise me. Thanks, too Jimmy Laura, Happy Birthday "Big" Little Sis­ter Your" Little" Bia sister Karen Chiames, Me interesas. PBTC Siva, The King is dead. I am a Freeman The King's Fool WE EAT WHEATIES. WE ARE FIT. FRED HERBST, HE EATS SH-­HE LOOK 5 LIKE SHREDOED WHEAT, TOO Maestro, Thanks for the best weekend! Want to play in the snow? M.G. B. STOP CALLING US! The girls of 1223 Woodward; that is . Bev, Ann, Annie, Maggie and Moira . will not accept any more dates over the phone. so, stop calling 287-2219. Resumes can be sent to 1223 Woodward, South Bend Indiana, 46616. Please supply all pertinent information . Notifications tor se­cond semester trysts will be sent out during the Christmas vacation. Thank you.  



the observer Tuesday, December 7, 1976
8 






ND looks for fourth against Wildcats 

by Paul Stewnson Sports Writer 
There's no one superstar on the Notre Dame basketball team this vear. just a well balanced attack. The players seem to alternate scoring honors. with a different indkidual pacing the Irish in each L'Ontest. The cagers' record stands at 3-0 as they prepare to host Northwestern tonight. 
Tex Winter and his North\\l''>t· tern squad come to South Bend with a 2-2 season mark. Last Wt:dncsdav in Evanston. the Wild­cat~ \\·ere· downed by eighteenth ranked DePaul 75-73 in overtime. :"1/orth,,·cstern rebounded from that to..~ last Saturday as they edged Ohio L" niversity 73-71. 
Bill McKinney. a six foot guard. ''ill be starting his fourth year for the Wildcats. He was the leading -,corer on last vcar's squad with Iq_8 p. p.g. and also became North­western's all-time leading scorer with 1384 total points. 
McKinney, Northwestern's sparkplug. scored 37 points against the Irish two years ago. In that c·ontcst. Notre Dame emerged vic­torious 100-84. "Northwestern is a vcrv young team with a balanced ,,·o~ing attack." Head Coach "Dig­

%06server 

sports 
Bowie Kuhn warns of re-entry draft dangers 
LOS ANGELES AP -Com­missioner Bowie Kuhn warned on Monday that baseball could be in troubie-if the trend of the recent re-entry draft continues and affects 
Notre Dame wins 
bJ Win Palmer Spurts Writer 
Notre Dame women's basketball team toplcd the women from St. Man·'s bv a score of 56-35 Saturdav aftct:nooti at the A.C.C Last vea·r St. Mary·~ edged Notre Dame t\\ icc in exciting contests. but Saturdav it wa~ all the Irish women a~ they-forced SMC into many turno\ er~. 
SMC '>cored first as Stuannc Da\ i-. hit a short jumper. Both team'> appeared nen•ous at this point a'> they were playing in front of a fair!~· large crowd. many of ,,·hom had remained from the earlier Notre Dame-Valpraiso game. but the teams soon settled d01m. Martha Kelly. an early substitution for St. Mary's, hit a couple of jumpers early in the game to deadlock the game at eight. Notre Dame then roared ahead as Carola Cumming and Margaret McMinamin each hit three buc­kets. It was a lead that Notre Dame was never to lose as they led 20-13 at halftime. 
Both teams came out fired up in the second half. St. Mary's was led by the shooting of Kathy Cullen, nancy Norwalk and marth Kelly who was the high scorere for SMC for the game with 10 points. Notre Dame. however. taking full advan­tage of their height advantage outscored SMC by a score of 36-22 in the second half. Pat Meyer and Carol Lally, who were high scorers for the Irish with 16 and 13 points respectively were outstanding in the second half as the Irish built a ger" Phelps commented. "McKin ney is one of the finest guards we will face all year." 
Joining McKinney in the back­court is senior Bob Hildebrand. The combo lends age to the otherwise young Northwestern squad and will hope to ignite the Wildcat attack. 
Pete Boesen, a 6-8 forward and Mike Cambell. a 6-10 freshman center add to the youth of the Wildcat team. Boesen has been a steady performer thus far this season. while Cambell is coming on strong as a freshman. In the overtime loss to DePaul. Campbell responded with two of the four Northwestern field goals in the overtime period. His youth doesnot seem to deter him from performing in clutch situations. 
This Wildcat squad is young and talented and could catch Notre Dame off-guard if the Irish happen to be looking ahead to Saturday's clash with UCLA in Paulie Pavilion. 
The Irish cannot afford to glance ahead; the Wildcats came close to dealing a strong DePaul team a loss and could give Notre Dame the same scare if the Irish are already feeling the \\·armth and sunshine of Los Angeles. 
Last Saturday's contest with Valparaiso foun-d Bruce Flowers turning in his best performance of 
the competitive balance of the game. 
"Some of the clubs, the New York Yankees and Boston Red Sox specifically. got stronger," Kuhn told delegates to the 75th annual convention. "It is fair to say that some harm was done to the competitive balance. 
''Eight of· the top free agents were signed by sun belt teams. This also could cause trouble. affecting the competitive balance." 
He failed to blame the teams but obviously was referring to the California Angels, who spent more than $4 million signing Don Baylor, 
Joe Rudi and Bobby Grich; San Diego, which picked up Gene Tenace and Rollie Fingers from the Oakland A's; Texas, which got Bert Campaneris and Doyle Alexander. and Atlanta, which wound up with outfielder Gary Matthews. 
''The cost was higher than expected,·' the commissioner said, referring to the more than $20 million paid for 14 of the leading free agents. ''This is certain to bring about pressures for cost­cutting and increasing revenues." 
He said he did not expect a dramatic change in ticket prices although there certainly would be some hikes -a few having already occurred. He said the average ticket price in 1976 was $3.40. 
Kuhn said it may be several years before anyone can draw a definite conclusion over the impact of the re-entry draft but he added optimistically: "Over-all we have reason for exhilaration and we have reason for concern, but we have lived with concerns for 107 years. I remain bullish on baseball. I remain bullish on baseball's fu­ture." 
The commissioner stated that more people watched baseball dur­ing the past year-44,437,000 in the the young season. Flowers led the Irish in rebounds with 12 and was third in scoring with 14 points. 

Freshman Rich Branning direc­ted the Notre Dame attack with 18 points and five assists. Branning has added to the Irish tradition, being just another of the many cagers called upon to perform in their freshman year. 
Toby Knight was the second highest scorer for the cagers against Valpo last Saturday. The "super-sub" was called on to start in that game, replacing Dave Batton who was sidelined with the flu. Knight is averaging 14 p.p.g., second only to Duck Williams 
(16.7 p.p.g.), and is heading the squad in caroms with 28. 
Williams has logged the most playing time for the Irish and has hit 48 percent from the field to lead the Irish in total points with SO. Williams added ten points in the 
I

Notre Dame victory over Valparai­so. being the fourth person to break into double figures intlte contest. 
Notre Dame leads the series against Northwestern with a 59-21­1 advantage in the rivalry. The Irish will hope to increase their wins in the series to 60 while improving their season standing to 4-0 before travelling to Los Angeles Freshman Rich Branning will be trying to continue his excellent to battle the Bruins. play as the Irish meet Northwestern tonight in the ACC. 

Kentucky downs Indiana 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. AP 11. All-American center Kent Ben­-Guards Jay Shidler and Larry son, Indiana went nearly seven .Johnson scored 20 points apiece minutes without another field goal. Monday night and fifth ranked and errors hurt the Hoosiers Kentucky, bursting to a 21-point throughout the game. lirst half lead. rolled to a 66-51 
Even with Kentucky's big men,college victory over No. 4 Indiana. 

Rick Robey and Mike Phillips. both It was the first home loss for the 6-10. on the bench in foul trouble,defending NCAA champions in the Wildcats still dominated the 

three years and marked the first Indiana team of mostly freshmen time in four years they have lost and sophomores.
'''o games in a row. Kentucky is Kentucky never trailed in thenuw 3-0. while Indiana, coming off game and bolted from a 2-2 tie to aa 59-57 loss to Toledo, dropped to 36-15 advantage late in the first1-2. . 
period. Indiana could get no closerThe Hoosiers, hitting just 32 than 13 points several times in thepercent of their shots in the first second half.

half, were outplayed by the quick­er, more experienced Wildcats Benson led the Hoosiers with 21 from the outset. points, while Jack Givens added 18 
After an early basket by 6-foot-for the Wildcats. 

Former-Celtic Russell empathizes with Cowens 
NEW YORK AP -Bill Russell. who Jed the Boston Celtics to 11 championships in the late 1950's and 1960's, says he can empathize with Dave Cowens, the all-star center who packed his bags and left the National Basketball Association champions earlier this year. 
"What he did might have a very simple explanation -the man is tired of playing and he might not enjoy it anymore," said Russell. now coach and general manager of the Seattle Supersonics. 
"It happens," Russell added. "It didn't happen to me because I enjoyed the game too much. But I can't blame him. I did finally leave and go to California. Only it took me a lot longer.'' 
It took Russell IJ seasons before he left the Celtics, whom he served as both an all-pro center and coach. 
During that time he earned a reputation as an independent man, one who preferred to think things through for himself rather than go along with the crowd. 
"I am not nice to people just to be nice," he said in describing his 
singular  personality.  "I  don't  
smile  just  to  smile.  I  don't  
cooperate just to cooperate.  I owe  

nothing to anybody -except myself. 
I must be my own man." 
That no-obligation philosophy is reflected in Russell's attitude to­wards Cowen's departure from the Celtics. He feels it's important to note that since leaving the team on Nov. 10, Cowens has not been drawing his reported $280,000-a­him to leave if he was still getting paid." said Russell, whose Sonics were beaten by the New York Knicks 103-96 at Madison Square Garden Saturday night. "But he isn't. Does he owe something to the Celtics? Only if they pay him." 
Cowens did not give specific reasons for taking his unprecedent­ed leave of absence, but the 6-foot-9 star did say he had lost his enthusiasm for the game and felt he could no longer give 100 percent. All the outside pressures had drained off too much of the fire and determination which were his trademark. 

That, too, struck a familiar note to Russell, who refused to sign autographs because he felt that the ritual was too impersonal, but who now spends much time in the off-season speaking to youth groups. 
"Dave plays the game with great intensity, and I guess he felt there were too many things taking away from that intensity, draining it off," Russell said. "I can under­stand that feeling. I didn't leave because I liked playing too much. But I can't blame him for doing what he did." 
Raiders win 

OAKLAND AP -Ken Stabler destroyed the Cincinnati Bengals' defense -and probably their playoff hopes · with four touchdown passes 
Mac to go 
by Fred Herbst Sports Editor 
The Observer has learned that star center Bob MacAdoo of the Buffalo Braves will be traded today. An informed source revealed that the NBA 's leading scorer for the last two seasons will be sent to the New York Knicks some­time today. In return, the Braves will receive center John Gianelli and between $2.5 and $3 million. 
MacAdoo is playing under the last year of a $400,000 contract and will become a free agent at the end of the current season if he doesn't sign another contract. The Braves have reportedly offered the "Big Mac·· a five-vear $500,000 contract, but have not been able to come to terms with the superstar. 
The Seattle Supersonics were also reportedly interest­ed in obtaining MacAdoo, and offered the Braves 7-4 center Tom Burleson and $2 million in cash. But the financially plagued Buffalo team appar­ently has been forced to accept the Knick deal because of the amount of money involved. 
The Braves announced yes­terday that John Brown, form­er owner of the ABA Kentucky Colonels. has increased his ownership of the Brave fran­chise so that he is now a full partner with Paul Synder. This further lends to specula­tion that the team will be mo\ed to Louisville . Ky. in 
~he near future. 
Players return 
LOS ANGELES AP -Veteran sluggers George Scott and Rico Carty returned to their old teams Monday and the Milwaukee Brew­ers completed two separate major deals at baseball's winter meet­ings. 
The Brewers swapped Scott and outfielder Bernie Carbo in ex­change for first baseman Cecil Cooper after earlier sending catch­er Darrell Porter and pitcher Jim Colborn to Kansas City for infielder Jamie Quirk, outfielder Jim Wohl­ford and a player to be named later. 
Carty, claimed by Toronto from Cleveland in the expansion draft a month ago, returned to the Indians in a deal that sent catcher Rick 


commanding lead to win the first majors and minors -than ever year salary. which gave the Oakland Raiders a Cerone and utilityman John Low­game of their season. before. "It would have been wrong of 35-20 victory Monday night. enstein to the Blue Jays. 




