Merten, Nokes given Ombudsman award 
The winners of the Second Annual Ombudsman Award were chosen last night. The awards were presented to Diana Merten and D.C. Nokes. 


DIANA MERTEN The Ombudsman Award is inten­ded to recognize an individual whose efforts and contributions in non-academic endeavors exceed the norm. Such an individual concern should show over the development of a better community and realize the needs of all its members. 
Diana, a senior from Kenosha Wisconsin had been very active in the Notre Dame community. She was president of Breen-Phillips her sophomore year, coordinated the 
. COUL report to the Trustees, directed the NO Alcohol Confer­ence and was An Tostal coordinator of the Bookstore B-Ball tourna­
ment. 
D.C., a senior from Johnstown, Pa. also made great contributions to our campus. D.C. has worked with the Neighborhood Help Study Program, Volunteer Services at Healthwin Hospital and various nursing homes, was ad manager for Scholastic magazine, and serv­ed on the Admissions Office and the Business Activities Council. 
The two winners were chosen from 20 nominees by a panel of OAB members consisting of Dean 
W. Berry. Sr. Jean tenz and Fr. Thomas Blantz. , 
The winners will be presented their awards at a dinner to be held this semester. 
Other nominees ·for the award were Bob Quakenbush, Don Lon­garo, Tom Bursie~ Ellen Rocheleau Elton Johnson, Terry Keeney, Au­gie Grace, Tony Zappia, Joe Cor­pora, Mary Siegel, Joe Antonelli, Tom Paulius, Steve Restaino, Mark Grove, Ceyl Prinster, Betsy Fallon, Paul Reis, Mary St. Ville and James Hunner. 
Callahan, Mogab win SMC general elections 
by Sue Dallmann Staff Reporter 
General elections took place yesterday at St. Mary's with voting for class officers. hall officers, and student assembly representatives. 
The incumbent ticket of Cindy Callahan, president; Janie Schiltz, vice-president; Colette Morfoot, secretary; and Shannon Hanrahan, treasurer captured the senior class oftices with the slogan, "One good term deserves another.'' 
Stressing communication, partic­ipation, and unification, the ticket of Nancy Mogab, president; Pat Caserio, vice-president; Maureen Morris, secretary; and Shelagh Crook, treasurer won the junior class election. 
Elections for sophomore class treasurer. This group stresses their experience, new ideas, and awareness. 

Elections for officers of Le Mans Hall also resulted in a run-off. Introducing new ideas is the main thrust of the Probst platform. The ticket includes Rita Probst, presi­dent; Margie Babura, vice-presi­dent; Jennifer Asher, secretary; and Trudy Barcelo, treasurer. Their opposition, Michele Jawor­ski, president and Cathy Libert, vice-president, call attention to their experience. 
The new Holy Cross officers, Julie Pellettiere, president; Oph­elia Camina, vice-president; Joan Adams, secretary; and Gretchen Obringer, treasurer, assure voters that they are willing and able. 
Taking elections in McCandless were Susy Gauthier, president and 

Elections fro SMC's junior class offices was won by the ticket led by 
Nancy Mogab [Photo by Tony Chifari]. officers resulted in a run-off. The Gigi Georder, vice-president. ticket of Laura Beth Hart, presi-Their primary goal is to promote dent; Ann Marie Ritter, vice-presi-hall unity through a variety of dent; Staci Ritter, treasurer; and activities and services. Claire McCarthy, secretary em-With communication, feedback phasizes involvement, experience, and activities on her platform, enthusiam, and ideas. The ticket Elizabeth Cutter became president with incumbent Terry Touhy for of Regina with vice-presidents president, includes Lisa Turko, Francis Estrada and Paula Bright. vice-president; Kathleen King, Judy Eckelkamp, Mary Pat Wit-secretary; and Ellen Spalden, (continued on page 4) 

WASHINGTON AP -The Senate yesterday rejected an effort to amend the Constitution to bar abortions, voting 47 to 40 against putting the issue to a final vote. 
The action turned back a 'move by Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., and others opposed to legalized abor­tions to include a "right-to-life" provision in the Constitution. · Helms told senators that in voting against bringing up his proposal for formal consideration, they were actually voting to kill it. 
He said the vote "will be viewed 
. by millions of Americans as a vote against the protection of the life of the unborn." 
Helms • proposal would have amounted to a flat ban against all abortions. in effect overturning the landmark 1973 Supreme Court decision which invalidated state anti-abortion laws. 
Sen. Birch Bayh. 0-Ind., led the successful battle to table considera­tion of the measure, saying Helms was trying to by-pass a ·Senate subcommittee which rejected the measure last September. 
Bayh said under Helms' proposal all abortions would be banned including those deemed necessary to safeguard the life of the mother. 
The proposed amendment, en­dowing every human being with a right to life "from the moment of fertilization," would have required 

The incumbent ticket led by Cindy Callahan won SMC's election for senior class offices yesterday [Photo by Tony Chifaril. 
two-thirds a~proval in both houses and ratificaton by three-fourths of the 50 state legislatures. 
Claiming the number of abor­tions performed in this country had risen dramatically since the Sup­reme Court decision, Helms urged the Senate to approve his proposal and "put an end to this wholesale distruction of life." 
But Sen. Jacob Javits, R-N.Y.• argued such a constitutional a­mendment "will set us back in the Middle Ages...to the day of the butcher knife and the coat han­ger." 
Many backers of anti-abortion amendments have conceded chanc­es of approval are slim. But Helms claimed he offered his proposal so the full Senate could "deliberate the proposition before the eyes of the nation and go on record for or against the Supreme Court decision which created our present crisis." 
The high court ruled in January 1973 a state may not prevent a woman from having an abortion during the first six months of pregnancy. Although the case involved laws in Georgia and Texas, the effect of the decision was to invalidate similar laws in nearly every state. 
Helms brough his proposal direc­tly to the Senate floor through a parlimentary manuever which by­passed the Senate Judiciary Com­mittee, where a subcommittee last Septetober blocked his and a number of similar measures. Any senator could have blocked the move for a floor vote by registrer­ing an objection to the procedure, but none did. 
Notre Dame social life declining, less activity throughout campus 
by Mike VIllani Staff Reporter 

The condition of social life at Notre Dame has declined in the past year. According to an Observer survey of Notre Dame upperclassmen, of the reasons offered, most prominent for this decline were less permissiveness on the part of individual hall rectors, pressure to study more, and the 21 yr. old drinking law. 
Condition Seniors 
(Male, Female % 's) 
Have noticed a decline 82 (84, 75) in N.D. social life. 
Studied during more 86 (81' 100) than half of all weekends this year. 
Socialized on more than 66 (68, 50)half of all weekend evenings per week this year. 
Studied on more weekends (19, 50)
23 

this year than last year. 
Socialized on more 80 (81, 75) weekend evenings this year than last year. 
Have a boyfriend 60 (55, 100) or girlfriend at NO, SMC, or in South Bend. 
Drink alcohol socially. 91 (93, 75) 
Involved in extra­74 (71, 100) curricular activities. 
Overall, the 129 students surveyed feel a decrease in social activity within and between dorms. As compared to last year, those surveyed note a slight decrease in social activity with St. Mary's women along with less off-campus social events. Other less mentioned reasons for a decrease in social activity were the male to female ratio, parietals, and Jack of students' interest to socialize with one another. More figures on this subject are below. 
Junior Class Sophomore Oass 
(Male, Female % 's) (Male, Female o/o 's) 
76 (80, 66) 78 (80, 73) 
71 (69, 78) 79 (83, 67) 
87 (93, 67) 82 (78. 93) 
58 (65, 33) 66 (61, 80) 
66 (69, 56) 70 (71, 67) 
47 (45, 56) 45 (39, 60) 
95 (96, 89) 93 (95, 87) 
87 (90, 78) 82 (83, 80) 
2 

the observer Thursday, April 29, 1976 
,.---News Briefs--....... 
I=========International 
Kremlin calls for settlement 
MOSCOW--\The Kremlin declared yesterday the Mideast stalemate is fraught with the danger of a "new military explosion" and called for a "radical political settlement" of the situation involving the Palestinians. It accused Washington of using the U.S. presidential election campaign as an excuse to stall resumption of the Geneva peace talks and said America's real aim was to consolidate its grip on the Mideast. 
~==================National 
Humphrey a candidate? 
WASHINGTON Sen. Hubert Humphrey says he will announce today whether he will make at least a partial entry into the Democratic presidential sweepstakes. He was urged to enter the race at a meeting yesterday with political supporters. 1 
Strikers walk out 
CLEVELAND--The striking United Rubber Workers walked out of talks with the Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. yesterday in a dispute ove suspension or supplemental unemployment benefits by the industry, but both sides agreed to meet again this afternoon. 
On Campus Toda!J,____,. 
a.m.-­workshop, yearbook workshop, carroll hall J p.m.--tennis, university of illinois at n.d. 
, 4 p.m.--lecture, "the effect of jury and defendant attitudes and characteristics and the type of crime created on legal decisions," by donald shephard, n.d., sponsor­ed by the psychology department, room 119 haggar hall. 
I 
4 p.m. seminar, "trapped electron centers in posassium chloride," by john h. jischke, n.d., sponsored by radiation laboratory, conference room, radiation research building 
15 p.m.--evensong-vespers, log chapel. 
··;:30 p.m. lecture, "Why i became pro-life after my abortion," by laurie nelson, foundress of women exploited (compris­ed of women who had abortions and then turned pro-life), sponsored by nd-smc life, library aud. 
7:30p.m.-recital, faculty piano recital with dana spencer, sponsored by music dept., little theatre. 
8 p.m.--drama,"godspell," stepan center. 
8 p.m.--cameo recital, prof. sue h. seid, organ, marie parnell, v(ola, call 6211 fDr reservations, room 204, hoynes hall. 
~:15 p.m.-the album hour, wsnd 640 am. 
midnight--nocturne night flight, the best in progressive rock, jazz and blues, tonight's host: brian shanahan, wsnd 88.9 fm. 

r 
[ Institute for Advanced Study. He ...p!!!ll!l;;!!ll!l!ll!llllllillllllil==!!ll•llllll!,_•..~i:=ijil:lililip;;;;;,;;;;iiii;;-=;r: 
D. . Timothy O'Meara, profes­sor o athematics at Notre Dame, been appointed to the Howard 
Kenna Chair in Mathematics. The announcement was made by Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., r~,..,vost of the University. 
u'Meara, a specialist in algebra and algebraic number theory,is the author of Introduction to Quadratic Forms, a volume in a celebrated German mathematical series, and Lectures on Linear Groups, pub­lished by the American Mathemat­ical Society. He is a regular contributor to various J"ournals of mathematics. 
An Alfred P. Sloan fellow from 1960 to 1963, 0 'Meara came to Notre Dame in 1962 from Princeton University, where he served on the 
1 
faculty and as a member of the 
holds a doctorate from Princeton li and did his undergraduate work at the University of Cape Town in his native city in South Africa. 
In a letter to O'Meara, Father Burtchaell called the appointment
"the strongest possible endorse­
ment of the excellent scholarship 
you have brought to the depart-
m~~·~enna Chair was establish­in1973inhonorofRev. HowardJ. Kenna, C. S.C.,) former president 
of the University of Portland' who 

New television shows announced for summertime evening viewing 
NEW YORK (AP) --What's on tap for summer viewing at night? Not a heckuva lot that's new, excluding whatever happens at the political conventions the networks are covering and at ABC's summer Olympics show in Montreal. 
As in the past, CBS is providing most of the prime-time pickings this summer, having scheduled five new variety shows and a situation comedy. 
NBC has only one summer show, which stars John Davidson. It starts Monday May 24, and wi11 run only four weeks. But NBC says it may offer one or two more summer series in July and August. 
As of now, ABC says the only summer series it'll have on tap is "Viva Valdez," a sitcom about a 
·Mexican-American family. It's scheduled to start Monday May 31, and last the summer. ABC also says it'll offer double-feature movie nights this summer on dates to be announced later. 
CBS' six-show summer blast starts Saturday June 12 when Dinah Shore starts an eight-week run of comedy and music in the time period now occupied by the 
1 "Carol Burnett Show." After that, another singer, Diahann Carroll, will continue in the same time period for another four weeks. 
On Wednesday June 16, two--------------._.-.,_..._ half-hour variety shows will start a ~RMANDO IS NOW LOCATED NEAR CAMPUSI 
four-week run. The first show stars , -rl the Jackson Five, the second stars ,TO GIVE YOU THE CUl OR STYLE YOU WAN" Kelly Montieth, a young comedian • _L] d ' ._::, I'_ & 11 • ,~ /' c/' A 
0

hoping for what they call the big Ic..-T'Ztllall. 1. Qa7.Lh.7. . -/dt7. ~tyu: <:.:.'I 20(2 ' 
break. 

On Wednesday Aug. 25, singer
Frankie Avalon starts a half-hour 
CO poisoning for bartenders? 
WASHINGTON--Aside form the usual occupational hazards encoun­tered in ·a barrom, a new study reported by the Scientists Institute for Public Information reveals that bartenders may be suffering car­, monoxide poisoning form ciga­smoke. 11e study found that in a poorly venilated bar a worker may inhale the carbon monoxide equivalent of 36 cigarettes over an eight-hour shift--without ever lighting a cigar­ette. Bartenders who smoke on the job, said the report, may begin to suffer early symptons of carbon monoxide poisoning, such as se­vere headaches. 
Burtchae/1 announces r*rhe observ~r1 
Night Editor-Robert D. Bnnk 
O'Meara appointment E~~~~~~~:ll~ditor ­
Paul 
Copy Reader -Mike Villani.
Dame,including vice president for IBarb Langhenryacademic affairs and chairman of Day Editor -Mary Mungovan the department of Mathematics. 

Features-Tom O'NeilFather Kenna died in 1973, shortly Sports -Ray O'Brienafter retiring as provincial superior Typists -Judy Arenson, Sueof the Indiana Province of the Shellenbarger, Terri Harlan,Congregation of the Holy Cross. 

Maureen Flynn Retiring, Veteran Night Con­
Applications troller and his youthful assis­tant:-Bob Steinmetz and Fred Herbst
now available 

\!hotographer:-Tony Chifari I 
for J-board 

The Observer is published Monday Students wishing to serve on the through Friday and 'M!ekly during the 
SUilTill!r session, except during the
University Judicial Board can pick exam; and vacation periods. The up applications in the student Observer is published by the students 2 d fl L of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St.
government office, n oor a-Mary's College. Subscriptions may be Fortune, from 11:00 a.m.-5:00p.m. pvrdlased for $18 ($10 per semester) today. For more information con-fro-n The Observer, Box Q, Notre 
Dame, lndia'la 46556. Seo'Jnd Class
tact Phil Mancini or Bob Bodd· postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
Fo·rG .I 0' n a r a r s 0
&C'~\ " 6 I • · ..1 Parts & accessories for imported car<;. 
... .,
R.:-:., for all makes at lowest prices. 
,Distrobutor .*******272 -7187 ********* *"*For NO Students, Fac.ult~~ Staff-*•*10 percent!discount with I D & ~ * ! purchase of$ 10 or-more. * 
*************'* ~*********l 
'!erved in severalcapacitiesflt Notre ···~liililiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiijiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii••••• 
variety show, followed by a similar effort hosted by Bert Convy of the daytime "Tattletales" game show. 
The  shows  will  run  four  weeks,  
then withdraw.  
On  Sunday  Aug.  29,  country  

singer Johnny Cash, star of a country music series earlier on ABC a few years ago, will try again for four weeks. Like his old show, his new program will originate from Nashville, Tenn. 
CBS' summer sttcom, a five­week effort beginning Saturday Aug. 21, is "Ivan the Terrible." It stars Lou Jacobi as the head of a nine-member family living in a four-room apartment. In Moscow, no less. 
If you're interested in political viewing, the networks' coverage of the Democratic National Conven­tion will start the week of July 12 from Fun City. Come the week of Aug. 16, the networks will offer us a look at the Republic national convention in Kansas City, Mo. 
The summer Olympics? ABC, which got a tremendous boost in the ratings during its Jan. 5-Feb. 15 winter Olympics' coverage, is hoping to exceed those ratings with its efforts in Montreal from July 17 to Aug. 1. 
ABC says it'll serve up 761/2 hours of summer Olympics cover­age--33 more hours than during the winter games. And there'll be 17 
nights  of  prime-time  Olympic  
broadcasts,  the first  on  Saturday  
July 17.  

DUE TO EARLY STARTING DATE OF FALL '76 FOOTBALL SEASON.... 
IF YOUR CLUB WISHES A CONCESSION STAND DURING THE FALL, CALL NOW: STUDENT ACTIVITIES -7308 
0PEN SIJ... DAYS A WEEK  t  
ML-...'  .  'THRu FRIDAY 8  TO 5 ' 30  s.LITURrJAY e T0. 4  ' '  
t  PERSONALIZED SERVICE  t  
.\ARMAND() FEMIA  143.7 N  IRONWOOD DR  '  
'  PHONE 277-06~5  SOUTH BEND. INDIANA  '  
'FOR APPOINTMENT  1  f  

,;. ----------------._; 
"LADIES' NIGHT" 

TUESDAY & THURSDAY DANCE THIS WEEKEND TO SOUTH SHORE MICHIGAN'S TOP ROCK NIGHT CLUB!
•t/, 

81U IOAGY'I 
J......,1fl!f:'l 
ri-;;~~~;;~-;;:i 
1 baby? I 
I 
The Observer is having a staff barbecue I next Saturday afternoon, 2:30 to 6 pm. II That same evening, at 9 pm, .·I we will hold our annual staff party. 1 
Also, we are ordering staff T -Shirts. II T -Shirts will cost $2. 
I 
Use the clip-out below I to RSVP for THE BARBECUE or THE PARTY,I I
or to order T -Shirts. 
\ Just because we love ya. I 
~---------------' 
fi~~-;~~;;~~~:1
1 of course! 1 
I I
I 1
Name. 

I J.
I will come to the barbecue. 
I I will come to the evening party. I 
lI JI
I want a T -Shirt. Size. 
Now ya know who loves ya. 
~-·-------------' 
Thursday, April 29, 1976
Mock Convention the observer 
Ratified platform now available to delegates 
by Gregg B. Bangs Executive EdJtor 
Almost a year to the day after it was formed, the Notre Dame Mock Convention Committee will per­form its last duties today by making available the 1976 Notre Dame Student Platform to all student delegates. 
"This is the platform that was ratified at the Mock Convention," announced Vince Moschella, con­vention chairperson. "Delegates who want to get a copy should see the secretary at student govern­
ment  starting  at  l :00  this  after­ 
noon," he announced.  
Moschella  and  Rick  Littlefield,  

platform chairman, plan to send copies of the ratified platform to all the speakers who attended the convention. This includes Robert Strauss, Democratic National Chairman; Patrick Leahy, Senator from Vermont; Garry Hart, Senator from Colorado; John Brademas, Congressman from Indiana; and Donald Riegle, Congressman from Michigan and current candidate for one of that state's senate seats. Copies will also be sent to all presidential candidates and major officers of both parties. 
Moschella thought the ratified platform was representative of Notre Dame, not just the Demo­cratic Party. "You've got to remem her that we had both Democrats and Republicans at that conven­tion, so different viewpoints are going to appear on various issues," he pointed out. 
However, he also thought that the platform was a "solid" one. "This platform says more than most major party platforms. Most of those platforms are mired in rhetoric; this contains definite stands on issues and a lot of facts," he continued. 
Both Littlefield and Moschella thought the convention had taken stands on issues that were both interesting and varied. "Some of the decisions made were so differ­ent it was incredible," Littlefield commented. "On one hand, you had a pro-right to life passage passed that allowed abortion in cases of rape while you also had the 
O'Neill drama to be presented 
Beyond the Horizon, Eugene O'Neill's Pulitzer Prize drama, will be presented May 3 and 4 at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
The play involves two brothers, one a farmer and the other a wanderer, who both pursue fates that arc opposite from their nat­ures. The play ends with the farm bound to the land and the wanderer left with the realization that he still has a chance to fulfill his destiny. 
Jim Daly portrays the farmer and John Santos is cast as the wander­cr. William D. McGlinn is directing the play with scenography by Pat Gleason and costumes by Sheradi Collins. 
Beyond the Horizon is being produced in conjunction with the ND-SMC Theatre's "Our Second Scene." Tickets arc free and may be reserved by calling 284-4176. There is a limited amount of seating available. 
f-THE 
RESUME PLACE 
2 5 81/2 X l l 
IV\(; HOND 
Only $2.55 
insty-prints 


minority pro-busing plank adopt­ed," he added. 
The ratified platform, in some cases, is different from the original copy. Some of the many changes came in the fields of: 
Busing--The original platform 
plank  was  anti-busing,  but  the  
minority  pro-busing  plank  was  
voted  in  at  the  convention.  The  

plank reviews other methods of equalizing education for all and comes to the conclusion that busing is the "only realistic solution in the implementation of quality educa­tion." The plank also pledges to uphold "the decision of the Su­preme Court; which is the law of the land." 
Abortion--Littlefield pointed out that although the platform follows the "law of the land" on the busing issue, they come out against it on the abortion issue. The ratified plank takes an anti-abortion stand, which is contrary to the decision of the U.S. Supreme Court. Littlefield pointed out that these occurrences are commonplace in national plat­forms. 
Urban Assistance--This plank, not originally in the platform, was co-authored and introduced to the convention by New York delegate Jim Ryan. It called for the passing of an Omnibus Neighborhood Act which would serve as a model for several forms of assistance to the cities. This plank found its way to the National Platform Hearing in Rhode Island, where essentially the same plank was adopted by the national platform committee. 
Senior Citizens--After Rep. Rieg­le had called for the adoption of a senior citizens plank earlier in the evening, the convention added on a plank that called for the promotion of programs to feed the elderly and the raising of appropriations for the Older American Community Serv­ice Employment Program. 
Labor--Littlefield labeled the original platform as ''liberal along the Joe Hill lines and definitely pro-union" while the revised plat­form is anti-union and "almost taken exactly out of Goldwater's campaign of '64." 
Narcotic Drugs & Marijuana--the original plank called for the decrim­inalization of marijuana while the ratified version calls for the legal­ization of it. 
Export Produce--The original plank called for the usage of export produce as a bargaining weapon, "hoping to influence their foreign policies so as to reflect their dependence on our grain." The revised plank rejects this. 
Health Care--The original plank was added on to considerably and somewhat resembles liberal demo­cratic legislation in Congress, ac­cording to Moschella. 
National Economic Polley & Management & National Defense-­These two areas exemplify the varied nature of the planks. In the Economic Policy section, the con­vention calls for funds to be "diverted from the military and from those committees ... shown to be non-productive and wasteful of the taxpayers' money." Yet the 
defense measures call for a strong­er navy which requires more fund­ing. Although proposing the cut­ting down of government waste, the platform calls for the establish­ment of another civilian agency to combat the military establishment wasting finances. 
Speaking of another convention, Moschella said that anyone inter­ested in serving as a volunteer at the Democratic National Conven­tion in New York this summer should write to: Volunteer Coord­lnator, 2 Penn Plaza, Suite 1240, New York, New York, 10001. Anybody interested in working for the "Riegle for Senator Cam­paign" should call Moschella at 8407. 
Moschella said that he was "glad the year is over. I just want to thank everyone who participated and hope they learned something and enjoyed themselves. 
Moschella and Littlefield said the only problem the Mock Convention Committee had left was figuring out a way to send a copy of the platform to Mandello the Fighting Chicken, who lists no permanent address in Guam. 
Digger to speak at Grace tonight 
Digger Phelps, head coach of the Fighting Irish basketball team, will speak to the residents of Grace Hall tonight at 8:00 p.m. His address will cover his recent recruits, team schedule, next season's expecta­tions, and will be open to resident's questions. 
Digger will visit the other cam­pus halls throughout next semester to familiarize the student body with the team's curriculum. 

No longer can you store your trunks and other personal effects on campus, over the summer. So somehow, you've got to get it all home. How? 
The Great South Bend Airlift 
For your convenience, a special United Airlines truck will be parked right on campus to accept your shipments and whisk them to the airport. 
A student agent will be there to help you. 
If destination is not one of United's 113 cities, we'II make all arrangements with the other airlines. 
Where: In front of the Campus Questions? Phone Casey Nolan, 
Book Store 
When: Daily-Wed., May 5, through Wed., May 12. Hours-9 a.m.-noon 1 p.m.-4:30p.m. 6 p.m.-7:30p.m. 
No.I in the U.S. sky 
N.D. #8995, or United Airlines, 232-8241. 
/IJUniTED AIRLinES CARGO 

the observer Thursday, April 29, 1976
4 

Senate committee demands tighter controls on CIA, FBI 

WASHINGTON AP -The Senate Intelligence Committee, reporting 
U.S. intelligence agencies used illegal burglary, bugging and blackmail to spy on the private lives of Americans, yesterday called for tight controls on the CIA and FBI, particularly by Congress. 
In a 396-page report, the com­mittee detailed previously disclos­ed abuses such as CIA domestic spying, the FBI's cointelpropro­gram and electironic eavesdropp­ing by the National Security Agen­cy It made 96 recommendations to sharply curtail FBE activities and prohibit other agencies from vir­tually any involvement in domestic investigations. 
"All this occurred because intel­ligence agencies were ordered to break the law, felt they had a right to break the law, and even felt they had a duty ... to break the law," Sen. Walter mondale, D-Minn., 
St. Mary's holds general elections 
(continued from page 1) 
son, Mary McMahon and Cindy 
Schirack from LeMans won posi­
tions in the Student Assembly. 
According to election commis­sioner Mindy Montesi, 680 out of 1200 eligible people voted. This represents a turnout of almost 57 percent. Noting reasons for the large voter turnout, Montesi sug­gested, ''There were three tickets in most cases, and people knew that their votes would make a difference." She added, "People feel closer to class officers and hall officers as opposed to Student Government officers who often work behind the scenes." 
The run-offs for the sophomore 
class officers and LeMans Hall 
officaers will be held from 10 a.m. 
to 6 p.m. on Friday April 30 in the 
lobby of Le Mans. 
McMullin accepts 
N.Y. appointment 
Fr. Ernan McMullin, C.S.C., pro­
fessor and former chairman of 
philosophy at Notre Dame, has 
been appointed by the New York 
State Commissioner of Education 
to a committee which will evaluate 
all 12 doctoral programs in philos­
ophy in the state's public and 
private universities. 
The evaluation program was 
begun several years ago and focus­
es on two or three graduate fields 

each year. Serving on the commit--been used to dlsrQpt the lawful 
tee with Father McMullin Maurice-Mandelbaum from Johns Hopkins University and Richard from Princeton. . . . _ 
A graduate of Louvam Umverstty in Belgium, Father McMullin has been a Notre Dame faculty member since 1954. He is a specialist in the philosophy of science, and-he has held sever-al national and interna­tiona! positions related to his field. 

APPLICATIONS NOW BEING ACCEPTED FOR '76-'77 
SMC SOCIAL COMMISSION 
Positions Open Are: 

SECRETARY~TREASURER SPECIAL EVENTS DIRECTOR MOVIE CO-ORDINATOR PUBLICITY MANAGER 
HALL REPS. 
For More Information Call Mary at 4-44l9 or 4-5192 
APPLICATIONS MUST BE SUBMITTED TO LE MANS BY MIDNIGHT THURSDAY APRIL 29 
political ·actiVities -of: individual Americans and groups and to discredit them, .1:1sing dangerous and_ degrading tactics. whieh are abhorrent in a. free a)ld-decent society.'' As part-or . ' COINTELPRO, the FBI used paid informants and anonymous letters in· efforts to break up marriages, ·cost people their jobs, and incite 
open warf~!e among rival dissident said. Sen. Ktchard :Schwteker, R-Pa., added that "Congress bears a heavy responsibility for ignoring its constitutional oversight role." 
Two Republican members of the committee, Vice Chairman John Tower and Sen. Barry Goldwater, refused to sign the report, saying the recommendations went far beyond the abuses. Another Republican, Sen. Howard H. Bak­er, said, "The best thing about this is that it's over. We've finished it without doing undue damage to the agencies of the government.'' 
The recommendations included a new congressional panel to oversee intelligence activities, a virtual end to domestic spying by the CIA, NSA and military intelligence, a requirement for the FBI to obtain warrants for wiretaps or break-ins and the destruction of intelligence files obtained illegally. 
Findings 
The report, which contained few new revelations of government wrongdoing, made the following major findings: 
"Too many people have been spied upon by too many govern­ment agencies." FBI headquarters has over 500,000 domestic intel­ligence files; the CIA opened nearly a quarter million letters; NSA obtained millions of private telegrams; the Army Created intel­ligence files on an extimated 100,000 Americans, and the Intern­al Revenue Service created dos­siers on 11,000 individuals and groups on the basis oftheir political beliefs. 
-''The intelligence agencies have collected vast amounts of infor­mation about the intimate details of citizens' lives and about their participation in legal and peaceful political activities.'' 
-The women's liberation move­ment was infiltrated by FBI infor­mants. The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People was the subject of a 25-year investigation. Army intelligence opened files on Sen. Adlai E. Stevenson, D-Ill., and Rep. Abner Mikva, D-Ill., because of their participation in peaceful political meetings. 
-Army agents also searched for dissidents at a Halloween party for elementary school children and a conference of priests discussing birth control, while the FBI ordered investigations of every Black Stu­dent Union regardless of their. involvement in disorders; -_, 
-"Covert action programs have -:,enior officials frequently tgnor­years headed the FBI's intelligence groups. The bureau's program to 

ed the possible illegality or uncon­division, told the committee "neverdestroy Martin Luther King Jr. 
stitutionality of intelligence-gather­once did I hear anybody, including included efforts to discredit him 
with churches, universities and the ing programs and occassionally myself, raise the question: 'Is this carried out activities they knew to course of action which we have
press, to destroy his marriage and the sending of an anonymous note 
be illegal. agreed upon lawful, is it legal, is it William Sullivan, who for 10 (continued on page 5)which King interpreted as a sug­gestion that he commit suicide. 
-''The most sweeping domestic UJ ND·c~ ­
intelligence surveillan~e_programs I / ODSPELL 
have produced surprtsmgly few i useful results.'' Between 1960 and ' r-' 1974 the FBI conducted over I s·MCr--~~------------l 
500,000 investigations of persons: suspected of being subversives, "yet not a single individual or 
group has been prosecuted." The General Accounting Office estimat-T H E A T R E 
ed that of more than 17,000 FBI domestic intelligence investigat· 
1975-1976 

ions in 1974, "only 1.3 percenV Our 10th Joint Season j
resulted in prosecution and convic tioP" 
_,~~ 

Sunday is Fa~mily Day at The Boar's·Head! 
from Noon till10:00 p.m. on Sundays 
COMPLETE HAM or CHICKEN DINNER 
$3.95 

COMPLETE CHOPPED SIRLOIN or CHICKEN DINNER for Kids (Under 12) 
a•s 1J $1 7 5 
(Our regular menu
~\'--•ill. • Is available too!) 
~0 ~--­~ Cbe BORR.S-HBliD ~, f&stauttant 
® 52885 U.S. 31 North 
1 

South Bend 1 272-54 78 
April 23,24,29,30, May 1 at 8:oo P.M. Stepan Center (Notre Dame> 
'$2.50 General Admission $2.00 Students, Faculty & Staff For Reservations Call 284·4176 
(Show Nights Call 283-7559) 




I . . : 
.>#t7Hi"'6 

·~ :.~"!!.-2.:_ ------'---'~~---~ 



5

Bluestone recalls improvments in working conditions for laborors 


-CIA* NSA and military intcl­ligcm·e agencies he barred from 
Ir--------------------------------------,
I

domestic !.Ccurity activity except in ca~es involving their own employ­
ee~; 
I Announcing: THE MOST EXCITING MOUNTAINEER I 
-The FBI he required to obtain a judici:ll warrant before using wire­I AND BACKPACKER IN THE U.S. I tap~. hrl'ak-ins or mail openings in domc~tic investigations; I LOU WHITTAKER : 
-NSA be required to obtain a warrant hdore monitoring "any 
I When: MAY 2, 2:00 PM ~ 
l'nmmunil·atinn to, from or about an American" unless it involves for­eign !>py or terrorist activities; and I 100 CENTER GALLERIA, next to the I 
-All past intelligence collected 
I 

Black Cow in the Brewery. I
through illegal techniques should he locked up or destroyed. 
1 Lou Whittaker, Jan Sport's Promotion Director, is often I
Committee members stressed the report's most crucial recommenda­called "Ranier Lou"-and with good reason. This climber 1
I

tion was creation of a new congres­has scaled the 14,000 ft. Mt. Ranier more than one I sional panel to monitor intelligence I hundred times. agencies. "Without that. the great work of this committee will have 
I His recent achievements include being a co-leader of 1 
been lost," Mondalc said. 1
I ~the American K-2 expedition. He will present a slide 
Publication of the report. entitled II j lecture that will cover all aspects of the K-2 climb. ~ "Intelligence Aetivities and the Rights of Americans," came two • In our opinion, Lou Whittaker will be the first worl<i 
days after release of a similar I ~ ~amous c_limber of hi~ type ever to give such a pH:isent;.H1on I 
volume on foreign intelligence 
I • m the m1dwest. He IS an extremely humorous individual I
activities and all but ended an unpreccndentcd IS-month investi-­1 .: . . who will make you feel like you were involved. If you 1 
gation of U.S. spy agencies. /. ;_ have any interest in outdoor recreation, be sure and come. 1 The committee traced the growth I
I This event is free and co-sponsored with Jan-Sport. I
of domestic intelligence activities to 19J4 when President Rossevclt ordered FBI Director J. Edgar I ~~; I Hoover to investigate the Nazi I ~~ -~ I movement in the United States. 
I I 
Meeting planned I I 
for 18 drinking I 1 All students from l:1diana inter-I I ested in working with student lobbyists to lower the state drink-I I ing :;ge arc asked to attend a Sun. I I meeting <tl 7:00 p.m. in the LaFortune lobby. 1 I At the meeting. arrangements 1 will be discussed to contact legis-I 1()()CeJJter:, Mishawaka JN 
lators over the summer. Any 1 I questions should be directed to I 1 Jerry Klingcnbcrgcr or Bccz l{ey­
nolds. _______________________________________.. 

by Maureen O'Brien Staff Reporter 
Dr. Irving Bluestone, vice presi­dent of United Auto Workers (UA W) International and director of UA W General Motors depart­ment, called for continued im­provement in the quality of labor­ers' work situation yesterday. The lecture given yesterday afternoon in the Hayes-Healy auditorium, was the final presentation in the Design of Humanistic Work series sponsored by the business college and funded by a grant from the Sperry and Hutchinson Founda­tion. 
Over I00 people heard Bluestone give a history of improvements in the quality of work life. He 
cited examples of present-day programs which arc being innova­ted by General Motors to help improve the quality of work life. 
Bluestone said. "Many rights have been gained by industrial workers." Recalling past indust­rial practices such as discrimina­tion against women and poor wage and hour laws. he illustrated how work life eonditions have been 

Senate committee charges FBI, CIA 
(continued from page 4) t•thical or moral?"' An internal FBI memo discussing the hundreds of break-ins, or "black bag jobs," conducted by the bureau stated that the technique was"clcarly illegal." 
Blaming abuses on excessive exct·utive power and secrecy, the committee declared that "intel­ligence a.-tivities which undermine individual rights must end." 
Recommendations 
It recommended that: improved. 

Bluestone said it was time to really bring human dignity into industrial work life. He called for the establishment of '' decent jobs at decent pay." He commented, "Workers should experience the same freedom on the job which they have as citizens." 
Bluestone then pointed out that General Motors has been trying to improve the quality of work life and has established the National Com­mittee to Improve the Quality of Work Life for this reason. He then went on to cite examples of various factories and plants where the quality of work life has improved. 
"A particular auto assembly plant," according to Bluestone, "brought workers into the deci­sion-making process in an experi­mental program. Since then repair work within the factory has decrea­sed, workers have improved the quality of the job and now there is an amount of pride exhibited in their work." He attributed the 
Bluestone also cited a side-view mirror factory in Tennessee as another example of a plant where the quality of work life has improv­ed. Bluestone said the daily work load for this particular plant is now accomplished in less time. The workers hold classes now in their earned idl~ time. 
One student asked Bluestone if the improvement in the quality of work life really was a social science technique to serve management goals. 
Bluestone replied that "human engineering" techniques of the sixties were designed to serve management's goals, but that the program to improve the quality of work life was designed to do that already. 
Bluestone is a member of the National Trade Union Council for Human Rights, a lifetime member of the NAACP, President of Detroit's educational television ­channel 56 and a member of the Advisory Committee of the Nation-Irving Bluestone called for the improvement of the laborer's work situation yesterday in a lecture in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium [Photo by Tony Chifari]. 

higher quality of work to the 
al Quality of Work center improved quality of work life. Washington. D.C. 
L[•J,l•,$Atii~J w,~~~ fjiJ 
1 Mile North of No·, r.::: _'\ME on U.S. :.1 North (~ i !: · • 7~ 
I 
NOW
II CRe~!'L E~DS THURS 
ALFRED HITCHCOCK'S 

FAMILY PUn'
c3t{'iiiia'L ~ :r.. 
1\AI<t~ 1~.\l'l\ Bl<l(E llER\ [li!j] 7:00 9:00 
&J~M 
7:15-9:30 


FR_!_... ONE WEEK ONLY 
"I was swept away by-· the volcanic, slam­bang performances." 
"SWeprc-rv 
Away..." 
IRI 

A FILM BYLINA WERTMULLER 
FRI 7:00-9:15 SAT.-SUN. 2:15.4:45-7:15-9:40 
in---------------------------""'1 
BULLA SHED 
MASS 
AND DINNER 
5:15 

6 the observer Thursday, April 29, 1976 :•••·••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
In New York City : AAi.c~ an answer to yourRally protests prostitution ~ ~~~F-LOCK summer storage problem! 
A P I. . . Beame and others enctorseo a E' hth A • h' h d · -• STORAGE BIG OR SMALL
NEW)'~ORK d p 1-. o ~~~~c~anlks, state Senate bill that would prohibit tl~ "viendue,s hi~ k-enslty sex : 
persona 1t1es an p am o 10 s 1 't . s: th f t' s rtp. on t t m you se a • 
. d . . d T' 01 ermg 10r e purpose o pros 1-. . ___ , . •
1

rall1e m a crtmson-carpete 1mes tution or patronizin a prostitute. vtstble chan~e. We ve c osed up • store your:Square theater Wednesday to at-A first offender woufd receive up to some estab~t~hme.nts, not enou.~h • tack :-vh~t they called a plague of days in jail, with a second to make a vlst~le tmpact a~ y.et. : ~ stereos••..TV's •.•.•
90 prost1tut10n. offense carrying a mandatory 60_ The eff~rt mv?lves butldmg a • ''The tlesh peddle~s .on. our day sentence. record gamst d1rty-book stores, ~ 
bikes•..•.books street~ sap, the economic v1tahty of Although the bill has been p~ep shows an~ther .sleazy oper-·: l th• our c1ty, Mayor Abraham D. criticized by civil liberties groups, a!lo.ns as pu?hc ~m.sances and • •••••C 0 Ing••••• Dea~e told th~ n~arly 1,000 per-it was supported Wednesday by h1ttmg t?em.wlth bmldmg code a!ld : furniture 
son~ m t~e ~aJesttc Theatre for an anttpr_ostlt~tlon rally. Eager to put 
on a scruou.:o nt:w . face tor. th~ Uemocratlc. NatiOnal 
ConventiOn Ill July the City wants to r1'dthe streets of'hookers, p1mps· and "massage parlors."
City and state officials at the rally vowed yet another ofthe city'speriodic campaigns against hook­ers. The city's survival, they said, depends on its success. "The personal and private right 
of prostitutes to barter their own bodies for economic advantage 
~~~:ro; 0 ~e~~f~~~ ~~er~~~~s.to 
such as theaters, restaurants and retai~ shops," Beame said. "But that 1s exactly what happens wheP prostitutes go public." 
Holy Cross Hall 
receives award 
by Jay Tldmarsh Staff Reporter 
Last Monday, the Niles City Council presented Holy Cross Hall with a Certificate of Appreciation. The citation was given "in recog­nition for the quick thinking and courageousefforts" of those Holy Cross residents who helped to evacuate guests from a burning motor inn earlier this month. 
On April 2, a fire broke out at the Four Flags Motor Inn during a Holy Cross Formal. Although everyone attending the formal was quickly evacuated, guests on the second floor were unaware of the fire. Approximately twelve people at­tending the formal went upstairs and warned the guests. They also rescued two persons, who had to be carried out ofthe motor inn. 
The Certificate of Appreciation, thanking the Holy Cross residents for ''helping others while taking no consideration for their own safe­ty," was signed by Niles Mayor Robert Woodbridge. Accepting the citation for Holy cross Hall were Hall rector Fr. George Wiskirchen 
C. S.C., hall president John O'Lear and HPC chairman J.P. Russell. 

Manhattan Borough Presid~nt. Per­cy Sutton, Police CommiSSIOner Michael J. Codd and others. 
Th t d t t th . b k­
0

ere emons ra e elr ac ingofthebillweresuchstarsofthe 
theater and film as Joel Grey, Jane 
Alexander.. Collen D~whurst, Ben 
GOabzzaarha, Lmda Hopktns and Jerry r c · , . Afterwards, mayor.al assistant Sidney Baumgarten said the results 
43 000 

of a ~ ~· /ederal ~ra~~ f~r the
prosti!Utl~n c en-up s ou e ev­ld~?t m SIX ':"eeks. 
yet,xo~~~~~a~~:n t~~i~~s~~bl~no~ 
past a cluster of hookers along 
~ealt~ viOlatiOns. A!so, the admm-: , , lstr~t!On e~acted Ill January a • competftJUe rates zonmg ordmance. '?eant to close : l2.+k S+. W Hcxrrlson ~. down all but leg1t1mate massage II 259 8221 1753 E 12 h M' h · 
t bl' h t . • ca . . t IS • 
esa IS mensmayear. '•••••••••·•••••••••••••••••••••••••••·--------'­
d

Zen lecture to ay CONGRATULATIONS SENIORS' 

May Mass in GrottoBuddhist tem~Ie. . Griffin celebrates genuin: atmosphere he is bri~ging
the objects that are used m a 
Fr. Robert Griffin, University Chaplain, will be celebrating his 
annula May Mass in the Grotto this 
Sunday, May 2, at 5:00 p.m. 
Members of the Glee Club will be 
present to sing. In previous years 
Griffin has celebrated the mass on 
May 1 but he has decided to shift it 
to Sunday the second this year. All 
members of the University com­
munity are invited. 
Clothing requested by charity 
The St. Vincent DePaul society requests any unwanted but usable clothing. Students may deposit such clothing in barrels located at dorm loading areas from Sat., May 8 -Wed., May 12. 
Psych Society to hold elections 
The Notre Dame Psychology Society will hold its annual elec­tions today and tomorrow in room 115 of Hagger Hall for the positions of psychology society coordinator, secretary-treasurer, and undergra­duate faculty representative. Nom­inations must be placed in the Psychology Society mailbox (near library in Haggar Hall) by today. All Majors are eligible to nominate, run and vote. 
• • J 
bring a PillOW 

Rev. Richard Kongo Langlois, director of the Chicago Zen Budd­
hist Temple, will lecture on "Zen:
The Bridge Between East and West" today at 3:30 p.m. in the 
libr~~rlo~:g~~cture 
Langlois will lead Zen meditation. To provide a 
The lecture IS bemg presented by 
the Asian Studies Committee and the Department of International 
Studies. Admission is free and those who are staying for the meditation are to bring a pillow. 
c .. (: .d r i 
~ 1 
~-1 1 l ' (~-""'rLt'i,JJ 1 • ~1
~ IWJI;;;JI!",_. ·
t_', ,' f
1.: wA.UL.·Il.1 
~ 
' J c 
ir--~~j I~~
-
;..J ~ -f'\[ ~ ~~ 1: t-t-l-Qr :-=1-~
'I , . r:lJ I \ 
• 

FINE FOOD AND COCKTAILS 
YOUR HOSTS RUSS AND MARILYN COVEY 
616/699-7402 

R.R.3 EDWARDSBURG, MICH. 
EAGLE LAKE SOUTH SHORE DR. 'I • ' 
ENTERTAJNMENT NIGHTlY CAll NOW FOR 
GRADUATION PARTY RESERVATIONS 

rnictlael.!s 
tlair Stl.ILinQ
etc. 

FOR APPT. CALL: 272-7222 18381EDISON RD.ATSO.BENDAVE. 



The Pressure to Publish, the Trouble with Tenure ... 
l 


l 
The Dilemna of the New Professor 

The young PhD coming into a job as an assistant professor finds 

himself in a precarious situation. He will be subjected to the pressure to publish; time consum ing, almost mandatory committee 
work; his own lack of educational skills; a low salary; the increasing illiteracy of his students; and the 
tremendous pressure to perform extraordinarily in the classroom. As one incoming professor 
explains, "One is forced to pause 
and wonder whether all the sacrifice and suffering 1s worth it. The temptation is to say it is not." · seriously considered for tenure," she 
continued. "There is also a strong emphasis on a teacher's availability to students here, which does not always exist at other universities." 
To add to these pressure and educa­research of a professor will be returned to tional concerns, the New Professors musthis classroom. But often times, some confront a documented rise in theprofessors argue, the research topic is illiteracy of students in general. Moreunrelated to the classroom topic. Depart­time is demanded of the professor inment heads are consequently being grading expository papers in order toaccused of forcing faculty members to correct the faulty syntax and grammar ofbring national attention to their depart­his students. According to a recent articlement for its own sake. 
in the Reader's Digest and NewsweekOne member of the NO English entitled "Why Johnny Can't Write": IfDepartment, an associate professor, they (students) are in high school andcommented, "The University fails to planning to attend college, the chanL·es .• 
offer generous-enough sabbaticals which arc less than ever that they will be able towould enable professors to devote the write English at the minimal college level necessary time to quality research. 
when they get there••• The U.S. educa­Ironically, however, it demands scholarly tional system is spawning a generation ofresearch, yet refuses to offer the neces­semi-literates. Furthermore, to add to an sary time off needed to create qualitative already over-burdened list of demandsmaterial." 
upon the New Professor, the U.S. hasSonia Gernes, an assistant professor finally reached a negative populationrecently hired by the English depart­growth to partially compliment the postment, commented, "It seems that the World War II "baby boom". The Newgeneral understanding among assistant Professor thus has a concern which theprofessors everywhere is that one must Old Professor didn't: will he actually beeither publish or not get tenure. Person­needed 10 or 15 years from now?
ally, I have felt that pressure already, As illustrated, a great deal is deman­although no one has actually confronted ded of the in-coming professor, at the me directly." 
same time many of these professorsSchoenfeld, in his January 26 Chronicle argue that their salaries are far from whatarticle, stated, "It is far easier (and they should be. "In effect," one profes­perhaps more rewarding, given current sor commented, "the university demandspriorities) to develop a reputation for Cadillac performance for a small mone­quality research than for excellent teach­tary return." Even University Provosting." Gernes, however, explains that it is James Burtchaell, C.S.C., has recentlyfar more tempting for an incoming written (in Notre Dame Report # 13) thatprofessor to pursue the more immediate professorship salaries are in need ofrewards of the classroom. "The junior 
improvement.
faculty member finds himself extremely "The salary of the in-coming professor concerned about what's going on in the is obviously smaller than the salaries of
classroom,'' she explained. ''The 
his colleagues," one professor com­resulting temptation is to throw yourself mented. "In the last analysis, however, itentirely into teaching." 
is he who should get paid more,''The new professor is obliged to especially in view of the considerationestablish a delicate balance between the that his work-load is larger than anyoneamounts of time devoted to research and 
else's."

the classroom," Madonna Kolbenschlag. 
The young PhD coming into a job as anC.S.C., assistant professor of American assistant professor finds himself in aStudies explained. "There is a danger of precarious situation. He will be subjectedleaning too far in either direction ·­to the pressure to publish; time consum­too far into research or the ing, almost mandatory committee work;classroom. Either way, the professor his own lack of educational skills; a lowcould hurt him-or-herself when consid­salary; the increasing illiteracy of his
ered for tenure.'' 

students; isolation from other facultyKolbenschlag also echoed other con­members; and the tremendous pressurecerns which confront the New Professor, to perform extraordinarily in the class­specifically at Notre Dame. "There is a room. As an incoming professor explains, heavy emphasis on teacher evaluations "One is forced to pause and wonderwhich the New Professor must constantly whether all the sacrifice and suffering iswork to upgrade if he wishes to be worth it. The temptation is to say it is not." 
During the years of rapid expansion throullh the 60's, virtually anyone with a PhD In my field [mathematics), among others, could easily obtain academic employment and, with a few publications, settle comfortably into a lifetime teaching position. 
--Alan H. Schoenfeld 
[Chronicle of Higher Education] 
January 26, 1976 
The 1960's was a period of rapid growth for universities across the U.S. Students were flocking to college either to avoid the draft or simply to join the increasing numbers of their kind who were pursuing the fashionaole under­gntduatc degree. Consequently: teaching positions were a more accesstblc com­modity than they arc today. To have a PhD a·nd be refused a university teaching position meant, in the words of a ND associate professor, that "The person had to have some outstanding defect." 
Today, however, the number of avail­able teaching positions is small, and the number of applicants for a single opening at some universities has been estimated to be in the hundreds. The general outlook forgraduatestudens interested in becoming professors seems bleak, and the lot the "lucky" ones who get positions seems to be equally frustrating. 
The chances are that the New Professor ---the incoming junior faculty member--­has not assumed the responsibility of a class before he has begun as a university professor. Oftentimes, ~e may ha~e served as a "T.A." pcrvtous to hts assistant professorship, but few have had to be completely responsible for a class beforehand. Certification in education is not a requirement to be a university instructor, and so without the benefit of previous expertcncc, as well as the for­midable class nmcs developed by more cxtahlished professors, the New Profes­sor finds himself wholly unprepared for the classroom. 
According to Penelope Van Esterik, who is presently serving her third term as an assistant professor of Anthropology at Notre Dame, "The most difficult problem of the incoming professor is that original step into the classroom. Indeed a large number of these junior faculty members have had no previous training in educa­tion and must learn, so to speak, by the seat of their pants. They are forced to come into the classroom cold, and most of them can tell you how nervous it makes them." 
Compounding the frustrations of the New Professor is his responsibility to devote so much of his available time to departmental and other committees. 
by Thomas 0 'Neil 
According to Donald Sniegowski, director of undergraduate English studies at ND, "a frequent saying used among college professors goes to the effect that profes­sors spend half of their time teaching, half of their time publishing, and half of their time involved in committee work. The saying goes to exagerate the tremen­dous demands put on the time of all professors." 
The pressure to become involved in committee-work, however, is felt more intensely by the New Professor. Tenured professors can frequently shirk the responsibility by simply declining to participate in committee-work. The New Professor is in no situation to be able to do so. ''The extent of an assistant professor's committee-work is inevitably an important factor when he is considered for tenure," a ND associate professor commented. "The greatest frustration of all, however, is knowing that after you have worked long and hard on a particular proposal, that it is going to be ignored in the long run." 
The customary trial period for the New Professor at Notre Dame is six years, or, more specifically, the duration of two 3-year contracts. After the six-year period, the assistant professor will be considered for tenure. Considerations such as the time put into committee-work are used in the tenure decision, but more important than any of them, perhaps, is the extent of the individual professor's published works. The situation has often been described by teachers as one of to "publish or perish." 
According to Ira Grushow, chairman of the English department at Franklin and Marshall College: Scholarly distinction, which is, (or should be) a limited commodity, once determined a national reputation or the scope of one's career. Now the stimulation of It is required even to teach Freshman Composition. The consequence has been the erosion of serious scholarly standards in the rush to get it written rather than to get it right. As the competence of students declines, the scholarly pretensions of their teachers rise, begetting frustration in both. More than ever it is true today that the college teacher Is hired to do one thing and paid to do another. (Chronicle of Higher Education ·· April 19, 1976) 
The pressure to publish affects every professor being considered for tenure. The pressure is often so great that an assistant professor, according to the Chronicle, is "driven to short cuts, to spinning something out of his own entrails rather than to undertaking me­thodical research." The idealistic reason­ing for such research is the hope of department heads that the outside the observer Thursday, April 29, 1976 

Carter thinks Penn. shows he is unstoppable 

PHILADELPHIA AP -Jimmy Carter, twice a landslide winner in Pennsylvania, said yesterday it is unlikely he can be stopped short of the Democratic presidential nom­ination. But Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey was preparing to try. 
The Pennsylvania verdict, with Carter a big winner in both sides of a presidential primary that measur­ed popularity and also pick~d delegates, left the former Georgta Governor with no real challengers among the candidates he has faced in nine primaries. 
But Humphrey, in Washington, 
signaled a likely go-ahead for 
supporters who want to set up ~hat 
they call an exploratory commtttee 
to assess his prospects for pres­
idential nomination. 
That is no more than the cover 
for a campaign committee that will 
seek to keep Humphrey's prospects 
alive for active candidacy after the 
primary voting ends june 8. 
Humphrey, the Democrats' sen­
ior campaigner. certainly needs no 

I 
! 
I 
~­
Literary contest 

I I prizes awarded I 
1 
by Peter OBrien

l 
l 
Staff Reporter 
I 
This year's Literary Contests

I 
eceived 125 students entries with arious majors. This was more han previous years. According to he judges' reports, the quality of he entries was very high. 
The contests. sponsored by the ~otre Dame Department of Eng­ish. received entries from all class evels with a majority from the ;enior class. Some of the majors nclude; Government, Economics, =:ngineering and English. 
The Samuel Hazo Prize for >oetry, carrying a $50.00 purse, vas won by Gary Zebrun, Senior :nglish Major. Honorable Men­ion went to Melita Schaum. Soph­
•more English Major. 
The Richard Sullivan Award for :iction Writing. offering a prize of 50.00, was won by Kim Kitrell, enior. Government Major. Honor­hie mention was given to Michael Iewey, Junior English Major, Ro­ert Griffin. Senior English Major, :ichard Post. Junior English Major nd John Sears. Senior English

•. 
ilajor. David C. Redic. Senior Engineer­
•g Major. won the William Mitch­11 Memorial Award for Playwriting edic received $50.00. 
The John Frederick Prize for the est essay in Literary Criticism was warded for the first time this year. 
The prize of $30.00 and an 1scribed plaque went to Jeffrey !uller. Senior Classical Languages .1ajor. Joseph Fahy. Senior Eng­ish major. and Kim Kittrell, Senior jo\'ernmcnt Major received honor­hie mention. 
The Meehan Medal for Literary l!erit went to John B. Swarbrick, -enior Economics Major. 
Winner of the Academy of .merican Poets Prize of $100.00 ,·cnt to Melita SchaWlJ, Sophomore 
:nglish Major. Honorable mention :ent to grad students Gregory l!ar~hall and Nich Talarico along ·ith Gary Zebrun, Senior English 1ajor. 
The winners of the contests will e awarded their prizes this Sun­ay. 

Butch Cassidy and 1 the Sundance Kid 
Fri, Mon-Thurs 7:15 9 :30 Sat-Sun 2:15 4:30 7:15 9:30 
Dirty Mary, Crazy larry 
Fri, Mon-Thurs 7 :45 9:45 Sat-Sun 5 :45 7:45 9:45 
l?(!iler-tl()use t=lix 
255 -9575 

~ GOLF CENTER 
iff 
~ "NIGHT LIGHTEIJ'1 ~-9 HOLE • PAR 3 GOLF COURS! 
~Driving Range · 18 Hale Mln/alure
J'! I 
• 

~ Open Dawn Til 10:00 PM ~ LOCATED US 33 AT IRONWOOD 
~ Call I 288-0033 I ~ 'If Nt> Ans Call 282-2366 ~ _1,~1-' LINCOLN WAY EAST SO. lEND ~
..........,,".._. 

committee to assess the political situation for him. What he does need is a slowdown in the Carter primary drive, because if the front-runner keeps winning, it may be all over by mid-June. 
Humphrey said he wasn't part of any stop-Carter movement, but politicians always talk that way. In fact, if Carter isn't stopped, Hum­phrey can't get started. 
And at this point, the Minnesota senator is the stop-Carter move­ment. He noted two-thirds of the Democratic delegates have yet to be chosen, and that two new candidates have not been tested against Carter in the primaries. 
Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of 

California launched his national 
Lyons triumphs over LeMans 
In a game marked by the defensive play of both squads the women from LeMans-Augusta were defeated by Lyons 7-0 in the finals of Women's An Tostal Foot­ball. 
LeMans, who earned their entry by virtue of their 18-12 victory over Regina and their 22-0 shutout of McCandless, were held scoreless by the Notre Dame interhall cha­mpion Lyons,· as hundreds watched the action. 
The first half found LeMans on the verge of scoring several times, but they were constantly repelled by the quick Lyons defense. On the other hand, Lyons was unable to cross midfield until the last play of the half. 
The second half proved to be the exact opposite. Lyons was contin­ually in LeMans territory, while the women from St. Mary's were unable to break across the midfield stripe. Finally in the worrying minutes of the game, Lyons put it all together. 
A pass from Patty Kulik to Barb Lincer, along with a penalty two plays later gave Lyons a third down and three yards to go for a touchdown. 
THE VILLAGE 
SCENE 

APPAREL FOR THE 
GUYS & GALS OF THE ND-SMC COMMUNITY 

SCOTTSDALE 
MALL 

,....,n~· 

campaign yesterday in Maryland, where he will be running the May 18 primary Sen. Frank Church of Idaho faces his first primary test May in Nebraska. 
In the meantime, Carter is running Saturday in Texas, which will select 130 delegates, and next Tuesday in Indiana, Georgia, Ala­bama and the District of Columbia. They have 177 delegates among them. 
That run-everywhere strategy is serving Carter well, particularly off his surprising margins in Pennsyl­vania. That showing is the best advertising available to impress 
ATTENTION! ALL SOPHOMORES 
PlACE YOUR RING ORDER BEFORE YOU lEAVE 
FOR SUMMER VACATION· THIS Will ASSURE YOU 
OF HAVING IT WHEN YOU RETURN TO SCHOOl IN THE FAll· HOURS: 9:00A.M. TO 4:30P.M. MON.-FRI. IN THE OFFICE ON THE FIRST FLOOR 
HAMMESNOTREDAMEBOOKSTORE 
HANIMEX PRAKTICA w f2.0 LENS $121.00 WITH CASE 
Texas voters, and the Louisiana Democrats who will be selecting delegates in primary voting Satur­day. 
Furthermore, Carter's Pennsyl­vania win was the undoing of Sen. Henry Jackson of Washington, who has been his major rival. It left Rep. Morris Udall of Arizona about where he was -winless, in debt, and struggling to keep a campaign going. 
Jackson said he will change his campaign style, spend more time talking directly to voters on the issures, and continue his cam­paign. Udall said he, too, will keep 
SAWYER 570AF 
AUTO FOCUS
89.95 

running.  
Campaign  money  is  likely  to  
become  an  increasingly  serious  
problem  for  both  of  them.  It  

already has forced Jackson to cut back his campaign advertising, and Udall to take out loans. 
But nothing pulls political money like winning, and Carter's Pennsyl­vania victory should give him a lift in that department. 
With the Pennsylvania lineup not yet final, Carter's nationwide dele­gate strength stood at 332. It will take 1,505 delegates to win nomina­tion, and Carter said his goal is to have 1,000 when the primaries end. 
Jump on the carnival bandwagon! When it comes to value, we don't clown around at the Greatest Place on Worth. 
CAVAliER CAMERA 
SCOTTSDALE MALL 
...._______.. 



Thursday, April 29, 1976 the observer 
Training camp death results in courts-martial 
SAN DIEGO AP -The Marine Corps ordered courts-maria! yes­terday for three drill sergeants and a captain in the death of a 110-pound recruit who was beaten savagely during mock bayonet practice. 
('harges in the incident which has provoked the most intensive criticism of the Corps since six recruits drowned in a training march 20 years ag'> ranged up to negligent homicide and involuntary manslaughter. 
Pvt. Lynn McClure, 20, of Lufin, Tex., was knocked unconscious last Dec. 6 in his second day of training and died in the Houston, Tex., veterans hospital on March 13. An autopsy showed McClure had suf­fered massive skull and brain damage apparantly after being battered by"pugil sticks," stave­like wooden sticks with padded ends. 

McClure's mother has filed a $3.5 million wrongful death claim against the Marine Corps. A congressional investigation has been urged by Rep. Charles Wil­son, D-Tex. The commandant of the Marine Corps Recruit Depot said Tuesday that he expects one to be held. Wilson said McClure should never have been recruited because he had an arrest record and a history of mental retardation. 
Col. R. A. Seymour, who com­manded the special training unit, and a second captain agreed to accept administrative nonjudicial punishment for dereliction of dut­ies, a Marine spokesman said. 
The action was taken by Maj. 
Gen. Kenneth J. Houghton, com­manding general of the Marine Corps Recruit Depot. 
A lawyer for the McClure family has quoted several of the other Marines involved in the combat drill as saying they were forced to fight McClure, one at a time, even after he begged for mercy. None of these recruits were identified. 
Lawyer John Gyorkos played a tape for reporters earlier this month in which one of these Marines said the young Texan was forced to fight a succession of men, all larger than himself and "all I can hear are his screams asking for the Mercy of God. 
The Marines have made several changes in training methods since McClure's death. These changes included an end to Sunday work-
Vatican hit by monetary crisis, has estimated $6.4 million deficit 
VATICAN C'ITY AP-Inflation, the stock market crisis and shrink­ing offerings from the Christians put the Vatican's balance sheet deeply in the red in 1975, a Jubilee Holy Y car for the Roman Catholic C'hun:h. 
An official report on the "Activi­ties of the Holy See," which was made public yesterday, also said the number of Catholics continued to increase in 1975, climbing by 12 million to 565 million persons. But the number of priests dropped 4.707 from 344,342 to 339,635. 
The report disclosed no figures on the financial troubles of Pope Paul VI. The Vatican budget, like the exact worth of its vast holdings, is secret. According to printed 
Voldwein receives Cecilia Award 
Walter E. Volkwein, founder and 
president of a Pittsburgh music 
,mblishing company, has been 
selected to receive a 1976 St. 
Cecilia Award presented annually 
by the Notre Dame band. Robert 
O'Brien, director of the band, said 
Volkwein will receive a plaque and 
an honorary membership in the 
Notre Dame Band. 
Named after the patroness of music the St. Cecilia Award is presented to an outstanding contributor to the Catholic Band movement. 
Since the founding of his firm in 1930 Volkwein has established the Volkwein Scholarship with the Pitt­sburgh Piano Teachers Association and with the Piano Guild of Austin, Tex. In 1974 he announced the annual Volkwein Award for original band compositions. Volkwein has received severa. international awards, including honorary life membership in the Japanese Band­master's Association, and honorary membership in Phi Beta Mu Frat­ernity. He was elected president of the Guy Maier National Piano Teachers Association last year. 

reports, the Vatican deticit was estimated at about $6.4 million. 
In a rare comment last year, Vatican spokesman Federico Aless­andrini said the ministate's budget was less than that of the Italian Communist party. The Commun­ists' budget for 1975 was about $28mill ion. 
The official report said the deficit was of such a dimension that it made it necessary for the Vatican to cover "a little less than half of its 
total  through extraordinary  inter­ 
ventions or contributions.''  
It  did  not  elaborate.  The  

reference might be to sales of Vatican land or buildings or to some kind of emergency help from bishops of wealthy nations or wealthy religious orders. 
,­

It was believed unlikely here that the Vatican resorted to loans on the financial market. 
The report spoke of "a progres­sive reduction of the traditional offerings made to the Holy See." This referred to funds that have been flowing regularly into the Vatican coffers from bishops all over the world for more than a century, since the papacy lost the large territory that it had ruled in central Italy for a thousand year. 
As a sovereigl_l•. the Pope then collected taxes. Now the Vatican has no income from taxes, and its territory has been reduced to one-si xth of a square mile. 
~he report complained that stncter tax laws in Italy cut into profits from stocks the Vatican owns in Italian companies. Until eight years ago, the Vatican was exempt from paying Italian taxes. 
The report on finances was written by the prefecture for the economic affairs of the Holy See, 
NOW OPEN 
KELLEY'S SPORTLAND 

CHICAGO GREYHOUND BUS 
LAST BUS FRIDAY APRIL 30 LEAVES NOTRE DAME CIRCLE AT 4:45 
tkANKSFORYOURPATRONAGE 
----~--­

DURING THE YEAR HAVE AN ENJOYABLE SUMMER -TOM 8338 
outs and the banning of drills with pugil sticks, although a spokesman said the McClure incident did not spark the reforms. 
McClure entered the Marine Corps after passing a written examination in Austin, Texas. He 
·had failed a similar test earlier in his hometown. The Corps has said it checked with local authorities but was not advised that McClure had a police record. 
Seymour's discipline will not be made public to avoid violating his right to privacy, the spokesman said. 
After studying the investigation 
report, Houghton ordered a general -court-martial for Sgt. H. E. Afuilar, · S. Sgt. Harold L. Bronson and ' Capt. C. V. Taylor., and a special court-martial for' 'Sgt. H.C. Wall­raff. A special court-martial may hand down lesser penalties than a 
1 

general court-martial. There was no immediate indica­
. tion when the trials would take place or what form the administra­tive punishment, possibly fines, would take. 
The two officers and three enlist­ed men were suspended from training duties after the Marine investigation was begun. 
the Vatican equivalent of a treas­ury. It showed austerity policies Pope Paul tried to impose last year had largely failed. 
Pope Paul vetoed the original 1975 budget;md set up a commis­sion of experts to trim the proposed budget and to try to reduce the more than 3,000 Vatican personnel throu_gh attrition or transfers. 

Career oppty with major finance planning company attractively based Mid-NYC. Offers intensified training in sales leading to sales 
mana~emc~t. No prior experience necessary. 
~c will tr~.lll you. Offers salary plus incen­
~lves ~nd fmc company benefits for personal 
IIHCrvlew, send resume in confidence to: 
Circle Financial Services 
§ 3 55 Lexington Avenue ~ New York, N.Y. 10017 
q,~~oQ>~.q.~..,.....,.~.;o 
3 LOCATIONS TO SERVE YOU 
710 W. McKINLEY AVE. -MISHAWAKA (Town & Cour::~try Shopping Center) 1702 S. MICHIGAN -SOUTH BEND 1807 LINCOLNWAY EAST -SOUTH BEN 

------·"__,.,....,._ -~ 
--· -· -~----~----­


L 
Thursday, April 29, 19761

10 the observer Americans escape 
Refrigerator pick-up 
Refrigerators will be picked up at the time shown for your dormitory on the following schedule. Pick-up is free, but you must bring the refrigerator down to the pick-up point at the designated time unless you have made other arrangements at least ten days prior to the pick-up date shown with your campus agent. If you are not there, you will be assessed a $5.00 pick-up charge. 
You also must be sure that the unit is clean, defrosted and ~ry by pick-up time. If it is not you will receive a $5.00 cleaning charge. If any parts are missing or damaged on your refrigerator, you will be charged according to this rate schedule: 
broken evaporator door $3.00 smashed cabinet $30.00 defrost trays $3.00 wire shelves $3.00 cabinet door replacement $10.00 crisper door $3.00 butter door $3.00 glass shelf $3.00 

Arrangements have been made to return your $10.00 on the spot if everything is in order. If there are any charges to be levied, your check will have to be mailed to you. Any pick-up or cleaning charges will be deducted from your deposit. 
Thank you for your bl!siness and we hope to serve you again in 

the future. 
Hall 
Alumni-Dillon 
Fisher-Pangborn 
Lyons-Morrissey 
Howard-Badin 
Walsh-Sorin 
Holy Cross (NrD.) 
At S.M.C. 
LeMans-Holy Cross 

Truck #1 & 2 South Quad 
Time 

10:00-11:30 11:30-12:30 1:30-2:30 2:30-3:00 3:00-4:00 4:00-4:30 
4:30-5:30 
Truck #3 & 4 North Quad 
Hall 
Flanner-Grace B.P.-Farley Keenan-Stanford Cavanaugh-Zahm Carroll; St. Ed's; Lewis; Brownson 
At S.M.C. 
Regina N.-Regina S. McCandless 
Africans unhappy­want pledge proved 
KINSHASA, Zaire AP-Black Afri­cans challenged Secretary of State Henry Kissinger to make good on his pledge of opposition to white minority regimes yesterday while 
U.S. officials considered a protest to Moscow over Ghana's cancella­tion of a visit by Kissinger. 
Kissinger's promise of "unre­lenting opposition" to white rule in southern Africa "is no substitute for action," Tanzania's govern­ment newspaper said. Kissinger had visisted Tanzania before going on to Zambia where he made the promise Tuesday. 
"For America to be taken seriou­sly, therefore, Africa will have to see: and see quickly, concrete American action,'' the newspaper said. 
The Tanzanian comment agreed generally with skeptical reaction from black African leaders follow­ing Kissinger's speech. 
In South Africa the ceaction was harsher, and a leading opposition member of parliament told Kissin­ger to "go to hell" and stop trying to blackmail South Africa. 
"We South Africans opposed to government policy will bring about our own changes in South !Africa because America or Russia or anybody else tells us what to do," declared Vause Raw, who has fought the government on race issues for 28 years. 
In Kinshasa, where Kissinger arrived Tuesday from Zambia, a member of his staff said a formal protest to the Soviet government was contemplated · in connection with Ghana'scancellationof Kissin­ger's visit. 
"We know for a fact that the Soviets have been agitating with the Ghanaian government and with Ghanaian students over the visit,'' he said. 
The Services Commission 
Time 

10:00-11:30 11:30-12:30 1:30-2:30 2:30-3:30 3:30-4:00 
4:00-4:30 
4:30-5:00 Trucks will be: 
Behind Dillon Behind Pangborn Behind Lyons Behind Badin Behind Walsh At Holy Cross 
Behind LeMans 
Trucks will be: 
Between Towers 
Behind B.P. 
Behind Keenan 
Behind Zahm 
Behind St. Ed's 
and at Lewis 
In between N & S In front 

BEIRUT* Lebanon AP -In the anarchy of Lebanon's civil war the prisons have emptied, turning loose among the people 3,200 criminals including psycopathic kil­lers, terrorists, thieves and spies. 
Also benefiting form the nation­wide prison break were sixteen Americans serving time on drug charges. All but one of them has managed to get out of the country, a U.S. official said. 
For law-abiding Lebanese, al­ready battered by a year of fighting which has left 17,000 dead, the presence in their midst of the country's entire criminal popula­tion is a serious danger. 
The prisons opened after the army and police force disintegrated and private armies, Moslem and Christian, liberated inmates from 27 prisons on both sides. 
Some of the killers and gunmen emerging from jail joined the "law" as represented by the undisciplined militias who contol various sections of the country. 
An Armenian goldsmith who hd testified against Hagop Simonian, a well-known Armenian gangster, ahd helped send him to prison for life for the robbery murder of another gold merchant, saw Simon­ian recently in a cafe in Jounieh, a 
port in the Christian area. 

"I was terrified," he said. "He could kill me for revenge and get away with another murder. There is no law." 
Among the excapees in Ahmed Kaddour, wanted on 42 counts, eight of them involving murder. "A mechanical killer," police call­ed him. 
Another prisoner to benefit from the break was terrorist Aly Farouh, member of the Communist gang that occupied the Bank of America in Beirut in 1973 and killed John Crawford Maxwell, 52, or Long Beach, Calif. , Lebanon representa­tive for Douglas aircraft. 
Also released were two Palestin­ians, Mohammed Tirawi and Mo­hammed Fakhouri, accused of rap­ing a Canadian girl, Charlotte Borden, and killing her boyfriend, British United Nations official Keith Waugh. 

Earlier this year Najim Najim, an expelled Jordanian student, shot and killed the dean of lthe American University of Beirut, Robert Najemy of Worcester, 
Mass., and another professor. He is now free. 

With a dozen right-wing, left­
wing, Christian and Moslem pri­
vate armies heavily armed and 
under loose discipline, if any, 
Beirut is already a paradise for 
looting, armed robbery, and extor­
tion. 

"With the worst criminals, it's a nightmare," said a hotel manager who last week went through the humilating experience of politely serving drinks free to a man he knew as an escaped murderer, fearing if he did not the man would use force. 
Laundry coupons can be redeemed 
Unused Laundry/Dry Cleaning coupons issued during the period from August 30, 1975 to May 4, 1976 only, may be redeemed for cash during the week of May 3, to May 7. Redemptions are to be made at the Laundry Building (north of the Grotto) during the following times: 
9:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. 

1:00 p.m. to 3:00p.m. No refunds will be made after May 
7, 1976. 

,-..~~~~~~~~~..-..~~ ...... ~~~~~~ t f.B'jCI•l~li:II:]}iliii~IIIJ:JII:Il•l?J~! .
f Call for Appointrrent 
t 259-6391 AN UNTUNED ENGINE WASTES GAS! 
t 

PLUS PARTS,
t 
$19.95 
MOST CARS
t f 
MILEX ELECTRONIC TUNE-UP SAVES GAS! 
t RUSS & LIBERTY DRIVE INCLUDES:t ,40 Step Engine Analysist MISHAWAKA , Electronic Carburetor Adjust 
& ( 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF K-MART) 'Calibrate Timing 
' , 30 Step Tune-up & MON-SAT 8-5 P.M. ,Guarantee P~rts & Labor 6,000 ' miles-120 days
f Specialists in Brakes, A-C ev1d Electrical Service! 
~~~~~~~~..-..~~~~~~~~~~~ 
SHOP THE +: +:
:
100 ~ : 
CENTER i 
•
+: 
KEN'S DEN 
HAIR STYLING -­
~EN &VVC>~EN 
ACROSS FROM 1 00 CENTER (LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA) 
PHONE 255-6500 
APPOINTMENTS PREFERRED 
ou JUUI.IK·INiut 

STORAGE TROPICAL GENERAL & IOUTIQUE, GAMES I AMUSEMENTS. FESTIVE DICOIATIVE, NOVELTIES, DECORATIVE I'IUOWS, WOODENWARE INCENSE IURNEIIS, CANDLES I CANDLE HOLDERS, 
CESSOIIIES. IEDSP'READS I SOfT GOODS, VASJ• '1(\1 \ 1' b IILLS 
DICOIIATIVE METALWARE. FIGUIINIS I ~·.i 1110~ \'1 •,,IJOD ' 
NATURAL MATERIALS, DECOIATIVF ,... o\u ~ \\)'C\~ ..,fCOR, .WHITE P'ORCELAIN, DINNER\V • \'C\ '"e \O • q ...tRAMIC MUGS, 
SERVICE ITEMS, GLAS• • ..,,et £.""', •LIIINK SERVICE GLASS, MISC. 
GLASSWAIE, • Af\ te•• . ~v ~ SIRVICI, I'LACEMATS I NAPKINS 
TOP' A\VV•..,II. "'o'C\• ..cl'l UTILSILS, I'OTS I P'ANS, OUTDOOR ' 
.. IIOUSEkEEI'ING ~ ~~I'UES. ACCE$$011115. GAIDEN TOOLS 
Prisons empty in Beirut 
+: +: 


------1 +:CA TF.RING 
I'EISONAL IT"" • I IOXES •· .,.11 1 Wt"~Dfe'flef 1_. AC1 
~ +++ 
/ .· 
~ /7 ~\
({f>. ~\ ~~~, ,·~~· 
~~­
I 
I 

: SPEtiALL y
! TO THE (with $15.00 minimum purchase.) +: ND-SMC
! COMMUNITY PHONE: 259-0261 ~ 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••+••••• 
t ··············~~·~~.. 
••.. , 
t :J 
• a 
·~
tP 
t:3 
·~ 
·~ 
Budweiser® 
~eagles~~orill 
100 CENTER COMPLEX 
~~~~..-..~ 
ITH THIS COUPC>N f 
t  
$5.00  t t  
OFF  t t  
Regular Rice  t  
MILEX  t  
PRECISION  t  
I  ELECTRONIC  t  
TUNE-UP  t  
I  BRAKE  t  

TUNE-UP & 
NOW OFFERING 10 & 15% DISCOUNTS ON CASES OF WINE/liQUOR. 
HOURS: MON-SAT 
9:30 -MIDNIGHT 
FREE DELIVERY 
·-~ 
·~ 
any regular ·~ ;j OFF priced item
• 
with this ad.

•.:o 
BUSCH® MICH~LOB® A&Eagle 
r. /' ·,.·,.• ··"'·· 

Thursday, April 29, 1976 
the observer 1 ~ 

Nationwide rubber strike now in second week 
WANTED 
Need ride to West Louisiana after May 8. Call 8520. 
GIRLS-Good high salary, weekend, lulltime or summer jobs at Dick Drost's beautiful Naked City, Rose Lawn, Indiana 46372. (219) 987­2000. 
Wanted: ride to Toledo this week­end. Call Peggy, 6661. 
Babysitter wanted tor summer to care for 3 boys age 7 to 9. Good pay and close to N.D. Hours: 7 a.m.. 4 p.m., Mon.-Fri. If interested, call Kevin at 8593. 
---------------· 
Summer roommate needed. 3-bed­room completely furnished house. Call Terri 287-6638. 
N.D. students wanted tor tulltime jobs May 5-May 16. We need 6. Hours: 8:00-6:30 Mon.-Fri. Report to personnel. 
Need ride to sunny San Diego May 
10. Call T•m at 8526 or 7471. Will share expenses. 
FOR SALE 
Black and white T.V. One year old . $75 or best offer. Call 4-4895. 
For Sale: Girls 24-inch bike. 2-speed stop & go. Best offer. Call Mary 4537 or 1715. 
Duai1229Q changer. $180. Call Len 289-8990. Less than 1 yr. old . excellent condition. 
For Sale Fiat 128 4-door. '73, as new. Call Fernando after 6 p.m. 277-0188. 
For sale: two matching bedspreads . blue, green, yellow & white striped muslin. Machine washable. Excel­lent condition. Call Mo or Jean . 4-5486. 
For sale: brown & gold shag rug perfectly cut tor Regina single. Also good tor any other small room. Call 4-4226. 
1966 MGB-GT, tan, 4-speed, radio, wire wheels with knock-off. Good condition. Rare, collectors Item. $1200 or best offer. 
1971 V.W. bus. White over green. 64,000 mi. Just tuned with new muffler. 24 highway mpg. One owner. 287-7617. 
Mexican shirts . guys and girls. Call Pat 3444, SMC Debbie 4284. 
Cheap transportation home . 1970 Chevy Caprice wagon $230. Rick 234-1431. 
Furniture for sale! Furnished apt. at Turtle Creek -must sell furniture. You can store It at tieldhouse till next year. Call 277-0103. 
For Sale · Smith Corona Elec. typewriter. Auto return. Ex. Cond. 1 1-2 yrs. old. 5-yr. guarantee. Call 
264-4744. 
Must sell stereo. One month old, Pioneer SX-950, PL-112D, Omega 4-way speakers. Call 1623. 
'74 Toyota Corolla 4-door, radio, other options, low mileage. Best offer 281-07~. 
-

Year End Sale from Flanner Records 1 Purchase any order album tor our everyday low price of $4.55 and you can buy any stock album for only S4.05, or buy any stock album tor only S4.30. We have the new America, Seals and Crotts, Paul McCartney, Led Zeppelin, and Peter Frampton, and more! In stock!! Come to 807 Flanner or call 1488. 
N.Y. Met Club baggage truck to Long island· Loading May 8, 9, 10. Send $5.00 deposit to Doug Schu­macher, 1315 Elwood Ave., So. Bend 46628. Info. 288-0498. 
Boston Baggage truck: Pickup time 1-5 at both St. Mary's Parking Lot and the Bookstore Lot on Monday, May 10. For more into, call 8645. 
Play Better Tennis! Rackets re­strung to desired tensions, with nylon $7, gut $13. Picked up and delivered. Call B.J. 289-8948. 
Typing -professionally done thesis, dissertations, resumes, term papers. Barb 259-4894. 
Will do typing. Experienced. Term, papers, etc. Call 233-8512. 
NOTICES 

Discount quality quilts. All colors and designs. Ideal for gifts and-or sun-tanning. 149 Zahm, 8895. 
United Air Lines Air Freight Service will fly your belongings home, no matter where in the world home is. Reasonable rates, next day delivery. Send it now, pay later. Call 8995 for into. 
..........:-------------­
ND-SMC Council for the Retarded: The Awards Banquet has been changed to Fri. April 30, 6:30-9:30. All volunteers working at Logan Center this year are invited. Remin­der: no Sat. rec. this week. Any questions call Sue Maude 277.1182 or Jim Scott 1745. 
Washington D.C. Club baggage truck to Bethesda, Maryland . Deposit required before May 5. Call Rob 233-1797 (3:00p.m.. 6:00p.m. l or Monica 287-8506 (6:00p.m.. 9:00 p.m.) 
RUGBY SHIRTS IDENTICAL SHIRTS AS THE C.HEERLEADERS FOR $13.00. IDEAL FOR GIFTS. ALSO, FOOTBALL T-SH IRTS IN NAVY OR YELLOW FOR $3.50. CALL DAVID BOSSY 277-0948. 
Accurate, fast typing. Hours a:00 
a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Mrs. Donoho, 23-2-0746. 
STEREO COMPONENTS . 20-40 percent discount. All quality name brands. RMS Audio, 321 S. main. 288-1681. M-F, 12:00-6:00. 
Linda's Letters, dissertations, specialists, typing at student rates. 289-5193. 
Typing 35 cents a page. Call Dan, 272-5549. 
with Firestone Tire & Rubber Co., told Firestone the company broke its written agreement in suspend­ing SUB payments to workers laid <>ff when Firestone closed its New Castle, Ind. plant. 
He told Joseph V. Cairns, Fire­stone vice president and chief negotiator, there could be no settlement until the benefits were restored retroactively. 
With talks continuing to center on benefits, Miller said some improvements had been made in hospitalization but "there are still some union proposals and company counter-proposals on insurance and hospitalization not agreed to." 
He said on the major issues of wages and a cost of living adjust­ment, "the positions of the two sides remain the same" and prob­ably will be taken up today when Peter Bommarito, URW interna­tional president, rejoins the talks. 
Bommarito was in Geneva, Swit­zerland for two days to rally multinational support. from the six million-member International Fed­eration of Chemical and General Workers Unions. 
Miller said a few weeks before 
60,000 rubber workers-struck the 
Big Four tiremakers on Apr. 21, 
Firestone signed an agreement to 
extend SUB payments to workers 
who had been laid off at New Castle 
in 1973. 
He added the plant closing idled 
several hundred workers and that 
Classified Ads 
FOR RENT 

Such a deal! 2-bedroom house near campus. Available tor summer and-or tall. Reasonable. 234-6519. 
House tor rent next year. Very close to campus, low rent, and great landlords. 4 bedrooms. Houses also available tor rent this summer. Call Marty at 287-5113. 
Homes completely furnished rang. ing from 2 to 7 bedroom. Call Mrs. Humbarger, 234-0364. 
· 2 rooms $40 a month. 233-1329. 
Milliken Rentals 282-2089, 233­5833. House & apartments available for June or Sept. 
3-bedroom furnished apartment, one-half of a duplex, deposit, lease, for fall term. Call 255-3205. 
For Summer Rental super 4-bedroom fully furnished house near Jeff-Eddy. Washer, dryer, all utilities. $175. 234-1972. 
House tor summer, rated superior. Furnished, W & D. Very cheap. Call 1760. 
Summer sublet. 1-bedroom unfur­nished apt. Rent negotiable. 288­9646. 
6-bdr & 3-bdr. furnished houses. Contact Mr. Gatto 234-6688. 
6-bedroom house with fireplace for rent for next school year. Also a nice 4-bedroom house. 233-2613, 232­7263. 
Available immediately for married faculty, graduate or law couple. 2 bvdrms. apt. in excellent condition. just completely remodeled. Stove & refrig. provided. 5 closets . $160 a month, includes utilities. 287-7617. 
House for rent. 4-bed., 2 bath, 912 Howard St. $250 per month, utilities included. Ph. 287-3874. 
2 houses for rent for summer $150 mo. Call Mrs. Cooper, 272-3004. 
2-7 bedroom houses for 3-month summer rentals. All furnished. Call 288-6259 after 6 p.m. 
4-bedroom suburban house. 3 miles from N.D. Completely furnished, available for one year beginnng June 1st, 1976. Rent $350. Call 283-7215 or 272-6970 even_ings. 
Student housing. Off-campus. close to Notre Dame. House at 1225 E. Campeau St. 5 bedrooms, living room, kitchen, bath, fully furnished, washer & dryer, trash removal, security. Call after 4 p.m., Phone 232-7180. Winter or summer stu­dents. 
For rent: house for summer rent. Excellent condition. Call 1292. 
Near campus 1 large apt. 2 or 3 tum. utilities. Two kitchenettes 1 person, turn. utilities. Summer only. mor­nings or evenings. 272-6174. 
Furnished house near campus for 3 
·or 4 available for summer and fall, 272-617·4. Apt. call mornings or evenings. 
some of them presently were draw­ing SUB pay. He said he had been advised by Cairns that in addition to a nationwide suspension of SUB payments, they also were being cut off to those at the New Castle plant. 
Earlier Firestone, ,GoodyearTire & Rubber Co. and B.F. Goodrich Co. confirmed they had suspended SUB payments to rubber workers at still-active plants who were fur­loughed prior to the strike. About 1, 700 were affected by the suspen­sions which industry spokesmen agreed were a pressure tactic to help bring about a settlement. 
Industry spokesmen said tne SUB agreements were supplement­al to the main contracts and that the companies 1reserved the right to suspend or modify them. 
The SUB agreement guarante· furloughed work.ers 80 percent ·f their gross pay, with the companies making up the difference betwel·n that figure and state unemplo· ·­ment aid. 
The Big Four tiremakers account for 65 percent of the U.S. product­ion. 
A consumer boycott was directed against Firestone, and Firestone was made the target for an indus­trywide settlement in which the URW seeks an increase of $1.65 an hour in the first year plus an unlimitP.d cost-of-living adjust­ment. Rubber workers average $5.50 an hour in wages and $3.55 in benefits. They are demanding a 42 percent inc;·ease in that package. 
CLEVELAND AP -With a na­tionwide rubber strike now in its second week, a new issue over suspension of supplemental unem­ployment benefits (SUB) by the 

Thirty 
:O~t~~~~~~x~~ftiftft:W~fr~~Wa:f;~J~~~;ifu"degde f[~~r ~~~fei;l 
too much on their performance and not enough on their personalities. 
A prime case in point is Peter Crotty. It upsets me when people would say they hated Crotty solely because he was a lousy basketball player. Sure he wasn't very good, but he was also a helluva nice guy and didn't deserve the personal abuse he had to take. 
I can think of other examples, including some the other way--Every­one's their buddy because they're great on the field without paying any attention to how they act off it. 
Dan Devine didn't show me a whole lot in hts tirst year at Notre Dame. I'm still wondering why he was given the job so quickly seemingly without a check into how he was doing at Green Bay. 
I am told that the team is behind him now, that he is earning their respect and that Notre Dame will have a fine team In 1976. He deserves more time, for if alumni, students and fans had gotten their way, Woody Hayes would have been fired after going 4-3-2 his first year at Ohio State. Things got so bad for Woody his first year at OSU his team locked him out of the locker room at halftime. John McKay was 4-6 his first year at USC and Bear Bryant was 5-4-1 at Alabama in his first season. 
I'd give Devine a clear edge personality wise over two of those three right now. Give him some more time and judge him not only against Ara but the whole gamut of his peers. 
**** 

In my years at Notre Dame I have met many people and made many lifelong friends. If many of my youthful illusions have been shattered about ND I have also realized that there is much that is good here despite it. I am proud to say I went here and hope I always will be....Thirty. 
industry was raised in negotiations yesterday which could prolong the walkout. 
Jake Miller, head of the United Rubber Workers team negotiating 


LOST & FOUND 

Lost: wire rim glasses at An Tostal field on Saturday. Please call 4886. 
Lost-Pr. of wire rim glasses Sat. on An Tostal field. Call 5718. 
Found: ring, watch, jacket at Irish Wake. Call 272-6930. 
Lost: Key ring on Tuesday. Reward. Call Mary 4537 or 1715. 
Lost: Silver Timex watch Saturday between Stepan and Lewis. If found, call Marianne 8060. 
Lost: a Longines Jubilee watcvh with leather band, regarded as a keepsake, has engraved on the back "To John, from Aunt Helen, June 1974". Call1612, 138 Dillon, reward offered. 
Lost: Gold watch between Grotto and Grace Hall or student parking lot. Cal ann 4-4343. 
Lost: Gold initial ring, GVO, and key chain: red key, room 223. Greg, 8833. 
Lost: ladies silver watch in vicinity of Nickles. Great sentimental value. Please clal 5741 or 5368. 
Lost: at SMC-ND dance at Indiana Club last Friday . one blue sports coat and car keys. You have mine and I have yours. Call Bill 289-9106. 
PERSONALS 

PartyI invites every­one to his party Friday at 10 p.m. in Hall. Free beer and munch· 
ies! Come on down & meet 
Who placed the above ad? 
Students: help us help others. Don't discard usable clothing. Before leav· ing campus give us your unwanted clothing. Deposit clothes in barrels at your dorm loading area Saturday May 8th to Wednesday, May 12. 
Congrats to Norman "The Marathon Rapper" Dallessio. Dog gone it, five hours on the phone is something to be proud of. I just can't make up my mind whether to notify Gulnness or Dr. Joyce Brothers. Love always, 
The Yehkoffs 

Barbara, You talk a better game than you play. Chris 
Coach Steve Santanello, You're the greatest!! I Thanks, LeMans Football Team 
Mary Doherty, The pie In your eye is running. Cristo 
How the hell do I know? 
MARIA, MARIA, May your 22nd birthday find you LOWER than your 21st. Get down . Barry 
"Don't be .abnormal' Go to the Senior Class Formal!" 
Puppy-dog eyes loves you. 
"Ears Larue" Kelly· Happy 21st 
birthday! You're on your way to 
"the good life." 
MJR 

Bare-You're eating your pillow.... Again?! Your loving Hubcap 
Red Bud Music Festival -Sat. May 8th. \0 hrs. of bluegrass, R & B. and soft rock. 8 bands from Chicago, Kalamazoo, E. Lansing, So. Bend. Concessions and beer with I. D.'s. RBF on 200 acres 2 mi. N. of Buchanan, Mich. on R.B. Trail. Tickets $3.50 advance, $4.00 date. Available thru Boogie Records, Record Joint, Vegetable Buddies, Suspended Chord. 
ND-SMC Council for the retarded. Banquet Fri. 6:30-9:30. We need help. Tom Harbin 287-6673, Kathy McGlynn 288-4315. 
K. of C. spring picnic this Saturday. Sign-up lists and further details at the Council 
Need a place to stay In Chicago this June, July & August. Any informa­tion will help. Call Gregg at 1615. 
Nor rarrets for Bernie II 
Goodby, N.D. friends; My new address: Jerry Florent Warwick 38 Apts. 3744 Warwick Blvd., Apt. 5, Kansas City, Mo. 64115 
Jane you're such a whoosel 
Is your club Interested In a conces­sion stand during next fall's football season? Call Student Activities, 7308, now. 
Madame Therease . Why are your hands so tired? 
Attention, men of Notre Dame I CR, specially imported from Louisville, will be available In South Bend for only 3 more weeks! Absolutely no offers accepted after May 1 2 th. 
Dear Johnny Babe, 
Planning on any Incriminating 
personals? Too bad. I was just 
promoted to 'personal editor'. I 
censure every one of them. This Is 
the position of journalistic power to 
which I aspire. 
Who else? 

STOP FOGGING UP THE WINDOWS, NARII 
0 

-. ··.~tr·.. • :.
• 0 •. 
0 • • " 
0 • • •.
.. -. .

---'-.!--• ­

I 

... 
12 the observer Thursday, April 29, 1976 
Number-one QB to be picked soon 

by Ray O'Brien them which was absent last year. termination of spring practice. He The trio consists of Rick Slager, Joe plans to carry these plans out. A Montana and GaryForystek, quarterback will be selected about As the Blue-Gold game quickly a week after the Blue-Gold game.
Slager and Montana both return

approaches the Irish are about in This decision will be made by the
with a lot of playing time under
the same situation they were in at coaches after all the films and notes
their belt as they split the quarter­
this time last year when it came to have been studied.
backing duties this past season.
filling the quarterback position. The man responsible for devel­
Forystek also logged playing time
They have three highly qualified oping the quarterback talent is Ed
as quarterback for the prep squad
candidates. Chlebek. So far Chlebek is com-
this year and made occasional appearances with the varsity. All three are more than adequate at leading the team but only one player can call the shots on the field. 
The other three quarterbacks that played this spring are Joe Restic, Rusty Lisch and Jay Pala­zola. An early spring injury cancel­led Restic's attempt for the spot. The versatile freshman hurt his back in practice and couldn't throw the ball until this past week. Restic, a valuable all-round athlete, will go back to his punting duties and compete: for a defensive safety spot. Lisch and Palazola are both promising freshmen that figure to be back in the running next year. Lisch has displayed a very strong passing arm as both he and Palazola will again direct the prep squad. 
At the beginning of spring ball Coach Dan Devine announced that he would select his starting quar­terback for next season at the 
ND netters falter; beaten twice 
by Tom Powanda The disasterous Michigan road The second was close as it was tied trip began as Kalamazoo College at 6 games apiece before the Irish 
The Irish netters had a rough ripped Notre Dame. It started out dropped the tie-breaker and lost time of it on Monday and Tuesday to be a good match as ND's first the set 7-6. The third set proved to as they lost both of . their dual doubles team of Randy Stehlik and be much the same as the first with matches to drop their record to captain Mike O'Donnell beat Alex Notre Dame coming out on top 15-8. It was the third loss in four Donrepple and Mark Thompson. 6-4. days for Notre Dame and their third The first set went to the Irish with The victory was the only one for in their last five matches. one service break as they won 6-4. the Irish as they dropped the twoMitch Stoltz ~=;=;:;:::;·;::.-!;:~:;:;;.=::~;~:;::::::::::::::g::::~::====~==:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::: remaining doubles and all six 
singles slots. The final score was 8-1 in the favor of Kalamazoo College. 
The next match proved to be as disastrous as the first as the Fighting Irish again went down in 
~:::::;~:;::;::~:~:~:::::::~~&:!&"!!::::~:::::!~:~~-:*:*-;;~-::;;::;;~:$x!:!:!:<:::::::::::::::«:::;;:::~ BasebaII defeat, this time to the Spartans 
At this time next week, a lot of work and many years of experience will · from Michigan State. Again the have become a part of my past. Knowing that my baseball career is Irish started out well as they won coming to a close leaves me with mixed feelings. It's a game I've played the first two doubles matches but for 16-17 years, it's given me opportunities that I would otherwise never could only capture one of ~he have had, I've met many super people, and I spent four years at Notre remaining seven matches losmg Dame -thanks to baseball! overall 6-3. 
Obviously I must be sitting here reminiscing and feeling sad -maybe I In first doubles, Stehlik and am to a small extent, yet I am much more frustrated and possibly even O'Donnell again led the way for the bitter. Last spring when I was voted co-captain, along with Bobby Stratta, Irish as they beat Kevin McNulty it was a verv important time for me. and Larry Stark from State. Losing 
My first three seasons had been the best and the worst of my life. the first set 6-4, Stehlik and Under Jake Kline I felt our teams hadn't played up to their O'Donnell came back to win the potential.. .. but not I was going to be a captain, with a new coach and a second set by the same score. ND new team! I was very optimistic and extremely confident. proved too much for the Spartans 
Fall practice was very beneficial as we had an excellent turnout and as they took the third set easily 6-2. everyone worked extremely hard. This dedication and hard work In second doubles, Tony Bruno continued all winter and we began the season with high expectations. The and Brian Hainline came through beginningof the season seems long ago; I don't know why this team, a with a victory as they easily took team batting .300, a team with at least four pitchers who could pitch on Tom Gudelsky and Rick Zabor from any college team in the country, has done so poorly. Michigan State. Two sets were all 
Before I go on, I want to emphasize that I am not, and do not want to be they needed with the scores being quoted as, putting any blame on Coach TomKelly.He's super person and 6-4, 6-2. has done his very best and I am sure he is very disappointed. Coach Kelly The only victory for the Irish in is not a Billy Martin or a Sparky Anderson but he has done his best and no singles came in the number one one can ask for more. slot. Stehlike took his third match 
My frustration and bitterness -it's because of the attitudes at Notre in four attempts as he provided the Dame concerning baseball; it's because as we suffer through a poor only bright spot for the Irish road season Imust deal with people who rumor that baseball will be dropped to trip. The victim was again Gudel­the club sport level; it's because we must play with a roster of virtually all sky in identical sets 6-1, 6-1. non-scholarship players because we are limited to one scholarship per The next match for Notre Dame class; it's because we can't play a few of the better midwestern baseball is tomorrow afternoon as they face schools because of the travel expenses and scheduling regulations; it's Illinois at the Courtney Tennis because ND baseball is invited to play their spring trip games in Hawaii, Center behind the ACC. Starting California, or Florida against the top competition in the country but time for the match will be 3 p.m. because we usually would not be able to make a competitive showing This weekend the Irish host the versus teams with 20 full scholarship ballplayers. Central Collegiate tournament with 
I'd like to finish by making the point that the Notre Dame baseball such teams as Oral Roberts, South-program has some advantages -the facilities are good and the schedule is ern Illinois and Marquette in good -and the only way that the program will fully develop is if the men ·~t attendance. The matches start at 9 the top decide to dedicate some effort and money. The baseball budget ts a.m. on Friday and 8 a.m. on approximately $25,000 per year-by doubling that (add five scholarships Saturday. This tournament ends and a small amount of extra traveling expenses) Notre Dame could have a the Irish schedule who still have baseball program to be proud of. $50,000 per year for a total program is hopes of being invited to the NCAA less than half what football spends of scholarships alone -and hockey tournament. . 
doesn't make money nor win championships any more frequently than 
Captain's Corner 
R-ball meeting set 
baseball. 

Southern California isn't satisfied to be a "two-sport" university, why There will be an organizational should Notre Dame be? Granted Southern Cal has the weather but meeting for the Notre Dame Rae­Michigan and Miami of Ohio play in the same weather as N(\tre Dame and quetball Club this Friday at 7:30 in they aren't satisfied to be "two-sport" schools. the LaFortune Ballroom for all 
I'm sorry Mr. Krause, Col. Stephens and Fr. Joyce but I think it's a interested students. For further disgrace has ~nly one representative in the major leagues -and he was a information contact Bill Delaney at basketball player. 1164. 



are capable of running, passing 
Chlebek said, "Rick has playedand making the right decisions." 
excellently in the past two scrim­He emphasized the point that all 
mages and is running the team facets of the position were import­
well." Forystek and Montana are ant. Notre Dame relies on a hardly out of it yet as each has quarterback that is very versatile in 
shined in earlier scrimmages. running the offense. Chlebek ex­
Slager will start for the favored plained, "It is necessary to have a 
Blue squad in the spring finale. quarterback that can do everything 
Slager's running and passing looks on the field and especially make the much improved over his rookie right decisions. This way no team will be able to key on any one talent they have." The quarterbacks have been working especially hard on the option play lately. This was a facet of the offense that seemed to be lacking at times last year. Here, past playing time pays off, as players vying for the quarterback position have mastered the timing. Most fans complain about having more than one player relied on to fill the all-important quarterback position but Chlebek disagrees. ''It is a great advantage to have a talented backup ready to come in and replace the starter if he gets injured," he said. "If the starting quarterback has to leave the game the team will not suffer greatly.'' Nevertheless one man will be chosen for the job. At this point in time Rick Slager is at the top of the hill. Slager has looked very good during the past three weeks, Chlebek noted. Reflecting on the returning senior's performance 


*Observer 
Sports 

Thirty 
::::::::::,:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::;;;:;:;:o...:o:=:::s;:;::~ Parting Shots Some random thoughts of a graduating seutor: 
I'm still trying to figure out how we lost to Michigan two years ago, so don't ask me why we lost to them this year. 
After three years of covering the baseball team I've got to agree with the thoughts expressed by Mitch Stoltz elsewhere on these pages. The uaseball team needs a bigger budget and they ought to start by covering the holes in the press box and paying the P.A. announcer. 
**** 
Ifyou're a graduating senior like me, do you remember our first home football game? How good did we think Eric Renick was going to be? He gained over a hundred yards against Purdue and we yelled our fool heads off. We didn't know then that he couldn't cut, couldn't break tackles and couldn't hold onto the ball. And by his senior year when he finally had it all down, he broke his ankle. Some people think of Art Best when they talk of unused talent, but I think of Eric Penick. When he finally had his skills harnessed he was cut down by injury. Best wielded his own axe. 
**** 
I keep hearing that Digger Phelps is a phony but no one can ever explain what they mean by it. I can only go on how he has treated me, and he has been fair and honest. Adrian Dantley once told me that Digger is ''A very hard man to understand. I can't figure him out." I think that's a fair assessment. Anyone who says they understand Digger doesn't! 
**** 
I had to go 1,000 miles to meet Fr. Hesburgh. I met him on the street in New Orleans the night before the Sugar Bowl. I know I had been drinking so I'm only guessing when I say he had been. 
**** 
Sometimes I feel sorry for Adrian Dantley. He is such a good basketball player, so skilled at every phase of the game but he just isn't a crowd-pleaser. He may be a better pro than Austin Carr and he may score more points at Notre Dame if he comes back but hewon'tearn the same niche in the ND Pantheon of Stars that Carr holds. 
On the other hand I sometimes feel sorry for myself that I'm not three years older so I could have been here when the Holy Trinity (Carr, Theismann and Parseghian) all were. 
Some of my friends and I always got into big arguments over this next tcontinued on page 11) 


