Ford clarifies statements on Easte_rn European block 
By Howard Benedict Associated Press Writer 
LOS ANGELES (AP)-President Ford. seeking to quiet the political storm brewing over a statement lie made during his second debate with Jimmy Carter, said yesterday the United States will never con­cede the domination of Eastern European nations by the Soviet Union. 
America "firmly supports the aspirations for independence of the nations of Eastern Europe." Ford told a crowd of 15.000 at the University of Southern California. 
"The United States has never conceded and never will concede their domination by the Soviet Union." the President said. 
During his Wednesday night debate with Carter in San Fran­cisco, Ford said there was "no Soviet domination of Eastern Eur­ope and there never will be UQder a Ford administration." 
Speaking in answer to a ques­tion. Ford seemed to be categori­cally denying Soviet control over all of Eastern Europe, although he cited as examples Poland, Yugo­slavia and Romania, the three most independent of the Soviet Union. 
Ford spoke as USC following an inspection of a mockup of the controversial Bl bomber at the nearby Rockwell International plant where he criticized Carter's defense policies. saying Carter "wants to speak loudly and carry a fly swatter." Carter has turned upside down President Theodore Roosevelt's policy of "speak softly and carry a big stick." Ford said. 
Later. Ford arranged to join with Republican primary opponent Ronald Reagan at a GOP fund­raiser in Beverly Hills. 
A poll by The Associated Press showed Carter a paperthin winner over Ford in their second confron­tation. As with their first debate, in which a similar poll showed Ford a narrow winner, the margin was so slight that it could have resulted from normal statistical variances. 



The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. man<s Vol. XI, No. 29 Friday, October 8, 1976 
May leave downtown 
SB worried about Sear.s 
by Lindy Decio Staff Reporter 
A forthcoming decision by Sears. Roebuck and Company on whether to relocate their South Bend store in Mishawaka's new University Mall has generated considerable anxiety among officials interested in improving the downtown area. 


"There is a fifty-fifty chance that Sears will remain in the downtown


Faculty approves resolution 
area." noted Marc Brammer. who is working with Dr. George Wing. 

to suspend morn,·ng exams the of Do~ntownchairman the
Development Commtttee. 
by Maureen Flynn Campus Editor 

The Faculty Senate last night drafted and unanimously approved a resolution that the Academic Council suspend the current con­troversial examination-scheduling policy and conduct a study of faculty and student reaction to the policy. 
The regulations, announced by University Provost Fr. James T. Burtchaeillast April. prohibit even­ing departmcntals and reserve the 8TT10 time period for the schedul­ing of such tests. 
The resolution calls for the suspension of. that policy until a "comprehensive, factual study" can be made of "affected faculty and student reactions." 
Members of the Senate termed the current policy "confusing," citing uncertainty over whether it refers to departmentals only, all evening tests, or all evening tests and classes. They said the policy has not yet been officially cir­culated in written form. 
Some senators objected to the current scheduling regulations be· cause they create overlapping of examinations with classes or other examinations. 
The policy was originally insti­tuted. according to Burtchaell. to free students' evenings for studies and campus activities. 
One professor termed the new policy "a sdlution to a small problem that creates a lot of larger problems.'' 
Senate Chairman James P. Dan­ehy said he has almost completed a survey of department chairmen concerning the number of evening tests given by their departments last year and the number of students affected. 
Evaluations evaluated 

In other business, Senate Treas­urer. Senate Treasurer Bobby J. Farrow announced that Notre Dame faculty and students will be surveyed this week to determine their attitudes towards the Teacher Evaluation forms. 
Both students and faculty will be asked to rate the validity of the current questionnaire items and to assess their own response to the Evaluation form. 
Students will be asked if they feel the forms are really an effective method of evaluation and if they take the evaluation process as a serious responsibility. 
The Faculty survey will seek to determine whether or not profes: 

Chairman James Danehy con­ducted a survey concerning depart­mental tests. The Academic Council passed a resolution against 
8:00 a.m. exams. 
sors respona to tne cnttques ana how much or little they value student judgment on particular items. 
Farrow noted that casual ques­tioning of a number of students revealed that they "didn't have much confidence in the impact" of student evaluations. 
Several Senate members voiced skepticism regarding students' ability to validly judge items such as "knowledge of subject matter." 
The survey results will be dis­cussed at the November meeting of the Faculty Senate. 
Members of the Senate Execu­tive Committee reported the results of a Sept. 28 meeting with Univer­sity administrators on "topics of mutual concern." The meeting was dominated by discussion of grade inflation and course and teacher evaluations, Danehy said. The Catholic charaCter of Notre Dame will be the subject of a future meeting between Senate and ad­ministration officials. 
Budget input sought 

The Executive committee also met this past month with members of the University Budget Priorities 
·Committee, reported Prof. Irin Press. Press said the committee is in its first year of operations and is "inundated" with figures and material. The exact role of the Budget Priorities Committee in University budgeting is unclear as yet, but it was recommended that the Senate address future reports on financial matters to the Commit­tee's attention. 
(continued on page 2) Brammer emphasized the impor­tance of Sears remaining in the downtown area. and asserted that the store has a "civic responsibility to help the city." 
"Once Sears goes. there will be no more retailing in the city of South Bend. and within five years the South Bend area will be a total service center. just offices. The city will be dead when work lets out." he declared. 
Students at Notre Dame and St. Mary's will also be affected by the move. according to Brammer, since there is currently no public trans· portation to the University Mall. and there will be few retail stores remaining in South Bend. In addi­tion. the new mall is approximately one mile farther from campus than the downtown area. 
"If Sears remains. the future of the city will be bright. for the Downtown Development Commit­tee has plans for a super block in the enclosed downtown area." stated Brammer. This "super block" and the surrounding area would contain Sears. Penny's. Carson Pirie and Scott. plus about 140 smaller shops. a threatre. and restaurants. 
Bobby Wade. the General Man­ager of Seals in South Bend. noted however that the project is still in the planning stage. "This down· town mall is still ·just an idea. whereas the University Mall is already being built, and it is going to be a fine mall." 

Wade explained _that much time has been spent by Sears in re­searching both areas. and that "the decision won't be made for some time yet.,'' 
''Five things come into consid­eration: the cost of the land. the construction and finances. the amount of property allotted for the building and for parking. the public transportation provided. and the growth of the trading area." He remarked that transportation would be "no problem" if Sears makes the move. and added that the University Mall "will make it whether Sears moves there or not." Wade declined to state a personal preference for either loca­tion. 
~ campaign consisting of peti­tion drives. letter writing and telephone calls is underway at the moment to try and convince Sears to leave its store in downtown South Bend. according to Bramme. Wade commented. however. that he had received letters from citi­zens in Mishawaka that said they wanted the store to move to the University Mall. 
Brammer cited a survey taken of 

1.310 persons, of which 76.6 per­cent indicated that thev wanted to see the downtown developed as a major shopping center. and 89.2 percent agree that an economically healthy downtown will benefit everyone. 
·'Perhaps if Sears looked at some of these figures they would remain in South Bend's downtown area." Brammer declared. "Sears isn't looking at any studies except their own." 
·underage drinking charged 

SMC students arrested at Nickies 
by Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor 
Three St. Mary's sophomores 
were arrested at 11 :30 p.m. last 
Thursday night in Nickie's when 
two plainclothed policemen began 
checking ages of. the bar's occu· 
pants. An underage male who was 
a friend of one of the students was 
also arrested. · 
The !.tudents were charged with being "minors in a tavern" and with the consumption of alcoholic beverages. "There was no bouncer at the door so we just walked in." said one of the students. "We didn't have any 21 J.D.'s so when the policemen asked us our ages. we told them the truth." The 
·students were not asked for I.D.':; 
until they arrived at the South Bend 
city jail, she added. 
According to the student, they were fingerprinted and had "mug shots'· taken before they were informed that they had been ar­rested or were read their rights. "They just told us to come with 

them." she said. "We didn't think to ask why." Although the students arrived at the city jail shortly after 11:30 
p.m.. they were not allowed to call anyone until I a.m. Stevie Wernig, assistant dean of Student Affairs. "got the call about I :30 a.m." and went to the jail to post bail, which was $50 for each student. "Stevie was the first one to tell us what the charges were." explained the stu· dent. indicating the police had not informed them of the charges. 
Right now the students are in the process of talking to Notre Dame's legal aid and an outside lawyer. The court hearing has been set for October 26. "We don't know anything concrete yet." she said. 
According to the police, if the students are convicted, they will probably be fined less than $50. The arrest will go on record only in . Indiana. and will be "completely erased" when they turn 21. "We / get the bail money back no matter 
what." the student said. 
Wernig said St. Mary's will take no action against the students "because the\· haven't broken am of our policie~. I don't even kno~· what they'll plead ... Wernig re­marked. 

Popular bar Nickles wu the ~eene of an IU'l'est In which 3 St. Mary's students were found to be under­age. 
the observer 

~--News Briefs---.... 
t==========================International 
How to unpack a mummy 
PARIS,,Befoce figuring out how to stop decay in the 3,211-year-old mummy of Rames II, French scientists are trying to get it safely out of an oak packing crate unceremoniously marked 'top" and "bottom". Once the mummy is removed, he will be extensively examined by means of infrared, electron and X-ray photography and then hopefully preserved. 
England to curb inflation 
LONDON,,Britain's Labor government clamped a record-breaking squeeze on borrowing yesterday to curb inflation and bols~er overseas confidence in the pound sterling. But the measure--a h1ke in the Bank of England's minimum lending rate from 13 p:r cent to the record 15 per cent--is also expected to depr<1ss .Industry, increase unemployment and make mortgage pnces h1gher for Britain's 4.5 million home owner carrying mortgages. 
Seeking bomb in plane 
BRIDGETOWN* Barbados--Investigators sifted through debris from a downed Cuban jetliner yesterday seeking the cause of an explasion that ripped through the DC-before it plun!?ed .into the Carribbean Sea, killing all 78 persons 1!-board. The M1am1 Herald reported that a Spanish-~peaking man telephone~ the news~aper Wednesday night and claimed that a group called El Cond0r had placed the bomb aboard the Cuban Airlines plane. 


-On Campus Toda!J,---.,, 
12:15 p.m. _travelogue series, "bangladesh" by david burrell, in 
:.!:30 p.m. 5:15p.m. 7, 9 and 11 p.m.­
7:30p.m. 
8 p.m.­8 p.m.­
8:30p.m. ­
saturday ­
8 a.m.­

galvin <tuditorium, department  sponsored  by  the b10logy  
-the return of tom paulius to campus  
mass and dinner, at the bulla shed  
film,  "the  longest  yard"  in  the  engineering  

auditorium _ concert, "sounds of nashville" at the ace, sponsored 
by the st. joseph county sheriffs posse play, "heartbreak house"· in o'laughlin auditorium bible study, campus crusade for christ, in the grace 
hall penthouse quickie begins shuttle service. fifty cents one-way, 7S cents all night 
law school admission test in stepan center 
4 to 7 p.m.-happy hour at the library 
7, 9 and 11 p.m.­
8 p.m.­
8 p.m.­
sunday­
2:15 p.m. ­
7, 9 and 11 p.m. ­

film, "the candidate" in the eng. aud., sponsored by beta alpha psi 
concert, bruce springsteen in the ace 
play, "heartbreak house" in o'laughlin auditorium 
eucharistic hour, archbishop Fulton, speaker. bishop leo a. pursley, celebrant _of the benediction; st matthew's cathedral choir, in the ace, sponsored by the south bend deanery council of men 
film, "the candidate" in the eng. aud. 
L8:30 p.m. -concert, "elvis presley" at the ace 


Archbishop Sheen to speak Sunday· 
• by Jack Pizzolato Staff Reporter 

Archbishop Fulton J. Sheen, prominent author, educator and religious figure, will speak at the 3Jrd Annual Eucharistic Holy Hour. this Sunday, Oct. 11. in Notre Dame's Athletic and Convo­
•:'ltion Center. The event is sponsored by the local Deanery Council of Catholic Men, an as­sembly of organization and church leaders representing 23 parishes within the South Bend-Fort Wayne diocese. 
"This is not a mass," said George Scheuer, secretary of the Deanery Council. "It is a bene­diction, consisting of prayers, singing and exposition of the Blessed Sacrament.'' 
The Holy Hour will be preceded at 2:15 p.m. by a Sacred Concert performed by the St. Matthews Cathedral Choir under the direction 
of  Dr.  Edward  Kline,  associate  
professor  of  English  at  Notre  
Dame.  A  procession,  including  

members of the South Ben police and fire departments, local stu­dents and representatives of vilri­ous area church groups and soci­eties. will follow at 2:45 p.m. Sheen will deliver his homily shortly after the commencement of the ceremony at'3 p.m. 
Bishop Leo A. Pursley, D.D., head of the South Bend-Fort Wayne diocese, will perform the benediction. This will be Pursley's last public appearance before Bishop William McManus assumes the post next week. 
Representatives from Notre Dame and St. Mary's have been invited. "We hope students will attend too," said Scheuer. 
Sheen, 81, is author of 63 books. He has written numerous articles for such magazines as Common­wealth, America and New Scho­lasticism. Noted for his wit and good humor, he was a well-known TV and radio personality during the SO's and 60's. In 1965, he served on the Commission of the Missions for Vatican II and was appointed the Bishop of Rochester, N.Y. in 1966 by Pope Paul IV. Sheen is now retired. 
Stanford-Lewis project 


Spaghetti shop in the making 
by Jack C. Silhavy Staff Reporter 
On Friday nights, starting after fall break Lewis and Stanford halls may open· up a "spaghetti shop" as a kind of extension to food sales. 
·The trial run is tonight with 25 men and 25 women from the sponsoring halls as the "guinea pigs." 
·'Our idea is to get students who do nothing but study on the weekends out of their books and rooms for a while," said Anne Thompson, Lewis Hall President. 
"Both• uf our halls are freshmen and sophomores mostly and since they're younger, we think this would be a good chance to meet some people and really get to know the," commented Stanford Hall President, Keefe Montgomery. The establishment however, will not be limited to residents of these two dorms. 
The menu, at least in the beginning, would include spa­ghetti, garlic and butter bread, and salad. Table cloths are red and 
white and there will be candles on 

Assassinations prober to question Ford, Connally 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The chief investigator for a House probe into the assassinations of President John F. Kennedy and Dr. Martin Luther King indicated Thursday he intends to question President Ford, former Texas Gov. John Connally and Kennedy's widow, Jacqueline Onassis. 
Ut rord, ::,prague told reporters, ''I'm sure the investigation will include him." Of Connally and Mrs. Onassis, he said there is "no doubt that they will" be ques­tioned. 
Ford served as a member of the Warren Commission which con­cluded in 1964 that Lee Harvey Oswald was the sole assassin of the President. Connally was seriously wounded in the November 1963 tragedy. 
Rep. Thomas Downing, D-Va., chairman of the House Select Committee on Assassinations, cal­
. led Sprague a "hardnosed compe­tent prosecutor who has no precon­ceptions" about the rumors sur­rounding the Kennedy slaying and the April 1968 murder of King. 
Sprague is best known for suc­ce: ~fully prosecuting former United Mine Workers president 
W .A. "Tony" Boyle for the murder of union insurgent Joseph Yablon­ski. Sprague insisted he had no '"'reconceptions about either case. 
Conclusions that have been reached heretofore are not of any interest to me," he said. 
Sprague said his first step would be to arrange meetings with Atty. Gen. Edward Levi, FBI director 
Clarence Kelley and CIA director 
rlw Oh"•r\Pr" publi,h<·d Monda\ through f m!dy .md \\Pt>klv dunng tlw '>llllHllPr "'~'>Inn. t>x< Ppl durmg thP t•xam .tnd vac dtlon [){'rlod, The> Ohwrver" publ1shl'd by ~tudPnh of thP LlniV<'r'lt\ of NotrP Damp and Si Marv·, CoiiPg<' Stjb~LT1pt1ons mav hP purcha~Pd for $20 pPr yPJr ($10 rwr st'rnP,It>r) trom 1 hP Obwr vt>r, Box Q. NotrE' DamP, lnd1ana 4b15b SPcond da~s po'>tagt> pa1d; NotrP DamP, Indiana 46'i56 
1tw Ob~PrVPr 1s a mprnbt>r of tht> As~onatt>d f'rp~s All rt>product1on nghh arP rt''l'rved 

(*The Observerl 
Night Editor: Martha Fanning Ass't Night Editor: Joe Bauer Layout Staff: Rosemary Mills, Maureen Sajbel, Jane Knight, Brian Doyle. Thanks for com­ing. Editorial Layout: Jerry Hickey Features Layout: Gregg B. Bangs, Dominick Salemi . Sports Layout: Val Zurl1s, Tony Pace, Fred Herbst Typists: Nancy Cueroni, Don Roos, Mary McCormick, Val Zurblis Early Morning Typist: Terri Harlan Day Editor: Jean Powley Copy Reader: Barbara Breit­enstein, Tom Byrne Ad Layout: Pat Russell Photographer: Jim Hofman Artist: Brian Doyle Last week's Writer of the 
~eek: Katie Kerwin 
J 

George Bush. A recent Senate report documented that the CIA and FBI withheld information from the Warren Commission. 
Recent revelations of the late FBI director J. Edgar Hoover's efforts to destroy King as leader of the civil rights movement have cast doubt on the objectivity of that investigation as well. 
SMC elections deadlocked 
The results of yesterday's fresh­man class office elections at St. Mary's indicate a tie between the tickets headed by Debbie Roberts and Pia Trigiana. Members of Roberts' ticket include Julie Marouse, Clara Theisen and Kay Spakowski. Trigiani' s ticket con­sists of Betsy Baldy, Kathy Loftus and Mary Beth Horne. 
The deadlock will be resolved ina run-off election which will be held 
the tables in the ''old Italian restaurant" style. Thompson said a juke box was installed for some entertainment. 
"It's not quite as forced an atmosphere as you can get at parties. It's much more relaxed," noted Thompson. 
Holy Cross Hall had a restaurant in the hall basement eight years ago called "The Halfway House," but this was discontinued after 1970. 
Pat Maher, a senior from Lewis, is in charge of the organization. 
Lewis and Stanford halls fur­nished the capital to supply the needs for the restaurant and are also manning the operation. Women from Lewis will do the cooking and two men from Stanford will serve as maitre d's. 
"The girls said they can cook up a mean spaghetti dish." com­mented Montgomery, saying h.e was anxious to sample the cuisine. 
Reservations will be need each Friday to attend the meal. and will be taken on a first come, first serve basis. There will be two sittings every Friday night, one beginning at 6:30 and the other starting at 9:00p.m. 
"We want it to be a permanent thing every Friday night starting after October bread· , " said Thompson. "If it is a real success we may extend the menu and the :;pace." 
"It's been okayed, they (the administration) know about it. It 

will be real clean;  there will be  
health  standards,"  pledged  
Thompson.  


Faculty Senate votes support to AAUP statement 
on Monday. Votes ma.y be cast continued from paJ.!;e I) 
from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. In LeMans I~b?y and from 4:30 to 6 p.m. 'in the dmmg hall. 
329 . out of ove~ 500 ~reshmen voted m Thursday s electwn. Eiections were . also conducted for three unoccupied Student As­
sembly representative positions. The posts will be filled by Sue Branahan, freshman in Holy Cross, Kathy Costello, an off-campus freshman and junior Mary Jo Rogers, who also resides off-campus. 
The Senate voted unanimous approval on a proposal from Prof. James Cushing to ask the Univer­sity Board of Trustees to endorse the American Association of Uni­versity Professors (AAUP) State­ment on Academic Freedom and 
Tenure. 
The Student Affairs Committee report on grade inflation and a proposed study of academic excel­
lence at Notre Dame will be discussed at future Faculty Senate meetings. 

····························~!· 

: COLD BEER, PACKAGE UQUOR,: 
: 'fWM P .ARTY STORE :  
:oPEN: MON : SUNDAY  -SAT 9 am -11 ptn: 12 noon -11 pm ·•'.  

• 
• 


: WINE, GOURMET FOODS : : 3114 S. 11 ST. NILES, MICIDGAN • 
• 1 BLOCK NO OF IND.-MICH. STATE LINE ON U.S. 31:
• 
················~·············· 
................................~ 


:HAPPY HOUR -OCTOBER 9, 1976: 
October 9, 1976 All drinks 1f2 pricedI 
.•  :•  
Location  -The Library Bar  J  
•  Time­ 4pm to 7pm  ::  

Date-: Notes-
The Notre Dame Social Commission · Invites you to spruce tor Bruce 
ji 

Happy Hour at the Library 
................................. 
~----·---­








The 0 
server 
2nd Front Page
Vol. XI, No. 29 Friday, October 8, 1976 
In Wednesday's debate 
Carter goes international; woos 'Democrats Abroad' 
by Patrick Cole 
Political Writer 

In the past weeks, Democratic Presidential hopeful Jimmy Carter is seeking an international vote from American abroad and Asian­Americans at home. 
According to a story in The New York Times by William E. Farrell on Sept. 25, the Democratic Na­tional Committee "has gone inter­national in its quest for votes." 
In fact, one campaigner for Carter, Steven Cohen, a 35-year-old lawyer from Newton, Mass. , has been knocking on doors in se,·eral co_untries--Israel, Germany, Bel­gium, France, Italy and Britain-­encouraging Americans living a­
Director of the Eastern regional division of the Asian Pacific Amer­ican Unit is Esther Kee. She heads the effort at the Carter ·-Mondale headquaters in New York City which sorts out the Chinese. Jap­anese, and Filipino -Americans in neighborhoods to encourage them to vote. 
The Times said most middleclass Asian-Americans, who have voted, have traditionally backed Republi­cans though in New York they have usually voted Democratic. How­ever, Kee saw a switch among the young, at least, to the Democratic Party. 
The Asian Pacific American Unit is headed by Joji Kono!>hima. a 
broad to cast their ballots for professor of Japanese at New York Carter. Cohen is the campaign University. There are also coordi­
Profs say Ford blundered 
director of Democrats Abroad, a nators in San Francisco. Los An­small political group that began in geles. Chicago. Washington. Bos­by Barbara Breitenstein "Basically, what might have strengthen Carter. Anything can. 1964, The Times reports. ton. Wilmington. Del., BaltimoreSenior Staff Reporter 
been a fairly even encounter," All Carter has to do now is show With headquarters in London, and all of I·Jew J erscv. Tondreau explained, "decidedly himself to be knowledgeable in Democrats Abroad is responsible "We are the third ·largest minor­
Notre Dame and St. Mary's ended in Carter's favor due to the foreign affairs." for getting as many as possible of ity group." Keesaid. "We ''·liltedp1 ofessors of government agree . misstatement of Ford.'' "There was a great deal of sabre the 1.5 million American living to kno'' if Jimmv Carter ''a~President Ford made a "blunder" 
"Carter did far better than fighting going on," Arnold de­overseas to vote. Using compu­concerned. if he· ~·as interested.in the debate Wednesday night by Ford." Arnold said. "He was more scribed the debate, "But we didn't terized techniques, the organiza­and if he wa;, how would he shm'
!>tating the Eastern European coun­
impressive, but not at a s.tbstantive learn much about politics. It was tion sends out mailing to get to the his co~cern."
trif's are not under Soviet domina­level. In intelligent terms, they uninformative.'' potential voters. According to Kcc. Carter createdtion. 
were giving us slogans and incon­However, the main repercussion Several hundred Asian-Ameri­the Asian-American unit after the"Ford blew it," declared Carle­sistencies. They didn't say any-of the debate, according to Ster­cans have become involved in the Democratic National Convention. 
ton Sterling. assistant pro:cssor of thing." · ling, is that Ford's Eastern Euro­Carter (·ampaign since the Demo­The efforts of the New York unit government. ··'His statement was a lost debate pean blunder is "so dominant that
Ford the "without cratic National Convention this past increased the primary votes toblunder of such magnitude that it much assistance from Carter,'' it will overshadow everything July in New York City, according to 1,500 as compared to a mere three
could cost Ford the election." 
according to Tondreau. "It will else." The Times. votes in the last primary election.
"I couldn't believe he'd say that." remarked Michael Francis, professor of government. "I laughed for ten minutes." · 
This "mistake" will affect Ford's support with the American ethnic 
Ford reverses boycott policygroups, the professors agreed. "It's bound to offend Americans 
by G. David Wallace He said Ford will set the dateswho identify with East European Associated Press Writer beyond which the report will behomelands," Sterling said. 

made public.

"One of the large groups of WASHINGTON AP -President In a statement, distributed bynominative Democrats who were Ford, reversipg aC:ministration th1 hiteHouse, Ford said, "I haveundecided,'' Sterling continued,'' policy ordered the Commerce De­concluded that this public dis­were the ethnic Americans, partic­partment yesterday to begin dis­closure will strengthen existingularly the Polish.-If they were closing which U.S. jrJ are policy against the Arab boycott ofunsure of Carter before, now they asked by Arab countries to partici­Israel without jeopardizing our vitalmay go for him just because of pate in a boycott against Israel. interests in the Middle East."
Ford's statement." 
However, Commerce Secretary Democrats in Congress argued,"It will be hard for Ford to live it Elliot Richardson 5aid the order however, that the Ford admini­down." ·Louis Tondreau, chairman only ·aJ•phes to requests from Arab stration had "lobbied intensivelyand professor of government at St. 
countries m'ade Thucsday or later. against efforts to make the namesMary's, said "because he tried to If a company has already riled public." Sen. Abraham Ribicoff.
defend his statement.'' Sterling reports with the government saying D-Conn., accused Ford of "mis­agreed, stating Ford shold have it was participating or was asked to representation" of the adminstra­backed off after making such a take part in the bo"cott, this tion position.
"dubious statement." 
information will not be made A House subcommittee, mean­Prof. Perry Arnold took the public. while, began polling its membersmistake as a symptom of Ford's In the debate Werlnesday, Ford to consider whether to release onnervousness. "] think it was a had led many viewers to think that its own the names of companiesfunction of how upset he was. It past reports would be made public. that Arab countries· have asktd inwas .. an incredible political blun­"Because the Congress failed to the past to participate. Theder. 
act. I am going to announce subcommittee got the names on a''Another reaction to it,'' Arnold tomorrow that the _Department of confidential basis after threateningcontinued. "might be 'Is Ford Commerce will disclose those com­administration officials with con­really that stupid?' It's a matter of panies that have prai ·cipated in the tempt of Congress.
his .being unable to handle the Arab boycott. This is something Rep. John E. Moss, D-Calif.,
situation." 
that we can do. The Congress chairman of the House Government "I think the greatest effect this failed to do it, and we intend to do Operations subcommittee, began U.S. companies have long been threat when Morton provided thewill have," stated Arnold, "is that it." the poll, which is expected to take required to report requests to reports under written assuranceother nations will look and say our Commerce Department spokes­several days. -participate in international boy­that the subcommittee would keepPresident is stupid. It is really a man Horace S: Webb said he could Ford was criticized particularly cotts. Last Oct. 1 the administra­th~m confidential.
flub that will alienate the Eastern see that some people might have by authors of another anti-boycott tion added the requirement to Atty. Gen. Edward Levi hadEuropean-American voters." 
interpreted the remarks as indi­bill which would have prohibited report whether the request was rerommended that the reportsAnother error on Ford's part, cating past reports would be made U.S. companies from boycotting honored. But until Ford's state­must be kept confidential. Theaccording to the professor, was public. But he said it could be_read Israel and would have made the ment the administration had firmly former undersecretary of com­Ford's reaction to the question of to apply only to future reports. reports public. Currently such a resisted making public the names merce, James A. Baker III, current­the Arab boycott of goods to Israel. 
"It is a matter of semantics," he boycott is legal unless it is racially of companies filing the required ly Ford's campaign manager, saidFord first described his administra­said. discriminatory or violates anti-trust reports. in February that "disclosure of thetion's efforts, then stated that the Richardson told reporters, "We laws. Last November, aHouse Govern­names of the firms reportingnext day, the Commerce Depart­don't believe that it would be The National Association for ment Operations subcommittee compliance with boycott requestsment would issue a list of American appropriate to make the order Manufacturers, representing many voted to hold former Commerce would have exposed such firms tocompanies that have been partici­retroactive, since the reports that of the affected companies, said it Secretary Rogers C. B. Morton in economic retaliation by certainpating in the boycott. 
have been filed with us up tonow supported the congressional pro­contempt for refusing to provide domestic groups. even though com­"Ford was lying," Arnold noted. 
·are led with the understanding vision to make reports public and the subcommittee with the reports. pliance with such requests would"He was describing the position that they would be confidential." has no objection to Ford's proposal. The subcommittee dropped the not ~ave been in violation of anyand made statements which were law.
blatantly untrue. He was making 
policy off the top of his head. It was 
a drastic reversal of policy and it 
*******************• Carter sets CCE speech
was off the top of his head." · Arnold described such actions by by Gregg B. Bangs According to a Carter campaign


CAMPAIGN 
a President as "dangerous" and Executive Editor staff member, Carter will speal 
"not trustworthy. I think it is 
outside for roughly fifteen mmutes important to underline that," he Democratic Presidential nominee before shaking hands and going to said. Jimmy Carter will speak r>utside the Morris Inn.
76

Sterling agreed, calling it "a the main entrance of the Ceuter of The campaign office also an­ploy on the spur of the moment.'' Continuing Education following hi~ nounced that the tickets (l)r the 
"Ford was just trying to react by 12:15 pm address inside th..t , speech inside the CCE had been showing the administration is do­building. taken within an hour. To allow ing something by releasing the Original plans called for Carter more people to hear the talk, an names of the companies participat­to conclude his schedul~d speech, overflow room for closed circuit ing in the boycott,'' Tondreau said. which is sponsored by the Univer-television, available on a first­
Carter won the debate, the shy's Center for Civil Rights and come, first-serve basis, ~ill be set professors agreed, but more be­P.B. the Law School, then walk acro5s up. For the convenience of those 

cause of Ford's mistakes than on the road to the Morris Inn for a waiting for Carter outside, loud­his own performance. fund raising dinner. speakers will broadcast the speech.
******************** 

Debate increases Carter's lead, but margin remains paperthin 
by Dick Barnes tween the cadidates is concerned were polled. Associated Press Writer has been almost nil. Carter was a narrow winner of 
WASHINGTON AP -Democrat Here is what the AP national the second debate by virtue of Jimmy Carter picked up more new telephone poll of 1,071 person outpolling Ford among viewers voter support than President Ford Wednesday night and 1.065 res­who weren't firmly committed to as a result of their second debate. pondents two weeks ago found 'one candidate or the other. Butlhis victory in the contest was so about candidate preference in per­He won the support of 33.5 narrow that any significant ballot centage terms: before 1st Debate percent of this group compared to box payoff must await their thLd 45.3 Carter, 41.0 Ford; after 1st 24.6 percent who picked Ford. The encounter. Debate 46.9 Carter, 44.9 Ford; others either didn't know who won 
An Associated Press scientific before 2nd Debate 45.8 Carter, or thought neither won. 
national poll Wednesday night 43.0 Ford; after 2nd Debate 48.5 With each candidate suffering showed Carter the paperthin choice Carter, 44.8 Ford. only minor and matching defec­of voters both as the winner of the Ford has narrowed the gap by tions from his own supporters, the second debate and as the benefi­six-tenths of one percent. But I,071 respondents picked Carter as ciary of more new voter commit­since the number of voters not yet the winner 38.2 percent to 34.6 ment. committed or leaning has dropped percent. 
His showing reversed the results by more than half during this Ford had a 34.4 to 31.8 edge in of the first meeting two weeks ago. period, he's somewhat in the the first debate according to the Ford won that contest and gained position of a football team that previous panel of respondents. more support from it than did trails by a couple of seven point Those who thought Carter won Carter. But in both debates, th{. touchdowns, then uses up half the the foreign and defense policy margins were so close that they time remaining in the game to get a debate most often cited such could have resulted from normal mere three-point field goal. style-related reasons as "more statistical variance. In a survey with these numbers confidence," "more sincere," 
Although more than half the of scientifically selected respon­"better appearance." appointment of Stephen Spiro as curator of collections. 
viewers of each debate said the dents there is only one chance in 20 Those who thought Ford won Spiro, who assumed full-time duties in September, has served 
encounters would have either a that the results will differ by more most often cited reasons associated as acting curator at the Gallery in 1972. Since then; he has been 
great deal or some influence on than 2.9 percentage points from the with his incumbancy, such as "his completing doctoral work at the University fo North Carolina. 
their choice November 2, the net answers that would be obtained if experience" and "more knowl­The new curator is responsible for care and conservation of 
result insofar as a difference be-all registered voters in the country !dgeable." the 6,000 object permanent collection as well as research and exhibition planning. a specialist in 19th Century French art, he also will teach art history classes in the Art Department. 
Spiro's appointment comes at a time of growth for the Art 

Festival features ballet dancers
Gallery, whose collection has increased nearly 20 percent in the past two years. by Kate Smelser original Captain Hook in "Peter 
one can attend.'' Three-dollarStaff Reporter Pan." Of special interest to chil­tickets are available for all shows,dren, one segment of the show is to with a special student "rush" onebe performed by life-sized puppets. 
Research Council advises 
Michiana Festival '77 has been half hour before each curtain, if any 
Following Cyril Richard, Jerry
billed by its creators as "a major seats are remaining. Century
Jarret will star in "An Evening
performing arts festival for the Center's program director John
with Tevye," Oct. 30. Jarret has

on graduate fellowships 
whole family." Everitt, at 283-9711, can supply
appeared in New York with Carol

The Festival opens tomorrow additional information.
Channing in "Gentlemen Prefer
night with "Les Ballet Trockadero 

WASHINGTON DC-The National Graduate Fellowships is Dec. 1. do Monte Carlo,'' at the Morris Blondes," with Art Carney in Research Council has been called Civic auditorium at 7:30p.m.. "Prisoner of Second Avenue," and Doobie Brothersupon to advise the National Science Postdoctoral fellowships has starred in "Fiddler the
The ballet troupe consists of classi­on 
Foundation (NFS) in the selection Roof" from w~ich his South Bend head Homecoming
cally trained male dancers per­

of candidates for the Foundation's National Needs Postdoctoral Fel­performance wtll be taken. 
forming serious classical ballet. 

The Young Vic Company fromProgram of Graduate Fellowships lowships will be awarded for study A press conference this after­London will present "The Taming "Around the World in 80 Days,"and National Needs Postdoctoral or research on scientific problems noon at 2 p.m. on the construction of the Shrew," on Nov. 17. The will by the theme for this year'sFellowships. Panels of scientist~ related to national ne~ds in the 
site of Century Center will feature 

appointed by the Research Council mathematical, physical, medical, Pittsburgh Ballet is to present a Homecoming weekend, according
the performers from the ballet 

Friday evening and ~aturday mat­to Nancy Budds, Homecomingwill evaluate applications of all biological, engineering, and social troupe. The dancers will be in inee performance of "The Nut­chairwoman. The· weekend willcandidates. Final selection will be sciences. Persons interested in 
costume during the conference and 

cracker" Dec. 3 and 4, followed on begin Friday, Nov. 19 with amade by the Foundation, with interdisciplinary national-need-re­Century Center officials suggest Jan 10 and 11 by The Canadian semi-formal dance in Stepan Cen­awards to be announced in mid­lated studies are encouraged to that the mingling of these unor­Opera Company. The Opera will ter. On Nov. 20 after the MiamiMarch 1977. apply. Awards will not be made in thodox performers among the site's first present an English version of game, the Doobie Brothers will
clinical , education, or business . construction workers should pro­Graduate Fellowships fields, nor in history, social work or vide a more than usually enter­"La Boheme" and on the tollowing appear in concert at the ACC. 
. evening, the original "La Trav­Among other things planned, the public health. taining afternoon. 
iata," both complete with a 33-dining halls will cater to "inter­Initial NSF Graduate Fellowship Applications may be made by 
The Festival continues next 

national" tastes starting the Wed­awards are intended for students at piece orchestra. 
persons who will have earned by Thursday, Oct. 14 with a 7:30p.m. 
The season nesday before and
or near the beginning of their the beginning of their fellowship continues with The Homecoming,
presentation of Victor Herbert's 

Theatre of the-Deaf, Feb. 20; there will be a halt-decorationgraduate study. Those eligible to tenures a doctoral degree in one of "Naughty Marietta" featuring a Preservation Hall Jazz Band, contest.
apply are college seniors or first­the fields of science listed above or 22-piece orchestra and the British March 4; The Milwaukee Ballet, Volunteers are badly needed,year graduate students this fall. 
have had resear\:h training and · actor, Cyril Richard, who was the March 10 and 11; and on April 2, accoraing to Budds. Those who.
Subject to the availibility of experience equivalent to that rep­the musical magic show, "Presto!" would like to help may contactfunds , new fellowships awarded in resented by such a degree, and Ticket prices, according to 'publi­either Budds at 1333 or the Notrethe spring of 1977 will be for who will have held the doctorate for Volunteers city coordinator, Gina Anderson, Dame Social Commission in La­periods of three years, the second no more than five years as of Dec. 
"have been ranged so that every-Fortune at 6244.
and third years contingent on 6, 1976. All applicants must be 
needed in city

certification to the Foundation by citizens of the United States, and 
ENDS THURS-"JAWS" 7:00-9:25

the fellowship institution of the will be judged solely on the basis of The Notre Dame-St. Mary's Off­student's satisfactory progress to­ability. The deadline date for the ice of volunteer Services has anno­
Starts Friday <PGl ward an advanced degree in sci­submission of applications is Dec. unced that every Thursday it will 
A FILM OF PIONEER AMERICA! 

...___.._______...,___.,FROM AWARD W INN.ER 
ence. 6. publish a list of individual volunte­
These fellowships will be award­The basic annual stipend for er requests in an effort to recruit ed for study or work leading to Postdoctoral Fellows is $12,000 per student volunteers. The requests master's or doctoral degrees in the annum; a limited travel allowance come from the South Bend commu­mathematical, physical, medical, is also provided. In addition, the nity and cannot be handled by the biological, engineering, and social NSF will normally provide the already established volunteer org­sciences, and in the history and fellowship institution with an allow­anization. philosophy of science. Awards will ance on behalf of the fellow to cover Volunteer Services requests that not be made in clinical, education, tuition and fees and to assist the students who feel that they could or business fields, in history or institution in meeting the cost of fulfill a particular job or want to social work, for work leading to providing the fellow with space, IT\ake themselves available to do medical. dental , law, or public supplies, and equipment. No volunteer work in the future call health degrees, or for study in joint dependency allowance is available. Pete Wolf or Joan Griffin at the science-professional degree pro­Further information and applica­Office of Volunteer Services, 283­
grams. tion materials may be obtained 7308. Applicants must be citizens of from the Fellowship Office, Nation­There are openings for a Boy 
I 
the United States and will be al Research Council, 2101 Consttut­Scouts troop leader; a tutor for a judged solely on the basis of ion Ave. Washington, D.C. 20418. first grade girl in reading, a high ability. The annual stipend for school girl in chemistry, and a 44 Graduate Fellows will be $3,900 for year old man in high school algebra 
I 
a 12 month tenure with no depend­Young Democrats who is preparing for college; a Girl ency allowances. Scout troup leader or assistant 
Applicants will be required to elect officers leader and. tutors for s_tudents in take the Graduate Record Examin­math, readmg and phystcal educa­
ations designed to test aptitude and tion at St. Monica's School. I 
scientific achievement. The exam-The Notre Dame -St. Mary's inations, administered by the Edu-. fr'oung Democrats elected officers cational Testing Service, will be for the 1976-1977 school year given on Dec. 11, 1976 at designat-Wednesday. Elected by the mem­ed centers throughout the United f.ership were Paul Falduto for ~tates and in certain foreign count-res~d. ent, Ray Watson for vice" nes. The . deadline date for the res1dent, Kathy Coen for secre­submission of applications for NSF._ ary _and Jo~_Sloxine<: for ~reasurer. 
2915 Mishawaka Ave._. I'..;...;.....· __A_u._o_l_r_o_R_Iu_M~~-~-~..,..........,e,:..~-i:_~-~_:_~4-~,7_r-_·a_vs-~ 
FAST 

TYPEWRITER 
REPAIR 

-..._~iW· weekdays -7:00-9:oo
•

•ne tndSotMUtumn ~~~·5& ~~~s-~::~-~:~. 

HELD 
OVER! 



INGMAR DEP.GMAN'S 
Weekdays 

6:45-9:15"FACE TO FACE" Sat, & Sun 
1 :45-4:15 -----)lo'""9 -6:45-9:15 
LIV ULLMANN . [ii 
LlJ No




I . Heartbreak 1-House. 
G. B. Shaw's prophetic c:o_m_edy. ­
SMC

lj Od. 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 at 8:00 p.m.

T H E A T R E 

...'LAUGHLIN. All seats $2.50
. 0 
($2 Std-Fac-Staff) 


-----~~~-----­
Friday, October 8, 1976 the observer 
---~--------------------~~~-
Bulla Shed: More than Friday Mass 
by Martha Fanning Senior Staff Reporter 

Since it's opening in the spring of 1973, the Bull Shed, the Campus Ministry Activity Center, has served the Notre Dame community in a variety of ways. 
Fr. William Toohey, Director of Campus Ministry. named a few of the numerous groups which have been scheduled in the past to use the house. "In a typical week you could find scheduled: a Freshmen colloquium class, CILA Mass, Col­legiate Seminar, a hall staff gather­ing, Hotline, Hunger Coalition or a dorm section dinner," noted Toohey. 
Toohey explained that when Bulla Shed was first opened, certain hours were set aside each evening for students to visit. "A student volunteer acted as a host­hostess each evening from about 
7:00 to midnight," remarked Toohev. "Students would come overt~ talk, st~dy and have coffee, if it was available." 
This arrangement continued un­til the fall of 1973, when the demand grew to such an extent that the use of Bulla Shed was primarily by campus groups on a reservation basis. 
When Campus Ministry assum­ed responsibility for the Bulla Shed in the fall of 1972, extensive renovations were undertaken in­cluding the removal of a wall, installing shag carpet, a stove, sink and other kitchen appliances, and painting the rooms. The work was undertaken by the Campus Minis­try staff and student volunteers. 
-The facility was opened in Feb­ruary of 1973, for the Notre Dame "Ommunity. Fr. Toohey expressed the''id?q behind the center. "We 



Over $8 million in aid granted 
by Mary Ann Layden Staff Reporter 

To meet tuition costs. 61.5 percent of current Notre Dame undergraduates are receiving $8,335.208 in financial aid. 
The preliminary financial aid report released Friday disclosed that 4.249 of the 6,914 under­graduates are receiving· aid,' inclu­ding scholarships, federal or state aid..student loans and employment. 
Last year's final financial aid report showed 62.3 percent of the 6,846 enrollment receivied $8,325,331, reflecting slight in­crease in the amount of aid per student from $1,951 last year to $1,960 this fall. 
According to Mrs. June McCau­slin. Director of Financial Aid and Scholarships at Notre Dame, re­quests for assistance traditionally increase as the academic year progresses, and she expects these preliminary figures to expand dur­ing the year. She explained that last year's figures reflect a nine month period of financial assis­tance, while this year's amount so far covers only a one month period. 
Chess Club wins match 

The Notre Dame Chess Club defeated the South Bend club by a score of 3-2 Wednesday night, with wins by Padraig Obriain, Dan Casto and Tim Wiegand. 
On Wednesday, Oct. 13, Obriain will play a simultaneous exhibition in the basement of the South Bend Public Library at 7 p.m. Entrance fee is one dollar for challengers and prizes will be awarded for winners. 
.The Notre Dame club will play the Gambiteer's Chess Club of the Michigan City Prison on Nov. 13. Anyone interested in playing can contact John Newcomer at 272­1913 or Jim Stevens at 8610 in advance. 
feel it is indispensible to have an alternative to the crowded, noisy campus situation -especially for students, so that they might gather with others to share conversation, reflection, good times, prayer and discussion," commented Toohey. 
The house is divided into two small rooms, a living room and a kitchen on the upper level. The basement has also been partially renovated. General maintenance of the center is done by members of Campus Ministry. This past sum­mer Toohey, Sister Jane Pitz and a student volunteer re-painted the main room and kitchen. Toohey expressed a desire to put up a volleyball net next spring for use by students, in the yard. 
One of the regular events at Bulla Shed is the Friday Mass and dinner at 5:15p.m. 
Toohey stated that the mass and dinner was to "provide an oppor­tunity for students from multiple communities on campus to meet with people that one doesn't nor­mally meet." 
The g<.thedng attracts students from all classes, and faculty mem­bers also attend. Toohey comment­ed that there can be a reluctance for student5. to come for the first time. He remarked, "Many stu­dents find it a bit hard to just come, if they have never been to Bulla before; bvt there is always a warm welcome, and always new people coming. 
''Again and again people say what one senior said last year: 'I just wish I hadn't waited so long to drop around; my involvement here 
these paM tew weeKs nas been one of the best things to happen to me during my four yea1s at Notre Dame", Toohey explained. 
Student volunteers prepare the 
The number of students needing money and the amount of money received have both increased in the same proportions as compared to last year. This has been the trend in the past few years, according to McCauslin. 
Scholarships granted by the uni­versity from endowed funds and ('Urre~t contributions went to 954 ~tudents and totaled $1,153,165 this year, compared to 949 students and $1.104,786 last year. Scholar­ships broughi to the university by students from state or private funding declined slightly, but the ROTC awards increased from $1.128,705 to $1,186,230. 
Federal assistance programs are aiding 1,489 students this year, an increase over last year's 1,346, with the average award rising from $1,622 to $1,716. The number of students receiving loan assistance 

Toledo Law School visits 
The University of Toledo's Col­lege of Law will host an open house for undergraduate students who are considering enrolling in law school next fall (1977) and for college and university faculty mem­bers who serve as pre-law advisors. 
It is scheduled for Oct. 15. from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the l)niversity's Law Center. 
Open house activities on Oct. 15 will include panel discussions of law school admissions standards, costs, available financial aid, job placement efforts made by the college on behalf of its graduates, on-campus and area housing facili­ties and the substance and tech­nique of legal education. 
Tours of the Law Center, the opportunity to attend a first-year class, question and answer ses­sions with college faculty and administrators and a luncheon with 
law students currently enrolled 
also are scheduled. Further information is available from Ronald D. Raitt, assistant 
dean of the College of Law, The 

University of Toledo, telephone 
The (419)537-4131. 
White 

Bangladesh ~House 
Inn


Travelougue 
The Biology Travelogue will continue this afternoon at 12:15 in 

ROCK & ROLL WITH THE BEST BANDS IN THE 
room 278 of Galvin Life Science Center with a presentation by Dave MIDWEST NITELY (Except Tues) Burrell on Bangladesh. 
\ His talk is part of a weekly series THIS WEEK: BRUCE CARR BAND of slides describing the travels of students and· professors. Anyone 
The White House Inn 683-9842
interested in sharing their slides 

2839 No. 51th St; Niles
should contact Professor Ted 

Take U.S. 31 to Niles, North on,Sl, 3 miles: 
Crovello at 7496. 

....~.-~:!~44t~~­
The Bulla Shed, located across from the Towers, has over the years been used for a variet) of activities. (photo by Jim Hofman.) 
meal for the Friday dinner. Pres­ently, Sr. Jane Pitz is in charge of aiding volunteers in planning and organizing the meals. 
"We would like to find a talented. responsible person who might be able to take over the organization and planning of Fri­day dinners." remarked Toohey. 
Other activities have in the past been initiated at Bulla Shed. A Bulla Shed Celebrity Luncheon program was carried out for two years. 
Another former feature was init­iated by a student, Rick Anderson. On Sundays from 11 p.m. to 1 a.m. · Bulla Shed was opened for use of students that desired a peaceful, quiet place. 
The Bulla Shed can be reserved through the Campus Ministry of­fice, located in 103 Memorial 
from other sources dropped form 
1,035 over the 1975-1976 year to 
829 to date this fall. 
The largest amount of money for 
Notre Dame scholarships comes 
from the John and Mary Boyle 
Dailey Fund to which nine million 
dollars was donated by Florence · Dailey over ten years ago. 
Need is foremost in determining 
who will receive assistance, pro­
viding the . student shows top 
academic ability. Information 
demonstrating financial need is 
nhtained through the Parents Con­
fidential Statement. The office 
uses a rolling financial aid system, 
deciding on applications as they 
come in. 
Minorities are extended no pref­
erential treatment by the financial 
aid office. Minority students must 
meet the sam academic standards, 
according to McC~_,_._~~.~_r•. 

Take The 
INITIAL 
Step Towards A Personalized Wardrobe With 
·CASUAL CORNER'S 







FREE 
Monogramming 
This Month 0 All Regular Priced Items 
.:~........___""" wettaMa 
129 north michigan south bend . 234-1431' 
1ST2DRINKs 
1'12PRICE 
friday & saturday. october 8 & 9 HIGH_ POWERED BLUES 



OTIS USH 
....-----------------------------. 
Library. There is no charge tor discussion groups, seminars, pray­er groups or meetings. This year. however, an $8 fee is required for any function involving the use of cooking facilities, according to Toohey. 
A Bulla Shed contract drafted by Campus Ministry defines the use of the .building by organizations. It states: "The use of the Campus Ministry Activities Center (Bulla Shed) for all social events is under strict contractual arrangement. These events mu~t be con~idcrcd 'official.· that is. thcv mu~t be formally sponS<lred b~·-residence halls or official clubs or organiza­tions of the Uni\·ersitv of Notre Dame. The acti\·ity musi be open to every member of that dorm. dorm section. organization. etc .. \\·ithout discrimination. 
The Bulla Shed is located at the corner of Juniper and Bulla Roads. across from the tow~rs. 

%The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Business Manager Tom Fronczak Advertising Manager Mike Miller F:10to Editor Tony Chifari Production Manager Martha L. ~"'anning 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Phone•(219)283-8661 [ND] (219)284-5365 [SMC] 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief Dan Sanchez Managing Editor Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed Gregg Bangs Executive Editor Val Zurblis Executive Editor Pat Han1fin Editorial Editor Bob Mader Exec. News Editor Maureen Flynn Campus Editor Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor Don Reimer Copy Editr,r Tim O'Reiley Features Editor Frf'd Herbst Sports Editor 
------------------------------~· 
Friday, October 8, 1976 


More of a Debate 
The second "Great Debate" was much closer to being a real confrontation bet ween incumbent Ford and challenger Carter than was their first meeting. This was primarily due to the fact that each man, particularly Carter, evaded the glorified press conference format of the debates and went after his opponent. The result was a more decisive and revealing battle, with the edge going to Carter. 
Neither candidate has had much prev­ious experience in debate. Both apparently chose to play it safe in the negotiations over the format, agreeing to an uncomfor­table compromise between· a double "Meet the Press" and a head-on debate. They continued that cautious attitude in the first meeting, fearing to appear aggressive. The result was a disappointing draw characterized by masses of stock 
If the official format is scrupulously followed it does not allow much chance for the cut and thrust of face-to-face forensics. Each man is allowed only one brief rebuttal to the other's statement. Rebuttals must be left unanswered, no matter how inaccurate they might be. At the same time, the format does not allow enough follow-up questions from newsmen to make a revealing press conference possi­ble, especially considering the number of issues. 
Yet Carter and Ford did battle each other more this time by avoiding some of the questions and concerning fire on the opposition. Each directed more remarks to the other. Carter struck harder, declaring Kissinger president of foreign policy and scoring with debate points by implying Marx and Ford .both believe capitalism needs war. 
However, because of the question-and­answer format, each man had to avoid full answers to the questions to make time for confrontation. This probably lost them some support from those who wanted direct answers to direct questions. Carter, 
because  he  departed  further  from  the  
format,  left  himself  ore  open  to  such  
losses.  

Yet on the whole,' Carter came off considerably better than did the President who should have been talking about what he knows best: his day-to-day work. The debate itself better revealed the policy differences between the two candidates and the validity of the arguments they present. 
It is unfortunate that the format for the last "debates" will remain the same. But the candidates have shown that it is possible to work around that format and to approach real debate. Carter, by edging Ford, showed the political advantages of the direct attack. We hope that the next debates will provide an ~ven sharper and clearer clash between the candidates. Such a clash could puncture some of the empty campaign rhetoric on which they have too often relied. 

P. 0. Box Q 

Dear Editor: from having outside communica­
tion. Therefore, I am seeking 
I hope it will interest you to print correspondence and friendship this letter in your newspaper, or from anyone who shows an in­bring it to the attention of others terest. through some means ·of communi-· Although I am incarcerated, I'm cation. I-offer you my sincere also a college student, and I feel gratitude. that we possibly share a common 
I am a young man presently interest or goal. If anyone desires to confined in one of Ohio's penal write, I will be very pleased to institutions, and unfortunately, answ.er all letters that arrive at the circumstances have prevented my following address: 
Robert Cameron 133-058: P.O. Box 69 London, Ohio 43140 
Thank you! Robert Cameron 
P.S. It is very important that my serial number [133-058) is printed as .a vital part of my address. I hape you will also encourage all potential writers to use it. If this is not done, letters will not reach me. Thank you. 
DOONESBURY 
HOfJ/COUto 7HifTIAJfYtfAN POSSIBLY 
eeT2~ OF 7H1i Vtll/3.?! SHE 
HA5N'T &V£N C4MPAI6NEP! I 
/XJN'T THINK SHE'S GIVEN A 
SIN6lE SPtECH SINe& 
JUNE! "" 
by Garry Trudeau 
lACEY I OON'T BCU&vt PAVfflPtKT? 7H/51 I JUST 
WH!ii?E'P SHE IXdT 8cUc'l& COME Ff<OM? IT! \ 
\ 
~'T 
SHEKNOIAJ 
HER. PAKfY JSIJYIN6?/ 
\ 

P. 0. Box Q 
Smith 
Retracts 

Letter 
Dear Editor: · ­
Because of my stupidity for 
having written and having placed 
in the letters column my letter 
which appeared in the Tuesday, 
October 5, issue of The Observer, I 
have written this letter as a 
retraction. 
I would like the public to be 
aware of the following points: 
• 
With my letter I made an unwarranted personal attack upon Andy Praschak. 

• 
This personal attack was made in a forum where such an attack should never .be made --in a newspaper. When such an act is performed, it cannot be other than detrimental to the subject of the attack. 

• 
In my former letter, I implied that I was speaking for other members of The Observer staff. This implication was false. I was speaking merely for myself. One should never, as I did, purport to speak for others without their consent. 

• 
The apology I offer in this letter, however, comes from the entire editorial board as well as from myself. They have been consulted on this matter and concur than an apology is due. When any member of a representative group such as our editorial board addresses the public (as I did through my former letter), that member, by implica­tion, cannot help but speak for the entire group. 


Again, Mr. Praschak has my apologies and retraction for the insults containedwithinmy letter in the October 5 issue of The Observer. 
Chris Smith Asst. Managing Editor The Observer 
Editor's Note: The Editorial Editor deeply regrets the appearance of Mr. Smith's original letter on this page due to insufficient supervision on his part. 1 
Angers Article Unfair 
Dear Editor: 
For some reason, the article of September 30 entitled, "Angers 
Impressed Students" doesn't seem 
quite fair to me. Being. an 
X-" Angerine", (and, of course, 
biased), I don't feel that this article 
doe's justice to the Angers progam; 
at least it doesn't make Angers 
sound "impressive". Although the 
article is well-written and the facts 
well-presented, something is lack­
ing -enthusiasm. 
Many of us Angers grads would 
like. to speak up for the exci•Lg 
side of th~ Angers p:ogram. 
Although Angers is not "a swing­
ing town" and although the town 
retires by 10 p.m., the Angers 
Domers. have many opportunities 
to create their own excitement. 
True, Angers l"(as no Nickies and no 
McDonalds, but in addition to the 
cultural benefits mentioned in the 
article, Angers has numerous wine· 
caves (where one may sample 
French wines to his heart's con­
tent), a student union, (where 
French and American students can 
party together) and 10 trains daily 
to Paris! (Personally,I would prefer 
a day in Paris to a day in $_outh 
B..:nd!) 
The opportunity for travel was 
not mentioned in this article. M'lmy 
students join the Angers program 
more for this opportunity than 
anything else. Going to Spain for 
the weekend is almost as easy as is 
going to the Dunes for campus 
students. 
The language was a problem, but 
most of us went to France without · "knowing the lingo'' and thought 
the year worthwhile! Mastery of 
the language was nut a prerequisite 
of going to Angers. It would have 
helped, of coufse, but none of us 
fell that we had it! 
We did face "culture shock", 
anti-American feelings and a lan­
guage barrier. But, something 
about a year in Angers -perhaps 
it's sidewalk cafes -made us all 
want to go back someday. Another 
motor bike ride across the Anjou 
countryside would do anyone a lot 
of good! 
Rose Blondis 

Letters Policy 

'I 
1. 
Letters -must be signed, although . upon request the name will be withheld from publication. 

2. 
Letters must be on topics of general interest and be written clearly and intelligently. 

3. 
They should be kept as short as possible since we wi:sh to print' many different points of view. We reserve the right to edit letters for reasons of length. 




-------------------------------. Friday, October 8, 1976 the observer 
r-----------~---------------------------­
----------------~~~~~~~~----~ 


letters to a lonely God 
neither elephant nor oak tree 
/ 
Once again, the September song is over. lt is the Birthday Week, and life grows mellow like a vintage wine, along with the ripedng apples and the pumpkins yellow­ing in the fields. One thinks: "If I survive for another fifty years, I will be celebrating a personal centennial; I shall be honored as a patriarch." Nations celebrate centen­nials and bicentennials, and institutions ha. e them too; but human expectaticos do not much exceed the Biblical aFe of threescore and ten. Elephants anc' oak trees live longer than men do. As one who is neither elephant nor oak, I envy the beast and the tree. For me, It seems there can never be too many autumns; there can never be sufficient Aprils to have immortal longings in. Even in bedroom slip,1ers, wrapped in flannel, after a hundred birthdays, I shall continue to want to see the' sunsets on a summer's ocean and the sight of lonely gulls riding the breakers of an incoming tide. I may not be the stuff from which patriarchs are made, but I hope that these eyes will not finally fail until they are an old man's eyes. I hope that when a final weariness at last overtakes me. I will have had a patriarch's share Qf 
>'atchings and blessings at weddings and christenings of the tribe. 
There is a dear little lady with Irish blue eyes whom I especially think of on l'irthdays. She lives in Maine near the sea m an ancient farmhouse with back pastures that are visited by deer every morning at daybreak. She is eighty-one years old, with grandchildren and great­grandchildren, a matriarch too gentle to claim the title. She and I have shared an interest in my birthdays since before I was born. Years ago. she gave away the substance of her wealth as a support to helpless people. and for a long time,, she 
•• has lived on a fixed income received monthly. The other day she sent a check with the simple notation, "For my ex­penses.'' If you have ever wondered at the size or appearance of a widow's mite, you should see that check (it was for four hundred dollars). If you have ever needed a11 example of the restraint and dignity with which age accepts its mortality, you should think of the thoughtfulness accom­pao~ying that check, with its terse not?tion, "For my expenses." "For my expenses,·· inc:ced! As if to say, "We ¥ankees are practical people.\ Everything costs money. including death. As a simple business arrangement, I want to share the death tab with my survivors." Even among Yankee widows, there is sometimes a heart matching the beauty of Irish blue eyes: a heart that makes a mother anxious not to be a burden to her family; a heart that is fierce with the Yankee virtue of self­reliance; a heart that imposes a discipline in spending so that a widow's mite may be left over for the expenses of one's burial. The poet Keats, dead at twenty-six, wrote these lines: 
When I have fears' that I may cease to'be Before my pen has gleaned my teeming brain, 
· 

Before high-piled books, in charact'ry, Hold like rich garners the full­ripened grain; When I behold, upon the night's starred fa'ce. Huge cloudy symbols of a high romance, And think that I may never live to trace Their shadows, with the magic hand of chance; And when I feel, fair creature of an hour! That I shall never look upon thee more, Never have relish in the faery power Of unreflecting Love!--then on the shore Of the wide world I stand alone, and think Till Love and Fame to nothingness do sink. 
Celebrants of birthdays, approaching or by-passing fifty, are halfway between the moods of young poets fearing they may cease to be, and the seeming detachment of Yankee widows sending checks for their expenses. But, one wonders, if Keats' pen had gleaned his teaming brain, and he had lived to be eighty-one or older, would he still have stood alone on the shore of the wide world, ar. thought, ''Till Love and 
Fame to nothingness do sink"? Having traced the shadows of the symbols of a high romance beheld on the 1 night's starred face; having written the high-piled books in charact'ry; could he then have sent off checks for his expenses, like a Yankee widow, without further fears that he might cease to be? 
I can only answer that for myself I have a fear of ceasing to have birthdays. I think I can· never be surfeited with birthdays. Birthdays, as celebrations of life, are the links joining ol).e year with another. Through them, I look on all my yesterdays, and hope for my tomorrows. To have a brithday remembers what it meant to be seven, when you were taken to the country and allowed to ride on a horse. To have a birthday remembers when you were seventeen, and if the war lasted another year you would be in the army. 
Always on birthdays there are people to be remembered: grandmothers who baked cookies, nuns who gave you holy cards, chums who were closer than brothers; young girls who brought you flowers. Birthdays brought you freedom; birthday brought you wrinkles; birthdays made you Jld enough to drink, old enough to vote, old enough to be married without the consent of pa-rents. All of it, and everything--every happiness, grief, and funeral; the dancing on high school afternoons, the walks in the rain on city streets, the graduation days, the mortal illnesses survived--every' second of a happy, not compl'etely painless, life, is recapitulated and made simultaneous on birthdays as you remember, and pray, and thank God, and bless the events that need a winter, spring, summer, and fall to spread themselves out over, so that life will 
magnificent meals in michiana 
Que bella Italia! The graceful lines of her Renaissance architecture enchant even those who think of buildings only as piles of stone. Her opera waltzes through the air. whether it is a performance at La Scala. gondoliers on the canals of Venice. or peasants in the vineyards. And her cu.isine. ahhh; it weakens diets even· more than Delilah shearing Sampson's locks. 
From the outside. you might think Macri's missed on all counts. Just past the railroad bridge on Lincolnway East. it is situated in an old house, with a neon sign out front and a dirt parking lot in back. But as some great trattorias in Florence arc located on dark alleys. so the food here clearly overwhelms the surroundings. 
The small dining room mirrors the decor of many a restaurant in Italy. Though the wine-bottle lights. different style chairs, arid check-pattern tablecloths may look somewhat makeshift, it is very typical of the land of Leonardo. Despite the clatter of the muzak, it is a congenial dining atmosphere. 
The overture of the meal began with , something no one can argue with · Italian 


the week in entertainment 

ON THE TUBE 
Friday, October 8, 1976 
The Great Houdinis (8:00pm. Channel 28): Paul Michael Glaser of Starsky and Hutch plays Harry Houdini in this biography of the great escape artist that concentrates on his private life, especially his relationships with his wife and mother. An excellent cast combined with an interesting story promise to make this one of the finer, examples of the made-for-television genre. 
Saturday, October 9, 1976 
Baseball Playoffs: For the sake of brevity, here are the times of the scheduled three games this week for each league. The American League games will air at 11 :30 
a.m. on Saturday and at 7:00 p.m. on Sunday and Tuesday. The National League series opens 7:00 p.m. on Saturday with Sunday and Tuesday games at 2:30 p.m. 
The Blue Angel -(8:00 pm, 34): Director Josef von Sternberg made some magnifi-

Reverend Robert Griffin 
not hit you all at once, and its bright intensity kill you. ­
There is a portrait of the lady with Irish blue eyes that dates back to a long-ago summer when she was a young woman expecting a baby. Living that summer on one of the Bay islands off from Portland on the coast of Mai-ne, she had gone fishing as the men and children still go fishing from off the coastal rocks. Those rocks caJ be trir 1~y and dangerous of footing, especia _y, it would seem, for a womar clumsy with pregnancy; but the blue-eye• Irish girl was as fearless as a Yanket. fisherman in her need for being intimately touched on the face and hair by the wind, the sun, the surf, and the sea. For two hours on an August afternoon, she stood there casting from a rocky point that only birds could reach with ease. Afterwards, the older women were angry at the risks she had taken. A local artist painted the scene; and it is a study in stillness of a love for life. 
J'here is another picture, too, this one a verbal picture, of the blue-eyed Irish woman at eighty-one. In the recent summer, she went to the back pasture at daybreak to watch the deer that-play by the sea; and finding strawberries, she stopped to pick them. The younger womer. she lives with were angry at the risks she had taken of falling, because eighty-one is not always steady on the feet. I am sure there was a smile in the Irish blue eves, as she submitted humbly, not really listening. to the scolding; remembering the beauty that blesses life, for a girl or a woman, in a New England landscape. 
macr1.,s 
bread. both in slices and-fried garlic stick form. From there one proceeds to the good, though limited, salad bar. featuring beets, beans. ri1acaroni. plus only two dressings. Also offered before the entree is soup, a minestrone burgeoning with vegetables and a robust broth. 
Though the menu has its American side. steaks and hamburgers can be found all over town, while Macri's touts its Italian culinary creations. From the approximately 20 entrees. special guest gourmette Susan Schellenbarger delved into the half lasagna 
' -half ravioli plate ($4.00, including salad). ' Though she noted that the excess of the sauce tended to overwhelm the cheese. it delighted her more than the arias of La Traviata. The ravioli were well-formed and stuffed with hamburger, with the entire plate served in plentiful proportions. I selected the cal zone ($4. 75 for the complete dinner).· ground sausage, pep­pers. mushrooms. and melted cheese in a tortilla shell, all covered with sauce. Served on the side was an ample portion of spaghet.ti. a tradition with almost any Italian dinner. The sauce tends to be a btt 
cent movies with Marlene Dietrich. not the least of which is this account of a cabaret singer who toys with the dangerously passionate affections of a middle-aged schoolmaster with tragic consequences. Von Sternberg adored Dietrich as a woman as well as an actress, which isn't hard to tell from' his film. The Men Who Made the Movies (9:45, 34): ~his is an extremely well done series by PBS and narrated by Cliff Robertson. Among the fine directors they study are Howard Hawks, Leo McCary and this week's subject, Alfred Hitchcock. 'fhe film clips ,from Psycho, North by Northwest, Tom Curtain, The Birds and Frenzy are excellent, and Hitchcock's comments on each are a true education for anyone who likes his films, and who doesn't? 
Monday, October 11 

Jesus Christ, Superstar (8:00 pm, 16): Norman Jewison did a fine job of transfering the great Broadway musical Fiddler on the Roof to the screen, but ·wasn't quite as successful with this rather 
Irish mothers and romantic poets, view­ing their mortality, must stand alone on the shore of the world, having fears that they may cease to be, though the Irish mother has never spoken of fear. She doesn't speak much of love, either, though she is full of it. She certainly would be shocked at the Keatsian notion of brooding over death until love sinks into nothingness. As for losing beauty, I think she plans to take it with her. Keeping close to the things she has always enjoyed, as when she visits meadows and strawberry patches. she seems to be packing memories to take on a journey. 
When I have fears that I mav cea~<:· to be ... then I look on a mother wi.th Irish blue ,!yes who is the fair creature. not of an hour, but of four-fifths of a centurv. Fmm her, I realize it is not an essential· thing to survive to be old; one must rather survive to be beautiful. Being beautiful. and having beauty in one's heart and Irish eyes. is as much of immortal longings a~ a Birthday Person needs to have. On 111\ birthda;·. my mother's beauty is her gift t;J me. as it has alwavs been. and she doesn't even know it. It ~-ould be sentimental to talk about the worth of mother!!; but I will say this: there are some four hundred dollar checks you wouldn't exchange for a million. 
Happy Birthday. Dick Conyers. Eternal peace. Bob Rieman. Two years ago, you joined Dick Conyers and me, on your choice of a ~pecial day. Now your celebrations are immortal. 
by tim o'reiley 
too heavy on the tomato paste. thus lackmg the entrancing delight of the great pasta sauces. But overall. the calzone was well executed and very filling. 
The wine list is short and somewhat expensive. but does have enough variety to adequately complement the meal. 
Considering the tempting array of Italian sweets. dessert should not be neglected. Though selection is again limited. the two Italian desserts do well. The spumoni (60 cents) is a dish full of flavorful. mixed­flavor ice cream For a more unusual deJection, the cannoli ($1.00) is worth investigating. Filling in a light tas-t}" crust in the shape of a hollow log. it is a heavy. rich cream with bits of pistachio included. Those of strong taste buds can finish off the affair in traditional style. with a cup of expresso. 
A family-owned business. it exudes the friendline~s and hospitality one could expect. The service was pttentive and good. while Mr. Macri himself proved a most gracious host. The prices and entire atmosphere will make for a pleasant evening. 
unconvincing adaptation ot the religious rock-opera based on Christ's final days. 
Monday Night Football (8:00 pm. 28): Frank, Howard and Alex report all the a~tion~ from the Coliseum as the Los Angeles Rams host the San Francisco 49ers. 
ON THE SCREEN 
Engineering Auditorium: The Longest Yard (Fri., 7:00,9:00 and 11:00 · $1.00) The Candidate (Sat. and Sun., 7:00. 9:00 and II :00 -$1.00) 
ON STAGE 
Heartbreak House: _George : Bernard Shaw's bittersweet sattre conttnues at O'Laughlin Auditorium tonight and tomor­row night. The curtain goes up on McKenzie, Rogers and the rest of SMC­ND's highly talented corps of student actors at 8:00 p.m. (For •ickets call 
284-4176.) 
the observer 
Mental patients' rights groups protest 

forced drug use 

Pacific News Service--When 30 year old Bay Area carpenter Don­ald Stein refused to take his medications at California's state mental hospital at Napa, a team of psychiatric technicians followed him to his bed, cornered him and forcibly injected him with a needle. 
Despite evidence that psycho­active drugs cause brain damage in a significant number of users, the nurses at Napa, where Stein was formerly a patient, round up the patients and pass out the drugs four times a day. Those like Stein who refuse to take them are th.~n forced to. 
Mental patients' rights groups across the country call that "chem­ical rape;" mental health author­ities call it chemotherapy. · Both agree that psychoactive drugs have become the standard treatment for more that 'six million Americans now involved in the mental health system. In California, for example, 90 percent of state mental hospital patients are on drugs, according to state hospitals director Don Z. Miller. 
California recently joined a hand­
ful of states with laws restricting 
involuntary treatment by electro­
shock and lobotomy--but no state 
allows involuntarily committed pat­
ients the right to refuse psycho­
active drugs. 
Donald Stein is going to court to 
try to change that. This fall, the 
case of Stein vs. Linn joins another 
in Massachusetts as the first 
lawsuits challenging the right of 
psychiatry and the state to violate 
the civil rights of persons labled 
''insane.'' 
Meanwhile, California mental 
patients' rights groups are taking · their case tc state health officials and legislators and running into 
solid opposition. 
After Network Against Psychiat­
ric Assault (NAPA), a San Francis­
co-based patient~· rights group, sat 
in at California Gov. Jerry Brown's 
office for one month this summer, 
state hospitals director Miller con­
ceded, "I think we use drugs too 
much." 
Since then a state Assembly research committee has launched an investigation into the use of drugs in state hospitals, but state ·health director Dr. Jerome Lackner 

says he remains opposed to NA­PA's demand for an end·to forced drugging. "I just don't think all patients are capable of deciding for themselves," Lackner says. 
Another patients' rights group, the Committee Against Forced Treatment, has been unsuccessful in enlisting a legislative sponsor for its right-to-refuse-medications pro­posals. And the psychiatric estab­lishment, organized health workers and the pharmaceuticals lobby have already indicated opposition to any legislation granting patients the absolute right to refuse dru&s. 
Attacking the use of psychotropic drugs is like attacking the found­ation of the modern mental health system. The U.S. now uses $570 million worth of psychoactive drugs annually--and usage is increasing by 11 percent a year, according to a Squibbs Corp. survey. 
"Drugs are the only break­through psychiatry has had in the last 20 years," says NANA state hospital Medical Director Abe Linn. "If I had to choose between medications and group therapy," Linn says, "I'd choose drugs. You can do psychodrama, Gestalt or scream all you want, but you're not going to get the results you get with drugs." 
Psychoactive drugs--mainly Pro­lixin, Thoraxene, Naldo! and Mel­Ieril--usually make patients calmer and more manageable. The drugs­which don't cure mental illness--do suppress hallucinations and mental confusion · and tone down the bizarre behavior that disturbs the rest of society. 
However, the possible side ef­

fects of psychoactive drugs run for 
two columns in most drug litera­
ture: drowsiness, blurred vision 
and speech, loss of libido, heart 
disease, fetal deformation and 
permanent brain damage in the 
form of tardive dyskinesia--uncon­
trollable muscle spasms that ap­
pear in from 30-50 percent of users, 
according to Dr. George C. Crane,· 
the nation's leading authority on 
the disease. 
Nevertheless, much of the psych­iatric establishment, represented by the American Psychiatric Assoc­iation, now supports the biological theory that mental illness is. caused by a chemical imbalance that may require life-long drug use. 

The Neighborhood Study Help Program is attempting to provide better training for its tutors this year. 
Study Help Program 


Tutors receiving preparation 

by Chris Datzman Staff Reporter 

Beginning its fourteenth year. the Neighborhood Study Help Pro­gram seeks to help South Bend schoolchildren both academically and socially. Volunteers from the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community spend an hour and a half twite a week tutoring gradeschoolers in math and reading. 
''We've added a new emphasis this year on quality rather than quantity,'' said student organizer Rick Van Buren. "In the past we let the tutors rely on their own resourcefulness for teaching tech­niques, but this year we hope to prepare the tutors for their ser­vice." 
The program's two hundred volunteers began instructing this week at twelve grade schools and neighborhood centers. For most it was their first experience at being both a teacher and a friend. 
A first-time participant, Melanie Jorgensen commented, "It was a beautiful experience. When we got off the bus at the center the little kids swarmed around us yelling hello and hugging us. It makes you feel you're doing some good." 
The Neighborhood Study Help Program began in 1963 with a small broup of students who wanted to tutor. By the late sixties member­ship had risen to 500 ·and federal funds were procured from the Office of Economic Opportunity. In 1973 the program lost its funding when it was mov~d down the 
priority list. Since then they have had to raise their own finances. 
tually cut costs. Today the program operates on 
Besides their regular tutoring an $8,000,$10,000 budget provided 

sessions the volunteers take their by ND-SMC student governments, students ice skating, to football Volunteer Services, private dona­
games and to an annual picnic. All 

tions and their own sponsorship of these acitivities are directed toward movies and concession stands on building a good relationship be­football weekends. Most of the 
tween teach and student. budget is spent providing trans­Anyone interested in volun­
portation to and from the centers teering for Neighborhood Studyfor volunteers. Presently the Help can still do so by calling Tom coordinators are trying to secure Shetfield at 272-4965 or Mary 
two new vans which will even-Nowalk at 4-4405. 
.. 

Scandinavian Seminar accepting applications 
Scancinavian Seminar, a study abroad program in Denmark, Fin­annd; Norw:ay and Sweden, is now accepting applications for the aca­demic year 1977-78. This living­and-learning experience is de­signed fm; college students, gradu­ates and other adults who want to become part of another culture while acquiring a second language. 
An initial 3 weeks language course, followed by a family stay whenever possible, will give the student opportunity to practice the language on a daily basis and to share in the life of the community. For the major part of the year he is separated from his fellow American students, living and studying among Scandinavians at a "Peo­ple's College" (residential school for continuing adult aducation) or some other specialized institution. 
All Seminar students participate in the introductory, midyeaf·~and final sessions, where matters re­lated to their studies, experiences and individual progress are re­viewed and discussed. Tht!t'ticus of 
che Scandinavian Sminar program is an Independent Study Project in the student's own field of interest. An increasing number of American colleges and universities are giving full or partial credit for the Seminar year. 
The fee, covering tuition, room, board, one-way group transpor­tation from New York and all course-connected travels in Scan­dinavia is $3,800. A limited number of scholarship loans are available. For further information, write to: Scandinavian Seminare, 100 East 85th Street, New York, N.Y. 10028. 

*The




Observer 
The Observer is looking for 
people to deliver the pa­
per on Thursdays, and 
every other week on 
Mon., Wed. and 
Fri. Call 8661 
if interes­
ted. 

Call8661 
and ask for 

FRIDAY 5:15­MASSS SUPPER A very informal gathering of good people, at Bulla Shea, ti:Je Campus Ministry Activities Center, the little green house at the comer of Bulla Rd. and Juniper (in the middle of the block, across from Grace Tower and the Ubrary). 
Friday, October 8, 1976 the observer
Beginning after break 

Laundry revises pick-up schedule 
do this." Staff Reporter resulted in a slowdo•vn of the One of the women laundry laundry system in the first few workers added the was 
by Mike Towle articles of clothing. This has 
move intended to give better service.

The Notre Dame laundry service weeks, a slowdown that will be will be returning to last year's alleviated with time. However, this She also admitted that the expected results have not been realized yt,
pick-up and distribution schedule has not bee the 0nly complaint of but they will be catching up right
beginning Oct. 25, according to • the students. Regarding the new, centralized after the October break. The schedule will be as follows: location of the laundry pick-up for Some male students have been both quads, Weiler added, "It's using the washers in the women's
Monday: Dillon, Fisher, Cavanaugh. 
really inconvenient having to go all dorms for their own convenience. ·• 
Tuesday: Alumni. Keenan 
the way down to the main plant just Weiler stated, "I'd rather wash my Stanford. to pick up our laundry." own clothes anyway. I'll use the Wednesday: Ranner, Pangbor John Reynolds, junior, echoed girls' washers whetker I am and Morrissey. this sentiment. He added, "When allowed to or not." 
hursday: Sorin, Howard, Zah <he laundry pick-up for North Quad Keglovits realizes that students nd Brownson. residents was located in Keenan have some complaints regarding riday: Carroll, Holy Cross, St. last year, it was quite easy and shrinkage -and disfiguration of .d's and Grace. convenient to pick up the laundry clothing. It is his understanding between classes. Now, its location that this usually can be expected of clothing, especially when it is new.
Adolph Keglovits,, the director of is totally out of the way of He is quick to point out, though,student laundry. This change will everybody." 
that students washing their ownenable students to get their laundry Keglovits believes the new loca­

back a day quicker than previously tion of the pick-up is, in fact, better clothes are more susceptible to this year. for the students. He emphasized, rashes and diseases because they "The laundry plant is centrally are not totally knowledgeable of the
"With our current system, it is proper way to wash their clothes.
taking three and a half days for 
I GO~ ~~u.------. 
In addition, the Notre Damestudents to get their laundry re­laundry service_ is unique in that itturned," said Keglovits. "With a ~"~ n:s\-:..


MVE,,. is the only such•campus service return to our schedt le of last year, available at universities in thethis time interval will be shortened United States.
to about two and a half days." 
Keglovits' announced change in Cleveland Club policy has been influenced by the reactions he has received from sponsors bus some students. Bill Weiler, a junior resident of Grace, stated, "I The Cleveland Club will sponsor 
think it's pretty bad that the a chartered bus leaving Friday, laundry is unable to return our Oct. 15, from the Notre Dame CCE laundry within three days, con­at 1:30 p.m. and from St. Mary's 
sidering the amount of money that LeMans Hall at 1:45 p.m. The 
we are paying for the service... located. It is advantageous for the buses are expected to arrive in students because if they find they Cleveland at approximately 7:30 
There is a reason for this delay in are missing an article of clothing, p.m. service this semester. ' Keglovits they are at the place where they Buses will return Sunday, Oct. attributed this to the long process should claim it. In the past years, 24. They will be leaving the by which the laundry workers have they would have to walk between downtown bus terminal at 6 p.m. to place markings on unidentified the pick-up and the laundry plant to and Exit 9 of the Ohio Turnpike at 
6:30p.m. Today is the last day to make

St. Mary's HPC organizes, 
reservations by calling 3805 or 1694. Payment must accompany the reservation. Club members


discusses role in Gov't. 
may ride the bus round-trip for $20 

by Maureen Sajbel presidents, representatives from and one-way for $12. Non­Staff Reporter Augusta Hall and Mary Ann Stoltz, 
members must pay a fee of $23 for 

Vice President of Student Affairs. 
the round-trip and $14 for a One of the first aims of the new one-w_ay trip.

St. Mary's 'Hall President's group is to research the problem of Council met last night for the assaults at St. Mary's. second time to further . >rganize and "We'd like to initiate an inves­LSA T registrationdiscuss their role in Student Gov­tigation into the assaults on cam­ernment. Issues discusst~d included pus," explained Julie Pellettiere, abolition· of the Hall Li; e Commis­Holy Cross President. "We'll pro­at Brownson Hall sion, assaults at St. Mary's, the tect the privacy of the girls, but "Urban Plunge" program, approv­would like to find out where these Any senior registered to take the ing parts of its constitution, and assaults were occurring so we can LSAT test tomorrow may pre­revising hall constitutions. warn the students. register for the test at Dr. Grande's 
With the initiation of the St. ing was the "Urban Plunge," an office in Borwnson Hall until 5 p.m. 
Mary's HPC this year the need for "awareness" program set up to today. the Hall Life Commission dimin­expose college students to situa­According to Bob Boyd, presi­ished and the HPC discu-.sed its tions other than their everyday dent of the Notre Dame pre-law 
elimination altogether. The HPC environment. Students will spend society, those who pre-registerwill act as the intermediary for the two days of their Christmas vaca­with Dr. Grande will take the exam individual halls with Student Gov­tion living in inner city situations, in Room 419 of the Administration ernment. studying old age homes, or visiting Buidling instead of at Stepan "The HPC is a vehicle through prisons. After this brief exposure Center. These students will be which any organization can address the program participants write a assured of a prompt 8:30 a.m. the Student Body," added Susy paper on their experiences. for starting time, whereas those taking Gauthier, McCandless President which they teceive one Theology the test in Stepan may start much and HPC Chairperson. credit. Further information will be later due to the pre-registration . 
The Council consists of hall available through Hall Councils. process. 








ARNING 
Any Senj9r Who has NOT PAID the balance due on the California T~p by Friday, October 8 wilf LOSE their place on the trip A~D th~ir $50.00 .deposit. The paym-ents are being collected from 1-5pm_ in LaFortune Ballroom & 168 LeMans · 
Some students are worrying about mid-terms, but marn freshmen s!iU have the perennial Thursday night problem • Emil. \photo bJ 
Jim Hofman.) 
., • 1 • 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
INTERVIEWS SCHEnlJLED FOR THE WEEK IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING THE FALL RKEAK -OCTOBER .:~ THKULT(:H .·~ 
Interviews are for seniors itlld gra<luate student~. Si~n-11p schedules are in Room 213, ~ain ll·•ildin~. lntervit•w timt•s must he signed for in person. Law School sign-ur~; are at the Pre:...Law Soc1etv IJulletin Ho<~rds, C1 'Shau~hne~!'V Hall. 
The sign-up period .ut tht• l'l.:tce~>,..nt HurPau w·ll ht.• frPm 
!!:00 am. to 5:00pm., Nondav throu"h rhursd<lv. 
OCT. 25 Christian Brothers (Eastern Provinc~-Educationl ~on iii1D-in "AL.-E'G. ·sc~ sB"A .r\d ·MBA. · .. ­Duke Universltv, Grad. School ot Hu~. Admin. ~,;ce lle.d ---. 
Hallmark Cards Inc. llH in AL, Chern, Mt.. Ml::!O, ChF. 1->Mll in Matl1. All !lilA. Xerox Corporation ll in ALand BA. Sal~s Rer l<•r (•ak llrook, IL hronch onlv. 
OCT 25/2h/27 Price Waterhouse & Co. 
Mo;:;(:r;_;/Wed--ll in-A~<-t. MilA .w! th Acct bkRrd nr nmcent rat Inn. I ' 
QCT 0 I6 Amos Tuck School ot llus. -~dll>_. _D_!Irlmouthc~:>lle~··· !TlWS AIT·f;,tere-st.ed -;;tud~nts. Continental Oil Co. -Chemical Division
ii;;-chE and-Che;,;:------. -­Manufacturers National Hank of Detroit All BBA. MilA with :'in bkgrd or concentration. Union Camp R&D PhD in ChE, Anal. and Phvsical Chern. Wharton Graduate Divis;on. Univ. of Pennsvlvania. All bachelor degree candidates. 
OCT. 2 7 Atlantic Richfield Co~any-Ha~~~ Technics' renter Wed RM in rhr:. 
Cornell'Universitv. Gr.od. School o· Bus. Ad..,!n. AITbachelo.r degr~e candidates-:---------­
Indiana State Personnel Board B in AL, BA and SC. 
Nor.thwes tern Mutua 1 Life Insurance Co. 
ilr.lin AL.-'AICssA_-----------­
rrocter & Gamble Co. Product Devel~m~nt. BM in ChE. MBA with B in ChE or Chern. 
OCT.  28  !:!a_!l~r~C~1r_d~J.nc.  
Thur'S:'  MBA.  
IBM Corporation  
BMD in all disciplines for Data Processin"/General  
Systems-Sales/Marketing/Systems Engr; Office Products­ 
Sales/Marketing. BM in EE for R~search/Desi"n and  
Development Engr; BM in Comp Sci or Math, Physics,  
Chern with Comp Sci o_ptions. December graduates only.  
Indiana State Highway Commission  
B in CE.  
Montgomery Elevator Company (Changed from Nov. 23)  
Bin Mkt, Mgt with Engr background. B in EE, ME  
with business background.  
OCT  28/29 Arthur Young & Company  
Th/Fri  B in Acct. MBA or JD with undergrad. degree in Acct.  
OCT  29  Chicago Department~Public Works  
Fri  BM in CE.  
Electronic _Qata Systems Corporation  
BBA, MBA, BM in Econ, Math, Physica, MElO or other  
discip'ines with a desire for data processing career.  
B. F. Goodrich Co,  
For: Engineerin_£ Graduate Program, BM in ME, ChE, F.E,  
MEIO, Environ. and Safety Engr. For: Chemical Co:  
BM in ChE. B in ME.  
Johnson & Johnson  
B in~JMEIO for Packaging Dept, Project and Process  
Engr, Preventive Maintenance. B in Acct. B in AL  
and BA for Prod. Supr.  
Northwestern Universi~. Grad. School of Management.  
BM in all disciplines.  
Wheelabrator-F!l!_Inc -Rust Enginee~~~  
Bin CE,~ME. '  
LAW SCIDOLS  
Suffolk University  
Mon  All interested student~.  
\ocT  28  Washington & Lee Universitv.  
Thurs  All interested students.  
Boston University.  
All interested students.  

Employer Information. Alternatives. Teaching. Summer. Action/Peace Corps/VISTA. federal Service. Room 213, Administration Building 
10/7/76 


r 
! 
t 
I t I 
10 the observer Frida,y, Octo!,er 8, 1976 

Lewis, Lyons, BP cop lnterhall wins 
Pace's Picks 
For those of you who have a monetary interest in the professional football action set for this Sunday, The Observer has decided to start its own betting line. The line is based upon the teams' talent, the location of the game, and the recent performances of the teams. 
AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE 
BALTlMOREover Miami by 6 points--The Dolphins are coming off a tough loss. while the Colts has a breather last Sunday. Buffalo over NEW YORK JETS by 17 points --The Bills are improving; the Jets are hopeless. Pittsburgh over CLEVELAND by 11 points--Chuck Noll's troops will not lose 3 in a row. Oakland over SAN DIEGO by 13 points--The Raiders still rule the West. HOUSTON over Denver by 3 points--The game is in the Astrodome. CINCINNATl over Tampa Bay by 20 points--Ken Anderson should throw for more than 200 yds. 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE 
Dallas over NEW JERSEY GIANTS by 6 points--The Giants open their new stadium, but the Cowboys spoil the party. ST. LOUIS over Philadelphia by 13 points--The Cards offens'! steps into high gear. MINNESOTA over Chicago by 2 points--The Vikes "saved" Tarkenton for this game. Atlanta over NEW. ORLEANS by 6 points--The Falcons are improving. GREEN BAY over Seattle by 8 points--Two in a row for Bart Starr's Packers. 
INTER CONFERENCE GAMES 
:-.lew England over DETROIT by 14 points--The Pats are hot and the Lions ilave a new coach. 'NASHINGTON over Kansas City by 9 points--The Redskins need a victory to stay near the Cowboys and the Cards. 
MONDAY NIGHT GAME 
LOS ANGELES over San Francisco by 7 points--The Rams may let down after last week's victory over the Dolphins. Home teams in caps. 
'---------------------------·· 


Irish women down Butler 
by Mark Scribner singles match, Sue Flanigan over-Sports Writer came her Butler opponent 6-3, 6-4. 
On Saturday, the Notre Dame Competing in doubles action, women's tennis team travelled to Diane Shillingburg and Sharon Decataur, Ill. to compete in the 61st Sullivan had no trouble in over­Annual Dorothy Maguire Tennis whelming their opponents 6-1,1 6-0, · Tournament. Although team and Ann Gardner teamed with scores were not calculated, Coach Mary Jo Cushing to win 7-5, 6-4. Kathy Cordes stated that the Notre The third doubles pair of Monica Dame women "probably finished Stutke and Linda Sisson played in the top five in a field of their first match together and were 

, twenty-three mid-western col-defeated in a tough three set 
NOT GOOD ON 
leges." The doubles tandem of contest by the scores of 7-6, 4-6, 
CARRY-OUTS
Jane Lammers and Diane Shilling-1-6. 

burg led the Irish cause before,_:.,:;__~________...;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;iiiiiijji1l 
being ousted in the quarter-finals. Playing singles Paddy Mullin also stood out for the domers. 
In a home dual match on Monday the Notre Dame netters soundly defeated Butler by winning seven 1 out of nine matches. Number onej singles player Mary Shukins ledl the way with a convincing win of 6-4. 6-1. Jane Lammers won her match as well by the scores of 6-1, 6-4. Numba· three singles player Ellen Callahan lost in split sets 6-3, 6-7. 2-6. Coach Cordes praised her effort since normally she is strictly a doubles specialist. Performing in the fourth slot Paddy Mullin work­ed out a 7-6, 6-1 decision, and 

.. Ginger Siefring followed with an easy 6-2. 6-3 triumph. In the final· 
Women's b-ball 
There will be a mandatory meet­ing for all those interested in playing for the women's basketball club on Wednesday, Oct. 13, in the rec room of Lewis Hall at 9:45p.m. Contact Sally Duffy at 7514 for further information. 


Psst!! How 'bout a Quicki 
Leaves Main Circle N.D. H.C.SMC 

8:30  11:00  
9:00  11:30  
9:30  12:00  
10:00  12:30  

Stops at Kubiaks 
Boars Head 
Heidelberg 
Shu las 
Forum theaters 

Denny's TONIGHT Sept 24. 
off and Kate Sarb connected on TD pass to Chris Burns. The two passes of 20, 26 and 19 yards to put point conversion was good and the ball inside the 10-yard line. Badin led 8-6. That was the way the From there she lofted the ball to score remained until the Breen-Beth Conlisk who made an out-Phillips score at the end of the standing catch and Breen-Phillips game. was on the scoreboard. The extra attempt was no good. Lyons 22 l<'arley 0 
The Badin score was set up by In a game played Tuesday, Lyons three consecutive runs of 11, 24 pped their record to 2-2 while and 23 yards by Daine Halliwell trley fell to 0-3. Lyons, playing that advanced the ball to the 8-yard .thout star quarterback Jill De-line. After losing yardage on their 1cia, had no problems rolling up next 3 pla_vs Badin faced a fourth 'he score. On the first play from and 12 play. Judy Tempel tossed a scrimmage Sue Augustus picked 
oF a Farley pass and returned it 60 yards for the touchdown. The extra Hockey tiX tO QO point attempt was no good. Lyons added a touchdown laterOn Sale next week. in t.he ha~f on a 11-yard run by 
Season hockey tickets will be available to students beginning next week. 
These tickets will be on sale on a first-come, first-serve basis at the #3 Ticket Window on the second floor of the ACC. Notre Dame students may purchase their tickets on Tuesday, Oct. 12 and Wednes­day, O'ct. 13 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. St. Mary's students may purchase tickets on Thursday, Oct. 14 from 9 
a.m. to 4 p.m. Each student may present only his own ID. Student wishing adjacent seating must purchase their tickets at the same time. 
There are three types of student tickets available to students this year; There are eight two-games series this season. A tickets for all 16 games costs students $16 and a student's spouse $24. Students can also purchase a first-game-of-the­series-ticket or a second-game-of­the-series-ticket which would en­title a student to see either the first game or the second game of each of the eight home series. Each of these tickets are $8 apiece for stuedents and $12 for a student's spouse. 
No season game tickets will be sold after Oct. 14. Single game tickets are $1.50 for students with presentation of an ID card. 
Howe on WSND 
Dick Howe, a junior defenseman on the Notre Dame hockey team, will be the guest on John Stenson's Campus Corner show on WSND-AM radio this Sunday night at 6:30. 
louies' Super Special 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 
ALL NIGHT 
$1 OFF LARGE PIZZA 
$.50 OFF SMALL PIZZA WITH CUPON EXPIRES OCTOBER 9 

Sheila Sm1th that was set up by a 49-yard pass from Sharon Lopez to Andy Hoffman. Kathy McCann ran the ball in for the extra points and the half ended 14-0. 
The second half was played in pouring rain. Farley mounted a drive early in the half aided by outstanding runs by Chris Datz­man. But on a fourth and 3 on the 9-yard line Farley was stopped. Two plays later Lyons scored on a reverse by Michelle O'Haren that went for 90 yards. Kathy McCann again ran in the extra point and Lyons won 22-0. 
Lewis 16 Farley 0 
Lewis maintained their winning streak and upped their record to 4-0 setting up their match with second place Walsh today. The Lewis defense was splendid especially Maureen Sullivan and Pat Meyer who intercepted passes. Meyer returned her interception to the Farley 4-yard line from where Erin Burns burst up the middle to score a touchdown. Robin Jenkins com­pleted a pass to Anne Burgess for the two point conversion. 
The next time Lewis gained possession of the ball, they moved down to the Farley 6-yard line, a 
drive that was highlighted by the 
running of Mary Ellen Pearce. However on fourth and four, Kathy Gannon broke up a Robin Jenkins pass. A long run by Debbie Bieber moved Farley out of danger as the half ended. 
On the second play of the second half Mary Wood caught a short pass from Robin Jenkins and went 72 yards . to score the second touchdown of the game for Lewis. Again a pass from Jenkins to Burgess was good for the two point conversion. So Lewis, who had been gl'Od on only 1 out of 9 extra point attempts going into the game was successful on both of their at-te·npts. 
by Win Palmer 
Sports Writer 
Breen-Phillips scored a stunning victory over Badin 12-8 and Lewis triumphed over Farley 16-0 Wed­nesday afternoon. On Tuesday Farley lost to Lyons by the score of 22-0. 
Breen-Phillips 12 Badin 8 
Breen-Phillips gained their first victory of the year in a dramatic comeback fashion. With two min­utes to g'l. in the game Breen-Phil­lips received possession of the ball on the Badin 40. Three plays later and with just 38 seconds showing on the clock they had moved the ball to the 26-yard line. Having used up their last timeout Breen-Phillips· put the ball up in the air and Kate Sarb connected on a pass to Cathy Schneider to advance the ball to the 11. Then, with time running out, Sarb threw the win­ning touchdown pass to Beth Conlisk. 
Each team scored on their first possession of the first half. Breen-Phillips received the opening kick­

Friday, October 8, 1976 the observer 1 1 
ND field hockey team blanks Hope 
by Mark Perry of the first half as Hope dominated 
Sports Writer the early play. The visitors had 
several shots on goal, but Irish 

A stro_ng defense and good usage goalie Mary Hums was always of scoring opportunities enabled there to kick the ball away and the Notre Dame girls' field hockey prevent any rebound shots. team to shut-out Hope College, 3-0, About the middle of the half, the at a game held at Cartier Field last Irish started to gain control and night. with 1:25 left, Notre Dame put up a 
The win put the Irish over the strong rush on the right side and a .500 mark. as they raised their quick pass to the left side found season record to four wins, three Kim Manzi all alone in front of the losses, and three ties. net where she flicked the ball past 
Both teams had an equal amount the Hope goalie. of scoring threats throughout the The Irish continued their strong game, but the Irish showed some play, and with only 2 seconds left in strong passing around the net the half, Maria Calabrese put in ·a which turned out to be the differ-rebound to make the score 2-0. ence in the game. Notre· Dame opened the second 
The game was scoreless for most half strongly. as they immediately 
:::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::~~-:~


Tony Pace Merry-Go-Round 
Coaching 

In light of the recent hirings, firings. and interim appointments in the 
ranks of professional coaching, it is good to take a look at coaching 
functions. What is it that makes one coach superior to another? 
First of all. a coach or manager must have a thorough knowledge of the 
sport he is involved with. The strategic decisions of the game must be 
made by the head man. He must also devise a game plan and adjust it to 
the circumstances of the game. While some may 0ccasionally quibble 
with a managerial decision, one would have to admit that the vast majority 
of professional coaches are intelligent within their field. 
Secondly, coaches must be able to evaluate talent. They must know the 
strengths and weaknesses of their players; they must know who to play 
and when to play him. If the rightfielder can hit a ton but has a weak 
throwing arm, he should have a defensive replacement in order to 
preserve late inning leads. 
Thirdly, a coach must create and maintain a ''winning attitude.'' While 
sports people have mutilated this phrase, it is not rhetoric. Of the three 
managerial functions I have discussed, this is the most difficult to 
accomplish. The downfall of most coaches can be attributed to a poor 
team attitude. While some succeed in creating a good attitude, few can 
maintain it. 
Billy Martin and Red Schoendienst have illustrative coaching careers. 
Schoendienst's Cardinals won the World Series in 1967, but they have 
done little recently. As a result, the St. Louis club dismissed Schoendienst 
this past Tuesday. He had a "winning attitude," but he could not 
preserve it. Martin did well for a year in Detroit, Minnesota, and Texas, 
but he failed as the newness wore off. It will be interesting to see how the 
Yankees fare in the playoffs under Martin's tutelage. Maybe he will even 
see his contract come up for renewal. 
The career of Dick Williams has also had its ups and downs. With both 
the Boston Red Sox and the Oakland A's he was a winner. This past 
season, however. he had one of the worst teams in baseball. the California 
Angels. The players hated him and applauded his firing. He was just 
signed by the Montreal Expos. How will he do? I do not know; he has 
lost whatever coaching touch he had and regaining it may be a problem. 
What makes a good coach? The three skills I listed are important, but 
the element of luck has more than a normal bearing. The differences 
between those in the coaching population are not that great when one 
reaches the professional level. It is for that reason that owners will change 
coaches at a moment's notice. As long as this feeling is prevalent, and I 
do not think it will be altered, the merry-gQ-round notion of coaching will 
persist. 

Write for free information-without obligation. Glenmary Missioners, Room J-22 Box 46404, Cincinnati, OH 45246 
Name ___________________ Age ______ 
Address ________________ 
City------------------------------­

took control in Hope's end. On a around the net, and the defense rush down the right side, Sue • rarely allowed Hope more than one McGlinn made a great pass in front shot towards the goal. 
of the net, and Kim Manzi was there to score her second goal of The Irish played a double-header the game about three minutes into last Saturday as they defeated the second half. Marion, 2-0; and battled Taylor to a 
Hope dominated for most of the scoreless tie. Carola Cummings and Sue McGlinn scored the goals
h f

second al • but Notre Dame's for the Irish in the win over Marion. Hums continued her strong play ' Next on the schedule for the Irish 
Notices 

Will teach you flute in your sparetime. For info, Call Beth 8112. 
Hotel or motel room needed for 
parents Oct. 15 and or 16. Please 
call Anne, 1362. 
Gay Hotline: Friday and Saturday,10:00 to 12:00 p.m. 283-8870. 
G.C.N.D. P.O. Box 206. Notre 
Dame. 
Addias ·Shoes (57 varieties) shirts, 
bags, etc. Quick orders. See 
catalog G5 Farley, Chris or Mary.
3982. 
Experi"enced pilot will fly 2 or 3 passengers to destinations with in 250 mile radius os N.D. Weekends or tor breaks. Return flights can be arranged. Call Jon Reyniers MBIO 3396 days, 684-5867 evenings. 
Free!!!' 
1 0-week old kitten (male) Call 
Terry, 3888. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Dono­ho. 232-0746. 
For Rent 

Furnished apartment for rent, 2 bedrooms, utilities furnished, pri­vate bath, and entrance. No pets,quiet adults, deposit. Forest ave. 
off Portage. 291-0556. 
Lost and Found 

Lost: Gold initial rinn "GVO" in 0' Shag last year. Call Gregory8856. 
Lost: 2 rings in vicinity of ROTC buildings. High school green stone, and turquoise with mother pearl. Reward offered. Please call 
Kevin 233-4222. 
Let a smile be your umbrella on a 
·ainy day, but I need my light
Jrown wrap-tie raincoat! Reward. 
::all Karen . 6994. 
Lost: Brown Corduroy jacket at SMC Clubhouse party Friday. If found call Lou, 6818. 
Found: Hunting knife left in car byhitchiker Friday night. Call 255­8496. 
Lost: Gold watch and nold band. Perhaps around St. Mary's ReginaHall. Band had links missing and face cracked in three places, If found, please call Jim, 272-6075. 
Found: One Rockwell calculator. Identify where lost and model and it is yours once more. Call 291-8329 after 5 p.m. Mark. 
Lost: Texas Instruments SR-11 in 
organic lecture 'bout 2 weeks ago.
Please help me keep my head 
above the rising physics-infested 
waters. Call 291 8329 after 5 p.m., 
Mark. Can identify it. 
Wanted 

Ride needed to Wash. D. C. area for Oct. break. Call Donna 8112. 
Wanted: Pair of Oregon tix for Mom and Dad. Call 3429. 
Help!! Need 2 GA Oregon tickets. 
Call Gregg at 1650. 
Need 2 GA Barna tixs desperately. 
Call 1785. 
Desperatley need ride to Columbus 
Ohio weekend of Cot 9. Call Gary
1785. . 
Addressers wanted lmmed iatel,y!! 
Work at home ·· no experience 
necessary · excellent pay. write 
American Service, Suite 132 
Minneapolis, MN 55426 
Roll Tide --Got some extra GA tix 
you wanna get rid of fast? Call 
Mary 8125. 
Need 2 Barna tix for parents who 
have never been to an NO gbame.
Mary 8125. 
Ride to Toledo this Friday. Call 
Peggy 8125. 
Need 6 GA Oregon tickets. C•ll 
7128 
Need ride to Buffalo for October break. Call Chris 6881 
Need desperately two Alabama GA tickets. Will pay $$$ Call 4-5237 


Classified Ads 
Need 2 GA Orenon tix. Call Dick 
1204. ­
I need a ride to Minnesota for Oct. Break. Call Steve 1478. 
Need r.ide to Binnhamton or Ithaca NY tor Oct. break. Will share driving and $. Please call Jill, 1333. 
I have 4 GA Orenon tix. Must trade for 2 GA Barna tix. Call Kevin,
1183. 
Help! !Need ride to Danbury, Conn. for break. will share Mark 3481. 
Help!! Need ride to Oklahoma City or thereabouts. Promise to providegood food, jokes, driving and $$. 
Call Greg 8856. 
Need 2 GA tics tor Orenon. Phone 
Bob 255-8660. · 
Will trade 2 section 26 Orenon tix for 2 Bama tix. Call s·teve. 287-6823. 
Associated Cleaning Service needs one male to work on campus from 9 
p.m. to 1 a.m. 5 days a week. Pay rate $2.40 per hour. Responsibleindividual only. Inquire at 232· 
7441. 
4 GA Oregon tickets needed tor loving parents. Joan 1334. 
Millionare Irish fan from Minne· sota must have 4GA Barna tix. Unlimited Funds!!! Call Dan 1420. 
I want you . to sell me 3 or more GA tics to Oregon Karen 6737. 
Desperately need up to 5 GA tickets for Miami game tor Mom and Dan and the kids. Call Pen or 
Rose at 468 2. · 
Need 2 Oregon GA tickets Call Kevin 289-6929. 
Julio's Carry Out Part-time deliv· ery guy wanted. Must have own car. Guaranteed $3.00 per· hour. Call 233-2354 after 4 p.m. 
Need one Alabama ticket. Call Robbie 8706. 
I want to go home -urgently need ride to and from Bergen Co. New Jersey or New York City area. Will share expenses and driving. CAll Mark 1200. 
Need tour Orenon tickets. Call 
Debbie 4728. ­
Wanted: Two GA Alabama tickets. Call Ron 1203. 
Needed urgently! One or two housemates (male or female) tor an old hous near corner of Hill and 
Napolean; 3 bedrooms, completebdthroom, well insulated, gas heat; nrce neighborhood. Please call me now, Bill, 7437, till 5 p.m. weekday 
2 rides available to and from Washington d.c. area for break. Leavin(l Wednesday, Oct. 13 after classes. Call Dave 8810 or 3697. 
Need ride to Central New York near Bin(lhamton or Syracuse preferably CAn Leave Saturday p.m. Call 
Mary Kay 6874. 
Need 7 GA Orenon tickets. 
259-0631 after 5 p.m. 
Experienced guitarist seeking t. form rock and roll band with other students. Must be experiencedalso, and must have own equip· ment. Cai1Bobatl487. 
Ride need to Wash. DC area for break. Call Sus 4-4548. 
For Sale 

For Sale '71 Pinto good transporta­tion Call Bill 288-5972. 
New London Lake Condominium, 2 bedrooms, den, 2-car garane.$33,900. Sandy Stroes, 2i2-77SO or 
272-2696. 
For Sale: 2 Earth Wind and Fire tickets. Padded seats, must sell!!! Call Wendy, 8112. 
Personals 

Opie, this is.your very own HappyBirthday personal. 
Hal, Happy Birthday one day late. Hope you are able to reild this 
today. · 
will be a game against Franklin College this Friday at Cartier Field, beginning at 7:30 p.m. 
B-ba/1 tryouts 
Varsity basketball tryouts will be held on Friday, Oct. IS, at 4 p.m. in the ACC pit. These tryouts are open to all students. 
Pinball, Good lucl<. on your LSA 1". The Smoker. 

Gus: In Boxin(l you're tough in interhall you're rou'lh so in admiration I say·have a happy b day Candy. 
Mirwel Po.: favor, te suplico que te diviertas un chorro, e1 sanaao Feliz Cumpleanos'
Flash! 
To the person who put •n 'ha' ''~'' personal. sorry I could~'' put •n thl· upside down exclamat.on mar 1<. or the tilda but this dun>L maclline just won't type thin(ls l•l<.e that 
Mickey, What happened to the beer' Or did you forget our number' Joe and Joe 
Kathy, \love you, Mike 
P.S. I promised. 
Mr. Woods. I still don·t feel well·. 
Hit to Yo<1 i from Boo Boo Had anypicnics lately? 
Moe Reynolds Here's your pt•rsonal . now get oft my back! 
Hey Mike! Let's try again!' Happy Birthday.Judy and Lei[lh. 
The Case Sisters. SMC's answer to the Ba(l Bros. For application \all Sad Case: 4044 Get off My Case: 4357 Just In Case: 4447 
Katie Or is it with a'" here it is love. Are we impressed? Let's run barerwot trhough a field of goulash.
(Hungarian preferably) Hi! Sis! Really? Walden Puddle. Ellen Zonker has filled my life once more. Long my Phred find cached Schlitz. TNX Walden Puddle. 
SBM, This one is tor you, just to let you know I was thinking of you. 
South Quad Championship Yo-Yo Tourney this weekend. Don't miss it. 
Blue-EyesRoses are red Violets are blue Numero tre tiglio Buono October 8th to youA&P 
Betty and Charlie Thank you for 
lunch. Gary. 
Anyone not going home for break who want to stay in Chicano call Debbie at 4 5758. · 
Donna, Cheese baby! You're a great payand that's Larry. How? 
].4 3 
the Bobbsey Twins 
Notary Public Mike Borders, 300 Morrissey, Ab sentee ballots usually need to be notarized. 
Happy Birthday to Eileen Bean. Be prepared to make this birthday one of those ultimate groovisms. 
Wishing Eileen, the fairest Irish Lassie a fantastic 21st birthday!Good times, good friends, and good lookinrr look alikes!'!XXXOOO 
Tyour twin. 
It's Eileen O'Grady's birthday tomorrow. Call her up and wish her a happy 21. For a Good Time, Call 8008. 
Michael Peter, I must have missed you at Thunder 
Road, and i know how easy it is to get lost on the Back Streets because they really are a Jungle­land, and the river is wide so youprobably couldn't get across, but 1 know this isn't the Tenth Avenue Freeze-Out 'cause: "tramps like us, baby we were Born to Run." 
Me. 
Dearest Dakota War Hawk, You are launching a defensive retaliatory raid and the offensive strike has yet to hit. Don't waste your ammunition now, sweetheart, cause you'll need it all later. Meanwhile, make love, not war. Peaceful Pennsylvanian. · 
Hey Dingle·dwarf, C elbrate your 18th in style with peaches and cream. Happy Birthday . Certain Assorted Toad!O. 
Dave Reeve: kicking his way ( 1 into the Irish record book 

by Paul Stevenson Sports Writer 
The Irish took the ball on their 
first possession of the Michigan 
State contest and drove to the 
Spartan 30 yard line before stall­
mg. Dave Reeve was called upon 
to attempt a 47-yard field goal and 
the rest was history. 
The junior· kicker from Bloom­
ington, Indiana, connected on his 
three point attempt, tying an 
ail-time Irish field goal record of 
21, set by Bob Thomas, a 1974 
Notre Dame graduate. 
Aside from handling the kicking 
duties. Reeve played offensive 
guard at Bloomington South High 
School. Reeve relinquished the 
line chores due to severe shoulder 
burns which he received from an 
explosion while working over the 
summer. 
''The doctors told me I wouldn't 
be able to play football because I 
wouldn't be able to put on a pair of 
shoulder pads," Reeve remarked. 
·'I wouldn't take no for an answer, I 
wanted to play and make any 
contribution to the team that I 
possible could." 
The doctors believed Reeve 
would have to undergo skin graft­
ing, an event which never 


Austgen stars 
Dave Austgen led the Notre Dame soccer team to an 8-1 romp over Marian College yesterday. 
Austgen scored on a penalty kick in the second half. the first goal of his four-vear career. Bob Gildead and Tom" Crotty each added two goals for the Irish, but it was the inspired play of Austgen that proved to be the key to victory for Notre Dame. . . 

occurred. Within three weeks of 
the explosion the Bloomington 
native was back on the gridiron in 
time for the opening game. 

"It was really amazing; the 
doctors thought that I would have 
to have grafting for sure," he 
commented. "But the burns 
healed and didn't scar.'' 

Reeve played the entire season, 
earning his second varsity letter 
and setting the record for season 
and career conversions and field 
goals. He connected on 16-24 
three-pointers while notching 104­
114 extra points.

Then high school football ended 
and Reeve had to look to the future. 
Notre Dame was in need of a kicker 
and Reeve was just one of the 
numerous candidates vying for the 
position. Little by little the 
competitors were eliminated, 
leaving only Reeve and Garo 
· • b h
Yeprem~an s younger rot er. 

In February, he was invited to 
visit the campus. "Coach Par­
seghian asked me to show him how 
I kick,·· the Irish kicker stated. "I felt funny going through my kick­ing steps right in his office, but if it was worth a scholarship, I'd do anything." 
"Coach Parseghi.an then asked me if I'd like a scholarship and would like to play football here. It didn't take me very long to decide, because I signed my intent to 
attend Notre Dame the following morning," he related. 
Georgia Tech was the opening game in 1974, and Reeve's first chance to demonstrate his skills. "The field goal I kicked was only 22 yards but to me it was like 80," he 
recalled. "I was so nervous that even my first extra point seemed far." · 
"About a week before mv first 
.!:~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::.:::~:::::::=::::::=====~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Fred Herbst 


Football Picks 
============================================================:===:=:============================================================================================================================================================================================================================·== 

The Irish Eye
. Things are starting to take shape in college football '76.-Michigan, 
Pitts_burg, Oklahoma and Georgia all look inpressive and appear to be the 
leadmg contenders for the mythical mational championship. Still, one 
can't count out Missouri, Southern Cal and UCLA. Other teams, such as 
Notre Dame and Maryland are also likely to make !.-;;~mds before the 
season ends. 

Miami of Ohio, Penn State and Alabama are all mysteries. Each was 
expected to field powerful teams, only Ito boast losing records. 
But the highlight of the season for many is the agony suffered by Woody 
Hayes at Ohio Stafe. After being beaten at home two weeks ago by 
Missoure, the "mild-mannered" Buckeye mentor was forced' to swallow 
his pride last week in Columbus, playing scared and running out the clock 
in settling for· a tie with UCLA. 
While t,lle Irish have Saturday off, there are .some big games on tap 
across the country. So with the help of this week's Guest Picker, Mary 
Reher, here are the Irish Eye's picks: · 

Swathmore at Franklin & Marshall: Quarterback Joe Coviello will have to be at top form in order to withstand the violent Swarthmore defense. While playing in relative obscurity, Swarthmore is a team on the move. After going eight years without a win, they actually went 1-10 last season--remarkable improvement. Still, Coviello has thrown 43 TD passes in his brillant career at F&M and has his entire offense in high gear. It'll be a battle of offense against defense and look for the offense to win. Franklin & Marshall by 20. Reher: F&M by 7. 
Boise State at Cal Poly Obispo: Cal Poly will have their hands full tomorrow as they battle heavily favored Boise State. Since Coach Tony Knap came to the Broncos, it's been bombs away on route to a 71-18-1 record. Look for Boise STate to continue on their way tomorrow. Boise State by 17. Reher: Boise by 14. 
Vale at Dartmouth: Greg Robinson and his mates on the defense line have been murdering opponents all season as the Big Green are on the move. Yale. unlike Dartmouth, is your typical Ivy League football team'-disgusting. Dartmouth by 6. Reher: Dartmouth by 17. 
Hofstra at New York Tech: Steve Verderosa, the George Sauer-type wide ·eceiver and all-American candidate, leads Tech into tomorrow's critical battle with Hofstra. These two powerhouses are an even match, but the ~dge has to go to Tech who will be playing in front of a partisan sellout :rowd at beautiful Tech Stadium (which, in reality, is C.W. Post's home iield). Tech, who is 3-0, should get their first win of the campaign this weekend. Tech by 6. Reher: Hofstra by 10. 
Southwest Louisiana at Lamar: Lamar is attempting to rebound from a >omewhat disappointing season last year (1-10), and morale is high. ;;ormer Notre Dame player Roy Henry leads the Ragin' Cajuns, and as !hose who remember know, he can throw the football. The SW program is -.m the move and they shouldn't have too much trouble with Lamar. Cajuns by 14. Reher: Cajuns by 7. 
·'iortheast Louisiana at McNeese: It just wouldn't be right to pick Southwest Louisiana without picking Northeast Louisiana. McNeese is ;oming off an excellent 7-4 season and will be all that NE \\ill be able to game, guys were kidding me 

saying, 'This is big stuff now.' 
Coach Blache noticed I was uptight 
and told me not to let the pressure 
bother me, telling me that I'm here 
and I'm good enough to play 
here," Reeve continued. 

In 1974, Parseghian's final year 
as head coach, Reeve was second in 
scoring, hitting 7-10 field goals and 
booting 38-40 extra points. Last 
season Reeve led the team in 
scoring with 57 points, notching 
ll-16 three-pointers and 24-26 
pat's. 

Although being consistent, Reeve has experienced times of difficulty. 
"Coach Kuhlman helps me if I'm in a slump," Reeve said. "He's good because he knows me as a person and he knows when I'm uptight.''
This season the Bloomington
native has connected on 3-5 field goals and 10-12 extra points. His next three-pointer will set an all-time Notre Dame record of 22. 
"If 1 do break the record I'd like to Only a junior, Dave Reeve has already made it into the Notre Dame do it at home," Reeve mentioned. record books with his kicking ability. [Photo by joe Burns] 
"I really don't stop and think that this kick will break the record, I just I'm in the game, I know I can do it try to kick them all the same way., and I try to picture myself doing it 
"You know, a kicker can only be as I did in practice.'' as good as his offense allows him to Although Reeve puts in time be, .. he noted. "I've been lucky perfecting his kicking, he is the that our offense has been able to first to point out that he couldn't do move the football and enabled me it alone. "Rick Slager, my holder, 
to kick.'' and Howard Meyer, the long snap 
Practice is essential in perfecting center, deserve more credit," he any skill, and for Reeve it's a time acknowledged. ' to evaluate his abilities. "I realize Yes, Reeve will be the first to what my range is," Reeve stated. compliment the offense with their "My range goes to 55 yards, and ability in providing him an op­anything under SO yards 1 kick the portunity to kick-. but he himself 
same way." has also done much for the team. 
"During practice I've kicked Just remember, the next time from all over the field, getting the Meyer snaps to Slager and Reeve feel of the different areas. When connects with a three-pointer, a 
handle. McNeese by 10. Reher: NE by 10 . 
Morgan State at Maryland Eastern Shore: Morgan State ts well known for 
their football. Maryland Eastern Shore is known for their basketball. 
Tomorrow they play football, so make it Morgan State by 10. Reher: 
Morgan by 24. 

· North Dakota State at Mankato State: This could be the best game of the weekend. Both sq·uads enter the tilt highly rated, Mankate being ranked number one in the country by the Czar Football Poll. Since the game is in Mankato (wherever that is), they have a definite advantage. Mankato by 
3. Reher: North Dakota by 3. 

lehigh at Bucknell: The Engineers tasted d"efeat last week for the first time. The brutal and ferocious John Matt didn't like it. Despite the loss, Lehigh is ranked seventh in the nation in Division II Lehigh may be the best team in Division 11. Bucknell is favored, but take the Engineers by 6. Reher: Bucknell by 7. 
Morningside at South Dakota: State has a rugged ball club, one that's just too tough for Morningside. It's a great name, but what's in a name? South Dakota State by 12. Reher:Morningside by 3. 
Trinity at McMurray: The Tigers went 6-4-1 last season behind a strong defense and a good air attack. This season they have 18 of last season's starters back, so they're tough. McMurray has a new coach and nothing but question marks. Trinity by 7. Reher: Trinity by 14. 
Tulane at Syracuse: The Orange got their first win of the season last week and are hopeful of turning their season around with another win tomorrow. Tulane is better than people think, but Syracuse needs this game too badly to let it slip away. After going 6-5 last season, a season that gave Orange fans high hopes for this year, Coach Frank Maloney is starting to feel some heat from their 1-3 start. Syracuse by 7. Reher: Tulane by 14. 
Saginaw Valley at Youngstown: Eight seniors will be starting for their fourth consecutive season for Youngstown. Quarterback Cliff Stoudt is a pro prospect and leads. the team. Saginaw Valley may be unknown, but don't be fooled, they are more than capable of producing the upset. Still, it's Youngstown by 9 .. , Reher: Youngstown by 7. · 
O'ReUey State at Stevenson Tech: Quarterback Joe leads a potent O'Reiley offense, but the ,Slim Waiters have their problems on defense. Stevenson relies on Sven Bjorklen, one of the few players still around that starts on both offense and defense. Believe it or not, Bjorkleri plays both ~uarterback and middle linebacker. Behind his play, Tech is hard to beat. Tech by 2. Reher: O'Reiley by 35 (they're small but mighty) 
UPSET OF THE WEEK: 

Oklahoma at Texas: The Sooners are playing good ball now, but so are the Longhorns, who have righted themselves since opening day. Just because it's in Pallas, Texas by 3. Reher: Sooners by 21. 
. 

Last Week: 10-4-1, 70 pet.; Guest Picker Monte Towle: 11-3-1, 77 pet. 
new Notre Dame field goal record will have been established. 
8-ball season tickets on sale 

Season basketball tickets will be 
available to students beginning 
Tuesday, Oct. 12. The cost of a 
reserve seat ticket will be $32 for 
the lower arena and $24 for the 
bleachers. There is a limit of one 
ticket per student. These costs 
average out to $2 per game for a 
lower arena seat and $1.50 per 
game for a bleacher seat as 
compared with the public reserved 
seat price of $4 and $3. Approxi­
mately 5.000 seats will be held for 
students. 

Those Notre Dame students who 
made a deposit in the spring to 
reserve a ticket for the basketball 
season can obtain their ticket at the 
Ticket Sales Windows on the 
second floor of the ACC from 9 
a.m. to 4 p.m. (including the noon hour) on Tuesday, Oct. 12 through Friday, Oct. 15. 
Upon presentation of a student 
ID, the "Balance Due" will be 
collected and the student will 
receive his ticket. Seating priority 
was determined at the time of 
deposit in the spring, so the time 
and day that a student obtains his 
ticket will not affect where he is 
seated. The Ticket Office will 
accept only one ID and one 
payment from one student. 

If a student does not obtain his 
ticket before Friday, Oct. 15 that 
student will lose his seating prior­
ity. All unclaimed tickets will be 
offered for sale beginning W ednes­
day, Oct. 27. The student's deposit 
will either be refunded or applied 
toward purchase of a bleacher seat. 
Any student who did not make a 
deposit last spring, but would now 
liketo purchase a season ticket may do so after midsemester break. Seniors may purchase tickets from 9 a.m. to noon on Wednesday, Oct. 27; juniors, law and graduate students on the same day from 1 
p.m. 
to 4 p.m.; married students and sophomores on Thursday, Oct. 28, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.; freshmen on Friday, Oct. 29, from 9 a.m. to 4 

p.m. 
These hours include the noon hour. 


Married students desirous of 
purchasing adjacent tickets for 
their spouse must waive their class 
priority as stated above and wait 
until Thursday, Oct. 28. Tickets for 
the married student will be $24 
plus $28 for the spouse's tickets, 
only bleacher seats are available. 
St. Mary's students will also 
have an opportunity to purchase 
tickets according to the above 
schedule. The price for St. Mary's 
students will be the same as the 
Notre Dame students, $24. How­
ever, only bleacher seats will be 
available for sale. 

Notre Dame & St. Mary's stu­dents wishing to sit together must purchase their tickets consecutively according to class priority. The Ticket Office will accept one ID and one payment from one individual. 
J 







