

by Phil Cacldey Senior Staff Reporter 
Planks supporting women's rights, stiffer gun control mea~­ures, and large scale economtc reforms to help minorities were passed Friday night by the Mock Democratic Convention's Platform Committee in a fifth and final meeting. 
Advocating passage of the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA), among other specific legislation, the com­mittee also called for full employ­ment to help lift minorities out of their economic dilemma. 
Controls on buying guns ap­proved by the committee included state committees to determine who would be permitted to purchase firearms. and state regulation of stores selling firearms. 
Also passed were planks favor­ing family planning, reforms in criminal rehabilitation, decriminal­ization of marijuana and a crack­down on the selling of narcotic drugs, and equal recognition of l~rael's and Palestine's rights to live in the Middle East. 
...---------------.,.purchase a gun, state regulation of tee . 
Debate was subdued at the final 
meeting of the committee, with 
women's rights and gun control 
issues being the most difficult 
proposals dealt with. The minority 
rights bill was passed unanimously 
with no debate and no amend­
ments, thanks to a proposal drawn 
up by the Black Caucus. 
The main area of contention in the women's rights bill was whether to support the ERA alone, or to also advocate legislation dealing with specific women's problems. After a lengthy debate, the delegates kept both the ERA and the specific legislation. 

The plank said that far-reaching 
anonymous y reforms were needed to stop sex called for repeal of the 19th 
discrimination and called for en­Amendment and legislation so that forcement of already existing laws, the word "person" in the 14th the passage of the ERA or specific Amendment would not be con­legislation, enforcement of Affirm­strued to include members of the ative Action programs, and in­
female sex. The bill received one creased government hiring of qual­vote. ified women, especially in high Gun controls called for by the 
level Federal jobs. committee included a mandatory 
A minority plank of exactly the two week waiting period before same content was passed except it buying a gun, state committees to made no mention of the ERA. determine which applicants could 
Borges opens Literary Festival 
by Reed King Staff Reporter 
The lOth annual Sophomore Literary Festival began dynamical­ly last night with the appearance of Jorge Luis Borges, the internation­ally renowned Argentine author. 
An excited, capacity crowd of over 600 students and professors jammed Washington Hall long before Borges was scheduled to appear. When the blind writer-poet finally was Jed slowly onto the stage, wild applause was there to greet him. The momentum of that rousing welcome carried through the entire evening, as the audience became immediately enraptured with the pert little man, so full of vibrant mental energy. 
Borges' talk focused upon Walt Whitman, especially his poem, "Leaves of Grass." He spoke of Whitman's great contribution to America, descnbing him as an "essential poet" in the formation of America. As Borges explained, Walt Whitman wrote of everything in America, both the good and the bad. 
He further portrayed Whitman to be a great believer in democracy who felt that the New World createda poetry all of its own --that of the common man and his life. 
Borges described Whitman as the "Father" of free verse and use of colloquial language in po­etry. He talked of the great poet's influence in his own writing, ad­ding that Whitman's epic poem, "Leaves of Grass," was a poem of all men of all ages, and that it allowed everyone to share vividly in his dream of America. 
Borges openly declared his ad­miration of Whitman as a great man, not merely a clever one, as shown by his statement, "Clever-ness was tor Jesser men I'' As Borges further mentioned, ''Amer­ica has given the world Walt Whitman, and the world should be grateful." 


Although not a believer in demo­cracy himself, the Argentine author was still able to demonstrate vividly Whitman's great love for America. In fact, when Borges spoke in his lilting, musical voice, one got the impression that Walt Whitman himself was speaking. He portrayed Whitman as a real flesh-and-blood human being, al­beit a very wise one, not merely as a vague figure resurrected from some dusty old history or literature textbook. He spoke of Whitman as an old friend, almost as if he had known him personally. 
Throughout the entire evening, the audience was simply enthralled with Borges, who addressed them as a friend, almost as if he were a wise grandfather relating various tales of his life. Borges' humor, candor, and energetic personality endeared him with everyone. 
During a question and answer period after his talk on Whitman, he was very witty and at home wit his audience. In an indirect response to a question about which "category" he felt his works belonged to, he replied, "No reason to read my works at all. don't read them. I only write them." 
When asked whether or not his works were surrealistic, Borges retorted, "No, I know little about surrealism and care less." Borges' quiet, dry humor kept the audience always on its toes and attentive. 
Also during this question period, a glimpse of the deep inner forces acting within the man was appar­ent. When asked if there was any driving motive behind his writing, Borges responded softly, "No, I follow the whistling of the wind, my dreams." This was greeted with much applause. 
Borges' talk was concluded with a fine round of applause from an appreciative audience, a tribute to a truly great writer. 
The Sophomore Literary. Festival will continue tomorrow with the appearance of John Gardner in the Library Auditorium. His talk will begin at 8:00 p.m. All are invited and encouraged to attend. 
stores selling firearms and in­A minority plank on family 
creased penalties for persons using planning said the Federal govern­
a gun in a crime. ment should not support or subsi­
Chuck Wilson, chairman of the dize programs designed to limit the 
Black Caucus, presented a bill on size of a family. 
minority rights drawn up by the A criminal rehabilitation plank 
caucus. It called for full employ­called for more flexibility in prison 
ment, with the government being systems and sentencing proced­
the employer as a last resort; for ures, and for restoration of civil 
millions of additional workers in rights to prisoners after release 
health and day care programs, from prison. There was aLo to be 
education and environmental pro­insurance of civil and human rights 
tection areas; and for a guaranteed to convicts still in prison. 
adequate income and elimination of Immediate decriminalization of 
waste in defense programs and of marijuana and a crackdown on 
tax loopholes. major traffickers of hard narcotics 
The bill was passed unanimously was advocated by a plank on drugs. 
by the delegates and was not A plank on the Middle East 
amended. There was no minority favored recognition by all parties of 
plank. Mike Meissner, co-chairman Israel's right to exist and said the 
of the committee, thanked Wilson Palestinians have an equally just 
for drawing up such a complete right for a political state in the 
bill. There was applause following Palestine area. 
the vote. The bill would set up Jerusalem 
Family planning services and as a free city to be ruled by 
information would be provided to Christians, Jews and Moslems. A 
anyone, and without parental con­number of political considerations 
sent to minors, centers would be directed at the United States and 
set up in cities with a need for the the Soviet Union were also included 
services, and such services as in the bill. 
contraceptives and medical check­Meissner thanked the members 
ups would be provided free to of the committee for attending the 
persons who need them, according meetings and for contributing to 
to the plank passed by the commit-the platform. 
Fr. Hesburgh oncommittee to assist federal agencies 
by Terry Keeney Edltor·ln-Chlef 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Univer­sity president, has been appointed to a 10-member committee to advise the U.S. Departments of Labor and Health, Education and Welfare on Federal affirmative action programs for colleges and universities. 
The committee will aid the two Federal agencies in adopting work­able guidelines for the hiring of women and minorities in higher education. 
The committee was appointed by Labor Secretary John T. Dunlop, who has since resigned, and HEW Secretary F. David Mathews. It is headed by Robben Fleming, presi­dent of the University of Michigan, and includes the presidents of PJ;inceton and Harvard. 
The committee, scheduled to meet for the first time on Feb. 27 in Washington, D.C., includes three women, two of them black, one black male and one Chicano male. 
Hesburgh said that the commit­tee was formed because present guidelines, adopted by the Labor Department, are not working. The committee will bring Labor and HEW together to provide reason­able hiring requirements for wo­men and minorities in higher education. 
"I think we're all agreed we want affirmative action in the best way possible," Hesburgh said. He hopes that by bringing together the two Federal agencies the commit­tee can avoid the "Micky Mouse" of the current stringent guidelines. 
The committee is an outgrowth of hearings on affirmative action plans in higher education held last summer and fall by the Labor Department. Fr. James Bur­tchaell, University provost, in tes­timony at the Labor Department on Oct. 1, said that affirmative action standards for colleges and universi­ties were unreasonable because of the lack of trained women and minorities to meet hiring quotas. 
According to Hesburgh, the ori­ginal Labor Department guidelines were unreasonable partl~ because they were based on the same quotas as those for corporations. Hesburgh hopes that the commit­tee will tailor guidelines for affirm­ative action hiring specifically to higher education. 
Hesburgh said that, unlike cor­porations, colleges and universities must draw their faculty and staff from the pool of women and minorities receiving their doctoral degrees. Because this pool of available women and minorities is so limited, colleges and universi­ties have not met their affirmative action uidelines. 

Blacks endorse Humphrey 
The Black Caucus of the 
University of Notre Dame last 
night unanimously endorsed a 
draft of Senator Hubert H. 
Humphrey at the Mock Political 
Convention in their caucus 
meeting. 
"We believe that Humphrey 
best characterizes the position 
of Black students on this cam­
pus, and, more importantly, of 
black people in the United 
States," said members of the 
caucus in a statement released 
last night. 
The caucus alsQ stated that 
they favored the nomination of a 
black candidate at the Demo­
cratic convention, saying that 
they felt this action to be a 
"great necessity." They noted, 
however, that due to social and 
economic conditions in the U.S. 
at the present time this was not 
a viable alternative. 
Black Assemblyman Julian Bond of Georgia won the sup­port of the caucus originally. The caucus noted, however, that . Bond confirmed his intentions to seek the nomination last sum­mer, but decided to witiYiraw in 
J14ly due to a lack of finances. 
·"A realistic evaluation of the 
present conditions in our coun­
try" led the Black caucus to 
endorse Hum~hrey. accordine 
to the statemelt. 

the observer Monday, February 16, 1976 
~--News Briefs----.... 
t=========lntemational 
USSR gets main Angolian city 
[AP]--Soviet-backed troops captured the strategic Angolan city of Luso yesterday after a lengthy siege, the Yugoslav news agency Tanjug reported. 
Capture of the city consolidates the hold of the Popular Front MPLA on the Benguela railway line running from the Zaire border to the Atlantic at Lobito, Tanjug said. 
~================National 
Bailey optimistic 
LOS ANGELES--F. Lee Bailey, chief defense lawyer for Patricia Hearst, says his client would be acquitted of a federal bank robbery charge if her case went to the jury now. . . . . 
The prosecution has maintained that she was a wdhng part1c1pant in the holdup, and government witnesses have testified that she used foul language in shouting out orders during the robbery. 
Rome backs birth control 
VATICAN CITY--The Rev.· Gino Concerti, a ranking Vatican theologian, yesterday endorsed the Billings method as the latest scientific and "natural" system of birth control acceptable to the Roman Catholic Church. 
The Billings method, named after Australian researchers John and Evelyn Billings, is a biological test of ascertaining, on the basis of uterus secretion, the cycle of women. 
k4ntibusing riots 
BOSTON--Antibusing demonstrators attacked police with clubs and stones yesterday near South Boston High School, and police responded with tear gas and motorcycle and horseback charges through the crowd of about 400 persons, police said. 
Thirteen persons, including one juvenile, ~ere a~ested, a~d at least eight persons were taken to area hosp1tals w1th lacerations, officials said. 
~~--On Campus Today-.. 
1:15 p.m. workshop, john gardner, sponsored by the sopho­more literary festival, library lounge. 
7 p.m. --assertiveness training group, counseling center, fourth floor administration building. for information and registration call 1717. 
7 p.m.j--chess club meeting, rm. 227, math and computing center. 
8 p.m. --sophomore literary festival, john gardner, southern illinois university specialist in old and middle english and winner of national endowment of arts award for his poetry, library auditorium. 
8 p.m. --philosophy perspective series, "is pscyhoanalysis proof against disproof?" by dr. adolph grunbaum, prof. of philosophy, univ. of pittsburgh, galvin 
auditorium. 
ERRATUM 
Gene Harry, a member of the Black Caucus, was incorrect!~ quoted in last Friday's Observer as stating that "Ellen Minter had informed him that only eight persons were present at the meet­ing at which the Women's Caucus decided their position" on the abortion issue. Ken Hallett, a delegate from Wisconsin, made this statement. Barry stated in­stead that the Black Caucus fav­ored the pro-abortion bill. 
(*The Observerl 
Night Editor: Val Zurblis 
Asst. Night Editor: John 
Calcutt 
Layout Staff: Bob Bellissimo, 
Bill Holtsnider 
Day Editor: Kathy Mills, Bob 
Mader 
Copy Reader: Don Reimer 
Editorials: Martha Fanning 
Featues: Gregg B. Bangs 
Sports: Bill Brink 
Typists: Marianne Keefe, 
Karen Chiames, Hank Van 
I ~yke, Terri Harlan J \,Night Contro!ler: H. Halle 
The Obsenier. is published Monday through A"iday and weekly during the sumTlt!l'" session, except during the exarT6 and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students Of the lkliv. Of Notre Dllrre and St. Ml!ry's College. Subsaiptions mav be purdlased for $18 (SlO per semester) fro"ll 1M CJbMrwr, Box Q, ~ Dame. lndi-.46556. Second Class postege paid, Noire Dime, IN <46556. 
Toohey notes 'good' trend 
Are ND students more religious? 
O'Brien stated that the theology
by Tim Boyle 
Staff Reporter 
Is there a renewed religious feeling among the students of Notre Dame? The members of the campus clergy seem to think so, both in lay student participation and in seminary vocations. 
Fr. Bill Toohey, the head of Campus Ministry, said he senses a general feeling of religious commit­ment in the Notre Dame student body. Toohey notices a definite increase in attendance at services and calls this a "real sign" because attending mass "is something stu­dents are not about to do in a phony way." 
Toohey observes three other signs in addition to mass atten­dance. One he cited is a renewed interest in theology itself. Theo­logy Prof. William O'Brien said that over fifteen percent of this year's Arts and Letters seniors and 
8.6 percent of business seniors have taken more than the required number of theology courses. 
TA's given 
by Mary Rathburn Staff Reporter 
Teaching and research assistants will have their stipends increased to a base of $2,800, will be eligible for the University's Blue Cross group plan ,, and will have a new meeting room said Vice President for Advanced Studies Robert Gor­don, in a talk Thursday at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. About 40 graduate students heard the talk, sponsored by the Graduate Student Union. 
The outlook for graduate education includes a reduction in the demand for Ph. D.'s in aca­demia due to decreasing college enrollments, steady reducation of research funds and decline of all forms of financial support.. 
In spite of t,he bleak outlook for graduate. schools, "it would be absolute disaster to close them,'' said Gordon answering a question. He added that the relationship between graduate students and professors is reflected in teaching, research and the general quality of university education. 
"Federal government will turn on and off the spigot,'' Gordon said referring to research funds. He cited the "Camelot era" of 

PPEN 11 :00 A.M. -7 DAYS A WEEK 
FEBRUARY SPECIAL EVERY MONDAY & TUESDAY 
FAMILY NIGHT BUFFET ALL YOU CARE TO EAT: PIZZA-CHICKEN-SPAGHETTI MO-JO POTATOES-SALAD 
$2.40 PLUS TAX 
department just recently began keeping these statistics so there are 
no  past  figures  with  which  to  
compare.  
Toohey  also  noted  "a  real  

interest in retreats and in meetings of prayer groups in the last couple of years." The Campus Ministry has scheduled seven retreats for the remainder of the spring semes­ter. Toohey mentioned daily Charismatic prayer meetings in Cavanaugh Hall. 
Toohey added that the quiet mood on today's campus is often mistaken for apathy and docility. He prefers to think of it as ''a kind of cooperative spirit of searching and exploring." 
He concluded that though there are no radical movements as there were in the late 1960s students are still concerned with serving hum­anity. He cited the Volunteer Services and the platform of the Mock Democratic Convention as examples of social concern. University Chaplain Fr. Robert 
new benefits 
research funds which reached its peak in 1966 and dried up in 1971. Funds will still be available in health-related areas, in fields that provide services and in energy research. In other areas research funding is meager. 
Gordon pointed out that job­oriented master's degrees are going to be popular. Ph. D.'s should consider their European counterparts who, though they are scholars, do not rely on their expertise to earn a living. He cited as examples a European bank manager and a department store manager who have advanced de­grees in scholarly fields and are businessmen. Gordon plans to write a ''white paper'' to dispel the notion held by personnel managers that, ''If you have an advanced degree, you're too good for us." 
Gordon praised Margaret Grounds, president of he Graduate Student Union, for enquiring into the Blue Cross question and sug­gesting that the university acquire the warehouse at the site of the new graduate women's apartment complex. The building has been purchased, and plans are in the works for converting it into a graduate student commons. 
Griffin said he notices "greater religious awareness and practice than there was seven or eight years ago.'' He said in his trips around campus he sees a high rate of attendance at masses in womens' dorms as well as in the Keenan Hall chapel. 
An informal survey of the hall rectors reveals increased atten­dance at masses this year, particu­larly at daily services. Some rectors, while admitting this fact, wished to remain nameless be­cause they do not consider merely promoting numbers at the masses to be a concern of their ministry. 
As Toohey commented, "There are more important things than counting hosts and lighted candles at the grotto." 
Fr. Joseph Carey is head of admissions at the Moreau Semin­ary and he has observed a substan­tial increase in vocations over the past three years. There are cur­rently 83 seminarians enrolled, up fifteen from last year. Carey said the increase is the result of more college graduates enrolling in the seminary. He said that persons entering the seminary after they have graduated from college are more sure of their vocation than college underclassmen and are much less likely to drop out. Eleven of the 21 men who entered the seminary last fall are college graduates. 
Carey added that there are 30 people on campus and ten lay residents at Moreau who are considering joining the priesthood. 
"When I was in the undergrad­uate theology deparatment here at Notre Dame in 1968 and '69 there was a mood of indifference," he said. There is much more interest now." 

WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY SPECIAL 
(ONE DAY ONLY) 
ALL SEATS $ 1.00 
"HUSTLE" 
Burt Reynolds 
288-8488 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
: SPECIAL! I 
It 
: TILL NEXT 
t MONDAYt t t t t t t t t t t 
t ' t 
tt $4.29. tt t ---------t
t AND SEE TED NUGENT tI WITH STYX LIVE I.T THE : t MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM t 
AGE 10 YEARS & UNDER ONLY $.20 PER YEAR 323 E. IRELAND 291-7500 2313 EDISON RD. 289-5555 

:  SUNDAY FEB. 22nd  :  
: t  AT 8:00P.M. • RECORDS  tI  
fI  919 I College S1111re Mls..waka, l1dla1a  ff  

L----------------~ 
---------------------------------~-------------­
Monday, February 16, 1976 the observer 
NotreDame votes may determine county issues 

by Jean O'Meara Staff Reporter 
"A solid block of votes from the Notre Dame community could af­fect the student life on and off campus," said Clerk to St. Joseph County Circuit Court, W. Joseph Doran, this Friday in his office at the County Court House. "So far," 
he added,  "the voting  has  been  
apathetic."  
According  to  Cathy  Bernard,  

president of the League of Women Voters, the issues on national, state and local levels will be determined by the active interest and concern of the constituents before the primaries. 
The actual turnout in the Nov. S, 1974 election revealed 961 voted from a total of 2,097 registered voters in the Notre Dame commun­ity. Corinne Wroblewski, in charge of Voters' Registration in St. Joseph County, attributes this margin to the general apathy of all voters after Watergate and to the transient character of Notre Dame life. 
The students may register here but soc,n become so involved in 
Unusual weather plagues WWW 
by Lisa Morel Staff Reporter 
Plans for the 2nd annual "Wacky Winter Weekend" scheduled to take place this Friday and Satur­day, February 20 and 21 in cooper­ation with the Notre Dame and St. Mary's Social Commissions are still under way, even though the weather isn't cooperating. 
It seems to be a tradition for the Wacky Winter Weekend to have unusual weather. "Last year we wanted snow and we got rain--this year we wanted cold weather conditions, and instead we are getting warm weather," explains John Rooney, Wacky Winter Weekend chairman. He adds, "Maybe we should change the name to Wacky 'Weather' Week­end! But as for me, I would just as soon see the weather stay warm so more people will come out and have a good time." 
Molly McKenna, St. Mary's Social Commissioner is in charge of Friday's activities which will begin with a Happy Hour at Kubiaks from 3-6:00 p.m., sponsored by the 
Hartke prediets Ford to lose 
INDIANAPOUS (AP) --U. S. Sen. Vance Hartke, D-Ind., pre­dicts President Ford will lose his bid for the Republican presidential nomination. 
Ford's performance in the first five presidential primaries will be the key to his campaign for the GOP nomination, Hartke told the Democratic Women's Club here Saturday. But if he falters in those crucial tests, Hartke warned Ford's campaign might not be able to recover. 
The primaries cited by Hartke include New Hampshire, Feb. 24; Massachusetts, March 2; Florida, March 9; Illinois, March 18; and North Carolina, March 23. 
Hartke said Ford's campaign is feeling increased pressure from former California Gov. Ronald Reagan, adding that the President shouldn't overlook a challenge from Vice President Nelson Rock­efeller. 
0-C rep needed 
Anyone who is presently living off-campus or definitely planning to move off next year and who wishes to run for Off-Campus Student Life Council Representa­tive should pick up a petition at the Student Government Offices be­tween 12 and 1 p.m. today through Wednesday. Petitions are due Wednesday night at 6 p.m. For further information contact Pete Gottsacker at 272-6930. 
their university life, they aren't aware of what is happening in St. Joseph's County or in Indiana. This is really their adopted state, she added. 
Wroblewski, however, doesn't encourage out-of-state students to register and vote in Indiana. "Many young people are not aware that any student receiving funds from their home-state may jeopar­dize any financial aid if they register in Indiana." 
Brother John Lavelle, Democrat­ic Precinct Committeeman of Dis­trict I on the Notre Dame campus, revealed that in the May primary preceding the election in November of 1974, only ISO voted out of the 2,097 total. 
''This sounds very discouraging until you realize the students are on their way home after taking exams and getting ready to work for the summer," Lavelle concluded. 
Wroblewski emphasized that the May election would include the presidential primaries. Other pri­maries on the slate will be Gover­nor, Lt. Governor, U.S. Senator, Congressman, two State Senators, two County Commissioners, four 
junior class. Also, depending on the weather there will be ice-skat­ing on Lake Marion and tobaggan­ing behind Regina Hall. 
The rest of Friday's activities will take place in LaFortune. The ballroom upstairs will be redecor­ated to the effect of a discoteque, and will be the scene of the disco-dance held from 9-1:00 a.m. 
A dance contest will be held with the winners receiving prizes. WSND will broadcast live from the dance, and the sound system is Mcintosh Equipment, donated by The Sound Room. Downstairs the lounge will be open for people to sit, and relax and socialize. 
Activities will resume Saturday at l2 p.m. with hot dogs and hot chocolate being served in Holy Cross Hall. There will be an extra shuttle bus running, beginning at 
11:30 a.m. 
At 1 p.m. ND and SMC vs. the Off-Campus guys in a hockey game. At 1:40p.m. there will be an ice cream eating contest with one person from each hall competing in a race to eat a half-gallon of ice cream. 
Beginning at 2:00p.m. will be a bunny-hop, 2:20 p.m. a ski-race, and at 2:30 the egg-toss will begin. 
A basketball race will begin at 3 
p.m. with the dog sled (or wagon) race beginning at 3:15 p.m. 
Four males assault couple 
by Frank Tennant Staff Reporter 
A Notre Dame law student and his date were assaulted early Saturday morning outside gate 10 of the ACC. William Sparks and his date were attacked while leaving the Lewis Formal, by four males at approximately 1:15 a.m. 
Sparks, a second year law stu­dent, described the robbers as four well-dressed young blacks, about 18 years old. The assailants took his wallet with $50 in it. He said they assaulted him as he opened the driver side of the car after he let his date in the passenger side. 
County Councilmen. The slates will be completed by March lS and by that time the issues on all of these 
levels  will  be  made  into party  
platforms.  
The  issues  which  affect  the  

quality of student life at Notre Dame have been fought for through representatives and St. Joseph County committee members, La­velle said, but "the man who carries your banner doesn't always win the day." 
The most recent disappointment concerned the famous House Bill 1818 which would have lowered the drinking age to 18. Both State representatives, backed by ND students, Richard Bodine (D) and Robert DuComb (R), supported the Bill. Yet in March 197S, the Bill 1818 was killed by House Chairman Chester F. Dovis, who decided not to hold a vote. 
At that time Student Body Pres­ident, Pat McLaughlin, stated in the Observer, March 7, 197S, "It's going to be introduced every year until the damned thing gets through." 
Other issues of immediate con­cern to students are handled by St. 
Immediately following will be Snow Bowl '76 which will feature a football game between interhall football champions, Keenan and Pangborn. 
Ending the weekend on a high note will be a concert by Robert Klein, a nationally famous comedi­an. The concert will be held at 
Stepan Center at 8 p.m. and the price will be $2 per person. Ticket sales will be announced later in the week. 
Also, throughout the week will 
be a contest run by Kevin Saddler 
to guess the whereabouts of the 
"Wacky Wabbitt". Clues will be 
given throughout the day on WSND 
and also in the Observer's personal 
ads. The person who guesses the 
location at the disco-dance Friday 
night will win a prize of $100. 
If anyone is interested in joining 
any of these activities, they are 
urged to see their hall representa­
tives or get in touch with the 
following people: Disco-dance-­
Molly McKenna (4600), Saturday's 
activities--Nancy Budds (1333) or 
Cori Ching (1298). 
"We hope everybody will come 
out and enjoy the nice weather 'and 
have a good time,'' comments 
Molly McKenna, "it'll be a big and 
exciting weekend to fill the gap 
between Mardi Gras and An Tos­
tal." 
The incident occurred in the 
lighted parking lot about SO yards 
from gate 10. After beating Sparks 
and his date, the assailants fled 
south on Juniper Road on foot. 
Sparks said he could not catch any 
of them. 
Sparks said they received only minor injuries. He suffered abras­ions on his forehead and a few cuts. One attacker hit his date as she pushed her way out of the car and ran for help. 
Sparks doubted if he could identify the assailants and specu­lated they were not students. 
Notre Dame Security said they were not authorized to release any information concerning the inci­·def!t. 
Joseph County Council members, presently represented by Walter Mucha (District B: ND and SM campuses) and Tom Catanzarite (District G: off-campus students). These men can affect laws on burglaries, road funding, recrea­tion development (St. Patrick's • Farm) and the County Airport. 
On a broader level, the League of Women Voters is preparing ques­tions for all candidates which they, as a group, think should be included in the party platforms. President of the League, Barnard, mentioned a few of the concerns. On the national level, Barnard thinks the Equal Rights Amend­ment must be dealt with. "It should not be reduced to ERA or Right to Life," she stressed. "One does not exclude the other." Federal funding for the survival of the South Shore Line should be asked of Senator Hartke, Barnard said. 
Those representing the State levels must be confronted with their position on: revised Penal Code, Pari-mutuel betting, the phosphate ban, stated .tlarnard. 
Notre Dame students, she is convinced, should pursue the cand­idates with their questions and convictions. In this way, they could affect the party platforms before the primaries. 
COUL to distribute social life questionnaire Tuesday 
By James Flahaven Staff Reporter 
Co-educational housing, student drinking habits, and social space will be the topics of aquestionnaire to be distributed by the Committee of Undergraduate Life (COUL) on Tuesday. SLC representative Ed Van Tassel, who heads the project, .said,' 'This will be the first real indicator we will have on the social atmosphere at Notre Dame." 
The questionaires, which will be distributed randomly to some 1200 students by the hall presidents, deal with various facets of the three topics. 
In the area of co-educational housing, students will be asked if they favor co-ed dorms, if they would live in such a dorm, and other questions concerning the effect of such dorms on the University. According to Van Tassel even with favorable re­sponse on co-ed dorms, it could be 
some time before they would be implemented. "Even if they are 100 per cent for it I don't think next year would be realistic. I think it would be at least the year after that," said Van Tassel. 
Questions on drinking habits will center on the student's weekly 
JULIO'S 
NOW HAS 
PAN 
PIZZA!!! 
PHONE 232-7919 
consumption and reasons for drink­ing. "There has been a Jot of interest in this, this year", said Van Tassel. "And since we were distributing the questionaire I thought we could include some different questions that would be of interest to people concerned with social life at Notre Dame." 
Also included will be questions on the student's views on neutral or social space. Ideas for new social gathering areas, and suggestions on how to better the already existing areas will be sought. 
~···········~· 
r_.·-!here IS a ••• : difference!!! ~ 
:,.,..lOt : 
Owef :K ,.... ••
• MCAT ........._, 
: DAT IM~CIII : 
: LSAT :
SlllillclltMt 
YOIVtiiiMUI .....
•. GRE • ••
: GMAT ,,.,., "'.,.,,.,, : : OCAT Coun:.l~lllrt : 
: CpAT 'on'':"' .,.,,. : 
• VAT 
r.,. IKolihu Ia< :
. .......,.,'"" .
: SAT ltnon• and lor Ult • 
• FLEX ••
• or'""'""''"''"'
n111rro111 
: ECFMG ..,•• :,,or : 
: niiiiH l1110n1 : 
: NAT'l MED BDS : 
: !'J~ T'L.D~~T.B~S.: 
• Most clatMI ltar, 8 weekt • • proor ro E..m • e Sprong & Foil compacu • : Somo cour,.1 ollerod on : 
• MIJOI Campu,., e 
: INDIANAPOLIS : 
• 6620 GrHnah"e Drovo e e lndoanapolll, lnd 48220 e • 13171 842-1287 •
: .........: 
e CHICAGO CENTER e • (3121 764-5151 • 
=M-«!:
~ !!IOHAL CIN! i 
,.,, ....~ .....,.a-• ~ ...COAUSIS &IWf •I» : 
-~:;-,.-: .'":7j
•·~""~,... "' .....,. v' '='''" 
DICK'S STANDARD SERVICE 1102 SO. BEND A VB. (ACROSS FROM BRIDGET MCGUIRES) PHONE 234-0707  FEBRUARY SPECIAL FREE LUBRICATION WITH OIL AND FILTER CHANGE  

Are You Graduating Soon? 
* 
Are You Eligible to Teach in High School? 

* 
Are You Willing to Help Young People Through Education? 


We Are The Christian Brothers
* We Are a Roman Catholic Religious Order of Teaching Brothers 
We Have a Live-In Program for You 
* 
You Will Become Actively Involved with Us: --In Our Living of Community --In Our Educational Service 

* 
You Will Have an Excellent Opportunity to See if Religious 


Life Is for You.  BROTHER  LAWRENCE  PORRETIA. F.S.C.  
Write  or  Call for  More  Director of Vocation•  
Information:  200 De La Salle  Drive  
GIVE  IT  A  TRY!!  Lockport, lllinoi& 60441 (815) 838-8900 -Ex. 68  

response~~~~~~~~ 
Angola's
*1.~d.Q!:2,~~rver
Founded November 3, 1966 
•1n 

The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­mentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, cartoons and regular columns express the views of their authors. Columnjspace is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Editorial~: 283-UIS News: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Business Manager Tnm Modglin Advertising Manager Tom Whelan 
EDITORIAL BOARD Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief AI Rutherford Managing Editor 
Africa
Jim Eider Executive Editor Pl!t Hanifin Editorial Editor Bob Mader News Editor 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii_.ed ward s m a II 
Maureen Rynn C~us Editor Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor 
Ken Bradford Copy Editor Val Zurblis Wire Editor Tom O'Neil Features Editor 
Bill Brink Sports Editor Dan $anchez Senior Night Editor 
Monday, February 16, 1976 
What Was Not Said 
Last Thursday's Town Meeting was interesting as much for what was not said as for what was said. 
The rreeting brought out the ideals of the panelists about what Notre Dame should become. From Fr. Hesburgh's notion of Notre Dame as a "caring community" to Prof. Peter Walshe's plan for an egalitarian university, the panelists discussed a Notre Dame that seemed at tirres fictional. 
Beneath the rhetoric, serious questions were raised about the future of this place, including how it is governed and how students and faculty are treated in the ''COilJOrate structure'' of the University. These questions went unanswered throughout the session. 
What was not said was why the University adheres to a policy of "in loco parentis" under which the University claims to be a sUITOgate parent Ed Byrne correctly observed that philoso­phically "in loco parentis" is a poor way of treating anyone past adolescence. Ironically, the Notre Dame Commencemmt speaker last May said the same thing. 
What was not said was whether the University system of governance is appropriate and worldng. Beneath the disucssion about refonning the COilJO:r­ate structure lies a dissatisfaction with the cwrent representative bodies on this campus --the SLC, Faculty Senate and the Academic Council. Prof. Paul Conway never had the chance to discuss the proposal from the Arrerican Association of Universi­ty Professors on University Governance. 
What was not said was why parietal hours cannot be further extended. Fr. Hesburgh argued that the Board of Trustees probably would not want to discuss the issue which it has considered four tirres in the last six years. There was no discussion about the PUilJOSe of parietals. Do parietals exist as a mechanism for privacy, as Diane Merten argued, or as a means of enforcing the University sexuality 
code? 
Undoubtedly, some good things emerged from the Town Meeting. It brought together students, faculty and admini:strators to discuss both ideals and grievances. It provided a clarification of the University's alcohol policy and the admini:stration's hopes to build a campus pub if Indiana ever approves an 18-yea:r-old drinking age. It also gave Brother Just Paczesny the chance to ''show and tell" University plans for I.aFbrtune. 
Ed Byrne and Student Governmmt had a good idea to hold the Town Meeting. Yet whether the Meeting fulfilled its PUilJOSe is another matter. Many of the serious questions were not answered. Fr. Hesburgh's remark that the University's problems are small compared with world problems of injustice and hunger is obviously true, but that is no excuse for minimizing the serious and legitimate grievances of persons in the University community. 
The Town Meeting may have been long on lofty ideals, but it was short on practical issues. 
1aughing boy !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Modern Philosophy Explained 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiijohn zygm unt 
Chapter Seven: The Work of -Celmar Marcel (1880-1957) 
Part One 
Marcel originally studied to ­become a priest, a decision largely motivated by a vision he had when he was seven. In it, the ;Virgin Mary appeared to Marcel telling him he must warn the world to turn away from double-knit suits. She also promised she would re-appear in 1925 and tell Marcel a good spot to open a McDonalds, but this never occurred ... Hours before his ordination as a priest, however, Marcel was asked to leave the monastery for making immoral advances towards a piece of French toast, 
Undaunted, Marcel left to go to 
the Academie in Paris to study philosophy. It was at the Academie that Marcel met one of his closest friends the famous philosopher Bertrand Humus (Humus' father had named him after Bertrand Russell, something Humus never understood since at the time Ber­trand Russell hadn't been born). Humus was not only a brilliant logician, he was one of the few people in the worfd who could talk about Marcel and keep a straight face. He was a rather tragic figure who worked all his life on a proof ofGod's existence. However, the closest he could get was a recipe for 
Welsh. Rarebit 
Upon leaving the Academie in 1905, Marcel finished an essay so controversial he could not find a publisher, although several copies were distributed in specially mar­ked boxes of Kellog's Sugar Frost­ed Flakes. The new work sug­gested that Descartes created Cartesian Dualism in the hope he could file separate tax returns. When the book finally appeared all Paris was in an uproar and for days people refused to eat yogurt. Eventually, however, the work became well accepted and Marcel was awarded the "Le Guard de 
France", a medal he later returned as part of the world wide protest when New Jersey tried to make mayonnaise their state bird 
It was soon after this initial success that Marcel had his first strange dream. In the dream Marcel is standin by the ocean's 
DOONESBURY 

edge when a giant lobster comes out of the water and begins carving the Chinese alphabet on his fore­head. Jung thought this sympt­omatic of a lifetime of epistomo­logical and cosmological inquiry, while Freud thought it was prob­ably something he ate. Marcel eventually stopped having the dream but he still always carried with him a bottle of seafood sauce. 
Next Week: Part Two traces the last thirty years of Marcel's life both his successes and setbacks: He fails to win the Nobel Prize but his monumental work "Prolegom­ena to Logical Positivism" is turned into a popular TVgame
show. 

Since the U.S. House of Representatives' vote to curtail all aid to Angola, a commentary and a letter have appeared in the 
Observer favoring military intervention. The authors bemoan the fact that the Congress has shirked its responsibilities to support the pro-Western forces and to protect our long-range economic and strategic interests. In groping for reasons to intervene, the authors overlook information pertinent to an adequate evaluation of the conflict. In attempting to draw out the "right" history lesson from, of all places, Vietnam, they studiously ignore the past twenty-five years of African history. 
While an historical perspective is essential, Americans nonethe­less tend to ignore history. The present administration's assessment of Angola and past administrations' conceptions of Vietnam are really quite 'similar, in that they have consistantly displayed a profound disregard for the historical trends in those areas. The author of the letter, in trying to justify intervention, stresses that Angola is different from Vietnam because the two pro-western factions apparently carry considerable popular support. Though this isolated fact is true, I find the overall argument insufficient because, again, it fails to put the conflict within the framework of political developments on the African continent. 
In the past two decades over two dozen African states have been liberated from their European colonizers. To prime their unstable economies, and to protect themselves from possible aggression of neighboring nations, these struggling states have accepted aid and arms from almost anyone. Many maintain trade relations simulataneously with the West, China, Russia, and African countries as well. While foreign assistence plays an important role in their development, it is overly simplistic and unwarranted to assume that these African states who recently fought so hard for independence will somehow fall prey to foreign dominance. 
Besides, there are numerous indications which also tend to weaken the pro-interventionist stance concerning the fate of Angola. Sino-~oviet jockeying tor position on the continent has alienated a number of African leaders. Tanzania, which has received Russian arms and Chinese technical assistance, retains a great independence admired by most African leaders. Kenya cracked down on Sino-Soviet sentiment within its government. Zaire (formerly the Congo) saw a contingent of Cubans in the President's personal militia in 1966. They were expelled in 1968. The Sudan stopped exporting Soviet arms to rebels in the Congo. These, along with the widely publicized Egyptian rejection of the Russians, are perhaps the most prominent examples in the current trend to assert nationalism. 
Perhaps it is in the somewhat waning spirit of the current ''Fifties Revival" that the author of the commentary chose to resurrect the "Domino Theory". This alarmist viewpoint has been over-used unsuccessfully to the point of being intellectually threadbare. Particularly in instances where newly liberated countries have accepted aid and arms from Russia, alarmists in the West have cried out that the country in question would be the first Russian satellite on the continent--as they mourned the fate of Guinea in 1958, of Zanzibar in 1963, and of the Congo in 1966. In their eyes, these and other countries were destined to become centers for subversion to overrun the rest of the continent. Their judgements were simplistic and premature. In the past twenty years, the Russians have failed, except in Somalia, to gain significant influence on the continent. 
That communist revolutions in one country will promote more communist revolutions worldwide is a very limited outlook. It is highly unlikely that the fate of a few million Vietnamese peasants has had any profound effect upon the political persuasions of some rival Angolan tribes. Revolutions will occur wherever local conditions warrant; to attempt to causally relate that to political movements elsewhere lays bare the shallowness of perceiving the world through an obsolete, Cold War, mentality. 
In a recent visit to a Notre Dame government course, a top Air Force advisor, whose field of expertise is Angola and Uganda, lucidly remarked that the worst thing we can do to the Russians is to let them win in Angola. He felt that the communist backed MPLA forces would win, but hastened to add that they would probably be expelled in the not too distant future, following the pattern of recent African history which has displayed a decided aversion towards Russian domineering. 
It seems rather obvious to this author that heavy expenditures by the United States in the virtually unformed African state of Angola is an investment against the grain of history and would be sheer folly. 
by Garry Trudeau 

~onday, February 16, 1976 the observer 
!soph lit fest 1 
John Gardner: "I thought I was going to die tragically young" 

The Sophomore Literary Festival will present John Gardner. a noted American novelist, critic, poet, scholar, and medie­valist. tonight at 8 P.M. in the Library Auditorium. 
The New York Times proclaimed Gard­ner as "a major American writer whose promise for the future seems unlimited." Critics have acclaimed Gardner as a writer with rare brilliant imagination and power and h<>· et :!mired his "Homeric vitality."
(,'c}.t.~er was born in 1933 in Batavia, New York. He obtained his bachelor's degree from Washington University at St. Louis in I%4 and received his masters and Ph.D. degrees at the State University of Iowa. 


Of his early life, Gardner writes, • • I grew up on a farm and wrote poems, novels, and plays on the typewriter in my grand­mother's law office and under the tractor in :he back lot when I was supposed to be >lowing. Went to DePauw University, 
vhere I thought I was a chemist; left after 
J faculty publications '] 
two years and went to Washington University in St. Louis where I thought I was a great poet and was going to die tragically young. went to the State University of Iowa where I worked hard and wrote worse than in my childhood. Became, by accident, a medievalist." 
Gardner has taught creative writing and medieval literature at Oberlin College, Chico State College( Chico, California), San Francisco State, Southern Illinois Univers­ity and Bennington College (Vermont). 
Gardner has written several textbooks and six novels; his articles of short fiction and poetry have appeared in many journals. Gardner is co-author of The Forms of Fiction (1961); he has also written 
modernizations of The Complete Works of GawaJn-Poet(1965) and The Alliterative Morte Arthure')1971) along with The 
Constitution of the Wakefield Cycle(1974) and Dragon,Dragon and Other Tales( 1975) His novels are Nickel MountaJn(1963), The Resurrection (1966), The Wreckage of 
Anglo-Saxon Poetr!f·· 
tribute to a retired Medieual scholar 
One of latest faculty publications by the University of Notre Dame Press has been a volume of critical essays on Anglo-Saxon Poetry edited by Lewis Nicholson and Dolores Warwick Frese. It contains 25 pieces of criticism and interpretation "created and collected in honor of John C. McGalliard on the occasion of his retire­ment from the University of Iowa after a distinguished career as a scholar-teacher of medieval literatures.'' 
The collection reflects important con­temporary interpretations of the Old English Classics and shows evidence of extensive and ambitious groundwork by Nicholson and Frese. Their, efforts, however, have proved professionally suc­cessful. It is appropriate and exciting tribute to a man so reknowned in the field of Anglo-Saxonism. and an excellent overall view of contemporary and even conventional Anglo-Saxon interpretation. 
Of the 25 essays on Anglo-Saxon poetry in this critical cornucopia, the first five deal exclusively with Beowulf criticism. The first of these is by Norman Eliason, a who moves to resolve the long debate over the appellation of Healfdene's daughter in line 62 of Beowulf and the presumed 
thomas o'neil 
naming of her husband (commonly accept­ed to be Onela) in the same line. 
This essay by Eliason resolves the battle by attacking the basic presupposition that either of the two were named at all. It suffices, he believes, to assume they are not named(in particular, Healfdene's daughter), a belief which is consistent with the poet's delivery in other places through­out the poem and one which should console the literary gluttons who believe, because of this peripferal ambiguity, that they are missing a major piece of the poetic pie. 
The second essay is written by John Gardner, the accidental Medievalist who is appearing tonight in the Library Aud­itorium as a guest speaker of the Sopho­more Literary Festival. In his essay "Guilt and the World's Complexity" he suggests that Beowulf may somehow be myster­iously and indirectly responsible for the murder of Ongentheow by illustration and parallel between the "Old Swedish King and the flame-spewing dragon." Blood­drenched as Beowulf's hands are by the end of the poem, Gardner nonetheless feels content with indirectly blaming Beowulf with yet another death, and further allows his imagination to relate expired majesty with hideous monstrosity. But he does so without malicious intent. 
Agathon(1970), Grendel (1971), Tbe Sun­
Ught Dlalogues(1972), and Jason and 
Medela( 1973). 
Gardner's awards include the National 
Endowment of the Arts Award, Woordow 
Wilson Fellowship, Danforth Fellowship, 
and Guggenheim Fellowship for creative 
writing in fiction. 
Nickel MountaJn is both a religious and a 
love story, a story of Henry Starnes, a 
middle-aged man who runs a diner, and 
the girl he marries. In a Catskill mountain 
setting, ,Gardner tells what they meant to 
each other throughout the various states 
and the ups and downs of their lives. 
Critics say that Nickel MountaJn "seeks to 
celebrate what is best in humanness, the 
gift by which in our best moments we counter cosmic indifference and disorder, the love all human beings can sometimes feel for all that lives." In Time, Timothy Foote compares Nickel MountaJn to The Sunlight Dlalogui.J in the following man­ner: "If The Sunlight Dialogues was masterful in its paced switches from cops to robbers, philpsophers to magicians, bureaucrats to babblers, and if Gardner was proud to charm his snakey topic with every riff he knes, Nickel MountaJn is very different. Until the key scene in the new novel, Gardner modestly hides those riffs by giving characher a stolid life of its own and meaning anunchaperoned vulnerabili­
ty. 
Spring provides the background for The Resurrection, a book in which the main character, Professor James Chandler, moves his family back to Batavia, New York, his childhood home. "he has returned home to make peace with his past because a ruddy-faced doctor in California has put a limit on his future; an immutable deadline on knowing, on loving. There is little time. But as the ironies of fate conspire with the demands of ~rtality, ends forge beginnings-and death becomes a prelude to life.'' After the release of The Resurrection, Tbe New York Times :Book Review called Gardner a "philosophica-l novelist, concerned with conflicts of mind within a physical world." 
Agathon, the Seer, and Demopdakus, his disciple( the Peeker), tell The Wreckage of Agathon; these two narrators share a prison cell in ancient Sparta ruled by 
dauid beno 
tyrannous Lykowrgos. · 'Agathon, horny, foul-smelling, lame, mocks the world, its philosophical systems, its political virtues and his own vital history. Their prison cell is as much a metaphor as Sartre's in "No Exit". But it is more than that: it is a 'real' place, with corners, four walls, slop on the floor. 
Grendel can be considered a version of Beowuld which is written from the point of view of the title monster. Grendel is described as "warm, friendly, and compas­sionate ... a kind of Medieval King Kong." The National Observer asks the question, "Who's so funny? At times you may laugh at this 'pointless, ridiculous monster. crouched in the shadows, stinking of dean men, murdered children and martyured cows.' But with only slight introspection you will discover your laughter is directed not at Grendel, but at all mankind." 
Having been included on the New York Times Bestseller List for 14 weeks, The Sunlight Dialogues is considered a major American novel. The story takes place in Batavia,(upstate) New York (Gardner's own birthplace). 
In the epic poem Jason and Medela, one of Gardner's greatest accomplishments, 
Gardner retells-the famous  myth of the  
same  name.  Jason-the  hero- is  a  
Westerner,  an  intellectual,  a  politician,  

grakdson of death, while Medeia-who is in love with Jason-is a Easterner, passionate, and intuitive, a granddaughter of the Sun. 
Gardner presents the • 'first detailed nd complete analysis" of the Wakefield pageant cycle in The Construction of the Wakefield Cycle; he celebrates the beauty of the cycle as a work of art and theorizes that it might have been developed by just one man-the Wakefield Master. 
Dragon, Dragon, and Other Tales, Gardner's latest book, is his first volume of tales for younger readers. Four suspense­ful fairy tales, sull of witches and dragons, in which Gardner combines the new and the traditional with a "slyly humorous, contemporary flare,'' comprise this collec­tion. 
Critics have widely .acclaimed Gardner's "reverence for ancient forms and perma­nent truths" and have labeled his "a man with a message." John Gardner brings that message to Notre Dame tonight. 

His suggestion is an academic one, and for Beowulf scholars, another important part of Beowulf's intricate interlace. 
Lewis Nicholson's own essay on Beowulf concludes the first section with an essay entitled "Hunlafing and the Point of the Sword'' in which he suggests that Hunlaf­ing is actually Hunferth. The implication and suggestion we are to draw from that is "then Hunferth's gift of a sword to Beowulf ... may be the same sword that was used at Finns burgh to_ kill brothers." Therefore the sword, being fratricidal and thus a weapon of personal betrayals, fails Beowulf in his fight against Grendel. This suggestion has further important implica­tions and, if true, illustrates more drama­tically the calculated genius behind Beo­wulf's extraordinary quality of interweave. 
The first section on "Secular Heroic Poetry" is followed by sections of criticism on "Religious Heroic Poetry", "The Lyric Tradition," "Biblical Narative," "The Runic Tradition," and "Wisdom Litera­ture." An essay by Dolores Frese is included under "The Runic Tradition" and invloves as the title ("The Art of Cynewulf Runic Signatures") infers, a discussing of Cynewulf's masked identity in his work. 
The list ot other contributors to the edition is impressive and particularly awesome. Some of the most outstanding names in the study of Anglo-Saxon Poetry are included here, and given voice to propose new interpretations etc of the Old English Masterpieces which continue to entertain us today. And all in honor of a patriarch of Medieval study who is ·still alive, although retired from professional life, and who has deservedly received the respect of his students and the homage this volume offers him. 
6 the observer Monday, February 16, "f'J-76 
~~~~··:s=;•:•:.:•:•:•;o<.;..;.·,.;.;.;.··:-:•··o:.::.;,.~~-.,-·-·::.xo:.,._..-~"""···-,---.--.-.---.-.-··········· ..... .
. . .. ~-. ············'·""-~"'-~·-·""-·-·~".x. ~~..w~~::'..«::::«:*-m>.:~~>.:*:::!li:::::::!::;:::::;::::::::!:::::::i::::::•:•:!i•:•:•:•:•:•:•;o:•:•:•:•:·:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:·:·:·:·:.:•i8i:;·-·~··.-.·.·:;:··········
Ir ould a 
........ ·····---.·~ .w· ~Al 
~~ ::;:;
I ~;: 
~ ~ 
~ ~
. 

~== ~ i
1 or p a.o ~ , 1 
IInterestYou? I 
IAn Opportunity for 450 AChallengingJob I 
~ Highly Qualified Sophomores Upon graduation, you are commissioned as i ~ If you're the kind of person we're looking an Officer in the U.S. Navy. And from then on ~ :;1;: for, you've already started to think about what your career can take you anywhere in the world, ~l;l :~~~: you'd like to do after graduation. in a variety of fulfilling jobs. ~~ll :~~~: If a scholarship leading to a career as an Those who apply for the NPCS Program ~~~l ~ Officer in the U.S. Navy appeals to you, you'll find have a particular challenge ahead of them: The i l~~ this message well worth reading. Navy's Nuclear Power Program. Not everyone ~~l~ 
.. who applies makes it: the men in charge of ·· 
f!_;_l_·. :.i._r_[.l_
Two-Year full Scholarships more than two thirds of our country's nuclear 
. reactors must be a very special breed. Final ~ The opportunity is very attractive. If you're acceptance into the Navy's Nuclear Power ~ ~1~ selected, we'll provide full tuition during your Program is determined during your Senior year ~11i ~~1 Junior and Senior years, pay for your books and after an interview in Washington with the :~~1: ll1~ educational fees, and give you $100 a month for Director, Division of Naval Reactors. !~l! 
11~110 months each year to help cover your living A two-year scholarship worth up to $10,000. :~;~: :;:~ expenses. A unique opportunity to serve as an Officer in the :;~~ lll There are two different programs you can U.S. Navy. You'll want to act now. The deadline !~~ l~~l apply for. The first is the Nuclear Propulsion for acceptance is May 1, 1976-and once the !~~ 1~~~ Candidate Scholarship Program (NPCS). To quotas are filled, you'll have lost your chance to ~1~~ 1111 qualify, you must have one semester each of earn yourself a scholarship. ~~~~ \1l calculus and physics (or two semesters of If you think you've got what it takes to l~~ ~~ calculus) and have a B-minus average or better. qualify, fill out and mail the coupon below, contact ~~l ~~ It is open to men only. either your local Naval Recruiting District or the 1~l ~1~ The other program is the Two-year NROTC Professor of Naval Science on your campus, or l~ll i Scholarship Program. The only difference in the call800-841-8000, toll-free, anytime. 1111 
~~1 qualifications is that you must have a C average ~ Jhe-..,:.:..------------;1s~l 
11l1 
~~~ (2.3 out of 4.0) or better. It is open to men and IW&Y~ ~~~l ~~ women. I MAIL TO: Capt. H.C. Atwood, Jr., U.S. Navy I ~~;~ ll§ For both programs, you'll need to pass Navy I ~-~~~::~~TUNITY INFORMATION CENTER I l~ll 1~j qualification tests. And, quite frankly, it will help I Pelham Manor, N.Y. 10803 1 llll 
ij 
l'l" if your major is math, physical science, • • or I Dear Sir: I am a College Sophomore. Please send me more information on I llll···· i~ engineenng. I the two-year scholarships available. 1 am interested primarily in: I ~ ..·: I 0 ~wo-ye~r NROTC Scholarship Programs »­mThe Curriculum I i
(tncludmg nuclear option). (OK) ~;l 1 0 General NROTC information. (0T) I ~ 
~ Mter Y?ll:'re accepted, you begin with six I NAME (Print) ~~~· 1 ~ ~ weeks of trrurung next summer at the Naval 1 STREET I ~=:
last 
~ Science Institute at Newport, R.I. During your 1 CITY_ STAT I ~ 1final ~wo years of_college, yout~ke several 1 ZIP DATE OF BIRTH I 111l ~ re9uired courses In math, physics, and Naval I PHONE(_) I ~~ll 1 Science. You also go on a summer cruise prior to rtl COLLEG rn GRAD. DATE lll~ 
•"' your Senior year. (Of course, you're paid for all I rOl ACADEMIC AVERAGE [~l MAJO I ~1~1 your summer duty.) I D I don't want to wait. Call me at the number above. (¢K) I ~l~l 1 If you prefer, you can call us toll-free at 800-841-8000. In Georgia, call I :;:~ 800-342-5855. In Alaska, call collect-272-9133. ;:;~
I The Observer J ~~~ L.. University of Notre Dame ;;:; 
W~Afi.JI');Q.{{{.-l,"l,:m~~;:;::t;Z.~::::*;:"I,~l;m?.?:.W.:-7A?H2U»¥/.R»".n-.-;,-.u;,;,;,nm;un•;~ ~ ...-;,..-•. ···-;-.--.-.-7-....;;::.,.::;:;:..~--":':':": ..=..":"":':.---• • ---~;JV.•.·-·-·-·-···-·····-·.-.·.·-·-·.1'-•.•!•!•!•!·!·!·!·!·!·!·!·!·!· ------....!.'!.·!·!·~«.;'St;. ...J :::~ 
.~..-x-~..-n;r.-:«·.~·:::-!·~~..!!!·~~!·!·!'!.~~.!~!·~!·!•!•!•!-=!:!::::~::~:::~:::~::::>.!~?.:!:!!!~!:!:!:~:·:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:!:~·=~=·8::!8:;-~·····················~·.·.·.-~·~··················································. -~=·:
•.. •.. .. .. .. .. .. .. • 


Monday, February 16, 1976 the observer 
.. 
Hearst jury to visit SLA crime scenes, hideouts 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Mem­bers of the jury in the Patricia Hearst bank robbery trial prepared for a guided tour Monday of some places they have heard the defen­dant describe from the witness stand. But it was not certain whether the scene of the crime would be available for inspection because of the George Washington birthday holiday. 
Defense and prosecution attor­neys and U.S. District Court Judge Oliver J. Carter were scheduled to the SLA rob in April 1974 will be closed Monday, and bank officials had not said whether they would open it for court inspection. 
The trial was scheduled to re­sume Tuesday, and chief defense 
lawyer  F. Lee  Bailey  said  Miss  
Hearst  would  be  back  on  the  
witness  stand  to  conclude  her  
testimony.  

In an interview on ABC's "Is­sues and 1 Answers " broadcast Sunday, Bailey said that if the case group kidnapped her on Feb. 4, 1974, and the time the robbery took place about 10 weeks later. 
The prosecution has maintained that Miss Hearst was a willing participant in the robbery, but Bailey has said she was forced to help SLA "soldiers" in the holdup under a death threat. 
He said he would try to introduce evidence from lie detector tests to "show the objactive facts about her belief that first, she was under a constant fear of death, and second, she was told if she messed up in films of the robbery to laboratories for examination and those studies showed "that what appeared to be a smile on her face was really something quite different." 
the  bank,  she  would  be  shot  
immediately.''  
Bailey  said  he  had  sent  bank  

He said blowups of the T1ims aiso show that Miss Hearst spoke only the word •'Tania,'' the name she used in SLA communiques he says she was forced to record, during the holdup. A prosecution witness had testified that Miss Hearst shouted out orders in foul language during the holfup. 
Defense experts on brainwash­ing will testify after Miss Hearst leaves the stand, Bailey said. But he said it is not essential to his case to establish that his client was ~rainwashed into accepting SLA ideology and rejecting her family. 
In another development in the case, am 878-page transcript of the five-day closed-door jury selection process was made available for the news media to purchase during the weekend. 
accompany the jury on a tour of were to go to the jury now, Miss Daly City and San Francisco apart­Hearst would be acquitted of the ments where Miss Hearst testified federal bank robbery charge ag­last week she was held captive in ainst her. closets .after being kidnapped by 
He said he does not believe themembers of the Symbionese Liber­prosecution proved in its presenta­ation Army. 
tion that Miss Hearst"could have The Hibernia Bank branch which become a sympathizer" of the SLA Miss Hearst is accused of helping between the time the terrorist 
Challenges may be made 
By Mary Beth Mlracky 
Staff Reporter 
Anyone who thinks he has been denied "full and timely opportunity to participate" in the 1976 Mock Democratic Convention may chal­lenge the delegations certified by the State Parties according to the ··Procedures for the Credentials Committee." These procedures modeled on the 1976 call for the Democratic National ConventiOn were outlined by author and Cre­dentials Committee Chairperson Kevin J. Bouffard in an interview Monday. Also present was Delega­tion Coordinator James "Buzz" Reynolds. 
The challenges must be presen­ted to Bouffard at 121 Pangborn, phone 8325, by the full credentials committee meeting to be held on Sunday, February 22 in 127 Nieuw­land Science Hall at 6 p.m. 
Procedures require that the chal­lenge must have the signatures of at least three persons who were denied the right to participate through some violation of the National Democratic Party's "affir­mative action plan." According to the procedures, this plan is "to insure a proportional representa­tion of age, sex, and race among the delegation. 
Also stated in the procedures, "The challenge must be in the form of a resolution stating: (1) the reasons why the challenging party is discriminated against as a result of the actions of the State Party, and (2) the corrective action which the challenging party proposes to rectify the situation." 
The procedures offer as the solutions the replacement of the entire delegation or the promotion of alternated to full delegate status. 
·'The challenged party must also submit the names, addresses and telephone numbers of the challeng­ed delegated or State Chairperson" according to procedures. The document states: "FAilure to meet any of the above requirements is grounds for the challenge to be rejected out of hand by the Creden­tials Committee Chairperson." 
WANTED 
Need 4 Marquette tid<ets for" old alurmi, willing to neQOtlate $$. call 3258, 9-12 P.M. 
Need 2 GA Marquette tlx. You name price. call 8321. 
Desperately need four Marquette tickets. catl1683. 
Desperately need 1 or 2 GA Marquette tld<ets. Call Bob 1214. 
Need many WMU tlx! Call 233-9841 after 11 P.M. 
Salesmen, pert-time irrmediately. Intan­gible sates, mnmissions. call AIMS 277-2922. 
Three girls need ride to Indianapolis, Feb. 20 or 21. catl 4662. 
Need 3 Marquette tlx. Jack 3597. 
Need 2-4 GA Marquette tid<ets, will pay -,our price. Call Tom 8334. 
Need 5 Marquette tid<ets. catl Bleen or Mlrion, 6798. 
Need GA .00 student fix for" Marquette badly. Please call All, 1654. 
GA tld<ets for" Marquette, C811 Tom at 7781. 
2 Marqyette th<. please call Terri, 287-6638. 
FOR SALE 
Blue-gold NO jacket, S$ or will barter for" drugs. call 287-6758. 
Disneyland Murals from Mardi Gras for" sale. call 1348. 
T-shlrts, T-shlrts, T-shlrts--for dubs and clclnN. c.ll DIM! at 277-0948. 
1968 Dodge Chcrger 318, automatic, power steering, great mndition, snow tires and Mag v..tleels induded. $600, call 272-1710 or 272-4777 after 5:30 P.M. 
NOTICES 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. D:lnoho, 232-0746. 
Freshmen: last chance to buy a '75 dogbook! If -,ou'd like one, rome to Student lkllon. 1-3 P.M. MWF, $2.00. 
UFE IN THE SPIRIT seminars begin Tues., Feb. 17th. ·Rlr information call Karen 1312 or Mary Anne 1338. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: 1973 Lake Superior State College dass ring behind Law Building; yellow gold, fraternity syrrbols on stone inside initials of w.J.A. call Bill Anr6trong at ~88-4349 or Law Building. 
R>und: near north door to Huddle, St. Mary's Academy dass ring 1967. Call Mike 288-1237. 
FOR RENT 
Summer rental, super rates for" houses or room;. Real dose to carr-pus and fumished, call 233-2613. 
Rw 111d six bedroom houses for" rent, for" next school year. Bccellent mndition, dose to c.an'1)US, <Dfl'llletely furnished. call 233-2613. 
Brick ranch within walking distance to Notre Dame, 2-3 bedroom;, finished basement, automatic sprinklers, garage door opener, alr-ccnditlon, and ml!ll'lY extras. $42,000, call 232-0780. 
PERSONALS 
Got a question about drinking? Red K. of Mlchig!l"' State lkllv. will have sorre answers at the open diSOJSSion meeting of Almhollcs Anonyrrous, 7:30P.M. Non' Feb. 23, Athletic Audifor"lum. ACC. 
Everybody welmme. Rlr rrore lnforma. 
Jerger to 'spotlight' engineering 
by Barb Langhenry 
Staff Reporter 
Dr. Edward Jerger, associate dean of the College of Engineering, will present a talk and discussion entitled, "Education in the College of Engineering" on Monday, Feb. 16 at 7 p.m. in the engineering auditorium. 
The talk is a part of the "spotlight" program which the colleges and the Office of the Freshman Year of Studies started this year. The program's purpose is to aid freshmen in the their transition into sophomore year. The program will focus on the College of Engineering this week and next. 
Dr. Jerger stated he will advise the students as to what t<? expect in 
~~.~.~..~ 
t~r~~~/2 ~!~~l~~l9
1: 
bU day advance paymen! rnqutred 
~~ 
7Q ~?i 1 1ree 800-325·4867 ~ Un;Travel Charters 

Classified Ads 
OPEN 11 to 9 P.M EVERYDA 
1516 N. IRONWOOD 289-0755 
tion call 8809. 
Wacky Come home! Your parents low you, $100 I for anybody who brings our baby homeI Mr. and Mrs. Wacky Wabbit 
Bunny, Late as usual, but rememeber ... quallty, 1 not quantity! ' Low, The Night Owl 
Secr-et v.orshipper. please submit -,our resume to the OBSERVER. You will be mntacted in a IM!ek. Bobo 
George, Happy V-day from Jersey. With low, dim 
R'an Demarl<o says: Any freshman, sophorrore, junior, senior wishing to mntinue with dance lessons may do so. Classes every Tuesday evening at 7:30-9:30. $2 each dass. 
Buon Cofl'lllea10, Maureen 5alutl Affecttuosi, Bisabelta 
Weight watchers of Notre Dame have a lot of dead ~o~~eight lying around. Meeting every night at 12 rridnight for" tree munsellng, pasta. call Mama "B" 6798. 
Greg & Jim Sure pulled the WXII over -,our eyes. Stud 
sorry about all the calls Marrma B. and roommates. I'll make It up to y'all. Stud 
Countess, The WJr'd Is out. I YoOOder v..t1o let the rat out of the bag. To a gre.!l \Nel!kald, but 1o11e will have to stop meeting llle this. Lon Chaney 
Dear 1022 w. 26th, Happy Oatel Valentine's Day. You will always be dose to my heart. LDw, "Breakfast In Bed." 
Rlr the best food this side of home, try TACO RICO, Scottsdale Mall. 
an engineering curriculum and site 
The Colle~e of Science will be 
career opportunities in the engin­
"spotlighted" in the next two 
eering field. 
weeks. Nexr week liter~ture and 
Next week there will also be 
videotapes on education and ca­
departmental open houses in the 
reers in the various phases of 
college. Information about the 
science will be available in the 
time and place for these open 
Freshman Learning Resource Cen­
houses is available in the Freshman 
ter. 
Year Office. 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
mTJ::RVU:\~S SCIII:DULJ::D FOR \'il:EK OF FI:llRUARY 23 
Intervie\IS are for seniors and qraduate students, Sign-up schedules are in Room 213, 'lain lluilding, Interview 
timen must be signed for in person, La" School nign-uns are at the Pre-Law Society l:lulletin Boards, O'Shaughnessy Hall, The sign-up period at the Placement Bureau will be 
from 8:00 am, to 5:00 pm,, :1onday through Thursday, 
FI.:B, 23 Carrier Corporation, :!on, Cancelled, 
Inland Steel Co, c;cneral Offices, 
ll in AL, BA, :1UA, u:t in J::ngr, :1ath, 
Olin Corporation, 
u in :IE and ChJ::, 
Qsco-Turnstvle, 
m1 in 1\L and Ill\, 
Rockwell International, :lissiles Div, 
Cancelled, 
Tektronix, Inc, 
Cancelled, 
FEB, 23/24 Fidelity Union Life Insur, co, tlon/Tues. B~ in all disciplines. For Sales and 
Sales llgt, Primarily in South llend but 
will refer to other locations, 
Rockwell International, Electronics Div, 
Cancelled, 
•rues, ll in Engr, for Product :1gt, Trainee, ll in :IE for planning of projects, design of prod line facilities & equip, dev, B in I.:E for control circuits & systems control, power distribution, substation layout, Castle :letals, ll in AL, DA R, R, Donnellev & Co, itlJJ\, .<aval Avionics Facility, Cancelled, Travelers Insurance Co, All UBI\, 
!'Ell, 24 25 Keebler Co. 
Tues Weds, All llBA, 
Rohm and Haas Co, 
Cancelled, 
FEll. 25 Burroughs Corp, 
\~ed, DBA for r~t. Sales only, 
Commonwealth Edison Co, 
D in Acct, CE, llM in cil,•-m,•IENO, 
Continental Oil Co 
Cancelled. 
General r1otors Corp. 
ll in Econ, Fin, Acct, tlqt, 'Ill/\ 
with Acct or Fin Background or cone 
For Financial Analyst, Location: ' 
Detroit, ,I, US, citizenship re1uired, 
ll, F, r.oodrich Co, 
All lllll\ and 1IBA, 
;lalco Chemical Co, 
Cancelled, 
IICR Corp. 
Cancelled, 
l~eliance Electric Co, 
Res7hedulcd f~om Feb, 2, rew openings 
ava1l, for ll 1n I;I-:,ni.:,:u;Io, 'lui\ "ith Tech IJS, 
Saqa Food Service, 
Btl/\ and 11IJ,\, 
l'CB, 2u American 1\ir Filter, 
'l'hurs, D in :u;, LE, Chi.:, 
;laval Ship :lescarch and Development center, 
Cancell<!d, 
Peooles Gas Light and CoJ~c co. 
C3.nC£!lled. Prudential ll in all disciplin£!s, Rike's, il in 1\L and Ull,  
FE!>, 26/27 'l'hurs/Fri,  3.1 Comoany, ll in chE,EJ:,·u:Io,  :m  (26thl,  
Fl:u, Fri.  27  ex-Cell-O Corporation, B in Acct, Sears, noebuck & Co, ll in 1\L and Ul\, f/tcnan Chemical Co. .J in Chll and Chem, ~~a~guette ~niv, r.rad, Sch, of B 1n all d1sc, InforMational  

enrollMent in Grad, Sch, of llusin<!ss, 
r;m•LOY!;H I:IFOR:IA'l'Illil, ALTI::!'-~A'l'IVI.:S, •!'Ei\CIII:Vi, SU'-IIU:R ACTIOli/PEACE CORPS/VISTA, FI::IJI::AAL SI:RVICE, • ' ROO~! 213, AD:II:IISTRATION llUILDI.Jn, 
2/12/76 
u in 1\cct, (27th) 
Business, 
.. 
intervim<s for 
~-----------­
-----~---------­

Monday, February 16, 1976
the observer 
Irish topple rugged Mountaineers 
by Fred Herbst points apiece. Tony Robertson and Russell Chapman demonstrated so-
It was tougher than expected, me fine outside shooting scoring 14 but Notre Dame beat upset-minded and 10 points respectively for the West Virginia Saturday 97-77 be-Mountaineers. fore a sellout crowd of 11,345 in the As the second half opened, the ACC. crowd came alive to watch the Irish 
The game was highlighted by the leave their zone and play some of outstanding play of freshman Bru-their most tenacious man to man ce Flowers and All-American A-defense ofthe season. Notre Dame drian's rise to the 2,000 career scored 11 straight points to take the point plateau. lead for good while holding West 
Despite the final difference of 20 Virginia scoreless for the first four points, the Irish had their hands minutes of the second half. full with the rugged Mountaineers. But the Mountaineers refused to The visitors kept Notre Dame from yield, pulling back within a point getting their offense untracked with 14 minutes remaining. The with a tough man to man defense visitors were unable to catch the that held the Irish to one of their Irish but remained within ten lowest scoring halves of the season. points until Notre Dame blitzed 
Notre Dame countered by playing them 15-5 in the last two minutes of a zone defense for one of the few the game. times this season. Flowers connected on 13 of 16 
With just over four minutes shots from the field and scored a remaining in the half, West Virgi-career high 27 points to lead the nia scored ten unanswered points Irish. It was the first time this to pull ahead by five. The Irish season that Dantley hasn't led the appeared pressed during the Mou-team in scoring. Flower!>. also fresh~an B~uce Flowers poured in a career-high 27 points to lead ND ~~st West Virginia. (Photo ntaineer surge as they forced three contributed 11 rebounds, a blocked by Chr.s Smath). bad shots and Dantley blew a shot and an assist to the Notre When Dantley connected on the 2,000 points," Dantley said. going to have to score if teams are layup, before Ray Martin hit Duck Dame cause as the freshman second end of a one-and-one with "Adrian, I really feel for him," going to tie up Adrian." Williams on a back door play with turned in his finest college perfor-28 seconds left in the contest to Irish coach Digger Phelps said. Tony Robertson scored 20 points six seconds remaining to trail 37-34 mance. bring his game total to 26, he ·'They sag on him and he can't get for West Virginia while Warren at the intermission. "It seemed like I had the open became only the second player in the good shots. Yet he's in there Baker added 17. 
Flowers led the Irish in the first shots," Flowers said, "and after I Notre Dame history to score 2,000 rebounding, taking the punishment Notre Dame played without the half scoring 12 points while Dantley hit those first four baskets I had the points in a career. "I just thank game after game, and he's still services of Dave Batton who split a and Toby Knight added eight confidence." God that I've been able to score · scoring points. I'm happy he got tendon in the back of his ankle 

leers nearly sweep Tech; lose heartbreaker, then win decisively 
minutes into the final frame,
by Tom Kruczek appearances of a run-away to the 
snaking a low wrist shot past 
season-high crowd of 3,983 people
Horsch's right skate with assist's
Notre Dame's hockey team al­in attendance. Jim Mayer tallied 
going to Geoff Collier and Terry
most did something this weekend first and George Lyle had number 
Fairholm. The Irish then endured
that people aren't supposed to do. two before the Irish could get on 
frustration for 12 minutes as every­
they almost swept a pair of games the board. 
thing they tried to do turned for
from the nation's top ranked team, With 1:19 to play in the period,
naught. But at the 14:09 mark
Michigan Tech University. Instead Don Fairholm passed to Roger
Steve Letzgus was chased for
they lost a heart-breaker by a very Bourque who hit Kevin Nugent in 
interference in his four infractions
little bit Friday 7-6, but came back front of the net. Nugent then put
of the night, and the Irish were
and methodically destroyed the the puck over Rockwell to close the 
ready to capitalize on the error.
Huskies 9-5 on Saturday. first period scoring. 
A minute and 13 seconds intoi 
In the next twenty minutes, theThe 7,371 fans who came to the 
the penalty, Clark Hamilton rifled a
ACC for the games over the Irish filled the Tech goal 6 times 
low bullet from the left circle into
weekend were treated to a tremen­and took 48 shots, 22 of which were 
the far corner of the net, to make it 
on goal. They set a record for most ment both nights. A total of 27 5-4 with just 4:38 to play. assists in a period with 11 , tied a dous display of hockey and excite­
Twenty-three seconds later with
goals were scored and in Saturday mark for most points in a period
the crowd on its feet, Don Fiarholm 
nights game a number of records with 17 and set an unofficial mark 
hit a streaking Roger Bourque with 
for most shots taken in a period.
were tied and broken by the Irish. 
a pass at the left point, who hit a 
In the period, Tech's Jim MayerFriday nights contest showed the 
low slap shot at the right corner of 
picked up his hat trick, scoringfans in attendance why Michigan 
the net where winger Allen Karnia
Tech is the number one team in the twice early in the frame. Terry
tipped it in and the score was 
Fairholm picked up his 4th goal ofcountry this year, never losing their knotted at S-5. 
the season, sandwiched in-between poise, always sure that they would 
Tech grabbed the lead back two 
Mayer's tallies. The Irish thencome out on top. Saturday night, if 
minutes later as George Lyle 
scored 5 unanswered goals. 
one didn't know better, one would uncorked a drive which Irish goalie Fairholm was first
Don the toassume the Irish were the number 
John Peterson rejected, but lost the 
score in the 5 goal spree, stealingone team and the Huskies were just 
rebound onto the stick of Stu 
the puck off Joe Sparks for thethe ones fighting for the home-ice Ostlund who stuffed it in. 
score. Alex Pirus was next rifling aadvantage for the play-offs. 
With 1 :07 left, each team had a 
blue-dart from almost no angle on aBut the one aspect of the 
man in the penalty box, and Smith 
power play opportunity past aweekend that made Coach Charles 
pulled John Peterson to give the 
stunned Rockwell, who would have(Lefty) Smith the happiest was that 
Irish the extra skater. Right off the 
lost an appendage had he tried tothe excitement of hockey returning 
draw, Mike Zuke sent a screaming 
stop the shot.
to the ACC. "It was really pleasant 
shot toward the vacant Irish goal, 
Brian Walsh then tipped in histo see good crowds and the 
but defenseman Paul Clarke de­
own rebound off a Hamilton shot at enthusiasm that they showed," 
flected the shot at center ice with a 
11:27. Two minutes later the IrishSmith said. "A number of the 
great dive, tipping the puck away 
lead was opened to two goals asolder players said that the .crowds 
with an outstretched hand. 
Paul Clarke tipped in another low
reminded them of the 1972-73 With just 27 seconds left, Clarke angle shot, this one by Allen season when we were on our hot 
fired a wrist shot over Horsch's 
Karsina. The final goal of thestrek and everyone was coming out 
right shoulder and the score was 
period was scored on a beautifuland raising hell at the games. The tied at 6-6. 
play by the number one line. Paulfans are a great help, especially the Then right off the face-off, Clarke brought it out of the Irish
students." George Lyle won the draw from zone, hitting Walsh at center-iceFriday nights game began well 
Don Fairholm, skated to his left, 
who flipped the puck to wingerwith Kevin Nugent opening the put a move on Clarke at the Pirus at the blue line. Pirus thenscoring at 1 :59 with his 14th goal of blue-fine and come in alone on caught Hamilton a few stridesthe season off assists from Don Peterson, beating the sophomore inside the stripe. Hamilton decked Fairholm and Roger Bourque. But goalie cleanly to the short side. 
once and faked Rockwell out ofMichigan Tech came back with 2 The Irish were not finished yet, position, then easily tossed a
goals in the first period and two as with 6 seconds left to play backhand by him. more in the second before Jack Hamilton came barnstorming down Notre Dame's steak of goals wasBrownschidle was able to send a the right side, put a great move on not ended yet, as Don Fairholm and bouncer in from the left point that 
at the blue line, cut toward the Allen Karsnia each scored once andgot under goalie Bruce Horsch's leg center and flicked a backhand at 
Pete Roberts added a power playat the 17:10 mark. Freshman Horsch, which he rejected to save goal for Tech before the night'swinger Steve Schneider did a the day for the Huskies. scoring was over. 
tremendous job digging near the Saturday's game saw three cha­John Rockwell of Tech turnedboards to get the puck back to the 
nges in the line-ups. Len Moher away 54 shots in a losing effort junior defensemen, even though replaced Peterson in the Irish goal while Moher stopped 38. In three the official scorer did not give and Dickie Howe replaced Pat 
period's the Irish took 94 shots, a Schneider an assist on the play. 
Novitzki who suffered moderate season high. The victory over Tech Two minutes later Tech's Jim thigh gash the night before. For was the first since January 18, 1974 
Mayer put in his 19th goal of the Tech John Rockwell replaced Hor­when the Irish won 7-1. 
season to make the score 5-2 in 
sch in the goal. The Irish remain at home this favor of the Huskies going into In just over five minutes of the weekend, taking on Michigan State what was to be a wild final period. first period, Tech had scored twice, in games Friday and Saturday at
Schneider opened the scorinR 3 and the game had all of the 7:30p.m. 
his 2,000th point here, he loves our student body and our student body loves him." 
Dantley now trails only Austin Carr in career scoring for the Irish. Carr socred 2,560 points in his three years with the Irish. 
The Irish All-American also set a personal career high as he pulled down 21 rebounds. His old high was 17, reached on a number of occasions. The Irish outrebounded their opponents for the 21st con­secutive time this season, beating the Mountaineers on the boards 56-29. 
Notre Dame placed five players in double figures as they continue to spread out the scoring more evenly. Besides Flowers and Dantley, Paterno, Williams and Knight all hit for double figures. "We are starting to jell as a team," Phelps said. "Other people are during practice on Friday. The injury is not serious and he is expected back for the team's next 
The Irish will start a four-game road trip tonight as they invade the new Indianapolis Market Square Arena to play Butler. 
Butler enters the tilt with an 11-11 record, beating Indiana Cen­tral 68-67 in double overtime last Wednesday. The Bulldogs are led in scoring and rebounding by forward Barry Collier who is hitting for 15.8 points per game and pulling down 7.5 boards a contest. 
Collier is joined in the starting lineup by forward Don McGlocklin 
(7.0 p.p.g.), center Jeff Fehn (5.5 p.p.g.), guards Bill Lynch (8.5 p.p.g.) and Wayne Burris (16.8 p.p.g.). Jon McGlocklin and Tom Warner are the Bulldog's top reserves. 
Tip-off is set for 8 p.m. 
ND Varsity Results 
Irish fencers 
The Irish will be in action at home this week. On Wednesday
set new record 
night the Irish will entertain Na­Detroit, Mich.-Coach Mike De­tional Catholic Champion John Cicco's fencing teams established a Carroll University in a 7:30 p.m. 
new Notre Dame record of 33 
start. 
consecutive wins by downing the University of Chicago 26-1 and Swim team loses 
Detroit University 22-5 here SAtur­
day, breaking the longest previous Marshall University swam to a 
string of 31 victories set during the dramatic finish as they won the last 
1967-69 seasons. event of the meet to edge the Notre 
Freshman Mike Sullivan won Dame swimmers 63-50 in Hunting­
five sabre bouts bringing his ton, West Virginia Saturday. 
season record to 32 wins against Mark Foster highlighted the 
only two losses, while Mike Me-Irish performance by capturing two 
Cahey, Pat Gerard and Terry wins in the one meter required and 
~cConnv!lle went undefeated dur-the one-meter optional events. His 
mg the trtangular meet. mark in the latter established a new 
T~e Notre Dame-St. ~ary's wo-pool record. Other victors for the men s team fell to Bowlmg Green Irish were Ed Fitzsimmons in the 9-7. 200 yd. freestyle, Bob Wardell inNO wrestlers win the 2oo yd. inter~ediate medley,
' and Andry Petro m the 200 yd.
then lose twice breaststroke. 
Normal, Ill.-The Notre Dame Tracksters fourth wrestling team was in action on Saturday at Illinois State University A first place finish by Jay in a quadrangular meet with host Miranda in the 1,000 yard run Illinois State, Indiana State and highlighted Notre Dame's fourth Eastern Illinois University. The place finish in the Indiana Big State Irish defeated Eastern Illinois 25-18 meet run at Purdue on Friday but dropped tough decisions to night. The Hoosiers of Indiana Indiana State, 21-12 and Illinois captured team honors and were State, 21-18. followed by Purude, Indiana State 
The Irish had seve~al outstand­and the Irish, rounding out the top 
ing individual performers. Fresh­four. man heavyweight Bob Golic re­Miranda covered the 1,000 yards mained undefeated as he regis­in a time of 2:12.9, his fastest time tered two pins and a draw. of the year thus far. Notre Dame Co-captain Dave Boyer, wrestling had its share of other bright with an injured shoulder, tallied moments as well. Bill Allmending­
two superior decisions after drop­er placed second in the 880 with a ping his opening match against time of 1:54.5, Jim O'Brien was his Indiana State oppo!Jent. second in the 600 yard run with a 
Dan Heffernan also clocking of 1:11.8, Chris Haines ran l'l!m_ed a win and a tie. the 60 in 6.4 to finish fourth 
