

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XI, No. 42 Friday, November 5, 1976 
Carter to be aggressive, considering tax cut 
PLAINS, Ga. [API -President­elect Jimmy Carter said last night that the narrow margin of his victory will not keep him from "moving aggressively to carry out my campaign commitments." Car­ter said there is a strong possibility he will seek a tax cut for average wage earners if the economy does not perk up by Inauguration Day. Jan. 20. 
At his first nationally televised news conference, from the chilly platform of his hometown railroad depot. Carter said the fact that President Ford came close to winning Tuesday's presidential election does not mean that Carter must adjust his plans for change in a new administration. 
"I wish we could have carried all SO states. but since I didn't. I hope to demonstrate even before my inauguration my complete commit­ment to being president of all the American people,'' he said. 
Carter appeared with Sen. Wal­ter F. Mondale. but the vice president-elect was the silent part­ner in the first major pronounce­ments of the administration-to-be. Carter did all the talking. 
Among his major points: 
1 There will be "substantial continuity" in American foreign policy, toward U.S. allies and also toward potential adversaries. 
, He will not name members of his Cabinet before December, and will choose them for merit, after personal interviews, and in "a careful. very slow and very meth­odical process." He said he will try to achieve geographical and other balance in his Cabinet. 
1 He is concerned about a possible increase in the price of imported oil. but can do nothing about it except say so. Carter said he does not want to mislead people into thinking that he can influence 
U.S. policy or deci!>ions until he 

Digger Phelps talked about more than the coming season last night at Howard Hall. Read what else on page 5. [Photo by Jim Hoffman] takes office. 
, He acknowledged the difficulty of achieving his state goals. But he said he believes he can. with a Democratic Congress. fulfill the promises he made. among them an overhaul of the government, wel­fare and tax reform, and a new. comprehensive energy policy. 
Once again, Carter thanked Ford for the President's offer of cooper­ation and support in the transition to the new Democratic administra­tion. He said he hopes to meet with Ford and the President's top advisers for a briefing on foreign policy questions. 
Carter said that if the current economic slowdown persists. he may act soon after assuming office to seek a new tax cut. He said such a cut would be designed to increase the purchasing power of the aver­age American family, and would be oriented toward lower-income tax­payers. 
Lawrence Klein, a University of Pennsylvania economist who is a top Carter adviser on the economy, has recommended to Carter a $10-billion to $IS-billion tax cut or a quick increase in federal spending to stimulate the economy at the start of the new administration. 
Carter said the news conference would be the first of many. "I hope that I can have at least two full-scale press conferences a month when I am President.'' he said. 
He began the conference by thanking his supporters and by saying: "No matter how anyone may have voted on Tuesday, for me or for President Ford or others, I deeply need the support of all the Ameritan people as we approach the time for a new administration next January.'' 
In addition to thanking the defeated Ford for offering support Carter added a word of thanks to vice president Nelson A. feller. He said he will take advantage of their promised coop­eration between Republican Democratic administrations. 
Carter said the three percentage points in the popular vote and the majority of the electoral votes that made him President-elect provide a mandate adequate to the tasks he has set himself. "We had a clear majority of the total electorate ... ," he noted. 
Carter received 51 percent of the popular vote, Ford 48 percent. Carter had 297 electoral votes. 27 more than a majority. with Ore­gon's six votes still to be awarded because of the closeness of the race in that state. A late count indicated Oregon went to Ford. 
Carter said that with the election verdict, and with a Democratic Congress, the new administration will keep its campaign promises. But. he added, "I don't under­estimate the difficulty." 
Carter said he has not yet set an order of priorities for action on his pledges. But he said he will do so over the next few weeks. and will announce the decisions publicly as they are made. 
Dealing with a question about the treat of an increase in prices by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, Carter said that while he is concerned, and would consider it a serious blow to the American economy. he cannot act as diplomat or policymaker now. 
He said the authority to deal with such a problem reamins President Ford's and "I have none whatso­ever." He also said he will care­fully avoid any semblance of inter­ference with the outgoing admini­stration. 
Underscoring that, Carter said after the new conference that he [continued on paae 10] 
Student government proposes changes in laundry service 
by Patrick Cole Senior Staff Reporter 

A preliminary laundry proposal by student government recom­mending installation of washers and dryers in a central location on campus for the convenience of male students has been submitted to Bro. Kiernan Ryan, assistant vice­president of business affairs. 
The proposal states that the machines are to be employed not "as an alternative to the present 
laundry system,  but merely  as  a  
necessary supplement."  
Also  submitted  to  Ryan  was  

feedback on the laundry situation from each hall. The proposal ~ill be presented to officers of the University by Ryan who is respons­ible for laundry operation. 
Reason for the Proposal 

The measure to be considered by the officers of the University calls for the installation of 12 to 15 washers and dryers in a central location on campus, preferably in 
the LaFortune Student Center. The proposal outlines three reasons why the existing system is inade­quate. 
First, the present laundry service cannot accept certain materials such as silk, because they are too delicate. In addition, certain tYpes of cotton jeans shrink to such an extent that they may be ruined by the service. The proposal notes that a similar rationale was behind the decision to exempt women from the service. 
Secondly, the S2.60 allotment provided weekly is often exceeded "enormously." 
The document notes that if a student changes his underwear and socks every day after these items are laundered only 35 cents re· mains to clean other articles. 
Lastly, the laundry, according to the proposal, is often unable to provide service quickly enough to accomodate student needs. 
In conclusion, the document states that the laundry '!'"'rvice should ''offer arl economical way of having their clothes cleaned." 

WATCH OUT FOR FALLING BRANCHES! South Bend's weather has often brought unwelcome surprises, but never homicide on the Quad [Photo by Jim Hoffman] 
Winter power failure 

Campus View left in dark 
by Lindy Declo Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame students living in the Campus View Apartments were left in the dark in the early morning hours yesterday when the first snow storm of the winter knocked out power lines around the apartment and most of the surrounding South Bend area. 
Students living in the apartments were left without any electricity. affecting heat and cooking as well as lights. The power went out around 3 a.m.. although different buildings lost their power at dif­ferent times. 
According to Mrs. Sue Horning at the Campus View offices, "The power came on in two of the buildings at eight-thirty, but then went back out at eleven. I left for work then, because there were no lights." 
As far as Horning knew there was no auxiliary system in the apartments, but she thought there might be one that kicked on after a few hours. The power did come back on in the afternoon. 
Rick Nugent. a senior living in Cal'lTpUs View said the power failure did present a porblem but this was no fault of the Apart­ments, just the snow. When asked what type of problems it presented, Nugent quipped, "Have you ever tried taking a shower in the dark?" He then explained, "There are no windows in the bathroom, but plenty of hot water." 
According to Indiana & Michigan Electric Company, over 1.000 peo­ple were without electricity in South Bend. As of last night, 800 of those customers still had no electricity. 
The Notre Dame power system was not affected by the snow storm. 
Proftt from machines 
The two-page proposal also stat­ed that the implementation of extra washers and dryers for male use does not imply that there will be a reduction of force in laundry ser­vice employees. The measure emphasizes that if it is only designed to give "the men the option to wash anything else over that S2.60 in the way they please." 
Since "the students are the ones paying for their laundry to be washed," the proposal notes,"the students are the ones who are responsible for employ of the 160 persons in the laundry depart­ment.'' H the program is imple· mented, the measure proposes that all profit from the machines will be given to the laundry service. 
Profit from the machines is one of the most important advantages ..of the proposal, according to Stu­dent Government Special Projects Director Tom Soma. Also, if the 1 system is initiated, the proposal s•.ipulates that the student~ wouJd 
[eeatb111ed • pep .5) 

1 
I 1 
1 

the observer Friday, November 5, 1976 

---News Briefs--­
~~~~~~~~=====Nationru 
Kissinger won't leave early 
WASHINGTON-Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger put to rest yesterday any suggestions that he was going to leave his post before the end of ·the Ford administration. "I'm going to stay till Jan. 20th," he told reporters who asked him about the possibility of an early departure. The date is. the time set for the inauguration of President-elect Jimmy Carter. 
.,___On Campus Today-a 
friday  - 
10 a.m.­ philosophy conference,  "the sociology of scientific  
knowledge,"  mary  hesse,  cambridge  university,  
with  gary  gutting,  commentator,  Library  faculty  

lounge. 
12:15 p.m. -travelogue series, "notre dame's midwest blues festival -signts and sounds," karen aberli, Galvin aud, sponsored by biology department. 
10 a.n:-. -isis gallery -etchings and drawings, ron shaefer. 5 p.m.­
1 -8 p.m. -debate tournament, 26th nadonal invitational de­bate!, o'shaughnessy hall, sponsored by the'debate club. 
2 p.m.-philosophy conference, "towards a methodology of critical theory: reflections on habermas," thomas mccarthy of boston univeristy. panel discussion with marjorie grene, university of california, fabio dasilva edward manier and francis fiorenza, library faculty 'lounge. 
3:30p.m. -computer course, "fortran," room 115, math and computing center. 
4:30p.m.-colloquium, "collective behavior of automata," prof 
5:15p.m.­7 p.m.­
7 and 10 p.m.­
7:15 and 9:30p.m. ­
8 p.m.­
7:30p.m. 
saturday­10 a.m.­6 p.m.­1 p.m.­
1:30 p.~. ­
2 p.m.­2 p.m.­
•3 p.m.­7, 9, and 
1-1 p.m.­7:30p.m.· 
7:30p.m. 
8 p.m.­sunday ­
8:30a.m~ 
4 p.m.­7 p.m.­
7,9 and 11 p.m. ­8 p.m.­
i i. piatetske-shapiro, university of maryland, room 226, math and computing center, sponsored by math department. 
mass and dinner, bulla shed. 
lewisio's, itialian restaurant, lewis hall basement, $1.50. 
film, "nashvi lie," engineering auditorium, spon­sored by physics club. 
film, "the heart is a lonely hunter," o'laughlin auditorium, smc, sponsored by business club. $1. 
bible study, campus crusade for christ, library lounge; 
music, blues festival, stepan center, sponsored by cultural arts commission. 
debate tournament, 26th national invitational de­bate, o'shaughnessy hall. rugby, a team, n.d. vs. purdue, stepan center field. smoker, knights of columbus hall. football, nd at georgia tech. rugby, b team, n.d. vs. purdue, stepan center field. 
rugby, c team, n.d. vs. purdue, stepan center field. film,"farewell, my lovely," engineering auditorium, sponsored by student union. 
music, blues festival, stepan center. stage production, "second city," o'laughlin auditor­
ium, sponsored by social commission, students ­$1.50 show, new keenan review, washington hall, all 
welcome, admission free. 
debate tournament, 26th national invitational de­bate, o'shaughnessy hall. 
nd-smc world hunger coalition general meeting, attendance is imoerative, library lounge. 
film, "farewell, 'my lovely," engineering auditor­ium, sponsored by student union. 
concert, percussion exiravarsanza, little theatre. 


Project Kids beginning soon, volunteers actively sought 
by Kate Flytm Staff Reporter 

Volunteers are being sought to work with Project Kids (Kids Individually Developing Skills), a program of the Northern Indiana State Hospital and Development Center, 1234 N. Notre Dame Ave. 
Twenty-one hospital residents who function at a severe/profound level of mental retardation will be included. The program is designed to develop gross and fine motor skills and to provide general stim­ulation and social contact. 
Physical therapists Candy Byers 
and Chris Sopczynski hope to enlist 
twenty-one volunteers for an ideal 
Foreign student's numbers up 
A new record for number of foreign countries represented by students was established this year
at Notre Dame when registration was completed for 196 post-bacca­laureate and 100 undergraduates from 65 nations. Last year's totaJ,of 62 countries represented was the 
previous high. 

Home countries reported this year include Australia. Bahamas, Finland, Haiti. Israel, Italy, Leb­
one-to-one working basis with chil­dren aged between twelve and eighteen. 
The program is scheduled to start Nov. 22 after the hospital staff has familiarized volunteers with general information on work with the retarded and particularly on the individual children. 
Weekly activities, every Mon. and Wed. from 3:30 to 4:45 p.m. include swimming at the , Logan Center pool, physical education classes in balance, co-ordination, body awareness and social inter­action at Logan Gymnasium table­top activities to develop fine motor skills. 
Byers stressed that no exper· ience is required and that volun· teers will be accepted if genuine 'interest is expressed. Students who are unable to work with Project 
Kids, but who can work on a 
different schedule should contact 
Volunteer Services for information. 
The Northern Indiana Hospital is 
a state and federally-funded insti­tution housing approximately 90 disabled children under the age of eighteen. Fully equipped training and recreational facilities are pro­vided to offer an intensive thera­peutic 24-hour environment, while maintaining the normal rhythm of community life. Special emphasis is placed on developing children age 
six and under. 
Notre Dame volunteer cooper· 
ation with the Center has proved 
successful before and staff mem­
bers are again hoping for the 
needed participation, Byers said. 
Interested student should con­
tact Candy Byers or Chrio;.; Sopczyn­
ski at 234-2101 

SUNDAY MASSES ·(Main Church) 
5 :15 p.m. Saturday  Rev. George Wiskirchenk C.S.C.  
9:30 a.m. Sunday  Rev. Richard Conyers, C. S.C.  
10:45 a.m. Sunday  Rev. Claude A. Pomerleau, C.S.C  
12:15 p.m. Sunday  Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C.  

Vespers will be at 7:15 p.m. in Lady Chapel. The celebrant will be Rev. Claude A. 
anon, Libya, Netherlands, Singa-.f:==~Po=~~r=·l~!!"uu~C!!::.1 S~·==C=============i~
pore and Switzerland. Represented 
last year year but not this year St dent U · 0 presents
Greece, Liberia, Portugal, Sri U nI n : Lanka, Sudim. Tanzania. West Robert Mitchum Charlotte Rampling Indies and Yemen. The U.S. terri-in a ClaSSiC thriller 
tories of American Samoa, Guam and Puerto Rico are also repre­sented. 


FAREWELL MY LOVELY 
Compiled by Rev. Daniel J. O'Neil, director of the Office of engineering auditorium 7,9,llpmInternational Student Affairs, the report lists 82 foreign students in 
!saturday, sunday nov. 6, 7 one dollar
the College of Arts and Letters, 78 
in Engineering. 73 in Science, 47 in ~:;:;:::;:;;;;;:::;;:::;:;;;;:::;:;:;;::=;:=;:;:::::==:.
Business Administration, 13 in the Freshman Year of Studies Program and three in Law School. Under­grao ates in addition to the 13 fresehmen, include 36 sophomores, 20 juniors, 28 seniors and three in a fifth-year progrl!m. 
India with 34 students, the same as last year, leads all nations for size of foreign student representa­tion. Others are Taiwan, 32; Can­ada, 24; Hong Kong. 14; Panama and Peru, eleven; Japan and 
-Puerto Rico, ten. 



Bag brothers
,. 


planning party 
The Bag Brothers will sponsor a party Saturday night at 801 St. Louis from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. The party is open to all "Bags" and friends of "Bags" and a one dollar donation will be collected at the door. 
1ht·ObwrvPr 1~ Pl•hll'ht'd Monddy through Fnddy and weekly dunng the \umnwr \P'ision, Px<.ept dunng the e•am and vacat1on pt>nod~ The Ob<>er,·er " rublisht>d by \tudPnt~ of ttw Uni\'Pr~•tv of NotrP Damp and St Mary's College Subscnptions may bt> purrha~ed for $20 per year ($10 pt•r SPmester) from 1 hP Obser­ver, Box Q. Notre lJarnP, lndtana 46S56 St>wnd class postagP pa1d, Notre Ddme. lnd1ana 46556 
Tht> Obst>rver IS a membPr ol the 


CHIMES. 

the St. Mary's College Uterary Magazine, is now accepting manuscripts for publication --stories, poems, plays, non-fiction, photographs, art work of any kind. 
Should be sent to: 
Chimes, Care of Max Westler 
Madaleva Hall 
St. Mary's CoUege 
********~****~~~~~*­
~THE TRIP IS ON!!t ~ Bus Trip t ~ & Concert Ticket t 



UHE EAGLESt
* ~
* Thursday Nov.ll ~ ~ Chicago Stadium ~ * Price-$16 ~ 
*~ BUSSES LEAVE THE MAIN CIRCLE ~ 

fight~ arp re\Prved AT 5:30pm ~ ..-.iiiiiiiiiliiiiijiijjiijlliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil;;iiililiiiiiii......__._.-,*
As~oCJatPd Press. All reprodw tum 
* 
Tickets on sale Friday Nov. 5-~ 
THE COLONIAL 

PANCAKE HOUSE 

OUR SPECIALTY 

OVEN-BAKED APPLE PANCAKES 
"You'll be back for more" . US 31, <Dixie'-Y~Y Nor1t,) in RosP.Iand (Across from Holiday Inn) 
s.u. Ticket Office ~ 
**********.*********• 


Miss Compugraphic says: 


''14.5'' 

Join The Observer layout ~taff 

.· .~ ../ ., .
We ne·ed all the help we ·can get 
-~~--­


Representatives selected for Academic Council 
by Marian Ullcny Staff Reporter 
Student representatives for the Academic Council have been selec­ted, according to Fr. Ferdinand Brown. associate provost. 

Representatives for the graduate and undergraduate programs are: Jennifer Hughes, graduate school; Chris Nadeau, Law School and 1'-.-tBA; Robin Lavender, College of Science; Joseph Burns, College of Engineering; Scott Medlock, Col­lege of Arts and Letters; and Kathleen Riordan, College of Busi­ness Administration. 
According to Fr. Terrance Lally, assistant vice-president for student affairs. the selection procedure for the undergraduate representatives began in each college. Interested students submitted their names and brief statements to the col­lege's nominating committee. The committee interviewed each candi date and submitted the names of three nominees to the final board of selection. 
The board of selection. set up by student body President J\.!ike Gass­man. consisted of Gassman, Lally, Brother John Benesh, director of student activities, Bridget O'Don­nell, Ombudsman chairman, Mark Klein. Student Advisory Commit­tee member. Mike Casey, student body·vice-president and J.P. Rus­sell, hall presidents council chair­
man. 
The board chose representatives on the basis of leadership ability, academic qualifications, and addi­tional interviews. 

Interviews were concerned with the nominees' ideas about student representation, Lally stated, and included model situations, in which the student was forced to choose between voting in the interest of his college or the University as a whole. Nominees were also asked whether they would vote using their own policies or those of their constituency. 
"There was no 'right' choices," Lally stressed.. "It was not the outcome that was important but the thought process behind it." 
Lally stated it was difficult to choose among the nominees be­cause of the regularity of their high qualifications. "They're all good," . he added. "You can't lose in choosing someone." 
No interviews were given to the nominees from the College of Science because its list was accom­panied by recommendations. according to Lally. The nominees were also ranked in order of selection preference. The selection board chose the highest-ranked nominee for the position. 
The graduate representative was chosen on the basis of a statement of purpose submitted to the Gradu-
Businesses on US 31 promoting Quickie 
by Jack Silhavy Staff Reporter 

Several entertainment spots along the Quickie bus route will begin contributing money this week to aid the funding of the shuttle service, according to Rick Dullantv. director of the service. 
Kubiak's and the Heidelburg Inn have each pledged ten dollars per bus each week the Quickie is in service. Normally. two buses oper­ate each week. but more can be put into operation for special parties. 
Forum Theatres has also prom­ised to help out, although exact amounts are not yet known. Dul­lanty said he hopes Shula's will also contribute to the service. 
Approximately 60 percent of the money to run the service now is obtained through the average 160 students per week who ride the' Quickie. The St. Mary's Social Commission contributes about 25 percent per week, and the remain­
der is paid by the Notre Dame Social Commission. 
"The Quickie is budgeted to operate at a slight loss,'' comment­ed Dullanty. 
The Quickie service was set up three years ago to provide trans­portation to services on U.S. 31 and to prevent accidents. Bill McLean and Charlie Moran were the organ­izers that year. 
Three years ago, the cost was 25 cents one way and 50 cents for the full night. This year, due to rising costs, a rider must pay SO cents one way or 75 cents for all night. 
Patronage of the bus service has stayed "pretty much the same" over the past three years, said Dullanty. More students use the service at the beginnings of semes­ters than at the ends. however. 
One Ombudsman representative said, • 'The Quickie has gone smoothly without any reports of disturbances or excessive rowdi­ness by students." 
Tl e first year, the Quickie route followed two loops, one going north into Michigan and the other going south to shopping centers in South 
Bend. The southern loop was discontinued after two or three runs due to a lack of student interest. 
"We'd hoped that people want­ed to go other places than bars, but it just didn't work," said Dullanty. 
return was received from students taking this southern route. 
Its managers claim the Quickie 'has been very successful in the attempt to curb drunken driving by students from Michigan bars. A catalog distributed by the Depart­ment of Health, Education and Welfare notes the Quickie service as a beneficial means of curbing the drunken driving problem at college campuses. · 
Due to other social activities for many of the remaining Friday 
·nights this semester, the Quickie will run only tonight and Dec. 3. Next semester, however. the social Commission will also operate the Quickie on Saturday nights. "This will be basically a first try at this," commented Dullanty. 
Prison vocational training does not rehabilitate ' 
INDIANAPOLIS [AP] _ The head of 
an Indiana Bar Association study of 
vocational training programs in 
prisons says most of the training is 
worse than none at all. 
"It's probably the worst I've 

ever seen," said B.G. Culver, of 
Terre Haute, chairman of the labor 
task force of the Indiana Lawyer's 
Commission, a division of the State 
Bar Association. 
A report submitted Thursday to 

Gov. Otis R. Bowen, urged the 
upgrading of vocational programs 
in Indiana's correctional institu­
tions. 
"I think that the general obser­

vations of the labor task force was 
that most ofthe vocational rehabili­
tation programs that we've seen in 
prisons across the State of Indiana 
are archaic and in some cases so 
bad that the inmates probably would be better off with no training at all, because the training they got ·would probably hinder their cha­
nces, of getting a job on the 
outside," said B.G. Culver of Terre 
Haute, the group's chairman. 
"All in all, I would say that our 

opinion was that the chances of 
vocational rehabilitaion behind pri­
son walls was very slim. 
"We probably felt the prisons, 

the ones at least we visited, 
weren't good for anything but 
warehousing people," he said. 
"They certainly do not rehabilitate 
persons and most of the people 
He added that only 15-20. pet:cent..~hey return to hometowns are ate Student Council which voted on the nominees. The representative for the Law School-MBA alternates yearly between the two programs. This year, the Board of Directors of the Law School Student Bar Asso­ciation selected the representative on the basis of a submitted statement. The 1977-78 representa­tive will be chosen in a similar manner from the MBA student body by the Executive Club of the MBA program. 
In addition to the student repr$!­sentatives, the Academic Council is composed of adminstrators and 32 elected faculty members. Accord­ing to the Notre Dame Faculty Handbook, "the principal functions of the Council are to determine general academic policies and reg­ulations of the University." Its jurisdiction ranges from approving admission and graduation regula­tions from Colleges and Schools of the University to reviewing and ammending the Academic Manual. Council decisions are reached by a majority vote and are subject to the approval of the President. 
The student representatives par­ticipate in the decision-making process, and their votes carry equal weight with the other Council members. According to Lally, the students "are very well-respected for their input. Las year's made a good impression. This year's will be even better." 

The students are involved in various activities in addition to the Council. Hughes, a graduate stu­dent in international relations. is president of the graduate student union. Nadeau is a member of the Student Bar Association. Riordan. \ a senior finance major, is Finance Club secretary and Walsh Hall vice-president. 
Burns belongs to the student chapter of the American Institute of Architects and is a photographer for The Observer. He is a fourth year architectural engineering major. Lavender, a junior micro­biology major serves on the Ombudsman staff, the South Bend Sex Offense Staff and works at the St. Joseph Hospital Emergency Room. 
Medlock, a fourth year student in the General Program, economics and German, is a permanent member of the Dean's Committee on Curriculum Development. He also serves on the Arts and Letters, Students Advisory Council and the Arts and Letters College Council. 
returned bitter against society, having been educated by more sophisticated criminals. 
"We just kind of felt like what we were really conducting were schools for criminals." During the past year, Culver and the other eight members of the task force, visited the State Youth Center Prison Reformatory, Farm and Women's Prison. 

Sen. Bayh takes trip to China 
WASIDNGTON [AP] -Indiana Sen. Birch Bayh leaves today for the Peoples Republic of China as a member of the ftr~t official U.S. mission to that country since the death of Mao Ts~:-tung. 
Bayh is deputy leader and rank­ing Democrat of the six-member Senate delegation. 
"This mission will hopefully provide an opportunity to learn more about China's new leadership and a chance to gain a clearer understanding of their foreign poli­cy and security concerns -as well as insight into how these may have an impact on the interests of the 
U.S. and our allies in that region of the world,'' Bayh said on the eve of his departure for Peking. 
The delegation was appointed by President Ford in response to an invitation from China's Foreign Affairs Institute. 
Friday, November 5, 1976 the observer 


STARTS FRIDAY ... AMERICA'S MOST UNLIKELY HERO! 
"ONE OF THE YEAR'S BEST" 
Judith Crist, Sat. Review "EXCITING" Rex Reed 
CBS Network 
Liz Smith Cosmopolitan 
with ZERO MOSTEL-HERCHEL BERNARDI. ·._ FRI. 7:30-9:30-Sat.-Sun. 1 :45·3:45·5:45-7:45 .m.  
ONE OF THE GRF.ATEST ADVENTURES EVER FUMED! rii1 LEE MARVIN~NO ROGER M008EL!!J ~ ar11111111V1L STARTS FRIDAY FRIDAY6:50-9:10 SAT. SUN. -2:00-4 :25-6:50-9:20  
SPECIAL-FRI. AND SAT._·MIDNITE SHOW REDUCED PRICE!  


---~~ ---~ -~-­
the observer Friday, November 5, 1976 



Hesburgh confident about Carter, sees difficult tasks ahead 
by Paul Hess Staff Reporter 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Univer­sity President, expressed his con­fidence in President-elect Jimmy Carter last night in a wide-ranging discussion with students in the Sorin Hall Lounge. 
·'If he's able" to surround himself with the right people," Hesburgh <Hh·iscd his captivated audience, ''he's going to be a really great President." His remarks followed Carter's first press conference which Hesburgh and students watched in Sorin. 
Hc~burgh's talk included issues a~ varied as abortion and the Notre Dame Law School. but dealt pri­marily with Carter, his election and the problems that confront his administration. 
Hcsburgh agreed with Carter's assertion that a difficult task lies ahead of the President-elect, but he added that he believes the hard­working former Georgia governor is quite capable of being an excellent executive. He told the students that he had advised Carter to "choose the best people for the 
new  Administration  whether  
they're  black  or  white,  Catholic,  
Protestant or Jewish."  

· music song, "Hillbilly in the White 

Carter faces Fed fight House." Porter Waggoner would go to .-------:::-:-":"tT::----­
WASHINGTON [AP] -One of Jimmy Carter's biggest stumbling blocks in shaping economic policy next year is likely to be the Federal Reserve Board and its strong-will­ed chairman, 72-year-old Arthur F. Burns. 
Carter and Burns have sharply different views on inflation and unemployment, and which is worse for the country. Carter also wants changes in the Fed's operations and the status of its chairman. 
Through its control of the Ameri­can monetary system, the Fed influences interest rates and the money supply. Carter says he wants the Fed to wield that influence to speed up the economy and reduce unemployment. This can be done without adding to inflation, the president-elect says. 
But people who know Burns say he remains convinced that inflation is the chief threat to the nation's economy, and they say it is highly unlikely he would suddenly switch signals just to suit Carter. 
Carter can't remove Burns, be­cause Burn's term as chairman doesn't expire until Jan. 31, 1978. A source close to Burns said there is almost no chance Burns will step down early. 
None of the terms ofthe other six members of the board will expire until 1978 either, so Carter will be unable to change the makeup of the Fed unless there is an early ;esignation. 
Burns' first public reaction to the election and what it means for the Fed probably will come when he appears before the Senate Banking Committee on Nov. 11 to disclose the Fed's latest money supply growth targets. 
As of Thursday, there had not yet been any contact between Burns and the president-elect. 
Carter announced Thurs­day night he may consider a tax cut to stimulate the economy when-he takes office in January. Burns opposed President Ford's 1975 tax reductions and was accused by some members of Congress ot offsetting the cuts by withdrawing money from the economy. 

Burns denied to Congress he had done that, but it was nevertheless true that money policies remained tight, which could have negated the effect of the tax cuts. 
The Federal Reserve Board acts to influence the money supply and interest rates by putting money into the economy, or taking it out, through the purchase or sale of 
• 
~overnment securities. Actual·· 
' 
' 

The Notre Dame President also On campus issues, Hesburgh praised Carter's running mate, announced several forthcoming Walter Mondale, describing the improvements, citing the Depart­Minnesota Senator as "a good and ments of Engineering, Art and decent man who's really sincere Chemistry as the major benefici­about helping the poor." He added aries. He 1 o mentioned the he has no reservations whatsoever possibility of another high-rise about Mondale's ability to serve as dormitory in the not-too-distant President, pointing out that four of future. the last six vice-presidents have Near the end of his two-hour proceeded to the Presidency. visit, one student mentioned the 
Hesburgh also praised Carter's possibility of a Hesburgh post in opponent, President Ford. "It is the Carter Cabinet, possibly as indeed remarkable," he said, "that Secretary of Health, Education, President Ford was able to get 48 and Welfare. percent of the vote. He came into "When you get to my age," he office at one of the worst periods of responded, "you live from day to American presidential history, and day. I've been at Notre Dame for he's done a lot to change that. The twenty-eight years. and I believe in man deserves a medal." The what we're doing here. I don't students nodded their heads in know what tomorrow will bring, but agreement with Hesburgh as he I do know that at Notre Dame we concluded, "History will be kind turn out 1600 people every year to Gerald Ford." that are going to be heard from," 
On other topics, Hesburgh ex­he concluded. pressed his discontent with the current tax and welfare systems. Carter not impliedHe pointed out that, in his opinion, 
"We've got a better tax system in Guam than we do in the United 


Song glorifies Hillbilly President 
States. Simplicity is the solution. 
Other promises with a hillbilly Kaymond, who's never recordedby Joe EdwardsThe current tax code is a three president, according to the song, a hit, believes Carter supportersAssociated Press Writer volume, 1700-page monster. It include citizens band radios in will like the record and not resent 
shoUI ; he Jne page," Hesburgh pickup trucks, country music for the world 'hillbilly."
NASHVILLE, Tenn. [AP] -Fried

declareu. He also criticized the disc jockeys to play and 25-cent "He (Carter) projects a country
chicken every Sunday and "Green

welfare system. beer. image," Raymond said. "He's not
Acres" on all-night television? 
Country music singer Dolly Par-exactly the executive type. Be­Nashville the nation's capital? It's ton would be sent to Spain as an sides, a hillbilly is a farmer fromall suggested in a new country ambassador and fomrer partner Michigan." 

Portugal. And "freaks" would be "That's what we need in the 
made to cut their hair. 
White house-a hillbilly," said Jeff

targets for interest rates and the Some stations have refused to
Raymond, the man who recorded 

money supply are set by the play the song, claiming it is
the new country song. "A regular

Federal Open Market Committee. political.
guy who works."
People such as AFL-CIO Presi­. "But they play records support­dent George Meany and Sen. The song was written last spring mg rape, alcohol, adultery andHubert Humphrey, D-Minn., say before Jimmy Carter of Plains, Ga., 

even murder," Raymond said. 

the unchallenged power over mo­became the frontrunner for the ''The closest thing to that in my ney and interest rates makes the Democratic nomination. There's song is beer for a quarter. ThisFed chairman the most powerful nothing in the song directly sug­wouldn't offend anyone." 
person in the country. gesting Carter. Carter's best hope for winning • • Alabama Gov. Wall ace was still changes appears to rest with the in the race then and I think 
Kinsy-Kremen

next Congress, which will consider Washington Sen. Henry Jackson new regulations for the Fed as part was the front-runner." said Ray­of the proposed Humphrey-Hawk­mond, 34, who wrote· the song gallery Nov. 7-28 ins iobs bill. along with Alan Ray. 
A joint exhibition featuring oil paintings by Doug Kinsy, associate professor of art, and stoneware by


Rhodesia blacks threaten 
Bill Kremen, assistant professor of art, will open on Sunday, Nov. 7, in the Local Artists Gallery of the Art


to walk out on talks 
GENEVA, Switzerland [AP] -A proposal by Britain to set March 1978 as a target date for black majority rule in Rhodesia caused the chief negotiator for the break­away African colony's black guer­rillas to threaten to walk out of the black-white settlement talks. 
"Never," Robert Mugabe ex­claimed yesterday when he emerg­ed from the conference room. "It has to be 12 months or we go." 
Leaders of the three other black delegations also resisted the com­promise proposal by British confer­ence chairman Ivor Richard for a 17-month timetable for transition from the white minority govern­ment to black rule. Rhodesia's population is made up of 278,000 whites and 6.4 million blacks. 
The blacks, politically divided on other issues, all have insisted that Britain should reassert legal auth.­ority _over Rhodesia and formally declare it an independent state ­ruled by blacks -in a maximum of one year. 
The white Rhodesians, who de­clared unilateral independence in 1965, have insisted on a two-year transition period. 
Their chief spokesman, Prime Minister Ian Smith, said in Salis­bury, his capital, that there was "a Jot of acting going on in Geneva at the moment and the mass com­munications media seem to have fallen tor this. My view is that they have been taken for a ride." 
Richard acknowledged that his compromise solution had failed to win support. The British said 17 months were needed to complete the complex administrative and constitutional attangements that must precede a transfer of British Center, 121 N. Lafayette Blvd., and continue until Sunday, Nov. 28. 
sovereignty. 
Gallery hours are Tuesday ­

The United Sates, working in the Saturday 9-5 p.m. and Sundays 2 background, has been conducting a -5 p.m. discreet diplomatic operation back­ing up Britain's search for a 
Thanksgiving with the Notre Dame
black-white accord. 
Credit Union 
Ambassador William Schaufele, 
See ND-vs-So. Cal at Los Angeles. 
special envoy for Secretary of State 
Nov. 24 -Nov. 28 ­
Henry A. Kissinger, is leading the 
Complete trip: 4 nights and 5 days. $275.00. For more info: ·
campaign to help break down years 283-6611'of distrust and suspicion that have built up between the blacks and 
whites and to keep their leaders talking. 

! ----TIMM -PARTY STORE· : Communication :oPEN: MON-SAT 9 am-Il pm! presents problem .,: SUNDAY I2 noon-II pm •
• 

in marriages • COLD BEER, PACKAGE LIQUOR,! 
•
MADISON, Wis. [AP] -Most • WINE, GOURMET FOODS : 
married couples don't listen to each • 
other. and many get into fights as a • 3II4 S. II ST. NILES, MIemGAN: 
result, says a professor ~ho helps • 1 BLOCK NO OF IND -MICH STATE LINE ONUs 31• 
couples learn to commumcate bet· ~ • • • • • 
ter. . •••• •••••• • •• ••·•••• •• • • • • •• • • • •
"The one thing that's real impor-' tant is accuracy," said Jeff Edel, ,________..,...'0-"_:::::>oj____~......,-------=--­
son, a University of Wisconsin 1 social scientist. f 
"Very often one person will say something to the other when the other is busy, they'll both assume something on tliat basis, and as a result nobody did the shopping when each of them thought the other would do it," he said. 

Edelson, who oversees "couple communication" classes aimed at easing marital strife, said hus­bands and wives often misunder­stand each other by trying to work out major decisions in piecemeal conversations. /{ 
nJA
.. •, -. ...~,.......• 
-.-~ .. L ,• ,. 0 0 o • ~ ,_!..,.':'
. ·,•,
• ' ~-• "" _f; •• 
.~. ' !"'"• 
--~-----~--­

FR. THEODORE HESBURGH 
FAS 
TYPEWRITER REPAIR 


Ft!=yt•P 
2915 Mishawaka Ave. 
-
•
RESTAURANT 410 ll Hill Street. South ltfttl-233-2267 

ALL NEW 
Less thaa 2Minutes fro• 1.8. oa I. Hill SL DeliciOus Italian lood 
Elegant Atmosphere Cocktail Lounge
•
Open 4 p.111. lon. thn Sit.
,_lleltl:...& , ...,._ 


129 North Michic;~an 234-1431 Downtown South Bend Across from the Big Hole 
FRI., NOV. 5 SAT.~NOV. 6 Kentucky Shore 
.ro ·"!:' , • , 1. b.i~ '.' · '" , 


Friday, November 5, 1976 the observer 
5 






Phelps covers b-ball, education and college life 
by Mike Towle freshman class had to be place9 to attract top prospects. Playing with David Thompson and from there." Staff Reporter into remedial reading." Recruiting violations Tom Burleson, a pair of illegally­Phelps predicted that the San "I think Notre Dame is second to recruited players, the Wolfpack Francisco game in early March 
Head basketball coach Digger none in what it does for people," "I think that the NCAA is doing served a probation of one year only would be determinant of Irish Phelps discussed education, col-he continued. "The four years that an excellent job of policing schools to come back and win the National hopes for post-season play. lege life and basketball with a you go through at this institution and it has been toughening up its Championship the following year, "This game will be a crucial test group of approximately 25 students should allow you to put things punishments," remarked Phelps. led by those two players. for us and might decide if we get a in Howard Hall. together as a human being so that "In fact, I've actually gone to the "It's like robbing a bank of a playoff bid." stated Phelps. "With 
"There is an academic crisis in when you leave here, you can go NCAA and reported illegal activi­million dollars, serving a year in the reinstatement of dunking in the American educational system," out and change the world." ties of other schools. This is not prison and then getting out and college ball, you'll see some great said Phelps. "We have to take a "Of the top 75 high school squealing, it's doing what I believe keeping the money,'' he explained. dunking this year. especially look at what is happening in basketball playing seniors in the in. If I hear uf something about Phelps also described the twc against San Francisco with Bill schools and what we find is that country this year, we have already another school, I will turn them in. freshmen recruits, Rich Branning Cartwright. There might be some there are probably too many eliminated 53 because they do no1 College sports is a business and I and Bill Hanzlik. glass shattered in that contest." highly-paid administrators and too qualify for admission here." The have to protect myself.'' "Branning is a guard and Hanz­few teachers. A couple of years ago coach also expressed his disdain for Phelps cited the case of North lik is a swing man. They are both Officials Incompetent at Berkeley, 47 percent of the schools that employ illegal tactics Carolina State several years ago. excellent players and should see a 
lot of playing action." admitted "I think most basketball officials
Pole uses rye 'gun' Phelps. "These were the only two are incompetent because of their players we took last year because lack of consistencv.'' declmed we didn't know that we would be Phelps. "I was fairly quiet la!!t year
Airplane hijacked with bread 
missing Bill Laimbeer and Bernard regarding technicals. but I get too Rencher in addition to Adrian involved in games to remain 
VIENNA, Austria [AP) -A young Police armed with machine guns grenade and pistol were made of Dantley. '' quiet." Pole being deported from Denmark ringed the plane of Poland's LOT partially chewed rye bread colored Phelps added that this year is not Basketball fans across the coun· wielded dummy weapons made of airline as it landed at Vienna'a with shoe polish. a rebuilding year for the Irish. try will have an opportunity to view bread colored with shoe polish to Schwechat Airport, but the hijacker In Cophenhagen, Karasinski had "This team has an excellent the Irish on television five times 
hijack a Polish airliner yesterday immediately surrendered and was been escorted to the airliner by two attitude and should take off where during this season. The thrt•e and force it to land in Vienna, taken into custody. Danish police officers. But the we left off last season," he games that were televised last year officials said. Police indentified the man as bread "weapons" did not register declared. "Our first month, when received excellent ratings. cven 
Andrzej Jaroslaw Karasinski, 20, on airport metal detectors and were we play the likes of Maryland, higher than the two most attractive who they said had been ordered not found in a search before he 'Indiana, UCLA and Kentucky, will games that the pros had to offer. deported back to Poland after boarded the plane. tell us what we can do. All we care ''The college game is mort•
Laundry proposal serving a four-month prison term in Austrian authorities declined to about is eventually making the appealing to the fans than the pro 
Denmark for burglary, theft and comment on whether Karasinski NCAA playoffs and then taking it game," Phelps remarked. [continued from page 1) forgery. would be sent back to Poland or still receive a $2.60 allotment. The incident marked the second tried on hijacking charges in Aus­
Soma expressed optimism about hijacking within a week involving tria. the proposal that will be going to an airliner of one of the Eastern the University officers. "I think European Communist countries. A Gordon to give
what we submitted gave a clear Czechoslovak plane was hijacked to 
picture of the students' needs and Munich last Friday. keynote address desires," he said. "I'm pretty Authorities said yesterday's hi­hopeful. The response of the jacking occurred while the Polish at Texas meeting people I talked to was pretty airliner, a Soviet-made TU-134 Dr. Robert E. Gordon, vice good." carrying 29 passengers, was flying president for advanced studies at . 
"I think it will solve the prob­over Polish territory on a flight Notre Dame, will deliver the key­lems of men coming into the dorm from Copenhagen to Warsaw. note address at the 27th annual and having to go off campus,'' said A passenger who had sat next to meeting of the American Associa­
Tracy Kee, president of Farley the hijacker said Karasinski brand­tion for Laboratory Animal Science. Hall. "I think it is a good idea." ished what appeared to be a hand to be held in Houston, Texas, Nov. 
Sorin Hall President Davie Ben­grenade and a pistol as he quietly 7-12. der expressed his satisfaction with handed a stewardess a written note Gordon is president of the Amer­the proposal. "I talked to alumni threatening to blow up the plane ican Institute for Biological Sci­
over the break and they said it unless it was diverted to Vienna. ences. More than 1,500 medical, should have come a long time When the plane landed at the dental and veterinary scientists ago." Austrian capital, passengers said, from throughout the world are 
Bender also indicated that one of Karasinski quickly got up from his expected to attend the meeting. the suggestions before the final seat, grab~d his suitcase, nodded proposal was approved was to politely a · id good-bye to fellow Gallery features install washers and dryers in the passenger , hen left the plane and basement of certain halls. He immediately surrendered to wait­Hoffman exhibits 
remarked that it was decided that ing police. 
An exhibition of American con­
"a central location would be best." Police said it was found the hand temporary art on loan from the Nancy Hoffman Gallery in New York City will open with a public reception at the Notre Dame Art
Social science meeting held 
Gallery at 2 p.m. Sunday, Nov. 7. Illustrating many of the impor­A conference of the Philosophy of Scientific Knowledge" by Mary tant trends in contemporary art of the Social Sciences, sponsored Hesse, Cambridge University pro­today, the show focuses on photo­by the philosophy department at fessor of history and philosophy of graphic image paintings and the Notre Dame began last night and science. Dr. Gary Gutting of Notre so~called photorealism. The exhibi­will continue this afternoon. Dame's philosophy department will tion wiii be on display until January 
be the commentator.
Dr. Charles K. Wilber, chairman 
of the Department of Economics,
opened the conference last evening d' i' with a discussion of "Ideology and o?~~~c~IT~:~~;: aRe.~~~~foct;~o~~ ~ H
Theory-Assessment in Eco-~ 
0

nomics." Commentators at the Habermas" at 2 p.m. m the faculty~
lounge. Participants in a panel Around 
program were Rev. Ernan McMul­lin, professor of philosophy. and ~.~si~~:~~ohny ~.~~~~.e~~~j~~: G.J:i~~~: TI. cke't SaIes ~ 
Dr. David J. Lewis, assistant ~ • the WOrld m·
s1ty of Cahforma at Davis; and professor of sociology. Fabio DaSilva, sociology, Edward • I' Today's sessions are in the Manier, philosophy and Francis '· 80 da UU i(faculty lounge of Memorial Library Fiorenza, theology, all of, Notre i' ys••.. 


M~'y·~··;pp~i;rt~d acting ~ 
Nov. 8 -12 travel management director~ At Student Union 
Dr. Edward J. Mayo, associate research and the psychotogy of i' professor marketing management, travel. Mayo serves in an advisory ~ 

Ticket Office
has been appointed acting director capacity to several public and ~ of the Hayes-Healy Travel Man-private organizations, including ~ agement Program, announced Discover America Travel Organi-~ Brother Leo V. Ryan, dean of the zation, National Restaurant Associ-i' NOV. 15 . 19 College of Business Administra-ation, American Hotel and Motel tion. Association, Old West Trail Found-
The travel program was endowed ation and others.. He rece!ved a 
At Student Union by John Francis and Ramona dpoctorsal deugr7e ~~t "!ar1k9e7tlongftat Hayes Healy of Chicago in 1966 en~ tate mversl Y m a ~r Ticket Office and 
. t d busl'ness admini-earmng bachelor and master s 
an m ro uces d t V'II d u · · 
stration students to the travel egreesa 1 anov.a an mvers1ty 
d Dining Halls. 
. d t C are taught in of Alaska, respectively. 
m us ry. ourses M H 1 h b · · 
travel managemept, travel market-th trs. ~ady as. eCeh~ acttv7 m 
· h 1 f travel hotel e rave1m ustry m 1cago smce
0 0

mg. psyc ogy ' 1923 Th 'ft f h d h
q · · t tioJI ·and economic. and . . . ·-_ e gl. o er . an er a Ft~ ra · · aphy husband to Notre ·name resulting .' • .• -~ .. ' I cu u ra geogr · in the 1969 construction of the 
A recognized authority on travel Hayes-Healy Center. 
***** 


~ --~ -_..---~~---~----,,~----~......,P-..__.."::_~oz..,:sc:.-:,.,.jO!""---.......
i£""<"""<"" 



~*The Observer 
anindependentstudentnewspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of NotrP Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily rt>flect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their <~uthor'>. Column space is available to all members of the comrnunrty, and letters are encouraged to promote the free Pxpression of varying opinions on campus. 
Business Manager Tom Fronczak Advertising Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor Tony Chifari Production Manager Martha L Fanning 
Friday, November 5, 1976 
~ 

Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 _ Phones: (219) 283-8661 [NO] (219) 284-5365 [SMC] 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Thomas O'Neil  Editor-in-Chief  
Dan Sanchez  Managing Editor  
Chris Smith  Asst. Managing Ed.  
Cregg Bangs  Executive Editor  
Val Zurblis  Executive Editor  
Pat Hanifin  Editorial Editor  
Bob Mader  Exec. News Editor  
Maureen Flynn  Campus Editor  
Marti Hogan  St. Mary's Editor  
Don Reimer  Copy Editor  
Tim O'Reiley  Features Editor  
Fred Herbst  Sports Editor  




P. 0. BoxQ 
hours of labor and great amounts of groups are, or would wish the
Sorin Seven money for paneling, mirrors and public to bt!. For one thing, I in this case, a bar. Making a ·room hardly see where Indiana is repre­more than liveable takes time and sentative of all SO states, so I don't money. Now, these seven students see how these two elections are forced off-campus must repeat indicative of how "most voting
Speak 

their efforts of the beginning of Americans" feel. Setember in the middle of the As long as he chose these two semester. A personal and monetary elections, however, I feel closerDear Editor: drain of this type, on the students, examination is necessary. Birch cannot be justified. Bayh won over Dick Lugar in 1974 The recent application of the When considering the facts in by not more than 4 percent. (52-48 I University's power to "transfer a this issue, there is no way one can believe), so to say that election is student's residence" should put condone the injustice rising from indicative of anything seems pretty
quite a scare into a majority of Dean Roemer's decision. Although silly to me. The only thing it students living on campus. The the Dean states his action is not a showed me is that the man, who alle~ed activities whicfi led to the disciplinary one, it is unequivocally canned the Buckley Amendment, is banning of the ''Sorin Seven'' are clear these students have been on pretty shaky ground in his home not uncommon practices for a lot of labeled with the unfair and erro­-state. Mr. Brademas on the other 
other, though less scrutinized. 
neous brand of "troublemakers." hand, won a smashing victory over groups in the Notre Dame com­Even if this administrative .deci­his opponent Virginia Black, a localmunity. 
sion was unavoidable, it seems housewife. But really Mr. Ken­The life style of the ejected Dean Roemer should have pursued nelly, don't you think her anon­students may have been considered a more conservative and judicious ymity might have had a little to do slightly hedonistic and les~ than 
path of execution. with it? 
condusive to the monotonous at­Speaking of housewives though,
mosphere which usually permeates Patrick Mannion does bring to mind the candi­-Arnold Gough the campus, but it certainly was not dacy of Ellen McCormick, who
detrimental to, or infringing upon, Tony Miller gained 3 percent of the vote in the
the respective life styles of their Bill Tomkiewicz Massachusetts primary in March,
hall mates. Otherwise, these seven John Van GUder winning one delegate. I fullywould have been ostracized by Michael Thomassen realize that one delegate is hardly a their neighbors long before the significant numbet but I make the
administration got around to it. Counter­point because that was the same Accusing a student of occasional 
number woh by Bayh. Running in 
use of fireworks and throwing of the nation's most liberal state,water balloons seems 'like flimsy 

Arguments 
Bayh, nationally prominent liberal reasons to force him to move off that he is, could only collar one campus. If this type of activity delegate, while a previously un­were always punished by such Distorted known housewife from Long Island severe measures, quite a few did as much. Now that says more people would have to greatly curtail to me than the 1974 elections about Dear Editor: their extra-academic "fun". Fire­Birch Bayh.
works will be hidden and balloon In replying to my letter of the The other isolated example I fmd sales will plummet, there use solely 29th, Matt Kennelly makes a few fault with is the use of Sweden's 
reserved for decorations and by statements with which I take 
legalizing abortion to show that it is female impersonators. exception. While they don't dem­
not as "purely moral" an issue as I It is disturbing to know that one onstrate the flair for ridiculous claim. Did the Nazi justification of may receive a call on a Thursday comparisons possessed by Mr. 
mass exterminations make theand be expected to find a house and Herbig (the author of the original 
killing of innocent human life any move off campus by the following letter I criticized), they clearly less of a "moral" issue. I also was
Sunday. To add insult to injury. you show a talent for isolating indivi­not aware that the Swedish gov­
are ordered to never again to set dual events and distorting their was the of
ernment in practicefoot in your hall during the remain­significance. The result, I find dictating the world's morals, soder of your undergraduate career. every bit as humorous. 
he'll have to forgive me for not Never again can you visit the Mr. Kennelly contends that "the 
staying on top of world politics.people you knew in your hall, most failure of local anti-abortion groups 
I've been so busy trying to make of whom came to your defense to defeat John Brademas and Birch heads or tails out of Bayh and Co. 
when the dedsion to force you to Bayh in 1974 shows that !lJOSt 
that I haven't had the time. move was made. voting Americans are not com­Consider the amount of time and mitted to an anti-abortion amend­Brian M. Clancy money put into fixing up a room; ment to the extent that right-to-life 

'''PSSST!II 

DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
WliU, I'VC efJTTA eo tNTER.VtW me L/T7l.E l.ADY IN 
THE WINNER'5 Ot<a£.. 
\ 

opinion !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 


Toilet Paper 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii john at1 drew 
My father always told me that if I think are doing thb?" I asked. was ever in the danger of flunking "The radicals, the ones that out, I should try to know a couple of don't look like the rest of us." He big-shots to better my chances of pointed to ten pictures on the wall. staying in. With that in mind, I ''The most important thing that the became friendly with. Fr. Herman admission office looks at is whether Irishway who was the assistant to a freshman candidate looks like one the assistant groundskeeper. He ofthese 'ideal student' pictures set happened to call me into his office by the board of trustees. If he the other day. does, he gets in. The only problem 
"Would you like a drink," is that a few different ones get by." Irishway asked me after I sat down "How do they do that?" across from his desk. "It's free. "They send in aJ fake picture. We just got it from the Doo Drop We are trying to stop that practice, Inn." but anybody can cut a picture out C?f 
"No thank you," I said. any of our yearbooks.'' 
"Thank God for that raid the "Don't you have any 'ideal other day. My supply of whiskey students' pictures for girls?" I was getting low." he said. "Look, asked. the reason I asked you to come in is "We use the same ones. We that Notre Dame has a very serious didn't want to take new pictures problem, almost as serious as when when we went co-ed. After all, 
Fr. Hesburgh's passbook expired these pictures were only taken in and he was stuck here for two the forties and ... " weeks. He almost died of bore­" ...we must always cut costs," I dom." filled in. 
"But like I was saying, we have a "Yes, yes, you got it now,"'he serious problem." He leaned beamed at me. "But these radicals towards me and asked confiden­are costing us money. My boss tially, "Do you know anything tells me that they don't belong in about toilet paper?" • this utopia of Christ that we have "Yes," I said, "I know what it's here, and that bastard is giving me used for." hell to make them get out." 
"Good, I'm glad. Then your "Well, what do you want me to mission should be a lot easier." do?" ' "What mission?" "We want to know who is "The mission to find out where stealing the toilet paper. We have 
all the toilet paper is going. Did tried everything. We thought you know that last week we went about making the students pay a through so much that we didn't deposit on the paper that we would even have enough for the Provost give back when they turn it back in. office?" But we didn't know how to handle 
''Maybe it was because of the the machanics of it. And we food the dining halls served," I thought about chaining it down. 
said. But what we want you to do is to "No, it is the faculty and the sneak around the rest rooms and off-campus students stealing it for get the names and addresses of 
their own use. We lose so much these students. If you have to steal money every year because of this their notebooks or •purses to do that we could commission the same this, go right ahead. The ends architect who designed O'Shaugh­justify the means, or something nessy Hall to do another building like that." 
for us." "What will I get out of this?" "That must be a lot of money," I "Whatever you want," he said. said. "How about a hundred rolls of "Yes, it is, at least thirty dollars. toilet paper?" And it seems even more when you "What would you do with all of know that we get a hundred rolls that?" he asked. for a dollar." "I'm going to stamp 'NOTRE 
"No wonder it's so rough." DAME' on them and sell it to the 
"Well, we do have to ke_!!p costs . alumni before the Alabama game,'' low to be able to buy new uniforms I said. "I'm a little short of every year for the football team,'' money." Irishway apologized. "But we got "You got them" he said as he to stop these thieves. I can led me to the door. "That's the understand the faculty's action, sort of clean ideas we like our what with the salaries we pay them students to come up with. Just be 
but there is now excuse for the sure that you are not competing students. After all, you got to be against the bookstore and we could rich to afford Notre Dame now." be friends for a long time." 
"What kind of students do you My .father would have loved it. 

., 
About two o'clock Thursday morning, as I was assisting O'Gill in his role as the Toots Shor of Darby's Place, a young lovely named Fran brought me a piece of driftwood that had lately lain on a beach in Maine. It was an old piece of tree, gray and weather-beaten, with branches jutting out in several directions, and it had the shape of a small gull with outstretched wings. "Because you couldn't get home to M~>ine for the break," Fran said, "I thuught I would bring a piece of Maine to you." It was the second gift from the Maine coast I have received in a week; the other being a lovely painting in oils of a quiet cove by the ocean near Ogunquit, with hints and boats and a fisherman's shack, and the sea and sky touching each other on the far horizon. The painting was the work of an Irish artist who specializes in scenes from the coasts of Maine and Galway, and was sent to me by Martha Fanning's mother, as a reminder of the beauty that a Maine boy grows up with. Perhaps my mind is, at times, a little too God-haunted, but such gifts from the shore seem as much like religious symbols to me as crucifixes' do. Perhaps that is from having lived so close to a grandmother who 
, <'constantly reminded us that ''Time and tide wait for no man", so that for me as a child, life itself seemed like a voyage moving irresistibly onto the heavy seas that lost their terror as one met the Lord, in captain;s cap and seaman's jacket, keeping the night-watct against monsters. 
There is a legend in Maine of an Ancient Mariner who brings tidings from the sea; he is bestknownto the women living on that rugged coast, waiting for their menfol~ to come home. "I saw him once," my grandmother told me. "Your grandfather had gone with the fishermen to the Grand Banks off ,Newfoundland. We had been expecting them back with their catch for nearly a week, but we heard that all the boats in the fishing fleet had been smashed into by a fierce storm. The boats, when they finally came into port, were silhouett­ed in ice, wnere the rain had frozen on the masts and the rigging. We waited for your grandfather's vessel, which still ,hadn't made it home to port, and all of us who would have been made widows and 
orphans by a disaster, were filled with fear. I, as a child would say: "Nana, who do 


The Entertainment Week 
By Dauid 0 'Keefe 
ON THE TUBE 
Friday, NovemberS . Play It Again, Sam (9:30PM, Channel22): Woody Allen is at his funniest as Allan Felix, an incredibly inept man who wants to meet girl~ badly, which is just what he does. He Is saved from total failure when the ghost of Humphrey Bogart appears to advise him on how to handle the ladies. 
Saturday, November 6 NCAA Football (2:15 PM, 28): Keith Jackson and Ara Parseghian report live from the Gator Bowl in Jacksonville, Florida as the Georgia Bulldogs, ranked 7th in die nation, take on the tenth-rated Florida Gators. WSND Sportscaster Frenchie Hess assures that the winner of this "pivotal conference clash" will claim the SEC crown and go on to'the Sugar Bowl to face the Irish. Notre Dame Football (1:30 PM, 16): Before they begin entertaining hopes of a Sugar or any other bowl bid, the Irish still have a few tough games left. This isn't one of them, however, as Georgia Tech takes on Notre Dame in Atlanta. The Yellow Jackets are a disappointing 3-5 on the season, but don't ever underestimate Pepper Rodger's ability to pull an upset. 
Sunday, November 7 NFL Football: Sunday's slate begins with the Cardinals meeting the Eagles in Philadelphia. (1:00PM, 22). The Oakland Raiders travel to Chicago to take on the Bears, , upset winners last week over Minnesota and still very much in conten­tion for the NFC Central title (1:00 PM, 22). In that same division, the Lions and Vikings will be slugging it out in Blooming­ton in a typical Black and Blue rivalry. (4:00 PM, 22) 
Gone With the Wind (Part I-8:00PM, 16; Part II-Monday, 8:00PM, 16): David 0. 
4 ,
f 

Friday, November 5, 1976 the observer 
Letters to a Lonely God 
A j


Driftwood 
~ 
''Then one evening during this time,'' she said, "when the children were asleep, I was keeping watch with my Bible, and a knock came on the door. It was a sailor who knocked. He asked me if I had heard from my husband. I said no, I had not heard, and I was very much afraid for him and the other fishermen. Then the stranger asked if he could come in and pray with me. I couldn't turn away a stranger who wanted to pray; so he came in, and we knelt down, and he asked me to read the 107th Psalm. 
Ttky that go down to the sea in 
ships, and occupy their business in 
grtjat waters; 
These men see the works ofthe Lord, 
and his wonders in the deep. 
For ,at his word the stormy wind 
ariseth, which lifteth up the waves 
theteof. 
The,Y are carried up to the heaven; 
and' down again to the deep; their 
soul melteth away because of the 
trouble. 
They reel to and fro, and stagger like 
a drunken man, and are at their wit's 
end. 
So when they cry unto the Lord in 
their trouble, he delivereth them out 
of their distress. 
For he maketh the storm to cease, so 
that the waves thereof are still. 
Then are they glad, because they are 
at rest; and so he bringeth them unto 
the haven where they would be. 
0 that men would therefore praise 
the Lord for his goodness; and 
declare the wonders that he doeth for 
the children of menI 
"When I had finished, he said to me: 'Whoso is wise, will ponder these things; and they shall understand_ the loving-kind­ness of the Lord.' The words were the same words as the last verse of the Psalm. 
"When he rose to go, I said to him: 'Who are you?' He said: 'I have friends who are fishermen, and they knew you were worried.' He touched my hands with his hands, and his hands looked as though they might once have suffered. 
"The next morning," she said, "Your grandfather's vessel came home to port with all hands aboard and safe." 

Selznick's mammoth classic comes to the 21-inch screen at last. Clark Gable as Rhett Butler and Vivian Leigh as the fiery Scarlet O'Hara are unforgettable in this 1939 romance, the setting of which is the Civil War South. It is truly one of the finest American movies .ever made: a~d after almost 40 years sttll ranks th1rd m gross 1 receip~s. It m~y be agonizing!~ long as a televisiOn offermg (3 hours tomght and 2 hours tomorrow), but one shouldn't miss it. The burning of Atlanta and Rhett's final scene are classic pieces of footage, and the entire movie is as adept at depicti9g the 
horrors of war as it is in telling its story. 

I

Reverend Robert Griffin ~ I 
you think the stranger was?" 
"I only know," she said, "that he had hands that looked as though they might once have suffered.'' She never explained how those hands may have suffered; but afterwards, I saw driftwood on the beach in a shape that reminded me of hands that might have suffered. 
"Was he very old, Nana?" I would ask, trying to guess what the age of an Ancient Mariner could be. 
"Old?" she would say. "He wasn't old at all. His face was young, and his eyes were young, but there was a wisdom in him that made it seem he must have lived for a very long time, to have grown to be so wise." 
When I asked my grandfather if he had met the Ancient Mariner, he would say: "That's a woman's story, boy. He's seen mostly by women-folk when they're asleep and dreaming." 
"George," my grandmother would say, "I've heard my own father tell stories of the stranger who visits widows who have lost kinfolk at sea." 
"leaving behind him damp bits of seaweed?" said my grandfather mocking­ly. "Seaweed of a kind found only on the ocean's floor? I've heard those stories, too; but they belong fu yarns told in barrooms by drunken old salts trying to frighten each other to death at midnight. They don't belong in the imagination of a child." 
My grandmother would sniff as though to say she knew and was impressed by the experience of people who had seen the truth. Grandmother was the believer in our family, the Christian who kept the faith and read the Bible. I wondered if she had ever seen seaweed from the ocean's floor after she had lost kinfolk at sea, when their ships went down. I asked her about it once, and she said only "driftwood". Maybe it was from hearing her say that word, without explanation, that I began to think of driftwood as another kind of sign that ancient mariners leave behind them as evidence. 
Magnificent Meals in Michiana 

By Tim O'Reiley 
Those who knew the Wooden Keg in its salad days realize the mammoth barrel hoops that Mr. John's must fill. In its time, the Keg could be tapped for wme of the finest fare in Michiana;ii was a spigot that everyone wanted to turn on and drink from. Though Mr. John's took over the building (1611 S. Main), it would have to go to great plates to match his predeces­sor's: excellence. 
The early omens did not bode well for the new venture, however. No hostess awaited at the reception desk, causing us to wait, and wait, and wait ... before we finally seated ourselves. Following this gaffe, the service redeemed itself by the attentiveness and well-timed visits of the waiter. 
Once seated, only a forlorn basket of crackers loitered on the table, unaccom­panied by any kind of cheese of spread. In fact, the closest thing to bread came in the form of the large crouton in the French onion soup. Man does not live by bread 1lone, but not including it with the meal consitutes an error of serious portions, one that would start riots in places like· France. 
While there was little on the table to tame the growling stomach, the general decor of the dining room was pleasant enougJt. Tree trunks, plants and the tastefully plain-patterned china affected a rustic look on the interior. Mr. John'• looks small from the outside, but actually contains several rooms, including a bar with a babbling brook, all attired in similar sytle. 
Returning to the eating at hand zeroed attention on the somewhat limited menu, offering almost as many appetizers as entrees (about a' dozen each). The latter ranged from steak and fish plates to a few other meat dishes. Special guest gourmet Morris Alan Blinder I raised the dinner .::urtain with French onion soup ($1.00) one that put on spicy yet good performance. The vegetable soup with chicken broth that I chose (also $1.00) was only warm and generally uninspiring. 
j

My grandfather was twenty years retired from the sea, before he died in Maine in 
l

1941. Often, in those years of retirement, 
l

he would go to the park overlooking the Portland harbor, and he would spend hours 
l

gazing out at the sea. He went there a final 
l

time just a few days before his death. 
~ 

When he came home that afternoon, he said to my grandmother: 4 j"I saw a shipmate in the park this 
I

afternoon. He reminded me of the visitor 
j

you're always telling the boy about. I have 
I 

seen him from a distance manv times 
l

before, but today he looked like someone you might know.'' 
I

"George." said my grandmother. "Did 
j

you look at his hand?" 
I

"Yes," said my grandfather. nodding 
j

vigorously. "They wer~ a seaman's hands 
j

with a look about them of having hauled in 
l

many a yard of wet line that cut them to 
i

bits. They looked like hands that have 
l

suffered." 
I

There is no significance that I know of in 
j

my grandfather's meeting a shipmate in 
j

the park that day. except that it couldn't have happened for my grandfather and I were there alone. I remember that it was in November, and the afternoon was l'old; we saw no one, and spoke to no one. The only thing he saw. the only thing he wanted to see, was the blue water off the Maine coast, and the ships moving in the distance, and the sea and sky touching each other on the far horizon, as in a painting done with oils by a Galway artist. To have seen anyone except me, the old 
man must have been asleep and dreaming, like women grown drowsy at their prayers. 
There was driftwood that day in that hillside park, doubtlessly brought up from the bev.ch by children who had been playing there. After th. •t_. -five years, I still remember picking up pieces of driftwood and looking at them. As I said before, to a God-haunted mind like mine, for whom there were parable of faith in the drift of the tides. gifts from the shore such as driftwood seem as much like religious symbols as crucifixes do. 
The salad (in.:luded with the dinner), continued the trend of good, though unspectacular cuisine. Composed of mixed' vegetables (lettuce, carrot, beet), and covered with a dressing that provoked no haljulahs, it offered no reason to delay the coming of the main course. 
In selecting the smaler cut of prime rib 
($6. 75), Mr. Blinder found himself biting off almost more than he could chew. He got a large piece of meat, that he pronounced rather tender and robust, albeit with a trifle too much fat on the edges. Escorting the beef was an ordinary baked potato. 
The lamb ($8. 75) that I chose turned out to be something of a disappointment. The three lamb chops on the plate were arranged in teepee fashion, with a gravy and chopped mushrooms sheltered under them. Here, the excess fat posed logistical difficulties by the third chop as it became harder to maneuver a knife and fork around all the inedible remains. The c~ops themselves were a tad oily and exuded an overall mundane flavor. Perhaps they were frozen meat subjected to ll micro­wave, perhaps not, but they could stand marked improvement. 
The wine Jist was rather comprehensive, offering a fine selection of imports and domestics. 
In addition to the usual desserts avail­able. Mr. John's maintains a pastry tray, substantially more than most South Bend eateries proffer. I had a most delicious petite cake, while Mr. Blinder chose one that was completel1 covered with choco­late. While remarking, "It is a trifle too rich for my poor palate," he nevertheless found his dessert most endearing. 
Unfortunately, the most prominent re­sponse that Mr. John'• provokes is nostalgia. This relatively new establish· ment still has (and will hopefully utilize) time to improve its culinary concoctions. Until then, it is best to retain jpst the memory of what was. 
8 the observer Friday, November 5, 1976 
~----~~~~--~--~-------­

The Entertainment Week 
[continued from page 7] Robert Jr. Lockwood, Little George Smith in Paris: Musical theater is alive and well ly salient statements about urban violence Sunnyland Slim and Fenton Robinson. and living in the Nazz, as Notre Dame's and crime in this 1974 film. Saturday night's edition will feature Lazy Student Players present "a different kind Bill Lucas, a Chicago Blues Jam with of musical" based on the works of French ON CAMPUS Guitar Red and John Wrencher, and last songman Brei. The curtain goes up at 8:30 
but far from least, Albert King. Festival both Friday and Saturday nights, with Midwest Blues Festival: The bellowing passes good for both sessions are well admission set at $1.00. barrelhouse beat of the blues will come worth $7 .00, while a ticket for Friday night 
NashvlUe: Robert Altman's highly-toutedblowing out of Stepan Center for the fifth is $4.00 and admission to the closing film made claims to being a cross-sectional year this weekend. Friday night's line-up session Saturday is SS.OO. 
study of our national culture when it came 
looks like this: Johnny Shines, Magic Slim, Jacques Brei Is Allve and WeD and Uvlng out last year. Despite the fact that there is very little microcosmically American about Nashville or NashvlUe, this is still fine entertainment from one of America's premier moviemakers. (Engineering Audi­
~Observer · 
torium, Friday, 7:00 and 10:00 PM, $1.00) 
: . . FareweU, My Lovely: Robert Mitchum and Charlotte Rampling star in this version of Raymond Chandler's Phillip Marlowe de­tective thrillers. (Saturday and Sunday, 7:00, 9:00 and 11:00 PM, Engineering Auditorium, $1.00) 




·F·eat.ures· 
The New Keenan Review: About two­··• ' . . ... ~ ··' . .~ thirds of the population of Keenan Hall will stage what will hopefully become an 
' ·' ' I ·,1 
annual talent show Saturday night at 8:00
.. .' .. , . 

It's so Sad for Elton John 
By Scott Appleby 

Poor, old Elton John. Symphony Orchestra, and the Captain and attraction for the listener who's heard it Four tedious albums ago, in his first Tenille). Not only are the songs ridiculous­many times before. two-record set, he blessed us with a ly overdone, but the ones lushed up the In "Boogie Pilgrim" Elton offers a poor 
glimpse of a talented artist on the verge of most are the ones that cry out lyrically for imitation of the Bee Gee's poorer imitation a creative breakthrough. Goodbye YeUow the good old days of Elton's piano, Dee's of white soul in order to escape the lyrical Brick Road was a masterful exercise in bass, and Davey's drums. · wasteland. Not even the Cornerstone musical diversity. and quality production; "One Horse Town", a song that runs a lnsitutional Baptist and Southern Californ­as such, it worked well enough to make characteristically long six minutes, evokes ia Choir can rescue Elton from the Bernie Taupin's stale, cliche-ridden lyrics images of the cozy backwoods village. unenviable fate of crooning the words almost believable. Elton ineptly awards it the full big city "Boogie Pilgrim" no less than 35 times in 
Whereas YeUow Brick Road was Elton's treatment, jazzing it up with the cloying sequence. Filler such as "Chameleon" melodic promise to break out of the guest appearance of a synthesizer, tubular ("cum-eel-un", repeated ad nauseam) confining rhetoric of pat rock formula~. bells, and an out-of-place cello solo. This serve only to stretch the album out Blue Moves is the last gasp of an mismatched instrumentation is evident in unbearably. entertainer rendered musically impotent the opening songs of side four. "Where's by his insistence on living off of old the Shoorah?", which reads like a rousing 
Blue Moves does have its memorable standards that worked once, but have remembrance of times past, is translated 
moments, however few and far between. become limp and boring upon ceaseless into a laboriously slow mini-ballad. It is 
The ballad "Idol" is moving and believable repetition. followed by "IfThere'sa God in Heaven", 
because John finally is working with lyricsIronically, the most interesting aspect of an upbeat rocker which proves unfaithful to which he can feel. He sings with this overly long collection of ballads. its subject matter--the injustice of the convincing --and probably sympathetic -­instrumentals, and throwaways is Taupin's world which defies understanding. emotion of a rock idol who has fallen "to subtle realization that the promises of peanuts from lion's share". Two other YeUow Brick Road have been compromised Elton has inherited this problem as a contributions are of note: "Shoulder by the lack of innovative material in the result of working far too long with the 
Holster" works primarily because the 
albums since then. insipid "poetry" of Bernie Taupin. John's 
age-old, jealous-wife-kills-husband tra­sheer talent and craftmanship in songs 
gedy is given an interesting twist and 
Tonight such as "Candle in the Wind" (a eulogy to 
"Wide-Eyed and Laughing" approachesDoes it have to be the old thing? Marilyn Monroe) enabled us to overlook 
the thematic in it's appeal for love not 
Tonight? the trite construction of Taupin's psuedo­based on the performer's fame or success. 
Oh, it's late, too late sensitive lyrics. But, in Blue Moves, Poor, old Elton John. His long reign at To chase the rainbow that you're after Elton's expertise cannot overcome the the top of the rock 'n' roll world appears to I'd like to find a compromise inherent absurdity of a song like "Crazy be over. Until he breaks out of the stylistic 
I 
And place it in your hands. (John/Taupin, Water" (a dim-witted paean to the barriers which he has built, his music will "tonight") allegorical mysteries ofthe deep) or "Cage 
remain a slick, competent cream puff. As the Songbird" in which Elton falls back on 
he ruefully observes in the tender "SorryTo cope with this scarcity of original, handy gimmicks. The syncopated, back­
Seems to be the Hardest Word": exciting material, Elton and the boys ground synthesizer, from Caribou days is employ every instrument that can plausibly now old hat; similarly, the desperate It's sad (so sad) 
fit (including: a triangle, Bell tree, tubular crooning which marked the "ooohh, oooh, It's a sad, sad situation 
bells, a horn section, rototoms, the London oooh, "Don't Shoot Me period holds little And It's getting more absurd. 

Charlotte Rampling in Nashville PM in Washington Hall. There will be raucous and irreverant comedy and some soft rock numbers, but there will also be some excellent performances in a more serious vein, including a violin recital and a barbershop octet. Section parties will precede the event and a dance in the basement of Keenan will follow the show, all of which is being funded by the hall. The men of Keenan are to be commended for their efforts, but more importantly they deserve to be supported. Besides, it might just be a lot of fun. Second City: Firsthand experience enable me to guarantee that this wild bunch will put the Laugh in O'Laughlin like it's never been done before. Blending improvisa­tions and blackouts, Chicago's favorites take on anyone from Edgar Allen Poe to Dinah Shore. They are especially fun for audic~nces because one part of the show is a series of sketches based on the suggestions of people in the crowd. It is a rare opportunity to have them come from Old Town to our town and shouldn't be missed. 
(Saturday, 7:30PM, O'Laughlin Auditor­ium, $1.50 for students and faculty) 
ON THE SCREEN 
Boiler House 1: Mel Brooks' Silent Movie 
(7:30 and 9:30 PM) Boiler House II: The Big Bus (7:15 and 9:15pm) River Park: The Ritz (8:00 and 9:45 PM) Scottsdale: Woodstock (5:05 and 8:25 PM) Town & Country 1: Carrie, the latest psychic study by Brian de Palma (Obses­sion] about an embattle teenage girl with psychic powers who eventually gets even with the kids who torment her. (Call theater for times) Town & Country II: Marathon Man (7:00 and 9:30 PM) • Forum 1: The Front Woody Allen makes his filrst serious performance in this story of a schlemiel who becomes a front for blacklisted screenwriters during the Mc­Carthy reign of terror in the SO's. (7:30 and 9:30PM) Forum II: Shout at the DevU Adventure flick based on the true story about the destruction of a German warship in WWI. Lee Marvin and Roger Moore star. (6:50 and 9:20PM) The Forum Theaters will again run a midnight showing of Slaughterhouse Five at midnight on Friday and Saturday at reduced prices. 
ON THE GROUND 
Snow. 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
SMC Social Commission & Holy Cross Hall 

--The-­

present 


DAME 


Available at The BeforeAnd After 


SECOND 
·The Game 

NOTRE DAME 
COOKBOOK



CITY 
BOOKSTORE 
Contains more than ·........v
Sat., Nov. 6 -7:30 pm 
300 recipes contributed by the faculty and staff of Notre Dame

Olaughlin Auditorium 
Edited by Flo Yeandel $1.50 -Students & Faculty With foreward by $2.50 -General Admission 
Theodore M. Hesburgh 
Tickets are available through 
All royalties from this book accrue to the Notre .., ...,-, ··.-\·... .'. ; , , ,-•· : _.. .• .· ,• ,. .Dame. Ubrary .A.s!Hlciation for:· use,• it:J pun:hasin!!
booRs flu• the Rate liocik's 'Room· · · · · I' 


----~~--~-1 
Friday, November 5, 1976 the observer 9 
l 
I I 
1



Is the ERA in Indiana's future? ~ 
by Marjorie lrr Staff Reporter 

The Equal Rights Amendment has a good chance for passage in the Indiana legislature in 1977, in the opinion of approximately 20 members of the South Bend League of Women Voters who attended an ERA strategy planning session last night at Madeleva Hall. St. Mary's. 
Kathy Barnard, president of the 
----~outh Bend League of Women Voters said that Indiana is a crucial state in the amendment process. 
"We think that if Indiana passes it, then other states will follow. Someone just has to get it started,'' said Barnard. Four states must join the 34 that have already ratified the measure to amend the consitituion. 

The League of Women Voters, said Barnard, "is one of the groups in Indiana which is now planning and coordinating to hopefully see passage ,,of the amendment in January. 
Members at the strategy session discussed the importance of the elections and made plans to gather support of more local legislators. 

Tuesday's election brought pos­itive results to ERA proponents, according to Nancy Kommers of the state board of ERA Indiana. (ERA Indiana is a state-wide, pro-ERA women's coali­tion.) "Chances that the amend­ment will pass are much better this year than they have been before," said Kommers. "Last year, when ERA was proposed, it became 
Husband missing since February 
Wife awaits word from kidnapers 
PERRYSBURG, Ohio [API -For more than eight months, Donna Niehous, wife of an' American executive kidnaped in Venezuela, has been growing angry and living "one day at a time." 
She waits for word of the release of her husband, William F. Nie­hous, searching the day's mail for the letter that isn't there, listening for the phone call that can end the nightmare. 
"Of course I'm bitter. And, I'm angry. I'm very, very angry, but I believe, and will go on believing, that Bill is alive and will come home to us," Mrs. Niehous said in 
an  interview  at  her  suburban  
Toledo  condominium.  She  now  
makes  her  home  there  with  her  

sons David, 16, and Craig 14. Another son, Mark, 19, attends college in Colorado. 
"They held up beautifully and they're still holding up. Their dad would be proud of them. They're the men ofthe house now. They're .resentful, of course. And why wouldn't they be? But we've gone on like this for eight months now and we can keep on because we all believe he is coming back.'' 
NO Jazz Combo performs 
The Notre Dame Jazz Combo performed at Vegetable Buddies in South Bend last ni~ht, in their first regular Thursday night appear­ance. 
The Jazz Combo was awarded the small combo award last year at the Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival. 
MOOt COUrf team 

to face Indiana 

The Notre Dame National Moot Court. team will face opposition from the Indiana University School of Law, Indianapolis branch, in regional competition at the Chicago Civic Center. 
Last year's team was a national­ist finalist. The members of this year's team 
are third year students, Denise
Smith. Jim Foley, Cec McGregor 
and Mark Zeloaras as alternate. Assistant Dean Fernand Dutile is the faculty advisor anq John Mazza 
is the executive director. 

Notre Dame to host debate 

The Notre Dame speech and debate team will host 26 college and university debate teams in the annual University of Notre Dame Na~ional Invitational Debate tour­nament this weekend. 
Among the visiting teams will be Northwestern University, The University of Iowa, Butler Univer­sity, and Carson Newman College. Teams representing over ten state will participate in the tournament. The varsity debate team will not compete. 
The initial round of competition this weekend begins today at 3 
p.m. in O'Shaughnessy. The sec­ond round will also be in O'Shaughnessy, with the finals on ~unday in the Hayes-Healy Center; 
.,.. 
~~':'A~. 
In a voice tight with emotion and say, "we aren't planning to stay almost too low to catch, she out too late, are we?" describes the evening of Feb. 27 Those were his last words to her. when terrorists entered the Nie­The hum of the dryer shut out all hous' suburban home in Caracas, sound. "I heard nothing. All I Venenzuela, and seized her hus­know is. I looked up and a man was band of 22 years, an executive for pointing a machine-gun at me." Owens-Illinois, INc. In communiques with the Vene­
The couple's three sons had left zuelan press, the kidnapers ­the house minutes before. "It was members of a small ultraleftist carnival time inCaracas and Bill guerrilla group -accused Niehous and I were going to a carnival of meddling in Venezuelan affairs. party. I was curling my hair, which Mrs. Niehous insists her hus­I almost never do. Bill was in the band, who was vice-president and bedroom, stretched out, reading general manager of the company's the paper." glass making and sales operations 
As she turned on the hairdryer, in Venezuela, had no political she heard her 45-year-old husband involvement. 
Network news coverage 

influenced assessments 
felevision network new analyses 

•following the presidential debates strongly influenced viewers' assessments of the candidates' performances. according to Dr. Lloyd R. Sloan, assistant professor of psychology. Sloan studied 254 potential voters who watched the second presidential debate on Oct. 6 after indicating their inital pref­erence between President Ford and Governor Carter. One group of these viewers was asked to give a final preference immediately after the debate while two other groups watched network news analysis on CBS and ABC before doing so. 
Among those who watched only the debate, there occured an overall shift of20 percent in favor of Ford, Sloan reported. When those who watched post-debate news analyses were polled, how­ever. shifts of seven percent (CBS) and two percent (ABC) were recor­ded in favor of carter. 
"After the debate itself had its impact for Ford," Sloan ob­served, "the network news c.nal­yses by themselves produced over­all net changes of 27 percent (CBS) and 22 percent (ABC) in the direction of Carter." · Those who viewed the post-
The 

according to Sloan. "There is bias 
in the news media. whether intend­
ed or not," he concluded, "and 
White 
that bias has had a powerful effect 
on viewers and their voting prefer· House 
ences." 
Inn


1977 annual 
debate news analyses saw both as v.isited England for any period of being biased in favor of Carter, ttme.




r----------------,
R · Qff

I 1p the
I I
VILLAGE INN
I ······.....,"~·. '-',.,,,. 1 
with A I I "CRAZY COUPON CAPER" 1I We will accept any type of coupon you can 
1 find and give you $1.00 offon any· I 14" or 16". Thin Crust Pizza or anyI 12" Deep Pan Pizza I OFFER GOOD AT BOTH I VILLAGE INN'S I FROM NOV 1 to NOV 13 
1401 N. Hickory (across from Town and Country)1 · t :tl North at Darden Rd. 
I 
Open 11 am o 12 am · . ~· 11 ~m to 1 am Sat. limit 1 per customer 
· 


-~~····"',I.. ...---­
now available 
The Placement Bureau has re­ceived the 1977 Placement Annual. Students that hav.e registered at the Bureau may pick up the book at the Placement Bureau located in room 213 of the Administration Building. 
November Fiver's to celebrate 
The Fifth of November Society 
will hold their annual celebration 
today at 8 p.m. at the Commons 
House of the Notre Dame Town 
Houses. 
Anyone who has spent a full 
academic year in England is eligi­
ble for full membership in the 
society. Annual dues are two 
dollars. Also eligible for associate 
membership is anyone who has 
buried in committees and was not , brought up for voting on." 
The leaders of both houses and the committee chairmen are in­fluential in deciding if the amend­ment will be considered for pass­age. The statistics, according to· Kommers, look favorable for pass­age early in the session. Rep. Robert J. DuComb Jr., (R-South Bend who supports ERA, is plan­ning to run for House Republican caucus chairman. Support from Republicans have the majority in tpe House and most of our existing support comes from the Demo­crats. The House is also rather bipartisan on this issue." 
In the House, 52 members are expected to vote "yes"; 48 "no" and 2 are undecided. This is the exact number of votes needed for passage, Democratic representa­tive Clifford Arnold has said he will sponsor the bill in the house. Because of the Republican majority in the House, though, Arnold must find a Republican co-sponsor. 
"Arnold said that this should be no problem," Kommers aoted. According to a poll that Kommers took yesterday, 16 representatives are pro-ERA. 
Although the new Senate is Democratic, Kommers report­ed that ERA still needs one more vote for passage. The poll indicat­ed 25 "yes" votes; 22, "no" and 3 undecided. The amendment has no sponsors yet in the Senate. 
ROCK & ROLL WITH THE BEST BANDS IN TH MIDWEST NITEL Y (Except I ues) THIS WEEK: FAITH· 
The White House Inn 683-9842 2839 No. 51th St. Niles 
Take.U.;:,. "'• ro Niles, North on .51, 3 mile~. 
Write for free information-without obligation. Glenmary Missioners, Room J-22 Box 46404, Cincinnati. OH 45246 
Name __________ Age ____ 
Address--------------­CitY--------------­
l
However, one very bright spot, 
1
Kommers said, "is in the case of a tie, Lt. Governor Robert Orr will cast a yes 1 vote. " 

1
Locally, the only strong opposti­tion is coming from B. richard Miller of Senate District I 0 and Richard Mangus of House District 

l
10. Plans for an "action campaign". to assure support of local legisla­

1 
tors were discussed by Barnard. 
~ 
Among suggestions from members was a "send-off luncheon" for local legislators before they leave for Indianapolis in January. All mem­bers agreed that this is a "good time to see who is on our side and who isn't." 
A bus trip to Indianapolis at a "crucial time", it was decided, would not have the impact of constant presence and pressure of a full time lobbyist. Barnard 
j
reported that ERA Indiana is possibly going to hire one. 
I j
Members expressed interest in 
I
going often to the capital. instead 
t
of making one trip when it might be 
j 
too late to change minds. 
A "positive attitude" campaign. through ads and letters to the editor of the South Bend Tribune was suggested as another way of 

lreinforcing local support for the amendment. Also, the Monitor, a 
l 

magazine published by the ERA Project. based in Sacramento Cali­fornia, will be sent to all legisla­1 tors. 
I 

1Q the observer Friday, November 5, 1976 
Pacific News feature: 



Giant mammal considered near extinction 
• 
by John Lohr Pacific News Servlc( 

The largest animal that ever !lived on this planet is nearing extinction. 
Known scientifically as Balenop· tera Musculus, it is larger than four of the largest dinosaurs together or a herd of :!0 African elephants. Its common name is Blue whale, and man is its only natural enemy. 
Little is being done to forestall this tragedy: in fact, at this point, probably little can be done. 
Today the remaining Blues are widely scattered. and encounters between bulls and cows are rare. Scientists believe they are mute, in t·ontrast to some species of whales that can communicate over dis­tances as great as 3,000 miles. 
The crewmcmbers of the Ameri­can research vessel Hero spotted one lone Blue whale near the South Shctlands in 1972, probably the very last in an area that was once the1r favorite habitat. 
I have been working in th1~ Antarctic waters for well over a year aboard the Hero, perhaps the only ship in the world available for the type of research necessary to save the Blue whale. During a recent 7,000 mile voyage throught the southern Pacific, the crew of the Hero was asked by the Smithso­nian Institution to take a census of the large whales in the area and to tag as many as possible. 
We were unable to tag even one whale and we could count the number sighted on our fingers and toes. 
Lonely Giant 

Little is actually known about the Blues. Such things as their migration routes and their mating grounds remain a mystery. So few specimens remain that most ex­perts won't venture to estimate their numbers. 
Their natural feeding grounds are the enormous krill sch0ols around the Antarctic continent. This fact makes research both costly and difficult, for the waters are stormy and strewn with giant icebergs. 
We do know that t·he Blue whale is a classic case of adaptation of an air-breathing i•lammal to a water environment. With the perfect hydrodynamic shape and marve­lously adapted teeth, or baleen, such a gigantic creature could support its massive weight only in the water. 
A baby Blue may weigh as much as 12 tons at birth. Nourished completely by its mother's milk, the baby may increase hundreds of pounds per day. Hundreds of gallons of milk. are forced into the infant's mouth under pressure as though propelled by gigantic hy­draulic pumps. 
Most of the time during the first 

month--before the infant can swim-the mother supports her offspring with her fins. 
The Blues is not gregarious, like many of the other species and prefers to spend its life as a solitary giant. Whalers report mothers taking fearsome protective mea­sures when a juvenile is under attack, and later showing great grief if the calf is captured, often thrashing and leaping for hours. 
In recent years techniques for 
attachingtelemetering equipment to the animals have been developed in efforts to track their movements. Dr. Donal Siniff of the Bio-Science Center at the University of Minne­sota says proposals have been made for the satellite monitoring of the uny transmitters once they are attached to the whales. 
However, no one has suggested a way to make 100 tons of whale hold still long enough to attach the device. 
Today there is little for the would-be student to' study. Dr. 
Edward Mitchell of the Canadian Fisheries and Marine Service, recognized authority on the subject of whales, says that he has journey­ed thousands of miles for the opportunity to dissect beached whales and has never had the opportunity to examine first-hand the carcass of a dead Blue. 
There does exist one complete skeleton of a Blue whale in the museum at La Plata, Argentina. Weighing over 100 tons and meas­uring over 100 feet long, this ---­behemoth perished when it ran aground at the beach city of Mramar in a mysterious ritual of suicide. 
Probably the best remaining information of the Blue whale's anatomy is in the memories of the few remaining "flencers"· abroad the Japanese or Russian whaling vessels. Flencing is the art of cutting up a whale for processing aboard a factory ship, a soon-to-be­lost art--one way or another. 

1Trade conference to explain · export to businessmen 
Businessmen interested in the ner. . 
mechanics of export will receive The registration fee for business­instruction during an interqational men is $14. If accompanied by a trade conference, to be held on the student guest, registration is an 
University of Evansville, Nov. 8. additional $7. For more informa­The one-day event is sponsored tion, contact Gary A. Lynch. Dean by the University of Evansvile of the school of Business Admini­School of Business Administration, stration, University of Evansville, Indiana Department of Commerce Evansville, Ind. lt7714 (812/479­and Metropolitan Evansville Cham­2851). ber of Commerce. To foster interaction and under­standing between the business 
FREE1l1 

community and student guests. 
Soft drink with 3 items 

Entitled "Pictures in Interna­tionalism," the conference will 
• TACOS • BAh TACO 

begin in the Harper Dining Center 
• JIRRITOS TAMAlES
I • 

at lO•a.m. with a two hour pa.nel 
• EIICIItADAS; • TACO DOC

discussion. Speakers included on the panel will be Thomas B. 
• TOSTADOS .!BEAll TACO 

Hudson, director of the Interna­
• BARBEQUE TACO 

tional Trade division of the Indi­
• SPAIIISII HOT DOC 

ana Department of Commerce; Mel 
' CHEESEBURGER

R. Sherarm director of the Indiana 
District Office of the U.S. Depart­
Specializing in 

ment of Commerce, two members 

vegetarian Foods.

of the Indiana Port Commission and David Kowinski, assistant vice president of the International Divi­sion of the American Fletcher National Bank. 
Lieutenant Governor Robert D. Orr, director of the Indiana Depart­





Election margin no problem 
ment of Commerce, will be the 
luncheon speaker. (continued from page 1] U.S. allies. and to open up the transition. He said he would like Former U.S. Ambassador to has reconsidered his plan to spend policymaking process to Congress them to be involved at that stage. Malaysia, Indonesia and Singa­
two or three days a week in and the American people. He said as advisers, during the 2112 months pore, the Honorable Jack W. 
Washington during the transition he could assure both allies and before inauguration. Lydman, will speak on the "Econo­period. He said he had decided that potential adversaries, including the Carter and Mondale had confer­mics and Political Perspectives of a prc_sident-clcct should keep some Soviet Union and China, that the red earlier with campaign and International Trade" following din-
distance between himself and the United States will seek peace and transition staff aides on the trans­stable relationships. He also said fer of power in Washington.
eaJ.:ital while the old administration remains in power. 
"there will be substantial contin­Jack Watson, the Atlanta attor­But he said Mondalc will be in uity as the transition takes place." ney who has been working on the Wa<;hington as a representative of Carter s;ud that within the next transition for the last three months, 
the incoming administration. 

two weeks he will convene a siad he will soon deliver to Carter a two-day meeting of foreign policy list of names recommended for
Three times. Carter was ques­tioned about his margin of victory 
experts, including those of the possible appointments. in the new present administration, Mondale administration.
and the effect the close election might have on his administration. 
and congressional leaders. Carter will leave Plains on Satur­Ea~·h time he replied that he had day for a working vacation at St.
He al~o said he hopes to meet 
Simons Island, off the Georgia
broad support. an ample mandate. 
with Ford and top Cabinet officials 
:\nd he added that his margin of coast.
for a briefing on present policies. 
Mondale arrived in Plains at

'icton is comparable to that of Carter amended on campaign midafternoon with his wife. Joan,pre~idents in other close elections. 
statement-· his comment in the 
and their three children. He said he "1 think that there was a good, final debate with Ford that he looks forward to a significant role in hraod base of support expressed would not as president act militar­the new .administration. f0r me." Carter said. "I don't feel ily to thwart a Soviet invasion of Senior Carter advisers, it was 
The Student Players
timid or cautious or reticent about Yugo-.lavia should that occur at the learned, are putting first priority on moving aggressively to carry out death of President Tito. He said it appointments to top goverment & ND Social Commission presents:m\· campaign commitments be­is unlikely U.S. forces would be economic posts, including the .. 
cause I only got about 300 electoral used. but that a final judgment Office of Management and Budget, votes. 1"11 be very aggressive in would be made if such an invasion the Council of Economic Advisers 
Jacques Brei Is Alive And Well 
carr~·ing out my commitments to occurcd. And he called that type of and the Treasury department. They the American p('ople." action by the Soviets extremely reason that these appointments 
And Living In Paris
unlikely. provide the most effective way ofCarter said he didn't think the 
taking charge of the government
elect ion had demonstrated a If the Soveit Union took such by Bla•• and Shuman, Music
apparatus.
strong. negatiH:, reaction against action, he said, it would be a President Ford. He also said it did serious breach of the peace and a Carter made a point of remarking Bv Jacques Rrel 
at the news conference that in his
not indicate a substantial differ­threat to the entire world. He said 

administration, the heads of gov­At Lar-ortune Rathskellar, The Nazz 
ence in voter trust as between him it would make it almost impossible 
ernment agenciers will run them.
and the President. for U.S. policies of detente toward 
Nov. 5 & 6
He said his White House aides will
Moscow to be continued.

But he said the majority felt it 
be assistants to him, not bosses to 


admission: $1.00
was time for change and for his While Carter said he will not be the rest of the administration. 
promised action to deal with unem­
naming his Cabinet before next "1 would never permit my White ployment and inflation. month, he indicated that some who House staff to try to run the major 1time: 8:30pm in foreign poUcy. Carter_ said he whil become Cabinet members will departments of government," he will seek to improve relationS with · be with ·him earlier, during the said. 
.' . 
I 


According to Carter 

Injured icers to invade Denver, IT;day, Novembe.S, 1976 the obsery'::..._ ·-]~ 
j 
J 

1 
I 

Moher gets nod in the net 
by Gregory Solman Sports Writer 

The scene will be Denver this weekend for the Notre Dame hockey team, and Coach Lefty Smith is expecting the unexpected. Only one thing is for certain it won't be easy breatl.ing playing the Pioneers at their home arena situated in the "mile-high" city. 
Smith will go With Buffalo Sabres draftee Len Moher to mind the 
-;,trings. Smith, who said he would "go with the hot hand", chose the lanky Moher, who was in the Irish net during their opening game win over Michigan State. Moher stopped 27 MSU shots, while giving up but three goals. Said Smith, "Moher performed better, so he will be tending." The Irish, who were down to one healthy defenseman with ten min­utes left in their second game loss to the Spartans, will have part of their defensive corps back -at least they'll have more than they had in the last game. . "Brownshidle will be back play­mg at about 90 percent. Dukie Walsh will skate at about 60-70 percent, and both will make the trip for sure," said Coach Lefty Smith, who had commented after the second game of last weekend's series, "it looks like the injury bugaboo is still with us." And indeed it is. Defensemen Paul Clarke and Dan Byerswill not take the trip, and Geoff Collier's playing this weekend will be con­tingent on how he skates in the Irish's last practice before leaving for Denver. Defens1vely, Smith will pair Brownshidle and Howe, Bourque and Friedmann, and Jackson and Deward. The offensive lines will be intact, though Dukie Walsh will be skating at partial strength and Geoff Collier is a question mark. Still, the majority of the Irish 
Notices 

Notice: The residents of 1112 Corby announce the cancellation of their bi-weekly parties for Nov. Thanks for comin[l --Our achin!l helmets. 801 St. Louis-you're up! PRCS 
MIDWEST BLUES FESTIVAL 
STEPAN CENTER 7:30 FRIDAY $4.00 SATURDAY '$5.00 NO +SMC FESTIVAL PASS $6.00 
BE THERE!! 

Due to circumstances beyond our control, the party at our house Saturday has been postponed. Sorry, y'all. 
Tex, Moon, Chip, Jun(lle 

MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20 
150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune Base­ment. M-F 11:15-12:15. 
Accurate, fast typin[l. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. Hours: 8amto8pm. 
Tickets for the November 11, Chica­[10 Stadium concert with The Eagles, featurin[l Joe W a Ish, and John David Souther are now on sale at the River City Review Ticket Outlets: Just For The Recors (1 00 Center) and Boo[lie Records (College Square 
Due to the time change, the Grey­hound bus to Chicago will now leave the Main Circle at 5:45 every Friday. 
Call Tom at 8338 for seat reserva­tions and further info. 
Anyone interested in startinn an Asian-American club call Cra-in at 8693. ­
Gay Hotline: Friday and Saturday, 
10:00  to  12:00  pm.  283-8870.  
G.C.N.D.  P.O.  Box 206,  Notre  
Dame.  

Neat, accurate typing of term papers manuscripts. Call 287-5162. 
Typing · 35 cents a page. Call Dan . 272-5549. 
Fran DeMarko BALLROOM DANCE CLASSES WILL BEGIN ON NOV. 7 IN LAFORTUNE BALL­ROOM EACH SUNDAY ·AFTER­NOON FROM 2:30-4pm. WALK IN ALONE OR GROUPS. PAY ONLY $2.00 FOR EACH LESSON. 
For Rent 

RENT MY UPSTAIRS. $40 PER MONTH. CU~SE TO CAMPUS. CALL 233-1329. 
3-Room Apt. Everything furnished. Sl 00 per month. Private bath. Call 288-9533. 
woes will originate from the Pio­neer side of the redline. One factor in Denver's favor is their location high above sea-level. The Pioneers are conditioned to playing in thin ~ir, and the Irish are not. Although tt may seem trivial, it is comparable to the Alabama football team playing here in a blizzard--it is something that must be contended with. 
"We'll just have to change lines quickly," said the seasoned coach, "there's no problem on face-offs, but changing on the fly presents a problem." 
The problem lies in the Pioneer's ~ink, which is only 185 feet, as opposed to the normal 200 feet. The lack of space is taken up in the neutral zone. This leaves the benches in the offensive zones, making it difficult, if not impossible to change lines on the attack without being offsides. The Irish will be benched in their own offensive zone in the second period of both games. 
Smith also added that the shorter neutral zone "presents a problem dumping the puck in your own zone," and, "causes crowding on the blue line." 
If that's not enough to contend with, there is always the team. The Pioneers hold a 17-7-0 advantage over the Irish in their lifetime series. The Denver team has been particularly effective at home, win­ning 12 and losing just two in the series. Last year, the teams split the four games they played. Murray Armstrong, in his 21st year of coaching with the Pioneers, will be doing everything he can to augment that record. 
In that series last year, Denver lost the first game S-2 at the Athletic and Convocation Center before picking up a 4-1 victory the next night. Later on at Denver, the Pioneers opened with a win, 3-2 and dropped the second game 4-2. 
Lost and Found 
Lost-Calculator (SRSOA) between the circle and the Library on NO Ave. on Thur ni[lht Oct. 28. Please return. Call Ben 233-4222. 
Lost Black and Brown miJ<ed shepard and collie in area of Notre Dame and An!lela. 4 mos. -25 !bs. Named Cleopatra. 287-7740. 
Lost: camel hair jacket at Morrissey Campus View party last Saturday ni[lht. Call Shannon 5150, reward. 
Lost: Sterlin[l Silver cross and chain at CCE or Cartier fields. Present from HTH, reward. D.O.C. 1150. 
To the bstd. who stole Calif. license plate 565 JMV. 1 want it back! Call 1747. 
Lost: Nickies parking lot "Borrow­ers" of gym bag and back pack please return to 717 St. Louis Blvd. 233-37 43. 
Gray Army-type hat around Corby's bar area Sat. nile.. Reward. 4375. 
Lost: Camera and attachments from occupant's room in Old Fieldhouse (Art Dept.) over October break. Film in camera is important. Owner would greatly appreciate its return. Call 1354 or 4-4820. 
For Sale 
IBM Selectric Typewriters, excellent condition. Call 7037. 
1974 Toyota Corolla 5 speed. 18.000 miles. Good condition! Call 272-2520 after 3 pm. 
WaMG Midget. New Top. 26,000 miles. $1750. Call 289-4702. 
Red girl's Austrian ski boots -like new -size 6 and a half. $90.00 call 4-5428. 
MILLER HIGH LIFE AND MILLER LITE GOLF HATS, GOLF SHIRTS, T SHIRTS AND WINTER HATS 

FOR  SALE.  LOW  PRICES.  Bob  
8361.  
Car  stereo:  Crain  -3512  FM  

Cassette receiver (excel.); Jensen 6x9 Co-Axial speakers (br. new); retail $168 asking $90; Any 289-4790 
1969 Datsun Classic 1800 all new paint, tires, interior. Excellent condition, low mileage. $2000 or better. 272-3236. 
Mexican belts: finest leather belts available. Only $10.00 call Big Money Murf anytime at 234-8858. 
Book Shop. Used books. Students Paradise. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7. Ralph Casperson Books. T303 Buchannon Road. Niles, Mich. 663­

.• ·. 2888 .. ·.. ·,_ . 'J. ·~';. • ••, .. '~.·.,.·,.·· tf., ·• 
Last week, the Pioneers opened 
their season with two losses to the 
North Dakota Sioux, 9-6 and 7-6, 
being hurt be penalties, as the Irish 
were in their loss to Michigan. The 
losses, however, might not present 
the whole picture. 
"Denver is an unknown quan­tity," said Smith, "and you never hear much about their recruiting. According to Smith, the Denver club ran into a conflict with the -~CAA last year, and the penalty Imposed on two of last year's players has expired this week. 
Like the Irish, the Pioneers have 
almost all of last year's team 
returning. Ernie Glanville the 
~ioneer's head netminder, 'high­
lights the defense. Glanville had a 
4.0 goals against average last year, and was ranked third among the WCHA goaltenders. 
Much ?f. the Pioneer's scoring punch ortgtnates at the blueline, where Greg Woods, who had five assists in last weekend's series, teams up with Lindsay Thomson to provide a tandem that las~ year scored the most Pioneer goals. Woods and Thomson led the Pio­neers in scoring with 52 and 48 points respectively. 
Up front the Pioneers aren't lacking either. Along with the veteran scoring punch of Tom Zajac and Chad Campbell, the Pioneer's have added four newcomers, Mark Davidson, Paul Messier, Vince Magnan and Perry Schnarr, who scored a hat trick in his second collegiate game. 
. Smith was particularly pleased wtth the fan reaction to the recent home series. When asked to remark on the standing ovation his team received after holding Michi­gan scoreless with a two man ' disadvantage in the second game, he said, "If that would have happened five years ago, or per­haps even last year, there wouldn't have been nearly the reaction." 

For Sale: Hitachi Receiver BSR turntable $200. 233·2608. 
Best Offer 1 BAMA ticket. Pat or Phil -8582. 
For Sale: 2 G.A. Alabama tickets. 
Best offer CAll Jim 1795. 
Wanted 

I NEED ALABAMA TICKETS. CALL CHRIS AT 288-8417 or 283­8661, AFTERNOONS ONLY. 
Friends from there coming here? Well, some people like snow and ice and I need 1 or 2 GA or Student (w1id)Miamitickets. Dave 1173 5-7 pm or after midnight. 
Need 2 G. A. Bama tickets. Need not be together. Call 289-1056. 
NEED SOMEONE TO DRIVE GIRLFRIEND FROM ALBANY TO NO AND BACK FOR BAMA WEEKEND. CALL BILL 1540. 
Two G.A. tickets to Alabama. Call Don, 3697 or 8301. 
Desperately need 2 GA Alabama tickets. Call 4-5237. 
Needed: Two Chicano concert tickets. Call Ed at 683-7506. 
Needed: one Bama ticket. Please call Rob 6986. 
Need 3 student Alabama tickets. Will pay$$$. Call Jane 4427. 
Desperately need at many Alabama tickets as possible... Call Chris , 272-1400. 
Need 2 Alabama tickets. Call Martha at 1715 or 2116. 
One set dress-blues. Jacket 36, Pants 30-32. 272·2932 after 6pm. 
Need 4 G.A. tickets for Alabama Football <:1ame. Have unlimited funds. Ci!ll Bob 1461. 
Need 1 G.A. Bama ticket. Tony 288-5675. 
3 G.A. tixs needed for Alabama game. Call Bob 255-8660. 
Need ONE ticket to Miami <Jame. Call Patty, 4-4904. · 
Desperately need G.A. and student Bama tickets. Call 1·487. 
Need Alabama tickets somethin' fierce. Call Martha at 4819. 
Desperately need 3 GA Alabama tid<ets for parents'and a·pri'est. Call Stephanie 1364. 

Pace's Picks 
After a few weeks absence, PACE'S PICKS return to forec .1st tl 
games of this ninth week of the National Football Leagu  ,~asor  
St. Louis over PHILADELPHIA by 7 points  -Football'  Big R  
Machine needs this to stay within one game of the Cowbl  Dal  

has a bye this week, they play the Giants. 
CHICAGO over Oakland by 3 points -My pre-season evaluatior 
the Bears was inaccurate; they are playing solid footba 
NEW ENGLAND over Buffalo by 9 points -Steve Grogan 
exceeded everyone's hopes as the Pats QB. 
Miami over NEW YORK JETS by 13 points -Bill Arnsparger ,.. ill finally see a team that he coaches win in New York. 
GREEN BAY over New Orleans by 2 points -The Pack not ba 
but th.ey are improved. 
Pittsburgh. over KANSAS CITY by 14 points-The Steelers are ,t sleep-walkmg anymore but they may have awoken too late to deft d their championship. 
DALLAS over New Jersey Giants· Though I am a diehard Giant Inn (Are there any of us left?), the only reason that I will watch t game will be to view the lovely lasses that strut their ~tuff on · Cowboy sidelines. There is no reasonable line on this game. 
Cleveland over HOUSTON by 4 points-Forrest Gregg's Browns ,,,-e another improving team. 
~INNESOTAover Detroit by to_ points -Another pre-season pick of ~tne that has not worked out 1s the Detroit lions; they have not hved up to my expectations. 
DENVER over Tampa Bay by 12 points-The Bucs and John McK· 
are still looking for their first win. " 
Baltimore over SAN DIEGO -The Colts are two games ahead of New England and they seem certain of a playoff birth. 
SAN FRANCISCO over Washington by 7 points -Neither .roe Theismann nor Billy Kilmer has been able to move the Ski'ls' offense. Punt returner Eddie Brown has been the only consistent scoring threat.
• 

Atlanta over SEATTLE oy 5 points -In this battle of have nots anything can happen; but the old pros should beat the yearlings.' 
MONDAY NIGHT 
CINCINNAT1 over Los Angeles·by 2 points -This is the best Bengal team ever and they should march to the playoffs. 
Faculty will exchance Miami for any 2 Alabama tiks and pay addit•unal price or will buy outri!lht at any price 1671 or 288 6366. ­
Need 4 Tix for Chicano lo!lether if possible. Bob 287 -94S3. ­
Need 8 GA Alabama tixs. Call Chris at 8336. 
Wealthy relatives need 2 GA Ala bama tickets. Top Dollar!! Call Leo 3278. ' 
Need 3 G.A. tix or 1 student and 2 
G.A. tix to Miami. Call Betsy 4298 orJiml188. 
I need G.A. Alabama tickets. top dollar. Tim 1868. 
Desperately need Bama tix. Call Ruth 7136 or 272-3513. 
SKI FOR FREE!!! 15 Min. from Notre Dame. Are you a certified ski mstructor, or just an arden skier who would enjoy instructing? Apply 
•mmed•ately Royal Valley Ski Resort Ma1n Sl. Buchanan, Mich. 616 695 3847. 
Need 2 GA Alabama tickets. Call Claire 6833. 
Typin[l wanted picked up and delivered. Reasonable. Diane. 683 7759. 
~ur friends have <:liven up on th ~ 1dea to tickele us to death, promis­ln[l a method that would be slower and more painful. So please, we need 2 GA Alabama tickets before we discover our awaiting fate. Call Terri or Diane, 7853. 
If you know people who need ride from lonG Island for Alabama name (leave thur. nile, return Sunday) Share expenses, Call Chris 288-9768 
For Sale: 1972 Valiant, excellent condition, only 26,000 mileane. $1800. Cally: 233-6212. · 
-----r---------­
Personals 
Here's the one you've all been waiting for! Its the Bag Brothers Bash. Everyone welcome! Come and meet the "self appointed social leaders" Sat. ni<:1ht. 
Come and meet the 'Bags' Saturday night at the Bag Party at 801 St. Louis. All welcome. Donation Sl.OO. 9:00pm till dawn. 
Seniors! Death comes two weeks from tollay. Warm up your march­ing shoes! 
DETROIT CLUB PARTY Saturday, Nov. 6, 9:00 Campus View, 54655, Apt. 203, Guests welcome!$ 
Bag Brothers are having a party saturday at 801 St. Louis betweeen 9 pm and s am. All Bags and friends 
..-elcome.. $1 admission.• get sacked~ • • Kidnapped' One blind panda 1ear in the vicinity of St. Ed's Fo day n1[1ht. Family distressed. Ne'lotia. tions can be worked out. · Call 4 5392. Reward. lollipops 
Sadie Hawkins is comin'l. 
Kevin. 
Toni'l'1t is the ni!lht. 
Happy Anniversary! 
Buona fortuna. 
love, Barb 
DANCE AND PRANCE AND GET DOWN TONIGHT!!! COME TO THE KEGGER AT CAMPUS VIEW!! 9 PM. EVERY­ONE INVITED!!! 
Anyone interested in Jesuit Volun­teer Corps meet with representative Tues. 2 pm Campus office in Badin. 
Sabrina, Shoot the ducks while they are flying!!! 
Duncan. 
To the orininal Madame Fifi Another year older and wiser in the ways of life? Does the Madame now offer le!lal aid to her [lirls? Happy 22nd Margaret. 
Space Queen. 
Annette, Amy and Janet Hi! Happy Friday. The weekend should be [100[1 take care Annette. yours looks promising. Well, love and kisses, xxxxoxx, [lCitta love those x's and o's. Bev. 
To the five fine foxy SMC chicks· Thanks for the ours of fun and entertainment. Between the "Nightstalkers" and Midshipmen we still had a great time. Call us a[lain. Love, Stick, Chris, Brian, Kevin, Bob, and Tom. 
Shirley It's been a year and as Buzzy would say "the love's still nrowin<J."
BU . . 







~1~2~--~th~e observer__________F_rid_a~y~,_N_o_v_em__be_r_5_,_1_9_76 
Irish looking to wreck Geor ia Tech 
by Bob Keen dictate. senior center Leo Tierney. Sports Writer "Tech just hasn't shown a consistent weakness that you feel The Notre Dame football team you can take advantage of," said 
travels :o Atlanta, Ga. tomorrow Devine. ''I'm convinced we are 
to face an inconsistent. but po­going to have to play up to our tentially explosive Georgia Tech peak offensively and defensivelyteam. 
and with our kicking game if we Tech, with a record of 3-4-1. is hope to win." 
coming off a lopsided defeat at AI Hunter's fine season con­the hands of Duke 31-7 last week. 
tinued last week in which he 
··Prior to last week they did play added two more touchdowns to 
hack-to-hack games in which they his team leading total of eight.
·executed the way Pepper Rodgers He also led the team in rushinglike!> his teams to· play,'' stated again last week and now has a Uan Devine. "Unfortunately, 
total of 644 yards rushing and Tech was a victim of some bad with four remaining gameS" he has 
breaks last week-by losing the ball a good chance to becorre the .m fiVl' tumbles and five intercep-University's first 1,000 yaro rush­!1"'1'>. er. 
I 
However. the Fighting Irish The Irish passing attack might played unimpressively in their turn out to be the difference in 27-21 victorv over an inspired Saturday's game against Tech. Na\ v team· in Cleveland last Notre Dame has a substantial wceiwnd. This win enabled the advantage in this area averaging lrbh to increase their winning 165 yards per game as oppossed ... trcak to six straight games and to only 77 yards per game up their record to 6-1. "I compiled by the Yellow Jackets. personally go into every game Rick Slager, while completing just respecting the opponent. Navy under 49 percent of his passes, had battled Michigan and Pitts-has thrown ten touchdown passes burgh on even terms for one-half this season. Ken MacAfee, of the game earlier in the season playing very steadily for the Irish, and to their credit they played two is the leading receiver with 19 
I 
oreat halfs against us last week." receptions and three touchdowns. "' Navy's second period touch-Senior wide receiver Dan Kelle­down pass represented the first her had his best game of his opposition pass to be completed career against Navy collecting for a touchdown against the Irish seven passes from Slager, induct-this season and it was also the ing a 58-yard scoring pass for his 
first touchdown against the Notre first career touchdown. For this Dame defense since the last performance he was voted offen-The Irish defense, which had its record string of twenty-one quarters without giving up a touchdown quarter of the Pittsburgh game. sive player of the game. broken by Navy last weekend, will be looking to stop a potentially explosive Georgia Tech team This score ended the string of 21 The passing attack is of further tomorrow. [Photo by Tony Chifari] consecutive quarters that the importance with the injuries sus-tensity." Irish had kept opponents out of tained in the offensive line. The Irish remained 11th in the the endzone. but this was enough Starting offensive tackle Harry polls this week and with bowl bids Ruggers to close season
to eclipse the modern Notre Dame Woebkenberg. with a shoulder coming out in two weeks, they 
record of 20 set by the 1946 injury, and Mike Carney starting need a decisive victory over the The Irish started almost before Rugby Union, Notre Dame enter­National Championship team. offensive guard, with burns, will Yellow Jackets to remain in classes did this semester, travell­ed into the first annual Indiana 
Georgia Tech operates with an definitely miss Saturda.v's con-contention. ing to Windsor Canada to com-Rugby Union Tournament on Oct. 
explosive Wishbone offense con-test. Also, the other starting Tomorrow's game represents pete in the Borderer's Rugby 23 and 24 to decide Indiana's two 
sisting of two excellent halfbacks. offensive guard Ernie Hughes is the 25th meeting between the two Tournament on September 4 and representatives in the Midwest Senior David Sims went over the listed as doubtful for the game. teams and Tech will be looking for 5. They tied for their division Tournament in the spring. In the 2.000 yard career rushing mark Ted Horansky and Elton Moore their first win since 1959 when lead by tying Miami of Ohio 6-6 preliminary rounds the I­last week against Duke, while will fill in for Woebkenberg and they defeated the Irish 14-10. and beating the Niagra Wasps rish soundly beat Purdue 20-4 and sophomore Eddie Lee Ivery has Carney while Tim Foley will take Notre Dame has won 21 of the 7-3, but were eliminated because Indiana University 10-4. In the averaged 4.8 yards per carry. Hughes' place if necessary. On previous contests while losing of comparitive point totals with championship game, a superb ..Sims is big and strong and is the postitive side Terry Eurick only three. Miami. 
display of rugby was put on bythe type of player who could will return and start at fullback. An estimated Homecom-On October 2 and 3 the Irish both Notre Dame and the Louis­I' dominate the game," stated De-Anyone who knows Georgia ing crowd of over 50,000 is then went to Alton, Ill. to play in ville Rugby Club, but the Irish vine. "and Ivery is just as Tech Coach Pepper Rodgers real-expected for the 2 p.m. kick-off. the Bluff City Rugby Tournament came up short by just two points, 

I 
effective and had an outstanding ized that the Irish should not take The game will be broadcast on winning the semi-final game 52-6 10-8. 
game last week with 99 yards in this game lightly. "Having radio by the Notre Dame-Mutual against the St. Louis Royals but Although the club's record is a only 11 carries.'' They will be coached against Pepper before, I Radio Network. The game will be lost to the Alton Rugby Club in meager 4-7-1, five of those seven running behind a strong offensive know he has a knack for getting a carried on local television by the final 12-6. 
loses were by a total of 14 points.

line led by All-American can-team ready to play with in-WNDU. As a member of the Indiana 
Also, this year's team has onlyFred Herbst ~~~~~~~;g;:;:;:;g~=~=!=~=~~=~=~=--*.!!:~=~=~:~=~=-~~!:~*;!~=:=:=!=!:§;~===:=-=:=:=:=:::====::=~~========*=•:=:::::=:::=:=-;.:=:=~=::='f.~-:.tt.=-;:::::::::~.;::::-:.-;-;-;-:.:=~-:..;~:::~;-;::::-.:..;y·~·~...;:;::*:=~:=:=s:::=:::>.=::.:::::).=:=:=:= seven returning starters from last 
f 
l 
~pring. 
The serum is lead by the cagey 
old veteran Bolio Olsen and, the


Football Predictions only year on
four member the club, serum captain and club vice-president Terry Roche. The

' . hE 
..·::::::::::.·:::::.::::;;·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:::=::::-:;:::::·=::;:::::::::::::::::::::::..r/..(.")[.'[1"/..::-t-:-.;:=.:::.:=~~=====:=:=:::~:::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::=:::=:::=:::=:=:::::::=:=========:=:=:=:::=:•:=:=:::::=:=::;;::::;::::::=====::;:: Th e Ir1~-_. ye only other returning starter in the Last week was a great week for Oklahoma fans, as their beloved Sooners lose t~ree in~ row? It's possible, but tt won t happen to~orrow. Kansas serum is Joe Olsen. Other serum ,tropped their second game in as many weeks. Whafs State ts nothmg so ~he Sooners should be able to pull thts one out before members are Pete Schreck, Nick wrong with Barry Switzer's crew? Could it be that they're.too worned the home fans. Oktes by 14. Walters_: Sooner by 17. . Raich, Tony Chavez, Will­:1hout getting caught at something they shouldn't be domg to play New York. Tech at ~gs Point: . Th1s one sh~pes up to. be a classic is Coyne, Lou Drago, John Norris, rootball? Placed on NCAA probation five years ago, the Sooners know confrontatiOn. Tech s potent passmg attack agamst the sohd defense of former lacrosse star Charlie Folk­hat it isn't any fun and don't want to go back. But they can expect it if Ole KP. In a real battle, look for Te~h ~y 3. ~alters: KP by 3~. . man, and placekicker Tom Byrne. hey don't get this illegal ticket sales trouble straightened out fast.. Lehigh at Virg~la: The Cavs ar_e enJoymg the1r greatest se~son m the.1r The backfield has five return­A few weeks ago. Sports illustrated attributed a quote to the pres1~ent rcent p~st, havmg won a game th1s year to end the_ longest lo~mg stre~k m ing starters in George Spiegel, ,f the University of Oklahoma that had him saying: "I wan~ to bmld a the natton; (N<~rthw_es~ern now h~s the. longest Iosmg streak m the nation . T"'IY Mendiola, Mark Tovey, . chool that our football team can be proud of." That's the kmd of show If you don t beheve It,Just ask Ch1p Spma.) John Matt and the rest of the team captain Leo Ehrline, and hey run in Oklahoma; great isn't it? . Engineers are still one of_the best teams in Divisio? II and should be able M!dwest all-star Doug Mosser. So with time winding down until bowl picks are to be made and w1th to handle the ~avs. Leh1gh by 5. Walters : Eng~neers by~· Newcomers in the backfield are :-ams fighting for position, here are the Irish Eye's picks, with the help of Westem Michtgan at Miami [0]: What can be sa1d. The Insh Eye has Ted Howard, Keven Deighan, ·rank Walters: picked Miami every week this season, so there's no reason tochangenow. and the fantastic inside-outside t,Jabama vs LSU: The game is being played in Birmingham, and that's a Redskins by 3. Walters: Western by 12. . . . combination of Mike McGlinn and reak for Barna. The Tide couldn't beat the Tigers in Baton Rouge, but up Oklahoma State at Nebraska: The Cowboys are r1dmg tallm the saddle John O'Connell. The backfield or~h they should squeak it out. Bama by 4. Walters: Alabama by 7. after last week upset win over Missouri, but they'll be gunned down suffered a blow when it learned 
f olgate at Bucknell: Coach Fred Dunlop has done a tremendous job with tomorrow by the Cornhuskers. Nebraska by 10. Walters: State by l. Mark Lukanich is out forJhe year ....... 1e Red Raiders. who have a perfect record to this point. Bucknell plays a Texas Tech at Texas Christian: As long as ~ech remembers ~hat they're with knee damage. 1ugher schedule and is favored, but look for Colgate by 3. Walters: there to play footbal and not stare at the g1rls they shouldn t hav"' any This Saturday the Ruggerst :1iders by 3. . tro~ble. Tech is one of the few undefeated teams left and appear to be on close out their fall season home nlorado at Missouri: The Tigers may be the most talented team m the1r way to the Cotton Bowl. Tech by 14. Walters: Tech by 7. against the Boilermakers of Pur­
•liege football. but they're definitely the most inconsistent. Colorado is Navy at Syracuse: Both teams came close to major upsets last week before due. A, B, and C games (in that >ming off a big win over Oklahoma and should let down enough for falling in the final minutes. Navy played well last week, but that was a order) will be played startin!;! at ;issouri to take them. Tiger~ by 4. Wa~ters: Buffaloes by J. . fluke. Syracuse is improving with every gamer. The Orange by 7. 1:00. artmouth at Brown: Brown IS your typtcal Ivy League team; they JUSt Walters: Navv by 7. Anyone interested in playing nd of exist. Gre? Robinson is thinking about being a first-round NFL Notre Dame at Georgia Tech: Notre Dame came back to reality last week next semester contact Leo Ehrline raft pick (they still have the draft, don't they?) and he'll let Brown know almost losing to Navy, so they shouldn't be looking past Tech. Val at 232-7670. 
,Jout it. The Big Green by 8. Walters: Brown by l. Zurblis, who is an incredible 5-0 on the season, looks as if she may never lorida vs Georgia: This game (being played in Jacksonvillt) is the big Jose a game. Looking to make it six in a row, Val says Irish by 14. Miami tix on sale 1e tomorrow. The winner is almost certainly the Southeastern Walters: Notre Dame by 10. onference champ. Georgia is tough, everyone knows that. Florida is UPSET OF THE WEEK: at Gate 1 0 toaay 
. ndefeated in the conference, but has failed to impress. Still, Florida has Cincinnati at Maryland: Both teams are undefeated, the Bearcats with a 
There are still 700 tickets avail­

l1e talent to make it a long afternoon for the Bulldogs. Gators by 6. little help from Southwest Louisiana. Maryland hasn't played a team all able for the Miami football game on .Vaiters: Bulldogs by 7. year and still hasn't impressed anyone. In a major upset look for Nov. 20. They will go on sale·llnois at Ohio State: The Buckeyes aren't what they once were,and the Mar~Iand to fall. Walters: Maryland by 3. 
tomorrow at 9 p.m. at Gate 10 ofi1ini never were anything. Bu.cks by_ 20. Walters: ?SU by 21. Last week: 12-3, 75 pet.; Guest Picker Bob Steinmetz: 10-5, 67 pet. 

the ACC.

·ansas State at Oklahoma: Is 1t poss1ble that they m1ghty Sooners could 








