
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XI, No. 44 Tuesday, November 9, 1976 
SMC student government allocates funds for clubs 
by Pat Payne Staff Reporter 

St. Mary's student assembly unanimously approved a proposal to alot $2SO to the Neighborhood Help Study Program in a two hour meeting held last night in Regina's basement. Other clubs requesting funds were the law society, Notre Dame-Saint Mary's College Crew, ND-SMC sailing club, and the business club. 
A proposal to approve the form­ation of and the constitution for a hall presidents' council (HPC) to replace the existing hall Life Com­mission was also brought up at the meeting by Susie Gauthier, McCandless hall president. It was postponed until Nov. 1S however, to provide student assembly mem­bers adequate time to study the constitution. 
Mary Lou Bilek, student body president, commented that the members of student assembly weighed many important factors in 
At St. Mary's 
each c~cision of fund allocation. She stated, ''The number of active members in a club, the numbers of peopleaffected by the club's exis­tence and the amount of money obtained through fund raisers and individual member contributions all determined the amount they 
received." 
Bilek also emphasized, "The school awards each hall and class $2 per student for their respective budgets. Student assembly is careful when considering to give the clubs more than that." 
When determining the validity of funds requested by ND-SMC clubs, student assembly generally agreed to approbate funds in proportion to the amount contri­buted by the Notre Dame student government. 
Maggie Britton, representing the Neighborhood Study Help Pro­gram, stated that the funds re­ceived from student assembly would go towards the purchase of a van to transport tutors to the 
New courses offered 
By Mary Rukovina Staff Repcrter 

New courses are being offered for the Spring 76-77 semester in English, Government and Speech and Drama at St. Mary's. 
The new courses in the English department are; EnLt 203, Russian literature, and EnWr 317, Theor­ies of the Avant-Garde. Russian Literature will deal with major Russian writers of the nineteenth and eartly twentieth centuries. The course will emphasize reading and analysis of the works as literary documents. 
Theories of the Avant-Garde deals in the writing of plays, poems and fiction. It will deal with those movements, ideas and affiliations that have most shaped the modern writer's way of looking at and responding to his world. Avant­Guard music, painting and film will also be examined. 
New courses in the Government department are; Govt. 376 Judicial Process, and Govt. 4SS, Law En· forcement Seminar. Judicial Pro­cess will examine the role and function of courts in the United States. Emphasis is placed on the relationship among local and feder­al courts. Law Enforcement semin­ar will deal with police operations and the approaches to enforcing the law. Criminal investigation and presentation of evidence will also be covered. 
Five new courses are being <Jffered in the Speech and Drama department. They include; SPDR 310, Neo-Realism/New Wave, which deals with the post-war Italian and French cinema. Parti­cular attention will be paid to the cultural, intelectual and artistic foundations of the movements. 
SPDR 42S, Advanced Classical Ballet is advanced ballet theory and technique. SPDR 490 Drama Critism and Theory examines se­lected readings from major drama­tic theorists and critics. SPDR 491, Small Group Interactions examines major theories and research find­ings relating to communication in small group situations supple­mented with group interaction activities. SPDR 494, Theater for Young People is a comprehansive study of informal and formal thea­ter for youth from pre-school through secondary school. 
various teaching centers. But transportation had been federally funded under Title I until 1974. After that, bus transportation came to approximately $8000 per year and the program decided to pur­chase a van instead of losing that money each year. 
ND-SMC crew treasurer Mary Brady presented a proposal re­questing $SOO from student assem­bly to aid in the purchase of two new motors. The previous ones were lost in the river last spring. Student assembly member Sue Branham move that a proposal be accepted alotting $2SO to women's crew. The entire amount was not passed because members felt that it was too much money for too few 
[continued on page 7]' 

Candy bar prices skyrocket to 20¢ 
NEW YORK [AP] • Candy lovers who watched prices rise during the sugar shortage are groaning at the prospect of more bad news next year; the 20-cent chocolate bar. 
This time, the culprit is the cocoa bean. 
The Nestle Co. Inc. of White Plains, 
N.Y. announced yesterday it was raising wholesale prices on a variety of chocolate products. At the retail level, a typical chocolate bar will go from 1S to 20 cents, the company said. 
The Nestle move was not unexpected since the Hershey Corp., M & M and Peter Paul announced similar pri~.-e boosts·late last month. 
Figuring out the percentage of increase is complicated because of the companiec; trying to sweeten the impact of the higher prices by increasing the size of their candy bars. 
A Nestle mile chocolate bar, for example, will grow from 1-1/8 to 1-1/4 ounces ; a Hershey milk chocolate bar is going from 1.2 to 1.3S ounces. The Nestle bar is smaller -1-1/4 is equal to 1.2S. 
The smaller, cheaper Nestle bar costs 
13.3 cents per ounce; the larger, higher­price variety will cost 16 cents per ounct: the increase is 20 percent. For Hershey the per-ounce price increase works out t· 19 percent. 
Nestle said the wholesale price in· creases will go into effect early in 1977, after stocks of the IS-cent chocolate bars are used up. The increase is expected at the retail level next spring. 
All the companies blamed higher costs for the increases, noting that cocoa beans which sold for 7S cents a pound a year ago, now are going for close to 51.50. The firms said the chocolate increases would have come sooner if it had not been for the drop in the price of sugar which has declined about 90 percent from 1974 levels. 
Stephen Korse11 of Nestle said there is no actual shortage of cocoa beans. He said, however, that the producing roun­tries "are re~ulating the flow" of beans. 
Violations by freshmen result in suspension 
byTomO'NeU Editor-In-Chief 

The second semester suspensions of four Notre Dame freshmen were the result of parietal and alcohol violations, an informed source told The Observer yesterday. 
The source said the violations took place Sunday, Oct. 24 in Lyons Hall and involved two Lyons and two Dillon Hall residents. The Dillon freshmen allegedly intoxicated, fell asleep in the room of the Lyons freshmen at about 11:30. 
"One ofthe men woke up at 3 a.m. About an hour later he woke up his friend," the source said. "Because of the latter's continued visible drunkedness, the group decided one of the Lyon's women should sober him up with a shower." 
The two were in the shower approximately IS to 30 minutes, the source added. They were heard by a security guard who notified Rector Sr. Kathleen Madden. The case was referred on thefollowing Tuesday to James Roemer, dean of students. 
Believmg their violations would result in "something like 20 hours of leaf-raking for punishment," the student~ signed· a statement waiving their IS "Student Rights in Disciplinary Proceedings". including the right to appeal their case before the University Appeals Board, according to the source. The violations resulted in Roemer's decision not to allow the students to return to school for the second semester. 
Roemer, however. has insisted that the students will-be able to petition the University for re-admission next year. 
"The four students were "inadequately counseled about the consequences of signing the statement.'' another informed source charged. 
''The only option of appeal open to them now is to appeal their case up through th( administration hierarchy," the first source explained. The progression of appeal would therefore be through Bro. Just Paczesny. vice president of student affairs, Fr. James T. Burtchaell. university pnvost and then finally to Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. university president. 
The four students refused to comment on whether they would pursue this appea!, or on any other aspect of the case. Roemer and Sr. Kathleen Madden also refused to comment on the case. 
"The parietal and alcohol violations clearly did not include any sexual offense," one of the sources added. "They were suspended because of breaking two of Roemer's Nine Commandments." 

by Chris Smith Asst. Managing Editor 
The Notre Dame Women's track team, together with Burger King, will sponsor a promotional campaign this Saturday, Nov. 13, to raise operating capital for this year's team. 
"We are not even considered a club sport, but just a spectal interest group," satd Sue Hehnke, who is running the fund-raising effort together with Peggy Hester and Helen Weber. "Because of this s\atus," she explained, "we are not funded. Of course, we need money to buy equipment and for traveling expenses. 
"Through the Burger King promotion," said Behnke, "we hope to show that we have the interest and the willingness to do the work. Only then can we gain the cooperation of the athletic department." 
According to Weber, "Coupons will be available in the Penny Saver, South Bend Tribune and Thursday's and Friday's Obaerven. Also, coupons will be distributed at Burger King all day Saturday. 
"Present the coupons in the newspapers at Burger King, located on U.S. Route 31 North, and buy a Whopper, french fries and a coke." Weber stated. "Burger King will then donate 50 cents to the women's track team operating fund. This special will be in effect during Burger King's Saturday operating hours which are 10:30 a.m. until midnight," she added. 
Behnke noted that the St. Mary's shuttle bus will be re-routed on Saturday from 6 p.m. until midnight and will make an additional stop at Burger King. "Thus, students who do not have cars are able to take part in the fund-raising effort and can help the track team," she commented. 
"WRBR will be promoting our fund drive all week 
and all day Saturday," Behnke rontinued. "In 
[eoadaaed • ,..e 3] 
..--~-~:--------~.~------:---~---.,....i----------· --~-------------­
•·. 

2 
the observer Tuesday, November 9, 1976 

~--News Briefs----. 
J=======================lntemational 
Dog shoots man 
LUNEVILLE, France-A French soldier was slightly wounded in the shoulder Friday by a rifle shot triggered by a dog, police said. The dog belonged to a 17-year-old hunter who was firing from an upstairs window of his home at practice targets he had'set up in the garden. The dog, apparently excited by the • shooting. jumped up and touched the trigger as his master prepared to fire again. 
t==-=~-:-:::=-::=-==-============:=::::::=:::::==N ational VAW sets deadline 
DETROIT -The United Auto Workers told General Motors Corp. yesterday that the company had until midnight Nov. 18 to come to terms on a new contract covering 390,000 hourly employees. But both sides said they were confident an agreement could be fashioned without a strike before the deadline. 


rndiana Republicans elect Speaker 
INDIANAPOLIS -In diana Republicans elected Kermit 
0. Burrous House speaker and Eugene H. Lampkin as majority leader today in caucus sessions here. Robert 
J. DuComb was chosen to head the GOP House caucus. The result must be confirmed by the full Housek, which meets for an organization session Nov. 16. 
---On Campus Toda~,_. 
noon 
5 30 pm 
5:30pm 
4 pm 
4 30 pm 
7 pm 
7.30 pm 
7:30pm 
7:30 & 10 pm 
7:30pm 
7:30 & 10 pm 
8 pm 
10 pm secretaries brown bag luncheon. "mirages of memory: 200 years of indiana art" by marilyn holscher, n.d. art gallery. 
computer course. "command procedure (clist) pro­gramming in mvs" (for experienced tso usuers only) room 115, computer center/math bldg. 
colloquium. "conceptual frameworks" by prof. gary gutting, n.d. 1132 library conference room. sponsored by center for the study of man. 
colloquium. "behavioral engineering in the natural setting" by dr. chris anderson, n.d. room 119 haggar hall. 
seminar. "the biology of repreduction in nematodes" by dr. r.i. sommerville, univ. of adelaide, australia. galvin aud. sponsored by biology dept. 
meeting. all sociology majors concerning pre-registra­
tion. panel discussion. "the ladder of creation" with harvey bender, n.d., timothy lenoir, n.d. & edward manier, n d., library lounge. 
olympic medalist, rick wohlhuter will give a talk in howard hall. 
meeting. faculty senate. room 202, cce. 
film. "thieves like us" engineering aud. cinema '77. 
tickets: $1. 

meeting. charismatic prayer meeting. Iafortune student center. 
film. "no man of her own" carroll hall [smc]. sponsored by social commission. tickets:$1. 
fashion show. ebony fashion fair. o'laughlin aud sponsored by sorelie antre nous sorority. ~tickets: $10 which is a donation to the united negro college scholarship fund. 
meeting. knights of columbus in council chambers. refreshments will be served. 


ERRATUM 
It was reported in the Observer on Oct. 29 that eight business courses would open to non­business majors this spring. The t·ourse selection schedule, how­ever. listed only two of these, Social Marketing and International Marketing, as recommended uni­versity electives. 
Space is still available for non­business majors in the following courses: Basic Accounting, Manu­facturing Management, Funda­mentals of Management Science, Administrative Law, Law and the Individual, and Management Research Seminar. Students who wish to register for these courses should contact either the Regi­strar's!office at ?162or the sp~cific., department for more information. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Debbie Dahrling 
Asst. Night Editor: Leigh Tu­nakan Layout Staff: Tracy McAuliffe, 
Fred Kunzinger Editorial Layout: Pat Hanifan Features Layout: Tim O'Reiley Sports Layout: Ray O'Brien Typists: Kitty Conklin, Nancy 
Cueroni, Mel Celeste, Kathy Egbert E.'M.T.: Karen Chiames Day Editor: Mary Pat Tarpey 
Copy Reader: Cathy Nolan Photographer: Dominick Yo­cius 
A special thanks to the talent­ed John Calcutt .for his tre­mendous 'he1p! • · ' • ' ' ' · ' ' 
' 

National film competition to offer 


new opportunities for students 
NEW YORK, N.Y.\ An unprece­dented new film competition for college and university students has been announced by the Nissan Motor Corporation in the United States. Called FOCUS--Films Of College and University Students-­the competititon is being conducted in cooperation with Playboy Maga­zine, Pioneer Electronics of Amer­ica and Bell & Howeli-Mamiya Co. 
FOCUS is open to any student in the United States enrolled in a college university, art insititute or professional film school. The competition provides an opportuity for college-level film student to compete for Datsun automobiles, scholarships and film equipment in the categories of filmmaking and film study. 
The film competition is the first annual event on college campuses to reward excellence in filmmaking and film study. According to Robert Kent, Vice President-Mar­keting Services for Nissan,' the 

Sophomores to register for all Arts and Letters courses Nov. 17 
by Barb Langhenry Senior Staff Reporter 

In response to an Arts and · Letters Student Advisory Council 
(ALSAC) suggestion, sophomores 
from all colleges will register for 
their Arts and Letters courses 
together on Wednesday, Nov. 17, 
in Stepan Center. 

Arts and Letters sophomores will 
be able to get their Form SO's 
signed before registration on Mon­
day, Nov. 15 or Tuesday, Nov. 16, 
in Room 101 of O'Shaughnessy 
Hall. Room 101, the dean's office, 
will also be open for counseling on 
those days. 

Registration will then take place 
all day Wednesday in Stephan 
Center. The students will not be 
divided alphabetically, as was done 
for sophomores last semester. 

Isabel Charles, dean of the 
College of Arts and Letters, stated 
Eagle's tickets still available 

Tickets for the Eagles concert in 
Chicago are still available. 

Approximately 25-30 seats are 
left for the Nov. 11 concert to be 
held in the Chicago Stadium. The 
ticket package, which includes the 
cost of the ticket and bus transpor­
tation to and from Chicago, is $16. 
Students can purchase tickets at 
the Student Union ticket office. For 
further information, call Student 
Union, 7757. 

l hP ob,Prvf'r" rubliShPd Monday through I ndiiy and weekly durmg tht> sumnwr ~P'>SIOn. exct>pt during thP exam and vacation pt>riods The Oh~P~ver IS publi,hed by ~tudPnts of the University ol Notr(' Dame and St Mary·~ Collt>ge Sub~cript1ons mav hP pur< hd~Pd for $20 per year ($10 pPr seme~tPr) irom llw ObsPr­ver. Box Q. ~otre Dame, Indiana 46556 Second class po~tagt> pa1d, Notre DamP, Indiana 46556 
lhP Observer i~ a membPr of the AssouatPd Press. All reproduction righh art> rt>servt>d 
arm 
llarber & Hair Style Shop 
a. 
Open six days a 
n 
week Mon-Fri 8 to 5 :30 . 
Sat 8 to 3:()0 
d 
1437 N. Ironwood South Bend Appointment only 0 


277-061~ ,,'s. 
C-lose ·to Campus 

competition was established to "provide the more than 100,000 college-level students involved in film study each semester with an opprotunity to achieve recognition for their work in a nationally significant contest.'' 
The FOCUS competition permits students to develop entries for either of two categories: 
filmmaking  or  film  study.  The  
theme of the competition is  "On  
The Road in America."  

Filmmaking entrants will be judged on their ability to capture the essence of the theme in a short film which can be animation, experimental, documentarv or nar­rative, Kent sairl. · 
Duplicate awards are provided in each category: ' First place -a $3,000 scholarship and a Datsun B210 Hatchback; Second place -a $1,000 scholarship and a Bell & Howell 1744Z Super 8 film projec­tor; honorable mention -a Bell & Howell 1733Z film projector. 
Prescreening of film study en­tries will be conducted by Playboy Magazine's editorial staff. Among the final board of judges for the film study are critics Judith Crist of Saturday Review; Andrew Sarris of the Village Voice; Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times; Arthur Knight of the Hollywood Reporter; and Bruce Williamson, contribu­ting film editor for Playboy Maga­zine. 
Pre-screening filmmaking judges are Frank Kavanaugh, executive producer Airlie Productions; David 
L. Parker, head, technical unit, motion picture section, Library of Congress; Thomas Radford, film coordinator, National Endowment for the Arts; Marin Pearson-Allen, instructor, radion-television-film division, Department of Speech & Dramatic Art, University of Mary­land. 
To obtain further information on FOCUS together with entry blanks in either category, write to FOCUS, 530 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10036. 
that students can go to register whenever they are free. "Every sophomore will have equal oppor­tunity and can register according to their own schedules,", she added. 
"In the past, Arts and Letters' sophomores were at a disadvantage because they had to have their forms signed the day of registra­tion, before they registered for any classes, while the sophomores 
from other colleges were able to register for classes without that wait," stated Jenni Imfeld, ALSAC member. 
She added that with the central location for registration, no alpha­betical division and the ability to hav.e course selections approved before the day of registration, Arts and Letters sophomores will have an equal chance for the classes in their own college. 
Charles had met with the ALSAC early in September and stated that this is one of the items they had discussed and it was worked on right away. 
FAST 

TYPEWRITER 
REPAIR 
IJ:I:I:fB,! 
2915 Mishawaka Ave. 

PLUS PARTS, MOST CARS 

SPEC.IALISlrS Jl IIGINE TUNE-UP, IIAIES, AII-C..DITIINIMG Yz BLOCK SOUTH OF MISHAWAKA K-MART 
BANMAM£RIWD 


259-6391 
--OPEN MON.-SAT. 8-5 



Insurance appraisals and purchases of fine diamonds and estate jewelry provided. 
*Graduate Gemologist: Gemological Institute of America "Fellow Gemmologist: 
Gemmological Association of Great Britain *B.A.: Indiana University 
Lobby St. Joseph Bank Building South Bend, Indiana Telephone: 287-1427 
John M. Marshall's 

COiamond J)mpoht Company 
Your Source for the Unusual 
..........l,,...... 

' .. ....
0 
• , o I ' 4 I i. I ' : I' , # '• • ::·•• -. • • 

I' H 
1 

Due to recent Dreacnes Tuesda~N..;.;;o_;ve:..:.:m.:..=b-=.::er....:.9:..!....,..:.:19:..:....76::. ______.:t:..:._h:..:e~o=:b~s-=e~rv.:_:e~r---=-3 





ND legal system outlined 
EDITORS NOTE: This article will attempt to clarify what behavior, in the view of Notre Dame's ad­ministration, is expected of stu­dents Uving on campus. It will also examine the hall and University legal system, and what recourse is available to students who are accused of breaking the rules. 
by Chris Smith Asst. Managing Editor 

On Oct. 28 seven students living 
in Sorin Hall were told by the dean 
of students to be out of that hall 
within four days. On Oct. 24, two 
students from Dillon were caught 
breaking parietals and were sub­
sequently dismissed from the Uni­
versity, together with two Lyons 
Hall residents whose room they 
were visiting. 
In both of these cases, the 
students involved claimed ig­
norance of the severity of their 
actions in the view of the ad­
ministration and hall staffs. Both 
sets of students expressed surprise 
at the extent of their punishment 
for their actions. 
Du Lac 1976-77, Notre Dame's 
student manual, states disciplinary 
procedures as they are to be 
followed by the University ad­
ministration and the hall staffs. 
Procedure One is: Offenses a­
gainst the good order of the hall 
community are considered within 
the hall. Procedure Two states that 
Offenses against the good order of 
the University community .•. are 
not considered bv the hall. 
Improper Behavior 

Dean of Students James A. Roemer listed, "the kinds of be­havior that are considered im­proper for on campus students and might result in disciplinary ac­tions." Among the actions were, "a demonstrated refusal to co­operate with the hall staffs; bring­ing in kegs; constant noise prob­lems; causing of safety hazards; constant drunkeness, the inability to handle oneself; bullying of others and setting fires or setting off fire alarms." 
According to Roe>mer. ··any one of these offenses might get .you into trouble with the hall staff. but a combination of them would bring a student before the dean of stu-
Homecoming tix now on sale 

This .year's homecoming dance, "Around the World in 80 Days" will be held Fri., Nov. 19 at Stepan Center from 9pm to lam. Tickets can be purchased at the Student Unio'n ticket office until Friday, Nov. 19. 
Tickets will also be available at the dining halls starting Mon., Nov. 15. The cost is $5 per couple and refreshments will be served. Music will be provided by "Catch" a group which has just recently signed a contract with London Records. Those who have pur­chased homecoming ticket pack­ages are reminded that they must redeem their coupons for dance tickets at the Student Union ticket office. 
need posters in a hurry? 

I
• • (!,
•nsly·pr•nls 
the wiz CJ!. the printingbiz! 
100 -111 x\17 posters Only $10.oo· 
203 N. Main SoBend 289-6977. 

dents." Roem'-r stated that most problems in the halls went no further than the hall rector. "Furthermore," he said, "I know of no case brought before me where there has not been a long-standing discussion between the students 

Observer Insight 
involved and their rector." 

Several rectors outlined their 
views on the standards they would 
like to see their halls meet, and 
what offenses they felt would 
warrant expelling a student from 
their hall or approaching the dean
of students for action. The 
University can expel a student from 
a hall by right of regulation six, 
which state: The University re­
serves the right to transfer a 
student's residence. 
Christian Lifestyle Expected 

Fr. Dan Jenky, rector of Dillon, felt that a community "typical of how you would live in the adult world" should exist within the hall. 
"A great deal of responsibility goes along with this,'' he pointed out. "This means one's personal life should not inter­fere with others· freedom and privacy." Jenky also indicated that. "a certain Christian lifestyle should prevail." 
Fr. John Mulcahy, Flanner's rector, expressed a similar stand­ard for behavior of hall residents. "I expect maturity. The students are responsible for their behavior.'' he said. Mulcahy thought that a hall should be, "a quiet place where students can study. and where they're concerned about each other." 
This concern for other students was echoed by Breen-Phillips Rec­tor Sr. Vivian Whitehead, O.S.F .. 
who felt that the hall should be a 
Christian community. "We want 
the hall members to help each 
other," she said. "It goes deeper 
than specific rules. A violation of 
the spirit of the hall is what we 
would consider an offense," stated 
Whitehead. 
None of the rectors interviewed 
expressed a definite set of rules. 
What each tried to express was a 
general philosophy about hall life. 
based upon the Christian ideal of 
concern for -others. Situations 
which violate this phil­
osophy seemed to be the common 
definition of what constitutes a hall 
offense. 
Although the rectors appear to set :: very subjective basis for running their halls, none of them thought that this prevented them from being fair to the students. Mulcahy described the rector's job as, "trying to remedy situations before they become a matter for the dean of students." Whitehead's goal is. "for each student to be known personally by the hall staff." In this way. she said, problems can be dealt with on the personal level before they get out of hand. 
Rights given in du Lac According to Bob Bode. student government judicial coordinator. • "some rectors take away the choice of having a hearing before the hall judicial board in cases involving hall violations." This right. said Bode, is stated in disciplinary procedure One. "If there is a serious matter." advised Bode, "I recommend that the student in­volved see myself or his own hall judicial coordinator for advice." Bode also recommended reading du Lac, which lists exactly what rules the students and the rectors must obey. "Many students don't understand that the hall judicial boards are an alternative to the rector as a hearing agent for hall offenses,'' he said. 

Pre-victory armory bash scheduled for Nov. 12 
byBobGm reasons." Staff Reporter Tickets, 1which will include the dance and transportation. are $3 
"The Night the Tide Died". is and go on sale Wednesday, Thurs­the theme of this years second day and Friday nights in the !lrmory party. The pre-victory following locations: North and celebration, sponsored by the No­South Dining Halls. St. Mary's tre Dame Social Commission, will Cafeteria and the Notre Dame be Friday, Nov. 12. Student Union. 
·The party will feature beer and Orlando and Martell stressed pretzels, with music by Awakening that the event is a "chance to relax a popular Chicago based group. and meet people, not a beer The dance will start at nine p.m. throwing contest.''. and last until 1 a.m. Buses will 
and from the dance fo< in,u<ancc • 
FREE!!! • 
Soft drink with 3 items • 
• TACOS • AI'ITACO • 
• HIIITOS • TMAIES • 
• 
EICIIlADAS • TACO DOl 

• 
TOSTA_lO$ •-IEA.I TACO 


•18~R8JQUE TACO e SPAIIISI lOT DOl 

• CIEESEIURIER •• 
Specializing in 


: 
vegetarian ~oods. ! 
• 
• 
• 
• 
When an offense is considered by the rector or the hall judicial board to be very serious, they may take the case to the dean ot students. "A student may appeal to Roemer, if he feels that his case was unfairly handled. However, I 
would  advise  seeing  myself  for  
counselling  in  such  cases,"  said  
Bode.  



Rlgbt to Appeals When a case goes before the dean of students, the student involved has the choice of having a hearing before Roemer or before 
du Lac: the students guide to 
someone appointed by him. Or the rules and regulations of the they may choose a hearing before University.
the University Judicial Board. If due to the fact that manv studentsthe student feels that he had an do not know their full rights.
unfair hearing from whichever of 
these three he has chosen, he may Final Decision go to the University Ap­After a case is deddcd by the peals Board. He must. however. Appeals Board. a final appeal may
satisfy the Appeals Board 'that be made to the president of the there has been an abuse of discre­University. As stated in disciplin­tion or that new evidence has been ary procedure 2f. "The Prcsidl'nt found. has the final dcci~ion in disci­
The Board. composed of a stu-· plinary matters brought before dent, Reed King. a faculty mem­him." Also. he may accept l>r ber, Prof. George Brinkley and an refuse to hear all appeals brought 
administrator. Carl Ebey. This before him. board must be appealed to within Roemer compared Notre Dame·~ five days. according to King. and judicial system to a corporate they reach their decision within five structure, where appeals can be more days. "Everyone should read made to higher levels in the du Lac; their rights are outlined organization. He characterized there." advised King. Notre Dame as being. "much more 
King said that the board has not tolerant than most places in 'the had any cases so far this year. time they arc willing to spend. the Bode speculated that this may be things they arc willing to hear. .. 
I ~ir 1{irhard5 HAIR SJYLIN§
Member of 1976 State Hairstyling 

FORMEN& WOMEN 277·9734 129 Dixieway South 
®
Award Winning Stylist 
277·0734 
(31 N in Roseland, half mile N. of Campus) 

TAKE THE CHALLENGE 
Warehouse Sound Co Audio 
LIST San Luis Obispo, Ca Outlet Pioneer Project 60 speakers $79.95 ea. $46. ea. $39.50 ea Harmon Kardon 330 AM-FM receiver $219.95 $173. $149. 
San sui 9090 AM-FM receiver $7 50 TEAC. 170 Dolby cassette deck 240. Si!nsui 551 AM-FM receiver $260. 
LIST 

Marantz 22356 AM·FM receiver $450 Marantz 22156 AM-FM receiver $250 Technics SA 5460 AM-FM receiver $400 Kenwood KR2600 AM-FM receiver $190 Pioneer SXSSO AM-FM receiver $250 
$537. $198. $19~.  J445. 1171. $146.50  
RMS Audio South Bend.  Inn  Audio Outlet  
$370 $199 $330 $155 $199  $290 $163.50 $254.75 $128 $176  




AUDIO~ 
325 Pascack Avenue I Washington Township. New Jersey 07675 
For I-nformation Call 283-1181 
leave St. Mary's Holy Cross and ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••~• ._ Notre Dame circles starting at 8:30 • -n _ -. 
& 1
p.m. and running continuously. • ....\. ~ V ~ •
b 

According to armory organizers, ,.'l).~ ~, ft.' ~ . ....\. • Mike Orlando and John Martell,. ;,v ~ ...._, ~ /:-~ "Everyone must take the buses to. ~ 0 0 &~ (li • 
~ ~ ~ • 
• ~ ~0 
~•••••••••••••••••••...•.......••
-,' 
O(:!' q $' +'-.v.J ' ~o~ .rJ><f : 
A0 A.~ &.. tj. ..~ ~ e ~~ ',... ~~ 0 '"'1 (I •


0 ~ ~ • 


.,..,.~~ 
v 

~ ~0 
• ~ ~&-:. '-'lj •• 
~ " r} ~ 
$.t-1,~"" ~'li ~ o~·~~~0......, i ,._q •· ~ "~ e'li .~ ~-;, ~· • 
~ •YV V ~ ~ ~ •
~(/J ~~ .. .r...Cb-· ......~ ~~ fbt:o• ·~CJ ~ ~~-~ o c}o •
~t!fl , ...~~~ ~ •
i 
..11.\.•. ·'· 


'*The Observer an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the' Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free PxprPs~ion of varying opinions on campus. 
Business Manager Tom Fronczak Advertising Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor Tony Chifari Production Manager Martha L. Fanning 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief Dan Sanchez Managing Editor Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed. 
Gregg Bangs Executive Editor Val Zurblis Executive Editor Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor Bob Mader Exec. News Editor 
Maureen Flynn Campus Editor Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor Don Reimer Copy Editor Tim O'Reiley Features Editor Fred Herbst Sports Editor 
·~--------------­
Tuesday, November 9, 1976 

Uniust and Absurd 
Once again Notre Dame is treated to the ridiculous sight of grown men, adminis­trators at one of the nation's finest universities, playing cops and robbers with evidence gathered by peeping into bath­rooms and bedrooms at what other grown people are doing after midnight. This parietals prosecution would be merely another Keystone Kops episode if it were not for the fact that four students were unjustly suspended in accord with a rule that violates the essence of a Catholic Univeristy. 
The absurdity of the administration's action is clear from the facts of the case. According to our sources the incident did 
-not involve a violation of the sexuality rule. The two men had simply become inebriated and slept into the forbidden time. The administration claims that the parietals violation was aggravated by a violation of the alcohol regulation. There is nothing in the parietals rule that in any way indicates a violation of it can be aggravated by the use of alcohol. Nor is there anything that says staying in ar opposite sex's dorm all night is worse than staying in that dorm for one minute into the parietals period. There is no clear rule against occasionally getting drunk; if there was, and it was enforced by suspension, this place would be a ghost town --and there would not be any more adminis­trators than students here. A penalty so disproportionate to the "offense" makes a mockery of administra­tive claims to be acting in the manner of ·a loving "parent" and a generous Christian. The injustice is increased by inequity: many other students have been caught breaking parietals and gotten off with only a token penalty or a warning. There is a great disparity among the halls on how the parietals rule is enforced: some treat it like a crime against nature while others handle it within the hall in a rational manner. Different cases in the same hall are sometimes handled differently. Even cases which reach the Dean's office do not always end in suspension. Another question of justice is also raised by Roemer's suggestion that the students waived their right to appeal his decision. The students agreed to this suggestion before his decision was made, thus giving up the chance to have it reviewed before the University Appeals Board. Whatever 
Roemer's reasons for this suggestion 
were, it at least gives the appearance that 
he was afraid to have his decision 
examined. That hardly reassures students 
of his fairness. 
The injustice of the case seems to result from intelligent men under the Dome wasting their intelligence trying to defend an indefesible rule. When the illogic of this is clear, they fall back on power--what louis XIV called "the ultimate argument of kings." Certainly, there is no rational way to reconcile the parietals rule with Christianity, Catholicism or the views of this University as either a free community or a family. 
An attempt to instill private sexual morality by rules and coercion is improper at a Catholic University. It violates Vatican II' s Declarations on Religious Freedom and on Education. Religious organiza­tions, said the Council, "ought at all times to refrain from any manner of action which might seem to carry a hint of coercion.'' Youth has a "sacred right" to "weigh moral values with an upright conscience and to embrace them by personal choice.'' 
The parietals rule even contradicts the administration's own in loco parentis theory as that doctrine is set forth by Fr. Burtchaell in his famous "life With(out) Father'' article. Burtchaell stresses that in loco parentis "need not imply ... that the student is a juvenile while his teacher is an adult . . . Nor need that parent-child relationship always be colored by author­ity.'' But the parietals rule is an exercise of authority which can be justified only if the student is a juvenile too irresponsible to determine when he or she should entertain members of the opposite sex. 
The current case only confirms that enforcing the rule requires reducing the hall staffs to the status of "house dicks, "as well as frequent invasions of privacy. To have rectors padding about the halls in the wee hours of the morning, looking for illicit visitors and handing over students to the Dean for punishment will strain the bonds of mutual respect fundamental to com­munity life. 
The shoddiness of the rule itself worsens the injustice of its application. In their concern for students' morals the adminis­tration should quit confusing one of Roemer's Nine Commandments with one of Moses' Ten. 
~ WHICH I l.OVE/ 
::> NONETH£/.£55, 
m 71115 IS IAIITHM Q{}£5!10N 71-1& THANK.fB 8£ST0/NN&R. Y0/1R1CK.
z I'VEiHAOAU 

FAST; 700.
I

0 FALL/ I 
\
0 
c 

Last Saturday night's New Keenan Re­view and the subsequent reception show that students c.an do more than complain about the moribund social "life" at Notre Dame. With good imaginations and a lot of work students can bring that social "life" to life. 
The men of Keenan Hall put together a show that (aside from some low blows aimed at The Observer!) was truly a "class" event. They followed it by hosting a post-review reception which showed, contrary to popular belief, that it is possible to have a social event here which is not centered on alcohol. We join with the organizers in hoping that the New Keenan Review was also the First Annual Keenan ~view. Its contribution to the University would be even greater if other halls are moved by Keenan's example to 
L 
apply their creativity toward making the _J
social life here a bit more livable. ' 
seriousIy, fo Iks!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Sticking With the Losers 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii art bu c hwaI d 
WASHINGTON--After every e­lection the fickle media tend to interview the winners. No one seems to care about the losers. It has always been my policy to stay with the losers and find out why they blew it. 
This year I talked to several of 
them. · The first was George Merchan­tile, an incumbent congressman who was defeated handily by Carter Crawfish in what many people said was an upset. 
Merchantile told me, "I believe my biggest mistake was not com­municating with .the voters. In­stead, I did most of my commu­nicating with my press secretary, Lizzie Poivron, never suspecting that she would tape all our con­versations at the Holiday Inn Motel. My opponent decided to use these private conversations against me which I consider des­picable. I should have been suspicious when I kissed Lizzie on the ear and discovered a small microphone stuck in it. But when you're in the heat of a campaign you don't think about those things. Besides,! promised Lizzie no more and no less than I promised the voters. Most of what the public heard about the tapes was taken out of context. All they read was what I promised Lizzie, and not what I promised the country." 
Archibald Blandana, who lost his seat in Congress, was another bitter loser. "I would have won it if my opponent had played fair. But he madecapitalout of the fact that I had accepted a $50,000 gift in cash from the South Korean govern­ment. The truth is that I turned down the gift, so Tong Pong Long, a very dear friend of ours, gave it to my wife without my knowledge. 


I had warned my wife never to 
accept expensive gifts from a 
foreign government, but she main­
tains I never said anything about 
cash. Had she told me about it I 
would have made her return 
$20,000 of it immediately." 

Robert Quovadis, who lost a 
close governor's race, was more 
philosophical than bitter. "We all 
make mistakes. I imagine mine 
was posing chained in the nude n 
in Hustler magazine being whipped 
by three women wearing black 
boots. I thought at the time I could 
reach the blue-collar workers who 
do not necessarily read the news­
papers, but apparently I was 
wrong. If the same picture had 
appeared in Family Circle I'm 
certain there wouldn't have been 
an uproar. I'm not saying that this 
photograph made me lose the 
election, but it put me on the 
defensive in the final weeks and no 
one was interested in what I had to 
say about the new school bond 
issue I had proposed for the state.'' 
Harlan Hathaway, who was run­ning for attorney general of his state, blamed his defeat on his speech writers. "When Earl Butz resigned," Hathaway told me, "I hired the fellow who wrote jokes for him. I thought they were very funny and so did .all the guys at the country club where I play golf. But when I started to tell them in ethnic neighborhoods the people just didn't laugh. So then I switched and came out 'for the death penalty. They didn't laugh at that either. I never saw so many uptight voters in my life as I did this year. " 
Probably one of the saddest losers was Floyd Harmony, who ran for the school board in Dutch­ess County. 
Floyd put up $3 million of his· own money, most of it for television commercials. "The trouble was I saturated the state with the com­mercials and eve'ryone thought I was running for senator. I got one. m\llion votes for ·senator and only 30 for the school board. Mother is very angry with me because I used up the entire family's trust fund and she had to go down today to apply for food stamps." 
Carl Schmidlapp was the final loser I talted to. Schmidlapp fe~ls he lost the election because he agreed to debate his opponent. He told me, "I gu gu guess y'y'y'you sh sh should never de de de de de bate your opp on on on onent if y'y'y'you have a st st st st st st stutter." 
-------l 
Tuesday, November 9, 1976 the observer 5 
1



Anything Went 
B!J Katie Kerwin 
The New Keenan Revue last Saturdav Rick, Dough and Dennis Klee and friend night opened up some fresh and innovativ~ Lee Hendricks sang "It Will All Roll By," possibilities in the way of campus enter­which was written by Doug and Lee, and tainment. Many students who came "The Two of Us." Doug and Dennis expecting some sort of glorified talent returned later in the program to play the contest left Washington Hall greatly Beatles' "She's Leaving Home," and "A impressed by the variety of talent Keenan Friend's Song," written by Doug. Dennis had amassed and by their successful varied the mood with his 'impromptu'co-ordination of all of the program's addition of the Oreo cookie song. They also components. played c"Love Potion Number Nine" and The stage band, excellent as a perform­"Clare's Song," which Dennis wrote. The ing element in its own right, lent·a sense of brothers, easily one of the smoothest and continuity to the show and gave the whole most professional acts of the evening, program a polished, professional touch. combined skillful guitar-playing with a The opening number, "That's Entertain­subtle vocal blend to produce an im­
ment," by the Keenan Octet, exhibited pressive over-all effect. . ­more enthusiasm than it did musical value, but it set the show's mood of unself-con­"Do You Like Me?", a parody featuring scious. 'give-it-all-you 've'-got' performing. Louis Gamez and Joe Gill, in a somewhat But the New Keenan Revue's strongest lower stratum of musical quality, amused point was the startling, but solid range of the audience, while poking fun at freshman talent it combined. Greg Hayes at the life, including the terrors of Emil night,
piano brought the audience to its feet with registration day, and pre-med hysteria.
his ragtime, classical and jazz versions of 
"Third Dance from Three Dances," ac­the "Notre Dame Fight Song." Lawrence Bill on the
companied by ShaughnessyMcCarthy put a few new twists on the old piano, was another of the sudden changestalent show stand-by, the juggling act. 
of pace that characterized the revue. 
"Opus in One-Liner" featured John 
"Nothing Like a Dame" was a parody O'Con?or as the stereotyped stand-up commentary on co-education at Notre comedian, who fed the audience one­Dame, set in the Dining Hall, that even the liners, interspersed with intonations from 'dames of the Dome' in question couldn't a mock-serious, white-robed chorus. help laughing at. O'Connor got a laugh or two from his 
Singing acts abounded, ranging from collection of hackneyed "my wife is so fat" Renard Gueringer's mellow renditions of and mother-in-law jokes. Mowtown hits and the Keenan Octet's Bill Shaughnessy, accompanist for sev­harmonizing to "Glow Worm" and "Mood eral other acts, had the spotlight himself Indigo,'' to the rock and folk numbers sung for his piano solo, a jazz piece, which was by the Klee Brothers. well-received by the audien~e. 

Facing Louing 

, By -Fr. Bill Toohey 
In his great new film, Face to Face, chronically depressed, the permanently lngmar Bergman brilliantly reveals the embittered, can purify our motivation of story of a woman who was a victim of even that flickering hope. psychi~ incarceration. Jenny (Liv Ullmann) Here are some scenes, close to home for 
withdraws more and more from reality; is most of us. You watch yourself at a party unable to discover what is real; and you arc giving, let's say. You try your best eventually attempts suicide. Finally to be a good host or hostess: you attempt to 
through the loving presence of her friend, ' reach those on the fringe of the crowd. You Jacobi. and the unusual relationship of her smile, you say a pleasant word. try to make grandparents. Jenny gains Insight into conversation. But the more vivacious, reality and sufficient support to continue outgoing, interesting people keep beckon-. living. At the very end of this powerful ing; and so you find yourself spending film, as Jenny emerges through her most of your time with them. psychic "death" to new life, she utters Then there is the pest. You know the those haunting words: "For a moment I 
type: slightly neurotic, dependent person­knew that love embraces everything, even ality. always needing someone else to 
death." affirm his value, legitimize his continuing 
We can appreciate from Jenny's story existence. To love him doesn't demand we how profound is the gospel challenge to simply allow him to continue his pestering. love. We, too, have had at least some which contributes to further dependence. It experiences that have verified the fact that may sometimes, at least, necessitate a the call for love is unrestricted--in scope, forthright, though gentle, confrontation to conditions and consequences. Its scope is arouse him to a different awareness; at 
all persons; it sets no preconditions of other times, however, simply a kind word worthiness or guaranteed response; and its to help get him through a nervous moment. consequence is so unlimited that it does not In either case, it calls for a loving concern rule out the possibility of laying down of that does not reek of apathy or the will-you­life for another. please-get-lost spirit of irritation. 
We can see something else about love. Finally, there are the occasions when we We can discover that, as for Jesus himself, are expected to return love for emotional it is perfectly normal to seek to evoke a hurt: times when you'd be perfectly 
response of love from each person we love. delighted to have no response at all. To 
Of course, this demands a willingness to offer love to another when that person has accept love as well as to give it; and this is been unjust is torturous. We find ourselves not always an easy thing to do. We have a saying. "That's not right: it's not fair; 
no propensity to be more comfortable saying, one can be expected to love under these "You're welcome" than, "Thank you." In circumstances--when we are misunder­other words, we frequently find ourselves stood by others, maligned, viciously at­wanting . to possess another's gratitude tacked." And yet we know that the 
rather than have to admit, through humble ·demands of love can even, at times, go this thanks. how much we needed the love 
far. someone gave us. Consequently, love is offered with the legitimate proposal that it be reciprocated. The crunch comes from the fact that love is need-oriented; that is, we must be most responsive to those who most need us. But it just so happens that those who most need us are frequently those least capable of, or interested in, responding: children, for example, or students, prisoners, mental patients, drug addicts, the starving, the elderly. It is quite a task to "psyche" yourself up to do something for another, when you know for sure there is no way you can realistically expect a positive response. There is a lingering expectancy somewhere in our consciousness that, even though we haven't asked for any, some re.gard or recompense at least will be forthcoming. A group of women in one of our dorms recently gave a surprise birthday party for one of their roommates. Afterwards, they were enraged: "She didn't even say thanks!" Loving the utterly poor, the 

The Keenan Revue News, presented by a straightfaced team of Rick Thomas, Tom Lenz and Louis Gamez left no stone unturned, as it ridiculed almost every sacred ND institution from the Dancing Irish, Fr. Hesburgh, to even George, the pig farmer. The audience then went into convulsions of laughter when the annexa­tion of Flanner Hall was announced, "in keeping with the doctrine of Keenan's manifest destiny." The newscast, accom­panied by slide projections, was another high point of the show. 
Shawn Scannel's rapid-fire routine, "A Man Walked Into a Nightclub," left the audience with heads spinning. 
Every variety show presented by an all-male cast seems to require at least one act with a guy in a dress and "Cheek to Cheek," a hilarious dance routine to the crooning of Rick Thomas, filled this specification. 
The revue was not without its technical complications and dela}·s. but emcee Rick Thomas and the crew did a commendable • job of keeping things moving. Thomas. Lenz, and all the others involved deserve recognition for their efforts in initiating and producing the revue. 
One can only hope that the revue does· indeed become an annual event. If ND students are looking for occasional alter­natives to the typical crowded parties, movies and rock concerts. the New Keenan Review Offers a new direction in entertain­ment. 
In any case, Keenan has set a new standard in innovative forms of campus entertainment and demonstrated that it has "class," as well as a large reserve of talent and organizational abilities. 
: f •• 
6 

the observer Tuesday, November 9, 1976 
Today's weather across the U.S. 
Hi Albany 38 Albu'que 64 Amarillo 67 Anchorage 40 Asheville 39 Atlanta 47 Birmingham 52 Bismarck 58 Boise 61 Boston 40 Brownsville 76 Buffalo 30 Charleston 27 Charlotte 45 Chicago 35 Cincinnati 35 Cleveland 30 Denver 71 Des Moines 53 Detroit 35 Duluth 30 Fairbanks 41 Fort Worth 65 Green Bay 30 Helena 58 Honolulu 75 Houston 63 

Lo  Outlook  Hi  Lo  
26  cdy  lnd'apolis  37  17  
30  clr  Jacks'ville  61  38  
31  clr  Juneau  42  40  
36  .12 cdy  Kansas City  59  24  
26  clr  Las Vegas  80  47  
29  clr  Little Rock  52  30  
29  clr  Los Angeles  89  63  
24  cdy  Louisville  41  23  
34  cdy  Marquette  29  20  
32  clr  Memphis  53  29  
60  cdy  Miami  73  61  
25  .02 sn  Milwaukee  33  15  
24  .08 cdy  Mpls-St. P.  40  14  
32  clr  New Orleans  62  43  
17  cdy  New York  40  34  
19  cdy  Okla. City  62  29  
24  .06 rn  Omaha  58  20  
36  cdy  Orlando  67  47  
14  clr  Philad'phia  42  31  
21  .04 sn  Phoenix  87  59  
7  cdy  Pittsburgh  26  21  
38  cdy  Portland, Me.  41  28  
36  cdy  Portland, Ore. 64  47  
9  cdy  Rapid City  65  33  
32  cdy  Richmond  43  33  
72  cdy  St. Louis  46  16  
SO  cdy  Salt Lake  64  30  

San Diego  85  59  
Hesburgh  San Fran  75  57  
to  receive  Seattle  60  53  
Ethics award  Spokane  47  39  
Rev.  Theodore  M. Hesburgh,  Tampa  66  45  
C.S.C.. president of Notre Dame,  
will receive the Herbert H. Lehman Ethics Award of The Jewish Theo­ Washington  42  35  
logical Seminary of America  at  a  

dinner Nov. 9 in New York City. 

The award is presented to indi· viduals whose public service re­flects the ethical precepts of their religious faith. Former recipient~ 
Outlook cdy clr .13 rn cdy clr clr clr clr .03 cd\ clr clr cdy cdy cdy clr clr cdy clr clr clr .07 cdy clr .03 rn clr cdy cdy clr clr rn cdy cdy clr cdy 

U.S. Labor Party ar~ouses viewer concern with NBC broadcast 
The U.S. Labor Party, which received national prominence with an unprecendented half-hour prime time election eve broadcast, is a group whose harassment of other leftists, and large expenditures have created concern among much ofthis country's radical movement. 
Audiences across the country flooded NBC offices with protest calls Nov. 1 as presidential candi­date Lyndon LaRouche predicted nuclear war if Jimmy Carter were elected. 
"His advisers are men with long-standing records generally as maniacs of war," LaRouche said. "With Jimmy Boy this nation will be headed for war." 
NBC had been ordered by the FCCto accept the unusual paid broadcast --which cost roughly $95,000 --since LaRouche, running for president on 25 state ballots, was ruled a qualified candidate for federal office. 
LaRouche and his party contend that all other American radical groups are agents of "Rockefeller police-state conspiracy" to control 
.world banking and trade and that 
only the Labor Party can lead a 
successful world revolution. 
LaRouche's state aim, according to Labor Party sources, is to "train 
Funds allocated for SMC clubs 
[continued from page 1]
members. Although the law society re­quested $200, they received only 
because they aren't sponsoring any fund raisers.'' The proposal also stipulated the law society request funds from the student and aca­demic affairs budget. 
The sailing club was awarded $60. There are roughly 25-30 SMC students, out of a total of 80, active 
in the club and Bilek noted that the $60 represented more proportion­ally than the $100 alotted by Notre Dame.
Tutti Bitoy, speaking on behalf of 
the business club, petitioned $220 to be used toward the establish­ment of a business library. She said, "There are approximately 500 business majors at St. Mary's, They shouldn't have to go over to Notre Dame all the time to find information and receive material." 
include Sen. Edward W. Brooke oJ Massachusetts. John W. Gardne1 
RICK WOHLHUTER 
of Common Cause, Attorney Gen­eral Edward H. Levi and Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall. 
The Jewish Theological Semi­narv of America trains rabbis. can.tors. teachers and jewish com­munal professionals as an educa­tional center for the Conservative Movement in Judaism . 
!• 
t 
ONCE 
PRESENTS 

HURRICANES. 
2,000 leaders to rule the world" answerable only to him. 
Terrorist Information Project (TI P), a left-wing research group based in Arlington, Va., r1ecently released a long report based on interviews with past and present Labor Party _p~embers. TIP did the research in cooperation with the Fifth Estate, publishers of the well-known magazine CounterSpy. 
According to the TIP report, the Labor Party is a "reflection of Marcus' ego, Marcus' thirst for power. Marcus is the key to the part's strategy of harassment and destruction of progressive move­ments in the United States, Europe and Mexico." , 
The Labor Party split from the Students for a Democratic Society in 1968 and consolidated in 1973 into a small but tightly knit group under LaRouche, a former Socialist Workers Party member and com­puter technician. 

CHIMES. 

tl)e St. Mary's College Uterary Magazine, is now accepting manuscripts for publication --stCl•ries, poems, plays, non-fiction, pho-tographs, art work of any kind. 
Should be sent to: Chimes, Care of Max Westler 
Madaleva Hall 
St. Mary'l!t Col~l8
.._________________________• 
9 -12
OLDIE'S NIGHT 
•..25 DRAFTS 
$1.00 ALL NIGHT TONIGHT 
•.25 MIXED DRINKS
and Every Tuesday!!!!! 
" II. ' \ ' \. .. \ \ .. ,. ' " •.: ' ...... l ••~ • • •........... ' " 

---~ 
. .. ----,-------------,---------.,..-.,
---.--~ 
) --~------~----------~-------------------­
Tuesday, November 9, 1976 the observer 
Insurance men roam campuses
*Observer 

Sports 
Anderson leads second half rally over Rams 
CINCINNATI [AP] • Cincinnati's slumbering offense woke up in the third period to strike for three touchdowns, two of them on Ken Anderson passes, and the Bengals ~eat the Los Angeles Rams 20-12 in a National Football League game Monday night. 
The Bengals, virtually dormant and plagued by penalties and dropped passes throughout the first half of the nationally televised game when the Rams were scoring on a pair of field goals, erupted when Boobie Clark burst nine yards for the go-ahead touchdown. It came one play after Los Angeles quarterback James Harris was sacked and fumbled. 
Before the period was over, Anderson tossed touchdown passes of 30 yards to tight end Bob Trumpy and 17 to Clark, who was celebrating his 26th birthday. 
It gave the Bengals a 7-2 record to keep them on top of the American Confe;·ence's Cen­tral Division, two !~ames ahead of 
the resurgent Pitt~ burgh Steeters and Cleveland Browns. 
The Rams, falling to 6-2-1, failed to increase their lead over San Francisco, 6-3, in the National Conference West. 
Anderson, who suffered through his worst first half of the season when his receivers caught only two of his 12 passes for a mere five yards, came back in the decisive third period to burn up the Ram's defense for 105 yards, hitting six of nine passes. 
He also ran 25 yards on a thi1 d-and-four situation, one play before his 30-yard scoring pass to Trumpy which gave the Bengals a 13-6 lead. 

~******************­~ HOMECOMING~ 
~ Ticket Sales : ~ Nov. 8-12
* 
At Student Union ~ Ticket Office 

* 
Ticket Office and ~ Dining Halls.


* Around the world in 80 days!!!! 
~******************t 
Some hungry salesmen are glee­fully watching all those student bodies returning to campuses this fall--the thousands of life insurance salesmen who specialize in the student market. 
For the next nine months agents will be tripping over one another offering decorative beer mugs and other gifts in exchange for an opportunity to talk to students "about their future financial planning." 
The trouble is, the typical student needs life insurance like he needs a few more term paper assignments, according •!O both 
. Changing Times and Consumer Reports. since the basic principle of life insurance is to protect dependents when death causes a discontinuation in income. Most students have neither significant income nor dependents. But the sales pitch is a gem, the market is virgin, and the buyers haven't developed a cynical sales resistance yet. 
A gimmick known in the business as a "deferred premium plan" is the most popular for college students. Under the plan a student signs up for a policy, makes only a token payment of perhaps $10. and defers the rest of the premium for two or three years 
~ 
*~ 
~ ~ 
*~ ~ 
* ~ 
when he will, presumably, be student into the policy tor a making good money. What often minimum length of time. isn't made clear is that the student Numerous warnings have been has signed a promissory note, due issued about the deferred payment after graduation, for the first year's trap by college administrators and 
premium. This note costs extra consumer groups. but it is legal interest and, more importantly and and allows the college life disadvantageously, locks the insurance to flourish. 
Volunteers needed for track team fund raiser 
[continued from page 1] addition to giving away prizes," she explained, "they will be accepting pledges for dona­
tions." The team is looking for someone 
to coach field events. "We have 
two prospective coaches. One is well-versed in sprints, the other will coach distance running,"
Behnke said. • • However, we still need someone to coach the team in field events." added Weber. 
"This year's team," said Behnke, "will be predominantly freshmen and sophomores. We will be holding both indoor and outdoor 
~iiUiiiil'ii;;:~ 
events this season and will be competing against other local col­leges and universities." 
Behnke also announced that the 
team will be making promotionalsignes tonight in lewis Hall Base­ment. startiPg at 9:30 p.m. "Any 
one who can help is urged to bring their own paint brush and come 
and help.·· she said. 

"We also need people to help distribute coupons at Burger King on Saturday," she added. Any one wishing t~ volunteer their -time should contact Peggy Hester, 
HPlen Weber or Sue Behnke. 
NOTICES 
Having a kegger? For free beer delivery and low prices call Chip 288-7878. 
Audio Outlet: All top-name stereo equipment wholesale. Call 283­1181. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-$150 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in: 30 days. Lafortune basement. M-F 11:15-12:15. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
Neat, accurate typing of term papers and manuscripts. Call 287-5162. 
TYPING-35 cents a page. Call Dan 272-5549. 
FOR RENT 
Will rent my upstairs $40 per mo. Girls only. Call 233-1329. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Green down jacket mistakenly trade at North Dining Hall, Line A-B, on Nov. 1. You've got my large and I've got your extra large with gloves. 
Call 1160. 
Pair ot keys on Cartier Field Sideline$. Please call 283-7516. 
LOST: Camera and attachments from occupant's room in Old Field House (Art Dept. l over October Break. Film in camera is important. Owner would greatly appreciate its return. Call 1354 or 4-4820. 
To the bstd. who stole Calif license plate 56SJMV I want it back! Call 1747. 
.-_ 
Lost -Calculator (SR50Al between the Circle and the Library on N D Ave. Thurs. night Oct. 28. Please return. Call Ben 233-4222. 

Classified Ads 
WANTED  
Need 8 GA Alabama tix.  Call Chris  
at 8336.  
Please help!!! I desperately need 3 GA Alabama tickets for parents and a priest. Call Stephanie. 1364.  Need Alabama tickets somethin' fierce. Call Martha at 4819.  
Need two Alabama tix. 1276.  Call Nancy  Need 2 Alabama tickets. Martha at 1715 or 2116.  Call  
Need  BAMA tix Emergency.  Call  Needed:  Two  Chicago  concert  
any time.  Judie 4452.  tickets.  Call. Ed at 683-7506.  
Must get 4 or s Alabama tickets or I will be disowned by family. Call Stan 289-47 40.  Desperately need 2 tickets. Call 4-5237.  GA  Alabama  
Need 6 Alabama tickets. GA. Call Bev 287-2219.  At least 2  Need someone to drive glrtfr.lend from Albany to Nd and bd for. Bama weekend. Call Bill 1140.  
Need 2 GA Miami tickets. 287-2219.  Call Bev  Wanted -1 Alabama ticket. Mike at 8376. r  Cell  
------------­ 
Will pay dollars for 2 GA Alabama tix. Call Tom 3693.  Alabama-2 GA wanted lwlll payl Charlie 287-4931. (No answer 129S.)  
Really desperately need 2 GA Miami tix. Call Cindy at 4-4092.  Need ride to Purdue or Indy Friday ­12th-will share expenses.  
Typing wanted -picked up and delivered, reasonable. Diane 683­· 7759.  Need 1 or 2 Alabama GA tickets. Call 1571.  
Need 2 GA Alaoama tickets. CIaire 6833.  Call  1 Barna ticket GA or student. Any reasonable offer. Call JR 1802.  
SKI for free 15 min. from Notre Da.me. Are you a certified SKi  Will trade two Miami GA tix for One Alabama. 287-2621.  
Instructor, or just an ardent skier who would enjoy instructing? Apply immediately Royal Valley Ski Resort  Will pay big ! ! for 4 GA Alabama tix. Call Diane -4435 or 255-5528.  
Main St., Buchanan, Mich.  616­ Frieri'ds"fromTtlerecomiil9-here?  
695-3847.  Well, some people like snow and ice  
and I need 1 or 2 GA or student (with  
Desperately need  Bam<>  fix  ·  Call  ID) Miami tickets.  Dave 1173. 5-7  
Ruth 7136 or 272-3513.  p.m. or after midnight.·  
Need 3 GA tix or 1 student and 2 GA  - I  NEED  ALABAMA  TICKETS.  
to Miami.  Call  Betsy 4298 or Jim  CAl.L  CHRIS  AT  288-8417  or  
1188.  283-8661.  AFTERNOONS ONl-Y.  
Wealthy relatives need 2 GA Ala- Need 2 good Doobie Bros. tix. Call  

bama tickets. Top'dollar~ ,37~8 .•••.•• ~-Paul \0116: . ~ •.'t ..-,.:.~.-. 
FOR SALE 

IBM Selectric Typewriter. Excellent 
condition. Call 7037. 

71 MG Midget. New top. 26,000 miles. S17SO. Call 289-4702. 
Red girl's Austrian ski boots . like new-size 6 1;~ $90.00. Call 4-5428. 
MILLER HIGH LIFE AND MILLER LITE GOLF HATS, GOLF SHIRTS, T SHIRTS AND WINTER HATS 
FOR SALE. LOW PRICES. BOB 8361. 
Mexican Belts: finest leather belts available. Only $10.00. Call BIG MONEY MURF anytime at 234-1851 
Book Shop. Used books. Students ' 
Paradise. Open Wed., Sal., Sun., 9-7. Ralph Caspers•n Books, 1303 
Buchanan Road., Niles, Mich. 683-2888. . 

Best offer. 1 Bam a ticket. Pat or 
Phil 8582. 

Will trade Chicago concert tickets for Barna pass or tix. Mark 233-4953. 
H EIERLING SKI BOOTS. Top flight. Uke new. Size 11. $75. Call 233-8622 after 5. 
Speakers: Two Realistic MC-1000 speakers. I inch woofer 2 inch ­tweeter, excellent condition, retail $120 pair, my price is $75. Calll511 evenings. 
-1~ 

Are you lonely? Go to the Chicago concert1 One fth row ticket for ule. COlli TerrJ at 7153. 
PERSONALS 

Steve, Paul & Jack · Thanx for 
Saturday nile... and Sunday mor­

ning. . . . . 
"' I·~ I ~ • '• "'~,. "• • ., ­
OK, Amy, Janet and Annette, 

This is a personal just for you! Sorry it didn't con:~e from the moon though. Have a !-terrific week. 
CSPT, 
barb 

Hey you guys-· Janet, Amy and Annetle, It's going to be a busy week. Maybe I'll see you on Thursday!! The big weekend starts Friday. Bye now. Love, Bev 
Afraid to speak up with people? Learn to be assertive at the Asser­tion Training Workshop. First session of four on Thursday, Nov. 11,7-9 p.m., Room 400 Adm. Bldg. Inquire Counseling Center 1717. 
Anyone interesled in Jesuit Volun­teer Corps · meet with representa­tive Tues., 2 p.m. Campus Ministry office in Badin. 
If you're on the stick And you're really quick 
You'il get a chick Who's really slick 
SADIE HAWKINS 

Drop your books in the nearest bin . 
And take a spin at 'he 
SADIE HAWKINS 
Frog. 

Sorry I couldn't tum you into a prince but we have a race son. would like to have a run In soon. So contact us. 
bow 
Hi Bed Companion, Keep your shirt on! Love, Sexy 

Did you like the peaches and cream, ' guys? 
Judy, 

Can we borrow your ID's tomorrow? 
. . 
•· •· ~ • ' • 
" 
•":i!L.___ 


the observer Tuesday, November 9, 1976 
Netters successful in varsity debut 
by EUeen O'Grady Shukis and Jane Lammers respec-· .state," Cordes explained. constantly and always held up well bama, some other schools in Ala­ND Women's Sports Editor tively, and tlie effects of the varsity The one tie was against Fort in tournaments. baina, and a few schools in status itself. Wayne. The match was called Lammers also combined with Louisiana. Besides these matches, Two of their losses were to because of darkness, but had it Diane Shillingburg to make the the team will also play a few more 
Women's Varsity tennis has Eastern Michigan, and Northwes­been played out, Notre Dame number one doubles team on the schools in Indiana, but basically made an excellent start. Just tern. Both schools have at least definitely would have won. So, in squad. The team placed at the their spring season will be short. completing their first season with three scholarship players and more effect, Cordes claims they should state tournament, and also took A question often asked in rela­the new status and the new coach, scheduled for next year. have had an 8-3 season. fifth place in the 33-school Milikin tion to the varsity status, is that of the women racked up an impres­Their thir.d defeat was a 3-6 loss She commends top singles player tournament in Illinois. scholarships. Cordes claims the sive 7 wins, 3 losses and 1 tie to St. Mary's. "But we felt very Mary Shukis as one of the main Cordes puts much emphasis on criterion is that the team prove record. victorious in our own right, because reasons for the success ofthe.team. how the women do at the state itself worthy of them. 
Coach Kathy Cordes accounts our top player, Mary Shukis, beat Shukis, a sophomore from La tournament. Unfortunately this "A team should be competetive, the success to several reasons: their first player Barb Timm, who Grange, Ill., moved to the top year it was the third tournament hard-working, and have a lot of a lot of on the team, is ranked fourth in the state, and position from playing third singles they played in. Although the team depth, to merit scholarships," she last year. took fifth place, Cordes did not feel described. "I think we have shown 
To see her play, one is impressed it adequately reflected their ability. ourselves to be very positive in all not by her serve, but her ability to "I think the state tournament is of these traits." wear her opponent out; a strategy everything," she stated. "The Cordes added that she's had a much like that of Chris Evert. secret next year will be to have few girls, who are ranked in the Cordes describes her as "a very more of my players seeded at the nation, interested in tennis scholar­consistent player. She plays a back tournament, to begin with." ships at Notre Dame. "Consider-0 court game, and waits for her To get players seeded at the ing our success, without scholar­opponents to make the mistakes." state, it takes bargaining by the ship players, this is remarkable," 
Shukis' main asset was that she coach with the backing of a good she explained. "And if we could was forced to play mostly scholar­season the year before, and a attract girls of this nature to our ship people but she was still able to successful short season before the team, it could make us one of the win eight of her 11 matches. Her state. top .!earns in the state and coun­defensive game plan confused Another asset to the team this try. many a player. year was the new varsity status. "I -The coach feels the only way they 
For instance, at the state tour­think it meant to out team that the might improve their record, is by nament this year, her first match school was backing them and it defeating St. Mary's next year. was against the top seeded player gave them a positive attitude as But SMC will have all returning in the state, who had won the they were competing," she ex-players next year, while ND loses tournament both last year and the plained. four key seniors: Jame Lammers, year before that. Shukis was the "For a first year varsity team, Sharon Sullivan, Ellen Callahan only opponent of this Purdue player these girls were just fantastic, and and Anne Gardner. to ever split sets with her. "She have really set a good precedent for, However Notre Dame will still really gave Purdue quite a scare," women's varsity sports," she con-have some excellent underclass-­comments Cordes. tinued. men returning next year such as: 
Another strong point of the team With the varsity status, came an Mary Jo Cushing, Sue Flanigan, was Jane Lammers, second singles increased budget, which Cordes Ginger Siefring al\d Patty Mullin. player and team captain. She also termed ''very fair, very adequate.'' ''All of these gitls were regulars played mostly scholarship players, It must have been, since th team this season, and have a good year and won to· out of her 11 matches. has enough money left over to take of competition under their belts," A more typical player than Shukis, a spring trip down south in March. Cordes commented. "With the Cordes describes her as "an agres­The present plans include play-help of this and the spring trip, we sive player, who rushed the net ing Vanderbilt, University of Ala-should be ready to go next year." 
"1Hayes acknowledges sale '=---• ,~-of tickets by football players 
Cathy Cordes was successful in her debut as the first Notre Dame COLUMBUS, Ohio AP -Woody England Patriots has been quoted behind the Buckeyes and Wolv--Womeri Varsity tennis coach. The team finished with a 7-3-1 record. Hayes, Ohio State's football coach, as saying players swap their season erines. conceded Monday that it's almost books for the use of cars from "It might make them a little
different types of players; continual our second player, Jane Lammers 11 1 b'l d 1impossible to keep co ege p ayers automo 1 e ea ers. mo1·e careful thi's weekend. Juo;t so
strong showings by both the first beat Louise Purcell, who was I>'
from selling or trading their tickets. Rick Middleton, a San Iego they don't get too ti'ght," Haves
and second singles players, mary seeded in the second division at J
"We do everything we can to chargers linebacker and former said of his squad, 6-0 in quest of a discourage it, the university and Ohio State co-captain like Fox, has fifth straight conference title or the Big Ten," Hayes responded to said he sold tickets for his college cotitle.
Soccer 'A' and 'B' 
comments from two of his former spending money. players now in the national Football "It's impossible to completely League. discourage it," Hayes said of tht Field hockey
win over weekend 
Safety Tim Fox of the New practice. "I've never in any wa· said we're perfect. But we sure a team loses two 
by Ray O'Brien team's recored to 8-6-1 on the Sparky writes: hell work in that direction." Sports Writer season. 
Ohio State home tickets are Last Friday and Saturday NotreThe season is scheduled to end 
'Dear Thurman' expecially valuable since the Big Dame's women's field hockey teamthis Friday against Xavier Univer­Ten school has had 49 straight met with a host of other schools at Notre Dame Soccer Club did not sity. "The season has been a DAYTON, Ohio (AP) -Sparky sellouts in Ohio Stadium. The Indiana University for the singleallow freezing weather hamper moderate success thus far," noted Anderson, manager of the two-time Buckeyes always have more re-elimination Indiana State Tourna­club President Augstgen. "How­world baseball champion Cincin­
their performance as they swept quests for season books than they ment. 
two games in weekend action. ever, the game this Friday is very nati Reds, has apologized to Thur­can fill. 
Under the lights Friday night, important for our program. We man Munson for remarks he made "Counting faculty and alumni, A cold, Friday afternoon was the the "B" team snuck by archrival definitely need the support of our to the New York Yankees catcher. we had to turn down 13,000 scene of the first match up against St. Joseph's College by the score of student body." Munson claimed Anderson "rub­requests this year," said Bob Ries, Indiana State University. Although 2-1. bed it in my face" in a post-fourth the Ohio State ticket director. the Irish put in a commendable 
The team relied on their club game interview after the Reds had Ries said Ohio State players are performance, the power of the presidet.t Dave Augstgen to break sw<:pt the Yankees in last month's. given two, three or four season reigning state champions proved the ice with some oazzling ball Irish plummet to World Series, in which Anderson books, depending on their number too great as ISU won 3-0. control and accurate shooting. said Johnny Bench of the Reds was of years on the squad. They can 
The next day Notre Dame took
This first goal came in the first 18th in rankings the greatest catcher ever. also buy two to five tickets per 
advantage of the beautiful weather 
minute of pia} as Tom Crotty sent Munson was waiting his turn to game. 
to come back and trounce KelleyAugstgen a perfect feed that The Top Twenty teams in the be interviewed when Anderson "A player, however, does ngt 
University 4-1. In the beginningallowed for the breakaway. Associated Press college football made his comments. Anderson see the tickets," said ries. "lie period Maryann Dooley scored the The offense broke down after poll, with first-place votes in paren­said it was sin for any catcher to has to designate the person to 
first goal for the Irish in the 
this play began to get sloppy. theses, records total have to play in the same ball park receive them.
season and They are mailed to tournament. Late in the first half 
Notre Dame's stir:g}' gnc.lie Brian points. Points based on 20-18-16-with Bench. that person by the university. Tnat she sustained an injury and had to 
Cullather pulled in everything that 14-12-10-9-8 etc.: As reported Monday by Si Bur­is an NCAA regulation." 
leave the game. Freshman Carola 
came his way to keep Notre Dame ick, sports editor of the Dyton Ohio Ries admitted school officials Cummings picked up where Dooley inthe game as the score ended 1-l Daily News, Anderson decided last have no control over whom the left off and rippled the nets for the 
aftL"r regulation time had expired. I. Pitsburgh 49 9-0-0 1,226 week to apologize to Munson. He players can designate to receive the three goals in the second half. The Irish did nut waste much 2. UCLA 7 8-0-1 1,093 wrote this letter under date of Nov. tickets or what kind of trade they 
the last of
time in breaking this tie as Steve 3. S. Cal 2 7-1-0 860 2: make. Meriln College was 
Notre Dame's opponents. In a
Milerer came up with the ball after 4. Michigan 2 8-1-0 816 "Dear Thurman: Meanwhile, hayes offered some hotly contested match, Marilna wild scramble in front of the St. 5. Texas Tech 1 7-0-0 772 "First of all, I hope you will reasons for Michigan's 16-14 upset scored their only goal in the secondJoseph net and booted it home for 6. Maryland 2 9-0-0 666 accept my sincere apology. I had at Purdue Saturday that cost the half and hung on to ruin the Irish's
the winning score. 7. Georgia 8-1-0 620 no intention of trying to belittle you Wolverines a Big Ten tie for the hopes of coming away with a solidThe '' B·' team completed its first 8. Ohio St. 7-1-1 541 or any other catcher. lead with the Buckeyes. 
2-1 record.

ever winning season with a respec­9. Nebraska 7-1-1 503 "What I said about comparing "I know how close we came to table 5-3-2 slate. 10. Alabama 7-2-0 270 Bench to another catcher I have getting beat over there Purdue in Letting by only 5 goals in three The "A" team was not to be 11. Missouri 6-3-0 218 said not only this year, but in other the 1970's, recalled Hayes, "parti­games was Mary Hums who proved outdone however. as they romped 6-2-0 years. cularly when you're used to be a nets for
12. Houston 209 nut to standout in the 
over winless IUPU-Fort Wayne 6-0. 13. Arkansas 5-1-1 174 "Thurman, I might be at fault for that turf. The crowd is close to the Notre Dame. 
Terry Finnegan led the Irish 14. Oklahoma 6-2-1 137 speaking so strongly on Bench, but field. Purdue had a bad game the assault with three goals while Tim 15. Florida 6-2-0 114 that is the way I feel. I sure hope I week before and Alex Agase of In the overall tournament 'the 
Nauman, Jim Moellering and Jim  16. Texas A&M  6-2-0  75  will never purposely try to belittle  Purdue is a doggone good coach." ·Irish women's field  hockey  team  
Rice  each  added  single  tallies.  17. Okla. St.  5-3-0  67  anyone.  Hayes  thought  the  Michigan  placed sixth and have a record of 5  
Notre Dame outshot Fort Wayne by  18. Notre Dame  6-2-0  31  "I only hope you will know how  shocker might be beneficial to Ohio  wins, 6 losses, and 2 ties  on the  
a  whopping total of 45-3  in  this  19. Colorado  6-3-0  22  sincere I am about this Jetter.  State  for  its  trip  Saturday  to  season;  a  significant  from  last  
no-contest game.  This rai~ed the  20. S. Carolina  6-3-0  17  "Sincerely, Sparky."  Minnesota, third in the conference  year·  








