
Jimmy Carter visits South Bend 
Airport press conference begins campaign swing 
bJ Phil Cal·kley Senior Staff Reporter 

Ot·nwcratic hopeful Jimmy Car­ter made a busv four-hour cam­paign swing thr;n1gh South Bend ye,tcrday, with stops at Notre Danw to visit with tht• football team and addrc:s~ a capacity crowd at Sll'pan Ccntt:r. 
Carter abo held a press confcr­ent·t• at the Mil'hiana Regional Airpnrt, took a hand-shaking tour through city hall and spoke with '' orkers at Bendix Corporation bdore !lying to Milwaukee to await the results of the Wiscon:,in and New Ynrk primaries held ycster­dav. 
Arriving from Indianapolis at aht~ut 2 p.m.. Carter held a half-hour nt•ws conference for members of the local and national press in the airport terminal. 
The former governor of Georgia dcult at length with questions on the subjl•ct of breaking down racial or ethnic neighborhood barriers. He said he was opposed to the usc of ft•dcral or state housing projects to end tht• "ethnic purity" of a neighborhood. 
"To artiflt·ially create within a communitv that is fairly homogcn­t•ous in ritl'ial or ccon;1mic status just the diametrically opposite kind of tamilv is bad for the community on both. sides." Carter said. 
lie added however that he did 'ec anced to overcome housing segregation in the North, that he was opposed to tlll' exclusion of a family fmm a neighborhood on the basis of race and that he was c~~entially insi~ting on "the right of pcoplt' to live where they dwosc. ·' 
When a~kl'll if he though he had ~toppL'd Sen. Hubert Humphrey's un,,ftkial bid for the Democratic nomination, Carter responded, "Humphrey'!> momentum is a fig­ment of the news media's imagina­
Carter stated tha he did not feel the choice of Humphrey as a compromise candidate by the Notre Dame Mock Political Convention a month ago was a rellection of the national situation. 
"Things have changed in the past month," he said. "I've won three o1· four primaries and have recently moved ahead of Hum­phrey in the Gallup Poll. I think I will be nominated in New York." 
On the subject of abortion, Carter ~aid the government should not encourage it and should offer alternatives such as family plann­ing. However, he emphasized that he would comply with court rulings on the matter. even though he is personally against abortion. 
Carter noted the May 4 Indiana primary could be an important one, especially if results from the Wis­consin and New York primaries are inconclusive. In this case, the April 27 Pennsylvania contest would become a major showdown be­tween himself and Sen. Henry Jackson, Carter added. 
A small crowd of onlookers greeted the Democratic hopeful at the airport, although active Carter supporters were scarce. 
Later in the afternoon, the Georgia Democrat stopped by Car­tier Field while the Notre Dame football team was holding a prac­tice scsison. "Pepper Rodgers sent me," Carter jested, referring to the coach of the Georgia Tech football team. Carter atll'nded Georgia Tech as a student. 
He was introduced to co-captains Willie Fry and Mark Mclane and asked the players to "be easy on Georgia Tech" because "we need to even up the series." The team laughed good-naturcdly at the joke. 
Coach Dan Devine introduced 
Carter as a "good young liberal," 
adding that "we all like liberals on 
this campus.'' Carter also spoke 
with Athletic Director Ed "Moose" 

bJ Bob Mader Executive News Editor 

Former Georgia Governor Jimmy Carter said he would minimize the need for abortion and that he opposes fon.·cd busing of school children to integrate schools in a speech yesterday at Stepan Center. An es:imatcd J.SOO students warmly welcomed the Democratic presidential hopeful on his second campaign swing through Indiana. 
"I think abortion is wrong." Carter said. "I don't think our government should ever do anything to encourage abortion." Carter said he believes abortion is a sign of unwanted pregnancies and he would institute a nationwide program of sex education, family planning, improved adoption procedures. and access to contraceptives to every­one who wants to usc them. He emphasized that he docs not favor a total prohibition of abortion and would abide by any court rulings concerning it. 
Carter also promised to cut defense spending, keep close tabs on the Central Intelligence Agency, pursue a more vigorous foreign policy, reorganize the Executive branch, televise sessions of Congress and push for the development of solar energy. 
On the busing issue, Carter declared that "integration suits me fine" but that he opposes mandatory busing. Mandatory busing did not work in Atlanta, Carter said, because only poor children were bused. 
He proposed a four-point alternative to forced busing which was devised by the Atlanta School Board and members of the black community. The plan provides: I) any children who want to he bused must be bused at public expense; 2) busing must contribute to integration; 3) black leaders must be represented in the school system; 4) no child can be bused against the wishes of the child and the parents. 
Carter said he would encourage business to hire young people by increasing the money supply and lowering interest rates. He also proposed WPAstyle public work jobs for young people 18 to 21 years old to alleviate the 25 percent unemployment rate in that age group. 
Carter said that unemployment among young people is a major cause of crime, citing the 45 percent unemployment rate for black youths. ''When a young person is forced out of the home and goes on the street for weeks and weeks and can't get a job, there is a powerful pressure on that young person to start shoplifting or selling drugs or becomes a prostitute or some other illegal activity." Carter stated. 
A strong intelligence agency is needed for foreign policy and defense, Carter said. Intelligence agencies, however must obey the law, Carter said, condemning activities such as assassination plots, attempts to overthrow foreign governments and domestic spying. (continued on page 6) 
Carter wins Wisconsin primary;Udall claimed victory too soon 
Jimmy Carter captured the Wis­consin Democratic presidential primary election early Wednesday, winning on ballots that were tallied after Rep. Morris K. Udall staged a premature victory rally. Sen. Henry M. Jackson won New York's contest for Democratic delegates. 
President Ford easily won the Republican primary in Wisconsin, sweeping past challenger Ronald Reagan and saying he was pleased with a 55 per cent victory that exceeded expectations. 
President Ford trounced Repub­lican challenger Ronald Reagan in Wisconsin, winning with margins that put him ahead for all 45 of the state's GOP nominating votes. 
Since Ford Jed statewide and in all nine congressional districts, he was ahead for all 45 GOP dele­gates. 

Democratic delegates were a­warded in proportion to the popular vote. Udall led for 26, Carter for 25, Wallace for 10, Jackson 6, McCormack one. 
ABC and NBC said their projec­tions showed Udall the victor. The Arizona congressman said so, too. "I've finished second and I've finished first and I like first a lot better," he said. 
Carter, who had won five out of six earlier primaries, said he had thought he might run first in Wisconsin. He also had said a Wisconsin win and a second-place showing in New York would make where delegates were elected in 
him  the  unstoppable  leader  for  
nomination.  
Partial  returns  in  ~w  York  

separate contests in each of the 39 
congressional districts. showed 
Jackson leading for 102 of the 
state's 274 Democratic nomination 
votes. 
That was not the margin the Washington senator had forecast. Nonetheless. he said the incom­plete returns were close to the figures he had anticipated. 
With 82 per cent of the precinl'!s counted, Jackson-pledged delegate candidates led for 102 national convention seats, Udall for 68, uncommitted entries for 64, Carter for 40. 
Republicans gave the lead to 114 uncommitted delegates, with three Reagan supporters leading. Only a dozen Reagan delegates ran. 



-

2 the observer Wednesday, April 7, 1976 
,..---News Briefs--....... 
Management club plans seminar 
t:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=National 
by Mary P. Egan campus in terms of women learning assert themselves. and trying to Contributing Editor techniques of developing their own 
trade-off between their personal
Wells Fargo robbed 
style of management." Such 
life and a career," Hayes explain­NEW YORK -Three armed men wearing ski masks escaped with 
Notre Dame's Women's Man­courses are problems because "the ed. $851.000 yesterday after they held up two armed Wells Fargo guards 
agement Club has planned a sem­whole University's business college Anyone interested in attendinginar, "Emerging Women in Society is male,oriented,'' Hayes contin­in the basement of The Daily News building. 
this seminar may contact its dir­
to be held tomorrow in the C.C.E. ued.
The trio handcuffed the guards and two building workers to a ectors: Conlisk. 283-8017; Hayes,from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. and will "Women have special problemsstairwell railing and made off with three bags of money. 
283-6925; or Estelle Broussard,include a noon luncheon. in professional careers and have to 283-8125; or call the C.C.E. at
Kidneys kill Hughes 
Graduate students Ginger Con­deal with discriminaion, learning to 283-6214,


lisk and Mary M. Hayes plannedHOUSTON-a 21/2-hour autopsy revealed yesterday that billionaire the seminar, which is open to therecluse Howard Hughes died Monday of kidney failure. It was also public, in conjunction with thedisclosed that agents of the IRS and Customs Service re checking the 
College of Business Administrati~n.
finger prints on the body with those in government files for positive "Our main objective is to provide identification. Speculation continues regarding distribution of 
information to women regardingHughes' fortune, although it is widely believed it will go to medical 
the opportunities and challengesresearch. 
that they might face upon entering a professional environment," Con­
.,_._On Campus Toda!J'--a 
Iisk explained. There is a $3 fee for the seminar.
12:25 pm mass, lenten mass, Iafortune ballroom Those attending a part of the seminar, but not the luncheon,12:25 pm seminar, "biological characterization of the 'slow' need not pay this fee.
viruses of sheep" by dr. donald h. harter, 
department of neurology, northwestern medical 
At this seminar, a group of professional women in the execu­school, room 278 galvin tive levels of business and educa­tion will present information and1 pm meeting, ladies of notre dame music interest group, guidelines regarding women's rolelibrary lounge 
in today's society, Dolores C. Cogan. director of1 30 pm lecture, "the president and bureaucracy: who public relations for Miles Labora­
represents us?" by dr. peri arnold, notre dame tories will speak on the ''Outlookforever learning institute 107 south greenlawn 
for Women". Mary Claire McCabe director of student development at3:25 pm lecture, oil shale by dr. baha y zarah room 269, Notre Dame. will discuss "Marri­chem eng bldg age and Career: Need One Choose Between the Two?"
3:30pm lecture, "laser doppler anemometry" by dr. william 
Joan Jasionis. corporate respon­
c. cliff room 303, engineering bldg 
sibility for Cummins Engine Co .. will explain "Assertiveness--Being4:30pm colloquium, "nuclear and particle physics with 
Who You Are". And IBM's Largeanti··protonic and kaonic atoms" by prof. peter 
Systems Product Marketing Man­barnes, room 118, nieuwland science hall 
ager. Ursula 0. Farrell, will discuss "Changing Perspective on a Career .. 6:30pm meeting, sailing club, 204 engineering bldg. 
Hayes said the seminar was planned because "there's nothing 7:30pm panel discussion, "women in business" stapleton 
being offered at the Notre Dame lounge, lemans hall 
Bus trip planned
7:30pm meeting, faculty senate meeting, room 202 cce 
for Sox game

7:30pm speech, "a report to his constituents" by bob 
The Student Union Bus Trip onducomb, state legislator, library auditorium 
Friday April 9th to the Chicago White Sox opening day game will
8 pm public slide lecture, "the portugese revolution" by 
depart from the circle at 11:00 a.m.
prof. milton fisk area studies reading room, library There are still openings available and reservations can be made at 
8 pm philosophy perspectives, "rationality: musement 
the Student Union Ticket Office. 
and criss-crossing" by prof. richard bernstein, 
The price of the package (bus and 
galvin auditorium 
ticker) is $9.50. 

8 pm play, "felling good" by national theater company, history of black music and black musicians, 
(%The Observer1
o'laughlin auditorium, tickets: $1 
Night Editor: Marti Hogan8 pm & film, "mickey one" engineering auditorium, tickets: Asst. Night Editor Debbie 10 pm $1 Dahrling 
layout Staff Leigh Tunakan, 8 15 pm concert, notre dame chorale concert, washington Kevin Walsh hall Day Editor: Marianne Schulte Copy Reader Cathy Nolan, 
10 pm lenten prayer service, sacred heart church Terry Keeney Editorials: Jim Commyn Features: Tim O'Reilly Sports: Fred Herbst
Lowenstein to discuss conspiracies 
Typists Mel Celeste, Neil Viii, 
Hank van Dyke, Howard Halle
involving Kennedy assassinations 
lNight Controller Howard Hall' 
Ir----------------,To All SMC Chicks: I
Former New York Congressman Allard K. Lowenstein will speak tonight on alleged conspiracies surrounding the assassinations of John and Robert Kennedy. 
Lowenstein. a close personal friend of Robert Kennedy and leader of the "Dump Johnson" movement in 1968, has recently been involved in efforts to re-open the investigation of the Robert Kennedy assassination. He is cur­rently working with Vincent Bugli­osi. prosecutor in the Charles 
RESEARCH 
FREE CATALOG! 
Write or call for your copy of our latest catalog of over 5,000 re­search studies. These studies are designed to HELP YOU IN THE PREPARATION of: 
• Research Papers 

• 
Essays • Case Studies 

• 
Speeches • Book Reviews WE ALSO DO CUSTOM WRITING 


MINUTE RESEARCH 
1360 N. Sandburg, ll1602 
Chicago, Illinois 60610 
312-337-2704 
-·. 
Manson  case  and  author  of  the  
best-seller  Helter-Skelter,  in  his  
race  for  district  attorney  in  Los  

Angeles. Bugliosi is campaigning to re-open the Kennedy assassina­tion case. 
Lowenstein's speech is entitled "The Kennedy Assassinations and the Abuse of Power in America''. He will speak at 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
The Observer is published fv\onday through Friday <r1d v.€ekly during the sumner session, excep1 during the exams 1r1d vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame 1r1d St. Miry's College. Subs<Tiptions m3y be purdlased for $18 ($10 per semester) fro'TI The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, lndicrla 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

50th ANNIVERSARY SEASON!!! 
The fabulous ~~~
('\&)• 

TOMORROW NOTRE~ NIGHT DAME . 
7:30 P.M. A. C. C. 
Tickets Ticket Prices: 
Bleachers----------$3.00 

On SaIe Loww Ar•a Daily At the (End Court) --------$4.50 Loww Ar•a
ACC, 9-5 (SidtCourt) ______ • $5.50 
N.D. & S.M.C. 
~TUQ~NTS, FACULTY, AND STAFF $1.00 OFF ALL TICKETS 
LENTEN PRAYER 
SERVICE 
WED. APRIL 7 
IOp.m. 
SACRED HEART 

confessions followingsponsored bv Campus 
r-WHYPAY50:0NCAMPUS?l interested in working on the SMC I f ALL CIGARETTES 38 ¢ PACK+ TAX t Yearbook, The blue mantle, lots of help I , is needed. and no experience is I
CARTONS

t 85 mm $3.49 plus tax ' b k d I
t CARTONS 100 mm $359 plus tax t necessary-just e willing to wor an I t wE ALSO CARRY THE FOLLOWING t HAVE FUN!!! The meeting will be held I t HARD TO FIND SMOKES t in room 7, Regina Basement. 1 
t Gauloises Caporal $.60 pack t I La Corona Whiffs $1.15 pack A A . ?t Balkan Sobraine $.95epck ' ny questions.
l MA;;;;.N P~CY l call Suzy 5269 Cindy 4679 I
'l 1 
t 426 N. MICHIGAN I (Next to McDonald's) 234 -3184 J J
L 

I HERE'S A CHANCE I
I TO GET INVOLVED I 
I I
1 Tonight, Wednesday April 7, at 6:30 1 there will be a short meeting for anyoneI 
. 

. • '~ ;.~·~ ,"; •-.. ·_'·/~ ~-~~·"··'"~".:·':t~·4/1.",/'., ..·..r,. 'tl,·1.:,.r,..•., .'~-i./.,..<~;,.";_. •.f •• ",';•,..' ...." ..lt~'l'~lt~~.,.lt ..... r·,,'~· .":••" ""'y, • t .. , , c,.','c ~ ~ ~·;. ~·(.·, '·
•
• • • "'. 4\ "'I,\ .......... . 

-------~~---~--­
Wednesday, April 7, 1976 the observer 
3

Fall approval awaited 
Casey elected representative to SLC 
By Barb Breitenstein Senior Staff Reporter 

Mike Casey, new Student Body vice-president (SBVP), will be the Student Government representa­tive to the Student Life Council (SLC) next year, if approved at the first SLC meeting in the fall. 
Casey will be the Student Body president (SBP) Mike Gassman's, "permanently designated repre­sentative," a position made pos­sible by a change in SLC by-laws passed by the Council yesterday. Previously, the Student Govern­ment representative post was filled hy the SBP. 
"We wanted to get the vice-pres­ident more involved next year," Casey explained. "I will be the Student Government representa­tive still. There's no difference there." 
"The idea we had," Gassman said. "was that this year the Student Government was centered in the president, and the vice-pres­ident was left out. By putting the vice-president on the SLC, there will be a better division of time and he will be able to spend more time on the SLC than the SBP might," he explained. 
Gassman will retain speaking privileges on the floor and will attend the SLC meetings. "It could be better for both our views to have both of us there," Casey said. 
"The wording of the change in the by-law provides for either the SBP or the SBVP to serve as the representative," Ed Byrne, SLC chairman and former SBP, stated. "If there's any conflict in future years. they can work that out between themselves.'' 
The possibility of making such a change was discussed first by Gassman and Casey. according to Byrne, and was then brought to Byrne to present to the Council. 
-"It was mostly a matter of 
·• ... 
personalities," Casey said. "I moved up through the Hall Presi­dents' Council (HPC) and we felt the SLC was more centered toward the work I have been doing. Gassman, as Academic Council representative, is more centered toward administrative goals,'' he explained. 
"This will be a better division of tasks," Gassman said. "They have the office of vice-president and then let it fall away. I don't want to do that," he concluded. 
The Council also received a report from John Lynch, off­campus representative, stating a definition of the SLC's origin. 
"The SLC originated from the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees," Lynch explained, to "consider matters of student affairs," with all decisions "sub­ject to the president" of the University. 
"It shows that the council has a direct line to the president," Lynch 

~~\~~~~c·,;~)1i4~ /((!) 1-~1\Jc. J,~
1
--·

_AI·)\~'. . .~  J'  1\.  
-.:If'·::.'  .  
~ii-~ ~:;:.:.~. ;. ~­ ~ .~·:.­'  
The Sl.  Mary's Phon-a-thon,  scheduled  for  the  

month of April, got underway last night in the 
~J~~~~--·r···1
. ·n-,_
~ 
--' 
leMans rectangle. (Photo by Chris Smith) 

stated. "We don't have to go through all the others. Our decis­
ions  could  go  directly  to  the  
president's desk."  
"This  just  says  that  if  the  

vice-president for Student Affairs wouldn't listen or cooperate," Sr. Jean Lenz, Theology professor, ex plained, "we could take it up the line. Practically, it gets worked out in another way, but, legally, we could by-pass the Student Affairs Office." 
In other action, Byrne also reported that the HPC has begun selection of a sophomore represen­tative, who will be one of two ' sophomores to serve two-year terms on the Council. New repre­sentatives will be chosen alternate­ly from the north and south quads every other year. 
Byrne also delegated responsibi­lity of committee reports, whict; will be presented at the meeting next week. 


,........._......._,: 78 : 
Man in the City: 

Confronting the American Dream WARREN BEATTY IN 
HMICKEY ONE''' 
DIRECTED BY 
ARTHUR PENN (BONNIE ~ CLYDE} & Op~NGINEERING AUDITORIUM
8 1 
Fine German Food and Draft Beer Our Speciality 
Hons Haus 
2803 South Michrgan Street Phone 291 -557.:&' 
Germ,;m FoQa Our SptXialty 

Created w1ih Old Wonci Atmosphere. Specializing in German and A.merican Foods 
• So~o~th Bend's Finest &nquet Rooms 
The Alpine & Bavarian Rooms Open 10:30 a.m. to 10:.30 P.m.-Closed Sundays and >-iolldays 
Tully, Flynn win class elections 
Ann Bernard Sophomore Class election, Mike urer, won 25.8 percent of the vote, 
Staff Reporter Clancy and Reed King. differed by carrying 5 halls and tying in 3 halls. 
only J votes in the tina I tally. The runoff election between 
The St•nior Class presidential Clancy's ticket, consisting of Clan­Clancy and Reed will be held on 
til'kl'l headed hv Hob Tullv was cy; .John Hyan, vice-president; Thursday at the same time and at 
ckl'll'd yt·sterday. along w(th the Kristiu Quann. secretary; and Rav polling places used yesterday. 
.Junior Class til·ket of Pat Flynn. Rai. treasurer, garnered 26 percent According to Grace,· the voter 
The tickch for Sophomore Class of tht· vote. carrying 4 halls and turnout is the highest in recent 
otfil·l·rs headed hy Mike Clancy and tying in one. years. The percentage of voters in 
l{ced King received the most votes The King ticket: King. Terry the Junior Class election (70.9) is 
in a close contest and will face each Garth. vice-president; Mike Mullen the highest percentage in at least 
other in a runoff election Thursday. secretary; and Dane Taylor, treas-the last four years. 
Despite last-minute opposition to 
stop hi~ unopposed candidacy, 
Panel discussion planned
Tully and his ticket of Darlene Palma, vice-president; Ken Gir­ouard, secretary; and John Dona­
to assist business students 
hue, treasurer gained 64 percent of By Kathy Selvazzi discussion will be intensive with .a
the vote in what Senior Class Staff Reporter breakdown into groups to examinePresident Augie Grace termed "a special case studies. Among thesevery successful election." The Career Development Center studies will be personal adjustmentGrace said, "In the senior class of St. Mary's is sponsoring a panel to the business world. managing870 people voted and I doubt if half discussion for students interested career and family and how toof them would have if it didn't in working in business on Wed., 
succeed without being the cut­become controversial." Tully took Apr. 7. 

throat executive. Both St. Mary'sI 6 or the 21 polls (20 halls and Two area businesswomen will and Notre Dame students areoff-campus). speak about planning for and welcome.

In the Junior Class election, the getting job interviews, and on what ticket of Pat Flynn, president; obstacles to expect and how to According to O'Neil, the purpose Mary Lou Mulvihill, vice-president overcome them in the world of of the discussion is to educate Sue Bailey. secretary; and Tex business. women about what to expect in the Kefller won with 537 votes, 52.3 Lois Kress, Director of Personnel business world. She stressed that 
BLACKHAWK 
LINE OF KITES 

& General Store 113 West Monroe St. South Bend 
'• 



.'lfll: .. • 
.,..... 

,;t. 

percent of the 1026 votes east. at Coopers and Lybrand accounting 
this is an opportunity for students l..iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii....aiii••liiiiiiiiiiiliiiilll
Contacted after the votes were firm and Mary Spraull of Miles to meet professionals in their counted, Flynn thanked his sup-Laboratories in Elkhart will lead fields. 
porters and noted. "We will bene-the discussion session. Spraull is a fit very much from the work which St. Mary's graduate. the other ticket has done." Flynn Karen O'Neil, director of the took II of the 21 polls, and tied Career Development Center, des­with Klein in 3 halls, Alumni, cribcd the event as "really dynamic , Fisher and Flanner. and of extreme value to students." 
The two top vote-getters in the The content and tone of the ~..............................................................................................~ 0
~ , 0 0 D nh'he "-=,, ll"q 'r. ,:l'·:t:.~
,;: • \ ling h • 11 '"-· :ill fa e~ ~ 
~ IW~ . 
u nal n. ="'.., "~ 1::i I 
0 ,_ ,c~: ~ s1cke ~0.:;;, ~o .,. ~.,:s., ~ 
! The Boar's 'Head now has available opportunities for fulltlme ~ ,;: summer help, reduced to parttlme this fall to accomodate students. 1 ~ Applications will be accepted between 2-4, Mon-Frl., for the :ill ~ following positions: Walters, Waitresses, Bartenders, Cashiers, ~ jltiJI Kitchen Help, & Hostesses. [The Boar's Head is an Equal ~ 
~ Opportunity Employer I . . . . . . . . ~. . ·..J 
Business Majors: Management positions available 
The U. S. Navy has a limited number of mnnAgement positions available to qualified businE·ss majors. The Navy Supply Corps is responsihle for all staff phases of naval logistics. As a Navy Supply Corps officer, you'll develop and practice modern management techniques while serving in a challenging and exciting environment. If you want a position with 
authority,  responsibility and  accountability,  the  Navy's  
Supply Corps  has  it all.  To  apply,  contact:  
Lt. Bill Hughes  (312) 657-2169/2170  Call Collect  

Wh~t yo~ do now determines ~hether yo~'l_l f~!~~~-~~-w~ether v,ou'~l.lead. 
_..._.,,..,..,,..,,._,,,,,,,,._,,,....,,.._. . ._.!!l!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!l!!!~!!l!l!!!!!!!!!!l!l!i!i!ilill!ll!i!l!!t!!!l!l!.!!!l!!!!!!!!!!l!•l!!l!!ll!lil \~:~~~~~~Q~t_. ·· 

r 
r 
*lJ~d.Q!?.~~rver 
Hurrah, St. Mary's
Founded November 3. 1966 

The Observer 1s published by students of the Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame and EDITORIAl BOARD St Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the poliCieS of either Thomas O'Neil Editor-m-Chief m~tltUtiOn The news is reported as accurately and objeCtively as rsssl~e Dan Sanchez Managing EditOr 
f d1tonals represent the op1n1on oT a majority ot the f:ditonal oar c 8 Executive Editor 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiikathy corrigan
Commentanes are the VIewS of individual editors. Opmions, cartoons and vrf~g b~ngs Executive Edttor 
regular columns express the views of their authors Column space IS P!t H~nit'i~ Ed1tonal Editor a\adable to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to Bob Mader Executive News Editor 
prornott> the frt>e expression of vary1ng oprntons on campus ~''"' 2H l-llbb 1 Bus1ness 21\3-7471 EcHonals 21B-1 711 Tom Modgl1n AdVPrt 1srng Manager Tom Wht>lan 
Mauret>n Flvnn Campus Editor Marti Hogan St Mary's Ed1tor Don Re1mer Copy Editor Tml O'Reiley Features Ed1tor rrt>d Herbst Sports Editor Mary Lgdn Contributmg Editor 
Wednesday, April 7, 1976 

seriously folks·~~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~~!!!!!! 
Why Is Henry Angry? 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiii.__iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii art buc h wa I d 
WASHINGTON--A great deal has been written about Henry Kissin­ger's temper. Every day you pick up the paper and discover the secretary of state is angry about something. 
Last week I was reading the front page at breakfast and my wife asked me if there was any news of interest. 
"Henry Kissinger is angry at the people on his staff for allowing a magazine writer access to transc­ripts of his talks with Arab and Israeli leaders." 
"That's strange. I heard on television he was angry that Ronald Reagan was attacking him for his det.ent~, policies with the Soviet Umon. 
"Maybe he's angry at both things." 
My son said, "I heard on the radio he was angry at Nixon because Nixon said in a sworn statement that Henry was respon­sible for selecting the names of people who had to be tapped. Kissinger said in his sworn state­ment that Nixon had given him the names." 
My daughter said, "Last night on the news it said that Henry was angry because the Soviets had supported the Cubans in Angola: He said if they continued to do thts he'd get really angry and they would have to answer for it." 
My wife interjected, "I heard at the hairdresser that Henry was angry because his car was parked at the wrong place when he left the someone going through his gar­White House the other day." bage the other morning. He yelled 
My son said, "I have this friend at this Secret Servicemen for a at school and he said Henry was half-hour.'' angry because he doesn't have the 
My daughter said, Newsweek same access to the President he magazine said Henry is so angry he had when he was national security may resign before the election."
advisor." 
My son said, Time magazineMy daughter said, "My best said he's so angry he's determinedfriend works for The Washington to stay to show that they can't getPost and she said Henry was angry to him."
at an editorial they carried saying he had a short temper." ''William Satire said Henry is 
I said, "I don't think we should responsible for most of the leaks be too disturbed about Kissinger's that he gets angry at when they anger. After all, he's only secreta­appear in the newspaper," my wife ry of state. Now is he was secretary said. of defense we'd have something to "It says here," I said, reading 
worry about.'' from my paper, "the angrier Henry is the more he smiles for the "Joseph Kraft said Henry is photographers. When he isn't angry at the secretary of defense smiling that means he isn't angry.'because he has more influence with 
My wife seemed sympathetic tothe President,'' my wife said. 
Kissinger. "I think any man in"Evans and Novak said the Henry's position has a right to be reason he is angry is he can't get angry. Nothing seems to go rightRumsfeld fired like he did Schlesin­for him and he gets blamed forger," I said. 
everything.''
My son said, · Rolling Stone had 
an article that Henry is really angry "Ah," I said. "The reason he at Congress because every time gets blamed for everything is that they ask him up on the Hill to he takes credit for everything, and testify they make him take an oath then when it turns out wrong he that he won't lie to them. Henry gets angry." thinks Congress should trust him 
My daughter said, "I think I more." 
know why Henry gets angry so My wife said, "I was in a dress much.'' 
shop in Georgetown and the sales­"Why?" I asked. 
girl said that Nancy Kissinger had just been in and that Nancy told her "No one ever has the guts to say Henry was angry because he found to him, 'Have a nice day."' 

(P.O. Box Q) 
Thank you 

Dear Editor: Yesterday was my last day of collecting in front of the dining hall at St. Mary's. Never, in all of the days· since beginning in Septem­ber, have the two hours at l.unch and the hour and a half at dmner gone by so fast. While trying to hold back the tears, I was hoping it would never end. All of you have meant that much to me. I would like to mention all of your names but the list seems endless. The list consists of the people in Campus Ministry and the Adminis­tration who first accepted me and trusted me to begin the collections. It includes the people in Security and in the Business Office who helped me hold and distribute the money; and, of course, all the students, staff, teachers, and Sis­ters I saw each day at the dining hall. Not one person was ever unkind. Thus far, your unselfish giving has resulted in over $3300 reaching agencies that help the poorest of the poor to help themselves. It is all of you who need to be thanked again and again for making this year successful. The kindness and respect that I hoped to have shown you is only a reflection of what you have shown me. 
Many times I felt in an awkward position whe11 confronted with the statement that my presence made people aware of the tremendous some people feel guilty. I would inequality and suffering that exists like to apologize to those people. It in this world, often due to our was not my intention to make ignorance and selfishness, and to anyone feel guilty. When trying to offer a way for students to freely conceptualize the tremendous pov­respond. erty that exists for two-thirds of the Giving out of a sense of guilt is world's people, I often felt the need not a free response. Love is free. to say and to do more. I remained We have a choice. We can share passive in the hope of showing you with others the things of this world the same love and respect that and we can give to those in need needs to be shown to the suffering without ever expecting anything poor. back in return. This, I believe, is 
Collecting was my attempt to live the essence of love. This is what out the belief that all of us are you have done. Feelings of guilt worthy of existing because of what cannot sustain us. Love can and we are and not because of what we will. You have helped to sustain do; that we are all equally Children me. Need I say more? of God. I only hoped to make Greg Grameispacher, '75 ND 


/'lJ. NO fMKJACTS OF f057/t!TY YET, BUT Ff(()M 
71113 f.()()l:5 OF THI~ 7Host 0/!IANS/J,Rff O?ANK/NeUP FOte SOM& 56RI()(JS 
AlMiNTl/1</SM/ 
\ 

The viability of student government at ~t. Mary's was brought into serious question last week. As only !So/o of the student body voted· in the recent election, and only 8.8"7o voted in support of the one ticket nominated, the questions seem to be: Is student government a representative voice of the SMC student body, and if not, is it worth continuing? 
In four year's working for and with student government in various capacities. and two years' service on Student Assembly. I have seen manv changes, and experienced much frustration. The attitude of stud~nt government in my tirst two years here was that we were in a temporary. tenuous situation brought about by the 'un-merger'. and by the large numbers of upperclassmen who transferred as result of the un-merger. They were working with a group of almost entirely new administrators. but seemed to be gradually forming a new image and strength for St. Mary's. and had begun a more active cooperation with Notre Dame student government. 
Unfortunately, Student Government has taken a withdrawn and almost defeated attitude in the past two years. They have made little effort to gain administrative or student support. or to inspire much interest or enthusiasm in their role. Student government has 'worked hard' this year, but few students know who is working, in what capacity. or what they are working on. Many projects have been talked about but not completed: a revision and publication of our Constitution, the purchase of a student government car, revision of teacher evaluation forms. Student government has served primarily as a dispenser of funds, and the only activity that all of student government cooperates on is the disposal of surplus funds at the annual student government party. 
SMC student government has shown a marked desire to want to be ignored by the Notre Dame communit~·. Discussions of combined student telephone directories and SMC inclusion in the Scholastic Course Evaluation booklet have been repeatedly received with the attitude of 'why bother'?'. The Observer. the only existing effective communication between student government and the students. is consistently put off when requesting the simplest information, such as the time of Student Assembly meetings so that they might send a reporter. 
The administration, for their part. has done little to give student government confidence in their efticacy. During the 1973-74 school year. Student Assembly worked compiling statistics and taking polls to convince our Board of Regents that parietal hours be extended to midnight on weekend nights, and were repeatedly overruled. With no public announcement or acknowledgement of a decision, this policy was passed over the summer and appeared in the 1974· 75 student handbook. More recently. Congressman Bradcmas was chosen as commencement speaker without consultation of the senior class. A student government cannot have any credibility with their constituency if their recommendations arc consistently overruled. 
One of the difficulties is that our administration has had so much recent turnover. My sophomore year. I served on a committee with Dr. Hcnr.v. college president: Kem Mullaney. Dean of Students: Sr. Ba~il Anthonv. V.P. of Fiscal Affairs; Crawford Caswell. Director of Food-Services; and Fr. Roger Cormier. College Chaplain. The next year, each of these administrators had gone. ll'aving me alone on the committee. When administrative turnover is faster than student turnover. this 'musical chairs' puts an especial burden on students to maintain the continuity of their school. Dr. Duggan and the current administration arc very eager to work with students to overcome apathy. and this eagerness must be taken advantage of in invitations and welcomes by the student body. 
The ofticcrs elected last Wednesday are eminantly experienced and qualitied. but they must proudly assert their position as student leaders and liason with the administration. The problem runs more deeply than the need for a student government newsletter; St. Marv's has experienced a very sad loss of identity. People cannot pinp-oint their discontent. but enthusiasm and loyalty to St. Mary's has seemed to seep away in my four years. St. Mary's desperately needs something to rally around, to stand for. Our athletic teams are a good start. but we cannot even think of a name for them. We need an opportunity to sing our school song (two have been written for St. Mary's, and only one has ever been publicly performed.) But more than any of these. we need strong leadership to pull each uninterested factfon of St. Mary's into a strong community. This will be a long. gradual process, but it is a goal to work for. 
It is up to the student body to show their interest in the next set of elections. Within the next few weeks, elections will be held for 16 Assembly representatives, presidents and vice-presidents of each of four halls. and class officers from three classes. It is important that these elections are well publicized, and that students take this opportunity to place a vote of confidence in student government. Perhaps this might be the beginning of a search for an identity for St. Mary's, and the start of a growth of badly needed pride. 
~ ..tWAS, IF IAIUXJN{Pf/T A S7rJP 70 TliE EXPANSIONISM OF 7HGSE P£0Pt&, 7H&Y'll 
O~N THE tUHJt£Pt.ANET! 
I MEAN, MY L.OI<IJ, JUST I.()()K a/HAT 7HEY [)ff) 
INM!AMI! \ 

Wednesday, April 7, 1976 the observer 
a campaign comes to town 
tim o'reiley 
photos by chris smith 

Not too long ago, the political world started. knew him as "Jimmy Who~" ·Hunning for 2:17 p.m.: Carter enters through east l're~ident as a native from George Wallace entrance of airport. then meets with local l'ountry, most analysis! figured he would officials for several minutes in the United suffer the same fate from the Alabaman as Airlines ticket office. Afterwards, he his Georgia ancestors did at the hands of wades through the onlookers to the press <Jenera! Sherman. The Democrats would conference. have many candidates to choose from in 2:23p.m.: Press conference begins with 1976, hut .iimmy Carter wouldn't be one of a Right-to-Life supporter asking several them. questions about Carter's abortion views. 
A~ he brought his campaign to town After these and a couple of questions from yesterday, he dearly fooled them all. The local reporters, the national media goes list of candidates has thinned considerably; into action. 
Wallace has not won yet, even in the For the next twenty-five minutes, Carter South. Meanwhile, the former Georgia and the press engage in a verbal duel. The governor possesses the big organization, reporters try to pin down a position by gets 1he big crowds. and wears the Carter concerning his attitudes about the "front-runner" label. Now others speak of forced integration of neighborhoods. him a~ ".Jimmy, who's going to ~.op him." Carter thinks his position is very clear, and 
Shaking hands and spreading his mes­becomes increasingly irritated by the sage where,er he could for the past IS reporters' pointed questioning. Beads of months, Carter·~ schedule has not slowed sweat cover his brow. One press aid down since his surge in opularity. signals the last question, but is ignored. Yesterday's schedule, which he followed The housing issue has taken on a pret'iscly: read: S a.m.: wake up (he momentum of its own. ~tarted the day in Indianapolis); 6 a.m., Finally, an Observer reporter asks about shake hands at factory; 6:45a.m.: do a TV Carter's reactions to the results of the ND interview; 7:30a.m.: eat breakfast; 8:30 Mock Convention. Carter shows his a.m.: meet with the publisher of a local famous smile for the first time in a while, paper; 9 a.m.: conduct a half-hour news and the press conference soon ends. conference; 9:50 a.m.: shake hands and 2:56p.m.: The motorcade heads toward ino;pect the, lantoflnternational Harvester; the Bendix Corporation, where Carter will II a.m.: hold reception at the Hilton make a quick hand-shaking tour. Hotel; II :SO a.m.: shake hands at Bell On the press bus, the photographers sit Telephone; 12:20 p.m.: have a private in front and relax. while the reporters lunch; I :30 p.m.: take-off for South Bend. listen to tapes of the press conference to Now the day was half over. obtain exact quotes. Some grumble about 
Plans allowed only a four-hour visit to the local yokel who ruined their eft'ort to South Bend. vet it ~·as scheduled several elicit Carter's position on a major issue, weeks in ad~ancc. The actual planning while others assess the candidates's per­began last Wednesday with the Carter formance. advance people contacting student repre­At Bendix, one pool reporter and the sentatives. Fr•'m there. press releases had local media arc allowed to stand outside to he written. press credentials had to be the exit g::tc, while Carter is inside. 


tingle with excitement after meeting him. They say that such face-to-face contact with a candidate makes him seem more real and human and will favorably influ­ence their vote. 
The general excitement of the workers brings a Time reporter to recall the earlier days of the campaign when Carter made campaign trips in single-engined planes. At times in New Hampshire, they would land on a totally deserted runway, and then 

have to call a taxi to get into town. Now, Carter charters a United Airlines 727, and is followed by a contingent of 38 Secret Service men and a local army bomb squad wherever he goes. 
Because Fr. Hesburgh is out of town, the advance people decided to visit the football practice, somewhere around the lOth floor. After shaking every hand he could find and kissing one baby, Carter is off to the practice field. 
4:36p.m.: The Carter entourage arrives at the practice. Coach Dan Devine walks away from calesthcnics to greet the politician. while many players are heard to ask, "What the (expletive deleted) is going on here?" As the whole troop of security and press people walks through practice, the players continue around them as best they can. With the exercises finished. the players gather around Carter and Devine for a short talk and more hand-shaking. 
Some samples of the dialogue: Devine, "We think you (Carter) are a fine young liberal. This campus has always been receptive to liberals."; 
Carter: "I really came here today to ask you to take it easy on Georgia Tech next fall. As you may know, I'm playing for the biggest prize of them all, the Presidency. So far, I've played thirteen games, winning 10 and coming in second three times, a pretty good record." 
Players: "Nice to meet you, sir." 
4:50 p.m.: Carter arrives at a packed, stifling hot Stepan Center. Before enter­ing, he cannot resist shaking hands with 
the soccer and lacrosse teams, who arc 
scrimmaging on the fields. 
Following short introductions, Carter launched into his standard 10-15 minute speech, and then availed himself to questions from the audience. While local reporter!> paid close attention to his remarks, the national media relaxed for the most part. One NBC cameraman even fell asleep. The entire performance much resembled those in many other parts of the country. 
The crowd thinned considerably as the speaking went on. and as students grew hungrier. After promising shortanswcr~to the final questions (replies which lasted up to five minutes). Carter lept off the stage to press some more flesh and exchange a few words with students. With Secret Service Agents again leading the way. he headed for the back door of Stepan, for one final round of hand-shaking. 

6:03p.m.: The motorcade heads toward the airport, to catch the flight that will take Carter to Milwaukee. The press is rather tired by now, with the prospect of a long night ahead of them. For the most part they consider this an uneventful day, and hope for better in the future. They also continue to berate Carter for his perfor­mance at the press conference, because they feel he becomes to defensive when they closely question his positions, and be cause of his loose usage of words. 
6:23p.m.: The entire entourage takes off for Wisconsin, still exactly on schedule. 

A great amount of care and planning went into these four hours, almost too much it would seem. But all the works and modern techmques and equipment that were employed, work toward the same goal: presenting the best possible appear­ance of the candidate when he personally meets the voters. No matter how much political appearances change, this sub­stance remains constant. 

assigned, the use of Stepan Center had to be arranged, University officials had to be contacted. 
The Secret Setvice arrived on Saturday, drawing up seating arrangements and checking all security contingencies. 
Through which door should Carter enter? Would he be too tired to shake hands before or after the speech? Where should the press sit? How many people should sit on the podium? 
As a final detail. starting time had been advertised as 4:30p.m. earlier in the week. On Saturday, it turned out Carter would not arrive for the speech until 5 p.m. So rather than lose students who wanted to go tll dinner. it was decided the time would remain the same, and Carter would just be "late". 
With all the details arranged, their execution started before Carter left Indi­anapolis. A podium and curtain backdrop were hastily set up for the press confer­ence. which would be held in the baggage­claim area of the airport shortly after landing. Secret Service agents searched lockers, trash cans and bathrooms. The eight-car motorcade (plus press bus) wheeled into position. The small crowd that gathered was roped off. while last­minute credential problems were handled. As the press got off the plane, and into position for the press conference, the candidate disembarked, and his visit Meanwhile, the reporters in the bus continue preparing their stories, while the reporters outside speculate on the cam­paign. The photographers move into position over the objections of the security people, who eventually win. 
His half-hour visit to the factory con­cluded, Carter finds a final few hands ro shake at the gate, then turns toward City Hall. 
3:41p.m.: The motorcade arrives at City Hall, where a small crowd has gathered to greet the candidate. After a quick hand-shaking session, a young man wear­ing a Carter button tries to follow him inside, but is quickly squired away by Secret Service agents. The governor moves through more hand-shakers, then rides the elevator to the 14th floor for a short, closed-door meeting with Mayor Peter Nemeth. 
A few minutes later, the local press is invited in for a picture taking and question session. Next Carter holds a quick, formal meeting with the city council, where the discussion topics range from football to fund-raising to revenue-sharing. 
Moving along on schedule, Carter does some hand-shaking with city employees, stopping at most of the 14 floors as he descends the whole way by the stairs. Most of the photographers have jumped on the elevator by the 11th floor. 
Many workers, particularly the women, 


.. 


6 the observer Wednesday, April 7, 1976 tNEW-LoCAiidN-t 
• fGRAND OPENING t
Carter proposes more med1a coverage 1 MILANo's 1 
(continued from page 1) 
"If the CIA should ever make a mistake, which it is likely to do, I, as president, would call a press conference and I would tell the American people what happened, who is at fault, what punishment I recommend and the corective ac­
tion  to  be  taken  to  prevent  a  
reoccura nce  of that mistake,"  he  
said.  

Carter said he favored detente but not as it now exists. He said he inteprets detente to mean a lessen­ing of tension between the United States and the Soviet Union, cul­tural exchange. inellectual ex­change and tourism. 
"I think when we've dealt with or negotiated ·with the Soviet Union in recent years under Mr. Kissing­er we have lost," Carter declared. "I think Mr. Kissinger does not trust adequately in the judgement of the American people. I think he has exploited us in the process of evolving and consummating for­eign policy. He has equated his personal popularity with the highly publicized detente's success." 
Carter proposed a "sunshine law" for Washington to allow freer media coverage of events in the executive and legislative branches. 
"I would also make available for joint sessions of Congress, televis­ed sessions," he said. "The leading cabinet members who work under me such as State, such as Defense, Agriculture and others would be cross-examined by Con­gress so you can watch and see what is the answer of the Secretary of State to very sensitive and very important foreign policy ques­tions." 
The former governor called the Pentagon the most wasteful bur-
Carter travels to NO and Bendix 
(continued from page I) Krause and shook hands with members of the soccer and lacrosse teams before speaking to an enthu­siastic crowd of almost 4,000 students in Stepan Center. 
Before traveling to Notre Dame, the Georgia governor made a 30-minute tour of the Bendix Corporation facilities in South Bend. He also took a walking tour of City Hall, beginning on the fourteenth tloor and working his way down to the third floor shaking hand<> with city employees on the \\'a\. 
Carter said he had received no committmcnt for support from Democratic South Bend Mayor Peter Nemeth. although Nemeth commented that he was "impress­ed with Carter." A short discus­sion with City Council members on revenue sharing. vocational-tech­nical schools and Notre Dame­Georgia Tech football preceeded Carter's tour. 
The morning was spent in Indianapolis, where Carter also had a busy schedule of meetings with political leaders, tours of factories, television interviews and another press conference. 
The Carter campaign will travel to Pennsylvania today and move on to Missouri tomorrow. Carter remarked that he conducts cam­paigns in about six states simul­taneously. 
HAPPINESS IS A JOB 
Our high quality re­sume can help you find that job. Send for our free resume form­-it might make you happy. 
Print, etc., P.O. Box 606 Bennington, Vt., 05201 
Please send me your reaume form 
Name ............................ 
ActdrHa 
0 •••••••••••••••••••••• ' •• ' 

City/State/Zip .. , •." .. , ...... <:· ,., •• . 
eaucracy in Washington and said private sector. said. t the military is top-heavy with "Our people are hungry for a "I hope that in the future we can A admirals and general officers. He decent government, a truthful gov-have a government that exempli-' said he would save $6 million by ernment, and open government, a ties in the finest possible way and t cutting back overseas military in-fair government, a sensitive gov-as accurately as possible the people stallations and eliminating duplica-ernment that cares for the aspira-of our great country," he conclud-f 
t..e···e···n··········e•••••••++++++4f 
SHOP TOWN & COUNTRY I a~~~~~bi::'to I 
This week t
t Fri./Sat./Sun. fJ5% off ' on all pizza f 
• 
•WATCH 
REPAIR 

• 
CLOCK REP.AIR 

• 
JEWELRY REPAIR 

• 
ENGRAVING 

• 
ANTIQUE WATCH 

& CLOCK REPAIR 

•TIMEX 
REPAIR 




••  won't believe it ... until you hear it  
MARK  D. HIRTH  ·~.~  
Licensed Watchmaker  .  ~'  

HIRTH'S JEWELERS ~; 
r----------------ll SM ~ 
i!l

913 W. McKinley Hwy. 1 
c

College Square Mrshawaka, Indiana ~ 
I: ;z' TOWN AND COUNTRY
(219) 255-381 7 (219) 287-9893 

SHOPPING CENTER 
Busrness Home 
RT.20 

Come You Fightin' Irish 
TO TOWN &COUNTRY ·FOR YOUR FAVORITE 
WINES-LIQUORS 
Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM 
LIQUOR • WINE 10% DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC I.D. BEER· BEST PRICE IN TOWN VOLUME DISCOUNT FREE DELIVERY 
TWO FREE LOCATIONS DELIVERY 

Wednesday, April 7, 197& the observer
Business, Science, Engineering 
by Jim Commyn Staff Reporter 

EDITOR'S NOTE: For the first time in several semesters, no Course Evaluation Booklet will be a\·ailable to students selecting coo­courses for the upcoming semester. 
To 1111 this void, the Observer offers a two part series featuring the new courses to be offered next fall. Today's article focuses on new course offerings In Business, Sci­
ence, and Engineering.  
The Colleges of Business,  Sci­ 
ence  and  Engineering  offer  few  
changes in the fall curriculum.  But  

several course changes may add a little variety for students in those colleges. 
In the College of Business, new fat·ulty have been added to reduce das!> 'size and provide more sec­tions of the more popular courses in the college. 
Prot'cssor Robert Williamson. chairman-elect in Accounting sta­ted that several extra sections of Theory and Practice I would he addccl. The course is taken typically by juniors in the dcpart­rnt·nt. "All our other normal fall semester offerings arc present." William!>on said. 
More sel'lions of Federal Income Tax. a required course. have been added. Williamson explained the the course will be offered onlv in the fall semester. "By offering all tax section!> in the first term." Williamson said, "we arc now able to offer a followup course in advanced taxes second semester. The fir~t course is a prerequisite. howt•vt•r. ·· 
Missing from the offerings in Accounting arc ACC'T 261. Hasic Accounting. and ACCT 476. Pcr­~onal Income Taxes. which were open to non-business students. Professor George Viger. who has traditionally t;111ght Hasic Accoun· ting will be on leave next year. Williamson insisted that the course may be offered in the spring with another instructor. 
Pt•r,onal Income Taxes will not he offered for non-business majors bccau'l' l'acultv arc nt·cdcd to teach the h•deral lr{come Tax l'OUrse for major,. It too, wa' open to rHln-bu,inL·~~ student~. 
"lh offering all the tax cour!>es to our major' in the fall ~cmcstcr. \\e are Llliahlc to provide the extra 'L'clion~ for the non-bu,ines!> stu­dent,," Williamson ~aid. The courw will be offered for non-busi­!lL'" major' in the spring. William­'on added. "Ideally we would like to L'Xpand our tax courses even rnon·. Eventually we would like to have tax courses for non-business students, a separate eoursc for business students who aren't maj­oring in Accounting. and courses compri~~d solcy of Accounting 
111".(01',, 
Management Department Chair-
WANTED 

Aller graduation what? PEACE CORPS offers job experience that's career applicable. Talk to recruiters today al Memorial library. THis is the last recruiting visit lhis school year Only two days lefl. Talk to recruiters now. 
Ride needed to Kalamazoo on April 81h or 9th. Call Mary 5384. 
LOST & FOUND Losl two piece pool cue. No questions asked reward. Call 5148 
LOST 1 pr. of men's black framed bifocals on campus. If found call 8661. Aller 5 pm call 232-3217. REWARD. 
Found: One Indianapolis High School ring. Call: Jack 3597 
FOR SALE 

On Sale Right Now: Armory Party tickets ar SU ticket office $3. Don't rake a CHANCE and wait until the LAST minute. 
Must Sell Sony TC640B Reel-to.reel & tapes. 287 ·0885 
Dual 1229Q changer -S 180 Call Len 289 8990 Less than 1 yr. old .. e)(cellent condition. 
New course offerings limited for fall semester 
man Joseph Sequin commented His Environment. CE 213. Al­that the "good old-time favorites though the title remains the same, were being offered again." No the content and approach has new courses are being offered in changed remarkably, according to Management next fall, but men­Professor Thomas Theis. tioned a slight change has been "Students will be participants made inthc statistics course, a mainly in the simulated environ­requirement for Business Adminis­ment the course works in," Thies tration sophomores. "One section said. "Through the use of compu­will be experimental." Sequin ters we will be creating a simulated said. "The class will meet twice metropolitan environment. Stu­weekly in a large lecture format. In dents will take on the roles of addition students will participate in various personalities on the munici­one small group discussion each pal. county and state level such as week. industrialists, politicians, and news 
Dr. Herbert Sim noted that the personalities.'' Finance Department was offering The course could become comp­more courses than in recent years. lex depending on the issues that "Wc arc offering a much larger arc discussed and th e decisions number and a greater variety than that arc made by the students in before." Sim said. Three new eonjunction with the computer. faculty members will join the The course is open to all interested department in the fall. They arc: students and does not require the Professor Lee Tavis from th c technical prerequisites that other University of Texas. Professor courses in Engineering might. .James Johnson from Western Mi­Theis stated. chigan University. and Professor .1. No new courses will be offered in Halloran from Washington Univer­Aerospace or Mechanical Engin­sity. All will begin teaching upper eering. One new course will be level courses. In addition. two offered in Architecture, ARCH 577 sections of Business Finance will Principles of Human Settlement. be offered for non-business stu­
In the college of Science, the cnts at 10 and II MWF. 

most new courses are being offeredNo new courses or extra sections in the newly created department of will be offered in the Marketing Microbiology. which will be admit­Department. 

ting undergraduates as majors for the first time.
Engineering Dr. Joseph Tihen explained the 
changes in the Biology Depart­

A significant ehange in the ment. "Cell Biology. BIOL 341. nrrrieulum in Electrical Engineer­will onlv be offered as a lecture ing is EE 224, Introduction to course in the fall." he said. "In the Electrical Networks. While the spring semester all the labs for the course is required of all sopho­course will be offered." More lab mores in the college. this is the first sections have been added in Physi­time a separate section of th c ology. BIOL 344. One new cou~se, course will be available for electri­BIOL 561 is being added on the cal engineers alone. graduate level. 
Significant changes have also In Mathematics, the only new offered in the Physics Department. starts next Mondav.

,.....•......................................... 
~ 1975 Freshman Registers $2.00~ ~ 975 Telephone Directories~ ! $.25 ~ 
On sale this week and nexf.
• 

Services Office 3-5 MWF. : 2nd Floor LaFortune 
..........................•...................: 
takt·n place in the course. Man and courses on the undergraduate level 
L~~k t"3 F~r Hs 7 
we 'ha.v~ u.~~d 

Looking for a place to get away on Belfry 300 less 9 on the hospital Lake Michigan. For rent Lodge and commillee, her donation in con troll cabins during April and-or May. ing killens has systematized the Only 30 min. from campus: Gintaras throb wren and blue bird flu that has resort· 15860Lake Shore Rd. Union pallerned this tivesome. One 20, Pier Mich. Te. 616-469-3298 three 19. 
Greyhound Bus to Chicago. Leaves "Gertrude Smith", trom Main Circle at 5:45 every "Samantha," and Co. (5th floor Friday. Call Tom at 8338 tor further McCandless) Would like to contact into. you, but have no way. Would you 
please call again? or 8833 Will do typing experie..ced, themes, 
manuscripts. Call 233-8512 To all who know Sister Jean Lenz, Rector of Farley: today is her Typing . 35cents a page. Call Dan birthday. Call her up at 7072 and 
27 2-5559' congratulate her. 
Women Tea and Rice Ain't thai nice! Society of Woman Engineers in­trest group . organizational meet· Sayonara to Hong Kong, 
..

ing. 7:00PM, Wed. Room 3117. Eng. I knew I'd never stop waiting, so I BLDG. comprimised. Thanks tor the great weekend. Typing Wanted: pick-up & cif!livery, 

5 room house within walking dist­ance of N.D. 233 6438 
4,5,6 bedroom houses. Completely furnished. Extremely nice.' Real close ro campus. Sept. 1976, 9 month lease. 233·2613 or 232-7263 
For rent 518 So. Falcon Str. Completely furnished 6 room house. 
3 bedroom, basement. drive in, closed yard. $150 a month, plus security and utilities. Call 233-4425 Approved by Off Campus Housing. 
For Rent next school term. 5 bedrooms -2 baths all furnished porch off street parking. Near N.D. 9 month lease. 234 2626. 
Summer rentals 4 bedroom, 5 bedroom house, 1 bedroom apt. 3 bedroom apt., all furnished. Near 
N.D. very reasonable. 234-2626 
5 room house two bedrooms for rent, fenced yard, gas furnace, garage, fire place, near Notre Dame. 1 block from St. Joseph Hospital. 233-5991 
Summer houses and rooms tor rent· real close to campus. Furnished ridiculously reasonably. 233·2613 or 232-7263 
Miliken Rentals 282·2089 233-5833. House & apartments available for June or Sept. 
NOTICES 
Morrissey Loan closes Tues. Apr. 
13. All loans must be paid by then. Hours 11:15·12:15. Call 7442,8220, or 8105 
Free Puppy! 3 months old, male, mixed breed. Needs a good home. For more information call Lynda 7668 (9-5) or Mrs. Gardner 272-6869 alter 5 
Accurate, fast typing. HOurs 8 am to 8 pm Mrs. Donoho 232-0746 
Stereo components 20 percent 40 percent Discount All quality name brands. RMS Audio 321 S. Main 288-1681 M-F 12:00-6:00 
Linda's Letters, dissertations spec­ialists, typing at student rates 289-5193 
Set your own hours and income selling our line of handmade Indian Jewelry. Free details. Bluebird manufacturing. 524 Bryn Maur S.E. Alburquerque, N.M. 87106 
Rugby Shirts. get the same shirts as the Cheerleaders in Blue& Gold, Green& gold & Red& blue. For $13.00. Call Dave 277-0948 
Having a Party? For the lowest prices on egs& cases& free delivery. Call Dave 277-0948 

arc the third semesters of the new calculus sequence implemented this year for students in science and engineering. These courses are MATH 177 and MATH 215. One new course is being c,ffered on the graduate level in conjunction with the Department of Aero;>pace Engineering, MATH 521, Partial and Differential Equations. 
While no new courses are being 

reasonable 683·7759 
PERSONALS 
DEANNE & CHERYL: Golden Ladies are the way of the world. And for (1300x2) miles, you both were Golden. Yeeaow! Love ya both. Mu.rf the Surf Duck the Bush 
MTS (alias Big Ter), It's almost time, and what a night!
......·. 
A
• 

.'~!, . 'if, 
Tom McMahon General Agent 
t. 
Manny /wila Agent 


Karen Wentland Agent 
~~.' 
f-'Yt 
y \t\ 
Diane Long Agent 

Dr. Robert Anthony stated that more sections were being included in Physics for the preprofessional students. 
Brother Columba Curran stated that no substantial changes arc being undertaken by the Chemistry Department next semester. 
Registration for seniors starts tomorrow. Juniors-to-be will rcgic,­ter Friday. Sophomore registration 
'learalh.•r 'ear. Isemester'after st•mt•stt•r. the ( ·(,lk·~t·Master 
fnun Fiddit\ 
l 'nion Life I~<P\ ht•t•n fhe mo...,I atTt•pted. mo~otf popular plan on l'illllJltl'-~l'" all m l'r :\nwril'a. 
Find out"In. 
Call fhe Fidl'lif\ l ·nion {'ollt·~e\Ja ....tt.·r Fil'ld :\ssoriafe 111 'our arl·a: 
915 E. Ced.~r South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 
... . .. .. ~ ~ .: " .. ~-1 • f • 
.. \ • .. ~ ~ • • • • • t • 


the observer Wednesday, April 7, 1976 
Boulac faced with rebuilding line 
by Chip Scanlon 

The late Van Patrick. voice of Notre Dame football. used to say. "You could have driven a truck through that hole." and hopefully Patrick's successor. Don Criqui. will be able to exclaim the same "hen Irish football opens up next fall. 
Presently the gruelling ground­work that will open those holes for Irish hacks is being laid as spring practice proceeds. If nothing else spring practice enables players to gain experience as they attempt to li11 voids left b~ graduating grid­ders. Brian Boulac, offensive line coach. Gln he happy about that. 
Boulac is faced with the enor­mous chore of rebuilding an offen­~i' e linL' that was abandoned bv departing ~enior~ Quehl. Wujciak-. Baut•r and Pohlcn. But to hear Bnulac talh. b,· the opener against Pittsburgh hL''ll have the line ,·karing. holes that ,,·ill have Hea­"'Il~ a;td Hunter grinning from c·ar In car. 
"Kight now we're an experi­L'flt·cd nllen~ivc line." said the fnrmcr lri'>h tight end. "but there ,;:·,· .,c,nal i1;dividuah ''ho arc ''"ing to be ,-a~tly improved when ·. uu <.,tT them next Ldl. .. 
One of thc~e individuals is Ernie Hug cs. Hughes started out his :--;,, rc Dame career a'> a defensive end but wa~ switchco to the offensive line last spring. He successfullv made the transition last season. leading the entire line in time played. According to Boulac.' 'experience is the greatest asset you can have in playing the line." andHughescertainly gained that playing with honorable men­
tion All-American AI Wujciak last year. 
Another lineman of experience, three year letter winner Elton Moore:is benefitting from previous battles in what is sometimes termed "the trenches." Moore has seen a lot of back-up action over his first three years . but he may find himself in the starting role next year. 
Moore. a Sporting News honor­able mention freshman All-Ameri­can, is currently running as a first stringer at the left tackle position and no doubt his previous game time will reap rewards for him. ''Ernie Hughes and Elton Moore arc no doubt going to be better platers as a result of last year.·· conceded Boulac. 
Probablv the most awesome figure on the offensive line is Steve McDaniels. The 6-6. 260 behe­moth is in his sophomore year and a~ Boulac laughingly admits"he ccrtainlv has the tools." 
But n10rc importantly many think that McDaniels has come of age and is readv to a'>sume a starting role. "Steve has matured physical­lv and mentallv." said Boulac. and ~ometimes it· is what you have learned that is more important than mt'!'e si1c or strength. 
One player who is taking advan­tage of the extra look that the coaching staff is giving all the players is Dave Vinson. "Dave has been a pleasant surprise thus far." commented Boulac . Last year Vinson played middle line­backer for the jayvees but is one of many players who have been changed to other positions. To be a winning team you have to have vour best athletes on the field. It lsn't any advantage to have your 

*Observer 
Sports 
Netters blank Wisconsin 
b) Tom Powanda set the pace with a 6-4. 6-2 first 
The Notre Dame tennis team doubles victory over Dave Tebo and captured their eighth victory of the Tom Cascarano. Mike O'Donnell season vesterday as they blanked and Brian Hainline then took the Uni~ersity o.f Wisconsin (Osh­twelve straight games as they kosh) 9-0. defeated Dave Hasner and Ed 
Rick Slager and Randy Stehlik Rocky in identical 6-0, 6-0 sets. Marty Horan and Dave Wheaton took a tie-breaker to win in the first
Lacrosse teams 
set but easily took the second set sutter setbacks over Jeff Secombe and Mark Hevday. bJ Tom Bingle Ii wasn't any rougher in the singles competition as Oshkosh 
The Notre Dame Lacrosse Club never won more than seven games experienced setbacks this weekend in any match. The Irish took all six a'> both A and B teams suffered singles slots in twelve straight sets. their first defeats of the season. In the number one slot, O'Donnell 15-0 and 9-3. respectively. defeated a stubborn Tebo. 6-3. 6-4. 
friday evening. the B team. Horan shut out Cascarano in the pla~·ing at Kalamazoo in a Bi-Cen­first set of singles and took the next tennial fc'>tival. could not capitalize one while giving up four games. on the many opportunities provided 6-0. 6-4 was the final. Hainline had by the penalt:-·-plagucd Albion an easy time with Hasner as he won Britons. Scores b\ Pete Buzaid, in straight sets 6-1. 6-0. Wheaton l'om Capotosto. and Tim Walsh was another easy winner as he beat ''ere not enough to turn the tide Secombe 6-0, 6-2. Bruno turned ina against a physical Albion squad. strong performance as he defeated 
The following morning proved' to Rocky 6-1, 6-2. 
... he as dismal for the lris11 as rhe In the final event of the after­' 'ening before when the A team noon, Dave Cantu, a sophomore 1raveled to Bowling Green. Ohio to from Bellevue. Wash.. participated , lash with the nationally-ranked in his first varsity match of the 
Falcons. Bowling Green's near season. He continued the Irish 
t1awlcss execution and Notre streak as he soundly defeated 
Dame·.., inability to sustain a viable Hayday 6-2, 6-1. 
offensive threat combined to def-­The shutout was the first of the 
late h ish hopes for an undefeated season for the Irish and raised their 
season. record to 8-4. Next match for the 
The Irish will attempt to avenge netters will be away against the this loss and re-establish their nationally ranked Michigan Wol­penchant for winning When· they verines on April 13. The Irish will take on the Wolverines of Mtclligan return home after four away meets 
'IVednesday night at Cartier Field. to face Purdue on April 20. Starting Face-off is scheduled for 7:30. time in that match will be 2 p.m. 
better players mired behind some­one a little more talented at one particular position. 
Jim Weiler is another well­rounded athlete who has also been switched for the upcoming season. Weiler is playing tight end behind Irish All-American Ken MacAfee. With Notre Dame's offense geared towards the running game. having two tight ends in the game at one time happens frequently. 
Weiler had previously played haltback, averaging over four yards a crack in 1974 while being noted for his tine blocking. "Weiler has been doing a more than adequate job at tight end so far," said Boulac, "and it's essential with our offense that we have a good back up tight end." 
Dave Huffman, last year's out­standing freshman tight end. prov­ed just how important it is that we have two tight ends. "That's how Huffman got all that playing time last season," admitted Boulac, "playing in those two tight end situations." And currently in the midst of all these linemen is Dave Huffman once again. this time at the center position. Although primarily a defensive player in high school. Huffman did play center in the Oil Bowl All-Star game his .~enior vear. One of the taller players· on the team at 6-5. 228, Huffman "has all the potential. but will have to learn the techniques that go with starting every offen­sive plav." admitted Boulac. 
The man who is responsible for showing Huffman these techniques is senior center Vince Klees. Klees has considerable experience. play­ing behind Brenneman and Quehl over the years. Klees is the first string snapper right now and according to Boulac. "Huffman is going to have to have a real good spring to beat out Vince." 
But the spring isn't the only time that frontrunners have to worry 


Offensive line coach Brian Boulac has the unenviable task of finding replacements for four starters who are graduating from last season's line. (Photo by Make Kron) about getting beat out for a assume a big role in the program. position. There is always the fall "Hopefully we can lind someone and the matter of the 30 recruits who will be able to till in in a who will be throwing their hats into back-up role just a!. Huffman did the ring. last year," reflected Boulac. It's a 
"Each coach has to feel that a long season that sometimes makes recruit can help him," said recently back-ups starters in no time. as last named Recruiting Coordinator year proved. Boulac, "but it certainly would be a For now the search for the most big weight on a recruit to be built talented lineman goes on, but by up before he got here.". next fall when Criqui calls the play. 
But before the season IS over one no doubt those holes Van Patrick of the 18 linemen recruited could used to speak of will be there. 
ND victimized by Va/po,14-3 
by Rich Odioso walks and a hit batsman set up Ted Schebor had the only clean hit of Hofferth's two-run double in the the inning a two-run single as It was one of those days when second. Hughes pitched out of Valpo made it 10-2. they "shoulda stood in bed" for the further trouble in that inning 
The Irish tagged Crusader hurler 
Irish baseball team yesterday. striking out Rabbit Skaltsas for his Pete Herzog for 11 hits but were 
Committing five errors in the fifth 'K'. After a walk and Dave continually confounded as they left 
process Notre Dame fell to Valpa­Lazzeri's triple had tied the game 
12 men stranded. 

raiso 14-3 at Valpo. at 2-2 in the top of the inning. 
Left fielder Tom Walbrun hadA five-run third and a three-run 
Hughes wasn't as fortunate in three hits to lead ND but was leftfourth did ND in. The Crusaders the five-run third. After a wa:k and stranded or wiped out on fielder's
scored their eight runs in those Dave Lazzeri's triple had tied the choices each time. Catcher Timinnings on a total of only four hits. 

game at 2-2 in the top of the inning. Pollack had a double, a single and aThe Irish scored a run in the top an error and two more walks loaded walk but he also was unable to
of the first when Rick Pullano the bases for Valpo with two outs. score.

walked. went to third on Mike Fred Schebor then singled for one 

The Irish posted their final run in run and two more scored when
Galloway's hit-and-run single and 

the top of the ninth when Chuck Fiascki dropped what would have 
scored on Frank Fiascki's hit to 

O'Connor doubled and scored on a been an inning-ending pop out. fielder's choice. 
left. Notre Dame had the makings 
of a big inning putting men on 

Hofferth then capped the rally with 
second and third with two outs but ND. now S-7, will try to regroup
another two-run double.
couldn't get the timely hit, a with a single game at Bradley on problem that plagued the Irish all Valpo added three runs and Friday and a doubleheader with the afternoon. Notre Dame added three more Braves on Saturday. The Irish 
Bob Hughes, Notre Dame's errors in the fourth as Irish reliever return to Kline Field on Sunday for starter was quick but wild and two Joe Karpowicz never had a chance. a I p.m. doubleheader with Toledo. 


