
Summer storage 

possibilities pondered 

by Jim Hershey Staff Reporter 
The Student Union is investiga­ting four alternatives for summer stoni·gc. Thc~e ·arc: the Air Freight· Service. storage in the South Bend area. ~toragc ~imilar to last year's and free personal ads in the Observer for storage. 
Last. year. Bekins Moving Co. failed to bring back 8 of the I 5 trucks loads it had stored. When students demanded refunds, the company was reluctant to make payment on their claims. 
Commenting on last year's pro­blem. Walt Ling. Associate Direc­tor of Student Union, said, "Stu­dent Union is reluctant to provide this service this year because of past problems. However. since Student Union is a student oriented "safe." He noted that the compli­organ\:f.ptio~T, we· w\11, ·A,ficmpt to, ca~ed, Pfice sy.st<;m. prev.epts Stu­pnwiUe.'it.' he adMp/.1/,' I' ·,I ~id'ont• Union fronl prhitin'g' up iltly 
Ling also said that Student Union ·1· pticc list. However. he said a 100 recommendation~ have strongly pound trunk going to New York will discouraged summer storage. lnd cost around $22. He also added addition, he noted that no other that this service 11 ould be especial­university· that he knows of pro-ly suited to thL' needs of seniors. vides such a service. Student Union plans to print up a 
K.C. Nolan, Service Commis-list of storage places in the South sioncr has contracted Air Freight Bend area. Some South Bend Service to be here from May 5-12. warehouse~ have empty space av­This service will help studen.ts who ailabk fm ~torage. want to send things home. AFS Student Union has inve~tigated trucks will transport students' the possibility of storing goods on items from the bookstore to the campus. However, the Adminis­airport. Deliveries should take two !ration will not allow campus days. facilities to be used for reasons of 
Ling described this system as security and insurance. 
The third plan is to provide studcn~s with free three line ads in the Observer for storage. SU will pick up the bill. Today is the deadline for these ads, which will he printed in Tuesday's edition of the Observer. 
The last alternative is to continue with last year's service. Student Union has-checked with Bekins Van Line~ and Woodworth Storage and Tran~fer. Neither company ha~ yet rcplird. 
l.ing ~aid, "No\\ that the.' (Bdin~) k-tlow how man~· peopk will hL' ~toring, the.'· L'an makv adju\tments." But. he notl'd that Student Union i~ reluc·tant to n·pcat last year's scnicc. 

This m.111 won the annual Mr. L1mpus contest last night. We know only that his name is Tom and he lives in Cavanaugh Hall. (Photo by Eric J,udstrom) 


Group concretizes senior trip plans 
b) Bob Brink fare, a game ticket. and one Avis Staff Reporter rent-a-car with unlimited mileage for every four students. The trip will kick off with a 
When the Irish football team Senior Trip Night at the Senior Bar travels westward next november to so that everybody going can get a faL"e Southern Cal. they won't be chance to meet each other. On travelling alone. As part of next Wednesday, Nov. 24 buses will .'Tar·.\ Senior Trip. several hundred take the students to St. Joseph's Notre Dame and St. Mary's seniors Airport, from where they will fly to will he at the Los Angeles Coli­Los Angeles. The students will scium to cheer the Irish. then take buses to the Holiday Inn 
Organizers for the trip met in Hollywood, where they will stay vcstenlay to further plan the event for four nights. Trip participants and to respond to a letter in will return to South Bend late l'l'sterdav's Observer that com­Sunday, Nov. 29 . .plained ahout the $50 non-refund­The Senior Trip organizers arc able depo~it that must he paid planning many activities for the when signing up for the trip. Those students during their stay in South­handling the organization of next ern California. They arc planning year's trip an: Mike Miller, senior to sponsor beach parties, and arc trip chairman, Boh Tully, senior tr_1ing to obtain discount tickets to dass president-elect, Ken Girouard l>i~ncyland. senior class secretary-elect, Br. The Senior Trip committee so far .John BcnL·sh. director of student has chartered three planes with affair~. and John Reid. assistant ~pace for 4HI persons. Out of these dirL·ctor of student affairs. 4HI spots, 80 arc reserved to St. 
According to Miller the trip. Mary's students, fifteen for the open to seniors-to-be-only, will cost cheerleaders, five for the senior approximately $255, although this class officers and the trip chair­may be raised slightly if airline man, and five for certain admins-expenses increase. This sum 
(Continued on page 12)covers motel accomodations, plane 

server 
Friday, April 23, 1'l76 

WalhtL'e but t!'d nut hccau~l· they invokl·d m1 name in alnHl\t c·.'·erv viewed his bcin1• in a 11 lll'ckhair a·\ speech hc.madc... Wallace ~aid.· a health probkm. Wallace claimed that C;trtn L'VL'n 
"That has bcL'n VLT\ dilti,·ult to endorsed him for the 1 ice-prl'si­overcolliL', .. Wallac·c ~<ti<t. "I can dency in 1'172. but "time~ have Un<kr~t:lltd peopk'\ c'Onc·c·rn. hut I L·hanged." "lk thought I 11a~ a 
have no hc.tlt,, Jlr<•blcms." very great man in ll/72." Wall;h'L' 
"I know that the media is tn·ing added. to make it appvar that as a result of Multinational corpnration~ \\<lUld till' fact that I do not get around like he discouraged from nw.' ing out of I used to, that we arc not going to the countrv to "utili1.e sl;nc labor" do that 11cll... Wallace comml·ntcd. if he i~ l'l~·ctcd prl'\ident. WallaL'l' He pointL'd to a recent poll whic-h ~aid. Such al'lions are "c.<l~ting ~howed his running second to job~ in Indiana and all <ll.l'l' 1he Carter in popular vote with 1.2 countrv and in the long run work in million votl'S to Carin's I.H mil­thL· disinterest of the Americ-an lion. pcopk. ·· he charged. 
Thi~ ~amc poll showed Sen. He said he would ask Congress Henn .fal·~on with 550,000 votes to eliminate tax incentive~ lnr and Morris Udall polling 474,000 companies to move overseas and in votes aero~~ the nation. ca~es where corporations ohvi<HI'h 
utilize cheap. foreign labor fm "pure profit" there ~hould be 

Charges ambiguity ··restriction~.'' 
Critkiles Welfare

Senior Staff Reporters 
In the pre~s conference. held in an airplane hangar ncar the ter­Governor George Wallace said minal, Wallace said that llemocra­WallaL'l' niticized welfare pro­yesterday in a press conference tic frontru nncr .Iimmv Carter is grams as giving "~omcthing forheld at the South Bend airport that conducting a campaigi1 based on nothing.·· and called for a tTduc­he would be doing much better in "politics of ambiguity." tion ofgovernment intervention in the primaries if he were not "I think his problem later on will the lives of the common peopll'. Heconfined too a wheelchair. Wallace be people will like to know just said. however, that there should he also commented on multinational what he means. He says just social concern for those who arccorporations, Jimmy Carter and enough to satisfy some conserva­entitled to it, citing specifically thewelfare during his hour-long stop. 
tives and just enough to satisfY blind.
Arriving at the Michiana Region­some liberals and then you go "I think the American people arcal Airport shortly after 12 noon, home and night and wonder what tired of this promising. promising.
Wallace briefly addressed a crowd 
he really means," Wallace re­promising," the Alabama go\'l't"IHlrof over I00 people on hand to greet 
marked. asserted. "Those who prontise
him. He was officially welcomed to Wallace noted that this is good everything arc really promisingSouth Bend by Mayor Peter J. 
politics. ''it's worked so far (for nothing."
Nemeth and St. Joseph County Carter)." but people will want to "I'm not going to make all the Democratic Chairman W. Joseph know eventually how Carter stands promises in the world,·· Wallarl' Doran. 
on the issues. continued... But I promi~e you <lllL'After his speech. Wallace shook Carter's criticism of Wallace in thing. that I will pay more attention
hands and signed autographs for 
this campaign year annoyed the to those who produce and work.
the crowd, many of whom held 
Alabama Governor. "In 1970 when
bumper stickers and posters sup­(Continued on page 5)
he ran for governor of Georgia, he
porting the governor. Wallace then 
held a short press conference before departing at I p.m. for Terre Haute. The South Bend visit was one of five campaign stops in Indiana and Kentucky yesterday. 
Handicap hinders campaign 
"If I had not been in a wheel­chair I would have carried Florida easily," Wallace l'laimed...And I would have even carried Massa­chusetts... 
The Alabama governor cited an NBC-New York Times poll taken in Florida the night before the pri­mary. The poll stated that two out of every five of those polled said that they had wanted to vote for 


---------------------------~­
the observer Friday, April 23, 1976 
·-l' 

~On~ Camp~s __ Toda~}----.... 
1ncl.w. apri I 23 

1.!. J) pm·-travelogue, "australia" by dr. morris pollard, n.d., -;ponsored by biology dept., galvin aud. 
1 1) Jllll-lecture, "public finance in kenya", room 214 O'shaugh­nessy. • 
\ ',,) pill colloquium "orthogonal groups of defective spaces b\' pr"f edward connors, univ. of massachusetts and \1'-ltlll~ professor at n d, sponsored by math dept., room 226, computing center. 
mass and dinner, bulla shed.
' 1 · 1'111 film, ·cJuck soup", sponsored by circle k, tickets: $1,

-'I " I ! \1111 engineering aud. 

,. ]1111 musical drama, "goclspell", sponsored by nd/smc tlwatl·r. tiLkd, $2 'ill general; $2 faculty, staff, and -.tuclents, for turthl·r information, call 284-4176, stepan center. 
12 dill album hour, wsnd 640 am. 

1.! 1·; a1n nocturne night flight, the best in progressive rock, jazz diHI blue~. "gt>orge the friendly mainstream" wsnd 
88.9 fm. 
p1:' baseball, bethel college at n d. 

rugby, nd vs. ciPvPiand greys, stepan field. 
.! pill· play, "tlw mirrorm<~n" a participatory play for children by bri,Jn way, limited seating, no admission charge, but t1ckets required, for further information call 284-4176, o'lauglin lobby, smc. 
7, ') & film, "horse feathers" sponsored by circle k, tickets: 11 pm--51, engineering aud. 
!Jill--musical drama, "godspell" tickets $2.50 gneral; $2 taculty, staff and students, stepan center. 
Rpm--play, "who's afraid of virginia wolf?", presented by: nd/smc theatPr, free admission, o'laughlin aud., smc. 1 
pm-­ two piano concert with bPrenson, sponsored by smc  gwen music  goldsmith dept, little  and the gail ater,  
12 dill-­ album hour, wsnd 640 am.  

12 l'i am-nocturne night flight, the best in progressive rock, jazz and blues. tonight's host: jorge lopez, wsnd, 88.9 fm. sunday, dpriI 2"> 10 am--tennis, eastern m1chigan univ. at n d. 2 pm--play, "the mirrorman" limited seating, call 284-4176 for information, o'laughlin lobby, smc b 30 pm--"meet your candidate" night, reignbeaux of le mans. 8 pm--play, "~A>ho's afraid of virginia woolf?", presented by nd/smc theater, o'laughlin aud., smc. 
8:15 p111 -concert, n.d. chorus concert, spon~ored by music dept., washington hall. 
12 am--album hour, wsnd 640 am. 

12 1-> pm-nocturne night flight, the best in progressive rock, jazz and blues, tonight's host: dave szymanski, wsnd 88.9 fm. 
-~i:Stol packing legal 
GRANGEVILLE. Idaho (AP) ­

Mayor Ralph Bos says the "domes· 
tiL tranquility" of his town is being 
dl'~tro~·cd by people who pack 
pistols on Main Street. 
But the City Council disagreed 

and lidS shot down a proposed 
ordinance that would have out· 
Ia" cd wearing handguns within 
L'it\ limits for no apparent reason. 
The council for the northern Idaho town of 3. 700 rejected the proposal afler about 30 citizens, some carrying their guns, de· nounccd the measure as a denial of their constitutional rights to bear arms. 
It is a customary practice for people in northern Idaho's rugged, timbered panhandle to carry un­cased shotguns, rifles and ammuni­tion in their pickup trucks. They say they need the guns for self· protection and hunting. The ord· inance would not have banned carrying uncased shotguns or rif­les. 
City Attorney Dennis Albers had drafted the ordinance after a pistol·packing Claude Graham and his companion confronted Idaho County Prosecutor William Taylor Jr. on March 29 and demanded his immediate resignation. They said they didn't like the way he was interpreting Idaho laws. 
Graham told City Council a gun is "just like any other muscle in your body. If you don't exercise it regularly it goes away. I only exercised my inalienable right. I'm glad I did it because I can see that this right is in danger." 
The mayor was asked if the town had been shot up by gun toters. 
"No, but do we have to wait for that?" Bos said. 
"There is not a lot of people wearing guns, but we don't want to waiersons was given to City Coun­
cil. It said in part: " ...we will resist with all lawful means your tyran· nical act which attempts to abro· gate the Second Amendment of the 
U.S. Constitution. You will be taken to court should you attempt to tamper with any other of our inalienable rights ...If anyone, should be disarmed it should be the government, not us.'' 
Upset by ~ax _laws . ..~,.~,.,. __ _ . 
·, 
-~ 

B'elgman leaves $:W:ed8iJ 
• ' STOCKHOLM. Sweden (AP) . Film director Ingmar Bergman, beset by tax problems, announced yesterday he could no longer live in Socialist Sweden and was leaving the country to continue his work abroad. The man who almost single· handedly put Sweden on the map as a major movie center said he had been harassed and humiliated by "prestige·ridden poker players" in the tax bureaucracy. He said they tried to blackmail him to save face in a highly publicized tax case. His departure was expected to touch off an exodus of prominent Swedish artists. including some of the actors he made famous. from the country for better treatment abroad. Among stars who gained fame through Bergman were Bibi Anderson, Max von Sydow and Norwegian Liv Ullmann. 
Bergman, 58, reportedly flew Wednesday to Paris to stay with 
Senior formal tix available from SU 
Tickets for the Class of 76 Senior Formal are now on sale. Dinner/ dance tickets are $26.50 per couple while dancc·onlv tickets are $9.00 per couple. A si-t·down dinner will be sen cd consisting of Orange and Grapefruit sections in Champagne, a New York Strip Sirloin. baked potato. corn o'brien. a tossed salad. and a strawberry parfait. Included in the price of $26.50 or $9.00 will be a 12 oz. brandy snifter for each person attending. 
A cocktail hour will run from 6:30 · 
p.m. to 7:30p.m. with dinner being served afterwards. The dance will begin at 9:30 p.m. with music by the Don Crone Band. 
Tuxedos will be optional. Ehnin· ger's Floral Shop will give a 10 percent discount on all orders made by May 4. 
Tickets arc on sale at the Student Union Ticket office from the class officers or Rich Johnson (8392). Karla Grazier (6782), Jim Lands· berg (1216). Dinner/dance tickets will be on sale until Wed. May 5, dance only tickets will be sold until 
i .. Ma~· 7. 

~The Observer 
Night Editor-Chris Smith Ass't Night E(Hor-Joe Bauer Blessed Lavout-f-rank Kebe, Copy Reader-Matt Kane, Jack D' Aurora Day Editor-Kathy McEntee, 
Sue Ballman  
Editorials-Jim Eder  
Features-Tim 0' Reilly  
Sports-f red Herbst  
Typist~  Terri  Harlan,  Morey  
Blinc/Pr,  Mary  Tobin,  Maur­ 
ePn McCarthy  

Night Controller-Martha 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and Vo.€ekly during the surrmer session, except during the exam; and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Darre and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions rray be purctlased for $18 ($10 per semester) fro'Tl The Observer, Box Q, Notre Darre, Indiana 46556. Sea>nd Class postage paid, Notre Darre, IN 46556. 

FREE ADS !!!! 
GET RID OF THAT OLD RUG, COUCH, T.V., ETC. WITH FREE AD SPACE IN THE OBSERVER!!! 
.\' { .. 
friends in France. French soufces with tax fraud involving $750,000 close to Bergman, however, said from a Swiss company he set up they had no information that he and owned between 1968 and 1975. was in the country. The charges were later found 
Bergman did not say where he unjustified by the chief public would settle, but friends indicated prosecutor, but Bergman had in the he would choose Italy or France. meantime suffered a nervous break He has earlier expressed a love for down. Italy and had plans to work with The government still maintained director Federico Fellini. he owed back taxes. and Bergman 
Bergman announced his decision accused two tax officials of trying to to leave Sweden in a bitter open bargain a settlement with him after letter published by the widely first demanding that he pay a tax circulated newspaper Expressen. l:krgman said he rejected any He said he had been a convinced bargaining with the officials who Social Democrat and believed Soc· "presumably assumed that I. in my ialist Sweden was the best country state of depression and out of fear in the world until the tax case of more gauntlet·running would shocked him into realizing "that surrender to this blackmail." anybody in this country. any time Bergman said he had paid taxes and in any way, can be attacked amounting to more than $454.000 and humiliated by a special kind of in recent years and was always bureaucracy that grows like a anxious to be scrupulously honest galloping cancer." in such matters. He announced he 
Bergman was arrested while was leaving his entire fortune in rehearing a production of August Sweden "at the disposal of the Strindberg's "The Dance of Internal Revenue Service" to prove Death" at the Royal Dramatic he was not "bailing out because of Theatre last Jan. 30 and charged the taxation court procedures." 
SEAN CONNERY. AUDREY HEPBURN. 
t_1t.~o_bil[ fUUI~aria'l,: 
WEEKDAYS: 7:00-0:00 SAT. SUN. 1 :45-3:45-5:35-7:45-9:45 P.M. 
Special Family Bergin Matinees! Sat·Sun 'till Spm 
BEFORE YOU LEAVE GIVE YOURSELF TIME 
o TO STOP 

• 
TO REFLECT 

• 
TO PRAY 



o TO MAKE SOME 
SENSE OF All THIS o RETREAT WEEKEND 0 OLD COLLEGE 0 APRIL 30 MAY 1 & 0 SENIORS ONLY 
o FEE S6 
o 
SIGN UP CAMPUS MINISTRY OFFICE 

o 
DIRECTED BY REV Bill TOOHEY 


cs.c 

NOTE: 
ADS CONSIST OF 3 LINES , 32 CHARACTERS PER LINE. Name, Phone No., Address required 

Adults Sat& Sun 
$1.50 Same low Prices
Child $1 
Either Show 

ADS FOR FREE SPACE MUST BE IN THE S.G. OFFICE BY 4:30 PM (4/2) FRIDAY 

;J t:··· ' •. 

Friday, April 23, 1976 the observer 
3 




~Me ·;s~siAtiss·:·cHJb· tl~tas·····. 
meetings about dept. future 

lll'lot (' .1 !>111.111 group, the Asian Studies p.1rt of .1 talk on Zen Buddhism. (Photo by Eric Commissiondt•nuHlstrated the Tea Ceremony as ).udstrom) 


SMC Student Affairs compiles questionaires, asks for reactions 
by Karen Hlnks Staff Reporter 

\t. M;•n ·, S1udcnt Affair~ 111 ronjunction 11 ith 1he ln~lilutional 
Hvwarrh t L'niL'r lw~ compiled 
qu,·~timt;~trL'' to be an~wcred b~· 
'-t1. Man·, ~ludenh. 
lk~id~·m Jill'. C.11npu~ Minicstry. 
( illlll~eling and Career Develop­
llll'nl. and Student Affairs evalua­
ti"n questionaires were randomly 
allachcd to the student's rcgistra­
ltnn form~. Some have already 
been turned in by students as ~f 
Ja,t week. . 
The purpose of dividing the 
que~tionaire into four sections and 
randomly distributing them is to 
lind out how students feel about 
the services offered bv Student Affairs. according to Sr: .leannete le\ter. acting institutional re­'earcher. 
Assassin Service lowers prices 
An lo,tal A~~a~~in Snvil'l' has n·durnl ih price~ from $7 for n l'Uhn rrL·am to $5 and from $13 ),,; ha11.111a rrcam ~pecialto $10. 
I Ill' 1\~''"in ~nvice i~ made up PI ,,,lullll'l'l'' who will hit anvonc II".· pi IL'aL·ill'r~ and reL·tor~). anv­Il 111 ,,. (L'H'L'jll rl•"~room~ and din­ing h;IIJ,). an1·1ime toda~· nr tomor­
r"". 
liH>'L' 11 ''hing to t<tkc out a L'onlt,IL'I 'lwuld call either Cindy ML'tlltt'k .J 111\I.J. Cath~· GAllagher INJ.'. m .IP .-\nn Stubn 1705. 

Food Service positions open 
Three position~ arc still open on the Food Service Advisory Council. according to Tom Soma. director of special projel·ts in student govern­ment. The positions arc open only · to students. 
The Food Advisory Council is composed of 12 members. eight of whid1 are students. The other four po~itions arc filled by Administra­tors in Notre Dame Food Service. 
"The counl'il acts in an advisory capacity." Sorn explained. "It meets once every two to three weeks and discusses complaints and policy." 
This year the council was succ­essful in including "Mr. Pibb" as a soft drink choice, hard boiled eggs at hrl·ukfast and in induding an alternative entree on steak nights. 
"The counril is an opportunity for 'tudents to get involved,'' Soma eontitllll'd. "It's u great opportun­itv for studenh to voice their l'l~mplaints and work for positive changes.·· 
Students intcre~tcd in applying for these positions should eontaL;t Soma at 8381. 
"The idea grew from Dr. Duggan St. Man·'s President. who felt that ,inn· s.tudents had an input in evaluating facultv. thcv-;lwuldulso h;ll ,. input in cv.aluati.ng Student ,\ll.llt~ ... Lester 'aid. 
\IUdl'nts liTre a~kcd to rate how thL'I pnrcivcd the role of resident ad1 isor and what importnacc the roil' serves. "We want to know what ~tudcnts feel the RA program b de~igncd to do and whether there ~hould be more emphasis placed on the freshmen and sophomores," Lester stated. 
Lester remarked that Stevie Wcrnig. ussistant to the vice-presi­dent for Student Affairs. was interL·~tcd in the reaction of the womL·n towards the sports pro­gram. government structure. and the rcprescntution of student gov­nnmL·nt. The questions arc dc­'igncd to give the research center an·urate data to determine whether nr not education is needed in ~tu<IL-nt government. 
·1 h,· St. Man·'s infirmary is inlvrcsted in finding out whether ~tudcnh ar,· interested in health eduL·atinnal programs concerning probkm' faL'l'd by ~tudents ac­rordin.l! In Le~ter. 
MANICURES for men HAIRCUTS 
Lc,IL'r kit that the Counseling Career Development Center were looking for student reaction to the quc~tion of whether or not a student would go to the counseling center or to her resident advisor if she had a problem. 
"Hoth the resident life survcv and the Counseling and Carcc'r Dcvclopcmcnt Center survey act as a cross check." said Lester. "From the results of the two surveys combined. we will be able to determine where students will go if they have a problem and what 
• additional services we can pro­vide." Lester added, "Students have difkrent hope~ for pcr~onal growth during the college years." Listed on one of the questionaircs were a few general cutcgorics of gouls thut students move toward. Each sill­dent is to indicate the degree to which she has achieved each goal. 
"This is a large undertaking. and it is our hope that we will receive good student reply so that the results will represent a good cross sector of the women on campus," 
by Mary P. Egan Contributing Editor 

St. Mary's business majors in conjunction with the Business Club will hold two meetings next week to interview candidates for the Busi­ness and Economics Department and to discuss the fu turc of the department. 
The first meeting will be next Sunday in the Clubhouse from 7pm-8pm. "Students will have a chance to meet with Dr. Lewis D. Ponthicu. assistant professor of Management at Texas Tech Uni· vcrsity," Barbara Mello, a Busi­ness Club member, stated. Mr. Ponthieu is one of the candidates being ronsidcred for chairman of the Business and Economics depar­tment." Mello continued. 
At this meeting the business majors can discuss with the candi­date his view on business educa­tion. curriculum design and what he sees as the future of the department. Mcll said. "Later we will be able to discuss our impres­sions with Dr. Hickey, vice presi­dent for academic affairs." she explained. 
The second meeting will be held next Tuesday, in 161 Lcmans from 
6:30 pm to 7:30 pm. "This will provide ample opportunity for busi­ness majors to discuss the state of the department with Dr. Hickcv and Mrs. Mandell." Mello said. Gail Mandell is Dr. Hickey's assis­tant. 
"We want students to bring their comments, suggestions, and con­structive criticism to this crucial meeting," Mello emphasized. "This will be an excellent oppor­tunity to bring to the attention of Dr. Hickey and Mrs. Mandell the problems of the department. After all, these arc the people who can do something about them. 
"We urge students to think about the direction they'd like to see the department take, the pros and cons of part-time vs. full-time faculty. and types of courses that should be offered." Mello stres­sed. "We want people to think about these ideas and to come to 
the  meeting  to  articulate  their  
view."  
The  former  department  head,  

Farouk Muwakki, is on 
said Lester. Students arc encour­in Lebanon. Muwakki aged to return the qucstionaires to next fall as a faculty 144 LcMans. Mello stated. 
THE 





J&ntgljts 
NEW CONCEPT in hairstyling for Men LOCATED on our lower levei with its own private entrance way. COMPLETE PRIVACY in our individual styling units. SIP COFFEE by the fireplace in a relaxed atmosphere. FAST SERVICE for carefree cuts and blow styles. WE FEATURE RK products. 
PERMANENT WAVING bv NATURAL MAN· $25 

a sabatical will return member, 

$4 PRECISION CUTS $5 $4 BLOW STYLING $4.50 
$1.00 OFF A PRECISION CUT WITH BLOW STYLING WITH YOUR ND OR SMC ID. 

uttn's ( astlt 
54533 TERRACE LANE Tues., Wed., Sat. 8:30 -5:30, Thurs. & Fri. 8:30 -8:30 
~~~-~ 
·~ 
Prcscntlv Dr. .John Croteau is 

acting chairman. hut he is also a 
faculty member at Notre Dame. 
Apparently not all business 

majors arc satisfied. 
"One of the biggest problems of the department has been lack o! advice and counseling." stated Katy Carrigan. a senior hu~inL·~~ major. "There's not been ~llflil'il'nt counseling in the total academiL· program," she continued. "We should rcas~css the prioritic~ and focus of our husinc~s cmarse~. ·1 h, courses have become too bu~inL'~' world orientated and overlno~ tl11 liberal arts side of hu~inL·~~. 
"There's lll·en a lot o! fa,·ult., turnover and quite a fl'11 part-lim· faculty." Carrigan al~n ~aid 
Gail Maggn~. bu~iness rluh ,.,, ,. president. feel~ "it i~ L'\ti'L'tlleil important that the bu~ine~~ ~tudent participates in these mL'L'Iing~ ''\ that we will be able to gL't a tllll representation of student kdin:2 ... 
"I want the chnicc nfch;A'rmant•• reflect what the students 11 ant. and the onlv wav that tim i' possible is if the~; ~l;ow intl'l'l'~t and participate in this decision." Mag gos stated. 

measurments will be taken for 
CAPS and GOWNS 
Wednesday 
April 27 
and 


Thursday 
April 28 


between 

9:00AM­4:30PM 
<9..1--o~ at the 001>~ ~~0-1 0~~~ 
~ 

, 
1 
1 
~ 

--~----~---~ -~ -~---~­
-~----~­
• -.. t""IE.rf''4'•'~'.·\ '.,.~.•• l.t.•'~\.'1•\'\\ ··,-,..,~, •' •. ·•\.1',~1·.· '•
Friday1 April· 13,· 1976 


., ~~~s1nger says .:Caf!lpfllgn ~,has effect··ttn·.:farei{in ··policy 
WASHINGTON AP-Secretary of 
gate Military force" in Africa by

State Henry A. Kissinger said 
the Soviet Union. he said. 

Thursday presidential election 
This was a reference to teh 

campaigns tend to inhibit major 
13,000 Cuban troops that defeated 

American Diplomatic initiatives but 
pro-Western factions in Angola in 

that Russia carries the main burden 
the last year.

for the deterioration of detente. 
Kissinger said that a new move 

"It is clear when there are so 
toward improved Washingtn-Mos­

many candidates in the field there 
cow relations will depend on with­

is a temptation to defer dramatic 
drawal of the Cuban from Angola

moves" until after the election. he 
and restraint bv the Russians in 
said. 
interfering in iniernal African mat­

Kissinger spoke at a news con­
ters. 

ference that dealt mainly with 
The secretary urged that nego­

U.S.-Soviet relations and the secre­
tiatinns between blacks nationalist 

tary's upcoming trip to Africa. 
leaders and the white government

While acknowledging the impact 
nf Rhodesia within I 0 eyars.

of the presidential campaign on 
K i<;singcr said he would see 

foreign policy, Kissinger at the 
leaders of the black Rhodesian 

same time denied U.S. politics ahs 
movement during hius trip. but he 

caused the obvious slowdown in the 
denied he intends to set up .. A 
detente. 
puppet regime" that would favor

L ... ·, 1·.; for the "Ugliest Man on Campus" 
The winner will be announced and awards will ·'The principal element in the 
Co·.:, .: .ontinues today in the dining halls during deterioration is the Soviet action in
be presented Saturday night at the Irish Wake. lurHh .1nd dinner. Angola." Kissinger said. Kissinger said the United States policy toward Russia follows two tracks: to resist Russian aggres­


Cuban embassy bombing kills two 
sion while still pursuing efforts to SEASON'S TOP COMEDY! HILARIOUS FUN 1 
ease tensions and insure world I.ISBON, Portugal lAP] -Dump­shutters across a busy s1x lane street outside the embassy after peace. nl ~llltlking on the doorstep in a thoroughfare. the blast. Police in full riot gear Specifically. the United States hla,·k briefcase. a bomb ripped scaled off the entrance to the still is prepared to negotiate a new
Police pointed their investiga­
thrllugh the Cuban Embassy ycst­building. Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty
tions toward the large community
nd:l\ killing a Cuban man and a Antonio Parada. a doorman at restricting offensive nuclear wea­
of refugees from Angola. many of
Cuban woman and critically injur­the building. said he saw a black pons.
\\'hom blame the Cubans for the
ing four Portuguese, officials said. imitation-leather briefcase seeping "I believe a treaty is possible
L·ivil war that caused hundreds of 
smoke just outside the embassy and desirable... the secretary said 
THe Cubans were identified as thousands of Portuguese colonists 
oftice door a minute before the adding. "I would not preclude the 
Efrain Monteagudo and Adriana to tlee the African territory. THere 
explosion. possibility of significant progress
Cocho. both employes at the emb­is a Cuban expeditionary force in 
"I ran to the phone for help," being made this year."
a~~\ but not diplomats. The Angola numbering more than I 0.­
Parada said. "I was going to throw Concerning his trip to Africa,
Portuguese government apologized ooo men. 

it the bomb out of the window, but I which starts Friday, Kissinger said 
to the Cuban ambassador. Fran­

Police and witnesses put the time didn't think there would be time. his main concern is to establish
cisco Astray Rodriguez. for the 

of the explosion at 4:45p.m.-10:45 Right when I got to the phone, the carcdibilitv in the U.S. determina­
bombing and promised a "rigorous 

a.m. EST -when offices in the bomb went off." tion to SUJ~port black majority rule
investigation.·· 

building were tilled to capacity. A few minutes earlier. Parada in the !>lib-Sahara region. The explosion at the embassy's Inside the chancery the metal said a man about 30 vears old went He said that all of the problems sixth-floor offices in a 10 story furniture was bent and twisted. to the sixth floor. ca.rrying a black in Africa should be settled by 
building in downtown Lisbon was Clogging the floors were chunks of briefcase. Africans "free of big power inter­strong enough to drive a yard-wide plaster wall and fragments of three "There have been lots of threats vention." hole in the concrete floor. cave in wooden doors. from refugees and others," Parada The United States is extremely 
two walls. and · h metal window A crowd formed on the said. concerned over the usc of "surro­


JACO PASTORILJS 
including: Come On, Come Over/Kuru/Speak Like A Child Opus Pocus/Portrait Of Tracy 
PE 33949 
Branrl-new on Epic. Jaco Pastorius blends positive creative innovation with superb technical ability. Listen to bass played the way it should be. Take notice of Jaco, a new musical pioneer in tl1e old world tradition. 

Columbia has the Records, 

mcludmg: Let It Shine! Dance Sister Dance (Baila M1 Hermana) Europa (Earth's Cry Heaven's Smile) Let Me/ Take Me W1th You 
Because of their world-wide significance, every Santana recording is eagerly antici· pated. Tt1is superb back-to-basics album is full of hard-driving Latin rhythm, rock· oriented instrumentation, exciting R & B influence and powerful new tunes. 

Weather Report/Black Market 
including: Gibraltar/Barbary Coast/Elegant People Cannon Ball/Herandnu 

Weather Report is the premier progres­sive band in the world today. They have garnered nearly every musical honor in their field, both as a unit and for their individual performances. 
AND BOOGIE HAS THE PRICES!!!!! 
IRETURN TO FOREVER ROMANTIC WARRIOR 
including: 
Medieval Overture/Sorceress 
Majestic Dance/The Magician 
Duel Of The Jester And The Tyrant 
(Part I & Part II) 
Return to Forever is among the handful of great innovators in today's progressive music. Their exciting fusion of jazz, rock, R&B and classical music is brought to a culmination on their first album for Columbia Records, entitled "Romantic Warrior." 

LP'S -f;REG. $6.98 •••••••
~ 

•••••••••• OUR PRICE JUST $4.99 

RECORDS 
255-0266 9198 COLLEGE SQUARE 

AI DiMeola, 21-year-old lead guitarist for Chick Corea's Return to Forever and win· ner of the "Best New Talent" award in this year's Guitar Player magazine poll, easily demonstrates in this beautiful al· bum why he is destined to be one of the great guitar innovators. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 

Camp~igning for Indiana primary ..,.. 
·::..:::-:;.FOrd·speaR~''fO Hoosiers 
INDIANAPOUS AP-In a muggy mllq.~e ticldhou~e last night pres­ident ford spoke to Hosiers of things they know best -basketball and farming. And from the welcome he received it wa.~ plain they got the message. 
About 14.000 persons l'rowded the Butler University fieldhouse for a ){)-minute address bv the Presi­dl•nt. followed by a qucstion-and­an,wer se~sion. 
Hi-. spced1 was interrupted by applau~e IS times as members of the audienl'e waved signs proclaim­ing "Mil'higan No.2. rord No. 1." and "Hoosier~ support a few Wolverines.·· 
Ford, an alumnus of the Univer­~itv of Michigan. joked about the Wolvnine~· loss th Indiana Uni­ver-.itv in the National Collegiate Athil'tk A~sociation basketball lin­al~ earlier this month. 
"Mid1ig;111 had an unbkmi~hcd l'l'l'ord." Ford ~aid. "It was the onh team in the country that lost three time., to Indiana." 
Looking tanned and fit. the l'tT\ident prai'>ed the American Iarmer. .,aving agricultural produc­tion has been peaking during the past few years. 
·'That was when the government left the farmer alone and let him produce without a lot of burcaucm­til' interference." he said. 
Ford promised to support farm policies he said were designed "To keep those products of hard work. love and faith." the family farm. out of the hands of government tax collectors. 
Part of the credit for successful agricultural polil·ics, Ford said, mu~t go to Secretary of Agriculture Earl Butz. former dean of agricul­ture at Purdue University. He called Butz "one of the finest public servants to come from the Hoosin state-or any state." a comment which elicited scattered boos. 
There were some light moments. A student from Evansville asked Ford whether portra~·als of him as being clumsy increased his popu­larit~ anwng avnage Americans. 
"I lwven't quite thought of it that 11 a~·." Ford replied. laughing. Tlw audience mared. 
I k said he has come to expel'! rihhinl.(. but added. "vou have to ll't it r~>ll off ~·our bark iike water of 

P.Jrt of thl' .tnxious crowd which greeted George Wallace at the Michi.m.t Rl•gion.tl Airport. (Photo by Eric jardstrom) 
George Wallace holds airport press conference 
(Continued from p.tge 1) 
til;tll tllll.,t' 11 h" rdu~c to work II Itt' II lilt'\' l'<lll t111d IIOI"k." 
lln·i111g 111 m;~kc any prL·dil'lion~ <th•HII till' upnnni11g Indiana pri­man l'lntion. Wallace said that he ht~pl'd It,· rould get as much of the \t>IL' a' Jl"~sible. 
111 rl'llt:trk' to the crowd, Wallace -..tid th;tt he wa\ glad to be in South Bend ;11nl that he ahd met many South Bend people t.wo years ago at thl' Orange Bowl in Miami. He railed Ara l'arscghian one of the litH'S! coaches he had ever met and he "(K'l'Ulatcd that he might come up and watch the Notre Dame-Ala­bama football game being played ht•rt· thb fall. 
In hi'> Indiana campaign swing yc~tndav. Wallace held press con­i'nt·m·es. in Fort Wayne. Terre llautr. Evansville, Indianapolis and l.ouis1·illc. Kentucky. 
In lndianapolb, Wallace said the lkntllLTatic Party should include in its platfnrm a proposed constitu­lion;tl amendntent making the lkath penalt~ legal. He also said that tHllllatter who is nominated at the lknHllTatic nominee, he would not ru 11 a third party. 
A'hnl about Carter's remark about pre~crving "ethnic purity," Wallace ~aid, "If I had made it no one would have forgiven me. I would haVL' been an out and out racist. But the fellow who said it. now he's apologizcd and that's good because now he's got them (the votl·rs) on both sides." 
Shop the 
100 Center 
~::;;:::::=:::=:::::::::::::::::=1 tCATF. RING 
FREE DELIVERY
KEN'S DEN t SPEt.IALL y 
ir: TO THE (with $15.00 minimum purchase.)t ND-SMC
STYLING 
HAIR --:COMMUNITY PHONE: 259-0261 '+ 
a duck's back." 
A Kokomo high school senior. who said she was going to take part in a student congress Saturday. wanted to know why the Senate Internal Securitv Committee was abolished. When Ford explaiend that it was a decision made by the Senate "and I am not a member of the Senate." the girl paused and said. "So you don't know the answer'?'' 
The President shrugged to the· amusement of the audience. 
Amtrak changes Lake Shore times 
With the change to Daylight 
Savings Time on April 25. Amtrak 
will make several changes in the 
schedule of the New York/Boston­
Chicago Lake Shore Limited. 
Operating experience over the 
past live months has sho\\ n that 
schcdult•d can be tightened in the 
Boston-Albany segment of the 
route. The April 25 schedule will 
show 20 minutes removed from the 
westbound schedule and 40 min­
utes from the eastbound. 
Westbound. department from 
Boston will he at 3 p.m .. rather 
than 2:40p.m. Intermediate station 
stop~ will be: Back Bay. J:OS p.m. 
Framingham. 3:35; Worcester. 
4:04; Springfield, 5: 12; and Pitts· 
field. o:27 p.m. Arrival in Albany 
will he the same. 9:02p.m. 
Eastbound. the Lake Shore will 
leave Alban~· as presently schedul­
ed and will arrive Boston 40 
minutes earlier. at 3:40 p.m. New 
internll'diate times are as follows: 
Pittsfield, II :45 a.m.; Springfield, 
I:00 p.m.; Worcester. 2:08 p.m.; Framingham. 2:45p.m.; and Back Bay. 3:35p.m. 
The remainder of the route will remain on the present schedule. except for Elkhart and South Bend. Ind .. which will he an hour earlier than present since Indiana docs not change to Daylight Savings Time. Eastbound, the arrival time at South Bend will be 4:04 p.m.. an additional fivC' minutes earlier. 
EQUIPMENT 
RENTAL 
$6.00DAY 
$8.00 WEEKEND 
Freeon Wednesd 

F.riday,·Apri~ 23,.1976 the obser:ver.;
. 
' 
--.:... 
-

,1 ,./ 
/ I / 
. I ;· I 
.f I 
r-1 ­
,/ I 
----..._,__ 

WE DON'T GET NO RESPECT. Expressing his re.tl feelings, .t loyal n•.1der gr.ths one issut' and throws the rest on the floor. 
SUNDAY MASSES (Main Church) 
5:15 p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
10 :45 a.m. Sunday Rev. Leonard N. Banas, C.S.C. 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
Evensong will be at 4:30p.m. in Lady Chapel. 
il: il: 

NOW OFFERING 10 ~ 15%
il: il: il: 

DISCOUNTS ON
il: 

il: CASES OF WINE/liQUOR.
t 
t 

il: HOURS: 
~ 

MON-SAT 
~ 

9:30-MIDNIGHT 
il: 

••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••+••••• 
t ++++++++++++++++++ 
•• ...J.J 
• ::;: • 
0 
'f) 
• ;.....J 
·~ 

• ·~ 'v ® ·~ 
Budweiser® 
~ eagleJ~orit1~ 
100 CENTER COMPLEX 


BUSCH® MICHELOB. A&Eagle 

··~ 
·~ 
any regularOFF priced item
.·~ ~ 
with this ad. 
(a'

+co 

.... f!?-·. ········--· .. ~ .... -........ -·--·· ._.__ -_-_._.._._ ... ~ -·-·~·-·-·----·--..·-·.:_·_-_.. .._.._-__ .._.._._ .. _._._._~ ~ ·_·_·
::--­
----------%tli~.Qg,~~r,ver 
Founded November 3. 1966 The Observer" publ"ht•d b~-studt•nh ot the Untver"t~ ot NotrP D.HlH' .1nd EDITORIAL BOARD '>t '1.\.Jr\ , CoiiPf,W It dot•' not ne<e",mll rPtlt>tt thP poltllt"• ot Pttht•r 
l htllll~l ... l) "t•ll I dttor· 1r1 Chtt·l
""''turton Tht• nPv.\" reported a' a<<LHdtt•lv Jn<J obwcttvt'l~ a., po"thle 
,\.1ttf1tlglng f d1tor

1 dttnn.rl' reprt''<'rll tht• optnton ot d ll1diOrtt\ or tht' f dttonal Boar<t ll.tn "·"" ht•/ CtHmm·nt.rrtt'' .rre thP '"""'or tndtvtdu<~l t•dttor-Optnton.,_ c<~rtoon., and 
( .rt•gg B,1ng' I "'' ultlt' I dttor 
\ .tl /urbl" I "'' ut"" I dttor 1',11 H,lntltn I dtttJn.tl I dttor
r··~ul.rr 'nlunHh "'P"'" thP Vlt'W> ot thPtr author-Column '!"H P " 
,1\ .rtl.tblt· to .1ll ntt•mbt•r.. ot thP tommunttl dnd lt•ttt•r, drt' en< uuraJ,wd to ll11h .'1.\,tdt•r I"'' ultlt' New' f dttorprntlltJI<' tht· lrt't' "'Jlr"'"on ot \dr\tn~ optnton' on <ampu' 
.'1.\.turo·o·nllltHl <·.llllJil" I dttor ,'\, \,rt I I itJ~.IIl '>1 MMI ' I dttor [)ctrl Rt•Hllt'r (·up~ I dttur 
'\.t'\\.., ~K ~ Khh 1 

!1111 0 Rt•tlt'l I o•,tturt'' I dttor I rt·d Ht•rh,t '>port' f dttor '1.\.tr\ I ~.Ill Contnbut1ng I d1tor 
Friday, April 23, 1976 


'  .._._.._..._ ... -_-_..._-_~~':.··-·-·-~.:.:.: :·::·~·:·:·_·.:.·.:..· __ DOONESBURY (/T'5 liAR[) 70 813L/£VE_ T/1/){/(jH.f FOR. A /(//1/tE, I WA5 AT 71113 PINNAClE OF POWE3R., T/113 CHAIRMAN'S FI/IR.-HAI/?£0 BOY! I HA{) IT AU.. ANO THEN•. /  ._._.._-_-::--_-_-_------; ~---­'·)Jy Garry Trudeau , HE'5 8LAM!Nr7 /TONTI-IE POOR SAP..M£0/A. II 

P.O.BoxQ 
Fairness vs. Appeasement 
Dear Editor: 
A concerted effort on the part of 
a few students. who have been 
referred to in recent articles as the 
"student body." have with a great 
deal of success discredited the 
Notre Dame cheerleading squad. 
The time has come to lay a few 
facts on the table. 
A small group of people began 
the dispute as soon as the final 
tryouts were over. (i.e. a copy of 
the cheerleading constitution was 
obtained at 3 a.m. Saturday morn­
ing, April 10.) Loopholes in the 
new. first-ever, month-old cheer­
leading constitution were groped 
for. That ~onstitution. as a culmina­
tion of a year-long attempt. 
established general guidelines for a 
fair, standardized. point-system 
tryout procedure. Only two years 
ago "tryouts" were held entirely 
behind closed doors. without a 
point-merit system. without out­
side judges. E;\erything was a 
thumbs-up-thumbs-down proced­
ure. yet that system was never 
questioned. A year ago. we were 
the ones who tried to institute a 
standard point-system procedure. 
To our dismay, it could not be 
defended then 'and can not be now. 
This year, we can defend our tryout 
procedure. We are proud of it, it 
was fair. 
Our constitution provided guide­
lines for an evolving system. The 
fairness of this year's tryouts, their 
constitutionality, is not the real 
question invol~ed. The so-called 
moral and ethical violations as cited 
by thi.., group. are only a facade, an 
attempt to change the results of the 
tryouts. This is the problem, not a 
problem of fairness or constitution­
alit~·. 
We feel that the actions of the administrative figures, calling for two additional squad members. are at best deplorable. Their answer to 

lf ONLY I'D LEARNED fO SMI ~E WHEN 1 <;AID 'eTHNIC ?URIT(. 
I 

seriously, folks~~~~!!!!!!!!! 
The God Factor 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-art buchwald 
WASHINGTON--lt was probably people to think that he was really accidental, but God has become an closer to God. But we never had issue in the presidential elections. anything to do with the prayer Jimmy Carter. who is now known breakfa~t~. The White House as a "front-runner." has admitted selected the preachers and also to ha1·ing a very close relationship invited the guests. It became a to God. political event. God hates political 
L'n·nts and never goes to them if Thi~ could force other candidates HL' can pn~..,ibly avoid it." 
to a~~ure the American people they han· a closer relationship with "But almost every fund-raising Gnd. and the media might demand e\t'nt and every political rally is 
full disclosure from everyone run­opened by a prayer from a priest, a ning on both the Republican and minister or a rabbi depending on Democratic sides as to where they which state the affair is being held 
stand on the God issue. 

in. What does God do about that?" "Everyone running for publicI must admit that although I've office has a priest. a minister and a tried on many occasions to have an rabbi trying to intercede for him. If interview with God I've never God had to listen to every one of 
succeeded. But I was fortunate to these entreaties He wouldnt't gethave a conver~ation with the Angel anything done. We up here Gabriel. who is God's director of assume that the prayers are more communications. 
for the audience's benefit than for Gabriel told rrie, "Despite what God's." you read in. the newspapers and see on television God is staying out of 
"I know this is a tough question,the presidential primaries." 
but does Jimmy Carter have a more per~nnal relationship with God"Does He have any favorites?" I than anv of the other candidates?"

asked. 
"We. never comment on God's''He considers them all good 

rclation~hips with any of His 

men who He is sure would lead the believers. In God"s eves they are eou ntry toward prosperity. happi­all His children. and it ·is His desire ness and love.'· 
that the best man wins." 

"Has God always stayed out of "Angel Gabriel. has God been inAmerican polifics?" 
touch with President Ford since his"Yes, He has. There have been defeat in the North Carolina pri­some supporters of presidential mary?"

candidates who have claimed that "No comment."
their man is closer to God than any of the opponents, but we have "Once the Americans selectnever authorized anyone to make their President. will God supportthis claim. God feels whomever the ?"
h. 
rm.

American people want to elect is "He has always supported thetheir own business. All He asks is President of the United States. Butif things don't turn out as they were at the same time He can't beexpected, that the voters don't responsible for all the decisions ablame Him.'' 
President makes. Americans have a tendency to blame everything

I asked the Angel Gabriel if this 
had happened in the past. that goes wrong in the world on God. But He never gets credit
"It happens all the time," when things go right.''
Gabriel replied. "If you recall. President Nixon held all those prayer breakfasts in the White "And this upsets Him?" House. He wanted the American "He has feelings. too." 
the problem is appeasement. If. in 
fact. the fairness or constitutional­
ity of the tryout procedure was in 
question. then the whole system 
should have been either denounced 
or upheld. By their action. they 
have intensified our feelings that 
the question of fairness and consti­
tutionality were indeed only a 
facade. 

It is a shame that the Student 
Activities administration have sac­
rificed the integrity and hard work 
of an established club for ap­
peasement of a small minority 
pressure group. We. the under­
signed, have dedicated ourselves to 
the establishment of a fair point 
system procedure. 
Nonetheless. the dictates of the 
university officials shall be adhered 
to by the 1976-77 squad. From the 
number-two squad in the nation, 
we feel the people chosen have the 
talent and perseverance to become 
the number -one squad in the 
country. How about some support 
for all of next year's cheerleading 
squad?! 

Mary Ann Grabavoy Sally Naxera Hank Carrico Pat Murphy George McLaughlin Amy McDonald Becky Bracken 
Minority Tokenism 
Dear Editor: 
The proposed settlement of the 
cbeerleading dispute which allows 
for the selection of two more 
cheerleaders is a farce. 
The controversy started when 
Jova DeFoor who was a cheer­
le~der last year failed to make the 
squad. Miss DeFoor is black and 
after she failed to make the squad 
protests arose which, in effect, 
stated that the selection process 
was biased since no black judges 
were present on the selection -committee. 
Now, all of a sudden, we have a reversal of policy which will allow for the selection of two more cheerleaders. I would like to venture two guesses as to what the outcome of the new selections will be. First of all. the new selection committee will have at least two black judges on it. Secondly. the new female cheerleading position will go to a black. most probably Miss DeFoor. 
These actions indicate wrong­doings by two parties. First, some blacks here at the University have decided to abuse their minority status and cry discrimination whe­never they don't get their way. 
Secondly. and more importantly. the University's policy of minority tokenism stands out glaringly. The University has overreacted to the possibility that the charge of discrimination may be raised agai­nst it and has rushed to create new positions to calm the angry minor­ity before adverse publicity tarn­ishes its image of a Christian University. 
In conclusion, I would like to admit that I do know of allegations which would indicate that the original process of selection may have been unfair. Yet I do not see why what has happened should require the installation of new cheerleading positions. Rather. if the original process is proved to have been unfair then all the original selections should be voided and the cheerleading squad reapp­ointed. 
Jorge A. Ferreiro 
Appearance vs. Reality 
Dear Editor: 
Not nnh did Rocky Bleier ''ap· pear to ~peak and receive a pla4ue" (emphasis added). as al­leged on the front page of The Obscn cr. he in reality did so speak and ~o receive. And at such an appropriate time of year. Hosan­nall! 
Gregory Marshall 
Nicholas Talarico 

This supplement's purpose is to examine the function and relationship to Notre Dame that several campus publications and press services have. 
-


------~---------~---~ 
Information Services 
by Gregg Bangs J. J. Kane (left) and Dick Conklin (right) Exeeutive Editor are two of the four full-time profession­als working in the Information Services. 
Did you ever wonder who was responsi­given at Notre Dame. 

ble for the weekly calendar at Notre Dame? 
To compensate for the suspension of the Or who was in charge of the campus tours? 
open mailing system, a "Notre Dame News Or who supervised the seemingly endless 
Line" was established two years ago. The amount of publications sent out to mem­"News Line" is a taped recording of the 
bers of the Notre Dame community? 
more general events on the calendar. "JayThe sources of the calendar, publications .1. (Kane) makes the tape and it runs from and tours arc all in the small group of two to three minutes," Conklin stated. 
offices on the second noor of the Admini­
"We can't get all things on it, but we try to stration Building where the staff of Notre 
get as much on as possible. People have to Information Services operates. 
be a little patient to hear the whole thing," he commented. The number for the news 
Hichard W. Conklin, director of the line is 283-2211. 

information services, supervises the press 
Conklin is also in charge of campusrelations of the university and many of its The arc conducted
tours. tours bypublications with a staff of less than ten 
students. "We depend on student people. "We have four professional 
volunteers. They get no compensationpeople, including myself, three and one­
whatsoever except for a luncheon at the half non-professionals (one person works end of the year," Conklin explained.
only part-time) and two students," Conklin summer we
"However, during the have said in a recent interview. 
two students working full-time. They work The professionals working under Conklin eight hours a day, six days a week and include: Jay J. Kane and Diane Wilson, 
every other Sunday," he said. To go along both assistant din•ctors; and Director of with the tours, the office compiles a fact Photography Bruce Harlan. 
sheet, a guide and a map of the campus.
Information service's most well known 

Although the publications and printingfunction is probably the handling of the 
department was separated from the infor­non-sport press relations of the university. 
mation services three years ago, Conklin's Thi-., would include activities ranging from 
office still has a large role in the publishingwriting press releases on subjects such as of the university's various magazines,incoming spt•akers and faculty awards to reports, newsletters and bulletins. Notre setting up the press section for the Jimmy Dame seems to have a publication for every Carter visit to Notre Dame. Conklin, as 
constituency of the university, from par­dircl'lor of the services, tincts his role in the 
ents to alumni to non-professional staff press relations a large one. "I am the members. As a matter of fact, they do. spokc..,man for the University in dealing 
"We try to develop publications for with the press," he said. 
particular audiences for particular purpos­
Another service performed by Conklin's es," Conklin said in reference to the office is the compilation of a week's diversification of his publications. "A activities into a weekly calendar. Over faculty member is going to have different I,JOO copies of the brown-and orange­interests than a non-professional staff trimmed calendar arc circulated over the member. For example, a non-staff 
campus by the office. "We used to send it member would not care to read the minutes out to anybody who wanted it for free," of a faculty senate meeting. Therefore, we Conklin recounted, "hut it got to be a have different publications for each burden on the budget. This was back when group,'' he commented. mailing costs were only eight cents, so you Notre Dame Report was established for can imagine what the total cost would be the faculty in 1971 at the request of 
now,'' he added. The only copies that go incoming university provost Fr. James off-campus are to libraries and companies Burtchacll. "The purpose was to establish such as Miles Laboratories, which would a university gazette patterned after similar 
have an interest in the technical lectures (Continued on page 10) 


I i 
I~ '.' 
I· t,l 
>'; 


The press at ND 
Notre Dame Magazine 

by Barbara Breitenstein Senior Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame Magazine is the only source of contact with the University for almost 76,000 people, and may be the only one for most Notre Dame students after gradua­tion. 
Notre Dame Magazine is Notre Dame's alumni magazine, published five times yearly by the Printing and Publications oftice and distributed without charge to 76,000 alumni and "friends" of the U nivcrsity, including parents of current students. 
·'The magazine is an extension of the classroom," its editor, Ronald R. Parent, explained."Our primary area is alumni and we get into all kinds of different subjects, thoughts and ideas to give them something to think about and discuss." 
"Our readers are educated people," Parent continued, "and we arc obliged to give them something of substance. It has to be interesting and informative and entertaining.'' 
Notre Dame Magazine developed out of two previous magazines which were pub­lished by the office of Information Services. ND Alumnus dealt with alumni news and activities, while Insight dealt with the "broader interests" of the University at large. Mainly for economic reasons, the two magazines were merged in February, 1972, as Notre Dame Magazine. "What we came up with is different from either of the other two," Parent, the magazine's only editor, commented. 
What they "came up with" in only three years has been cited by Newsweek for excellence in relating an institution to public affairs, has been ranked in the top ten percent of alumni magazines every year and has been rated "excellent" or "good" by 87% of alumni surveyed on the magazine. 
In the 18 issues so far, Notre Dame Magazine has explored such topics as "The American Christian Family," "In­tercollegiate Sports," "Yesterday's Acti­vists," and, most recently, "The Church Today: Learning to Live with Change." It also includes sections on Notre Dame and alumni club news, photo essays, "class notes,'', and ·short features on ''Notre Notre Dame MagMine, edited by Ron Parent, has been rated "excellent" or "good" by 87 percent of alumni re­sponding to a recent survey. 
Dame people." 
"Its function is as an institutional magazine through which we try to delin­eate or portray what Notre Dame is all about," stated James E. Murphy, assistant vice-president for Public Relations and Development. "At the same time it acts as our principle channel of communication to our 50,000 alumni. Notre Dame Magazine is the only thing received by the entire group," he said. 
"The alumni arc a tough group to communicate with," Parent agreed. "We act as a kind of continuing education for them, so we get into more serious things. I find we write on a wide range of subjects." 
"All kinds of people" arc involved in writing the magazine, including alumni. faculty, and guest contributors from out­side the university, but the majority of the work is done by the Printing and Publica­tions staff. 
The magazine is puhlisht•d in coopera­tion with the Alumni Association anti Information Services, from which Printing and Publications separated in January 1974. Printing and Publications now handles all publications for the University, about $1 million worth of business each year. 
Besides Notre Dame Magazine. the department prints the Notre Dame Report, admissions literature, nine college cata­logs, du Lac student manual, commence­ment materials and football programs, and is also responsible for photocopying and duplicating. 
"We do anything produced by the University," Parent said. "The only thing we don't do is the student publications. Occasionally, we pick up stories from student publications or ask students to do editorial work for us. Students may find things of interest in the magazine, but it is aimed toward alumni." 
Only extra copies of the magazine, placed in LaFortune arc available for current students. "Its general interest appeal is just about everyone, but it is primarily an alumni magazine. We have to draw the line somewhere." 
(Continued on page 10) 


-~------------~--~ 

Campus 
,Press 
by Patrick Cole Senior Staff Reporter 

Where do those posters come from all over the walls in your dorm? 
Most of the -posters that publicize campus events. lectures or anything of interest at Notre Dame come from the campus press located in the basement of the LaFortune Student Center. 
The Campus Press. a student-operated fu net ion. is a division of the Student Union. 
Their responsibility is the printing of posters. business cards. and tickets. "All employees arc students and they receive salaries." stated Andy Bury. manager of Campus Press. "Also we print the Business Review, the An Tostal Booklet and stationer~·." 
Funds and profits 

Last semester, the Campus Press gros­sed $9,000 for printing. "In previous ?'ca_rs, we received about $8,000." Bury 111d1catcd. ''This semester, we will receive about the same but our profit for the past semester was I 7 percent.'' 

I 
J 

.. ,.,. ·~ 
I 

I 
lr 
I 
Andy Bury using the new 143 Platemaker. 
Charges for printing are based on the 
type of service requested, according to 
Bury. "We charge by the line of print if we 
have to set up and design the poster." he 
smd. B~ry revealed that there is a charge 
for makmg a plate at a fixed cost. Also 
there is a charge for the impression. 
Paper costs is another variable cost in 
the printing services offered. "We have to 
purch_ase paper on which to print." Bury 
~xplamed. "Also if the item to be printed 
IS camera ready. there is no extra charge,'' 
he added. 
There is an additional charge for various 
colors used to print the poster. 
The Campus Press allows posters to be 
printed on credit for residence halls or 
organizations. "But for any others re­
questing posters, they must make pay­
ments in cash," Bury said. "The Student 
Union, _ho_wever, h~ not directly charged for 
any prmtmg scrv1ces. Their charges are 
reflected by adjustment in the Student 
Union account made by the comptroller." 
Ninety-five percent of the printing done 
by the Campus Press is done for the 
Student Union or Student Government. 
Machines used 
Bury indicated that Campus Press has 
two main presses. There is a 143 
platemaker. a compugraphic headliner 
with 16 different fonts. also a ditto 
machine. mimeograph machine and a 
folding machine. "We don't use a camera 
or plate burner," Bury stated. 
Bury continued, "The Campus Press started out as a letter press, but in 1970 it became an off-set press. The letter press used lead-type processing. The off-set ~etho~ is photographic and an impression IS obtamed which is very minute. 
Bu~y stated that the Campus Press functwns as a convenience for the stu­dents. "We want to operate as a service to the students in order to print materials at a reasonable cost," he said. "We don't want to force students to go off campus or to the Ave Maria Press. We are the least expensive place for printing charges on campus." 
TheCampu~ Press operates from I p.m. to 5 p.m. on Monday through Friday . 
joe Bury (below) using the Compugraphic headliner machine. Sue (left), a campus press secretary. 
Dome 
by Val Zurblis Executive Editor 
Compiling a whole year at Notre Dame and presenting it in creative way is quite a challenge for anyone, but Lisa , loorc is more than willing to tackle the tough job ahead. 
Not a history book, next year's Dome 
editor describes a yearbook as giving the 
nme months we arc at Notre Dame a kind 
of direction and reflecting some kind of 
unity throughout the· year. "After all. we 
all know what happens during the year, 
and the yearbook should be more creative 
and subjective," Moore comments. "The 
i?eal ycarb(~ok should reflect the subjective 
feelings ot everyone on the editorial 
board." 

Be_causc _of these beliefs, the junior E_nghsh maJor plans to do things a bit d1ff~rent ~e.x~ year. She is returning to the sectwn d1v1s10ns and dropping the past ~hronol_ogicallayout of the book. Also, by mcreasmg the number of sections she will expand the editorial board. "I feel the more points of view you have, the truer the finished product will be. "she remarks. 
Looking back. the Dome has been published every year since 1906 except during World Wars I and II when most Notre Dame students were in the armed forces. The first Dome editor was Charles O'Donnell from Greenfield, Indiana. He later went on to become a poet, a priest and president of Notre Dame from 1928-1934. 
Moore is the third woman in a row tolwld the post of Editor-in-Chief of the Dome. 
Above, the first DOME. Below a simulation of the forth-coming DOME '7b. 
DOME ~76 
Last year Susan Darin. a senior American studies major, headed the book and presently Dana Nahlen. a junior major in sociology. is in charge. 
The Dome has won many awards in its seventy years of existence. In 1964 it won the best yearbook in Indiana. and the 1974 yearbook was rated first in photography and faculty presentation by the Indiana Collegiate Press Association. Last year's book ranked third nationally. 
This year Moore wants the yearbook to be more creative and expressive than journalistic which some yearbooks tend to be. She plans to be more flexible in laying out the book. "For instance, if I get a picture that is good and says something about the. life here, it is reason enough to use it in the book even if it wasn't planneu. ·· 
To get away from the history-type book. 
Moore is not planning an opening section 
but free layout between the sections to tie 
the whole book together. ''The yearbook 
should work toward painting a picture of 
the year. We build up that little by 
little, but we don't know what the end is 
until we get there. It is really hard," 
Moore explains. 
LISA MOORE 


On the top floor of LaFortune, where the student publications have their offices this wom,\11 also has lwr office. Mary Louis<' Brown, a living legend among the students, has been Director of Student Publications since 1<Jb8. Over the years hl•r duties have evolved from handling business matters for all student publica­tions on campus to helping out business managNs of the only the Donw, St hoias­
Ill and lu>-'glt'l · · 1 h,lVl' t•njoyed my involvement with the student<; and have acquired many friencbhips," says Ms. Brown. 

• 
: 
·-~ ...~ ...~ 
"-........... .
I. 


Scholastic 
bJ Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor 

"Notre Dame is a culture and it is the Scholastic's role to explore that culture," explains the magazine's incoming editor .John Phelan. "We examine the University and what concerns it, raising questions and casting light on unusual angles." 
Phelan labels the Scholastic as a "features magazine." Some of the articles are intended to be primarily entertaining: pieces which arc humorous or fictional or which look at a familiar someone or something frnm an unfamiliar perspective. 
Other articles. especially news and opinion pieces. arc intended to raise questions in the readers' minds. "We do not wish to simply report what has happened." Phelan said. "We concen­trate on reconsidering an event from some special point of view which will lead to a 
SCHOLASTIC 
.... 
'I· 

This supplement was conceived by Gregg B. Bangs, designed by Chris Smith, written by the various authors and produced with the invaluable assistance 
of Frank Kebe, Eric Jardstrom (photographer) and Dan Sanchez. 
Tech Review Business Review Science .Quarterly 
bv Barbara Breitenstein Senior Staff Reporter 
Three student publications which may not be vcrv well-known on the Notre Dame campus bt~t which provide a different type of information are those magazines pub­lished each year for students in the college-. of Business Administration, En­gineering and Science. 
These Magazines, The Notre Dame Business Review, The Tech Review and the Science QuarteriJ, offer students an up­date on what is going on in their particular field. both within and outside the Univer­sity. 
The Notre Dame Business Review , 
which is published twice yearly, is intend­
ed to expose business students to things 
not covered in the Business curriculum, 
according to Editor Dan Cofall. 
"We try to give the students a different outlook on things," Cofall stated. In an attempt to offer this new outlook. the magazine this year has included not only , articles by students and faculty in the college, but from outside the university as 
well. 

Begun in the fall of !966 and financed by 
the college, the Review's original purpose 
was to publish only student articles. This 
year however, the student-run magazine 
included articles written by the president 
of CBS, the head of an outdoor advertising 
firm, and the Teamster's Union. 
The Tech Review, which is published by 
students in the College of Engineering four 
times yearly, focuses primarily on engine­
ering activities on campus. 
"There is a wide variety of things going 
on in engineering here," Frank Murray, 
business manager of the Review, stated. 
The Tech Review includes mostly articles 
on undergraduate research and depart­
ment notes and other university-oriented better understanding of the matter, or at least a better understanding of the question.'' 
On the final page of each issue the ''Last Word" appears. This is the editor-in­chief's personal soap· box. "He can use it to draw attention to unnoted OL.L'UITL'nl'L''> which he finds important or he can reflect on some previously reported situation," Phelan said. 
The Scholastic "is in d'fcl'l totally dependent on the University for fin­ancing," he explained. About 98-99% of the magazine's funding comes from a University subsidy and the amount of revenue received from advertisements is sent to the University general fund. 
This dependence docs leave the maga­zine vulncrabkto budget cuts. In fact the budget was cut from $60,000 to $25,000 over a three year period in the late sixties and early seventies. It has now been raised to about $40,000 for next year. "Although we arc financially dependent on the University we do not have to fear reprisals if we criticize the administration as long as we run an interesting and respectable magazine," commented Phelan. "We arc not flaming radicals anyway.'· 
Phelan has several plans to improve the magazine during his term in ofticc. "We should, for instance, take a more personal approach to sports reporting-concentrate on individual athletes and ask why they arc doing what they are doing and what it is like." The Scholastic may drop its annual Football review and do a review of three major sports: football, basketball and hockey. "We would go for an overall view of the tone of the year rather than blow-by-blow stories on each game." 
In the news department Phelan wishes to strengthen the emphasis on stories which look at things from an unusual angle. He hopes to see more unified issues built 
1 
I 

NOl'RE DAME SCIENCE QUARHIU Y I 

news. but occasionally includes articles on engineering devclop~1ents outside Notre Dame. 
The Science QuarteriJ was started in · 19b2 by undergraduates to expres!> things 
about their major and was purl'ly for the College of Science, according to Lin·!~ Baranko, this year's editor. The magat.inc was originally very technicallv oriented but has taken a more philosophical and ; historical slant toward science in the past ' few vears. 
"it's more readable now," 13arankn commented. "We not only include articles on work done by professors and articles written by undergraduates on their particu­lar interest in science, but we also include articles written by students in other colleges, such as one written by a general program student about the history and philosophy of science," he explained. 
The Quarterly, which is published by science students, is distributed to 2000 science majors four times a year. 
around broad theme~ slll·h as hm1 Notre Dame student>. expre~s themseht·~. 
The St·hola!>tic acts as a product ion consultant and loi.lns facilitie~ to thl' Juggler and the Technkal Rc1·iew. But Phclaiil't\ll!ljl.!t;r.sits most important rl'lation to another campus medium to be its 
L'Onne,·tion Ill the Observer. 
"I 1·iL'W the rolL'\ of the Sl'l10lastk and Observer as compll'llll'ntary... he said. The paper reports the daily IIL'WS. S<llllL'· thing which. because of our bi-wcl'klv schedule. we could 11ot do even if we wished. We trv to sit back and recoiisidt'l' things in a hmger view. more like Atla11tk Monthly and the New Yorker than. say. Time. There is some OVL'ri<IJl with the papL•r's editorial and feature, page. but thev work 011 a shorter-term basis.'· 
1>helan agreed that the Sdwlastk had difficulty adjusting in the late llJoO's to the adH'III of the Observer but kt·l~ that the two are in a comfortable rclati<ln no11·. We h.td some big shocks in giving up the reporting of current news--smncthing liT had a mmHlpoly on before I Llhb--and becoming a biweekly, rdlcetive jnurnal. Hut by now we have found our nil' he." 
' 
1 .. 
~ 
'' 


" 


by Don Reimer Cop.' Editor 
"I : major .duty of the Sports Informa­tion · >cpartment is to act as a liason hctw• .·n the athll'tic department and the media.·' according to Bob Best, assistant director of Sports Information. And at a school that holds the national athletic reputation of Notre Damc.this duty is quite extensive. 
Notre Dame differs from many other universities in that people across the nation arc interested in its athletic fortunes. Because of the greater demand for inf<>rtllation about Notre Dame, Best explained, the primary job of the Sports information department is to supply infor­mation to hoth the media and the general public. rather than to create publicity and "sell" the University's sports programs. 
A -;taff of 12 people, including eight student assistants. writes press releases, gat/1cr~ statistics. produces three press guidL·~ and arrange~ tor media accomada­tion' during major ND sporting events. Besi!lo.>s these major dutics.the staff must take vare of numerous minute details all c11nn' dcd with properly publicizing Notre Danll' athletics. 
The development of the Notre Dame basketball television network. engineered b\ SJ,nrts Information Director Roger Val­di"'lTt in what Best called "quite a .coup." ha~ :;reatly enhanced Notre Dame's na­tion;;! following. Best explained that Vald·. 'ari had worked for several years to get :--.D games televised on a regional SL'ak. hut last vear thev went coast to coa~t. making N~tre Dame the only college with -.uch extensive exposure. 
Notre Dame's extensive national athletic reputation does, l,owevcr. cause problems for the Sports Information department. 
"Notre Dame has prominence athlcti­callv because of tradition, and as a result the·media wants to be part of us,'' stated Best. "Also. there are people just waiting for Notre Dame to make a mistake. At the first instance they blow things out of proportion.' ' 
"Someone has to point out the truth to people, .. said Best, "and ND has many fallacies writ ten about it.'' Thus. the Sports [nformation department gets the job of 
'straightening people out." 
One of Best's primary jobs and one of :he most visible products of the depart­ment are the three major press guides produced for football. basketball and hockey each year. 
While the guides are designed primarily for use by the media. they must also appeal to the public who purchases them at games throughout the season. Into the books go statistics, r9cords, interesting items about the coaches and players and anything else that might be helpful to the TV, radio and newspaper correspondents who rely on them. 

At games and immediately before them the Sports Information department has many tasks to perform. Credentials and motel accomadations must be arranged for the massive press corps. the press box must be set-up with typewriters and telecopiers and often interviews with players must be arranged. On the day of a football game, for instance, Best and Valdesari arc usually in the press box from 9 a.m. until the last writer leaves which is sometimes as late as 8 or 9 p.m.. answering questions and hosting the visiting press. 
According to Best one of the most important parts of the Sports Information department is the student assistants. "It would be impossible for us to do our job without their assistance," stated Best, who oversees their work. 
Because of the great number of varsity sports at Notre Dame the help of the eight students is vital. There is one student assigned to each sport who covers all the games and writes weekly releases. The students also do much of the writing and compiling of statisties for the publications. 
A vital part of Sports Information's job involves maintaining a close relationship with the players and coaches. "It is vital that we know the players and coaches we are publicizing," said Best. 
"We maintain super rapport with the coaches because we must know about the team. We talk to the coaches and find out the latest on the team," Best explained. 
In the Spring and Fall each of the top players on the various teams is brought up to the Sports Information office for an interview so that the staff can get to know them. "We look for unusual items that distinguish each player," said Best. Each week during the season, then, a feature un one of the players is sent to the media in the area in which the team will plav. 
Notre Dame hosted over 100 media representatives at the recent NCAA tour­nament round held in the ACC and had to turn nearly SO more away for lack of room. Four foreign teams came in for the games and it was the responsibility of Sports Information to be sure that the writers were well informed about each of them, explained Best. And in order to do this. they themselves had to be very familiar with the teams. 
,~).Ave
. .· 

Maria Press 
by Marianne Schulte Senior Staff Reporter 
Somewhere on the barren Tundra of the Extreme North Quad, flanked by the graceful landmarks of the garbage incin­erator smokestacks and the unobtrusive turquoise water tower, is the Ave Maria Press. Located in a modest yellow brick building next to the fire station, the Ave Maria Press publishes and prints the greater part of the literary material evolving from the faculty, administration and students of the university. 
The Ave Maria Press is not a university operation, although its offices and facilities are located in their entirety on the Notre Dame campus. Not registered as a legal corporation, it remains a ,province of the Priests of the Holy Cross, with its line of authority directed to the same. 
Printing its three largest accounts of The Notre Dame Magazine, The Scholastic, and Notre Dame Football Programs, the Ave Maria Press is able to maintain its great volume of printing through in-house printing services. 
Founded in May of 1865 when it published its first magazine; the Ave Maria Press is a publishing house in its own right, operating a self-owned printing plant located on the same premises. In managing the combined functions of publishing and printing, the Ave Maria Press services the needs of the university and religious community, by providing professional press services in the most convenient. least expensive· and quickest manner available. 
According to Father John L. Reedy, publisher of the Ave Maria Press, three years ago the university and the Press brought in outside specialists to examine 
..,,... 
' 

FR. JOHN REEDY 
the university needs in printing and publishing. 
"Results of the study indicated that we were providing the university with the least expensive and most convenient service possible," Reedy explained. "By offering the best overall package available, the community's needs are answered locally, avoiding the problems of taking the business to Chicago or much further to fulfill their printing and publishing needs. 
Eighty thousand copies of the Notre Dame Magazine are printed every month by the Ave Maria Press. The second largest account is the Scholastic, which publishes bi-monthly. All Notre Dame football programs arc also a product of the service. The Press is also concerned with the printing of several academic bulletins. 
Due to lack of newsprint operational equipment, the Observer account is not handled by the Press. 
With an extensive book publishing service, Reedy claims that the Press is boasting "million dollar sales" in books 
alone this year 
Other publications include The Book Club of Spiritual Reading, an account solely responsible for a volume of one hundred thousand, and The AD Corres­pondence, a bi-weekly eight page bulletin with a circulation of five thousand. The Correspondence, with a reading public that is approximatlcy one-half religious in nature, is concerned with the trends and events in the life of the Church. 

I Information I 
Services

I 
I 
1 Continued from page 7) 

l 
I I publications at Harvard and other universi­tiL'' '' hich wnuld contain announcements and polkiL·S affecting academic enter· I pri-.., ·. " C<•nklin cxplaim:d. The Report al-.,, <>ntain~ minutes of major committees
I 
I ~u•h as the Facultv Senate and other I con ;·.·;tt<'''' that have primarily an academ­I ic pe. Major reports. faculty honors, I al'ti< i<iP~. retirements and deaths are also 
reportl'd.

I 
It ·!so took over the publications of

I 
a(h ""' cd studie~ news. That section

I 
,·onta1ns a monthlv ti,.t ohcholarlvactivities

I 
and .JI',o details ·research fundi~g alloca­

I 
,ion'

I 
"The idea was to get all the information

I 
pertii_H·n: to facultv memhers together in

I 
one puhliction so they wouldn't be burden­

I 
ed un,l,·r a pile of mimeographs. It gives a

I 
sour<·•· of efficient, official information

I 
from the usage of patents to minutes to the

I 
:.Jllivcrsity's fringe benefits on medical

I 
care." Conklin said. "lt was immediately

I 
successful with the .faculty because it is

I 
edited for and focused on the Notre Dame

I 
faculty. If a piece goes into the Report, it

I 
IJas to deal with an academic 

~ 
area of the institution or interest the

I 
faculty," he added. 

The Staff Newsletter caters to the non-academic. non-professional staff work­ers such as power plant workers, janitors, maids and dining hall workers. The personnel office edits this under the direction of University Copyreader George Scheuer. According to Conklin, the newslettcrservestwo purposes. The tirst is to serve as a vehicle for the personnel ofticc to convey messages to the staff, and secondly, it also gives a journal of "what's happening'· of interest here at Notre Dame. 
In the fall of 1973, Parents. a newsletter aimed specifically toward student's par­ents was instituted. "Although parents receive Notre Dame Magazine, they don't get a publication written for them. So once a semester, we turn out Parents newsletter to pass along information and make them feel like they belong. Conklin 
said. Like all the other publications, Parents is· geared to a specific readership and the material contained within it reflects this specialization. 
As if this was not enough, tP.n times a school year and once during the summer, a President's Newsletter is circulated to what Conklin calls an "off-campus V.I.P. readership.'' The newsletter is a synopsiz­ed account of major institutional news. With the exception of the lead article, the rest is generally g\eened from press rC'leases, according to Conklin. The circulation of 1,100 is made up of Trustees, members of the Advisory Council and heads and presidents of alumni groups. 
"The newsletter is written for the person who is very busy, but has a very close relationship with Notre Dame. It is edited to give busy people a quick, synopsized version of what happened in the last four weeks." Conklin explained. 
Conklin feels the range of publicatiuons is beneficial because it keeps various constituencies of the university informed with the news that is pertinent to their 
respective group. "I think the range· of publications, the spectrum we have is as cflicicnt as any other place I've seen,'' he remarked. In fact, Conklin has been asked at conventions he attends to speak on the range of publications Notre Dame fosters. 
He personally likes the broad range of responsibilities that his office encompas­ses. "The two best areas I've been in are the city news room and the college campus. 
To me the job that co'llhinP.s both is the best possible job," Conklin said. "The press and the university is fascinating. The administrators here have a rather sopnisticated view of the press and this promotes a healthy atmosphere to work in." 
When asked if he thought Notre Dame enjoyed a good standing with the press, Conklin replied that he thought the relationship "is rather good. There have been some bad moments," he replied, " but generally it's been a good press." 
Notre Dame Magazine 
(Continued from page 7) 
Economics also explains the quality of the magazine, according to Parent. "We have to compete," he stated. "I want people to read it, so we try to do things htat are interesting. When one considers that the published product is the only contact many people have with an institution, if an university cannot bring itself to produce a 
·magazine that it can point to with pride, it should not produce a magazine at all. A magazine that has no editorial integrity, guts, or style is a waste of money--money that is urgently needed in various pro­grams on most campuses today.'' Parent stated his ideas in Case Currents, the Council for Advancement and Support of Education Magazine. 
"I feel we have an obligation to print something that will not just lie on the coffee table and not be read," Parent concluded. The magazine is better today than it has been, but it speaks better for itself. Just look at it." 
That's what 76,000 people are doing and what current students will be doing to keep in touch with Notre Dame---looking at Notre Dame Magazine. 




-----------~ 
--------·------­
1 1 • 

Joy-·pure, simple, and unadulterated joy--is such a delicate emotion: as fragile as mended china, as gentle as a nun who glimpses heaven, as rare as the sight of butterflies nuttering over snowdrifts. It is the champgne of emotions; mere happi­ness seems dum-footed beside it. Laughter is its natural language. though all speech spoken in a joyful mood is a kind of singing and dancing. Joy is so light-hearted and effortless that all our exertions made in joy should, like MacLeish's poem. not mean, hut he. 
Twice. recently. I have been joyful, and it was not April nor daffodils nor love affairs that made me so. Plainly and \imply. joy was the mood I found myself in after a worship experience or two with a prayer group called the Charismatics. 
"Oh. God." my critics arc doubtlessly groaning. "old Griffin has joined the llanddappers." The truth is, of course, that old Griffin has not joined the handclappers. Old Griffin could conceiv­ably join the Handclappcrs; but the plain, honest fact is that old Griffin has all the faith-commitments he presently needs. But old Griftin has respected the Charismatics enough. and cherished them enough, and shared with them enough. so that he has been l'apturcd by their joy. It is something different from the joy of Bible·thumping Baptists. It is something different from the 

Friday: 
Jenny (9:00 pm/Channel 21 ): Alan Aida of MASH fame and Marlo Thomas of That Girl infamy star in this talc of a couple who get married, he because he wants to avoid the draft and she because she needs a home for the illegitimate baby she's going to have. It doesn't sound like the kind of stor\' line you would expect to sec for a TV movie. In !"act it sounds a bit absurd, but it may be good. Midnight Special (I :00 am/ 16): Hold on to your hats. Stop everything. Here comes the TV surprise of the week: Helen Reddy is not hostessing this show this week. Instead. Joan Baez and the Electric Light Orchestra join .Janis Ian. 
Saturday: 
Wide World of Sports (5:00 pm/28): One of 
the finest sports programs on television 
marks its fifteenth anniversary with a retrospective hosted by .Jim McKay. Some of the athletes featured in excerpts from past shows are A . .J. Fnyt, Muhammad Ali, Evel Knievel and .Jim Ryun. Thunderball (IUO pm/28): The bad guys have stolen two A·bombs and arc threaten­ing to hlow everyone up. Enter James 
Bond (Scan Connery), the usual retinue of lovely ladies, assorted gadgets and some stunning underwater scenes and you have a 007 movie, one of the best of the set. Mar_} Tyler Moore (4:00/22): Read this one carcfullv. Chuckles, the clown at station 
WJM w·lw has his own children's program, was marching in a parade wearing a costume that made him look like a giant peanut when he was attacked by a hungry elephant and killed. I swear I'm not making this up. At first the newsroom is shocked, but soon grief gives way to humor. Oh. I get it. 
Sunday: 
Gold (3:00 pm/ 16): The final round of the $175.000 New Orleans Open from the wet 
~ah, God,' my critics are doubtlessly groaning, ~old Griffin has joined the Handclappers.' 
The truth is, of course, that old Griffin 
has not joined the Handclappers. 
blessed comfort that follows liturgies at Christmas and Easter, though such com­fort lies at the lcart of every Catholic's faith. It is something different from the peace that follows prayer and sacraments in which we are nourished by the grace of Christ. 
To tell the truth, I might almost have resisted the joy of the Charismatics. There I was. at a meeting with tivc hundred charismatics day before yesterday, most of them singing and shouting and clapping their hands. We had just survived that rush of sound like the music of a wind blowing through a thousand tree tops as those Charismatics spoke or sang the strange languages of the gift of tongues. Then the leader said: "Let us minister to one 
the entertainment week 
and wild Lakewood Country Club. 
Monday: 
A Girl Named Sooner (7:00 pm/16): Susan Deer portrays an 8 year old illiterate backwoods girl in a 1930's Indiana town who is taken from her home and placed with a foster family. A strong supporting cast that includes Cloris Lcahman. Lee Remick and Richard Crcnna helps this sensitive TV movie, tirst shown in 1975. Go Ask Alice (10:30 pm/22): Just to show you how times have changed. watch this movie and while you do remember that when it first came. out three years ago it was a semi-controversial and important film. Now it has been relegated to the late-night niche commonly reserved for films that have lost their timeliness. This movie is an adaption of the diary of a young girl and chronicles her struggle with drug addiction. Despite having lost some of its impact on a somewhat calloused collective conscience, it is still sensitive without being pathetic. 
Wednesday: 
Orangutans: Orphans of the World (7:00 ­22): An intimate glimpse at the endanger­ed primate, hosted by Peter Ustinov. As far as I'm concerned I'd much rather have an intimate glimpse of the Bionic Woman. (After parietals, of course.) 
Thursday: 
Dying (8:00 pm/34): Once in a very long while, TV will come up with a show that deserves to be called "important." They did it with That Certain Summer and The Execution of Private Slovik, and they show signs of having done it again with this unpreviewed documentary that shows how four people and their families try to handle the fact that the four subjects are dyi'1g of terminal disease. 
on screen 
The Duchess and the Dirtwater Fox (Colfax): George Segal and Goldie Hawn play a con man and a hooker who are chased through the frontier after their plot to defraud a Mormon goes awry. 
another by a laying-on of hands." I was ready to shout to everyone near me: "Keep away; keep away. Don't touch me. please." Suddenly a young woman gras­ped my right hand, and a young man seized my left hand; a third hand was laid on my shoulder from behind. It seemed silly to insist on freeing myself; and immediately, without even choosing, I became one in mood and spirit with that praying, singin crowd. I was singing and praying along with them. The resistance and prejudices I had been building up inside me seemed merely foolish; where before I had seen only vulgarity in the postures and expressions of people at prayer, I was now seeing beauty and feeling joy. Over and over, those Charis­matics sang, "Alleluia, Alleluia" and 
The Bad News Bears (River Park): This highly-acclaimed comedy concerns a little league manager with a fondness for boilermakers (Walter Matthau). a spitball· throwing tomboy (Tatum O'Neill) and the Bad News Bears, a hopelessly incompetent band of little leaguers. 
Vegetable buddies (129 N. Michigan) The new nightclub in town. featuring blues and jazz close to the audience. This weekend Joe Willie Williams and the King Biscuit Boys, followed by Russ Hunt on Wednes­day and the N.D. Jazz Combo on Thursday. 
South  Bend  Symphony  (Saturday,  8:00  
p.m., Morris Civic Auditorium)  
Creative  Musicians  Club  (Franklin  and  

Calvert): Billed as the " #I exotic attraction in America" it supposedly highlights the singing, dancing and similar talents of Ann Marie, whose measure· ments are 67-25-36. No further explana­tion needed. 

The WSND Album Hour (Midnight) 
Monday: Rahsaan Roland Kirk-The Return o[ the 5000 Pound Man Tuesday: Joe Walsh-You Can't Argue with a Sick Mind Wednesday: to be announced Thursday: Leon and Mary Russell-The Wedding Album 
JOKES WANTED 
Give Notre Dame something to laugh about , just before finals. 
• 

Send all jokes(except those blatantly obscene), to the features editor 
P.O. Box Q, • or leave at the obseruer office 

•· Abba, Father, Abba, Father" and "Jesus is Lord, Jesus is Lord". and I sang along with them, a captive, seemingly, to grace and the Holy Spirit. 
Believe it or not, I am peculiarly Spirit-proff and grace-resistant. I have seen through the sham pieties. I tell myself. of a hundred prayer meetin.,:s and two hundred crusades for Christ. l have sneered at Jesus-freaks, resisted evangel­ists. and made fun of Billy Graham. I can sniff a fundamentalist a block and a half away. I can spot a Bible-thumper clear into the next county. I despise both types l'or their cheapening of the Lord Jesus Chri'l. I detest their offers of cheap salvation. tlll"ir simplistic rendering of the Word of Gnd; presuming to damn ~inncrs for rdu~ing their message, as though a loving Fathl"r could prepare everlasting bontircs for the children His Son died fnr. 
I have been ovcr-cxpnscd to fundamcn· tali~t doctrine. and it has made me a bigot toward the Bibliolatrist. When in the past the Charismatic student has appeared, with New Testament in hand. to quote me citations from Corinthiansancl Acts, I have suffered from moods of deja vu. Icannot go home again. I tell myself, to the New England churches where Lamont O'Blemis played soloes of "Jesus Saves" on, his trumpet, and old Mrs. Smith prophesied the nearness of the Second Coming of Christ. 
It was a group of very decent Catholic kids that brought me back to a place like home among the Baptists...except that the crowded, charismatic prayer meeting was not like any church home I have ever known. As a matter of style, LaMont O'Blemis and old Mrs. Smith were much more reticent in their handclapping that these Charismatics; they were much less alive and much less ecstatic in their affirmation of Christ as Lord. The old-time religion, as I knew and practiced in childhood, was stodgy and arthritic com· pared to the enthusiasm of the baptized-in­the-Spirit, Charismatic Christians who imposed their joy on me through a ministry of touch on Wednesday evening. 
I shared the charismatic joy. not because I chose to or wanted to. but because. simply being there. I couldn't do anything else. I was joyful in Christ; it was a precious, precarious mood that was like b~·ing drunk except for the clear-headed· ne~s and lightheartedness. In that mood. I could have clapped hands, I could have thumped Bibles. Great God, I could have spoken in tongues, if I had had a mind to; the only thing lacking was the mind. 
It was a group of very decent Catholic kids who brought me to the experience of being joyful among the Charismatics. They seemed to be going through a vcr:v powerful religious experience. and I was afraid they would end as burn-out cases so I went to take a look. I came very close to the place where they are standing. I am not frightened for them; I am not even frightened for me. though I think it is risky to become addicted to jo~· as an clement necessary to the faith-experience. Joy has a way of making us useless for the dark and gray days that must be surviwcl; yet it is ,1 gift of the Spirit that is as ncccssarv. and as shattering, to life as falling in love. As I said before, I am not about to join the Handclappers. but I am grateful that some very special Handclappcrs have led me to the valley where they walk in joy. 
-~-----~ ~-~-­
--~----------­
1.~2~_the obse,rvt:H. Friday, Apr~l 2.3~;1,976 
w---+­

Senior trip sign-ups require $50 deposit 
IContinued from page 1) Current juniors who are inter­trative official!.. Therefore. there 
ested in the trip can sign up are 376 spots available for Notre 
starting next Tuesday at 12 noon in the LaFortune Ballroom. Registra­
Dame seniors. The committee 11llpes to charter a 
tion will be on a first come, first fnurth plane. hut will only do so if 
~l'I'Ve basis. The sign-up desk will thL'\ get a committment from those 
he open until 3 o'clock and will be pc·npk that want to go. "If the 
open at the same time for the rest tlo1"l'L' phtnc~ that we have now," nf the week. , ,plainc·d Rc·id. "aren't tilled dur· 
A $50 non-refundable deposit fee 
11ill he required from all who sign plane 11 ill ddinitdy not be char­
"'g nl'\t 11eck's ~i.l!n-up. the fourth 
up. Cash or checks payable to Nntrc Dame Class of '77 will be
tvll'<l." I11L' connnittee is warning all 
acn·ptcd. Students will also be -..[ .. :," 11' tr• to gu sign up 
rvquircd to present an identifica­
n. 1: .,, l'L'k. and not to wait until next tion c·ard to verify that they are The Senior Trip Committee discussing the how's and how-much'es of next year's senior trip. ! ::• l·••ping that there will still be ,,·nt• •r,-to-be. (Photo by Eric jardstrom) "i q, available. TheY 11ant stu­
l'he committee has stressed that '._·ceipts for the deposit cannot be be who don't want to go may pick tho..,e signing the waiting list. but Miller agreed with the authors of
kilt" :o h,· aware that it is the 

up receipts underclassmen. He thi~ monc\' will be refunded if the the letter that it is a bad time of
,,t!111l• r ,,' ~lutknh indicating next tran~krred from one student to fourth pla;1e is charter and they arc year to be asking people to pay $50 . 
.,, ·~ .1 .. 1 tltL'\ II'IWI to go that will another . This means that people 11·arns that they will be taking wlw sign up now cannot change mL·asures to prevent this. and that unable to go. If a fourth plane is but pointed out that the letter
d< .L'' tine· '' hctlter or not the 
fu, r1; pl;,nc 11ill he chartered. their mind later and sell their all\ bod~· caught doing this will lose chartered the number of available informing current junors about the 
'II tltc·1 don't ~ign up next rl'l'L'ipt to another senior. It also all the money they paid to that spots for Notre Dame seniors will fee was sent out two weeks ago. ant datL' increase to 525. that anvone who was serious about
•eel... ~alll Heicl. "they are not mean~ that a senior who is not In response to a letter to the going had time to plan ahead. He
•>nh L'opanii1.ing the possibility fo :.!lling cannot stand in and sign up Whc·n the 376 spots are tilled. for a not her who wants to go. t hl' l'<'lllmittce will start placing editor in vesterdav's Observer pointed out that there is still
..!dting tilL' lnurth plane. they are 
.\ccording to Miller. the commit­nanll·~ on a waiting list. A $50 which comJ)laincd a'bout the fact enough time left to come up with
•''Pl'L'iall~ jL·<>pardizing their own ,·hances of L:oing. tee· i~ fearful that some seniors-to-dl'P"'it will also be reyuircd from 
taht the $50 deposit will not be the money. refunded. the committee said that The committee responded to the they need the definite commitment complaint that not enough ~pots from those who want to go and that \\LT<' a\ailablc for St. Mary's 
they didn't want people dropping 'tud,·nts b\ ~aving that theY had out. The~· abo pointed the whole <""l"llltcd 11ith St. Marv's before operation will cost over $100.000 . dL·,·tdlng on giving thc.m the 1\0 
Detroit holds sale, raises funds 

and that the deposit was necessarv 'Jl''" .1nd had recci1Td no com­
DETI<OIT AP-Thc City of Detroit prt~jl·c·t,·d budget deficit of $44 pch and 600 firemen·~ helmets. 
bn·au~c thn immediately need to pl.lilll fmm them. They alsoprepared to ''ind up its "garage mi II i• 111. ThL· biggest pritc went to volun­pa1 some oi· this amount such as pnnttc·d out that the ratio of spoh is'ak.. a da1 carlv because the The merchandise. uncovered in IL'cr fireman Jo~cph Cczarz of pia nc· fare~. motel accomdations. appnl\imatel\ the ratio of the two
llllll!~rai.,ing ·crr,,rt !'or the tinancial­'l'arL·hL'' of the nooks and crannies suburban Humulus. who came a­uniH'I'~itics.
'' n··•uhkd cit\ ,,.a" so successful in cit\ government. was snapped ''"'. with hi~ own fire department. etc. 
The· L'tlmmittee said that they arethat .tlnw"t all the municipal mer­up bY eager buyers as fast as it was o~ntplcte with siren., and bells but . handJ.\L' 11 "" ..,uld. brought onto the tloor ofCobo Hall. ""engines. 
1TlJliL''ting $50 instead of a lesser . an~wunt .bccatt'c class deposits forThl' -..".000 shoppers grabbed up !term ranged from bedpans to Gay C'l·tarl.. a \·oluntccr fireman irt Sl'niur-trips have always been $50.
the citv·.., castoff" so fast Wednes­'40'~ lamp posts. old barber chairs, -..t1burban Humulus for two \Tars Al-.o. there will be three months
d:tl' and Thursda1 that the sale had ,juring the ttJ."O's. laid out $-1.650 ·over the summver when they will
,;r'";,cd $75.00iJ through noon tu achieve hi~ ambition nf owning
Strikers still 
be unable to collect any monev. but
Thursda\·-alrnost all of it clear tow of the show's biggest items. an will have to pay bills.-­
prolit. .The citY conducted what old tire engine and a ladder truck. ''a" billed a., "the world's largest stalk tire plants HL' wa~n·t concerned that they had garage ~ale" to help offset a 
lltl engines or drive shaft a~d he 6--U--LL_A__S_H_E_________CtEVELAND AP-Talks between 
lllttbicleveryonc-including his wife. ' f.the striking United Rubber Work­
80 -­
ers and the Firestone Tire and
Jackson works Su~~~;~~~~~; ;,~,~~e~)\~:~d ~ncb~~ h\r~ tEVERYONE w J
Rubber Co. remained stalled yes­
toughest jobs. wa.s convincing his t ELCOME!£
terday on amjor wage issues, but 
11 ill' to approve h1s purchases. j ,
for Indiana vote another negotiating session was 
"We ...rnpped on the wav to the ' jcalled in efforts to narrow second­
~ale and l.1ad a couple of dr-inb. so,' ' EVANSVILLE* Ind. AP-Sen. ary issues such as contractural and ~he ,,a~ Ill a better bu~tng mood ' THIS FRIDAY AND EVERY t
Henry M. Jackson. D-Wash.. ter­in~urance differences. whc·n we got there,'' he explained., f 
med comments from Vice-Presi­It was announced in advance that dent Nebon Rockefeller about al­after vesterday's session. the talks 
NOW OPEN ! FRIDAY AT 5:15p.m. :
leged Communist influence on his will tic recessed for the weekend "tatT · · McCarthvism revisited.·' until Monday. indicating that more 
KELLEY'S ' f
Campaigning. for Indiana's May tough bargaining lies ahead in ~ prc"idential primary here. Jack­efforts to close the gap between the 
SPORTLAND t f 
<,on ...aid. "It b incredible that a $1.65 an hour the union is seeking man hulding the second highest in the first evar of a three-year 
.__u_.s_.--.::c3-=-l..::_:N~IL=E=S~~ ~----':a~~~~~~~~y dinner t 


offic·L· in the country would make contract and tl;c $1.15 the ind~stry 'liL'h irresponsible statements." i~ offering over three years. \n .• rtick in the Atlanta Journal Sixtv thousand rubbcrworkers , . 1 t~riL'd that Rockefeller ques­struck. ~7 plants of the Big Four ',, •1.cd 111 L·loscd meetings of Re­tircmakcrs-Firestone. Goodyear llllldic·an part~· ll'adcrs whether Tire and Rubber Co.. B.F. Good­t '·tlllllllni~t inllucncc exists on the rich Co. and Uniroyal Inc.-in 21 '··: .ttnr'" ~tafT. states at midnight Tuesday. \ spoke~ man for Rockefeller said .c· Yice~pre~ident would make no ·•mmcnt on the report. 
Gallery presents 
I hrc• · unid< ntiticd Republicans .:t thl' mccttng ~aid Rockefeller 111l'lllitmL'd a Jackson staff member 
student art show 
,. lw 11 a' fmmerl.1· an avowed 
( t>llltnuni,t the Journal reported The annual Notre Dame exhibi­
',\ _·dnL''ll.t\. tion of student art opens this 
··II Ill' I;as "uch evidence. why Sunday, 25 April 1976, with a 
,t,n't 'lc giH·n it to the FBI long public reception from 2-5 p.m., in 
, ~~:. ·.Jackson said. "I demand he the University Art Gallery. O'Shau 
'"" ;··coplc and state the basis of ghnessy hall.

1" ·,·men!." The show. sponsored each year 
Ial "o.,on told more than 1,100 by the Notre Dame Art Depart­
..,.,,pic at a .Jefferson-Jackson Day ment. contains works in all media. 
.111111er here if elected. young It is open to any student taking an 
. •c·upk "ould be employed at art class in the University who 
··t~crvation and environmental wishes to submit a piece or pieces 
, oi'J ,, camps. for consideration. The final selec­
I te also said he would get rid of tions to be shown this year will be 
"phon~· detente. We all believe made by Greg Constantine, chair­
t hcTe is a need to lessen the man of the Art Department of 
1c :1\ions. but I'll be damned if we Andrews University in Berrien 
!lL'Cd to subsidize the Soviet Un­Springs. Michigan. 
ion. Most of the pieces displayed will Heferring to a $12 billion loan to be for sale. In the past, the student the Soviet Union, he said, "Lets exhibition has been one of the most ·invest the $12 billion in the United popular and successful events on State~ of America." the Notre Dame Art Gallery sche· Jackson is opposed on Indiana's dule. This year, according to Fr. Democratic· presidential primary by James Flanagan, chairman of the former Georgia Gov. Jimmy Car­Art Department, the show pro­ter. Alabama Gov. George Wallace mises to be even more innovative and Ellen McCormack, an anti· and drawn from a wider range of 
ahnrtion t':mclirlate from New York students than ever before. 
~~~~.._. 




Sunday is Fa~mily Day at The Boar's·Head! 
from Noon till10:00 p.m. on Sundays 
COMPLETE HAM or CHICKEN DINNER 
$3.95 

COMPLETE CHOPPED SIRLOIN or CHICKEN DINNER for Kids (Under 12) 
0~«-s-,.,11~$1.75 c~"!::~~~::~:;;u 
~ ~---~--
Cbe BCliR·s-HEllO Restaurrant 
52885 U.S. 31 North South Bend 1 272-5478 






the obsetver 13 


Boston courthouse bombed·, 18 hurt 
bv Dick Braude who referred to the pending case of man, ·'you left your package,'' evacuation was begun after the Gov. Michael S. Uukaki~ said. 
Assoc.iated Press Writer a black man accused of murdering diGrazia said. but the man ran warning was received. But he said "Obvious!~· the evicknl'L' i~ 
several white Boston area coeds away. at least SO such threats have been sketchy. There is nu cvidenee at 
BOSTON (AP) · A bomb ripped about four years ago, police said. "We have a good description of received in the la5t year and this point that thi~ morning'' through a courthouse probation This city has been hit by a series of the person who laid the bomb down workers were allowed to stay in the incident is connLX'll'd witlt race or oftice yesterday 20 minutes after a racial incidents since the institution on the tloor. and we're looking for building if they so chose. · in any way has any rl'iationship to telept;oned w:arning containing of court-ordered busing to deseg­that person." diGrazia said. The powerful blast tore away a other incident~ that have takl'n what a state official said were regate schools. One witness to the blast, Walter 20-foot section of wall separating place in the cit~.·· "l'lhnic t·onnmatinns." Police said Police Commissioner Robert di Murphy, deputy probation com­the office from a corridor and blew Sheriff Thoma~ Ei~cn~tadt quot­at least IH pt·rsons were injured. Grazia said one of the victims saw a missioner. said "I saw smoke and a hole through the tloor into the ed the caller as sa~·ing ...A homh including a man who lost a leg. man place what was described as a glass, debris and blood all over the lobhv below. will go otT. .Jack\on. A homh 11 ill go 
The warning · which apparently bomb on the tloor outside a bank of place. Doors were being blown off P<)wers said a call came to the otT. .Iackson." wa~ disregarded by some workers elevators in the Suffolk County everywhere." main switchboard at H:S.1 a.m. .Jackson's ca'>L' 11·a.., tlt>t dul' in who as!>.umed it was a hoax · came Courthouse. This unidentified vi~­Jo.llll Powers. clerk of the state warning that a bomb would go off court todav. autlwritie~ .....id. No in an anonymous call from a woman tim heard a ticking and said to the Supreme Court. said a voluntary somewhere in the building in 20 other case ~·itlt a ddl'nd.• nt h1 th.1t 
minutes. name was srhcduk-d. 
"It went off in 20 minute~." .~<lid "Suddcnll' thl' root' ju-.t '>hatltt 
Powers. "It was right on time." cd and can;c tumhli11g d""'' .111d
URW strike progresses slightly 
He said the caller referred to the evcrvhodv went run nine l•ut. ·· '" d case of Anthony Jackson, who i~ Linda Ba~l'/\ II. 24. of' llll'>illll. Ill ) Cl.I·:VFI.AND (AI')-The nation­yoshi Matsumoto. president of the for its $5.50 average hourly pay accused of murdering four Boston works in tit~· pruhation ullin·. <.;,,L' 
wide United l{uhbcr Workers strike Japanese l{ubher Workers union sufficient to put it abreast of the area young women about four year~ was treatl'd I'm a foot injun. that pull~ about $21.h million out of the UI{W helped establish last $h.7o average United Auto Work­ago. C'ath_,. Brocl.. an a...~i'>l;lltt.cln~ ... the economy in weekly payrolls Yl'ar. pledged to call "an unlimited er~ wage and then keep up with The caller gave "ethnic connota­B!lSlon .Juvenik-Court. had ,;Ill' ~howcd ~ign~ of becoming internat­strike" if settll'ment wasn't reach­LJA W general and living-cost in­tions which I don't want to ment­she saw a man place a pac·~a.J.!L' i11 ;1 ional as bargaining resumed yes­ed by Mondav. creases. Firestone has offered ion." Powers said. paper bag under a L'IHIIIIL'r. but till· tenlav. M~mda~· n;arks the start of a $1. IS in general increases plu!> a Powers made the comment to an l11catimt of the parkagt· rlllt•d it <HII 
Peter Bommarito, UHW internat­two-day conference with the Inter­cost-of-living clause the UHW con­Associated l'rcss ncw~man and one a~ the bomb. ional pre~idcnt, said he and .Joe national Federation of Chemical tract now lacks. other newspaper reporter. hut "I wa~ Vl'l'\'. \'lT\ ~L·arl'll. and I Cairn'>. indu~trial relations vice and General Workers (IFC) in Meanwhile. Goodrich said there when pressed declined to expand ran." she said. "I'm not u~ed til pre~idcnt and chief negotiator for Geneva. Switzerland at which Bom­was some progress in its negotia­on his remark~. thi~ type of' thin.J.!." Fire'>tone Tire & Huhher Co.. made marito. a~ president of the IFC's tions in Columbus. and Uniroyal Later. however, he denied to progre~~ in a three-hour meeting Rubber Uivision. or a stand in. will met with the LJRW in New York. other newsmen that the caller gave ~'J,lll'L~''l
toward eliminating some of the review negotiations and "line up Goodyear said its talks in Cincin­"ethnic connotations." 
~malll'r i~~ut·~. such as contract solidarity.·' nati were recessed temporarily language and insurance. Charles Lcvcnscn. IFC secre­because of lack of hotel space and Bommarito said yesterday Nori-tary general. pledged last February would be resumed elsewhere soon. to develop international support. Hobert Strauhcr, UHW education
Student places in 
including a worldwide boycott and director. flew to Washington. D.C .. possible sympathy strikes. to conduct a boycott school Friday
paper competition 
Today's meeting "could solve with the AFL-clO to coordinate the Mr. Hirhard S. Figliola. a grad­some of the minor issues.·' Bom­nationwide consumer boycott a­uate student in tht• Department of marito said. "As long as we keep gainst Firestone tires which the Acro~pacc and Mechanical Engi­talking. that's important." UHW called with AFL-CIO support. nL'L'ring. placed second in the The strike bv hO.OOO of the Before leaving, he said consumer graduate divisiun of the American URW's 190.000 'members against picket lines promoting the boycott ln-.titute of Aeronautics and A~tro­Fire~tonc and the rest of the will be set up at Firestone stores, at nautic~ Student paper competition. nation·~ Big Four -Goodyear Tire retail outlets handling Firestone 
The Midwc~t Conference was & l{ubber Co .. B.F. Goodrid1 Co. tires and at new car dealers in six held thi~ \Tar at the Univcrsitv of and Uniroyal Inc. -centers on target cities the first week in May. Wi~con~i,; ( M ilwaukcc campus.) on major issues including general April H-10. wage increases. cost-of-living ad­
Mr. Figliola'~ paper was entitled .iu,tml·nt provision~. pensions and 
Linguistics class 
·'In Vitro Evaluation of the lkmo-work rule modifications. 11 tic Potential of Prosthetic Heart The URW was concentrating on 
taught at SMC
Valw Flow." The research de­Fire~tone as most likely to produce \LTihcd in thi~ paper is under the a contract offer that would set the direl'!ion of Professor T . .l. Mueller. pattern for the other three. Saint Mary's College will offer li i~ part of a larger heart valve At issue were the UHW's princi­two sessions of a three week rc~earch project sponsored by the pal demands for an unlimited linguistics workshop for teachers National Science Foundation. cost-of-living provision and raises and prospective teachers majoring 
in elementary education, English. or foreign languages. 
The fir~t session will be from May 17 through June 4. and the second will be from .June 7 through 
Red Bud Festival offers 
appealing variety of music 
.June 25. The class will meet 
BARAERS & HAIRSTYUS, 
FULl. SERVICE UNISEX SHOP 
ROCCO'S ROCCO'S ROCCO'S ROCCO'S 
531 N. Mimigan 233-4957 ROCCOIs 
LLl 
I GOLF CENT,ER ~ 
I f11 i 
~ "NIGHT LIGHTED" 
~ 

~ 9 HOLE • PAR 3 GOLF COURS! ~ 
~Driving Range 18 Hole Mlnlolure ~ Open Dawn Til 10:00 PM ~ LOCATED US 33 AT IRONWOOD ~
ICall I 288-0033 I ~ ~ If Nn Ana Call 282-2366 ~ ~ 171.5 LINCOLN WAY EAST SO. lfliP ill 
......, ................................-..r. 
I 

NDGODSPELL
r- 
SMC  April 23,24,29,30, May 1 at P.M. Stepan Center (Notre Dame)  8:oo  
THEATRE'  $2.50 General Admission $2.00 Students, Faculty & Staff  
1975-1976  For Reservations Call 284-4176  
Our 10th Joint Season  (Show Nights Call 283-755'1)  

Monda~' through Friday from q 
II\ Marianne Sl·hullc of Siq..:;il Schwall). and soft rock a.m. to noon. r-:''''''''''''''''''""""'l 
S~·nior Staff Rl•porlcr group' lllackstonc (South Bend). The principles and techniques of 
1 arts & letters students ~ ~ 
Bnt,·,· ( arr (Kalamazoo) and Cross­structural and generative .bo11 ( Kalama1.oo). transformational linguistics will be 
1interested in serving o'f-" 1
American The fest ivai is not being billed as introduced with special attention Wolld,tod, tnav be llll ih wa\ with a "rock L·onccrt" because the only given to their application in the till' i{,·d llud Mu~ic Fc~tiva(. hap­roL·k that 11 ill he played is soft rock. classroom. The phonologic, mor­I on the ~ N~ ~0v1 pening S.l!lllday, May Hth on 200 lih· thl' musil' of the Alman phologic. syntactic. and semantic acrL·, at the Motor Cross Track Bmthcr~ Band and The Doobie analysis of language in general will 
north 111 Buchanan. Michigan on Brothers a~ opposed to groups like be made with English as the focal 
I 0"-~ ~ 0~ I 
Red l!ud Trail. The festival will 1\.i~~-Aerosmith or Tubes. language. featurt• soft rock. bluegrass and T<>day'~ l.i1 ing Sounds Produc­Texts for the class will be rh1 thm and blues from I I a.m. to q tion' is putting up $10.000 to get Linguistics and Language, Julia S. 
i ~\.) ~ 0 ! 
p.lll. tltL· ~how togt·ther. and admission Falk; and Guide and Workbook in A spoke~ma n from Today's Liv­L'!l~ts will be used solely for the the Structure of English, Harold V. 
I ;\S \:).<:;)~ next year should I 
ing Sound~ Productions which is purpo~e of covering the. costs of King. The course will be taught by pnHnoting the festival termed the ~tagc rental and other similar hills Dilaver Bcrheri, Associate Profe­
1~ ~ contact Don Prebish atI
L'll'nt "the biggest thing like this incurred. ssor of Linguistics and Languages, that has ever hit Barion County." Tickets arc $.1.50 and arc avail­Saint Mary's College. 
1 1532 to arrange for ~ 
I cgal nt•gotiations with county able at South Bend ticket outlets For more information or registr­officials and zoning administrators and Tickctron in Chicago. Gates ation, contact: Gail MandeL Saint 
~ an interview ill
lwvc been underway for several will open at 9 a.m. Saturday. and Marys College. 
-......................................, .......................... 
month~ in order to permit a concert concessions and beer arc available 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
of this size into the area. with identification. Hain date for The fe~tival will he the first in a the Festival is the next day. t ~J'NA"Iti•Hii:ri]JfiliiJ~IIIJ:II~I{•l':J(I WITH THIS couroNt scric' of three concerts planned for Sunday. May 9th. f Call for Appointrrent · f till' !oration, the next of whid1 is 
Pair survives for ! 259-~ ANUN1UNEDENGINEWASTESGAS! $5.00 't
\l'hcdulcd for July fourth. l:ight hand~ wiil feature the best 
$25 Library prize
in hluq.{ras~. rhythm and blues and 
' $l9 95 PlUS PARTS,
'>oft l'llL'k from Chicago. Kalama­too. Ea't Lan~ing, Ann Arbor and Hick Pacropis and Vicki Lopez 
1 MlleJZ. . MosT CARs oFF 1 
South Bend. Constant music will won the An Tostal dance marathon 
he pla_n:d for from II a.m. until nmtest Wednesday night, April 21 
f MILEX ELECTRONIC TUNE-UP SAVES GAS! Regular Rice f
'>Un\ct from two stages and a public at the Library Lounge. Finnishing address system to reach fifteen second in the 4 112 hour contest were thousand 1;eople. Pat Flynn. Junior class president, !RUSS & LIBERTY DRIVE INCLUDES: MILE>< ! 
Rosehip String Band (Chicago), and Laura Brems. ' , 40 Step Engine Analysis PRECISION ' Martin Bogman and the Arm· Fifteen couples began the cont­t MISHAWAKA ,Electronic Carburetor Adjust t 
\trongs (Chicago), The Sweet Corn est which was open to all ND-SMC i ( 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF K-MART) ,catibrate Timing ELECTRONIC ' String Band (Kalamazoo) and Buck students. Contestants had to dance ' , 30 Step Tune up TUNE-UP ' 
llorn (Ea~t Lansing) will play the "Jitterbug", Rock'n Roll and i MON-SAT 8-5 P.M. ,Guarantee Parts & Labor 6,000 BRAKE t bluegrass, along with rhythm and Disco. Pacropis and Lopez receiv­' miles·l20 days 
blues artist Corky Siegal (formerly ed a $25 prize. f Specialists in Brakes, A-C and Electrical Service! -T-UN-E-U-P _ _J 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

, 
-~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
r·. · rf
I 4 the ~erver . ~---~ ... -r-nudy, ""'Pru ..£~, 17io 
........ 
Angers 'toP$ lnriSb.TfJtff::·ffl::stciCte:rit~PJ~JJdl§·titY,':~:J·d 
Fortv-nine students from the three additional countries. University of Sophia in Tokyo, 13 year abroad gained from contact ram in Tokyo, started in 1968, University of Notre Dame opened a The group in Angers, France, a men and two women; 23 at the with foreign teachers, students and 1 added another 24 and a short-lived Foreign Study Program in lnns­frequent runnerup to lnnsbruck in Anahuac campus in Mexico City, situations. "Students see new rele­adventure in Cali, Columbia. pro­bruck. Austria. in 1964. the first of student popularity. will move to 14 men, six Notre Dame women vance in traditional subject matter duced another 1S students before it more than 1.200 sophomores who first place in September when 19 and three from St. Mary's, and four as places. peoples and events take gave way to Mexico in 1970 and the have since participated in year­Notre Dame men will be joined by at the Taiwan campus in the on immediacy." he says. enrollment of 19 students. abroad cla;.scs designed to add an 21 women students. seven from Republic of China, two from Notre The 49 students in the first While lnnsbruck and Angers international aspect to their educa­Saint Mary's and one from Indiana Dame and two from participating year-abroad program and the 48 in maintain a relatively stable enroll­tion. University. Fort Wayne, for a total institutions. the second increased to 86 in the ment the newer centers are report­
A total of 132 students have been of 48. No longer enhanced by the In addition, the Law School will 1966-67 academic year when An­ing increased interest on the part of selected for tivc overseas centers presence of the Winter Olympics, send more than 30 students to gers was added. The Sophia prog-students. More than-twice as many next vcar while scores of other enrollment at Innsbruck will drop London for a second-year program, students will be living next year in ~tudc;1ts will attend specialized from 56 to 42. Architecture Department and a Irish symposium Mexico City as there were this year llnivcrsitY-sponsored programs in There will be 1S students at the cooperative program with St. while the Tokyo Program will 
Mary's will have approximately 80 increase from the current eight to
set for this week
in Rome. and the English Depart­IS.
Colorado governor signs 
ment will continue a small program Two Irish speakers will discuss Students in the College of Busi­in Dublin, Ireland. current events in Ireland during a ness Administration are joining The current director of the mini-symposium to be held next Arts and Letters majors in increas­
law to lessen beauracracy 
Foreign Study Programs. Dr. Char­week. ing numbers to gain new insights in les E. Parnell. a national authority Grattan Freyer, director of the the study of international trade. 
b1 Cad Hilliard the Colorado Legislature was intro­on language. education and a Irish Humanities Center in Dublin. Stude;1ts with a prolicient know­As .nt."iatcd Press Writer duced in JantHlr~· by Rep. Gerald former resident director in Angers. will speak on Monday, April 26 at 8 ledge of the language and a grade Kopel. D-Dcnver, after a presenta­highly values the increased cultural p.m. in room I I7 Haggar Hall, on point average predicting success Dl.:'ol\l:n (APl -Colorado Gov. tion by Common Cause during the and intellectual dimensions of a "Literature and violence in twenti­are eligible to apply for the I{, hard Ltmm ~·c;.terday signed 1475 summer interim period. It eth century Ireland." He is spon­programs. The Tokyo and Taipei tl~<· natiPn·-. lin.t la11· designed to cleared the Hou'>e Judiciary Com­Alumni elect sored by the Cultural Arts Com­centers arc the only sites where furl'L' go1 ernmL·ntal bureaucracies mmittee the next day, was app­mission and the Senate for Civil English predominates in classroom <ll'l of bu~ine'>~ unless they can roved 11\' the House on Feb. 4. and Rights. discussion. though students are
six new directors 
pnll L' thcv"rc nL·eded. sped th;·ough the Republican-cont­Brian Inglis will speak on Tues­encouraged to acquire a conversa­Ihe citi;cns· lobby Colorado rolled Senate on March 3 I. day, April 27 at 8 p.m. in the Law tion level with their hosts. 
Alumni of the University of Notre
Comnwn Cau;,c proposed the so­School on "In the Shadow of the Costs for the student during his 
Dame have elected six directors to
calle-d Sun'>cl Law six months ago Moslems issue Gunmen: Individual Rights in year abroad, including roundtrip 
serve thrce-vear terms in their
to L"OiltrPI the state version of Northern Ireland." He is sponsor­travel. arc approximately the same 
national association. The new offi­
supL·rgm crnrnent: a system of ed by the Civil Rights Center and as for those on the Notre Dame 
rn;ulaton· agcncic;. and programs Beirut ultimatum cers will join nine directors pres­the History department. campus.ently representing more than
that Common Cau<;c feels has BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -Leftist 

SS.OOO alumni and will attend
c\l'L'L'dcd its statutorv authoritv. 

Mo.,Jems vcsterdav threatened 
to annual meetings on the campus.
The law·., concept. is not comp­

i··riMM·i>·ARrY·s·rail·E...i
establish a revolu"tionary govern­
Named to represent alumni in
licated. 

ment if Christian President Sulci­
the southwest area was John P.
It gives an agency or program a man Franjieh does not step down :oPEN : MON-SAT 9am-11 pm:
Moran. a 1959 graduate with a law
life of !-.ix \'Cars. Within that from offtL'e in l0 days.

period. the legislature must call in Fighting tapered off in the year practice in Phoenix and a director :• SUNDAY 12noon 1 1pm •:
of the National Council on Alcohol­
directors or supervisors to justify war left 16,SOO
old civil that has 
ism. The father of four children, he
the agency's or program's contin­dead and ruined the economy. but : COLD BEER,WINE, LIQUOR, :
has served in all elective capacities
uance. 

thcre still was sporadic shelling 
in the Notre Dame Club of Phoenix.
If the legislators are satisfied. and shooting. Police said 27 : GORMET FOODS :
Another attorney. Robert E.
the program or agency will cont­persons were killed and 46 wound­Sr., was to

Clemency, elected
inue for another six years, during eel throughout the country yester­:3114 S. 11 St. NILES, MICHIGAN: 
represent the association in north
which the process will be repeated. 

day. central states. The 19SI graduate is • "BIGGEST LITTLE :
If witnesses can't justify themsel­• •
Nine of the wounded were hit in 
a member of the Milwaukee law 
ves. they will be given year to

a St. Joseph's Hospital, in Dora in lirm of Michael. Best and Friedrich ~••••~.I.Cf.llflfi.~J.9}Jh.IJi.M!~.IiJ~At\: .....:
busines,s with was
complete their no eastern Beirut, which blasted 
and is a former governor of Serra
reduction in their authority. 

bv IS mortar shells. 
International district.
to reviewed

Among boards be · Beirut radio also reported clash­-···························~········ 
The president of a Detroit print­
arc those licensing and r0gulating es in nearby Nabaa. a Moslem area 

ing firm. as as : COLLEGE EDUCATION ~ 
well the Class of

barbers. cosmetologists anLl short­eastern enc­
in Beirut completely 
1939 at Notre Dame, James N.
hand reporters. They come up for ircled bv the Christians. * * 
review on Julv 1, 1977. Motschall. will serve as director for ~ corner of Logan and Jefferson ~ 
Mea~while, Syrian-equipped 
tr­the Michigan-Ohio district of the
"There b -a whole history of oop'> of the Palestine Liberation association.

agencies set up for the best * * 
Organization cosolidated their hold ~ ~ 
Anthony F. Earley, a 1947 grad­FINEST purpo~c~. hut in fact they some­along the so-called green line 
uate and president of a New York
times don't work for the best dividing Christian and Moslem textile firm. Chave and Earley. i 24 HOUR RESTAURANT i

purposes." Lamm, a Democrat, 

forces in Beirut. 
Inc.. will represent the New York
~aid in signing the bill. 

Three trucks carrying JS tons of 
area. He is active on the advisory
flour crossed from the Christian 
i IN MICHIANA i
board of the National Alumni
"I'm not so sure that anv of 

area in eastern Beirut to western 
Schools Committee.
thL·~e affected Colorado age~cies Beirut. where bread shortages

arL· in that catcgm)·. but they all A Memphis attorney and mem­*~ catering to *~ 
were beginning to develop. 
ber of the Class of 1963. Lee L. 
can bcndit from this reviel\ proc­Franjieh. the stubborn 6S year Piovarcy. has been selected to t ND-SMC LATE NIGHT NEEDS told Christian leader clinging to

e~~-represent the south central states.
Othl'l" ~tares and the federal office despite passage of a parlia­

He is state chairman of the Publicgu\-crnmcnt arc examining the mentary resolution allowing elec­Relations Committee of the Ten­*t FEATURING COLLEGIATE SPECIAL · t* 
com·cpt. 

tion of a successor, summoned 
nessee Bar Association and active
ON the federal level. Sens. 

hi~main Christian allies to his in the Knights of Columbus. t "JACK OMELET" t Edmund Muskic. D-Mainc, and headquarters nine miles north of 
Named to an "at-large" seat on
John H. Clenn. Jr.. D-Ohio. have Beirut for a meeting. The Christ­* * 
the board and representing alumni
teamed with Barry Goldwater. * * 
ians have refused to grant the 
!{-Ariz.. to support the "Govern­Moslem majority·s demands for who havegraduated in the last five * Daily Lunch Special Hamburgers * years is Michael J. McCurdy. a
ment Economv and Spending Ref­more 

political and economic cont­
doctoral student in accounting from * * 
"rm Act of 19ln. ·· rol. unless there is a clamp down on III. is a of * * 
Evanston. He native
!hat \\ ould pl~L"L' most federal Palestinian guerrillas. ~ BREAKFAST SERVED ANYTIME t
Dallas where he is active in the 
programs on a four year life plan. 
two to

Franjieh sent envoys Notre Dame Club programs.
'>•·n. Gan Hart. D-Colo.. recent­* * 
Damascus for clarifications on the ' lttrmluc~·d A team
,, ~imilar hill. *••·········~······················~
Palestinian role in the latest cease­
"' <~li!L'r .'>. wnaturs and repre­

fire. the 35th, arranged by Syrian ~L"I,t.tliiC'> ha~ draftcd a bill calling 
President Hafez Assad. They had '·''' " m<•ndaton I"CI'iL'\\ of specified been expected to report to him at ; r• '".. of federal regulation and 
the meeting. but Beirut radio said ll'•' .atin of rcgulatton. 
the emissaries were not due to i 1.. '-iun<,ct measure approved by 
return to Beirut until today. It said Franjich and his allies went ahead
Chorus to perform 
with their mecring. Palestinian guerrilla leader Yasir Arafat joined Assad in the cease-­
'Requiem' Sunday 

tire initiative even though he supports the leftist Moslem Alli­at Sacred Heart ance led by Kamal Jumblatt agai­nst the anti-Palestinian right. 
The Universitv of Notre Dame Jumblatt's forces said in a Chorus. under ·the direction of statement boradcast by Beirut rad­Walter Ginter. will perform Mau­io any further delay by Franjieh in nce Durutlc'!> "Requiem" at 8:1S signi11g the constitutional amend­
p.m. Sunda_,. (April 2S) in Sacred ment clearing the way for election 
lle<m Church. of a successor would lead to I Soloi~ts at the program, open to parrition of Lebanon.
I 
the public. will be Dr. David Clark It said Franjieh had until May 2
l 
bele, baritone. and Anita Hamp­to leave office.
I 
son mezzo-~oprano. Craig West­Beirut radio quoted Camille Ch­
I 
endorf is assistant director and amoun, leader of the National
l 
accompanist will be Nancy Hunter. Liberal party. as saying he expec­
I 
Note: The concert of the Notre ted Franjieh to sign the constitu­
~ 
Dame Orchestra previously sched­tional amendment Friday, permit­
I 
uled for May 2 has been cancelled. ting election of a successor. 
t 
Irish netters five .up and::one down over Easter vacation 
h) Tom Powanda 

La~t week after losing their fifth match of the year. the Notre Dame tcnni~ team came on to sweep live victoric~ in a row. Not·thwest­l'l'n. DePaul. Bowling Green, Nor­thel'll lllinoi' anr.L Purdue all met ddcat again~! N.D. as the Irish nL'IIl·r~ imTl'a~L·d their record to 13-S. 
A 'trong Michigan team proved too much for the ll+,h, beating 
Golfers on road for invitationals 
The Notre Dame golf team will Ill' on the road this weekend for two .lh-hoil' invitational toul'llaments. Fridav the Iri~h travel to West Lat'a<cllc to compete in the Purdue Invitational. contested over the South Cour~c of the Boilermaker campus. Hueston Woods Golf Club . the course of host Miami of Ohio, will be the destination of the Irish goll'ers Monday. as they will battle in the Mid-American Invitational. 
Notre Dame captain, Pual Kop­rowski, is the reigning Mid-Amcri­l'an champion having captured the rain-~hortened event last spring with a 71. The All-America candidate will carry a 74.6 stroke average into this weekend's action, coming off a 2J I. three-round total in the Kepler Invitational this past weekend. Koprowski's IS-over total placed him I Oth in a field of IJ2 golfers. As a team, the Irish were 17th in the field of 22. posting a team -;core of I ,206. Host Ohio State took the tournament with a I. 137 total. 
l.a~l ~pring the lrbh were sixth at l'urdue.totalling 77o. lkaded by Koprow~ki'~ 71. the Irish tallied .177 to lini~h third at Hueston Wo()(b, a mere three shots off the winning pace. Notre Dame will look to improve on th~se mmks, nnd then close out the season on the weekend of May I hack at Ohio State for the No;·thern Intercolleg­iate. 
them soundly 8-1. The only victory 
of the match for Notre Dame came 
when Brian Hainlir. ~ and Tony 
Bruno teamed together in the 
\econd doubles slot and bear their 
Wolverine opponents 6-2, 7-S. 
The N.D. netters turned things 
around in their next match with a 
h-3 victorv over Northwestern. 
Randy Stehlik. Hainline. Mike 
O'Do;1ncll and Bruno all came 
awny with victories in singles. The 
other two victorie~ came as Stehlik 
teamed with O'Donnell in first 
doubles and Marty combined with 
Da\'l' Wheaton to take the third 
doubles ~lot. 

The second victory for the Irish 
last week came in a rematch with 
NO tracksters go to Drake Relays 
It's on to Des Moines. Iowa and the Drake Relays this week for six members of the Notre Dame track team. A field of close to 120 schools will be represented in the meet which is contested Friday and Saturday. Meanwhile, the remain­der of the Irish thinclad squad will journey to Ball State for an invita­tional featuring a number of mid­west schools. 
Leading the Irish in the distance medley will be freshman Jay Miranda, already a qualifier for the NCAA championships in the 800­meter run. Miranda will also be a member of the four-mile relay team which will be rounded out by Bill Allmendinger, .Jim Reinhart-and senior cocaptain Jim Hurt. Hurt has been running well as of late, his most recent placing being fourth in the three-mile run in 
14:14 at the Ohio State Relays, The llfth runner making the trip will be .Joe Nicholson, a member of the distance medley quartet. Both the medley and the relay teams finish­ed fifth at the Ohio-State over the weekend. The lone Irish field event representative will be pole-vaulter Mike Hogan who has already cleared IS '6" this spring. 
DePaul University. Just as they did the first time, Notre Dame came out on top with a S-4 win. Stehlik. Horan. Bruno and Wheaton each picked up wins in their respective singles slots while Hainline and Bruno came up with a victory in second doubles to ice the victory for N.D. 
Notre Dame continued their win­ning ways as they soundly defeated Bowling Green University 6-J. Stehlik, Bruno and Wheaton again picked up singles victories as did Hainline and O'Donnell. Finishing the victory for the Irish was O'Donnell and Stehlik as they teamed for a lirst doubles victory. 
The fourth victory in a row for the Irish was prob;;bly one of the toughest all year. High winds and bad weather forced Notre Dame and Northern Illinois to play ten game pro sets to determine a victor. The Irish were true to form as Stehlik, Hainline. O'Donnell, Horan. Bruno and Wheaton all helped to sweep the singles con­tests while Hainline teamed with Bruno and Horan with Wheaton for two victories in doubles. 
The fifth victorv in a row came at Purdue on Tucsdav afternoon. All three doubles tean;s came up with 

r' 


victories as Stehlik teamed with Rick Slager. O'Donnell with Hain­line and Bruno with Wheaton. Hainline, O'Donnell. Slager and Horan came up with the remaining victories in their respective singles slots. 7-2 was the tina! score. 
Notre Dame takes their IJ-5 record into a tough weekend of competition all of which arc home. On Saturda~· N.D. will host Ohio State. Followin,L! th:tl makh Ohin StalL' will chalknL!< lm\;t, On Sundav morninl! thL· lrt\h will tal-l' on E<t.~tern Mi;·higan "hik in thL· afternoon the lri~h "ill bailie lo\\ a. 

Still in good ~hape for thl· NCAA's, the lri.\h nL'IIl'l's hop,· '" lini~h in the top 20 in thl' nati•>tJ \\·hich would qualil\ them to s•·nd their top four pla1 L'r~ tn the tournament. 



129 north michigan street, downtown south bend 
Joe Willie Wilkins &the King Biscuit Bo4s 
april 23 24, friday &saturday 
with Memphis Ma Raine4 
Dennis Bamber & N.D. Jazz Combo Apr· II 27 Russ Hunt April 28 Son Seals April 30-May 1 
R,EAL MUSIC~ FOOD 1\ND DR1NK-. 


Homemade Food. Popular Pr~ces & No Comput~-·-~-~ 
Irish Wake tix now on sale Wed. Happy 21st Birthday Nccusher. Live Fri. at Student Union Tix Office and
WANTED it up! 
dining halls.
Classified Ads 
From EveryoneW ilnled One small regrigerator. 

PARTY AT DAVID BOSSY'S THIS3 bedroom furnished apartment,
Cilll 4104 Need a place to stay in Chicago this SATURDAY NIGHT · CAMPUS
I 11alf of a duplex, deposit. lease, for May 15th to Labor Day. Call 
June, July, & August. Any informa. 
VIEW CENTER.
FOR SALE tall term. Call 255 3205. 234 1056, Mon. Fri. 
lion will help. Call Gregg at 1615. Am leaving the university, and not I
Pirahna for sate Call 8645. For rent:House for summer rent. Typing wanted pick. up and delive Greg: 
atone, no tenure. I want to say
Excellent condition. Call 1292. ry. 683 7759. 
Doesn't Marilou's hair took love. goodbye to the best student body in
For Sale: Fiat 128, 4 door, '73, as ty? 
the world and tell the faculty that new. Call Fernando after 6 p.m., For rent: Near campus, 1 large apt. Typing, $.35 a page. Call Dan, whenever the doors of Auschwitz
277 0188 2 or 3 turn. utilities. Two kitchen 272 5549. 
Hey Pumpkin.poo, 
open of one of little people they open
ettes 1 person, turn. utilites. Sum. 
Call me sometime, after you're all for them too.
Under Pioneer car stereo cassette mer only, mornings or evenings, Typing professionally done rested up .. but not at 2 am, or I may P. Fenelonplayer used 6 months. Auto reverse. 272 6174. thesis, dissertations, resumes, term do the same to you sometime after Reference
$60. Call Tom, 3579. papers. Barb, 259.4894. 
all, you do like surprises. 
Univ. Libraryfurnished house near Campus for Your Student 

Mazda, 1973 RX3, 34,000 mi. new 3 4 available for Summer and Fall, Linda's letters, dissertations spe. 
P.S. Aren't I romantic! 
Amazing Michelle,
tires, air conditioning, $1 ,000.00, 272 6174. Apt. Call mornings or cialists, typing af student rates, 
You don't have to read my mind to
call 234 5939 evenings. evenings. 289 5193. Dear Shannon, 
know what I'm thinking of New Forget about watching the $6 
Orleans, Disney World, Toll house
1973 Fiat 128 SL, 29,000 miles. House tor rent Sept. '76. 3 and STEREO COMPONENTS, 1;20·40, million man!! He needs sometime to Cookies and you.
$1.300. XLI Call 277 2420, after 7:00 more bedrooms, good kitchen, big PERCENT DISCOUNT. All qualiTy recharge. 
Who else? 

pm. living room, dining room, indoor namebrands. RMS Audio, 321 S. 
A fellow Bionic YourM.W.P Rep
plumbing. If you rent now, we get Main, 288 1681. M F, 12:00·6:00. Duai1229Q changer, $180. Call Len, $50 off our rent. Call 234·8952. 914 G. E. A., 
Ya Ya,289 8990. Less than 1 yr. old, E. Cedar St (Near St. Joe's Hospital) Accurate, fast typing. Hours, 8 am 
Happy Birthday!! 
W 11af a great alarm clock you are!
excellenl condition. to 8 pm. Mrs. Donoho, 232.0746. 
Love, Don't know wl1af I'll do this sum LOST & FOUND K.F.C. & M.E. mer.
Need a rigrigerator for next year? RUGBY SHIRTS + IDENTICAL 
Thanks for file best break ever!
Still have plenty left for a super Found: Pair of glasses by the lake. SHIRTS AS THE CHEERLEADERS ND·SMC Council for the Retarted 84'price!! Call Biv, 6891. Scott on stem. Call 1715. FOR $13.00. IDEAL FOR GIFTS. Kite flyinq Sat. 9:00 11 :30. Any ''Sweet pea'·ALSO, FOOTBALL T·SHIRTS IN questions call Jim Scott 1745 or Sue FOR RENT Lost: Ladies silver watch in vicinity NAVY OR YELLOR OF $3.50, CALL Maude, 277 1182. 
BEST WISHES TO SHEILA O'BRI. 
of Nickies. Great sentimental value. DAVE BOSSY. 
EN STARRING TONIGHT IN
For Summer rental: Super 4 bed Please call 57 41 or 5368. 
"Beppo turns my stomach" NDi5MC PRODUCTION OF GOD 
room fully furnished house near HAVING A PARTY?? LOWEST . Beppo's mother SPELL. OPENING TONIGHT IN
Jeff Eddy. Washer, dryer, all utili Lost: Gold watch between Grotto PRICES ON KEGS & CASES & STEPAN. SHE'S THE BEST AND
ties. $175. 234 1972. and Grace Hall or student parking FREE DELIVERY. DAVE, 277· Attention, Men of Notre Dmae! CR, 
WE ALL KNOW HOW GREATlof. Call Ann, 4 4343. 0948. specially imported from Louisville, SHE'LL BE. BREAK A LEG.For rent: 2 rooms, $40 a month. 
will be available in South Bend for Dear Roomies,
233 1329 Found: 1 girl's watch between Zahm Last weekend this semester, Gay only 3 more weeks! Absolutely no Who needs an Easter bunny when
and Keenan, Monday April 19. Call Community of Notre Dame, Holling, offers accepted after May 12th. Milliken Rentals, 282·2089, 233 T ezza at 17 4 1 . 8870. Fri & Sat. 8 10 pm Or write 
an EGGMA N comes a knocking at 5833. House & apartments available Box 206. 
my door? You have probably seen
Beppo Guipo · UMOC · 1976. 
him around.
for June or Sept. Lost gold wire rim glasses by lakes over Easter call 288 0060. 5th yr. student looking for house and
Ride-a.Bike for the Retarded. This 
Kerry t.,
Summer houses and rooms for rent · Sunday, 25th, There' II be prizes, 
house mates OC in tall. Charlie,real close fo campus. Furnished NOTICES regreshments and Good Times. 8698. 
Happy B. Day (Fronlicl1er Ge ridiculously reasonably. 233 2613 or 289·4831. 
burlslag) and best wishes. Your former yet still beloved roommate,
232 7263. Happy An Tostal, Ms. X MJB,YEAR END SALE FROM FLAN­Will do typing, experienced. Term SEP, SMM, EC, JAS, MCM, TMS JanieM. 4 & 6 bdr. houses for Sept. 1976. NER RECORDS! PURCHASE ANY papers, etc. Call 233·8512. (sorry it's late.) ORDER ALBUM FOR OUR EVER­
Good neighborhoods near ND. Rea. "Beppo is beautiful" no one in their sonable rates. Contact Mr. Gatto, YDAY LOW PRICE OF $4.55 AND PERSONALS right mind would think this. Brian & Shane, 
YOU CAN BUY ANY STOCK AL­Thanks for fhe drinks. 1 owe you
234 6688. BUM FOR ONLY $4.05 OR BUY one (or two).
Miz Basara, Red Bud Music Festival . Sat., May
ANY STOCK ALBUM FOR ONLY Kim
House tor rent . 3 people. $150.00 & We got a bone to pick with you. 8th. 10 hrs. of Bluegrass, R & B, and
$4.30. WE HAVE THE NEW A
uti. 914 Notre Dame. 234 5646. We saw your new clothes and now soft Rock. 8 bands from Chicago,
MERICA, SEALS AND CROFTS, 
we're naming our demands: A raise, Kalamazoo, E. lansing, So. Bend. Must sell stereo. One month old.
2 7 bedroom houses for 3 month PAUL MCCARTNEY,LED ZEPPE· 
or else we're going to steal your blue Concessions, and beer with IDs. 
summer rentals. All furnished. Call LIN, AND PETER FRAMPTON dress. RBF on 200 acres, 2 mi. N. of Pioneer SX950, PL 112D, OMEGA AND MORE!! IN STOCK!! COME
288 6259 after 6 p.m. Buchanan, Mich. on R.B. Trail. 
4 way speakers. Call 1623.
TO 807 FLANNER OR CALL 1488. 
Kerry, Tickets, $3.50 Advance, $4.00 date. 3 bedroom house. available May 20. I'm wishing you a happy b.day available thru Boogie Records, Fireplace, garage, basement. Rent today, now that your vision has Record Joint. Vegetable Buddies,
Sailors . openings for two experi. open to negotiation. Call 237 ·4023 or returned! Suspended Chord.
enced crew to help race winning 34' 277 ·3461. 1142 Portage. 
sloop on Lake Michigan. Racing at 
Love,

Michigan City most Sundays from 
Sis 


------~~----~-~ -~-~------------------------~------------------------­
16 ~, the observer Friday, April 23, 1976 ­
TILCS meet A WT in bookstore final 
b~ Rich Odioso Jack Powers of the Nutmeggers played well outside while Mike and 
A~ expected Average White Mark Meyer were their usual Team and TILCS will meet for the stalwart selves inside. Book'it.1re Tournament title to­In immediate jeopardy of extinc­night. But a funm· thing happened tion AWT shifted its tactics. "I llll the wa1 to the finals to A WT, think the key was when we picked they nearh didn't make it. up the pace." Kevin Doherty 
The Nutmeggers who had shod explained. "We tried to slow it the gla'>~ slipper as the tourney's down at first and it just wasn't Cinderella team were the toast of working. When we stepped things the ball in the early going of last up we got a few baskets and got night''> sc·mi-tinals opening up a back into it." From 14-10 the fast 14-10 lead on .\WT. But then the break propelled Average White e\o..:k -,truck midnight for the into a 17-17 tie. Nutmcggvr' and AWT swept to a It was here that Doherty took 
21-1-11 in. over hitting the game's next three 
While :\veragL· White was using baskets with his fallaway to break a bli'itering fa ... t break and the it open. Bill Paterno ended it with nothing-hut~!JL't jump-shooting of an inside follow shot. Kc·1·in Dnher;_,~ t<l '>core the winning With containing Dave Batton and lllHljl" tlic hall wrned into a Bill~ Sahm and Dave Kelly unable pumpkin rnr 'lutmegger~ suddenly to get consistently open the balan­inel!"iL·ient ulfen.,e. ced TlLCS called on John Dubenet­
In thL' nthn '>emi-final game zk_,.. The bandanned linebacker IIU S jumped to an early lead and rc'>plmdcd with his team's tina! -tah· y·our pick-'>Unk. torpedoed or four baskets of the first half as decp-,iH·d the Poseidon Adventure TILCS broke to an insurmountable ~l-Ib. 11-4 halftime lead. Laimbccr pumped in seven in the able moment occurring late in the performer but not as talented as 
The Ppener hung 111 doubt Bill Laimbccr. clearly the tour­second half but TILCS was never contest when Kelly sprinted mys­the man he replaced. Mike Banks. though until the final minutes. namcnt'sdominantplaycr until last seriously threatened. teriously from the court in the Banks was a victim of this year's Playing beautifully together Nut­night wa-, unable to get untracket The Batton-Laimbcer battle was waning moments with what three-jock per team rule. mcggers forged an 11-LJ halftime in the lir~t half as Batton's defense pretty much even. TILCS were able appeared to be a dislocated shoul­It shapes up as a match-up then lead and upped it in the early part andhis own inaccuracy limited him to help out Batton more with a der. It was the greatest disappear­of TlLCS inside power versus the uf the second. Mike Howard and to two baskets in the first half. sagging defense that conceded ance in the course of an athletic torrid fast break that AWT has 
outside shots to Poseidon. On the event since Joe Hardy vanished shown. The key matchup thus other hand Batton is not as integral from sight after catching the flyball figures to be how the quicker
Season basketball ticket 
a part of his team's offense. Final that enabled the Senators to beat Horton does against the taller stats showed Laimbcer out-scoring the Yankees in "Damn Yankees." Kelly. 
Batton 9-7 with each player hitting Kelly is back this year allegedly RICK'S PICK -Average White once from the line. Laimbeer was 8 for the duration and returns with Team 23-21. 
sale set by Tix Manager 
Students wbhing to purchase sea-scats will not go on reserve until of 23 from the field to 6 of 13 for three other members of last years DUNKING CONTEST son tickets for the I1}76-77 Notre the fall. 
Batton. Batton won the battle of the team. -Batton Kirby and s·ahm. Immediately following the pres­Dame basketball season can do so All students will be required to 
boards 13-12. The addition is Dubenctzky who enting of the trophies Bookstoreac­
beginning Tuesday April 27, place a $10 deposit at the time of BOOKSTORE BANTER -Kurt replaces the departed J .J. De.Mattci umTil~ it'~ Fir'>l Dr. J competitioncording to Ticket Manager Mike purchase. The balance will be Horton of A WT and John Dubcnet­and Dubenetzky has been an for llambo~·ance in jamming. The
Busick. collected in the fall when the tickets zky of TILCS were the two most anchor stcad:ving the high-tl~·ing competition~ namesake i'> allegedlyPrices for season tickets will be arc distributed. 
consistent players on the court last TILC attack. His addition has trying to find time to attend the$32 for lower arena scats and $24 Students have the option of not night. The stead~· Horton hit 5 of 8 definite!~ improved the team and event.
for bleacher scats. This constitutes buving tickets this spring and shots and cleared I 0 rebounds. thus give~ TILCS renewed hope. A tield of at lca~t Sl'l'l'll has been
a price increao,e in total amount waiting to buy tickets in the fall at Duhcnctzky·'s shooting improves Average White Team also IT­tentativelv lined up. Thcv willfrom la.,t ~·car. but thi'> is due to an the same price. However. there is each time out. last night he was 5 of turns four play'L'r'> from last season attempt three different dunks-theincreased number of home games no guarantee that the supply of 7...Jim Fritsch of Poseidon Adven­-Paterno. Dohertv. Horton and stancling--,tart at the free throwfor the upcoming season. The price lmH'r arena seats will still be ture who guarded Batton knew his Pohlen. The llC\1' AWT man is Rvan line. the anglcd·dunk and the basicper game remains ·,2 for lower a1·ailablc when students return. 
opponent well. The two arc Pang­Sullivan. a competant eno~gh free ~t~·lc dunk.
arena scats and $1.50 lor bleacher There is the possibility that all 
born Hall roommates ... Jeff
-.cab as it wa!'. last season. This lower arena scats will be sold 

"Floyd" Pink of Nutmcggers tied a
compares to a public reserved scat during the spring. and only bleach­
Bookstore semi-tina! record when
price of $4 and $3. er scats will remain in the fall. 
he did not attempt a shot from the
The season ticket will be good for Those wbhing to sit together 
tield... Kevin Doherty was spotted
Ib home games, including the must either place their deposits at 
giving the tirst autograph in Book­
That Time Again
annual battle with UCLA and the same time this spring or buy 
store history... Kcvin Murphy was
games with South Carolina and the their tickets consecutively during 
an unsung hero when he came
Bill Cartwright-led San Francisco the fall. The Ticket Office will 
down from the stands to rcferree
Dons. This compares to 14 home accept only one ID and one B-baII Tickets
=======================================================================================================· 
games last year. The Irish will play payment from each individual. the first game when the scheduled It's that time of the year again, time to buy season basketball tickets for one game at home that will referee was a no-show... WNDU next season. This year, as has been the case in each of the past two years,
Married students desirous of 
has beaten WSBT to the punch for the total price for a ticket has increased. The increased price each of thenot be: included in the season purchasing adjacent tickets for the distinction of anchor station on last two years hascauscda great deal offuror among Notre Dame students,
pa~s. their spouses must waive class the Bookstore network. WNDU had and more than likely it'll do the same this year.
Students wishing to reserve a priority and wait until the fall Bookstore G.M. Tim Bourret on the But it shouldn't. The actual price per game has not increased over lastlower arena ticket for the upcoming semester, at a time and place to be news Wednesday night and has season's price. The reason for the total increase in price is simply anseason can do so at the Ticket Sales announced. Tickets for married 
scheduled tilmed coverage of last 
increased number of home games. Last year there were 14 home gamesWindow on the second floor of the students will be $24 plus $28 for the night and tonight's activities... included on the season's ticket at a cost of $28. that's $2 per contest.
ACC next week: present juniors on spouse's ticket. 
A surprise guest at the semis last Next season there will be Ib home games included on the season's pass at · Tuesday April 27 from 9 a.m. to S St. Mary's students will also 
night was Anthony "JoJo" Hunter 
a cost of$32, that's still only $2 per tilt. This compares to public reservedp.m.: present sophomores on have an opportunity to buy season 
an outstanding player at Mackin seat price of $4 and $3.
Wednesday from 9 a.m. to noon; tickets in the fall. The price will be 
High in Washington, D.C. the 
Ticket Manager Mike Busick is a good man,one of the best I know here.
graduate and law students on the same as for Notre Dame same school that produced the He understands the problems students have financially and does his bestWednesday from I p.m. to S p.m.; students, $24. However. only 
patron saint of the Bookstore, 
to offer the best possible deal at the lowest possible price. As an exampleand present freshmen on Thursday bleacher scats will be available for 
Austin Carr. Hunter's purpose in 
of his efforts to accomodate students. he made arrangements for students
frnm 9 a.m. to noon. Bleacher sale. 

atteuding the games is unknown. who can't afford to purchase tickets this spring to simply pay a despoit or wait to buy their tickets in the fall. TONIGHT'S GALA CLIMAX 
Under the direction of Digger Phelps Notre Dame has an excellent 
The two week festival of hoop basketball program, one that is a legitimate contender for the national comes to an end tonight. championship almost every year. Notre Dame basketball is a bargain at CONSOLATION GAME-Posedion almost any price. Thousands of alumni and fans are refused tickets every 
Adventure vs. Nutmeggers at 5:30. 
year in order that the students can all attend the games. The University
An interesting game although its could make more money by selling season tickets to alumni and fans and hard to judge with what intensity forgetting about the students. Lots of schools, such as Marquette and teams will play in a consolation UCLA, don't sell season tickets to students. game. Look for Laimbeer to flash So Jet's not complain about the price of a season basketball ticket this his best form but it may not be year, instead let's thank Mike Busick for making sure that students have enough. RICK'S PICK -Nutmeg­the opportunity to purchase season tickets at a reasonable price. 
gcrs 21-18. 
FINALS-TILCS vs Average White ****************** 
Team at 6: IS. A great deal of credit has to go to Tim Bourret and his staff for their 
What a set of match-ups! Basket­work organizing the Bookstore Basketball Tournament. The tourney ball players Bill Paterno and Dave opene~ play with over 200 teams and has run smoothly throughout, Batton burly football players Pat producmg some fine basketball along the way. 
Pohlen and John Dubenetzky. gun­The tournament is important to the Notre Dame campus. Like it or not ners Kevin Doherty and Billy Sahm (and I do), this campus is incredibily athletically oriented.ln the fall and and unknowns Ryan Sullivan and winter football and basketball keep the student body occupied, but there Tom Kirby form the similarities isn't a spring sport that can do the job. The Irish track team is improving. while a study in contrast is cool. but students just aren't overly interested in track and the Irish baseball calculating Kevin Horton against team is disappointing at best. So what'~ left? Bookstore basketball. the flamboyant physical talents of Besides creating interest on campus, it does something more important enigmatic Dave Kelly. It all adds it allows the frustrated jocks of the University their chance at the big up to the best final in tournament time, their opportunity to meet a major college athlete on the field of history. battle. Bookstore basketball is probably responsible for the making and 
The two teams met last year in breaking of more egos than any other event on campus.




the quatertinals on Lyons 11. All considered, Bookstore basketball is a goodtime for all. Win or lose, 
Ticket Manager Mike Busick has released season ticket information Average White Team downed you have toappreciate the fine job that Tim Bourret and his staffhavedone for the 1976-77 basketball season. (Photo by Paul Clevenger] TILCS 21-17 with the most memor-with this year's tournament. 





