SMC council defeats extra finals study day 
-to provide a channel between by Pat Payne the individual major and student Staff Reporter government. 
The Saint Mary's Student Aca­It was recommended that the demic Council (SAC) met for the representatives request to sit in on first time last night and voted down some departmentmeetingsto repre­a proposal recommending that the sent the students' views. The 
last class day of the second representatives are also required to semester be moved up to allow for hold two meetings per semester three · uninterrupteu study days with the majors in their depart­before finals. ments. 
Cathy Coyne, vice-president for academic affairs and chairman of Coyne emphasized that these the SAC. initiated the proposal to meetmgs are important because switch classes on Monday. May 9 the representative's job is to "re­to Saturday. May 7 because of present students in her major and student request. bring their views back to the 
SAC representatives. one from Council." She added, "Up to this each of the 19 academic depart­point there was no way for students ments. expressed opposing views to get together. The chairmen got on the matter. Rose Marie Beck­together, but never the students lcnberg stated. "No matter which from individual departments." way you look at it. it's still the same Coyne pointed out SAC's rela­nu~1bcr of study days. It just tionship to the College. "We're a depends on how well the student policy-making, revision-making budgets her time." council." he said. Anything we 
Cathv Callas added, "There is vote on or recommend is sent to the always. a problem with getting office of academic affairs. Any­students to go to a Saturday class. thing the academic affairs office many faculty members are also proposes must go through us opposed to it." (SAC)." 
Another representative pointed "I don't wnat us to be a out. "Students are really pressured watchdog,'' Coyne continued. 


The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Volume XI, No. 61 Wednesday, December 8, 1976 
IRS redefines free education as taxable compensation 
by Marian Ulicny "it operates a hardship only on independently of our elected repre­
Staff Reporter independent schools. A state sentatives in Congress." university is generally able to pay 3. Proposed IRS action i~ its faculty more than a private one "prejudicial to an i~ula1ed group"
The Internal Revenue Service because it is using tax money. This which holds "minimal opportuni­(IRS) has proposed a change in a is a fringe benefit we have tradi­ties for deductions.'· tax law requiring college professors tionally offered that they never 4. Tax changes will have "a to pay income tax on any tuition offered. In a sense, at state particularly severe effect on privateremission granted by their schools. schools, the children are receiving education, where tuition is neces­
Currently, tuition-free educa­the benefit from the taxpayers." sarily higher." Tuition remission 
at the end of the semester. There "We're here only to better the tion, a standard fringe benefit at "We feel very strongly about plans are one method a privateisn't enough time to prepare for academic departments and should many colleges and universities, is this for two reasons," Burtchaell college may use ''to compete for finals. I really think all the work with them," she said. considered a nontaxable scholar­noted. "We think our faculty and quality faculty who may .otherwise 
students must be-polled.·' Three ad-hoc committes were ship. The proposed change in tax administrators should be able to find the conditions of educatingGail Mandell. assistant vice­formed at the meeting. One was 
regulations, retroactive to Nov. 2, offer their children the thing to their children impractical or im­initiated to set down specific goals 
president of academic affairs was would redefine this free education which they have devoted their possible if they choose to accept an 
present at the meeting. She stated for SAC. Another was formed to as a taxable compensation. life." 
appointment at a private school." 

that negotiations are presently investigate students' rights here According to law, the proposal "Secondly, our fringe benefit James Robinson, professor of underway to allow for more study and the third to investigate the cannot be adopted until the IRS policy is based on the presumption English and president of the Notre days in future years. The present establishment of an honor system specifies a time period in which that anyone going into higher Dame AAUP chapter, requested
academic calendar. which will be in to help curb cheating and plaga­citizens may generate their opin­education forfeits probable higher that faculty members interested in effect for two years, allows for no rism. ions concerning the measure. The renumeration elsewhere,'' he writing to the IRS contact him for a 
study days before fall finals and Mary Lou Bilek, student body deadline for comments is Dec. 17, added. "We wish to protect them copy of the statement to use as a one study day before spring finals. president, commented on the suc­after which the IRS will make its 
from enormous expenditures com­guideline. Comments should be Coyne also set down some of the cess of SAC's first meeting. final ruling. 
ing periodically in life with which submitted in writing (preferably six objec"tives of the SAC. which was '"Ifnothing else. the representa­they couldn't cope such as medical copies) to Donald C. Alexander,
formed to uphold the academic tives came to a clear understanding Blow to independent schools expenses, disability, higher educa­Commissioner of Internal Reven­rights of the College of what their role is.'· 
tion for their children and retire­ues, Attention:CC:LR:T. Washing­
-to evaluate present academic Coyne concluded, "Response in­According to Fr. James Burt­ment.'' ton, D. C. 20224. creased as the meeting progressed. 
polides and initiate and develop chaell, University Provost, if the According t() Burtchaell, Fr. "It's the ultimate effects on 
student body policies according to I'm really excited about the coun­tuition remission plans are taxed, Theodore Hesburgh, University education I worry about," Robin­
student needs. cil." 
president, is asking for the ruling son stated. "The more expanding to be reconsidered. Hesburgh and tampering of the fundamentalNo pointed ears consulted University attorneys in idea of what a scholarship is will drawing up a formal statement. affect those who receive scholar­"It's a legal problem, and we've ships. To me, that's more impor­been working on it for three tant than the fringe benefit idea."
Nimoy draws large crowd 
weeks," Phillip Faccenda, General According to Link, ''the basic Counsel. stated. "We're sending question is whether or not a by Drew .J. Bauer , in a statement of Fr. Hesburgh's scholarship should be exempt from 
many ofthemhave become reality. hopeful?"
Staff Reporter views by Friday." tax. There will be serious problems 
''I'm sure that you have heard of a "When the show first came on," Faccenda stated he hoped other in any education if it is not. It willEmerging unscratched from story that dealt with a planet which Nimoy continued, "it was con­campus groups would respond in a be highly detrimental to privatecountless battles with the Klingons was producing so much pollution sidered a children's show. Then coordinated effort to protest the education."
and minus his pointed ears, Mr. that the people had to go under­the adults started to watch it. 
IRS proposal. "I'd encourage as "You must also consider theSpock (alias Leonard Nimoy) ap­ground to survive," he stated. There are more people watching many responses as possible," he question of the social ramificationspeared in Stepan Center last night "Well, there was a story in The the show now than there was when 
added. of scholarships," Link added.
and told a crowd of about 700 New York Times about how the it was on during prime time.'' 
"There are all kinds of companystudents that science fiction is Acropolis was being dismantled [Continued on page 11] AAUP Makes Objections scholarships, state subsidies andrapidly becoming a reality. 

corporation subsidies to employ­"We live in a science fiction age, The Executive Committee of the ees' children. Where would thethe gap between science fiction and Notre Dame chapter of the Ameri­definition end up?"

science fact is closing rapidly'. We can Association of University Pro­are iiving through many of the fessors (AAUP) has prepared a "There are very complex legalstories science fiction writers wrote statement to the IRS after consulta­issues involved in differentiatingabout not long. ag~; ideas tion with the AAUP national office, between the economic and legalthat people thought were David Link, dean of the Notre standpoints," Link noted. "Cer­far-fetched then," Nimoy said. 
Dame Law School, and Thomas tainly, in one sense, any scholar­"A couple of monts ago, "Nimoy Shaffer, professor of law. The ship is considered a benefit, yetrelated. "I was with the rest of the statment submits four major ob­there is a very subtle legal question cast from "Star Trek" and we were jections to the IRS proposal: there as to who recives the benefitinvited to California to where they 1. Tuition remission programs and is it a taxable benefit.'' 
were rolling out the new Space are defined as "scholarships forShuttle Enterprise. Are you fami­the benefit of the students in­"My basic opinion regarding the lar with that name?" 
volved, not a compensation for matter is that the IRS should not "Yes," the crowd roared back. 
services rendered by the faculty change this through administrative "Well. this is the next step in members whose children are procedure," Link concluded. 
space, called Enterprise, after the granted the scholarships." "They should go to Congress and ship we had in our TV show," 
• 2. Tuition remission plans have re-examine the definition of Nimoy explained. "President Ford been accepted by Congress and the 'scholarship' for tax purposes. In decided it would be a good political IRS since 1954. A change in their the end, this affects the entire move to capture the Star Trek vote, tax status is "inappropriate for an question of what are scholarshipsand if he had made a few more 
LEONARD NIMOY agency to make arbitrarily and and fellowships." 
good moves, he might have been elected." Nimoy said. and how future visitors will only Proposal·· A "Real Tax" 
The star of the late 60's TV series see a cast of the original. The discussed what was so remarkable pollution in the air was eating away 

r~;~;rh;ob~;~;;--, 
If enacted, the IRS proposalat the marble. Just think what theabout the shuttle. "All the other indicates "a very real tax." accord­ships we had took off, landed, and air is doing to the Greek people." 

I page 3 .... report on security I ing to James Witten bach, associate then went to a museum. The Nimoy then talked about his hit professor of accounting. "It will 
shutt1e will land, like an airplane TV series. 
I at Indiana colleges I affect Notre Dame, as I understand andwill be able to take off a week People are always asking me it, as a tuition waiver being treated 
later." what made Star Trek so success­
I I 
as income So if the tuition is valued ''It will completely change the ful," he said. "Well, I don't know. 1pages 5, 6, 7.... Business school I at around $3200 at Notre Dame, the economy of space. Companies will Maybe because the show was professor is required to include 

want to buy time and space on the hopeful. It was set in the 22nd 1 supplement I $3200 as graduated income for each ship to do research. Anybody will century and we were still around. 
child attending Notre Dlme," he 

be able to go into space, not just We faced all kinds of problems ­
lpage 12 .... the Irish basketball team _j explained. "Ifthe professor was in 
astronauts.'' racial, economical, environmental, 
the 30 percent tax bracket, he Nimoy continued on the topic of technological -and we are still wins fourth straight would owe the IRS approximately
old science .~ _, '1 tales and how around. What could be more 
$960."
L 
Wednesday, December 8, 1976
the observer 



In Wisconsin 


r----News Briefs---.... 
t====:::::=:::::::::=::::====:::::=::::=======::: National 
San Francisco [AP] · The California Supreme Court ruled yesterday that the state's death penalty is unconstLtutional in light of the recent U.S. Supreme Court decisions. 
The unanimous decision. written by Chief Justice Donald R. Wright. held that California's capital punishment law is invalid since it violates current 
U.S. Supreme Court guidelines regarding impositon of the death penalty. 
.,.__On Campus Today-­
12:15 pm -daily advent mass, celebrated by rev. robert griffin, 
i·  3.25 pm­ 
3 30 pm­ 
3.30 pm -4 30 pm­ 
4 30 pm- 
I l  5 pm-5:15pm­ 

Iafortune ballroom 

lecture, "ion exchange catalysis and matrix effects" by dr. a.r. pitochelli, project manager, sugar and pharmeceuticals, rohm and haas, rm 269, chem. eng. bldg. 
lecture, sr. evelyn jegan from "bread tor world movement " sponsored by world hunger coalition Iafortune ballroom 
computer course, "pl/1" rm 115, computer center­math bldg. 
seminar, "asm -what's in it for me?" by dr robert acker, american society for microbiology, wash. d.c., 278 biology aud. 
reilly lecture, "light scattering by gases and liquids" by prof. a. d. buckingham. rm 123, nieuwland science hall. 
holy day mass, feast of the immaculate conception, fr. william toohey, celebrant, sacred heart church 
mass, for world hunger coalition tasters, walsh chapel 
7 pm -meeting committee for fair election, 1st floor, Iafortune. 
7,9, & 

11 pm -film, "shampoo" eng. aud 
7:30pm-american scene, art film by andre girard, norman Iaiiberte. commentator: sr. rose ellen, esc, smc art dept carroll hall. 
8:15-concert, notre dame orchestra, wash. hall 

%The Observer 
Night Editor: Joe Bauer Asst. Night Editor: Frank L, Kebe, Jr. layout Staff: P.aul Shappler, Brian Doyle Editorial layout: John Mur­phy Sports Layout: Paul Steven­son Typists: Mel Celeste, Ann Giere, Joan Martel Night Controller: Martha Fanning Day Editor: Joe Gill Copy Reader: Pat Cole Ad Layout: Pat Russell 
Features Layout: W.S. Nic­hols, ( One last time' ) 
Supplement Staff: Barb Breitenstein, Pat Cole, martha Fanning, Chris Smith, Val Zurblis 


Sparks named to state advisory committee 

David E. Sparks, director of libraries at Notre Dame, has been named to a state advisory commit­tee planning the integration of library services in Indiana. 
Sponsored by the U.S. Depart­ment of Health, Education and Welfare, the study will seek to develop a plan for Indiana to integrate and improve library ser­vices throughout the state and to coordinate statewide development with the National Program for Libraries and Information Science. 
The study is under the direction of Harold E. Baker, director of libraries at Indiana State Universi­ty, Terre Haute. 


Swine flu strikes again 
ATLANTA (AP) .:... Government scientists said ,yesterday that ;1 Wisconsin farm worker had the first confirmed case of swine flu this fall and investigators are looking for signs of the illness among other residents of the Brodhead, Wis., area. 
"Further investigation is neces­sary before the signifigance of the swine flu can be assessed," said Don Berreth of the national Center for Disease Control (CDC). "There is, however, no indication that there is extensive upper respiratory illness in that area." 
The swine flu suffered during Thanksgiving week by Don Harris, a 23-year-old Brodhead farm em­ployee who has recovered, was diagnosed by Dr. Bernard Easter­day, a University of Wisconsin influenza expert who had gone to the farm to check an outbreak of swine flu among hogs there, Ber­reth said. 
Harris said that he did not feel any more ill than he did when eh had flu before and really did not think he was very ill. 
Easterday confirmed that several of the hogs had the disease, but the CDC has not decided for sure how Harris _got the illness, he said. 
There have been instances in the past of persons contracting the disease from working with hogs. 
A Concordia, Mo., telephone lineman, Larry Hardison, is believ­ed to have suffered the disease and recovered in October but that could not be confirmed, Berreth said. 
Tests on Hardison's blood showed a rise in antibodies against swine flu, an indication that he had had the disease, Berreth said. But he said throat tests which might have shown viral infection, as they did in Harris' case, could not be taken because Hardison recovered before it was suspected he had swine flu. 
Three CDC epidemiologists have gono from Concordia to Brodhead to h ·estigate the illness, and the federal agency plans more blood tests on Harris, he said. 
The first blood tests on the Wisconsin man did not show a significant rise in swine flu antibo­dies, but Berreth said that was not necessarily a contradictory finding because the antibodies build only gradually after the illness occurs and might be forming now. 
The CDC confirmation of swine flu in the area has prompted 
1ht· Obwr\t'r 1' publ"ht·d Mondd\ 
lhrough I ncf<~1 .md v.t•l'kl~ dunng tlw '>Umnwr "'~'1on, ''" t•pl dunng lht> P\.1111 dnd \dCdtlon p•·nod' The Ob'>t'rVPr" publ"h<'d 01 '>luch•nh ui tht• UniV<'r"ll ol Nolrf' Darn<' dnd S! Marv ' Collt>gt• ')uh'>Cnptlon> md\ b.. pun ha., .. d lor $2\l pt•r y>"ar ($HI pt>r '''me'>tt>r) !rom lht> Ob.,.•r­lil'r. !lox Q, NotrP DamP, lnd1and 4b'i'ih St-tond dd'>'> po,ldgt• pa1d, Notrl' Damt>, Indiana 4h'i'ih 
Tht> Ob~f'rvt'r I'> d nwmbl'r of thl' A'~oc ldtPd Prp;; All rPproduc t10n nghh arf' n•"•rvt>d 
Allen as 'The Front' 
* STARTS FRIDAY* Double Feature! ! 

I Will, I Bill
.............. 
I. 6:45 10:20 SAT. 6 :00 · 10 :00 
FRI. 8:30 Sat. 8:00 SUN. 6:00 only due Kiddie 
SUN. 10:00 only due KID· matinee & SNEAK PRE· 
KIE MATINEE & SNEAK VUE! 
PREVUE 


Special Sun. only -8:00pm -Sneak Prevue! 
~)§t£!i#f;l-ii;T3;1t~ 


Come at 6:00 -See All 3 Features! 
Now .. The world's favorite story is finally a tory! 
ALL THE PRESENTS IN THE 
WORLD CAN'T SHOW YOUR FEELINGS AS WELL AS AN OBSERVER 

CHRISTMAS CLASSIFIED 
1 0 words for $1 .00 CHRISTMAS ISSUE -DEC 1 0 
concern ~mong other residents of 
Green County, Public Health Nurse 
Jean Ripp said yesterday. 
"People have been calling, and 
they are concerned," the county 
nurse said. "We are encouraging 
everyone to get immunization." 
She said she expected an in­
crease in the immunization pro­
gram, with a previously unsched­
uled clinic set for today from 1 p.m. 
to 8 p.m. at Monroe. 
She said other clinics, scheduled 
earlier, will be held later this week 
in New Glarus and Monticello, and 
the flu vaccine will be administered 
in every community in the county 
next week. 

"We expect a large turnout," she said. 
As of Nov. 29, approximately 6,000 Green county residents had been immunized. Statistics show the county has 19,310 people over 18 years of age. 
Slightly more than 30 million Americans had been inoculated against swine flu by Nov. 27, according to the latest available national figures. 
The pace of inoculations in­creased the week after Hardison's apparent swine flu case was repor­ted, but the figures dropped again the next week. 
Federal officials had hoped to inoculate all Americans over 17 years of age in a $135 million immunization program begun after the disease struck Army recruits at 
Ft. Dix, N.J., last winter, one. 

killing 
Special Holy Day Mass 
IMMACULATE 
CONCEPTION 
5:00 p.m. Wed·, December 8th Sacred Heart Church 
Celebrant: Rev. William Toohey, C·S·C· 
There will also be a mass in Sacred Heart Church at 
11 :30 a.m. on Wednesday. Check hall bulletin boards for times of Masses in the dorms. 
WEEKDAYS 6:45-8:15-· . 9.:50. • . ••.••• , .••.,-.<. SAT., SUN. 2:00-3:45-5:15· '•.• '6:45·8·30·10:15 P.M. . "~ .. 
-----~----------~-----­
Wednesday, December 8, 1976 the observer 
----------~~~~~~------~ 


Security: totally responsible for safety? 
by Bob Mader Executive News Editor 
EDITOR'S NOTE: This is the first of a two-part series probing the security procedures on various Indiana coUege campuses. Today's article discusses the reactions of university officials to a court ruling. Tomorrow's story will take a look at the security forces vs. the rapist. 
A female law student at Catholic: University in Washington, D.C., was raped in a gymnasium locker room at midday on a Saturday this 
*
Observer 
Insight 

past year. She consequently sued Catholic University for failing to prevent the rape and was awarded $20.000 by a jury, reports the Chronicle of Higher Education in its Oct. 4, 1976 issue. 
Catholic University is presently appealing the verdict and The Consortium of Universities of the Washington Metropolitan Area has decided to file a friend of the court brief. All these universities are concerned about the case because the jury in its verdict gave no indication how the university had been negligent or what it could have done to prevent the rape. 
The verdict and the still uncer­tain conclusion of the case has many university administrators concerned and confused. Richard 
C. Applegate, Catholic University's vice-president for financial affairs said in the Chronicle account that the university's concern was that the case appeared to establish ''a standard of care where none had existed, explicitly, before." He continued, "Do we have a greater obligation to our students than the metropolitan police has to other residents of Washington?" 
A number of officials at Indiana colleges and universities agree that the Washington case has them also concerned and confused. "Catho­lic University is asking the court if they must be the insurer of everyone's saftey," said Notre Dame University Counsel, Philip Faccenda. He pointed out that most recent court cases had placed less responsibility on the universi­ty. and that the Washington case is a step in the opposite direction. Cliff Travis, university counsel at Indiana University at Bloomington A recent court case has Universities across the country worried about the role of their campus security forces. [photo from archives] 

agreed with Applegate. "The ded four years ago that such a suit universtiy was held liable for the was probable and the result is the act of another--that's the striking type of security system here today, thing,'' he said. Faccenda noted. Frederick Kru-Notre Dame administrators deci-ger, vice-president for business 

ND has no policy for ice injuries 
by David O'Keefe Staff Reporter 
According to University Counsel Dr. Phillip Faccenda, there is no established University policy de­signed to deal with student injuries caused by slipping in icy condi­tions. 
"If someone sues the Univer­sity," Faccenda said, "I obviously have to defend the University. But there is no set policy regarding this type of accident." 
The legal rule commonly invoked in such cases is the common-law tradition of negligence liability. The rule is intended to protect an innocent victim from injury caused by the negligent behavior of a property owner. 
But according to Faccenda, this rule has been consistently inter­preted by Indiana courts in favor of the property owner in such cases. 
''A  man  can  let  snow  pile  up  
forever  and  still  not  be  liable,"  
Faccenda commented.  

It is doubtful whether the Uni­versity would be held liable if such litigation were ever brought about by the victim of such a mishap. 
Faccenda explained that the standards used by the court in determining liability under the rule are the behavior of "the right-
thinking man taking reasonable care that his property doesn't 
present a danger to people." The extensive snow-removal service 
that the University employs would ..,.~l:"''ll=t~~.§II~.JI;<t-"k:r1~r4~~A-IIR-~~-~~~~-~I!I=~~r-t
most likely meet such standards. 




Campus View Apartments 
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT 
2 Bedroom Vacancies Semester Leases 

$300.00 PER MONTH 
Office Open 9am -4pm Monday thru Friday 
Phone: 272-1441 
... '' 

:' ·.... 

affairs at Valparaiso University and I.U.'s Travis did not anticipate the lawsuit, however. "The result is surprising," Travis said. 
The officials are likewise uncer­tain of what the result of the appeal will mean for universities across the country. "If universities are going to be held liable, where do the courts expect the universities to take this?" Faccenda asked. "Must they totally insure safety?" 
Travis compared the case to a classroom discussion which turns into an argument and finally to a fistfight in which a student is injured. The injured student then sued the university because the professor did not prevent the fight in the first place. Travis noted that this is the first case he has encountered in which an institution is liable for the act of another. 
Faccenda hypothesized that the jury subjectively applied a very high standard of security because the case involved a crime against a woman and because the crime was, to a certain extent, predictable. Stricter security is called for in buildings frequented by women in an unguarded situation, he said, such as a dorm where they are· sleeping or in locker room facilities. 
The ultimate test the jury ap­plies, though, Faccenda explained, is "what would a reasonable pru­dent person have done in the same situation.'' 
Travis said he assumed the jury found that Catholic University had been careless after looking at the case. "If the university had a watchman at the gymnasium and he heard screams, but did nothing, that would be something (which could be considered negligent)," he said. 
The incident at Catholic Univer­sity took place inside a building. Faccenda remarked that it is rea­sonable to provide security inside a building frequented by women, whereas it is much more difficult to guard open areas. Notre Dam e administrators have been discussing possible ways to provide security in open areas for the past three years. however, h.:: noted. 
Otis Romine, business manager for Indiana University at South Bend, agreed that most judges and juries feel that institutions have 
greater  responsibility  to  protect  
buildings then they do to  protect  
their grounds.  

But while university officials are uncertain what the state of the law may be right now, they and their security personnel are sure of themselves when it comes to keeping the bad guys off campus. 
Tomorrow: Security vs. the Rapist. 




CHRISTMAS 
WILL BE HERE SOONER THAN YOU THINK···· SO DO YOUR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING AT THE 

CHRISTMAS BAZAAR 
Dec 7 8 & 9 
• ' ' 

·n LeMans Lobby
1 

Sponsored by SMC Social Commission 
sent•or bar 


presents 
their first annual christmas bash! tonight 8 -2 gin&tonics $.25 8 -9 
all gin, whiskey and scotch drinks $.50 9-12 beers $.30 all night!! free christmas gifts to all christmas music & prizes provided 
-this is our last night open this semester ­thanks for all your patronage, and see you registration night 
..... ~ ~ ~· "': ..., _, -'":1.. r!' ~ 'I ' ~ ~ -~ • ·-~ 'r.·" lf-T"!: ' ' -~ •· Jo;'J~-Jk l I ' ! .-J' 
Wednesday, December 8, 1976
the observer 



Washers, dryers top HPC meeting 
by Bob Mader Executive News Editor 
Bro. Just Paczesny, vice-presi· 
dent for student affairs, will an­
nounce the decision on laundry 
facilities for male students at the 
end of the week, Student Body 
President Mike Gassman told the 
Hall Presidents' Council last night. 
Gassman said that the men will most likely get the washers and dryers, but the location for them has not yet been decided. 
University officers also discussed the cable television proposal at their last meeting, Gassman re­ported. University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh has termed the proposal "a good one," and said the only problem is its expense, the SBP said. 
However, Thomas J. Mason, vice-president for business affiars and Dr. James W. Frick, vice president for public relations and development, told Gassman that they would investigate funding the $500.000 project. A decision on the proposal is expected the first part of next semester. Gassman said. 
Anne Thompson of the Campus Lighting ad hoc committee told the HPC she was shown a 1973 master plan for new university lighting by Vincent Fraatz of Maintenance which states that new lighting is to be installed in the quad surrounded by Zahm, Cavanaugh, St. Ed's and the Administration Building. The area was listed as the "number one priority" for new lighting in 1973, but no work has been done, Thompson said. 
Areas also listed on the master plan are the sections between the 

architecture building and Lake Dr., 
between the Rockne building and 
Lyons Hall, between Sacred Heart 
Church and the Administration 
building and the Grotto. 

Thompson also reported that 
Arthur Pears, director of security, 
told her he would like to have 
"boulevard lighting" from the east 
gate down Juniper and Dorr Roads 
to the main gate, and from the 
Grotto between the lakes to U.S. 
31. The money is not available for such a project, however, Pears told her. 
Gynecologist 

John O'Lear from the council's Infirmary Advisory Board reported that the infirmary now has a gynecologist. Dr. S.E. Bechtold, a semi-retired South Bend gynecolo­gist. has been working on with the staff for five weeks and he has seen 22 patients. 
Dr. Bechtold comes in Tuesday mornings between 9 a.m. and noon and requires and appointment. Dr. Leslie M. Bodnar, an orthopedic surgeon, will treat broken bones so students no longer have to go to St. Joseph County Hospital for such treatment. Students, however, must pay for Dr. Bodnar's services, unlike other infirmary services. 
Gassman told the hall presidents that an information and survey packet would be sent to all students at the beginning of next semester. The packet contains a disciplinary procedure flow chart showing stu­dents what options they have if they get into trouble with rectors or Dean of Students James Roemer. 
The packet also contains a survey on use of LaFortune Student Center and -.uggestions for its improve­ment. Typical questions ask stu­dent opinion on the Art Depart­ment's use of the fieldhouse, present uses of LaFortune, how often the students use LaFortune, and the need for specialty shops such as a small flower shop, tobacco shop, 24 hour bank machine or a newspaper stand. 
A Christmas tree will be decora­ted near LaFortune Thursday night, the SBP said. After Univer­sity Chaplain Fr. Robert Griffin suggested the project, Student Government raised approximately $200 for decorations. Refresh­ments will be served and hopefully 
University  Provost  Fr.  James  T.  
Burtchaell will turn  on  the lights,  
Gassmaq said.  

Keenan Awarded Rockne Trophy 
Keenan Hall has been awarded the Rockne Trophy for the month of November, HPC Chairman J.P. Russell announced. The selection committee commended Keenan for the New Keenan Revue, the North Quad Party, Thanksgiving Dinner for the North Quad, Alabama Parents reception and the construc­tion of its food sales. Breen-Phil­lips was recognized as a strong runjler up for the award with its Sadie Hawkins Dance, Biggest Turkey on Campus contest and its Hall Picture. 
Other reports to the ~:f'C includ­ed the formation of a new shuttle­bus committee which will be direct­ly involved in the operation of the service. The committee will draw up a schedule and publish it, and put up bus stop signs with the scheduled arrivals printed on them, Gassman said. The Ombudsman Service will 
High court declares: 
Pregnancy time not sick leave 
WASHINGTON [AP] -Company 
disability and sick leave programs 
do not have to include coverage for 
pregnancy, the Supreme Court 
ruled yesterday. 
The court said in a 6-3 decision 
that a General Electric disability 
benefits plan that excludes preg­
nancy coverage does not violate the 
Civil Rights Act or the equal 
protection safeguards of the 
Constitution. 
The decision brought immediate 
reaction from women's rights 
groups, with Ka_ren DeCr?w, 
president of the Natwnal Orgamza­
tion for Women, called it "insult­
ing to every mother in the coun­
try." 

Glee Club to serenade women 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will .serenade to the women's dorms 
tonight beginning in front of Lyons 
at 10 p.m. 
Last night, the Glee Club seren­
aded to the St. Mary's halls. Club 
President Paul Fisher commented 
that the whole club really enjoys 
the annual sojourn to the women's 
halls, saying, ''The guys just don't 
appreciate us." 
The Glee Club also plans a concert at the Memorial Library some time during finals week, and they will travel to Chicago this Saturday night for a re-taping of an albuin to be released next fall by Universal Studios. 

"The court stated that men and women are treated equally under such a plan because, if a man is pregnant. he will be treated in the same manner as a woman. Such a definition of sex discrimination is indeed unique." she said. 
Linda Dorian. the attorney who wrote a brief on behalf of the Federal Equal Employment Oppor­tunity Commission in support of wom~n workers. called the decision "the most significant reversal women's rights groups have had in the courts." 
And, David J. Fitzmaurice, president of the International Union of Electrical Workers, said he will seek legislation to make discrimination because of pregnan­cy illegal. 
A GE spokesman at company headquarters in Fairfield, Conn. said "we're very pleased" with the decision. He declined to estimate how much it would save the company. 
The decision, according to GE's arguments throughout the long legal battle, saved American indus­try $1.2 billion a year. 
''Gender-based discrinination does not result simply because an employer's disability benefits plan is less than all-inclusive," Justice William H. Rehnquist said in the court's majority opinion. 
Chief Justice Warren E. Burger and Justices Potter Stewart, Byron 
R. White, Lewis F. Powell, Jr. and Harry a. Blackmun concurred. Justices William J. Brennan, Jr., 
Do you want to be 

A CATHOLIC? 
Please call 283-6536 or 283-382() for information about the Notre Dam_e Catechumenate Program 
Thurgood Marshall and John Paul Stevens dissented. 
Brennan took the court's major­ity to task for ignoring what he said was a long history of GE discrimi­nation against women workers. He called the company's "Discrimi· natory attitude" a motive in its policy. 
Brennan. the pre-eminent leadet of the court's liberal minority, noted that GE originally offered no benefit plan to female workers because in the words of one hisory of the company, "women did not recognize the responsibilities of life 
for they probably  were  hoping to  
get  married  soon  and  leave  the  
company.''  

Stevens said GE's exclusion of pregnancy from a wide-ranging plan that includes disability bene­fits for those recovering from hair transplants or attempted suicide has to be interpreted as sexually discriminatory. "It is the capacity to become pregnant which primar­ily differentiates the female from the male," he said. 
draw up a course evaluation book­Jet since the Scholastic magazine no longer has sufficient funds to produce one. 
The Student Life Council did not meet this week for lack of quorum. Student Body Vice President Mike Casey noted that members present informally considered the sugges­tion for the council to meet once every three weeks rather than biweekly as it now does. 
The Indiana Student Lobby has been working on drawing up statis­tics and training new lobbyists in an attempt to lower the Indiana drinking age, Gassman said. Jerry Klingenberger and his staff will begin lobbying in January when the legislature starts its session. 

There's nothing wrong 



with a little materialism. 
We'll admit it. One of the selling features of Army ROTC is just plain cold cash ... nearly $2000 during your junior and senior years of college. There's also t~e opportunity for full-tuition scholarships. And a $10,000 a year salary as an Army officer when you graduate. 
But we've got other good things to offer you, too. College courses which challenge you both mentally and physically. Management training and experi­ence you'll find valuable in civilian as well as military jobs. And instant leadership responsibil· ity in your first job after college. 
If any of this interests you,. check out Army ROTC. And even if you enroll just for the money, you'II graduate with something worth a lot more ... gold bars of an Army officer. 
ARMY ROTC. LEARN WHAT IT TAKES TO LEAD. 
For more information, contact: 
Captain John J. MacNeill 
283-7332 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 


ALL STAFFERS... 
If you don't come to the OBSERVER Christmas Party, 
THIS MAN WILL DIE 
When:  This Saturday from  
9 pril to 2 am  
Where:  Campus View  
Community Center  

The van will leave from the library circle at 8:30 and 9:30 and from SMC _Holy Cross at 9. 
.. 
.'. I 
' f A.·-• 



Observer Supplement 
December 8, 1976 



Is There An Over­crowding Problem? 
An Examination of the Business School 
The Observer ran two polls, one for students and one for faculty in the College of Business Administration, to find out how overcrowding, if it is a problem, is affecting the effectiveness of the business school. Close to ten percent of all junior and senior students in the business programs were polled since sophomore students have no say in class selections. The percents are rounded off. 
According to Charles McCollester, coordinator of analytical studies, the overall breakdown of teacher/student ratio for the entire University of Notre Dame in 1976-77 is as follows: Science, 157/983; Arts and Letters. 226/1840; Engineering. 94/906; Freshman Year. 238 (includes TA's)/1704; Business Administration, 57/1461. 
When asked if their business classes were overcrowded, 67 percent respond­ed yes and 32 percent said no, with one noting only some of his classes were crowded. 55 percent had no difficulty getting the courses they needed, and overcrowding has notcaused 53 percent to take courses they normally wouldn't take. The majority also thinks this does not affect their future plans; 59 percent agreed, 27 percent felt it hurt, and 12 percent were undecided. 
When asked to grade the teaching staff overall, 15 percent said they were very good, 59 percent said they were good, 19 percent said they were adequate, and 5 percent said they were fair. Most people agreed that the class size limits the teacher's effective­ness of teaching. 88 percent agreed it does, while only ?:2 percent disagreed. 
Thirty-eight percent of the faculty were questioned next. The average number of years they have taught at Notre Dame is eight. 47 percent felt the average class size has increased since they started teaching here, but 28 percent were not applicable, it being their first year here. Many said the ideal class size depends on the subject and level of class for the most effective teaching. but when specified for junior­senior courses only, the average was 28 students. The average class size now was estimated at 48. 85 percent had only one teaching assistant or grader. 
When asked if they considered their classes overcrowded now, 52 percent said no and 47 percent said yes, and 42 percent think overcrowding has affected their teaching effectiveness. There was some comment on this question. Some cited that there was a ''faculty pro­blem" (not enough teachers). "Stu­dents won't ask questions because there are too many in the class. The professor thinks people are not interested so he lectures more." (Not allowing time for questions.) "Teaching is less effective in large classes than small ones so much so that it is absurd." 
When asked to rate the overall effectiveness of the teaching in the Business College, 52 percent said very good, 19 percent said good, 9.5 percent said adequate and 9.5 percent said excellent, but in relation to the condi­tions now present in the Business College. 


by Martha Fanning Production Manager 

Enrollment in the College of Business Administration at Notre Dame has doubled witbin the past five years. according to Bro. Leo Ryan, Dean of the school. The large increase in students has caused the college to develop the highest student/fac­ulty within the University. It was reported as 28.3 to 1 in The Observer last year. 
Dean Ryan cited two factors which haye contributed to the high ratio. "We have a free admission policy to the business school, and students have been choosing it more rapidly than we have been able to keep up." commented Ryan. 
"The enrollment has doubled within the past five years without the benefit of new faculty positions until last year." 
The business school added four new intructors to the staff last year, three.new additions will be made next year and three more positions will be open for 1978-79. 
"By 1980 we hope to have the faculty/stu­dent ratio in balance," Ryan noted. 
The dean also disclosed that the increase has been proportional to the various departments within the business college: accounting, finance and business econo­mics, management and marketing. 
The effect of the ratio is hard to measure, according to Ryan, due to varying reports and teaching styles of the faculty. "I think it hurts to have too many large sections because teachers and stu­dents can not interact," Ryan stated. "It is harder for teachers when they have three sections, all of which are large." 
Ryan pointed out that large classes are not bad, "but they should be balanced with smaller classes in upper division levels," he added. The business school currently has the highest average class size of any other college at Notre Dame, and the greatest number of large classes. 
In the past few years, a demand for courses by students outside th business college has also increased. Ryan explained that the college has had to limit their enrollment to specific courses. 
"This y~ar approximately 10 sections were opened, a mixture within the four departments," the dean explained. "This semester we have restored accounting for non-business majors. We intend to continue this course and open up additional sections to non-business as the size of the faculty increases." 
Students enrolled in the college select programs consisting of 40 percent busi­ness, 40 percent liberal arts and 20 percent electives. Ryan commented that the business college itself is strong, and draws strength from the University. He cited the orientation as "strongly ethical." 
Business majors enter the college their sophomore year. The aim of this year is to acquaint the student with all the depart­mental areas. This enables students to chose their concentrate at the conclusion of their second year. 
In charge of the sophomore year program is Associate Dean Vincent Ray­mond. Within the next year Ryan hopes to acquire an assistant for Raymond. This person would "serve as an advisor, counselor, an aide to students in career guidance, and would also help students deal with the problem of adjusting," acknowledged Ryan. 
The various departments are currently reviewing the school's curriculum. "We are looking ahead to where we should be going," stated Ryan. "This may require some new courses, or new approaches. That is one of the reasons we are staging our increase in faculty over time." 
The dean is also engaged in activities to increase the finacial resources of the college of business. "I feel that the expansion program depends on outside sources," related Ryan. He added that he is encouraged by the early results. 
The College of Business Administration, founded in 1920, is a member of the American Association of Collegiate Schools of Business. Both the undergraduate and graduate programs are fully accredited. 

-------·· ­
~ 


Observer Supplement B December 8, 1976 
TheOvercrowding Problem and What is Being Done 
Nationwide 
by Mary Pat Tarpey Senior Staff Reporter 

Enrollment in business colleges across the nation has increased. According to a May, 1976 article in U.S. News and World RePort, there is more interest today in careers related to business than to liberal arts. The article said that for most people, "getting on the payroll" is top priority. Hard timn. have made the students more practical in their choice of careers. . 
And. in some schools across the natiOn. this increase in business enrollment has resulted in overcrowded conditions. 
Mrs. Marion Mcvcr, associate dean at Svracuse University School of Manage­nient. stated the enrollment in business courses has doubled in the last five years. "You can't double the amount of students and make few increases in faculty without causing problems." she commented. "We couldn't staff a sufficient amount of courses. We're using more teaching assistant'> than we ever did before." 
Mc~·cr reported that Syracuse, with 1500 undergraduate business majors. has ap­proximately a 37 to I student-faculty ~atio. 
Wake Forest's Department of Busmcss and Accountancy chairman Professor J. Hilton commcnicd that within the last three years the number of students entering business had greatly increased. Understaffing and overcrowded conditions were the result. With the student-faculty ratio at Wake Forest 28 to I, Hilton said that students experience difficulty in getting courses they need. 
Hilton c'xplaincd that part of the problem was the number of available faculty. "We have been trying without success to hire more facult~·. It is very competitive right now in that area." 
Tulane Univcrsitv in New Orleans re­ccntlv established. their undergraduate busiticss program. Dean James Murphy explains that until this year they were entirclv a masters program. "As far as overcrowding. we have been slower in noticing." he commented. "However some people here fear it." 
Emorv Univcrsitv in Atlanta is also suffering from overcrowding. According to Dr. Luoma. director of undergraduate studies. there has been a marked increase in the number of students in business. "There is. right now, an overcrowding problmn." he said. "We're building new facilities in three months and we are hiring more facultv members to accomodate the increase in ·numbers. Our class sizes are larger than we want." Emory .. has 18 business school faculty members to teach 160 undergraduates and 140 MBA stu­dents. 
On the other hand, James Diamond, dean of business at De Paul University in Chicago. felt they did not have a serious overcrowding problem for undergraduate full-time dav students, although there is more of a· problem for undergraduate evening classes. "We've added a tremen­dous number of faculty members and there isn't enough space for faculty offices. That . is a big problem also," he remarked. 

DePaul has 4800 business students 
comprised of full-time, part time and 
graduate students with 90 full time faculty 
and 25 part time faculty members. 
Dr. Virgil Boyd, dean at Loyola Univer­
sity's business program, explained they 
do not have the problem of overcrowd­
ing this year. "We have improved the 
situation. We control the size of classes 
and we have hired more teachers for next 
year. 

· According to Boyd. Loyola is "just where 
we want to be.'' With their 93 l full time 
students. Loyola's ratio is 16 students to 
every faculty member. 

Marquette University's associate dean 
of business, Dean Label, stated that 
although enrollment has increased, there is 
no overcrowding problem. Similarly, Du­
quesne University's assistant dean, Wil­
liam O'Brien said. "We have an increase 
in students but we arc not overcrowded 
vet. If the trend continues we could be." 
The present student-faculty ratio at Du­
quesne is approximately 25 to one. 
Diamond of DePaul offered an explana­
tion for the increase in business students. 
"This trend has been going on for about 
three years with no immediate stem in 
sight. There is a very definite career 
orientation in the eyes of incoming 
students. They want an education directly 
related to job opportunities ... 

Diamond added, "Recession plus a slow 
rate of growth and unemployment has 
made the young people reconsider his or 
her priorities.'' 

Luoma of Emory University remarked, 
"There is the recognition among students 
that they have to make a living. This is 
a more distinct consideration than in the 
sixties and early seventies." 

Notre Dame 
by Tom Byrne Senior Staff Reporter 
Efforts by Student Government to re­
lieve overcrowding and curriculum inade­
quacies within the College of Business 
Administration have been partly success­
ful. according to Student Body President 
Mike Gassman, but lack of funds remains 
an obstacle to more improvements. 
"We talked with Dean Ryan last year, 
and explained the problems we saw, ''said 
Gassman, who made the issue a major 
theme of his spring campaign. "He's very 
receptive and he made a few changes for 
us. It's important to thank him for what he 
did." 

Among the more important revisions 
implemented by Ryan was the opening of 
several business courses to non-business 
students for next semester. The class most 
in demand was Basic Accounting. which 
was filled by seniors on the first day of 
advance registration. 

The achievements fall short, however, of 
the variety of course alternatives that 
Gassman hopes the college can eventually 
provide. 

"The basic problem in the business college is lack of faculty," explained 
-l 
Dean Leo Ryan Gassman. "The way things are set, for us to get more faculty, the money would have to be taken from somewhere else. And that is more than just a salary; it means financing and tenure." 

''They could feasibly hire a large number of faculty," he continued, ''but when their time for tenure comes up and irl. not there, they won't want to stick around." 
Despite this problem, several new professors were added to the undergradu­ate faculty this fall. alleviating some overcrowding and providing more curricul­um options. According to Student 

Government Academic Commissioner Pat 
Tack, Ryan aims at "steadily increasing 
the faculty.'' She noted that the problem of 
too few instructors cannot be solved in one 
year. 

Tack stated that the "biggest crunch" in 
the business college involving finance 
courses, had been "really relieved." She 
explained that three finances courses are 
currently required for non-majors, and 
finance majors had previously been taking 
them all. 

Gassman observed that adminstrators 
are reluctant to commit more funds to the 
College of Business because of their 
conception of the "philosophy" of the 
University. "They believe the emphasis at 
Notre Dame is on the complete education." 
he said. "They feel that the school is by its 
nature oriented towards arts and letters.'' 
Gassman also remarked that University 
officials believe the present upsurge of 
enrollment in business is a "fad." and will 
"die out." 

Tack added that the absence of a 
permanent dean until Ryan's appointment 
last year contributed to the college's 
problems. She indicated that she was 
"very satisfied. with Dean Ryan," and 
described him as "extremely cordial." 
Overcrowding continues 
While improvements have been made 
this year, overcrowding continues to exist, 
particularly in the sophomore business 
classes. Noting the "advantages" of 
smaller classes, Gassman pointed to the 
scheduling of electives as a partial solution 
to the dilemma. 
"You 'II find a lot of business majors that 
take all their courses in the business 
college." he said. "First, this doesn't 
follow the philosophy of the University as a 
complete education. Secondly. it encour­
ages overcrowding of classes." 
Gassman advocates a "curriculum as­
sessment" of arts and letters courses, so 
business majors can be more aware of 
which classes they could take. "That will 
relieve the pressure,·· he remarked. 
The role of Student Government in academic questions. in the view of Gass­man, is to provide input for the administra­tion. "Our job is to bring to the ·administration student needs and the feelings students have toward the prob­lem," he stated. "We make suggestions 
and let them know about student needs. 
Our role is to keep presenting the 
problem." 

Tack commented that she had not 
received much feedback from the student 
body on the courses offered to non-busi­
ness majors. "For us to take action, we 
need more student input,'' she said. 

Dean Vincent Raymond 

Sophomore Studies 
by Barbara Breitenstein News Editor 

While many business students complain about overcrowding and the difficulty of acquiring cards for required courses. sophomores in the College of Business Administration do not have this problem. according to Assistant Dean Vincent Raymond. 
"Sophomores have no problem with getting the courses they want," Raymond stated. "The average class size of 40 to 47 students, but class size is related to the subject area. Overcrowding is an illu­sion." 
The business school is structured such that a student majors in Business Admin­istration, and concentrates in one of four areas: accountancy, finance. management or marketing. 
Designated as an "introduction to the basic tool and functions of business'', the sophomore year of studies consists of nine courses in business subjects and one non-business administration course. These requirements must be fulfilled prior to the student's designation of a specific area of study. According to Raymond, the sophomore year is "an integral part of the college." and covers the "basic tool courses." 
During the sophomore year. business majors are required to take Principles of Economics, Statistics, Accounting, either Principles of Management or Principles of Marketing. depending on their personal interest. an'd a free elective outside the college. The second semester courses are continuations of Economics, Statistics, Accounting II and Marketing or Manage­ment. with the addition of Basic Finance. 
Sophomores are not involved in the regular pre-registration procedures. Second semester schedules are automati­cally processed from the first semester schedule, similar to the process used by the Freshman Year of Studies. 
Because of this unique curriculum dealing with basic survey courses, sopho­more business classes are larger than junior or senior business lecture classes. There are currently 467 sophomores en­rolled in ten accounting sections. eight sections of statistics. seven marketing sections, nine management sections and two sections of economics. 
I don't know what an overcrowded class is." Raymond remarked. "I don't know what overcrowded means. Class size is relative to the subject area." 
Raymond explained that he does not think students see their classes as over­crowded because there is a lack of discussion time during class. "That might be true more for management or marketing courses, but discussion time is relative to the professor." he said. 
"I think the real problem here," Raymond continued, "is that these stu­dents think they are not getting the professor's attention outside of class. They are uptight in career thinking and looking 
for open options." 
Raymond also stated the problem might be an illusion. "They listen to other students complain about overcrowding." he explained, "and then they think there is a problem with overcrowding. It's just an impression that they have and they don't stop to check it out.'' 
"They don't know what they are saying," Raymond concluded. 
----------------------------------------~-------------------------------------------~~------------------------------------------------, 
December 8, 1976 Observer Supplement C 
The Problem of Overcrowding in the Business Departments 
Finance 
by Maureen O'Brien t Staff Reporter 

The chairman of the Finance Depart­ment. Prof. Herbert Sim, said that what­ever problem there was with overcrowding, the situation has improved very much this year. which he attributes tot he additional faculty hired. The department has increased its faculty of 14 professors by 3. Prof. Tavis, Prof. Johnson, and Prof. Halloran. Sim said the department might add another faculty member this coming year. but at the most one faculty member would be added. 
On an average. there are forty students in a classroom. Prof. Sim said that whatever problem there was with over­crowding. it has improved very much this year, which he attributes to the addition of the three professors to the faculty. 
In the finance department, a major must take Managerial Economics, Business Law, Quantitative Methods, five finance concentrates (such as Investment, Insur­ance. or Real Estate), a business elective outside the major, and either Finance 361, 
362. or 363 (Money and Banking, Govern­ment Fiscal or Business Conditions Analy­sis). 

include Business Law, Data Processing (for our professors service the other colleges able to reduce the average class size. the college requirement), Theory I & II, and also the MBA school." Appel noted that the size currently ranges Cost Accounting, and Introduction to Sequin explained that·any overcrowding from "the high 30's to low 40's.
Accounting 
Taxation and Auditing. During the senior that management students have felt is due "Hopefully we'll be able to open up 
year, students take Auditing, Taxes and to the increased number of students in other classes to non-business and non-mar­
by Maureen O'Brien CPA Coaching, and the rest of the courses other departments, especially accounting keting majors in the future," he added. 
Staff Reporter can be accounting electives or other and finance. "Because students from the Two courses available to non-marketing 
electives. other departments take core courses taught majors next semester are Social Marketing 
Last year, according to Prof. Williamson, by management professors, our faculty andlnternational 'Marketing.
Prof. Robert W. Williamson, Jr., chair­''Of about 220-230 accounting majors who might be spread too thin," he noted. The program in marketing is designed 
man of the accounting department at Notre graduated from Notre Dame, about 100-As to the possibility of increasing the to prepare students for a wide range of 
Dame, conceded that there was a minor 110 people were hired by CPA firms. size of the department, Prof. Sequin careers such as: marketing research, 
problem of overcrowding in his depart­Others went to graduate schools and some thought this would be an unwise move. pricing, merchandising, advertising, pub­
ment. He noted, however, that the others were hired by business firms other "The number of students is cyclic," he lic relations, sales force administration, 
problem has been partially corrected and than CPA firms. A few were unemployed, reasoned, ''and next year the number of public relations and sales analysis. will be completely corrected in the near about 20-30 students." All the "Big students interested in business might In order to decide what courses should future. Eight" accounting firms and many other decrease, and balance out the size of the be offered for a given semester the desires 
To begin with, the accounting depart­major firms come to Notre Dame to recruit deoartment. If we took on additional of the students are sought. "Sometimes 
ment is.hiring two additional professors for graduates. Much of the recruiting is faculty, we would then have to fire them if during the semester I take a survey of 
next year. At least nine people are being handled through the Placement Bureau. In this happened and that wouldn't be fair." marketing students," stated Appel. In the considered for the positions right now. The addition, the accounting department is Presently, there are 16 full-time and 2 survey several possible electives are listed. professors will help to reduce the over­considering the advantages and disadvan­part-time faculty members in the manage­Students are requested to indicate what crowding in the sophomore and senior year tages of offering a five-year program in the ment department. Also, there are three courses they would be interested in taking programs. accounting major, but it is still in its early non-teaching professors, deans Leo Ryan the following semester. 
This past year, the accounting depart­stages. and Vincent Raymond and-Rev. Donald After required courses are scheduled, ment worked to reduce overcrowding in the McNeil, C.S.C., who is currently teaching the department attempts to include classes junior year program, by reducing the size theology. "We have at least our fair share . of interest to students inthe upcomingof the Theory 1111 course. There used to be of good professors," commented Sequin, curriculum. "We try to include whatever four sections of the course and over 65 Management "and some of our people are quite 
the people want," emphasized Appel. The students in each section. This year, there popular." curriculum of marketing departments in are seven sections ofthe course, with 30-32 
other colleges is also examined for possible by Chris Smith 
students in each section. The accounting courses.
Asst. Managing Editor department chose to reduce the class size 

"One course which we have received in thetheory course because it is consid­
several requests for is Sales Management.ered to be an important and fundamental 
Marketing 
Presently we do not have anyone on theBusiness students who elect to entercourse in the accounting major. 
faculty qualified to teach this course," hemanagement as their field of concentration 
I
by Martha Fanning
On the other hand, Prof. Williamson explained. Appel stated that this may be a
take a ''core of courses designed to develop Production Manager A
pointed out that a course such as CPA requirement for any new staff members
acumen and skill in recogiuzing-and coping ~Coaching is one which can readily lend added in the future.
with problems arising tn the managementitself to larger sections and there is really The marketing department is also in theof business,'' according to the bulletin of The marketing department includes 16no need to reduce the size of this type of process of evaluating their curriculum,information published by the College of percent of the total number of studentsclass. 
along with other departments. The 
l
Williamson said that there was no Business Administration. enrolled in the Business College, a three re-evaluation may result in changes in theC. Joseph Sequin, chairman of the percent increase within the past five years. 
problem in the accounting major with curriculum according to Appel.
management department, commented on The total percentage is nearly double thestudents getting the courses they want. He Courses taught for students concentra­the philosophy which his department tries 
national average of nine percent.
said that maybe there would sometimes be ting in. marketing are supplemented by the to follow. "We feel our courses should be Professor David Appel, chairman of the a problem with the student getting the activities of the Marketing Club and thebusiness-oriented, yet liberal," he said. 
department of marketing, attributes thecourse at the time when he would want it, Paul D. Gilbert Lecture Series in Market­"We have the long-term career in interest in marketing to ":1 rPI:ltivelvbut he still could get the course. When ing. The purpose of the lecture series ismind," he added. "Here at Notre Dame young, dymanic student-oriented staff."
there is a great demand for a particular "to bring people in from industry towe're not so concerned with giving our There are several goals m the depart­section of a course, a lottery is held for the discuss real world situations," remarkedgraduates a 'job for sure' when they
people who want that section. ment according to Appel. The objectives Appel.
graduate; rather we want to enable them to are "to help the student (1) gain anWilliamson said that he would like to be This year the marketing department, inenjoy long and successful careers as appreciation of the growing importance ofable to offer more accounting courses to co-operation with the Mishawaka chaptermanagers in organizations.'' 
marketing in an economy characterized by 
non-business majors. At the moment, of the American Marketing Association,
Sequin explained that Notre Dame's free consumer choice on the one hand andbasic accounting is offered to non-business held a Creer Orientation Day. "Approxim­management program provides a very rapid changes in technology on the other;majors along with one section of Introduc­ately 40 students spent the day withgeneral background. This general back­(2) develop the knowledge, skill andtion to Taxation. 
several local business. The firms showedground, he feels, is the best preparation for competence required for the administra­The department is staffed by 14 profes­students their operations and discussionsthe business world that a graduate can tion of the marketing activities of asors, but at the moment, only 12 of the between the students and executives of the
have. 
business firm; and (3) realize the socialprofessors are teaching because one is ill businesses were held," commented theSequin estimated that the management responsibility of marketers for economicand the other professor is really an adjunct department chairman.
department had 140 students: about 60 and social development.
professor who teaches part time. Of the 14 The marketing department presently hasjuniors and about 70 seniors. Asked if Courses offered by the department,
professors, ten of I them have~ doctorate eight instructors: David Appel, Robert
there is overcrowding in the department, 
which are not University electives, aredegrees and 13 of them are CPA's. 
Drevs, Yusaku Furuhashi, John Kennedy,he said, "Over the past ten years, we have open only to marketing students. UsingAfter sophomore year, the junior accoun­John Mayo, Saeed Samiee, James Stock,averaged 70 seniors per year. However, this procedure, the department has beenting major must take seven courses which and John Weber.
' 
-----·--. 

-~~ -~-~-----~-~----------------­
*The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Business Manager Tom Fronczak Advertising Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor Tony Chifari Production Manager Martha L. Fanning 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Phones: (219) 283-8661 [ND] (219) 284-5365 [SMC] 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Thomas O'Neil  Editor-in-Chief  
Dan Sanchez  Managing Editor  
Chris Smith  Asst. Managing Ed.  
Gregg Bangs  Executive Editor  
Val Zurblis  Executive Editor  
Pat Hanifin  Editorial Editor  
Bob Mader  Exec. News Editor  
Maureen Flynn  Campus Editor  
Marti Hogan  St. Mary's Editor  
Don Reimer  Copy Editor  
Tim O'Reiley  Features Editor  
Fred Herbst  Sports Editor  

Wednesday, December 8, 1976 
P.O.BOXQ~ 
TRIJE, 81/T !T's 
JUSTU/1()(£{) ~ 
WAY Ya!MAKE 
PEOP/..& FEEl­
50 GIJ/t.TY.1 
~\ I 
H&E,H&&! Yl3S, tu&Lt., /TSI:ZM5 7lJ tuORK 01/T 
FOI< liS! 
\ 



Senior Fellow to Close 
Dear Editor, 
Senior Fellow nominations will close on Wednesday nite, Decem­ber 8th at the Senior Bar. Two basic trends have been expressed by the class thus far: both serious and light-hearted candidates have been nominated for the award. If you are an senior and have an interest in who will be on campus next spring, let us know by your nomination. It is the intention of the committee to best represent the senior class. 
Ron Hathaway, Chairman Senior FeUow Committee 

Sad Attitude 
Dear Mr. Herbst: 
Excuse me sir, for my lack of personality in this letter, but I am 'straining to objectively criticize your article • • Basketball at its Finest''. Objectivity and actual sports reporting do not appear to have much value to you, however ... your sports interests are too wrap­ped up in the cheerleaders. 
This is not an attack on your personal priorities. You already overtly stated your views towards women's sports, ''I'd rather have personality than a win any day." Okay Mr. Personality, my distress is the overall attitude you represent and encourage. It is obvious that your belittling ideas toward's wo­men's athletics are shared by many 1t this university. An example of this is the quality of referees the w-omen are assigned. But when a iew dedicated people work to :hange a brick wall of tradition and institute a viable program of sports for women, they deserve more than Jff the cuff and unprovoked criti­
~isms that your "sports" reporting 
1as given them. 
You criticize passivity, you criti­
·ize excitement, you criticize score­boards, you criticize a player who 
hits 16 and 13 points respectively 
(how does a single player pull off 
such a feat?), all you like were the 
cheerleaders. Lord, the saddest 
part is that your attitude is what we 
(the women and men of Notre 
Dame) are trying desperately to 
quell. 
You are dealing with a larger 
realm than that of a game between 
intense rivals. What you are pur­
porting is an attitude toward's 
women's sports and ultimately one 
of larger questions. We are at least 
trying. I wish you would go eat 
your "cute" shredded wheat and 
let us continue with our work at 
building a better Notre Dame for 
men and women. 
Betsy Carey 
Apology Needed 

Dear Editor: 
We would like to congratulate 
Fred Herbst on reaching the 
heights of poor journalism. If Mr. 
Herbst's article on the ND vs. SMC 
basketball game was intended to be 
an informative sports article, it 
failed miserably. 
If the article was intended to be an editorial, Mr. Herbst failed to base his opinion in fact. Some of the absurd statements made show his obvious lack of understanding of the spirit of the sport. The girls of both teams have worked very hard in establishing their teams. They take the sport seriously as do the many fans who support them. We feel that they deserve good reporting as do all the teams that represent Notre Dame. 
No one ever claimed that these teams would become national champs, or even try. That is not the point. The point is that any group of students who give their time and effort to particpate in a sport should be able to receive valid support from their fans and good reporting from The Observer without being ridiculed. 
We feel that Mr. Herbst and The 
Observer should apologize to the 
teams and coaches of Notre Dame 
and Saip~ Mary's for their poor job 
of reportmg. 
Cherene Smith Katie Kerwin Vicki Anderson Frances Fleddermann ResaFritz 
Cheerleaders More Than Cute 
Dear Editor: 
In response to your Sports Edi­tor's column on the N.D. vs. St. Mary's basketball game I find Mr. Herbst's words to be very harsh. So harsh in fact that if I had not viewed the fiasco in its entirety I would have felt him to be unfair to all involved. 
His column was not an attack on the women's liberation movement. It was the analysis of a basketball game. His ability to write well and cover the story precisely far excee­ded the abilities of any involved in Saturday's contest, coaches and players included. 
l myself have viewed "good basketball played by women. It was a far cry from the talents revealed on Dec. 4 in the A.C.C. 
Referring to Eileen O'Grady's rap of her "so-called boss" I say this: If you could have made that game seem less of a farce than it really was it would seem that yours was the irresponsible journalism that is so typical of that occupation. 
Mr. Herbst's statements were not all totally rash. He gave credit to the only ones who truly deserved credit. St. Mary's cheerleaders, you were more than cute. You reminded me of a student-faculty basketball game where after the first quarter the court was no longer the center of attention. 
TomPowanda 

DOONESBURY 
by Garry Trudeau 
AC/l/AUY, I'M VtR.Y OPTI­/r115T/C. A8aJT THE R/TUI?e OF P(}81..1C 8ROAIJCA5'TING. OU!l. VICPERS HAI<£3 ITCIJ/1E ~ 7HifT THERE IS A 
FOR (}{JAU7Y 
PR.06.1?AMI!IIG! 
opinion 

Irresponsible Journalism 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii gregg bangs 
Although sports stories are noto­rious for being the least objective of daily reports in a newspaper, most stories are generally not written with an overwhelming amount of partiality by the author. A sports column gives the sports writer an opportunity to express the opinions he couldn't (or at least shouldn't) show in a straight report. 
The column should be written in a responsible manner and a profes­sional tone. Sports Editor Fred Herbst was entitled to jot down his observations on this past Satur­day's Notre Dame-St. Mary's bas­ketball game. However, Mr. Herbst seemingly lost his initial purpose of criticizing the quality of play and instead produced an article full of cheap shots and back-stabbing. 
To start with, Mr. Herbst got his priorities as sports editor mixed up. 
Before one writes a column about something, it is standard practice to write a story about the game. Monday's paper carried no story about Saturday'scontest. There is no "unbiased'' report to get a picture of what Mr. Herbst was criticizing. Hence, a single para­graph recounted the game. So much for responsibility. 
Granted, the first half of the ND-SMC contest, which was viewed by this writer, was not the prettiest effort seen on a basketball floor. Yet, it was the first game of the year for both teams and they were obviously nervous and tight. Funny, I thought sports editors thought of things like that. But the second half saw the quality of play, especially shooting, improve. On the whole, the game was a lot more exciting than the boring mismatch between Valparaiso and. Digger Phelp's team that preceded it. 
What was more disturbing than Mr. Herbst's. intolerance of a different version of the big boy's game were the pot shots he took at anything connected with it. 
Perhaps the most shocking was his indictment of the coaches. AI McGuire, Tom Young and Digger Phelps are known for getting noticeably involved in the proceed­ings of a game, yet Mr. Herbst puts down ND coach Sally 11uffy for showing a little emotion. On the other hand, the St. mary's coach is damned for showing too little emotion. What does Mr. Herbst want, a status quo special? The next time he praises a coach for being flamboyant, I suggest he send Ms. Duffy and the SMC coach an apology. As a matter offact, he should send one anyway. 
Mr. Herbst did have a valid point about the officiating--it was not very good. However, he had to get "witty" and throw in a taste­less crack at midwest basketball. Lest he forget, the top two teams in the men's NCAA's last year were from the midwest. 
As for the scoreboard, the confu­sion came about because of a screw-up on the part of the official. The scoreboard operator was not completely responsible for the re­sulting error. The error was minimal when compared to the one committed by the officials in the ND-Valpo game, yet nothing was reported on that. 
It is hard to believe that in the midst of all the mud slinging, Mr. Herbst missed what could've been 
his only valid point. If anybody should be chastised for cheers, it should be ND cheerleaders for their lack thereof. The Notre Dme cheerleaders picked up their equipment and cleared out after the men's game. Instead he criticized fans who tried to make up for the lack of them. As stated, the SMC cheerleaders tried and were pretty funny. Surprising that Mr. Herbst was so generous. 
Notre Dame's and St. Mary's basketball teams have come a long way in the three years of their existence. It would be a shame to have an irresponsible column like this give a false image of their teams. Supposedly the observer Sports Staff has come along way too. Three years ago, the sports editor refused to run women's sports on his page; the reporter and photographer who covered the teams had to beg the news editor and night editor to get a game story in the news pages. 
Although the team now gets coverage on the back page, the article that appeared on Monday's issue was an insult to the two teams and the readership of the paper. Hopefully, Mr. Herbst will write a clarification of his comments. 
Otherwise,  people  will  think  his  
columns  are  a  farce.  Monday's  
certainly was.  

Wednesday, December 8, 1976 
the observer 
9 

PVCCKA~ r~MHACT~KA 
60/\bWOlll u VCnEX.t TAK )I(E KPAC~blt1 KAK 6AJ\ET! 
The Russian Gymnastic Team in action 

Records Scott Appleby
Say a Prayer for the Pretender 
I don't know what happens when people die Can't seem to grasp it as hard as I try It's like a song that I hear playing right in my ear And I can't sing it But I can't help listening. 
--Jackson Browne, "For a Dancer" 

This pre-occupation with death, hinted at in Jackson Browne's 1974 opus, Late for the Sky. is embraced head-on in his latest, and ultimately his best, most intriguing album.The Pretender. 
Lyrically and thematically, The Preten­der evokes images of a confused romanti­cist struggling to comprehend the mean­ings and motivations behind his wife's untimely suicide; in the resulting malaise and disorientation, Brown attempts to establish. at least allegorically, a cause-ef­fect relationship between the belief in love as an all-embracing, permanent reality and the consequential, inevitable death which results from such a belief. 
While this morbid conclusion portends gloom and depression, Browne begins the album with an endeavor to route it; indeed, in the eloquent "The Fuse", he rationali­zes the finality of death by asserting, with exaggerated self-confidence: Though the years give way to uncertainty And the fear of living for nothing strangles the will There's a part of me/that speaks to the heart of me Though sometimes it's hard to see/it's nl·ver far from me Alive in eternity /That nothing can kill 
· Presuming to defend his belief that the love he shared with his wife was beautiful and true, the composer revives the optill':stic imagery of Late for the Sky: in "Linua Paloma", a lilting, Mexicali-style tribute to love based on accurate percep­tion rather than ''the shadows preferred by the mind", the endless sky to which Linda Paloma flies symbolizes the fulfillment and permanence of romantic love. The requirerr ent for such love, the ability to entertain illusion about the loved one wh­ile maintaining a firm grip on reality, is, allegorically, the long highway traveled in "Your Bright Baby Blues". 
The ordering of the songs is crucial here, for Browne carefully, almost methodically, charts a course of disillusionment. Side 
Two opens with "The Only Child", in which the singer teaches his son: "Among the thoughts that crowd your mind/There 
· ·· ·won't be marry that ever really mattered.'' 
With the growing realization that his hopes for a lasting love are but a dream, Browne wails, in "Daddy's Tune": "Nothing survives--but the way we live our lives." 
The most important song on the album, however, is the touching "Sleep's Dark and Silent Gate" in which Browne !'Uc­cumbs to the passage of time and the inevitability of loveless death; in his resignation, he re-interprets the imagery of the highway, using the same phrasings within a completely different context, as if to nullify the desire for permanence. ''The Pretender", the album's closing song, forms the perfect antithesis to the buoyant spirituality of "The Fuse": the lover accepts the impermanence of romanticism and resolves to retreat to a world of illusion and cynicism. 
I'm going to find myself a girl Who can show me what laughter means And we'll fill in the missing colors In each other's paint by number dreams ... 
I want to know what became of the changes We waited for love to bring Were they only the fitful dreams Of some greater awakening? 
Musically, Browne has improved on old tricks and come up with a few new ones. The interweaving background harmonies which characterized his earlier work are present with added sophistication, owing to the refreshing vocals of Bonnie Raitt, Rosemary Butler, et a!. Jon Landau's skillful production lends expertise to the mixing of the album. For example, Jeff Porcaro's drumwork is finally given appro­priate attention without infringing on Jackson's singing or the ever-present slide-guitar which is Browne's trademark. Finally, there is greater feeling, diversity, and range in Jackson's vocal performan­ces. Case in point is "Daddy's Tune", an enthusiastic, rousing number which the singer handles with masterful conviction. 
The Pretender is a moving, clever, ultimately personal musical statement; as is expected of Jackson Browne, it is not only a fascinating work of art, but also a highly intelligent articulation of alienation and despair. 
Record courtesy of Mac's Record Rack 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
----~-------~~----------------------------­
10 the observer Wednesday, December 8, 1976 
-.--------­
Weather normalization could cause famine 
by James Spaulding Pacific News Service 

Despite this winter's record low temperatures and heavv snowfalls, climatologists are talking less about the coming of a new ice age and more about the fact that weather conditions are returning to normal. And that. they say. spells trouble. 
Normal weather. climatologists agree, means unseasonable cold spells. frequent droughts inter­spcr~ed with floods. hurricanes. tornados and erratic rainfall--condi­tions that threaten massive crop failures. famines and possibly was. 
For sen?ral vcars weather scicn· tists have been warning that the bounteous grain harvests of the 1960.,. which resltl'd from particu­larlv favorable weather in North An{crica. could not go on forever. Such consistently favorable condi­because the return to normalcy threatens mass hunger in the developed, grain producing na­tions. They worry more about the billions of people in the Third World who are unable to feed themselves or buy grain on the world market. 
tions, they said,  were  highly ab­ 
normal.  
Their  anxiety  does  not  arise  

The risk is acute, demographers say. because world food production capacity has already been strained by the doubling of the earth·s population to four billion in the last 30 years. 
Stephen H. Schneider, deputy director of the Climate Project at the National Center for Atmos­pheric Research (NCAR) in Boulder, Colo., says that a reduc­tion of just one ·percent in the earth·s present food production capacity coul mean death by starva­tion for 40 million people. 
-


We know walking across the quad on the grass is illegal. What about walking on the snow? [Photo by joseph burns] 
Options open for students 
by Mike Humpal Staff Reporter 

NO 
SMC 
THEATRE 

Reid Bryson, a University of 
Wisconsin meteorologist. is among 
the leading proponents of the 
theory that the Northern Hemis­
phere has netered a cooling period, 
bringing more variable weather. 
He contends that since the 
average temperatures began des­
cending in the 1940s, the growing 
season in England has shrunk by 
two weeks. droughts have begun to 
increase in northwestern India, 
African and Japanese monsoon 
rains have retreated toward the 
Equator and midsummer 
have returned to the midwestern 
U. 
s. 
Bryson says his studies that the rise and fall of civilizations 
as far back as 1900 B.C. correspond with the advance and retreat 
monsoon rains in regions 
rainfall is v~tal for growing rice. He says that a similar 
period some time around 1200 A. 
D. brought_ a 200-ycar drought what is now the grain belt of the Midwest. It drastically altered the culture of the indiget~ous Indians who lived there, according to archeological evidence. "So clearly," savs Bryson. "200 years of dr~ught ·in the 'Bread­basked' of North America is poss­ible." 
Even those who disagree with Br:vson admit that climate poses an acute threat to the world's precar­ious food balance. and that the favorable weather of the past 20 years is unlikely to continue. 
Despite the consessus among climatologists, the U. S. Depart­ment of Agreculture (USDA) con­tends that agricultural technology and the so-called Green Revolution (more productive hybrid grains) will keep food production apace with world population growth for at least 25 years. 
Consequently, the U. S govern­ment has allowed the virtual dis­appearance in the last decade of worldwide grain reserves. Lester Brown, president of the World­watch Institute, contends that worldwide food supply at any iven time is now down to just 30 days. 
"Where Pizzo is Always in Good Toste!'' 
Delicious Pizza Draft Beer (5) Kinds 
EVERY WED. * *·COLLEGE NIGH 
Show college I. D. We'll give you $1.00 off regular price of our 16" Family Size Pizza 
live entertainment weekends (Hickory Rd.) 
New game room soon to be opened (Hickory Rd.)
"BUCKET BRIGADE" Watch for details! 401 N. Hickory Rd T&C 31 N. at Darden Road 
... . .,.. ... ...... \. ... ... . .. ~ ... ' .. 
Schientists such as Louis M. Thompson, dean of agriculture at Iowa State University at Ames, believe the USDA's reliance on technology is a dangerous fallacy. Thompson's longterm studies show that since the 1950s, increased crop production in the corn belt was more the result of favorable wea­ther than of better technology. 
A recent report by the U. S. Office of Technological Assessment took thc1JSDA to task for failing to 
take climate varia into account 


PRE -CHRISTMAS REPORTERS MEETING!! 7pm tonight in the theatre, first floor , LaFortune. 
ALL REPORTERS AND 
SPECIAL HOLIDAY RATES FOR ND, SMC STUDENTS AND FACULTY!! 
Rent a car for round-trip from South Bend 
' 

and return for less than half-price! $50 per week, $.16 per mile (you pay for gas). Round up your friends to make a full car and end enjoy the holidays at low cost! 
Call or stop by to get full details and reserve your late-model Hertz car. 


,. 

Tom McMahon 

General Aqenl 

John Wahman 
Agent 


Karen Wentland 
Agent 


in forecasting food production. It said that with world food supplies dangerously low. the government lacks an intelligence system cap­
able of predicting the consequen­ces of unexpected droughts, floods, or other adverse conditions. 
The report noted that despite the best computer technology and access to weather satellites. the U. 
S. failed to learn of the Soviet wheat crop failure in 1972 when it sold wheat to the Russians at 
710 N. Niles Ave. South Bend 
'Tt·araht-r \Car.
I loil'l11l'l-ifcr'afh.·r 
'l'llll'loift•r. tlw 
( 'ollq,!l' \ J"''er 
frc,m Fidl'lit\ 
t ·nionl .itt.· ha' 
ht'l'll the 1111 ,,, an.·t•pft'<l. mo't popular plan on ctmpu't'' all c n t•r ..\nwrica. 
Find out \\In. 
(·all tlw Fiddif\ t ·nion {'ollt•gt•\ ht~-ift•r Fil'ld .-\l.i~-iodatt• m 'our art·a: 
'J1.5 E. Cedar 
South Bend, Ind. 
Phone 287-2327 
~~~ 
~
.. 
( t )lk·~0\ b'ltl'l' 
·'·' 






Action 
Express 

ACTION EXPRESS 
sponsored by the OMBUDSMAN 
open Mon. -Fri. 9:30-5:00 
Mon.-Thurs. 9:00-Midnight 
Sun. 1:00-5:00, 8:00-Midnight 

283-7638 
Q. Where do I call to make reservations for a raquetball court? 
-\. You can call the issue room at the ACC 8975 for reservations. 
You can't make reservations at the Rock. 
Q. When is the last day for Wednesday night fasts? 
-\ You still have to fast on Dec. 8 but you may eat the followin 
Wednesdav, Dec. 15. 
Q. What is the number for the ND-SMC Hotline? 
\. The phone is 4-4311 and you can call Sun -Thurs. 8-12 p.m. and . t n. and Sat. 8 p.m.-2 a.m 
Q. Is there any place on campus where I can get my stereo fixed? 
A No, but there are some places in town such as Pine Radio and Stereo Service Shop 534 N. Mich. 234-4236 and RCA Stereophonic Hi Fidelity Equip. at 1518 Mishawaka Ave. 287-5501 are just a couple. We suggest that you call before taking your stereo as some places only service those stereos that they have sold. 
Q. When do we have to register for second semester after the Christmas break? 
A We must be back to register on Tuesday, January 18. 
Q. Can you give me the number for the student representative for the Big Brother/Big Sister Program? 
A. You can call Diane Kuknyo at 283-1264 or Marty White at 283-8388 and they can give you any information that you need. 
Any Questions? Drop them off at the Ombudsman Office located on the second floor of the LaFortune Student Center of call us at 
283-7638. 
Wednesday, December 8, 1976. the observer 
----~~-~~~~~--~~ 

Nimoy entertains crowd 
(Continued from page 1] "I am grateful to be connected· with a show like Star Trek," Nimoy revealed. "It has expanded my life. I am a curious person by nature --and being connected to the show has helped my curiosity." "I'm the narrator now for a TV show, "In Search Of," and people are always coming up to me with material for it.'' Besides Star Trek and In Search Of, Nimoy also appeared on Mis­sion Impossible for two years. "People really treated me well there," Nimoy said. "I was playing all these roles where I dressed up as old men, young men and everybody else. It was an actors dream to play those roles. But after two years, I got tired of it and quit." Nimoy also talked about his favorite Star Trek episodes. "I though that "The City on the Edge of Forever" is a great science-fic­tion tale! I also liked the "Devil in the Dark,'' because it had me preform the Vulcan mind grip on a rock, and that's pretty hard to do." He also cited "Amuck Time" as a favorite. "That's the show where Spock was in heat,'' Nimoy added. Although Nimoy had many roles beside Spock, he is still best known as "Mr. Spock" to his fans. One such fan, Sr. Francesca from St. Mary's Convent admitted to being a die-hard fan. "I love Spock," she said. Colleen McCarthy, another fan, came to see what Nimoy was really 
like. "I always watched the show in high school and I'm pretty excited, she said. "I hope that he is wearing his ears." 
"He's a good actor. Its great to see a famous person for only SO cents," said Cher Peterson. 
The Nimoy appearance was sponsored by the academic council and the office of special events. "We don't expect to break even," said Director of Special Events, Charlie Moran. He refused to say what the appearance by Nimoy cost, but did say it was "in excess of $2000." 
After the standing ovation which ended the talk, Nimoy threaded his way past the autograph hunters and ducked back stage to answer questions for reporters. 
Nimoy disclosed that he has a lawsuit against Paramount Pictures because of the merchandise rights to Mr. Spock. "They make a lot of money from this, and some of the merchandise is really crap" said Nimoy. 
''Although he has filed suit against the studio, it deals only past of Star Trek, not the future," he continued. "Paramount has already hired a producer and director to make a Star Trek movie, and two screen-writers are cur­rently writing the script.'' Nimoy felt that people were blaming him for delaying the movie, because of his legal suit. "Those accusations 
are totally wrong," he said. "I 
wctta~aluddill 
129 north michigan 234-1431 downtown south bend. across from the big hole 
thursday, dec. 9 
tonight! SOUTH SHORE wednesday is ladies night­all ladies' drinks half-rice! 
CAMPUS WEST == 
MINISTRY offices ground floor of Badin now student operated from 8 p.m to midnight ·Sunda throu h Thursda 
want the movie to be made. If the script gets finished soon, it is possible that it could be shot next summer," Nimoy added. 
A reporter asked him what he though of the Spock role when it was originally offered to him. 
"I was a little concerned about it." he answered. "After all, I was considered a serious actor and here come these guys wanting to put on these pointed ears like Mickey Mouse." 
Nimoy added that the only souvenirs he has from the Star Trek series is one pair of those poi11ted ears.
........:._~ 
Remember the 


NOTICES 

Grad students, profs. have room, need extra cash. House Senior next semester. 284-4259 
"MEDICAL SCHOOL in Mexico acceptin(l American students. Prac­tice in the US, WHO listed, HEW approved, 4 year course, loans available, for December appoint­ment in your area, call 219-867-4331 
The Last Buses of the Semester to Chica(lo Will Be Runnin(l Friday, Dec. 10 and Friday, Dec. 17 at 5:45 from the Main Circle. Have a HaPPY Holiday. Tomm 8338 
LOGAN CENTER COUNCIL FOR THE RETARDED CHRISTMAS DANCE. WED. 7:30 · 10:00 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20 -$1SO. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune basement M. F. 11:15. 12:15 
Need typin(l? Professiona Typin(l Service . Top Quality · Convenient Location 232-0898 
Accurate, Fast Typin(l. Mrs. Dono. hue, 232-0746. Hours 8 AM · 8 PM 
ANYONE FROM N.Y., N.J. CONN OR MASS INTERESTED IN TAK­ING AMTRAK FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK PICK UP forms in student 
FORMS IN STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE LAFORTUNE BLDG. IMMEDIATELY. REDUCE GROUP RATES AVAILABLE GROUP RATES AVAILABLE 
Typing, Call Carolyn 232-9061 
RIDES AVAILABLE!! Cars goin(l to many destinations. Gas is the only expense. Call Bruce 8906 
FOR SALE 

Fischer skis, 160 em, marker bind­in(ls, poles, ladies boots six-and-a-­half excellent condition. Call Carla 4-4258 
'73 Ve(la GT Hatchback, new engine new tires, new exhaust system, A-C, Best offer, call 287-5655 
Book Shop. Used Books. Students Paradise. Open Wed., Sat., Sun., 9-7 Ralph .Casperson Books, 1301 Buchannan Road. Niles Mich. 683.. 
288~ 
Skis, Hart Freestyle, 195 em., excellent condition, casII 277-3762 niles till midni(lht 
For Sale: 1 GA Gator Bowl ticket at price. Call 8125 
Fur Coats for sale: Mouton Lamb, Muskrat, Sheered Beaver and Mink. Call after 6: 291-2258 
AUDIO OUTLET top name stereo equipment wholesale Call 283-1181 

Lan(le Competition Ski Boots. Size 10 $75 8760 
FOR RENT 

For Rent: Niles, 3 Bdrm, Duplex. $180 plus utilities 684-6986 
Roommates wanted for NO apt. startin(l Jan. 1 Call 288-4113 
4-bedroom house for rent · close to campus. Very reasonable. Well insulated and partially furnished. Call 277-3604 evenin(ls 
LOST AND FOUND 

Set of Chrysler car keys in frong of LaFortune. Call Chuck 8540 or come to 315 Sorin 
Found: Red-black striped scarf at campus View, Fri. Dec. 3 Call 1558 
Found on senior trip in Hotel: Man's watch. Call 8068 
Jumper cables at St. Joe Airport Monday mornin(l;<:all 287-5655 
Found: 1 B-Ball ticket at the Library Sat ni(lht. Call 8953 
Lost Fri Dec. 3 in the Eng. Auditorium: a black osmiroid 65 pen with a left hand fine intalics tip. Neat, huh? Sentimental value. Please call Mark 8540. Thanks 
Lost '78 NO Class Ring. Initials FLB Call Frank 1579 
WANTED 

• • I ~. 't • o 


Classified Ads 
SMC Senior needs off campus hous­in(l next semester 284-4529 
Wanted: Girl part-time for Tony's Shoe Shop M-F. Hours 2-4 
Need ride to Ballo.. D. C. for break . can leave Sun. Dec. 19 or later. Call Mary Ellen 8121 
Need ride to St. Louis area for Christmas. Can leave anytime after 
4:00 on the 20th. Call Pe(l(lY 4-4381 
Need Ride · Stamford Conn. area. Leave Sat. Call Kevin 8906 
Wanted to buy: 1 Good 35mm SLR camera. Call Mark 259-3446 
Missed plane for senior trip. Need ride to San Die(lo on about 20th. Call Tim at 1715 ni(lhts 
Riders needed to Ft. Lauderdale . Miami for Christmas break. Must leave Friday, Dec. 17 Call Bob 1419 
Need 2 Indiana B-Ball tickets Call Jimat8610 
PERSONALS 

ATTENTION OBSERVER STAFF 
THE CHRISTMAS PARTY IS SCH­EDULED FOR THIS SATURDAY, DEC. 11, 1976. FOOD, MUSIC, REFESHMENTS AND A SPECIAL GUEST. CAMPUS VIEW COM· MUNITY CENTER 9 PM -2 AM 
Tis the season to be baggy!! Bag your friends!! Bag your family! Bag your girl! (No stupid, not in the way you're thinking) Bag them all with an inexpensive Bag Brothers T-shirt (You idiots, and you are idiots, ordered them and now we're stuck 
with thm!l Anyone interested call Big D-bag 3662 and found out how easy it is to bag someone and make them jolly!! 
ALOHA Killer, George, Ringo and all the other Zombies. We miss you. We need you. Come back to the 
Seven  Seas,  so  we  can  shake  it  
again.  
ALOHA  

Pupule, Kapuna and Oma 
ANY OBSERVITE WHO NEEDS A RIDE TO THE PARTY PLEASE NOTE: The van will leave Notre Dame from the Library Circle at 8:30, 9:30 p.m. From SMC at Holy Cross Hall at 9:00p.m. 
Are your weekends cold, lonely, and slow to sta(lnant? Call Judy 6729 fo a hot time. I'll toast your marshmal­lows 
Siva, The kin(l is dead. I am a Freeman. The K in(l's Fool 
TO ALL OBSERVER STAFFERS AND SPECIAL FRIENDS. 
RESERVE YOUR SATURDAY NIGHT, DEC. 11, FOR THE CHRISTMAS PARTY AT CAMPUS VIEW COMMUNITY CENTER THE FUN STARTS AT 9 PM 
Captain I missed you! Love Your Bear 
A triscit, a triscit A (lreen and yellow biscuit I wrote a personel to my love And by God she didn't miss it. 
-Caves 
Attention Rugby Players -team picture taken Thurs., 4:00 at Cor­by's 
OBSERVER STAFF DON'T FORGET THE PARTY SAT. NIGHT AT CAMPUS VIEW 9PM-2PM 
Dear Marsa, . You should know by now that the best-laid plans don't work when I'm involved! Thank you, Thank you and Boy, was I ever surprised!!?! 
Do you want to be a Catholic? . Please call 283-6536 or 283-3820 for information about the Notre Dame Catechumenate Program 
Campus Ministry West offices ground floor of Badin . now student operated from 8 pm to midnight, Sunday through Thursday. 
' I $. •
... , . ... " • J , • 
Six yr olds are old, Maidens ever youn(l You're twenty-one Before you've be(lun 
Leslie, Happy Birthday to the champa(lne drinkin(l champ of 318. Have fun "jeffitatin(l" this weekend. 1-4-3 Bobbsey Twins 
J. Malcolm (429 Stanford), Be darin(l: grow up! 
Sincerely, Fourth Floor 
Anyone who would like to help decorate for the Observer party, drive the van, or prepare the food please contact Martha at the office or leave a note in my box 
Con(lratulations Kathy and Bob -With lvoe from some people on 3rd floor of Breen-Phillips 
Free to a (lood home. Grey kitten . approx 6 months old. Litter-trained. Makes a (lreat Christmas present. Contact Lisa 6746 
410 ANDREWS· Happy hibernation ((lotta love those A's) No one knows, but my waders have overflowed more than their share. But, what can I say; I'm in lvoe! -mickey mouse may soon become mi(lhty mouse. 
the 18th approacheth 
To Michelle w. Merry Christmas! Love Jeff, Dave, Tony, Bill& K.K. 
Mo Reynolds We sure wish you'd grace 227 Farley with your sweet, smiling contenance. Love, two thirds of the Tremendous Triple plus one third 
J.P. D. Thanks for the inspiration last 
Saturday ni(lhl. The Good Ship 
P.J.+ Three years, many memories, and a diamond promising our future.... who said you can't live happily ever after? lly, MAMK 
TO OBSERVERITES . IN CASE YOU DON'T KNOW IT 
THE STAFF PARTY IS THIS 
WEEKEND, ON SAT DEC. 11, AT 
CAM PUS VIEW. FUN, FOOD, 
REFRESHMENTS, MUSIC, GOOD 
TIMES, AND FANTASTIC COM+ 
•PANY FROM 9 AM-2 PM· I 
4 • ------;----;-~;~-----I J 

12 the observer Wednesday, December 8, 1976 
Irish cagers trounce Northwestern 
... 
%Observer 
Sports 
Pacers nip Braves 107-103 
HUFF ALO AP-The Indiana Pacers Hillman was fouled intentionally defeated the Buffalo Braves 107-with 19 seconds to go. He made 103 Tuesday night despite a 42-the first shot and missed the point, 29 rebound performance by second. But Rovisch came up with the losers' Bob McAdoo, who the offensive rebound and hit four might have been playing his last free throws in the last 13 seconds, National Basketball Association sandwiched around a basket by game with the Braves. McAdoo. 
Dave Robisch got the clutch Steve Green led the Pacers with points for the Pacers. He scored on 24 points. Robisch had 20. a rebound with 1:02 to play that put McAdoo's 29 rebounds broke the the Pacers on top to stay at team record he previously set. 102-101. With 24 seconds to play, The Braves lost rookie star McAdoo missed two free throws Adrian Dantley when the game was and the Pacers got the rebound. only 3 I /2 minutes old due to a 
_ Indiana held the ball and Darnell ! pulled hamstring. 


Final Stats 

Notre Dame 105 FG Ff TP 
Batton 2 2-4 6 Paterno 6 7-8 19 Flowers 7 1-2 15 Williams 8 2-4 18 Martin 3 3-4 9 Knight 4 0-0 8 Branning 4 5-5 13 Hanzlik 1 1-3 3 Kuzmicz 3 0-2 6 Carpenter Haefner 2 0-0 4 Sahm 0 0-1 0 Fabian 0 4-5 4 Healy 0 0-0 0 Total 40 25-38 105 
Northwestern 78 FG Ff TP 
Boesen 6 2-3 14 Svete 0 0-0 0 Klaas 0 1-3 1 Hildebrand 1 4-4 6 McKinney 12 1-3 25 Marifke 4 2-2 10 Allen 1 0-0 2 Cambell 0 2-2 2 Carroll 2 0-0 4 Cartwright 3 1-1 7 Gibson I 2-2 4
Bill Paterno, in addition to leading the Irish in scoring with 19 
Wall I 1-2 3

points, played well defensively to guide the Notre Dame to their 
Total 31 16-22 78
fourth win of the season [Photo by Dom Yocius] 
again with 2:12 left in the final team kept pace with the Wildcats, period, the crowd-pleasers per-with both teams trading four The Irish took yet another step formed before the 10,980 fans. points. toward the NCAA playoffs in 
One humorous aspect of the The game was not expected to be March, as they await their clash game was the Wildcats four corner of Notre Dame-UCLA caliber, but with the Bruins on Saturday. "This offense. With only a couple the Irish easily handled a team that is another game for our goal of an minutes left in the game, North-gave DePaul a tremendous strug­NCAA bid," remarked Phelps. western went into a stall with the gle. The Wildcat's record now falls "We've now got to get ready for Irish enjoying a 101-74 lead. to 2-3 as they prepare to travel to UCLA out there, and Indiana next During that time, the S.W.A.T. Arizona this Friday. week." 
Outlook is bright for ND fencers 
sed DeCicco. Two captains are feated performance of last year," 
returning and the Irish have a pair commented DeCicco. "We face 
of outstanding assistant coaches the top teams in the country year in 
111t: ouuook is bright for this with strong fencing credentials. and year out. The eastern swing year's edition of the Notre Dame Risto Hurme and Ed DiVivo, which we are making will be fencing team. Mike DeCicco's co-captains together at NYU, are especially difficult." ranks boast the return of eleven now both assistant coaches of the "If we get by the eastern trip, letter winners, seven starters, and Irish fencing team. Hurme, a three which is the toughest part of our three former All-Americans. The time NCAA fencing champion, has schedule," noted epee captain Irish will be set to defend a Great also participated in the 1972 and. Glass, "we will have a good chance Lakes Championship and to keep a 1976 Olympic Games winning a to go undefeated. But there are a 44 meet win streak intact. After a bronze medal in the former. lot of natural rivals later in the year third place finish in last year's DiVivo, who assisted last year, was such as the Big Ten schools. They NCAA tourney, Notre Dame is an outstanding fencer at NYU, a always get emotionally motivated determined to claim their first perrenial NCAA power. for Notre Dame." national championship in fencing. The Irish will face an eastern With the coaching leadership of 
"Foil' is our strong suit," ans­swing in January where they will DeCicco and strong performances wered Head Coach DeCicco when face traditional rivals Army, NYU, from returning veterans, this asked about the upcoming season. Baruch College, Rutgers, and year's Irish can bring another One can understand DeCicco's Penn. "It will be a much more national championship to the an­reasoning. The foil returns all difficult task to duplicate our unde-nals of Notre Dame athletics. three starters who all have exten­sive winning experience. Terry McConville, Mike McCahey, and Pat Gerard have a combined career 
Irish rise to seventh in AP 
record of 269 wins and 62 losses. Bill Kica and Steve Salimond will Indiana, the big winner in col­and Cincinnati, each unbeaten, contribute the needed reserve lege basketball last season, was the received one first-place vote strength in this weapon. big loser in this week's Associated apiece. UCLA was in third place, 
The epee also returns its first Press rankings. Last year's nation­Kentucky in fourth, San Francisco three men. All-Americans Tim al championc lost 59-57 to Toledo in sixth and Cincinnati in eighth. Glass and Ed Fellows along with last week, and voters across the On Monday night, San Francisco two-time letterman John Strauss country refused to forgive the defeated Houston 100-85 to stretch will contribute to another winning HIJosiers for their sin. its record to 5-0. Irish season. DeCicco has great The nationwide panel of sports Nevada-Las Vegas was No. 5, expectations from Joe Turgeon, writers and broadcasters dropped after beating Oregon, 78-67, and who is pushing to be a starter. Indiana to 13th place from fourth Iowa State, 115-80, last week. The 
Traditionally, the weakest wea­on the basis of games through other Top Ten teams are No. 7 pon has been the sabre. This will Sunday. Since then, the Hoosiers, Notre Dame. No.9 Arizona and No. again hold true this season, but it who had lost just once in the past 10 Alabama. does not imply that the Irish will three regular seasons, lost again, Wake Forest, unranked in pre­not be competitive in this weapon. falling victim to Kentucky, 66-51. season balloting, continued its Mike Sullivan is the only returning Monday night. . advance in the Top 20. The starter. The stellar sophomore is the Meanwhile, the other basketball Deacons moved from 14th in last top sabre performer in the history powerhouse from the Big Ten, week's poll to No. 11. one spot of Notre Dame fencing and is a Michigan, kept rolling along with a ahead of Atlantic Coast Cqnference returning All-American. Filling victory over Fordham last week. rival North Carolina, which im­the remaining spots will be Captain The No. 1 Wolverines, who im­proved its record to 3-1 Monday Tim Mulligan and junior Tom proved their record to 3-0 with a night by beating Michigan State, Edwards. Senior Rick Valdiserri 97-76 romp over Vanderbilt Mon­81-58. will also add additional support. day night, received 40 of 49 Louisville, which fell from sev­
An outstanding recruiting year first-place votes and a total of 933 enth to 14th place after losing at will greatly aid the Irish in their bid points. home to Syracuse, rebounded to for a national championship. Andy Another big team from the trounce Virginia Commonwealth Bonk, last year's Illinois State foil midwest, Marquette, picked up 89-60 Monday night. champion, and Tom Cullom, an five first-place votes and 813 Rounding out the second ten wer excellent epee performer, are the points. The Warriors won their e Tennessee, No. 15; Clemson, No. current "blue-chippers." opening game last week, crushing 16; Maryland, No. 17; Southern 
"One of the things we are St. Leo 80-39, and were impressive Jllinois. which edged Northeast blessed with this year, that we Monday night, rolling over West­Oklahoma 63-61 Monday night, No. were not blessed with other years is ern Michigan, 78-53. 18; Depaul, No. 19, and Syracuse, outstanding leadership,'' confes-UCLA, Kentucky, San Francisco No. 20. 
by Paul Stevenson Sports Writer 
Notre Dame chalked up their 

fourth win of the season. as the 
Irish ripped Northwestern 105-78. 
Northwestern's Billy McKinney, 
the leading scorer in the game, was 
not enough to overcome the balan­
ced Irish attack. 
The Irish, pressing from the 

outset, gave the Wildcats as much 
trouble on defense as they did on 
offense. The harrassed Northwest­
ern players were able to make just 
nine of 27 field goal attempts, or 33 
percent. in the first half when the 
outcome was decided. 
The rebounding for the contest 

was leaning just as heavily toward 
Notre Dame, as the Irish domina­
ted the boards by a 52-30 advan­
tage. 
The Irish acknowledged their 

fourth leading scorer of the season 
in as many games. Bill Paterno 
fired deadly jump shots over North­
wt:stern· s zone defense to lead the 
Notre Dame with 19 point.s 
"Billy (Paterno) played one of 

his better games." remarked Irish 
Coach Digger Phelps. "Every 
night we have a different scoring 
leader." 
Paterno played an excellent game, hitting 60 percent of this field goals and striking seven of eight from the gift line. He was second in rebounding, pulling eight caroms. 
Don "Duck" Williams followed 

right behind Paterno with 18 points 
in the contest. The duo of Williams 
and Paterno forced the Wildcats to 
switch from a zone to a man to man 
defense just past the halfway point 
in the first period. 
The Irish hit 21 of 32 floor attempts in the first half to race to a 50-26 halftime advantage. For the night, Notre Dame's sharpshooters hit 40 of 64 for 63 percent. 

"Notre Dame did not surprise us at all," commented Wildcat mentor Tex Winter. "We couldn't react to Notre Dame's aggressiveness or their intimidation." 
Northwestern couldn't assemble any threat the entire game. Notre Dame pulled ahead in the early going and never bothered to look back. 
McKinney was the only bright spot in the Northwestern attack. The six foot senior guard hit on 12 of 20 field goals to lead the total scoring with 25 points. Pete Roesen followed with 14 points and was the leading rebounder for the Wildcats with four caroms. 
Once again. the Irish had four players in double figures in the battle. Bruce Flowers followed Paterno and Williams with fifteen points and was third in rebounding with seven. Freshman Rich Bran­ning played another tremendous game, finishing the tilt with 13 points. 
Toby Knight turned in another superb performance. The "super­sub" lead the Irish with 10 re­bounds and added eight points in the Irish conquest. 
Northwestern gave the Irish a fight in the second period as they were out-scored by Notre Dame by only three points. Their shooting percentage increased from 33 per­cent in the first period to 51 percent in the second half to keep the final score respectable. 
For the third game in a row, the 
S.W.A.T. squad made their ap­pearance on the hardcourt. With 
1:13 remainingin the first half and 







