

-------~--------~ --------------------------------~----------­
Advocates socialism 
Carmichael attacks system 
by Maureen Flynn the workers," is "profit by any dents at Notre Dame are here so Campus Editor means necessary," Carmichael they can make more money,'' said. Carmichael claimed. "But if there Black militant Stokely Carmic­Black people all over the world is a transformation of goals, there heal called Friday for the destruc­are victims not only of economic would be no more .cheating. If you tion of .an oppresive and exploita­exploitation, but of "vicious, brutal cheat now, you get an A· more tive capitalistic system and its racial exploitation,'' he added. It is status, more money. Under a replacement by a socialist system the responsibility of blacks "to do . socialist system, you would come dedicated to "the benefit of hu­everything to aid in the destruction here to acquire knowledge for manity.'' of the capitalist system." humanity. to be real studentl>." 
The former member of the Black Capitalism "can't win," Car­he said. Panthers and the Student Nonvio­michael said. "No one can stop the Every system involves some lent Coordinating Committee ad­course of history as people move basic conception of the nature of dressed a group of approximately forward to gain their liberation. No man, Carmichael said. and l·apita· 125 in the Library Auditorium. one," he emphasized, "not Kis­!ism says "man is basicalh· C\ i' 
Carmichael also condemned U.S. singer, not Ford, not Nixon, not the it's a dog-eat-dog world." Man i~ "Imperialist" intervention in An­American Army. not NATO." composed of all thing~. po~itive gola and South Africa, and U.S. Carmichael said that the strug­and negative force!>, Carmic·hael aid to Israel, "which is really gles of blacks ae:ainst the oppres­stated, and capitalism encourages Palestine.'' sion of capitalism is worldwide. the competitive spirit. 
The goal of capitalism, "a sys­''All are connected. The rebellions "If children were taught cooper­tem in which the means of produc­in Newark and Detroit are nothing a'tion in grade school." he said. tion are owned by a few who exploit but the rebellions in Soweto and "they would bdieve in cooperation 
Johannesburg. It's the same when they greW''older and the spirit thing.'' he stated. · of man would be cooperative." The changeover from capitalism 
The opportunity for change todayto socialism is more than an is better, stronger. more positiveeconomic issue, Carmichael said. 
than in the 1960's, Carmichael "It is a struggle for the transfor­said. "Imperialism is weaker and mation of man himself, a transfor­the capitalist system is in crisis." 
mation to a system where the Carmichael noted that there arepeople own and control the means more strikes in the U.S. now than 
of production and where the goal is "ever before." The U.S .. he said. 
not profit, but the benefit of is in a "capitalist crisis and it musthumanity.'' 
wage war to get out of it. But there 'Change man's nature' is no place to wage war," he 
"Ninety-five percent of the stu-(Contlnued.on page 6) 
Prof organization to vote on bargaining proposal 
by Ginger McGowan better educational situations. Staff Reporter Based on the spring poll. issues which the faculty consider Y.·ould be 
The Notre Dame Chapter of the more effectively reconciled by col­American Association of University lective bargaining include: faculty Professors will vote on a proposal voice in decision-making bodies; to initiate collective bargaining on grievance procedures; salary scales 
October 14. N.D. Chapter Presi­and increments; and fringe bene­WASHINGTON -AP -Two polls lead in I0 states with 84 electoral neither candidate can claim an dent Professor James Robinson fits. show Jimmv Carter even with votes and a shaky lead in 16 states edge, the Times reported. announced Friday. The A.A.U.P. is currently the 
President Ford or his edge nar­with 210 electoral votes. Bv Time magazine said its Septem­A poll of the faculty taken in largest national association of col­
rowed as the fall campaign enters carrying all of those he would hav~ ber poll by Yankelovich, Skelly & spring of 1976 showed that 42%of lege and university professors, month. shows faculty totalling 77,000 members.
its last A third 294 votes. 24 more than needed to White showed Ford and Carter in a the favors collective bar­Robin­Carter eight points ahead. but it Win. dead heat among 1,308 registered gatmng and 53% want the son analogized the A.A.U.P. as may be revised on the basis of It said Ford leads comfortably in voters sampled. 43 percent for each A.A.U.P. to allow the faculty the being the A.M.A. of the education­additional results. eight states with 46 electoral votes candidate and 14 percent un­option of choosing or rejecting al field. The Notre Dame chapter has 130 members.
The Newhouse News Service and is narrowlv ahead in six others decided. collective bargaining reported. meanwhile. its joint poll with 38. a total of 84 votes. Gallup. reporting on his organi­The use of collective bargaining Robinson stressed that the two with the Chicago Daily News has New York. Pennsylvania and zation's September poll, said the is "a very hew thing in higher most important features of mem­
are

found that Carter has "fallen Ohio. with 93 electonil votes. are 50-42 pro-Carter finding. with eight education''Robinson explained. bership in the A.A.U.P. aca­
drastically" in his electoral vote among key states where Carter's "We have not decided to deplic freedom and faculty partici­
percent undecided was correct but initiate edge over Ford as several kev edge has eroded, while California. n1a~· change when fuller returns procedures, but we will decide on pation in policy-making. states shifted from the Carter's Illinois and Texas are so close that from the poll are available. October 14," he said. "It allows teachers to maintain column to the "uncertain" cate­According to Robinson, the col­their freedom in the face of gory in the last two weeks. lective bargaining structure, if all sorts of pressures, including 
The Newhouse survey found adopted, could apply to several institutional pressure." he com­

St. Mary's student escapes
Carter now leading in 21 states and issues within the administration. mented. The administration has the District of Columbia. with a regarding the economy and gover­not applied any pressure con­total of 224 electoral votes -46 nance of the university. Potentially cerning the upcoming collective

from attacker near Regina
fewer than the 270 needed for included would be the future size of bargaining question stated Robin­victory Nov. It said Ford held the faculty in various departments son. 
by Mlchelle l.eahy "Our prime concern is the safety of
steady with 84 electoral votes in such as the Business College. He continued, "The main values 
Staff Reporter the students," Kovatch said.
14 states. "We have not considered speci­of the A.A.U.P. to a facultv 
Security measures taken at St.
Pollster George Gallup. Jr. said fic issues," acknowledged Robin­member is that it encourages and during the weekend two earlier Mary's consist of two cars moving son. The Notre Dame chapter is formulates faculty participation in A St. Mary's student escaped continuously throughout the camp­
polls by his organization under­currently compiling information on faculty organization."
injury from a would-be attacker last us, foot patrol and escort service. The core of the chapter's work is
stated Carter's strength. and with how collective bargaining has wor­
Monday, Sept. 27, behind Regina The doors of all the buildings are
the election drawing closer, it will ked in other universities to promote (Contlnued on page 3)
South on the bank of the St. Joseph locked at 6 p.m. each night and theswitch to a larger sample. 
River. back gate closed at
The latest Gallup poll. released The student said she was is the same 
grabbed from behind by a white time.
Friday, gave Carter a SO to 42 edge. 
male, but struggled to free herself "We see every car that comeswith 8 percent favoring other and ran for safety. into the campus after 6 p.m., andcandidates or having no opinion. 
Although the student reported wer're concerned mostly with out­But Gallup said late revisicms the incident to St. Mary's security, siders from the South Bend, Nileswhich he expects to be made would Anthony Kovatch, head security and Elkhart areas,'' Kovatch said.
alter the outcome perhaps a point director, refused to acknowledge Kovatch also commented thator two one way or the other. 
the incident saying ''There have "the lighting here is quite ad­Both the New York Times and been no reports of girls being equate. Presently we've got a lot ofTime magazine said the latest approached on the SMC campus." foliage on the trees, but when thefindings in their polls indicate the However, this incident has pro­leaves fall and the snow is on theNov. 2 election will be close. 
mpted the hall directors to post ground. the campus will be wellThe Times said the survey it precautionary signs on the bulletin lit."
conducts jointly with CBS showed boards of the various halls. "These According to Kovatch, the SMCCarter'holding an advantage. in signs were recently discussed at a campus has just recently improved enough states to win a majority of hall directors meeting and are their lighting with enlarged lampselectoral votes, but his edge is meant to be a sort of preventive along the paths most frequentlynarrow in most of those states and medicine," explained Leslie Wil­used.
is dwindling in some of the most son, assistant hall director of St. Mary's students seem to beimportant ones. 
Regina. more security-conscious than in theIt said II states appear even, and The signs warn students not to past, Kovatch noted. "They'llin none of the important states does walk alone especially at night and respond immediately if they seeCarter's lead exceed five or six to remain in lighted areas when anything that should be called to percentage points. By gaining a possible. "There are a lot of places our attention." He added that if afew points nationwide in popular that incidents could occur on the girl needs assistance, security will · support, the Times said, Ford SMC campus," Wilson added. pick her up. "however, the girlsconceivably could tip the election in According to Kovatch, the river, must not abuse this service," hehis own favor. 
Joy Beach and the nature trails are said. ''Remember there is safety in The Times said Carter has a solid areas to be avoided when alone. numbers." 

.---------------------~--------------------~~------~ 
Monday, October 4, 1976
2 
the observer 

~--News Briefs--....... 
t==========lntemational Socialists win 
BONN, West Germany -Social Democratic Chancellor Helmut Schmidt claimed victory in West Germany's parliamentary election yesterday despite sizeable losses to c~nser_vatives le~ by challe!l~er Helmut Kohl. Projections of Sunday s votmg by nattonal television gave Schmidt's Socialist-Liberal coalition a narrow margin of strength to continue in power. 


t===============National 
Ford strikers 
DETROIT -Ne_!;otiators for the United Auto Workers and Ford Motor Co. gathered for more meetings ye§terday amid indications they were on the verge of settling the 19-day nationwide strike. Negotiators held an ali-day meeting Saturday that lasted into the cYcning. and some sources said they thought a tentative agreement could be in the offing. 

.,__On Campus Toda!J~ _ _. 
monday, october 4 
2:30p.m. meeting, college of science college council meeting, room 150, cce. 
3:25, 4:30 ascent of man film series, "the music of the spheres" & 5:45 p.m. sponsored by college of science, engineering aud. 
4:30p.m. colloquium, "a global approach to hilbert's fourth problem" by dr. john r. alexander, univ. of illinois, S!X)nsored by math dept., room 226, computing center. 
7 p.m. chess club meeting, room 326, computing & math center. 
7 p.m. mba might, information about mba program in u.s. and abroad, all students welcome, sponsored by college of business administration, room 122, hayes-healy center. 
7:30p.m. lecture, "issues of modern 1reland" by andreas o'ceallachain, an irish revolutionary sought by the british army, srx>nsored by nd celtic society, library aud. 
7:30p.m. american scene, "selected readings from the rx>et's work" by paul zimmer, rx>et, univ. of pittsburgh, carroll hall, st. mary's. 
7:30p.m. cycle touring club meeting, ratskeller 
10:30 p.m. mass and reception, a celebration of the feast of st. francis S!X)nsored by sr. vivian whitehead, sr. jean lenz and sr. kathleen rossman, breen-phillips chapel. 
tuesday, october 5 
12:15 p.m. women in science seminar for graduate, undergraduate and faculty in college of science, room 101, galvin life science center. 



SMC hosts administrator of Small Business agency 
Mitchelf P. Kobelinski, Admini­President Ford's Economic Policy strator of the Small Business Board, which oversees the formu­Administration, will speak on lation, coordination and implemen­
_"Small Business: Its Impact on tation of all of the Administration's 
Waitresses eliminated 


Nazz Deli opens this Friday 
by Marian mtcny Staff Reporter 

Service and menu changes will mark the opening of the Nazz Deli on Friday, Oct. 8, from 10 p.m. to 1 
a.m. 

Counter service in the Darby's 
Place snack bar will replace the former waitresses and table service according to Mr. Tom Grogan, 
Huddle manager. Menus will be provided on each table listing the w~7kend of~erings. . 
The basic staple Is the famous Nazzwich, still for sale by the inch at 20 cents an inch," stated 
Grog·an. Toasted bagels with cream 
cheese. another popular item, will
also be retained. Different kinds of deli-type sandwiches, such as pas­trami and chipped ham, will be 
offered. Thechoiceofcoldcutswill
change from week to week . 

A new menu addition will be a selection of ·various coffees and teas. The beverages and their prices per cup are as follo..,s: (coffees)anisette, au chocolate, cinnamon, de menthe, 35 cents; sanka, 20 cents; (teas) darjeeling, iasimine, oolong, 25 cents; orange pekoe, 20 cents. Hot apple cider and lemonade will also be served. 
"The idea is this food is com­pletely different from Huddle food," . Grogan said. Huddle employees will operate the deli, but the menus will not coincide. 
Grogan stressed that the deli set-up is still open to suggestions. He is presently considering the possibility of a cheese platter. "Our best gauge is our sales," Grogan stated. "We'll adjust the menu to the student reactions. The beverage selection was a sugges­tion of the students last year." 
The deli project is a joint effort with the Nazz coordinators. Ac­cording to Grogan. "We are work­ing together to get a more coordi­nated effort -to put food and entertainment together." 
Pat Fanning, Nazz coordinator, sees the changes from waitresses to counter service as an improve­ment, commenting. ".It won't be so noisy where the performers are 
Today's Economy", Monday, 
October 4 at St. Mary's College. 
His address, scheduled for 10:15 in 
Carroll Hall, Madeleva Memorial. 
will include an analysis of the role 
women in small business. 
Mr. Kobelinski. a native of 

Chicago, became the administrator 
of the Small Business Administra­
tion in February. 1976. The 
administration is charged with 
protecting, within the Federal 
government, the best interests of 
the nation· s 10 million small busi­
nesses. Formerly director of the 
Export-Import Bank of the United 
States. Mr. Kobelinski is also on 
(*The Observerl 
Night Editor: Robert Brink Asst. Night Editor: Joseph Bauer layout Staff: Paula Carroll Editorial layout: Patrick Han­ifin, Michael Richter Features layout: Tim O'Reil­ey-official Observer sexist Sports layout: Chip Spina Typists: Gwen Coleman, Karen Chiames, Mary Ann Keefe, Rusty Espinosa Night Controller: Martha Fanning Day Editor: Mary Patricia Tarpey 
l;f~Y Reader: Kathleen KeJ 
FOR APPT. CALL: 272-7222 

18381EDISON RD.ATSO.BENDAVE. 

playing." 
The entertainment will include theater as well as vocal and instrumental music, according to Fanning. A Neil Simon play was recently presented, and a "Jacques Brei" review is planned for the last 
weekend in October and the first in November. 
Fanning stated that the Nazz has more money to bring in outside performers this year. However, the major source of talent comes 
from student volunteers. Fanning noted that many campus perfor­mers have strong reputations and attract a regular following. 
There is no specific procedure to be followed in order to perform. "If anybody would like to perform, they contact me," stated Fanning. "I don't audition anyone. If they want to play, I trust that they're good enough and have enough songs." 
The style of music varies from folk singers and guitarists to the jazz combo. "We try to keep it pretty diversified,'' Fanning stressed. 

f~,_-""'_JIIIo_.Jij_~tllo"'-¥--"111-"'"''l"""'~~~'--"""--1r.....,"""fllt 
SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS & BILLY SPARKS PRESENT:



EARTH
-
WIND &· FIRE 

.. and Special 
guest THE EMOTIONS 
Friday Oct. 15 8:00 PM Notre Dame ACC Tickets $6.50 Main floor and all padded seats 
5.50 Bleachers 
On Sale now at: ACC Box office, Robertson's, St. Joseph Bank and Brances, First Bank (Main Branch only), The Elkhart Truth, Just For The Record (100 Center), Suspended Card (Elkhart), The Record Joint (Niles), Boogie Records (Mishawaka;. 
and Notre Dame Student Union 

f\ ·new profi e 

=,~~:,figure salons, 
U.S. 31 and Auten Rd., 
Hours 9-8 Monday-Friday, 
1 Stoplight North of 
9-2 Saturday
North Village Mall 


Concession locations listed 
by Joe LaCosta 
Staff Reporter 
Assistant Director of Student Activities John Reid announced the assignment of places for concession stands for the remaining home football games. 
Twelve positions are open each weekend for a total of thirty-six over the remaining three home football games. 
Reid stated that the policy of the Student Activities Office was to "service as many students as possible." In keeping with this policy, the Activities Office aw'!rds a stand to a single group if it is considered large enough. 
"If a group is exceptionally large. such as the freshman class, then two dates may be awarded. In some cases. "Reid said, "groups are doubled up at one stand if they 
Organization Oct. 16 
Alumni Hall 
B-P Hall 
Sorin Hall 
AIChE 
Keenan Hall 
Am. Chern. Soc. 
Class of 77 
Class of 78 
Holy Cross Hall 
Physics Club 
Class of 79 
Math Club 


Keenan, Stanford toss pillows 
b.Y Mar_y Ann Moorman Staff Reporter 
Tempers flared Thurday night as 

residents of Keenan and Stanford 
Halls engaged in a pillow fight on 
the North quad. The conflict 
occurred minutes after Stanford 
residents were informed of details 
of Dean Roemer's decision that 
Stanford must build its own food 
sales. 
Richard Hebert. Keenan Hall 

president, said that two residents 
went to the hospital with eye 
injuries. A Keenan freshman, who 
had his tooth chipped related, 
"The pillow was pretty packed; he 
had his fist behind it." Injuries 
were apparently not limited to 
Keenan Hall. Two Stanford stu­
dents were seen with bloody faces 
by a fellow Stanfordite. 
Keith Montgomery, Stanford 

Hall president, stated that the 
piilow fight was spontaneous. · 
However, signs announcing the 
event were evident in the hallway 
beforehand. 
Rector of Stanford, Brother Via­

tor Grzeskowiak claimed there was 
no connection between the pillow 
fight and the food sales controver­
sy. "The pill!>w fight was not 
spontaneous; it had been arranged 
by residents of both Keenan and 
Stanford. Last year's pillow fight 
occurred in mid-October before the 
interhall football game. The 
screams 'Za' this year, just gave 
ND student raped off-campus 
A Notre Dame female student 
living alone off-campus reported to 
South Bend Police that she was 
raped in her residence on Sept. 23. 
The incident came to the atten­
tion of Notre Dame officials on Oct. 
2. South Bend Police say they are continuing their investigation into the assault. 
represent a small number of students." 
Reid stated that the types of groups eligible include halls, for whom this benefit was originally scheduled; classes, such as the class of '79; and clubs registered with the Activities Office. Classes are usually the largest groups, and thus are awarded two dates. 
Groups must enter a lottery, which assigns locations for the stands. The Student Activities Office holds the lottery and then issues permits to the groups for their assigned spots. 
The group must always have the permit with them and also must abide by health regulations. Health regulations include keeping the hands of the workers clean and the area around the food free from filth, Reid stated. 
Site 
Sorin 
Alumni 
Dillon 
Crossroads 
B-P-Fieldhouse 
Cav-Fieldhouse 
LaFortune Center 
Law Building 
O'Shaughnessy-Stadium 
Eng. Building 
So. Dining Hall 
Badin 
them a slogan." he explained. 
Hebert. however, said that he had heard that it was planned at the Stanford end. 
Fr. Richard Conyers. Keenan rectm, agreed that the occurance was the "Second Annual Pillow Fight." He compared it to anny pre-game event. "It wasn't a good idea but once it got started there was no stopping it. I didn't think it 
was a good idea because tempers were high. The two main issues being Za-land the Keenan-Stanford joint food sales. and also last year's inter hall football game," Conyers 
claimed. 






~SENIOR TRIPf 
THE BALANCE OF PAYMENT DUE IS DUE ALL 
THIS WEEK 

FROM 2-4 PM IN BALLROOM LAFORTUNE FOR NOTRE DAME SENIORS i= RoqM 168 L~MANS F~R ST· MARY'S S~NIORS:, 
p 

In a memo to all participating students Reid listed some safety rules such as "keeping grills up off the ground and putting out coals to prevent fires." The fire depart­ment was called to put out a fire "started due to the carelessness in this regard on one occasion last year," Reid's memo said. 
In addition, Reid's office asks eack group for a resume on the amount of food and merchandise sold, and the quantity of materials, such as charcoal, hamburgers and soda, that was used. 
This practice has been helpful in the past, according to Reid, in giving other groups an idea of what to buy and sell. Reid said that many groups sell what they have left over to other groups to avoid waste and reduce losses. 
The Knights of Columbus is given a stand for each game and does not participate in the lottery since the proceeds go to Cervilla. a home for retarded young adults. 
A check of applications this year bv the Activities office found some g~oups to be ficticious. existing only on paper. Reid stated that these "students were operating the stands for personal gain." Reid referred the four students involved to Dean Roemer and all were fined. 
Reid added that the office does not run periodic checks since they "assume the applications to be valid." 
The recent investigation was the result of suspicions within the Activities office about the legiti­macy of some groups. 
Reid concluded that the purpose of the organization is to assist the largest number of students pos­sible. and although he does not want to be a disciplinarian, those who usc ·the concession stands solclv for personal gain will be repri.manded. 
Last year at the Keenan-Stanford game. a protest was filed by Keenan. Originally Keenan lost 6-0, but after the protest meeting, Keenan was awarded the game. 
Yesterday, Keenan beat Stan­ford 18-0. Three players were taken to the hospital. two with knee injuries and one with a possible concussion. Conyers remarked, "Keenan is very strong. We have a strong government, judicial board, and a great spirit in the dorm. We want to do everything well. Stanford has us beat in hockey." (Continued on page 6) 
Monday, October 4, 1976 the observer 3 
--~~-----~--------~~~~~~--­
4 
~. 

Army ROTC practiced water training procedure·s on St. Mary's lake last Saturday. (Photo by Janet Carney) 
AAUP purpose outlined 
(Continued from page 1) 

the mediation of problems between the administration and faculty and the research of economic or ~ocial matters relevant to educators. 
Standing committees investigate questions concerning academic freedom and tenure. governance. the status of women and the economic situation of the profes­sion at Notre Dame. Any complica­tions concerning these matters are ironed out by these committees. 
Robinson cited an instance where there was a question in the Academic Council regarding the notification of faculty in cases where their contract was not re­newed. In this situation, a state­ment to the Council from the president of the A.A.U.P. was necessary to resolve the controver­sy. 
Studies regarding salary. retire­ment income. major medical insur­ance. and the education of faculty children are among those gathered thusfar by the Notre Dame chapter. 
Robins-on noted that upon the chapter's recommendation, hteNa­tional A.A.U.P. selected University President Theodore Hesburgh as
the 1970 recipient of the Alexander Meiklejohn Award for "outstand­ing contribution to academic free­dom... The Notre Dame chapter also sends annual figures to the National A.A.U.P. on faculty sala­ries and benefits. Asked how Notre Dame professors rank on faculty compensation, Robinson res­ponded wryly. "Not very well 
nationally." Faculty are divided into four categories and ranked accordingly. 
We are related in the middle on two ranks and on two ranks we are below average," he stated. 
.-• 

Robin~on urged more faL·uJt, member~ to join the Notre Dame <.:hapter in order to prOl'U<.:l' ''a more cogent voire when we recom­mend policies." He empha~ized that ony members belonging to both the National A.A.U.P. and the Notre Dame chapter will be allowed to vote on t'le collective bargaining initiation procedures on October 14. 

Fran DeMarko says: "IF YOU HAVE TWO LEFT FEET ... 
YOU ALWAYS HAVE A 50-50 CHANCE OF BEING RIGHT"! so 
II usE THIS FOOT TO GET YOU IN FIRST LESSON" (ONLY) 
(CLIP THIS 12" AD AND PRESENT TO FRAN) 

LAFORTUNE 
at 
BALLROOM 
MONDAY EVE 7PM 

SHARP!! OCT. 6, 1976 
(AND EACH MON. EVE TH EREAFTERl 
STUDENTS .•. COME ALONE ... GROUP •.• DATE 

CHANGE PARTNERS EVERY MINUTE ALL EVE! 
$2 FOR LESSON WITHOUT THIS AD FOR 

FRAN SAYS: "LEARN THE VERY NEW CONTACT ROCK 'N' ROLL AND MANY OTHER TOUCH DANCES" NO APPOINTMENT GET STARTED THIS MONDAY 
7 PM SHARP! ALWAYS A BEGINNER'S 
LESSON 

*The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. CommEntaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column .space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Business Manager Tom Fronczak Advertising Manager ,Mike Miller F:wto Editor Tony Chifari Production Manager Martha L. !=Canning 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Phone•(219)283-8661 [NO] (219)284-5365 [SMC] 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Thomas O'Neil Dan Sanchez Chris Smith Gregg Bangs Val Zurblis Pat Hanifin 
Bob Mader Maureen Flynn Marti Hogan 
Don Reimer 
Tim O'Reiley 
FrPd Herbst Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor Asst. Managing Ed. Executive Editor Executive Editor Editorial Editor Exec. News Editor Campus Editor St. Mary's Editor Copy Editr,r Features Editor Sports Editor 
------------------------------------~· 
·Monday, October 4, 1976 


opinion 

Thinking? 
It is "more than possible, what with all the studying and learning, sports and rushing around that goes on here, that people do not spend enough time thinking. 
The immediate reply to this statement might be a somewhat indignant. "What? Not me, I spent all night last night thinking. I studied chemistry. ( ... or philo­sophy....or physics, ... <;>r Account· ing)". 
The problem lies in the different understandings of the word ''think­ing·'. There is a difference between "thinking something", and "think­ing about something". 
There are two levels to consider here. On the first level, a person 'thinks' a thought, ''I'm bored". On the second level a person 'thinks about' a thought already conceived. "I know I'm bored, so what do I do?" 
Teilhard Chardin believed that it is this capacity to think on a second level that distinguishes human beings from animals. We not only "know something", that is.we have le?rned it; we ''know that we know"--we can wonder about what it is we have learned. 
We arrange our first level know­ledge into our own specific order of priorities. On the second level, using our knowledge, we form relationships between ourselves and things not ourselves. We decide how we should act, and are able to judge whether or not our actions are right or wrong. People do not do enough thinking of this kind. 
It is not enough to learn the techniques of an operation, whether it be a math problem, or a philosophy treatise. We should also understand what it is we are doing. 
"I can do it, but I don't know what I'm doing." is a typical human complaint. When an as­sembly-line worker connects a blue wire to a red knob, the worker knows what he is doing in the sense that he can say "I am connecting a blue wire to a red knob." He generally has no idea of what he is doing in the sense that he knows why making this connection works in the finished product. 
It is important that we learn to know what we are doing in the deeper sense, and why. We should watch to see what effect our actions have on ourselves and others. We should question ourselves and our priorities over and over again. Are we doing what's good for us? Are we doing what's good for others? (These two things are not neces­sarily mutually exclusive.) It is our responsibility to search for more input and think about it. 
When people say of a book, "Wow, that book made me think," they do not mean that they have understood only the plot or char­acters. They mean they have 
mike richter 
somehow been broadened. They 
have been induced to question and 
reconsider their priorities. 
Our time spent here at school should not be spent only studying and learning skills, but also consid­ering what having these skills will mean to us and the world around us. 
A values seminar is now offered to seniors for the purpose of encouraging them to think. Such questions as: What are we doing here?, What are our goals?, What should they be?, What do we want to make of ourselves?, Will we as Notre Dame graduates have any responsibility to anyone but .our­selves?, What about our com­munity? All these questions should be thought about, not only by seniors, and not only in a classroom once a week. They shouid become a part of us. We should ask them over and over to keep us thinking. 
If we continue to learn, without thinking and questioning what it is that we are learning or how what we learn fits into us as people, the result will be graduates who, like automatons, are capable of per­forming tasks. They will have no conception of what they are doing, or why. They will not know who they are, or where they are going. They will not be aware enough to discern whether what they are domg IS right or wrong, nor realize it is important to know the dif­ference. 
P. 0. Box Q 
Sexism at Rag 
Dear Editor: 

Sexism is a hard enough battle to fight on this campus without the endorsement it has recently been getting from the campus news­paper. I am referring here, not only to its review of Holly's Landing but also its moronic critique of "Char­lie's Angels" and its most recent insult, "Away Cheerleader of the Week." 
Not only is it insulting to those expecting better taste than a pin-up in their campus newspaper, but it is an insult to our own cheerleaders 
who work  very  hard and  receive  
one  token  article  a  year  in  The  
Observer.  

In their attempt to become a mod and relevant facet of Notre Dame life. the editors of The Observer are losing touch with the social aware­ness many are beginning to realize in the "real world." 
The editors should at least be aware enough to realize that com­ments like, "I can't write about "Charlie's Angels" because my editors don't allow me to drool on the copy,'' are not funny. They are insulting. 
The Holly's Landing review has already been criticized, the "Char­lie's Angels" comments were done on a sixth grade mentality and the "Away Cheerleader of the Week" pin-up is nothing more than some­thing for a lonely Domer to think about after he's sure his roommate is asleep. 
IfObserver editors are not aware enough to catch these slip-ups and put a halt to them, perhaps they should recruit an advisor to help them. The students will only begin to respect The Observer when the 
editors begin to. 

Andy Praschak 
Strikes Back 
.. 

Dear Editor: 
Although a careful reading of the transcripts from the food sales arbitration proceedings, provided to both halls by Dean Roemer, would dispense with most of the questions raised by Steve Soinnick (in his Letter to the Editor--"Food Sales Decision Attacked), we at Keenan feel obligated to respond briefly in order to set the public record straight. 
First, in regards to the question of common space, Mr. Sonnick bases his attack on an earlier comment made by Fr. Lally which was apparently misunderstood. Certainly the basement of 'Keenan is university property and, there­fore, the location of Za-land alone does not create a legal basis for our claim. However, the laundry room at Farley is university property as well and yet does not constitute common ground for all male residents on the North Quad. 
Furthermore, while not serving as a strictlY, legal claim. Our contention that the present ar­rangement is an infringement on our community space is a valid claim which was not contested by Fr. Lally. The Standford attempt to pick on the technicality of a University definition then, just didn't carry any weight in arbitra­tion. 
Mr. Sonnick then delivered an unwarranted attack on Dean Roe­mer, an arbitrator that they them­selves helped to select. An arbitrator's obligation is to be fair, but not to render a decision which appears acceptable to both sides . Our very resort to compulsory arbitration indicates that neither side could· agree on what was best and thus the decision of the arbitrator cannot be expected to appease both sides totally. To infer, in any way, that Dean Roemer did not approach the proceedings with a fair and open mind would be unjustified. 
_ As far as "copping out" goes, Stanford's interest in community between the halls has not been reflected in their willingness to share the work evenly during Za-land's first few weeks this year. Seeing as how food sales has been the source of conflict between the two halls, its separation would appear to be the answer to our grief. Finally, unlike Mr. Sonnick, we don't wonder about this decision's effect on America; we only wonder why Stanford can't set up their own operation. 
Erin Dwyer and other Keenan Residents 
DOONESBURY 

WASHINGTON--I keep wracking my brain trying to think what the Great Debate between Gerry Ford and Jimmy Carter could have used, and the only thing I keep coming up with is Howard Cosell. Had Ho­ward been the sole questioner, it's doubtful that anyone would have called the confrontation between the two presidential candidates boring. 
This is the way it would have gone if the League of Women Voters had had the good sense to turn over the debate to America's favorite sportscaster: 
''Good evening, ladies and gen­tlemen. This is Howard Cosell speaking to you from ringside at the Walnut Street Theater in Philadelphia. We are about to watch a 90-minute debate between two '?lediocre men who, frankly, surpnsed me by getting the nom­inations of their respective parties. I'm sorry, folks, but I'm telling it like it is. 
"Jimmy Carter is practically an unknown politician who squeaked through the primaries to become the Democratic Party candidate. He has little or no experience in government and is as confused about the issues as any man this reporter has ever watched. 
"His opponent became Presi­dent by accident, and Gerry Ford, if you want my honest opinion, will never go down in history with the great ones. Even as the incumbent President of the United States, he just managed to squeak out a narrow victory over the former actor and ex-governor of California who, in my book, was miscast as 'The Gipper' in a 'B' movie titled 'Knute Rockne.' · 
"Now, gentlemen, I am going to ask you some questions and I want tstraight answers. 
"My first question is to you, Mr. 
President. Why did you pardon a · ~ro~k who. admitted to obstructing · JUStice wh1le he held the highest 
office in the land?'' 

"Well, Howard, I thought he had suffered enough. He had been forced to resign from the highest office in the land and I believed that was punishment enough." 
"A likely story, Mr. President, but I just can't buy it. I know for a fact that Gen. AI Haig came to you and proposed a pardon for Nixon before Tricky Dick offered to resign. But that's neither here nor there. My next question.is to you, Mr. Carter. What makes you think you have the experience and ability 

by Garry Trudeau 
5/R,U/EHAV/3N'T 

"PI.AYBOY"?! HIIDTIME7D MJN/lR IAJHY OIPN'T M/$ Tleerr'S evERY YOIJ AtatrMe MO~! 71/ea:Fa15 
EARI.J&R.?! ~AS \ IT 15.' 

to be President of the United States after the mess you perpetrated in Georgia when you lived in the governor's mansion?" 
"I didn't leave a mess in Georgia. When I became governor there ,;rere 200 separate bureaus ~nd ... 
"Mr. Carter, can we leave statistics out of this? Just answer the question yes or no." 
"Yes or no what?" 

"I thought as much. You're still as confused about the issues as when you started the campaign. All right, let's go on to something else. Mr. President, where do you stand on taxes?" 
"I believe the middle-class work­er should get some tax relief, and I have proposed several bills which the Democratic Congress has seen fit..." 
"Mr. President, may I remind you we're on the air and no one cares what disagreements you have with Congress. Mr. Carter, would you please answer the question?" 
"I believe that if you read my tax proposals, you will see I am for cutting out tax loopholes for the rich and the large corporations and helping the little fellow who cannot avail himself of high-priced lawyers and accountants who ... " 
"I'm sorry, Governor, we have to keep moving along and since neither one of you has answered the question, let me ask this of you. Where do you stand on the FBI and CIA violating the laws of the land, Mr. President?" 
"When I came into the White House, the first thing I did was to clean out the FBI and CIA and the record will' show that both these agencies are now doing a superb job." · 
"That's your story. Mr. Carter, what do you have to say about Mr. Ford's ridiculous response?" 
Suddenly the sound goes off as Gov. Carter starts to speak. 
Twenty-eight minutes later it is resotred. Cose)l is speaking. "Ladies and gentlemen, as you are aware, we lost the· sound for the past 28 minutes which, in my personal opinion, was a blessing. There doesn't seem to be any necessity to continue this discus­sion because it certainly wasn't the type of debate we had been led to believe it would be. Let's be honest. h was a dreary 90 minutes of shadow boxing, the likes of which I haven't seen since Muhammad Ali fought Chilblain Semko in Finalnd in 1969. I'm sorry to have to say this, but I have to tell it like it is.'' 
_ _ _ _ _ _ __.-Monday, October 4,1976 
the observer 

~iflToUthBena· 
Horsepower ~---------The Prophesy 
By Lisa Moore 
"He blinded six horses with a metal spike ... " 

There is one emotion which indicates the success of an intensely played and intense­ly felt drama --intellectual exhaustion. After enthusiastically expressing my ap­preciation at the curtain ·call following Peter Shaffer's Equus Saturday night, I leaned back in my red velvet seat realizing that I was emotionally drained after having witnessed -yes, I will venture to say it -the best theatrical production I have ever seen on any stage. 
Equus is a thoroughly modern produc­tion. Stripped of realistic setting and unleashed of conventional boundaries of time and place, it portrays a dissection of the psyches of its two main characters: the seventeen-year-old psychotic Alan Strang (Bill Barrett) and the middle-aged psychia­trist, Martin Dysart (David Leary). 
Some audience members sat on semicir­cular bleachers on the Morris Civic stage creating the illusion of an observation deck of doctors circled around on operating table. Fitting -for we witnessed a gradual . but sure stripping of superficial defenses and the exposure of two souls: one .perverted because of his lack of it. 
The stage was made of stack wood, and resembled in shaped and purpose a boxing ring. Serving as psychiatrist's office, a field of sexual ecstacy, a skin-flick theatre and a dark stable which houses sexual initiation. the stage primarily encloses and faces characters against agressive and fierce opponents which inevitably turn out to be their own personalities. The lighting was expressive and very complimentary to the action, except for one obnoxious follow spot, always abrupt and always a second behind the performer. 
Anthony Perkins, Anthony Hopkins and the god himself, Richard Burton, have played the challenging role of Dr. Martin Dysart on the New York stage. But David Leary, who was the understudy for the Burton show, was superb. With a voice suggestive of Burton's and a domineering and attractive presence, he was the bridge between the audience and the heightened dramatic forms of the play. His brilliant command and control of the character allowed us to sympathize with and share Dysart's strange feelings of envy toward Alan's passion and see the doctor's awakening to his own disease: bondage to a life devoid of fervor. 
Mr. Barrett, who portrayed Alan, did so with ease and sensitivity, yet making Alan appear immature. But the scenes in which Alan triumphantly rides his god, Equua, in a misty Hampshire field exploited all of toe emotion that Shaffer's script offers and his dialogues with Dysart evoke that pleasing blend of amusement and intrigue. 
Times must be a-changin'; a nude scene took place on a stage in.South Bend, Indiana this weekend ... twice. There were no nervous coughs or uneasy snickers. The scene was meant to shock -indeed it did ­you could have heard a horse's breath in that auditorium. The audience had caught the extreme intensity, appreciated it, and responded to it with silence and utmost attention -this is the highest expression of respect an artist can'receive. It is a natural metaphor, this gesture of complete expo­sure, of stripping away the superficial to shed light on an inner truth beyond any psychological garments. And if a nude scene works here in Hoosierland, you know it works. 
The supporting cast, who shared the bleacher seats with some actual audience members left nothing to be desired. We saw each of them in light of their relation to Alan: the magistrate who heard his case, his parents, his girlfriend and his gods, the horses. 
The Romans set their actors upon elevating shoes and gave them huge, symbolic masks to wear. Here, in a modern play which questions society's use for a god, six horses are protrayed by men in brown turtleneck sweaters, 4" high metal "hooves", wearing wire masks which outline the form of horses' heads. Through mime, we actually see horses, though no attempt is made at realism. The power of the human ability to imagine is exploited by a technical designer with a keen sense of symbol. Result: art. 
I had read and studied Equus several times before this Saturday night, and entered that gaudy theatre wondering if I could be genuinely shocked or intrigued by .what it could offer. But when I heard the clomps of those metal hooves on the wooden stage and heard Alan's cry of "Hal Ha!" as his field of worship spun faster and faster. and heard Dysart speak those powerful monologues, I knew different. I knew then the supremecy of the dramatic production over the literary form and felt an empathy with Dysart in the realization that the sensual gut emotion is more truly human than the intellect. 
Movies 
The MagiiiflCeilt Obsession 
By David 0'Keefe 
Michael and Elizabeth Courtland (Ciff Robertson and Genevieve Bujold) repre­sent, as a guest at their tenth anniversary party it, "the last great romance of our time." They are a beautiful young couple, very, rich, very happy and very much in love. 
As the movie begins, the party has ended and Michael and Elizabeth prepare to share an intimate moment of lovemaking_ when cries are heard from their young daughter's room. Michael looks lovingly after Elizabeth as she goes to soothe her baby's nightmare. She is gone too long, and when Michael follows her to the room he into a nightmare of his own. The room is empty; a ransom note hangs from the bedpost. 
The police-are notified the next day and convince Courtland to let them handle the matter. He goes through with the plan that leads them to the kidnapers' hideout. But the abductors escape with the girl and Elizabeth as hostages. The police pursue them, only to have the chase end when the kidnapers' car runs off a bridge, explodes in flames and plunges into the Mississippi. 
Sixteen years later we see Michael at his office, still a very handsome and wealthy man. But his eyes are still misted as they were that night so long ago when the flames of the wreckage were reflected in his stare. It has been 16 years and he has not forgotten, nor has he forgiven himself for their deaths. 
He is looking forward to the business trip to Venice. He had met Elizabeth in Venice, and upon arriving goes to visit the church where he first saw her. As he walks up th aisle, he looks sad, and his thoughts are far away. And then, there in the church, working on the restoration of a religious 
painting, is Elizabeth's double, an Italian girl named Sandra. What happens to 
Su~(~m~ey~~B~~d)udMi~el'~---~---~-~~~~~~-=~~~~n~a~e~~~~·~nn~I~~L··-----~ 
By Nicholas Durso 
''Break heart, I prithee, break ... '' King lear (V,iii) 
Bernard' Shaw's Heartbreak House is packed with a prophetic fury; although not originally produced until1920 it was begun before the war (1913) and it is the most turbulent of Shaw's plays. It illustrates that the playwright was far from cheerful and delightfully eccentric. The pessimistic tone and dark mood of the play suggest that Shaw was coming close to discontent, if not total despair. Shaw's own romantic­ism had been lost in the face of the war, yet he continued to lash out at the aimlessness he thought to be the disease of the times. 
The negative side of the play deals with the tragic, complex confusion and empti­ness of ethical standards and the inability of man to wish, will or create. The positive side of the play deals with every man's search for identity and every man's attempt through contemplation to discover his own real desires. 
Shaw fills the plot of the play with a series of implausible happenings and the entire play has the quality of a dream. The characters themselves are dreamlike and the play has more of the flavor of Alice in Wonderland, a fantasia or a cornucopia of absurd events. 
It was a new mood filled with new dramatic devices for Shaw. He discourag­ed too much concentration on a single character and Frederi~ Syburg, the director of the current ND-SMC production, sue­ceeds in placing a Chekovian emphasis upon the group picture. Nevertheless, individual performances stand out, as they always do in college productions, and several are worthy of attention. 
Through the character of Captain Shot-over, Shaw expresses the idleness and ennui of his characters and Shaw is also able to display his anger at society through the old captain and his desire to "Blow up the human race if it goes too far." 
Daniel Daily, in the role of Shotover, has finally found a part that fits him perfectly. Mr. Daily carefully portrays the eighty-eight year old captain as a Don Quixote who has lost his romantic enthusiasm. Yet Mr. Daily evinces a subtlety that is even greater than this. He gently places the captain somewhere between Quixote's triumphant assertion "I kno\\· who I am and what I can be" and Lear's fearful question "who is it that can tell me who I am?" The most important nuance for the actor playing the role of Shotover is to allow us to see the captain's sagacity as a mask or pose and Mr. Daily achieves this. He has built heartbreak house as his own Noah's ark and he looks comfortable in it. 
Mr. Daily.shares the opemng scene of the play with Bridget Ragan in the character of Ellie Dunn. If Shotover is at home in Heartbreak House, Ellie never quite fits. Ellie's main function in the play is that of a pupil and the entire play turns upon her performance. The house be­comes her classroom where she learns the ease with which her preconceived defini­tions can be penetrated and destroyed by alien definitions. Miss Ragan shows us every side of Ellie and her transition from eager ingenue to a mature woman with a firm willingness to fight for what she wants is achieved with the charm, grace and control of an experienced actress. Miss Ragan has little trouble convincing us that Ellie is shucked of her illusions and that she of all the characters is ripest for a broken heart. 
Michele Roberge. as the mischevi,lu~ fox Hesione, along with Mr. Daily and Mi~~ Ragan, seem to be the only people in thi~ production capable of handling Shaw's language. Matt McKenzie. as Hector Hushabye. has the onlv voice for the comic and at times even fa~cical diction of the play that is so important in marking the casual and intense relationships in the house. but Mr. McKenzie too often weave~ in and out of both a Yorkshire and New York accent. However. he docs let us ~cc Hector as the cool hcro-pt,~cur. a comedic Hamlet and unphilosophil'al Don Juan. who is himself aware that his histrionics are melodramatic and absurd. With the exception of his brief bit of fencing business in Act I. Mr. McKenzie. like Celeste Volz. as Ariadne, rarclv lets us see the person behind the pose.· 
Steve Rogers. as Randall Utterwood. Lous St. Ville as Nurse Guincss and John 
P. Walker as the Burglar. deserve special mention for the manner in which thev capture a true British spirit and a naturalness on stage that Shaw himself would be pleased with. 
The only unfortunate f1gure in Mr. Syburg's group picture is Stephen Hudock as Boss Mangan. Boss is intended to represent Shaw's conception of contempor· ary industrial capitalism. But Mr. Hudock gives us only a caricature of a caricature and we can't believe in him. 
One of the most impressive aspects of the production is the setting and lighting by a newcomer to the theatre department, Mr. David Weber. Mr. Weber's work is the most· imaginative and best executed that I've seen on the O'Laughlin stage. He shows all of the concern for detail that Shaw requires. 
Mr. Weber has the supreme gift of the artist: he knows when to stop. Costume designer, and fellow newcomer, Diana Hawfield, however, does not. I can't help but feel that Ms. Hawfield is too often gratuitously indulging in her own creative fancies. Shaw requires that Miss Dunn be "Nicely but not expensively dressed" -· he does not require that her first act dress look like a .costume let alone baggy women's lingerie. 
We, like Ellie at the end of the play, wait as we waited at the beginning only without our ron1ant1·c 1"llus1·o "th th h f 
ns WI e ope o a

destruct1"o th t b · b" th It · 
n a can nng re lr . IS an

end1·n,n a d b •n; · •n 
cannot in all fairness be told suspense and 
without ruining the movie. Suffice it to say 
that the surprises and indentitites revealed 
in the rest of the film constitute a classic 
work of suspense and mystery on film. 
So begins Obession, Director Brian De 
Palma's bold sojourn into the territory that 
up until now has been the .exclusive realm 
of Alfred Hitchcock. From the very 
beginning, Obsession hits like a river to the 
gut and rarely lets go. We are always 
unsure, often confused, and never relived. 
It is an intense movie, emotionally 
exhausting and powerfully suspenseful. It 
is a fine example of an all but forgotten 
formula that has been left to Hitchcock 
alone to develop, most likely because no 
one until DePalma dared to take him on. 
But with Obsession, De Palma designates 
himself heir-apparent to the master of 
psycholocical thriller. 

Cliff Robertson is cast in a very diffecult role. Micael Courtland experiences a vast and varied emotions, often simultaneously, . and Robertson sometimes seems as con­fused by his character as we are. But he is ultimately convincing primarily owing to the versatility that makes him equally adept with the meaningful phrase as the 
with the longing gaze. 

Obsession is a triumph of mind over 
matter. It is so well done that the intrinsic 
improbablility of the plot never becomes 
problem. Our willingness to believe sub­
verts our cynicism and releases us from our 
self-inflicted bondage to realism. Hope­
fully, Obsession marks a new beginning in 
film instead of representing the last great 
romance of our time. . 
Frontie_r Reuisited 
By David Buchbinder 
The allure of that ever receding line of the frontier has long been a major theme of American literature and art. The unknown quantity just beyond the horizon has always driven us to ever greater heights-­or to ever greater depths. . 
There are but two options in relation to the frontier. One can adapt to it, or one can conquer and pacify it, destroying it in the process. Americans, in our ignorance, chose the latter course. The Return of A Man Called Horse, now playing at the Scottsdale Theatre, opts for the former course, giving us in the. process a somewhat romanticiz.ed view of what should have been. 
The Return of A Man Called Horse is one of the better films to appear in South Bend in quite some time. Shifting from the white man's mercenary exploitation and con­quest of he American frontier, to the hypocritical pretense of pre-Victorian England and then back to a romantic construction of our lost frontier, Horse portrays the continuing exploits of Lord John Morgan (extremely well played by Richard Harris) as he seeks to liberate himse'!f and the Yellow Hands Sioux from an apparent hopelessness of existence-­Morgan's in the soul and the Yellow Hantls' in body. 
The film even tells us that there is a legend of such a creature among the Sioux. Historical fact tells us otherwise, and the film alludes to this in a discussion of the asymmetrical property values of the White and Red man. 
Morgan tries. at one point. to explain to his adopted tribe that man owns land. This is incomprehensible to the Yellow Hands who reply, "How can man own land?" Harris can give no reason.; to the Yellow Hands, but the answer is simple, The White men have guns, hence power. 
The cinematography in Horse is excel­lent. The hearty of the Northern Plains as portrayed in the film serves as more than mere backdrop, playing its own part in the dynamic scheme of this film. The musical score, although not perfection, is quite good and often helps to clarigy some subtle points of comparison between the Northern Plains circa 1830 and England of the same period. The authenticity present in all of Harris' frontier films is also substantially retained in this latest attempt. · 
Containing enough adventure and action to entertain most, Horse is still rich in texture and structural depth. One can view the film from perspectives of romanticism, religious allegory or even Twentieth Cen­tury National Liberation. 
It is often said that sequels do not compare to the original film. The Return of a Man Called Horse is an exception to this. It is a must for any fan of the original (A Man Called Horse) but stands by itself as a first rate work of cinematic art. 
the observer Monday, October 4, 1976 
Carmichael comments on American society 
(Continued from page 1) 

observed. "Even Kissinger isn't 
stupid enough to send troops to 
South Africa." 

Carmichael described the white 
domination of African nations as a 
"shame on humanity: It is an issue 
that runs deep in the hearts of 
people," he said and anyone who 
believes that the present situation 
is right is "backward." 

Ian Smith, prime minister of 
Rhodesia, is "doomed," Carmic­
hael said. "Negotiate? Negotiate 
what?! All Mr Smith can do is 
surrender, and surrender with 
honor." 

He accused Secretary of State 
Henry Kissinger and the U.S. 
gmcrnment of trying to install a
·'reactionary African president in Angola" and said that a similar attempt in South Africa "will fail" also. 
African or American? 

·'There is nothing that man .vould not try to do," Carmichael .;aid of Kissinger, and "This gov­ernment cares nothing about the African in America, so how can it :are about our brothers 10.000 miles away?" he asked. 
Oktoberfest callec 'great success' 
by Honey McHugh Staff Reporter 

Oktoberfest arrived early on the St. Mary's campus this year. The two-day long celebration was "a great success" according to Mary Klassen. Social Commision presi­dent. 
Highlights of the Fest included hall decorations, Happy Hour, a beer garden. a Regina dance featuring Sahara and the Marx Brothers' film "Horsefeathers." Campus sidewalks and two of the shuttle buses were also decorated for the event. 
The annual affair, a welcome orcak from tests and papers, was the result of weeks of preparation. 
·'I was happy with the total Jutcome of the Fest, especially .vhen you consider the fact that it is a drinking celebration and that's bad news," stated JoAnn Baggiano. Special Events Chair­llan of the Social Commision. 
Thanks to the band, Sahara, the Regina dance was a tremendous ;uccess. Baggiano added. 
Regina Hall also went on to win he hall decorating contest with 1mrals in "The Sound of Music" heme. Each floor in Regina was Jecorated by its residents, in a 
:ffort to involve more students and bring about a spirit of cooperation within the hall. 
"On the whole, everything went 
veil and there were no complaints 
·rom security about anyone's be­
lavior," remarked Klassen, "but 
1·e were sorry that the beer ran out 
or a while at the beer garden." 

Nevertheless. the· general con­sensus seems to be that the 1976 Oktoberfest was a huge succ_ess. 
Stanford, Keenan 
¥age pillow war 

Continued from page 1) Stanford considerPd themselves <ictors in the pillow fight, but Keenan R.A. Aron Dwyer said: 'If they consider the pillow fight a victory despite the unfair odds, then Mexicans can consider the Alamo a victory." Montgomery commented, "The pillow fight was cool. When the ~iris came out, the guys dropped heir differences and went after hem." He was referring to the ~harge toward a group of girls near ~arley Hall at one point during the ight. "Our mistake was in drawing lttention to ourselves We started ~heering for Keenan, said Katie 
Carmichael insisted that blacks The challenger replied to Carmic­Carmichael noted that Jews, ther are more blacks in Americain America are "African" and not hael's emphasis on the struggle for "Born in America," Israel as their than Jews in America--quantita­"Afro-American." "The African the land of Africa by saying, "This homeland. "No one ever tries to tively speaking."in American has only one home-­is the land our mothers and fathers 
stop the Jewish student from Carmichael described Israel asAfrica." he said. "He didn't come 
struggled for." identifying with Israel," he said. "unjustly, immorally and illegallyhere because he was running from "Culture is not stagnant," the "College and university students established" and said that a Pales­
a potato famine or religious intoler­questioner continued. "The blues write articles about Israel, they tinian victory is assured. The land ance. He came on a slave ship, 
did not come from Africa.'' He raise money for Israel." belongs to the Palestinians, heinvoluntarily. He has no responsi­admitted the importance of "the "America's foreign policy to Africa said. The Jews were persecuted inbility to this country." source" and of tradition, but asked is nothing. It's foreign policy to Europe never by the Arabs. "I do
Carmichael's application of the "Why are you talking about going Israel is exaclty what the Zionists not want to kick the Jews out,"
term "African" to the blacks living 
back to Africa?" want," Carmichael claimed. "The Carmichael emphasized. "I want toin America was challenged during You struggle wherever you U.S. gives more aid to Israel than see the Zionist state of Israel
the question-and-answer period. are," Carmichael conceded. 
to any other foreign country, but destroyed." 
----------------------------------------------------, 
The und Room 100 Challenge 


We've got $100 waiting for you. Bring in any commercially available receiver, regardless of price (except for another Harman Kardon product ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8th FROM NOON 'TILL 8 P.M. If that receiver surpasses the square wave • response of the Harman Kardon 430 or 730 at 20Hz and 20,000Hz, we'll give you the $100. 
Why are we making this challenge? Square wave 11111 response is profoundly useful because it is a precise measurement of musical 
quality. It can be said that an instrument which 
fails to produce an excellent square wave 11111 re­
sponse is limited in musical authenticity. So 
come on in and match your receiver's square 
wave IIIII response against the 430 and 730. If 
it's better, you get $100-cash. If not, listen to 
the 430 and 730. You'll find that in all but 
absolute power levels, they're the sonic equival­
ents of any individual component system. The 
implication of a comparison with conventional 
receivers is obvious. 
Clinic -Friday October 8th Noon -8 p.m. 

Free
Clinic 
Headphones
Week 
Come see and hear the new HARMAN KARDON HK 430 AM I FM stereo recei­ver during the week of our square wave
Special 
clinic. You'll be amazed at the sound you'll hear. Buy one this week and we'll give you a $20 pair of headphones 
FREE! 
fW TI-E 
~~ 
SOUN> 
MICHIGAN &INDIANA 
SOUTH BEND: 52578 US 31 NORTH/277-1515. 
c 1976, The Sound Room 





(erwin, a Farley junior..• '.· • • •• •. · · · · · · .... 
Monday, October 4, 1976 
the observer 

St.-Mary's volleyball 
Denver 26, San Diego 0 Bears 33, Washington 7 team opens in Valpo 

DENVER AP -Rick Upchurch returned a punt f 92 CHICAGO AP-Bob Avellini and Walter Payton led a yards for a touchdown and caught a 57-yard pass that lively Chicago offense Sunday which, compled with an set up one of Jim Turner's four field goals, and aggressive defense, paced the Bears to a 33-7 upset Denver's brutal defense did the rest in the Bronco's Sunday of the Washington Redskins in National 26-0 victory over the San Diego Chargers in National League action. Football League action Sunday. The Redskins averted a shutout when they scored 
with one second left on a one-yard pass from Joe 
L.A. 31, Miami 28 Theismann to Jerry Smith after the Bears were called 
for pass interference. MIAMI AP-Tom Dempsey's 19-yard field goal with 
Buffalo 50, K.C. 17
1:56 remaining Sunday gave the Los Angeles a 31-28 come-fro~-behind vict~ry over the Mia~i Dolphins as BUFFALO AP _O.J. Simpson ran for 130 yards in his the Rams James Hams passed for 43o yards. first big performance of the season and quarterback .The_ victory -:vas secured when D~ve Elmendo:£ and Joe Ferguson passed for three touchdowns as the 
Btll .Stmps_on mtercepted Bo~ Grtese passes m the Buffalo Bills crushed the Kansas City Chiefs 50-17 
closmg mmutes of the Natwnal Football League Sunday for their second straight National Football 
game. League victory. 
Jeff Kinney, waived by the Chiefs earlier in the
New England 48,, Oakland 17 season. came back to haunt them with I 14 yards on 17 
::arries as he played beside Simpson in the Buffalo FOXBOROUGH* Mass. AP -Quarterback Steve backfield. Grogan passed for three touchdowns and ran for two others Sunday as the New England Patriots pulled Cincy 45, Cleveland 24 their third consecutive National Football League upset with a thumping 48-17 victory over the Oakland 
CLEVELAND AP -Ken Anderson threw fourRaiders. 
touchdown passes and the Cincinnati Bengals tookProving triumphs over the Miami Dolphins and advantage of repeated errors in a 45-24 NationalPittsburgh Steelers the previous two weekends were Football League victory over the Cleveland Browns far from flukes. hte Patriots wrecked the Oakland 
Sunday.

defense on the ground and in the air while handing hte Raiders their first loss in four games. 
Baltimore 42, Tampa Bay 17Phil. 14, Atlanta 13 
ATLANTA AP -Mike Boryla fired a nine-yard 
BALTIMORE AP -The Baltimore Colts scored on touchdown pass to Charles Young on a fourth down sevn consecutive possessions, two on passes by Bert gamble with only 4:21 remaining Sunday to give he 
Jones. and trounced the Tampa Bay Buccaneers 42-17 Philadelphia Eagles a 14-13 National Football League 
in a penalty-marred National Football Leaguecome-back victory over the Atlanta Falcons. mismatch Sunday. 
St. Louis 27, N.Y. Giants 21 Green Bay 24, Detroit 14 
ST LOUIS AP ~ Reserve running back Steve Jones GREEN BA_Y* Wis. AP -Steve O~om caught a hauled in a Jim Hart pass for a second-period 40-yard sconng pass from hal~ack 'Ntll Harrell and touchdown and smashed three yards for another score set up two other touchdowns wllh a ktckoff return and late in the final period, giving hte St. Louis Cardinals !lanker re~erse. leading the Gree~1 Bay Packers to a a 27-21 National Football League victory Sunday over 24-14 Nat_wnal Football League vtctory Sunday over the New York Giants. . the DetrOit Ltons. 
SMC Tryouts 
Try-outs for the St. Mary's 

Heartbreak
baske.tball team will be held today at 5 p.m. at the courts behind Havican Hall. 
NO 
House 
All students interested in playing 

G. B. Shaw's prophetic
this season are invited to come and 
comedy.
demonstrate their athletic ability. 
Oct. 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 at 8:00p.m.
SMC

FAST '~ 
THEATRE 

All seats $2.50
TYPEWRITER J 
O'LAUGHLIN ($2 Std-Fac-Staff)AUDITORIUM Special Rate 4 P!ays 
REPAIR 
IJ:I:I:Itl 

Phone: 284-4176 
--.--·--------------------­
2915 Mishawaka Ave: 
Notices 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. 
Will do typing: themes, manuscripts Call 287-5162. 
Forming an Overeaters Anonymous group on campus-more information later. 
EXPERIENCED PILOT will fly 2 or 3 passengers to destinations within 250-mile radius of N.D. weekends or tor breaks. Return flights can be arranged. Call Jon Reyniers MBlO 3396 days, 684-5867 evenings. 
Why pay more? Flanner Records has $6.98 list L.P.'s for $4.65. Call 1492 or stop by 809 Flanner Hall. 
For Rent 
Single rooms, 511 N. Frances. Call 232-8712. Must like dogs. 
Lost & Found 
Lost: lnstamatic camera at Jack Ford speech. Important pictures. Please call Tony 1247. 
Lost: Light-brown wrap-tie raincoat. Reward! Karen 6994. 
Wanted Need 2 Gen. Adm. tics for Oregon. Phone Bob 255-8660.,. 

I need two GA Oregon tickets. Please call 1010 and ask for John. 
Need 7 Oregon tickets. 259-0631. After 5:00 pm. 
Wanted: pair of Oregon tix for mom and dad! Call 3429. 
Need Oregon GA tickets. Call Ruth 7136 or 272-3513. 
Need 2-4 Alabama tickets. Will pay reasonable price. Call 8042. 
Wanted: 4 Oregon tickets and 2 Miami tickets for brother who couldn't get into this great school. Ray 1417. 
Rich Uncle needs Alabama tickets. Mike 3452. 
Help! Need 2 GA Oregon tickets. Call Gregg at 1650. 
Need 2 GA BAMA tix desperately. Call 1785. 
Desperately need ride to Columbus, Ohio weekend of Oct. 9. Call Gary 1785. 
Addressers wanted Immediately! Work at home--no experience nec­essary--excellent pay. Write Amer­ican Service, Suite, 132, Minne­apolis, Mn. 55426. 
Urgent: Need a place to live. Quiet, non-smoker. Please contact Bill at 7437 till 5 p.m. weekdays. 

Classified Ads 
Need 4 GA Alabama fix. Call 8042. 
'12 GA Alabama tix needed. Desper­ate. Call John 287-6823. 
Roll Tide -got some extra GA fix you wanna get rid of fast? Call Mary 8125. 
Need 2 Bama tix for parents who never have been to an ND game. Mary 8125. 
Ride to Toledo this Friday. Call Peggy 8125. 
USFSA Figure and-or Dance Profes­sional. Call Mrs. Myers. Michiana Figure Skating Club. 287-4524. 
MONEY +WILL PAY NICELY FOR '12 GA Oregon tix. Leslie 8135. 
Wanted: ride to 'Youngstown or vicinity on Oct. 15 or 16. Cathy 4-4770. 
Desperately need 4 Oregon tickets. Call Tim 1061. 
Lots of tix wanted-any home game. Call Tom 287-3689. 
Need 4 Oregon tix-GA-Call Cole 288-5667. 
Need desperately two Alabama GA tickets. Will pay$$. Call 4-5237. 
Debbie Dahrling declared the winner. 
SMC Sports Editor This is the second year with 
volleyball as a varsity sport at St. 
The St. Mary's volleyball team Mary's. There are 18 dedicated journeyed to Valparaiso this past girls on the squad hoping for an Saturday to open their season with exciting season. The major pro­two games against Valparaiso and blem for the team, as with all the St. Joseph's. other sports, is the Jack of a gym for 
practices. This year the team is 
In the first game against Valpa­again practicing in the gym at raiso, it was the best two out of Moreau Seminan· at Notre Dame. three matches with Valparaiso "We can't wait-until the gym i'> easily taking them both, 15-2 . done so we can practice more.· 15-ll. "We worked really well said Barh Burlingham. v,,Jicl ball together for our first game," said coach at St. Man·'!>. Bccau~c St. Diane Klucka, a sophomore on the Mary's has no fac.ilitY on ,·ampu., to team. "We played a fast and sponsor home game~. almost all of quick, but we just couldn't match the game~. arc played at other Valparaiso,·" Klucka said. schools. ""Tra1-cling reallY cut~ a 
lot of your studying time.·· -;aid 
In the second game against St. Klucka. ""but it's a lot of fun.·· Joe's, the speed and quickness of St. Mary's in the first match Coach Burlingham thought rhar 
surprised St. Joe's. St. Mary's ' the team played will in rhier tirsr played impressively and won with a game of the season. ··we are a 
score of 15-3. However. St. young team and considering it was Joeseph's skill and momentum the first time "e played together. came back in the second match to we played well. But 11e should 
reverse the outcome, 15-9. With have won the second game against both teams having won one game, St. Joseph ... the winning team would b the 
winner of the third game. St. Joe's The first home game will be was leading 10-6 when the match played on October 12 against was called because of time,and was IUPU-Ft. Wayne. 

PLUS PARTS, MOST CARS 
SPECIALISTS IN ENGINE TUNE-UP, BRAKES, AIR-CONDITIONING 
Yz BLOCK SOUTH OF MISHAWAKA K-MART 
259-6391
8ANKAM!RICARD 

Mi*M OPEN MON.-SAT. 8-5 
6 GA Oregon tickets. Call 7128. 
Need ride to BUFFALO for October break. Call Chris 6881. 
Rider need to Boston for break. Approximate weight 100 pounds. Must like small foreign cars. For appointment call Jeff or the Coon at 3451. 
For Sale NEW LONDON LAKE CONDO­MINIUM 2 bedrooms, den, 2-car garage. $33,900. Sandy Stroes 272­7750 or 272-2696. 
AM-FM 4 channel Stereo receiver, 66 watts channel stereo. 4 months old. Brian 1777. $400.00 
1972 Prosche 914 sharp. 39,000 miles. Also new. ..S-track stereo recorder-player. Call 287-7818. 
Personals 
I have made a unique discovery! Come see the winner of the Perfect Student of the Year Award, Brian, who lives in 1104 Flanner. Shorty 
TO "SWEETIE" WILKE -A GREAT PINBALL PLAYER AND A REAL DECENT HUMAN BEING. LOVE, THE GUYS 
Deasr Guys, If he ever finds out. ... 
Today is tantalizing Terry Tuohy's 19th birthday. Call 4-4387 and hear 

thos  immortal  words,  "Hi!  I'm  
Terry Tuohy and I love you!"  
ROTC JOCK  (JBM),  I'll open  your  

windows any time. Just give me five minutes! Crackers 
Don't tell me! JBM and ROTC Jock are one and tie same!! Does that make it 10 minutes, Nanovic? 
Terry: Something up! Can you guess? Ric 
RNG, Which do you like better peaches or jello? CCC 
__________.,! _______ 
Is that dirty? 
Val, Sorry you got sick over the weekend. Hope you"re better soon. 7-B Flanner 
Candace, You are the Farah of NO. "Yankee Mike" 
JD. Physics test Thursday. Can you cope? 
Michael, If you can't make it to 'THUNDE ROAD how about the BACKSTREET$? Me 

Dr. Hofman, ThankS a million for taking us with you on Friday. We had a wonderful time!!! Love, Candy, Barb & Gwen 
SKR-, Long time no see. GBC 

• 
.. 

-~-----~­
...,,.------­
Monday, October 4, 1976
the observer 

by Ray O'Brien State running backs and putting
Sports Writer pressure on Spartan quarterback 
Eddie Smith. Ross Browner led the 
This game between Notre Dame way with seven tackles, with every­and Michigan State would be one on defense doing the job.different from last year's, it was "The whole defense was great,obvious from the very start. The especially on key plays. Ross Spartans won the opening toss, (Browner) played super, e­which was a reverse from last ven though he was double team­year's result and the Irish won in ed,'' praised defensive line coach the end 24-6. 
Joe Yonto. Then a bad omen for the Irish on 
All of Notre Dame's scores 
their first offensive play from 
hinged on big plays. The defense scrirnage as AI Hunter burst off also followed this pattern. The best right tackle for twenty-three quick drive of the afternoon started at the 
yards, and shades of the opening Notre Dame 20-yard line in the play against Pittsburgh carne to second quarter, and-lasted eleven 
mind. Notre Dame then ground out plays and ate up over five valuable another first down before stalling. 
minutes on the clock. Torn Domin 
Seconds later, Dave Reeve put played a big part as he hauled in a 
Notre Dame on the scoreboard Slager pass on a crucial third down with a 47-yard field goal (which tied play. Three downs later Domin ran him for the school career mark of 21 a rnisdirecetion play for 24 yardsfield goals). 
into Spartan territory, before Slag­Michigan State, an excellent 
er capped the drive on a nine-yard
passing team, carne out running. toss to fullback Terry Eurick. A This proved to be a fatal mistake as Reeve extra point left the Irish the Irish front four had by far their sitting pretty with a 17-0 halftime best game of the year allowing only lead. 25 yards net rushing for the game. The second half was almost like a 
The Spartans were not allowed a different game, as the Irish accum­first down in their first two posses­ulated penalties and fumbles like sions, as the Notre Dame defense they wanted to make up for such a helped set up a second score. perfect first half. Hunter who had Spartan punter Torn Birney un­gained 69 yards on 14 carries in the 
leashed a sailing 50-yard kick to the first half couldn't find the holes or Notre Dame 28 yard line. This the handle on the ball. Notre Dame outstanding performance was ill­fumbled twice and gave up one 
timed, as the Spartan punter had interception in the second half. outkicked his coverage. The Irish's "We fumbled the first time we gotSteve Schmitz broke a tackle and 
the ball in the third quarter," said 
took off on a brilliant 40-yard 
Irish Head Coach Dan Devine. return. "That didn't help anything. We're Hunter went to work again going to work on fumbles." 
slicing through for good yardage. 

The defense bent but did not 
Seven plays later he was in for the break. The secondary looked score. Reeves' converted the extra 
vulnerable at times, but always
point and Notre Dame had a ten carne up with the big play on 
point lead with less than ten crucial downs. "With Restic, minutes gone in the game. Burgrnieir and Browner switchingThe Spartans didn't get into from offense to defense there is not Notre Dame territory until the much experience in the second­second quarter. The Irish defen­ary," explaineo Devine. "Alto­sive line was smothering Michigan gether, they played well." 

by Patti Doyle Griffing and McKee got together to win their match 6-3,6-0 and the team of Tyrrell, McManus also 
St. Mary's netters once again scored a victory of 6-4,6-3. 
demonstrated their fine tennis On Sunday SMC also displayed
ability this weekend in matches impressive tennis ability by win­against Indiana University, Purdue ning six matches out of nine. Tirnrn University at Fort Wayne. On once again defeated her opponentSaturday SMC triumphed over with a score of 6-l ,6-0. Purcell
• IUPU by winning all nine matches played number two singles and of the day. Number one singles 
came out on top 6-0,6-2, and Griffin 
player Barb Tirnrn "turned in win­took her opponent 6-2,6-3. McKee ning scores of 6-2, 6-1 and Ann won her first set 6-4 but was 
Daniels followed suit by winning outscored by her opponent in the 6-2,6-1. Number three singles final two sets 4-6, 3-6. Maura player Tarnigriffin managed to Finneran took her opponent 6-4,7-5 
• come out on top after a tight match, but number six singles player Sue 7-6,7-6. Marie McKee in the 
Marget fell 6-4,6-0. Daniels and number four position chalked up a 
Griffin teamed up in doubles to final victory after being defeated in defeat the opposition 7-5,7-5.
tile first set 4-6, 6-1, 6-4. Playing Finneran and Purcell lost their first 
number 5 singles Susan Tyrrell 
set 7-6 but carne back to win the
.. outscored her opponent 6-2,6-1 and second set 6-4; they won the third Mary McManus rolled over her 
set by default. Number three opponent with a final score of doubles team Marget, McManus 6-2,6-3. In doubles competition were outscored by the opposition,
Tirnrn and Daniels teamed up to winningonly the second set, 6-4,4­
beat their opposition 6-4,6-4. 6,7-5. " 
Ross Browner had 7 tackles in the game as the Irish defense held Michigan State to 25 net yard~ 
rushing in Saturdays 24-6 win at East Lansing. (Photo by Tony Chifari) 
Michigan State's only scores Restic and Terry-Eurick are not Hunter tired. The Irish running carne on two field goals in the third likely heroes, but both players back finished with 15 carries for 65 quarter. The first one was a contributed vitally in the victory. yards and two receptions for 30 48-yarder by Hans Nielsen that was Restic punted seven times for an yards and a touchdown. Eurick set up by an Irish fumble. Nielsen average of over 46 yards a try, was also responsible for setting up was good again from 29 yards out keeping the Spartans pinned deep the final Notre Dame touchdown. with 4:40 left in the quarter. in their own territory throughout "It's never been easy winning 
This is the third game in a row the _game. The Irish sophomore here," commented Devine. "We that the Irish defense has not given also played superbly in the second­didn't get to do some things we up a touchdown. "That's a ary, picking off a last Spartan pass wanted, but corning out with the remarkable achievement,'' Devine and returning it SO yards to kill a win is the important thing." commented. "We could have drive. Restic felt these two jobs panicked in the third quarter. complimented each other as he The Irish now lead the all-time Some teams lose their poise when stated, "Sitting on the sidelines series 25-16-1. They have been things don't go their way. This and just thinking about punting victorious in seven of the last eight team has exceptional poise for isn't easy. Now I am always meetings, losing last year 10-3. being as young as it is." involved in the game". The Irish are off next week as they 
Two players stood out for Notre Eurick pounded out heavy yard­prepare for their game with the Dame in clinching the win. Joe age in the second half when Ducks of Oregon on Oct. 16. 
Walsh, Lewis score victories 
The extra point attempt was no scoring damage for Lewis it wasby Win Palmer 
golod and the half ended with much more than a one-personSports Writer 
Lyons leading 8-6. team. Credit must go to the Lewis In games played last night at the Walsh struck quickly in the defense which completely shutastroturffield Walsh Hall squeezed second half. Jay Decio picked off a down the Badin offense and to theby Lyons Hall18-16 and Lewis Hall Lyons pass and returned it to the offensive line which opened gaping crushed Badin Hall 18-0. The 
Lyons 18-vard line. holes for the talented trio ofvictory by Lewis gave them undis­Anne Eisele snuck it into the end Behnke, Erin Burns, and Maryputed possession of first place, zone and Walsh led 12-8. The extra Ellen Pearce. 
being the only undefeated team left point attempt was no good. Lewis received the opening kick­
in the league at 3-0. Badin and Lyons promptly drove the ball off and appeared to be stoppedWalsh are currently tied for second down to the Walsh 26-yard scrable, when a succession of penaltieswith 2-1 records. 
capped the scoring drive for Lyons. forced a third and 46 play. But Sue 
Walsh 18 Lyons 16 Jill Delucia pushed her way into the Behnke, running a dive play, Walsh received the opening end zone for the extra point and headed up the middle, broke a kickoff and on the .ifrst play from Lyons led 16-12. tackle and forced her way to the scrimmage Walsh quarterback Walsh struck back as Anne outside from where she sprinted for Anne Eisele's pass was intercepted Eisele lofted a 46-yard bomb to Jay a 74-yard touchdown. The extra by Kathy Gleeson . Two plays Decio for the winning TD. The point attempt was no good. later Michelle O'Haren ran a extra point attempt was no good. Early in the second half it reverse 51 yards for a touchdown. With just under three minutes to go appeared that Badin might soon 
Jill Delucia burst up the middle Lyons got the ball again. get a scoring opportunity as an gave Lyons the extra point and The last play excellent punt by Jane Potileski Lyons led 8-0. Late in· the first of the game, a pass by Jill Delucia, pinned ·Lewis inside their 5-yard h·alf Anne Eisele completed three was broken up by Sue Kunkel and line. However Behnke was just too passes to Jay Decio including a Walsh had held on to win 18-16. much for Badin as first she swept fourth down pass that moved the Lewis 18 Badin 0 around right end for 33 yards to put ball to the Lyons 12-yard line. Lewis was just too much for Lewis out of danger and then she Then on a fourth and three at the Badin in a match between two galloped for 63 yards to put Lewis Lyons 3-yard line Eisele fired a previously unbeaten teams. Al­ahead 18-0. Again the extra point 
ass to Nanc Kirn for the score. thou h Sue Behnke did all the is d. 
Baseball Final Standings 
NATIONAL LEAGUE  AMERICAN LEAGUE  
East  East  
w  L  Pet GB.  w  L  Pet. GB  
Phil a  101  ' 61  .623  N.Y.  97  62  .610  
Pitts  92  70  .568  9  Baltimore  88  74  .537 10.5  
New York  86  76  .531 IS  Cleveland  81  78  .509 16  
Chicago  75  87  .463 26  Boston  83  79  .512 15.5  
St. Louis  72  90  .444 29  Detroit  74  87  .460 24  
Montreal  55  107  .340 46  Milwkee  66  95  .410 31  
West  West  
Cinci  102  60  .630  Kan City  90  72  .556  
Los Ang Houston  92 80  70 82  .568 10 .494 22  Oakland Minnesota  87 85  74 77  .540 2.5 .525 5  
San Fran  74  88  .457 28  California  76  86  .469 14  
San Diego Atlanta  73 70  89 92  .451 29 .432 32  Texas Chicago  76 64  86 97  .469 14 .398 25.5  

CHICAGO AP-Bill Madlock, captured his second straight National League batting crown, smashing four hits in four at-bats as Rick Reuschel, 14-12, scattered eight hits while the Chicago Cubs defeated the Montreal Expos 8-2 Sunday. 
The four-hit performance by Madlock lifted hi.s average to .338. He finished two errentage points ahead of Cincinnati's Ken Griffe . 



