Early-morning registration 
Notre Dame students celebrate rites of Spring 

with blankets and pillows, at both were "for the most part well-man "It was a zoo," one student 
by Barbara Breitenstein 
card distrilbution sites. nered this year." according to Bob commented on the registration
Senior Staff Reporter 
Strikwcrda. a graduate student procedure. "We were lucky," said
The computer course cards for 
two students who had waited
who distributed course cards for
The bi-yearly process of registra­. all Arts and Letters departments, 
the philosophy department. outside Lafortune since S a.m. to
tion began yesterday morning with with the exception of Philosophy, 
Courses which closed first in get Business Ethics cards. "We
over 500 seniors waiting in lines Theology and English, were hand 
Philosophy included Business Eth got the course we wanted. A lot of
outside Lafortune and in the halls ed out in O'Shaugnessey. Students 
people didn't."
ics, Philosophy of Being taught by
ofO'Shaugncsscy to pick up course lined both sides of the hall on the 
Prof. Rice, and Prof. Brennan's
cards for the fall semester. third floor and filled at the Art Registration continues this after
Existentialism course.
Department hallway on the first noon for sophomores and on Mon
Registration opened at Ha.m., as 
"There was a mix-up with the
floor, waiting for offices to open. day and Tuesday for this year's
two campus security ofticcrs open 
Existentialism course.'' Strikwerda
Course cards for Philosophy, freshmen. The course cards for
cd the front doors of LaFortune to 
stated. "There were two sections
Theology and English were distribu English will be available on these
the students outside, some of listed, though only one was offer
ted on the second floor of LaFor days at the English oftice on the
whom had been waiting in freezing ed."
tune due to the large number of less than five minutes. Students third floor of O'Shaugnessey in
weather since midnight. 
students desiring courses in those then waited. some for another hour In Theology. the more popular stead of at Lafortune as for juniorsStudents also began gathering in three departments. The same or more. in long lines which filled courses were Sex and Marriage, and seniors. The Philosophy and O'Shaugncsscy at the same time. procedure is being used for junior the ballroom. and Jung and Theology. while Prof. the Theology departments will "I got here at 12:JO," said Karen registration today. As usual. there were some continue to distribute their cards in 
Werge's Mark Twain and the
Abraham. a senior who was waiting The over 300 seniors who were conflicts in the registration pro the ballroom. 
American Tradition course was the
for a card for Photography I. outside the building when it open cess, most noticeably iln the Col Other students began lining up ed pushed their way inside and to lege of Business Administration, first to till in English, along with "I just can't wait until this is all around 4:.10 or 5 a.m.. eyuippcd the second floor of LaFortune in but in LaFortune, the students Poetry by Prof. Sandeen. over." one student complained. 



server 
-st. mary's college Friday, April 9, 1976 
Of Notre Dame Business College 
Registration a challenge to students 
bJ Barbara Breitenstein these courses in their junior year. 
Senior Staff Reporter Seniors were able to pick the 
lh•gistration proccdurl'S in the left-over cards this morning. 
bu~incss college has brought com­"I'm trying to be fair to every­
plaints fmm many senior business one," Powell said. "It would be 
major~ who pulled elective cards unfair for me to have gone to the 
for the fall semester Wednesday 239 juniors and have given seniors 
night. these cards before thev had a 
·'There wa~ an amazing line,'' chance to get them." 
-Darl·ic Spence, senior business Part of the problem of registra­
major stated, and "Dean Raymond tion was caused by the lack of 
wa~ the only one handing out faculty in the business college, 
cards. I waited for two and a half according to Powell. "We don't 
hour~. Then, before I got up there, ~-. -.,.,....! -y ·~·· -" "--have enough teachers over here to 
..c:Jill ll,) 0t1: ¢H t~<ot N ~ft: "~NTt> AlQ'II:l pnw
the course I wanted was closed." ~. teach the students, and that's the
!loii1 IC4M ~ 1Q
•

she complained. "It was frustra­r crux of the problem," he stated. 
'1' •01..,. ~·)<~ ~:. -~ ~Hit..<J.< .··n 
ting." 
'K...O..in 001\AI N. ~.l'o"\:1> '"" Raymond did not cite understaf­
0 r Dl...,.. Of 
"I was mad," Steve Garagiola, a fing as the possible cause of the 
senior management major, com­course card shortage, as some 
plained. "I was the first senior in students said. He explained their 
line. I waited for two and a half three groups by ID number. Each comes in. I could have easily had a those classes, but I couldn't." discontent on students attempts to 
hours and when they opened the group came an hour apart. Cards thousand volunteers helping me if I The required courses are Busi­only take certain co!Jrses with 
door they said that there were only were distributed by Vincent Ray­wanted, but the only way to bring ness Conditions Analysis, Money certain professors. 
fourteen courses still left. and the mond, dean of Business Adminis­in integrity, fairness and equality and Banking, and Government Business major cards were dis­
finance course I needed was al­tration. for students is to have a centralized Fiscal Policy. All of them must be tributed Wednesday afternoon. 
ready closed out." "These were students seeking point," he stated. taken by juniors. Elective cards were distributed to 
"There were a lot of people in additional business courses beyond Some students complained that "There are 239 new juniors-to­seniors on Wednesday night and 
my same position," Garagiola con­the requirements,'' Raymond ex­three required Finance courses be," said Ray Powell, Accounting next year's juniors last night. 
tinued. "I just left." plained. "I gave out only one card were reserved for first-semester Department chairman, "and every Some juniors anticipated pro­
"A lot of people didn't even per student as relative to limited juniors and therefore were closed new junior must get these three blems with their registration which 
hot her going to pick out cards when availability. There is such a to seniors. Those seniors who did courses. There are 260 to 275 cards was scheduled at the same time as 
they heard ahout it," Mary judgement factor you have to use." not take these courses their junior for these courses and I use 200 to an accounting test. The time to 
0' Meara, a junior agreed. "Every­"There's more to it than just year must take them before they give to new in-sequence juniors." report for cards was pushed back 
thing I wanted was gone." getting cards," Raymond contin­are able to graduate. Powell explained that the other an hour to alleviate this problem. 
Students reporting for these ued, "There's a lot of judgement, "It seemed very unfair,'' Gara­75 cards are saved for out-of-seq­"We've had no trouble tonight,' 
business cards were divided into counseling, and advising that giola complained. I have to take uence seniors who did not take ' Raymond said. 
Of SMC Admissions 
Brooks named new Director 
by Maggie Brydges with a reputation such as Notre completely revamped under Gold­Dame's." en. Several new policies and
Staff Reporter In her four years at Notre Dame, changes were made during her four 

St. Mary's has announced the Brooks has observed a major years as admissions director. 
appointment of Elisa Brooks. cur­change in the attitudes of the "We revised our admissions 
rent assistant director of Admissions enrolling students. "Students are literature, organized an extensive 
at Notre Dame, as director of the more serious now·when they apply recruiting program and conducted 
Office of Admissions. The appoint­to a college. They address them­studies on different parts of the 
ment will become effective June I. selves to specific questions about country where we receive heavy 
''I see the appointment as a the curriculum before they decide enrollment," Golden said, listing 
progression,'' Brooks said. She to spend four years anywhere,'' some of the changes. 
surmised that the smaller volume she stated. Brooks commented on St. Mary's 
of applications at St. Mary's will Brooks will replace Sr. Anna progress sayjng. "They're really 
allow for greater mobility within Mae Golden who has been St. doing a lot over there. There is less 
the department. ''There will be Mary's director of admissions since need to innovate than speak of 
more opportunity to travel at St. 1973. Golden plans to return to those innovations already there.'' Larry Stark, with one of his 
Mary's. Notre Dame doesn't have teaching as a math instructor at Brooks has been assistant direc­four-color silkscreen prints from 
as great a need for recruiting Holy Cross Academy in Kensing­tor of admissions at Notre Dame his "Monuments of the Western 
publicity," Brooks added. ton, Maryland. since September 1972. A graduate World"series. Larry is a visiting 
Brooks cited the need to promote "Admissions at St. Mary's is of Saint Xavier College in Chicago, artist from South Haven, Michi­
St. Mary's as a good women's considerably like Notre Dame as far she received her M.A. from Smith gan, who conducted a silkscreen 
Elisa Brooks, formerly of ND, college independent of Notre as alumni pressure, although not as College in Northampton, Massa­workshop this past week in the 
now at SMC. (Photo by Chris Dame: "It's easy for a smaller intensified,'' Golden explained. chusetts. She has don«::, graduate old fieldhouse. '(Photo by
Smith) school to be overshadowed bv one The admissions department was (continued on page 5) Tom Paulius) 


.. , 

_ -~~bQ;~pus T~d:;u·.··7• 
friday, april 9 
12:1S pm-­12:1S pm-­
2 pm-­
3:30 pm-­3:30pm-­4 30 pm-­
'i 15 pm-­b:3U pm-­
8 & 10 pm-­9:30pm-­12 am-­
12:1s am-­

mass, Ia fortune ballroom 
travelogue series, "india" bv karmea rai, room 278 galvin aud., sponsored by biology dept 
civil rights lectures, "reformulating racial strategies for surival and accommodation" by prof derrick a. bell, jr., cce 
philosophy perspectives, "rationality and communi­ties", by prof richard bernstein, library aud 
lecture, "character manipulation in pl-1," room 115, computer center 
seminar, "chemotherapy of african trypanosom­iasis: problems and prospects:" by prof. arthur c. zahalsky, laboratory for biochemical parasitology, southern illinois univ. at edwardsville, sponsored by national institutes of health .parasitology training center, galvin aud 
mass and dinner, bulla shed 
dinner, an evening in williamsburg-1776, lower level, dining hall, sponsored by community relations council, smc, reservations closed 
"midnight cowboy" sponsored by cultural arts comm., engineering aud, tickets: $1 
film, "bedknobs and broomsticks", "road runner" cartoon "bugs bunny," farley basement, SOc 
album hour, wsnd, 640 am 
nocturne night flight, the best in progressive rock, 1azz and blues, "george the friendly mainstream", "The best in jazz just for you, wsnd, 88.9 fm 
saturday, april 10 
. am-­
1:30pm-­1:30 pm-­
7, 9 1S & 
11:30 pm-­8 pm-­
8 pm-­
12 am-­12:1S am-­

sale, glass greenhouse, benefit sale of glassware and plants, sponsored by south bend smc alumnae, refreshments and door prizes, o'laughlin foyer, admrssron $1 general; SOc students 
rugby, n.d. vs. northern illinois, stephan field 
farley picnic, all farley residents welcome, st. mary's lake, near grotto 
film, "the sting" sponsored by student union engineering aud., tickets: $1 ' 
festival, international student festival, washington hall 
variety show, "broadway review", sponsored by speech and drama dept. o'laughlin aud 
album hour, wsnd 640 am 
nocturne night flight, the best in progressive rock, }~z and blues, tonight's host: jorge lopez, wsnd 88.9 
sunday, april11 
2 pm-­2 pm-­
2:30 ;.>m-­
4:30pm-­
6:30pm-­7, 9:1S & 
11:30 pm-­8 pm-­
8:1S pm-­
12:00 am-­
12:15 am-­

recital, student piano recital, sponsored by ladies of 
n.d. music interest group, library aud 
variety show, "broadway review", sponsored by speech and drama dept. o'laughlin aud 
lecture "sexual mythology in america:1775-187S" by sr. madonna kolbenshlag, n.d., cosponsored by n.d., forever learning institute and south bend panel of american women with grant from indiana 
committee for the humanities, cce 
vespers, concert, notre dame chapel billings: "the passion of our lord," church 
an evening in williamsburgh-1776, dining hall, smc 
choir sings sacred heart 
lower level, 

film, "the sting," sponsored by student union, engineering aud., tickets: $1 
vespers,  concert,  notre  dame  chapel  choir  sings  
billings:  "the passion of  our  lord",  sacred  heart  
church  

service, lenten choral service, sacred heart church album hour, wsnd 640 am nocturne night flight, the best in progressive rock, 
1azz and blues, tonight's host: dave szymanski, wsnd 
88.9 fm 

~*The Observer 

Night Editor: Dan Sanchez. Assistant Night Editor: Chris Smith. 
Layout Staff: Debbie Dahrling, Mary Janca, Frank Kebe and ·Joe·Bauer'. • .' · · · · • • · · 
Day Editor: Kathy McEntee 
Copy Reader: Jack D'Aurora. Editorial Page: I im Eder Sports Page: Ray O'Brien and 
Debbie Dahrling 
Night Controllers: Martha Fanning and Zenon Bidzinski 



Students against morning exams; chairmen fear serious problems 
by Phil Cackley Senior Staff Reporter 
Serious problems will be created by a new exam policy. according to various department chairmen. and students are generally disenchant­ed with the prospect of having to take departmental examinations at 8 in the morning. This was revealed yesterday in reactions of department chairmen and students to an administrative 
Republican Clubs 
elect new officers 
The Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Republican Clubs both held elections for new officers Wednesday night. 
For Notre Dame, Kevin Richard­son was elected chairman; Chad Tiedmann, vice-chairmarl'; Hank Carroll. secretary; Bill Soules, tre­asurer; and Pat Pouler. parliamen­tarian. Richardson announced that he hoped to have a powerful influence on Notre Dame opinion by working with the 56 member club to distribute flyers. make personal contacts. and campaign for candidates. 
Saint  Mary's,  a  smaller  club.  
elected  three  officers;  Elizabeth  
Cutter.  chairman.  Colleen  Roth­ 

fuss, vice-chairman, and Laura Prestine, treasurer. The two clubs plan to continue the tradition of close cooperation on all activities. 
For further information call Leo Buchiguani, ),)76. 
Senior Formal tix 
on sale April 20 
The class of '76 Senior Formal. "As Time Goes By," will be held on Monday, May 10, at the Roseland Ramada Inn. ~ 6:30 coctail hour preceded the 
"Se steak dinner at 7:30. 
rwards, is a 9:30 dance with ,,JUsic supplied by the Don Crone Band. A cash bar will be on-hand until 2 am. Dress is semi-formal with tuxedos optional. 
Tickets will go on sale Apr. 20-May S. Prices per couple are 
$26.50for the dinner and dance, and $9.00 for the dance alone. Dance favors of 12 oz. engraved brandy snifters are included in this price. Also, a lO percent discount on flowers is being offered by Ehnin­ger's Florists (232-7976) for orders 
before May 4. 
The Senior class officers and dance committee thank all those who participated in the poll and strongly seek the support of the entire senior class to insure a successful event. 
For further information call Jim Landsberg (1216) or Rich Johnson (8392). 
ERRATUM 
In yesterday's Action Express, it was stated that bicycle repairs are not done on campus. This was over looking Timonthy Leery's Bike hospital, located at 462 Morrissey Manor. Tim Ellison is the proprie­tor (3683), offering good work at reasonalbe rates for your cycle. 
ERRATUM 
One Student Union appointment was missing from the story in yesterday's Observer. Ken Ricci. Student Union director, appointed Walt Ling Student Union associate director Wednesday. All Student Union positions are now filled. 
The Observer is published tVtonday through Friday a1d .....eekly during the sumner session, except during the exam; a1d vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students Of the Univ. ot Notre Darre Cl'ld St. Nlaly's College. Subsa'iptions may be purchased for $18 ($10 per semester) fro-n The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. .5ea)nd Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN ~SS6. 
policy released Monday scheduling departmental examinations at 8 
a.m. on Tuesday and Thursday mornings, rather than in the even­ing. 
The policy applies. effective next semester, to multi-sectional cour­ses and places a time limit of 65 minutes on exams. Freshmen and sophomores, who take the greatest number of basic, multi-sectional courses. will be most affected by the new rule. 
Dr. Warren Wong. chairman of the mathematics department, said the policy would "cause severe difficulties of a logistical nature." for his department. He explained the the entire freshman class of 1600 students is required to take two semesters of math and simply finding enough rooms for exams would be a problem. 
"Exams tend to bunch up at certain times in the semester and if only two mornings arc available instead of four evenings. we will have difficulties finding enough rooms and teachers for supervising exams," Wong said. 
He also pointed out that it will be necessary to avoid conflicts with other departments. such as phy­sics. which will be scheduling exams at the same time. 
There is a good possibility the Accountancy Department will eli­minate departmental examinations as a result of the new policy, according to Chairman Dr. Ray Powell. 
"I doubt that we will utilize departmental exams come Septem­ber." Powell said. In-class tests. will be ven instead, maril 
affecting about 500 sophomores enrolled in the Accountancy 221­222 course, he explained. 
Powell said the normal length of an accountancy exam in two hours. With exam time being restricted to 65 minutes, ''we can use the time for exams better in class.'· he stated. 
The physics department will be ".drastically affected." according to Chairman Dr. Walter Miller. who explained that because of the new policy at least SO percent more exams will be needed to test the same amount of material covered in the course. 
Four 90 minute exams per se­mester arc presently given to 500-600 students. Miller said an increase in the number of tests would be required if there is a time limit of 65 minutes. 
Dr. Konrad Schaum. chairman of 
modern languages. said his de­
partment hold~ evening exams as 
an emergency measure only. and 
there would be no major change 
required next semester. 
"It's ba~ica\ly a good adminis­
trative decision reserving a period 
of time during the week for 
exams." Schaum said. "At pre­
sent it b difticult to free these 
hours for testing." he noted. 
Fr. Joseph Walter. chairman of 
preprofessional studies. noted 
switching tests to the morning 
would "free every evening for 
study." He said students would do 
better taking a test early in the 
morning. when they were rested. 

THE RUDYARD KIPLING EPIC!I lbB manWhowould BB KlnL_NOW W DAY 7 :00·9 :30-SAT.SUN.1 :45-4:10-6  
Special Family Adults Sat& Sun Low$1.50 SameBorg in Matinees! Prices Sat·Sun 'till Spm Child $l Either Show Box Office 1pm  
Starts FridayII Special Fri-Sat Midnite Shows JO~ COCK~R U:OH «W'SSElUL MADDOGS&.. Reduced Price ! ! ENGLISHMEN  

····················~··························· 
: ~ ~ ~· 
~ ,~.· ~0 q;~: rL.-' ,.,o' ~q;~ 
~-..,. ~ ~11
0 -<:-0 q; ~ ~~ #(;< 
.. ~ 00 ~0 ~ 'Q~ "rei 
~ 0~ ~ 
• 
~ ~· 
~~ ~q; ~~·# 
.~ ~q,
: .....o


: ~.. 
:~~ Last day: Thursday Aprill5 ! Questions: call 3557 





To commemorate national "Food Day," the ND World Hunger Coalition held an open air food bazaar on the South Quad. The bazaar I 
was an exercise in awareness of the variety of foods eaten throughout the world. {Photo by Tom Paulius) 
Quinlivan's Mass closes second campus Food Day 
In Mnurccn Flvnn ·cnrnpus Edit~r 

Fr. Franci., ()uinlivan. director of 
the Peace and Ju... tiLT Commission. 
la'>t night called for Chri~tians to 
recognitL' Christ·~ presence on 
earth in the poor. Quinlivan's 
Ma'o!'> in SaL-red IIcari brought to a 
L'lo~L' 1he second campus "Food 
Da~·." <oponsored by the Notre 
Dame !Iunger Coalition and In 
I'll{(). 
In hi., lwmilv. ()uinlivan addres 
M'd hirmclf to ihc purpose of Food 
Day: to enlighten students and 
faeult.v concerning hunger in the 
world. The celebrant noted that 
L'ititl'n'> nf more pro~pl'rous nations 
tend to take their prospcrit~· for 
granted. 
"We "" Amcrcan'>. prc-~uppo!->t' 
that our abundant food and matn 
ial good~ mmt· from our good.·· 
()uinlivan .,.tid. "hut only through 
the poor doe., ~alvation nHllL' to 
U'o. 
()uinlivan L'ommL·nll'd on lhL' 
).!O'o(ll'l rl'<llling. till' ~tor~· of the 
poor man L11anl'o who die., of 
'olan·ation at the g:tlc!-> of the rich 
nwn·., hmi'oL'. He pointl'd out that 
the rich nwn, condemned for his 
negll'rt of hi., poorer brother, 
fl'arcd I h;tt hi'> hrothl'r<o left on 
earth might 'ohare hi!-> ~in and fate. 
Commending thl' work of the 
llungl'r Coalition. ()uinlivan said 
that to have worked with them was 
Nominations for 
SMC elections 
Nominations opened yesterday 
for class. dorm. and student as­
Sl'mbly officers at St. Marv's, 
according to Election Commission­
er Minclv Montesi. 
Til'ket.s and platforms arc due by 
Wt•dne~day, April 14. The candi­
datl·~ may campaign from April 20 
until April 27 with the primary 
being held on Wed.. April 28. If 
necessary. a runoff will be on April 
30. 
"lnPLRGwill also hold elections 
on Apri~ 28," stated Debbie Hale, 
prcsicknt of St. Mary's chapter. 
The lnPIRGplatforms are due by 
April U. "Candidates will be 
asked to state any previous expcr­
it•ncc they have had with lnPIRG. 
and whai they plan to do with Ini'IRG in the future." noted Hale. 
"Onl'l' all the platforms have 
been submitted. they will be con­
densed and passed io the student 
body," aLTording to Hale. "The 
condensed platforms will probably 
come out on April 20 to give the 
~tudcnt11 time to discuss them," 
'>he added. 
Hale concluded by saying that 
the offices are open to anyone who 
wants to run. 
to see God's salvation in students 
and the poverty-stricken alike. He 
petitioned prayers for the unwant 
ed. the hungry and those consider 
ed u~l'lcss. 
"I hope." he added. "the poor 
ran lwlp our nation lind its soul." 
Earlin in the day. the Hunger Coaltion and lnPIRG sponsored a food booth on the South Quad. whirh featured information on the hunger problem. proper nutrition and food supplements. In the afternoon members of the ND-SMC comnnmity participated in a semi nar and discussion involving stu­dcnh and facutlv who have lived in third-world countries. 
A meal of rice and tea was served at dinner time in the Knights .of Columhu~ building. Members of the Notre Dame faculty participat­ed in a panel disn1ssion later in the evinging L'onccrning global inc­qualit~· in terms of rc~ourscs and opportunitil'!->. 
Maritain's home donated to ND 
The Princeton, N.J. rcsidt•nce of the late .Jacques Maritain, an internationally known philosopher who died in 197J, has been given to Notre Dame. where Maritain was a visiting profc!>sor several times between 19.14 and the late 1950's. 
The University will maintaiP the residence for its-scholars on study leave at Princeton. · 
Horn in Paris in 1882, Maritain converted to Catholicism in 1905 and spent a lifetime elucidating the thought of the 13th Century Domin­ican. Thomas Aquinas. 
In 1958. Notre Dame established a Jacques Maritain Center, located in the University's Memorial Li­brary, under the direction of Dr. Joseph W. Evans, associate profes­sor of philosophy. The Center serves as a clearinghouse for research and publications of Mari­tain's work. 
HAPPINESS IS A JOB 

Our high quality re­sume can help you find that job. Send for our free resume form­-it might make you happy. 
Print, etc., P.O. Box 606 Bennington, Vt., 05201 
Plea.. aend me rour retume form 
Name ........................... . 
Acldreu ......................... . 
CllytStatetZip ................... . 
Sophomore class elections invalid 
Sophomore class election results 
were invalidated last night because 
one hall closed its ballot box 
one-half hour early. according to 
Augie Grace, senior class presi­
dent. Another election is scheduled 
for next Tuesday. 
Grace explained that because the 
election was very close he and the 
committee did ·not feel that the 
results l'Ould be accepted. The tally 
was so close that the half hour of 
voting could have an effect on the 
results. he said. 
"We believe that this incident is 
unfortunate." said Grace. "but we 
felt that the only fair thing for both 
candidates involved was to run 
another election." 
Voting in the second election will be held,ncxt Tuesday in the halls from II:JOp.m. to I p.m. and from S p.m. to 6:30 p.m. 
Off Campus students can vote at 
the Student Activities Office from I 
p.m. to 5 p.m. 
,......................................~ 
• NOW OPEN • 
:KELLEY'S SPORTLAND: 
• U·S· 31 NILES •
......................................................, 
...........PASs·iOi'fSUNDAv····......... 

The Beginning of Holy Week 
5:15 p.m. Saturday 
9:15 a.m. Sunday 
10:15 a.m. Sunday
• 

12:15 p.m. Sunday 
Evensong this Sunday will be in Lady Chapel at : Both 4:30p.m. and 8:15p.m. Rev. Eugene F. : Gorski. C. S.C. will be the celebrant. The setting : will be that of the Passion by William Billings. ! 
················~···~·················································= 
Friday, April 9, 1976 
the observer 

Bookstore tourney featured 
An Tostal to be 'best in history' 
by Pat Cuneo Senior Staff Reporter 
In Gaelic the definition of An Tostal is "spring festival" but it means much more to the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community. 
An Tostal weekend of April 22-24 is swiftly approaching, and more elaborate and innovative events will make it the best An Tostal in its 
history,  according  to  Don  Opal,  
director of internal  affairs.  
Opal  and  his  assistant  Craig  

Moore perform in a coordinating capacity for the Irish fling and are very pleased with this year's An Tostal program. 
With events ranging from the bookstore basketball tourney to "Recess 176," the weekend will be culminated by the Irish Wake on Saturday night. 
"The basketball tournament, which began Wednesday on the Stepan and bookstore basketball courts, is typical of An Tostal's appeal to students," cited Opal. A total of 256 teams entered the games with another 46 teams on the waiting list. 
The An Tostal finals will be held Thursday, April 22 on opening night and a crowd of over 3,000 is expected to sit in on the champi01 ­ship game. 
The An Tostal committee will distribute an information booklet explaining all aspects and schedul­ing of events just prior to Easter break. The weekend will officially begin on the afternoon of April 22 with an "Irish Luncheon in the 
North and South Dining Hall. 
A new event this year will be the 
An Tostal Assassination Service. 
During the three day festival a 
trained group of assassinettes will 
be for hire to throw a pie into the 
face of any targeted person any­
where on the quads or in the dorms 
at anytime day or night. 
All of the pies are freshly baked 
with cream pies priced at $7 and 
bannana cream specials for $13. A 
major percentage of the profit goes 
to charity and Opal added, "We 
hope that students will collaborate 
on the cost of the pies to have their 
victims zoned. Unfortunately, the 
administration and all university 
employees are exempt." 
Thursday's opening-day features 
also include a rock concert staged 
in front of the North Dining Hall at 
8 p.m. 
Friday's key events will be a 
giant sack race, egg toss and car 
stuffing during the day with Recess 
176 scheduled Friday evening. The 
recess is highlighted by a sandbox, 
tricycle races, baby powder fights 
and other big-child fantasies ac­
cording to Opal. It will also be 
catered by Farrell's Ice Cream 
Parlor again this year. 
The Decathalon and road rally begin Saturday's events followed by the "Irish Picnic" on the North Quad Saturday afternoon. 
The picnic will be open to students of the north and south quads and St. Mary's. In addition, on Friday 1,500 co-ex tickets will be provided on the Notre Dame cam­pus for those interested in the St. Mary's bar be cuethat evening. 
Mud volleyball will begin next week in front of Planner Hall and the finals for that event will also be held Saturday of An Tostal week­end. 
Chariot races and the mud 

NEW CONCEPT In hairstyling for Men UX7ATED on our lower lt•vel with 11.' own privatA.• enl.nln<.,. way. COM PLETt: I'IU\'AC\' In our Individual styling units. sn• con'EE by th<· fln•pla<·•· tn a n•lax<•d 

atmosphrno. FAST SER\'J('J.; for 1'8n>frt'e ruts and blow styles. W}; n:ATURJ•: RK pmducts.  
MANICURES for men  $4  PRECISION CUTS  $5  
HAIRCUTS  $4  BLOW STYLING  $4.50  
PERMANENT WAVING by NATURAL MAN $1 .00 OFF A PRECISION CUT WITH BLOW  $25  

STYLING WITH YOUR NO OR SMC 10. 


s.£Jl;~Aq[!lftlt ~ r; :~ '0. 
Tues., Wed.. Sot. 8:30-5:30. 
Thurs. & Fri. 8:30 -8:30 
PHONE 277 -1691 
Rev. Joseph Carey, C.S.C. Rev. Charles Faso, O.F.M. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, 
C.S.C. (this liturgy will : begin with a Palm Sunday : Procession at the grotto.) Rev. William Toohey,C.S.c.: 
tug-of-war as well will be held on Saturday afternoon. 
Finally, the Irish Wake will be held Saturday night at the South Bend Armory which will be suitably decorated for the event. The $3 flat rate includes beer plus wine and cheese. 
"One of the greatest features of the Wake is the band "Eden Rock" which played on campus last year at the North Dining Hall Dance," said Opal. "And weather per­mitting, a beer garden will be set up adjacent to the Armory enabling people to mingle both inside and outside. 
Students 8rian Dowe and Steve Callahan, chairman of the mobiliza· tion committee believe all operation!> arc go for An Tostal weeh•nd. 
The two Planner residents arc r~sponsible for the physical Sl'l-up of each event and have assured the 
committee that  all phases  of the  
program date.  have  run  smoothly  ·  to  

All major events will be held again this year on An Tostal Field across Juniper Rd. 
'Ugly' contest to benefit charity 
The annual "Ugly Man" Contest to lind the "ugliest" man or woman on campus. is sclll'dulcd to take place An Tostal wel'kend. April 22-24. Participants can vote for any person as often as they wish. with one penny buying one vote. The winner of the contest will receive an engraved trophy and dinner for two. The contest is sponsored by the 
N.D. Sigma Phi Chapter of Alpha Phi Omega. a national service fraternity. All proceeds will go to St. Marita's Primary Day Sc!wo1 for underprivileged children. 
THE 

lknigf)ts 
.-"'. 
the observer 

0-C housing director warns 





Beware of misleading off-campus housing ads 
by Jim Commyn Staff Reporter 

Student Director of Off-Campus Housing Darlene Palma cautioned students. intending to move off­campus next year, to be wary of advertisements for houses posted in the Huddle, and listed in The South Bend Tribune, and Obser· ver. "Just because these homes have the words 'excellent' or 'very good' within the ad. it cannot be assumed that the University Off­Campus Housing Office has inspec­ted the house and given it this recommendation." Palma said. "Some of the homes haven't been inspected and many times the ads are placed by the landlords them­selves without even consulting our office.·· 
·'If our office has no information about certain houses that students rent. and problems come up in the fall. both the student and our office are at a disadvantage in solving them," Palma continued. She sug­gested that students interested in moving off-campus check with the lists of off-campus places available before making their final selection. "The lists are continually being revised and corrected." Palma stated. "Students could also find out some of the criteria and the University uses when they inspect houses should they choose a place not on our lists." 
Copies of the lists containing all off-campus residences are avail­able to all students. These lists have been posted in the corridor outside the Off-Campus Housing Office. 311 Administration Build-
Palma also warned students to study all the parts of a prospective lease before signing it. "Students can make big mistakes if they are t:1e least bit unsure what they are signing," she stated. Palma sug-
Chairmen react to policy; predict pressure increase 
(continued from page 2) 
rather than going through a full day of classes first. 
Wong. Powell and Miller all stated that pressure on students would increase because of the 65 minute restriction for exams. 
Miller said physics tests are designed to be finished by a "good student" in 60 minutes. but an extra half-hour is added so time isn't too much of a pressure factor. "I think it will be a problem under the new policy." Miller stated. 
Accountancy tests are presently given over a "leisurely two hour" pcrios. according to Powell. There will be more pressure on students, he noted. because of the extensive amount of material covered in the course and the shortened amount of testing time available. "Sopho­mores are going to look more frazzled next year." he siad. 
Wong siud math students will be affected slightly. because most departmentals arc presently given over a 75-minute period, but are designed so a good student can finbh in an hour. 
Dr. Peter Grande. assistant dean of the Freshman Ycar of Studies, agreed with the ideu of the policy, which he said is to ·'free up evenings for students.·· although he i5. aware that the preference of both the departments and the students is for evening exams. 
·'There has to be a certain disposition in a student for him to participate in campus activities," Grande noted. and then said the policy is intended to make possible 
Next Senior class 
plans USC trip 

The senior class will go to Los Angeles, California for their class . trip next year. according to class president Bob Tully. 
The trip will coincide with Thanksgiving break and the South­ern California game next year. The class will depart from the Michiana Regional Airport in South Bend on Wednesday afternoon, Nov. 24 and bourd three United Airlines'DC-8's There are 480 seats available, with 400 allotted for Notre Dame and 80 for St. Mary's. The planes will feature an open bar. 
Included in the trip package are a ticket to the Southern Cal game and accommodations for 5 days and 4 nights at the Holiday Inn in Holly­wood. Students who are 21 will also have use of a rent-a-car for four days with unlimited mileage. Tully also noted that the class is also planning a couple of parties for the trip. 
The total cost of the trip is 
approximately $253, however, it 
may possibly increase. Although 
the actual dates will not be avail­
able until next week, a $50 non-re­
fundable deposit will probably be 
cpllect~d within the n~xt 3 wee~~· 
• , ,J .• · • .I 1. • ,f J I J I I I f I f' 

or even stimulate this participation. 
He commented that the university is a total experience and shouldn't just be studying. 
An informal poll of students indicated widespread displeasure with the new policy. A few students said they like the idea of taking exams early in the morning so they don't have to worry about a test all day. Another reason was they worked better in the morning. 
Most students. however, said the policy would not help them. "After taking a morning exam. I' taking a morning exam, I'd be depressed all day," one student complained. 
Many protests were directed at the reasons for the policy given by Fr. James Burtchaell on Wednes­day night. He said the policy was intended to relieve pressure on freshmen and sophomores who sometimes have to wait until their junior year to attend their first concert or lecture. 
gested that students consult copies of University-approved leases available in the office for ideas on sections to be included as well as excluded. 
In an article published in the Observer last semester, former director of off-campus housing Fr. Thomas Tallarida stated. "some off-campus students had signed leases that had certain exculpatory clauses. Clauses of this type ab­solve the owner of guilt in certain matters, specifically those invol­ving forms of negligence. As a result, an inordinate amount of responsibility is placed on the 
student  tenant  when  the  weight  
truly  belongs  on  the  owner,"  
Tallarida said.  
Palma  also  mentioned  some  

other services that the Off-Campus 
Student paper wins first prize 
Notre Dame student Tim Walsh, of 1022 E. Colfax, recently cap­tured first place in the Region VI American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) conference in Evansville, Ind. 
Walsh's award winning paper, "The Shear Rate of Red Blood Cells," enables him to move on to the winter conference national competition later this year. 
Notre Dame's student chapter of ASME also secured three other awards at the competition includ­ing the greatest participation of any university in the six-state regional area. 
Walsh's project is sponsored by heart valve research where he has been working under the direction of Dr. John Lloyd, Department of Aerospace Mechanical Engineer­ing. 
Other students who competed in the competition included Fmnk Migliarese with his paper "The Effect of Relative Humidity and Fabric Structure on Pressure Drop and Fabric Filtra­tion" and Mike McCormick with his composition "Design Review of a Heati Pad." 


t f. "' " t.' " . ., ~·,. "" # ._ ~ I> "' • ,. ., • I> ., ' ,. 'II ' ., II ,. '" • " , " • • • • · 
Office has initiated. "Currently we are trying to compile some type of listing of students who are in need of roommates off-campus,'' Palma said. "Hopefully, we will be able to match up some people with like interests or majors." 
Palma added that another list is being compiled to include those students' names who signed 12­month leases with their landlords and are now looking for someone to sublet during the summer. "Those seeking off-campus housing during the summer might also be interes­ted in this list," Palma noted. 
Palma also advised those stu­dents who already know they will be moving off-campus to fill out change-of-address forms in the Off-Campus Office or with Student Affairs. "By filling out these forms now, off-campus students will be assured of getting the necessary University mail early in the semes­ter and on time," Palma said. 
In conclusion, Palma reminded students who wish to remain on-campus during the 1976-1977 school year to return their housing contracts to Student Affairs by next Thursday, April 15. Palma also suggested that students moving off-campus return their cards to Student Affairs as well, indicating on the contract that they will be living off-campus next yeiu. "This will aid the University and the Off-Campus Office in compiling important information prior to the end of the semester." Palma stated. "It will also help our office keep its lists more accurate and current.'' 


~···················· 
+ SMC JUNIORS + : -READ BELOW FOR A : + GOOD DEAL! + : ON TUESDAY, APRIL 13, : 
:you and your guests are invited to skate: +at the ACC from 9:15-10:15 o for $.75 + : then, save your skating ticket, and from: 
• 10:30-12:30 redeem it for a free beer + : at the Library on ND Avenue!! + 
: SPONSORED BY THE SMC : : JUNIOR CLASS OFFICERS 
i 

+ QUESTIONS??? CALL CINDY, 4679 + 
: IT'S A BARGAIN!!! : 
~.................... 
'f++~T~~~...TT..........,."''"..."''" 
/1 

NOW OFFERING 10 & 15% DISCOUNTS ON CASES OF WINE/LIQUOR. 
HOURS: MON-SAT 9:30-MIDNIGHT 

FREE DELIVERY

: SPE<.IALLY
:TO THE (with $15.00 minimum purchase.) ie ND·SMC :COMMUNITY PHONE: 259-0261 ~ 
"'•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••+••••• 
• +++++++++++++~<~~••~~-~.. • 
: ~ 
Budweiser® 

• ; 
'J) 

• ;..:..J 
·~ ~ eagleJ:I\J\ .+::3 '.-.) ~oritf''" 
.~ ® 100 CENTER COMPLEX 
.~
•.$ 

any regularOFF priced item

• ·~ ;:1 
with this ad.

+co BUSCH® MICHBLOB~ A&Eagle 

~ • • ' I ' I' I ' f 
I

c~., . ".,."' • '9 •• ""• ,. , ... ' " .. "' "' '· "J : ., .• 
,I 
Friday, April 9, 1976 
tbe observer 





St. Mary's to obtain favorable accreditation 
by Pat Payne Staff Reporter  language and sociology were parti­cularly strong. Humanistic Studies was described as an excellent interdisciplinary area.  major goals, resources and equip­ment, the Board of Regents and administrative and organizational policies were also included. In  They consider themselves as part of a larger educational enterprise including the University of Notre Dame."  The library was singled out as having a very excellent collection of books. The building, however, was termed "highly inadequate.'·  
"The NCA accredidation team was tremendously impressed with St. Mary's," said Dr. William A. Hickey, vice-president for acade­mic affairs, in regard to the recent North Central Aswciation's (NCA) evaluation of St. Mary's. The primary purpose of the evaluation, which took place March 24-26, was "to look at all aspects of the institutions," said Hickey. He added that in light of the college's resources, the team will consider whether or not the college is doing the job it thought was being done. NC' A is one of the nation-wide firms set up by the colleges and universitill's. The NC'A determines if an institution is fulfilling its role to itsl'lf and the student body. NC'A visits arc held every ten years. The NC'A main offices selects a team of people from geographical area of the school to be cvalauted to perform the evaluation. The school ha'> no part in the team selection prOL'ess. Hickey noted that people arc rhosen "who have diverse interests  In addition, psychology was re­ported as developing a well-bal­anced curriculum, and the nursing program was stated as being off to a good start. Hickey emphasized that the gen­eral tenor of the report was positive, calling the college "a good, quality institution, a viable one which is doing the kind of educational job it claims it's doing.' In terms of faculty, Hickey observed, "The team was particu­larly impressed with the quality of the faculty and their commitment to the institution." Before the team arrived at St. Mary's a self-study document was prepared covering all areas of the college. Dr. Donald Horning, chairman of the NC'A steering committeed, headed the self-study team made up of several department chairmen members of the Board of Regents, certain administrative personnel and fan1ltv members. The team was appointed. in the fall of 1974, and  addition there was a section stating certain strengths and weaknesses as the college perceived them. "The team was most impressed with the college self-study," noted Hickey. "They stated that they had not seen one as thorough as was done by St. Mary's" At the end of the visit, an exit interview was conducted. The interview was comprised of five major area: physical resources, financial resources, faculty and students, governance and acade­mic programs. It was attended by the NCA members as well as Dr. John Duggan, president of St. It's purpose. stated Hickey wasMary's and Hickey."to highlight major recommenda­tions which would eventually form a part of the written report." Hickey continued. ''If a major observation was interpreted as faulty and we could demonstrate it was an error, it woul be corrected at this time. However, he said,"All the major observations are ac~reteta~~~~~~~~· not impressed  The team commended the co-In regard to the new recreational exchange program between St. center and the proposed library, Mary's and Notre Dame. They the team was, according to Hickey, stressed that this program is "very "delighted to see the college taking good and certainly should be action on these facilities." continued and strengthened." The Hickey commented that Duggan report praised the area of drama and is planning to publish the com-theater, commending Notre Dame pleted report and have it made and St. Mary's for being able to available for anyone to read. The have a single department, utilizing entire report will be ready in six to the recources and talents of both eight weeks. student bodies. "There ls no doubt in our minds Also mentioned in the report was that the report will make very how impressive the physical re-positive statements about St. sources are. Hickey declared, Mary's, but we will seriously look "One can't help but be impressed at areas of concern," Hickey with the facilities." concluded. :• ···r··I·M····M·····p··A···a·"r·.·y·••·s··ra·~·E······: :. OPEN ·. MQN _SAT 9am _ ll pm :. • ,.. • : .:>UN DAY 12noon -11pm : • COlD BEER W • : , INE, LIQUOR, : •. GORMET FOODS .• :3114 S. 11 St. NILES, MICHIGAN i  

and different areas of expertise." completed the document in Janu­with the size of endowments, : "BIGGEST LITTLE : 
ary. !976.
"Three days was an adequate acording to Hickey. "They recom-: LIOUQR STOR~ JN MTr.J.lTf'! Jl N" : amount of time for the visit." said A format was developed for each mended a clear need for the college •••••••'"f•••••••••••••~.~~eea\Ye"'l.tH&&\~•••••• 
to develop a more complex pro-.
Hickey. "if given adequate infor­department and all department mation. the team could do a lot." chairman were asked to conduct gram to increase the size of 
7l 

He added. that most faculty mem­their own self-study. The steering endowments to improve faculty • • M · h salaries anct keep up the facilities," ,.....,..........~.: : . an m t e City:
bers were visited and several committee then sumarized all the 1 evaluators sat in on classes during findings. he explained. Confronting the American Dream
Hickey stressed, "The college is
the accredidation process. 
The completed self-study was 
Commenting on the preliminary presented to the NCA team two making real efforts at improving John Voight & Dustt'n Hoffman
faculty salaries.''results. Hicke)' remarked, "In months prior to their visit. It 
every case the department stren­included sections on St. Mary's The report noted that the student MIDNIGHT COWBOY
body is a tremendous asset to the
gths far outweighed their weak­
history, information on the college college. It stated, "They are brightnesses.'' since its last accredidation, and 
articulate students who are con-directed bu John Schlesinger
The report said that the depart­governance system. An anaysis of neeted to St. Mary's and its ':1 ments of science, English. foreign every department program and its 
independence as an institution. ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM According to DuComb 8 & lOpm ADM. $1oo 
Lower drinking age may pass 

L~~kin~ F~r Us?
by Matt Kane was the election year. "Everyone "it's still not enough." DuComb 
Staff Reporter gets a little dry in the mouth "but it's a first step."State Rep. Robert DuC'omb (R) around election time." DuComb Ducomb supported a bill creatingtold a group of young Republil'ans remarked. "A legislator is cautious an Indiana student loan fund, but Wl•dncsday night that the 18-year­when it comes to voting on a bill 
the bill failed to pass. ''The bill old drinking bill stands a good that might be damaging to him in failed because of high default rate 
rhancc of passing the Indiana his community." 
of federal loans to students,'' he lcgi'>laturc next session. DuC'omb advised students who explained. The Indiana loans would Till' bill failed to come to a vote reside in Indiana to persuade their 
be modeled after the federal loans. 
la!->t scs'>ion bcl·ausc of insufficient representatives to support the bill. In environmental protection, Du­.,upport. "We did not put it up for a Asked if University drinking C'omb cited Indiana as one of the vote, .. said co-sponsor DuC'omb. regulations have an effect upon 
leading states. "hl'L·au...c it might have hurt its legislators, DuC'omb stated: "The rhanccs for next year." University has to decide the exent OuC'omb thought that the bill of its liability. Rules they make Brooks to head 
might have been supported by don't affect our deliberations." undcl'lared legislators. But. ac­If the bill does pass next year, cording to DuC'omb. the sponsors DuComb thinks Governor Otis SMC admissions 
did not want to risk hurting Bowen will sign it: "Governor 
(continued from page 1)
legislators who could lose in the Bowen. who was speaker of the upcoming elections because of the House will follow the legislature on work in Middlebury College and emotional issue of lowering the moral issues like this." Notre Dame. 
drinking ge. Also the bill "may DuComb also reported on legis­A resident of South Bend. Brooks have passed in the House" without lation dealing with education and is a member of the National "enouth time for the Senate to pass the environment. "In this session, Association of College Admissions it." we tried to deal with the problem of Counselors, the Indiana Associa­
DuC'omb cited some of the keeping private universities and tion of College Registrars and obstacles the bill faced last session. colleges solvent." He cited the Admissions Officer and the Nation­"The student lobbyists did not great difference in tuition between al Education Association. She is realize that prior to this year 20 to private and public schools. To also a former teacher at the ~·······················~··········· 25 members of the House have assist the private school student, American School and the Francis 
! COLLEGE EDUCATION : 
been prohibitionists. They will the legislature increased funds for W. Parker School, both in Chicago. oppose any bill that will give a the Inidana freedom of choice She is the author of Introduction to * * person access to a drink." The grants. Students receiving the Reading, and co-author of Persona­~ corner of Logan and Jefferson ~ 
major obstacle to the drinking bill grant attend any colic e in Indiana. lity for Business Training. 
!* FINEST !* ! 24 HOUR RESTAURANT ! ~ IN MICHIANA ! 
: * catering to : * : ND-SMC LATE NIGHT NEEDS ! * * 
: FEATURING COLLEGIATE SPECIAL · : * "JACK OMELET" * 
* •
* *
* Daily Lunch Special Hamburgers * 
* * -:•• .....:$·:.aREAKf.:~ST..SERVED.~ANYTIME : 
__________ !t-.........4-...JI-Jf_..JI.~······················ 




P.O.BoxQ 
Because the University has taken
Registration Arrogant
such action against Mr. Cannon, 
this could lead to repercussions at 
his trial, not to mention his future.

Blues Absurdity 
Dear Editur: The outstanding feature of the Dear Editor: American judicial system is the Of course the quote attributed to OnL-c again Pre-Registration principle that an individual is Fr. Hesburgh in the March 30th 
time rolls around and the J hour innocent until proven guilty. Since Observer could have been taken 
line~ in the Bu~incss Buiding begin Mr. Cannon has not yet been tried, out of context, but to say that 
to form. .1 am a Senior-to-be and I we assume he is innocent. The "there arc onlv two great Catholic 
waited paliL·nth· in line for 2-and-a­Dean of Students may argue that Universities in the world today 
(arc) Louvain and Notre Dame" is
half hour~ to ~ct Ill\' third choice suspension does not imply a verdict 
Bu~inc~" l'lcctiYe. Adminis­or but an absurdity and arrogance and an
.The of innocent guilty. rather 
insult to hundreds of world-wide
tration a!>h u~ to take courses out constitutes a "holding action" until 
orthodox Catholic universities in 

Chocolate Poverty
of nlllr major vet the Business that time when the court does reach 
the world---no matter what their
Colicgc gi\c~ a p.erson little choice. its decision. However. we point out 
. size in acrc11ge and enrollment!
EYcn to get your desired required that trial may not occur until three 
Rev Edmund J. Murra_y CSC 
elective is a chore. months from this date. The 
Professor Emeritus Regi!>lration time makes people student suspended until trial date iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii robert jacques
act cra~:y ... <.,lecping out in the cold is prohibited and ultimately pun­It b likelv that in recent times you have had chocolate in one or
Hurrah
to get a jock course... drinking beer ished by Notre Dame barring him more of its. various forms. whether it be candy bars. chocolates. 
while waiting for a class that will from classes. from completion of Dear Editor: fudge. icc cream, or topping. It is also likely th.at you noticed howclose out ju<.,t before your turn.... this school year and graduation. Just one comment concerning poorly it tasted. If you think about how most chocolate tastes, youTrying to get a rounded educa­Suppose the court finds this stu­Kathy Carrigan's column of Wed­will probably conjure up a memory of soft. brown. sweetened tion within this square system at dent innocent of his charge. nesday. April 7---Hurrah! At long plastic. The quality of the product has declined radically in the pastNotre Dame i<., vcrv difficult. After Consider the effects of Notre last someone from SMC has spoken decade and continues to do so at a rapid pace.
all the tinancing it ·took to reach the Dame's verdict. This student will up on -student government and the In sc\-cral months America will celebrate its 200th Anniversary.
stage of senior. a person would be forced to forfeit this year due to student body's role in it. 
Such a time of rejoicing should also be a time to critically evaluate think he would get more respect suspension and add another se­Student government has the the nation and its successes and failures. One accomplishment ofand sen icc. I can on!~-hope things Notre to a active

mester to his education. potential be vibrant, recent times which should be noted is the sharp reduction of the 
get better. But until then, most of Dame has thus imposed a delay of organization, if only students take number of people living in poverty in the past fifteen years. In 1960the <.,tudcnh got to be singin' the career plans and added financial advantage ofit, and make it so. For there were 40 million Americans in poverty while in 1974 tht.rc were Prc-Regi~tration Blues. burden. The innocent party has too long now, the tradition of "an 
24.3. During the same period the population increased from 17 9 to then been punished by the Univcr­appointive system" for the position 213 million. Povcrt.v declined from 22 percent to II percent of theTim Halce sitv for a nonexistent crime. of SBP has existed---for the last countrv.

Mr. Cannon is innocent today four elections, as a matter of fact. Thc~e two disparate topics -chocolate and povert~· -are reall~­and will be innocent until a court This is not to criticize those former vcry closclv related. In fact, one largely is dependent upon the appointed by the state of Indiana and present studen' government other: that is. the quality of chocolate varies directly with the size
Pre-Trial 

decides otherwise. Only at that leaders, for they were and are of the portion of the populace in poverty.
time is it appropriate for the perhaps. the most qualified to hold Before we progress any further. note that chocolate is on!~· an
Prejudice 

Universit\' to make a decision the position. 
example being used here for simplicity's sake. Almost all t~·pcs of

conccrnir~g his status as a student. But the student needs
body a products have suffered from falling quality in the past several We appeal to the conscience of • choice from whom it selects its
Dear Editor: decades. Such items range from car~ which decay before they
the University staff, faculty and president. and that choice cannot obsolesce to appliances which not onl~· don't function but which also We. the undersigned wouid like students in questioning whether come if no one becomes involved. 
misfunction to furniture of the cheapest plywood and pine which to express our opinion of the this action is ethically and morally Student Government cannot work sells at a mahogany price.

Universitv's action concerning a just in the "profcss~d" Christiai1 unless students work. 
The primary reason for the decline in quality can be traced to an 

In the elections that are coming
fellow N1~trc Dame student. Chris community. Colleen Koch explosive rise in demand for the products. This demand results from 
Cannon. Maggie Waltman up. be concerned enough to run-­a rising standard of living which is well reflected in the poverty
Student Assembly meets only once
We feel his suspension is a gross Mark Wimmer index. The rising standard puts more money in the average person's
Annie Hawkins every other week---you'll be doing
injustice. Dean Roemer previously hand, giving him the ability to demand more goods.
stated (Observer, April 2) that he Bud McQuestion yourself and fellow students a This great demand produces the loss of quality for two reasons: Michael Hoy 
would not "do anything to preju-favor. Scarcity of essential ingredients. and the profitability of offering to dice the ~tudent's ing case." and 721 other students Mary Janca Class of '76 the masses "high class" items of similar appearance and affordable price but of lower quality. 
The key ingredients are those which arc essential to the product in which they appear. Such is cocoa to chocolate and tine wood to furniture. The quantity of mahogany is clearly limited and beyond man's immediate control. This holds largely true for a product such as cocoa; there is a limit to the amount which can be grown. However. the more influential factor is the price at which it can be sold. Regardless, the quantity has been kept below the amount really needed to produce quality chocolate. 

• 
Closely related is the ability of producing a superficially equivalent product at a lower price. The economizing is achieved by skimping on key ingredients and replacing them with less expensive tiller. For example, Hershey's Syrup with "genuine chocolate flavor" contains. in order of quantity, sugar, water, corn syrup, and cocoa. The small amount of chocolate used results in a lower demand for cocoa by the producers and thus a smaller quantity grown and sold at a higher price. This goes back to the limited quantities of essentials. 
Very simply put without losing accuracy. it has shown that rising prosperity has been responsible for the decay of quality that. for most consumers, has become a constant headache and an unavoidable consequence of buying anything. 


Is general well-being for the masses worth the decline of quality of life for those who were once able to obtain it but now cannot. these people being primarily of the middle class which is continuing to expand along with the upper lower class which is nearby? Is democracy worth it? 
For tho~e who have seen the quality disappear in products which they are accustomed to, perhaps one answer is obvious or at least prevalent. For the group which has only recently come to taste of the variety of goods previously unavailable. perhaps the opposite answer is obvious or at least prevalent. 
But what is the correct answer, the best answer, the objective one? Perhaps it is too much to ask of it this year. This Centennial has seen the asking of the question, "Is democracy worth it?" Maybe the next Centennial will see the answer to the question. 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 



Founded November 3, 1966 The Observer IS publ1shed by students of the University of Notre Dame and EDITORIAL BOARD St Mary·~ College It does not necessarily rdlect the pol1cies of e1ther 
Thomas O'Npil Ed1tor-1n-Chief
mq1tut10n The news IS reported as accurately and obwct1vely as possible 
D,m Sam he1 Manag1ng Ed1tor
l: d1tonab represent the op1n1on or a maJOrity of the F:d1tonal Board 
Gregg Bangs ExPCU!IVP Ed1tor
Commentanes are the v1ews of md1vidual ed1tors Op1n1ons, cartoons and 
Val Zurbl1s E xecut1ve Ed1tor
reguiM columns express the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space IS 
Pat Hanlfm Ed1tonal Ed1tor
available to all members of the commun1ty, and letters are encouraged to 
Bob MadPr Expcut1ve News Ed1tor
promott• the frpe express1on of varymg opinions on campus MaurePn f-lynn Campus Editor Marti Hogan St Mary's Ed1tor Don Remwr Copy Editor
Bus1ness 283-7471 Ed•tonal~ 281-1711 
Tm1 O'Reiley FeaturPs Editor f-rPd Herbst Sports Ed1tor AdvPrt1s1ng Manager Tom Whelan Mary E'gan Contnbutmg Editor 
Friday, April 9, 1976 



Friday, April 9, 1976 t_he obseryer 
Letters to a Lonely God 
the grace of the paraclete 
Reverend Robert Griffin 


It was a store front church in a mid-town Manhattan building whose upper floors were used for office space by some of the trade unions; but the Holy Spirit made His appearance in that church so frequently that those Protestants claimed it was His New York headquarters. He always showed up for prayer meetings. they said. making a noise like that of a strong, driving wind among the congregation. Some members claimed they had seen Him making appearance was felt, but never ~ccn. It was His habit to make ordinary Christian~ into instruments for His music. singing through them in strange tongues. It wa~ a wonderful experience. they said, being rung like a bell hy the Spirit of God a~ God praised Himself in the ecstatic uttcrant'L'S the~· could feel on their tongue!>. 
It wa!-. a gift given as human language fails and there arc no wonb left. as when lover!-. togL·thn become tongue-tied with dl'light; thL·n God takes over in an ordtc!-.tration ,,f grace. Once upon a time. thev !-.aid. all the world spoke a single language and spoke the same works. until the Lord. at Babel. confused men's !-.pecch. making a babble of the language of the arth. Now om·c again. they said. God L·ome~ among us using a diversity of 
'-· 

For the la.,t two year.,, everything has bt·t·n going right for Pure Prairie League. Fir~t Craig Fuller·.., "Amie." off the 1972 album. 11·a~ re-rek'a..,ed and got the group on till' chart~. Then HCA rounded up the then di~handl'd group san~ Fuller and gave them a nell rontrarl. With Larr\ Go!-.horn taking FulfL-r'' plat'l' a., lead guitari.,t and l'hid ..,ong11 riter. the group produced a lt'l'l'l'Oillpt•tt·nt and popular cli.,t·. Two tanc llighwu,\. 
In an allt'II1Jlt to go a pnft·,·t three I'm tilrt't' in their t'Oillt'll<1l'k, 1'1'1. ha.., run into a .,na.l: 111th their late\t album. If The Shoe Fit'-. Iht• problem come., in the area that hdkr L'Xt'l'lll'(l in -.,ongwriting. Fuller wnllt' .,OI11l' lt'rv pn:111· h:dlad.., -"Amic" and 'Tarl~ Morning l{i..,er" and "('all Me. ldl Me" from the Bustin' Out album are anwnl: hi' he.,l. Hi' .,oft. attrat·tivc voice 11 a~ ·al.,o the perfect vehicle fot· his romantit· l1ric..,, 
Go... horn i~ a rock n' roll guitari!>t turned t'ountn. Hi., best !>ong.., arc his straight rocker.,, ~uch a.., "Two Lane Highway." off tht· album of the !>amc name. He loves to lt·t loo..,c 11 ith some loud. fast guitar solos. 'I hndorc the hc..,t song., on this album are a 1'l'llorking of Buddy Holly's "That'll Be 'I he D:tv" and "Gimmc Another Chance." Goshorn takL·s a few leads in ead1 to keep the !>ong., moving along. However. Gos­horn oftvn pt'L'.,.,L•., hi., lut·k and places the'l' .,oh1., in song., tht·~· have no right lll'i ng in. 
In "Sun ShonL· Lightly." Goshorn is ..,inging about those constant country thL·mL'!>-"what a hummer it is on the road and I wbh I was home with you." Right in till' middll' of thi., vcr~· slow paced song. Go... twrncomcs in with a ntucou!>. loud and vcr~· h:u·.,lt ~olo. It ha~ no place in the song. 
tongues to speak through us a single language of praise, and Pentecost is here (it was the summer of '71) in a store front church on Forty-ninth street. 
I first heard of the store front church 
through one of the Children of the 
Paraclcte named Irma La Douce. The 
people of the church called themselves the 
Children of Paraclcte because, they said. 
Jesus. promising He would not leave 
them orphans, had sent them the Spirit as a father and comforter. Irma La Douce was one of those women who is a professional sweetheart to any neighborhood she lives in. Irma, she would explain, was the name given her at birth; La Douce was a professional name she adopted after seeing the movie with Shirley McClain. It was easier to think of Irma as La Douce than as a Child of the Paraclcte, she was an older woman with married children. She often walked the pavements with another aging hooker called Amazing Grace. Grace was mostly amazing because she was nearly seventv. and she booked more trade at the cheap iwtcls off Eighth Avenue than most of the girls who were a third her age. Sometimes I would talk with the pai'r of them at the old Muffinburger restaurant 

gregg bangs 
As a matter of fat'! it ruin., the mood and L'\l'ntuall'. the song it...clL 
(io... llllrn and original l'I'L member lit'<lr).(L' Ed l'm~t·ll simp!~, eannot match the .,(011<'1' songs of Fulll'r. All oftht·m fot'u., on th,· alort•rm·ntiPnt•d theme of being "lonc­h." lhi~ inahilit~· tu wmt· up with ~n1m·thing nHH'l' di1crsificd ran he 0\'L'l'­IPoknl if the in~lrumt·ntal~ can Jll'm·ide so1m· dill'l'.,ifiration. hut 1'1'1 tum.., out the s;r111L' boring ht·at 011 t'\'l'l'\ ... tml "'ng on thi~ album. It i~ quitt• a ~lwt·k to kam that the .,lm1 ..,ong~ that u...cd to lw tht• strong point of thi~ group art' now tlll'ir wcakncs.... 
lhi., is not to !>a_\ that tht• album i., a total 11 '"tl', lor there arc quite a fc11 uptempo ...onl:' whirh 11011 haH' become PPL'!> 'Jlc~·ialt\·. "tiimmt· Another Cham·c" i.., probahlv Go!>horn·~ best writing dfurt on the tli..,.·. I'PL'!> u... ual laid hack countt')' nwod i., combined with a fine saxophone !>l'L'lion tu cmpha~ze the "dm1 n-in-the­dump!>" nwud of till' singer. 
"Out On the Street" b another Goshorn dfort and once again combines different !>tyll's. This time a _jazzy. blues approach is t'omhincd with the countrv stvlc. Everv mL•mber of the hand takes ~ sol;, in typic~! jau stvlc. Of the soloists. Michael Con­.nor·., 1jiano come!> off sounding the best. 
Connor and steel guitarist .John David Call arc the most consistent and imagina­tii'L' member!> of the band. On every song. their background work is imaginative and tll'\L'I' falls into a rut. In fact. LJllitc often the 11ork of the..,c two in background capacitil'!> outshines the solo work of Go... twrn and l'owcll. 
Perhaps the note that stuns up this album i!> the fact that Buddv Hollv wrote their best song. Better luck ;text ti~tc. 
courtesy of mac's record rack 
···········································~·················· 
•• 
We forgot to giue credit to •• Mac's Record Rack ••• 
for their gracious donation 
of the Maria Muldaur and the Laura N~ro albums that we reuiewed on April 6. 
···································,~························ 
"You should see them, Father," said Irma, speaking of the Paraclete's Children; 
"You should see them shouting and praying and praising the Lord. The Spirit gets in them, and the noise of Him comes so swiftly that you can't count the words. It's like singing, only you never heard the tune before because it isn't a tune. You never heard the words before, because it isn't just words. It's a prayer like God would make if He were talking to Himself." 
Amazing Grace would say nothing. but her eyes glittered and her hands trembled as she drank he coffee. She didn't believe a 
•word that Irma was saying. but she didn't want to admit it in front of the priest. 
"How about you. Irma?" I said. "Do you shout and pray and praise the Lord?" 
"Oh . no, not me," said Irma. as though I had made her an indecent proposal. "I've not been baptized in the Spirit. You've got to be baptized in the Spirit before _you can pray in Jesus. I've been praying to be baptized in the Spirit, but if I were baptized in the Spirit, where would I go afterwards? You can't be baptized in the Spirit. and pray in Jesus. then go back to working the streets. That would be sinning. and God doesn't need to be grieved by sinners praying in the name of Jesus." 
Grace said: "You want to pray in Jesus, you go ahead and pray. if they'll let you. Don't worry none about working the streets. I can take care of us." 
"Oh. Grace," Irma said. "You don't 
believe in praying in Jesus. I know you 
don't believe in that." 
"I don't believe in nothing," said Grace; 
then. glancing at me, she added: "if you'll 
pardon me for saying it. But you believe in 
it. You're always talking about believing in of those Italian widows who are always in the back pew. praying for the souls of their deceased husbands. 
''I'm doing it," she said. ''I'm living on Grace's money. I've been to confession. and I've asked to be baptized in the Spirit. They said they would baptize me if I would stand up in the meeting and tell them truthfully that my sins have been washed away, and my soul has been saved by .Jesus." She fixed me with a glittering eye. "Do you think my soul has been saved by Jesus?" 
"St. Paul savs there is no other name under heaven· by which men can be saved." I answered obliquely. mostly because I feel unconfortahle with the Protestant fundamentalist idiom. 
"They didn't make me crawl." she said. "But I'm not sure about my soul's being saved. I'll just have to wait and sec if my soul's been saved." 
It was nearly the end of the summer before I saw Irma again. She was haL·k in the Muftinburger in the hustll!r's uniform. It was obvious she was again working the streets. 
"I never made it," she said. "Thev baptized me in the Spirit, and they touched me with their hands. and they prayed over me for an hour. but I never prayed in Jesus." 
·'Oh. really.·' I said, sounding like a lead in the senior class play. "Tough luck, Irma.'' 
"They said I mustn't have been saved. They said I must have a demon in my soul. They put their hands on my head and prayed that the damned thing would come out of me. It never came out of me; I didn't think it would. I don't have no demon in my soul, but I know I'm not saved. either." 

nPeople who do all that shouting and praying are usually pretty narrowminded,' said Grace bitterly, ~unless you're willing to crawl." 
···············~············································ 
it. It's always bothering your head. So I say: go ahead and try it, if they'll let you." "You don't think they will let her?" I 
asked. 
"People who do all that shouting and praying are usually pretty narrow­minded.' said Grace bitterly, "unless you're willing to crawl. They love to make women who hustle for a living crawl and crawl so that some preacher man can say, 'Go and sin no more.' like some big. stuck-up .Jesus." 
"The story also says, 'Let him who is without sin cast the first stone,' " I pointed out as one who is a sticler for the text. "They never heard that part of the story," said Grace. "They just know about telling you to go and sin no more.'' She turned to Irma. "If you want to crawl for them, go ahead. But don't tell them that when you go and sin no more. you're going to do it on a whore's wages, 'cause then they would want me to go and sin no more too. If it comes to that. you'll never get to pray in Jesus." 
I left the two of them arguing: Grace urging and Irma refusing, because, she said, she couldn't take Grace's money; and Grace saying she didn't know why not, it was just as good as any money Irma ever earned. 
About a week later, I met Irma on the 
street. I probably wouldn't have recognized her if she hadn't spoken to me. In place of the hot pants and gladiator boots tradi­tional among the professional sweethearts in New York, she wore a black dress. In palce of the blonde bouffant wig she always wore was a black hat crushed down on black and graying hair. She looked like one 
"Prayer and fasting." I said. spotting the Protestant aberration. "The Bible says that prayer and fasting arc what is needed. They left out the fasting." 
"They made me crawl," she said. "They tried to make me think I had a demon in my soul. They made me crawl, and alii wanted was to pray in Jesus. Did you ever pray in Jesus, Father?" 
"I've never even tried," I said. "At least, I've never tried in that way. I never thought it would work for me." So we sat there. the priest and the prostitute. wondering what it was like to be rung like a bell by the Spirit of God. 
"For most of us," I said, "I think He come in more ambiguous ways.'· 
"Grace is praying in Jesus now." Irma. said. "She came to the meeting. They were praying over me.All of a sudden, Grace stands up and starts shouting amen. She said she knows she's a sinner, but she believes the Lamb of God has taken her sins away.'' 
"Amazing," I said. "Who's supporting her?" 
"Nobody." said Irma. "She's suppor­ting herself. She's selling papers. I offered to help her. but she said no, she didn't need a whore's wages." (I later heard of an old witch without teeth selling apples on 42nd street. It wasn't Grace.) 
"Can a seventy year old woman really be counted as an orphan?" Irma asked. 
"Not if she's got the Spirit," I said. think she already knew that. I think both of us knew who the orphans are in the neighborhoods of mid-town Manhattan. 


ft • I ~ \ ' 

L­
THE AN lOSTAL ASSASSIN GANG poses with an unlucky victim john Rooney by name]. just seconds after this photo was taken, Mr. Rooney received the fatal pie-in-the-face treatment, and is now living m the lighter side of custard. [Photo by Chris Smith] 

Assassins zero in on pie victims 
by Ron Porkins Staff Reporter 

Who knows what evil lurks in the hearts of men? The Shadow knew, but the An Tostal Assassin Service should have an even better idea within the near future. Code­named "Pie in the Eye, Inc.", the Service commences its funny (and sloppy) business this week. 
"You take out a contract with our organization," says Mugsy Mer­nick, division chief of SMC Sector, ''and you can rest assured the hit will be made. Like the Mounties, our SPLAT Unit (Surprise Pies Legion of An Tostal) always gets its 
man." 
The basic mission of the Assassin Service is simple. In the next two weeks. students of Notre Dame and St. Mary's will be permitted to take out "contracts" on other students of the ND-SMC community. In exchange for a fee, the Assassins will provide an anonymous delivery service featuring cream pies or the deluxe banana cream specials. The "assassinations" will take place during An Tostal times and loca­tions prearranged with the Service. 
Hesburgh appoints family social scientist I as Visiting Kenan Professor of Sociology! 
Dr. Joan Aldous. a soctal scten· ti~t spccialit.ing in study of the family. has been appointed Visiting 
Kenan Prokssor of Sociology at the 
University of Notre Dame. it has 
been announced bv Rev. Theodore 
M. Hcsburgh. C.S-.C.. president of the lJ niversitv. 
Prof. Aldous received her bacca­laureate from Kansas State Univcr­sitv. her M.A. from the University or'Tcxas. and her doctorate from the University of Minnesota, where she joined the sociology faculty after receiving her Ph.D. in 1963. 
Her work at Minnesota included a dissertation on family continuity patterns over three generations, two international bibliographic inven­tories of published research on marriage and the family, a study of parental influences on children's crcativitv. and research on the effects ~f father absence on low income Negro and white children's perception of family structure and adult sex roles. She directed graduate studies in sociology at Minnesota in 1968-69 and chaired the university's Council for Univer· 'ltv Women's Progress in 1973. 
Since leaving Minnesota in 1974, 'he has been doing research and teaching at the University of Geor­gia. She has also held visiting faculty positions at the University of Louvain. the University of Tenn­essee and Tulane University. 
She is a panel member of the Population Research Review Sec­tion of the National Institute of Health and has been active in the American Sociological Associa· tion's family section. She is an J.S?<;l'li~te editor of · the National 
Council' ~n~ Fa:nilVR.e'1at'iori's Jo~r: 
"We'll accept virtually any mis­sian, no matter what the danger," claims Kathy Capone of SQ Sector, "However, the Service reserves the right to usc its own discretion in judging the appropriateness of making an assassination at certain times, locations and situations. This ruling is in compliance with a directive from "higher authority" that no hits be made in the dining hall, the library, or the classroom 
buildings.·· 
The Service will operate accord­ing to the following procedure. Contracts may be obtained at three locations throughout the ND-SMC community. On the contract, the purchaser will provide the victim's name, address, phone number and a brief physical description. In addition, the purchaser must pro­vide his own name, address and 
~:~~~n~~~~~~i~~;i~~r l~aio~~=?:~ 
arrange the details of the assassin­ation. This information will be kept confidential unless the buyer sped­
fically requests a revelation of his idcntitv. the SPLAT unit will never reveal-to the victim ·'who hit him.'' 
The basic cream pic assassina­

nal ot Marnage and the Famtly. 
"As a distinguished family soda­logist, Prof. Aldous will have major 
rcsp )!Jst"bt'lt't f' r th d 1 t
l y o c eve opmen of our departmental program in that area," said Dr. Leo A. Despres, chairman of Notre Dame's department of sociology and anthropology. 
The William R. Kenan Jr. Chair in Sociology at Notre Dame was established by a $750,000 gift from the Kenan Charitable Trust of New York City, which over the last decade has established several endowed professorships at colleges and universities 'to be held by scholar-teachers whose enthusiasm for learning. commitment to teach­ing and interest in students may be expected to make a notable contri­bution to the undergraduate com­munity." 
Mr. Kenan. who died in 1965. was president and part owner of the Flager Systems Companies which included railroads, hotels, utilities and other enterprises de­veloped along Florida's west coast. 
..
' 
Graduating Seniors 
Congratulations! After 4 years of hard 'M>rk you deserve a new car. No 
payrrents until August. 
Call or See Art or Jack at: Metro Unooln-merany 

Mishawaka, Indiana ·,·256·021-F•·;• • · • '.-' '·' · ·' 

Harvard professor pessimistic on racial justice developments 
by Valerie Zurblis Executive Editor 
''When the issue is justice for blacks vs. racism or whites, racism for whites wins When the issue is racism for whites vs. self-interest for whites, justice for blacks wins." 
This is the belief that Professor Derrick A. Bell from Harvard University Law School stated in last night's Fifth Annual Civil Rights Lecture series. 
Before a crowd of about 200 at the Center for Continuing Educa­tion auditorium, the two part series entitled "Racial Remediation: A Reanalysis of Motivation and Bene­fit.'' Bell discussed the nature of racism and the historicak aspects of Civil rights values in America. 
Bel has what some call a pessi­mistic attitude on the assessment of the nation's racial development and the "straw-thin indications" 
tion will cost seven dollars. Four dollars of this sum will be contri­buted to Sr. Marita's Day School and the remainder will be retained to defray An Tostal Expenses. For "those special people," thirteen dollar banana cream specials will also be available. 
The prices were set high for a number of reasons, said Bob Quakenbush, An Tostal chairman. First, it reduces the number of pies 
purchased out of pure spite or vindictiveness. Second, the price should keep demand to a manageable level. Third, it makes the event more exclusive, "one could consider it an honor to be hit with a pie," according to Quaken­bush. Fourth, it encourages greater participation. "We're counting on people pooling their money to take 
out contracts on the victim-of-their· country s democratic tmage and 
ch~~~t~~~;:dc~u~~e~~~:i~·ed frorr ,-8 0 I[A -S-HED~~-----f 
the followmg persons: t ~ St. Mary's: "Mugscy" Mernick, 
EVERYONE WELCOME 
525NoMrtchCanQdulaeds~.. Ph.~n8eab4_?04F.aceJ 
, Stuber, 139 8-P, phone 1705. t South Quad: Kathy Kapone, 434A 
Lewis, phone 8913. ' 
lhc Kenan Chatr 1s one ot the 20f endowed professorships estab­

lishcd at Notre Dame since 1967. -----------------­
~ 
~.
. -.· ,~ 
.. ~ 
-<~ 
that black injustice will end some­day. Bell questions the expectation that "black an white Americans tend to assume that our race problem is receding" and saw little support of the statement in legal history. 
''There is much evidence in the past and more in the present indicating that contemporaries, who expect racial discrimination will fade soon, are damaging to black hopes as those who extended slavery by prophesizing its eminent demise, and those later prophets who insulted blacks by foretelling America's racial salvation through amalgamation," stated Bell. 
The controversial Bell suggested that there is evidence in the past with indications in the present that racism will survive us and our children. 
Historical aspects 
Bell then delved into examples in American legal history to support his statements. Bell suggested, "Many black gains resulted from policies which were intended and have the effect of serving the convenience of whites," usually economically or politically, "rather than remedying racial injustice against blacks," Bell cited major liberating events in black history-­the Emancipation Proclamation, the Thirteenth Amendment and the Civil Rights Act of 1866, the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amend­ments and the Civil Rights Acts of 1870-1875. 
Bell pointed out three character­istics besides the political-econo­mic conditions that prevaile when these cases were decided. One was the judicial relief sought to curb policies harmful to blacks, which was at the same time damaging and embarr&ssing to the country's stated ideals. Second was that the decisio~s tended t~ i~prove the 
!i 
'"lf THIS FRIDAY AND EVERY f 
FRIDAY AT 5:15p.m. I 
t Mass followed by dinner ff 
~ Cb¢ BOOR'S-HElJID 
f&stauttant 
oo 52885 U.S. 31 North South Bend 1 272-5478 
• ~ "' II>' .. "'" .. .. • • ............... 
only secondarily repaired harm done. The third characteristic was that the non-racial decisions bene­fitted the community at large more th;;n it did the blacks. Bell proved these statements with examples. 
Other prospectives 
Bell described another disturb­ing pattern of the tragic develop­ment of black history of the 1787. Here delegates of the 1787 Consti­tution Convention s.olved their dif­ferences by compromising allowing slavery and protection of it. 
Bell also quotes a theory of Edmund Morgan that slaves were created to make the poor white farmer higher in status to halt the differences between them and rich farmers. 
Professor C. Van Woodward was aptly quoted as saying, "Just as the Negro gained his emancipation and new rights through a falling out between white men, he now stood to lose his rights through the reconciliation of white men." 
Poor shelter 
Bell came up to date with examples of black civil right lead­ers being prosecuted on criminal conpiracy charges because of boy­cotting and picketing for better jobs. The federal courts and Sup­reme Court have adopted a hands­off policy in this area. In another case, "white majority rule is main­tained in the increasingly black urban areas by approving redis­tricting schemes for the purpose of frustrating black control." 
Long term progress against em­ployment discrimination ws jeopar­dized by the Supreme Court's refusal to recognize conflict of interests between black and white union members. Also racial bal­ance remedies in urban school 
(continued on page 10) 

Sunday is Fa~mily Day at The Boar's·Head! 
from Noon till10:00 p.m. on Sundays 
COMPLETE HAM or CHICKEN DINNER 
$3.95 

COMPLETE CHOPPED SIRLOIN or CHICKEN DINNER for Kids (Under 12) 4P'$-Id $1 75 (Ourregularmenu
O) ,.1'-• i(t • Is available too!) 





o'keefe 

ON THE TUBE Friday: The Story of David (9:00 pm, channl'l 2H): Timothy Bottoms. Anthony Quayle and Keith Mitchell star in this two--pal'\ biography of the King of Israel. Shot entirely on location in Israel and Spain. the second part of this special will air Sunday at 9:00 pm. Muslerpiet•e Theater (9:00. channel 34): lhL' tir~t part of a three-part series based on Somerset Mauglwm' s novel. Cukes and Ale. the stor~· of a young literary critic and hb wii'L' as they arc caught in the social ..wirl of Europe. Midnight Spedul (I :00 am. channel I 6): Fleetwood Mac. Barrv Manilow. Queen and more join Mlrpl:i~c hostcs~ Helen Hedd1. Salur(lu\: Baseball (2:15. channl'l 16): NBC op~·n., it~ coverage of the 197h season with the Hou.,ton Astro~ meeting the Reds in Cincinnati. Curt Gowdy calls the shots. Gull' (4:00. channel 22): ·r"he third round of 
Campus Briefs 
Sexual mythology p.m._ and m~dn_ight 
for the general 
d• d

t0 be ISCUSSe 
A lecture on ~cxual m.vthology 
Sund<~l' will wntinuc a Bicentennial 
lertur~· and public di~cu ..,~ion ~eric~ 
c<~llcd "Continuing the Amcril'an 
)~evolution: The Hoot., of Our 
National IdentitY... 
"Sexual M_vtlwlogy in America: 
I~75-1 H75 .. will he Sr. Madonna 
Kulben'>rhlag·., ll'ctUI'l' topic at the 
(',·ntl'l' lor Continuing FduL·ation. 
Su11.. April II. at 2:30 p.m. 
Koll,,·n-,chlag. who i., an a-,o.,io.,tant 
•proll-.,.,or of Amnican StudiL''>, will dco.,rribL· hm' frontil'l' condition'> and later OII'>L't ol the lndu-,trial Rnolution in America inllurnced dn,·lopmL'III of a di~tinrtl_1· Amer­i,·an idea of w~ualit1·. 
Undn thl' direction of Dr. A. 
hl\\;ml Manier. a~sociate profcs­
o.,or ol philoo.,oph~·. the Bicl'tltl'llllial 
'>l'l'iL'' io., L'O·'>pon~orL•d by Notre 
D;JlllL', the Forever Learning lno.,ti­
tliiL' and the South Bl'nd Panel of 
Amerintn Women. The series b 
open to the public without charge. 
and cnnft-rL·nce organi1cr~ hope to 
L'lll'ourage discussion of present 
and future public policy hy rellcc­
ting with the audience on past 
American experience. 
Other topics will include: 
-"Monument in a Landscape: 
The Dc~ign of the National Cap­
ital" by James 1'. Dougherty. 
a~"ll'iate professor of Engligh; 
Forever Learning Institute. Tues.. 
April 27. at I:.10 p.m. 
-"Hl'ligion and Politics in the 
American ){evolution" bv Nathan 
!latch. assistant profess;,.. of his­
torv; Center for Continuing Edul·a­
tioil. Wed .. April 2H. at 7:JO p.m. 
-"rthnk Bootstrap~ and Amer­
ican EL'llnomil' Development" by 
Janw., P. Stewart. in~tructor of 
L'con11mic~ and director of the Black 
Studi,·o., Program; Center hn· Con­
tinuing hltll'ation. Tue'> .. Ma~· 4, at 
7:.10 p.m. 
-"(oming of Age in the City: Sentiment and lmpcrsonalit~·" lw DoughL·rty; Forever Learning ln~ti· ture. Wed .. May 5, at I:.10 p.m. 
Farley to hold ''Sister'' week 
Hc~idenh of Farley will welcome si~tl.'r~. cousins, neighbors and friends today for "Little Sister" Wet•kend. Activities planned for 
'the visitors indude a party Friday Jenky, C .S.C. serving as master of night. preceding a special presen-ceremonies. The first performance tation of Walt Disney's Bedknobs will begin at 4:30 p.m. in the and Broomsticks. plus Bugs Bunny Lady chapel of Sacred Heart and l{oadrunner cartoons. The Church. A later performance at 8:00 movies will be repeated at 9:30 p.m. will be in the Main Church. 
. . ,·f·,.... ·., f ~·r· , ,.· ••··...·...·-.·.-~ ..·, ,· ....... ' ... ·,.·........ '. . ..... .'{ ~ ···'·"
,·, ,·,·,·, r. 
• • • • ~ • • • t • ,. 8 f • I • ' t f t • t t t • , • <1 • I If • • • <1 .. " • • t t lr l" ll> P " "' " P ~ I" " " • " . • .I" 
public. admi'sllln ~.50. 
Saturda1. all Farlcv re~idcnts arc invited to i1articipatc.in a picnic and games at I :30 p.m. on St. Mary's Lake ncar the Grotto. Mass will he cekbr<~tcd at 5 p.m. Saturday in the Farle.1· chapel. 
A ~pedal Sunda~· breakfast for the big and lit til' "~istcrs" is ~d1cdull'd for Sundav morning. 
Theatre presents ''Second Scene'' 
ThL· ND-SMC Theatre i~ sponsor­ing a ~eric~ of o.,Judent directed pr~~duction.,entitlcd OUH SECOND SCI:NF. l'articipanh in the pro­gram are member~ of the Notre Dame · St. Mar~··s Speech and Drama Department's advanced directing class. 
OUJ{ SECOND SCENE begins lhis Saturday. April 10 at li p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium with "Poor Man·~ Broadway '7h." Presented with the splendor of' New York City as a backdrop. this musical review 
is a tribute to Tony Award winning 1111;~111ng the growth of Notre Dame. 
musicalsandplaysfroml%2-1973. Maggie Dakoskc is directing. with set design by Greg Faller and costumes bv Barb Howald. There will be a i p.m. matinee perfor­manee Sunday. April 11. 
Future productions for OUH SECOND SCENE include "The Mirronnan" by Brian Way -a participation J;lay for children, Edward Albee's "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf'!". "The Balcony" hv .lean Genet and "Bevond the Horizon" by Eugene O'N~ill. 
There is no attendance charge. hut ticket~ will he required. Tickets n1<1~· he picked up at the door or n1<1~· be reserved by calling 21i4­417h. 
ND Chapel Choir performs Sunday 
On Sunday, Apr. II the U niver­sity of Notre Dame Chapel Choir. under the direction of Professor Sue Henderson Seid, will sing "The Passion of Our Lord" by William Billings. an early Ameri­
can composer. The work will be presented in the context of a vespers service celebrated by Fr. Eugene Gorski, C.S.C. with Daniel 
Fridc1y, April 9, 197& 
the entertainment week 
the Masters Tournament live from the beautiful and plush Augusta National course in Georgia. Nicholas Nickleby (9:00. channel 34): Charles Dickens· novel is brought to life by an all-star British cast that includes Sir Cedrick Hardwick. Katherine Nesbitt and Stanley Holloway. The P~nic in N~edle Park (II: I5. channel 
I h): AI Pacino made one of his earliest performances in this story of drug addic­tion and the ugliness it breeds. The movie sometimes becomes bogged down but is an interesting study of a difficult subject. Sunday: Basketball (2:30. channel 22): CBS has chosen to compete with the second-round action in Bookstore Basket­hall by televising the C'eltics-C'apitals game from Wa~hington. Bill Moyers Journal (10:00, channel 34): Moyers·guest is the former Vice-President, fonm:r presidential candidate. and the current Senator from Minnesota. Hubert 
Humphrey. It may be intcrc~ting to watch bn:au\e if Jimmy Carter doe~n't stop picking up speed land primary victories). ol' HIIH may not be on the tube much longer. Monda:H It's the Easter Beagle, Charlie Brown (H:OO. channel 22): Charlie, Luc~·. l.inu~. Sally. Peppermint Patty. Schroeder. 
ND Press prints 
~~ ~~?~~~'~' ~i~~~~~J 
to combine elem~nts of a pictorial 
guide with historical nanative has\ 
been published by the University of 
Nntre Dame Press. 
"The University of' Notre Dame: A Portrait of its Historv and Campu... " wrillen by Dr. ·r'Jwmas .1. Schlereth. an alumnus and historian of' Notre Dame as well as an as:-.i.,tant professor of Amerkan Studies. uses more than 4JO photo­graph~. map~. lithographs and arehitcctural drawing~ to lead readn., through six campus walks which illuminate key periods in Notre Dame history. 
"The Univcr~it~··s history for­tuitou~ly coincide~ with phl;togra­ph~ 's history." Schlereth notes in an introduction. explaining that he has used tintvpcs. glassplate ncga­lives..vcarhook photos. rotogra· vurcs. student snapshot albums. stereographs and newspaper half­tones not_ as ."mere. illustration" but ~s hJstlmcal ev1dence docu­
_lhc ~ook ~·cav?s together port­nuts of . ~111ve_rs1ty _leaders. ac­counts of h1_stoncal enscs, remem­branees of sports heroes and eampu~ legend~ to fl!rm the most extensive chro111cle of Notre Dame 
Lynch to head Rome program 
Sister M. Mercita Lynch, CSC, 
has been named new program 
director for the St. Mary's College 
Rome Campus. Her appointment 
takes effect at the start of the Fall 
1976 semester. Sister Lynch suc­
ceeds Sister M. Alma Peter. who 
returns to campus after serving two 
years as director of the program. 
Sister Lynch is presently assist­
ant librarian in the St. Mary's 
College library. a position she has 
held since 1966. Prior to her 
association with the college, she 
taught on the elementary and high 
school level in the Midwest. Sister 
Lynch received her B.A. from St. 
Mary's College in 1949, and her 
M.A. in Library Science from Rosary College in River Forest, Illinois in 1955. 
Established in 1970, the Rome Program allows students to exper­ience Italian culture while continu­ing their college education. Courses, taught by faculty from the St. Mary's campus as well as specialized native professors, in­clude fine arts, archeology, Italian literature, western civilization, philosophy and theology. 
Snoopy and others. Blow-Up (II :30. channel 22) Michelangelo Antonioni directed this beguiling and highly controversial movie that deals with the conflicts between reality and illusion through the lens of a photog~apher. David Hemmings and Vanessa Redgrave star in this 1967 film. which one critic called "a masterpiece to some, a cinematic landmark to others.'' Baseball (8:30. 28): ABC' has obtained the rights to broadcast a baseball counterpart to Monday Night Football and has hired the unlikely broadcasting team of Bob 
Prince. Bob Uecker and Warner Wolf to do the game~. Tonight they report the Yankee-Oriole game from Baltimore. Wednesday: Lincoln: The Last Da\'S (I 0:00. 16).: Hal Holbrook plays Abraha-m Lincoln superb!~· in the last episode in the series based on the wri,tings of Carl Sandburg. Tonight's episode deab with the final lb~·s in the life of the lhth president. Thursda)': The Greatest Stor} E\'er Told 
(9:00. I h): This is a particularly good rendition of the life of Jesus on film and docs an excellent job of dealing with Christ as a human who only graduall.v comes to an awareness of His divinity. Max von Sydow 
star~. 
.,......,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,~,~~~'::, 
~ u-~ ' ~ b ~ 
;;Ill( , () nh he "$"' <t " , .., ~
Ii 0 1). lmg h $ r, ''~. '<!,,, · _jlllll 
" ufa cc ~?Cor~ ~ ;;Ill( llaly-c: ,, ~ ~ u rinlm ~ 
I ~ 
~ ~~~:~~a~~~p:~=~~c;:;: ::~~ti~:i!~?~~a~~~~~:~=~~~:at~~t!~~:::~ ~ 
~ Applications will be at•t•epted between 2-4, Mon-Fri., for the ;;Ill( ~ following positions: Waiters, Waitresses, Bartenders, Cashiers, ~ ;;Ill( Kitdtcn Help, & Hostesses. !The Boar's Head is un Equal ~i Opportunity Emplo)crl · ~ 
k.....,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,..J 
AN INVITATION 

To All Notre Darre Staff Merrbers and Students to receive a special l 0 percent DISCOUNT on all purchases made at our Town & Country Store or in our Furniture, on GOLDBLAIT'S UNIVERSITY DISCOUNT COURTESY DAY, Saturday, April lOth, 1976, 9:30A.M. to 9 P.M. Si!ll>IY show this invitation and your Notre Darre Identification Card at tirre of purchase. This invitation also entitles you to participate in a drawing for a Free Fbrtable Color lV Set or a Deluxe Bar-B-Que Grill. (No purchase necessary ... just deposit your invitation in the Contest Box or 11"Eil it to the store. ( 
NAME. ................................................................. 
ADDRESS............................................................ . 
SPECIAL SPRING SALE 
!K:o~ 

lnstamatic 50 Outfit 
includes camera, magicube, film, wrist strap, instructions. 
SPECIAL $81.50 LIST $119..95 

AULT CAMERA CO. 127 S. Michi~-~an 
Business Manager 

the observer 

9 I 
The Shoes of the Fishermen (II :JO, 22): Another in the Easter flood of religiously oriented films, but by the same token another excellent one. ihis is the talc of an archbishop (Anthony Quinn) who is re­leased by the Russians after being held a~ a political prisoner and becomes the Pope. somewhat unwillingly. Laurence Olivier and Oskar Werner also star in this interesting and personal study. 
ON THE SCREEN Return of the Pink Panther: Peter SL'IIcrs revives his famous character. Inspector C'lousl•au. in this delightful sequel to Tht• Pink Panther. (Colfax) 
All the President's Men: RohL·rt RL·dford and Dustin Hoffman pla.v Bob Wood1\ard and Carl Bcrnstdn. the t\\O Washington Post reporters who broke the Watergate ca~c wide open and wrote a bc~t-.,dkr ahnut it. crown & C'ountrv )) The Man Who Would 01.' King: John lluston·~ film of Rudyanl Kipling·~ \tor~. starring Scan Conncrv. Midwel CainL· and Christopher Plummer. (forum )) 
ON TOUR Cont·erl (Saturda~·. 7:JO pml: Hu.,h. Starca~;tle. and the Sutherland Brotlll'r'> and Quiver at the ann1sticallr pnkd Morrb Civic. Heavy. 

Discussiononhunger held in library 
tion as a particial cause for the "The black market makes a great fessed amazement at the genero­Priest who fled Chile after the fall by Tom Byrne traditional misfortune of the area. deal of money at the cost of great sity of the Western countries. Serra of the Allende regime, explored Staff Reporter Also a factor in the unrest is the suffering of many peoples. The also described the rampant deaths the problem of inequality through­high "political consciousness" of government nationalized the indus­and dire famine ravaging the out the world. Members of the Notre Dame the people, which has led to a tries but they did not know how to region, and examined some of the It's difficult to imagine two community related their personal series of wars. run them," she noted. "And there different worlds coexisting,'' he
causes. insights into inequality and suf­Such wars and various natural was not time to learn." ''The economy was imposed on commented. "Very few students fering in the world before a small disasters, particularly the flooding Gomes expressed her frustration the Third world areas," he as­know the conditions where I live, in gathering yesteday in the library of two years ago, caused a great at only being able to offer the serted. "The mechanisms of dom­the west side of teh city-the black 
auditorium. The event was spon­"dislocation of people," according people "one meal," instead of ination are the common enemy, her section." Garate professed thata to Gomes, crowding much of the some hope for the future. and abroad." Serra pointed to the he came to Notre Dame to study
~ored by the Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition in commeration population in cities or ever-present Basil Serra, a graduate student disaproportionate consumption of economics in order to discover why of national "Food Day." refugee camps. in government, called his interactio resources by the industrial nations there are such differences in distri­AI Sondej, noted for his collec­"Nobody has any kind of stabi­with the poor in his native Bangla­as an illustration of domination. bution of wealth throughout the tions at the dining halls over the lity to do anything," she stated. desh his "happy days" and pro-Martin Garate, a Holv Cross world. 
past two years, described the situation in Bangladesh as "just -,ickening." He told his listeners about his experiences during his \ i~it to the southern Asian country. 
"I couldn't believe what I saw. It i~n't just pockets of poverty, it's evcrvwhere,'' he remarked. According to Sondej. the typical '>cenc in this region is one of ~tarving people sleeping on the street among insect.> and human wa!>te. Begging is the chief occupa­tion. 
One especially poignant incident he recalled involved an advanced leprosy victim known as "No­Face." Sondcj explained that the "money-lender" who owned the man would not allow a surgeon to repair his maimed face because it "·as an asset to his productivity as a beggcr. Sondcj also visited several refugee camps in the area and provided what aid he could for its inhabitants He noted that he was amazed by the "great gratitude" of the people despite their misfortune. 
"They spend their whole lives in the camp,'' he remarked. ''They just sit there, eat, get their wounds cleaned and sleep. I felt sorry for them," he added, "but then I went outside." 
There he found a huge mob of desperately hungry people, cla­moring for food. which no one had. ··there was just enough for those in the camp," Sondej explained. 
Similar scenes of chaos related by Sr. Miriams Gomes, currently studying at Notre Dames after spending much of her life helping to operate schools in Bangladesh. ··Bodies were lying on the streets," she stated. "People could not burv their dead." 
Gomes stated that parents were often reluctant to let the nuns relieve their emaciated children because of their value as effective beggars. 
.. It is good to be hungry," she commented, "But if day after day there i~ no hope to sati.sfy this hunger than it docs something to people... She classified the pro­blem in Bangladesh as "radical hunger," and termed it "oppres­~ive." because it caused its victims tn lose their sense of belonging to one another." 
Gomes explained the history of the region now called Bangladesh, and cited British colonial domina-
Bell speaks on racial justice 

(continued from page 8) desegregation ca.,es were shat­tered bv the Detroit school case. Bell comments, "The trends of these decisions illustrates that black people cannot afford the luxury of viewing rights as more than they arc. The United States Constitution could prove a very poor shelter if blacks rely on it to .,ave them from future political 'torms.'' Universitv President Fr. Theo­dore Hesburgh. to whom the series was dedicated, commented before the speech that he hopes Bell is wrong in his theories on racism. "In some ways I hope he is wrong. I hope we can be more optimistic about the future. If we can't the earth won't be a very nice place to live on.·· In today's lecture at 2 p.m. ast the CCE, Bell will further explore the nature of racism and review -;ome crucial components of stra­. tegies and accomodations of it. 
. . ··········· ... '
'.'.' ....... . 




129 north michigan street, downtown south bend 
c;R-AND OPE'N'1Nc; CELESR.ATION~ 
with the string band of Martin, Bogen, and the Armstrongs featuring blues harpist Big Walter Horton Saturday, April 10 
Appearing soon: Fenton Robinson, April 16-17 

.M.USIC~ FOOD AND DRlN~. 
Homemade Food. Popular Prices & No Computers 


AN EXTRAORDINARY REALISTIC® STEREO SYSTEM AT 999o OFF! 

Regular Separate Items Price ... 728.90

• 
Realistic STA-225 AM-FM Stereo Receiver with Auto-Magic® FM Tuning 

• 
Two Realistic Optimus-58 Walnut 


$629

Veneer Floor Speaker Systems 
• Realistic LAB-100 Manual Turntable, 
and you can

Base, Dust Cover, $39.95 Value 

BANKAMERICARD

Elliptical Cartridge CHARGE IT •
At Radio Shack Mt4WU 

There's Only One Place You Can Find It . .. Radio Shack. 

I 

SCOTTSDALE MALL 
Most 1tems al5o available at Rad•o Shack Dealers Look for th•s s•g• 
·.·.. ··.". 
.., ....... -. 'I 
I •I J
. .i· 
-If 

_,________________________, Friday, April9, 1976 the observer 11 
I \~========~====~====== 
Two to three regattas arc sched­1 N D • SM C The following is the final Notre Dame-St Mary's 1 uled every weekend, giving anyone 

shuttle bus schedule prepared by the Ombudsman
1 1 Women's 
who wishes to race the chance to doService, Office of Student Affairs. and the South Bend 1 so. Two years ago. the Midwest

I Public Transportation Corp. If you usc the shuttle at all began to hold all women regattas.
please cut this out and save it. I The first one was held here in the
I ShUttle All express routes (marked "c") leave from spring of 1973 and has now become
Sports
I Nieuwland and LeMans. All local routes (mardcd "I") I an annual event.
leave from the library circle and LcMans Sundav thru 1 In the fall of I'174 the women
I friday at 6:00. Friday night andall day Saturday the bus 
placed first in Ohio Weslyan 'swill run from LcMans to the Nicuwland side of the Women's Hcgatta. enabling Notre

I Schedule I 
library. 
Dame to be the first team to ever

Shorts 
win the 32" sterling silver, perpe­tual McDonald Cup trophy. 

I I 
I I 
In the spring of I'175 the womenWomen golfers' placed second in the Midwest Women's Sailing Championships;
IFrom Notre Dame From St. Mary's I 
thus caring them a berth in the

spring roundup 
Women's National Sailing Champ­

I -----------I 
ionships held at the Chicago Yacht

of events 
Cluh in June. The Notre Dame

I I 
team finished the event leading theby Pat Dore Midwest contention, and placing ninth. out of 14, overall. 

I (MW/F) (TT) (Sat) (MW/F) (TT) (Sat) I Last weekend the women golfers This spring. in addition to racingopened their spring season by
I I
7:45e 7:45e 12:20 7:45e /:45e 12:05 
with the regular school team. thefacing a strong University of Illinois

1 I
8:001 8:001 1 :00 8:001 8:001 12:40 
"omen will travel to Indiana Uni­team. Feeling right at home on the

I 
8:151V 8:151V 1:40 8:151 8:151 1:20 
I 
versity for women's

U. of I. Orange Course, the Big Ten a seminar in
8:301 8:301 2:20 8:301 8:301 2:00 
sailing and an all-female regatta.

I 
team easily handled the Irish,
8:53e 8:451 3:00 B:53e 8:451 2:40 
I 
They will also race in the Midwest

9:051 9:001 3:40 9:051 1-:001 3:20 
turning in the low three scores. 
Women's Championships at Ohio

I I
9:201 9:18e 4:50 9:201 9:18e 4:30 
Finishing fourth was Barb Brees­Weslyan. The team's ultimate
9:351 9:301 5:30 9:351 9:301 5:10 
I 
man, a junior and Irish team
I 
goal. the nationals, will be held in
9:58e 9:451 6:10 9:5Be 9:451 5:50 
captain. Junior Sue Fitzpatrick. Lou Boston this year.
10:101 10:001 6:50 10:101 10:001 6:30 
I 
Karas, and Kathleen Riordan also 
10:251 10:151 7:30 10:251 10:151 7:10 
competed for the Irish.
I 
I 
10:401 10:301 8:10 10:401 10:301 7:50 
I 
This Saturday the Notre Dame's 
Track meet

11:00e 10:48e 8:50 11:03e 10:45e 8:30 
Women'sgolf team will host South­
I 
11:151 11:001 9:30 11:151 11:001 9:10 
1 
ern Illinois University. Western 
11:301 11:151 10:10 11:301 11:151 9:50 
on April 1Oth

Michigan University, and St.
1 1
11 :451 11 :301 11 :20 11 :45e 11 :301 11 :00 
Mary's College in the First Annual
12:08e 11:451 12 :00 12:08e 11:451 11:40 
"Chief" Broderick Invitational. with Ball State 
;~:~~:v 12:oo1 12:2o1 12:oo1 12:2o
12 :40

I 1I The Broderick, honoring Notre by Mary Hums
12:18e 12:351 12:18e 1:00
I 
1:20 
Dame law professor John "Chief" 
I 
12:501 12:301V 2 :00 12:501 12:301 1:40 1:OSe 12:451 1 :05e 12:451 2:20 
I 
Broderick's contribution to the Notre Dame's Women's Track women's golf program, will be held club traveled to Purdue this past 
I 
1 :201V I :OOe 1 :20e 1:OOe 1:351 1 :151V 1:351 1:151 
every spring on Notre Dame's weekend to compete in the annualI 1:501 1:301 (Sun) 1:501 1:301 (Sun) 
home course, the Burke Memorial. Purdue University Invitational. Tee-off times for this weekend's Representing the Irish were Sue tourney will begin at noon on Behnke in the 100 and 220 yard 
I I
2 :08e 1:451 2 :08e 1:451 
I ~:~~: ~:~~: 12:15 ~:~~~ ~:~~: :~:~~ I 
Saturday and 9:30 AM Sunday dashes. and 440 relay; Bontia 
3:251 2:33e 3:13e 2:33e 1:00 
I 
The Irish travel to Lexington-over Bradshaw in the 440 yard dash,
12 :45

I !:~~: 2:451 1:15 3:401 3:001 1:30 
the Easter break to play in the J .J. De Foor in the 100 and 220
I I
3:151 1:4s 4:18e 3:301 2 :oo 
University of Kentucky Invita­yard dashes, and 440 relay; Peggy 
~:~~:~: 40 3:48e 2:15 4:451 4:001 2 :30 
tional. facing the tough Southea~­Hester in the 880 yard dash. Mary
4:151 5:23e 4:301 3 :00
2 :45 

tern Conference Schools. Hums in the long jump and 440
I 1
6:15 6:20 4:451V 6:00 6:00 5:001
3 :45 
yard relay, and Helen Weber in the '

1 6:45 7 :oo 5:20e 6:30-6:40 5:321 !~~~ 1
4 :15 
mile run.

~::; : 5:451 4 45 6:00 Regatta plans 
7:00-7:20 4:30 7 40 
The top effort for the Irish was 

6:15 5:15 7:30 6:30 5:00
I 1 the mile rcaly team of Hums,
1 
8:158:20 645 5 :45 8:008:00 7:00 5:30 
1 aimed toward 
Behnke, Weber and Bradshaw,

::~~-9:00 7:15 6:15 8:308:40 7:30 6:00 
which took fifth. Individuals who

1 :45 9 :oo a:oo 1 .
6:45 6 :30
I nat1onal event placed were Bradshaw, who took
9:45 9:40 8:15 7:15 9:30-9:20 a:30 10 -.15 9·.15 7:00 I seventh in the 440 yard dash,
7:45 10:00-10:30 9:30 7:30I 10:45 10:50 9:45 8:15 10:30 10:00 a:OO by Carole Frollng Weber, seventh in the mile, and1 1 Hums ninth in the long jump.
11:1511:30 10:15 8:45 11:00-11:10 10:30 a:30 
11:45 9:15 11:30-11:50 11:00 9:00 I Sailing is one of the few co-ed Taking team honors for the meet
I 12:1512:10 :~:~~ 9:45 12:00 11:30 9:30 sports on campus, and is open to was Indiana State, followed by 12:50 10:15 12:30-12:30 12:00 10:00 
I both Notre Dame and St. Mary's Eastern Illinois, Ball State, Purdue, 
1
11 45

I 1:30 ' 10:45 -1:10 10:30 women. Most of the women who University of Illinois, Eastern Ken­
2:10 11:15 -1:50 11:00 1 compete on the team are recruited tucky and Notre Dame. Next action I 11 :45 -2:30 11 :30 from the club roster and never for the team will Le April tenth at 
I 
12:15 12:00 sailed before coming to college. Ball State.
1 
12:30 ­
\ I=local V=goes to University Vlllage. e=express 11:!:;===========================~ 
~------------------------' 
Classified Ads 
WANTED Summer Rental5 4 bedroom, 5 Stereo for Sale: Sansui AU-7500 RUGBY SHIRTS -get the same DML 
bedroom hou5e, 1 bedroom apt. 3 Amp, Kenwood K T 6005 Tuner, shirts as the cheerleaders, in blue-­Happy Birthday from Rome. Wanted One 5mall regnqerator. bedroom apt. all furni5hed. Near Garrard Zero 92 turntable, Pioneer 3 gold, green-gold, & red-blue for Lisa and Barb c,,ll 4 410. NO. Very rea5onable. 234 2626. way speaker5. Call Frank, 234 6535. $13.00. Call Dave, 277-0948. 
Mr lssy ­I miss your bod, expecially your

Two girts need ride to Columbu5, 5 room house, two bedrooms for W aterbed King size double. $35. Morrissey Loan Closes Tues. Apr. 13. voluptuous golf hat!! 1need you .. 01110 for Ea5ter. Will 511are driving rent, ga5 furnace, garage, fire place, Call Frank. a656. All loans must be paid by then. -Cindy and$$. Call Anne, 4 5325 or Kathy, near NO, 1 block from St. Jo5eph Hours: 11:15-12:15. Call 7442, 8220 4 4202 Ho5pitat. 233-5991. NOTICES or 8105. To who it may concern: Jan1es J 
Ramenlol (alias Rammer) will take the 'plunge' on april 1Oth. Best

Need to leave early tor Easter break Summer hou5e5 and room5 for rent -Looking tor a place to get away on Typing $.35 a page. Call Dan, 
wishes? 

can you share a ride to either of real close to campu5. Furnished LA I< E M IC H IGA N. For rent :Lodge 272 5549. 
Rammer and Patty.

these places: Breezewood, Pa. exit, ridiculously reasonably. 233-2613 or and cabins during April and or May. Wasil. D.C., or Baltimore? Will 232 7263. Only 30 min. from campus: Gintaras Nominations tor SMC Class & hall Justinian T. Polyweeezuske, share money and drivinq. Call Mary Resort, 15a60 Lake Shore Rd. Union officers & student assembly open lm overjoyed about my article Ellen a098 Milliken Rentals, 282-20a9, 233 -Pier MiCI1. Te. 616 469-329a. Thursday, April 8. Platforms due to being accepted in your magazine. I 
5a33. House & apartments available Toom 29a LeMans by midnite 
do wish to request anew picture o1 a rhesus monkey as the one 1 have is

Need nde to Conn. or East Coast for June or Sept. HAVING A PARTY? For the lowest Wednesday, April 14. Queslions, too inane. 
area tor Easter break. Can leave prices on kegs & cases & free call Mindy, 4a49. 
K Mrat Lee Wed. or Thurs. Share driving and For Summer Rental: Super 4 bed­delivery, Call Dave, 277-0948. expenses. Call Sally, 1337. room tully furnished house near LOST & FOUND Miz Basara, Miz Basara, Jeff Eddy. Washer, dryer, all utili­Typing wanted: pick up & delivery, We preger EGGS and MARTINIS Ride needed lo Kalamazoo on April ties. $175. 234 1972. reasonable. 683-7159.. Lost: Female Irish setter. Call 
tor breakfast. lunch and dinner. Just get !he eggs from our favorite

Slh or 91h. Call Mary, 53a4. 287-5218. 
eggman, AI. If you can't find AI.

4 & 6 bedroom houses tor Sept. Will do typing, experienced. Term Godfrey will do! 
FOR RENT 1976. Good neighborhoods near ND, papers, manuscripts, etc. Call 233-Lost: 1 pr. of men's black framed reasonable rales.Contact Mr. Gallo, 8512. bifocals on campus. If found call 5 room house within walking dis 234 66a8. 8661. alter 5 pm call 232-3217. Driving to Los Angeles 4 15. Will share driving and expenses. Keith,
lance of NO. 233-6438. DC in an AC world? Gay Community Reward. 
234 2960 (Home), 237 269a (work).

3-IJedroom Duplex, also tour & six of Notre Dame. Hotline, 8a70, Fri. & 4,5,6 bedroom houses. Completely bedroom hOuses available for Sept. Sat. 8 10 pm. Or wrile Box 206. Lost: One large copper, brass, and furnished. Extremely nice. Real Completely furnished. Call 234--silver twist bracelet. Call Dill, 1470. To "Meester Bee!" Hessert ­close to campus. Sept. 1976, 9 9364. Last chance tor North Quad Seniors! All ~u·ve done for tv.o yrs. Is say 
month lease. 233 2613 or 232 7263 _ Call 7308 today tor dinner with PERSONALS hello ... You c<r~'t go oH to Iran and leave FOR SALE Senior Fellow Rocky Bleier. me this way-· Hurry up and make ~ur 
move.

For rent: 518 So. Falcon St. Com u. pletely furnished 6 room house. 3 For Sale: 1 Blue-Gold N D jacket. Accurate fast typing. Hours: a am to Too bad you couldn't dinkerin­The lb>mate bedroom, basement, drive in, and Real cheap. 287-5218. a pm. Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. 
naschphinkter, but take it from Ralph, Hectordinky, 10 seconds just
closed yard. $150 a monlh, plus Driving to Los Angeles 4-15. Will
isn't enough.
security and utilities. Call 233-4425. Dual 1229Q Changer -$180. Call STEREO COMPONENTS. 20 40 share expenses. Keith 234-2960
Bonhead 

Approved by Off Campus Housing. Len, 289-8990. Less than 1 yr. old percent discount. All quality name­P.S. Up your hose with an aard­excellent condition. brands. RMS Audio, 321 S. Main, vark's nose. For Ren I next school term: 5 288-1681. M F. 12:00 6 :0.0, .· I'M .. -.. . 
i~
Commitlee: the 
HI!'"'~' "''~?!./}--,

hedrooms -2 baths, all furnished -MUST SELL SONY TC-640B Reel-­An Tostal Keep 
show goin'
porch off street parking Near N D. lo-Reel and tapes. 287 0885. Linda's Letters. dissertations spe­
v·
(How's this,Opal?

9 month lease. 234-2626 cialists. typing at student rates, AN AD! ~~ ., 289 5193. 
:;.... 
12 the observer Friday, April 9, 197& 
George Kelly--man behind the Irish linebacking corps 
by Paul Stevenson nique, although I know I've been and the old have to improve.'' influenced by those I've coached During spring practice, Kelly 
George Kelly is the man behind under," Kelly commented. "I wants to find out how his lineback­the Irish linebacking corps. the think I have a combination of ers perform under the most diffi­foundation of the tenacious defense coaching styles, having worked cult situations. No real stunting is characteristic of Notre Dame. with five great coaches, those done, the linebackers play what is 
Kelly came to Notre Dame from greats being Johnny Drews. Liz called a "flat" defense. The player the Medical Cor,,s. during which Blackburn, Bob Devaney, and of must be responsible for his own time he had played in the backfield course Ara and Dan." performance, working on his own, of his service team. Upon moving and not with the aid of stunting.
Kelly has trained many excellent to Notre Dame. Kelly was changed 
linebackers in his years at Notre Kelly feels that all his years at to guard. He played during the Dame. "Of all the linebackers I've Notre Dame have been rewarding.reign of Frank Leahy, and gradua­
coached. I think Drew Mahalic 
''There is no particular season
ted in 1953. came the furthest,'' Kelly re­
that ,-·as necessarily the best, all of 
After. graduating. Kelly served marked. "In high school. Mahalic 
them have been gratifying, andi've 
as assistant football coach at St. was a quarterback, and he had to 
been lucky to have been able to 
Joseph high school. After two years learn a completely different posit­
work with such great kids," Kelly 
as an assistant, he was appointed ion in coming here. Greg Collins 
said. "I think 1973 was a great
to the head coaching position. was also phenomenal and I am 
year, but of course you enjoy it 
happy to have had the chance to
Kelly moved onto Marquette when you win the national title. In 
work with both of them.''
after a·three year period as St. Joe 1973, we didn't necessarily have head coach. At Marquette, he This year. Kelly has his work cut our best group of kids, it's just that served four years under Johnny out for him in building a starting they all played hard and well." 
that. to the position I hold here at Kelly has been leading the IrishDrews. Ncbniska was Kelly's next linebacker staff. 

Kelly has been offered head Notre Dame," Kelly mentioned. linebackers for seven years now,stop. which was to last nine years, "Right now things are in a state coaching positions at other schools, "A head coaching title is great just and hopefully he will ·be around before coming to Notre Dame in of flux." Kelly stated. "Most of our but he docsn 't feel that that is a to build the ego. and I don't need many more, enhancing Notre 1969. 
players are · inexperienced. and step up. "A head coaching job that when I'm at a university with Dame's pride in their stalwart 
Kelly has a coaching style which Doug Becker lost experience due to somewhere else is only parallel. if prestige like Notre Dame." rlcfcnsc. is uniquely his own. although being injuries last year. The team has influenced b~· some of the great some growing up to do, but by names he has coached under. Easter. everything should be get­
Bookstore basketball opens 
"!would like to think that I have ting settled with regard to posi­developed my own coaching tech-tions. Now. the young have to learn 
by Rich Odioso day Bill Laimbeer's Poseidon Ad­beating the Kansas Twisters 21-1 S. venture set a bookstore record Elimination playing with two girls 
The Fifth annual Iron Man Five using only 12 minutes to eliminate plus Monte Towle still managed to Bookstore Basketball Tournament MtAtStH Klangers 21-4. The beat the three-girl Twisters despite got under way yesterday with 32 towering Laimbeer scored 8 bas­a bravura performance by J .J. games as 256 teams began the kets. 6 via the dunk route. DeCoursey.
*ObServer 
chase for the coveted title. Bernard Rencher pumped in 12 The Cunning Linguists rose up "I would say that there arc three baskets. one short of Duck Wil­and defeated Thanks for the Mam­
teams that have to be regarded as liams single game record as the maries 21-11. Kardiac S IV got favorites," says Tim Bourret, head Skidders out-fought the Jazzmen their fourth and final year off to a of the event who has spent count­21-15. good start smoking the Dokcrs Ill less hours analyzing the strengths Jeff Carpenter was out with an 21-11. Preperation H and the 4 
and weaknesses of the respective ailing ankle but his Apprentices Hemorroids were hurting as Les teams. "I like TILCS II with Dave made a joke out of the Court Tctcs De Merde stung them 21-S. Batton which went to the Elite Jesters 21-9. Another injury sent Scott Mav and the Others Will Eight last year before falling to the Rich "The Rock" Roseman hob­won't, th~y were scooped by the Average White Team. The TILCS bling to the sidelines with the score Poop Shooters 22-20. could be stronger with the addition 1-0 against his team, Monty Python 32 more games are slated for of John Dubcnetzkv from last and the Holy Hoop but playing with today. Sundav. Bookstore honcho 
Sports 
Selmon first in NFL draft; 
year's title team, 31 Club." only four players Python carved the Bou~rct has .slated a Bookstore "But Average White Team is Ducks 21-16. Bonanza featuring in successiveIrish's Niehaus second back also and they want to win the Reduced to Bookstore competi­appearances starting at 2 p.m. ­title that so narro~ly escaped them tion, Dick Motta's Chicago Bulls Poseidon Adventure. Nardo's Sk­NEW YORK (AP) -Running ncr Archie Griffin of Ohio State was last year. They have Bill Paterno, met a typical fate being blown up idders, Average White Team, SW­
backs dominated the opening rou­the sixth and final running back Pat Pohlen, Kurt Horton and the 21-3 by Spoon and the Ballons. AT. Tiles II, and Firin Myron and nd of the National Football League chosen in the first round, drafted tourney's biggest and best gunner First Round Elimination was not. the Fat A's. draft Thursdav and Leroy and by Cincinnati. He was the 24th Kevin Doherty. They've added a 
Dewey Selmon: Oklahoma's All-A­player selected. total unknown Ryan Sullivan and 
Purdue tennis feasts on 

merican brother act, both were they'll rise or fall on his ability." he
Tampa Bay chose Selmon quick­

picked by the expansionist Tampa said.
ly, then introduced the huge Okla­
ND, SMC season openers

Bay Bucaneers. "I also like SWAT with Luther
homa tackle, complete with a 
Bradley. Toby Knight and Danny
Leroy Selmon was the draft's No. Buccaneers· uniform shirt equip­bJ Eileen O'GradJ by Patti Ruocco
Knott." Bourret said. "Knott has
I selection, then Tampa reunited ped with his name and the number Women's Sports Editor 
a bad leg though. and this could
the brothers by selecting Dewey as I to indicate his draft position. 
St. Mary's tennis team coach

hurt them."
the final choice of the draft's 
Although Notre Dame lost their Mark Peterson was pleasantly sur­
"Being chosen No. 1 has to be 

This is not to say that Bourret is
second round. first match of the season to second prised with the team's performance
the highlight of my college ca­predicting a winner from theseAfter Tampa opened the draft by reer." said Selmon. "Playing for ranked Purdue 2-7, coach Carole against the number two state
three teams as the tourney has
picking Leroy. Seattle. the NFL's an expansion team will be a good Moore commended the team's Purdue team last Saturday.
known throughout the years for itsother expansion club, picked an­experience. There's a lot of work efforts. Although the team lost the home
upsets. Out of the last four years a 
other defensive lineman. Steve "Considering the little practice match 6-3 to Purdue, this score is a
involved. but that's what life is all 
varsity basketball player the prc­
Niehaus of Notre Dame. Then the time, because of problems with the marked improvement over last
about." 
cceding season has never been on
runner<; took over, with a halfdozen weather and the ACC. I reallv was fall's 8-1 loss to the same Purdue
Tampa Coach John McKay of the winning team. "Every varsity
of them chosen through the re­pleased with the showing against team.
player has declared a team so far
Tampa said Selmon will "be the
mainder of the first round. Purdue and the closeness of the set "I think they gave a tremen­
but the 3 D's-Duck, Dice and
cornerstone of our defensive line 
scores." she said. dously good showing," commented

Among the quality rushers pick­Dantley. Like Andy Messersmith
for many years to come." 
In singles competition. captain Peterson. "They'd been badly

ed yuil'kly were Chuck Muncie of they arc free agents and could join 
While Tampa was celebrating Bctsv Fallon won her match in the beaten last fall but going into the
California. who went to New Or­an unsung team at any time to
the Selmon selection, Seattle used top seed position, 6-4. 6-3. Jane doubles this time they had a good
leans: Oklahoma's Joe Washing­swing the balance of the tourney."
almost all of its IS-minute allot­Lammers. returning to the team chance at upsetting them (Purdue).
ton. selected by San Diego: Mike Bourret has divided the tourney
ment before making Niehaus the after missing last season, also won It definitely was a major improve­
Pruitt of Purdue, drafted by Cleve­into four regionals and sixteen
draft's No. 2 pick. her match in fourth singles, 6-2. ment."
land: Bubba Bean of Texas A&M. sectionals but taking a page from 
6-2. Individual player scoring fromwho went to Atlanta. and Lawrence "We feel we have an excellent the NHL. "After we have the 

In other singles matches. Kam top seed to sixth ran as follows:Gaines of Wyoming. picked by football player," said Seattle Coach sectional champions I'll throw the Amato lost in second singles, 2-6. Barb Timm (SMC) upset MarieDetroit. All of them went in the Jack Patera. "He was our top rated regional concept out the window. 

1-6. Carol Simmons was also Tropsich no. I Indiana State college draft·., fir'>I 16 selections. pick. He moves very quickly off the We have a lot of scheduling defeated playing third singles 4-6, champ 2-6, 6-4, 6-4; Louise PurcellTwo-time Heisman Trophy win-ball with excellent pursuit." problems due to spring football," 

2-6. (SMC) lost to Polly Hannas 6-2,

explains Bourret rather lamely.
New Orleans took almost as long Fallon and Lammers were not as 4-6, 6-3 in one of the many close
In opening round action yester-
Irish nine home as Seattle before going for Muncie. successful in doubles play. The matches: Susan Tyrell lost to Tery who was regarded as the nation's pair, playing first doubles, lost 4-6, Finnegin 6-2, 4-6, 6-3; SMC captain for weekend tilts best running back by most pro Women 's athletic 4-6. Notre Dame's two other doub­Lynn Griffin lost to Susan Pomplin observers. Then San Diego fol­les teams, Ellen Callahan and Marv 7-6, 6-2; SMC's Maura Finneran 
The Irish baseball team has a b~nquet April 21
lowed with another running back, Shukis, and Diane Shillingburg and won against Pam Rogers 6-3, 7-6.busy weekend slated with five choosing Washington, a teammate Women's Athletics will sponsor Kam Amato also lost their Doubles scoring also reflected games scheduled. Notre Dame of Selmon's at Oklahoma. an awards banquet Tuesday night matches. closelv played matches: Marie "" 11 be at Bradley to meet the April 21. The banquet will be held Ironically, Notre Dame was more Tropsich and Polly Hannas, Pur­
New England then used the first 

Br·aves, 6-6 on the season in a in the faculty dining lounge of the 
successful.in exhibition play, win­due's first and second playersof its three-opening round choices

sit.gle game today and a double­South Dining Hall at 6 PM. 
ning four of the six matches. beat Barb Timm and Kelee Brog­to draft defensive back Mike Hay­header Saturday. 

The banquet will honor partici­
Sue Flanigan won 3-6, 6-4. 6-4. ger 6-4, 6-4. SMC's Sheila Fin­nes of Arizona State. The Patriots'

Sunday the Irish return to home pants, founders and all those who 
playing ninth singles. Diane Shil­neran and Louise Purcell counteredother first-round choices were cen­

to host Toledo,. The Rockets had an have helped support Women's lingburg also won in the eleventh this loss by beating Terry Finnegin ter Pete Brock from Colorado and
exceptional spring trip and stood Athletics. 
singles slot 6-2. 2-6, 7-S. and Pam Rogers 6-2. 4-6, 6-3. The

defensive back Tim Fox of Ohio
9-3 earlier in the week. Toledo has Guests should buy their tickets Both Notre Dame's doubles final match saw Purdue as victorState.
a fine pitching staff and will from hall representatives by Friday teams, Debbie Grady and Sue when Mary Ann Shurig and Susanprovide Notre Dame with its stern­The next pick belonged to the April 9. All others interested Bailey. and Anne Keily and Sue Pomplin beat Karen Midock and est test of the Northern schedule so New York Jets and home team should contact chairperson Mary Flanigan won in three sets. Jean Barton of SMC.
far. The I p.m. start will also anticipation buzzed through the Spaulding, 7907, or the Women's 
The Irish will next take on St. St. Mary's will meet Notre Dame feature the debut of Notre Dame's packed gallery where fans watched Athletic Department, 2163, for Mary's, this Sunday at 10 a.m. on this Sunday at 10 AM on the SMC new electronic scoreboard. the draft procedure. more information. 

the SMC courts. courts. 









