
Mock Convention '76 
Delegates pass busing, pro-life platform 
by Phil CackJey racial balance in schools. except for the ban of all "Saturday plank, and was not the main did not expect the bill to pass at the Senior Staff Reporter Other actions included the night special" handguns. Bitter proposal submitted by the platform beginning of the night, but as the 
In a surprise move last night, the adopting of a pro-life abortion debate on the issue had been committee. The delegates, in· evening went on support was delegates to the Mock Political plank by a majority of 2 to I, the expected by some observers. effect, were reversing the decision picked up unexpectedly. Convention favored a minority acceptance of a women's rights In addition. a major change was of the committee by voting for the "Wc were going to go down plank calling for busing to achieve plank with an amendment calling made in the health care plank. The minority plank. lContinued on page 4)
for passage of the Equal Rights more liberal minority plank was There was much debate on the Amendment (ERA) and the adop­adopted in place of a more conser­busing issue with speakers for and tion pro-gun control plank. vative majority plank. against the matter speaking. The 
The delegates worked on the Twenty-four planks were voted entire debate continued for an platform in a marathon convention on last night, completing the hour. session lasting from 7 p.m. Thurs­approval of the platform and bring­Delegates disatisfied with the day until3:30 a.m. Friday morning. ing the total number of planks to lack of a roll-call vote continued to 
The abortion vote came on the 34. Ten other planks were passed protest throughout the rest of the only roll-call vote of the evening Wednesday night. evening. and was a surprise to few people. The final decision over whether
Busing decision confused 
The pro-life. majority plank which to hold a roll-call vote on the matter was accepted was passed by the The busing decision came fol­was the final matter of business. same margin in the platform com­lowing a highly confused vote in At 3:30a.m. the delegates voted to 
[
mittee. which there were two separate calls adjourn due to lack of a quorum, The women's rights plank was for a roll-call vote, delegates felt and this move removed the possi­
-
~-
changed to call for the passage of that the plurality the busing sup­bility of a reconsideration of the: .. the ERA. The original proposal porters had would disappear in a matter. passed by the committee had roll-call vote, which is conducted by Chuck Wilson, chairman of the 
~ ' struck the reference to the ERA. percentages in the state delega­Black Caucus, commented after­The gun control issue was very tions. wards "We're very happy, athough let me make this... subdued. with no major changes, The busing plank was a minority a little surprised.'' Wilson said he perfectly clear! 

---! 

untversily of notre dome st mary's college Vol. X, No. 100 Friday, March 5, 197& 
"Good feelings" pervaded last night's marathon session of the Mock Convention at Stepan Center. (Photo by Mark Ricca) 
Era of Good Feeling-­Mock Convention '76 
One spectator, Jay Kane, saidby Bob Brink that the convention was goingStaff Reporter pretty well. "I think there's a lot of 
Red, white and blue signs bear­enthusiasm in here,'' he noted. ing campaign slogans of past Another spectator said of the presidential elections, interspersed convention, "It's really great. I with posters of this year's democra­think what we're doing here is very tic presidential hopefuls, decorate important.'' the walls of Stepan Center. Many 
Bicentennial decorations of the past slogans are familiar to The good feeling of the activitiesall, such as "All the Way with was only heightened by the decor­LBJ" or "True man Truman,' or ations of Stepan Center. Every­''Reorder priorities--McGovern in thing--the signs, the refreshment1972." Others beg votes for stand, the balloons which either laycandidates long since forgotten, popped on the floor, still tied to justsuch as "Seymour-Blair 1868," or about anything, or stuck on Step­"Winfield S. Hancock for Presi­an's ceiling--is Bicentennial red,dent--1880." 
white and blue.
But there is one sign which Behind the speaker's platform is seems not only to describe its a huge American Flag. Covering ahistorical period, but also to convey secretary's desk on the platform is the mood of this year's Mock a I00 year old flag made for theConvention. That sign is "Era of \876 Centennial. A copy of aGood Feeling--Monroe 1816." For revolutionary flag, it is red andif a single mood predominated in white striped, has a picture of aStepan last night it was that of snake on it, with the slogan "Don't"good feeling." 
Tread on Me" at the bottom.
Both delegates and spectators Prior to the start of the activitiesattested to this. Tom Dougherty, a a jazz band provided entertainmentdelegate from Idaho, commented for the crowd. At the back ofabout the convention, "It's great. 
Stepan campaign headquarters forThere's a lot of excitement here. 
such candidates as Shapp, Jackson, I'm looking forward to Friday and Kennedy, Udall, Bayh, Carter,Saturday nights." And another Wallace, and Humphrey provideddelegate, Tim O'Reiley of Cali­literature about the candidates for fornia, said, "I'm having fun. 
delegate& and spectators. 
Some of these people are funny to watch, they're getting so serious." (Continued on page 5) 
Riegle:"We need new leadership, This nation of ours is in trouble" 
American people and manipulating Mention of the former presidentby Margie Irr the economy. triggered an attack by Riegle on hisAss't St. Mary's Editor 
''This country of ours is in recent trip to China. "I think it's a trouble, make no mistake about it. disgrace that this man went to"We desperately need a new President Ford and propaganda China. This man should be in jail.
president of the United States and machine in his administration are And what did Ford say about it?
that's our first order of business," out to convince everyone that Who is really pullin_g the strin,gs onsaid Congressman Donald Riegle in everything is alright. The rate of foreign policy," Riegle asked. 
his keynote address at last night's 
unemployment in this country is 8
Mock National Convention at Ste­Turning to the Mock Convention 
pan Center. per cent. There is no excuse for platform, the congressman dis­The convention, made up mostly cussed senior citizens and seniority 
this," he stressed. Riegle accused the present ad­
of the state delegates, numbered and congress. "I've read the 
approximately 500. They showed ministration of creating the reces­platform and I generally agree with 
their support in three standing sion for its own purposes. "This it. I'm going to suggest something 
ovations and several rounds of administration in Washington has that I think is very crucial and 
applause during the thirty minute planned this recession. And this is something that I'd do first if were 
speech. a planned recession, make no president of the United States," he 
mistake about it. People. are out of
Riegle, from Flint, Michigan said. 
represents the Seventh Congres­work today as a result of a very Riegle explained the problem of 
specific and delibrate national "senior citizens who are afraid to policy," Riegle maintained.
sional District. He b~gan his 
congressional career in 1966 as a heat their homes because they 
Republican After being re-elected "The administration is trying can't pay the light bills." He 
now to drive the interest rate
in each subsequent election, Riegle related is experience riding a 
down--creating phony prosperity "meals on wheels" truck. "These
changes his party affiliation to ·Democrat in 1973. He was people probably wouldn't be eating
just before election time. It's 
happening now and it happened otherwise. For us to allow this tn back in 1972 when Nixon was re-elected again in 1974. 
Riegle stated that the United (Continued on page 9)re-elected," he added.
States needs to see a change in 
leadership in the Congress and in 
the Executive. "We need new 
leadership, better leadership in the 
United States Congress,'' Riegle 
emphasized. 
Riegle described the effect that 
disloyal party members have on 
important legislation. The Jobs 
Bill, which Riegle said "was es­
sential to put people back to work," 
was vetoed by President Ford. The 
vote to override that veto was 
defeated by three votes. "Nine 
democratic senators voted against 
the party, against the Jobs Bill. 
We need new leadership,'' Riegle 
re-emphasized. 
An opening for new leadership, 
Riegle noted, was coming up with 
Mike Mansfield's retirement from 
the senate. "I happen to be a 
person who has great personal 
regard for Senator Birch Bayh. I'd 
like to see some of that leadership 
given to Birch Bayh," he said. 
Riegle told the audience that the 
convention must take the important 
issues of debate out into the 
streets. He criticized the Ford 
administration for deceiving the 

2 the observe:.._r_____F_r_id_a....:..y.:....'_M_a_rc_h_5_:_,_1_97_6 
,___Qn Campus Toda!J'­
friday, march 5 
, 3:30pm --colloquium, by kurt baier, prof. of philosophy, univ. of pittsburgh, library lounge 
4 pm award ceremony, gov. bowen wi II present st. mary's college with an award of recognition as a 
bicentennial  college  in  the  michiana  area,  
stapleton lounge  
4:30  colloquium,  "some special  1Z  extensions,"  by  
prof.  joseph  carroll,  univ.  of  wise.,  rm  226,  

computer center 
5:15pm mass, mass and dinner, bulla shed 
mock political convention, se. gary hart (d-colo.) followed by nominations and elections, stepan center 
7:15pm 

8 pm drama, "the crucibule," o'laughlin auditorium 
10 pm-1 am st. mary's coffeehouse, mike richter at 10, terry rnchale & friends at 11; rich spangler at 12 
12:15 am nocturne night flight, george, the friendly 
mainstream, wsnd 88.9 am, the best in jazz saturday, march 6 
mock political convention, congressman john1 pm brademas (d-ind.) followed by sen. patrick Ieahy (d-vt.) 
2:30-6 pm moot court, coffee hour with the judges, open to the pubIic, law school lounge 
7 pm moot court, moot court competition, former supreme court justice tom clark, chief justice edward hennessey, mass. supreme judicial court and chief justice thomas fairchild, 7th circuit court, chicago, library aud 
8 pm drama, "the crucible," o'laughlin aud 
8 pm moot court, final arguments, library aud 
9 pm mock political convention, convention ball open to all members of nd community, stepan center 
J pm waltz party, sponsored by nd chapel choir, Iafortune ballroom, tix $1.50 available at the door 
10 pm-1 amnazz, rex delcamp, mike isubota, anne moriarty, mike blanford at 10, joe bauer at 11, george adello at 12 
12:15 am nocturne night flight, tonight's host: jorge lopez, 
wsnd 88.9 fm sunday, march 7 3 pm bicentennial festival and conference, bicentennial 
patriotic concert and dramatic readings, univer­sity band, orchestra and jazz band, with the keynote address by sen. william proxmire of 
~-----------w~i•s•c•..•a~c~c-a~r-e~n~a~-:;;::::::::::::::::::::::~1 
Special preachers *The Observer 

set for Sundays 
On the five Sundays of Lent, starting this Sunday, the homilies at the 10:45 liturgy will be given by a special series of preachers, 
members of  the  Department  of  
Theology.  The  homilies  will  be  
related  to  a  common  theme  of  

conversion and reconcilation and are intended to assist a better theological and spiritual under­stan_,.-~ of the new Rite of Pen<. ~· 
Th elebrant -homilists for the 
1:45 liturgy on these Sundays of Lent will be: Mar. 7, Fr. Edward Kilmartin, S.J.; Mar. 14, Fr. John Gallen. S.J.; Mar. 21, Fr. David R11rrell. C.S.C.; Mar. 28, Fr. Mark ~earle. O.F.M.; and Apr. 4, Fr. John Dunne, C.S.C. 
Night Editor: Dan Sanchez Asst. Night Editors: Joseph L. 
Bauer  and  Thomas  O'Neil  
Layout  Staff:  Frank  Kebe  
Anne  Reilly,  Mary  
Janca  (Emeritus)  and  Bob  

Brink Day Editor: Kathy McEntee Copy Readers: Mary Egan, 
Fred Herbst and Fred 
deJavanne Editorial Page: Jim Eder Features Page: Val Zurblis 

Spor:ts Page: Fred Herbst Typ•sts: Marie McCarthy, Morey Blinder, Camille Arneh, Mary Tobin 
Night Controller: Martha Fanning, 

The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during the exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be ~_JUrchased for $18 ($10 per semester) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, 
lndoana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 


'""~.rocK Ho= I 
~~~-''II~· 
..... l'il. 

w..oter Matthau & GeoptBurns •Ne~ S<nons 'The Sunshine ao,.. . , .•.•R.:harq_8er1jall1on ~Acfi\~ 
WEEK DAYS · 7 :00·9 :10 

WEEKDAYS . 7 :30-9 :20 SAT. SUN .. 1 :20·3 :20-5:20 
SAT.SUN. · 7:15-9:20 7:35-9:45 P.M. 
(ONE KIDDIE MATINEE) 

~~STON'S111B man Who Would BB 
In Hearst trial 

Damaging evidence is admitted 
SAN FRANCISCO AP-The judge in the Patricia Hearst trial today rejected a defense bid to suppress incriminating evidence against the heiress taken from the last hideout of her terrorist traveling compan­ions. 
U.S. District Court Judge Oliver 
J. Carter ruled in a written memo­randum that Miss Hearst could not protest the use of documents taken from the home of Symbionese Liberation Army members William and Emily Harris. 
Carter ruled the heiress had "no possessory interest" in the docu­pons found in the Harrses' apart­ment. 
The most damaging item already introduced is hte so-called "Tania Interview," a manuscript the gov­ernment claims shows Miss Hearst embraced the revolutionary goals of the SLA. 
Carter made his ruling after listening to arguments from gov­vernment and defense attorneys. However, he later ruled that one of the disputed documents -a floor plan of a Sacramento bank ap­parently targeted for robbery ­must be suppressed because it might give jurors a false impres­sion that Miss Hearst is charged with a homocide at a different Sacramento bank. 
Among items not yet placed inot evidence is a diagram for the unrealized Sacramento bank robbry and a "laundry list" which U.S. Atty. James L. Browning said was a guide of what to do when robbing a bank. The government says some 
of  these  items  contain  Miss  
Hearst's  fingerprints  and  hand­ 
writing  


ments since she testified she never 
THE CRUCIBLE
visited the Harris house. 
~-No· 

The material challenged by the 
Arthur Miller's powerful drama
defense included more than 1,000 
examining events surrounding
documents, notebooks and wea-
SMC 

the Salem witd1 hunts. 
New cheerleading ~-THE AT R E Mar. 4, 5, 6 
squad tryouts set 
Tryouts for the 1976-77 Univer­sity of Notre Dame Cheerleading Squad will be held the week of April 4-9, according to outgoing captain, Mary Ann Grabavoy. 
Any freshman, sophomore or junior from either Notre Dame or St. Mary's College is eligible to fill the five male and five female positions on the squad, provided they attend the mandatory session on Sunday, April 4. 
Tryouts for the leprechaun mas­cot will be held simultaneously. Those trying out for this position must be male undergraduates at Notre Dame and under the height of5'7". 
An organizational meeting for all those interested in trying out wilJ be held prior to the week of April 4. although a specific date has not yet been announced. The require­ments, rules and specifics will be discussed at this meeting. 
Anyone having questions that must be answered before this meeting is asked to contact Graba­voy at 283-7819. Questions con­cerning the position of leprechaun 
•uld be referred to Pat Murphy, . present mascot, at 283-1546. 
at 8:00 P.M. 
All Seats 52.00 

OlAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
\Std Fac. S 1.50) 
(St. Mary's)
Alone: 284 417 6 
• 


''STUDENT NIGHT'' BOWLING 
EVERY THURSDAY AFTER 9:00P.M. AT 
• 






REGAL LANES 
$.50 per game 
·PLUS ENTERTAINMENT FOR YOUR LISTENING g DANCING PLEASURE :
•
•
•
THIS WEEKEND nNIGHT TIDE" 
.. 
---~-----~~--­ ----­ 
Friday, March 5, 1976  the observer  3  

Faculty told of bargaining benefits j
by Terry Keeney "The biggest question is how are satd. faculty unions is that they might to sign designation cards expres­
,
Editor-In-Chief these groups going to settle into Faculty governance endanger the professionalism of sing support for a union. The their roles?" he said. If newly the college faculty. National Labor Relations Board is
Faculty unions have tended to
Faculty collective bargaining has formed unions seek merely to ''The true test of collective then called in to negotiate the 
tended to preserve academic free­improve the role of the faculty to
exercise power, the entire profes­bargaining is what it does to our terms. of the collective bargaining
dom and good faith relations sion may suffer. decide faculty matters only at professionalism. Will it reduce the unit with faculty and administra­institutions with a tradition of weak
between faculty and administration "Collective bargaining doesn't faculty to the status of em-tors. • 
without harming the professional­ism of teaching, Joseph Schwartz said last night. 
Schwartz, associate secretary of the American Association of Uni· versity Professors (AAUP), said that faculty unions have been most beneficial to the "downtrodden" faculty. 
"Some institutions have gained enormously,'' Schwartz said. "Others have been ripped off. On balance collective bargaining has been good for the profession as it is.'' 
Schwartz told an audience of 30 faculty members at the University Club that faculty unions have had different effects at different uni­versities. What often determines the effect on an institution is not the union itself, but how adminis­trators and faculty respond to their new roles. 
lead to an unprofessional end. It's what you do with it," said Sch­wartz. 
Effect on academic freedom 
Schwartz argued that academic freedom and tenure have been neither diminished nor enhanced as a result of faculty unions. 
He cited the unique case of the Universtiy of Hawaii in which a propoal to limit tenure was made part of a collective bargaining agreement. The proposal was later rejected overwhelmingly by the entire faculty and the collective bargaining unit was replaced. 
Schwartz could cite no instances where academic freedom was en· hanced because of unionization. "I think it's a misrepresentation of reality that a set of principles can be changed by the bargainers," he 

The bikes were waiting, but only a few owners showed up to claim them yesterday. Bicycles will be released again from 1:30 to 4:15 pm, on Thursday, March 11, at Gate 14 of the Stadium. (Photo by Mark Ricca) 
Judicial Board proposes guidelines for hall boards 
by Mary Mungovan 
Senior Staff Reporter 

The University Judicial Board proposed guidelines to standardize the procedure of hall judicial boards, John Lonsberg, judicial coordinator, announced Wednes­day after a closed meeting. 
The Judicial Board, which con­sists of six students, six faculty and six administration members, sug­gested guidelines for the jurisdic­tion, due process, ethical standards and appeal procedures of the hall judicial boards. 
"The Board's recommendations arc based on a proposal submitted last year by Dr. Ackerman," Lonsbcrg stated. "They're not designed to make all J-Boards identical or to limit their autonomy, but to insure that in each hall the J -board is functionally adequate and observes due process." 
The Board's report will be sub­mitted to the Student Life council for approval and then distributed to hall J-boards after break, according to Lonsbcrg. "Our goal is to parallel the University judicial sys­tem on the hall level." he added. 
If a student commits a Universityviolation, such as persistent pariet­
~~o~~~o~~::~c~r~gh~~~i~~ ~~ ~~sa~ 
of Students James Roemer or by six members (three students, three faculty or administration members) of the 18-member University Jud­
icial Board. 
"Students have shown much confidence in Dean Roemer this year--the University Judicial Board has not yet been asked to meet," 
Lonsberg noted. 
If unsatisfied with the decision, 
the student can appeal to the 
University Appeals Board (three 
members: one student, one faculty 
. · · b )

and one admtmstratlon mem er · 
H. fi 1 t' · t peal to Fr
IS. na ,Qp ton ts o ap . · 
, ••. ~ . . , ~ . . .Jr ~ .. 
c erman_ pro_posa . ~
•: •.t.•:,','·'t~,:·,' ..',\!ww~\-,,... ,.·J.·.~,..·._':',..•:,~.• ~;. ,~l~\M~. :~.-~~ .._._·: ·..~ . ·._..., 't •• 
Theodore Hesburgh, University president. 
If a student commits a hall violation, the offense is heard by the rector or hall board. 
"Ideally, the student should have a choice," Lonsberg com­mented. "All 20 halls have J-boards in some form, with the average size somewhere between 10 and 20 members. Most boards hear one or two cases a year." 
The judicial board system at Notre Dame was begun in the late sixties, Lonsberg explained. Ini­tially they were used quite often, but in the last few years rectors have lost cofidence in their ability to handle problems," Lonsberg added. 
Brian McGinney, last year's judicial coordinator, conducted a survey which demonstrated "the need for improving the J-board situation in the halls," according to Lonsbcrg. "This year, we've attempted to make halls more aware of their potential," he co'ltinued. 
"If alcohol and parietal viola­tions arc ever to become hall 
offenses, the hall J-boards must 

~~~~:t~~i~seh i~e;;l~~~v;sp:~~le~~>~ 
he emphasized. 
Mary Ellen Keenan, assistant judicial coordinator, was not pres­ent at the meeting. Both coordin­
ators advise hall boards and stu­dents. They are also responsible for nominating Judicial and Ap­peals Board members, subject to approval by •the SLC. Michael Gassman, current Student Body President has not yet appointed
their successors. Lonsberg ·expressed "great ap­predation to the Judicial Board whose identities cannot be reveal-
d "" th · ff t · · · th 
c 10r etr e or s tn revtstng e
A k · · ,
1 :, , , , , ·, , , • 
-, j·...•. 

governance, Schwartz argued. 
ployees?" Schwartz asked. 

Collective bargaining has minimal At colleges, Schwartz noted,impact where the tradition of faculty members are treated mere-faculty governance is strong. 
ly as employees and not with "In somc,places, especially where professional respect, collective the inadequacy of the (faculty) bargaining cannot hurt. At more senate was one of the proximate 
" mature" institutions faculty 
causes of bargaining in the first unions have "added new dignity to place, it has tended to weaken it 
the _profession,'' Schwartz said. 
further," Schwartz said. "Where To form a faculty union a groupthe senates are strong, they remain must get 30 percent of the faculty strong under collective bar· gaining." 


i··tiMM·p·iRrY·s·ralfE···!
Effect on salaries 
!OPEN : MON-SAT 9am-11pm!
The prime reason faculties today move toward unions is for money, • •
: SUNDAY 12noon 11 pm :
not for an increase in faculty power. Although the ability of 

! COLD BEER,WINE, LIQUOR, !
unions to increase salaries may be marginal, unions increase the role 
i GORMET FOODS i
of faculty in the budget-making process. ! 3114 S. 11 St. NILES, MICHIGAN: 
''The most important effect of 
• "BIGGEST LITTLE :
collective bargaining is that the faculty develops much clearer ac­• LinuoR STnRJ:" IN MTrJ-tTt':.ll N" • 
cess to the budget-making pro-···•••••1f••••••••••ireeleel1ee&\Y~I'~'''~•••••~ ce~~~~~~~zwa~~~z nS:/~ci that collecti~ef--]-;::~:---_F_A_L_L-IN_G_-0-Rt 
bargammg has produced no evt-f 1 '-' dent_loss of collegiality or good A r THINNING t 
relations among faculty and ad-' "' ' A ministrators. ' ~
e ' 
He said, "The mere fact of' C HAIR? t 
collective bargaining doesn't lead A !" • to replacement of naked power for I t 
elegant reasoning." Just another employee? Schwartz noted one danger of 
BA~ERS & HAIRSTYLISTS 
FULl. SERVICE UNISEX SHOP 
ROCCO'S ROCCO'S ROCCO'S ROCCO'S


531 N. Midligan233-4957ROCCO'S 
The faculty then conducts a referendum to determine whether to accept the bargaining unit. At most universities the collective bargaining unit is either the AAUP, the American Federation of Teach­ers or the National Education Association. 
If a majority of the faculty voting favor the bargaining agreement, it is accepted. 

, f  Before it's too late ­1A  
A '  HAVE A SERIES OF ELEC-per treatment TRlCAL SCALP TREATMENTS  ' ~  
~  THAT  CAN  REVIVE  DYING  A  

*Not recommended HAIR ROOTS BY INCREASED' 
BLOOD CIRCULATION. A 

tfor high blood preSSUre RESULTS DETERMINED BY ' 
INDIVIDUAL RESPONSE. t

'f or heart patients. I ~ ~~ See LYNN by appt only~ 
t  ~ntKvt~  
ttf  54533 TERRACE LANE Tues.. Wed., Sat. 8:30 . 5:30, Thurs. & Fri. 8:30-8:30  
,  PHONE 277 -1691  

~~~.._.~.._..._.~~~~~ 

-~fr-"'~-';\ t 
:  -;:  .  "\\  t  
·  A  
'  
f  



Scottsdale. 
MIAMI & IRELAND RDS SOUTH BEND 291-4183 
PLUS MORE TO BE ANNOUNCED 
IN CONCERT Sunday March 28 ACC 
Tickets go on sale at ACC and Student Union $6 & $5 Student Union & Sunshine Promotions 
~ ..... ,.,... • _,...._..,.. • ·.,·-• .,, ... _,_ • l r ...,.,. .. ..-,.... ,. ,. "''"" _. 
--~ --~-­

r 4 the observer Friday, March 5, 1976 
I 




L Tricksters fool SMC seniors with hoax letters 
~ 
by Mary Egan r Senior Staff Reporter 
A group of six students sent joke letters to some sehiors last Friday,
f which stated they were "two credit hours short of the graduation requirement.'' The letters suggested the recip­ients "take immediate action" and add the credits or else be unquali­fied "to graduate with your class this May." Besides being written on stolen stationery, the letters contained the forged signature of Gail P. Man­dell, the assistant to the vice president for academic affairs. Mandel termed the joke "silly." She said: "It's a terrible thing to forge someone's signature to per­petrate a practical joke. It's senseless under those circumstan­ces. The administrative assistant took "no official action" towards the studenjs, w49 lll'olo_gi.~~d to Man­dell. She felt none seemed necessary. ''The students were extremely contrite. They hadn't given it much thought. They realized the full implications only a~ter they had done it," she said. · Mandell felt the ruse "under­mines the trust that has to exist in any community, particularly an academic community." She continued, ''The only thing that stops people from ruining tbe trust is their own integrity and common sense." Mandell feels that if these things fail it is possible to get a bad scare. It took a whole day of Mandell's time to straighten out the letter's repercussions. She had to explain­to students that she had not sent the letter and that they were not in 
Busing, abortion important planks 
(Continued from page 1) fighting" he said, "but as tt turned out we came out ahead." Wilson pointed out that the platform com­
mittee passed the majority, anti­busing plank unanimously and that the delegates are somewaht con­servative. He praised Gene Barry of the Pennsylvania delegation for his work on the issue and thanked the Women's Caucus for support. 
Abortion passed easUy 
There was a sense of victory in the air during the roll-call vote for the abortion issue. The final tally was 495 in favor of the majority pro-life plank, 249 for the minority "pro­choice" plank, and 16 abstaining. Over the 15 states voted unani­mously for the pro-life proposal, and of the four Iaraest state delegations, only New York did not vote heavily in favor of the majority plank. 
There was a heated debate which lasted twenty minutes before the vote. The delegates were attentive and there was not as muo·l con­fusion as there had been dur1 ,g the busing debate later in the e\1 ming. 
.----....>..;:C:.::oco.n_tinued on pa~ ~...1_0-'-)_ 


BICENTENNiAL! 

SATURDAY, MARCH 6 9-'1 STEPAN CENTER 
follows Mock Convention 
REFRESHMENTS: TICKETS: Bread and Cheese $3.00 couple COKE 2.50 dele&ates 
• 7-Up & Orange alternates 
T/l:l(f;r.; oold ltm~hl in thf' Dinin't:Hall 
academic trouble. carefully and intended to graduate 
Some students were quite upset with the exact number of credits about the incident. An administra­requirep, tc;> receive a letter like this tive secretary said that some is unnerving, she explained. students were hysterical. Some One girl who was in the infirmary 
students planned their schedules _got up and came over only to learn S.llnt maRy'S COLl€(j€ 
notue 0.\m€. rnOI.\n.\ 46556 
February 26,  1976  
Dear Mary•  
We  have  been  checking the  official records  of all  

second semester seniors, and regret to inform you that 
you are two credit hours short of the graduation
requirement, 

Unless,·you take immediate action to add two credits to your schedule, you will not be qualified to graduatewith your class this May, 
Yours sincerely, 
)J HiJ.I~i-LL 
(Mrs,) Gail P, Mandell Assistant to the Vice President for Academic Affairs 
GPMtbh 
.___

_____________________! *........................................ 



I 
lha It-
SAVE s119.85 ••• REALISTIC® STEREO COMPONENT SYSTEM!
t • 
• Realistic STA-82 AM-FM Stereo Receiver with Auto-Magic® FM Tuning • Two Realistic Mini-10 Walnut Veneer Bookshelf Speaker Systems • Realistic LAB-34 Changer with Base and $17.95 Value Cartridge 
Components Sold Separately ... 479.80 
__, 

it was a joke. The administrative secretary sa-
Another angry senior said: "I id it was too bad that the letter had three midterms to study for-writers couldn't have used their over the weekend! That letter time and effort "more construe­didn't help me study any." tively." 
t••·································
: COLLEGE EDUCATION $ 
* * 
~ corner of Logan and Jefferson ~ 
* * 

: FINEST : a 24 HOUR RESTAURANT a a IN MICHIANA 
* *
: catering to t 
: ND-SMC LATE NIGHT NEEDS t 
* *
t FEATURING COLLEGIATE SPECIAL · t ·** "JACK OMELET" * 
* *
* * 
* Daily Lunch Special Hamburgers * * *
* * 

: BREAKFAST SERVED ANYTIME: 






SCOTTSDALE MALL 
Most items also available at Rad•o Shack Dealers. Look for this s1gn '" your ne,ghborhood. 

fiti:JMi:jU~~;:;~~~_,;~~-~;;;~:;W::i~::i~L:;:;~u..,;::,_,.;:-,;::i~iC:jE:;:j!r;j~;::O;:;,RNA;yw;:;l;~r.ij~~~=-··~iii--i;i·~i;;AiiNi~i~~~-~i.i?~~~~;jOijR~~~-~..:_10~~;,:..~:~~~~~-~;;:...~,;;~~~:y;_,·-;·..--:.,;·-::;,.-~.-::"-·:""'.:""'-.:":.-::"!1::::·=-::.:-.:-:.:-:.:-:.:-:.----:.-:.:::-.-:::~:::.:-:..::-:~p~.R~IC~E~:~M:A:_:Y~Vf;A:_:R:_:,Y_::A:.:,T_.::IN~D;_lV~'I,::D~UA:L:,;S~T~O:;R~E~S~· ~-"::' ;'
' 
---------~--~ 
~-----~------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, March 5, 1976 
the observer 
5 

Bleier chosen Senior Class Fellow 
participated. "Rarely do we have shows ·that the students are still factors. "He is a Notre Dame broader appeal to the class." 
by Kathy McEntee any elections where that high a interested in the award." graduate, a football player and has Macauley concluded by stating Staff Reporter percentage of a class votes," noted The committee will contact a lot of social involvement behind that the Senior Fellow Committee Macauley. Bleier tomorrow about his victory. him," noted Macauley. "Whereas was "very pleased" with the This year the Senior Class Fellow Bleier will visit the campus some the other candidates had single results of the election. "We put 
Rocky Bleier, a former Notre Committee attempted to improve time after spring break, probably aspets to them, Bleier had a effort in and we got it back." 
Dame football player, was chosen the award's status through in­during the last week in March. as Senior Class Fellow in an creased efforts considering last Macauley pointed out that the election in which over SO percent of year's poor turnout. committee would like to see a the Class of '76 voted. ''This election was an experi­Senior Fellow Day established so 
Final vote tabulations were as ment and the response was good," that there is more to the honor than follows: Rocky Bleier 300 (34 declared Macauley. He attributes giving a speech. percent); Robert Keeshan 182 (21 the heavy voter turnout to the Specific activites for Bleier's visit percent); John McKay 175 (20 committee's increased publicity have not been announced, but it is percent); HunterS. Thompson 103 and the fact that voting boxes were expected that he will make a (12 percent); and Geraldo Rivera available in the Senior Bar where speech, tour the dorms, and visit 65 (7 percent). Write-in ballots "we were able to catch a lot of the Senior Bar. Macauley antici­included two votes for Dan Devine seniors." pates a heavy turnout for Bleier's and one vote each for Muhammed Macauley said the committee visit. He stated that "plans are Ali and "The Fonz." wanted the Senior Fellow award to being formulated for some activity 
According to Bill McCauley, remain a viable one. He is very which would involve the whole chairman of the Senior Fellow optimistic about the future of the class." 
SUNDAYMASSE!i (Main Church) 
5:15 p.m Sat. Rev. Robert Griffin 
9:30 a.m Sun. Rev. Joe Carey, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m Sun. Rev. Edward Kilmart.in, S.J. 
12:15 a.m Sun. Rev. Bill Toohey, C.S.C. 
Evensong will be at 4:30p.m in 
lady Chapel. Homilist will be 
Professor Roberta Chesnut. 
Committee, the most astounding award. Macauley also noted, "The Macauley believes that Bleier 
result of the voting was the fact other four candidates received won the award by such a wide ********************************** that 55 percent of the senior class fairly even percentages which margin because of a combination of 
! THANK YOU !!!!! ! 
i FOR YOUR PATRONAGE i
Convention '76: Good Feelings 
* * 
(Continued from page 1) of protocol. A good example is the find out whether we are concerned ~ FROM ~ 
the media showed up to give the Third World plank." In that about expediency of time or quality Mock Convention the flavor of a instance the chairman at the time of the platform." * * real convention. Before the activ­called for a vote on the whole Third People turned out for the conven­~ YOUR GREATEST FANS~ ities began WSBT television had a World plank when many delegates tion for various reasons. Baum said crew filming various aspects of the thought they were simply voting on he was interested in finding out * AT : convention. WSND was on hand to an amendmentto the plank. how Notre Dame students felt ~ ••••••••••••••••• * air the night's procedings. And Another delegate, Joe Baum of about the issues. "Living around journalists representing Notre Tennessee, agreed with Bangs, but here," he said, "you get the Dame magazine, The Observer, added that he thought all the petty feeling that students don't really 

! :MilANO'S! ! 
and The South Bend Tribune were squabbles and protocol made it an care about anything, that they're * ••••••••••••••••• : there to cover the event. interesting convention. nof interested in government. But 
Despite the flavor of the decora­Dougherty, however, took an it's encouraging to come here and ~ CREATORS # tions, it was the actual politicking opposing view on the subject of find out students are really that provided the main entertain­protocol. "I don't think that's interested.'' 
i OF !
ment. The issue of protocol really true. If we didn't have all Spectator Stan Bernat said he brought out varying reactions from that came to the convention because of several of the delegates. Many felt we couldn't have gotten thr-the numebr of candidates that are 
# DELICIOUS PIZZAS ! 
that the convention spent too much rugh last night. I think it's running, and also because he time debating less important matt-absolutely. necessary." he said. wanted to see how the convention 
~ 412 W. HILL ST. PHONE 287-2891 : 
ers. Kevin Dickerson, a California is run as compared to a real Gregg Bangs, delegate from d:!legate, summed the issue up convention. * *
********************************** 
New York, said, "They are wasting Slying, "I think that a lot of water Both delegates and spectators too much time on protocol. when i; going under the bridge because praised the convention committee, • we should be getting to the heart of Jl!ople are closing debate before generally comenting that they were the matter. It seems that the fie amendments are being con­doing a good job keeping the chairman has a lack of knowledge sdered. We need to set priorities convention organized and runing 
smoothly.


Three students subpoenaed; 
Also, most everybody agreed 






~ECORDS
that the convention seemed to represent a real convention pretty
ABC levies Fat Wally's fine 
well. Kane noted that "real conventions are chaotic and noisy,
by Cathy Nolan hearing. For acting as state CHECK OUR SELECTION OF
and this one follows that pretty
Staff Reporter witnesses, each student was paid 
well." Another spectator said,
three dollars. ''I guess it was a 
"It's a great training ground.
Fat Wally's, 2046 South Bend good legal experience for us," ROCK-JAZZ-SOUL-CLASSICAL
Many people look at the Mock
commented one student. "I amAve., has been fined $250 for 
Convention as being a joke, but
violation of state liquor laws. The just glad it is over and I can finally BLUES-BLUEGRASS
when you set all the frivolity aside
put it all behind me."
tine was levied by the Indiana 
there is a lot to be learned here."
Alcoholic Beverage Commission at 
AND 
a hearing Mar.3 in Indianapolis. 
OUR EVER EXPANDING
Present at the hearing were three of the six Notre Dame-St. 

STOCK OF CUT-OUTS.
Mary's students arrested for un­derage drinking in the Jan. 23 raid 


Acareer in law­
at Fat Wally's. The three students were subpoenaed by the Alcoholic Beverage Commission. 
REGULAR $6.98 LP's


withoutlaw school. 
In a previous hearing, Feb. 2, in Division IV of the St. Joseph 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree?
County Superio~ Court, the charges 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between un 
against the six students wert.: 
undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­
ALWAYS $4.99
dropped. Prosecutor William Voor 
Sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do 
work traditionally done by lawyers.
gave no explanation for the court's 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills--the courses are taught by lawyers. You 
decision to dismiss the charges. 
CUT-OUTS $2.59 EACH
In the Mar. 3 hearing, the 
choose one of the seven courses offered-choose
students were asked to testify 
the city in which you want to work. 
OR 3 FOR $7.00

about the raid. The students were 
Since 1970. The Institute for Paralegal Training
questioned by the chief excise 
has placed more than 1200 graduates in law firms,
officer and a court judge. Prior to 
banks. and corporations in over 75 cities. 
the hearing, the commission grant­
If you are a senior of high academic standing and 
STOP
ed immunity to the students to 
are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant, 
prevent any possibility of prosecu­
we'd like to meet you. 

IN 
tion. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with 
AND
The commission questioned the 
our representative.
students as to the type of identifi­cation they used to enter the bar. 
We will v1sit your campus on 

SAVE 

The students were also asked how 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24 
many times they had previously frequented Fat Wally's. 


MUSIC FOR LESS 
"Our appearance at the hearing was really unnecessary,'' said one 
The Institute for 
of the students. "We could have 

• RECORDS
mailed in our statements. They 

Paralegal Training 
asked us the same questions as last 
~3b Suulh 17111 Slr"r'l Plllladelphra. Pennsylvanra 19103 
tlt I Ctlltt• St~tart
time." 
(~151 732-6600 

lls..wtkl, ltlllata
The students were given no 
',' •I 01 '•
explanation why only three of them 
... ' ..... .

I rl I I I I 
were a'!> ked to appettr at --the 

Foundt'd November 3, 1966 

The Observer is published by the students of the University EDITORIII.L BOARD of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Teny Keeney Editor-in-Chief 
reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported 
AI Rutherford Managing Editor 
as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent 
Jim Eder Executive Editorthe opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­mentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor 
Bob Mader
cartoons and regular columns express the views of their News Editor 
authors. Column space is available to all member< of the Maureen Rynn Can-pus Editor community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor expression of varying opinions on campus. Ken Bradford Copy Editor 
Val Zurblis Wire Editor Editorials: 28J-171S News: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Tom O'Neil Features Editor Business Manager Tom Modglin Bill Brink Sports Editor Advertising Manager Tom Whelan 
Dan Sanchez Senior Night Editor 
Friday, March 5, 1976 .A 
P. 0. Box Q 
consider this!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 


Let's Be Realistic 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii pat kearns 
For the hundreds, or maybe thousands, of Notre Dame students who prefer to let their lunch get cold (or colder) rather than delay reading the latest "Consider This" column, it seems worthwhile to clarify this author's stance in his January 30 column. For in the interim, this humble ci.tadel of journalistic integrity has been maliciously maligned by one Ken Hallett. His remarks may go unloved, but they cannot go unanswered! 
In the January 30 column, entitled "Funny Ideas", this author presented his reflections on conservative political thought in America today. That conservative thinking which provides the firm foundation for the practical solutions offered by the Right to the day to day problems of United States social and political life. And what are the principle tenets which form this conservative foundation? According to Mr. George H. Nash in his National Review essay (cited in the "Funny Ideas" column), there are four essential tenets, which are: (1) authority, (2) morals, (3) tradition, and (4) truth (particulary achieved by the great Classical and Christian 
so would yield more favorable Some of us would see that selection thinkers of the past). of such a committee would be as In opposition to these conservative principles, we find the
results than to look forward to a


Doomsday 
"something" that you hypothesize. difficult as answering the question propositions of the Left. And finding them, we label them as we see itself. Some of us would like to ask them, namely "relativism" and "positivism." But now comes the Our economy has changed con­our own questions. If others would indignant objection of Mr. Hallett. "Liberals hold dear the same

Rhetoric 
siderably over the past 200 years, like to ask the questions and draw basic tenets claimed by Mr. Kearns exclusively for conservatives," so much so that it is barely arguments from various fields, he cries. (I weep.) For the true Left does not presently differ from Reiterated recognizable. And certainly it will some of us would also appreciate it the Right in only means. It stands opposed as regards fundamental. continue to change, but why are we if information was stated accurate­principles, although this has not always been the case in American to expect a violent, rapid, imminent ly. history. We cannot realistically believe that it is respect for revolution within the next 20 years? 1 )Scientists realize that develop­authority which prompts the actions of the Chicago Seven; nor
Dear Editor: 

Change is inevitale but not to the ment of any organism is a contin­soundness of morals which allows the cancerous growth of abortion Come on now Mr. Jacques, don't extent of sounding the alarm ... uous process. When something clinics; nor love of tradition which mocks the "archaic censorship" again~ begins to happen, it results from of media presentations; nor sacred regard for the truth which
you remember the old. saying, "if events which have gone before, attempts to legitimatize communist suppression of peoples all overyou don't have anything original to Kevin A. Berning and makes later development poss­the world (Anybody want to move from West Berlin to Eastsay, don't say anything at all" 
ible. Berlin?!).
(New American Revolution, March 2) A zygote does not have the Maybe the liberals and conservatives of the first half of this1)? Your article was nothing but a· same genetic composition as any century held these four tenets in common, but the fact is that thereiteration of the same doomsday cell in anyone's body (except its Left has gradually slipped into a totally different framework since

Inaccuracy

rhetoric that has been floating 
identical twin). World War II. Is it some kind of twisted sense of "maturity" whicharound business, economic, and has given rise to the relatively recent court decisions forbiddingphilosophical circles for the past 
vs. These two facts, it seems to me, prayer in public schools and "liberalizing" abortion? No chance. Itcentury, merely spiced up with the 
were distorted. If anyone is is a terrible split in the fiber of this nation's heritage (e.g. naturallatest scare statistics. 
Fanaticism ambitious enough to ask the ques­law jurisprudence versus analytical positivistic jurisprudence). tions, he should be ambitious Mr. Hallett, you have done a good job of defending the right weWhy didn't the economy turn enough to state them properly. all have to hold a plurality of opinions as to the proper functions ofinside out during the Great De­Dear Editor: Fanaticism is no worse than inac­government. However, you have naively presumed that the viewspression? If an economy can 
curacy. which you have defended are those of the Left. Unfortunatley forweather over 20 per cent unem­I am writing in response to a your argument, yet fortunately foryou, they are at most the views ofployment and a reduction in Real commentary which appeared in Regards, a moderate. (Incidentally, no real conservative would ever claimGNP (constant 1958 dollars) from the Wed. Observer: "Abortion: Stan Podlasek this Supreme Court as one true to conservative ideals.) So, Ken,$203.6 billion in 1929 to $141.5 Just the Questions." Mr. Hanifin Grad Student-Genetics your right to be Left may be questioned, but your need to bebillion in 1933, why is 6 per cent is doing our community a favor in realistic is certain.
inflation and 9 per cent unemploy­deciding the question for us. Many ment and a 5. 7 per cent drop in real people know the merit of an answer opinion~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GNP so earthshaking? often varies directly with the 
quality of a question. It is too bad, 

Over the years our free enter­as Pat points out, that so many of prise system has become more us become "fanatic"--especially of inflexible as legislation, labor un­an issue which involves such a 



Why a Bicentennial? 
ions, and other assorted rigidities small quanity of human life. Why have been placed on it. These should we get so excited? Pat can restrictions (among other variab­ask the questions we need. 
._._._._._._._._._._._._._augie grace
les) have impaired the natural workng of a free market economy to Consider his question: "What The national Bicentennial cele-readings will include the opinions Asia. Today the campuses are
the extent that we now face skewed . are the minimal characteristics 
which mark a creature as definitely brations are focused around three of those who did not view America leading the thrust towards pro­trade-offs between inflation and 
unemployment. Perhaps a closer human?" Why don't we set up a themes: Festival, Heritage, and as chosen including readings from grams to aid world hunger. But examination at our "imperfect committee of the wisest among us Horizon. These three themes will Wounded Knee and a set of generally the campuses are quiet, 
competition" and what has made it to answer this great question? 
also be evident in the University's Immigrant Letters. The final set of much like our apathetic country. official celebration, "An Almost readings will try to qualify where We can ill afford to be appathetic Chosen People," March 7-11. The the American Dream has not been while our cities cannot support civic conference will start with a gala fulfilled and will end with a or economic needs, while a presi­festival on Sunday afternoon at challenge by. Archibald McLeish. dential campaign flows with politi­
3:00 p.m. The opening session will This, along with Senator Prox-cal rhetoric and few legitimate consist of patriotic music, dramatic mire's address, should set the stands, and while Congress pan­readings, and .the keynote address stage for an eventful week. ders the thought of eleminating the by Senator William Proxmire. Throughout the week the confer-privacy of the individual. I am 
In recent weeks I have partici-ence will then continue to follow convinced that if life is once again pated in the Radical Future confer-the themes of heritage and hori-going to flow through the veins of ence and have criticized the "red, zons. Scholarly papers will be this country then its circulation white, and blue" atmosphere of delivered by Dr. Martin Diamond must begin on the campuses. The this year's activities. But I believe• of Northern Illinois University, Dr. youth and energy of this country that Sunday's festive opening will Sidney Ahlshrom of Yale, Dr. Peter must be used to keep it moving be an event that should not be Berger of Rutgers and Vincent especially toward the future. After missed. It must be remembered Harding of the University of Penn-all, today's future is the world we that festivities, color, and excite-sylvania, Dr. Alfred Kazin of will soon be living in. ment are all part of the American C.U.N.Y., Dr. Bernard Cohen of Angola, the C.I.A. disclosures, way of life, an important part that Harvard University, and Marshal and unemployment are causing should not be lost. The customs Smelser and Fr. Theodore Hes-Americans to re-evaluate this coun and traditions of celebration and its burgh of Notre Dame. They will be try's domestic and foriegn stance. joyful expressions should be an addressing problems in political And the bicentennial should be important part of the festival as science, theology, history, litera-used as a tool for this evaluation long as they are used properly. ture, sociology, and science. These and critical analysis. We should 
The readings at Sunday's open-speakers will investigate our past -use the Bicentennial instead of ing session will truly set the stage espercially the relationship of ten-letting it use us. If all we are going for the theme of the conference. sion and contradiction in America's to get out of it is parades, stamps, Americans have always had a inner history, and the failure of the coins, and commercialism, then we spiritual sense of being a "chosen noble vision. More importantly will be witnesses, perhaps accom­people." Yet today with the they will focus on the horizon, our plices to a cultural murder. wounds of Watergate and Vietnam future. tfow is this failed vision to We invite all to come Sunday still deep within us, we question affect us now and in years to come? afternoon, 3:00p.m. to the Athletic that image. The early set of Why should we get invelved? In and Convocation Center to help readings will include works of the decade of the 60's the college participate in a festival. And then Abraham Lincoln who first used the and university campuses were the we hope that you will continue to term "an Almost Chosen People." centers of intellectual and social participate throughout the week in It will then examine what many criticism. It was the campuses that critically examining the heritage writers have said about the Ameri-caused this country to re-evaluate and horizons of America. can mission. The second set of our military position in Southeast 
DOONESBURY 
MY IVIF~.?.. OH.. OH,NO.. 

by Garry Trudeau 
TH~ CHA!RMIW HAS 
H&ARP 7J.I/.fT YOV HIM A lOV~LY PI!F&, ANP J.lff Ml.JP~RS /A/HY 'KJ(J PIP NOT BR!N6 HER. /A/ITH YOU 
\ 7001/NA. 
(SJ./13 C()()UJN'T MAl<& IT, BlfT I FORPOT 1/13 711/NKS OF AriAIN.. 1-/ER. OFTeN.) 

' \ 

· • • • •'"' '' '' 1 If It.. 





the pomps of 
It is Ash Wednesday evening, and there is a lingering odor on my fingertips from the number of times today that I smeared burnt palm on the foreheads of Lenten penitents. Over and over, at two different Masses so far, I repeated the words: "Remember, man, you are dust and to dust you will return;" and at eleven o'clock I will repeat them again at a Mass in Farley chapel. Shakespeare said it more prettily, I think, but I couldn't use Shakespeare's words as a liturgical formula. I couldn't simply say: ''Golden lads and girls all must,/As chimney-sweepers, come to dust.'' I might think that, as I sign all those young Catholic heads with the blessed ashes. I might think that "Golden lads and girls all must/ As chimney-sweepers, come to dust;" but I mustn't say those words. If it is any comfort to bishops and liturgists who worry about such things. I didn't say them, and wouldn't say them, ever, at Mass. But I have to admit, I did think about them a lot this Ash Wednesday. 
Then, just a little while ago, I gave the invocation at the opening session of the Mol:k Convention. The golden lads and girls were there, and on some of them, you could see the smudges on their foreheads where a priest had put the sooty mark of the day, reminding them of their mortality. None of them acted as though they felt the least bit mortal; they laughed and clapped and cheered as though they were going to go on in life forever. They were pinned and ribboned and hatted with the names of their favorite candidates as though they expected that the country would go on forever. I am reasonably nervous that the country couldn't survive some of those candidates they support for president. If some of those candidates were elected, I'm not sure that the country would want to survive; and great numbers of us would migrate to Australia. But of course countries are pretty cocksure they are going to survive. You never hear any more of the people of a country putting on the sackcloth and ashes of repentance, declar­


uariety sparks bicentennial fest 
A ntltural mixture of the new and the old 
l:an be sampled during the five-day 
bil:cntennial festival starting next Sunday 
on the campuses of the University of 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. 
Virtually all events are free and open to the 
publil:. 

The musical span of history will be most evident at the opening session next Sunday (March 7) at 3 p.m. as the Notre Dame Concert Band, Orchestra and Jazz Band combine for a patriotic concert ranging from the "Yankee Doodle" of the Revolu­tionary War to "Blues," a 1975 composi­tion. The musical selections will be interspersed with dramatic readings, also drawn from 200 years of the nation's history and including the works of its public figures and the thoughts of its immigrants. Conductors of the musical groups participating in the opening ses­sion, all members of Notre Dame's music faculty, are Robert F. O'Brien and James Phillips for the Concert Band, Ralph Lane for the Orchestra, and Rev. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C .. for the Jazz Band. The concert, which will be in the ACC will be followed by an address by Sen. William Proxmire of Wisconsin. 
Proxmire assumed the U.S. Senate seat left vacant by Joseph McCarthy following a special election in 1957. He was returned to the Senate in 1958, 1964 and 1970, the last time by a landslide in which he carried all of Wisconsin's 72 counties. He is a 1938 graduate of Yale University and also holds a master's degree in business and public administration from Harvard Uni­versity. He holds congressional records for consequetive roll votes and has earned a reputation as a severe critic of wasteful federal spending. The event is free and open to the public. 
Other speakers slated to speak during the festival week include Martin Diamond and Sydney Ahstrom, both Yale profes­sors; Peter Berger, currently a Rutgers professor; Bernard Cohen, a Harvard 
ing a fast, adm1ttmg that the country had sins for which God could humiliate it into the dust. Golden lads and girls might acknowledge their mortality, but a country never seems to recognize that death could overtake all that country's dreams and hopes and sacred promises. A country should be forced to read Kipling's Reces­sional. where the pride of empire is reminded of "the pomps of yesterday" that became "one with Nineveh and Tyre": "Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet,/ Lest 
we forget, lest we forget ... '' 

So the golden lads and girls, marked 
with the dust of their mortality, gather into 
conventions that are half-carnival and 
near-circus. You think to yourself that a 
revival tent is what is really needed; not for 
the lads and girls who have rene":,ed their 
covenant under the sacramental sign of the 
Blood of the Lamb; but for the nation to 
whom the plains and the mountains. the 
rivers and the lakes, were given as an Eden 
restored, a Paradise regained, a Promised 
Land flowing with milk and honey. I am no 
Billy Graham, calling on a nation to fall on 
its knees before God, as though Huckle· 
berry Finn were confessing that his were 
the sins of the Prodigal Son. I am not an 
evangelist or prophet, preaching repent­
ance, bidding the country to come home to 
Jesus. But I wonder if there are not Ash 
Wednesdays that a nation has to face, 
sounding the trumpet and proclaiming a 
fast? 

This is the fasting that I wish: 
releasing those bound unjustly, 
untying the thongs of the yoke; 
Setting free the oppressed, break­
ing every yoke; 

Sharing your bread with the hun­
gry, sheltering the oppressed and 
the homeless; 

Clothing the naked when you see 
them, and not turning your back on 
your own. 

Then your light shall break forth 
like the dawn ... 

Friday, March S, 1976 the observer 
7 

----~--------------------~ 
letters to a lonely God 
!Jesterda!J 
Reverend Robert Griffin 


It was really a very handsome mock convention, as reassuring as an old-fash­ioned Fourth of July picnic. The Varsity Band played ''The Star Spangled Banner''. The Glee Club sang "This Is my Country". There were helium-filled balloons, and a presentation of arms by the Army ROTC. There was excitement and patriotic fervor. The only thing wrong with the affair, I felt, was that there were no believable political candidates. There was not a single name that I saw or heard in that whole mock convention hall that was, as a presidential candidate, worth a leak-hole in the snow. Maybe middle-aged priests should keep their mouths shut on such things. Maybe it is the role of university chaplains to be flag-wavers and true-blue Americans in love with apple pie. Maybe old ex-English teachers should be satisfied with voting in every election for candidates who are the lesser of two evils. Maybe cynics like me should not share their fears with the young, for fear that the young may become disillusioned with the democratic process. Maybe clerics who have grown weary in a day filled with the Ash Wednesday rituals have no right to insist that countries, like churches, need their penitential fast days too. Maybe fat, faded Democrats shouldn't admit their sometimes fears as to whether America is intended to last forever as the home of the brave and the )3J1d of the free. 
Nixon said he wanted to tell the country what's right with America. Ford also wants to tell us what's right with the country. I know what's right with America; and it isn't Richard Nixon, and it isn't Gerald Ford. It is the youth of the country that are all right: the golden lads and girls who dare to dream the imperishable dream of the patriots ... the Glee Club singing "This is my Country", the ROTC color guard, and the band playing the National Anthem ... 
The ugliness of Vietnam and Watergate was the harm they did to the American dream; at least they harmed the Dream for me, and I don't see how it can be mended. not by the midget men who trudged in the 
1958; Marshall Smelser, a Notre Dame history professor; Vincent Harding, an expert of Afro-American Studies; Alfred Kazin, a professor of English from City University of New York's Barnard College; and Fr. Hesburgh. The speaker's schedule is as follows: Sunday [3-5 pm) Proxmire in the ACC Monday [9-11:30 a,] Smelser in the CCE 
[2-4 pm) Diamond in the CCE Tuesday [9-11 am) Ahlstrom in the CCE [2:30-5 pm) Berger and Harding in the CCE Wednesday [9-11:30 am] Kazin in the CCE [2-4 pm] Cohen in the CCE Thursday [9-11:30 am] Fr. Hesburgh 
On March 8 the South Bend Symphony, under the direction of Herbert Butler and featuring 14-year-old violinist Dylana Jen­sen as guest artist, will devote one of its regularly scheduled concerts to "A Tribute to American Music." Seats will be available for those who do not hold season symphony tickets, but complimentary tic­kets must be obtained in advance at the Notre Dame Center for Continuing Educa­tion. 
Notre Dame's Chapel Choir, under the direction of Sue Henderson Seid, will sing at a bicentennial liturgy at 11:30 a.m. March 9 in Sacred Heart Church, which will be a service of morning praise led by Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., provost of Notre Dame, who will also deliver the homily. Several American choral works will be incorporated into the music for the service. 
Composer Samuel Adler of the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, N.Y., will speak on "Twentieth Century American Music" in the Little Theater at Saint Mary's College at 5 p.m. March 9. A highlight of the festival will be the premiere of Adler's "We Believe," a hymn of faith commissioned for the occasion, during an 8:15 p.m. concert March 10 in Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. Adler himself will direct the instrumental­choral ensemble in the public debut of the work. Soloists for the premiere will be Susan Stevens, Mary Mills, Rev. Patrick Maloney, C.S.C., and David Rust. Also 
in the musical 

Sen. William Proxmire [right] will open the bicentennial festival this Sunday and Fr. 
snows of New Hampshire, and rang the 
doorbells of bigots in South Boston. 
Today I saw young people at their prayers and at their politics. The fabric of their flesh was dust, they were told at Mass, and into dust it will return. The thought of their mortality didn't seem to discourage them. In the evening. at their convention, it was obvious that Watergate and Vietnam had not discouraged them either. Being with them was as cheerful as attending one of the War Bond rallies back in World War II. When Kate Smith sang "God Bless America," you knew we were going to win the blooJy war, and bring home the troops, and the lights would go on again all over the world. Tonight, as the golden lads and girls touched my doubt~ with their faith, I felt the lights coming on again. The candidates now on the busting~ may seem shabby; the country may seem shabby; I may feel shabby; but right now, the Dream that may have gone shabby seems as enduring as solid gold. 
Ash Wednesday evening, and I have shared today in the solemnities of liturgies and the ballyhoo of politics.! have seen the golden lads and girls turned into political creatures, and I am comforted. It was for them also, from the beginning. that Paradise was regained; to them, that Eden was restored; to them that the Land was Promised, as much as to any founding fathers. 
Up to now, I have not been enjoying the political street-walking of the candidates of the Bicentennial Year very much. After Ash Wednesday, I may enjoy it more because of the mortal children with an immortal Dream. I went to their rituals, and they came to mine. I gave them dust; they gave me hope. I shared my faith, and they shared theirs; and theirs was a faith that I have wept for as lost, hopipg I might find it again. It does not smell of mortality; but on Ash Wednesday my hand. like Lear's hand, smells of mortality. Dust can do that to your fingers; doubt can do that to your dreams. 
gram will be the Notre Dame Glee Club, Chorale and Camerata, under the direction of Dr. David Clark lsele, assistant profes­sor of music: the Notre Dame Chorus, under the direction of Walter Ginter, adjunct instructor in music, and the Saint Mary's Collegiate Choir, Madrigal Singers and the Women's Chorus, directed by Rick Sibley, instructor in. music. 
The dramatic offering during the festival will be William Saroyan's "My Heart's in the Highlands," performed by the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theater at 8:15 p.m. March 9 in O'Laughlin Aditorium at Saint Mary's College. Dr. Reginald F. Bain, associate professor of speech and drama, will direct the play. Free tickets may be reserved in advance by calling 284-4176 or picked up at the box office prior to the performance. 
The Notre Dame Woodwind Quartet will perform at a reception from II :30 a.m. to 
12:30 p.m. March 8 in the Center for Continuing Education, and Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will read poetry at a similarly timed reception on March I0. 
Several open houses and exhibits are also scheduled. The Notre Dame Art Gallery and Art Department have theirs set for 4 p.m. March 8, and the Gallery exhibit includes a photographic history of Notre Dame assembled by Dr. Thomas Schlereth, assistant professor of American Studies. A 
ntennial exhibit in the Memorial Library is also available for viewing during the festival. Saint Mary's College Art Department has its open house scheduled for 5 p.m. March 9, and the Notre Dame Department of Architecture is inviting the public from 4:30 to 6 p.m. on March 10. 
Underwriting these cultural activities as well as the academic conference which comprises a major part of the festival. are grants from the Indiana American Revolu­tion Bicentennial Commission, the Indiana Arts Commission and the Indiana Com· mittee for the Humanities in cooperation with the National Endowment for the 
of the History of Science since Theodore Hesburgh [left] will wrap it up next Thursday. Humanities.

I/ 
I I j 
j 
I 
J 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
~ 
j 
~ 
j j l l l I I I I I 
j 
~ 
j I I j 
j 
I l 


.. -~f ' .., • ·"lf:' ~· .' ' ~It 
I 
8 the observer Fri'day~ ·March s, 1976 
Meeting on Monday 
Federal agencies looking for summer interns 
· The National Oceanic and At-tions and law. The second program
Notre Dame juniors, seniors and Federal government in jobs that and Atmospheric Administration in will accept seniors and graduate
graduate students may be eligible are rela~d to their career interests. Rockville, Maryland; the Lyndon mospheric Administration is seek­for summer internships with the Students may apply for the J h s c t · H t ing juniors, seniors and graduate 
f.:udents with a wide variety of o nson pace en er 10 ous on, students with majors in mathema­majors.

federal government. Richard Wil-internships through the Placement Texas; and the Goddard Space Iemin, director of the Placement Bureau. A.. screening committee Flight Center in Greenbelt, Mary-tics or computer science. Bureau, said that six Federal selects a limited number of stu-land. The NASA Lyndon Johnson Spa­Government Dept.agencies have invited Notre Dame dents for each internshlp based on The Social Security Administra-ce Center wants seniors who plan students to apply for summer an applicant's scholastic ability, tion is seeking students entering to go to graduate school with sponsoring dinner internships through the Federal leadership, honors and career in-their senior year with majors in engineering majors or backgrounds 
Summer Intern Program. terests. To be eligible for the liberal arts, mathematics, com-in mathematics, physics or the St. Mary's government depart-
Interested students must attend program a student must rank in the puter science and business admini-physical sciences. mcnt invites all government majors a meeting with Willemin on Mon-upper third of the class and stration; and seniors entering gra-The NASA Goddard Space Flight and students interested in govern­day March 8 at 4:45 p.m. in room graduate students in the upper duate school in mathematics, sta-Center wants juniors and seniors ment to a dinner with President 317 of the Administration Building half. tistics, computer science, eco-with majors in political science, John M. Duggan Tuesday, Mar. 9. 
Eligibility requirements and appli-Federal internships are available nomics, health care administration economics or the social sciences. The dinner will be held in St. cation instructions will be explain-with the Internal Revenue Service and the social sciences. The Internal Revenue Service Mary's Clubhouse from 4:30 p.m. ed. and National Gallery of Art in The National Gallery of Art is has two internship programs. The to 7 p.m. All interested students 
The Federal Summer Intern Pro-Washington, D.C.; the Social Se-looking for senior art students with first program requires juniors, must leave their meal ticket numb­gra~ provi~es colleg: stu.dents curity Administration in Baltimore, a 3.5 grade point ave:age or above sen!~rs a~d graduate students for ers with Mr. Tondreau, 335 Made­semt-professwnal expenence tn the Maryland; the National Oceanic and at least 12 hours tn art history. postttons tn personnel, labor rela-leva by today.
.................................................... 

fA ONCE-IN-200-YEARS OPPORTUNITY! f 
t The Notre Danle-Saint Mary's Bicentennial Festival t
•t OPENING SESSION, SUNDAY, MARCH 7, 3p.m., ACC ARENA •t 
+ Processional "Washington Processional" Anon(1790) Musical "Winter's Past" Barlow + Selections
+ Call to Celebration +
+ Dr. Thomas P. Bergin + "Arrerica, the Beautiful" Notre Darre Concert Readings lrrmigrant Letters about Arrerica +
• Band and Audience 
: Musical "Ode to Freedom'' based on "Battle Hymn of •• 
• Selections Republic'' by William Steffe (1862) +
Welcome Master of Cererronies
+ Dr. Thomas P. Bergin, Co-dlairman, Bicentennial +
. .
~~ 
+ Readings Frederick Douglass : from a July 4th address at + Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Rodlester, N.Y. (lH52) 
• R-esident, University of Notre Darre Crow Feather: from Bury My Heart at Wounded + Knee (1970)
• 
Midlael Novak: from Choosing Our King (1974) ++ Mrs. Dan D. Stiver Cardinal Jarres Gibbon : from Retrospect of Rfty + Exerutive Chairman of the South Bend Bicenten-Years (1916)
• 
nial Corrmittee Ardlibald Macl.eish (1970) + 
•+ Musical University of Notre Dame Concert Band, Robert Musical "Blues" by David Baker (1975) •+ 
• ti 0' Brien, oonductor. University of Notre Darre S 1 t" Notre Darre Jazz Band :
Se1ec ons , e ec Ions "Sumrert·lrre" by George Gershw1·n (1935)
Ordlestra, Ralph Lane, conductor .University of
• Notre Darre Jazz Band, Rev. Geofge Wiskirdlen, Words by DuBose Heyward Arrangerrent by C.S.C., conductor Alan Feeney + "Yankee Doodle" Anon (1782)
: 
Contemporary paraphrase by Morton Gould + 
• lntro-Dr. H. Ronald Weber, Co-dlairman, Bicentennial + •• ductions Committee +
Readings From the Declaration of Independence (1776) ~=n~~~co~~:ll f~~ )an address delivered in Dr. John M. Duggan, R-esident, Saint Mary's •• • 
Abraham Uncoln: from an address delivered College.·
• before the New Jersey Senate (1861 ) + •
.& Keynote Senator William A-oxmire of Wisconsin + 
...,.+ Musical "Arrerican Salute" Paraphrase of "When·Johnny Address + Corres Mardling Home" Patrick Gilrrore (1863} "The Star Spangled Banner'' based on + 
• Selections "Anadlreon in Heaven" (1814) Words by Francis +
. 
~~ 

+ Readings Robert Frost: "The Gift Outright" (1942) :
• 
John Winthrop: from A Model of Christian + Charity (1630) Recessional "R-esident Washington Grand Mardl" Anon 

• 
ThomasPaine: from Crisis Paper (1783) (1784) + 


Walt Whitman: from "By Blue Ontario's Shore"• (1~6) •+ Orestes A. BroVIITlson: from the Arrericar1 + 
: Republic (1865) J •
p 
. .
. ~ .
~~ 

• (The Festival continues March 8,9,10, and 11, with an academic conference ~ : •• interlaced with cultural activities. A complete program of events will be AMERICAN + 
L_______J REVOLUTION
+ available at the ACC Sunday and at the Center for Continuing Education BICENTENNIAL •• 
+ 
subsequently. Underwriting the Festival in part are grants from the Indiana UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME +. American Revolution Bicentennial Commission, the Indiana Arts Commission SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE : 

+ 
and the Indiana Committee for the Humanities, in: cooperation with the National Endowment for the Humanities.) • 


' \


~~~···~············-.····~..,····~~~···············. 
Fri~~y,_ March 5, 1976 
the observer 

Hate the dining halls ? there is still some hope 
by Jane Neff Staff Reporter 

Have you ever wanted to offer helpful suggestions to the Notre Dame Food Service, but didn't know how to make yourself heard? 
Well  the  Food  Service  Advisory  
Commission  is  working  to  help  
you.  according  to  Joe  Fiorella,  
chairman.  

·'The Advisory Commission ex­ists to function as a channel of communication between students and management, with the goal of improved food service for stud­ents," Fiorella stated. 
The Committee is comprised of eight Notre Dame students, four -A·ho cat in the North Dining Hall and four who eat in South. They meet periodically with the Food Committee Staff to discuss comp­laints and suggestions given them by other students. 
·Edmund Price, director of Food Services, feels very strongly about the importance of the Advisory Commission. "The Commission is our official contact with students," he began. "We're providing a service for students, and think it wise to try to see what they want." 
Citing examples to show that the Food Service does listen to Comm­ission input. Joe Corpora. comm­ittee member, said, "We asked for poached eggs. wheat bread, apples and Mr. Pibb, and we got them." Also a request to change steak night from Thursday to Tuesday was honored. 
"They've done a good job im­plementing what we've suggested he concluded. "But of course, there's always room for improve­ment." 
The three functions of the Com­mission, according to Phyllis Rose, Food Service Dietitian, arc comm­unicative, evaluative, and innov­ative. "They direct suggestions to us, evaluate the Food Service and help explain administrative policy to students." 
Emphasizing the importance of communication, Price stated, "So­metimes we don't sec the same 
Riegle speaks at Convention 
(Continued from page 1) 
go on is an absolute disgrace. We can't let it go on," he said. 
As a remedy, Riegle proposed a national income maintenance pro­gram for the elderly. To this suggestion, Riegle received a stand ing ovation. 
Another stand in the Mock Convention platform which Riegle praised concerned the seniority system. "You carne straight out against the seniority system in Congress. In the House of Repre­sentatives, we changed the senior­ity system. We haven't made that change in the Senate yet,'' Riegle commented. 
Riegle criticized the misrepre­sentation of nonloyal Democrats. He cited Phil Hart's retirement from the Judiciary Committee as a result of the unfair effects of seniority. After eighteen years of service on the committee, Hart still did not have the chairmanship. Instead, the Judiciary Committee continues to be chaired by "the senator from Mississippi, Mr. Eastland, who calls himself a Democrat but is really a Republi­can" said Riegle. "We..llrnSi make a change in the Senate. We can make a change in the Senate." 
Congressman Riegle is running for the U.S. Senate this year. 
Riegle told the audience that self-government needs help. "We haven't made it work right. What we have now is special interest government," he said. 
Riegle believes that the Mock Convention has a definite purpose and importance in the election of a new president. "What this con­vention has to do is thrash out the issues. We've got to take that message right out the door, out to 
•: the elections," he concluded. 
•••• ~It.,.' \ •..-~ .-1," .._~ ..... <;;--:" '~"... c ''.;.' 
things students see. Sometimes what they see is more important than what we see, but we have to know about it. The Commission is helpful in keeping us informed." 
Recently a 10 day survey was conducted by the Commission to evaluate the present dining cond­itions. "We didn't want it public­ized," said Julie Dunn, committee member and Student Coordinator at North Dining Hall, "So we completed the surveys ourselves, or asked roommates or close friends to do so." 
"It was vital to a successful outcome that the management have no prior knowledge of the surveys," she added. 
Co;pora feels the survey was representative of the student body because it contained complaints that he has heard over and over again. 
The survey pointed to the need to improve Sunday night meals and the taste of the coffee, and comp­lained of lines closing early. It also suggested an extention of breakfast hours. 
On the positive side, soups were complimented for their rich flavor and warmth. and breakfast was rated as quite good. 
Fiorella complimented the man­agement by saying, "Everything we suggest. they give an honest attempt to implement. And if it's not feasible, they tell us why." 
"We listen and act on what is plausible." Price commented. ·'But we must look at the long range change. Everyone likes and wants something different." 
And budget does enter into the consideration also, as Price pointed out. ''Two or three times a soft ice cream machine has been put into our budget, but each time it's been pulled out because of finances." 
"Foa; instance, right now a proper machine would cost $12,000. But we need a new roof 
on  North  Dining  Hall,  priced  at  
$14.000.  You  know  what has  to  
come first," he said.  

Another request that is some­times denied, is for a certain soft drink. "If you add something," 
stated Price, "You have to take 
something else away. We only 
have so many soft-drink tabs and so 
not everyone can be satisfied. We 
aim at pleasing the majority." 
A major frustration for Corpora 
in serving on the Advisory Comm­
ission comes when something is 
agreed on to be implemented, then 
is not. "On steak nights they 
should have a second entree for 
people who are not filled by one 
steak, or people that don't like 
steak," Corpora said. "The Food 
Service agreed to a second entree 
but has not served one up to now." 
Likewise, he objects to students who constantly complain, even when nothing can be done. Dunn agrees, saying that students don't always realize that certain sug­gestions just aren't feasible. 
"We're in the top 10 percent of the country in food service," Price explained. "But that doesn't mean we're perfect. We have to keep our ears to the ground and listen to the 
students." 
"I'm sure there arc many more Fiorella added that positions on students suggestions and the Food Service Advisory Com­complaints," Corpora concluded. mission, including chairmanship.
"People just don't know how to are open for next year and re­channel them. But that's what the quested that interested students Advisory Commission is here for." contact him at 6795. 
-'l'Hb BEAD GALLERY-
millions of imported beads 
JUTE...;.WAXED LINEN-POLYESTER TWINE-READYMADE & MADE TO ~ORDER-MACRAME JEWELRY COMPLETE ~INE OF MACRAME surPLIES 
,_ · 919A' \V. Mc!<inley Ave. 
.I 

(next to Boogt~}~ecord~L __)1 
Nowa Bose Direct/Reflecting bookshelf speaJ<er and its under $100. 
If you thought it couldn't be done, you don't know BOSE. Because the new BOSE MODEL 301 speaker is just that. A bookshelf speaker that provides reflected and direct sound performance in the trad1tion of the internationally-famous BOSE 901 (• and 501 speakers. 
It provides such astound1ng performance for its size that, frankly, it's hard to believe that this speaker costs under $100. But it does. And, it's easy to place and can be adapted to all room environments. · 
Come in this week and ask to hear a demonstration of the new BOSE MODEL 301 Direct/ · Reflecting(ll) bcokshelf ~~·\Pl'ltllf•:·Jl:o:':~• 
speaker system. You really won't believe it ... until you t1ear it. 

Come You Fightin' Irish 
II ' 

® 'I \ 
-

WE'RE BEHIND THE IRISH 
CONGRA TVLA TIONS ON A FINE SEASON 
TO TOWN & COUNTRY ·FOR YOUR FAVORITE 







WINES-LIQUORS 
Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM 
LIQUOR • WINE 10% DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC 1.0. BEER· BEST PRICE IN TOWN VOLUME DISCOUNT FREE DELIVERY 
FREE DELIVERY 

.• 
Friday, March 5, 1976

10 the observer 
At Mock Convention • • • 
Bayh and Shriver recons1der Pres1dent1al goals 
by John O'DonneU the leading liberal candidates, moderate. Shriver would be an prominence. One in particular was The nomination standings prior 
Staff Reporter which at this point appear .to be effective compliment for both lib-heard to have said, "Shriver, he to Thursday evening indicate Jim-
In the Mock Democratic Conven· among Morris Udall, Hubert Hum-erals and conservatives." Thus doesn't have a blue-chance in hell. my Carter in command with 30 tion held at Stepan Center, both the phrey and Ted Kennedy. Walsh Shriver could prove as good a And as for Bayh, he represents no percent of the vote. Carter is Birch Bayh and Sargent Shriver anticipates opposition from the vice-president for either the con-influence upon anyone whatsoever. closely pursued by Kennedy, Hum­campaign committees are setting conservative forces of Jimmy Car-servative Carter or the liberal In this convention, everybody is out phrey and Udall, respectively. goals which don't include Presiden-ter, George Wallace and Henry Kennedy. to get Carter." This may be true, Both Walsh and Andersenem­tial nomination. While Bayh and "Scoop" Jackson. The Bayh Andersen statt that key states for for states which Carter dominates phasize the closeness of the cam-Shriver will run on the first ballot campaign does remain optimistic in Sh_river_ in this nomination are include Illinois, New Jersey, paign, and believe. that the out-tonight, campaign leaders of these believing that they will have strong Connettcut and Kentucky. He also Arkansas, Washington D.C., Alas-come will not be known until late candidates expect their influential influence in the nomination results. stressed that New York would be a ka, Georgia and South Carolina. tonight. Tonight, it is expected power to be concentrated else-Meanwhile, the Shriver commit-key state in general, for it remains Nonetheless, statements such ·as .that at least four or five ballots will where. tee is also scheming alternative basically undecided and is open to those may lead to heated and be presented, during which much 
Wendell Walsh, chairman of the goals; namely a vice-presidential several candidates.. Andersen con-interesting events tonight. negotiation will take place. Bayh campaign, stated that Ba~h nomination. Joe Andersen, the ce?e~ tha~ anot~er tmportant state, will be nominated as the Favonte chairman of Conneticut, reports Ilhnots, ts fatrly controlled by Son from Indiana. Once the first Shriver's position, "He's popular, Carter. ballot has been decided, however, but not as the first choice. He Several opponents of the Bayh 
tBOirA-s-HED~~----, 
Walsh mentioned that the Bayh could, however, do very well in and Shriver committees seem to be campaign would shift to support balancing the ticket since he is strongly pessimistic over their 

!EVERYONE WELCOME~ t t
Convention passes new planks 
t THIS FRIDAY AND EVERY t 
support of a national maintenance the elderly not on tlf original
(Continued from page 4) t t
income program for people below platform which was drawn up last
Rick LaSalvia, chairman of the the poverty level. This would be night after Riegle speech. t FRIDAY AT 5: 15 p.m. t Notre Dame Right to Life, said that 
designed especially for the elderly. Tonight's agenda features the
based on the two to one majority in t t
This suggestion was followed by nomination of the presidential can­favor of the pro-life plank he the delegates who passed an didate and Sen. Gary Hart ofbelieved that "we have a mandate amendment to the health care Colorado will be speaking. The to make Notre Dame a center for : Mass followed by dinner j
plank on the matter and an proceedings begin at 7 p.m. inpro-life activities during this elec­additional plank on health rare for Stepan Center. 
tion year.'' 
The other planks passed last night which were amended included foreign policy planks on Russia. China, the Third World, and the Mid-East, security, privacy, crime, family planning, and seniority. 
Several issues were decided only after long periods of debate over the amendments. Government security, criminal rehabilitation, school financing and drugs and marijuana were amended to a significanat extent. 
Planks which were passed but not amended in any way included national defense, campaign fin­ancing lobby reform, minority rights and urban problems. 
The keynote speaker for the evening, Congressman Don Riegle of Michigan, made several com­ments on the platform. "Most of what's here I personnally agree with," he said. He especially approved of the pl~n~ in favor ?f abolishing the semonty system 111 the Congress. 
Riegle made a suggestion that the delegates considel" a plank in 
Bowen cites SMC for bicentennial 
Indiana Governor Otis Bowen will present St. Mary's President John M. Duggan with a bicent­ennial flag and a certificate desig­nating St. Mary's an official bi­centennial college today at 4 p.m. This presentation will be held in Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall and is open to the public. 
The American Revolution Bicen­
tennial Administration designated 
St. Mary's as a bicentennial college 
in January. A school must plan 
activities and programs of lasting 
value in order to receive this 
special designation, according to 
Dr. Jack J. Detzler, chairman of St. 
Mary's Bicentennial Committee. 
Included in the activities planned at 
St. Mary's is a history of the school 
and a history ot the Holy Cross 
Sisters. 
ND~SMC Happy Hour at Kubiak's 
This afternoon from 3 to 6 p.m. 
the ND-SMC Freshman class is 
sponsoring a Happy Hour at Ku­
biaks. Pitchers will be $1.50. 
Buses will be provided for the 
freshmen leaving ND circle at 2:30, 
3:15, 4, 4:45, and 5:30, and Holy 
Cross Hall at St. Mary's at 2:35, 
3:20, 4:05 and 4:50. Cost of the bus 
ride will be $.50 round trip. 
Later that evening, the ND-SMC 
Freshman Council is co-sponsoring 
with ND Social Commission a free 
Disco Dance in LaFortune Ballroom 
beginning at 9. Prizes will be 
awarded for the best dancers ... , . 

--------~--------­

•

mone -sav tip 
rom yourfast friend in ·South Bend. 
Some people who fly West for vacation 
money, or in a shorter time, or with less hassle. 
break never get on a plane until they reach 
So flying United from South Bend is actually
Chicago. They don't realize they can save time, 
cheaper, quicker, and easier than rolling down 
trouble, even money by flying the friendly skies the toll road. from South Bend, instead of traveling by bus 
For Friendship Service to 59 cities from 
or car to O'Hare. 

South Bend, call your Travel Agent. Or call 
For example, one-way Coach airfare from 
United at 232-4811. 
South Bend to Los Angeles may cost $5.00 
Partners in Travel with Western Inter­
more than the same ticket from Chicago. But 
national Hotels. 

there's no way you can get to O'Hare for less 
The friendly skies of your land. 
"Saving you time. trouble. and money on your way West That's Friendship Service:· 
.. 

11--l 
l ~
Women have to battle stereotypes 
.,. .
'. • .:~ \<'' \.• ' I • 
Friday, March 5, 1976 
the' observer 

by Mary Rathburn and favor this arrangement. They being a woman is a handicap, and 
Staff Reporter noted that the practice of job­that a successful woman is wierd. 
sharing is becoming more accept­The woman who succeeds in Women have to fight against able but "you have to sell it to an business often feels she must be a strcotypes they grow up with and employer." Together they teach a "supermom" and "neat-as-a-pin" learn to assert themselves, said Jill Job Readiness course to prepare housekeeper as well, Kish noted. Soens and Sharon Kish, counsellors women to enter the work force. Some woman use pregnancy and from the Women's Career Center, "Our clients are between 16 and motherhood to avoid getting a job in an Assertiveness program last 63," they said. said Kish, admitting that a five­night in the Library Lounge. month futile job search made her
The Women's Career Center,
About 40 women and a few men think about having a third child as
located at 921 20th Street in South
participated in the freewheeling an "excuse."
Bend, also offers courses in Career
workshop sponsored by the Grad­uate Student Union. Margaret Grounds, GSU president, intro­duced the speakers. Soens and Kish remarked that 6.2 million American women are supporting families as heads of households and that many of them are working for less money and fewer benefits than a man would  Planning, Interest Testng, and Assertiveness Training. ''No Women is refused for financial reasons," said Kish; but suggested fees range from $10.00 to $15.00 per course. The counse­iors added that some women pay fees months later, after they have received a paycheck.  The audience then defined and described four types of behavior-­passive, agressive, passive-agres­sive and assertive. Although the terms "agressive" and "asser­tive" are often used synonymously, the group differentiated between them. Agressive behavior, they concluded, is characterized by im­patience, insensitivity, prejudice  
accept.  The  audience  participated  en­ and  rigidity.  Assertiveness  is  
"We don't assert ourselves for advancement. We don't think of pension plans, insurance, raises, or maternity leave benefits," said Soens. Women arc often asked illegal questions on application forms and propositioned sexually  thusiastically in a listing of stereo­types or "imprints" women gave grown up with. Phrases like "Girls don't take Shop," "You'll never get a boyfriend if you act smart," and "Let the boy win the game," were quite familiar to the audience.  honest, respectful of the opinions of others, responsible and not easil intimidated. Passive-agressive behavior was puzzling to the group at first but was easily recognized when the counselors pointed out the  
during job  interviews.  "This  is  "Stereotypes of women  tend to  "martyr" type, themanipulatorand  
why  assertiveness  training  is  put them in personal competition  the possessive parent belong to this  
important," Soens emphasizecl.  with other  women,"  one  woman  category.  
remarked.  Participants agreed that  Passive behavior often leads to  
Kish and Soens share a 40-hour  stereotyping tended to make them  stomach problems, ulcers and di­ 
job.  Both have pre-school children  feel that  woman are  inferior, that  verticulitis, said Soens.  Working  


Indiana primary field opens up 
INDIANAPOLIS AP Sen. Birch Oklahoma and Sen. Frank Church Hoosiers want a moderate who can Bayh's withdrawal as an active of Idaho. win in the fall. candidate in the Democratic presi­When Bayh dropped out after Petitions to put Jackson's name 
dential race has opened up the field poor showings in the New England on the primary ballot began circu­for the May 4 Indiana primary. primaries, many Hoosier Demo­lating Thursday. and his campaign What was once expected to be a cratic leaders began pushing Jack­coordinator, Bill Ezekiel, was sche­
one-on-one match between favorite son as a middle-of-the-road alter­duled to arrive here today. son Bayh and Alabma Gov. George native to Carter, Wallace and 
Marie Tibbs, of Speedway, one
C. Wallace now may become a McCormack. 
of the petitions coordinators forfour, five or six-way race. "Now I think we do need 
Mrs. McCormack, said the anti­Wallace was to become the first Jackson to offer to the people," abortion candidate already has
presidential hopeful to qualify for said Democratic State Chairman enotJgh signatures to get on thethe ballot today, filling his declara­Bill K. Trisler. "We couldn't ballot and will file next week.
tion of candidacy and accom­handle the phone calls from panying petitions with the secre­throughout the state asking for U.S. Rep. Morris K. Udall of tary of state's office. Jackson to come in. They want Arizona, now the leading liberal 
He probably will be opposed by someone to vote for other than contender for the nomination, also former Georgia Gov. Jimmy Car­Wallace, Carter and this Ellen has sounded out Indiana but may ter, Sen. Henry Jackson of Wash­McCormack." have trouble gathering the 500 ington, anti-abortion candidate El­Trisler said without Bayh and a signatures from each of the 11 len McCormack of New York and crowded field, he felt Jackson congressional districts before the possibly former Sen. Fred Harris of would win in Indiana because March 15 deadline. 
WANTED 

For sale: Ektelon "Beau Mark" racquetball racquet (metal) with 
Desperately need ride to Delaware 
Classified Ads
cover. Just restrung with staytite, 
or DC area for break. Tom, 1380. 
rubber grip. Perfect condition. $25 or best offer. 277-2306. A very natural thing. Gay Commu­
Riders wanted for break · Salt Lake 
nity of Notre Dame. Hotline, 8870,
City area. Jim, 272-9026. 
FOR RENT Fri. Sat. 8-10 pm. Or write, P.O. Box 206.
Need ride to Dayton for 2 this 
For Rent: Furnished houses, two to 
weekend. Please call K. B. at 
seven bedrooms. Available tor Sep. Typing, Former executive secretary4 4827. 
tember or June. Call 234-9364. experienced in senior essays, dis­sertations. 232-5715.
Desperately need to buy vehicle able 
Furnished 4 bedroom home, ND 
to transport, less than $60.00. Call 
area. $350 per mo. and utilities. Illinoisans: Does it strike you as 1108. 
616-445-3543, 8 am-5 pm. peculiar that a candidate from a state with hundreds of colleges and 
Want ride to and from Denver over 
Summer houses and rooms for rent. hundreds of thousands of students
spring· break. Will help drive and 
real close to campus. Furnished, has to come to Indiana to get
pay for gas. CAll Jim, 3258, late 
Ridicously reasonable. 233-2613 or campaign volunteers? It wouldn't if evenings or at lunch. 
232-7263. you knew Governor Walker's record on education. Mike Howlett wants1 need a ride to Boston for spring 4, 5, 6 bedroom houses completely you to make an intelligent decision 
break. Will share driving and 
furnished, extremely nice. Real about the governor's race and vote expenses. Call Sheila, 1253. 
close to campus. September 1976, 9 at home over break ..March 16. month lease. 233-2613 or 232-7263.
Need ride to Tidewater, Va. fro LOST & FOUNDspring break. Will help with expen­
2 rooms for rent, $40. Call233-1329. 
ses. Call Tom, 8938. 
found: Black umbrella at the bas­For rent next year . 5 bedroom, 2 ketball game Monday nile. Call 
Need ride to Minnesota, (St. Paul) 
bathroom furnished home. 9-month 1185. 
on Wed. March 10th. Tom. 6898. 
lease, near campus. Call 234-2626. 
Lost: Gold man's Benrus wristwatch Wanted: One rider to El Paso, Texas in front of Walsh, 1875.
NOTICES

for spring break. John. 8850. Lost: 2 St. Mary's school rings. If
Typing . former executive secretary,
2 rides lo and from Massachusetts found call, 4394.
experienced in senior essays, dis­
needed for spring break. Call Sally, 
sertations. 232
7942. LOST: aND '77 class ring Thursday
5715. 
nile, between Bengal Bouts and Ride needed for two going to Typing, 35t per page. Pickup and Senior Bar. If found, call LDu, 
Daytona Beach. Call Bill or Chris, 
delivery, $2.00. Call Dan, 272-5549. 272-3816. 6815. 
Morrissey LDan, last day to take out 
Keys lost, Flanner BB courts. Call Need ride to Oklahoma City or 1026.
loans is March 12. 
Tulsa. Call Karl, 3131. Earn $25.00 per thousand stuffing, 
Lost: At 2nd Floor Morrissey Party Desperately need ride to indianapo­last Friday, Dark blue "Farwest"
addressing envelopes at home. Send lis this Friday, return Sunday. CAll $1 .00 plus self-addressed envelope Ski Jacket. Must have back as is part 4067. to Heskey Associates, Box 821 FZ, of a matched outfit. Reward. Call Covington, Ky. 41012. 
Jerri at 4041. FOR SALE 
IBM Selectric II typing. Manu­PERSONALS For Sale: Blank 8-track 90 min. 
scripts, dissertation. Experienced.
Memorex tapes at a bargain price. 
Women of Walsh: Call Lisa, 8089. 
289-5193. 
Watch for PDQ. Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho,
Florida for Easter? Avoid the air· PARTY-ALL YOU SMC BABES
232-0746.
lines strike, and buy a '68 Buick ARE INVITED TO THE CAMPUS LeSabre In good condition. Call VIEW CELEBRATION THIS FRI·
Attention Minnesota Club Mem­
233-5030,7 pm-12 pm for details. 
.DAY NIGHT.
bers: Anyone who has or· neeas a' ' · 
.---:----:------------:-­
ride, contact me. Tom, 6898. · • · 
with women for the past year and a half, Soens has dealt with many passive women who come to the center for counselling and group assertiveness workshops. 
Soens and a half-dozen other women started the Women's Cen­ter on a shoestring with volunteer counsellors and donated space. They were funded by the Indiana office of Manpower, last May. The Center in South Bend is one of only two in the state and 300 in the country. 
Soens and Kish ended the three­hour program with a slightly­dwindled audience broken into small groups and enacting asser­tive behavior in various personal situations. 

D. Mm·ramP llt>tuls & Supplit'S
tnt 

Shop mu/ ('ompart• lu>fon• you /Ju_,. 
~ai]f!IJ~ /..,ar{.!t•.o;t lu•(u/ an(/ mm'rtlmt• 
r£._..· ~I} [l\ ~.Pd. . ~;upplit•.o; .o;t•lt•(·tion ;, ~fi:€Hfti~~-~. Mif'l1imw!
,'L~~,\:~. town & country ~'"--i~Ji·J _fr4 2340 miracle lane shopptng center ::f '-,.t-L mishawaka, indiana 46544 
. > 
219/256-0111 

MY HEART'S IN THE 
HIGHlANDS
~r\D 

With HEUO OUT THERE as an1ain ra1ser. 
(In conju11dion with the national Bicen­tennial Festival-"An Alrmst 
SMC 
Chosen ~pie")
THEATRE 

Tuesday, March 9 at 8:15P.M. 
0' LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM St. Mary's ADMISSION FREE BY TICKETS 284-4176 
,..""""""""""""""""""""""".,.,
i PRE-CANA i 
~ ~
I A special program for those II Notre Dame students and their ~ ~ partners preparing for marriage.~ISign up in the Campus Ministry ~ ~ Office in 103 Memorial Library ~ ~ before Spring Break. ~ 
~ a ~ 
~"""""""""""""""""""""""...illl 
~ 
.­
Let's go Flo!! Party902 NDave. Sat. March 6. Ladies with sunglasses in free. 
HAPPY 22 KAT BE~ULIEU!! THE CAMPII AWAIT YOUR FINALE. 
Junior Chegs: 

Has this week been a "happy" one. Finish it off happy even if it didn't start that way. Remember Friday's Happy Hour, 6:30 pm. 
Shall we dance? Waltzing party, March 6, 9 pm. LaFortune Ball· room, Tix $1.50. ND Music Dept. 
Coming attraction: Mea Ferrara's B-day, Sunday, March 7. 
P.S. from Zahm, 

How's your Gov. Financing? S.A. 
Hey Cutie! 
QUOTE OF THE WEEK: 

Ain't nothin' to it but to do it!! 
To Boris & Vladimir: Why do you call me? 1$ha 
There once was a chick named 0. D. 
Who crashed the SMC senior formal you see, She dressed to the max, And not a guy could relax, And now they're all looking for the she that's a he. 
Dear Fonz, I love you!! Raquel 
L.G. Hope you have smooth sailing In the Caribbean. Island Girl 
HEM BRA, I HOPE YOUR 21st IS THE BEST EVER!! TE QUIERO MUCHOI HH 
Community Service Directors, show up Sunday. LDve and kisses, Carol. 
John Delaney, Carol wants to meet you. 
Anyone interested in participating 
in the Mock Convention as a 
delegate or alternate contact: 
Mary Beth Miracky 
7813 
All states welcome. 
Why Pay more??? Get your green & gold, blue & gold, or red & blue rugby shirt for $13.00. Call Dave, 277-0948. 
LINDA SISSON: Where have you been keeping yourself this semester? 
ATTENTION: ALL M.E.I.O. STU­DENTS AND FACULTY: THE BIO· NIC PROFESSOR PREMIERS THIS SUNDAY DURING "SIX-MILLION DOLLAR MAN". BE SURE TO WATCH HIS STELLAR PERFOR· MANCE. 
Anyone interested in forming a Bernard King-Ernie Grunfeld fan club see Bill Borders. jack Daniels served at all meetings. 
SPONS, The "new you" makes our hearts flutter. KSM 
OISCO BABY: SAVE ME THE NEXT "MOON WALD AT THE LIBRARY... YOU'RE A GREAT TEACHER. WILL M.J. BE JEA­LOUS? 
Yes Steve Goett, 
I'll marry you. 
M. 
PARTY: HEEYYY, COME CA'rCH A BUZZ AT BOSSY'S PRE·BREAK 12 K EGGER AT CAM PUS VIEW COMMUNITY CENTER. FRIDAY NIGHT, 9 till 3 am.. 
Need ride for two to the Annapolis, Md. area. Call Anne, 7836. 
Driving to Milwaukee and need a rider? Take me along; ready to leave Friday at lla.m. Call Tom at 234-8952 . 
___...____________ 

• 

12 the observer Friday, March 5, 1976 
Irish accept Midwest tourney berth 
by BiU Brink -... ' Sports Editor 
Notre Dame was offered and has accepted an at-large berth in the Midwest Regional of the NCAA basketball tournament yesterday afternoon. The Irish will open up against the winner of the Metro-Six Conference next Saturday in Lawrence, Kansas. 
This will be the Irish's second bid in a row to the Midwest Regional. Last year they lost in the regional semifinals to Maryland in '.as Cruces, New Mexico. Two years ago they were knocked off in the semifinals of the Mideast Regional by Michigan. 
Notre Dame's opponent will not be determined until Saturday when the Metro-Six concludes their playoff for a tournament berth. Louisville, Cincinnati and Memphis State are the favorites. If the Irish win their opening game they'll advance to Louisville, Kentucky to face the winner of the Missouri Valley Conference (Wichita St. or So. lllinois)-Michigan t'ontest. to be played at N. Texas St. 
Other games in the Midwest Regional include Big Eight Champion Missouri against the University of Washington at N. Texas St. and Southwest Conference winner Texas A&M vs. the ECAC upstate New York division winner. 
Two opening-round Mideast Regional games will be played here at the Notre Dame ACC next Saturday. Big Ten Champion Indiana will squre off against the loser of the Rutgers-St. John's game and Mid-American Conference winner Western Michigan will battle either Virginia Tech, or the runner-up of the Big Eight (probably Kansas St.). 
All of the playoffs for tournament berths are expected to be completed by Saturday, and the final pairings wl11 be decided Sunday. 
t: Coach Digger Phelps and star player Adrian Dantley will lead the Irish into the Midwest re1donal next Saturday in lawrence, Kansas. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
/nterha/1 b-ba/1 playoffs continue
*Observer 
by Ray O'Brien 
The first round of the lnterhall Basketball playoffs were completed this week. Grace II. Cavanaugh I. Dillon I and St. Ed's I came out
Sports 
winners in Division I and advanced to the second round with Fisher I. Off-Campus III, Flanner III and Dillon III who earned opening round byes. The winers in Division 
Home-ice advantage on the line as icers face Wisconsin 
by Ernie Torriero 

Two years ago, Notre Dame traveled to Wisconsin facing possi­ble elimination from the playoffs. This year the Irish again journey to America's Dairyland to close out the season. Only this year, the roles are reversed with the Badgers needing a two-game sweep if they are to continue play this season. 
Indeed Wisconsin chances of making it to post-season play are very slim. The Badgers are mired in tenth place in the WCHA, four points away from Denver and Minnesota-Duluth. If Denver ma­nages one win or a tie versus Colorado College. the Wisconsin is eliminated from contention. 
The Irish situation is more complex. though more desirable. Notre Dame, 18-14-2, needs just one more point this weekend than Michigan to assure themselves of home-ice advantage in the first round of the WCHA playoffs. Michigan plays a two-game home­and-home series with second place Michigan State. 
However. should the Irish and 
Michigan, currently mired in fourth 
,

.. 
Donny Fairholm and the rest of the NO hockey team will be looking tor a sweep this weekend at Wisconsin (Photo by Tom Paulius). 
place with 32 points each, have the same kind of weekend, the Wol­verines would get the home-ice advantage and host Notre Dame because they scored more goals in the four games between the two teams. 
"We feel that from our play the past few weeks we are beginning to gel as a team," Notre Dame coach Lefty Smith explained. "We hope to have the same kind of momen­tum this weekend versus Wiscon­sin. It would be nice to end up in third place." 
Smith is hoping for a doubleirish win and a double loss by Minnesota. If Michigan were to split, the Irish would vault into third place and play Colorado College at home in the playoffs. 
''The league has been very up and down this year," Smith conti­nued. "Any club is capable of beating the other club in the league. Wisconsin, though in last place will be very tough this weekend." 
Crowds of over 8,000 are ex­pected for each game this weekend and the fans will be treated to inspired hockey. For the Irish to win twice this weekend, they once again must meet the challenges of a hostile crowd and of playing without two of their top stars. 

Premier right-winger Alex Pirus was ejected from Saturday night's contest for fighting. Second-line right-wing Kevin Nugent went the same route later in the evening. 
"Losing Pirus and Nugent isn't going to help us," Smith ex­plained. "The rules don't allow us to replace them. Yet our squad has fought adversity all year long. I think we are ready for the chal­lenge even though it will be very difficult for both clubs to play Sunday afternoon after having to play a game the night before." 
Wisconsin, in the midst of its worst hockey season in almost a decade, is 9-19-2 for 20 WCHA points. Sophomore defenseman Craig Norwich paces the Badger attack. The 5-11, 175 pound sophomore has netted 11 goals and 26 assists for 37 points. Center Mike Eaves is right behind with 35 points. Dave Herbst, another center is the Wisconsin goal-leader with 15 goals. 
Acting coach, Bill Rothwell, tak­ing over while Badger coach Bob Johnson is on leave with the Olympic team. places the goal­tending chores in the capable hands of Mike Dibble. Dibble. who had some personal problems at mid-season, posts a 4.9 goals­again!\! av~rage. 
IRISH ITEMS: The Walsh line has 
153 points on the season. Walsh 
heads the assist column with 43 
and Pirus is the leading goal-getter 
with 24. 
The Irish will headquarter at the 
Sheraton-Inn in Madison. The 
team will leave by bus late this 
afternoon and return Sunday fol­
lowing the game. 
The Irish and w;~consin have 
already met twice thL season. On 
December 5, the Irish gained a S-3 
victory as Brain Walsh netted the 
first Notre Dame hat trick of the 
year. The following night, Notre 
Dame's dimutive goalie Len Moher 
made 53 saves, including 26 in a 
scoreless second period, as the 
teams skated to a 2-2 overtime tie. 
II were Alumnill. Cavanaugh II, Pangborn II and Grace V. These four move into the semi-finals which will be played this Sunday. 
Division I 
Cavanaugh I boasted four men scoring double figures as they dumped Alumni II by a score of 53-44. Jim Singer and Bill Igoe both scored 12 points while Greg Garcia and Mike McGlinn added 10 to II points respectively. Alumni was up at the end of the first quarter and tied 21-21 at the half as both teams were shooting poorly. Cavanaugh opened it up slowly in the third quarter and then put it away in the fourth quarter. John Dubenetsky played brilliantly for Alumni taking game scoring honors with 19 points (scoring 16 of Alumni's points in the second half). 
Bill Flannigan added 10 points for the losers. 
The battle for basketball king in Grace Hall never came through as Grace III handed a forfeit win to Grace II. Grace II was 7-2 during the regular season while Grace III posted a S-4 mark. 
In one of the many close games in the playoffs Dillon I slipped by Keenan I by a score of 60-58. Keenan seemed to have this game under control in the first half as they raced out to a 31-24 lead. Dillon gradually came back behind several buckets by Chuck Mc­Pherson and Paul Martin. The lead switched hands several times in the second half. McPherson ended up with 16 points (11 in the second half) and Martin finished with IS points. Kevin Doherty also added 13 points. Mike Banks took game scoring honors pouring in 21 points for Keenan. The Wilks brothers, Dan and Greg, each scored 12 points in the losing cause. 
St. Ed's posted a minor upset in the closest game of the playoffs by edging Morrissey I 50-49. Morri­ssey went 7-1 during the regualr season and was the favorite in this game as St. Ed 'shad to win a playoff game to get a birth in the tournament. The game went as expected in the first half as Morrissey blazed to a 31-23 halftime lead and looked as though they were going to blow the game wide open. St. Ed's just kept chipping away atthe lead in the second half and nipped Morrissey n a hectic finish. St. Ed's relied on a very tough defense in the second half holding Morrissey to a mere 18 points. Dave Schlitchting and Mark Hardig led the way for St. Ed's scoring 14 points a piece. Tony Anzaone also broke into double figures scoring 10 points. Russ Lisch and Mike Vadas each scored 13 points fo! Morrissey. 
Division n An undefeated Alumni II team barely escaped the ending of their 
season in a 54-53 decision over Stanford III. Alumni, up by 10 points at the half way mark, had to hold off a late fourth quarter surge by Stanford to claim its victory. They were outscored 20-10 in the fourth quarter. Pete Green and Paul Kelley totalled 25 points in the first half for Alumni but were held to one point between them in the second half. Keeley finished with 15 points while Green scored 11 points. Jim Philbin als added 14 points for the winners. "Star of the game" had to go to Gary Thomp­son who led all scorers with 20 points. He scored 14 of hs 20 points in the second half with 10 points coming in the fourth quart­er. Dave Gorecki and Mark Ewald added II and 12 points respectively for Stanford. 
Cavanaugh III trounced Off­Campus VI by a score of 57-SO. Cavanaugh was led by Marty Koppenhaffer and Roman Klos who were both in double figures. 
O.C.VI remained close for a while but Cavanaugh broke it open in the second half. Cavanaugh Ill will meet Alumni II in the semi-finals Sunday night. 
Pangborn II stumbled past Keenan Ill by a score of 37-24. The defense was dominant throughout the game as neither team could assemble much of an offense. Keenan scored 10 points in the first quarter but could only manage 14 points the rest of the game. Pat Holmes and Mark Sheppard led Pangborn's attack with 10 points a piece. Andy Salitius scored 11 points in a losing cause. 
Grace V turned back Flanner IV 48-39 to advance into the semi-fin­als. Grace jumped to a quick 21·13 halftime lead and then just exchanged baskets throughout the second half. Grace relied on a balanced attack. Paul Hukel topped Flanner with 10 points. Grace V goes up against Pangborn II Sunday night. 
College scores 
ACC-FIRST ROUND 

Clemson 76 Wake Forest 63 Virginia 75 N.C. State 63 Maryland 80 Duke 78 
METRO-SIX-FIRST ROUND 
Georgia Tech 74 Tulsa 68 Memphis St. 73 St. Louis 69 
ECAC-FIRST ROUND Upstate Division 

Niagra 67 St. Bonaventure 66 Syracuse 83 Manhattan 57 
Metropolitan Division 

Rutgers 104 Long Island U. 76 St. John's 75 St. Peter's 67 
New England Division 

Connecticut 73 Massachusettes 69 Providence 64 Holy Cross 61 









