__________, ___" ---------------~----~--~---------, 

The 0 
server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XI, No. 49 Tuesday, November 16, 1976 
Chooses press secretary 
Carter announces plans 
PLAINS, Ga. AP • President-elect ian who has been with Carter for Jimmy Carter said yesterday he several years, would be fully expects Arthur Burns to continue authorized to speak for him in" as chairman of the Federal Reserve dealings with news media. Board, the key arbiter of the Carter said he will interview all nation's money supply. "My first his selections for major govern­inclination would be to work with ment posts. him harmoniously," Carter said. On other matters, Carter said: 
-He would pursue through diplo­

-Carter holding his second news 
matic channels his hope that the
conference since winning the elec­
sale of plants to reprocess pluton­
tion 13 days ago commented "I 
ium could be stopped. The nuclear 
would guess I could work well with 
power plant fuel can be used to
Mr. Burns." Last week Burns make nuclear weapons. 
warned of the dangers of stimula­
-The allocations of U.S. foreign

ting the economy too much, point­
aid would be affected by the
ing to possible renewed inflation. 
attitude of recipient countries to­
The Democratic platform on· ward human rights.

which Carter was elected and some of Carter's advisors have called for 
-Welfare reform would not be stimulation of the economy to deal 
deferred while he attempts to with unemployment and sluggish 
grapple with inflation and unem­economic growth. 
ployment. -He is not bound by the Demo­Carter generally declined to be . 
cratic party's plaYform pledge to
any more specific than he had 
move the U.S. embassy in Israel
been during the campaign about 
from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.
how to tackle the nation's economic 
-He was encouraged by Soviet

problems. 

World Hunger Coalition to sponsor letter drive 
by Maey Mungovan Senior Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's World Hunger Coalition is sponsor­ing its second annual Thanksgiving "Offering of Letters" drive to support a "World Food Reserve" resolution in Congress, Kitty War­ner, coalition representative, an­nounced yesterday. 
"We are urging everyone con­cerned with world hunger to write a personal letter to their senator, congressman or President­elect Carter as an act of Thanks­giving worship." Warner declared. 
''The letters will be offered at the offertory of the university Thanksgiving Mass on Nov. 22 at 10 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church," Kathy Rost. Chairman of the drive, stated. The mass will be celebrat­ed by university president Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. 
"The main drive of a World Food Reserve resolution is to protect the. poor from famine and unexpected disasters," Rost explained. "A food reserve would help to preserve price stability. preventing boom and bust cycles, and would guar­antee world food security," she added. 
The "Offering of Letters" is being sponsored nationwide by Bread for the World (BFW), a national Christian citizens lobbying movement, according to Warner. "BFW is trying to gain support for the drive on a parish and congrega­tional level," she related. Last year, BFW launched a similar letter-writing campaign in support of a "Right to Food" resolution which was .passed in 1976. 
"Last year's offering of letters generated 240,000 letters nation­wide and the impact this had on Congress and the President was dramatic and far-reaching," War­ner stated. "Again this year the offering can have immense effects on legislation and foreign policy," she added. 
On the ND-SMC campuses alone 250 letters were sent off last year. according to Rost. "This year our goal is 750 ·to 1,000,'' she project­ed. 
Rost indicated that United States participation in a world food re­serve would require storage of about 10 million tons of grain or-I percent of annual production. while the total world reserve would 
amount  to  between  56  and  81  
million tons of grain.  
"While  many  of  the  U.S.  re­ 

serves would be held bv farmers and private companies. asubstan­tial portion should be under direct government control for distribution during an emergency," she ex­plained. 
"As the world's major grain producer. U.S. participation is a key to the success of a world reserve," Warner stated. 
Rost emphasized this year's drive is aimed at the implementa­tion of last year's "Right to Food" resolution. The 1976 resolution stated that every person has a right to "a nutritionally adequate diet" and this right should be · 'recogniz­ed as a cornerstone of U.S. policy." 
Each residence hall will have a coalition representative with ad­dresses of U.S. senators and con­gressmen and facts about the world food reserve. Letters should be stamped and addressed to a par­ticular congressman or senator, U.S.House of Representatives of 
U.S. Senate, Washington. D.C. 


leader Leonid I. Brezhnev's state­He said he is not qualified "at ment about strategic arms limita­this point" to propose solutions to 

ND student lobby optimistic for
tion talks. 
unemployment problems. But he said he would meet with business Carter said disarmament would leaders, Democratic leaders of be a major subejct of his forth­

lowering of Indiana drinking age
congress and later with Burns and coming discussions with Secretary members of the President's Cabi­of State Henry A. Kissinger. by Mike Mullen and Rick Gregslre approach this year. couraging them to present their net. Though noting he had critized Staff Reporters Klingenberger's program is divi­views to the legislators. After opening the news confer­the Ford administration for lack of ded into two main parts. The first 
Klingenberger commented that a ence with a description of how he progress in the SALT negotiations phase is the information-gathering united effort with other collegewould pick top administration offi­with the Soviets, Carter said no With this year's election two procedure. It involfes gathering lobbies and the subsequent organi­cials and saying none had yet been that the election is past there would weeks behind, the Notre Dame statistics on drinking and driving in zation of supportive data and selected, Carter announced that be no point in pursuing the student lobby to lower Indiana's states with the lower drinking age, educational materials will give the campaign press aide Jody Powell criticism any farther. drinking age has begun what it automobile insurance premiums in bill its needed thrust. 

would be his White House press hopes -will be a successful cam­these states, and background infor­
He said he might push for an 

secretary. paign. Lobby President Jerry mation on the state legislators and Both Klingenberger and Student
extension of the present agreement Klingenberger is optimistic that the voting patterns of their constit­Body President Mike Gassman lookHe said Powell, a young Georg-if a new. agreement is not reached the bill will be passed in January's uencies. The second phase invol­upon the bill's passage as a legislative session. Last year's ves distributing this information to "motivative source" for increased resolution was defeated by a nar­legislators and other college lob­campus social activity. They stated row margin. bies. that drinkers would become more 
Last year's attempt, Klingen­The group has already contacted responsible since drinking would berger said, lacked the organiza­various members of state liquor no longer be illicit. tion necessary for successful pas­lobbies and plans to follow up on Pending passage in the state's sage of the bill. Notre Dame's the alcohol abuse program. It is January session, the bill would 
lobby, which is recognized as the also in the process of distributing become Law Julv I. 1977. Gass­state's strongest and most influen­booklets for Notre Dame students man stated that the Administration tial collegiate lobby. has composed who are Indiana residents provi­would then support the presence of a more organized and, authoritative ding authoritative information en-a campus bar. 



HPC established at SMC 

by Anne Bachle body president. 
Staff Reporter "The HPC is also different because now the group has a constitution," Student Body Presi­
The Hall Life Commission at St. dent Mary Lou Bilek, explained. Mary's College was abolished, and "The group never had their duties a Hall Presidents' Council was defined before." established in its place, by a In explaining why the HLC was unanimous vote at a special meet­abolishe,P. Bilek commented, "The ing of the SMC Student Assembly Hall Life Commission simply held last night. . proved inadequate for the needs of 
The HPC assumes all duties ot 

student government." the Hall Life Commission and like "Working through the hall presi­its predecessor, includes the four dents, we have a unique ability to hall presidents and one represen­get to each student on campus," tative from Augusta Hall. The vice said Susy Gauthier, McCandless president for Student Affairs will Hall president and chairman of the serve in an advisory capacity for HPC. "We felt this s_hould be used the HPC. more often. We'll be able to attend 
Other differences between the Notre Dame's HPC meetipgs, and newly-formed HPC and the HLC they can attend ours. Some of the are that the HPC has the ability to women's dorms especially have form and approve committees and expressed an interest in fhis." 
This "issue" of the Observer hung on the side of Keenan Hall in that the HPC's head will be elected Gauthier said she envisions the 
preparation for last Saturday's game, excellently predicted the by the group. The head of the HLC 
two groups working side by side. outcome. [photo by Tony Chifari] had been appointed by the student "We have a lot of t!-:e same 
problems, so we can discuss these now on an equal basis. We also hope to be able to work. together with the Notre Dame HPC on various social and academic activi­ties that come up.'' 
Important information about Senior 


Class trip 
~ 

I 
l 1 
l 
• • .see page 3 

2 the observer Tuesday, November 16, 1976 
,.---News Briefs--......... Peking jolted by earthquake 



UPS strike talks stalled 
WASHINGTON -Ban~!ainers for the Teamsters Union and United Parcel Service continued yesterday to try to remove the remaining obstacles to an agreement that would end an eight-week strike against the package delivery service. Union officials, unhappy over the disclosure Friday of basic agreement on the major issues darned a news blackout on the talks. 
Carter orders"people's inaugural" 
WASHINGTON -President-elect Jimmy Carter, shun­ning the top hats and fancy hoopla of the previous inauguration, has order a "people.'s inaugural" for his Jan. 20 oath-taking. "The greatest concern of the President-elect is that we reached the maximum number of people possible and involve the whole country in the inauguration," said Bardyl R. Tirana, co-chairman of Carther's inaugural committee. "He wants to receive anyone who comes to Washington for the inauguration. He wants an open inauguration." 
.,_.._On Campus Today---..~ 
3 p.m.-workshop. "resume clinic" by karen o'neil, smc. room 170, lemans hall. 
3:30p.m. -computer course. "command procedure (clist) pro­gramming in mvs" (for experienced tso user only). room 114, computer center/math bldg. 
4:30 
p.m. -seminar. control of renal blood flow in mammals" by dr. rodney harvey, univ. of minnesota medical school. galvin aud. cosponsored by viology dept. and south bend center for medical education, indiana univ., school of medicine. 

4:30 
p.m. -lecture. "the decay of our buildings and monuments: can it be stopped?" by dr. erhard m. winkler, n.d. room 101, earth sciences bldg. 


5 p.m. -ballotting. "biggest turkey on campus" contest. one 6:30p.m.• penny buys one vote. notre dame dining halls. 
7 p.m.· "summer job program," smc junior class meeting. co-sponsored by smc junior class and career develop­ment center. stapleton lounge. 
7:30 p.m•• panel discussion. "world within world" with gerald I. jones, n.d. douglas kinsey, n.d. and john j. kozak, n.d., library lounge. 
7:30p.m.• meeting. charismatic prayer meeting. Iafortune student center. 2nd floor room d. 
7:30 
p.m. • lecture. "various aspects of nutrition in the united states" by dr. bernard wostmann, n.d. library aud. sporrsored by world hunger coalition. 

7:30 
& film. "shane" engineering aud. sponsored by cinema 10 p.m.· '77 tickets $1. 


8 p.m.-reading series. really good fiction reading series presents walter abish, author of alphabetical africa and minds meet, reading from his own fiction. special collections room, library. 
8 p.m.-concert. "the chieftains" o'laughlin aud. tickets: $4 general, $3 students. 
8 p.m. -show. royal lipizzan stallion show. ace tickets: $6, $5 & $4. 
10 p.m. -meeting. fr. Iaiiy will answer questions for all potential ra candidates in morrissey hall lobby. 
Breen-Phillips to sponsor Turkey contest 

Breen-Phillips Hall will sponsor its second annual "Biggest Turkey on Campus" contest starting Tues­day, Nov. 16. 
Voting will be held in the dining halls during the dinner meal Tues­day, Wednesday and Thursday, Nov. 16-18. Participants may vote for any student, faculty or adminis­trative member of their choice for a penny a vote. All proceeds will go to the United Way Fund. 
The winner will be announced
) 
Friday and will receive a free 1 dinner for two at the Morris Inn. 

r*The Observerl 
Night Editor: Debbie Dahrling 
Asst. Night Editor: Leigh Tu­nakan 
Layout Staff: Thanks! Fred Kunzinger Editorial Layout: Chris Smith Sports Layout: Fred Herbst 
Typists: Kitty Conklin, Susan Shellenburger, Mel Celeste, Kathy Egbert 

E.M.T.: Karen Chiames Day Editor: Mary Pat Tarpey l~opy R.~~der: Cathy Nolan J 
TOKYO [AP]-A strong earthquake and 6.8 on the Richter scale. That jolted Peking yesterday, swaying would indicate a quake capable of high-rise buildings and reviving extensive damage, but consider­grim memories of the killer quake ably weaker than the massive four months ago, Japanese reports earthquake in northeast China last said. July 28. 
Foreigners based in the Chinese 

The Richter is a measure of capital, reached by telephone from 
ground motion as recorded on Hong Kong, said there was "no 
seismographs. Every increase of one whole number corresponds to avisible damage" and there were no ten-fold increase in ground motion. 
immediate reports of casualties. Earthquake monitoring stations 
A reading of 6 is considered a strong quake; 7 means a major
around the world said the quake struck about 9:54 p.m. (9:54 a.m. earthquake. , EST) and measured between 6.5 
The July quake measured 8.2, 

~-Seniors to sponsor retreat 
by Tim Creagan Staff Reporter 
The Senior Class is sponsoring a non-religious retreat to Michigan City on December 4. 
"The purpose of the retreat," said Estelle Broussard, co-planner of the retreat with Steve Plain, "is mainly for seniors to get away from campus and talk to other seniors.'' 
Although a priest and nun from Campus Ministry will be present on the retreat, it will not be of a religious nature. It will be the first retreat run and coordinated entire­ly by seniors. "We approached Sr. Jane Pitz, assistant director of the Office of Campus Ministry, with the idea," said Broussard, "and she gave us her full cooperation." 

"The focus of the retreat," according to Broussard, "will be on 
Frosh council elects officers 
The Freshman Advisory Council 
has announced the election of its 
officers for the remainder of the 

year. Curt Hench will serve a 
chairman, Michelle Renaldo as 
secretary and Jose Marrero as 
treasurer. 
·1 · 
Th f h
e purpose o t e counct ts to
· d r · b t f h 
provt e a tatson e ween res men and the Freshman Year of Studies office by reporting on general conditions affecting their class. 

the residence halls and off-campus
students. Council members are: 
Andy Rauh, Alumni; Irish Bertke, Badin; Bridget McNamara, Breen-Phillips; Richard Pinkowski, Cava­naugh; Michael Reff, Dillon; Bar­bara Digangi, Farley; George Blan­thorn, Fisher; Andv Baan, Flanner; Art Hennessey, Grace; Stephen Shaw, Holy Cros:;; Tom Haller, Howard; John Dillane, Keenan; Barbara Lach, Lewis; Michelle Renaldo, Lyons; Robert Del Genio, Morrissey;· Jose Marrero, Pang­born; Diego Pena, St. Edward's; Brian Woulfe, Sorin; Curt Hench, Stanford; Julie Lennon, Walsh; Carl Ribaudo, Zahm; Sara Yang; 
Off-cam us. 
Relax between studies -
Sportscrafts has a com­
plete line of hobby and 
aaft supplies at reason­
able prices. Special dis­
counts to model club 
members. Owned and 
operated by N.D. grad. 
(class of '56). See Sport­
crafts, at the Sport cen­
ter. Just 4 miles north of 
the campus on U.S. 31 
North. 

Sportscrafts 51400 US 31 N. 272·5300 

gettmg to know the other seniors present and on retlecting on the three major questions which face seniors. These questions are: 
'What have I gotten out of Notre Dame in three and a half years;' 
'What do I hope to get out of it in the remaining semester and a half;' and 'What will I do after gradua­tion.'" 
The planned activities include group dynamics, to put the partici­pants at ease, and a liturgy service. This is tentative, since activities are still in the planning stages. 
Interested seniors may register 
at the Office of Campus Ministrytoday through Nov. 22. Cost is $4.50, which includes food and 
transportation. A minimum de--rOg posit of $3 is required. • Ff Ull The cut-off wili be at 30 people, In • rrayn e although the retreat may be re-British rock Group Foghat has 
peat~d in the spring,, if enough been signed for a Thursday Dec.2 interest is expressed. . concert at Ft. Wayne Coliseum, Buses for the retreat will leave according to Celebration Produc­
on Saturday, Dec. 4 at 3 p.m. and tions. The James Gang and Be Bop return on Sunday at 3 o.m. Deluxe will open the show. 
Tickets for the Dec. 2 Foghat Tht• Ob~erwr is published Monday concert in Ft. Wayne are available through Fnday and weekly dunng locally at The River City Review 
the summer ~P<;sion, PXlPpt during r· k I J f
the t>xam and vacation penods The tc et out ets: ust or the Record Ob<>Prver 1s publ1shed by students of (100 Center), Boogie Records (Col­tht• Lln1vNs1ty of Notre Dame and lege Square), Record Joint (Niles) St Mary's College Subsmptions and Suspended Chord(Eikhart). may be purchased for $20 per year The River City ticket agency also 
($10 per semester) from The Obser­
ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana has tickets on sale locally for this
Friday's J. Geils Band/James46556 Second clas~ postagP paid,

NotrP Dame, Indiana 46556 Gang concert at Kalamazoo's 
The Observer is a membPr of the Wings Stadium, and for the Nov. As<;ociated Press All reproduction 30 Black Sabbath concert sched­rights are reservPd uled for Wings Stadium.
® 
and unofficial-reports told of tens of thousands dead and vast devasta­tion in the industrial city of Tangshan, 100 miles southeast of Peking. The quake's effects were felt in the Chinese capital and in Tientsin. The official chinese media carried no reports about yesterday's tremor. 
The Peking correspondent for Japan's Kyodo news agency said the 15-story building housing his office was rocked and some resi­dents in the capital's foreign alcave rushed screaming into the streets. 
· The newspaper Asahi reported power blackouts in some of Pe­king's high-rise buildings and said foreign residents evacuated to their respected embassies. 
But Peking residents reached 
through Hong Kong denied any 
panic among the city's six million 
population and said people went 
about their business as usual. 
Foreign monitors said yester­day's tremor was centered in norther Hopei province, same as the July quake, indicating that the latest jolt was probably an after­shock of the July quake. 
China has never announced the casualty toll or extent of damage for the July quake in Tangshan, a city of 1.6 million. 


Tix available for r:: h t rf


a conce 

Represented on the council-are ~;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;!._____..:.____~--, 
-~--~-~~ ...  ~-~ ,·r 1'1!),·chard'~ ~ n U ~  .--­.·  .  
HAIR $JYitlle  
Member of  1976  --~  Award Winning  
State  Hairstyling  FORMEN& WOMEN  Stylist  
277-0734  129 Dixieway South  277 ·0734  

(31 N in Roseland, half mile N. of Campus) 
Two-Year Scholarships Now Available The Navy will pay the tuition and furnish books plus $100 a month subsistence for your Junior and Senior Years at college, if you can qualify for one of our special 2-year NROTC Scholarship pro­grams. For further information, no obligation of course, call 283-6442. ' 




. I 


May dedication announced for SMC recreation center 
by Denisa Lynk Staff Reporter 

The dedication planning commit­tee of the new Saint Mary's recreation building announced May 6, 7 and 8 as the dates for the dedication ceremonies. 
The tentative schedule of events for the weekend are as follows: 
On Friday, May 6, ceremonies will begin with an opening dinner with invited guest panel of women athletes. The events for Saturday, May 7 include the dedication of the building, a college open hours and athletic exhibition by students. 
A special mass and picnic will wind up the weekend ceremonies on Sunday, may 8. 
Mary Lou Bilek, student body president, stated "the present student body has donated over 16,000 in the past two years to this 
building. building year."  will  I'm be  excited dedic that ated  the this  
I 

SMC plans 

Thurs. banquet 
by Honey McHugh 

Staff Reporter "Let's be thankful for what we've got" is the theme of the annual Saint Mary's Thanksgiving Banquet to be held in the campus dining hall on Thursday, Nov. 18. from 4:30-6:15. 
Background music will be pro­vided by Kevin Brown, singer in the lounge of Holly's Landing Restaurant. The menu will include turkey. dressing and all the tradi­tiomil trimmings. 
Following dinner. a Thanksgiv­ing Mass will be celebrated at 6:15 in the Church of Loretto sponsored 
• by Campus Ministry and Student Government. All students, faculty and administration of St. Mary's and Notre Dame are invited. 
'.'We're hoping all of the stu­dents will attend the festivities,'' states Mary Ann Stolze, vice president of Student Affairs, "It would be a nice tradition to start and continue with every year.'' 



CCUM welcomes new chairman; new goals outlined for future 
The Catholic Committee on Ur­ban Ministry (CCUM) observed its . lOth anniversary by welcoming a new chairman, Rev. Philip J. Murnion. In the annual fall conference, held at Notre Dame Nov. 7-11, Murnion outlined direc­tions for the CCUM's future. 
"We are a people of hope," he told some 500 participants, "not the illusory hope that all will soon be made perfect,· but the realistic hope that in the midst of persistent injustice and racism and sexism and exploitation of one another and of the endowments of the earth, in the midst of hunger and sickness and loneliness and despair, we are graced with the capacity to give new meaning to our lives and to set a new course for our future." 
CCUM is a supportive network of priests, religious and lay people 
Members of the committee are SMC President John Duggan, Harry Brown, chairman, Mary Lou Leighton, vice-chairman, Stevie W ernig, assistant dean of Student Affairs and Mary Lou Bilek, stu­dent body president. 
Other members are Sister Alma Peter, C.S.C. community, Sister Katherine Reichert, campus minis­try, Dan Horning, sociology depart­ment chairman, and Mary Gerber, director of special events and programing. 

Taxi drivers needed for trip to Florida 
By Craig wmbardi Staff Reporter 

The Checker Cab Company needs student drivers to deliver several cabs to West Palm Beach. 
Florida during the Thanksgiving recess. according to Evelyn Gran. Gray is an employer of Auto 
Driveaway. Inc. in Elkhart. Stu­dents must be 21 and possess a valid driver'slicense. Gray explained students may form groups to drive one cab. Each 
cab has room for five passengers plus baggage. Also. the company 
will provide a full tank of gas plus
$25 for travelling expenses. 

~;;~ ·= BAZAAR 3 


: Dec. 7, 8, & 9 ~ 
~ Anyone interested in having ~ ~ a booth Call -4833 or " ~ Write P.O. Box 1221 HC ~ -~ ~~ 
Return transportation. however. is not guarenteed. A student may check with offices in Florida to see if cars need to be delivered to the South Bend area. 
Any students interested should 

make reservations a week in ad­vance by calling the South Bend office 232-1414, or the Elkhart office at 264-9636. A $100 deposit must be made at this time. It will 
~fo;~:~.nded upon safe delivery in~~...,..Qt.~NIIGjhS..II1_if9i
...lll~llflt!a.,~, ~ l:?"' 8 "i"'SJ Y 'SI Y .. 8 '-"" Y A Y ~ Gray stated t.hi~. program is_ P~~ SMC SOCIAL C?tMMISSION 
of the company s casual servtce . d .. Instead of hiring professionals the~ SOOnSOfS he ~ 
company fulfill~ its re~ponsibilities~ M'\


CHRISTMAS 
to the students beneftt. ~ -.,p 
offering CCUM's support in the ALL SHOWS 7:30 ':. 10:00 p~ ENG. AUD. ONE DOUA. itnplementation·plta'Se: ·· · • ·'• •• · ~~H~•~.._~.....,.~~·.-....~......,...,.~........,...,.~,..,.., 
Tuesd~, November 16, 1976 the observer 
3 

Senior class USC trip activities to be announced at meeting 
~Peggy Shumaker StaffReporter 

All students going on the senior class trip must attend a mandatory meeting. Wednesday, Nov. 17 at 7 pm, in Washington Hall. 
Each student is expected to present his or her own ID to receive the trip packet and itinerary. A travel agent will be present to explain bus and plane loading, baggage limits. plane and room captain responsibilities, car rentals and procedures for the return trip. 
Senior class trip chairperson, 

Mike Miller will explain activities 
taking place in Los Angeles. NBC 
has placed a restriction on the 
number of tickets available for the 
Roemer cancels 
appearance at 

HPC meeting 

Dean of Students. James Roemer will not appear at HPC meeting due to a prior commitment. However. Roemer will address the HPC at next week's meeting. 
Tomorrow night's meeting is at 

6:30 pm in the Grace Hall Pit.­
who are active in social ministry. Murnion told the group that CCUM is about empowering people, "the tough and patient work of assisting people to make their own decisions about life." 
He described the organization's constituents as people who believe in the importance of systems of justice but who now are ready to 
, criticize, and try to ~hange those systems which do not meet the norms of liberty and justice. However, he cautioned against becoming so busy changing sys­tems that "we neglect or exploit the individual in need." 
In his outline of goals for the 

future. Murnion said CCUM will: --continue to effect coalitions among groups who are strugggling to create a just .society, 
--support the effort of women's liberation in Church and society. 
--expand the work of community organization as a primary tool for empowerment of people. 
The theme of the conference was "Toward Empowerment." Partic­ipants spent much of the five-day meeting in small group workshops where they shared information and taught each ot~er the skills of community organizing. 
Murnion also read a statement sent to Archbishop Joseph Bernar­din, president of the National Conference of CAtholic Bishops (NCCB), by the CCUM board of dir~ctors, thanking the bishops for their leadership in the ''Call to Action" program of the NCCB and 

SMC Notre Dame, IN 
46556 

48"1r""1J~"-"~"fJ 
CINEMA 77 :

THE GREAT 
i 


WESTERNS •• 
A Film Festival 3 SHANE NOV16 
4 THE MAN WHO SHOT 
LIBERTY VALENCE NOV17
5 LONELY ARE THE BRAVE NOV 18 ~ 
Thursday Nov. 25 NBC studio tour and Johnny Carson Show, Miller stated. 
169 people sent ~hecks to the Observer office for tickets but only 150 are available through NBC. On Wednesday night the people who will not be able to go will be announced and their checks re­turned. Because NBC studio wants only one check. the people who will be able to go will also have their checks returned and asked to make new checks payable to Mike Miller in the same amount. All people who have purchased tickets and no longer wish to attend are urged to sell them to other students going on the trip. 
A head count will also be taken on Wednesday night concerning all 
Your Source for the Unusual in Diamonds and Precious Gems Platinum and Gold Jewelry 
'fou'll find untold treasures of the finest qual it¥ brought to you by tMe eye of an expert... And sold with the care of a professional." 



Insurance appraisals and purchases of fine diamonds and estate jewelry provided 
·Graduate Gemolog1st Gemolog1cal lnst1tute of Amenca 'Fellow Gemmolog1st Gemmolog1cal Association of Great Br~\a1n • B A .. lnd1ana Un1vers1ty 

Lobby St. Joseph Bank Building South Bend. Indiana Telephone: 287-1427 
John M. Marshall's 


(1"'\t.aiMond f\,Nipo"t Co&ltpanu

'-U rn ¢/rrt /l ::J 
Your Source for the Unusual 

• ..... · ,•• ­• 
students who want to purchase discount tickets to Disneyland for Friday Nov. 26. The Notre Dame Orange Alumni Club located across the street from Disneyland will horb a pep rally on Friday night. A final order for the tickets will be taken by plane captains. 
To kick off the trip on Tuesdav Nov. 23. Senior Bar will have Senior Trip Night. Beer will be $.30 all night and raffle tickets will be on sale for parking permits on the USC campus. 
The trip committee has complete lists of all the activities and students signed up for them. It i~ essential that each person be present at the meeting Wcdnc'>­f day. 


*The Observer 
anindependentstudentnewspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College It does not necessarily rPflect the policiL'S of either institution. The news is reported d~ accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen(aries, opinions and letters are the views of their author~ Column space is available to all members of the LOrnmunity, and letters are encouraged to promote the free Pxpression of varying opinions on campus. 
Bu-;iness Manager Tom Fronczak Adwrtising Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor Tony. Chifari Production Manager Martha L. Fanning 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Phones: (219) 283-8i61 [NO] (219) 284-5365 [SMC] 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

Thomas O'Neil  Editor-in-Chief  
Dan Sanchez  Managing Editor  
Chris Smith  Asst. Managing Ed.  
Gregg Bangs  Executive Editor  
Val Zurblis  Executive Editor  
Pat Hanifin  Editorial Editor  
Bob Mader  Exec. News Editor  
Maureen Flynn  Campus Editor  
Marti Hogan  St. Mary's Editor  
Don Reimer  Copy Editor  
Tim O'Reiley  Features Editor  
Fred Herbst  Sports Editor  

Tuesday, Nov. 16, 1976 



"What makes you think you have the flu?" 



P.O.BoxQ~ 
Osmond 

to come 
Dear Editor: 
I am making every possible attempt to secure the services of Marie Osmond for the 19th Annual Collegiate jazz Festival. I can assure that the criteria used to select guest· artists are in the best interest of our culturally attuned student body. Among th~ criterion employed are the following: 
A) at least four gold albums 
B) guest appearance on the "Sonny and Cher Show" 

C) one cover story minimum in Rolling stone, Crawdaddv. Slsteen and a review bv The Observer 
D) at least tw~ appearances with Dick Clark and ··American Band­stand" 
E) and finally. I can assure you that I will check with Tom O'Neil to make sure that he personally possesses at least one recording of the artist selected. 
'' 
Yours in Objectivity, Michael T. Dillon Chairman,,C.J.F. XXI 
P.S. This letter was unsolicited. 
Dillon Hall strikes again 

Dear Editor: 
On the night that the first good snow hit South Bend, a group of Dillon residents gathered outside Morrissey for a snowball fight. Most of the Manor's residents were listening to Digger Phelps in the lobby and ignored the challenge. The Dillon Men (men?) decided to use Morrissey itself for target practice. breaking several windows and greatly inconveniencing those of us who prefer to keep our 
windows in their frames during snow storms. 
The Dillonites have been back since to prove to everyone that they can throw a snowball at the broad side of a dorm without missing. 
I would like to suggest that, if Dillon's residents feel they will be needing a building-size target for 
the  duration  of the  winter.  they  
should  throw  snowballs  at  their  
·own dorm.  
Mike Decker  

Morrissey Resident 


Upholds Soph Lit Fest 
Dear Editor: 
Your comments about the Sopho­more Literary Festival are entirely unfounded. 
After all, with such great literary giants as Hortense Calisher (did I spell it right?) and Lara Riding Jackson (who?), who could possibly want someone as relatively un­known .as Kurt Vonnegut, Normal Mailer, Gore Vidal. Ursula LeGuin, Arthur Miller, Richardtleller, to name but a few? 
(Name withheld by request] 

Carter Creed 
Dear Editor: I believe in one Carter, the President elect, Redeemer of our present chaos, and the choice ofthe American people. He was born in Plains, suffered under the Republi­can· party, was elected, sworn in and inaugurated. He started in Plains, but on the 20th of January he will rise again and be seated at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. From thence he will come to help the poor and not so poor. I believe in one Walter Mondale, the best choice to be made. The perfect 
team member, and the resurrection of our country now and forever. 
Name withheld by request 
Anti-ND 
column 

not fair 
Dear Editor: 
The opi11ion column of Robert Jacques' ("The Myth of Notre Dame") in Wednesday's Observer greatly troubled me, for I hardly recognized the school which has become an important oart of me. I believe that Mr. Jacques became so involved in his gross criticisms of the University and its students that he did them an injustice, and at the same time overlooked the essense of Notre Dame. 
"The Myth of Notre Dame" is a myth insofar as it cannot be realized by the student who sits back and waits for the University to come to him. Rather, the strength of Notre Dame lies in what it allows a student to make of himself. Certainly, many of the students choose not to utilize the resources available, and interest themselves only in their GPA and other self-serving ends. However, to make such a broad generalization as' Mr. Jacques did is highly inaccurate. I, for one, feel quite at home as a "seeker" at Notre Dame. 
I don't mean to say that the University is flawless, and certainly Mr.· Jacques made some valid points. However, I fail to see the constructive value of such an overwhelmingly negative and exag­gerated statement. Rather than merely criticize the University, as is so easily done, let us look in more positive directions to improve its faults and bring its "myth" and reality closer together. 
Bob Jones, Jr. 


Doonesbury 
IJH..5/{{)(j/..{} f»..'T

RICK! (J}IJLIJ YOU 
I? I MEAN, afJRRY-MY

Til& AVSIIi:Rn; 
Pfi(Nol£! JOAN!£? 
.;RIN6l IT5 '!WI< HJ!JI£K5 
RING! PIDV£/ IN FRANCE!

I I'M !NlHC. 
......._

SHJJJ£R!-.... 
15 7HIIT YOV, RICK.? 
I 

opinion!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 

Pssst ... 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii terry finegan 
"Pssst...Hey, you want to spend a free nine months in the exotic Orient? Just sign up for the year-in-Japan Program." This and many other methods have been used to try , to sell the Tokyo experience to freshmen. And yet, yearly this program draws few students. 
Few year-abroad returnees are more enthusiastic about their ex­periences than Domers from Tok­yo. Scholastically, Domers from nearly every major have gone, and still graduated with their class. The possibilities of tying your exper­iences with your vocational goal are very real. Maybe you would just like some time away from Notre Dame, to travel and see the world froma students' perspective. 
But more importantly, the Year­in-Japan students gain new ways of viewing the world. The way in which you see the world, its people, and its problems is necessarily tied to your personal experiences. The more you experience, the broder your base, and the better chance you have to relate to the various types of people and problems you will encounter. 
No one can doubt the validity of a Notre Dame education. Notre Dame is an acknowledged leader in undergraduate studies. But, as a teacher remarked recently, it is a provincial education. , World and national issues seem to bypass Notre Dame, as life here eoes on unfettered by external diversions. Certainly students leave here with a firm grasp of their particular field, but well-proundedness, not specialization, should be the goal. 
Surely, ·you have read other atticles extolling the values of the year-abroad experience: the fri­ends, the good times, the troubles, and the aloneness; reflection, men­tal expansion, and positive growth; increased sensitivity to the needs of otehrs and of yourself, new insights into the meanin_g of self, etc. etc. etc. Basically, either you buy it or you don't. 
If you do not buy such "trash," please find fulfillment, in the tranquility, unity and narrow boundaries of your provincial edu­cative process. If you believe there couls be some truth in the matter, see if Japan might be for you. 
Japan. What connotations does this world bring to you? An "in­scrutable" slant-eyed Oriental, a geisha girl, a pair of chopsticks, rice and raw fish, Mt. Fuji, Sumo wrestlers? Or do tou thing of the Sapporo Olympics, Tokyom, Sansui and industrial capacity? To me, its all these and much more, a land of enchantment that so captured my soul that I will be back there this summer. A place where Americans are generally respected and liked. An island where the people admire you for struggling with their langu­age and· their culture. A trip I'll never regret having made. 
But still, why Japan? Why not Europe, or Mexico or Taiwan? Because realistically, you probably don't qualify for any of those places. Only the Tokyo Program has no language requirements, anq the rate of acceptance to applicants is very high. Besides Japanese friends, you can also meet students from dozens of other countries, because of the English-speaking International Division of the Sophia University has students from around the globe. • 
Additionally, there is no "Little Notre Dame" in Tokyo. While fourty other Domers can offer a sense of security in an alien culture, it seems more beneficial to be forced into new friendships, with Japanese, with other national­ities, and with Americans outside the sphere of the Dome. 
For me, the Year-in-Japan Pro­gram is only a membory, a dream, an irresponsible period of contin­uous happiness; we were carefree and fun-loving, awa~ing eagerly each new challenge with which to measure ourselves. I do not realistically expect any other ten ·month period to campare to my , sophomore year Asian sojourn. It was the idyllic last hurrah of teenagerdom. Everyday was a new experience, and every experience was an education. 
Notre Dame offers you a chance to broaden your base, to widen your world view, to be different from the rest. Lack of knowledge in Japanese language and culture apper to be major stumbling blocks, but they are not. Build confidence in yourself, in your ability to be open-minded-and adaptable. And finally give your­self the Dilly Test; ask not "can I afford to go.l?" but rather "can I afford not to go?" 
There is a meeting for all those interested in the Year-in-Japan Program. Come to room 124, Hayes-Healy at 7:30 p.m., Tues­day, and discuss the merits of the program with Dr. Parness, Fr. Minamiki and students who have been abroad. 

Tuesday, November 16, 1976 the observer 5 


Indy cracks down on prostituti on 
INDIANAPOLIS [AP] -"Sir, you are under arrest for prostitution." 
Those words are being heard by an increasing number of men here after they try to purchase the favors of a "lady of the evening." As a result, many of the men have found them s e I v e s con temp Iat­ing the weakness of the flesh from a cell in the city lockup. 
Since late October, a team offour vice squad policewomen have been attacking prostitution in a near­northside area from a new angle ­by arresting the customers who are the source of profit for the world's oldest profession. 
Capt. Mack Crockett, vice squad commander, said the women work in pairs under the observation of vice detectives. The team mem­bers never make the initial ad­vance, he explained, but wait for the customers to start a conversa­tion. 
The strategy appears to be a success. 
In its first three days of opera­tion, the team made 34 arrests, and in eight of the first ten cases to go to court, the defendents were found guilty of prositution. 
All eight men were fined $25 and court costs, while three arrested later were fined $32 and costs after changing innocent pleas to guilty. Two of those three also received suspended ten-day jail sentences and were placed on six months probation. 
Drinking problems discussed 
"My biggest concern was whe­ther or not I could pull it off," said patrolwoman Deana McGivern, a member of the team. However, she said she quickly learned that by simply standing on the corner, men assumed she was a prostitute. 
In fact, she said her initial concern about being identified as an undercover policewoman soon gave way to fears that fellow officers would be summoned to the traffic jam she and the other women were causing. 
concerned with whether the police would tell their wives.'' said officer Kay Cook, another team member. "It is generally the professional men who cause the most problems after being arrested." 
Predictably, the new technique has aroused the ire of a number of bona fide streetwalkers who work the area. 
"They're hot about it," Crockett admitted with a grin. "We've had a few cases where the prostitutes are following our policewomen and telling prospective customers, 'Look out, honey. You are in the hands of the fuzz.' " 
Officer Cook said that although she doesn't consider herself "a women's libber." she thinks it's at least fair to concentrate on the other half involved in prostitution. 
"I felt, after seeing all the fancv suits and cars. that men are the one's who make hooking profit· able." she said. 
lecture "It Doesn't 'Add' UP: The Role of Human Resource Account­

AA holds open meeting 
ing in Effecting Work Humaniza­
by Bob Varettonl Staff Reporter 

He had problems before he started drinking. Alcohol only made them worse. 
Last night in the Memorial library lounge, Gil talked about how Alcoholics Anonymous helped him with his drinking problem. He emphasized that no one should be embarrassed to go to AA when they 
realize they need help. 
Gil was the featured speaker at 
last night's AA meeting. He told 
an audience of 20 people that 
TV networks 

drop shows 

LOS ANGELES [AP] • Three more weekly television shows officially were dropped yesterday -NBC's "Wednesday Movie" and CBS' "The Blue Knight" and "Tony Orlando and Dawn, Rainbow Hour." 
NBC said its Wednesday series of made-for-TV movies will end Nov. 24. The network said three new half-hour stituation comedies will be put in its' Wednesday night schedule, starting Dec. l. 
The shows are "CPO Sharkey," starring Don Rickles as a chief petty officer at a Navy training center in San Diego; "The .Mac­Lean Stevenson Show," with Ste­venson as a small-town hardware store owner, and "Sirotta' s Court," with Michael Constantine playing a night court judge. 

Bergin named chairman of NUEA 
Dr. Thomas P. Bergin, Dean of Continuing Education at Notre Dame, has been named the chair­man of the charter and bylaws committee of the National Univer­sity Extension Association. Paul E. Hadley, of the University of Southern California and president of the group, announced the appointment of the three-year term last week. 
Dean Bergin's duties will include drafting suggestions for amend­ments and studying standing docu­me'ltS for inconsistencies. Faculty members from eleven other univer­sities across the nation have been assigned to work with Bergin on the committee. 
through drinking he had reduced himself to avegetable. . At one point in his life, he drank until he could not tie his shoes or wri4! his ham e. 
"My children were scared of me," Gil said. "I never physically abused my children, but I could have. I'm just lucky I never did." 
Now he admits. "The only way I ca_!l stay sober is through AA. Here, we have a marvelous bond of love and understanding.·· 
Gil outlined the 12-step AA program which guided him. An important part of the program was to first admit to himself, to God, and to someone else that he was an alcoholic. Then he became involv­ed in a process of righting past wrongs. 
Gil stressed the AA program was 
a spiritual program of recovery. 
"If it wasn't for my God," Gil said, "I wouldn't be here tonight and I surely wouldn't be sober." 
Another member of AA intro­duced Gil. Anyone with a drinking problem can join AA, he comment­ed. There are no dues or fees to pay, he added. He said the primary purpose of AA is to stay sober and to help other alcoholics obtain sobriety. 
Peggy Barnum, coordinator of the meeting, expressed disappoint­ment that more students were not there. She added that Notre Dame students who feel they have a drinking problem should contact her at the Psychological Services Center. ~ 
The Psychological Services Cen-
Yale chemist to speak at ND 
Dr. Jerrune A. Berson, physical organic chemist, will discuss "Tri­methylememethanes, a New Class of Reactive Intermediates" Wed. and Thurs., Nov. 17 and 18, at Notre Dame. 
Berson, a ieader in the study of reaction mechanisms, is a chemis­try professor at Yale University. Berson has made significant cont­ributions to the basic understan­ding of molecular rearrangements caused by heat. Chemists use this information to create special mole-j cules with specified properties. 
The lectures will be given in Room 123, Nieuwland Science Hall. Wednesday's lecture begins at 
4:30 pm. and Thursday's is sched­uled for 3:30 pm. The lectures, sponsored by the chemistry depar­tment, are free and open to the public. 

ND cagers to play benefit 
the Speciai.Olympics for the Retar­
Notre Dame will host its first pre-season basketball game, Sun., 
ded. McDonald's will give·a free order Nov. 21. Notre Dame will play the of onion rings to anyone presentingUniversity of Windsor in a special them with a ticket stub. Ticketsexhibition game at 7:30 pm at the will go on sale Tuesday-Thursday,A.C.C. 
Nov. 16-18, at the dinner hour,McDonald's is sponsoring the in the dining halls. Tickets will also game. The proceeds from the be sold at the ACC up until game game will go to the Neighborhood time and at all McDonald's restau­
Study Help Tutoring Program and rants in the area. 
Those arrested have run the gamut from young students to 
Accounting professor to 
professors and middle-aged bank executives. 
"Almost no one questioned the 

speak in Hayes-Healy
arrest, but all were extremely 
Dr. Ken Milani C.P.A. and 
assistant professor of Accountancy 
at Notre Dame will present a 
a cost accountant with Johnson & Johnson. He has been the recipi· ent of both the Rashers & Sills Foundation Fellowship and the 1\merican Accounting Association Fellowship. He is also the author of several articles on the suhjct'l'. of accounting and taxation. He is a member of the American Account· 
ing  Association,  American  Taxa·  
tion  Association,  American  lnsti·  
tute  of Certified  Public  Account·  

ancy and the National Association of Accountants. 

'  Attention Student."!! thly Rates Are Available at a Very Reasonable Prit·e. For Information, Contact Lenard Buszkiewia 52939 u.s. 31 North South Bend, Ind. 46637 (219) 272-1500  

east Asian nation was unified. 
U.S. Ambassador William W. Scranton, explaining the latest veto, said Vietnam was not quali­fied for U.N. membership because its failure to· account for some 800 Americans still missing in action from the Vietnamese war showed it lacked a "humanitarian" attitude. 
North Vietnamese troops and Viet Cong guerrillas forced the U.S.-backed South Vietnamese government to surrender in April 
1975. 
:•••••••4CLIP AND SAVE•••••• ••••
Both the "Provisional" South 
• 

Daley receives • •
• 

highest award ·•• FAST • •• 
I 
J 
I 

I -j I j
ter also offers an alcohol program solely for students, and another for relatives of alcoholics. The center is located on the third floor of the Infirmary building. 
Students will have opportunities to attend more AA meetings. Open meetings will be scheduled on campus at least once a month. The next open AA meeting is set for Dec. 6. 
Open meetings feature a guest speaker and an informal group therapy session. 
tion" on Wednesday, Nov. 17 at 3:30p.m. in the Hayes-Healy Center auditorium. 
This talk is the last of a series of lectures sponsored by Notre Dame's College of Business Ad­ministration with financial assis­tance from the Sperry & Hutchinson Company. It is open to the public without charge. 
Prof. Milani has taught at Notre Dame since 1972. Prior to that he was an instructor at the University of Iowa and Bradley University and 


Vietnam refused UN entry 
UNITED NATIONS, N.Y. AP ·The United States vetoed Vietnam's application for United Nations membership Monday night in the 
Security Council 
The council voted 14-1 in favor of a resolution recommending that the General Assembly admit Vietnam to the United Nations. The Security Council's recommendation is re­quired for the assembly to lj.Ct on a membership application. 
The negative vote by the United States, one of the five veto-holding permanent members of the council, killed the resolution. 
It was the fifth time in slightly more than 14 months the United States vetoed Vietnamese applica­tions f?!-the membership. The other four vetoes were cast on two occasions. on separate applications for membership by North and South Vietnam before the South­


6 

the observer Tuesday, November 16~ 


Hearings underway .for Nazi war criminals 


Three Eastern Europeans who have lived quietly in the United States for years went to court yesterday to fight federal efforts to deport them as ellcged collabora­tors in the mass murders of Jews at the hands of the Nazis in World War II. 

l 
But courtroom proceedings in the three hearings put off for weeks any testimony. which is expected to 
mdudc Jews recalling the horrors

l 
Jf life under the Nazis in war-torn ~-Europe. Three three hearings began what will be, in effect. the first trials in
1 
thi), country for deportation of

l 
alleged war criminals. Officials have said they are investigating up to HO person~ who may be accused

I 
of atrocities .md deported or strip­

l 
ped •.lf naturalized citizenship. 

I 
Three years ago the federal courts took away the citizenship of a German-born New York house­"ifc. opening the way for her trial 
on atrocity charges in Germany. 

Student volunteers needed for South Bend services 
The Office of Volunteer Services 

f 'has received numerous individual reuqcsts from members of the South Bend community for student volunteers. The various volunteer 1obs include: -tutoring a 20-year-old girl who attends Miciana College of Com­merce in Accounting -assisting the YWCA in pro­grams involving their retarded girls club and helping plan and attend their Christmas party on December lo from 7-9 pm -becoming a companion and 

Brezhnev pledges no interference 
by Boris Boskovic Associated Press Writer 
Soviet leader Leonid I. Brezhnev ·cncwcd a pledge to President Tito T~tcrdav that Moscow will not ntcrfcrc. in Yugoslavia's internat­onal affairs. and accused the West 1f spreading "fairy tales" to spoil ~·u~oslav-Sovict relations. 
i·hc promise. made in a toast at a ·ormal dinner. was one of the :orKcssions the ,84-vear-old Yugo­;htv leader had hoped to win in the 


Nightmares haunt victims; kidnappers await hearing 
CHOWCHILLA, Calif. (AP) ­l'hev went to school yesterday just ike· the -other children in town. .omc of them even riding the :ellow school bus. But four months tftcr thcv were held hostage in the ~howchiila hus kidnaping. some of 
he 27 young \'ictims still experi­ence nightmares and nervousness. 
In the hours after their release. 
lll'v had handled the attention of 
cp~lrters and townspeople with 
tplomb. telling with surprising 
ktail and coolness their individual 
toties. 
But negative reactions have 
incc developed among some of the 
hildrcn. parents say. 
.ludv Reynolds,· 13. is bothered 
•ecau~e h~r eighth grade class­.1ates still treat her as "one of h<lsc kids... Her sister Becky. 10. inds herself uncharacteristically 
-h\. 
"Sometimes I really need to talk tbout it and how I am feeling." Kcvnolds said. ··Sometimes I don't ,va.nt to talk about it at all. .. 
Their mother, Evelyn. said she .jUit her night job as a convalescent 10spital aide because the girls Jcgan having violent nightmares. 
"Most of the children are differ­·nt." Mrs. Reynolds said. "Most ,f us could use a psychologist, and ;(nHe even -a-psychiatrist. -·It sure three-day talks with Brczhnev. 
Referr-ing to the discussion dur­ing the American presidential cam­paign of a pos'sible Soviet invasion of Yugoslavia after Tito dies and the American reaction to such an invasion. Brezhncv said: ~ 
··It became recently fashionable in the West to cast shadows on our mutually good relations and to spread about it most absurd fabri­cations. 
"Authors of such fairy tales try to present Yugoslavia as a helpless Little Red Riding Hood which the tutor fot" a 19-year-old high school girl who is mentally retarded. , 

Another aspect of volunteerism is the various summer, year-off, and post-graduate programs. The programs offer the volunteer op­portunities in rural and inner city regions of the US and abroad. 
Any students interested in fulfil­ling one of the request or in finding out more information about the special volunteer opportunities should stop by the office in the LaFortune Student Center or call Joan Griffin or Peter Wolf at 7308. 
and plans have been announced for similar movers against four other 
naturalized citizens whose  names  
have not been released.  
On  Monday  the  three  immi­ 

gramts appeared at hearings in New York, Baltimore and Water­bury, Connecticut. They are accused of lying about their pasts on immigration papers, although court proceedings are expected to focus on their alleged atrocities. 
The three accused are: 
-Boleslav Maikovskis, 72, a retired. Mineola. New York carpenter. He was a member of the Lativian Police Force and is accused of selecting Jewish children for exe­cution during 1941 and 1943. 

-Karlis Detlavs, 65 and also a Latvian. A retired factory worker who lost a leg to cancer three years ago. he is accused of shooting Jews as a member of the Latvian Legion at the Riga Ghetto in Oct., 1941 and of selectin.g Jews for execution. 
-Bronius "Bruno" Kaminskas, 
would help. But we just can't 
afford things like that... 
Mrs. Reynolds also said she and 
her husba.nd have become more 
irritable since the trauma of the 
July IS abduction. 
"I go into depressed moods," she said. "I'd like to get away and forget about it all.". 
fhe 26 children were freed when their bus driver and two of the older boys pried the top of the moving van free. 
An investigation later led to the arrests of three young San Francis­co Bay ArelJ men who were indicted in August on 27 counts of kidnaping and 18 of robbery invol­ving personal possessions taken from the victims. 
The three--Frederick N. Woods, 24, James Schoenfeld, 24, and his brother Richard, 23--remain in custody in Oakland where the case was moved last week on a change of venue. No trial date has been scheduled yet. 
Seemingly least affected by the trauma are the four pre-teen daughters of Celia Carrego, all of whom were on the bus. Mrs. Carrego says the girls seem un­touched by the experience, perhaps because they keep active as a group making up and performing dances 74, a retired janitor who lives in a $20-a-week room in Hartford, Con­necticut allegedly shot about 60 children near Lithusnia's Medziol­kalnis Woods in 1941, took part in shooting 200 Jews in a Lithuanian forest and chose some 400 others for execution. 
All three have denied taking part in war atrocities and Maikovskis and Detlavs have blamed accusa­tions against them on Communists plots. 
Kaminskas came to the United 


New trustees announced 
terrible and blood-thirsty ~olf--the aggressive Soviet Union--is pre­paring to dismember and devour," Brezhnev said. 
, "The Soviet Union firmly abides 
b) endeavors to strengthen and develop with Yugoslavia friendly relations based on complete equali­ty. mutual respect and trust and absolute non-interference in interi­or affairs." he said. 
Earlier, Tito greeted Brezhnev with b<.;ar hugs and kisses. He then presented him with a high Yugo­slav decoration for "services in the struggle against our common ene­my. fascism" in World War II. 
The pledge of noninterference by Brczhnev reaffirms a promise made in 1955 to reassure Yugo­slavs. Many of them fear the Soviets will try to dominate the countrv after Tito dies. The popular World War II hero has managed to keep his country independent of the Soviets for 30 years, but those who follow him may not be as strong. 

1637 LWW SO. BEND PH 2.32·6622 tor the sexes 
States in 1947. Detlavs in 1950 and defense and prosecution more time Maikovskis in 1951. All three to prepare for Kamioskas' case. arrived in New York and were In Baltimore, Detlavs denied he admitted for permanent residence. lied about his past. A hearing None became a citizen. officer rejected a motion to post-
In New York yesterday, the case pone proceedings against him but of Maikovskis was delayed two took under advisement one calling weeks with a judge's order that the for the defense to study all govern-government refine allegations ment evidence. He ordered de­against him. The defense was fense and prosecution to confer on given until Jan. 10 to prepare a date for the next hearing. motions. The cases of the three men could 
the -hearing in Waterbury was take years to work their way postponed until Jan. 25 to allow through the federal court system. 
the College of Arts and Letters Advisory Council at Notre Dame since 1972, 
Haggar received a B.S. degree in business administration from Notre Dame in 1938 and was appointed to the University's Busi­ness Administration Advis­ory Council in 1967. 
Ten times the recipient of honor­ary degrees, Dr. Peterson received a doctorate in 1959 from the University of Kansas. From 1957 to 1975, she was president of Barnard College in New York City. 
The additions bring the total number of Notre Dame trustees to 42. 


.:....::Tu..:..:es-=da;;..:....!y,~N.;.;;_ov;.::_em:..:..:.:b::..=.er:.......:1:..=..:6,;,_:1~97-=-6--~th~e~o~bs~e~r_!v~e:..!_r_ ______!_7 
_Doctors.unable to ~olve rr-ystery
by Chns Roberts encan Lung Assoc1at10n and held at Yesterday, they swapped the1r I can tell you th1s--we don t swns to talk about the role mlcrobi-
Associated Press Writer the Bellevue-Stratford. That hotel will close Thursday because of lack ?f business after re~orts that linked 
PHILADELPIDA (AP)-Federal, 
1t to the phantom killer.' state and local health officials 
It was the Bellevue the state 

gathered here yesterday to exa­American Legion chose-as head-
mine a thousand theories on the quarters for their convention July
mysterious legionnaires' disease 21-24. Within a few weeks 29 
and agreed it is still very much a 
people were dead and 151 had been mystery. 
hospitalized with a flu-like illness, "I am a little concerned that the cause of which defied medical we've eliminated all causes of this 
explanation. All had had some epidemic," said Dr. Horatio T. contact with the convention and the Enterline of the University of illness was dubbed legionnaires' Pennsylvania medical school. "Ei­disease. ther there was no epicemic or we're 
For 31/2 months. medical investi­all wrong.'' 

gators have been tracking down its The doctors were attending a cause, spending at least a half symposium sponsored by the Am-million dollars in that effort. 
UN University needs cash 
TOKYO (AP) -The United Nations University has no campus, no degree students and no courses of study and is not looking for any. But on its first birthday it is having financial troubles and wants some money. 
"We are still in a time of difficult financial condition," said James Hester, the American rector of what was formally created a year ago as a world problem-solving agency. . He . told a news conference yesterday that the university still was not understood around the world and that'the use of the word "university" was confusing. 
"We are a university that is not a university, has no degree students, campus or courses of study," he said. "Our method of operation, as a network of associate institutions is not familiar to most people." 
It is intended to examine interna­

tional problems from a scholarly, 
nonpolitical viewpoint, coordimi­
ting the work of worldwide, special-­
ized institutes. 
Hester noted that in addition to Japan's pledge of $100 million, VPnf'7Hela pledged $10 nlillion and Ghana $2.5 million. The United 
States may contribute $~0 million during the coming year, he said. 
Hester had said earlie~: he hoped 

to raise $500 million in the first five 
years .of the university. 
"We still don't know how much 

or when other countries will contri­
bute. The ultimate success de­
pends on those contributjgns," he 
NOTICES 

Sign up for SM C Fast Day (rice and tea meal) outside of SMC dining hall on Tues., Nov. 16 and Wed., Nov. 17. 
Tickets for the J. GEILS BAND 'Ia JAMES GANG concert Friday Nov. 19 at Kalamazoo's Wings Stadium are now on sale at the River City Review ticket outlets: Boogie Records (College Square) and Just for the Record (l 00 Center) 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-$150 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. Lafortune Basement. M-F 11:15 ·' 12:15. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. Hours: 8 a.m. to 8~.m. 
1------;--------­
Any sr. interested in working on the St. Mary's and Notre Dame Sr. Formal committee should attend the Sr. class meeting Wednesday at 4:15p.m. First Floor Hayes Healy. 
ND1SMC Council for the Retarded: Coffeehouse Wed. 8 -10 p.m. at Bulla Shed. ALL volunteers and friends are invited. 
'ree kitten · 5 mos. old. Box trained. Call 234-9666. 
.Where is it funky and nice to boogie? THE 2100 CLUB! 
FOR RENT 

Will rent my upstairs. $40 mo. Girls only: tall 233-1329. 
said. 
Hestc~_r said the 1<}:13 oil cr1s1s made many countries feel too poor to contribute. Criticism of the United Nations in some parts of th the world also discouraged contri­butions, he said. 
Hester said he wrote two months ago to Jimmy Carter explaining the university's situation. Carter re­plied that he would do everything he could. 
The university chose as its first three areas of concern world hun­ger, human and social development and managementof natural resour­ces. It held working meetings in the fall of 1975 with 69 experts from 39 countries to decide on a program of activities. The initial programs are with Central America, Panama, In·dia and the Philippines.
"We are eager to demonstrate the universtiy can help scientists of developed countries as well," said Hester. "Within a month we will appoint a vi~e rector in the area of natural resources to develop a progn(m in energy of interest to developed countries" 
The university will also study the impact of technology on the social and cultural development of Japan. 
Hester said most intellectual resources in the "'World are in national universities studying from the national point of view. He called the United Nations Univer­sity one of the few places where people come together to look at the problem from a purely internation-j al point of view. 
theories and admitted the progno­sis wasn't good. "I really don't know if we'll ever find an answer " said Dr. David 
W. Fraser of th~ federal Center for Disease Control in Atlanta. "I know I'm a lot Jess confident now than 1 was in early August. We've run through most of the tests we can do. I'm afraid we may never 
find what caused it." State health officials also expres­sed guarded pessimism. 
Ernst & Ernst representative to speak 

Bruce P. Olsen, a partner and director of management consulting seffi'ces for the northwestern dist­rict of Ernst & Ernst public accounting firm, will speak before the Michiana Chapter of the Nat­ional Association of Accountants. 
Olson, discussing replacement cost accounting. will address the chapter's member!j at a meeting. Tuesday. Nov. 161 The meeting includes a social hour and dinner to be held at the Lincoln Highway Inn, 2754 Lincolnway East, Mishawaka. Social Hour will begin at 6 pm. followed by dinner at 7 pm. 
This month's program is a continuing effort of NAA to keep their membership and accounting profession informed on current changes in accounting procedures. 
need resumes in a hurry? 
• 
• I 
•nsly·pr•nls• 
the 'WU of the printi.ng biz! 

rag bond 
25-81/2 X 11°$2.55 203 N. Main SoiBend 289-697 

expect anything startling in the ologists and epidemiologists played next couple of ~eeks," said Dr. inthe hunt for the mystery germ. W_iHiam E. _Parkin, chief of epid~-They ate the hotel's food, drank mwlogy w1th the Pennsylvama the wat(,'r and talked about its air Department of Health. "S?me da_y con~itioning system. dirt~· pige_on~ we II find out what caused 1t, but 1t outs1de and pl_ants that poss1bly may be a hundred years from now could have emltt_ed the d1s_ease. befo~e our technology ?ec?~7s They agreed agam and agatn that efficient enough to cope Wlth_lt. they could not put the puzzle 
The doctors held panel. d1scus-together. 
SHARE THE RIDE WITH US THIS THANKSGIVING AND GET ON TO AGOOD THING. 
, Us means Greyhound. and a lot of your fellow students who are already on to a good thing. You leave when you like. Travel comfortably. Arrive nfreshed and on time. You'll save money, too, over the increased a1r fares. Share the ride with us on weekends. Holidays. Anytime. Go Greyhound. 
GREYHOUND SERVICE 
ONE-ROUND-YOU CAN YOU TO WAY TRIP LEAVE ARRIVE 
;chicago, D. $6.75 51i.85 10:20 am 11:15 am :aeveland, 0. 518.20 534.60 10:00 am 4:20pm .Detroit 514.20 527.00 3:35pm 9:00pm Toledo 511.10 521.10 4:00pm 7:10pm Milwaukee 511.20 521.30 1:35pm 5:45pm 
Ask your agent about additional departures and return tr1ps. 
Greyhound Bus Unes 
105 N. Main Downtown S.B. 287-6541 
GO GREYHOUND 
..•and leave the driVinu to am~ 


Three bedroom house for rent unfurnished. Fenced yard. Near Memorial Hospital. Reasonable for married student. Quiet neighbor­hood. 232-9128. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: St. Mary's green Italian spiral notebook. Call 4-4777. 
--------------+ 
Lost: between Farley and o.1 parking lot. A gold and purple earring. Lost last Friday. Call 6868. 
Lost: a brown shoulder bag, in the South Dining Hall, west side. Call Karen 7951. Reward. 
Lost and Found: If you picked up the wrong camel hair jacket by mistake at Morrissey's Campus View party, Sat., Oct. 30 please call Shannon 5150 SMC. I've got yours­reward tor mine back. 
To the bstd. who stole Calif. license plate 565 JM V I want it back! Call 1747. 
Lost: At Campus View apts. Fri. nite, Nov. 5 a light tan suede winter coat with white sheepskin lining. If found, contact Jim 3210. No ques­tions asked. Reward. 
Lost: SM c gold class ring engraved with Mary Esther Hall, BS '78. Reward if found. Call 4524. 
WANTED 

Girlfriend needs ride from N.J. to N D for Thanksgiving break... Call 3408. 
Need ride to Columbus, Ohio over Thanksgiving break. Can leave as early as Tues (23 ). Share driving and expenses. Call Tim at 1658. 
Needed: 2 tickets to Doobie Bros. 
Call Janet 8113. 
Need ride to Iowa, Dubuque . Cedar Rapids area, for Thanksgiving break Will share expenses. Call John 1723. 
Miami football (GA) tix wanted. Need block of 4 -6 tickets. Phone Ray 288-2323. 
Desperately need 2 GA tix forM iami . Call Peggy 4381. 
Need ride to MSU on Fri., Nov. 19. 
Call Nick 8225. 
4 BARMAIDS FOR THE GRA,..D OPENING OF NOTRE DAME'S 2100 CLUB THIS SAT. CALL CARL 3038. 
Help: I'm homesick! Going my way for Turkey Day? Syracuse, New York. Call Karen 6737. 
I need 3 GA Miami tix. Call 4047. 
Wanted: Part time cocktail waitress Wed., Fri., Sat. 4:30 until close. Apply at Stewart's Down Under 900 
E. Ireland Rd. South Bend. 
Miami GA tix for sale. Kevin or Jack. 1816. 
Texas Instrument SR-50 for sale. l'li year old. $45.00. Call 1196 evenings. 
BOOK SHOP. u..;ed books. Students Paradise. Open Wed., Sat., Sun 9-7. Ralph Casperson Books, 1303 Buchanan Road., Niles, Mich. 683-2888. 
FOR SALE: Sherwood S-7225 stereo receiver, realistic Lab-14 turntable, 2 MC-1000 speakers, stereo head­phones and cabinet. $250 or best offer. Call Curt at 8711 after 5 p.m. 
Excellent Opportunity for NO Stu­dent business . record shop . sold complete. Unbelievable price. -Call 232-00. 
MIAMI GAME: a set of married tickets. $15.00. Call 6140 after 9 p.m. 
Swiss Wrist Watch (day-date), Or­nilte Indian bedspruds, neckties, etc. Call Ed 218-0018 I :30 • 10 ilny night. 
PERSONALS 

I'll blow you a million kisses tonight honey. Love, Care 
Interested in tutoring South Bend schoolchildren from 4.5 on Tues and Thurs? Call Katie at 1275. 
WOULD YOU LIKE TO GET A CLEARER IDEA OF WHO YOU ARE AND WHERE YOU ARE GOING? COME TO THE LIFE PLANNING· VALUES CLARIFICA TION WORKSHOP, SUNDAY NOV !1 IN THE COUNSELING CENTER ROOM 400 ADMINISTRATION BLDG. 3 TWO HOUR SESSIONS, BEGINS 9 A.M. TO INQUIRE OR REGISTER, CALL 1717. 
TONIGHT AT BEGETABLE BUD+ DIES I THE ACOUSTIC MUSIC OF GEORGE ADELOI 
RA on 6th floor Grace . How can 1 find out more about Mark Fuller. ·ism? Cause of your cold showers 
To the girls in ,.10 Badin, I love you all. Weird Kevin 
.. 
~-. 


the observer Tuesday, November 16, 1976
8 

Notre Dame field hockey team completes season 
by EUeen O'Grady out, both the Indiana State and 
ND Women's Sports Editor Indiana coaches called the Notre 
Dame team "competitively strong, 
and particularly fine in defense." 

Field hockey completed its third Hotvedt accounts their strong 
season of competition last week­defense to a new system employed 
end, and still people are unfamiliar this year by the team, called the 
with the Notre Dame team. ''3-3-3-1. ''She likens the system to 
Presently the women are resting the wish-bone in football, with 
on what they called a "successful many options. 
season," and are anxiously formu­It was orginally designed by a 
lating their proposal for varsity men's South African team about 15 
status. If granted, they would be years ago. uniquely, it encourages 
the third women's varsity sport well-rounded hockey players by 
along with tennis and fencing. breaking down the former forma­
Besides their three years of tion of halfback and forward. 
organized playing. the women "It makes the team more cere­
highlight their play in the last two bral, as you can move more 
o,tate tournaments in their propos­laterally with an attack," com­
al. ments Hotvedt. "This causes 
Both times they were immediate­opponents to leave their defensive 
(~· pitted against large school position and follow the ball, creat­
competition which prevented them ing many open holes." 
from ranking higher in the state. Field hockey itself is very similar 
But the important thing in their to soccer,onlymoving the hard ball 
eyes is that as a small school team, with cane-length sticks that have a 
they did exceedingly well. rounded edge. 
This year they ranked sixth in the It is played on a soccer size field 
state. "and didn't get killed when with many of the rules and plays 
we played the higher ranked similar to soccer. Ice hockey was 
teams," coach Astrid Hotvedt derived from field hockey, so other 
points out. plays are reminiscent of ice hockey. 
Unfortunately for them, they had The game originally began in the 
to play top ranked Indiana State 1700's in western Europe, and was 
tirst this year at the state tourna­brought to this country by English­
ment. Althou~h narrowly edged woman Constance May Applebee 
McMillian happy in N.Y. 
NEW YORK [API -The prospect of ball in New York," said McMillian, 
spending another winter in Buffalo "though it was beginning to look 
was a chilling one for Jim Mc­like I might not get the chance.'' 
Millian, so the 28-ycar-old forward He got it when Buffalo signedhad no regrets when he was sold by top draftee Adrian Dantley of Notre the Braves to the New York Knicks Dame -like McMillian a 6-5before the season started. 
forward -to a lucrative multiyear"Even if we lost all our games, contract, then decided it could notI'd still rather be in New York than afford to keep them both on theBuffalo," McMillian said with a payroll. So McMillian and hissmile. 
$200.000-a-year salary went to the"My six-year exile is over." The Knicks for a reported price ofmove to New York was a home­$-250,000.
coming for the 6-foot-5 veteran of 

six National Basketball Association "Any time you can get a player 
seasons. He was a schoolboy of his caliber for cash, you're 
All-American in Brooklyn and a getting a bargain," said Knicks 
collegiate star at Columbia, an Ivy General Manager Eddie Donovan, 
League school which he lifted into who three years earlier had obtain­
the Top Ten. ed McMillian for Buffalo when he 
''I've always wanted to play pro was the Braves' GM. 
NCAA reduces Division I 
drop schools with lesser football posed Monday to reduce Division I CIDCAGO AP • The NCAA pro­
programs from Division I status. membership from the current 247 
But such schools still would be able institutions to approximately 150 
to compete on Divison I levels in where football is the major sport. 
other sports. The plan, which will be submit­
Some institutions would be able ted to the NCAA convention in 
to compete in Divison I in certain Miami Beach in January, would 
sports and then channel other 
programs into either Divison II or 
III depending on their respective 
strengths.

Pete Rozelle Schools with four or five programs would be allowed to compete in one anti-gambling sport in Division I. Schools with six to eight . varsity sports would be WILMINGTON, Del. AP • If legal able to compete in a maximum of sports gambling becomes wide­two Division I sports: Schools spread, it could make fans suspi­supporting 9 through 11 varsity cious of every play and ruin the sports would be able to compete in image of pro sports, National three Divison I programs and Football League Commissioner schools with 12 or more could Pt•tc Rozelle said Monday. compete in four Divison I categor­
Rozelle was the leadoff witness ies. at the federal court trial of an NFL Under the present program, lawsuit to halt legal sports betting some Divison I schools aren't on in ·Delaware, the first statein the a competitive level in all sports but nation to legalize such betting for fear of losing their Divison I through a state lottery. The lottery status they are forced to schedule has attracted the attention of other other sports which prove to be a states looking for revenue sources. financial burden. 
Rozelle said legal gambling on At present, to be in Divison I pro football could chase family with its basketball program, a groups from stadiums and lead to member must place all its pro­fans· booing a home team if they grams in Division I although its felt the game's outcome did not football program would be at the match their bets. lesser level of II or III. 
He also said widespread legal Institutions with football pro. gambling would place enormous grams which do not qualify or do 1ressures on his league and could not wish to be members of reconsit­11ake fans suspicious of every play tuted Division I or institutions J ti had an affect on the margin of without a football program would victory, or point spread. be members of Division II and III. 
The NFL filed suit against Dela­More than 300 representatives ware's Scoreboard lottery, seeking from Division I universitities and damages and a permanent injun­·allied conferences attended the ction to halt all sports pool betting. meeting. 

in 1800. She introduced it to 
Vassar College in their physical 
education classes. Its seven sister 
colleges started playing it, so it 
became an inter-c~1legiate sport for 
women. 
However, it enjoyed its early 
popularity in this country around 
the same time as football, thus as 
a men's sport, it never became as 
popular as football. 
The game today is divided into 
two 35 minute halves. There are no 
time outs, except for injury, so it is 
70 minutes of constant running. 
Thus field hockey encourages team 
work and endurance, and is gener­
ally a very demanding sport. 
With the sticks and hard ball, 
one would think field hockey to be a 
violent sport. Although there have 
been a few injuries, Hotvedt des­
cribes it as a , ''sport of technique. 
Rules are strictly enforced and 
developed solely for safe play.'' 
The Notre Dame team began two 
years ago from an interest group The Notre Dame women's field hockey team has just completedstarted by Hotvedt. They borrowed their third season of competition and hopes to become a varsityequipment from St. Mary's Acad­sport for next year.

emy and played in two away 
matches. In the fall of 1975, they these larger schools, whom she included Mary Anne Dooley, "who 

·were granted club status. They thinks vital to their schedule. scored and assisted many import­had schedules for two squads and 
Another benefit from varsity ant goals, and was our primaryplayed both small and large schools status would be for the team to attacker," Hotvedt describes. 
in the Indiana, Michigan, and attend some weekend tourna-· Dooley set up many good plays for Illinois region. 

ments. "But at the present $900 another outstanding offensive play­
This year the team followed the club sport budget, we just can't er Kim Mnazi, who has a "sharp same type of format, retaining their afford it,'' states Hotvedt. She slap shot." club sport status and competing mentioned particular fall tourn­Again this year Hotvedt cited goali!'! with two squads. But they are aments in Michigan, Pennsylvania Mary Hums as the outstanding 
beginning to run into some pr~b­and New Jersey. defensive player. "In one half, she lems. Hotvedt notes one drawback to made 43 saves, without allowing 
"This season we were not able to the team: a good halfback. "We one score," her coach boasts. schedule Valparaiso, Purdue, Ind­need to find someone who can play The team announced that they iana or Indiana State,'' explains in the mid field and distribute good will ahve spring practice fpr pres­Hotvedt. ''They feel they have accurate passes on the diagonal," ent team members and any new established teams, and would rath­she explains. Although she has woman anxious to come out and er play out of state teams, or at many good athletes on the team, learn the skills. There are still least varsity level teams.'' she claims to need "someone who places open on the second squad. 
Hotvedt claims varsity status for would just have a feel for the "The key things you have to the field hockey team would give position." enjoy are team work, running, and them the prestige necessary to play Some of these excellent athletes the outdoors," describes Hotvedt. 
SCOREBOARD 
Irish ninth NBA Standings 
WESTERN CONFERENCE

EASTERN CONFERENCE 
Midwest Dlv!BiH 
WCHA standings 

Atlantk Dlvllllw 
Denvl'r .. .. . .. . .. .. ) 1 01100

W L Pct. GB
W L T Pts Goals GA All Games Detroit .. .. . .. .. __ .s • .m 3
Philadelphia ' ........ 7 4 .836
Wisconsin 5 I 0 10 36 27 7·1 Kansas City .. 0 & 7 046% 4u
.......

Buffalo .. . .. .. .. ..7 4 .836 74
North Dakota . 5 I 0 10 37 28 S-2 Indian
Boston .. .. .. .... .. .. 8 5 .MS I Cit' a.. .. ... .. 0. 4 • .388 S'h 
Michigan . 5 3 0 10 47 41 5-3 •cago ..... 0 % 8 .200 7
.......

N. Y. Knlcks 0........ 7 8 0538 I
Mlnn('SOta ... 3 2 I 7 28 25 5-3-1 Milwaukee .. .. •.. .. . # 11 0214 8
N. Yo Nets ........... 5 8 .385 3
Denv!'r ......... . . .. 3 3 0 6 33 34 4-1 
Cfttnll Dlvlsloli .
Colorado Coll!'gt' . ....... 3 3 0 62422 !~'4 
t>a:otfk Dlv L'ilon.

Ck>veland ........... 11 2 .8411
Michigan TPch . . 3 5 0 6 32 35 3 ,\ New Orleans ..... 7 5 .583 31,2 Portlaad .. .. . .. .. .. 7 s .'180
0 ..

Michigan State . ..... 2 4 0 4 24 33 4-~ 
Houston . .. .. 0 8 5 .545 4 Seattll' .. ... .. . .. .. .7 1 .as 1'12
Notrt> Dame ... ... 240430322--1 
San Antonio . . . .. 0 6 8 05110 4'12 Los Angeles.. .. .. . 5 7 .417 3
Duluth . 0 5 I I 19 33 z.&ol 
NHL Standings 
Patridl Dlvlsloa 
WLTPts 
N. Y. lslandPrs .......12 % 3 r1 PbiladPlphia .. . .. .. .. 8 7 3 Ill Atlanta .. .. .. 7 7 5 Ill No Yo Rangers......... II 10 2 14 
Smytbe Division 
Chicago ................9 8 2 20 
St. LOlliS ....... 9 8 0 18
0 ....... 
Vancouver . .. .. . ....5 13 1 11 Minnesota .. .. .. . .. ....5 11 2 12 Colorado .. .. .. .. .. .4 12 2 10 
WALES CONFERENCE 
Norris Division 
Montreal .. 0 13 3 3 211
.. .. • .. 
Los AngPies.. . .. . . . 8 6 6 22
0 
Pittsburgh.. . .. .. .. .. .. 6 7 5 17 Washington .. 5 10 2 12 Detroit .. .. . .. .. . 4 9 3 11 
Adams Division Boston .. .. .. .. 13 3 1 r1 Buffalo ... . ... II 5 2 20 
Toronto ... .. .. . 6 7 4 18 Cleveland ., .. . .. s 7 4 16 
lnterha/1 b-ba/1 meetings set 
An organizational meeting for men's interhall basketball will be held Qn Tuesday, November 16 at 
4:30 
in the ACC Auditorium. All coaches and captains must attend. 

Also, anyone interested in offi­ciating at interhall basketball games. a paid position. should report to the ACC Auditorium at_ 

4:30 
on Wednesday, November 17. 



Atlanu 0 5 7 .417 5'12 Golden Stat. .. 0 4 I .480 3 Wasbin!rton . . .... 5 7 .417 5'12 Plloenlx .. .. .. .. .. . • 2 I .258 4 
.............. 

Keenan cops. North Quad title with shutout of Grace 
Keenan captured the North Quad In the secon4, half Grace finally Interhall football championship for got their offensive machine in gear. the second straight year Sunday, The running game started picking 3-0 but not before a close scare up momentum only to stall after a from Grace. The two teams were few first downs. One Grace drive tied after the regular season forc­was halted by Keenan's captain ing this playoff game. Jim Kerrigan when he picked off an 
From all indications this game errant Grace aerial. After this, was going to be a battle to the wire. both team's defenses again took ,. During the regular season the two over . teams fought to a scoreless tie. 
Keenan got the ball for the lastSunday's game plan looked almost time with a little over two minutesidentical to the game played earlier to play. The offense grounded outthis season except for the last two first downs clawing to theminute of play. 

18-yard line. This set up the la'itKeenan dominated the first half play of the game. During the as they moved the ball well on the regular season Keenan missed aground. On their second drive field goal from this same spot, butthey moved the ball with consisten­Ed Danko, Keenan's premier place cy behind the running of tailback kicker was not to be foiled again asFrank Hopke. However the Grace he split the uprights with just overdefense held when they had to, ten seco;1ds remaining clinchingstopping Hopke at the one footline the win for Keenan. 

on fourth down. 
Grace's poor field position forced Keenan, the defending Interhall them to play cautiously as the rest champions, take on South Quad of the half became sluggish with champ, Off-Campus, this Thursday the defenses dominating. night on Cartier Field. 
·• 








