
Reception at SMC 
Jack Ford to campaign at N 
by Barbara Breitenstein Federation. approximately 4 _p.m. The Presi-­
Senior Staff Reporter The reception willbe open prima­dent's son plans to meet with Fr. rily to Notre Dame and St. Mary's Theodore Hesburgh, University students and area Republican offi-president, in his office Thursday 
Jack Ford, the President's son, cials. Tickets for the $10-per-per­afternoon. will be at Notre Dame Thursday, son function will be limited to 400, Ford's appearance is sponsoredSept. 30, to address the student with the proceeds going to the ND . 
by the ND and SMC Collegebody and attend a fund-raising and SMC College Republicans, the Republicans and the Indiana Third reception at St. Mary's. Indiana State Young Republicans District Young Republicans. 
Ford will speak at Stepan Center and local candidates. at 7:30 p.m.Thufsday, following a Ford's speech will be open to the Tickets for the reception are now reception in his honor at Sta~leton general public and will be followed available through Chad Tiede­Lounge in LeMans Hall at 6:30p.m., by a question and answer period. amnn, co-chairman of the ND it was announced yesterday by , Final details for Ford's visit are still College Republicans, at 1738, or George Rasley of the Indiana State being arranged. Beth Cutter, SMC College Republi­Kenn Ricci, director of Studentrequest to the Student 'gove,rnment Union, stated. "I am .extremely
Treasurer's office prior to Sunday's

Debates increase Ford popularity 
happy with it (the amount allocate­meeting. The request was to d). Of course, we could always usecontain a paragraph dealing with 

by Patrick Cole the candidates. Yet Ford was [USNWR]. The Northea~r. a more. I don't think there was
the purpose of the organization and 

Political Writer perceived as the winner in all parts ten-state region, is considered anyone who couldn't use more. I
the number of active members, a

of the country, including the South. crucial to the strategy of both am sure that we can improve our
statement on why the members 

After the first round of debating He was considered the winner by candidates. At stake are 125 programs with the extra money we
believed they deserved funds and a 

between Democratic Presidential Republicans, by Roman Catholics electoral votes, a little less than received. We received more
copy of their organization's propo­

hopeful Jimmy Carter and Presi­and Protestants as well. The poll half of the 270 needed to elect a money this year than last year.''
sed budget for the 1976-1977 school dent Gerald Ford, the American also indicated that Ford scored President. The uncertainty about year. Chairman Ryan spoke for the eiectorate believes Ford won the better with his constituency than Carter is so preva­This request was then reviewed committee when he said, "we felt debate, according to a poll taken by Carter did. In the last three weeks lent, said USNWR, that it would by the committee before they met that we allocated the $6,000 in the The New York Times and CBS almost two-thirds of previously shock few experts if Ford were to with the spokesman for the organi­best possible manner and I expect News. uncommitted voters had made a overtake the Democratic nominee zation. the clubs should generally be Although political experts and decision, and a majority of them to capture the bulk of the electoral Committee chairman Eric Ryan satisfied with their amounts.'' 

politicians considered the debate a chose Ford. votes "in this region. said that "there were no real Ryan said that the nineteen clubs draw, the polls indicate the voters' Although Carter held an early If the election were held today. criteria. The committee relied on asked for 36.400 in total. so 
opinion differed. Of the 1,167 lead in the polls, his lead is now USNWR indicates Carter would personal opinion as to where the "nobody got what they asked for." 
voters surveyed, 37 per­"shaky" said the Oct. 4 issue of carry a total of six States with 111 money would best be spent.'' but he did point out that "every cent thQught Ford had the edge in U.S. News and World Report (continued on page 7) Accordingly, the majority of the group got at least $25." 

the debate, 24 percent thought Carter had won, 35 percent con­sidered the face-off a draw and four percent were unwilling to express 

Conrad states major concerns in interview 
any opinion. 

The survey is based on telephone interviews conducted on Sept. 24 by Katie Kerwin contracts that bind you," he com­Conrad favors action by the States," Conrad noted. "The and Sept. 25 with 1.167 adult men Senior Staff Reporter mented. "And it seems to me that state government to aid the South national averate is 14:2 and Indian­and women across the continental Democratic gubernatorial nomi­if you decide it's at 18, or at 19, Shore Railroad. A piecemeal effort a's is 17.3." United States. Each respondent nee Larry Conrad indicated his then you've got to draw the line all is useless, he said. A state Conrad blames the high rates on was interviewed in a previous support for lowering the Indiana the way across, because you can't commission would be in the best a Public Service Commission that Times/CBS poll during the week drinking age in an exclusive interv­separate these kinds of things.'' position to orchestrate a cooperati­has tipped the balance in favor of ending Sept. 4. According to the iew with the Observer last Thurs­Conrad added, "It seems-to me ve effort between the four counties the utility companies. The commi­
story about the poll by R. W. Apple day. the logical thing is to be consistent involved. ssion is largely composed, he Jr., there is a "95 percent certainty ·"I just don't know how you can and I would support it (lowering the "I think it's terribly inconsist­asserted, of people formerly in the that the overall results in a sample possibly argue that you can commit drinking age) in an effort for ent for us to suggest that we're utilities industry, who returned to 
of this size differ by no more than people to everything that man as an consistency.'' moving toward mass transportation the industry after a term on the four percentage points.'' The error adult can do, and then at the end of Expressing his belief in the need and a solution to ecology problems, commission. for Democrats, Republicans or it, say . but there's one little area for consistency in government acti­and energy problems," he added. Conrad went on to criticize the
independents alone is six percent that you're boxed out of,," Conrad ons, Conrad aso advocated saving "if we lose a tailor-made commuter inconsistent approach to energyand somewhat larger for smaller said. the South Shore Line, lowering process with established lines and conservation shown in the current
subgroups. "I don't know when you get utility rates, improving correctional easements for a route that's as long utility rate system. "I have Carter's lead slipping mature, but some judgement has to institutions, eliminating the busin­as the one from South Bend to suggested that it's unwise, at the
Chicago."

be called on to decide when you're ess inventory tax, and changing the very least to foster a system in thisAccording to Tbe Times, 25 old enough to go to war, get tax structure and the funding of the Conrad said there has been 
state that ·gives you tremendouspercent switched their votes among married, serve on juries and make educational system. some evidence that the Chicago benefits the more energy you use.··

transit region "might be willing to he declared. "There ought to be atalk in terms of assistance," since penalty for using more energy. so access to Chicago and its highway you would be more inclined ·to system would also be affected. 
conserve. He explained that his proposedUtilities a Major Concern "fair value rate base" plan would 
Conrad has given utility prices lower the ratt' for the initial fixed top priority in his campaign becau­amount of e.Jergy consumed and .se, he explained, he feels it's a raise the rate progressively on major concern of the people of his comsumption above that level. state. 
"I like to think that one of my Prison reform needed strongest suits is that I can identify, as closely as anybody Conrad also attacked the present who's ever run for governor in this system of correctional institutions state, with the most people," he in Indiana and suggested a four­
said. point plan for improving it. 
"When we get a $76 gas bill Modernization of the facilities is jacked to $133 in one month, we are necessary, first of all, he said. scrambling to cover that in our "Sometime we must accept the budget. And I think of the people premise that Indiana is going to on fixed incomes, who are counting make a capital investment in fiscal pennies.'' facilities." 
organize plans for the upcoming semester. [photo 

"Indiana has one of the highest Speaking of one Indiana prison, b Anne Frazel] profits on utilities in the United (continued on page 3) 
Student Government Treasurer, Eric Ryan [photo by Anne Frazel] 


Student government allocates club funds 
Board of the Young Republicans F\h..: ~~ expected to arrive at cans chairman, at 4-5254. 




The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and' st. mary's
").\ 

Vol. XI, No. 2tr Tuesday, September 28, 1976 
According to polls 

by Tim Creagan funds were allocated to the Student Staff Reporter Union, which sponsors or pla~·s some part in the majority of the 
The Student Government Co­social. service and academic funct­mmittee. which allocated $87,300 ions which occur on campus during to-various clubs and organizations the year. this past Sunday, was made up of 
The Student Government. wh­seven students including Student ich sponsors the Ombudsman andBody President Mike Gassman. 
covers miscellaneous administrati­Vice President Mike Casey. and ve expenses. received the secondTreasurer Eric Ryan, who served as largest amount of funds. The third committed chairman. 
biggest recipient of 'funds was theThe other committee members Hall Presidents' Council. which yea­were Student Life Council members rly spends $7.500 on the variousEd Van Tassel, John Steinman and halls, $100 on operational expen~e~Pete Haley. as well as J.P. Russel and $4,500 on An Tostal. Thefrom hall Presidents' Council. 
remaining $6,000 went to ninteeuEach club requesting funds student clubs and organizations. ­was required to submit a written 
.----------------------------------------------­
r 
2 
the observer Tuesday, September 28, 1976 

~---NewsBriefs----­
l===================National 


Hearst testifies 

OAKLAND, Calif. -In her first appearance as a government witness. Patricia Hearst testified before a grand jury yesterday about her kidnapping by the Symbionese Liberation Army. She has indicated through her attorneys that she will cooperate fully in the grand jury probe aimed at indicting William and Emily Harris for her abduction. 

Russia adds missiles 
WASHINGTON -Defense secretary Donald Rumsfeld said yesterday that the Russians are pushing ahead with an unprecedented missile program which will give them more nuclear striking power than they need "merely to deter nuclear war." He said that they are "clearly striving not to be on the losing side in event those weapons are used." 

L-On Campus Toda!J'-­
6:15pm meeting, st. mary's college republicans, regina basement auditorium. 
6:·10 pm civic reception, evening at saint mary's. cocktails in stapleton lounge. at 7:30 in college dining hall. 
7 pm meeting, the sophomore advisory council. Iafortune auditorium. 
7:30 
pm panel discussion, "the hidden structure"with bernard 

d. cullity, n.d., james p. danehy, n.d. and richard stevens, n.d. library lounge. 

7:30 
pm meeting, charismatic prayer meeting. Iafortune student center. 

7:30 
& film, "meet me in st. louis" directed by vincent minelli. 


10 pm  engineering aud. tickets: $1.  
10 pm  meeting,  knights  of  columbus  meeting  in  council  
c....ambers.  


SMC sponsors dinner 
by Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor 

St. Mary's College Relations is sponsoring "Evening at St. Mar­y's," its fourth annual scholarship dinner tonight in the St. Mary's dining hall. 
The evening, which costs $50 per couple, wil begin at 6:30 p.m. with a reception in Stapleton Lounge. The dinner, featuring Canard a D'orange, is scheduled for 7:30 
p.m. Entertainment during dinner will be provided by the St. Mary's music department. 
''The money goes to the General College Scholarship Fund for St 
r.:-n,;;-§·~···~
! difference!!! ~ 
: ,.,.lfE/IIOif : 
011" l!l '''" :•• MCAT ol U&NIIfnct e 
: DA T Mill~CIU : 
: LSAT •
SINilclnu'-'""· 
Votumonout '-•
•. GRE • .: 
e GMAT Lludymtlllllll
. . : 
: Q(AT Courull~tl trf e 
: ( pA T 
<O"'':"' upUitd : 
•. VAT ltpt locol<lou lor : 
•rwotwl ol CIUl e


: $AT 
Inso•• ••d lnr uu •
•. ,FlEX e
of lupplrmenttr'J
matrr•th • 
! ECFMG ....,:p,or : 
• monrd Insons :· 
: NA T'L MED BDS : : NAT'L DENT BDS: 
• • • • • • w • • e Mou t 1ril..el 'tart 8 Wf'ttk5 : 
» pr~or ~a Exam • e Sp.ong & ~.11 compacl! • 
• Sof'Tle coura.et offered on e · 
: Ma1or Campklutl e 
• Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Center : · : 831 Park Square Drive 1 • • Bloomington, Indiana 47401 . • 
• (812)339.1127 . •




: . . . .. . . . . : 
e CHICAGO CENTER e • (3121 764-5151 • 

i=tM-H!:i!!T!ONAL CfN! ! 
• TUT ..., .....,.,.. " -"'-CIAL IS f§. SIH("( !Ill ~ •
tf._.•,....'-7;;'s:.::' ....._.-t 
~··11"< ..... "...,.,. "' ~;· ...:..· 

Mary's students." Brian Regan, assistant to the President for College Relations explained. Reg­an indicated that this money will be available for student use second semester this year and next fall. 
According to Regan, formal invi­tations from President and Mrs. John M. Duggan were sent out to St. Mary's friends, alumnae, pare­nts, regents and faculty. "As of this minute we expect 199 people,'' Regan said. Fr. Theodore Hesbur­gh, Fr. Edmund Joyce, executive vice president and Fr. James T. Burtchaell, university provost, ha­ve been invited as honorary invite­es, he added. 
Student criticism leads to shuttle bus service .probe 
by John Moran arrive at classes on time. Staff Reporter 
uuring the evening hours there A probe into some of the inadequa­are times when the shuttle does not cies of the ND-SMC shuttle bus run at all. The present schedule 
service is currently in the planning states that runs are made between stages, says Rich Littlesfield of the the two schools on weeknightsNotre Dame student government. every half-hour until 12:30 a.m. 
Under the auspices of the Om­According to several students, budsman and the Notre Dame and however, this schedule has not St. Mary's student councils, the been adequately adhered to. Some 
investigation will focus on the of the complaints noted that the numerous complaints registered by prospects of finding a bus from students in regard to the short­9:00 to 11:00 are particularly comings of the present system. gloomy. Proceedings will be coordinated by 
Posted schedules and bus stop a committee comprised of two signs which differentiate between 
students and one faculty member from both schools. Complaints seem to center round the mismanagement of 
daytime between-class runs The Senior Trip Committee Announces 
inadequate nighttime service. Some of the complaints noted that busses often leave too soou after some classes;-not allowing 


BALANCE DUE 
enough time for students to get the departing bus. On the nttiPrl""" 
hand, the shuttle has been to run to slowly to allow students 

(*The . Observerl 
Night Editor-Debbie Dahrling Asst. Night Editor-Paul Scha­ppler Layout Staff-Theresa Riche­son, Cindy McKie!, Joe Whea­ton 
Editorial Layout-Chris Smith Features Layout-Tim o' Reiley Sports Layout-Ray O'Brien Typists-Kitty Conklin, Susan Shellenburger, Mel Celeste,• Kathy Egbert Early Morning Typist-Karen Chiames Day Editor-Mary Pat Tarpey Copy Reader-Cathy Nolan Photographer-Anne Frazel 

l}an, beware of flying books in 1 \1he library! ! 
.­
1111-' Ob"•rvt•r "publ"lwd Mondd~ 
through I rtddv diHi WPt>kl\ durtng tht> 'oLII11111Pr ""''''on, PX< epl durtng tlw exam and vacatron pPrtoch The Observer"' publtshed by 'tudPnts of thl' UntversltV of NotrP Dame and St Mary·~ College Sub'ocrtption; mav be pun hasPd for $20 pt•r yPar ($10 J.>Pr SPme~ter) from 1 he Ob;er­ver, Box Q, NotrP Dame, indiana 4b55b Second class postag<' pard, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
The Observer is a member of the Assoc1ated Press. All reproduction rrght'> arP reserved 


BUNCH-OF-LUNCH 
All You Care To Eat! 
11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. -7 Days Week 
Pizza-Chicken-Spaghetti-Salad 
Ages 1 0 and under 20c per year 
ALL MAJOR SPORTS ON 7FT T.V. 


LIVE MUSIC 
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY NIGHTS BEER AND WINE 7 DAYS A WEEK 
expres~. night, and local stops are 
additional goals which the commit­
te hopes to achieve. They also 
hope that the late-night runs will 
eventually include a stop at Holy 
Cross Hall on the N.D. campus. · Littlefield said that the investig­
ation is an example of "the student 
government trying to respond to 
student needs." 

He also noted that the committee will not be seeking a major revision of the shuttle system, but rather an assurance that the present system will be more consistently adhered to. 
The balance on the remainder of the trip will 
be collected next week, Oct. 4-8. so get 
your money together! 
Watch all this week for 
Trip Announcements. 
********************
lt Cinema 77 presents ~!
* . 
If" 
~ "Meet Me In St. Louis" ··~ If" starring Judy Garland lt 
~ Directe_d by Vincent Minne/1 ·lt ""-7:30 & 10:00 p.m. lt ~Engineering Auditorium Admission $1.00 Patron ""­~Cards $5.00 on sale at the door. 
* 
.***********;~~·***** 
Can you 

shoulder it? 
A Lieutenant of Marines. Command a Marine platoon or pilot a multi-million dollar Phantom jet. At your age that's 

more responsibility than most men will ever know. Can you shoulder It? You begin leadership training to earn your lieutenant's bars next summer. No training of any kind Is required during the school year. If you can handle the job, the Corps will make you a Lieutenant of Marines the day you graduate. Introduce yourself to the Marine Officer who visits your campus. 
TheMarines are looking for afew good men to lead. 

Interviewing for leadership positions 
Officer Selection Team 
On Campus , LaFortune Student Center 
Sept. 28-Oct. 1, 9am-4pm 

Tuesday, September 28, 1976 the observer 



Students still not satisfied with waste removal policy 
Conrad criticizes Bowen on several issues 
BACK ···~ (<4-=··· AG­
PRESENTS 

HURRICANES 9 -12
Oldie's Night 
'.25 DRAFTS 

by Jim Bowler Staff Reporter 

Mr. Edmund Price, director of the Notre Dame food services, and three dining hall managers met with several students yesterday afternoon to outline the reasons behind their recent decision to discontinue trash pickups by farm­er George Brown. Brown, a local pig farmer, had been hauling away dining hall garbage to use as feed for his livestock. 
According to Price, "As director of food services, I have the respon­sibility for the safety and sanitation of each food sevice operation under my direction. I am also responsible for the efficient and economical operation of each facility." In the Brown case. Price claimed, "We weren't handling garbage in the proper way. It was very awkward 
(l'ontinued from page 1) Conrad said, "It hasn't changed much since John Dillinger was there in '27. In addition to physical changes, a reassessment of'the purpose of our prisons is necessary, Conrad conti­nued. "You need to make a determination of whether or not you're going to do any rehabilitati­
on: whether you're going to warehouse people, or whether you­'re going to decide that there are 
some people whoaren 't rehabilitat­able, but that there are some that are. Then you've got to provide the services." he stated. 
Thirdly. changes should be made in personnel and morale, Conrad said. People are moved around arbitrarily and there is reclassification "without rhyme or reason to it." 
Many of the prisons are underst­affed as well. Conrad cited the fact that at Pendleton there are not enough employees to man all the 
· guard posts. He added that he was "Surprised, given the circumstan­ces. we have not had a serious problem." Lastly. he criticized the lack of educators employed in the prison system. "The people there now are not educators. They're spendi­ng a little time educating and most of their time providing security." 
Revise the tax structure 

Asked how he would finance prison reform and other measues he advocates, Conrad replied that 
FAST 
TYPEWRITER IR 

he would move first of all to change the tax structure. 
''Indiana has one of the most inequitable tax structures in the United States." he said. Conrad favors graduated, progressive income tax. 
He believes property taxes are based on an "out-dated principal­e" and stated that there will never be tax relief as long as property tax is fused to education. 
There is nothing "fair and equal" about education paid for by property taxes. Conrad continued. Children in wealthy neighborhoods or in areas where industries pay huge amounts of taxes, receive a higher quality education than chil­dren in poorer areas. 
THANX TO All THOSE WHO MADE ouR 
~~BAccHANALIAN AFTER THE NORTHwEsTERN GAME AN OUTRAGEOUS 
AND LASCIVIOUS SUCCESS· SINCERELv. 
~~m...--~12:.:5:...F:..:1~F.:..:TH:..=.....:E=-V:..:AN.=.:..::S:..:T:..:O::;.:.N:...J_ I ADVERTISER COUPON EXPmES 
NO 

Heartbreak 
House 

G. B. Shaw's prophetic comedy. 
Od. 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 at 8:00 p.m.
SMC 

THEATRE 

All seats $2.50 O'LAUGHLIN ($2 Std-Fac-Staff} 
AUDITORIUM 
Special Rate 4 P!ays Phone: 284-417 6 

~~t~IB . 1' 
Conrad also predicted that asse­ssed valuation will swing up when the governor's manual for reasses­sment comes out. He said that Gov. Bowen will not publish the manual until after the election though because of it's consequenc­es. 
To bring more jobs to IndiatJa. Conrad would also get rid of the business inventory tax. This, he explained. is an arbitrary tax levied on business, based on "whatever their inventory happens to be on a given date." 
''I'm against any arbitrary taxe­s," he said. "When it's done without rhyme or reason, then that spreads through the rest of the government." 
~~; 
:~ ~· ~: 


Sound Room 
Sept. 30

Free Record Preener 
Barnaby's 

$1.00 off large pizza 
Oct. 1J 
~ 

Pick them up anytime in the Observer office. 
with county sanitation standards. We had a sanitary problem in the dock area. the storing area, a problem of missing the truck and having to clean it up." 
Mr. Larry Aronson, manager of the North Dining hall, added, "In our dining hall, we don't even have a place to store the garbage anymore." It used to be stored in a room recently taken over by the bakery department. 
Another factor in the decision ws the overall efficency of removal. ''Waste must be minimized.'' Price insisted. "Every precaution is to be taken to suppress the misuse of food by judicious planning and followup." 
"The present procedure is to dispose of garbage through the garbage disoosal units." Price noted, "As soon as it's cre­
ated. This is the most economical 

Industries. aware of the inve­"I don't choose to do that," he ntory tax, avoid Indiana and poten­stated. ''I've seen the rain and I've tial jobs are lost. seen the fire. I think that's what Different style from Bowen you ought to do to stand in a high office. I don't think we elect all
Conrad characterizes himself as those aides to go over the issues."

more of a man of action than Gov. Bowen. He said Bowen depends Conrad concluded by saying he too heavily on the reports of aides thinks one of the reasons that and advisors who do not bring him Bowen does not want to debate all the bad news, allowing him to with him is a fear of the. contrast cut ribbons, smile and do all the between the two men that would public relations work. 1develop. 
rcoup·oNSl!!l
I  ~  
~~  Did you see a good one and  ~  
~  forget to rip it out????  ~  
;m  wE HAvE rHEM ALL  ~~  
~ll~  and each week we'll list the  !~  
·:::f  ones which are -still good:  -;:·  
THE 80 YS FROM ~i~: 


procedure  as  well  as  the  most  
sanitary.:'  
Last  year  new  disposals  were  

installed in the North Dining hall which greatly reduced the amount of garbage that accumlates. Aron­son commented. "This past \\·eek­end. we had only two cans where we used to average about five." 
In the South Dining hall, the use of a sanitary sewer on their conveyor system has all but elim­inated removable waste. 
However. the· students present did not agree with Price's philos­ophy. Director of the Students' Food Advisory Council. Tom Soma. was "not f•JII\· satisfied with Price's answers." ..-1 hope." Soma added. "that we can reach a compromise on the issue. As head of the council. I am going to pursue a few of the possibilities." 

$1.00 ALL NIGHT 
EVERY TUESDAY 
•.25 MIXED DRINKS live Country-Western entertainment Wednesday night! . 
r....----------------­
1/.*rhe Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
Phone•(219)283~8661 [ND) (219)284-5365 [SMC) 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's EDITORIAL BOARD 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-ChiefNotre Dame and St Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Dan Sanchez Managing Editorreflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported 
Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed.
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Gregg Bangs Executive Editorrepresent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. 
Val Zurblis Executive EditorCommentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their Pat Hanifin Editorial E.ditor
authors. Column space is available to all members of the 
Bob Mader Exec. News Editorcommunity, and letters are encouraged to promote the free Maureen Flynn Campus Editor
expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor 
Business Manager Tom Fronczak Don Reimer Copy EditrJr 
Advertising Manager Mike Miller Tim O'Reiley Features Editor 
F:10to Editor Tony Ch ifari Frf'd Herbst Sports Editor Prod1,1ction Manager Martha L ~='anning 
Tuesday, September 28, 1976 


Doonesbury 


THA75 f(f6HT, aYOel HEY, MAN, IS IT IT WA5 OL.' UNCU3 
NAT/3 HARRIS! H/3 P/HOANCES1l:¥i$ UA5 VERY TRUG ON& OF YaiR 
IJScO TO HANG ARlJUNO ti/A5 

.! /tmJ CIV/t, RI6HT5 ? WITH THe L.IKESOF H/3? 
d 
5AMMY TUCKER.!
\ 


"Debates" 

Dear Editor: 
The first "debate" left me frustrated and angry. Is there no man of vision to energize us in the midst of our vast domestic prob­lems? I felt once again that I was being manipulated by the cosmetic experts who were hired to program and preen their customers for my entertainment and my vote. But it wasn't even good theatre. 
The candidates spoke of unem­ployment and inflation with pre­cious little human feeling and with less wisdom as they traded figures on vetoes. But what of the other crucial domestic issues: Did they have nothing to say about our terrible need for adequate housing kgislation? Why be silent at this time in the face or our long over-due comprehensive health care plan; for the need to improve our failing educational system; the national concern about abortion; the tragedy of our crime infested streets; the desegration of our schools; the continuous erosion of our civil liberties; and the failure of our country to improve our mass transportation system. To name but a few of the national domestic problems. 
Not everything, obviously, can be covered in a 90 minute time period which is rigidly structured. But the country is desperate for leadership and greatness in those called to lead. The debate unfortu­nately, gave us a mediocrity which was frightening. 
Msgr. John Egan 

Women, too 
Dear Editor: 
At 2:ooa.m.Friday night before the game, a group of young men decided toserenadeBreen Phillips. It's not that I don't like this demonstration of affection, but singing "Rally Sons of Notre 
*Observer 
Editorials 

W&ll, SAMMYWA5 ON/3 OF THE FF-W BLACKL£AO£RS OF HIS T/M&-5. 
BUT8£/?JRE 7HATH/3 WAS A 5LAV~ ANOM16HtV& REMA!NeO ONE JIAD 
NOTA COPYQC 7Hc oea.A/?ATION OF INIJCPtNOENC£ fi4t.teN IN!0/-115 

seriously, folks~~~~!!!!!!!!!!! Carter, playboy and lust 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiia r t bu c hwaI d 
WASHINGTON--The day that at her feet?'' Jimmy Carter's famous quotes "Adultery was the furthest thing from Playboy were released was from my mind. J. was breathing also the same day he issued a heavily because I had too much paper on how to save the American chicken cacciatore." family. Mr. Carter has said that he "Jimmy Carter says he's com­is very concerned about what is mitted adultery in his heart many happening to the American family, times." and if he becomes President one of "But he's from Georgia. They his priorities will be to br.ing it back have nothing else to do down there. together again. I live in Washington where none of 
Well, I must say the Playboy us has time for such thoughts." interview didn't do much in our She said, "Well, he says God family to heal any wounds. firgives him when he does it, but 
For those who have been down in I'm telling you right now, if I ever a coal mine all week and haven't catch you committing adultery in y read what Mr. Carter told Playboy, your heart you can pack your he admitted that he has looked at a bags." lot of women with lust. But he said "You'll never'catch me," I God forgives sinners, including assured her. "There are some men adulterers. "This is something who lust after women and there are God recognizes I will do," he was others who don't. You're fortunate quoted as saying, " ... and I have to be married to one who doesn't." done it ... and God forgives me for "Don't tell me you've never had it. But that doesn't mean that I a fantasy about having an affair condemn someone who not only with another woman?" looks on a woman with lust, but "What's an affair?" who leaves his wife and shacks up "What President Ford said he with somebody out of wedlock." would never approve of his daugh­
The problem with this thinking is ter Susan having." that while God is willing to forgive "Oh, that kind of an affair," I men for lusting thoughts, most said. "The answer is no. The Lord wives aren't--at least not where I said to think of having one is the live. , same thing as having one, and 
The night after Mr. Carter's frankly since I've been playing views were publicized I went to a tennis, I tire easily." dinner party at a friend's house where there were some very attrac­"Well, at least Jimmy Carter is tive wives and single women. man enough to admit his sins,'' she 
When we got home my wife said, said bitterly. "I saw you lusting after Florence "That's unfair. Just because Pennyweather.'' Carter confessed he lusts after 
"I wasn't lusting after her," I women in his heart doesn't prove protested. "I was talking to her everyone in the country does. about tax cuts for the median class Gerry Ford bumps his head every of American who makes an average time he gets out of a helicopter. of $12,000 a year." That doesn't mean every other man 
"Your were lusting while your has to bump his head." were talking." "There were several other hus­
_"How do you know that?" bands at the party lusting after "I say it in your eyes." women," she said. "That wasn't lust," I protested. "If they were_, I can't criticize 
"The look· was caused by my them," I said, "Because that eyeglasses. You see, when you would be a sin of pride, which wear bifocals they give off this odd Carter said is worse than lust." effect that some people could "How can I believe that when­interpret as lust. Ask any optomet­ever we go out to a party you are rist." committing adultery in your 
''Are you trying to tell me that heart?" you weren't committing adultery in ''As Carter would say, 'Trust your heart when you sat on a stool me.'" 
Dame" just isn-'t appropriate. Isn't it about time that they noticed that we're not all "sons", and change the words? 
For two years now, I've sung our fight song, at the top of my lungs on many ocasions, ending it with as "our loyal sons and daughters march on to victory". (Hammer­stein could have done better!) So, 
can't you please join with us and help to Improve our fight song'! Granted, it's the football players who are "marching on to victory" but shall we make up a different song for women's varsity and intramural sports? Is it too much to rewrite a simple but very tradition­al fight song and admit that women are here to stay, or would this be the straw that broke the alumnus back? 
Mary Ann Moorman 
A candidate is born 

Dear Editor: 
Presidential campaigns used to be about such tedious matters as unemployment, tariffs, taxes, na­tional defense, and foreign policy. It is a sign of progress that the 1976 campaign is focused on more relevant issues. Both major candi­dates, though male, have discu!lsed abortions exhaustively--have grap­pled manfully with abortion, one might say. President ,Ford has informed us that, unlike his wife, he does not think it likely that Susan Ford would undertake an affair with anyone but that if she did he would remonstrate with her about it. Governor Carter has acknowledged that he has commit­ted a highly ethereal form of adultery many times but is sure God has forgiven him. 
Realization that matters of this sort are now the central issues in the campaign has led me to re-assess my position. Though long the embattled Presidential candidate of the Crusted Reaction ary Alliance I had decided against running this year because it ap­peared that my views on old fashioned campaign issues were shated by so few voters that victory was impossible. Since it is now clear that the true issues, those which genuinely excite the voter/>. are primarily biological, psycholo­gical, and moral, I will now reactivate my candidacy. After all, I know as much about biology as Messrs. Ford and Carter. Between now and election day I expect to issue several position papers on moral behavior, public and private, normal and abnormal. 
All concerned citizens are invited to support my campaign. Contribu­tions from any source will be accepted gratefully. These may be in checks or cash, in large amounts or small, in U.S. or foreign cur­rency, from private individuals or special interests. No questions will be asked, no receipts given, no records kept, and nothing will be leaked to the newspapers. If no member of my staff is available just shove the money under the door of 348 O'Shaughnessy. 
Yours for a finer America, 
Bernard Norling History Department 



--~~----­
Innovations in Ceramics molded at St. Mary's 
Maureen Sajbel 
Tire tracks, painted bricks, swimmer, having substance. It's a playing with little blue lake, bird's nest: ceramics? formalism," explain's Rosato. "The work Certainly. is reflective of the attitude towards 
Ceramics pieces often take on many ceramics in California.'' traditional forms. They can be sculptural, Maxwell's work, also in floor pieces, is functional or literal. Then there are those done in a sand printing method using ceramic pieces made by artists who are ceramic objects as machines. The work of looking a little further, those whose sense art, therefore, is the patterned sand, rather of adventure takes them into an entirely than the ceramic piece itself. different realm of art. ''The purpose was to see if I could 
The St. Mary's College National Ceramic extend the potential of the object I worked Invitational has brought together ten such with," said Maxwell. "It's getting away innovative artists for a powerful show this from the object being the piece of work, but month in St. Mary's Moreau gallery. what it did was the work." Selected artists from around the country, Both artists are available during gallery whose work reflects the changing attitudes hours and welcome discussion with those in ceramics, were invited by Kate McDon­who come to see the show. They have nell, Gallery Coordinator at St. Mary's, to found their stay beneficial so far with submit work for this month long show. regard to meeting people, getting new 
"We wanted to present a cognitive ideas for their work, and hearing the inquiry about the artists who were working reactions of the community to their art clay in innovative forms,'' explained forms. McDonnell. "This work is an extension "I think this kind of opportunity doesn't from the pedestal.'' happen very often," stated Maxwell, wht!n 
Each work reflects some aspect of the asked about corning to St. Mary's with his changing outlook of American artists in the work. field of ceramics. Two of the artists, Toni Besides these two of the most recent Rosato from Ohio and William Jackson innovators in the field, the show includes Maxwell frorri California, have accompa­works by artists who have changed the nied their works and will be in residence concept and nature of ceramics radically in for the duration of the show. Both artists the last 30 years. have brought works which are termed In the 1950's, a movement began in "installation pieces", works that are which differences between ceramic sculp­environmentally oriented and change with ture and pottery lessened as artists began conditions and available space. Rosato's to mix media. A leader in this movement work includes suspended and abstract floor was Peter Voulkos, one of the ten pieces of wood and clay. contributors in the St. Mary's show. 
''The attitude of the work is playful and Voulkos , a Californian, abandoned the light, though not light in the terms of not traditional ideas of ceramic form and 
Cinema 77 
The Good Old Days 
Dauid O'Keefe 
Every "once in a while we get tired of '·dead'· dolls in the cemetery. movies fraught with ideas; ideas about But Meet Me in St. Louis is primarily society. morality, interpersonal or existen­concerned with the lives and loves of the tial relationships, the meanderings of the two oldest daughters, Rose and Esther. mind or the seclusion of the soul. It does a Rose (Lucille Bremer) is a seemingly body good to break loose occasionally, to confident coquette, who seems to measure sit back and enjoy a movie that makes no her ultimate success 'or failure in terms of attempt at intellectual stimulation. That's the number of suitors she attracts. She is entertainment. as kind as her sisters, but Minelli paints he 
One of the finest examples of this rare a bit preoccupied, primarily to provide a breed that 1 have ever seen is Meet Me In contrast to Esther. St. Louis. It typifies the movie as magic Judy Garland is Esther, and I doubt that rather than machination. It appeals to the there has ever been as enchanting a heart instead. of the head. wherein lies the heroine in anv musical. Garland translates delightful experience of the film; it is a rare the kindness and virtue of Rose to a truly opportunity for colebration rather than human personage, with such deft subtlety cerebration. that the success of the film can almost be 

attributed directly to her and the contagion of sincerity that she generates. Her presence permeates the entire movie as it did in The Wizard of Oz and A Star Is Born, and it was this grace and honesty of performance that made her the best musical actress of•her time. 
In Meet Me In St. Louis, she is perfect as Esther, the thoughtful and selfless sister who looks out for everyone else's happi­ness, leaving her own pretty much to chance. Such virtue · can hardly go unrewarded, and in the purely idyllic happiness of the story, it doesn't. 
Meet Me In St. Louis is Vincente The finest scenes in the movie are the Minelli's colorful 1944 musical about a musical scenes. From the joyful chorus or turn-of-the-century family in St. Louis. "The Trolley Song" to the truly moving The movie is based on stories by Sally "Have Yourself a Merry Little Christ­Benson recounting her childhood that mas'', each song is consistent with the appeared in the New Yorker magazine. In story. The viewer isn't subjected to the the film, the Smith family is immediately obnoxious idiocy of people bursting out in endearing, both individually and collective­song for no apparent good reason. The ly. The sincerity of their warmth and love musical scenes are done with simplicity makes the general impression of the film as and taste. Minelli allows the sheer power idyllic and enchanting as a print by Courier of the voices, especially Judy Garland's, to and lves. carry the scenes. The result is songs with 
It is to Minelli's credit as well as to the meaning and emotional impact, rather than credit of the superb cast that the movie innoccuous toe-tappers and production never plunges to the depths of sap and numbers designed to fill in the time saccharine. Mr. Alonzo Smith, played between the action. masterful)y by Leon Ames, is the typical Musicals are a. dying breed. The form father of girls, constantly -victimized and has been consistently abused or altogether confused by the emotional behavior of his neglected in recent years. Perhaps we daughters, often with very funny results. have become so demanding that we are no Mary Astor as Mrs. Smith is typically longer able to grant a film our willing soothing and understanding as only a suspension of disbelief. Maybe our taste mother can be. Child star Margaret has become too distinguished or our desire O'Brien won an Oscar for her role as for pure entertainment has been extin­Tootie, the youngest daughter, who spends guished. But in any event, Meet Me In St. most of her time in such pursuits as riding Louis is witness to the sad reality that they the wagon with the iceman or burying her don't make 'em like they used to. 
• 

functionality by introducing a sculptural sculptured aspect into his pottery. His work in the The six other contributing arti!>ts include show includes three large wall-hung disks Paul Soldner from Colorado, Ken Little in earth tones. from Montana, Steve Reynolds from Texa'i 
Another historical innovator in the and Robert Anderson, Bill Gilbert and Jal·k Invitational is Robert Arneson, also from Mielsen, all from California. Their works California. Arneson, also from California. are not restricted in emotion or form and Arneson helped initiate the 1950's Funk also reflect the break with traditional movement in ceramics. He employs the ceramic pieces. elements of satire and humor in his work by taking everyday objects and in some The Moreau Galleries are located ·be­way twisting or.changing them. One of his neath the O'Laughlin Auditorium in well-known pieces is a typewriter with Moreau Hall and are open every day. with fingers instead of keys. In the St. Mary's the exception of Friday. from 12:30 to 4:30. Invitational, Arneson has submitted a The show, which opened September 10, series of painted bricks and several will be at St. Mary's until October 10. 
Records 

Then, too, you have to hear Jon's incredible cover version of Chuck Berry's "Back In The U.S.A." and his modified tango rendition of "Amazing Grace." All are truly unbelievable performances in the face of a total absence of pitch and rhythm. 
The wierd thing about this guy is that I think he's serious and not attempting self-parody or anything along those lines. In that case he's going to be awfully disappointed when nobody buys his album. 
!r .I But just getting this album produced and 
\ fi...... •• 

released was probably a moral victory for Jonathan. 
I' / i
I 

Johnathan Richman 
~ the Modern Lovers By Dom Salemi 
One thing people could never accuse Jonathan Richman of lacking is guts. Talent and melodic sensibility yes, but not any of that stuff New Englanders call gumption. This is the worst record of the year and probably of all times unless you "re counting ersatz Rolling Stones releases like Rocks. 
What's so amazing and disappointing about this lp is that the very same group put out another album awhile back that 

reached cult status a few weeks after it was Earthquake is another of those cultreleased. This lp, however, is not going to bands who have achieved legendary statusend up anywhere but in the local cut out without their following ever extendingbins of your local supermarkets behind all beyond a region. They are an interestingthose Jim Nabors and Mystic Moods and talented quintet, who have toiled foralbums. 
years in relative obscurity in San Francis­I'm not going to blame the Modern co, playing at local high s-chool dances andLovers for this travesty, because they antiquated ballrooms. As a result of theirdidn't write any of the songs. It is perfectly local following, Earthquake has beenobvious from their obsequious smirks on labeled a "dance" band, and relegated tothe album jacket that they are all obscurity by the few record companies that undergoing analysis, and that playing with have shown any interest at all in the SanJon is a type of therapeutic prescription. 
Francisco scene.
Then again they don't really play on the Basically a hea.vy metal band thatalbum. They sort of meander in the depends on strong rhythm lines. 8.5 maybackground until the song ends, then they surprise because of the versatility display­all laugh hysterically thinking the tape ed by the band. This is not just anothermachine has stopped and they are going to loud local band trying to make good. but apull something over on an unsuspect­talented band of veterans who know how toing public. To want to produce something play rock and roll. The songwriting duo of as mindless as this would either mean you vocalist John . Doukas and lead-guitaristwere hopelessly insane or inane. Producer Robbie Dunbar possess a certain flair forJ. Blodgett evidently needed the money, writing powerful songs laced with infec­but was not about to let the average tious three chord progressions. Doukas. 
consumer think that he was in any way additionally,displays the ability to handle aresponsible for these sounds. 
sensistive and moving song like "He Likes 
Jonathan Richman is not insane, he's To Hurt You," as well as belt out just a terrifically untalented man who ran something as racous as "Finders Keep­out of Lou Reed riffs to rip off and had ers." the unmitigated gall to put out an album Nor does Earthquake rely solely on its consisting of nothing but novelty tunes. rhythm section. "Savin' My Love," and If you think I'm kidding, just listen to some "Don't Want To Go Back," showcase the of these song titles: "Abominable Snow­individual talent of the band with their long man in the Market," "Rockin' Shopping instrumental brea~s and frequent soloing. Center," "Lonely Financial Zone," "Hey There Little Insect," "Here Come The Alblum Courtesy of Martian Martians," All are the work of one incredibly bizarre mind. Just for the Record 
.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------·---------~ ---­
the observer Tuesday, September 28, 1976
6 

Philosophy conference deemed big success 
by Greg Besio Staff Reporter 

Professor Cornelius Delaney, Philosphy Department chairman jeemed the Philosophy of Religion :::onference, held this weekend, a oig success. The conference, .vhich took place in the Center for :::ontinuing Education, attracted 'eading philosophers and theolo­~ians from across the nation to ;peak on the topic "Religious :Jelief and Rationality.". 
One of the highlights of the conference included a presentation 
by John Smith, a professor of philosophy at Yale University, which took a historical perspective on the rationale for religious be­liefs, contrasted with the analy­tical. scientific persepctive pre­sented by Alvin Plantinga, an associate professor of philosophy at Calvin College and Notre Dame. 
Prof. Delaney attributed the success of the conference to the uniform quality of papers pre­sented and the lively discussions which followed. "For a conference person the authors who they had studied in their philosophy cour­ses." 
According to Delaney, the Phi­losophy department would like to expand its capabilities into tiJe area 
Rains cause McCandless to leak 
by Honey McHugh Staff Reporter 

During the heavy rains this past .vcekend, McCandless Hall was ·eminded of its ever present "leak­tgc problem". It seems that tttempts to repair the roof last .pring have proven to be unsuc­·essful and the residents are now ;uffcring the consequences. 
·'There have been complaints ·rom the girls on the fifth floor tbout leaks in study carrells and in he rooms,'' Hall Director Dianne 3enjamin commented, ''but these tave been referred to mainten­mce. 

Th situation has apparently exis­ed for the past few years and the 1all residents feel that something nust be done to alleviate the Jroblem considering the amount of money being spent for the rooms. Books as well as other personal belongings have been damaged by the leaks. 
"We feel we should have ade­quate housing," Sue Gauthier, hall president remarked, while R.A. 
Heart to· perform at Morris Civic 

Rock group Heart has been signed for a Wednesday, October 13 concert at South Bend's Morris Civic Auditorium. Chicago group Kracker will open the show. 
Tickets for the Heart concert are now on sale at the Morris Civic box office and the following River City Review ticket outlets: Just For the 
Record  (100 Center),  Boogie  Re­ 
cords,  Record  Joint  (Niles)  and  
Suspended Chord (Elkhart).  


EARTH WIND & FffiE 
and Special guest to be announced 
Friday Oct. 15 8:00PM 
Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets $6.50 Main floor and all padded seats 
5.50 Bleachers
l•
I 

On omle now at: ACC box office, Boo~ie Records, 
t Robertson's-South Bend & Concord Mall, St. Joseph 
I 
I 

Bank & bran('hes, First Bank Main branch only, 
t 

The Elkhart truth and Suspended Cord in ~lkhart,
l 
\• 

and the Record Joint in NilN.
• 

of its size, it generated a broad of Philosophy of Religion. "We range of response." Delaney said. would like to make Notre Dame a 
The conference attracted a fairly point of focus in the country for large audience. "There were 150 Philosophy of Religion," said De­to 400 people at each session," laney. Delaney estimated. "Some had To accomplish this goal, Prof. driven from as far as Minneapolis Frederick J. Crosson, director of 
and Nashville to attend, but most were students who wished to see in 
Karen Hinks feels. "that the conditions are not really pleasant.'' 
Leaks have been discovered in the halls, patiicularly outside the elevator and in the rooms which face the site of the new recreation building. At present, there are buckets in the hallways to hopefully salvage the carpets. 
When asked to comment on the progress of the repairs, Mainten­ance Director Frank Springer sta­ted, "We're taking repairs as they come. Right now we're waiting for estimates from contractors but until then we're working on it and making minor adjustments where necessary.'' 
the newly inaugurated Center for the Philosophy of Religion, has appointed new faculty for the department. Also, the Center will sponsor biannual conferences and will host visiting scholars wishing to work at Notre Dame. 

UNITED STATES READING LAB OFFERS SPEED READING COURSE AT NOTRE DAME 
United States Reading Lab will offer a 4 week course in speed reading to a limited number of qualified people at Notre Dame. 
This recently developed method of instruction is the most innovative and ef. 
fective program available in the  United  
States.  
Not  only  does  this  famous  course  

reduce your time in the classroom to just one class per week for 4 short weeks but it also includes an advanced speed reading course on cassette tape so that you can continue to improve for the rest of your life. In just 4 weeks the average student should be reading 4-5 times faster. In a few months some students are reading 20-30 times faster attaining speeds that approach 601)0 words per minute. In rare instances speeds of up to 13,000 wpm have been documented. 
Our average graduate should read 7-10 times faster upon completion of the course with marked improvement in comprehension and concentration. 
For those who would like additional information, a series of free, one hour, orientation lectures have been schedules. 
At these free lectures the course will be explained in complete detail, including classroom procedures, instruction meth­ods, class schedule and a special 1 time only introductory tuition that is less than one-half the cost of similar courses. You must attend any of the free meetings for information about Notre Dame classes. 
These orientations are open to the public, above age 14 (persons under 18 shou!d be accompanied by a parent if possible). 
If you have always wanted to be a speed reader but found the cost prohibi­tive or the course too time consuming ... now you can! Just by attending 1 evening per week for 4 short weeks you can read 7 to 10 times faster, concentrate better and r..omprehend more . 
If you are a student who would like to make A's instead of B's or C's or if you are a business person who wants to stay abreast of today's everchanging acceler­ating wor~d then this course is an absolute necessity. 
These free special one-hour lectures will be held at the following times and places. 
NOTRE DAME M EETJNGS 
Tuesday: Sept. 21, at 6:30 p.m.'·and again at 8 :30 p.m. Wednesday: Sept. 22, at 6:30 p.m. and again at 8 :30 p.m. Thursday: Sept. 23, at 6:30 p.m. and again at 8 :30 p.m. 
Friday: Sept. 24, at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. Sunday: Sept. 26, at 2:30p.m. and again at 5:30p.m. Monday: Sept. 27, at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. 
TWO FINALMEETINGS 
Tuesday: Sept. 28, at 6:30 p.m. and again at8:30 p.m. 
THESE MEETINGS WILL BE HELD AT NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR CONTIN­UlNG EDUCATION 
If you are a businessman, student, housewife or executive this cause, which took 5 years of intensive research to dev~lop, is a must. You can read 7 -10 times faster, comprehend more, concen­trate better, and remember longer. Students are offered and additional discount. This course can be taught to tindustry or civic groups at "Group rates" upon request. Be sure to attend whichever free orientation that fits best in your schedule . 
Notre Dame harriers drop second meet of season 
by Gregory Solman I Sports Writer 

Health, or rather, lack of it, has been the key to Irish Cross-Country woes this season, and last Satur­day's loss to Michigan State couldn't have been too conducive to the health of Coach.Joe Piane, who witnessed his team's second defeat in as many meets. The score was a disheartening 35-20. 
All-American Herb-Lindsay, however, was in perfect health yesterday, as he broke the course record he set in 1974. Lindsay, in addition to crossing the tape first. ran the five-mile course in 24:06 breaking his own course record of 
24:33.5. That explains why the Spartan runner is an All-American. 
Lindsay was followed in the next four spots by his teammates jeff Pullen, Paul Morrison and Stan Mavis. That explains the score. 
Through the gloom of defeat, light did break through, however. Jim Reinhart, in placing fifth, again ran a strong race, and-Dennis VanderKraats and Dan Horgan followed him to maintain the team leadership. 
The truly bright lights of the race were freshmen Fred Stepan and Kevin Kenny, who both turned in their second straight outstanding performances. 
Kenny, who polled eighth in the race, commented that he was ''excited about running for Notre Dame.'' 
"We're a surprisingly close group. The entire team stays together," commented Kenny. 
Kenny lauded praise for the leadership of VanderKraats, Hor­gan and Reinhart. Stepan added Coach Piane to the list of people that wer'e helping them in adjus­ting 
Both freshmen, roommates at 

Zahm, churn out roughly fifteen 
miles a day. Their biggest adjust­
ment, they felt. was the transition 
to running a five mile course after 
running two-mile high school cour­
ses for so long. 
(continued from page 1) electoral votes: New York, Penn­sylvania, New Jersey, Massachu­setts, Connecticut and Rhode Is­land. Ford would carry only one state, Vermont, with three states, Maine, New Hampshire and Del­ll;Ware up for grabs. 
There are, however, three main factors helping Carter. The Demo­cratic Party is united at the national 
, level for the first time in twelve years: there is massive labor-union Rolitical drives and there is support from urban blacks and white evan­gelical Protestants in rural and small-town areas. 
Ford increases percentage 

The Times/CBS poll revealed that 55 percent agreed with the statement. "At least I know what kind of President Gerald Ford will be. I'm not so sure about Jimmy Carter." Thirty-two percent dis­agreed. Now after the debates, the margin had widened in Ford's favor 66 to 27 percent. 
Despite this sentiment, the re­spondents in the survey thought Jimmy Carter "really cares about people like me" by a 50 to 25 percent margin. They believed that Carter was more sincere, 39 to 34 percent; Carter made them more comfortable, 42 to 37 percent; they agree with Carter on more issues, 44 to 40 percent and Carter seems more intelligent, 33 to 32 percent. 
Ford had the. widest margin in this survey of feelings. By a margin of 56 to 21 percent, the people surveyed indicated Ford had a more detailed knowledge about how government works. Also the poll revealed that Ford is more of a leader by a 39 to 36 percent margin. 
"Playboy" Interview 

The significance of Carter's in­terview with Playboy magazine in which he expressed his views on adultery "was not clear." Only three percent changed their views in the Times/CBS poll. However, 18 percent of the voters said they were less likely to vote for Carter in a poll conducted by Newsweek and the Gallup Poll Organization. 
Michael ford, the eldest son of the President, felt Carter's views on adultery were an "honest expression'' in a story by the Associated Press. Ford, who will graduate from Gordon-Cro­well Theological Seminary next 
Regardless of their heaith prob­lems, the ND Irish will be out in force October eighth, when the biggest meet, the Notre Dame 
Invitational, will be held. 
Top Ten Finishers 

I)  Herb Lindsey (MSU)  
2)  J ff P IIe u en  (Msu)  
3)  Paul Morrison (MSU)  

4) Stan Mavis (MSU) 
5) Jim Reinhart (ND) 24:06 
24:32 

24:57 -,..a-ga_i_n_s_t-K·a-la•m-az_o_o_._____• 
25:02 • 25:09 

6) Dennis VanderKraats (ND) 25:32 
7)  Dan Horgan (ND)  25:54  
8)  Kevin Kenny (ND)  25:56  
9)  Fred Stepan (ND)  25:59  
10) Tom Ellspermann (MS U)  26: II  
Final Score:  20-35  

Polls show. Ford gains on Carter 
year, said, "He expressed the tenets of his personal and Christian faith and commented how 'it related to various human temptations that he and all of us encounter." 
The next debate between the Presidential candidates will take place on Oct. 6. 
Grateful Dead tix 
are available now 
Tickets _still remain for this Friday's Grateful Dead Concert at Market Square "Arena, Indianapo­lis. Festival seating tickets are on sale at Notre Dame Student Union ticket office and all River City Review ticket outlets in the South Bend area. 
Bus tickets for the Student Union chartered bus to Friday's concert in Indianapolis are also available at the Student Union ticket office. 
In other concert news, tickets for the Friday, October 15 Earth, Wind & Fire concert at the A.C.C. and the Monday, October 18 Ted Nugent and Montrose concert at Kalamazoo's Wings Stadium are now on sale at all River City Review ticket outlets. 
Tuesda Sep_tember 28, 1~9~76~---=-t:..:h--=e~o"-'b=s..::e:..:r_v=-e-=--=-r--~7 
Field hockey team wins 
The Notre Dame women's field hockey team played to a scoreless tie with DePauw and beat Kalama­zoo 3-0 during "Field Hockey Day" Saturday on Cartier Field. DePauw beat Kalamazoo in the other con­test of the afternoon, 4-0. 
Corners and forward attacks were greatly improved for the Irish women over their last outing. Compared to only 13 in Thursday's game against Goshen, Notre Dame had two corners and 13 forward 
attacks against DePauw and 12 
corners and 19 forward attacks 
arm 
Barber & Hair 
a 
Style Shop Open six days a · week 
Sat 8 to 3:00 1437 N. Ironwood South Bend Appointment only 0 

277-0615 ' Q Close to Campus 0 

FREE!!! . 
Soft drink with 3 items 
• 
TACOS • BAB1 TACO 

• 
IIRRITOS • TAMALES 

• 
EIICIILADAS • TACO DOC 

• 
TOSTADOS • BEAN TACO 

• 
BARBEQUE TACO 

• 
SPAIIISI lOT tol 

• 
CHEESEBURGER 




Specializing in vegetarian Foods. 
SCOTTSDALE MALL 

All of the corners and goals came in the second half against Kalama­zoo, as Mary Ann Dooley and Maureen Maloney tallied for the Irish. 
Saturday's results bring the No­tre Dame record to 1-2-1. 
*Observer 
Sports 
If you're good enough, you can be a Navy Nuclear Officer. 
The Navy needs some very speci 
tre Dame graduates who to find out how good Who will consider and demanding lcnonr·an,. the most exciting chal­
e of their lives. A challenge th ads to an exciting future as a N fficer aboard a nuclear-om"'PrPn• 

urfact ship or submarine. 
Navy on Campus 
October 6-8. 
Lt. Mike Fitzgerald 
Make Appointments with Placeme 
Office. 

l 
l 
1 
... 
NOTICES 
Will teach flute in your spare time. 
Call Beth-8112 tor more info. 
Gay Hotline: 8870. October 1 and 2, 8:00p.m. to 10:00 p.m. G.C.N.D. 
P.O. Box 206 Notre Dame. 
Trader's Villaoe open 10-4. Used furniture, antiques and collecti­bles. 255-0314. 13000 blk. McKin­ley, Mish. 1 block north Frances St. 

Morrissey Loan Fund $20-150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune Basement, m-f 11:15-12:15. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-07 46. 
PRE-LAW SOCIETY. On Tuesday, September 28, there will be an 8:00 
p.m. meetin<1 in the South Lounne of Walsh Hall for all women interested in the law profession. Dean 
Waddick and three women students will be speakin<1 fieldino questions concernino school and related topics.  law and law  
LOST AND FOUND  

Lost: ND school rin<1 -LaFortune ­Reward! .Caii'C.A.B at 1812. 
Lost: 1 hi(lh school ring --says Benet Academy. Red stone, yellow (]old settin[l, 197 4 ring, initials 
P.A.R. 1 St. Mary's class ring; traditional diamond chip, 1978 ring, initials P.A. R. B.A. gold antiqued settinG. Lost somewhere between ND and SMC. Call Patti 4;5723. 
WANTED 

Need four pair of G. A. Oregon tix. 
Call Tom at 1715 or 288-8417. 
PLENTY OF CASH for 3 G.A. Oreoon tickets. Gus 6726. 
Really need "Cryan Shames" album -"A Scratch in the Sky" call 4-523'6. Will pay bio $$$. 
Need four Orenon tix. Can be 2 and 
2. No thieves need call. For friends. Call Cole 288-5667. Thanks, 
Need Ore[lon G.A. Tix. Call Kathy, 4418. 
WE WILL TRAIN YOU. ·part-time or full-time. We will train and provide steady employment to hon­est, dependable persons who are willino and able to learn. 
We are a lar[le company involved in the inside cleanin[l and housekeep­in[! of buildin[ls. Apply at ITT Buildinn Services, 1608 Commerce Drive, South Bend, Ind. Applica­tions accepted on Tues., Wed. and Thursday between 9-11 a.m. and 
1:30 and 3 p.m., and on Sat. from 
9-11  a.m.  Equal opportunity em­ 
ployer.  
FARLEY  MOTELEES:  Apt.  

furnished, utilities, livinn, kitchen, bath, own room. $67.50. Connie 8492 days, 289-9110, 255-7571 eves. 
Need 4 Oreoon tix. Can be 2 and 2. No thieves need calL Call Cole 288-5667­
Need 2 G. A. Bama tix desperately. Call 1785 
Desperately need ride to Columbus, Ohio weekend of Oct. 9. Call Gar~ 1785. 
Go West ! ! ! In search of Ore11on tickets. Call Grego at 1650. ­
Classified Ads 
Girl seeks housino uroently. Prefers separate room. Call Annalisa 6584. 
Typino· wanted: picked up and delivered, reasonable. Diane 683-7759. 
Pizza Delivery help wanted with car. Fat Wally's. 2046 S. B. Ave. 
Waitresses wanted. Must be 21. Apply 4-7 p.m. Fat Wally's 2046 
S.B. Ave. 
Wanted: Assistant Householder for psychiatric half-way house facility. ·Primarily weekend work involvino 
overnioht stay. Room, board plus 
small salary. An excellent experi­
ence tor anyone interested in social 
services work. Call 234-1049 for 
further information.. 
ROLL, TIDE -not some extra G.A tix you wanna get rid of fast? Call Mary 8125. 
4 G.A. Alabama tix. needed. 
Desperate. Call John 287-6823. 
BAMA tickets needed -2 G.A.'s 
tooether.  Price flexible.  Call Dave  
8528.  
FOR SALE  

NEW LONDON LAKE CONDO+ MINIUM. lf• BEDROOMS, DEN, lf• CAR GARAGE !'¥s'¥s, &??. Sandy Stroes 272-7750 -272-2696. 
1!&. w. Honda 450 excellent condi­tion. $650 or trade for car. Call Charlie 277-0692 after 6 p.m. 
One Michi[lan State ticket. Call Marj 3605. 
Good condition Oldsmobile F-85 year 66! Call 289-4736 for informa­tion .. 
Factory-sealed Maxell U D-XL 90 min. cassette tapes. $4.75. Call 1182. 
62 'Mercedes 220. 4-dr. Stereo, radials, fine condition $1100. 287­7693. 
34 ~. Mustano conv., classic, very oood condition, new top, new tires, 289 eno. $1100. 287-7693. 
For sale: Mich. St. ticket. Call 289-8316. 
Calculator for sale -Texas Instru­ments SR-11. Orininal box with full accessories. $90-new, sell $35. Dave 8528. 
PERSONALS 
M.R., Want to do theE STREET SHUFFLE? mw 
Maid Marion of Sherwood Forest's new phone number is 4829. 
Baa baa black sheep. How about a hot wax job? Bella 
Dear Leo: Don't laugh at Mark too hard --it's your turn next Monday!!! Maliciously again, The Wild Bunch IV and Friends 
Be a political hack! Work for the AI Lowenstein congressional cam­paign. See wonderful New York City during October Break. Contact Tim-6701. 
Many, many thanks to the guy who payed my bus fare Monday. The next one's on me. 
Margie, Should I sleep with one eye open? Dakota 
Interested in Jewish Theolooy? Call Mary Lou Bilek at 5779 and let her tell you all about Yom Gipper, the old Bible Leanue and Jesus Christ­bero. · 
Boot, Have you found your true love from Purdue yet? 
Cathy: 
Thanks for the "nood vibrations" last Friday. Sorry that Sunday wasn't "fun, fun, fun" too' 
Bill 
Nancy Cueroni is findin[l it hard to cope these days. If you can [live you advice on how to achieve peace of mind, please let her know. 
Beth -much thanx for the extra set of eyes. Now I can see you in my dreams. T. 
dskdlfnirlib 4in4 4i b4ib ii4vnk iro<1irtvtu8967 2084562079vn290376 pov5 im6u259086bn7 8 pw697845n692 
GLASSES. Call Tom 289-0114. 

-


-------------~­
8 the observer Tuesday, September 28, 197_!"1 
lrish.Jayvees down Indiana 24-10 
by Paul Stevenson led 7-0. 
Sports Writer The Irish rebounded against the flexible Hoosier defense, using the combined running abilities of Dan 
The time was 2 pm on Sept. 26. Knott, Pete Pallas and Kerry 1976; the place was Cartier Field Moriarity moved the Notre Dame and the weather was miserable·. offense 70 yards for the Notre Yet. the Fighting Irish Junior Dame score. Pallas completed the Vrsity took to the field, pounding drive, finding the endzone on a the Indiana Hoosiers 24-10. third and goal from the one yard 
"We wanted to meet strength line. The Unis extra point was with strength," stated Francis successful and the score now read Pcay, the new Irish J.V. 7-7. coach. "We believed if we could Notre Dame was forced to punt stop their !-formation from func­after their next possession, due to a tioning. we could win the football previously incurred holding penalty game. which set up a fourth and 12. 
The Irish defense allowed Indi­However, the Hoosiers gave the 
ana a mere 84 yards rushing, a Irish a second chance as they were performance typical of their bigger called for roughing the kicker. brothers on the number one squad. The Irish offense once again The Notre Dame offense. in con­began to spark as they moved 60 
trast to their opponents, compiled yards for the second Irish score. 23J yards rushing and 97 yards Once again Knott and Pallas were passing for 330 total yards. called on to lead the rushing game. The defense exhibited their However, the key rlay was a 23,.. strength early in the first quarter, yard completion from Moriarity to 
when the Notre Dame offense Dennis Grindinger. Grindinger coughed up the football on th eir was forced out of bounds, giving own IS yard line. Indiana could the Irish a first and ten at the 16 not capitalize on the ND error, as yard line with only. one minute and the defense held on fourth and five seconds remaining in the half. three from the eight yard line. Two plays later Knott scored on a 
The first quarter ended without a nine yard run giving the Irish their 
score. Early in the second quarter first lead of the ballgame. Unis the Irish began to move. The added the point after and the Irish offense stalled on the Indiana 13 lead 14-7 at halftime. yard line, forcing a field goal The Notre Dame defense held IU attempt. The 30-yard three point on their first possession of the 
attempt by Joe Unis was blocked second half. The Irish offense took and the memontum shifted to the command. marching to the Indiana Hoosiers. ten yard line before sputtering. 
-Immediately, Hoosier quarter­Unis once again came on, giving 
back Brett DeVault threw long, the Irish a 17-7 lead with his 27 finding wide receiver Ken Crase yard field goal. and leading Indiana to a 6-0 lead Later in the third quarter, a poor with his 64 yard toehdown pass. snap from center· enabled Indiana The extra-point was good and IU to block an Irish punt. The 
. ­

*ObServer 
..• sports 
ND breaks into top twenty 
Michigan remained a runaway Pitt, a 21-7 winner over Temple, 
leader Monday in The Associ­collected two first-place votes and ated Press college football ratings, 972 points for second place, while but Pitt replaced Ohio State as the defending two-time national Okla­Wolverines' top challenger. homa received the other three 
Ohio State's 22-21 loss to Mis­first-place votes and 912 points for souri dropped the Buckeyes from third after a 24-9 triumph over second place to eighth. Florida State. Michigan, which crushed Navy 
Then came fourth-place UCLA70-14. received 56 of 61 first-place with 888 points for a 40-7 rout ofballots .and 1,208 of a possible Air Force; N. 5 Nebraska, which1,220 points from a nationwide thrashed Texas Christian 64-10panel of sports writers and broad­with 690 points; sixth-place Geor­casters. The Wolverines were gia with597 points following a 20-12second on four ballots and third on 
victory over South Carolina and one. No. 7 Maryland, a 42-28 victor over Syracuse, with 491 ooints.
Soccer club wins 

Last week, Michigan led .Ohio State 1,256-998. This time, theThe Notre Dame Soccer Club eighth-place Buckeyes totaled 426evened their season record at 3-3 points as Pitt, Oklahoma, UCLA,with two impressive wins last Nebraska, G"eorgia and Marylandweek. The vistories snapped a all moved up one position each.
2-game losing streak. 

Rounding out the Top Ten wereIn a home game on Thursday Kansas, idle last weekend, withafternoon. the Irish defeated Indi­385 points, and Alabama with 325. 
ana Teth. 3-1. Terry Finnegan The Crimson Tide trounced Van­scored two goals for Notre Dame derbilt 42-14. 

and Bill Hagerty added the third tally. 

The Second Team consists of The Irish defeated DePaul Sun­Louisiana State, Missouri, South­day in Chicago. 4-1. Jim Moeller­
ern California, North Carolina, ing singlehandedly staked ND to a Boston College, Mississippi, Texas 3-0 lead with hat trick. 
-
a Goalie Tech, Notre Dame, Florida, and Mark Klein lost his shutout early in Penn State. 
Missouri's victoryti•e second half when a hard shot over Ohio STate vaulted the Tigersfrom the right side slipped by. 
back into the Top Twenty. NotrePete Logan insured the victory. 
Dame and Florida also reappearedthough. when he knocked in the after two-week absences, the Irishrebound of a Terry Finnegan shot. 
by smashing Northwestern 48-0The B team got their first victory while the Gators downed Mississip­
of the season earlier when they beat DePaul's B squad 1-0. 
pi State 34-30. 


Hoosiers recov~red on the Notre Dover. The Unis point after wa:,. 
Moriarity completed seven of Dame eight yard line. Once again good and the Irish lead 24-10. 
twelve passes for 97 yards and one the tenacious Irish defense held The Hoosiers never posed a touchdown. 
and Indiana had to settle for a field scoring threat for the remaining goal. As the quarter ·ended, the minutes of the contest. The "Our objective going into the Irish were holding on to a 17-10 Indiana rushing game never chal­gave was to execute," Peay noted. lead. lenged the tough Irish defense. "We believed that if we could 
The Irish mounted another drive The Indiana passing game, which execute better than our opponent. in the beginning of the fourth gave the Hoosiers their only touch­we could win the football game. quarter. A reverse by halfback down in the first half. was thwarted These guys put in a lot of time 
Steve Dover highlighted the drive. in the second half by two Irish in preparation .for the J. V. games The reverse covered 31 yards from interceptions. after the varsity practices. We the Indiana 49 to the 18 yard line. Pallas notched Ill yards in 22 wanted a chance to play everyone. 
The final Irish tally came on a carries, while Knott added 51 yards and I'm pleased with the perfor­eight yard pass from Moriarity to in 10 attempts in the contest. mance that they all gave." 
Shutouts prevail in second week of lnterhall play 
by Clark Kent captain and defensive end, burst on ice. A slick field kept both 
Sports Writer through the line to nail Flanner for teams from moving the ball with 
a safety. This proved to be all they any consistency. 
The Interhall season continued needed as the score stood to the Alumni drubbed Fisher 18-0 o 
this Sunday with a full slate of end. in an error filled game. Alumni 
games in both north and south Grace put on the best offensive scored on their first possession as 
quad action.' Most teams were show of the day with a 20-0 win quarterback Bruce Martin capped 
severely hampered by the rain and over Holy Cross. It was quarter-the drive on a 15 yard option play. 
shutouts prevailed. back Matt Ratterman's day as he Numerous penalties kept offenses 
passed for two touchdown's and from going anyplace until Martin 
NORTH QUAD scored one himself. The first was a hit tight end, Dan Bradford with a 
45 yeard aerial to split end Pete pass good for 18 yards and the 
Last year's champions, Keenan McCarthy. A SO yard Ratterman to score. Halfback Pete Andreyev Hall, look like the team to beat McCarthy connection accounted for finished the scoring with a five yard again this year. Keenan knocked the second touchdown. Grace's run. Captain Mike VanAcker led off Cavanaugh by a score of 7-0 to quarterback finished off his fine Alumni's tough defense. notch their second straight win of day with a one yard sneak in the After a scoreless first half, the season. Tailback, George fourth quarter. Morrissey came alive to down Matteo tallied the score with a five Howard-St. Ed's by a 9-0 margin. yard end around. Keenan's real SOUTH QUAD Tom Bosche kicked the first field strength lied in their defense who goal of the season on a 25 yarder. kept Cavanaugh from moving the In a traditional South quad Morrissey scored again late in the ball with any consistency. rivalry Pangborn knocked off Dillon fourth quarter on a brilliant 60 yard 
In another game under the lights by a score of 12-0. Pangborn run by fullback Jack McCarthy. Zahm edged Flanner 2-0. After running back, Nick Digiovine did all Defensive tackles, Joe Levine and three quarters of scoreless football the damage. Digiovine opened the Bill McManuss led the Morrissey Zahm sustained a substantial drive scoring in the second quarter with defense. but fell just short at Flanner's two a seven yard run. He matched that The season will continue this yard line. One play later they were in the fourth quarter with a 23 yard Wednesday with games scheduled on the scoreboard as Dave Oleasz, touchdown burst that put the game at 7, 8 and 9 p.m. 









