

~=~=====On Campus Today=~· 
friday ­
12:15 
pm­

12:15 
pm-


3:30pm­
4:30pm­
4:30pm­
5:15pm­17 pm­
7 pm­
7I 9 and 11 pm-7:30pm­
8 pm­
8:15 pm ­
saturday ­8 am­
12:30 pm _ 7, 9 and 
11 pm-7:30pm­
sunday­7 pm-7:30pm _ 
8 pm-
f!~~d:.,?~:,~~~:~J
Asst. Night Editors: "The Forgotten Woman" Rosemary Mills, joseph L Bauer (No relation to Drew) and Chris Smith 
Layout Staff: Blisvur Val, "The 
Infamous" Paul Schappler and Bob Varettoni Editorial Layout: jerry Hickey (Sounds obscene) Features Layout: Martha Jane (Sounds Sweet) Hogan (Don't be deceived) Sports Layout: Leonard An­thonv Pace (Tony Incognito) and r:: red Nerbst Typists: Nancy Cueroni (Who c/e~enes a medal), Mary Mc­Cormick, Morey Blinder, Ste­phaniP Urillo Early Morning Typist: Terri Harlan Day Editor: jean Powley Copy Readers: Don Reimer, Barbara Breitenstein and Tom Byrne Ad Layout: Pat Russell, Mary o·Meara, Steve Bonomo and Mike Miller (Fearless Leader) Photographer: Jim (I'll get my 
t,:=amera) Hofman ) 
Lab fee due 
Anyone who signed up for Free University course #102, "The Art of Mixology" must pay the $1 lab fee by Friday, Dec. 17. The fee can be payed to the student govern­ment secretary on the second floor of La Fortune. 
!,. 
j. 
! 
travelogue, "alaska" by for tihen sponsored by the biology dept., galvin auditorium. 
daily advent mass, celebrated by rev. robert griffin, Iafortune ballroom. 
computer course, "pl/1", ro&m 115, computer center. 
reilly lecture, "intermolecular forces -their nature measurement and significance", by prof. a d buckingham, room 123, nieuwland science hall. 
colloquium, "the restriction of the circles actions to 
the subgroups of finite order", hambleton, room 226, computer cent by er.  prof.  ian  
mass and dinner, b~lla  shed.  
lecture,  "geology  of  the  labrador  sea  and  it's  

petroleum potential", by dr. neil j. mcmullin, american association of petroleum geologists dis­tinguished lecturere, sponsored by the earth science dept., room 101, earth science bldg. 
swim meet, western michigan at nd. 
film, "funny lady", sponsored by cinema '77I engineering auditorium, $1. 
bible study, campus crusade for christ, library lounge. 
performance, "a delicate balance", o'laughlin auditorium, smc. 
concert, notre dame chorus, sacred heart church. 
exam, graduate record examination, engineering au:litorium. 
wrestling match, indiana university and maryville college at nd, ace. 
film, "funny lady", sponsored by cinema '77, engineering auditorium. 
sea christmas party, observer staff invited, bring one bottle and one snack, 1014 east madison. 
meeting, world hunger coalition, required atten­dance, Iafortune theater. 
concert, notre dame gospel chorus, sponsored by black studies, library auditorium. 
concert, christmas choral concert, church of loretto, smc. 

ERRATUM 
Yesterday's article on Security procedures at Indiana campuses said that Notre Dame and St. Mary's have only one man on duty at night. A typist inadvertantly combined several sentences into one sentence. The paragrapt: should have read: 
"Purdue, l.U. Bloomington, Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, l.U, Indianapolis, Ball State, and Val­paraiso all use foot and vehicle patroL> at night. Saint Mary's has two cars moving constantly. Pur­due uses three. Valparaiso has one man on duty at night, who patrols in the car part of the time and spends the rest of his time in the security office." 
Tix on sale 
The new rock group Boston is set to appear in concert this Sunday, Dec. 12 at Kalamazoo's Wings Stadium. Starcastle will open the Poston concert. 
Tickets for Boston and Starcastle are available locally at the River City Review Ticket Outlets : Boogie Records, Just for the Record (100 Center), Suspended Chord (Elk­hart), Record Joint (Niles) and Fanta-C Records (Benton Harbor) 
The River City ticket agency also has tickets available for the follow­ing other opening concerts: REO Speedwagon, Dec. 11 at Morris Civic Auditoriurn; Frijid Pink and South Shore, Dec. 30 at Electric Circuit Ballroom in Elkhart; Ted Nugent, Dec. 29, at the Notre Dame ACC and Bob Seger and the Silver Bullet Band, Dec. 31 at Wing Stadium in Kalamazoo. 


Complex sale likely 
Campus View finances improve 

ments have been leased for next possiblility that we'll have to raiseby Mary Pat Tarpey rent slightly, but if they can make
semester but Buechler added that
Senior Staff Reporter 

they are going to begin an adver-money without raising the rent then we won't have to." Buet:hlerThe financial situation at Cam-tising campaign. 
stated that if there is a rent · pus View Apartments has im-Buechler did not know if rents increase it will have no affect ~n theproved greatly since the beginning would be raised for next semester. 
students who have already·
of the semester, according to Rudy "I just can't tell . There is a Buechler, present manager of tht~ ..-------""'iiii...;.;,;;,;-..-;;....l,li~:iii-------.....~~ 
apartments. 
In an earlier Observer article, was reported that the owners of Campus View default in their loans and tht~re1for4el were put into receivership. cording to Buechler, the 
complex is still in receivership. 
Buechler added, "It's planning to move out of receivership, hope· fully this month." At that time Buechler will be manager with full power. He could not release the name of the party intending to purchase the complex. 
Buechler noted many improve­ments have been made at Campus View since September. "We've had one state inspectton so far and we have some things to correct which we will do shortly. We are also finishing our indoor swimming pool." 
Previously, tenants have com­plained of the lack of insulation in the floors and its affect on heating bills. Buechler state, "We have contracted for insulation to be put in the floors." Buechler also said tha( the maintenanee service had been improved. "The general outlook of the entire project has improved,." he said. 
There is a possibility that tennis courts will be installed this summer in addition to the basketball courts. 
Buechler explained that ping-pong tables have been added to the community center. "As long as students treat things as their own, the tables will stay. Also we're thinking of putting other things into the community center," said Buechler. 
Presently, not all of the apart-


I ht> Ill"4'r\ • ·r 1, pu i>l1 ,h,·d ,\londd\ 
thruu~h I ndd\ "'"' "f't•h 1\ clt:nn" tiH• ....,lH1lflltT ...,t ...,..,HH1 t'\( t•pt r~iJrrng 
tflt> t·\dfll .UHJ \.dt ,II Ifill jJt'rfOd'-1 f ht:~ 
()b"·nf'r "publi'lwd IJI ''""''"hot tlw llll\t'"''' "' ~•Jtr•· ll<t!IH" .md 'ot \1M\ ' l "II··~·· Suh" nptum' flLl\ hP pur< h,I..,Pd t~'r $.!() pt>r \t·dr l$10pt•r 'l'flH',!t•rJ from llw Ol"t'r vt·r. flo\ C). "<otn• D<1rt1t·: lncil~ru 4(/)Sh ",t•(ond Lid..,.., pc}-,tdgt• pdrd. Notrt' [),unt•. lndldlld 4b'i'ib 
1ht· Ob,Pr\!·r " d nwrnlwr ot thP . A''illldtt>d l'rt'" -\II rt•produc t1on nghh rlrt' rl'"t'r\t•d 




Jcnah Sat.
Dec.II 
8 
STEPAN CENTER, prn .NOTRE OAIVIE $2AtDoor 
*The Observer 
p.o box q ·notre dame· indiana ·46556 

Present 
YOU DESERVE IT!!
0
-
Mrs Rerord Rcrk 
288~1178




!I $1qf! 

A Full Service RecordStore 
One Album Mishawaka Ave. S. Bend With This Ad Next to River Park theatre 1
L


----·_1·--~-....a!!"-----­

{j)toost

~COmpany 
100 Center Mishawaka 

MERRY CHRISTMAS 
I 
I From INDIANA'S MOST COMPLETE OUTFITTING STOkE 

Specialists In: Sownhill & Cross country 
Skiing, Backpacking, Canoeing, & Kayakin 
Offering Services in Cross country & 
Downhill Ski Rentals 
Location not final 



Laundry proposal approved 

by Bob Mader Executive News Editor 
The administration has agreed to the installation of a laundromat on campus for male students, accord­ing to Bro. Just Paczesny, vice-president for Student Affairs, but a location must be determined before a target date can be set. 
Paczesny and Student Body President Mike Gassman confirm­ed that the two most likely locations for the six washers and six dryers are either the ground floor of Badin Hall or the vacated laundry pickup in the _basement of Keenan. The ground floor of Badin is presently occupied by Campus Ministry, the 
travel _bureau, the barber shop, _trailor shop, and Tony's Shoe Shop. The basement of Keenan has been used by the hall this year for social 
space. •• A definite location will be _announced as soon as the electri 

dents Council for their work in the halls, the students on his commit­tee, Paczesny, ass't. vice-president for business affairs Bro. Kiernan 
Ryan, and vice-president for busi­ness affairs Thomas Mason. "It was a real Christmas present," he said. ''I-hope it signals further cooperation for next year. 
The twelve machines will cost $300 each, Ryan said. In addition, plumbing, 220 volt electrical lines, ventilation for the dryers, and a large sewer line must be installed. 
"We may have to break up several hundred feet of floor for the sewer," Ryan said. He explained that particular problems of installa­tion will not be known until a definite location is picked._ Ryan added that work will definitely begin by the end of next semester. 
Gassman said that the franchise that supplies the washers and dryers will pay for their installation and maintenance after the univer­sity has provided the water and 
·cal. plumbing and ventilation prob-· _,electrical hookups. He noted that 
Iems are worked out," said 
P~czesny. "We hope the success of 
this operation will meet the needs 
of male students.'' 
''I'm very pleased," said Stu­dent Government Special Projects Director Tom Soma. He termed the decision '·a positive step in student-administration relations." 
Gassman said the installation of the 
laundromat demonstrated that the 
administration is responsive to the 
students. 
Soma thanked the Hall Presi-

Jonah to perform Sat. at Stepan 
Jonah, a rock group from Erie, Penn., will be performing at Stepan Center at 8 pm this Saturday. The five member group is led by keyboardist: Angelo Natalie. 
Popular i11 Pennsylvania, their home state, they are beginning to tour the East and Midwest, coming to Notre Dame from a Friday night concert in Fort Wayne. Admission will be two dollars at the door. 

Dentz gains first in photo contest 
The Notre Dame Photography Club held its second annual photo contest Wednesday., Dec. 8, with two. first place awards going to photographs by Sally Dentz, junior. 
Dentz also won one of the two second-place awards, with the other going to Gary Makowski, senior. A photograph by Patrick Lennon, junior, took third place. 
Judges for the contest were Zenon Bidzinski, 1974-75 Observer photo editor, and Pat Casey, junior, assistant photographer for Bruce Harlan, official ND photographer. 
Photographs were judged on the 
basis of creativity, technique and -­
-

'-'~omen will also be able to use the facility. 
" The decision on the location for the facilitv will be made within a month, accordmg to Ryan. 
"It is inconceivable that they would consider the Camous Minis­try Branch Office since it has just been renovated and opened as the Campus Ministry Branch Office," said Fr. William Toohey, director of Campus Ministry. Toohey indi­cated that the tailor shop would most likely be moved to a new location. Fr. Richard Conyers, rec­tor of Keenan Hall agreed, and remarked that the 5000 square feet in the basement of Keenan would be too large for any laundry facility. 
Conyers pointed out that each student in Keenan has 22 square feet of living space, including his room and common areas of the hall. The situation in other dorms, such 
as Pangborn, Sorin, or Morrissey ts 

much worse, he said. Conyers Reverend Robert Griffin (left) held a dinner for those seniors recomt_Ilended t~at the HPC,_ Stu-graduating this semester. He felt they deserved recognition as they dent Ltfe Counctl, or a blue nbbon .leave the Notre Dame community. (Photo by jim Hoffman.) panel look into the matter of social ...I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!::==::==!!!!!!I!W 
space, and he pointed to the basement of Keenan as an example of unused space which could be easily converted into social space. 
Conyers reported that he wrote an extensive letter to University Executive Vice-President Fr. Edmund Joyce, outlining a plan in which the basement of Keenan could be converted into a study lounge, typing room, meeting room, and a 3000 square foot "social room." All renovation would be paid for by Keenan, which has 
:-------~--;....~-------------­
OLD FASHXONED
•aaaEr.s. 
402 Dixieway North South Bend 

Sun-Thurs 10:30-10:00 Fri & Sat 10:30-11:00 
FAST 



DRIVETHRU SERVICE 
~--coupon --~---coupon--I I 20c 0 ff I Buy 2 I I I SINGLES II Wendy's I get 1 I I cont~::prox. I FREE JI 1/4 lb. hamburger I (89• value) 1 


pendants reflect 'todafs look' ­
and are destined to beceme classics. Our 50th Year 234 -2919 
VM.!f!'z~rt~::~ Co. 
Di#JIWiu/J ""1l'tllelllS "'ftll.t7J7i 
Caannl.,f Credit ,;;,m -· 
(clJ.. ~~~f~ 
AMERICAN GEM SOCIETY 
impact and were to be related to 

. D 24 I . I ~~~~ ~~ ~ t."\: ..... ktRck ~ Ml-t1
<:tudent life at Notre Dame. 

L-expires ec. --•expires Dec. 24 •­
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 




~ MERRY CHRISTMAS ! 
~ FROM YOUR FRIENDS AT ~ 
~ THE STEREO SCENE t ~ We Have Competetive Prices On Name Brand t ~ Hi-Fi & Car Stereo Equipment. ~ : COME ON IN & SEE FOR YOURSELF 
t 

~ 3 :o:o;,~H~~;~:~~E. THE STEREO SCENE ~ 
~ SOUTH BEND, INDIANA STEREO COMPONENTS FOR YOUR CAR Be HOME ~ 
.-~~~U~.~~-~.,~~n:~.a~4B.~~~"·3.~,~~~~trti~•~:"w#~~~~~. 
'1, 
~: 

the observer Friday, December 10, 1976 
letters to a lonely God 
So hallowed and gracious is the time 
Reverend Robert Griffin 

Some say that ever 'gainst that season ago at Christmas, I was sleeping in a cheap comes New York hotel; four years ago, I woke up Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrat­on Christmas morning in a rectory on 42nd ed, street. All of these pads were very lonely This bird of dawning singeth all night places for the singing of carols, and so full long; of ghosts of Christmas past, I could have And then, they say, no spirit dare stir wished that the jolly holiday was prohibited 
abroad, bylaw. 
The nights are wholesome, then no Oh, to once again wake up as a child in planets strike, the darkness of a Christmas morning, and No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to lie in bed, shivering with the wonder of charm. whether Santa had made his visit down the So hallowed and so gracious is that time. chimney. Then, at last, getting up to see; first dressing by a night light in the warm, 
Oh. I think Sweet William had it wrong. I woolly robe and the fleece-lined slippers ncv~r disagree with Shakespeare, but this my mother had thoughtfully laid out for me time I think he really blew it. There are with warnings to use them, knowing that a more spirits stirring abroad at Christmas house can get chilly in the pre-dawn of a than bell, book. and candle can properly Maine morning; knowing that I would go deal with. Some of them, demons of down early to look under the tree. But first, cxtravagence and selfishness, seduce the kitchen had to be checked to see whe women into using credit cards, and corrupt ther Santa had eaten the pie and milk left little kids with greediness, making Christ­out as a lunch, because sometimes a boy mas a ruinous feast that is hardly gotten woke up so early, it was still only eleven over until the following September. Others o'clock on Christmas eve, and Santa hadn't masquerade as prankish bosses who turn come, and the ritual of waiting asleep was fellowship and merry-making into cheap only half done. When the plate and glass affairs called the office Christmas party. I were empty, there was always the perfect couldn't be sure office parties even existed detail added of the cigarette butt in the if it weren't for the jokes and cartoons in ashtray beside the used dishes. How lovely the sophisticated magazines. But accord­it was to think that St. Nick had bothered to ing to Playboy and The New Yorker, they smoke his Camel cigarette (the same brand do exist, and it must be the Devil who as my father's) at a place so familiar as our serves as host. The worst spirits of all are kitchen table. the ghosts of Christmas past. They kneel On into the living room, half-hoping, beside you at the Crib; they nudge your half-fearing to find the old elf stuffing elbow as you're singing carols, making stockings with oranges; but finding instead Christmas a sentimental ordeal that you only the tree and the lights and the gifts. could live without. Such a mood of reverence and wonder and 
Last year, on Christmas eve, I got sick delight that the sight of the tree, lighted with flu, and spent the next day watching and loaded with gifts, could create in a Crosby movies on television, with dinner small boy bundled up in bathrobe and served me on a tray. Two years ago, I spent fleecy slippers. One did not need to tear Christmas with some Jesuits. Three years open packages to know that their contents 
The ~good' old days 
Bob Varettoni 

This vear. while vou are safe and dry steps and porch of the Administration under ~;our regulation artificial Christmas Building by the students. It was a tradition tree. be thankful Fr. Auguste Lemonnier at that time that a Notre Dame student isn't Prefect of Discipline at Notre Dame. should walk down those steps only one 
If he were, this Saturday at 4 p.m. you time, at the graduation ceremonies. would really get your feet wet. At different times in Notre Dame's history students were forbidden to smoke,
According to Fr. Lemonnier's 1863 swear, drink, or carry money in theirregulations. during winter all students pockets. It used to be that whatever moneymust wash their feet on Saturdays at 4 p.m. 
parents chose to allow their sons to use wasDuring summer this regulation was useless kept b~· the administration's treasurer. Ifsince another rule required students to you needed money. every Wednesdaybathe. in common. twice a week in St. 
morning you had to wait in line for it.
Joseph's Lake. 

Recently. the administration has permit­To make sure you were clean. at 8 a.m. 
ted freshmen to keep cars on campus. Less Sunda~· morning you would be inspected. If than ten years ago, no student could keep a you passed inspection and kept up your car. Seniors living on campus were notgrades. the first Wednesday of the foil wing allowed to own cars until late in the 1968month the faculty would award you a spring semester, when the new ACC added"Certificate of Good Conduct." Then more parking space.
mavbe vou could sit at the "Table of One part of the 1958 Student ManuelHo~or" -in the dining hall, "conspicious to defines an "out-of-bounds" area forthe eyes of visitors." 
students. In the southwest section of South 
In the 1840's things were even worse. Bend, students could only enter Alby's, the Fr. Arthur Hope, 1930 faculty member, in Prairie Steak House, and Irving's Dining his book Notre Dame· One Hundred Years Room. write~ that students then were permitted to Fr. Charles McCarragher, assistant pas­
bathe only once a week and to shave only tor of Sacred Heart Church, said the 
twice a week. Hope also mentions an 1844 out-of-bounds area was set up in the 
administration directive which strictly pro­interests of the student. "We felt then that 
hibits students from blowing their noses there was a certain amount of gambling
with their hands. and prostitution in the area." he remem­
In the 1800s, while you were sitting bers. 
around your wooden Christmas tree, you'd In 1958 you couldn't even forget about 
probably be waiting to hear from your exams at an off-campus Christmas party. 
parents. If they did not send written The manuel reads. "The holding of mixed 
permission. the administration would not parties or the entertaining of mixed groups 
allow you to go home. in the residence of off-campus students is 
Also. students were required to write to strictly forbidden." 
their parents at least once a month. Before To this last ruletherewas one exception.
the letters were mailed they had to be "Off-campus students," the manuel 
con­corrected by the Secretary of the Faculty. tinues, "are never allowed to entertain 
In September of 1919 a new regulation women visitors, except their mothers, in was passed to prevent the use of the front their rooms." 
*Observer · 
were wonderful. For half an hour, or an would look out of my bedroom window at hour, or perhaps a lifetime, the boy could the Star of Bethlehem hanging on the wait, adoring beauty, until his sister came, tower of a distant church, and I would feel when, together, they would open gifts. lonesome and lost because Christmas was Until she came, watching and admiring over until a far-away next time. was as much delight as he needed to have. Of such Christmases as childhood knew, When the sister finally did hustle down, only the ghosts still survive, though there the two of them would divide the packages must be records somewhere of Barrymore with almost wordless efficiency into five wheezing as Ebeneezer Scrooge, and of separate heaps that overflowed on one Ernestine Schumann-Heink singing of another. Then the brother and sister would "Stille Nacht," but a record is not a ghost wake the parents, and their brother, who, at all. As you grow older, you spend all being older, would never come until your life, looking again for the perfect noonday, unless shaken out of slumber, Christmas. You search for in in the homes which was a habit of sluggishness that of friends; you look for it in the face of annually shocked the children. The family, children. But all you ever find are the together, would explore the kingdom of the ghosts of a time of innocence ''so hallowed Christmas tree village. and so gracious," it will never come again 
Of course during the day, relatives until you can be a boy, bundled up in robe would come bringing more gifts that Santa and bunny slippers, waiting for his sister had either thoughtfully, or carelessly, left before a Christmas tree just visited by at other houses; all of the gifts were a Santa. delight except for junk like underwear and So in New York on December 25th, in a stockings, which were the gift of a practical rectory, or with the Jesuits, or in a cheap aunt. and had never seen the North Pole at hotel. I think of empty dishes on a kitchen all. After the Christmas turkey with plum table beside a half-smoked Camel. crushed pudding and Indian pudding, and mince into an ashtray, which had most certainly pie and squash pie, and jello with fruit in it been left there by St. Nicholas. What I (only at Thanksgiving and Christmas, did chiefly need is not the lost myth of reindeer the jello come with fruit in it, thus prancing on the roof of the world, but the redeeming both fruit and jello into a higher gracious presence of a father thoughtful composite excellence than either of them enough to furnish the evidence that made ever enjoyed separately), we turned on the Christmas seem true to his children. It was radio and listened to Lionel Barrymore his love, and that of a mother who robed a reading Dickens' story of Ebeneezer lad in woolly warmth and slippered him in Scrooge, and we turned on the Victrola and fleece--and not, as Shakespeare claims. the heard Madame Ernestine Schumann­season of the Saviour's birth--that protect­Heink singing "Silent Night" in German. ed the child from the fairies' tricks and the No one in the family, and no one who witches' charms' and from all the harms to visited us at Christmas, knew a syllable of life. German; but it was always, it seemed, part Another English poet, John Masefield, of the Christmas drowsiness (resulting has written: from too much food and an early vigil And he who gives a child a treat before the evergreen) to listen to Madame Makes joy-bells ring in Heaven's street, Schumann-Heink on a record, singing But he who gives a child a home "Silent Night" in German. Builds palaces in Kingdom come, 
Finally, it was time to go to bed. And she who gives a baby birth Tomorrow, life would be almost back to Brings Saviour Christ again to earth. normal except for the splendor of the Merry Christmas from Darby O'Gill and spruce tree in the parlor, the turkey me. Remember: we never said we didn't sandwiches (and sometimes, turkey soup), love you. If you are in Manhattan, we will and the left-over jello. Next week, the be at St. Joseph's in-the-Village, 371 Sixth Christmas stockings and underwear would Avenue (also called, for the benefit of start to be wv 11 to school; there was tourists, Avenue of the Americas). Tele­nothing more difficult in childhood than phone: 212-741-1274. At least. I will be in breaking in new winter underwear. I would Manhattan. Darby will be with relatives in think sadly of Santa Claus travelli9ng with Jersey. experiencing the perfect Christ­Donner and Blitzen back to the Pole. I mas. 

Entertainment This Week 
ON THE TUBE 22): Unless you have an early exam on Wednesday, this 1939 classic starring Basil 
Saturday. December 11 Rathbone as Bruce
Holmes and Nigel as Notre Dame Basketball (4:00 pm, Channel 
Watson is well worth staying up for. 
16): The undefeated Irish meet the 
fourth-ranked Bruins of UCLA at Pauley 
Wednesday, December 15 Pavillion. Although the season is stiii The Getaway (9:00 pm, 22): ·Steve young, this will be an important game with 
McQueen and Ali McGraw spend most of respect to the Irish's quest for an NCAA the film trying to escape both the law and bid. 
the partners they cheated after a heist. Miracle on 34th Street (8:00 pm, 34): Guaranteed to put you in the Christmas 
ON THE SCREEN 
spirit, this 1947 movie concerns a kindly 
old gent named Kris Kringle who goes Mall Threater: Pipe Dreams (6:15, 7:45, about Gotham insisting he is Santa Claus. 9:20, $3.00) 
The Marcus-Nelson Murders (11:00 pm, Boiler House 1: Godfather Part 2 (8:00,
16): The pilot for TV's Kojak series is a $2.50)
gripping account of a true murder case in Boiler House 2: From Noon Till Three 
Manhattan. The teleplay won an Emmy for (7:00, 9:30, $2.50)
writer Abby Mann. 
Colfax: The Man With the Golden Gun Sunday, December 12 (9:00) and Gator (7:00, $1.00) NFL Football (4:00 pm, 22): Dallas and River Park: Carrie (6:30, 8:10, 9:45, $3.00) Washington square off in a game that the State: Car Wash (7:30, 9:30, $3.00) Redskins must win to gain the wildcard Town & Country 1: The Dove (call theater) berth in the NFC playoffs. Town & Country 2: Marathon Man (7:00, The Seven-Ups (9:00 pm, 28): Roy 9:30, $3.00) Scheider and Tony LoBianco star in the Forum 1: The Front (7:30, 9:30, $3.00) story of a crafty team of cops who handle Forum 2: Alice in Wonderland (X) (6:45, the criminals who, if caught, will be 8:15, 9:50, $3.00) sentenced to terms of seven years or more. Scottsdale: Two-Minute Warning (7:00, (Seven and up, get it?) Director Phillip 9:30, $3.00) D' Antoni did with this film what he did with The French Connection: took a true ON CAMPUS story concerning Manhattan cops, shot it on location, and made an excellent film Funny Lady (Fri. & Sat., 7,9,11, $1.00, from it. Engineering Auditorium). Barbra Strei­
sand and James Caan star as Fanny Brice Monday, December 13 and Billy Rose in this sequel to Funny Girl. 
Bob Hope's Christmas Show (8:30pm, 16): It's a little more elaborate than its 
John Wayne, Neil Sedaka, Kate Jackson, ;:m~decessor, but not quite as good. Lola Falana and more help Hope celebrate Nevertheless, it's still an entertaining the Yule. musical in its own right. 
Basketball (Tuesday, 8:00 pm, ACC): The
Features Tuesday, December 14 Irish meet last year's National Champs, the 
The Hound of the Baskervilles (12:30 am, Indiana Hoosiers, in their annual tilt. 


Friday, December 10, 1976 the observer 
5 


• 

Magnificent Meals in Michiana Burger Joints 
b~ Tim OtReileu 
It is close, cheap, and edible food, even if tasteless; mystery meat, though, has a way of bringing the savory qualities out of such things as snow tires, upholstery, or bad hamburgers. When it comes time for the quick getaway from dining hall food, thebrightlights of N. 31 beckon the hungry with an irresistable flash of neon. Why get dressed up or pay a lot of money when you can find a meal that at least won't fight back once it is in the digestive track? Despite the fact that the fast-food stands are mostly part of big chains producing factory food, differences in quality and flavor can be discerned. Granted, the disparities may seem small, but are nonetheless important. With this in mind, 
Best Albums by Gregg Bangs 
A record reviewer I read once said in hi~ "best of" picks, "If nothing spectacularly new and dynamic comes out, look to the veterans to turn out the best albums. They may not be the most original, but they'll be the most solid." This appears to be the case this year. All five of my picks have made a minimum of three albums and all share one particular strong point-they are well-produced. A producer nowadays is as important to a musician as a business agent is to a pro athlete. 
Steely Dan, The Royal Scam--Steely Dan is not really a group in the traditional sense. Every so often songwriters Walter Becker and Donald Fagan team up with guitarist Denny Dias, producer Gary Katz, engineer Roger Nichols and quite a few guest artists to produce a slick, original recording that always has lyrics that border on the abstract. The Royal Scam. a look a modern society, is, at times. lyrically funny, cynical. depressing and realistic. Musical­ly. it's always superb. Best album of the year. 
Jackson Browne, The Pretender--Of the Los Angeles based country-rockers, Browne is the best. The Pn.tender picks up in his life where Late for the Sky left off. Browne has the unique ability to make a personal reflection apply to anybody. He is aided on the album by the superb musicianship of David Lindley. 
Genesis, Trick of the Tail--This group was expected to fall apart after composer-lead singer Peter Gabriel left the group. However. the group all shared in the songwriting, Phil Collins took over the vocals and the group turned out a remarkably polished record. Musically, it is up to prior achievements and the tone of the album is lighter than it would've been with Gabriel. 
Billy Joel, Turnstiles--After Piano Man, not much was heard on the Top 40 airwaves about Billy Joel. What happened? He returned home to Long Island, New York to write and produce his best effort yet. "James" is a haunting confessional told in ballad form and the bluesy "New York State of Mind" is a classic. Joel would make an excellent Stepan Center concert. This record would make an excellent addition to a collection. 
Steve Miller, Fly Like An Eagle--Miller always seems to pop up every three years with a fine album. Many of the songs have been overplayed on the radio, but the fact remains they are good. Miller shows a number of styles within the album--all of them good. 
Concert of the Year at Notre Dame--Bruce Springsteen came into Notre Dame and played an incredibly inspired, yet tight set. His rockers had the crowd on its feet, his ballads touched all. The versatile perform­er met an appreciative audience and put out. Great show. 
Concert of the Year, On the Road--Living­ston Taylor has to live with being James 'Jaylor's younger brother. Luckily he has the Observer cruised the strip to compile its complete and authoritative guide to satiating the hamburger habit. 
3-stars Wendy's-For the best in hamburgers, these'"homemade" creations top the rest of what 31 has to offer. Except for chili (for which they provide plenty of free crackers), burgers and nothing but burgers grace the menu. The meat comes out with some of its natural moistness still there, an accomp­lishment in itself. In addition, it tastes reasonably good, and the menu allows the customer the choice of what goes on in the pattie. At 69 cents for a quarter pounder, the price is right, too. 
Their unique treat is the frosty (49 cents), an unusually thick shake (it must be eaten with a spoon) complemented by a full-bodied chocolate flavor. The french fries are good (35 cents), though nothing to get excited about. The decor is also the best of the bunch, making at least an effort, and a pretty good one, to affect >omething other than a sterile, plastic look. But their secret is, of course, that they do the same thing with their food. 
2-stars Burger Chef-If the decision were up to the fries (40 cents), these folks would get another star. All the strands of potato were fried to a crisp, non-greasy texture that were the best availa,ble. They also offer a salad bar and extras bar for hamburgers, amenities that no one else provides. 
The hamburger, the Super (two layers 
for 89 cents) were good as far as they went, 
which included a lot more lettuce than 
anything else. The chocolate in the shake 
did not come across as well as it did at 
Wendy's, but it was rich and creamy 
nonetheless. 

Bonnie Doon's-Don't be surprised if the 
Fonz pulls up, this place probably hasn't 
been touched in the last 20 years. Faded 
red naugahide booths, swivel-top counter 
stools, and a drive-in arcade with micro­
phones for each car almist give Bonnie's 
the look of a Hollywood set. 
The Bonnie Burger (95 cents) is a little 
greasy, the shake (60 cents) gushes 
chocolate flavor. though tends to be a bit 
thin with a lump of ice cream at the bottom, 
while the french fries (40 cents) are above 
average. Overall, the fare is fine and the 
change of pace from factory food is 
certainly refreshing. 


critics' choice 
the talent to avoid being just a "younger brother." Playing alone, he alternated between guitar, piano and banjo while playing his tunes, which include the lively "Carolina Day." His "Somewhere Over the Rainbow" can bring tears to the eyes. A fine, warm and personable performer. 
Top Albums by Scott Appleby 
What follows is my totally subjective re-hash of this year's top three albums as well as a glimpse of three of the basest collections of sound heard anywhere, at any time: The Top Three: 
Billy Joel. Turnstiles: Eight excellent songs tied Joost ly together by the compos­er's instinctive apprehension of vanous types of change and the rootlessness and impermanence resulting from such change. "Summer, Highland Falls," with its sensitive, penetrating lyricism and exquisite, flowing piano work, is most beautiful. No filler here: every cut is a pleasing contribution to this exceptionally talented composer's finest work to date. Paul Simon. Still Crazy after All These Years: Although this album was released late last year. a critical prejudice induces me to include it in this year's bag of goodies. This is Simon's first venture into composing for piano rather than acoustic guitar; as a result, his music assumes a radically different tone and posture. The album chronicles the dissolution of a marriage and displays profound insight into the condition of moral despair in the 
~xtremely sensitive artist. "Silent Eyes," che concluding number, is matchless in sheer power of its religious conviction; as such, it forms the perfect bookend to the method apathy of the title song. Andy Pratt, Resolution: A joyous,superbly produced gift from an underrated talent. Pratt fuses classical motifs into rock formats; the resulting energy more than makes up for the occasional triteness of the lyrics. Honest, welcome optimism is pre­sented in the manner of melodic and spiritual rebirth and rejuvenation. A must for stereo owners. 
Three to the Min: George Harrison, Extra Texture: The title of this self-indulgent, cloying, pretentious zero appropriately refers to eight of its nine cuts: "You" is the only number that is worth the wax it's printed on. Big dissapointment from one who knows better. Wings, At the Speed of Sound: I doubt if this former Beatie knows better. "Silly Love Songs" is the album's most profound musical statement meaning only that it has two or three phrases other than "I love you." If McCartney would just start using two-syllable words in his writing, he might come close to doing justice to his (\od­given sense of melody and chord progres­sion. Peter Frampton, Frampton Comes Alive: Sorry, untold millions, but this is an outstanding example of mediocrity pro mot­ing its way to commercial success. Nice ideas originally, but it entertains about as much diversity as Songs of the Humpback Whale. 
Fauorite Albums by Dominick Salemi 
1-Ramones, Ramones: Probably the greatest rock and roll record ever made. It's so staggeringly s imple that most people can't handle it. I'd be willing to match this band against any in the world, including Iggy and the Stooges. New Yorkers can once again hold their heads high. 2-Lou Reed, Coney Island Baby: Forget about his most recent LP, Lou always releases the most abominable palaver whenever he feels he's on the verge of mass acceptance. This record recorded earlier in the year is a joyous and heartfelt celebration of the power and majesty of rock and roll. 3-Brian Eno, Just Another Green World: This man's a genius. Someday people will realize that, and then he'll be able to get a long term record contract. Because this particular LP didn't sell, he was dropped from the label. That's too bad, because this is Eno's best album-a stunning collection of brief interweaving lyrical pieces design­ed to represent the composer in an introspective moment at the close of the day. Joyce isn't the only one that can do this sort of thing. 4-David Bowie, Station to Station: So his movie was terrible, he does a helluva acting job on this record. An aging glitter queen with pretentions to literacy shucks the make-up to get down and play some vicious but tasteful rock and roll. 5-Bob Dylan, Desire: Anybody that can transform a vicious killer like Joey Gallo into a mythological hero of Promethian proportions and then turn to •more serious concerns, like the epic struggle of Catfish Hunter to obtain free agent status, gets my vote. Although he didn't include the later song on this disc (sorry all you Yankee fans, it's on Cocker's Stingray), there is a very moving tribute from Alan Ginsberg on the liner sleeve: a sort of solipsistic prose poem that makes very little sense. But then Dylan always liked being mysterious. After all, why has he started wearing handkerchiefs on his head? 
Mouies by Dauid OtKeefe 
I didn't find it hard to choose the five best movies of 1976, but it was very difficult to select the five worst. There were so many to choose from. In any event, here they are. If you disagree, keep your amateur opinions to yourself. Seriously, everyone has his favorites. Here are mine: 
1-The Man Who Would Be King: This film had everything in the world going for it since its inception. John Huston directed it. Michael Caine and Sean Connery starred in it. The story was a tremendous romantic adventure about two amiable British rogues in India who strike upon a plan to become kings of the natives. The movie used locations beautifully. It was entertainment for its own sake, and it was brilliant. 2-0bsession: Brian de Palma burst onto the scene in '76 with not one but two major 
•

1-star Burger King-When the star of the show, the Whopper (89 cents), impresses one as only mundane, then the other items must go a long way to cover this deficiency. The onion rings (45 cents), were a little mushy, though tasted rather good. The shake (45 cents) was not memorable, though the fries (35 cents) were quite good. This place can move up in the standings once the star carries its load. 
McDonald's-The all-time king of the burger circuit seems to have slipped a bit in quality, though the buildings and interiors have improved in appearance and comfort. The vaunter Quarterpounder (65 cents) was somewhat dried out, with only one slice of pickle in the middle plus a few dabs of ketchup. The shakes (40 cents), and onion rings (45 cents) came across as mediocre, while numerous french fries (30 cents) were limp and pallid. They have a ways to go. 
no star Arby's-The beef sandwich (95 cents) was inoffensive, but it was down hill from there. The shake tasted only cold, and the fries were hopeless pre-cut jobs. Try, try again. 
motion pictures. Obsession was a beauti­fully filmed and masterfully crafted mys­tery of the highest caliber. 3-The Missouri Breaks: You tan stamp your feet and scream and holler about the fact that Maron Brando took this film by storm and made it a vehicle for his considerable and often eccentric talents. Or you can love every minute of it. I did. 4-AII The President's Men: Remember? It wasn't so long ago that Hoffman and Redford and Balsam and Robards did it up for Woodward and Bernstein. A faithful, wholly accurate, and professionally-made 
movie. 

5-The Bad News Bears: I have a weakness for Walter Matthau. He was simply great in this story of a lush who leads a motley band of little-leaguers to near-greatness. It was the funniest thing since Cher Bono and 
Onane Allman. And now, the worst: 
1-The Omen: Subtle as a sledgehammer, perversely violent, entirely lacking in creativity, and generally bad, The Omen1 was a waste of Gregory Peck and Lee Remick, a waste of money, and a waste of time. 2-Midway: I think it was a Japanese writer who said, "No one will ever go broke underestimating the mind of the American moviegoer." He was writing about Midway at the time. A senssurounding bore. 3-Lifeguard: Probably would have been number one if it had been in any way interesting and subsequently offensive. 4-Aiice in Wonderland: Ostensibly an X-rated comedy, Bill Osco's film was neither sexy nor funny. 5-The Sail Who Fell From Grace With The Sea: Yeah, and he landed on his head. 
Best of the Rests by Tim 0 tReiley 
Boar's Head: Despite its ignominious location in that dietary dead-end known as 
U.S. 31, they put on the best overall foo show in town. With a fine salad bar, 
interesting baked potatoes, good wine list, and incidentally, well-prepared steaks, nobody yet can match them. Best Salad bar: The Steak and Ale lays ou a spread that includes more than you coul eat. It's good food, too. Best Soup: Though some tough competi­tion strained my judgment, the borsch at the Hans Haus comes out ahead by a noodle. Perhaps it was because it was one· of the few things on the menu that bore any resemblance to Old World food, but it proved itself a marvelous meal-starter. Best Entree: A good cut of steak, cooked well, at the Boar's Head. What more need be said? Best Side Dish: The rice served by those Holly Girls at Holly's Landing came out ahead here. At least they tried something different in the way of side disht:s, and their combination of spice and sauce turns out very good. 
Best Dessert: Even if it didn't taste as good as it did, "Mom" Piekarski's personality would make her cheesecake the best around. However, the cheese cake is good enough to stand. on its own crust, thank you. • 
-.;:

r . ··-~ _._.__ ,-.!ll'?""M_O_,.,~-:;::.:::::E-.:]3;::·.::::J:i..,:;::::::;,~c;:·::::·;:::,:::::::=::::::::::::=:==::::::::==:::::::::J-II!!:·:::S:S~Ell!lr2!1iOJ~----[i;<>.~·"t"::;:•,:;;~;JJi'i;;~:!!!:.."l·"'iili"i::;:::;:J;;.J('33[!':•·'r;:"·';;',. .,..------------·.. 



6 the observer Friday, December 10, 1976 
~----~~~~~~~~------------------­
• ~­
E 
' 
l 
t 
~ 
•
• 
, 
~ l ~ 
l 
~ 
l I 
' I • • Indiana congressmen 


I I protest Dunes 
l 
WASHINGTON [AP] -Two Indiana congressmen took issue yesterday 
I 
with an Illinois Democrat's letter urging President-elect Carter to have a member of his Cahinet intercede in construction of a 630,000-kilowatt nuclear power plant near the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore. 
''The independence of the regu­latory process should not be a­bridged and citizens of the affected state, Indiana, must not be penal­ized by actions of individuals whom they have not elected to represent them" Se. Birch Bayh and Rep. Floyd J. Fithian said in a joint statement. 
Meanwhile, the chief executive officer of Northern Indiana Public Service Co., which is building the plant, vowed to fight any further attempts to halt construction. 
The Nuclear Regualtory Com­mission (NRC) licensed the pro­posed Bailly nuclear generating station on the Indiana shore of Lake Michigan and both the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals and the 
U.S. Supreme Court have upheld the commission's action. Prelimi­nary construction already has be­gun. 
Rep. Sidney Yates of Illinois told Carter in a letter Wednesday that the new secretary of the interior should take action on the issue. He said tha plant poses possible "irreparable damage to one of the nation's most beautiful natural 

Registration set 
Spring semester registration for students of Notre Dame and St. Mary's will take place on Tuesday, Jan. 18, 1977. 
Notre Dame upper classmen and graduate students will register all day in the ACC. Freshmen will be allotted a certain time to register in the Stepan Center. 


Specific instructions will be in­cluded with the statement of ac­
-counts issued for the spring se­mester to be mailed during the semester break. 
St. Mary's students will register in the Rectangle of LeMans base­ment from 8:30a.m. until4:30 p.m. Each student will receive instruc­tions in her mailbox upon returning in January. Day students will receive these instructions by mail. 
Classes for all students begin Wednesday, Jan. 19. 



power plant 
resources," the Indiana Dunes. 
Yates said the U.S. Department of the Interior, which runs the lakeshore, objected to the proposed plant, but Interior Secretary 
USSR greatest threat 


Kissinger makes farewell speech 
BRUSSELS BELGIUM (AP) ­Growing Soviet military power is the greatest long-term threat fac­ing the West, U.S. Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger told North Atlantic Treaty Organization -NATO -foreign ministers yester­day in his farewell message, sour­ces said. 
Kissinger, who leaves office Jan. 20, also brought assurances from President-elect Jimmy Carter that the United States will strengthen military and diplomatic ties with the alliance. 
The secretary's 45-minute speech came in a closed-door session, but officials who attended passed its substance to reporters. 
According to those officials, Kissinger stressed the importance of detente, but said accommoda­tions from Moscow, no matter how successful, are no substitute for military security. 
He urged NATO to reject a Warsaw Pact proposal that the two blocs agree by treaty not to be the first to use nuclear weapons. Kissinger said the proposal is an unacceptable restraint on Western options in the event of attack, according to U.S. delegation sour­ces. 
On a related subject, he urged NATO to reject a Warsaw Pact proposal that the alliances freeze their membership. Keeping NATO open would permit Spain to join eventually . 
Kissinger also advised the Eur­opeans against supporting "white regimes" in southern Africa, and said prospects for peace in the Middle East have improved with the decline in influence of the Palestine Liberation Organization. 

Carter's message said, 'NATO's mission and the North Atlantic alliance are no less important today than when NATO was originally established." 
instrument for enhancing our col­lective security," and promised his administration would sustain and strengthen the U.S. commitment to the alliance. 
"Over the past months," the message said, "I discussed a number of challenges that face NATO -that we maintain a common strategy against common threats, that we have efficient and strong military forces and that we consult closely as we negotiate with others on both European and global issues. 
"I have no doubt that these challenges can be met," he stated. 
Foretgn Minister Jose de Medeiros Ferreira of Portugal praised Kissinger. "It is with great regret that we watch as this eminent world diplomatic figure leaves the scene," he told the conference. 
After Kissinger spoke, British Foreign Minister Anthony Crosland praised his "courageous and audacious" initiate in trying to promote black majority rule in Rhodesia through negotations. 
stop by the Winery 
Choose one of our gift packages or let us make one up for you. 
SHOPPING AT THE 100 CENTER IS FUN NOT FRANTIC 


100 CENTER COMPLEX 
700 Lincolnway West U.S. 33, Mish., Ind. Open Mon. thru Sat. 10-9, Sundays 12-6 
OPEN FRIDAY 'til MIDNIGH-T! 
reg 1¥4 lb. box 
SHOP OUR 

38-STORES 
FOR 

SFtCIAL CHRISTMAS SAVINGS! 
. .\ / 
,J. -~-/ 

FINE QUAILITY LEATHER GOODS Custtm Coats &Jackets Justin & Boots 
....... 
titan lust
.........,. 
p..tty 

place'' 
Gallery inthe Garret 
local artists 

something for everyone oils, watercolors, drawings, graphics, pottery, sculpture 
located above Country Kitchen Antiques 

Jri.I.-TLDI:Il MEN'S STOllE 
HAGGAR Slodcs CAREER CLUB Shirls ARNOlD PALMER Co-ordinate• ROBERT BRUCE s-aten KANON Cologne SWANK Jewelry 
UY-1-:Wlft!IUI CA.s 

101 CEml J:~'l'z.e 
Oshkosh for kids stuffed animals 

& union shirts Eskimo sculpture 255-0500 
J 

Friday, December 10, 1976 
the observer 



ND pucksters take to the road for the holidays 
by Gregory Solman tough teams to face in a span of ten ECAC playoffs last season after a Jr., as always, Harvard will take to we'd certainly like to get tnem 
Sports Writer 

"I'll be .borne for Christmas, if only in my dreams." 
This line from a famous Lawren­tian Christmas song could aptly describe the Notre· Dame hockey team's situation this coming vaca­tion. While the rest of Notre Dame will probably be relaxing and ~ore than making up for four months of dining hall food, the ND leers will be embroiled in some very tough and very crucial hockey. 
The Boston College Eagles. The Harvard Crimson. The Golden Goobers of Minnesota. Three days, not to mention that a few days later, the Irish will be in Duluth to play the Bulldogs. It should all be good hockey, and none of it will be easy. 

McHugh Forum, 4,000 scream­ing Beantowners, and traditionally poor lighting will set the scene for the Irish first vacation battle against the Boston College Eagles. The Eagles, a perennial ECAC powerhouse, will return most of last year's squad with one notable exception-BC's all-time point lead­er Richie Smith, who graduated. Boston College, coached by Len Ceglarski, made it back to the two-year absence, and proceeded to bring the Beanpot Championship back to Chestnut Hill. Though the Eagles have a great hockey tradi­tion extending back to 1949 when they first won the NCAA champion­ships, the Irish have an edge in their series, at 5-4-0. 
While in the Bostontown area, the Irish will drop by to pay a visit to the Harvard Crimson the next night, and if you are of the opinion that Harvard takes its hockey any less serious than Domers take their football, you're mistaken. In the long-standing Ivy League tradition, and coached bv mentor Bill Cleary the ice with Crimson in their eyes. With their fast-skating "buzzsaw" type team, that features more individual effort than checking, the Crimson have played the Irish to a 2-2 lifetime series. 
Flying into Minnesota f?r a two-game series with the Mmne­sota Golden Gophers the 29th and 30th, the Irish will be trying to better their fourth place standings in the WCHA. 
"That's going to be a very difficult and-crucial series," warned Coach Smith, "because right now we have got Minnesota beneath us in the standings, and further beneath us by winning two games up at the St. Paul Civic Auditorium." 
The defending WCHA champ­ions feature Tom Vannelli, who last season scored 69 points with 26 goals, and Reed Larson, who had 42 points from the defenseman's spot last season. Vannelli was last year's NCAA Tournament MVP and Larson was an aii-WCHA defenseman. 
The Irish will conclude their vacation schedule with a match against the hapless Minnesota-Duluth Bulldogs on January 7-8. 
(continued on page 10.)

Morey Blinder ·:::::::::·:·=·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::=:=:::::=:=:::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.;.;:::::::::::::::::-=·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·=-:·=-:::·:·::::::::::::::::::: 
Football Picks 
=-:·:·:·:·:::::·:-=-=::::::::::::::·:·:·::::::::::::::=-:·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:The 
Irish Eye 


The first time 1 ever made a bet on a college football knows it. How he got an Orange Bowl bid is known only to ~arne was the 1972 Notre Dame-Michigan State game. cert.ain people in the South Bend area. The Big 8 strikes ~otre Dame was comfortably leading 9-0 with just a few agam. Colorado by 4. Herbst: Woody Hayes belongs in the econds remaining in the contest. Notre Dame was a 14 Turkey Bowl. Big, burly, bruisin' Bob Braga (brother to oint favorite in that game and my ten green zoombahs Gene) will reak havoc on the hapless Buckeyes. Buffaloes would have gone down the drain if Notre Dame did not by 9. Zurblis: The heyday of Hayes is coming to a close. 
score another touchdown. But as sure as the Pope is Catholic. Andy Huff blasted his way into the endzone for a 16-0. $25 victory. A h. those were the days. Pittsburgh was 1-10. the Michigan State game was on national TV. But enough reminiscence. I'll bet you can't wait to hear the best Observer sports minds Fred Herbst. Ted Robinson, Val Zurblis. and of course myself-with our Bowl Picks: BICENTENNIAL BOWL: South Carolina State vs. Norfolk State: Who's kidding whom?Is this a one-shot deal or are they going to have a bicentennial plus one bowl etc. etc. 
S.C. State 24-9. Robinson: S.C. State by 7. Herbst: S.C.S. led by All-American Marti Hogan just can't be beat. State by 10. Zurblis: Norfolk's coach really wants to win NSU by 12. INDEPENDENCE BOWL: Mc~eese St. vs. Tulsa: I'd like to know thinks up these bogus bowl games anyway? How about Tulsa 20-14. Robinson: Rutgers should be in this one but since they're not I'll go Tulsa by 
21. Herbst: Burisin' Jorge Fereeiro will destroy the feeble NcNcese State line. Tulsa by 14. Zurblis: Since this is TU's last game under their head coach. they can really taste the win. but McNeese has the home field edge -so it'll be close. TU by 6. TANGERINE BOWL: Oklahoma State ve. Brigham Young: With a few more breaks Oklahoma State would have been in the Orange Bowl and not in the hybrid-fruit bowl. But a as long as they're here, they'll win handily 29-13. Robinson: Terry Miller runs as well as anyone in the 
country. Since passing always wins I'll go Brigham Young by 3. Herbst: I've yet to see a Cougar that could handle a Cowboy. OSU by 14. Zurblis: Gifford Nielson feels that this may be the biggest game of his career. BYU is coming off a good season, but Nielson is the difference. Cowboys by 10. 
LIBERTY BOWL: Alabama vs. UCLA: Bruin loss to USC was not a fluke. a tloundermaybe. But they'll handle the Tide 31-10. holy mackeral! Robinson: In the most exciting bowl game Bear Bryant will gag on it once again, UCLA has the better talent and they'll win by 13. Herbst: It's 
bowl time, which is ~so time fur the Bear to hybernak. Bruins by 17. Zurblis: UCLA is too tough to beat and 'Bama is too weak to win. Bruins by 11. FIESTA BOWL: Wyoming vs. Oklahoma: It doesn't take too many brain cells to figure this one out. Sooners 24-6. Robinson: O.U. ducked the big boys to play the Cowboys. They won't break a sweat winning by 24. Herbst: Oklahoma is living proof that crime does pay. Sooners by 
28. Zurblis: Both teams are up and down. Wyoming fans been upset and Oklahoma upsetting Cowboys by 7. PEACH BOWL: North Carolina vs. Kentucky: The stat book shows me that N.C. lost to Maryland by less than Kentucky did. High-powered mathematics dictates that the Tar Heels will win by the difference. Robinson: Football is to the ACC as basketball is to the Big 8. 
Rutgers should be in this one, also. Kentucky by 7. Herbst: I like Atlanta. I hate Peaches. Kentucky by 2. Zurblis: Tar Heels got left behind, Wildcats by 8. 
ASTRO*BLUBONNET BOWL: Texas Tech vs. Nebraska: A loser's bowl game. Astros for the Red Raiders and Blue Bonnets for the Cornhuskers. Victory for nobody. 14-14. Robinson: Two top ten teams meet in a bowl normally reserved for losers. Tech already pulled their choke against Houston and they'll have a swinging New Year's Eve. Tech by 3. Herbst: Huskers are still smarting from losing the Orange Bowl and would like to ease the pain by thrashing Tech, but they won't do it. Raiders by 3. Zurblis: 
The farmers from the North just don't make it. Tech is ready to ride. Red Raiders by 10. COTTON BOWL: Maryland vs. Houston: I'm having a tough time with this one but the Cougars at least have played a respectable schedule. In light of that startling bit 
of information. Houston 24-14. Robinson: Like I said before ACC football stinks, and Houston is the most 
underrated team in the country. But Maryland can smell a shot at the top. My upset of the Bowls, Maryland by 10. Herbst: The ACC still thinks that footballs are round, Houston knows better. Lefty Driesell's recent injury severely hurts Maryland's ch;mces and if Davis can't hit from the outside it will be the Cougars by a couple of field goals. Zurblis.: Maryland may be undefeatd, but they won't be for long. Houston won't disappoint their fans in their first Cotton Bowl appearance. Cougars by 12. ORANGE BOWL: Colorado vs. Ohio State: Orange you
glad this isn'' V('ry important game. Ho Hum Colorado Colorado should embarrass them in Miami. Buffaloes stampede past Bucks by 17. ROSE BOWL: Michigan vs. USC: If your refer to the October 150bserver, you'll see that I picked Purdue to upset somebody during the year. It wasn't the Illini though. Michigan .will regain th.eir number one spot when they beat the TroJans. Wolvennes: 28-17. Robinson: Bo Schembechler has proved he can never win the big one. For Michigan, this is the Big One. USC will continue their Rose Bowl domination. Trojans are without a doubt a most awesome team I have ever seen physically. There's no two ways about it, SC takes the Roses and the Crown. Zurblis: USC is hoping all the way this year. Michigan will be out-psyched. Trojans by 10. SUGAR BOWL: Pittsburgh vs. Georgia: I'll admit it. I hate Pittsburgh. I want them to lose. I hope they lose. Besides I hear Rednecks are in fashion these days. Georgia, in a wide open game, 31-28. Robinson: If Tony Dorsett isn't enough to win the National Championship, then Johnny Majors' resignation will be. Since I already had my upset, I'll go with the Panthers for Number 1. Pittsburgh by 5. Herbst: Notre Dame's defense was physically strong enough to stop Tony Dorsett, but nowhere quick enough. Navy was quick enough to stop Dorsett, but not strong enough. Georgia is not only strong and quick, they're mean. TD Tony is in for a crash landing. Bulldogs by 7. Zurblis: Pitt is definitely going to win the national title-no doubt about it. Majors wants to go out a winner. Panthers by 7. SUN BOWL: Texas A&M vs. Florida: The scientific process in which these scores are produced simply amazes me. Florida sounds good. 31-17. Robinson: By the time this game is played, I'll be in the Nassau Colliseum watching the greatest living pro-basketball player, Julius Erving. That shows how much people care about this one. A&M by 1 on a 67-yard Tony Franklin field goal. Herbst: · A&M by a mommouth Franklin field goal. Zurblis: It seems like the year for Texas. Franklin should be a factor. Aggies by 5. 
GATOR BOWL: Notre Dame vs. Penn State: Notre Dame lost its sixth game under coach Dan Devine against Southern Cal, but it was the first time I didn't hear everyone screaming for the keys to the coach's office. Does this mean he's had his Notre Dame bar mitzvah? Irish: 21-3. Robinson: Let's face it. Notre Dame should blow Penn State off the field. The Nittany Lion offense looks as if it has stolen plays from Tampa Bay, but the famous Joe Paterno will find some way to keep it close. Rick Slager will be filling the Jacksonville air with footballs. Irish by 12. Herbst: What is a Gator Bowl? I guess I'm going to find out. Dan Devine claims that his most enjoyable experience as a head coach ever was at the 1968 Gator Bowl. I hope this year's game proves enjoyable. because a good time is the absolute best Notre Dame can hope to get. The winner of this game finishes in the Top 20; the loser falls out. This Bowl features more losses (seven) than any other Bowl. For what it's worth, and I don't think that's very much, Notre Dame by 7. Zurblis: Even though both teams are coming off losses, Notre Dame hasn't been to a bowl in two years and really wants this one. As most ND games, this should be a thriller. If the Irish can move the ball in the first half, they should beat the Lions. Irish by 7. 
ABSURD BOWL: TCU VS. Northwestern to be played at the beautiful Igloo Stadium in Nome, Alaska. If this were a re.al game, Northwest~rn might even be favored. They'd st1ll lose. Parenthetically did you know that NU quarterback, Randy Dean was on the 1976 U.S. Olympic handball team. And how did they do? Robinson: TCU to up 
Jim Shofner's career winning percentage to .088 (3-31) in his final game as head coach. Randy Dean will try his best to put points on the board for NU, but the chilling arctic air will prevent an aeriel assault. TCU by 31. Herbst: These two teams are so tough that they turned down chances to play in the Sugar, Orange and Cotton Bowls just so they could face the elements. You won't find these bitter rivals rubbing noses in the snow. Both teams will be high and neither has a definite advantage. The result: a scoreless deadlock. Zurblis: TCU may be powerful, but Randy Dean is a great quarterback and he's on a great team. John Pont can really taste the win, since he's almost starved. The Wildcats will have added incentive knowing that Pat Kinny will be playing defensive end next year. Wildcats by 14. in a row. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

Pigskins Prophets -the experts pick 
I E-t 

~ B 
~ ~ ~ ?; ~ 
flr !;~ ~r &r or ~{; fi~ 

~0 ~0 ~0 ~0 E-tC
i~ ::J~ ~~ ~~ ~~ s~ 
Ray O'Brien S.C.S. Tulsa o.s.u. UCLA Okla. Ken. Neb. Hstn. 
(Sports Writer) by 7 by 10 by 13 by 10 by 17 by 3 by 3 by 3 
Paul Stevenson S.C.S. Tulsa O.S.U. UCLA Okla. Ken. Tech Hstn. 
(Sports Writer) by 7 by10 by 13 by 7 by 3 by 10 by 6 by 3 
Monte Towle Norfolk Tulsa O.S.U. UCLA Okla. Ken. Neb. Hstn. 
(WSND Sports) by 7 by 10 by 14 by 10 by 17 by 20 by 7 by 3 
Tom Desmond Norfolk Tulsa O.S.U. UCLA Wy. Ken. Tech Hstn. by 4 by 9 by 7 by 24 by 3 by 11 by 6 by 18
(ND Sports Info) Tony Pace S.C.S. Tulsa O.S.U. UCLA Okla. N.C. Neb. Hstn. 
(Sports Columnist) by 14 by 3 by 14 by 7 by 21 by 6 by 3 by 14 
Tim Bourret S.C.S. Tulsa O.S.U. UCLA Okla. Ken. Tech Hstn. by 4 by 6 by 18 by 6 by 27 by 4 by 2 by 31 
(ND Sports Info) Gregg Bangs s c s Tulsa O.S.U. UCLA Okla. N.C. N b H 
· " · e · stn. (Executive Editor) by 13 by 7 by 14 by 10 by 17 by 7 by 8 by 14 
Tom Walrath S.C.S. Tulsa O.S.U. UCLA Okla. N.C. Tech Md. by 10 by 7 by 20 by 9 by 24 by 7 by 3 by 21(Ad Dept.) 
s.c.s. Tulsa O.S.U. UCLA Okla. N.C. Tech Md.g~t ~;!':\ by 5 by 9 by 11 by 3 by 20 by 6 by 1 by 2 
Mi(T:: ~~~nia Kid' ~y.Ci~· !yul:a ~y.S?U. ~YC~A ~ykl~. ~e~. TbeclhO bMd3. 1 Y Y Y Tul 
CONSENSUS S.C.S. sa O.S.U. UCLA Okla. Ken. Tech Hstn. 
~0 
~~ 
O.S.U. by 9 
O.S.U. by 3 
O.S.U. by 10 
O.S.U. by 10 
Col. by 3 
O.S.U. by 5 
Col -
by 3 
r., {; ~ {; {; ~ {; ~{; 
~o "<!;'o zo ~o ~o
0~ &~ {;;)'~ "(~ ta~ 

~ r'.) r'.) ~ "<!;' 
Mich. Pitt. A&M ND Spina by by 3 by 14 by 3 by 13 forfeit 
Mich. Geo. Fla. ND NU by 14 by 6 by 6 by 17 by 7 
USC Geo. Fla. ND Vermont by 7 by 6 by 13 by 14 by 60 
USC Geo. Fla. ND Frogs by by 17 by 13 by 7 by 16 a wart 
Mich. Geo. A&M ND -2 tie by14by7 by17by10 
USC Geo. A&M ND TCU by 26 by 1 by 16 by 13 by 7 
USC Pitt. A&M ND tie 
by 1 0 by 9 by 3 by 14 

O.S.U. Mich. Geo. A&M ND tie 
by 3  by 14 by 17 by 20 by 17  
Col.  Mich. Pitt.  Fla.  ND  NU  
by 7  by 10 by 8  by 4  by 12 by 56  

bO.S1.4U. bMic1h4. ~e~. bA&6M bND14 bNU21 Y Y Y Y Y Y 
O.S.U. Mich. Geo. A&M ND ? 
10

Woody Hayes -------•!8 2 l-.....-110".,;, 0l:.....l!.ill0;.·0 4lw.!7,;.·,;;;;3l,_l.i[7.;;-3ill.]-[l.ii6111·4ill.)-.;,!
17-13. Robinson: Ohio State stinks and ;;.-.. ,. 0.,1..:1;,;,ii.-.;; iliil~!9;.·1;;:l_iiil6;.·4iiiil...li!6-.--. 7.;·3~]..,:;.;!6;.-4;;:,]...ll:[l,_O-Iii0•]___ 
Notre Dame has no break in sight 
by Paul Stevenson Sports Writer 

The coming week means exams for Notre Dame students. For the Irish basketball team. those exams will only be a part of a series of tests which they will undertake starting Saturday and continuing throughout the holidays. 
Tomorrow the Irish cagers will be in Pauley Pavilion to tangle with the UCLA Bruins. 
"The Bruins ha\·e a wealth of talent as usual." Irish mentor Digger Phelps noted. "They have been starting three sophomores, and they have been getting use to BartO\\ 's svstem. Thev must be con~idcred . one of th~ top five team~ in the country." 
UCLA returns nine lettermen from la~t year's Pacific eight Conference and NCAA West Reg­ional championship squad. Senior fomard Marques Johnson is the onl_v returning full-time starter. Junior guard Raymond Townsend ~tarted 22 of the last 23 games. '' hile sophomore center-forward David Greenwood got the starting nod in the last I5 games. 
.Johnson, the UCLA team cap­tain. was the second leading scorer for the Bruins last season with a 
17.3 average. He also lead the team in rebounds. averaging 9.4 caroms per game. In his career at UCLA. Johnson has shot 55.8 percent from tile floor. He led the team last year with a 54 percent field goal standing and hit 75.7 percent of his free throws. 
The Bruins are currently rankeo third in the country and will bless Bartow with a lot of talent in his second year in Los Angeles. The game will be televised on WNDU (Channel\6) at 4 p.m. South Bend time. 
After a tough battle with the Bruins the Irish return home immediatelv to take on Indiana. the defending ·NCAA champions. on Tuesday night. 
"Indiana has a lot of inexperi­enced players with the exception of Benson." Phelps remarked. "But it doesn't matter who is coming back in this traditional battle. A win over us would give them a lot of confidence. and a lift emotionally as they prepare for their conference schedule.·· 
The Hoosiers have already suf­fered to earlv season losses this year. Indiana· was first downed by Toledo 59-57 and the following week were handed another thrash­ing by Kentucky 66-57. 
"We have two crucial games within a four day period this week against two highly regarded teams.·· Phelps commented. ··At the beginning of the season I felt we had ten games this season that ,,·auld be power games. We were able to win the first power game at Man·land. UCLA and Indiana are two ·of the remaining nine on the <.,chedule... 
On Dt:'L'. 21 the Irish host the Univcrsit\· of Vermont. This battle will mark-the first meeting between Notre Dame and the Catamounts. 
Vermont will be lead by their tri-captians Ron Gottschalk: a 6-7 center. backup center Charlie Trap-
leers on the road 

(continued from page 9.) Duluth holds down the last position in the WCHA standings, but has heen known to play above their record. Whatever the case, the Irish 
ani and forward Warren Prehmus, the team's leading scorer last season with 17 p.p.g. 
After the Vermont tilt, the Irish head to Louisville to take on the Wildcats from Kentucky. Kentucky is last year's NIT champion and returns eight lettermen to this year's squad including four star­ters. The Wildcats compiled ten straight wins last season to finish 20-10. The game will be played in the new 23,000 seat Rupp Arena which will be a boost to the Kentucky cagers. 
Jack Givens, anAil-Americanand All-SEC 6-4 junior forward who averaged 20.1 points per game last year leads the Wildcat attack. Given is joined by the 6-10 junior center Mike Philips who averaged 
15.6 points and 9.8 rebounds per contests last season. 
On Jan. 3 the Fighting Irish tackle Princeton. Billy Omelt­chenko, Rich Rizzuto imd Doug Snyder will be leading the Tigers in the battle. But note the matchup of Billy Paterno against Princeton sophomore Bob Roma. The duo played together on two state championship teams at Christian Brothers Academy in Lincroft, New Jersey. Roma led the frosh squad last year with 18.5 points and 9.8 rebounds per game. Due to Ivy League regulations freshman are not allowed to play on the varsity level. Thus, this will be the first meeting between the two Jersey­ites. 
From Princeton, it's on to Phila­delphia and a clash with Villanova. Last years Wildcats finished with a 16-11 mark and every year seems to bring improvement to the team. Last year the Wildcats held oppon­ents to 72 points a game, compared to 86 the year before. 
Junior swingman Keith Herron. who averaged 16 p.p.g. will take command of the Villanova team. He will be joined by senior center­forward John Olive, guard Joe Rogers and forward Larry Herron. Keith's brother. The big man for Villanova will be 6-11 Ron Cowan. 
The Irish end their long holiday schedule against the Marquette Warriors in Milwaukee. Not much has to be said about Head Coach AI McGuire and his crew. His teams 

Notre Dame to face State 
(continued from page 11.) 

The receiving corps is led by the last senior in the offensive line-up split end Rich Mauti. At tight end is junior Mickey Shuler. Andress' old favorite target, highly touted Jim Cefalo, has had to sit out much 
of the season due to injuries. Penn State's running attack is spearheaded by Steve Geise and Bob Torrey who man the halfback and fullback spots respectively. When these two backs have been stopped the Nittany Lion offense has not been able to adjust. Senior co-captains Kurt Aller­man and Ron Crosby are the only 
l~;n st;;}~:~i~~ni~~~t.in ~~:s::tt:~~ 
junior Bill Banks are responsible 
for shutting down the run outside
from the end positions. Tackles 
A All-mericans for their perfor­mances this year. The specialty teams should be an important factor in this confronta­tion. The Irish may have an edge here as Dave Reeve, the Notre Dame all-time field goal leader, has 
extra experience over freshman Tony Capozzoli, the Nittany Lion placekicker. The key match-up of the day may be the Devine-Paterna battle. In a closely contested bowl game it has often come down to the final adjustments of either team's coach that proves to be the deciding factor. The game will be televised 
~~:Be with kickoff set for 9 p.m. 
have averaged more than 25 wins per season over the last nine years. 
" Our arsenal is defense," Me, Guire stated. "We win by clawing and scratching." 
Marquette wins on defense. However, with the losses of Lloyd Walton and Earl Tatum, the men that made the Warrior defense, a lot of quickness has been lost. too. 
Team captain and two time All-American Bo Ellis, a 6-9 senior forward will carry the bulk of the Warrior threat. Ellis has started 88 consecutive games for Marquette and was the team's second leading scorer (12.2) and rebounder 8.5 as 
averaged 16.3 p.p.g. and 10.5 rebounds. Last season Ellis aver­aged 12 points each contest and led the team in rebounds with 9.3. 
In the backcourt, Butch Lee. a 
6-1 junior guard and two year 
starter. will return. Lee averaged 
13.7 p.p.g. last season, qualifying him as the second leading scorer. 
At center will be 6-10 Jerome Whitehead, McGuires "aircraft carrier." Bernard Toone replaces Tatum at forward. The 6-9 sopho­more shot 57 pecent from the floor and 85 percent from the free throw line as a freshman. tops in both categories for Marquette last sea­

j:~;daH~srb;~h~m~ft::~:~::::::~?:r:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 

Banana Oil 
::::~GWi:t:6~t6~~:~:itt~ti;;~::~:~:~~::~~:i~:::~:~#~:~il}:~i:~:~/::(:s:6:~n'?!!!!w!! 
familiar.) At the request of certain members of the Observer Editorial Board I am submitting this clarification of my column on the ND-SMC basketball game that was played last Saturday. This is a clarification, not an apology or retraction of my views. 
The game that followed the ND-Valpo men's game was. to say the very least. a poorly played contest. True, the teams scored more points than they had ever scored before. True, it was their first game. True, they were probably nervous being on the main floor of the ACC. 
But that matters little. The overwhelming fact of the matter remains that both teams played poorly. 
Not only did the teams play poorly, but everything about the game was less than adequate. The officials were in constant confusion, often contradicting each other; tl>eir were no official stats available after contest and the coaches provided more entertainment than the game itself. 
Granted. 1was wrong in the tone of my column. 1could have and should have presented my views in a milder form. The fact that 1was so harsh in the piece was a mistake, and for that and only that 1apologize. Still, what 1said in the column was my opinion. That remains unchanged and 1stand 
bv it. ·The women's basketball teams of both Notre Dame and St. Mary's are anxious to gain fan support. But exhibitions like last Saturday's don't gain fan support, they lose it. At the beginning of last week's game there was a sizable crowd in attendance. At the beginning of the second half more than half of the people had left. For the women to gain the support they desire, they have to present an attractive product. In my opinion, both clubs need a great deal of improvement. Teams that perform well get acclaim; teams that don't, get criticism . or worse yet. ignored. 
Eileen 0'Grady:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::;:::::::: 


Clar• .cat•·on ,
111 


~~~~y u:et~~c~~d~~~ Randy Sidler aoUff0UghS ff8ded.::::::(~~~:i{if~fi~\d~it;::::::~r~~ii~/fb\~/~:dr~:b/:~h:~:(:~~:~:~:~:~~:~(:;~::::~h:~:: 
reflection of the Paterno era. The • • • • • • • • ••• • • • ••••••••• • • • • 


~~~tk:~n::~t~~nc~~!;inwo~i~~~~~:~ Help resurrect the .:.
squad. Rockne was Notre Dame's coach in the other two wins. In 1925 Rockne's boys played to a classic 0-0 tie. • • 
Rick Slager is back from his • shoulder injury and will lead the • 






nazz

offense into battle. The Irish will • • rely on the running of AI Hunter to • • get control of the game. Hunter • • was named Honorable Mention All-American by the Associated • • 
Press. Dan Kelleher and Ted • opens • MacAfee will try and find openings • openS s t d Ne ht t • 
in Penn State's secondary. at a
a ur ay tg
~:ec:U~~~o~i~~:t~~ofc~ 0a~it~~ep~~~~ : 9:30 · 9:30 : 
tight end in ihc country. The Irish secondary is as strong • • 
leer's will get little vacationing as ever with a little extra confi-• • done. this break. In fact, the dence coming off their impressive • appearing at appearing at • hockey team will have to stay in a 
showing against USC. Ross hotel off the campus grounds until Browner is almost a unanimous • 
11 00 • everyone returns in January. They choice as the top defensive end in • 10:00 :-• will. however, be home on Christ­the country. Co-captain Willie Fry, • • mas Eve, and most of Christmas Luther Bradley and Joe Restic were • Day. 
all named as Honorable Mention • ''I'm a firm believer that a kid 
should be able to spend Christmas Gator tix on sale : Jack Kellerher Bill Carey : with his family,'' commented · 
Tickets for the Gator Bowl game • & & •Smith. 
featuring Notre D~me an~ Penn. . . •
And for the team members, who might, by that day, have twQ .big 

.;~~~ a~~h?; d;:: :t 1 ~i~~~~rn~~; : ''.... ~~n 'M~rarty. . ' . ..'. .. .Jake Schneider •
wins under their belts, it may. be a 

very: niei-ry <:hristmas irideea': ' !. ' ·. qf.the,~A~C. Tb~' ,dllca,t.r;>~a.re .pnc.ed,,'····•.••~•.••••••e •••,•••.•••.••••••••••• 
at $8 each. 
Allerman directs the action from 
· · b k · p •
his inside !me ac er spot m enn s 
4-4-3 defensive alignment. Two freshmen, Rick Donaldson and Matt Millen, are likely targets in Coach Devine's game plan. The other outside linebacker is junior J D' 
oe lange.
The defensive secondary is made 
up of halfbacks Bull Crummy and Neil Hutton. Junior Gary Petercus­
kie nails down the safety position.This trio has been fairly successful in swatting down aerials this 
season . · h · th" "thTh I e ns go mto Is game WI a
3-0-1 record against the Nittany Lions but these teams were no Tuesday. Dec. 7, issue of the Observer. In it I referred to my "so-called
h h 1 11 d 

boss,'' and claimed he had no right to make sue remarks in w at ca e "mine and the SMC Sports Editor's jurisdiction."
I wrote the article in the midst of a misunderstanding of which I must 
explain. In the first place I always assumed myyosition autonfmous ~nd only responsible to the editor-in-chief. As It turns out a~. 1rst responsible to the sports editor. Thus I was wrong in referring to 1m as my "so-called boss," and questioning his authority.
r b' If 

He covered the ND-SMC bask~tball game to e Iminate ~nyh 1as myse or the SMC sports editor would ave had, had we covere t e game.
I still contend his remarks were uncalled for, and he should have had a play-by-play story in first before a column. Yet it was a column. so he was completely free to make any opinion he chose. 
It still seems obvious to me that the Notre Dame women's basketball team has progressed tremendously since last year. This was proven again
last night in an away contest against Grace College. The Irish trounced
them -4 .
75 8 
W. 

LOS ANGELES (AP) _ The Atlanta Braves packaged five play­ers and an undisclosed amount of cash Thursday to acquire slugger
Jeff Burroughs from the Texas Rangers in the biggest trade com­pleted at the baseball's winter meeti'ng. Meanwhile, the on-again, off-again George Scott deal was on 
again with the announcement that the veteran first baseman had agreed to terms with the Boston Red Sox, despite recommendations 
from his agent to turn down the Sox' offer. 
-----------~----------------,..-~------.. 
Friday, December 10, 1976 the observer 1 1 

Notre Dame to face Penn State R 

by Ray O'Brien Sports Writer 
After a one year layoff, the 
Fighting Irish football team pre­pares for their sixth post season bowl appearance. Notre Dame boasts a 4-2 record in holiday performances with a two bowl 
UTi••ni•w streak. On Dec. 27th they to extend that streak 
Tony Pace 

Pace's Picks 
Well. this is the final week of the NFL regular season for 1976 and many of the playoff births have already been secured. T~is makes or many meaningless games that are often the most dtfficult to 
predict; so this week I have the assistance of Matt Ratterman. 
SATURDAY AFTERNOON Minnesota over MIAMI by 8 points-I wonder how many times we will hear the announcers say, "this game is for the pride of these players." Ratterman: Ditto . . 
Pittsburgh over HOUSTON by 35 pomts-The Otlers are the only team blocking the Steelers' playoff path. They do not stand a prayer in hell. Ratterman: Ditto SATCRDAY NIGHT Los Angeles over DETROIT by 14 points-Pete Rozelle is not choosy, 
any  T.V.  network  can  have  its  very  own game for Saturday.  
Ratterman: Ditto.  
SUNDAY AFTERNOON  

CHICAGO over Denver 10 points-The Bears cap a most successful ~eason with a victory. Ratterman: Craig Penrose is the Broncos QB of the future and Denver is mv home area team. Broncs by 6. 
NEW YORK JETS over Cinci~nati by 3 points-I'm hallucinating. right? Wrong. ty this time on Sunday, the Bengals playoff hopes will he dead. Joe Willie should go out in a blaze of glory. Ratterman: 
Ditto. St. Louis over NEW JERSEY GIANTS by 7 points-The Giants are linally getting things together, too bad it's so late in the season. The Cards must win this game and then pray for a Washington loss. 
Ratterman: Ditto. 

PHILADELPHIA over Seattle by 14 points-The Seahawks defense has given up 402 points; at least they'll lead the league in something. Dick Vermeil will get to watch the Rose Bowl on the tube this year. Ratterman: This is getting Ridiculous, ditto. New England overTAMPABAY by 28 points-John McKay shoots for a perfect season. while the Patriots tune up for the playoffs. Ratterman: Ditto. San Diego over OAKLAND by 3 points-This pick is for Californian Tim O'Reiley. The Raiders could be flat after Monday night's win and O'Reiley's Chargers might upset them. Ratterman: Ditto. Green Bay to tie ATLANTA-Tickets for this game are about as valuable as Jimmy Carter's autograph was four years ago. Ratterman: Who cares about the score? The crowd size is a more important prediction. There should be a total viewing audience of about 101 people, and that includes the relatives of the players, the coaches and the owners. BALTIMORE over Buffalo by 17 points-The Juice finishes another wasted season in the winter wonderland of upstate New York. The Colts are polishing their edges for playoffs. Ratterman:Ditto. Cleveland over KANSAS CITY by 13-The Browns complete a very successful season. In K.C., the Lenny Dawson look alike contest continues in the Chief offense. Ratterman: Ditto. San Fancisco over NEW ORLEANS by 3 points-The easiest way to characterize this game would be with a yawn. Ratterman: zzzzzzz. DALLAS over Washington by 3 points-This game should determine the NFC wildcard team. The Cowboy cheerleaders must be the best in professional football. Ratterman: The Cowboy cheerleaders are the best in any sport. 
Finally. since this is the last issue of the semester and we don't return until after the Super Bowl, I'll say right now that there will be no stopping the Pittsburgh Steelers. They should win their third Super Bowl. The Minnesota Vikings will be the bridesmaids once again as they represent the NFC. Ratterman: You're right with the Steelers. but 'II be the Dallas Cowboys. 
against the Nittany Lions of Penn State. 
Penn State goes into the game with a 7-4 regular season record. Like the Irish they are a farily young team in the process of rebuilding. The Nittany Lions are coached by senior mentor Joe Paterno who is no stranger to post season extravaganzas. Paterno has had to make ustments this 


RETAIL

year with only seven seniors in the NEW!! starting lineup. CENTER 
The offense has been less than 
consistent this year. The perfor­mance of this squad has been the key to the team's success or failure. After winning their opener the Penn State offense suffered a break down as the team dropped its next three games. To compound the team's shaky performance on the field, the offense lost senior quar­terback John Andress for the season in the fourth game. Andress is a senior co-captain who was supposed to coordinate Paterno's young untested offensive unit. 
When Penn State looked like they were ready to collapse sopho­more Chuck Fusina stepped in and took control of the offense as the new signal caller. The Nittany Lions went on to win seven straight games before faltering against number one ranked Pittsburgh. 
The offense's experience is con­tained in the front line. Center Keith Dorney, a sophomore, is the only underclassmen in the offen­sive line. Penn State's front line is anchored by the senior co-captains, Brad Benson and George Reihner, who man the tackle positions. Two more seniors, Ron Argenta and Dave Shukri fill out the front five. 



''HAIR IT IS'' 
STYLING & HAIR CARE CENTER ~'· FOR A .. 
~· GUYS 'N GALS "~ 
~~ $2.00 off for complete style ~ ~with this ad!! Expires After Christmas.·~~ 

WE'RE CLOSE TO CAMPUS!! ''HAIR IT IS'' I 
IS LOCATED AT: ­U·S· 31 NORTH (ROSELAND) 
ONE BLOCK NORTH OF RANDALLS INN 
_rking in rear. Call for appt. 272-5345 Hours-Mon. & Sat. 9-5 
Tues. thru Fri. 9-9 WE CARE t•~-ABOUT YOUR HAIR! 





Campus View Apartments 
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT 
2 Bedroom Vacancies Semester Leases 
$300.00 PER MONTH 
Office Open 9am -4pm Monday thru Friday 
Phone: 272-1441 

.." ... ' .~.. 

----~-----~-~---~ ---­



So why is ND in the Gator Bowl? 

by Paul Stevenson Sports Writer 

The Gator Bowl is just two weeks 
away. and the Fighting Irish are 
about to resume practice in prepar­
ation for the annual classic. But 
why is Notre Dame participating in 
this post-season bowl game? 

Both schools are guarranteed a 
minimun of $300.000 for playing in 
the contest. However, after expen­
se~. the monctarv intake will be 
minimal. Also. th.is bowl pits two 
team~ that have more combined 
lossc~ than schools in anv other 
hm1 I. ­The Irish finished 8-3. while the \iittan1· Lions ended the season 11 ith a record of 7-4. Notre Dame is ranked tifteenth in both wire sen iL'l' polls, whereas Penn State is tied for tv. enticth in the AP ranking'> and is not rated by UPI. "I look at a bowl game as a reward to the team." Irish mentor Dan Devine remarked. "The team wants to go. so I want to go. I'd do anything for this team; They're a super bunch of guys." Still. many people feel the Irish ha1·e nothing to gain from their participation in the Jacksonville affair. If Notre Dame wins. their ranking would probably not go up significantly, while if they were to lose. they would more than likely drop from the top twenty. "Notre Dame had nothing to gain when theyplayedNebraska in the Orange Bowl." Devine commented. In that 197.1 Orange Bowl Classic the Irish were humiliated 40-6 on nationwide television by the Corn­huskers. Yet. the Cornhuskers were highly rated. and if Notre Dame had won. their rating would have gone up. Regardless of what anyone thinks about the Gator Bowl. Notre Dame has accepted the bid to play 
Penn State. But how does the 
athletic department come to a 
decision on whether or not to 
accept an invitation to any bowl? 
After receiving an invitation, the Faculty Board on Athletics has a meeting and decides whether Notre Dame will accept any bid. But the team and coaches must want to play in the game, which is also an additional factor in determining whether an invitation will be accep­ted. Does the entire team vote on whether or not they'd like to represent the school in the contest? 
In 1971. Notre Dame rejected an invitation to participate in the Gator Bowl. According to Devine. after that incident Coach Ara Parseghian decided that the team would no longer receive the chance to vote. If the team received an invitation, the school would accept. 
This year. as has been the policy since 1971, with the exception of last year, no total team vote was taken. Instead, Devine asked a few players in his office to try to get a representation of the team's feel­ings about the bowl. 
Rick Slager. Willie Fry. Ross Browner, Luther Bradley, Jim Weil­er and Ken MacAfee were among those who expressed their desires to play in the Gator Bowl. 
"I didn't get enthusiastic until I saw how enthusiastic the team was about the bowl." Devine recalled. "When I knew the team wanted to go. then l was really enthusiastic about going." 
This will be Devine's first bowl game as mentor of the Fighting Irish. However, he has participated in bowl games previously and holds a 4-2 mark in post-season play. 
''I've been to a lot of bowls, but I enjoyed the Gator Bowl more than any other that I've participated in." 
Last year the Irish were suppos-

Passport Inn 
5018 UNIVERSITY BLVD. W 
JACKSONVILLE FLA322lh 1904) 731 0800 
GATOR BOW LSPECIAL $18.00 (plus tax)-Double Occ. Mail Reservations Requests with $18 Dep. as soon as possible 10 MINUTES TO GATOR BOWL 
~~]

company attractively based Mid-NYC. Offers 
intensified training in sales leading to sales 
management. No prior experience necessary. 
We will train you. Offers salary plus incen­
tives and fine company benefits for personal 
inter\'iew, send resume in confidence to: 
Circle Financial Services 
3 55 Lexington Avenue ~ New York, N.Y. 10017 
~<Q'>~~><L7><0-..A.... 
.....................................


i RUMPERSTICKER SALE! ~ 
: excellent x-mas stocking stutters : : REGULAR STICKER PRICE : 
• reduced from •
i $ • 50 to $ • 25 : 
+ REGULAR PATCH PRIC 
edly offered a bowl bid but turned So it's time to prepare for the fun experience," Devine stressed. it down to a team vote. "I ate my battle in Jacksonville. "A bowl "I feel that the team wants to play heart out last vacation knowing we game should be an education and a another game-they deserve it." 
could have gone to a bowl,'' Devine reflects. "Ed Bauer and Jim Stock came into my office and Ed said, 'Please 
Knicks get 'Big Mac'
coach, don't ever have another 
vote'." NEW YORK _ The New York 
So, this year a different way of Knieks acquired high-scoring determining whether the team center-forward Bob McAdoo and would participate was established. reserve center Tom McMillen from However. just asking a few starter the Buffalo Braves Thursday for may not reflect the entire team's center John Gianelli and a reported attitude. What if there are some $3 million. players that are against going to a The deal for the 6'10 McAdoo, bowl? the National Basketball Associa­
"! told the players that if there tion's scoring leader the last three was anyone who did not want to go seasons, climaxed several days of to the Gator Bowl did not have to on-again, off-again announcements go," Devine state. "All they had to that had the four-year veteran from do was come and talk to me. They North Carolina heading to the Knicks, then going to the Seattle 
SuperSonics, then staying with the 
Braves. 

McMillen, 23, a 6'11 second-year pro out of Maryland, is averaging 
5.1 points and 3.5 rebounds this year. 
Gianelli, 6'10, a lanky 26-year­old who was Houston's second-round draft choice from the Univer­sity of the Pacific in 1972 and was sold to the Knicks that year, was averaging 10.8 points for the Knicks this season. 
would probably do us more harm :;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-:·:-:-:-:-:::-:-:-:-:-:-:::-:::::-:···· .·.·. ·-:-:-:-:::.:::-:::::::-:-:::·:·:-:-:-:-:·:·:-:-:-:-:-:·:-:-:·:-:-:-:·:-:::::::::::::::::::· 
than good, so it would be better if they did not go." 
Well, the decision has been ~ reached and everyone seems to ~ have been given a chance to "\,~ express themselves concerning the ;. , matter. But, practices are about to "'~ \ resume. How will this affect the -II' players and their final exams? :· 
"On the fourteenth we are going :~ 

to have a wo.rkout f~r no "?ore th.an ~~PIONEER SX636 40 to 45 mtnutes. Devtne sa1d. :· "we will also practice on the 15th, :~ ReQ. $349.95 
t6th. t7th. 18th and 20th, before :: Harman Kardon HK40B S 

leaving for Jacksonville on the 21st. :~ pea ers -:-: "T.he practices will be good to:~~ Reg. $119.95each $119 95jpaz·r}
reheve the pressure from exams, :: • • :::: 
and b.~ good ror a littte hour ~~Electro Votce EV16B Speakers \ 
br~h~ scene is rapidly approach-~j Reg $165 each $165Ipair :::: ing-Dan Devi~e a.gains~ Joe Pater-:~ Koss Pro 4AA Headphones :::: no and the F1ghtmg Insh vs. the ;: R .. Nittany Lions. As Devine sees it, ;: eg $65.00 $32•50 .. 
the •'~~e.ho.oldThey re P'"'' to b"to g~ ;ADDRESS• • ~~~.~~· lffi Iy~.....~:=
one. stm1lar us, ;: • ('"I; ·. 
Devine acknowled~ed. "They'~e ~: Michi!!an & Indiana l!.l SOlJ.."< i~~~~a;:de ~~~.r.~SSIVe, and that S:: s;;~~:end : rruJ mm •...,.;:
::::=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=:=:=:=:Y§=-=-~:!:::}'~.9-r~h:-=·=-............·.·.-.·.·:·:-~.-­

FREE Wedding Pictures when you buy your rings at Royal Patrician jewelers 
~ 

~~~np (}k//ffl/1/} (/g~Ollb 
'~~~. (f­diamond engagement rings 
and matching wtdding sets are beautiful expressions of love captured in gold and pre­
:;: ;:; ;:;. ;:; ;:: 
.. 
.. 
:: 
$175.00 ·:.~.:.:::_:.:.:
k 

+ E Come in cious gems.' and ask us 
about this wonderful gift from us. just buy your trio set herr?
I 1 and you'II rtetivt a Stt of 30-5"x7" in Cq/Dr FREE 
+ pictllm by a fitw photographer! 


~Ji~ef.Q~.~~QYJ!.q~f~~~f~~~._---------------------------------------------·-··-'--~ 

Friday, December 10, 197() the observer 13 
Ali, Vonnegut on list 



Senior Class Fellow's nominees announced 
nominee must have done some-columnist; Muhammed Ali, world California; and Bill Cosby, com­After the list is finalized, there thing significant in his or her field. heavyweight championship boxer; edian. will be an election of first, second by Val Zurblls and their lifestyles and accom-Garry Trudeau, Doonesbury car-and third choices. The winner will 
One name with much student 
be notified and will be asked to
Executive Editor plishements should embody the toonist; Kurt Vonnegut, author of 
support missing from the list is 
come to Notre Dame. If he or she
"Notre Dame spirit." It was Slaughterhouse Five and other 
Farah Fawcett-Majors. "The main 
cannot make it, the next name will
The Senior Class Fellow Com-stressed that the Senior Fellow novels; Red Smith, first Pulitzer 
reason she is not on the list is 
be called and so on until someone is 
--~~~~ittee narrowed down the list ·of Award is not an honorary doc-Prize-winning sportswriter on the 
because she doesn't embody the 
available to appear h~C;.-e. Hath­
n~UJ~nations for Senior Class Fel­torate. Personality, interest, en-New York Times and N.D. grad-
Notre Dame spirit,'' explained 
away feels this is the onJ_y way to
low to2t }.~st night. One hundred thusiasm and personableness are uate; Henry Kissenger, Secretary 
Hathaway. "She doesn't embody
and thirteen--pe.vple nominated a all part of the award. of State; Beverly Sills, New York run the election. --~-------'1
what coeducation stands for at 
fellow, more than, double the The following list of nomineed Opera star; Gerald Ford, President 
Notre Dame." It was also noted 
number of last year. ---..._ does not reflect the way the of the United States; Jerry Brown, The Senior Fellow Award has
that she had not done anything
committee decided them: governor of California; Walter been a tradition at Notre Dame
significant in her field.
"We had a damn good turiiDUt of Eric Sevareid news anchorman Cronkite, news anchorman at CBS; since 1969. It is an annual award
An open forum will be held next
nominations," remarked chairn1an for CBS; Bob Woodward and Carl Jerry Lewis, comedian, producer, given to an individual who the class
semester for any senior to give
Ron Hathaway. "Seventy-two---Bernstein, Washington Post re-director, actor; John Wayne, feels has performed some worthy
reasons for adding or deleting
different names were nominated." porter-s; Woody Allen, film writer, Academy award winning actor; endeavor of social merit. The
names. Hathaway is requesting a
The list was narrowed down on producer, director, _actor, comic; Alexander Solzenitzin, controver-Fellow usually attends a weekend
statement concerning the rationale
the basis of criteria set at an open Bob Hope, comedia.n: Barbara sial Russian author; Edward of activities in the spring that
for the change and the name of the
meeting held Nov. 25. The Jordan, first black congresswoman Kennedy, Massachusetts senator; center arom1d the personality of the
person who will speak at the forum 
of Texas; Art Buchwald, satire Ronald Reagan, former governor of recipient.
on the nominee's behalf.

Senior formal planned for April 
Plans for the Senior Formal are now being finalized. The dinner­dance will be held in the Hilton Hotel in Chicago on Friday, April IS. 
The evening will begin with a 
cocktail reception at 7:00 p.m. in 
the Normandy Lounge of the 
Hilton. At 8:30p.m. dinner will be 
served in the Grand Ballroom and 
be followed by the dance. 
Transportation will be provided 
for all who need it. Plans are being 
arranged to charter one or more 
busses to Chicago at minimal cost. 
The cost of the formal package, which includes the dinner, dance and a photograph of each couple, is tenatively set at $35. This price does not include the optional cost of transportation or cocktails. 
Deposits for the bids will be 
accepted beginning in late Febru­
ary. Prices will vary according to 
the number of couples attending. 

Sing In Sunday 
The third annual Community 
Sing-in presented by Festival '77 
will take place on Sunday, Dec. 1'I 
at 4 p.m. at the Morris Civic 
Auditorium. 
The program wi.the tart with 
selections from he Messiah. The 
audience will act as the chorus. 
Separate sections will be marked in 
the threater for different voice 
parts for those who would like to 
participate in the singing. 
Next is a presentation of The TWELVE Days of Christmas The production ot the Christmas carol will come alive on the stage with all the familiar groups being portrayed by Michiana children from grades 2 through 9. River Bend Plaza Director Ron Bock has organized the effort. 
Following the children's 
presentation will be a comic inter­
pretation of the same carol entitled 
this time, The 1Twelve Days 
After Christmas and sung by 
the Purdue Extension Chorus of St. 
Joseph County. 
Next, Christmas carols will be 
sung by the Joy Handbell Choir of 
the First United Methodist Church 
of Elkhart. Directed by Neal Smith 
the choir will sing and play the 
handbells for several well-known 
carols. The program then ends 
with the audience participating in 
the singing of some popular yule­
tide favorites. 
Tickets are $2 for adults and for 
children 12 and under, $1. They 
can be purchased at the door or 
may be bought in advance at the 
Century Center office at 121 S. 
Michigan. Call 284-9711 for more 
information. 


Choir debut 
The Notre Dame Gospel Choir, Uader the direction of Dr. Jerome Thornton, will hold its "Concert Debut" Sunday, Dec. 12 at 7:30 
p.m. in the library auditorium. 
Admission is free, however do­. nations· will be accepted. 
,· ~"\~,~ •• w~ t';~ .• ~· ~· ,· ,· ~ .,.....•• "~ 

: TIMM PARTY STORE : *STARTS FRIDAY* 
Double Feature! !
:oPEN: MON -SAT 9 am -11 pm: : SUNDAY 12 noon-11 pm •
• 
: COLD BEER, PACKAGE LIQUOR,: 
: WINE, GOURMET FOODS : 6 :ao· \0o:~o0o e S ST NILES MJCffiGAN• SAT. 6:00onlydueKiddie
SUN

• 3114 • 11 • ' e & SNEAK PRE­
rnatinee 

• VUE!
• 1 BLOCK NO OF IND.-MICH. STATELINEON U.S.31: t--....;,;;.;.;.,_____.._..._...;;;;..;;,;~.;.,;;~~--:"1 
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Special Sun. only -8:00pm 
~E t~fl#;l-i i5I§t;1 =~~ 
Come in at 6:00 m -See All 3 Features! 
Now .. The world's favorite bedtime story is finally a t--~""".._~..._...,lli6ij..._. bed t i to r y ! 




Michigan Ski Weekends. 
Good ifyou're good. Good ifyou're not. 
-
Learn how good you can be in Michigan. We have the slopes, 

the snow, equipment to rent instruction for all-and the neamess to make it a long-playing weekend. For next to nothing, you're into every­thing in Michigan. If the great skiing up ~re doesn't come naturally to you. a lot of other things do. 
For latest snow conditions, 
3201A5335 road conditions, free Michigan Michigan Travel Commission 
Ski and Snowmobile Map... Suite 102 300 South Capitol Avenue Lansing, Michigan 48926 Call toll free 
Or write: 

Please send free Michigan Ski and Snowmobile Mop.800-248-5456 Nome__________________________________
~ School__________________________________ 
I 
Address,_________________________
I I 
c~----------------------------­
I stote_____________zip________ 
I I 

·'\ ..,.-.....
.'_ ~· •.. ·' . 

>c......... .;;>•.;~...t...l:,..• ll • ,.t._'\, • " ~ ''"" ·• f.·,·, 


*The Observer 
anindependentstudentnewspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Q!;.:;~rver is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free 
expressio11 of varying opinions on campus. 
r----JIIP-~~­ Business Manager  Tom Fronczak  
Advertising Manager  Mike Miller  
Photo Editor  Tony Chifari  
Production Manager  Martha L. Fanning  

Friday, December 10, 197& 


Xmas Gift List 
Following the great Observer tradition we present out annual gift list: 
To the Administration: Their very own child, so they can stop worrying about everyone else's. 
To the Student life Council: A clock_to --·­watch and Geritol--or a grave~fur.--~ 
To WSND: A port~of Bro. Just Paczesny with his_moUfh shut. . To Dean R ~ er: One more command­ment an a beard. 
he Student Body: A golden calf 

recast from the melted down Dome).
To Fr. Hesburgh: The cabinet position
deserves: the Department of Transportation.
To Fr. Burtchaell: His very own first 
To Mike Gassman: Who? 
To Tom Soma: A laundered pig. 
To the library: Some_books J?Ublished in the twentieth century (m English). 
P.O.BoxQ 
Augusta Defended 
Dear Editor: less (whl.ch still hasn't been found!). And in the infrequent case that an Augusta resident might lose her keys, we have found that security (the gentlemen that they are) have been more than willing to help us out. 

Augusta has not become a dorm of many cliques. Echoing through­out the unrenovated halls of Augusta is the constant phrase, ·'I'm glad I moved here 'cuz I didn't know any people in my class until now". 
Finally, the general idea of a "hall where the resident solve their own problems" has been spirited away into the forbidding niches of the Vice President of Student Affairs Office where they have been "kindly" solved for us. In the final analysis we are not merely a collection of cliques living in an isolated, inconvenient locat.ion (we're not quite located in LaPorte. 
ln.),  but rather  we  live  within  a  
homey  atmosphere  are  mutual  
friends.  

[Name withheld be request] 
To the SophomorP. literary Festival: The collected works of Hortense Calisher;and liz Ray as the big draw. 
To Arthur Pears: A S.W .A.T. team. And a redeeming quality. 
To Mary Lou Bilek: A vote of confidence; and a v.p. elected by more than ten percent of the student body. 
To Just Paczesny: A new name: Hortense Calisher (and a night at the Sophomore literary Festival). Also, to match Sun-King Lmis XIV who said, "I am the state": a crown and light bulb so he can be the 40-watt Sun-King of Student Affairs. 
To Astrid Hotvedt: A new name -Just 
Paczesny. 
To Fr. Toohey: A mail subscription to ''Playboy'' and a post office box so he will no longer have to resort to brown paper
bags. 

Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Phones: (219) 283-8661 [ND] (219) 284-5365 [SMC] 
EDITORIAl BOARD 

Thomas O'Neil  Editor-in-Chief  
Dan Sanchez  Managing Editdr  
Chris Smith  Asst. Managing Ed.  
Gregg Bangs  Executive Editor  
Val Zurblis  Executive Editor  
Pat Hanifin  Editorial Editor  
Bob Mader  Exec. News Editor  
Maureen Flynn  Campus Editor  
Marti Hogan  St. Mary's Editor  
Don Reimer  Copy Editor  
Tim O'Reiley  Features Editor  
Fred Herbst  Sports Editor  


Boon Praised 
Dear Editor: 

While it is true that Kurt Hench may have played a role in convinc­ing the administration that fresh­men should be allowed to bring cars on campus the second semest­er, we think credit should be given where it is due. Andy Baan was the chairman of the car committee and 
did  most  of  the  work  that  was  
required.  
It  was  Baan  who  contacted  

security and found out how many spaces were available for cars and it was Baan who checked with the security chief to make sure the additional cars would pose no problem. Baan organized the other freshmen representatives and had them take a hall count to find out just how many freshmen would be bringing cars back, and he was the one who wrote the letter to Bro. Just Paczesny that should have cars on campus. Roy Bixby and 
4-8 Flanner 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
/t1~5. /44VIiNftlf(T, IN t£55 THAN A MONTH, Yat IJ/Itt.. 8ftf.4YIN6 fOI? /IJIISHIN6TON! 14/HAT WU. ~ Y()(Jf?.. fiRST 
PRJORmes A5 A N~W OF 7HP HJI/Se? 
\ 
UH.. MR5. OAYeNPOiff? 
I 

opinion~~~~~~~~~ 

Christmas time 
•


agatn 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii___. ro5 e bIon di5 
It's Christmas time again, and Notre Dame is transformed into a beautiful Winter Wonderland; that is, everyone is wondering how he'll get through Final Exams. The students celebrate the holiday sea­son in various ways. Some go to the library and work diligently at their "Christmas carrots." Others go to the bars, returning home with noses fit to lead Santa's sleigh. Still others, forgetting the "joyous strains" of Finals, deck the halls and walls of Farley, Fa La La La La, La La La La. 
Yes, we've come a long way since the First Noel. Christ must crack a smile when He sees the way we celebrate His bitheday nowa­days. Did you ever wonder what would happen if He were born in the 1970's--say, for instance, in 1976... 
The setting is the Notre Dame campus, the time December. 1976. Mary and Joseph are having an enormous difficulty in searchingfor a STABLE place to spend the night. There was no room in the Holiday INN. The couple finally settle down in GRACE, with their mule of course. 
Once the Good News leaks out, Mary and Joseph are in trouble-the Press is banging on the door of the study lounge where the babe has been born. CBS wants to do a Christmas Special on Jesus, and they even want Mary to wrap Him in MODELING CLOTHES. Mary refuses, but she does allow them to photograph Him for the news. Onlookers are convinced this really is the DEVINE FAMILY. and the beginning of a new ARA. Oh Holy Night, the STARS are brightly shining: there's Ted Burgmeier, Willie Fry, AI Hunter... A crowd is following the Stars to Grace, and lo and behold, there are a mul­titude of RA's with their SHEEP­ISH Freshmen, and a Host of others who are really SHEEP. There are even three wise men-­Pre-Med students no doubt. 
Thence follows a huge kegger. Mary pours drinks beside her ox, and Joseph gets bombed on his ass. Kevin Dickerson, the little drum­mer boy, is really RUM pum pumming. Oh, tidings of Southern Comfort and joy. But, where is the hay in which to lay the babe? Although hay is hard to come by on campus, some consciencious Bible reader has brought a lot of grass. 
Unfortunately, Security hears about this celebration and raids the party. All the Faithful are forced to leave, Joyful and Triumphant. But still, the campus does not sleep in Heavenly Peace... 
Suddenly, up on the Golden Dome, click, click, click, appears an English Prof., Dr. "Clause." His TEAM, led by Rick SLEIGH-ger, charges around the campus, bom­barding the students with sugar plums. Fortunately, someone calls Rick a Sugar Plum Fairy, so he stops Clause's team from rushing any further. 
Poor Jesus is forgotten in the midst of all the commotion. Mary. MATER of God, writes a letter to her sister, Alma Mater, asking if she can contribute a small sum for the family's stay in Grace. She is still awake at dawn, due to the clatter of all of those birds outside of her window (nearly twenty-five, counting the partridge, two turtle doves, french hens, calling birds. geese a laying and swans). How did those birds get here --art they from St. Joseph's lake? No, but they are from St. Joseph, Mary's true love. The poor students will flunk their exams unless someone gets rid of all that noise. But, wait! Surely, those three wise men who were at the party will know what to do. They bring gifts to the child, asking Him to bring quietude to the campus. Then thro' the cloven skies to the birds, with peaceful wings unfurled. The wise men go forth to testify to all they have seen. 
Everyone is so thrilled that Christ has been born at Notre Dame --just think of all that publicity! "God has TOUCHED DOWN at Notre Dame." "Devine family resides in Grace at Notre Dame." "Jesus promises to crush the Hurricanes and divide the Crimson Tide." 
But, Father Hesburgh has issued an official statement to all students who have not yet taken their last finals. "You'd better watch out, you'd better not cry, ~rou' d better not pout, I'm telling you why. This is the policy of the University. Christ is born, but exams must go on." And now, three ships come sailing in to take the Devine family to Washington, where they will be protected from assassins or kid­nappers. 
... No, there's no doubt in my mind as to why Jesus didn't choose Notre Dame for His birthplace. Although He would probably ap­peal to the Masses here, He might put an end to the steady stream of PROFITS to the school. 
-~----~-­
----~----­

opinion 


SLF Defense Fr. Teds X-mas 
Editor's Note: The following letter is a response to the current criticism of the Sophomore Literary Festival and is printed here with the permission of Ms. Ryan and Dr. Vasta. Ms. Ryan is on the SLF Committee. 
Dear Kathy Ryan: 
I've heard it frequently said that the Sophomore Literary Featival may have served its 'purpose and might now well be discontinued. This view is contradicted by the crowds of students who attend the Festival readings, converse with Festival guests in classrooms or in special convocations, and meet Festival guests on a personal and social bases. In the statistical language beloved of budget ad­ministrators, the seven-day Festiv­al generates thousands of educa­tive student-contact-hours. 
Even more. the Festival 'makes" the Sophomore year. This traditionally flat, tentative, transi­tional, undefined. and unfocused year is given a center and excite­ment by the Festival. Sophomores founded it, Sophomores have sus­tained it, and Sophomores have deserved the tribute of having achieved national and international recognition. What other Student Union function--indeed, do all the other Student Union functions put together--compare with the accu­mulated achievement and contri­bution of the Literary Festival's arranged for this campus by the sophomore class? 

In plain fact, there has never been an unsuccessful Sophomore Literary Festival. Even though the Student Union and the campus press have moved steadily against the Festival in recent years, the scope, the excitement, and the quality of the Festival have been sustained. 
Those who undermine from within by seeking to cut off funds, and those who attack from without by calling for more circus and less education have not disrupted the balance and diversity of talents invited to the Festival, nor the careful planning behind Festival presentations, nor the dedicated hospitality shown to guests, nor the lively engagement of large num­bers of interested students. History is on the side of the Festival, whose original purposes--to educate and to celebrate--have been preserved at the same time that new wrinkles have been tried every year. 
I see nothing in the future that offers to replace the Literary Fest­ival as the magnificent contribution 
-which the sophomore class makes annually to this University. 
I don't know exactly why, but experience convinces me that the Sophomroe Class in uniquely the right group to sustain the Festival. As we move deeper into an era in which celebrity writers' agents demand more and more money for less and less performance, and in which some students seek more and more entertainment and less and less education, sophomores have been able to maintain the 
edward vasto 
clear dedication and selfless energy 
that originated the Festivals. 
The first Festival committee had 
a relatively easy time of it, securing 
the commitments of worthy writers 
and maintaining confidence in a 
discerning audience have gotten~ 
harder and calls for even more 
effort and conviction. 
Your first obligation, in my view, 
is not to relinquish control or undue 
influence over the Festival to the 
faculty, to the Student Union, to 
the campus press, or to any other 
group outside of the Sophomore 
class. Nor need you seek refuge in 
some verbalized idea about the 
Festival, some definition of what it 
ought to be, or some statemant 
about its role. These will betray you 
as much as other groups will betray 
you. 
The Literary Festival has its own 
history. Proceed on that basis. The 
Festival belongs to the Sophomore 
class, and their personal and 
dynamic energy is the basis for the 
Festival's success. If the sopho­
mores run out of purpose and 
steam, it will not be the Student 
Union nor the Observer who eilllet 
you know that. 
It will be the committee itself and 

byMoFiynn 
'Twas the night before Christmas and all 'round the Dome 
Not a student was stirring-they all had gone home.· 
The TV's and such were locked in with great care 
In hopes that when students returned they'd be there. 
Each Father was huddled all snug in the sack 
And wishing the students would never come back. 
And I in my cassock, my collar and cap 
Had just settled down for a long winter's nap. 
Then from up above me I heard a strange sound. From the bed to the hallway I flew with a bound. I raced down the staircase both quickly and nimbly, And crossing the hallways, I peered up the chimney. 
There on the rooftop, his teeth all a-glistening, 
His head tilted sideways as though he were listening, 
Yes, there on my rooftop, his dental work gleaming 
Was---"Oh, blast it," I said. "I've got to be dreaming. I'm sure I'm still sleeping. Yes, really, I must be." But a voice wafted down to my ears. It said, "Trust me. "Ah only bring goodies to good boys like you-­"Treasury, HUD. agriculture or HEW? "Ah don't want to rush you--these things should take time, "But, really, Ah can't talk much longer in rhyme. 
"You're not anti-Semitic, don't tell dirty jokes-­"Your appointment should sit well with Catholic folks. "C'mon, Fahthah Ted, this is me, Jimmy Cahter. 
Accept an appointment--! do think you oughta!" 
I pondered and puzzled, I knelt down and prayed. 
When I rose in an hour my decision was made. 
"Thank you much, Mr. Carter. I'm terribly flattered, 
I've thought and I've prayed till my knees are quite battered. 
My answer is ready; without further ado, 
Mr. Carter---( remainder of manuscript is totally incomprehensible). 
the audiences, large ones, who find ~~......::~;;;::;:=::::;..::::::.....c....L......L......G;;;::,~__::lo.....::::......:::::..::==::....:::........tt:.....::;...L...::::::.-...:~:!oo,_t 
it fun to meet a celebrity but who mainly look for gifted literary people who are important discov­
eries for them and for this campus. Sincere regards, Edward Vasta, Chalnnan, English Dept. 




Christmas Carol Revised 
mike bowler 
Recently I was struck by the thought that the words of Charles Dickens are not merely speaking to the people of nineteenth century England but that they are intended for us also. The terrible social conditions and injustice which exis­ted in Dickens' time have not disappeared; rather they are very much with us today. The Spirit of Dickens still cries out to us--of that I am sure. With that in mind, let us examine what Dicken's classic Christmas story, A Christmas Car­ol, has to say to us here at Notre Dame a few weeks before Christ­mas 1976. 
Today's Uncle Scrooge is not likely to be found in a small counting firm on Christmas Eve as he was in Dickens' time. In our era we have huge corporations, some are multinational. Often we don't realize the detrimental consequen­ces of the multinational corpora­tions' virtual dictatorship of much of the world's economy, especially the economies of the poorer na­tions. Imagine a malnourished Latin American child spending his only centavo for a Coke--it hap­pens! But today's Uncle Scrooge is not conscious of what is going on. He will spend the day of Christmas Eve counting out his profits on the 43rd floor of a building in New York, Chicago or Los Ageles while thousands of shoppers on the floors below rush to buy the luxuries which his multinational corporation is selling. 
Like his counterpart in days gone by today's Uncle Scrooge wishes to be left alone. If there are poor in the world (in India and Bangla­desh) they had better die and thereby decrease the surplus popu­lation--we don't know the first thing about their plight, they live half way around the world (though in reality they might just live down · the street) and, besides, we have our own business to attend to. 
Today, it would be a Godsend if Marley's ghost entered our souls. 

We need to hear the ghost rattling 
his chains and moaning in agony when we tell him that in his life he was always a good businessman, that he was able to successfully manipulate the forces of the ''free market" for the good of his company, of his nation, and of the world. But most of all we need the ghost of a Jacob Marley that cares enough about us that he wants to save us from his own fate; thus sending us three spirits in the course of one night. 
Today's Uncle Scrooge neds the ghost of Christmas Past to take us back to Christmas of 1919. We need to learn of an era of Wilsonian idealism because no matter how incredulous and naive this attitude may appear to be it laid the foundation for the United Nations-­an institution that many have called "our last best hope." The Spirit must take us back to the Christmas of 1947, to see the generosity of Americans toward their European brothers' and sisters' desperate need after WWII. Since then, despite the great need of the poor and hungry throughout the world our foreign aid has nevercomeclose to that of the Marshall plan and, in fact, foreign aid has declined to only a fraction of what it once was and should be in terms of our ability to give. 
We need the ghost of Christmas Present to take us to the family of Third World countries this Christ­mas--they may not have much in terms of material wealth but many of their poor have something far greater--the Christmas spirit. We need to see the Tiny Tim of the developing nations--Tanzania, a fascinating democratic and egali­tarian experiment in economic and political edvelopment, but severely crippled being a Fourth World country with a heavy debt and few successful exports in the world market. Uncle Scrooge needs to be shown the bitterness which his nephew's family, the countries of Latin America, hold against him this Christmas. Most of all he Ghost of Christmas Present must show us the child of Want and the child of Ignorance, cold and shiver­ing, huddled on a street corner in South Bend, back in your home town or anywhere and everywhere else throughout the world. 
The Ghost of Christmas Future must lead us ahead to a somber day when ghouls are dividing up a wealthy old man's possessions.
Finally, the phantom must take us to the graveyard. He must beckon Uncle Scrooge for­ward to gaze at a particular grave 

marker.  And  when  we  see  the  
initials U.S.  we  will  sink  to  our  
knees crying out in despair.  

We need the visits of these spirits so that this Christmas we may awake as changed persons and as a changed nation. We should realize that the future can be changed if we as a nation take the initiative to reach out to people in need throughout the world. By promoting the establishment of a world food reserve, by initiating action on a new world economic order. by responding to the needs of the Third and Fourth World countries we can make a differ­ence. And finally, we must thank Charles Dickens and the ghost of Jacob Marley and celebrate in the true Christmas spirit. 
On behalf of the Hunger Coali­tion I would like to thank all of you who have contributed so generous­ly this semester to our dining hall collections and to our Wednesday night fasting program. In particu­lar, I would like especially like to thank Doug Allen, a senior who is graduating this winter, for the enormous contributions he has made to promote social justice while here with us at Notr::-Dame. Finally I want to wish each one of you a very Merry Christmas. In Tiny Tim's words--"God bless us, every one!" 
opinion 


The Rea I G r .n c h 
1 

mike richter 
C~ies of "Grinch!, Grinch!" 
reverberate through our hallowed 
halls. The alleged Grinch Roemer 
refuses to recognize our sacred 
right to keep live Christmas trees in 
our rooms. "They are a fire 
hazard'' is his spurious reply to any 
inquiries. Not receiving any good 
reason from him for his sweeping 
action, we the students assume he 
must be the Grinch in disguise, out 
to steal Christmas. 
Perhaps Christmas trees should be allowed in the rooms of those who need to cut down a tree in order to be natural for the ten days or so before they leave here. What with exams, maybe these people will crack without a beloved tree. Dean Roemer's action would cer­tainly prove inhuman then. Hope­fully, Father Griffin's "campus tree" will serve as a suitable surrogate, but only time will tell. 
At the risk of superseding Dean 
Roemer in his annual #1 position a 
as "Grinch of the Yuletide Sea­
son", I'd like to suggest banning 
all "traditional" outdoor lighting 
not only from campus, but nation­
ally as well. Sugarplums, ribbons, 
turkey, candles all should stay, but 
the light should go. 
Why? Not only because they are gaudy, unimaginative, (In how many peaceful Christmas card scenes do you see the glare of red, white, blue, green, yellow, orange and sometime purple lights??) and unproductive, but because they use up power and detract trom the true meaning of Christmas. Christ chose to be born in a manger, not a circus. 
The Winter energy crisis of '74-'75 was a mere two years ago. Remember the lines at the ga'> ·stations, the signal flags, and in some states, the rationing by license plates? Remember the gas and electric bills doubling, in some places tripling, and the 55 mile/­
hour speed limit? 
Consider this; Assuming there are SO million households in the U.S., each having SO 7112 watt Christmas-light bulbs (that's about two strings of light bulbs) assum­ing further that these households will have their lights switched on for 6 hours a day, (from 5 to 11 p.m.) for the next 3 weeks, the households in the United Sates alone will be using apporximately 2 billion, 205 million kilowatt-hours of energy. This includes neither the major businesses whose stores we go into to see the lights, nor state outdoor displays. 2 billion, 20S million kilowatt hours of energy is one hell of a lot of energy. 
Grinch or no, we do not have the right to use this amount of power for such an insignificant purpose. Perhaps if our energy resources 
were limitless, then we could say go ahead. The lights do add to the good cheer of the season, and right, they are festive. Some people think the~r' re pretty, not gaudy. The light companies have to do something for a living. The lights make those who don't understand Christmas a little happier. I could understand all this if our energy supplies were not running out. but they are! 
Cry "Grinch!", if you like. 
However, before you do, remember 
that while the Grinch stole away 
with all the trappings of what has 
become traditional Christmastime, 
the lights, the presents. the yam, 
the trees, he could not take the 
spirit of Christmas away from the 
people. 
I know that Christ was born in a 
manger, not as a king. I realize that 
He had no light but a single star, no 
Santa Claus, no turkey, no yam, no 
cut down tree, no Christmas trap­
pings, no luxuries, just a roof. a 
blanket, and some straw. I know all 
that. That is precisely why I must 
question, all these people on this 
campus, (bastion of Catholicism 
that it is) who are putting up their 
Christmas lights and yelling about 
trees thay can't keep in their rooms 
for the ten days before they leave, 
what is going on? 
I question their motives in focus­ing our attention on material things. Either these people have selfish motives, (they want to impress everyone with their decor­ated trees and flashy lights), or they are unaware of the dimensiosn of our energy problems, or they are ignorant, or they are deliberately trying to steal, not merely the trappings of Christmas -human­kind can easily do without those ­b11t the Christmas spirit, the mean­.; "'~ of Christmas itself. They are trying to get everyone so hooked on material things, that without them, Christmas won't seem like Christ­mas. 
Who are the real Grinches? 

---------------~~-----~--------~-~ -~ --~---·-----------------------------------.. 



SMC students confronted with housing hassle 
by Anne Bachle middle of the year." 
Staff Reporter As a result, students have been 
placed in singles or doubles as they 
have become available. 
Efforts by the St. Mary's Hous­"I was one of the lucky ones," ing Office to transfer students out stated freshman Kathy Horgan. of student lounges and classrooms "I've got a single in Regina, but at being used as temporary housing least I know where I'll be living with met with resistance from next semester. The girls across the students dissatisfied with the hall don't even know where they'll move. be. yet they're supposed to be 
·'The problem," explained moved into their new rooms before Housing Director Minnie Owens, the semester ends." "is that they still wanted to all live "We understand that they need together. a~d requested triples or these rooms as classrooms, but we quads. There's just no way a whole don't like the idea of being separat­quad is going to be free in the ed from all our friends, and spread 
Hare Krishnas compete with traditional Santas 
Officials in at least four major cities sa~· they are getting com­plaints that the saffron-robed fol­lowers of Hare Krishna have donned Santa Claus suits and are soliciting contributions on the street corners. 
In New York, members of the religi<ms sect 'were vying with the Santas of the charitable organiza­tion, Volunteers of America. for pocket chan.ge of passersby. 
"They've been harassing our Santa Clauses, .. said Don Schwartz of the Volunteers. "They've been standing in the way of our chimney which prevents many people from coming up and making donations." 
"The essence of our preaching mission is to have people remem­ber God." said Roma Pada, assoc­iate director of public affairs for the Krishnas. "Santa being a contem­porary emblem of Christmas, when people see Santa we want them to think of God." 
A spokesman for the City Social Service Department in Los Angeles said the Volunteers' Santas have complained about the Krishna Kringles. 

Lecture tonight 
Dr. Neil J. McMillan. a Canadian geologist. will discuss the "Geolo­gy of the Labrador Sea and Its Petroleum Potential" at Notre Dame tonight at 7 p.m. The lecture is open to the public and will be held in room 101 of the Earth Sciences Building. 
McMillan is a Distinguished Lecturer sponsored by the Amer­ican Association of Petroleum Ge­ologists. Currently employed by the Aquitaine Company of Canada Limited, he is involved in petro­leum exploration in the northwest Atlantic Ocean. His appearance at Notre Dame is sponsored by the Department of Earth Sciences. 

"They mtll around with Santa's 
Belles, the girls who ring the bells, 
and try to get donations.'' said 
David Heim. "It confuses the 
public because they don't know 
who they are." 
Heim said the Krishnas are not authorized to make charitable sol­icitations in Los Angeles but they can appeal for religious donations. 
San Francisco police also have reported that Krishna Klauses "give people a flower and follow them down a street until they get a donation or the flower back." 
"There's no law we can get them on," said police Capt. Gus Brune­man. "They're religious, and we can't get them for begging.'' 
out all over campus," she com:· mented, adding that several stu· dents planned to complain to the administration. 
"We've been hearing all semes­ter long how they need those classrooms in Regina," said Owens. "We also don't think it's right that there are no study lounges on the floors in LeMans." 
When the freshmen living in these facilities were informed that they would have to move, they were told they wold have first priority to other rooms on campus. 
Due to an unusually high student acceptance rate, emergency hous­ing was established in all the halls this fall, assigning students to rooms normally reserved for a purpose other than housing. 
"We didn't even know about this at all till we got here," Horgan continued, referring to the emer­gency housing. "But we didn't complain, we all adjusted. Yet now they're asking us to go through the whole thing again, making new friends, adjusting all other again." 
"We're doing the best we can," Owens remarked. "We chose rooms least desirable for living in, which were needed most for other purposes. There are about 36 freshmen involved whom we are trying to relocate. These students have received top priority, over upperclassmen, who have been requesting rooms as far back as June. In no instance has a student been moved out of emergency housing and placed with an upper­
~ht {nlrrnial 


Fancake J{nus£ ~ 
OUR SPECIALTY OVEN-BAKED APPLE PANCAKES 
"You 'II be back for more" 
US 31 CDixieway North) in Roseland (Across from Holiday Inn) 

December 27th 
GatorBowl Garne 
Penn State/Notre Dame Special Rates
$13~~r Pers 
Obi Occ. Minimum 2 Days 
• 
190 Luxury Rooms 

• 
10 Minutes from Stadium 

• 
Special Buses to &from Game 

• 
10 Minutes from Airport 

• 
Free Airport Limo pickup & delivery 

• 
Restaurant & Lounge 


Also Special Group Rates 
CALL COLLECT 
(904) 757-0990 


1057 Broward Rd. & 1-95 North Jacksonville, Florida 32218 Phon~ (~04) .7~?-P9~Q .•.·. , . 
.·;~ .:~·.·~ ·~· (~~~;.·~~~~~~' .· 







AN TOSTAL 
Organizational Meeting Jan. 25, 1977 -9pm LaFortune Ballroom 

Will FARAH FAWCETT Be This Year's SPECIAL GUEST??? 
·:-.·~.-,.-.·:_-.._.Everyone is w~lcome...... . 

classman, and I hope we don't have to resort to that,'' Owens said. 
"It would not be too much of a problem finding rooms for these girls if they didn't want to be together," Owens noted. "But we've got singles or single spaces in doubles and triples open, and these girls have refused these." 
"I'm terrible sorry if they don't like it, but we really have put them first, and we've worked awfully hard to try and settle this." 
"It really has turned into a hassle," she observed, "but we're still working on it. 


SPECIAL HOLIDAY RATES 
FOR ND, SMC STUDENTS AND FACUL TV !! 
Rent a car for round-trip from South Bend and return for less than half-price! $50 per week, $.16 per mile (you pay for gas). Round up your friends to make a full car and end enjoy the holidays at low cost! 
Call or stop by to get full details and reserve your late-model Hertz car. 
Phone: 232·5871 Hertz Renf.a-Car 710 N. Niles Ave. south Bend 
SHARE THE RIDE WITH US THIS CHRISTMAS AND GET ON TO AGOOD THING. 
Us means Greyhound. and a lot of your fellow students who are already on to a good thing. You leave when you like. Travel comfortably. Arrive refreshed and on time. You'll save money. too. over the increased air fares. Share the ride with us on weekends. Holidays. Anytime. Go Greyhound. 


GREYHOUND SERVICE 
ONE-ROUND-YOU CAN YOU TO WAY TRIP LEAVE ARRIVE 
Chicago, U. $6.75 $12.85 10:20 am 
ll:15 am 
Cleveland, 0 $18.20 $34.60 10:00 am 4:20pmDetroit $14.20 $27.00 3:35 pm 9:00pmToledo $11.10 $21.10 4:00 pm 7:10pm
Milwaukee $11.20 $21.30 1:35 pm 5:45pm 
Ask your agent about additional departures and return trips. 
Greyhound Bus 1 ~s 
105 N. Main Downtown S.B. 287-6541 




GO GREYHOUND 
.Hand leave the driving to us@ 
. . . • . . . ~· ....:t~~~·:.~' 

.­

.-~----------------------~--­
£_riday, December 10, 1976 the~observer 17

Unilateral decisions cited 
Faculty dissatisfied with administration 
by Maureen Flynn decided to ask Hesburgh to "enjoin body" to appoint a proxy to Academic Council for considera-representative. The committee Campus Editor 
distribution of the Faculty Service represent him in meetings if neces-tion. would study the opinions of faculty form" until the question has been sary. The proxies would have full The Senate proposal called for and students concerning the policy Discussion of a new Faculty settled by the Academic Council. speaking and voting privileges. the suspension of the new exam and their experiences with it and Service form expanded into expres-Some senators expressed con-The Academic Manual allows policy until an investigation of the prepare a report for the Senate and sions of dissatisfaction with faculty-cern that faculty members would "ex officio members...(to) be rep-effects of the policy on students the Academic Council by Feb. 20. administration relations last night not be privy to the department resented at meetings by their and faculty could be conducted. Prof. Peter Brady said he believ­at a meeting of the Faculty Senate. chairman's comments on his meet-deputies." Prof. James Robinson, The Executive Committee of the ed the provost, although strongly Senate Chairman James p · ing with the faculty member, while who introduced the measure, noted Senate introduced a proposal to opposed to evening examinations, Danehy noted that three adminis-others objected to the possibility of that he was forced to miss the establish an ad hoc volunteer was open to proposals for examina­trative decisions have been the forms becoming mandatory. A Academic Council meeting last committee of eight persons: four tion periods other than the current "sprung" on the faculty since Jan. frequently-voiced objection to the week because he had a class faculty, one of whom would be a 8TT10 slot. Examinations in the 
I. 1976, despite the administra-form was that faculty representa-scheduled at that time. Robinson member of the Academic Council, spring semester will be schedule tion's professed agreement to prin-tives were not informed that it was blamed many of the absences at and four undergraduates, one of from 8 a.m. to 9:15 a.m., and no ciples of "cooperation and consul-being implemented and had not that meeting on similar faculty whom would be an elected SLC classes will begin until 9:30a.m. 
tation." opportunity to evaluate the form scheduling problems and indicated ..J.,__--.,.,_..,~---\1111--.~"""--"'"'--"'~,--~t,...-... 
Senate members cited the "uni-and suggest changes and improve-that a close 27-21 vote to table the lateral" character of decisions to ments. Senate's proposal on the new prohibit evening examinations, to In other business, the Senate examination policy might have TODAY , DECEMBER 10 issue freshman mid-semester unanimously passed a proposed been very different if faculty repre­grades and to distribute the Faculty amendment to the Academic Man-sentatives or their proxies had been Service form. The Senate concur-ual. which would allow "an elected present. at 
red with Danehy's intention to faculty member of a University The proposal will go to the 
write a letter to University Presi-
Audio Specialists 

~~~~ti~~· ~~t~~~rea~i:s~~~~~~~~ ::·..F.·a···a··T···s··A···L··L·••F••A.··N···s··1: 
failure to communicate with 
Mr. K' n Akiyama , Technical Engineer for Lux Audio,

appropriate faculty representatives 
will conduct an 

prior to the announcement of the + t de~i~~o~!~ulty Service form will be i 197 6 GATOR BOWL :. 
available to departments after Jan. + + Amplifier Testing Clinic 
I, 1977 for use on a voluntary basis. + The form. to be filled out by the t WHERE TO STAY?? : 
faculty member, would include t + All High Quality Amplifiers and Receivers will be teacher-course evaluation ratings, + + eligible for testing and the owners will receive a test grades given to students, the + Heart of Jacksonville Motor Hotel + verification sheet for their records. 
faculty member's accomplishments + + 
Clinic hours are from 12 -7 pm and store hours are

and objectives, and a record of any + 901 Main Street Jax. 32202, Florida + 
from 12 -8 pm. 

meeting between the faculty mem-+ 11 Blocks from the Gator Bowl + ber and his department chairman : : AUDIO SPECIALISTS discussing the contents of the + + 
41 5 N. Michigan,

form. t 240 Rooms -Bus Transportation to & from the Bowl t 
South Bend

The Faculty Senate voted over-+ Restaurant -Lounge -Nightly Entertainment + 
whelmingly to request that the t C II ( ) + 
Academic Council suspend distri-+ a 904 355 -3744 or Write for reservations. + LUX Audio ofAmerica Ltd. bution of the form until the Senate + t Ultimate High Fidelity Stereo Component can conduct an evaluation of it. In a ...........• • • • • • • • • • ••••••••••••• 
Senajtiellmlelmlblelrlsllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll..ll... 



GREAT BOOKS ... GREAT GIFT IDEAS! 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
A POTRAIT OF ITS HISTORY AND CAMPUS Hardback $25.00 BY THOMAS J. SCHLERETH Paperback $7.95 
ONWARD TO VICTORY THE NOTRE DAME COOKBOOK 
A CHRONICLE OF THE ALUMNI' BEFORE AND AFTER THE GAME 
By James E. Armstrong $8.95 Edited by Flo Yearedel $6.95 
SHAKE DOWN~ THE THUNDER! WE REMEMBER ROCKNE 
THE BIOGRAPHY OF FRANK LEAHY 
By McCallum & Costuer $7.95

By Wells Twombly $8.95 
WAKE UP THE ECHOES THE GLORY OF NOTRE DAME 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 22 GREAT STORIES OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL By Ken Rappoport $8.95 Edited by Fred K;.tz $1.95 

THE FIGHTING IRISH A COACH'S WORLD KNUTE ROCKNE 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL THROUGH THE YEARS By Digger Phelps .-tt:95 YOUNG ATHLETE By Gildea $12.95 ~Y Guernsey Nan Ripey, Jr. $2.95 

ROCKNE 
NOTRE DAME IDOL, COACHING GENIUS, CELEBR.ITY--A LEGEND REVISITED 
By Brondfield $8.95 
Notre Dame Bookstore Second Floor 

. ~ _, ~' .: .-'· .........~ ." ~. t ~ " ~ Y • r '" -. • •-'· •· •· •· .-. "· •· •·...,. '· ,, ._,. ... ...,. "'• -.· 


Swine flu boosters recommended 
by Mike Towle viruses to have built up their tomorrow, Dec. 11 at the Mish­medicine in the right way.''
nization program is designed to 
Staff Reporter awaka County City Building be­
antibodies," explained Roberta give the best immunity possible to Hoffman, a health educator with everyone. For those between tht! tween 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. This 
People between the ages of 18 building is located at the corner of Chorus performs
the St. Joseph County Health ages of 18 and 24 years, that would 
and 24 are encouraged to receive a Department. mean ·a booster shot much like tht! Lafayette and Jefferson Streets booster swine flu shot to go along ''Tests in Atlanta have shown first one. across from WSBT studios and next The Notre Dame Chorus, under with the first one. According to a that people over 25 years old have to the Historical Museum. the direction of Walter Ginter, will
"It's exactly the same kind of
report from the Center for Disease built up enough antibodies from Hoffman offered an appraisal of present its annual fall concert at
shot as the first one," related
Control in Atlanta, Georgia, one one swine flu shot," she continued, the local immunization program, 8:15 p.m. tonight in Sacred Heart
Hoffman, in reference to the boos·
such shot is not sufficient protec­"to protect them while those in the stating that St. Joseph County had Church. The concert is open to the 
ter shot. She added that the
tion for those in that age category. 18-24 year old category need more been the most successful county in public.
booster shot is highly recommened 
.. People between the ages of 18 protection than can be received Indiana for immunizing people . Selections to be performed in­
for full protection from swine flu
and 24 years are not old enough to from one shot alone." "The immunization program is a clude the Poulenc "Gloria" and
although there should be at least a
have come in contact with enough Hoffman added that the immu-good idea," she stated. "It is a Daniel Pinkham's "Christmas
four-week lapse between receiving 
case where we are finall using Cantata."

the first injection and the booster. Many Notre Dame students and
UA W files suit 
staff received the first injection on 


INDIANAPOLIS [AP] -The United Auto Workers (UAW) filed a class action suit in U.S. District Court yesterday seeking unemployment compensation for women who have left their jobs because of preg­nancy. 
The Indiana Employemnt Se­ruritv Board was named as a defe~dant in the suit, filed on behalf of four female UA W mem­bers from southern Indiana who allegedly were denied jobless ben­etits while the~· were pregnant. 
The UA W claims the Indiana unemployment compensation stat­ute discriminates against women because it automatically presumes the~· are unavailable for work when they are pregnant or have left their jobs volunarily ""without good cause. 
Herbert Segal. a Louisville, Ky., attorney handling the case for the UAW, said he does not think this suit will be affected by the U.S. Supreme Court's decision Monday that a firm need not include pregnancy in its disability insur­ance program. 
"I have not read the full decision of that suit." he said, "but I believe that case covered a dif­ferent set of facts than we have here." 
John Coppes, executive director of the employment security divi­sion. said he was surprised by the 
Sale of tix urged 
Students are urge<;! by the Mardi Gras Committee to sell their raffle tickets over Christmas vacation. 
l First prize in this year's raffle is a 1977 Oldsmobile Cutlass• Supreme. in the colors blue and 
t 
• 
gold. Tickets are in books of 10 and are sold for one dollar each, with a 
~ 
~ two dollar commission to students on each book sold. In addition. there will be a drawing for students 
who sold books of tickets to award a 19-inch color TV. 
Oct. 28 while St. Mary's initial injection came on Nov. 10. More than four weeks have elapsed since both of those dates, making it possible for people to get their booster shots as soon as possible. 
"Students are encouraged to receive the shot over Christma:; while at home," advised Hoffman. "However. our health department hopes to have clinics in late January where students and staff from Notre Dame, St. Mary's, Bethel and !USB can receive these booster shots." 
For those people who have not yet received the swine flus shot Hoffman warns that the last clink before Christmas will be held 

MILLER FALSTAFF

NOW OPEN 

12 Pack 12 Pack 

$3.32 $2.98 
beerbeerbeerbeerbeerbeerbeerbeerbeerbeer 


SCHLITZ 
BUSCH 
6 Pack 
6 Pack 

$1.65 $1.59 
beerbeerbeerbeerbeerbeerbeerbeerbeerbeer 

USED 


BUDWEISER HAMM'S 

Pewter Figurines BOOKS OF 
12 Pack 12Pack 

Scholarly 'ALL TITLES: 
$3.08 $2.88

. d' Is /First Editions,
Ica 
k . /Rare, And Oult 
beerbeerbeerbeerbeerbeerbeerbeerbeerbeer

-Issues;
1Of Print Books 287-5533 


FALSTAFF LITE 
6 Pack 

6 Pack 9pm Mon. -Sat. 
$1.49 $1.68 

r-------··--
clip and save•----------. 
suit. 
Cop pes noted that currently, if an employer fires a woman because she is pregnant, she is eligible for benefits until she enters the hospi­tal. He said she also is eligible to receive benefits during the period following delivery when a doctor certifies she is able to work and until she finds a job.$ 
The suit seeks an injunction preventing the board from denying unemployment compensation to pregnant women. It also asks the court to order the board to pay benefits to all women who were denied compensation because of pregnancv. 

~ -~ GRIFFON -BooKSTORE ~­

General Titles, Science Fiction, \ Mystery, p er10 
Fantasy & B
\J ac 
Penquin Classics j 
121A S. Michit{an Downtown South Bend Open: 9am ­



I SUNDAY MASSES I






sJ\RNABvs I I
(Main Church) [311 the family inn 
I ~~ I 
OFFERING A 
1 December 12 1 


$100 I I
I I
5:15 pm Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C. S.C. 
9:30 am Sunday Rev. Joseph Carey, C. S.C. 
10:45 am Sunday Rev. John Gal len, S.J. 
12:15 pm Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C.

DISCOUNT I 1 
ON ANY 14 -INCH PIZZA 
Vespers will be at 7:15 p.m. in Lady Chapel. = 
c..
Rev. John Galien, S.J. will be celebrant. = 
TRY OUR GIANT 1/2 LB. PUB-BURGER \IJ OP~ '\ II '1.\1 I>All\ HJR ~'1-ST SEI ~ S~.R\'1Cf l.l:NCHEON 
= 
OP~'i Sl'it>H 4 P\1. 9:30 P.'\1 
December 19 I ~ ~ 

------COUPON -----­
I 

5:15pm Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
I


$1.00 off 
$.50 off 
9:30 am Sunday Rev. Edward Malloy, C. S.C. 
I 

any 10:45 am Sunday Rev. Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C. I
any 
12:15 pm Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C. S.C. 

14 inch Pizza 
10 inch Pizza 
Vespers will be at 7:15p.m. in Lady Chapel. 1
713 E. Jefferson I Rev. Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C. will be celebrant. 1713 E. Jefferson 
Expires Dec. 23Expires Dec. 23 
________,___clip and save___________


I · ·· · . , · I 
-~ , c '\ " ,) ' • \ \ t 
..,. ..... ­
Friday, December 10, 1976 the observer 19 

Notices  Classified Ads  
Morrissey Loan Fund  Wanted  Personals  mac,  to the lads i'lnd lasses met in foreign lands here and abroad:  
$20 -150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. Lafortune Basement. M-F 11:15-12:15. Need typing? Professional ty::>ing service. Top Quality. Conver ient Location. 232-0898.  Rider needed to Boston over break. Must go both ways, be experienced with stick, be approx. 115 lbs., leave Sunday, like sm. foreign sports car. Call Jeff 3451. Help wanted volunteer services is  mike gorman: good luck on your finals, lover, and remember your california girl. carla. tr, the answer to your riddle is simple, and pardon this short delay: "his  if you've seen one splinter, you've seen them all. love, mary kay. tpt, come over and play with my racket same time. macp.  i bid you au revoir and not adieu 1 will be back to quaff the tankards of wine and to listen to the angels trumpets and the devils drones, and to talk of the lands and days gone by. singed, dradoskawitz  
Accurate, Fast Typing.  Mrs.  Don­ looking  for  an  undergrad  student  thoughts  are  on  this  girt  at  st.  a friend of ours is afraid, that on his  
oho, 232-0746. Hours Sam to 8pm. Typing, Call Carolyn, 232-9061. Rides Available!!!!Cars going to many destinations. Gas is only expense. Call Bruce, 8906.  assistant preferable a junior. sti­pend position involving 12 hrs. a week. call 7308. desperately need ride for two to northwestern pa. or southwestern new york. also convenient to 1-90.  mary's who is sure to brighten al')yone's day." love, bb p.s. how 'bout a rendezvous? i'll bring the wine, you bring the mistletoe.  mac, beware of 301bs pike. sleep easy. rjb and rph dp. let's make it another 19 2b says hi. jj.  birthday he won't get laid ;• so if you'll be kind, our friend you will find, at phone one thousand and nine. happy birthday, ricky, jetty and tommy  
The last buses of the semester· to Chicago will be running Friday, Dec. 10 and Friday Dec 17 at S :45 from the Main Circle. Have a Happy Holiday. Tom 8338.  call bill 3216 or pat 8511. chicago bound??santa won't find me if i don't get a ride home. can leave by saturday, dec. 18. this will assure you of no coal in your stocking. i've got an in with the old  merJ, what about lothlorien? love, kevin. happy birthday to nelson, the bionic man. you are sexier and crazier than lee majors anyday.  junglebells, funky man, closet queen: love is infectious contagious. caustic,.  but  laughter's  james harvey, have a merry austrian christmas. we miss you, lyons (former!~ lewis) mental ward. ------------/-­remby, ren, reb, ranee, rat, rath rve, rand rail, ra. rest. merr·,  
ND-SMC Council for th.e Retarded:  [luy.  call kathy, 7853.  giggles,  christmas.  
Christmas Party Sat 9-11 :30.  Any  b.j. ciction.  ticklish.  

questions: Sue, 277-1182 or Jim 287-3975. Attention!! !Wilson Driveaway has cars going to the following locati<Jns for Christmas Bread: Cincinnati -2,  girl graduate student needs room­mate second semester. village terre apt. 2 bedroom furnished. call amy: 272-3297 ride_ need to mpls-leave lues., dec.  happy 19th to our resident smc. love, b.g. and m.f.k. and eli today is shelley Tledit's 20th birth­day. wish her a happy one at the  hell, i believe michelle, i believed bob didn't i? happy 22nd birthday, col and con­ typists-thanks tor everything all semester. you're the absolute greatest. es pecially karen, nancy, and morey. your hated, but grateful, sports editor.  
Columbus. Salt" Lake City, Round Trip, Portland, Oregon, Palm  21. matt 8906.  library toni[lhl. shelley.  have a great day,  gratulations on bald-nerds too!  your acquisition of  karen  
Springs, Calif., Los Angles, Corpus Christi, Texas, Round Trip, 'Little Rock, 2, Birmingham, 2 and Mon­tecello, N.Y.. For more information,  desperately need 2 marquette tix. jim, 234-8083 need 2 indiana b-ball tickets, call jim  214 he is bob mcdonnell worth it? call him­3551. i should!!  love, mo and jeanne. p.s. may the darkest part of your experience be the topping cin the cake.  i wish you'd tell me about these things before i do them. but thanks for listening and caring fred.  
call Dan, ~1d824. No charge for car. You pay for all gas. Logan Center Xmas Wrapping Party Campus View, 9:OOpm. Any ques­ at 8610 riders needed to ft. lauderdale-mi­ami for christmas break. must leave friday, dec. 17. call bob, 1419.  madnova­happy 21st! don't celebrate too much or you might turn a deadly shade of green.  dear blue eyes and col. clunk, may the bluebird of happiness 'grace' your single double in the coming year. don't eat too much at  morey­your picks are messed up. a drink on me anyway. fred  but have  
tions, call Sue. 277-1182.  christmas and don't forget to wear  
wanted  to  buy:  1 good  35mm sir  connie, today's the day.  still crazy  your galoshes and hoods.  V.­ 
Patrice Biels' Friday, 9:00.  Xmas cookie party. Call Patrice for more  camera.  call mark 259-3446.  after all these years?  rpd II  love, two thirds of the double triple.  puff, puff. puff, that cigarette. dr. demento  
info.  277-1182.  need ride  -stamford,  conn.  area.  
leave sat. call kevin. 8906.  snake pit housewarming jan. 17.  all  mrs.-------­ 
For Rent 4 bedroom house tor rent'. close  to  need ride to st. louis area for christmas. can leave anytime after 4:00on the 20th. call peggy4-4381.  cordially invited. jd need ride to northern n j-nyc area.  darling rick,  how many younens you'all plan on having anyway? matt clemson  
campus. Very reasonable. Well insulated and partially furnished. Call 277-3604 evenings. Roommates wanted for ND apt. Starting Jan 1. Call 288-4113.  need ride to balta-washington, de area for break. can leave sun., dec. 19 or later. call mary ellen, 8121. wanted girl, part-time for tony's  can leave sat. dec 18, after 10 am. call kathy 1317. m c will be holding a morals seminar every saturday morning at 7:30 am. just roll over  thanks for everything. you're number 1 with me. bick ·here's a note to sandra bennett and her rosie roommate sent it  hey kathy downs! your b-day isn't until the 18th, but take it ezbz. spike will wait for you. so what if i get an i.o. from t. how's number 84? be good over vacation because 105 has another semester of  
For Rent: Niles, 3 bdrm, Duplex, $180 plus u-tilities. 684-6986.  shoe shop. m-f, hours 2-4. riders wanted scoch -plains n. j area.  and ask her about it. to observerites. in case you don't  hope her birthday's full of spice all this "thyme" she's been so nice christmas eve she's 21  wch parties. remember bruiser, you're time is drawing nearer. love  
House for rent, off Portage, 3-4 bedrooms, furnihsed, available Dec. 20, $250 month plus utilities, 1  call buzz, 288-5858. need part time babysitter. 8:30-­11 :30 weekdays. 1 and one half year  know the staff party is this weekend. sat. dec 11, 1976 at campus view. fun, food, refreshments music, good times and fantastic company. from  hope pun  she'll forgive this coconut rose  wretched  not so tall ter. p.s. i'm bringing 2 pistols back. want to join me at the library?  
month deposit required. Call 232­9386 after 4 pm. Spacious 2 bedroom apt. in a quiet  old boy and 4 year old girl who attends nursey school mwf. must have transportation. some light housekeeping. my home is located 1  9pm to 2am. free to a good home. grey kitten approx. 6 months old. litter trained.  dear dick (whip), sorry you're pregnant. but at least you didn't have an accident. motown mama  baby 'ria, when do i get to sleep over? rufus  
neighborhood off Heat and Water stove and refridg.  Angela Blvd. furnished, also Call 684-5836.  mi. from married student housin[l. $22.00 per week. call 272-5808.  makes a great christmas present. contact lisa 6746.  dear whip (dick), sorry about your accident.  but  at  meg, what about hothlorien? love  
Lost and Found  need ride to ny 4-4356, cathy.  after  christmas.  anyone who decorate for  would t:ke to the observer  help xmas  least you're not pregnant. marvelous marla  kevin  
Lost my glasses between Nickies and the Library last Friday night. Have you seen them? Call Mike at 3652 if you have. Reward! !for return of "Death and Dying" Notebook taken from book­store last Thursday afternoon Dec. 2. 1desperately need that notebook. Call 272-8581. or leave it at the Math Lib. (Room 200, Math building Found: set of chrysler car keys in  riders to florida in a nice, comfor­table van. cal1684-6146or683-628l. riders to florida or points on the way. call marie 8073. For Sale fischer skis 160 em, marker bindings ooles, ladies boots 6 and one half excellent condition. call carra 4-4258  party, drive van or prepare food, contact martha at office or leave a note in my box. campus ministry west offices ground floor of badin -now student operated from Bpm to midnight, sunday through thursday. do you want to be a catholic? please call 283-6536 or 283-3820 for infor­mation about the notre dame cate­chumenate program.  dearest joe dradowskanwitz the pleasure has been entirely ours, give our best to deriHer and all the down-home folks. happy truck-dri­ving to you, jon. we can't wait for your return. com1 on back now, you here!! dana, best of luck with your interview!!! tamie jordon, who and where are  tr, amy, janet, and annette, hey guys! just a note to say high. forgive me, it's late. with sincere regards, bev. to the gentlemen on north quad monday night: chivalry isn't dead -­too bad it was wasted on a joke. ''gimp" and co.  
front of LaFortune. Call Churk 8540 or come to 315 Sorin. Found: Red black striped at Campus View, Fri. Dec. 3. Call 1558.  for sale: one student basketball season ticket. $10. call jim 3414. book shop. used books. students paradise, open wed., sat., sun., 9-7.  dear marsa, you should know by now that the best-laid plans don't work when i'm involved!!thank you, thank you, thank you and boy, was i ever surprised.  you? jim (1228) to the girls at smc: your c & d company is great! we'll be over to pick up our orders right  jack, have a merry christmas. missing you. love, jan constance­ i'll  be  
Jumper cables at St. Joe Airport. Monday morning, call 287-5655.  ralph casperson books. 1303 buchannon road. niles, michi[lan. 683-2888.  observer staff don't forget about the party sat nile at campus view. 9:00 pm to 2 a.m.  away.  it was great. thanks a lot. your flanner customers  happy birthday. honeymoon where? mbmo  
Found: 1 b-ball ticket at the Library Sat. night. Call 8953.  skis, hart freestyle, 195 em., excel­lent condition, call 277-3762 niles till midnight.  siva, the king is dead. the king's fool.  i am a freeman.  t.l. happy birthday to you. hope you have fun on this 10th day of dec-eer when you turn 21.  desperado, you're cute. how's your city·? much love, twinks  
Lost: Friday Dec. 3 in the Eng. Auditorium: a black osmiorid 65 pen with a left hand fine italics tip.  fur coats  for sale:'  mouton· lamb,  any observerite who needs a ride to the party please note van will leave  beth­ h.r.  joe, you have a bar of soap, use it! signed, hal, bill and tom.  
Neat Huh Sentimental value. Please Call Mark 8540. Thanks. Lost: '78 NO class ring. Initials FLB  muskrat, sheared beaver and mink. call after 6, 291-2258. 2 tickets to the gator bowl, at cost.  nd library circle 8:30, 9 :JOpm and from smc at holy cross hall 9 pm. tis the season to be baggy! !bag your  ; didn't have time to write you a personal so you'll have to get it next semester! duncan  terri sullivan: lots of lucK on your finals.... kris k.ringle  ..  
call Frank 1579.  289-1082.  friends! !bag your family.  bag your  
girl.  (no  stupid,  not  in  the  way  
Lost: Yellow contact lens case, with contacts. Call Dwight, 287-8393. Lost: key chain with 7 keys between Lemans and McCflndless. If found. call Ray at 4-1029. Found: one pair of glasses on the SM c shuttle Friday afternoon. Call: 4-57JQ.•  lang competition ski boots. size 10. $75 8760. ,·, ______.......,:. _____..:....._ __ for sale: 1965 dodge coronet, $200. cal1 277-1830. sansui au9900 integrated amptifier 80 rm~ per channel, .08 percent. thd one month old. call b~b ,1187. · , .r-:-.--.....-...... ~.,.......--,___.,..........,.-...~..._~.._·  you're thinking) bag them all with an inexpensive bag brothers !-shirt. you idiots ordered them and now we're stuck with them! !anyone in-. terested call big d-bag 3662 and find out how easy it is to bag someone and make them jolly. attention 1at floor of the palace: • , :~.4 ~fears_ 8)'1~ .n.Gt il sin!Jtl§.ll~r'Sonal. 'A•.. '  MerryChristms.  • ' ' •I ,. ' ! ~ ~ ' ~.­.., ~: ~. ·.  
how sad for you.  merry christmas.  .~-,  

2=0'--__..:..:thc..:..:::e~obse_!:y_e_r____Friday, December 10, 1976 
Traditions retain spirit of Christmas 
(continued from page 8) the new was menacing; a time drew three crosses on a house, and And now in the 20th Century, Moms spend hours baking cook­when good and evil hung in the initials of the Kings, it was 
were the first to make the tree a many of the same customs have ies, shopping for presents and 
thoUght no harm would visit there. 
Christmas tradition. The earliest balance. In south Germany, been retained. Children still be­addressing hundreds of Christmas 
masked children, carrying brooms, The Victorian era stirred the cards.
record of fully decorated Christmas come enchanted at the thought of 
went from house to house begging urban areas of America and Europe 
trees dates from 1605, and was the approaching season. They sit Whatever is done during thepresents in the name of Perchta, a as well as England during the
!locked with cut roses, colored for hours thumbing through the
December months. Improved roads holiday season and no matter howGerman Christian witch. In other
paper. apples. wafers, gilt-sugar, catalogues making lists which seem 
parts of Europe, the star-singers, a and railroads carried increasing many people criticize the commer­
and sweets. endless. They listen to stories by cialism of Christmas, few people do 
Dutch group roamed through the numbers of people home for the the fire and decorate the tree with
The Christmas season retained cities. They were welcomed for holidays. Stores sold a greater lose sight of the fact that it is a
lights and millions of ornaments.

traces of old pagan fears as late as their songs and also for the volume and variety of goods. With special time to be spent with the 
All this is done in preparation for

the 18th Ct:ntury. To the supersti­the start of England's penny post, family, a day full of generosity that
blessing they were thought to give the arrival of Santa and his
tiou<; the shift from the old year to the first Christmas of all inspired in
the house they stopped at. If thney Christmas cards appeared in al­reindeer.
most every store and shop. men's hearts. 
or getting ... Just Jeans are just right. 
Stand out from the crowd. Toke off your pants. And jump into something_ very much you. Jump into Just Jeans. 

• 
~
•EANS J
T.M. 

I 
1 


SOUTH BEND. YOU DON'T STAND ACHANCE TIL YOU TAKE OFF YOUR PANTS. 
And iump into Just Jeans. 
We're tops in bottoms, because we dor't handle anything else. And we handle all kinds. All the top brands. All the latest styles. All the newest 


coJors. Plus the neatest tops and belts you'll find
-
anywhere. 
We know jeans. 
We know you. We know there's only one just you. You know there's only 
one Just Jeans. 
And you know ... 
at Christmas 
time ... for giving 

Scottsdale Mall • South Bend 
WE HAVE THEM ALL LEVI• 
OSHKOSH
• 

FADED GLORY
• 

VICEROY
• 

VISIONS
• 

LANDLUBBER
• 
H. D. LEE
• 

BRITTANIA
• 


ETC. 


------~~-----~---------­

Friday, December 10 1976 




CHRISCIMf\S CLAS_SlElEDS
r'nary blue­merry christmas and a happy new happy birthday and merry christmas dear world traveler, dear jgn jr., year ozone its too cold for s!~inny dipping and reflecting (i do that occassionally) 
dan 
the admiral is closed tor the season, on the past 2 yefars, i ask myself: ceil -remember -that swear box is yet christmas is great in stl tor "what would i be without you?" .. a full of tainted money! give it to a obvious reasons. hope to see you blissfully naive english major )
james kevin hogerty . -heres to there again.hogie, a pine cone picker, a hoops tainted charity . the send a pineap­
taking jock courses) who loves music by 'america' and holds hands wit\ 

· fanatic, a coach par excellance, a ple to law school fund. your roommate 
her nurd (plaid pants) boyfriend...

partyier to the first degree and most everything from inside scoops on
of all, a hell of a guy. hilppy 22nd to shylock rothschild. the ladies of the evening at farley love life to intelligent (yuk-yuk-yubirthday may you choke on frankensence, gag hall; course -prof. selections, you'vel&k. the wild bunch on xmas candy and squat on a xmas what beautiful bods to behold. 
always been good for something.

tree. you won't be getting any $5 tyrone will say, if you give her a call, 
bye, bye baby.

roxanna, valeria, slyvana, tulvia; xmas gift from beatty brows. "their waves will gladly be sold. 
love,

have yourself a bruni little christmas a pinch is a dime, but give them is carlotta coming this year? scrooge: pay that $5.00 or the some tiem, and at the right price a mai ghosts of christmas past, present little more vice 
x-mas gifts for the wild bunch andand future will do something nasty is yours to freely use." 

friends:

all over your bed. and she will conclude in a tone 
for the wild bunchsomewhat lewd, buddman-a handball win and taz­

janet, amy and crip, "i'll make you an offer you can't 
manian devil cartoons

merry, merry, merry...finals -refuse." 
hogie-some cozzmic rasp and some(fooled you, bet you thought i'd say graceful gentlemenchristmas) snow leo-more euphoria and less yawnsanyway, happy christmas and rnerry merry christmas! 

andy-a nyc ad job for seagrams

new year! to my wonderful, nice roomate, my 
ray -a burger king franchise in

love, cspt, baia, bev, staff. bizarre toady finky, spacey, science­
francemajor, in-love, attention-seeking, and friends

theresa, excellent (and that means superb) 
susie k-off-shore drilling in nj

funny you don't look irish. friends, including the one from 
donna-a streaker in grad school

wanna buy some love? amsterdam (oh, wow!) and everyone 
janet -an andy in washington

kevin else, too­joanne -unlimited tinted glasseshave an enjoyable holiday! Love, mark shields -a one way ticket to
theresa, "newsy" b. 
califomiathanks for making my first time so 

manus (bob b.) -a political orienta­

great. i'm going to miss you next tp "the great pretender" 
tion that makes sense

semester. a special merry christmas. en joy the 
laura-pre-filled out law schJol ;,ppli­

richard holdiays and being home again, 
cations (acceptances included.'

patty 448; even with mcguire jumping all over sue o'h -a french book
clem. the janitor -jimmy jr.• you. have a good tiem.
merry christmas and happy early kevin o'h -moe, larry and curly
birthday! thought you might like a christmas princess 
gary a. -stereo tennis racketspersonal..merry christmas!

jimbo 
ann p. -a perfect kilnme 
t. o'neil -some sleep
etch, p.s. you're too easy! 
fred h. -some tactjoyeux noel et bon nouve·l an. merei fred m. -a good semester offTo peter "3 e" sweeney, bob neff,

pour les quatre mois tantastique. 
teresa m. -a jump shot!

j'espere que tu as une bonne temps chris p <sorry abOut the last name carolina-a dope supplement
chris), denny basara, and anyone'a colorado. amour et pilix, barbara-skiing in kansaselse who got a kick out of womenjacques jenny -hockey grad school
being "inferior" to men, peace for 
mark k. -a pinball touch 

sue is sueper! the holidays. c. -and no
cathy books, vitamin c sue is sueper! 

coldsdear john (little bro.) and room­sue is sueper! 

terry r. -more t-shirtsmates (bob, jake, jose, paul andlove, george rabutt howeird -a new namedave) you too michael, andrew, jeff melissa & lisa-different serving line merry xmas liz ray, and mike .. oh and wim,

to starbabies, positionsgood tuck on finals gentlemen and~ssie mackin, doc sleepy, and mary -more smiles
have a merry merry christmas.
gmgersnaps. ho ho! 
the observer and south dining halls

don't worry n.d. will be the same
santa claus staffs -patience award for puttingafter break. things never change. 
up with me

keiren donovan: with .... love, barb from "a new york state of mind"what's up, doc? wishir·g. you the 
isn't it a long way home?

best of everything .. we'll miss you, happy christmas to all those who 
kerry-k. deserve it and those that have fun. 
dear dakota kid,but t.h. can still drop dead.

love, di, ml, ging, ja and icki. 
wherever you roam ( or build your cabin), IJe sure to subscribe to the88­mike, sorry i yelled, but i'm not washington po~t so you · -~an read

stupid.... i'll miss your spine (i know you have 
----"'"----::....._ _________ some good columns and of·course,
one) will you miss my elbo? have a the personals.
tom, very merry. love, your christmas joy. tt-e capital kid
wishing you a merry christmas with love and good luck on the test 
tomorrow! merry christmas to you know who to chris: an unbreakable car genny 
and a promise that i be there merry christmas anytime you ask mlf to uncle charlie and all tt>e kids, 
djb merry christmas 
dear steady, your second cousin 
happy christmas to gene, rick, de has the president 
lobby, terrie, tim • candy, tobbie, and de has the post; to duncan and pumpkin, the dog, kerie, beth, deggy, moon­bur de doesn't have the one merry christmas er,mark, patty, met. mel's sister, who i miss the most 
the typist patty's brother, paul s., mary ann, love, nancy, barb, margie, and age. to mom & dad: of love, and your steady to'ssci.'cy,'chelle, 'cia, • ry, and 'ty 
where are you age??? thanks for everything. p.s. maybe i should switch back to from lyons --drew to ciel: the same. english. we 'sh you a 'ry 'stmas 
to the dumb and spastic (our great we 'sh you a 'ry 'stmas 
hey lgfn j-floor-mates): merry christmas from to dar, j.d., gat·or, m.g.m., bill w, we 'sh you a 'ry 'stmas roses can tre absurder. jay betty, robin,
be white ellen, w, wolfie, and a 'py •w 'r. and so can snow to the to'n: a torch and a beer (you est~lle, al, john c, mike p, coops, the boys at holy cross merry xmas, happy new year wanted a girl maybe?) steve b, bill g, lee ann, basil, paul c, 
and tots of ho, ho, ho to pat: warm pineapple. mike c, jerry, bernie, mike o'd, de. b. tdft to dan and mary: buena suerte. scott b, paul k, mary om, bev, crank, see you at tuesday's game. to bob and kathy: good tuck. valdo, ron h,. mike carini, mike m, your staring admirer i love beagles!!! to everything that worked: thanks. maureen m, pat, tom d, mary c, 
p.s. have a fantastic christmas! have a merry xmas but use an to the one or two things that didn't: mere, tim (em, chip casey, susie, electric mixer!! guess that one, huh? billy shannon, cindy, janie. collette, 
Jim S. pure lead to the night staffs and delivery john and maureen r, bro. john, people: much appreciation stevie, therese, and last but never
have a merry christmas and don't forget your new year's ki!;s. 
season •s greetings from the south to everyone i left out: tough least pic and schteve. to all of your bend ranch thanks for making the first hafl of 
hey delis morales 
margarita garcia the senior year a huge success. in merry christmas . this is your year for firsts.. the name off all the seniors have a first year at notre dame. merry christmas and lets see if we
you better not do anythin<J mean or 
bad·· i'm watching! 
first experience with frostbite can break even nest semester. love, your kris kringle first time in indiana and michigan thanks again, first try at submarine sandwichs bob wis, well, here is another first... p.s. sorry if I missed any body i h!Jpe you get new slippers for 
first observer personal classified ad. chnstmas. those ping things have 
merry christmas dear janet, the local artist i know you'll rest easier and longergot to go. thanks for everything. 
woody-d.v. fan club next semester. however, will the punkin-plants survive the darkness? Come seein' how this is a christmas & visit some time. i'll buy you some
happy birthday, too, christine. how about dinner on the 16th? you doing 
personal, i guess i should wish you a fresca. merry christmas! anything afterwards? be my "babes 
merry christmas. but you know me, love, your roomie in toyland"--i'm different. i decided to send you a love, keete 
christmas personal and not say ms. mary o'm merry christmas so this will be the there are 49 bottles of beer on the merry christmas to the observer 
only christmas personal that's not wall-oh the intellectual discussion typists. relly a christmas persoanal. there­we could have after drinking them gwen, karen, mary ann, rusty, kitty, 
tore "happy st. patty's day!" all! your passionate admirer forever the kid p.s. merry christmas
sue, mel, kathy, joan, anne, don nancy, stephanie, morey, mary, and terri: Thanks for a great semester. to stop line of the year: to all my friends at campus ministry merry christmas to n.d. from the 
you may be sloppy, but you're the 
permanent residents of darby's

spec1al thanks to the night control­merry christmas 
best. keep on singing. mlf place
lers, don, karen, morey and terri. 
an ardent fan see you at the party. -m<~rtha. 
i wish we were going home tor the darby o'gill, father griffin, jean, merry ch~istmas to jan manzi. good 
smw, holdiays but instead know that my eileen, tom, richard, sharpn, mike, luck on fmals!! thoughts and wishes are with you. stanley, jo ann, jan, arldy, tom,
can i come see your christmas tree ­merry christmas "831" dan have a great christmas and i can't eddie, greg, tim, mike, mom, mark,
lo~e. kris k. 
wait to celebrate the new year -even larry, Iuigi, mary, franz, lius, and­
ivan, i'm glad santa can't make 
if it will be late. rea, disho, hosea, mary, mike, tony,mickey -i guess i really am a boring more of you because you'd be on dave, leigh, mary
person, because all i can tt1ink of to love martha, greg,
everyone's list! you're first on mike, mary, bear (weird
kiddo teddy
say is merry christmas!!w,th love. ______.....,_....-::, ____....,;:_
mine. merry christmas! kevin)mml "chief"
dearest fran,$ dear sue, deb and chris, loving you is pure xtc it sure has been fun: going to the jim, rich, john, and joe oh'gill 
to the occupants of 103 walsh: 
bars, "shopping around," "going
very lucky ted i hope all of you have a safe trip bananas,'' going up and down in thehome, a merry christmas and a good
blanket, elevator, going out all night (some­
time with family and friends. times as elkhart! l
far as and so worth spoiling. generally going crazy. but now pillow patty ann: we're going away and we all will 
i enjoy spoiling, because you're merry christmas 
miss you all a whole tog. see you in jeffy and cindy, september (we'll have to try that
love, jimmie mcmahon 
one). 
but i will not squawk; temans third main west hall sure love it is the season of the christ Tlas dove looks nice! 
your pimps were low, 
deb, shannon and margie not a hawk. 
dear jeanne b.
sincerely, "429" dear dakota, for openers, here's a riddle: what 
would i be today without you (and the captain .. do i have in common with a weather dear bonnie p. the snap bakes and 
sew happy that we'll see e.3ch other man? answer: we're both experts leg up down) thanks for all the help. soon ·· for the mary-est christmas at predicting the unpredictable!!! i vow not to go wild at the jap market and happiest new year ever. you're start laughing. this is only the or even go near the watergate. see 
wonderful. • you in georgetown,
beginning. 176-fox . . . the one.who knows you best 
love, 
'-'-----~oJ,...._ ______ _ 
margie 

to the ing and suberb male in the senior class (thats tim cawley, obviously) merry christmas! 
love, a secret admirer 
angel, no personal for me...no valentine for you. oh well, merry christmas anyway. 
john 
secret admirer (t.h.w. t.m.) third rate romance, low rent rendes­vous? the affair is on. 
t.c. 
merry christmas to peg, beth and deb, with love from your 4th roomate 
toothpaste queen, merry christmas doesn't quite say enough-
love, ruthea 
kate­suite dreams dec. 16 and dec. 24, leo 
katebaby, merry christmas, thanks tor listen­ing! I<JVe, 
merry christmas and a very new year to all former and presen observu friends. 
I.g. i hope it shoes in conn. on mas! 
lum, have a merry break and a christmas. 
norma what a cutie you are. love you. merry beauty. 
merry christmas mom, dad, jen an ted, love, reenie bob 
merry christmas fred. from africa with love, camille w .., • .rm••n 
merry christmas timothy! 
Antonia, form the sands to the snows, we hav loved much. i see more to come. 
h.a.s. ii 
to mom, merry christmas martha 
my regal zonophone: do not open your heart until christ­mas. a christmas camel 
p.s. walpurg is repented 
once upon a time there was a girl wM liked to get personals. she had friend who liked to writhe them "gold" tees, ice, milwaukee, and even a limverick made it into ads. but now christmas has and the friend has run out of things to say. so the ony thing left merry christmas. hope the good times continue. 
merry christmas to you too sharon. by the way i never got a birth kiss. 
jan and johnn h-r-'s Y--r v-ry -wn p-rs-n-1. h-v-y. -v-r h-d. f-m-n-1 s-sp-e--n? 
M-rry rhlr-strm.s• kevin & richard 
cabin members: happy holidays and all that non sense. next semester we can get lubes, dubes, and beers until we al flunk out. 
pud, stud & dud thanks for the cake, but where the intercoms go? p.s., leave 
christmas in your eyes: the first time ever my wish true! but, how was i to know? 
griff, , r;nerry ch~istmas 

Christmas traditions 
by Karen Hinks Staff Reporter 
A man dressed in a red fur­trimmed suit stands on a busy downtown street corner ringing bells for the Salvation Army hailing people to throw in loose change. Chilled shopper slush through snowy sidewalks, watch their breath, knowing they still have a thousand gifts yet to buy. "Jingle Bells" and "Deck the Halls" resound from loud speakers. Department store windows neatly decorated with gold and silver are ladened with signs beckoning shop­pers to "Sales" and the all-too­familiar "Fourteen Shopping Days Before Christmas.'' 
This is the tradition of Christmas practiced by thousands of people in the United States today. 
In its basic character however, Christmas remains deeply religious in spite of the secular festivities that have grown up around it. Christians around the world never forget that the day commemorates the miraculous birth of a baby. 
The season brings to mind an infant born in a manger, visited by wise men and shepherds who all brings gifts to his side. 
Since that time the event has been elegantly celebated and even today, the veneration is deeply rooted in traditions dating back to the 350 A.D. 
Until 350 A.D., when Pope Julius I proclaimed December 25 as the date of the Natvity, almost every month in the year had, at one time or another, been named as the likely date of Christ's birth. Christ­
ians celebrated his birth in season­
al tradition which crosscut a num­
ber of cultures. 
During the Winter Solstice, the ancients performed rites to aid their god Marduk in his struggles against the forces of chaos. The Greek god Zeus began his battle against Kronos (Time). 
As the years went on, Christians slowly absorbed the old customs of the ancients and combined them with Christian meaning. 
Two saints from the fourth century are honored during the Christmas season. St. Nicholas on December 6 in Holland and St. Lucy on Dec. 13 in Sweden. 
St. Nicholas is one of the most popular saints of the Christian Church. He is the patron saint of sailors, travelers, bakers, mer­chants and children. Very little is known about St. Nicholas' life except that he was Bishop of Myra in Lycia, on the coast of Asia Minor. Many miracles are credited to him. In Germany, Switzerland, the Netherlands and Belgium, men in bishop's robes pose as St. Nicholas. They visit children, urge them to be good, and give them gifts. The custom is believed to have originated in the legend that St. Nicholas gave gold to three girls who did not have dowries and could not get married. 
The Dutch brought the "visit of St. Nicholas" to America. The visit of Santa Claus came from this custom, and was made famous by Clement C. Moore's "T'was the Night Before Christmas." The name Santa Claus comes from Sinterklaas which is Dutch for St. 
Nick. 
St. Lucy, who died in 304, was a devout Sicilian girl who made a vow of chastity. Her rejected suitor denounced her as a Christian, and Diocletian soldiers killed her. Her feast on Dec. 13 is celebrated with blazing candles. 
The legend of King Arthur and his Round Table is deeply rooted in the Christmas tradition. The leg­end is told that on Christmas day the people of England gathered together and prayed to God to send a sign to show the people who would be the next ruler. Arthur sighted a sword placed firmly in an anvil and believed to have been placed there permanently. He reached down and pulled out the sword. From that day forward, the people officially declared him the rightful ruler to the English throne. 
Gift-giving at Christmas time is viewed as one of the most impor­tant and special ways of expressing the feeling of the season. The giving of gifts on New Year's Day and on Christmas was customary by the 13th century. Kings and nobles held to a scale of presents, usually money, for those in their retinue, but the gifts they exchang­ed themselves were often acts of displaying. 
Today, evergreen trees have become an integral part of the Christmas decor in any home. Families buy them from roadside stands or go out into the woods to chop them down. The smell of spruce or pine is heartily wel­comed. According to legend, the Lutherans under Martin Luther, 
(continued on page 20) Following a short ceremony by Rev. Robert Griffin, the Community Christmas lree was officially "lit" last night at 11:00 p.m. About 100 students gathered outside LaFortune to view the event and hear the Glee Club perform several carols. After the lighting of the tree, the students were invited to Darby's Place for eggnog and cookies. [Photo by Jim Hofman.] 




The Whole Observer Staff: 
NIGHT EDITORS: Joe Bauer, Bob Brink, John Calcutt, Debbie Dahrling, Martha 
Fanning, Marti Hogan, Tom O'Neil, Dan Sanchez, Paul Shappler, Chris Smith 
ASST. NIGHT EDITORS: Jack D'Aurora, Frank Kebe, Katie Kerwin, Rosemary 
Mills, Steve Odland, Leigh Tunakan,Paula Carroll 
LAYOUT STAFF: Paul Snappier, Brian Doyle,. Drew Bauer, Rosemary Mills, Marti 
Hogan Barry Tillis, Cindy McKie!, Cathy Kustner, Barb McGrath, Dan Mueleman, 
Theresa Richeson, John Calcutt, Fred Kuntinger, Paula Carroll, Roseanne Wallace 
DAY EDITORS: Maureen O'Brien, Mary Pat Tarpey, Joe Gill, Mary Mungovan, 
Jean Powey 
COPY READERS: Barbara Beitenstein, Tom Byrne, Pat Cole, Katie Kerwin, Barbara Lang henry, Cathy Nolan 
FEATURES: Dom Salemi, Carolina, David0'Keefe1 Scott Appl~by,Jim Coyne,Anna ·. Monardo, Father Robert Griffin, Father Bill Toohey, Lisa Moore; Nrcholas Durso, Drew J. Bauer, Christie Herlihy,Gregg Bangs,Chris Smith 
EDITORIALS: Mike Richter, Chris Smith, John Murphy, Drew Bauer, Jerry Hickey, Joe Gill, John Zygmunt, Robert Jacques, John Nilles 
SPORTS: Ray O'Brien, Paul Stevenson, Ted Robinson, Monte Towle, Chip Spina, Tom Powanda, Tony Pace, Morey Blinder, Greg Solman, Debbie Dahrling, Win Palmer, Bernie O'Brien, Tim Bourret, Tom Desmond, Leo Latz, Bob Keen , Kim Kelly, Karen Chiames, Dave Batton, Jeff Carpenter, John Stenson,Bob Hull, Steve Orsini, Pete Johnson, Val Zurblis, Barb Langhenry, Eileen O'Grady 
TYPISTS: Gwen Coleman, Karen Chiames, Mary Ann Keefe, Rusty Espinosa, Kitty Conklin, Susan Shellenbarger, MeiCeleste,Kathy Egbert, Joan Martel, Don Roos, Morey Blinder, Nancy Cueroni, Stephanie Urillo, Mary McCormick, Leigh Tunakan, lt'OUTJCAL WRITERS AND STAFF:Patrick Cole, Barbara Breitenstein, Katie Kerwin, Tim ()'Reiley, Vincent Moschella, Mark Friedan, laura Campbell, leo Hansen, Debra Krilich, Bob Brennan 
Anne Giere  ·  
NIGHT CONTROLLERS:  Martha Fanning,  Karen Chiames,  Don  Roos,  Morey  
Blinder, Terri Harlan  

PHOTOGRAPHERS: Joe Burns, Janet Carney Tony Chifari, Paul Clevenger; Anne Frazel, leo Hansen, Jim Hofman, Debra Krilich, Mark Muench, Dominic Yocius 
ADVERTISING: Steve Bonomo, Tony Chavez, Mary O'Meara, Mike Miller, Beverly O'Connell, John Ricotta, Pat Russell, Tom Walrath 
SENIOR STAFF REPORTERS: Barbara Breitenstein, Tom Byrne,Pat Cole, Martha Fanning, Katie Kerwin, Barbara Langhenry, Mary Mungovan, Mary Pat Tarpey 
REPORTERS: Marian Ulicny, Alicia Denefe, Tom Eder, Kate Flynn, Paul Hess, Kevin Boyle, Tom Westphal, Joe Slovinec, Kevin Walsh, Dave Rumbach, Mary Ann Moorman, St€·phan Kotz, Mark Lambert,' Theresa Rebeck, Dave Kavanaugh, Michael Lewis, Bill Bloriano, John Ferroli, Pete Newell, Kevin Corman, Steve Gray, Drew Bauer, Joe Straub, Gerry Delgado, Rick Gregoire, Bob Varettoni, Bob Keen, Mike Shields, Tim Boyle, Barney Stiegal, Patti Ruocco, Ed Rosini, John Delaney, Mary Rukavina, Ann Barnard, Ed Marshaii,Bob Maier, jay Tidmarsh, John O'Donnell, Kevin Mclean, Frani Bauer, Chuck Biladeau, Peter Arndt, Jim Kopp, Mark Hutton, Matt Kane, David Beno, Cathy Nolan, Kevin Witasick; Curtis Wesselyn, Terri Blazi, Mike Moses, Chris Smith, Maureen Flynn, Jim Hershey~ jean Powley, Usa Morel, Beth Pets.i, Jim Bowler, Neal MQngold, Tom Trozzolo, Sue Carey, Mike Kenahan, Sue Lang, John DeCoursey, Ed Cauvreau, Nick DiCiovine, Chris Datzman, Missy Hennebel"ger,Mary Ann Layden, Virginia McCowan; David O'Keefe, Annette Garcia, Steve Simmerman, KellyAnn Foos, Karen Sikorski, Judy Meehan, Peggy Schumaker, Ellen O'leary, Joe LaCosta, Maureen O'Brien, John Simari, Dan l'vleuleman, Tom McGrath, Kathy McEntee, Marty Standiford, Mary Ann Tighe, Kathy Mills, Craig Lombardi. Joe Gill, Gregg Bangs, Peter O'Brten, Greg Besio, Mike Humpal, Anne Bachle,Sue Ballman, Theresa Cosiano; Petti Doyle, Mary Rukavina; Donna Brndt, Lucy McVaY; Honey McHugh,. Debbie Dahrling, Beth Welch,, Paula Carroll; Maria Frigyesi, Mary Pinard, Margie lrr, Cathy Cowhey, louise Enyedy, Karen Hinks, Michelle Leahy, Lillian Solar, Eileen Lynch, Pat Pavne, Jean Powley, Patti Trocco, Denisa Lynk, Carolina Casey, Kathy Horgan 
DELIVERY AND CIRCULATION: Don Grochocinski, Ed Keaveny, John Murphy, Matt Retter, J.amie Stephens, Mark Trocchi, Tony Chavez 
ARTISTS: Pam Butterworth, Maureen Sajbel, Eric Walton 
ADMINISTRA fiVE ASSIST ANT: Ceil Popovich 

The SENIOR BAR MANAGERS 
White Will be accepting applications House for next year's managerial Inn 
sitions effective registration day of second semester. SEE NOTICE IN FIRST OBSERVER ISSUE. 
ROCK & ROLL WITH THE BEST BANDS IN TH MIDWEST NITELY (Except Tues) THIS WEEK: SHATTER STAR 
The White House Inn 683-9842 2839 No. 51th St. Niles 
Take U.S. 31 to Niles, North on 51, 3 miles. 











