

Mentalist Kreskin amazes crowd with 'power of suggestion' show 

un1versity of noire dame sl m:1ry s college Vol. X No. 121 .... Thursday, April 22, 1976 
Housing contract return increases 

'Back to campus' trend exhibited 
by Frank Tennant ents want to stay. Fr. Mulcahy and fhe house at 1021 DeMaudc cost oft'ice map. are in a state ot urban states that the students cannot be Staff Reporter Darlene Palma, student director of $330 a month with utilities in 1974. decay. sued for living there. This serves off-campus housing gave their Now it rents for $300 a month plus Because they look for the least to weaken the amendment but 
" No one will be forced off-cam­views on this. utilities. A house at 1023 DeMaude expensive housing. these areas arc owners arc reluctant to take the pus this year." Director of Student Mulcahy noted the number of rented for $360 with utilities in only desirable to student or low risk. Housing, Fr. John Mulcahy C.S.C. students remaining on campus has 1974 and now rents for $300 income families. In these three announcl·d after the April IS continued to rise over the last three without utilities. areas property values are down Overcrowding on Campusdeadline for renewing residence years. This keeps with the national The house at 1016 Lincolnway with the owners reluctant to keep hall room contracts. trend examined by the Wall Street West went up $50 from $250 in up the properties. As property 
Mulcahy said 4,302 students .Journal in a recent article. 1974 to $300 now and utilities were values dropped. the crime rate The back to campus movement turned in their cards this year, an dropped. These houses are all went up in areas 10, 6 and 19. The will not cause any problems on
Speaking about Notre lJamc in

increase of exactly 200 over last rated excellent by the Off-Campus possibility of crime discourages a campus next year according to
particular. Mulcahy said students 

year. With the increase Mulcahy Housing office and show how costs student, especially a woman, who Mulcahy. He is tempted to
arc finding that the rules are not as

remarked that he is short approx­have risen with inflation. has the option of living on campus. overcrowd in one hall but that is
opprcsive as they had seemed to

imately 23 beds in the women's The problem of finding a house only to correct an imbalance be­
studcntsthree years ago. "Stud­

dorms and 99 in the men's. "But South Bend trends that is not in a declining neighbor­tween classes.
ents can live within the rules and

this is just like being even," he hood is compounded by the Harter "Alumni is the only hall with a
still enjoy themselves," he said.

added. Several general trends occuring Heights Amendment, passed last great imbalance between the soph­
Mulcahy also believes it is more expensive to live off-campus and

It is possible to have a shortage in the city of South Bend also deter year. The amendment restricts omore and other classes," said now and not when school begins that this a major factor. students from moving off campus. students from living in certain Mulcahy. An imbalance is created next year because certain ligures In the latest census. South Bend areas by a redefinition of the term when a hall has a fat class. A class 
Darlene Palma agrees expense IS

arc not complete. Mulcahy said it has experienced negative popula­residential housing. This cuts of I00 sophomores means that only 
a major reason for the back to

always works like this. Among the tion gro.wth. Concurrent with this down the options of housing avail­40 freshmen could be taken into the 
campus movement. When you

number who turned in cards arc drop is an increase in rental able to students. hall. 
figure in utilities with rent and

students who will be chosen as property. The areas with the The university lease offers a way Should the back to campus 
compare it to room and board on

resident assistants. ·'They could largest concentrations of student to get around the amendment with movement persist, there is a possi­
campus, she said it is usually

cut the number down anywhere housing show the greatest decline. a clause that puts the responsibility bility of having trouble finding
cheaper to live on campus.

from SO to 100." he observed. It was said that these areas, 10, 6, on the owner if he rents restricted room for students on campus in 
The days of finding something

Mulcahy noted the normal attri­and 19 on the off-campus housing housing to students. The clause future years.
cheaper than the university off­tion over the summer reduces the campus are gone. Campus Viewnumber. Some students decide to apartments charge $75 a month 

Volunteer participants praise 
move off-campus late while others plus utilities and are relative towithdraw from school or transfer to living on campus. If a student paysother schools. Mulcahy said he less than the apartments, which 

Engineering values seminar
was short last year yet managed to means finding a house where hetake 60 students in from the 
pays $70 or less plus utilities a by James Flahaven School's proposal in response to a well."
waiting list to move on campus. 
month, he can save money. Staff Reporter mandate from the university's Aca­Dean Joseph Hogan, head of the
·'There is no doubt that the 
demic Council requiring all stu­college of Engineering. said theoverflow will dissappear," he stat• dents graduating after 1977 to take real test would be when faculty anded. 
Energy Costs 

A values seminar to promote a senior values seminar. Each students have to become involved.
"It will cost the students who 
interaction between faculty and college in the university is develop­He said, "The task will be moredecide to move off late," he seniors on problems of public ing its own values seminar. difficult as more students andwarned. Anyone who turned in a A combination of higher operat­policy has generally re(;cived praise According to Fiore, what makes teachers who are not volunteerscard and then decides to move ing costs and inflation makes living from Engineering school volun­the Engineering values seminar become involved." Fiore explain­off-campus forfeits the $50 room in town more expensive than on teers taking part in the program. unique is its extensively developed ed that some Engineering profes­deposit. campus. Energy costs are the 
Dr. John Lucey, associate profes­format. sors would be uncomfortable teach­A student who did not turn in a primary part. Palma said even with sor of Architecture and Dr. Thomas The course began with three ing out of their speciality.
contract and wishes to remain on a low rent students must pay Theis, assistant professor of Civil sessions where guest speakers Senior Dierkes saw another prob­campus will be put on the waiting telephone. gas, electricity and wat­Enginering taught two one-credit presented ethical dilemmas that lem. "Just the fact that the values list. They will be given a bed after er bills. Due to the energy crisis, hour sections of eighteen stu­would lend to later discuss.ion seminar is mandatory will turn all those who turned in cards arc costs have risen greatly while some dents. between faculty and students. Last some people off." said ·Dierkes. 
placed. Mulcahy said, 'It would owners have complained that stud-. 
According to Theis, "Initial feed­Semester's guest speakers includ­"The key," said Fiore, "is the 
not he fair to give them beds when ents arc not conservative of energy. 
back from the students was ex­ed Dr. Donald Kommers, director interest of the faculty members. If they missed the deadline due to They claim their utility bills are too tremely enthusiatic." Dr. Nicholas of Notre Dame center for Civil the professor puts-in time and their own fault." He added that high. This has lead almost all Fiore, who headed the faculty Rights, Thomas Murrin, president discusses ideas freely then the there arc not many cases like this owners to stop paying utilities. 
committee that created the semi­of the Public Systems Company, students will do their part." Fiore since there is enough publicity. In conjunction with dropping 
nar, agreed student response was and Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, said he was sure that the whole This year there are only about a utilities, many owners are forced to "surprisingly good". However, C. S.C. A.lso a master list of 15 Engineering faculty, even those 
dozen whereas three years ago, the 
raise rents because of increases in both Theis and Fiore cautioned suggested topics was drawn up. who might not wish to participatefirst year housing cards were used, · the cost of living and nsmg about placing too much emphasis from which faculty decided what in the program, would do their best 
there were about 70. operating expenses. In other cases on initial comments because all would be discussed in the remain­if the Academic Council decides to owners have lowered rents and those participating were volun­ing classes. make values seminars mandatory. dropped utilities. teers. Senior Mark Dierkes, who took Student Ergo, who agrees the 
Back to campus Houses owned by Joseph Gatto While the Engineering values part in the program, stated that he faculty will be the key to thesuccess are an example. A house at 311 N. seminar was an elective last semes­was impressed both with the of the seminar, suggests professors 
The figures show more students Cushing rented for $240 a month ter, it is a pilot course for a future students and the faculty. Another should still be picked voluntarily, want to remain on campus. There with utilities in 1975 and now rents university-wide undergraduate re­senior, Mike Ergo added, "It was a even if students are required to arc numerous reasons why stud-for $300 a month plus utilities. quirement. This is the Engineering good idea and it was structured participate. 
Karl J. Blette Staff Reporter 

The Amazing Kreskin lived up to his name last night in a three-hour performance before an o• ~rtlow crowd in Washington Hall.. 
The high point of the program came as Krcskin used over thirty volunteers from the aw:iience in a demonstration to expose the idea of hypnosis as an "atrocious lie." 
"Anything which can be done under what is said to by hypnosis can be done without it." Kreskin said. He explained that people are suggestible at any time and that the power of suggestion can be used to make them perform as if they were hypnotized. 
The mentalist used the power of suggestion to cause his subjects to feel alternately hot and cold. to make them u~ablc to open their eyes, and to prompt them to jump out of their scats as if they had felt pinched. 
Brad Trenary, a Junior in Mor­eau Seminary· and a particularly suggestible subject of Kreskin, found himself unable to light a cigarette and. when he finally could. discovered that it tasted like "cas· tor oil. benzene and grease.'· 
Trenary explained, "My arm just locked. I couldn't move it up to my mouth.'' He was unable to drop the cigarette from his hand, or move his foot from the floor after he stamped the cigarette out. 
Other subjects forgot their names, uncontrollably flapped their hands in the air and sang an off-key "Happy Birthday" to the performer on cue. 
Kreskin, a frequent quest of Johnny Carson, Merv Griffin and Mike Douglas, does not call himself a "mind reader." but rather a "mentalist." He is admittedly a showman. and combines "scientif­ic principles" of extra-sensory perception and deftly executed trickery in his act. 
He began by taking three rings from members of the audience and linking them together. He later pulled the rings apart, making an audible "snap" and returned them to their owners. 
The performer peppered his act with jokes and references to the Carson show while he was contin­ually interrupted by applause and laughter. 
Krcskin performed a popular trick when he gave his paycheck to four members of the audience and had them hide it while he left the room. He then had to find it by "receiving thoughts" from those who had hid it. 
Occasionally Kreskin has had to forfeit his paycheck because he has not found it in time, a stipulation of the act. Last night. however. he readily found it under a trapdoor in the stage which he hurt his back lifting. 

He also demonstrated a card trick in which he named the cards which volunteers had chosen from a deck. 
In describing a pinochle game, which he had played yesterday aftprnoon with Father Hesburgh and an unnamed trustee, Kreskin quipped. "I was very succussful-­you're now looking at the new owner of Notre Dame. 
Kreskin ended his three-hour long act by expressing his difficulty in saying goodbye. and was given a thunderous, five-minute standing ovation. 

the observer Thursday, April 22, 1976 
~--News Briefs--­
t========================lntemational Women's lib -French style 
PARIS -France named its first woman general today: Valerie Andre, 54-year-old doctor, parachutist and helicopter pilot with more experience under fire than many of the male officers of her generation in Western Europe. 

t=:=========================National , 
Plastic bottles unsafe 
WASHINGTON-The Natural Resources Defense Council, charging plastic beer and pop bottles may be unsafe, brought suit yesterday in an effort to get the government to reverse its approval of the containers. The council said in a report plastic bottles waste energy, increase litter, leach chemicals of unknown safety and produce dangerous gydrogen cyanide gas when improperly burned. 
.,_-On Campus Toda~/-........ 
12:15 pm --lecture, engineers from wright-patterson air force base, dayton, ohio, will discuss development in the aerospace field, sponsored by air force rotc, room 303, eng. bldg. 
3:30pm --demonstration, the tea ceremony with talk on the zen buddhist koan, sponsored by asien studies commission and dept. of international studies, library lounge. 
-t pm 

--lecture, "behavioral effects of prior traumatic aversive simulation: research and theory" by victor lupe, graduate student, n.d., sponsored by psych. dept, room 119 haggar hall. 
--seminar, "spectrascopic and magnetic circular dichroism studies of crystalline parphyrins" by clayton 
w. jacobsen, n.d., sponsored by radiation laboratory, conference room, radiation research building. 


--evensong vespers, log chapel. 
--film, "amarcord", sponsored by cultural arts com­mission, eng. aud. --humanities program, new health professionals: 
physicians' assistans, midwives, nurses, etc., spon­sored by indiana committee for humanities, for information call charles geoffrien, 284-5388.  
8 pm  --concert, tony orlando and down, ace.  
8 pm  --lecture, "fundamentals of fire" by dr. a murty kanury, n.d., sponsored by aerospace and mechanical engineering dept., room 303, eng. building.  
8pm  --thomas mcavey lecture series, "property, monopolies and shakespeare's richard II" by j.h. yexter, yale univPrsity, sponsored by history dept., library aud.  
12 am  --album hour, wsnd 640 am.  
12:15 am  --nocturne night fligl:tt, the best in progressive rock, jazz and blues, tonight's host: brian shanahan wsnd 88.9 fm.  


Ombudsman are soliciting nominations for award 
The Umbudsman Advisory Bo­a· ,OAB) is soliciting nominations tu<" the second annual Ombudsman Award. Forms and further details are available on the second floor of LaFortune. All nominations are due Tues., Apr. 27 by 5 p.m. in the Ombudsman office. 
The Or.1budsman Award is in­tended to recognize an individual whose efforts and contributions in non-academic endeavors exceed 

(*The Observer1 
Night Editor -Bob Brink 

~~~~p~irght Editor -Paul 
Layout . Claire McCarthy, 
Laura Beth Hart 

Copy Readers -Mike Villani, 
Barb Lang henry 

Day Editor _ Mary Mungovan 
Editorials-Jim Stevens 

Features -Kareem Abdul 
0' Rei ley 

Sports -Fred 'nerd' Herbst, 
Ray O'Brien 

the norm, and whose ability to work 
'th h · b d t'

WI ot ers 1s eyon ques 10n. 
comm~nity which realizes and ~e­als w1th the needs of all 1ts members. 
The OAB is opening up nomina­tions to the entire campus com­munity in addition to over 100 requested recommendations from various administrative, staff and 
·student sources. 

The OAB stated that with the
participation and cooperation of the 



Convertible production ends, could become collectors item 
DETROIT AP-With all the hoopla that traditionally accompan­ies the introduction of a new model, the last U .S.-built convertible roll­ed off the assembly line yesterday, ending a 74-year era of American ragtops, of cruising down the avenue with the wind whipping through your hair. 
"Like the running board and the rumble seat, the convertible is an item which history has passed by,'' Cadillac General Manager Edward 
C. Kennard said. 
The $11,049 white Cadillac Eldo­rado, piloted by Kennard, was the 200th "Last of the Convertibles" built by Cadillac. The car is to be kept by General Motors ''for historical purposes," he said. 
The other 199-each emblazoned with a plaque saying "This 1976 Fleetwood Eldorado is one of the last 200 identical U.S. convertibles produced"-have been sold in a lottery among Cadillac's 1,600 dealersh,ips. 
Kennard, accompanied in the front seat by Detroit Mayor Cole-
Cadillac general .manufacturing manager, wheeled the car off the line amid balloons, banners and employes dressed in jackets and T-shirts proclaiming they worked 
Tau Beta Pi initiates eleven 

Eleven Notre Dame students have been initiated into the Tau 
'Beta Pi Association, the national engineering honor society, and officers for the Indiana Gamma Chapter have been elected. 
New members James Bibby, Robert Davis, Robert Fratti, Ann Greenburg, James Hensler, Mich­ael Laird. James MacDuff, Paul Miller, Jane Short, James Smith and J. Timothy Walsh were instal­led April 8. 
New officers assumed duties last Wednesday. They are Charles Patton, president; William Barrett,' vir('-president; Richard Greenwell '¥alter Bak, secretaries; James treasurer; Jane Short, cata­.:r; and Gregory Schuster, 
senior JEC representative. 
Tau Beta Pi, which has over 190,000 members in 171 college chapters, was installed at Notre Dame in 1961. 
Carter opens campaign HQ 

The grand opening of Jimmy Carter's South Bend campaign 
on the last soft top. the option ot a :-un wut. 
Several hundred production and Production was limited to 14,000 office workers at the Cadillac this year because the makers of the complex cheered as the car's folding tops went out of business engine roared to life and the and Cadillac bought the remaining vehicle crept a few feet under its stock. own power. "If we had erwugh tops to make 
"It's great to be part of history, 20,000 we could have sold them," especially since the car will be Kennard said. going to a museum," said Ray His prediction earlier this year Mikula, a production line worker that the final soft-tops would who installed the hood on the final become "collector's items" is ap­convertible. Other workers agreed. parently coming true. Some deal­Some just shrugged their shoul­ers have offered to pay as much as ders. $2,000 over the cost for the 
After reaching a zenith in popu­vehicles. larity after World War II the appeal f--------------, 
man Young and H. B. Brawner, r-------------. 
of convertibles began eroding in the mid-60s. Air conditioning, fast freeway driving and federal rollov­er safety standards contributed to it demise, industry officials say. 
American Motors dropped them in 1968, followed by Chrysler in 1971 and Ford Motor Co. in 1973. GM's Chevrolet, Pontiac, Buick and Oldsmobile divisions phased them out in the 1975 model year, leaving only Cadillac buyers with 
The Observer is published llf\onday through Friday and ~o~~eekly during the SUITlTiet" session, except during the exams and vacation periods. The Obserwr is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Darre and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $18 ($10 per semester) fro'l1 The Obserwr, Box Q, Notre Darre, Indiana 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Darre, IN 46556. 
THE 
RESUME PLACE 2 5 8 1/2 X 1 1 
Ri\(; BOND 
Only $2.55 



insly·prints 

203 N. MAIN SO.BEND, IND 
289-6977 


"LADIES' NIGHT, 

TUESDAY & THURSDAY DANCE THIS WEEKEND TO SOUTH SHORE MICHIGAN'S TOP ROCK NIGHT CLUB!




i41GfiiY's 
22 WUt AISUnmt • M"HAWAKA , 
Cinema '76 presents: 
FREDERICO FELLINI'S 


HAMARCORD" 
TONIGHT Engineering Auditorium 7 & 10 p.m. $1 
_ 

headquarters, at 310 N. Michigan, -----------------­
will be held on Tues., Apr.27, at f BULLA SHED --f 
7:30. The public is invited to help t J 
~~~~~;r~a~~aex:r~~:~/ict~~ i~~~~ ·, EVERY 0 NE WELCOMEn 
information, call Paul Faldute, ' ..,
t t
3460, or Sally Beckman, 4-4380. 
The individual must be concerned Music departmentt THIS FRIDAy AND EVERY t
about the development of a better 

announces recl"ta/ t t 
& FRIDAY AT 5: 15 p.m. & 
The Notre Dame Music depart-' ' ment will present a gradu~te recit~I & f of contemporary percusston mustc : & on Sun., Apr., 25, at 4 pm, in the ' ~ II ' Hoynes Hall recital room. James' Mass TO owed by dinner ' Catalano, the graduate assistant to ' ' the university bands, will be the-----------------­
soloist performing music on the
mirimba, vibraphone, and timpani. 


~~~:~~na~ew~~~m:~l~itrc~~:eo;';; ,:.y~fre~e·DW--·.,.
·-,__ ­

~~=~ed~n~in~r~~::t~~r!~i~i~/f~ro~:~ ~ I A A .~ 
or her overall contribution to NO. ~ GOLF CENTIR The winner of the award will be~ 


[{1.

announced on Apr. 29 in the 411 . ~ Observer and will receive a letter of~ commendation from the OAB. ·~ '' ,
Question • r.
nalre I 
"NIGHT LIGHTED" 

9 HOLE. PAR 3 GOLF COURSI!
return requested :.f.:!
~Qrlvlng Range· 18 Hole Miniature 
The Black Student Affairs Com-Open Dawn Til 10:00 PM 
.-----------------.....
/ \I
I * Wh /
• 

I I I 
1
I
I I 

0 0 ves ya'I b b ? J 
a y• II 
If you work for The Observer, I be sure to stay free 
I
May 1, a week from this Saturday. On this date, I 
Typists -Sue Shellenbarger, LOCATED us 33 AT IRONWOOD we will have an afternoon barbecue
mittee requests that all black
Judy Arenson, Camille Arrieh I I and an evening party. I
students complete and return their all 288 0033 Ih h T Ch f
p otograp er -ony i ari student life questionnaires as soon .. C 1 -I Future notices will tell time, place, etc. I 
Night Controller -Bob ~ -­Steinmetz (HI MOM!) as possible. For any questions, J If No Ana Call 282-2366 \ Just because we love ya. I Ad Layout _ Pat Russell J please contact Paula Dawning, :ilL _171.5 LINCOLN WAY I!AST so. II!NDJ
L Committee chairman, at 7421. -.."-CWWW&W~ ..._ ________________. '-----------------~ 

------~-------------­
Thursday, April 22, 1976 
the observer

On graduate level 
Burtchaell calls for 'concentrated' studies 
Marv Rathburn Staff Reporter 

Father James T. Burtchaell, University Provost, addressed an interested audience last night in the Library lounge. Burtchaell proposed four areas in which Notre Dame could offer a more integrated education to graduate students. 
The Provost advocated that grad­uate students should engage in an early research project in prepara­tion for the dissertation, that departments should concentrate on fewer specialties for graduate stud­ies. that there be more interaction between graduate students and professors. and that the university should offer supervised apprentice­ship in teal·hing. 
"The unlinished doctorate is one of the largest problems of graduate students," said Burtchaell. He discribed the common situation of "paralysis that sets in at the point of the dissertation." An early experience of personal reasearch. Burtchaell said. would give the student confidence in his ability to complete the dissertation. The Provost said "this research project might follow the first year of graduate studies.'' 
"We cannot compete with grad­uate departments that have five or ten times as many graduate facul­ty," Burtchaell claimed. "We should sacrifice some breadth and create depth in fewer areas. We could concentrate library and equipment purchases in these are­as.'' 
The Provost admitted this con­centration on a few specialties would would result in turning away qualified graduate students with different interests. But. he added, the strength of these areas would make a small department compar­albe in depth to the large graduate departments. 
Discussing his proposal for bet­ter academic and personal interac­tion between faculty and graduate students. Burtchaell said, "We should take advantage of our size. We ought to be able to turn out hand-crafted graduate students in a way that enormous departments cannot.'' He remarked that in many large graduate schools, the faculty is more likely to be off campus than on. The Notre Dame faculty. because of its tradition of integ•:ation into university life, can have a closer rapport with graduate students, he added. 
Ford praises U.S. military 
WASHINGTON AP -President Ford yesterday called for "a little straight talk" in the election debate and branded campaigning chl!_rges of 
U.S. military inferwrity "complete and utter nonsense." 
Without mentioning his chief critic on defense posture, Ronald !{eagan. Ford said there has been too much "exaggerated rhetoric" that is confusing and misleading. 
"The American people have had enough distorted allegations that we have become a second-rate nation," he said. 
Ford went to the meeting of Daughters of the American Revolu­tion, DAR, one of the nation's largest patriotic organizations, to urge that the issue of america's military strength "be addressed honestlv. factually and fairly." 
Reag.an has said the Sovi~ts have achieved dangerous military sup­remanl'Y. Last week in Corpus Christc, Tex., he said, "We're No. 2 in a world where it is dangerous and fatal to be second best." 
Campainging in Macon, Ga., ye-.tcrday. Reagan said media ac­l'ounts have confirmed his charge that the United States is willing to negotiate with the Hanoi govern­ment in Vietnam. America should discuss recognition of Hanoi only after a full accounting of Americans still missing in Vietnam, he said. 
Reagan also said Ford's economic 
policies won't eliminate the reces­
eel Soviet world domination are 
complete and utter nonsense." 
Pointing out he has asked Con­
gress for the two biggest defense 
bugets in the nation'shistory. Ford 
pledged that as long as he is 
President. "the United States will 
never become second to anybody." 
Ford said although the election 
campaign had begun to heat up and 
more attention was being focused 
on the national security issue, 
"there is still time to restore reason 
and perspective to our debates." 
Hesaid that"those who seek our nation's highest office have an obligation, I believe, to spell out the alternative directions they pro­pose in our foreign policy and our defense policy.'' 
Ford's campaigning schedule in­cludes Indiana and Georgia today and tomorrow and a four-dau trip next week to Louisiana and Texas. 
According to assessments from his campaign manager, Rogers Morton, Ford feels he will win a good share of the delegates in Georgia and do well in Indiana but still considers the outcome in Texas a tough race. 
Reagan has been campaigning hard in Texas, where primary voting is May 1. Presidential press secretary Ron Nessen said yester­day Ford "still feels he's behind in Texas, although he's getting closer and still hopes to pull ahead." 
Burtchaell praised the English department for its program of "supervised apprenticeship in teaching." He compared graduate school to professional schools like law and medicine, where court­room and clinical experience is required. All departments should insist that graduate students be given teaching responsibilities and guidance by senior faculty mem­bers, he said. 
Burtchaell envisions extending this service of teaching apprentice­ship to untenurcd faculty also. He proposed that an interdepartmental panel of senior faculty be assigned to offer criticism and suggestions to young teachers. 
Responding to questions from the audience, Burtchaell made the following comments: 
Although the university should give special attention to teaching apprenticeship. it should not sac­rifice graduate student research. 
Departments should investigate the tradition of collaborative re­search and co-publication by grad­uate students and professors. 
Departments should remain di­versified for undergraduate educa­tion. 
The graduate student can contri­bute to the university by being a good scholar and colleague. In these roles he is more akin to the faculty than to the undergraduate. 
Burtchaell's talc. to 3S graduate students and professors was the last in a lecture series sponsored hy the Graduate Student Union. 

An Tostal activities begin today 
by Bob Quackenbush and Mike Villani Staff Reporters 
An Tostal  weekend  begins  to­ 
day  with  a  variety  of  festival  
line-ups.  

Today is traditionally titled Gen­tle Thursday. and it should get off to a good start with the Irish Lunch in the Notre Dame dining halls. Four thousand free balloons will be distributed. 
The annual Trivia Bowl starts the afternoon's activities. The contest commences at 2: IS p.m. on the south quad. 
The bookstore arena hosts the Jocks vs. Girls basketball competi­tion at 4:00 p.m. An Tostal alumni Gregory T. Monito and Bob Hig­gins will referee the contest. 
At 4:1S p.m.• Jim E. Brogan, a Past An Tostal personality, will arrive at the St. Joseph County 
Airport. He will actively preside •
over several weekend festivities. 
Late in the afternoon, the final four teams of the Bookstore Basket­ball Tournament will battle their way to the b:mt's finals, to be held on Friday night. 
Twelve hundred tickets are being distributed by the hall presidents for admission to the St. Mary's picnic, being held from 4:30p.m. to 6:00p.m. 
Following the picnic, SMC foot­ball begins on the dining hall field with the semi-finals between Le­Mans-Augusta and Regina. The winner of which meets McCandless on Apr. 23, 6 p.m., at SMC. The SMC champ will then play Lyons Hall, the fall inter-hall champ, at 
2:30 p.m. on An Tostal field. 
The north quad will be the center of excitement in the early evening. The jail, pie-throwing and dunking booths will open at 7:30 p.m. For twenty-five cents, the An Tostal jailers, wearing blue SWAT hel­mets, will throw the convict of your choice into jail. 
The convicts have two options: fifty cents to bribe the guards, or a brief stint in the pie-throwing booth. 
A number of campus celebrities will take their scats in the An Tostal dunking booth. Three shots for a quarter. Featured will be Mike Gassman, Terry Keeney, and Ed Byrne. 
The Find Your Mate contest or "Group Grope" will begin at 7: IS 
I 
p.m. Following will he the Most Unusual Object conest at 7:45p.m. and the first annual An Tostal Funcathlon at 8:1S p.m. 
After activities end on the north quad. all are invited to Sorin Hall for the Mr. Campus Beauty Pag­eant. Ten n·prcsentatives from male residence halls will compete for this coveted title. The pageant 


~~~~~~~---­
UNISEX HAIR STYLING 
129 DIXIEWAY SOUTH ROSElAND IN PORTAGE R£ALn BUILDING 277..0734 ACROSS FROII RANDALL'S INN :··············································
• 

MOVIE BlDS
• 

CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS WISHIN<; TO-. SHOW A MOVIE NEXT SEMESTER MUST :
•
•

APPLY BY FRIDAY. APRIL 23. 
•
•

2nd FLOOR LaFORTI JNE •
•

HaiL.., tnav not snonsor movit.~s. 
• • 
• • • • • • • • • •••••••••· • ••••-.•••••••••••••• • 
Class of 1977 Re-Elect 
CALLAHAN­SCHLITZ­MOREFOOT 
HANRAHAN~~ 

VOTE ON WED. APRIL 28 


ONE GOOD TERM DERSERVES ANOTHER 


sion or inllation and that financial recovery cannot be reached "while 
ForBign a r a r s · o . 
the country is going deeper into dcht." 
) Parts & accessories for imported can. 
Reagan had a full day of cam­paigning in Georgia yeasterday. 

,...~ for all makes at lowest prices.
Re1ionol 
Ford is scheduled to tly there 
[l,.tr.butor *******272 -7187 ********* 
tomarrow to campaign for the state's May 4 primary. 
! For NO Students, Fac.ulty & Staft-t 
In his speech to the DAR, Ford 
drew applause from the audience of 
! purchase of $ 10 or more. ! 
some 3,000 when he said: "Recent charges that the United 
*************~~*********~ 
States is in a position of military inferiority and that we have accept-
BEFORE YOU LEAVE GIVE YOURSELF TIME 
--~--------------------------------------, 
• TO STOP

Aviation Officers Wanted 
• 
TO REFLECT 

• 
TO PRAY



The Navy needs some very special college graduates who aren't afraid 
• TO MAKE SOME 

to find out how good they really are, who can complete our demanding 
SENSE OF All THIS 

training program and who can meet the most exciting challenge of their lives. The challenge that leads to an exciting future as a Naval Flight 
• RETREA I WEEKEND

Officer flying in supersonic Jet aircraft. If you think you've got what 
• OLD COLLEGE

it takes to be someone special, write or call collect (312) 657-2169. 
• APRIL 30. MAY I & 

Aviation Placement 
0 SENIORS ONLY 
• FEE $6

NRD Chicago 
• SIGN·UP CAMPUS

Building 41 
MINISTRY OFFICE

NAS Glenview, IL 60026 
• DIRECTED BY 
R(V Bill TOOHEY 
C.S.C. 

J 

Thursday, April 22, 1976
the observer 

U.S. continues to fund, train Third World police 

by Deborah Kaufman Pacific News Service 

From Chile to Iran, the U.S. continues to train and supply police for the repressive military regimes sweeping the Third World--despite congressional cut-offs of such aid. 
Congress brought direct gov­ernment aid to foreign police to an end in March 1975, following public outcry against U.S. support to regimes such as those in Vietnam and Brazil. 
But today indirect channels con­tinue to pour U.S. police munitions, hardware and training into dozens of countries. These channels include: training and aid to military units with overlapping civilian police functions; use of the international narcotics control pro­grams of the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA); and the transfer of government programs to private contracts between U.S. firms and foreign governments. 
The most startling revelation of 

Tourists flocking to Italy for inexpensive vacations 
ROME AP -"Whip inflation. economic picture, and the govern-Visit Italy this year," could be the ment is counting on it to bring in slogan on a travel poster beckoning badly needed foreign currency. foreigners to this sunny land. The sharp increases in oil prices in 
The troubled economy and a 19"'3-74 set Italy on a downhill weak currency may be woe to economic slide, and fears by the Italians, but they've turned Italy wealthy and upper middle class into a relative paradise for tourists. that Communists will get in the Offtcials are hoping for a record new coaltion government have number of visitors. caused a flight of Italian private 
Tourists, who began pouring into capital. Italy before Easter, are finding "Italy is a foreigner's paradise," their dollars and other strong said Corriere della Sera, the foreign currencies will buy as much pected Milan newspaper, in this year as last, and sometimes front-page headline Monday after more -despite a 30 percent annual preliminary figures showed record inflation rate here. Easter tourist crowds. 
That's because the Italian lire Corriere called it"The big invasion has declined on foreign exchange of strong money.'' markets at almost the same speed It was not an overstatement. the cost of living has risen. Since January, as Italy has movt:d 
For instance, a double room from one poitical and economic with bath in a good Rome hotel cost crisis to another, the national 
31.600 lire -about $43 -last year currency has tottered accordingly. now cost 36,00 lire. But that's still The dollar, the German mark about $43, because of the different the Swiss franc buy some exchange rate. percent more lire than they did at 
Better yet, men's shoes that sold the start of the year. The dollar for 25.000 lire last year -$40 -are closed Monday at 876.50 up to 32,000 lire this year, but compared to 686 in mid-January. that's really down to $36. Men's Even the British pound and suits that were 80,000 -$128 -last French franc are up about year are down to $102 now. percent against the lira. Women's shoes that were $40 last "The Easter figures are a good year are down to $37.50 this year. sign and we hope the trend holds," 
Obviously. a pocket calculator said a spokesman for ENIT, the might be a good thing to bring national tourist office, after first along to figure out whether you're reports indicated record numbers getting a bargain. of foreingers flocked through the 
"We heard the dollar was strong Brenner Pass in the Alps and other in Europe, so we're counting on frontier points. doing a lot of shopping," said a Some 50,000 foreigners visited Chicago school teacher making her Venice alone over the Easter tirst trip to ltlay in 13 years. "But weekend. 

those thousands of lire can get --------------, confusing." 
NOW OPEN 

American visitors may also come out a little further ahead because of KELLEY'S int1ation at home should have SPQRTLAND
resulted in an increase in the numbcrofdollarsintheirpockets. U.S. 31 NILES 
Touri'>m is one of the few bright continuing police-military aid re­sulted from an investigation con­ducted last year by the comptroller­general of the U.S., Elmer B. Statts. He found that during 1975 "346 Chilean personnel attended courses at the U.S. School in Panama." 


The Chilean officers and enlisted 
men received training in operations 
of police in internal defense, new 
equipment and use of aviation in 
urban counter-insurgency, crowd 
and mob behavior, and application 
of "force." 
The Pentagon explained that it 
contracted for the training prior to 
the passage of the Foreign Assis­
tance Act of 1974, which banned 
training of foreign police and U.S. 
military aid to Chile. The act does 
not prohibit military police train­
ing. 
Statts published a report in February containing new evidence 
suggesting that congressional in­
tent was violated by the continued 
indirect support of foreign police. 
The report, called "Stopping 
U.S. Assistance to Foreign Police and Prisons," states that: 
"Common use facilities (com­munications equipment, uniforms and munitions) supported by U.S. 
military  assistance  are  used  by  
ineligible units;  
"Foreign military personnel  re­ 

ceiving training could be rotated to law enforcement assignments; 
"Certain foreign military unites with dual military and law en­forcement roles were not indenti­fied as such and continued to receive military assistance; 
"Military forces in countries under martial law could perform civilian police functions.'' 
Critics of the aid, including Sen. James Abourezk (D., S.D.), who introduced the amendment to end it, complained that the "security" was being purchased at the ex­pense of "the inhuman atrocities and the repressive and barbaric tactics to which some govern­ments" receiving aid resort. 
Evidence exists as well that the Justice Department's Drug En­forcement Administration (DEA). without congressional support, has 
THE VILLAGE 
SCENE 

APPAREL FOR THE 
GUYS & GALS OF THE ND-SMC COMMUNITY 
SCOTTSDALE 
MALL 

FREE ADS ''''•••• 
GET RID OF THAT OLD RUG, COUCH, T.V., ETC. WITH FREE AD SPACE IN THE OBSERVER!!! 
ADS FOR FREE SPACE MUST BE IN THE S.G. OFFICE BY 4:30 PM (4/2) FRIDAY 
~--~ 
Al!o-..;..a 

Sunday is Family Day at The Boar's·Head! 
from Noon till10:00 p.m. on Sundays 
COMPLETE HAM or CHICKEN DINNER 
$3.95 
COMPLETE CHOPPED SIRLOIN or CHICKEN DINNER for Kids (Under 12) 
0'$-L (Ourregularmenu
$1 75
~"-•1(1_ • Is available too!) 
~0 ~---
Cbe BOJIR.S-HEJID Restauttant 
52885 U.S. 31 North South Bend I 272-5478 

taken over some police training and· 
supply  functions  not  related  to  
narcotics.  
The  training  and  supply  of  

foreign police in matters of narco­tics control is specifically exempted from the 1974 congressional man­date. Consequently, the narcotics program in foreign countries--par­ticularly Latin America and Asia-­has expanded rapidly. 
The DEA presently has more than 400 agents in 42 countries, compared to the U.S. overseas narcotics force of just 26 in 1970. 
Columnist Jack Anderson has revealed that DEA agents have receiving training at a secret CIA counter-espionage school, and that at least 64 former CIA employees have been transferred to the DEA payroll. 
Since the early 1970's the gov­ernment has also increasingly transferred foreign supply and training functions from govern­ment agencies to private U.S. corporations. 
Among the most publicized deals, the Vinnell Corporation of 
~NO ODSPELL 
5 Me 
1--A-pr-il-23-,2-4,-29-,3-0,_M_a_y-1-at-8-:o-o-~ 
THEATRE 
1975-1976 Our 10th Joint Season 
P.M. Stepan Center (Notre Dame) 
$2.50 General Admission $2.00 Students, Faculty & Staff For Reservations Call 284-4176 
(Show Nights Call 283-7559) 
NOTE: 

ADS CONSIST OF 3 LINES 32 CHARACTERS PER LINE. Name, Phone No., Address required 
Alhambra, California, won a $77 million contract to provide "techni­cal assistants" and "military advi­sors" to Saudi Arabia's National Guard. 
There has been unconfirmed speculation that among the Vinnell personnel are former instructors and graduates of the now defunct International Police Academy m Washington, D.C. 
Nazz Deli lists closing times 
The Nazz Deli will be open for the final times this semester from April 21 throught April 24 and April 28 through! May 1. The hours are 9 p.m. to 12 p.m. 
The Nazz Deli serves a variety of hot sandwiches including sliced turkey, shaved ham and the "Naz­zwich," which is served by the inch and contains ham, salami, swiss cheese, lettuce and a special sauce. 
Bagels, cake donuts and beverages are also served. 


Thursday, April 22, 1976 
the observer 

thomas moran--portraits of america 
The ruggedness and color of the western American landscape is captured by Thom­as Moran in watercolors, sketches, etch­ings, and oils now on exhibit at the Notre Dame Art Gallery in O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
The exhibition consists primarily of Moran's smaller works--his field sketches and watercolors, with few etchings and oils. With them, Professor Thomas S. Fern, preparcr of the exhibit, attempts to "show the nature of the artist as he worked day by day in the field." Some of the works are rough. with artists's notes written directly on the pictures; all display a sense of spontaneity and lightness. These contrast with the romanticism of most of his oils, composed in his studio from groups of these field sketches. 
Moran, born in England in 1837, gained national prominence in 1872 when the U.S. Congress bought his landscape painting of the Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone River. This painting, along with numerous lield sketches he drew of the Y cllowstone area during the F.V. Hayden expedition in IH71. prompted Congress to make Yellow­stone America's first national park. 
The dh.play breaks Moran's life as a painter into three distinct periods. The lir~t. before the Yellowstone survey, includes his formative and experimental years, JHSil to IH70. The second 1871-92. is illl' time Moran made most of his western expedition~. and was his most productive period. The third. from 1893 to his death in J92h. deal~ with Moran's attempts to interpret, ntther than simply convey the lallll<.cape he painted. and shows a 'uh~titution of 'ymholisms and generaliza­tions for hi~ former realism. 
The worb of Moran's early period are bright. slwrp and colorful. They do not concentrate so much on detail and uni4ue vi-;tas a~ do his later drawings and paintings, but retlect his romantic style and love of the rugged western landscape. 1-lis colors at·e sharp and distinct, not as well blended or strong as in his later watercolors. The scenes he concerns 
mOVIes 
himself with are comparatively uncomplcx. 
The works which comprise the display of Moran's early period show the viewer his artistic development. Paintings progress from those of the area around his Philadelphia home to scenes from his trip to Lake Superior--his first westward voyage and the time during which he discovered the beauty of the American landscape. 
It was during the middle period, beginning with the Hayden expedition, that Moran came into his own as a great western painter, ranking with Albert Bicrstadt, Frederick Remington and Char­les Russell. The American West provided for Moran a "subject matter compatible with his artistic inclinations,'' Prof. Fern writes. These inclinations led Moran to produce paintings combining romanticism and realism, expressing the sublime and expansive aspects of the landscape. 
Moran would compose his paintings by drawing a series of field sketches to be combined into a complete oil later in his studio. This was necessary, since many of Moran's oils were enormous--some meas­uring six by ten feet. Such is the case with his painting Mountain of the Holy Cross, an etching of which is on display at the exhibit. The original. which won a gold medal at the Philadelphia Centennial Exposition in 1876, was literally cut from its frame at one time in order to be saved from a tire. It now hangs, undamaged, in the National Cowboy Hall of Fame in Oklahoma City. 
Putting into practice the views of English art critic John Ruskin, as expressed in his essay "Truth to Nature," Moran consci­ously depicted scenes as they actually existed. Y ct he enhanced this realism by 
painting unconventional vistas. Prof. Fern states, in the brochure accompanying the exhibit, "Moran depicted the sublime vistas as few other painters had done; he gave the viewer a precarious position perched on a precipice looking down into unfathomable chasms or over the edge of a rushing waterfall." 
karl j. blette 
Beginning with a trip to N · v Yorl in 1879, Moran widened the scope of his subject matter. In his "Communipaw" series, also on display, he depicts indusrial New York City with cold realism. In 1886 he traveled to Venice and painted several scenes, romantically showing its pictur­esque qualities. In each case he failed to find the combination of natural beauty and romantic sublimity which the West had offered him. 
After 1892, Moran's paintings and drawings became more and more idealized and his landscapes appeared "invented rather than experienced.'' As he concen­trated on the formal artistic qualities of color and form, his art suffered. 
The works from this period on display are largely Grand Canyon scenes; Moran visited the area regularly beginning in 1901. The colors and lines of these pictures arc brighter and more systematic than his earlier works. The concentration is more on atmosphere and mood than the landscape itself. 
Despite this final phase, Moran earlier demonstrates his great talent at using watercolors effectively and realistically. His watercolors arc deep and vibrant. The rocks arc solid; the clouds appear ready to burst with rain. The scenes take on a natural beauty and richness of detail which 


vegetable buddies-­, ,something new 1n mus1c 
One of South Bend's most depressing non-4ualitics is that is good, live music costs at least five dollars person, though usually lasting only as long as the "star" wants to stay on stage. 
The only local alternatives have been either rock 'n roll bands that act like fugitives from high school, or solo perfor­mers, whose music usually is indiscernable from the rumblings of the crowd. Other­wise, a person had to travel to Chicago to 

the dream and the reality 


"When the puffs dot the sky, Winter's gone and Spring is nigh." So opens Aman·ord, Frer!crico Fellini's fast-moving, impressionistic film, that carries us through the shadows and corners of one year in the youth of the director. Indeed, this film is to cinema what the paintings of Monet arc to art, for both are loosely contruetcd and obscure; a design that allows the viewer to usc his imagination to bring all the components into focus and form some coherent whole. 
But Amacord is by no means a film designed to appeal to the intellectual elite. For the most part the tilm is lusty and hilarious, with characters that border of caricature and al'tion that borders of farce. 
One of the best episodes is the scene in which the young man finally finds himself alone after hours in the tobacco shop with the buxom and brawny girl who works there. After impressing her with his strength by picking her up several times, she succumbs to his seduction. 
But during the passionate wrestling that follows, the young man disappoints her with his experience. "What on earth are you doing?" she finally asks disgustedly. "Forget it. It's late anyway." 
Fcllini can also be highly sensitive, but he never allows himself to dwell on the pathetic or profane. 
And Fcllini moves at such a furious pace that it is difficult to separate the comic from the serious. In one scene we sec retarded Uncle Theo dozing in his chair after the picnic while all the others were off enjoying the sun. Then, in an instant, the scene is gone and we discover Uncle Thco up in the branches of a tree, refusing to come down until someone brings him a woman. It is only a director of Fcllini's greatness that can put two such incongru­ous elements side by side and still prevent them from dissolving into one absurd and confused impression. 
Distant memories arc like dreams; we can only remember bits and pirccs, the images and symbols that have left indelible impressions on our minds. There are symbols and images in Amacord, in fact so many that it is impossible to attempt separate interpretations and still keep pace. And there are moments of visual beauty -a seagull floating on an orange sky, a peacock standing in the snow. But these are only moments in the film when we become more or less aware that what we arc seeing is really one large moment, one grand impression. 
When leaving the Engineering Auditor­ium last night, I heard one dissatisfied patron grumble, "It didn't make any sense. There wasn't a plot." 
The same can be said of dreams (and life) but that's beside the point. If you are going to spend your movie dollar on something, you want to be entertained. 
This film is the last in the Cinema '76 series, a program that has tried to combine entertainment and a certain degree of sophistication in their selection of films. As far as entertainment and sophistication arc concerned, Amarcord combines the best of both. 
•

Perhaps the finest compliment paid to All the President's Men came from Carl Bernstein, who was quoted in Time. Said Bernstein, "They did a spectacular report­ing job to do this movie." 
"They" are primarily Produce! and star Robert Redford, co-star Dustin Hoffman, and Director Alan Pakula. Indeed, the movie moves along with the terseness and pinpoint accuracy of a newspaper story. The cast is rife with established acting talents, but none of them are ever allowed to indluge in individual creativity that would hurt the film. 
This not tu say that the performances arc not exceptionally good. They are. Redford and Hoffman as Woodward and Bernstein do an excellent job in recreating what must have been a highly unusual "working relationship." They don't try to con the audience into believing that they were great pals. 
The movie, like the book it was based on and is faithful to, is a political detective story that is not nearly as "thrilling" or "spellbinding" as it is fascinating. The 
david o'keefe 

&It , J 
.. 
tt!'~t ·:~~~ a~ 
fascination of the movie lies wholly in the 
ability of the actors to recreate and of the 
director to convince. 
Redford and Hoffman have a lot of help. 
Jason Robards is one of the finest actors in 
America and he reestablishes his reputa­
tion with his superb portrayal of Washing­
ton Post Executive Editor Ben Bradlee. 
Hal Holbrook is excellent as Woodward's 
mysterious source, "Deep Throat," and 
Martin Balsam also turns in a fine 
performance as Managing Editor Howard 
Simons. 
The documentary-type realness was also 
aided in other ways. Much of the film was 
shot on location in and around Washing­
ton. The Washington Post newsroom was 
recreated in detail by Warner Brothers, 
and occasional news dropping of Eagleton 
or Nixon's renomination provide both a 
sense of irony and history. 

All the President's Men concerns itself 
mainly with the investigations by Wood­
ward and Bernstein into the secret slush 
fund maintained by the Committee to 
Re-elect the President. While it stops far 
short of the climax of the Watergate 
scandal, the film nor the book was ·never 
intended to be a start-to-finish account of 
the scandal. 
The last scene shows Woodward and 
Bernstein at their typewriters, each with 
looks of determination on their faces. The 
final minutes of the movie show a series of 
reports coming in over a teletype machine, 
from the resignation of Spiro Agnew to the 
rcsi_gnation of Richard Nixon with all the resignations, indictments and convictions in between. It is a particularly fitting ending because it serves to remind us that what we have 
just witnessed on the screen was not the 
product of the Hollywood "dream fac­
tory," but a very real and very recent 
thing. 
f,w artists are able to achieve with anything short of oils. 
The Moran exhibition ,Jrovidcs the view~; with an opportuJ.it,v to sec the development of an arti: tit •alent. a~ well as a chance to experience the beauty which still exists in the American West. It is effective as part of the year's bicentennial programming. and viewing it is a worth­while way to spend an Easter break afternoon. 
ttnd reasonably-priced, good music. 
Then, something new happened in the urban-renewal wasteland of downtown South Bend. A Notre Dame alumnus and some friends built a music club out of the ruins of a stereo shop, naming their creation, "Vegetable Buddies." 
The alum, Rick Dow, persuaded some jazz and blues musicians to play at his club, for the long-suffering crowds of South Bend. Things have gone so well, for both performers and audience, that Dow's club established itself as a major showcase of talent after only a month. 
Though the outside of "Vegetable Buddies" looks like an abandoned build­ing, complete with dirty windows, the inside was built for music. The stage is within 20 feet of the audience, adding intimacy to the atmosphere and personality to the music. The close proximit; of listcrncr and performer helps eradicate the sterile, business-like acts of larger clubs, and fosters an artistic environment for the musicians, and for the creation of good, original music. 
For a $1.50 cover charge, one can hear a nightful of easy music except on Sundays. "Rock groups bring in the weird crowds," Rick explained, remembering the troubles he had a few nights ago. "For the most part we'll stick with jazz, and mainly blues." 
VB is also a chance for Rick to help the numerous exploited blues mustctans. "Many blues players are often poorly educated, and get cheated regularly by other musicians and record companies. While their song might be someone else's million-selling single, the blues artist is often just barely getting by.'' He cited the case of last weekend's act, Fenton Robin­son. Years ago he wrote the song. "Somebody loan me a dime," which was pirated by another musician, so Robinson earned nothing for a popular tunc. 
"These sort of rip-offs, along with advancing age, have kept many great blues players from gaining recognition," Rick lamented. "In the future, I would like to change this, by giving the aritsts' bio­graphies between sets, and possibly pro­ducing a film on blues players. But for now, all I can do is to present them and their music to South Bend." 
That he does, six nights a week, staying open often into the wee hours of the morning. Plans call for bluegrass artists from in and around South bend dominating the Monday night entertainment. Tuesday nights are for jazz, with the featured band playing one set, then opening the stage to any musician wishing to join them. Then on Wednesday comes "blues night," featuring either a young or old Chicago band. Country, rock or blues bands, often well-known, will be scheduled Thursdays through Saturdays. 
With a bar, pool table and relaxing music, VB has already drawn great crowds. 
As Rick pointed out, "We never had anything like VB when I went to ND. think this is a great place have a . great time." 


SONY Stereo Amp And Tuner Combo 
Orig. $560.00 

Model ST·5150 Stereo FM/IlM Tuner­
Exceptional sensitivity, selectivity an_d capture ratio make this one of the best of tis kmd on the market! High blend. Defeatable muting. Twin meters. 
PIONEER RT·lOllL 3·Head 3·Motor Open Reel Deck 
Handles big lOW' reels for hours of no-fuss listening! Switchable bias and equalization. Mike/line mixin_g. Four-digit counter. Front-panel m1ke and headphone jacks. Two large VU meters for precise monitoring of record $ level. 
Orig. $599.95 

449 
CAPITOL Specials 
1800 Ft. 
?"Open 
Reel Blank 
Tape 

Orig. $6.99 
$399 
Deluxe SHERWOOD S7110 System 
Model Tl\·1150 Integrated llmp 
Optimum versatility and performance! Two tape Value -packed Sherwood S7ll0monitors, filters, auxd­
Stereo FM/AM Receiver gives
iary and phono inputs. 
you all the most popular fea­Plus tone controls with tures. Tuning meter. "A" and
switchable turnover 
"B" pairs of speaker outputs.
points and both main and 
Headphone jack. PROJECT/remote pairs of speaker 
one DR-I Belt-Drive Manual 
outputs. Front-panel 
Turntable complete with base,
headphones and auxil­
dust cover and Stanton 600EEiary jacks. Super! 
Cartridge. And two dynamite E-V 114 10" 2-Way Speaker Sys-. terns! What a buy! 
Two tuning meters and two power level meters. Outputs for three pairs of speaker systems. Total tape versatility including two monitors! Three tone controls. Mike mixing. Phase lock loop. Un­surpassed! 
Orig. 

$550
$750.00 

PLAYBACK 
6x9"Coax 
Speaker 
Reg. $21.50
$1288 

Top-sounding wide-range 6x9" Coaxial
SKilNDil 555-FM/8· Reg.$69.95 
Speaker with massive 10-ounce magnet and Tr.-Full stereo versatility! 
$49 
separate tweeter. Gets the most from your
AFC. Easy to install. Dash-
ing! 


... ! 
SaleEnds ApPil28! 
I j 
I 
I 
l 
I 
I 
I 
I 
•I 
I 
I 
j 
STANTON 8004 II I 

VEG.Il V-8 8" 2·Way 
-(Above) Dynclmite
$;sg· ~~~~ 

Complete with base, dust cover and 681EEE Car­tridge. Unbeatable! 
AR-XB Manual Belt-Drive 
(Below) Professional performance! Ultra-low rumble, wow and flutter. Cueing! Base and dust cover! 
PROJECT/one llS-8 
8 2-Way-(Left) 
Sounds better than 
Orig. $79.00 most m
$3gso itsclass! 

PLAYBACK 5·Band Equalizer 
Reg.$69.95 Vastly improves the sound quality of most
$3497 
systems! Plugs into tape monitor jacks. 

sational Sansui QRX­J FM AM Receiver deliv­beautiful stereo, and 1 two additional speak­fantastic 4-channel re­uction! Features ga­BSR 2260 Changer
plete w1th base, dust 
r and cartridge. Two ing JF-6 6" 2Way Book­! Speaker Systems. 
SANSUI QRX-3000 System 
.Separat!299
$587.00 
PIONEER SX·636 Receiver 
All the featurc•s and per­formance most people would ever need or want! Two meters, tape monitors, pairs of speaker outputs and more! A best buy!
$249~;~~·.oo 



Founded November 3. 1966 
The Observer'' puhlt'>ht>rl h\ studl'nts ot the Untverstt\ of Notrt> Dame and '>t \1.tn ' Collq~t' It dot>'> not nPtt>ssarth rt>IIPct tht> polttte'> of t>tlht•r "''t1tutton 1 ht• """"' 1'> rt>portt>d as anuratPI\ and obtprt1vely a'> poss1blt> 
1 d1ton,11, rt>prt•.,•nt tht• op1n1on or a mJront\ ol tht' f d1tonal Board l ·""""''"t"'"'' "'" ttw v1t""-' of mrl1v1du.tl t>dtto" Op1n1on.,. cartoon> and 
r .. gul.~r 't>lurnrh !'\pr"'' tht> vi!'W'> of th!'lr au tho" Column '>[Jill!' 1s ,1\ .1t1.1blo• to .til n~t•rnht•r> of thP lOrnmunlt\. and lt>ttt'" drt' Pntouragt>d to prol1lt>to· th•· lrt•t• t'\flrP'>'>IOn ol \arvmg op1n1on' on campu' 
'''\\"' .!H~ Khhl 
1om .'.l\odgl111 

EDITORIAl BOARD 
1 honhh l) "•·tl I dltor-m-Ch~t•f D.H1 '>.till hi'/ M.rnagmg E' d1tor Crt·gg ll.1ng' I "'' utl\t' I d1tor \',rl/urbl" I "'' Ullvt' f d1tor 
Pttt Ht1n1f1n I d1tonal I d1tor lloh .'1.1,tdt•r f "'<Uti\!' Nt>\o\'> Fd1tor .'1.1.1urt·o·n I 1\nn l',trnpu'> f d1tor .\1drt 1 Ht~gdn '>t Mdr\ ' I dttor 1l<111 Ro•111H'r Cop\ ldttor !1111 0 R!'tlt>\ f t•.rtur"' I dl!or t rt·d Ht•rh~t '.porh I d1tor ,\1dn f ~,tn Contnhutmg I d1tor 
Thursday, April 22, 1976 
P.O. Box Q 
Thank-you Emil T. 

Dear Editor: 
As candidates for next year's Sophomore Class officers, we feel that it is our duty and responsibility to express our gratitude to this year's Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies. Dr. Emil T. Hofman. I am sure that we speak for the majority of the Class of 1979 in so doing. 
Dr. Hofman has certainly done an excellent job for us this year. We arrived here at the beginning of the year as a confused group of frightened individuals, "typical" freshmen. The excellent organiza­tion of the Freshman Year of Studies alone is what carried us through those uneasy first few weeks. Dr. Hofman, as Dean, was a steadying influence for our class. He or his staff was always available to us for counselling and advice. He always quickly disseminated all important, necessary information to the class as a whole through his 
Dean's  Newsletter.  Dr.  Hofman  
himself  was  in  almost  constant  
contact  with  over  half  of  the  

Freshman Class because of his morning chemistry classes. Thus, we were able to know and respect him as a person, not as a "king" loftily enthroned in the Freshman Year of Studies. 
From the beginning, Dr. Hofman took us under his arm and began forming us into a more cohesive group, a class of our own right. He organized a Freshman Advisor Council. with freshman represen­tatives from each hall. This group met weekly in order to plan activities and solve some of the unique problems which freshmen have, and they were very success­ful in this task. 
This was but one way in which Dr. Hofman helped to unify our class. Even more importantly, he organized various worthwhile social and cultural activities for us. This was an excellent idea on his part.' for how can a class that does not know itself ever hope to be unified? It cannot! Under the auspices of Dean Hofman and the Freshman Year of Studies, this year's freshman class enjoyed sev­eral picnics, trips to Bendix Woods and the Dunes, and two trips to the hear,1if1·l Windy City to our west. 
l h nng we were even able to have a Freshman Formal, planned entirely by the Freshman Advisory Council. 
Dean Hofman also helped to alleviate our academic worries and fears with those most powerful of weapons, truth and knowledge. Most fears and anxieties about future studies and careers come about from a lack of reliable information. Dean Hofman and his staff did an excellent job of answering our questions and sup­plying us with the good information which we so desperately needed. He even organized a Spotlight Program which allowed all in our class to learn of the various colleges and majors open to us. This program allowed us to listen to and talk with the people directly involved with these programs. 
In summary, we feel that Dr. Hofman has done an excellent job as Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies. He has helped our class along in its struggling growth, not forcing us into any set pattern but instead guiding us and helping us to unite and form our own unique class. Dr. Hofman and his staff have helped us turn what could have been a hellish first year into a pleasant and exciting experience. Therefore, we feel that most of this year's Freshman Class is backing us as we extend our sincere thanks to him and ask that he be reinstated as Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies. He has done an exception­
al job, one which we would very much like to see continued for the benefit of future classes of fresh­men. Thank you very much for your attention! 
Michael Clancy Reed King The Other Members of their Soph Class Tickets 
Why the 
$50 Fee? 

Dear Editor: 
It has come to our attention that 

the $50 non-refundable deposit due 
next Tuesday, April 27 for the 
Senior Class Trip to Southern Cal is 
an unnecessary and burdensome 
expenditure. We believe: 
1) the amount of $50 is entirely too expensive, considering it is 20%of the total cost ($250) when most deposits are only up to 10% of the total cost; 
2) the amount is hard to pay now at the end of the semester when most people have little or no money; 
3) that the deposit could be refundable considering the demand there will be for this trip; 
4) the amount of tickets (80) allotted to St. Mary's is a ridicu­lously low figure. 
We, as upcoming seniors, call upon the Senior Class Officers to explain the situation in this news­paper before the deadline next Tuesday. There may be reasonable explanations for these conditions which the class would be interested in hearing. 
Burt Brunner and other members of the Class of'77 
Beer-throwing 
Dear Editor: I am writing to inform the 
(f.lcY, YOU! 
~V15!0N15T 
SWING!) 
\ 

~ 
::> 
m fB 
z 
0 
0 
Q 
student body of a problem which has been brought into sharp focus in recent weeks. Some people will laugh and snicker but, neverthe­less, it is a serious problem. It is the activity of beer-throwing and pushing at dances at the South Bend Armory. Due to beer throwing. there have been many people hurt by falling on wet floors. 
Two girls have required immediate hospital attention, due to the wet tloors. Concrete floors are not the best to dance on when dry, but when wet, they are extremely dangerous. 
The question that comes to mind, is why do people throw beer at the armory, when they never throw beer at hall parties, Campus View parties, or anywhere else for that matter? It would be considered a sign of immaturity. The only answer that comes to mind is that people have this mystical idea of armory party tradition. They think that every armory party must have wet floors, and people falling. This is a tradition suited to high school kids, not college students. 
Armory dances were restarted this year, by convincing the admin­istration that the students were ready to take on the responsibilities attached to armory parties. The students showed this responsibility at the first few dances. They however, now seem to have forgotten this responsibility, as evidenced at the most recent dance, on Apri19. 
Besides the obvious danger of personal injury to their fellow students, the student body must realize the liabilities involved with armory dances. There is no liability insurance for armory dan­ces. No one will insure them. If someome were to fall on the wet floors, get hurt, and then sue student government, it could wipe out the treasury of student govern­ment for the year. Student government is risking its budget, which is your money, every time it holds a dance at the armory. 
This Saturday, the HPC is sponsoring the Irish Wake at the armory. In the past, it has been a nice, classy event. Keep it that way. Don't throw beer. Don't push people and cause them to fall on the concrete. Show the admini­stration that the student body is responsible and that past problems were caused by a small minority of the student body. I think that the student body is responsible. Prove it. 
Charlie Moran 

opinionI!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
Homosexuals Unnatural 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiichar/es e. rice 
In the frequent discussions in The Observer on the subject of homosexual activity, some confusion has been generated. First, the distinction between the objective and subjective orders tends to be obscured. It is important to emphasize that an assertion that homosexual activity is objectively wrong does not involve a judgment as to the subjective culpability of any person involved. The objective wrongness of the act arises from its violation of the objective moral order, rooted in the unchangeable essence of human nature, which order exists whether we recognize it or not. Subjective culpability, on the other hand, depends on factors of knowledge and will which are properly judged only by God and a confessor. 
Second, and more basic, is the tendency to treat the homosexual issue as if it were a selfcontained civil liberties question, abstracted from the controlling moral considerations. The starting point here is Humanae Vitae the much maligned 1968 encyclical of Pope Paul VI on contraception and other issues relating to human life. 
Humanae Vitae, of course, is an authentic teaching ot the magisterium, or teaching authority, of the Pope who is the Vicar of Christ. As the Second Vatican Council declared, "religious submission of mind and will must be shown in a special way to the authentic magisterium of the Roman Pontiff, even when he is not speaking ex Cathedra, that is, it must be shown in such a way that his supreme magisterium is acknowledged with reverence, the judgments made by his are sincerely adhered to. according to his manifest mind and will." [Constitution on the Church, No. 25) 
But Humanae Vitae merits acceptance not only because of its authoritative character but also because of the substance of itsposition. In Humanae Vitae, the Pope affirmed "the inseparable connection, willed by God and unable to be broken by man on his own initiative. between the two meanings of the conjugal act: the unitive meaning and the procreative meaning." The wilful separation of the unitive and the procreative aspects of sex is characteristic not only of contraception but also of homosexuality, as well as pornography and abortion. 
Homosexual activity is wron because it is extra-marital and also for the same reason that contraception is wrong. As Cardinal John Wright commented, "What fundamentally distinguishes 'perver­
sion' -as homosexuality, lesbianism, and bestiality -from the bisexual relationship is precisely its fundamental lack of relationship to the transmisssion of life and its consequent inevitable fact and sense of natural frustration." 
The question of homosexual conduct cannot be discussed coherently except in the light of the denial by the contraceptive society of the inherent connection between the unitive and procreative aspects of sex. It is in this context that Humanae Vitae is most instructive. There is in fact an objective moral order which is discoverable from the Diving Law and human nature. This moral order includes "immutable laws inscribed in the constitutive elements of human nature and which are revealed to be identical in all beings endowed with reason." (Declaration on Certain Questions Concerning Sexual Ethics, Dec. 29, 1975) 
The intrinsic connection between the unitive and procreative is rooted in human nature itself. The contraceptive society, however, rests upon the fallacy that the unitive or recreational aspect of sex is an independent and self-sufficient end in itself with no inherent relation to procreation. 
This is the essence of the Playboy philosophy, pursuant to which the partner, whether male or female, tends to become merely an instrument of one's own gratification. Once that contraceptive philosphy is accepted, there can be no coherent objective ground for opposition to homosexual activity. For if the recreational or unitive aspect of sex is a total end in itself, there is no essential reason why sex whould be restricted to couples of different sexes or reserved for marriage. 
It should be emphasized that the affirmation of the objective wrongness of homosexual activity does not involve any judgement as to the subjective culpability of any person. Rather, the purpose of these remarks is to suggest that in this controversy too little attention has been paid to the authentic interpretation of the moral law which was enunciated in Humanae Vitae. 
Throughout the Church, we have paid great attention to the views of our friendly neighborhood or campus theologians on these matters. It is time for us to listen to the authentic teachings of the Vicar of Christ. One cannot intelligently discuss the question of homosexual activity except in the context of Humanae Vitae. More recently, too, on December 29, 1975, the Sacred Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith issued, at the direction of the Pope, a Declaration on Sexual Ethics which affirmed the objective wrongness of homosexual relations because of their extra-marital character and their lack of "an essential and indispensable finality." Humanae Vitae and the Declaration should be carefully read, particularly by the faculty and students of a Catholic university. I trust the documents can be obtained from any hall rector or member of the Theology Department. 
HONEY, T&U­.. ANO THAT I'M
(MANf.IERP 

HIM7HAT I He<& 70 /NV/T/3 (/A/HAT (J.IG .stl~
U/ANT5TO 

TAlk ti!ITH 

I



~----­
Thursday, April 22, 197& 
the observer

In Antartic waters 
New international protein supply discovered 
by John Lohr and protein supply. 
have the most progress. protein, comparable to most chees-disputed landclaims ana prohibited
Michael Castleman Before they reach the frozen food 
The Japanese harvest krill and es and fish and greater than that of commercial and military develop­
Pacific News Service counter, they must be prevented 
immediately process them into a eggs or milk. ment of the area. Several nations-­
from self-destructing. Krill decom­
bean, curd-like paste on factory The staggering potential of krill the U.S., Soviet Union, Chile , 
pose very quickly when killed. As 
ships. Liquid is extracted at high as a world protein source can only Argentina. Britain, New Zealand
they die, their bodies release an 
pressure from the krill, then con-increase world interest in mineral­and South Africa, maintain re­
Sailing in Antarctic waters they enzyme that putrifies them within 
gealed with heat into conveniently rich Antarctica, the earth's largest search bases on Antarctica and
knew to be several hundred fath­an hour. Krill must be processed 
stored and transported blocks of untapped land mass. The Antarctic nearby islands. 
om!> deep. the crew of the research on the spot by factory ships. 
paste. They can be marketed is currently a zone of international As krill expeditions from several
vessel Hero was startled as their The Soviet Union, Japan, Chile 
directly in that form, or mixed with cooperation. Land claims were nations steam southward, it re­
sonar equipment seemed to go and West Germany have all begun 
cheese and butter. "frozen" there for 30 years by the mains unclear whether the Antarc­
haywire. The instruments indicat­research on krill processing. The 
Krill paste has already been Antarctic Treaty of 1961, an out­tic will remain a zone of interna­
ed a solid bottom 20 feet below the Japanese, under worldwide pres­
test-marketed in Japan with some growth of the 1957-58 International tional cooperation--or bcl'ome the
ship's hull. sure to find a substitute for the 
success. It has a shrimp-like Geophysical Year. earth's final geo-political h:>ttle-
On an officer's hunch, the deck increasin~lv threatened whale. 
flavor, and contains 13-20 percent The treaty place a moratorium on ground.__________ 
crew lowered a net over the side. 
tNEW-Lo&iidN~t .-·-­
Up came millions of tiny . wriggling krill. Krill--transparent-bodied, shri­
:MILANO'S I TOWN
mp -like crustaceans--arc so high in protein and so plentiful they could well become a worldwide t ORDER YOUR t 
s
food source over the next decade. The tiny crustaceans live in huge t t srhools a few fathoms from the t AN TOSTAL t surface of the Antarctic Ocean. 
( nikan authorities estimated in 
t PICNIC PIZZA .t
147S th... t 150-200 million tons of krill could be harvested annually t t .vithout appreciably affecting spec­
H
ies reproduction. t FROM US t 
An annual catch of ISO million tons of krill would alone be n10re ! PIZZA DELIVERY ! than twice the entire planet's 
' AVAILABLE TO ' 
current annual tish catch--which was around 65 million tons in 1972. !ND-SMC CAMPUS l The world's annual fish catch has 
0
since been declining. Overfishing ' MILANO'S has endangered the existence of some marine species by interfering ! 815 W. McKINLEY I with their abilities to reproduce. 
' MISHAWAKA 
Seaside land development projects have destroyed many coastal estu­
~COLLEGE SQUARE): 
p

ariC's, the "nurseries of the sea" where !ish spawn. Pollution has 
L~~N!~~1!_5!_j
also threatened fish populations by 
upsetting the ocean's ecological 
balance. 
Against this backdrop of dimini­
shing food supply and increasing 
famine on land. krill offer a 
potential breakthrough as a plenti­
ful source of self-generating staple 
Social Security benefits increased 
WASHINGTON AP-I htrty-sev­
l'n million persons on Social Secur­
ity and Supplemental Security In­
come will receive a 6.4 percent 
co~t-of-living increase beginning 
with their July checks. the govern­
ment said yesterday. 
The benclit increases will cost 
about $6.6 billion between July I, 
197h, and Oct. I. 1977, sources 
said. That includes higher pay­
nu:nts during the transitional 
I.JUarter from July I to Oct. I when 
the federal government switches to 
a new fiscal accounting period. 
The Social Security raises will come out of Social Security trust funds which arc expected to experi­ence a deficit for the second straight year. The supplemental Security Income increases will be paid out of general funds in the Treasury. 
Monthly benefits hikes for the 
32.6 million Social Security recipi­ents will range from $6 to $3 I. 
Maximum federal payments un­der Supplemental Security Income will go up $10.10 a month for individuals, to a new total of $167.80 and up $15.20 a month for couples to $251.80. 
Supplemental Security lnt·ome recipients in the District of Colum­bia and the 28 states that supple­ment the federal payment will receive the 6.4 percent benefit increases only if the states act to pass it along. 
By July, there will be an estimat­ed 4.4 million Americans receiving Supplemental Security Income. The program was federalized on .Jan. I , 1974 when the goverr.ment took over the state welfare rolls of the aged, bEnd and disabled. 
The new cost-of-living increases will be added to checks received July 3 by Social Security recipients and July I by Supplemental Secur­ity Income beneficiaries. 
The increases arc automatic. based on a comparison of the average monthly Consumer Price Index the first qu&rter of 1975 and the first quarter of 1976. 
Macrame Hangers and Pots!!! 
Many unusual items. 
2340 miracle Iaroe mrshawaka, mdiana 46544 219/256 0111 


AND 
COUNTRY 

~--~;;~~;~;;T-;;--~ 
t t 
t WATCHES t t t t BULOVA ACCUTRON t
I I
CARA VELLE
I I
DIGITAL CRAFTSMANSHIP 
f ---· t 
t .WATCH REPAIR MARK D. HIRTH .~.':--.. t
t •CLOCK REPAIR Licensed Watchmaker ~ t 
t .JE;:~:~: HIRTH'S JEWELERS t 
t •ENGRAVING t
t •ANTIQUE 913W.McKmleyHwy. & WATCH College Square ' A M1shawaka, lnd1ana & ' & CLOCK ' 
f REPAIR (219)255·3817 (219)287·9893 ' t •I IMEX REPAIR 8us1ness Home ; 
L----------------~ 
Come You Fightin' Irish 
TO TOWN & COUNTRY
Ah, yesss••• 
FOR YOUR FAVORITE 
WINES-LIQUORS 
Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM 
LIQUOR • WINE 10% DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC I.D. BEER · BEST PRICE IN TOWN 
VOLUME DISCOUNT 
FREE DELIVERY 
••• An Tostal FREE 
DELIVERY 
Weekend 
is the time 

TO PARTY!!! 

,._.. -";. 

-------------------~ 
1Q the observer Thursday, April 22, 1976
! 
Preludes Kissinger visit ! Anti-American sentiment develops in Africa 
NAIROBI. Kenya AP -Criticism probably in Zambia.
aid from any source and that the Diplomats anticipated Kenya will South Africa, Nigeria, Liberia and of Henry A. Kissinger and Amer­United States, if it is worried by be among the friendliest stops. Zaire. ican policy in Africa is building up Soviet involvement, shoult itself Troubled waters With a Socialist military govern­The official U.S. community is 
among black African militants in become more involved. ment to the they said, the being by 12 regional
left, increaded 
advance of the U.S. secretary of Ugandan President ldi Amin, in Another Nairobe Newspaper, United States appears to be in­diplomatic security officers who are state's first visit south of the a Uganda radio broadcast monitor­The Standard, said Kissinger could creasing its presence in Kenya as moving to Nairobi from Ethiopia.Sahara. ed in Nairobi, called Kissinger a be heading for troubled waters. the only openly pro-West nation The Peace Corps has 270 members 
But some moderate African lead­"murderer of Africans and Pales­"He will be told point blank that remaining in eastern Africa. 
in Kenya, with a larger group only ers sec the tour as their best chance tinians." A min accused Kissinger his government's stance on racist Nairobi business sources say 
in Liberia. so far to swing the United States of visiting only weak nations in South Africa and rebel Rhodesia is Washington is preparing to provide U.S. economic aid to Kenyasolidly in support of black national­Africa and of avoiding confronta­incompatible with the commitment 10 modern fighter planes, plus a 
totaled $17 million in 1974-75, up
ists in southern Africa. tions with revolutionary leaders -of the various African states he will pair of trainer aircraft, to help from $2.6 million three years
The racial struggle against ruling presumably including himself. be visiting," an editorial said. Kenya strngthen its relatively weak before. U.S. officials said they,,·hitc minorities in Rhodesia and Diplomats in Nairobi speculated It warned Kissinger against ap­armed forces against Communist­believed the grants and loans,South Africa, along with economic Amin. chairman of the 47-nation pearing as "an intemperate emis­supplied and potentially trouble­mostly for farm development, ex­issues between the world's rich and 
Organization of African Unity, was sary of a superpower coming to some neighbors in Uganda and ceeded U.S. aid to any other single
poor nations, will dominate Kissin­angered by the omission of Uganda coerce bunch of Neither U.S. Kenyan
dictate to and a Somlia. nor black African country in that year
l!l'r·s discussions with presidents in on Kissinger's tour. The United sovereign nonaligned African officials have confirmed the re­except Ethiopia. ~n L'll nations. and with delegates States closed its embassy in Ugan­states." ports. 
Kissinger was expected to visit at the United Nations conference da in 1973 following a series of Kenyan Vice President Daniel Some 5,00 Americans live in 
Kenyan President Jomo Kenyatta on trade and development in anti-American pronouncements by Arap Moi complained in a speech Kenya. where 140 U.S. companies at Kenyatta's rural residence in ;-.lairnhi. Amin, but did not formally break at a country college dance super­have invested about $220 million. Nakuru. 100 miles from Nairobi. 
HL·yuests for more U.S. economic diplomatic relations. powers were dumping their ideolo­American business investment is 
He was seeking conferences with and military aid will also be The Rev. Ndabaningi Sithole, a gies on Africa and he urged more than double the level of five Finance Minister Mwai Kibaki,rv\ icwcd in most of the scheduled leader of Rhodesia's black national­students to remain neutral. years ago, U.S. sources said, and Foreign Minister Munyua Waiyaki 
l'<lUtllrie~ -Kenya, Tanzania, Zam­ist group, the African National U.S. sources said Kissinger's ranks about fifth among African and Commerce Minister Julius bia. Zaaire, Ghana. Liberia and Council (ANV) said in Tanzania armor-plated Cadillac was being nations, behind U.S. investment in Kiano. Senegal. that he would refuse to meet with flown to each stop ahead of the 
African spokesman say contro­Kissinger. secretary of state as a precaution versy could develop if Kissinger against possible violent demonstra­
Three plays scheduled 
stressed warnings to guerrilla In an interview with the Nairobi tions. But diplomats said no movements against accepting help Daily Nation newspaper, Sithole trouble was expected on what they from the Soviet Union or the 12,000 deaclared the United States seeks described as a "safe tour." 
for weekend showings
Cuban troops now in Angola. "an apartheid-type government in Government media have made 
Manv Africans draw a contrast Zimbabwe Rhodesia. And we say few comments on the trip in The ND-SMC Theatre will pre­this participation play for children. betwee-n the Soviet Union, which categorically that we do not want to Tanzania, the most vocally anti­sent three plays this weekend. Members of the cast are Ann began supplying arms to antiwhite see that type of government or a American and antiwhite minority They include "Godspell,", "Who's Kenny as the Mirrorman, Brooke guerrillas more than 10 years ago, U.S.-backed puppet rule in our country Kissinger will visit. Pres­Afraid of Virginia Woolf?", and Waling as the Toyman, Colleen and the United States. which they country." ident Julius Nyerere is believed "The Mirrorman." Carroll as Beauty the doll, Cid accuse of paying only lip-service to Joshua Nkomo, leader of a more interested in U.S. aid, although Opening Fri., Apr. 23 at 8 p.m. Spindler as the Witch and Mary the cause of black-majority rule. moderate ANC faction, was report­Tanzania has irritated the State in Stepan Center is "Godspell", Ann Ferguson as the Stage Man­These Africans say they welcome edly ready to meet with Kissinger, Department by U.N. votes for the modern musical adaptation of ager. Costume design is by 
independence for Puerto Rico and the Gospel according to St. Mat­Bridget Ragan and set design by for equating Zionism with racism. thew. Continuing performances Debbie Stackow.
Tunnel silence ended Senegal is among the few Afri­are April 24, 29, 30 and May I. Edward Albee's"Who'sAfraid of can nations that have not recogniz­''A circus, a clown show, a magic Virginia Woolf?" will be presented ed diplomatically the Soviet-and show, a game show, a thing of Apr. 24 and 25 at 8 p.m. in
by radio commercials 
Cuban-backed Popular Movement joy", was the way one critic O,Laughlin Auditorium, SMC. government in Angola. described "Godspell". It is a Albee's play revolves around theFORT LAUDERDALE* Fla.-Ev­"It takes from 15 to 20 seconds to presentation of Jesus throught soft interaction between two coupleseryone knows car radios go silent in drive through the tunnel, depend­rock songs and dance, with some of who have just met at a get-ac­long tunnels. If that silence was ing on the traffic,'' Skinner said. 
Deadline tonight 
his closest followers and such quainted party. Their meetinggolden to you, you're in for a "We figured that the driver can 
disappointment in Florida, where a hear a complete 10-second mes-for chariot race Biblical characters as the prodigal begins at 2 a.m. and continues until son, the woman taken in adultery dawn. The hidden hurt and pain
company has wired a tunnel to sage." 
An Tostal chariot teams must and the wealthy man. within each marriage surfaces andbroadcast commercials to any radio Skinner struggled for a year register by midnight tonight with Sean Coleman, as Christ, will a purification results.
that's turned on. before winning a contract with the Mike Hellinghausen, 1181. There preside as head clown leading his Kathleen Rink portrays Martha.
J. Rodger Skinner, a former state Department of Transportation 
is no entry fee. disciples through joyful buffoon­Her husband George, a middle ageadvertising salesman, is betting and permission from th~ ~ederal Each team is to have one ery. Charles Ballinger is directing professor is played by Dan Daily.
most people would prefer to hear Communications Commtsswn to charioteer, who is the rider, and the cast which includes Michael Matt McKenzie will enact Nick, ananything-even commercials and establish the ministation. Under four horsemen. The chariots may Ball, Lisa Colaluca, Patricia Don­ambitious biology teacher who ispublic service announcements-rat­the three-year pact. his firm pays have one or two wheels, butmustbe danville, Thomas Felts, Mark Fer­new to the college. His wife Honeyher than silence while motoring the state $5 I 0 a month for the right man powered. Hellinghausen sug-ring, Sheila O'Brien, Shevawn is played by Cathy Bizard. Sue
through tunnels. to broadcast commercials in the gests that the chariots be construct-O'Conner, Sally Paulis, Matthew Brinkley is directing with costume·'I was driving through the New tunnel. 
ed reasonably safe to "prevent Regan, Steve Rodgers and Robin design by Laurie McCarthy and setRiver Tunnel in Fort Lauderdale "We're not infringing on any­possible accidents." Salem. The multi-colored cos­design by Dan Duncheon.
one day with my radio on.'' Skinner one's rights," he said. "As with The race, to be held Sat.. Apr. 24 tumes are designed by Kathrynsaid. "It was dead space. I didn't any radio station, the listener can at 1 p.m. on the LaCrosse field, will Gaffney with set design by Richard Both The Mirrorman and Vir­
hear anything.'' always turn the radio off.'' 
be proceeded by a parade which Bergman. ginia Woolf are being produced inThe silence spoke to his broad­Skinner, who gave up his job at a will start at 12:30 p.m. in the "The Mirrorman" by Brian Way conjunction with the ND-SMC The­casting instincts. Fill the void and local radio station and persuaded a Alumni-Dillon courtyard. Chariot will be featured Saturday and atre's student series, "Our Second
sell iL he thought. few stockholders to invest in his racersaretobethereby 12:15p. Sunday afternoon at 2 p.m. in the Scene". Admission is free. 
"It hit me. When a motorist Tunnel Radio of America Inc., said A $25 cash prize will be given to Lohhy of O'Laughlin Auditorium, Tickets for all productions maydrives through the tunnel, he'd 
he plans other operations, includ-the winning team. SMC. Kathrene Wales is directing be reserved by calling rather hear anything than dead 
ing broadcasts in some of the + + ++++++++++
space," Skinner said. "Anything. country's best-known tunnels. ••••••••••••• + .... ..........................................~
Any type of mes~age rather than ,... . . 
nothing at all." Beginning Friday, an antenna over each of the tunnel's four lanes 

~~ Graduating Seniors ~~ ·: ~& 'l~ n '/' ·:
will broadcast continuously over ~ Congratulations! After 4 ~ u f)the -entire AM Radio band-the only wav to avoid it will be to turn off the 01111 years of hard v.ork you 01111 ~' 
1 

radio. An experiment Tuesday ~ deserve a new car. No ~ ~ over one lane was successful. 
01111 payrTEnts until August. iilll + ~ ~. +
Each of the individual tO-second 

~ ~ • ·••-rrt~ ~ .. •
advertising or public service mes­sages is repeated 90 times before ~ Call or See Art or Jack at: ~ • + the next message begins. The ~ Metro Unmln-rrerwry ~ • • repetition is designed to ensure t1 wtorist will hear all of a 
1~~~~ka, Indiana I • For All Young Lovers! + 
me~ ...ge before leaving the tunnel, which is about two blocks long. ~ ~.....
.............,..... . 
+ (And Old lovers, & Anyone Else Who Comes) + 
RETURN OF 
:.:
THE DRAGON
1 

• TONIGHT •
FRI. & SAT. 7:45-9:45 
: YOU CAN GET 7&7's FOR ONE THIN QUARTER :
~ DIRTY MARY AND L FRI.-7:30-9:30 CRAZY LARRY 
SAT. & SUN. -1 :30-3:30-5:30-7:30-9:30 
: AND SATURDAY! : 
: Come and see "WORKINGMAN'S TALISMAN" • 
255 -9575 
+ produce some very fine tunes + H 


!' r. r , , · r. r ...-, ,. , ,. , ~ " ,. " .. ·~ "' "'',. , " ,. ,.. ~ ..... ~ "
A • 
Thursday, April 22, 197& the observer 1 1 
United Rubber Workers strike 
CLEVELAND AP  -The striking  however. "a lot of major issues arc  
United  Rubber  Workers  and  the  still before us."  
Firestone Tire &  Rubber Co.  met  Zimmerman said he agreed with  
for  90  minutes  yesterday  then  union  president  Peter  Bommarito  
recessed until this morning with no  that  both sides are still far apart.  
substantial progress reported.  .  Zimmerman said Firestone "is in  
John  Zimmerman.  director  of  a  position to certainly withstand  a  
labor relations for  Firestone,  said  strike of six weeks duration," but  
neither the company nor the union  he was optimistic that a settlement  
budged from earlier positions that  would be reached much sooner.  
led  to  the  strike  at  midnight  
Tuesday by oO,OO URW workers.  Bommarito satd  the  negotiators  
Hut Zimmerman said there was  were so far apart on so many issues  
some progress at yesterday's  ses­ when  bargaining  broke  off  early  
sion in  that several items, mainly  yesterday that he expected yester­ 
the  cost  of  living  adjustment,  day evening's sessions would pro­ 
needed to he claritied.  ,·He said.  duce  only  discussion  with  little  

Carter names Humphrey as stiffest opponent in Pa. 
PITTSBURGH AP-Jimmy Carter said Wednesday he thinks his stiffest competition in next week's Pennsylvania presidential primary will come from avowed noncandi­date Hubert Humphrey. 
The former Georgia governor 
told a new conference in Finleyville 
on Wednesday that Humphrey ''is 
the only one to challenge me in 
popular support." 
Humphrey. who won the Pennsy­
lvania primary four years ago, is 
not a candidate this year. but 
Pennsylvania labour leaders and 
some Democratic ofticials arc urg­
ing voters to elect uncommitted 
delegates who can support the 
Minnesota senator. 
Bowen honors volunteers 
Indiana governor Otis R. Bowen has designated April and May. I ()76. as Volunteer Recognition Months for "volunteers for their contributions to the health. educa­tion. welfare. recreation and cultur­al services of Indiana." 
Volunteer recognition efforts throughout the state will culminate during this time and throughout National Volunteer Week. May lo-2J. During Volunteer Recognit­ion Months, the Governor's Volun­tary Action Program will increase efforts to honor outstanding volun­teers and volunteer programs throughout the state on behalf of the Governor. 
The Governor's Voluntary Action Program was created in May. 1974. to support voluntcerism by provid­ing statewide visibility and recogni­tion and by offering educational assistance to all volunteers agen­cies in Indiana. 
Persons and programs receiving awards will be announced at a later date. 
WANTED 

Wanted: one small refrigerator. Call 
4104. . 
FOR SALE 

Piranha for sale. Call 8645. 
For Sale: Fiat 128 4 door. '73, as new. Call Fernando after 6 p.m.277 0188 
Under Pioneer car stereo cassette player. Used 6 months. Auto re verse. $60. Call Tom 3579. 
Mazda 1973 RX3. 34,000 mi. New tires, air conditioning. $1,000. Call 234 5939 evenings. 
1973 Fiat 128 SL 29,000 miles. $1,300. Call277·2420 afler7 :00 p.m. 
Dual 1229Q changer $180. Call Len 289 8990. Less than 1 yr. old . excellent condition. 
Need a refrigerator for next year?Still have plenty left for a superprice! Call Biv 6891. 
FOR RENT 

For summer Rental. Super 4 bed· room fully furnished house near Jeff. Eddy. Washer, dryer. all utiI· Illes. $175. 234-1972. 
2 rooms $40 a month. 233 1329. 
House· 3 people. $150 plus uti!. 914 Notre Dame, 234·5646. 
Carter will be actively opposed in the Pennsylvania balloting by Sen. Hc·nry Jackson of Washington, Rep. Morris Udall of Arizona, and former Alabama Gov. George Wal­lace. 
Jackson took a break from his Pennsylvania campaign Wednes­day and spent a day campaigning in Indiana. Wallace flew from city to city across the state, conducting a series of airport new conferences. 
Wallace repeatedly attacked jud­ges who he said "have made it easy for the prisoner to spit in the face of h r d h 1 f t e po tee a~. t e peop e 0 our country · · · · 
Carter has predicted he will do · h · d' 
we11 111 t e non-btn tng popu1arity vote. but wouldn't predict how many delegates he will win. .'The crux of the matter depends on the size of the turn-out." Carter said 
. · h t
ht.

I h ave a good fitg mg c ance o come in tiJ"st, but I can't predict that. he said. Hackson has also predicted a win next week. 
Carter held the news conference ~·:~~f~i;~c~52i:~c~i~~;s~ in a coal 
Dressed in miner's gear and 
accompanied by United Mine Workers Union officials and Pitts-progress. 
Firestone offered hourly pay raises totaling $1 .I5 over three years. 60 cents in the first year what it termed an uncapped cost­of-living adjustment plus pension, health and other fringe benefit boosts. 
Bommarito disputed the descrip­tion of the cost-of-living factor as unlimited, saying it wouldn't pro­vide any money until April, 1978 and was restricted by the terms on which it would be triggered. 
And he called the general wage increase "short on what we need for a cost-of-living catchup for 1976 alone." 
He said earlier the URW's total economic demands would raise the current average total package of $9.05 an hour by 42o/o. Current average hourly pay was $5.50, the UI{W sai,d. 
He also said negotiations were continuing with the rest of the Big four--Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. in Cincinnati, B.F. Goodrich Co. in Columbus and Uniroyal Inc. in New York. 
lmmcdiate results of the strike that began at midnight were shut­downs at the Big Four's 47 plants, but there was little effect outside the industry. 
In Detroit, spokesmen for the nation's four major automakers 
estimated tire supplies would last at least two weeks without cutting · d · h h Ch
mto car pro uctton, t oug rys­lcr Corp. said some tire models 
were in "very short supply." 
Picket lines quiet 
· 

Most picket lines were rclattve1y
fi · 

quiet, union and company of tcta1s reported as the strike wore on. But in Marysville, authorities said firebombs thrown at the Goodyear plant entrance ignited a 
~, 

Prof. Guy Mute lectured on Stone Age man and how he made 
tools yesterday at the Old Fieldhouse [Photo by Tony Chifari] 
number of minor blazes, and a concentrating its efforts on Fire­major telephone cable serving the stone, second only to Goodyear in 
U.S. tire production, because thecity was severed. 
URW considers it most capable ofIn Akron. several Goodrich pic-producing a pattern-setting agree­kets were charged with disorderly ment for the industry.

conduct and one was treated for a head wound alleged to have result-Bommarito said to reply to aed from his being struck by a .
qucstton that any settlement accep­

flashlight-wielding deputy at the . table to the URW would force an jail. The deputy was suspended increase in consumer costs, but he pc~ding an invcstiga.tion_.,_ __ said he doubted the rise would be 
l:!ommanto satd the Ut<W was large. 
AN UNTUNED ENGINE WASTES GAS! 
burgh mayor Pete Flahcrty,carter t rode a small mine car on the tive-mile round trip to the nearest • 
$19.95 

Pll:JS PARTS, 
working face of the mine. r 
MOST CARS
Wallace, in news conferences at t the airports in Pittsburgh and A Harrisburg. again called for the r 
MILEX ELECTRONIC TUNE-UP SAVES GAS!
reinstatement of capital punish-a ment. r 
INCLUDES: 

"If we got common sense e-f RUSS & LIBERTY DRIVE nough to be a great people and win MISHAWAKA . 40 Step Engine Analysis World War II and go to the moon, t .Electronic Carburetor Adjust we can work out a system of A ( 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF K-MART) . Calibrate Timing criminal justice that guarantees the r ,30 Step Tune. up rights of a criminal and insures A MON-SAT 8-5 P.M. , Guarantee Parts & Labor 6,000 swift punishment," Wallace said. r miles 120 days "And if they are guilty, they wind t Specialists in Brakes, A-C Clld Electrical Service! 
up in jail and the electric chair.'' -------------------­
.-------------------­
t mJa•Hii:ll:lfiliiHIIIJ~I~I{•l'lHI
f Call for Appointrrent 
f 259-6391 

WITH THIS COUFUNf 

' 
$5.00  t t  
OFF  t '  
!Egular Aice  ' 
MILEX  t  
PRECISION  '  
I  ELECTRONIC  t  
TUNE-UP  t  
I  BRAKE  t  

-~~u_: _ _t 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
Milliken Rentals. 282·2089, 233· Typing wanted pickup and deliv· 5833. House & apartments available ery. 683·7759. for June or Sept. 
Typing 35 cents per page. Call Dan 
Summer houses and rooms for rent . 272-5549. real close to campus. Furnished ridiculously reasonably. 233-2613 or Typing professionally done. 232·7263. Thesis. dissertations, resumes, term 
papers. Barb 259·4894. 
4 & 6 bdr. houses for Sept. 1976. Good neighborhoods near N.D. Rea. Linda's Letters. dissertations, spec.sonable rates. Contact Mr. Gatto ialists, typing at student rates. 
234 6688. 
289·5193. 
2-7 bedroom houses for 3.month Stereo Components . 20·40 percent 
summer rentals. All furnished. Call discount. All quality name brands. 288-6259 after 6 p.m. RMS AudiO, 321 S. Main, 288·1681. M·F, 12:00·6:00. 
3 bedroom house. Avalable May 20. Fireplace, garage, basement. Rent Accurate, fast typing. Hours 8:00 
open to negotiation. Call 237·4023 or a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Mrs. Donoho,
277 ·3461. 232·0746. 
RUGBY SHIRTS IDENTICAL NOTICES SHIRTS AS THE CHEERLEADERS FOR $13.00. IDEAL FOR GIFTS. 
Unsure of plans after graduation? ALSO, FOOTBALL T-SHIRTS IN Try Volunteer Work. Drop in at NAVY OR YELLOW FOR $3.50. Volunteer Services office (1 .5 La For. tune) or call 7308 for info on the HAVING A PARTY? LOWEST many volunteer projects open across PRICES ON KEGS AND CASES. the U.S. and abroad. FREE DELIVERY. DAVE, 277­
0948. 

Sailors . openings for two experien. ced crew to help race winning 3,4' Ride-a·Bike for the retarded thissloop on Lake Michigan. Racing at Sl)nday, 25th. There'll be prizes,Michigan City most Sundays from refreshments and good times. 289·May 15th to Labor Day. Call 4831.
23A 10'6 Mon.-Fri. 
Need ride to Purdue Fri.Sat. Gas· 
driving. Chris 3458. 

Last weekend this semester. GayCommunity of Notre Dame Hotline 8870. Fri. & Sat. 8-10 p.m. Or write Box 206. 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: gold watch between Grotto and Grace Hall or student parking lot. Call Ann 4 4343. 
Lost· gold wire rim glasses by lakes over Easter . Call 288·0060. 
_____,Et;B~O~Ali ____ 
Dear Rats, Happy January 31. Love, mrs. Floyd Weinstock& Family 
P.S. When will Angela come home? 
There once was a Kron who wrote 
limericks, So badly all with to give him a kick,
He crossed over the line, Far past funny, that's fine But once more and we're all going to 
kill you, Mic. 

Good luck on the MCA TS Thomas R! Hope all your punctilious rumina· ting effectuates your recipience to an ostentatious Med school. . I love you even though you are 
mscrutable! Ebulliently yours, Marti 
To the 3 extremes in 294 LeMar': 
Now that the end is In sigh! NC 
can no longer contain our fantasit's. 
Before graduation can you make o••" 
dreams reality? 
The Morrissey Manor M r· 
Red Bud Music Festival Sat. M'l 8th· 10 hrs. of bluegrass, R& B, a • soft rock. 8 bands from Ch icat Kalamazoo, E. Lansing, so. Bend. Concessions and beer with 1. D.'s. RBF on 200 acres 2 mi. north of Buchanan, Mich. on R. B. Trail. Tickets $3.50 advance, $4.00 date. Available thru Boogie Records, Record Joint, Vegetable Buddies. Suspended Chord. 
Nellie and Cye,
Hope you both had a happy Easter. We're looking forward to our second annual picnic. today at 3 
p.m. Tom and Paul 
•rish Wake tix now on sale Wed. Fri. at Stud. Union tix office and dining halls. 
PARTY AT DAVID BOSSY'S THIS 
SATURDAY NIGHT AT CAMPUS VIEW CENTER. 
Am leaving the University, and not 1 alone, no tenure. I want to saygoodbye to the best student body in the world and tell the faculty that whenever the doors of Auschwitz open for one of us little people they 

.. 
open for them too. 
P. Fenelon 
Reference Univ. Library 

12 the observer Thursday, April 22, 1976 
Bookstore field reaches final four 
by Rich Odioso 
night. My apologies, John...WSBT in South Bend has become the latest (and first) station to join the Bookstore Something old. something new, something black and National Television Network. Big Sam Smith will be in 
S(Jnlething blue--that was the story of the quarterfinals attendence at the semis tonight ... Tim Bourret is 'Vednesday night of the Fifth Bookstore Basketball organizing the first annual dunking contest to be held Tournament. 
immediately after the finals. A formidable cast of dunkers Old for Average White Team which motored into the 
including four varsity basketball and three football players Final Four for the second year lassoing the Goat Ropers have been lined up. Anyone who thinks that he (or she) 21-13. 
can dunk-and dunk with flair-should contact Tim at New fur the Nutmeggers who established themselves as 
3470... Plans call for the consolation game at S:30, the the Cinderella team of the tournament with a pulsating championship game at 6:1S and the dunking at 7 on Friday.
26-2-1 defeat of A and the 4 Holes. Black for the skies overhead as TILCS battled darkness SEMI-FINAL PREVIEW and wind in addition to ActS in scoring a 21-14 vistory. Nutmeggers vs. Average White Team at S:30 -The 
Blue (a~ well as black again) for the bodies as Poseidon Nutmeggers' Mike and Mark Meyer are the emerging Ach·cnture muscled a 21-17 win over the Marxists in the stars of the tourney. Both are physical. savvy and good night's mo~t physical fray. shooters and lead a competant cast that plays well 
All leading to tonight's semi-finals which pit the together. Ryan Sullivan is the only unknown quantity in Nutmcggers against Average White Team at S:30 to be the redoubtable A WT lineup of Pohlen, Paterno, Doherty folltm'ed bv TlLCS-Poseidon at 6: IS. and Horton. 
It wao., tile Nutmeggers-A and the 4 Holes game that "I was impressed by the Nutmeggers," says Kevin probably be-.,t ~howed what Bookstore is all about. The Doherty. "We won't take them lightly that's for sure but Nutmeggers. a team of unknowns, shocked a team with a we ha vcn 't taken anyone lightly, at least not since the \ ar~ity hao.,ketball player (Dave Kuzmicz) and a big football 'seminarians gave us a scare early in the tourney." player'( Steve Niehaus) coming from behind in a driving Mike Meyer speaks for the Nutmeggers when he says. rain before a capacity crowd. ·'There's no doubt we'll have to play our best game to beat 
A and the 4 Holes moved to an early lead and them. But I think if we play as well as we can we can beat maintained it throughout the heart of the torrential anybody.'' downpour that descended during the game's middle RICK' PICK -Bookstore experience to prove decisive stretch. AWT, along with TILCS, Nutmeggers and Poseidon down the stretch, AWT 21-18. 
During the rain Niehaus showed himself well equiped Adventure moved into today's semi-finals by virtue of TILCS vs Poseidon Adventure at 6: IS -The epic battle for a career with the Seahawks as he was part fish and part their wins yesterday. [Photo by Tony Chifari] between the big men Laimbeer and Batton should be the bird in dominating the sodden stretch. The teams played highlight of this game. surprisingly well during the rain and play never quite in the second half after a pair of Dave Batton baskets made "They're really a strong overall team," Laimbeer :-cached the travesty stage. it 15-10. comments, "But I think we can match-up man-to-man 
The rain slackened in the game's final rush as the The Goat Ropers hitting only 22 percent from the field against them. The game will probably be won on the Nutmcggers launched a furious rally which carried the shot themselves out of their game with the Average White boards and I'm going to have to keep Dave off them." game into overtime and eventually victory. Team. Goat Roper star Paul Martin was unable to hit Batton tentatively agrees that TILCS is the stronger 
Mike and Mark Meyer. only a sophomore and freshman effectively while bigger and balanced A WT won the battle team. "I think we have to be regarded as the favorites respectively. combined for 19 of the Nutmeggers points. of the boards by a convincing 47-29. Pat Pohlen was mainly because we've played together for a year now but it Kuzmicz finished with 10 but he was unable to pull the chairman of the board with 16. Bill Paterno threw in 10 viii be a close game and an upset is always possible,'' game out by himself in the closing stretches. Despite the baskets and cleared 12 rebounds. Batton says. "I think both Bill and I will be working rain the teams still combined for a respectable 40 percent BOOKSTORE BANTER -Vince Meconi the Godfather of inside. we won't fool around outside in a big game like from the field. Bookstore has returned from his abode in Wilmington. this. I've got my work cut out for me:" 
Bill Laimbeer hit 10 of 18 from the field enroute to an 11 Delaware to watch the finals of the monster he has RICK'S PICK -Laimbeer a slight edge in the battle but point performance as Poseidon Adventure literally created ... Onc of the most incredible statistics in the TILCS team strength will win the war. TILCS, 21-17. outfought a rugged Marxist team. representing the Law history of basketball is being claimed by Tim Bourret. As School. The Marxists hammered and sickled at Poseidon hard as it is to believe Tim claims that Bill Laimbeer and LAST NIGHT'S BOOKSTORE BOXSCORES: throughout the game and were whistled for 18 fouls. Their S-8 Mark Arminio each had 7 rebounds in last night's 
Average White Team 21 (Paterno 10, Pohlen 3. Dohertyobjections to the officials were overruled. Indeed several Poseidon Adventure game... many people have been 
2. Sullivan 2. Horton 4), Goat Ropers 13 (Jerkins 4. 
of them appeared in contempt of court at times but no wondering about the origin of the Poseidon Adventure Martin S, Stock 1. Zipf 0, Conaty 3). technicals were called. team name. Both Arminio and Laimbeer are from Palos 
Nntmeggers 26 (Mike Meyer9, Mark Meyer 10. Howard Laimbeer and Jim Fritsch helped Poseidon to the early Verdes (Cal.) High School whose team nickname is the 3. Powers 3. Pink 1), A and 4 Holes 24 (Niehaus 7, lead and they were able to withstand a Marxist comeback Poseidons ... Who is Terry Buck after whom the Terri Buck 
Kuzmicz 10. Hogan 2. Labenski 2. O'Brien 3).led by driving Dana Snoap and bank-shooting Greg Kemp. sectional was named. Check replays of the 1970 Notre Poseidon Adventure 21 (Laimbeer 11. Fritch6, Vangrin­The Hoosiers (and their bretheren) were humming early Dame-USC game during which her performance as a 
sven 3. ArminioO. Charles 1). Marxists 17 (Marx 1. Snoap as TILCS and Act 5 set a torrid shooting pace in the early distraught Notre Dame cheerleader looking beautiful 7. McAuliffe 3, Mooney 3, Kemp 3).going. TILCS behind the exotic antics of Billy Sahm and despite a driving rainstorm earned her a screen test...for TILCS 21 (Kirby 1. Sahm S, Kelly 4, Batton S, the more stolid but also more effective inside work of John those following the continuing saga of John Dubenetzky Dubenetzky 6), Act S 14 (Christensen 2, Harrison 4. Dubenetzky pulled to an 11-9 lead at the half. ActS tired and his shooting percentage he was a sparkling 6 for 8 last 
Lisch4. Burke 2. Hilmer 2) 
Notre Dame nine stumble again 
by Ray O'Brien replay as the Ferris State catcher Fred Morley singled to left bring­
drove the ball to the same spot ing home the final run. 
Notre Dame's baseball team Gottschalk's blast landed. Notre Dame got two men on base nosedived to their seventh straight NotreDamebounced back in their in the bottom of the seventh inning loss, 8-S. yesterday in a rain half of the sixth inning. Second but couldn't sustain a rally. Once delayed game against Ferris State baseman Frank Fiaski singled to again the Irish failed to put it all of Big Rapids, Michigan. The Irish center, captain Bot Stratta drew a together. The hitting was there but had 11 hits to the Bulldogs eight walk, and Dave Lazzerri singled to careless fielding and baserunning 
*Observer 
Sports 
but six Notre Dame errors led to left to load the bases. Walburn threw the game away. Besides the their downfall as four unearned picked up his second and third poor fielding two Irish players were runs corssed the plate for Ferris RBI's of the game as he doubled up picked off base. Stoltz pitched well State. the middle. Stoltz came to his own in the early going but let a few hist 
Notre Dame opened up the aid again by knocking home the and errors fluster him in the end. scoring in the bottom of the fourth. final run with a single to left to tie Notre Dame was spared in theCrew team off to fast start; First baseman Dave Lazzerri trip­the score S-S. second game thanks to rain which 
capture 8 of first 1 0 races 
led with two outs. Tom Walburn Ferris State broke the tie in the postponed it before the start. followed with a double to get the seventh inning as Leta vis singled to The Irish will be trying to Irish on the scoreboard. Pitcher left field. Letavis moved to second reorganize this weekend. They 
The Irish crew is off to its best women started behind, fought Mitch Stoltz helped himself out at on a sacrifice and then scored what play a double-header home Satur­start ever, having won eight of ten back, only to. lose narrowly at the the plate by singling home Wal­proved to be the winning run on a day against inter-city rival Bethel races so far. After their spring finish with a 3.17 timing. burn but he was thrown out trying single by Joe Comptom. On the State. Sunday the team travels to break in Washington, D.C., the to go to second on the play to the next play Stoltz threw wild to first Michigan State for a big double­men· s varsity and novice crews plate ending the inning. base allowing Compton to score. header against the Spartans.
Soccer club ties
casilv disposed of Mercyhurst Col­Ferris State retaliated in the top lege. At their home opening In recent action Coach Bob of the fifth after manageing only rc~atra. Notre Dame had its first Connolly's Notre Dame club socGer one hit earlier. Disignated hitter 
,f the season as both the team ran up against a stiff wind John Gottschalk opened up the mc1. · and women's crews looked and an even stiffer defense as they inning by singling up the middle. impressive. tied their two games against De­Stoltz then struck out Bulldog 
This past Easter weekend, the Paul, 1-1. and Northwestern, 0-0. catcher Mark Caswell and got crew can_Jc up against its first big In earlier outings the story of the leftfielder Tom Wallace to pop to test of the vear. as Notre Dame game had been the offense, but the second baseman. Irish short­raced Michigan State and Nebras­over the weekend it was tough stop Rick Pullano whose fielding ka. The Irish style and power defensive checking led by John had been a bright spot in a rather proved to be too much for Michigan "Thunder" Thornton and Jim bleak early season, muffed a State as both the Notre Dame Humboldt that paced the Irish. grounder which could have ended \'arsity and novice men's boats won In the nets for the Irish was Mark the inning. Leftfielder Mike Gallo­
their respective races by large Klien who excelled throughout the way then dropped a fly ball which margins. weekend swing to the Chicago allowed two Ferris State runs to Notre Dame dueled with Nebras­area. Klien was especially busy score. All three runs were unearn­
ka throughout the course but came against Northwestern, stopping ed as Ferris State jumped ahead 
up short by five seconds. In one of_ two shots from point blank range. 3-2. 
the closer races of the day, the Sunday, Roman Klos continued Ferris State picked up two more 
... 
novice women edged their Nebras­his torrid scoring pace, recording runs in the sixth inning. Again ka opponents by one second. Jn the the only Irish tally of the weekend Stoltz needed only one more out to next race, the novice men won by against DePaul. This, along with finish the inning when Gottschalk the largest margin of the day, the defensive efforts of Steve blasted a home run over the left rowing a 6.08 time. In the women's Houle, kept the Irish soccer squad field fence. Mark Caswell followed varsity race, the Notre Dame undefeated this season. with what looked like an instant 





