

By Academic Council members 
Possible Council changes weighed 

voting procedure~. and the possi­bility of open meetings while offering suggestions for council improvements. 
William Bula. student repre­sentative of the Engineering Col­lege. stated that the Academic Counl·il as a bodv is dedicated to the "educational 'excellence of the University as a whole." He explained that the Council's posi­tion as academic affairs legislator at the University makes it the most important committee on campus. 
John Borsious, student repre­sentative of the Arts and Letters College, supported Bula's state­ment of the basic council goal, which is to the "overall betterment of the University." He was vehemently opposed to a more political orientatio~, saying ~t "defeat the purpose of the counctl by creating factions within the group. 
All of the members interviewed agreed on the University orienta­tion of the council, but varying opinions appeared on the question of representative responsibility. 
Dr. Isabel Charles, Dean of the Arts and Letters College and an Ex Oflicio member of the council. explained. "You are elected not only as a representative. but as a thinking member of the body." Charles went on to say that the representatives are appointed or elected because of their "good sense and intelligence." 
The members are then "privy to a whole series of discussions that their constituents have not been privy to.'' 
For this reason, Charles and 
most of the members questioned 
said that the voting is based on 
one's own judgement. Burke said, 
"If you're a member of the they wouldn't have made it to the Council." 
A few of the members question­ed placed more emphasis on their "constituency." Brosious said of the student representatives, "Ob­viously. we should represent the student point of view." Bula agreed while Academic commis­sioner Michael Gassman recogniz­ed a dual purpose: "I have to work for the academic interest of the University and for what the stu­dents want." 
Dr. Robert Williamson, elected faculty representative of the Busi­ness Administration, said, "The elected member should definitely solicit opinions from his constitu­ents. Frankly, when I do go in and vote, it's my own opinion. Only a 
couple  of times  this  is  different  
from my constituents."  
Representation  was  a  point  of  

dissent among those questioned. 
Gassman stated. "The council is obviously not representative. Stu­dent representation is near nil. Faculty representation is not strong enough to give it a voice against the representatives of the Administra­tion." 
He also mentioned that there are "too many Arts and Letters repre­sentatives" and not enough from the Business school. Joseph Fiorella, the student representative from the Business College, agreed, but Williamson explained that the number of representatives from each college is determined by the number of faculty in the college. He pointed out that "there are fewer faculty in the Business College." 
Williamson added that he sees "no lack of understanding of the needs of the business school." Williamson disagreed, however, 
-~------­
·~-------·----------------­
... 

Socialist women urge rejection of current U.S. capitalist system 
by Pat Payne not owning companies, "are ex­explained why the most recent 
Staff Reporter ploited." women's liberation movement 
She continued to say that "work­failed. "The women's movements 
Socialist action is the only pos­ing people have to take over and of the past were based on liberating sible method to achieve women's organize against employers." This self through personal development; equality and liberation, two Social­is necessary for the preservation of nothing changed but fashion." ist Party activists told a small "job safety, wages, and the right to Katy added, "Women still make gathering in the LaFortune Amphi­unionize, all of which are being only 59 per cent of what men make. theater last night. fought against by employers," Since 1920, hours spent in the 
The program, entitled, "Femin­Doreen said. kitchen haven't changed, although ist Revolution" was sponsored by Doreen noted that, although 40 per cent of all women now the Notre Dame Radical Education women make up 40 per cent of the work." "The few gains did
we Project (ND-REP) to commemorate working force, they receive few make were wiped out," she noted. International Women's Day. NO­luxuries. "Women have two jobs -Katy then provided three rca~­REP is a recently-formed student one paid and one in the home," she ons "persuading anyone to adoptclub whose main purpose is to said. socialism. People are out of work. "make people become aware of factories lie idle, and companies all class oppression in the United In a study undertaken by the over ,t,he world need people to 
States." 
New York Times in 1972, the work. Speaking for the International average housewife was worth She added, "We must get rid of Socialist Party, the speakers cited $7000 in wages, Doreen reported. the profit system and go for broke the failures of women's liberation She asserted that "men benefit to throw out the present system." attempts past and present; the little from what the capitalist "Women are part of the building 
constant exploitation of women in system benefits 100 per cent." She force to get working people to terms of wages, employment and concluded by stressing that as soon democratically run society... Work­equality; and said solutions were as women obtain rights for abor­ing women can take control." Katy 
possible only if workers take over tion, day-care centers, equal jobs stated. factories and unions. and pay, they'll help the Interna­The discussion was followed by a 
The first woman to speak, who tional Socialist Party "destroy the movie about a coalminers' strike in called herself Doreen, pointed out capitalist hold over workers." the 1930's in which women played that all workers, meaning anyone Katy, the other speaker, then a key role. 

Diamond: Declaration of Independence comprises equal political freedom only 
by Terry Keeney American equality and democ­with aristocratic men in their Editor-In-chief racy conflict with the more radical, attempts to become god-like. The American notion of equality "enthusiastic" notions of egalitar­According to Diamond. political 
found in the Declaration of Inde­ian democracy of Marxism­philosophers like Hobbes, Locke, pendence is limited to equal pol­Leninism and the Jacobin regime of and Machiavelli provided the phil­itical liberty, and constitutes . a the French Revolution, Diamond osophical foundation of the Declar­
cautious and sober approach to said. ation. What he termed the "New democracy, according to Martin Although the Declaration recog­Science of Politics" departed from Diamond, professor of political nizes inequality based on talent ancient tradition by providing a science at Northern Illinois Univer­and virtue, the Founders rejected realistic view of man, not as divine, sity. the ancient political notion that but as self-interested. 
Diamond yesterday told his aud­only the best or most virtuous ''This realistic view of human ience at the second day of the Notre should be entitled to rule the state. nature is the philoso~hical founda­Dame Bicentennial Conference, 
"The Deda,.tion do" not d] tion of the American view of that the Declaration recognizes equality with.. sobriety and human inequality based on unequal caution," D;amond said. distribution of talent and virtue The New 'Science of Politics. among men and women. especially the phtfosophy of John 
"The Declaration does not mean Locke, democratized the ancient by equality anything like a general view of politics that influenced the equality," Diamond said. "The Founders. Although the Declara­equality of the Declaration consists tion made no provision for democ­entirely in the equal entitlement of racy, it laid the groundwork for the all to what comprises political democracy of the Constitution and liberty and nothing more.'' altered political thought. Diamond 
Diamond pointed out that the claimed. Declaration does not specify the "The Declaration can be said to form of government that best take a democratic view of life in guarantees equal political liberty. general." Diamond argued. The Constitution by setting up the The Bicentennial Conference democratic system provides the continues through Thursday. The means toward the end of equal schedule includes a variety of liberty. Dr. DIAMOND academic lectures, receptions and 
"Democracy is not the end of that men may be unequal, but performances to celebrate the Bi­government, but the means to that's not an entitlement to rule," centennial. achieve true ends, namely equal Diamond said. "No man is deemed It is sponsored by Notre Dame political liberty," Diamond said. to rule another without the other's and St. Mary's College with grants 
The Founders established the consent." from the Indiana American Revolu­Constitution with a "prudent self­Diamond traced the history of tion Bicentennial Commission, the doubt toward the ability to secure political thought and its effect on Indiana Arts Commission and the equal political liberty," Diamond equality in America. Under. the Indiana Committee for the Human· said. The doubts were based upon ancient political theory of Plato and ities in cooperation with the the "chilling" realization of mas­Aristotle, politics was by and for National Endowment for the Hu· sive social and political inequality. the few. Politics was concerned manities. 

r 

---News Briefs--­
t:==========Intemational 
Beatles together again 
LONDON --The Beatles are getting together again for a concert in America, a columnist for the Dally Mirror said yesterday. Paul Callan wrote in the mass-circulation Mirror that 66-year-old Harold Harrison, father offormer Beatie George Harrison, told him: 
"George has relented, after some hesitation, and the boys have all agreed to do the show in the United States and possibly stay together for other shows." 
Political crackdowns continue 
SEOUL, Korea --President Chung Hee Park's authoritarian government kept up its crackdown on political opponents Monday with security agents seizing a former presidential candidate, his wife and a legislator, witnesses said. 



a-On Campus Toda!J'--.. 
2 the observer 'Tuesday, March 9, 1976 
9 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
12:15 p.m. 2:30p.m. 
4:30p.m. 
5 p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8 p.m. 
8:15 p.m. 
--bicentennial festival, "the religious dimension of americana aspirations," by prof. sidney ahlstrom, cce 
--bicentennial festival, liturgy, celebrant fr. james t. burtchaell, sacred heart. 
--mass, Iafortune ballroom. 
--bicentennial festival, "is america in any sense chosen?" by prof. peter berger, cce. 
--seminar, "field trials of chromosome trans­locations for genetic control of the yellow fever mosquito," by john I. petersen, rm. 278, gal aud. 
--bicentennial festival, "twentieth century american music," by samuel adler, little theater. 
--meeting, charismatic prayer, Iafortune rathskellar. 
--lecture "new dimensions in civil rights and liberties 'under the berger court," by prof. henry j. abraham, henry I. and grace daugherty, rm. 101, law 
school. 
--bicentennial festival, "my heart's in the high­lands," by william saroyan, o'laugh aud. 

Dr. Robert E. Burns, associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame , has been named one of 26 outstanding college and university teachers in a national report on improved teach­ing published in the current issue of Change magazine. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1957, Burns was honored for his work in developing computer-managed instruction (CMI) in his subject field of history. 

Convinced that teachers must be free to transmit more than content in the courses, he worked with Dr. William I. Davisson, associate dir­ector of the Social Science Training and Research Laboratory at Notre 
Dame, to prepare a bank of multiple choice sequences trans­mitting essential information on history, culture and values. 
The information is programmed 
in simple computer language adap­
table to any terminal on the campus 
and is exportable to other campus­
es. Questions are short and consist 
of a short lead, the question itself, 
four answer choices, and explana­
tions of why and how answers are 
right and wrong. The history 
program is on the terminals every 
TUES, MAR. 9 
Since St. Pat's Day falls over break, we'll be j~j: celebrating it tonight! 





Ito~~::hi~~~=~{~;ish 
:·:· 8-8:30 $.05 BEERSI8:3G-9:30 $.25 BEERS 
~1~~ $.50 mixed drinks all night 
As bicentennial college 
SMC receives recognition 
by Margie Irr 
Staff Reporter 

Indiana Governor Otis Bowen awarded St. Mary's College recog­nition as a Bicentennial College in a ceremony in Stapleton Lounge on Friday. 
Bowen presented Dr. John M. Duggan, St. Mary's College presi­dent, with an official Bicentennial Flag and certificate of distinction. Before the presentation, Bowen spoke to approximately 100 mem­bers of the administration, faculty and student body. 
"The successful pursuit of Bi­centennial College recognition is indicative of an educational institu­tion with both a deeply abiding sense of understanding and respect 
for our democratic heritage and a forward-looking attitude of hope and confidence in the continuing 
future greatness of our American nation," Bowen stated. "St. Mary's College is such an institution of higher learning,'' he 
The Observer is publiShed Monday through Friday and v.eekly during the sumner session, except during the exam; and vacation periods. The Observer is publiShed by the students of the Univ. of Notre Darre and St. Ma-y's College. Subso"iptions may be purchased for $18 ($10 per semester) fro, The Observer. Box Q, Notre Darre, Indiana 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Darre, IN 46556. 
added. 
According to Dr. Jack Detzler, chairman of St. Mary's Bicenten­nial Committee, community in­volvement was an important con­sideraton of the Natonal Bicenten­ial Commission in choosing St. Mary's. 
St. Mary's music department is cooperating with the South Bend community in the planning of a Bicentennial pageant for July 4. Also the college must plan activi­ties of lasting value. Histories of the college and the Holy Cross Sisters have been prepared for this purpose. St. Mary's has worked in conjunction with the University of Notre Dame on this week's Bicen­tennial Festival and Conference. Upon presentation of the award, Duggan spoke for St. Mary's. "Thank you, Govenor Bowen, for bestowing this flag on St. Mary's College, and for picking such an appropriate day," Duggan added, referring to Friday's windy weath­er. 
The presentation was followed by a reception where the govenor met informally with those attend­ing. 
ERRATUM 

Kathleen Comfrey and June Gottschalk won the first and second dean's prizes in Saturday's Moot Court Competition. Comfrey was one of two counselors for the respondent and Gottschalk was a counselor for the petitioner in the court battle which ended in a draw. The dean's prizes included cash awards. 

~ir Richdrd's 
BARBER STYLING
I ® 
UNISEX HAIR SULING 
129 DIXIEWAY SOUTH ROSELAND IN PORTAGE REALTY BUILDING 277.0734 
THURS, MAR. 11 
$.25 7 & 7 7-11 


MON, MAR. 22 :-:· 
Date~:~. ::~~~her; w::::::::::::a:d \I 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT :::: 
"WORKINGMAN'S TALISMAN" hopefuUy resting and ~ 
. e~joya~~e spring break 111~ 
;:.::::::::::~:~:~:==~=~==~=:~:::::~:::~=~~:~==~:::!::~:~:::::===:~::Z::::::~:=:::::::~:===:=t::::::.:::::~=:~::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::::::::!::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::~:::~:::::::::::::::~ 



. 

Tuesday, March 9, 1976 
the observer 




Smelser highlights causes of U.S;. Revolution 
by Kathy Mills Senior Staff Reporter 

The American Revolution was a mild revolution staged by reluctant rebels for limited goals which were in their reach, asserted Marshall Smelser, professor of history at Notre Dame. Smelser spoke to approximatley 40 people yesterday morning in the Center for Continu­ing Education on "Understanding the American Revolution" as part of the Bicentennial Festival and Conference. 
Rejecting economics as a major cause of the Revolution, Smelser said, "It was British policy that roused discontent in an otherwise­contented people." Smelser cited the British policy of taxation on the colonies. 
"The British decided to make the Anglo-Americans pay for a large part of the standing army which wa~ to he kept, threateningly, in the colonies. They decided to levy taxc~ and make the colonists pay for the administration of these taxes,'' he pointed out. 
Thc policy issue at stake, accord· 1ng to Smelser, was that the royal governors would not need the local as.,emhlics if the colonists could he 
Ombudsman announces Brainstorm award winners 
Mike Mountford has won the $76 

grand prize in the Ombudsman 
Service's Second Annual Operation 
Brainstorm. 
Mountford's winning idea was 

that the Student Union should 
operate a student employment 
service which would publish a list 
of joh opportunities on campus and 
in South Bend. 
Nine other winners were chosen 

by the panel of five judges for their 
proposals in three categories: 
service, social and policy. 
In the service category, Amy Thornton placed first with her suggestion that summer storage be held in two orthrce rooms in each section of each dormitory so that thl•rc would be no need to remove possessions to another site. 
Midge May and Nancy Budds tied for second place by suggesting that the Huddle offer limited amounts of grocery store items. Mary Siegel placed third by pro­posing a baby-sitting service. 
In the social category, Sally Stanton placed first by proposing a sidewalk cafe to encourage outdoor sot·ial gatherings. 
Second place was awarded to Brian Kirk for suggesting a roller­skating party, and third place went to John McAustin, who asked for a 'SO's day and dance. 
For policy proposals, Kevin 
Busch examines 
oil exploration 

tomorrow night 
Dr. Daniel A. Busch, American Association of Petroleum Geolo­gists distinguished lecturer, will discuss the integration of many scientific disciplines in modern exploration for major petroleum reserves in a lecture Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Notre Dame Earth Science Building, room 101. 
Sponsored by Notre Dame's Department of Earth Sciences, the lecture is open to the public without charge. 
compelled to pay these taxes. "This brought fear from those who took pride in the assemblies and participated in them," he explain­ed. 
''Any policy which provokes such anger and outrage in prosperous colonies could not have been a very prudent policy," he declared. 
Wisdom lacking 

Smelser mentioned other differ­ences between the colonists and the British, including mistrust of Anglican bis;hops in the colonies and conflicting claims to western lands. ''Despite these differences, a reorganization of America might have been carried off if it had been done by wise men," he observed. 
"A wiser government in West­minister might have led the Ameri­cans better," Smelser continued. "They could have been made to feel at home in the Empire. But wisdom was scarce." 
Smelser also said the colonists were prone to violence and psycho· logically ready for disobedience long before they rebelled against British policy. "Before the Revolu­tion, the Anglo-American staged 18 attempts to overturn colonial gov-
Dickerson won for calling for the re-institution of sophomore class officers. 
Fred Haaser placed second by proposing that an interior map of the ACC be placed in du Lac and William Shaughnessy captured third with his suggestion that smoking in dining halls or class­rooms be subjected to rigid limits. 
About 70 ideas were submitted to the contest. 
First-prize winners will receive two free tickets to the Pittsburgh football game next year. Second­place finishers will receive Me­Donalds gift certificates worth three dollars and third-placers will get an 8 by I0 glossy photograph of their favorite Notre Dame persona­lities. 
Judging the contest were Om­budsman representatives Matt Cockrell and Robin Lavendar; Richard Sullivan, registrar; Robert Watkins, director of purchasing, and Robert Waddick. assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters. 
Ideas which did not win prizes will be kept and reviewed later and the originator of the idea will be given credit if his proposal is implemented, Ombudsman sources said. 
THE 

RESUME PLACE 
2 5 8 1/2 X 11 HJ\C BOND Only $2.55 


insly·prints 
203 SO.BEND, IND 
289-6977 
ernments," he noted. "Six of these were violent." 
He also mentioned the violence of the colonists' encounters with Indians and said international wars were endemic in the colonies before the Revolution. "Mob action was common," he added. 
Loyalists' role 

"Perhaps the worst mistake of the British was to overestimate the power of the Loyalists," Smelser said. He pointed out British Loyalists actually comprised less than one-fifth of the population in the colonies. 
"In the North, they were passive or they huddled behind the army," he continued. ''Only south of Virginia were there Loyalist lead­ers. and here they were rebel partisan bands warring against other rebel partisan bands." 
Smelser added, "British leader­ship did not sparkle." 
According to Smelser, the tem­perment of George Washington was probably the single most important ingredient in the Ameri· .:an military victory. He noted rebel propaganda was skillful and "won the contest for public loyal­ty." 
"Independence was one thing on which all American rebels a­greed," he stated. 
He emphasized the American------------------Rvolution was not a social revolu-~RMANDO IS NOW lOCATED NEAR CAMPUSf 
tion. "There were many incidental social changes. but they were not fTO GIVE YOU THE CUl OR STYLE YOU WAN"Jt
l

uniquely American," he said.  __a J ' C-!'Uili:UZ o .1  ·-, I'~a7.v.::oz  & .  II~l•li'Z  \.~ L'..c.:::.Jt!) e  , ' ~/li.)/1  A :'  
War brings changes  0 PEN SIX DAYS A W E E K  
One change effected by the Revolution, Smelser pointed out, was it fixed the form of government  I  MC•,'. i THRU FRIDAY 6 TO 5.30 SATURDAY t! TO 4 PERSONAL/ZED SERVICE  a f  
as  republican and distributed the  A ARMAND() FEMIA  1437 N. IRONWOOD C.'R  A  
attributes of the king among the pe~~Tteh.e Revolution also had a  ' PHONE 277·06'5 tFOR APPOINTMENT  SOUTH BEND  INDIANA  f f  

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

to spend a summer of study in unusually pleasant surroundings choosing from a wide Vdriety of courses taught by distinguished Stanford facult\ and visiting professors. Courses offered include: 
• Environmental Field Geology and Land-Use Planning in California ~ 
Cultural Pluralism • Basic Drawing, Painting, Printmaking, Photography 
Ill Psychology of Law • Mass Media Institute Ill Aeronautics and Astronautics • Computer-Generated Music II American Studies • Film Aesthetics Ill Women in American Society • and many others. 
If you arc an undergradu<~te or gr<~du<ite student .It another colll'ge or university, .1 graduate of a rccogni;ed collegl' or universit', u1 .1 person .lgL·d twenty-live or over, then you're eligibll' to e,.roll in thl' 
STANFORD SUMMER VISITOR PROGRAM 1976 Jum· 21 to August 14 
Write or call for more informution: ~ Stanford Summl'r Vi~itor Program 
Building I, Room 2A Stanford, Ctlifo1 ni.1 94305 (415) 497-3109 
cosmetic effect," he stated. "It hid 
the oppression of slavery. Not only 
did it not abolish slavery, but in 
the 70 years following the ratifica­
tion of the Constitution, the rights 
of black people became fewer." 
Smelser said he thinks the 
phrase, "All men are created 
equal/' in the Declaration of 
Independence was intended to 
indicate the colonists were equal to 
the people in Britain. 
He called the Declaration of 
Independence "an historical doc­
trine of interest but not binding." 
Smelser noted the colonists did not 
apply universally the natural law 
doctrines contained in the docu­
ment. 
"They did not even apply them to their own society,'' he remarked. The broadening of applications of these doctrines, he said, occurred in later times. 
The Americans negotiated a "truly splendid treaty" in Paris after the Revolution was over, Smelser commented. "They won because they learned how diplo­macy operated in Europe better than the Europeans," he stated. 
Smelser termed the Constitution a "financial bargain" at about $12,000 in 1976 dollars. "It was not a philosphical treatise," he stated. "It was a successful working paper to meet the needs of the 1780's." 
The Bicentennial Festival and Conference, which will run through Thursday is entitled "An Almost Chosen People: The Moral Aspira­tions of Americans," and is spon­sored by Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
Author and educator 
Smelser was educated at Quincy 
College, St. Louis University and 
Harvard University. He was a 
member of the faculties at St. Lousi 
University and St. Thomas College, 
St. Paul., Minn. 
He joined the Notre Dame faculty 
in 1947 and served as chairman of 
the Department of History from 
1960 to 1963. 
Smelser received the Guggcn­hcim Fellowship in 1963 to con­tinue work on a history of the United States from 1801 to 1817. He held the Forresta! Fellowship for Research at the U.S. Naval Academy from 1956 to 1957. In 1955 he was named Walgrcl·n Lecturer at the University of chica· 
go. 
Smelser has published man~ magazine articles and books on United states history. His most recent work is The Winning of Independence. part of a six-volume bicentennial series. His biography of Babe Ruth. The Life Thai Ruth Buill, was published in 1975 


~ -~ ---~---·------~ ---~ 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

Foundt'd November 3, 1966 

The Observer is published by the students of the University EDITORIAL BOARD of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief 
reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported 
AI Rutherford Managing Editor 
as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent 
the opinion of mentaries are  a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­the views of individual editors. Opinions,  Jim Eder Pal Hanifin  Executive Editor Editorial Editor  
cartoons  and  regular  columns  express  the  views  of  their  Bob Mader  News Editor  
authors.  Column space is available to  all  members of the  Maureen Rynn  Campus Editor  
community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free  Mary Janca  St. Mary's Editor  
expression of varying opinions on campus.  Ken Bradford  Copy Editor  
Editorials: 28J~ 171S  News: 283-8661  Business: 283-7471  Val Zurblis Tom O'Neil  Wire Editor Feature9-Editor  
Business Manager  Tom  Modglin  Bill Brink  Sports Editor  
Advertising Manager  Tom  Whelan  Dan Sanchez  Senior Night Editor  
Tuesday, March 9, 1976  




'The Worst Government' 
The mock convention held over the candidate is quite realistic (howeverweekend was billed as a learning exper­unpleasant some may find it).
ience about how American parties really It was in fact the thought that the choice 
choose presidential nominees. That it was, of America's next president might be but some of the participants did not like riding on the early morning votes of a what they learned. As one slightly shocked crowd wavering between being a largedelegate said after watching the conven­party or a small riot that disturbed so many
tion in action, "Is this the way my of the delegates. Is there not a more government is run?" 
rational way to make so important a choice?
Actually it pretty much is. The conven­There may be but America has not found tion, thanks to the tremendous efforts put it yet. And there is in fact something to beinto it by the organizers, was a generally said for the way we do it now. Democraticwell-organized and well-run model of the politics has been properly defined as thereal thing. The realism included the art of compromise and its basic tool is talk. 
atmosphere of chaos generated when The compromises may seem unprincipledvarious people simultaneously gave and the talk boring. But the alternative tospeeches, listened to speeches, cheered, occasional compromise is permanent divis­booed, talked, wandered about and cauc­ion; and the alternative to fighting out theused, all in the same auditorium. The issues orally on the convention floor isspeeches were certainly realistic, varying fighting them our physically on the street.
from the most boring political absurdities The conventions encourage compromise (ifto the kind of pep-rally oratory that nearly only because of the lateness of the hour)had the crowd singing the Fight Song in and give everyone a chance to talk theirthe aisles. 
way to some sort of (hopefully rational) 
Many delegates complained that their agreement. In their chaotic fashion they colleagues had let the lateness of the hour, give the people a voice in the nomination of rather than the greatness of the candidate, their future leaders. determine their nominee when, at 4:20 Certainly the mechanics of selecting a.m., they selected Hubert Humphrey. But presidents could be improved. But regard­time is a factor in the real conventions as ing the basic democratic system the well and 4:15 a.m. will be as bleak an hour delegates can learn from their recent in New York as it was in South Bend. experience the lesson best expressed by Considering the number of contenders the Winston Churchill: "Democracy is the possibility of a deadlocked convention worst form of government except for all the agreeing to Humphrey as the compromise others.'' 



P.O. Box Q 
you gave me to express myself well could be, and they do haveThanks! freely. In general the editing was their moments. How many bars very good, though the slant was are gay? Most of them are sad, Dear Editor: 
just terrible. I remember the last with some exceptions like Fat thing I said as I shook hands with Wally's, Nickies when it's crowdedI am writing this letter to express the editor and reporter was,'' Please and Corby's during prime time.
my appreciation to all of the people don't put any morbid or dismal 4)" and I couldn't understandwho helped me during my precious pictures with this article." You did why I would do this night afterordeal on the evening of Wed., 
it. Partly my fault. I was too night,'' could be misinterpreted asFeb. 25, when a faulty door in trusting. I meant it when I said, having sex. I meant night afterFisher Hall resulted in my receiv­ing numerous lacerations and abra­
"Put a Fighting Irishman with the night trying to per~uade others to article." You're not haptic, so I drop their way of life. I wassions. 
guess you tried a logical treatment. deceiving myself by thinking that it 
I would especially like to thank Fr. Carl Ebey, Stephen Kendra, B. 
Three corrections of mistakes, could be done in the context in 
J. Kilbride, John Gallina, and Mike mostly due to time involved and which they lived. I stated that I 
typographical-errors, all on column protected myself by friends and aCarpenter for their magnanimous one: life style that sheltered me fromand benign efforts in my behalf. 
1) There was no way of interpret­ever having to face my homosexu­I would also like to thank all of ing the sense of "objectively, this ality. This makes the next state­the people who not only tried to calls for prudence," but this was a ment logical--"I came to Notreameliorate the situation, but show­panning of the Vatican's statement Dame and was stripped of all myed genuine care and concern. 
on sexual morality. defenses."
I pray to God that the future holds nothing but the best for each 
2) "Thought I must lead this Now the first day of encountering of these people and I sincerely hope experience totally." should read comments was generally favorable. 
that someday I might be able to "thought I must leave this experi­There was also talk of some having repay even a small part of the debt 
ence totally." (May I say, this was hostility and fear. It reminds me of positive, because without the inten­the Bengal Bouts. Maybe I should that I owe them. 
tion of love, which I didn't have at go a few rounds with those who are the time, this was a very prudent so kind and sincerely opposed toThomas Oleniczak thing to do.) me so we could embrace and 
3) "Gay bars, I think they're the make-up. As to those who feel
Gay 

saddest places," should read, "gay threatened by my statement: as bars are misnamed, because they Winston Churchill said, "That is a are the saddest places." I person­bunch of nonsense up with which IClarifications ally think they would be better if will not put." they were places of enjoyment. Sincerely in Notre Dame, Dear Editor: People go there to find sex, not Your Haptic Fighting Irishman Thank you for the opportunity enjoyment. Gay they are not, but 
Clifford' de Aragon 

opinion'!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Nuts or Guts? 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitim o 're ile y 
If nothing else, the Mock Convention enhanced California's reputation as America's leading producer of fruits and nuts. 
As the ballots and hours progressed, what began as a murmur of discontent with the California delegation's consistent support of Governor Jerry Brown, matured into shouted obscenities. What right did those (expletives) have in keeping the session going until 4:20A.M.? Why did they stick with a sham candidate like Brown until Hubert Humphrey won by default? What provoked the sudden jump to Carter on the sixth ballot when it was too late? Why, in general did they screw up the convention? 
One reason only: we wanted Brown to win. 
And as a Golden State delegate and a leader of the Brown campaign, I know that all of us thought Gov. Brown could win. Contrary to erroneous reports in the South Bend Tribune, we were not holding out for a vice-presidential bid from anyone, not even Mandello. the Fighting Chicken. We were serious, we were in the race to stay, hoping to win on a later ballot. 
The strategy we fashioned closely fitted the circumstances of the convention. Early on, we wanted to establish ourselves as having a viable credible candidate, who could pick up substantial strength outside California. From then, we thought the field would narrow to a Carter-Udall stalemate, where a more moderate man like Brown could build momentum as a candidate acceptable to all factions. 
On the first ballots, we collected many more votes than we ever imagined, too many, in fact. Though Brown built strength on succeeding tallies, a strong stop-Brown sentiment developed. When the standoff did materialize. the resentment of the delegates at hearing "California casts 68 votes for Jerry Brown." had grown too great. 
Until the fifth ballot, we thought things could still go as anticipated. But then, several states exhumed Humphrey (even though he withdrew earlier in the night) as a compromise, or more aptly, an exhaustion candidate. The big states, outside of California rigidly rejected Brown. The two big complaints l\gainst Brown, his youth and the fact that he has not yet declared his candidacy (issues we could have handled one at a time, as did Humphrey,but proved devastating as a combination) scared off numerous potential votes. After the fifth ballot, vote changes cut our total by one-third, we could no longer hope to win, and subsequently threw in the towel. 
California then caucused, and after unpressured debate, gave 66 votes to Jimmy Carter and 2 to Brown. No ideological shift or inconsistency was involved here. In a recycled Humphrey, we saw a man who totally contradicted the pioneering. forward-looking spirit of our governor. Carter more closely embodied Brown's reexamination of government and acceptance of an ''era of limits''. Unlike other big delegations, we took the qualifications of the man more seriously than bedtime. 
I know I speak for the whole delegation in saying that we are proud of the role we played Friday night. We had a candidate we liked, and enthusiastically stuck with him until all hope was lost. Unlike other states, who voted merely in reaction to us, who gave extensive support to "serious" contenders like Pat Moynihan or Mayor Daley. who claimed to be a keystone of events but really resembled Silly-Putty in the hands of any little trend, we voted our conscience every time and remained unintimidated by the late hour. 
As one Brown supporter put it, we may have lain under the wheels, but we never jumped on the bandwagon. 
As for making deals. none seemed very attractive. Udall-Brown would be great only for states west of the Rockies. Carter-Brown would have meant conceding to someone with not a great deal more votes, while being unattractive to liberals. If Brown dropped out, the delegation would have split about evenly between Carter and Udall, helping no one. Therefore, we did what we thought was right, and still do. 
A lot of people complained about the final result, but I think I can safely predict, that the real Democratic convention will end very similarly. Three or four candidates will go to New York without enought strength to win (in addition to Jerry Brown holding the major part of the California delegation.) From this morass will emerge a compromise, most likely HHH. 
We never bowed to the whims and abuses of others. We regret only that Brown lost. As for Humphrey: the convention cast 386 votes for California cast 0. 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 






Cuckoo's Nest--maddening triumph 
Beyond Bicentennial Banalities 
During a week of Mock Convention, Bicentennial doings. and Lenten begin­nings. Isaiah haunts me and disturbs my complacency: 
Is not this the sort of fast that pleases me -­to break unjust fetters and undo the thongs of the yoke, to share your bread with the hungry, and shelter the homeless poor, to clothe the man you see naked, to let the oppressed go free. 
As if this wasn't bad enough, I can't shake 
off a chilling line in the gospel: "Teacher, 
tell my brother to give me a share of our 
inhcritant·c." 
How many millions arc saying precisely 
this about us today! Those who mine tin in 
Holivia. and copper in Chile. Those who 
harvest our coffee in Brazil; the families 
who pick our food from the fields, where 
tht·y are merely "migrants." All of these 
pcoph:. and many more, are asking today, 
and sometimes demanding, to share in 
God's creation... "Teacher. tell my brother 
to give me a share of our inheritance." 
Their murmurs of protest are presently 
like distant thunder; but the thunder rolls 
in our direction. How amazing it is that we 
have so lost touch with our own history that 
we fail to recognize that the voices of our 
Founding Fathers sent forth that very same 
cry for liberation. In this Bicentennial year 
we arc forced to wonder if we have not 
become strangers to the fact that we exist 
as a nation only because of an historical 
event called the American Revolution. 
There seems to be a calculated conspir­acy against an honest and forthright analysis of our origins and what the American Revolution means today. The heaviest emphasis of the Bicentennial is on the circus aspect: festive celebrations in tri-corncrcd hats and colonial uniforms. Indeed, the word "revolution" is missing from the Bicentennial. The government seems to be terrified by the thought that the United States is a revolutionary eountry. 
We find ourselves in the midst of a monumental snow job, perhaps Washing­ton's most effective cover-up of all. A principle of direct proportion is at work: the greater the effort to plan for the Bicenten­nial. the greater the attempt to eliminate any possibility that serious retlcction and debate will occur on the truly serious questions of the American Revolution. It's 
•wt 
hard to understand the administra­tion's ambivalence. At a time when our 1magc abroad reveals us as a capitalist, 

•,·olonial, 
imperialist power, it is disconcert­'mg to be reminded that we were the first anti-colonial revolution in history. 


At one time we were committed to anti-colonialism; and one of the questions tllat refuses to go away during this d il·cntcnnial era is wilcthcr or not we still 
mov1es 
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, is a powerful and moving film about a man who stands up against the injustices of a social and political system. Although he is beaten down, he becomes a symbol of hope to the others that are oppressed and overwhelmed by it. We see that many of the oppressed may never be able to break free. but because of this man they begin to understand that the assertion of individual­ity often necessitates action; if they don't like things they can indeed stand up and shout and perhaps force some things to happen. 
Milos Foreman has taken the original Ken Kescy novel and has enlarged upon its political implications, while strictly adher­ing to the plot. In the novel. first published in the early sixties, the story of how one Randle Patrick McMurphy attempted to change ward policy in a mental institution after being transferredthere from a prison, was told from the point of view of an Indian who was a paranoid schizophrenic. The story as seen through his eyes was naturally exaggerated so that the conflict between the highly volatile McMurphy and the head of the ward, Nurse Ratched, became essentially a power struggle between two forceful personalities. Fore­man. however, has decided to film the story from an objective point of view. As a result, the conflict between the Nurse and McMurphy develops into more than a struggle for power; the asylum becomes a microcosm for society and McMurphy's defeat is seen as a suppression of individuality by a form of police state that attempts to hold power by suppression through the instillation of fear and social emphasis on conformity. 
Foreman's transformation of Kesey's novel into a political allegory is obviously a means of personally alluding to his native nationality, yet his treatment of the subject matter is never overtly heavy-handed. The depiction of the patient's life in the ward is not particularly careless or unfeeling nor is the character of the nurses or the orderlies outwardly hostile or aggressive. We come to realize the nature of the system and the patient's subservience toward it only as a direct result of McMurphy's confrontations with it. 
At the very top ofthe power hierarchy is Nurse Ratched. Projecting an outwardly 

Fr. Bill Toohey 
believe in it for other peoples. ''On~ can understand why the notion of American as the great anti-colonial, revolutionary coun­try is badly tarnished," h;storian Richard 
B. Morris writes. "The word revolution has a bad connotation in Washington. We're supporting military regimes in Greece and Turkey, in Spain and Portugal. We arc helping counter-revolutionary movements in the Caribbean and Latin America. We took over France's colonial role in Indo­china. Our tradition has been a kind of isolationism in terms of other peoples' revolutions." 
I believe most of the American people possess a quality of character admirable enough to want to discover the relevance of the American Revolution for our present moment. It should not take a full-scale revolution against us to wake us up and tune us in to the voices of the oppressed ­and a gospel message that would reform our national policies and our self-obsessed style of life. 
The gospel and Jesus (that Jesus spoken of by Isaiah: "The people who walk in darkness have seen a great light; upon those who dwell in the land and shadow of death, a light has dawned") -they should be sufficient to motivate us to feed the hungry and to share more equitably the inheritance of the earth; to struggle to initiate appropriate actions to advance the necessary reforms of oppressive systems. 
God would light our consciousness and lead us to live in a radically new way. He himself seems to be speaking to us. through a remarkable document recently issued from Taize. France. where 35.000 young people from more than one hundred countries assembled for the First Council of Youth. They wrote: 
Church, what do you say of your 
future? Are you going to become 
the people of the beatitudes, 
having no security other than 
Christ. a people poor, contemplat­
ive, creating peace, bearing joy, 
and a liberating festival for man­
kind, ready even to be persecuted 
for justice? We know that we can 
demand nothing exacting of others 
unless we ourselves take every­
thing. What do we have to fear? 
Christ says, "I came to kindle tire 
on the earth. and how I long for it to 
burn." We shall dare to commit 
ourselves, together. and to the 
point of no return, to living beyond 
hope. letting the spirit of the 
beatitudes come springing up in 
the people of God, being leaven of 
a society without class and where 
none have privileges. We are 
addressing this first letter to the 
people of God, written on our 
hearts, so as to share what burns 
us. 

serene exterior, she uses daily communal discussion sessions to psychologically shat­ter the patients morale and dignity by exposing their fears and weaknesses to the group. It is only when she is confronted with the aggressive and confident Mc­Murphy that she has to resort to physical violence and then murder (lobotomy), to defeat him. Yet McMurphy's death is more inspirational than tragic. It ultimate­ly inspires the patients to assert their individuality and in the movies most moving scene, gives the once inactive Indian the courage to break out by throwing a marble basin that weighs about a half ton, through the window. And although McMurphy has just been thrown back from the operating room a virtual vegetable, we know the patients will never believe it, and their shouts of joy at hearing the window shatter and "His" escape following it, becomes one of the most moving expressions of defiant triumph ever depicted on the screen. It's the number 43 scrawled on the walls and streets as Russian tanks move into Czech­oslovakia, or Marlon Brando taunting Lee 
J. Cobb on the docks after testifying 
~"'-'~" ......... 

''"'!.:W:~-+a---••
~---~~ ..._•.mt.+ e-n_ 
Letters From Abroad 


War-Broken Vienna 
We didn't start the last war. We would 
have been well-content with Bogart and 
Bergman. chocolate romance and the new 
media culture. The lilies of the field could 
have done without our human fertilizer. 
Whilst we were filling our minds with chocolate music, new ideas and ideals, in another part of the world. a nation became obsessed, another filled with anxiety. An "inferior" race could do nothing but choke in a most perverted ill-fate. The artists suffered the most however; theirs was an impersonal fear for mankind: Klee, Hesse, etc. 
We no longer have to hide in the ruins of that war. Our hearts may bleed for Dresden, but there is no Dresden lift. Here in Vienna. like elsewhere, we can find the scattered remnants of a cultural massacre; like an embarrassed child we were quick to repair the broken vase of history. 
"Never again" speak the monuments of victory. hardly consolation save for the meager minded, those who will easily forget the past. The dog or child, once spanked, will be hard pressed to learn his lesson. 
But resentment is soft-spoken, subtle, not really too existent. It is easier to forget. for remembering is painful, like a constant nightmare. At Dachau. an extermination camp of sorts near Munich. we arc an intruder who awakens the sleeping beast. 
We feel a universal sorrow for those destructive days of this century as we stroll through Vienna. but that is somewhat staggered and sweetened by frame of mind and mood. The Viennese wine is more persuasive than most. The beauty of an age past seeps through from behind the closed doors of post-war industrialization. 
All the while the ghosts of the Viennese masters (Beethoven, Mozart, Strauss, Shubert, etc.) still delightfully haunt the opera houses and music salons, which are 
Dom Salemi 

against him in court 
Much of the movie is richly comic. Jack Nicholson who plays the part of McMurphy has built a career out of playing the part of alienated loners and in Cuckoo's Nest he gives the finest performance of his life. As McMurphy his prankish escapades and his continual attempts to get the patients involved in his schemes against Nurse Ratched make up a major portion of the film. By encouraging the patients to be themselves and accepting them as equals. McMurphy restores much of their self. confidence and respect. What makes the movie such an inspiring work, is to sec these harrowed souls return to life and enjoy all the beauty it has to offer, the beauty and wonderment that Nicholson­McMurphy shows and then gives to them. In encouraging the patients to laugh at themselves as they get involved, the patients lose much •of their self-centered ness and many of their anxieties. More 
importantly,thesc people grow and become more individualistic because of Mc­Murphy. and that's why he can never really die for them, for in the end he has become a part of their souls. 

Leo Hansen 

the most prominent leftovers from the age 
of romanticism. Now the blue Danube is 
fairlv murkv. the Viennese Woods arc not 
quite as extensive as they once were. but 
nonetheless enchanting. inspiring. and still 
romantic after all these years. 
In the winter woods the trees arc painted 
white. hy nature's gentle touch. Kissed bv 
the frozen cold, and embraced bv a les·~ 
than warm wind, we viewed th.c frigid 
landscape, speckled by tobaggon, ski and 
sled. 

In Vienna the architecture becomes 
intertwined with the music, for here the 
Baroque has found a comfortable home. 
Even in the stoned silence, the buildings 
hum a classical tone. The townscapc, now 
somewhat disguised, peeps through to take 
its once-classical form; the eighteenth and 
nineteenth century romance creeps 
through a blanket of the last seventy five years. 
And standing in the centre, the impres­sive Gothic structure of St. Stephen's Church, severely tattered after brutal bombings of the Second World War. is now mostly restored. Its tower looks down ominously upon the broken street below. where a metro is being constructed. 
The plywood fences surrounding the pit are adorned by photographs from the regal age: ladies in white lace gowns, men in traditional suits, arriving at the opera. strolling in the woods, or at a courtly palace. 
Meanwhile our ideas remain static but free: the cause for the fighting has long since been forgotten. though we search in humility for an end to the massacre of civilization, or for the war for the end of the world. 
All in all the last laugh belongs to fate: we'll smile a stoic smile for those at peace. extend an emotional sigh for those alive. and leave a teardrop in the snow for those waiting to be. 


Tuesday, March 9, 1976
6 
the observer 



SMC Writing Clinic encounters positive reaction 
by Jean Powley Staff Reporter Editor's note: tbis article is the second in a two-part series examin­ing the St. Mary's Writing CUnic. 
"The Writing Clinic showed me the things I was doing wrong and now I can write pretty well on illy own," explained St. Mary's fresh­man Ann Sofranko, when asked how the college's program helped her. Her comment is typical and accurately reflects the hopes ;md expectations of tutors, faculty members and administrators work­ing closely with the experiment. 
Tutors do not write students' 
papers for them. Instead they help 
with organization, grammar and 
the general mechanics of writing. 
''When I bad to rewrite a paper 
they would go over it with me and 
criticize it. Then I would rewrite it. 
After it was rewritten, they would 
go over it again and encourage me. 
I learned through my mistakes," 
another student, Barb Borkowski 
said. 

One of the tutors. Jeri Kane, a 
senior English major, explained 
that the idea behind the clinic is 
''to help students who have trouble 
writing and to offer this help 
through other students. We're not 
as intimidating, being students 
ourselves.·· 

Most students agree that the student tutor system has been quite effective. The tutors have encouaraged many students to gain confidence in their ability to write and to become self~sufficient in recognizing and handing their own problems. 
Terry Kerley, another tutor, observed that much of the problem is lack of self-confidence. "They come in very nervous and we try to relax them and make them feel that writing isn't a big pain. Many students find it more relaxing and informal to go to another student,'' she said. 
In general, faculty reaction has been favorable. English depart­ment chairman, Sr. M. Jean Kiene, said that she is "delighted" with the work of faculty coordinator, 
You have something to 
share with the people 
of the rural South and 
Appalachia-yourself. 
Find out about the 
opportunities open to 
you as a Glenmary 
Prkst, Brother or Sister. 
For freu information about oppor­tunities with Glenmary Home Mis­sioners. write: 
GLENMJ\RV, Room 132 
Box46404 
Cincinnati, Ohio 45246 
0 Also please send free 17" x 22" God Made Me Poster. Shown Above 
0 Send free poster only. 

Nome ___________________ 
Address___________________ 
City__________ State·____ 
Zip_________Age_____ 

Ann Loux and supports her and the problem is that many students 
tutors 100 per cent. can't read well enough," explained 
She added, though, that "none Kiene. 
of us are pretending it's the answer Sr. Eva Hooker, another member 
to the world's problems." of the English department, feels 
Everyone invovled in the project that the clinic needs more hours, 
has her own ideas for the future. materials, and space, possibly in 
Kiene would like to see the Madeleva Hall, rather than Le­
program expanded to include a Mans. "It shouldn't be so close to 
course in developmental reading. the Freshman Office because many 
It would not necessarily be for students assume that it is just for 
college credit, but would help the freshmen and it isn't," she said. 
student to develop even after she Steps are, at present, being 
had completed it. "Part of the taken to expand the clinic's rna­
: ii~r C!htlonial : : Jlaucakt ifnu.st : 
: FEATURING... • 
• LARGE, OVEN-BAKED : : APPLE PANCAKES : : -A REAL TREAT-: 
:WE NEVER COMPROMISE WITH QUALITY : • U.S. 31 (Dixieway North) IA) • : (ACROSS FROM HOLIDAY INN} .wl* : 

·······················~······· 
Some people who fly West for vacation break never get on a plane until they reach Chicago. They don't realize they can save time, trouble, even money by flying the friendly skies from South Bend, instead of traveling by bus or car to O'Hare. 
For example, one-way Coach airfare from South Bend to Los Angeles may cost $5.00 more than the same ticket from Chicago. But there's no way you can get to O'Hare for less 
terials. The staff is developing a Ann Loux, hopes to get a special series of exercises for -writing certification for teaching writing problems taken from specific ex-included in the tutors' transcripts. amples of the work of Sf. Mary's She also plans to recruit more students collected from the first tutors from departments other than semester. In addition, faculty the English department next year. members fi:om various depart-Any junior or senior interested in ments are betng asked to tape short becoming a tutor next year should sugge~t~ons ,on spe:ific a~pects of""'" collect a dossier; get her depart­the wntmg process tn thetr areas. ment's recommendation and then 
The clinic's faculty cooridnator, contact Mrs. Loux. 
----~--~---------------==--­

-,-,-,__ 
SPECIAl SPRING SALE 

[Ko~III.NSTAMA'DC200~ 
iNCLUDES CAMERA, MAGICUBE, 
MAGICUBE EXTENDER FILM, 

WRIST STRAP, INSTRUCTIONS. 
SPECIAL 

$24.75 
LIST $39.95 

AUL T CAMERA CO. n S. MICHIGAN SOUTH BEND 233-6145 
money, or in a shorter time, or with less hassle. So flying United from South Bend is actually cheaper, quicker, and easier than rolling down the toll road. 
For Friendship Service to 59 cities from South Bend, call your Travel Agent. Or call United at 232-4811. 
Partners in Travel with Western Inter­national Hotels. 
The friendly skies of yourland. 

Tuesday, March 9, 1976 the observer 






Hearst's rape allegation disputed 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -A prosecution doctor said Monday that Patricia Hearst became "a queen'' in the terrorist army that kidnappedher and willingly joined in a bank robbery and sex with her captors. 
"She was a queen in the Sym­bionese Liberation army," Dr. Joel Fort testified at Miss Hearst's bank robbery trial. ''She brought them international recognition. She par­ticularly enjoyed the status and the recognition this brought her." 
Fort declared that Miss Hearst did not feel she carried the low rank of a "private in an army of generals." This directly contra­dicted the testimony of a defense psychiatrist who said Miss Hearst's low military status showed she was not a true convert to the tiny group. 
Aftl·r nearly a full day of testi­mony, Fort faced cross­examination by defense attorney F. Lee Bailey, who began by challeng­ing the doctor's qualifications to testify on the matters involved. Fort was still on the stand when court recessed, and Bailey was to resume cross-examination Tues­day. 

Earlier, Fort said he examined the heiress for 15 hours and testified that she told him she agreed to have intercourse with a man she accused from the witness stand of raping her. 
Fort, a physician with psychiatric training, also swore that he deter­mined from his talks with her that the 22-year-old defendant was fully converted to the aims of the Symbionese Liberation Army by March I, 1974 -less than one month after her violent kidnapping. 
"As I reconstructed it. probably 
Council members discuss possible future changes 
(continued from page l) 
callinL: someone on the carpet," said Brosious. 
Williamson was the only member polled who favors publication of the vote. Charles sees no objection to making one's vote known, and taking the responsibility for it. With a secret ballot, actual publica­tion is impossible, she added. 
The question of open meetings also elicited mixed reactions from the group. Burke said, "I would be delighted if we could have people come and observe." However, he cited lack of space as a reason for the impossibility of public meet­ings. 
Williamson, Fiorella and Brosi­ous arc opposed to open meetings, while Bula and Gassman see no danger in admitting the public. Charles would open the sessions, but "Frankly, I don't think any­body would come." 
Admitting the media to the sessions was accepted by most of the group. Richard Conklin, di­rector of Information Services and an official observer to the council, prepares a special press release which is the only official account of the meetings. 
Conklin commented on the pos­sibility of admitting the press, "I think the perception of some that the council docs not thoroughly discuss all sides of the issues is fostered by the fact that its debates arc not made public and I feel that opening its sessions to the public would be one of the best things the Academic Council could do in terms of public relations." 
Williamson sees no advantage in admitting the press. He thinks the way the releases are handled prevents "talk." 
Gassman strongly favors the inclusion of the press because "one person's review is not accurate." He commented, "I think that might go over in Russia, but not in the 
u.s." 
Gassman applauded Rev. Ferdi­nand Brown, associate provost, who records the minutes. "Father Brown takes pretty accurate min­utes. He does an excellent job." 
Finally, in response to Faculty Senate member Vincent De Santis' comment "that the Council is 'stacked' with assistants to the provost." Burke noted, "I was elected to the council first as a professor, then as a dean and now as assistant to the provost. I've got a perspective that many of the new people don't have. I know the workings of the thing." Burke, as mentioned earlier, has been a member of the council for at least 18 years. 
At the end of his interview, Bula summarized the attitude of all the members interviewed, ''The coun­cil as a whole is a basically honest, open group that is really willing to deal with the problems of the University as they come up." 
we were Here. Where were You? 
It you missed our last visit-and if you're a senior without firm post-graduation career plans-you might just find it worthwhile to investigate a career as a Lawyer's Assistant by speaking to us the next time we visit your campus. 
Why not check us out? Contact your placement office and find out when our representative will be here again. 
Don't miss us this time. Opportunity knocks but twice. 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 
PROGRAM APPROVED BY THE AMERICAN BAR II.SSOCIATION 
by March l she had become a voluntary member of the SLA," he said under questioning by U.S. Atty. James L. Browning Jr. 
"She did not perform the bank robbery because she was in fear of her life," he said at another point. "She did it as a voluntary member of the SLA." 
As Fort began to discuss her sexual encounters with SLA "soldier" William Wolfe, Miss Hearst became agitated, shook her head negatively and appeared ready to jump out of her chair. Her attorney, F. Lee Bailey, placed a heavy hand on her shoulder as if to calm her. 
Miss Hearst had said on the witness stand that she "couldn't stand" Wolfe. But Fort said the defendant spoke to him of the now-dead Wolfe as one of three SLA members who were ''kind and nice and friendly to her and with which I gathered there were affec­tionate bonds." 
Asked by Browning to discuss Miss Hearst's allegation of rape, Fort gave this account: "In her interviews with me, she indicated at some point that it was brought up whether or not she would like to have intercourse with Willie Wolfe. She described agreeing to do that. She said among the reasons was because, 'It would help save my life.' 
"She said she had had inter­
course with him a couple of times 
prior to the bank robbery. She did 
not indicate he in any way forced 
himself on her or that directly or 
indirectly rape was involved." 
He said Miss Hearst also told him of a sexual incident involving Donald "Cinque" DeFreeze, the SLA field marshal she depicted as her second rapist. 
"She said once Cinque asked her to have intercourse with him and she said she had intercourse with him -to translate her word~ ­without affection." 
He added, "She said she did not have sexual relations with any of the female members of the SLA. ·· 


Freshmen and Sophomores. Guaranteed Executive Positions In Aviation Upon Graduation 
Pay approximately $13,000 per year to start. 30 days paid vacation per year starting the first year. Full medical, dental, and unlimited sick leave. Retirement after 20 years service. Free Flight Training valued at over $400,000.00. 
LT. DAVE DRIES ON CAMPUS MARCH 8, 9, AND 10. 

WANTED 

Need ride east for break, NYC.LI area, can leave Thursday, 4 P.M. will share$$ and driving. Call Joe 1066. 
One GA ticket to NCAA final in Philly. Will pay$. Call Bob, 1479. 
Ride to Jamestown, New York for break. Call Bill, 3314. 
Student Life Council secretary need­ed. 2-3 hours per week, student with some secretarial experience prefer red. For more information, call 283-6111 {Student Government) or 283-8411 {Office of Student Affairs). 
Need ride to Boston for break. Call Bill after 6 P.M., 288-0088. 
Ride to Chicago, leave Thursday, call Debbie, 6661. 
Need ride to Chicago's western suburbs, Friday March 12. Call Cathy 5148. 
Need ride· to MSU {E. Lansing or vicinity) March 12, can leave at noon, call Bill 6827. 
Need ride to Long Island, New York tor March break, can leave Thurs. after 6 P.M. Share $ and driving, call after 6, Chris 1471. 
Need ride to Boston tor break, call Pete, 234-6352. 
Leaving SUnday March 14 tor D. C. and returning from Pensacola, Fla. area March 21. Any riders call 287-8805. 
Ride needed to North Jersey {Union County) can leave Friday, call Tom 
1 
1694. 
Desperately need ride to the "Home of the Flyers", Philadelphia area. Can leave anytime Friday. Call Kathy or Cathy 8056. 
Need one rider to Ft. Lauderdale. I'm leaving Wed. afternoon, March 
10. Share driving and expenses. Call Pat 1654. 
Need ride to Lake Geneva-Milwau­kee area over break. Call Debbie 4-4844. 
Riders wanted tor break, Salt Lake City area. Jim 272-9026. 
Desperately need ride to Delaware or D.C. area tor break, Tom 1380. 


Classified Ads 
Boston: must go, midnight ride, will 
share $ and driving. Call Christy, 
6800. 
Ride for 2 needed to Annapolis area, call Anne, 7836. 
NOTICES 

Typing. former executive secretary experienced in senior essays, disser­tations. 232-5715. 
Accurate, fast typing, Mrs. Donoho, 232-0746. 
IBM Selectric II typing. Manuscripts dissertations. Experienced 289-5193 
Earn $250 per thousand stuffing addressing envelopes at home. Send $1 plus self-addressed envelope to Heskey Associates, Box 821 FZ, Covington, Ky 41012. 
Morrissey Loan, last day to take. out loans is March 12. 
Boston: must go, midnight ride, will share $ and driving, call Christy, 6800. 
----"""----------~­
FOR SALE 

For Sale: 20 gallon fish tank. Includes everything. $50. Call Dave 289-8837. 
10-speed Huffy Olympia, $85, call Dan 288-3025. 
Ektelon "Beau Mark" racquetball racquet (metal) with cover. Just restrung with Staytite, rubber grip. Perfect condition. $25, o>est offer. 277-2306. 
4 NCAA tix, call Rick, 287-7162. 
Texas lnstrument-SR10, 1 year, make offer, 6722. 
FOR RENT 

For rent next year, 5 bedroom, 2 bathroom furnished home. 9-month lease, near campus, call 234-2626. 
Furnished houses, two to seven 
bedrooms, available for September 
or June, call 234-9364. 
2 rooms tor rent. $40. Call 233-1329. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: Organic and Bio notebooks in Engineering Auditorium. Please re­turn--MIDTERMS! Call Jim 1646. 
PERSONALS 
Ms. Mary O'M, There are 49 bottles of beer on the wall -Oh the intellectual discussion we could have after drinking then, all! Your Passionate Admirer 
Dearest Bev "Sleepy" O'C. I have 4 bar benches standing side by side just waiting for your tender Bod. Fidel 
La Gala Guggenheim "An Artistic Exposition" Beaux-Arts Ball, March 27. 
The above ad was placed by Tim Lew of 711 Grace Hall. 
Giant Iguana wants to meet Mini Rolling Stone. Apply at cave, or call on coco-phone. 
Gerald: Have fun in South Bend next week! (Remember, Berwyn's the place to be from.) 
Monica, When are you going to finish your English paper? 
Julie-Woolie, Aren't you glad the comp is over? Love, Chaucer 
Carrigan, {party girl) have fun! 
Sam, what's up? R. B. 
W here's Blair? 
Ride wanted to Zanzibar, to leave any time on Friday. Call Jesse, at 2211. 
2 students need rides to New Jersey for break. (Near Morristown) W. ill share driving and expenses. Please call 7130 or 8706. 
B., 
Happy Birthday, Superstar! It's been fun. Kathleen 
There once was a man named Gruff, Who liked to sleep in the buff. When a friend came to call, He almost ran in the hall But decided he wore not enough. 
Ride needed to Milwaukee Friday morning at 11 o'clock. My grand­mother expects me for dinner. Call Tom 234-8952. 


-----------------------------~----------------­
the observer Tuesday, March 9, 1976 
Irish nine travels toAlabama 

for regular-season warmup 
while Stoltz posted a 3-1 mark in from the outfield to third base. Coach Tom Kelly's first Notre '75 with an EAR of 1.10. Both are Galloway hit .318 last year and is D'ame baseball team as the Irish strong hitters and figure to see Notre Dame's leading returning 
embark on a 12-game spring swing. 
Alabama is the destination for 
action at first base on the trip when hitter. Football powers Alabama, Auburn not pitching. Frank Fiascki figures to see a lot and Ohio State highlight the 
Left-handers Don Wolfe and Bob of action at either short or second Hughes also figure pro"Ttinently in after backing up last season. Rickschedule. 
The Irish open up with a single the Irish plans. Wolfe threw the Pullano is a strong freshman game Sunday against St. Bernard's first Notre Dame no-hitter in 37 shortstop while Jim Abbatiello has College in Cullman, Alabama. years last season while Hughes grabbed a lead in the three-way After that ND swings over to struck out nearly a batter an inning battle for second base. Pitchers Jacksonville State for a pair of in going 4-2. will play first on the spring trip. 
twi-night twin bills before moving 
Another power pitcher was Jim "This doesn't mean anything is to Auburn for three games in two Sholl who also fanned nearly a decided yet," says Kelly, "we just days with the War Eagles. batter an inning with a 2. 78 ERA. had to go for versatility on the trip. 
The highlight of the trip will be Joe Karpowicz and Pete Zabroski I'm sure that we'll give some Friday and Saturday when Notre 
are other veterans who will make people a shot once we get back Dame moves into Tuscaloosa for a 
the trip. Freshman Mike Bobinski north." total of four games--two each with has been very impressive in early The Irish are taking four full­Ohio State and Alabama. The 
workouts and figures to get a start time outfielders to Alabama. Stan schools have fierce. if rarely con­
down South. The pitching corps is Bobowski returns in centerfield tested. rivalries on the gridiron further boosted by the return of with JackSnyder,Dave Lazzeri and with the Irish. although ND has Marty Serena after a year of study freshman Dan Monroe sharing the 
never met Alabama in baseball and 
in Rome. other jobs. not played Ohio State on the 
A major Irish question mark is Behind the plat Dave DeFacci, diamond since 1955. 
the infield where every position Tim Pollack and Mike Mac Donald "We·re looking on the trip as a graduated its starter including will make the trip with the catching 
..... 
catcher. Mike Galloway will move job still very much up for grabs.
learning experience." says Coach 
Kelly. "The team will be getting used to me and I'll be getting used to them. We'll still be trying people out. moving them around in order to get set for our regular season." 21 players will go on the spring 
*Observer trip including nine pitchers. Pitch­ing figures to be Notre Dame's strong suit this season with every hurler returning from a staff that posted a composite 2.83 ERA a year ago. 



Sports
Co-captains Bob Stratta and Mitch Stoltz top the ND mound corps. Stratta was S-3 last year after a 7-3 season as a sophomore 
Golic trades pads for mats 
by Tom Desmond gridiron and mats, "the stance is Woods have all been down in the essentially the same. as well as the wrestling room helping me out." objective, to ward of someone who notes Golic. appreciative of their
-Last Wed­
is attacking with his hands. efforts. The 190-pounders do notnesday and Thursday freshman Football helps my wrestling. wres­provide the same "live" conditionswrestler Bob Golic was on his back tling helps by football, they are that in practice that these three heavy­in the infirmary. saddled with the complementary. •• weights do, prompting Bob to add,flu. Saturday morning he was on But, noting a difference, the "without them I wouldn't be ablehis back getting a sunburn on a 6'3". 245-pounder remarks, to practice my moves or learn newFort Lauderdale beach. Tough life "Football and wrestling have their ones. I would not be able toyou say? Well. he also spent own kinds of gratification. With prepare for matches as well as IFriday night on his back. courtesy football it is a sense of gratification have been able to prepare."
of a pin by the three-time world as a unit. In wrestling. gratifica­This Thursday. the freshmanchampion Russian champion. 
tion comes in the individual sense, standout will be able to test hisGolic joined the Notre Dame with an individual accomplishment. preparation against the bestwrestlers after the semester break Each. however, has its good heavywiehts in the country. Aftertrading the gridiron for the mats. 
aspects." spending the better part of lastSince that time he has rolled up a So, being the Irish's only repre­week on his back, you can be sure15-0-l record in intercollegiate sentative at the Nationals, Bob is that the only time Bob Golic willcompetition, in the process captur­made aware, even more so, of the want to spend on his back this week ing the National Catholic Champ­individuality of wrestling. But, he will be while he is lounging aroundionship. Bob was not overly upset is quick to sight others that basking in the warm Arizona sunat his first college defeat, "He was contributed to his success. "Jay celebrating a hard-earned, well-de­really good, a three-time world Achterhoff, Torn Frericks and Jim served victory.
champ. I was just happy to be able to go to Florida and compete after being in the infirmary for two days." 
NCAA. tix on sale today
But now Bob's attention turns to the upcoming NCAA Finals that Tickets for Notre Dame's first­
If Notre Dame makes the finalwill be contested at the University round NCAA tournament game four, they will advance to Phila­of Arizona this Thursday, Friday against Cincinnati in Lawrence, delphia and play on March 27 andand Saturday. Championship tour­Kansas, on Saturday are or• sale 29. In this event, tickets will go on naments are nothing new to the today from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the sale on Monday, March 22 from 9Cleveland, ohio, native, as he was ticket window on the second floor of a.m. to 4 p.m. at the second floorthe Ohio High School champion last the ACC. The price is $5. Students ticket window of the ACC. The total year. In fact, his schoolboy must show an ID and there is a package will cost $27.50 and, once championship lead to some recrut­limit of one ticket and ID per again, only one ticket and ID pering by wrestling powerhouses like person. 
student will be allowed. 
Iowa State. "I dismissed the If the Irish win on Saturday they 
wrestling offers right away," re­will travel to Louisville, Kentucky 
flects Golic, "because I wasn't.sure for the semi-finals and possibly the 

NO sailors fifth
about my wrestling plans, I did finals of the Midwest Regional, on however look into the wrestling March 18 and 20. Students may fill possibilities at the schools that out an application for these games This past weekend the Notre recruited me for football." beginning i.oday from 1 p.m. to 4 Dame Sailing Club hosted its 
He took up those possibilities p.m. and tomorrow from 9-4 at the annual Freshman Icebreaker Reg­here at Notre Dame when he joined second-floor ticket window. The atta. A total of eleven schools the wrestling squad in January. two-ticket package will cost $14 and competed on St. Joseph's Lake. His reasons were twofold; first the will include tickets for both games The weather turned out to be a absence of wrestling. he wanted to Thursday night and the one champ­determining factor as the strong wrestle again, and secondly, wres­ionship game on Saturday, even if winds caused numerous capsizes tling would keep him in shape for Notre Dame does not play on on both Saturday and Sunday. The 

... 
spring football. Saturday. The tickets cannot be cold temperature also resulted in 
"You have to be in good condi­split. If the Irish win this Saturday, some schools not being able to tion to wrestle well,'' observes the tickets for the Louisville games will finish many of the races. A good Irish's middle linebacker, "so I st be sent out Monday to an address effort was turned out by numerous ay in shape by wrestling. Also, which the student will list on his Notre Dame freshman which playing middle linebacker and application. If the Irish do not win, resulted in a fifth place finish. The wrestling are so complementary.'' the students can pick up their final standings were Wisconsin, 
Elaborating further, Bob points checks when they get back from first: Michigan State, second: and out the similarity of his roles on the break. lllinois, third. 

The Notre Dame baseball team conducts practice in the ACC in preparation for its spring trip to Alabama. (Photo by Mike Kron) 


NIT sets field 
Dantley cited 
KANSAS CITY(AP) Notre 
Dame's three-year standout Adrian 
NEW YORK (AP) -The National Dantley and two members of Invitation Tournament, getting an top-ranked Indiana head the tO­eager acceptance from North Caro-man All-American basketball team lina State and a downright refusal selected by the U.S. Basketball from Maryland. completed selec· Writers Association. tion of its 12-team field Monday. -:' Dantley was named player of the 
The NIT. the nation's oldest year on the USBWA club announc­post-season basketball classic, ed Sunday. The 6-foot 5-inch Irish rounded out its lineup with North junior is one of four underclassmen Carolina State of the Atlantic Coast on the all-star team. Conference, San F~ancisco of the Joining Dantley on the team West Cost Athletic Co~ference, were: Scott May, 6-7 senior, and ~ansas State of the B1g-8 ~nd Kent Benson. 6-11 junior, of India­mdependents North Carohna-na; Richard Washington, 6-11 Charlotte, Holy Cross and. for local junior, UCLA: John Lucas 6-4 flavor, St. Peter's, N.J. senior, Maryland; Bernard King 
They join ~ouisville,. Kentucky, 6-8 sophomore, Tennessee; Eari Oregon, Pr?v1dence, N1agara and Tatum, 6-3 senior, Marquette; North Carohna A & T, .all of whom Willie Smith, 6-2 senior. Missouri; were name~ Sund~y, m the tour· Phil Sellers, 6-4 senior, Rutgers. nam~nt wh1ch begms Saturday at and Mitch Kupchak, 6-9 senior. Mad1son Square Garden. North Carolina. 



for tournament 

ND tracksters triumph 
The Notre Dame track team shotputter Mike Mever with his closed out its indoor season in heave of 49'1 1/J" and-Mike Hogan strong fashion on Saturday by who led an Irish sweep in the pole hosting and winning a quadrangu­vault by clearing 15'6". lar meet at the ACC. The Irish This meet marked the final home compiled a total of 63 points, a total appearance for several Notre Dame that surpassed the 53 of Kentucky seniors including co-captains Jim State's, the 26 of Loyola and the 21 Hurt and Mike Hogan, along with points amassed by Louisville. Joe Yates and Bob Schott. 
Standout performances from se­veral Irish middle and distance Bookstore b-ball runners highlighted Notre Dame's victory. Freshman Dennis Vander­registration set kraats, a native of Toronto, Ontario altered the lead position with 
Wednesday is the birthday of teammate Steve Welch before go­
Austin Carr, the Patron Saint of the ing on to win the two mile run in 
Bookstore Basketball Tournament 
9:09.8. Jim Reinhart took the lead and thus registration for the Sth about midway through the mile and and finest An Tostal Classic com­held on for the first place finish in 
mences on that day. 
Two new rules have been insti­year, freshman Jay Miranda per­tuted this year. The first is $1 per formed exceptionally well in the 4:13.1 As he has been doing all 
team entrance fee to cover referee I ,000 yard run, winning in 2:13.5. costs. The other limits the number Likewise, Jim O'Brien maintained 
of varsity football and basketball his winning ways in the 600 yard players on the court at any one time run turning a clocking of 1:12.1. to three per team. The old rule of 
Rounding o.;• the list of victorious 
one varsity basketball player per competitors for the Irish were team is still in effect. 

"I'm hoping for an entry of 256 teams, our largest field ever," saysAlabama triumphs Bookstore Central proprieter, Tim 
Bourret, "This should be the greatest year ever of Bookstore. 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) -Reg­The fever is spreading across inald King scored eight points in campus and even national publicity 
overtime to lead eighth-ranked is possible. As usual we will have a 
Alabama to the Southeastern Con­number of special awards especial­
ference basketball championship ly for team names. In addition we 
with an 84-77 victory over Vander­are planning a number of specialbilt Monday night. 
attractions with Bill Veeck of the 
A tip-in at the buzzer by Ala­White Sox as our consultant." 
?ama's T..R. Dunn sent the game 
Entries can be made until Friday 
mto overtime. Vanderbilt's Butch April 2nd by calling Bookstore 
Feher had put the Cornmodo~es 
Central located in the cavernous 
ahead 68-66 on a layup with six depths fo Morrissey Hall (151).
seconds remaining in regulation Phone 34 70 for men's tourney and play. 
3149 for women's competition. 




