
Wallace campaign visitsSouth Bend 
by Ken Bradford re-affirmation of Wallace's opposi­rallies in late February in prepara­Copy Editor tion to gun control. "Americans tion for Indiana's March primary. have a constitutional right to bear The Kennedys arc putting in The Wallace Girls of 1972, their arms and the Governor will not act several more personal appearances 
slim bodies, blonde curls and shiny to abridge that right,'' Kennedy in Indiana this week. Kennedy said donation buckets. were missing said. he and his wife are very pleased Kennedy said gun laws have with the reception they have been
this time. Gone too were the vicious attacks 
done little to deter crimes commit­getting in Indiana. "It's so nice to on ··briefcase-toting bureaucrats,'' tied by persons with handguns. travel around the country to meet "pointy-headed liberals" and Maryland had a strong gun Jaw in so many people who think so much "pussy-footing intellectuals." 1972 when Wallace was crippled in of my father-in-law and Peggy's But the aging blondes were back an assassination attempt, he noted. daddy," he drawled. in their brown dresses and white On other issues, however, Ken­
necklaces. The husbands were nedy was less than adamant. He Also appearing at the brunch dressed inadequately -flamboyant often stated his reluctance to were area Wallace organizers Rob­business suits. And it was the same speculate on his father-in-law's ert Rhodes and William Griggs. In old theme: Change the American unannounced views on controvers­brief introductions, Rhodes called system which has turned its back ial topics. Wallace "our Paul Revere in 1976" on old values and the little man. Kennedy said ~allace favors tax and Griggs described the candidate 
The George Wall ace presidential reforms which will take some of the as "the man who gave his legs for campaign returned to South Bend pressure off the middle class, but our country.'' 
Saturday but George wasn't part of would not list specific tax propos­Dr. Helen Calvin, Notre Dame the show this time. Representing als. He ducked questions referring physician and perennial congres­the Alabama governor were his to Wallace's stand on abortion and sional candidate, was not at the daughter, Peggy Sue, and her aid to Israel. meeting but her husband said l 'le husband, Mark Kennedy. is beginning to solicit funds to 
The Kennedys campaigning for Wallace would probably intro­finance another campaign. Dr. George Wallace. Enough said. duce and support a constitutional Calvin, who has previously billed 
Mr. and Mrs. Kennedy greeted amendment to outlaw busing, herself as a Wallace candidate for 90 guests at a campaign brunch, Kennedy added. Congress, will probably challenge sponsored by the Indiana Third One topic which was entirely incumbent John Brademas in the District Wallace Committee, in the avoided was Wallace's former rep­Democratic primary. Her husband Albert Pick Motor Inn ballroom. utation as a racist. No blacks were was wearing a red-white-and-blue Mark Kennedy, a 24-year-old Jaw present at the brunch, an invita­tuxedo with an American flag bow 
student, opened the program with tions-only affair. tie at the brunch. brief remarks before answering Kennedy's remarks were occas­and dodging questions dealing with ionally interrupted by an old priest, Entertainment before the a variety of issues, including gun who was introduced as Fr. Cornel­t -speeches was provided by the 
Peggy Sue Wallace Kennedy writes her autograph for Alan Marsh of
control, busing and abortion. ius Hagerty of Notre Dame. Hager­LaVille High School Swing Choir, a 
Niles at a Wallace presidential campaign brunch last Saturday.
The greatest audience response ty took the opportunity to voice the group of 16 teen-agers who sang
[Photo by Chris Smith}
was in response to Kennedy's American taxpayer's discontent semi-patriotic songs. 
To regulate SU spending 
I-----------------,
Will he 1
Ad-hoc committee formed t t 
that amount of excess funds. He said a one or two 
t or won't he? t 
by Phil Cackley dollar reduction of the fee would "probably be a Staff Reporter reality" for next year. ! PUNXSUTAWNEY, Pa. (AP) were warmer and snow fall ! Birsic expects the committee to reach a decision by ' --It's been cancelled by war, lighter. ' Wednesday. A scoffed at by meteorologists and The idea of a groundhog f 
In a precedent setting move to make the Student 
Campus Press was described as an "extremely ' rained out. But Groundhog Day predicting weather was broughtUnion more responsible financially, Tom Birsic, valuable facility" that was not necessarily run for f has survived it all for decades to this country to German f Student Union director, has formed an ad-hoc profit, even though the organization did turn in a 17 and Monday will again feature settlers, who figured if the sun t committee to decide on a major expenditure of per cent profit last semester. t Punxsutawney Phil, the shone on February 2, a smart 
Student Union funds. 
He said that considering the large volume of t groundhog who supposedly animal would see his shadow f The expenditure being considered is whether to printing done by Student Union and Student predicts more winter or an early and race back to his burrow for f 
spend $.8,000 on a piece of printing equipment for Government it was extremely valuable for Student spring. six more weeks.
t
Campus Press. The amount represents over a sixth of Union to have its own facility for printing. Student A crowd will wait on Gob-The Germans interpreted the t the entire Student Union budget of $50,000 for Union and Student Government printing accounts for t bier's Knob here, about 100 six weeks as the second winter 
1975-76. 
over 30 per cent of Campus Press's business. f miles northeast of Pittsburgh, to mentioned in the centuries-old f Andy Bury, director of Campus Press, said the A see if the hibernating Phil myth: f $8000 expenditure for a machine to make printing ' leaves his burrow. Tradition "If Candlemas Day February No formal procedure plates would make Campus Press ''more efficient and A says if he sees his shadow, it's 2 is bright and clear, there'll be f able to provide one-day service." ,, six more weeks of winter; if not, two winters in the year.'' f The press has been inexistence for 15 or 20 years, spring is not far off. Punxsutawney became the 
Birsic said in the past there was no formal he said, and until seven years ago did most of its work Weather predictions favor a focal point for the groundhog f procedure for making decisions on capital expendi-on a Jetter press. This was changed in 1970 with a t quick spring: Monday's fore-predictions about 75 years ago tures. "There is no clear designation of who has the move to the more efficient offset printing. f cast was for snow. when a group of men called the f authority to give the go-ahead" in such matters, he Bury described the equipment presently in use as Censorship during World Groundhog Club met on the f explained. I antiquated and needing repairs often. In addition, it is f War II restricted Phil's predic-Knob to drink beer and eat 
He partially blamed last year's Student Union debt labor-intensive, contributing to the allocation of t tions in 1943, according to groundhog. f of $34,000 on the "narrow scope" of decisions made almost half of Campus Press's budget to salaries. reports of the time. During the The group held their celebra­last year. "In light of last year's financial catastrophe, The new piece of equipment would be capital­f 1950's, a Pittsburgh meteorolo-tion on February 2 after the f we should get a broader scope" and more input for intensive, Bury explained, but would save several gist announced that in the six editor of the Punxsutawney f decisions of this type. he said. steps in the printing process and reduce labor costs, t weeks after Phil supposedly had Spirit claimed the groundhog 
resulting in a 76 per cent savings per job. f seen his shadow, temperatures could predict a second winter. f Student Union spent $7,000 Jess last semester than was planned, Birsic commented, and now doesn't 
t t
"want to slack off." He hopes to use the present lower prices
committee as a model for future years. t t Members of the committee include Birsic; Bro. John Benesh, Student Activities director; Jamie Cain, t t 
It would also allow Campus Press to lower their 
asst. dir. of Student Union; Jim Hummer, Student prices, which are two dollars higher than most t tUnion Comptroller; Ken Ricci, asst. Comptroller; quick-service printers, and they would be able to
John Hargrave, Student Body Treasurer and Ed t t
provide one day service. At present, Campus PressByrne, Student Body President. 
asks for three days to complete a job. t t 
There is a possibility of lowering the student Bury said the expenditure would take care of major t t activity fee, Birsic said, if Student Government and equipment needs for the next several years and would Student Union remain on schedule budget-wise this help build the press into a "highly competitive, t t semester. The fee was raised from $14 to $17 last year efficient organization." 
t t 
to cover the Student Union debt. Campus Press prints posters for a large variety of If the fee remains at S17 next year there will be an campus organizations, in addition to printing booklets t t excess of funds, and Birsic questioned whether and resumes, including the Freshman Orientation 
t f
Student Government and Student Union would need booklet and the Business Review last semester. 


--------~--=~·----~~~--------............--~ 
2 the observer Monday, February 2, 1976 
'Pop' Farley honored 
,.---News Briefs--­


Farley women plan birthday 
t---------Intemational 
by Maureen Hynn public," said Debbie Klug, organi-' but a few of his remaining years at

Earthquake hits 

Campus Editor zer of the celebration. "We Notre Dame. especially invite all the guys who For many years he served asMEXICO CITY--A sharp earthquake shook an area stretching from once lived in Farley." Farley was rector of various residence halls,Veracruz on the Gulf of Mexico to Acapulco on the Pacific Ocean The women of Farley have converted to a women's residence including a ten-year stretch inearly yesterday, scientists reported. There were no immediate 
announced plans for a month-long hall in 1973. Sorin, once the traditional senior reports of injuries or damage. 
celebration of Fr. John F. "Pop" Pop Farley was one of the most residence hall. Farley's 100th birthday. The popular Notre Dame figures of his Farley suffered a paralytic stroke 
I==========================National 
schedule of activities includes a day. As a student at the turn of the in 1937 which was followed by the Mass on February 15, the anniver­century, Farley captained the 1900 amputation of his leg the next year. sary of Farley's birth, to be football team and won four varsity Nevertheless, he continued to be

More small town docs 

celebrated by University President letters in football, despite his active in Notre Dame life, frequent­ClflCAGO--Medical schools should enroll more students from small 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh.• weight of 160 pounds. He also ly attending athletic events and towns and should offer more training programs for family 
Also planned for the centennial lettered in baseball for four years campus programs in an automobile physicians to combat the shortage of doctors in rural America, 1 
celebration are a No-Talent Show, a and in track for one year. wheelchair. Farley Coffeehouse, and a lecture Farley graduated with scholastic Farley died in January of 1939
according to a University of Missouri research team. 

on the history of Pop Farley and honors in 1901 and entered the and in 1946 a residence hall then Farley Hall by Prof. Thomas Schle­seminary of the Congregation of under construction was dedicated
===============================Local 
reth. the Holy Cross the same year. He to his memory. The building was ''All the activites are open to the was ordained in 1907 and spent all described was "one of the most up-to-date structures of its kind,"
Beer prices may rise 

In Maine in a press release dated January 11, 1945. "Among its major
INDIANAPOLIS--Alcoholic beverage wholesalers reportedly have features will be a spacious foyer
told retailers that beer prices will increase if a bill prohibiting the and a chapel seating 290 persons,"
retailers from transporting beer becomes law, the Indianapolis Star 


Caucuses to meet 
the release continued. 
reported in its editions yesterday. 

by Randolph E. Schmid and for peaceful relationships with Built at a cost of $400,000, theSponsors of the legislation say it will prevent the possibility of Associated Press Writer Zaire and the moderate govern­collegiate gothic structure wasbootlegging. Distributors could deliver beer to out-of-county ment in neighboring Zambia." 
originally planned to house 200retailers, but they would not be required to do so. Retailers now can Maine Democrats begin display­In Washington, official campaign male students. It is currentlypurchase beer from any wholesaler in the state. 
ing "heir presidential preferences finance reports confirmed that occupied by 240 women.
Sunu .. y with the start of a month­President Ford is behind Republi­In outlining the calnedar oflong series of precinct caucuses. can challenger Ronald Reagan in
.,.__On Campus Today-.. 
activities for Pop Farley Month,It is the nation's third state to the race for campaign dollars. 
Klug stated, "We started planning hold caucuses and former Georgia Reports show Reagan raised9am-5pm --volunteer programs, peace corps and vista represent­events and there were so many
Gov. Jimmy Carter, who topped $1.93 million last year despite aatives will provide information and applications, library ideas we decided to celebrate theIowa's opening round, has cam­late start, outpacing Ford's $1.65
lobby whole month rather than just one

paigned longest and hardest among million. 
weekend."

the candidates in Maine. The Maine caucuses, similar to4:30pm --colloquim, conjugacy classes in special lineal and "We just wanted to celebrateParty officials said Carter ap­those held earlier in Mississippi,projective groups by prof. g.e. wall, univ. of sidney, 226 with everyone in the hall," Klugpears to have the strongest grass where Alabama Gov. George C.
computer center 

continued. ''And we wanted roots support. Sargent Shriver Wallace topped the list, and Iowa, everyone on campus to join in."
visited the state twice in recent are the first step in choosing4:30pm --seminar, "the synthesis structure and reactions of The Schlereth presentation isweeks, and supporters of Sen. Maine's 20 delegates to nextstable thione ylides" by prof. edward m. burgess, dept. 
scheduled for Feb. 8 at 8 p.m. inBirch Bayh of Indiana and former summer's Democratic Nationalof chemistry, georgia institute of technology, 123 the Farley Chapel; Hesburgh willSen. Fred Harris of Oklahoma have Convention in New York. 
nieuwland science hall, sponsored by chemistry dept. 
say Mass in the Chapel at 8 p.m. onbeen organizing in behalf of their The caucuses continue until the Feb. 15. Farley will sponsor a
candidates. end of the month, but candidates
6:30pm --slide show, two former peace corps volunteers once-traditional Wednesday nightBayh, meanwhile, issued a sta­have been concentrating their ef­showing slides of ghana and the philippines, Iafortune Coffeehouse on Feb. 25.
tement calling on the United States forts in the larger cities with theamphitheatre 1-c Farley residents will attend ato establish direct diplomatic con­earliest caucus dates. 
special birthday dinner in the North
tact with the Soviet-backed faction 
7pm --meeting, chess club, 227 computer center In other political news: Dining Hall on Feb. 10, and windin Angola. 

Ford's national campaign man­up the month's festivities with
"I believe the time has come for
9pm --demonstration, taw kwon do agers are taking command of his section celebrations towards the

a reversal of American policy and a 
Florida primary operations in a end of the month. No definite date 
new diplomatic initiatiVe by the 
has yet been set for the No Talentshakeup they hope will end bicker­
United States," he said. 

ing and strengthen the organiza­Show.

Gaelic course offered 
"Contacts with the United States 
A non-credit course in Conversa­tional Gaelic is being offered for any interested students by English Professor Sean Golden. The ses­sion was requested by many of Golden's Irish Literature students and menbers of the Celtic Society. 
The English Department has formally; requested that the Mod­ern Language Department institute a credit course in Gaelic beginning in September. Golden views his present class as a test of the interest in learning Gaelic. 
Although English is the primary language spoken in Ireland, Gaelic is extensively spoken and required for university study. · Students tion for a key test with Reagan.
planning  to  visit  Ireland  were  
especially pleased  with  the  new  
course.  


would provide the Popular Move­They believe the Republican race istry Professor James Danehy. ment with an opportunity to de­
Students wishing to enroll in the monstrate its independence of the close, but are not satisfied with the 
Choose Your course, which meets on Thursdays USSR, something we must encour­Flordia campaign--despite the Sauce-MUd at 6';30 p.m. in 331 O'Shaughnessy age," he added. "Further, they claim of their state chairman that Or Bot! Hall, should contact Golden or the might pave the way for negotia-everything is in top shape. Ford Watch Our 
travels to New Hampshire to Friday Ad. 
Celtic Society. . tions with other Angola factions, pursue votes there next weekend. 
NOTRE DAME -SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 
TRYOUTS FOR 
~~ 
Assisting Golden in teaching the course are Modern Language Pro­fessor Robert Nuner and Chemis-

W
fHAvEYOUR SAY ABOUT '1 ~1~ 
f%The Observer) I THE COLLEGIATE SEMINAR I 
Night Editor: Val Zurblis I FEB I 
Ass't Night Editor: John Cal-1 . 4 4:30 I 
cutt ILayout Staff: Bob Bellissimo, I Library Auditorium lounge 1 Bill Holtsnider 
I 

Day Editor: Mary Pat Tarpey Copy Reader: Don Reimer 1 Editorials: Martha Fanning A collllllittee named by Dean Charles Is studying the Features: Gregg B. Bangs ICollegiate Seminar. All students who are taking or have 1 Sports: Bill Brink taken the course are invited to share their thoughts with the I 
1
Ad Layout: Graif and .Whelan committee. 

• !~i=·~eere.v.o. K.c., Maryj I I 
MY HEART'S IN THE HIGHLANDS 
•
:~:: 
by 
• 
~~ 
~
William Saroyan 
::§:
Tuesday, Februay 3 at 7:00 p.m Wednesday, Februay 4 at 7:00 p.m. 
* 
callbacks Thursday, Februay s at 7 :00 
ii 
Laboratory Theatre Washington Hall at Notre Dame Please use iron staircase in rear 
ii 
Open to all Notre Dame . 5aint Nlarv's studenfs. 
i~~ 
·:='·
\ Night Controller: David Rust . I WE WOUlD ALSO WElCOME WRl'ITEN COMMENTS 1I . ~­
* Personal Financial Planner •~:~: 
.M
* 
Credit Management ~~~~ 

* 
Insurance Control :~ 


~
* 
Savings Plans ll~~

* 
Investment Counseling ~~~~ 

* 
Complete Tax Services l~;

* 
Financial Security 111~ 


M 

For the Individual & Family AIMS GUARANTEES TO SAVE YOU $500.00 MORE 

A rr M §® 

THIS YEAR 
.Larry & Shirley McDaniel AIMS .&seland Agency 207 Dixie Way No., Suite 200 South Bend, IN. 46637 (219) 277·2922 :·:· 
~
.

I 
Write: Care of Dean's Collegiate Seminar Conunittee The Observer' is published N'ooday Dean's Offi.re O'Shag
1 I 1Eali"£~;-A;;;.;i~;i·;-wrlt;·£~;·n;ct;;;··--···---··----·----I
through A"iday and \Wekly during the 

surrmer session, except during the D. Costello 
I :~ 
exam; and vacation periods. The J Eldt
I 

Observer is published by the students · 
I ~~Name I
of the lkliv. of Noire ~ and St. W. l.eahy 
I I j
Miry's College. Subsaiptions ITIIY be P. Gleason
1purchased for S18 (SlO per semester) 

fro, The Observer. Box Q, Notre J. lbos
1 I ~ Addres J•~
Dame, lndia'la 465.56. Second Class K Tillman postage paid, Notre Dame, IN .46556. • . 

i.::::::::::::::::::::::::::-.-;:::::::;;:::::::::m;l!W~:::&:!:~;::::~:~;~.z~~.z~_:;;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::~::::::~:·:· ­
'• I • •


----------------~ 
, ' • I f • 1 I , r I • I o , I ~ I • o o o I I • 0 o I • 

... 
Monday, February 2, 1976 the observer 
3 



Correspondent reveals CIA spending in Angola 
Atrport last Wednesday and some far to the FNLA and UNITA forcesBRITAIN (AP) -A British diplo­told reporters they were an ad­and that more authorized moneymatic correspondent reported Sun­vance guard of mercenaries bound was still in the pipeline.
day that more than $20 million, for the Angolan civil war. A Another British Sunday news­mainly from the CIA, is to be spent Hamburg newspaper said West paper, the Observer, quoted a on mercenaries in Angola. The Germans are also being recruited spokesman for an organizationKremlin, meanwhile, launched a as mercenaries. called Security Advisory Services rare personal attack on Secretary of The Britons left by Sabena SAS as saying the recruiting ofState Henry A. Kissinger, accusing Airlines for Brussels and press British mercenaries was beinghim offalsifying Moscow's position reports said from there they would financed with American money.
in the embattled southwest African fly to Kinshasa, Zaire. The Zaire Some of Wednesday's departingnation. 
government backs the FNLA, Britons told reporters the SAS, Norman Kirkham, diplomatic which with its National Union based in Surrey, a county south­
correspondent of the Sunday Tele­UNITA allies aided by South Afri­west of London, had recruited them graph, quoted diplomatic sources can troops, has been losing to as Angolan mercenaries. in Zaire as saying that $200,000 of Soviet-backed forces of the Popular The Observer said the SAS American money given to the Movement MPLA and the MPLA's spokesman claimed there was a Western-backed National Front Cuban allies in Angola. liaison officer in the American 
FNLA in Angola has already been Kirkham said at least 300 Britons Embassy in London with whom the sent to London to recruit mercenar­were joining Western-backed for­organization was dealing. But the ies. ces in Angola. paper said he declined to name the He added that the CIA had officer. An embassy spokesman
Over 100 tough-looking British 
allocated about $49.2 million in denied the embassy had been in men flew out of London's Heathrow 
arms, other supplies and cash so any way involved in the recruit-
Thieves steal Picasso paintings 
Puaux said the thieves "took the
French police also reported the

AVIGNON, France (AP) -Three theft of a painting Sunday from the paintings hung low down on the hooded gunmen beat and bound Louvre in Paris, by a man who wall and left behind those hungthree guards and made off with 119 
near the ceiling."unsigned Picasso paintings from an 
walked off with a small 14th 

century oil on wood after asking They also broke one case housingexhibit in the 14th century papal valuable items in the hall, and took
another visitor what was worth

palace here, police reported Sun­
a sketchbook known as ''the Catal­day. The thieves apparently had taking. 
an Notebook." It contained draw­
In sheer volume, the Picasso

inside information and acted with ings by Picasso when he was 12.
theft appeared to be one of the

split-second timing. 
Picasso produced the stolen
biggest art heists of all time. Police

Art experts said the untested works between September 1970
said the unidentified gunmen were

market for unsigned Picassos made and June 1972. Puaux explained
probably professional art thieves,

it impossible to estimate the full that the artist did not sign them
but in their haste to get away they

value of the paintings, which were because he put his name on a
left 17 other Picassos stacked near

loaded into a van in the palace 
canvas only when he was ready to courtyard Saturday night. They the foot of a stairway. part with it. 
were part of an exhibition of 201 Authorities said they had two The famed themes of Picasso's 
Picassos insured for $2.47 million, "very thin" leads. One of the artistic life -erotic couples, dis­but police said the paintings were robbers was reported to have a torted and anguished faces, bull­worth more than that. 
Spanish accent, and a tourist fighters -appeared in the paint­"In the end they arc probably 
reported seeing a rented white van ings. Puaux had said in 1973 that worth nothing to the thieves be­in the vicinity of the palace about the 201 works seemed a recapitula­cause they are catalogued, photo­
the time of theft. tion of Picasso's life rather than an graphed, inventoried and indexed, 
attempt to break new ground.and the information has long been The paintings had been exhib­Avignon Mayor Henri Duffaut distributed worldwide," said Paul ited in the Hall of the Great Chapel 
said the way the crime was carried Puaux, director of the Avignon Art in the Palace of the Popes, where 
out pointed to inside knowledge.

Festival who set up the show. the Papacy was located from 12~9 The thieves, for instance, seemed "What can the thieves do with to 1377, since Picasso's death m 
to be aware of a recent change in them? In my opinion the paintings April 1973 at age 91. The Avignon 
the lock of the exhibition room 

cannot be sold," he said. "They cultural council was in charge of door. And they evidently were have above all a sentimental val­the paintings pending the end of aware of the guard routine and ue. t' litigation among Picasso's heirs. 
timing. 

Ski trip still planned for Feb. 6-8 
by PauJ Conclaldl compete with Mardi Gras," and their main concern was the conflict 
StaH Reporter since Mardi Gras is drawing from in scheduling two large events on 
the entire South Bend community the same weekend with little 
Plans for the Student Union Ski the thirty or forty people on the ski concern for the calendar of events Trip to Crystal Mountain, Michi­trip would not hinder the Mardi that was established by the Student gan, have not changed despite Gras profits or the North Quad Union Social Commission to help objections raised by several North party. relieve such difficulties. 
Quad Hall Presidents. In a letter to Jack Hanzel, Zahm president The Student Union replied that the Observer Friday, several Hall and an author of the letter, stated the ski trip was in no way a major presidents voiced their objections that his objection was mainly in the event of the magnitude of Mardi to planning the ski trip at the same scheduling of two events on the Gras and therefore did not conflict. time as Mardi Gras and the North same weekend. He voiced the They felt that such a large univer­Quad party. objection that persons wanting to sity community as Notre Dame 
Jamie Cain, associate director go to the North Quad party and the should be able to handle two events for the Student Union, felt that the ski trip would not be able to do at the same time. ski trip would not be detrimental to both. He also cited the shaky As it stands now, the ski trip is Mardi Gras. He said that "the financial condition of Mardi Gras still scheduled for this weekend, Student Union was not trying to and wondered if the ski trip would and positions are still available 
cut into the Mardi Gras profits. from the Student Union ticket 
The hall presidents stated that office.
Festival change 




r-------------------------,
The Sophomore Literary Festival Committee announced yesterday 



I WSND i
that the schedule of guest speakers 
for the festival will be altered 
slightly. 
I I 
Robert Penn Warren, originally 
I NEEDS BODIES FOR I 
scheduled to appear Friday, Feb. 
20, will give his presentation in 
I

Washington Hall on Tuesday, Feb. I NEWS & SALES 
17. Poet Robert Hass has been 1 
1

rescheduled to appear Friday, Feb. 
I I 
20 in the Library Auditorium. 
The festival opens Sunday, Feb. I TO SIGN UP: I 15 with an appearance by Jorge Luis Borges and concludes Satur­
! COME TO 361 O'SHAG I
day, Feb. 21 with a presentation by 
Galway Kinnell. Other guest artists 
I TUESDAY AT 7:00P.M.,, .· I
will include John Gardner, Louis 
Simpson and May Sarton. 

L-------------------------J 
ment of mercenaries. Angola that threaten U.S. -Soviet 
The Observer quoted the SAS relations. 
spokesman as saying the organiza­"The logic of the U.S. secretary 
tion had received $564,000 in the of state clearly is inconsistent," 
past three weeks. Pravda said. The Communist party 
In Moscow, Pravda's interna­newspaper said the Soviet Union 
tional review of the week criticized does not seek economic, military or 
Kissinger because of the secre­any other advantage in Angola and 
tary's call for American reaction to repeated that Soviets are not 
Soviet moves in Angola. engaged in armed fighting." 
The Soviet press infrequently In another section of the review, 
attacks Kissinger personally, but Pravda complained that the Pent­
Pravda said Kissinger told a Senate agon continues its attempts to 
subcommittee that the Soviet Un­mislead the public by misrepre­
ion and Cuba seek advantages in senting Soviet foreign policy. 
Liang speaks at SMC 
by Molly MacCourtney broaden the mind of the lawyer and 
Staff Reporter be very beneficial in his future 
Professor Liu Chun-Hwa Liang years of studying. 
last night stressed the importance A big event in the S.M.C. Law 
of a comparative legal studies Society's calendar is International 
course in a law student's curricu­Law Day. The United States 
lum, in a discussion before the St. Congress set aside May 1 as a 
Mary's Law Society. He stated that celebration of the legal traditions of 
International Law was not a requir­America. This celebration is con­
ed course and that this will nected with the Bicentennial pro­
eventually hurt the perspective of gram. St. Mary's has tenatively 
America's lawyers. booked Grace Olliavarez, first wo­
Speaking on international law, man graduate of the Notre Dame Liang went on to say that the Law School, as their guest speaker. lawyer involved with only one legal Other plans on the Law Society's system has a very narrow and calendar include the appearance of limited perspective. "He does not Virginia Dill McCarthy, attorney get the broad, far away picture and general of Indiana, to speak on convinces himself that his system is February 10, the election of new the only way," noted Liang. officers, and the establishment of a 
Liang, a Notre Dame law profes­monthly newsletter. 
sor, noted that the comparative The Law Society of SMC is a very 
legal studies program doesn't deal young organization and has future 
with as much coercion and enforce­hopes. Through the Career Devel­
ment. opment Center and publicity. the He continued by saying that the Society would like to increase its intern lawyer is more likely to deal membership. Mozelle DeLong, with such topics as the space President of the Law Society, said program, warfare, international that they would like to establish economic organizations, the independence from the student League of Nations and the U.N. government, increase dues, and 
Charter. establish an alumni honorary. 
Liang concluded his discussion ''The goal of the Law Society is to 
by accentuating the fact that he give future law students a chance 
would like to see future law to expose themselves to the situa­
students carefully considering the tions and people that would be 
International Law program. He helpful with their admittance to law 
feels this type of course would school," concluded DeLong. 
Special Skills Needed PEACE CORPS VISTA 
Interview this week for jobs in 69 developing countries. New opportun ities available for grads w1th ma1ors 
Engineering, Bu~iness, 
Biology and SCiences, Agriculture, Lib. Arts et. al. 
Talk To Recruiters 
Today 
Library Main Concourse 

************************************ 
* *
* *

i REGAL LANES i 
* : is organizing : * * *
* * 
: * a St. Mary's · Notre Dame : * 
$"mixed doubles league" this spring. :* * h. d. . * 
~ We hope to make t IS a tra ttton : : for our ND · SMC friends. i i* * l ~ for further information l
*
l CALL 259-5209 i * 
: 1121 W. 8th St. Mishawaka * 
.................................... 

time and money and will thus
Dear Editor: I thank all of you people who I oplnlon~~~~~~~~~~
bolster the present state of the 
came to know, especially the
Several days ago, readers of this economy. 

people in Sorin Hall and CILA. You
page were introduced to the quest­Therefore, inherent in my paper 

have all helped make my life a
ionable notion that the failure of is the elusive solution to the 

whole lot more worthwhile.
over one-third of a group of 

Bicentennial
problem of inflation which has handpicked law students to achieve evaded economists for so many Michael Fitzsimmons at least a score of 70 percent on a years.
Torts examination is a triumph of Finally, I have nothing against 




Shoot-Out
academic standards. Similarly, the mice personally. However, if they 

Tango at
refusal of their professor to recog­don't share the cost of the room Inize the blatantly anomalous char­don't believe that they should live 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-rJPhil quadrini
acter of this performance in relat­


Notre Dame
in it either. 

ion to their other courses has become a victory for his personal Jim Talamo The nation's Bicentennial is the theme of this year's Mardi Gras integrity. "The Great White Hunter" Dear Editor: Festival, and all things known or rumored to be American will be 
This reader is struck by two represented in the hall booths. However, there is one thing not there possible explanations for this phe­How is it that such a fine that the Festival needs and that is a shooting gallery. 

Good-bye 
"Is that American" you ask.
nomenon: 1) the law school admis­Christian university as Notre Dame Not necessarily, but it can be made as American as apple pie or Eggsions criteria are biased in favor of which forcibly removed 'offensive' McMuffin simply by changing the red star that one shoots out fromadmitting a strain of tort-resistant banners from some halls during the 
Message 
the target paper to that of a picture of your favorite political leader, student or 2) something in the USC weekend, could allow such an dead or otherwise. A wide choice is available including Johnportrayal of material in the class­obviously obscene movie as LAST
Dear Editor: Kennedy, Robert Kennedy, and George Wallace (his legs only). Inroom or a bias in the testing TANGO IN PARIS to be shown on compliance with HEW regulations regarding equal opportunity,mechanism or both is distracting a I have decided to take a leave of campus? 

Martin Luther King, Medgar Evers and Malcolm X would also benear-majority of the class. The absence from the University for a Is there a sense of morality at available. For those of you who would like to see some new faces, ainstructor's refusal to consider the semester or two. I am writing this Notre Dame only during the foot­mystery silhouette of one of the dozen Democrats running for theletter to say goodbye to the people I 
likelihood of the latter being true ball weekends, when the alumni Presidential nomination could be added. However, if Ted Kennedymissed saying goodbye to and also
does not make it any less valid. are around to gasp in horror (and decides to run, his picture would replace the mystery silhouette, andto say why I have decided to leave
A continuing receptivity to objec­withhold their contributions)? 
the standard shooting gallery BB rifle would be replaced with asuch a renowned institution and a
tive manifestations of behavior and Or is Father Hesburgh away bazooka. Likewise, a special rifle has been provided for the Martinplace where an ease of mind and 
an accomodation to them is a vital for the weekend, so he won't walk Luther King target , courtesy of the FBI.
contentment are supposed to prev­
concommitant of academic pro­around "grim and white-faced"? The American shooting gallery would be divided into two booths, gress. Until the madness in this ail. Notre Dame is a place to grow, to one Republican and one Democrat. At the former, Ronald Reaganmethod is eliminated, torts will learn and have fun. But in each Steve Thompson and Gerald Ford would be featured and the guns used would be a toycontinue to be a competitive rather person, there must be some purpo­pistol and a real one that doesn't shoot. Needless to say, you would than co-operative venture--the anti­se and reason for doing things. A have to be crazy to come to this booth and should instead gc to the thesis of a true learning experience purpose in living, pursuit of a Democratic booth where all the action is. There, a replica of Lee

Amazing

worthwhile and rewarding career, Harvey Oswald's $12.98 Mannlicher-Carcano rifle, complete with aThomas C. Bahlo an ability to maturely deal with wobbly left-handed scope, will be used. Some of you may complain personal and sexual relationships, that this is unfair. But, remember, Lee Harvey did all right and he

Infirmary

pursuit of interests not pertaining was right-handed. to academia and an understanding For the first contest you will have a maximum of 5.6 seconds to fire 


Mice Solution 

and acceptance of my duty and three shots. The first shot must pass thru JFK's picture and then a
Dear Editor: 

role as a human being are the main picture of John Connally. To laymen, the two pictures will not appear 
Recently I had to spend a couple
Dear Editor: emotional, philosophical and intell­to be in the right line of fire for this to happen. Fear not. Many
of days at the Notre Dame infirm­
ectual problems I have been deal­people have discovered that bullets do strange things in the air,
I changed my pillow case and I ary and I was amazed at the
ing with this past year or so. especially if they've worked for the Warren Commission or on a CBS
have witnesses. excellent and considerate care giv­
Notre Dame at ttmes was a documentary on assassinations. The second shot must miss and the 
In addition, I feel that my en to us patients. I would like to
perfect place to look for answers for third one must completely obliterate JFK's picture. This 
upcoming thesis, The Seasonal take this opportunity to thank the
these problems and even help solve accomplished, you have two minutes to disassemble the rifle, hide it, 
Thank
Migration Patterns of Mice in a them. But at times I was obsessed infirmary doctors and staff. and run around Stepan center three times until you come to a coke Male Undergraduate Dorm was not with questions, interests and pres­you and God bless! machine where you will be found nonchalantly sipping a coke. Then given justice. If successful, my sures I just couldn't handle. Marlon Obomy you have to go to the Engineering Auditorium to watch a movie, and 
on your way hit a campus policeman with a snowball. The winners of this contest will receive a copy of the Warren Commission Report and a chance to compete in Contest #2. 
In this contest you will have an 8-shot revolver and must shoot the RFK picture three times, and in the process, hit five bystanders. The trick here is to hit the picture from behind at point-blank range, even though you are standing in front, three feet away. The second trick is to put three holes in the booth's ceiling and one in a doorframe. This may all seem impossible but the Los Angeles Police Department says it is very easy. One shot passes thru RFK and into the ceiling, bounces off a beam above and comes back down, and then bounces off the floor before striking the bystander. Simple. And don't worry about putting a hole in a doorframe. That was just a misprint. Once finished, you will have no recollection at all of what you did, not even under sodium pentathol. First prize will be a 5 by 8 glossy of Richard Nixon at his 1968 Inauguration. 
There may be some clown, probably a former congressman from New York, who will want to examine the booth's ceiling and doorframe to see if you really did all that. And he may be joined by a bystander and by Charles Manson's prosecutor. Don't worry. The Mardi Gras Committee will destroy the evidence. Then you will go on to Washington, D.C. to compete with finalists from all over the country in the July 4th National Gang Bang. Be sure to do well there. The CIA, FBI, Mafia, and Russian Secret Police will be recruiting. 
Afterwards, there will be a party at the White House celebrating 200 years of freedom. 
\... AND IN lHIS CORNER I I'M PLEASEDTO SAY... I 

,.. 

*T~Q~~rver
Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is published by the students of the University EDITORIAL BOARD of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported 
AI Rutherford Managing Editor as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent 
Jim Eder Executive Editor
the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­

Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor
mentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, 

Bob Mader News Editor
cartoons and regular columns express the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Maureen Rynn Can.,us Editor community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free Mary Janca St. Mar(s Editor expression of varying opinions on campus. Ken Bradford Copy Editor 
Val Zurblis Wire Editor Editorials: 283-1715 News: 213-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Tom O'Neil Features Editor Business Manager Tom Modglin Bill Brink Sports Editor Advertising Manager Tom Whelan Dan Sanchez Senior Night Editor 
Monday, February 2, 1976 



P.O. Box Q 
Academic 
theories could revolutionize mouse Part of it is lack of self-control. catching as we know it today. If my And part of it was the institution of Notre Dame. The competitive aca­
intense research proves fruitful, it 
demic structure demanded a lot
will enable exterminators to predict 
more time and energy than I
the exact place a mouse will be at
Triumph 

wanted to give. Notre Dame is a
any given time. The instantanious 
very special place. But it is not for
capture of these rodents will save 
everybody. 

DOONESBURY 
HE~ Bt0NP15­HeMP YOV FINAllY GOT YOl/RSC/.F AN OJ..! MAN! 
5ee, IF YOU IUAS TO 
UV(3 WITH HIM, YOU'll 813 CLYlJI3_ OP&NIN6 UP GINNY:S OP­ANPY'S TION~ RIXJMMATCIAIISC, 
by Garry Trudeau 
toNfJ cNOUfJH! NOT I'lJ 50 HJVc IN 
eXACTLY, IUITH f.IIM IF I Cl.YP/3.. I'VE W&!?£ YOU/ ONL-Y KNOIAIN l 
HIM fOR A Wc&K ... 
I 
FOI<. CI<Y!N' OUT tOU/1 6/RL.­!JON'T B&SO 
BVT I 
Set..FI5H/ 


Monday February 2, 1976 the observer 
5 


theatre 
endgame-more real than nothing 
j 

maria o'meara 

stylized, they interest us. The boring across the land or over the sea. These "Sometimes I wonder if I'm aspects of the play also come from these exruciating scenes build up so that when repetitive cycles. Clov ascends the ladder for the fourth time, in my right mind. Then it Contained within the circle of the play I had the overwhelming urge to storm up itself, various other cycles repeat themsel­onto the stage and push the actor off the 
passes over and I'm just as ves. Like the last hand of a Whist game ladder. after all the important cards have been Viscious parent-child cycles also contri­lucid as before." played, the game plays itself out, necessar bute to the perverse fascination and ily following what has been previously boredom of the play. Denial, manipulation 
Endgame traps the audience somewhere established. The inter-dependent relation­cruelty and selfishness are only a few of the between fascination and utter boredom. It ship between Clov and Hamm provides factors which are important in Hamm's is not a suspenseful drama by any means, never-ending frustration and intentional relationship with Hagg and Nell [his as the outsome is revealed in the first lines boredom. Hamm needs Clov to be his parents who Jive in trash cans]. Hagg of the play: "Finished, it's finished, nearly represents a legless , isolated progeni­finished, it must be nearly finished. Grain tor. He exemplifies the inevitability of 
upon grain. one by one, and one day, their situation by saying: "If it wasn't me, suddenly, there's a heap, a little heap, the it would've been somebody else." The impossible heap." And fittingly, the play American flag draped around his can may
has no end. It is an extremely ambiguous have been hi-centennially appropriate, but script. Does Clov leave Hamm, thereby it detracted from the oppressive grayness committing suicide and murder, or does he which should be an important part of the 
remain, trapped in his endless cycle of production. 


blind obedience? Because of its ambigu­Throughout the play, self-conscious lines ous nature, the play could be performed 
remind the audience of its own presenceback to back with itself until it obliterated 
and the "playness" of the work. These the audience's sense of time. Like reminders prevent the viewers from beingFlnnegans Wake it has no beginning and totally drawn in, and forces then to make no end. their own decisions. By using this device 
This continuous progression of cycle Bedkett refuses to manipulate them and within cycle within cycle is very much like thereby accepts moral responsibility for the the song in Waiting for Godot about the effect of the play. As Colv looks out the 
dog who came into the kitchen stole some window with his telescope, Hamm asksbread. is killed by the cook and buried by him what he sees. "Multitudes," Clovthe other dogs who write on his gravestone replies. Unfortunately, in this productionthe story of a dog who came into the he was not looking directly at the audiencekitchen and stole some bread ... It is within but off into space. The lack of anthese repetitions that the fascination intermission is essential to the structure ofarises. They touch the common experi­the play. Repetitions built up in the ence of habits, yet because they are so 

records 
roxy's ferry finds himself the loner 
Bryan Ferry's image as a romantic Ferry's thematical construct but a means of Ferry says in "Could It Happen to Me?" It poseur naturally entails an underlying perceiving his environment as an extension is a summary of the major themes of the paradox, a contradiction in terms; and it is of his own romantic pose. album and a reminder of his complete 
for this reason that he and his band have An obvious illustration of Roxy's attitude objectivity toward his work. Above the been called decadent. In playing the part toward its music can be seen in the cover smooth wailing guitar work of Phil Manza­of the Byronesque hero with jaded sensibil­concept for their album. Stretched out nera, Ferry is quizzically asking himself ities, Ferry could very well have cheapened sensuously in an eerie blue haze on the whether his love could fall for an average the thematical content of his songs by rocky shore is a siren, a tempting man "whose old world charm is not trying to convince the listener that he was enchantress from another world. Yet right enough." He doesn't answer his question sincere which would ultimately have made away we can see she's a fake, from the but lets us come to the obvious conclusion Roxy appear self-indulgent and trite. Max Factor make-up job on her face down when he tells us everything he touches 
Ferry and Roxy overcome this danger to her painted blue fingernails. She brings "turns to dust." 
however, by using a highly artificial lyric to mind the tawdry image of the girl on all style while playing with a wild abandon those White Rock soda bottles. It's a This theme is continued in "Sentimental that at once pokes fun at Ferry's romantic romantic idea placed within a commerical Fool" where we find the protagonist inclinations as well as heightens the effect setting. The music inside the album is just weighing the virtues of Jove against bitter 
of the dramatic inherent in such a as commerical although Ferry does not personal experience in a dramatic mono­make any lyrical concessions. Siren finds logue. It is a very sensuous and evocative
sensibility. 
Ferry's major deal an song with Ferry emerging from the distant
him still in the guise of the dissatisfied loner. and mysterious tones of Eddie Jobson's 
themes with 

idealistic quest for love and spiritual synthesizer. Throughout the song Manza­fulfillment. Although he sees the world as Let us sing of the tortured heart nera's guitar snakes in and out to cover thesterile and artificial his unchanneled And of the lonely soul in his world apart forceful bass lines until both are obscuredromanticism forces him to speak of it only As he plays the field takes a Uttle palo by Andy McKay's sax. The piece buildsin terms of romantic imagery. This And move our separate ways again to a gradual crescendo and ends suddenlyimagery then is not just an integral part of 

records 

the ~desire' for dylan grows stronger 

gregg bangs 
swipe at anything that might "merit" prevents some songs from coming on too attention on that prime time broadcast. strong. A perfect example is found on 
"Mozambique" on the other hand, is a "Joey" where her high harmonies tone
Desire continues the trend started by 

lively tune which speaks of "having down Dylan's heavy handed sarcasm.
Blood On The Tracks and The Basement 
relations" on that island. Dylan's instrumental trademark has long 
Tapes that has established Bob Dylan as a 
been his trusty harmionica. Although it
major musical influence of the seventies as There are several items that make this 
still pops up, the violin is challenging it for 
well as the sixties. album attractive. As always, Dylan's lyrics 
best supporting instrument. Rivera plays
The album will probably best be remem­are fascinating--they always manage to 
the violin with a bittersweet tone. Her
bered as bring the vehicle for "Hurricane" captivate a listener. (The only complaint 
opening chords in "Hurricane" practically
Dylan's protest over the sketchy grounds against this album is that there is no lyric 
tell you that you're going to be listening to
for imprisonment of Rubin "Hurricane" sheet provided.) From the bitter edged 
the recounting of a tragedy. Similarly in
Carter, a former middleweight boxing commentary of "Hurrucane" to the near 
"Sara", Rivera's violin seems to be saying 
contender. The song has also become the apologetic tone of "Sara", Dylan's lyrics 
that Dylan is very much concerned about
themesong of Dylan's recent Rolling continue to be the crux of his songs. 
his marriage even if Dylan didn't say so
Thunder Revue. His vocal deliveries are marked with 
himself. She is able to revert to the other
However, that song is but one of several authority. It is not always an overpowering 
end of the emotional scale in"Mozam­
fine cuts. As "Hurricane" is reminiscent harsh vocal, but one that seems to be in 
bique" by using shorter strokes to provide
of his social commentary tunes of the command of the situation. 
a bouncy, carefree tone. Dylan's albums
sicties, "Sara" is representative of Dylan's These vocals are perfectly complimented 
were often criticized for "bring the same 
recent writings of love songs. To be more by the harmonies of Emmy Lou Harris' 
tune with ten fantastic sets of lyrics." No
exact, it is an afirmation of love to his wife, voice and Scarlet Rivera's violin. Harris , 
longer (if ever) can that claim be substanti­
Sara. an accomplished country-folk singer, has 
ated. The instrumentation is excellent. So
"Joey" includes a rap on Walter an atractively fragile voice. It counterbal­
is this album. 

Cronkite's 7:00 news, which is really a ances Dylan's powerful delivery and beginning would be broken, and the ultimate [and very successful] effect of boredom would be lessened greatly. 
There were several members of the audience, however, who did not think that boredom should be "in"this year. This very expressive group, in a most rude and 
•disrespectful manner, walked out about half-way through the production. This type of abomonable behaviour, while being the traditional method of protest, is not only uncalled for, but highly immature. In a manipulative or poorly written play, this action would be justifiable, however End­game is neither. What is more atrocious than this type of behaviour? Nothing is 


dominick salemi 

on the hard snapping beat of the percus­sion, leaving us breathless so that we are helplessly caught up in "Whirlwind." With barely a pause the synthesizer reenters swirling around the muted sounds of the other members of the band. Then Ferry enters biting, snarling, asking; then demanding to be taken in by his metaphor for romantic rapture. Manzanera's sting­ing solo can only flail away harmlessly in the face of such a tempestuous wall of sound. 
"End of the Line," finds Ferry again casting himself in the loser's role. True to the mood of the piece, Ferry plays a honky-tonk riff on the piano backed by some melodramatic fiddling by Jobson. By the song's end we find him walking in the sun because he has "no love to keep him warm inside." 
The only real churning rock and roll number on Siren is "Both Ends Burning," with its impassioned vocal and stop-gap­ped, raving sax that seems to resent the intrusion of the strings. It is followed oddly enough by the most stylized piece on the album. "Nightingale" has Ferry asking the romantically symbolic bird to stay with him and help fuel his melancholy. A nice touch is added with the airs of the oboe placed on the periphery of the strings to bring a sense of wistfulness to the scene. 
Not all the songs on the album lean toward a romantic sensibility. "She Sells' is a-bouncy number that alternates disco funk with a sharp crisp beat and has the singer cooly disparaging his lover using newspaper jargon to suggest the lack of communication that exists between them. "Love is the Drug" opens the album with a thumping militaristic bass line backed by a quivering synthesizer. Ferry barks out the words amidst shrill horns that surge to a chorus undercut by discordant chords. It is a lament for lost innocence. Ferry's romantic world become's today sterile reality where love is only another high. It is fittingly ironic then, that by the time we get to "Just Another High," the last song on Siren, we have come full circle. Ferry is singing to all of us when he contradicts any notions we may have gotten from the opening cut. He confesses that he too has played the game but has disastrously fallen in love with someone with his former attitude. Ferry's jilted lover, "his heart aching, his spirit breaking," ever the Byronesque hero, is left to wander off in the sunset vainly searching for the love that has been denied him. 
J 
I 
J 
I I 
1 
I I I I I I I j I I 
1 
I ! I I I I I I I I l 
l 
I 
I 
l 
.. 
the observer Monday, February 2, 1976 

Blackcaucus to participate in mock convention 
by Maggie Brydges Staff Reporter 

A black political caucus has been organized to act in a lobbyist capacity for the mock political convention, according to conven· tion delegate Chuck Wilson. 
Wilson, one of the two black delegates to the mock political convention, organized the group in early December. The idea was inspired by a similar student caucus formed in the interest of women's rights. 
The group's membership has grown since its initiation, and Wilson hopes to procure more members by generating enthus­iasm for the group and its goals. 
The current participants in the caucus are planning to act as spokesmen for their views and are also canvassing the campus to find out the views and ideas of other students. Wilson stated that one of his objectives was to try to institute these new ideas into the group's platform. 
The goals of the caucus are greater equality for blacks in areas of labor relations and standards, national economic policy, busing, housing ·and health care. These objectives were arrived at by unanimous consent at the caucus' first meeting. 
According to Wilson the candi­dates that come closest to support­ing the views of the political caucus include Fred Harris, Sgt. Shriver, and Jimmy Carter. 
Due to the caucus' late forma­tion, Wilson feels that the group won't achieve its full potency until the mock election. At that time, he 
Astronomer predicts that asteroid may strike earth 
CAMARILLO, Calif. (AP) · Like a dolphin playfully leading a ship to sea, an asteroid more than a mile wide skips back and forth across the earth's path. Like a shark, someday it probably will take a 20-mile bite out of the earth's side. 
There is a 75 per cent chance the asteroid, tentatively called "Fast moving Object Helin" for its discoverer, astronomer Eleanor Helin, will smash into the earth within 24 million years, creating a crater some 20 miles wide, Mrs. Helin said in an interview Satur­day. 
''It is the closest thing to the earth other than the moon in the solar system," said the 40-year-old Camarillo astronomer who discov­ered the asteroid with an 18-inch telescope at Mt. Palomar, near San Diego, on Jan. 7. 
Mrs. Helin, affiliated with the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena, said the asteroid is in an orbit around the sun which is almost identical to the earth's. 
"It spirals back and forth across our orbit," she said. "It loops around us once a year, each time crossing our path." She said its year is 348 days, compared with the 365 days it takes the earth to orbit the sun. 
~n,;,;·j§·~··., 
: difference!!! : 
: JlftMM 1'011 e • Owrr 1~ ''"' •
e M(AT :
olttperotncl 
: DAT aMI':t"' : 
: LSAT SNII~IIIMI : 
: GRE •
YolumoiiCIUI '-' 
: GMAT ''udr;,,.,,.,, : : Q(AT •
Cou1111 1~11 111
• (pAT 
COftll:lly updlltd : 
• VAT •
f1p1 IKolotou lor • 
• rewotws of clUI •
• 5AT 
ltiiOftl and lor use e
• flEX of lupplemtnlal't e
: ,,,,,,,, . 
• ECFMG • :
Ml•t UPI lor e lllllltd ltUOnl : 
: NA T'l MED BDS : ••• NA T'l DENT BDS : 
• 
• Mou clanes uart B Wl!eks : 
• 
pr1or to Exam • Sprong & Foil compacts 
•
• Some courses offered on 
: MaJor Compuuu • 
• INOIANAPOLIS 6620 Greenshore Orove 
•
•
lndoonapolos, Ind. 46220 
• : ••• . 13171 842-1267 
• • • • • • • .•• 
CHICAGO CENTER
• 
(312) 764-5151 
=~.fl. : •• 


: IUIPIAN : 
: (DlJColTIONoll ClNTfR : 

f(ST "'fJIA,..t.TIOH 
e ,.,.____,_ wr IIIII • •• 1212)1»-la •• 
• • ,...(..._" 'NtO" u 5 ":•ttft 

Caltech astrophysicist Eugene Shoemaker is proposing that the National Aeronautics and Space Administration land a spacecraft on the asteroid, which is estimated to be between one and two miles in diameter. 
feels that minority reports, plat­form amendments and block voting will be the group's most influential tools. 
Wilson cited several differences between this black political caucus, and one on a national scale. "More 




THE PARTY'S OVER. 

All too often, when the party ends, the trouble begins. 
People who shouldn't be doing anything more active than going to sleep are driving a car. Speeding and weaving their way to death. 
Before any of your friends drive home from your party, make sure they aren't drunk. 
Don't be fooled because they drank only beer or wine. Beer and wine can be just as intoxicating as mixed drinks. 
And don't kid yourself because they may have had some black coffee. Black coffee can't sober them up well enough to drive. 
If someone gets too drunk to drive, drive him yourself. Or call a cab. Or offer to let him sleep over. 

Maybe your friend won't be feeling so good on the morning after, but you're going to feel terrific. 
~RUNKDm~R~EIT~----~~ 
BOX 2345 : ROCKVILLE. MARYLAND 20852 : 
~P_:-:_: _j 

1 I want to keep my friends alive  1  
l for the next party.I Tell me what else I can do.  1 I  
J  \1v nam~ i~­ .  1  
1.\ddn·ss  J  
I('  s  I  l  

L ~------;:_ ~~~---=--­
FRIENDS DON'T LET FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK. (B~ 
~-.-~· 


NORWAYSWEDEN DENMARKGERMA NYHOLLANDBELG IUMLUXEMBOURG FRANCEAUSTRIA SWITZERLANDIT ALYSPAINPORTU 
GAL 

The longestcountry in Europe. Two months for $195. 
Student-Railpass covers 100,000 miles of track in thirteen European countries, all the way from the Arctic to the Mediterranean. And $195 buys you unlimited Second Class rail travel for two whole months. On a student's budget that's some deal. In fact, the only thing cheaper is thumbing it or wearing down your heels. Besides that, the trains are fast (some zip along at 100 mph), clean, comfortable and fun. You can go and come whenever you like. And 

you'll meet more Europeans than you would on the road. Trams are ynam1 e. .ut ow about femes, lake crUisers,
. d 't B h · · river boats and hydrofoils? Student-Railpass covers them, too. And it'll even get you discounts on motorcoach trips. If you want to do it big and mingle with the First Class types, think about Eurailpass. Same places, same trains (First Class, though), in two-week, three-week, one-month, two-month and three-month passes. To get a Student-Railpass, you have to be a full-time student, under 26. And both Student-Railpass and Eurailpass are sold here through a Travel Agent. You won't be able to buy them in Europe. So plan ahead. We've got a big country waiting. 

blacks are Democrats than Repub­licans," he said, "and there is a much higher proportion of black delegates in the national conven­tion." 
Wilson emphasized that the ov­erall tonality of the caucus is · 
informative and realistic, rather than emotional and radical. There will be a meeting of the caucus Tuesday, Feb. 3 at 7:00 
p.m. in the Black Cultural Arts Center in LaFortune. All those interested are urged to attend. 
Eurailpass, Box Q, 
Staten Island, N.Y. 10305 
Sounds like an incredible bargain. Please send me free information on Student-Railpassand Eurailpass. Name________________________________ Address ______________________________ 
City ______________state,____Zip____ My Travel Agent is _______________ 

MondayI February 2, 1976 
the observer 

Hockey team splits with Colorado 

by Tom Krucek 

Colorado College's goaltender Eddie Mio turned away a total of 91 shots in two days, while the:>fficials whistled a total of 80 minutes in penalties as Notre Dame and Colorado College split in weekend action at the ACC. The Tigers won Friday night S-4, while the Irish won Saturday 3-1. 
Friday night's game was marred by 22 penalties, ll on both squads. Looking at those totals, it would appear that the game was a free-for -all, which it wasn't. The two officials, Tom Yurkovich and Stan DuBois, trying to keep the game in hand, called the game so tight that neither team could make a move without being sent off the ice. 
"The referee's had a great bearing on the game." Coach Charles(Lefty) Smith observed af­ter the first encounter. "They destroyed both team's momentum on several occasions and just called the game too tight." 
The game began the way the series was to proceed, as just 57 seconds into the game, Notre Dame's Brian Walsh was chased for tripping. CC wasquick to take advantage of this opportunity, as less than a minute after the penalty was asessed, Wayne Holmes won a face off, got the puck back to Curt Christofferson at the point, who found Larry Soltvedt open at the right point and beat goalie Lenny Moher with a slap shot just inside the left post. 
The Irish then tied the score three minutes later, benefitting from a Tiger penalty. The Irish kept good pressure on Mio during the time that John Stampohas was resting for a high-sticking, but could manage just one shot on goal. 
Then, seconds after the penalty was over, Kevin Nugent coming down on the left side wound up and rifled a rocket that Mio rejected, but lost control of the rebound which Don Fairholm picked up and put into the net over the goalkeep­er's right shoulder. 
Notre Dame then jumped in front at the 7:25 mark. oft) e first period. as Jack IBrownschidle picked up his sixth goal of the season, beating Mio on a slap shot from the left point that somehow made it through a crowd of players that screened the All-American goalie. Assisting were Paul Clarke and Alex Pirus. 
NOTICES Will dO typing, experienced. Term ~. l"lWlusaipts, etc. call 233-8512.  
Need atune-up? You buy the pais, I will instllll plugs, points, condenser 111d set timing tor $8. Call Bob 8610.  
Morrissey Loan $20-$150, one day wait, 1 pet"Cent Interest. LaFortune, M-F, 11 :15· 12:15.  
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho, 232-0746. IBN1 Selectric II typing, l"lWlUSO"ipts, dissertations, experienced. 289-5193.  
UFE IN THE SPIRIT seminar.; begin Tues., Feb. 17th. R>r information call Karen 1312 or MNy Anne 1338. Old books and prints. Hour.;: Wednesday Saturday, Sunday 9-7 or d1111ce. Ralph Casper.;on, 1303 Buctlanan ~. Niles. WANTED Need riders FROM Milwalkee, wiiiiHVe Sunday lit 4 P.M. call AI 1715,3388. f'llrents need 2 GA Marquette tickets. call 3654.  
Volunteer.> tor the Milton Shapp tor R-esident Conm. II interested call Tom at 288-0088.  
I need GA and student tickets tor Marquette. Gille me a break. Reese call Pill 165.4.  
Need 2 MM!uette student tlx. AI 3388,1715.  


The Irish then closed the first period scoring at 9:48 on a power play, as Notre Dame had a two man advantage with Greg Smith and Mike Haedrick both off the ice. Clarke got credit for the score on assists from Clark Hamilton and Walsh, beating Mio on a rifle from the top of the left circle. 
Lynn Olson narrowed the Irish lead to a single goa\47 seconds into the second period on a beautiful pass from Mike Straub. But Notre Dame came right back while short­handed as Don Fairholm picked the puck off Smith's stick, and came in alone on Mio, faking once and putting the shot over his right shoulder. But this was to be the last score for the Irish and the difference was Mio. The senior goaltender rejected 24 shots in the final period while Tony Palazzari scored in the second period with Dave Hanson and Rick Pracht scoring in the final frame to hand the Irish their tenth loss in WCHA action. 
Saturday night, the referee's continued theilwhistlin_g ways, this time for 18 infractions. Notre Dame was caught 8 times and the Tigers 
10. The game turned into a battle of goaltenders with John Peterson making several key saves including a breakaway stop while Mio turned his second excellent performance, turning back 43 shots. 
The Irish jumped in front 2-0 on an unassisted first period goal by Don Fairholm and Walsh. The action was somewhat non-spirited in the period, with the majority of the action coming at the 12:41 mark of the frame when Dave Delich and Pracht were chased off for elbow ing and charging respectively, and took on a fan in a one round fight in back of the penalty box. 
The second period was likewise unspirited, with Colorado coming within a lo'(oal at 6:19, Smith scoring 
*SPECIALS* $1.49 
Mon: Chopped Steak Dinner 
OPEN
Tues: Ribeye Steak Dinner 11 to 9 P.M 
Wed: Ham Steak 
Dinner EVERYDA Thur: Chopped or 
1516 N.
Ribeye Steak Fri: Fish Dinner IRONWOOD Includes Angus Potato, 
289-0755
Salad and Toast 


-

NO's Paul Clarke scored one goal in Friday's loss to Colorado College. Saturday's contest. [Photo by Tom Paulius] 
with assi~ts from Straub and Olson. 
The action in the final period picked up. and 8 penalties were called. A penalty decided the final goal, as Soltvedt was excused for cross checking at 3:26. Mio did all he could in that power play reject­ing two shots by Pirus at point 
blank range and one more by 
Hamilton in tight before Pirus hit a
slapper from the right circle past Mio, who threw up is hands in exasperation as the red goal light went on. 
Smith was pleased with the team's performance Saturday night "I am really happy with the defense we played and the {>enalty killing was just super. We checked 
1 1,-I If I II' 

well and covered up well." 
Th~ win. Saturday night w~s especially Important, ~ecaus_e 1f Notre Dame and the Tigers tie. at the end of the. season, the Ir1sh would get the htgher s~ot because they took_the season serJes_3 games to 1. Thts could be the difference 
,----------------------------.

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 

INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF FEBRUARY 9 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Slgn~up 
schedules are in Room 213, Main Bulld ing. Interview times must 
be signed for in person. Law School sign-ups are at the Pre­
Law Society Bulletin Boards, O'Shaughnessy Hall. The sign-up 
period at the Placement Bureau will be from 8:00 am. to 
5:00pm., Monday through Thursday. 
FEB. 9 
Mon. 

FEB. 10 
Tues. 
FEB. 11 
we;r:-­

rEB. 11/12 Wed/Thurs. 
Employer Information. Alternatives. Teaching. Summer. Action/Peace Corps/Vista. Federal Service. Room 213, Administration Building. 
NOTE: A meeting will be held in Room 222, February 10, 5:00pm. for HNITED WAY INTERN PROGRAM. Persons with any degree, generally age 21-30 are eligible to apply. The United Way Intern Program is intended to provide an intensive and accelerated one-year training for young peopl~ in preparation for a professional career in the United Way Held. 
l/28/76 
Corning Glass Works. B in Acct, MBA. BM in ChE, EE, ME, MF.IO, Met. Dayton's. B in AL and BA. MBA. Eastman Kodak Co. B in Fin, Acct, Econ. Math. BM in ChE. ME, Chern. Pittsburgh National Bank. BBA and MBA. Trane Company. BM in ME. B in CE. MRA with BS Engr. 
American Fletcher National Bank. BBA and Mba Dwyer Instruments, lnc. B in ME. Internal Revenue Service. 
Cancelled. Interested students are requested to file SS Form 171. National Steel Corp. Cancelled. 
Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Co. BM in AL. All BBA. For: Sales & Sales Mgt. Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Internship Program. Juniors or Seniors going into Grad. Sch•• in all disc. interested in ins. sales connenclng this suTTDner, through sch. yr. and leading to perm. employment, Locations: Nationwide. Perm. residents visa required. PPG Industries. B in Acct, Chern. BM in ChE. 
Torrington Company. B in ME. For: Field Sales Engr. only. Whirlpool Corporation. BM in ME, CE, ChE. 
American Can Co. B in Fin. B in Econ. with interest in Financial Mgt. Program. Also B in Acct, MEIO. Dana Corporation. Rescheduled from Jan. 26. Few openings available. First National Bank in St. Louis. Cancelled. 
Ford 1'-!otor Co. Bin Acct, Fin, MBA. BM in AE, Engr. Sci., ME. B in MElO. 
Aetna Life & Casualty. Group Division. B in all disciplines. Babcock & Wilcox. B in ChE. BM in ME. M in MEND & Met. Detroit Bank and Trust. All BBA. Gulf Oil Corp. MD in ChE. Johnson Controls, Inc, B in ME and EE. Morse Division. Borg Warner Corp. B in Mkt. and Mgt. B in EE, ME, MEIO. 
The Irish CA~me back to win 

between opening the play-offs at home and home-ice advantage is 
usually  worth  at  least  a  goal  
advantalo'(e.  
Notre Dame takes  to  the  road  

this week, playing Denver Friday and Saturday night. 
• 
-------~~-------------­
; ... 
<

8 the observer Monday, February 2, 1976 ~ 
Cold-shooting Irish bow to Maryland
by Bill Brink coaches experimenting with the Sports Editor stall, and after taking a 55-52 lead with 9:27left the Irish became even Terrapins may be turtles, but colder from the floor than they had they sure aren't very slow. More been. They hit only four points in 
like hares than tortoises, the Ter­the next three minutes and only 
rapins of Maryland University used eight the rest of the game. Dantley
the devastating quickness of their was held scoreless after a free three great guards to edge out throw with 11:58 left. In short, the Notre Dame 69-63 Saturday after­Irish, waiting for the percentage noon. shot, found they could hit no shots 
The loss was the Irish's first at all. Maryland crept up on several home defeat of the season, and foul shots and then two buckets bysnapped a seven-game winning Mo Howard to make it 59-58 with 
streak which extended back to a 
6:45 remaining.January 3rd loss to UCLA at Los Phelps wanted to hold the ball 
Angeles. A capacity crowd of and control it but John Lucas 
11.345 watched as the Maryland fouled Bruce Flowers, who missed guards outran the Irish and set up a the free throw, and Steve Sheppard 
penetrating offense that caught ND put Maryland up 60-59 with 3:23 off balance. 
left. Duck Williams retaliated with "They've got three great a corner jumper, but Sheppardguards," admitted Irish coach 
came right back to put the Terps up Digger Phelps. ''Their big guys are for good, 61-60. Brad Davis threw going to do their thing and get their in his only basket of the day, Lucas points, but they beat us with their added two free throws, and David guards. John Lucas is super and hit a free throw, all neutralizing Brad Davis is a great ballplayer Ray Martin's final bucket for the too. They played a controlled game Irish with seven seconds left. Lucas and in the end it beat us." added an unneccessary jumper at Not by much, though. It was all 
the buzzer. that the Terps could do to overcome The statistics literally· incriminat­ND forward Adrian Dantley, who ed Notre Dame. They had shot 10 
scored on a tip-in with five seconds 

had gone rampant in the first half for 31 from the field in the second 
left to give Notre Dame a 40-38

when he exploded for 22 points. half, totaling only twenty-three 
halftime advantage.$

Enjoying a cold-shooting second­points in the whole half. Dantley's
half by the Irish, Maryland took a six second-half points was the Lucas led Maryland with 23 
The Irish Eye

one-point lead into the final two highest output by any Irish player points, a total which catapulted him minutes. They kept their poise and in the period, and his 28 game into first place on the all-time gratefully watched as the Irish twenty than his Maryland scoring list. Steve Shep·
points was more =====================================::=======================:::===========;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;:;:::::;:::;::::Glad Lefty left
went from cold to frigid in their closest follower, Dave Batton. pard added 19 points and puller1 The worst thing about losing to Maryland is losing to Lefty Driesell.
shooting, a drought which Phelps "We had control going into the down 10 rebounds. Maurice How The fiery coach of the Terrapins is everything that people think Digger painfully referred to after the stall," explains "When ard was next for the Terps with 12Phelps, Phelps is--a showboat, antagonistic, a chronic complainer. Duringgame. you make the shots in that type of points. Center Larry Boston was Saturday's game against the Irish he managed to berate everyone from
"We missed too many shots," offense you're a hero. It just didn't their high rebounder with twelve. NBC to his own John Lucas.he lamented. ''There were a lot of work today. We knew whoever had Toby Knight followed Dantley ar1d 
Before the game even began Lefty was complaining, this time to Diggereasy shots that just didn't go for the lead at the end would go into Batton in scoring for ND with 7 Phelps about the streamers and toilet paper that showered the Terrapinsus-1 mean a lot. They got theirs. It the four-corner offense. We just points, and also ended up the as they warmed up before the game. A brusk handshake ended their was close all the way and they kept missed too many of our shots." games high rebounder with thir­rather icy greeting, which Lefty finished off by waving Phelps away with atheir poise at the end." The first half started out all teen. Dantley pulled down 11 gesture of disgust. 
Indeed, the Terrapins won the Maryland, with the Terps using the caroms. 
Then during the first half Lefty antagonized the NBC crew by standinggame in the final minutes. The amazing quickness of their guards The loss set the Irish record at in front of one of their main cameras. When a frantic NBC official handed Irish had taken their largest lead, to open up as much as a nine-point 12-4. They travel to Philadel:c>hia Driesell a piece of paper asking him to move, he crumpled the paper up 45-40 at the 1:44 mark of the lead on the Terrapins. With Brad Wednesday night to face the La­and threw it away without even looking at it. Lefty got his licks in on thesecond half. But six straight points Davis leading the Maryland break Salle Explorers. 
scorers table too when, after a Mo Howard foul had drawn a commentby Maryland put them back up. down the floor, and Lucas and from the table, he turned towards it, jeering, and said, "shut yourNeither team could put together a Sheppard taking it inside, Mary­MARYLAND (8) mouth."
fg II reb pf piS

string of scoring and the teams land went up 15-6 after 5:16 had 
John Lucas ........ 6-14 11-13 3 I 23 Ironically, it was his own superstar John Lucas that Driesell reserved
inched back and forth until a elapsed in the game. Down 19-10 Steve ShPppard .... 7-11 5-10 10 I 19 his fiercest language for. He simply abused Lusas in the first half,jumper by Bill Paterno and a three Larry Boston. . .. . 3-8 0.0 12 3 6
two minutes later the Irish began to Maurice Howard .... 5-9 2-6 6 3 12 perhaps overlooking the fact that Lucas' heady play and sixteen first-half point play by Dantley gave the Irish battle back. Two baskets apiece· by Brad Davis...... .. 1-4 1-2 2 4 3 points had kept his Terrapins close. 
11:58 go. Jim Tillman ....... 2-3 1 4
a 54-51 lead with to Batton and Paterno put the Irish &-0 5 
... Brian Magid .. . . . .. 1-2 0.0 2 0 2 By the middle of the second half he had made such a nuisance of himself 
Eighteen seconds later Phelps within two, 22-20 with 9:50 to go in 0.0 2 0Chris Patton . .. ... 0.0 0 that during one of his tirades in front of the Terps bench the whole Notrecalled time out, and the Irish went Totals 25-51 19-31 36 19 69
the half. 

Dame band sang out in unison "sit down Lefty." You got the feeling that into their semi-stall offense, hoping The game then turned into a NOTRE DAME (G) the uncalled-for shot that John Lucas took in the last second of the gameto rest a tired Dantley and pull the battle of the All-Americans as fg rt reb pf pts was a reflection of the man who coaches him.
Adnan Dantley...... 11-22 1>-10 II

Terps out of the box-and-one spec­3 28
Dantley and Lucas began a Bruce Flowers ....... 2-7 9-2 7 5 4 Naturally he was full of down-south humility after the game, and, when
defense they were in. But Bruce tacular duel. Dantley hit from Davl' Batton ......... 4-10 0.0 6 2 8 it discovered there no
was was way to get the player's luggage andFlowers lost the ball out of bounds everywhere on the court, and Lucas Duck Williams .. .. . . 3-9 0.0 I 3 6 
Ray Martin .......... 1-4 9-0 0 4 2 equipment to the airport, Lefty personally loaded the gear onto theand Maryland took over. capitalized on short jumpers and Bill Paterno .. .. .. .. .. 3-5 0.0 2 4 6 
cramped minibus that carried the players away. Truly, the complete
Terrapin coach Lefty Driesell had Toby Knight.. .. ... .. 3-9 1-3 13 3 7
free throws. Two foul shots by 2 2 coach.
Jeff Carpenter ....... I-I 0.0 I

installed freshman James Tillman Dantley tied it at 34 apiece with Totals 28-67 7-15 42 25 63 Lefty has a super team every year, but can never make it all the way.
to stop Dantley, and Tillman re­3:35 to go, and with Terrapin Halltime: ND 40, Maryland 38. After Saturday's game you really don't feel sorry for him. His kids maysponded by holding A.D. to just six guards Howard and Davis sitting Shooting: ND 28 of fiT for 41 per cent; have had the edge on the court yesterday, but Irish sure had the edge onpoints in the second half, though he on the bench with three fouls, the Maryland 2S of 51 for 48 per cent 
Turnovers: ND 13, Maryland 13. the bench. fouled out in the process. The game Irish had the advantage. After Assists: ND 14 (Batton 3, Martin 3); proceeded slowly, with both baskets, Dantley Macyland 7 (Davis 4). Anyone that watched the weave drill that Maryland did during the
**********' 

warm-ups saw their whole offense right there. The Terps work an attack similar to Indiana's "motion" offense, and their weave is it's core. They set up a box, with two guards and two forwards in each corner of the half-court. The third guard then begins to weave with the two other guards near the mid-court line, until one of them will accelerate around his defender to the foul circle where the process begins again with that guard and the two forwards. Finally one will accelerate again to the middle of the foul lane and up to the hoop, but they always go to the middle. The Terps rarely shot outside, and won't unless a team goes into a zone against them, in which case they unleash their .564 shooting percentage. Their offense works because they're so quick that they can beat their men on the weave and go around them. 
**********

Best human sacrifice of the game goes to James Tillman whose defense on Adrian Dantley consisted mainly of how long he could go without fouling out. It took him but nine minutes in the second half to pick up the four fouls that put him out of the game at the 8:24 mark, but he had neutralized A.D., who failed to score even after Tillman had departed. The problem is that Digger has sensibly set up the offense not to look solely for Dantley, but the big forward's dominance of the first half had left the rest of the Irish cold. Notre Dame made only ten of their 31 shots in the second half, amassing only 23 points in the period. The Irish were missing the balanced scoring attack that has propelled them to their impressive recent victories. • til * 
The idea behind the stall is to control the game and look for the good
·······-­

... shot to increase your lead. Unfortunately, not even the good shots were ( _""'"·--· _ dropping for the Irish. Second-guessing of the decision has to take into account the fact that the Irish missed, in Digger's words, "a lot of easy 
• 
shots, real easy shots." Last week against UCLA it worked, this week it didn't. Digger also pointed out that Lefty Driesell would have gone to the 
~·~ 
l.•' 

fbur-comer offense anyway, "even when he was down a point." So Brad Davis led the Maryland fast brea". [Photo by Chris Smith] Phelps wanted to get control of the 1game when he had the chance. 





