Gains momentum 
Carter sweeps Pennsylvania 
PHILADELPHIA, AP -Jimmy Car­ter swept to victory in the Pennsyl­vania presidential primary election Tuesday night, stopping the De­mocrats who had tried to stop him, and gaining new momentum in his frontrunning campaign for White House nomination. 
The former Georgia governor told cheering sOJpporters the triumph means "We're going to win, win on the first ballot.'' 
Carter was gaining 35 percent of the popular vote in Pennsylvania's presidential preference election. Returns were tallied slowly in the separate competition for delegates. 
The early delegate count showed Carter supporters leading in that phase of the primary, too. But the ligures were inconclusive, and the outcome will not be clear for days. While Carter said he had swept 
by Gregg 8. Hangs Executive Editor 

Philosophically, student govern­ment officially agrees with Provost Fr. James Burtchaell's decision to eliminate all evening exa~s and move them to 8 a.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays, according to Pat Tack, academic commissioner. 

PAT TACK 

"A lot of people were upset because we (student government) haven't done anything about the order," Tal'k said, "so I wanted a rhance to explain student govern­ment's feclin~s on this subject." 
Tack felt that many people did not completely understand Burt­chaell's reasoning on the subject, one which has left many students and faculty members infuriated. Tack and Student Body President Mike Gassman talked to Burtchaell about the subject last week and found the provost thought that the academic day should end at 5 p.m. Burtchaell thought students were taking too many tests, quite a few of which were at night, resulting in students staying up too late. He aside every possible obstacle in his 
path, there remained the looming figure of Sen. Hubert H. Humph­rey, who skipped the primaries. 
Humphrey, in Washington, said "I want to see the Democratic party win. If Jimmy Carter can win, I'm not going to try to stop him at all." 
Carter beat Sen. Henry M. Jack­son of Washington, with Rep. Morris K. Udall of Arizona running third. The Georgian won over the opposition of organized labor and a lineup of Democratic leaders, who put together a stop-Carter move­ment in an acknowledged effort to slow him and keep the race open for a late Humphrey entry. 
That hasn't been foreclosed. But Carter will be more difficult to head off now. He has won seven of the tirst nine primaries, and he is the only candidate entered in all the 
also thought it would lead to a highly irregular metabolism; one which is geared to taking tests. 
Students who take evening ex­ams normally do not get out till 9 
p.m .. which means they are not able to start studying until the middle of the evening, Burtchaell said. With morning exams, stu­dents could start studying at 7, not 10, so they could have more time. 
He also believed, according to Tack, that students are so "hyper" about exams and studying that they won't get involved in extracurricu­lar activities. He reasoned that if the nights were open, the student would have more time and, hence, more involvement in extracurricu­lar activities. 
This action would lead to two developments in class scheduling. There would be no classes during the night or the 8TTIO period, even though classes have been listed in both, according to pre-registration listings. 
"Vve agree that the philosophy behind the order is right,'' Tack commented on behalf of the stu­dent government. "We didn't know what would be the best way to go about making this policy change, but we're a little disap­pointed that he (Burtchaell) didn't go through the Faculty Senate," she added. 
She also agreed that more stu­dents would get involved if they had the chance. "I think there is a swing upwards ·in student involve­ment," Tack commented, "and I think more students, if they had the night free. would get involved in extracurricular activities,'' she stated. 
Tack mentioned that a lot of people were opposed to the order, and that some students had even offered to start circulating petitons agains the decision. "We could have blown the issue out of proportion to the scale of the calendar issue, but since we agree with the reasoning, we're willing to try the philosophy and see how it works. If it doesn't, we'll try to change it," she stated. 
rest. 

President Ford, unopposed on the 
Republican ballot in Pennsylvania, 
said in Longview, Texas, he 
thought a Pennsylvania victory 
would make Carter the Democratic 
nominee. "If Carter wins in 
Pennsylvania, I don't see how the 
Democratic smoke-filled rooms in 
New York can take the nomination 
away from him," Ford _said. 
In the preference vote, Carter led 
virtually everywhere. He trailed 
Jackson only in Philadelphia, 
where union and organization sup­
port counted most. 
These were the figures with 36 per 
cent of the 9,638 precincts counted: 
Carter 170,868 or 36 per cent. 
Jackson 138,526 or 28 per cent. 
Udall 95,124 or 19 per cent. 
Alabama Gov. George C. Wallace 
48,674 or 10 per 
Acceptable grounds for trying to change the rule, according to Tack, would be if enough student reac­tion against the test times was shown by the students and faculty. 
"The order says that depart­mentals have to be given at 8 a.m., but this does not rule out the option of giving exams during class time," Tack mentioned. At the present time, most Arts and Letters courses hold their exams during classes while business and science courses generally hold their exami­nation periods in the evening. 
Tack said that it "is up to the students to let us know in the fall what they feel about the tests. If they have too many tests or are given too much material to be tested on within the alloted time source, then they should come to us,'' she commented. Tack also said she was going to talk to the colleges' respective deans about the subje.::t. 

Reagan comes to N.D. 
by Marjorie lrr Staff Reporter 
Governor Ronald Reagan, candidate for the Republican presidential nomination, who was last in South Bend starring in the film Knute Rockne All American, will return here on Monday, May 
3. The Reagan visit to Stepan Center, which is being organized by the Student Union Academic Commission in conjunction with the ND-SMC Students for Reagan, is one stop in a campaign swing through Indiana on the day before the state primary. 
At a press conference yesterday at the Morris Inn, leo 
Buchignani, chairman of St. joseph County Youth for Reagan, 
made the formal announcement and relayed a message from the 
candidate: 
"I am very glad to be coming to Notre Dame and I consider it a privilege to speak at one of the fine universities in the United · States," said Reagan. 
Three groups from the South Bend community announced their 
support for Reagan and the formation of formal committees to back 
him. 

Buchignani, a senior at Notre Dame, announced the formation of 
a Youth for Reagan steering committee. The committee is 
composed of students from Notre Dame, St. Mary's and Indiana 
University at South Bend. The representatives from those schools 
are, respectively, Kevin Richardson, Colleen Rothfuss and Ed 
Kintz. 
Granville Cleveland, assistant law librarian at Notre Dame, 
announced the need for "a president who will get the federal 
government off the backs of our nation's schools." Cleveland said 
that the newly formed Committee of Educators for Reagan believes 
that Reagan is the candidate who will do this. Along with 
Cleveland, Professors Edward Murphy and Charles Rice of the 
Notre Dame law School will head the committee. Rice noted that 
the committee also supports Reagan's policies on abortion, national 
security and fiscal affairs. 
Mr. leslie Doty spoke for the Committee of Small Businessmen 
for Reagan. "Reagan is the only candidate we are supporting. 
His policies on assistance to the small businessman are very sound 
from our standpoint," said Doty. 
Although an agenda has not yet been released, Buchignani said 
that Reagan would not spend much time in South Bend because of 
, the tight campaign schedule. There will be no official press conference. The event at Stepan "will probably begin around 2:10 p.m.," said Buchnignani. It is open to the public. 


Campaigning for St. Mary's general elections ended last night at midnight. Hoping that their efforts were not in vain, candidates urge students 


2 the observer Wednesday, Aprii2B, 1976 
~---News Briefs----~ 
r International iKissinger forced to cancel 
KmASHA. Zambia -Student demonstrations forced the cancella­tion yesterday of Henry A. Kissinger's planned visit to Ghana, American officials said. The secretary of state flew from Zambia to Zaire on his two-week goodwill mission to black Africa. 
I=============================National Quinlan still alive 
DENVILLE, N.J. -Nearly a month ago, the state Supreme Court ruled to allow Karen Anne Quinlan to die with dignity, but so far doctors haven't disconnected the respirator that keeps the comatose woman alive. A family spokesman said yesterday that the family won't tell anybody when the action is taken. 
Drug ruling 

WASHINGTON -The Supreme Court ruled yesterday that a defendant may be convicted of selling drugs illegally even if undercover agents supplied him with the contraband and bought jif from him. 
Patty offers to cooperate 
DETROIT -Newspaper heiress Patty Hearst first offered to <.:ooperate with prosecutors in her bank robbery case within days of her arrest but charges against her were not dropped because of an expected uproar from the public, lawyer F. Lee Bailey said. He predicts she will spend less than a year in jail. 
r;tock Exchange director resigns 
NEW YORK -James J. Meedham resigned suddenly as chairman of the New York Stock Exchange yesterday after an unusual early morning meeting of the exchange's board of governors. Needham 
ld a news conference he has been considering resigning for ~vera! months and made the decision over the weekend. He said was not asked to resign. 
qirth rates decline 
WASHINGTON -Birth control programs have spread across the >be and have contributed to a significant decline in birth rates in 
.11c past decade, a new government-financed study said yesterday. 
f:klrgaining continues 
CLEVELAND -While rubber workers and Firestone Tire and Rubber Co. bargained over life and health insurance in Cleveland yesterday1 URW President Peter Bommarito outlined in Geneva possible expansion of the week-old strike and boycott. 
.,__On Campus Today_. 
12:15 pm -­
3:25 pm -­
3:30 pm -­
3:30pm -­
7, 9 ~0 & -­12 P"l 
7:30pm-­
1B 15 pm ·· 
Imidnight -­
12:15 am-­

seminar, "immunotherapy of experimental cancer with BCG" by dr. herbert j. rapp, national cancer institute, national institutes of health, bethesda, maryland, galvin aud. 
lecture,"effect of humidity and fabric structure in aerosol filtration" by dr. teoman ariman, notre dame, room 269, chemical engineering buiilding. 
lecture, "application of numerical methods to physiological flows" by dr. thomas j. mueller, notre dame, room 303, engineering building. 
design of humanistic work series, "what can labor do?" by irving bluestone, vice president, united auto workers international and director, UAW general motors department, hayes-healy center auditorium. 
film, "young frankenstein" engineering auditorium, tickets: $1. 
lecture, "religion and politics in the american revolution" by nathan hatch, notre dame, cce. 
concert, dennis bamber saxophone concert, library aud. 
wsnd 640 am, a new release album will be featured in its entirety. 
wsnd 88.9 fm, nocturne night flight, the best in progressive rock, jazz and blues. tonight's host: tom pauli us. 
Wallace expects support from black Hoosier voters 
GARY* Ind. AP-A snub by Mayor Richard G. Hatcher didn't deter Alabama Gov. George C. Wallace from saying he expected 
·lack voter support in next Tues­day's Indiana presidential primary. 
Wallace, a Democratic candidate for the nomination, made his first campaign stop in this predominant­ly black northwest Indiana city yesterday morning. 
Wallace said he was disappoint­ed that Hatcher, who is black did not greet him; . 
Hatcher has said Wallace would be "the last" candidate that he would vote for. 
Responding to reporters' ques­tions, Wallace said he felt his health would not be an issue by the time of the California primary in June. 
Wallace was paralyzed by a would-be assassin's bullet in 1974. 
"I have no health problem," Wallace said. "I am paralyzed because I had a accident, but I'm not paralyzed in the head while a lot are." 
Wallace said he has the endorse­ment of all of Alabama's black leaders and he said he hoped for support from Hoosier blacks. 

Steven Soliah, Hearst's ex-lover, acquitted on bank robbery charge 
SACRAMENTO*Calif. AP -A federal court jury found Patricia Hearst's former lover, Steven Soli ah, innocent of bank robbery charges Tuesday. The verdict came only minutes after officials revealed evidence apparently con­tradicting his alibi witness. 

The jury of eight women and four men delillerated 61f2 hours before acquitting the 27 year-old house 
painter  of  participating  in  the  
$15,000  robbery  of  a  subu rban  
bank.  

Because a woman customer was killed during the robbery. convic­tion could have meant life in prison. 
Soliah, after ducking out of the courtroom and avoiding reporters, appeared several hours later at a hotel conference room and said: "It was the right thing. I didn't know what to expect, but I'm glad it the verdict happened." 
Soliah, who said in interviews before the trial that authorities were out to get anyone who harbored Miss Hearst, was asked whether he was bitter against the government. He answered only that he felt good about the jury and had a "certain sense of warmth" toward U. S. District Court Judge Philip Wilkins. 
Only minutes before the verdict, officials said that Emily Toback, A 
San Francisco masseuse who testified she was with Soliah the night before and the night after the robbery, may have been visiting Folson Prison the day of the holdup--April 21, 1975. 

Folsom prison is about 10 miles from the bank in suburban Carmi­chael, which was robbed shortly after 9 a.m. State officials said prison records showed a person named Emily Toback signed in at 9:30a.m.. and out at 2:30p.m. that day. 
Miss Toback had testified she went to a college physics class in San Francisco, 95 miles from the bank, the day of the robbery. She said Soliah was with her at her home the night before and the night after the robbery. but she couldn't remember if he had been there when she left that morning. 
Miss Toback. who was sitting in the front row when the verdicf was read. said, "that's erroneous" 
:~~~t. asked about the prison 
It could not be learned if prosecu­tors would seek perjury charges against her. The jury, which 
started deliberations Monday evening, was unaware of the revelations about Miss Toback. 
The prosecuto~s al~o would not 
say whether Sohah wtll be charged anew with harboring Miss Hearst before their arrest in San Francisco were dismissed when the bank robbery charge was filed. 
The newspaper heiress was con­victed last month of a bank robbery in San Francisco is awaiting sen­tencing. 
Prosecutors also did not say whether any other persons will be charged with the Carmichael rob­bery. One prosecutor said during the trial that six to eight bandits were involved, but Soliah was the 
only one charged. The others were never named. The prosecutors said Soliah did not fire the shotgun blast that killed Mrs. Myrna Opsahl. who was in the bank that Monday morning to deposit a church collection. 

r·~ 
------,.:

I'i"I  GOLF_ a~. N.TER ~  ~  
~~  
"NIGHT LIGHTErf,  
9 HOLE  o PAR 3 GOLP tOURSI!  

Drl..lng !Iango · 18 Hole Mlnloklre Open Down Til 10:00 PM 
LOCATED us 33 AT IRONWOOD ~ 
Call I 388-0033 I I 

_ _ I :Iiiii 'If N" Ans Coli 282-2366 ~ ~ c~?l.5 LINCOLN WAY EAST SO. liND iiJ11 
Dr. Hatch to deliver Ia~~.!~a!:r.:!=~~~~~ Bicentennial talk f. WHY PAY soc ON CAMPUS? l 
Dr. Nathan Hatch, assistant professor of history at the univer­
sity of Notre Dame. will discuss 
"Religion and Politics in the Arne­
rican Revolution" at 7:30 p.m.Wednesday, April 28 at Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Ed-
uc~~~niecture. which is free and open to the public, is one of a series of Bicentennial lectures and public 'ISsions called ''Continuing the ·can Revolution: The Roots of National Identity." Countering the' 'prominent myth that religion greatly influenced the 
politics of the founding fathers, Hatch will discuss how political turmoil altered religious belief. 
Under the direction of Dr. A. Edward Manier, Notre Dame ass­ociate professor 9i philosophy. the Bicentennial series is cosponsored by the University of Notre ~Dame, the Forever Learning Institute and the South Bend Panel of American Women. It is funded by matching 
g_rant from the Indiana Committee for the Humanities in cooperation with the National Endowment for the Humanities. 
(*The Observerl 
I, 
The St. Mary's Country Club is closing for spring inventory. Night Editor: Martha J. 
~~;.~nN(i~kt TE~·ii~r: Deborah 
~~Y~~~r~~a1t: Judy Byrnes, Mary Leigh Tunakan, Joseph
L. Bauer, Julie Pel Iettiere (in 
~i~~y~he sends her love, Jim Day Editor: Marianne Schulte Copy Reader: Cathy Nolan, Barb Breitenstein 
~~!~~::!~: d~~ssJ:i~hs 
~~:r!:~: Fre~~rrbS~11, Mary 
Tobin, Deb "Saved-the-day"
Dahrling, Martha Fanning Ad layout: W.S. Nichols, To111 Walrath, Sally Dentz 

l Night, Controller: Dave "al~l class' Rust I 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday ..,d \WekJy during the surtn1E!t" session, except during the exams ..,d vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Darre ..,d St. /1/liry's College. Subsaiptions may be purd'lased for $18 {$10 per semester) fro-n The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second Class ~X~Stage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

a 
, 

a 
' 

t f t
t 
t 
a 
' 

a
't L 
ALL CIGARETTES 38¢ PACK+ TAX  a ,  
CARTONS CARTONS  85 mm 100 mm  $3.49 plus tax $3.59 plus tax  a' t a  
WE ALSO CARRY THE FOLLOWING  '  
HARD TO FIND SMOKES .Gauloises caporal $.60 pack  tf  
La Corona Whiffs Balkan Sobraine  $1.15 pack $ .95 pack  f  
Getain Rl'ters  $ .60 pack  a  
'  
MAR MAlN PHAii\I\ACY  '  
4 2 6  N . MICHIGAN  : '  

ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES. 
Join a great officer team of engineers and architects who build for the Navy. Plan, design, construct and maintain shore-based facilities and undersea structures, worldwide. Exercise 
leadership and take on responsibilities young 
civilian engineers rarely have-while meeting 
requirements for registration as a PE. Excel­
lent Pav. housing and medical benefits. 
Contact: lt. Bill Hughes, Officer Programs, Bldg. 41 NAS Glenview, II. 60026 or call collect (312) 657-2169
THE ....A'IV'S 
I~Y I 
* 
CIVIL ENGINEERCORPS. 
::...~ _______________...._ ,.....--~, 
i Who loves ya I
I J I 
( N t t 'M 0 1 d' ) 2 3 4 3 1 8 4 
~ ~ _:.~~_ ~ --·~--.;_ j 
I b b ? 1
a y
1 • I 
-I The Observer is having a staff barbecue II next Saturday afternoon, 2:30 to 6 pm. I 
That same evening, at 9 pm,I we will hold our annual staff party. I 
Also, we are ordering staff T-Shirts. II T-Shirts will cost $2.
1 Use the clip-out on the right I to RSVP forTH~ BARBECUE or THE PARTY, II or to order T -Sh1rts. 
\· Just because we love ya. I 
~---------------' 


Six judges from the South Bend area finally additional cheerleaders. (Photo by Paul Cleven­settled the cheerleading dispute by selecting two ger) 
Finally! Cheerleaders selected 
by Jim Commyn Staff Reporter 

Chccrlcading captains Becky Bracken and Hank Carrico an­nounced the names of their four­teen member squad last night following the selection of the squad's final two members. 
Returning to the squad as se­niors along with Bracken and Carrico arc Candy O'Connor, J.J. DeFoor. Frank White and Jim Clouse. Current sophomore Pat Bergin will also be returning for his second year. This year's alternates, sophomores Patty Kulik and Doug Stevens, join the squad full-time. 
New females on the 1976-77 team include freshman Sue Olin, sophomore Chele Nashert, and St. Mary's junior Michelle Gilson. New members of the male squad arc present junior Jim Ingram and freshman Dave Schlaefcr. 
Next year's leprechaun is Joe Cosgrove, currently a freshman. 
The tryouts, which were attend­ed by nearly I00 on-lookers, pro­ceeded in much the same fashion as they had on April 9, according to Bracken and Carrico. "The same event categories that were used last time were used again," Brack­en stated. Each category was scored by a point system with further breakdown among the points stressed in each category. Candidates were given numbers and performed in a rotating order, allowing each candidate to be first and last in at least one event. Personal interviews with the judges were hl"ld yesterday afternoon. 
The categories of competition included chants. which stressed voice projection and spirit, and an "angel mount" involving the can­didates in pairs. The mount was demonstrated beforehand by 0'­Connor and Carrico. By far, the most "interesting" event was the men's dance to a soul-beat num­ber. The specific steps for the dance required of each contestant were explained by White. 
The females were required to dance to two songs, a boogie number "Let Go" by K.C. and the Sunshine Band, and a 1950's be-bop tune, "Rock Around the Clock." 
One near-injury resulted when once contestant toppled from a mount while in a splits position. "l was just stunned a little," she stated later. Other categories included gymnastics with the mini­tramp for the men, and two optional mounts or gymnastics selected by the individual candi­date himself. 
Personal interviews for each candidate were also held yesterday afternoon with the judges. 
The six judges for last night's tryouts were all from the South Bend area. They were Dick Hendricks, an administrator for the South Bend School Corporation; Jayne Burns, a dance instructress from South Bend; Ruth Warren, cheerleading moderator at Adams High School; Sue Sypotz, currently on leave from her post as cheer­leading moderator at Washington High School in South Bend; Dan Poe, gymnastics teacher from Adams High School; and Hazel Greenwood, a consultant for the state board of education regarding adult education programs. John Hcid, assistant director of Student Activities and cheerleading advi­sor, tabulated the ballots. 
Original selections for the squad were made April 9. A three-cut elimination process narrowed the field from nearly I 00 competitors to six males and six females. The leprechaun was also chosen from a group of ten males. 
A controversy resulted when some students discovered certain violations in the cheerleaders' con­stitution governing tryouts. A petition was circulated among sev­eral hundred students demanding that tryouts be reheld. 
After a lengthy meeting in the Black Cultural Arts Center Monday April 12, the issue was turned over to the Student Activities staff for review and a decision. Meetings were held with interested students. 
the cheerleaders and judges later 
f*~;;~~;;~~::l
1 of course! 1 
I I
I J
Name. 

1 I
I will come to the barbecue. I I will come to the evening party. I 
I JII want a T -Shirt. Size. 
\ Now ya know who loves ya. 
~---------------' 
·. :'( · e, ·c 

that week. Three options were considered by the staff and the panel's decision was released by Bro. John Benesh, director of Student Activities. 
The plan chosen called for an additional two cheerleaders during the 1976-77 season only. Substan­tial revisions of the cheerleaders' constitution will also take place before tryouts for the 1977-78 squad is selected next spring. The two additional squad members were to be selected from the eight females and five females who had made the first two cuts in the original tryouts, but were subse­quently not chosen for the squad. Five to seven judges, none to be associated with Notre Dame in any capacity, would make the selection of the last two members. 
Two other options were rejected on the grounds that time in this (continued on page 5) 
Wednesday, April 28, 1976 the observer Rector survey distributed this week to 2500 studen·ts 
by James Flahaven Staff Reporter 
A hall rector survey will be distributed to certain students ·sometime this week. According to Fr. Terry Lally, assistant vice president of student affairs, some 2500 students will be selected by their hall section leaders to fill out a survey on their respective hall rectors. 
The seven-page survey will ask students to comment on their rector's performance in the past year in a number of categories. These categories include rectors' ability to lead his staff, work with leaders of student government, enforce University rules and regu­lations, cooperate with fellow rec­tors and the office of Student Affairs, and the rector's concern for the individual needs of the students. 
Lally said the completed surveys would be collected from the section leaders by the hall presidents, who will then bring them to the Office of Student Affairs. "Each hall rector will then be met with individually to discuss the results of the survey," said Lally. He added, the Canadian government. Fr. Ray Holz from St. Thomas More Col­lege in Lexington, Kentucky will replace Prince next year. 
ln Sorin Hall, Fr. Thomas Stella, who is leaving to study in Berkeley, California, will be replaced as rector next year by Gregory Greene who has been doing work at St. Patrick's parish in South Bend. 
In the womens' dorms, Sr. Barbara Counts, S.C .. rector of Lyons, will be leaving to study in Colorado, and Walsh's rector, Sr. Susan Rosenbach has accepted a post as Assistant Director of C. C. E. in the Archdiocese of Chicago. Their replacements have not been announced. In addition, Sr. Cath­erine Madir., S.C., will be rector of Badin Hall when it becomes an undergraduate dorm next year. 
According to Lally, there would probably be more rector changes before next fall. 
NOW OPEN 
KELLEY'S SPORTLAND 

"The survey is intended to be used ~~~~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~ 
by the rector so he can evaluate his own performance." When asked if it would be 
possible for a hall rector to be fired if surveys showed a very negative response, Lally answered, "The survey results will be considered 
seriously." 
Lally stated that his biggest concern about the surveys is that the students will not take them seriously. Lally commented, "The 
students asked for this survey; we· 
are just trying to fill the students' needs." He added, "If this is not taken seriously, then the survey is just a worthless instrument." 
In other matters concerning hall rectors, Lally announced five hall rector changes. Father Bernard Prince, rector of Morrissey is leaving to study under a grant from 

o ~ 
,(\..' {j ~~'' 
~ --~ 
,(, ;(\ ,~ 

,(.-' b..,.' .. ' "' \.. r -c._ 
~ <"\V ;(~ 
r ~ b..,..V -._\..' 
0 l-~~ 
(J~ ... \..<:;)
s;(-' v 

measurments will be taken for 
CAPS and GOWNS 
Tuesday April 27 
and 
Wednesday April 28 
between 

9:00AM­4:30PM 


Woun·ded Knee situation unaltered 
WOUNDED KNEE, S. D. -An old Indian man thought about how his life had changed since militant braves occupied his historic village three years ago. 
The only difference, he decided, was 20 miles. Since the trading post burned down in the 71-day confrontation with federal marsh­als, he and his neighbors have had to drive 20 miles further for groceries. 
Otherwise, he said, things on the two million acre Pine Ridge Reser­vation are pretty much the same. 
The poverty, unemployment and dissatisfaction with the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) that followers of the American Indian Movement were protesting when they took over Wounded Knee still plague the 11.000 residents of the reserva­tion. 
There are signs of hope--a new school, a drop in joblessness--but many of the problems remain. • 
Occupation didn't help 
Many non-Indian residents felt the occupation was going to make an impression on Congress so it would do something for Indian people on the reservation. But that didn't happen. Instead of improv­ing, it just created a hardship," said the old man who did not want his name to be used. Albert Trimble, 47, a former BIA superin­tendent who recently took office as tribal chairman, said: "The major­ity of the people on the reservation aren't enjoying life. People have a right to live life free from threats, coercion and intimidation.'' 
The shooting deaths of two FBI agents last June, the bombing of Bureau offices at Pine Ridge iu October and reports of 276 
violent  crimes  since  July  have  
forced  the  BIA  to  spend  more  
money on law enforcement.  The  

budget has climbed from $400,000 in fiscal1973 to $900,000 this year. 
''The violence brought an aware­ness of the need for more law enforcement, but I don't think law enforcement is the only answer," said Frank Lawrence of the United Sioux Tribes, a business and political organization of tribal chairmen. 
"Just the fact that the FBI and federal marshals were in here created quite a few problems for communities." 
Sen. James Abourezk, D-S. D., says Indians don't have enough votes to win any significant chan­ges through Congress. 
''The only effect of the occupation that I can see on Congress is a vague awareness that something is wrong in Indian country,'' he said. 
U. S. Rep. James Abdnor, whose district covers the reservation in southwestern South Dakota, said: ''The conditions of the Indian people remain relatively the same as before the occupation." 
On the positive side,the BTAsays complaints against the police de­partment have dropped from five a week in July to two or three a· month. There is a new school at Wanblee, and new homes. 
There are three new, although­small, industries, including an. electronic components plant which employs 18 persons at Manderson. 
Unemployment still high 

The reservation's unemployment rate has dropped from 53 per cent in 1971 to 35 per cent. The state average is 5 per cent. 
A total of $33 million in federal funds goes into Pine Ridge each year, but much of it is lost in bureaucratic red tape. About $12 million this year is funneled through the BIA, including $4 million for education. 
The BIA budget increased $3 million in the past three years, but the total federal funding for the Oglala Sioux reservation has re­mained about the same. 
''There really emerge two diame­trically opposed political philoso­phies," said Bill Cuny, a teacher and Pine Ridge businessman. "One says that by virtue of the treaties, the government owes us a living...on the other side of the spectrum are people who say I want to make it on my own. A lot of the violence is family squabbles, blown out of proportion," he said. 
Drinking problems 
The government is beginning to spread out new homes being built on the reservation after an Interior Department report indicated that cluster-type housing led to more 

City workers' strike saves more for San Francisco than pay cuts 
SAN FRANCISCO AP A four-week strike has crippled pub­lic transportation and dirtied Gol­den Gate Park. But it has saved the city more money than the planned pay cuts which precipitated it, the city's controller says. 
Controller John Farrell said Tuesday the strike has brought a net savings of nearly $2 million more than the planned $5.7 million pay cut for about 1,800 laborers, carpenters, plumbers and street­sweepers. 
The city employes struck March 31 after the Board of Supervisors approved pay cuts of several hun­dred to several thousand dollars a year for each worker. Carpenters' salaries, for example, were cut from $21,800 to $17,240, · some streetsweepers from $17,300 to · 
$12,000. 
The supervisors' action was based on a referendum last fall in which voters repealed the lucrative city employes' pay formula. 
Now four weeks later, "we have a pretty good picture as far as the costs," Controller John Farrell said. "We're showing a surplus." 
One side of the ledger shows a revenue loss of about $504,000, including $96,000 from parking tickets, $144,000 from parking meters, $67,000 in golf course fees and $100,000 in zoo admissions and concessions. In addition, there is about $320,000 in police overtime. 
But those costs are outweighted by savings of almost $8 million in wages and salaries normally paid to trade union members and drivers of the Municipal Railway's buses, cable cars and trollevs. 
"The net savings -is particularly good in the Muni where there has been a $156,000-a-day savings and a $65,000 daily revenue loss from the fare boxes," Farrell said. 
The Muni drivers, not on strike, 
are  reported  reconsidering  their  
refusal to cross picket lines.  They  
have lost about $1.100 each.  

At the same time, there has been great loss and inconvenience to tqe Muni's 250,000 regular daily cus­tomers-and to others in the city. 
Downtown merchants report their average monthly business of about $42 million down 10 to 25 per cent. School officials say high absenteeism has cost them be­tween $40,000 and $111,000 in state aid. 
There are also signs of lack of maintenance personnel-such as a huge water main rupture in Golden Gate Park which created a 40-foot geyser Tuesday. Private repair contractors were called in. 
Meanwhile, talks were held be­tween strike leaders and the city negotiator. Executive Secretary John Crowley of the Central Labor Council said AFL-CIO president George Meany would send a repre­sentative here. 

''Every segment of the Javor movement in San Francisco is 
working  for an  end  to  this,"  
Crowley  said.  "But  the  real  
problem  is  in  City  Hall.  Those  

bums won't even talk to us." 
Farley, Sarin hold square dance 
The Foster Grandchild program in conjunction with the Notre Dame Social Commission and Sorin and Farley halls will sponsor a square dance behind the bookstore on Friday, April 30 from 9-1 p.m. 
The dance will be held to raise money for a trip to White Sox park in Chicago on Saturday, May 1. Both students and senior citizens from the nursing homes will see the White Sox challenge the Detroit Tigers. 
There is no admission fee for the dance but donation bins will be available for anyone wishing to contribute. Donations will also be used to purchase such items as foam rubber cushions, stockings, socks and handkerchiefs, which will be distributed among one of the 10 area nursing homes. 
drinking and fighting among neighbors. 
''A lot of children are growing up in homes where one or both parents drink. They think drinking is an adult thing to do,'' said acting Judge Delores Swift Bird. She attributed most of the disorderly conduct cases she handles to drinking. 
Former tribal chairman Richard Wilson, who lost to Trimble in a January election, credits his ad­ministration with 700 new homes, an increase in the tribe's land base through federal agreements and the three new industries. 
"I can't see to this day what Wounded Knee did for Indian people,'' he said. During the 1973 siege, the American Indian Move­ment (AIM) called for Wilson's removal, saying he ran a govern­ment of corruption of terrorism. 
Tribal residents are reluctant to talk about politics because they don't want to be accused of taking sides. Much of the violence since the 1973 occupation has been associated with feuds between the pro-AIM and the pro-Wilson fac­tions. 
Trimble hopes to expand econo­mic development. He says too much money ends up in small towns just outside the reservation. 
''Almost all of the development that has been planned has centered around Pine Ridge," he said. "Seventy-five to 80 per cent of the people in the far-flung districts haven't benefited much." 

LLJ NO
I 
...._ 
GODSPELL 
April 23,24,29,30, May 1 at 8 :oo 
P.M. 
Stepan Center (Notre Dame)
SMC 
$2.50 General Admission 
$2.00 Students, Faculty & Staff 
For Reservations Call 284-4176 
THEATRE 
1975-1976 Our 10th Joint Season 
(Show Nights Call 283-7559) 
Rockwell ELECTRONIC® 
CALCULATOR 8R 
bymailfor$5.95 
when you buy one any size Liquid Prell® or Prell Concentrate@ 
See our display for complete details and required certificate. Mail in by July 17, 1976 
NOTRE DAME 
Tom McMahon General Agent 

Manny Avila Agent 
Karen Wentland Agent 
BOO TORE 
'Teara tier vear Isemester·afte; semester. the CollegeMaster from Fidelity 
Union Life has been the most accepted. nH,st popular plan on campuses all mer America. 
Find out win. 
('all the Fidelity Union ('ollt.'gcMash.'r Field Associate 
111 your area: 
915 E. Cedar South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 


To succeed Quackenbush Wednesday, April 28, 1976 the observer 
Montgomery elected new HPC Coordinator 
by Matt Kane In addition, the Council, in its Staff Reporter final meeting of the semester, heard a number of reports and The Hall Presidents Council announcements, including Student (HPC) last night elected Keefe Union Director Ken Ricci's report Montgomery as new Executive on Student Union refrigerator ren­Coordinator. He succeeds Bob tals, and the HPC special commit­Quakenbush. tee to investigate 8 a.m. depart­

LONDON Paul McCartney and 
the Wings group he formed after 
the Beatles broke up begin their 
ddaycd tour of the United States 
on May 3. and McCartney won't be 
surprised if the audiences include 
.John Lennon. George Harrison and 
Ringo Starr. 
And maybe the four Bcatles will 
even come around to performing 
together again. a spokesman for 
McCartney said yesterday. 
"Ifthe former Bea ties do meet up 
with one another again, it would be no surprise. They tend to turn up at one another's concerts," the spokc~man said. "Paul would he . delighted to sec them. They are all friends despite their old disputes." 
McGartney was not available for 
comment. hut the spokesman indi­
cated if the Bcatles do meet again 
during the Wing's tour, it's a safe 
Jm·diction they will discuss the 
possibility of a reunion on stage. 
"Paul McCartney's answer to the 
question: 'Will there be a Beatles' 
reunion on stage?' is a definite 
Directors of the University of Notre Dame Alumni Association will be joined by more than 60 Alumni Senators representing major clubs across the nation at the annual spring meeting on the campus April 28-May 1. The pre­sentation of the Rev. Edward Frederick Sorin Award during the Friday night banquet will be a highlight of the weekend session. 
The award honors the founder and tirst president of the University and is presented annually to a member of the association who has served the University and his community in an exceptional man­ncr. 
Previous recipients have inclu­ded Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C'.S.C.. Notre Dame president; James Armstrong, first secretary of the Alumni Association; D.r. Thomas P. Carney, trustee of the University and founder of the Alumni Senate; Bernard J. Voll, South Bend industrialist; Archbis­hop Paul J. Hallinan of Atlanta, and Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, 
C.S.C.,  former  president  of  the  
University.  
The  award  was  presented  last  

year to Arthur J. Haley, director of maybe," the spokesman said. 
In New York, however. McCart­ney's American lawyer and fat­her-in-law, Lee Eastman. caution­ed Bcatles fans against counting too heavily on seeing the four play together again. 
"At this point there is absolutely no plan of any kind to get together," he said. "That may vary tomorrow, but at this moment there is no decision by any of the four to get together.·· 
McCartney and the other former Beatles have been offered millions of dollars, primarily for television, radio and recording rights, to play together on stage again, even for a single evening. The Beatles broke up in 1972. 
McCartney has emphasized al­though he is interested, music, not money, is what counts with him. He has also said he is very happy with Wings, whose members in­clude his American wife Linda Eastman. The Wings' tour opens May 3 in Fort Worth, Tex. 
Alumni to hold spring meeting 
public relations at Notre Dame noon Saturday in the Center for before his retirement in 1970. Continuing Education. Other Special guests at the dinner speakers will include Dr. Carney at Friday will be University officers, the Friday banquet; Rev. James T., trustees and deans of the Notre Burtchaell, C.S.C., provost, at the Dame colleges and schools. John opening luncheon; Rev. Edmund P. 
A. O'Brien of Atlanta, president of Joyce, C.S.C., and Dan Devine, the 55,000 member association, football coach. Many of the visiting will make the formal presentation. alumni will be guests of students in The Notre Dame Glee Club will residence halls and dining facilities 
provide musical accompaniment. Fr. Heshurgh will address the 
,, 


visitors during a closing session at 
<:ORKY SIEGEL BLACKSTONE BliCK HORN tROSSHOW 
SMCstudent 
~\) MUSJ<: 
attack victim 
1' Sat. May 8 
A St. Mary's student was report­
~S Ila.m. to dusk
edly accosted at about 11 :40 p.m. Monday as she was walking around 
~"Y 8 BANDS <:ONCESSIONS 2 STA<;Es
the north end of O'Shaughnessy 
·~ BEER (W/I.D.~ ON 200 AtRES
Hall. According to information rel­
2 of Buduman 
eased yesterday, the woman re­ported that she was grabbed ar­ound the chest by a man, but managed to struggle free and run, tearing hersweatshirtin the process. She was uninjured and told Notre Dame Security the man was a 
Tickets 3.50 Advance-4.00 Day of Available thru Boogie Record·s. Record Joint, Vegetable Buddies, Suspended Chord
caucasian 5'9", about 20 with a pockmarked face and wearing dark 

R SHOW 
clothing. 
mental exams. HPC President James P. Russel allowed Quackenbush to nominate Montgomery for him. Quakenbush said Montgomery was "one of the best organizers" he knows. Quackenbush then listed some of Montgomery's qualifications. "He was an An Tostal day chairman and north quad campaign manager for Mike Gassman. In addition, he is the new president of Stanford Hall," Quackenbush not­ed. Montgomery did not feel being both a hall president and an HPC executive coordinator was too bur­densome. "I wouldn't have taken the job (executive coordinator) if I thought I couldn't l:;tndle it," Montgomery stated. "I worked in both hall government and with An Tostal. I am experienced enough to know what to -expect.'' Montgomery was one of only two applicants for executive coordina­tor. The other applicant was Kevin Dickerson. 
More money in long run 
Ken Ricci told the HPC that by buying their own refrigerators for rental to students, Student Union will make more money in the long run, despite an initial debt of $9,000. 
Student Union will buy around 300 refrigerators for $30,000 from U-Line Corp. At the same rental rate as last year, Student Union will make $21,000 next fall. "So after the first year, we will clear a profit," Ricci explained. 
Ricci said Student Union will make approximately $16,000 after expenses after the first two years, unless rates are lowered. 
The refrigerators will all be one size, 3.5 cubic feet or "enough to hold four cases of beer," Ricci joked . 
Cheer1eadersnamed 
(continued from page 3) 
semester was running short to 
rchold the tryouts in their entirety, 
and that the issue must be dealt 
with immediately rather than sim­
ply offer major changes in the 
selection process for future years. 
After announcing the names of 
the entire squad, Carrico continued 
by announcing the group's first 
practice of the season, this after­
noon at 4:30 in the ACC pit. "We 
were the number-two squad in the 
country this year," Carrico said, 
"and we have to start working hard 
right away in order to gain the 
number-one position next year." 
The special committee to inves­tigate 8 a.m. departmental exams in place of evening exams support­ed the change. The committee agreed with Fr. Burtchaell's reason for the policy change. They believe this was a first step in relieving academic pressures and encourag­ing outside activities. 
Pat Tack, chairperson of the Academic Commission, assisted the committee with the report. She thanked the HPC for coming to her first before acting on their own. 
Tack said she believes the philo­sophy behind the new policy is correct. She also saw the possibili­ty that the reaction to the Student Government stand will be negative. 
"Some people will say we backed down," Tack predicated. "We could've blown it all out of propor­tion with surveys and petitions, but we waited and found out why." 
Tack urged HPC members and students to complain to the Aca­demic Commission if teachers are giving too many tests or extend exam periods. 
OTHER BUSINESS: Mike Clan­cy, new sophomore class president, asked hall presidents to select a sophomore-to-be from their hall to serve on the Sophomore Advisory Council. Dave Walters asked presidents to help inform students about the benefit squad dance for local nursing homes. 
Rick Littlefied and Barb Fry, co-ex commissioners, were seeking HPC opinion on allowing St. Mary's hall presidents to attend meetings and organize activites between Notre Dame and St. Mary's. The HPC was receptive to the idea, except that it will not give St. Mary's hall presidents voting priveleges. HPC financial and review reports will either be mailed to the HPC members over the summer or will be given to them next fall. 
HPC also formally announced last fall's intcrhall all-star football teams including bothnorth;·nd~outh quad men's and women's teams. Awards wtll be gtvcn to eacn member on Thursday April 28, at 7 
p.m. in first floor lounge of LaFortune. 
an answer to yourM~~~ summer storage problem! 
SELF-LOCK 
STORAGE BIG OR SMALL store your: 
~~ TV"
~ stereos.... s ..... 
~bikes•....books . .... clothing..... : furniture :
• 

. D• 
oom~~~m~s: 


12.+1-\ Horr•Son ""'· : 
..•••••••••.••••~J~ll~~~l..lL~~.~-~~~~~.; 
BLACKHAWK 
LINE OF KITES 

& General Store 113 West Monroe St. South Bend 


*~d.Q!?.~~~rver

Founded November 3. 1966 The Obser\'er ~~ publ"h"d by studt•nts ot the Un1vers1ty of NotrP Dilmt> dnd EDITORIAL BOARD <t M 'r\ , Collpof> It does not necessarily reflt>ct tht> poiiCit>S of e1tht>r 
-> a " Thom,h 0 Nt>d ( d1tor-rn-Ch1t>l
111 ,tltut 1011 Tht> nPw~ 1s reported as anurdtt>ly and ob1ect1vely as poss1ble D.m S,HH ht>t 
Mdndglng Ed1tor

( d 1tor1dl' reprt>,t>nt the opm1on or a ma1orrtv ot the F:d1torral Board C fl 
f \t'tUtiVP Ed1tor

Ct>rnnwntilriP' <~re the VI(>V.S of md1v1dudl Pd1tors Op1n1on~. cdrtoons and \:rr~g h;ng' 
I xt'( ut 1ve Ed1tor

rq~ullr , olunm' PxprPs~ thP VIPWS ot thPrr author; Column ~pdCP ~~ "d Hur " ' h d I tt p c urdgt>d to r,lt dnl1m ( d1torrdl (-d1tor 
,1, dd.tblt• to dll nwmbt>r~ ot t e community. an e _t>r~ ilrP n ° flub M.tdt>r 
I \t'CutlvP New~ Ed1tor

promott· thP trt>!' PXprPSSIOn of varying opinions on cdmpus .'IAdurt•t>n I I\ nn 
C,Hnpu'> Fd1tor 11,1,.rt 1Hogdn St Mdry ·' Fd1tor Don Rt>mwr Copy Ed1tor 
'''"' 2Kl Khhl 

Bu>ln!'>~ 2/ll-7471 
l1m 0 Rt>dt>\ f t>dturt>' Ed1tor ~ rt>d Ht>rb't Sporh F d1tor Tom ,'<1odgl1n M.tr\ I gdn Contrrbutlng E:d1tor 
Wednesday, April 28, 1976 

P.O. Box Q 
DOONESBURY 
SJIESFCR. 19/VIN6 7HeM STANOON AMIRSHA~! MIG/lANT~ ~y 600/J ~I?S? V/8/iS 7J.I£&3! 
I 
by Garry Trudeau 
UM.. 70 813 HON&ST I'M N<JT SUR£, JIM. RJR 50MG REASON, 
NO CW& /Al.l(~.r.mtJTJ/ 
ITMIKJIIN 7HG 
OFF/C/3••" 
Cheerleading Bitch 
Dear Editor: 
Speaking out for the concerned 
students who in a letter of April 23, 
were accused of discrediting the 
Notre Dame cheerleading squad, I 
feel the time has also come to lay a 
few more facts on the table, with 
hope this time to shed more light 
on the truth. 
First to clarify a somewhat offensive point: The small group of people first referred to, and I quote, "a few students, who have been referred to in recent articles as the 'student body"'. were in fact students on campus, thus they do constitute part of the student body, be it largely or minutely. 
Second, as to the groping for 
loopholes, in the first-ever constitu­
tion, the loopholes (i.e., judge 
violations, point system violations, 
and tabulation violations) were 
apparently visible; therefore, there 
was no need to grope. 
Thirdly, as for the past tryout proc;edures that were held entirely behind closed doors without a point-merit system or outside judges and yet were never ques­tioned, only serves to exemplify that the student body in the past could be labeled passive and this is not by any means a fault of ours. 
Your constitution certainly we'll agree, provided guidelines, but they were not followed. We strong­ly wish to disagree with you on the statement that the fairness of this year's tryouts their constitutional­ity is not the real question involved for it is! 
Fourthly, we. too, feel that the administration pushed toward ap­peasement. The petition which was sig;.ed by over 300 students called for the denouncement of the entire proceedings and new elections. Our feelings have further been intensified when we recently found out that two of the people who wrote · the Fairness vs. Appease­ment letter (April 23) will once again on Tuesday night tabulate the votes -now is that fairness?? 
Finally, a point must be made which deals with your referral to us as a small minority pressure group. Since we are in fact laying the facts on the table there are only about ISO blacks on campus, who I am sure you were referring to; yet approximately 400 people signed the petition. There were no guns held to force signatures, the facts were merely told. The cheerleaders are representative of all students, that includes minority groups as well. You sacrificed your own integrity and we intend to uphold our rights as students! 
Names withheld on request 
Supplemental Bitch 
Dear Editor: 
Congratulations on the idea of a supplement about the publications on campus. Perhaps that this will instill an interest in more students to join these organizations. The idea was great, however I was disappointed when I read the articles. First of all, I feel that you have slighted a number of people. Instead of applauding the efforts of all who have put in countless hours this year to bring these publica­tions to the students, your articles spoke of next year's plans. You timing was wrong; such stories should appear in the Observer at the start of next semester. 
Secondly, there are four people who especially deserve recognition for the work they have done this year. Yet, three of them were never mentioned, while the fourth re­ceived one line. Since you failed to acknowledge their work, on behalf of all the students I would like to thank the editors-in-chief for the work they have done: Dana Nahlen (Dome), Sally Stanton (Scholastic), Terry Keeney (Observer), and Gary Zebrun (Juggler). 
Thirdly, I feel that you owe Dana Nahlen and the whole Dome staff an apology. I do not know where you came up with the simulation of the 1976 cover, but you are grossly inaccurate. The cover of the book is supposed to be a secret; only the editorial board is to know what it is. I hope that our staff will under­stand that your simulation is not accurate and that the cover will not be known until the book arrives. 
Finally, I want to thank all those 

students who helped out on public­ations this year and I wish the best of luck to those involved next year. Jack Culligan Business Manager Dome '76 
Rock Bitch 

Dear Editor: 
Probably this letter will serve no purpose other than to lessen my anger concerning the poor handling (I think) of a recent situation by Notre Dame authorities. 
On Saturday night I and a number of my friends were playing basketball at the Rockne courts. In the course of the game, one of the players received, what appeared to be a serious head injury. In time, Security and Rockne personnel showed up on the basketball courts, where the injured player was being held in pain. The player was then taken down to the foyer of the Rockne building, and then I didn't believe what happened next. The player sat down (by that little desk near the entrance) and had to wait for a "questionnaire" to be brought and filled out before he was taken to the St. Joseph Emergency Room. 
Now I understand that a record must be kept about such accidents. But I fail to believe that it is necessary to detain what appears to be a seriously injured person from medical attention in order that he fill out a form. Can't it wait to be done after he has received the much-needed medical attention? If it is all that is necessary (as it evidently is) can't it be done on the way to the Emergency Room? 
I was quite upset at the time my injured friend was being ques­tioned. But I didn't want to "make waves" because the situation didn't lend itself to an argument. I would hate to see a similar situa­tion handled this way in the future. I doubt my gripe will receive much attention from the proper Univer­sity authorities, but at least the Notre Dame Community is now aware of how poorly such situations are handled. 
D.A. Narducci 


seriously folks Tape-Recorded Announcements 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii art buc h wa I d 
WASHINGTON--It's surprising how much you can learn from the Japanese. A recent item in the Wall Street Journal reveals that the secretary general of Japan's ruling party, Yasuhiro Nakasone, tape-recorded a denial of his involvement with the Lockheed scandal. By calling a number, the dialer would hear Nakasone's cheerful voice saying, "Hello, everybody. This is Yasuhiro Nakasone. I'm sticking to my job, in good spirits managing to hold out despite the enormous amount of work I have to do every day. I should like to repeat I am totally uninvolved in the Lock~e~d scandal, and I have never received any hush money. I swear this m the name of heaven and earth." 
This is certainly an idea whose time has come, and we think American politicians and political figures should take it up. Here are some suggestions. 
"Hi, I'm Bo Callaway, and I want you all to know what a raw deal I got from the Republican National Committee because of the unfair allegations concerning my ski resort, crested Butte, in the most beautiful part of Colorado. When I was secretary of the Army, I made the mistake of having a meeting in my office with the deputy secretary of agriculture, but I swear the ski resort was hardly mentioned in the conversation. I want to say that I have never mixed my public life with my interest in my ski resort which, thanks to the wisdom of the park department, will soon have the finest skiing facilities in the United States. For reservations call this toll-free number... " 
"Hello, everybody. This is Henry Kissinger. I am in good spirits managing to hold out despite enormous amounts of work.. . 
Don't believe all those dirty rumors that John Connally IS takmg my place. The President said I could stay on as secretary of state as long as I want to, and Rogers Morton can go fly a kite. I would _also like to say that I never said to anyone that we're No.2 to the Soviets. 
I categorically deny anything that I have been quoted as saying in the past five years. Everything is going very well in our foreign relations, and I'm happy to say that if I go down in history as the best secretary of state the United States ever had, it's only because I planned it that way. Thank you for calling. If you have anything to say my secretary is listening on the other line.·· 
"I did it my way .... This is Frank Sinatra, 01' Blue Eyes himself. I just want to say that all this (blip) about me and the Mafia is a bunch of (blip). I have a lot of friends, and I don't ask them what they do for a living. All I'm trying to do is make people happy. The (blips) in the press and the (blips) in the Justice Department are out to get me because I say what is on my mind. My only answer to them is (blip) 'em." 
"Hi, I'm David Eisenhower, and I'd just like to say I never said my father-in-law was bonkers as purported in the Woodward-Bern­stein book. He also never talked to paintings in the White House. Some of the pictures may have talked to him, but not once, as far as I know, did he answer back. Dad was in control to the very end, and the only time I saw him depressed was when, during the House impeachment hearings, Gen. AI Haig told him he couldn't go to China. 
"Hello, I'm Mayor Beame. The following peole will be laid off this morning. Two thousand policemen, 2,000 firemen, 2,000 garbage men, 3,000 teachers and all hospital employees except for two surgeons and one parking attendant. Now for the bad news. Because offurther reductions in the budget, the telephone company is cutting off this recorded announcement and .... CUT" 
"My fellow Americans, this is the first time I have been able to address you from San Clemente. I would like to play for you at this time the tape that proves that I was innocent of any wrongdoing. Although it might sound a little garbled, I am sure if you listen closely you will see that I had nothing to do with the Watergate coverup. When you hear a dial tone, you will know the tape has started. It will play for 18 Y2 minutes. When you hear the second dial tone, you will know the tape has reached the end. Do not hang up if you hear nothing. I assure you the tape will be running." 
possible to dig down deep and discover starts and take him home to soften the blow Fr. Bill Toohey · something precious, like rare minerals of any cultural shock. Together, they will  receives. "It doesn't really bother me," the affable frosh declares. Indeed, lack of  
buried far below the surface of hte earth. go shopping, become acquainted with the You can find something in those dark area, and find housing accomodations, ifTHE recesses and bring it back, so that you have necessary. By the time the semester  reknown would appear to be the least of their difficulties. Problems concerning money loom much  
more than you did when you began." starts, the student will hopefully feel less On her Catholic Faith: "My faith is a like a stranger in a strange land, andOTHER personal one that is far from passive. I somewhat comfortable in the new envir­ larger. So large, in fact, that participants in non-varsity athletics are required to pay dues. Bernardin, a senior civil engineering  
believe in God. But my God is one of love. onment.  major from Evansville, is a soccer player.  
mercy, caring, concern, compassion. a The student-family relationship varies sense of humor and penchant for change. after the semester starts. Some students,KENNEDY The only kind of supreme being that makes often graduates, find the transition to their  His main complaint is that the atheltic department subsidy ("something like nine hundred dollars,'' as he puts it), is just not  
any sense to me is the one who is a partner. new life easy, and seldom see their hosts.  enough. "We play fifteen games in the fall  
As far as I can tell. Jane Kennedy hasn't Although prayer is important to me, I Others, however, encounter various prob­ and six in the spring," he relates. "The  
been invited to commencement this year. don't believe that I can sit back and let Him lems, for which they seek the help of their  money they give us hardly covers referee  
She should be. We should give her an do everything for me. I must do my part. families.  charges.  
honorary degree; let her address the God and I arc in prison together." Most come here with a good working 
graduates. She gets out of prison just in On Criminal Justice: "Women who knowledge of English, but not necessarily 
time, too. t·ome to prison arc angry. They are mostly of American customs. The students must  
.lane gets paroled from Alderson Prison angry because they know they aren't the learn such things as how to work a  
on Mav 6th. She is the nurse who was problem. If one wishes to discuss the · checking account with dollars and cents.  
tried, .t.:nnvkted and sentenced to three problem one should not waste time with a The wives might need help when first  
yeat·~ in a federal pcnctentiary for burning straw-women. One should study authority. encountering the supermarket, or arrang­ 
draft records during the Vietnam war. Although authority still exists. over the ing doctor's appointments in case of  
Ms. Kennedy's crime was that she past IS years the entire justice system from pregnancy. When these or other compli­ 
perceived the inimorality of the war ( long attorney general to policeman has lost cations arise, the families are always 
before most of us). and at age 44 she crcdibilitv. Who believes these authoritv available to lend their assistance.  
derided to place her career and even her figures care for the common good? And The major stumbling block for the  
freedom on the line by doing something the poor (for they arc the prisoners) know, internationals often seems to be the  
about it. M~gr. .John Egan. of Notre ~o much dearly after Watergate, that homesick·ness or loneliness in the new  
l><tllll', ~aid it well. when at a rally criminal laws prohibit only them, not the environment. In such cases, the students  
'>llpporting .lane Kennedy he spoke thcs~ rich or pm\crful. Excluded from all hut the will often have anopendoor to the family's 
wonb: "The night is lll'av~· because men lowest kvcls of the economic system, they house, free to join the family for dinner at  
and women of conscience and intHK'encc are puni!>hed when they try to 'survive." . home or in restaurants, or for birthdays or  
arc l'<tgnl in jail' and prisons. or exiled I have been writing to an inmate who is a other holidays. For some, the personal 
hl't'l' ;~nd aero~~ the world. Victims of an pri~oncr with .lane Kennedy; and recently relationships form very closely, so the  As a result, a good deal of ineome must  
l'vil 'Y~tcm which eric~ to the heavens for ~he sent along a testimonial Ms. Kennedy family becomes much more real that  be realized in some other manner.  
\Tngl·anrl' and redress. they arc tormented had given. I was much impressed by it; surrogate: a place the student can find a  Bernardin cites player dues and extracur­ 
;~nd lorgotten. ·· and feel that it might contain some of the confidant or an understanding ear in a time  ricular fund-raising efforts such as hot dog  
.l;lltl' ha~n't been completely forgotten, thoughts she would like to share with Notre of personal crisis.  stands on home football weekends as  
llll\\l'H'r. The other daY it was announl·cd Dame graduates if she were given the Many of the hosts have the opportunity  alternative sources of financial assistance.  
that ~he ahd been ;tamed an ofticial chance: to step into some big moments in the "My God is a God of Hope. Because we students' lives. At graduation time, the arc created by God, part of us is divine. families are there as the students receive That part always stretches toward the their diplomas. So far. several marriages good. That is why it is not up to God to have been performed over the years, with a create the world in which we live; it is up to couple more to come in June, at which the us. For our lifetime, that part of the world host father will give away the bride. In we can touch with linger or mind is ours. either case, the family may be on hand to lio we must create, mold, instruct--we must help set up housekeeping afterwards. ptt'lt towards a better world. Our hope is Recently, the students put on the that we kmm the dirc<:tion: the God of International Festival, as something of a lwpe offers to guide us, especially in our gift for their families and the general time of turmoil and tragedy." community. The show featured many of the native garbs of the students, plus dancing, folksong, and various other cultural exhibitions. Following the pre­sentation, the social committee of the hostTim O'Reiley families organized more music and danc­ing, and prepared a wide variety of refreshments for this party.THE Sixty families have thus far volunteered  But he refuses to show any signs of bitterness, adding, "It's really not at all that bad. Heck, if you do a good job you make a couple hundred bags a weekend. ''A couple of hundred bucks'' :loesn't go real far, though, as the club sports' travel routines clearly illustrate. Take Romanelli and his lacrosse teammates, for example. "Our transportation consists pretty much of carpools," says John. "Usually, if we can, we try to return the same day, but if we do stay it's always in the other school's dorms," he concludes, citing a common practice of all non-varsity athletes which does a great deal more for fraternity than for backs. Bingle, a hard-working junior American Studies major, is another lacrosse player, and his assessment of club sports is typically optimistic. A tennis standout at St. Francis High School in Toledo, he took  
their services to the program, some sponsoring as many as five students at oneOTHER time. Due to moving and other causes,  up lacrosse nearly three years ago "to stay in shape and meet some new people." Now he's an incurable addict. "It's the  
new hosts must be found just to keep this number steady. Not only the International Office, but also a Host organization itself,STUDENT continually searches for new families  sort of game that you really get attached to," he enthusiastically explains. "In fact, it's become a sort of personal challenge for me, and for quite a few others, it appears,  
through parishes, social contacts, or direct For the international students of Notre pamphlet distribution to prospective volun­Dame, in loco parentis has acquired an teers. entirely different meaning than just the All parties concerned have expressed rules governing university life. For them, great enthusiasm for the host families, it can mean someone to greet them when thus far. Personality conflicts have been they first arrive in America or trips about alleviated to everyone's satisfaction. The the country or a family dinner during the host families go far to make Notre Dame  for despite the numerous pratfalls more 'than fifty Notre Dame students play ~lacrosse. "About half play varsity, the other JV," says Bingle. "They're all good athletes, though few have much lacrosse experience," he adds, pointing out per­haps the biggest problem of all. "The kids, who have played before are in the  
<.:andidate for the Nobel Peace Prize. The holidays. The Host Families provide this, and America a little less frightening and  minority," he decides, and as anyone who  
nominating statement <:ailed Ms. Kennedy and often much more for the over 350 confusing.  has played lacrosse will attest, it's not an  
.. a pri,oncr of conscien<.:e" and said "she students from 62 countries that come to  easy sport to pick up.  
Ill·longs to the world community of political Notre Dame. Paul Hesspri-,oners. J anc Kennedy is a disciple of Organized nine years ago by Mrs. R. tho~e who <.:rcatcd and sustained the Rembold, the program has matched volun­tradition of nonviolent civil clisobcdince. In teering South Bend families with the THE that tradition of Thoreau, Gandhi and incoming students. Often these families  There's another club sport here at du Lae that, though perhaps not as intricate, is certainly as challenging. The English call it football--we know it as rugby. Tovey, a diminutive sophomore from New Jersey, is  
King. she understands the importance of hear of the program from friends, or violating certain laws in order to serve a through the efforts of Fr. Dan O'Neil, OTHERmud1 broader moral. historical. and social director of the International Students  "a rugger." Like most Notre Dame rugby players, the first game he saw was the first one he  
Office. These families express the desirepurpose. If .Jane Kennedy were invited back to to broaden the scope of their experiences, Notre Dame (she was here during the and those of their children. They also wish SPORTS  played in. Why did he join? " 'Cause it looked like fun," he candidly replies. And, like Bingle before him, his new-found  
Cambodian crisis, and deeply impressed to help the newcomers become smoothly  diversion ha~ :sort of grown on the  
all who heard her speak), she might very adjusted to America, much as they would  curly-haired engineering major. "I really  
likely repeat. in an address to students, want someone to help their children, if they Mark Tovey. Tom Bingle. John  enjoy it," the good-natured serum half  
remarks she has made in recent months. studied away from home. Romanelli. Tom Bernardin. Recognize  declares. "It entails everything I like in  
And. as this academic year comes to a After the initial arrangements, the any of these athletes' names? Probably  sports--running, hitting, stiff competi­ 
dose. they would be well worth pondering. family and the student exchange letters, not, for theirs are the sports that you never On Prison Life: "It is hard for anyone on explaining each other's background and hear about. Or at least, very rarely. the outside to comprehend what a 'terrible home lives. They also take this opportunity "Non-varsity athletics" is what they're officially known as. Or, perhaps a littledepression prison is. It is so bad. I have to to make preparatory arrangements for the say to myself. 'it's all right to cry. to be coming year. ·Jess derogatorily, "the club sports." 1 There are hundreds nationwide whoBut if Usually, the family will meet the student  tion." Teammate Joe Olsen, a junior account­ing major from Joliet, Ill., concurs. "What I like most is thatyou get to hit people, "he says. Both Tovey and Olsen played football in high school, as nearly every 

depressed when you live this way.' you can embrace the experience fully. it is at the airport a few days before sehool 
*Observer 
Features 
suffer the same fate as these four, laboring dutifully in almost total obscurity. Dutiful­ly, yet happily, for such is their addiction to their respective sports. "I just love the sport," says Romanelli of lacrosse. His response is typical. 
A freshman from Long Island, Romanelli is a dark-haired lad of average height and average build, his outward appearance suggesting little more than the fact that he is obviously Italian. To look at him, you wouldn't know he was an exceptional athlete. Yet Romanelli and his mates seem not to be annoyed a great deal by the lack of publicity the lacrosse squad rugger does, and the two wholeheartedly agree that rugby is the rougher of the two sports. "The hitting is just as hard, if not harder," says Tovey. "They wear pads-­don't," adds Olsen convincingly, wincing at the thought. 
Perhaps Jimmy Carter summed it up best a few weeks ago while appearing at ND for a campaign spiel. En route from his motorcade to Stepan Center on foot, the Human Smile took a detour to the rugby practice field to chat momentarily with the team. "Rugby?" the hopeful candidate proclaimed, "Why...t~at's a tough sport!" 
Indeed, Mr. Carter, they all are. 

---------------------~~~ ~ ~ 
:""' the observer Wednesday, April 28, 1976 
·~ 

Airplane crashes in Virgin Islands, 36 missing 
CHARLOTI'E AMALIE, Virgin Islands AP-An American Airlines jet with 88 persons aboard crashed into an embankment at the end of the airport runway yesterday, rip­ped across a busy highway and exploded in flames. 
Hospital authorities said 52 pas­sengers and crew members were treated for injuries, leaving 36 persons killed or unaccounted for. Civil Defense officials reported earlier that 47 bodies were re-

Mine explosions studied 
WHITESBURG. Ky. AP -An official of the Kentucky Mines and Minerals Department had told federal investigators they are too narrow-minded if they try to attri­bute two explosions at the Scotia Coal Co. No. I mine in southeast­ern Kentucky to a spark from a compressor motor. 
Sam Johnson, executive assistant to mines and minerals commis­sioner Harreld N. Kirkpatrick, testified Tuesday as the U. S. Interior Department resumed pub­lic hearings on the disaster that killed 26 men at Oven Fork in Letcher County. 
Johnson was asked by Interior Undersecretary Fred Karem whe­ther he had an opinion on whether the switching of an automatic compressor was "clearly the cause" of the second blast in the mine. 
"Clearly the cause?" Johnson repeated. "This dwelling on the compressor may cause you to be narrow-minded.'' 
He said four to five other possible causes of the blasts have been suggested in testimony before the 
"Trudeau is a8·52 pilot of the draw· ing board. He may drop them blind from ten miles up,but he likes to get down on the ground occasion· allyto check out the damage.'~rom · 
Tales From the Margaret Mead Taproom 
And so it was that Doonesbury's Pulitzer Prize winning young creator Garry Trudeau set out to find truth mirroring art in American Samoa. In a zany fortnight chronicled by the perceptive wit of Nicholas von Hoffman and illumined by the fantasy counter· point of Doonesbury's resident maniac of international diplomacy, Uncle Duke, the many-sides of America's colonial paradise are hilariously revealed. Tales From the Margaret Mead Taproom is at once a rare inside view of the Samoan experience and an even rarer glimpse into the private world of Garry Trudeau. Available now at your bookstore. $6.95. 
Sheed & Ward 

moved from the wreckage, but it was determined later that some of the body bags used at the site contained only portions of badly charred victims. 
The survivors were taken to Knud Hansen Hospital, the only hospital on St. Thomas Island. A hospital announcement said 19 persons were admitted and two were flown by helicopter to Puerto Rico. The others were treated and released. Three persons on the ground who 
panel, and that "seven or eight more" may be brought up before the investigation is complete. 
Robert Barrett, administrator of the Interior Department's Mining Enforcement and Safety Admini­stration (MESA) and chairman of the investigation panel, said the probe will continue until the sealed mine is reopened. No date has been set for opening the mine. 
He said the department may hold additional public hearings after federal inspectors have a chance to examine the mine. 
The first explosion March 91eft IS miners dead. Eleven men who were conducting a cleanup opera­tion were killed in the second blast 
March 11. 
,, .. :· '<' ...· •.. 

~~-------------------------------------,
! 
!
i 
! 
I
1
I I
I
I
1 
I 
II 
1 
I I
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I

I
·---~~---------------------~-~----------~ 
Experienced ! South Bendfliers fly ! Unitedfrom Michiana ! 
Regional 
South Bend residents who fly a lot can tell you. Taking off from Michiana Regional Airport is a hetter idea than driving to Chicago's O'Hare Field. 
To hegin with, the average South Bend home is so much closer to Michiana than it is to O'Hare. So your trip is that much shorter. Those extra minutes can make a hig difference when you're on a tight schedule. 
Rying from right here in South Bend can 
save you money, too. Because air fare to United's 
"Saving you time and money right in your own backyard. That's Friendship Service:· 
~ 
were hit by debris also were treated at the hospital. 
Among those released were the pilot, Arthur Bujnowski, 53, of Huntington, N. Y., and copilot Don Nestler, 44, from Smithtown, N.Y. Bujnowski had several bruises but Nestler appeared uninjured. Both declined to talk with reporters. 
The plane struck at least seven automobiles and smashed into a srvice station and a tavern, a fire official said. Two cars were crushed under the smouldering fuselage. 
An American Airlines spokesman in New York City said the flight originated in Providence, R. I., with a stop at Kennedy. 
In Washington the National Transportation Safety Board said it was dispatching a team to investi­gate the accident. 
At the crash scene, one middle-aged man had his hair burned off and half his scalp torn away. 
A young woman dressed in a blue pants suit was dragging her leg, which was apparently broken. A rescue worker picked her up and carried her off. 
Part of the plane came to rest just below a little hill dotted with small businesses and homes. Most survivors apparently got out from the port side and wandered up the hill away from t~e burning wreck­
age and gas statton. 

There was no screaming or shout­ing, except by rescue workers trying to organize a litter squad to 
bring the  survivors  down to  the  
road,  the  only  access  to  the  
hospital.  

The survivors were glassy-eyed, dazed, some with hands outstret­ched as if reaching for help. 
The hospital put out an emergen­cy call for blood and dozens of donors began lining up immediate­ly. Most of St. Thomas was unaware of the crash since there was an annual ''food fair'' in downtown Charlotte Amalie's mar­ket square as part of a two-week celebration. 
Wild Bill Plott.,s Riding Stables 3165 Portage Rd. I block north of State Line ( 3/4 mile north of Schuell Nursery) 
phone 683-2923 
•
8am-6pm dally except Mon. an rt. 
The crash tore down power and telephone line near the airport and blacked out communications and electricity in about a third of Charlotte Amalie. 
Harry S. Truman airport has been criticized by local politicians and citizens who claim the airstrip is unsafe. As recently as a month and a half ago, a congressional delega­tion inspected the facility because of continued requests by the Virgin Islands government for federal funds to extend and improve the strip. 
FAA officials and airline repre­sentatives described the airstrip as marginal in terms of safety. 

ort. ! 
I 

cities in the East is less from Michiana than it I 
is from O'Hare. And only a few dollars more 
from Michiana to the West. Even parking fees I1111 
are lower here in South Bend. For reservations, call your Travel Agent. I 
The 'travel pro who can give you all the figures, I 
help you plan your trip, and hook you a flight 1 
to any one of the 61 cities United serves from I 
South Bend. Or call United at 232-4811. Partners 
in Travel with Western International Hotels. I
The friendly skies I ofyourland. 1 
I I
I
I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
II 

. . . .. . 
! 

Wednesday, April 28, 1976 the observer
Still experimental 
Institute researching less harmful cigarettes 
NEW YORK AP-The National Cancer Institute, which for years has been urging Americans to stop smoking, is now sponsoring re­search to make less hazardous cigarettes and it's already produc­ing results, an institute scientist said. 
It isn t a case of "if you can't lick'cm, join'cm," because the institute's main mes­sage is "Don't Smoke," Dr. Gio B. Gori daid yesterday. 
Gori, deputy director of the 
VATICAN CITY -Pope Paul VI reached out to six continents yesterday and named 19 new cardinals, including Archbishop William Baum of Washington, D. C., a tighter against racism. The pontiff's action made the body that elects popes younger and more representative of the Roman Cath­olic Church in the Third World. 
It also fueled speculation that the next pope might be a non-Italian. 
Pope Paul. in calling the fifth consistory of his 13-ycar reign, also selected two additional new cardi­nals but kept their names secret. In the past the Pope has held the names of prelates "in pectorc"--in his breast--because they lived in Communist countries. 
The selection of Archbishop Baum. a 49-year-old Texan, gives the United States, a country of more than 48 million Roman Cath­olics, 12 members in the Sacred College of Cardinals. This is the biggest U. S. representation ever, although three of the cardinals arc retired and one is over 80 and ineligible to vote in a conclave for a new pope. 
In his first homily in Washington in 1973, Archbishop Baum said "The Church. notably in our own nation and its capital. . .clearly must do battle with racism and with all other forces which threaten human life and dignity." 
The new cardinals officially will be elevated to the purple in a close door "secret consistory" at the Vatican on May 24. 
In his selection, the 78-year-old pontiff took another step toward rejuvenating and internationalizing institute's division of cancer cause and prevention, said 60 million Americans continue to smoke des­pite warnings of health hazards -a number "sufficient to justify our research" to reduce their risks of cancer. 
Toabacco companies are sup­porting the research and being informed of progress, and "Some new cigaretes of the last six months are a result," Gori said. 
He described methods of making 
the Sacred College of Carmnals, once dominated by Italians. 
The Pope, who has been stressing the Church's missionary role, named cardinals from six conti­nents--four from Africa, five from North and South America, two from Asia, seven from Europe and one from New Zealand, Oceania. 
For the first time ever there are cardinals from the Dominican Re­public, Senegal, Uganda and Ni­geria. 
The new elevations increased the college from 117 to 136, falling short of the record 145 reached at the Pope's last consistory three years ago. Of these, 118 are under 80 and eligible to vote for a pope. 
The Vatican said the Pope, in his latest selection, made "a signifi­cant choice proceeding with his desire of making the Sacred Col­lege of Cardinals a faithful image of the entire Church." 
The Italians drew three cardinals, making their number 36, still the largest group but down from 41 three years ago. The United States is next with 12. 
Technically there arc 13 American cardinals, since Archbishop Luis Aponte Martinez of San Juan is a 
U.S. Citizen. But he is a member of me Latin American Episcopal Conference and is con­sidered Latin American by the Vatican. Speculation that the next pope might be a non-Italian gained momentum as the new choices showed non-Italians continuing to outnumber Italians. The last non-Italian Pope was Adrian VI. a Dutchman who ruled briefly in the 16th century. 
cigarettes less hazardous to the like a cigarette but just produced that are precursors of toxic or Third International Symposium on hot air, then add the right fla-harmful ingredients. Detection and Prevention of Can-voring. Instead of spacing plants gener­cer. "ln the broad view, I don't ously apart, crowd them like wheat 
believe there is such a thing as a or corn. The plants then are lessNot one of some 76 persons nonhazardous cigarette," he told efficient in producing harmful in-attending the session, on preven­
the symposium. gredients.
tion of smoking, was observed to be Cigarettes are implicated with -In processing, try to removesmoking, although ashtrays had causing heart disease as well as precursors of tar or other harmfulbeen provided in the hotel meeting 
lung cancer. ingredients, then add some inertroom. 
Gori said methods of making material, like calcium carbonate. 
Gori has said on earlier occca-cigarettes less hazardous include: This adds to weight, making more sions at the institute the goal would -Using fertilizer, so the plants cigarettes, but each produces less be to make something that looked and leaves contain less materials tobacco fuel on each puff. This 
'Women exploited' founder ~·~~r~~~h;: ~~eha~~~·t· pro~Jising 

to dl·scuss pro-l,·te ,·ssue 
Laurie Nelson, founder and pres­ident of Women Exploited (W.E.) will speak at the Notre Dame Memorial Library Auditorium on Thursday, April 29, 1976 at 7:30 
p.m. W.E. is an organization composed of women who have had abortions. but have now become pro-life. Members arc working to dissuade others from making the same mistake. 
Women from W.E. are engaged in on-the-spot counseling at abortion clinics. They distribute literature which explains unborn child devel­opment and the physical and psychological consequences of abortion, and material which offers and explains alternatives. 
The uniqueness of W.E. stems from the fact that members have experienced abortions and conseq­uently have good rapport with women intending to choose abor­tion as a solution to a problem pregnancy. 
"Often women are hoping to obtain counseling at the last minute from the very people who are making money by exploiting their condition," Nelson stated. "Wo­
men arriving at the clinic are often confused and frightened. They only need encouragement, and the knowledge that someone is on their side. to make the decision to let 
Job applications available to juniors 
Any members of next year's Junior Class who are seriously interested in part-time employment for next semester in the South Bend -Mishawaka area, will have the opportunity to fill out employ­ment applications in the North and South dining halls on Thursday and Friday night, April 29 and 30. 
Prospective employers will be contacted through the Indiana Un­employment Commission and will be prepared to negotiate working hours in September. 
This service is being provided for the class of 1978 by the newly elected Junior Class Officers. Tex Keffler, class treasurer, and Dave Purcell, spokesman for the Indiana Unemployent Commission, are confident in the success of this program, but stress that the appli­cant must be willing to commit himself to negotiating hours in the fall. Any questions please contact either Tex Keffler at 1603, or Sue Bailey at 1361. 
their baby continue to Jive," Net-son said. 
She said that in their discussions with women at the clinics. they try to impress upon them the humanity of their unborn babies and the psychological and physical harm that an abortion can do. 
"There arc many women who are coerced into abortion by boy­friends, husbands. parents and even doctors. They really don't want to kill the baby within them, but they don't know where to go for alternatives," Nelson commented. 
Nelson reported that abortion clinic personnel do not like W.E. "They have called police, sent their security guards out onto the side­walks to watch the women, and have even come out to escort the women still deliberating inside the clinic," Nelson continued. "W.E. will go on and will grow and because of it so will life," Nelson 
-Use htghly porous ctgarctte paper, reducing the amount ~l.f 
tobacco burned on each puff. thereby producing less tar and other clements. The burning temperature also goes down. 
Gori also said that filters have limited value on cigarettes, be­cause each different type ma~· remove some undesirable product~ but not others. 
RESEARCH 
FREE CATALOG! 
Write or call for your copy of our latest catalog of over 5,000 re­search studies. These studies are designed to HELP YOU IN THE PREPARATION of 
• Research Papers 
• 
Essays • Case Stud1es 

• 
Speeches • Book Revrews WE ALSO DO CUSTOM WRITING 


MINUTE RESEARCH 1360 N. Sandburg, #1602 Ch1cago. llhno1s 60610 
312-337-2704 

FIRST EDITION 
COLLECTOR'S PLATES "GOLDEN DOM£ of NOTRE DAME" 

Limited edition of 1,000 S 1 2 . 50 
We have a wide selection of other limited edition plates. 
KAGEL flowers & Gifts 602 N. Mic.higan St. South Bend 233-2232 
Ridgewood F1ne China 
ffoMvNOTRE-DAME-FRiENDSl 
~ Vote For · I 
"LITTLE JOE" 
IIZAPPIA J' 1 
DEMOCRAT FOR ;:~ I 3rd DISTRICT COMMISSIONER If " I 
On May 4 Cast Your Vote i ~· ! For "LITTLE JOE" .Ia I / :1 I 
........................................................................................................ 
------~~~~~~~~--~----------~ 
Paroles eliminated 
Maine writes revolutionary Criminal Code 
AUGUSTA, Maine (AP) --Pros­behavior should be subjected to allowed to take the life of any attached and no close supervi-Maine's largest city. 
titutes in Maine won't have to worry about jail terms after Satur­day. Possessing a small amount of marijuana will no longer be a serious crime. But a five-year prison sentence will mean just that--no early release on parole. 
A new state Criminal Code, 
adopted last year and revised this 
year, takes effect Saturday. It is 
the first comprehensive rewriting 
of the criminal statutes since Maine 
became a state in 1820. 

''Most of the controversial pro­
visions of the code pertain to the 
question of what areas of human 
New Study of Man director appointed 
David C. Leege, program dir­
ector for political science for the 
National Science Foundation 

(NSF). has been appointed director 
of the Center for the Study of Man 
in Contemporary Society at the Uni 
versity of Notre Dame. 

The Center, established in 1961 
under the directorship of Dr. 

George N. Shuster, fosters inter­
disciplinary research, especially in 
the social sciences and humanities, 
at the University. 

"Dr. Leege combines a cross­
disciplinary perspective with solid 
credentials in research manage­
ment," commented Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, "and we are conf­ident that under him the Center will continue to bring the best scholarly research to bear on society's major problems." 
Leege succeeds Dr. Wlliam T. 

Liu, professor of sociology, who is 
on leave from the University. His 
appointment is effective August 1, 
and he will also hold a faculty 
appointment as a professor of 
government and international st­
udies. 

A 1959 graduate of Valparaiso 
University, Leege received his 
doctorate in political science from 

Indiana University in 1965. From 
1964 to 1968 he taught at the 
University of Missouri and directed 
its public opinion survey unit. 

He joined the faculty of the State 
University of New York at Buffalo in 
1968 and in 1970 became director of 
its Survey Research Center. He 
left Buffalo to assume the chair­

manship of the Department of 
Political Science at the University of 
Illinois. Chicago Circle, in 1972 and 
has been on leave from that 
institution in his NSF position. 
Leege is a past chairman of the 
American Political Science Asso­

ciation's task force on computer 
related instruction and is a member 
of the editorial board of the 
American Journal of Political Sci­
ence. He is a coauthor of "Political 
Research : Design. Measurement 
and Analysis," published in 1974. 
He has also held several posi­tions on commissions and councils of· the Lutheran Church­Missouri Synod. 

Recital to feature saxophonist, flutist 
Saxophonist Dennis Bamber, ad­junct instructor of music at the University of Notre Dame, will be joined by Mark Thomas, renowned flutist and artist in residence of the 
W.T. Armstrong Company of Elk­hart, in a recital at 8:15 p.m. Wednesday, April 28 in the Mem­orial Library Auditorium. 
William Cerny, Notre Dame Music Department Chairman, will present piano accompaniment and the trio will be joined by Anthony Spano, principal clarinetist of the South Bend Symphony and Mid­west Chamber Orchestras. Both Thomas and Spano serve on the Notre Dame music faculty. 
Music of Debussy, Koechlin, Dubois, Isele and Stein will be performed by the group during the recital. The program is open to the public without charge. 

criminal law," says state Atty. criminal intruder, even an unarmed sion," said Brennan, who says Under Maine's old laws, pros­Gen. Joseph E. Brennan. "We one, who refuses to leave after parole has proven ineffective in titutes could be jailed for three tried to get a lot of junk off the being warned. Maine. years. The new law provides fines codes to make more time available In eliminating indefinite sen-Among victimless crimes taken of $250 or twice the fee a prostitute for police to concentrate on genuine tences, the code makes Maine off the books are sexual acts receives. Those promoting prosti­anti-social behavior.'' unique in the nation. Judgesmust between consenting but unmarried tution or compelling others to 
The code includes such stringent fix a sentence at a specific number adults, such as adultery. become prostitutes can still be provisions as elimination of parole of years or months, not subject to Brennan said prostitution is not a jailed, however. for sentenced prisoners, mandatory early release for parole. Prisoners major concern of law enforcement The code provides fines, but not life imprisonment for murder under can still get some time off for good officials in this mostly rural state of jail terms or criminal records, for certain circumstances, and manda­behavior, however. 1 million. He said he could recall possessing less than one and a half tory prison terms for repeat burg­prosecuting only one case in two ounces of marijuana. The old law lars and criminals who use fire­"Once a prisoner is released, years of services as county attorney provides fines up to$40,000and jail arms. Homeowners would be he's released with no strings as the area that includes Portland, terms up to 11 months. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Low -Low Prices on Macrame Hangers and Pots!!! 
SHOP 
Many unusual items. 
2340 miracle lane mishawaka, indiana 46544
NEW SHIPMENT OF 
219/256·0111 
tNEW-Lo&iidN~t

WATCHE:S 
:MILANO'S l 
BVLOVA ACCVTRON 
t ORDER YOUR t 

CARAVELLE t. GRADUATION t 
DIGITAL CRAFTSMANSHIP l PARTY l t PIZZA t 
f FROM US f 
• WATCH REPAIR 

MARK D. HIRTH ·~.~ 
Licensed Watchmaker 
! PIZZA DELIVERY !
• CLOCK REPAIR 
~ 
• JEWELRY 
' AVAILABLE TO ' 
REPAIR 

HIRTH'S JEWELERS 
!ND-SMC CAMPUS l
• ENGRAVING 

913 W. McKinley Hwy.
. o ANTIQUE 
' MILANO'S
College Square 

WATCH Mishawaka, Indiana
& CLOCK 
! 815 W. McKINLEY ! 
REPAIR 

(219) 255·381 7 (219) 287·9893 ' MISHAWAKA ' 
•TIMEX REPAIR 

Business Home 
~COLLEGE SQUARE)~ t ~ON!!!6-1!_5!_j
-----------------~ 
Come You Fightin' Irish 
UCC!SS~:R1;::R &F::::~~~yWINES-LIQUORS 
Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM 


LIQUOR · WINE 
10% DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC I.D. 
BEER · BEST PRICE IN TOWN VOLUME DISCOUNT SENIORS YOLfVE FREE DELIVERY 
FREE DELIVERY 

ND nine splits twinbill with Ball State 
by Rich Odloso runs. relief and pitched strongly fanning game will be Wednesday, May 5
Frank Fiascki attempted to sacri­
Jim Sholl came on to pitch four seven batters in a 5 % inning stint, against defending Big Ten Champ
fice the runners but his bunt had
The names of the winning teams innings of strong relief until he including five in a row. Michigan. Jake Kline Field will be
tremendous backspin heading back 
were different but both games of 
tired in a five-run Ball State sixth Notre Dame scored its final run officially dedicated that day and it
toward the Cardinal catcher. Stan
the Notre Dame-Ball State double­but the Irish were unable to touch Neuenschwander who let it roll in the sixth on a single by Tim will also be senior farewell day. 
heaJer yesterday followed the 
VanDeWielle a right-hander from Pollock, a Walbrun sacrifice and
hoping it would go foul. It didn't. 
same script. In each the wi~ning 
South Bend St. Joe's. When Neuenschwander eventually Bob Cleary's looping single to left. ND women beaten
team scored four runs in the first 
Wolfe turned the tables on the IRISH ITEMS-The split left
did pick the ball up and throw to
and went on to win behind shutout 
Cardinals in the second game. Notre Dame with a 9-21 record
first it went into right field allowing The Notre Dame Women's Golf
pitching. 
Wolfe scattered five singles, while the Cardinals are 25-9....The
Pullano to score. Bob Stratta and team is still feeling the growing
Dave VanDeWielle tossed a 
walked three and fanned six in Irish play their next eight games on
Dave Lazzeri then ran the hit streak pains associated with the develop­
three-hitter for Ball State in the 
posting his record to 4-3. the road with doubleheaders at
to five with RBI singles. ment of a new club sport.
opener as the Cardinals romped 9-0 
The Irish hitters meanwhile Xavier, Cinninnati, Butler and 
Playing in back to back invita­
but Don Wolfe came back for Notre 
found the lefthcanded offerings of Sharon got one out but then Detrpit on Friday, Saturday, Sun­tionals, the Irish could not seem to
Dame in the second game throwing 
Ball State's Tom Sharon very much walked Tom Walbrun and gave up day and Tuesday ...Notre Dame will get on track, finishing fourth in the 
a S-0 five-hitter. 
to their liking. The first five ND a Stoltz hit to right for the fourth be the guest's of the Expos at First Annual "Chief" Broderick
Irish starter Mitch Stoltz couldn't 
batters to face him pounded sin­run. Friday's Montreal-Cincinnati 
Invitational held at Notre Dame
find the plate in the opener's first 
gles. Ray Lyttle came in at this point in game...Notre Dame's final home and twentieth in the University of
inning as he walked the first three 
Rick Pullano started the hit 
Kentucky Iavitational held at Lake
batters to face him. A sacrifice fly. 
parade with a line drive hit to right 
Barkley. Kentucky.
an error and a two-run triple by Jeff 
and Mike Galloway singled him to The Broderick. hosted by the
Irish golfers finish 13th
Eader then accounted for the four 
second. Irish, was won by Southern Illinois 
The Irish golfers were on the pair of 77's to finish with a 154. He University with St. Mary's and road last week, as they travelled to was joined there by fellow fresh-Western Michigan finishing second 
Irish boaters go undefeated 
the Purdue Invitational in West man Biv Wadden who had an and third respectively. 
The Notre Dame club soccer in the first live minutes and went Lafayette, Indiana. The IS-team opening 74 and finished with an 80 The women were victims of the team downed previously on to defeat Tri-State. 2-1. Roman event was contested over the for 154. Dave Richter, another ever-changing South Bend weath­­undefeated Illinois State on Friday Klos once again tallied for the 6,400-yard, par-70 South Course on freshman, making his first varsity er, sunny and warm one day, cold and Tri-State on Saturday to earn Irish. giving himself goals in five of the Boilermaker campus, the Irish appearance for the Irish, fared and rainy the next. Sarah McCree 

the distinction of being the only the six games. Co-captain Tom totalling 779 for the 36 holes to well, coming through with 80 -78 of Southern Illinois was the medal­Irish team to go undefeated for the Mulvey got the second score of the finish 13th. The Notre Dame score for 158. ist with a 179, followed. by Barb 1975-76 year. The club finishes day and the rest of the way the was up just three shots from last The Irish have one invitational Breesmen, the Irish team captain. with a 4-0-2 record and will only he story was the netminding of Mark year when the Irish finished sixth. remaining following Monday's The University of Kentucky Invi­losing two regulars as they look to L. Klein. The strength of this year's field Mid-American at Hueston Woods tational was highlighted by the play next fall's season. The Irish outscored their opp­was indicated by Ohio State's Golf Club at Miami of Ohio. Friday of Cathy Reynolds who set a course 
Friday night the hooters braved onents 22 to 7 on the year and there winning score of 721. 20 shots the Notre Dame golfers will return record and led the Tulsa University the weather as they defeated is high hopes for the team next fall. ahead of second place Marshall to the site of the Kepler Invitation-team to a number one finish. Nancy previously unbeaten Illinois State According to coach Bob Connolly University. at, the Scarlet Course at Ohio State, Lopez, also from Tulsa and national by a 4-2 score. Paced by the "I really got a good look at our For Coach O'Sullivan's squad, for the 36-hole Northern lntercolle-women's amateur champ. finished omnipresent Roman Klos who led prospects for the upcoming fall All-America candidate Paul Kop­giate. The field will be loaded with second. the way with a hat trick, the Irish season and I was very pleased with rowski again led the way, tallying Big Ten representatives. the favor-The Irish hope to avenge an rolled along despite the wet turf what I saw. The team responded 77-74 for a 151, placing him in the ite being the host Buckeyes who earlier defeat when they face· St. and blustery wind. Bill Hagerty very well to a tough schedule this top 20. Freshman Tim Saurs fired a have captured the Kepler and Mary's this Sunday afternoon on also Sl'orcd for the Irish. spring and I am extremely pleased Purdue Invitationals 'already this the Burke Memorial Golf Course at 
Saturday the Irish used two goals with their with their progress.'' 
lassified Ads-sea-son_.____t:oo.....,.~~!P.!R 
LOST & FOUND Brown & Gold shag perfectly cut for For summer renta. Super 4 bed­
Regina single. Also good for any room fully furnished house near Lost: light brown wallet, between other small room. Call 4-4226 Jeff-Eddy. Washer, dryer, all pay cafeteria and 2nd floor Iibrary utilities. $175. 234-1972 sometime last week. If found please For Sale: two matching bedspreads­

NOTICES Goodby, NO Friends; My new
return, I need ID., licence, etc., call blue, green, yellow & white striped 3 bedroom furnished apartment. one Address: Jerry Florent
Bob 234-0267 muslin. Machine washable. Excel­half of a duplex. deposit. lease, tor
Bo5fon Baggage Truck: Warwick 38 A PTS. 
lent condition. Call Mo orJean fall term. Call 255-3205
Pick up time 1 5 at both St. Mary's 3744 Warwick BLVD.
Lost: Ladies silver watch in vicinity 4-5486 Parking Lot and the Bookstore Lot Apt. 5
of Nickles. Great sentimental value. 
Miliken Rentals 282-2089-233-5833 
on Monday May 10. For more infor. Kansas City, Mo 64111
Please. call 57 41 or 5368 FIAT 128 4 door '73, as new. Call House & apartments available torcall 8645 
Fernando After 6 PM. 277-0188 June or Sept. 
Mary D.
Lost: Gold watch between Grotto 
Need ride to sunny San Diego What a rude awakening! The pie In
and Grace Hall or Student Parking Dual 1229Q changer. $180 Call Len 2 rooms $40 a month 233-1329
May Call Tom at 8526 or 7471 Will you eye looked better than the two
Lot. Call Ann 4-4343 289-8990 Less than lyr. old-excel­
Share expenses pounds of make-up you usually
lent condition. Home completely furnished ranging 
wear.
Lost: A longines Jubilee watch with from 2 to 7 bedrooms. Call Mr.
N.Y. MET Club Baggage Truck to Monte Cristo
leather band, regarded as a keep­Need a Refrigerator for next year? Humborgar 234-9364Long Island .. Loading May 8,9, 10, 
sake, has engraved on the back "To Still have plenty left for a supersend $5.00 deposit to Doug Schu­BLIP-
John, from aunt Helen, June 1974" price!! Call Biv. 6891 2-7 bedroom houses for 3 month
macher, 1315 Elwood Ave., S Keep up the good work. See you In
Calll612, 138 Dillon Reward offered summer rentals. All furnished. Cll
So. Bend 46628 Info. 288-0498 3 weeks! Hi to Zar nd the Floks.
Furniture for Sale! Furnished Apt. 288-6259 after 6 pm. 
Jersey Doc
Lost: Silver Timex watch. Saturday at Turtle Creek-must sell furniture. 
YEAR END SALE FROM FLAN+ 
between Stepan and Lewis. If found You can store it at fieldhouse till 4 bedroom suburban house. 3 miles
NER RECORDS! Purchase any "As Time Goes by"
call Marianne 8060 next year. call 277-0103 from ND. Completely furnished
order Album for our everyday low Don't be shy
vilable for one year beginning June
price of $4.45 and you can buy any Ask you honey,
WANTED Smith Corona Electric typewriter 1st. 1976. Rent $350. Call 283-7215
stock album for only $4.05 or buy Don't make her cry,
Auto Return Ex. Cond. 1 yrs. old 5 or272-6970 (evening)
any stock album for only $4.30. We Grab her thigh,
NO Students wanted for full time yr. guar. Call 284-4744. have the new America, seals and And bring her by,
jobs May 5-May 16. We Need 6. Student Housing. Off Campus
crofts, paul mcCartney, Led Zeppe­To the Senior Class Formal, Monday
Hours: 8 :00-6:30 Man. Fri Reportto Must sell stereo. One month old. 
close to Notre Dame. House at 1225
lin, and Peter Frampton and more! Personnel Pioneer SX-950 PL-112 D Omega May 10. 
E. Campeau Sf .5 bedroom. LivingIn Stock!! Come to 807 Flanner or 4-way speakers. Call 1623. 
room, Kitchen, bath, fully turn·
call1488 Summer roommate needed. 3 bed­
nished, washer & dryer, trash SHAMBO, lssy, Kirbs, Hairy, and room completely furnished house. after 4 pm.
removal, security, call Slylo: Until September, I bid all youTyping 35 cents a page. Call Dan. 
Call Teri 287-6638 phone 232-7180 Winter or summer A-RABS FAREWELL!
272-5549 FOR RENT 
students. Mr. Mike Need ride to Phil. or N.J. Area. Linda's Letters, dissertations, 2 Houses for rent for summer $150
MAYl 0 or later. Call Cathy 4-5349 House for summer rent. Excellentspecialists, typing at student rates mo. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004 condition. Call 1292. Need a place to stay in Chicago this
-289-5193 
Wanted: one soul strutting partner June, July, & August. Any informa.
House for Rent. 4 bed, 2bath, 912for Becky lion will help. Call Gregg at 1615.
STEREO COMPONENTS Howard St. $250 per month Utilities --------------­20 percent-40 percent Discount All included. Ph.287-3874 
Near campus 1 large apt. 2 or 3 turn.
Babysitter wanted for summer to quality name brands. RMS Audio care for 3 boys age 7-9. 
utilites. Two kitchenettes 1 person,Good pay K. of C. spring picnic this Saturday.
turn. utilities. Summer only morn­and close to N.D. Hours: 7 am-4pm., Sign-up lists and further details at321 S. Main 288-1681 M-F Available Immediately for married ings or evenings. 272-6174
12:00 6:00 facYity, graduate or law couple. 2
Mon. Fri. If interested call Kevin at 
the council. 8593. 
bdrms Apt. in excellent condition. Accurate, fast typing. Hours 8 AM Just Completely remodeled. Stove to BPM Mrs. Donoho 232-0746 & Refrig provided. 5 closesst -$160 house near Campus tor
Wanted: Ride to Toledo this Furnished weekend. Call Peggy 6661. 3-4 available for Summer and Fall
per month includes utilities. 
ND-SMC Council tor the RetardedRUGBY SHIRTS -!IDENTICAL 287-7617 272-6174 Apt. call mornings or Banquet Fri. 6:30-9:30. We needSHIRTS AS THE CHEERLEADERS FOR SALE evenings. help. Tom Harbin 287-6673 Kathy
FOR $13.00 IDEAL FOR GIFTS. 6 Bedroom house with fireplace for McGlynn 288-4315ALSO, FOOTBALL T-SH IRTS IN rent for next school year. Also a
4.6 Cubic Foot Refridgerator. Only
NAVY OR YELLOW FOR $3.50 nice 4 bedroom house 233-2613
Used One Year. Call 287-8826 PERSONALS CALL DAVID BOSSY 277-0948 232-7263 AHention, men of Notre Dame I CR,
Cheap transportation home 1970 Dear Johnny Babe, 
washington, D.C. Club Baggage 6 BDR -3 BDR. FURNISHED specially imported from Louisville,
Chevy Caprice Wagon $230 Rick Planning on any incriminating per­will be available in South Bend for
truck to Bethesda, Maryland 234 1431 HOUS.ES. Contact Mr. Gatto sonals? Too bad. I was just Deposit required before May 5 Call 234-6688 promoted to 'personal editor I only 3 more weeksl Absolutely no Rob 233. 17-97 (3 :00 PM · 6:00 PM) or offers accepted after Mav 12th.
Mexican Shirts; guys and girls. Call censure every one of them. This is Monica 287-8506 (6:00 PM 9:00 Summer Sublet. 1 Bedroom unfurn-
Pat 3444, SMC Debbie 4284 the position of journalistic power to PM) ished apt. Rent negotiable. which 1aspire. Thanks for a great week 
1971 VW Bus. White over green. 288-9646. Who else? Love, your new roommate! 
N.D. S.M.C.Council for the Retard­
64,000 MI. Just tuned with new ed: The Awards Banquet has been SMC Professor desires 1 2
muffler. 24 Highway MPG. One or Susy,changed to Fri. April 30, 6:30-9:30. bedroom home or apartment to rent.
owner 287-7617 Although there are only 4 more
Is. your club interested in a conces·
ALL volunteers working at Logan Please call 284-4095 8-5 shopping days until your birthday 
Center this are sion stand during next fall's football
year invited. 1966 MGB -IGT Tan 4 speed, radio, (May2), 1 would like to give you a Reminder: No Sat. Rec. this week. 
House for summer rated superior season? Call Student Activities,
wire wheels with Knock-off. Good big hug and kiss for our 21stl 
Any questions call Sue Maude furnished, w&d very cheap. Call 7308, NOW.
condition, rare, collectors item. Happy Birthday! Oinks. 277-1182 or Jim Scott 1745 1760 ­
$1200 or best offer. ~---------=-----­
--~--~---------------------------------------­


12 the observer Wednesday, April 28, 1976 
Browner: from offense to defense 
by Patrick Cole 
This spring, Notre Dame football has been different for Jimmy Browner -he finds himself looking at the position he played last fall on the other side of the field when he lines up. 
Is he on the wrong side of the field? Not at all. For Browner, the switch to strong safety is a new position for him, but an old way of football he is used to. 
"When I was recruited by Notre Dame, I was a defensive lineback­er." said the six-foot-three-inch, 205-pound freshman from Warren, Ohio. "So when I came here, I was converted to offense." 
Yet Browner played fullback during his days at Western Reserve High School. He was a three-sport athlete in football, basketball and track. His senior year, he gained All-Ohio and All-America recogni­tion· in football including selection on the Big 33 all-star squad. He was the first runner in Western Reserve's history to gain more than 
1.000 yards in 10 games finishing with 1.229 yards his senior year. His junior year, he was a member of the Ohio AAA football cham­pionship team. 
Browner talked about the initial changes to the defensive backfield. ''The coaches asked me if I wanted to play both offense and defense. But I'll probably stay on defense." 
The first days at the new position confronted Brown<:r with many changes. "On defense," he men­tioned, "I have to make the defensive calls and learn the diffe­rent formations." 
Along with these new duties, he· made some errors. "But ifl made a mistake, the coach (Paul Shoults, defensive secondary coach) would pull me aside and talk to me about it," Browner stated. 
"He's a good coach," he conti­nued. "He'll tell me to ask ifl don't know what to do." 
When looking back, Browner admits that there are some major differences between playing full­back and strong safety. "The major adjustment for me is going from blocking to tackling," he indicated. "As a fullback, you will have to block but as a safety there are more responsibilities. If you call the wrong play and the defense goes the wrong way then it is your fault." 
"On offense, you know who to block all the time," he added. "But on defense, there is more thinking involved. 
Before the opening game with the Pittsburgh Panthers and Tony Dorsett on September 11 this fall, Browner notes that one area in which he will have to improve is man-to-man coverage. "Man-to­man coverage is different than a zone defense," he explained. "I 

*Observer 
Sports 
Valdiserri named ass't AD 
Roger Valdiserri, sports informa­
tion director at Notre Dame, has 
been named assistant athletic di­
rector by Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, 
the University's executive vice 
president. 
While Valdiserri will continue as 
sports information director, his 
expanded role will include duties in 
the area of promotions, administra­
tion of the University's radio and 
television sports programming, 
general administrative duties and 
special assignments within the 
athletic department. 
A 1954 graduate of Notre Dame, 
Valdiserri was an administrative 
assistant in the athletic department 
from 1954 to 1968. Prior to retur­
ning to his alma mater in his 
present position, in 1966 he served 
as public relations director for the 
Kansas City Chiefs professional 
football team. 
Since 1966 he has received ten awards for his Notre Dame sports publications. In the summer of 1973 he was selected as press liaison for the U.S. All-Star basket­ball team touring the People's Republic of China, after perfor­ming the same duties in 1972 for the U.S. fencing team at the Junior World Championships in Spain. 
WGN radio to carry ND football 
CHICAGO (AP) -WGN radio announced Tuesday it has gained exclusive rights to aii11NotreDame football games for the coming season, beginning with the Pitts­burgh game in South Bend on Sept. 11. 
In addition, WGN will broadcast three wild card NCAA games, including the Army-Navy contest. 
Don Criqui will handle the play-by-play and AI Wester will provide the color commentary, WGN said. 
He and his wife, Elaine, have five children: Richard, 21, Kath­leen, 20, Kenneth, 18, Thomas, 16, and Susan, 14. 

want to cover the man better on a  
man-to-man situation because you  
have to follow him all the way  
through. Also I want to be able to  
read the different formations."  
For him, this should not be a big  
problem since he possesses 4.5  
speed in the 40-yard dash. In fact,  
he was a !Jlember of Warren  
Reserve's 880-yard relay team  
which went to the Ohio State high  
school meet 1973.  
Browner attributes his quick­ 
ness, essential for a strong safety,  
to his karate skills. He is a  
second-degree black belt, the first  
degre1~ he earned a little over a  
year ago and the second degree he  
received last summer.  
·'The stretching aspect of karate  
heips me," he said. "And it gives  
you quickness in your hands. Also  
it gives you confidence when you  
hit someone -you don't have to  
worry about him coming after  
you," he said jokingly.  
Although he is spending more  
time with tne defensive unit this  
spring, Browner still works with  
the offensive team at fullback. • • So  
I haven't missed the position that  
much," he observed. Browner,  
who aspires to play pro football,  jim Browner, freshman fullback last season,  will be playing  
spoke of the advantage he will  defense this season.  
have. "My advantage is that l can  smoothly to his new position. He  there will be  a change for the  
go either way so I won't be  ·joins his brother, Ross, who plays  opposing offensive teams this fall - 
depending on one spot," he said.  defensive end. That change Jimmy  there will be  two Browners to  
So Browner has made the change  Browner doesn't mind at all, but  contend with.  

Bt·anning, Hanzlik to attend ND 
Notre Dame basketball coach 1 Hanzlik, the unanimous selection brought with him all-state creden-Digger Phelps announced today for Big Eight Conference Player of tials from his junior season. His that two outstanding basketball the Year, averaged 20 points a 232 points in 12 conference games prospects will enroll at the school game for Beloit High School in led the league and gained him a in the fall. They are 6-3 guard Rich Beloit, Wisconsin, this season. spot on the Wisconsin all-state first Branning and 6-7 swing man Bill Hanzlik transferred to Beloit when team and Parade Magazine's Hanzlik. his family moved back to the city fourth team. Academically, he 
Branning, a first-team All-Amer-from Lake Oswego, Oregon. He carries a 3.8 average on a 4.0 scale. ica selection by Parade Magazine this year. averaged 27.4 points a game as a senior for Marina High 
Lacrosse teams split tilts 
School in Huntington Beach, Cali­

fornia. He set a state record for An injury plagued Notre Dame Hillsdale today at the Sephan most assists in a career and a Lacrosse 'A'team was defeated by Fields at 3 p.m. season with a 7.6 per game a well disciplined Ohio State squad Meanwhile, the 'B' team, was average. Branning made 82 per-Saturday 10-4. The Irish playing savoring the fruits of victory after cent of his free throws, 52 percent without the services of five regulars they shelled the Flying Dutchmen of his field goals and averaged six including co-captain John Fatti, of Hope College, 9-3. Coach Sandy rebounds a game his senior season. never led in the contest which Cochran's stickmen were anticip-
His career scoring high was 43 dropped their season's record to ating concluding their season aga­points. As a junior he was 7-3. Pacing the stickmen with inst the Toledo Rockets, but incl­all-Ieague, all-county, all-state and single markers were midfielders ement weather and a deficient All-American. Branning is an Jay Williams, John Romanelli, Rocket roster forced Toledo to excellent student, carrying a 3.3 ~ark Flanagan ll:nd attack~an Tom forfeit. The team, therefore, average on a 4.0 scale. Bmgle. The sttckmen wtll battle finished with a 3-3 record. 
~:::::::::!:::::::~:~:~:=:~:~:~::::~:::::~:!:!:~:!:!:!:!:~:!::;::!:::~!!!:!!!>.::::::::::::::::::::::::::!:!:!:!:!:!:!:!:!:!:!:!:!:!:!::::::::::~~=====-~~=::::::::::::::...:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!8!:=:::::!:::!::::::::8::::::::::::::
Ernie Torriero Farewell 
::~~~:;~~~:ff~:~fff~~!t~~f:}~~:!~~(~~{e~~~::~~J;fg~~=i=n~:~):j~::~~~~:g~~~~~~:==~=~~=~~1~¥fti~¥~ill=ffitE;l ~~~a!~~~! t~~!!~s~:t 
One is supposed to feel tied to the legend oJf Notre Dame and when the 
bond is broken it is a symbol that death is near. Graduation is associated 
with banishment. 

Some people get upset when I inform them that I used Notre Dame like an estranged lover, using the school's name, education and contacts to further my own gains. For Notre Dame was simply a means to end. There's more to this world than Notre Dame. 
Lately I feel like a man who is jumping off a sinking ship, a tired fighter going down for the final count. A conservative student body, an apathetic group conducting itself in an air of the 1950's, and a tyrannical administration dedicted to the preservation of the Middle Ages, help promote such a feeling. 
Yet I will leave correction of such matters to the brave rebels· of the Observer news department, many of whom can be found reading comic gooks underneath their desRs in LaFortune. For this column is about sports. 
Here then are the highlights of my four years: 
GREATEST THRILL: This is a toss-up between the Sugar Bowl of 1973 . and the UCLA game less than a month later. Looking back on those two events, one realizes the amount of dedication, luck and talent that goes into being the best in any field. 
BIGGEST DISAPPOINTMENT: Maybe because it happened this year, the basketball loss to Michigan stands out. The game was close and if the Irish could have pulled it off, they would have made it to the NCAA finals. 
FAVORITE FOOTBALL COACH: Some coaches yell, others watch and offer suggestions. But Tom Pagna was a professor in the art of football. I used to love to watch Tom Pagna teach football. I have never met a person dedicated to his God, his family, his football and himself, more than Tom Pagna. 
FAVORITE BASKETBALL COACH: One day I was with Dick DiBiaso as he scouted a high school tourney in the ACC. He pointed out what a particular player would do in a certain situation. As if DiBiaso were pulling the strings, the player went ahead and reacted just as DiBiaso said he would. DiBiaso's basketball sense is uncanny. He will bring winning basketball to Stanford. 
FAVORITE MINOR SPORTS COACH: Noel O'Sullivan and Denny Tom Clements is my choice. He could have played varsity basketball here if he choose. 
Stark come to mind here.  Sully is untiring in promoting his golf team.  
Coach Stark's work with  swim programs in the  area  hardly  is  ever  
recognized.  

MOST TALENTED FOOTBALLER: On the field of battle, there were few more talented than Art Best. The first time his hands touched the ball in varsity play, his feet sped him 56 yards into the end zone against Pittsburgh iii 1972. But Art couldn't stay out of trouble. He'll tear up the turf at Kent State. 
MOST TALENTED HOOPSTER: Gary Brokaw was a delight to behold. 
His off-balance jumper was unique.  
MOST TALENTED HOCKEY PLAYER:  Bll  Nyrop,  now  with  the  
Montreal Canadiens, is my choice.  
THE HARD LUCK AWARD:  This goes  to  Gene  Smith  and  Paul  

Linehan. Gene always seems to be getting injured. He has the tools for the making of a great linebacker. Injury cut short the career of Paul Linehan, a running back from Texas who was very talented. There are many more that deserve such an award. 
THE BUM RAP A WARD: The six players who were suspended for dormitory violations get this one. The handling of the situation by University officials is a desgrace to American justice and a violation of the Constitution. 
MOST CHARASMATIC ATHLETE: Brian Walsh could lead the Notre Dame hockey team into a burning building and all would follow. "Dukie" is the most inspirational leader any Notre Dame team has ever had. 
GUTSIEST WRITER: Dave Israel of the Washington Star would rat.!Jer write bad things about the Jews than reveal unrest at Notre Dame. WORST WRITER: Tom Fitzpatrick of the Chicago Sun-Times-always brings out the bad characteristics of the person he is writing about. BEST ANNOUNCER:Marv Albert of New York will someday become the most recognized sportscaster in the land. 
MOST REPULSIVE,ANNOUNCER: Jim Lamply, ABC Sports. BEST LOCAL YOCAL: Sam Smith, WSBT here in South Bend. 
A retired high school coach once said to me, "Son, when you leave this place take a good look at it. Then walk out the door and never, NEVER, look back because there is nothing you will ever want to see here again." 
For those of you who wish to write me nasty letters, I may be found at Northwestern's Medill School of Journalism starting June 21. Just remember, the guy who wrote "Parting is such sweet sorrow" never left. 


