----~~----~----------------~----------------------------~--­

unrversrty of notre dame sl mary's college
Vol. X, No. 92 

Mike Gassman and Mike Casey received 64 per 1976-77 SBP and SBVP. This firm majority ('l'nt of the total vote yesterday to become the eliminated the need for a run-off. (photo by Mike I< ron) 
At SMC commencement 
Brademas to deliver speech 

by Marti Hogan Asst. St. Mary's Editor 

Indiana Congressman John Bra­demas has been invited to deliver the 1976 Commencement Address at St. Mary's College on Saturday, May IS. 
"Congressman Brademas is a felicitous selection for our com­mcnccmcnl speaker," said St. Mary's President John M. Duggan. 
"During his years on the House Education and Labor Committee, Congressman Brademas has play­cd a principal role in helping to write most of the major legislation concerning elementary and secon­dary education, higher education and vocational education." Duggan commented. 
"It is appropriate that we, an institution of higher learning should honor a man who has been such an ardent supporter of educa­tion," Duggan added. 
The decision to invite Brademas, however, has met with consider­able criticism from St. Mary's seniors who pointed out that Brad­
BRADEMAS emas was not on the list of 
suggested speakers that the seni­ors voted on last September. 
"We just got a newsletter saying Congressman Brademas was going to be our commencement speak­er." said Mary Egan, a St. Mary's senior. "They didn't explain it to us. 
According to several seniors it was rumored that Brademas had asked to be the speaker for politcal reasons. 
However, it was the decision of the Academic Affairs Council to invite Brademas, explained Gail Mandell. assistant to the vice-pres­ident of Academic Affairs. 
"We approached him. He didn't ask us," Joan McDermott. student representative to the Academic Affairs Council. said. "We chose Brademas because our chances of getting him were pretty good." 
According to McDermott the three people on the list who had received the most votes were unable to attend because of prior committments. The remaining choices had received such a I,ow 
(continued on page 2) 

Academic Council changes CAP appointment, promotion methods 
by Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief 

The Academic Council voted yesterday to require formal consul­tation among a dean, department chairman and a departmental l"llmmittec on appointments and promotions (CAP) in cases where then· is disagreement over a CAP rcl"Ommcnda lion. 
The Council rc.iected a proposal to establish an appeals procedure to handle cases of differences between a departmental CAP and the president or provost. 
The Council action revises the Academic Manual provisions for all faculty appointments, promotions and tenure. Under current proce­dures, all departments have a committee on appointments and promotions which makes recom­mendations to the department chairman. Both the CAP and the chairman report to the dean on appointment and promotions mat­ters. 
Under current procedures the CAP may not know whether the chairman or dean agrees with its recommendations. The revisions passed by the Council assure that the CAP formally consults with the dean and the chairman when they disagree. 
''The purpose of the revision was to give the CAP a greater voice in the whole tenure and promotion process". said Paul Conway, chairman of the Faculty Senate which proposed the revisions. 
Conway believes the changes make the deans and chairman more accountable to the CAP. "Depart­mental committees should know better than anyone else who should be promoted," he said. 
Fr. James Burtchaell, University provost. believes the major pur­pose of the Faculty Senate proposal was to weaken the authority of the administration in appointments, promotions and tenure;: matters. 
"The purpose was really to weaken the Administration. mean­ing to include the deans, the provost and the president." Bur­tchaell said. 
During the Council meeting, Burtchaell released figures from academic year 1974-75 which noted that 97 per cent of the CAP recommendations were approved by the department chairmen. deans and provost. In only ten cases were CAP recommendations on ap­
(continued on page 7) 


Gassman-Casey elected SBP-SVBP 
by Ken Bradford Copy Editor 
Mike Gassman and Mike Casey 

overwhelmed their two opposing 
tickets yesterday and secured a 
resounding victory in the student 
body elections. 
Gassman and Casey received 

2,062 votes, well over the simple 
majority necessary to avoid a 
run-off election. Tim Boyle and 

Peter Gaa placed second with 590 
votes and Mike Sweigert and Bill 
Walsh received 535 votes. 
In getting over 64 per cent of the total vote, Gassman carried every hall except Grace and St. Edward's halls. The Gassman ticket also won a simple majority of the votes in 18 of the 22 voting districts. 
Gassman's greatest support came from his home hall, Stanford. where he received 231 votes, 92 per cent of the hall's total. Pangborn, Casey's home hall, provided the winners with 160 votes. Four other halls chose the Gassman ticket by near -80 per cent margins. 
Voter turnout was also best in Stanfrord and Pangborn --both halls had 88 per cent of their residents vote. Alumni Hall's participation was 80 per cent. 
Only 141 off-campus students voted --about ten per cent voter participation. Overall voter parti­cipation 49 per cent. 
The Boylc-Gaa ticket showed sur­prising strength in winning in St. Edward's and Grace, Gaa's home hall. Sweigert and Walsh also did their best in Grace but were unable to win any halls. 
Gassman, a junior, was a candi­date in last year's student body elections but his ticket was elimin­ated in the primary. In that election, he finished third among eight candidates but carried four halls. 
Casey, also a junior, was not a candidate in last year's elections but served as Pangborn Hall presi­dent this year. 
Gassman and Casey attributed their victory to a superior campaign organ\zation and to the hard work of their campaign workers. Gas­sman said he had over 90 people working for him in the dormitories and had influential hall leaders -­like hall presidents --spreading his name around. 
Gassman said his platform was based on their experience in camp­us government, and he said this was the only real issue in the campaign. Gassman received most of his name-recognition from his leadership in a struggle with the University administration over the calendar issue. 
Casey agreed that the key to the election was in "getting the right people to work their tails off for us.'' 

Casey added that the Observer endorsement may have helped in increasing their margin of victory. "The endorsement helped by get­ting our some of the people who normally might not vote," he said. 
The losing candidates agreed that it was the Gassman-Casey cam­paign organization which decided the election. 
"The Observer endorsement could not have made much dif­ference in the election," Sweigart 
stated.  "Gassman was just  too  
well organized."  
Walsh  said  his  ddt:<tl  in  the  

election did not represent a reject­ion of his ticket's platform. "There really wasn't anv difference in till' platforms," Walsh said. "Mr. Gassman succeeded in cstabli~hing one issue --his experience in Student Govc'rnment." 
Only time will tell if "experience in leadership" is a valid lTill'rion for selecting a student body pres­ident. Walsh said. 
Boyle, who campaigned with the slogan "I may he crazy but J' m not stupid". said he was ·pleased with his showing in the election. "This prov~s that everybody here is not as straight-laced as most people think." 
The voting statistics: 

-----~­
-~---------­
....l 
= ~ 
AL 
BP 
CA 
Dl FA Fl FL GR HC HO KE LE LY MO PA SE SJ so ST WA ZA oc Total 

1il t: rJl 
....l
E ,.., ~..c 

....l<
Qj 

....l~
;:.= ·-~-; "' 

~5 c8\.!i ..,~ ~~ 
lOS 44 76 225 99 8 20 127 75 21 6 102 113 28 18 159 99 14 12 125 75 7 7 89 137 52 20 209 88 102 91 281 48 21 24 93 84 24 19 127 147 44 26 217 Ill 23 35 161) 58 10 28 96 93 19 25 137 160 17 13 190 39 43 12 94 10 1 I 12 44 25 IS 84 
231 13 6 250 
102 5 21 128 76 28 28 132 68 41 32 141 
2062 590 535 3187 

South Bend's historic leeper Park still shows traces of snow. Will Spring never come? (photo by Mike I< ron) 
the observer 

-On Campus Today---...... 
--panel discussion, "america : a radical future?,"
10 a.m. 

· by harvey cox, sheldon gellar, carl estabrook, lib. aud. 
11:15 a.m. --lecture, "a technical fore front of exploration," all majors without conflects are requested to attend, rm 101, geo bldg. 
2 p.m. --panel discussion, "college to career," rm 243 madeleva. 
--lecture "offshore drilling for oil: it's past
2:45p.m. 

history ~nd future potential," rm 127 nieuwland 
3:30p.m. --computer course, "cobol," rm. 115 comp. ctr. 
4:30p.m. --lecture,"income inequality: causes and cures," by lester thruow, lib. aud. 
4:30p.m --music forum, "ives' symphony #4," by jose serabrier, little theater 
--seminar', "insect viruses," by dr. john paschke, rm. 278 gal. aud. 
--meeting, geology majors, discussion of job 4:30 p.m. 
7 p.m. possibilities, rm. 127 nieuwland 
7 p.m. --meeting, photo club, 121 o'shaugh., new members invited 
7:30p.m. --meeting, charismatic prayer, Iafortune rathskel­ler 
7:30p.m. --lecture, "transcendental meditation, an introduction", spons. by students international meditation society, lib. lounge 
8 p.m. --boxing, bengal bouts, ace arena 
--lecture, "american women in history," by prof. 8 p.m. carole moore, lib. aud. 
--film, jules and jim," eng. aud., $1 
--pep rally, for nd-smc women's basketball game,10 p.m. 
farley basement 

Seniors surprised by Brademas as speaker 
(continued from page 1) number of votes that they didn't warrant being considered, McDermott added. 
"We literally had no choice," commented Terry Kerley, another senior. "Even our senior class officers didn't know of the decision until a little note appeared outside of Dr. Duggan's office." 
''Time was close and a decision had to be made,'' McDermott said, explainingwhy seniors were not involved with or informed of the decision. 
Brademas, in his ninth term as third district representative, is a me111ber of the Board of Regents at St. Mary's and he was formerly ari assistant professor of political sci­ence at the college. He now serves as Chief Deputy Majority Whip on the House Education and Labor Committee, where he is chairman of the Select Education Subcommit-
Tourney to begin on Tues., Mar. 2 
The CAUSE (Cooperative Activi­ties Uniting Students and Elderly) sponsored arm wrestling tourna­ment will begin Tuesday, March 2. The purpose of the tournament is to raise funds for the painting and renovation of housing for those elderly living alone and for various nursing homes. Proceeds will also go towards a White Sox game this spring for both the aged and students. 
Hall recreation directors will begin accepting sign-ups today until the tournament begins. There is a one dollar entry fee. 
The Obserller is published Nalday through Friday a1d ~kly during the surTITll!r session, except during the exams a1d vacation periods. The Qbsenler is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Darre a1d St. Mary's College. Subsaiptions may be purchased for $18 ($10 per semester) tro-n The Obser\ler, Box Q, Notre Dame, lndia1a 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

tee on Postsecondary Education. 
Although McDermott stated that she is sure that Brademas will not make a political speech, Egan, along with many other seniors still believes "They should have asked us " 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Martha Fanning Asst. Night Editor: Chris Smith layout Staff: Bill Rivard Day Editor: Don Reimer Copy Reader: Don Reimer Editorials: -Jim Eder Features: Gregg B. Bangs Sports: Bill Brink 
Typists: Tess Clemens, Karen Hinks, H.H. Night Control.ler: Howard Halle 
SIGN-UP 





SLC finals tomorrow 
by Ken Bradford Copy Editor 

Elections will be necessary in all three voting districts of the Student Life Council (SLC) after no candi­date received a majority vote in yesterday's primary. 
Jeff Simnick and peter Haley will battle for the South Quad seat and Len Moty and John Steinman will vie for the Off-Campus seat. Mary Charchut and Ed Van Tassel reached the Wednesday election 
without  oppostion  for  the  North  
Quad seat.  
Simnick  and  Haley  eliminated  

Pat Russell from the South Quad race by collecting 42 and 32 per cent of the quad vote, respectively. 
Simnick carried nine of the 14 halls on his quad in receiving his 614 votes. Haley carried only three halls but received 102 of his 469 votes in Alumni, his home hall. Russell carries two halls, including his home hall of Dillon, but finished well out of the race with 364 votes. 
In the off-campus elections, Moty and Steinman moved to the run-offs by defeating Tom Digan and John Kinney. Steinman collec­ted 51 votes, Moty got 48, Digan got 24 and Kinney got 13. 
No off-campus candidate receiv­ed more than four per cent of the total off-campus contingent. 
Elections chairman peter Gott­sacker said the SLC run-offs will be Wednesday at the same times and locations as the primary balloting. 
Gottsacker added that his com­mittee's attempts to increase off­campus student participation in the elections have proved fruitless. The committee had extended off-
ND marriages termed 'remarkably stable' 
Despite a rising national divorce rate, the marraiges of Notre Dame alumni are remarkably stable, ac­cording to a recent survey of the University's graduates, 
The average divorce-separation rate for Notre DAme's undergrad­uate alumni is only 5.6 per cent. Ninety-three per cent of Notre Dame's graduates are still living with their first spouse, and slightly more than 1 per cent are living alone or have remarried after the death of their first spouse. 
The divorce-separation rate is the lowest for the marraiges of two Notre Dame alumni--3.3 per cent-­and only slightly higher for mar­raiges between Notre Dame alumni and graduates of nearby Saint Mary's College--3.8 per cent. Eight per cent of alumni first marriages to spouses . without a college education have been foun­dered, compared to 4.9 per cent of those to spouses graduated from institutions other than Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
In terms of religious affiliation, the divorce-separaton rate is low­est--4.4 per cent--for Catholic a­lumni of Notre Dame and higher for alumni having other religious affil­iations or none. 
Women's B-ball pep rally tonight 
A pep rally will be held tonight for the Notre Dame women's basketball team in preparation of their game with St. Mary's on Wednesday. Featured speakers include Head Coaches Jeanne Earley and Sally Duffy, co-captains Mary Clemency, Patti Coogan and Becky Banasiak. The rally will begin at 10 p.m. in the basement of Farley. 

CAMPUS MINISTRY OFFICE 
Some 3,800 persons, about 66 per cent of a scientifically con­structed sample of Notre dame's 44,000 undergraduate alumni, re­sponded to the survey question­naire, and complete results will be published in the June Notre Dame Magazine. 
campus voting hours, but the turnout did not improve. "The off-campus delegate seat in the SLC may be in danger if· the off-campus students don't show a greater interest," he warned. 
This year's election proceeded without any major compalints from candidates about campaigning vio­lations, Gottsdacker said. He credited the Ombudsman Office, the hall co-ordinators and commit­tee members Margo Pallardy, Tim O'Connell and Tim Cawley with doing an extremely efficient job in the ballot handling this time. 
JULIO'S 
NOW HAS 
PAN 

·PIZZA!!! 
PHONE 232-791 3 

!!!!!!~·~~·-·-·-----------., 
~ 78 ~jl I
presents 

I JULES AND JIM I 
I I 
1 TUES. AND WED. FEB. 24 & 25 I 
I I I ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM . I I ADMISSION ---­
$1.00 ~--... 
L-------------------------~
THE NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 
announces auditions for GODSPELL by Tebelek and Schwartz 
Singing Auditions: Sun. Feb. 29 at 1:00 P.M. and 7:00 P.M. Washington Hall Stage
Acting Auditions: N-~Jn. March 1 at 6:00 P.M. Washington Hall Lab Theatre (Use Rear Stairway) To be considered for a role everyone rrust attend both singing and acting auditions. M.Jsical preparation is required. Audition m:rterials available at Room 110, Moreau Hall 
.................... : ATTENTION : iALL STUDENTS i 
: There are a few : : seats available for : :the Senior Trip to :
•
:Freeport, Bahamas.: • : Contact any Senior : : Class Officer (7308) : 
Tuesday, February 24, 1976 
the observer 

Bicentennial lecturer foresees changes in American religion 
by Terry Keeney EdJtor-in-Chlef synagogues. These movements
may be incompatible with capital­ism. Christian doctrine, along with 
provide greater community, great­Popular religious movements in er discipline, and a clearer concept 
the fast growth of Christianity in the Third World, especially in
the 1970's have failed to provide a of authority than conventional re­
Africa, may produce stresses with
radical critique of American poli­ligion.
capitalistic structures and bring
tical and economic structures, Har­Cox blames the American adap­
about radical changes. 
vey Cox, Harvard University theo­tation of Oriental religious beliefs, logian, said last night. and not the beliefs themselves, for
Cox defined the choice American These popular movements, bas­Christianity must now face. "Will the lack of political concern among 
we move even more toward more
ed on oriental religions and conser­their followers today. For example, 
privatistic, even escapist, form of
vative evangelism, are "the opiate American versions of Buddhism 
religion?" he asked. "Or will we
of the masses" and suffer "almost accept the Oriental Buddhist notion 
move in a direction in which the
complete political blindness", Cox of detachment, but reject theHarvey Cox, speaking in the first of the American Radicalism lectures. 
Church provides a core in which we
said. notion that the self or ego does not(Photo by Mike Kron) call into question capitalism, profit, 
•'The thing that seems to be exist. 
imperial domination and the other
missing from most of these groups "When the Buddhist vision be­
directions America has come in?"
is any sense of crisis that exists in comes imported to the United 
Cox said that religious move­
Reporter suspended for 
America,'' Cox told an audience of States. something happens which 
ments in America's past have
150 in Washington Hall. makes it the opiate of the people,·'
provided prophetic challenges to
He cited the Biblical tradition of Cox said. American nco-Oriental 
the political system. He cited the
release of secret reports 
the prophets who often called into followers are thus "transmuted bv 
abolitionists "who confronted
question the political power of the the American capitalistic society . .-. 
people with the moral impossibility 
NEW YORK AP -·CBS newsman The report, still classified as monarch or emperor. This tradi­Nco-Oriental religions have 
of being Christian and a slave­
Daniel Schorr. who has admitted secret, was published in two parts tion of involvement in political great potential for providing an 
holder" and the 19th century
releasing a secret House intellig­by the Voice. Much of what was in affairs is missing in the more alternative to the American econo­
idealists who established alterna­
gence report to a weekly newspa­the report already had been repor­inner-directed nco-Oriental reli­mic system, Cox said. For exam­per, was indefinitely suspended ted by Schorr and others. gions and in evangelism. tive communities, such as Robert ple, the Buddhist view work not as 
Owen's New Harmony, Indiana.
from reporting duties by the net­"I decided," Schorr said in a Cox opened the three-day lecture the means to generate income in a work on Monday. public statement last week, "that series "The American Future: A Cox argued that hundreds of capitalistic society, but as a value 
Schorr admitted releasing the with much of the contents already Radical Perspective'', which com­thousands of Americans have turn­in itself. report prepared by the House known I could not be the one memorates the national Bicenten-ed to nco-oriental or evangelical Protestant evangelism has also committee on intelligence opera­responsible for supressing the re­nail. -faiths because they offer experien­produced some radical critiques of tions of the government to the port.'' According to Cox, Christianity tial values not found in churches or American society. Village Voice, a weekly published in New York's Greenwich Village. 
CBS, in a statement released by President Richard Salant. noted shop \HE * ·,;1i NOW OFFERING 10 & IS%
that government investigations 
a\\~\>OC)'t~~I>INt; CQ it / ~ ~\ ~ 
have been called for to see if Schorr can be prosecuted for releasing the DISCOUNTS ON secret report. 
"In view of the adversary situa­100 o:~u~~~;~;v ~ '/~, CASES OF WINE/liQUOR.
tions in which Dan Schorr is placed in pending government investiga­tions, he has agreed with CBS that RENTAL ; f}~s r
I 
HOURS:

he will be relieved of all reporting duties for an indefinite period," $6.00 DAY ~:;v~
"Y' 
MON-SAT 

Salant's statement said. 
$8.00 WEEKEND ~ ~--­
-schorr was not immediately avail-9:30 -MIDNIGHT
Freeon Wednesd it ,
able for comment. ;~!~!~~~~~~!
It said the network would provide l;j !::;::=::::i::::::=::::::=t it I
itCATERING
legal counsel to Schoor "insofar as ... 
FREE 

investigations relating to his CBS 
KEN'S DEN 
news activities are concerned" and said the network "will fully support Mr. Schorr against attempts to --HAlR STYliNG -­require him to reveal the source through which he obtained the MEN & WOMEN report. These aspects of the matter involve fundamental issues of press 
ACROSS FROM l 00 CENTER 
freedom." 
The House has ordered its Ethics (LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA) Committee to investigate the leak of its report and determine if any PHONE 255-6500 action should be taken against 
APPOINTMENTS PREFERRED
Schorr. The Justice Department 
indicated it was also considering a 
probe. 
Moore to talk on women in history 
Dr. Carole Moore, an assistant professor of History at Notre Dame will speak on "Women in American History" tonight at 8 p.m. in the LibraryAuditorium. This talk is the second in a series of presentations sponsored by the Notre Dame Advisory Council of Women Stu­denmts. 
The purpose of these presenta­tions is to provide an opportunity for the students, faculty and ad­ministrators to gain exposure to the talents, educational backgrounds and experiences of various promi­nent women at Notre Dame. 

:::>ue to some criticisms that our oomic strip is male chauvanistic, trtte, high­school oriented, too many big words, too many words, not serious enough, this strip therefore is for the romantic, sincere, serious hearts on campus. 
Remember tonight American Band­stand at the library. 7-10, $.25 beers, 10-1 pitchers for$1.00, and $.50 rnbced drinks all night. Also The library will be giving away some T-shirts and other gifts. Check us out. 
DELIVERY

~SPECIALLY ~YO THE (with $15.00 minimum purchase.)
it ND·SMC it COMMUNITY PHONE: 259-0261
t ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• +•• 
.············~..·~·~.....,.
•
+...w 

Budweiser®
• ....J
•a 

·~ ~eagles~ 
+::3 

tP ~oritl 
~ 

·~ CD 100 CENTER COMPLEX 
00.

...... CD 
any regular ~ OFF priced item 
with this ad.
~ 

BUSCH® MICHELOB® A&Eagle 

-----~--~
~~--~ 
*1n§d.QJ2,~~r,ver
Founded November 3, 1966 

EDITORIAL BOARD
The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported AI Rutherford Managing Editor as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent 
Jim Eder Executive Editor 
the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­

Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor
mentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, 

Bob Mader News Editorcartoons and regular columns express the views of their Maureen Rynn Campus Editor
authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor expression of varying opinions on campus. Ken Bradford Copy Editor 
Val Zurblis Wire Editor Editorials: 28>-1715 News: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Tom O'Neil Features Editor Business Manager Tom Modglin Bill Brink Sports Editor Advertising Manager Tom Whelan Dan Sand'lez Senior Night Editor 
Tuesday, Fflbruary 24, 1976 
..J 

Outside Radicals 
This week there is a group of outside the root assumptions of the status quo. This is agitators on campus. They are radicals from valuable for those of us who are inclined to go around the oountry who have oome here to along with the ways things are, not thinking push their radical ideas in celebration of a about underlying principles by which we guide 
violent revolution. They should be weloome. our lives. Radicals can challenge us to re-examine our usual thinking. 
These radicals are speaking here as part of a oonference devoted to "The American FUture: Hour assumptions tum out to be wrong then A Radical Perspective'' which is an unofficial we can oorrect them. H they tum out to be part of Notre Dame's celebration of the right then by affirming them as our own 
Bicentennial of the Revolution. Armng them carefully oonsidered beliefs we will not be are theologian Harvey Cox, political scientist 
ape-like imitators of those around us but free
Fln.ley Campbell (a oolleague of Angela Davis and oonscious human beings. on the National Committee Against Racism) and eoonomist Lester Thurow (one of McGov­'Times and places for the radical speakers are ern's 1972 eoonomic advisors). 
posted around campus. Go listen to some of
those outside agitators, especially if you are The term''radical'' is derived from the latin oonfident of your beliefs and know the agitators for "root" and these radicals are questioning will anger you. Dare to be disturbed. 
P.O.Box Q 
To give an example, one rector in Fathers of the dorms! ... do you mind decided to assert even realize what you have done? .Fathers ..trying to change the lifestyles of 
his first show of power by expelling from "His" hall a student on 
these young men! ... Do you really grounds of numerous parietal viola­believe that these imposed changes 
of the are for their better? ... or are you
tions and miscellaneous accusa­tions of "deviant" behavior that 
voluntarily blind to their ways of literally insulted the intelligence of life with yours--due to your pact
Dorms 

the accused. How can someone with its many virtuous abstentions. acting in the name of God possibly make such a thoughtless decision But we know where we stand, Dear Editor: as that? ... and on a rumor basis! don't we? As mere students at this Maybe that rector should take a uiversity we have absolutely no say This letter is not meant to insult good look at himself before he so relative to these matters, nor any or degrade, blaspheme any reli­eagerly passes false witness on his chance of asserting ourselves over gious figures on campus; we mere­neighbor. a rector. Therefore, we can only ly wish to point out an exceptionally review these sad incidents, finding ludicrous assumption on their part. We might also point out another ourselves defenseless against the We are refering to the ''I am Godly, case of equally appalling behavior authoritative measures imposed. what I say is the Word" syndrome which had much more serious Let's be realistic about this now-­which ur.fortunately has victimized consequences. The victim in we're dealing with an entity vs. 
some of the priests, in particular question here was not merely identity problem. We think more the hall rectors on this campus. expelled from his living quarters, attention should be focused on this Several incidents have come to our but was given an involuntary leave aspect of on-campus life. This is 
attention this past academic year of absence from our entire com­the purpose of our letter to the where conflicts of lifestyles' bet­munity. This too was the result of editor ... we're bummed. ween students and rectors has rumored misbehavior, similar in impelled some rectors to decisions nature to that of our other victim R.C. DiLeo carable of inducing vomit. described above. K. J. Lynch 

DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

serl·0 us ly, fo Iks 
Lockhe e d K • k b k 1 1 0 0 
1C aC 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiart 
buchwald 
Washington-Lockheed Aircraft has just developed a new supersonic Bribe that can fly two times the speed of sound. The Bfibe, which took 10 years to get off the drawing board, is called the Kickback 1100. Lockheed salespeople are claiming it is the most modern, versatile Bribe vehicle of its kind. 
One of the people involved in the project told me in strictest confidence the Kickback 1100 can carry a payload of up to $10 million to any corrupt official in the world. 
"Northrop Corp. doesn't have anything to compare with it," he said proudly. 
"How does it differ from the Bribe vehicles of the past?" 
"Speed for one thing," he said. "We can now Bribe an Italian general in three and a half hours, whereas it took us seven hours to get the bag to him in the past." 
"Boy, what will you space people think of next?" I said. 
"The Kickback also has special navigational equipment which is so accurate it can land $1 million on a Swiss bank vault with less than a 10-foot ceiling." 
"You say it, but can you do it?" 
"We did the other day. An African high government official asked us for $1 million to okay a contract for several of our air buses. He gave us the name and the number of a Swiss bank account. The Kickback 1100 took off from Nassau and landed in Geneva in a safe at three o'clock the next morning. The African official was so pleased he ordered another Kickback for his brother." 
My informant who had too many drinks or he never would have talked so much said, "The old defense Bribes were too noisy. Everyone heard about them. We told our engineers to completely redesign the Bribe so no one would recognize it. We wanted a model that would be smooth, fast, safe and so quiet that nobody in 
Congress could complain about the sound. It also had no odor.  The  
worst thing about a Bribe is that it eventually smells fishy."  
"That  must  have  been  a  tall  order  for  the  research  and  
development people."  

"We underestimated the cost of what it would take to develop a new Kickback by $40 million." 
"How did you get the money to make up for the overrun?" 
"We took several people from the Pentagon to our duck hunting club and explained the problem." "That was good thinking. It's hard for a guy in a duck blind to say no to someone who has an overrun." 
''Anyhow, we now have all the bugs out of the Kickback 1100 and we predict it will be the Bribe of the future. Everyone wants one. We have an order for three from a Japanese war criminal in Tokyo. He wants his painted gold. A South American president has asked for one decorated in German marks, and a member of a European royal family wants his covered with Dutch guilders." 
"Some senators have complained about the dangers of the Kickback particularly as it's related to the ozone level. Are you certain the new Lockheed Bribe can stand an environmental study?" I asked. 
''I'm certain of it. We tested our Bribes against those of France and England and many other foreign aviation companies. Not only were our Kickbacks larger and more comfortable but we have a five-year guarantee behind them. You don't have to take my word for it. Ask any· Arab prince in the Middle East." 
~----------------------------------------~~----------------------------------------------------------------­
-

Tuesday, Feb.ruary 24, 197b the observer 
the search for god leads to a retreat 
christie herlihy 

Within each one of us is a yearning for celebration. The urge to "grab all the gusto you can,·' goes back to our caveman ancestors. Though in these sophisticated times we may not dance around the t•amptirc in bear skins after a victorious hunt, we do the next best thing--swarm onto the basketball lloor, screaming, yelling with toilet paper llying, to cut down the nets. We measure our lives by blowing out camlles, drinking toasts, passing out cigars, serving the turkey and the dress­ing. 
When there is a party in the air, we are sparked with anticipation. Work becomes less burdensome for soon we will have some mental relief. We look forward to being with friends and our minds wonder, considering who we'llmect, what we'll talk about, and the food and drink that we'll pass around together. 
What makes a good party'! No doubt some morning after you have kicked this around with your roommate and discovered that the night before was an experience shared with others; you recall a certain warmth, a fraternity the next morning and when you see those friends again. 
In just this same intimate way, the Partners-In-Dialogue retreat at Old Col­lege. Jan. 25 became a sharing experience. 
It was a celebration which sprang from retlecting on the Eucharist as a celebra­tion. Father John Gallen and his staff from the Murphy Center of Liturgical Research, as well as Sr. Jane Pitz campus ministry staff gathered with interested students early Sunday morning downstairs in the kitchen. 
Entering Old College is like going back home, coming in from the snow and cold and then twisting down the narrow staircase to the warm kitchen below to where all the laughter is. But when I entered the kitchen, and saw people in sweaters clustered around the coffee urn, gathered around the yellow contact paper­ed table, munching powdered doughnuts, sipping coffee, laughing, and talking, I felt uneasy ... (l don't know anyone here, is this the right place?) I got a cup of coffee and then recognized faces from the dining hall, my theology class, Father Toohey, and good old Sister Jean. We carried our coffee upstairs and sat in a large circle, leaning our backs against the wood paneled walls or proping ourselves on pillows. Father Gallen introduced the discussion by defining what is meant by "celebration". How gathering for a reason gives an inner meaning which carries on after the party's over. He then read off lists of names, separating us into small groups and I was dissappointed that I was not with the only two people I knew. 
As the others left for different rooms, mv group materialized. Sr. Cathline Hughe"s welcomed us and said that we would learn each others names in the course of the 
records 
the tufano and giammarese band: 
-----who are these guys? 
Like most other papers, the OBSERVER 

procures the records it reviews from a 
variety of sources. This year, the most 
common source has been sev"eral local 
record dealers who give us access to new 
releases in exchange for some sort of 
recognition in the article. Quite often, the 
reviewer will just get a record on his won 
out of personal interest. This is the second 
most common source. 
Record companies also supply us witl1 

promotional copies, not unlike they do a 
radio station. Unfortunately, they usually 
seem to send all the good albums to WSND 
and supply us with nothing worthwhile. At 
least, that's the way it usually is. This year 
the OBSERVER has been proud to pick up 
such classics as Bible Music of the Old 
Testament, The Greatest Hits of Shock and 
Musical Themes of the Late Fifties. 
Sometimes we get lucky--somebody 

must have made a mistake when they sent 
us Carole King's Thoroughbred. Or very 
rarely, one of the new "artists" they send 
you will turn out to be more than a burnt 
out politician, ex-footbaH player or Indian 
snake charmer. This did not originally 
seem to be the case when an album titled 
The Tufano and Giammarese Band showed 
up. The album was recorded in Canada 
and the band looks very streetwise in the 
album shots so it looked like we were 
dealing with a bunch of Canadian hit men 
or the Italian Doobie Brothers. 
However, th·e album got more than the usual once over, probably because it came in the same packet as Carole King's album and Joan Baez's newest release. For the sake of these two artists, it is safe to say they would not be embarrassed by the presence of the Tufano and Giammarese Band (TGB)--as a matter of fact, they might be quite pleased for this group offers a very listenable, pleasant brand of music. 
To answer the.obvious question of "Who are these guys?". the TGB is a five man band if you go by the album shot and a six man group if you read the credits. All discrepancies aside, they are led by lead guitarist and vocalist Carl Giammarese and Dennis Tufano, who also sings lead vocals in addition to playing guitar and key­boards. These two also write all of the groups original material. They co­authored every song on the album except for a pleasant redoing of J. Holvay's "Kind Of a Drag." 
Tufano and Giammarcse write songs that accent their vocal harmonies. The instrumentation is geared to compliment the vocals and act as tiller between the singing. It is never meant to be overhearing. However, Jack Richardson's production work is so llawless, that one linds himself (herself) admiring the overall sound of the songs instead of concentrating on one aspect. This tends to make each song flow into the next and seems to make the album's playing time fly by. This might be one reason why the production work can be called "too slick," for it seems concentrated on overall presentation in­stead of catering to the individual cuts. This concept is really quite welcome, for so many first albums are a collection of possible singles with garbage inbetween. 
This is not to say that there aren't any standout songs on the disc for the TGB offers quite a few different types of songs within their basic framework. The opening cut, "Let in the Light," starts with an Italian sounding guitar that provides a quick pace for. Tufano's throaty vocal. The song actually sounds a little schmaltzy when orchestration is added at the end. Regardless, the song starts the album off on an upbeat. 
"Heartbreak" sounds like its off the Doobie Brother album Stampede. Tufano plays a Billy Payne ragtime piano through­out and it blends perfectly with Giam­marese's background guitar solos to pro­duce a hard driving song. 
"Gone like the Wind" is the antithesis of "heartbreak". It is a regular old-fashioned 

love song with lyrics like: 

IT MAY BE A DAY IT MAY BE A YEAR BUT I KNOW THAT I'LL SEE YOU AGAIN 
Giammarese's lead singing and Tufano's harmony sound so sincere that the ortho­dox lyrics come to life and make you feel for the singer. This mood is helped and promoted by some very pretty synthesizer work which seems to underline the sincerity of the singers. Tufano and Marty Grebb combine on keyboards throughout the album and are more of a force than Giammarese's guitar. This makes sense because keyboards always seem to com­pliment vocals better than guitars. Since this is what the TGB is after, one can see 
gregg b. bangs 
why the guitar is not the main instrument 
in most songs. 

The two songs where the guitar is 
featured depend on it enormously. 
"Honest Man" is a common man's 
complaint against the rigors of society. 
Giammarese's cutting, blarin"g solos seem 
to represent the anger held against soc1ety. 
It is responsible for the bitter quality of the song. A completely different kind of solo predominates "Summer Night." The song is an· excellent dance song that is moved along by an Isaac Hayes guitar solo off of "Shaft." This mixes with an acoustic guitar and orchestration to produce what sounds like a lavishly produced disco sound. 
The only cut not written by T & G is "Kind of a Drag." The pace is slowed down, orchestration is added along with a very effective sax solo and Giammarese sings yet another emotional, but believable vocal. The song was once relegated to the classic pop list--this version makes it to the classy pop list. 
The best two songs are both on side two and they also happen to be the best produced. "Times Change" is once again based on the vocal harmonies of T & G which are, once again, excellent. However, the highlight of the song is the way the instrumentation is perfectly coordinated so all the parts compliment each other. Both an acoustic and electric guitar are featuredf and they mix perfectly with Grebb's sax solo and the congas of Darryl Wilson. This is all backed by orchestration and Tufano's synthesizer. Each is heard, but none takes away from the other. It is perfectly mixed. 
"Hypnotizen-love" is sung by a man who professes to be in a daze when he is not with his lover. Therefore, the lyrics sound somewhat at a distance except at the chorus which is clear because he sees his lover at that moment. An excellent guitar solo ensues because it intensifies the mood of the song by remaining distant a:1d removed. A variety of percussion instru­ments are used to also keep this mood: a sandpaper block gives the impression that someone is sleeping. Once again, fine arrangements make this song. 
Perhaps this group does have a few things going against it. It is very unknown and the lack of promo material sent along with the disc I isn't going to help any. Whatever, with a name like the Tufano & Giammarese Band and the brand of fine music they play, this group could become something. They deserve to. 
Well, back to the second volume of Bible Music of the Old Testament. 
compliments of ode records 
discussion. But then she asked a very intimate question: Have you ever experi­enced a time when you felt the presence of God in your life? She assured us there wa!-. no expected response. Some mav have "been to the mountain", others un!>un· if their experience was divinely inspired. We reflected on this a while, supplied with white tablets and pencils in case we wanted to jot down our thoughts. 
My pad \\as hlnnk. When had lever felt God in my life? I had heard no voiL'l'' from the depths of my study carrel that I could liken to "Here Samuel!" ~n that I could respond with, '"Here I am Oh. Lnrd!". had stayed in many Saturda.' nighh but felt no urge to '"take up and read"' a 
, biblical pas~age like SL Augu,tinc. 
But yet I do fcclc!o.,cr to God \nmc!Hl\1. l"ve noticed more and more that I 1·an almost say that I lm-e Him. in ~orne mysterious way love someone I can't ~L'<". But how has thb come about"! 
I know that !>incc mv childlwod 1\c lmL·d to be out-of-door!-.. A-lthough l"m a rctirLd trechousc builder and ~culptm of mud. l"m still in~pircd by !-.UilSl"h. Driving baL·k from a day of sailing with a ~umml'r 'lith<"! in mv rear view mirror ha!> cau!-.ed man1· potcr"Jtial an·idents. !love to takl· ll'i\UI"L"h walks w;ttchin!! the !>unset over frot<"ll '-.t. Marv's lake. Then I turn to admirl' the 1\'a\ sno1~· nestles in the firs and powder!-. th~· rocks of the grotto. the bec!>wax l"arHlles tlickcring with crisp light. And when I sec this beauty which gives such simple joy to mv senses I feel verv naked, unworthv to behold these manifesiations of some divine lover. Now I could understand the "leap of faith" which the Danish philosopher Kierkegaard spoke about. the bursting joy described in the Old Testament--pouring wine into an old wine skin. 
I kept staring at my blank pad. My eyes wandered around the room as I noticed my fellow students seated in the circle, writing gazing up at the ceiling. How had they experienced God? Was my experi­
·---------­
"I could talk to someone 
about God. 

Break down the barriers, 
looking into their e~es." 

ence like theirs? How will they receive me
·----------1
when I narrate mine. One student. Mike, broke the silence finally as he described the joy he exp_erienced at an intimate Mass with some friends. He finished. I felt it mv turn. I blurted out my thoughts feeling my face redden as I noticed some staring at me, others shifting on pillows, but it was soon over. I felt so relieved. But for all of my false starts and redness, I discovered that others had shared similar experi­ences--Jim, camping in the Rocky moun­tains, Cathy, walking back from the library 
'in the snow. I felt so relieved. I could talk to someone about God. Breaking down the barriers, looking into their eyes. 
Although we talked excitedly and got to know ourselves better, the aroma of melted cheese and ham submarines became too much too much and we went downstairs to share lunch together. There was much Polish joke bantering going around. I fell for the Polock of the Year award. a joke trick which didn't fool Father Gallen. It was great to be back together again and to share what other group's had discussed. 
The lightheartedness at lunch contrasted with the solemn private reflection which followed. Some played the guitar, others, like me, took a walk in the snow, hut all of us concentrated on a gospel passage from St. Mark, the one in which Jesus says "Con.1; after me; I will make you fishers ·of men. 
Once reunited we discussed what makes a Mass meaningful, joyful, one of celebra­tion. And with these thoughts in mind we created our own Mass. Father Gallen led us in a discussion of the gospel reading, we shared the sign of peace, and then hurried through the snow, carefully carrying the wine and protecting the loaf of bread, to the log chapel. Father Gallen. said the consecration and then he, who had been with us all day, eating, joking and discussing broke the bread and gave it to each one of us. We passed the cup around with those to whom we had confessed very intimate thoughts. We felt the warmth of the wine. We felt bonded together. We experienced the Eucharist together. We celebrated. 

~--~~~~~~~------~-­

'Making it' favored in COUL report 
l 
l l 
l 
I 
l t 
mendation: "We feel ·that the opportunity for this type of discus­sion at Notre Dame is far too limited. We would like to see .this experience offered on a large scale to those students who are interest­ed because this type of sharing of mutual problems and concerns will promote understanding and growth in areas where it has heretofore been seriously lacking." 
The program was thus expanded this year, explained Mary Claire McCabe. Director of Student Dev­elopment. Students Jack Kasel, Sue LeFevre and Chris Datzman revamped the format making the atmosphere less formal and the talk more spontaneous. 
·'The students do · not feel 
threatened by the authority of 
parents or faculty or by a situation 
set up by a boy-girl encounter," 
McCabe said. McCabe found a 
surprisingly large number of stu­
dents who never visit the people in 
town. 
''There is another side to the 
program which students and staff 
members aren't completely aware 
of. and that is the attitude of the 
couples. Many of them never get 
the chance to sit down and talk with 
a Notre Dame student. They enjoy 
the experience as much as the 
student," she said. 
Although the project might ap­
pear superficial at first glance, 
McGinnis reported that the hall 
governments and the staffs of the 
sponsoring halls believe the pro­
gram deals with two main problems 
faced by students: the prevailing 
patterns of male-female interac-
INTERNATIONAL CAREER? 

A representative will be on the campus 
WEDNESDAY MARCH 3, 1976 
to discuss qualifications for advanced study at 
AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL 
and job opportunities in the field of 
INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT 
Interviews may be scheduled at 
PlACEMENT OFFICE 
AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT Thunderbird Campus Glendale, Arizona 85306 

Now, Continental's United States at 37%off. 
LOS ANGE HOLLYWOO BUR BAN 
LONG BEACH ONTARIO SANTA ANA 

Spring for less by getting your ticket 14 days before SpringVacation. 
You save 37% off the cost of a regular round-trip Coach And with Continental it doesn't take a lot of extra effort ticket. There's no lower fare available. For example, you save to save a lot of money. All you do is make your reservations $60 between Los Angeles and Denver; $105 between Chicago and pay for your ticket at least 14 days before your flight. and Los Angeles; and $66 between Houston and Miami. You must stay at least 7 days and no more than 30 days~ 
With our new lower fares, you still get many of the extras That's all there is to it. 
that Continental is famous for. To take off37% this Spring Vacation, call your travel agent, On most ofour wide-bodied domestic DC-H)'s you'll enjoy our partner in getting things done, or Continental Airlines. free filmed entertainment, free stereo, the only Coach Pub in 'Conrinental will provide inform~tion regarding specific !lights and number 
the Sky at no extra cost, and optional food service. · ofseats available. Our 37% discount applies throughout the year. excluding the penod from june I. 1976 to September IS. 1976 when a 2H% discount
On our spacious 727's you get overhead storage, fold down 
applies. Children's fare applies ages 2-11. Coach Pub is not available on middle seats when unoccupied, and free stereo. Hawaii· through service. Fares subject to change without notice. 
The program formerly known as the Hospitality and Intimacy exper­iment, received a favorable rec­commendation from the COUL report. Members: of the group will meet tonight in Farley Hall for the third in a five-program series from Feb. 10 through March 2. 
The student-oriented program is named "Making It Without the Games." 
Brother Mike McGinnis, assis­tant rector of Grace hall, states that the program presents an opportun­ity to meet people outside of the dating or party situation; in other words. in situations "without the games. r 
Organized in small groups of 12 students and one couple from the area. the entire program now numbers 86 students from Grace, Farley and Breen-Phillips halls and 6 couples from South Bend. They meet in residence halls and in the homes of the couples. 
In the May 1975 COUL report, the group. then known as the Hospitality and Intimacy Experi­ment. received favorable recom­

tion, and the relative isolation of nued. "We had no family sur­campus and dorm life. rounding us. So my husband and I 
"This isolation and loneliness is find our extended family is within felt by many young married coup­the ND community." les in the South Bend area," Joan and Jim Stark, another remarked Mollie Crome. "When participating couple, share much 
we moved here a few years ago, I the same experience. 
thought Notre Dame was the real Ken Grebliunas, a junior from center of the town, the heart of Evergreen Park, Illinois, hosted the everything. The one way we as a first meeting in his room at Grace 
family could share the ND student hall. As a second year member, life was through the hospitality Grebliunas thinks this year's pro­gram is much less formal: "We
group. 

"We were lonely," she conti-really have a rap session going 
~~~~~~~~~~.-. ...... ~ ..... .._,.....,.~~ 
tt'RMANDO IS NOW LOCATED NEAR CAMPUSf tTO GIVE YOU THE CUT OR STYLE YOU WANTi 
I 
c'fww.nJo'j_ 3a7.bn & c;}-fai7. ~t:i~ S/;,)/2 ,'t 
0PEN SIX DAYS A WEEK 
MC•1'·· i THRU FRIDAY 8 TO 5,30 SATURDAY tl TO 4 
t PE:RSONALIZED SERVICE t 
'ARMAND() FEMIA 1437 N IRONWOOD DR t ' PHONE 277·06 1 5 SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 
' FOR APPT. f 
now. Getting into a family situa­tion where you have room to stretch out and play with the kids makes it easier to talk than in the halls on ~ampus or being cramped in one of our small rooms." 
"Sharing an evening with a young married couple with young children who are not that much older than you is a rewarding experience," concluded Grebliunas. 
Marie Daugherty, a junior living in Farley, found new friends and new ideas. "If the program were 
THE CRUCIBLE
~NO 

Arthur Miller's po-.verful dra­
rrE examining events sur­
rounding the Salem witch
SMC 

hunts.
T H t_ ~~ Tf~ r~ 

Feb. 27, 28, Mar. 4, 5, 6 All Seats $2.00 
at 8:00 P.M.

(Std-Fac. $1.50) Alone: 284-4176 O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
(St. Mary's) 

CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 
The Proud Bird with the Golden Tail. 

more structured, I think you would lose the atmosphere it needs in order to succeed --the casual homelike spontaneity among varied age groups. Tom and Diane Majors shared their home with us last week," Daugherty continued. "I like to see how a young family 
decorates the house, plans a dinner 
and how they deal with young 
children." 

Unlike the classroom, she thinks the exchange is probably more honest. 
_T_u_es_d_a...:._y_:_,_F_e_b_r_u_a_:ry~24_:,_1_9_7_6____:f~h e 0 bSe rVer 
Film critic evaluates '75 films • 

by Barb Breitenstein Staff Reporter 

"Movies have gotten too effi­cient at getting big audiences," Roger Ebert, Chicago Sun-Times film critic, said in an "informal" lecture last night. "They are making blockbusters and taking the action away from where it belongs in American films." 
Ebert. the first film critic to receive a Pulitzer Prize, spoke before a crowd of about 200 people in the library auditorium on "Ex­tremes in American Films: Jaws and Nashville," using the two film as a "starting point" for his critique of American film of 1975. 
"Nineteen Seventy-five was an indistinguished year for film," Ebert commented. "American movies are afraid to take a chance. Nashville was a movie that touched us, that was ambitious. It was the kind of movie you could be proud of. But Jaws was the movie everyone went to see instead of Nashville," Ebert said. 
The audience's laughter in re­
sponse to Ebert's many witty 
comments and stories drew more 
people into the audience as the talk 
progressed. 
Drawing a contrast between "art movies which enlarge our exper­ience" and "commerical movies which enhance our experience," Ebert commented on the direction of American films as "efficient money-making machines." 
"Nashville was an artistic ex­treme," he explained. "On the other had, Jaws was the mass communal experience of the cen­tury. It was so planned out that by the time the people went into the theatres, they were simply plugs. An art film tries to speak to us mbre personally." 
"It's all based on money rather than art now," Ebert continued, "because it's easier to see. In this country, it's the money and where it comes from that determines what will go before the public." 
Ebert commented on the current trent of "disaster movies," and 

Meeting nixes appeals for rejects from CAP 
with three abstentions. The propo­

(continued from pa~e 1l sal called for a three-member ad 
pointments, tenure and promotion hoc panel of disinterested parties to 
overturned. hear a case referred by a depart-
Burtchacll noted that these sta-mental CAP. 

tistics show that nearly all rccom-Conway said that the proposal 
mendations of the CAP are upheld would be re-considered by the 
by the Administration. He said Faculty Senate and may be return­
that in most cases where the ed to the Academic Council. "I'm 
administration disagreed with the not sure it's a closed issue," he 
CAP it was trying "to raise the said. "I think the Senate may 
standards of the departments." approach it from a different per-
Conway said that any case of an spective." 

unjust decision is significant. Burtchaell noted that the Council 
"I think one case would be passed proposals which retained 

important," Conway said. "I think Administration power and rejected 
it's a question of any case that those which took away such discre­
might have been an injustice is tion. 
important." In other action the Council 
The revisions passed by the formed a search committee to 

Council would also require the replace Emil T. Hofman as dean of 
president or provost to convey to a the Freshman Year. It consists of 
CAP through the college dean live elected faculty members and 
reasons for disagreement with a one student Council member. 
recommendation of the CAP. The Council also heard the 
The proposal for an appeals annual report of the provost on 

procedure when CAP recommenda-academic affairs. The report will 
tions disagree with the provost or be published in a future issue of 
president was defeated I5 to 35, Notre Dame Report. 
r-------~~-------, 
t . ~ t 
t THE FJGWTIN(}IRISH t t t t t 
t ' 
t ' 
t ' t 
t ' t 't 
t ' t 
t ' t 
t t 
't t 
t t 
t • 
' 

t .. t
! SUNDAY EVENING, MARCH 7-7:30PM ! '· MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ' 
f 211 North Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana 46601 f 
Tickets: $5.50-$4.50-$3.50 at the Auditorium Box Office. &

t Mail orders must enclose a self addressed, stamped envelope. f 
& GROUP DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE t 
f Call (219) 232-6954 for Information. _. 
their inevitable sequels, suggest­ing a sequel to Airport--Carport, a low budget movie about a minibus caught on a downramp." 
"Jaws was great trash and Nashville was great art,'' Ebert concluded, "and Americans have cast their vote. It was a very bad year for movies and yet more people went to see more movies in 1975 than in any year since TV was popularized. And what finally got them out of the house was trash." 
In a question and answer period which followed the lecture, Ebert commented on the role of the film critic, saying that critics do not want to influence people as much as "have a voice in the dialogue." "They want movies to get the audience they deserve." he said. 
Ebert also expanded on the lack of females in the movie-making business. "I don't know why we don't see better roles for women," he said. "The studios are all run by men and they just won't risk the money.'' 
THE 

RESUME PLACE 
25 X 11 
R/\C BOND 
Only $2.55 
insty-prints 
203 N. MAIN ) 
.<!

SO.BEND, IND 
-;.. • 
v
!. 

,, 289-6977 \.; ) . oil 
Film critic Roger Ebert. (Photo by Mike Kron) 
,.................................................,.
1 Management-oriented I .. ~ Sales Trainees I
I ~ 
~ :&I Fanning Chevrolet, located in Aurora, illinois (soon to ~ ! be the second largest city in the state of illinois), will be on ~ ~ campus Tuesday, March 9, 1976 to recruit management-on-~ ~ ented sales trainees who would be interested in a career ~! opportunity with outstanding growth potential in the retail ~ ~ automobile business. We are interested in young, :illl ~ aggressive sales personnel who will have the knowledge and ~! ability to grow with the future plans of the company, who will ~ ~ be able to move on into management positions and become ~ ~ leaders of men. ~ ~ The personnel we are seeking should have the desire for an ! ~ ambitious career which would lead them to dealership ~ ~ management-ownership. · ~ 
~~~...................................................1 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED  
Desperately need 1 GA ticket. Call Stacy 6893.  Marquette  
Need GA Marquette tix.  Dan 3312.  

Need 2 GA Marquette tickets. Call John 1818. 
Need Marquette tix. Call Brian 1606 
Need 2 Marquette tix, please call Terri at 287 ·6638. 
Need GA and student tickets for Marquette badly. Please call Pat at 1654. 
Need despe.rately as many Mar. quette tix as possible. Call Peggy 6896. 
Need 2 or 4 Marquette tickets. Call Mike or Ann at 272-5884 after 7 P.M. 
Desperately need GA Marquette tickets. Call Tom at 7781. 
Need Marquette tickets. Call Joe at 287-5113. 
Need many Western Mich tix !! Call 233-9841 after 10 P.M. 
Need Western Mich tix, call Joan at 1327. 
Must have 3 Marquette tix, call John 1462. 
4 girls need rides to Houston, San Antonio, or anywhere south of there for spring break. Will share driving, gas. Call Debbie at 6798. 
Need up to 4 Marquette tix, student or GA, will pay any price. Call Pete at 234-6352. 
Need 5 Marquette tickets. Call Eileen or Marion, 6798. 
Need 2 Marquette tix, student or GA. Name price, Jim 3252. 
Riders to and from Milwaukee wanted this weekend. Bob 3372. 
NOTICES 

IBM Selectric II typing. Manuscript dissertation. Experienced, 289-5193 
The American Future: A Radical Perspective. Today-Lester Thurow. 4:30P.M. Library Auditorium, "In· come Inequality: Causes and Cures' T-shirts, T-shirts, T-shirts for clubs. and dorms. Call Dave at 277-0948. 
SMC-fND Summer Programs: Lon. don (May 18· June 18 ); Rome (June 
17. July 16), college credit available. 
For information, call Prof. A. R. Black, 284.4938 (Off.) or 272·3276 (home). 
Rich Man Poor Man now at Pandora Books. 937 So. Bend Ave., 10·7 daily. 
Accurate, fast typing, Mrs. Donoho, 232-0746. 
ND.SMC Council for the Retarded Dance, Wednesday 7:30 to 10:00. Questions-Tom Harbin 287-6673, Kathy McGlynn 288-4315. 
FOR SALE 

1967 Olds Delta 88, aged well, best offer. 289-8032. Keep trying. 
1968 Dodge Charger 318, automatic, power steering, great condition, snow tires and mag wheels included $600. Call 272·1710 or 272·4777 after 5:30 P.M. 
Disneyland Murals from Mardi Gras for sale. Call 1348. 
Dual 1218 complete with AT 13ea cartridge, Steve 1024. 
Must sell orange 1973 Super Beetle, 32,000 miles. AM-FM, defogger, excellent tires and interior, recent tune. up, phone or leave message for Benj, 234-2101 ext. 50 9A.M.·6P.M. 289-8111 9P.M.-12A.M. asking $2150 or best offer. 
FOR RENT 

4, 5, 6 bedroom houses, completely furnished, extremely nice, real close to campus. September 1976, 9 month lease. 233·2613 or 232-7263. 
Summer houses and rooms for rent, real close· to campus, furnished . Ridiculously reasonable. 233·2613 or 232-7263. 
Furnished houses, two to seven bedroom, available for September or June. Call 234-9364. 
Next school year, 9 month lease. Two furnished houses, 4 bedroom and 5 bedroom near ND. Call 234-2626. 
2 rooms ~or rent, $40. Call233·1329. 
PERSONALS 
To Dorothy: Don't feel rejected, you have me. The Wizard. 
To Secret worshipper: Perhaps 1 can be matchmaker between you and D.S. Bobo. Angolan .Warmonger 
Secret Admirer: How nice it would be to thank you in person. Nancy 
ILLINOISANS: CAN YOU SPARE A WEEK·END TO HELP IN GOV­ERNOR WALKER'S CAMPAIGN FOR REELECTION? TRANSPORT· ATION, LODGING, AND MEALS PROVIDED. FOR DETAILS CALL THIS WEEK CATHY 284-4103. 
G.R. Nice teeth!! I love your face anyway. Keep on skiing! FA 
About that problem: have you thought that maybe alcohol IS the problem? Call Peggy Barnum 8809, alcohol c.ounselor, Universily Infirm ary. 
Pat, See you at the prayer meeting in Rathskeller at 7:30 tonight. 
Girls.. Sis is the Best! Call 3315. 
To the Indians: . Remember what General Custer said when he saw all those Sioux. I don't know where I'm going, but I'm going nowhere in a hurry too. The Arrow 
Gruff ian, It was a marvelous night tor a moondance and tor the music too. Thanks. T.V. 
Lfrom H20 BURY missed you Friday Catch you today? Hands. 
Countess, Forget Casey, I can do 50 bar presses! Not bad for a rat. 
Dear Safe Date, Thanks for a great time. See you at the salad bar sometime soon. 
___...:._ ___________ 
Coming to the A. C. C. soon, Foghat, Queen, Kiss, Montrose. Slade, Ted Nugent and Anita Bryant. Get your tickets today!! 

~ ---~---~---­
the observer Tuesday, February 24, 1976
8 

• 45th Bengal Bouts kick off tonight 
One of the most talented fields evet highlights annual spectacle; 26 fights tonight 
bJ Rich Odioso ISS-pound weight class. In addi­his debut tonight in the 165 division tion to Harbert there are a total of when Randy Payne takes on ex-I­five veterans, four seniors and rish wrestler Pat Concannon. 
Riddle: What has more hooks three defending champions. Veteran John Ricotta is the man to 
than a Maine fishing village. more Harbert who has scored three watch in the division. He takes on 
crosses than St. Peter's Square on knockouts in five previous Bengal sophomore Brian Temme. 
Easter Sunday and more punches matches opens up his defense There are three bouts slated for than Notre Dame !D's on steak against Kevin Murphy, a junior the 175-pound class with the Ruetty night? Answer: the 45th Annual from Chicago. Of the other Ruettiger-Thunder Thornton Bengal Bouts' opening night pro­defending champions, Mike Al­match-up figuring to capture most gram tonight which features 26 bers. a winner at 145 last year, of the attention. The popular match-ups. Action gets underway battles junior Mike Orlando. from Ruettiger will have his mettle at 8 in the ACC Main Arena with all Fort Lauderdale and Matt McGrath tested by the hard-hitting veteran proceeds going to the Bangladesh who won at ISO takes on Marty Thornton. Two more veterans, mi~sions. Fahev. Mike Shaw, whose fine Tom Plouff and Gus Cifelli. go at it 
The hard, clean and spirited efforts in three previous Bengals in another 175 bout. l·ompetition figures to be just the have yet to net him a title, starts his The 125, 145 and ISO weight tonic for those fight fans jaded by quest to rectify that against Joe classes are mostly composed of Friday's Ali-Cooprilan farce. One Cooler, who fought well as a newcomers but no doubt a number of the more refreshing aspects of freshman last Y!!ar. of Bengal stars of tomorrow will the Bcngals is the enthusiasm of Two other returni!lg titlists are in emerge from these divisions. the fighters in comparison to their the 135 division. Dave Reyna and professional counterparts. Dave Tezza were both winners a 
TONIGHT'S CARD: 125--Tom Another advantage to the Ben­year ago. Tezza will fight tonight 
Thanes vs. Terry Philban; gals over pro boxing is the wide against Pat DeMay. 
.. 
135--Bob Speer vs. Brian Dia­'ariel\' of ~tvlcs from science to The 160 class should also be mond. Pat DeMay vs. Dave Tezza; ~lugging that arc sure to be competitive with veterans Mike 145--Mike Mullin vs. Greg di~plavcd from fight to fight. Thomas, John Tartaglione and Bachman, John Talbot vs. Pat Mo~t of the football players will Kevin Smith competing. Thomas O'Connell. Joe Ferrara vs. Mi~e not sec action tonight but four of and Tartaglione square off in one of 
Murphy, Bob Jeanguenat vs. Jack the ~ix returning champions put the bouts tonight. Also in the D'Aurora; rhcir crmms on the line including division is football player Kerry 150--Jim Quinn vs. George Nal­two-time titleholder Phil Harbert. Moriarity who meets Peter Can­lcv. Bob Walls vs. Pat Landfried, Harbert will go into action in the non. Bill Dwver vs. Rick Bis, Dan Bout'> hc~t-balanccd di,·ision the A not her football plaver makes Lackner ~s. Kevin Ricotta; 155--Phil Harbert vs. Kevin Murphy. John Albers vs. Mike Orlando. Mike Shaw vs. Joe Cool­cr. Matt McGrath vs. Marty Fahey; 150--Tom Brennan vs. Chris 
McCusker. Dave Saunders vs. Kevin Smith. Pete Cannon vs. Kerry Moriarity, Mike Thomas vs. John Tartaglione; 
165--Randy Payne vs. Pat Con­cannon. Matt Ratterman vs. Mike 
*Observer 

Corcoran. Tom Kelly vs. Jim Harig, Brian Temme vs. John Ricotta; 
175--Casey Land vs. Chip Brink, John Thornton vs. Ruetty Ruet­tiger. Gus Cifelli vs. Tom Plouff. 
Sports 



.. 
Varsity Sports Summary 
Fencers extend streak 
bJ Paul Stevenson 
The Notre Dame fencing team, the 
number one rated team in the 
countrv. returned from Ohio St. 
thi~ ~·cckcnd after chalking up 
their sixteenth and seventeenth 
wins of the season. 
In their tirst contest, Notre Dame 
downed Ohio St. 18-9. The Irish 
fencers won foil and sabre 7-2, 
while bowing to their hosts S-4 in 
epee. 
After defeating Ohio St., the 
Irish then out-dualed Michigan St. 
21-6. winning sabre (8-1). foil (7-2) 
and epee (6-3). 
Coach Mike DeCicco was ex­tremely happy with his team's performance. "Ohio St. has been a snake pit in recent years for us," DeCicco remarked. "I can recall twice in the last five years whep they've .. spoiled our undefeated season. 
Individual stand-outs were Mike McCahcy and Pat Gerard who were both 4-0 for the weekend with the foil, Sam Ditiglio and Mike Sullivan who were S-0 with the sabre, and Tim Glass who was 4-0 with the epee. Sullivan's five wins over the weekend upped his season's record to 38-1. as he continues to 'lead the unbeaten Irish. 
DeCicco believes his team is fencing exceptionally well. "We have leadership and depth in every position." he stated, "To my knowledge of Notre Dame fencers, which dates back to 1945, we have never had nine starters that were so productive and consistent." 
The Irish are now 17-0 and have accumulated 35 straight victories. With just over one month until the NCAA tournament. DeCicco is confident in his team's ability to cap1 urc their tirst undefeated sea­son since 1967. 

This weekend the Irish take on 
the University of Wisconsin and the 
University of Illinois at home. 
The matches will 
be held in the auxiliary gym of the 
ACC beginning at 9 a,m. The 
contest is open to the public free of 
charge. 

Swimmers drop 2 
Notre Dame's varsity swimmers 
found the going tough this week­
end as they dropped two meets to 
Illinois State and Purdue by scores 
of 70-43 and 72-51, respectivey. 
The tankers will close out their dual 
meet season at the Rockne Memor­
ial on Friday when they host 
Bradley at 7:00p.m. 

On Friday the Irish .received fine 
performances from Bob Ebel and 
Mark Foster in the diving as well as 
a first place in the SO-yard free­
style. 

·Ed Fitzsimmons continued his 
fine swimming as he captured two 
first in another losing effort, Sat­
urday, this time adding the tOO­
yard freestyle to his list of firsts. 
Freshman Paul Hesse also starred 
as he won the 200-yard breast­
stroke with a time of 2:24.0. 

Friday's meet will begin at 7:00 
p.m. with admission free and open to the public. 
Wrestlers bow 

The Notre Dame matmen of Coach Ray Sepeta closed their dual meet season last week with a disappointing 24-11 defeat at the hands of reigning National Catholic Champion John Carroll University. The loss dropped the Irish,' s record to a dismal 5-16. the ,gteatest 
number of dual meet defeats in 
Irish wrestling history. 
But, with a strong >howing in 
the National Catholic Champion­
ships three weeks ago. several Irish 
wrestlers arc looking toward the 
upcoming regionals with confiden­
ce. NCAA qualifier of a year ago, 
Pat McKillcn. leads the Notre 
Dame contingent to Cleveland 
State for the regionals to be held 
Friday, February 27th. McKillen 
carries a 16-3-2 slate with him to 
the tournament. 
Bob Golic, National Catholic 
Champ at heavyweight, will take a 
12-0-1 to the regionals in his quest 
to make it to the Nationals in his 
first try. 
After the regionals at Cleveland 
State, there will be a two-week rest 
for the qualifiers, as the Nationals, 
held at the University of Arizona 
will begin March I ith and last 
through to the 13th. 
Tracksters 12th 
The Notre Dame track team 
placed 12th out of a field of 18 of 
the strongest teams in the country in tll<" Central Collegiate Confer­ence Championships held at East­ern Michigan this past weekend. ·Pre: meet favorite Michigan took team honors followed bv Penn 
State in second place. ­
For the second week in a row, an· outstanding performance from freshman ru··ncr Jay Miranda highlighted the showing by Irish thinclads. Miranda covered the 1,000 yard run in a time of 2:11.3 to finish third behind winner Andy Johnson of Michigan who estab­lished a meet record of 2:08.5 in the process. Other notable performan­ces for the Irish were turned in by Jim O'Brien who placed sixthin the 600 in a time of I: 12.9 while Bill Allmendinger ran the 880 in 1:54.9 to come in fifth. 
The Interhall Basketball regular season comes to an end this week with many teams jockeying for a playoff spot in Division I and Division II play. 
DIVISION I 
Fisher I defeated Howard I 66-57 
to extend their undefeated streak to 
seven games and clinch a playoff 
spot in League I. Tim Spangler. 
Luther Bradley and Jerome heav­
ens scored 17. 14 and 14 points 
respectively to lead the way for 
Fisher. Bill Guappone poured in 17 
points for the losers. 
Morrissey I clinched their playoff 
spot by downing Grace I. That 
upped their record to 7 -I giving 
them sole possession of second 
place one half a game behind the 
league leader. Dillon II owns the 
third playoff spot. They remained 
6-2 on the season as they didn't see 
action this week. Alumni I, with a 
5-3 record, is in the best shape of 
the remaining teams that ate 
competing for the fourth playoff 
spot. A win over Holy Cross this 
week will sew it up for them. 
Off-Campus III continued to 
dominate League II as they turned 
back Zahm 163-54. O.C., III held a 
slim 35-33 halftime lead but blew it 
open in the third quarter. Team 
high scorer, Tom Monaghan, led 
the way with 21 points a piece. 
Mark Meyer took game scoring 
honors with 23 points in a losing 
cause. O.C., III is now 8-0 and is 
the only team in League II that has 
clinched a playoff spot. 
Keenan I. St. Ed· s I and Grace II 
are all 6-2 and arc vying for the 
three reamining playoff spots. 
Keenan I romped over Flanner II 
62-31 behind a stellar performance 
from Jay Ball (23 points). St. Ed's I 
also won easily over Pangborn I by 
a score of 48-33. Dave Schlichting 
and John Dziminski led the way 
with 17 and 14 points respectively. Grace II stayed at the top by trouncing Morrissey II by a score of 82-60. Randy Harrison played brilliantly, scoring 25 points, while 
Jim Weiler scored 20 points in a 
losing •cause. Dillon II had to hold 
off a late fourth quarter surge by 
Stanford I to hold onto their 46-45 
win. Keenan I and St. Ed's I meet 
in an all important game this week. 
Flanner Ill made it eight in a row 
by trouncing Off-Campus IV by a 
score of 52-41. This earned them 
the first playoff spot in League III. 
Steve Dover scored 17 points and 
Mike Schuff added 14 points for the 
winners. The loss for O.C. IV 
virtually eliminates their chance for 
a playoff spot. 

Dillon II scored the only major upset of the week by rolling over previously unbeaten Cavanaugh I. Ed Condon led the way with 18 points while Pat Kennedy took game honors with 23 points for Cavanaugh I. Both teams now own a playoff spot. Sorin I must defeat Dillon Ill this week to take the remaining spot. Otherwise off­Campus VI and Grace III have the outisde shot. 
DIVISION II 

There were no games played in League IV this week. Alumni II (9-0) owns the first playoff spot. Off-Campus VI and Flanner IV are both 7-2 and claim the second and third spots. Keenan III is one game back at·6-3 and is presently in the best shape for the remaining _playoff spot. but they must go up against Flanncr \V this week. This gives Sorin I an outside shot at the playoff birth. 
Cavanaugh I and Pangborn II both remained tied for tirst place in League V with 8-1 records as neither team saw action this week. They're both assured of a playoff spot. Grace V is 7-2 and a game ahead of the rest of the team in League V. but they must face Cavanaugh I later this week. Off-Campus VII and Stanford III are both 6-3 and are competing for the last playoff birth. Stanford will determine its own fate when they go up against Flanner V while O.C. VII will sti back and wait for the results. 
a_ ----­



